.------~-----------------------------------------~----------------------------~ 
by 
Cliff A.n n~"~'~!t~o~.I'!'"~~P.P.!~t;~o~lnd~•~~h~T~!~J~..,:~,:
The decision will probably be ·nee a financially troubled $150,000 for the new ten thous-specifies the cntena for court ld b t Y 'd 
no if the South Bend Common Council votes Monday on the proposal to annex the Univeristy complex of Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross Junior 
C II 
o ege.Notre Dame administrators 
t·ng k f th

ac 1 as spo esmen or e three schools are adamantly op­
t. d

posed to the annexa 1011 an intend to pursue the matter into court if the Council vote is unfavorable. However, it appears that the Common Council will 
not approve the annexation and univeristy officials are ouiPtlv confident. 
F "d ' 
An article in last n ay s
.d h t f

South Bend Tribune sa1 t a o the nine Council members, four
" h

are "flatly against t e annexa­
" t 1 " ·th

tion, three appear o ean WI these four, and on1y two have pubicly supported the measure. 
·d

Notre Dame hopes to avo1 a court fight because of the 
· h ld
bl.

nation-wide pu tctty t at wou result and the consequent Iuum they feel would be done to both the university and the city· 
Sl
South Bend first somewhat ag­gressively broached the idea of annexing Notre Dame. It was thov.ght that the resultant in­crease of citizens could mean 
· ·t 
mo~e momes on a PIer dcatp!tabasis from the federa an s a e governments. The financial plight of South 
d 1 t · 
Bend was accelerate as year 
when the 1970 census revealed 
that the city had decreased in 
population over the last decade 
wh1'ch would mean a loss of 
$!50 000 in badly needed funds. ' 
· · 
Since that fact became 
known, the pressure and drive to 
annex Notre Dame has visibly 
increased. 
University officials are quick 
to point out, however, that actu­
a1ly South Bend would lose 
money if it annexed Notre Dame 
due to the necessity of paying 
for the police and fire protec­
tion, garbage disposal, and road­
way maintenance that Notre 
Dame now pays. 
South Bend would receive a 
Senator George McGovern tells a crowded Washington press conference that President Nixon's use of U.S. air support of localized Carmodian army operations violated the "spirit and letter" of a congressional ban on military intervention in Cambodia. 
last week released a consultant's mittee." report which recommends that Corollary recommendations. St. Mary's College "join the Uni-of the report included the fol­versity of Notre Dame as a sepa-lowing: rate and distinctive entity opera--Appointment of a coordi­ting within the larger University nator to implement the framework." increased cooperation of both 
The I 0,500.! word. report writ-institutions. 
ten by Dr. Rose may P~rk . protessor of education at the University of California in Los Angeles, and Dr. Lewis B. Mayhew, professor of education at Stanford University, recom­mends that St. Mary's adopt the official name of "Saint Mary's College in the University of Notre Dame" and concentrate on an educational program pri­mary for women. 
''Eventually," the authors note, "the two corporate entities of St. Mary's College and the Univeristy of Ntore Dame might merge" by obtaining a new state charter adn creating a common governing body. "For the imme­diate future, however," the re­port stressed, "the two institu­tions can function cooperatively while still retaining separate cor­porate identity and the separate 
-Creation of joint member­ships on the boards of trustees of the two schools and much closer cooperation between the two governing bodies in aca­demic and financial policy-rna­king. 
-Merger of the registrar's office, admissions staffs, psycho­logical services and counseling activities and security forces of the two institutions. 
The report said that "as a 
general rule, departments from 
the two· institutions should 
merge" but noted that some 
"because of personnel or pecu­
liar circumstances will not move 
to the unified organizaiton im­
mediately." The authors el!lpha­
sized that "specific provisions 
for safeguarding rights of faculty 
members" should be insured 
. f 1 h h 
a 11 $322,000 that Notre Dame pays ann~ally fo~ these services. In­cludmg services at the other two schools, the cost to South Bend ld b t d h If t" 
and. citizens, ar ess t t e 
wou eh wo an ad a Imes greater t an expecte revenue. 
M All ·h 'd th h
ayor en as sat oug that the city does not intend to 
·d 1· d f'

prov1 e po tee an rre protec­it on beyond what-it is now. Last year the city responded to 44 campus alarms and 25 campus requests for ambulance service at 
taxpayer expense. This was done in a supportive role at the re­quest of Notre Dame. Allen's current stand of course will nul-Jify the city expenses incurred in annexation. Notre Dame officials are 
slightly incredulous that the city does not apparently intend to provide these services as it does 
to all the other areas of the citv. 
Publicity has stressed that the 
city must provide these services,
· 
but the question remains un: resolved. Notre Dame has made men-
Narcotic raid nets 14 4 N D students arrested ' 
by Don Ruane 

Four Notre Dame students were among 12 adults and 2 juveniles arrested on Dec~rnber 17 for narcotic offenses during a city and county wide series of raids led by South Bend Detec­tive Sergeants Richard Thomas and Edward Wawryzyniak. 
The students were John T. Brennan, 20, a senior from Huntington, Ind.; Mark Han­nahan, 20, a senior from Spring­
N~ !?,-.~tJMS. i~~.?.J~!E~.~o~o~ingsm~.~~t~t~,~~' 
academic area. 

Academic degrees would be awarded by the institutions in which students matriculate. Those enrolled in St. Mary's, for example, would receive a degree in the name of "St. Mary· Col­lege in the Univeristy of Notre 
(Continued on page 2) 

Bolton for mayor 
Dr. Richard T. Bohan, pro­fessor of political science at St. Mary's, will open his cam­paign for the mayorality of South Bend tonight at the Faculty Club at 7:30 p.m. Residents of South Bend and ND-SMC students are wei­come. 
Tickets will be available at the door: $3.00 per person, $5.00 per couple; student rate, $1.50 per person, $2.50 per couple. 
There will be free refresh­ments. 
d tions The an 
app~ove . annexa · ­nexi~g cit~ TI_IUSt have a plan to ~urmsh, wit~m thre_e years, the an~exed terntory wtth the same s~nvce~ that other parts of the 
city enJOY. South Bend does not
have such a plan and this point . h b . .f. ' t . .t. mtg t e s1gm tcan m any 11 tga­
. hoWn.h"l . d" t f' . 
1 e an tmme 1a e manc1a1 
. . . f S th cnsts, IS at the center ~ ~u , Be_nd s concern, ~he um~ersJt~ s pnmary concern IS also fmanctal but of a longer term and of a 
different nature. , At the core of Notre Dame s 
· · th · 
resistance to annexatwn Is err
1 f h th · 1 

very rea ear t at e mvu nera­
b'l. f h · t t t t
I 1ty o t eu ax exemp s a us 
· d d d d 
may be threatene an ero e 
t h 1 1 th t th · · 
o sue a eve a . e umverst­
t ld b d d
Y wou e oome · 

· · ff" · 1 f f 1
Umvers1ty o !Cia s are ear u that annexation would result 
· d

after a while in mcrease pres­
· d ·h" h ·t 
sure on the City, un er w Jc 1
h · · 
might yield, to tax t e umversity
T d
for services provided. he e­mise of the university is then a certainty they say. 
wou e necessary o proVl e
the needed university services, that is if the city decides to provide them or is forced to provide them, and this burden might lead the city to tax the 
.universJty. . 

Father Hesburgh has satd that 
. . . .

"the day pnvate mshtuhons are taxed private education ends 
.' .

and 1t becomes public educa­tion." He also warned that the pow­er to tax is the power to destroy. , d ·
In a "white paper issue m the form of a booklet, the uni­.
versity cites the expedences of Yale and Pittsburgh as leading cases of "grievous money strains" between town and gown. As with these and other private universities, the paper says "the main problem stems 
from the fact that they are 
legally 'Within the city, and the city's financial plight mandates a search for more revenue, even from historically tax exempt in­
stitutions." 
(Continued on page 8) 

Wednesday, January 20, 1971 
field, Ohio; Donald D. Badger, 20, a senior from Weehawken, 
N.J. and Donald V. Holbert, 20, a junior from Kinderhook, N.Y. 
Thirty police officers, both plain clothed and uniformed, participated in the raids which began at 5:30p.m. and finished with the last arrest coming at I 0 
p.m. The raids climaxed three months of undercover investiga­tion, two thirds of which was carried out by a city police officer who recently gra.duated from Indiana University with a degree in police administration, the detectives said. 
Two of the Notre Dame stu­dents were arrested on campus, according to police. Badger, who lives at 820 Notre Dame Ave., Apt.4A, was arrested in the North Dining Hall by detectives. Holbert, a resident of Zahm Hall, was summoned to the security office adjoining the fire station in a pre-arranged plan with Security Director Arthur Pears. While Holbert was in the office, the police were notified and Sgt. Thomas made the arrest. Brennan was arrested in his home at I 018 E. Madison Street as was Hannahan who rooms with Badger. 
Arrest warrants were issued for fourteen persons including nine charging the sale of hard drugs. Police found quantities of LSD, mescaline, barbituates, numerous unidentified pills and capsules and marijuana. They seized $4,000 worth of mari­juana in the home of a Washing­ton High School student. Eight search warrants were also ordered before the raids. 
1m: South Bend police claim­ed that they seized LSD, seconal (a barbituate), and mescaline in envelopes from the Notre Dame dispensary in the apartment oc­cupied by Badger and Hannahan. The pair reportedlydenied that the drugs seized were narcotics. A University spokesman said later that no hard drugs are dispensed by the facility. 
Brennan was released on $3,000 bond after being charged with the sale and possession of dangerous drugs. He allegedly sold seven tablets of LSD to an undercover agent for twenty dollars on Nov. 7. 
Holbert and Hannahan were 
also charged with selling LSD in 
November but in smaller quanti­
ties. They were released on 
$1 ,000 bail. Badger, ~so re­
leased after posting $1 ,000 bail, 
was charged with the sale and 
possession of dangerous drugs, 
specifically LSD. 

Badger pleaded guilty to the charge in City Court on Friday, December 18 but later withdrew the plea. He is slated to appear in court Wednesday, January 27. Han nahan and Holbert are scheduled to appear next Tues­day, January 26. No date has 
been set for B"i-ennar{'s triaL He will go betore the Supenor Court of St. Joseph County while the other three will appear in City Court. The raid was the second by South Bend Detectives in four months. They were assisted by two county officers. 
tfODA Y'S WEATHER: lncreas­·ng darkness during late evening !hours with chance of increasing prightness during early after­~IOon. Chance of snow and con­tinued cold -excellent. Chance of worse weather -very good. 
-
~----~----~ 
We<}nesday, January 20, 1971 
Page 2 



Co-education proposed for SMC 
by Ann Therese Darin 
Student leaders at St. Mary's reached a surprise consensus 
o p1mon last night on the newly-released Park-Mayhew· Report concerning the feasibility of coed-ucation at Notre Dame and St. MaRary's. 
Kepler Motor Sales 
'62 Cadillac 4 dr. HT $495 '63 Chevy II 6 cy. auto. $595 '63 Impala 4 dr. power $495 '59 Olds 4 dr. power $295 '65 Rambler conv. 6 cy. auto. 
$495 
All cars sold with lifetime warrent...Top prices paid for used cars 
2306 Western Ave. Phone -288-3250 

"We don't want St. Mary's to remain as a woman's college in Notre Dame," said Karen Schulz, academic affairs commissioner. 
The group foresees St. Mary's as a humanistically-oriented co­ed liberal arts college in Notre Dame similar to that proposed by Fr. Raymond Runde, St. Mary's education professor. 
Notre Dame's liberal arts col­lege, on ·.llae other hand, al­though co-ed, would appeal to graduate-school oriented stu­dents. 
The significance of the con­sensus opinion. according to Sr. 
M. Immaculata dean of stu­dents, is that the students were the first group that Sister en­countered which saw no alterna­tive to accepting the Parks-May­hew proposal. 
Other campus interest groups that Sister interviewed indicated that St. Mary's need not accent 
the report, but could isntead 
function as a single entity. 
"Apparently Fr. Hesburgh, Sr. 
Alma, and the Boards of Trus­
tees don't read the report as we 
do," Sister Immaculata stated. 
(Fr. Hesburgh and Sr. Alma 
have refused to comment on the 
report.) · 

Although the students were 
supposed to discuss the social 
implications of the report in 
preparation for a meeting of the 
joint ND-SMC coordinating 
committee February 13, they decided it was futile to discuss items sttch as co-ed housing. They believe more basic academ­ic questions needed tdp priority. 
"Everything boils down to ac­ademics," commented Mary Ber­nath. "Fundamentally girls come here for an education." 
In light of this consideration the group, which included repre­sentatives of student govern­ment, campus media, and the hall directors, placement, and counselling offices, adjourned until next Monday at 8:30 p.m. when they will meet with the Student Affairs Committee. 
Sr. Immaculata outlined the procedure with which the report will be handled. The coordinat­ing committee, now named the task force, met during Christmas 
vacation to go through the re­port and, subsequently, section it to be studied by the individual departments. 
Committees, such as the one 



Will it fit youP 


Find out if the Stone & Webster 
corporate hard hat is for you-and vice versa. 
As a Stone & Webster construction engi­neer, you'll become directly involved with nuclear, steam and hydroelectric power gen­eration, power transmission systems and de­sign and construction of process plants for chemicals, petrochemicals and petroleum. 
As part of your engineer-in-training ac­tivities, you'll spend 21h years in the field alongside experienced, senior construction engineers. Then you'll devote six months to developing firsthand knowledge of design, scheduling, purchasing and other manage­ment skills in our Boston offices. Stone & Webster offers an excellent employee benefit program including a generous Tuition Assist­ance Plan. 
See how the hat will fit. Register with your Placement Office for a Stone & Webster interview when our representatives visit your campus. 
IF you are more interested in design en­gineering, we have a comprehensive training program for you, too. 
A.sTONE &WEBSTER Engineering Corporation 

last night which considered the socila implications of the report, are supposed to consider the positive, negative, and alterna­tive ideas, to the study, acco~­ding to Dr. Elizabeth Noel, St. Mary's task force chairman. 
Their suggestions will be in­corporated in a report to the joint 14-member coordinating committee, Feb. 13. 
Executive groups will meet March 21 in Florida to decide what to subPJit to the April Board of Trustees meeting. They will make the final decision on the implementations of the plan. 
Mer~er endorsed 
(Continued from page 1) 
Dame," signed by both presi­dents. 
"The union of the two col­leges as envisioned in this docu­ment will be viable only if each campus can create and maintain a distinctive educational mission while at the same time contribu­ting appropriately to the edu­cational mission of the other campus," the report concluded. 

CRYPT 

Now on stock 
George Harrison $7.30 Jesus Christ-Superstar $7.30 Tumbleweed-Elton John· $3.10 Pearl-Janis Joplin $3.60 What About Me-Quicksilver $3.6C Worst-Jefferson Airplane $3.10 Fotheringay $3.10 John Lennon $3.60 2 Years on-Bee Gees $3.10 Fiesta Lounge Hours: 2-5 LaFortune weekdays 


fYiw 
~w 

!Y¥fvn!l fhtti119 

designed by J · Donald Claflin. I Rings start at $29~.[ 1 



DFFANY&CO. 
225 Franklin Street, Boston, Mass. 02107 
CHICAGO
An Equal Opportunity Employer 

715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 Design Copyrighted 1971, T.& Co. 
------~---~~-~~-~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~-~--------~-------' 
Wednesday, January 20, 1971 
Page 3 
Dept. t 0 ,~~ !,re,,~.!:~0~1~ ~~,!~nd 
by Tom Bornholdt 
Notre Dame's Department of Computing Science has been for­mally discontinued by the Uni­versity Academic Council, effec­tive May 31, 1971. 
In explaining the decision, the Academic Council cited the dwindling service function of the two-year old department and the increased capability of the Uni­versity's four colleges to handle such computer training as is nec­essary for the students through other departmental offerings. 
The students now majoirng in computer science will be handled through computer­related courses now taught in other departments. The comput­ing science department had six professors. 
Bill Wilka, Academic Affairs Commissioner and ex-officio member of the Academic Coun­cil felt that the cut of the computing science department was "a sign of a problem that exists. The University is in seri­ous financial trouble -in a tight squeeze." 
Tom Kenny, the student representative to the Academic Council from the College of Science, also felt that the demise of the computing science depart­ment was "fundamentally an economic problem." He quoted Fr. Hesburgh as remarking dur­ing the Academic Council meet­ing, "A question of allocating 
e( · Ire 0 USe 
Four Dillon Hall residents began preparation for semester finals last December amid the charred remains of clothing val­ued at approximately five hun­dred dollars which were destroy­ed in a fire December 10. 
Juniors Ed Birtwell of Glen Ellyn, Ill., Bob Harb of Haver­hill, Maine, Bill Gallagher of Philadelphia, Pa. and Senior Nick Textor of St. Louis and their three room suite (283 Dillon) partially destroyed by water, smoke, and the fire which started when a bag of plastic cotton balls ignited while sitting atop a radiator. 
Gallagher was the only person in the room at the time. He said he smelled something burning as he was typing a paper, grabbed a blanket and began trying to put it out. A student living nearby grabbed a fire extinguisher and rushed to Gallagher's aid. 
Five extinguishers were used before they finally put it out with a fire hose. Gallagher said the fire spread to some clothes and rags also on the radiator and quickly spread to a nearby metal locker. The fire burned through the rear of the locker and de­stroyed suits, slacks and ROTC uniforms hanging inside. 
Gallagher and several neigh­bors had the fire extinguished and were throwing smoldering debris onto the roof outside when the Notre Dame Fire De­partment arrived. The firemen 
were met with cheers and comments such as "Hurry up!" from a crowd of students who were attracted by heavy grey smoke as they returned from their 1 : 15 classes. 
The fire was confined to the bedroom area of the suite. 
priorities." 
Both Kenny and Wilka com-men ted that there was very little discussion at the meeting of the Academic Council. The deans of the four colleges, according to Kenny, agreed that their colleges did not need the computing science department. Both Wilka and Kenny thought that a more detailed discussion of the prob­!em of the priorities involved with the cut of the department would have been more desirable. In another action, the Council discontinued tbe institute status of the Computing Center, which houses Notre Dame's computer. lnstitute status is reserved for ••major organizations not with a colllege and devoted to advanced 


Sophs gain cor privileges; graduate students lose vote 
-A proposal to allow graduate students a voting privilege and the right to allow the sopho­mores parking were the two main topics of discussion at the last Student Council Life meet­ing on December 19. 
Prof. William F. Eagan chair­man of the SLC pointed out at the meeting that the council was and is originally designed for the undergraduates and that the bal­ance among the three groups involved in the SLC, namely the Fauclty, the Administration, and the undergraduates, would be 
upset by the addition of a grad-

D f d d uate school vote. 
Granting the graduate stu­dents voting privileges would al­so mean a restructuring of the duties fo the vice-president of student affairs, Eagan claimed. 
Mr. Phillip Faccenda, vice­-president and General Counsel, research." Notre Dame officials emphasized that the Center will continue to provide services for faculty and administration and that a new computer had been ordered by the Thiversity. 
The Council also: 
-Added two graduate stu­dents as full members of the Graduate Council. 
-Named the associate dean of the Graduate School and the director of the Summer Session to the Graduate Council. 
-Approved a new graduate degree, master of science in en­vironmental engineering, to recognize completion of an exis­itng program of studies for which an M.S. in civil engineer­ing has been awarded. 
said that the SLC effects the Graduate students only in small ways such as the security of the student parking. 
The Lay Board of Trustees turned down the proposal of graduate voting privileges in the SLC at their meeting December 
22. They suggested that the pro­vast work with the graduates to come up with some vehicle for granting them an organization similar to the SLC. The execu­tive committee of the Lay Board will vote on this at their Jan. 22 meeting. 
Parking for on-campus sopho­mores was passed unanimously. However this will not go into effect until September of 1971 and the expansion of the facili­
ties of parking area D-1, to accomodate the extra cars, will not begin until March due to the prohbitive weather. 

SONY STR 6040 AM/FM RECEIVER-WAS $199.95, 
NOW ONLY $150 


The SONY 6040 receivers features a highly sensitive FM tuner, with sensitivity rating 2.6 microvolts and signal to noise ratio a whopping 70db. It's ability to separate stations and reject interference is better than many costly separate tuners. The amplifier delivers 30 watts-RMs watts naturally, good solid audio engineering type watts: the only kind of rating that means anything. 
The SONY 6040 receiver was a good buy at $199.95, but it's a bargain at $150. The supply is limited, so don't delay. 
You can get an excellent stereo system using the SONY STR 6040 for as little as $298 !list price of components separately, $415). 
~307 E. CALVERT PHONE 288-'1681 
"~~I! OPEN 3-B PM MON-TH 1-4:30 PM SUN & FRI 

uc1ngan un 1eva le newproduct: Student-Railpass. 
(Would you believe two whole months of can sleep in a Couchette for only $4.50 a night, and eat in inexpensive cafeteria-type Dining Cars. 
unlimited rail travel throughout thirteen 

If you haven't got two months, or you prefer the 

European countries* for a modest $125?) 

luxury of First Class, there's our regular Eurailpass. The 
Our brand-new Student-Railpass gives you all three week Eurailpass costs $110, one month $140, two that Second Class rail travel on the over 100,000 mile months $200, three months $230. But remember-you railroad systems of Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, can't get Student-Railpass or Eurailpass in Europe. You Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, must buy one before you leave, so see your Travel Agent. Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. You'll discover that Meanwhile, send in the coupon below for your free there's very little second class about Second Class. You Student-Railpass or Eurailpass folder. 
r---------------------------------------------------------1
STUDENT•RAILPASS The way to see Europe without feeling like a tourist. 
*Eurailpass is valid in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland. 
Eurailpass, Box 90, Lindenhurst, New York 11757. 

Please send me your free Eurailpass folder with railroad map. 0 Or your free Student-Railpass folder order form. 0 


Page 4 
Wednesday, January 20, 1971 





THE OBSERVER 


GLEN S. CORSO, Ecltor-in·Ollef JOHN E. KNORR, Executive Edhor BRUCE RIECK, Business Manap NOTRE DAME, INOIMA 

Annexation Is No Solution 
South Bend ISm a bad state; the projected loss of revenue that will accompany its significant drop in population has moved those operating South Bend's municipal government to plow through a number of drastic money-raising schemes. Fecklessly, they have settled on the worst. Annexing the already financially troubled University of Notre Dame without providing basic community services on the gamble that the additional citizens would cause the federal and state governments to recycle lots of money to the city is economically unsound and ethically suspect. 
If the proposal, now before the South Bend Common Council, is passed then the University of Notre Dame will be part of South Bend, just like Leeper Park, or Eddy Street, or Louie's. Naturally, the city, not the University, would be responsible for providing police and fire protection for students; students would be citizens of the city and hence entitled to the protection of the city. The right to police and fire protection is a difficult right to abridge; neither legislation from the Common Council nor guarantees from Mayor Allen can do so. In short, the city would have to provide at least these services for its new "territory." And that means the city would take a financial bath. 
Nor should the move impress those who handout monies from Indianapolis or Washington. That the annexation, if successful, is a contrived attempt to circumvent the governmental allocation patterns is obvious, even. to Federal bureaucrats, particularly in light of Mayor Allen's stated refusal to provide police protection and 
fire  service  to  the newly annexed du lac. So it appears as  though the  maneuver  
would  hardly  be  as  successful in getting  state  and  federal  monies  as  originally  
~~.  .  

Finally, if the proposal is successful; and if the City is forced to provide pohce, fire and road maintenance services for the lhiversity, the temptation for the city to tax the University for services rendered may grow too great for a Common Council of the future to resist. And unless the University has a drastic reversal of her own fortunes, she will not be able to bear such a tax. 
Bad for the ·City bad for the Univeristy; and bad for the relationship between the two, Mayor Allen's proposed annexation of Notre Dame deserves a quick and merciful dispatch at the hands of the Common Council. 
Ann MC'rie Tracey---------------­
Perhaps we expected a miracle: a comprehensive plan for the most beneficial cooperation between St. Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame. The Park-Mayhew study, as completed, is not, of course a miracle; neither is it comprehensive nor, in all, the best possible solution. Since the spring I970 meeting of the joint boards of trustees when the itudy was called for the password has been "wait until the Park-Mayhew report is in." Yet, now finished, it falls short of our expectations in its content. 
Initially, its lack of details, while leaving the way open for change also leaves the large chance of maintenance of the status quo Park and Mayhew deem detrimental to the potential relationship of the two institutions, if not fatal to their students. Saying most departments should merge, for instance, is comparable to the former dictum that they should meet with each other in efforts toward a better working relationship , which, for the most part, was a failure. Although an appointed coordinator will supervise this procedure, his duties are many and the difficulty of suggesting merger to two obstinate department <;hairmen who, "because of peculiar circumstances or personnel" are opposed, is evident. Another example of the vagueness in the report is the lack of any substantial timetable. 
Secondly, the Park-Mayhew report ignores the basic problem a better cooperation between the two schools should resolve: coeducation. Although "since the end of World War II profound changes in the relationships between the sexes have developed resulting in the gradual elimination of collegiate institutions 
cccccoooooccccococoaoc 
which are limited to one sex" the issue is skirted in the report. Consequently, while "traditions" are maintained, the unbalanced ratio still exists producing unbalanced people, and students are forced into an academic slot which can hardly be termed truly educational. This is seen, for instance, with SMC being able to stress "liberalizing values", while Notre Dame stresses "professional values". Neither orientation is intrinsically better, but the student should be able to choose which type of education he or she wants. 
Finally, with the maintenance of the present single sex institutions as called for in the report, Park and Mayhew almost brush aside (as being too senstiive a set of problems "at this time") questions such as an exhcange of residence halls and open dining facilities. These two aspects of campus life, if handled correctly, could make a 
major difference in the lives of the students, yet they are not dealt with sufficiently. 
The Park-Mayhew report contains a good analysis of the present relationship be.tween SMC and ND as well as many good sugge'stions, such as those concerning the Boards of Trustees and the appointment of a coordinator. But these positive aspects are insufficient by themselves; they must not cloud the root issues we must faceand pacify us when so much more could be introduced and accomplished. 
Ed Ellis 



Get Thee To One 
Certain events occuring this last semester at Saint Mary's College 
have disturbed my aesthetic and religious sensibilities deeply, and it 
is with these events in mind that I undertake to abandon my 
life-long indifference to petty squabbling and enter into the current 
debate over the future of that institution. In short, I shall present, in 
all modesty and with apologies to Mr. Swift, a preposal for the 
alleviation of the multitudinous difficulties occasioned by Saint 
Mary's upon its entry into the twentieth century. It is my fervent 
hope that my analysis of the situation will be taken in all seriousness 
by the learned members of the SMC community (the nuns also, 
should they care to interest themselves) as a possible solution to the 
problems plaguing that institution in its !26th year of operation. 
First, however, I should like to describe those events that were so 
upsetting to my aesthetic equilibrium. First among these was the 
firing of one Dr. Michael Hinkemeyer, reputedly a highly competent 
professor of education, because he was not a Catholic. To my 
apparently heathen mind, this indicates that Saint Mary's is to 
become a center of Catholicism rather than of learning, and since the 
college is hardly a "center" for anything (except, of course, for the 
Universe in the minds of certain neo-Ptolemaic nuns), we are left 
with a "Catholic" place. Discouraging indeed. 
Second, we must consider certain recent statements by Acting 
President Sister Alma Peter concerning co-education and/or merger 
with the University of Notre Dame. The Sister said in an October 
memo to the faculty that Saint Mary's is and must remain a 
"Catholic Liberal Arts College for women." Concerning merger of 
the two schools, she has included in her list of non-negotiable 
demands separate financing for the two schools and separate boards 
of trustees. An aborigine can tell that this is a euphemistic 
"retrenchment." Third. consider the shocking news reported in the 
Observer of December I, 1970 Six girls were caught out of their 
dorms during a post-curfew bed-check, and one girl from SMC was 
even moved to compare her school with a "prison" with security 
guards and the like. Oh, the children of today! Finally, we discover 
in the Observer that some Saint Mary's girls had to have abortions 
last year and that the college administrators were upset. This 
unhappiness is easily understood. And certainly, as the wardens 
imply, those horny Notre Dame guys are responsible and certainly if 
they are responsible then coeducation is unthinkable. 
Given these four premises, I can think of only one institution that is a) devoutly Catholic to the point of expulsion of non-Catholics, b) for women only, c) physically restrictive, especially after dark (when horny demons lurk in every shadow and behind every pair of eyeglasses, and d) abortion-proof. I propose, in all modesty and with open-minded naivete, that Saint Mary's College take those last few obvious steps down the road to becoming a full-fledged nunnery. 
Now while we are waiting forour activist Student Body President David Krashna to awaken from his self-induced slumber and lead us on a strike for this solution to our problems, let us seek a fuller appreciation of the merits of my plan. First and most obviously, the four problem areas encountered by Sister Alma in her altercation with the twentieth century would be solved in a single sweep, of the good sister's habit. No one denies the propriety of the expulsion of non-believers and males from a convent. No one would argue against the right of the superior of a nunnery to protect her charges from Satan by restricting their after-<tark nours. Perhaps also the superior could order her sisters to ward off the devil and his le2ions hv 
.--------------------,Dame, the scrutiny of Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh and the Notre 
Night Editresses: Mary Chris Mor­

Dame Board of Trustees. When Drs. Park and Mayhew analyzed the 
rison and Ann Conway 

situation here at Notre Dame, they were searching for the best 
Headlines: Jim Roe 

possible solution to the situation. I contend that a Saint Mary's 
Layout: Daniel V., Dave Fromn, 

Nunnery, while not the best solution, would satisfy the nuns 
Bill Clemency 

currently administrating Saint Mary's, and obviously this must be our first consideration. 
wearing garlic leaves around their necks and by waving crucifixes that glow in the dark. It would also seem a safe assumption that the convent population of the United States has a lower abortion rate per capita than the non-convent population. And Notre Dame would probably shrink from merger with such an institution, out of principle if not out of habit. The prep school for the NFL could then go coed on its own without the increase in promiscuity that would inevitably follow a merger with the Saint Mary's girls. 
In addition to these basic advantages over the status quo, my plan would allow for a certain elevation of moral and intellectual spirit at Notre Dame. Initially, large social gatherings such as the smoking room at the library and the annual panty raids would be affected. most likely in negative fashion. Also, the shuttle bus would become extinct, thus eliminating the other nightime hot-spot on campus. But consider that with these distractions avoided, the students would have more time to spend on their studies, at least until coeducation became a reality at this campus. Just think, our children's children to the tenth generation might have coeducation, if we and the University Administration act fast enough. What greater stimulation 
to study could we ask for. Think also, of the advantages my plan would confer upon Saint Mary's Nunnery and the vocation of the sisterhood itself. First of all, marijuana smokers at SMN would undoubtedly have no shortage of auditions for "The Flying Nun," and the saving grace of the Golden Dome would be sure to crown their efforts with success. Think, too, of the great boost the presence of Terry Buck in a habit would be for the vocation. Hgh school recruitment would double, at least. Of immense benefit to Notre Dame "men" would be the fact that arguments over the nature of Saint Mary's girls would be ended for ever: All nuns are "stuck-up prudes." W~at I have presented here is, in my humble opinion, a potential solutwn to the problems facing Saint Mary's College in this year of Our Lord, one thousand nine hundred and seventy-one. I feel it merits the careful consideration of Sr. Alma and the SMC board of Trustees, and inasmuch as certain aspects of the plan concern Notre 

Page 5 

Don Mooney 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::~=~~=~:::~:::::~::::::::::::::: 


The Coeducation? Report 

For the last nine months talk about co-education here has always ended with: "Wait until the Park-Mayhew report is done". And it is. Entitled "Relationships between St. Mary's College and the Uni­versity of Notre Dame", it is short, and simple. For a while it even makes sense. It talks realistically about the clouded fu­ture of one-sex education, and about the problems in merging two institutions with subtle but substantial differences. 
The report presents and rejects some alternatives. Expanded co-operation is dismissed. The "simple absorption" of SMC's student body and physical plant would probably be unacceptable to their Board of Trustees, and more importantly, would sacrifice the unique benifits of heightened community feeling enjoyed by a small college. 
The problem is in molding a University that can offer a truely excellent educa­tion (which, as many feel, includes full academic, social, and residential co-ed uca­tion) while preserving St. Mary's advan­tages as a smaller community. 
Park and Mayhew see this, and seem on . the right track: " ... change would have to insure that St. Mary's college would be able to retain its distinctiveness, and would be able to offer, in co-operation with the University, a viable and reason­ably comprehensive Undergraduate pre­gram ... " Fine, and then you turn the page (dramatically), and it reads: " ... designed primarily for women." 
We're back in the same rut again. 
The Report makes a point of not recommending any Co-Ed Residence Halls, or even the institution of a women's dorm on the ND campus. This is one area where students really feel the need for an arrangement that goes beyond co-exchange. 
The report shows little creativity in dealing with the problem of St. Mary's "identity". Park and Mayhew .suggest that St. Mary's " ... because it is small might embrace more wholeheartedly educa­tional experimentalism by engaging in such things as increased inter-disciplinary work and using the newer media in effective but humane ways." A great idea. SMC could be an alternative Liberal Arts 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~college with~ the Un~er~ty wilh dlifu~ ent concentrations and less tradititional styles of education. 
But why can't Notre Dame men be fully ~valved in· that program -not merely as shuttle bus students, but as residents, with full membership in the St. Mary's College of the University? The 


T. G. Knoles 
~~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:::::::: 

The Troinride 

The-Trainride back was too long. Going, it was beyond being boring and became the absurdity of the idea of eternity with those people. 
And paranoia. The middle-aged man in the leather jacket at first stabs the con­ductor, and is later seen to have jumped to catch his change. 
My heavy feeling continues. The time up North will be good, the semester will go well, there are many possibilities. I~ have just left a family which I love and' which I will have forgotten again in two weeks. I have left no one else. 
Going home was the same. Then I was leaving everything at school. As I was waiting at the circle for the very bus to take me away, I met a very nice girl who asked me about my guitar case. She was going to Spain second semester. I actually laughed later in the bus at the idea of meeting someone and having everything against continuation like that. I also saw Santa Claus while I was on that bus. He was walking with a bag over his shoulder down a street in the bad part of town. I couldn't lie about that. 
The trainride continues. The small man 
in the seat in front of me pulled out a 
Nikon and took a picture of the smoke 
from the Bethlehem plant as we oozed 
through Gary. 
I also think of two other trainrides into 
South Bend. Once, someone shot at the 
train, and there was a line of holes across 
the windows. The other time, a man 
speaking poetically caused a girl to leave 
the train. On the same trip a man died. 
They still thought he was asleep when I left, but he was dead. It was probably an overdose of something. 
Home is a warm, friendly place where you can sleep and eat, and stay inside for 
days on end, if you want to, or, you can go out with your friends to comfortable old places, or courageously, to severe new ones. School is warm too. There is a solid routine which occupies most of the day, and it is always easy to kill the rest,.. because you have so many friends living with you. And if you want to do some­thing, you can break off and do it. That is very important. 
But the trip; the trip is cold and frightening. Those ugly, unhappy people are the ones the country is full of. They have no concern for you either, and in fact they fear you, because you aren't one of them. You are alone. And so it is on a very thin thread that you take the trip. 
There is no use in worrying about it. Today is unpleasant, and that's all there is to it. It will be bad getting back to school, hassling over getting a new room key. And when I get back to the room, it will be lifeless because we took down the posters and the maid will have moved everything cleaning up. Also, it will seem badly lighted come evening. 
The schizophrenia of home and school is a nuisance. It can cause delays in doing good things. It is inefficient. The trip is a good buffer for that. The train is a good time to sleep. 
report suggests that a student can major at the opposite institution, but only with the "concurrence" and, it would, imply within the requirements of, the native college. A girl applying to the University of Notre Dame is automatically put into the St. Mary's college without the option of college. choice (Business, Science, etc.) available to a male. Of course, a male wouldn't be enrolled in St. Mary's Col­lege. The result of all this is a denial of real co-education and freedom of move­ment within the University. Further, the · plan the Report suggests wastes an oppor­tunity for an expansion of academic programs that the merger of the two institutions makes possible. The new diversity and concentrations for SMC suggested by the Report won't come from a College that houses women majors in everything from Physics and Engineer­ing to Business and Art. Why not let women and men enroll in the colleges 


they prefer, within a genuinely Co-ed University. The Park-Mayhew report is unfortu­nate. Both Notre Dame and SMC seemed prepared to go much further in terms of real merger, and real co-education 
(especially concerning residences) by next fall. The timetable suggested in the report is 5 years -for the admittedly compli· 
cated task of merging some dep~rtments and campus services. (No mention is made of increasing female enrollment, and it is only suggested that the trustees might merge in the future.) Now the Boards of Trustees have a well-paid-for excuse to continue dragging their feet. If they accept the Report at their March meeting the steps they will take on Co-education will be slow and inadequate -ignoring the sense of urgency felt by most students and many faculty mem­bers. 
But the decisions haven't been made yet. Because of the ambiguity of the Report and its recommendations, student interest and pressure could have an im­portant effect on the final path chosen. Notre Dame and St. Mary's students should unite behind a reasonable alterna­tive plan for the future of our University. The two student governments can draw up this plan which might be endorsed by both student bodies at the General Assembly scheduled for early February. 
The students can also show they are serious about co-education. Student Governments and services might be merged. Just working together on some­thing of common importance "on a large scale would be an impressive bit of pregress. 
Real Co-education won't be here be­fore many of us graduate. But wouldn't it be nice if we broke down the segregated. housing policy just a little. And wouldn't it be nice if we could send our kids here in good conscience, while telling them gory stories of suffering that beg~ with 
"Why, I remember when.... " 



r-------, 
t . t t t 
.~~~~~~~~ 
sinales 21·35 
Friday, January 22 
At Nicolas Restaurant just north of downtown South Bend (809 N. Michigan) 
the band 

SYMBOL 


The Cultural Arts Commission Presents 

2001 A Space Odyssey 
January 20, 21 and 1:2 tliJashington Hall General Admission $1.00
7:30 and 10:00 



Wednesday, January 20, 1971
Page 6 



N D record stands 8-4 after break 
Although most Notre Dame students took advantage of the long vacation between sem­esters by relaxing and taking things easy, the Fighting Irish basketball squad did anything but that. Johnny Dee's charges traveled over a major portion of the country as they took five more victories and suf­fered two losses during the four week plus break. The season record now stands at 8-4 and the unenviable task of meeting top ranked UCLA faces the weary Irish. 
In the first game after Christmas Notre Dame chal­lenged the Wildcats from Ken­tucky and they put together what most people feel is their best performance to date as they stomped the men of Adolph_ ''The Baron" Rupp 99-Q-2'..The score is no indica­tion, of the way the Irish dom­ii]Aiied play from the start. 

on
•


ar1c 

Not until you find out just how rewarding a career in Computer Sales or Systems Support is with RCA. 
Computer Salesmen at RCA are selling packages that are eight­een months ahead of major com­petitors. 
Large time-sharing computers 

tion. 
For more information contact your College Placement Director, or write directly to RCA College Relations, Dept. L, Cherry Hill, Camden, New Jersey 08101. We are an equal opportunity em­ployer. 
On Campus Interviews 
February 3, 4, 1971 


ROll 
Only a late surge by the Wild­cats got the score down to a respectable level a~ the Irish margin reached as high as 18 points. 
Austin Carr once again con­ducted a clinic in the art of shooting as he poured in SO markers to lead all scorers (and this despite the use of an Adolph Rupp autograph model basketball). Collis Jones contributed 20 points before the packed house of 1 7,245 in "neutral Louisville" to help vault the Irish back into the top twenty. 
The Santa Clara Broncos came to South Bend to keep a New Year's Eve date with Austin Carr & Co. and they proved to be disrespectful guests when they threw a scare into their hosts. The Broncs extended the Irish into over­time before succull'lbing 85-83. 
Carr led all scorers with 
that can support over 350 remote terminals. 
And, this is only the beginning. 
We are, at present, doubling our sales force. 
We also intend to increase our business at twice the rate of the computer industry. 
43 points and Jones:>nce was 
second high with 20. Jolly 
Specht played an outstanding 
game for SCU and his outside 
shooting kept the visitors in 
the game until the overtime buzzer. 
The Irish celebrated the 
football team's Cotton Bowl's 
victory with a big win of their 
own the following day over a 
representative Minnesota 
squad. The Gophers fell to 
Austin Carr's 45 point barrage 
by a 97-73 count. 
Notre Dame shot a torrid 56.1% for the game from the field to mark a season high. The 24 point margin was the biggest difference of the season for the Irish over an opponent. 
A weekend trip to Colorado Springs provided the Irish the opportunity to perform before a national televisoion audi­ence. A sloppy game by the .Irish left most viewers with a 
We are a highly diversified, total systems oriented company-con­cerned with the problems. of the future. 
So THINK about your future. Our sales force is drawn from a va­riety of majors-a technical de­gree is not required -we are more interested in your motiva­
rather distasteful of ND basketball however. The Irish beat the Air Force 75-71 in a lackluster contest. 
The Irish could never quite open up a lead over the tena­cious Falcons who were led by a 5'8" guard by the name of Charlie Brown. Even though he had one of his poorer games of the season, Carr man­aged 34 tallies. It still wasn't a good sample for national TV viewers of the talents of the Irish captain. 
Riding a four game win ~treak the ND cagers invaded Milwaukee Arena with hopes of ending the nation's longest collegiate win streak which totaled 23 by the Marquette Warriors. The Irish had another poor night, however, and an impressive second half comeback feil short by five points. MU won this big one 71-66 and on the strength of this win jumped to the No. 2 ranking in the nation. 
Although the duo of Carr and Jones outscored Mar­quette's twosome of Jim Chones and Dean Memminger by a 42 to 39 score the sup­porting cast from the"Suds City" was just a bit stronger. Chones was an impressive big man (6'11 ")as he tallied 20 to Carr's 22. Austin was held to only four points in the first half by the Warrior's 6'6" de­fensive ace Gary Brell. 
At one point in this game 
Marquette led by 17 points 
but the Irish rallied in the 
middle of the second half to 
scare the unbeaten Warriors. It 
was Memminger's clutch foul 
shooting that assured Mar­
quette a victory in the late 
stages of the game. 
The Convoation Center can 
be a pretty quiet place when 
the Notre Dame student body 
isn't in attendance at a basket­
ball game. Only 5,561 people 
showed up to watch the ND 
cagers meet the Detroit 
Titans and it was so quiet that 
the Irish slept away part of the 
game as Detroit moved to a I 5 
point advantage. Austin Carr, 
the nation's second leading 
scorer, had only nine points in 
the first half. 
Then, even without the ex­hortations of the students, the Irish exploded to win, going away 93-79. The fuse to this explosion was a stuck of dyna­mite named Carr. The All-Am­erican guard hit for 38 points after intermission to ignite the ND charge. 
The last game during the vacation may have been the worst effort by the Irish this season. A very "up" Duquesne quintet took the measure of Notre Dame in overtime by an 81-78 score. 
The Dukes were able to break a shoddy ND press throughout the game and this enabled them to connect on a very hot 61% from the field mostly on Jayups. The Irish were. down by I 0 points with Jess than ten minutes remain­ing but they rallied to take a 69-67 lead with only one min­ute showing on the clock. 
Throughout the game neit­her team was in foul trouble and at this point ND had but five team fouls. Many felt that the Irish should have fouled the Dukes at this point permit­ting them only one try at the charity stripe and then grant­
ing ND possession of the ball. The Dukes scored to send the game into overtime. 
Even though Duquesne played their best game of the season and Notre Dame prob­ably their worst, it took some questionable calls (particularly on a technical foul call after a scuffle had broken out be­tween John Pleick and Barry Nelson of Duquesne) by the officials to get the Dukes their eighth victory. 
Duquesne offset Austin Carr and Collis Jones who hit for 31 and 27 points with a balanced scoring attack. The 6' I0" Nelson twins (Garry and Barry) combined for 37 points and Jarret Durham hit well from the outside to aid in the Irish downfall. Mickey Davis and Mike Barr played solid floor games in Duquesne's big­gest win in the last three seas­ons. 
Carr hit on only 13 of 39, his worst shooting night of the year. 
~-~----------~---­


Page 7
Wednesday, January 20, 1971 

' 

The Irish Eye 
Well folks, now it's official. We can all go back to worrying about the draft, inflation, strikes, and little things like that. President Richard Nixon has decided for us the over-riding question of our time. He has made it perfectly clear just who Numbrt One is. Long live the Nebraska Cornhuskers! 
With all due respect to the chief executive I must sound a voice of dissent, however. No, I'm not a leftist, Connie-pinko radical. I am simply a sports fan who believes that the president has no 
(Photos by Pat Gibbs)
jurisdiction in proclaiming the Number One team in the nation. No sir, Nebraska is not Number One. The year of 1970 (or the Year of the Quarterback if you prefer) should go down in the record books as a year that simply could not produce a bonafide National Cha111Jion. 
Looking at the problem of selecting a Number One team objectively it would be best to define the terms used. Just what does it mean to be Number One?l have always been of the opinion that Number One means going against the best competition ill the country and coming away without a blemish on the record. i'o be Number One a team must produce on every given opportunity. For exa111Jle, Texas was without a doubt the Number One team of 1969. The Longhorns rmwed down their opposition and they proved their worth of National Champions on the field. Richard Nixon didn't make the Horns "Numero Uno" last year, Texas earned it. Penn State registered a complaint because they had an identical record but the Nittany Lions had no beef because they rejected the opportunity for a head to head playoff with the only other major unbeaten team in the nation. Instead they chose the sun and fun route of Miami. Texas played the strongest opponent they could find and beat them in a comeback performance. Always the mark of a champion. 
Nineteen hundred and seventy. produced a quite different situation. There were no unbeaten and untied teams remaining at the 

• ::::

season:'s end thus no one proved worthy of the title of Number One. Arizona State has as much right to claim this co.veted position as anyone. No one could touch them during the season and the bowl people were too afraid to take a chance on an unknown like the Sun Devils to let them have a crack at one of the "name" schools in a big bowl. ASU versus Tennessee could have proved a great deal to the poll watchers. So by default the Sun Devils must be counted out of the running for Number One. 
Our own head coach Ara Parseghian felt a little hitter about the final poll and he had a legitimate gripe. ND did take the challenge of meeting No. I Texas, and they proved that on that afternoon they were the superior team. , 13 points superior to be exact. I must disagree with you, coach, on the subject of who is to occupy that primary spot. 
• As things stand now, that is, with something as subjective as c..:oaches and writers' deciding the National Champion, the only fair way to make a final judgment is to pick the team that is unbeaten and untied. If there is no major college team in this categroy there simply is no National Champ. 
I am not saying that just because a team has been beaten it is no good. Something that ridiculous belongs in Sports Illustrated! If a team is chosen subjectively then its record must be concrete enough to prove this claim justified. 
The only way to prove a National Championship is that which is 
done in college basketball. There must be a playoff system. Coach 
Parseghian proposed this a long time ago and it's time for the NCAA 
to realize that nothing will be settled until Ara's plea is answered. 
IRISH EYE-TEM -Did you ever wonder why no one of any 
political importance was in the locker room to congratulate this year's Cbtton Bowl champs?Maybe LBJ thought his burnt orange shirt might clash with all that green. 

Page 8 7HB 0&1'£RW1t Wednesday, January 20, 1971 

'White paper' argues against annexation 
(Continued from page 1) 
annexation and provides The "white paper" examines reasoned arguments against an­

the arguments for and against nexation. 
WITH MAX SHULMAN 

(By lh< author of Rally Round the Flag, Boyo .•• DobieGillio ... tlr.) 
Nice Guys Finish 

Who makes a better teacher-a strict authoritarian type person or a relaxed permissive type person? In faculty lounges across the country this vexing question is causing much earnest discussion and not a few stabbings. Today, to help you find an answer, Jet me tell you about the Sigafoos brothers. 
The Sigafoos brothers were both professors at a famous Eastern university (Colorado School of Mines). Worsham, the elder brother, taught mica and feldspar. Hymie, the younger, taught shafting and shoring. Worsham was a strict authoritarian who believed the best way to teach was to stay aloof from his students, to be distant and forbid­ding. In Worsham's classes only he talked, nobody else. In fact, not only didn't he let his students talk to him, he didn't even let them look at him. For years the kids had to fall full length on their bellies every time Worsham entered the classroom and stay that way until he left. The college finally forced him to stop last spring after a sophomore coed named Ethel R. Beinecke died from an overdose of floor wax. After that Wor!ftlam just had the kids drop to one knee. 
(Incidentally, speaking of dropping to one knPe, it's a very ironic little story, the story of how this custom began. As you know of course, it started in Bavaria during the reign of Ludwig the Gimp (1608-1899) who, as you know of course, had one leg shorter than the other. To keep the king from feeling self-conscious, his subjects would always drop to one knee whenever he came gimping by. Indeed, they did such a convincing job that Ludwig lived all his life believing everybody had one short leg. 
(Now here comes the ironic part: after his death it was discovered that Ludwig never had a short leg after all! Do you know what he had? He had his pants buttoned to his vest!) 
But I digress. Worsham Sigafoos, I say, stayed aloof from his.stu­dents. So what happened? The students grew steadily more cowed and sullen, trauma and twitching set in, night sweats followed, and when it came time for finals, every man jack of them flunked. 
Now let us take Worsham's younger brother Hymie. Breezy, bearded, twinkly, outgoing, dressed always in homespun robes and a Navajo puberty pouch, Hymie was totally unlike his brother (except, of course, that each had one short leg). Hymie believed the way to teach was to be a pal to the students, not a despot. He let the kids come to class or not, whichever they liked. Classroom discussions were free and unstructured. Anyone who had anything to say simply spoke up. Sometimes the class discussed classwork, but more often they just sat and gassed about life in general or maybe played a little Show and Tell. (This was especially popular in spring when everybody brought their Easter chicks to class.) 
Well sir, you guessed it. Hymie's class, loved and fulfilled though they were, flunked just like Worsham's, every man jack. 
You're frowning, I see. If authority is wrong, you ask, and if friendliness is wrong too, what then is right? Well sir, how about some­thing right in between? How about striking a perfect balance-just as, for example, Miller High Life Beer has done? 
Take a sip of Miller and you'll see what I mean. Does it have authority? You bet it does! It's brisk, it's bracing, it's ardent, it's sub­stantial, it's forceful. If that's not authority, then I need a new the­saurus. . 
Take another sip. Now do you see that along with its authority, Miller is at the same time a wonderfully friendly beer-affable and benign and docile and dulcet? 
Of course you see that. And that's exactly what I mean by strik­ing a perfect balance-stalwart yet satiny, lusty yet lambent, strap­ping yet soothing, brawny yet breezy, manly yet mellow, spirited yet supple. Well sir, all I can say is, you find a teacher who combines all of these qualities and, by George, I'll drink him! 
The administration is champ­ioning the divisiveness that is the inevitable result of the present squabble as the major reason for stopping annexation proceed­ings. Spokesmen caution that the damage caused may impair the town and gown relationship for a long time. The predicted pressure to tax the univeristy after annexation to pay for vital services would also add the fall­ing out they say. 
The university has also said they are "convinced" that the annexation question is creating conflict in those who feel a divided loyalty between the town and the university. This is not wanted, however, there is no doubt that the university will sacrifice divisiveness to hisure that annexation is not success­ful. 
These other arguments against annexation were elaborated upon in the white paper. 
-The business and industrial development of South Bend, while "immeasurably enhanced" by the presence of Notre Dame, in no wya depends on the uni­veristy's actually being a part of the city. Obviously, the privatf' property of the univeristy will not provide space for one more urban housing unit or one more commercial development. Father Hesburgh has noted that Notre Dame has provided $1 00 million worth of construction for the city without being a part of the city. 
Notre Dame's economic, cultural, and educatioal contri­butions to the city does not rest on the university being "in-
NEED A CHEST, BOOKCASE OR RECORD CABINET? Buy it unpainted, saveYz or more 

Free Delivery 
2609  S. Michigan  
1217WilliAM'S  E. McKinley  (U.S.  20  Mishawaka  
-2  miles  east  of  Town  and  
Phone -288-2181  Coentry  center)  



tegral" to the city. Notre Dame has long been a shining feature of any promotion of the city's educational and cultural activi­ites. The Athletic and Convoc­ation Center has increased the city's attraction without expense to the city. 
-The annexation of the uni­versity complex would add ten thousand new names to the city voting lists, providing that the Indiana legislature passes an eighteen year old vote measure 
which seems likely, and the re­sult "could severely alter the city's political stability." 
-Annexation would result in the loss of the Notre Dame post office and the dateline "Notre Dame, Indiana." This is a matter of "considerable consequence" to the three institutions that use it. 
The univeristy is trying very hard to settle the annexation question before next Monday's South Bend Common Council meeting, but it appears that these efforts will be unsuccessful and the dispute will go to a vote. 
What then becomes clear is tlrat the city is committed to raising money and the university is committed to preserving its private tax exempt status. The annexation question ultimately brings these two committments into conflict. Notre Dame appears the likely winner. 
However, a civil war is impos­sible. The university cannot secede if annexed. 
THE SALE IS ON! 
Save as muc:1 as one-half on university styled apparel 
THE SALE IS ON! 
Suits, Sportcoats, Suburba11 Coats, All-Weather Coats 

THE SALE IS ON! 
Dress Shirts, Sport Vests, CPO Shirts and more. 
THE SALE IS ON! 
Stop  in  and  look  the savings over. The sale  is on.  
Use your account... PAY ON£-THIRD In January PAY ON£-THR) In February PAYONI:-THIRD In March  ON THE CAMPUS  ... NOTRE DAME  

NO CAMYIIC CHAliCE 
* * * 

We, the brewers of Miller High Life Beer, bring you Maz Shulman's lusty yet lambent column eiJery week through the school year-often ner­t~ously. And eiJery day-always with serene confidence-we bring you Miller High Life, the Champagne of Beers, in cans, bottles and kegs­delicious all ways. 






