Vol. V No. 
Reorganizat on causes resignation of Dean 
the appointment of a vice-pres­"Because it entails major by Ann Therese Darin sident of student affairs and financial expenditures, students, 
"Because l believe the the creation of a Freshman Year faculty, and the rest of the principles of community govern­Office, announced Wednesday administration should have been ment at St. Mary's College have by Sr. Alma Peter, acting college considered," she said. been violated, I am, therefore, president, were planned without According to Miss Tracey, resigning as a member of the any consultation. with the dean Miss Cannon hasn't had an inter­
Student Personnel Staff with the of students or her staff, accord­view with any representative of 
ing to Sister Immaculata. community government or the
expiration of my contract August 31, 1971 ," Sr. Imma­In making the announcement, staff with which she will work. culata Driscoll, SMC dean of the resigning dean said, "The "Because of this and because the job has not been defined-she is
students announced yesterday in reorganized structure showing a formal statement. the work of the Dean of Stu­friends with members of the dents (as it is presently accom­administration and the board of
Her resignation stems from an "unclear" reorganization of her plished in the current structure) trustees-it seems strange that department by the Board of to become Vice-President of she could accept a job under 
such circumstances," revealed

Trustees and the administration. Student Affairs meets with my 
These changes, which include complete approval. There has (Continued on page 2) been a general agreement in the past that an assistant was needed 
Sister Immaculata who announced her resignation yesterday. 
·-----------­
for the Dean of Students."

Bronson Society panel SBP's coli for
"Perhaps, within the new organization, a re-definition of the position of the Dean of Co-ed drive Students will fill this need. I do

condemns abortion 
With this statement, Notre

not understand the reason for 
ment, and Professor Charles Rice ovum is not simply an "appen­Dame and St. Mary's student
by Jerry Lutkus eliminating the position of 
from the Notre Dame Law dage." governments begin a unified ef­
Claiming that it is difficult to Director of Housing," she con­
fort to influence the decision of

School. "It's not like a fibroid tumor.
determine exactly when the fe­tinued. "The inability on my 
the Boards of Trustees on the

The four speakers presented a It's an individual. Of all those
tus becomes imbued with human part to understand the reasons 
future relationships of our two 

case against abortion, building I've talked to in the profession,
life, Prof. Ralph Mcinerney for the changes in the organiza­institutions. 
on each other's material. Mciner­
opened a panel discussion on none will admit that abortion is tional structure bring me to the Our goal is full co-education, in 
ney spoke of the quandry of life the taking of a human life " he
Abortion vs. Life, in the library area of my disapproval." all colleges, within one university. auditorium last night. and non-life. said. ' Although the administration We see the Park-Mayhew report as "If it can be maintained that "Are we on the r.:>ad to select­inadequate in many ways. There­
Mcinerney, of the philosophy has termed the vice-presidential
from the moment of conception ed euthanasia? I'm frightened. I fore students and faculty of both
department, was joined by Dr. appointment of Dr. Mary Alice 
life has begun, then abortion is don't know how to kill. I could 1institutions will work on a com­
R. W. Chamblee, South Bend Cannon as a "necessary expendi­
prehensive alternative report, to

not justifiable. However, if the be an abortionist and be rich
physician, Rev. Leon Mertonsot­ture" and "economical since 
be endorsed by a General Assem·

fertilized but I don't think I could sleep at
to, of the N.D. Theology Depart-ovum is no more than both the dean of students and 
bly of students in February, and

internal growth like a cyst, then night. If you've ever seen a 24 the academic dean requested aid 
to be presented to the Boards at

NinJcemeyer 

abortion is something entirely week old fetus pulled out and which Dr. Cannon will supply to their March meeting in Key Bis­different. There are difficulties " laid on the table to die, then you both of them," student govern­cayne, Florida. 
he continued, "in drawing a d~­know what an abortion is. Until

considering 

ment has questioned the This report will be meaningful embarkation line anywhere a­you hear it screaming for air and pro_cedure with which the pro­to the Trustees only if it repre·eourf action long the pre-natal process. Any­kicking to stay alive, you don't gram was announced. sents a broad spectrum of student where that human life may exist, know what an abortion is. We feelinfJ. Since the Trustees will
Jean Gorman, student body
by Dave McCarthy morally speaking, we must as­begin to play God and I don't vice-president, "it not be on campus, to meet with
commented, 
students or faculty in person,

Pnf Michael Hinkemeyer sume that it does." think any of us has the right. J'm was done in an undiplomatic and 
what we send them must some­

has still not decided whether to Mcinerney then introduced frightened, disturbed, disillusion­
unchristian way, but the presi­how carry all of the deeply heldfile a lawsuit against Saint the theory of dou[Jle effect. It ed, and depressed," he com­
dent of an institution has that emotions involved in our respec­
Mary's regarding his contract involves the idea of self-defense mented. 
right." tive, one-sex environments. 
termination. "The institution of that is, if one is attacked and Fr. Mertonsotto spoke next In other words, we need the
Ann Marie rTracey, student
litigation would be very serious must kill to save himself, murder and attempted to outline the help of many people in compiling 
body president, claimed that
and regrettable and should only is justifiable. If, however, any Church's historical view of abor­what we hope will be a unique
"from the financial aspect, it is
be instituted ifall other means of other means can be employed to tion. He noted that abortion was report-one that gives the student
doubtful that this will be an 
top priority. Carol Henninger

attaining satisfaction fail," save your life which do not widespread during the time of economy move. Although Dr~ 
{4792) and Tim Conner {76681

Hinkemeyer, who learned of his require the killing of the assail­the early Christians and their 
Cannon's job hasn't been will co-ordinate this effort. Please
contract termination on ant then that death is unjusti­reaction to it was an attempt to 
defined from the new organiza­contact them in order to volun-November 25, said. . fied. Intent is all important. answer the problem of a lack of tion chart, it is obvious that her teer.
When asked whether the state­"No direct, intended attack human respect. The epistles of job will have nothing to do with Ann Marie Traceyhe undecided

ment meant was on the fetus is justifiable, just as 
(Continued on Page 6) academics." Dave Krashna 
on legal action Hinkemeyer said, no direct, intended attack 
on a "Action is planned on a con­
human is justifiable," Mcinerney fnviroment-counselling ------------­
tingency basis, depending upon 
said..

whether the college will give me Dr. Chamblee presented thethe satisfaction that I seek." 
medical outlook on abortion. He 
Counselling Center opens office In Alumni
He would not define "satisfac­made a point of noting that he tion" remarking that his counsel spoke for himself and not the

had advised him to make no 50 or more students have land of the Center supervise the
medical profession. He said that 
comment. He did list two of the by Greg Rowinski visited the facilities since the effort, Schumacher noted, while
he has never performed an abor­
means of attaining satisfaction:­opening in October. In the first
Under the supervision of the other members of the Center
tion, but for years he has been"First, the college's openess to "cleaning up" after them, check­Counselling Center, two Grad­semester, the extension has and the Education Department negotiate with me. Second, the reached its primary goal of
uate students, Larry Schumacher provide valuable assistance. possibility of the faculty grie­availability, Lawson reported. ·Lawson refers to himself as a ing out patients who have had 
and Cassell Lawson, have ex­vance procedure." However, he "It frightens me. All of our tended the Center's services with Still, "not as many have lJSed the "trainee" in this "right-out-of­said he did not know what efforts have been directed to­an office at Alumni Hall. The opportunity as we thought the-lab" project. A first-year
would happen next, or when. should have," said Schumacher. 
abortions. 
purpose of this extension is to Doctoral student, with a Mas­
wards saving lives. Now we of
Hinkemeyer said that he had He added that many who came
work in conjuction with the ter's in Education and an under­the medical profession are be­
been given one reason for his didn't require help while many
Center in the Administration graudate degree in Sociology and release, a verbal one. It came in of those who could be aidedcoming the instruments of the 
Building and to "deal directly on History, he is seeking his degreethe presence of one witness and didn't appear.
pro-abortionists. Are we viewing 
the student level", according to in Counselling P.sychology. Hea change in American morals or 
was given by the head of the The office hours are still in
Schumacher. special interest
the birth of a new form of has expressed a 
education department, Dr. Eu­the process of being scheduled.
self-interest morality? Can we As Lawson described it, the in urban education and its pro­
gene Ca!11Janale. Hinkemeyer Information regarding times can
call it murder or must we change project is "an outreach office" blems. 
said that Campanale told him he be obtained by caJiing Alumni
providing "environment­A first-year grad student inthe definition so that we might
"was too closely associated with Hall.
counselling." This storefront­Couselling and Guidance, Schu­live more comfortably. It is mur­
Father Raymond Runde. I can't The two grad students· con­
der!" type venture is a decentral­macher intends to seek a Phd., in 
believe that this is truly the duct the service volutarily with­Psychology.
He went on to state that life ization which would put the Counselling 
reason and neither can Father out pay or academic credit. Dr.
exists from the moment of con-. counselling facilities "right in
Runde." Paul Banikotes and Fr. Dan Bo-(Continued on Page 3)
the dorm."
ception and that the fertilized 
Friday, January 29, 1971 

P
_a~--2------------------------------~~--~~Q~~==~~R~U!l~----------~--------~~~~~~ 



Appointment stirs dispute 
MARDI GRAS 
.. ·~~ 
'/'
[ . 
'~ 

no re dame 
Why not sell a raffle book tills weekend? The Notre Dame Charities would appreciate it. 

WALT DIBNEYPaoDVCTJOBI' 


711•fti/IIGIIIIIItY
TECHNICOLOR' 
Ph. 
233· AT 7301 
6 :30 starts TONIGHT 

--~~~~~ 

1 NE;0 ~~~· ~;~;·s;~c;;c~~-~
4 ===(Q m 
JAGUA~ 1
1 

t CONTINENTAL MOTORS INC. t 
' ' 
~ 5800 S. LA GRANGE RD. ~ L----~~~G~Ill·-!~~'1----' 
(Continued from Page 1) 
Miss Tracey. 
Miss Tracey questioned whether Sr. Alma and the Board were looking for a specific person to fit into the spot. In considering the repercussions of the appointment for SMC Miss Tracey had a number of'ques­tions. "We must know if this person is in agreement with stu­dent policies. Why was she selected without student or faculty consultation? What is her stand toward coeducation? Will she actively support it?" 
Miss Tracey contended that all those questions should have been answered before Dr. Cannon was hired. 
Fr. Raymond Runde, a mem­ber of the student affairs com­mittee, of which Dr. Cannon will be a vital part, claimed that her 
appointment was "a unilateral
....~~ 
decision without consulting the committee, students or faculty." He speculated that this could be the end of the community tri­partite government at St. Mary's. Denying the charge that the plan undermines community government, Sr. Alma stated "If there's anybody who has tried to uphold community government, I have. The idea originated with Student suggestions and concern which indicated that they felt the need for such a top adminis­trator who'll have the last word 
on student affairs."  
Although  she  would  not  
en urn era te  the  new  vice­ 
president's  responsibilities  she  

revealed that the new 'vice­president will see "that the office is staffed adequately and effectively" relieving the dean of students of "exasperating administrative tasks such as spending hours trying to find nurses to staff the infirmary." 
Sister Alma based her actions on a mandate from the Board of Trustees October 10 1970 which stated, "to study ;eriously the need of increasing the various counseling services of the college, if possible, supplement the academic counseling before the second semester.'' 
She reported that as a result of a report by the Educational Policy Committee, the Board 
KICKOFF PARTY EXPO '7J 9:00P.M., WED., FEB. 3, '7J. 
SOUTH BEND NATIONAL GUARD ARMORY 
$5.00 PLR COUPLE 1901 S. KEMBLE 
-TIX at Student Union Ticket Offzce Tuesday & Wednesday at the Dining Halls & at the door. Bus service from circle & St. Mary 's 

The Marx Brothers 
asked her to implement the 
services in the manner she 
thought best, which also inclu­
ded the establishment of a 
Freshmm Year Office. 
According to one administra­
tor, however, this establishment 
carne less than a month after a 
commission of faculty and 
administrators decided that the 
program would be impractical 
because it would conflict with 
t 1e present student advisor pro­
g.-1m. 
The acting president also cited 
Article II, Section I of the 
Governance of the College 
manual which empowers the 
~resident "to make such changes 
m the organizational structure of 
the College as are beneficial to 
the well-heing of the Ccllege and 
which are not in violation of the 's.tatutes.'·? 
Questioned on the sudden 
dismissal of Mrs. Linda 
P~trovich, director of housing, 
S1sted stated, "There has been 
talk in the past of whether her 
job should be full-time or 
part-time. For the sake of 
economy, if was more practical 
to assign her duties to the new 
vice-president." 
On the selection of Dr. Cannon, who will arrive today from Marquette University where she is in the education department, Sister Alma dis­_closed, "I[~~ to tell exactly 
how it carne about." 
"When she was nominated for 
President, her credentials carne 
to the attention of the search 
committee. As with many of the 
apP,licants," Sister explained 
"D. r. Cannon sounded ideally' 
su1ted to St. Mary's. 
Managing Editor: Bill Carter Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treanor News Editor: Ed Ellis Features Editor: Dave Lammers Sports Editor: Terry Sheilds Calll>US Editor: Steve Lazar Night Editor: Dave Bach Layout: Joe Abell, Jim McDermott Headlines: John Abowd Controller of theN ight: Rick Smith 

IN 



"ROOM SERVICE" 
FRI & SAT SUNDAY 7:30 & 9:30 2:00 & 4:00 
BADIN VINTAGE CINEMA 
Get reacfy for the thrill of 

Proof ofage required 
See both as late as 8:45 
Flanner Basement Comes Alive!! 
Relax to 

<RICK HOMAN the music MORAN & GUERNSEY of .. J09N HURLEY 
only $1.00 
Fri. & tilSat. nites 



AMERICA 8:30 
I 12:30 

... .._ ... ..._.._..._ ..... .._ .... .. ........... .. "-..? .............,. • .,..., 
OO.V'V ·····~····· .....,...,. ....,. ............. ._ .. 
The Cultural Arts Co'llmission's Cinema '71 Presents 

L'IMMORTELLE 
(screenplay written by Robbe-Grillet) 
January 30 & 31 2:00 & 8:00 
Washington Hall Admission $1.00 Cinema '71 Patrons Free 
"RIO LOBO" .• . u ~p \::\:'1·
..;:'· 

fJJMELY production ADULTS' {\\t . 
Techntcolor• 0 

Friday, January 29, 1971 71/B OBSERUER. Page 3 

In the Kissinger plot 

Judge denies priest's motion 
be privileged" Herman said. 
HARRISBURG, Pa. (UPI) ­A federal judge yesterday denied 

"When and if he (Michelman)is a motion to dismiss a subpoena 
asked a question in which his against a Roman Catholic priest 
answer would require him to who an attorney charged would relate something confessed to be asked to "violate the seal of 
him I would sustain the mo­confession" if he appeared be­
tion," Herman said. fore a grand jury investigating a The grand jury which has in­kidnap bomb plot. 
dicted six persons in an alleged Federal Judge R. Dixon Her­plot to kidnap presidential ad­man made the ruling after hear­
viser Henry. A. Kissinger, and ing arguments from Francis X. 
bomb the heating systems of five Gallagher, counsel for the Balti­
government buildings called but more Roman Catholic archdio­
one witness yesterday. cese on behalf of the Rev. Wil­
Mrs. Zoia Horn, 52, a Buck­
liam Michelman of Baltimore. nell University librarian who 
"One of the defendants has had pleaded the Fifth Amend~ 
confessed to this witness (Mich­

ment when called earlier testi­elman)" Gallagher said. There is 
fied for about two hours yester­no question that the seal of 
day under full immunity from confession will not be broken." 
prosecution. Judge Herman said he did 
She would not comment on 
"not think there is any merit" in the secret proceedings but said 
the motion to quash the sub­"l answered all the questions." 
poena. Those indicted J:ly the grand 
"My feeling is that informa­jury for conspiracy in the alleged tion from a truly penitent per­plot are the Rev. Philip Berrigan, son confessing to a priest should the Rev. Neil R. McLaughlin and 
New locking policy at Alumni initiated to 1mprove security 
by Milt Jot1es 
In response to resident's re­quests, outside doors to Alumi Hall will be locked twenty-four 
hours a day. In two main en­trance ways automatic doors have been installed which open when a special card, distributed to each resident, is inserted. 
Director of security Arthur Pears said, "The doors were re­quested by Alumni residents in the fall afttri the1 stabbing inci­dent at Alumni. The incident was the. action of O\}tsiders, and this system should eliminate problems of that n'ature in the future." Pe.ar& further stated that "if residl.m'ts Indiscriminately let outside strangers in on their cards, the ·purpose of the doors will be defdted, 'since the doors were designed to keep strangers out of the hall." He added that "The $1000 door system was financed by the university. It should be working by tomor­row." 

Alumni Hall rector, Father Mulcahy, said, "There would be few exceptions to the twenty­four hour locked door rule. On football and other major week­ends when there will be a large number of visitors, the doors will be opened." 
Mulcahy further commented that "A one dollar deposit for the cards will be required of each resident. This money will be kept to go toward financing new cards for the following year." 
"Visitors to A.Jumni Hall can enter the lobby but will have to call the resident that they are visiting to come down and let them in," Mulcahy said. He added that "In case of a party, one of the residents will have to be at the door with his card to let the guests in." 
the Rev. Jo~eph R. Wenderoth, both Baltimore priests; Anthony Scoblick, a former priest; Sister Elizabeth McAlister, a Tarry­town N.Y. nun, and Eqbal Ah­mad of Chicago, a Pakistani citi­zen. 
Counselling 
(Continued from Page 1) 
· · In trying to eliminate the pro­
blem of students not knowing 
where the center was, Lawson 
said he hoped that the office 
would continue to be a place for 
students "to drop in and talk, 
one-shot counselling, in other 
words." Hopefully, the visitor 
will "aire his problems to relieve 
and ventilate his frustration,". 
said Lawson. 
The typical problem the of­
fice faces is that of the sopho­
more still unsure of his major 
field, Lawson noted. Schumach­
er added that they have dealt 
with academic problems of all 
types. Adjustment of the 
"different community" of col­
lege life has been a major topic 
of concern for some, while study 
habits and vocational indecision · 
worry a number of students. 
If the problem requires medi­
cation or psychological help, 
Schumacher emphasized, they 
refer these clients to the infirm­
ary or the Psychological Center. 
All conversations, he promised, 
are kept in the strictest confi­
dence. 
Lazar promoted 
Observer Editor-in-Chief Glen 
Corso announced the appoint­
ment of Steve Lazar as campus 
editor. Lazar, a sophomore from 
Youngstown, OHio, will be 
charged with doing "investiga­
tive news reporting" according 
to Corso. 
Lazar will assume the seat on 
the editorial board vacated by 
Dave Bach, who will assume 
_Lazar's post as night editor. 
Opening for the Semester 


AMERICA COFFEEHOUSE 
I with " 
~:!an I Mo~an I ~o!~ey
Guernsey 

Friday & 8:30pm til Planner Saturday 12:30 am Basement 




All Juniors 
JUNIOR PARENTS-SON WEEKEND WILL HOLD ITS' FINAL TICKET SALES AND TABLE RESERVATIONS FOR THE PRESIDENT'S DINNER AT: 
LaFortune Student Center 
February I, 2, 3, tc;71 

7-$PM 

CAC and CAF  Pizza Hut Pete Presents  
Proudly Present  
The Lyric Theater  
Friday, Jan. 29, 8:00 PM  ND & SMC  
O'Lauahlln Auditorium  "Holiday Special"  
~ price on any pizza  
or soft drink  
Combination of the Anna Soholow Dance Company, the  With School J.D.  
Philadelphia Theater Workshop & the Philadelphia compos­ Monday tluu Thursday  
ers Forum.  Good only at the Edison Rd. HUT 2  
Guest Dancer: Alice Condodina  EAT IN OR CARRY OUT  
TRY OUR NEW SUBMARINE.SANDWICH  
Adults $3.00 Students $2.00  •  
2 LOCATIONS-CALL AHEAD  
CAF Patrons $1.00  288-6060 SO. BEND #1 ACROSS FROM I.U. 233•3827 SO. BEND #2 MILE EAST OF N.D.  
We Are the Nations Largest!  
The Observer is pubiished daily during the college semester except  
vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St.  
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The  
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. second class postage paid,  
Notre Dame Ind. 46556.  

Page 4 THE OBSERVER Friday, January 29, 1971 
Complete text of Park-Mayhew Report 
St. Mary's 'college and the University of Notre Dame have existed side by side for over one hundred and twenty-five years, based in the same religious and cultural traditions, emphasizing the same educational values and reinforcing each other as they respectively provided educa­tion for young Catholic women and young Catholic men. Throughout that period, while there were always examples of irritations, mutual aloofness and some­times invidious judgements of the other institution, the relationships have been close, friendships between the Sisters of the Holy Cross and the Priests of the Holy Cross warm and mutually respect­ing. 
Generations of St. Mary's graduates married Notre Dame graduates, thus stregnthening alumni regard for the two institutions. In some respects the two institutions could simply perpetuate their 
parallel development. However, there are powerful forces operating today to sug­gest the need for changed relationships. 
Colleges and universities do not exist in a vacuum but rather are affected by broad changes and movements in the society and the national educational com­munity within which they exist. Current­ly, American higher education is experi­encing the most radical changes in its three hundred year history; and several of these have particular significance for the relationships between two colleges whose borders are only a mile and a half apart. First, there is the fact that as higher education has become more complex and expensive, autonomous single-campus in­stitutions have proven inadequate to meet the needs of ever-increasing enrollment of constantly expanding heterogeneity. Thus publicly controlled higher education has created state-wide coordinating commis­sions and committees, supra-institutional boards of control and full state-wide systems of higher education governed by a single board of trustees. Privately con­trolled institutions of higher education have found it necessary to engage in many different forms of cooperation, coordination, and even merger. Thus the Great Lakes College Association or the Associated Colleges of the Midwest have banded together to provide enriched edu­cational opportunities and some econo­
mies of operation such as coordinated purchasing. Private institutions in Mis­souri have formed cooperative alliances with the publicly supported University of Missouri for mutual benefits. Case Insti­tute and Western Reserve University have actually merged to strengthen the educa­tional and research efforts of each. In part, these newer arrangements have been established to meet financial or organiza­tional problems; but to an even greater degree they have been set up to provide an enriched program of study for more sophisticated entering students whose needs were increasingly beyond the edu­cational resourses of a single institution. 
Coordination among institutions has been fostered too by the fact that since the end of World War II profound changes in the relationships between the sexes have developed resulting in the gradual elimination of collegiate institu­tions which are limited to one sex. Co-education has become the rule for even bastions of single-sex education like Princeton, Yale and Vassar. While a few institutions intend to persist in traditional styles of single-sex education, a close analysis of them reveals that each exists in a community where there are opportu­nities to students of one sex to relate socially and academically with students of the opposite sex in a nearby institu­tion. For example, Stephens College in Columbia, Missouri, can probably remain a women's institution becauseof the close proximity to the University of Missouri, and of the opportunities both institutions provide for students to attend classes and social events on the other campus. Especi­ally significant has been a fundamental change with regard to appropriate roles and car::ers for women and.the concomit­ant ed uca tiona! experiences required which sometimes exceed the capabilities of smaller institutions. 
The full significance of these changes has been made stridently apparent to colleges anduniversities in the decade of the 60's through the influence of student opinion and the emergence of student power. Indeed, it was student opinion which led Princeton University to open its doors to women just as student discon­tent has brought many institutions to review century-old grading practices, de­partmental hegemony over courses and living styles of students on campuses, in 
residence halls, and in fraternities and sororities. St. Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame cannot remain aloof from the effects of these develop­
ments. 

Apart from this national trend, how­ever, the two institutions themselves re­veal conditions which warrant a reexami­nation of relationships. It has long been apparent that St. Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame are the two most distinguished Catholic institutions of their type in the United States. Father Andrew Greeley once remarked: "As Notre Dame goes, so very likely will go all of Catholic higher education in this coun­try." If national developments have been correctly assessed, then these two institu­tions, by studying and making changes in their relationships now, have the opportu­nity to become a model for other pairs and groups of colleges and universities which are subject to the same national pressures. By undertaking a reexamina­tion of their mutual responsibilities, No­tre Dame and St. Mary's will continue to provide leadership for all Catholic higher 
education. 

Quite aside from the opportunity to 
influence national developments the insti­
tutions need to examine their relation­
ships in order to avoid duplications of 
services and of effort which neither can 
afford at a time of increasing costs and 
restriction of funds. Some of these ser­
vices, such as admissions, development 
and registration, could be made even 
more effective by coordination. There are 
a !soduplications in course offerings 
which, if removed by cooperative plan­
ning, could result in redeployment of 
faculty time, thereby substantially en­
riching programs offered to students. In 
addition, both St. Mary's college and the 
University of Notre Dame have particular 
ec!H~:~tional strengths and uniqueness 
which, if shared, could benefit the young 
people of eacn campus. The students 
would also profit from a clearer aware­
ness on the part of the institutions of the 
desire of contemporary youth to meet 
freely in social and academic settings with 
young people of the opposite sex. On 
both the University of Notre Dame cam­
pus and at St. Mary's College there is 
currently strong pressure for arrange-· 
ments to facilitate this interaction. These 
pressures are great enough, though vary­
ing somewhat in intensity from one cam­
pus to the other, to assume safely that 
some changes will certainly occur. A 
thoughtful response would seem prefer­
able to precipitous action by either one 
or both of the institutions. It would be, 
for example, unfortunate indeed if the 
University felt compelled to take unilater­
al action and become a co-educational 
institution, thus entering into direct com­
petition with St. Mary's. 

An important and pervasive force for 
change arises too from the fact that both institutions have begun cooperation and coordination of some activities with vary­ing degrees of success in the outcome. Understandably these first attempts have produced some friction and some awk­wardness which might of course escalate and force resolution by precipitous means. Bringing about cooperation even between departments of academic men and women can be such a laborious undertaking that in frustration some par­ticipants may decide to stop the effort on the basis that anything is better than this 
excessive concern for trivia. 
At a time when all of private higher 
education in America is in jeopardy as it 
competes with expanded capacity in the 
public sector. There can be real question whether the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College can remain viable in they follow completely independent courses. Should the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College each be­come co-educational institutions, they would be thrown into competitiOn for the same students and the same sources of funds, which would leave one or the other considerable weaker. If the two mounted independent development pro­grams, there is reason to expect donor reticence on the ground that supporting two independent agencies sharing the same traditions, values, and even loca­tions is really misuse of scarce resources. It seems obvious that a liberal arts college such as St. Mary's College needs the resources of a University to provide the education its sophisticated students re­quire; but it is also true that a profession­alized university emphsizinggraduate training, research and preparation for the professions, needs the humanizing in­fluence of a liberal arts college. 
While such argument is persuasive, there are forces and factors operating in the opposite direction, suggesting caution in establishing closer relationships be­tween the two institutions. First among these is the possibility that the differing emphases of an undergraduate college and a university stressing and professional work might be incompatible -incompa­tible with respect to staffing, course offerings and financing, and even overall 
intellectual style. This would be parti­cularly manifest if an attempt were made to fuse a department of St. Mary's Col­lege which stresses liberalizing values, with a department at the lhiversity of Notre Dame stressing professional values. A manifestatioa of this potential incom­patibility is the danger that a smaller institution drawing closer to a larger would lose a valued identity created over a long history. St. Mary's Cbllege has made a distinctive and recognized contribution to the education of Catholic women and it guards its heritage tenaciously and with reason. 

A second factor is related to external support of the two institutions. As they have developed indigenously, they have developed loyal alumni and friends of each institution. There is danger that this loyalty might be endangered if the two institutions were joined more closely. Similarly, since the two institutions re­flect the educational interests of sup­porting religious Orders, there is the possibility that closer relationships could jeopardize that interest. It is at least conceivable that should St. Mary's Col­lege become associated with the Univer­sity of Notre Dame in some organic way, the congregation of the Sisters of the Holy Cross might turn its interests, atten­tion and support to other activities of the Order, thus denying such things as finan­cial security and contributed services of the Sisters to the College and the same phenomenon might happen on the other campus. 
Then, too, there are a number of real and perhaps valid fears peculiar to each campus. There is the fear on the part of some of the University of Notre Dame 
faculty that closer relationships would serve to weaken the thrust for academic excellence which has characterized the history of Notre Dame in the last fifteen ' years. There is fear on the part of some of the faculty at St. Mary's College that a closer relationship with Notre Dame would endanger the sense of community and tranquillity characteristic of ST. Miry's College, which has been such a potent force in the education of young women in the past. There is fear on the part of St. Mary's faculty that alliance with professionalized faculties from Notre Dame would distort the human­izing and liberalizing focus of its curri­culum. And there is fear on the part of some faculty members at the University of Notre Dame that differing depart­mental emphases are so pronounced that any sort of fusion would distort and 
dissipate educational energies. There is also a kind og generalized fear that growing together in perilous times might actually weaken both. And especially on the campus of St. Mary's College, there is the genuine fear that coming together would be detrimental personally and pro­fessionally to many staff and faculty members. 
In addition, there are the myriad pro~ cesses and bureaucratic differences that could prove to be obstacles in closer relationships. Each institution has its own set of regulations regarding student con­
duct and they differ. Each institution provides advising and counseling with students in different ways, and bringing them together would certainly prove vex­atious. Then, too, the respective physical plants were created to serve quite indigen­ous needs. Closer cooperation would imply exploiting physical capacity of both campuses; but the very differences in kind and quality of space would make such exploitation most difficult. This last point can be well illustrated by the 
differing needs for space of the Arts Departments of the two campuses. 
Especially during the past several years the two institutions as we have noted have cooperated extensively in a number of areas. Some assessment of those efforts might be instructive at this point. The coordinating committee, with represen­tatives from the two institutions, and chaired by Father Sheedy seems to have performed well in general and to have accomplished a great deal in facilitating cooperative activities and generating a climate conducive to working together. While some criticism has been leveled at the committee on the grounds that it spent unnecessary time in detail, the fact that it did facilitate departments meeting, it did study potentialities for cooopera­tion it did expand the cooperative ex­char{ge program, and it did bring into existence such things as joint listin~s ot courses, comparable course numbering and the like, is impressive evidence. Fur­
ther, as the more intensive study of cooperative possibilities in setting tne tone and direction of that inquiry and proved a valid testing device for ideas as they 
emerged. 
Generally, there seems to be a much 
more open atmosphere regarding coopera­
tion between the two institutions than in 
times past despite the fears referred to 
before. BoardsofTrustees,alumni 
groups, students, faculty and administra­
tors, who but a few years earlier would 
have been resistant to the idea of close 
relationships between the two institu­
tions, seem to have changed their minds 
and appear quite ready to examine next 
steps. With only a few exceptions, the 
most frequently expressed opinion was 
that the two institutions could never 
return to their previous isolation and that 
the only viable direction for movement 
was toward close and closer relationships 
and greater and greater cooperation. Even 
within departments having individuals an­
tagonistic to the idea of more unity of 
effort, there was acceptance of the fact 
that closer relationships seemed inevitable 
and that after momentary disfunctions 
they could be accomodated. 
Given the differences between the two institutions and the human reluctances and bureaucratic complexities as barriers to an effective program of academic exchange, the results of the cooperative exchange program have been impressive. The figures for the academic year 1970-71 suggest that the cooperative ex­change program is functioning well under relatively free market conditions. Thus, we are informed that over 700 girls are taking over 1400 courses at Notre Dame and slightly over 700 Notre Dame stu­dents are taking slightly over 1400 courses on the 3:. Mary's campus. It is expected that if the curricula at the two institutions are made even more flexible, these numbers will increase slightly and there will be more students presenting themselves to the other campus to take their major work. It is true that personal 

~--~~~~~------~~~~~~~---------~------------~-------------------­
Page 5

Friday, January 29, 1971 THE OBSERVER. 

animos1ties and departmental differences have caused irritation, thus requiring a heavy load of courses in the students' major to be taken at the native campus. A completely free flow of students back and forth has thus been prevented. From time to time advising appears to have been chauvinistic by urging students away from courses on the other campus which were competitive with those offered lo­cally. Further, reaching the position where most courses were eligible for student enrollment from the other cam­pus was arrived at reluctantly and only after considerable effort on the part of the coordinating committee. The fact, however, is that decisions were made and the activity is well along toward becom­ing institutionalized. 
The record of departments joining to­gether and functioning as units is spotty. In Education and in Speech and Drama the results seem impressive, with the combined faculties reflecting a high esprit de corps and a clear willingness to share 
resources and to combine for appropriate emphases. Several, however, have not either wished to or been able to function as a unity for a variety of reasons. The departments of History and Music are simply illustrative, although several de­partments reflecting a desire to cooperate also point up fundamental educational differences. The Art Department at Notre Dame, for example, sees one style for itself, whereas the Art Department at St. Mary's perceives a different mission. 
Given the inately threatening character of an inquiry which could affect the destinies of two institutions, and their personnel, the amount of overt anta­gonism and resistance to change seems to have been quite modest. There are people on each campus who don't like their counterparts on the other. There are instances of lack of professional regard and there seems to have been a normal amount of picayune behavior and fault­finding; but virtually so one seems so violently opposed to change as to wish to jeopardize the entire inquiry. A much more frequently encountered pheno­menon was the belief that greater co­operation was desirable and that it was feasible ~but that nothing would or could be done about the matter in the absence of pressure from above or from outside the particular unit. Testimony was re­ceived from a number of departments or organizations that after some initial joint conversations nothing much had hap­pened or, indeed, seemed likely to hap­pen until a general policy directive from the central administrations of the two institutions were issued. One joint meet­ing of two departments in the same field, held in October, 1970, was the first time that the two departments had come together in the memory of those present. 
Student leaders on the two campuses seemed well disposed to work together for the mutual benefits of both. Some of their plans and studies reflected not only great co operation but considerable sophistication as welL Limited public opinion polling, as well as impressions from interviews, suggest that the two student bodies would welcome much closer relationships in the future. There probably is a slight difference in emphasis in this judgment at Notre Dame and on the St. Mary's campus. The Notre Dame men seem much more concerned with having a larger proportion of women on the Notre Dame campus than was true of the women's institution with respect to men on its campus. 
Some bureaucratic vexations exist, of course. St. Mary's girls feel slighted when they are denied equal access to recre­ational facilities on the Notre Dame campus and Notre Dame officials in some. offices feel that the University is carrying a disproportionately heavy financial bur­den in such cooperative ventures as joint registration. Differences in food services on the two campuses have produced some feelings of irritation; and differences in student personnel policies have generated occasional feelings of frustration, irrita­tion and threat. 
At the administrative level, while there 
were obvious individual differences, the 
experiences of the past several years have 
suggested still further cooperation and 
these possibilities have been welcomed. A 
few administrative officers on each cam­

pus appear somewhat reluctant to en­University, a viable and reasonably com­vision future developments, not so much prehensive undergraduate program design­from dissatisfaction with earlier experi­ed primarily for women. ences as from lack of time and interest to After examining all available options 
examine thoughtfully and openly any of we believe that St. Mary's College should a variety of alternative directions. join the University of Notre Dame as a Through campus visits and studies it is separate and distinctive entity operating clear to the consultants that a number of 
within the larger University framework. possibilities for the future exist and Within such an arrangement, St. Mary'sshould be examined carefully. The first of 
College would adopt the official name of these, though quite unlikely, would con­
"St. Mary's College in the University of sist in a return to conditions as they were 
Notre Dame" and would concentrate on at the beginning of the 1960's when there 
an educational program primarily design­was little formal cooperation between the ed for Eventually, the two
women. cor­institutions, and each pursued its own porate entities of St. Mary's College and destiny without conversation or coordina­the University of Notre Dame mighttion with the other. Events seem to have merge through obtaining a new Charter 
moved too far to make this a distinct from the State of Indiana, and through possibility. More likely would be a de­creating new Fellows and a new Board of cision by the University of Notre Dame, Trustees which would legally be so consti­in response to student pressures and tuted a~ to project the interests of the educational needs, to become a co-edu­two supporting Orders. At that time (and cational institution, cbnverting some of it should be stressed this is by no means its undergraduate residence hall capacity imminent) perhaps I 0 Fellows would be (possibly one of the new residence halls) from the Notre Dame side, six from St. into a women's dormitory. Such a move Mary's side, and six selected by those would result initially in a decrease in male sixteen. For the immediate future, how-enrollment since the University could ~ ever, the two institutions can function hardly create new residence facilities coooperatively while still retaining sepa­
given the present financial climate. Were rate corporate identity, and the separatefeminine enrollment provided in this way, interests of the sponsoring communities. and were the University at the same time If this fundamental change proves to curtail the cooperative exchange pro­
acceptable to the two Boards, a number gram, as would seem likely, St. Mary's 
of other reccommendations for Board College could go in several directions. It 
action should b~ considered: could also become co-educational and 
I. The Boards should annou!lce in a 

enter into direct competition with the joint statement their intent to implementUniversity of Notre Dame. This would the new relationship between the two seem to be unfortunate if for no other institutions, as speedily ·as possible. 
reason than the greater public relations 2. To that end and with advice of value of the Notre Dame name which 
counsel the Boards should move to create would give the advantage in recruitment joint memberships on each Board with up clearly to the larger institution. Or, St. to five members of each Board nominated 
Mary's College could continue as a by and from the Board of the other women's college, accepting, if inevitable, 
institution. a cutback in enrollment to perhaps the 
3. In particular, the Finance Commit­six-or seven-hundred student leveL A 
tee and the Educational Policy Commit­drop in enrollment or a drop in quality of 
tee of each Board should include at least student at St. Mary's would seem to be a 
one member of the other Board in order 
result of a Notre Dame decision to to provide consistency of financial plan­become co-educationaL Such a prediction ning and management and clear udner­is based on an estimate of the number of 
standing of educational objectives. girls who attended St. Mary's because it is 4. The two Boards ·should make provi­close to Notre Dame and who would like sion through their standing agenda items to receive a Notre Dame degree. to hear reports of significant decisions 
Since cooperative efforts have been 
taken by the other Board. A similarity in satisfactory, another option might be 
the times and place of meetings of the simply to perpetuate the status quo. Men 
Boards and their Executive Committees and women do take classes at the other 
would facilitate this important exchange. campus; some departments do work well 
5. The Boards should agree to priortogether, and some professors are able to consultation on the of
l) selection a teach courses at the other institution. 
President for either institution, 2) on Thus far the problems of balance of 

major financial or academic changes. 3) payments has not become particularly on changes in existing recruitment and troublesome and some would therefore personnel policies, 4) in major budget prefer this alternative. Friction and irrita­allocations or 5) in relationships with tion are acute, however, in a few areas other institutions. and the financial matter of balance of 6. The Boards should approve the 
payments must be faced at some time in designation of the President of St. Mary's 
the future. Hence, almost any definition College as a vice president in the Univer­of existing conditions cannot be expected sity of Notre Dame. to last. More plausible would be an 7. The Boards should appoint, upon arrangement by which the two Boards of the recommendation of the Presidents, a Trustees made even stronger statements coordinator, responsible to the two presi­
regarding cooperation than they have in 
dents, to implement the increased cooper­the past, and through administrative fiat 
ation of both instituitons. At the invita­required some services to be definitively 
tion of the respective Boards the coordin­combined. Such an alternative would 
ator would report to the Boards, separate­envision ·perhaps a joint registration office 

ly or jointly, on his activities. but separate management; a combined 
The success or failure of joining the Education Department, but History De­two institutions in a new relationship will 

partments each proceeding independently largely on Coordinator
rest the who 

Yet another alternative is some form of should be a person of recognized profes­organic change which could be manifest sional competency having high admini­in any of several different formulations. 
strative and diplomatic abilities. In gener­One would be a simple absorption of St. 

al, this Coordinator should have deriva­Mary's College by the University of Notre tive power from the Boards of Trustees Dame which would operate St. Mary's as 

through the Presidents over several mat­part of an extended physical plant to 
ters: 

provide capacity for students. The St. 
I. He should be intitled to improveMary's campus could then become a 
existing academic and administrative co­Lower Division campus for the Universi­
operation with the right to bring repre­ty, or it might be the principal undergrad­
sentatives of the two institutions togetheruate campus for work in Arts, Letters and 
to settle differences. Science, or a campus housing some rela­
2. He should therefore be empowered

tively samll professional schools, such as to obtain necessary financial planning, Law and Business. Such a conception educational and personnel data from the would, of course, be repugnant to the relevant offices of each institution. 
faculty and administration of St. Mary's 
College and would very likely therefore 3. He should be empowered to exa­
be rejected by the Board of Trustees and mine services necessary to both campuses 
by the Congregation of the Sisters of the like Counselling or Registration and re­
Holy Cross. It therefore seems axiomatic commend locations for principal and 
that if there were to be an organic change brllnch offices. 
which would result in greater fusion of 4. He should be charged with identifying effort, such a change would have to new areas for combmea ettort ana snouJa insure that St. Mary's College would be therefore have easy access to the Presi­able to offer, in cooperation with the dents of the·two institutions. 
5. 
To this end he should be charged to study departmental relationships, to sug­gest reasonable ways of cooperation to examine budgetary support and to take unresolved controversy directly to the Presidents of the two institutions for solution. 

6. 
He should have the power to exa­mine such innovative educational con­cepts as the experimental college, and after consultation with the committees of the two institutions recommended to the two Presidents and Board of Trustees, that such an educational experiment or others come into existence for a limited number of semesters subject to later evaluation of the faculties as to its place in the regular offerings of the institutions. 


Using such critieria as efficiency of operation, the needs of the two cam­puses, rights of individual faculty mem­bers or staff, and contributions to the long-term cooperation of the two institu­tions, the Coordinator should devote con­siderable attention to following adminis­trative matters: 
1. 
The registrar's offices and the admis­sions staffs of the two institutions should become single units operating with a unified budget contributed proportion­ately by the two institutions and possible making use of a branch office. A branch office should be maintained on each campus but the central location for each function should be placed where most convenient and efficient. Personnel from each campus should always be represent­ed in the joint operation, and the coordi­nator should have power to approve all changes in personnel within the joint budget. For such offices, as for others, selection of personnel should be deter­mined by years of service and by capacity to insure that the interests of both institutions are thoroughly safeguarded. 

2. 
Psychological services and counsel­ing should also be created as a single entity with the location of the two probably on the Notre Dame campus but with a branch office at St. Mary's College, in charge of a person holding a joint appointment in St. Mary's and Notre Dame. 

3. 
When the University of Notre Dame completes its contracted-for expanded computer capacity, computer services for both institutions should be combined. This may require several years to accom­plish because of contractual obligations of St. Mary's College to St. Joseph's Hospital; but in the long run it would appear wise to bring these together. 

4. 
For a time, since the University of Notre Dame provided its own food ser­vices and St. Mary's College contracts with Saga Food Services, these may have to function separately. However, the Co­ordinator should try, in one way or another, to bring prices so into line that students from one institution can eat at the other simply by using a meal card issued by his or her native institution. 

5. 
Since the heads of the two security forces seem to work well together, their future cooperation could be_ assumed in developing a joint plan which would make the security forces into one organi­zation. 

6. 
It seems imperative that the two Development offices should have the clo­sest possible relationship so that all devel­opment campaigns could be devised to strengthen the finances of both institu­tions. 

7. 
For a time, a joint committee, per­haps of students and administrators, on Student Personnel seems desirable, which would be able to coordinate activities but still maintain essential differences consis­tent with the traditions on the two campuses. 

8. 
Similarly, the religious life on the two campuses might at the beginning best be the concern of a joint committee rather than a fused or integrated campus ministry. 

9. 
The Coordinator would also want to bring about unification of catalogs, publi­cations and other forms of public com­munication which seem appropriate. 


A major part of the efforts of the coordinator will be to effect appropriate arrangements between academic depart­ments for the curriculum. As a general rule, departments from the two institu­
(Continued on Page 7) 


Page 6 



ROMA'S NEW HOURS 
By Popular Demand 
on Fridays and Saturdays OPEN TILL 4 A.M. 
Pizza, Italian-American Food 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT TEL 234-3258 219 N. Michigan 
10% DISCOUNT WITR T_qiS COUPON 

Make ROMA Your Choice 
UELIVERY ANU CARRY OUT 
THE 
Friday, January 29, 1971 


Abortion arguements rebuted 
(Continued from Page 1) 
that era pointed out the opposi­tion to abortion and contracep­tion. St. Thomas and St. Augus­tine called abortion homocide and the Early Church prohibited abortion in a "very absolute 
sen~;e." 
It was in the 1900's that the Church decided that the fetus had a soul and they returned to the absolutism of the early Church. Pius IX decreed that any abortion caused excom­munication and this was re­
affirmed by Pius XII and 
Vatican II. 

"The point I'm trying to make is that the Church has been consistent in condemning abortion, it is just that the application has been restudied and re-evaluated," he remarked, The application has always varied, but the consistency has remained." 
Prof. Rice closed the session with the legal ramifications of abortion. 
"Presently, the trend in law is towards recognizing the child in the womb as a human being," Rice said. "In California, 97% of the abortions are performed under the mental health clause. This is a sham. This is taking a life for a lesser concern or for convenience. It's killing for convenience. Innocent life is given the benefit of the doubt. You can't ki\1 the child until you're sure without a doubt that he is not a child or not alive." 
Rice then compared the abortion movement to the Nazi extermination of the Jews. 
"This is the basic principle underlying the Nazi extermina­tions. We are moving into an era of compulsory abortion and compulsory killing. If you don't believe me, you're kidding yourself. We've just gotta stop it. If you can kill a child for being too young or too deformed, you can kill someone for being too old, too poor, too stupid, too black, too radical. You know three years from now, you'll be reading about some old terminally ill man screaming to the doctor to kill him, to relieve his misery. Yes, that's where we're headed," he stated. 
After explaining the four methods of abortion, Rice began speaking of the ties between abortion and welfare. "It's very difficult to get people excited 
::~bout  abortion  because  too  
many  deep  inside  themselves  
think  that  abortion  is  the  

solution to the problems of welfare and poverty in this country, but they're not. It's still murder," he commented. 
Badin Cinema 
to reopen 

The Badin Vintage Cinema, idle for the first semester of this year, opens the l 971 season this weekend in the Badin Hall Lower Level with the Marx Brothers flick, "Room Service." 
Showings will be Friday and Saturday at 7:30 and 9:30P.M., and Sunday matinee perfor­mances at 2 and 4 P.M. Admission is 7 5 cents. 




Don't Miss the Coolest Thread Sale At 

2210 MIAMI STREET F'"CNE 289-3012 

Pants 2So/c off Shi rts 20o/c off Sweaters 33o/c off Outerwear 2So/c off 
Open Daily 12 .. 9 PM Saturday 10 .. 6 PM 
~-----------------------------------------------------------~--­
Page 7 

Friday, January 29, 1971 THE OBSERUM 



The Park-Mayhew: continued 

(Continued from Page 5) 
tions should merge with the clear expect­ation however that some departments, beca~se of pec~liar circumstances or per­sonnel will not move to the unified organization immediately. 
As departments join together, specific provisions for safeguarding rights of facul­ty members in each institution should be insured. As a general rule, joint depart­ments should be represented by faculty from each institution, proportionate to the undergraduate enrollment in the sub­jects normally taught under the auspices of that department. This proportion is suggested as a possible model which may prove inadequate when tested empirical­ly; but there should be some such general principal which will insure that neither institution gain an untoward numerical domination in a joint department. For fields in joint departments not combin­ing, each institution must be insured the right to maintain an adequate indigenous program. Thus there could be for exam­ple a combined Biology Department which would offer some things in com­mon but which would also offer distinct­ly different biological science programs 
on the two campuses. Both combined and 
discrete departments should also be en­
couraged by the coordinator to create 
new experimental programs which could 
be utilized by the students in both Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's. Whether specific 
departments are merged eventually or 
not we recommend that each department 
sho~ld invite a member of the corres­
ponding department in the other institu­
tion to be a voting member of the 
department as soon as possible. 
The coordinator will need to spend 
considerable effort to monitor program 
development, staffing policy, and the 
like for both joint and discrete depart­
me~ts, with the clear understanding that 
he may use his access to the Presidents to 
resolve controversy. 
The success or failure of joining St. 
Mary's Cbllege to the University of Notre 
Dame ultimately will depend on the 
goodwill, the mutual respect, .and the 
shared values of men and women on the 
two campuses. However, that agreement 
can be powerfully reinforced by a num­
ber of stipulations, agreements, and self­
denials which are suggested here for 
action by appropriate authorities: 
1. 
As a general rule, faculty and staff at each of the two institutions should have their statuses preserved once the union of their activities has been accomplished. This means that tenure will be recognized as well as service leading toward tenure. Also, as a general rule, salary, tenure provisions and the like should become comparable, with one major exception: faculty members who concentrate their efforts as undergraduate teachers should not be expected to compare for tenure or salary purposes with professors who con­duct research and direct graduate stu­dents as well as teaching undergraduates. Here a pluralistic reward system may be required for a time . 

2. 
St. Mary's now employs a propor­tion of men on its faculty. We urge on Notre Dame that women be appointed to that faculty with a view to providing at both institutions a group of distinguished women professors. 

3. 
Academic degrees will be awarded by the institutions in which students matriculate. Thus a student who matricu­lates at St. Mary's would receive a degree in the name of St. Mary's College in the University of Notre Dame, which would be signed by the President of Notre Dame. However, students would be enti­tled to take majors offered by either institution, though obligated to complete the degree requirements of the institution in which they matriculate. Thus a student at St. Mary's following the course of study prescribed by the University of Notre Dame for a degree in Architecture, could receive a Bachelor's degree in Ar­chitecture from St. Mary's College in Notre Dame. Similarly, a Notre Dame student concentrating in Elementary Edu­



on increasingly responsive to the needs of acation at St. Mary's would receive a their own sexuality and the impact society radically changed. The effort toBachelor of Science degree in Education them of changing relationships and bring these two institutions together willfrom the lhiversity of Notre Dame. changing social mores. 
be great; the frustrations encounteredConflicts arising should be subject to the Important in the thinking of students marked, and feelings of anxiety occasion­jurisdiction of a joint institutional coi?­about the two institutions is a desire for ally intense-but the effort does seemmittee which may be an ad hoc commit­greater recreational opportunities to be worthwhile.

tee or a standing committee. together. The University of Notre Dame Several mechanisms are suggested and4. The effective and more complete could go a long way toward accommoda­an approximate timetable to be reachedopening to students of the educational ting student feelings by offering women probably within five years. That time­resources at both institutions would be equal opportunities for the golf course table might consist of these elements: facilitated by overlapping memberships and the Rock to those accorded men. St. 
Janary to March, 1971 Widespread

on the Committees on Instruction at both Mary's could reciprocate by accepting dissemination and discussion of this re­institutions, which could be undertaken perhaps a somewhat higher cost on food port on the two campuses with perhapsimmediately. to be borne by the institution while the present Coordinating Committee col­In addition to and on behalf of the allowing Notre Dame men greater access lecting and collating judgments.
institutions, several self-denials should be to St. Mary's eating facilities and by January, 1971 Formal statements bystated explicitly by the Boards of Trus­encouraging appropriate and welcoming Presidents of the two institutions totees of the two institutions: social and recreational facilities for both undertake no major changes or major1. The University of Notre Dame will sexes. 
administrative appointments withoutmatriculate no female undergraduate stu­The union of the two colleges as joint consultation until after the twodents in a degree program without the . envisioned in this document will be viable Boards of Trustees have had an opportun­concurrence of St. Mary's College (it only if each campus can create and ity to respond formally to this report.

might however, and for example, adm_it maintain a distinctive educational mission March, 1971 The two Boards of Trust­students for summer school work m while at the same time contributing ap­ees meeting with the administrations andnon-degree courses). propriately to the educational mission of consultants should discuss thorougly the2. St. Mary's Cbllege will offer no the other campus. The times seem right implications of the report and, if theygraduate or graduate professional work for St. Mary's College to create a new and agree, take these steps: leading to a degree above the Bachelor of distinctively responsive educational pro­1. Disband the present CoordinatingArts or the Bachelor of Science Degrees gram which will prepare women for con­Committee and appoint jointly the Coor­without the concurrence of the Universi­temporary life. There are many elements dinator whose functions have been des­ty of Notre Dame. which might enter into such a complex, cribed earlier. 
3. St. Mary's College will matriculate several of which seem worthy of com­2. Each Board move immediately to no men students to degree programs (it ment. The small campus enables the appoint Board Members representative ofmight, however, admit men to summer institution to emphasize a sense of com­the other institution.
school work of a non-degree credit char­munity and continue to express a Catho­3 The University of Notre Dameacter in such fields as Education) without lic posture in many different and mut~­Boa;d should appoint the President of St.
the concurrence of the University of ally reinforcing ways. The small campus IS Mary's College as Vice President o~ th~Notre Dame. significant to the extent that it can create University of Notre Dame. The two msb­4. The University of Notre Dame will a sense of community, a task which tutions might wish to consider appointing not offer undergraduate degrees in Educa­should command the serious attention of several relatively young people to assist in tion or in such other undergraduate fields individuals from both institutions. No the details of bringing about the union as may be determined by the joint Boards woman attending 'college today can es­proposed here. Several of the graduates of of Trustees. cape the need for a vocation to be the Class of 1970, who have worked long5. Each institution will offer new de­practiced at several different times during on this problem, might be appropriategree programs only after combined appro­her life. Thus St. Mary's College might candidates.
val of the Faculties and Administrations properly expand its concerns in teacher of the two institutions and ratification by preparation and move into the health-re­the Boards of Trustees. lated fields in a major way. Further, the 
Duplicate

college, because it is small, might embrace Because the two institutions have his­
more wholeheartedly educational exper­torically been single-sexed institutions, 

Brldae

imentalism by engaging in such things as and because student desire for new colle­
increased inter-disciplinary work and giate relationships between the sexes. is 
using the newer media in effective but 
Every Monday 7:30 

such a potent force in the present m­
humane ways. It might also accept the 
Trophy Game 2/1/71

quiry, the matters of residence living and Fine and as of its
Performing Arts one 
Flanner Card Room

the relationship between the sexes pose a 
major emphases, althou~h artistic effort sensitive set of problems. At this time, no 
should be in evidence on both campuses1formal plan is being suggested regarding 
for the educational maturing of both 


Kepler

women residing on the Notre Dame cam­
student bodies. In a similar vein, St. pus or men on the St. Mary's campus. Mary's should probably never consider However, if in the future such a plan were 

Motor S•les

eliminating all science instruction, for to be deemed advisable, it sould be increasingly modern women should be 
'63 Corvair auto. $395 

clearly reciprocal -that is, St. Mary's 
'63 Chevy 4 dr. auto. $495 '65 Mustang 6 cy. stick $695 
aware of the rationale, the approaches,

would provide male residence units and 
the potentialities, and the limitations of 
'66 Chevy 4 dr. 6 cy. auto. $895

Notre Dame would provide female resi­
the Sciences. dence units. However, it seems clear that Several other general principles should both institutions should respond to the obtain. It is assumed that eventually 
All cars sold with lifetime warranty'... Top prices paid for

generalized need of youth, for a variety tuition and fees at the two institutions 
used cars

of ways by which men and women can will be the same. It is also assumed that 
2306 Western Ave.

interact socially, intellectually, and aca­the two institutions can move immediate­Phone ~ 288-3250
demically. This implies that both institu­ly to grant full faith and credit to courses 
tions sh0uld contrive eating and recre­earned at the other institution. ational places, hours and facilities which Burton Clark, diseussing the distinctive will encourage the healthy mingling of college, identifies elements common to 
the two sexes and will produce a tone in 
the building and maintaining of what he 

which social and intellectual interaction calls "an institutional saga."
between the sexes is considered normal and highly desirable. This is especially "First believers collect in the faculty significant for Catholic institutions, in and gai~ the power to project their many of which students will have at­cherished ideals and practices. Second, 




"A TRIUMPH!" 
-Judith Crist, New York Maguine

tended both elementary and secondary features of the curriculum determining schools in isolation from the other sex. everyday behavior reflect the express the 
At the present, there are probably saga. Third. a social base of external good reasons why different standards believes provides resourse, including mo-_ exist on St. Mary's campus and the Notre ral support and interests a certain kind ot Dame campus, in regard to such things as student in the college. Fourth, the stu­student hours, open or closed use of dents develop a strong subculture that residence rooms for visitors. It seems significantly incorporates the central idea likely, however, that something approxi­of the college. Fifth, the saga itself as 
Julie Christie mating an eventual single standard will ideology, self-image and public image has evolve as long as it can maintain suitable forceful momentum. Personnel defense, 

lnSeaNhr/

regard for individual privacy and does not program embodiment, supporting social force individuals into conforming to an base, allied student subculture, ideolog­GNS01'jf undesired new standard of personal con­ical force-these are the essential carrying duct. Anticipating this evolution, St. mechanisms." Mary's Cbllege might consider such things lt would seem that St. Mary's College as allowing open rooms on weekends, or and the University of Notre Dame could some other modification of its present be on the verge of developing a new and regulations. Both institutions might wish different saga for joined institutions to emphasize newer educational programs which would be able to perpetuate the to help both men and women understand two distinctive traditions yet become 
Friday, January 29, 1971

Page 8 THE OBSERJJER. 

Irish replay State 
Notre Dame, Ind. ---Notre Notre Dame registered a split ively. Regan has scored nine Dame's hockey team, seeking to last weekend at home with goals while Noble, winger Ian 
Just one week ago this desk produced a column commenting on the progress of the Notre Dame basketball squad up to that point. Some felt that the criticism of the Irish was deserved and possibly not really as cutting as it could have been. Others disagreed. They felt that ND was playing as well as could be expected given all of the circumstances present (e.g., schedule, long vacation, etc.). 
Since then a few things have changed. ND whipped "the nation's best" by a decisive margin and then they resembled champions themselves when they blew a respectable MSU quintet off the floor in the second half Tuesday night at the Convo. 
That brings Notre Dame to its present situation. The record is an impressive (though not perfect, by any means) 10-4. The Irish must travel to Chicago Stadium tomorrow night for a match-up with one of the strongest teams in the Big Ten. The Irish have had a history of poor showings in the Windy City (e.g., Illinois two years ago, Northwestern this past December), but this is certainly not a game where a letdown can occur. If the Irish can get by the Illini they will have a full week away from the grind to nurse any minor aches and to unwind a little from the pressure of the past week. 
A victory here is a key factor in determining if or where the Irish could get an NCAA Tournament bid. Say ND whips Illinois and the Illini go on to have a successful season in the Big Ten. Now the NCAA selection committee would have to think twice before bumping the Irish to the Midwest Regional rather than permitting them to remain in the Mideast. 
Johnny Dee would probably say that this is a lot of conclusion jumping, that his team may hit a sour streak and only win half of their remaining games, that Notre Dame may not even get a bid. 
This writer just can't see that happening. Of the remaining II games after Saturday, only five could truly be considered tough. These are Creighton, Villanova, Fordham, St. John's and Dayton. A twenty-win season (the Irish must take 10 of 12) should almost guarantee a bid to the national tourney. An undefeated finish from this point would put ND on the road to Houston via Columbus. 
Before thinking of Houston, Columbus or even Villanova in The Palestra everyone should turn their attention to Chitown tomorrow night. This is a game of increasingly large proportions. The Irish are aware of this. The last few times they were aware that a game had great importance the results were devastating. A similar performance in Chicago will do nothing to hurt Notre Dame's chances for post-season activity. 

Austin closes in on Nuemonn 
NEW YORK (UPI) -When 1953-56. Artis Gilmore does his think he's Kermit Washington, American the best there is. University's 6 foot 8 sophomore, 
Gilmore's "thing" is rebound­ranks second in rebounding with ing and the 7 foot 2 Jacksonville 21.2 and Julius Erving of the center is the leader in that cate­University of Massachusetts is gory for the 20th straight week third with 20.5. according to figures released Mississippi's Johnny Neumann 
Thursday by National Collegiate continues to lead all major Sports Services for games college scorers but his lead has through Saturday Jan. 23. been steadily shrinking. A 
Gilmore has had an uninter­month ago Neumann led Notre rupted reign as the nation's lead­Dame's Austin Carr by 9.1 ing rebounder since he joined points a game. This week the the Dolphins last season. margin is 4.2 points a game with 
The 240 pound senior has Neumann scoring at a 42.1 clip snagged 22.9 rebounds per game and Carr hitting for a 37.9 aver­and scored 24.5 points a game to age. 
lead the Dolphins to a 12-2 Bill Smith of Syracuse is the mark. new leader in field goal percent­
In career rebounding, Gil­age with .629 while Greg Star­more's 22.4 is ahead of the rick of .Southern Illinois, on 54 major college record of 21.8 set of 60 for .900, is the new pace by Marshall's Charlie Slack in setter in free thr~w percentl!&e. 
play Western Collegiate Hockey another WCHA power, North Association teams even
on Dakota. The Irish won the open­terms, will receive another severe er in 6-5
overtime, before a test this week against potent record crowd of 4,113, and then Michigan State in East Lansing. 
dropped a 7-1 decision on Satur­The Friday-Saturday series 
day. Michigan State, meanwhile, will start at 7:30 p.m. in the 
split with Minnesota at home MSU Ice Arena. winning 84 and losing 4-3. ' Notre Dame will enter the 
The series will matchup two series --the seventh of the season of the finest goalies in collegiate against WCHA competition -­hockey-Him Watt of Michiganwith an overall 8-8-1 record that State and Notre Dame's Dick 
includes a 4-7-1 grade card Tomasoni. But the Spartans also against WCHA teams. 
have two explosive centers in The Irish split a series at home Don Thompson and Gilles earlier in the season against the Gagnon, who accounted for 61 Spartans, winning 4-3 after drop­points through the first 16 ping a I 0-5 contest. Since then games. Wings Randy Sokol! and Michigan State has proceeded to 
Jerry DeMarco are also in double figures in goals scored. 
compile an overall 11-7 record Notre Dame's first two cen­
that includes a 6-6 league ledger 
ters, Paul Regan and John No­--good enough for the first 
ble, also lead the Irish in scoring division. 
with 23 and 22 points respect-



Flood wonts to be free 
NEW YORK (UPI) -The U.S. Second Circuit Court of Appeals teserved decision on baseball's reserve clause Wednesday after arguments over Curt Flood's suit to overturn the clause were heard for 90 minutes. 
Presiding Judge Sterrs R. Wat­erman, sitting with judges Leon­ard P. Moore and Wilfred Fein­berg, listened to arguments by both sides and then announced: "We will reserve a decision on the reserve clause." 
The three judges were listen­ing to an appeal of the decision handed down Sept. 12 by judge Irving Ben Cooper in favor of baseball. 
Flood, who is represented by former U.S. Supreme Court Jus­tice and Ambassador to the United Nations Arthur Gold­berg, began the suit shortly after he was traded by the S. Louis Cardinals to the Philadelphia Phillies in late 1969. Flood asked Baseball Commissioner Bowie Kuhn to be released from the provisions of the reserve clause so he could negotiate with other clubs but permission was denied. 
Flood, who sat out the 1970 season, has since been traded to the Washington Senators and has signed a contract estimated at $110,000 to play with them in 1971. Both sides agreed Wednes­day that Flood's decision to play this year will not prejudice his case in the appeal of Cooper'~ 
N.D-. FROSH, SOPHS, JUNIORS KNOW HOW TO TYPE WELL. Want steady SS for the rest of your N.D. days? 
CALL SCOTT 
3-6 pm  T:lursday 283-6637  
10-11 pm  Thursday 287-9367  
8-10 pm  Friday  287-9367  

Do not cell, cfter Frida) 
Williams and No. 3 center Phil Wittliff all have eight goals apiece. 
Wittliff was outstanding in the 
Friday win over Notre Dakota, collecting two goals and two assists, including help on the winning goal by Jim Cordes with just 31 seconds gone . in the overtime. 
"We showecl fine determina­tion and hustle on Friday and we'll have to get this type of play again this weekend if we expect to win," said Irish coach Lefty Smith. ­

No Irish drafted 
After two complete rounds in the National Football League draft there has been no one from Notre Dame selected. 
Jim Plunkett, the Heisman Trophy winner from Stanford, was drafted first by Boston. 

decision. In arguing Flood's case, now­
Regardless of how the appeals ever, Goldberg contended that a court rules the decision will be ''player is tied for life" under appealed to the U.S. Supreme the reserve clause and added Court. Baseball has enjoyed im­"Flood wants to be a free man munity from federal antitrust for which there is no Sllbsti­laws since 1922. tute." 


Just for the Record 
by Mike Pavlin Like the Irish football eleven, the Notre Dame cagers figure to garner a few records this season. It is likely, however, that most, and perhaps all, of the records set will he individual marks. Most of the team records were taken care of by last season's high-scoring quintet. 
INDIVIDUAL SEASON 1.) Points Scored -948, Austin Carr 5 29 2.) Scoring Average·-37.2, Carr 37.8 3 .) Field Goal Attempts -681, Carr 402 4.) Field Goals Made-376, Carr 212 5.) Most Points By a &nior-556, Carr 529 
INDIVIDUAL -CAREER 1.) (New Record) Most Points, Austin Carr 1988 2.) (New Record) Field Goals Made Carr 799 3.) (New Record) Scoring Average, Carr 33.7*** 4.) Field Goal Attempts ··· 1636, Carr 1493 5.) Field Goal%-.485, Carr .535 6.) Free Throw Attempts (three years) 543, Carr 477 7 .) Free Throw % -.804, Carr .818 8.) Games Appeared In -85, Collis Jones 70 9.) Consecutive Games Appeared In. 81, Jones 70 ***This _is_ already a new record because even if Carr appears in the 12 remammg games on this year's schedule plus five NCAA tourney 
games ~the. maximum) and is held scoreless in each one, his average then Will still be&t the previous record. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t live EntertC'in ment t 
t Wed·. to Sat. Dancing t 
t t
rht
t t

Mil<lldO 

"THE ENTERTAINER TO THE MIDWEST"
t t 
525 North Hill Street
t t
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46619 
t t  Attended Parking In the Rear  t t  
t  t  
t  THURSDAY  NIGHT  IS  UNIVERSITY NIGHT  t  
f  f  
t  P..'veryune 's W£:/come  t  
f t  Happy Hour 5-9 Daily All beverages $.60 during Happy Hours  t t  








