
Vol VI No 54 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Hesburgh makes the announcement: ND and SMC 'going separate ways ' 

Boycott Slated 
' . ... . . . '·
•-· '"!wt;___... _.· .... 
.... WlCOM
;_;:fit TO SCRlkt 


( 
It's very cold outside In South Bend... but temperments are 
' 
heated today. Sure hope 
there's a change In the 
lather. ) 

by De Ellis A convocation of 1300 studnets last night, predominately from St. Mary's, agreed to boycott classes today. The decision came after an hour long meeting with St. Mary's Acting President Sr. Alma Peter, C.S.C., on the collapse of the ND-SMC merger. The Students asked for the help of the Notre Dame student body in pressuring the St. Mary's Trustees into reversing their half of the decision not to merge with Notre Dame. Another convocation was called for 11 a.m. today in O'Laughlin Auditorium, scene of 




for Today 
last night's meeting. 

Sister Alma's meeting, held against a background of boos, cheers, and hand-clapping, during which Sr. Alma once threatened to walk out, saw considerable student anger over both the Goard's decision and the manner in which it was made. 
Two policemen were seen outside the auditorium during Sr. Alma's speech. 
Student Government Secretary Nancy Christopher argued with Sr. Alma that while SMC is run on the principle of Community Government, neither the students, the faculty, nor most of the administration was consulted in the decision . 
"What grounds, " she asked, "Do we have to place our trust in this college?" Another student asked, "Who is manipulating the merger?" 
To this, Sr. Alma answered, "To my knowledge no one is manipulating it." 
Sr. Alma argued that the Board of Trustees had made a mistake in ever agreeing to the merger with Notre Dame. When asked by a student what good that did the students at this point, she answered, "What harm does it do?" 
<.;ontinued on page 3 

by .J. Abowd 1ue University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College officially announced yesterday that "it is not possible to accomplish complete unification at this time." The joint statement released by Sr. Olivette Whalen, C.S.C., chairman of the SMC Board of Trustees and Edmund A. Stephan, Chairman of the ND trustees cited financial and administrative problems as the principle obstacles to the scheduled merger. The present arrangements will continue through next next semester. All changes will be effective Sept. 1972. Included in the joint statement was the announcement that ND would begin to admit female undergraduate students for the 1972-73 school year. "Since we began trying to be one institution Wt: have made enormous progress in things we do together. We have built a great number of bridges that we hope to keep moving," Rev. 
Theodore M. Hesburgh C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, said in press conference immediately after the statement was released. 
"For the time being," he continued, "we are going our separate ways, going many ways together, and hoping to deepen this unification, which I seriously believe will someday come to pass." 
250 female undergrads will probably be admitted directly to Notre Dame next year, Hesburgh said, but he added that as many as 400 women might be admitted. 
The president estimated that over a four year period the female undergrad enrollment would stabalize at 1,000 with no increase in the size of the student body. 
All the women will be housed on-campus in a single dorm, which has not yet been selected. Approximately 150 of the predicted 250 places will be given to incoming freshmen. 
The decision to admit women 


The Board of Trustees has reversed their decision for merger. The St. Mary's students and faculty were not consulted before this decision was made. The Chairman of the Board of Trustees, has refused to justify this decision. Consequently, the students of SMC demand: 
1. Justification for this decision -the immediate appearaQce of the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees before the students and faculty. 
--documentation for the decisions, i.e., minutes of the recent Bosrd meeting, Ernst and Ernst financial report. 
2. Reversal of this decision 
3. Appointment of outside arbitrators to resolve differences bet­ween the two schools concerning the merger. 
As an initial demonstration of student solidarity in rejecting the Board decision, the students have resolved to boycott classes on Wednesday, December 1, 1971. A convocation will be held at 11:00 
a.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium; em embers of the Board of Trustees, presently on campus and members of the Administrations have been formally invited to attend in order to explain their decision. Specific actions that students cqn take to bring about the reversal of thsi decision will be discussed and adopted. 
Kathleen Barlow Student Body President 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 IIIII111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
directly to ND was made in­dependent of the merger post­ponement. 
"We had planned to do this in any case because we are trying to build up to a total of 2,500 women students counting St. Mary's and our own," Hesburgh said. 
Because of female student interests, Hesburgh predicted that eventually the combined 
Continued on page 8 is "not possible to accomplish time." 

Sr. Alma blames financial. logistic complexities for merger failure 
by Ann Conway Finances and the logistics of merger were the major stum­bling blocks to unification of Notre Dame and St. Mary's according to Sr. M. Alma, acting president of St. Mary's. "There was a comples financial problem,"Sr. Alma stated. "The St. Mary's financial situation has already been reviewed. Notre Dame beeing he larger university that it is, has not completed their study. Indications up to this time seem to be that financially it would be better to hold off the unification. Sr. Alma stated that she was optimistic about the financial future of St. Mary's as a separate institution. "For the past three years St. Mary's has been operating with a good strong black figure and this present year, we are operating in the black. For the immediate future, I see no great danger." The logistics of the merger presented the second greatest problem for unification. Questions of what areas should be taught at St. Mary's, whether 
to move all social sciences to the 
SMC campus, the shuttle bus problem were among those she 
mentioned. "It was just too 

complex to work out, Sr. Alma bo said. 
"I don't think that the decision to merge was made to quickly; but it was not coordinated as well as it should have been with all the details, particularly the financial and business details. These really didn't get started until the endof the summer. 

The halting of the unification will have an effect on many areas of St. Mary's. The Presidential Research Com­mittee will be reactivated to find a permanent president to replace Fr. John McGrath who died June, 1970. The committee stopped work last spring after the announcement of a merger between the two schools. "I don't think that they will have to start all over again," Sr. Alma stated. "The Trustees are meeting on December 18 and I'm sure that this is one of the priorities on their agenda. We have several names of men and women who indicated that they were not ready to come two years ago because of the uncertainty of the future of St. Mary's and I think that they might be interested now." Sr. Alma said that a new president wo~ld probably be found before the start of the 197:.!­73 academic year. 
Continued on page 6 


Sr. Alma: "too complex to work out" 
S AI 
1 • 

r. ma s meetlng, 
l t d d cJs

ycott proposa s u ent eman ...page 3 
...page 2 

~--­
-...----­

Page 2 THE OBSERVER ..Wednesdayt. December 1, 1971 . 
Meeting with students at Farley Hall 





FRANKIE'S
Hesburgh withholds details 
Dinner Special 
by Jerry Lutkus "The chairmen of the one could change any of their 
Chicken, Steak or Perch 
Observer News Editor executive Board of Trustees felt priorities, so they could not get that it would be counter­everything together. "I'm not 
Dinner with Turren Soup, 
productive if we released the going to get into the shell game-­
Salad & Coffee 
University President Re. whys. The Board agreed with they're wrong, we're right. No," Theodore Hesburgh refused to him and we are abiding by that," he said. answer student questions con­Hesburgh commented. "It's easy to see this all as a 
$1.50 

cerning the reason behind the Hesburgh did not agree with ~inister plot but it's not. It's a Notre Dame-St. Mary's decision the idea of a student boycott of two-sided argument. We've gone to stall the unification of the two classes. "It costs $200,000 to open as far as we can and it's not schools, while blasting the this place up every day. It's for agreeable to either side," 
Student Chapter of 
student boycott of classes a!? a one purpose--for education. Hesburgh said. Education is the only thing in the Hesburgh finally ended the 

ASM-AIME 
(Metallurgical Engineering & Material Science) and not get." he had committments as a 
would that people will pay fQr discussion of that point by saying Presents a Lecture-Demonstration on 
The University President "human being and a gentleman" constantly repeated throughout not to lay blame and refused to the meeting that there was no handle further questions on the 


MODERN GLASSES 
blame to be placed over the matter by
cancellation of the merger. Hesburgh continually referred He said that "we are not going to "building bridges" between 
Mr. George W. McClellan 
to take cheap shots at St. NO and SMC. Claiming that we Mary's." . have already built many of 
Corning Glass Works 
"I don't want to place blame," these, he said that it would be Hesburgh said. "We all tried foolish to destroy them. 
Dec. 1, 1971 Coffee & Donuts to Follow 6:30pm Admission Free
very hard to get everything "We have made progress into together. But it didn't work. unification, the actual putting 
Engineering Auditorium Everyone Invited We're confident though that it together of the two schools. We will all work out in time." h~ve made much positive Hesburgh noted that the whole 



Have you heard of 



THAT BEEF PLACE? 

Beef  107 W. Wayne  
Ham  across from library  
Snacks  7  am  -7 pm  

1"-------------·------------~ 
Reminder Mardi Gras '72 Booth Designs are 

due Wed. Dec. 1 I 222 Dillon or 313 Badin 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
·. ':r f ,f
1 · 
'i . :} '• . 
... L • I 
i C rlf i-1 I : 
-:. "' 
,.. 
. ! 
( i;

...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
. ·!. 

@ 
Indiana Bell 
"silly thing to do," last night at Farley Hall. 
Hesburgh spoke before a packed crowd of approximately 250 people in the Farley chapel. The crowd was relatively polite, but intermittant cheering, booing, and grumbling per­meated the atmosphere. Con­tinuing throughout the meeting were cries of "Why? " from the crowd. 
When asked to explain why the merger was cancelled, Hesburgh left it upon "financial and ad­ministrative reasons," refusing to go into further detail. 

action was a "clearing of the decks." 
"It has become perfectly clear that we cannot have now one institution and one ad­ministration. Therefore, we must build as many bridges as we possibly can," he added. 
When pressed further by students for the why, Hesburgh said, "I'm not going to get into a recounting of details. If I do that I'll have to take a stand--I'll have to lay the blame." 
He claimed that Notre Dame had their list of priorities and that St. Mary's had theirs. No 

--~--~-------~ ---~--~---------~--------~---------~
-

Wednesday, December 1, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
'No merger I made official 
Continut>d (rom page I 
Several students, especially freshmen, complained that they had come to Saint Mary's under the assumption that they would bP Notre Dame students and get Notre Dame degrees. 
When Sr.r. Alma denied that the SMC admissions office had ever used that information in recruiting students, three letters were produced. One, quoting from an SMC press release of last year, was sent to the fresh­men before they got to SMC, and mentioned the merger and Notre Dame degrees. Sr. Alma dismissed all three, to a series of groans on the part of the stud­nets. 
Sr. Alma said that she would "put nothing in the way of students trying to transfer from St. Mary's." 
Then she said, "I would advise wuou if you do not wish to stay, not to." And, she added, "I wouder if it would not be a good thing for the majority of fresh­men to return." 
This statement was greeted with cheers. 
Later, the Acting President apologized to the freshmen class for her comment. 
Sr. Alma described three areas of difficulty that slowed down the progress of the merger and eventually led to its demise. The three were fonancial, ad­ministrative, and academic. The financial problems, believed by many people on both campuses to be the major ones, recieved no comment from Sr. Alma. 
She said, "You couldn't possibly understand them. I don't even understand them in their entirety." 
Finally, the discussion settled on the question of the Board of Trustees, with most students wanting to talk to the Board, rather than the Acting President about the situation. 
Sr. Alma recommended that the SMC Studnet Government write to the board and request that they come to campus. 
The next scheduled meeting of the Board is December 18, the last day of final exams for the first semester. 
Immediately after Sr. Alma left, SMC Student Body 
IN PERSON/ · ' 





SHOW 
with the .., · 

PENNSYLVANIANS 
IN CONCERT 
Athletic and Convocation Center Sunday, Dec. 12 

7:30p.m. 

N 0-SMC Students Special discount Prices 
Present Student I.D. at Box OHice Mon .• Sat. 9:00a.m. 
toS:OO p.m. 

President Kathy Barlow took over the meeting, saying that "this is the last straw." 
She complained of three aspects of the situation that were particularlu upsetting to her. First, the fact that everyone on the campus was kept in the dark about the reversal of the merger decision. Second, she said that the students were not being treated like women. Finally, she contended that at the moment, the students were speaking with the wrong person. Miss Barlow said that they sould be talking to the Board of Trustees. 
During the meeting without Sr. Alma, students suggested union with Notre Dame students in the protest. Notre Dame Student Body President John Barkett said that ND students would probably not get to excited about the problem, since they are not affected. 
He said however, that the best thing for SMC students to do would be to keep pressure on the administration. 
"I hope," he said, "that most students at Notre Damen will act as they see fit. Saint Mary's students have a legitimate complaint." 
Student Union Social Com­missioner Don Mooney and WSND SMC News Editor Barb Allen argued that the best course of action would be to start the action and theb have Notre Dame follow, if they were sp inclined. 
Notre Dame Stay Senator and SMC Assembly representative Jim Clarke agreed, saying, "Start a boycott over here, and then go to ND and get the guys to go along. 
The vote for a boycott was near unanimous. 





LBATBBRLTD. 
custom leatherI jeansI sandals moosI bootsI potfery Illsautb main featuring LtJ~ jeans 

Kathy Barlow 

A steering committee was set up afterwards by the Student Government of Saint Mary's. Several faculty members were present and expressed opinions identical to the students. 
Charity b-ball a big success 
The results of the charity· 
basketball game, played the 
Monday before Thanksgiving 
vacation, had h~rtening results 
not only ·for the varsity 
basketball team but also for the 
needy families of South Bend. 
Rod Braye, coordinator of the game, declared the event a success. Businesses in South Bend contributed $475 and $400 was received at the ·'gate. This money was sufficient to pur­chase and distribute 600 turkeys to needy families in South Bend. Inaddition, a panel truck filled with clothing was donated to El Centro, a South Bend organization. Braye termed the game a success, saying "More importantly, I think the families would say it was a succP.ss." 
Page J 

~. ~-----------------------­
Here's power and pep for tired engines!_,____, 
FOREIGN SPORTS CAR SPECIAL PRICE 4 CYL. PLUS PARTS

See us today for our 

$12.95

CERTIFIED CAR CARE 
(6 cyl. slightly higher) 




ENGINE TUN SPECIAL 

• 
CLEAN, adjust ignition points, inspect distributor • SET ignition timing • CHECK compression • CLEAN and INSPECT battery, cables, terminals • ADJUST carburetor, service air cleaner • TEST fuel pump • CHECK crankcase vent valve 

• 
INSPECT cooling system, adjust drive belts 


SATISFACTI VICE 
Phone 

255-4751

liD 


IILIEI.IN 
916 E. McKinley, Mishawaka 
Page 4 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, December 1, 1971 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-Chief, Glen S. Corso Assistant Editor Assistant Editor 
T.C. Treanor All successful newspapers are 
John Abowd

ceaselessly querulous and 
bellicose. They never defendBusiness Manager anyone or anything if they can help Advertising Manager Jim Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle 
they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Business: 283-7 4 71 News: 283-1715 
Answers to a Broken Promise 
"I wonder if it would not be a good thing for the majority of freshmen not to return(to St. Mary's)" -Sr. Alma Peter, C.S.C. 
We wonder if it would not be a good thing for a majority of ad­ministrators not to return to St. Mary's. And perhaps a majority of Notre Dame Administrators, too. A collection of ad­ministrators, trustees and potentates managed to botch a bright and promising merger and ruin academic careers of hundreds of St. Mary's students. Instead of the merger, the potentates sub­stituted a broad comedy at St. Mary's and a melodrama at Notre Dame. 
Sr. Alma was the star of the farce. She, as expected, performed, well in the role. Appropriately, the thing was staged in O'Laughlin Auditorium, which had just finished showing "the Cage." Sr. Alma, primly threatening to leave if the kiddies got too ram­bunctious, several times gathered up her skirts as a prelude to departure until she realized that the threatened departure wasn't particularly discommoding her audience. 
Beyond her choreography, the Acting Head Nun said that the . moppets "couldn't possibly understand" the financial problems i involved in the merger because "I don't even understand them in 
their entirety"--hardly a fair standard; pretended that three letters the SMC publicity mill sent out promising a merger didn't exist; and replied, when asked what good her Monday Morning Quarterbacking on the original merger moves was doing the St. Mary's students, "What harm does it do?" 
A little while later, over in Farley Hall, a real tearjerker was under way as Father Hesburgh played Gentleman and Human Being in refusing to reveal who was responsible for the disasterous collapse of the merger program. In a lecture filled with pitiful generalities, Fr. Hesburgh took time out to sniffle in stentorian tones that after all back in the old days when Notre Dame was so poor they didn't have anybody to darn the students' socks and who would want to hurt such a nice old order anyway. 
The Observer hereby offers to darn any number of Notre Dame socks Fr. Hesburgh would care to specify in return for a con­trolling vioce in the University's long-range policies. 
So that was the essence of a tragi-comedy in two acts: the sock­darners messed up the merger. The question remains: What are we going to do about it? 
Boycott 
A solid, massive action will remind the Trustees and Ad­ministrators of both schools that we're thinking of 'em. It will keep the issue fresh--it'll show the necessary people that the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's student body is aware of the situation and isn't about to swallow it. 
When Sr. Alma suggested that Freshmen leave St. Mary's she inadvertantly indicated a form that action could take. A one-day boycott of classes--at both institutions--would make the potentates massively aware of the fact that the student body wants to add a third act to the dreary two-parter that took place last night. 
Pressure the Trustees 
There are two other courses of action we urge all SMC students to take and take quickly. 
First--get on the phone to Western Union or go over to the office at the ND administration building and send a telegram to Sr. Olivette Whelan asking her to convene an emergency meeting of the SMC executive Committee of the Trustees. Several hundred such messages might get the good nun upset-upset enough to call the meeting on a week's notice. 

r

LA WJ\E IIIU of AI\AIUA WOVlO HAV£ 8EfN PI\OUO • 
Second--get on the phone to your parents today; tell them that a group of myopic, incompetent nuns are throwing away your chance for a Notre Dame degree. Ask them to send a telegram to Sr. Alma protesting the decision and telling her that they are not spending 3700 dollars a year to send you to an institution destined to becoming a third rate finishing school. 
The latter action will inform the good sisters that if they persist in their obstructionist tactics they will be inviting an assault on St. Mary's Holy Grail---the dollar. 

Negative Recruitment 
But if the student body really wants to put the hurt on the nuns, St. Mary's student government ought to develop a negative recruitment program. The College's official propoganda mill sends lackeys out to tell what a great place St. Mary's is and will be(how it's going to merge with Notre Dame, etc.,); why can't representatives from student government to out and tell the real story? 
That'll be a presentation destined to drive away any sane prospective St. Mary's student posessed of an IQ in triple figures. If St. Mary's is determined to become a finishing school for morons, they ought to get the job done and be damned. 
Yes, the real story will do the job. For it's not a particularly good story. Not a particularly Christian story -full of broken promises. Just a disengeneous and miserable and cheap story-a typical ND-SMC production. 


·******************************************** 
Staff 

Night Editor: Gene Slason Lost Souls at Niles: T. C. Treanor, Mike Baum, and (in a return engagement) Jim Donaldson, Joe Abell Office Help: Corso, Ellis, Lutkus Nite Controller: John Brady 
I. enjoy your sleep, Maria? 

Wednesday, December 1, 1971 
THE, OBSERVER Page 5 
bill benrztn 

college o plan underway-white knight may get the shaft. 
College students across the country are being asked to support a movement to try to ridicule irritating and obnoxious television commercials off the air. 
CROC was formed in September in Minneapolis, and now has more than 1,000 members from coast to coasl The organization hopes to improve the quality of television commercials by calling at­tention to the bad ones, at the same time recognizing some of those which CROC members • feel are good. . l1.:\l 
Main activity of CROC will be a ballotmg by ~ t£: members in the spring to name the "I 0 Biggest ~ U')~ CROC's of the Year"-the 10 worst TV commercials '"~l 
of the season. Croc award winners will be ~  
nationally publicized.  't"  
Membership in CROC costs $1.00 , and all college  
student members get eight "Your Commercial is a  
CROC" protest cards to send to companies spon­ 
soring bad commercials to let them know they may  
be heading for a CROC award; a membership card;  
a Let's Get CROCed Together" button, and a  
"Crush Revoltingly Obnoxious Commercials"  
poster, plus the right to join in the spring voting.  
To receive all CROC material and get on the  
spring ballot list, students sent $1.00 to College  
CROC, Box 1022 C, Minneapolis, Minn. 55440.  
College students also are being asked to par­ 
ticipate in a "CROC art" contest to create a new  
poster for the organization. The "CROC art"  
competition is open to any college student and has a  
first prize of$! OO.OOfor the best poster capturing  
creatively and imaginatively the goals of the  
organization. Second prize is $50. and third prize,  
$25.  
Judges for the "CROC art" contest will be Jay  
Belloli, assistant curator, Walker Art Center,  
Minneapolis, Mrs. Howard Kaewer, former lecturer  
at the Minneapolis Institute of Arts and instructor of  
art history and culture at the University of Min­ 
nesota, and Evan Maurer, assistant to the director,  
curator, The Minneapolis Institute of Arts. Posters  
should be done in black and white. Choice of media  
and size is open, however consideration should be  
given to possible photographic reproduction and use  
in ·'\ 17 x 22 inch size.  
~ntries should be sent to CROC art, Box 1022CA,  
Minneapolis, Minn. 55440, postmarked no later that  
Dec. 15,197 Jilnd arriving no later that Dec. 20,1971.  
Winning entries become the property of CROC and  Co-ed CROCeteer -Pegl Hjer mstad, University  
other entries will not be returned unless ac­ Minnesota student,  shows  her  new  CROC poster.  
companied by a postage paid, self addressed en­ Pegi, a senior maj oring in  theater,  has clipped her  
velope. Decision of the judges is final. Winners will  "Let's Get CROCed  Togeth er" b utton to her earring.  
be notified by January 31,1972.  

russell baker 


the tinkling fun skies 
Washington--American Airlines is putting piano that Americans can be persuaded to go to the zoo sing a third round of "Boola Boola," a panickedbars aboard its 747 jumbo jetliners. This gives it a any day except Sunday. 
elephant burst out of the safari section closelymomentary lead in the fierce competition among The social director of one of the nation's most 
pursued by a hunter with hand-held movie camera. 
airlines to be Number One in sky fun, but the lead amusing airlines believes that the typical air A business executive at the bar, assuming that hewill not last long. traveler wants something more sophisticated than was about to be photographed singing "BoolaA competing airline is already flying tests with a zoos on Monday-through-Saturday flights. 
Boola" at a piano bar with a woman not his wife by747 that has not only a piano bar, but also a zoo. For this reason he has had his airline ex­a detective in the employ of somebody in hisThere are still some problems to be solved with the periementing with safari flights. On these, part of company who wanted to ruin him, threw his drink atzoo before regular scheduled flights begin. The the airplane is turned into a jungle. Passengers who the hunter.
pumas, for example, become irritable on a diet of want more active fun than they can find at the piano It missed and struck another drinker, a man whoairline food and have to be taken into the airport bar stalk the animals. 
always became sullen and bellicose at piano barsevery other day to eat at the employes' cafeteria. 
No shooting is permitted, of course, because it 
becuase the piano players never knew his favorite The reptiles, particularly the larger snakes, te~d would disturb passengers who are watching the songs. He announced that he would whip any man into wriggle free of their seat belts after the captam 
movies. Instead, the hunters photograph their 
the plane and threw a punch that landed on thehas put the seat-belt sign on, and consequently quarry with hand-held movie cameras. 
passing elephant's kneecap. 
several have suffered bruised coils during rough 
There are many bugs to be worked out before this 
The elephant, persuaded by the piano-bar singing landings. concept will be ready to be advertised. One day last that he was in the hands of Yale men who wouldOn a test flight the other day, a crocodile that had week, for instance, there was an awkward scene have him stuffed for scholarly display if the planeescaped from the zoo turned up at the piano bar, 
aboard an experimental safari flight at 33,000 feet 
was allowed to land at New Haven, charged through inside the piano. Nobody would have known it was over Paducah. 
the "G" movie section, the "R" movie section, thethere if the piano player, who had had three mar­
The flight had been in the air an hour and a half, 
smoking section, the nonsmoking section and intotinis, had not made such a botch of "Down Among and everything seemed to be going happily. The the cockpit.
the Sheltering Palms," the crocodiles's favorite "G" movie and the "R" movie were both under The pilot, surmising that the elephant would kick song. way~he nonsmokers had been successfully the piano bar to splinters unless he was delivered toThe crocodile's heckling cries inside the piano 
segregated from the smokers, who were halfway 
Burma, agreed to the beast's demand.
prompted a stewardess to lift the lid. Fortunately, through their first packs. 
The passengers, none of whom had ever been toU.S. sky marshals surrounded the piano im­
Back at the piano bar, women of incredible 
Burma, though it was the most exciting new conceptmediately and seized the crocodile for questioning. 
desirability were striking photogenic bar poses with 
in sky fun since macadamia nuts, but the airline's The airlin industry will be watching closely to see businessmen of irresistible expense accounts. The executives agree that it would be very hard toif zoo flights succeed. Because they require a great 
hunt had been under way in the jungle section ever 
duplicate on four flights a day.
deal of room, zoos would give the airlines an easy since the captin had turned on the "Safari" sign. 
Does anybody remember, "Coffee, tea, or milk."
solution to the problem of filling up their 747's. It was, in short, an idyl aloft until, just at the Many airline executives, however, do not believe moment the people at the pi'ano bar had decided to _ 
~--------------------~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ -­
6 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, December 1, 1971 
~~~--------------------------------~~~~~~~~--------------------=== 
Administration hit at meeting 
Noconsultation :SMC faculty members 
A hidden wound festering for some time among faculty at St. Mary's College was reopened Monday after Mother M. Olivette Whalen, Chairman of the Board of Trustees called the attempted merger with Notre Dame a mistake and apologized at a faculty assembly. 
The wound, according to the consensus of nearly 80 faculty members who remained in Carrol Hall after Mother Olivette's statement, is caused by St. Mary policy makers who allegedly have no concern or need for faculty viewpoints or interests. 
1 
The impromptu meeting, which lasted nearly an hour after Mother Oliviette and SMC President Sr. M. Alma Peter left, resulted when the Trustee chairman refused to answer questions in the interest of fairness to the audience. She urged the assembly to wait until after December 18 when the poard will meet to specifically discuss the merger problems. 
In the meantime, Mother 
Oliviette urged the faculty to 
have their Academic Affairs 
Council representatives bring 
their views, goals, and objectives 
for SMC to her or Sr. Alma, so 
that they could present them to 
the Trustees. She also urged 

consideration of potential can­didates to guide SMC in "a new and prom1sing era." Finances only one reason 
Naming finances as only one of several problems, and not the primary reason, Mother Olivette said the merger was "far more complex than anticipated," and that "it was a mistake to go foreward until basic negotiations took place and agreements were reached. 
Sharing both disappointment 
and relief with the faculty, she 
said that prior to Florida last 
year(when both Trustee Boards 
met to discuss the merger) it was 
a "time of crisis," because "very 
frankly we feared competition," 
which she said will take the form 
of approximately 300 coeds to 
be admitted to Notre Dame. "We 
have now faced it and no longer 
have that fear," she said. 
Mother Olivette then asked for 
recommendations through ACC 
for new directions, a move which 
she said possibly should have 
been made years ago. 
Prompt exit questioned When Mother Olivette and Sr. Alma were halfway up the aisle to the exits immediately after the statement, Sr. Alma was emphatically asked by English Professor Elisabeth Noel if it meant that there would be no question session. Sr. Alma replied that it was not her assembly, directing the question to Mother Olivette. Reminded of the request to work through her ACC representative, Miss Noel continued, "I think you owe it to us to tell us precisely what pattern to expect," and that the faculty should not be expected to accept this action without consultation. Another faculty member added that a mistake had been admitted, yet the faculty is expected to wait until "another set of fiats" is handed down. Mother Olivette again requested the faculty to wait until after the upcoming Trustee meeting, reiterated that faculty and students would have the opportunity to transfer to Notre Dame if academically ac­ceptable and that faculty con­tracts would be mailed about 
Sr. Alma on merger 
Continued from page 1 drawn up a joint letter which will Sr. Alma agreed that the be sent to these students along 
Mary's after Notre Dame begins indicate whether they wish to 
to accept women would probably be considered by the Admissions 
go down. "But," she said, "we Committee at Notre Dame, Saint 
have always turned away at Mary's, or by the Committees at 
least 2 to 1. I have talked to the both schools. 
director of admissions and there Degrees for students currently 
are presently on file 600 ap-enrolled at St. Mary's will be 
plications. considered on an individual 
The high school seniors who basis. Students will be allowed have applied to the University to petition for a Notre Dame through St. Mary's will be given degree in those areas which St. a choice. The directors of ad-Mary's does not offer degrees missions of the two schools have such as engineering or ar­
\t::::::::::::~=~~~"i:::::~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::tl:c,..h_i_te...c_tu_r_e_.---~----1 
···· ····· ·ltelp ~ C~ren.





I I, ·. ~~~~=:;· 
·:·::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:: L._______________, 
BETHEL COLLEGE 
FINE ARTS c/o Dr. Tweed 
For Verdi Requiem By G. Verdi 
300 Voice Chorus Elkhart Symphony Orch. Outstanding Soloists 
Pauline Tweed; Sop-ano Patricta Shook, Nlezm..Saprano 
DNight Weldy, Tenor
Sat. Dec. 4 8p.m. 
John Wellh, Be•



Goodman Auditorium Students $1.00 Adults $2.00 
February first as usual. She also said before leaving that she f10resees no drop in enrollment or quality of SMC students on the basis of applications . 
As the administrators left Paul Messbarger, chairman of the Faculty assembly, took the podium hoping to read a per­sonal, prepared statement to Mother Olivette. However, disorder in the auditorium prevented him from doing so. 
Order restored, Messbarger prefaced his statement by stating that a floor microphone had been requested, but was vetoed by Sr. Alma. 
Calls for new administration 
In the prepared statement, which is expected to be published and in faculty mailboxes this morning for those who want to sign it in support of Messbarger, the English chairman says, that no rational opinion can be made on the merger diecision because there is no way to get all facts of the negotiations, and even if there were the!'e is no way to establish their truth. 
According to Messbarger, time for "radical change" has arrived including a new ad­ministration that can keep the confidence of the faculty and students, and be legally and corporately distinct from the 
~~~~~-of Sisters of The Holy 
Those who remained for the discussion agreed on several 
points in addition to agreeing
tnat no trust can be placed in the -:: 
SMC power structure. Among SMC the points are: 
"Zorba he Greek" will be shown Wednesday and Thur­sday, December 1 and 2, at 7 and 
9:30 pm. in the Engineering Auditorium. Admission is $1.00, and all proceeds will go for the benefit of the Pakistan Relief Fund. 
--Notre Dame is responsible to an undetermined degree, for the lack of communication surrounding the merger. 
--faculties and student body of both schools should hear the other side's viewpoints 
--only a strong, united effort by SMC faculty and students with a high degree of publicity will help change the present decision making process at SMC. 
Alumnae apologize One faculty member, Sr. Elana, who attended St. Mary's 15 years ago, said the basic philosophy has not changed and that the decision makers are "committed to one view of reality." She said it is main­tained out of desire to control, 
particularly  the  lives  of  the  
students.  
According  to  Sr.  Elana,  the  
school  has  a  history  of  

"traumatic events" because of the basic philosophy, "all things will pass," and "we will prevail." has remained. 
Noting that she has sought and recieved "very direct answers" from high Notre Dmae ad­ministrators on the merger, Sr. Elana, as an alumnus and faculty member, apologized in a choking voice, for Mother Olivette's refusal to entertain any questions. 
2 Legal Proofs of Washington--American Age Always Airlines is putting piano bars _:a::b:oa:_r~d~its:_7~4:7~ju:m_::bo~j=et:::l:in~e:rs::!__~~~~R~e~~~~~~~~ 




SISTER FANNY 

-ND PRE-CHRISTMAS RETREAT 
an experience in Christian sharing 
This Saturday, Dec. 4 9 A.M. -Midnight For info. call Fr. Roger (5389) or Tom Stella (1168) or Mary Gail Peterson (4494) 
Sponsored by SMC · ND 

~~~~~~~ns~St. ~a~~~~~~~L~=========~~~=========~=m=~=s=M=~=~=rl=~==========~ 



Feel lost, 
out of it • Find it at 
The 


Hideaway Lounge 
this week, we give you ... 
''The Seoul Sisters'' 
Monday thru Saturday 8 pm till 3 ant 
Wed. Ladies night, Ladies Free, Guys $1.00 122 W. First Street Downtown, Mishwaka 
Wednesday, December 1, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
'Digger' debuts versus Michigan 

by Vic Uorr '74 72 collegiate basketball season, tonight is short on both size and 
Last spring, when Richard Phelps is faced with possibly the experience. Phelps' starting "Digger" Phelps was named as toughest 26-game schedule in the lineup--the same one he used in Notre Dame's head basketball nation, and he knows all too well last week's varsity-freshman coach, everyone was pleased that every team on that schedule game--will consist of five with the appointment, and will be trying to turn his sophomores. Bob Valibus (6-2, 
everyone was pleased that "dream" into nightmare. And 175) and Tom Hansen (6-1, 170) Phelps had finally reached his tonight, the Michigan Wolverines will be the guards, while the trio "dream" of coaching at Notre will be the first to try. of Tom O'Mara (6-6, 185), Gary Dame. The team that the Irish coach Novak (6-7, 190), and Chris 
But now, on the eve of the 1971-will send against the Wolverines Stevens (6-6, 190) will make up 
the ND front line.
Mike P a v lin ::;:;:;:;~;~~~;~;:;~;~;~;~~~;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~:m;~;~;~;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;m;;;~:;:~:;:;m~@~t;~;~: 
When--and if ·-they need it, the 
starters will be spelled by a
The Graduate View fairly seasoned trio of juniors. John Egart (5-11, 165), the only 
returning letterman on the team, 
~~;tt~~~;;;;;;~;;~;;;~~;;~;;~~;t;~;~;~~~~~~~t;~~~~~~~~~;~~~;: Just for the Record will fill in at either guard slot, 
while Jim Regelan (6-8, 195) and 
It is difficult to assess this year's football performance since there Don Silinski (6-3, 190) will stand was no great victory to cap the season as was the case last year. 
ready to relieve the starting
Despite the failure to fulfill Sports Illustrated's lofty prediction, no 8-2 forwards. 
record can ever be disappointing. Suffice it to say that the Irish, with 
Phelps' efforts to revitalize the 
inexperience at the qb spot, adopted a ball-control game dependent Irish baskedball program suf­upon field position and defense; unable to play catch-up ball, they fell fered a pair of serious setbacks victims in comeback failures. The only really galling thing is that Ara earlier in the year. First, cap­Parseghian will probably miss the Top Ten for the first time since tain-elect Doug Gemme! frac­coming here. 
tured his leg in a motorcycle 
The unhappy finish mustn't obscure the many fine individual per­accident, and was lost for the formances, especially among the underclassmen who'll be returning. season. Then, little more than a Cliff Brown continued to improve steadily. With he and Tom Clements, month ago, 6-8 center John the Irish qb picture has cleared up since last spring. John Cieszkowski Shumate was stricken with and Larry Parker return next season as the team's 2nd and 3rd thrombophlebitis, and he too was leading rushers behind the departing Bob Minnix who gained 337 lost for the year. But now, with lost at least until January play either man-for-man ofyards. Parker recovered from a rather dismal start to fight his way up the addition of Willie and Mike because of knee surgery, the zone." 
to the first team with several impressive performances. Townsend to the team the Irish Wolverines figure to be a potent "Yes," continued Phelps,The kickers will return off fine seasons. Walk-on Bob Thomas is in have achieved a good deal of bunch. They will be led of­"Brady will be out for our game,the record book already; punter Brain Doherty tailed off from a siz­balance. 
fensively by big Henry Wilmore, but they will still have five guyszling first half to finish with a 38.9 yard average per kick. Ample back "We're as ready as we're who Phelps labelled as "one of out there who are pretty good.
up support remains in the persons of Brown and Scott Smith. going to get," said Phelps, as he the finest players in the coun­They're a well-coached team,For the first time in several seasons, the Irish exhibited first class looked forward to the opener try." 
and an experienced team. And I return performances. Departing Mike Crotty averaged 9.0 yards on with the Wolverines. "We've The Wolverines won't lack think Johnny Orr has done a goodhis 33 punt returns. Youngsters Gary Diminick (28.4) and Greg Hill been working for six-and-a-half anything in the way of board job with their talent."
(21.0) provided excellent kickoff returns. weeks now, and the kids have strength, either. But while Michigan is ex­
Mike Creaney and Parker will return as the 2nd and 3rd leading pretty well learned our system. receivers. Tight ends are supposed to catch mostly short stuff, yet We're going to stress defense, Ernie Johnson, who Phelps perienced, Notre Dame is not. Creaney's two-year yards per reception mark is 19.6, a testament to his and our defense will have to be describes as a "mobile 6-8 or 6-The Irish have been practicing ability to catch deep and medium-range throws and to get the tough our offense. But I know the kids 9," should give the Irish front for amonth-and-a-half, but their 
line all it can handle. only game experience came lastextra yards after the catch. are ready. They're just waiting 
Overall, the Irish offense gained only 3,329 yards this fall, almost now. They want to play." "They (the Wolverines) are a Monday, in a scrimmage against 1,800 yards below last year's total. Notre Dame's lack of offensive But the team that Phelp's physical team," admitted the freshman team. The varsity output showed up in the point totals where sophomore kicker Bob youthful squad "wants to play" Digger. "They have great size, came out on top in that game, 62­Thomas, who converted five of nine field goal attempts and 21 of 22 against will provide the Irish and good rebounding strength. 52, but they did appear
not extra points, led the team with 36 points. Thomas' total was the lowest with a stiff challenge, to say the They'll try to play inside, but overpowering. Still, Phelps was since Frank Budka paced the '63 squad with 24. l~ast. Even without the services they'll run on us if they get the not discouraged. On defense, mention should be made of junior Ken Schlezes who of 6-10 Ken Brady, who has been chance. Defensively, they can "That was just one of those played part time yet led the team with four interceptions, and junior nights," said the Irish coach. "I Jim Musuraca who tied a record by recovering five fumbles. mean, Tom O'Mara doesn't The Irish continue to graduate outstanding seniors with professional usually go one-for-eleven. We
Wrestlers openpotential. This is especially true of co-captains Walt Patulski and Tom were getting the good shots, but Gatewood. Walt has several defensive records to his credit and it the ball just wasn't dropping. would be difficult to find many players of his caliber around the And there were Michigan scouts

tonight
country. there, so we weren't showing 
As Snow replaced Kelly and Seymour replaced Snow, so Gatewood The Notre Dame wrestling Pauw U. in the auxiliary gym-much of our offense, and we has replaced Seymour as the all-time Irish receiver. Tom holds most team opens its home season nasium of the ACC. weren't showing any of our of the m~jor rec~rds, despite catching only 33 passes this season. He tonight at 6 p.m. against De The Irish grapplers, comingoff defense. The team that played in came to hfe late m the year and caught seven passes off of ~uperstar L d WCHA an 8-9-2 season, have the that scrimmage was not the Tommy Casanova, one for a TD. He deserves to be ranked With Terry ea S potential to be one of the best same team that you'll see out Beasley and Johnny Rogers as the best around. • • teams in Notre Dame history there against Michigan . 
. Dee~ bac~s Claren~e Ellis and Ralph Ste.paniak end their care~rs }fl SCQftflg despite their youth. Only on~ system,
"The kids know our tied with 13 mterceptions, good enough to tie for second place behmd senior, captain Ken Ryan, is and they believe in it," he Tom McDonald (15) ..In yards retu~ned, ~alph 079) r~n~ 3rd, included in the starting lineup. repeated. "But we have to get Clarence (157~ 6th. Elhs•. an All-Amencan, figures to go high m the Six sophomores and three fresh-them to execute. To get five guys draft along with Patulskt and Gatewood. men will wrestle for the Irish to execute properly is the name 
Workhorse punter Doherty has already qualified for a spot on the tonight in addition to Ryan of the game." all-time list by kicking over 50 times in his brief carreer. Brian's 38.9 ' · But despite his confidence in figure is good enough for 4th place. Ryan, fifth on the all time them, Phelps admitted that his 
The following are new records, unless otherwise indicated. Notre Dame win list with 34 team would need help in their TEAM--GENERAL victories, is a standout per­opener. "We've got confidence former in the 150 pound class. in ourselves," he said, "but we
I) Most Consecutive Games Scoring: 62 
Freshman Mike Fanning, who at 
need the confidence of theTEAM--SINGLE GAME 6'6, 250 wrestles as a students, too. The student bodyD. Yards Interceptions Returned: 185 heavyweight, also promises to be has to be behind us 100 percent.
2) (record tied) Interceptions: 7 one of Notre Dame's most ex­This season is going to be a test3) (record tied) Interceptions for TO's: 2 citing grapplers. Fanning was for the team, sure, but it's also4) (record tied) Field Goals Made: 3 the runner-up in the Oklahoma to a test the
going be forTEAM--SEASON 
state tournament last year. 
students. To me, a good home I) (record Tied) Interceptions: Ken Schlezes 3 wrestlers onThe starting 10 crowd is worth 15 points2) (record tied) Interceptions for TO's: Mike Crotty and Ralph 
the 1971-72 team boast a winning anytime.Stepaniak 1 background. In high school, they "We may lose by 20 one night,
3) (record tied) Field Goals Made: BobThomas3 
accumulated a 403-94 won-lost but if we do, the students have 
INDIVIDUAL--SEASON record. got to be back out there pulling
l) Highest percent PAT's Made: Thomas 95.45 percent (21-22) The first home match has been for us the next night. It won't be 
2) (record tied) Tackles for Minus Yardage: Walt Patulski 17 dubbed "Freshman Night at the as easy as going out to cheer for 3) (record tied) Fumbnles Recovered: Jim Musuraca 5 Matches," in honor of the fresh­Austin Carr." 
4) (record tied) 2-pt Conversions Made: Bob Minnix 2 man class at Notre Dame and St. Tipoff for tonight's home 5) (record tied) 2-pt Conversions Passes Made: Cliff Brown 2 Mary's. The St. Mary's girls will opener will be a 8:00pm, and the 
INDIVIDUAL -CAREER also be invited to oin the com­varsity contest will be
-

l) 
Passes Broken Up: Clarence Ellis 32 petition by entering the "Hot preceeded by a frosh game--also 2) Tackles For Minus Yardage: Patulski 40 Soph winger Eddie Bumbacco's Pants" contest, which is being between ND and Michigan. The 3)Pass Receptions: Tom Gatewood 157 15 points, on nine goals and six sponored by the Wrestling Action freshman game is scheduled to 

5) 
TD Pass Receptions: Gatewood 19 assists, is tops in the WCHA. Club. Awards will be given. get underway at 5:45 pm. 


Page 8 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, December 1, 1971 
SMC students meet, list demands 
Stoltz, Scholastic co-editor and an upperclassman, said that this The Saint Mary's Boycott was an unrealistic goal.
steering committee met last Other students said that theynight and drew up a rationale could only feel security in theirand list of goals and demands for education if there were aaction against the SMC Board of merger.
Trustees. The text of the The steering committeestatement, distributed to Notre Dame students early this morning, is printed on page one 
Hesburgh
today. 
At the meeting, students and faculty members expressed their Continued from page 2 anger at the method of decision­progress and we must preservemaking process, since the wishes as many bridges as possible," he of both were supposedly not commented. 
consulted. The President of the 
Faculty members were University said that Notre Dame especially upset at the refusal of is perfectly willing to giveActing College President Sr. degrees to St. Mary's girls, but Alma Peter, C.S.C., to answer he countered by saying "It's not 
questions at her meeting with our decison." faculty yesterday afternoon Notre Dame will accept 125 
Freshmen at the meeting all women transfers next year, not favored merger as the goal of the necessarily from St. Mary's. protest, although Mary Ellen They will go with the 125 fresh-
Hesburgh breaks the news 
Continued from page l female student bodies would make the College of Arts and Letters nearly 50 per cent female. Major changes in the financial arrangements between the two schools were also revealed. Both institutions will now operate on a "pay as you go basis" for all unified operations. This includes the co-es class program, which will be continued. Even though students will continue to pay tuitions directly to the college of university to which they were admitted, each school will charge the other an agreed upon rate for the co-ex credit hours, Hesburgh an­nounced. Continuation of administrative and academic unifications which have already been initiated will be evaluated individually by the administrations of both school based on recommendations of the inter-institutional teams. Four inter-institutional committees composed of representatives from the students, faculty and ad-· ministration of both schools have coordinated the merger since it was announced last May. Hesburgh praised the work of 
these teams as he announced the 
they will continue to meet. 
"I have thought as a general principle that whatever that can be done together more economically than separately we ought to do together," he added, noting that "Whatever can be done to provide a better education for men and women we ought to do. As far as we are concerned we are completely open to many possibilities." 
The question of ND degrees for present St. Mary's students is not fully settled. 
Any St. Mary's student currently enrolled in a program that leads to a degree available only at Notre Dame will rna tricula te through Notre Dame, Hesburgh released. 
"As far as Notre Dame degrees in other areas I think that's a matter for open discussion. As far as we're concerned, we're open to it but I don't know what St. Mary's would think about it because I haven't had a chance to talk with them. I do want to make it clear that we are amenable for qualified girls to get Notre Dame degrees and this is a matter for discussion with St. Mary's," Hesburgh said. 

L 
H 
A p 
p 
s 
p 
E D 

Schlitz and the Senior Bar Present 
Sat: A Christmas Party 
with -Chapped lips -An Appearance by Santa Claus 15~ Schlitz Malt liquor on Tap 
Bar Opens at 7:00 
Also: 1 free drink for anyone dressed as a Reindeer 
divided into ten groups to run the Students will also try to get all 
protest. Student Government Saint Mary's women to apply for 
and related people were put in transfers and to have transcripts 
charge of the subcommittees and sent out to other schools 
plan to begin work immediately. The entire steering committee, 
Picketing is planned today at including fourteen women, will Madeleva Hall and probably meet today at 10 am to discuss Moreau and O'Laughlin. strategy. 




in Farley Hall 
Notre Dame. 
Hesburgh noted that a dorm will be set aside for them on this campus, but he said that not a particular dorm has been chosen as yet. 
When questioned about the finances, Hesburgh spoke of the cost of the co-exchange program. In the past years, he claimed, the co-ex program has come close to balancing. At least, he said, the imbalance was never too great. Next year, however, the two institutions will be making up the imbalance by paying each other off on an institution to institution basis. 
The students in attendance pushed Hesburgh by claiming that tuitions would climb because of this, but the President claimed this would not be the result. 
Students questioned the timing of the announcement. Hesburgh said that they hoped to have the faculty merged by December 1 and have them under one budget. It became clear that this was not• possible, so, Hesburgh ex­plained, it was necessary to tell the faculty that the unification was not coming off. 
Hesburgh again emphasized that "We would merge tomorrow if all the details would be worked out, but we're stalemated. We have gone flat out for coeducation because this is what the students want and this is what we a"re trying to do." 
A final question was forwarded by a student who claimed that St. Mary's would die in four years. Hesburgh answered that "that is a prediction. I don't know if it's true or not. Only time will tell." 
CLASSIFIED 
NOTICES 

Christmas Loans up to $150. Pay back January 20. Morrissey Loan Fund Closes Dec. 10. 
Call Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt's and Info concerning Viviane Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line, Available only through indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP LESSONS 
NEED MONEY? Morrissey Loan Fund 
Basement of La Fortune 11:15-12:15. 
FLYING CLUB. There will be a meeting -120 O'Shag. 7:30 Wed. 
Dec. 1. 
The Dairy Queen of Skokie is still making MAGIC BOTTLES. Stop in 416 Augusta-5106. 
Ski your ass off in Aspen. Jan 8 ­
15. $189 everything -rd. trip flight from Chicago Condominium with kitchenettes, Iitt tickets. Sign up Dec. 1 7:30 O'Shag-104-40 places available. DeadlineDec.5. INFO: 
6875. 
Fantastic offer to ski the Alps during Christmas vacation -$270. Includes everything. Call 8853. 
Paperbacks BBought and Sold. Underground Newspapers. Pandora's Books, N.D. & S.B. Aves. 
Need research aide for your term paper? Call Steve 234-6873. 
LOST 

i lost a man's gold ID braciet that has a very special meaning to me. It says Dave on the outside and Renee on the inside. Please call 7835. 
AD RATES 
Word' ld<•. 2rJd Jda 4dil 5da 1-10 .65 .9S 1.15 1.35 1.55 
11-lS 1.00 l.SO 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.70 3.85 4.45 26 30 7.10 3.1S 3.95 4.15 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.35 6.15 36-40 2.80 oi.10 5.25 6.1S 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 l.~~ ~ 20 6.50 7.80 8.95 

T11110 keys with 425 on them near Moreau at SMC. If found, please call Jim -1817. 
FOUND 

Found: 1973 Class Ring. See Dean, College of Science. 7738. 
N.D. ring at Convo. Call Mark 8670. 
WANTED 

Ride Needed to University of Illinois Dec. 3. Teresa 4374. 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: Champaign Gold GTO. '67, Air cond., Power steering and brakes. 'His-Hers' transmission, tinted glass, black interior. Call and make bid. 289-7433. 
Unique personalized stationery, the perfect Christmas gift for that special someone. Inquire by call 1167 or come see our vast selection at 611 Grace or 315 South Regina. 
Philco, portable B-W TV. 18", 1969. 255-8849. 
For Sale: Fisher stereo amp, FM stereo tuner, Garrard turntable, Large Bass-Reflex speakers, $200.00. Cali Tim 272-5374. 
Fo~ Sale: 1970 VW squareback; rei 1able; AM+ FM radio recent tune-up. 41,000 miles; new front tires. Ca II 234-4957. 
FOR SALE: Men's figure skates size 10, hardly used; 8648. ' 
Great Christmas Gift idea Complete Line Waltham Watches and Jewelry. Wholesale Prices Cali Tom 3575. 
FOR RENT 

T11110 room apt. kitchen, share bath. December, second semester. 288­0247. 
Single room for rent second semester. Good hitching. Call 233­6534. 

-ATTENTION­
PAUL'S 


SHOE REPAIR 
Rear of Main Building 
-HOURS­Daily 7 A.M. to 6 P.M. 
Saturday 
8 to Noon 
Shoe Strings, Polish, 

Quick Service 
lot r gpirit 
~oarf
• 
TAKE TIME TO VISIT THE 
NEW 
AQUINAS BOOK SHOP 
GIFTS • BOOKS POSTERS LOVE NOTES GREETING CARDS RELIGIOUS 
EDUCATION MATERIAL 

ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME CAMPUS OFF JUNIPER ROAD 
BROWSERS WELCOME FREE PARKING 

OPEN MONDAY & THURSDAY TIL 7:00 PM 
AQUINAS BOOK SHOP 
18717 BULLA ROAD SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PH. 272-1704 














