r-------------------------------~---­
Rain! 

Vol. VI. No. 58 serving the notre dame-saint. mary's college community Tuesday, December 7, 1971 

SMC presidential search now? 
Priorities questioned 
by Jodi Campbell The search for a new St. Mary's President, and means for securing Notre Dame student 
cooperation in the protests over suspension of unification were the prime topics at last night's meeting of SMC student government officials with students and faculty. 
The priorities of the protest over the decision were also discussed during the ninety minute session. 
SBP Kathy Barlow said tha(she did not know if 
the presidential search SMC's acting president Sr. 
Alma Peter called for last week would be conducted 
as it was last year. Miss Barlow, a member of last 
year's search committee, reported that she has 
"not as yet been contacted" about a position for 
herself on the new committee. 

Several people, including Barlow, questioned the 
necessity of selecting a new president, contending 
that immediate total merger by the two schools 
ought to be the goal of the current SMC ad­
ministration. 

student demands 

Both Miss Barlow and Student Assembly Representative Eileen Fitzpatrick suggested that the current priorities be reevaluated in light of the "small amount of time" remaining in the semester. The semester ends Dec. 19th. Presently the priorities stand as they were presented in the first statement issued by Student Government Those priorities are: 
--1. justification of the decision 

--2. the location of an outside arbitrator and 
---3. a reversal of the decision. 

Barlow contended that since there are only two 
more weeks before vacation tactics could not afford 
to be "separated." SMC Physics professor, Dr. 
Mark A. Bambenek, in discussing the rationale the 
trustees set forth that the merger had to be con­
sumated by December 1 for their decision to go into 
pffect by 1972 is "legitimate" because decisions 
regarding faculty tenure and budgets must be made 
at this time. Even with reopene.d negotiations, Bambenek said, "I don't see how unification could be complete by 1972." 
Barlow disputed Bambenek's statement by saying "We never put a date on it. The reopening of negotiations is our focus." 
Fr. Maurice Amen CSC stated that, if when the reasons are located, "If they are good reasons we may make the same decision." 
Mary Orr, SMC sophomore said, "People have different priorities. We might not think it's a good reason." 
Bambenek queried, "If the reasons are valid, why are they secret? The decision was made by a group not in communication with those affected. Outside arbitration comes after inside communication breaks down...we never had any. I think if you're looking for the guys in white hats there aren't any." 
Means of obtaining the cooperation of ND students were discussed. 
"We must make the people over there more aware and concious of why they haven't respon­ded." Fr. Roger Cromier stated. 
Don Mooney reported that an all night vigil will be held Tuesday Dec. 7. The vigil is scheduled for 10 pm and will be held in the administration building if that can be arranged. If the administration building is not available the student center will be used. Darlene Gallina emphasized that the action was not only to show solidarity but also to educate the participants in what is happening. 
Don Mooney presented a statement that had been signed by himself and nine other Notre Dame students stating that at least half the blame must belong to the University of Notre Dame." 
"It is basic to Christian ethics to never stop trying," Fr. Amen declared. "Education is one of the few things when good people will go down with the ship. If it's a bad ship they'll abandon it like hell." 
He suggested that the demand for arbitration be modified to let faculty, students, administration and trustees make decisions together. 
The statement also presented a proposal that the two boards meet jointly, in an open meeting and that the two schools should continue at the present level of cooperation. 



Kathy Balow 
'not as yet contacted' about presidential search committee at St. Mary's. 


Fr. Cormier 
"We must make the people over there more aware and con­scious ... " 

Fr. AmEn 
"If they are good reasons, we 
may make the same decision" 
regarding the merger. 


ND teach-in (sleep-in) 
...see page 10 



India to follow P.O.W. rules, recognizes Bangia Desh rebels 
<Cl 1971 Washington Star 
New Delhi, Dec. 6--As Indian troops pushed into East Pakistan from all sides, Prime Minister In­dira Gandhi announced today India's formal recognition of the government of Bangia Desh <Bengal nation). 
This declaration that East and West Pakistan no longer exist as one nation provides a legal basis for cooperation between India and her new ally. 
The Indian government, which had originally sponsored the Bangia desh government as an exile regime in Calcutta, is now seeking to exercise some control over Bangia desh military forces which she armed and tarined. 
India has publicly proclaimed that she will ob­serve Geneva Convention rules for prisoners in East Pakistan, and it wants the local insurgent forces to do the same. This is intended to encourage the Pakistani army to surrender. 
An Indian military spokesman said today that 
East Pakistan is now isolated from West Pakistan, 
with no hope of receiving reinforcements or sup­plies. India's policy is to try to avoid head-on battles so far as possible. 
But Bangia desh spokesmen have said in the past that their forces would take no prisoners from the army which they said has murdered, raped, pillaged and burned East Pakistan. 
India is trying to bind its new ally to military conventions which will prevent this attitude and therefore offer hope of avoiding bitter last-ditch fights by the 31h Pakistani divisions in the East. 
India has guided the exile regime since its founding. But the Indian government has become increasingly worried that the moderate leaders of ths Bangia desh government might be outflanked by more radical forces if the struggle goes on in­definitely. 
A foreign ministry spokesman said it was too. early to say wberre the Bangia desh government ­would be established now -with Dacca still held by the Pakistani army -and where India's new am­bassador would be sent. No ambassador has yet been named. 


More on India-Pakistan war on pages 3 and 10 

Page 2 THE OBSERVER. Tuesday, December 7, 1971 
Over ND release 

SBP Barlow dislikes wording of statement 
by Daniel P. Rock 
St. Mary's Student Body President Kathy Barlow said yesterday that she "disliked" the wording of thestatement of Notre Dame's Student Government released Sunday night. 
·The statement decried the "injustice" of the recent merger cancellation. It asked for the "provost in cooperation with the four college deans and depart­ment chairmen" to clarify details of procedures for St. Mary's students getting NO's degrees. 
"In general," Miss Barlow said, "It's obvious that the writers already have accepted the decision. Even though they support the strike, they them­selves aren't taking any action­they aren't taking any part in the strike." 
Miss Barlow said that the word "decried" used by the Student Government does not have the "right perspective." According to Miss Barlow, if NO Student Government "decried" the lack of information supplied to the students, they should have demanded the information. 
Miss Barlow also said that the Student Government of Notre Dame also limited themselves to three categories: transfer students, co-ex classes and primarily degrees. 
"The part of degrees is just a · small part of a larger picture," she said, "Where are all the other issues? ... the decisions and the people who made them? What are they going to do with the Notre Dame Administration?" 
Although Miss Barlow agreed with the statement's contention 
that  many  students  at  Notre  
Dame  expressed apathy  about  
the  non-merger  because  Notre  

Dame is going co~d anyway, she said that Notre Dame students must realize that a small number of girls will be taken in to Notre 
McCluskey telegram 
To: Kathy Barlow Stunned by decision to postpone 
merger made totally without my participation during October 22 Board meeting. I repeatedly stressed impossibility of turning back and urge completion of unification plans no matter what. Trag lc that mutua I lack of confidence can block this necessary development. I see no future for St. Mary's without Notre Dame and less worthy future for Notre Dame without St. Mary's. 
Rev. Neil McCluskey St. Mary's Executive Board 
Rev. James Riehle, C.S.C., Dean of Students , announced the formation of a Security o and Traffic Advisory Board. 
The Board, made up of representatives of the University Community, will act as an ad­visory body to the Dean of Students in matters relating to traffic and s•ecurity on the Notre Dame campus. 
The Board is charged with 
assisting in the development of 
University policy on matters of 
Traffic and Security. 

Dame and the co~x program will be out down. Obviously, she said, they stand to lose by this decision. 
Miss Barlow reiterated her demand of a whole reversal of the no-merger decision. 
"There is a need to put pressure on Notre Dame's Ad­ministration and Trustees, and we are preparing actions now," she said. 
"As far as St. Mary's is con­cerned right now, actions are continuing and things are going very well," she added. On a related move, Kathy Barlow released the following telegram from Trustee Fr. Meil McCluskey.) 


OBSERVER 

Staff 
Details and tickets for the Observer Xmas bash can be obtained from your department heads -GSC 



The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box 
Q,  Notre  Dame,  Indiana  46556,  
second class postage paid.  Notre  
Dame, Ind. 46556.  




E 




OBSERVER 
Servinx th<' Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Communi(Y 
Vol. VI, No. 58 SECOND FRONT PAGE Tuesday, December 7, 1971 
Dacca by night 

Evacuations and curfews are rule in East Pakistan 
by James P. Sterba 
(C) 1971 New York Times· 
Dacca, Pakistan, Dec. 4 <Delayed)-The city is lightless at 8:30 P.M. Nothing moves. A 5:30 curfew sent people from the streets. Curtains are pulled, candles burn shaded from windows. There are few sounds. A dog howls now and then, a jeep or truck slips by, lights out. 
The clouds have dimmep the moonlight, the stars are faint. The crows, after a day of soaring overhead among Indian and Pakistani warplanes, have ceased their noisy vigil. The capital of East Pakistan is listening and waiting. 
At 8:32 Dacca hears three booms in the distance. A siren wails. No sounds of jets. Another deeper­tone siren. 
Now at 8:37P.M. the whoosh of a jet can be heard. 
It is high and far away. There is more than one, 
one firing so far. 
Families of United Nations workers, contractors, relief workers and others have packed suitcases, waiting to be evacuated. They have been told a United Nations aircraft -an American C-130 Her­cules -is coming from Bangkok to take them out. Children are confused; some whine. The hotel's hall lights are on but room and ground -floor lights have been blacked out and the windows taped. 
The Scottish chef has prepared another buffet for dinner: chicken and lamb curries, rice cucumbers, fish, cold plates;. No beer or coke left. The waiter said the hoarding began this afternoon. Diners eat by candlelight, talking of rumors and whether things will get worse or better. Most seem to think worse. 
About 50 journalists are in the hotel punching their typewriters by candlelight and collecting scraps of information. Photographers and film crews and writers trouble over getting their films and articles out. There is constant tuning of radios in search of outside news. 
The hotel filled in the afternoon. Besides evacuees, Pakistan International Airlines workers from the airport piled in, three and four to a room. Nine of their co-workers were killed in the Indian Air Force raids on the airport today. They said the raids started last night at about 3 A.M. and ended for the day by midafternoon. 
"Of course, they have got to break for tea," 
someone said. Now it's 9:14P.M. and there is another dull boom far away, another siren. The government information official said at 7:30 
P.M. that 31 Indian planes were shot down in both wings of Pakistn today, but no one really believes it. Thirteen were downed in East Pakistan, he said; 
Reporters saw four downed over Dacca during the day and three others smoking from hits by an­tiaircraft fire. 
Pakistani air force ~ources claim the capure of nine Indian pilots, including a wing commander. They also say an Indian SU-7 , a Soviet -built fighter, was forced to !ant intact at the airstrip. 
Two Pakistani F-86 fighters were downed, they said, one hit by Pakistani ground fire while chasing an Indian MIG-21. 
"It was quite unfortunate, but at least the Indians did not get it," they added. 
The raids provided a spectacular show for thousands of Dacca residents. Tiny children dressed in rags scurried out for better views as the Indian Migs passed on a strafing and rocketing run on their way to the airport from the middle of town. People watched from the tops of buildings, ducking 
'sometimes when antiaircraft shells popped too close. Hotel residents climbed on the roof, where color-television cameras recorded ballet-like dogfights and raids on the airport. 
One film crew worked in bathing suits, saying they might as well get a suntan. Others had room service deliver cold drinks and lunch. As a Mig shot over tailed by two sabers and then flew in low over the airport, a cameraman turned to a uniformed waiter to say: "Oh waiter, waiter. Make that a double order--fruit cocktail and iced tea with lime" (there is no lemon in East Pakistan). 
At 12:30 p.m. newsmen were taken to the airport by military officers to see a downed Indian Mig. They arrived just in time to be strafed by Mig's that destroyed two of three small single-engine United Nations aircraft parked by a hangar only a few yards away. 
Several television cameramen lay on their backs, filming the Indian planes through a blaze of an­
(continued on page 12) 

U.S. suspending some aid to India 
by Bt'rnard Gwertzman <C) 1971 New York Times 
Washington, Dec. 6-continuing to brand India as the "Main Aggressor" in the conflict with Pakistan, The United States today suspended a large portion of its economic aid to New Delhi. 
The State Department, reflecting the Nixon Administrations anger at Prime Minister Indira Gandhi's Government, announced that it was cutting off $87.6 million in development loans. 
Charles W. Bray III, the department spokesman, said that the freeze should be viewed in the context that "The United States is not making a short-term contribution to the Indian economy to make it easier for the Indian government to sustain its military efforts." 
Left untouched by the suspension was another $135 million in loans, either aimed at long-term projects or for purchase of goods already com­mitted to India. 
Officials said that the freeze would probably have little effect on Indi 's resolve to pursue the conflict with the Pakistanis but was a further sign of American pique. Last week, the Administration cut off $13.5 million in licenses for military exports to India. 
The mood within the administration was clearly anti-Indian, consistent with a statement issued on Saturday by a high state department official who said that India had systematically sought to worsen the crisis in East Pakistan and therefore "bt'ars the major responsibility for the broader hostilities that have ensued." 
Officially, the U.S. remains neutral, to the extent that it has imposed a halt on all military shipments to both India and Pakistan. But privately and publicly, India is called the "aggressor." 
George Bush, The U.S. Delegate at the United Nations, said during the security Council deliberations over the weekend that India was the "main aggressor." In an interview this morning over the Columbia Broadcasting System, Bush said in referring to India that "There's quite clear aggression. It's obviously quite clear." 
Bray said that Bush's remarks represented those of the administration. 
Administration officials said that Predsident Nixon himself was determined topin responsibility on India for the fighting. This followed, State Department officials said , Mrs. Gandhi's "Total lack of responsiviveness" to repeated American efforts toward a deplomatic solution to the long­simmering crisis. 
These officials did not seek to deny that the efforts by Pakistani President Agha Mohammaed Yahya Khan to crush the separatist movement in East Pakistan had precipitated the crisis. But the argument being used to justify the Anti-Indian bias of recent days was that India had expanded what was essentially an internal Pakistani matter into an all-out war. 

World 

Briefs 
(('l I!liI Nt>w York Times Nt>ws Service 
Washington--President Nixon met with Canadian Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau in the first of his scheduled five meetings with Western leaders before his trips to Peking and Moscow. Trudeau was ·,reported to have discussed with the President the recent meeting with Soviet Premier Alexi N. Kosygin. 
United Nations, N.Y.-Israeli Foreign Minister Abba Eban told the 
U.N. General Assembly that his government was willing to resume negotiations with Egypt on the basis of the program drawn up by six African heads of state for the organization of African unity. The program has not been made public, but reportedly does not call for an Israeli withdrawal commitment before the talks begin. 
Washington---The Senate confirmed the nomination of Lewis F. Powell Jr. to the Supreme Court by an 85 to 1 vote, with the lone op­posing vote cast by Sen. Fred R. Harris. The Senate then began to debate the more controversial nomination of William H. Rehnquist. A vote on that nomination is not expected until at least the end of the week. 
Washington--Sen. Edmund S. Muskie's bid for the 'Democratic Presidential nomination will be endorsed this week by Sen. John V. Tunney of California, sources in Washington said. The endorsement will be one of the most important for Muskie since it comes from the leading Democrat in California, which holds one of the most important primaries. 

on campus today 
4: 15 lecture, clagett g. smith, some problems in the history of violence, 127 niewland 
7:00 meeting, flying club, 120 o'shag 
7:30 lecture, ken feit, damn everything but the circus, flanner pit 
8:00 lecture, dr. peter naus, aging and urban problems, flanner lounge 


nd-smc 

Page 4 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, December 7, 1971 
ND-SMC student leaders 


issue first joint demands 
Student leaders on both campuses have joined forces to demand that trustees from Notre Dame and St. Mary's resume merger negotiations by January 1972, Eric Andrus, spokesman for the two groups announced yesterday. 
The joint statement released after last night's meeting marked the first unified action by groups on the two campuses. The statement reads: 
As men and women who con­sider themselves members of one academic and social community, we join in the call for a re­evaluation of the recent decision to reverse the merger of ND­SMC. 
The goal of a new coeducational institution is one towards which we have worked collectively for several years. We cannot allow this goal to be abandoned without protest. 
We acknowledge the fact that it is not only the women of SMC who have been insulted by the decision, but that members of both communities have been done serious injustice: 
The situation which the proposed merger would have remedied is best, if seldom, described as one of segregation. 
Because we (men and women) are segregated, our stereotypes of each other are perpetuated, our insensitivity to the other's situation is increased, and our access to the other's collective and individual wisdom is diminished. 
Because of the recent decision, this unhealthy segregation will continue. This is surely the case for present and future students of a separate SMC. Just as surely, this is the case for present NO students, regardless of the promise of a coeducational NO in the future and "continuing cooperation" of NO and SMC. 
2). That this decision was made unilaterally by the Boards of Trustees violates the avowed respect for the opinions of all members of these "Christian Communities" in the decision­making process. 
3). The present secrecy regarding the reasons for the decision is an insult to students and faculty of both communities, and carries the implication that negotiations were not conducted in good faith. 
In the last week, the respon­sibility has been placed on the Sisters and Trustees of Saint Mary's. This may be the case, but 



Violence in sports 
by Jack Kelly 
"The poor sooner or later will 
be heard, non-violently, but 
loudly stressing the violence 
inherent in American Football 
and contrasting it to the 
philosophy of the Catholic 
Church." The preceding is a 
quote from a letter recently 
received by Notre IDame 
President, Fr. Theodore M. 
Hesburgh, protesting the 
violence of American Football. 
The letter from Nick Matavulli 
Indiana Youth Soccer Organizer: 
was a plea to "educators on our 
campuses who promote football, 
to re-examine their souls and 
give an opportunity to their 
students to engage in team sports 
other than the violent sport of 
Football." 
Specifically Matavulli wanted Fr. Hesburgh, "as a Catholic and educator," to give more financial support to the "non-violent sport of millions of Catholic boys, that is soccer." 
In a telephone interview with the Observer, Matavulli said "I feel this way because, when I refereed a soccer match at Notre Dame, I had no facilities to change, the soccer field was very poor and there were no members of the ND Athletic Staff present. 
However I noticed the excellent 
facilities provided for Football 
Hockey, and Baseball." ' 
Asked to validate his argument 
concerning the violence of 
football, he said, "I can in­
telligently and rationally prove 
my point through statistics, that 
football is more violent than 
soccer." He went on to say "I do 
not want to eliminate football, but 
offer soccer as an alternative." 
Presently the Notre Dame 
soccer club receives an allocation 
of $600, which Matavulli feels "is 
quite insufficient to outfit and 
maintain a team." 
When questioned as to Fr. Hesburgh's reply, he stated "Fr. Hesburgh refered the matter to Fr. Joyce, Executive Vice­President, to consider the possibility of increasing the soccer team's allocation." 
He felt however that Fr. Hesburgh had "skirted the issue of the violence of football because of it's monetar; relevance at Notre Dame." 
Matavulli also stated that he had written the "POPE" in a hope that "he could as an in­telligent Catholic, like Fr. Hesburgh, possibly help the cause to increase the non-violent sport of soccor on our Catholic Campuses." 
INI'ERVJEW CANrF.J.J.F.n? 
YOUR 



AIR FORCE 

IS HIRING 
At these typical annual salaries for Junior Officers: 
$8,300 at entry (9,500 if you fly) $10,200 after 2 years (12,000 if you fly) $12,100 at 3 years (13,900 if you fly 
With many sweet fringe benefits. 
THERE IS STILL TIME! Call ext. 663!1 WITHOUT DELAY! 

until the facts are known, we must assume that at least half the responsibility must lie with the University of Notre Dame. 
In light of the above, we demand: 
1). Immediate and formal commitment by both Boards of Trustees and Administrations that negotiations will resume in January 1972; 
2). Furthermore, that students and faculty be accepted as members of an ad hoc committee convened for making final decisions in such negotiations, with representation equal to that of trustees and administrators. 
John Barkett, Notre Dame SBP Kathleen Barlow, Saint Mary's SBP Don Mooney, Student Union Social Commissioner 
Fr. Roger Cormier, C.S.C., Acting Director SMC Campus Ministry 
Melissa Underman, Saint Mary's SBVP Bill McGrath, Student Union Director Mary Ellen Stoltz, Co-editro, Scholastic Dave Loring, Keenan Hall 
President Darlene Gallina Tom Pifferetti, NO Senior Class 
President Jeanne Seymour Eric Andrus Eileen Fitzpatrick Floyd Kezele John Robinson 
JuniorYear in NewYork 
Washington Square College of Arts and Science 
of New York University sponsors a 
Junior Year in New York. 
!he College, located i~ ~he heart of the city, is an mtegral part of t.he excttmg metropolitan community of New York Ctty-the business, cultural artistic and financial center of the nation. The cit/s extrao;di­nary resources greatly enrich both the academic pro~ra~ and _the experience of living at New York Umverstty wtth the most cosmopolitan student body in the world. 
This program is open to students recommended by the deans of the colleges to which they will return for their degrees. 
There are strong and varied offerings in many areas, such as fine arts, urban studies, languages including non-European, mathematics in the College and at the Courant Institute, psychology, and others. 
A qualified student may register for courses in all other schools of the University, including the specializations in Commerce and Education. 
The University sponsors programs in Spain and France. 
Write for brochure to Director, Junior Year in New York 
New York University 
New York, N.Y. 10003 • 
!\ : • ! i 

.. • ;' •· 1• .5-1.'.,... ·k"' "--tt r .,... 1-' ·--'7 . 1 -?..-..: ·1: ..... 7 •· .• ~f. .. !~ll·:· .-.,·--s-··(,·6 \'6 __...,,.:p...'1 ""··.., .s .,...•. ·.. . . •. ,_7 7.7.'_._-,7.7 7 ··'\ ~!: I 6 .r:-;'?fr:) r•>l~,;..;r'(· .: ...' '' 5.:9-, r ...J 7 .. 
' ;z. : ,., 7.7 1&. · __.-(o";1)~j-·'· f> W'"t~'-._-.1,~6 ·9 ' . 9....._:-' .. ~ ,6~6..? •I •.. 7 .•· ......
1

~ "" ' ~
( I 7 ... 1'-9 . ~~/~..: 6 I
·7-:···· -·z. z. ... -..,.,.. ·\~ .~ .. , . · --:· 
COLOR IN THIS "MINI­
PRESIDENTIAL 

1. 
Buy a whole bunch of Flair pens. You need black, red, blue, green, brown, orange, yellow, pink, purple, grey, aqua & olive. (You need them anyway for school.) 

2. 
Now-color in the picture according to these color guide numbers. Black (1). Red (2). Blue (3). G1·een (4). Brown (5). Orange (6). Yellow (7). Pink (8). Purple (9). Grey (10). 


·1.: ..... '. ••. •7 . ~·· • ... • • . •• 
\o ....~... ;"" -l" ..~, . it ~ ;~' .. :7... : 4 ~ 
(;;/ POSTER" OF ONE OF THE 
~~­


N_~ CANDIDATES!
ddi 
i"'j Aqua (11). Olive (12). Please do not color 
Ti unnumbered areas. ,i 3. Congratulations! You have created a i genuine full color portrait of someone you
! know and love. Maybe. If he is not your 
r favorite presidential candidate, have pa­tience. You'll see your man soon in the Flai1· Election Collection! 



Tuesday, December 7, 1971 
THE OBSERVER 


UN cease-fire bids killed by vetoes 
by Eric Pace But as the d('bate droned on to th(' (;pneral Assembly if the air and ground activity had taken (t•) l!lil Nt•w York Timt's into its third day, Italy withdrev. Council were crippled by placp since (the preceding 24-stationed at various field stations 
a draft cease-fire resolution and dissension. hour p<'riod l. The area along the in the area. 
tlnih•d Nations. N.Y.. Dt•c. ll--­l<'ranc<' announcpd that her ef. SomP delegations, including ceasp-fire line had been active, No hope was held out here for Tht> SPcurity Council debate on forts toward framing another the Rritish and French, are but no ground moves had been passage of the five-country draft the -I-Ndian-Pakistan war bogged rPsolution had failed. undPrstood to feel, however, that made by either the Indian or r<'solution that was before the down further today as diplomatic No resolution has been passed little can be accomplished by Pakistan military forces." counb£il today. moves toward a cease-fire so far. largely because the Soviet touching off a free-for-all debate The other report, for the With Italy as its principalresolution foundered on the llnion and China, both of whom in the 131-mPmber assemblv, preceding 24 hours, said Tassara sponsor. the draft resolution threat of new vetoes in the hav£' the veto, have been at <'ven though there is no veto (;onzales had reported "that called on India and Pakistan to SPcurity Council. loggPrhPads in the packed there. sporadic air activity by both accept a cease-fire "as a first 
The possibility of shifting the council chamber. No comment on the possibility sides was continuing." stPp" while the council would dPbate to the General Assembly Tonight the Chinese member, was immPdiately forthcoming It continued: continue meeting in search of was raised as t•ouncil mt>mbt>rs, Huang llua, denounced the Soviet from Indian delegates here, but a "Ground activity along the nwasures to produce peace. ~-:rowing hu-rl'asingly impatil'nt, nwmber. Yakov Malik, in harsh Pakistani source gave muted cease-fire line was very active The Soviet Union was generallym-g.•d lht• llnitt>d Nations to makt> tPrms. pndorsement to the idea. during the past 24 hours, with considered sure to veto the sumt• 11111\'t' toward stopping tht' Huang, wearing his usual Mao "if Uwn• is no other way out, almost continuous artillery, measure, however. Yesterday it hloods lwd. tunic. said to Malik: "I am most thenlt't's go to the asst>mbly," he mortar and small arms fire." vetoed an eight-nation draft 
Secretary General U Thant, willinJ.: to Iistt'n to you, sir, said. Th£' reports drew on data resolution calling for a cease-fire. who returned to his office today ht•t·aust• this will t'nable myself NPither delegation commented compiled by U.N. observers after an illness of more than a and otlwrs to St't' more clearly the imm<"diately on two two-page month. r<'ported meanwhile, that lnH• ft•atures of Soviet im-military reports on the situation "active" shelling and airstrikes (Wrialism." in Kashmir that were made 
America'sl,a.rgl'/11. ~ Pamily Clothing Chuin
by both sides were continuing in Malik made no such criticisms public here in Thant's name 
. ' ­
Kashmir. of !luang early in the debate today. · 
~~ 
Quoting U.N. observers along 
.. ~: ~'~~lilwt..::
tonight. He concerned himself Th<' more recent report began
the Kashmir cease-fire lines, largely with procedural issues, as follows: Thant said that "no ground 
which have contributed to, and "The chief military observer of 

ROBERTHALLCLOTHES
moves had been made" there by complicated, the stalemate the United Nations Military<•ither army, however, in the 24 between the two countries, which Observer group in India and 
404 W~ST W~STERN AV~NUI' • SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
hours preceding 11 a.m. today, 
have the veto power. Pakistan, Lt. Gen. Luis Tassara W<•st Pakistan time. Mindful of this, Sevilla-Sacasa Gonzales <a Chilean), reportedOn the East front, a U.N. 
reminded the council that U.N. on 6 December 1971 at 11 hours 
Open every night
spokesman here reported, both machinery existed for tran-lWPst Pakistan Time) that no 
'til 9:30 PHON£:: 287-6722 
sidt's had agrt>ed to cease sferring debate on a crisis issue major changes in the pattern of 

hostilitit>s nt>ar Dacca for four .:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;::::::::::::::;;;;;:::: r--=:::.:::_==~=--==:...!::..::.==-.:.::__.j~=============-1
hours so that ll.N. and non­Saint Mary's "Last Gasp"
Pakistani consular personnel 
CinPma sPries faces a unique
t'tmld bt' t'vacuatt>d to Bangkok by air. 
prohiPm in the after -math of the 

What is life without love? 
'unmerger' . It isn't a last gaspNo'agreement was reached in any longer.
the council chamber, however. 
Th(' name was originally in­The Nicaraguan representative, tended to imply that all futureGuillermo Sevilla-Sacasa, ex­film series would have to be runpressed the mounting desperation here when he called 
through such Notre Dame organizations as the Cultural
on the United Nations to act. He said: 
Arts Commission: With the Pxpected unification now post­
"Neither the Security Council poned, the Religious studiesnor the General Assembly can 
department, sponsors of the
remain motionless while series, are sponsoring a contestmachineguns do away with to rename the series, which isthousands of lives in a region •1ow eJCpected to continue.
where understanding should 
Prizes for the contest will be 2 
flourish and brotherly un­
spason tickets for the first prize,d('rstanding. This is all I wish to and one season pass to the the 20say, Mr. President. I wish to say film series for the second prize.
only this at the hour of grave Entries should be given to Dr.
responsibility which is vested in W<>rnz of the Religious Studiesus Mr. President: Let us do I>Ppartment before the end ofsomething and do it soon." 
<>xam week. 
"Th(' Lt>gal Basis for Air 
~~ 
Pollution Controll" will be discussed in a telecom lecture by 



10 % OFF
Sh('ldon .J. Plager. professor of 
n any mechanical
law at th(' University of Illinois, at 1\ p.m. Tuesday <dec. 7) in 
ork and winterizing Boom 205 of the University of 
snow tires included) No\r(' Dame's l'~ngineering Hall. ThP talk, sponsored by the 
For Students and
Midw<•st llniv('rsities' Com­
University Personnel
mitt('<' on Air Pollution. will be pipt•d by closed circuit tPIPvision to membPr institutions 
Roseland Gulf
of thP Committe('. Plager's talk 
02 U.S. 31 North Across
is thP second in a series of six planrwd by the gorup. from~ger Kin_g 
Cultural Arts Commissions Performing Arts Series presents 

Night of the Following Do with Marlen Branda 
Dec. 8 7 & 9 pm 


From one beer lover to another. 
THE STKOH BRE\\I'I'K' ( <l~II'A' Y DITROIT. MIOJI(;A:"\ 1H~U•
Engineering Auditorium 
Admission $1 PAS Patrons Free 

Page 6 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, December 7, 1971 
--~~-----------------------------------~----~--~--­


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Jo;ditor·in-Chlef, Glen S. Corso Assistant EditorAnisian& Editor 
All successful newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. ·Treanor 
ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend 
,\dvertislng Manager 
Business Manager anyone or anything if they can help 
Jim Jendryt it; if the job is forced upon them; Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Meneken 
Business: 283-7471 News: 283-1715 
ND IS• getting it too ! 
The un-merger is a week old now and doesn't look as if it is going to suffer the quick demise so many are wishing upon it. That it is living, and will probably continue to live is a shame. It's a shame because the decision is atrocious and deserves quick and final oblivion. 
All protesting done so far has been done by St. Mary's students. They are losing a great deal by the decision---losing Notre Dame diplomas and Notre Dame education. But, a little noticed and less cared about fact is that Notre Dame students have just as great, if not greater, stake in this farce. 
Right now roughly 1500 St. Mary's girls take courses over here. That's 1500 girls that are walking around and sitting in class--girls that are generally available to converse with, to exchange pleasantries with, and to share learning with. 
Ifun-merger sticks, and if St. Mary's girls are charged some ridiculous credit hour fee to take courses over here next year then there won't be 1500 SMC girls on campus, there probably won't even be 150. 
Under the Notre Dame plan we'll have an additional250 girls here---but those 250 will be added to 150, not 1500. 
That would be a real disaster---a real disaster for students on both sides of the road. St. Mary's girls would be forced to limit their education to the small number of courses offered there; neither they nor the Notre Dame students will have the benefit of even the partial c~education we have now. 
Instead we will be faced with the largely unpalatable situation now being cooked up by Hesburgh and Co. Instead of having over 1700 women to c~educate with, we'll have 400, maybe. 
That, contrary to whatever opinion you subscribe to, is not c~ education. That is the old game played out by the Ivy League schools--­bring enough women here to dress up the place, enough women to con­tinue to attract top applicants who aren't interested in a monastic type life, enough women so that the Justice Department can't sue the university for discrimination on the basis of sex. 
Notre Dame can't or won't admit enough women to make c~education a reality. At best their plan is a half-measure, as it was designed to be. Without unification the half measure is a ploy---a pitiful ploy at that. 
A lot of verbiage has been thrown around so far about the un-mer(er, some of it good, some of it bad. The St. Mary's students are trying to get the decision reversed, Notre Dame Students, true to form aren't doing anything. Nor will they do anything unless they think it will directly affect them. 
Well, it will. The present Sophomores and Freshmen will suffer the withdrawal pains of c~ex replaced by Notre Dame's brand of co-ed. 
Think about, think about this campus with a third-less women, think about your classes with a third-less women. Then, call Notre Dame Student Government and see if they need some help. And show up at LaFortune tonight at 10 p.m. 
Night people 
Nite Editor: Jim McDermottthe earliest The Crew: Art "Weatherman" Esposito, Dan Ryan, Don 
Biancamno Moral Support: Ann McCarry Visitors and derelicts: John Abowd, Don Ruane (?!), TC 
Treanor, Glen Corso, Jack Kelly, Dan Rock, Tom Bor­
nholdt, and some SG people, good and evil. features editor: rick smith (thanks---you know why) Maniac at the machines: Joe Wilkowski Sporting Editor: James Donaldson Newsless Editor: Jeremiah "Luckless" Lutkus, who didn't 
dare show his face. Voices on the phone: Joe and the Rev. The Phantom: Dan Music in the air: Art's radio Friday nite---flamin' and gapin', not to mention partyin' 
Pearl Harbor: 30 years, and today. Happy finals! Out at four, and where's that other typist? 

Tom Bornholdt 
Value Added 

It is come to the notice of many concerned people, not to mention a few concerned pterodactyls, that the present American society, is presently in danger of overproducing material goods to the point of ecological annihilation, if not a chronic deficiency of spiritual vitamins. So before we are drowned in a sea of cars with fins, Yours Truly will offer a totally revolutionary concept of economics that will save us from BioSystem Cataclysm. 
Take a piece of wood, carve it into a chair, and in doing so one converts the cheap piece of wood into a moderately expensive chair. process, as anyone in Principles of Econ knows, adds value to the raw material in this case, wood. By summing up all the value added that America produces, one gets one definition of gross national product. 
In many European countries, furthermore, there is what is known as a value-added tax. If one takes $10 of wood and makes a $30 chair, one has added a value of $20. If the rate of the value added tax in a par­ticular country was 10 percent, the chair maker would have to pay a tax of $2 for each chair he produced. 
So, as step one, Yours Truly would have our beloved government institute a large value-added tax. A bare minimum would be at a rate of 100 percent. 150 percent would be even better. This would serve as a possible incentive for people not to produce any more chairs, electric toothbrushes or SST's. It may not be totally successful in this goal, however, and besides it won't take care of the already existing mechanization. The large value added tax's main purpose would be therefore, to supply the large amount of funds that the government would need for Phase Two of the plan, (heretofore to be known as the Bornholdt Plan). It is particularly suited for this, a value added tax of 150 percent would supply 1.5 trillion dollars, since our GNP is roughly 1 trillion. 
Phase Two is more ingenous. What if someone was to take a chaiir and bust it up into scrap wood? He would then be reducing its value from $30 to $10. 
This enterprising young savant has caused a net value addition of 
negative $20. What I here propose is that the government extend the 
value added tax to negative values, except that for these, the govern­
ment pays the person at the given rate. For instance, a rate of 10 
percent, the destruction of one chair would give its destroyer a $2 
subsidy. The negative value added tax is roughly in the same relation 
to the positive value added tax as the negative income tax is to the 
progressive income tax--an extension of the principle to a previously 
neglected domain. 
The negative income tax would preferably not have a flat rate, 
however. Certain prohibitions would have to be included. Obviously 
the military would have to be excluded, lest SAC generals be tempted 
to become instant trillionaires. In a similar vein, any form of negative 
value added that causes pollution would not be subsidized. Simply 
burning things will not do. The destroyers must find more attractive 
means. 
On the other hand, the destruction of capital goods which produce in 
turn more of the despised products, should clearly be subsidized at a 
higher rate. Lastly, the value reduction of objects in a natural manner 
should be given a higher rate of subsidy. 
Picture the results of this type of government policy. Whole new 
industries will spring up. Into Factory A, of General UnMotors, cars 
go in and scrap iron comes out. Into the factories of American Rust, 
the scrap iron comes in, and iron ore would come out. Finally, miners 
would be paid to put the ore back in the ground. 
Meanwhile, many chemical plants across the nation will be taking in 
gasoline, kerosene, motor oil, etc., producing petroleum that is then 
piped back into the ground. These would be relatively easy, but with 
some good American research, who knows what may arise? Factories 
by which wood comes in and trees come out. Electricity comes in and 
coal comes out. 
Goods would not be the only thing effected. Services would qualify. 
Negative medicine would pay ex-quacks for infecting people. Vandals 
would be government subsidized, as would that clumsy TV repairman 
who leaves one's set worse than before. Speaking of TV, commercials 
would now be subsidized not for selling goods, but for having negative 
artistic value. The Buffalo Bills would be paid for playing negative 
football. Johnny Dee would have received it for being able to tum a 
great basketball player into a good one, a rare talent. 
The largest negative service, however, would be negative education. 
People come in smart, are fed false information, confused, and 
bewildered, so that they come out stupid. In light of recent events, this 
may very well be St. Mary's only hope for solvency. 
A few more professions would be affected. Negative lawyers would 
arise advising their clients to escape penalties by "pleading guilty to a 
greater charge." Negative psychiatrists would try to give their 
patients problems, while negative marriage counselors would be 
subsidized for each divorce they casue. Drewry's would make a for­
tune without even changing. Drug pushers would be paid for the 
amount of damage they could do to otherwise productive people. 
Negative cosmetics would exist to make people ugly, as would 
odorants. 
The merits of this bold plan are obvious. Not only would it sweep the 
dread curse of affluence from the land, but it would accomplish this 
through true libertarian policy-making this policy financially 
lucrative instead of legally binding. With the great power of American 
industry properly harnessed, the nation could be back to the good old 
days of stone in the twinking of an eyelash. 

Tuesday, December 7, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
fred schaefer 




m1•chigan city prisoner program needs books 
Notre Dame students involved in a teaching program in the Michigan City prison and the Chain of Lakes Youth Camp in Albion Ind., are sponsoring a book drive to enrich their library available to the inmates. 
The program began two years ago in Professor Robert Vasoli's criminology class. One of the students, Joe Fagliardi, went on an extra-credit trip to the prison, and wrote a paper about the situation at the prison. The conditions of the prison, the small cells, the barely staple food, the zoo-like conditions made quite an impression on him. From this came the idea for the teaching program. 
A carload of students goes down to Michigan City every Wednesday and Thursday night, to teach basic math and grammar, and english and math on the high school level. 
Greg Gannon, a senior English major, has these comments: "It's kind of surprising how interested the inmates are. Most of them who get into the program are really interested in learning, and are really into the subjects that they're taking. 
"Most of the guys are anxious to talk to people outside, especially young people. A large part of my time is spent talking with my students. 

russell baker 

"It's really strange walking into the prison -it's kind of ominous. There's three gates that you have to go through, and you get a really oppressive feeling. And then when you meet the inmates, it's really quite a surprise. Most people expect to meet a criminal type, but it's surprising to see what regular guys they are. They're a lot like people that we know outside. The stereotype is pretty easily broken once you get to know the guys." 
Gannon sai<! that there are some "extra-talented guys" in the prison. Some are artists who are allowed to sell their works, although the money is put into a trust fund. There are also some bands, a music club, and a group that is planning to put on "Jesus Christ Superstar" sometime before Christmas. 
The education program in which the students participate is helpful to the inmates, but there is no vocational education instructor in the prison. There are a few inmates who teach skills which they are conversant with, but as Gannon is quick to point out, they are not really trained people. But, there are no allocations for a vocational ed. program. 
The jobs that some of the inmates hold are really not rehabilitative and do not teach a skill. For example, many of the inmates work in the tag shop, or help make signs for the state road department. "There's really not much demand for a tagger or a road sign maker on the outside, so it doesn't do these guys a whole lot of good," Gannon says. 
The top wage is 80 cents a day and some of the prisoners work as much as 14 hours a day. As Gannon says, "There are some real shit jobs there." 
According to him, the conditions in Michigan City are pretty good when compared with conditions in other prisons across the country. The inmates are not as overcrowded as in many other prisons, like the Lorton Reformatory in Virginia. "For the most part, it's one prisoner to a cell here at Michigan City," he commented. 
However, he did point out that there is only one doctor in residence for the 1500 inmates. 
The tutoring program needs books--reference books, or books they and the prisoners can use as course material. The books can be dropped off in the off-campus office, or boxes which will be placed in the halls. 
This is the season of giving---give some prisoner a chance to help himself. 


aerosol opinionsville 
(('I 1!171 Nl'w York Times Washington --It is interesting to turn on the set periodically to see what problems are bothering the people who live in television commercials. It is not a bad place to live in --television commercials, that is --if you can tolerate the suden appearances in your home of those humorless. faintly menecing strangesr who pop in and out with problem-solving consumer goods. The problems people have in television commercials. of course, bear no relationship to what you and I call problems. Indeed, one occasionally gets the suspicion that people who live in television C'ommercials are so short of problems that they have to invent them. Could it be that they envy us, out here in the rPal world? That they want so much to he like us that they sit around inside the tube trying to think up problems that will give them something in common with us? 
If so. they are making a sad botch of it. Among men who live in television com­nwrC'ials. for example, there is an un­shakeable conviction that the greatest prohiPms in the United States today is shaving. Where did they ever get the idea that shaving is an ordeal? For more than twPnty years they have been turning up th('J'e in their little bathrooms, every time 
the set lights up, groaning and gasping 
about the toughness of their beards, the 
inadequacy of their lather, the fnefficiency 
of their razors, all apparently on the 
assumption that shaving is the great 
i\nwrican male trauma. 
Ilow can we get through to them with the 
message that shaving is actually one of the 
day's better moments? For the vain, it 
affords a valid excuse for close study of a 
favorite face. For practically everybody, 
it rPquires just enouh concentration on a 
small task to distrct the mind from its real 
worries--that high blood pressure, for 
l'Xample; the possibility atht all three of 
your children may fail algebra 
simultaneously this semester... 
People who live in television com­mercials never seem to have high blood pressure. Physically, their problems are rwgligible. Their gravest infirmity --the television equivalent ot the real-life doctor's announcement that you will n•quire major surgery --is "wetness." ViPtims nf "wetness" may "give offense to others -unnecessarily, of course, thanks to the miracle of the aerosol can -but the ailment never seems to be terminal. 
Another problem among the commercial inhabitants this season is "ring around the collar." This is a condition in which the interior of a man's shirt collar is laundered only inC'ompletely. Rude strangesr who detect it--it is unclear how they know your collar is dirty inside; surely, only your hangman can know for sure --in any case, these rude strangesrs then chant, "ring around the collar! Ring around the collar!" 

Bing around the collar is not a major C'Oncern in the world on this side of the tube. The real collar problems out here are grim. Such as fraying around the collar because of the inflated cost of shirts. 
People who live in television commercials never have the kind of problems caused by unpayable prices and lack of money. 
For that matter, they never seem to lack money, except when there is some unutterably sweet, un erstanding, good­fellow, loan-company handout artist waiting in the next scene to pay their bills. The rest of the day, they are busy solving their little nonprohlem problems by splurging money on shirts at inflated prices, instant "wetness" cures, and a new· razor blade so wonderful it will shave barbed wire with grandmother's lye soap. 
The world of television commercials is not entirely changeless, although most of the problems being confronted there this fall are the same problems that were being solved exactly the same way twenty years ago. Nobody in commercials solves his identity crisis anymore with a cigarette, which is one point at which the people of the commercials have gained on the rest of 
liS. 

There does not seem to be as much trouble with men's hair grooming as in he past. Unsightly dandruff seems to have' gone out of vogue on television, rather in the way tonsilectomies have in the real world since doctors have overcome the patil'nt shortage. 
The problem of the slow-starting car, it is conforting to see, still lingers on for those cold winter mornings. How pleasant it is, pausing even so briefly at a world where a car problem is a car that starts slowly on a winter morning. 
In the world as it is, we accept slow starting on winter mornings without thijking about it. Not even non-starting on summer mornings startles us too much, although it is admittedly an irritant. An irritant, but not a problem. In the world as it is. a car problem is a car that has been in the rt'pair shop for two weeks and a man therp who hates to be telephoned and wishes you would quit annoying him about it. 
It is not healthy to spend too much time watC'hing the people who ive in the telt'vision commercials. They have been locked up in that tube for too long. At least since 1952, at a guess. 
two tales from the chrome jungle 
cram into mouth yellow long toed 
by Gladwin Hill (l') 1!171 Nt•w York Times 
Santa Cruz. C'alif.---A very rare variety of salamander known to exist only around one small pond here was saved from possible early extinction last week when the Santa Cruz county board of supervisors votPd against turning the habitat into a trailer park. 
There are estimated to be no more than ;,no to 1,000 specimens of the little lizard­like animal. informally known as the Santa Cruz long-toed salamander, surviving from a species that goes back as much as 
10.000 years. 
In the wake of the county ruling, con­st•rvation groups are organizing efforts to make the salamander area, consisting of about \50 acres. into a preserve where the animals will be permanently protected. 
The tract is valued at upward of $50,000. 
The Santa Cruz type is distinguished by metallic-looking orange-gold spots run­ning down the middle of its black back, and hy tm•s that are slightly longer in relation to body size than other salamanders. 
Its zoological name is Ambystoma 1\lacrodactylum Croceum. The latter two words are Latin for long-toed and yellow. "Amhystoma" is a contraction of a greek term for "Cram into mouth," referring to the salamander's habit of eating with its forelegs. 
This animal is four to five inches long, and is carnivorous. eating almost any small form of life that does not eat it first. It burrows under willow and oak trees. Once a year, on warm rainy nights in .January and February. it moves to a r1f'arby pond to breed. The females attach Pggs to certain marsh grasses, such as the spikerush. 


having fun blowinq it 
San Pt>dro, Calif---Jolene Gearin, says she was poor before she inherited $200,000 four years ago. Now she's poor again and cheerfully admits, "We blew it." 
Mrs. Gearin was living in a $75-a-month apartment when she learned she would inherit $200,000 from the estate of her father Chester Hanson. With her husband, Leonard, a merchant marine seaman, and their four children, she waited through two years of court action for the money. Then taxes took part of it. 
"But when it came, it really wore us out spending it," she recalls. "We were just exhausted. We couldn't spend it fast enough." 
Where did the money go? 
"We bought cars and motorcycles for the boys, and a truck, and a $2,000 hi­fi...and clothes, and we put a down 
payment on a house, and the girls and I had all our teeth capped, and I had my breasts lifted ... 
"And. oh yes, we bought ski equip­ment...and we traveled ... we put 200,000 miles on one of the cars in one year... and Wl' all saw a psychiatrist...! invested $10.000 in the stock market and lost $4,000 of it ... and we spent $5,000 on new furniture, a washer and a dryer, small ap­pliances... "We paid cash for ..­l•verything ... " 
Lessons learned? "You can sure waste a lot of money on cars, and the stock market is a bad investment," Mrs. Gearin said. 
Lasting effects? "When we found out about the money, it brought the family togethPr. It was the first time in our lives that we really worked and planned together ... 
"After the money was gone we started fighting. They kept saying, 'Why didn't we spPnd it this way'?' But they were all there to Sp(•nd it and we all had fun ... 
Page 8 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, December 7, 1971 
michael jackson 

newman is newman is 
Once in a long while, someone like Randy Newman will come along, and people will stop and listen; for although Randy Newman is not like anyone else, he is not that much unlike you and me. One very obvious difference is that he sings. Another is something a little more involved. Like talent, along with the need to speak his mind; and the ability to do it through music. 
Although his name is fast becoming one of the most respected in the music business, Randy Newman, to a lot of people remains an enigma. The question keeps coming up, "Hey, what's this Randy Newman thing?" And they listen to the album, and they start to answer themselves, and then they stop. They play the album again. And maybe, just maybe, it will come across that Randy is doing something very special. He's singing a song in terms so straight-forward and direct that sometimes you bypass it, and sit there knowing that he's just done something, but you aren't quite sure what it is. 
And the truth of the matter is that you have to listen. Randy is a man who makes no pretentions about being honest; he just is. There is no muffling glitter to color up any empty spaces that may arise in his music. And if there are any, then they are Randy Newman Empty Spaces, and it is obvious why they are there. 
Wis music is a very personal thing, and what comes across, above all, is that he is at all times himself. His work is not the kind that is tailored for anyone else; his only compromises are internal ones. 
His first album, entitled simply "Randy Newman," is not only good, but it is also the kind that could easily be labeled a collection of singles. Each song is an in­dividual statement, and individual experience. It's not a particularly easy thing to pull together a total album concept when there are 76 people working on it with you. Randy Newman's album is an outstanding example that it can be done. 
Born in Los Angeles, California, on November 28, 1943, he spent the first three years of his awake life traveling with his family. First they moved to New Orleans, then Jackson, and then lived briefly in Mobile before returning to Los Angeles. By the time he was 
Here's power and pep for tired engines!_,.._,_ 
FOREIGN SPORTS CAR SPECIAL PRICE 4 CYL. PLUS PARTS
See us today for our 





$12.95

CERTIFIED CAR CARE 
(6 cyl. slightly higher) 
ENGINE TUNE-UP SPECIAL 
• CLEAN, regap spark plugs 
• 
CLEAN, adjust ignition points, inspect distributor • SET ignition timing • CHECK compression • CLEAN and INSPECT battery, cables, terminals • ADJUST carburetor, service air cleaner • TEST fuel pump • CHECK crankcase vent valve 

• 
INSPECT cooling system, adjust drive belts 



SERVICE 

Phone 255-4751 
------------·1 
fifteen, and a student at University High School, he was writing music for Metric Music Co. in Los Angeles. Graduating on time, he then moved to UCLA, where he majored in music composition for four years, and once again graduated on time. 
In the four years that elapsed between his graduation from UCLA and the release of his first album, Randy did little else but what he wanted: writing a little, reading a lot, maybe looking out of a window. Im­portant things. Among them, learning how to wait, for Randy isn't a man of immediate action. 
"I never really wanted to do anything. Really. I never have. My decisions have always been made for me. Much easier that way." Ambition is a secondary thing to Randy. If something becomes a need, then that is different. But until then, Randy has time to wait. 
In 1967 came marriage to Roswitha, his wife. And not long after came Amos Newman, their son. 
"You know, Amos is really a very underrated name. So is Harry now that I think of it. Yeah, you know ... " He may go on for some time unless you're careful. 
The truth of the matter is, there really isn't anything mysterious about Randy Newman. He gets nervous around tape recorders, smokes a lot, drinks Fresca, and probably reads more than anything else. His musical influences are few, mainly his two uncles, Alfred and Lionel Newman. He is, in essence, the guy next door who sings. 
But his music is something else. His song "I think It's Going to Rain Today" has been sung repeatedly by artists such as Dave Van Ronk and Joni Mitchell. It was also one of the hit singles to come off Judy Collins' "In My Life" album. Van Ronk calls him "the Hoagy Carmichael of the '60's." And he may not be that far off. Randy's songs are musical statements drawn out of his soul and put together with his head. Sometimes they seem like a cry, sometimes a wail from somewhere very far away. And sometimes like one long sigh. But the essence of them all is the unspoken feeling from which his songs have come, and to which you, as the listener, go. 



Tuesday, December 7, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 9 

mostly unmerger





LETTERS I I 
The following was written by a St. Ma•y's student to a friend at Notre Dame. It is not a personal letter, as much as an attempt to relate the feelings and decisions of the last few days. It was hoped that others might benefit by the letter. --ed. 
dear jim, 
of latl' you have been asking me "where's the story?". the reason that ihaven'tbeen able to answer you is that i haven't known, and still don't. that may be the story. the past week has been a busy one. work, the un-merger, but most of all thinking and feeling have con­sumed any time i would usually have available for story writing. maybe the best story is one about a group of people who were begin­ning to become cloistered within themselves, came out of themselves and unitPd in the face of dis-unification. 
as the end of the semester neared, most of us became caught up in our work, our thanksgiving vacations, etc., and began to only live with people, not taking the time to relate to them, or maybe i should say with them. the shock of the announced un-merger, the speculation of the future, the possibility of transfer, combined with a need for security, brought us out of ourselves ... me out of myself anyway. i began to think about transfer, about my friends not being here, about the long vacation ahead, and about my priorities. suddenly, it was very clear to me that the people i have been living with these past few months had come to mean very much to me. we all were forced to stop and look at our lives, what we wanted to do, what we thought. and, because of it, we grew closer together and more aware of what friendship and love really mean to us. 
the crisis of dis-unification unified us into a closer community than has existed yet this year. perhaps this is why i am hopeful and foresee good things. camarry 
tl'ach third grade alongside Sister Mary Christmastree. But now my bubble has burst, the light has bl'en snuffed out, myEditor: hopes have been dashed on the You apparently do not accept jaggl'd <•dges of broken promises. 
'ldtt'rs to tht' editor' and give What am I to do now? Notrethat 'fn·edom of the press' to I>ame will open its doors to SMC your n•aders: so undoubtedly you transfers in the fall, what is towill find it impossible to find become of so many young menspact' for this answer to your who hoped to someday earn aPditorial of November 15th "The degrel' from the hallowed halls ofOnly AltPrnative Left" <poor our beloved St. Mary's?
poor things\. 
My plight is dire indeed. ButShould you give •a reader th'e knowing the willingness of Notre t'hance to be heard, I would like Daml' men to help the underdogto commt'nd Sister Alma of Saint in times of need, I'm sure thatMary's College for her courage. I hl'lp is not far off.
is so Pasy to be "the good Joe" and say yes to demands, but it 
God bless,takes conviction and purpose to Francis the fourth floor Flanner say no. The men across the road freshman fag.
wantt'd to be 'good Joes' and now do nothing but complain about the conditions in their halls. 
Tht' reasons given by Sister Alma are factual and true. This <'t•rtainly is not the first student government body to try for parietals, and they have in each Editor: case been turned down by It was with some consternaion part'nts and trustees. that I read of Father Toohey's 
Your editorial which in-plea that amnesty be offered to dicentally, is p~rly written, ~r~ft resistors an~ ant~war a~­gross and insulting and highly llv.Ists who a~e now m pns?n ~r m immaturt', has a sentence which exile. Admittedly there IS httle intriques me to no end: "People subst~n~e f?r arguing that actually suffer for the stupidities AmPnca s . VIetnam a~venture of their adlllinistrators" -let's was anythmg but a mistake. just rl'verse that and it makes llowt'ver. for most of us, I think it g<lOd sense. is ~af~ to assert that ~his Anonymous r~·ahzahon came to us as lund­<Tht• watt•rmark 011 tht•l('tter was s1ght rather than through any St. Mary's Coll('g(' -t>d.) vision on our part.
Those few of us who did in fact forsee America's debacle in South l'ast Asia and felt suf­fici"'nUy rl'pelled by the carnage to steadfastly refuse to obey the law have paid an awesome price. l<:ditor: !<'or those who had the moral Hl•volt! Boycott! WP demand! stamina to n•main here and It's high time that all we challpnge the war in the courts it Notre Dame mt'n unite behind was a particularly heavy price. our sisters at St. Mary's in the I lowever it should be kept in virtuous eause of bringing these mind that those people have in two fir.t• institutions together. fact broken the law and in As a frpshman. I feel per­hrPaking a duly constituted law 
sonally chPated by th<' decision to iht'y havP been penalized. No call of tlw merger. I came to matter what their intention or Notrl' Dame under the false how noble their cause the presumption that I would some l'<'sistor has felt his comm1ttment day lw a part of the "Notre to hP sueh that he has defied the llamP-St. Mary's communitty. authority of his governmPnt. The 
In particular, I find that the outcomP has be(•n a particularly failun• of thP merger has im­ugly consequence -prison or posPd a sPrious obstacle to my l'XiiP. ;1cadPmic pursuits. I camP hpre Can a fissure that has been planning to major in I<:lem(•ntary <TPated hy the head-on clash of 
Education. hoping someday to authority and idealism be closed rdum to tht• scene of my hy tlw stroke of a pt'n? Such a childhood happiness -to go back position is patently naive. to St. Maria Albergetti's Grade l•:spPcially t'Onsidering that a St'hool in .Joplin. Missouri and similar stroke of a pen cannot 
makt' the dead rise, the blind see 
or rpstore limbs. 
Those who were unfortunate 
enough to be caught in the 
malstrom of Vietnam made their 
l'OnHnittment. To suggest that 
this committment can be 
rescinded by executive clemency 
is to look upon the morality of the 
Anwrican people as a slate that 
can be wiped clean with a damp 
doth. Even the most casual 
observor ean see that morality is 
in faet more complex. 
llistorically the American pl'Ople have not been warlike. Tlwre has been no great rush to enlist to fight in any conflict. Any great ment in history defied the power of the state to coerce their support of war. Henry David Toreau. Rt'rtrand Russell and the lkrrigan Brothers are some of the nwn who immediately come to mind. However, it should be noted that these men, like 

(;)Jandi, recognized the con seq u e n c e s of their actwns and accepted their outcome. In fact when Daniel Webster, visiting Thoreau in prison, asked him why he chose jail rather than paying his taxes to support-the Mexkan War, Thoreau replied, "What are you doing out there?" One might ask the same question of !<'ather Toohey. 
As one who has lived through his own particular hearbreak over Vietnam and is equally saddened by those who opted to forsake their eountry or go to jail, I cannot condone sweeping trouble under the rug through the stroke of a pen. It is the easy way out. Taking the easy way out got us into Vietnam in the first place. It would seem more appropriate to quietly endure our loss rather than excaberate wounds that are just beginning to heal. Mike Sullivan '72 
Editor: 

You noted on your December 
:l Pditorial that "Nuns, like most 
people in general, tend to harden 
their position when they're at-
INPERSONI . 


SHOW 
with the 

PENNSYLVANIANS 
IN CONCERT 
Athletic and Convocation Center Sunday, Dec. 12 
7:30 p.m. 
N D-SMC Students Special discount Prices 
I.odge·Floor·Platforms· $2 Lower Arena-$2 Blearhers-$1 
Present Student I.D. at Box Office Mon.. Sat. 9:00a.m. 
toS:OO p.m. 

taeked." 
Perhaps your discussion of the 
nwrger question would generate 
more light and less heat if you 
kt•pt the tone of your editorials 
less invective. 
Sincerely, 
Miehael Jones 
1'.0. BOx 78 
N D. 
l<:ditor: 
To the writer of the editorial 
article in Nov. 30, 1971 Ohst•rnr 
In time of trials people should work together not eondemn through ignorance. Call it what you may. temporary Pmotionalism, ignorance of history, or outright cruelty, there should be a public apology to the prt>sident and sisters of St. Mary's College also to the sisters of Holy Cross Order. 
In making the University of Notre DamP the great Catholic sehool the sisters sacrificed their college to make this place grow and be a place on the map. 
The Holy Cross Sisters worked here from sun rise to sun set and tht>n after that in the chapel for the University of Notre Dame as they would tell the many students coming in contact with them and all they asked for was a prayer. 
Today the sisters are seeking protection for their many retired mt'mbers rather than go on the county and all they get is abuse from the men of Notre Dame. 
Instead of degradation there should be a work of thanks and appreciation and if you really like 
PICTURE YOURSELF AS A PAULIST. 
First, picture a re­ligious Com­munity. A Community founded by an Ameri­
was a century ahead of his time. A man with a vision that came true. A man with a belief that a Community could be modern and flexible enough to meet the needs of the Church in every age as they arise. A Community that wouldn't lag behind the limes on leaden feet. A Community that would communicate through the spoken and printed word and one that w0uldn't be hampered by specific activities when new needs arise. 
Next, picture the men in lhis new Community. They would be flexible. Each one would use his own individual talenls in his own way and would be given the free­dom to do so. 
These are the Paulists. The modern religious Community. Keeping pace with the times. Concerned. Involved. 
If you can picture yourself as a Paulist, why not write for more information to: Rev. Donald C. Campbell, C.S.P., Voc:tlion Di­rector, Room No. 400 

415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 
Notre Dame then you would lovd the Sisters of Holy Cross. 
Speaking of bankruptcy, Notre Ilame could go under before St. Mary's College if useless spen­ding and waste is not eorrected. 
St. Mary's College has a long list of great alumnae and there ar<' as many Notre Dame alumni who will back up the facts. 
You came to Notre Dame to get a Christian t>ducation yet in your dt>sires you ask nothing but evil to St. Mary's College. Where has this great intt'llectual pursuit taken you, certainly not upward in christianity. 
Bro. Francis J. Gouhea. 
I•' r e s h m a n Co u n c i I 
Ml't>ting: 
7 pm tonight 
:!nd floor La Fortune 
All interested .students 
invitt'd for a diseussion of 
t lw nwrger. or lack 
tlwreof. 

:=:=:=:=:~:=:~;~:~;~:::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::;~: 
lot r ~pirit 
goarf
• 
TAKE TIME TO VISIT THE 
NEW 

AQUINAS BOOK SHOP 
GIFTS • BOOKS 
POSTERS 
LOVE NOTES GREETING CARDS RELIGIOUS 
EDUCATION MATERIAL 

ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME CAMPUS OFF JUNIPER ROAD 
RROWSERS WELCOME 
Fll[E PARKING 

OPEN MONDAY & THURSDAY TIL 7·00 PM 
AQUINAS BOOK SHOP 
18717 BULLA ROAD SOUTH BEND, IN 46ti37 PH. 272·1704 

---~---·~-·-----·-__,.! 
Page 10 THE OBSERVER 
Pakistan urges Soviet Union not to recognize Bengali rebels 
R~· llt-drick Smith <(') l!lil Nt-w York Times 
Moscow. Dec. 6--Pakistan 
Privately urged the Soviet Union 
today not to follow India's 
recognition of East Pakistan as 
the independant nation of Bangia 
Dl'sh. Well-placed Soviet sources 
said such a move was unlikely in 
the near future. 
Although Moscow has stead­fastlv backed India in its con­frontation with Pakistan, diplomatic sources said there was £>vidence that the Kremlin did not want to risk a rupture in diplomatic relations with the Hawalpindi government. 
Informants indicated that :\1oscow would probably keep some foreign aid technicians in Pakistan deliberately to demonstrate its desire to maintain ties with Pakistan, although, like other nations, it may seek to remove dependents of its officials for safety reasons. 
When the Indian government extended recognition to Bangia desh today, it was known to have anticipated Soviet gradualism on this question. 
"The Soviets will be very cautious," said one well-placed Asian diplomat. "They will only inch forward very slowly." 
Soviet sources said Moscow anticipated a short war between Indian and Pakistan and, A although concerned about Communist China's possible actions, was doubtful taht Peking would intervene militarily in the conflict, especially because of a recent political purge among the top command of the Chinese army. 
Well informed diplomats said the Indian strategy--coordinated with Moscow --was to achieve a quick and crushing victory over the Pakistani army in East Pakistan to enable a government of Bangia desh to begin operating 
in that region and to allow Indian troops to withdraw voluntarily. 
Only then, it was explained, would the Soviet Union go along with a cease-fire resolution at the United Nations. 
The Indian objective, as ex-· plained here, is to end all question about the establishment of Bangia Desh as a separate nation and thereby force other powers as well as Pakistan to In a 45-minute meeting with 
Andrei A. Fomin, director of the 
ministry's South Asian division, 
l\larker was reported to have 
('Xpressed strong disapproval of 
Bussian efforts to win a hearing 
at the United Nations for Bangia 
desh representatives and to have 
n•minded Moscow that 
Bawalpindi would interpret 
formal recognition of Bangia 
desh as an unfriendly act. 
The Soviet initiative at the 
United Nations on behalf of what 
the controlled Soviet press now 
calls the "National Liberation 
Front of East Pakistan <Bangia 
Desh l" was interpreted here as 
an important increase in Soviet 
advocacy of the East Pakistani 
independence movement. 
On rare occasions has the 
Soviet Union referred to Bangia 
desh rather than East Pakistan. 
But during Prime Minister 
Indira Gandhi's visit here in late 
September, Moscow insisted 
upon calling the region "East 
Pakistan" in a joint com­
munique. India disagreed and 


SMC question session 
This week Sr. Jeanne Finske, 
SMC academic dean, will meet 
with students to answer any 
questions they might have about 
their schedules in light of the non­
merger. 
Wednesday evening at 6 p.m. she will meet with juniors, Thursday at the same time with sophomores, and Friday at 6 with freshmen. in the Little Theatre 
Sr. Jeanne re-affirmed that freshman and sophomores should follow the aca~emic guidelines for the degree they intend to r·eceive listed in the catalogue published their freshman year. 
-----------­
There will be another PRap Center Benefit on Friday' December 17, at 7 PM , at Stepan C£>nter on the campus of the University of Notre Dame. The two featured groups are Johnny Littlejohn -back from a suc­cessful performance at the Notre Dame Blues Festival -and Simba. Free food will be provided as usual. There will be a donation of $1.00 at the door. 
accept it as a fact. The Indian .-------------­government, well-placed Pitt Club diplomats said, was confident as of now that the necessary Sign-ups and military triumph could be f 
achieved by next weekend, and payment or Western specialists said Christmas Bus. 
Moscow's evicent tactics were to play for time at the United Nations. Wed. Dec. 8 
Pakistan's ambassador, Jamsheed K. A. Marker, 
7:30pm to 8:30p.m
presented his government's complaints about Moscow's position to the Soviet,. foreign Room 2-D La Fortune ministry this morning, Pakistani-!---------­officials said. Christmas shop at your 
Golf Pro Shop 

Sled MT.WAWASEE  
T Bar 9 clec. rope tows Snow Machines, Ski School. National Ski Patrol. 800 Pnir of rentals, ATV Rentals, weekdays 11 AM-lOPM Wl'ekend & holidays 9 AM 10 PM Group Packages Available Mt. Wawasee New Paris ln. 219 831 2106.  

"in the Rock" 
-Golf balls gift wrapped -Alpaca Golfing 
Cardigans -Jantzen Golf shirts -Monogrammed Caps 
-M unsingwear Golf Jackets 
-Novelty items 
-Ski & Toboggan hats -Socks 
publish('d a different version of the communique, using the term, "I<:ast Bengal." 
Tass. the Sovet news agency, today blamed the "one-sided prejudiced position of the United States and the Chinese People's Hepublic" for the security Council's failure to agree on measures to end the war satisfactorily. 
Both the diplomatic maneuvering at the U.N. and that progress of the war were believed to be the primary topics at a mf'eting today between Dr. K.S. Shelwankar, the INdian am­bassador. and Vasily Kuznetsov, first deputy Soviet foreign minister. Indian sources said it was part of th daily exchange of information between the two governments. 
Tass also reported today the Indian recognition of Bangia desh in a very brief item without comment. It was not carried this afternoon . in Izvestia, the government newspaper. 


Tuesday, December 7, 1971 


Tec~:hh sleep-in 

A teach-in-sleep-in on the state of the un-merger will be held tonight beginning at 10 pm. 
The site of the first mass action on the Notre Dame campus is either the Administration building or LaFortune student center. Posters containing the exact information will be distributed earlier today. 
The purpose of the meeting, according to Eric Andrus, one of the organizers, "is to show solidarity between the two student bodies and to show support in order to achieve the goals set by the studnets and faculty." 
Discussions of the problems surrounding the merger reversal will highlight the evening with students and faculty from both campuses invited to attend. 
"Entertainment will be provided by one or two local musicians," Andrus noted, adding that "There is also the possibility of a midnight mass which would be celebrated by members of both campus ministries." 

...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 

Indiana Bell 
_____,__:._____ _______________.
, 

Tuesday, December 7, 1971 THE OBSERVER p 
Irish rack up second win, 83-76 
by "Lt>fty" Ruschmann '7:1 The distance between the Stadium and the Convo Center is a lot longer than it looks for someone attempting the tran­sition from football to basketball. Rut Willie Townsend made the move look quite natural in last night's 83-77 triumph over Western Michigan, taking team honors in scoring (21) and in rebounding (10). The six-point final margin is deceptive, considering how the pressing Irish maintained control of the game almost from the beginning. Western Michigan's Mike Steele scored the game's first bucket, followed by two Tom O'Mara free throws. Steele and O'Mara then traded buckets before Carl Coleman put Western in front 6-4. After that, the Irish broke loose on a 16-2 tear, paced by Tom Hansen's fine outside shooting. Trailing 22-9, the Broncos tightened up their defense, while center Chuck Washington broke out of hibernation to neutralize the Irish front line. Cold shooting by Notre Dame allowed their lead to dwindle to 29-22, before the Townsend brothers made their appearance, to the applause of the 8,828 Irish rooters, and opened things up again. Willie responded with sharp play at both ends of the court, combining his soft jumpers with Tom O'Mara's hot outside shooting to propel Notre Dame to its largest lead of the half, 48-32. Chuck Washington retaliated with four quick points before Willie's buzzer-beating goal fashioned a 50-38 lead at half-time. The first half was charac­terized by good shooting by both squads, with the Irish holding a 53-49 percentage advantage. But the telling factor was in shots 
taken, as Notre Dame got off 
thirteen more than Western. 
Roth squads fell victim to errors early in the second half, as Notre Dame's lead waned to 53-46 with 15:52 remaining. Valibus' jumper, followed by four points awarded Tom O'Mara after a pair of goaltending calls on Washington, made things more comfortable for Digger's squad. Western made another run at the Irish several minutes later, only to fall short again. After Mike Steele connected on a jumper and free throw, successive goals by Townsend, Hansen and Stevens put the Broncos in a 65-52 hole. 
Chuck Washington traded a pair of long-range baskets with Willie Townsend's pair of field goals. John Sperla then sand­wiched six points around another Townsend bucket to put the Broncos in contention one last time, at 72-64, with six minutes to go. 
Goose Novak then rolled off seven points in succession, highlighted by a three-point play, eoming on the heels of Sperla 's fifth personal. Novak's seven­point binge put his team on top, 79-64, with four minutes remaining, and the contest was decided for all but statistical purposes. Careless play, abetted by missed free throws, allowed Western to sneak within six with 
0:10 left to play, but Coach Phelps' first home victory had already been assured. 
Turnovers---49 of them--­marred the helter-skelter match, with the Broncos guilty of 27. Personal fouls were more or less even, Western collecting 22 of Notre Dame's 20. But it was superior shooting that told the story of the ballgame. Notre Dame enjoyed a 51 percent night fr.om the floor, compared to only 42 percent accuracy for the visitors. Game honors in both scoring and rebounding went to Washington, who finished with 25 tallies and 13 rebounds. 
Willie Townsend, who paced his team in accuracy as well as scoring, canned 10 of 16 shots. 

Swimmers triumph 
The Irish swimming team eame up a winner in the annual Notre Dame Invitational Relays Saturday, but the NO squad had to produce a strong finishing dfort to overtake surprising Drury College. 
The Irish trailed Drury 73-80 going into the final event of the meet--t~e 400-yard freestyle relay --but the NO quartet of Joe O'Connor, Mark Wilcox, Jim M£>agher, and Gene Krathaus churned home in that final event with a time of 3:26.2 --good £>nough for first-place honors. 
NO's first-place finish meant 14 points for the Irish, and it put 





The Graduate View 
=======================;====;;=~=~=~=~=========================================================::Getting Better 
It is quite obvious to anyone who has been here a few years that the 
. quality of Notre Dame hockey has improved enormously. Despite the unexpected losses at Michigan this past weekend, the '71-'72 Irish are continuing that improvement. The season record has worsened since '69-'70 but other factors indicate the upward trend in performance. First, a look at the Irish rosters reveals an interesting facet of coach Lefty Smith's program. One might expect a typical recruiting year to mean so many freshmen drafted to replace so many graduating seniors. This will probably be the case after this season, when five seniors depart, but it has not been true in the past. After three years of competition (as near as I can figure, owing to the changing nature of "official rosters"), 25 people have played one season for the Irish and have then not played the following year. Of these 25, only six left because of graduation. In other words, the other 19 all had eligibility remaining but were replaced by the more talented crop of incoming freshmen. This breaks down by seasons this way: after '68-'69, 13lost, three by graduation; then eight lost, no seniors; and four lost, three seniors. Second, NO's schedule has toughened considerably, especially since the Irish have entered the WCHA; but the Irish have scheduled the best in non-conference competition also. One way to look at this is to check the strengths of teams being added and dropped from the schedule. After the '68-'69 season, the Irish dropped six teams against which they were 9-1-0 and added seven teams against which they went 8-2-2 in '69-'70. After '69-'70, nine dropped, 14-2-0, and nine added (WCHA probation year), 6-13-1. This year, as the schedule reaches stabilization in the WCHA, five teams have been dropped against which the Irish were 5-5. Looking at this overall, in three seasons, NO has played 29 different teams with results of 5Q-32-6 and a win percentage of .610. Twenty of those teams no longer appear on the '71-'72 schedule and against those 20, the Irish were 38-12-4 (.760). Against the 9 remaining squads, the Irish were 12-20-2 ( .375); a systematic addition of tougher opponent!' Third, the improving quality of the individual player is mirrored i career scoring statistics. Fourteen people (nine currently sr around l have played or scored points in two or more seasons ( counting goalies). If a person plays two seasons then he has "comparison"; if he plays three seasons, he has three. Together, these 14 players have 28 comparisons. Of these, 25 a1 negative, 3 positive. In other words, in only three cases have Iris1 players improved their scoring over previous years. All three in stances came in '69-'70 when John Roselli, Phil Wittliff and Jim Cordes improved slightly over their '68-'69 figures. This illustrates how younger, superior talent has come along to help spread the scoring burden around. 
them ahead of Drury (who finished fifth in the final event) in the final standings, 87-84. The top two finishers easily outdistanced the rest of the six-team field. Valparaiso's Crusaders finished third with 57 points, just ahead of fourth-place Bradley, which totalled 56. 
Wayne State (47) and Oakland University (39) rounded out the scoring in the yearly event. 
Refore their dramatic eomeback in the meet's final <'vent, the Irish swimmers had displayed a well-balanced effort. The Irish gathered two firsts <ROO-yard free-style relay and 200-yard butterfly relay), two seconds <200-yard freestyle relay and 200-yard breaststroke relay), and three thirds (400-yard in­dividual medly relay, 200-yard backstroke relay, and 200-yard medley relay (before they produced their winning effort.) 
Notre Dame came out on top m the llOO-yard freestyle relay with a time of 7:41.6. Jim Kane was the Irish anchor man in that race, and O'Connor, Mike Wolz, and Meagher swam the three earlier legs. The Irish won the 200-yard butterfly-relay in a time of I:42.3. Ed (;raham was the anchor man in that one, and he got earlier support from Krathaus, George Bloek. and f'rank Fahey. 





WCHA standings 
W t T Pis. GF G.~ Nonh Dakota 5 3 11 14 :1:1 27 Wisconsin 5 1 0 12 ti II Notre Dame 4 4 0 1~ :19 :19 M1chi~an Tech ~ 3 0 12 29 22 Minn.-Duluth . 4 2 0 R 23 22 Colorado Col ~ ~ fi 2fi 24 Michigan ~ ~ 6 22 :111 Denver 2 2 4 16 17 M1rh Stat~ 2 4 4 13 20 Mmnesota I 7 0 2 IR :t1 
f"RIIIAV'S RESULTS Michi~an fi. !l<otre !lame:. tot) Nonh Dakota H. Denver 4 Wisconsin 4. Michigan State I Michigan Teeh 5. Minnesota I Mmn.·Dululh 6. Colorado Colle~.:c 5 
SHLIRDAV"S RESULTS Mich1gan 6. Notre Dame 5 Nonh Dakota 5. Denver 3 Wisconsin 4. Michigan State 3 Michigan Tech 5. Mmnesuta :1 Colorado College H. Mmn ·Duluth ·1 Bar\'ard II. Penn 3 Cornell 5. Brown 4 R PI 3. Sl. Lawn•nee 3 rt~rkson 4. Dartmouth 3 
GAMES TUESD.U 
t: S Olymp1rs al Minnesota 
ra!'IES FRI!HV Nor1h Dakota at ~llrhigan W1~consm al Colorado C•Jilt·~l' O~n\"l'r at ~hrhigan Stalt• 
ra~t:s snrno.w Nonh Dakota at ~lkh1gan Wisconsin 'II f"olorado t'q!h•J.:to 
c;.utt:s srso.-n· 
Denvrr at ~lll"hll!an Stat•· 


--.. -4-" !::~~--,.. . . ~ 
I _.-. ~--;::,. '!"t/lt\ " • · . .... · · 
. ·~~).·.:.;i<.f'l"...· . ·.. ···"7 '·-'~._..... ... ···~-;.·.. !?tltl¥t~,..,...~~
~I ~~~----... ·'.· _~_...... . ·,.,. . .. -·---~·..... • 
Willie Townsend scored 21 points to lead the Irish past West. Michigan 
last night at the ACC. 

Frosh cagers beaten 
by Joe Passiatore '74 
The balanced scoring attack of 
the Western Michigan freshmen 
nullified a 38 point performance 
by Notre Dame's Gary Brokaw 
last night, as the Irish frosh 
suffered a 73-63 setback. Aside 
from Brokaw, the Notre Dame 
offense turned in a weak effort, 
as Peter Crotty was the only 
other scorer in double figures 
with 10 points. The primary 
reason for the Leprechauns' 
impotent offense was their frigid shooting percentage of 29 per­cent. Notre Dame had 82 shots to Western Michigan's 57, but the Broncos made good on 45 percent of their shots. 
Brokaw's night's work included 
hitting a respectable 15 of 36 from 
the field, and 8 of 10 free throws. 
Western Michigan had four players in double figures. The Bronco offense was keyed by Frank Ayers, 22 points, and Charles Millinter, who had 21. Western Michigan also enjoyed supremacy in the rebounding department as they had 49 rebounds to Notre Dame's 22. 
The Leprechauns, despite their unimpressive shooting, dominated the action in the first half. Late in the period, however, the Broncos rallied to even the score 30-30 at halftime. Notre Dame's forte in the initial period was defense as coach Frank McLaughlin and the baby Irish employed a full court press similar to that of their varsity counterparts. The press was eventually to result in 40 Western Michigan turnovers compared to only 16 committed by Notre Dame. But as a result of the Leprechauns' inability to "buy a bucket" they were unable to take advantage of their fine defensive work. 
Chuck Mill inter made good on a tip-in and hit a 15-foot jump shot shortly after the opening of the second half to give the Broncos a lead they never relinquished. Notre Dame came back to knot the score at 50-50 with about six minutes left in the contest. However, Frank Ayers began to connect on medium range jumpers, and the Broncos opened up a 61-55lead with 2:48left. The baby Irish attempted what ap­peared to be a one man comeback 
as Brokaw got a hot hand towards the end. Any Notre Dame hopes of turning the game around were short lived, however, as Brokaw lacked the supporting cast. 
The Leprechaun record is now 1-2, as they were coming into tonight's ballgame fresh off an 80-79 conquest of Valparaiso's frosh, in which Brokaw again led the Irish with a 32 point per­formance. 

Fencers wzn• two 

Michael DiCicco, who oversees the Irish fencing team, is the winningest active Notre Dame coach. and last weekend his eharges put on a convincing demonstration of just why this is so. 
The Irish fencers opened their '71 season Saturday with a tri­m£>et at Culver Military Academy, and they completed the rlay's activities in typical DiCieco form -by defeating Vanderbilt 21-6 . and Indiana 23­-t. 
In gaining the sweep, the NO swordsm£>n got perfect pfforts from th<•ir top performers in each of the thr£>£> weapon categories. In thl' foil eompetition, Mike Cornwall went 2-0 against both Vanderbilt and I. U., and Matt Fruzynski and Hon Sollitto duplicated this feat in the sabre division. Rut epeeists Tim Taylor and Chuck Harkness posted the hest Irish records of the meet, as Paeh of them finished with 5-0 marks. 
Ovt•rall. the Irish fencers had trouble in only one event. They shaded the Hoosiers 5-4 in the foil division, but weren't threatened ... in any other areas. DiCicco's squad downed Vanderbilt in the foil competition, 7-2, and then ('oast£>d home in the sabre and Ppee columns. The Notre Dame liabre t£>am was 8-1 against \'andy and 9-0 against Indiana, and the epeeists were 6-3 against \"anderbilt and 9-0 against I.U. 
,.

The Irish Fencers won'thave to dPfend their 2-0 mark until after the holidays, when they will take on Ivy league representative Cornell. 
Tuesday, December 7, 1971 
Page 12 THE OBSERVER 



Money markets making· substantial dollar devluation 
by Clyde H. Farnsworth against the dollar. 
think will prevail when new rates !cl !!lit New York Times Market operators are con­are fixed. vinced that there will be a sub­
Yen today were trading nearly 
Paris. Dec. 6---The foreign stantial realignment, and in 11 percent above the old parity,exchange markets have taken trying to outguess the authorities while marks were nearly 13 over some of the work of the are bidding up German marks, percent higher. 
negotiators in the world Japanese yen, Swiss francs, The price of gold hit $40 an 
monetary crisis as the major British pounds and other ounce in Zurich, which matches 
currencies continue to appreciate currencies toward levels they the high set in early 1968 during a 
Reporters film war near Dacca 
Gunners were jubilant when they hit an Indian 
(continued from page 3) aircraft. From their uncamouflaged bunkers tiaircraft fire, as they made four passes. One was around the airstrip they could be heard shouting hit, burst into flames and crashed nearby. Moslem phrases in Arabic. 
The planes --Mig's, Gnats and SU-7's -fired Fewer people were on the downtown streets than rockets and strafed but did not bomb , according to usual during the day but hundreds could be seen. a government official. Their targets were the Newspapers appeared by midmorning and were aircraft and hangars. They did not raid the military being hawked on corners. A few beggars were out. cantonment nearby or damage the airstrip. There Most shops remained closed but some tea stalls was speculation that they might want to save the were open and men were sitting in them and strip for an invasion later on. chatting. 
Officials said the only other town hit by Indian A huge mushroom-shaped cloud that filled the 

.. 
aircraft was Chittagong, the targets there repor­southern sky most of the day was thought to be tedly being fuel storage tanks and a refinery. The from a burning fuel-storage depot at Narayanganj, planes were said to also be hitting Pakistani about 10 miles south of Dacca. A government of­positions along the border in advance of Indian ficial said it was a jute-processing plant that had troops. been set afire by guerrillas. 
The sky was filled with puffs of white smoke from It is 10:02 p.m. and it is quiet again. No air raids bursts of ground fire during the airport raid. yet tonight. A dog is yelping. 
American Indian book collection begun 
A 16 year old Crow Indian maiden, "Montana Shane", posed for this old tintype in Miles City of the Montana Territory. This and other photos preserved in the archives of Notre Dame's Memorial Library are the early signs of a new collection of books on American Indian history that will be available to an increasing number of Native American students attending the University and a faculty committee organized to serve their needs. 
Approximately three dozen prospective students from the Hosebud Reservation in South Dakota will be visiting the campus beginning Thursday to meet. share meals and attend classes with Notre Dame students during the weekend. 
A program of Indian dances, songs and short welcoming messages is planned for 8 p.m. Thursday mec. 9) in Washington Hall. Students wishing to loan their basketball ticket to one of the visitors for the Saturday afternoon contest with St. Louis University are asked to contact their hall president. Channing Bracke of the Robert F. Kennedy Institute for Social Action is coordinating student volunteer efforts <Photo courtesy of Frank Clark, Library microfilm department l. 
The Hall President's Council Presents: 
Budweiser Tiffany Glass Candles 
Beautiful Christmas Gifts 

-... 
Six different scents 
HPC giving all profits to give Christmas jobs to South Bend kids 
See your Hall President today Supply limited 

., 
dollar crisis that was temporarily resolved by halting central bank operations in the gold market. 
The 20-cent an ounce increase in the gold price was produced more by the India-Pakistan conflict than monetary un­certainties. 
Wealthy Indians and Pakistanis are traditionally among the world's great gold hoarders. Gold is smuggled into the subcontinent from points in the Middle East and sells for ·at least twice the price prevailing in Europe. The conflict was ex­pected to boost this demand. 
The currency changes in the market have assumed great importance in the battle over the realighment, in which the United States is seeking maximum competitive advantage for the dollar. 
The weaker the dollar is in the 
markets,  the  stronger  is  the  
American  position  at  the  
bargaining table.  

The process was accelerated after a meeting of the group of 10 finance ministers in Rome last week. Figures put out today by the West German Central Bank in Frankfurt show that other currencies have appreciated 0.3 percent against the dollar since last Monday, on a basis weighted in terms of trade with the U.S. 










