:::::::::::::::::::::=:~=~~=~=~=:=~=~=~=~=~=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:::::~:::~:!:!:~:~:~:=:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::; 
THE SLC IS MEETING TODAY 
AT THE CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION IN ROOM 112 AT 4:15. THE OBSERVER URGES ALL STUDENTS TO GO TO THE MEETING, AND BY THEIR 
PRESENCE PROTEST THE REJECTION OF HALL tf AUTONOMY BY THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.AND THE I ll~f SANCTIONS DRAWN UP BY THE AD HOC COMMITTEE \lll 
~1LC to view tough rules 
b~ A. T. Darin 
. It would establish penalties for Tough sanctions for violations Infractions of visitation hours 
of university parietal, alcohol ranging from denial of personaland drug regulations are called parietal privileges (minor) to for in the SLC's Ad Hoc Com­prohibition from residing on 
mittee on Disciplinary Matters. campus for two semesters and The report that is to be presented forfeit of the Security Deposit to today's Student Life Council (major). meeting. The report is in 
Violation of alcohol regulations response to a letter by Board of could result in a denial of the 
Trustees Chwirman Edmund right to have alcohol in the hall Stepoan which specifically asked for a month to disciplinaryfor such sanctions. 
(Continued on page 5) 




Vol. VI, No. 12 Serving the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Community Monday, September 27, 1971 

InPIRG Kicks Off First Meeting Here 
50 people show, ~~things -look good, "says chairman 
by Anthony Abowd 
More tha~ fifty peop_Ie from eight Indiana campuses at­tended the first statewide convention for the newly formed Indiana Public Interest Research Group (lnPIRG) here 
yesterday. Caren Calish, a former worker for Nader's Center for the Study of Responsive Law acted as the informal chairman. 
"This is the first organizational meeting to plan a coor­dinated statewide effort. We are trying to find out whether we have enough support in the state. After this meeting I'd say things look good," she said. 
PIRG was first suggested by Ralph Nader last year. He intended it to be a student run organization to push for en­vironmental protection, corporate .responsibility and related issues. 
Two states, Minnesota and Oregon, have already established full scale programs. Many more states besides Indiana are in the planning stages. 
According to Brian Shuster, a student at Indiana University and an originator of InPIRG, In PIRG has been "a bunch of individual campuses." 
"Now we hope to become a unified statewide body. This is the major goal of InPIRG at this time," Shuster said. "lnPIRG is Nader inspired, but not Nader run -the university students of Indiana will run this program, he added. 
InPIRG's PURPOSE Pete Homer, an organizer of lnPIRG at ND pointed out the objectives of InPIRG were the most important aspect of the 
(continued on page 6) 
•

What InPIRG lS: Maybe 93,000 Nadars 


Hrod Baker  Judy Rowe  
Ill Hloomington  Junior IU Northwestern  
InPHIG  InPRIG  






by John Abowd To promote local organization, some IU students are Dave Hersch, a grad student from IU, noted that half planning a state-wide "problem-solving" tour and a the vocal participants in the state convention were The InPIRG is not an incorporated organization yet . possible speaking tour by Ralph Nader. from Bloomington. but at least eight campuses across the state have ac­Sami Jadallah, president of the Indiana Student "When we do set InPIRG up as a state-wide 
tive branches working on local development. Association, plans to use his organization to negotiate organization, the problem of IU Bloomington These campuses represent over 93,000 students once with the Indiana University administration to promote dominating the work will be our major obstacle," they are fully organized. the student taxation plan which involves University Hersch said. 
"We probably won't incorporate until the second or collection of the money. "One university," he continued, "probably IU is third state convention. It is essential to organize the Tht> following is a run-down of tht> local chapters of going to be pushing others with what they think are state as a movement and not allow a single campus like InPIH(I and their state of development: good ideas and that's going to be the biggest hassle." Indiana University at Bloomington to dominate," Fred IU at Bloomington The Bloomington staff already have committee 
assignments and specific areas of responsibility. They 
Baker, a spokesman for the state organization said. The Bloomington InPIRG has a core group ·Of 20 
are the only JnPIRG which has reached that level of
"We are trying to utilize the vacuum effect," Baker students including several who are receiving a full added, "there is always room for new people to move semester of credit (17 hours) for organizing the organization. 
(Continued on page 5)

into the organization." campus. 

Page 2 THE OBSERVER 
Saturday, October 2 8:30pm in the ACC 


Beahefth 

Tickets $4 $3 $2 ~ at the Stu,de~t U.nion Ticket Office& Dining Halis 
presented by Student Union Social Commission andACC 
Bo~s 

...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 
Indiana Bell 
Monday, September 27, 1971 


Barkett: No Response .from Trustees to letter 
by Jim Gresser 
In an interview, Student Body President John Barkett ex­pressed concern over his recent letter to University Board of Trustees Chairman, Mr. Edmund Stephan. The letter was written over two weeks ago and, except for a brief conversation between Barkett and Stephan before the Nor~hwestern game, Sept. 18, the Chairman has not formally acknowledged receipt of the letter nor answered the issues raised. 
Barkett said that he understood how busy the Trustees must be and how much time they give to the University, but he believes that what he wrote was very important and warranted a speedy response. 
Discussing possible sanctions, Barkett noted that the Student Life Council will begin discussion today on sanctions for violations of campus rules and regulations. In particular, Barkett feels that parietal hours recieved "far from intelligent settlement." 

Barkett said that he hoped that total~y justifi~ble in lieu of the 
Stephan and the Board did not believe sanct10ns to be an "irrevocable demand, nor even universally applicable," because the idea of sanctions arose from qnly a few cases as reviewed by the Appeals Board and not by a wide variety of violations. 
Barkett called for an increase 
Cl1ff's Notes are great any time you need help in literature! We recommend buying early so that you can use them as you study the ass1gned play or novel and as a helpful review pnor to exams. Get the Cliffs Notes you need today. You"ll see why they"re the preferred study a1d of millions of sludents nationwide. (PS.) If your dealer"s out of a title. he can get another fast w1th Cl1ff's ··Hot Line"'. 
~ 

_LC.liffS~ImeL ~ 
.
.
.
Nearly 200 titles-always available 
• : : 
: • 
.
.
•
.
.
. . 
: 


.John Barkett in communication between the student body and the Board of Trustees. He quoted Stephan as stating in March of this year that, "during the past few years, there appears to me to have been considerable improvement on communication between the student body and the Board of Trustees and I confidently look forward to a continuation of this trend." 
Barkett, again saying that he looked foreward to this crucial increase in communication expressed hope that Stephan'~ delay in answering the letter was purely an oversight. . He added however that even if It was an oversight it was not 
gravit~ of the Issues and the need ~or actiOn. He went on to say "I JUSt feel that I -and all the s~udent.s -deserve more con­SI~er~twn. tha.~ we've gotten in this situation. 


on campus 
4:15 movie-"the selling of the pentagon" in room 127 nieuwland science hall. admission is free 
10 to 4 art exhibit-original graphic art by old and contemporary masters. prints will be sold. in the great hall in o'shaughnessy. 

Students to sit on A&L council 
Five students will sit on the Arts and Letters College Council with full voting privileges this year, according to Dan Moore, president of the A&L student advisory council. 
This is the first time in the history of the Council that students have been given full membership. 
A committee of three members of the student advisory council and one faculty member will select the student represen­tatives from applications sub­mitted before Friday, October 1. 
Application may be submitted to Moore or Dean Frederick J. Crosson, of the College of Artss and Letters. Only the name and phone number are needed. All interviewing will be conducted next week. 
Moore, who will sit on the Council ex officio, said one sophomore, one junior, one senior and one at large representative will be selected from the Notre Dame student body only. 
"St. Mary's student representation will be taken up at the first meeting," Moore added . 
The council seated five St. Mary's faculty for the first time this year. The agreement to seat students was reached in February, before the formal merger. The council will make interim arrangements for St. Mary's representation until the merger is complete . 
wherever books are sold. Moore expects the merger of 
Only S1each ND and SMC academic programs will be the major order of business for the council this year. 
Monday, September 27, 1971 
THE OBSERVER Page 3 
The. Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacat1ons by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St.
Ca~npaign on to aid refugees 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 
b)· Andy Wenparczyk, Jr. 
The Student World Concern Organization, under the leadership of Tom Hamilton, is actively pursuing a campaign to raise funds for the relief of the Bengali refugees in India and those still caught up in the strife in Bangia Desh. 
Recently they sent out a mailing to 2,200 colleges. Next W('ek 1,100 more will receive this newsletter requesting students to be a part of a letter writing campaign to their congressman, senators, and the President. 
Each letter will demand that all military aid to West Pakistan be cut off, aid for relief no longer be given to the West to distribute to East Pakistan, and a large increase in direct aid to East Pakistan, Hanilton said. 
Hamilton feels the reason why military aid is still being given to the Pakistani government is because President Nixon made a deal with Wahya Khan, the president of Pakistan. 
Khan arranged for Henry Kissinger, Nixon's national security advisor, to go to Peking in exchange for foreign aid, Hamilton added. 
Eighteen volunteers staff the Notre Dame SWCO. There are chapters on most campuses in the country, Hamilton said, and also 18 foreign countries. 
It is an outgrowth of Students for Biafran Relief,founded in 1969 to help the refugees from Biafra. 
It calls itself an "interested student organization dedicated to the eradication of social in­justice," according to Hamilton. 
East Pakistan has been un­dergoing one disaster after another. First there was a devestating cyclone, then a murderous civil war, and now a cholera epidemic. 
Hamilton says this com­bination of events makes it the "worst tragedy known to mankind"'. If the world launches an airlift twice the scope of the 1949 Berlin airlift, two million people will still die. 
But Hamilton believes that if relief operations continue at their present pace as many as twenty­five million refugees will die 


Hall Presidents undecided on hall improvement money 
The Hall Presidents generally still are undecided regarding the use of $13,000 which should be available to them for the im­provement of their halls. 
l<.:d Motto, Sorin president, said that their proposals have not been drafted. Bob McNichols, president of Stanford, stated that !h(' improvement funds will be thP first priority of their next hall council meeting. 
The funds probably will be used for such things as remodeling and improv('ment of lounges and study rooms. 
For instance, Jim Sweeney, president of Grace, said there was a large unfinished room in the basement of his hall which could be used as an extra lounge, if Grace gets an appropriation. 
The specific plans of each hall will be submitted to the Senate Finance Committee sometime this week. It is hoped that the report of the Finance Committee can be presented to the Senate Oct. 3, for final approval. 
·································~··················
. .
.
. 
.
.
. 
• 



save time•••sbopquiek and easy oneampus 
You've got an emergency? You're late with a 
gift or greeting card? You need a textbook fast? 
Run to your nearest store...your College Store, 
right on campus. That's where you're pretty 
sure to find what the situation calls for...at the 
postagp paid, Notre Dame Ind. 46556.
from all causes. An uprising is expected sometime in October, Hamilton ,.------1-U-NIOR LEAUGE 
claimed fifty thousand to four 
hundred thousand people leave 
the country each week. India's economy is being
strained to the limit by trying to take care of the refugees. SWCO does not handle any 
money. They advocate sending contributions to: CARE, Inc., 660 First Avenue, New York, N.Y., 10016; American Red Cross, 17th and D streets, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006; UNICEF, 331 E. 38th Street, New York, .Y., 10016. 
THRIFT SHOP 
o 30 000 't d d f it 
ver ' 1 ems, new an use urn ure, Clothing, housewares, etc. Stepan Center Thurs., Sept. 30, 9:00AM to 6:30PM, Friday, Oct. 1, 9:00AM to 12 noon 
-ALL YOU CAN EAT!­This semester pizza hut offers two weekiy specials 
-Monday night from 5 to 9 $125
all you can eat -per person 
..sunday thru Thursday, with ND or SMC ID, any large pizza -$2°0; any small pizza -$1°0 • 
One pizza per ID. 
PIZZA HUT 2 EDISON 



PIZZA HUT 



price you want to pay. Shopping here is quick and easy...because we're here just to serve you. 
Notre Dame Bookstore 
·············•·············•··········••••·•··•··•• 
issue of the National Lampoon. For the 75 cents you would have spent on a football program to find out that Billy Glefson, tight end for the Purveyors, hails from Mofongo, Indiana, and majors in port construc­tion, you'll have something to do during half time when the Asher B. Durand High School Large Drum and Aimless Marching Corps slides into John Philip Sousa's "Bataan Death March" for the fourth time. You'll be reading a fifteen-page Mad parody; "l25th Street," the educational TV show where those adorable Muthas, Big Rat and the Cocaine Monster, teach ghetto children their place; "Magical Misery Tour," which records the Beatles' trip to a land where aiJ you need is a lawyer; "The Final Seconds," a gridiron gripper starring those inseparabl~ chums, Moose Nixon and Ruff MitcheiJ; and "Right On!", the same campus war game played for years in army think tanks and radical encounter groups. And much more. The Back to S""oo] issue of the National Lampoon is on sale at newsstands everywhere. 
Monday, Se~tember 27, 1971
THE OBSERVER 

c .C·[_ L c c c c L



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Edito•·-in-f'hief Busint"ss Manager Glen S. Corso .James Jendryk 
Att successful newspapers are ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They 
never defend anyone or anything of they
Encutive Editor Ad Manage•· 
can help it; if the job is forced upon them, they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else.·-H. L. Mencken, 
T.C. Treanor Bill B<lUerle 
Founded November 3, 1966 Notre Dame, Indiana Business 283-7471 News 2113-1715 

Showdown at the CCE 
If this were a prep school for a monastary, the new sanctions suggested by Father Chambers and Messers. Thorton and Tuschar might be appropriate, The proper note of loving but firm paternalism was there; it was, in its essence, an affirmation of the old verities (poverty, chastity, and obedience.) But this isn't a prep school for a monastary, and as a result the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on Disciplinary Matters is an affront to every member of what was once called (apparently seriously) the "Notre Dame Community." 
Aside from vague passages and poor grammer, the Report reads like a phased program for a return to 1930. To begin with, the report differentiates between "minor" ("in which the time limits have not been observed") and "major" ("in which the moral standards of the University have been broken") parietal violations. One is forced to wonder which "moral standards" the report means. The "moral standards" printed on the Sacred Heart Holy Cards? Or the "moral standards" by which the University suspended three students who were found innocent by a court of law of the charge of posessing narcotics. 
In any event, the punishment for a "minor" violation will be "denial of per­sonal parietal privileges for a period of no less than two weeks,"(sic) if the recommended sanctions are accepted by the SLC. In the case of a "major" violation "the person will be prohibited from residing on campus for the balance of the semester during which convicted and the following full semester, and the forfeiting of the Security Deposit." (note the capitals.) Oh well, it could have been worse. The committee could have recommended castration ("denial of personal parietal privileges for life.") 
Ifyou're reaching for a scotch to help alleviate the pain, make sure nobody else is in the room. According to the proposed sanctions, if "a private party" develops into "a party of a public nature" the person in whose room all this developing takes place is liable to "disciplinary probation" (that's when they say "one more and you're out" and write home to your mommy and daddy) "for a period of no less than one full academic semester." 
And God help you if you're a marijuana (quaintly termed "marihuana" in the report) addict! A whole potpourri (no pun intended) of punishment awaits you if the sanctions are accepted. They include suspension for the remainder of the semester plus the next semester (for "non-profit" pushing) to "disciplinary probation" for using the accursed stuff, to "four hours of constructive activity" (going from hall to hall telling about your wretched life on drugs?) for merely having it in your possession. 
To examine each stupidity of the report would probably take more space than to reprint the damn thing, so we chose to do the latter (see story on page 1.) While you're reading the report, keep in mind the fact that Trustee's Chairman Ed­mund Stephan has chosen to ignore the studiously civil letter sent to him from Student Body President John Barkett and HPC Chairman Buz Imhoff. 
The question remains: what can students do to encourage the SLC to reject those horrendous sanctions? Student Body President John Barkett will certainly lead the fight against them, but such leadership will be aided by a massive and silent demonstration of student support. 
The SLC meets today at 4:15 in room 112 of the Center for Continuing Education. Iffive hundred students show up, we think the SLC might get a pretty good idea of how the student body feels on this issue. 

Rut, son, with parietals enforced, Notre Dame will keep its "good•·eputation." 
Righteous On~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Peace 
~ ..~.·:::::.:-~..-,...·-""""-:-~--:--.............. $~~--~ :Sam Wilson 
One seldom has an opportunity, today, to hear a great speech. Hollow rhetoric has replaced the old lyrical truth; the rich sim­plicity of Lincoln one hundred years ago has been replaced by the windy poverty of Nixon. So be it. 
But it's not impossible to hear a great speech, and when one does, 
something of the truth of it remains with him. So it was with John 
Hessler's Valedictory address, and me. The address, republished 
in the Scholastic was on the truth, and on lies. It was for the truth. 
llalf the parents walked out. 

I was reminded of the address last Wednesday, when I read Tom 
Bor,holdt's Observer column, "The Twenty-Six Year Old 
Dinasaur" <He meant Dinosaur; the Observer occasionally will 
massacre stuff like that.>. The column was well-written and 
tightly-argued and all that, but it was the stuff that comes out of 
armchair generals and amateur IBM executives. It :1rgued, 
basically, this: in order to have peace, a few important nations 
have to have weapons taht can wipe out humanity, so that other 
important nations would not dare to initiate war. 
In order to have peace. 

In order to have peace, we're going to have to spend three-fourths 
of our national budget on instruments of death. In order to have 
peace, we'll have to keep faith in the sanity of the leaders of other 
important nations. Or in the sanity of our own leaders. In order to 
have peace, we have to fight for six years in Viet Nam because, as 
Mr. Bornholdt said, that nation doesn't have a goodly number of 
hydrogen weapons. 

That is the lie that John Hessler was speaking of. The lie that 
posits war as the only means of keeping peace. 
The lie has become insitutionalized, and it dies hard. But it is 
dying. Half the parents of graduates may have walked out on John 
Hessler's speech, but the graduates did not. 
They didn't because John Hessler gave them an alternative to the 
institutional lie. He gave them the truth, and he gave them a vision 
of peace. 

"It is not sweet and just to die for the fatherland." (he said), "We 
have not got to make the world safe for democracy. We have not got 
to insure the self-determination of the peoples of Southeast Asia. 
we have not got to be murdering mankind in pursuit of crazy 
illusions. It is not sweet and just to die for anything." 
It is time, then, to implement that vision. The youth of this nation 
-the youth which saw the truth in John Hessler's vision-must make 
that vision a concrete reality . 

We must show this nation's Tom Bornholdts -and they are 
everywhere in the government -that there is a better way to keep 
the peace than to stockpile nuclear weapons. It is to be free and 
peaceful men. When there is an opportunity to build up more 
nuclear weapons, we must pass it by so that we can tear down the 
ones we have. When there is an opportunity to intervene in another 
nation's affairs, we must turn it down so that we can become a 
antion of peacemakers. When other nations, living in lies, call us in 
belligerence, we msut answer them with the song of peace. 
Disarmed and open, we can still face the world. The Soviet Union 
and the People's Republic of China <the two top bogeymen; God 
knows who we'll be afraid of in ten years) will learn that no man is 
a slave if his soul is free-if that's what they're interested in finding 
out. Personally, I don't think so. I think they know it. 
And I think it's time for us to know it. 
Managing Editor: Don Ruane John Abowd, Jerry Lutkus, T.C. News Editor: John Abowd Treanor SMC Editor: Ann Conway Layout Design: John Abowd f<'eatures Editor: rick smith Layout Execution: Don Sian­Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson camano, Glen Corso, A.T. Darin Night Editor: Marty Miller Controllers of the Night: John Proofreading: .Jim Roe Brady, rick smith Headlines: Jim McDermott, 
Monday, September 27, 1971 
THE OBSERVER t:»age 5 
.. ----------·-------­
The envelope, please-here they are-the Sanctions 
TO: STUDENT LIFE COUNCIL minimal is that the person will be offense. it is recommended that 
MEMIH•:HS prohibited from residing on the minimal penalty be no less 
campus for the balance of the than suspension for the balance !<'HOM: AD HOC COMMITTEE semester during which convicted of the semester during which ON f>ISCIPLINARY MATTERS and the following full semester, convicted and the following full 
and the forfeiting of the Security semester. 
DPposit.

The judicial and disciplinary 
procedures have undergone Alcohol --The major question c. A person convicted of drug use constant revision at Notre Dame ht>rf' is one of hall parties, which should be first offered thefor the past several years. Much rt>fers to the fact that alcoholic possibility of rece1vmgtime has been spent on just consumption is prohibited in prt1fessional counseling. If thegetting eodes and judicial bodies public places. The sources of this person does not desire suchapproved and established. The infraction are generally either a counseling, the minimal penaltyresult has been confusion in party planned in a public room or will be disciplinary probation. 
regards to the proper roles and a private party which developes 
functions of the persons or boards into a party of a public nature. 
:l. We recommend that theinvolved in the disciplinary For the first sort of violation it is I>Pan of Students or the process. This report, then, is an n•eomml•nded that the minimal l niversity Board in meting out attt>mpt to answer some of the penalty be a denial of the right to more than the minimal penaltiesrecent questions raised by the have alcohol in the hall in which should consider a difference inBoard of Trustees, and is a thl' party occurred for a period of the intrinsic hazard potentialpartial attPmpt to deal with the no lt>ss than one month, and this between marihuana and otherdisciplinary situation as a while. violation will be handled by the narcotics.

Wl• trust that you will give some llall Life Board. In the second 
rPfll•ction to the following sort of case, it is recommended PHOBATION
l hat the person (persons) to be

proposals before our first 
lllPl'ting. 
alleged in the infraction be the 
This committee sees the need
occupant( occupants) of the room 

since some of the recommendedSANCTIONS from which the party developed. 
penalties are or include probation 
Tlw minimal penalty for an in­

that the nature of this sanction be
fraction of this sort would be

In an attempt to answer the defined. We recommend that
disciplinary probation for a

rPqu(•st of the Board of Trustees one there be two levels of probation:in rPgard to sanctions, this period no less than full 
('onduct Probation --Con­
academic semester, and this

committee recommends that sidered to be serious warning, but 
violation will be handled by the

there bt.• l'Stablished a policy of one in which the parents of theminimal pPnalties to be observed Dean of Students or the accused will not be notified. This
University Board. A:1y individual

by both the Dean of Students and means that conviction of a secondthe University Board in dealing found to be guilty of alcoholic offense committed during the
eomsumption will have a

with infractions of University probationary period will lead to
minimal penalty of Conduct

Hull's and Regulations. Since a 
dismissal from his hall of
Probation for a period of no less

lack of responsibility in regards residence. In this action the
than one full academic semester

to s!'veral of the rules of the rector should be notified.
and a denial of alcoholic

University has been cited by Disl'iplinary Probation --To be
privileges for a period of no less

the Board of Trustees, this 
interpreted as one step short ofthan a month.
committee recommends that the suspension from the University
Nm·l·olics --This committee

StudPnt Life Council establish at for a period including the
rPcognizes the complex nature of

this lime minimal penalties for semester in which convicted and 
this problem and, therefore,

these infractions and deal with the following full semester. In!he other rules at a later date. recommends that the Hollowing this action the parents or guar­
actions be taken with recognition 

The rules that have become a dians and rector are to be conscious concern of the of the possible need for revision notified.
in the year and a fuller treatment

UnivPrsity this committee feels In regard to notification of the to be those regarding visitation of the problem by the Student parents of the student, it isLife Council:hours, alcoholic beverages, and recommended that this be donethe use of narcotics. I. A recognized degree of by the Dean of Students whether\'isitalion Hours --Infractions difference in the following: or not he has disposed of the case. 
of the approved hours for a. pushing drugs for a profit 
visitation will be considered to be b. pushing drugs on a non-profit IIALL EXPULSIONPither minor or major.A minor basis 
infraction is defined as one in c. use of drugs In the recent letter of Mr. 
d. possession of drugs

which the time limits have not Stephan's, the right of a rector to
)){'en observed, while a major dismiss a student from hallinfraction is defined as one in 2. Recommended penalties for residence is reaffirmed. Thiswhich the moral standards of the the above in number 1: committee recommends that theUniversity have been broken. a. Because this sort of action is a student who is so invited retamThe minimal penalty for a minor serious threat and danger to the his right of appeal as stipulatedinfraction is the denial of per­University community, the on page 30 of the Student Manual. 
sonal parietal privileges for a sanction shall be expulsion and The appeal, if made, is to theperiod no less than two weeks. In no less. 
Dean of Students. 
thl' case of a major infraction, the b. Since this is also a serious 
I 

Except for Purdue (money problems), Indiana U's set for lnPIRG 
commuter college," Rahner
Since the Gary campus is (Continued from page 1) primarily commuters, the only noted. 
Both Phillip Faccenda and Fr.
method of reaching large

Purdue Thomas Blantz, University vice­
numbers of students is through 

presidents, are reportedly in­Purdue's branch of the con­the classroom. 
terested in the plan.
sumer protection group is only Miss Rowe noted that a one week old but it already has a program of individual petitions Rahner saw securing separatecore group of 29 students with circulated during classes con­·approval from the two ad­another 75 who have volunteerec ducted by sympathetic ministrations as the only majorto work. professors would be "best suited obstacle here. Unification of the.Jim Brennan, a senior business to the IV Northwest campus." 
billing offices, he thought, wouldeconomics major, saw approval The core group here consists of solve the problemfor the use of Purdue's billing 25 students who have no office or IU South Bendsystem to collect the student tax phone yet. 
Ann Zapp and Beth Blue, both as their major stumbling block. Notrl" Dame -St. Mary's South Bend residents, are the
"I'm pessimistic about being able to get something like the A group of fifteen students are only active organizers at the 
IUSB campus. They plan
lnPIB.G plan through. The already organizing the ND-SMC 
organizational meetings and
trustees turned down a proposal InPIRG chapter in spite of the extensive development of theirto increase fees $1.00 in order to fact that the first organizational publicity program.
form a legal aid center. " meeting will be held this week. 
"We plan to work in close"We may have to explore other Bill Rahner, one of the ND cooperation with the Notre Damt means of financing at Purdue," InPIRG group, and Dianne group to avoid duplicating ef­Brennan said. Chermside, the SMC represen­fort," Miss Zapp said.

tative, thought the job at this 
Ball Statl" UniversityIU Northwest campus would be "easier than Ball State has a core group of 15most of the other schools." 

students according to organizerThe emphasis at this campus, "The use of the residence halls, ac­Shari Dickey, a junior in naturalaccording to Randy Downs and cafeteria and library make resources. The group is still in the
cess to most of the student body

.Judy Rowe. both juniors will be a planning slages. 
on gathering faculty support. here much easier than at 
rare situation which there exists reasonable risk of physical or Every student has the right to ('motional danger to the student 
appeal as the policy is delineated himself or to his fellow students. 
in the Disciplinary Code. Whether such a risk is involved 
llowever. the Appeals Board will be made at the discretion of 
upon affirming a conviction does the Dean of Students. 
not have the power to lower the This committee also recom­
penalty imposed below the mends that an appeal be made in 
minimal level. A conviction can the following manner: Within 48 
be reversed only on one of the hours (excluding Saturday and 
following grounds: misin­Sunday) after notification of 
terpretation of a rule or artion taken following the 
regulation, actual prejudice on original hearing, the student 
the part of the agent disposing of must submit in writing to the 
the case, or a conviction totally proper Appeals agent his intent to 
unsupported by the facts appeal. Every disposing agent 
presented at the hearing of the will be required to outline the 
lower body. If such is the case, specific procedures involved in 
the Appeals Board will decide making an appeal. 
whether the charge should be 
dismissed or if there should be a 
retrial. Hespecttully submitted, 
This committee also recom­
mends that the student's status ltl'v. Thomas Chambers, C.S.C. 
not be altered while an appeal is Professor Peter Thornton 
under consideration except in the David Tushar APPEALS POLICY 
'Comprom1se. statement' 
angers Barkett, Kezele, 
Cullen-vote seen close 
life on this campus, and sanctions (Continued from page 1) which as representative to Flanner and Grace I cannot 
probation if the report is adopted and will not support," stated by the SLC this afternoon. 
Floyd Kezele, SLC vice­Offenses for drug violations chairman. 
span from automatic expulsion "To the simplistic mind," he 
for pushing drugs for a profit to "I'm sure
continued, these four hours of constructive ac­sanctions might well seem to be tivity and Conduct Probation for the necessary answer to the possession of drugs. 
problems of this University.
The Committee also recom­However, they show a total mends two levels of probation: disregard for the 'Christian conduct <serious warning, but Community Spirit' which the parents not notified) and Trustees are supposedly en­disciplinary <parents notified and deavoring to engineer in the offender on provation for two Notre Dame man. Indeed. ifsemesters). 
passed they will sound the knell 
The five page report concludes for whatever hope of progresswith a statement inviting the Parietal and Alcohol Ex­
students dismissed from halls to periment of the past two yearsretain their ight of appeal as has fostered." ··-~ 
described on page 30 of thz Student Manual; and a reaf­Commenting on the individual 
firmation of the student's appeals sections of the report, Kezele policy. 
analayzed, "I totally disapprove · Submitted by Rev. Thomas of blanket rules in this area set 
Chambers, Prof. Peter Thornton forth by the Trustees or.:; e SLC and Dave Tushar, it also suggests for that matter. -..c:r than 
that thz Dean of Students be seeing the reality m Notre Dame, made available to the SLC each 
20 halls and 20 different 
semester. 
situations, the Trustees have told 
Student Body President .John the SLC to legislate for the 
Barkett viewed the report with composite Notre Dame man, and 
distaste. "I had a lot of reser­there is no such animal." 
vations about it." When asked to 
predict what action the tri-partite Recognizing, however, that 
body will take on the report this problems do exist, Kezele 
afternoon, Barkett responded "It revealed he will ask the SLC to 
should be sent to another com­empower the Hall Council to 
mittee." He disagrees with its establish their own guidelines in 
basic premise, that sanctions consultation with the Hall Life 
have to exist within the Board. 
university community. John Cullen, North Quad SLC 
Elaborating on the question of representative, echoed Kezele's sanctions, Student Body Vice sentiments. "Mostly I think it is Preisdent Orlando Rodriguez too vague, especially the section added, "It is unfair to try to adopt on drinking and parietals," he campus-wide sanctions." stated, terming "ill-defined" the 
He added that other parts of the committee's distincions between report were equally vague, major and minor penalties. especially the section on "This bill will be rejected," he visitation hours (sect. 1 A) in prophesied. "It simply can't be which a major infraction is passed. To enforce it ·would be an defined as one in which the moral utterly impossible thing to do. In standards of the University have the Alcohol section, why should been broken. an entire hall, say the size of 
''The mogal standards? Whose Flanner or Grace, be denied moral standards? Father liquor privileges for all of its Hesburgh's? Mr. Stephans? A residents because of the student's? Which students'? a behavior of five or six men?" rector's ? Which rector's? Speculating that students Which R.A.'s? Rodriguez would vote against the report, asked. and the administration for it, 
Reaction from the towers' Cullen said that the faculty vote representative to the SLC was would be definitely be the swing also rather caustic. vote. 
"This report calls for sanctions Dave Tushar, Off Campus in the areas of Parietals, Alcohol representative and one of the and Drugs which are in my three writers of the discipline opinion for the most part overtly report, termed the statement "a harsh and entirely irrelevant to compromise 'document." 
Page 6 THE OBSERVER Monday, September 27, 1971 


InPIRG still needs money, workers, structure 
(Continued from page 1) 
convention. "We aren't quite necessary to prevent unethical or ready to go and attack GM," fraudulent oractices. Homer said. Beyond these objectives 
Several goals and purposes InPIRG may adapt to any came out of the convention in-problem in the community and eluding consumer education, attempt to solve it. corporate responsibility, The organizers explained that protection against faulty the student is potentially the most products and deceptive powerful force in the community. marketing, investigation of legal They believe that InPIRG is one r-v_io_l_at_io_n_s_a_n_d_c_o_u_rt_a_c~t_io_n_if_?f the most ambitious attempts to 
Applications for the 
organize the student movement. 
OHGANIZATION EXPLAINED 
Still an extremely young organization, lnPIRG at ND is barely two weeks old. However other colleges represented at the meeting had formed even later. 
Indiana University at Bloomington reported en-
Academic Council are due today . 
Include a short resume of your qualifications, and leave appplication in Student Government office 

The Student Union 
ir nja•nction with 
thusiastic response but un­
coordinated efforts. At Purdue 
the program is less than a week 
old and is seeking recognition as 
a legitimate organization. Ball 
State University has petitioned to 
organize also. 

At IV of South Bend, where lnPIRG is only four days old, some faculty and student government contacts have been made. ND representatives reported that InPIRG has an office on the second floor of LaFortune and is attempting to secure the use of the student billing system. 
Representatives were also present from IU Northwest, St. Mary's College and DePaul University. 
Several methods for organization were discussed. Sam Jadallah, chairman of the Indiana Student Association outlined one of the proposals. H~ emphasized that the super­structure of the organization was to be responsive to the student desires and not to dictate to the Students. 
At the top of the statewide structure would be the Board of Directors with five main areas of 


••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••::1••••••••••••••••••• 
responsibility: --Program planning based on the action of the local chapters 
--Communication between chapters by publishing a monthly newsletter 
--Publicity for statewide ac­tivities --Managing funds for salaried personnel and projects --Handling the legal aspects of organizations. 
Jadallah then expalined that a local chapter defines local purposes, fmds and instructs workers, makes connections with other organizations and people and establishes a local office for proper communication. 
FUND RAISING PLANNED 
Miss Calish said, "one of the primary problems" of a student organization is a lack of con­tinuity. InPIRG hopes to solve this by hiring professionals to work continually in the public interest under student diredion. These include lawyers, ac­countants, scientists and c:om­munity organizations. 
InPIRG plans to raise funds by a voluntary tax for all college students in the state. The directors hope to raise $300,000 annually by taxing the students three dollars a year. 
This is about what Minnesota and Oregon raise for their programs. Petitions will be circulated on every Indiana campus. If 50 per cent or more of the student body approves the voluntary tax will be collected. 
PUBLICITY 
Another of the areas covered at the conference was publicity. Many methods for proper public relations will be used. A com­mittee was formed to design a uniform symbol, decide on a color scheme, and plan buttons and posters for InPIRG. 
The publicity during this orgamzational period will con­centrate on making students aware of the notential of InPIRG and securing funds. Mter this publicity will be used to increase the effectiveness of InPIRG's svcial action. 
An ad hoc committee was formed was formed to formulate the formal document defining InPIRG as a statewide non-profit organization. The participants set anotherr statewide meeting in two weeks at Purdue University. 
Ticket exchange for town youths 
For the second consecutive 
year, a student ticket exchange, 
under the direction of seniors 
Eric Andrus and Jack Candon, 
will provide South Bend youths 
with a chance to see a Notre 
Dame football game. 
Slated for Saturday, Oct. 30. the exchange hopes to allow at least 1,000 youths from such local programs as the Neighborhood Study Help Program, the Big Brother Program, the Logan Center, and the Kennedy In­stitute to view the ND-Navy football clash. 
In addition to area youths, the 
Kennedy Institute hopes to bring 
40 Indian students from South 
Dakota, which it will host in 
South Bend for the weekend, to 
see the game. 
Those students who donate a 
seat for the ND-Navy game will 
be asked to exchange their ticket 
one week before the game for a 
receipt, at a time and place to be 
announced in the near future. 
The week following the game contributing students ca~ reclaim their ticket in time for the final home contest of the 
season against Tulane. 


Monday, September 27, 1971 
. _____ ______THE OBSERVER._________________________________________.:...P.:::a.&ge;;;._;_7 
•

Irish top Purdue 8-7 In thriller 
by .Jim Donaldson l'urdue stayed on the ground 
Sports Editor for llm·P plays thPn Lougheed 
It's been said that every cloud canw 111 t,J punt the Boilermakers has a silv!'r lining. but for 57 out of trouble. But Purdue's minutl's Saturday it appeared trouhl!'s Wl'rP just beginning. that the douds over dark, rainy Tlw snap from eenter Bob \\'Pst Lafayette wer!' color!'d I toidahl bounced in front of solid l'urdue black. Louglwed, standing on tlw goal 
Notre Danw trailed Purdue 7-0 linP and then caromed off his with IPss than three minutes to hand<;,into the end zone. play wlwn Clarence Ellis LoughPed rPcoverPd the ball and sl'paratl'd Boilermaker punter tried to punt hut Ellis hit him Scotty Lougheed from the wet, lwforP lw could get the kick off. slippery football and Fred "I thought l saw heaven when I Sw!'ndson recovered in the end saw that loose ball," Swendson zon!'. Pal St!'enberge and Mike said afterward. "I made sure I CrPaney eombined for a two had it solidly when I fell on it". point conversion to give the Irish Sw!'ndson 's touchdown started a thrilling 8-7 victory and the sun a joyous celebration on the Notre was shining through the rain Dame bench and sent Steenberge drops for Notre Dame. and Parseghian into a quick 
Notre Dame's big break came conference to decide what to do 
afll'r the Irish had missed out on about the conversion try. 
an <'Xc!'lll'nt scoring opportunity l'arseghian said later that the 
just minutes earlier. Notre discussion was not about whether 
Dame had driven from Purdue's to go for one point or two, but to 
42 to th!' Boilermaker five yard d!'cidc which play the Irish would 
line in the waning minutes of the run in their victory attempt. 
gam!'. Faced with a third and "There were only three 
two situation. Irish quarterback minutes left and we realized it 
Steenberge took the snap from would be unlikely to get down 
c<•nter Dan Novakov -and there again," Ara remarked. 
dropped it. Purdue's Chuck The Irish brain trust chose to 
Piebes f!'ll on the loose football at use their "Sweep-finesse" play. 
the Boil!'rmaker eight and things It was executed perfectly and 
looked bleak for the Irish. Creaney was wide open in the end 
Jim Donalcfson;:i:i:;:i~:i=i:i:i:;:i:i::=====i=;==============~==========================================: 
The Irish Eye 
:=:=:===========================:The boo -birds are circling 
The word seems to be that if Pat Steenberge had walked into the Convo late Saturday afternoon he would have been in trouble. Large numbers of Irish fans were not too pleased with Steenberge's per­formance against Purdue. 
It would appear that since Johnny Dee is no longer around, Steen­l><'rge is the man to "knock". At least three people, obviously witty, said to me Sunday, "What did Jenkins mean, a cheerleader could run the team? A cheerleader is running the team." 
Funny guys. I laughed as hard at their humor as I did after last year's Southern Cal game. 
To set the record straight, Steenberge does not rhyme with llt>isman. Nor with Theismann. He is not the quarterback Theismann was and it is unfair to compare him with Jersey Joe. 
ThP rain bothered Steenberge Saturday. The cynics may say that Tht>ismann did pretty well throwing the ball in a downpour against the Trojans last season. True, but Theismann was a veteran by then. And an All-American. Saturday marked the first time Steenberge had played an entire game. lie faced a tough, big, fired-up Purdue defense and adverse weather conditions. 
Statistically, Steenberge did not have a good day. He completed just seven of 25 passes for a total of 105 yards. He had one pass intercepted and made a crucial fumble late in the fourth quarter at the Purdue five yard line. Those are the facts, but let's not judge Steenberge prPmaturely. 
OnP interception in 25 passes on a day as wet as Saturday is not a disgrace. Neither is one ball handling error, although it came at about as inopportune a time as one could imagine. 
And don't forget that Steenberge is not the quarterback that Par­s<•ghian h.1s decided to live or die with. Ara went with him most of Saturday's game because he did not want to risk losing the all­important coordination between center and quarterback that is especially critical in bad weather. 
Next week may see Steenberge and Etter rotating again, just as they did against Northwestern. Steenberge wasn't aware that he would play the majority of Saturday's contest. "I didn't know how much I'd play until the game began," Steen­herge said afterwards. "I was glad that Ara had confidence in me." 
Confidence is all important to a quarterback. Steenberge said in the locker room that, "I never doubted we'd win. I felt that sooner or later we'd get a break and score". That's the kind of attitude a team leader has to hwe. 
But if a guy hears often enough that he's a bum, he just might start behevmg what he hears. Let's wait another week and see how things develop before getting too critical. It'd be a shame if "Sack Steen­berge" became as popular as "Dump Dee". 
--------------Disa and Data: 
The Irish have enough shillelaghs now to arm the rebels in Northern Ireland. The winner of the annual battles between the Irish and Purdue, and Northwestern, receives a shillelagh to keep in the trophy l'ase 'till the next meeting. 
Parseghian's Notre Dame clubs have now won four of eight meetings with Purdue. Saturday's victory marked the first time the Irish have won two straight over the Boilermakers under Parseghian. 
.Jim Humbert explained in the locker room what caused the two Irish illegal procedure penalties in the founh quarter. "After we'd line up and Pat'd start calling signals, the Purdue linebackers shouted 'Move, move' in Pat's cadence. We complained to the officials, but they didn'l do anything about it". 
And in a day where offensive heroics were few and far between Andy Huff turned in an outstanding job. His ball carrying and blocking Saturday showed that Huff's come all the way back from his injury. 
... ·-. 
~~~-,}~·-· 
Otis. Annstrong 'scored... Purdue.'s touchdown and was the leading g;round gainer for the Roilt>rmakers 
zone, catching Steenberge's lob pass to put Notre Dame ahead. Once again, the Irish bench Prupted. 
"We've been working on the play this week in practice," Steenberge said in the jubilant Notre Dame dressing room. "We'd been running the sweep all day and we didn't think they'd be looking for a pass. Ara asked me if I could get the ball there. I said ·sure' and we ran the play." 
Creaney wondered "if the ball would ever come down" while standing in the end zone, waiting to make the game-winning catch. ''I faked a block to the right, just as if we were running the sweep," the big tight end explained. "The defender went for the fake and I look off. They didn't see me open until it was too late". 
The pouring rain made the game a defensive battle. Purdue kept the Irish offense mired in the mud while the tough Notre Dame defense held the Boiler­makers in check, except for one play in the second quarter when Otis Armstrong, Purdue's star junior halfback sprinted un­touched 26 yards for a touchdown after taking a screPn pass trom quarterback Gary Danielson. 
Outside of Armstrong's scoring jaunt the closest the Boilermakers came to putting points on the scoreboard were two long field goal at­tempts. 
The Irish also tried a pair of field goals. Bob Thomas never got a chance to kick the first time Notre Dame went for three points. The snap was bad and and Thomas picked up the ball and tried to pass. He was dumped for a loss of 16 yards before he could throw. On the second field goal try, from the 26, Thomas' boot was wide to the right. 
Notre Dame kicked off at the outset of the contest and stopped the Boilermakers on their first series of plays. 
The Irish were unable to pick up a first down and punted back to Purdue. The Boilermakers chalked up the initial first down of the game before being forced to punt. 
On a third and eight play at the Notre Dame 20, Andy Huff picked up a first down on a draw play and when Greg Bingham piled on Huff after the whistle, the referees moved the ball to the Purdue 43. 
Huff carried for another first 
down on the next play, driving to 
the Boilermaker 30. The Irish 
drive stalled then, three running 
plays gaining just three yards, 
and ·Thomas came in to try a 
field goal but the poor snap 
nullified the attempt. 
The Boilermakers took over on their own 43 and drove to the Irish :ll where Armstrong was stopped for no gain on a fourth and two situation. 
The clubs exchanged punts before the Irish began a march toward their second field goal attempt. After Huff carried for three to the Irish 48, Steenberge passed 19 yards to Creaney for a first down. Steenberge then hit Tom Gatewood for 18 yards on a third down play, giving the Irish a first down at the Purdue 15. The Irish failed to take ad­vantage of the opportunity, however, as three rushing at­tempts picked up just five yards and Thomas field goal try was no good. 
After an excange of punts, the Boilermakers started their scoring drive on their own 47. Danielson began the march by hitting Sayers for nine yards and Scott Clayton carried for five and a first down. Two rushes gained two yards, t.:> the Irish 37, and then Danielson found Sayers open again, 11 yards downfield. 
A first down pass to Sayers was incomplete but Danielson flipped a screen pass to Armstrong on the next play and the fleet back raced down the left side line for the score with 3:40 showing on the stadium clock. Ralph Stepaniak was the only Irish player close to Armstrong but the Purdue wall 
of blockers knocked him out of  
Armstrong's path to paydirt.  
Mike HPnie converted to make it  
7-0.  
Bill Etter came in at quar­ 
tPrback for Notre Dame on the  
next series and directed the Irish  
to a first down before the attack  
stalled.  
The Irish got the ball back once  
more in the first half and, with  
Steenberge back at the controls,  
picked up a first down before  
tim<' ran out.  
Notre Dame came out throwing  
in the second half and it almoft  
cost them dearly. Steenberge's  
first pass in the third quarter was  
ndarly intercepted at the Irish  
:JO by Charlie Potts who would  
have had clear sailing to the  
Notre D;une goal if he had been  
able to hold on.  
The Irish fared no better via  - 
the aerial routes than they did on  
the ground and the Boilermakers  
dominated play in the third  
quarter.  
Ht>nie's short 45-yard field goal  
try was the closest either club  
came to scoring in that stanza.  
The Irish were still unable to  
generate an attack early in the  
final quarter. Steenberge did  
complete a 23-yard pass to Willie  
Townsend at the Purdue 47 but  
three plays later Piebes in­ 
tercepted an overthrown  
Steenberge pass at the Boiler­ 
maker 23 to stop the drive.  
With 7:30 remaining, Notre  
Dame started the ill-fated march  
that ended in Steenberge's fum­ 
ble at the Purdue five and after  
that miscue, it looked bad for  
N.D.•  
The defense turned things  
around, however, and the offense  
came up with the crucial con­ 
version play that meant victory.  
"I think our kids played well  
enough to bail it out," Parseghian  
commented afterwards. "Of  
course you have to be lucky to  
win, but our kids earned it." Boilermaker coach Bob  - 
DeMoss was disconsolate.  
"What can you say after a  
game like that? We made only  
one bad mistake all day and that  
cost us the ball game."  
''It was the breaks that made  
the difference," he continued.  
"We didn't deserved to lose, but  
we did."  


Pat Stt>t>nbt>rgt> passed lor the game-winnlngpolnts Saturday 
8 
THE OBSERVER 

' I , ,
MEG organizes c ean-zn 


SMORGASBORD 
Every Monday 5-9 pm $1.25 All you can eat 
Every Wednesday evening . PITCHER 
IS••• $1.00 
NIGHT 

Every Friday night 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
Every Saturday night 
POLKA BAND·DANCING 
Open Weekdays 11 a.m. -1 2 p.m. 
LAUREL &HARDY 
PIZZA PALACE 4ti1 0Western Ave. Belleville Shoppin2 Center 
Phone 289-7983 
The first malt liquor good enough to be called BUDWEISER~ 
collection center on the north side of town because there is already one on the south side", Poulson commented. 
The collection center, started about six months ago with a similar "clean-in" is now receiving substantial amounts of material· on an individual basis. Their operation, Poulson noted, is completely in the "black". 
by Bill Weber 
Professo.r Thomas Poulson, Associate Professor of Biology at Notre Dame and Coordinator of the Michiana Environmental Council <MEC), announced Saturday that an organizational meeting for any groups in South Bend or Notre Dame wishing to participate in a "clean-in" will be held Monday at 7:00p.m. in the Zion United Church, 715 E. 
chapter of The American ln­sititute of Architects, and Zero Population Growth (ZPG). 
The Inidana Public Interest Reserach Group said that it was more concerned with establishing itself on a state-wide level before getting involved in such a local project, Poulson reported. 
"We wish to establish such a 
Wayne St., South Bend. 
The meeting is to initiate and coordinate the activities of the groups which would like to help in collecting cans and paper waste. For this they would recieve fifty percent of the resale price. The other fifty percent would be used by the MEC to establish a paper, glass, and metal collection center. 
"We would like to locate this center somewhere on the Notre Dame campus because there is
-
quite a bit of paper, metal, and glass waste available in this small area", said Professor Poulson. 
"There would be bins for seven separate types of waste: aluminum cans, bi-metal cans, tin cans, three colors of glass, and paper", he continued. 
"We have no plans for buying a shredder as yet. Our concern now is just to establish a collection and resale center", Poulson said. 
"This "clean-in" would be primarily to draw attention to and raise support for the new collection center. We will try to get area companies to pledge a donation for each pound of trash collected", Poulson said. 
Poulson hopes to get support from such Notre Dame clubs as the Biology Club, the local 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS 
Morrissey Loan Fund Basement of La Fortune. Lost: Gold wire trimmed eye. 
11:15. 12:15. 

qlasses. If found please call 788 Are you as beautiful as you
FOUND LAST WEEKEND ran be? Let Viviane Woodard
teach you how ...wl!h two freebelt describe and pay tor adto make up lessons. (Call
claim 8241. 
Joanna at 287-2731 for appt.) 

FOR SALE ATTENTION: All students in Mr. Sporleader's MWF design
'65 Impala Convert. 396-ss, class owe 65 cents to pay for 
Automatic, Power Steering, mil!erials tor the model and 
Power Brakes, Blue, Real 

photographs of the alleySharp. $625. Edison Park 
project. Pay Bob Palmiter in Sunoco. Corter ott Edison and 
class.. Ironwood. 
FREE KITTENS-Part For Sale: 1965 Ford Falcon 
Persian. Information Call 300 dollars. Call: 234-5889 atier 
~340. 
11:00 p.m. 

PROFESSORS: Tired of New Posters of all varieties in 
reading bogus "quality stock at qreal prices. Come to 
college termpapers"? 815 Flanner or 611 Gracxe or 
Professionals in Speech, call 1694 or 1167. 
Rhetoric, Psychology, History, Biology, etc., will correct your essays and final exams. Completely con­
Must sell Vox Ullrasoncic fidential; students will neverelectric guitar $200.00. Buill know the difference. Carl T.
in Wall-Wah, fuzz, and many Berkhout Box 64, Noire Dame
other extras. New 65$.. 50.00. Same Electric used by Feliciano and others. Call 1651. 
lielp wanted; Yard 

NPed ride from N.Y. area to :RACK TAPES ONLY $3.50. 
NEW. GUARANTEED 8 

Notre Dame on any home CALL 6715. 
football weekend. Call Jack 2R9 7433. 

NO'!" ICES URGE'NT: Need two general ilcfm iss ion Michigan State 
ANYONE INTERESTED IN 

tickets. Call Beth: 5497 or JOINING A STUDENT­
J.1n: 683 918. FLYING CLUB roNTACT 
l'ader wanted for partially­W.I\L; AT 214 5566 OR 

siqhled student tor one hour 111LLL AT 1840. 
claily. $2.00 per hour. Marty, 109 Fisher. 1896. 
:ERMPAPERS AND 
'THEMES wrillen by 

GEN. ADM. professsionals in Speech, 
Need 2 or 3 tickets to N. c. 
Rhetoric. Pssychology, 

gaame. Ken, Stanford History, Biology, etc. 
219,8648 Original paper $3.50 per page 
NEEDED: Ride to Purdue.
Duplicate paper $2.00 per Will share expenses
page. 
"'311 8051.
Cash, IV.oney Order, or Bank Drall. 

WANTED: 2 general ad­QUALITY COLLEGE 
mission tickets toN. Carolina. ; ERMPAPERS 
Cilll Mike 1074 428 Flanner 
P.O. Box 193, Rockford, 

Illinois 61101. NEEDS HOME URGENTLY: 7 mo. Kitty (well trained) 284­
DREAM JOB NEEDED. Ride to Purdue.
No house to house. Part or 
~ull Time. Weekly Income 

Will share expenses. Call S40 $100 showing make-up 
~051. 
techniques. Vivianne 

l.Ciassified ads paid for in Woodard Cosmetics. Call 272­
<ash when ordered. 1174 
?.Office hours 12:15 -5:00. A cis in by 2: oo on day betore publication. 
BSERVER CLASSIFIEDRAl 

.,... 1 day 2 ..,. 3 ..ya 4 aya I 1-11 .II .75 
1.10 1.15 

11-11 ... 1.N 1.35 1.75 
11-. .71 1.15 
1.71 Ut 
21-21 .15 

1.35 2.410 Z.lt 
zt-30 
1... 1.18 
Z.35 3.4t 
-31-35 

Ut 1.10 Z.IO 3.85 
~ 

1.35 2.11 3.10 4.25 41-45 


1.55 2.30 3.30 4.50 5.50 
46-50 

1.75 2.50 3.50 4.75 • 011 







