

Vol. V, No. 66 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Communi~v Thursday, January 28, 1971 
Hesburgh reacts to co-education 
by Jerry Lutkus the report to see what it'll cost he thought was the major point tc' come up with the decision Coeducation and the tenure us. Of course, both schools have of contention between the they did. It's a decision that I system dominated a talk by Rev. financial difficulties, so we have schools. "SMC, like any smaller cannot override after viewing the 
Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., in to see what is best for the two of school," Hesburgh replied, "is evidence." 
the Dillon Hall Chapel last night. us." He added that anything the worried about getting gobbled About the tenure system Hes­Hesburgh said the only question two schools can do together to up. Let's not try to gobble them burgh termed himself "hereti­remaining for coeducation was save money ought to be done. up. Who knows, we may get cal." "Tenure is absolute job the depth of the plan and the According to Hesburgh all of the indigestion. We've got to work security. It was initiated to pre­speed of implementation. financial reports and a further this situation out. Right now, we serve academic freedom. I've of­
The sessiOn, run as a discus-study by the Co-education Co­have to get as much cooperation ten defended professors who sion period, was marked by ex­ordinating Committee headed by as possible between the schools said unpopular things. I don't treme student interest in the Fr. Charles Sheedy ought to be in all fields, education, social, care if they're tenured or unten­co-education situation as that completed and ready to be pre­etc." ured. It's their right under aca­subject dominated the one hour sented to the Trustees by March. One student questioned Fr. demic freedom. But the tenure 
talk. "The question remains When asked how St. Mary's is Hesburgh about the dismissals of system often is unjust. I think 
right now, how far do we want influencing Notre Dame's deci­Professors Estabrook and Wil­that it ought to be limited in to go, how fast do we want to sion, Hesburgh noted, "They liams and, in general, about the say, ten year blocks or some~ go," Hesburgh remarked. "Right really don't have much of a entire tenure system. Hesburgh thing like that. Believe me what 
now we have no specific time­choice if they wish to survive. said he felt that the evidence I just told you is academic here­
table. Let's just get as much But, of course, we owe them the presented for the dismissals justi­sy, but it's time that something 
done this year as we possibly courtesy of working out the fied the decision. "I'm satisfied 
(Continued on page 6)

can. We are moving toward a co-ed status with them. After all, that they had adequate evidence 
co-ed status. It's a monumental we've existed together now for change though. Already we have over a century." The present more girls on campus than either relationship with SMC and the Harvard or Yale will have when solution to the co-ed question they complete their programs." "depends largely on how fast 
The talk eventually progressed they increase their enrollment. to the recent Park-Mayhew Re­Last year, Monsignor McGrath port. In explaining his reaction said the next jump would be to 
by '·Buzz" Wmtrode semester suspension. If Brennan decides to appeal,to the study Hesburgh said, around 2600. I think that would 
Tim Brennan met with Dean 
Father Riehle will arrange a suit­be very good," Hesburgh contin­

"The report takes what we've of Students Father James Riehle able time for a hearing with thebegun and pushes it along. Pre­ued. this morning to decide members of the Appeals BoardThe President was asked what
sently, we are trying to cast out whether he wants to appeal his 
and Brennan. A Friday morning date is unlikely. cial code bb Brennan or his This is the first appeal case lawyer.
Cannon fills SMC pos.t 
under the new judicial code and Rich Urda, student govern­it was resolved yesterday that ment judicial coordinator by Jeanne Sweeney Riehle will handle the prelimi­stressed that student government 
crease in the freshman class size. student leaders. She will be the
SMC News Editor nary proceedings in this case and will be available only for consul· 
At their meeting on January guest at a coffee hour with
.'\ t a meeting with student any future cases. tation on the code and will not 
9, 1971 the trustees approved a students and staff members from 
h ··der~ yesterday the creation of Riehle will be acting in a issue an opinion on Brennan's 
reorganization of the central ad-the student personnel offices on
a new position of Vice-President purely administrative role and case itself. 
ministrative offices. Student Af-Friday afternoon from 2-4:00.
for Student Affairs and the ap­there is no way that he can Urda said that when sectionfairs, which was previously un-The Board also approved the
pointment of Dr. Mary Alice block a desired appeal, contrary 3-D was written, the section byder the Provost, Dr. Jack Det-establishment of a Freshman Of­
Cannon to fill the post was to popular opinion. 
which Riehle suspended Bren­zler, will be placed under a fice. This office will be concern­announced by Sister M. Alma Brennan may not decide to it was be an

Vice-President for Student Af-ed mainly with academic coun­nan, intended toPeter, acting president of Saint appeal his suspension for fear of
fairs. seling but will also be a center incorporation of Father Hes­Mary's College. 
prejudicing his case in civil court

Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, who where all freshmen can feel free burgh 's 'fifteen-minute rule' andThe announcement follows a when he goes to trial. Any ap­was not aimed at
will serve as the new Vice Presi-to seek advice and to obtain "this type ofJanuary meeting of the college peal hearing would be a hearing case."
dent of Student Affairs, will be -referrals for other problems.
Board of Trustees which also of the entire case.
responsible for the administra-The Director of this office, Greg Potts, the student mem­resulted in the establishment of This means that Ri· hie, repre­
tive direction of the hall direct-Mrs. Doherty has been a member ber on the appeals board said 
senting the university, would at­
ors and the student personnel of the Saint Mary's faculty since that he talked to Riehle y~ster­
tempt to prove that Brennan was

offices of counseling, housing 1961, and has taught on both day morning and discussed the 
guilty of allegedly selling drugs
and placement. The present of-the secondary and university !ev­operating procedures of an ap­
to an undercover agent and then
fice of Dean of Students, under els. including the South Bend peal. He added that the conver­
showing that this action con­
Sister Immaculata, will continue, Indiana University Center for l I sation cleared up many misin­
stituted an "imminent danger"under the reorganized admini-years. She holds her B.A. from 
(Continued on page 6)

to the university which would
strative structure. St. Louis .University and her Presently on the education master's from the University of faculty at Marquette University, Illinois..She and her husband 
?

Dr. Cannon, who holds a doctor-Thomas are the parents of four 
Lawsuit at SMC •
ate in education from the Uni-children. versity of Colorado, served as Sister Jeanette Lester, the pressure," he said, "She might
Professor Michael T. Hinke­

dean of women at Marquette new Assistant, joined the St. simply need the rest."
ml·yer. of the SMC Dept. offrom 1958-1969. Previously she Mary's faculty in 1969, and Education, would neither con­had held the post of assistant holds her B.A. from Ball State firm nor deny reports that he Hinkemeyer, member of thedean of women. University and both her M.B.A. 
has instituted legal proceedings SMC Education DepartmentSister Alma said "the students and doctorate in education from against the college. The admini­since the fall of 1969, received aneed someone to go to who will the University of Toledo, where stration continues to withhold letter notifying him of the termi­give them an answer." She de-she was an instructor in business from hime the reasons if any nation of his contract on Nov.
Sister Alma, C.S.C. scribed Dr. Cannon as a dedica-administration. 
for his 'Contract termination. ' 25, 1970.
ted person and one who relates With the creation of a Vicea Freshman office to be effective Dr. Hinkemeyer did state,with students. Sister Alma added President of Student Affairs, theJuly I, 1971. Mrs. Rosemary however, that he has encounter­that Dr. Cannon has had valu-Provost, Dr. Detzler, can nowDoherty, assistant professor of ed "needless difficulties" in ini­able experience at Marquette concentrate on academic affairsEnglish, has been named Direct­tiating the faculty grievance pro­University in the co-ed situation. and leave the student affairs upor of the Freshman Office with cedure. "The chairman of theDr. Cannon is a frequent to the new vice president.
Sister Jeanette· Lester, assistant committee involved is a nicespeaker at colleges and universi-This office will also relieveprofessor of education, filling guy," he said, " and I respectties throughout the country and Sister Immaculata, the Dean ofthe post of Assistant. 

him. But he doesn't have tenurehas published a number of pa-Students, of too many dutiesSister Alma explained that she and seems very hesitant about pers including: "Womanpower: and give her the opportunity to

had been directed by the trus­getting involved". A Developing National Re-deal with immediate student
tees, after student government Dr. Hinkemeyer declined to source"; "Social Change: Its Im-needs.
had compiled various reports e­speculate as to whether Sr. Al­
pact on the College Student"; The Freshman Office will
lucidating many changes needed ma's imminent trip to Europe
and "Student Government: Its relieve· a great burden from the
at SMC, to act on two things. has any relation to the Feb. I 
She was to make available better Role in the Modern University." Academic Dean's office and will contract deadline for many sec­
lines of communication for the Dr. Cannon will be on the St. make available more time for the ond year faculty members. 
students and improve the system Ma(t's campus the weekend of Academic Dean to research such 
"The acting president has 

of freshman counseling which January 29 where she will meet academic problems as why stu­probably been under a lot of had suffered after the large in-the administrative personnel and dents leave SMC. 




Pork-Mayhew report 
.Committee re-examines paper 
tiona! experience not presently
by Kevin MeG ill 
found at Notre Dame. 

The Committee for Coeduca­Headed by Tim Conners, Bill tion will draft an extension to Wilka, Carol Henninger, and Ju­the Park-Mayhew report to pre­lia Rak, the Conmittee will soon sent to the Board of Trustees in have an office in Holy Cross Hall 
March. The extension will reflect at St. Mary's. They will coordi­the combined efforts of stu­nate the work of students and dents, faculty, and administra­faculty members in the areas of tors of both campuses and will housing, dining, social areas, aca­attempt to alter slightly the di­demic regulations, merged de­rection of the report and resolve partments, admissions, merged its ambiguity. student governments, tenure and 
The stand of the Committee is the faculty situation, trustees to have St. Mary's a separate but and fellows program, administra­coeducational liberal arts school tion changes, student services, within the University which philosophy, and degrees. 
would provide a unique educa-Each area will be studied with 

Educators charge 
by Ann Therese Darin 
how the liberal may actually be 

"Intellectual radical liberals not only maintaining the gap may contribute to racism," between the races, but also wide­claimed Prof. Edsel Erickson at a ning it. seminar on '"The Liberal As a S p caking to an overflow Racist" last night in Carroll Au­crowd which was accommodated ditorium. by closed-circuit television, Eric­
At the lecture, part of a series kson claimed that liberals may sponsored by the department of actually be "socking it to the education on "Contemporary blacks and the poor." Trends in Education," Erickson, He compared the liberals' in­a Western Michigan University advertent actions with those of sociology professor; Joe McMil­Arkansas's ex-Governor Orville lan, special assistant to the presi­Faubus's, Alabama Gov. George dent of Michigan State Universi­Wallace and ex-Selma Chief-of ty in race relations; and Ira -Police Bull Connor's actions 
Rutherford, a special instructor _ wb.jch he said had unintentiona­at Western Michigan, discussed lly done much to instigate and 

regards to coeducation, prob­opinions or ideas will contact lems will be discussed, and speci­the Cormittee at 7668 or 4017. fic proposals will be developed. Conners indicated that by The Cormittee is interested in working closely with the stu­the opinion of any student or dents, the combined student faculty member or administrator governments of Notre Dame and in any of the three fields. St. Mary's, and with the faculty 
At the same time, the Com­and administrators, the Commit­mittee is encouraging meetings tee will be able to consolidate within the halls of each campus the amount of work done so far. 
during which students may air Hopefully this will result in an their ideas. The Committee extension to the Park-Mayhew members will be willing to ap­report which is acceptable to pear at any of these meetings. and backed by everyone. They On February 8, they will meet will present their report to the with the hall presidents to hear General Assembly on February the results. Conners said that he 16, and to the Board of Trustees hopes off-campus students with in March. · 

I i beral-rad icals as 
promulgate the civil rights move­ment. 
While the WMU professor cit­ed universities as "racist because they maintain the dominant-sub­ordinate position of whites and blacks," Joseph McMillan detail­ed the concept of racism and its existence in the university. 
"Corporate or institutionaliz­ed racism," stated McMillan, "is the systematic oppression of blacks and other minority pe­ople for the purpose of main­taining some type of white sup­remacy --it is interwoven into culture." He denied that blacks could be racist because "blacks have never been in a position of dominance." 
American history, he felt, is pervaded with examples of ra­cism prevalent from the discov­ery of America -"How could Columbus discover America when the Indians were already there?" 
In discussing the university, he stated that blacks "unlike white radicals, are unable to fade in and out of the system. White radicals on campus," he continu­ed, "were direct descendents of the civil rights workers of the 1960's who marched in the South and, then, went home to northern communities to fight 
for open housing. 
In proving his theory, McMil­lan quoted from his experiences at MSU during the Cambodian strikes when white radicals tried to coerce blacks into activities with promises of adding "Free Bobby (Seale)" and Ooen Ad­missions" to their lists of de­mands. 
Elaborating on this point, Ira Rutherford, the third speaker, defined several categories in which liberals could be consider­ed racists. 
Egypt alerts forces 1n anticipation of war 
By United Press International 

Authoritative sources in Cairo said Tuesday Egypt has placed its armed forces on full emergen­cy footing in preparation for the possibility of renewed war with Israel when the current cease fire in the Middle East expires Feb. S. 
The United States was report­ed urging Egftpt to accept an extension of the truce. 
In je£Usakm, Defense Minister Moshe Dayan told Israel's parlia­ment that there were more than I0,000 Soviet military personnel in Egypt, some of whom are 
N.D. FROSH, SOPHS, JUNIORS ­KNOW HOW TO TYPE WELL. 
Want steady SS for the rest of your N.D. days? 

CAL.L. SCOTT 
3 · 6 pm  T:tursday 283-6637  
10-11 pm  Thursday 287-9367  
8-10 pm  Friday  287-9367  

Do not call after Frida) 




racists 
In American culture, which he felt was racist, he found "the kindly big daddy liberal -who gives guidance to poor cultural­ly-deprived blacks (as plantation owners used to do); pleased pointers -people pleased with themselves who point where ra­cism exists such as in the South and in suburbia, everywhere, but their own backyards; and the culture vulture -who must con­tinually remind you how much 
he  loves  soul  food  and  black  
music."  
He  also  described  "ster­ 

eotypes --who like to pigeon­
hole blacks; liberal enoughs ­
who claim 'we've just acquired our first black, aren't we liberal; guilty gremlins ·-'oh, I am so guilty at what you suffered at the hands of my forefathers, I understand'; missionaries and mercenaries. 
manning and defending the so-Nor, they added, di(i it mean phisticated SAM3 MIG21 inter-that Cairo had reached any firm ceptor squadrons in the Egypt-decision on proposals for ian air defense network. He also another extension of the cease said that Soviet SAM2 missiles fire to permit U.N. mediator have now been deployed in Syri-Gunnar V. Jarring to continue 
a. the peace talks. 
Isuaeli troops killed fO.\Y Arab Israel and the Arab states al­guerrillas Tuesday night in a ready have exchanged proposals clash along the Golan Heights for peace in the Middle East. cease fire line with Syria, an Both sides showed little change Israeli military spokesman said. in basic conditions particularly He said the clash occurred 200 on the question of Israeli with­yards inside the Israeli occupied drawal from Arab territory cap­heights near Khushniya, the vii-tured in the 1967 war. !age where guerrilla ambushers Political sources said Israel wounded one Israeli · soldier Monday transmitted its reply to Monday night. Egypt's proposals to New York 
The Cairo sources said that for delivery to Jarring and relay the maximum military alert by to Cairo. The contents of the Egyptian armed forces did not reply were not disclosed in line mean Egypt has abandoned hope with the policy of "quiet diplo­for a political settlement macy" advocated by Jarring and through the U.N.-supervised Israel at this "delicate" stage talks in New York. political sources said. 
~~~~~"'"'"'"'"'"'"'~#,#,• ••··· •.•, ••.. -~­

All Juniors 
JUNIOR PARENTS-SON WEEKEND WILL HOLD ITS' FINAL TICKET SALES AND TABLE RESERVATIONS FOR THE PRESIDENT'S DINNER AT: 
, ' I 

LaFortune Student Center 
February I. 2. 3. I971 
7-~PM 



GSU initiates insurance program 
by Don Ruane 
Applications and Letters of explanation for the Graduate Student Union sponsored life insurance policy which could pay up to $20,000 in benefits have been mailed to all Union members according to President Bill Lorimer. 
The policy is the result of two months consideration of more than 60 life insurance policies and was completely negotiated by the GSU, Lorimer said yester­day. 
The policy is with the Valley been omitted. 

Graduate students have been enrolled in the University spon­sored Blue Cross program in the past but this has been dropped, 


Dr. Gabriel to lecture 
on Mediaeval life 
according to Lorimer, beause the In 1966 he was elected Fellow premiums increased by ten dol­of the Medieval Academy of lars. America. Also decorated with On Tuesday Lorirrer will fly France's;Legion of Honor, Doc­to the University of Michigan to tor Gabriel became the first Honorary Doctor of the Ambro­(Continued on page 8) siana, Milan. 
Professor Doctor Astrik L. 
Gabriel, Director of Notre 
Dame's Medieval Institute and 
Corresponding Fellow of the 
French Academy, will deliver a 
slide-illustrated lecture entitled 
"Your Predecessor: The Medi­
eval Student" on Tuesday, Feb­
ruary 2 at 8 p.m. in the Memori­
al Library Auditorium. 
In his lecture sponsored by 
the Graduate Student Union, 
Professor Gabriel will use slides 
of medieval student life to illus­
trate the recurring patterns of 
life styles which connect the 
modern student to his earlier 
counterpart. 
Author of over a hundred 
articles and books, Dr. Gabriel 
came to the United States after 
heading the French College in 
Godolio, Hungary. As a special­
ist on the rise of the medieval 
university, he has added 
extensi¥e1y to-the Institute's li­
brary, includirig a fine selection 
of rare manuscripts and medieval 
academic seals, many of which 
are o_n exrubit on the seventh 
floor of the Memorial Library. 
Professor Gabriel has lectured 
extensively throughout the west­
ern .hemisphere, and in the 
1963-64 academic year was the 
Charles Chauncey Stillman guest 
profes~or at Harvard University. 

Abortion panel speaking tonight 
The Orestes Bronson Society 
of the University of Notre Dame 
,;II present a panel discussion 
Thursday night, January 28, on 
tl'\e subject "Abortion vs. Life." 
Speaking at the Library Audi­

torium at 7 P.M. will be Pro­
fessor Ralph Mcinerney of the 
Notre Dame Philosophy Depart­
ment, R.W. Chamblee, a South 
Bend physician, Rev. Merton 
Sottbl, fortheTheology 
Depar'tmcnt,and Professor 
Charles Rice of the Notre Dame 
Law School. 
Everyone is invited and admis­
sion is free. 


Noon Mass 
Fr. Frank Cavanaugb, chap­lain, f9r University Personnel, has invited all University employees 
•ana' 1ariy students who wish to attend to his daily Mass in the Crypt of Sacred Heart Church. Mass is at 12:10 P.M. and lasts about 20 minutes. Confessions are heard during the Mass. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the 'Jniversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Forge Life Insurance Company Lorimer said tht insurance whose home offices are located policy is the first of its kind to in Reading, Pa. During the char­be provided by a graduate stu­ter enrollment period all GSU dent government for its mem­members and their spouses to bers. "Notre Dame pioneered age 65 are eligible. the program and next week we 
After the period has ended, will be forming a committee to only members and spouses up to look into health insurance," said age 60 may enroll. Unmarried Lorimer. Anyone interested children of graduate students al­should contact him at 8752. so are eligible from 14 days to In addition to low premiums 21 years are eligible. If the un­provided for in the policy, no married child is in college the medical examiniation is required limitation is extended through for enrollment, a convertibility the student's twenty-third birth­clause has been written in at noe day. extra cost and the war clause, 
common in many policies, has 

CAC and CAF 
Proudly Present 
The Lyric Theater 
Friday, Jan.. 29, 8:00PM O'Lauahlin Auditorium 
Combination of the Anna Soholow Dance Company, the Philadelphia Theater Workshop & the Philadelphia compos­ers Forum. 
Guest Dancer: Alice Condodina 
Adults $3.00 Students $2.00 CAF Patrons $1.00 







Dull, uninteresting weekend ahead? 

THE OBSERVER 

GLEN S. CORSO, Editor-in-Olief BRUCE RIECK. Bwdness Manap NOTRE DAilE, INDIMA
FGUIDlD IOVEIIIER). 1­

The Knight Errant 
Galloping out of the mists on his trusty steed, cloaked in self~righteous armor, the gallant knight errant came forth to defend the University from the scurrillous attacks of two knaves. 
Thus Rev. James Burtchaell, C.S.C., instead ·of admitting an honest mistake by a somewhat overzealous administrator sought to cut down a boy's parents who had the audacity to question the administration's honesty. 
Two things about the incident seem fairly clear. One is that the University was justified in cancelling Werner's scholarship. The other is that it was motivated in part by a fear that Mr. Carl Koch, the donor, would stop his contributions if Werner were to get any more money. 
The University seems to have bent over backward in their treatment of Werner and even after rescinding his aid, offered him a loan and job, rather than cut him off completely. 
A frank and open admission by Burtchaell of the part that Koch's reaction played in Werner's cancellation could have avoided this fiasco entirely. Instead, the Provost wrote Jim's parents a letter bordering on insult, terming their allegations "obnoxious." 
It is true that charges that Werner's scholarship was cancelled because of his social involvement are rather vicious, but the Provost, acting as a University official, had no call to treat the Werners in such a manner. 
Father Burtchaell's other remarks in the letter concerning the amount of money that the Werner's sons had received in scholarship aid were in monumentally bad taste and in reality had no bearing on thl ~ase in hand. 
The attempt, by the Provost, to make. Werner's parents feel as if they had blasphemed by calling the integrity of the University into question is frankly amazing. 
The entire affair was bungled and bungled badly by the Provost. Instead of explaining the situation and admitting the mistake Father Burtchaell sought to intimidate the Werners with his scintillating rhetoric. 
If we can expect nothing better from the man who may be the next University President, perhaps it is time we started looking elsewhere. 
An Alternate Proposal 
A group of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students are getting together to write an alternative plan to the Park-Mayhew Coeducation report. 
Their effort will deal with several areas including residential living and dining facilities. It promises to be what we were led to believe: the Park-Mayhew report would be, a fairly comprehensive plan that would provide a framework for coeducation, not a vague philosophical tract. 
In one of the few instances of original insight in the report, Park and Mayhew pointed out that one of the things which could hasten coeducation was studen.t power and student 
opinion. 

The only way that student opinion can be registered is if the student government has a viable and comprehensive alternative to present to the Board of Trustees. The only way such a report will be written is if enough students volunteer so that all 
important areas will be· covered. 
To that end, we urge students to join in writing an alternative proposal, and to do so by calling Carol Henninger's office at St. Mary's. The number is 4017, do it today. 
Night Editresses: Ann Conway, Mary Chris Morrison Layout Design: Joe Cassini Headlines: Jim Roe Layout: Daniel V., Joe Abell 

Unexpected Demise 

The death knell of student government could be some­where off in the distance as Dave Krashna announced he would no longer chair or convene Senate meetings. 
Perhaps the demise is not such a bad thing. The past tw,) people who have occupied the SBP chair have foun<: themselves unable to affect any real and palpable change in the University_ There have been some things done, such as the seating of students on the academic council and the adoption of the new judicial code and others which were good. Yet there was something missing. Ever since the strike last spring there has been no large dramatic issue which student government has been able to face and resolve with any certainty. 
One of the major planks in Dave Krashna 's platform last year, the abolition of the Senate failed and failed miserably. It didn't fail because people were so much against it as the plain fact that they didn't give a damn. There is no surer and swifter way to kill something than through apatlly. 
A case could be made for the incompetency of the present administration creating an atmosphere for this feeling to flourish, but it would be a phony one. The fact is that ever since the beginning of this academic year students have stopped caring about their student government. In fact it seems that students have stopped caring about a JoJ of 
things. The successful football season and the recent victor} over UCLA, while producing some excitement, were mark­ed by quiet more than anything else. 
So student government is sinking slowly in the backwash of the students' unconcern. A friend made the point recently that student government is dying much like a person dies. First the extremities lose their feeling and begin to grow cold and then the feeling spreads until the heart slops. 
Hall government has been on the wane for several years now. Under the present HPC leadership it has deteriorated even further. 
Despite the pledges of the present administration to get some power back to the halls, virtually nothing has been done. Administration personnel have been conspicuously absent and only a paltry sum was alloted to the halls. 
The student government cabinet, with a few exceptions, has produced nothing of con seq Ut<nce. It seems as if they were afflicted with a case of the blahs, all year long_ 
The heart of the student government, the president, has had a sporadic achievement record at best. Recent attempts to revitalize the administration, such as the championing of the Werner and Brennan cases have tended to counteract some of the ill effects of the year, but it is too late. 
Next year promises to be much of the same. The only person in the running for SBP at present is one who has distinguished himself with the inept handling of the constitution issue, a security study and fiscal responsibility for the halls. Perhaps he will prove himself competent in the presidency, but there doesn't seem to be much hope. Even if a truly competent and talented person appeared on the scene he would face an uphill battle. 
Unless some dramatic issue arrives upon the scene to rescue the student body out of its present lethargy. student government will be evC)n more of a joke next year than it is this year. 
T C. Trt"anor 
Another •tove' Story 
In this epic, soon to become an impor­tant Hollywood movie, the young, wealthy, noble, well-bred John Dough IX,· to be played by Ted Cassidy or Wally Cox, becomes infatuated when the young, beautiful, but poor and unpedi­greed dog Schlitz Spaghetti, played by Arnold the Pig, crawls into his life. 
What do you say about a twenty-five­month old dog who croaks? 
You could say she was beautiful. Her teeth, gleaming long and white, were like the morning sun. Her nose was always cold, even at the end. You could say she loved sleep, Gainesburgers, and the Post­man's leg. And me. I once asked her the order of her preferences. She bit me. I 
think that said something. I first ran across her in the cafeteria, where she was dishing out a breakfast of camelsteak and crud. I was instantly struck by her beauty, surrounded as she was by other cafeteria workers. "What's a nice kid like you doing in a place like this," I said in my best rich young suave dilacian voice. "None of your beeswax, Jocko," she replied in a harsh whisper. Little did I know that those would be the first words of endearment spoken between us two! "What makes you think that I went to 
Jock school?" I said, my vanity injured. "There's blood all over your shirt," she pointed out. Chagrined, I had to believe. Later, over lunch -I had coffee, she had a bowl of mush and some rainwater. we talked. "I'm a rugby jock," I explain­ed, perhaps unnecessarily, "I'm also carrying a 3.999 and will graduate magna cum superduperfrom Harvard Law School, even though I do exclusively stupid things and talk like an Australian 

a borigini." That's when she bit me first. On the Arm. Cool, but affectionate. 
I could tell she was interested. "My daddy's awful mean to me," I said, "and my mummy doesn't love me any more, either. They aren't at all surprised at my phenomenal accomplishments, and when I get the dread, they don't understand. 
My daddy was an olympic avacado eater, and everything else has been downhill." 
"You should live like I do, Jocko," she said, "my father and I do everything together -eat dog buiskets, chew on bones, chase cars, bite postmen's legs, and the like. And I call him by his first name." 
"What is it?" 
"Wowser." 
"Son of a bitch." 
"Exactly." 
Boy, was she ever impressed when I drove her to my house! Driving along our driveway, which began in Maryland and ended up in New York City, we saw my parent's dog, Wellinghem, reclining in her doghouse. Wellinghem is fully pedigreed, but she had never looked so ugly before. I knew that deep in their cold hearts, my mummy and my daddy wanted me to have a pedigreed dog like Wellinghcm when I got growed up. I shuttered, and put my hand on Schlitz's collar. 
"Schlitz," I sighed, "tell me you'll never be like that." 
Schlitz barked joyfully and licked my face. We were at perfect peace. We had never been happier. 
My heartless father and superficial mother greeted me with false cordiality. "Good evening, lady and gentleman," I said in my most sincere manner, simulta­neously shaking their hands. "This is Schlitz Motzarella." 
''Spaghetti," Schlitz corrected. "Charmed, my dear," said my mother in her phony back Bay Polland accent which I detested. Then we sat down to din-din. 
"What are your peo -eh, your dogs in, S c h I i t z ? " my father asked . "A dog-· house!" Ia ughed Schi it z uproariously, spilling her Kennel -Ration on the floor. 
"Where are you from, Schlitz?" asked my mother, always status-conscious. Schlitz, for her part, looked inquisitively at me. 
"She's a mongrol, mother," I said. hating myself for saying it. That put a pretty effective damper on the meal conversation, except for my father asking me, for the eight hundreth time, what I had heard from Law School, and would it be okay if he put the lean on the dean. I said no. 
The next day I had lunch with my 
father in the Harvard Boozer's club of South Bend. and I asked him what he thought of Schlitz. 
"Well, she certainly has a sense of humor," he admitted. 
"We were made for each other. Can I keep her, please?" 
At this he puffed up nastily. "If you keep Schlitz, I won't give you the time of day!" 
"Does anybody really know what time it is," I asked pensively and then stalked out. That was a stupid· threat, anyway. I still had my watch, and I knew how to usc it. When Mickey's big hand is on the twelve ... 
We had a happy life together. She taught at Obedience School, and I went to Harvard Law School, where I graduat­ed third behind two human robots and was offered a job with Nixon's old law firm as a chief troubleshooter for Spiro Agnew. 
"Wow! I'm pron~oted" I said when I got home. 
"That's nice," Schlitz said. I wondered what was wrong. Then I realized: She longed for her old job slinging slop at the cafeteria. She had a great career ahead of her, slinging slop. 
One day I was walking down the street, keeping my eyes peeled for Ed Muskie, when her vet stops me. "Mr. Dough," he says, ''Schlitz is in the advanced stages of ringworm. There's nothing we can do." Needless to say, I was crushed. 
When I got home, I said, "Boy oh boy, Schlitz, do I have good news for you! I got your old job back at the Cafeteria!" But she fell over in a dead faint. 
When she woke up, she was in a hospital. She was not long for this planet, and she knew it. ,-The troops are corning home for Christmas, Jocko," she moaned. 
"Okay, Schlitz, I said tearfully, "Just one thing. How come you always call me Jacko?" 
'"Cause that's your name," she said, sitting up. "No it's not! My name is John Dough the ninth!" 
"It is! I always thought you were Jacko Conlin, the former baseball um­pire!" 
"Baseball umpire! How'd I get so rich?" She shrugged her shoulders. "How'd the Met's cop the crown?" she asked. 

Spring 
•
IS 
only 52 

/
days 


away 

UN leader at IUSB 
When U Thant. confirmed early this week that he will not accept another term as Secretary-General of the United Na­tions, speculation about his successor quickly silhouetted Edvard Hambro. 
As president of the U.N. General As­sembly, permanent U.N. ambassador from Norway, and heir to the Scandana­vian tradition of mediation among the great powers, Hambro seems certain to be a major contender to succeed Thant at the end of this year. 
Dr. Harnbro will be in South Bend Thursday (Jan. 28) to highlight to local observance of the 25th anniversary of the United Nations. He will speak at 8:15 
p.m. in the auditorium of Indiana Univer­sity at South Bend on "The International 
Struggle  to  Save  the  Human  Environ­ 
ment." The  lecture  is free and  open to  
the public.  

Prior to that talk, Hambro will attend and address briefly a $17.50-a-platc 
fund-raising dinner in the Indiana Club. Proceeds will go to the United Nations Assn. of St. Joseph County, which is underwriting the Hambro visit. Althou?.h dinner invitations have been sent to com­munity leaders, anyone interested in at­tending can obtain a ticket from the United Nations Assn. headquarters at I 007 Portage Ave., according to Mrs. Irene Pyle Millar, chairman of the Mayor's Committee for the U.N. obser­
vance. 
Edvard Hambro has been a lawyer, teacher, and politician in Norway, but diplomacy has been a constant thread through his career. Born in Oslo in 1911, Hambro holds a law degree from the University of Oslo and a doctorate in political science from the University of Geneva. 
During World War II, Dr. Hambro was 
c ngaged in information work in the 
United States for the Norwegian Govern­mcnt, and in 1943 he joined the Norwe­gian Foreign Ministry in London as First Secretary. He was a member of the Norwegian delegation. to San Francisco for the founding of the United Nations in 1945, and he subsequently headed the legal section of the U.N. Secretariat in London. 
From 1946 to 1953, Hambro was registrar of the International Cburt of Justice. He then joined the faculty of the Norwegian School of Economics and Business Administration in Bergan, where he taught law from 1953 to 1966. During that period, he also lectured at Cambridge University, the University of California in Berkeley, and The Hague Academy of International Law. 
He served as a member of the Nor­wegian Starting (parliamcn t) from 1961 until his appointment in 1966 as Nor­way's Permanent Representative to the United Nations. 
From The Los Angeles Times Saturday, January 23! 
An armed, barricaded robbery suspect 
was talked into surrendering early Friday 
during a marathon telephone conversa­
tion with an Anaheim police sergeant 
who talked about "women, stock cars, 
politics...and finally, footbalL" 
The three-hour, 15 minute conversa­
tion came to an end after the officer and 
the suspect came to a meeting of minds 
on football and Notre Dame's famed 
quarterback, Joe Thcismann. 
Flanagan began his telephone conversa­
tion with the suspect, Michael Joseph 
Walsh, 36, at 1:10 a.m. Friday. At 4:25 
a.m., Walsh, a self-einployed salesman, 
emerged from his barricaded apartment at 
1650 Pam pus Lane, Anaheim, with his 
hands up. 
"We talked about everything we could . think of. He brought up the subject of 
football and Notre Dame and quarterback 
Joe Theismann. He is a Notre Dame fan," 
Sgt. John Flanagan, 32 said hoarsely. 
Page 6 

Manson faces death verdict 
LOS ANGELES (UPI) Charles Manson and his three women followers, who failed to offer a defense to seven counts of murder, will try now to es­cape the gas chamber by show­ing they are products of a sick society. 
The four convicted Monday of the brutal and mindless mur­ders of actress Sharon Tate and six other persons 18 months ago were expected to put on a com­plete defense in the penalty phase of the trial. 
Under California's bifurcated system, the same seven man five woman jury which heard the seven month long guilt-inno­cence portion of the trial, begins rhursday to consider the penal­ty -death or life imprisonment. Prosecuting attorney Vincent 
T. Bugliosi, who intends to press for the death penalty, said he would question at least 50 wit­nesses including a young man who said Manson shot and wounded him nearly two years ago then cast himself at his victim's feet. 
There was also a possibility Bugliosi would present evidence concerning two other murders with which Manson is charged ­those of musician Gary Hinman and ranch hand Donald "Shor­ty" Shea. 
Bugliosi 'said he was "delighted" with the guilty ver­dict reached after 42 hours and 40 minutes of deliberation. 
"The jury could only have come to one verdict. We put on a monumental amount of evi­dence," the prosecutor said. 
Defense lawyers, who rested in the first phase of the case without calling a single witness, said they would present a "c­
omplete  case"  in  the  penalty  
phase in an  effort  to  save  their  
clients' lives.  

Daye Shinn, who represents Susan Atkins, said he had con­tacted "30 friends and relatives, her grandmother and her bro­ther. I want to show some miti­gating circumstances. I was very surprised she was convicted in the LaBianca murders since the testimony was she was asleep in the car at the time. I still don't think the prosecution proved its case." 
Paul Fitzgerald, chief counsel for the defendants, said it was still "problematical" whether the four would testify in the penalty phase. 
The defense lawyers were be­lieved to have rested without calling any witnesses precisely to keep the three young women off the stand. They reportedly were ready to take all the blame in an effort to absolve Manson. 
Manson himself may wish to expound to the jury the philoso­phy he expressed in a rambling, 90-minute discourse outside its presence last month. 
"My life has never been im­portant to anyone.. .I can't un­derstand you but I don't try. I don't try to judge anybody. I know the only person I can judge is me. 
"These children that come at you with knives, they are your children. You taught them. I didn't tea~h them," he said. 

Hesburgh explains tensure 
(Continued from page 1) 
like this is started. This system is ingrained in university life, but it has sometimes lost its purpose. It no longer defends academic freedom, but often continues mediocrity and shuts out many young, energetic teachers." 
He touched quickly on annex­ation, expressing a favorable re­action to its defeat in the Com­mon Council. He also outlined the University's stand on the issue. "We think the only advan­tage would be a I0,000 head count and possibly $100,000. If they aided us with fire, police, 
c., it would cost approximate-
student union social commission & ace present 
Your average reading speed probably ranges between 150 and 300 words per minute. Graduates of the Reading Dynamics course read and study at least 3 to 6 times faster than that. And the average graduate of our course actually improves comprehension over 10% 
Thousands of college students are Reading Dynamics graduates, including over 1,000 at Notre Dame, Indiana 
mardi gras concert University, and Purdue. This is the same basic course that 
friday, feb. 5 
8:30 pm in the ace
first received national recognition when President John F. 
tickets $!:i, $4, $2 at the
Kennedy invited Evelyn Wood to the White House to teach student union ticket her system to top level staff personnel. Recently, President office Nixon's staff took the Reading Dynamics course. 
The best way to find out about the remarkable Reading Dynamics course is to come to a free MINI-LESSON. At this session you'll learn what it's like to be able to read and 
live Entert('in ment 
study 3 to 6 times faster. You will see a short, enjoyable Wed. to Sat. Dancingmovie and have all your questions answered. 
tJtt­
Mil<lltiO 
"THE ENTERTAINER TO THE MIDWEST'' 
525 North Hill Street SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46619 
Attend 
a free mini-lesson. Increase }OUr 
Attended Parking
reading SC to IOOo/c on the spot 
In the Rear 
TODAY & TOMORROW 
THURSDAY NIGHT IS UNIVERSITY NIGHT 
Ever_vone 's Welcome 
Happy Hour 5-9 Daily All beverages $.60 during Happy Hours 
4, 6, and 8 PM 
Center for Continuing Education 
t 

r~otre Da~e Ave. 
t

Across from t~1e Morris Inn 
f 

EVELYN WOOD 
t

READING DYNAMICS
.....___________________________...1 ~~~~ 
ly $300,000. If they didn't aid 
us, we could demand it under 
the law. It would be self-defeat­
ing." 
Hesburgh concluded by com­menting on the possibility of re-instating Physical Education as a major and on the dropping of Communication Arts. He said that in many schools, Phys. Ed., is a "sewer" where athletes go and don't get educated. "It was in 1950 when ND dropped the Phys. Ed. major because there were only 4 or 5 students left in it. We made it so difficult that it was almost as tough as pre-med. Because of this, we didn't have enough students to support the 

f 
t t t 
I 
t t t t t t t t 
t 
~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
program." 
On Corrmunication Arts, he backed the killing of the depart­ment. "Originally we dropped Journalism solely because it was a lousy department. We started Communication Arts then. After 15 years, we can't honestly say we turned out any great journal­ists or communicators. It was 

the department's suggestion that we drop the program. I guess we just can't teach people how to be good journalists. Hopefully, with the American Studies pro­gram, we can show our journal­ists what to write about and put · them in a better position to write." Heshurgh defended this idea with the fact that Journal­ism Fellowship winners at Har­vard do not study Journalism, but rather any course offered at the university. They feel this is 
in the writer's best interest. 
Fr. Hesburgh closed the ses­sion by commenting, "I have found this year to be the friend­liest one in many, many years on this campus. I'm delighted. I think its one of the greatest things about this place." 
Brennan appeals 
(Continued from page 1) 

formed  statements  made about  
Brennan's case.  
Potts  said  that  he  did  not  

believe that the publicity that Brennan's suspen.>ion has re­ceived has prejudiced Brennan's right to a fair trial or the univer­sity's right to an unprejudiced 
defense. 
1t is not known when Brennan will appear in civil court on charges of allegedly selling drugs. 
Three other students, sus­pended along with Brennan by Riehle for the same reason, have 
not as yet indicated a desire to appeal their suspensions. Urda said he has been unable to con­
tact them and notify them of their right to an appeal. 
One or two of these three students have apparently been granted a continuation of their civil cases until February 16. Their trial date was last Tuesday and it is not known what the fate is of those who did not receive continuations. 

Thursday. January 28, 1971 7BR~ Page 7 
lllini, big hurdle for Notre Dame 
Notre Dame, Ind. -Johnny .two Big Ten title threats, Michi · It's no surprise by now that defense and Austin put it all field goal percentage (.547) and Dee would probably just like to gan and Indiana...national title Notre Dame's ninth victory last together," said Dee, who realiz­free throw shooting (.868). sit back for the next week and con tender Marquette. . .Eastern Saturday--the highlight of the ed that it will take another Sophomore whiz Nick Weather­
similar effort to topple Illinois. spoon (13.0) has also pleasedtalk about Austin Carr. ..spend surprise Duquesne. And just to collegiate season so far was an 
The Irish have won two of the Schmidt with his rebounding
a little more time watching on make sure he has an accurate 89-92 success over top ranked last six games against the Illini in and defensive ability in recentfilm the defensive effort Collis picture of the powers in the East and unbeaten UCLA. The loss Chicago, including an 86-83 games while 6-8 center GregJones turned in on Sidney this winter, he'll test ranked was the first in 48 non-confer­thriller last year. Illini coach Jackson is backing up HowatWicks...reminisce a little on the Villanova and Fordham in due ence games for the Bruins and Harv Schmidt, who has started with a 16.2 average. 
gutty performances from John time. only the fifth loss in the last five 
four sophomores in several "Everyone knows our past
Pieick and Sid Catlett. . .and But the veteran Notre Dame years for Johnny Wooden. 
games, watched his club trim track record of fading in the lastthen spend more time getting a taskmastercangiveyouhis The reason for Notre Dame's Wisconsin (84-82) and Michigan h a If of the season," saysthird, fourth and fifth look at analysis of the Big Ten picture stunning victory --called "one of State (69-67) on the road before
Austin Carr. this Saturday night. The ranked the biggest ever" by Dee -can Schmidt, adding, "it's going to But Dee has one minor draw­Irish cagers face highly regarded fall in several departments. You the break. be tough, Notre Dame presents 
Illinois Saturday at 7:30 p.m. Illinois centers its offensive in Carr probably the finest in­
back...one that very few coach­can't overlook Carr and his 46 
attack around senior guard Rick dividual player in the countryes in the country can encounter (CST) in the first game of a points (including 16 of the last Howat, who is averaging 23.2
week after week from December Chicago stadium doubleheader. 17), or forward Collis Jones (19 and just about the finest 6-3 
points while leading the team in. basketball player I've ever seen."to March. And that's the de­The Illini, 8-2 overall with a points) holding Wicks scoreless manding schedule that he has perfect 3-0 Big Ten mark after for the first eight minutes, the lined up for what could be one taking a 12-day examination nine points and seven rebounds 
JIM MURRAY of the best teams in the country break, meet unbeaten Southern from Pleick or the defensive with four misleading losses. California in Chicago Friday work of Catlett on Curtis Rowe. 
Dee has already played the night. The Trojans meet Loyola "We got help in the trenches two best teams in the South.. from Pleick and Catlett, we
of Chicago in the second game 
Just No
.Kentucky and South Carolina.. Saturday. worked the boards and played 
Winter sports active Justice 
© 1f71. Les Angeles Times 
Notre' Dame, Ind. -Notre P.M. with admission $1 for last Saturday. Highly regarded Q. What are the three most difficult thing to do in baseball? 
Dame's indoor track team will adults and 50 cents for students. Rick Wohlhuter won the 880 A. The three most difficult thing to do in baseball are 1) hit the open its dual meet season Satur­Two other Irish winter sports ( l :52.5), Pat Holleran the two curveball; 2) steal home, and 3) get in the Hall of Fame.
day afternoon in the Athletic teams, the wrestlers and fencers, mile (9: 14.2) and Elio Polselli It's a good thing baseball writers aren't guarding the kingdom ofand Convocation Center against face competition on the road. the 35-pound weight shot heaven.
Mid-American Conference power The Notre Dame matmen tangle ( 4 5 -8 ) . Mi a m i fa c e s N o r­If any of you out there know any good reason why Yogi Berra, Miami. The Irish swimmers, with with Akron University Friday thwestern in Evanston Friday in Ralph Kiner, Enos Slaughter, Early Wynn or Duke Snider-to name a victories in three of their first and then John Carroll in Cleve­its opening dual meet. 
few of the 10 I voted for-do not deserve Cooperstown, please tell 
four dual meets, also stay at land Saturday while the fencers "Our swimmers set 14 best me why Rabbit Maranville, Joe Tinker, Johnny Evers, Frank Chance,home for a double dual Saturday face Cleveland State and Tri performance marks of the season Ray Schalk and Roger Bresnahan do. 
at 2 P.M. against Ball State and State at Angola, Ind. Saturday. in the two weekend meets," said The crop of players who got the door slammed in their faces this Illinois State in Rockne Memor­·Notre Dame's trackmen parti­Irish mentor Dennie Stark. The year have to be the unluckiest in the long history of the grand old ial Pool. cipated in the 17th annual Uni-lone setback was a slim 58-55 game.
The track meets starts at 1 versity of Chicago Invitational decision to Northwestern. 
In the first place, they came along in the era of night ball-and the only thing harder than hitting a curveball is hitting it at night when the air is heavy, the shadows long, and the grass wet. 
They also came along in the era of the slider, a diabolical delivery which combines the worst characteristics of the fastball and the Editor: customs of respect and "com­I would appreciate an explana­curve-where the thought processes of the batter change instantly 
I find it hard to believe that mon" courtesy for others. tion from someone. I am sure from "Aha! a nice fast one!" to "My God, it's going to curve!" some of the "fine young men" 2) They possibly feel a deep, much feedback will come in the The third piece of bad luck the modern crop got was that the attending this university are so inner lacking, and (in true form, "Ah, knock it off! We game benched Jim Crow. I will explain: Black pitchers may be no hard-pressed for humor that Freudian tradition) attempt to were only making a little joke." better and no worse than white ones. But black outfielders can sure they feel the need to heap per­elevate themselves by striking at Well, that is most unfortunate, run faster than anything that roamed the outfield from the sonal ridicule on an athlete from those around them. not to mention selfish, thought­turn-of-the century up until Jackie Robinson. Line drives hit 
-a rival school in order to amuse 3) They view a contest such as less, cruel, and, if anyone cares through an outfield of Smead Jolley, Jack Wilson and Lou Novikoff, themselves and "impress" those the one in question as a perform­any more, un-Christian. At the guys wouldn't even run out if they were hit to Wille Mays, Henry around them. The incident to ance, a show put on for their very least, someone should re­Aaron or Roberto Clemente. which I refer is the Michigan entertainment (partially cor­ceive an apology. However, since You can't prove much scientifically in the way of the velocity of a State basketball game, at which rect). The actors therein, by the the type of person who enjoys batted ball in the era or this, but you're entitled to raise an eyebrow a good number of "Christian" very nature of the situation, are this sort of humor is not usually when you note that, in the years when guys were batting .400, there men shouted clever witticisms thus mere creatures striving to one prone to any semblance of were usually dozens of guys well up in the .340s and .350s and even 
regarding the size of a 5' 5" please their spectators; if, then, humility or reflection, I won't the .390s. the spectators can amuse them­hold my breath until an apology 
Voices from the crowd 
member of the Michigan State A couple of years ago, .302 would have won you the American team. Further, I am undecided selves by ridiculing one of the is made. 
League batting championship. In fact, .3016 would have won it. as to the exact reason for it. A creatures, that is as good as Sincerely, The ballparks even got bigger. This took away the cheap home 
Robert Fowler

few possibilities have presented anything. After all, a laugh is a run or even the well-earned one-and '30 home runs that would have 
laugh. P.S. If it is impossible to print
themselves to me: fallen in the seats at an old intimate ball park became just routine 
this at the present, keep it until

I) Those students involved see After lengthy thought, I am flies. And 30 outs a season instead of 30 hits can make an awesome 
themselves as somehow above still unsure as to which (if any) after the next basketball game, difference in a batting average. or the next, or the next. Simply
the whole interpersonal bit, and possible explanation is correct. But, never mind that. What do the electors want? Duke Snider hit thus not tied down to the basic Perhaps they all ate. At any rate, change the names --it happens 40 or more home runs five years in a row. He hit four home runs in 
See the Irish Beat the lllini and USC vs.. Loyola of Chicaao 
The Student Union is sponsoring busses to and 
from Chicago Stadium. Busses will leave circle at 
5:00PM, Saturday, January 30. 

Sign-ups in Fiesta Lounge, 3rd Floor LaFortune -
Tonite 7:00-9:00PM Tomorrow 3:00-5:00PM 
Bus tix .. $6.00 Game tix may be purchased in Chicaao Stadium 
(Plenty of Seats Available) 
all the time. 

two different World Series. Yogi Berra may have been the most dangerous hitter who ever
lnterholl news lived in that there was no pitch he couldn't hit. Even the greatest hitters needed strikes, but Yogi could hit bouncing curveballs, ear-high fastballs, "waste" pitches. He got more hits in the World
Handball Series than any player who ever lived, tied for the lead in mostThe Interhall Office has an­doubles, and placed third in most home runs. The Yankee dynasty

nounced a doubles handball exited when he did. He hit 346 more home runs than Ray Schalk,
tournament for undergraduates. There will be three classifica­

who is in the Hall of Fame. tions of players. Both players 
Only two players in history hit home runs with more frequency must must live in the same hall. than Ralph Kiner-Babe Ruth and Harmon Killebrew. Kiner's home Deadline is February 2. runs laid end-to-end and triangulated might reach the moon. He hit 
Volleyball the highest longest ones consistently of any right-handed batter who 
There will again be an Inter­ever played. Even his outfield flies made a ball dr_opped from the hall Volleyball League. The ros­Monument seem like a foul tip. ter must contain seven men from Enos Slaughter played in the big leagues 19 years, batted an even the same hall. Deadline is Febru­.300 and his specialty was victory. He won a World Series once on ary 2. League starts on February sheer hustle, scoring from first on a single. It is estimated he won at 
9. least 400 other games the same way. There are at least a dozen guys Squash in the Hall of Fame who would be benched if Slaughter played their A Tournament is also planned position. 
for Squash. Any student or fac­Early Wynn won 300 games. Of the 32 pitchers in the Hall of ulty member is eligible. The Fame, only II can make that statement. deadline for entries is February You wonder what the guidelines are in this election. Maybe they 
l. feel it should be like Miss America. You have to be able to play the 
For information on any or all piano, or recite "Invictus" or knit an afghan or sing "Carmen." But of these tournaments, call 6100 if the conditions are still hitting, c~tching or throwing a baseball, my or submit entries at C-4 of the list of I 0 still stands. Nobody I voted for for the Hall of Fame would ACC. embarrass anybody already there. 
L____________________________________________________________________________________________ --------­
J 
Page 8 
Churches admonish jury; claim innocence violated 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. (UPI) ­The National Council of Churches Tuesday a federal grand jury "violated" the rights of co-conspirators named with 
the  Rev.  Philip Berrigan in  an  
alleged  plot  to  kidnat  one  of  
President Nixon's advisers.  

The Council's general board unanimously adopted a state­ment expressing "concern over successive violations of the right of accused persons to be presum­
ed innocent until judged guilty 
under due process of law." 
The board acted after Rep. William R. Anderson,(D. Tenn.), appealed to the Council last Sun­day on behalf of Roman Catho­lic priest Philip Berrigan and his brother Daniel, also a priest. 
Vice President Spiro T. Ag­new accused Anderson of "pop­ping off for political advantage" 
.,.,.,  ~~ ~~~~~  
The Cultural  Arts  Commission's  
Cinema  '71  Presents  

L'IMMORTEllE 
(screenplay written by Robbe-Grillet) 
January 30 & 31 2:00 & 8:00 Washington Hall Cinema '71 Patrons Free
Admission $1.00 


''A MASTERPIECE'' 
-Mary Knoblauch, Chicago TOday 
"FASCINATING AND IMPORTANT" 
-David Elliott, Chicago Daily News 
"INGENIOUS AND ENTERTAINING" 
-Gene Siskel, Chicago Tribune 
4, 6, 8, 10 

• 
TO\"JN & cournRv
DO'NNTOWN 
SHOPPirJG CErHER
SOUTH BEND 


becuase of his appeal on behalf of the Berrigan brothers. 
Philip Berrigan and five other persons were indicted by a feder­al grand jury in Harrisburg, Pa. on charges of plotting to kidnap presidential adviser Henry A. Kissinger and blow up the heat­ing systems of government build­ings in Washington. 
Daniel Berrigan and six other persons were named co-conspira­tors in the alleged plot by the "I am absolutely thrilled," exclaimed 39-year-old actress Elizabethgrand jury. 
Taylor upon li:!arning she is to become a grandmother. Miss Taylor's 
The board, governing body of son, Michael Wilding Jr., and his wife, Beth, have announced they the council, said the rights of the will have a baby in August. accused were "violated by a fed­eral grand jury...by naming per­
Jim Werner· refused grant;
sons as co-conspirators without indicting them." 
poor GPA. remains reason
The group characterized the 
Berrigan brothers and their col­Top Administration officials
leagues as "persons known for refused to comment yesterday
their devotion to the cause of on the scholarship denial case of
peace and serving the poor." 
senior Jim Werner, citing a Uni­The general board, in its final 
versity policy that all such in­business session of a four day 
formation is confidential. 
meeting, also called for sweeping 
Fr. Charles McCarragher, Di­reorganization of the National 
rector of the Office of Financial Council of Churches. 
Aid, did however outline the 
Apollo 14 readied 
version of his "Kitty Hawk"CAPE KENNEDY (UPl) ­spacecraft. Shepard and MitchellApollo 14 astronaut Allan B. 
worked in a mockup of the lunarShepard, an old fighter pilot, landing craft "Antares."
rehearsed with Edgar D. Mitchell Ground crewmen removedyesterday their planned moon hydraulic components of one oflanding which he said will be the five engines of the Saturn 5much like a night landing on an booster rocket's second stage toaircraft carrier. 
repair a small leak. But the spaceThe third member of the Ap­agency said the minor troubleollo 14 crew, command ship would not affect the scheduled pilot Stuart A. Roosa, spent the order to get home.
day practicing ill a simulator 
Parent's weekend set 
dents and parents will be able toSophomore parents' week-end talk individually to all depart­at Saint Mary's will be held ment chairmen.
February 26, 27, and 28. The Saturday evening at 6:45week-end is intended to intro­there will be a banquet for theduce the students' parents to all weekend Pilrticipants. Guestaspects of college life including speakers will be Sister Alma; athe academic, social, and spirit­parent speaker, Judge McNama­ual. 
ra; and the co-chairmen of theActivities will begin Friday week-end, K;athy Ries, and Marynight with registration and a Kay Davy. At 8:30, the Catholi•:hospitality room in Regina University Drama Group fromlounge that will be open all Washington D.C. will give a per­evening for students and their formance of George Bernardparents. Their will also be stu­Shaw's play, "Arms in the Man."
dent entertainment and refresh­The week-end will be endedments. 
with a mass Sunday morningSaturday afternoon at I pm celebrated by Father Higgins atthere will be 3 faculty speakers, the Church of Our Lady ofeach of whom will speak on the Loretto. A brunch will follownecessity of higher education for the mass.
women. After the speeches, stu-
Huddle Boll set lor Friday 
and Mr. Secada planned the e­Friday evening "the honour vent, "the cheapest (free) din­of your presence is requested" ner-dance in Notre Dame's histo­
by Maureen Phillips and Walter ry."
Secada at the first annual 1-i ud­Besides featuring "the exqui­dle Ball at: 8:30p.m. 
site cuisine of the Huddle," theBecause "we wanted to give "romantic sounds of the nickelo­The Observer some news that deon" will provide music forwas fit to print," Miss Phillips 
dancing in the campus restaurant whose decor will include table­cloths and candlelight. 
Dress is semi-formal.
~~ 
"We arc hoping for a group to 
' ~ 
rival Mrs. Astor's four hundred," commented Miss Phillips.
7~ ~< 
uv~edame 
M•rdi Gr•s 
0 ne raffle book per student is not asking too much. 
University's general policy re­garding scholarship recipients who fail to maintain the re­quired 3.0 grade average. Wer­ner's scholarship, it is alleged bb the University, was taken away because of his consistent failure to meet that standard. 
Fr. McCarragher said that stu­dents who get unsatisfactory grades are generally allowed to keep their scholar~hips for "one or two" semesters in order that they have a chance to raise their average. 

He pointed out that when a student does not keep his grades up a letter is sent to bbth him and the donor of the scholarship informing them of the situation. He said that as long as both the Office uf Financial Aid and the donor are agreed that the stu­dent still has the potential for achieving the required grades he will generally bb kept on scholar­ship. 
McCarragher said that only after a student has continually demonstrated that he cannot or will not bring his grades up to a 
3.0 average will his scholarship be terminated. 
G S U insurance 
(Continued from page 3) 
discuss the health insurance pro­
gram with the graduate student 
government there. J-r will also 
discuss the plan with graduate 
student officials from Ohio State 
and the University of Missouri at 
Columbia to explore the possi­
bility of including the three 
graduate student bodies in the 
policy. "We were able to get the 
life insurance on our own be­
cuase you can get a good group 
policy with a small number of 
people," Lorimer said. He added 
that a better group health insur­
ance policy can· be secured when 
there are a large number of 
participants. 
Lorimer is conducting talks 
with approximately four comp­
anies regarding the health plan 
but refused to name them to 
avoid "price shaving" and a sub­
sequent reduction in the quality 
of the policy. 
Plans are also in the making 
for the future possibility of pro­
viding auto insurance. 


l_ 

