

Vol. 5, No. 120 Serving the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Community May 3, 1971 
SLC Representatives Elected 
By Mike O'Hare 
The results of the SLC elections this past 

Disunity leads
Friday may produce a critical showdown in student government, due to the election 

of write in candidate, Ann Marie Tracey. 
to disorder in The results of the SLC elections showed Ann Marie Tracey and John Cullen vic­

nation's capital

torious on the North Quad. The winners on the South Quad were Buzz Imhoff and Rich by Dave Lammers Urda, whilP. Dave Tushar captured Off­
Special to &he ~ 

Campus. Kezele will represent the Towers. The vote was 289 for Kezele and 29 Washington was a scene of confusion for Joe Schupp. due to a lack of unity yesterday. The 
In the controversial Noth Quad election, desire for non-violent civil disobedience by 
Ann Marie Tracey and John Cullen were blocking trafic was still strong_ among elected to the SLC. Miss Tracey received most demonstrators. But it is clear that 435 votes while Cullen gathered 261 votes. others came here with no allegiance to Close behind Cullen were Jerry O'Connor Ghandian non-violence. with 223 votes, Tom Leahy with 222 votes, 
Until the police appeared, Potomacand T.C. Treanor with 138 votes. Com­Ann Marie Tracey John Cullen Park was the site of rock music, dopementing on his election, John Cullen smoking, wine drinking and some politicalwanted to thank all the North Quad can­organizing. Many came intending to leavedidates for a hard but clean fought cam­after the concert, but the far more seriouspaign. 

political discussions could begin today.
Miss Tracey eommented that,"I think Sunday, the government revoked themy election indicates an awaremess of the camping permit and at 6 a.m. Sundayreal issues at hand---eoeducation." She morning many campers awoke to a policealso remarked that, "The students must van announcement that the park was to betake an active role in order to get the kind cleared.

of co-education they want." Miss Tracey expressed concern over the possibility of 
Sunday afternoon the protestors were her being refused a seat on the SLC. One divided, confused, angry, and tired, which administrator was reportedly dismayed at was exactly the intention of the police the news of her election to the SLC and move. An example of this came in the doubted if she would be allowed to sit on morning when a police van circling the the Council. park was hit by bottles thrown by a dozen 
From the South Quad, Rich Urda and or so angry campers until a youth jumped Buzz Imhoff garnered 521 and 670 votes on a moving car and shouted for an end to respectively. Gary the bottle barrage. But such incidents ­Caruso fimshed third in the race, with a and the political attitude of those who total of 342 votes. Concerning his election, stoned the van led one woman to remark
Buzz Imhoff Rich Urda
Buzz Imhoff remarked that, "The big job 
that the protestors were "guerrillas is now to carry through the promises of the fighting their own government." campaign." Imhoff went on to say that he hoped to bring the idea of SLC cooperation The blue uniformed Washington police and communication from theory to reality. are calm but present everywhere, stan­
Rich Urda said that he was pleased with ding on almost every corner and com­
the SLC results, belieing that the best plemented by low-flying helicopters that candidates had won. He said that Buzz circle over every point of protest activity. Imhoff and him3elf are already discussing Most discussion today tried to anticipate 
ways to implement their campaign the action fo the police, the federal troops programs. Urda remarked that in a and national guardsmen, as the police and meeting Saturday with Father Hesburgh, long-haired protestors continue another 
Hesburgh was confident that the SLC chapter of the too long anti-war would recover the potential it had at its movement. inception three years ago. 
Saturday morning after arriving, Chet The Off-Campus election results showed Sygal and I visited the offices of three Dave Tushar defeating Joe Schlosser. 
Representatives and talked to their aides. 
Tushar received 59 votes compared to Representative Bennett -who is a Schlosser's 29. Tushar stated that, "I hope 
continued on page 8
that I'll be able to do the best job possible." 

Dave Tushar Floyd Kezele 

McGlynn says student concern is needed on campus 
By Pat Sullivan 
A little care and concern for others could "markedly" reduce ijle incidence of theft, assault and other crimes on campus according to Security Investigator Jerry McGlynn. 
The incidence of all stealing and assaults at Notre Notre Dame co~d be "markedly reduced through vigilance of students, faculty, and staff," McGlynn said during a recent interview in his firehouse of­fice. 
"Not 'only are' the membeJ;s of the community 
passive in this regard," McGlynn said, "they don't 
help each other' or even defend themselves in an 
assault situation. 
I hope the word is not out that Notre Dame 
students don't ffght back." 
McGlynn, who graduated from ND )n 1960, worked as an insurance investigator and also did some work in black ghetto areas before returning to Notre Dame. !(ow, in addition to studying for his MBA as a grad student, he is the security in­vestigator in charge of assaults and larceny. 
According to McGlynn's calculations for the 1970 calendar year, there were 349 thefts of personal property, 229 breaking and enterings with intent to commit larceny and 26 assaults. 
The security force is the "scape-goat" for these 
crimes,_ McGlynn said, adding that much of the blame lies in the negligence of the community. 

It is up to each member of tt'e University com­munity to work at curtailing the incidence of crime on the campus, McGlynn said. Members of the community should be less passive about suspicious strangers in buildings and parking lots, he added. 
McGlynn cited the example of a drifter who hung around campu!) until he finally pulled a gun on some students and robbed some others. 
"Such trouble could be stopped," McGlynn said, "if students, faculty, and staff -within their own areas of responsibility -would spot outsiders and question them'~ Poors should also be locked to remove the possibility of theft, he said. 
OBSERVER INSIGHT 

According to McGlynn not only is the community passive in ehallenging strangers, it won't even defend itself. 
Four students were ·walking together oh the campus, he recalled, "and somebody came up and rapped one in the mouth." The other three didn't do anything. ' _ 
In another incident three students were walking with their dates past the Law Building. Three juveniles came out of Alumni and one guy grabbed one of the girls. The three students, according to McGlynn, didn't do anything. · 
"I'm not saying they should have smashed him; just an aggressive foot forward would have been enough. And then there was Ed Grimmer getting knifed: \there were enough people nearby that somebody should have done something. I hope the word is not out that the students don't fight back." 
McGlynn admits that the majority of trouble comes froin outside. the campus, "But we have our share of it here." He thinks most of this inter­student crime could be stopped by the hall govern­ments and judicial boards, but right now "this mechanism just isn't functioning." 
The trouble from outside is a bigger problem, McGlynn said, and the security force is somewhat handicapped in this ~rea. 
"There is alot more crime now than when I was a student here. But there is also alot more activity." The Convocation ,Center and other programs, he said although good for community relations, have also brought alot of young trouble-makep; onto the campus. Any person who is not an ND student and has no legitimate business on campus is trespassing on private property, McGlynn said. This is why the Student Manual requires every student to carry and show his I.D! on demand to any university official. 
In assault cases investigated by McGlynn, "these 
young uneducated outsiders feel they are displaying 
their individual power by being able to assault 
'more educated people.'" The main assault area on 
campus starts from the Huddle, and goes down the 
main quad, the circle, and Notre Dame Ave. 

continued on page 8 
----------------------~ 
THE OBSERVER May 3, 1971 
Tuesday, May 11, 8:30pm ACC Tickets $5.50, $4.50, $2.50 On sale at: Student Union Ticket Office dining halls 

Continental Hair Styling, 
Inc. l32l E McKinley Hwy. 
Mishawaka, Ind. 

259-7679 

Wishes to extend their thanks to the ND Men for con­tinuing patronage; As part of our Grand Opening of New Shop to ND students on Mondays and Tues 9-5 all Hair Styles only $2.50. 
Serving ND :Students in all Hair Needs for over 3 years! 
specializing in all -lengths of hair 


HAGGAR 
Slacks
• Haggar Doubleknits comfort in fashion 
Now you can have your fashion and be comfortable too. 100% Fortrel<!> polyester gives with your every move, impossible to wrinkle, and they can be machine washed and dryed. You'll like the comfortable price. 
16.00 to 22.50 



An Tostal 
PHOTOS BY JIM HUNT 

Planned Parenthood ideas misunderstood 
The misconception that Planned Parenthood is an organization to help people have more children is fairly common among poor, white families in Gary, Ind., according to a study conducted by the department of psychology. 
Dr. Bobby J. Farrow, associate professor of psychology and one of the three directors of the team studying "Psychological At­titudes and Birth Control," ex­plained that the Planned Parenthood offices, in Gary, who 
us 
conference--vietnam perspectives: the vietnamization program, student government, library auditorium. 
4:00 conference-vietnam perspectives: the eighteen year old vote, student government, library auditorium. 
8:00 lecture-prof. peters. bauer, indiana u.: common market in the seventies: development of european feudalism, 1201 memorial library. 
7:00 and 10:00 movies-­r .a.p.: in the year of the pig and once upon a war,; room 122, hayes healy building, free. · 

nd-smc 

supported the study, were con­cerned that they reached only about six per cent of the families needing and desiring help in limiting family size. 
The study was co-directed with Dr. John F. Santos, chairman of the department of psychology, and Dr. Jonelle M. Farrow, acting chairman of the depart­ment of psychology at Indiana University, South Bend. 
Referring to the misconception among some that Planned Parenthood was primarily to help parents have more children, Farrow commented, "After all, their only radio and television commercial depicts a woman with a great many children. It was created to help the · raise funds, not to reach the people it is trying to help." 
However, almost 80 per cent of the men and women questioned approved of birth control, and had tried to limit their own family size for financial or personal reasons. Ninety per cent thought four children or less was the ideal family size, while about 30 per cent favored the two-child family. These families had an average of three children. 
Over half believed that over­population posed a threat to the world, and perhaps even to the 
R.A.P. to present 
two films on war 
The Refuge Aid Program will formally end tomorrow, May 4 in 
conjunction with the anniversary of the Kent State tragedy. 
In commemoration of the anniversary, the R.A.P. will show two free films, Once Upon A War, a documentary on the refugees, and In the Year of the Pig, a commentary on US in­volvement in Asia. They will be shown at 7 and 10 tonight and tomorrow night in room 122 of the Hayes-Healey business building. 
For those wishing to make final contributions to the refugees, there will be collections in both dining halls today and tomorrow at dinner. Any other con­tributions may be mailed at any time to RAP, Box 626, Notre Dame, Ind. 
United States, at some point in the future. However, when asked what considerations would lead them to consider having fewer children, over half responded "financial considerations," while only about 15 per cent indicated the world situation or living conditions would be important. Only three per cent believed religion would influence their decision to have more children or to engage in birth control practices. 
Birth control pills were the favorite method of contraception, used by almost half of the respondents. Barely a third of the men had heard of the intrauterine device (IUD), while two-thirds of the women were aware of this method. However, Farrow ad­ded, less than five per cent had actually used either the IUD or surgical methods to limit family size. 
More than 40 per cent indicated that they had tried to take steps to prevent pregnancy before the birth of their last child. Of these families, almost half had used birth control pills, considered 99 per cent effective when used correctly. Most families had learned about various birth control methods from friends and neighbors, rather than from doctors or Planned Parenthood representatives. 
The research team plans to continue its study of these families, trying to assess what psychological traits characterize those who are conscientious about trying birth control methods, and what traits 




MANHATTANVILLE 
Undergraduate and Graduate Courses for Men and Women 
TWO fiVE-WEEK SESSIONS 
describe those who either reject 
or descontinue efforts to limit 
family size. 

****************~
* c . * 
~ onvocatton ~ 
* St. Mary's SBP Kathy **Barlow has announced an * ~all school convocation for ~ *this afternoon. Under *
*discussion will be plans for )f. *SMC cooperation in a * *nationwide strike * *scheduled for May 5. Signs * ~announcing time and place : *of meeting will be posted in * *the halls and dining hall. ·* 
~**************~ 
ARTS, MUSIC, SCIENCES Day and evening courses open to AND TEACHER EDUCATION degree, non-degree and qualified high school students
Two Sessions: 
June 14-July 15; • Teacher certification courses July 19 -August 18 • Residence facilities 
• Air conditioned classrooms MASTER OF ARTS PROGRAM • Recreational facilities June 14 -July 22 • Special lectures, concerts, films 
For 1971 Summer Session brochure write to 
Director of Admissions, Manhattanville College I Purchase, New York 10577 I (914) WHite Plains 6·9600. 
The Observer is publisned dally durong the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, 
~------­

May 3, 1971 
THE OBSERVER Pa 3 

If you could dig hitch-hiking across Spain or It has the independent Getaway Brochure. For camping along a road in England. Staying at a those who would rather travel by themselves than chateau in France or living near a beach in with a group. California. TWA brings you Getaway. And it has applications for both the Youth 
First there's the Getaway* Card. With it, you can Passport and Getaway Card. charge airfare, hotels, meals, cars, just about Mail in the coupon for TWA's free Getaway anything just about anywhere. And then take up to Vacation Kit. two years to pay. And find out how easy getting away really is. 
There's also the Youth Passport* Card. It lets you fly at 33YI 'Yo off on all domestic flights on a standby 



The Getaway Program
ba~is. 

It also gives you reduced rates at many places U.S.A./EUROPE/ASINPACIFIC/AFRICA you'll be staying. . . . flwA,P.O~Bo;-465, ---------------~ 
Youth Passport IS good on 20 other a1rlmes. It costs 1Farmingdale N.Y. 11735 ~T..,• 1 $3 and it's available to anyone between 12 and 21. -1Please send ~e ~ I And if you send in the coupon, we'll send you the ITWA's free Getaway Vacation Kit. I 
Getaway Vacation Kit. I · I It has a Getaway Book, a 224 page look at 19 of I Name I the great cities of the world. I 
Three brochures, one on America, one on Europe, I.:...A.:.:::d:.:::d::..:re==s~s----------------1 and a third on Africa, Asia, the Orient, and the 1Ct State z· Pacific. 1 1Y 1P 1
L---------------------~~1~ 
May 3, 1971

Page .c THE OBSERVER 
STUD¥ SOllNDS 
'" 
IMPROVE GRADES 

Th~~::• ~":~~: ~~m~~~~~ ..1w 
USE STUDY SOU~''lS ·,,crease Your Coneentrattan Ao1d ',n.,rove Your Comprehension. Study .~t A Festt.r Rate. 
ELECTRONICALLY PRODUCED SOL 'IDS CAUSE THIS TO HAPPEN. Pluse SpecifyCassette, Or LP Record 
Order -$9.95 Each
;;,c.:.ccc•.,--and Postage 
-Box 3852 
22i02 


r-~-------------­
:Jnterested in Making MoneY? I 
t f Apply for a franchise on campus 
It 
for Doughtnut, Birthday Cake, 
I or Fruit Sales, 
t t
t 3 -5 p.m. M-F t 4th Floor LaFortune 
t 
: see Jim Schmeid or Walt Szware 
t 
t 
It 
I 
t t
t t 
t 
: 
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 


:·, ,,i'~~:~vj;,}\J>fJ\i:' ··•... 
Obce. tttefe wa·s· · 
. ' andtalked' 
siders the relationship between University rules and civil law. The interview was conducted by Observer News Editor John Abowd, ed.) 
Q. Some of the controversy that has arisen around the so-called "imminent danger clause" was caused by its recent conflict with civil actions, namely the drug cases. How do you think this conflict should be handled? 
A. We have to keep from being confused. First of all, we have passed the "in loco parentis" stage of University development. Historically, it was true that a student committing a civil crime or accused of such a crime was turned over to University authorities for punishment. The courts have thrown "in loco parentis" out as a viable theory at the university level. Therefore, a student should be treated the same as any other citizen when he is in the city. It is possible for one action to violate both the civil law and the university rules. 
Whenever a single action violates the rules of more than one orgainization (legally this is refered to as a sovereign), then each sovereign has a right to determine guilt or innocence, on the same set of facts, because they each have a concern for their community. 
Q. Could you give some examples of this idea of dual sovereignty? 
A. For instance, if I deliberately refuse to pay my income tax, I am subject to at least five con­current penalties. The federal government will probably start a criminal action against me. The federal government could also start a civil action against me to collect the money. Since state 
,-. 

·Who tried~tcft.e~aC.f1(.mt!ttmawJt«.11JYe.~.:;; 
::1 ,'. 


·once there 
. ' . . 
···.. '· 

.Nof an·m~n. --··_. 'aJK·;'1R.:'DeAiiCe·,;_..ft.ll"~au~mleR.l81f

;' ot 

·-.·Not· 
Facenda 
(This is the third in a series of interviews with University Vice­president and General Counsel Philip Faccenda on the University Judicial Code. In this 
•

explains· judicial practices 
income tax is based on the federal tax, the state could initiate two similar actions. If I am found guilty the bar association would disbar me because commission of a felony is automatic disbarment. That's five separate court actions because of one violation. One action can have many reactions. 
Q. This idea of dual jurisdiction caused some obvious problems during the drug case proceedings. One of the biggest of these was that on the civil level the question of guilt was thrown out because of evidential terms yet in the university level the question of guilt was pursued. Weren't the protections of the civil law denied on the university level because of the use of the "imminent danger clause"? 
A. That's not true. We deal constantly with inaccuracies and we report inaccuracies, and they become fact if they are repeated often enough. One action, as I said, can submit the accussed to more than one trial but only to one trial by a given sovereign. "Double jeopardy" involves only one sovereign. There can be as many trials as there are different sovereigns. Each has the op­portunity to use its own evidence but only one, the state, has the power to subpoena evidence. 
The problem in this case is that the university's evidence is better than the evidence of the state. In the three cases that have been appealed, the defendants have been found guilty. The appeals court has lowered the punishment for two of the three accused and retained the Dean of Student's punishment for the other, but all three have been found guilty. The fourth student's case is still pending in the court. He has not asked for an appeal. 
Q. Why  doesn't  the  University  
turn  its  evidence  over  to  the  
courts?  

A. If the University made it its business to see to it that each of its students who could be was forced into jail, that would be the answer. To suggest that the University try to convict any student just because they know evidence against him is ridiculous. 
Q. What would a civil court do if a conviction by the University Judicial system was tested? A.First of all, there would be no problem with the several sovereigns because that idea is accepted by the law. The tests have always been on the question of "double jeopardy." There has never been a test of the theory that a penalty by a school or by a bar association is the equivalent of a criminal sentence. It would have to be equal to be "double jeopardy." 
In theory, what we have here is a double punishment but op­ponents don't recognize the fact that there has been more than one community offended by the action. What the courts would consider first is the question of guilt or innocence and this is what your paper has ignored. If the student had been found guilty by legal means then I think the court would refuse to hear the test case. 

Professor Voeglin speaks about philosophic growth 
Civilization, in the modern era, was forced to seek a new apocalypse every twenty years, thus forming "paroxysms of successive avant-gardes". Eric Voeglin said Friday evening as he concluded a two day con­
ference  on  his  works  on  new  
departures  in  western  political  
thought.  .  

The main idea of Pro(essor Voeglin's lecture was the problem of man trying to express his experiences in symbols. He connected this with the problem of "the relation between the truth 
ACCOUNTING MAJORS 

1/5 OF CPA'S IN USA ARE FORMER STUDENTS OF 
Becker CPA Review Course 
of philosophy and the truth of revelation." · 
Prof. Voeglin drew a contrast between Plato and the Gospel of Saint John to demonstrate this relation. According to Prof. Voeglin, Plato calls the Cosmos the son of God, while the Gospel calls Jesus, a man, the son of God. So while Christianity was forced to express itself in Greek philosophical thought in order to spread through the Roman Empire, it was differentiated by its placing of God in the con­ciousness of man rather than in the Universe. 
Prof. Voeglin felt that truth is being unfolded in history. Truth, to him, is limited by the horizons of five questions. These questions do not form a series of propositions from which one can 
continued on page 8 

BLUE MANTLE 
Monday Night 7:00 
Blue Mantle Org. Meeting 
Le Mans Deck 
Anyone interested, please come. Artists, layout, photographer and copy. 
3, 1971 
THE,OBSER 



Vietnam: money drain 
by Jim McDermott 
The United States has made a "bad investment" in continuing its involvement in the Indochina I d d I
war • cone u e severa
economics professors at a 
student government sponsored forum on the economics of Vietnam held last night in the library lounge. 
Keynoting the symposium, Assoc. Prof. Thomas Swartz discussed the traditional view of the economic effect of a war, an increase in the national income. The effects of the "Great 
Depression" of the 1930's and the 
slump following the second world war were both counteracted by 
u.s. involvement in a war. 
"In this view, Vietnam was poorly timed," Swartz told the 
. 

small group. "It came at a time
when we were at full em­
ployment," and the result was the "chaos" that is presently . t" f th 
charactens IC o e economy. 
De-escalation from the war would not pose a great threat to the economy, he continued, but the fears of workers that their jobs were dependant on con­tinued military spending would hamper any economic planning for withdrawal. 
Frank Jones, an assistant professor, added that there was some evidence that the economic returns of the war spending may not be as large as had been previously expected. Noting that planners had anticipated a "multiplier" effect for the ex­penditurees, he said that this may have destroyed the "one appealing aspect" of the war. 
He explained that the war has 
drained private expenditure far more than had been projected in early estimates. Assoc4 Prof. Dennis Dugan
chairman of the department;
noted the benefits and costs of the 
war. The benefits that had been claimed for the war, an impetus to economic growth and a boost to national pride, are both myths, he concluded. The costs of the war, the actual expenditures, the loss of 55,000 men and their future earning ability' and the lost opportunity of the soldiers in Vietnam added up to over $200 

billion. "The war has been especially frustrating for economists," Assistant Professor Kenneth Jameson added. He found that the economy had become less able 
to respond adequately to the 
shock of maJ"or expenditures, and 
had become dependent ori the continued existence of protected industries. . ­
Additionally, "the war came at a time when the economy was functioning well. Itmessed up the system more than we could handle. It destroyed much of the prosperity of the Sixties." 
The lost opportunity to gain a "peace dividend" at the end of the war was also noted by Prof: Jameson. According to a recent Brookings Institute report by Charles Schultze, former director of the federal budget under the Johnson Administration, the "peace dividend" has been lost. 
The problem in Vietnam will not be the de-escalation of the war, but will be the re-ordering of national priorities Jameson concluded. ' 

Bottles. cans and on tap, the three best beers in America is Blatz. 






Goodoldblatzisbest. 
r.------------~-----­
1 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
' 
' 
t
' 
t t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t t 
t 
t t 
t 
t 
t 
't t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
t 
~-------------------------------------------• 
~ ----~--­

-
THE OBSERVER May 3, 1971 

WITH MAX SHULMAN 
(B11 lheaulhorofRally Round Ike Flag, Bovs ... Dobie Gillis ... ell".) 
Groovy Gifts for Grabby Grads 
Yes, I know how busy you are-cramming for finals, decipher­ing your notes, helping old grads find their dentures after Class Day-but let me interrupt your manifold activities-cramming for finals, deciphering your notes, searching for meat in the dormi­tory stew-to remind you that Commencement Day is almost upon us, and it's high time you started shopping for presents to give your friends who are graduating. So pause a moment in your busy schedule-cramming for finals, deciphering your notes, raising bail-to look over this list of charming gift suggestions. 
We will start with the hardest gift problem of all: what do you give the person who has everything? Well sir, here are some gifts I promise you he does not have: 
1. 
A low hurdle. 

2. 
A street map of Perth, Australia. 

3. 
Fifty pounds of goose fat. 

4. 
A supply of Miller High Life Beer. 


"What?" you exclaim, your young eyebrows leaping in per­pendicular incredulity. "The person who has everything does not have a supply of Miller High Life Beer?" you rasp, your young lips curling in horizontal derision. "What arrant nonsense!" you snarl, making a coarse gesture. 
But I reply with an emphatic "No!" The person who has everything, I insist, does not have a supply of Miller High Life Beer-not for long anyhow-because if he is a person who enjoys a beer light but mellow, hearty but delicate, a beer that cloys not, neither does it pall, a beer that is forever amber and forever ambrosia, a beer deliciously dependable and dependably delicious, a beer, in short, for all seasons-if, I say, he is a person who enjoys such a beer-and who does not? eh? who does not?-then he does not have a supply of Miller High Life. What he has is a supply of empty Miller cans and bottles and a thirst that could turn dangerous if neglected. 
So of course we will give all our graduating friends plenty of Miller High Life. And if you're looking for some additional gifts, too, here are more suggestions: 
For someone graduating with a degree in American history, how about a hand-blown jade figurine of Millard Fillmore with a clock in the stomach? (Mr. Fillmore, incidentally, was the only American president with a clock in his stomach. It's true of course that James K. Polk had a stem-winder in his head and Chester A. Arthur, as you know, chimed on the quarter-hour, but only Mr. Fillmore of all our chief executives had a clock in his stomach. To be sure, Franklin Pierce had a sweep second hand and Zachary Taylor ticked and Martin Van Buren had a Swiss movement but, I repeat, Mr: Fillmore and Mr. Fillmore alone had a clock in his stomach. Moreover, Mr. Fillmore was the first president with power steering. Small wonder they called him "Old Hickory!") 
But I digress. Returning to Graduation gifts, here is another that is sure to please-a gift certificate from the American Society of Chiropractors. Accompanying each certificate is this enchanting little poem : 
Is your tailbone now a tailbone? Has your sacrum been dislodged'! Are you hating vertebrating? Come right in and get massaged. 
Is your lumbar growing number? Has your pelvis run aground1 Does your caudal tend to dawdle? Come right in and let us pound. 
Finally, if you have a music-loving friend, how about a per­sonal portable radio that plugs right into his ear? Next year you can give him a little pick to dig the plug out. 
• * * 
When the ezcitement of Commencement i8 over, we, the brewers of Miller Beer, have what seems to us a fine suggestion: sit down for a. peaceful moment and relaz with a glass of Miller. If fiOu've got the time, we've got the beer. 



N.D. loss string reaches 8 
by Jim Donaldson 
Observer Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame baseball team stretched its losing · streak to eight games over the weekend, dropping a three game series with Miami of Ohio Friday and Saturday in Oxford and bowing to Xavier at Cartier Field on Sunday. The Irish nine's record now stands at 7-18. 
Friday's loss to Miami, which is rated no. 9 nationally, was a heartbreaking one for coach Jake Kline's club. The Irish held a 3-o lead going into the last inning of play and were on the verge of an upset victory but their hopes were crushed by AI Mills' grand slam homer with none out in the bottom of the ninth. 
Rich Eich, a sophomore left­bander, had gone all the way on the mound for Notre Dame and had shut out the hard-hitting Redskins for eight innings, holding them to just four base hits, but his control failed him in the final frame. Three straight walks set the stage for Mills' blast. 
Eich's record is now o-2 for this year. 
Captain Charlie Horean had given the Irish an early lead by belting a long, bases empty home run to center field in the second inning. 
Singles by Pete Schmidt, Horan and Joe LaRocca in the eighth inning brought home the second· Notre Dame tally. 
The Irish added their last run in the top of the ninth. Jim Panici opened the frame with a single and when the ball got by the Redskins' left fielder, Panici advanced to third. Bob Roemer plated Panici with a sacrifice fly. 
The Irish, downhearted after Friday's setback, were no match for Miami on Saturday and lost both ends of a twin bill. The Redskins won the first game, 11­2, and took the nightcap 6----1. 
In the first game, Miami hit Irish starter Jim Noe hard in the early going, tagging him for three runs in the second inning, and two in the third. The Red­skins added a single run in the fifth inning and pushed across five more markers in the sixth stanza. 
The loss dropped Noe's record to 2-2 on the year. 
Miami banged out 14 hits in the one-sided contest, including the two home runs. Don Eversman rode on of Noe's pitches out of the park with two men on base in the second and Ken Kovacs Junior right-hander Art Webb was charged with the loss, his first decision of the year. 
Xavier took an early lead, scoring two runs in the second inning off N.D. starter, Mike Riddell, but the Irish tied the count with a pair of markers in their half of the second. A single by Krill, Roemer's RBI double and an infield error accounted for the Irish tallies. 
Xavier regained the lead in the top of the third, pushing across three runs and building up a 5-2 advantage. 
Once again, the Irish fought back to tie the score, picking up a single run in the fourth and ad­ding another pair in the sixth. 
A walk, an infield error and a fielder's choice gave N.D. its fourth inning tally and while Krill's single, a walk to Tom O'Connor, Roemer's sacrifice 
l

Charlie Horan bit a home nm for tlae lrlsb in Friday's leSII to Miami 
clouted a grand slam in the sixth. and a two-run single by Webb Horan and Panici drove in brought home the two runs in the Notre Dame's two runs. sixth. In the nightcap, the Redskins 
Xavier wrapped up their
scored two runs in their first time 
victory by scoring thee runs in
at bat against Irish starter Ron 
the seventh inning.

Schmitz and were never headed · 
The Irish were able to pick up a 
thereafter. They scored three 
run in theeighthon Dan Phelps'
runs in the third inning and one in 
pinch-hit single, a walk to Sch­
the fifth while handing Schmitz 
midt, LaRocca's infield single
his fifth defeat of the year against 
· and a sacrifice fly by Horan, but
two victories. 

weren't able to catch Xavier.
Phil Krill drove in Notre 
The Irish nine will attempt to
Dame's only run of the second 
break their losing streak this
game with a fourth-inning hit. 
afternoon in Evanston, Ill.,
The Redskins long ball bats 
against the Northwestern
continued to boom in the second 
Wildcats.

game as Art Grzeskowiak belted 
Notre Dame will return home
a two-run homer in the third 
after the Wildcat game and will
inning. 

play host to Hillsdale College
The Irish were unable to snap 
Tuesday afternoon at Cartier
their losing skein Sunday as 
Field. The Irish will play a
Xavier tagged five Notre Dame 
doubleheader with Hillsdale,
pitchers for nine hits and eight 
beginning at 3 p.m. 

runs, beatiJ!g the Irish, 8-6. 
ATTENTION ALL 
SOPHOMORES 
Sophomores may start placfn' rln' orders NOW 
.Hours: 1:30-4:30 Monday Thru Friday m off1ce on second floor of ND Bookstore 
May 3, 1971 
THE OBSERVER 
Page 7 





No. I unitwins Blue-Gold game 
by Vic Dorr Observer Sports Writer 
Notre Dame's varsity football team concluded more than a month of spring drills Saturday with the annual Blue-Gold game­a full-dress scrimmage held under exact game conditions on the stadium field. 18,073 spec­tators, including scouts from Northwestern and Purdue, were present at the scrimmage, but anyone hoping to see the Irish quarterback dilemna solved once and for all was disappointed. 
Coach Ara Parseghian started Jim Bulger at quarterback for the blue squad, but alternated him with Pat Steenberge throughout the afternoon. Cliff Brown, the other prime con­tender in the QB derby, directed the gold team for most of the game, although he was spelled for brief intervals by Brian Doherty, another freshman. After the game, which saw Steenberge and Bulger play to nearly a standoff, Parseghian said: 
"If the season were starting tomorrow and I had to select a quarterback right now, I'd probably pick Steenberge because of his experience. He has been hampered all spring by a sprained ankle and a broken finger on his throwing hand." But, while Parseghian gave Steenberge a cautious edge in the QB race, the Irish coach didn't rule out Bulger or Brown, either. "Jim Bulger has improved tremendously and actually has had a better spring than he in­dicated today. Cliff Brown has simply been swamped with the maze of terminology and technique that is involved in playing the quarterback position. He's gained a great deal of ex­perience in the past two weeks in our stadium scrimmages, and he's learned to react to game­type situations." 
The game itself, which was almost forced to take second place to the battle for the quar­terback role, saw the first-team blues capture an expected 35-12 decision over their gold-clad opponents. But stiff resistance by the gold defense and some timely aerial antics by Brown kept the issue in doubt for nearly three quarters. 
The two teams volleyed punts for much of the first period, and neither was able to mount much of a drive until Bulger's blues received the football on the gold 40-yard line with slightly more than three minutes left in the initial quarter. Then, relying mainly on line plunges by fullback Andy Huff, Bulger drove his team steadily downfield. With 3rd and eight from the gold 13, Bulger fired a pass over the middle to tight end Mike Creaney. Linebacker Tom Devine nearly intercepted Bulger's toss, but he only suc­ceeded in tipping it to Creaney, who was standing a _yard deep in the end zone. Mike Eckman converted for the blues, and the first team defense then went to work to protect their 7-0 ad­vantage. 
The blue defense didn't have long to wait, either, as the golds mounted their first serious threat of the day when Mike Park~r plucked a Pat Steenberge pass out of the air and returned it to the blue 25 yard line just as the 

The Irish Eye 
-===================================================-A 
note on Dee's departure 
After seven years as head basketball coach at Notre Dame, Johnny 
Dee decided to call it quits last Friday. 
His decision to resign made a lot of people on this campus happy ­
the same people who booed Dee at Irish basketball games in the Convo 
in the past few years. The "Dump Dee" club has had a substantial 
membership on campus the past couple of years. 
Let me say that anyone who says that John Dee has not contributed 
to Notre Dame basketball, that he has not done a good job, is doing the 
man a great injustice. 
I don't think that John Dee is a great coach. He's not a John Wooden 
or a Joe Mullaney. But John Dee IS a very good coach. Notre Dame 
and its student body owe him at the very le~st, a "Thank you", and 
most certainly not a "Good riddance". 
When coach Dee came to Notre Dame seven years ago his job was to 
rebuild the Irish basketball program. 
Coach Dee said that he " ...came to Notre Dame with a specific goal 
-building a basketball program that Notre Dame could point to with 
pride." And I don't think that there is anyone associated with the game 
of basketball in the country today that doesn't respect Notre Dame 
and John Dee. 
Under Dee's direction, Irish basketball squads won 116 games and 
lost 80. In his seven seasons at the helm, Notre Dame played in five 
post-season tournaments, making four NCAA appearances and 
participating in the NIT on one occassion. 
This year's team finished the season with a 20-9 ~ record, g1vmg 
coach Dee his fourth consecutive 20-win campaign, a feat never before 
accomplished in 72 years of Notre Dame's basketball history. 
In 23 years of coaching high school, college, AAU and professional ball, Dee has had 22 winning seasons. 
Dee's teams have taken on, and beaten, the best opposition in the 
country. He has made Notre Dame a bastketball power. You can't ask 
much more from the man. 
Perhaps the new coach" will improve Notre Dame's basketball 
fortunes. That's going to be awfully difficult. Improving on four 
straight twenty-win seasons against the type of schedule Notre Dame · plays is well nigh impossible, especially since the club's top six players have graduated. I have no idea who Dee's successor will be and won't even venture a guess. I know that he'll have to work hard to match Dee's record. 
Dee worked hard to get Notre Dame basketball where it is today and 
his efforts went largely unappreciated. I just didn't want him to leave 
without a "thanks". 
were awarded a free kick after the safety, and Ed Gulyas boomed a 62 yarder to the gold 32­yard line. Two plays later, Eric Patton stole a Brown pass and returned it to the gold 27. Bulger directed the blue offense to a first quarter was ending. Three plays later, though, the golds found themselves with a 4th and 15 from the blue 30, and Brown abandoned his quarterbacking chores to attempt a 47 yard field 
His kick was his second TD of the day on a three-year plunge with 5:35 remaining. 
Cieszkowski's touchdown closed the scoring, but Bulger did make two final tries--60-yard bombs which were in-
John Cieszkowski, taking handoff from Pat Steenberge, scored 2 TD's Saturday. 
enough, but it-was wide to the right by several yards. The gold offense was given the ball right back, but once again Brown couldn't penetrate the blue 30. So, with 4th and 3 from the 34, he again lined up to attempt a placement...this one of 51 yards. The· crowd, which had been shaken by Brown's 47 yard try, t wild when his 51 yarder 
through the uprights. 
Brown further shook things up by knocking the ensuing kickoff out of the end zone. The blues go the ball on their own 20, and Steenberge promptly cranked them up for an 80 year scoring march. Greg Hill scored the TD, but the big play in this drive was Steenberge's bomb to John Cieszkowski, which carried from the blue 37 to the white 20. Brown's offensive unit then returned the favor, by driving 60 yards for a touchdown-their only one of the day. Brown hit tight end Dave Casper for the score, and then converted himself to make the score 14-10 at half. 
The golds got the football again to begin the second half, but this time it was the blue defense which came up with the big play. Linebacker Rick Thomann in­tercepted Brown on the gold 26, giving the ball back to Bulger, who had been reinserted as the blue signal-caller. Bulger moved his team to the gold 11, and then gave the ball to Huff three times in a row. Huff responded by scorin~ the third blue TD, on a five-yatd power play. Eckman's kick made it 21-10 and it was never really close after that. 
The final gold points came late in the third period, when Jeff Rein dumped Bulger in his own end zone as the blue team qb was attempting to pass. The blues touchdown-their fourth of the tercepted--during the closing day--in eight plays with moments of the game. Cieszkowski scoring from the Bulger completed 7 of 18 passes one. The score remained at 28-10 for 1 tally and Steenberge hit on 7 for the remainder of the third, of 18 also, but for no touchdowns. and much of the fourth period. The only other margin between Then, midway through the final the two was in interceptions, quarter, Brian Doherty punted where Bulger had three-~me for the golds and dropped his kick more than Steenberge. For the out of bounds on the blue six-yard golds, Cliff Brown hit on 7 of 22 line. Steenberge came in to for 1 TD, and he too was in-quarterback the first team of-tercepted twice. Andy Huff, who fense, and he ignited a 94'yard, 15 has made an outstanding play touchdown drive. During comeback this spring, led all this drive, the most consistent of ground gainers with 42 yards in 7 the scrimmage, he worked carries for 1 TD. Gary Diminick chiefly with screen passes and was the leading rusher for the occasional ground efforts by Hill gold squad, with 37 yards in 5 and Cieszkowski. "Cisco''scored carries. 

Hering A wards presented 
The winners of the annual Hering Awards were announced during halftime of Saturday's Blue-Gold game. 
Players presented with awards were: Outstanding defensive lineman -Walt Patulski Outstanding defensive linebacker -Eric Patton Outstanding defensive back ­Clarence Ellis Outstanding offensive receiver -Tom Gatewood Outstanding offensive lineman -John Dampeer Outstanding offensive back ­Ed Gulyas 
Comeback Award-Andy Huff 
Most consistent offensive lineman -Dan Novakov Most improved offensive player -Jim Bulger Freshman defensive back ­Tim Rudnick Freshman inside linebacker ­Gary Potempa Freshman outside linebacker ­Tim Sullivan Freshman offensive lineman ­Frank Pomarico 
Freshman tight end -Dave Casper Freshman halfback -Greg Hill 

Jones signs with Chaps 
DALLAS, Tex.-The Texas Chaparrals of the American Basketball Assn. announced Saturday the signing of Collis Jones of Notre Dame. 
Jones was a first-round draft choice of the rival National Basketball Assn. Milwaukee Bucks, and Texas' fifth-round choice. 
Terms of the contract were not released. Among the reasons Jones offered for choosing to sign with the Chaps over the NBA champion Bucks were "a very fair contract and the opportunity to make an immediate playing contribution to the team." 
Jones set an all-time record at Notre Dame by playing in 85 consecutive varsity games and became the fifth leading scorer in Notre Dame history. 
-
May 3, 1971

Page 8 THE OBSERVER 
N.D. students witnessWho is the first girl in your life? disorders at CapitalMom continued from page 1 killed their own officers. disillusioned hawk, who has The majority of protestors hope Don't forget Mother's Day this Sunday. given up _ hope for a military the disruptions tomorrow victory in Indochina ­employs an ning will be non-violent. aide who told us, "Hell, everyone The thirty Notre Dame people is against the war." The aide here are part of the went on to give support to delegation, which Nixon's policy of leaving the claims about five bombers in Indochina and said, members. Plans call for "We want to maintain interests in Indiana people to move to Indochina, so that means we have intersection fo Pennsylvania to protect our financial interests Avenue and Constitution at 5:45 there through a military force." a.m. to block the intersection, Representative Brademas' two talk to the police and52577 U. S. 31 NO. aides believe that Congress can motorists, and, if be convinced to cut off funds for submit to arrest. Whether this the war soon. They noted that the means the protest can 272-2966 conservatives were very peacefully carried out, as we now disturbed that the war was un­rest in the Student Union dermining the internal strength George Washington University, of the army after veterans told is still in doubt among the tired,CLASSIFIED Congressman of the two hundred confused, but hopeful and ten "fighting" incidents, Dame contingent hereADVERTISEMENTS where United States soldiers Washington. Mail in or come by Observer office HOUSING For information call 7471 Prof Voeglin on philosophyFor rent June 1-Sept l. 3 bedroom Must Sell: Ampex stereo cassette Siudent Union Trip--Eur:;pe home :excellent condition & location, deck full-length Afghanistan coat. S209 D"!t.-Amsterdam-Det., air conditioned, -.dish washer, fur­289-1861. NY-London-NY Contact 1st continued from page 4nished, carport $125a month-call 8100 Bank Campus Travel Bureau deduce a logical system, but a neoplatonism". In this viewpoint, or 8229 after 8 p.m. 283-7080 9-12, 1-4:30. series of nine propositions which the platonic idea of the universeAUTOMOTIVE Summer sublet. 4 rooms, 1 prevent the formation of a being saturated with the Divine bedroom. Near north side, 1962 VW Bus, newly rebuilt engine, SERV:ICES system. essence was reintroduced, afterChicago. Ideal for 2-3 students highway condition, seats remove it (adults). Write 3430 N. Lake Shore Prof. Voeglin also examined 1 Christianity had emphasized thecamper desired, dune buggy rear­Crypt-New Hours Drive. Sheila Mattimoe, Mary ·end later on; Call: Calhoun 283­12:30 -4:00 the problem of plethos, which he human consciousness. Beth Bradfish. 7274, days. Now on stock called "The diverse manifold of moderns, therefore, tend to view Hendrix -Cry of Love.· $3.60 types." Plato, who wanted a the ancients as possessingFor rental. Summer.June, July, 1959 TR -3. Excellent condition, new Cat Stevens-Tea for Tillerman -$3.10 homogenous society of very wonderful culture whichAugust. Near N.D. 4 Bedrooms, battery, generator, regulator, tires, Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection­utilities. Furnished: $150 per similar citizens, is contracted forcibly destroyed byand more. Price to sell $650. Call 232­$3.10 month pi us refundable deposit. 4896 or 272-2568. Mountain -Nantucket Sleighride with Aristotle who favors a Christians and the barbarians. Call 287-1777. After 5:30. variety in the people composing a Prof. Voeglin says that these '66 Mustang Must sell; gettingDesperate for rent-June 1st to state. Aristotle noted that the moderns ignore the decaymarried. $500 Call Roy 8438 Aug. 1st. 5 bedroom, near N D. Call German exchange student offers realization of social disorder does Rome because it is contrary to Marilyn 284-4983 her services in tutoring. Call 233­PEANUTS PERSONAL not of itself, produce social order. ~ th~ir logic. They view rna~ 6966. With the Empire of Alexander gomg through threeSummer Apart. for Rent. Near Campus, air conditioned. 1 PLEASE HELP ME. Stop my however the problem becam~ "childhood, adolescense bedroom. Call Terry 288-1120 Ford cars from killing people and much ~ore complex as there maturity." Thus, they tend to see polluting our air! Hot News Flash: New company born -emerged a much greater man as emerging into a new ageLOST AND FOUND VANGUARD LEATHER GOODS, diversity in the people under a of adulthood. Prof: A.P. I NC-823 Flanner Hall. 283-1176. given ruler. remarked that they I_g!loreLOST: wrist watch, Lucien Pickard. N.D. Football Office Spec_ializing in: watchband, wrist­In the Renaissance Prof fourth age of man, semhty, when lost after break: tasty reward. Call bands, belts, wallets, headbands, hair Tom 8014. barrettes, custom -made sandals, Voeglin claims there 'was ~ man d~cays and dies, since thisFor our heroes, the LeMans jeans and anything else made ofCoaches -Ernie, Gary, Rich, Paul. constant desire that the would Imply that golden ages can tolen: 1 Mini-8 tape player and 2 leather--Owned and operated by MiltYou're the greatest. We love you. generation in which one was likewise fa?e away. From this,speakers from a car in D1 parking Jones, Wayne Hall.The LeMans Football Teamlot. Player had the name "Tom living, was undergoing a great Pr~~-. Voeghn feels t~at the sents,.~P.S. How about a consolation game?Smith" and the city of "Milan" Mail Contributions tor the medical change, that would result in a of Immanent achiev~men Michigan engraved on the bottom. aid center of Quang Na i to Box 626, new glorius epoch of man. This, ~ather. than the achievement Reward of $10 for return of player Happy Birthday Dad ! ! ! Notre Dame Indiana. The Voeglin connected with a rise in Itself, IS the mark of the modern or information leading to the I love you. God bless. Refugees need help. Please con­identity of the thief(ves). Call 3116 Love, what he called "neo­period. Jean tribute to the Refugee Aid ----------­Program. HELP WANTED To St. Mary's champs, the Holy Cross football team. We love you SINGLE? LuLLEGE GRAD? Jewly formed waterbed company all. The coaches. Meet others. Join the CAC's for McGlynn stresses need for wants campus representatives for social. recreational, or cultural hottest selling item in states. activities. Write: Catholic Alumni Good commissions for a "few hours Club. P.O. Box 2171 South Bend,RIDESwork per week that can be fitted easily active concern of students Ind. 46615 to your schedule. Need Transportation? We neea Write: drivers tor new cars being shipped All organizations must be charted continued from page 1 McGlynn admitted that whenLightrays Designs, Inc. to: Boston, New York, through the University tor the Although these areas are he was a senior in 1960-the days Love sleep water beds division Philadelphia, Washington, coming academic year. Register3727 \1\/lllnut St. Carolina's, Atlanta, Pittsburgh, lighted and patrolled, the of morning checks; lights out, andin the Services Commission: Philadelphia, Pa. 19104 Cleveland, Cincinatti, Memphis, assaults are difficult for the 12:30 curfew on weekends with4th Floor La Fortune, Afternoons. ·Pr {:all: _(215) 349-9330. Dallas, Houston, San Antonio, Call 7757 security force to stop, McGlynn one week confinement on campusDenver, Phoenix, Salt Lake City, said. Constraints of budget andMail contributions for jhe medical aid for every five minutes late-theLos Angeles, San Francis.co, center at Quang Nga i to Box 626, MISC. wages keep the force small, and students had their fun with theSeattle, and vicinities. Take yourNotre Dame,.lndiana. The refugees things home! You pay gas and ATTENTION PITT CLUB: "we have to catch somebody in security force too. lneed help. Please contribute to the tolls. Must be 21. Call Brian Furey, Meeting . Mon. May 10, 7:00. 2nd the act to make it stick." He recalls a cop they calledRefugee Aid Program._ 283-3651. floor LaFortune. Elections and In many cases McGlynn added, "Fat Frank," who would prevent Anyone interested in working in luggage truck. Any member the students can recognize out­students from carrying beer into Student Center pool room next TRAVEL wishing to run for office, contact: siders and potential trouble Washington Hall. The would fake year ca .. Br. Gorch at 7558. Charlie 3653 or Bill 1730 by Tues,Spend the summer in Europe. Charter better than the force. "But ifMay 4. that they had beer in BUY AND SELL jets to London, Amsterdam and Paris. people don't call, the force can't jackets, and it was always a bigMOre than 40 dates available. IN­For Sale help."Refrigerators joke when Fat Frank Maxi White Sheepskin Coat -Small. TERNATIONAL STUDENTS All Compact Cool Refrigerators If the passivity of the com­search them and find nothingCall 272-4709 ACADEMIQUE SOCIETY. Also eligible for many other benefits will be picked up this Wednesday munity is hindering security, so "We had our fun," McGlynn Most Books tor: Smelser­(railroad passes, hotel discounts, etc) and Friday from noon -4. Please is the active verbal abuse the said, "but the vicious American Revolution, Menard-For information call Frank 233-8142 have someone around to let us pick force receives from some calling wasn't there." He feels American Constitutional it up. Thanks. Dick 6723. students. there will be "stern action" in theNorling-Europe since 1920, sz: Want to take a trip to EUROPE thi!, "These immature students future if this verbal abuse doescczesniak-Russia, Colliegiate summer? Fly in a jet chartered by the vent their anger on a cop they not stop.Seminar; Also many others. Call 'JATINAL UNION OF STUDENTS 7647 ll.ND SAVE! Approx. 60 dates RATES know can't fight back by virtue of Jerry McGlynn sent out a final wailable for round trips betw. LondonPortable Tape Recorder tor Sale Call his oath. Some people on the force plea: "With the help of 6849. md N.Y. this summer for $245. From .... 1doy 2­\3UV• 1­have quit because of this. The community, StudentLondon connect to any of 50 EuropearFor Sale G-10 ... .711 1.00 ·­1.15 1.21 rest are discouraged; but this ment, and the Observer, I hope:ities at discount fares. For example:Nikon F with meter, flash, tripod, ,,.,. .10 1.00 1.30 1.75 ~1·. ondon, Paris: $12.60, London Am­hasn't changed their attitude we can make the Univeristy($250). Call 1081. 1.15 uo ~0 2.80sterdam: $12.00, Paris Zurich $15.00 11-20 toward their necessary func­safe and happy place to live.'·"' 21-21 ... 1.30 ~ 2.10 JABFor Sale--Gibson Semi-Hollow Zurich-Rome $20.00 Many othe1 tion." 235 JAO 4.10Guitar. Fender Super-Reverb benefits (travel passes, hotel 21-30 1.00 1.80 Amp. Pat 1775 discounts, etc.) Also available 31-3& 1.20 1.10 2.80 3.00 4.70 •!lay flights, one-way flights 31-40 .... 2.10 3.10 .... l!i.10 i$125), Return on any date, 41-45 1... 230 330 .... ....Moving off campus next year? ,-eachers, students, and immediate You'll need pots, dishes, heets, ....o 1.75 2.00 3.00 4.715 .... family eligible, group rates. For toaster, etc. Get a complete set at info and application call Tom 282­low cost. 289-4221 2250, 5-10 P.M. Man .-Fri.  

• 
mor­
Indiana presently hundred the the 
waiting necessary, 
be 
of 
Notre in 
The 
a was the 
of 
as penods, and 
Voeglin the 
their would 
name­
the Govern­
a 







