
Merger hailed by ND-SMC Trustees 
by Kevin McGill Trustees. Sr. Alma Peter, acting Trustees, said that all the reports drew up from all the sources a study and make recom­

President of St. Mary's, who said done on coeducation were concensus summary of what they mendations concerning financial 
On Sunday, March 21, a joint she was "very excited and en-available at Notre Dame's wanted to present Sunday. Ac-arrangements, including lease or meeting of the executive com-thusiastic" about the decision, meeting. Drs. Rosemary Park cording to Richard Conklin, rental agreements, for the mittees of the Boards of Trustees said that a "third institution" and Lewis Mayhew discussed Director of the Department of physical facilities of St. Mary's of St. Mary's and Notre Dame in would be formed from the union their recent study. Fr. Blantz Information Services who at-College. Palm Beach, Florida, recom-of the two. said that many trustees had been tended the meeting, "the two --Movement toward a mended the unification of the two For two days before the joint exposed to the various ideas at position papers were very similar unification of academic depart­schools, beginning immediately meeting, the executive com-other meetings, especially at although they were drafted ments, administrative areas and and being completed not later mittees had met separately in Laughin' Lodge, and mentioned seperatE!ly,"showing the .common budgets. 
thil1974-75. their regular spring meetings in that the Student Government feelings about co-education of St. -Negotiation of an agreement 
The two schools will be united which co-education was one of the proposal "probably had a lot of Mary's and Notre Dame. between Notre Dame and the completely, there will be one items discussed. influence, especially on Fr. The six hour meeting on sisters of the Holy Cross for student body, one faculty, one Fr. Thomas Blantz, Vice <Charles) Sheedy's Coordinating Sunday was primarily concerned appropriate·epresentation among president, and one ad-President for Student Mfairs and Committee." with the question of whether or the Fellows, .the trustees and the ministration and one Board of a member of the Board of Both executive committees not to merge the schools or officers of Notre Dame, and for 
• 
whether Notre Dame should go remuneration for the services of
M G h d SU d • 
C raf name aS treCfOr co-ed on its own, leaving most religious working in Notre 
details for later consideration. Dame's ad~inistration, teaching After discussion, the joint and religious ministry. committee unanimously issued The major o~der of bu~iness. at
8arkett makes appoIntments 
their combined ideas in a the present 1s the fmanc1al by Ed Ellis Barkett in conjunction with his major from Wheaton, Illinois, statement written by Conklin. problem which is important but OBSERVER News Editor announcement of St. Ed's Hall has "extensive Union ex-This release lists tfie following very involved. Fr. Jerome 
Student Union Executive President Bob Weaver to the perience," in the words of SBP general aspects of th unification Wilson, Vice-President of Secretary Bill McGrath will be prime Cabinet position of Student Barkett. Aside from his job this efforts to be worked .out the new Student Union Director. Government Executive Coor-year as Executivs Secretary, he --Engagement of consultants to Continued 011 page 12 effective April 1. dinator. Weaver will also take was Calendar Director for the 
d 

This was announced last night office on April 1. Services Commission last year, 
p0 II utI. 0 n IeveI n0 te 
by Student President John McGrath, a junior English and is a AStudent Senator from ZOff-Campus this year. 

McGrath mentioned the 
b w·ll• 0 D I 
reorganization of the Cultural y I Iam . 0 ug as 
Arts Commission as one of his primary goals as Union Director. bullet."
The pollution "point of no
He also said that he favored Speaking to a large audience in 
return" will eventually arrive if
continuation of small concert Stepan Center on March 11.
the present generation of young
series started this year, and also Justice Douglas said the pollution 
people do not use their resources
the appointment of a coordinator problem is world wide and the
and become active in civic af­
for the book and record co-ops. "technological fix" is preventing
fairs, according to Supreme
He also said that he favored the us from controls. The
Court Justice William 0.
idea of "spontaneity." technological fix, according to
Rob Weaver Bill McGrath Douglas.
McGrath said, "I feel really the Justice, is a belief that since 
He said technology will solve 
secure in moving ic there technology got us into the
·the ecology crisis only if the plans 
because of what Pohl and Oliveri problem, it will get us out. He
and ideals of the younger
Suicide claims ND 
have done this year." said thps is not so because it has 
generation are heard by those in
Weaver, a junior Government not been "profitable" to control
office. Justice Douglas said they
major from Coshocton, Ohio, will pollution.
require a "great push". and that
have as his major functions "We'll have to make a value

grad, Tim McCorry 
when they are heard, those in
activity as a liason man between judgement on the type of country
posit.ions of power will "bite the
thz cabinet, student government, we want " said Justice Douglasfeel that, for political reasons, a
Santa Tim

Anna, Cal. -and student union. and direc­as he called for national state and 
a further investigation would not
McCarry, 22, well-known torship of the Cabinet itself, and 
regional planning. He said the
be productive." She did not
campus pacifist and 1969 general coordination of activity. cost of ecological controls
elaborate on the political
graduate of Notre Dame died in He considers Public Relations, requires a reordering of 
reasons.
this small coastal town of ap­Hall Life, and academics his priorities which would mean as 
parently self-inflicted gunshot McCarry had been working major areas of concern. end of war systems.
with the Jod Hill Collective, an
wounds early Thursday night, Weaver considers his new job These controls must begin now 
March 18. organization doing anti-war work 
"a very flexible position." He because "we're worse off nowinvolving the People's Treaty,
A Summa Cum Laude said he is looking forward to the than we were 10 years ago" in­
according to Miss Casey. She
graduate, McCarry's body was combining of student govern­spite of present controls he said,
added that "close friends have
found by local police shortly after ments, and because of his job as "We could make all the water in
stated that from their knowledge
he placed the barrel of a .22 gauge director of the Notre Dame the United States swimmable for of the situation and of Tim's
rifle in his mouth and squeezed cabinet, he sees a busy schedule $10 billion, which is spent ap­
personal and political life, histhe trigger. According to John 
for th next few months. ,proxlmately every 5 months indeath was not inconsistent withCale an investigator for the Vietnam." 
Orange County Coroner's office, the principles by which he lived." Continued on page 12 Justice Douglas praisedthe county coroner pronounced Justice Douglas several states, including New the death a suicide. 
Jersey, Massachusettes and McCarry helped to organize the 
Completion planned for '74 Vermont, for their efforts against abortive lamb burning one year pollution. He cited many kinds ofago and thz student strike against pollution and was particularlythe Cambodian invasion last critical of the Army Corps of


Merger announced by Alma
May. He was a teaching assistant Engineers calling it a "free in Social Sciences at the 

this way, St. Mary's could exist wheeling federal agency" and the University of California at Irivne. by Ann Threse Darin coeducation proposals not an as an entity like the colleges of "enemy" of rivers."
endorsement of a specific plan,
McCarry was known for his 

law, business administration, Pollution of the world's oceans
also contains a lease for the
academic, political and jour­and engineering." was also criticized by the Justice. 

All academic departments of rental of St. Mary's property and nalistic activities there. 
Another possibility may be the He said they will be "devoid ofSt. Mary's College will merge buildings by the university.
A co-founder of the Notre Dame establishment of an experimental food and life and will be only awith their counterparts at Notre Continuing to be called St. Mary'sCoalition for Political Action, liberal arts college. highway in 10 years." Justice

McCarry was a regular colum­Dame by September 1974, an­campus, the property west of "If it should happen that there Douglas said ecological control ofnounced Sr. Alma Peter, acting Notre Dame will remain in thenist for the Observer last year. 
is no plan for the college," she ocean dumping must be in­president, to an all-school con­folio of the Sisters of the Holy<One of his columns has been continued, "it will become a ternational.
vocation last night. Cross.
reprinted on today's editorial college ·Of records for the Justice Douglas described hispage). He resigned in April in a In complying with the Although the agreement alumnae." . interest in ecology during a pressunanimous decision last weekend concurred by the Boards does not

dispute over the censorship Although degrees will be conference shortly after his
policies of editor Gaetano De by the Boards of Trustees of both contain a plan for · the con­conferred by St. Mary's College arrival at St. Joseph's Countyschools, she stated that the tinuance of St. Mary's as a
Sapio. in thz University of Notre Dame, Airport as an "old hobby of mine
The Observer learned of the unification program will take college within the university Sr. Alma could not pred~ct which began many years ago."
place over a three-year period. structure, Sr. Alma related thatNew York, N.Y. native's death whether the mandatory semor He said he was not involved with 
from Charlotte Casey, a former Hampered by logistics, a plan the college has three years to comprahensive exam at St. 
any groups or committees butfor exchange of residence halls decide its role.
SMC student who worked on the Mary's would continue to abe does attend protest rallies andPeople's Peace Treaty and was a and dining facilities will not be in "So far, we have suggested two reauisite for a diploma. hikes with his wife. "We're not
personal associate of McCarry. operation until September 1972. possibilities,.. she revealed. "We According to the acting really heavily involved exceptThe coeducation plan, which could expand the humanistic
Miss Casey said that "despite president, last weekend's intellectually, emotionally andthe acting president defined as a studies or could
the violent circumstances program we agreements also clarify faculty spiritually."
conglomerate of all of the reopen the nursing program. In Continued on page 8
surrounding Ti~'s d~th, friends 



Tn•1rsday, March 25, 1971 

ND's highest honor 
-Laetare awarded to Kerrs 
New York Times Drama Critic Walter F. Kerr, and his wife and fellow author. Jean, have been maned the 1971 recipients of The Laetare Medal, the University of Notre Dame's highest honor. 
Notre Dame's president, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., announced their selection Saturday night (March 20) for the honor, conferred annually since 1883 on outstanding American 
New York Times Drama Critic Walter Kerr and his wife Jean,the Catholics. The Kerrs are the author named recipient of the 1971 Laetare Award 
second couple in history to recE>ive the award. 
'Summa' fund raising campaign topples $52 million goal 
by Mike O'Hare 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, University President, and Dr. 
O.C. Carmichael Jr. national 
chairman of the program, -reported that the University had 
raised $54.5 million since laun­
ching the five-year program in 
1967. 
''The achievement is all the more noteworthy," Fr. Hesburgh, 

.----------------------------....,Carmichael said. ' 
MIDWEST'S LARGEST DI-SPLAY OF 
NEW AND U 5 ED 5 PORT 5 (AR 5 
, (

19 71 FIATS The drl · v e r s a r 


CONTINENTAL MOTORS INC. 
5800 S. LA GRANGE RD. LA GRANGE, ILL. 352-9200 
said, "Because the University is believed to be the first ever to attempt three major capital gift campaign§ in a row. •' 
Notre Dame now has raised more than $100 million in cash gifts and pledges in the last 
decade. 
"We are grateful to the alumni, parents, corporations and foundations who made com­mitments to Notre Dame." Dr. 
Carmich-ael said. "The general grounds that. she had merely tried-climate for philanthropy in the -successfully--to make people three and one half years of laugh. Risibility is one important Summa was adversely affected way in which human beings differ by the economy and by a from animals, and humor is in 
dimunition in public confidence 
in higher educatiOn. Despite this Co-e·d dl·nners cont,·nue
fact, we have exceeded our goal in advance of our deadline.. No more striking proof can be of­fercd of the loyalty of Notre Dame's constituencies" Dr. 
M·•jor areas of the "Summa" pro~ram are faculty develop­ment, $20 million, graduate education $13.9 million, special research, $4.5 million, and general University development 
_5 million. '

$13 The emphasis of the program is on increasing Notre Dame's endowment of $60.0 million in order to strengthen priority academic areas in the Univer­
· sity. Dr. Carmichael noted that 
Continued on page 10 

"In honoring Walter and Jean Kerr," said Father ;Hesburgh, "we are honoring literary craftsmanship, a quality less and less evident in contemporary society. Walter Kerr's sensitive, well-honed drama criticism has chronicled more than two decades in the life of that per­petual--yet somehow spry-­invalid known as the American theater. He has provided a badly needed benchmark for dramatic performance in a time of rapid change in the nation's theater, proving once again that the honest and articulate critical intelligence is more than a match for pens either intransigent or faddish. It would be a mistake, however, to rate his achievement above that of his wife on the 
. 

The Co-exc_hange Dmner held la~t month will be e~panded to a daily program startmg Sunday, 
Ma~ch 28. , 
T1cketsforSt.Marysstudents will be available in the lobby of LeMans Hall fro~ 1 to 2_ p:m.M~nday thru Fnday ~egmnmgFnday, March 26. _No s1gn-up ?f name or food ·service number IS requ!re~. 160 tickets per d~y will be-d1stnbu_ted at St. Mary s. 
For the first three weeks of the program tick~ts for Notre ?arne students will be available through the respective hall
t I t t d 

~t~~=~~~heo~l~ .contac~ t~~fr\:ll 
president to learn what night has short supply these days. Those with the talent to find it deserve our thanks and gratitude.'' 
Father Hesburgh said the medal would be presented to the Kerrs at a time to be announced later. They join such recent Laetare Medalists as Dr. William 
B. Walsh, a Washington, D.C., physician and humanitarian who was honored last year; Supreme Court Justice William J. Bren­nan, Jr.; R. Sargent Shriver, diplomat; poet Phyllis McGinley; labor leader George Meany, and former President John F. Kennedy. Other recipients connected with the theater include producer Augustine Daly in 1894, actress Margaret Anglin in 1927, and actress Irene Dunne in 1949. 
Walter Kerr, 57, is a native of Evanston, Ill., and took his bachelor's and master's degrees at Northwestern University. 
Continued on page 12 
Thursday, March 25, 1971 


Page 3 




Appeals Board suspends Badger 

by Cliff Wintrode 
The University Appeals Board sustained one provisional suspension and lifted another in seperate hearings held before spring break. · 
Senior Don Badger was suspended for this semester with the opportunity to re-apply for admission next fall while senior Mark Hannahan was removed from suspension and placed on probation for this semester. 
Hannahan will be given credit 
for his present courses and he will be allowed to graduate in May. 
The two had been provisionally 
suspended by Dean of Students 
Fr. James Riehle under direction 
of University Provost Fr. James 
Burtchaell. They were suspended 
started after being arrested in a 
city wide drug raid last 
December. 
Riehle suspended them under a clause in the new judicial code which allowed for provisional suspension of persons who are considered an "Imminent danger" to the univeristy. 
Hannahan and Badger were both found innocent earlier this year in civil court of the charges 

SB youths jailed 

arising from the raid. 
Riehle has stated previously that the university is not bound by the civil court. 
Badger was critical of the procedures of the Appeals Board and said yesterday that the Board's decision was unfounded in fact. "They (the members of the Board) were shoddy. They run a court, but they don't call it a court," said Badger. "It seemed to me that I had put up an infallible def~nse," he added. Badger claimed that the University represented by Riehle at the hearing "never defined what an 'imminent danger' was, 
much less prove that I was such 
a danger." 
Badger said that throughout the 
entire hearing the Board stressed 
thwt it was .not a trial and in­
dicated informality as the ap­
proach used. 
"Everything was informal except the verdict," Badger said: Exposing him to the draft a year early, the loss of the semester's fees, the danger to his career, and his suspension from school is .not evidence of informality, he added. 
He also said tha the verdict and these results were not in accord with the Board's stated policy of correction and not punishment. 
Badger said that ths univer­sity's case rested on his "private" admission to Riehle that he had used drugs. He said he also told Riehle that he had stopped taking drugs six to eight weeks previously and had never sold drugs. 
Badger said that his admission did not constitute what he thought an appropriate case for the university's assertion that this by itself was sufficient to consider him an "imminent danger" to the university. 
Continued on page 10 

Institute seeks applications for coordinating committee 
by Tom Degnan 
The Kennedy Institute for Community Action is presently seeking applications for nine openings on thz thirteen member cooridinating committe. 
Founded two years ago in honor of the late Robert F. Kennedy, the Institute is aimed at encouraging and directing 

Thefts hilight break 
by Gary Rufo 
The apprehension of two South Bend youths, who confessed to a number of thefts on the Notre Dame campus, high-lighed a relatively uneventful vacation period. 
The youths, according to Ar­thur H. Pears, Director of Security, admitted to numerous thefts, primarily of wallets and money, from five campus building. No details were given concerning the buildings involved or the total removed. 
The two juveniles, aged 12 and 15, were picked up recently just south of Niles, Michigan by three police agencies shortly after stealing a motor vehicle in South Bend. 
Pears felt that it is the fault of the students, staff and faculty members for allowing the campus to be so readily ac­cesible. He stressed that "more stringent security precautions 
Hoopes talk 
on Viet war 

set tonight 
Townsend Hoopes, recent under secretary of thz Air Force, will speak on "The Limits of In­tervention" at 8 p.m. tonight in the University of Notre Dame's Memorial Library Auditorium. 
The author of an inside accoknt of thz de-escalation of the Viet­nam war titled "The Limits of Intervention," Hoopes is a close student of defense policy matters and international affairs. He was under secretary of the Air Force from 1967 to 1969, and was deputy assistant secretary of defense for the New East, South Asia from 1965 to 1967. 
The public is invited to attend his talk, sponsored by the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Academic Commission. Admission is free. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students ,of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame,' Ind. 46556. Second class postage 
paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

should be taken in connection with personal property." 
It was also reported that five cases of breaking entering oc­curred during the semester vacation. Two of these incidents were reported in Fisher, two in Dillon and one in Keenan. Three of the thefts were accomplished with the use of pass keps. So far a tape recorder, a television set, some hi-fi speakers and some stereo set receivers are the only things reported missing. 


community activism. As its first project of the 1971 fall semester the Institute hopes to concentrate on the problem of pollution in and around South Bend. 
The present membership drive is part of a re-organization move to involve both St. Mary's and Notre Dame. Besides the com­pletion of the thirteen man commission, the organization is attempting to enlist the help of other interested members of both communities. 
Over the past two years the Institute has spent nearly !25,000 of an original $30,000 Ford 
F d 
oun ation Grant on projects in Appalachia, New Mexico and individual studies in the South­
western Univer States. 
Institute members accepting accplications are: Joe Brehler Dave Pais, Bruce Bower' Channing Brackley, and faculty members Fr. Thomas E. Chambers and Professor John W. Houck. 
POSITIONS ARE OPEN NOW ON THE OBSERVER NIGHT STAFFS If interested call the OBSERVER 
Especially Needed: HEADLINERS (FEMALE?) 
Have the visionofthe oneness oflife. 
TRY SLEEPING ON THIS! 

Straw, stuffing, steel coils -gone for­ever with the revolutionary LOVESLEEP WATERBED! Invented by scientists and recommended by leading doctors, the 
LOVESLEEP WATERBED uses nature's finest cushion: water. 
LOVESLEEP cradles your every move­ment, molds itself to your body contours -yet gives perfect orthopedic support. Blood circulation is improved, pressure points are eliminated. You sleep 5 hours 
, instead of 8 yet awake more fresh than 
ever. Great for insomniacs, morning back­
aches. Fantastic for muscle-sore athletes -overworked students. Sensational for lovers! Loving on a LOVESLEEP is like nothing you've ever experienced. 
The LOVESLEEPINATERBED is made 
from strong, ultrasonically sealed, heavy duty vinyl. Materials and workmanship are guaranteed for five years. LOVE­SLEEP, pioneer manufacturers of Water­beds, guarantees your satisfaction or money refunded. 
MAIL ORDER SPECIAL SINGLE 3'3"x7' $39.95 o FULL 4'6"x7' ........ $49.95 0 QUEEN 5'x7' $49.95 0 KING 6'x7' .......... $54.95 o 
Free Y," Polycovers included. Post Paid. 
Send me your free brochure o 
Send check or money order to: 
LOVESLEEP WATERBEDS Division of Lightrays, Inc. 3727 Walnut St., Phila., Pa. 19104. 
Name .................... . Address .................. . City ......... State ... Zip .. . 
Beyond all the magnificence of her temples and tombs and monuments. Beyond all the brilliance of her festivals and feasts and holy days. 
Beyond all the beauty of her mountains and valleys and cities. Beyond all this, and more, lies the true vision of India. You will find it within the spirit of the People. For they are the exemplification of the total oneness of life·experience. From the seeker of truth and the prince of wisdom. To the scholar and the doctor. To the fisherman and the farmer. The People of India are the soul of India. 
Let us help you to understand the motivation and the meaning behind her culture and architectural masterpieces, her forgotten crafts and magnificent works of art. 
Let us help you get acquainted with her in a way so few have come to know. 
We have the means, like our "Meet the People Program," reduced student~ rate travel fares (at least half the regular fare on rail, bus, and certain domestic flights), youth hostels and holiday camps (less than $1 a day), introductions to our college and university students, and more. 
For more information, see your Travel Agent or contact us, The Government of India Tourist Office, by mailing the coupon to the address closest you. New York: 19 E. 49th St., Chicago: 201 North Michigan Ave.,San Francisco: 685 Market St. Offices also in Canada and Mexico. 
The vision of the oneness of life. A gift from India. Please send me your free 52~page brochure telling me all about India. Name________________________________________________________________ 
Address____________________________ City___________________________________State______Zip·-----­
SeeIndia.It~ anotherworld. 
•.. 7 

Page 4 Thursday, March 25, 1971
TilE 
Viets end Laos operation; Laird praises campaign 
· d
1

SAIGON CUPI) -The South VI~tnamese supp Y an troop Vl.etnamese operati'on in Laos bmldup that could have been
d' t d t s · t lr
ended Wednesday but military Irec e a mgon roops pu mg
· · · out of Laos or against South 
sourc~s sdatid 2.000hSaigon marmehs Vietndm itself. remame o watc over approac Th L . th 
routes to the South Vietnamese e aos campmgn was e border. Border defenses were center of contr~versy and debate 
· · as the operatiOn ended Both
fortified as U.S. planes attacked .d 1 . d dh 
advancing Communist tanks. ~~lie~. c aime success an uge
1

Waves of other U.S. jets at-Igures. . tacked supply depots and troop I?efen~e Secretary_ Melvm concentrations in North Vietnam Laird smd the South VIetn~mese Sunday an_d Monday, military ta~k f~rce::Achie':'ed it~ pnmary sources said, as well as Com-ob]e~tlVe of ~Isruptmg Com­munist missile sites. About 200 mumst supply hnes m Laos but fighter bombers and B52s took he also said, in ,? Washington part in the raids 15 miles north of s~a~ement, th~t . tremend~~sly the Demilitarized Zone that VICious a_nd VIOlent attacks. by separates North and South Commumst troops forced It to 
Vietnam. end earlr . 
The U.S. command had an-The Viet Cong said the Com­nounced raids onlv as "orotective munists in. Laos had "smashed" reaction strikes" against SAM the offensive after 45 days of m1ssile sites in North Vietnam. "sustained, fierce figh~ing.". 
But the sources said primary U.S. headq~arters m Saigon target of the raids was a North saij Amencan warplanes 

Clothes and things Men's Boutique 
"On the Mall"-McKinley Town & Country Shopping Center-Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 259­
7335 

destroyed one Soviet build North
Vietnamese tank and damaged t th . . ·d· 1 H' h 
wo o ers m ra1 :, a ong 1g ­
9 · I t ·1 f th 
way m ~aos wo mi es rom · e 
border outpost of Lao Bac. Three other tanks were reporteddestroyed Tuesday. 
Th 2 000 S th v· t 
e • ou Ie namese
marines <till in Laos military 
sources s~;id wer~ m~nning an outpost call~d "Hong Pha" or "Hotel" two miles from the border and two miles south of highway 91, a route which had served as the axis for the of­
fensive 
"Hot~l will remain an outpost because it is the highest point in that general area," one military source said. The base provides a commanding view of routes North Vietnamese units could use for an attack against positions in the northwest corner of South Vietnam. 
It appeared that South Viet­
namese  commanders  were  
preparing  for  such  an  even­ 
tuality.  

New fortifications were built Tuesday for Khe Sanh. which had served as the main U.S. support base for the offensive, and for a hilltop base called Ham Nghi, five miles closer to the Laotian border. Field reports said the western defenses of Ham Nghi were tightened and a third line of barbed wire strung around the position. 
Khe Sanh came under Com­munist rocket and mortar attack Wednesday for the ninth con­secutive day. Field report said 82 shells were fired without causing damage or casualties. 
Saigon communiques in claiming success for the Laos operation, reported 13, 672 







Trust love. 
~ 

From one beer lover to another. 
THE STROH QREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226 
.·..~ 

LAOS··-S. VIETNAM BORDER: Long line of ARVN soldiers crosses border into their homeland following six-week incursion into Laos. American troops began a pullout Wednesday from Khe Sanh headquarters of U.S. forces supporting the Vietnamese ]Laotian operation. ( UPI TELEPHOTO> 
pipeline.

Communists killed and 166 taken The Saigon reports said 1,145prisoner. It said U.S. and South South Vietnamese were killed,Vietnamese forces destroyed 4,199 wounded, and 233 listed as more than 110 tanks; several missing in action. U.S. casualtiesthousand trucks, 1.3 million liters were placed at more than 60 menof gasoline, 176,264 tons of killed and 70 wounded inmunitions, 1,000 tons of rice and helicopter crashes. 
more than 7,000 yards of fuel 

Sophs set Festival 
The fifth annual University of Notre Dame Sophomore Literary Festival, set for March 28-April1, will feature several con­temporary writers, some already well known and others, as is the custom of the festival, on their way to public recognition. 
Among them are Pulitzer Prize winning playwright Charles Gordone; playwright Tom Stoppard, who has won Tony and New York Critics' awards; novelist John Hawkes, and authoers Leonard Michaels and Richard Gilman. 
"To Be Young, Gifted and Black," a play recounting, in her own words, the life of Lorraine Hansberry, the first woman and only black ever to win the New York Drama Critics' Circle Award for "A Raisin in the Sun," will be presented. She died in 1965 at the age of 34. 
Stoppard, a journalist turned playwright, wrote "Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead." 
Born in Czechoslovakia in 1937, he lived in Singapore and India before joining the news staff of a Bristol, England, newspaper in 1954. His play, "If You're Glad, I'll Be Frank and Albert's Bridge," won the 1968 Prix Italia for radio drama, and his latest play, "The Real Inspector Hound," is scheduled for a New York opening this year. 
Hawkes, a professor of English and writing at Brown University, has served on the faculty of Harvard University and has been playwright-in-residence at the San Francisco Actors' Workshop under a Ford Foundatign FEllowship. "Second Skin," a novel by Hawkes, was written during a 1964 sabbatical spent on ths island of Granada in the West Indies. Other novels authored by Hawkes include "The Lime Twig," "The Goose on the Grave," "The Cannibal," and "The Beetle Leg." His short fiction was published. 

ND seniors given graduate awards 
Two Notre Dame seniors have been a warded Danforth Graduate Fellowships for ad­vanced study for the Ph. D. degree. The awards provide tuition and living expenses for up to four years of study in preparation for a career in college teaching. 
!';otre Dame recipients are 
European Student Travel $245 Round Trip 

Large selection of dates -study tours and language courses -year round student service 
Join National Union of Students, 1 nc. now for full benefits -write or call for full information and lnochUJ•e. 
Carrpus Rep required: Applicants for this financially rewardong position should mark envelop "Programme Co-ordinator." All interested write to: 
Nation~! Union of Students Travel Service, Inc. Suite 91J !59 W. 33rd St. New York, New York 10001 Pt10ne: (21::>) ~65-1732 
(212) 565-4199 Telex: 421437 

Offices in N.Y., London, Dublin, Paris 

Steve Brion 
John G. Hessler from Green­sburg, Ind., and Steven J. Brion, Lindenhurst, N.Y. who is this year's Scholastic editor. Both are College of Arts and letters students majoring in English. 
More than 1,800 college seniors througnout the United States competed for 107 fellowships awarded this year by the Dan­forth Foundation of St. Louis. The selection of winners by a national panel of educators is based on the evident intellectural power of the candidate, and his commitment to humane values and their place in higher education . 


Page 5 ., Thursday, March 25, 1971 THB 0~~~----------~;----------.1----­
Senate votes down SST funds 


\ 

WASHINGTON: Sen. William Proxmire <D-Wise.), leading op­ponent of the supersonic transport plane, holds a paper airplane supplied by the photographer, after Wednesday's decision of the Senate to uphold the house decision to deny the 134 million dollar-s President Nixon needed to keep the controversial project alive. The roll call vote was 51 to 46. ( UPI TELEPHOTO) 
Army jurors deliberate Calley court martial 
FT. BENNING, Ga. (UPI} ­Deliberations in thz My Lai court martial of Lt. William Calley, Jr. dragged through their eighth day Wednesday and thz military judge, nettled by defense criticism, praised the jurors for their painstaking but thankless efforts. 
"They'll be damned if they do and damned if they don't" con­vict Calley, said Col. Reid W. Kennedy. 
' If these jurors acquit, there are bound to be accusations of whitewash. If they convict, there will be accusations the other way." 
The six officer jury panel heard a read back of testimony from two more witnesses Wednesday and appeared to be moving more quickly toward a verdict, which some court observers believe could come by the weekend. 
Calley is charged with the murder of 102 South Vietnamese civilians during an American infantry sweep through the village of My Lai on March 16, 1968. If convicted, he cokld be put to death. 
The readback testimony which the jury heard Wednesday, tha of Sidney Kye and Daniel Hill, made it apparent the panel had moved on to thz second of four specifications which detail the charges against Calley. 
Specification two alleges that Calley and members of the platoon he led at My Lai rounded up at least 70 villagers in a ditch and opened fire on them at point blank rane. Kye, who was called by the prosecution, testified he saw the defendant fire into the ditch. 
S·U· Crypt 

Tapes Now on Stock $4.95 
Emerson Lake, Palmer Janis Joplin-Pearl Elton John-Tumbleweed Conn. Jeff. Airplane-Worst Cat Stevens-Tea for Tillerman Jimi Hendrix-Cry of Love­Records Now On Stock Woodstock II Elton John-Friends Kate Taylor-Sister Kate Dave Crosby 
Below Huddle 12·:30-4:00 

Hill, a helicopter crew chief, gave a deposition in which he saij that while flying over My Lai before the infantry sweep he saw bodies in the ditch. The icference was that thz villagers were killed by artilery or aerial gunship fire before .. Calley and his men arrived. 
The first specification accused 
Calley of killing 30 other villagers 
at the junction of two trails in the 
vi111age and the laut two charge 
him with the deaths of two in­
dividuals -a man dressed as a 
monk, and an infant. 
With specifications one and two 
out of the way, the jury would 
have dealtt with 100 of the 102 
deaths with which the 27 year old 
Calley iu charged. The panel 
heard a read back of testimony 
from 10 other witnesses during its 
apparent deliberation of the firut 
specirication. 

Kennedy spoke up for the jury after the defense attorney George Latimer accused the jurors nf "wining and dining" at the1 · · leisure while a man's life hung il. 
thz balance. 
The judge said the cokrt 
martial system has come under 
attack in recent years from 
critics who charge that military 
juries do not fully consider the 
facts before them. He said the 
Calley jury should "spend as 
much time as necessarq to fully 
evaluatttthe case." 

For those interested or considering marriage within the next year, The· Office of Campus Ministry announces the 1971 Marriage Institute 

THEME: Personal Growth in Marriage 
1st conference Mr. and Mrs. John Ragsdale Growth as experienced before the arrival of children Sunday, March 28, 3:30p.m. Engineering Auditorium 
2nd conference Mr. and Mrs. Robert Meagher Growth as experienced through the presence of children Sunday, April 4, 8:00 p.m.,Library Auditorium 
3rd coference Mr. and Mrs. Gene Guissler Personal growth as seen after the children have left home Sunday, April 18, 3:30p.m., Library Auditorium 
4th conference Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. The Celebration of the Growth of Love in Marriage Sunday, April 25, 8:00p.m.,Library Auditorium 
Certificates of attendence at a Pre-Cana Conference (a requirement for marriage in most ~ .S. dioceses) will· _be given to those who attend the Institut~. For further m­formation call the Director of the Institute, Rev. Edgar Whelan, C.S.C. 
WASHINt:rTON <UPI> -The Senate voted Wednesday to bar any more federal spending ~n development of the supersomc transport plane (SSTl. 
The decision signaled the end of government financing of research for the 1800 miles an hour airplane as of March 30 and likely for good.
The House laut week refused to allow any more federal funds for th SST. 
The vote in the Senate was 51~ 

46. Senators Birch Bayh, Everett Jordan, and Karl Mundt were absent, while Vance Hartke voted to stop the SST. 
The results of the vote struck hardest in the state of Washington.
Boeing Co. officials said Wednesday thzy would lay off 7000 workers "as soon as possible" because of the Senate vote against the SST program. 
The layoffs, in terms of mmst jobs lost at one time, 'will be the most severe in the aerospace firm since the end of Wrodl War II. 
"We have no direct or reliable information that the White House has othzr funding plans," said Lowell Mickelwait, vice president for industrial and public relations. "We have no optimism that the SST program will continue." 
Speaking somberly below the shadow of the giant SST mockup in the Boeing plant, Mickelwait said the 7000 layoffs representd 4500 employees working directly rm the SST and another 2500 who would feel a seconday impzct. 
He said he expected to get formal nooice of termination of the SST project. by Thursday. When it is received, all SST development will be halted. 
Mickelwait said Boeing em­ploymdnt inthe Seattle area probably would drop from 42,200 persons now to 29,000 by the end of 1971. In addition to SST jobs, other Boeing divisions have continued to reduce work forces. Employment in the area reachsd a peak of more than 100,000 in 1968. 
Work stoppage on the SST also means a loss of about 1500 jobs at General Electric's jet engine facility in Evendale, Ohio, and 500 jobs at Republic Aviation's plant at Farmingdale, N.Y., 


•

SEATTLE: Four worried looking Boeing employees peer from the cockpit of the SST mockup and listen as ~ompany spokesmen an­nounce the senate's Wednesday vote against the program. Their faces reflest some of the feelings they must have as company officials state that 7,000 employees will have to be laid off. As soon as official notice of the termination of the project is recieved all SST development will be halted. <UPI TELEP~OTO) 
Bobby Seale murder 


trial continues 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. (UPI) ­An alleged police informer squirmed and tossed when doused with scalding water before he was shot to death, a prosecution witness testified Wednesday at Black Panther leader Bobby G. Seale's murder conspiracy trial. 
The witness, Warren Kimbro, 36, a former Black Panther, told how Alex H.ackley, 24, was tor­tured in 1969 under the super­vision of a Panther enforcer in the basement of Kimbro's apartment that also was a Panther headquarters. 
"He squirmed, he tossed, and tried to turn from the hot water, after several pots of hot water were poured on him, he said he would not talk ... "said Kimbro. 
Kimbro has said he shot Rackley, a Panther based in New York's Harlem district, in Middlefield marsh following the water scalding. State's attorney Arnold Markle contends Seale gave orders to kill Rackley. 
Kimbro placed Seale.s codefendant, Mrs. Ericka Huggins, 23, in the same apart­ment basement where Rackley was scalded. He was the second ­witness to do so. 
Defense lawyer David Rosen asked Kimbro if he ever saw Seale there at any time. "Not that I can recall," Kimbro replied. 
Kimbro identified the enforcer who supervised the water torture as George Sams Jr., 24, who like Kimbro, has pleaded guilty to second degree murder in Rackley's death, May 21, 1969. Both face life terms. 
Kimbro said he was promised nothing except no opposition to early parole for his testimony against fellow Panther Lonnie McLucas, 25, who was convicted of firing a second bullet into Rackley's body, and is now serving a 12 to 15 year term. 
designed by Donald Claflin. Rings start at $295. 


DFFANY&CO. 
CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 
Design Copyrighted 1971, T.& Co. 
Thursday, March 25, 1971
Page 6 
THE OBSERVER. 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
GlenS. Corso, Editor-in--Chief 
Winter is icummen in, Lhude sing Goddamm, Raineth drop and staineth slop And how the wind doth ramm! Sing: Goddamm. 
--Ezra Pound 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3,1966 NOTRE DAME,INDIANA 


Thank God! 
The decision of the Trustees to merge Notre Dame with St. Mary's was 
superb. The two bodies1 seemingly casting aside their acq_uired aura of 
slow moving conservatism, moved the two institutions m a direction which will benefit both in the years to come. 
Also surprising, and esrecially gratifying, is the trustees' an­
nouncement that merger wil be completed by the 1974-75 school year. It 
would have been all too easy for them to merely state that the decision 
should be executed wilh all deliberate speed, or some such vague time limit. 
The alumni attitude was somewhat unusual. Their reluctant sanction of the co-education plans proves the case of those who claimed the alumni 
wouldn't create opposition, since they also remember their dateless years here. 
The entire question of St. Mary's identity seems to have gone the way of "Free Coinage of Silver" and other monumental issues. Having the words "St. Mary's College" on the women's diplomas seems to be a small 
price to pay in order to avoid needless duplication. 

The Trustees weren't specific, and for a good reason. Two days is a 
very short time and the decision to merge was more than enough to oc­cupy their time. 
The most important specific issue which was glossed over by the Trustees, was the co-educational residences on both campuses. Such a move, as proven by various reports, could have taken place by Sep­tember of this year. ~orne have claimed that not enou~h Notre Dame students were interested in livin~ at St. Mary's While possibly true, unless given actual opportunity, opimons on the willingness of Notre Dame students to do so can be safely comJ,>ared to mindless ~peculation on how the country would have been if Wilham Jennings Bryan had been elected 
president · The transition period will be a difficult one. The greatest problems will 
arise m the merger of the academic departments, where there are signsthat some inflated faculty egos will hinder cooperation. 
There will most likely be problems in the two administrations also, as 
persons will have to adjust to new roles and possibly diminished status or greatly increased responsibilities.The three year time period should be enou~h to insure that such dif­
ficulties will not become catastrophic. The basic decision to merge has been made with no visible rancor, or hystiercs, we believe the rest of the 
community should respond in a similar fashion. · 
... Almost 

The Observer's March lOth editorial which dealt with the ad­ministration's response to the black students' demands contains a sen­tence which should be clarified. We stated taht "perhaps the most 
distressing part of thz letter is Burtchaell's revelation that the University 
spent only $40,000 for scholarships."The $40,000 is 114 of the funds received from the 1970 Cotton Bowl. The 
entire $160,000 was divided into four parts to insure incoming black 
freshmen financial aid for their entire acaaemic carr~et. 
*************************************************** 
ISSUE STAFF 

Night Editor: Jerry Lutkus NEWS STAFF 
Layout: Joe Abel, Dan Barret, Ken KampmanNews Editor: Ed Ellis 
Typists: Sue Banker, Scott Braley ~ Managing Editor: Don Ruane 
Headlines Jim Roe Editorial Page: T.C. Treanor' 

Verityper: Bill ClemencyFeatures Page: Rick Smith 
Ass't.News Editor: Janet Cullen Sports Page: Terry Shields 
And Special Guest Stars: John Abowd, Jim McDermott 
*************************************************** 

NO TIME To 85 CHOOS&'I 
Tim MacCarry 

--~-­

On Female Liberation 
The following was Tim McCarry's last column for the Observer. 
This piece is not intended to speak to women about their 
oppression, nor to detail the origins and realities of male supremacy 
as understood in anthropology, history and political economy. 
Rather, it is to commemorate Sunday, March 8-lnternational 
Women's Day-a good time to recall the long history of women's 
struggle against inferior status, and to begin to reverse the failure of 
"radicals" at Notre' Dame to consistently fight against male 
supremacy. Nor should it make the men to whom it is addressed 
think that what the women's movement itself says shouldn't be 
listened to. or printed in the Observer. 
Briefly, the problem stems from an economic division dating from 
the origins of private property and class distinctions. Women­
particularly blacks-are underpaid: in 1965 white and black men 
averaged $6,375 and $4,000 in earnings, while white and black 
women averaged $3,744 and $2,642 respectively. Women form a 
tluiu, relatively unskilled surplus labor pool which is used in 
competition with unionized workers; these patterns have intensified 
in postwar years, with substantial drops in relative income for 
women. Finally, they provide unpaid domestic labor and 
child-rearing services at a cost far less than that of equivalent hired 
labor. 
New techniques of consumer exploitation have hit women in particular: a leading advertising "motivator" has written, "Properly manipulated ... American housewives can he given the sense of identity, purpose, creativity, the self-realization, even the sexual joy they lack -by the buying of things ... In a free enterprise economy we have to develop the need for new products ... The manufacturer wants her back into the kitchen-and we show him how to do it... " 
American women are told that their fulfillment through housework, 
children, and sexual-emotional gratification of their husbands is 
sufficient; they should vicariously identify with his career, since he is 
organically suited for "worldly affairs" as she is r.ot. This ideology of 
male supremacy was best developed in its modern form in Hitler's 
1930's campaign for "Kinder, Kuche, Kirche" (children, kitchen, 
church) for women, along with racism, fascism, and national 
chauvinism. 
Notre Dame "men" exemplify this. An hour in a dormitory will 
show how women are seen as objects· as "chicks" or broads 
or----(removed by the editor). A ~lance at the pa~er or bulletin 
b~ards shows the same in movi~ advertising. A tnp to the library, a 
m1xer, or even a "freak" party reveals the dehumanizing games being 
played in the eternal competition for sex on one side, and marriage 
on the other. Finally, a sensitive look at sports, religious life, and 
campus politics (including the liberals) will discern elements of the 
cult of exaggerated masculinity which empties men of organic worth 
as well as women. One of the most absured products of machismo is thefear of being called a "fag" as and the pooular jokes and stories 
about homosexuality, as if one's "manhood" had to be continually 
JUstified against one's sexual insecurity. 
Notre Dame, Inc., exhibits the usual pattern in its higher-level employment: female clerical workers serve male managers and faculty. The education it sells is geared to success in a class which is overwhelmingly white and male-dominated; hence the racism and male chauvinism of its admissions patterns. The problem is complicated by the fact that it is in the short-run advantage of the woman who comes to St. Mary's looking for an N.D. husband to oppose a change in the ratio. 
But all this· leaves out the most important consideration: the needs and aspirations of the working population of America including the need to end the divisions of race and sex which weake~ them; and particularly of the average young woman faced with a choice of second-rate employment or household subservience including her need for higher education. Any Notre Dame man wh~ thinks of himself. as on the side of social progress, or as concerned about the honesty of his personal relationships had better start reia ting to this,and support the demands made upon their university by the women's movement. 

Thursday, March 25, 1971 
Page 7 


Yes, Spring has come; This morning a nameless hill Is shrouded in mist. 

Shoko Takashima (1901-? ) ; courtesy IShikav.ejima-Harima Ind. Co., Ltd., Tokyo 

--....._ 
Page 8 Thursday, March 25, 1971
THE OBSERVER 

Sr. Alma announces merger plan 
Continued froni page I 
All faculty rank and tenure will be honored by the university, who will try to place as many of the St. Mary's employees as possible. The institution will also honor fringe benefits and seniority. 
Regarding the presidential search committee, the Boards recommended that St. Mary's continue to search for someone to head the ·college during the in­terim period. 
"It may be someone from out faculty or some outsider who will be on leave from another university," ·disclosed the college's acting president whose one-year contract expires in July. 

Planning for the complete merger, St. Mary's will add 250 more freshmen to its class in 1972 and will continue to add the same number to each freshman class until there are at least 2,000 women on the campus. 
Between now and April. a 
Editor: 

In recent editions of the Ob­server, the issue of the "no­knock" rule seemed to me to have a most interesting 
·development. The correspon­dence between Dave Krashna, Mark Winings, and Frs. Burt­chaell and Riehle seemed to have 
• a flavor of typical Notre Dame self-abuse. The enragement of Dave and Mark. over "no­knocking" was in every sense a reasonable and just reaction ­and should be on the part of every student. But then again as Fr. Burtchaell puts it, "the judicial opinions in ths United States have tended, I believe, to support Fr. 
Riehle in this matter, at least in


,..-------, 
t 
Crewing affords one the 
opportunity to earn reasonable ' fsums while engaged in pleasant , 
fou~~oraa~~i,~t\ype a 1 page t 'resume following as closely as A 'possible the form shown below. ' Aln April your resume will be I 'edited, printed and sent to 
l 
t
fapproximately 1500-2500' &(depending on area) large craft ~ 'owners. I RESUME FORM-(1) name,' address (home and school), : phone number, age; (2) relevant ' work.or recreational expcri"ence; ' 
' 
f(3) dates available and area(s); ' 

(4) 2 or more students wishing ' fto work together, state name of ' ,o_ther parties; (5) other informa-f h1on. A Sen~ your resu~e with Hi f 'processing fee to: 'f American Yachting Association' committee consisting of the two chairmen of the boards of trustees, the two presidents, and four other members of the board will draw up a single statement which will function as a written contract for the merger, to be initiated in September, 1971. 
All negotiations will be completed by the next meetings of the board (April 24 for the St. Mary's board and early May for the N.D.) 
"These two proud institutions 
are going to have to give and take 
with a virtuous pride," com­
mented Sr. Alma. ''Some people 
think that all of the give is going 
to be an the St. Mary's end, but 
they are mistaken. It is only by a give and take process at both ends that the two institutions are going to grow close and expand their educational opportunities." Disclosing the factors that were decisive in bringing the two schools to a merger, she cited the attainment of the best possible education for students, five, ten, 
even twenty years from the 
pres<·n:. the student bodies, and 
financE's. 
Sister felt that the Carnegie 
Commission on Higher Education 
report, published last winter, 
helped to change the Board of 
Trustees thinking from a 
theoretical .realm to a more 
realistic one. 
Contributing to the financial difficulty, she stated,may be the . decline in applications for 
enrollment at both institutions. "It will be interesting to see," she said, "whether the merger will increase applications or whether we can attribute the decline to the national financial situation and the fact that less young people seem anxious to go to college." 
At the St. Mary's trustees' meeting March 13, the Board also studied the Park-Marhew report and a financial report stating the finances needed to maintain the coexchange program. 
During the meeting, Fr. Hesburgh, Notre Dame president, spoke to the St. 'Mary's board "in a sincere and open manner," according to the president. Warning them to look ca{"efully at the present and the future of the college, the Notre Dame president's remarks centered on a closer cooperation between the two schools. 
Hesburgh said that if St... Mary's did not decide to cooperate with more interaction, Notre Dame would probably bring in 250 girls in 1972 and continue to add 250 girls each year until they attained a student body of 1,000 -1,500 women. 
Stressing that Hesburgh was not trying to force the trustees to a decision, Sister related that the Board unanimously endorsed a merger with Noore Dame and oroceeded to draft a position paper to present at the joint Boards' meeting. 
After conferring separately with Drs. Rosemary Park and Louis Mayhew, who last year were drafted by both schools to 


private universities." 

The illustration of Dave Krashna melting the glacier with the blow torch of confrontatiou, that glacier which prevents his progress on the road to "a just, happy, Christian Notre Dame" <March 9 issue) gives the entire situation the ringside insight of the Frazier-Ali fight. The first round, the challenge of the en-. cumbants <Dave and Mark) ­These men will dare to face the consequences of having "women" in their room after hours. Perhaps their purpose was to prove how inadequate the administration is in enforcing ilw own policy. On thz other hand, thf administration just might en· 
force it and we will have two 
sainted martyrs. 

Round two -Fr. Burtchaell tells us how well the Observer can make educated guesses. He then proceeds to pummel Daveand Mark not only on the grounds of legality but he neatly throws in the Notre Dame inability to violate parietals even if he, wanted to (for lack of broads). It seems round two goes to Fr~ Burtehaell -for not only did he daze and amaze his opponents but he also managed to get a little sand in the baby blue eyes of our heroes Dave and Mark. 
Round three -(perhaps final) ­Fr. Riehle comes in and takes over where Fr. Burtchaell left 

lvACHTING . 
I 


DANCE TONIGHT tSUMMER • t 
1

IPOSITIONS 
I 
tThe American Yachting Associa-' 

LaFortune Student Center
f Lion with listings on the East ' Coast, West Coast, Gulf Area, ' 

1
land the Great Lakes is soliciting ' 'for summer crew applicants. ' 

8-12 Music by SYMBOL 
' Positions are available for ' 'experienced as well as inexperi-f 

Admission :$1.00
'enced male and female college ' fstudents and graduates. Experi-' 

1 o'clocks for SMC frosh 
'ence in cooking and child care ' 'may be particularly helpful. ' Sponsored by ND-SMC Freshman Class 

off. He indicated that 

enforcement of Univdrsity policy is the responsibility of the students, staff, and Hall Council. He then proceeded to place the resonsibility for the enforcement of their violation upon Mark and Dave. Sorry Mark and Dave-you won but you lost! 
. The concept of "private university" as mentioned in Fr. Burtchaell's letter, implies that the administration has the power to enforce its policies in the manner suited to its needs. But it is logical progression, that if the students paid to get in and it's their money that makes up so much of the budget, they deserve more freedom and a voice in the University policies (than in state institutions l. Fortunately for us, the administration is a liberal one and gives us the power to in­

terpret policy and enforce it as we see fit. The redundancy of Dava and Mark's approjch was evident to hoth Frs. Burtchaell and Riehle but obviously not to Dave and Mark. 
What I'm trying to say is this: Th•~ Student Senate is considered a sandbox by many people. Perhaps this metaphor can be e,·tended to include the entire st 1dent bodx. The University has t~ • ability to act as a separate er. · ity, therefore it is not real -it a fipment of our imagination -but believe me it is not an easy place to live in. Stagnant waters do not tend to cleanse one's body. What 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---------------------------~ 
Applications tor the following cabl1r.et positions are available In the Student Government office this week: 
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS 
HUWAN AFFAIRS HALL LIFE PUBLIC RELATIONS OMBUDSMAN 
' Suite 503, 8730 Sunset Blvd. ' A 1• t• h 1..1 be 
' Los Angeles, California 90069 ' pp ICa lOftS s OUIU sent to 0 n ar 'Your resume must be received ' Morrissey, no later than Thursidav, March 25. 
:nolaterthan April15,1971~ ' ~~ 
' ' 1Ca11 3626 for joh de~·a·ript ion\._--------•~----------------------------·-------------------------------------------_: 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
COMMUNITY RELATIONS 
-' 
~OFF-CAMPUS 

JUDICIAL COOR. J h 8 Jteft 354
' 

make a. feasihility study on coeducatiOn the two boards voted for ':lerger of the two schools in Florida last weekend. 
"It was amazing the similarity between the two position papers of the Boards of Trustees," .. Sister statd. "They were very similar in general outlook, although there are still some specifics to be negotiated." 
Before answering questions from the floor, she concluded by saying,' "I am looking upon the unification in an optimistic manner. It is not only a historic precedent, but also possibly a pattern for all Catholic higher education in the country." 
"Catholic education is in a sad state of affairs,". she added. "Its future may be m two or three centers _in the country." . 
Questioned on the effectiveness of the recent tuition hike, the acting president stated lthat it: would remain because Notre Dame's tuition also will be boosted n September. 
is needed is change, maybe it's coeducation, maybe it is a new government, may it is just a nice long vacation. The frustration of Dave and Mark in coping with the administration is indicayive of the frustration felthby everyone here on campus -maybe it cac best b~ diagnosed as a good education accompanied by emasculation <so Dave and Mark, even if they had "females" in their rooms, they couldn't hjave done anything). Perhaps this whole letter is a product of an apathetic student -perhaps I should spend my time in educational endeavors such as making educated guesses for the Observer. 
To conclude, I would like to congratulate Frs. Burtcaehll and Riehle for defeating Mark and Dave by a TKO. Maybe Noore Dame's next confrontation can be a little more meaningful than the Frazier-Ali fight. 
Sincerely, 
BiW. Wozniak 
309 St. Ed's 
Sources Uninformed 

Editor: 
In the March 10, 1971 edition of the Observer you reported that the Admission Department Head had been replaced. I, of course, take no issue with the report which was obviously true. Neith­zr do I take issue with thz right of the University administration to replace the Director of Ad­mission. I do take issue with paragraph no. 3 beginning with "Informed sources stated etc." because I do not think that th~ facts are true. 
I am an elected member of the University Committee on Ad­missions and have sat on that committee since Dr. Grande assumed office in July 1969. The members of that committee consider themselves ':informed sources" concerning admission matters. I simply wish to point out that, to the best of my knowledge, there was no "wave of clerical tie-up" and no "lack of rapport between Dr. Grande and minority group applicants." Dr. Grande's vita, which you in­cluded in the article, admirably pointed out his background for the job both as an administrator and an educator. 
Sincerely yours, 
Robert J. Waddick 
Assistant Dean 
Page 9

_T_h_u_rs_d_a_y,_M__ar_c_h_~_._1_~_1_______________________________~ lNJF~ 
Hesburgh announces professorships 
Notre Dame, Ind. --The University of Notre Dame has established four named professorships, one in each of tis undergraduate colleges. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame's president, said occupants of the endowed chairs will be determined later in a procedure involving the departments, deans and the University's top-ranking academic administrators. 
The chairs are the George and Winifred Clark Chair of Chemistry, the Frank M. Freimann Chair of Electrical Engineering, the John Cardinal O'Hara Chair of Philosophy, and the C.R. Smith Chair of Business Administration. 
The George and Winifred Clark Chair of Chemistry grew out of a fund for distinguished professors established in 1954 by Mr. and Mrs. George C. Clark and a bequest from the estate of Clark, who headed the George C. Clark Metal Last Company in Mishawaka until his death in 1960. Mrs. Clark now lives in Beverly Hills, California, and a nephew, George W. Weber, a 1951 Notre Dame alumnus is president of the Mishawaka company. 
The Frank M. Freimann Chair is named for tne late chairman and president of the Magnavox Company who also served on the University's Advisory Council for Science and Engineering. A pioneer in the electronics in­dustry, Freimann was chief executive officer of Magnavox for 18 years until his death in 1968. Among his numerous benefactions to Notre Dame was a $500,000 gift tow~rd the con­struction of the Memorial Library in 1962. 
The John Cardinal O'Hara Chair honors the twelfth president of Notre Dame, who served between 1934 and 1940. Its endowment derives from a fund invested in 1931 on behalf of the University by Bernard E. Smith, a close friend of both Father O'Hara dn of Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell, who preceded Father O'Hara in the presidency. Until two years ago when the fund was returned to the University, it was managed by Smith, who died in 1961, and his son, Bernard, Jr., a member of the New York City brokerage firm of LaMorte, Maloney & Company. 
The C.R. Smith Chair of business administration is an endowed professorship in the College of Business Ad­ministration established by 

Action refused by SMC Task Force 
At the initial meeting of a special Task Force empowered by the Saint Mary's College Councils to make an in-depth study of the Black Students Proposal of March 4, a majority of the committee members refused to take action as a committee, 
In response to the formal charge to the Task Force by Sister M. Alma Peter, acting president, to make serious recommendations to the College Councils in answer to he total Proposal, Task Force members replied: 
"Until the definite budget is given in a number of dollars, we the undersigned do not feel there is a need for this committee." The reply was signed by all but two two of the Task Force members present. 
In meeting with the Task Force, Sister Alma had asked the members to examinethe moral commitment of the whole College and to reexamine priorities at the Colege, and to make recom­mendations based on their fin­dings to the Academic Affairs Council and the Student Affairs Council by April 5. 


Fox's Extends SPECIAL PRICES 
to 
NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
rnGit Important thing in buying a dlemond 
---~......,.-. Is knowledge. It tekes an expert to know the fine Points of cut, color and quellty••• and whet gives a ~Iamond Its value. Thwe's only one way to b~y a diamond..• and that is by coming to a jewel.-you can trust. DIAMONDS $50 TO $5,000 OPEN A CONVENIENT BUDGET TODAY 

American Airlines, Inc. to honor its former board chairman. Smith, a close friend of Father Hesburgh's, also served as Secretary of Commerce under former President Lyndon B. Johnson. Smith was an executive of the airlines for some 34 years. 
"The establishment of these chairs," Father Hesburgh noterl, "is a significant way of un­derwriting continuing academic distinction at Notre Dame. I have remarked on several occasions -­and only with slight exaggeration --that my goal is to have every full professorship at Notre Dame endowed. There is no doubt in my 
t 

mind that the endowed chair is the direction faculty develop­ment must take at Notre Dame. Named professorships enable the University to honor outstanding scholarship among its own teachers and to attract scholars of the first rank to the University. 
"Toward this end, we are seeking 40 endowed chairs in our current 'Summa' capital gifts 
campaign.  Thus far,  while  the  
campaign  itself  is  ahead  of  
schedule,  our  goal is  un­ 

dersubscribed in this area, and I hope that announcing these four chairs will spur interest in this crucial vehicle for benefactions." 
t  NOTRE DAME BAND  
t  
t  
t  POPS CONCERT  
t t t  ACC March 15 8:15pm  
t  Admission free  

L---------------~ 
A REPRESENTATIVE FROM 
DEPAUL UNIVERSITY GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS.WILL BE ON THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS 
MARCH 29 TO DISCUSS MBA AND MS IN TAXATION PROGRAMS 
Interested students should contact the Placement Office for details 

THE ADVENT LOUDSPEAKER 

Audio Magazine Said of the Advent Speaker;"At twice the 
price the Advent Speaker would be a good value, but at $116 it 
is a bargain" 

AUDIO 
STORE HOURS-3-9 pr.1 MON-TH 
1-4:30 FRI & SUN I CLOSEO •S.O." 1307 E. C 


eur 

Founder 
To serve you better HERE'S JOHNNY'S will be open the following hours: 
Fri.-Sat. 11 am 2:30am 
Sun. thru Thurs. 11 am -10 pm 
2309 Edison 
Con.er of Edison and lrgnwood 


Where do you hear them? 1n a plea for help from someone who needs it? In a dialogue between students and the Establishment? In a talk session for a marriage-on-the­rocks? At a Catholic Mass conducted in an Episcopal 
Church? You'd be surprised. The sounds of love are 
everywhere -anyone can hear them. If they listen. 
The Paulists listen. But, like everything in life, the things that matter most are the hardest. 
It isn't easy being a Paulist. But then, the best things in life never are. 
If you are interested in more information about the Paulist priesthood, write to: 
Rev. Donald C. Campbell, CS.P. Vocation Director 
'Paulist,L
Patllerg 
Thursday, March 25, 1971

_P_a_ge_t_o__________________________________?JfB_O~U,IR 
Survey indicates passage of 18 year old vote 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -A proposal to grant 18 year olds the vote in all elections will likely become the 2f\t:h amendment to the Constitution' . time for 1972 elections, a UPI survey showed yesterday. 
The legislature of Massachusetts and Hawaii passed the voting bill Wed­nesday, becoming the sixth and seventh states to approve the measure in two days. 

Thirty eight states must ultimately approve the amend­ment if it is to become effective. 
A UPI survey indicated tha\ 10 other states were moving toward approval in the nextc several days: Maine, Vermont, New 

Un-iversity raises funds 
Continued from oaee 2 
as is the case with virtually all major developmental programs, some specific areas of "Summa" such as endowed professorships, were undersubscribed even though the general goal was 
exceeded. 
Almost 28,000 individual gifts were made to the program and the average contribution of Notre Dame alumni drew praise from Fr. Hesburgh 
"Sixty per cent of our alumni have graduated since 1950, yet the average gift was $966," said Hesburgh. 
He said this figure, plus the fact that almost three-fourths of the alumni contributed a total of $20.8 

million, is "indeed heartening in a day when many institutions are experiencing a period of alumni estrangement." 
Fr. Hesburgh also noted that Notre Dame's trustees gave a total of $6 million. 
Several thousand volunteers in 60 metropolitan areas with concentrations of Notre Dame alumni were involved in the campaign. 
The largest contributions came from New York City ($9.2 million), Chicago, ($8 million), and Philadelphia ($1.2 million). In terms of percentage , the Ohio area of Dayton-Springfield led the nation by achieving 400 per cent of its quota. 
Co-ex dinners to go daily 
Continued from naPe 2 
Saturday and the noon meal on 
Sundays. The evening meal hours 
are 5 to 6:30p.m. at St. Mary's. 
Hours for the Sunday noon meal 
are 11:30 to 1 p.m. at St. Mary's 
and  12  to  1:15  p.m.  at  Notre  
Dame.  
After  each  Notre  Dame  

residence hall has participated in the program, interested in­

dividuals will be given the op­portunity to obtain exchange tickets forthe remainder of the semester. 
The exchange program will continue through May 15th with the exception of April 9th and lOth. 
Individuals with questions on the program should call 6805 at Notre Dame or 4682 at St. Mary's. 

WARNING-PUBLIC LAWS IN MANY STATES MAKES IT ILLEGAL TO ENGAGE IN MANY OF THE TECHNIQUES OF LOVE SHOWN rN KAMA SUTRA. 
Plus: Strictly Adult A shocking Glimpse Into the Warped Morals of the Mod World 



~\~\-~l\\U "~\~ 

"riiv£R" "PJ\.R:i<. 

..................... STARTS FRIDAY 
MISHAWAKA AVI. AT 30TH. 
Extra! Late Shows Fri. + Sat. 


INDIANAPOLIS (UPI) Indiana will be among the early states in ratifying a con­stitutional amendment lowering the voting age to 18. 
House Speaker Otis Brown said yesterday a joint resolution containing ratification of the proposed 26th Amendment'to the 
U.S. . .. Constitution will be handed down on second reading in the House today. The legislature resumes its 1971 session today after a five day recess. 
The resolution passed the Senate on March 12 by a vote of 33-12 and went to the House where it was recommended fo; passage on March 19. 

The House also passed and sent , to thd Senate a bill that would lower the voting in Indiana to 18 effective in time for the 1972 · election when voting for president, vice president and members of Congress will be open to the 18, 19, and 20 year olds for the first time in Indiana, under a federal law and court ruling. 
amendment, UPI correspondents reported, but legislatures in several of the states were ad­journed and a vote may not come for several months. 
The issue was rated a toss up in four states: Illinois, Texas, Wisconsin, and Nebraska, and unlikely to pass in Florida, where voters have already twice soundly defeated similar propositions. 
The groundswell toward ap­proval was not simple motivated by the opportunity to grant the franchise to younger citizens. Many states sensed an ap­proaching financial crisis in election costs if forced to ad­minister a dual set of election laws and registrations. 
The Supreme Court ruled last year that. a law Congress passed lowering the voting age to 18 was valid only in federal elections. 

York, Michigan, Maryland, Arkansas, North Carolina, lin­diana, New Jersey, and Iowa. 
Five others -Conneticut, Minnesota, Delaware, Washington, and Tennessee ­
Ind. ratification termed imminent 
Agnew criticizes news media for Upub/irshing untruths I 
ST. LOUIS (UPI) -Vice President Spiro Agnew leveled a new volley of criticism at CBS television Wednesday, accusing the network of "deliberately publishing untruths" . He also attacked a Newsweek magazine report that. a new image was 
being  created  for  the  vice  
president.  
He  said  he  was  "totally  

dissatisfied with what CBS characterized as a rebuttal on the part of administration officials, including myself," to the net­work's documentary, "The Selling of the Pentagon." 
Agnew's original criticism, made last week in Boston, was broadcast by CBS Tuesday night after a re-broadcast of the documentary. The news president of CBS, Richard Sal.ant, also went on the air and said the 
charge" leveled ~y ~gnew, 
network can refute "every 

ratified the measure Tuesday, within hours after it was over­whelmingly cleared by the House of Representatives. 
Twenty three other states apl?eared likely to approve the 
piece of journalism." CAC PRESENTS 
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? 
Tonight 7:30 and 9:30 Washington Hall Admission $1.00 

NOWr PLAYING 
"'Don't Just Lay There" and "The Final Blow" 
PROOF OF A(;E ALWAYS REQUIRED 
Defense Secretary Nletvm Lair 
and Re_p. Edward Herbert, 

chairman of the Hokse Armed 
Services Committee. 

Agnew, interviewed by an· editorial panel of the St. Louis area's top news executives, said "it's rather unusual to give you the right of reubttal and allow you to decide what you're going to say in rebuttal. They edited some of my previous remarks and remarks of two other ad­ministration people and showed the ones they wanted to show." Agnew asked that he be allowed to edit his remarks. 
Agnew said, "I criticized CBS because they were deliberately publishing untruths and they wre ?eliberately cutting and pasting m documentaries, leaving a mistaken impression." 
Agnew termed the Newsweek article about his image "a sloppy He 

prefaced his remarks by saying that Newsweek is "not one of my favorite magazines." 
He said, "If you've read it you find it's on four borders because it begins by saying that to a packed house I did something in the first paragraph, and then it goes on to talk about that I subside from view. Now those two viewpoints are contradictory in themselves. 
"Image, in the final analysis is what the public will make up its mind about . . . no amount of journalistic jargon is ever going to change that." 

Badger faces 
•


suspension 

Continued from page 3 
Badger said that when he told Riehle he had used drugs, Riehle never said "implicitly or ex­plicitly" that he was there as a friend of Badger, but that the informal and casual attitude of Riehle's seemed to indicate an air of friendliness. 
"I was not aware that this admission would be used by the university in their prosecution," added Badger. 
Badger's only recourse is to appeal directly to Fr. Hesburgh which he intends to do as soon as he can arrange an appointment. 
Badger sal(:t tnat only un­dergraduate counsel was granted him, which excluded law students. "This was a denial of 
due process," he said. 
According to Badger, the University is not expected to reinstate him next fall after his being judged an "imminent 
rl::JPPPr " 
Band concert set for Fri. 
The Notre Dame concert band will present its annual spring concert at 8:15 p.m. Friday <March 26) in the Athletic and Convocation Center. The concert is open without charge to the public. 
Under the direction of Robert 

F. O'Brien, the 45-member band is presently completing a 3,200­mile tour og 10 southern states and will return to the campus on Thursday. 
Concerts include a classical overture, Broadway hits, mar­ches, popular tunes, con­
temporary  works,  solos  and  
ensembles,  Latin  American  
rhythms,  and  traditional  
favorites.  


Page 11

Thursday, March 25, 1971 
THE OBSERVER.

__________________,_______~_:.:.__,:.____~_________
~ 


by Bruce Kennedy ''I didn't intend to wrestle, but I Observer Sportswriter got involved in the program at the end of my freshman Tom Ciaccio came to Notre year,"says Tom. "I had received Came for academics. He didn't some scholarship offers from intend to be sijelined with outside some other schools, and Notre activities but wanted to work Dame was the only school I ap­toward his Arts and Letters Pre­plied to tha1 didn't offer me one. I Professional degree. decided to concentrate on my studies rather than wrestle, so I
Today, Tom Ciaccio has came here to Notre Dame."
completed his career at Notre Dame as a team captain and the But the four-time New York winning est wrestler in its history. State Catholic Champion couldn't His 46 ND wins include a 9-3 stay away from his favorite victory against Marquette in his sport. And after some knee final appearance as a Notre trouble freshman year, he made Dame wrestler Wednesday the starting lineup as a night,(March 10). sophomore. 
JIM MURRAY 
The Garbage 




Collector 
© U70, Los Angeles Times 

When Babe Ruth hit his 60 home runs, no one said, "Very nice. But I'd like to see him do it when Ed Walsh was pitching." 
When Wilt Chamberlain put in 100 points in a night, no one said, "Phooey! Back in the days of poor lighting and no backboards, he would have been lucky to get in double figures." 
When Joe Frazier won the heavyweight title, did anyone say "He wouldn't h.ave been in the top ten in bare-knuckle days." 
And, yet, the other night at the Forun, an athlete broke one of the most-hallowed records of sports and received from the crowd a sitting ovation. A few were carried away enough to yawn. Some seized the occasion to go out and get a beer. 
The record says Philip Anthony Exposito is the best hockey player in the 53-year history of the National Hockey League. Few believe it. 
The other night in rhw Doeum against the Kings, a group of ice skaters who might inadequately be described as "hapless," Phil Esposito slapped in his 60th goal of the season. This, at once, made him 
A) the highest single-season scorer in NHL annals; B) the highest single-season scoring center; and Cl the highest point-total getter (goals plus assists) in league history. 
A ticker-tape parade might be exected to follow. A call from President Nixon. An offer from Ed Sullivan, Hollywood, the Tonight Show. A peerage, perhaps. · 
Phil had trouble finding a ride home. 

The trouble is, Hockey used to be a 6-man poker game between wily old rival s who know each other's play, countered skillfully, held mistakes to a minimum. No wild cards for them. 
Then, they let the ribbon clerks in and the game became spit-in-the­ocean, one-eyed Jacks wild, all hole-cards wild. Expansion diluted the play. It weakened the existing teams and created the 6-teams comedy of the "Western Division," 1-0 games gave way to 9-2 games, guys who should be skating security in public rinks were playing defense for the Philadelphia Flyers or the Pittsburgh Penguins. 
Esposito should be prosecuted for damage to public monuments for breaking the scoring records of Maurice the Rocket, Boom-Boom Geoffrion and Bobby Hull. Some suggested his award should be a gold-
plated asterisk. When the Boston Bruins bought Esposito in a trade that was the 
biggest mistake Chicago has made since they left the lantern under Mrs. O'Leary's cow, no one though he was an immortal. They weren't even sure he was a center. At Chicago, he had been Bobby Hull's 
caddy. Big, strong, and rough, his job was to hoard the puck until Bobby could escape his posse, then Hull would take thz puck and score it. The only times Espo scored were on Hull's rebounds. "Garbage points," the press called them. 
The Boston Bruins acquired him not because they needed points but because they needed muscle. The word was that Espo could skate just well enough to keep from falling down but that anything that hit him 
bounced. At Boston, Espo soon became the fed instead of the feeder. They had the imcomparable Bobby Orr to skate backward and go get the puck ·and bring it up ice. Esposito stationed himself like Chamberlain at the top of the key and slapped shots in. From force of habit, he continued to lateral off thz puck and he set an assist record (77) and became for first NHL player to go over 100 points, amassing 126 (49 goals plus the 
assists l. 
The league hissed. Never mind that Hull and HOwe were shooting at the same strings as Espo was, they weren't buying the act. "Where he 
· h • h 'd h · d
d ld pay m streets oes, 't ey sa1 . Ot ers, nun fu1of the

stan s, he cou I one-shot glow of the Roger Maris homer record in baseball's first expansion year, muttered grimly "I'd like to see him do it again." 
Esposito has now done it again. His 60 goals and 68 assists this season are new one-season records and expansion or not, the league monuments are well in arrears. He is still 522 lifetime goals behind Gordie Howe. But Howe is 42, Esposito,29. 
"I think I have put down all the skeptics," he said slowly the other · h 11 d h k d 1 • · ff h
mgpt as e pu e is sweat-soa e ong Johns o in t e empty
dressing room. "Does it bug me that people still say I'm a 'garbagecolector'? No. I think Bobby Jull is still the greatest. But do you think all his goals were 2S-foot slap shots?" 
And the world's greatest hockey scorer went off to call himself a cab. 

Tom's junior year marked the arrival of Terry Mather, a new wrestling coach. Mather was one of two' people who coached Tom to his 55-5 high school record in New York. He brought with him new enthusiasm which makes ­Tom and others optimistic about the future of Notre Dame wrestling. 
"I think the wrestling program has really come a long way,' 'says Tom. "We got a new coach and he is really gung-ho. I think he's going to have a lot of good teams coming up." 
<NOTE: Questioned if Mather is really the mean man he makes out to be, Tom could only laugh and say ''Yeah, he's a pretty tough guy." The mystery per­sists.) 
Tom believes that the possibility of scholarships could greatly affect the wrestling program at ND. "When they have to do it for money, they'll do a better job. We could then recruit a lot more, and those on -scholarship could keep the spirit of the team going. They're a better quality wrestler, and they'd teach everybody who is watching and wrestling them" 
Mather is pushing the ijea of scholarships and at the same time pushing those already in the program to perform to the best of their ability. Practices go from 4­6 p.m. five days a week with emphasis on technique and getting in shape through a lot of wrestling. Tom himself has accumulated a wide wariety of techniques in his eight years of wrestling (which include sum­mer clinics during his high school years.) 
But now that his Notre.Dame 
wrestling career is complete, he 
is looking for admittance to a 
medical school whzre he can 
continue his studies. Luckily, he 
managed to find time for both his 
wrestling and his work over the 
past four years, so let's 
congratulate Tom Ciaccio for his 
fine contribution to Notre Dame ,athletics. 




Convo hosts world meet 
Notre Dame, Ind.--More than 150 athletes from 21 nations will compete in the -Hunior World 

~ Fencing Championship at the University of Notre Dame's Athletic and Convocation Center during Easter weekend, April 9­
12
· 
Significantly, it marks the first time in history the event has been held in the Western hemisphere. 
Tournament director Mike DeCicco, the Notre Dame fencing coach, has received participation confirmations from Algeria,

Argentenia, Austrailia, Austria, Belgiu, Canada, France, Ger­many; Great Britain, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Luxemburg, . Mexico, Norway' Soviet Union, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and the United States. 
Cuba and Poland also may enter 
teams. Ther Soviet Union is defending
champion, having won three of
four individual events and the 
team title on home soil in Minsk, Russia last spring. 
Junior competition is limited to fencers under age 22. Men will vie for individual titles in the foil, epee and sabre weapons. Women 
fence in foil only.
The convention bureau of the 
South Bend Chamber of Com­merce is planning a luncheon April 8• to honor the athletes and 
the more than 100 tournament officials who will accompany 

desires to greet the team 
them to the United States. In 
representing its homeland, can 
attendance will be Pierre Ferri of 
make arrangements by con­
France, International Federation 
tacting my office (283-8356).
of Fencing President, and Edgar 
"We hosted the NCAA 
D. Whitcomb, Governor of In­
championships last year and the 
diana. 
International Federation of 
DeCicco explains, "We're 
Fencing was so impressed with 
attempting to get the community 
our facilities that they asked us to 
involved. For instance, any 
host the Junior World Cham­
ethnic group in the area, which 
pionships." 
Irish split on -coast 
Notre Dame, Ind.--Notre Dame's tennis team, fresh from an eight-game spring vacation trip through Southern California, will open its home campaign thps weekend hosting the first annual Irish Indoor Invitational. 
Southeastern Conference power Florida and Big Ten op­ponents Illinois, Michigan and Indiana will join Notre Dame in the four day tournament that should give an indication of the strength among teams in the Midwest. "Florida has been playing for some time while both Michigan and Indiana are con­sidered among the best in the Big Ten," said Irish coach Tom Fallon, who also hopes thwt his net squad will be able to challenge for national honors this year. 
The Irish finished the Western swing with a 4-4 record that in­cluded set-backs to top ranked UCLA and fifth ranked Southern California, both by 9-0 counts. 
Notre Dame and Florida will meet at 3 p.m. Thursday in the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
The remainder of the schedule: Firday, 12 p.m., Michigan vs Florida; 4 p.m., Notre Dame vs Indiana; 8 p.m., Illinois vs Florida; Saturday, 8 a.m., Michigan vs Notre Dame; 12 p.m., Indiana vs Florida; 4 p.m. Michigan vs Illinois; 8 p.m., Illinois vs Indiana; Sunday, 10 a.m., Michigan vs Indiana; 2 p.m.; Notre Dame vs Illinois. 
The matches will be scored as both dual meets and a tour­naments. 

Page 12 
Thursday, March 25, 1971 

Merger of ND-SMC approved by the Trustees 
Continued from page 1 
!Business Mfairs was unavilable for comment. 
According to the release, St. Mary's faculty rank and tenure will be honored. Women un­dergraduates at Notre Dame will matriculate through St. Mary's College, and their degree will bear that name. Sr. Alma said that the enrollment of women will be increased in two years by 250. 
The committees also charged the administrations of both scnools with preparing by next fall a timetable for unification. 
While there will be mor meetings of the Boards of Trustees, both jointly and separately, Conklin said that now unification will take place basically Olll lower levels, bet­ween the similar departments, academic and administrative of the two schools. 
Sr. Alma said that it is too "precipitious" to bring about co-education." He also said that the overwhelming .majority of all ages are against co-ed dor­mitories, but added that, as with parietal hours, their voice can be easily overuled since .their recommendatiOn is given onlv as 

"by-products of Notre Dame" 
Bill Wilka, who worked on Student Government's coeducation proposal, felt that fhe trustee's decision was "a good plan with a reasonable timetable," He said he assumed that the door had been opened and that Student Government, in particular, could work on something in the social areas ic time for next year. 
Weaver appointed to Exec. Co-ordinator post 
many changes by this Sep"tember because of the shortage of time. "Changes always cause problems," she said. "but we want everything to move as smoothly as possible." 
Fr. James Burtchaell, Provost was not available for comment. James Cooney, Alumni secretary, said that a statement 
of the Alumni Association was 
presented  to  the  board  of  
Trustees  represe nting  the  
feelings  of  a  large  number  of  
alumni.  

"Generally speaking,". he said, "KNotre Dame alumni are, if not enthusiastic, at least quite positive regarding the matter of 

Continued from page 1 

Weaver also said thwt his first job will be to try to dispel the "elitist" image Studett Govern­ment now has among the students. He cited poor public relations as the chief cause of this, and. said he will try to bring the Cabinet and all the Com­missions down to the level of the students "sdomething that has not been done in the past." Because it was noo done, Weaver continued, "Student Government lost the confidence of thz Student Body." 
Relative to the Student Union, Weaver will "coordinate things with Bill," but will have no active control over Union activity. 
The two appointments will now go to thz Student Senate for confirmation, where no trouble is expected. The announcements of the rest of lhe Student Govern­ment Cabinet will come next 
Kerrs net ND award 
Continued from page 2 
Shortly after completing hls graduate work in 1938, he joined 
· the faculty of Catholic University as an instructor in speech and drama, where he remained until 1949. From 1950 to 1952 he was drama critic for The Com­monweal magazine, and then spent fifteen years writing drama criticism for the New York Herald Tribune. When that newspaper folded in 1966, he joined the New York Times where he now contributes a Sunday column of dramatic criticism. · 
He received the George Jean Nathan Award in 1964 and the Dineen Award of the National Catholic Theatre Conference in 1966. He was also president of the New York Critics' Circle from 1955 to 1957. Several institutions, including the University of Notre Dame, have awarded him honorary doctorates. 
He has written two plays, 


week after SBP Barkett has 
inerviewed applicants for the 
various offices open. 
In making the announcements alst night, Barkett said of McGrath, "I am looking forward to working with Bill. He has experience in the Union and a good imagination something the position requris." 
He also said MCGrath would be able, in his judgment, to "give everyone interested a chance to work in the Union." 
Of Weaver, Barkett said, "He has experience, knowledge, and works wwll with people. He should relieve Orland and me of many burdens past presidents. have had." 
He also said, "Wilh his ex­perience in hall life, Bob woll be a valuable asset to us because of or emphasis on that area of con­cern." 
"Touch and Go.." and seven ."Swing Out, Sweet Land" and 
books, including "How Not to 
Write a Play," 1955, "The Decline 
of Pleasure," 1962, and "Tragedy 
and Comedy," 1967. 
Jean Collins Kerr, 47, is a native of Scranton, Pa., who married her husband in 1943, two years before she received her 
M.F.A. from Catholic University. A year later, the couple adapted for the stage Franz Werfel's "The Song of Bernadette" and collaborated on "Jenny Kissed Me" in 1948, "Touch and Go" in 1949 and "Goldilocks" in 1959. Her books include "Please Don't ~~at the Daisies," 1957, "The Snake Has All the Lines " 1960· and "Penny Candy," t97o. He; stage writings also include "Mary, Mary" 1961 and "Poor Richard," 1964. 
The coupld live in Larchmont Manor, New York, and have five sons and one daughter. 
Craftsmen in Optics® 
SOUTH BEND-THE SHERLAND BUILDING, 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 


JlouseofVisioli a 
The House of Vision, Inc. 




