------------~--------------~~------------------~--­
not just a whole Jot of change from what it's been. kinda cool tonite with good football weather tomorrow. sunday's about the same. 


serving the notre dame-st. mary's community
Vol. V 1., No. 45 
Friday, November 12, 1971 



Despair is probably not in order with Thanksgiving vacation only two weeks away. But don't tell him. 
Black leaders put emphasis on ND Blacks 
By Jerry Lutkus Observer News Editor 
(This is the final part of a a four part series covering the minority recruitment policies of the University of Notre Dame. This segment deals with the recruitin~ of Black students.) 
"I'm really least concerned with recruiting right now," Carl Ellison revealed as he gazed at the cigarette burning in his hand. Ellison, the eloquent Black leader of RAP<Recruitment Ac­tion Program), said that he's more concerned with financial help for blacks. 
"I'd rather spend more time trying to get the University endowment of around $6 million. Ellison figures that enough black people are caught up in the mystique of Notre Dame to come here any way. "You know, this football thing," he slowly ennunciated. "We watch the television, too." 
--------------~~--~ 
Observer Insight 
Afro-American President Ron Irving, largely concurred with Ellison about the effect of the football mystiques. "Of course, we'e got to con­tinue recruiting, but our main concern must be with the brothers that are here," he commented. "More emphasis must be placed on financial aid. Ther are many brothers on campus that are in financial trouble. 
"The maintainence of these brothers is essential. We may bring on 40 brothers, but at the same time we're losing 15," Irvine commented. Irvine ex­pressed a general contentment with the state of recruitment, since his freshman year, though. "It's showing a lot of hope," je said. 
Ellison, however seemed to disagree. "The University's progress has been slow and steady and too slow and too steady . They should be pushed until they begin to move quick enough." 
The Recruitment Action Program was established in an attempt to better minority recruitment. The program now, however, centers on black recruitment. Ellison, along with Vansetta Childs, heads the program. 
"So far this year, the program's done very little. We travel within a 100 mile radius of the campus and we do this in conjunction with the Office of Admissions," Ellison said. The RAP leader noted that RAP members travel with the Admissions People and work as a team. But so far this year, RAP has not made one recruiting trip. 
(Continued on page 2) 
Stephan says: 
FinOnces solvable, 

merger 
by Joseph Abell 
''The major problem of the 
merger(between Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's) right now is a financial one," Mr. 
Edmund Stephan, Board of Trustees 
Chairman said in a talk last night in the 
Farley Hall Chapel. 
He expressed confidence that the 
merger will "Definitely go through," but 
negotiations such as the ones planned for 
this Sunday with the Holy Cross sisters 
were still being made. 
He described speculations that the 
sisters of St. Mary's were holding out for 
more money as "not true. "He declined, 
however, to reveal precisely what the 
financial problems are, "for the present
time." 
financial crisis 
Stephan also said that the Notre Dame 
budget was now "over $50 million and 
quickly approaching $60 million." Student 
fees only cover a little more than half this 
amount, according to Stephan. Since, the 
chairman said, the government usually 
gives grants for specific purposes, the bulk 
of the remaning budget must be made up 
through gifts. 
"The endowment fund is being .tapped," 
he said, but he intimated that if the current 
situation continues, the University will 
face a serious crises in "the next few 
years." 
"We must either augment our incomeor 
curtail some programs," he said adding 
that no means of augmentation had yet 
been discovered. 
Mr. Stephan's talk was the first in a 
series to be presented by the Joint Farley­
McCandless Hall academic commissions. 
He Held in the Farley Hall chapel, the talk 
attracted over fifty persons. 
Notre Dame 'intim ate' 
In addition to his discussion of the merger. Stephan warned against the dangers of permitting Notre Dame to become "to large." 
Notre Dame gives one an "intimate " feeling, according to Stephan, and this feeling would be lost if Notre Dame's population were allowed to go beyond 10,000. He said he believed that current unrest on campuses today was due largely to students feeling that they had become "lost in the crowd." 
Stephan also said he would like to see more emphasis on the minority recruit­ment and further efforts to see more­"articulate what a Christian or Catholic 


'definite' 
:..
r 
~·"· ··.·...,•... 
t,,....... . -~ . . 

r··· ·. 
? 
-,..~.: 
Edmond A. Stephan: The major problem of the merger right now is a financial one. 
University is about." He said that he would like to see a life style in which everyone can "feel at home" without feeling the need to be in separate grQups. This, lifestyle he contended, was the "essence" of a Catholic University. In order to achieve this, Stephan argued, Notre Dame would have to have more members of minority groups participating in its ac­tivities. 
"Catholic Universities have a distinc­tiveness we have to preserve," he con­tended. 

leaders effective 
Stephan praised student leaders and the student press for cinvincing him that the University should coeducate. "I used to believe that Notre Dame should hold off on coeducation, to see how other schools fared," he said, "but the influence of these students has completely turned me around." 
He also had praise for University president Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, calling him "one of the greatest men of our time." 
In a question and answer session which followed the talk, Stephan said he was disappointed with the SLC adding that he would like to see more involvement on the part of the members with the students. When asked about improvements on the campus, he mentioned his plans to look into LaFortune Student Center and some of the other campus buildings. 

Inside: page 4: Movie mix-up explained page 4: SLC meets again page 5: I nfirmary insight page II: Foor Football preview 
THE LONE RANGER Fri. 7 -9 -11 Sat. 7 -9 -11 75~ Badin Vintage Cinema 1st floor Badin  
DIRECT  
less money A OUTSTANDING  a bigger diamond for  


-------~----~---~------~~-----------------------­
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Friday, November 12, 1971 
Blacks: Recruitment .second priority 

(Continued from page 1-) 
"I really don't think that the 
Admissions Office is that in­
terested in us, this yeatr. They 
seem to want to phase out student 
recruiting. We've really lost a lot 
of valuable time, though, if they 
are interested." Ellison said. 
To Ellison's knowledge, RAP has never developed travel itineraries independent of the Admissions Office. Dan Saraceno is their contact in the office and apparently there has been a problem with them. "Dan may get a little mad about this, but if he really wanted our help and if he really wanted to recruit blacks, we'd have gotten together already and made plans." 
Saraceno ttms far this year has been recruiting students from all over the country. Included in his recruting has been a two week jaunt to the West and Southwest. This evidently has caused the lack of communication between the organizations. 
Irvine's appraisal of the Ad­missions Office comes off a bit different though. He knows Saraceno and Dan Wycliff personally and he has established what he calls a "good rapport" with them. 
"I think they have contacted a lot of students and they are both capable workers," he said. Ir­vine's statements were clouded, however, by his own admission that he "dosen 't have a great deal to of contact with the Admissions Office." 
Ellison was not at all pleased with the whole situation of blacks on campus. "Any recruiting is futile in attempting to increase the number of blacks unless there is a great deal of money available for scholarships and financial 
A&L Council adopts three new measures 
With students voting for the first time in its history, the Arts and Letters College Council met yesterday to consider revisions in the college requirements. 
The council adopted three measures: --A&L engineering and pre-med students are now required to complete an arts and letters major to receive a degree from the college --only 15 credit hours from out­side the A&L college will be counted towards an AB degree --two St. Mary's students will be seated in addition to the SMC faculty and Notre Dame students currently seated. ~ 
The College Council is the 
policy making body for the Arts 
and Letters college. Ad­
ministrators, faculty and 
students sit on the forty member 
board. 
Five Notre Dame students 
currently have voting privileges 
on the council. Dan Moore, 
president of the Student Advisory 
board and senior general 
program major, is the ex officio 
member. 
Other student members of the 
council are: Neil Rosini, junior 
english major; Tim Kuntz, senior 
english major; Fred Antczak, 
sophomore; and at large 
representative Roland Simpson, 
senior history major. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. ~ubscriptions may be purchased tor $8 p,pr ~emester from The Observer, Box Q, Noire 
.Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, N'ot'r'e Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
aid." Presently, according to Ellison, the scholarship monies of the university are directed to minorities as a whole. The total amount of scholarship money is somewhere between $110,000 and $125,000 and this is from the in­terest on a Knights of Columbus endowment and a portion of the funds from the Cotton Bowl. 
One issue that united the toughts of Ellison and Irvine, though was the question of black women on campus. Irvine put it frankly: "What we need is more black women." In Irvine's fresh­man year(l969), ther were a total of 14 black freshman at SMC, but in the past two years, the total of black women has decreased from 29 to 21.Irvine commented, "if you want to place an emphasis on something,place it on black females.'' 
This is the first year that RAP has really looked into the recruiting of black women and Ellison accentuated this new acce.ntuation by having Bansetta Childs work with him on RAP. "We're trying to move toward a 

Notre Dame -Saint Mary's Theatre present Noel Cowards 


BLITHE SPIRIT 
Washington Hall 8:30pm November 12, 13, 18, 19, 20 
Tickets $2. Faculty, students Notre Dame · St. Mary's staff $1.50. Ticket information at 284-4141 or Box Office 284-7054. 
co-ed Notre Dame." But he sounded a note of fear when he mentioned the unification of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. "With the unification going on, the minorities may sink to the bottom of the priority list." 
Observer 

Insight 
He contmued by presenting a. hypothetical situation. "Next year,theremight be a girls dorm on the campus. If that is the case, black students may be asked to move out as their contribution to co-education. Does that really seem fair to them?" 
Ellison dealt thoughtfully with the question behind the whole interview, the question of why the university should recruit minorities at all. "Fr. Burtchaell continually tells us that the university wants to bring in top quality students. A top quality black student, though can pick between several offers from very prestigious schools--schools that are often more prestigious than Notre Dame. These schools often have more financial resources and they can put on the hard sell. If ND stops trying to see itself, we're going to lose many top notch black students." 
.-------------.-~may never see this place." 
VALUE ••• 

14k Whitt 
or Yellow $}()()
Gold. 






FlRST LOVEll•'!' 
IJIAMOND --~..!.J 
RING • SOUTH REND 
• MISHAWAKA

$19. 
Notre Dame Accounts Welcome 
The RAP leader looked at the question from a different angle.· He talked of the impoverished black student who has a vague idea of what education is, let alone what an education at Notre Dame is like. "There are several poor, deserving black students 



United Nations, N.Y., November li--lt was a quite day ut the offices of the Chinese Nationalists. 
Liu Chiem, who has been umhasador since 1962, had a lunch<'on with Chinese Busincssmen.The telephone switchbourd was so still, the operator had moments to read hl'r chinese newspaper. Advisers still around were working on th<'ir last report as members of the United Nations. 
"After all, we did participate for a few weeks in the general ussemhly ... the proper thing is for us to report to our government on our participation," said Liu. Participation ended with the vote ('Xpelling the Nationalists in favor of the Peking Government. 
The offices a block away from lh(• U.N. enclave, show some ('hanges: the name of the Chinese d<'l<'gation has disappeared from the lobby registry. Instead, on the ninth floow, a sign announces that the premises soom will be taken over by the Chinese consulate. Architects have been in to arrange for glass partitions. 
Liu,whose U.N. ties go back to the world organization's preparatory meetings at 

Dumbarton Oaks in 1944, modestly refers to himself these days as "former" ambassador. 
The 65-year old ambassador Pxplains that he will have to stay around until the end of the month to wind up the delegation's af­fairs. 
Left to be decided also are snnw p<'rpiPxing IP~al problems 
concerning the status of his 
government, now that it no longer 
is a U.N. member. 
The government, for example, would like to sign a new treaty prohibiting the manufacture and trade in psychotropic drugs such as LSD--just as they have signed other treaties drafted by the U.N. to control narcotics. But the U.N. legal department is uncertain if it can accept the pact signed by the "Hepublic of China" and is waiting for guidance from Secretary Gereral U-Thant. 
Liu has complied with the request of United States authorities and surrendered the legal documents which gave him certain tax privileges and im­munities from arrest. 

Reminiscing, Liu recalls vividly the day-and -night meetings at the 1945 San Fran­cisco founding conference when as a Chinese representative, he helped draft the chapter of the charter designed to protect colonial peoples. 
Liu volunteered that he is concerned about communist pressure being exerted on chinese living in New York "I'm sure that among the Chinese who have come through Hong Kong from the mainland that there were communist infiltrators. 

Liu expresses confidence that the U.S. will not renege on its defense treaty arrangements with his governemnt. "There is a great rese~oir of goodwill among the Amencan people ... they will not let our 14,000,000 people go under." 
'New South' Governors vote against busing 
These are the underpinning who had not found an excuse left
By Paul llopt> 
issues of Wullace's stock speecn early.
((') l!lil Washington Star as he heads into another political The antibusing resolution was year in which he is expected to approved by 10 governors with noAtlanta, November 11--The run in either the Democratic one opposing and only Gov.
South maybe getting a new breed presidential primaries, the Marvin Mandel of Marylandof governor but George C. 
general election as a third party abstaining. Three of those hailedWallace, the Alabama 
candidate. as "New South" governors-­segregationalist, still dominates Wallace gave several proposals Linwood Holton of Virginiathe Southern Governors Con­to the resolutions committee. He Reubin Askew of Florida andference. 
also dominated coverage by news Dale Bumpers of Arkansas--hadWhen the governors went home media through news conferences gone home for the voting.
yesterday after four days in 
and an appearance Tuesday Mandel managed to get theAtlanta, they had given support before a packed house at lun-resolution watered downto at least four planks in the cheon of the Atlanta press club. soightly, but abstained on theplatform he is expected to use in Wallace contended that he is final vote.
another compaign for the not much different from the so-The governors' resolution ofpresidency. 
called "New South ,,.--governors National defense said that the
These were: --Opposition to busing 
school who have been elected in recent United States "is at this moment children to achieve 
racial years. He said the press has dangerously close to an inferior promoted a fiction that they are position in many areas ofbalance. 
moderate and he is conservative. military strength" and it said--Maintenance of a strong Members of the New Breed that "history has proved that the United States Defense posture . 
claim they are indeed different only way to insure peace is to--An increase in personal in­from Wallace. But when the chips maintain a military posture socome tax exemptions for dependents. 
were down on resolutions strong that any nation will be --A crackdown on tax-exempt yesterday, they were voting fearful of the thought of pretty much alike--at least those promoting war."
foundations. 
l 


OBSERVER
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
Friday, November 12, 1971 p 
' 

ChineseUN delegates in NY 
by Henry Tanner peace and uphold justice." the city to the Roosevelt hotel. 
<C> l!lil New York Times His statement was repeated in Huang-Hua, the deputy head of 
United Nations, N.Y. Nov. 11-­english by a young woman in­the delegation and former am­
Pekings delegation to the United terpreter. Both voices were all bassador to Ottowa, entered the 
Nations arrived in New York but drowned out by engines of hotel seconds later. Then, one by 
today, 16 days after the general ground crew vehicles and con­one, the others followed. They 
assembly had overwhelmingly struction sounds nearby. were taken straight up to their 
voted to admit the Nainland On hand to greet Chiao, his rooms to the-14th floor. 
government as the only deputy, Huang-Hua, and the A few minutes later a doorman 
legitimate representative of other Chinese officials, were the hoisted the red flag of The 
China. ambassadors of the 23 countries Peoples Republic of China next to 
Chiao Kuan-Hua, the chief that had co-sponsored the the American Flag outside the 
delegate, arrived on the first of Albanian resolution, which hotel's main entrance on 45th 
two Air France jetliners that provided for Peking's admission street. 
brought 46 officials here from to the United Nations and the In the crowd as the Chinese 
Paris. expulsion of the Nationalist diplom'ats arrived were three 
Chiao praised the "Great Chinese representatives. Chinese security officials who 
people" of the United Sates in a Two hundred yards away, arrived from Ottawa last night. 
prepared statement which he outside the gates, some 250 They wore european-style blue 
read to the diplomats and demonstrators waving red and grey business suits to blend 
reporters assembled on the banners and chanting pro-Peking with their surroundings. The 
windswept apron of John F. slogans in english and chinese, delegates, by contrast, were 
Kennedy airport. cheered the delegates. A group of wearing Mao jackets. 
A gaunt man in a blue visor some 25 anti-Peking demon­Tom Kane, general manager of 
cap, Chiao greeted New Yorkers strators were kept a bout a the hotel, said that as of 
"of all walks of life," but made no quarter of a mile away. tomorrow the chinese delegation 
mention of the U.S. government. Chiao's motorcade of 12 rented would occupy the entire 14 floor, 
He said Peking's delegation cadillacs; preceded and followed which has 70 rooms. The last 
would cooperate with delegates by New York city police patrol regular guests on the floor moved from "all the countries that love cars, travelled swiftly through out today. 
wofld briefs 
(c) 1971 New York Times 

Washington--The House Banking and Currency Committee voted to require government approval in advance of . any increase in utility rates and mass transit fares. The requirement was written into the administration's phase two economic legislation. 
.. Washington--President Nixon announced the resignation of Clifford 
M. Hardin as Secfetary of Agriculture, nominated Earl L. Butz, a Purdue University Dean, for the post and declared that he would no longer seek to abolish the department of Agriculture in his executived reorganization. The President was generally believed to be in political trouble with the nation's farmers. 
Washington--A compromise plan that would allow cable television companies to enter the nation's smaller cities--but not the 50 largest markets--and require the cable operators to pay copyright fees for films they show was reached by the broadcasting and cable industries and endorsed by the big film companies. The White House, the Federal communications Commission and Congress were expected to accept 
the compromise. 
on campus today 
friday 3:30, 7:00, 9: 00--film, if, little theatre, moreau hall 8:00--meeting, flying club, 123 nieuwland 
8: 30--drama, blithe spirit, washington hall 
saturday I :30--football, notre dame vs tulane 8:30--concert, the fifth dimension, ace 8:30--drama, blithe spirit, washington hall 

nd-smc 


Friday, November 12, 1971
Page 4 THE OBSERVER 
ND gets $86,000 for research progra111s 

The University of Notre Dame 
has recieved $86,161 in awards for 
the month of October to support 
research, educational programs 
and new facilities and equipment, 
according to Dr. Robert E. 
Gordon, vice president for ad­,vanced studies. Awards for research tbtaled 
SLC notes Hesburgh letter 
by Mick Kane 

The Student Life Council last night decided to acknowledge without comment University President Theodore M. Hesburgh's letter, which in­formed the Committee of the Board of Trustee's decision to retain the current University ­
wide Parietal regulations. 
The council also recommended that the University allow the student record shop, the Crypt, to continue operation on campus, but stopped short of amending the student manuel to give the SLC final determining power over student business organizations. 
The Council passed the recommendation after hearing from its ad hoc committee, which advised the SLC to uphold a previous ruling by Student Af­fairs Vice -President Father Thomas Blantz, who ordered the shop closed. According to Blantz, the council could only approve the report, reject the report, or change the student manual so that the SLC, instead of the Vice President of Student Affairs, would have the right to grant or deny permission for such student activities. The vote on the recommendation wa 13-8. 
Blantz also announced that a Tri -partite group would be formed to "do the spadework" for a "professional" study about student life. The study is scheduled for review by the 
dismissed anyone for parietal.
Trustees. Blantz said that he 

violations this year. Dean of
could give no definite date for the 

Students Father James Reihle
aonclusion of the study. 

replied that no cases whatsoever
North Quad student rep Jerry 

had been brought before the
O'Connor asked whether the University Judicial Board had board. (Continued on page 9) 
Movie mix-up cleared; back to lottery system 
campus revoked because it was a profit making organization. N.D. Movies then disolved saying it would cancel the movies already booked. 
However, the bookings were given to other groups. The Finance Club, after getting "The Sterile Cuckoo" from N.D. Movies, showed it on the same night the K of C had scheduled. 
According to Schneid, the Finance Club probably didn't realize they had to clear the movie and the date through the Student Union to prevent just such an occurence. 
Schneid remarked that the Student Union "just did not know the Finance Club was showing the movie." Usually when ad­vertising for a movie shows the mistake, Schneid tries to rearrange the dates, but he was in thP ~.ospital that week. 
Further errors are not ex­pected. Already "Joe", another movie from N.D. Movies, has been shifted to Sunday night to avoid conflicting with the Blues Festival. 
Company and the year's first Peter C. Reilly Lecturer, for research in the department of chemistry. 
Awards for facilities and equipment included a power supply, torch and regulator valued at $1,050 from the Union Carbide Corp. for the department of metallurgical engineering and materials science, and a heart valve prothesis valued at $250 from the Shirley Laboratories, Inc. for research by Dr. Thomas 
J. Mueller, professor of 
aerospace  and  mechanical  
engineering.  
Awards  for  educational  

programs totaled at $25,092 and included: 


THE LONE RANGER 
Fri. 7 -9 -11  Sat. 7-9  -11  
75~  
Badin Vint  Cinema  1st Floor Badin  

--$11,592 from the Indiana Criminal Justice Planning Agency for a "St. Joseph County Prosecution Internshop Program" administered by Lesli 
G. Foschio, assitant dean of the Law School. 
--$10,000 from the Ford Motor Company for the Industrial Design program adminsitered by FrederickS. Beckman, professor of art. 
--3,000 from the Interreligious Foundation Community Organization for a conference on Urban ministry sponsored by the Institute for Urban Studies.. 
--$500 from the G.D. Searle, Co. for a seminar program in the department of biology. 

• 
You save 200fo on all greeting cards, gift wrap, stationery, Christmas cards and Christ­mas boxes. 

• 
6,000 different paperback titles in stock. 


zines to choose from. open Sunday, noon to 6 p.m. 
'new-s & 'Book Cetttu£ 
Everything for the Reader and the Greeter 
113 WEST WASHINGTON STREET, SOUTH BEND 
233-1666 
$59,769 and included: 
--$48,738 from the Air Force Office of Scientific Research, Air Force Systems Command, USAF for a study of "Diffusion about Wing Surfaces" by Dr. Victor W. Nee, associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering. 
Schneid: to be repeated. by Bill Sohn 
A misunderstanding by the Finance Club caused last weekend's movie mix-up said Jim Schneid, Commissioner of the Student Union Services Commission. 
Scheid noted that next semester the Services Com­mission will go back to a lottery system for the dispersion of movie dates. 
Schneid explained the problem started when N.D. Movies had its permission to show movies on 

--$1,000 from the National In­stitutes of Health for "Supply allowance, Public Health Service Research Fellowship" in the department of biology. 
--$5.000 from Earl L. Muet­terties. associate director of research at the Central Research Laboratory of the E.l. DuPont 
Friday, November 12, 1971 THE OBSERVER. Page 5 
Infirmary: just for Notre Da~ne students 

by Don Ruane If thPrc is one point to be em­phasized about the Notre Dame Studl'nt Infirmary, it is that the facility is just that, the Notre Dame Student Infirmary. 
It is not tucked behind the Administration building to serve administration, University 
('mployees, campus visitors or Saint Mary's students unless they an• victims of an emergency, according to l<'r. Thomas E. Blantz. vice president of student affairs and the man responsible for the Infirmary. 
If thl' mPdical center was open to 1-(l'nPral usc, according to Fr. Blantz. it would become a non­prescription drug store for non­stud(•nts who forgot to buy their eold pills last time they were in town, or become on of the smallest and cheapest hospitals in the United States. All of this plus the monthly caseload of 2,500 to :l,()(JO students would create a financial burden and serious staff strain. 
It is the students however who privid(• most of the Infirmary's $250,000 to $300,000 budget through their room and board fl'CS. 
Hecently, Infirmary personnel have come under minor fire for refusing or delaying rcatment to St. Mary students. 
Thl' first consideration made by one of the registered nurse; on duty around the clock, or doctor, if you come between 8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m. Monday through Friday or until noon Saturday, is whether or not the injury or illness is serious enough for first aid. If it is not, the student is sent to her own infirmary, or private doctor. 
ExtPnsivt' and Expensive Rt'nov a tion 
Other considerations include space and privacy to avoid <'mbarrassment for any woman under examination. To ac­comondate the additional caseload which will be brought about by the merger, extensive and expensive renovations must be made at the ND facility. No plans have been formulated as yet, although problems are being 
Day care center opens 
The controversial student day care center will be opened to the public at 3 pm SundayNov. 14) in 
the  Club  House  on  the  Saint  
Mary's College campus.  
Lynn  Mastriana,  a  

Youngstown, Ohio senior majoring in psychology at Saint Mary's, explained that the studl'nt government8 of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's are funding the new effort. The open house will give parents an op­portunity to meet the staff, volunteers and board of directors of thl' center, called Happy Day Care Center, and obtain further information about the center's program. 
Three staff members with l'XPl'rience in education and child dl•velopml'nt have been hired to supervise the center, according to Miss Mastriana. They are Mrs. Barbara Koehn, direcor, Mrs Karen Walsh, head instructor, and Mrs. Claudia Engeland, assistant. With help from Mrs. Phyllis Janwson, lecturer in pyschology at Saint Mary's Colll•ge and an expert in child dl'Vl'lopml'nt, the staff will design l'ducational programs and fames for their charges. 
Parents can obtain care for children for two years and older, all day or part-time within the hours of 7 am to 5:30 pm, Monday through Friday. Children from any segment of the community will be welcome, Miss Mastriana stressed, and payment will be based on a sliding scale ac­cording to income. She expects the school to open its doors for­mally sometime next week. 
<\NY ND or SMC 
Parking Sticker Will 
Get You 
«-P 
10 % OFF pn any mechanical ~ork and winterizing 
snow tires included) noseland Gulf 402 ll.S. 31 North A<'ross 
from Burger King 
SMC/Last Gasp Cinema 
Film Series 

Presents: 

Fri. Nov. 12 'IF' 
Youth vs. Tradition and Authority at an English School -creates provacative image of a counter culture. 
Fri. Nov. 19 The Shop 0 n Main Street 
Genocide made personal & comprehensible as ttl~ Nazis isolated Czech Jews in an ordinary town. Academy Award Best Foreign Film 1965. 
Fri. Dec 3 Diary Of A Country Priest 
Bresson's adaptation of Bernardo's Novel. "One of the most profound, emotional experiences in the history of the cinema." Pauline Kael. 
All 3 in Little Theatre 3: 30, 7: 00, 9: 00 
investigated by Fr. Blantz and St. Mary's Vice President for .Student Affairs, Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, bother members of the 
Inter-Institutional Team. 
At least three wards would have to be added and the number of examination rooms doubled to handle the St. Mary's students. Although only 12 to 14 beds of the 
:~5 beds available are usually in use, they are divided among five wards which do not provide adequate privacy for treatment of women. The wards are for post operative cases, recovering from broken legs and so forth; upper respiratory ailments, such as colds and sore throats; gastro­intestinal disorders; mononucleosis and contagious diseases such as measles and mumbs. 
"There is also an additional 
single room and a double room 
for cases requiring strict 
isolation or for other special 
cases," Fr. Blantz said, such as 
treatment of a resident of Lewis 
Hall. 
Improvement of examination room facilities would increase their number to six. This is preferred for two reasons, Blantz said. First, it would shorten <'xamination time because one patient could prepare for treatment while another is being <'Xamined. Secondly, there would 

be  more  privacy  than  now  
provided  by  the  three  in­ 
terconnected rooms.  

Vt'ry Adt'quate Treatment 
The present facilities, which are operated by two doctors, and a dozen nurses under Sr. M. Celeste, "seem very adequate for the type of illnesses the doctors and nurses are called to treat " the administrator claimed. Mo~t illnesses treated are colds. sore throats, allergies, infections, rashes and athletic injuries such as sprains and wrenched knees. 
"Of course, the Infirmary is not a hospital and we are not equipped for surgery, broken hones, and so one, and all of these Wl' refer immediately to St. Joseph Hospital," Fr. Blantz added. However, the infirmary does have a laboratory for blood 
(Continued on page 12) 


MAlNCHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
8::!0 a.m. Sun. Fr. Ned Reidy 9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. William Jenkinson 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Aidan Kavanagh, O.S.B. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. Vespers: Sunday thru Thursday at 7:00p.m. 

...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every ~tation-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 
Indiana Bell 




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
l<:ditor-in-Chief, Glen S. Corso Assistant Editor Assistant Editor 
T.C. Treanor All successful newspapers .are John Abowd ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend
Business Manager anyone or anything if they can help Advertising Manager
Jim Jendryk it; if the iob is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Business: 283-74 71 News: 283-1715 
Weak Move by the SLC 
The Student Life Council had an opportunity to come to grips with the reality of power in this university last night, but it blew the chance. The Council backed away---backed away like weak and timid men do when they're confronted with a situation that calls for bold and forceful action---backed away and settled for a weak and empty solution instead. 
The SLC, after hearing the committee report on the Crypt record shop and listening to testimony by John Mateja, discussed possible courses of action. They were quietly informed by Fr. Blantz that they had two alternatives--they could either change the rule in the student manual which gives the Vice President for Student Affairs the right to rule on what merchandise can be marketed on campus, or they could recommend to Fr. Blantz that he reconsider his decision on the crypt. They could not, the administrator informed the distinguished gentlemen, overrule him on this particular case without changing the rule. 
So what did the SLC do? The SLC which recommended to the Trustees that each hall be allowed to determine their own parietals -­the SLC which looked as if it was going to be a far more activist body than it's mudane predecessors--thatSLC adopted a vapid resolution asking the Fr. Blantz to "reconsider" his original decision to close the Crypt. 
The Council could have changed the Student Manual. Itcould have 
inserted a phrase which specified that it could pass judgment on any 
and all decisions made by the Vice-President for Student Affairs in 
this area, but it didn't. 
A proposal like that has to be set forth boldly, ---set forth by men 
willing to grab power when it is available and tenaciously hold on to 
it---men, apparently that you won'tfind on the Student Life Council. 
The Crypt in itself may not have been worth saving, but if the SLC 
considered it important enough to ask Fr. Blantz to reconsider his 
decision, then surely it is important enough for them to take the 
necessary and proper steps to overrule that decision. 
No fault can be found with Fr. Tom Blantz. He was astute enough 
to realize what the Student Life Council could and could not do and 
stated his belief simply and clearly. 
Why the rest of the members of that illustrious body could not do 
the same is difficult to understand. Perhaps the tradition of tem­
porizing, delay and hesitiation is too deeply ingrained to allow the 
Council to act any other way. Or perhaps the men who sit on the 
council cannot and will not realize that the only way they will ever 
regain respect for themselves ---respect from the students, the 
administration, the trustees and the faculty, ---is to act bodily and 
forcefully. 

The Student Life Council is and will continue to be a worthless 
appendage, a sore on the University body politic, unless it casts off 
this Hamlet-like affliction that has marked most of its actions and 
begin to assert themselves. 
( \ 
)_ 
f.. 
,_ 
' 

Peripheral Division,-------­
Sexism 
------------T.C .Treanor 
Wednesday before last, you read the simple and profound view of women. Read now the complex; the trivial; and the absurd. I have swallowed all these views and here spit them up in one whole, predigested theory, to be known as the Treanor theory on sexism. In all appropriate modesty, I present it here. 
There are two fundamental roles in society -lots of peripheral roles, but only two fundamental ones -to wit: to win new stuff, and to preserve stuff already won. (There is a third role -to vegitate, bult that will be taken up in a later column called "The Vice-presidency.") 
The two -role setup has endured as long as history has recorded civilization, it appears pretty stable now. It's particularly stable for the family -two's -generally about the right number of parents. Both the parents can't be sitting around the house raising up their decen­dants-they'd have to take a vote everytime they have to take a pol•e at the brat. Likewise, people are begining to find out that there's no profit in sending both parents out into the world to earn bread. Day -1care centers are generally well-run, but to four -year -old kids a half dozen mothers -for -hire just doesn't make it. 
On the other hand, it makes every right-thinker moan to realize what a sorry deal everyone -men and women alike -get from a cosmos which assigned them arbitrarily to the role they end up with. Yes, boys and girls, society has conspired with the deity to randomly shunt us all into our assigned capacities. 
What are these roles, these capacities? Let's call a time out and see. COLUMN TIME OUT Here's the things that men have to do in our workaday, western, ~Judeao-christian, Anglo-Saxon society: Get drafted, get a job, provide for a family, pay on dates, gelt ulcers, regularly get drunk and leer at girls to provE! masculinity, growl at their kids to prove Ultimate Authority, intellectualize or attempt to intellectualize, die early of heart strain, open doors for women. New, understand, this is an entirely desirable position for some people-some men and some women. Let it be. It is not the purpose of this column to deprive humanity of its most cherished illusions. · Here's the things that women have to do in our workaday, western, Judeao-christian, Anglo-Saxon society: Avoid education, get married, bear children, rear children, submit to men physically, submit to men spiritually, submit to men intellectually, do nothing of any lasting significance during their lifetime. Now, understand, that this too is entirely desirable to some people-men and women alike. Let this be. Like I said before, we are not here to undermine whatever proposterous nonsense people have swallowed so far. We are merely here to find a solution for the despair people see when they are cast arbitrarily into one or the other of these two necessary roles. 
COLUMN TIME BACK IN 
Do you know why Women's Lib exists? Because of the arbitrariness of human existence -nothing less. Nobody asked to be born a woman ­with all its consequences and spare parts. When a liberated woman , in defense of abortion, cries out "My belly is my own," she is fun­damentally right. She didn't ask for all the extra gimmicks that rob her stomach of its individuality and makes her fork some of it over to some upstart. But when the seed's planted the tree grows ... what are you going to do? Uprooting is kind of rough on the tree. 
Likewise, there are men who are fundamentally dissatisfied with their functions in society. What rich business executive sweats through his bitter day without thinking once, with envy, about his pampered spouse? And what rich business executive's wife waltzes through her meaningless ten rounds of bridge without thinking once, with envy about the excitement, the significance, of her husband's life? 
How can we resolve this conflict? (pianissimo) How can we end this fundamental dichotomy between spirit and reality? (moderate) How can we destroy the arbitrariness of human existance while preserving the two necessary reles? (forte) How can we cast off this cross of thorns and climb down from this golden fatted calf? (fortissimo). 
The solution, boys and girls, is to remove the arbitrariness, once and for all. The government ought to establish beards so that people, on<:e they reach the age of puberty, may register as a member of the sex of their choice! If a person registers as a man, he gets job preferance, salary preferance, promotion preferance, and cosmic significance a ~a Christ and Norman Mailer. Ifa person registers as a female, she gelts doors opened for her; she gets to avoid the draft; she gets be gentlle and maternal and not worry about too much important stuff, a Ia Helen of Troy and~ Martha. Mitchell. Just one hitch. Once you register, you register for life 1None of this change -after-you get -your-draft ­number-stuff! 
Speaking of hitch, marriage would be no problem under this new system. Men who were registered as men could marry women who were registered as women, as before. Also, men who were registered as men could marry men who were registered as women. Also, women who were registered as women could marry women who were registered as men. Also, women who were registered as men could marry men who were registered as women. 
In this last case, since the registered men would have their own bellies, it would be absolutely illegal for them to have children -this is outside their chosen function. Penalties could range from an im­mediate permanent less of registered status through slavery to im~ molation as a witch. 
Having solved your sexism problems for you, I bid you a good lunch, 
fr. robert griffin 
a myth of creation cancelled 
After the Six Days of Creation, according to Genesis <?00 was wea~ from His chores of nailing down th~ firmament. H1s back ached from shaping whale humps and elephants, and His fingers were all nicks and cuts from the snap of shark teeth and punctures from the rose thorn. ~or an entire Sunday, He slept, waking only for a_ worship ~ervice where He hummed the Doxology to H1mself, w1th the Father taking the bass part and the Son and the Spirit joining in as first and s~cond 
tenors. 

When , late Sunday afternoon, He looked again at His new-made world and saw that suffering and desolation had entered it, He turned His head and wept. He brooded alone in sorrow until all the heavens were swall?wed up in celestial midnight; and when the mornmg star exploded into atoms in its efforts to herald the dawn (God thought to Himself "It little rna tters. " l, Omnipotence once again donned
' His overalls and set to work. 
He lifted all_living creatures made in His image onto the palm of H1s hand; old men and little babies; girls ready to marry ~nd ~randmothers about to die; young fathers and the1r children; presidents and kings and future popes. He saw everyone of them flawed with selfishness and disease, and all were marked for death. 
So God blew fire upon all the creatures made in His imag_e, and t_he breath ~f i~mortality (new damaged by s1~), wh1ch was H1s g1ft on the Sixth Day of c_reatJOn, _returned like a dove winging homeward, to h1s place m the Father's heart; and humanity lay in dust upon the hands of its Creator. God let the dust sift through his fingers onto the earth from which it had come. Then, tapping gently, He set the world to rocking, so that in every land, on every continent the earth opened up with quakes to reclaim the ~nee glorious clay. Every other living creature--cattle reptiles, and wild animals--perished with terror on that day the ear~h trembled. ~t the end of the first day of the Uncreat10n, every ammal had been reclaimed by 
russ ell baker 


the womb out of which it had been delivered. grew sick at the sight of the blood. When destruction God looked at His destruction and saw that it was was everywhere in the water, He commanded that the sad. sea should change the c~rcasses into the elements 
On the second day, God's eye scanned the heavens in from which the coral reefs are formed. The ocean was search of each bird in the air, whether great or tiny, dead as though God had cursed it, and its billows rolled and He commanded that the flutter should slip out of its onto the shore in tides of death. 
On the third day, God snuffed the light from the sun and moon. Daylight failed forever, and there were no more seasons or years. He shook the stars out of the firmament, and they fell like meteors into the dead sea, where, ashamed of their last glory, they hid among the watery graves of drowned sailors. 
On the fourth day, God sent storms and tempests to beat down the forests, the gardens the wheat fields and the jungles. He raged at the 'mossy violet and Lebanon cedars with hail-stones and hoar frost and chills borne on winds from the heart of a glacier. Now nothing at all lived on the face of the earth, and God ground the mountains into dust for the burial rites of the garden where his Eden had bloomed. Then He cracked the crossbeams of the firmament and the rains fell from a dark and empty sky, and the ocean flooded the whole earth with its death tide until finally under that merciless heaven there was only the great' gray stretch of brackish water. ' 
On the fifth day, the ocean and the sky collided· the vault separating the rain clouds from sea ~ater collapsed, and the heavens were altogether destroyed. God mourned the loss of heaven where His feet hadwings. He sea the woodlands and hoJise-eaves danced on the second morning of the creation of theand the parks where the nightingales loved to sing to 
world. 

lovers; and hushing all melodies, He watched until the On the sixth day, God commanded that the lightfinal sparrow had fallen in its flight. Wading into the should cease. The earth was without form and void ocean, He broke the spine of the Great Behemoth like w!th darkness over the face of the abyss, and a mightythe teeth of a comb. He sent terrible monsters after wmd swept over the surface of the waters. 
prey in the deepest part of the sea, where He crushed <?~ the seventh day, God -Father, Son, and Holythem by scooping all the weight of the waters onto their Sp1nt --slept alone ... and, like lots of old people notbacks. He commanded that the greater fish should having_ much to get up for any more, He lay thereswallow the smaller; and with lightning rods as har­dreammg of~ lost paradise ... until finally, out of grief, poons, he slaughtered the mightly whales until He He touched H1s heart to hush the beating. 
the ones they didn't need 
(c) 1!171 New York Times 

As soon as the big H bomb test was over Saturday and it had been established that the ('arth was still here and reasonably sound, the government issued statements Pmphasizing that the blast had gone splendidly, just as federal scientists had always told us it would, and that peace had b('cn the gainer. 
The government had several other press 
statem('nts, however, prepared and ready 
for issuance in various contingencies. One 
went as follows: 

"As the Atomic Energy Commission repeatedly made clear in advance of the test, there was always the remote possibility that some untoward occurrence might eventuate in a test of this magnitude. 
"The commission is proud to report that its scientists were extremely foresighted in issuing this cautionary qualification, for eventuation of the not unanticipated un­toward occurrence has, in fact, occurred. A small quantity of radioactive hot air bubling to the surface of the Pacific, ha~ risen into the jetstream and is at present being diffused in the upper air around the ('arth. 
"There is no reason fur fear, however, since the maximum radiation dosage likely to result for the average individual will be no greater than he would get if he had his teeth x-rayed while wearing 14 wrist watches with luminous dials." 
.An.other press release that, fortunately, d1dn t have to be released read like this: 
"The seals and walruses that are leaving the sea and marching south into Canada following the completely successful Cannikin test, which will bring mankind one step closer to peace, are no cause for panic. This phenomenon had been cited by 
A.E.C. scientists as one of the possible minor side effects that might result from the test. It, therefore, presents no great surprise. 
"A few simple precautions are recommended. Children should not be permitted to touch any of these displaced sea beasts while they are giving off steam, as they may be very hot and, con­sequently, irritable. 
"Towns that may be invaded by large numbers of steaming seals and walruses are eligible for welfare under present U.S. regulations." 
A third possible release went as follows: 
"The extraordinary ocean wave created by Cannikin comes as no surprise to the government scientists. The A.E.C. had always conceded that such a wave was one of the possibilities that might result from the test. 
"Because such waves are relatively frequent occurrences around the Pacific basin, as a result of natural forces, we know from experience how to cope with them. As they are rarely higher than 25 feet when they strike land, all persons living around the Pacific basin may readily avoid ill-effects from the present wave by moving their loved ones, homes, and personal affects to a point 25 feet above shore level." 
Another statement which didn't have to be issued stated: 
"The Atomic Energy Commission sincerely regrets the sharp tone taken by the governor of California in his comments upon the abrupt loss of large parts of coastal California. 
"There is no scientific basis for his assertion that San Francisco has gone because 'a bunch of half-wit scientists in Washington didn't know what they were doing.' Our statistics show that our scientists are, to a very great extent, whole-wits, and we do not release this highly classified figure in any attempt to be wry. 
"Californians can be proud of San Francisco, because it went in the cause of peace. With its hazardous location on the San Andreas fault, it would have gone sooner or later of pointless, irrelevant natural causes. How much better for mankind that its ultimate going serves our nation's quest for peace." 
Then, of course, the government also had this one ready, just in case: 
"The United States government takes an extremely grave view of the Canadian demand for compensation for the five provinces rendered uninhabitable or subterranean by the immensely successful Cannikin test. Five provinces, very sparsely populated through much of their former expanse, is not too great a con­tribution to the cause of peace to ask of a country like Canada--or, as it now calls itself, Remaining Canada. 
"It ill behooves the Canadian govern­ment to greet this magnificent achievement for peace with demands that the UnitM States reimburse her for a few lost provinces by removing the 10 per cent surcharge on imports. 
"The Atomic Energy Commission has inStructed its scientists to examine sites off Labrador· with a view to conducting further thermonuclear triumphs for peace unless Ottawa moderates her hostility." 

In the end, there was nothing. 
john s wife 
I I o I I
g1nger : abortion IS• 
Sugar and ~pice and everything raun-Gingt:r wants revenge on the cruel, sick chy-that's Gmger. A skin flic without world. Her big case is to bust a blackmail pretensions, without taste, without plot. dope pushing gang of sick sex creeps. He; What more can I say? What more would method: infiltrate the group and destroy I w~nt to say? from within. She seduces one of the gang Gmger: ~eautiful, cheesy, flat-chested folk, gets her evidence, and castrates him <the eager v1ewer is treated to her tricks in with a piano wire (thus avenging her affair 
a. padd~d-bra for three quarters of the with the pink shirted pall. She seduces the fl~m. Gm~er: crass platinum blond hair black member of the group and then shoots w1th half 1~ch ~lack roots to match her jet him (there goes the sin of the black man). b_Ia~k p~b·~ ha1r. Ginger, like all films of The list goes on, so does the movie--and Simii~r 11~ 1s founded upon the unintended who really cares after all? preJ?Ise-~Jf you've seen one thicket of From a sociological standpoint, this flick pub1c hair perhaps you've seen them all. is a morass of diseases. There is sexism 
The negligible plot the Ginger (starring <from every angle, male and female), some anonymo~s foldout veteran) is anti-homosexuality, racism, violence, etc. bolstered by candid and unappetizing sex. Lest you think that the movie is a waste The 11_1en are fat, old, and when unclothed of time and money (which it is), there is look hke a package of Thrifty Mart pork one redeeming factor--the forced and . sau~ages--after sitting in a 1930 off-campus insipid dialogue. Maybe one line is enough 
refrJge_rator for three weeks. The women, e~cludmg the curvaceous but unendowed Gmger, are fat <not pleasingly plump) and rather un~mpressive. 
The~atlcally, Ginger has all the interest of an eighth ~rade religion book. Dope is b~d; Rape •s. ok~y; and group sex is Nirvana. Iron~cally, t~e !flOvie (I guess one could cal11t a movie) IS on the side of law and order. Ginger, fresh out of college (a~ter_ four years of fraternity house gnnd~ng rooms) becomes a private detective. Her motivation: her brother OD'ed on heroin and died in ller arms; at age 16 she_ was raped by a group of black men: and m college she was jilted by some pompous playboy in a pink shirt after he robbed her of her true virtue <I guess the black men didn't really countl. So darling to show the full effect. After Ginger seduces one of the girls of the gang to get 
information <the "love" scene is a priceless piece of cinematic 1 miscarriages), the girl turns to Ginger, with tears in her eyes, and asks if this makes her "a.. .Ies-". Ginger, all sym­pathetic smiles aglow, says: "Don't worry Kathy you're a healthy, normal girl--at this moment you just, well, you know, needed that. Someday you'll be happily married, with a wonderful husband and beautiful children ... " 
Such words of wisdom cause me to say, in the reader's interest, don't see Ginger sober or straight-1 doubt that the makers of the film were when they made this abortion. 

,. • " • J,.. ., l. .~ -. --"' -~ .• ' 
Page 8 ··· THE OBSERVER Friday, November 12, 1971 
a pep rally isn't a pep rally un les 5 
it'5 a pep rally by mike (the other photographer) 

. . removed from the johns and used to decorate the walking on the grass, however, these cables 
Som~ of th~ guys were s1ttmg around the other fieldhouse and campus. This product is also to be traditionally are used to cut down on the number of da.y, d1scussmg the state of the world, how bad used to show appreciation to the band, and to those people that make to the fieldhouse after following thmgs are, you know-when out of the clear Blue, people seated in the balcony. the band. 
Joe, (the photographer) asked, "Who's gonna 8, Cigars not costing more than two for a penny 13. The meat squad then in its great tradition remember to bring the rope so the wildmen can · ' for ' must rough up, maim and generally abuse those climb up in the rafters?" freshmen as well as anyone else who doesn't appear Of course then we all set about thinking about the to be a saint or a priest. return of the ''Pep rally'' -I mean the real pep rally. 14 · The meat squad should start with five more Everybody was quiet for a while, not able to than it finishes with. separate their emotions from their mouths. Then we 15. No ;attention is ever paid to those happenings 
all simply resolved to be of as much resistance-on the balcony (unless they throw the T.B, back) or assistance -as we could to assure that "the except at times when a super-star introduces his rally" is in the TRUE NOTRE DAME SPIRIT. So "next years' roomate." 
we began to toss out ideas (ideals?) we thought 16. Somebody (as Joe said) must bring a 50 foot 
relevant. Jack (of the Jack & Eric show) proposed rope. 
with: 
17' Several people must bring bedsheets (25 cents froiJ?. the laundry or free from your bed) in inscribed with subtle obscenities. 
18. 
There must be several people who bring blankets and induce their friends (?) to throw them up so they can flame above and beyond the crowd. 

19. 
Any group that cannot build a pyramid at least five bodies high must be laughed out of the building. 


coa and tie. 

How did that get in there? 20. Any group that can build a pyramid more than 
10. The band, of course,. is a tradition itself; five bodies high must do so not less than fourteen times.
however, traditionally all freshmen must attempt to 21. "The Fight Song" shall be played not less than march with the band. 
thirty four times.

11. The freshmen class should start with 64 
22. (Last but not least) the Alma Mater shall be
more members than it finishes with. 

played once. Traditionally all people in attendance
12. Most people think the cables that run along the 
sing, whether they know the words or not. 
campus sidewalks are there to keep people from 
"The initial planning stage is on admi~istrative, or maintenance problem. The fine dust, a tradition in itself, must be carefully cultured, allowed to settle, devoid of any moisture -to be ready to form the proper choking cloud at the time the band en­ters." 
He also wanted us to include: "A carefully planned, close-knit group of registered perverts must conspicuously place themselves in front of the few brave (naive ? ) alumni and friends of the " university who stand near the doors. At least a case of Stroh's per three people is mandatory in the forty-five minutes prior to rally time." 
But we decided that most people who would go to the rally wouldn't read that kind of garbage, would resent such words as "perverts" or "proper" or "administrative" so we divided not to include that in our article. Instead we tried to write out fifty easy to follow rules of conduct to follow in attending a real "Notre Dame Pep Rally". 

L All freshmen are required to attend. (Sophomores should, upper classmen will.) 
2. 
No crying allowed until the singing of the Alma Mater. 

3. Everyone must "follow the band at 6: 45". 

4. 
The temperature must be ideal -between 104 to 111 degrees in the fieldhouse and colder than a w. t. outside. 





-Compliments of a friend 
5. 
All students under the age of 21 must make their best attempt to be as "high" (on alcohol ­preferably cheap beer) as possible. If this proves impossible they must pretend to be drunk. 

6. 
Girls will be allowed to attend, but are not to be 


THf STROH DREWERY CQr,1PAN'f. 0[1ROIT, MICHIGAN 48226 
found at places other than on th fringes of the group. <Easy bra-burners, remember we're talking about 
tradition.) 

7. All-not most, but all of the toilet paper must be 


Friday, November 12, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 9' 
Happiness is
Walt Szwarc, Student Union


Blues Festival 
Assistant Services Commission, 
shopping for jewelry 

Thf' following is the schedule for . the Rlue's Festival. Beginning L•ttl.e Brother Montgomery times are given after each day With. Slppy Wa "1ce 
· Ot1s Hush Friday, November 12. 7:30p.m. Muddy Waters 
Sunday, November 14. 2:00p.m.
FrC'd lVIcDowell Homesick James, Carey Bell, Mance Lipscomband Eddie Taylor · Buddy Guy and Junior Wellsllowlin' Wolf 
( acustic act l Johnny Little John with .Jimmy Rogers
Saturday, November 13. 7:30 Buddy Guy and Junior Wellsp.m. 
(electric)Shirley Griffith 


SLC activities I 
(Continued from page 4) "has been unbelievably quiet this' North Quad student rep Jerry year as compared with other O'Connor asked whether the years as far as reported incidents University Judicial Board had go. I am happy and relaxed." dismissed anyone for parietal In other action, the Council violations this year. Dean of passed a resolution which 
Students Father James Reihle combines the Traffic Appeal replied that no cases whatsoever Board of Notre Dame with that of had been brought before the St. Mary's. The measure will now hoard. be sent to the President for his 
"The campus," Reihle said, approval. 
Elliott Gould inlngmar
Bergman's ~~The Touch" 

People & Song 
this Friday Alumni Lounge 
presents Sonny Hammons Rick Walters 
Butch Ward Refreshments -pI u s m ore 9 -2 am 25c Admission Everyon~ _Jflelcome 
SMC SOPH CLASS RESCHEDULES: 




''JOE '' 
Sun., Nov. 14 Engin Aud. at 8 and 10 pm admission $1 
Black American Law Students Ass oc iat ion 
presents a lecture ON THE EXPERIENCES OF A BLA(~K ATTORNEY by B oh by Hi II, Georgi a L egi sl atu re Friday, November 12 Memorial Library Aud. 8:00 · 9:30pm All Students Welcome No Charge 
announced yesterday the for­mation of a flying club at the university. The organizational meeting of the club will be tonight at !1:00 in Room 123 of Niewland Science Hall. The meeting is mandatory for all those in­terested in joining, 
Szwarc noted that they are attempting to get a solid corps of people who want to fly. The club plans to purchase one· and possibly two planes. They will also establish -ground and flight 
schools. 

Where the seeds of passion 
blossomed into a harvest of carnal depravity! 
, I 

ADULTS ONLY 
plus co-feature 
THE . 


GREEI{ 
at Thieve's Market 2309 E. Ironwood Open Sat. & Sun. 10-6 

-e ?JlAGIC <9. '\~ J a \ o.;.;" WOULD YOU BUY stu perfy~ng AUSED SLAVE 'Natural'FROM THIS MAN;» PHENOMENON The\. WX~E~~ will a1naze you WHAT is it? liquid satin locked ~ inside a bottle CURIOUS?\James Garner (yellow, red, greenSkin choose your color G&ID8 Snpply tht: bottle and it will beLou Gossett molded to yourSusan Clark specifications Panav1S•On3 Techn,color0 ~ ~ From Warner Bros. AKJnney Company SPIN THE BOTTLE CALL THE DAIRY QUEEN OF SKOKIE AT 5106  
PIDLLY CLUB Thanksgiving Bus Round trip $35 Reservations must be made before Nov. 17 for info or Reservations call Rich 1658 MidwestBlues Fest Nov. 12, 13, & 14 tickets will be sold at evening meal Wed. & Thurs. 3-day pass $6.00 single night $2.50 tickets also on sale at Student Union Ticket Office Sponsored by Cultural Arts Commission  
CONTINENTAL HAIR STYLING 1321 E. McKinley H wy. Mishawaka, Ind. 259-7679 Sy Appointment Only SERVING ND MEN FOR PAST 4 YEARS IN All HAIR NEEDS. SHAGS, EUROPEAN LAGER CUTS Specializing in Long Hair Look STUDENT SPECIAL Monday & Tuesday Contplete  

Page 10 THE OBSERVER Friday, November 12, 1971 
Irish set for WCHA opener 
by Jim Donaldson Spor·ts Editor 

The Fighting Irish are ready to play big-time hockey! 
Notre Dame will make its season and Western Collegiate Hockey Association debut this weekend against the U. of North Dakota in Grand Forks, playing the Fighting Sioux on Friday and Saturday nights in the North Dakota Ice Arena. 
The Irish have come a long way in the past five years, progressing from club sport status in 1967-68 to membership <in the nation's toughest hockey 
conference this season. 
Last year, Notre Dame com­piled a 7-11-2 mark against WCHA teams, enroute to a 13-16-2 record. This season, with the return of 19 lettermen and the addition of some talented fresh­men, the Irish are confident of bettering those marks and are thinking in terms of the WCHA and NCAA championships. 
The path to the national title begins in Grand Forks and it's a sure thing that the Fighting Sioux will be lying by the roadside, waiting to ambush' the-Irish I 
Plagued by inconsistency last season, the Sioux have a number of first rate hockey players returning this year who are bent on improving on their seventh place WCHA finish of a year ago. 
Standouts for coach Rube Bjokrman's North Dakota sextet include high scoring center, Brian DePiero, who accounted for tallied 18 goals and 20 assists in the 70-71 campaign and his talented linemate, right winger Greg Cameron. Cameron recorded 15 goals and 19 assists for the North Dakota last year. 
Jim Cahoon centers the Sioux's second line and he and right wing Earl Anderson accounted for 12 goals apiece last season. 
Alan Henry and Rick Wilson lead the North Dakota defensive crew and a junior, Dave Murphy, will be in the nets for the Sioux this weekend. 
"They're a good club to open against," Irish coach "Lefty" Smith said earlier this week. "North Dakota figures to be one of the top four or five clubs in the league this year, and, after this weekend, we can assess our­selves and figure out about where we stand." 
"It's difficult to open the season against a WCHA team, especially on the road," Smith, who is beginning his fourth year as head coach of the Fighting 

Frosh visit Tennessee 
by Vic Dorr '74 

IfAcademy Awards were given 
out for "classic" college football 
games, then last year's matchup 
between the Notre Dame and U. 
of Tennessee freshman teams 
would have to rate as one of the 
Best Dramatic Productions of the 
1970-71 season. 
Tennessee stunned the Irish 
frosh during the first three 
quarters of that game, and held a 
20-0 lead as the fourth period 
began. But Irish QB Cluff Brown 
then rallied the NDoffense to 
three final-period TD's, and the 
team escaped victorious, 21-20. 
The stage and the casts will be different when the two teams meet tomorrow, but the show figures to be much the same one. Notre Dame and Tennessee will clash in Knoxville, in the Volun­teer's home stadium, and since the U of T varsity has a scheduling bye for the 13th, a large crowd is expected for the game. And it looks like a lot of people 
For Coach Denny Murphy and will be going both ways for us. the Irish yearlings, this game is a Ed Bauer will be playing both big one. The Irish, after losing tight end and linebacker, John toMichigan last week, can clinch O'Donnell will be playing both their winning season by coming guard and linebacker, and John out on top in this game--their last Freeman will be used both as a of the 1971 campaign. But it's not linebacker and a fullback." going to be easy. But Murphy will still be able to 
"We've seen some of their count on the services of most of game films," said the ND coach, his regulars. And offensively, "and they look to be a pretty good the yearlings' hopes will hinge on team. They've got a very good three of those regulars. Eric quarterback in Condredge Penick, the tam's top rusher with Holloway. He's very quick, and 329 yards; Ronny Goodman, the he can turn broken plays into 40-leading scorer with six TD's; and yard gains. Their defense is Pete Demerle, who leads in typically Tennessee. They're receptions with 16, will pose the quick, aggressive, and like to chief threats to the Vol defense. swarm to the ball." The floor of Tennessee's 
Murphy will be trying to stadium is covered with Tartan counter the Volunteers --who own Turf, but MurP.hY and his players a 3-1 record --with a squad aren't worrying about the syn-that "has been pretty well thetic carpet. banged up." Fullback Wayne "Yes, they've got Tartan Turf Bullock, who was sidelined for down there," said Murphy, "but the entire game last weekend, we've played on the stuff before. will not see action tomorrow, They have the same thing up aL eitlier. Guard Steve Neece has Michigan State, and we played suffered a knee injury, and he there earlier in the year. I really willplay against the Baby Vols. don't anticipate any problems Tackle Kevin Costello is from it." dGubtful. But split end Pete Nor is the Irish coach worrying Demerle, who suffered a mild about his team's morale, which concussion against Michigan, has was understandably low after the recorded and will see action 20-6 loss to Michigan. tomorrow. "Well," he said, "we had our 
"We've had to do a lot of bubble burst, but the kids have 
juggling," said Murphy. "We've responded reii.l well. We've had a 
had to make a lot of changes. pretty good week of practice, and high-powered WCHA opponents. Irish, continued. "We want to get off to a good start and the fact that this will be an eight-point series makes this wekend's game doubly important." 
The Irish figure to lineup this way against the Sioux: Veteran Dick Tomasoni will start in goal 


we should be ready to go on Saturday." 
The week of practice which Murphy spoke of was not without its moments of humor. On Tuesday, Coach Ara Parseghian presented the weekly "net" (or "hands") award to the freshman team for their seven-turnover performance against Michigan. Murphy accepted the award on behalf of his squad, but the Frosh coach will not be looking for a repeat performance against Tennessee. 
ND "B" booters top "A" team 
The Notre Dame "B" soccer team stunned the "A" team, 4-2, earlier this week in the soccer 
~ club's traditional intrasquad game. Osorio opened the scoring midway through the first half but Rick Coleman tied the count at 1-l on a penalty kick a few minutes later and the game remained deadlocked for the rest of the half. Jerry Little put the "B" team back in front in the second half but, with 13 minutes remaining, Bob Donovan scored to make it a 2-2 game. 
The "B" team went ahead for good on a goal by Terry Hadley and Osorio's second score clin­ched the victory. 

When Notre Dame is in power play situations, they will use either Campbell's or Noble's line with Kating and either Green or Nyrop at the points. 
The Irish are in good shape physically for the opener, although Nyrop is nursing a sore toe and is a questionable starter. 
Notre Dame and North Dakota met for the first time last season in a weekend series at the AcC rink, and the Irish gained a split in the series by edging the Sioux in the first game, 5-4, in overtime and dropping the second game, 7~ 
I. 
The Sioux have already played two games this year, losing a pair of contests to the U.S. National team last weeknd. 
WCHA point system set 
The WCHA standings will be Friday night but Smith hasn't compilrd on a mildly complex decided yet on his netminder for point basis this season. Saturday's game. Sophomore 
Notre Dame will play everyMark Kronholm is a possible team in the league this year but 
starter in the second game of the they will meet four clubs four series. 
times and five teams twice, a 
The Irish defensive com­total of 26 league games. There binations will be Bill Green and will be a total of eight points RiG Shafer and the duo of Bill 
available in each series one team Nyrop and Steve Curry. Fresh­plays with another. Thus, when men D'Arcy Keating and Les the Irish play a team only twice, 
Larson also figure to see plenty of each game is worth four points. 
action. The winner of the game would get 
Smith will use three lines four points, the loser none. If the against the Sioux. Last year's game ends in a tie, each team leading scorer, junior John would get two points. Noble, will center for Paul Regan Against teams that play Notre 
and Ray Delorenzi, freshman Dame four times in the course of John Campbell will skate bet­the season, each game will be ween outstanding sophomores worth only two points, with the Eddie Bumbacco and Ian · winner getting two for a victory,Williams, and Mark Steinborn the loser none, and each club will center for Larry Israelson getting a point apiece in case of a 
and Jim Cordes. tie. 
Minor sports action on tap 
The Junior Varsity hockey team and the soccer and rugby clubs will be in action on campus this weekend. 
The J.V. icers, coached by Charlie Burroughs, will host the Chicago Minor Hawks, a group of high school and amateur players, Friday afternoon at 4:30 and Saturday morning to 10:30 in the ACC. There's no admission 
charge to either game. . The Irish soccer team winds up Its season tomorrow morning at 10 a.m., entertaining Cincinnati behind Stepan Center. 
The Notre Dame "B" and "C" rugby squads will aslo play behind Stepan Center Saturday morning, taking on the St. Louis Bombers rugby club. 


OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Interhall Football 
FINAL STANDINGS League Three W L T Pts Keenan 4 o 1 9
Interhall Football 1971 Breen-Phillips 3 0 2 8 
Flanner 3 1 1 7 
Grace I 3 1 3League One w ), T Pts Farley 1 4 0 2Dillon 4 0 8 Stanford 0 4 1 1Pangborn-Fisher 
4 1 0 8 
SCORING LEADERSSorin 3 2 0 6 

Off-Campus 2 0 Name, Team TD XP Pts
3 4 
Walsh F. Ruekert, Flan G o 36
I 3 1 3 

Alumni 0 K. Browne, Zahm 5 o 30
4 1 1 

K. Miller, Morr 5 o 30 S. DeCoursey, Cav 4 4 28 
P. Farbatko, P-F 4 o 24 League Two w L T Pts J. Reams, Keen 3 6 24 Morrissey 4 0 0 8 
NEXT WEEK---Playoffs:Zahm 3 I 0 6 Dillon vs Pangborn-Fisher, Field Cavanaugh 2 2 0 4 1, 1:00 Lyons 1 3 0 2 Morrissey vs Keenan, Field 2,Badin 0 4 0 0 1:00 

~­
Friday, November 12, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 11 
---------------------~--------------------------------------~~ 
NDin home finale vs.Tulane 
hy .Jim Donaldson "Tulane has proven it can Dame hasn't given up a point in Sports Editor· move the football --their record the second half all season and has is somewhat misleading,"
The Green Wave of Tulane rolls gone 19 straight games without ,..,""'f':lj,~~r!~JJ~~
Parseghian said earlier this yielding a point in the fourth "' r.
into Notre Dame Stadium this wPek. "You must remember that quarter.
wPekend as the Fighting Irish they beat North Carolina andwind up their 1971 home 
Pittsburgh." Two quarterbacks are likely tosehedule. 
The Green Wave might have see action for Tulane, Mike 
NotrP Dame enters the game trouble moving the ball against Walker, a junior, and Rusty with a 7-l record and is coming the Irish, however, Tulane is Lachaussee, a senior. Walker off what head coach Ara Par-avPraging only 112 yards per has thrown five touchdown seghian called "the team's game rushing and, as a team, has passes this fall but his completion overall best performance this a :!9.5 percent pass completion percentage is only 40.3. yPar,", a 56-7 romp over Pitt-average. Lachussee has I TD toss and a 
sburgh. Tulane brings a 3-6 The Irish defense, which was :!8.6 completion mark. r·pcord and a three game losing its usual stingy self against Pitt, 
Flanker Maxie LeBlanc has

stn•ak to South Bend. giving up a mere 113 yards in 
b(•en the favorite target for the 

Although the Green Wave has totoal offense, is ranked among 
Tulane signal callers, making 21 

h(•en having their problems the nation's leaders in scoring receptions. Senior split end Steve lately, they aren't a team to be d(•fense, total defense and Barrios will also pose a threat to taken lightly. Included among rushing defense. Notre Dame is the Irish secondary. He's hauled tlwir three victories this season fourth in scoring defense, in 13 passes this year, three of are eonvincing wins over North allowing just 6.3 points per game. them for touchdowns. Carolina (37-29) and Pittsburgh The Irish have given up only 
Tulane's running game is

<:l:l-8) on successive weekends. 11!5.1 yards a game in total of-
pretty much of a two-man affair. 

But since their victory over the fpnse, a scanty 74.6 yards of that 
Tailback Ricky Hebert does the

Panthers. the Wave has been total by rushing. 
brunt of the ball carrying for the

h(•aten by Georgia Tech, Van-If Tulane has hopes of scoring 
Green Wave and leads the team

derbilt and, last weekend, Ohio on the Irish, they'd better plan on 
with 651 yards. When Hebert The Irish have a wealth of our offensive line played against 
lJ. doing so in the first half. Notre 
doesn't have the ball, fullback talented running backs and they Pitt." Jim Donaldson =====================================:::::::::::::::::======================================= Bob Marshall usually does. all get plenty of work. Eight ThP Irish are in pretty good 
Marshall has picked up 317 yards Notre Dame runners have gained physical shape for tomorrow's 
rushing this fall. over 130 yards this season. game, although Andy Huff wilnit
The Irish Eye 
\lalfback Bob Minnix is at the top out the contest with a sprained
Defensively, Tulane has given 

of the heap with 321 yards and hack and All-American defensive 
up an average of 17.6 ppg. Their 

Andy Huff is runner-up with 253. Pnd Walt Patulski, who suffered a 
======::::====================================================================================Foot ba II picks strong suit is an outstanding 
Sophomore Cliff Brown will partially dislocated kneecap
secondary known as "Bullard's 

The collegiate football season is rolling into the final weeks of the Bandits", after the Wave's ace again be calling the signals for against Pitt, is a questionable 
the Irish this weekend. Im­starter.
season amid much fanfare and excitement over conference titles, 
defensive halfback, Joe Bullard. 

proving every week, Brown was
grudge battles, bowl bids and the big question of just "Who is number Notre Dame has dominated the 
Halfback Dave Herbert and 

Notre Vame's leading rusher
one?". series between the two schools,
safety Paul Ellis are the other 

against Pitt, gaining 92 yards,
There are a number of games of interest scheduled this weekend winning all seven games the
members of the all-senior trio 

and he also three his second
with the headliner being the game between highly ranked Auburn and teams have played, the last
that recorded 28 pass in­

touchdown pass of the year
Georgia, in Athens. Auburn takes an 8-0 record into the game while victory coming in 1969 in New
terceptions last season. 

against the Panthers.
the Bulldogs are 9-0. Orleans, by a 37-0 score. Tulane's 
The Ivy League title is also at stake this weekend as the defending It's doubtful whether the Parseghian has been happy last visit to Notre Dame was in ehampion, once-beaten Dartmouth, hosts undefeated Cornell. The Big "Bandits" will get much of an about the progress that his of­1949 when they lost 46-7 to one of GrPen will have to stop sturdy Ed Marinaro, Cornell's Reisman opportunity to do any pass fensive elub has made in the past Frank Leahy's national cham­Trophy candidate, if they are to gain a share of the Ivy crown. snatching against the Irish. few games. "We've been moving pionship elevens. 
In the Southwest Conference, Texas, back on top again thanks to Notre Dame has concentrated on the ball well the last two or three Saturday's game will mark the Arkansas' poor play of late, seeks to widen their lead by knocking off th<' ground game all season and wPeks," he said, "but mistakes last appearance in Notre Dame t·hallenging Texas Christian. turned in their best rushing effort kept us from scoring. Aginst Pitt, Stadium for 34 seniors, including 
On campus, the Fighting Irish wind up their home season against of the year last weekend, totaling Wl' put it all together. I'm par­II starters. Kickoff is slated for Tulane and the Interhall playoffs get underway. 464 yards rushing. ticularly pleased with the way 1:20 p.m. Here's the way the Irish Eye sees the outcome of this week's top games: Notre Dame over Tulane --The Irish seniors are making their final 
lnterha/1 grid playoffs open 
appearance in Notre Dame Stadium tomorrow and you can bet they down passes and scored the is a top-notch receiver. Mike
won't go out losers. by Stan Urankar '7:1 biggest TD of the season himself, \!arrington and Dick Ribo are theMiehigan State over Minnesota --State's powerful new Wishbone 
Playoff action gets under way 

a one yard sneak with less than top ground gainers, but bothattack has saved Duffy's job. The Spartans ought to win their fourth in 
in the 1971 Interhall football 

two minutes to go last Sunday could miss this week's contest.
a row. 
season this Sunday at 1 p.m. 

that defeated Flanner to put his Dan Maddalena and JimmyLSU over Mississippi State -The Bayou Bengals have an easy 
behind the ACC. Three of the 

dub in the playoffs. Keenan is Cannon are the cornerstones of atun<'up before THE GAME next Saturday night. 
final four teams from last season 

blessed with the highest scoring huge offensive line.
Alabama over Miami --This looks like win number 10 for the Tide. 
are once again represented: 

running back in Interhall,
Southern Cal over Washington -The Trojans' victory over Notre 
defending champion Dillon, 

sophomore Joe Reams (24 pointsDame turned S.C. around. They're finally playing the way people 
Krouse fQ
North Quad titleholder Keenan, 

on :l TD 's and 3 extra point runs). 
thought they would at the start of the season. Sixkiller's tough but the 
the South Quad runners-up from 

Hay Donovan and Tom Hannigan\luskie defense won't be able to hold the Trojans. 
Morrissey, and the lone 

have each caught touchdown be honoredNebraska over Kansas State --The last game before the Cor­
newcomer to postseason com­

passes, and Don Addesso rounds
nhuskers meet the Sooners. No problem for the Big Red Machine. ~'ormer Chicagoan and AII­
petition, Pangborn-Fisher. 

out a solid backfield. The defense 
Oklahoma over Kansas--The Sooners won't get caught looking past Anwrican Edward "Moose" 
Morrissey is the only team to is tough in front with tackle Krause, Director of Athleticsthe Jayhawks. 
ent<'r the playoffs with an un­Bubba Nowak leading the charge
Dartmouth over Cornell --The Indians were ambushed last week by at the University of Notre Dame, 
blemished record. They finished on opposing quarterbacks, while
Columbia and saw their 15 game winning streak brought to an end. will be honored by "civic salute" 
4-0 in League Two, one game John Greving and John Hession
Dartmouth will seek to avenge that defeat by knocking off unbeaten in Chicago, Monday, November 
ahead of Zahm. The Marauders head the deep backs.
Cornell in Hanover and grabbing a share of the Ivy League title. 22. 
run 90 per cent of their offensive Pangborn-Fisher is the year's
Ohio State over Northwestern --The Buckeyes won't lose two Krause will be feted as "one of 
straight at home. plays out of the power I and the surprise club. They beat their Rack of the Yards and Chicago'striple option, with both for­stiffest opponents in League One, 
Texas over Texas Christian --The Longhorns are back on top of the most distinguished citizens" at a 
mations suited perfectly to the Dillon and Sorin, on the big play 
Southwest Conference and Darrell Royal isn't going to let them drop to gala dinner party at the Mar­
talents of star quarterback Kirk and a ball-hawking defense.
second again. tinique restauran. 
Miller. The 6-0 junior from New Chuck Voelker directs the P-F
North Carolina over Virginia --The Tar Heels are making a strong The celebration will benefit the 
Jersey completed 15 of 30 passes offense, while Carter Tackett and 
hid for the Atlantic Coast Conference title. Back of the Yards Nei~hborhood 
for 165 yards and five touchdowns Phil Dunn doing the ball­Council.
Pitt over Army --The Panthers should be roaring mad after tat this fa-11, while rushing for 185 carrying. Tackett has been in­
week's debacle and will seek to gobble up the Cadets. Army won't go Born in Chicago on February 2, down <'asily, though. yards and three TO's himself. jured for the last half of the 191:!, Krause lived at 4614 South 
Miller leads an outstanding back­season, and, should he miss
Auburn over Georgia --Sullivan and Beasley will lead the Tigers Paulina Street. He atended and 
field that features Pat Casey and Sunday's game, Bob Uhar will
past the Bulldogs. This shapes up as one heck of a ball game. graduated from Holy Cross 
Paul Breen at halfbacks and Joe take his plaee at fullback. Pete
Syracuse over Navy --This has been a dismal season for the (;ramrnar School; attended De 
\lolzmer at fullback, though the Farbatko and Hank Muetterties
Orangemen but if they lose to the Middies their faces ought to turn red. LaSalle lligh Sehool where he 
latter is out with an injury and are Voelker's prime targets on
Upset of the Week: was a mPmber of the National 
will he replaced this week by offense, though each has also
G<'orgia Tech over Florida State --Tech has been an up and down Championship Basketball team 
.Jerry Richardson. Two-way scored on interception returns.
elub all season. They ought to be "up" for this contest against the for two consecutive years <1929 
linemen Greg Hunkler and Ken Linebackers Mark Keown and
South's top independent team. and 19:!()) and graduated from De 
Gillig lead a strong defense that Joe Fernandez anchor the
LastWeek: 12ofl5 .800 Season'sPct.101of135 .748 !,Salle in 1930. 
has allowed only 12 points in the ddense in the middle. Krause was Athletic Director 
Cliff Brown will be calling the signals for the Irish against Tulane tomorrow. 
Stan llrankar's lntt'rhall Playoff Picks: past two years, with linebackers The Big Hed from Dillon has and Coach of St. Mary's College 
Morrissey over Keenan --Kirk Miller should lead the Marauders Rill Godfrey, Tim McCauley, and almost the Pntire defense from in Winona. Minnesota (1934­over the defending North Quad champs. Out to make up for last Dan Hyan also providing strong last y<'ar's championship club 19:!91; line Coach at Holy Croirs 
support. back again. Mike "The Animal"
year's "first down" loss to Dillon (0-0, 9 first downs to 7), watch for CollPgP ( t9:l9-42); Line Coach of 
Cunningham and Billy Niezer
Morrissey to contain Joe Reams and the Keenan backs and move on to Keenan which will tackle llw University of Notre Dame 
head a big front four, while Nick
the finals. Morrissey for one spot in the (1942 to 1944. 1946-•11\l, Head 
Pl'luse and Tiger Ryan lead the
Pangborn-Fisher over Dillon --The defending champs have moved championship also has ex­Basketball C'oach <1942-1944,
linebacking eorps. Junior Randy 
th(' hall well but tend to cough it up inside the 10. P-F dumped them in pPri(•ncPd signal-caller in 1!14{i-1951 l, Assistant Athletic the season opener, 20-0, and wants to win again. Dillon's defense is as Tommy Ewing. The junior Stasik handles the quar­I>in•etor ( 1941!). lie wa.~ 
tPrbacking chores, and Bill Hoy
strong as ever but you can't win without points. quartl'rhack' threw five touch-named Athletic Director in 1949. 

Page 12 
'Very few complaintes on infirmary-Blantz 
(Continued from page 5) 
counts and culture analysis. 
A small fee is charged for the laboratory service depending on the lab work performed. This plus medication are generally the only expenses an on-campus student is expected to pay. The off-campus student is faced with an additional eight dollar a day fee if becomes an in-patient , since he doesn't pay room and board. However, this added expense is not significant, since one day without medication or other hospital services would cost between $37 and $45.50 at Memorial Hospital or between an average of $45 and $50 at St. Joe's. 
X-ray Equipment 

One piece of equipment that the Infirmary does not have is an X­ray machine. It has been con­sidered and "would be most beneficial," according to Fr. Blantz, but at least two rooms on the first floor would be needed, and the coed renovation leaves space in doubt. Subsequently no plans exist at the moment. Students needing x-rays are sent to St. Joseph Hospital. 
Realizing that not all problems are of the body, the Psychological Hospital Services Center has been housed on the third floor of the facility. A psychiatrist and several psychologists are available for assistance. 
Very few complaints 
In the one and a half years Fr. Blantz has held his position, he has had "very few complaints from either side," students or Infirmary staff. Most of them have centered about the use of the Infirmary by non-Notre Dame students, and he feels it evolves from a misunderstanding of the Infirmary's basic purpose. 
Fr. Blantz praised the facility staff when he noted the heavy caseload. "We are very fortunate to have such a devoted and dedicated staff. The work at times can be very trying and unpleasant, the people they treat are not always in the best of humor, but I think they do an excellent job." 
One problem the staff en­counters with patients is disagreement with a diagnosis. The patient may either feel he is sicker or more severly injured than the doctor believes, or that he is better than the doctor reports. In either case, "We give the doctor the benefit of the doubt," Fr. Blantz concluded. 
THE OBSERVER 
Need Ride to Twin Cities Thanksgiving. Leave Wed. Pay $10. John 288 2933. 
Need ride to Cleveland November 12 niter two. 4828. 
Need ride to LSU game. Will share expenses. Call 8076. 
Rides needed: From ND to In­diana University Nov. 19-20; To ND from central NY anytime Nov. 20-24. Will share expenses. Cathy 5195. John 1380. 
Needed Badly: Ride to Knoxville Tenn. for Thanksgiving. Will share expenses. Call Jim 6952. 
Need a ride to Cincy, In· dianapolis, or Knoxville. Good conversation! Call Woods 7859. 
DAYTON needs me for Thanksgiving. Don't let a good city down. Call Art 6724. 
Wanted: Books. Author, Reinhold Niebuhr. Call Jim 8952. 
Need a ride to or towards Greely Colorado tor Thanksgiving. Call Chip 8256. 
Need three Tulane General Ad­mission Tickets· Please call Chip 8256. 
w-.. 1da. 2da. ~da:-·4da. ida., j 
I-ll  ...  .71  ••• 1.11 .....,  
11-11 ....  • •·• •.-'us z~is' •11 1.11 1.11 r.4i ··z ·  

na. .a us Z:tl f.ii a~· .... ........ us ,..;·:~i :ll-U I.ZI 1... Z•• 3.15 4~7t 31-40_ US Z.W Ul US S.l~ 
Classified Ads paid for in cash when ordered. 2. ·Office huurs 12:15-5:00. Ads in by 2:00 on day before publication. 
HOURS: 
MON • TU6S -THU1t -FRI 9 AM 5:30PM WED -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLETE SPECTACLE 
SERVICE ALL EYE 01!.'5 PRESCRIPTIONS HONORE[ 
Call 

289-7809 





RoGERS Optical 
ROGER ATWELL • OWNER 
"The Last Hurrah" 

is a party held at the South Bend Armory 
Time 9 pm -1 am 

Price $5 couple, $3 guys, $2 girls 
Entertainment furnished by the "Shadows of Knight" -orginators of that late great single "Gloria". 
Buses will meet at the Notre Dame Circle from 9 
to 10 p.m. 
Members of all classes are invited 
Senior Class '72 & CCTKKK 
Angela 
ND


Bow to 
"' 
iii 
Ill 
f\ 

Friday, November 12, 1971 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
PERSONALS 

Does anyone remember a Pep Rally in the Old Fieldhouse? Senior Class '72 does! 
Mommy and Daddy, My shoes are all scuffed up. Love. Edith Ann 
KAE Who IS happy sad? JRH 
Happy Birthday Sue Remember I love you Love, Pete 
Gumper: Market Tip: Buy Bengali . It's on the upswing and ver-r-r-y stable. 
Lonely senior needs girlfriend to love and care for. Many fringe benefits. Call Phil 6872. 
Wasp Happy Birthday and Happy Buzzing. 
Kissipoo and Super Rah-rah. 
Library Love, When you feel bad i feel bad. How was Econ? How is Daddy? Am i still No. 268? (i like you). 
Dear Absurder: See you Sunday. Zap Alldils. 
Love, 
Wiznid. 
T.R. You're still big enough tor Dirty Bill. Happy Birthday. 
4 Suite-Tease 

Dear Gandpa Cuny, Today MacDonalds -tomorrow the World. Scared you didn't I Happy one year. 
The Kahuna's grand finale after­the third quarter on Saturday will not be a solo, but a Section 28 group effert · Naked. 
Right Art. Farm Out, Out of State, ice cuble it's cool. Wierdo 
JH Panzerettes are worth their weight in 'old style' TM 
Sunday, 2:00pm, behind Le Mans Hall. The Fleet Elite's "Chinese Bandits" will shatter SMC's "Mirror 1". Hwang saays "Go China!!" 
Welcome to NO Bill and Ray Gonna Do Some Killin'. Don, Bob, Gary 
"BIG LOU": strong as an ox and nearly as smart!!! 
Happy Birthday to Ramie Pamie from Betty Boopy, alias Puddy of Utchuy Schutchuy Land. Love, Always, Me 
WANTED 

One Electric Typewriter, good or great shape. Call Tom 287-2731. 
Will pay top money for 4 general admission Tulane tickets, need not be adjacent. Call Bill 8227. 
Need 2 general admission tix to Tulane Call Doug at 1723. 
Sr. wants to move to nearby farm or will help to organize one for 2nd semester. Call 232-9186. 
Need ride to K.C. Thanksgiving Friday Nov. 19. Rich 1254. 
Needed: Ride to Rochester, N.Y. for Thanksgiving. Call Jerry 6714. 
Wanted: Two Adjacent $4.50 Fifth Dimension Tickets. Call Steve 1045. 
Need 1 general admission Tulane ticket. Call Marlene 5102. 
TAKE A FREAK HOME FOR THANKSGIVING: Need a ride to New York . New Jersey area for Thanksgiving. Will share ex­penses and anything else. Please Call 8713. 
NOTICES 

NEED MONEY? Morrissey Loan Fund 
Basement of La Fortune ll: 15-12:15. 
Call Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt's and Info concerning Viviane Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line, Endorsed by Harper's Bazaar. Available only through indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP 
LESSONS. 
Cleveland Club Thanksgiving Bus Call Gary 8150. 
Pitt Club Sign up and payment for Thanksgiving bus. Monday, Nov. 15, 7:30. 9:30. La Fortune Lewter Room 2-D. Information call: John 232-2725, Steve 283-6756, Milo 283-6726. 
FLYING CLUB There will be an organizational meeting of the flying club tonight in 123 Nieuland at 8:00. BE THERE! 
photo-Notre Dame: art dept. showcases, first floor, O'SHAG. 
FUTURE CPA'S ··Learn How to prepare for the CPA Exam. 
Becker CPA Review Course. Call Collect: (317) 547-9971. 
Organic food co-op. Save money for your old age. 272-3285. 
Sunday N.Y. Times on Sunday Pandora's Books 
S. B. Ave. & N.D. Ave. 
Thanksgiving Buses to O'Hare Nov. 23 at 4:30P.M., Nov. 24 at 
1:00 P.M. Return Nov. 28 at 10:00 
P.M. Tickets available at the First Bank Travel Office located in Badin Hall. 
FOR SALE 

Barracuda, 1965, high per­formance, Air conditioning, nearly new tires, good body, runs beautifully, $450. 291-2591. 
One student football ticket for sale. Cheap! Call Greg · 1057. 
Quality S-track tapes. Big selection. All only $3.50. Call 6715. 
ON SALE: Brand new, guaranteed S-track and cassette tapes. Fantastic selections. All tapes ·only $2.99. Call 1781 (Paul) quickly. 
For Sale: '66 Ford Fairlane . Cheap. Must sell now -any reasonable offer. Mike 6729. 
For Sale: Champaign Gold GTO. '67, Air cond., Power steering and brakes. 'His-Hers' transmission, tinted glass, black interior. Call and make bid. 289-7433. 
Sennheiser Stereo Headphones. 2 months old. Excellent condition. Call 6872. 
Boston's PHOENIX now available. Cheapest. most in­teresting alternative press around. (25 cents). Call 232-9186. 
Unique personalized stationery, the perfect Christmas gift for that special someone. Inquire by call 1167 or come see our vast selection at 611 Grace or 315 South Regina. 
For Sale: Senior Student Ticket · Tulane 45 yd. line. $6.00. John 288-2933. 
For Sale . Shortwave . AM radio. Cheap. Call 8076. 
For Sale: 1960 Station Wagon. Good buy tor parts. Excellent Engine. New Exhaust System, Two Brand New Tires. Needs new transmission. Call 287-1998 after 5 pm. 
Black light and Poster sale. Also: Wally Berry shirts $3.00. Call Jim 289-2749. 
LOST 

Lost: Set of keys on black and wl1ite "one way keyholder. Jenny 5452 after 5 pm. 







