--~~-------~-~­

Apathy noted by Rodriquez 
Five declare intentions for SLC 

With only five announced candidates for the six available positions on the Student Life Council, a lack of interest on the part of students has become increasingly evident. 
The five students who have revealed their bids so far are: Buz Imhoff, Badin Hall President, and Ruch Urda, of Morrissey Hall, who are running on a joint ticket; Floyd Kezele of Grace Tower; Gary Caruso of Lyons Hall; and T.C. Treanor 
Soviet cosmonauts launched; 
possible hookup Monday 
MOSCOW <UPI) -Three Soviet cosmonauts were laun­ched intro earth orbit yesterday aboard a spacecraft dubbed Soyuz 10 in a what appeared to an attempt to link up with the un­manned "Salute" satellite which was sent into orbit Monday. 
As usual, the Soviets did not release any advance details of the new manned Soyuz flight. But the flight had been believed "imminent" ever since Salute was fired into earth orbit on Monday. 
Leonid I. Brezhnev, the Soviet Communist party leader, said at a party conference in Sofia, Bulgaria, Wednesday that Salute was "a new important step in research and the conquest of the cosmos." 
Brezhnev's speech underlined that the current Soviet space effort is a major one and that 
Refunds, for the can­celled Sophomore Prom, will be available today in the Student Personal Area in LeMans Hall. Refunds will be given out between the hours of 1 and 4 this afternoon. This is the only time for collection of the refund. 

Salute was far from being just aboard were flight engineer another unmanned Sputnik. Alexei Seliseyev, 36, also a two 
Tass, the Soviet news agency, flight veteran, and test engineer said Soyuz 10 was fired into space Nikolai Rukvishnikov, 39. at 2:54a.m. Friday, Moscow time The U.S. three man skylab 
6:54 p.m. Thursday EST and space platform is scheduled to go settled into earth orbit nine into orbit in mid-1973. minutes later. Ever since it became obvious 
The commander of Soyuz 10 is that Americans would be the first Col. Vladimir Shatalov, 43, a men on the moon, the Soviet veteran of two previous Soyuz space program has focused on 
flights. launching the first space station. The other two cosmonauts 
Continued on page 12 

Grief comm. set up 
An academic grievance committee to investigate student complaints has been established Student Government Ombud­sman Paul Dziedzic announced yesterday. 
"The committee will concern itself with investigation and consultation of individual cases presented by students," he said. 
Mike Sherrod, a freshman, will chair the committee which is intended to serve all colleges of the university. Hopefully, it will concentrate on aiding students victimized by unfair grading practices, Sherrod said. 
Academic Commissioner Fred Giuffrida will also work with committee. Giuffrida will con­centrate his efforts toward ob­taining structural and policy changes wherever the need is realized. 
The committee would not be necessary if the approved Student Life Council proposal for a fulltime Academic Om­budsman had been implemented, Dziedzic said. 
According to Dziedzic, University Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell rejected the proposal as unnecessary. "The University isn't responding so we are," said Dziedzic. 
"We plan to use the established procedure of starting with the professor involved in the case, then taking the case to the department chairman, college dean, and provost if necessary," said Sherrod. The provost and all the deans have been informed of the estabvlishment of the com­mittee, he added. 

from Badin Hall. 
Student Body Vice-President Orlando Rodriguez revealed that as of yesterday afternoon, only 
· three petitions for election had been signed and returned to the Student Government office. He said that more candidates may enter the race since petitions are still available for interested students. The petitions must be signed with the required fifty signatures and returned by the 
5:00 o'clock deadline this af­ternoon. 
Rodriguez expressed concern for the apparent lack of en­thusiasm for the election, which will be held next Wednesday. 
This is the most important legislative body we have, and it's a shame that there is no interest, especially with the crucial year coming up ahead with coeducation" he commented. 
He also pointed out that steps have been taken to make it easier for a potential candidate to run for office. This year, a student no longer needs to reside in the district in which he is elected. 
"There aren't any given constituencies or specified districts that a candidate must be elected from" Rodriguez ex­plained. "For example, a student from the North quad could run and be elected from the South quad." · 
The SBVP also noted that any undergraduate student can sign a candidate's petition, regardless of his own residency. 
Some of the candidates have released statements concernign their reasons for running and their goals if elected. Urda in­dicated that he and Buz Imhoff announced jointly as candidat3es from the South quad "because we have such a large district to cover." He also explained that they wished "to indicate or symbolize the cooperation that we want to bring to the Student Life Council. Also, this will allow us to reach as many students as possible." 
Imhoff said that one of the major concerns of both would be 
to  improve  student  life  by  
"utilizing  the  resources  of  
student government."  

The agenda for the two can­didates stresses increased communication between SLC and the rest of the student body. Urda outlined a three-point plan: 1) better use of the Observer 2) making the minutes of SLC meetings available to all students and 3) publicizing the agendas for all SLC meetings. 
Both feel that the key points in their campaign lie in the "new innovation of running together as a team" and in "cooperation in the Student Life Council." 
Floyd Kezele, who is interim Vice-Chairman on the Council, cited his previous year of ex­perience as one of the forces that 
Continued on page 2 

Froines cancels; daughter ill 
by Greg Rowinshi 
John Froines, scheduled to speak last night at LaFortune Student Center on "The Spring Anti-War Offensive and May Actions in Washington" was forced to cancel his talk because of his daughter's concussion. 
A figure in the Chicago Seven Conspiracy, Froines had planned to discuss the spring action calendar. The calendar, which was distributed in his absence, maps out a program lasting from April 19 to May 5. 
April 19 to 23 mark the ac­

tivities of Vietnam Veterans Against the War. The calendar states that "a regiment of Vietnam Veterans will make a limited incursion into the lands of Congress and the Supreme Court." 
The People's Coalition will co­sponsor a "massive assembly in Washington, combining all peace organizations fro a non ;violent, legal demonstration which in­volves no civil disobedience." This Coalition is demanding with­drawal from Vietnam, with definite dates for a "$6500 minimum guaranteed adequate income for a family of four, and 
'Imminent danger ' clause common to ND 
This article is part of a continuing Observer sieries on the Judicial code. .Today Observer Executive Editor T. C. Treanor interviewed Gary Mcinerney former Notre Dame Judicial Coordinator, who had a hand in the formation of the code. -ed. 
The controversial "imminent danger" clause of the current judicial code has "always been a part of our judicial codes," according to former Notre Dame Jidicial coordinator Gary Mcinerney. 
Mcinerney, now a law student at Notre Dame, revealed that the current code had been entirely written by University Provost James T. Burt­chaell. 
Mcinerney and former Student-Body Vice­President Fred Dedrick had helped write a judicial code that had failed to pass an SLC vote prior to that body's acceptance of the present code. 
"That code had an 'imminent danger' clause," Mcinerney said. "In fact, all Notre Dame Jidicial codes as far as I can remember have had clauses like that, although they weren't always called 'imminent danger.' As much as I hate to admit it, Burtchaell's right on that." 

Dedrick had written a letter to the Observer April 12, contending that after University President Thzodore M. Hesburgh's rejection of a code drawn up by Mcinerney and Dedrick, Burtchaell introduced a code that would "do away with some of the formalities that makes the Jidicial Code long and complicated." 
"I am not surprised to see the outcome," Dedrick wrote. "From the article in the Ob­server, the atmosphere was informal. The Ad­ministration alone decided what "imminent danger" was, the Administration used evidence gained during an informal conversation and the Administration decided what type of council was allowed." 
According to Mcinerney, however, the University Administration had always decided who would be suspended under the clause. He cited the case of the "Black Hand" gang suspended three years ago for antisocial con­duct. 
"The University has always had the dean of Students interpret the clause. Mcinereney said. "The University has to do that so that they can rid the campus of psychopaths or any number of people on this campus who are bad news. Once the University suspends a kid, they can arrest him immediately for trespassing, instead of waiting for the courts to prove criminal charges. D<Dean of Students Rev. James Reihle has always insisted on the clause." According to Mclnereney, the code rejected by HJesburgh also had an imminent danger clause. 
Mcinereney also said that his understanding of the code had been consistent with the in­terpretation offered yesterday by University Omsbudsman Paul Dziedzic. According to Dziedzic, an "imminent danger" exists when one student "flagrantly abuses or takes advantage of another person." Dziedzic cited "chronic theft psychopathic behavior or other dangerou~ misconduct," as examples of "Imminent 
danger."  According  to  Dziedzic,  the  clause  
would  react  to  the sale  of drugs,  but  not  to  
possession or use.  

In an interview, University Provost James Burtchaell, who authored the code, failed to endorse Dziedzic's statement. Burtchaell con­tended that the statement would confuse the question, though he did say that Dziedzic had done a "pretty good job." 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Friday, April 23, 1971 
~--------------------­
STUDY SauNDS 
"' 
IMPROVE GRADES " 
Improve Grades While Devoting 
The Same Amount Of Tim" To Stw11f 
USE STUDY 5_0U'· JS 1crease Your ConcentratrOn . ...... .:"''lrove Your Comprehension. Study .\t I Fastt>r R<.>te. ELECTRONICALLY PRODUCED 50L ~OS CAUSE THI::> TO HAPPW F''-: <ose Specify 
8 Track Tape, Cassette, Or l!=' Record 
Send Check or Money Order -$9.95 Each Include 75c Handling and Postage 
Sound Concepts, Inc., -Box 3852 Charlottesville, Va. 22902 





r-------, 
t WATERBEDS
f  Buy Direct From The  
Factory. Highest Quality  
•  Beds of 20 Mil Union  
t  Carbide, Vinyl, Round Corners, Di-Eiectrically  

f Sealed, 5 year Guarantee. 
Money Back If Not Satisfied. f Send Me Free Brochure 0 
t 
t 
KING (6'x7') DOUBLE (46"x7') 
39.95
t ! rQJh's 
~co.
t 
t 
56 Arbor Street Hartford, Conn. 06106 
1 (203) 523-8360 
t 
rame • rddress • 
fi~ t 
fhone




'--------Jf 
Regional Pinto Project won byND 
The University of Notre Dame has won the regional award of $1,000 for the best entry in the Pinto Project for the Academic Community sponsored by Ford Motor Company, Dr. David L. Appel, who directed the project, announced today. 
The official presentation of the grant of $1,000 was made to Professor Appel, accompanied by Bob McCarthy representing his students, on Friday, April 16 in Dearborn, Michigan by executives of Ford Motor Company. 
The grant will be made to the Marketing Department of the University of Notre Dame for use in any way it desires in financing additional academic activities, Professor Appel said. 
The Pinto Project for ths Academic Community was sponsored' by Ford with the cooperation of College Marketing Corporation as an educational service, and Notre Dame was selected to participate. 
Six Notre Dame seniors in Marketing undertook the Pinto Project as a special course in Marketing strategy. The students, Bob Fries, Jack Hafeli, 
Soviets try space station 
Continued from page 1 
Tass said the mission of Soyuz 10 is joint experiments in near earth orbit with the unmanned 
satellite  "Salute"  which  was  
launched Monday.  
Scientific  sources  said  they  

expect that more Soviet space craft will be sent aloft during the current series of flights and that the cosmonauts aboard will construct an orbital space platform. 
In a statement made before the launch, Colonel Shatalov, the Soyuz 10 commander, remarked that "ten years ago our fellow 

Concerned enough about Retarded 
Children to give some of your time? 
Open House at 
LOGAN CENTER 
Sat. 1-4 
Corner of Eddy & Angela 
REF 
weekend activities 
FRIDAY NITE SATURDAY 8-11 PM AF1~1N~~N 
Free Rock Concert p· · t th f" ld · f
turing "Easy" on North Icmc a e Ie m ront b t en Zahm and of Madel_eva, at SMC. BYO 
e ~e Everythmg. avanaug · Free coffee, tea, company at the TEAHOUSE, 8-12 
p.m. daily in the field house. 
countryman, Yuri Gagarin, left on the first space flight from this historic cosmodrome." Gagarin went into space April 12, 1961. 
Shatalov said Soyuz 10 will help "to continue the important cause of exploring outer space in the interests of science and the national economy." 
Shatalov's mention of outer space may have been a reference to the building of a space station. 
Space stations are necessary for sustained experiments on keeping men in space for in­definite periods. They also will be Vital for making deep penetrations of the solar system. 
Crosslakes 
Eric Korth, Bob McCarthy, Kevin Strottman, together with their faculty advisor, Dr. David 
L. Appel, studied all aspects of the Pinto marketing plan in relation to the Notre Dame market. 
Notre Dame's entry identified the potential Pinto purchaser in the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community, analyzed his and her car demands and presented Ford with a complete marketing report. 
Separate questionnaires, concerned with discovering the students' car-buying habits, test­drive reactions, media viewing and listening habits, highlighted Notre Dame's report. 
"Thus the students developed their own project, using their own research and reference materials. This bridged the gap between classroom theory and 
St. Mary's Junior Class President Susie Way announced last night that petitions for a joint ND­SMC senior class govern­ment will be availiable today in the student government office at Notre Dame. The petitions must be returned to the office on Monday. 






Happenings at ND 
•

Requirement 

Dean Waldman of the College of Science today denied that the College was raising Philosophy and Theology requirements to twenty-one credit hours. 
In an effort to clarify any misunderstandings concerning the Philosophy and Theology requirements for the College of Science, Dean Waldman referred to the decision of the Academic Council in 1969. 
According to this decision, students entering the University in the fall of 1969 are required to take only six credit hours of Philosophy and Theology. Those students who are currently juniors and seniors are bound by the previous requirements to take twenty-one credit hours in Philosophy and Theology. 

Management 

The Management Club has elected its new officers for the 1971-1972 school year. Filling the post of president will be Tim Lawson, a junior from Louisville, Kentucky. Lawson presently holds the position of vice-pres.ident. . The new . .vice­president will be John Phillips, a soph.omore from Sh~wnee MI~Sion, Kansas. He WI~l be assisted by John Rodzik, a junior from Windsor, Ontario. 

Student Union 

Student Union Executive Coordinator Matt Kubik an­nounced his resignation yesterday because of a recent curriculum in his major field of study. He will be succeeded by Dan Hyde, a junior who has been serving as Kubik's assistant since April 1. 
Kubik said he will be spending the next academic year in Rome under the curriculum of the architecture department. "I'm forced to go next year or wait until 1975 when I graduate", Kubik said. He added that he "felt very badly" about the move because there are a number of important Union projects scheduled for next year. 
Hyde does not intend to make any changes in the Union plans. 

MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15 p.m. Sat.  Fr.  Robert Griffin,  c.s.c.  
8:30 a.m. Sun.  F'r.  Daniel  Curtin,  c.s.c.  
9:45a.m. Sun.  Mass  sponsored  by  

Knights of Columbus, with Bishop Pursley presiding. 
11:00 a.m. Sun. Fr. John Quinn 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, c.s.c. 
Advance notice 
MARRIAGE SEMINAR (PRE-CANA) 
March 2!!, April ·1, April 1!!, April 25 
Library Auditorium 
marketing practice," Professor Appel pointed out. 
The Pinto Project for the Academic Community was nationwide in scope with 157 institutions of higher education in 16 regions selected to participate. A panel of judges consisting of outstanding marketing professionals, educators and businessmen determined the 16 regional winners based on a detailed study and comparative analysis of each entry. Members of the panel of judges were: 
Professor Harper W. Boyd, 
Jr.  -Stanford University  
Professor  Robert  J.  
Holloway  -University  of  Min­ 
nesota  




Bischoff's art 
The Art Department will present Elmer Bischoff, a foremost artist of the "West Coast" school of art as guest artist in residence for one week; Monday April 26 though Friday April 30. 
Interested art majors and other students are invited to the many events Bischoff will preside over. (Check the On Campus Today column for specific times and places.) His drawings, thirty of which will be on display in O'Shaughnessy Hall, will be one of the main features of his stay. 
The significance of Bischoff's art, essentially an objective, figurative and abstract ex­pressionistic stule, witnesses his personal faith in his art in spite of 
. the trend found in modern art. 

Froines 

the freeing Qf all political prisoners." 
The People's Lobby is spon­soring lobbying from April 25-30, which will focus, on subsequent days on Churches, Congress, Selective Service, the Internal Revenue Service, HEW, and the Justice Department. 
May 1 marks the People's assembly and encampment in Rock Creek Park, sponsored by the Youth Coaltion. 
May 2 is the date for "a mass soul rally to implement the People's Peace Treaty and the demands of the Coalition." 
May 3 and 4 are earmarked for "mass marches and massive non-violent direct action at the Pentagon and Justice Depart­ment." 
May 5 is the date for a "nationwide moratorium com­memorating the killings of students at Jackson and Kent State." 
ND-SMC Theatre 
presents 
The Musical 
Comedy Smash 

Book, Music and Lynes by LIONEL BART 



OLIVER! 
:\lay I, fi, 7,!! at 8:30pm. May 2 ;1t :!::lO pm. O'Laughlin .\nditorium: · $2.oo· Tickets. luformation: 284-4176. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Friday, April 23, 1971 
An Tostal means "The Festival" in Gaelic and what better chance to make fest than the weekend of April 29, 30, and May 1. The Scholastic (Nay 10, 1968) considered it a "splashing success," and J.E. Brogan, campus critic-at-large, called it "a daz­zling ode to sun and surf." 
This ·year we hope that you too will agree with these learned sources after joining in the fun., The cost this year (completely unaffected by inflation) will remain the same-$0.00. 
This year An Tostal will again be • expanded probably .due to inflation to include an Im­personation Contest, Ben-Hur Chariot Race, Old Tire Race, Moon Ball, and Kite Flying. 
A forthcoming booklet by Jim E. Brogan will carry a full description of An Tostal weekend. Use it for any easy reference during the weekend. 




E OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Communi~y 
An Tostal! 

At Christmas we choose Santa Clause, but in spring we only pick-nick. "Can you surrey? Can you picnic?" Yes, a stone soul picnic right here at Notre Dame. The Fifth Dimension won't be there, but a thousand Domers and an equal number of beauties from close and far will flock to the spacious halcyon grounds surrounding Holy Cross Hall, for this an­nual event. We call it, "Splender in the Grass;" you may call it what you like, but this festive occasion is second to none as an informal get together for girls and guys. Sit in the grass, stare out at the lake, feel the fresh breeze, enjoy the pleasant company, and lunch on a sumptuous free picnic-agree that this unique and fulfilling! 
lf 


Jim E. Brogan 

Kiss record on line 
What follows is a poignant interview by noted campus authority Jim 
E. Brogan. In this interview he matches wits with the winner of last year's An Tostal Kissing Marathon, senior J. T. Lyons III. Mr. Lyons will attempt to break his record-winning kiss of 6 hours and 35 minutes on next friday, April 30. 
Q. Itgenerally takes 2 people to kiss. Who was your partner last year? All I can say is that her name was Peggy 
Q. Is this because you are the love ~hem and leave them type? 
No, actually I would rather not release her name to the public. She is rather shy, and unlike myself shuns publicity for doing something that comes so naturally to her. However, I am free to say that she is a sophomore at St. Mary's. 
Q. Is it true that this mysterious blond haired, blue eyed Peggy has retired from competition and will not return to defend her title? 
That's right, Jim E., but she has volunteered to be a judge for the contest, due to her record breaking status. And of course she is dying to participate in the rest of the An Tostal events. 
Q. Does this mean that you will not be in the contest this year? 
No, I am importing a hometown honey especially for the Irish Weekend. Her nickname is the "Fat Rabbit" and she is arriving here next Friday to help defend my title. 
Q. I have been led to believe that this so called Fat Rabbit is actually 
your fiance. Yes we have been dating for over 5 years. 
Q. Then you might refer to her as your high school coach? 
Yes, she has been my trainer and coach since high school. As a matter of fact we had a few training sessions during the last vacations. At Christmas we exercised under the mistletoe, and at Easter ... well let's just say that passion week speaks for itself. 
Q. What is your family background like? Is your whole family as af­fectionale as you are? 
Yes, we are a very close knit family. Why my father and mother stand in the kitchen kissing for half an hour every night after my father gets home from work. But my father has given all genetic credit to my mother for my kissing endurance. Her side of the family has always been affectionate. 
Q. Are they "only lips my touch" kissers, as is required in the marathon rules. 
They generally don't follow the marathon rules, in fact sometimes there is even quite a bit of hugging. But their boys always follow the rules. 
Q. How did it feel last year to be kissed for so long? It was only 6 hours and 35 minutes. 
Q. Did you get hungry at all? 

No, the thought of winning was foremost in my mind. Hunger was not even present. As a golfer and a varsity fencer, victory is always paramount in my mind. Kissing is no different. In fact I could have gone another 6 hours. 
Q. It was reported to me that SW Texas State, as well as Eastern Washington State College and UCLA have topped your osculating record. 
As far as I know I am the official record holder for the USA in "lips only continuous kiss" contest. At other schools as far as I know, the couples were either allowed to take breaks, or were allowed to shamelessly embrace. 
Q. Then this is the Original Kissing Marathon? 
Yes, last year it started right here at Notre Dame. Mter many years of being relegated to club status it was finally elevated to a varsity sport. Now many other schools have tried to follow suit. Notre Dame was definitely the trend setter. 
Q. Have you been preparing at all for this year's competition? 
Yes, I have been jogging down to Leeper Park late at night, as well as sealing all my letters, even to my draft board, with a kiss. 
Q. What is your biggest problem when in actual competition? 
Muscle strain. The human body is not used to maintaining the same position continuously for long periods of time, and must eventually move around, even when asleep. So having to kiss in awkward positions for hours leaves one sore and completely drained of strength. 
Q. What was the kissing like? 

Actually not too bad, although our lips were quite swollen for a long time afterwards. We were able to communicate in mumbles to inspire each other, and this was a great help. 
Q. While kissing were you at all worried about becoming passion's plaything? 
No realizing that we had to last for 6 hours, there was no room for passion. This was serious competition, and we weren't about to allow any human weaknesses to interfere with winning. It was a challenge and we met the challenge. 
Q. How does this year competition look? 
Interest is running high. I understand that one junior who is plan­ning on entering spent all last year studying abroad in France, so I'm sure he and many others will be ready for the marathon. Myself, I am ready to break my last year's record. 
Page .c THE OBSERVER. Friday, April 23, 1971 
Bus. Council to accept students
LOSE 20 POUNDSi 
by Steve Kane Student Representation on the
IN TWO WEEKS! 

Business College Council will begin next fall for the first time since the council was formed in 
Famrllll' l'.S. ll'ome11 Ski Team /Jic 
During the non-snow nff season 

1967. Previously, only tenured
the U.S. Women\ Alpine Ski Team memher·, gt> on the "Ski Team" diet 
faculty and administrators were to lo'c 20 poumh in two weeks. 
eligible to sit on the body. That's right 20 pounds in 14 days! 
Beginning next fall the 
The h,tsis of the diet is chemical food 
Business College Council will 
action and was devised by a famous 
have student representation.
Colorado physician especially for the 
Since the fall of 1967 when the
U.S. Ski Team. Normal energy is 
College Councils came into being, 
maintained (very important!) while 
only tenured faculty and ad­
reducing. You keep "full" · no 
ministrators were eligible
starvation ~ because the diet is de­
members. Now students can
signed that way! It's a diet that is 
participate; and unlike the Arts
easy to follow whether you work. travel or stay at home. 
and Letters College Council This i~. honestly. a fantastically 
which already has student successful diet. If it weren't, the U.S. 
representatives, the B.C.C. in­Women's Ski Team wouldn't be per­
tends to give the student mem­mitted to use it! Right? So, give 
bers full voting priviledges. yourself the same break the U.S. Ski 
Presently the B.C.C. has seven 
Team gets. Lose weight the scientific. 
administrators, eligible because 
proven way. Even if you've tried all 
of their office, and seven faculty
the other diets, you owe it to your­
members, elected by the faculty
self to try the U.S. Women's Ski 
staff. According to the faculty
Team Diet. That is, if you really do 
Manuel, the counl~l, "reviews the 
want to lose 20 pounds in two weeks. 
policies, practices, and
Order today. Tear this out as a 
procedures of the College."

reminder. Send only $1.00 ($1.25 for Rush 
No regular meetings are held, Service) ~ cash is O.K. ~ to: Ski 
but are called at the discretion of Team Diet, 279 Sheffield Dr., Dept. 
the dean or at the request of a AX, Santa Barbara, Calif. 9 3103. 
council member. Topics of Don't order unless you expect to lose 
discussion range from deciding 20 pounds in two weeks! Because 
curriculum to class size. The that's what the Ski Team Diet will do! 
Council serves only in an ad­visory capacity to the dean, who must approve all decisions. 
Mention was first made of student representation when three business students, Bob McCarthy, John Donoghue, and Bob Bramlatte presented a rationale to the Council two months ago. They cited other University councils which had student representation, such as the Academic Council and the Arts and Letters College Council. They defended the performance of students on those councils. The three also contended that the student had a unique point of view to offer which the ad­ministrators and faculty could not offer. 
The council appointed Assistant Dean Vincent Raymond, Prof. Herbert Sim, Prof. Edward Trubac and Donoghue as a committee to formulate a workable arrangement for electing student representatives. The proposal has been drawn up and now awaits the approval of the council. 
As a result of the work of this committee, the elections will take place Thursday, May 6. Seniors for the academic year 1971-72 will elect one representative from their class. Juniors for the same academic year will elect one representative from their class. 
Persons wishing to run for these p,ositions should place themselves on the ballot by 


Drunk drivers bring families together. 
In hospital rooms and at funerals. Because that's where the drunk driver's victims wind up. 
Drunk drivers are involved in at least 25,000 deaths and 800,000 cra;3hes every year. And what can you do? Remember, the drunk driver, the abusive drinker, the problem drinker 
may be sick and need your help. The first thing you can do is get him off the road. For his sake and yours. Do something. Write the National Safety Council, Dept. A, 425 North 
Michigan Ave., Chicago, Illinois, 60611. And your voice will be heard. Scream Bloody Murder·. ~m· .•. C'ou,..c.'"'"' ~ ...... ~ 
Advertising contribu1ed (or 1he public good. 
signing their name to a list in Dean Raymond's office by April 2!1. On May 6, ballot boxes will be placed in either the lobby of the Hurley building or the Hayes­Healy building from 8 a.m. until 
4:15 p.m. The candidate receiving the greatest number of votes within his class will be elected. No write-in votes will be counted. 
Aside from the two elected undergraduates, the president of the ~tudent College Cou!lcil, the president of the Executive Club and an elected graduate student will sit on the council. Thus, the students will have five representatives: three un­dergraduate and two graduate students. 
Donoghue explained that many students direct serious criticism at the college, unaware that it is not to blame. 



Draft extended 2 yrs. 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -The Senate Armed Services Com­mittee voted Thursday to extend the draft two years and begin raising military pay to levels the Nixon administration hopes will produce a volunteer army by 1972. 
The committee voted 13 to 2 to extend the Selective Service Act for two more years after it ex­pires June 30. A proposal to limit the extension to one year was defeated 13 to 3 and a four year extension was defeated 10 to 6. 
Then the committee, despite misgivings by many of its members that a volunteer army was an impossible goal, voted to raise pay for enlisted men and junior officers by amounts ranging from 9 to 50 percent. The· proposal, identical to the pay increase suggested by the ad­ministration, passed 16 to 0. A House version that increases pay even more sharply was defeated 10 to 6. 
The Senate version also in­cluded a bonus of $3,000 to men who enlist for Army combat service-a provision that has been rejected by the House. 
At least one more committee session will be necessary to vote on unfinished business --in­cluding the administration's plan to abolish deferments for college students. The bill then will go to the floor, where the draft ex­tension will face a determined effort by conscription critics to abolish the Selective Service entirely or reduce the extension to the minimum time necessary. 
Sr. Alma seeks top spot; sees 'exciting' SMC future 
The following is an article which was given to the Observer by Sr. Alma Peter, Acting President of St. Mary's College. It was handed to an Observer reporter by Sr. Alma in her office in LeMans Monday. The article, as Sr. Alma requested, is herewith reprinted in full. The use of third person is Sister's own. ---ed. 
This is a second article in regard to the search for a President for SMC. The first article last Friday contained an error. Itstated that one of the first acts of Sister Alma after she was appointed acting president last summer was the creation of a Presidential Search Committee. Sister has informed us that this committee was appointed by the Board of Trustees. She was named chairman of the committee at that time and remained chairman over the summer and on into September. When the duties of the office of the president became very demanding, she asked to be relieved of the chairmanship. At that time Sister Miriam Patrick was elected by the committee to be chairman. 
In an interview with Sister Alma, she expressed great surprise over the Friday Observer article. Sister has not been contacted by the Search Committee as Dr. Hickey evidently has been. Sister Alma disclosed that she had submitted her name to the committee for consideration last November. Indirectly she heard that a deadlock within the committee prevented any clearcut decision and also prevented her from conferring with faculty or students. 
Sister indicated that she considers these next three or four years to be challenging and exciting ones. She certainly would not expect the president of Saint Mary's College just "to sit back and let things happen." The person in the postion must show positive and active concern for all in the college community. Negotiations in regard to the faculty must be carried on"with firmness and justice for all and with professional ethics being scrupulously observed". Sister has arranged, at the request of the Faculty Assembly, a meeting between faculty members from the Academic Affairs Council with the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees this coming Saturday. Also during this week, she will meet with a representative from the national office of the AAUP in Washington to discuss faculty welfare during the unification! procedures. 
As for the students, Sister is meeting weekly with Kathy Barlow, Student Body President and Maureen Elliott, Academic Com­missioner to encourage and coulnsel them to merge student com­mittees and activities and to be sure that communications and procedures are kept clear and open. One of the firs tpriorities after the Florida meeting was concern for unification of the Offices of Black Student Affairs and also the offices of Campus Ministry. Dr. Joseph Scott has been contacted at the University of Notre Dame. Father Toohey has also been asked to begin closer arrangements between the Campus Ministry team at Saint Mary's and at the University. 
When Sister was asked about her interest in foreign study, she replied that ever since 1958 when she had the opportunity to spend time abroad visting institutions where the SMC girls studied, she has been vitally interested. This was long before Angers, or lnnsbruck, or Tokyo, or Rome were established. She would be most happy to be totally involved in the foreign programs. It would be a very satisfying postion without too much responsibility and with very little con­troversy involved. However, if the trustees were to ask her to remain on, she would give it serious consideration. She realizes that these next few years are not going to be easy ones for the person guiding the unification. Sacrifices are going to have to be made by individuals and by both institutions. This was clearly stated in the news release which mentioned "two proud institutions uniting". Both institutions have a right to be proud. "This pride" Sister stated "is virtuous. It is pride in past accomplishments; pride in present endeavors; and pride in future opportunities that wil be given to students and to faculty which could not be given by either institution alone". 

Friday, April 23, 1971 THE, OBSERVER 

S. Bend C of C meets SMC-ABCW reps 
'·~·-·.·.·.·.-.-.-.-.-.-.·.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.·.·.·.·.-.-.·.-.-.·.··:·:·:···:·:·:·:•:•:•:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:•:•:•:•:•:•;•;•;•:•;•;•;•:·.•;·.•.·•.-.-_;•;•:•ai!: Charles E. Sheedy, St. Mary's
t......................·.·.·.·.·.·.·.··-.,;~·o-c~·t"f{S··o·P"il"tAr·····-·-··················~-·-"1 SBP Kathy Barlow, Notre Dame 
musical selections by Susie 
Kellow, Carol Lacey, Rita Walz 
and Curt Blais, Bob Muniz and
l,............,..~;...:.,:::::::...::;.,;,.::~:::~..=.:.~..,,.......l 
Tom R.-"o"'c:::h.:..:e:.:.·---------, 
Acollege graduate just doesn't getthe warm welcome he used to. 
There's a lot of competition in the job market" today. And a college degree alone just doesn't carry as much weight with some employers. 
That's why Honeywell developed their Postgraduate Studies Program. A program designed exclusively for college graduates. 
No matter what your college major is. If you can qualify you'll be ready to learn com­puters from one of the world's top computer manufacturers and leading educators, Honeywell. 
You'll be ready to start right off in the fastest growing industry around. An industry that doubles in size and opportunity every five years. 
There still won't be any brass bands around to greet you, but you will get a warm handshake. All you have to do is mail this coupon. Or call (312) 368-0688. 


r----------------,
Admissions Officer 1 Honeywell Institute of Information Sciences La Salle Wacker Building, 221 North La Salle St. 1 Chicago, Illinois 60601 I 
0 I would like additional information on your program. 
I am interested in 0 Day 0 Evening classes. Name:____________ 
College:_____________~ 
College Address:__________ 
_______Phone:______ 
Home Address:_________ 
_______Phone:______ 
Approved for veterans. I 
L----------------~ 
The OtherComputerCompany: 

Honeywell 

Approved by the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction State of Illinois. 

In an effort to mediate the stalemate between the St. Mary's administration and the black students on that campus, the South Bend Chamber of Com­merce has offered it services. 
Yesterday afternoon, Steven t. McTigue, a representative for the civic orgaanization, confirmed that one attempt at com­munication was made last Tuesday afternoon. 
McTigue explained that the Chamber of Commerce called a meeting "to try and alleviate the amount of miscommunication that was occuring downtown about the program and problems of the black students at St. Mary's. We wanted to hear both sides." 
He indicated that the only in­formation that the Chamber of Commerce could obtain was from the South Bend Tribune. · 
At the meeting, both the ad­ministration and Miss Susan Jackson, president of the Association of Black College Women, presented their demands. According to those in attendance, the administration cited several problems of in­creased minority recruitment. 
These included a lack of black students compatible with St. r.1ary's academic requirements, financial problems, and the additional programs which would have to be initiated to ac­commodate the increased number of minority students. 
So far, the only action that has been taken by St. Mary's is the hiring of a black teacher from South America, according to Miss Jackson. With the departure of Lemuel Joyner, the college's only black faculty member, the number of black faculty mem­bers at the college will remain at one. 
Miss Jackson reiterated the seven demands which the ABCW presented to the administration last March. The demands which include the establishment of a black student affairs office, the hiring of two additional black faculty members and the in­creased black recruitment have yet to be acted on. 
Miss Jackson related to the group the ABCW also presented the list to the Board of Trustees which met prior to the Florida meeting. At the Trustee meeting, the board members discussed several possibilities to avert the 


Coed forum to discuss ND-SMC future 
Coeducation (Censored), a student body of what is planned forum to be held at 2:00 P.M. for the coed future of ND-SMC. Sunday in front of the library' has Speakers at the forum include ~een organized to inform the Sister Marie Eileen, Father situation. They decided to in­vestigate the charges and report to Miss Jackson at the next trustee meeting, presently scheduled for early May. 
"There isn't a communications problem," Miss Jackson said yesterday. "The problem is that this college is racist. They don't want to face the issue. They want to intellectualize instead of solving the problem." · 
She said that the Chamber of Commerce suggested that another committee be formed to study the situation. (in response to the black students' demands, Acting President Sr. Alma Peter created a committee task force to study the situation and report ot her by April first. Most of the members resigned, however, because they did not think that the committee's suggestions would be seriouly acted on by the present administration.) 
The committee proposed by the Chamber of Commerce would evaluate the present alleged discrepancy between written and practiced policies regarding 
black students. Also in attendance were Dr. 
Miss Jac\tson, said the Jack Detzler, senior vice­Chamber of' Commerce had president and provost, and Dr. asked her to consult with the Joseph Scott, head of the Black ABCW to determine if this action Studies Program at Notre Dame. would be 
.//WASHINGTON: Antiwar veterans voted Wednesday to sleep at their encampment at the foot of Capitol Hill in defiance of a Supreme Court ban and the advice of their lawyer, former Attorney General Ramsey Clark. 


Protesters arrested; veterans camp out 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Police arrested 110 antiwar demon­strators on isorderly conduct charges at a Supreme Court rally yesterday, but it was learned that President Nixon personally authorized protesting Vietnam veterans to camp out on the mall in defiance of a court order. 
Insiders at the White House said Nixon passed the word "without fanfare" to permit the veterans to remain at their bivouac at the foot of Capitol Hill throughout Wednesday night despite a ban issued by Chief Justice Warren E. Burger and affirmed by the full Supreme Court. 
Late yesterday afternoon, at the request of the Justice Department, U.S. District Judge George L. Hart Jr. dissolved his original ban against the veterans' encampment which the Supreme Court ultimately had upheld. 
But he severely rebuked the Justice Department for changing its mind on the issue. 
L. Patrick Gray, assistant attorney general in the civil division, asked Judge Hart to dissolve his order as originally initiated by the Justice Depart­ment partially because "these 

~::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::~ 
&  Michael's  t  
I~'}~~~J@;~~;~;~:u: T> ~!h"'-:4 VD!IRJ) HAIRCUTS-HAIR S'l'Yl  I i!l  
;~;~-{4XCF  CUTS-HAIR  STRAIGHT:JVINC  ::~::  

~::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::i 
men are men who have served their country honorably.'; 
Hart vacated his preliminary injunction but said he felt the Justice Department had "dangerously and Improperly used" the judicial branch in the case of the -veterans' campsite issue. 
He noted that after he issued his original ban last Friday, the department set a 4:30 p.m. deadline Wednesday for the veterans to break camp, or at least to refrain from sleeping on the mall. The veterans voted 480 to 400 to sleep here anyway, rather than stay awake there all night. 
Police men at the scene looked the other way and made no arrests. 
"If you did not wish to enforce the deadline, you should have come to this court then and asked to have the injunction dissolved," Judge Hart told Gray. 
"You have put the Vietnam veterans in a situation of openly defying the law of this country and openly defying the courts of this country," he added. 
"This is a position this country cannot tolerate and live with:' 
Complete Spectacle Service Glasses Duplicated Your Doctor's RX filled 

Largest selection of wire6 

SBP John Barkett,Coeducation Commissioner Bill Wilka, Mrs. Helen Williams, Mrs. Ann Walsh and former SBP Dave Krashna. 
These speakers will cover various topics, such as the psychology of coeducation, the financial aspects and student government. 
The program will also feature 
----~---------­
Page 6. THE OBSERVER 



THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief 
T.C. Treanor, Executive Editor Bruce Rieck, Business Manager 
Now I want you to remember that no bastard ever won a war by dying for his country. He won it by making the other poor dumb bastard die for his country. 
-George C. Scott in Patton 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
lntntinent Danger? 
or How to polish up the Dome after a drug raid 
It is easy to understand why the Provost refused to endorse the definition of the "imminent danger" clause recently drawn up by the Student Government Ombudsman. 
Such a move would have cramped Fr. Burtchaell's style and forced him to conform to some kind of standard before , handing down dictums ordering students suspended. 
It was good of the Provost to commend Paul Dziedzic for a good job yet at the same time refuse to do anything that would have given it validity. 
The most ludicrous aspect of this entire charade is that the "imminent danger" clause, through the way it was used, benefited no one, not the students not the administration and certainly not the accused. 
If a student, through his actions, is judged an imminent danger to the com­munity by our august and noble administrators the Dean of Students suspends him. Yet what does the suspension entail? 
In the case of the three of the four students involved in the drug case it meant a set of bizzare and seemingly contradictory circumstances. 
According to two of them their suspension was a "private matter" between themselves and the Dean of Students. They claimed that neither the registrars office nor their professors were notified of any change in their status. At the same time they were in a state of limbo, not knowing if they would be allowed to continue at the university. 
They of course had the option of immediate appeal. Apparently they chose the logical course of waiting until their cases were disposed of in civil court before appealing. Even after two were acquitted and the charges against the other were dropped, each was forced to appeal, though it was clearly within the Dean of Students power to lift the suspensions. 
What purposes did their suspensions serve? All three were judged by the Provost and Dean of Students to be imminent dangers to the university com­munity. Yet all three were free to remain on campus and attend classes, and free at the same time to perpetrate whatever harm the administration felt that had been done in the first place. 
Most likely though it was beneficial to the Provost and other esteemed members of the administration when questioned by irate alumni and other supporters, to be able to point to the fact that the four students, who had been arrested for drugs, had been suspended. 
Notre Dame's image thus, was ressurected, after the embarassement of a drug raid, by quick action against the evil doers. 
Even if it means praying for divine intervention we feel the SLC should take the Ombudsman's definition of the imminent danger clause and re-work it to read that if the Dean of Students does suspend someone as an "imminent danger to the university" he should be forced, within 72 hours of his action, to justify it before the appeals board. 
In this way the rights of the students, especially the innocent ones, would be amply protected and they would not be forced to suffer through a period of un­certainty merely to act as a public relations sop. For the duration of the SLC elections aH editorials will be written by the editor. 
Dave Lammers=========== The War & how to heat it 
Along with the spring flowers, the anxieties of students about the war in Indochina have risen. This year at Note Dame many people have willed the war out of their hearts and minds by claiming to be somehow above harsh political realities. Many have been "apolitical", ostensibly claiming to scorn political action while in­wardly knowing that the price of resistance to the war in Indochina is one that we cannot, or will not, pay. We are free to forget about the war, we can afford to ignore it if the draft is off of our backs, and shun the war we have, though the destruction of the 18 million people of Indochina by American bombers and troops has increased steadily over the year. 
But the purpose of this article is not to describe the horrors of the war, or to deride our communal lack of a spirit of resistance to evil, but to outline some of the things that can be done this spring to oppose Vietnamization. Several actions have been planned, both locally and in Washington. 
In Washington, the focus of protest centers around two dates, April 24 and May 1. One April 24, veterans, students, and citizens will con­duct a massive, peaceful rally in Washington, D.C. As Dr. Julian Pleasants of the biology department noted, if few people show up the Nixon administration will claim that its foreign policy has been ac­cepted. A poor showing on April 24 could harm the success of local anti-war movements. But there are arguments against going to Washington for tommorow's rally. Why spend the money to march around the Capitol, when that has been done so many times before? Why not spend the time informing voters of the fallacies of Viet­namization, and why not spend the money on more worthwhile causes? But at any rate, signups for rides and riders for the Washington trip are being conducted at the table in the concourse of the library. 
The days of May <May 1st to May 5th) have attracted a lot of interest on the East Coast. The days of May present a more varied scenario as different issues, such as poverty, rascism, the war, and the welfare system, will be protested as interrelating injustices. Groups will stage civil disobediance actions at different Federal buildings on succeeding days, the Justice Deparment one day, the Pentagon on the next day, etc. Similarly, different groups will use different methods of protest marching, lobbying, sit-ins, and disruptions of roads going on simultaneously according to individual preference. 
At Boston University, an 'interesting phenomenon has occurred relating to the days in May. A group of eight students formed what they called "The Mayflower Family". and banded together to plan what they wanted to do as a group in Washington during the first week of May; where they wanted to go what and how they wanted to protest, etc. Since that first group, ?ozens of other "families" have formed and about 500 hundred students are organized into different families that will go to the capitol and perform different functions. Paren­thetically, much of the paranOia about violence that has prejudiced people at Notre ~Dame agamst going to Washington during the first week of May has not afflicted the Eastern campuses, who do not foresee violent police-protester confrontation. 
Students at Notre Dame could use the Boston University example to 
organize "families" among friends that would have specific ob­
jectives such as visiting Congressmen, talking to government em­
ployees about signing the Peace Treaty, sitting-in at the Pentagon etc. 
But many other people have no desire to travel to Washington and 
thus, actions are being planned locally. Starting at midnight tonight, a 
48 hour peace vigil will be maintained on the steps of the Ad­
minsitration building. Some people plan to fast for the entire two days 
and contribute the unspent money to the medical aid center at Quang 
Ngai, South Vietnam. But it is not expected that everyone spend the 
enire 48 hours there, people are free to come and join and leave at their 
whim and fancy. 

The Peace Treaty still has not been signed by very many Notre 
Dame people, and if you so desire it would be worthwhile to read and 
sign the Peace Treaty and circulate it among your friends and family. 
Copies of the Peace Treaty can be acquired at the table in the con­
course of the library. 

The Refugee Aid Program also needs help and monetary con~ 
tributions, and the letters asking support from the alumni still cry out 
for writing. Money can be mailed to Box 626, Notre Dame. 
I hope that many of us, individually and in groups, can reawaken to our very heavy burden: confronting the war and our relation to it. A week of activity son't do much, but I have a sense that those people that have the courage to oppose the war this spring won't stop when the first week of May is behind us. 

THE OBSERVER Page 7 
rev. robert griffin 



the blood of the lamb 

In a single file, they seem to come these days: the young men seeking a chaplain's testimony as to their confirmation in the gentle ways of peace. Daily, letters go out to draft boards, filled with insights offered by chaps who have tried to catch glimpses of themselves in childhoods and puberties of non-consummated violence, and who ultimately ground their commitment to pacifism on the ethic of a village rabbi who was hung upon nails until death. Daily, I listen to the young men as they tell me of the peace message of the Gospel figure whom I sometimes fail to understand: the stormy, troubled Galilean teacher whose anger is imaged in metaphors of fire-baths and never-dying worms. It is not until His death that I know Him to be gentle. It is not until He speaks from the cross, "Father, forgive them," that I can understand that His Name is Love. It is there, at that point, that I can commit myself to the non-violent ways: not from an ethic based on an exegesis of words, but from a theology of the Word Who revealed the heart of God. 
Yet, even as I write the letters in support of the pacifistic young, I am twisted by the paradoxes and contradictions of the efforts to build the kingdom of gentleness on the metaphysical corner-stone of the Divine Emotions. In all the stories of our religious traditions, God rarely seems to have dealt with man without inflicting cruelty; and Job as well as Jesus is a man of sorrows. The pathway from Genesis to Vietnam is strewn with the bleached bones of saints and sinners who have died under the curse of punishment. Religion is more apt to begin with an emotion of fear rather than of love, and in the end God had to punish Himself in the form of His suf­fering, servant Son before He could be credible as Someone who loves the world. 
Recently, I spent Holy Week with the sandbox sophisticates and romper room ingenues of the Children's Liturgy in the Keenan-Stanford chapel. I read them, with euphemisms, the story from Genesis: 
On that night I shall pass through the land of Egypt and kill every first born of man and beast...As for you, the blood will be a sign on the houses in which you are: when I see the blood, I will pass over you; the mortal blow will not touch you, when I strike the land of Egypt... 
There is a level of violence in the Biblical narrative--lambs slaughtered, children done in, and later, Christ's blood spilt in the sacrifice of the new Passover--that makes the original video adventures of Frank Nitti seem, by contrast, as comforting as the tales of Mrs. Wiggs in her Cabbage Patch. I hadn't realized how conducive to night-spooks in the nursery the Passion-story is until Holy Thursday and Good Friday when I stood among the mun­chkins, with Bible in hand, explaining the Passover ritual to children whose religious nurture has largely depended on the image of gentle Jesus, meek and mild. 
Even for munchkins, the Passover is an event relevant to an understanding of the Last Supper, when the Lord celebrated the feast day with his friends; moreover, the sacrificial images of the Passover are frequently used in the New Testament as metaphors explaining the crucifixion of Christ. The difficulty is, we realy don't want the children to know that the triumph of Israel involved great sorrow in the family life of Egypt. If we must mention death to the munchkins, we don't want them fearing God as a murdering bully Who strikes down toddlers as they slumber in their bulrush cradles. 
So, in telling the story of the Passover, I covered up for God. I spoke of death not as His punishment but as His enemy from whom He shielded the Hebrew families, and I hoped that no bright little guy would wonder if He couldn't have loved the Egyptian first-borns enough to save them too. As part of the visual setting of the Liturgy, we used 
lamb-shaped cakes bought at a pastry shop, and I 
hoped that later a knife slicing through the cocoanut 
and white frosting wouldsuggestnothing to them of 
the grisly details of animal slaughter. 
As to the crucifix~on, all of us adult Catholics have 
been conditioned to be unrealistic about the events 
of that brutal Friday, stylized antiseptic 
crucifixes, jeweled or lacquered, have taught us to 
live with the fact of that criminal execution without 
ever hearing the crunch of iron against bone, or 
thinking of flesh ripped on rough edges of wood, An 
adult may speak of the Chirst-death to children, but 
he blurs the details as he does so, and he bribes the 
young imaginations with the promise of the Easter 
bunny, before the horror can be faced. 
But even as we tailor the Jesus-story, with all its violence, so that it can rank with such child-culture as the Velveteen Rabbit and the Grinch Who Stole Christmas, we wonder: "Who is this God that we must cover for Him? Why must there be such violence in the life of God with man? Who is this Father Who could not spare putting His over Son to the wood of the Corss?" 
In creation itself, where God is also revealed fierceness as well as beauty is shown forth in the !if~ of the world. The earth is not entirely a ballet of birds, and saints devout before the morning sky and sunset. Under the gentle poetry of flowers, there is a level of life that is predatory and cannibal, so that some men have worried about the demonism that seems to lurk at the heart of life, and they wonder if the Creator is indifferent to the agonies of a universe that seems to have been formed out of cruelty as much as from love. 
In the end, it is always the Easter Christ Who speaks the final word: Peace! Peace! to the soldier in battle; Peace! to the child who dies and the parent who watches; Peace! to the fearful lonely and aged; Peace! to the cold and hungry 'people.' Peace! to the widows and orphans; Peace! to th~ restless dead. In the face of all the evidence to the contrary, Peace be to you from God our Father through our Lord Jesus Chirst ... 
In a single file, the young men come these days seeking the gentle ways of peace. In the name of th~ Paschal Lamb now Risen, under the covenant of the Blood of the Lamb, the letters to draft boards are 
given. 

But as we celebrate the Passover in the ghettoes of peace, it is still night in the Land of Egypt and there is weeping for the first-born who have n~t yetdied. 
Peace! 

marty teitel and dave Iammers 
" a positive and humanitarian thing" 
Mr. Marty Teitel spoke on the Notre Dame campus last week about the American Friends Service Committee medical aid center at Quang Ngai. Having recently returned from Vietnam, Mr. Teitel is now the assistant director of the Friend's rehabilitation centers in Nigeria and South Viet­nam. A graduate ofthe University of Wisconsin, Mr. Teitel has worked in Guatemala, Nigeria, and South Vietnam, and is presently working in Philadelphia for the Quakers. 
Q. At Quang Ngai, what is the cause of the legs and arms that require amputation. 
A. The major cause of injuries at our rehabilitation center is land mines, which means that most of the cases that we treat are leg injuries. That would be followed by wounding that result from bombing and gunshots, with a few napalm victims. 
Q. Since Quang Ngai is only five miles from My Lai, did you get any reactions from the civilians about the massacre. 
A. The reactions of the Vietnamese were pretty univ~rsally this: "Sure, it happened, it happens all the time." There was no great surprise, no feeling that this was an i_solated incidence. On the contrary, many suggested that this haooens all thP timP 
Q. What is the policy of forced urbanization. 

A. The basic strategy of the US is to force the peasants into the city, where they can be controlled. Its the basic strategy of guerrilla warfare, and you can go to Mao Tse Tung to find this, to control the peasants by controlling the countryside. The way that the Americans get the peasants to come into the cities is to forcibly evacuate them. This bussiness of taking of refugees, or what are called refugees, by forcibly taking them to the cities, or by making living impossible by declaring an area a 'free fire zone' by bombing or random shelling isn't really directed against the enemy. The actual 'enemy' the VC, are mobile, constantly, and hard to hit with bombs or shells. But the peasants in their homes are very anti-mobile, very stationary, very tied to their ancestral homes, and therefore very vulnerable to bombing and shelling. To my mind, this has been a quite conscious policy by the Americans in South Vietnam and in Laos. 
Defoliation relates back to this basic policy of making living in the countryside impossible, and thereby driving people into the cities, where they can be controlled. 
Q. Have these 'anti-peasant' policies resulted in a lot of peasants supporting the NLF? 
a. 
I think some, but it would be illusory to think that these policies have affected too many. The peasants don't like to get caught up in these kind of struggles--period. They don't like to be drafted by the VC any more than they like to get drafted by the ARVN, nor do they like to get attacked by one better than the other. I think in general, the peasants want to be left alone. Some ofthem have been driven into the struggle on one side or the other by different things that have happended to them, but I think you would find that number is· fairly small and the NLF would admit that quite freely. The peasants are basically apathetic and want to be left alone. 

Q. 
Do you think the opposition to the war in the US is increasing, or decreasing. 

A. 
I think that the consciousness that Americans have of the war in Indochina is increasing, and opposition is therefore increasing. On the other hand, the policy of the American government to try to convince Americans that the war is winding down is also succeeding. People perceive the war in Laos and Cambodia quite vividly, while their perception of the war in Vietnam has dwindled. I think this is partially the result of the media at­tention on these new areas. The judgement of very knowledgable people in Vietnam is that the war in Vietnam is not decreasing, particularily in the Nothern part of Vietnam. In that area the war is continuing at the same level or greater. Civilian casualties are continuing at a massive rate, and the winning of hearts of minds is not succeeding like people think. The people in this nation that are concerned about the war need to maintain their vigilance about the war in Indochina, because we're finding ourselves lulled a bit. What Nixon is doing is widening down the war. Our own program--the medical center at Quang Ngai--is suffering because of this. We have a waiting list at Quang Ngai, though '!'e acce.pt all comers. Our patient load is constantly mcreasmg. 


Q. What are the financial needs of the medical aid center. 
A. Well, because of the decreased American concern, and because of the economic depression, we are under a terrific financial burden. We see this as an opportunity for people who want to express some positive opposition to the war, some positive opposition to the spending of their taxes by the government for destruction. We quite actively solicit funds for the program, not only because we see it as a good program, but because we see it as an opportunity for a lot of frustrated people to channel those feelings of impotence and frustration into a positive and humanitarian ,thing. I don't think it is a valid distinction to differ between political and humanitarian work, because political and humanitarian work compliment each other. There should be a humanitarian dimension to all political work, and there will inevitably be a political dimension to humanitarian work, so that one is able to do both simultaneously. 
r;=~;;%'<'-
' 
you can still donate your 
cap & gown money 
at the campus press 
business office next to 
the Iafortune poolroom ~ 
1~:=::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:::::;::;:::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::: ;::::::::::::::::·;:;:;:;::·:·;·,·:·:··:···· 

THE OBSERVER Friday, April 23, 1971
Page 8 


Editor: 
The Refugee Aid Program warrants consideration by the students, faculty and ad­ministrators of this university. The humanitiaran effort started by the students and faculty in­volved highlights the death and suffering that takes place daily in Vietnam, and I feel it is vitally important we all stop and think about the inequities and suffering around us in the world--indeed, in our own country--today. I am joining the 600 who have signed to support the Refugee Aid Program and I am asking you to consider doing the same. In peace and friendship, 
J~>hn Q..,~J,.,-.H 
Editor: 
Not that it will make any dif­ference, but I thought the "community" would be in­terested to know that, on the weekend before this last, a highly placed well-known faculty member was picked up by the Roseland Police. This person has been charged with: 1) Public drunkenness, 2) Assaulting an officer, 3) Obscene and abusive language, and 4) Resisting arrest. As he has not yet been convicted, I hesitate to use his name. 
One might wonder, given the recent action by the University administration against Mr. Badger, why it has done nothing against this person. Certainly, he is a clear and present danger to the reputation of the University, to the reputation of its faculty, and to the reputation of scholars as a whole. In addition, he is guilty of providing a bad example to students and the public at large, and of that great bugaboo of academe--"unprofessional conduct." One might also note 



JOIN AN EXPEDITION 
The Amencan Explorers Asso 
ciation is currently recruitin~ 
applicants for salary-paid sum­
mer and fall positions with 
private and institutional·affil· 
iated expeditions to North and 
South America, Africa and the 
Far East. 
Positions are available for 
both experienced and inexperi· anced male and female student~ in all fields. Students with inter· 1tst and/or orientation in lan· guages, engineering, archeology, art, photography, teaching and all natural sciences are of special 
interest. 
To apply complete a one page 
typed resume that includes the 
following information: name, 
address, age, phone, relevan1 
work or recreational experience 
education and/or areas of specia 
interest, dates available, name(s) 
of other· students with whorr 
you wish to work, and any other 
pertinent information. 
In May your edited resume 

~ill be included in our Directory 'r.vhich will be sent to over 100 !affiliated groups, organizations 
and institutions actively ·plan­ning overseas expeditions. Send your resume with $6.00 IProcessi ng fee to: 
American Explorers Association 
P. 0. Box 13190 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101 
Kindly complete and mail 
r,tour resume no later than Ma'i 
5, 1971. 

that, insofar as alcohol is a drug, he is guilty of "drug abuse." 
The University could take action under a phrase in the Faculty Manual similar in vagueness and breadth to that in the Judicial Code, but will it? I submit it will not. As is well known in the Army, booze is the opium of the "lifers"; grass is the booze of the others. To take any action against a common drunk would be, in the last analysis, to admit the reality of some of the scenes at the "University" (actually "lifer faculty") Club. 
Jesus once challenged those without sin to cast the first stone-­the administrators are obeying this command. They may often have been drunk; they never have been stoned. Sincerely, 
A graduate student 
Editor: 

I feel obligated to correct some serious errors and-or misstatements in your article concerning the IScholastic's plans for next year (14 April), and in the editorial which followed. 
The article's author was not named, so it is impossible to fix any blame; however, I never "revealed" any information about a budgetary cut to a reporter from your staff. To quote me as such is incorrect. The magazine's budget will be less next year than it was this past year. The change is based on the existence of surplus in this year's funds, and is in no way related to the new editors' decision to go bi-weekly. The latter reflects a change in editorial and staff policy, nothing more. Further, the magazine will not "begin using cheaper paper," 
.,_ 
The worlds great sma1t car. See, drive and buy at 
Bertles Volkswagen Inc. US 31 N. 
although it will go self-cover. Again, these changes are born of experiments done this past year, not of any forced monetary cuts. 
More disturbing is the editorial that followed. Although it was clearly hastily conceived (a fact later corroborated in private by one of your staff), certain inaccurate and misleading statements cannot be excused: 1) the connection between editorial schedule changes and budgetary cuts is false, since next year's budget would adequately provide the same number of issues as this year; 2) the $25,000 figure you cited as the price The Observer could publish the magazine for was clearly arbitrary and baseless (this was also admitted later by a staff member); 3) the term used to describe our initial reaction last fall (ie., "odious") was simple melodrama: we have never cut ourselves off from the possibility of financial merger; 
4) no mention was made of The Oberser's verbal agreement to publish jointly this spring's Course Evaluation Book --an agreement that was broken hastily by your editor, an agreement that might have provided an initial opportunity for cooperation. Finally, the chivalrous character your offer was couched in may be misleading: after all, the revenue from an increased student publications fee would easily pay off the loan your publication took out this year to buy new equip­ment. 
Unfortunately, these are symptomatic: for two years, The Observer has been characterized by factual inaccuracies, misquotes, a corrections column that threatens to become a daily feature, and a leadership ap­parently more committed to 
.~··············~
* * 
* GINGISS * 
* * 
~ Formal Wear Inc. : 
* * * * 
* 
students ..,­* * 

* 
~ 


"IF YOU J;ONT SHOW UP 
* 
IN A GINGISS, TUX­*
* 
DONT BOTHER TO SHOW UP 
* 
ATALL!" •' * 

* 
1622 Mishawaka Ave. ** 


* 
So. Bend Indiana :

* 
Phone 287-5938 lt 


..-***~************• 
""<!{'~ .... 
·:~~~; 
~'7 

financial than journalistic suc­cess. The Observer "in­dependence" may be nothing more than financial: it has consistently failed to offer any perceptive and substantive criticisms of this University's fundamental and immediate problems, and has often served as nothing more than a bulletin board for the campus. The lack of a strong daily voice on this campus is an unfortunate situation. 
Respectfully, 
Steven Brion 
Editor: 

In your recent editorial entitled "The Worst," you saw fit to make reference to my abscence from the Senate floor Sunday night. This would behoove me to reply. 
Let me first say that I com­pletely agree with you in your opinion of the action taken by the Student Senate in rejecting the hall financial appropriation and would have voted for said ap­propriation had I been there. This brings us to the crux of the matter. 
The Senate meeting in question was originally scheduled for Thursday night, April 15th. However, due to an ad­ministrative mix up a quorum was not achieved, although I did attend. At this aborted gathering I was informed that the Senate's business for Sunday would consist of nominating two members to sit on the Faculty Senate, the presentation of legislation by Senator Novak of legislation to be acted upon at a later date, and the election of members to the Constitutional Review Committee. I was not 
CAC's FOLK FESTIVAL-FREE 
with Chuck & Mary Perrin, Authentically Merrywhether, 
Pat Clinton 
& 25 campus stars 
Sat., April24 2:30-5:00 outside Washington Hall (inside in case of rain) 
7: 00-? in Washington Hall 


-=--'SCAR 


FIAT 
Standard EQuip
includes:

*4 Spd Sync Trans *Radial Ply Tires *l<'ront Disk Brakes *Full Instruments 
*Stabilizer Bars F & R *Undercoating 
*4 Wheel indepen. *Heater 
Suspension *35 mpg. & more 
Call Bob Sullivan For Free Demon­Campus Rep-259-9565 stration Ride and Info 
Bill Elsey Olds Cadillac-Elkhart, Ind. 
informed that action was to be taken on the hall appropriation legislation which had previously lain dormant for three months since it had been proposed. When I mmentioned to several senators that I would not be on campus Sunday night I heard no objection and concluded that my prescense at this meeting was not crucial. It should be pointed out that this was the first meeting that I have missed all year. 
I do not know who wrote the editorial but I would imagine that the author was Stay Senator Treanor, a co-sponsor of the bill in question. If he did not write this piece, I would say that he contributed heavily to its com­position. 
My apologies to Mr. Treanor, but I would advise him in the future that if he intends to bring a piece of major legislation which he has proposed to the floor, he could at least inform the mem­bership of his intent. This could have been done when I saw him on the 15th. It would seem to me that his handling of this situation was not consumate with the proper way of efficiently passing legislation in light of the fact that myself, a Stay Senator, was left in the dark. 
Had I known, I would have been there, even though that would have meant my sacraficing a lecture on the meaning of life at Northwestern University, given by Muhammad Ali. I am sure, that most students however, given the choice between the harrangues of Treanor and the wisdom of Ali, would surely opt for the latter. 
Sincerely yours, 
Robert K. Sauer Stay Senator, 1971-72 
Friday, April 23, 1971 

THE OBSERVER 

Boggs lists alleged FBI abuses 
Calls for top level inquiry of agency 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -House Democratic leader Hale Boggs, citing a long list of alleged FBI abuses of freedom, renewed his demand for the ouster of Director 
J. Edgar Hoover yesterday and called for a top level inquiry into the agency's actions. 
The Louisiana lawmaker said the 76 year old Hoover had built the FBI into a secret police force "which threatens and places in jeopardy those rights and those liberties essential to the survival of our system." 
FBI defenders promptly protested that Boggs, in an hour long speech to the House, had failed to substantiate his earlier charge that the FBI had tapped either his phone or those of any other House or Senate members. 
"I am shocked, disgusted and nauseated by the stench of red herring in this chamber," said Rep. Lawrence J. Hogan, R. Md., who served 10 years as an FBI agent. 
Insufficient Evidence 

He said Boggs had failed to 
supply any evidence to back up 
the charge he first made on April 
5 that the FBI had tapped 
congressional phones and other 
wise conducted improper sur­
veillance against members of 
Congress. 
"He talks in a whole series of innuendoes," said Hogan. 
"Don't Mr. Hoover and the FBI have any rights? Can any member of this body come along and besmirch their reputation.?" 
Another former FBI agent, Rep. Samuel L. Devine, R. Ohio, also criticized Boggs' speech, saying he dealt in "semantics, innuendo and playing with words" in attempting to sub­stantiate his original charges. 
Boggs cited a long list of cases, dating back many years, in which lawmakers had, as he said, "had reason to believe" that their convers ations were being bugged or tapped by the FBI. 
He charged the FBI with harassment, intimidation, black­mail and "closer and closer surveillance of not only the deeds, but the words and thoughts," of the American people generally. 
He said Congress had allowed the FBI to outreach control of its presumed masters in the Justice Department. Now, he said, it was time for a presidential com­mission "to go to the cor of this cancer and remove it before the poison spreads further." 
Phone Tapped 

His own home telephone was tapped, Boggs, declared, im-. plying without specifically 
,.ging that the tap was applied 
There will be an art 

exhibit in the lobby of 
Augusta Hall on Sunday, 
April 25 from 2 pm to 4 pm 
and from 7 pm to 9 pm. The 
exhibit features the 
paintings of Sister M. L. 
Humbler, C.S.C., who is a 
graduate of the University 
of Notre Dame MF .F .A. 
program. 
She has taught at 

Dumbarton College in 
Washington and Cushing 
College in Boston and has 
previously exhibited her 
work in the Corcoran 
Gallery in Washington and 
the Copley Gallery in 
Boston. 
The public is invited. 
by the FBI. 
The apparent aim of Hoover's surveillance campaign, said Boggs, was not so much to seek out evidence of probably crime but to intimidate lawmakers into silence about their fears of growing FBI powers. 
He blamed Congress itself for creating this "secret police" which he said now threatens the fundatmental liberties of Americans. 
"We have permitted to come into being a power and a force within the government for which no one is accountable and of which no one is knowledgeable," said Boggs. 
Dangerous Power 
"This is a power which threatens and places in jeopardy those rights and those liberties essential to the survival of our system." 
After Boggs made his first charges on the House floor April 5, they were denied by the White House, Attorney General John N. Mitchell and the FBI itself. Moreover, many of Boggs colleagues expressed skepticism. 
Boggs told the House that it was shortly after he expressed outrage at the FBI's "seige" against the office of speaker John 
W. McCormack that he learned that he himself had been under surveillance. 
First, said Boggs, FBI agents came to the Capitol demanding records of his long distance calls for four years. When he refused, he said the agents got the records they sought from the telephone company. 
Over a period of two months, at the start of the 1970 election year, Boggs said agents went down the list of those showed to have been called in his congressional district, asking if in fact on the dates specified they had received calls from their congressman. 
Seeds of Suspicion 
"As members can well imagine, the result was to sow seeds of suspicion and to create a climate of fear in my home district," Boggs said. 
"The effect on me, I readily admit, was as intended. I said nothing before this House or any other forum. The bureau had accomplished its aim of silence simply by letting me know I was under surveillance. 
"Months later I learned of the tap which had been on my residence telephone. Again the result was intimidation that assured my silence." 
Boggs recalled that former Sen. Ralph Yarborough, D. Tex., after criticizing the FBI, "found an electronic surveillance device" in his office intercom system. 

"He said former Sen. Stephen Young, D. Ohio, after making a speech critical of the FBI, "prompltly found his telephone lines bing monitored. 
He said Sen. Joseph Montoya, 
D. N.M., engaged in a contest for re-election, had reason to believe his telephone was under sur­veillance. 
Additionally, he said Sen. Birch Bayh, D. Ind., battling the nomination of Judge Clement Haynsworth, talked in his Capitol office to a government official who, when he returned to his own office, "was advised that he was under suspicion of having ex­pressed his views to Sen. Bayh." 

Boggs 
''Today, there are members of this body so imprisoned by the climate of fear that they will not use their telephones for the conduct of normal business with constituents or fellow members." 

'Human' chess game to aid cancer society 
Senior Bob Mastro today announced that Notre Dame will hold its first "human chess game" on Friday and Saturday, May 7 and 8, on the field between the towers and the library. The chess game was originally concieved as a means of raising fundf for the American Cancer Society. 
Mastro hoped that as many clubs and organizations and self­organized teams from halls and sections as possible would participate in the tournament. As a motivation for participation there will be both prizes offered, each member of the first place team would receivie a polaroid color camera or its cash equivalent and each second place team member a case of beer or its cash equivalent. An additional rotating trophy will be awarded to the winner each year. 
The Tournament, as presently planned, will be a regular elimination tournament. Each team consists of eighteen men each person representing a piece on the board with two persons designated as the 
movers.  Identification will be provided by the  tournament  coor­ 
dinators,  Bob  Mastro,  Jim  Potosnach,  Maureen  O'Grady,  Beth  
Weimer.  

The two sets of team movers will be provided with stands on ad­jacent sides of the field-board on which to keep track of moves. Rules will be given to teams upon registration as to time limits for moves and specific game rules. 
There will be tournament fee of 20 cents per person. In the event that a club team (s) registers, any amount over the specified entry fee will be accepted as a private donation to the American Cancer Society with suitable recept in their name. The 20 cents player fee will go toward covering expenses of running the game. Three bands will entertain intermittently. 
First and second place prizes will be presented Saturday at 3:30 
p.m. under the statue of Moses in front of the Library. For information call Bob Mastro, 1681, Jim Potosnah, 1655, or Maureen O'Grady, 4285. 
Do you desire to live off-campus? Now taking reservations for Sept. 1, 
1971. Nine month lease, accomodations for four or five to an 1partment. 
Page9 
BAGGAGE TRUCK Wash.-Md.-V. Club FOR INFORMATION & sign ups Call Bob Mastro 1681 
GRADUATING MEN AND WOMEN I 

Check Your Education 
e Agriculture degree or 
experience e 3 year degree or B.S. in Nursing 
e B.A. in English plus 
a foreign language e Degree in primary or secondary ed, able to teach math or science 
e Civil Engineering degree 
e Forestry or Fisheries degre or experience e Math or science degree or 
emphasis 
e Urban planning or architecture degree e Liberal Arts major with 
summer experience in construction, health or mechanics. 
Then Check the Peace Corps 
7,000 American Voluntee'rs, most of them just out of college. Black and white. With the kinds of educations listed above. Working hard in 180 languages to help people in 60 countries help themselves. 
That's the Peace Corps. You . 
can be part of it. Contact your local Peace Corps office or send in the coupon. Today. 
r-------------~ 
I 
ITHE PEACE CORPS 
I 
1Washington, D. C. 20525 I 
ITell me more about the opportunities 1I in the Peace Corps for graduating 11college men and women. I 
I I'd be available for service in the I Inext 6-12 months 0 YES 0 NOI 0 MARRIED 0 SINGLE I 
I I I I 
INAME 
I 
I 
I I ADDRESS 
I I I 
'CITY I 
I II 
:STATE ZIP 
,______________J 
Tuesday, May 11 
8: 30 in the ACC Tickets $5.50, 4.50, 2.50 
Sales start Tuesday at 4:00pm in the Fiesta Lounge 
Noh D•,... AYe. Apts.800 lllodc N.D.A. 

Pltoae Mr. Zlnn · 23418t7 
Pa e 10 THE OBSERVER Friday April 23, 1971 
THE ROMAN OBSERVER TO THE NOTRE DAME OBSERVER 
pOPE pAUL SPEAKS TO NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
Will You Listen To Him 
L'Osservatore Romano, April 15, 1971 I speak to you, young people, es­
.pecially. Will you li~ten to me? \Ve propose a discourse, a brief shar­ing of ideas. Why are you. here this morning? WM have you been invited? Becau:;~ h is Palm Sunday! 
And what reason does Palm Sun· day give for inviting young people to a Mass of the Pope, celebrated for them? The reason is provided by the fact that today the Church celebrates the memory of a gospel event which is well known to us: the solemn entry of Jesus to Jeru­salem, seated upon a donkey, ac­claimed by his disciples in the midst of an enormous crowd of people. Who so many peopk? Because it was close to the great feast of the Hebrews and people came from all nations, from all the tribes, and gathered in the Capital City where the Temple was situated. 
You know the name they had for this great feast: it was called the Pasch. And what its significance was? It had a commemorative sig­nificance. Its purpose was to recall -notice carefully-the liberation of the Hebrew Pecple from the yoke of slavery, under which they had lived for so many years and from which they had escaped to conquer their homeland. And so the feast also had a· prophetic significance. It was a feast that looked also to­wards the future; and what did it expect from the future? It expected a chief, a guide, a master; it ex­pected the man of hope, it expected a Saviour. He was to be a descend­ant of David, the king who had given the people their civil structures together with and alongside of their religious vocation as the Hebrew Peo­ple. They expected the Messiah, that is to say, the man consecrated by God: the Priest, the King, the Prophet, the "servant of God", the Son of Man, through whom, and in whom would be concentrated, the direction, the salvation, the great­ness, the victory of the nation and of all humanity. 


Fantasy had made much of this conception of a mysterious, prodi­gious and out~Lmding figut e. The fact is, and this is gospel history, that when Jesus began to preach the "kingdom of God" and to work miracles, the opinion, first, andthen the cerlaintv, that he was. the.../Mes­siah, spread· widely. And Je;;ut-~ who had never wished to surroqntl him­self with external glory, wbhing ex­clusively to proclaim the kin~om of God and not an earthly pblitical reign, ultimately is presented, h~mbly indeed, but clearly to all of the peo­ple, as the true Me5siah. 
And thus it was, the deaf and 

proud opposition  of the  Jewish  au­ 
thorities  notwithstanding,  how  he  
was  acclaimed  for  that  which  he  

was, the "Son of David". the awaited one, the Messiah, the one who "'ould inaugurate the new kingdom of God. the Liberator, the S~tviour. You know how things went: afta five days Jesus was arrested, tried, crucified;. but on the third day he rose; it is the new kingdom, Christianity, the Church, the Divine Life com­municated to those who believe. which in time, mysteriously,-i1nd then

1 

beyond iime, has been inaugurated ;and founded, gloriously and etc~·· nally. 
You will ask: where precisely does 1youth enter into this? Well and ·good, first of all, let us try to under­stand that we are dealing here with a central and decisive event, so ex­traordinary that it involves the whole of humanity, all men both as in­dividuals and in society; all and at the deepest level. 
Now there is an important cir­cumstance to be noted in the event which we arc commemorating and it is this. All of that great ·crowd ac­, claimed Jesus that day as Messiah, cutting the branches from the trees­look at the palms around us-to eel­, ebrate Him who come in the name of the Lord. And who created the great­est uproar? Who cried out the loud­est and with greatest enthusiasm at this solemn moment? It was the youth. They indeed recognized Jesus ami quoting a Psalm gave a prophetic note to the voices of the children, 
taking  their part against  those  who  
wished  them  to  remain  silent  (cf.  
1\1 att.  21 ,  15-1 t.i) .  

1
1 .0 be a Christian 
Notice how the voice of the young h<1d its vita!' importance in the rec­ognizing of Jesus as Messiah, as Christ, as Master and Saviour of the world. 
And it is for this reason that young people arc invited to participate in the litmgical ceremony which recalls this gospel event? Yes, but not for purely ceremonial and commem­orative reasons, but for a very special reason precisely for you, the young generation of today. And it is that you might make, as did those of the gospel scene, your choice. 
What choice? That of Christ. Listen carefully. Christ has already chosen you. You are already Chris­tian. But what type of Christian? 
To be a Christian is no small thing; it is to be alreaJ~' part and parcel of the history or salvation; it is to have already a cotH:eption of the world, and of our existence, of past history and of future des­tinies; it is to already have a bind­ing programme of life, that is to believe, to work. to hope. to love. And so indeed, I repeat. what kind of Christian are you? The point is not, how do many other Chris­tians behave, but rather each must look to himself, to his own behav­iour. See, there are many different types of behaviour among the young with respect to Christian living. Let us make a summary classification. 
There is a first category of Chris­tians, those who hardly without thinking about it, choose the "zero" 
kvcl. "Zero" is what we call that behaviour which gives no weight, no importance, to the fact of being a Christian. It is a behaviour in whil:h the Christian character means nothing. This uoes not happen in the mission countries: there a Chris­tian is a Christian, and he has to live in a certain manner with a cer­tain style which distinguishes him. Among us, however, if often happ.:ns that to be a Christian means noth­ing, zero. And so often a Christian is a living contradiction, because· he contradicts by his very own way of thinking and of living, that great prerogative of his: to be a son of God, to be a brother of Christ. to be a shining light in whom burns the Holy Spirit, grace, to be a mcrn­ber of the Church, a man who knows , how he should live and where he 
. should be going. A Christian is a logical, coherent, responsible, free, and at the same time, faithful man. Not a zero man, indifferent, insig­nificant, unconscious, with his hend in a sack. <\r~ we agreed? 


J1 ree(l 
. [?
l1l the U'Ul( • 
There is a second category and is that which the gospel calls men of "reeds". of the reeds which are shaken by the \Vi nels (cf. Matt. 11, 
7). Reeds whkh bend Wh1c11ever way the wind blows. Men with­out th.:ir own personality, without that Christian sense of direction of which we have spoken. Men too ready to fall in with the ideas of others, ready to bow to the sway of public opinion, of fashion, of in­terest; men of f(ar, men of human respects, sheep-nh:n. Too much, in­deed, is this phenomenon diffused among men. ·\nd it can be ex­plained: they w•:nt to appear strong and independent toward~ the milieu which they kno\\, the family, the society, seeing its defects and feeling themselves to be und..:r its yoke, and seeking to liberate themselves, to re­lease thetmclves, become contcst­atory, n:volutionmy, demanding. But then. where? They flock with those who play around and follow the passing fashions, becoming a medi­ocre crowrl. without their O\A!Il valuco; or me:ming, content to substitute in­stead fantasy anJ false heroism. Per­haps you yourselves know some youngskrs who have "dropped out", who bend like "reeds". 
But the moment comes in which it i~ necessary to be a "person", that i~. men who live according to given principles, according to car­dinal ideas, according tq enlightened ideas, :recording to ideas of some 
. strength. Men \\·ho have made their choice. and :1ccording to this choice thcv .valk and live. And this is the. c•ne e<1tegory wonhy of intelligent and Chrbtian youth. Your<. de<~r sum and friends! 

Hear  this: can  one  live  without  
principles?  The  question  may  be  
put  in  this  way.  can  one  walk  in  

'1 1rkness? And how many people walk in darkness. I want to believe that you are !ntelligent enough to compr..:hend, to understand, that our life is full of obscurity, of doubt, of mystery. It is more like night than day. Many things arc !!linwsed, so many beautiftll thir-gs; butit is properly that \\'hich we-kno~ also' by study, science and practicewhich gives one this imprcs~ion, the ex­perience of being in a nocturnal. doubtful, ignorant, secret, mut.: world, perhaps inimical, perhaps vain. perhaps senseles~ 

r_l,he
... true liglzt 
And then: the light c·un11.:s. A li?.ht fur life. The true light. 1-k \\ hu has said: "1 am the light of the world" (cf. Jn. 8. 12; 11, 46, anu t, 5, 9. 13. F)). And Jesus, who at the momem -L~f h;.; -entry into Jerusalem was publicy recog­ni7L'd by the crowd as the Christ, that is, as Messiah. That J'vtessiah which the young one present ac­cl;·;Pled as the true Prophet of his­tory. as the Envcy of God, as the Shepherd of the human race, as the unique and good Mu.ster of the high­est truth, as the Founder of the ing­dolll of the hca·,cns. as the SavioL7r of the world. 
You understand? Two conclu­~ion~ then. You also, young people, boy~ and girls, here present, ought to recognize in fesus Christ the true spiritual guide of your life. We \vould say today the moral "leaderp of our times. Lift up your palms, your olive branches of peace to Him, and cry to Him-"Hosanna, live! We choose you, Jesus Christ!". 
.\nd now ano,her conclusion: re­member it is up to you. sons of this new generation, to make Him in turn recognized in you, to our .modern wprld. so m.uch in need ancl deserving of t-tl:re light, to our own Rome, its very c...wn true Christ. its Tvlessiah, Jtsus! It is up to you, ~ oung people of today. to renew the prodigious Mc,~wnism initiatd hy the Catholic youth of ye5tcrday. and develop it for today; that is, the passage from a routine ;mJ passive Christianity to a ChristianitY that is C<•nsl'ious 'and .1ctiw: the. passage from a timid and inept Christianity to a Christianity that is courageous and militant; from an indiv!dual and private Christianity to a Christianity of community and fellowship, from an indifferent Christianity that is in­sensitive to the needs of others and our social duties to a Christianity that i~ fraternal and is pledged to the favour of those who are weak­c<t and those who·ate most in need. 
Courag1,! It is up to you! With Our :1ffcctionatc Apostolic Bk:ssir>· 
Advertisement paid for by John T. Balfe '20 
Friday, April 23, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 11 
DiNardo, Kos must be replaced 
by Jim Donaldson Observer Sports Editor 
Back in the days when a legend named Rockne was directing the football practices at Cartier Field he had four chaps by the name of Miller, Layden, Crowley and Stuhldreher in the same back­field. That quartet had gained some measure of renown in the national press for their exploits on the gridiron and, midway through the Fall of 1924, their leather helmets were starting to get a bit tight on their heads. Rockne deemed the time ripe to bring his stars back to reality. 
The offensive line on that '24 team was one of the best in the country. Known as the "Seven Mules", the forward wall con­sistently opened gaping holes for the "Four Horsemen" but the publicity the linemen received for their efforts was hardly equal to that bestowed on the backfield phenoms. 
At any rate, Rockne sent his Four Horsemen into a game that season behind the third string line and, in several attempts, they were unable to make a first down. His point made, Rockne put the Seven Mules into the game and Notre Dame went on to make a large number of points, though not of moral nature. 
Rockne proved, as any student of the pigskin sport knows, that no matter how good the running back, he's not going anywhere if the hole doesn't open. And, to tie in all this nostalgia and moralizing with the present day, the 1971 Fighting Irish gridders, playing without an established quarterback, will probably be running more next season than they have during the past few campaigns. With the departure of outstanding seniors Larry 

.---------------------------replace those two players," 
JIM MURRAY 




Purely Coincidental 

•© 1971, Los Angeles Times 
Some friends of mine in the broadcast industry have brought out a book titled "Voice of Sport." It is largely a catch-all chronical of How­I-Lost-The-1966-0pen-With-Arnold-Palmer, or, How-I-8tayed-On-Top­Of-The-Inaction-In-The-World-Series, and interesting as far it goes. 
But I would like to see a book about interviews, descriptions or other accounts as you might wish they could be, stripped of the poached-egg approach of today's telecast, where even the most hard-bitten and hacksaw-tongued athlete in the world comes off like a kid reciting poetry in the parlor. 
I would like to see the bland halftime interview at basketball playoffs take on less of a fraudulent hue as when announcer Marty Meringue is interviewing Freddy Freethrow, Freddy's team is 80 buckets behind, and is not even a cinch to be able to turn on the shower properly, but protocol calls for optimism to be the order of the day. The dialogue will go something like this: "Well, Marty, I realize things look critical and I must find some way to neutralize their center, Skyscraper Sadowski's two-foot height advantage, 300-pound weight advantage." At this point, I would like Intrepid Announcer to wonder what form that strategy will take and to have the athlete answer in­nocently, "Why, I'll just have to go in the dressing room and grow 10 inches." 
Similarly, I would like to revamp the pre-game World Series in­terview where the poor announcer, Joe Brickhead, is asked to in­terview Whisher White who is to face Sandy Seedthrower in the game that afternoon, a pitcher against whom his lifetime average cannot be seen with the naked eye. The accepted form is for out-matched hitter to face his impending humiliation with bravery and determination. "One of these days he'll make a mistake against me and I'll jump on it," he's supposed to prophesy. 
Truth is not on the squad, or the Whisher might instead spit a stream of tobacco juice on the announcer's blue suede shoes, utter an oath, and say, "Lissen, Dummy, Sandy's pitch has been clocked at a 110 m.p.h.--and that's only his changeup. There is no way I can get my bat on anything going 110 m.p.h. through a 60 foot zone. There is no way I can get a bucket of seed on it. There are some nights I have to ask the umpire whether he's thrown the ball yet. My swing has been clocked at 9 m.p.h., and there is no way in the world I can hit anything Sandy throws. My only interest is in making sure anything Sandy throws doesn't hit me." 
There is also this dream I have of an announcing team trying to keep the patrons from falling asleep at a description of a particularly drab Big 10 football game some fall and have one of them turn to the other and say, "Now, a word from the Gallopinng Goose. Gallops, old buddy, do you think Michigan can come back this half?" And have old Gallops shrug, "Who cares? I got the binoculars on this terrific broad in a mini down in Section F who has just gone out for a hotdog. That's the comeback I'm waiting for. As far as this game is concerned, they should bottle it as a sedative." 
Finally, I would like to hear an off-the-cuff, no-cue-cards interview with old Harry Holler, the guy who does every game in the tone of voice of a guy screaming for help from the top of a burning building. "Do I think the game will be exciting tomorrow? No. But who cares? I can take 90 minutes of test patterns and make them sound like World War III. I can produce cardiac arrest in 20 per cent of the audience just doing batting practice. I can make calisthenics sound like a goal-line stand with 30 seconds to play. I once did a fight which looked like the lOoth day of a marathon dance, but, when I got through with it, it made Dempsey-Firpo look like a debate. Whenever the action drags, I like to say hello to all my friends in Buckingham Palace, to J. Paul Getty, the King of Morocco, or, just got a cute wire here from Pat Nixon, and our thanks to Ted Kennedy, Thursday sounds fine, only next time, my place, okay? Congratulations are certainly in order for my old friend, the Pope." 
In other words, any resemblance to real incidents living or dead is purely coincidental, and it's not who won or lost but how you called the game, and the views expressed are not necessarily those of management or anyone else, and parts of these broadcasts were pre­recorded in the imagination of the announcers, and rebroadcast prohibited anywhere without expressed written consent of Mother Goose. 
DiNardo, a two-time concensus the strongest possible com­All-American, and dependable bination. (and also very underrated) Gary "We should be able to come up Kos from the guard spots, the with some more than capable Irish face a rebuilding job in the people to do the job for us," forward wall. Moore said. 
Jim Humbert, a junior with 185 At present, guard is minutes of phying time, has the most experience among the candidates for the opening left by DiNardo and Kos. Denny DePremio, a letterman, is also a frontrunner for a starting guard berth, as is junior, Tim Zuber. Frank Pomarico appears to be the top freshman prospect,· although he has been hampered with an injury this Spring, and Tom Bolger is another likely looking frosh. 
Offensive line coach Wally Moore commented earlier in the week on the difficulty of replacing two players as talented as Kos and DiNardo. 
"It'll be a great problem to 


Moore said. "They had three years of experience." 
"A new man has to learn his job," Moore continued. "We do what we can to give them the background needed but ex­perience is the best teacher." 
Coach Moore has been ex­
perimenting with sophomore
John Kondk, a letter winner at tackle last season, at the right guard spot in an attempt to find 

Weekend sports action 


Notre Dame, Ind.---Notre Dame's baseball team, at­tempting to shake an early jinx that has produced six one run defeats, will entertain the 
nation's  fifth  ranked  collegiate  
nine,  Ohio  University,  this  
weekend.  

Single games are scheduled for both Friday(3 pm) and Saturday(2pm) as the youthful Irish will attempt to climb near the .500 plateau. 
Notre Dame dropped two of three decisions at Toledo last weekend, increasing its losing streak to six, before freshman right-hander Jim Noe(2-0) registered a 5-2 victory. The Irish won their second straight, 4-2 over Valpo, on Tuesday. The Irish have a 7-10 record to date. 
"We're not producing the necessary hitting in key situations with men on base," said veteran Irish Coach Jake Kline, who indicated that he was pleased with the pitching efforts in recent games. 
The Irish have just one regular, second baseman Bill Schoen, hitting over .300, but veterans Phril Krill, Chuck Horan, and Bob Roemer have given in­dications of breaking out of hitting slumps. 
Kline will probably start senior right-hander Bill Schmitz and Sophmore Mike Riddell against the Bobcats. Schmitz and Riddell have a combined 2-7 record but have registered 3.09 and 2.54 ERA marks. Noe who gained a 5­2 win over Toledo is also a possible starter. 
The Bobcats, 14-3 overall, captured their third straight Mid­American Conference title last year and finished fourth in the College World Series. Ohio won 11 of its first 12 games this year before losing two of three last weekend at powerful Western Michigan. 
Veteran Ohio coach Bob Wren has two first team All-Americans returning from a club that led the nation in hitting a year agoC.320)­First baseman Mike Hannah and shortstop Mike Schmidt. The Ohio University pitching staff has a combined ERA this spring of 1.78. 
Coach Jake Kline 
Rugby 
The Irish rugby club plays its only home match of the Spring this weekend, taking on the ruggers from Palmer Chiropractic of Davenport, Iowa, Sunday, behind Stepan Center. 
This is always the BIG match of the season for Notre Dame and this Saturday's encounter has all the ingredients for a great battle. The Palmer ruggers handed the Irish their only setback of the Fall campaign and the Irish would like nothing better than to avenge that loss. 
The "B" game will begin at 1:3­
1:30 and the "A" game will follow immediately thereafter. 


Lacrosse 
TheN .D.lacrosse team, hoping to bounce back after two straight losses, will trv and regain their 
wmning form Sunday against the Chicago lacrosse team in Chicago. The Irish stickmen are 4-2 this season. 
The Irish "B'' team will be at home this weekend·, however. 

again be hiking the ball for the Irish in '71. Dave Drew, .last year's No.2 man also returns and freshman Joe Alvarado is con­sidered to be "a fine, young prospect" by coach Moore. 
Junior tackle John Dampeer logged more minutes (331) than any other returning player and does an outstanding job of blocking. Kondrk, if he isn't switched to guard, figures to be Dampeer's running mate. 
Sophomore Herb Briick and freshmen Mark Brenneman and Mike McBride have also been handling themselves well in Spring drills. 
Tight end could be considered the strong point of the offensive line. Two lettermen, sophomores Mike Creaney and John Tereschuk, make the tight end position a solid one for N.D. Freshman Dave Casper has looked good, too. 
Taking an overall view of the prospects for next Fall, coach Moore said, "Our young players need work but with Novakov, Kondrk, Dampeer and Creaney we have some very fine players at key positions. We'll have more overall experience next season than we did this year and I expect to have a strong offensive line in '71." 
Knox College, beaten 8-2 last weekend by the Notre Dame "B" squad will try to avenge that loss in a 2 p.m. contest Saturday behind Stepan Center. 

Tennis 
The Irish tennis team, which has racked up an impressive 7-1 record since returning from a Spring trip to California, faces a busy weekend. 
Coach Tom Fallon's netmen will host Northern Illinois Friday at 3 p.m., then play two matches on both Saturday and Sunday. 
Bowling Green State U. takes on the Irish Saturday at 9 a.m. while Toledo U. will provide the opposition for N.D. Saturday afternoon at 1. 
Big Ten power Iowa will invade the Irish courts Sunday at 10 a.m. and the Notre Dame netmen will wrap up their hectic weekend with a 1 p.m. match against Marquette. 
SMC hoop playoffs 
Led by the high scoring Bo Batterrott the "Whites" defeated the "Blues" 35-22 last night at SMC's Angela Hall to earn the right to play in the annual An Tostal basketball game. 
Playing under standard basketball rules, the girls won three games in as many days to capture the SMC An Tostal playoffs. 
The winning team, comprised of Sue Mogab, Bo Batterrott, Jackie Leskovec, Claudia Garland and Kathy Schoien­dienst, will take on Sid Catlett, Doug Gemmell, Tom Sinnott, John Egart, Jim Regelean and other campus jocks next Thur­sday afternoon at 3:30 behind the bookstore. 
Members of the losing team 
were Beth Culligan, Teeta Bliley, 
Lydia Haggar. Melinda Malone, 
Daisy Duckworth, Mary Beth 
Mulcahey, Marilyn Mohrman -· 
and Sheila Culligan. 
Page 12 THE OBSERVER Friday, April 23, 1971 







