

Vol. V No. 74 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint MaT)' 's College t'ommuniO' T!Jesday, February 9, 1971 
HPC passes co-education proposal 
General Assembly and co-ed committee next for proposal 
by Bob Higgins 

The fourteen Presidents in attendance at last night's Hall 
Presidents Council meeting unanimously endorsed a Co-education 
proposal drawn up by Chairman John Barkett, St. Edward's 
President Bob Weaver, and Farley Hall President Rich Anderson. The 
proposal, pending approval by the six absent Presidents and the five 
Hall Presidents at St. Mary's will be presented as the HPC's official 
proposal to the General Assambly and the ND-SMC co-education 
coordinating committee which will meet Saturday. 
In criticism of the recent ------------­Park-Mayhew report the Presi­
the tiPC needed to take action dents stated that, "We feel the 
immediately. The HPC proposal sees two
consultants wrote the report trying not to offend the adminis­

courses of action for Notre trations of our two schools, and, 
Dame after SMC makes its own independent decision concerning in doing so, failed in their pri­co-education. The report statesmary responsibility: explicitly that "if St. Mary's Board decides stating these facts that neither 
against merger, Notre Dame's
school wished to face, but must 

Trustees can either a) decide to
face if co-education is to be a WASHINGTON UPI -The 
go co-ed anyway if they feel S.t.
reality." The Council felt, how­U.S. supposed incursion by the 
Mary's will not change its stand
ever, that the report was not South Vietnamese into Laos 
within two years or, b) decide to
without merit, citing the id~a of brought renewed demands Mon­
wait until St. Mary's has a
'"'A Saint Mary's College in the day that Congress tighten its
change of heart if Notre Dame's 
restrictions on U.S. activity in
Trustees feel it may come in one 
Indochina.
COMPLETE T£XT 0~ HPC 

or two years." Commenting fur­
Chairman J. William Fulbright
STATEMENT ON PAGE 2 

ther on the second of these 
of the Senate Foreign Relations
options, the Council stated "If 
Committee, a war critic, said "itUniversity of Notre Dame" as a Notre Dame waits upon St. 
would be logical to go on fartherspecific example of its insight. Mary's, both boards would be north" and invade North Viet­FeF:ling that the report was guilty of gross negligence in their nam if the Laos incursion failed. 
lacking in many respects the roles of 'running' their respective He called Secretary of StatePresidents proposed a few dra­institutions. They would be ig­William P. Rogers to testify at amatic changes including " ...co~d noring sound economic sense closed meeting of his committee housing on both campuses, the (especially in St. Mary's case) Tuesday morning. Rogers wasopportunity for women to re­and the chance to provide expected to be questioned aboutceive their undergraduate degree greater educational resources to his failure to tell the committeedirectly from Notre Dame, and a both institutions. They would be of the impending Laos operation committment to reduce the ratio perpetuating the outmoded and at his last appearance Jan. 28. 
of men to women to 2-1 as soon unreal existence of an all-male 
as possible." university and an all-female col­The White Ho\L<;e indicated 
In explanation of the sudden­lege. Most importantly, they Monday the basic decision to go 
ness of the proposal Chairman would demonstrate quite dra­into Laos was made before Jan. 
Barkett explained that time, matically the great distance be­28 and that it had been dis­
with respect to co-education was tween them and the students, cuslled for some time before 
running out. With Saint Mary's faculty, and administrators they that. 
and Notre Dame planning to serve and, expecially, their un-The administration, which 
decide on the issue within a said the South Vietnamese in­
(Continued on page 8)
month, Barkett emphasized that vasion was "consistent with 

Area peace group to hold rally protesting 
the invasion of Laos 
opening shot. We're working to­
by Fred Schaefer 

wards spring." 
He also announced that a 
N SA co -or dina tor Steve meeting will be held on Thurs­
Novak announced yesterday day night for "organizational 
plans for a rally to be held purposes" for upcoming activi­Wednesday at 12:30 protesting ties in the spring. 

the invasion of Laos. He said He said, "We have a goodthat he expects to hold the rally chance of achieving a lot in the 

on the steps of the 

spring. One of the problems weAdministration building. 
face is that people are no longerThe Indiana Caucus of Stu­shocked by an invasion. Thedent and Youth Conference on people who are prisoners of warPeople's Peace called the rally, are not only those who get shot­which will be one of many held down in a plane. The wholesimultaneously on campuses Steve Novak country is a prisoner of war."
throughout the state. 

Novak's long range plansIn addition to protesting the not sure exactly who, yet. He include an attempt to get the war, the Peoples' Peace Treaty explains "We're in the broad Peoples' Peace Treaty on thewill be presented to the student organizational stages right now." 
body at the rally. Novak ex­He went on,"I see this as a ballot for spring elections. He 
said, "This would be easier to do
first step. The anti-war move­
plained, "The Peoples' Peace at other schools. I'm not sure if

ment has been dormant around
Treaty was negotiated between it could be passed here." If these

here for a long time. Meanwhile, 
IS student government types plans fall through, he said he

the war is getting worse." 
from both the United States and "might try sending it around as a

"I hope for something similar 
South Vietnam and the people 

in Hanoi. We are going to try for to last spring, on a broader scale. petition and getting people to 
We have to build continuous sign it." 
some sort of ratification later on He also hopes to "reach the

pre~sure. I hope for a large turn-
this year." 

people in town" with the treaty
. out, but I won't be disappointed 
Novak "expects" campus sometime after Easter.

if I don't get one. This is just the
people to talk at the rally, but is international law," had its sup­porters in Congress, who said the operation was necessary for the protection of U.S. troops. 


The State Department said in a statement: "The principal new factor is the South Vietnamese forces will move in against the enemy on the ground to deny him sanctuaries and to disrupt the main· artery of supplies he has been able to use so effective­ly against the American and South Vietnamese forces in the past." 
The Democratic leader in the House, Speaker Carl Albert of Oklahoma, said he had been advised the U.S. action in the ooeration was limited to logistic. and air support. "If that is true I· 
tnmk it is a prudent action on the part of our government." 
. Senate Democratic Leader 
Mike Mansfield called the cross­
over into Laos "a deepening of 
the tragedy and an extensioJ;J. of 
the war. If it doesn't succeed, 
it's .quite possible it might bring 
about a reversal of the withdraw­
al policy." 
House Republican Leader 

Gerald R. Ford of Michigan, said 
the incursion "will open the 
door to accelerated withdrawal 
of American troops from Viet­
nam." He also said the action "is 
within the spirit as well as the 
letter of the Cooper Church 
amendment" which forbids an 
incursion into Cambodia. 
Huclclle lowers its prices ol Wrigley's Gum 
Mr. Edmund T. Price, director 
of Food Service, announced"to­
day that he was lowering the 
cost of Wrigley's five~tick gum 
in the Huddle to five cents. He 
cited an article in yesterday's 
Observer as the reason for the 
decrease in price. 
ln that article, it was reported 
that the Huddle was charging 
seven cents for all brands of 
gum, even though the Wm. Wrig­
ley Jr. Co. !lld not increased its 
wholesale prices along with its 
competitors. 
Mr. Price admitted that this 
policy of the Food Se.rvice was 
wrong, and as a result, he de­
cided to correct it. He also made 
it known that every brand of 
gum is only five cents in vending 
machines. 
Rules clelinecl lor Assembly ol Students 
by T. C. Treanor 

General Assembly of Students 
St•~ering Committee head Bob 
Meyers announced last night 
that his com,!l1ittee has made 
"considerable innovations" on 
the Assembly rules. 

The Committee, composed of seven undergraduate students from Notre Dame and two from St. Mary's, has rewritten sections dealing with limitation of de­bate. Although the original rules provided for a number of possi­ble contingencies arising from debate, the new version states that questions about the rele­vance of debate will be answered from the Chair. 

Bob Meyers 

"The old rules were over­written," Meyers said in an inter­view after his announcement. "They provided a good ground­work, but we didn't think the students would be able to under­stand." In addition, Meyers indi­cated that the move was made to give Assembly Chairman and Student Body President Dave Krashna a freer hand. 
"It's really Dave's assembly in a lot of ways," Meyers said. "He's trying to get a sense of where Student Government is going and what student opinion is." 
Other than the changes in chair ruling, the rules remain substantially the same. Proposals for the Assembly must be brought to the Student Govern­ment Office before twelve AM, Saturday Morning; proposals "might be accepted as late as Sunday," said Meyers. 
Under the rules, which require a quorum of five hundred, de­bate is limited to five minutes per speaker. The Assembly will otherwise follow Robert's Rules of Order Modified, while in de­bate. A complete text of the rules will appear in Monday's 
Observer. 

According to Meyers, Student 
(Continued on page 8) 
TUTORS NEEDED 
Tutors are needed for the Nei!tJborhood Study Help Pro· gram on Monday and Wednesday afternoons between 1 and 2: 20 pm. Call Mike Heisler at 283·79!n 

ABA favors relaxing wiretap rules 

CHICAGO (UPI) The not tap wires. federal legislation in that they American Bar Association yes­The standards, adopted by the approve a wiretap for an initial terday adopted standards on ABA's policy making House of period of 15 days with 30 day wiretaps which may lead to Delegates, approve wiretap with­extensions as needed in the wider state participation in elec­out any court order ''to protect court's judgment. Federal stan­tronic surveillance. military or other national securi­dards provide for a 30 day initial 
The standards, including wire­ty information against foreign time period with 30 day exten­tap without prior court order in intelligence activities." The evi­sions as approved by the court. certain cases, closely parallel dence obtained may be used in The House of Delegates de­
federal standards outlined in the court. feated several amendments pro­1968 omnibus crime control and Another provision would al­posed by the ABA's Criminal safe street act. low emergency wiretaps to be Law Council which would have 
The ABA will urge state legis­obtained in domestic cases with­imposed tighter restraints on latures to adopt the standards so out prior court order. Those wiretapping than those found in that wiretap will be available to cases would be limited to "con­the federal provisions. state attorneys general. spiratorial activities" involving The defeated amendments 
Under the 1968 crime control national security and organized would have made electronic sur­act only states which adopt wire­crime. It would be necessary in 
veillance evidence obtained with­tap legislation at least as strict as those cases to obtain a court out prior court order inadmissi­federal standards may practice order for the surveillance within ble in any trial and would have surveillance. Twelve states have 48 hours after the wiretap had limited surveillance to an initial such legislation and four are begun. period of five days with one five considering it. Other states may The standards differ from day extension. 
Pick acoiuitry an improve it. 
Picture yourself in another land. is so vital today; an understanding You are here to help the people and that is perhaps best described as improve their country. It is the type love. of work that draws out the very best It takes a special type of man to in you because it involves you so do this work. He must be intelligent deeply in their lives. of mind and heart. This is the kind 
You will teach and be your own of man who is a Maryknoll Mis­best student. You will build a better sioner. Perhaps you are that kind of society for them and experience the man. satisfaction that only comes with If so, you can improve the coun­this genuine sense of accomplish­try of your choice as a Maryknoll ment. You will improve yourself as priest or brother. well as others. You will create the Write to us. We'll tell you more. understanding between cultures that Just fil.J out the coupon below. 
If you keep saying you want to do something with your life-here's your chance to prove it. 
r For information, write to A I
--------------..
VOCATION DIRECTOR I 
Maryknoll Missioners, Maryknoll, N.Y. 10545 I 
Dear Father:I Please send me information about becoming a I Maryknoll Priest 0 Brother 0 Sister 0
I I 
I Name IAddress 
~~~--------------------------------------­
City State I wanted 
Age Class Zip Code 
thi h 

S C l;IDCe, .,.,;,.···-:.• · . 
I L..--.. JII 
~~-----~-~-·~--~ 
Jerome Shestock, of the tions, but it is no joke," he said. 
ABA's Individual Rights Com­"There is more and more intru­
mission, opposed the adopted sion into privacy. Wiretapping, 
standards. in the words of Oliver Wendell 
"We joke about 1984 condi-Ho_!_mes, is a dirtybusiness." 
State_ment by HPC 
appointment of a Coordinator of the University of Notre Dame has made highest calibre to meet the difficult the commitment to co-education. role the Park-Mayhew Report has, at 
The fact that a Park-Mayhew Report It seems apparent to us that the 
least, outlined. However, we add to now exists is but an example of this 
his duties a sense of urgency, a sense, commitment. Furthermore, it seems 
we feel, that must exist if co-educa­obvious that Notre Dame wilt not 
tion is to be pursued and attained. move toward co-education unless St. 
The "how" of co-education was Mary's College is included. Besides 
dealt with superficially in the Park· the 125 years of shared history which 
Mayhew Report. "We feel the consul· the two schools enjoy, such areas as 
tants wrote the report trying not to the co-exchange pro!Jam, the 
offend the administrations of our 
ND-SMC theatre, and the education two schools and in doing so, failed in 
department point the way toward a their primary responsibility: explicit­
combination of some sort. If these ly stating those unpleasant facts that 
statements are true--and we believe neither school wished to face, but 
they are--the Boards of Trustees of must face if co-education is to be­
Notre Dame and St. Mary's can come a reality." However, we feel 
choose to travel one of two roads at that some parts of the report do have 
their' March meetings: first. if St. merit; for example, the idea of a "St. 
Mary's Board and the Sisters of the Mary's College in the University of 
Holy Cross decide against merger, Notre Dame." This c.an be an effec­
Notre Dame's Trustees can either a) tive mechanism of co-education if 
decide to go co-ed anyway if they certain requirements not included by 
feet St. Mary's will not change its Drs. Park and Mayhew are met. 
stand within two years, or b) decide Among these "we include co-ed hous· 
to wait until St. Mary's has a change ing on both campuses, the opportuni­
of heart if Notre Dame's Trustees feet ty for women to receive their under­
it may come in one or two years. graduate degree directly from Notre 
Second, if St. Mary's Trustees opt for Dame, and a commitment to reduce 
the merger, Notre Dame's Board 
the ratio of men to women to 2: 1" as should, indeed, must concur. The soon as possible. Though the Boards "when" and the "how" of co-educa­of Trustees will probably make the tion must then be decided. administrative changes, the Coordina· 
We feel that the first road should 
tor will have the herculean task of not even be a consideration. If Notre 
establishing the new academic Dame moves forward without St. 
arrangements. However, a firm and pointed stance by both Boards ofMary's, it would lead to our sister Trustees and a willingness to co­school's immediate decline and even­
operate on both campuses shouldtual extinction. If Notre Dam_e waits ease the, frictions inherent in his job.
upon St. Mary's, both Boards would 
be guilty of gross negligence in their 
Also, the Coordinator should be able roles of "running" their respective 
to draw on all available research and institutions. They would be ignoring 
manpower in the re-organization of the medical services, security depart­
sound economic sense (especially in ments, placement bureaus, admis­
St. Mary's case) and the chance to 
provide greater educational resources 
sions offices, public relations and to both institutions. They would be 
development departments, to rrn~n­perpetrating the outmoded and un­tion a few. In addition, recognizing real existence of an all-mate univer­
that we as students have to take as 
sity and an all-female college. Most active a rote as possible, we call on importantly, they would demonstrate the student governments of Notre quite dramatically the great distance Dame and St. Mary's to make .plans 
between them and the students, for merger at the earliest possible 
faculty, and administrators they serve date. 
and, especially, their unfortunate in­We have only touched on the vast sensitivity to student wants and and difficult nature of implementa­
needs. tion. There is much left to be Therefore we address ourselves to examined. But unless the decision for the second road. As Presidents of the co-education is made next month, all 
20 residence dorms of the University the energies being harnessed now will of Notre Dame, we call on both be weakened, if not dissipated. All of Boards of Trustees to endorse the us who are concerned with the future decision for co-education next month of both Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
and to take the necessary steps to­cannot afford to let that happen. We 
ward co-education without further sincerely hope you act favorably 
delay. This means the immediate upon this recommendation. 
NEWS MEETING 
Notre Dame Staff 
VERY IMPORTANT 
Everybody be there 
8:30 PM Wednescl•y Room 2D L•Fortune 


Tuesday, February 9, 1971 Page 3 
Berrigan arraigned in kidnap plot 



(UPI) -The Rev. Philip dential advisor Henry also indicted the six with plot­Berrigan and five co-defendants Kissinger. Federal Judge R. ting to blow up the heating were arraigned today after they Dixon Herman granted the delay systems of five government were granted a delay to permit after the defense lawyers argued buildings in Washington. Accord­them to meet for the first time that they needed time to permit ing to the indictment, the plot since they were indicted in an the six to meet and develop "a called for detonation of explo­alleged plot to kidnap presi-political and legal strategy in this sives on Feb. 15, George 
case." Washington's birthday, and the 
In addition to Berrigan, 4 7, kidnapping of Kissinger the the other defendants, all free on following day. bail, wereSister Elizabeth. Berrigan, now serving time in McAllister, 31, a nun from a federal prison at Danbury, Tarrytown, N.Y., two Roman Conn., for burning draft records, Catholic priests, the Rev. Joseph was brought in strict secrecy. Wenderoth, 35, and the Rev. Stringent security measures were Neil McLaughlin, Anthony· imposed at the 11 story federal Scoblick, 30, a married priest on building where about 100 mem­leave from the Catholic Church, bers of the Washington Birthday and Eqbal Ahamd, 40, of Defense Committee held a Chicago, a Pakistani graduate peaceful "vigil" at the front student. entrance Monday. 
The federal grand jury here The group sang pe~ce songs, 
Apollo crew returning to earth 
responded when ground· control­
SPACE CENTER, Houston Mitchell quickly replied: "I 
lers told him Apollo 14 was just
(UP!) -Apollo 14's astronauts, never doubted it for a minute;
I 00 miles from home.
calling their flight a "smashing we are going to make it." Shepard and his co-pilots,
sucess," splash down in the The astronauts drew a lauglt South Pacific Tuesday, leaving a Stuart A. Roosa and Edgar D. from ground controllers when a third set of footprints on the Mitchell, acknowledged "we still 
blank expression spread across 
moon and a new legacy of excel­have a little bit of this voyage to their faces after being asked to lence for future missions to go and we're still concerned 
compare the rocks of Apollo 14 
follow. about a safe return." But they 
with those of other missions. "Beautiful, beautiful, getting made abundantly clear in a 30 "We've been so busy 
we closer all the time," mission mirtute news conference tele­haven't looked at the rocks," Commander Alan B. Shepard vised in color from space late 
Shepard confessed, sending
Monday that they were satisfied 
Roosa scurrying down under the 
HPC business with their performance-and seats to pull one out. that of their equipment-on the 
This brought another laugh
(Continued from Page 1) $400 million flight to Fra 
when Shepard observed: "We fortunate insensitivity to stu­Mauro's dusty foothills. 
didn't have a dust problem until dents wants and needs." They aimed for a bullseye just now ..." A final aspect of the proposal splashdown at 4:04 p.m. EST "Because of the dust problemcalls for a merger of the ND and 900 miles south of Pago Iago to that has just been created, I SMC Student Governments as ' end man's third lunar explora­guess we'll have to hold off soon as possible. This, the pro­tion-a record 33V2 hour stay on showing you a rock until we getposal states, is necessary because the rolling landscape and two back," Shepard finally said. 

heard various speakers, and listened to ·prayers offered by clergymen. They carried ne banners or signs. 
Attorneys from New York, Chicago, Baltimore and Newark, N.J., were on hand to aid in the defense of the six, who we,re indicted here last month. 
The six defendants and seven persons named as co-conspira­tors by the grand jury later issued a joint statement saying "with a clear conscience that we are neither conspirators, nor bombers, nor kidnapers." 
"If one is concerned with the 
. crimes against humanity, it is the officials of the U.S. government who should be on trial." 
The accused the federal government of "kidnaping on an enormous scale" by taking people in Southeast Asia away from thei_r homes and sending young Amerfcan men away to fight and "the destruction by explosives of three countries­Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia." 
"We ask our fellow citizens to match our lives, our actions, against the actions of the Presi­dent, his advisors and his chiefs of staff and pose the question: Who has committed the crimes of violence?' 
Judge Herman did not set a trial date. He gave the attorneys 60 days to ftle pre-arraignment mot\ons, delayed by earlier con­fusion about who would defend the six. 

. -~1 

A ploy by Lillian Hellman 
.WASHINGTON HALL Feb. 19,20,25,26,27 
Tickets 1.50 
at8:30PM & 
Feb.. 21 at 2:30PM 

"the students have to take as spacewalks that netted them 96 active a role as possible." pounds of rocks. 
In other business, Bob Asked whether they ever felt Meyers, speaking on behalf of their moon landing mtsswn the upcoming General Assembly would have to be aborted as a called on the Hall Presidents to result of the many equipment arouse interest in their respective· problems that plagued them, halls for what he termed ''this very important student func­tion." Meyers emphasized that all proposals must be presented to the Student Government of­fice by Friday for consideration. 
Chariman John Barkett an­nounced that the IIalll'residents will meet next Thursday with Father Thomas E. Chambers, Director of Student Housing concerning the upcoming Room 
Selection within the halls. The Presidents forsee a great number of problems centered around overcrowding, which they hope to solve with the co-operation of Fr. Chambers. 


Finally, Barkett presented a 

COLLEGE 
letter of protest concerning the prisoners of war held in North 

NIGHT SPECIA 
Vietnam. This is a nationwide project to obtain for these 

Tuesd•r• 
prisoners "minimum standards 

S pm-11 Pill
of existence." The letters will be circulated throughout the halls and each resident will be given the opportunity to sign. A $.25 

All the Chicken 
fee will be required for postage and handling. 

You Can Eat
r--------­
$1AI 
t 
t Lost -Brown shoulder bag, t second floor Lafortune (Observer t typing room). If found please call f4412or6637 ~ 
.f 
'-------­
The Observer Is published dally during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage 


Corner of Edi~n and Ironwood
paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief John E. Knorr. Executive Editor Bruce Reick, Business Manager 
The use of force is but temporary. It may subdue for a moment; but it does not remove the necessity of subduing again; and a nation is not governed, which is perpetually to be conquered. Edmund Burke, 22 March 1775 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3,1966 NOTRE OAME,INDIANA 
The Problem For Which There is No Sofution 
Room selection is one of the more acute constituent parts of the Notre Dame Spring Agonies. The idea of forcing students out of their dorms seems, in a residential College, utterly perverse. Nonetheless, the room selection process this University goes through appears to be the only way the University can guarantee rooms to the newly-accepted Freshmen. 
Temperate supply vs. intemperate demand has been a source of a good many troubles ~ere, and this happens to be one of them. This University is in no shape to rruse the supply of housing here-our building debts are a sure indicator of that fact. Although limiting the demand for building by limiting the numb~r of Freshmen Admittance is a hardheadedly reasonable step, it would be Imprudent for the University to attempt to build its Admissions Pr?gram around the available housing. That plan, suggested by some, holds netther Academic merit nor social value. In addition, many students are unsure weather or not they want to continue living on campus until April or May, far too late for the University to in any way react. 
This is really a problem for which there is no solution, at least not at the present time. Freshmen should be able to live on campus--a goodly percentage can't drive; for most of them, it's their first experience away from home-but then again, so should upperclassmen. Perhaps the only thing we can do is to hope that apartment builders will realize the need for low-cost housing near Notre Dame, and act accordingly. 
The University, then, should let it be known: this area is in need of low-cost housing, and this University welcomes such projects. 
-···--·-··--·-·LeHers to the Editor-­

Dear Editor: 
I have seen no feedback on 
your publication of the Park­
Mayhew Report, which you have 
been so diligent in maligning. 
Perhaps others, like myself, were · 
so shocked by the difference 
between what the report actu­
ally says and what it said when 
taken out of context in your 
editorials that it hasn't yet 
dawned that both are one and 
the same. As usual, the campus 
media have been less than totally 
reliable. 
Fr. Hesburgh told a group of Fisher Hall residents that he feels that we would be much more along toward coeducation if the recommendations were carried out. Most listeners seemed to agree, although I speak with certainty only for myself. 
The Park-Mayhew Report is not "an eloquent whitewash," and if it didn't go to the lengths we might have desired, it is unfortunate. It does offer an improvement over the present situation, and deserves more credit than you have given. 
Oh, another small point: the group that sponsored the recent abortion panel was named after Orestes Brownson (not Bronson, who Came Then). 
Pat Gooley 

Dear Editor: 
We would like to thank you for your reporting of our recent discussion on abortion. We did cover a broad spectrum of many things in rapid-fire order, and would doubt that anyone would have picked up all of the details. Might we clarify a few points? 
In delineating the stages of development, we mentioned the following: "Quickening" actu­
ally occurs at six weeks. At eight weeks, teeth buds are present, gastric juice is being secreted, and the baby will move its head away if you tickle its nose. At eight weeks Barbara quoted the story of the New York doctor watching the tiny (one em.) fetus swim. At nine to ten weeks he squints, swallows, and can have an EKG recording of his heart. At eleven to twelve weeks, 
he vigorously sucks his thumb, weighs one ounce, is brething fluid steadily, and has all body systems now working. We quoted Arnold Gesell "the or­ganization of his psychosomatic self is well under way." 
No essential change happens after twelve weeks except con­tinuing growth and further maturation and development of 
the organs and systems already present. We questioned the fre­quently used twenty week "via­realistic. 
To clear up the maternal death rate from abortion com­pared to childbirth; in child­birth, about two women will die for every 1O,OOO deliveries. 
Legal abortion results in a rna-the Administration of St. Mary's, naughty names?MeJ!nwhile Fr. 
ternal death of about five mothers for every IO,OOO abor­tions S e f th ill d. 
· om 0 ese w Ie
from hepatitus acquired from 
the transfusions that some mothers need. Approximately one out of each 300 women who 
receive transfusions ill ha e fatal hepatitus from :bortio~s performed elsewhere. Neither of these last two are reported as abortion deaths. We estimated therefore that two to three times as many women will die of legal abortion as would have died from childbirth if they had carried their babies to te 
rm. 
Our thanks to Notre Dame for the opportunity to speak, and to the hundreds of students who jammed every conceivable spot in or near the library audi­toriurn. Hope we'll have the pri­vilege again sometime. 
Sincerely, 

Dr. & Mrs. 1.C. Willke Letters to the Editor should be typed & double spaced. 
Address them to: Letters, P.O. Box 
Hesburgh. will say "Pretty please wit~ sugar on it." Ann ,Marie 
Tra.~ey will cry..And for .the next hve years there wont be a noticeable change m the social atmosphere at Notre Dame. 
Th t' h t t f · · h "H d · " · f
bla s w a one ge s or 1gnonng t e ow to o It s1de o 
pro ~ms. . 

So mstead of drawmg up a g~ogol paged vision of Utopi.a, several 
members of my hall are drawmg up a pr?posal they wtsh to be 
presented to the student body at the upcoming student assembly. In 
~he "What ~hould be done" area thi~ proposal has onl~ two basic 
tdeas. One IS the coexchange of residency along the lines of the 
Thun?er Conway Pr~posal, with Fall 1972 as the latest acceptable 
deadline. The other IS the full scale effort of Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's to expand the enrollment of the latter in the very near future 
to the point that t~e famous Ratio is not one bit ~hove three to one. 
These two very simple changes are much more Important to Notre 
D~m~ stude~ts than merged departments or horse manure about 
pnntmg on dtplomas. They represent a very reasonable demand. 
In the "How to do it" Department this proposal is unique. It asks that the Administration develop a totally feasible plan for the admitting of its own women in the Fall of 1972. The Administration is then to present the administration of St. Mary's with a choice: either accept coexchange of residency and expansion, or the relationship between our two schools is terminated. In that case we will admit our own women and leave you alone to face your financial crisis. The Administration of Notre Dame should give St. Mary's two months after the appointment of its new president to decide. The decision must be decisive, no "ifs" or "buts." 
Professor Hinkemeyer has claimed that St. Mary's College will probably cease without Notre Dame. If presented by Notre Dame with a firm threat of extinction, St. Mary's will probably decide to ~o. along. But it doesn't matter, either way there will be women 
Night Editor: John AbowdManaging Editor: Bill Carter Sports Editor:· Terry Shields 

News Editor: Ed Ellis Campus Editor: Steve Lazar Headlines: Marty Miller Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treanor Advertising Manager: Bill Bauerle Layout: Jim McDermott, Debbie Features Editor: Daw Lammers Carella, Dan Ryan 
Proofreader: Linda Blackburn 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

(Reprinted from a previous Observer) 
Tom Bornholdt --------------­
Prodding the Donkey 
---------------------~----· 
The planning needed for the solving of all human problems comes ·in two parts: deciding what is to be done, and deciding how_ to do 
it. The latter is usually the harder task. In the continuing drama of 
the coeducation at Notre Dame, "the how to do it" phase has been 
neglected constantly. 

The combined student governments have created no Jess than 
thirteen committees to do an indepth study of the coeducation 
problem, and suggest solutions. If a reasonable stroke of good 
fortune occurs we will soon have a finished report from student 
government. 

Oh, what a glorious monument to human effort it will be. Pages 
upon pages of wonderful ideas. At least 600 students involved in 
coexchange. An experimental coeducational residence at Holy Cross. 
Merged Departments and merged Trustees. All sorts of marvelous 
solutions to the problems of dining and housing. Merged student 
governments, and merged admissions. A fantastic blueprint for 
transforming Notre Dame into paradise. 
Personally Dave Krashna will present this masterpiece to Fr. 
Hesburgh. The Board of Trustees is overwhelmed by its logic, and 
starts implementing it. The financial troubles are solved with ease. 
Everything is going beautjifully. 
St. Mary's says no. 

What would student government do?Will Mark hold his breath 
and turn purple until St. Mary's accepts'!Will Dave get angry and call 
Too often m the past has the Administrations of both schools 
~sa~g the tune, "Procrastina~ion can be fun:•; If KraS:·'1a-Jets the assembly vote on the above plan, and if the assembly affirms it, a lot 0~ .rea tape Wlll be cut. No longer can Vame Umosaur or Sister 
Stlhness at St. Mary's get away with frustrating the legitimate desire of . the . N?tre Dame student body while parasiting off of the Untversrtys resources. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b;il;·I~l~y=''=t~i;m;e~a;s~n;o~~~n~g~e~r~be;i~n~g~1~1~,~N;o~t~re~D;a:m;e~,~ln;d;·~~~·~~~ h~ngonthe~mpus~NotreDamein~p~mb~,l972. 
Dave lam....,.s 

Planning for the home front 

Here we are again, folks, widening the war so that we can --what? narrow it down. wipe it out., string it out, shorten it 
up? Who knows'? 
· We haven't been able to ask our Presi­dent what the hell is he doing this time, but we were able to eavesdrop in on a conversation with the nation's top foreign advisor, the chief of student affairs, and the government's leading meteorologist. 
"What's the timetable for the latest invasion, Henry'!' the chief of students asked. 
"Well, Jack, that's the purpose of this meeting. As you might expect, the Presi­dent is a man that knows the lessons of history and he has the knack of profiting by his own mistakes, and he doesn't want to make the same mistakes, or I should 
Terry Kennedy 

say oversights, that occurred, you know, last spring. He has sent out a top level memo, which I am sure you have studied, that requests that the latest wind down of the conflict be carried out with no demonstrations or attacks by the stu­dents. There are to be no school closings, no Lincoln Memorial . meetings, no marches on Washington, and no more attacks on our forces in the National Guard. O.K. ?O.K. Now let's get down to it. We would like the wind down in Laos to occur the first weeker{d in February. That gives us two weeks to plan things out for the home front. Billy Joe, how does the weather forecast look for that weekend'/" 
"Well, Henry, there is a hell of a cold front moving into the mid-west and you can see on our map here that the snow and wind chill factors are predicted to be beyond the tolerance of 98.6% of the students. So things look good for Chica­go, Kent, Columbus, and South Bend." 
"That's good, Billy Joe, but its the two coasts that we're worried about. How's the situation in California?" 
"It's hard to predict of course, but things look so good for California that I was planning on going out there myself that weekend. The surf should be up in Malibu and the beaches around Los An­geles and Berkely should be outasight, I mean, the students will probably be busy 'catching the rays', if you know what J. mean,Henry." t 
Shame 

To analyze the themes of Shame as an attempt to describe the movie for those who did not see it would be a disservice to the film, I'm sure, because it was an experience that reached beyond a simply intellectual level. A person who saw the film with me could hardly speak for several minutes after it ended, which is, I think, an honest indication of the power of the film. 
What I should remember from Shame is a timid man dropping the gun at first, then in fear of his life taking it up again and forcing himself to forget himself, to play the role he has been assigned by those with more guns, to view his old friend as nothing, a chicken to be shot at. And perhaps even more I'll remember a man needing love, grasping for the feel of it, human intimacy he called it, knowing he would soon be killed for a reason that took no regard for the good things of his life. 
Most people, it seems, have come to accept death by mythologizing their lives such that death plays an unavoidable, but not disasterous, role. A man works hard, fathers a family, trains his children gently but firmly, grows into a dignified old age, plays with his grandchildren, then passes a way. If he has more than the average integrity and intelligence, he may become a father-figure of sorts to his neighbors, a mayor or councilman for his village or community, guiding his fellow citizens gently but firmly, working to bring happi­ness to all, with the reward of admiration and respect to the man in his later years, and remembrance in his death. 
But if this is destroyed. if the children are dead or unconcerned, if the com­munity is wiped out, what can such a man see of value in his life? The absurdity of his entire life stares him in his face, a vast abyss of meaninglessness to which he has been blind for all his time, which he no longer has time to respond to, for w.hich there perhaps is no response pos­sible anyhow. So then there is only the 
feel of the security of "human intimacy" to make life bearable for a few more hours, and finally a groveling in the dirt like some wounded animal in a most absurd attempt to escape death. 
There has been much talk of freedom 
and liberation recently, which I have in 
some way been a part of, but the confi­dence with which we talk about changing the order, abolishing the order, is a bit scary sometimes. The theorists, of course, 

are all probably right, freedom is clearly the highest ideal to which human nature can aspire, and the present establishment puts little emphasis on the development of freedom. But as we throw off the structures that restrain us, we will find, I think, that we have also lost most of the supports we had depended on. Which i~> not at all to say that we should be satisfied with the mediocrity with which we are asked to live our lives now. But we should remember, I think, that freedom will require us to be terribly courageous, to face problems far more essential than the distribution of material goods and political privileges within our society. And we w!J.o speak with righteousness of freedom should be careful not to make our friends simply characters in our dreams. 


Tonight marks the end of the Mardi Gras for 1971, and your last chance to break the bank. Under the leadership of Greg Stepic, Expo '71 has played fast to thousands of gamblers from the area. Don't miss it! 
"Hell, I know what you mean. I'm a swinger, you asshole, don't you read Time? "What about the East Coast'!' 
"Henry, I might be able to help out here," opined Jack, the chief of students. Instead of simply relying on the whimsies of nature, like Billy Joe here is forced to do, why don't we do some aggressive 
planning for that weekend'!' 
"Like what?' growled Henry, who was looking furtively around for traces of Phil Berrigan. 
"Why, there's lots of things. First, we can get a big game. I think UCLA and USC are playing that weekend, which takes care of California for that day and the next one right there. Call Howard Hughes and get that game on national TV and tell qim that the Pentagon will pick up half the tab. Then call Billy Graham at the Filmore and have him book all the potential hot spots with some outasight, far out groups. Don't spare any coin, either. Then call J. Edgar and have his boys lay off all the dope pushers that week so that everyone will be stoned as we wind down the conflict. I've found, from my personal research, that when you're stoned not even an invasion can get you out into that cold and snow. Then call the presidents of all the beer companies and have them arrange a two for one sale that weekend, or s<!mething like that, so that the beer drinkers will have something to take their minds off of, well, the problem." 
"Good, Good, Good, Jack! Right on! Now we're getting somewhere! We've got snow and cold in the Midwest, surfing at Malibu, a basketball game in Los Angeles and on the tube, and we'll have free dope and beer for the kids on the East Coast! A wright!" 
"It seems as if we're forgetting some­thing, Henry. I think we're forgetting the big thing for that weekend." 
"Yeah. Let me think. Of course! The moon shot! That Friday and Saturday we've got another moon landing! Far out! All the networks will be tied up with simulations and the moon movies and interviews with the astronauts wives and 
. all that good shit. 0 Boy! Maybe, if I call Werner down at the Cape, we can cook up some little trouble with the moon shot so that the suspense will have everyone burned out by the time of the wind down! We can e·ven get some big thing going while their up there. Wow, maybe we can have the astronauts release some doves for peace while they're on the moon! What about it.? 
"Oh, come on, Henry. Don't you know anything about peace. There's no air on the moon and the· birds would die of suffocation." 
"Oh, yeah. That wouldn't look too good for us, would it? "No, Henry, it wouldn't. People might take it as a bad sign." 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::;::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~:;:;:~:;:;:;:~:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::~:::::::::=:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;
IThe death of Dave Bee" I 
David Beck was a student at Notre 
Dame. He is dead now. Two weeks ago, 
on a Saturday night, his last, he was 
wandering down Notre Dame A venue 
attempting to return to his room at the 
Notre Dame apartments. David Beck was 
very drunk! He waved down a car and 
when it stopped he jumped on the back. 
The car did not go far or fa~t before he 
fell off. Observers say that his head 
bounced on the pavement three times. 
That is how Dave Beck died. 
I do not like to write about David 
Beck's death. It was ugly, it was terribly senseless. Yet, it happened and I can not forget it. His case touches deeply the vicious circle of problems here. At an all male institution the alternatives on a. weekend are solemnly reduced. Drinking, as a result, takes on greater significance than just an aid to a good time. For many, it becomes method for escaping the lonliness that closes in relentlessly on the weekends, I do not know which case it was for David Beck. But, in a sense it . does not matter because the combination of events surrounding his death reflect an insane environment. This tragic life-style is produced when young men ap­proaching maturity live in a sterile, mon­astic, atmosphere and seek enjoyment through escape. In the past nine months two people have died on Notre Dame 
Avenue. 

The reason for a change in atmosphere 
here are now being written in the blood of Notre Dame students who have fallen on that road. My elders warn me to be sensitive and responsible, but if I should ask the same of them then there would be 
no reason for Park/Mayhew, there would be no reason for an image-consciousness, only a need for sight. Unfortunately, this is the only eulogy written for David Beck. It is unfortunate because it springs from my own outrage, my own sense of hurt, and my deep sense of shame. It is also unfortunate because his death was so unnecessary. I look around and see my fellow students relentlessly pursuing their madness as before. Have not any of you heard the bell that tolls for David Beck? 
In a time when the human being senses only his remoteness from others I would ask you -Sander Vanoucker (First Tues­day), Jerry Hirshenbaum (Sports Illustra­ted), Reverend Hesburgh, Reverend Bur­tchaell, Edward Stepan, (Chairman of the Board of Trustees) and all the other honorable administrators -do not muffle your ears with the sound of your last 
hurrahs,  but  reflect  on  the  enforced  
lonliness  that  the  Notre  Dame student  
must live with.  

And students, take advantage of the General Assembly to determine what we can do about it. 
In Peace, Paul Kimball 113 Morrissey Hall Notre Dame 


Tuesday, February 9, 1971 

Matmen drop three 
•net 
by terry Shields Observer Sports Editor

St. M•ry's Students 
The Notre Dame wrestling squad wasn't nearly as successful as some of the other varsity teams during the activities of 
GIFT PAX 

Pick them up in the Coke Bar of LaFortune 
this past weekend. The Irish 
Tuesday Feb. 9 -3-5 pm and 7-9 pm 
matmen suffered three damaging losses. 
Pizza· Hut Pete Presents 
NO & SMC 
"Student Special" 
'l}. price on any pizza or soft drink 
With School J.D. Pitcher Night: 
$1.25 for a pitcher of Budweiser of Strohs Monday night only -Pizza Hut 1 on Lincolnway Tuesday night only -Pizza Hut 2 on Edison Road 
EA1, IN OR CARRY OUT 
TRY OUR NEW SUBMARINESANDWICH 2 LOCATIONS-CALL AHEAD 288-6060 SO. BEND #1 ACROSS FROM I.U. 
233-3827 SO. BEI\'D #2 MILE EAST OF N.D. 
Bocce B•ll Score
We Are the Nations Largest! 
St. John College

ND 21 5 
of Cleveland 

In a triple dual meet the Irish lost to Millersville College 26-8, Cincinnati University 23 -II and Drake University 30---8. Drake was the meet champ with their 3-0 mark. Cincinnati placed sec­ond Iossing only to the Bulldogs and Millersville attained its only victory by blasting the Irish. 
The only men to post vic­tories for ND in the Millersville battle were captain Tom Ciaccio who dominated his opponent Bill Beigel 8-0 and undefeated heavyweight Phil Gustafson who gained five points for the Irish by taking a forfeit. Millersville won every other match by de­cision except in the I 77 pound class where Mike pinned ND's John Imhoff. 
The Drake match looked like a carbon copy of the preceding match as the tough Bulldogs duplicated Millersville's feat by winning all but two bouts. The duo of Ciaccio and Gustafson kept ND from total embarass­ment by winning a decision and another forfeit respectively. 
Drake managed two pins over the beaten Irish with Donnie Wilson taking the fall from Steve Moylan in 126 and Dave Luth put Irish Bob Bennett's shoulders to the mat in the 167 division. 
In the closest match of the 
afternoon for the Irish it was much the same story except the margin of victory was only I 2 points. Captain Ciaccio de­cisioned the Bearcats Larry Frank to the tune of 8-0. Kurt Botcher had the privilege of win­ning a match for the Irish other than Ciaccio or Gustafson. He 
pinned his opponent Vince Rin­aldi at 3:06 to get five markers on the board for ND. 
The consistent and awesome Gustafson had little trouble with Cincy's Frank Sherna by dom­inating I0-0. The victory string for Gustafson by virtue of the decision and the two forfeits has reached the 31 mark. Gustafson is on his way to re-writing the record books for wins, winning percentage and pins if he con­tinues his varsity career at this. pace. The junior heavyweight took over for Pat Mudron last season and no one has been able to move him out. The Irish have depth at this division with Mu­dron fully recuperated from last season's operation. 
The Irish season mark now stands at 5-6-l. Ciaccio and Gustafson were the only mem­bers of the squad to benefit 
from this weekend. The next competition will be Friday when the grapplers travel to Findley, Ohio to take on Findley College and then move on down Inter­state 7 5 to have a re-match with the Cincinnati Bearcats. 
LADY LOVE OR BEAU A MESSAGE THAT WILL BE PRESERVED FOREVER IN THE N.D. ARCHIVES? 
TAKE OUT AN OBSERVER 
VALENTINE AD 
S1.00 FOR TEN WORDS OR LESS 
Ads to be run in Thursday, February II OBSERVER Stop by the Fiest• Louna• tod•r •net toMorrow fro• 2:00 to 1.0 or 
SEND YOUR MESSAGE TOG ETHER WITH PAYMENT TO: THE ClBSERVER, P.O. BOX 11, NOTRE DAME, lr.D. 


~-----------------------­
Big John sparks Irish over Butler 

by J.W. Findling his Butler team in the game with that the Bulldog's bite was, in­red-hot long range bomb­deed, worse their
Observer Sportswriter some much than ing. bark.
John Pleick, the newest gemto Austin Carr started out In the second half, Pleickshine in Coach Johnny Dee's quickly with a pair of field goals, went to work. On some dazzlingbox of treasures, ignited Notre but a box and one zone defense assists by Jackie Meehan andDame from an embarassing employed by new Butler head Carr, Big John furnished Notre41 -39 halftime deficit to give coach George Theofanis held Dame with five of their firstthe Irish a rather uncomfortable Austin to 14 first half points. seven field goals and propelled93-81 victory over the sticky Clarence Crain kept the ball the Irish to a 53-44 lead, withButler Bulldogs. 

away from Carr, and the All­15: 12 left. But Butler wasn'tAlthough he fouled out with 
American only got loose for nine dead yet. 
9:52 remaining, the big guy 

shots during the initial stanza. 
The Bulldogs pulled to withinfrom El Segundo rifled in five of 
The Bulldogs opened as much 
four, 60-56 with II :33 left infive from both the field and the 
as a 19-14leadwith 12:391eft. 
the game. Then Carr startedfree throw line, to provide the With 7:02 remaining in the first moving. He pumped in the nextIrish with its twelfth victory of 
half, Doug Gemmell threw his 
II Irish points and gave NO athe season. It wasn't easy. 
hot hand into the cool-shooting 
74-65 lead with 6:29 showingThe Irish looked vulnerable in Irish lineup. Gemmell connected on clock. Butler
the Althoughthe first half -almost to the on three consecutive fielders and closed the gap to 76-73 and had point of inspiring siropathy. 

was responsible for keeping the an opportunity to get
Slick Billy Shepherd, a Hoosier even 
Irish close at the end of the half. closer, some clutch shooting by gunner in the finest sense, kept 
At intermission it was evident 
NOTRE DAME BUTLER FG FT REB PTS FG FT REB PTS Carr IS-27 6-7 II 36 Evans 7-14 4-6 6 18 
Jones 8-24 2-3 23 18 Bennett 7-IS 2-3 4 16 
Catlett 6-16 2-2 14 14 Ehret l-6 0-l 6 2 
Pleick 6-11 S-S 6 17 Shepherd 13-32 2-3 1 28 
Meehan 1-4 0-1 2 2 Crain 3-6 2-2 6 8 
Gemmell 3-S · 0-0 2 6 Holt 3-6 0-2 6 6 
Sinnott 0-0 0-0 0 0 Runyan 0-2 3-3 4 3 
Team 3 Team s 
TOTAL 39-87 15-18 62 93 TOTAL 34-81 13-20 38 81 ND shot 44.8%. BU shot 41.9%. N D had 17 turnovers. BU had IS turnovers. 
Voices from the Crowd 
Sports Editor: had the last laugh. He came out clear on a fantastically hot 
J .W. Findling fashioned an ad­shooting night, why insert
with a trap zone the second half, not mirable defense of Coach Dee and Jackie Meehan couldn't hit Sinnott or even Egart whose last Friday. Unfortunately it left from the outside to prevent the quickness might slow down the me as empty as some of those sag; pulling the zone out and Illinois flash. Or switch Austin dining hall meals of which he clearing the middle. Yet sitting onto Howat. Maybe Carr's 
also spoke. A well written article on the bench was Mike O'Con­quickness could have hampered to be sure ... though it didn't say nell, a better than average play­Howat more. too much that we didn't know maker and a good shooter. He I've often wondered if Austin before. Surely Dee has given the wasn't inserted until the game might not be more effective if student body much to cheer was already decided. Instant re­we played a more disciplined about. And an 11-5 record (as of play: Illinois, Chicago Stadium, defense, seasoned with the fast Saturday) is good considering January 30th. Carr was cold, and break. The real key though is the quality of the schedule. But it still took them an overtime to team play. It was proven against Mr. Findling must we be satis­beat us. But on the bench rested UCLA and Creighton especially, fied with your kind of appease­Tom Sinnott, who Findling ad­when our starting front line 
mits is an excellent shot, though
ment, the same thing we all scored 51 points. Can you recall, 
castigate the University for? I he showed a cold if not frost-bit­in the last three years when that 
ten hand against Creighton.
have always felt that the raw has happened '/That is the kind talent of the team has been on a Doug Gemmell, speaking of the of play that will bring champion­same game said, "Big John
par with UCLA's and Ken­ships. Team play, not everyone 
tucky's. Then why do we con­(Pleik) just had a bad shooting standing around to watch Auggie 
game, but on any other night he 
tinue to flirt with mediocrity? score 50. Everyone playing their 
Maybe the answer does lie with might have torn the gym up." game, instead of reacting to Aus­
But he wasn't and he didn't. So
the coaching. tin's temperature. 
Mr. Findling offers all us why not insert Regelan and give No, Mr. Findling, we don't
John a chance to sit down and
"proselytes of basketball" the want to see the Virgin Islands, 
luxury of realizing defeats of rest. Maybe get a different per­Rutgers, or Southern Ala bam a. 
spective on what was going on
both UCLA and Kentucky this You're either naive or foolish to 
year. But if UCLA wins it all out there. Or, God save my soul, interpret the discontent in that 
why not sit Auggie down for a
again our victory will be rele­manner. It has long been a favor­
gated to that of a freak. The moment, if he was sick. Just a ite saying of the students that 
only thing that matters now is chance to think and watch might Johnny Dee can make a great 
consistency. Something that we be helpful. It seems like the only player mediocre. But maybe 
seem to have little of. But may­time we substitute is when we great players have made a medi­
be Mr. Findling is satisfied with are in foul trouble. Why not ocre coach great. I don't know, 
being a giant killer. But it seems make the best of the overall that kind of conjecture is purely 
to me that honor went out with talent, instead of waiting for 
personal. We have not had a David, when he defeated Goli­Austin to miraculously rouse his great season yet, though we have ath. teammates? Findling says Sin­bordered on the superlative. And True, the Irish respond to nott and Gemmell where are we to look for that
are Austin Carr. But is that to be "diamonds in the rough and are little push that will give us con­
praised?! have long felt that we quite likely to break open a sistency? I disagree with Don rely too much on Carr and couple of games before the sea­Kennedy, Sports Editor of the Jones. The rest of the team reads son ends." Looks like they've Scholastic when he implies that as "a cast of thousands". Too missed a few chances already. Dee's true test will be the suc­bad Mr. Maravich didn't have a And how about a defensive cess of the team down the final supporting cast. Even Lew Alcin­change once in a while?Other eleven games. The test will come dor was granted the luxury. coaches, Johnny Wooden in­next year, when he finds himself· 
Maybe we rely on Auggie too cluded, have not been too proud 
no longer able to call upon Carr much. Ask any coach, they'll tell to change defensive assignments. and Jones for feats of magic. you the true test of a great team Meehan is a good defensive play­Education as Mr. Findling speaks understand
is to win even when they are er. In fact I he of is mostly learning from mis­flat. And when they are stymied played a tenatious defense his takes. Has there been an educa­it's up to the coach to pull a few freshman year. But that was two tion?You decide. But as of now,knee operations ago.. His lateral
tricks out of his hat. I'd rather not wait for Austin to 
movement is understandibly im­
If you can remember back to wave his magic wand. Perhaps he 
paired, and it seems as though he
the Kentucky tournament game could use a little help once in a last year you will recall that we favors hL~ injury at times. So while. Whadda ya think coach? 
upset Adolf's man-for-man and while Rick Howat is working off E.J. Kinkopf
picks and just spinning to get
led at half-time. But the Baron 3 26 Zahm 
Collis Jones gave Notre Dame 
nine straight points and a com­
manding 87 -77 lead. 

The Irish performance was hardly their best this season, but it's nice to see that the opposi­tion wasn't Marquette or Du­quesne this time. 
Sid Catlett, who missed last year's Butler game, continued to play with the enthusiasm of a grizzly emerging from hiberna­tion. The irrepressible Catlett always offers a couple of spec­tacular plays for each of his turnovers. El Sid grabbed 14 rebounds. 
rnllis Jones, who had his worst shooting night of the sea­son, had his best rebounding evening with an Irish season hlgh total of 23. Jones also blocked several shots and wasn't charged with a foul alf evening -that must be a personal hallmark for 
Collis. Jack Meehan, who must be the most unselfish basketball 
Frosh big 
by Joe Passiatore 
Observer Sportswriter 
Some aroused second-half play by the freshmen front line of John Shumate and Gary Novak, salvaged what had earlier appeared to be a lost cause, as the Leprechauns overtook But­ler's freshmen team, 77-68. The freshmen performed in lethargic fashion throughout the contest until they awakened to assume command of the game in the final.minutes. 
Notre Dame's inability to generate an efficient offense in the first half could be traced to an overabundant amount of mis­takes. Their play was marked with numerous flaws, the most glaring of which, was errant pass­ing. Guard Bob Valibus was beset with ballhandling woes throughout the game and suf­fered through his worst perfor­mance of the season. Valibus' daring style of play seems to lend itself to a fantastic effort or an inept one. Last night it was the latter, as Valibus personally accounted for 15 of the teams 27 turnovers. The team lacked cohesion to the extent that freshmen coach Tom O'Connor removed all five starters and player in the country, threaded 
an amazing 15 assists through 
the blue Bulldog jerseys. 

With Butler out of the way, 
the Irish, who must have been 
looking ahead a little, journey 
Thursday to the Palestra in 
Philadelphia -a place where all 
that business about "Brotherly 
Love" is either forgotten or ig­
nored. The Irish will be hosted 
by the Villanova Wildcats, one 
of the best Eastern quintets this 
season. A victory in front of the 
intimidating Palestra crowd 
against an excellent team would 
be a desirable card to hold when 
the Irish present their hand to 
the NCAA Tournament Selec­
tion Committee for a Mideast 
Rcgianal bid. It might appear as 
if the Irish face a stacked deck in 
Philadelphia. Maybe so. But with 
Pleick, Catlett, and Jones hold­
ing up the table, and Jackie 
Meehan doing the dealing, Aus­
tin Carr should be holding all the 
trumps. 
men win 

inserted the second team with 
four and a half minutes left in 
the half. The substitutes put on 
a spirited press and although off 
in their shooting their hustle 
reduced the deficit to 41-35 at 
the intermission. 

The second period saw a 
roused group of starters play 
some inspired basketball and 
eventually even the game at 
55-55 with 9:26 remaining. At 
that point Gary Novak threw in 
a hook shot to give the Irish 
their first lead since the early 
minutes. John Shumate then 
began to open up and the frosh 
gradually upped their margin to 
the final 77-6 8. 

Shumate's closing streak en­
abled him to tally 22 points 
along with his 15 rebounds, both 
highs in the game. Novak, mean­
while, contributed some sterling 
defensive maneuvers in addition 
to 18 points and I 0 rebounds. 
Chris Stevens chipped in 9 
points and 7 rebounds to aid 
Notre Dame's second-half resur­
gence. 

The baby Irish finished the game with a 39% shooting per­centage, while the Bulldog fresh­men connected on 38%. Notre Dame outrebounded Butler 59 to 51. 
Irish are unbeaten 
The Notre Dame thinclads 
The Buckeyes managed to
upped their dual meet record to 
2-0 over the weekend by defeat­
ing the Buckeyes of Ohio State 
68-62. Elio Polselli ,and Rick 
ner for the Irish. The ,freshman 
Wohlhuter were two standouts 
in the Irish win. 
Polselli set a new Notre Dame 
and the yearling won with a time
record for putting the shot with 
of 1: 12.4. 

a great heave of 56' 9 3/4". This 
was good enough to capture a 
finishes is a good measure of
how close the meet actually was.
Notre Dame had the top spot in
eight events and the Bucks took
Wohlhuter won two events by 
high honors in seven categories.
taking the 880 in 1:57.9 and the 
The Irish will take their un­
1,000 yard run in 2:15.8. Gene 
annual Michigan State Relays
next Saturday afternoon. The
Clarence Wilson's squad included 
following week they go to Ypsi­
lanti where they will be shooting 
for top honors in the grueling
60 yd. high hurdles in 7.5, and 
Central Collegiate Conference
Tom's brother Mike captured 
the long jump and the triple 
jump. Mike cleared the pit for 
and coach Wilson realizes that
23' 2" in the long jump and the 
the Irish have a chance to cope
triple jump. M. McMannon also 
some national recognition this
season.

Page 
8 Tuesday, February 9, 1971 
Thurmond walks out on draft hearing 
WASHINGTON (UPI) _An 18 .. 1 am frustrated," Knutson ed the young men in this coun­hearing room. "I have not been to Vietnam year old college freshman told said. "Frustrated with the draft try." He thanked Knutson for tak­and I hope not to be there " five Senators they had betrayed for what it is trying to make Said Knutson: "When a 55 ing his grievances to Washington Knutson said. ' the Constitution, committed people like me fight for and die year old President or a 70 year and said it was "great that Knutson heads the Stanford hyprocrisy and engendered the for. Frustrated with this Con­old Senator can talk of starting you've chosen to become a part Draft Repeal Council. The com­hatred of young people by fore-gress for betraying its own Con-war in another country, I be­of the government at least tem­
mittee completed its third day
stitution." porarily."
ing them to fight in Vietnam. come disgusted because'beyond of hearings on Presient Nixon's
He asked the senators "Have you been to Vietnam?
Sen. Strom Thurmond, R. S.C., their matter of fact statements proposal to extend the draft for 
walked out of the hearing. what they would have done if lies the fact that people are Sen. Peter H. Dominick R two years while his volunteerColo., a·sked. ' 
The Everett, Wash., youth, ~~~r~~tl~:.~ s~~~~red World War going to be drafted and people army proposal is being tested. 
Peter Knutson, a student at are going to be killed. This talk Stanford University, appeared "Would you have blindly said would cease rather quickly if before the members of the Sen-'My Country Right or Wrong' men like that were drafted, given Howa~d Hall de{ipes 
ate Armed Services Committee and fought to preserve that bar­an M16 and told to lead the first 
the Notre Dame Man
to demand an end to the draft. baric German regime?Or would wave." 
relationship with Cindy as
Things would be different, he you have gone to prison or Stennis, who will be 70 in In a dimly lit atmosphere 
"enjoyable" and the one with
said if the legislators were "given Canada rather than compromise August, listened calmly to bespeaking the solemnity of the occasion, Mr. Kenneth Conant Cathy as approximately the 
an M16 and told to lead the first your ideals'!' Knutson's testimony and at one wave." He contended the Constitu-point ordered clerks to provide Ill, the third in a series of same. Although he did. warn that with Cathy's type one should
Midway in Knutson's testimo-tion says that only Congress may him a microphone so he could Howard Hall Distinguished declare war and raise armies Lecturers, spoke last night to a not be "overanxious". He said
be heard in the back of the
ny, Thurmond left, but Sen. 

he remembered Val as nice but
John C. Stennis, D Miss., the "but you have betrayed that thrilled overflow audience in the with girls like Donna a personchairman, remained and told the document by giving the Presi-Assembly Howard Chapel on a topic of 
dent the power to draft and the consuming interest to what he should "remember one's
neatly dressed youth, whose red (Continued from Page 1)
h · d h" d corresponding power to make termed the "Notre Dame Man." principles". Mr. Conant referred 
air covere Is ears an neck, . h t . ff" . d Government would "probably
·t .. . . war m w a IS o !Cia11 y terme Mr. Conant's address, entitled to Louise as "the type you can
that 1 was great to live m a , t. , I d . not" officially introduce any
1 "The Proper Way a Gentleman play games with" and to Sonia
country where a man can come :eace me: n s~ . ombg you monon on tile lloor ot the As­
1 111 Meets a Young Lady, The Way as "the kind you have to meet".
here in honesty and candor." ave a so, my opmwn, etray-sembly, although he says that He Treats Her on First and He said the proper way t~ get
i8'************* ***************-"'-"both Wilka (Academic 
Affairs Subsequent Dates, and the along with a college woman like
i SMC Sophomore Class 
*Commissioner Bill) and Mooney 
Courtesies and Sexual Bounds Patricia was to "impress her.with
* oJE (Public ~elation~ D!~ector Don) 
He Employs in His Affairs," was your prowess and good academic
* 
VA LEN Tl N E DAY F L 0 WE R S are w_o~kmg on bJlls. termed a huge success by all in standing."

* 
Jommg Meyers on the Steer-


attendance. In general, Mr. Conant said
* ing Committee are Seniors Ed Mr. Conant was given a that young men engaged in*GIRLS -C•rn•tlons-7SC for one McCartin and Barney Gallagher, prolonged standing ovation upon dating relationships with young
I 
Juniors Bob Hall, Bob McGill, 
his approach to the podium by women should be courteous and
GUYS • Chrys•ntheiiiUms. $1.00 Joe Stankus (an elected repre­the more than one hundred act naturally. He suggested that
sentative from the Hall Presi­
persons attending. Some young men desirous of meeting
for fOUr flOWers dent's Council), and Bob Min­members of the audience were young women should approach
nix, and SMC undergraduates 
seen to arrive one half hour them and say "hello". He
Vansetta Childs and Deborah 
ND Guys -Sign-ups Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday Carvatta. dinner time North + South Dining Halls 
LOST AT MARDI GRAS: 
~MC Girls -Sophomore Senators 
Hand-made rust plaid

* 
Maxi-coatFor Furt!ter Information call: 4971

can 4137 or 5261 ** 
REWARD

* 


ahead of time in order to claim warned, however, that a young 
their seats. man should always follow "the 
Dress, for the most part, was principles set by civil and 
quite formal, and it was evident judicial law." 
that many of the attendant Following a round of applause 
personages considered Mr. at the end of his address Mr. 
Conant's address the highlight of Conant agreed to answer 
the current academic year. questions. As an example of the 
Addressing himself to the deftness with 'which Mr. Conant methods young men should fielded inquiries, his response to employ in their dating the question, 'Where is the relationships with young proper place to kiss a girl on the wome)l, Mr. Conant gave his first date'!' was a sure minded audience what one attendant "In front of her house." 
'referred to as "the added After another burst of 
interest of his personal applause following the question­
paramours". answer session the grateful 
Mr. Conant described his past attendants were reminded the experiences with young women next in the series of Howard and following each description Distinguished Lectures will be he advised young men on how to next Sunday again at I 0 pm on handle similar dating the third floor. The public is relationships. He described his cordially invited to attend. 

Notice to all Juniors Planning on Attending 
Junior Parents -Son Weekend 
All tickets must be picked u~ 
this Includes those tickets th•t 

tickets can be picked up at 
tom dooley room Iafortune student center Tuesday + tVednesday, Feb. 9 & 10 7·9 PM 
ALL RESERVATIONS NOT RECONFIRMED BY WED. FEB. 10 WILL BE CANCELLED 
Here's a government position with a real future for both men and women. An officer's job in the Air Force. A management level job in anybody's book. Certainly, there's no better way to get the experience and train­ing needed for executive responsi· bility. 
If you have two years of college remaining; you could find yourself earning an Air Force commission while you learn, through the Air Force ROTC two-year program. Along with college credits and a commission, you'll receive $50each month as a student. And upon grad· uation, that management position we promised will be waiting for you. If an advanced degree is in your plans, you'll be happy to learn that the Air Force has a number of out· standing programs to help you fur­ther your education. 
If you're in your final year of col· 

WANTED: College men and women for man· agement positions in government. Must meet physical requirements. Financial aid available for in· college trainees, or applicants can enroll in special training course on graduation. Stateside and/or overseas travel guaranteed. 
lege, you can get your commission 
through the Air Force Officer Train· 
ing Program.lt is open to all college 
grads, both men and women, who 
qualify. 

Check it out. You'll find that the Air Force is one career that offers something for everyone. Nearly 430 different jobs, ranging from aero­nautical engineering to zoology, with almost everything else, includ· ing flying, in between. But whatever your duties, you'll soon discover that the Air Force will let you move just as far and as fast as your tal­ents can take you. 
So look ahead and let your col· lege years pay off for you with a managerial position in the U.S. Air Force. Just send in this coupon or write to USAF Military Personnel Center, .Dept. A, Randolph AFB, Texas 78148, and get your postgrad­uate career off the ground. 
~-------------;-N;l 
I I 1  USAF Military Personnel Center Dept.ARandolph AFB, Texas 78148  
I I  Please send me more information on:  
0 Officer Training School  
0 Air Force ROTC Program  
NAME  AGE  

(please print) 

ADDRESS 
CITY STATE ZIP 
PHONE DATE OF GRADUATION 
SCHOOL 
I understand there is no obligation. 
1 
Fand yoursel in the lUnited States Air Force 1 
L = = =-=-= J 


