
Vol. VI, No. 8 
• 
OK for day care center delayed by St. Mary's 
Approval of a proposed day can• center for children of ND­SMC faculty and students was postponed Monday by SMC ad­ministrators until organizers can meet certain logistical con­ditions. 
The Happy Day Care Center muct have the administrators' approval because it is scheduled to operate from the clubhouse on the south side of Holy Cross Hall. 
Bob Weaver, co-author and ND student government executive t·oordinator, said the center must present plans to maintain the center up-keep and to move its facilities when the clubhouse is schedult>d for nightime activities. 
"It's a problem of logistics whi<'h poses no real problems," Weaver said. 
on campus 
7:00 
meeting-birch bayh for president committee: organizationaI meeting, alumni hall lounge, in· fo: 1196, 3206, 4694. 

7:00 
meeting-the ski club of nd: european trip, 204 o'shag. 


8:00 
lecture-prof. m. grant. gross, state university of new york: the crisis in wasteland, academic commission en­vironmental series, library aud. 

8:00 
meeting. nd-smc council for the retarded: organizationa I meeting for old and new volun­teers, nieuwland science hall. 



today... 
cou1<1 oe approve<! at next Monday's adminstrators' ml'eting, began to form in May as an outgrowth of a psychology project written by Lynne Mastriana, an SMC senior. 
The proposal, authored by Miss Mastriana, Weaver and SBP John Barkett, lists seven provisions 
They are: --The clubhouse is the "most suitable location" because it is available and approved by the St. Joseph's County Public Welfare Department. --Twenty children ages two to five years are the maximum (:apacity. --The facility should be open 7 
a.m. to 6 p.m. 

--A nine member board of directors, which has been established except for the one administrative representative, consisting of three students three salaried staff members and one administrators. --The three permanent staff members are college trained in child development and ex­perienced. --Insurance coverage is to be provided by a rider in the SMC insurance policy and individually purchased accident insurance. --Otside donations may be solicited to cover expenses. 
Miss Mastriana said she would like to have a five to one ratio of children to modera t0rs and requested student and oarents interested to contact her at 
284-4228. 

Rejects 'Two Chinas' 


Peking resists 'softening' 
(C) 1971 New York Times 
Ottawa, Sept. 20--Peking reportedly informed a number of foreign governments last week that it rejected any softening in the resolution calling for the 
expulsion  of  the  Chinese  
Nationalist  Govern ment  on  
Taiwan.  

This was reported by authoritative diplomats in Ottwa on the l'Ve of the opening in New York of thl' annual session th the (il'neral Assembly, which is t>xpectcd to rule ib Chinese representation in the United Nations. 
Tht> diplomats said that Peking has acted in response to proposals from numerous governments that the reference to the expulsion of the Nationalists be eliminated from the resolution sponsored by Albania and 17 other nations to make it easier for more delegations to vote for it. 
Advocates of softening argued that a decision by the General Assembly to seat the communists in the Security Council and all other United Nations organs would imply the ouster of the Nationalists. 
High officials in Peking were reported to have msisted that the Albanian text remain intact even though they had acknowledged their uncertainty whether ex­pulsion could be achieved this vear because of U.S. efforts on behalf of the Nationalists. 
Tlw Chinese Communists, who have said repeatedly that any "Two Chinas" situation was unacceptable, have rejected any eomprimise, the diplomats said, even though the success of the move by their allies to expel the Nationalists may hang on a 


lnPIRG: ND hosts convention 
by Danny O'Hrien 
Hall Life Commissioner, Bob Higgins, announced today that the newly-formed Indiana Public Interest Research Group <InPIRG l would hold its first state-wide convention at Notre !>arne, Sunday September 26. 
Higgins, who only two weeks ago attended a convention dealing with consumer protection groups of this type at the University of Minnesota, was extremelypleased that Notre Dame had been chosen to host the convention. "This should give lnPIHG the boost that it needs to get started on this campus," he notl'd. "Nader Raider Joe Highland's appearance here last Thursday was a begninning of sorts, but this convention, and the wdl-organized product that it will ycild, will demonstrate to (•vcryone that InPIRG is dt'finitely in the future of Notre Dame. 
Higgins emphasized that although the group was only one week old at Notre Dame it was well on the way toward solid organization. Under the direc­tion of Morrisey Hall residents St>att>d: Pt>te Homer and Bobo Carbone; Standing: Bill Rahner and 


Jt•rry Naglt>; members of lnPIRG. Bill Runner, LJerry Nagle, Pete HtglJI<tnd. Homer and Bob Carbone the In answer to an inquiry as to group has laid a strong foun-the immediate plans for the dation in its brief history. organization, Rahner pointed out 
Rahner was pleased to an-that "This year will be mainly set nounce that the group collected aside for organizational pur­the names of fifty interested poses. We plan to set a number of people at activities night and an goals, and if they are reached this additional twenty-five last year, the group will be ready to Thursday at the speeches given by Congressman Reuss and Joe (continued on page 6) 
...._

• Lynne Mastriana and Sister Alma Peters, C.S.C., principles in yesterday's decision. 
Thursday vote 
Senate elections 
by Mike O'Hare Elections for the Student Senate will take place this Thursday in the dormitories. The hours for voting vary according to hall but usually are scheduled during lunch and dinner. Off Campus students 
handful of votes. 
A ranking diplomat com­mented:' 'Peking distrusts the Americans so much and it is so determined to proclaim the principle that Taiwan is politically part of mainland China that it is prepared to lose votes and even jeopardize its chance of being seated this year rather than make the slighest concession." Without China's 
(continued on page B) 

should vote in the Office for Off Campus Housing. 
The following is the list of the halls and the candidates. The number of senate seats it has is in parenthesis. Alumni (2) Phil Brady, Glen Sorge, Tom Petray, Scott Prentiss Badin (1) Matt Cavanaugh Breen-Phillips (2) David Jones, Phil Reilly Cavanaugh (2) Phil Cernanec, Dick McCarthy Dillon (2) No official candidates submitted Farley (2) Don Ferris, Jack Bennett, Frank Dixon, Ray Capp, Juan Manigault Fisher (1 l James Waddick Flanner Tower A (2) No official candidate submitted Flanner Tower B (2) No official candidate submitted Grace Tower C (2) Michael Henderson, James Large 
(continued on page 3) 

:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:;::~:::~:~:~:~:~:::~=~===~=====::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:~ 
1=1.1=1= '.=.'='··.!=


World Briefs 
.: I(') 1971 New York Times N('WS Service 
Cail·o--The military editor of Egypt's official Middle East press agency reported that Egyptian armed forces have been on "maximum alert " since the recent shooting along the Suez Canal. Emphasis was put on defensive, not offensive, preparedness. Meanwhile, delegations representing the Jordanian government and the Palestinian guerrillas met in Jidda, Saudia Arabia, for the first time in a reconciliation effort in the wake of risin~ tensions between F.l'vnt ;mel T"rAPI 
Karachi, Pakistan--If the leaders of India and Pakistan cannot be brought together for peace negotiations, the United States and the Soviet Union would probably be asked to participage in peace-making efforts, a Karachi newspaper, quoting authoritative sources, disclosed. The U.S. and the Soviet Union are already assisting Iran in its mediation between India and Pakistan, the Karachi Star also stated. 
Washington--The House Ways and Means Committee began con­sideration, behind closed doors, of the tax aspects of President Nixon's New Economic Program which are aimed at stimulating a business upturn and reducing unemployment. The committee tentatively agreed to reinstate the special tax credit for business investment in new equipment but in a simpler form than orooosed hv having a single-rate credit. 
Washington--Some $200 million for emergency public service jobs will be allocated to cities, counties and neighborhoods where unem­ployment has been in excess of six per cent, the Department of Labor announced. The money is part of a $1 billion appropriation made for the current fiscal year under the new public service act. 

Washington--President Nixon was urged by Sen. William Proxmire to withdraw a significant increase in gasoline prices estabiisheci Ly the _oil industry just before the administration's price freeze was imposed. The Wisconsin democrat, who is chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, called the increase "clearly inflationary" even though it went into effect before the wage-price freeze. 
Washingion--Aithough the summer passed without massive urban riots, group and political violence--from civil disordjers to the am­bushing of policement--became so widespread and persistent that som<' authorities believed it was more troubling than the riots during the 1960s. Violence resulting from social unrest has remained at a high level in urban disorders. 

Delays plague new Life Science Building 
Center by such teatures as a
by Greg Pudhorodsky 
radiation suite, for the storage 
In 1964 the original plans for a life science center to replace the Wenninger-Kirsch Building, opened in 1937, were drawn. Seven years later the Galvin Life Science Center, situated between the Convocation Center and Memorial Library, stands as the fulfillment of that plan. 
Though substantially different from the seven story high-rise originally planned, the Life Science Center, which houses the biology, microbiology depart­mPnts and the Lobund Germ­Free Research Laboratories, represents the latest innovations necessary to present properly the multi-faceted fields of the life sciences. 
Originally slated to be struc­turally complete by last spring, the project has been plagued by constructional difficulty throughout the course of its development. The costliest setback came as a result of a prolix delay on the part of the casework prime contractor. While the other three prime contractors involved in the work had finishedninety-five percent of the their initial tasks, the casework is thirty-five percent rrom completion because of an overextension on the part of the contractor. 
Rev. James McGrath, C.S.C., who has been the Life Science Center coordinator for the past two years, speaking on the effects of the delay, said that since other utilities, such as water and electricity, could not be installed until the casework was finished, many parts of the building were still in the primitive construction state. 
McGrath _emphasized, that most of the undone work involved the research facilities of the second and third floors and that prime consideration was given to the bottom two floors, presently in use, which contain the classrooms and laboritories mvolved in undergraduate study. 
The four floor structure, estimated at 1.2 million dollars a floor, a thirty percent increase over the or-iginal estimate, contains the capacity for future development. The penthouse, the Merrimac-like structure crowning the roof, is removeable, 
';'he utilities core, a modern feature in terms of maintenance and addition, is closed off corridor which runs the height of the building, and is designed with a support capacity of two ad­ditional floors. 
McGrath, commenting on the advantages of the new building pointed out that when the Wen­ninger-Kirsch building was constructed many of the recent 
concepts  in  biological teaching  
and  theory  were  yet  to  be  
developed.  These  innovations  

are exemplified jn the Galvin 
160 dinner exchange tickets will be available daily for St. Mary's students to use at Notre Dame dining halls and 100 exchange tickets will be available for ND students to use at SMC, according to Gary Caruso, co-ex dinner 
director. The program will begin Monday Sept. 27. 
The exchange program is flexible, Caruso added, "any group that wants to arrange a special meal should make special arrangements. Actually, there could be an unlimited number of people eating at both campuses." 
Caruso and Ann Sullivan, St. 


and utilization of radioactive isotopes, and an audio tutorial system , which will eventually enable students to have access to lectures or extra material in­depth or beyond the scope of a course. 
Speaking on the structures specificity and yet its flexibility to accomodate facets within its discipline, McGath, who played a major role in the actual design of the structure, said, "Through the many interviews that I had with members of our faculty and on my own work we were able to design a building which meets the specific requirements of the life sciences. The Galvin coordinator continued by adding, "By the University not holding back any in the way of financial assistance, the center is built and equipped with material of the highest calibre. It is something we can all be proud of." 

The Galvin Life ·science Center, designed to hold the department of biology, and microbiology, and the Lobund Germ-Free Research Laboratories. 
$200 million to go for emergency jobs 
(Cl 1971 New York Times the states. 
Washington, Sept. 20--The The allocation announced Department of Labor announced today, under a special section for today how it will allocate $200 pockets of unemployment, is million for emergency public likely to be more favorably service jobs to areas with high received, ~ccording to a unemployment. spokesman for NationalLeague of 
The funds, to be distributed in Cities and United States Con­October, will go to cities, counties ference of Mayors. and neighborhoods where In all, $250 million was ap­unemployment has been in ex-propriated for unemployment cess of 6 per cent. pockets, but Secretary of Labor 
Themoneyispartofa$1billion J.D. Hodgson said he was appropriation made for the reserving $50 million to be used at current fiscal year under the new some later date for "further Public Service Employment Ac~ alleviation of high­the first general act of its kind unemployment areas." since the Works Project Ad-Under the act, the state and ministration of the 1930's. local governments can use the 
Earlier, $600 million was funds to hire persons in a wide allocated under the main section variety of occupations, from of the act to states, counties and garbage collectors to engineers. cities. There were numerous As of last week, Hodson said, complaints about the way these more than 6,000 persons had been funds were allocated, especially hired under the $600 million from mayors who charged that a allocation. disproportionate amount went to The $200 million will be 

ND eighteenth in voluntary donations 
The University of Notre Dame port of all colleges and univer­was 18th among the nation's 1,500 sities in 1969-70 was estimated atsenior colleges and universities $1.8 billion, about 1 per cent lessin terms of voluntary support that the previous year. Privateduring 1969-1970, according to an institutions, however, collec­annual report of the Council for tively reported a decrease of 9Financial Aid to Education. 

per cent, most of it amongNotre Dame received colleges and professional schools. 
$16,073,619 in voluntary support in 1969-70, more than any other .-=­
Catholic university. It also 

I would like to thank all clergy, faculty,and staff for their many Masses, and
ranked fourth among all in­

Mass cards sent to me during my recent illness.
stitutions of higher learning in the total of alumni gifts to the 

Also Father McGrath, Dr. Weinstein, Mrs. Spence, faculty and staff of the annual fund--$2,763,462, a figure 
Biology Department for their kindness tome, also Mr. R. O'Brien, N.D. Band which was also more than any 
past and present members, Irish Guard, Mother Olivette Council, sisters and 
other Catholic university. 

staff of St. Mary's for their many Masses and cards. 
Overall. total voluntary sup­

CO-eX meals begin Sept. 27 
Again many thank~. 
John Fyfe
Mary's representative, will meet with Edmur;td Price, ND food ~===~~~~-====::::;;=;:=========-==============:J
director, and Raymond Perry, r 
SMC food director, this week to devke the mechanism for ob­taining exchange tickets. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
-

EM-EYE-EL-TEE-ESS pronounced MILT'S also pronounced by many 
as the No. 1 restaurant in the downtown area MILT'S GRILL 214 W. Jeff Breakfast -Lunch -Dinner open. 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. 
allocated on the basis of a for­
mula that gives equal weight to 
both the number of unemployed 
and the severity of unem­
ployment. 
So many areas in the United -!;tates have unemployment 
exceeding 6 per cent that the money will be spread rather thinly. However, in order to prevent the money from being dissipated among small govern­ment units, the Labor Depart­ment ruled that no grant of less than $25,000 would be made to any area. 
Examples of how the money will be distributed are as follows: 
--Los Angeles, with a jobless rate over 6 per cent, is receiving $6,890,000 with the understanding that the city will distribute the funds within its boundaries to pockets of severe unemployment as determined by the city. 
--New York, with a jobless rate receive $6,928,200 to be distributed as specified by the Labor Department-$1,177,800 to central and east Harlem; $1,074,500 to west and lower east Manhattan; $1,453,900 to the Bronx Poverty Neighborhood; $759,600 to the Williamsburg­Bushwick section of Brooklyn; $1,357,500 to the Model Cities Neighborhood in Brooklyn; $927,100 to other poverty areas of Brooklyn; and $177,900 to the Van 

Wyck East section :_~ 'Jueens. 
Hodgson said, "I have set a target for us to complete the funding process by the end of October so local officials can begin hiring as soon as possible." 
-
Additional seats for 
PURDUE game Available now at 
Travel Bureau 

of less than 6 per cent, will_===========~ . Requests for: STUDENT GOVERNMENT FUNDS 
DUE: Tuesday, September 28th FORM: Itemized costs on a stencil 
APPLY: Student Government-Allocations Box 369 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
QUESTIONS: 7750 or 3651 

Requests for: MARDI GRAS CHARITY FUNDS ALLOCATIONS DUE: Tuesday, September 28th 
FORM Itemized costs sheet APPLY: Charity Chest Box 639 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
QUESTIONS: 7750 or 3651 

________________________] 


SU resun1es n1ail and bus service 
the ugliest 



words 
•

1n college! 
QUIZ FRIDAY 
on the next six chapters 
Your average reading speed probably ranges between 150 and 300 words per minute. Graduates of the Reading Dynamics course read and study at least 3 to 6 times faster than that. And the average graduate of our course actually improves comprehension over 10 per cent. 
Thousands of college students are Reading Dynamics graduates, including over 1,000 at Notre Dame, Indiana University, and Purdue. This Is the same basic course that first received national recognition when President John F. Kennddy invited Evelyn Wood to the White House to teach her system to top level staff personnel. Recently, President Nixon's staff took the Reading Dynamics course. 
The best way to find out about the remarkable Reading Dynamics course is to come to a free MINI-LESSON. At this you'll learn what It's like to be able to read and study 3 to 6 times faster. You will see a short, enjoyable movie and have all your questions answered. 
Center for Continuing Education Notre Dame Ave. 
Attend 
a free mini-lesson. Increase your reading 50 to 100% on the spot. TODAY & TOMORROW 4,6 and 8 P·M · 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 
The Student Union Services 
Commission has resumed free 
mail service between the ND­
SMC campuses and its weekend 
trips to Chicago's O'Hare Air­
port. 
Commissioner James Scheid 
said on campus mailboxes are 
located in all SMC dormitories 
and outside the Notre Dame 
dining halls and the Library. 
"Last year it was up to the on 
campus mailmen to pick up the 
mail," Scheid said Monday. 
"This year, however, we have 
hired ND and SMC students· to 
pick up the mail and deliver it to 
all dormitories." 
The weekend bus trips will 
leave the Circle every Friday at 
3:30p.m. and return from O'Hare 
at 5 p.m. Sunday. Tickets are 
available at the Travel Bureau 
located in Badin Hall. 
Academic Com. 

plans election 
The Student Government Academic Commission is sponsoring elections to the Academic Council. According to Fred Giuffrida, Academic Commission chairman, "This is a very important election in that the Academic Council is equivalent to the SLC on the Academic level." 
Giuffrida noted that, "There is a big chance for shakeups in this realm with co-education. We need responsible and articulate individuals who will be able to advance and defend the student point of view." 
Applicants will be sent to the college Advisory Councils for interviews. The number of ap­plicants will be cut to three and sent to a larger committee composed of the four advisory council presidents, John Barkett, a faculty member .and an ad­ministrator from the Academic Council, who will have only ad­visory privileges. 
Applications should include an explanation of the candidates qualifications, and must be submitted to the Student Government office by Sept. 27. 
There will be one student selected from each of the colleges. 

The commission also will fo an events calendar to the 
provide several other services Observer and all dormortories. 
throughout the including the --The commission is attempting
following: to secure rights to a franchise on 
--ND-SMC telephone directories, campus of student oriented 
financed in part by the freshman products.
photo directory, will be --An idea for a small leather shop 
distributed Oct. 1. and the re-opening of the Crypt, a 
--Sponsorship of a spring trip to discount record shop, have been 
the Bahamas and co-sponsorship blocked by the vice-president of 
of the Ski Club's Christmas trip to student affairs, according to 
Europe. Scheid. 
--Provision of low cost ad­"I'm afraid the University
vertising for student doesn't want to be responsible for 
organizations. shops underselling the 
--Maintainance of Huddle bookstore," Scheid said. 
Bulletin boards and distribution 


Hesburgh addresses frosh at special lecture session 
by Artie Quinn 
In the first of a series of lec­
tures sponsored by the Freshman 
Year of Studies, University 
President Theodore M. Hesburgh 
spoke last night in Washington 
Hall to a crowd consisting mainly 
of freshmen. Sparked by 
Hesburgh 's humor, the talk was 
unique in that he used his own life 
experiences as examples of how 
the freshmen may contribute to 
society. 
Touching on a wide variety of subjects, Hesburgh mentioned how he has been involved in trying to improve the Notre Dame community over the last twenty years. He also cited the Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. accomplishments of some of the programs with which he has been He told them, "You won't really associated, such as the space live a full life unless somehow program, the Atomic Energy you learn how to give to other Commission, and the Com­people." One thing he hopes the mission on Civil Rights. His point freshmen get out of Notre Dame was emphatically made as he is "to learn to do something reviewed the changes made in well." His advice was to have this country in the past fifteen "compassion, open your mind to years concerning Civil Rights, people everwhere and their and advances made by food problems," to be "competent ­research progran1s. the poor people need somebody to 


Hesburgh pointed out how 20 tE:ach them something," and to per cent of the world's population set up a list of priorities. consumes 80 per cent of its Dr. Emil T. Hofman, dean of resources. In a moving part of his the Freshman Year Office, in­talk Hesburgh said, "I wish troduced Hesburgh and men­somehow I could take all of you tioned that the purpose of the on a two week tour of the world to lecture series is for "freshmen to see how the others live." He learn about what is happening mentioned such places as Hong and who is making it happen." Kong where millions live in "junk The next lecture will be October 4 city" and South Africa where when the speaker will be St. people are forced to live in Mary's College President Sister ·"concrete pig pens." Alma Peters. 
Senate election candidates listed 
(continued from page 1) 
Grace Tower D (2) Mark Quadrini, James Lewis, Mark Wilcox Holy Cross (1) Jack Mardoran Howard Hall (1) John McHugh Keenan (2) Jim Diette, Mike Boyle Lyons Ed Graham, Gary Caruso 
•.James Guerra William Ladelle, Joe Roe Morrissey (2) Gene Slason Pangborn (2) Charles Luken St. Edward's (1) George Kovacs, Frank McLaughlin Sorin (1) Paul Ruschman, Tim Omnick Stanford (2) No official candidate submitted Walsh (1) Gerald Bushelman ~ahm (2) Phil Carey, Robert 
Germaine, Thomas Eichlen, Bill Kane Off Campus (5) George An­derson, Bill Dues 
SBP John Barkett released the 
following statement of the Senate 
elections: 
''The Senate elections are very important this year. The merger qucstion--particularly regarding th(' two Student Governments ­must be resolved. The com­
munications role which the 
Senate can play might be a 
crucial this year.. 
I'm just hopeful the candidates 
take their jobs as seriously as the 
year demands and that we all can 
make this "transitional" year a 
smooth one and a fruitful one." 


SG budget shows surplus 
The Notre Dame Student Government finished the fiscal year ending August 31, 1971 with a net income from earnings totaling $14,868.82, Treasurer Cass Rejent reported today. 
The statement of operations issued today from Rejent's office showed a total revenue of $234,327.07 from student fees and activities. The Student Govern­mcnt paid out a total of $219,640.25 in grants and ex­penses during the year. 
Rejent reported that the allocation of Student Governn1ent activities fees for the coming fiscal year will be made after proposed budgets are received from the Student Senate on Sept. 28. 

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~==~~----------------­


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER
Editor-in-Chief  Business Manager  
Glen S. Corso  .James Jendryk  
All  successful  newspapers  are  

ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend anyone or anything if they Ad Manager
Executive Editor 
can help it; if the job is forced upon them, 
Bill BauerleT.C. Treanor 

they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. -H. L. Mencken,
Founded November 3, 1966 Notre Dame, Indiana Business 283-7471 News 283-1715 
Tale of Two Bungles 
Awarding Degrees 
The late decision to deny students from the Graduating Class of St. Mary's Notre Dame degrees or even Notre Dame credit for Notre Dame courses, born as it was of a marriage between stupidity and misanthropy, is probably only the first of a series of preposterous administrative blunders destined to come out of this merger. As such, it probably shouldn't fret too many people. But for the SMC seniors who have taken between twenty-five to seventy-five per cent of their hours at Notre Dame, the decision must have been a bitter pill to swallow. 
The dichotomy between Notre Dame and St. Mary's is everywhere apparent. Itis especially apparent at Grad Schools, where a degree from Notre Dame is worth far more than a degree from St. Mary's. To deny women who have specifically taken the risk of signing up for Notre Dame courses, Notre Dame credit for those courses because of an ad­ministrative mistake is more than cruel, it is unfair. 
More than this, itis baffling. How will a St. Mary's graduate explain St. Mary's credits in Communication Arts when St. Mary's doesn't have a Communication Arts department and teaches no Communication Arts courses? Instead of answers, St. Mary's seniors· got this sarcastic com­ment from Sr. Jeanne Finske, SMC Academic Dean, "You should have gone to Harvard, Princeton, or Yale, if you wanted it marked." Of course, four years ago none of those schools were co-ed. 
Whether of not an agreement to provide for the Junior Class will be reached is still an unanswered question. We suggest the Universities answer the question, affirmatively. Soon. It would be tragic to repeat this year's travesty. 
Delaying the Day -Care Center 
Concurrent with the Administrative bungling of SMC degrees, the procrastination about establishing a day-care center is in questionable taste. Given its enthusiatic welcome from Father Hesburgh, Sr. Alma, Fr. Burtchaell and almost everyone else, it appears puzzling that its set­up would be delayed waiting for assurances that the Phineas T. Barnum Club would not be displaced--puzling until one notes the long history of bureaucratic foul-ups at St. Mary's. 
If St. Mary's is committed to establishing a day-care center , it should establish a day-care center. The St. Mary's clubhouse would be an ex­cellent place for it. If the St. Mary's administration is committed to using the clubhouse for the myriad of important things it was used for last year, another empty St. Mary's office should be used. But this continual delay and these feeble excuses have got to stop. 



steve lazar 
Letter Found ln• a Colosseum 
Dear Altimus, 
It has been many days, my good friend, since I last wrote you concerning my travels in these lands west of the setting sun. As you will recall, at the last juncture, I was entering the great nation of the Two Divides. My first impressions of it, general and sweeping as they were, do seem to hold true now no matter where I travel in this broad, energetic land. Everywhere, I find myself discovering healthy and active people, industrious doings and an overall zestfulness of living that displays itself no matter what the season or climate. I find the place rich with excitement, and yet, I would not be telling you the whole of my feelings if I neglected to mention one th_ing --that when I look more deeply into the life here, deeper than the surface appearances, I seem to detect the absence of some essential element that is pervasive and all-important in our neo-atlantian culture. Just what this missing element is I cannot readily. say, but perhaps, you can learn of it if I describe for you one of the most central and exhuberant events of the land. 
What I refer to is a ritual of the hall season, one that I discovered in the midland farming region of the country. It is repeated, however, in nearly every city in the land, and in the warmer southern and coastal climates it goes on even into the winter months. It is called the football game, Altimus. It is an incredible ritual. The central event, the bat­tling of two opposing teams to get an inflated pighide deep into the other's territory is packed with significance, and yet, there is so much mord. Preparations for these games take days. 
There are mass gathering resembling war dances in each team's home area. Rhythmic chanting and drumming are a part of these assemblies as well as the multicolored explosions of fireworks. There are staged appearances of .uotball heroes and their well­loved leaders, leaders who praise the gathered multitudes for their 
possessions of the spirit, a spirit which gives victory. Needless to say, there is supplication of the gods --one, who is called Odin and who dwells in the sky, and the other, called God, who is everywhere. 
On the day of the game itself excitement reaches a peak. It begins with the eating of ritual foods --meat wieners or patties on rolls, garnished with spiced sauces, and drunk with a beverage from grains. The excitement is raised to a higher pitch by powerful outdoor music that blows through the air like hail. With the force of wind it moves you to the depths of your body as you round the corners of buildings. Then, at the appropriate hour, the tens of thousands of spectators stream into the massive colosseum which housed the games . Upon entering, the people are restless with anticipation, but once inside the great oval a change in their at­titude becomes apparent: amazed by its own nameless presence, its sheer shock at seeing itself ringed around the field of battle like witnesses to its own negation, the crowd grows strangely silent. It is an eerie feeling; discomforting. But in a burst the crowd comes back to life as its marching band and its grotesquely suited players make their appearance. In such a peak of excitement the game begins. 
Altimus, I must tell you how I feel about these games: they are games of death. No, I do not mean to be derogatory in saying this. It is a healthy death of which I speak. For in this country, where people are active, yet afraid to die, where the mind in its vain strivings tries to present the body's eternal fulfillment in death, it is no less than healthy to have an exhaustive and cathartic ritual in which the separateness of mind and body is pruged. As you know from the athletic events in our country, participation in such games engrosses one so completely that it is as if he had stepped into another world. One transcend himseld in this way, and thus liberated he is ready and willing to die. 
In all this, Altimus, I find that the society of the Two Divides has a vigorous and healthy culture. However, as I suggested before, despite all this physicalness I feel that there is somethfn"g missing inside. There is something holding the spectators back, something which does not allow the body to be penetrated by the mind in an affirmation of life and an acceptance of death. I began to get these feelings as I observed the people in their pre-game festivities. Although they had the outward appearance of participation in deep­deated ritual, their attitudes were often frivolous and self-mocking as if to say, "I am really not like t}J_is at all. Not at all."I would like to speculate on why this culture has a hollow ring to it, but as I say, its reason will probably escape me. Perhaps it is because the entire ritual of football ritual of football is dependent for ils meaning on victory, and if victory can be celebrated with companions but that each man carries a defeat in his own heart. But perhaps it grows instead out of the non-participant nature if this spectacle. Forced to remain in its place while the liberating activity gods on before it, the body grows frustrated and alienated as do our oxen when kept separated during the mating season. Whatever the reason may be, however, I bemoan its existence as I would bemoan a plague that swept over any nation. This dichotomy of personality tortures me, though , as much as it baffles me. Perhaps I have known a bit of it myself. But this much I do know: it is a ritual emptied of its meaning that gives rise to feelings of self-consciousness among its participants, for it is only the empty ritual that does not allow the self to participate fully in the resonance of those deep dark cages behind the heart. 
At any rate, Altimus, these are my thoughts. I hope you will find them interesting. I can safely admit to you now that I am eager to set sail for own dear homeland where at least there is something I can believe in. 
Love, 


Do they really think I can stop the rain? 
THE OBSERVER 
Pages 


rick smith 

tina did come close 



to turning 

I 

em on 
Due to the unanticipated illness of our regular reviewer, the following is a rather pathetic attempt to tell you what hap­pened, by an irregular reviewer. Your sympathy is welcomed. 
Saturday night's concert was, I guess, pretty typical of the concerts here at Notre Dame except that it was not ended by thousands of screaming meanies pouring over the stage showing how. cool they are and with it. And the only reason that that didn't happen was that the Revue was terminated prematurely. Since it seemed tu me that when Tina first came on, the audience was pretty cold, very polite. It was only when she and Ike went through the "I've been loving you too long" routine <don't bring home any fish tonight mama, daddy's gonna bring lotsa crabs) that there was any rapport between artist and audience. Which is sort of a trademark of Ike and Tina, if not of all similar Soul groups <and all musical groups, come to think of it). 
So the main impressions gained through the concert was that by and large the audience appreciated the music, if only on a banal level. Had the concert gone longer, we might really have gotten into something really great. Or it might have degenerated into the usual mush. 
This isn't much of a technical­sophisticated-intellectual review covering the finer points of the trade. It's just kind of an off the cuff attempt to let you know ~hat happened from my narrow point of view. I'd say that if you are into soul music, you would have found Saturday night pleasurable in many ways, but also would have been somewhat disappointed at the shortness of the thing. If you were me, you would have just gotten a little kick out of the whole scene. So thank you. 

paul dziedzic 

lions 98, christians 2, and closing fast 
By this time even the slowest of fresh­men have learned the ground rules of this "domer-game". You should know a few of the guys on the football team but you can get by if you know a few inside stories about them. More than one St. Mary's girl should by now have written you off as a heartless cad. Or you should have at least convinced your roommates that you've decimated enough hearts to keep Christian B<'rnard busy for a year. But if you're playing that game don't bother to bolster your ego trip by joining the Ombudsman staff. All we do is use our heads to make this place a little more human -and that doesn't impress anybody. Sure, a jock can invite a girl to examine a thigh he's muscled up just for her, but you're not going to get a cloud of dust, let alone three yards, if you offer to muscle up your head for some camp follower. 
So we put a big zero under the column designated "social advantages of being the Ombudsman." But I'm not a masochist. I, and the rest of the Ombudsman staff, get kicks out of handling the job of answering your questions and coping with your problems. In fact, we are able to enjoy sensations that you may have forgottenabout. 
une ot those is the satisfaction of helping somebody out otf a hole. It's a warm glow you get that sits right below htat hangover from last night and right above the heartburn from lunch. The crowd, the rabble, is only capable of complaints. Answers and solutions are much harder to come by but they are surely the better way. Ask Dan Sullivan, a freshman on the Ombudsman staff, who hasn't even had a chance to complain about South Bend's October to April cold spell and won't ever get a chance to run Johnny Dee's name into the ground. Instead of spending his time convincing hes roommates that the campus bus system is the worst tran­sportation disaster to hit Notre Dame since Knute Rockne's plane crashed in 1931, Dan is working out the snags so you won't have to be ten minutes late to that class across the road. 
Jack greeley can give you another case in point. It's easier to let somebody else worry about the world's problems than to commit yourself to helping, say, kids with leukemia. But, if you can stand to have people tell you "I don't believe in leukemia" when you ask for donations on a football weekend and if you can get some friends to swallow their pride enough to wear floppy buttons with "leukemia" scribbled on them you can collect $300 on a Saturday morning. 
But the enjoyment of being able to help get football tickets for freshmen who forgot to pick their's up or to find a place for the karate club to practice is not the whole of being on the Ombudsman staff. It's dealing with people, especially the not infrequent nuts, that provides another dimension to our job. Not all of our calls are from the "Troll of St. Mary's Drawbridge" who wanted the Om­budsman to stop the sun from shining. We don't get many who complain that Father Burtcfiaell double parked his chariot in front of a water fountain on the eighth floor of Grace Tower. Not all our calls are like that --just enough to make all the trouble worthwhile. 
Calls like that keep us going. But our most persuasive incentive is the conviction that even in the midst of all the complaints what you really want are the answers. 
e non -vio ence 

program presents: 
sr. patricia mcneal 
peaking on , 'the catholic left today at 4:15 in nieuland and on wednesday and 
thursday at 4:15 the 

fi I m 'the holy outlaw will be shown in 

Page 6 THE OBSERVER 

CLASSIFIED 
ADS InPIRG to meet at ND 
(continued from page 1) 

Need ride from N.Y. area to Notre Dame on any home football weekend. Call Jack 289-7433. 
For Sale: 1965 Focd Falcon :m OOllars. Cali:Z!4-5800 after 11:00 p.m. 
New Posters of all varieties in stock at great prices. Come to 815 Flanner or 611 Grace or call 1694 or 1167. 
Need ride to Dayton, Ohio or vicinity for this Friday. Will share expenses. Call 1441. 
Furnished efficiency apart­ments, private baths, private parking lot. Direct Notre Dame Bus Line. Couples or 
two students. $86.60 monthly. 233-3257. 
Part time . work selling an investment program. Must work 10 hr. minimum at your convenience. Earn $150 a week. Commission. Call Jim Earl. 233-1591. 
function at full speed next Sep­

THE NATIONAL LAMPOON: 
tember."

Share in the wisdom and insanity 
Not the least of these goals is

of America's College Humor 
educating the students and other 

Magazine. Subscribe now and 
members of the Notre Dame

save $1.00 over regular sub 
community about the purpose

scription rate, $4.00 over 
and intent of the InPIRG. Gerry

newsstand. Call for information. 
Nagle hopes this can be done
Paul 6868 or George 6843. 

"through a large advertisingWill work on Volkwagen's -11 
campaign. We plan to use years experience -reasonable. Call 272-3980 or 272-2765 after 4: oo organization of Notre Dame's chapter of InPIRG. We also intend to set up information centers in the library." 
posters  ongmaUy,  and  then  
leaflets  which  explain  the  
purposes,  workings,  and  

Indiana University's con­vention coordinator, Brian Schuster hoped that there would 
p.m. 


Soviet Jews petition UN 
ND-SMC FROSH DIREC­TORY -Student Union Offices 

seeking aid in emigration
4th Floor La Fortune -1:00­5:00 
(C) 1971 New York Times 

For Sale: Stereo Cassette player ­
MOSCOW, SEPT. 20--More

Speakers $150 -1401 -153 
than 900 Jews have signed an
Cavanaugh 
open letter to the Soviet leaders 

1'------------~ Woodard Cosmetics. Call 272­
as 3,000 Jews from about 20

'65 Impala Convert. 396-ss, 
Soviet cities and towns, half of
1174

Automatic, Power Steering, 
them in the Soviet Republic of

Power Brakes, Blue, Real 
Ulcerlass students interested ir.l Georgia, the appeal is believed to
Sharp, $625. Edison Park 
joining a growing group of. be the result of the most widely
Sunoco. Corner of Edison and 
student market investors, call coordinated signature-collection
Ironwood. 
233-3893. 

~----------~~--~~--;
Men's and ladies' watches, Babysitting in my home diamond rings, jewelry of all ages 3 and up. Full or part types. Brand name, complete time. 2419 Riverside Drive, line, not hot. Call Tom 3575. South Bend. 287-1777. 
~~--------------------4 
LOST -I.D. and football ticket. )esperate -Need Navy and Vicinity of N.D. Bookstore ~lichigan State Tickets -Call Reward offered. Call Dave, 1930 ~evin 1285 
Wanted: Cheap used Bike. Good ------------­Condition. Louise 4006 NEW 8-TRACK TAPES. ONLY $3.50. Call 6715.
Typing Wanted: Theses manuscripts. Experienced: -accurate typist. Jane Smith 233_ • TERMPAPERS AND campaign by an unknown number of the Soviet Union's two million Jews to emigrate to Israel. Emigration for all Soviet citizens is restricted, and permission is granted only after a complete background in­vestigation. Persons who are employed in sensitive security positions or who are of military age are generally barred from leaving. 
The rate of Jewish emigration spurted earlier this year, rising to perhaps as many as 1,400 in April. Since then the number of monthly exit permits has declined, but the rate is still above that of lat year when only be "as many as fifty or sixty representatives from 10 to 15 campuses around the state." The meeting, he noted, will be ecucational for the most part, with the delegates trading ideas about .the newly-formed group. 
The convention is scheduled to begin at 12:30 Sunday afternoon in the Fiesta Lounge of the Student Union. Schuster expects it to last about four hours. 
Those interested in attending as Notre Dame representatives should contact the Notre Dame coordinators at 3610. 
CARPET TOWN 
U·S·A· 223 N. Lafayette South Bend Ind. 
Phone 234-4086 Carpet Remants 
Save Y2 Make your 

ANYONE INTERESTED IN JOINING A STUDENT FLYING CLUB CONTACT WALT AT 234-5566 OR .BILL AT 1840. 
DREAM JOB No house to house. Part or Full Time. Weekly Income $40-$100 showing make-up techniques. Vivianne 
4029. 

DEBATE: Organizational meeting for new members, 7 P.M. Tuesday, Room 1-E La For­tune. 
Foc Sale: 2 MSU tickets. can Tom 287-2731. Leave message. 
"Beat Purdue" T-Shirts and any special order T..Shirts available. Call 7907. 
Need good lawyer to defend dentist in paternity suit. Call 1479. 
Adorable kittens, absolutely free. Call 288-7590. Mter six p.m. 
Wanted 10 speed bicycle in good condition. Call Michael THEMES written by professionals in Speech, Rhetoric, Psychology, History, Biology, etc. 
Original paper -$3.50 per page Duplicate paper -$2.00 per page. Cash, Money Order, or Bank Draft. QUALITY COLLEGE TERMPAPERS 
P.O.  Box  193,  Rockford,  
Illinois 61101.  
···--­ 

----~---­

1. 
Classified ads paid for in cash when ordered. 

2. 
Officehrs.12:15-5:00. ads in, by 3:00 on day before publication. 


Notify us of any mistakes in your ad. Thanks, Kirk. OBSERVER CLASSIFIED 
and to the United Nations General Assembly demanding assistance in emigrating to Israel. 
The petition, evidently timed to coincide with the opening of the 26th General Assembly tomorrow, was made available to foreign newsmen. 
Representing perhaps as many 

.fords 1 day 2 days 3 days 4 days 
1 week~ 
1-10  .so  .15  1.00  1.15  1.25  
11-15  .60  1.00  1.35  1.75  2.15  
11-ZO  .10  1.15  1.10  2.40  2.80  

21-ZS .85 1.35 
2.00 2.90 3.45 

Academic Council 
Zl-30 

1.00 1.60 %.35 3.49 4.1 
are due Sept 27.
31-35 

l.Zt 1.10 
2.80 3.85 Ut 
...... 

1.35 Z.lt 3.11 4.25 5.10 
Include a short resume of your
41-45 

1.51 Z.30 3.38 4.50 
"'·50
... 

1.15 Z.SI 3.50 4.75 .... 
qualifications, and leave appplication in Student Government office 
effort since Soviet Jews began to campaign for emigration in recent years. 
Calling on the Soviet leadership to change its policy barring unhindered emigration, the petition said: 
"The issue of free emigration of Jews to Israel is not a new one and is becoming more acute with every passing day. More and more Jews realize and then openly proclaim that they do not want to assimilate with other peoples. This movement has its historical causes and cannot be stopped by administrative directive. 
"Here, in the U.S.S.R., where there is no Jewish culture or national life, where there are no Jewish schools or Jewish theaters, where there is no possibility of studying Yiddish or the culture and history of the Jewish people, where the un­precedentedly low percentage of Yiddish-speaking Jews is declining from day to day, in this country there is no future for us as Jews." · 
Affirming that they wanted to live in a Jewish state "as equals among equals," the signers charged that "Here, in the Diaspora, we are permitted only to sit in a synagogue or to rest in a cemetery under the Star of David." 

\ 
The petition represented theI latest effort in a continuing 
--1. 1 1

~at~b~ou~t~I~,OO~O~le~f~tJ~·n~t~h:e~e~nt~ir:e~y~e~a~r~.~iW~WI~~~~~..IW..~~ 

Student Government 
Constitutional Merger 


Committee 
needs people and ideas for the new constitution, to be effective April 1, 1972. Anyone who can 
offer ideas on any part of the structure should contact Ed Ellis 8028 or7663,or come to the next meeting, 9: P.M. tonight in 
the Grace Tower Pent House. 

Applications for the 


Page 7 

Ara amiable, Alex angry Sat. 
by Jim Donaldson 
Sports Editor 

Northwestern coach Alex Agase was in no mood to answer any questions Saturday. 
Disgusted over the 50-7 drubbing his Wildcats had been given by the Fighting Irish, Agase's only comment was, "We got the hell beat out of us and that's all there was to it." 
Maurie Daigneau, the 'Cats quarterback, was not so close­mouthed as his coach. 
"Notre Dame has the best front four I've ever seen. Patulski is just great." 
Big Walt and his defensive chums earned Daigneau's respel't by consistently putting th<' Wildcat quarterback on the seat of his pants Saturday. 
Northwestern had been beat-.!n by Michigan in the season opener for both clubs the week bdore the 'Cats played the Irish. Daigneau was much more impressed by Notre Dame's talent than the Wolverines'. 
"Notre Dame is by far the better team," Daigneau com­mented. "If ever a team deserved to be number one, it's Notre Dame." 
There were few people on hanc Saturday that would have argued about the fact that the Irish have another powerhouse ball club. Their vaunted defense put on a great show and both Bill Etter 
Mike P a v lin ====::.=============..m:*-==-":==~===:.-===:=::.-::::=~==:::=:=:=:w;;.==~~==~===·;.::::::.-:x, 


The Graduate View 

First off, let me extend my sympathies to Willie Townsend. 
Seldom, if ever, in the history of ND football has one receiver been so open, so deep, so long, and been so consistently over and un­derthrown. 
With .Joe Theismann at the helm, Willie might have had several touchdowns. But Joe is gone and the Irish passing attack shows it. 
It's difficult to find fault with an offense that provides five touch­downs. And I'm not outto castigate anyone. I'd just like to point out a few things. 
I congratulate Ara Parseghian on his really quite daring and op­timistic game plan. Knowing the condition of his passing attack, Parseghian could easily have played Wishbone-Tall day and probably won just as handily. But Ara chose to work on his passing under game conditions, definitely the right move. 
The Irish attempted 27 passes and spread them 10-8-8-1 on the four downs. This is the way to plan a passing attack. Ara stayed away from the "run-run-pass" series that generally allows the defense to do what it pleases. 
Taking a closer look at the passing, however, we find some discouraging notes. First, obviously, the Irish QB's couldn't complete anything (9 of 27). Secondly, the completions went for very little yardage, 114 yards. This is an average of 12.7 but discounting the 32­yarder to Bill Gallagher, the average is 10.2. Thirdly, the Irish receivers were constantly open. Tom Gatewood and Townsend were able to split the NW defense on quick slants over the middle, while Townsend ran some fine down and outs. 
Of the nine completions, only one went for any long distance--Bill I<:tter's pass to Gallagher. The next two longest completions were screen passes, 18 yards to Gatewood and 16 to Larry Parker. 
The Irish QB's simply have not yet been able to work out their timing with their receivers. Note these two tings. No hook patterns wt>re thrown to Mike Creaney. No medium-range down and outs were completed. Townsend shook loose on one such pattern only to have Etter wait too long to release the ball, almost resulting in an in­terception. 
Hook and down-out patterns are dependent upon split-second timing. Maury Daigneau (when he had time) was able to hit Jim Lash all afternoon on hook patterns. 
Etter and Pat Steenberge cannot be content with last Saturday's desultory performance. I'm sure Ara can vividly recall the 1965 Michigan State fiasco when the ground game was destroyed and no passing existed to save the Irish. 
On the bright side offensively, the running game worked well. The backs averaged about 4 yards a carry with Etter leading the way with 59 yards. Parseghian got excellent performances from his second string backs, particularly John Cieszkowski and Bob Minnix. Townsend has emerged as a Gatewood-type threat in the receiving corps. 
It is a little soon to judge the effectiveness of the Wishbone-T sequence since such plays usually ended up being QB keepers. Still, I<:tter and Steenberge ran the options well. Whether they can hit the trailing halfback with the timing required remains to be seen. 
The defense certainly lived up to expectations. The front four simply refused to allow Daigneau to set up. Again, congratulations to Ara for the timely insertion of Ken Schlezes in a "prevent defense." The light fingered foursome of Schlezes, Clarence Ellis, Mike Crotty and Ralph Stepaniak accounted for seven interceptions (record tied) and 185 return yards (new record). 
and Pat Steenberge performed solidly, if not spectacularly, at the quarterback position. 
.Just who would be the Irish field general this season had been the source of much speculation among the Notre Dame faithful. Saturday's outing didn't provide an answer to the "quarterback question", but it did put the minds of many fans at ease. Steenberge and Etter, working together, got the job done. 
"I was pleased with the way that both Etter and Steenberge performed at quarterback," coach Ara Parseghian said in the Irish locker room after the game. "Each man did what he does best, well. I thought Steenberge ran the team well, he made good play selections, and I feel that Bill Etter ran with the ball very well," Parseghian commented. 
I 
Ara Parseghian 

"I had decided to play both, according to the situation, before the game," he said. "Although this is the first time I have alternated quarterbacks, we will continue to do so if the cir­cumstances dictate it." 
The difference in attitude in the Irish and Wildcat locker rooms was as varied as the point totals on the scoreboard. Agase was light-lipped and angry and his players wasted little time in dressing and getting on the bus for home. 
In the Notre Dame dressing 
room, the mood was a happy one. 
There was lots of activity and 
talk in the crowded quarters as 
the players relished their victory 
and discussed the game with 
friends and newsmen. 
Ken Schlezes, a junior who intercepted three passes, tying the all-time Irish mark for pass thefts in a game, could be heard talking about the best day in his college career. 
"I went in for O'Malley in passing situations. I just watched the quarterback and played the ball." 
Patulski towered above the circle of reporters around him and patiently answered a variety of questions. 
Bill Etter, happy to be back in an Irish uniform again after a year's absence, remarked that, "I felt terrific out there. I have more confidence now than I had two years ago. I wasn't nervous a bit." 
Everywhere in the Notre Dame dressing room, smiling faces could be seen. Ara was as pleased with his charges as Agase was unhappy. Agase explained his club's poor showing briefly. 
"If you can't run the ball you can't win. When we ran into the line and only gained a yard or two, we were forced to throw. Notre Dame had the people to pick them off." 
Parseghian was quick to point out that the score wasn't in­dicative ofthe type of ball club the Wildcats have. Few people had thought that the Irish would breeze to victory. 
Harriers 2nd in quadmeet 
The Notre Dame cross country 
team finished second in a 
quadrangular meet held Friday 
on the Burke Memorial golf 
course. Miami of Ohio easily took 
top honors while the Irish edged 
Northwestern for the runner-up 
spot. Illinois State finished 
fourth. 
Three Miami runners were 
among the first five finishers as 
the Redskins posted• an im­
pressive score of 32. Notre 
Dame's five scorers totaled 54, 
Northwestern's, 58, and the Ill. 
St. dele~ation registered 68. 
Dennis Sayham of Miami took individual honors at the meet, covering the course in 24:45. Chuck Porter of Northwestern was second with a time of 24:51 and Dean Reinke of Miami placed third in 24:55. 
Also finishing in the top ten were John Keane, Ill. St.,Bob Reef, Miami, Dan Dunne, Notre Dame, Dan Pittenger, Ill. St., D..ve Bell, Notre Dame, Jim Slaven, Miami, and Bill Jarocki, Northwestern. 
In addition to Dunne and Bell, Mike Gahagan, Jeff Eichner and Marty Hill scored for the Irish. Gahagan was 11th, Eichner, 14th, and Hill, 15th. 
The meet was the first of the season for Notre Dame, coached by Alex Wilson. 

_ 

"We're not that good and 
mistakes which we capitalized

they're not that bad-but we were 
on," Parseghian continued. "The 

today," Ara said. "Our defense 
turnovers made the difference." 

did an outstanding job. Nor­
Coach Parseghian has 

thwestern's running attack 
remarked on several occasions 

wasn't good enough to keep us 
this fall that, "There are a 

honest and we were able to use a 
number of ways to win games."

heavy pass rush." 
His Irish displayed a pretty good way Saturday. It kind of makes "The defense forced Nor­you wonder what they'll show us 
thwestern to make a number of next weekend. 
..



Irish Items 
In the past six years, Notre Dame st ;dent-athletes have been awarded 20 llcademic grants for graduate study. Lastseason's Co­captain, Larry DiNardo, received three such grants last year and is now attending the Notre Dame law school. Irish football players have accounted for 12 grants. 
Not one senior from the 1970 Fighting Irish football team is listed on any National Football League roster this season. 
Ruggers top West. Mich. 
Giorgio scores twice in Irish win 
A pair of trys by Herb Giorgio t•arried the Notre Dame rugby club to a hard fought, 8-3 victory over Western Michigan Saturday morning behind Stepan Center. The match was the first of the season for the Irish. 
Good passes from captain Rich Campagna and fly-half Pat Krueger enabled Giorgio to cross the Western Michigan goal with the only Irish scores of the day. 
Although the score was close, the Irish dominated the action, despite being shorthanded much of the game, and missed several scoring opportunities. 
The Irish "B" team had an easier time recording their first win of the of the year, dumping the West. Mich. "B" squad, 16-0. Fred Manley, Chuck Stimac and .John O'Connor scored trys for Notre Dame and Ed O'Connell booted a pair of conversions. 
Both the "A" and "B" teams will be in action again next 
In 82 seasons of football since 1887, Notre Dameteamshave won 526 games, lost 143 and tied 38. This is a .786 winning percentage, exclusive of ties. 

Track meeting scheduled 
I 
Anyone interested in par­ticipating in the varsity track program is invited to attend a meeting tonight at 5 p.m. in the A.C.C. 


V:} -.. 

. . 
••. ..,., -l ! ,,
• 
•'·. .·,· 
·~ .. 
·"· . ' 
llerb Giorgio weekend, traveling to Cleveland to play John CarrolL 

Page 8 
Letters to the editor 
Editor, 
I have to give credit to a few guys who averted what could have been a major panty raid on Wednesday evening. As it turned out, only a major pep ralley occurred. 
These four guys decided that the situation was out of hand, and stopped the excited crowd at the Grotto to talk to them for a minute. They pointed out that if the pep ralley ended like the panty raid of two years ago, then Mr. Stepan and the Board of Trustees would probably con­sider John Barkett's statement that the students are responsible enough to enforce rules a mere rhetorical comment. As it turned out, the little pep talk at the grotto resulted in an orderly and harmless pep ralley, not panty raid, at St. Mary's. 
My hat is certainly off to the four courageous guys who stood up to at least 800 others in hopes of attaining respect towards the 
I''' 
ND student. Thanks to Tom Gies, Pete McVoy, Herb Eastman, and Gary Caruso. 
Jay Hayes Lyons Hall 
Editor: 

The saddest and most over­whelmingly depressing aspect of the latest Trustee-student con­frontation is the terrible feeling of deja vu it recalls for those of us who have watched similar battles in years gone by. Despite the sincere wishes on the part of every thinking person on this campus, we have not been able to move past the question of hall, and ultimately student autonomy; we have been con­sumed by a ridicuously banal game of Beat the Clock and Watch the Cop. I cannot help but be filled with a deep sense of frustration --please people, there ARE other things in the world to worry about than 2 a.m. and Indiana drinking statutes. Will the time ever come when people will be able to do more than habitate on this campus, com­plaining and Jiving for summers and graduation. Or will people someday be able to see the campaign promises of everybody since Richard Rossie come to fruit --will the quality of life ever improve here? I fear not, unless we realize that we stand exactly where we stood four years ago as far as hall life is concerned, and that is certainly not progreEs. 

Sincerely, 
Tom Gies 
341 Lyons 
Editor: 

I am writing this letter in response to the article "En­forcement has little effect" of Sept. 13. The article quoted me, but some clarification is needed in regard to one statement. It seems that your interviewer took one comment out of context, and the statement can easily be misconstrued by your readers. 
You claimt•d in your article that St. Edward's Hall had a number of "section parties." Such parties are specifically against the Trustees recent statement to Fr. Hesburgh. When I was interviewed, I pointed out that parties were held in different sections, but drinking was restricted to private rooms, in accordance with the reem­phasized SLC statement. As you are all aware, the term "section party" here at Notre Dame has a much different connotation--i.e., drinking in the corridors, in the lounge and so on. Such behavior did not occur in our hall, as the men are well aware of these regulations, an so enforce lhem themselves. 
If one were to go by your ar­ticle, it would seem that St. Ed's blatantly violated University regulations. As I stated before, this is not the case. 
I hope you will clarify this point in the nexy issue of the Ob­
St'l"Ver. 
Sincerely yours, 
Martin Siemon 
President 
St. Ed's Hall 
Editor: 

We as students who eat at the South Dining Hall want the 



Want Taiwan out 
people who work at the South Hall especially the men who take care of the Hall mainly speaking of the managers what a good job they are doing. We appreciate everything. All cold drinks, ice, the food and service. We know you people get a lot of complaints about food, service, etc. As one of the students who eats at the South Hall I want to thank the dark tall man who helped me when I wanted an answer to some questions. We only wished more people would be co-operative as South Hall. 
Observer: 
What is happening to Notre Dame tradition? I see all shapes and sizes of undergraduates using the front stairs of the Ad­
ministration Building. 
I feel the front stairs to the "Golden Dome" should be used only by Alumni. This is one small tradition which should be 
preserved. An Alumnus '67 




Peking may refuse UN. seat 
The report of Peking's desire to (continued from page 1) see the Assembly reaffirm the wartime declarations on Taiwan 
concurrence, Albania and her co­
suggested to qualified diplomats 
sponsors will have no leeway to 
allow  their  resolution  to  be  
amended,  according  to  the  
diplomats.  

Other diplomatic reportes reaching Ottwa said that Peking has indicated its desire that the General Assembly also reaffirm the Big Four's declaration in 1943 and 1945 that Taiwan must be restored to China. The future of Taiwan is certain to come up when President Nixon veets in Peking with Chairman Mao Tse-Tung and Premier Chou En-Lai. 
Send THE OBSERVER home ( or to a friend) 
MAIL YOUR CHECK $14 I year $8 I semester to • • 
PO Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
NAME__________ 
ZIP__

ADDRES~---------­
SENT BY___________ ADDRESS_________ RENEWAL D 
yes 

New mailing to start with Sept.~ 22nd edition. 
here that the communitst might go so far as to refuse to enter the United Nations--even if Nationalist China is expelled--in the absence of such a reaf­firmation. 
China's long-term strategy, it was said, may attach greater imprtsnce to the status of Taiwan than to a United Nations seat. 
On numerous occasions, ranking officials in Peking have expressed their concern that the United States and Japan would strive to turn Taiwan into an "independent" state if the Nationalists were ousted from the United Nations. 
It was noted that Peking of­ficials had been privately ex­pressed doubts that expulsion could be achieved this year because of the United States' determination to save the nationalists' Assembly seat when the Communists were admitted. 
The officials lJ.S. position on this question of "dual representation", as expressed in the draft resloution to be presented tomorrow, is that Communist China should be admitted as one of the five per­manent members of the Security Council" but that the United Nations should affirm "the continued right of reresentation of the Republic of China." 
The diplomats here noted any Chinese demand that the assembly take a stand on the status of Taiwan--which Peking considers an internal matter-­might throw new support to the lJ.S. resolution. The diplomats said it could not be concluded that Peking, believing that the American resolution will be voted, has chosen to score political points that will be im­portant in the future. 

.[______________________________ 

Anyone interested in 
working overseas this summer must attend the meeting tonight 
Tuesday Sept. 21, at 7:30 
in the Engineering Aud. 






