-~-­

~,QE~er prof. to sue, SMC 
A former St. Mary's professor the complaint; attornies for the for Distinguished Professor­has notified the college ad­college have sent a letter to the ship." He further states that all ministration of his intent to sue Board acknowledging receipt of Distinguished Professorships the school because he was the notice; and a reply is ex­have been given to whites and allegedly denied a teaching pected "soon." "all of them put together cannot position "on the grounds of race Prof. Geoffrey was a member supersede my background which and creed." of the SMC Art Department is the finest and has won the 
Professor Iqbal Q. Geoffrey faculty from September 1967 until finest acclaim." recently filed his complaint and June 1968. Prior to that, he served Another example which points listed his charges with the South as human rights attorney at the to a policy of discrimination, Bend Human Relations Board. United Nations from 1966-1967. according to Prof. Geoffrey, is He claims that he was also He is a native of Pakistan, a that in its 125 year existence, St. refused as a candidate for the Semite and claims to be a direct Mary's has employed very few SMC presidency for the same descendent of Mohammed. blacks, except for janitorial or reasons. The Observer received Although only 32, he holds three custodian positions. "They have two carbon copies of the formal Ph.Ds, including an honorary never considered a black man for complaints in which the professor doctorate in law from Harvard. an administrative position," he claims he can produce "cir­He is the only professor in St. claims. "The same holds true for cumstantial and documentary Mary's history to be nominated Notre Dame. I don't believe that evidence." for Distinguished Professorship. people should be denied jobs on 
Prof. Geoffrey plans to sue In a recent interview Prof. the basis of color, creed, personal SMC because he feels some good Geoffrey further elaborated on beliefs, etc., but according to will come of it, and he expressed the subject. He remarked that their qualifications." Prof. 
confidence that he would win. during the period 1967-1968, he did Geoffrey termed his case "They don't have a leg to stand not experience anything that he exemplary. on," he said. "Personal glory would term "discrimination." When asked why he left St. means nothing to me, for I would "My work was sufficiently Mary's, Prof. Geoffrey said that rather be remembered as a man liked, my relations with the he disagreed with most of Fr. 
who stood fast for what he students were good, and I was the McGrath's policies. There was believed in." first professor in SMC history to also some mix-up concerning a When asked about the charges be nominated for Distinguished visa which he had to visit London made against SMC, Acting Professorship. Not until Fr. over the summer. Supposedly it President Sr. Alma Peter and McGrath <Msgr. John J. had been approved by both the Francis Jones, SMC attorney, McGrath was President of SMC U.S. Department of Immigration both declined to comment. when he died last summer.) and the college administration, Academic Dean Sr. Jeanne came to SMC did I experience but Prof. Geoffrey claims that Finske claimed she "knew discrimination here." He went on Fr. McGrath later "pulled nothing about the man." to cite examples from .his own strings", and he was unable to A spokesman for the South personal experience. He claimed get back into the country. Con­Bend Human Relations Board that " ...I was verbally told that sequently, he lost his job and was said that no action has yet been because of my race and religion &tranded in London. Later, the 
taken--SMC has been notified of etc., SMC could not consider me U.S. Attorney General wrote him 
Rally, march mark protest 
By Kevin McGill Telegrams from Senator Vance Nagu led some sixty students to Hartke calling for an end to the the Selective Service Office. They 
Notre Dame marked yester­war and Senator Edward Ken­walked along the sidewalk andday's moratorium and com­nedy commending the Refugee chanted "All we are saying ismemorated the deaths at Aid Program were read to the give peace a chance" through the Jackson and Kent State with a large group that assembled on city and into the Sherlandrally on the South Quad and a 
the quad around noon. Building.
peaceful march to the Selective Service office in South Bend. 
Leaders of the march hadAiming to "stop business as Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C., 
telephoned the office before they usual," the Notre Dame Peace Director of the Campus Ministry, began, and they found the doorsAction Group urged students to said a mass which marked the locked. Police officers insideboycott classes. Only four end of the month long drive for refused to allow the marchers tomarshalls turned up at eight the Refugee Aid Program. 
enter as a group and talk with the o'clock to picket buildings, but by Following the mass were a office personnel. There were noeleven more people were at the number of speakers. 
selective service officials there,main buildings and dining halls only secretaries.
holding signs and distributing Marshall d 'Arcy, a veteran The protesters sat down whileflyers. who had been to the demon­they were allowed to enter the
strations in Washington, spoke 
office one at a time. The students 
bitterly about the government's 
who were admitted were
attempt to end the warCo-ex tickets replaced politically. photographed by a police officer. 
Each student was allowed to 
Co-ex dinner tickets have been talk to one secretary who refused
Mrs. Marice Nagu, a obtained to replace those stolen representative to the Paris Peace to answer all questions not 
from the Student Union office dealing with the individual's
talks with the People's Peace 
Monday night. Twenty-five draft file. Because of this, many
Treaty, said that she did not want 
tickets will be available on a protestors asked technical
her son returned home from a
"first come-first serve" basis for questions about the draft rather 
war dead. "The enemy is not in
each night up to and including than discussed the morality of the
Hanoi but in Washington," she
Saturday, May 15th. They may be war.
said. 
obtained from Pat Molinaro, At one point, the group 
student government Secretary, in promised to leave if the selective 
Former Observer Features
LaFortune each weekday bet­service office would stop its
Editor Dave Lammers told of his 
ween 1 and 5 p.m. Tickets must business at an early time, but the 
participation in the recent
be picked up in person and a meal office refused.
Washington demonstrations and
card must be shown. Declaring support for the
his subsequent arrest. Tim
These tickets are good only the nationwide moratorium, Lam­
Kendall, who faces a possible
date stamped on the ticket. mers said for the entire group,
prison term for draft evasion,
Sunday tickets are good for either "We are here because the war in
said, "There is no such thing as
the noon or evening meal. Vietnam, Laos, and Cambodia is
not being involved in the war,"
All of the stolen tickets are now not ending, it is continuing to
and appealed to the people to do
invalid. St. Mary's meal checkers destroy the citizens, children,
"much more than simply enough 
have been instructed to check and land of Indochina with
to ease their consciences."
closely to see that none of them bombing, defoliation, and the 
killing of civilians.
are used. After several more speakers, Tom Vanderputten and Mrs. (continued on page 6) 
an apology, not giving him the stamp of Notre Dame, dangling
details of the misunderstanding, in yesterday, and needs to be 
but just apologizing, he added. awakened. Four years ago it was 
Prof. Geoffrey gives his one of the best girls' colleges in reasons for applying for the the country, although it was not presidency of SMC as twofold: he 
as progressive as it could havewishes to see how the ad­been, but it went downhill after

ministration would respond, and he "wanted to right · Fr. Fr. McGrath." 
McGrath's 'wrongs.' " Supported 
Prof. Geoffrey claims that

by "considerable" ad­
within 5 years he could makeministrative experience in higher SMC one of the best colleges ineducation, Prof. Geoffrey feels he the country. "I have modern was fully qualified for the job. 

ideas that would be beneficial toWhat would he have done were SMC; and I am in favor of avant­he given the SMC presidency? 

garde education." He did not give "SMC would no longer be sub­concrete details as to what hestandard," he asserts.· "Today 

would do.

SMC is a 'dead' college, a rubber 
Reagan annoyed by tax payment inquires 
UPI -Gov. Ronald Reagan, jokingly told a capitol news 

who paid no state income tax for conference, "I hope to learn 
1970, refused to answer yesterday 
whether he also paid no federal today how to avoid paying state 
tax and called such inquiries "an income taxes. I've been paying 
invasion of privacy." very heavily for many, many 
Reagan told a newsman he years." 

should be "ashamed" for even Mayor Sam Yorty told a Losasking. 
Angeles news conference the tax 
structure "badly needs an 
"Obviously, I would have overhaul" because low wage

preferred to make money and earners are the hardest hit. State 
owe a tax than to lose money and 
therefore pay a tax," said Sen. Nicholas C. Petris, D­Reagan, whose salary as Oakland, compared Reagan with governor was $44,100. 
welfare recipients who takeReagan disclosed Tuesday­

after first insisting he couldn't advantage of legal loopholes toremember-that he paid no state obtain higher relief checks. 
income tax for last year because 
)f "business reverses" on "in­
vestments." 
"The governor has been very vocal in his opposition to that.
The millionaire governor's tax Now he's using the law in thestatus brought loud demands that same way," said Petris. "It'sthe state's tax structure be 

changed so that wealthy people exactly the same thing, exceptpay at least some income tax. 
this applies to people at the top of U.S. Sen. Alan Cranston said the income level and welfare 

"loopholes" should be closed and applies to those at the bottom." 

500 end sit-in at Kent State ROTC 
be arrested." -\bout 80 studentsKENT, Ohio-A Kent State remaiced at the building,University building housing the blocking the entrances until theyROTC was reopened yesterday began bickering among them­when a hard core of student selves around noon.

demonstrators began bickering 
among themselves and wandered 
r------------1 

away, ending a 22 hour sit in. 1 Observer Staff I Four students remained in the main entrance of Rockwell Hall, I a combination office and I classroom building but there 
I 

were no incidents. 
I Please pick up yourAbout 500 demonstrators, led 1 party tickets from yourby KSU Yippie leader Jerry 1 department heads beforePersky, began the sit in Tuesday I Friday. The tickets shoudafternoon following four days of I be available later thiscommemoration for the folir I' afternoon. You need aKent State students shot to death 1 ticket to get into the party.

by National Guard troops here 1 The departments heads
May 4, 1970. 
1 will be able to tell you theMany of the demonstrators I time and location of thespent Tuesday night bundled up I party.

in blankets to ward off the 40 degree temperature. I 
A majority of the demon­
I 

strators left after leaders asked 
I

them if they wanted to ''stay and 

'------------J 



~~~ 
2 
THE OBSERVER. 
~~----------------------------------~~~~~~~~-------------------­
WASHINGTON: An antiwar demonstrator and a policeman engage in a shoving match at Dupont Circle during the demonstration Monday in which the war protesters tried to shut down the government by tying up rush hour traffic. (UPI Telephoto) 
Goode, EARTH editor,to speak 




Congressmen join protest 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -A diehard throng of up to 1,500 demonstrators led by antiwar congressmen swarmed up to the locked main entrance of the House of Representatives Wednesday demanding an im­mediate U.S. pullout from In­dochina. Police made mass arrests. 
While protesters chanted ob­scenities, sang, laughed and smoked marijuana on the Capitol steps, a youth stripped naked. Rep. Ronald V. Deulums, D. Calif., scuffled with a policeman and a small band of "human flies" peered into Speaker Carl Albert's second floor office from a narrow ledge. 
Police arrested the demon­strators one by one on charges of unlawful assembly on the Capitol ~rounds, and hauled them away m dozens of vehicles ranging from patrol wagons to rented panel trucks. 
The arrests at the last scheduled event of a 17 day "spring offensive" of antiwar 
Letter invites Tracey to Zahm 
Extending best wishes and congratulations to Ann Marie Tracey for her recent victory in the Student Life Council election, the residents of Zahm Hall have invited Miss Tracey to spend "a few days" living in the hall and become acquainted with the hall community, in an open letter dated May 3, 1971. The letter follows: 
Ann Marie Tracey 
The members of the Zahm Hall community would like to extend their congratulations to you on your election tothe SLC last weekend. The change to coeducation involves many growing paics for our two in­stitutions, especially from the administrative viewpoint. Your election to the SLC on Friday is in the spirit of uniting the two schools in as short a time as possible. We are confident in your abilities to represent the interests of all students while serving on the board. However, the con­troversy stirred by your can­didacy may have prevented you from campaigning as much as you desired. Zahm Hall would like at this time to extend an 
The Meadowbrook Neighborhood Corporation is again seeking volunteers from the ND-SMC com­munity to aid in the con­struction of its Indian day­care and cultural center on Saturday, May 8. 
Due to the closeness of final examinations, we'll only be working two or three hours. Interested students need only show up at the bus circle at 9:30 
a.m. where transportation 
will  be  provided  to  the  
construction site.  
We  would  also  like  to  

take this opportunity to thank all those students who have aided us the past few Saturdays. Your help has been gr~atly ap­preciated by the people of the community. 
If any interested party has any further questions, they can call Bill Brophy at 1504. 
protests in the capital coincided with supporting demonstrations in other major cities across the country, including New York, Boston, Chicago, San Francisco and Kent State where four students were killed in a protest a year ago. 
At the University of Maryland 10 miles away from the Capitol in suburban College Park, state police moved in under orders of Gov. Marvin Mandel to clear nearly 1,000 demonstrators blocking busy U.S. Route 1 ad­jacent to the campus. Mandel also put 1,200 National Guard­smen on standby alert. 
Tear gas was finally used at the Maryland campus, and police fired about 20 canisters to disperse an unruly crowd of nearly 5,000 college and high school students at the University of Wisconsin in Madison. 
At the Capitol, Senate doorkeepers ejected a dozen demonstrators from the visitors' gallery after a few of them silently donned bandanna masks 

invitation to you to come and and give serious consideration to our 
live in our community for a few offer, and again, our best wishes 
days. The purpose would be to for a successful year on the SLC. 
spend some time discussing the 
problems encountered in the 

living experience of Notre Dame. Bill Grimmer 
Hopefully, the exchange of ideas Zahm Hall President 
would benefit all of us as we seek 
to expand our awareness of the 

problems confronting both Saint Jim Sebastian 
Mary's and Notre Dame. Please Zahm Hall Vice-President 
New York antiwar action . disrupted but peaceful 
NEW YORK (UPI) 
-One rally was moved to save newly seeded grass, another ended prematurely with a bandshell takeover and a suburban savings and loan association found itself the target of a "bank run." 
In all, thousands of New Yorkers, most of them young, marked the anniversary Wed­nesday of the shootings of Kent State and Jackson State Universities with antiwar protests of a variety of sorts. Most were peaceful. 
The largest began late in the afternoon, when some 5,000 persons assembled on a one block stretch of 4oth Street in midtown Manhattan that was banned to traffic. The rally originally was scheduled to be held in nearby Bryant Park, scene of a number of antiwar rallies in recent years, but city officials moved it to the street at the last minute to save 

SU plans 'Festival of Lzfe' at SMC 
The Student Union Social Commission has announced plans for a "Festival of Life" to be held tomorrow and Saturday on the West Campus <SMC). 
The activities will begin at 4:30 Friday, outside Madel eva Hall with "music till dark." Mter dark, four hours of movies will be shown. 
At noon Saturday, there will be music by several different groups. An art and photo gallery is to be set up near LeMans Hall and a water balloon fight is planned for the Saint Mary's tennis courts. 
The purpose of the festival is to provide students will free, out-the newly seeded park grass. 
Earlier, about 1,500 persons, most of them high school students, grouped for a rally at the Central Park bandshell. But that gathering ended prematurely when a group of some two dozen black high school 

students mounted the stage wrestled briefly with rally 
organizers for their bullhorns and began shouting black power slogans. 
Although a few fistfights erupted, there were no known injuries or arrests. In suburban 
Cedarh~rst on Long Island, 
meanwh!le, members of three peace groups staged what they called a "bank run" on a savings 
and loan association by cashing .in their U.S. savings bonds. 
Association officials said at least $5,000 of the bonds had been turned in. 

door social events so that they can enjoy themselves while getting away from dating situations. 
The security department has asked that there be no drinking during any of the event. The Social Commission urged that the students comply with this request so that the program could be continued in the future. 
Any student musician in­terested in participating in the concerts should contact the Student Union Social Com­mission, to make arrangements. In the event of bad weather the "Festival of Life" will be held indoors. 
and raised clenched fists while senators below them debated police tactics in handling street confrontations. 

But outside, on'the House side of the Capitol, hundreds of helmeted policemen began arrests a scant half hour after the demonstrators swarmed onto the Capitol grounds and up the east front steps of the House, led by Dellums and Rep. Bella Abzug, D.-N.Y. 
Police began dragging the protesters down the steps even as Mrs. Abzug, one of four antiwar legislators to address the cheering crowd, was saying that it was a "very wonderful moment to see the police and the people demonstrating here together." A few moments later, she was calling the arrests "an outrage." 
Speaker Albert emerged from the building an hour after the arrests began and shook hands with some of the demonstrators on the sidewalk. He told newsmen he had authorized the arrests. 
"Trying to tame the Republic" or "How to get through the year without hating Yourself" will be the topic of a lecture tonight night by James A. Goode. The talk will be held in the library auditorium at 8:00. 
Goode is currently editor and co-publisher of the magazine Earth, a publication orientated towards the "alternate culture." Before founding Earth in July of 1970. Goode served as an editor 


Senior art exhibit 
Contemporary art by Notre Dame seniors is now on exhibit at the Art Gallery and will continue through May 23. 
Pop-art dominates the exhibition in the form of pain­tings, sketches, and photography. Bathtubs and musical tubas are used for pop-sculpture, and a 
dearkened  room  contains  neon  
and  theater-marquee  light  
compositions.  


Craftsmen in Optics® 
SOUTH BENO-THE SHERLAND BUILDING, 132 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET 


JlouseofVisioJi ')
Th" House of Vision, Inc. 


Dfl'NNTQWN TOt"IN & COUNTRY !iOUTH BEND SHOPPirdG CEr~TER
• 
for Playboy magazine. 
Goode was born and raised in Indianapolis and received his 
B.A. degree from Wabash College, where he edited the campus newspaper. 
ND·SMC Theatre 
presents 
The Musical 
Comedy Smash 
Book, Music and Lynes by LIONEL BART 



OLIVE 
:\lay I, 6, 7, 8at8:30 pm. May 2 at 2::w pm. O'Laughlin :\nditorium. $2.00 Tickets . Information: 284-4176. 



-----------~---~~ ~­
• Thursday, May 6, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 
Sen. stopped; punches cop 
THE TRIP 
inherceded on his behalf and they right fist and hit Van Fossen inWASHINGTON UPI-8en. Lee let the senator go. the left upper chest. The officerMetcalf, D. Mont., a robust 60 
Starring: Friday, May 7
Metcalf shouted that he was a took the punch easily and did not years old, punched a policeman United States senator and swing back. But. two otherin the chest Wednesday when he 
Peter Fonda Eng. Audit.
couldn't be prevented from going policemen grabbed Metcalf'sstopped him from crossing a anywhere on the Capitol grounds arms and started leading himpolice line during antiwar 
Susan Strasberg 7:30 9:30 11:30
when Van Fossen, wearing a riot toward buses where demon­demonstrations at the Capitol. 
helmet and holding a nightstick strators were being arrested.
Two other city police officers with both hands, told Metcalf he As they walked, however 

$1.00
grabbed Metcalf after he threw could not cross the line of Capitol Police Chief Jame~his straight right to the chest of policemen. Powell became aware of theofficer M. J. Van Fossen, but the Metcalf then jabbed out his commotion and hustled overchief of the Capitol police 
recognized Metcalf, and ordered 
him to be released. Metcalf, still 



SENIORS
enraged and face flushed

Weekend thefts told 
grabbed a UPI reporter by th~ 
arm to get his ear. 

Vandalism and theft, including weekend. On Friday, thieves "My name is Lee Metcalf. I've that of a blue 1962 Chevrolet forcibly entered a car parked in been stopped." He then quicklysedan from a student parking lot the C-3 lot, and took a small left without commenting on his 
RED BARN PARTY 
Saturday night, marred the An plastic utility back containing little fracas with Van Fossen. Tostal weekend, Security sun glasses and warranty papers Police tried to downgrade the Director Arthur Pears said for the car. Four wheel covers incident, and a higher rankingTuesday. valued at $120 were removed officer admonished Van Fossen 

HAS BEEN MOVED 
from a 1970 Camaro parked in the and the other officers not toIn addition to the four-door D-1 lot. discuss it with the press.
sedan, a Honda 160 Scrambler Three bicycles also were "It's an unfortunate incidentowned by William Seiss of 257 

TO SENIOR BAR
reported stolen over the that we're not going to discuss " Dillon, was stolen Saturday. A 
weekend, along with an ~d....._In_s..:.p_e_ct_o_r_Th_o~m~a s ..'~s... """""•.._"'".._"""•.._""".r.-.-o:_"""..-..~_"'"...:-_.-. _
_s_a.... ______R::.::·· ~E--st.e __..__~1
University-owned vehicle 
American flag from of the
one

sustained minor damage when it 
security guard houses and a 
was struck by a car driven by a 
light bro·wn, wooden desk from
visitor from Davenport, Iowa. 
room 184 of the Commerce
Autos also were involved in two 
Building.
thefts which occured over the 

New hall key policy outlined 
A five-point plan to "bolster the security" in the halls through a new room key distribution policy was revealed yesterday by Ombudsman Paul Dziedzic. He added that the Office of Student Residences, along with his office, urges hall rectors and presidents to comply with the following guidelines: 
Only one mailbox and one key should be made for each student resident of a dormitory. 
A five dollar deposit should be required when a student picks up his key in the fall. 
A record of the deposit will be kept and the five collars will be refunded at the year's end. 
Should a key be lost, the deposit will pay for a new lock on a door 
Glee Club concert to support tour 
The Notre Dame Glee Club, in the final stages of its fund-raising drive, will present a European Tour Benefit Concert Sunday, May 9, at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. Student tickets are priced at $1, adults $2. 
The benefit concert will culminate a ten-year effort to make a tour of Europe. The tour will last three weeks with wtops scheduled in Amsterdam, Brussels, Munich, Vienna, Inn­sbruck, Venice, Rome, Milan, Zurich, and Paris. 
Several formal and informal 
concerts have been scheduled in 
many of the cities. In addition, 
the club will appear on Italian 
national television, tape a half­
hour show on Belgium national 
T.V., and is scheduled to sing in 
the world-famous Vienna Music 
Festival. 

The European tour will climax 
a year of extensive travel for the 
Glee Club. They have performed 
in various cities from Boston to 
Los Angeles. 

The club returned last month 
from the largest tour in its 
history, a western swing through 
Denver, Salt Lake City, Reno, 
San Francisco, Los Angeles, Las 
Vegas, Phoenix, and Tucson. 
'Further information con­
cerning tickets for the benefit can 
be obtained by phoning Jim 
Roberts at 283-1344. Tickets will 
also be available at the door 
Sunday evening. 

or mailbox. New keys should be issued to anyone else using the lock. The person who lost the key will be required to pay another five dollar deposit for the new key. 
Accumulated deposits may be placed in the hall treasury or in time passport certificates at the discretion of the hall. 
If these guidelines are in­stituted, Dziedzic said, "mail security should be improved for next semester" because the 
University will replace all hall
mailboxes this summer. He ,.___,.,;;;;;..,_________________________________J requested any student or 




hall 1---------------------------------------­

with a system that is "more practical and efficient" to notify the Office of Student Residences early in the next semester. 
~---------------------


Eounder~, 

"We want to serve you better": 

ALL YOU 
CAN EAT 
Mon.-Thur. 5 pm-10 pm 
All the chicken or batter fried cod, served with ranch toast, 
french fries, and cole slaw. 
$1.45 chicken, $1.15 Fish 

Fri. -Sat. 


orner of Edison and Ironwood. 

Who is the first girl in your life? Mom 
Don't forget Mother's Day this Sunday. 

52577 U. S. 31 NO. 
272-2966 
L---­
I 

. ....·. I 
· · · · 
I I






six shooters I 
I I 

~ I 
...... 
I

From one beer lover to another. I 
tHE STROH BREWU'r' COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226 
I 
1 
I 

Page 4 THE OBSERVER 

THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief 
T.C. Treanor, Executive Editor Bruce Rieck, Business Manager FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Give US Back the Rock 
Some day, when all the leaves have fallen from the Indiana trees and they stand shivering naked against the harsh Indiana winds, some Notre Dame Freshman, battered by the combined forces of man and nature, baffled by the Freshman Year's ever-constant demand for academic excellence, cut to the quick in his quest for a meaningful relationship with one of the coy maidens at St. Mary's, or set back by any of the preceeding will come to LaFortune Student Center in search of the man who led the ta-dah Fighting Irish to undefeated season after undefeated season and got a ta-dah gym named after himself. And he'll find nothing. Somebody stole LaFortune's eight-by-ten photographs of the Rock. 
Oh, he may find a few things. He may find Tom Dooley, but that's not the same. After all, how many undefeated seasons can you have in Southeast Asia? Or he may find a brand new photograph of Father Burtchaell. That may inspire him to buy a new set of suspenders, but precious little else. There's a photo of Father Hesburgh in there, which may move him to see the world, but as much of an institution as Fr. H. is, he still ain't the Rock. 
The Rock was our one link with the past, and, by virtue of his per­
manence, our one link with the future. Long after Dave Krashna, John 
Barkett, and, lo, even Don Mooney fade into obscurity, the Rock will be 
here. But now his pictures are gone. Hell, we still have pictures of Pat 
Dowd at the Observer office! 
The Observer, then, recommends that the Rock's pictures be returned for the following reasons: 
1.) If they aren't then everyone will forget what he looked like. Fresh­
men might take his nickname literally, and really believe him to be a 
mineral composite. With only that bust in the Rockne Building to go on, 
that conclusion would be entirely justified. 
2.) If they aren't, people will stop believing that the Rock really 
coached here. They will combine their knowledge of his reputation with 
the reputation of a ND sports department slick enough to convince 
people that a certain well-known iquarterback of a couple years previous 
had an IQ in double figures, and logically conclude that the Rock never 
stepped foot on this campus, much less coached here. 
3.) Finally, if they aren't, that Freshman of the future, looking for 
solace, comfort, and inspiration, would be forced to look at Burtchaell, 
Hesburgh, and Dooley, and God knows what would happen after staring 
at that troika. 
Give us our Rock back! And on that supplicatory knute, we end this 
plea. 

Fr. Burtchaell IS• Called 
For those of you who missed it WSND last night featuredl the profound depths and at least half the subtle wit of University Provost (that's Prah-vist) James Tungstead Burtchaell. During the course of his in­tellectual discussion with L. Franklin Devine and others Fr. Burtchaell, (or, "his holiness-to-be" as he's known to his friends), was heard to comment that he would raze the fieldhouse if it had the Observer staff in it. 
We feel that it should take more than a Fr. Burtchaell Dictum to demolish the fieldhouse. Accordingly, we propose a contest. A member of our staff is the six-and-under arm wrestling champion of Roosevelt, Arizona. He will meet Fr. Burtchaell in an affair of honor in front of the fieldhouse at twelve midnight, Friday, May 7th, 1971. The loser of the arm wrestling match will be forced to enter the fieldhouse while the winner gets to demolish it about his ears. 
Fr. Burtchaell, we're calling you. out! 
-----------~-------­
Thursday, May 6, 1971 

Fr. Raymond Runde===== 
Isolation on the Prairi~ 
Some months ago Cardinal Suenens told a Parisian interviewer that 
the Church should settle the question of celibacy and get beyond to the 
major problems of Church reform. The Cardinal said that the idea of 
celibacy is a minor concern in comparison to the concept of what the 
priesthood itself should be. Frequently enough, the same situation 
occurs over and over again where the accidental is allowed to 
supercede the essential. "A genius for the periphery" is the curse of 
the dilettante, and apathy is the disease of the self satisfied. In both 
cases the prospect of being on the cutting edge of substantial reform is 
blunted by misdirected emphasis, or by no activity at all. 
I think there is an analogous situation in our academic community of 
Notre Dame University and St. Mary's College. In the three years that 
I have been teaching here the major educational reform that has taken 
place is coeducation. Such a change is hardly a sign of being in the 
vanguard of creative experiences, especially since coeducation really 
is an accidental aspect to the total concept of education in itself. While 
I believe that a coeducational environment is much healthier for 
students, I don't think anyone holds it to be essential before learning 
can take place. Also since the announcement of the merger and thus 
the impending coeducational situation, the academic community here 
seems to have lapsed into a state of lethargy that reeks of apathy. 
While the dilettante is understandable as one who is generally young and inexperienced, the smugness of the self satisfied is much more difficult to digest. Why we feel that all is well in our academic situation is really incomprehensible. One doesn't have to ponder for long what exists here and what is possible in higher education, to realize that soon we could be inhaling the dust of the reformers. Sometimes I wonder if the "isolation of the prairie" hasn't brought about a great degree of stagnation, for anyone who would state that there is a dynamic academic milieu at ND-SMC hardly has his finger on the pulse. 
Before essential change in the educational process can take place tho.ugh, there has to exist a structure that is capable of bearing the weight of such reform. The present centralized model based on American corporations has left us with much to be desired. This system has taken us to our present place in time but leaves little doubt that it is inadequate for the future. Such an organization has taken away decision making and a sense of responsibility from those who need it most, deans of schools and heads of departments, and it con~rols programs, appointments, and appropriations generally from an Ivory tower. 
Thus it seems evident that we need a decentralization of the academic bureaucracy, and more freedom and responsibility given to those administrators who are closer to the academic situation. Schools withi~ the university should be given more real license to develop creative programs and have the autonomy to move freely in their spheres by governing their own fiscal affairs. Power is in the hands of the person who controls the money. So no change in the present structure can take place until the schools in the university are given the responsibility of controlling, at least partially, their own finances. This certainly would have to be one of the first steps in any serious reform. 
For a positive direction, I believe that Notre Dame should resurrect the experimental college concept and give it sufficient fiscal and academic autonomy to be able to succeed. The experimental college concept should not become stereotyped and formalized but remain open and free with enough structure to keep it from developing into a mentality of license to do anything or to do nothing. The University should allow variations of the program to arise naturally in time, and encourage creativity from faculty and students alike. But we do have serious problems in the development of such a change, for we cannot expect an academic community to find the seeds of such a sweeping change within itself. They can make some minor changes in areas but no overall structural reformation is possible without outside help. Talented persons from without have to be brought into the University, and they have to be given the power to reform even against the long guarded concerns of those high in the organization. 
It seems quite apparent though that the present structure of Notre Dame wasn't prepared for the experimental college and thus it remains only a dream. 
So I suggest that Notre Dame hire a team whose task would be to organize the transformation of the University, in order to allow the greatest amount of academic excellence to ensue. What is needed are some young Dr. George Shusters. Such men will need creative vision and an enthusiastic vitality for the job certainly won't be easy. The reformers will need total backing from the powere that be, and they will have to remain insensitive to the verbal blasts which will definitely come from some in the academic community itself. 
For Notre Dame to continue on its present ocurse seems an un­fortuante circumstance. For St. Mary's College to enter at this junc­ture into the University's structure without substantial change taking place seems even more unfortunate. Merger under these conditions just increases the number of students who will getting a rather mediocre education. What is sad is to be unable to discern any movement toward real reform. Most appear satisfied. While it seems very true that St. ~ary's College had no future alone, it causes no joy to bury the dead without much hope that a reincarnation will bring a higher form of life. 
To ape the minor reforms of other universities only after they have proven somewhat successful is not the way develop an academic yi!~lity. Still to~ay, private institutions have a great opportunity to 1mtiate change smce they are free to develop different responses to the dynamics of man. To do this involves risk, a high degree of un­certainty at times, and the possibility of failure. Only to taking such chances though will Notre Dame inch forward to the cutting edge of leadership in higher education. 


r------------------------,
night editor: Joe cassini . ' 1
I layout: brian (q.) hickey night controllers: 10hn brady, 
I jimmy mcgrath I I headlines: john I1 headline doer: bill clemency moderator: george tirebiter 1 
1----------------------~--J 
~---------·---~----­
Thursday, May 6, 1971 
THE OBSERVER. 

rev. robert griffin 

a gleam of light 
Springtime, '71, has been the season of secular Lents. In an age when the Church has mitigated the discipline of fasts that fed that fishmonger's daughter, and almsgiving has become principally a matter of deductions between a man a'nd his tax­collector, students have vowed hunger as a protest to napalm and renounced their discophilia as a thrifty means of raising money for the purchase of balms in Gilead for a suffering Asian village. They mourn the death of Messiah fallen in Memphis and the slaughter of the innocents on the greens of Kent State. They follow a Via Dolorosa that leads them not to Calvary or an empty tomb, but to en­campments at the seats of power. On the lawns of Washington, they protest the alliance of Herod with Pilate; on the steps of the Pentagon, they turn their anger against Annas and Caiphas, plotting together as conspirators in the palace of the high priest. 
In the early hours of a recent Saturday, reports came in from the night marauders of a group of munchkins huddled under blankets on the steps of the Administration building; it was snowing a bit, and the air was icy with the night winds of March; but still the munchkins waited for the coming of Sunday evening, when their hunger strike would end. Only old gluttons know how touching this form of war-protest really is; but in the end, I fear, it did not affect anything. Only if, like Gandhi, they were prepared to fast until death, it seems to me, could their self-punitive suffering make the slightest dent in the moral composure of the military-industrial complex. 
The difficulty with our secular Lents is that they involve a postponement of Easter. The passiontide of the world began with its birth. Vietnam-for all of its wounding of the contemporary Christian con­science-is only a single gasp of pain in the agony of the generations that have been nailed to a cross of fire in all the wars of history. Every date on the calendar of time is encircled with the blood of victims who bear the marks of a crown of thorns. 
But the energies of living men must not be spent in counting the bodies of the unjustly dead. 
At Easter this year, at the Mass for the moppets in Urchinsville, each child was given a plant to take home and care for: it was the gift of a green and living thing in celebration of the Feast of Life. 
Vietnam is all of the obscene crimes its critics have called it: organized murder, genocide, capitalistic exploitation, atrocity of the first dimension. I reverence on my knees all the efforts of the gentle people who commit themselves to ending the horror. But as a Christian priest, I beg that their peace movements not be those of penitents who starve themselves in the darkness, but as children who care for green and living things to celebrate the Feast of Life. 
War is the ultimate denial of the sanctity of human life. Ideally as a way of affirming the 
poems 
vietnam (my delta) 

in my vietnam there are no mortars no rockets or grenades no bombs or bullets. only lush majestic hills rushing tumbling to the sea and crystal emerald water with old stone mansions rising up from the valleys 
in my viet nam 
there are cities not 
unlike Memphis or 
those in the mississippi 
delta region. my 
many flat farms are 
similar to those of 
illinois or iowa 
my thousands of miles of dirt roads of red clay like those in georgia. my densely wooded areas are reflective of the peaked places of pennsylvania my many jagged cliffs are here colorado and there new hampshire 
my villages are so closely packed 
together 
that one recalls the 
livittowns in suburbia. 
my rivers are as winding as the rivers of southern ohio. my people are short of stance but large of heart four ours is a beautiful and someday a free, free land. kevin q. quinn holiness of the life-force, infants should be fathered and conceived, as a victory declared in the face of death. 
If a hundred thousand students would observe May 5th as a day spent in the symbolic act of planting trees in the plundered forest of America, then the peace movement could be seen as reflec­tive of the creative mood of the children of beauty. If a thousand students at Notre Dame could plant a garden on the quads-a place where lovers could walk, and dreamers have visions-it could endure forever as a sacrament of peace: the external sign of the internal grace of a generation's decision to work, in the midst of war, as the sons and daughters of the Father of Life. 
A peace garden on the quads ...in this Ave atqu.e Vale of my scribblings in the Observer this year, this frivolous nothing represents my hope for the direction in which the energies of the peace-makers might go: not to Washington; not to rallies in Stepan Center; not to futile, somewhat doubtful, acts of civil disobedience ... but to the work of caring for green, living things that affirm that Easter is as eternally present in human affairs as the outrages against innocence that seem, like the life of God Himself, to occupy an eternal now. 
A final thought: the question is onen asked of Notre Dame: is it Catholic? Is it Christian? by which is meant: do the students go to Mass? The question itself represents a topsy-turvy view of hierarchical function. Notre Dame can be Christian only if it has a true moral vision of what a Christian university should be: a witness to itself and to the world community of the implications of truth as revealed in the Incarnation of the Son of Man. 
If being Christian adds a dimension of insight to the function of being a university, it is to be hoped that our leaders can define the goals of Notre Dame facing a post-ghetto world where science, operating without ethics, is manipulating more and more the forces of life; for a heaven created on earth by science could end by being more terrifying then the extra-terrestrial hell as conceived by theologians. 
In the meantime, to the least of all the children in the Kingdom, a gleam of light is given ... maybe, if the gleams given to all of us are collected, they will coalesce into a vision of what Notre Dame should be. 
Wounds are not healed by protest; service to suffering is not rendered by rhetoric. Maybe peace can begin only when a generation of students called to bayonets declares an armistice to plant roses in an earth that is in need of gardens. 
Peace! If you are in the neighborhood of St. Malachy's, W. 49th Street, two blocks north of Times Square, during July and August, drop in for Sermonette. And remember: Darby and I never said we didn't love you. 


man's greatest fault 
On completion of my daily chore, Reading the events of the day before, I laid the newsprint on the shelf to rest To ponder the world beyond my nest. 
I thought of mankind's greatest fault, Of his inability of hate to halt Before it grew and grew so great That destruction of the world would be his fate. 
I wondered why men were so full of hate, 
Like impulsive fisherman, hungry fish and bate. I wondered why men could not live in peaceAnd learn how their happiness this would increase. 
Then I thought of mighty Niagra, Roaring as it rushed toward the sea. The sea itself · Breaking and brushing against the shore. The shore, windswept, Slanting upward as far as the eye could see. 
I thought of the majestic Rockies Pointing heavenward ­And of the Grand Canyon floor ­Of the flatland plains, the crystal lakes, the sun-dried deserts ­The tempests, the quakes ­And all that lies in nature's creative wake. 
I thought of how I had felt upon beholding these-nature's monuments! So small, so lost, so insignificant, So much in need of anothzr humane's sentiments\ Yet I did not feel the need for power, money or fame, Or any of those trivial things that drive men so insane. 
Then I thought, if everyman could so feel. The world surely would be healed. Then what need of war, of prejudice, of hate; Of impulsive fisherman, hungry fish and bate! 
joe miano 


graduate now serving in vietnam
Dear Brian: 

:sorry that I haven't written in such a long while especially in light of your faithful and very in­teresting correspondence. 
I'm just getting out of the hospital after having been hosed by the "enemy" (whoever and whatever they are). It's really ironic that they are giving me a Purple Heart Medal for shedding blood for my country when in reality I wouldn't even be proud to shed a mouthful of saliva for the the U.S. 
I got hit over a place called An Hea (the press is calling it the battle of Due Due) which is a mere 17 miles west of Danang. Nixon's Vietnamization program rhymes with castration. As we pull out more and more of the "enemy" is just taking over the places that we have been fighting over for 6 
• years. 

I was very lucky in my accident. Got all the troops out alive but I caught shrapnel in the neck, chest, and arm. The real clincher is that an AK-47 round went through my survival vest and radio and stopped at the butt of my .38 pistol which was worn over my heart. I'm either an immortal or the luckestt bastard alive. Probably the latter is more correct. What saved me was the "Superman" T­shirt that I wear under my flight suit. 
I have 16 days and a wake-up until my unit with­draws to Okinawa for six months. I hope I get a job like passing out volleyballs so I can devote all of my energies in dealing with the Black Market and organizing a first class whore house. 
I will really be estatic about getting out of here. They blew up part of my orphanage last week and so there is really nothing constructive left for me to do. 
Spring has always been a good time at N.D. hope you're enjoying it. ' 
I almost forgot. Spent my R and R in Sydney Australia. Definitely the best place I've eve; visited. Thinking about going there again for a couple months after I'm paroled or exiled from the military. • 
Peace and friendship. 
~--­
,.....-----------------­
Page 6 THE OBSERVER Thursday, May 6, 1971 
Colombo claims police harassment 
NEW YORK (UPI)-Since 1963 when Joseph Colombo Sr. was accused by federal authorities of heading a Brooklyn crime family, he has lived with what he terms "the nightmare" of being referred to as a Mafioso. 
Colombo said in an interview that the federal government's organized strike force has been "harassing" his family. Colombo himself has been indicted for income tax evasion, conspiracy in a jewel robbery and handed a jail sentence for perjury, which he is appealing. 
Law enforcement officials scoff at this Colombo martyr image and maintain he has engaged in a publicity campaign to dupe the public by establishing a "veneer" of respectability. 
Colombo, 47, not only denies the 
Rally, march mark ND moratorium 
The office closed at 4:30, and
(continued from page 1) 
many students left to talk to "We believe that cooperation people on the streets and with the draft is obeying a law distribute literature, but the that orders us to commit murders secretaries at first refused to ~hat are unjust, immoral, and leave through the protester-lined mhuman. The war in Vietnam is hallway. After the students 
destroying America's integrity agreed not to try to converse with and the Indochinese people. any of the ladies, however, they 
"People, the task is hard, for left, some hostile and some we must stop, ask ourselves what joking. As they left, the students we are doing with our lives and sang the "Star-Spangled Ban-money, and attempt to give peace ner." The marchers left the a chance." building soon afterward. 
There will be a meeting of the 
N.D. Peace Coalition action committee at 8:00p.m. tonight at
Met Club 
the Teahouse of the Fieldhouse. 
Baggage Truck .------~;,..~----~ Story published by the Notre IREFRIGERATORS I D~~~rJ:Js~mployees should be 
Final Sales 
I Iprosecuted for hiring anyone
I I Tomorrow will be the last 11 day Compact Cool units will be 
Thursday May 6 7-8 p.m. picked up. Please have LaFortune I someone around 12-4 to let us 
LaFortune Rathskellar 1 in. Thanks.
$5 deposit required 1 Dick 6723 J 

Mail in or come by Observer office For information call 7471 
TRAVEL 

Spend the summer in Europe. Charter jets to London, Amsterdam and Paris. MOre than 40 dates available. IN­TERNATIONAL STUDENTS ACADEMIQUE SOCIETY. Also eligible for many other benefits (railroad passes, hotel discounts, etc) For information call Frank 233-8142 
Want to take a trip to EUROPE thi!. summer? Fly in a jet chartered by the IJATINAL UNION OF STUDENT!> 1\ND SAVE! Approx. 60 dates JVailable for round trips betw. London 
•nd N.Y. this summer for $245. From London connect to any of 50 Europear :ities at discount fares. For example: 
.ondon, Paris: $12.60, London Am~ sterdam: $12.00, Paris Zurich $15.00 Zurich-Rome $20.00 Many othe1 benefits (travel passes, hotel discounts, etc.) Also available 
•llay flights, one-way flights \$125). Return on any date, ,eachers, students, and immediate family eligible, group rates. For info and application call Tom 282­2250, 5-10 P.M. Man .-Fri. 
SERVICES 

Crypt~ New Hours 12:30 ~ 4:00 Now on stock Hendrix ~ Cry of Love -$3.60 Cat Stevens-Tea for Tillerman -$3.10 Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection­$3.10 Mountain Nantucket Sleighrid_e__ 
Class of '72. Anyone interested in applying for management of Alumni Club (Senior Bar>. please contace Tom 8728 or Jim 6753, before Sat. 
Mail Contributions for the medical 
aid center of Quang Naito Box 626, 
Notre  Dame  Indiana.  The  
Refugees  need  help.  Please  con­ 
tribute  to  the  Refugee  Aid  
Program.  

ATTENTION PITT CLUB Meeting~ Mon. May 10, 7:00. 2nd floor LaFortune. Elections and luggage truck. Any member wishing to run for office, contact Charlie 3635 or Bill 
1730. 

All organizations must be charted through the University for the coming academic year. Register in the Services Commission: 4th Floor La Fortune, Afternoons: Call 7757 
Met Club Baggage Truck to New York City Area. Dropoffs in Westchester and Long Island on May 19. For info: 462 Zahm 6-7 pm or 8417 anytime. 
Tomorrow will be the last day Com­pact Cool units will be picked up. Please have someone around from 12­4 to let us in. Thanks. Dick 6723. 
------------­HELP WANTED 
Jewly formed waterbed company wants campus representatives for hottest selling item in states. Good commissions for a few hours Work per week that can be fitted easily 
to your schedule. Write: L ightrays Designs, Inc. 
1 Love sleep water beds division J727 mlnut St. Philadelphia, Pa. 19104 Pr ..::all: (215) 349~9330. 
For Sale Maxi White Sheepskin Coat -Small. Ca II 272~4709 
High quality Kanekelon wigs for sale. Clearing stock. 1 for $20, 2 for $30. Call 234-5605 after 6 p.m. Weekdays. 
For Sale -Loft-Second floor. 
Extras. Shown by appointment. 
6963 
Most Books for: Smelser-American Revolution, Menard­American Constitutional. Norling-Europe since 1920, Sz­cczesniak-Russia, Colliegiate Seminar; Also many others. Call 
charges against him but also accuses the federal government of fabricating "the myth of the Mafia" to harass Italian Americans and of using unfair tactics against him. 

The most recent indictment charges Colombo with running a multimillion dollar gambling operation. Colombo admits to deriving revenue from gambling operations but maintains they are outside the United States where such activities are legal. 
"Now my activities are gambling in London and all these big enterprises," Colombo said. "I don't need anybody to protect me there." 
Before the recent charges were filed against him' Colombo had been arrested about a dozen times. primarily for running crap games. consorting with known criminals, disorderly conduct and vagrancy. But he served only a 30 day sentence on a contempt charge for refusing to answer grand jury questions about mob 

infiltration  into  legitimate  
businesses.  
Until  recently,  Colombo  

greeted charges that he was a powerful Mafia chieftain and member of the Cosa Nostra council with complete silence. 
Then last year, federal crime fighters arrested his son, Joseph 
Jr., on charges of conspiring to melt down silver coins into more valuable ingots. That's when Colombo founded and organized the Italian American Civil Rights League, whose members began picketing FBI headquarters in Manhattan. This form of protest failed to shake the conviction of those who call Colombo the boss of a Cosa Nostra family that profited from loan sharking, labor racketeering and gambling in Brooklyn, England and the Bahamas. 
Food for thought 
The dining halls will serve 
Coke, pretzels and potato chips 
every night during exam week. 
The service will run from 10 to 
11 p.m. and will run from 
Tuesday, May 11 to Monday, May 
17. 
The dining halls will also 
sponsor a picnic this Sunday 
during lunch. Mothers are 
welcome. 

Prof. proposes immigration curb 
A card identifying citizens and legal aliens should be required for all American residents, Dr. Julian Samora, professor of sociology suggested in his new book Los Mojados: The Wetback 
unable t~ produce such a card. I This simple step would sub-Istantially reduce the flow of 
hundreds of thousands of I Mexicans who illegally cross the I border each year in the hopes of 1 earning good wages in the United L States, he said. Presently, he 
For Sale Nikon F with meter, flash, tripod, ($250). Call 1081. 
Wooden Bookcase for sale. Easily dissassembled. $6 Call Carl -8883 
Martin Classical Guitar, Model oo. 18C Excellent Condition, Call Tom, 234­1969. 
HOUSING 
For rent -June 1-Sept 1. 3 bedroom h.ome ~excellent condition & location, air conditioned, dish washer, fur­nished, carport $125 a month-call 8100 or 8229 after 8 p.m. 
For rental, Summer.June, July, August. Near N.D. 4 Bedrooms, utilities. Furnished: $150 per month pi us refundable deposit. Call 287-1777. After 5:30. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found Timex Watch 5-1-71 at Stepan Parking Lot. Call 6715 
Lost: Gold Timex watch with black band; also meal card. In or around Stepan last Sat. night. Please call 3460. 
Lost -Chaminade School Ring initials EJC. Call Ed 1735 
RIDES 
Need Transportation? We need drivers for new cars being ship;:>ed to: Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Washington, Carolina's, Atlanta, Pittsburgh, Cleveland, Cincinatti, Memphis, Dallas, Houston, San Antonio, 
Denver, Phoenix, Salt Lake City, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, and vicinities. Take your things home! You pay gas and tolls. Must be 21. Call Brian Furey, 283-3651. 

pointed out, it is illegal to harbor an alien, but employers are specifically exempted from prosecuution. 
The book is written with the assistance of Gilbert Cardenas and Jorge A. Bustamente, the latter a man who actually crossed the border as a wetback to learn first hand the dangers facing an illegal immigrant. One of the gravest problems, Bustamente pointed out, is that the wetback has no legal rights whatever, and is completely at the mercy of his employer, who may refuse to pay him wages, may turn him over to authorities 
AUTOMOTIVE 
1?62 VW Bus, newly rebuilt engine, highway condition, seats remove if camper desired, dune buggy rear­end later on; Call: Calhoun 283­
7274, days. 

1959 TR~3. Excellent condition, new battery, generator, regulator, tires, and more. Price to sell $650. Call 232­4896 or 272-2568. 
For Sale Honda 160 Scrambler, Good condition. Reasonable Price. 
Call 7279 

1966 VW Bus -Factory rebuilt. best installed . Call 234-0225. 
For Sale '67 Honda 305 Scrambler, Excellent Condition. $350 Cilll ?32~ 1860 
PEANUTS PERSONAL 
Maldita Loca: Luck in finals. Be good. Miss U!!! 
Watch out! Highly contagious! Spreading: the myth of SMC's bitches. Chicken Hawk 8533 
I o SMC Champs 

Holy Cross Football Team, 
We love you all. 
The Coaches 

S&C ~ Your insipid attempt at pungency seems the product of a humdrum intellect. You two must, indeed, be "typical". -Bill 3386 
Mary-
Remember An Toastal. 
Teaching Matrons shouldn't be Out so late on weeknights. I lost the "race." Call 283-1179 Mike 
Cyclops, Open your eyes next time. You're full of sh! t. Lance Corey 
RATES 

.....  1doy  2­ ,._  4don  1­ 
0-10  ...  ·"'  1.00  1.15  1...  
11-16  ...  1.00  uo  1.70  2.111  
10-2<1  .70  1.16  1.70  2AO  2.80  
21·25  ...  1~·  2.00  2.90  JAI  
:zl-30  1.00  ...  2~·  lAO  4.10  

31-35  1.20  1.00  2.10  3.11  4.70  
~0 .,.,.  uo ....  2.10 2~0  3.10 3.30  4.21 4.00  6.10 ...  
.....  1.71  uo  3.10  4.71  ....  

at any time, or exploit him in a 
variety of ways. 
These illegal immigrants aid the U.S. economy by providing cheap labor, Samora pointed out. However, the presence of great numbers of Mexicans depresses wages in the entire border area, creating the displacement of citizens and legal aliens. 
The wetbacks are also used to 
break strikes, most recently in 
efforts of farm laborers to 
organize into a union. Since the 
aliens have no legalrights, they 
cannot be organized themselves. 
Mexico has fostered the wet­back migration by not enforcing laws which prohibit the illegal border crossing, Samora added. Apparently, he explained, Mexico believes the money sent back by the wetbacks is good for the economy. Also, the officials believe that the aliens are at least employed in the U.S., where they would remain jobless in Mexico. 
However, Samora contends, most of the money the wetback earns is spent in the United States. Also, the personal misery and degradation caused by the illegal migration is damaging to a great many Mexican families. 
To discourage the wetback flow, Samora suggests an identification card should be carried by all citizens and legal aliens. Employers hiring anyone unable to produce such a card would be severely prosecuted. This would remove the incentive for employers to hire wetbacks, at the same time removing the mojor incentive--jobs--which causes Mexicans to make the dangerous journey across the border. 
Samora also stressed that 
smugglers who traffic in human 
lives should be prosecuted 
severely. 
Rock~taken 
from LaFortune 
Arthur Pears, director of Notre Dame security, has confirmed the report that several pictures had been stolen from LaFortune Student Center. 
The eight photographs, of football teams coached by Knute Rockne, were removed recently. 
Pears said that the main value of the pictures was the en­tertainment they gave to those that visit the Student Center, and he could not understand the value they would have for any in­dividual. Because of this, Pears hopes that the person responsible will return the photos to LaFortune where everyone will be able to enjoy them . 


Thursday, May 6, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
'This is the place to be'-Phelps 
by Jim Donaldson 

Observer Sports Editor 
In his first year as a college basketball coach, Dick "Digger" Phelps inherited a team that had a 10-15 record and didn't have a starter taller than 6'5" Phelps was able to win 26 of 29 games with that delegation, an ac­complishment that earned him the runner-up spot in the United Press International "Coach of the Year" voting. 
Next season, Phelps will take over the reins of a Fighting Irish basketball squad that has just two returning lettermen, neither of whom started during the past year. The task before him is a difficult one, but "Digger" is anxious to get started. At a press conference yesterday morning in the Monogram room of the ACC he seemed as thrilled with Notre Dame as a freshman the first week in September. 
"I'm very excited about being here," Phelps said. "I just can't believe it. I've always wanted to coach at Notre Dame. I think that this is the place to be." 
"There are great people here," Phelps continued. "Notre Dame has a winning tradition, tremendous facilities, a fine academic atmosphere and what I 
ND netmen run win streak to 14 
By E.J. Kinkopf Observer Sports Writer "Tiger" Tom Fallon's racqueteers continued their blistering pace, as they disposed of Purdue on Monday and In­diana on Tuesday. In the process they extended their unbeaten string of 14 straight and ended the win streak of the Hoosiers at ten. The Irish defeated the Boilermakers on the West Lafayette campus by a score of 7­2. Buster Brown, John Allare, Brandon Walsh and Rob Schefter all recorded singles victories. Brown's winning match was the only one that went three sets. The doubles teams of Riley­LeSage, Brown-Allare, and Walsh-Murray swept in the doubles action. The Indiana match was a different story as the Irish squeaked by 5-4. The Hoosiers were out for 
Thin cladS take 4th in Big State Meet 
quartet finished fourth with aThe Notre Dame track team Harris in the 440 Relay. The clocking of 42.8.

placed fourth in the Indiana State Meet at Muncie on Tuesday. 
Rich Vallicelli turned in hisThe Irish, running up a point best outdoor efforts this spring intotal of 581/2, finished behind the 100 year dash and the 220Indiana University, Indiana State yards.

and Purdue. The winners, IU, racked up a total of 82 points to 
But his 9.5 clocking in the 100 win first place honors. and his 21.9 in the 220 earned him Tom McMannon was the Irish only fourth and third place 
star as he set new Notre Dame respectively.and indiana State records in the . . high hurdles. RICk Wohuter, Marty Hill a_nd 
The swift soph recorded times Dan Dunn rounded out the Insh of 13.5 seconds in the qualifying scoring in the track events. heat, and finished up with a 13.7 
Wohlhuter, returning to actionclocking in the finals while after a layoff dur to a leg injury, copping. first place honors. 

finished first in his section of theThe new record broke the mark 880. However his time of 1:57.1

of 13.8 Tom had set only two was only good enough for fourthweeks ago. 
place overall.

In the same event, Joe Utz finished third and Dave Struckler Elio Polselli completed the came in fourth. scoring .as he won a first and a 
Their respective times of 14.0 second in the field events. and 14.2 were also cited by Coach 
Wilson as 'exceptional.' Elio finished first in the discus Tom McMannon also won a 
with a toss of 176' 4". In the shot first in the 440 hurdles. His time put he won a second place ribbon. 
of 54.2 seconds won him the blue His throw of 55' 51/2" was his best ribbon. outdoor effort this year. 
Tom's older brother Mike The tracksters will take a finished second in the long jump vacation from formal com­
and fourth in the triple jump. petition until May 29th when they Mike also teamed with Jack travel to Phylly to compete in the Samar, Rick Vallicelli and Rich Rick Wohlhuter ICAAAA meet. 
Gene Sullivan. 
• Phelps was quick to point out, 
zn the DiNardo mold 
Carolina, Phelps remarked that "to be the best you have to play the best". 
"We'll go step by step and take each game one by one. The kids will have to play the best they can," Phelps continued. 
While discussing his coaching philosophy, Phelps commented that he wasn't a "hold the ball coach". "College basketball is a spectator game and it's got to be exciting," he felt. He said that if other teams play a slow-down type of game then, "we'll go out after them early. We can't afford to play into their hands." 
whether or not he would be able 
to "make it" on the Irish fresh-
m?,~tt~fr~·Ihadmydoubts,"he 
admitted. "You know, I came uphere and I was afraid that they'd all be monsters. And during the early part of the freshman season everyone shot out in front of me. But after a while everything started to fall into place and I started to get the feel of things a little better." Freshman coach Denny Murphy must have thought that things fell into place for Pomarico immediately, because Frank started at of­
fensive guard in every freshman NCAA tenniS• at ND 
, . 

Many of t~e worlds leadmg amateur tenms players and the ~ation's top collegiate teams will 
mvade Notre Dame for. the 8?th annual NCAA ChampiOnships June 14-19. . 
Notre Dame tenms coach Tom Fall~n ~a.s announced that over 250 IndiVIdual players and 42 teams will participate in the six-day tournament. Notre Dame, NCAA co-champions under Fallon in 1959, will be hosting the event for the first time. 
"We'll have an opportunity in see some of the best amateurs in the world," said Fallon, who indicated the tournament mat­ches will be played on Notre Dame's 24 courts. Ticket prices will be announced at a later date. 
Gene Sullivan, Dee's assistant who had sought the head coaching post,spoke briefly at the conference and wished Phelps and the Irish good luck in the future. 
Phelps let it be known that he signed a 4-year contract with Notre Dame and said that "I hope it turns out to be 40". 
Phelps also revealed how he got his nickname. "My father is an undertaker," he said with a smile. 
I guess if the Irish intend to bury their opponents next year, "Digger" is the man that can do it for them. 
thing." 
Frank Pomarico, despite all his early successes, is aware that his position is anything but secure. 
"It depends," he said, "on how much I work out during the summer. With the kind of players that we've got at Notre Dame, it's a day-by-day challenge to keep your position. You've got to try to look good on every play; you just can't afford to get beat. I'm pretty confident right now that I'll have my position in Sep­tember, but I know it's going to be different in the fall. I'll have to 
go ~ut and prove myself all over agam." Thinking ahead to the up­coming season, Pomarico ven­
tured an opinion that may not be born out until the Irish are well into their '71 schedule. 
"We'll have a great defense, but our offense is kind of young and it could take a few games for us to gell. But if we get through our first three or four games without a loss then we'll be hard to stop." 
Last year's team did just that, and a key factor in their early­season spurt was the per­formance of number 56---guard Larry DiNardo. If next year's team is going to enjoy the same success, it's just possible that much of the responsibility will fall on another number 56---guard Frank Pomarico. 
think is the finest alumni association in the country." 
Notre Dame was not the only school that sought Phelps' ser­vices. He mentioned Minnesota, Utah, Rutgers, Penn and Virginia Tech as schools that had felt him 
out  on  coaching  jobs  but  he  
rejected their offers.  
"One offer,  at least,  was  for  

much more money, but you can't buy happiness , " the 29-year old coach said. 
The first order of business for Phelps will be to wrap up the recruiting of next year's fresh­man ballplayers, begun by ex­coach John Dee and his assistant, "get the most out of the material at hand". 
"If I can build confidence among the kids, there's no limit to what we can accomplish," Phelps said. 
Offensively, Phelps figures to use a style that best suits the ability of his players but on defense, he let it be known that he was strictly a man-to-man ad­vocate. 
When the difficulty of the 1971­'72 schedule was pointed out to him, including the fact that NYU had been replaced by a Madison Square Garden date with North 

however, that he wouldn't at­tempt to recruit any high school prospects who had committed themselves either verbally or in writing to Fordham, nor would he encourage any of his Fordham players to transfer to Notre Dame. 
Phelps was also anxious to contact his new "kids". 
"It's important that the kids believe in themselves," Phelps commented. Knowing that most of next year's Fighting Irish will be inexperienced, Phelps ex­pressed the hope that he could 
by Vic Dorr 
Observer Sports Writ.~!" 
The 1971 Fighting Irish football team will be the eighth team that Ara Parseghian has produced since coming to Notre Dame, and this team, like no other, promises to be a blend of experience and youth. No one needs to be reminded that the Irish roster for next seasorr will be loaded with names such as Gatewood, Patulski, Creaney, and Ellis, but there will also be some new 

blood, after losing to the netmen by an identical score at the convo earlier this spring. 
They left the ND campus in March complaining that the Irish had an advantage on the indoor courts. 
So this time the raqueteers stuck it to 'em outdoors. 
Coach Fallon singled out Captain Bernie LeSage as the hero of the match as he won a tie­breaker in humber four singles in the final set for his victory. 
And that tie breaking point proved to be the margin of vic­tory. 
Besides LeSage, Allare, Walsh and Schefter all won their singles matches, and the duo of Brown­Allare recorded the only Irish doubles victory, while clinching the win. 
The raqueteers will travel to Kalamazoo for matches with Western Michigan on Friday and Kalamazoo College on Saturday. 
The netters will also host a doubleheader on Sunday when 
:\li 
they tackle Eastern Michigan and Michigan State. 

names on the list. Names like Brown, Hill, Devine, Casper, and Rudnick. 
One of the most promising of these young players is Frank Pomarico, a 6-2, 240 pound of­fensive guard who very likely will be holding down Larry DiNardo's old position when the Irish open against Northwestern in Sep­tember. 
Pomarico, who like DiNardo, came to Notre Dame from St. Francis Prep in Brooklyn, is something of a "born" offensive lineman. 
"I've been playing on the of­fensive line since I was 10 years old," he said. "And I've always played at guard, too, except in high school where I played a little tackle." 
Apparently he did no injustice to the memory of DiNardo at St. Francis for during his last year there Pomarico was a rather heavily wooed prospect. He was approached by the likes of Boston College, Michigan State and· North Carolina, as well as Notre Dame. But according to Pomarico, there was never any choice. 
"I'd wanted to come to Notre 
Dame ever since roy sophomore 
year in high school. Oh, sure, I 
was recruited by other places, 
but I always knew that I'd come 
here if I got the chance. I guess 
I'd have to say that Larry 
<DiNardo) was one of the big 
reasons, too. We talked about the 
school a lot, and he didn't leave 
much doubt in my mind." 
One doubt that did confront 
Frank Pomarico last fall was game last year, and he even went both ways in the season's finale against Michigan. 
The freshman season ended 
some two weeks before the 
Thanksgiving holidays, and as 
soon as Pomarico returned to 
South Bend after that semester 
break he began a weight-training 
program for the '71 season. 
"I made up my mind right 
away that I wasn't going to end up on the prep team again," he said. "All I really wanted to do was be sure that I made the traveling squad, and I decided to work my butt off until I did." That bit of off-season con­ditioning paid off handsomely. For not only did Pomarico achieve his goal of making the · traveling squad, but he also found himself, at the end of his fresh­man year, as the team's first 
string right guard. 
There was an added bonus, too. 
At halftime of last week's Blue­
Gold game, Pomarico was one of 
the fifteen players--and one of six 
freshmen--to receive Hering 
Awards for superior per­
formances during spring prac­
tice. Pomarico's award came for 
being the Outstanding Freshman 
Offensive Lineman. 
"Winning that award was 
something of an inward goal that I set for myself at the beginning of practice," he said, "and I was really glad to get it.. .but I wouldn't have been demoralized if I hadn't. This is something special for me, though, because Larry won the same award his freshman year, and it's an honor .for me to have done the same 

Welfare cuts spark riots 
Police reported "quite a log of
NEW YORK UPI-­
arrests" on looting and other
Thousands of blacks angered by 
charges.
welfare cuts rampaged through 
the East New York section of The protest gained momentumBrooklyn yesterday, setting fire after a rally attended by 500to houses, breaking _store win­demonstrators heard speechesdows, and _looting. 
denouncing welfare cutbacks made necessary by a reduction of state aid to the city and wholesale layoffs of city workers. It was sponsored by an organization calling itself The Black Coalition. 
7:30 to 9:00 art exhibit­michael Ianier: icarus, new photographs, isis, 
The rally spilled into a surrounding 10 block area and the crowd increased in numbers. The 
fieldhouse. 

protesters blocked traffic, set
8: oo lecture-james a. 
garbage fires, hurled rocks and
goode: trying to tame 
refuse through shop windows and 
the republic or how to 
snatched up merchandise. One
get through the year 
police spokesman said the looting 
without hating yourself, 
was "WIDESPREAD," especially on Rockaway
library auditorium. 

Boulevard and Amboy Street,
8:30 musical-nd-smc 
which subsequently was roped off 
theater: oliver, 
by 10 police.
o'laughlin auditorium. 
Six houses at Christopher and Sutter Streets-four of them
nd-smc· 

vacant-: burst into flame and a 
ATTENTION ALL 
SOPHOMORES 

Sophomores may start placing ring orders NOW Hours: 1:30-4:30 Monday Thru Friday m off1ce on second f1oor of ND Bookstore 
Acollege graduate just doesn't getthe warm welcome he used to. 
There's a lot of competition in the job market' 
today. And a college degree alone just 
doesn't carry as much weight with some 
employers. 

That's why Honeywell developed their 
Postgraduate Studies Program. A program 
designed-exclusively for college graduates. 
No matter what your college major is. If 
you can qualify you'll be ready to learn com­
puters from one of the world's top computer 
manufacturers and leading educators, 
Honeywell. 

You'll be ready to start right off in the fastest growing industry around. An industry that doubles in size and opportunity every five years. 
There still won't be any brass bands around to greet you, but you will get a warm handshake. All you have to do is mail this coupon. Or call (312) 368·0688. 
r----------------,
Admissions Officer 1 Honeywell Institute of Information Sciences La Salle Wacker Building, 221 North La Salle St. 1 Chicago, Illinois 60601 .. I 
0 I would like additional information on your prpgram. 
I am interested in 

0 Day 0 Evening classes. 
Name:____________:: 
College Address:__________ 
_______Phone:______ 
Home Address:_________ 
_______Phone: ______ 
Approved for veterans. I
L----------------J 
Honeywell 
Approved by the Office of the Superintendent of Public Instruction State of Illinois. 
few minutes later two other buildings apparently were set afire at Pitkin and Powell Avenues. Equipment from a number of fire stations was rushed into the area and more than 300 firefighters were at the scene. 
Roving bands harassed the firemen and threw bottles at NEW OFFICERS -John Krasnostein, (seated), of Westernthem. The firefighters requested Australia, named president of the executive committee of the In­police protection and scores of ternational Students Association yesterday. Also elected were; (1. toofficers were moved into the area 

r.), Paul Chang, ND Coordinator (Jamaica); Colin Liu, Viceof the four alarm and three alarm President (Hong Kong); Amaury Velez, Treasurer (Puerto Rico) andblazes. 
Angela Raaf, SMC Coordinator-secretary (Bolivia). 
Off-campus tenant info service organized 
An information service for off­campus students composed of third year law students under the supervision of a practicing at­torney will begin operation next semester, according to Off­Campus Commissioner John 
Drost. The Student Tenant 
In­

formation Service will be housed problems between tenant and in the Off-Campus Office in the their landlords. basement of the LaFortune Drost said that students Student Center. It will operate planning to sign a lease before "in accord with the rules of the leaving for the summer should Indiana Supreme Court" and consult the Off-Campus Office for advise students in tenant and pertinent information. The landlord relations, Drost said service, which will operate full yesterday. time next year, is now on a 
The service, which was temporary schedule. Problems organized by the Off-Campus should be taken to Dave Tushar, Commission and the ND Legal Student government judicial Aid and Defender Assoc., arose coordinator, for the present, out of the need to arbitrate Drost added. 
Lah calls for Ecology camp volunteers 
Four volunteers are needed to help staff an ecology camp for sixth graders from May 10 to May 14, Community Relations Commissioner Dave Lah an­nounced yesterday. 
The volunteers will "lead nature walks and discussions and act as camp counsellors in general," Lah said. He added that they are looking especially for students knowledgable of forestry, biology, astronomy, geology or camping. They will accept students who can only make it for one or two days. 
The camp, which is only 40 miles from Notre Dame, is funded by Model Cities. There is no pay involved for the volun­teers, but everything is free at the camp. 
Anyone interested should contact Dave Lah at 1535. 

DePaul Society collection Tuesday 
Tuesday, May 11, has been proclaimed "St. Vincent DePaul Society Day" by Student Government and the Hall Presidents Council. 
On that day, section leaders will go from room to room collecting used clothing, shoes, and athletic equipment. Books, furniture, rugs, refrigerators, book cases, lamps, old TV's and radios can be left inside the loading dock door of each hall for pickup by the society early Wednesday morning. 
Collected articles will be sold in the St. Vincent DePaul Store downtown. All money eventually goes to some charitable use. 
Jack Candon is coordinating the drive at SMC, with Dave Lah charge of the Notre Dame 
project. 
ACCOUNTING MAJORS 
ASK ANY CPA ABOUT 
THE BECKER CPA REVIEW COURSE 
~~-------------------­
STUDY SCWND§ 
IMPROVE GRADES 
Th~"S~~:e A~~~~~ ~h~~m~~~tl~~' ·-1~ 
USE STUDY SOU'· 'JS 
·.1crease Your Concentration ,.••• ~ ',,...,rove 
Your Comprehension. Study .'\t l Fastl:r R2'1e. 
ELECTRONICALLY PRODUCED !i>Ol ~DS 
CAUSE THI5 TO HAPPEll f' 1 ~-<~se Specify 8 Track Tape, Cassette, Or LP Record Send Check or ~~oney Order -$9.95 Each Include 75c Handling and Postage 
Sound Concepts, Inc., -Sox 3852 Charlottesville, Va. 22902 









