

ANNEXATION LOSES 6 TO 3 
Spectators cheer announcement of vote 
four members who had already (South Bend and Notre 'Dame) 
by Cliff "Buzz" Wintrode 
stated opposition to the measure both have profited from our made the difference. independence over these 125 
The South Bepd Common An earlier vote to report the years, and we look forward to Council last night decisively de­annexation ordinance unfavora­another 125 years of equal part­feated Mayor Lloyd Allen's bid bly to the Cbuncil was also 6-3. nership with the city of South to annex the university complex The Comrmn Council when it Bend." of Notre Dame, St. Mary's, and was hearing discussion on the Laven said after the final vote Holy Cross Junior College. measure was as a committee of that this defeat marked the end 
The final vote of 6-3 was read the whole and this is when the of the annexation prograg for by the city clerk amid loud to unfavorably to He added that he
vote report this Council. 
applause and cheering in the 
council was taken. would not approve of any an­Council chambers at the down­Predictably, university offici­nexation proposals of the land town City-County building. 
als and their supporters were immediately to the east and west 
The decision against annexa­jubilant over the outcome and of Notre Dame. tion had been expected. Two of city officials and theif suppor­University officials contended the three reportedly undecided ters were less than happy. Both last night that these possible city council members prior to last sides considered the vote crucial. expansions, which they deem night's meeting voted against an­Chair man of the Common necessary to the city, does not nexation arid-~coupled with the Council Robert Laven, who had depend on the annexation of 
publicly supported annexation Notre Dame. JO tell Coundl before last night, was "disap­Mayor Allen said last night pointed" over the outcome. that it would be "unfair" not to "This was a very integral part annex Notre Dame and then

Citizens oppose ND annexation 
of our annexation program," annex the land around Notre said Laven. "We are disappoin­Dame.
by Don .R-uane wn very necessary if we're going ed peacefully to all viewpoints in to continue to annex in that spite of the uncomfortably ted, but we will get over it." Spokesmen for the city and 
Ten residents of the South direction." He said the only so-warm temperature in the roow. Allen said last night that the for the university in addition to Bend community, including Paul lution to the problem is to in-A former resident of South passage of the Notre Dame an­members of the crowd talked Gilbert of Gilbert's Mens Stores, crease "the head count" to se-Bend, Rodney Moyer was also nexation was "essential to the during the marathon five-hour expressed their views concerning cure more money. for annexation saying it is "high survival of South Bend." He session. Some members of the the annexation of Notre Dame, Richard Lannnna of 315 W. time that people who work in could not be reached for com­council just before voting asked St. Mary's and Holy Cross Junior An g e I a B I v d . ad dressed the the city but live outside its limits ment after the final decision. questions of both sides to clear College before the Common council from the viewpoint of consider how they can contri­Father Edmund Joyce, Notre up any doubts that may have Council Monday night. Their o­the urban sociologist. An Associ-bute" to its welfare. He called Dame Executive Vice-President still been had. pinions were in opposition to ate professor of sociology at himself a "great fan" of the was "very happy" and consider­. Th~ city opened the meeting the ordinances by a 6-4 margin. Notre Dame, Lannnna said an-Notre Dame community -adding ed the outcome to be in the best with their presentation demon­
The first resident to speak nexation was "in the best inter-that he would gladly pay any interests of the educational insti­strating why it felt that annex­after the meeting was opened to ests of the city and schools taxes assesed on his home should tutions and the town. ation was "essential." the public was Charles W. Hahn involved," although it is "no his area be annexed. Moyer lives "Annexation would have been The reasons the city cited for of 1619 E. Colfax A venue,. The panacea for the problems of the in Clay county. a barl move," said Joyce. "We supporting the annexation were life-long resident of South Bend city." The final resident to speak in the same reasons that have been said he thinks Notre Dame and Lamanna said the issue had to favor of the annexation was NO soph dies of give.n all along: increased money St. Mary's are "very important" be solved now or it would con-Ralph Mullins of 415 E. Broad­from tax rebated because of the but the city has " intense inner tinue for years and eventually way. He asked the Common head injuries added population, the need to problems." He termed the issue arrive in some form. He added Council members to "look favo­annex Notre Dame before an­
in auto accident

at hand as what is happening to that postponing the issue would rably" upon the people and their nexing the northern suburban the minorities within the city not decrease the chances of taxa-problems in the inner city. He A Notre Dame sophomore areas of the city, and to and the continually rising costs t i o n being a p pI i e d to the criticized Notre Dame President .lost his life early Sunday morn­"legalize" the backup fire pro­of providing for them. schools. Theodore M. 1-esburgh for not ing from injuries sustained in a tection that the city now pro­
Hahn said the problems The standing room only audi-informing the students of these fall from a car's trunk on Notre vides Notre Dame. should be shared by areas ence which overflowed into the problems especially since he is Dame Ave. The question of whether the bounding South Bend and that outside lobby, appeared to be David Beck, a student from city would financially benefit
(continued on page 8)
annexation is a "step in a direct-against the ordinances but listen-Dayton, Ohio, was admitted to from annexation hinged on St. Joseph's Hospital at 2:05am whether it would underwrite Sunday morning. By 3:15 am the campus costs for police and 
Monday, the news of David's fire protection, garbage pickup, death was received by the Secur­and road maintenance. ity office. The city said it was not re­


Student Government pleads drug 
Death was caused by severe quired to provide these services head wounds received in the fall. while the university said these 

case of arrested N D student 
by Ed Ellis 
process. According to Urda, the 
Mr. Pears told the Observer that services would have to be provi­
Observer News£ditor whole basis of the new Code 
the circumstances of the acci­ded if annexation was approved.
Student Government this would be called into question if 
dent were investigated by the The city from this stance pre­week has taken up the cause of the Dean of Students were al­South Bend police, and a full dicted a profit of $40,000 a year
Notre Dame Senior Tim Bren­lowed to circumvent the require­report had not yet reached him. with assuredly more comingments of the Code. 
nan, one of the students arrested Beck, a student in the college. from any revenue sharing plan
Brennan is currently living at
by South Bend Police in the of Engineering, was residing at that is adopted by Congress. 
his off-campus residence and au­
drug raids before Christmas. 832 N. Notr~ Dame Ave. The University from their
diting his second semester
Brennan was suspended by Dean Fr. James Riehle C.S.C. Another Notre Dame student stance predicted a deficit of over 
courses at the University, wait­
of Students Rev. James Riehle came to trial in felony court. was also injured in an accident $100,000 alone solely consi­
ing for the appeal in the campus
and according to Student Body This would not be until late this past weekend. dering the police budget and an
judicial system. Student Body
Vice-President Mark Winings and Spring or early Summer, and Julias Lafrassia was admitted additional $250,000 city cost
President Dave Krashna said he
Judicial Coordinator Rich Urda, Brennan would be kept out of St. Joseph's at 6:30 pm Sun­from turning over the campus
to

will meet with Brennan and Rie­
he was not told by Riehle that the University until then. The day night for treatment of his fire station to the city. 
hle on Thursday to discuss the
he had the right to an appeal of other three students involved in injuries. Lafrassia, who resides at The · city introduced an 
case, but he also mentioned that
this decision under the new Judi­the case were arrested for mis­403 Howard Hall, was struck by "impartial expert" from Saint cial Code. demeanors. Their case comes up 
an auto while hitching on Notre Louis, Russell Riley, a profes­
it will be Brennan, and not the
Urda said that after looking at today. Dame Ave. The treatment sional architect and engineer,the Code, the right to appeal was Winings said that Riehle was Student Government, that proved sufficient and the stu­who said it was necessary to
makes the final appeal. 
established ~nd action would be at first unwilling to call the dent was later released from the annex Notre Dame to maintain a
According to Winings, Fr.
taken to insure the appeal, appeals board into session, and if hospital. "growing and healthy" South
Riehle's major concern with not
which will be to the tripartite the Dean of Students persisted The reported occurances at Bend in its position as a "strong
granting the appeal right away is 
appeals board set up under the in his refusal, Student Govern­Flanner Tower were not the essential" central city. 
ment intended to bring the case that if the appeal were successful
Code. only incidents of vandalism to He endorsed the ordinance 
Brennan was suspended under before the Student Life Council and the suspension were lifted, 
strike the Notre Dame campus and said the city needed taxable the "clear menace to the Univer­at its meeting next Monday. The Brennan would graduate. If he 
this past weekend. area that could be utilized for sity" clause of the new judicial SLC is the body which has legis­were then convicted, in Riehle's Two reports involving autos arty purpose especially residan­charter. The suspension was to lative poweroverthisinter­words, "A Notre Dame Alumnus were filed with the o(fice of remain in efft;ct until his case mediate stage of the appeals would be going to jail." ( continued on page 8)
(Continued on page 8) 


Tuesday, January 26, 1971 Page 2 
SU clashes with K of C HPC plans allocation 
by Milt Jones 
of student funds
Student Union Director Bob ies, not to 'stifle' his associa­Pohl refuted Knights of Colum­tion's activities." the distribution ot the $1300
In last night's meeting The 

bus President Bob Walton's alle­"The Student Union does not alotted to it by Student Govern­
Hall President's Council laid the 

gation that the Student Union desire totalitarian control over ment. Tabling HPC Chairman
groundwork for its final plans in 

was "totalitarian" and "stifling." the KnightsofColumbus," John Barkett's proposed guide­Pohl said the charges were pro­stated Pohl. The Student Union lines for futun: consideration, bably due to a "misconception chairman said that he wants the the Council, after lengthy deli­of the Student Union by Walton. two bodies to work together, beration, decided that halls re­According to Pohl, this mis­along with other groups schedu-SMC lets co-eds speak questing financial assistance conception could be due to two ling events to avoid conflicts. by Ann-Therese Darin I -important, varied from those should submit simple proposals 
reasons. Walton might be react­The rules of the Commission are who felt that "this is a two-way without financial statements. ing to "a past experience of the solely those necessary for the "Student opinions at St. Ma-street -St. Mary's docsn't have These proposals will be reviewed differences of opinion between coordination of events." Pohl ry's arc going to have a greater to give up everything to merge" by a three man board composed the Knights of Columbus and feels that "two or more events weight than the faculty's," to those who believed that of HPC's Executive Director the Student Union over how on one night can be dangerous claimed Dr. Thomas Conway, "More girls are needed to make a Fritz Hoefer, Alumni Hall Presi­movies should be handled." Pohl on some weekends, and safe on SMC history professor, at last more pleasant social atmo­dent Tim Schaffer, and Cava­also thinks that Walton "could others. There should be coordi-night's Student Affairs Commit-sphere." naugh President Ed Charbennet. have had some preconceived no­nation of events to avoid the tee meeting which disc-ussed the Basically, the students at the This committee will render final tions on why the Student Union financial loss of having too many Parks-Mayhew report. meeting believed that co-educ­judgement on all proposals. called him into talk. We called activities on a weekend when He substantiated this point by ation is very likely in some form. In other business Chairman him into talk about his movie students will have little free time saying that although the report Although there were many re­Barkett announced that Stan­policies and to coordinate mov-. . t , was "hazy in places and could asons in the past for maintaining ford Hall President Carles Cruz 
to partlClpa e. have anything read into it like a a woman's college (such as _that jdid not return for the spring 
t----------------&Roschach test,'' most of the 
women were formerly excluded semester because of financial dif­'faculty are afraid to speak on it. from male-dominated institu­ficulty caused by a death in the
tSocial Commission Needs t"Only 40% of the facult~ even family. Stanford is in the process
tions and in order to get an & showed up at the meetmg to education, colleges such as St. of electing a new president att f discuss the report," he said. Mary's were established), stu­
this time. & T k M & At the meeting, student opin-dents seemed to agree that Fr. Thomas J. Tallarida, for­' ic et anager :ion, which Conway termed all co-education would be beneficial mer assistant rector of Zahm hall 
bec<Juse "if you can't get along has been named Rector of that
' Kepler 
with the rest of the people in the hall replacing Fr. Lawrence Saha world, what good is an educa­who has left the University.
I and Assistants I Motor Sales tion going to be to you?" A final point wa~ made about 
' 
They foresee these problem the amount of unpleasant trash
'63 Corvair auto. $395 
areas: coeducation as a limit to caused by the distribution of
t f :~: ~~~~~n~ ~r ~:.u!~ic~~96595 
the number of educational op­Student Union advertisements tn
t t 
'66 Chevy 4 dr. 6 cy. auto. $895 
tions open to them; co-ed resi­Flyer form, especially during the dences; and the fear that "Where week immediately preceeding 
All cars sold with lifetime 
graduate schools are dominant Christmas. Chairman Barkett 
warrent...Top prices paid for 
courses are as specialized as the promised to look into the matter
I ICAll: 748Ci or 1367 
used cars 
professor's education" and that with the intention of reviewing
2306 Western Ave. 
this will happen to St. Mary's if· the distribution policy of the
t t 
Phone -288-3250 
it merges with Notre Dame. Student Union. 

IT'S ABOUT TIME 
It sure would be great to have all the time you Evelyn Wood's method, your reading and studying need for the things you like to do. And 1£ your time will be drastically reduced. You'll know some reading work load is keeping you from some of important secrets of test-taking and be able to the finer things, here's an important suggestion. keep up better with your studies -as well as Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics will show you those social activities you're missing now. Time how to read 3 to 10 times faster with equal or -that's what it's all about. Do something about better comprehension. Once you've mastered it now. 
Free Mini L~ssons Tod•y 4, 8, 8 PM Center for Contlnuln& Education ( Notre D•me Ave. -•cross from the Morris Inn) 
.Evel,n Wood Reading D,namies 
---------------------------------------------. 
Tuesday, January 26, 1971 
Page 3 
Manson verdict: guilty of murder.! 
LOS ANGELES (UPI) ­Charles Manson and three young women he lured into 
his wild nomadic cult were con­victed of first degree murder yesterday in the savage and senseless slaughter of actress Sharon Tate and six other help­less victims. 
A predominantly middle-aged jury returned a verdict finding the self-styled "Jesus Christ" guilty of sending his "robots" out to stab and shoot to death five persons at the Tate home and two others at the residence of wealthy supermarket owner Leno LaBianca. 
The girls, Susan Atkins, 22, Patricia Krenwinkel, 23, and Leslie Van Houten, a former high school beauty queen, &-'ere charged only with the LaBianca slayings. 
The same seven man, five 
woman jury now will decide 
starting Thursday, the punish­
ment for the 36-year-old Manson 
and the dark-haired trio who followed his every command from love-making to homicide. 
They have a choice between life imprisonment or death in the gas chamber at San Quentin. 
Manson and the three girls heard the verdicts in absolute silence in a courtroom in which 20 deputy sheriffs stood guard. 
As he was led out Manson 
dressed in a white blouse, black 
scarf and trousers called out to 
the judge: "We weren't allowed 
to put on a defense, old man." 
Manson also said, "I think the 
jury's guilty." 
The three young women 
dressed in blue denim prison 
dresses with darker blue sweaters 
put their heads together and 
whispered as the verdicts were 
read bycourtclerkGene 
Darrow. 
lt took Darrow 16 minutes to 
read the 27 separate verdicts 
which included four counts of 
conspiracy to commit murder as 
well as the individual killings. 
Defense attorney Paul Fitz­
gerald said the defendants ex­
pected the guilty verdicts and 
that their lawyers were "dis­
appointed but not surprised." 
"We thought we lost the case 
when we lost the change of 
venue motion. We had about as much chance of a fair trial in Los Angeles as Sam Sheppard had in Cleveland." 
The verdicts came almost a year and one half after the slay­ings and, in the course of the uproarious trial the victims were 
all but forgotten characters in 
the case. 
They were: 
Miss Tate, 26, daughter of an 
Army colonel who became known for her performance in "Valley of the Dolls." She was married to Polish film director Roman Polanski and was eight and one half months pregnant at the time of her death. 
Jay Sebring, 35, at one time 
Miss Tate's finance. ~bring was 
a top Hollywood men's hair 
stylist who numbered such cus­
tomers -as Frank Sinatra among 
his clientele. 
Vo ityck Frykowsky, 37, a 
friend of Polanski who had 
worked with him on movies in 
Europe and came to the United 
States as a sort of hanger-on 
known to be a user of drugs. 
Abigail Folger, 26, a member 
of the millionaire Folger coffee 
family. A graduate of Radcliffe, 
she met Frykowsky in New 
York and formed a liaison with 
him coming to Los Angeles as 
house guests of the Po!anskis. 
Steven Parent, I 8, the son of 
a carpenter who was visiting the 
young caretaker at the Polanski 
home the night of the murders. 
Leno LaBianca, 48, president 
and chief stockholder of the 
Gateway Supermarkets. 
Rosemary LaBianca, 48, his 
wife, a pretty dark-haired wo­
man. 

The slayings took place the 
nights of Aug. 8-9-10, 1969 and 
at first police did not connect 
them despite the scrawling of 
the word "pig" in blood at both 
homes. 

Manson and his "family" 
moved from the Spahn ranch, an 
old Western movie lot on the 
outskirts of Los Angeles, several 
weeks after the murders to Goler 
Wash in Death Valley where 
they set up another commune 
with lookouts and field tele­
phones. 

In October, I 969, National 
Park Service rangers, California 
Highway Patrol officers and dep-
By John Powers campus academic and student Bill Lorimer, outgoing first political life. In the past, there president of the Graduate Stu-has been "no effort to stand up
for basic human rights on thedent Union, feels that the U1ion 
has gotten well 'situated in its part of grad students. This has 
changed."
first year and a half of existence 
but is just beginning to serve the • When the GSU demanded re­
. presentation on the Student Life
needs of the 1800 graduate stu­dents at Notre Dame. Co unci I, an SLC resolution 
allowed four members from this
The problems of the graduatestudent begin with the school's group representing about 25% of 
tradition. ND is funded and pri-the Notre Dame student body.
Subsequently, the Board of
marily known as an undergradu­ate institution. In a recent com-Trustees denied this resolution, 
but two graduate students aremunication with the Board of presently members of the new 
Trustees, Lorimer said that one Academic Council. 
member was not aware that 
The most beneficial part that there were graduate students at grad students could ·have would Notre Dame. "There's no money 
be in the student life on campus,
ingraduateeducation,"said L · f G d t t d t
onmer ee1s. ra ua e s u en sLorimer, speaking about the fe­could work through the channelsderal government's role in aiding 
that undergraduates afready
and now abandoning graduate havt:. 
education. 

uties rounded up Manson and 
about 30 other members of his 
family in Death Valley but the 
charges were automobile theft ­
not murder. 
In December, 1969, Susan At­
kins, held in Los Angeles i.n the 
mu!'Jer of musician Gary Hin­
man, told cellmates about the 
Tate murders and the case broke with a grand· jury returning in­dictments that month. 
Miss Atkins testified before 
the grand jury but later recanted 
her confession and refused to 
testify at the trial. 
The prosecution case then 
hung largely on the testimony of 
20-year-old Linda Kasabian who 
said she accompanied "family" 
members to both the Tate and 
LaBianca homes and singled out 
Susan Atkins, Patricia Krenwin­
kel, LeslieVanHouten,and 
Charles "Tex" Watson as the 
killers. 
Apollo countdown begins 
CAPE KENNEDY (UPI) ­The countdown started smooth­ly yesterday and doctors said Apollo 14's astronauts were in good shape and "ready to fly" Sunday on their nine day half million mile round trip to the moon. 
Alan B, Shepard, 47 year old space pioneer, and rookies Stu­art A. Roosa 37 and Edgar D. Mitchell 40, passed their last major prelaunch physical exam­inations without difficulty. IX. Charles A. Berry "certified" them for flight on the basis of preliminary Iaboratory results. 
"They are certified and ready to fly" said the astonauts' chief examiner. "There are no prob­lems." 
After spending four hours in the doctor's office the three pilots returned to spacecraft trainers to bone up on critical parts of their ambitious expedi­tion to a valley on the moon. 
The countdown started promptly at 9 am EST and proceeded through the first hours without a hitch. Most of yesterday's launch pad activity 
Bill Lorimer: GSU well situated 
Undergraduates could benefit from the advice, experience and special skills that former under­graduates like themselves pos­sess. All student activities could benefit if the graduate students are willing to give their time. They would be, said Lorimer, "if properly approached." 
Lorimer sees the GSU as a primary organization for starting to integrate the graduate stu­dents into student life. But the problems aren't only outside the organization. "It's still new enough so that most graduate students have some resistance to it. We have the most trouble with our own members." 
was devoted to checking electr­ical systems in the lunar landing craft and installing explosive starting devices in the five boost­er rocket engines. 
Shepard, Roosa, and Mitchell have been restricted to their quarters, their training building, and a beach house for the past two weeks in a new medical 

An Atlas-Centaur launch ve­hicle stands poised on Cape Ken­nedy to launch the first lntelsat IV series of communications sat­ellites. The frequently delayed shot is expected to go January 25. 

isolation program designed to keep them healthy for launch. 
Their contacts here are limit­
ed to a select group of 112 
people all of whom are under 
close medical surveillance. Berry 
said he hoped to reduce that 
number of contacts during the 
next five days. 
Other aspects of preparation 
for the $400 million mission 
were going well. Four large jet 
tracking planes left nearby Pat­
rick Air Force base yesterday for 
stations on the other side of the 
world where they will support 
the mission. 
One of the jets will operated 
out of Perth, Australia, another out of Darwin, Australia and two will be based temporarily at the Cocos Islands in the Indian Ocean. 
One of those jets will serve as a "Moonrock Express" to rush a batch of lunar samples from Samoa near the recovery area to the lunar Ireceiving laboratory 
in Houston. 
Correction 
The Observer story concerning Fr. Maurice Amen contained an error yesterday. The story claim­ed that Fr. Amen called in the Alcoholic Beverage Commission Police to clear up a party on the seventh floor. What he did do was threaten to call in the po­lice, but did not actually do so. 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::--;::::::: 
Juniors! 
Cl••• of '72 Make your appomtment now for your Senior yearbook portrait. Monday through Friday ­January 25-29 in the Dining Halls. 
MEMORIAL. MASS 
(for recently deceased students) 
David Beck Daniel IJietzler 
James Krumm Francis Pulte 
S•cred He•rt Church 
1:11 PM Wednesd•y 
Fat'ler Hesburgh -Prine. Concelebrant 
At ND, graduate programs are "minimal and dispirited." The GSU has at least brought about a general awareness that there are graduate students. on campus, aJld over I00 are teaching. Like undergraduates, many are be­coming more . involved in the 
TM UDierWr fi -~ ..,.., during the col.._ semeswr exceptvacations by the student$ of tt1e University of Not,. Dame and St. M•rv's Cotlllp. Subscriptions may be f:Ur<:tiiuel for $1 from The Ob­ief'liW Bern 11, Notru Dan>;t. 1nd. 46Z ~. SG&c:..nd C~Pi~ p;;;.o~ P&!\1, N~tl'<'! o.~o. !r.Q. ~asc.. 
Page 4 
'HE OBSERVE 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
Gen Corso, Editor Jolm Knorr, Executive Editor 
Bruce Reick, Business Manager 
Founded :\lov. 3, 1966 Notre Dame, Ind. 
Get Moving 
"The full significance of these changes (from single-sex education to coeducation) in other major Universities have been made stridently apparent to colleges and universities in the decade of the 60's through the influence of student opinion and the emergence ofstudent power." 
Park-Mayhew Report 
So who's doing that here? 

Who at the lhiversity of Notre Dame, is
' 

enunciating student'opinion and marshalling student support? Who is gathering student reaction to Park-Mayhew? Who is co-ordinating St. Mary's 
and Notre Dame as they prepare for the most important struggle in three years? W~o is making sure that student opinion is influencmg, and that student power is emerging? . . 
The answer to all these rhetorical q uest10ns Is, of course, nobody. Bill Wilka and Tim Conners, the Notre Dame students on the Notre Dame-St. Mary's .coeducational Steering Connittee, have been spectacularly quiet. Judging by their efforts to gather student opinion, one is forced to wonder whether they have read the report or even know of its existence. 
At St. Mary's the situation has been markedly better. The two St. Mary's women on the committee, Carol Henninger and Julie Rak (see letter) have initiated a program in which members of the St. Mary's Academic Commission (student, elective posts all) are asked their opinion about Park-Mayhew, co-education, etc. Later the St. Mary's part of the committee will intervie_w students at hall meetings. Mrs. Rak and Miss Henninger have not forgotten that their responsibility means m·aking informed student opinion a potent force when the Board of Trustees deliberate in April. 
Towards that end, The Observer will print the entire Park-Mayhew report, uncu_t, in its Friday edition. It will fill up two pages of newsprint; and contain both the recommendation and what Drs. Park and Mayhew consider a rationale for those recommendations. Then students can judge for themselves. 
Maybe a response-maybe a concerted response, maybe an angry response -will mo~e Notre Dame's student government out of Its 
self-appointed stasis and into something remotely connected with searching out and serving student opinion. But we don't know for certain. 
Let them know what you think of the report when you read it. 
Managing Editor: Bill Carter NIGHT STAFF 
News Editor: Ed Ellis Night Editor: John Abowd Editorial Page Editor: T.C. Treanor Headlines: Bruce Koehler, Features Editor: Dave Larrrn ers Marty Miller, Deb Carella Sports Editor: Terry Shields Layout: Chris Johnson, Campus Editor: Steve Lazar Dan Ryan Advertising Manager: Bruce Barker Controller of the night: John 
Knorr 
7HB OBSDHIER. 

The most important thing that most Notre 
Dame students did on December 9, was what they 
didn't. They didn't vote. By this nonaction they 
defeated the proposed new constitution of Krash­
na's Administration. While the motion carried 
roughly three to one, the referendum fell far short 
of the 60% voter turnout it required to be valid. 
Why did the new constitution die this strange 
sort of death? Apathy is the answer that many, 
especially student government officials, are likely 
to give. Yet to blame the poor turnout is to 
neglect several important facts. 
First, less people voted in the referendum, than who voted in the Student Senate elections, by a good thousand votes. Why are students apathetic for one election, and concerned for another, especially since the SBP emphasized the referen­dum more than the Senate elections? 
The logical answer is that there are several hundred students, who are not apathetic, and yet declined to vote in the referendum. One of the most obvious group of concerned nonvoters is those who abstained for voting on the idea that not voting would be the best way to kill the new constitution, and as such belong to the group opposed to it. 
More importantly, however, are those students who declined to vote as a sign of dissatisfaction with the existing and pro-posed constitutions. To these students, voting for Krashna's constitution would stop any meaningful reform of student government reform, while voting for the existing constitution would be saying yes to the existing monstrousity. Some of them liked the idea of the President's Council but were repelled by the almost per letter retention of major defects in the proposed constitution. Others considered the choice between an anemic, powerless Student Senate and an anemic, powerless President's Coun­cil as an insult to the student body. 
This, of course, is not apathy. By not voting they said "neither", not "I don't care". They do care, care too much to choose between two unacceptable alternatives. Who was better, Hitler 
Tuesday, January 26, 1971 

or Stalin? Do you prefer death by crucifixion or burning at the stake? If you don't choose, you're hopelessly apathetic and irresponsible. 
Unfortunately the refusal to accept such mad­ness will have bad results. In face of this fake "apathy", student leaders will tend to forget this vital issue. Misreading a demand for real improve­ment, as indifference, reform can very well be denied the student body. 
"Let the Senate reform itself". This was a popular slogan of those who opposed the new constitution. The Senate better. The SBP has offered vinegar and gall instead of real improve­
ment. The SLC is tripartite, and therefore unsuit­able. That leaves the Senate. Unfortunately some probably used Senate self-reform as an excuse for the preservation of the intolerable status quo. 
If so they have perpetrated a grave injustice on the student body. Many of those who voted against the proposed constitution are totally dis­satisfied with the present constitution, but felt that the President's Council was a step in the wrong direction. Many of those who voted for Krashna's constitution did so on a lesser of two evils basis. Together with the concerned nonvoters, these form a coalition of great importance. It is they, the people deeply concerned, to whom the Senate, and student government is now respon­sible. The bizarre nature of the referendum had split the deeply concerned and its results allow the deeply concerned to be neglected. 
Heed them well, you most impotent potentates, for their's is the wrath to fear. If not a majority of the students, the deeply concerned are a majority gf the students who vote. They demand improve­m~nt, listen to them, SBP and SLC hopefuls. 
Frustration of the deeply concerned now may mean more than Joe Blow isn't SBP. There is a great deal of apathy, and hundreds of the deeply concerned are transformed to that dread lethargy each year. One cannot say for sure that this is the last chance for ND student government, but one can't be sure it isn't. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
mendation.

Editor: Editor:
2.) A study of the exact

Yesterday's editorial in the 
How I crave an 'en co u n­
financial investment in the re­

::>bserver requires supplemental ter-confrontation' (-meeting-is
port, including the cost of the

information. 
the word for it for those fud­It is my feeling that a student dy-duds over 30) with Mr. Edreport. 
3.) that even the editorial

publication should provide perti­Ellis, the Observer's jeering, job­
board reread the passages on 

nent information to the com­ber-now 1i ng journalist. His
student life.

munity it purportedly servi~es. crunkling crudities are so boor-There has been a distinct display 
I personally found the report

of e I it ism regarding dissem­ishly bad it is apparent he needs 
ambiguous enough to allow for

ination of the information with­a mother away from home to
innovation and extension. It is

in the Mayhew-Park report. brunt his blusters and hone his
my recommendationthata

Your editorial board, and a hand horizons. I nominate myself. My
corollary be worked up respond­

ful of student leaders have had first project would be to cleanse
ing to social needs. 

contact with the report in its that foolishly-flippant, flagrant­
The report is elastic enough to

entirety and now control . stu­ly-foul Aegean Stable of a
support a number of such corol­

dent reaction to it through edi­mouth with a lavish lopping of
laries which will respond to the

torials and personal assessments Lava Soan. 
· highly individualized needs of

published within the context of this student body. Sincerely,your paper. 
Mrs. Anthony Black -, recommend the following Julia Rak. 

St. Mary's facultv wiferemedial actions on your part: 

1.) the publication of the Thorough and theological thanks,
The Observer will publish ver­

Mom
relevant partsofthereport 
batim the entire Park-Mayhew 
Best,

meaning the section of recom-next friday. 
Eadie.
T1ze Controllers. 


Tuesday, January 26, 1971 THE OBSERVER. Page 5 
Jim Brogan 
Review of ''Love Story" 
What can you say about a 25 week old movie that is deadly? Love Story could quite easily, and perhaps more aptly have been retitled 
The Love Machine. 
It has quite the same effect as peeling onions. No better, no worse. Like onions, it is the smell of the movie that makes one cry, not one's emotions. Love Story bypasses any true emotional response, and simply lays seige to the tear producing mechanisms of the eyes. 
Like any well oiled machine, it needs fuel. The fuel in this movie comes in the' person of Ali MacGraw. Gasoline Ali plays, or rather tries to play, one of the most confusing roles since Bert Lahr's 7 character performance in the play, The Beauty Part. She is supposed to be a musical genius, the world's biggest wise acre, a Radcliffe librarian, student, the poor daughter of an Italian pastry baker, the alluring Ali MacGi'aW: and a fashion plate. 
The size of her wardrobe surely rivals anything seen at St. Mary's, and could only have been brought over from her last movie, Goodbye Columbus, in which she played a rich Jewish girl. 
But her trouble goes deeper than her 
clothes, Gasoline Ali hasn't changed at all 
either. She is still Ali MacGraw fashion 
Model, not Ali MacGraw actress. 
Everyone knows that she dies after 
only 3 years of marriage. Everyone also 
knows that they are supposed to cry at 
Rev. Robert Griffin 
the death scene. But then we all knew to cry when Mickey Rooney's dog got run over in Boy's Town. Miss MacGraw is certainly no dog (in any sense) but her 
character is no deeper than Lassie's. It is as thin as the film it is printed on. As thin as an onion peel. 
The other member of the Love Machine duo is Ryan O'Neal. He is by far the best in the film. But then he had a role, Not a role with much depth, but at least he had a role. He plays a rather convincing Harvard hockey jock, who is also Ali's lover and a nice guy. 
In the course of the film he manages to make it through Harvard Law School, but appears rather foolish for fighting with his father, whom he affectionately calls "Stone Face." Although in Eric Segal's book it is believable that he can hate his cold fish father, it is impossible to believe he .could hate the miscast Ray Milland. 
The aging Ray Milland, appearing for the first time without a toupee, is such a gracious and warm person though he is completely unconvincing in the part of the cold rich father. They seem to be feuding over nothing, and Ryan O'Neal can't even seem to vocalize his feelings. Segal has thrown in this generation gap simply to sell his movie. 
If you go see Love Story be sure to bring along some kleenex. It can make you cry. But this psuedo-romance between the beautiful people is not satisfying in the least. 
Segal has tossed in all the ingredients mental superficiality is what love is all to make his smooth running Love Story about, I would just as soon do without. machine the perfect box office smash, If you want to cry either go to the but it is too simple, too slick to really A&P and buy an onion, or go see Love have much meaning. If Segal's senti-Story. The effect is the same. 
The barber strikes back 
Dear Editor: 
Would you or one of your staff like to 
earn a very fast $50 fee? 
We're looking for useable leads for an on-campus story or photo feature illus­trating the new clean-shaven look among college males. 
If you know of a newsworthy "shave-off" situation on your campus, just drop us a line about it. If we use your lead as the exclusive subject of a story or photo session, we'll send you a check in the amount of $50. 
Here are some hypothetical examples as a guideline ....you'll probably find much better real material to suggest.. .. 
.... a sorority or campus women's club launches a fund-raising drive by offering their services as lady barbers (hair cuts and shaves); 
.... a campus organization sets up a "shaving station" for students in a high traffic location to dramatize "shaving" of funds for student activities; 
.... a business school professor impresses his students with the importance of appearance in a tight job market by keeping a safety razor and shaving sup­plies available in the classroom. Student beards disappear in direct ratio to the decrease in job opportunities; 
.... a political group holds a "shave-off" to symbolize its new resolution to use established methods and work "within the system". 
Be sure to include your phone number when you write. If the lead sounds good, we'll want to call you for details. 
Sincerely, 

College/University Division 
Daniel J. Edelman, Inc. 

A Lenten Retreat into books 

Originally, I had intended to become a cowboy, and for the first six years of school, I got booted and spurred every evening in the hours before supper, and I practised riding a broomstick across the open fields of the little fishing village in Maine where I grew up. Obviously, the demand for cowboys was limited aiong that rugged coast where the lobsters dance on the incoming tide; and one morning I hung up my stirrups just as I was about to become bow-legged from being too long in the saddle, and I rode the tidal plains no more. A couple of 
-years ago, while visiting a cattle ranch in Arizona, I realized I never would have made it as a cowpoke when a full-blooded stallion buckled at the knees and fainted as I attempted to mount his back. Appar­ently the poor beastie thought the moun­tains had collapsed and were falling upon him. 
So now, in the middle years of life, as one who has moved from the old corral to the sheepfold, I am serving for a while as a University Chaplain, and students approach me to ask: "What does a Thi­versity Chaplain do, anyway?" 
"Why," I say, trying to look as merely ornamental as a field lily, "He spins not, neither does he toil." Solomon in all his glory could probably have thought up a more inspired answer, but it seems to me that if a kid has to ask what a chaplain does, I am already a failure in that kid's estimate. I refuse to tell him l am a wound-dresser of the spirit, or a pro­fessional Christian, or one of the Jesus-people who makes a living from practising the ethic of turning the other cheek, because lots of people on campus are also busy with the ancillary chores of the Redemption without the benefit of title as a high priest among the Munch­kins. 
So, for several years now, I have lived among students as a quaint, stout chap who follows with interest the toilet habits of a mutt named Darby O'Gill, and who is the confidant of moppets and urchins in their games around the altar; a man who is slightly cracked in his affection for candlelight Masses, where he can hide his fleshly immensity, like a shy elephant in search of nightfall, in the deep shadows of the sanctuary. 
At heart, of course, I am something 
more than a Friar Tuck who returns to 
his hall, after dining in Elkhart, cheerful 
and fragrant with the odors of bourbon; 
under the Chaplain's ven e er, I have an identity unknown to the animals and children of my playtime, and only half suspected by the students who demand keys and hot water from me in the Rector's office in Keenan. Most simply put, I am a teacher of literature, presently (by choice) unemployed. I have been friends with Moby Dick· for years. As a 
lover of verse, I once got frostbite of the navel from wandering through snowdrifts to pluck a twig from Emily Dickinson's forstyhia bush in Amherst, Massachusetts. Most recently, I waited two wintery hours for a glimpse of W ,H. Auden returning with mutton chops to his pad at 77 St. Mark's Place in Greenwich Village, and afterwards I memorized his telephone number from a New York directory (GR 3-0 3 3 I). Impeccable credentials these may not be, but in a teacher of literature, they must be admired as a sign of 
sincerity. 

During Lent this year, I would like to plan a series of Sunday evening happen­ings --a Retreat into Books, if you will --in which I, as chaplain, might borrow from my own experience as a teacher of literature. Take King Lear, for example, that greatest of all plays written in our language: it is the story of a tragically herioc old man driven to a magnificent madness and rage against heaven and life; it is the archetypal tale of Lear's suffering and redemption in a pre-Christian world as cosmically indifferent to mankind as is 
.that of any alienated story-teller's world 
advertised in the pages of the Times on 
Sunday (Just recall the words of the blinded Gloucester: "As flies are to wan­ton boys, so are we to the gods: they kill us for their sport."). 
Members of a Sunday evening discus­sion group, thinks old ex-cowboy Griff to himself, could open their imaginations to the spectacle of the fiercely-tempered old king tamed by suffering into gentleness and into a regality physicked of pomp. 
Then, if the reflections on Lea'r have been intense and prolonged enough, the group might stop for a supper break: a cup of oyster stew, perhaps, with appro­priately Lenten, fish-or-cheese kinds of sandwiches. Afterwards, the group could compose a Liturgy suitable to the tone and mood of the occasion, with a homily that uses the truths of the play to 
illuminate the mystery of suffering and redemption as it seems revealed to us in the passion and death o the Christ-life. 
The results of this kind of group study could be parochial enough to stir the playwright's bones from the dust after the manner of the ghost of Hamlet's father, unless Lear is understood as a work perfect and complete within itself. As such, one should not force meanings upon the play that can be found only in the documents of faith, nor should the work be read as a case-study in geriatrics. But once we have been stirred by the experience of the play, I think we canconfront the ancienttruthsof Passion-tide with insights never discov­ered in Paul, Augustine, or Aquinas. I also think that Shakespeare can be as informa­tive to our dilemmas of existential faith and Christology as anything we have been reading lately on the pages of "Are You Running With Me, Jesus?". 
Other authors who might be read in a 
Lenten Retreat into Books are Dostoevski 
(especially the pages closest to, and inclu­
sive of, the "Legend of the Grand Inquisi­
tor in the Brothers Karamazov); Melville's 
"Billy Budd"; Peter De Vries' Blood of 
the Lamb; MacLeish'sJ. B.; Hemingway's 
Old Man and the Sea, just to name a few 
of the shorter works. 
This campus will surely recover quickly 
from its fit of euphoria at the news of a 
chaplain's project for the Sundays of 
Lent. Hopefully, however, there will be a 
dozen students who feel that the ultimate 
religious experience has not been 
achieved through a reading of Gibran's The Prophet. If they are willing to expose their minds to the indignity of the stale insights and yellowed notes of an erst­while teacher with faded charms, I wish they would send postcards to l 20 Keenan Hall, and I will begin to plan menus for our little suppers together in the late winter twilights. 
,, 
II: 
!;,11'ill. il 
:1\'
r:: . 



i 
The Chim:s, St. Mary's liter­ary magazine, is now available on the "MC ClJ.!!lPUS. The above .u·twork is by.LSB. · 
r--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Page 6 


~By the author of Rally Round the Flag, BoyR ... DohirGilliR ... t'lr.) 
The Beard of Avon 
Some English teachers insist that Shakespeare couldn't possibly have written the plays attributed to him because the plays are so full of lofty poetry and he was but the son of an ignorant country butcher. 
"Faugh!" say I. What does being a butcher have to do with poetry? It so happens that my own butcher, Wally J. Sigafoos, who never went past third grade has written some of the loveliest poems I ever saw-exquisite things like "Hail to thee, blithe suet" and "Prime ribs do not a pot roast make" and "How do I weigh thee? Let me count the thumbs" and many, many others, too numerous to list here, in­cluding "La belle ham sans merci" and "They're hanging Danny's cleaver in the morning" and "Look on my rump, ye mighty, and despair." I am pleased to say that Mr. Sigafoos will publish a slim volume of his verse next spring, called "NoMan Is a Brisket." Watch for it. 

So let's have no more snide allegations that genius is confined to the upper classes. In fact, the greatest genius the world has ever known, Isaac Newton, was the son of a humble second baseman. (Not only humble, but also unemployed because baseball didn't get invented till a hundred years later.) But these Jowly origins didn't stop Newton from making his great discoveries, culminating of course in the third Jaw of motion: "For every action there is an opposite and equal reaction." 
How true and eloquent these words still are! Take, for example, Miller High Life Beer. Have a sip of Miller; that's the action. Now what is the reaction? Pure pleasure, that's what. Pleasure, delight, contentment, chuckles, twinkles and wreathed smiles. And why such a happy reaction? Because you started with such a happy beer! 
Miller drinkers know their beer is gloriously unique. There simply is no other like it. How can there be? For more than 115 years Miller's marvelous brewing formula has been a secret known to only one man in the entire world-Miller's chief brewmaster-and believe me, there is absolutely no way to sweat the secret out of him. Not only is the formula written in an unbreakable code, but it is also written in in­visible ink! And don't think you can make the invisible ink visible by using heat; it so happens the formula is written on an ice cube. 
But I digress. Shakespeare's most important play is, of course, Hamlet or, as it is sometimes called, A Midsummer's Macbeth. This play tells in living color the story of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark, who one night sees a ghost upon the battlements. (Possibly it is a goat he sees; I have a first folio in Shakespeare's own handwriting which frankly is pretty lousy.) Anyhow, Hamlet is so upset by the sight of this ghost (or goat) that he stabs Polonius and drowns his fat cousin, Butt Malmsey. Thereupon the King gets sore and banishes Hamlet to a leather factory, hollering, "Get thee to a tannery!" Thereupon Ophelia refuses her food till Laertes gets sore and sends her to a restaurant, hollering, "Get thee to a beanery!" Ophelia gets sore too, but she has nobody to holler at except her little dog whom she chases out of the castle, crying, "Out, damned Spot!" She is arrested and fined twenty farthings for cussing, but Portia in an eloquent plea, gets the sentence reduced to life im­prisonment. Thereupon King Lear and his three daughters, Patti, Maxine and Laverne, wishing to restore peace in the realm, decree a day of feasting and squat tag. Everybody has a perfectly splendid time till Hamlet returns disguised as Banquo's ghost (or goat). Well, nat­urally they all get sore when they see Hamlet and pretty soon there is a whacking big fight in which Hamlet kills whoever is around. Finally Hamlet is himself killed by Brer Bodkin, the preacher. 
The play ends with the little dog Spot reciting these immortal lines as he digs a grave for Hamlet: 
Thou wouldst, if couldst, undo thy wrongs, poor Dane, 
Thou wouldst recall thy blows and take thy kicks back, 
For now thou knowst that he who would his friends retain 
Should stab them not, but buy instead a Miller Six-pack. 
* * * 
Yea and verily. And tarry not, goodfriend,Jor once thou triest Miller High Life, the Champagne of Beers, thou'lt scorn to change thy state with kings! Get thee to a brewery! 
Tuesday, January 26, 1971

THE OBSERIJU. 

Lithuanian to die 
While the world press was rejoicing that the escape torture and to prevent reprisals against force of world opinion had averted the death relatives. In 19S2 active resistence ended, but the 
penalty for two Jews and six Basques, the Soviets tension continues. Today Lithuania remains one of quickly and quietly sentenced a Lithuanian to die the strongest centers of passive resistence to the for attempting to flee the country. Kremlin. Lithuania is also the only Catholic 
On Tuesday, Jan. 19, the Lithuanian, Vytautas country inside of the U.S.S.R. Simokaitis, was sentenced to death and his With such a situation, the Russians are anxious pregnant wife to three years in a prison cainp for to make an example of this latest attempted. an attempt last November to hijack a soviet plane escape. Several months ago two Lithuanians to Sweden. The two had only one day to appeal to managed to hijack a plane to Turkey. When two the country 's Supreme Court. Since the Russian students followed in a hijacking two proceedings had been held so secretly and the time weeks later, the experienced Turkish officials for appeal was so short, it is to be feared that there became suspicious. The Turkish government is no chance that world opinion will react in time recently reported that they believe the students to to save this man, his wife and child from death. be Soviet agents, sent to convince the Lithuanians This is just, one would think, the way the Russians to return to the U.S.S.R. and to kill them if they had it planned. refused. Last Thanksgiving Simonas Kudir lJ 
The New York Times, reporting on Thursday, sought and was refused refuge on the U.S. Coast Jan. 21, said that it had received news of the death Guard Cutter Vigilant. Delivered up by American sentence from usually reliable sources. The sources crewman, although a Geneva Convention ARticle said Vytautas Simokaitis, 34, and his wife Grazina, forbids the returning of refugees to hostile 21, then 3 months pregnant, last Nov. 9 tried to governments, Simonas Kudirka is probably no seize an Aeroflot plane between Vilnius and the longer alive.Onewondershow many other resort town of Palanga on the Baltic Sea. Although refugees have been summarily dispatched by the 
Simokaitis was said to have been armed with a Soviets, without the adverse publicity necessary to pistol, he was somehow overpowered and injured make an example of them. by the plane's navigator. The sources said his wife The Soviet government must make an example then tried to set fire to a flammable liquid, but because it is understandably worried about the was stopped. 
recent attempts of these people to reach freedom. Her action is indicative of the desperation of Its imperialistic system must provide a secure their attempted escape. From past national 
prison and stron.... intimidation not only of the experience, they knew that they could not expect 
Jews and Lithuanians but also of the other any mercy from the Soviet Communists. At the 
numerous oppressed, but still quiet, minorities. If end of World War II, the formerly independent 
the moment came that escape from the U.S.S.R. nation of Lithuania, pop. 3,000,000, was invaded was generally feasible, the fleets of hijacked planes by 300,000 Red soldiers and forcibly incorporated might make the U.S. think that the Soviet Air into the Soviet Union. The United States and Force was launching a pre-emptive nuclear attack. United Nations have never recognized this illegal For this reason the Russians would probably annexation. Since then the Communists have not stay the death sentence of the Lithuanian waged a systematic program of genocide against all even if world opinion showed as vehement ; of the Baltic countrys. Having lost 300,000 to reaction as it did for the condemnation of the 
Siberia alone, Lithuania's ethnic population is now Russian Jews. Hopefully, however, the world at its l 850 level. leaders of all nationalities will express their con­Mistakenly counting on the Free World's direct cern for Vytautas Samokaitis, as the slim hope of or moral support, Lithuanian Freedom Fighters world pressure is his only remaining chance. It is 
continued to fight the Communists long after the 
especially after a strong and successful protest on World War ended, killing 60,000. It was the usual 
behalf of others in exactly similar circumstances practice for captured or injured fighters, male or 
that silence in this case would mean consent to his female, to blow themselves and their captors up to murder. 
Irish tankers win two, drop one 
Sherk in the I ,000 yard medley 
victory over Northwestern. InThe Notre Dame swimming. with teammate Mike Kilpatrick three more events ND kept pil­team upped its season record t.o finishing second in the same ing up seconds and thirds. Gra·· 4-1 this past weekend with vic­event. Numerous second and ham and Ed Strack in the 200 tories over Kings College (77-36) third place finishes fell to the butterfly, Krathaus and Dougand Wayne State (61-S2) while Irish. Joe O'Connor and Brian Free in the I00 free and Bal­suffering its first defeat of the Short finished two-three in the throp and John Cleaver in the campaign in a close S 8-5 5 ver­200 free style, Gene Krathaus 200 back stroke all wound up as dict to Northwestern. and Jim Cooney did the same in runners-up.

In the meet against Kings the the SO yarder, Ed Graham and 
Sherk won anotherevent 

Irish captured first place in every John Balthrop duplicated this in when he captured the SOO yardevent except those from the the individual medley. 
swim. Swimming coach Dennis diving board. The inability of the Irish tank­
Stark pointed to "inefficient 
N D winners included John ers to get a first cost them the turns" costing precious seconds as the difference in Friday's per­formance. The Irish were involv­ed in a triangular meet on Friday as they lost to NU and beat Kings. The Irish freestyletelay squad was the clutch cog in Saturday afternoon's victory over Wayne State. Kilpatrick, Free, Krathaus and O'Connor are the members of this four­some that has been so powerful this season. Kilpatrick won the I000 yard free style. O'Connor stretched the ND lead with a first in the 200 and Krathaus did the same 
in the SO sprint. Ed Graham continued to pile up the Irish margin with a win in the 2001.M. 
Kilpatrick and Krathaus kept the pressure on the team from 

M•rdl Gr•• Is for everyone. 
Includlna the Notre~ 
Detroit with wins in the 100 and SOO respectively. 
The Irish relied heavily on their relay squad to pull the meet out in the final event and the relay squad came through
We need your supporl~·-_ 
with the clinching victory. 

Tuesday, January 26, 1971 Page7
711E OBSERfJER 
Con Spartans do it for sixth straight year 
by Terry Shields 
However, it would be hard to the Spartans in Northern Indiana son when actually they should that he thought his Irish deserv­Observer Sports Editor 
convince any Notre Dame st'l only to come away with a dismal have won with case. ed to be the Number One team Michigan State University has dents, even those that have been loss on each occasion. The first in the nation on the strength of
The Irish will be favored again 

met the University of Notre around South Bend for under­few losses were rated as toss ups their preformance against the
tonight but don't bet all of your Dame 89 times on the basketball grad and graduate work, that or even favored State before the Mardi Gras money on an Irish toughest schedule in the country. 
court. Of these numerous con­MSU is on the short end of a game. In the seasons within the win, at least not an easy win. Many may disagree with the frontations the Fighting Irish series with Notre Dame. last three years the Irish were There's something special about Irish mentor, but one thing for decided favorites each time.
have been able to win a decided For the past five seasons sure, they must be the best 94
seeing the Golden llime or look­

Dee Each time State pulled the up­team around.
majority. The slate reads 56-32 Johnny has sent his teams ing at blue and gold uniforms 
in Notre Dame's favor. to East Lansing or entertained set. In the 1968 game the Spart­that drives these Spartans to Austin Carr will be the leader ans hit Bob Arnzen and Bob for NO. It is of interest to note
unbelievable heights. 

• 
Whitmore on their poorest that Austin broke the old Field­The 1minstays for MSU are
nights of the season at Jennison house scooring record against an
Grapplers w1n, 
Randy Benjamin, a 6'2" guard

Fieldhouse. In the '69 clash MSU frosh squad led by Benjam­
averaging around 20 ppg. and

The Notre Dame wrestling ern Kentucky ahead 17-9. But MSU took advantage of a dissen­in. If Austin can set a new
Bill Kilgore a 6'7" leaper who

squad won one and tied one squad and a­
Rick Aselage put the Irish within sion racked came Convo record tonight and get
clears the boards for Coach Gus

Friday afternoon in a quad­
tying distance with a 23-2 win. way with another stunning win, some support from his team­
Ganakas. Kilgore is a deadly shotrangular meet at the Convo. NO 

ND then needed a pin to tie, and this time in the ACC. Last year mates then Johnny Dee should
inside.

tied Eastern Kentucky I7-1 7, 
Phil Gustafson did the job quick­Austin Carr & Co. went to East get his first win over a Michigan
For Notre Dame this is a must

while Taylor topped King's ly with a first period victory. Lansing again and this time they game. Dee was quoted as saying State team. It won't be easy! 22-14. 
Other winners for the Irish in­lost a close game to Ralph Simp-The Irish then defeated King's cluded Rich Eiposto, Ken Ryan,31-ll. NO was down 8-6 after and Bob Habig.
four rna tches, but Bob Bennett, 
The Notre Dame grapplers •
and Mike Kemp scored succes­
Voices from the crowd
now face Wheaton College (Ill.) 
sive pins to put ND ahead to this evening in the auxiliary gym 
stay. Rick Aselage also scored a Editor: generalizations which are select­standards a bout a National
of the Convo at 7:30p.m.
pin, and Tom Ciaccio and Ken ively valid from year to year. My Champion selected by the
For the season the Irish are
Ryan won on decisions. Heavy­Terry Shields' recent column personal opinion is that Notre present polls, or that there was
3-2-1 in dual meets. The best
weight Phil Gustafson won on entitled "Number One?" re­Dame was the best football team no Number One team in 1970.
individual records on the club
forfeit. opened some old wounds in the of the 1970 season. But the Surely Terry no longer holds this 
belong to Bob Habig (7 -1) and
In the first meet, last minute continuing controversy over a polls, which have been extreme­position either. Or would he care heroics by Rick Aselage and Phil Phil Gustafson (5-0). Gustafson "mythical" National Collegiate ly fair to Notre Dame in the to reconsider the 1966 stand­has won four of his matches by
Gustafson salvaged a tie for the F ootb aII(' ham pion. Certainly past, did not see things that way. ings? Irish. Leading 9-6, NO lost three his major point, that the "myth"
pins and he is unbeaten in 24 
Undoubtedly the debate will Sam Rumore matches in a row, sending East-matches at ND. should be eliminated by a work­never end until a playoff system 360 Dillon able playoffsystem,would 
is initiated. In essence I agree Editor's Note: Sorry Sam, prove favorable to most fans by with Terry that such a system
JIM MURRAY 
but I still can't see a team that
allowing the question of a cham­
should be established to end the 

has been beaten or tied to be
pion to be decided on the play­
controversy which seems to arise as the
picked nation's champ.
ing field. However, his opinion 
in more years than not. How­

Besides, I never said that the
of the present wire service polls 
ever, I do not agree with his 

Irish. were Number One in 1966.
was a rather hasty generalization 
sweeping generalization and rigid and, to tell the truth, sounded like the "sour grapes" testimony of a frustrated fan. No doubt the 

Greatest--­
Track team gets
polls are at best only an imper­fect indicator. But to say that 1970 had no National Champion 
and Dullest ready for Miami
is a narrow-minded point of 
© 1971, Los Angeles Times 

view. Even the Super Bowl con­
by Vic Dorr first in the two mile. Holleran'sSome years ago, after the only sudden-death playoff in NFL 
testants, supposedly the best 
time of 9:14.2 was but six se­
history, the national magazine, Sports Illustrated, posed the rhet­Observer Sportswriter 
professional teams in the world, 
conds off the best Irish two mileorical question, ·'Was This The Greatest Game Ever Played?" 
had each lost several games this Despite a long weekend of performance during the entire .. 
Now that the results are in on the 1971 Super Bowl game. the 
year. pre-season competition in Chica-1969-70 track season, and thequestion is begged, "Was This The Worst Game Ever Played'?" 
Also, Terry's standards for the go, it was business as usual yes-marks by Wohlhuter and PoselliSports fans love to deal in absolutes -most, greatest, fastest, 
teams that could be considered terday for the Notre Dame in-both eclipse the best ND perfor­worst. And, any game in which you have six interceptions, six 
National Champions was ideal­
door track team. Coach Alex mances in those events last year.
fumbles a blocked kick and 14 penalties for 164 yards, certainly istic and questionable. In addi­Wilsom had divided his squad But these were not the onlyqualifie; for the first annual NFL volleyball playoff. 
tion, I wonder how consistent he 
according to particular events, noteworthy efforts of the day.
These teams should have kept the ball in the box. 
would be with his premises. 
and was moving constantly Wilson's team produced severalBut the claque that grows daily in vehemence that this game was Terry stated: around the Convocation Center good backup performances-as it an offense against football, that it should have been removed "As things stand now, that is, fieldhouse in order to better will have to do throughout the forthwith to Van Cortlandt Park and that, by the second quarter, the 
with something as subjective as advise and supervise his athletes. season _ to back up the first Minnesota Vikings and Detroit Lions should have been escorted onto coaches and writers deciding the The ex-Olympic medalist was place finishes. Freshman Donthe field does a disservice to a grand old game. 
National Champion, the only obviously in his element as he Creehan, for instance, earned aSure, it was the "Oops!" Bowl, but I suppose the truly greatest fair way to make a final judg­circulated from group to group second in the 440. The broad game ever played in terms of fewest mistakes was the Notre ment is to pick the team that is and strove to create order out jump/triple jump duo of KevinDame-Army contest of 1946. Army still had Glenn Davis and Doc unbeaten and untied. If there is of the normal chaos of a Mon-McAuliffe and Mike McMannonBlanchard and Notre Dame had a field full of guys returning from no major college team in this day afternoon track practice. finished very well, and hurdlerthe war ~ho were as grizzled as pros. The game ended 0-0, and, if category theresimplyisno Wilson was working to prepare Joe Utz also turned in a first rate you consider that exciting, please leave the room. 
National Champ." his team for its first dual meet -effort. 
1 guess, by common consent, the poorest World Series ever played 
It would be interesting to sec 
whichwillbeheldSaturday "I thought we were par for 
was the 1945 tournament between the Detroit Tigers and the 
if Terry would defend his posi­
afternoon in the Convocation the course," said Wilson, as heChicago Cubs. The teams took the field with a gang of 4F's-­
tion if he had to consider the 
Center fieldhouse against Miami evaluated the Chicagoland meet.
militarily un'rit humans--or a corps of corpulent returning staff 
"N u m her 0 ne" controversy of 
of Ohio. "I can't say that anyone reallysergeants who hadn't had time to sweat the PX beer out of their 
only four years ago. In 1966 
The team took a large step surprised me, although it's hardsystems yet. There wasn't a guy on either team who could beat out 
Notre Dame won both wire ser­
toward its goal of preparedness for anyone to be a surprise in an inside-the-park single. One game lasted 3 hours and 28 minutes as the
vice polls Number One 
last Saturday, when the Irish track, because we're measuringand 94 guys went to bat, a record. Fifty-one players got in the 
team in the country. However, trackmen ran in the I7th Annual and timing these kids every day. 
seven-game series, also a record. Notre Dame had tied one game. 
University of Chicago Invitation-No, I'd have to say that theySixty-one runs were scored and the contest seemed to bear out 
Thus, the Irish should have been 
al. performed about as I had ex-the deathless observation of the betting commissioner who was 
eliminated from consideration as 
"This meet was mainly for the pected. Now take Creehan. Weasked who was favored and noted, "I don't see how either one of 
National Champion. According 
kids," said Wilson. "There were expected him to finish where he them can win it." The point was, it was just as exciting a Series as 
to Terry's standards, Alabama no scores kept -as such -and did. 
any other and probably a great deal more than any Yankee Serie~ o.f 
would have been, as Terry says, nearly anyone could enter." AI-"But we weren't really con­that era. Anybody who liked Yankee World Series had to be sadistic 
"Numero Uno." Alabama won tho ugh there were no team cerned about it (the Chicagolandor in a helluva hurry. 
all ten of its regular season scores kept, individual perfor-meet). After all, our seriousWhich brings me to what was probably the worst fight of all time. 
games in 1966, "producing on mances were tabulated, and Wil-competition starts Saturday, andCan you guess? Why, Dempsey-Firpo! You heard me. Compared to every given opportunity." Then, son had good reason to feel that's what we're trying to getTunney-li!eney, Sharkey-Schmeling, Baer-Braddock, it was a fiasco. 
as the "mark of a true cham­pleased at the showings of sever-.-•• ready for."
If Dempsey hadn't made a bigger mistake than a guy ordering st~w pion" they played the "strongest al of the Notre Dame runners. Because of the unusually large in a hoarding house full of cats, the fight would rank w1th 
opponent they could find" (N e­The Irish won threeevents?ut-numberofcontestants,the
Patterson-Rademacher. 
braska) and beat them decisive­right, and placed very well m a Notre Dame runners did notExcellence is no guarantee of excitement. If nonchalant per­ly. Thus, being the only unde­number of others. Highly touted enter every event -the Irishfection is your bag, go watch the 1962 Green Bay-Giants playoff. 
feated-untied team, Alabama Rick Wohlhuter began his season elected to forego the low hurdlesThirty-seven to zero was the score of that one. If you don't like to ( 11-0) deserved the N urn her 0 ne with an encouraging note by and the mile relay -but it 
see teams make mistakes, pick up on one of those Oregon ranking. INeedless to say, am winning the 880 with a time of probably doesn't matter. It's stillState-UCLA games where they punt on second down all day. 
sure that Terry did not wish to I :52.5. Elio Poselli capturedSo it's not whether you won or lost, it's how you misplayed the imply that position. first place in the shot with a a good bet that Coach Wilsongame: So get in there, gang, and DROP THAT BALL! LOUSE THAT The point I am stressing is throw of 45 feet, eight inches, will have his squad ready when
PASS! FUMBLE THAT KICK! CLIP THAT REFEREE! All together and junior Pat Holleran finished
that it is wrong to make hasty 
they meet Miami this Saturday.
now, let's hear it · MESS UP! 
Page 8 THE QBS£Rf/£R. Tuesday, January 26, 1971 
~~~----------------------------------------~--~--~----------------------­
The sex education team of Dr. and Mrs. J. C. Willke will speak tonight in the Library Auditori­um on the subject "Abortion: Social and Medical Aspects."
• 
During the lecture, which begins at 8 p.m., the Willkes will show a 9-minute film showing an actual suction-type abortion of a wo­man two and one half months pregnant. According to the two educators, the film is "very ex­plicit, specific, and used for teaching in medical schools." 
In addition to the film and the lecture, the Willkes will be available for a question and ans­
.. 

wer session at the end of their presentation. 
The talk is presented by the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Aca­demic Cbnnission and -admis­sion is free. The Willkes have written four books and numer­ous articles for periodicals on sex education and related sub­jects. Every year they devote several days to a tour across the country, speaking to groups on the subjects of family life and sexuality. In an average year they will speak to over 50,000 people in over 40 major cities and appear on almost 100 radio and TV shows. 
City Council defeats annexation 
(continued from page I) 
tial purposes but then admitted that he was not advocating tax­ing Notre Dame and he realized that no new housing starts could be built on campus. This ap­parent contradiction was never explained by either him or any city representative. 
Edmund 9-epan, Chairman of the Notre Dame Board of­Trustees, led off the University's presentation in counter to the city's arguments, and expressed the school's primary fear that annexation would lead in the future to the city violating their tax exempt status. 
City officials repeatedly said last night that the city has no intention of threatening the uni­versity's tax exempt status and never will have this intention. Every university spokesman stressed that it is not possible to fore cast the intentions of the City Council even a few years. ahead. 
Stephan said that private edu­cational institutions depend for existence on contributions from alumni and friends and any new 
Bella receives first Business Teacher Award 
The students of the Business College have selected Mr. Salva­tore Bella as the first recipient of their new Business Students' Teacher Award. The award will be presented at a business meet­ing later this semester. 
The award was suggested by the· Students' Business College Council. They distributed stan­dardized forms to each business class. The form asked each stu­dent to rank professors as excel­lent, good, average or poor in regard to eleven aspects of teach­ing. Some of the categories in­eluded: knowledge of subject matter, ability in stimulating the desire to learn, tolerance to disa­greement and ability to evaluate student performance. The com­bined scores for each professor were graded by dividing by the number of students taught, so as to prevent professors with large classes from having an advan­tage. 
The Business College plans to award this honor each semester. The professor with the highest average will be given a trophy and have his name engraved on a plaque which will be permanent­ly erected in the lobby of the Hayes-Healy Building. The pro­fessor placing second will receive a special mention, and the teach­er in third position will receive an honorable mention. 

VISIT OUR RECORD DISPLAY FOR YOUR FAVORITE RECORD ALBUMS. 
WE HAVE A LARGE SELECTION OF POPULAR VOCAL GROUPS MALE VOCAL INSTRUMENTAL COUNTRY WESTERN 
JAZZ 
RELIGIOUS & MANY OTHER CATAGORIES. 
THE HAMMES. NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
••kt & il:1 t'l ·.-.J ~· -... ,. · •••·• i:n; • r• IJ'IIW)'tt•..,... ~­
expenses, especially during times future annexation north of the of financial crisis like the pre­city, and financially harmful to sent, would add a very heavy the city. burden. 
Stephan and other university Most of the three hundred officials echoed the same argu­citizens in attendance were sup­ments against annexation that porting Notre Dame. Each one have been presented in the past; who spoke against annexation fear of losing tax-exempt status, mentioned his love for Notre harmful to the town and town Dame and the deep gratitude he 
relationship, not necessary for feels toward the school. 
Joyce refutes Mayor Allen 
(continued from page 1) 
chairman of the Civil Rights Commission. Mullins said the students would pay more atten­tion to the inner city problems if they were adequately informed. After those in favor of the ordinances had spoken, the microphone was turned over to Rev. Edmund P.Joycewho 
went on to present official ar­guments against annexation for the three schools. 
The floor was returned to the public after Joyce had spoken so that those against the issue could express their opinions. Paul Gil­bert of Gilbert's Mens 9-ores and Frank Sullivan, a well known area architect were among those who addressed the council. Al­though they were part of the University's program they said they were also speaking as citi­zens of South Bend. 
Gilbert charged the city is taking Notre Dame and St. Mary's "for granted" He cited the Lobund Laboratory where the cure for cancer may be found someday and the dis­covery of synthetic rubber as two major contributions for which nothing has been asked in return. He refuted arguments that the city's economy is dying by adding that bank deposits, and the South Bend Tribunes' circulation are at all time highs and also the new high rises erec­ted in recent years. Gilbert con­
•eluded saying that Notre Dame has brought "more prestige, more honor and more glory" to the city than any other institu­
tion. 
Sullivan expressed his loyalty to South Bend and said he did not rule out the possibility of 
annexation in the future. How­ever, he believes that this is not the right time for the move and urged the council members to vote down the ordinance. 
The main concern expressed by Sullivan was over the issue of the University tax exempt sta­tus. He said he believed Mayor Lloyd M. Allen's statement that no taxes would be assesed and Allen's statement that he would not run for reelection. Sullivan then wondered what would hap­pen to Allen's no tax promise when the next mayor takes of­fice and says, "I don't care about those promises, we need ... " 

lniuries fatal 
(Continued from page 1) 

Arthur Pears, security director. 
A theft in the student parking lot D-2 resulted in heavv losses for one student. The list of missing items includes a tape player, ten tapes, a health kit and a tachometer. 
Another car, which had been illegally parked near the Memo­rial Library, was subject to dam­age. The exact nature and extent of this damage was undetermin­ed. 
A student report of a Rose­land police car on campus over the weekend was confirmed by the security chief. Mr. Pears ex­plained that thepolicehad assisted Notre Dame security in apprehending a drunken man who had run the main gate. He noted that the man was not a Notre Dame student. 
Another student sent a packet to the security office on Monday morning which contained a doz­
•en tickets collected off wind~­shields in fhe parking areas. "If this anonymous person considered his act as a great assistance to the students, he was definitely wrong," said Pears. The director indicated that the students who received these tickets will still be respon­sible for paying them, which will cause problems since they are unaware that they were ticketed. It will also deny the unknowing students a chance to appeal the tickets. Mr. Pears was unsure as 
to a solution to this problem. 
Don't bother your roommate 
wit, it. 

Bother uL We e•n clo somethlna. 
The Ombudsman Service 
7638
of student government 



