
Coldl'r; cloudy with a slight c:ham:l' of dry. llayh•ver indl'x down to 0 


serving the notre dame-st. mary's community
' Vol. VI, No. 46 Monday, November 15, 1971 
Geoffrey protests ND hiring practices Requests action by Dept. of Labor 
nation enters new state of program 
Cost of Living. Council to convene 
•
Issues unsettled in ne-w econont1c progrant 
by Don Ruane 
Observer Campus News Editor 
Dr. Syed J. Iqbal Geoffrey has requested im­mediate action by the Department of Labor to make Notre Dame comply with laws prohibiting discriminatory hiring practices. 
Geoffrey, a visiting professor at St. Mary's in 1967, also has filed two complaints with the South Bend Human Relations and Fair Practices Com­mission , one against St. Mary's in May, 1971 and one against Notre Dame last month in addition to his Nov. 4 letter to the Labor Department "regarding racist personnel PRACTICES (Geof­frey's emphasis) at Notre Dame University." 
Geoffrey wrote the Labor Department that he has been regularly contacting University President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh since 1967 to renew his application for an administrative or executive post and remind "Mr. Hesburgh" of his (Geoffrey's) interest. 
The University has returned "wishy-washy acknowledgements -only recently," the Pakistan native claims. 
Adding that Notre Dame has never employed a Black in an administrative position of management level, the Muslim Black claims that ND Personnel Director Joseph O'Brien has "confirmed that I was never considered for any one of the several vacancies which have occurred since 1967 and for which I am eminently qualified." 
O'Brien, whose office handles mostly staff and 
non-academic placements, said Sunday that the 
statement is false. He added that Geoffrey first 
came to the Personnel Office about July 26, 1971 and 
requested a faculty or academic position "not in 
my province." 
Geoffrey then listed a number of jobs such as 
assistant dean, dean or ombudsman, and some that 
were under the Personnel Department, according to 
O'Brien. 
O'Brien said he has not hired anyone in the areas . or salary range Geoffrey requested since Geoffrey first appeared in the personnel director's office. Last May, Geoffrey threatened to sue St. Mary's 
I 
Dr. Syed J. lqblil Geoffrey 
because of "discriminatory hiring practices and for not giving consideration to his application for president, allegedly because of his race and creed." At the time he said he could produce "circumstancial evidence." 
He reiterated this in his formal complaint against Notre Dame to the Labor Department, "I feel (and shall prove) that I was not considered because of my race and national origin AND (Geoffrey's emphasis) appointees at ND during the last 4 years were less qualified, less deserving but belonged invariably to more fashionable races." 
In the October complaint with the South Bend , Human Relations and Fair Practices Commission Geoffrey claimed he has suffered "damages and humiliation" in excess of $10 million at the hands of Notre Dame and Fr. Hesburgh. 
Philip Faccenda, vice president and general counsel for Notre Dame, said Sunday that the University has not been notified of either complaint, and has not been named in any law suit. 
Geoffrey, who in his complaint to the Labor Department, reports threats that Fr. Hesburgh will try to have him deported because of his criticisms of Notre Dame, considers himself "well-qualified" for the positions he is seeking. He lists his qualifications as author, qualified accountant, art historian, published poet, economist, management consultant, holder of the equivalent of three doctor's degrees and nomination as a distinguished professor while at St. Mary's from September, 1967 until June 1968. 
by David E. Rosenbaum (c:) 1971 New York Times 
Washington, Nov. 14--The nation entered a new state of President Nixon's economic program today with several crucial wage and price issues still unsettled. The Cost of Living Council plans to meet tomorrow to decide whether the automobile industry and other large compaoies that must pay wage increases in the next seven weeks should have to get permission from the price commission before they raise their prices to meet the additional costs. 
Officials from the automobile companies who called the price commission for guidance on whether they could put higher prices on new cars beginning tomorrow morning were told that they could but that increased prices would probably have to be rolled back, at least for 72 hours. 
discuss lost wages 
The pay board, the other agency in the three-part controls machinery, has scheduled a Tuesday meeting to discuss whether teachers can get back pay for the wages they lost during the 90-day freeze, and whether the 40 per cent pay increase granted to 100,000 coal miners just before the freeze ended last night should be allowed to go into effect. 
After last week's frenetic activity, the rirst day of the post-freeze economy seemed like the calm in the eye of a storm. 
George H. Boldt, chairman of the Pay Board, and C. Jackson Grayson Jr., chairman of the price commission, were interviewed on the Columbia Broadcasting System's program, Face the Nation, but they enunciated no new policies.' 
The lights were on in the building at 2000 
M Street N.W. from early this morning 
until late tonight as staff members of the 
pay board and the price commission 
worked over their regulations. 

But both agencies delayed any an­
nouncements until tomorrow. 

There were indications today that Donald 
Rumsfeld, the director of the cost of Living Council, agreed with the price commission that the automobile industry should not be allowed to raise its prices without ap­proval from the commission. 
On Friday, the council issued a ruling 
stating that companies that had wage 
increases due before the end of the year 
could raise their prices to meet the cost of 
the pay raises without first notifying the 
price commission. Even if the companies 
were in the category that required pre­
notification of all price increases. 

The automobile companies were the main beneficiaries of this ruling, since tkey have raises under a standing contract of about 6 per cent that must be paid late this month and in early December. 
Last night, the price commission issued a statement saying that it had asked the Cost ofLiving Council to rescind its ruling. 
Today, spokesmen for the two agencies said that the original directive of the Cost of Living Council had been prepared in haste and that Rumsfeld agreed that it should be turned around. 
These spokesmen said that Rumsfeld had a hand in drafting a compromise under which the price commission would notify companies like the automobile manufacturers within 72 hours whether their price increases were acceptable. . 
The most significant indication tomorrow of economic trends may come not in Washington but on the counters of retail stores across the country. 
The price commission has given these stores permission to raise their prices immediately to meet expected increases in costs. The size and nature of these price rises may give the first hint of the ef­fectiveness of this new phase of the economic controls program. 
Grayson confident 

In the television interview today, 
Grayson said he was confident that the 
controls would work. He said that com­
petition among businesses and voluntary 
compliance by businessmen would work 
together to hold prices down. 

On the same program, Boldt acknowledged that the question of teachers' raises was "a very complicated and extraordinary one" and would be one of the first matters the pay board con­siders Tuesday. 
The pay board has declared that, as a general rule, workers cannot receive retroactive pay for raises that were supposed to go into effect during the freeze. But the board said that exceptions would be made in unusual circumstances, including the cases where prices were increased before the freeze to meet raises that were to occur between Aug. 15 and Nov. 13. 
Boldt said that, if ti could be proved that a community raised its taxes before the freeze,_ in part to pay higher salaries to teachers, this fact would carry "a great deal of weight" when the board was deciding whether that community's teachers should be allowed to h11.ve their back pay. 
The settlement in the soft-coal industry last night---a package increase of ap­proximately 39 per cent over three years-­exemplifies another unsettled question concerning permissible wage increases. 
· The pay board has ruled that contracts made after the freeze ended should hold wage increases to 5.5 per cent. Raises under contracts settled before the fr~ze may, for the most part, be paid, even if they exceed _5.5 per cent, the bo~rd 1 declared. But tt has left open the question of contracts reached during the freeze. 

J>rf'sident Nixon Page 2 THE OBSERVER. Monday, November 15, 197) 

Senate views newconstitu tion this week 

John Barkett. 
by Ann McCarry Student Governments from Notre Dame and St. Mary's will present a proposal that would unify ND and SMC student governments by the spring elections to the ND Senate Constitutional Committee this week, according to Student Body President John ~arkett. The proposal, which the ND-SMC Constitutional Revision Com­mittee drew up over the past 



Demonstrators protest 
Red China in UN 
<c> 1971 New York Times New York, Nov. 14--Several hundred shouting, singing demonstrators burned a Red Chinese flag and repeatedly broke through police barriers today across East 45th Street from the Roosevelt Hotel, where the delegation from the People's Republic of China prepared to appear at the United Nations Monday. Waving Nationalist Chinese flags, the protestors chanted slogans in Chinese calling upon Chiao Kuan-Hua and Huang Hua, leaders of the delegation, to "defect now!" and "be free­come to our side." As fist -waving cheerleaders harangued them through bullhorns, they screamed "kill Mao Tse-Tung," "long live Chiang Kai-Shek" and 
"red spies out now." The noise of the demonstration month, must pass through both school's legislative structures before it can be effected. 
brought  six  members  of  the  
Peking  ·  from  their  
14thfloor  to the 45th  

The proposal, if accepted, woula1 place all of Student Government's functions in the hands of a nine-man committee which would be comprised of the Student Body President_ and Vice­President, the Hall President's Council Chairman, and six representatives elected from districts in the two campuses. Barring unforseen delays, the Senate will vote on the proposal before Christmas of this year. 
A proposal to temporarily unify the two governemnts until a new constitution comes into effect is still being written by a sub­committee of the SMC student assembly. 
To be accepted, both proposals will need a two-thirds affirmation from the ND Senate and the St. Mary's Student Assembly. 
Barkett announced that he "fully supports" the plan."It's a good idea," he said in an in­terview last night. "We're going to be one school eventually and 
street entrance of the hotel. All were calm but unsmiling. Three stepped out onto the sidewalk, where one took pic-
were accompanied by a New York police plainclothesman. Earlier Miss Wang Hai-Jung and two security men from the delegation came to watch through the doors but did not go outside. 
There were no other special security arrangements as the two groups walked through the lobby. They were watched casually if at all by hotel guests-predominantly delegates to a convention of the Professional Dancing Teachers of America, many of them leading swarms of little girl pupils in leotards. 
Several hours earlier, Deputy Prime Minister Chiao and Am­bassador Huang, the represen­tative to the U.N., ~ade the delegation's only foray of the day ourside the hotel. 
we ought to take the lead in merging the two governments. The merger might be slowed down because of financial problems and that could slow us down, too. If not, the spring elections will select one student body president and one student body vice-president. We'll hav·e one student government for one student body." 
Saint Mary's student body president Kathy Barlow, also feels that the merger of the two governments is a good idea. "With the merger of the schools and the governments we also have an opportunity to look at student government and decide not only how to make it better, but ask ourselves 'Why do we want it?' 
"First, the · needs of the 
students should be assessed," Miss Barlow contended. ~'It should then be decided how these needs can best be met by student government. We're im­plementing a new structure that will possibly last for some time. Therefore, we ought to make sure that it has a philosophically strong, underlying base." 
"I think that the new govern­ment should be as simple as possible," Barkett remarked. "It should be a government that's representative and can easily respond to the students. It should Kathy Barlow also be able to be reached easily ..--------------. by the students. 

CALIFORNIANS 
"I agree with the proposal that has been drawn up and I hope 
X-Mas RT Flightthat it will be passed quickly so 
LA or SF $118 
that we can swiftly move ahead 
7-8 Mon. 15th-Wed. 17th 
with one student government." 
Tony 7865 -Rick 1753 

for you: later, if you want to. 
ratings). 
The loudspeakers 
elliptical cartridge. dust cover, ready to go. 
324.95. 
trade-in value, in writing. gets you started. 


world briefs 
(c) 1971 New York ·Times 
Chuquicamata, Chile -Premier Fidel Castro of Cuba toured the world's largest open pit copper mine, in Chuquicamata, Chile. Mine workers at the government-owned pit have voted overwhelmingly in favor of a larger wage increase than the left-wing government has offered and have elected labor representatives opposed to the government. 
New York -Widespread student protests and a disruption of education similar to those that took place after the Cambodia invasion and the shootings at Kent State University could easily recur if there is another "calculated governmental action, or more tragically, an unintended consequence of (such) an action" on a campus, a Carnegie Commisison on Higher Education report warned. 
New York-Sen EdmundS. Muskie, talking about Vietnam, Social Security, Politics and Mayor John Lindsay before an audience in the Bronx, was interrupted by three men shouting about "British atrocities in Ireland." 

4:00--talk, john montague, irish poetry, carroll hall 

4:30--colloquium, dr. martin blume, magnetism in one dimension, 265 chemical engineering building 
ts 
en 7:00 & 9: 00--film, sign of the Q..::s virgin, engineering I auditorium rn
0. a 7: 30--lecture, sister mary B alma peter, people of n
ts 
notre dame series,
u 
carroll hall 
c 
8:00--lecture, john mon­0 tague, library auditorium 
Monday, November 15, 1971 

by Thomas A. Johnson considered hostile, such as stores nt>ws analysis normally frequented by hostile Whites.
<cl 1!171 Nl'w York Times --according to a Black elections 
Jackson, Miss., Nov. 14--A commissioner, Mrs. Flonzie number of Black Mississippians Goodloe of Madison County are saying that violence, "more than 20 per cent of th~ 
harassment, intimidation and recently registered Black voters 
theft caused 244 of 284 Black in some counties were assigned to candidates to lose in their at­the wrong precincts." tempts to win elective offices in --and whether real or imagined, the Nov. 2 general elections. A several rural Blacks said they 
number of Whites contend f~ared economic reprisals if they howPver, that many thousands of did not vote the way their em­
ployers told them.
"silent" Black voters preferred White leadership and rejected "There were many stolen 
Black militancy and the very votes," said the Rev. Harry J. idea of nonwhites in non­Bowie Jr., of the Delta ministry traditional roles. "but it's too easy to say 'they 
There is evidence here that 
stole it."' A defeated candidate each of these reasons contributed 
for the state senate in McComb to the lopsided final figures in a Bowie was one of several Black~ number of predominantly Black here who insisted that "Black 
areas where Black candidates politics in Mississippi must lost. The degree to which these change from the style of mass reasons affected the vote is the protest or the church meeting to 
heart of the controversy, that of the house-to-house however. politicization." ThPre were a number of in­cidents of violence, harassment 
blacks unite
and intimidation against out-of­state poll watchers as well as against some Black voters, ac­Political participation is cording to a growing list of sworn relatively new to Bla"k affidavits and statements by Mississippians who had 28 000 F<'deral observers and registered voters before 'the <'Xaminers. ~oting rights act of 1965 helped to 
Oth<'r factors that affected the mcrease the number of Negro vote included the following: registrants to 335,000. White 
---many rural workers have registration is more than 700,000. said they were not allowed to take In the week following the the time to vot<' before the 6 p.m. election, much of Mississippi's dPadline. Black leadership is talking about 
--polling places were often strengthening the Black political placed in locations that Negroes organizations, solidifying 250,000 
Mariner 9 sends back first TV pix of Mars 

Blacks charge intim.idation in "Mississippi elections 
Blacks who are eligible but who Delta stated: "I took a White in Black areas, an act hardlydo not vote. man's money and I turned right conceivable during the days of Larry Rand, director of the around and told my folks to vote the poll taxes before Blacks Atlanta-based Voter Education for the Black folks running. But I began running in large numbers 
Project for Mississippi, said in suppose some of us took his for political offices. his Tougaloo College office, "all money and did a job of work for that's needed to register them is 
him." · A white woman candidate,organizers and money." 
addressing a Black audience in a Money was also said to have heavily Black delta county, said: been the reason some Blacks campaigns helped voted for Whites, the fear of "White people call me aeconomic reprisals as well as In addition, some White can­Nigger-lover for asking for yourcash payments to some Black didates received votes from help. If that's the case, that's just leaders. Blacks because a number of what I am, a Nigger-lover." SheA Black religious leader in the White office seekers campaigned got a standing ovation. 


E OBSERVER 
Sen•inx the Notre Dame and Saint Marl' 's Collexc Communizv 
Monday, November 15, 1971
Pa e 3 

Cocaine: Re-emerging trend 
year 1969: 478 pounds in 1970 and 
the New York Times that cocame<cl 1!171 New York Times 751 pounds in the year just ended. 

use is on the rise even though the 

Foreign seizures in which the 
drug is expensive. Today it isWashington, Nov. 14 --Cocaine bureau cooperated rose from 20 sometimes called an "icingLil, whose ballad hasn't been pounds to 261 in the same period. 

drug" --a lux~ry -or even theheard much during the last 40 Part of this is certainly a result "rich hippie's drug." 

years, seems to be making a of increased effort by law en­
comeback. 
forcement agencies, but a At a recent conference on drug
The song said "Lil went to a spokesman for the Bureau said abuse sponsored by Stanford
'snow' party one cold night and there was also other evidence University, Dr. David E. Smith,the way she sniffed was sure a that the drug is coming back. director of the Haight-Ashburyfright." At the end she was under 
"We are finding more and Free Medical Clinic in San a headstone bearing the words, more of it on the street," said Francisco, said the use of cocaine
"she died as she lived, sniffing John Finlator, deputy director of had increased more in the lastcocaine." the Bureau, during a recent in­year than any other drug. HeUntil a few years ago drug terview. As recently as three predicted a wave of cocaine experts thought the habit had years ago there was little or none abuse if the producers could 
been almost as thoroughly buried of it, he said. 
bring the cost down. Dr. Smith as its fictional heroine and was as This is also the message from said the current price was about little remembered as the song. some major college campuses $10 "a hit". A report from
Today the song is still a novice from coast to coast. Cambridge, Mass., put the eastfrom the past, but the drug seems Correspondents at nine of them, 
coast price a little lower --about to be coming back rapidly. from a sample of 11, reported to $6 to $7 a dose. 
(Continued on pase 5)

trends shifting 

Government officials and others say the re-emergence of cocaine is one of the new clear trends in the shifting and often murky picture of drug use in the United States. 
The other obvious trends are the continuing popularity of marijuana --and of tobacco and alcohol, two drugs that most Americans seldom regard as drugs at all. 
The trend in cocaine is reflected in government figures. The justice department's Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs seized or otherwise acquired 370 pounds of the white crystalline powder in the fiscal 
by John Noble Wilford lcl 1!171 New York Times 

Pasadt•na, Calif., Nov. 14-­Mariner 9 began its recon­naissance of Mars today with the return of the first television pictures taken from an orbit of the mysterious planet. 
Scientists here said that they were now able to distinguish some apparent Martian features, however faint and blurred, beneath the dust that has en­veloped the planet for the last seven weeks. But the scientists said it was too early to make any positive identifications or draw any conclusions. 
The American spacecraft, the first ever to orbit another planet, was reported to be "in perfect health" and following such an accurate course that only a minor correction will be necessary before it settles down for its planned three-month mission to map and study Mars. 
Mariner 9 is circling Mars twice a day, crossing its equator at a fl'l-degree angle and swinging to a low altitude of 868 miles and out as far as 11,135 miles on each orbit. It makes a complete circle of the planet every 12 hours and :M minutes. 
Mariner's orbit is scheduled to be "trimmed" with a short rocket firing tomorrow night, Daniel Schneiderman, the project manager said at a news con­ference here at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. 
The new orbital path would reduce Mariner's travel time to about 12 hours for each complete orbit. The primary purpose of the correction Schneiderman said is to "maximize data tran­smission" from the spacecraft to the tracking station in the Mojave Desert. 

everything A-OK 
As Mariner radioed pictures taken by its two cameras, it also began sending data indicating that its three remote-sensing scientific instruments were working properly. The in­struments are designed to study the planet's surface composition and temperatures and at­mospheric chemistry. 
/ 


Monday, November 15, '1971


Page 4 THE OBSERVER 
ASG will back voter's conference 
by Michael Baum 

David Johnson announced last night in Chicago plans for a national "Emergency Con­ference for New Voters," to be held one month from now. Johnson, who is a vice president of the Association of Student Governments (ASG) located in Washington, will be here briefly to begin organization of groups from Notre Dame and St. Mary's College to attend the conference. 
The conference, sponsored by the ASG, will be held at Loyola University in Chicago on December 4, 5, and 6. Johnson said he expects attendance on the order of 1500 or more people. 
The ASG according to Johnson hopes to draw atudents from all over the country to the con­ference, to respond to what they he said is a continuing "systematic attempt to exclude young people who happen to be to 
the left of Henry Jackson from the democratic nominating process," in the words of Mr. Johnson. 
The conference is scheduled to 
be bipartisan and unaffiliated but is expected concentrate mostly upon the Democratic Party nominations, due to generally expressed "inability" to affect the Republican Party. 
Johnson cited three basic goals of the Conference: first to "play a game with the national press" in order to convey the idea of legitimate political power in the hands of students, secondly to inform students about the nomination proceedures for each individual state and help these students to win delegates to the national Democratic convention. Johnson remarked, "There are about four different models in terms of delegate selection processes that almost every state in the union falls into ... and of these four models we will be able to plug every one into the model they belong to." 
The third goal, Johnson said, is to set up a national network designed to coordinate students elected as convention delegates into an organized bloc for the national convention. This does not, according to Johnson, require adhrence to any par­ticular candidate, "We're not saying that you have to sign a loyalty oath to be part of the caucus or anything, we're working with McGovern people, Muskie people, we're working with all those people." 
Johnson noted that local organization will be important, "There are obviously some places will it work much better than in other places. We've already begun in Oklahoma, we're in literal control of about 25 precincts in Oklahoma which means we already have about 3 and a half delegates." The conference he says, hopes to obtain about 300 delegates out of more than 2000. 
The idea for the conference started with a bi-partisan voter registration drive sponsored by the ASG in a number of states. Said Johnson, "As the time came to have the national bipartisan voter registration conference, we looked around and some of the things that both of the parties were doing with young people made us decide that rather than have a bipartisan voter 
•


us econont1cs rile Canada 
by Jay Walz 
(c) 1971 New York Times 

Ottawa, Nov. 14 -The unease that has afflicted Canadian life and politics since President Nixon's New Economic Program was inaugurated three months ago, was aroused anew last week by the first snow of the year and the publication of a mixed report on inflation and unemployment. 
Freezing weather on top of rising prices and growing joblessness creates problems making it imperative that the government press Washington for new assurances that the 10 Canadian industry? Nixon's 90­day period ended this weekend. 
In recent statements and in­terviews, Trudeau has pointed out how hard it is to create new jobs for Canadians if the U.S. perpetuates measures designed to guarantee a favorable trend for itself, in its trading with Canada. 
Favorable trade balances are required for . job-creating economic growth in Canada as well as anywhere else. 
Several times recently Trudeau has complained that he finds it hard to "read" the trend of U .'S. policies relating to Canada. 
measures to U.S. economic policies that are hurting Canadian trade. The full extent of American programs, the Prime Minister contends, is yet not clear. 
It remains to be seen how long Trudeau's argument can prevail 
against  opposition  forces  bat­ 
tering  him  on  inflation  and  
unemployment grounds.  
0 20 exp. Black & While US 1.55 • 0 ~~~ ~nn~l~i~lng-rolls of film and payment (plus 0 20 exp. Slides or 8 mm Movies 1.41 1.22 • 


Tomorrow, the Prime Minister and 10 provincial premiers will meet htre for a special economic conference. They will discuss the challenges of unemployment, inflation and the recent U.S. economic blows. 
registration conference what we ought to have instead is an emergency conference for new voters." John contended that the Democrats recent choice of Patricia Harris as temporary chairman of the credentials committee as a cause for alarm. The choice, Johnson said, reflected "opposition" to the McGovern recommendations to the Democratic party. ('These recommendations include minimum numbers of young and black delegates from each state.) 
Johnson is hopeful that the conference will be able to exert a "real influence" on the Democratic National Convention. 
The ASG conference has the support of the Black Political Caucus, the Women.s Political Caucus, the SCLC, NAACP, Student Vote, the Youth Fran­
·---·-·


--······ ..-.--------------­
1/2 PRICE COLOR PRINTS? 
SAVE ON SLIDES -MOVIES -B&WPRINTS, TOO 
This low price saves you up to 50% over usual "drug store" prices, rushes high quality color prints back to your door in just a few days. Try the film service used on many mid-west and southern campuses. 
SO EASY SO CONVENIENT ... just use your own envelope and the coupon below. Fill in name and address, write name on roll or cartridge, enclose coupon and remittance. Or, use the coupon to get film mailers and dis· count coupons; order film and flashes at low prices ... a better deal. than "free" film. Savings and processing quality guaranteed. 
: YOUR ORDER MUST INCLUDE THIS COUPON­
.. 
• 
• Name______ • 
• Address__________________ ••e City____ State______lip__ •
• 
e 0 Send me free film mailer envelope and discount lq. rr1c1 n• '" e 
• coupon 0 12 exp. Black & While 1.2'1 .19 e 
e 0 Send me fresh Kodacolor film and/ or flashes • 0 1 am encklsing an extra 25¢ per roll for express Circle your size: llimit two) . . . . . 88¢ each • 
• handling and !ICsl-dm mail return lnstamatic 126-12-127-120-620 Rei. Price Yeu Par Circle your flash: IIimit two sleeves) . . 88( each •
• 

e 0 12 exp. Kodacolor $2.99 $2.33 Cubes-AG-1-M-2-M-3 , • 
• 0 20 exp. Kodacolor 4.49 3.55 Magicubes .. $1.19 each e 
• 
MAIL TO: SPE-0-PICS • Box 299 · Cincinnati, Ohio 45214 • Dept. N D •
... . . . . .. . .. . ....... . -. . --. 
chise Coalition and several others. Said Johnson, "The primaries are going to be less important in '72 than they have been in any presidential year in the past. Muskie has been the front runner for two years now as far as the nomination is con­cerned, and he cannot,·as far as we can see, walk in the front door of the convention with the nomination. 
"You get the situation where 300 votes becomes a fantastically powerful club which if wielded properly, employing those convention dynamics and tactics than I think that we'll have at our disposal at that time will be very powerful." 
The conference will be free, with no registration fee and no housing fee, and food provided accroding to Johnson at minimal cost. It is being financed by ASG. 
per cent surcharge on United States imports is what it started out to be -a temporary measure. 
The feathery layer of snow covering Ottawa over the weekend was not as bad as might be expected in mid-November, but Ottawans know from ex­perience they probably won't see the ground again until next May. 
Similarly, the new set of in­flation and employment figures were not bad when compared with recent statistics, but with winter just ahead, they forbode little good for the welfare and comfort of thousands of Canadians. 
The Consumer Price Index was up to 134.9 in October from 134.7 in September, (the index states the percentage changes in prices since the base year 1961). The October rise, while small, was a warning that serious inflation is still a part of Canadian life. 
The number of Canadian 
unemployed rose to 447,000 in 
October, 13,000 more than the 
month before.. The number of 
persons with jobs rose, too -by 
63,000, from 8.188 million to 8.251 
million. It was the biggest Oc­
tober gain in many years, usually 
jobs diminish in October as 
winter approaches. 

The trouble is that unem­
ployment rose because the labor 
force (nowtotaling 8,698 million) 
continues to grow faster than the 
job opportunities. 

This is the crux of the Prime 
Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau's 
problem in coping with the 
"uncert-ainties" of the new U.S. 
economic program. 

Will the 10 per cent surcharge, 
which appeared at first to be only 
a 90-day measure, remain in 
effect through the long winter 
which sets back so much 
This week on a meet-the­people swing through one of : Canada's most troubled areas -' normally part of the prosperous industrial triangle of Ontario ­Toronto -Windsor-Niagara Falls -Trudeau emphasized that Anti­Americanism is not the waq for Canada to get out of its troubled times. 
In sum, he has said it is too early for the Canadian govern­
ment to put forward counter-
Budgets will stay separate 
by Michele Arrich 
Unified billing of ND and SMC 
will not go into effect next year, 
according to Mr. Jason Lin­
dewer, Director of Financial 
Management at SMC and will 
not be organized until complete 
unification of the two schools is completed. · 
"Once the problems of 
unification are worked out, the combining of budgets will be resolved also," Lindewer said. Until that time, the billings will remain separate and continue under the same system of management as before. 
PRE-lAW SOCIETY 

James D. Hall, Patent Attorney will speak 

about Patent Law  7:30  
Wed.  Nov.  17  127  
Niewland.  



PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Sign up this week for job interviews for the week of November 29 through Dec. 3 
Interviews are open to N D and SMC seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 207, Main Building. Select your own time and sign your name. Room 207 will be open at 8:00a.m. until 5:00p.m. each day, except Friday. 
Consult the Placement Manual for additional information regarding interviews and procedure. 
NOTE: The interviews listed below will take place after Thanksgiving. There will be no interviews during Thanksgiving week. 
Interviews scheduled for Nov. 29 through Dec. 3 
National Bank of Detroit. AB and BBA for Branch Management. MBA for Com-Nov. 29 
mercial Loan Analyst. Nov. 29-30 The Trane Company. BS in A. E., Ch.E., C. E., E.E., M.E.I.O. BS, MS in M.E. Alberto-Culver Company. BS, MS in Engineering for MFG. and Ptod, All degree
Nov. 30 

levels in Science for R & D. BBA and MBA for Gen. Bus., Acct., Sales and Mkt. Nov. 30 General Motors Corporation. BS In M.E.I.O. BS, Ph.D, in Ch.E. All degree levels in Dec. 1, 2, 3 E.E. and M.E. BBA in Accountancy and Management. Tulane University · Graduate School of Business Admin. All interested students.
Nov. 30 

Students should read bulletin and familiarize themselves with program and op­
portunities. University of Chicago · Graduate School of Education. Interested primarily in students who have not done undergraduate work in education, but rather in Liberal Arts. 
Dec. 1 Elliott Company. Division of Carrier Corp. Cancelled. McGiadrey, Hansen, Dunn & Company. BBA in.Axxr. MBA. Ohio Department of Highways. BS, MS in C. E. Youngstown Sheet and Tube Co. BS in C. E., E.E., Engr. Sci., M.E., Math., M.E.I.O. 
BBA in Finance, Marketing and Management for Sales. 
Dec. 2 ACTION-Peace Corps, Vista. BA, BBA, MA, MBA, LAW. BS, MS, in E.E., M.E., C. E. and Science. B. of Arch. Factory Mutual Engineering Association. BS in M.E., C. E., Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York. BA, BBA and MBA. National Labor Relations Board. AB, BBA and MBA Westinghouse Electric Corp. BS in M.E. and E.E. 
Dec. 2 3 American Can Company. Cancelled. 
Monday, November 15, 1971 THE, OBSERVER 
•

Health care at SMC var1es 
Obst>rver Insight by Don Ruant> Obst>rver Campus Editor 

A college or university is ex­
pected to teach one how to cope 
with life's problems, but a person 
rarely, if ever, thinks that some 
answprs may be found at an 
institution's health service. 
At St. Mary's Health Service, 
Director Mrs. Verna Wood and 
her staff feel that medical aid 
should not be limited solely to 
treatment, but extended to 
Pducate one about the pros and 
cons of things that have great 
influence on health. 
Although the Health Service 
personnel are not counselors, 
they arc willing to talk with in­
firmary visitors during slack 
periods, which come infrequently 
since 45 to 60 students visit the 
third floor LeMans facility a day. 
When counseling is needed, the 
student is referred to the proper 
agency. If one is after general 
information, the Health Service 
provides information pamphlets 
on a wide variety of topics in­
duding drugs, venereal disease, 
diets, alcoholism and smoking. 
Those who seek birth control 
information are usually referred, 
hut very few come to the in­
firmary in search of such in­
formation, according to Mrs. 
Cocaine is~ 
(Continued from page 3) 
Cocaine was popular in the 
1920's, but evidently declined 
thereafter for reasons that are 
not clearly known. 
It is a white, odorless powder 
<•xtracted from the leaves of the 
<'Oca bush, a plant that grows in 
the foothills of the Andes. South 
American Indians have been 
chewing the leaf since pre­
Columbian times to relieve 
hunger and fatigue and to 
produce a feeling of exhilation. 
The pure crystalline substance has some anesthetic properties and is also an extremely powerful stimulant when sniffed, swallowed or injected. One rl'port , of its action said repeated injected doses "lead to maniacal excitation, muscular twitching and convulsive movements." There have been rPports of convulsions and death from over-doses. The drug is not believed to produce a state of physical dependence in the user. 
Among illicit users the drug goes by such names as "coke," "dust," "the leaf" and "snow," which is also a slang name for heroin. 
Wood. 
Most St. Mary's students come 
in search of relief from colds, 
sore throats, fever, and to get 
first aid and for treatment of 
woman-oriented problems. 
Facilities Small 

Usually more than 90 percent of 
the visitors to the Health Services 
leave as soon as treatment is 
completed. However, it is not 
uncommon for three students to 
be in-patients -that is, they stay 
at least one night. There might be 
more patients, although not 
significantly more, except for the 
special limitations of the 
building. 
Facilities, according to Mrs. 
Wood, include two examination 
rooms, a medical room and 
nurses' office. This is sup­
plemented by a single-bed 
private room and two wards, 
each containing two beds. 
Cases of mononucleosis are 
usually treated for five to seven 
days before it is recommended 
that the patient go home until she 
recuperates. 
"We don't have the facilities 
and I don't want to tie them up," 
Mrs. Wood explains. 
Most treatment at the St. 
Mary's Health Service is ad­, ministered by three registered nurses and two licensed practical nurses between· 7:30 a.m. and 

trend 
Much of the supply that reaches the United States is thought to come from Bolivia and Peru. The drug is appearing not only in this country but also in Europe. <The reasons for its new popularity are conjectural, but the use of cocaine seems to have increased with the spread of heroin.) 
Dr. Karst Besteman, deputy director of the division of narcotic addiction and drug abuse of the National Institute of Mental Health, said one logical explanation was easy to imagine. 
Cocaine exerts its powerful 
stimulant action even in the 
presence of opiates in the bod~, 
he explained. Therefore, a herom 
addict, under treatment with 
methadone and desperate for any 
kind of "high" might try cocaine. 
The addict would not be able to 
get a satusfying effect from 
heroin because of the blockading 
effect of methadone. 
In any case, the current 
evidence is that cocaine seems to 
be joining the list of major 
problem drugs with heroin, LSD 
and the amphetamines. 
Casey & Fordham are new council members 
The Exchange Commission, William J. Casey, and Jefferson 
B. Fordham, dean of the University of Pennsylvania School of Law and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman William J. Casey, have been appointed to the advisory ('Ouncil of the University of Notre Dame's Law School Casey at­tended council sessions this weekend on the campus. 
Casey has served as counsel to the Senate Small Business Committee and as associate general counsel of the Marshall Plan world headquarters in 1948. lie is a lecturer and author of a series of books on tax shelter plans. He received his un­dl'rgraduate degree at Fordham University and his law degree at St. John's University, New York. 
Fordham, who received his undergraduate and legal degrees from the University of North Carolina, was a member of the law school faculty at West Virginia University and special assistant to the U.S. Secretary of Labor before his appointment to the deanship at Pennsylvania. He is the author of a book on local government law and co-author of a coursebook on legislation. Fordham was awarded a J.S.D. degree at Yale University in 1930 and honorary degrees at University of North Carolina and Franklin and Marshall. 
Members of the Notre Dame advisory council meet periodically with Law School faculty and administrators to assist in the planning of currt-nt eourses and new areas of study. 
9: 30 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
Naturally they, can only provide limited treatment, so the Health Service provides a doctor from 8 a.m. to 9 a.m. each Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday. There are two doctors, both general practioners, who alternate days of duty. 
The nurses may give non­prescriptive medication and tetnus shots, but only with per­mission of one of the doctors. Any prescription must be written by one of the two doctors, and filled at a drug store. 
Treatment is available nearly 24 hours a day, according to Mrs. Wood. In addition to the above hours, at least one nurse is on duty from I p.m. to 5 p.m., and from 6:30p.m. to 9 p.m. Saturday and Sunday; from 8a.m. to 1 p.m. on home Notre Dame football weekends; and a nurse sleeps at the infirmary each night from 9:30p.m. to 6:30a.m. This leaves the Health Service attended 19 hours on weekends, and 23 hours a day Monday through Friday. 
Similar but Different 

The Health Service is similar to the Notre Dame Student In­firmary in two respects but differs in another. Similarities include financing and the policy of only treating their respective students except in emergency situations. At both institutions, students provide a sizable portion of their infirmary's budget; Notre Dame through its room and board fees, and St. Mary's by means of a $25 a year fee for on­campus students, which prov­ides nearly $45,000 in funds. 
The difference between the two arises in treatment for off­campus students. St. Mary's considers the off-campus resident as an outsider, who is not required to pay the annual fee , and will not provide treatment except in emergency situations that arise while the student is on campus. 
At Notre Dame, the off-campus resident may get treatment, but pays for all medication and laboratory work, in addition to a modest eight dollar room fee if he becomes an in-patient. 

St. Louis C lub Th an k sgi vi n g B u s Round Trip $20 For In form at ion and Reservati on s call Jim 1061 M on ey coli ect ed t h i ~ week in 164 A 1u m n i 
AKAI CS -SOD 

Autoinatic reverse cassette deck Reg. $189.95 Save $40.00 SALE PRICE $149.95 

Look at these features: Frequency Response 30 to 16,000 HZ. Wow -Flutter less than 0.2%. Auto Stop -Auto Shut-Off. Continuous Reverse. Pause Control. Two VU Meters 
Index Counter with Reset Button. 


t\Ud\0 


P.~CUUStS sates and. s~\oc 



THE OBSERVER

6 Monday, November 15. 1971 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editm·-in-C'hief. Glen S. Corso Assistant EditorAssistant Editor 
All successful newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
ceaseless! y querulous and bellicose. They never defend 
Advet:tising Manager 

Business Manager anyone or anything if they can help it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle
Jim Jendryk 
they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

News: 283-1715

Business: 283-7 4 71 
Las t W e-e k in 

Mississippi 
"We have done our level best," he said, "we have scratched our heads to find out how we could eliminate the last one of them (Negores). We stuffed ballot boxes. We shot them. WE ARE NOT ASH<\MED OF IT." 
It could have been written by any cheap white ballot-pusher in last week's Mississippi election. Itcould have been written by any one of the cornepone conspirators who assigned Black~ registration places outside their own precinct and failed to inform them of the reroute until election day. It could have been written by any one of the drawling mendicants who refused to give Blacks time off from work to vote on election day. It could have been I written by any one of the rednecks who put the Mississippi polling booths in the middle of areas known to be dangerous to Black men. Itcould have been written last) week, in Mississippi. 
But it. wasn't. It was written by Ben Tillman, the Senator from South Carolina. In 1900. 
Sad, isn't it. Seventy-one years -and no change. In Mississippi last week, two hundred eighty-four Blacks -including gubernatorial can­didate Charles Evers, the brother of slain civil rights leader Medgar Evers -ran for statewide office. Two hundred fourty-four -again in­cluding Evers -lost. Many of those losses came in districts where the registration was heavily Black, and the voting percentage was low. 
Among all the states of the Union, Mississippi has one of the lowest standards of living. It has one of the highest infant mortality rates. It has one of the lowest literacy rates. Ithas one of the poorest school systems; one of the poorest hospital systems. Itis a national disaster area. 
There's so much to do there! Any ambitious public servant ought to be . inspired by the possibilities -inspired until he learns that skincolor is more important than ideas; that the game there is not to drag the state back outof the swamp or even to win elections as much as it is to keep the Nigras out of the voting booth. 
How stupid it is! You think for a minute, until you realize that it is Mississippi, land of stupditiy, where stupidity breeds stupidity; where bigotry is more important than the school system. Perhaps an intellegent or educated man or group of men can sieze the time and sieze the state and make it turn itself around as other men in other Southern states have done, but we doubt it. A man with an idea is just as much an "outsider" in M Mississippi as is the Mayor of New York City. 
We don't have any solution. Just despair. 
News Editor: Jerr)' Lutkus 
SMC News Editor: Ann Conway 
Campus Editor: Don Ruane 
Features Editor: rick smith 
Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 
Associate Editor: Ed Ellis, Ann 
Therese Darin 
Night Editor: Marty Miller 

Headlines: Don Biancamano, 
Marc Luppins, T.C.Treanor 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY N! ! ! 

DINNER FoR .1. A"T" TH~ FA8Vt-OU~ 
(Yo\l'lftr Hfi'AttO A-to'-A Bc.»VT ,-..,.cln'\) ;f' /) --_/'}: 1 ~>0 /NOGD@ ~ ~P.fi-7~AA! 
fil::.c~:_q v;:ia..{.( ·;u--t.V(/ 0,._ X~i1[1, d'j~Wil!t!U 
CONvEW•E:NTLT l..IIC/ITC'P IN OQINNTO~N NOTRo PA""E 

~---.:.=;r.-;c~~~-::;;;;;;;;;;....,_.._ JusT c. H ~ GIC Yo V it '•~ LlltiiY' JII\IJ01G~"Y loiHICH
1 IS. Yo\ltt~ /'tNO vou~s 
.41.-o/V~.

If IT ,NVtTCHID Ollft A.IST: 
Yre® MD~~ 
1{. riOT·" •. • 
Steve Lazar 

The Pterodactyl 
On the edge of civilization I was born. On the shelf of dawn. When time was hatched I spread my wings Oonger than three lengths of any man>. No eye saw me, nor heard me cry, in my bright canyon, above the rushing water (save for the eye of dawn, which blinked, and the open ear of wck, my brother). Perhaps you know me, the pterodactyl, primitive reptilian bird with two fierce pairs of claws, tooth-jagged beak, and skin stretched like canvas across the wings. Perhaps in the heights of your deepest dreams you have heard my earth-shocking cry. 
Civilization's dawn did not break me. My bones did not petrify as your experts suggest. Air is my element. And stone. Left to my own I rode the cyclone of the time high above your civilizations, high above the colossi of your own creations. Wafted along on the jet stream of pure progression I circle within the rock -hard boundaries of infinity. At last, I am lifted beyond time. You can challenge space, but you cannot challenge me. 
Quartz-clear is my sight, quartz-dear, my vision. (Vulcan, great god that he was, could not fuse lenses for this height). And so I see this planet with eyes strong as stone. Once, it was my home. And so I see you, Man. You, shaper of stone, who with the glorious hinge of your hand can carve canyons, found civilizations, build homes. I see your triumphs, your failures, and your abominations. I speak to you now of your wrongs, nation of nations. 
I have seen you collectively and unknowingly perverting your own nature. In pursuit of economic stability you have altered reality. You have been given, and this is what you give: Listen: 
--the programmed obsolescence of material goods; things fall apart on schedule, their centres cannot hold. --seduction by advertisement, acquisitiveness, creation of artificial needs. --mass production, resulting in a surplus which requires mass destruction; an economy, frankly, which needs war. 
--repressive sublimation of human needs, channelling of natural desires into prophylactic dead ends, resulting in men who die in­complete, who have never lived. 
--oppressiveness of time, mentality like clockwork, resulting in lovers who cease loving at the sound of the chime. --the cool isolation of man from man, suburb from city, neighbor from neighbor. --reliance upon artificial stimulants, pollution of human kind by 
foods. 

--the pathological destruction of the earth. 
Oh, Man, glorious Man, triumphant species, this is your crime: you 
are deadening your self, your existence. Your sensibilities you package and sell. 
Oh glorious bird that I am -I am what I am with pride, without 
falsity, without perversion. Oh terrible, terrible bird that I am to tell 
you these things; but I see, and there is the burden of this vision. 
And now that you have heard your crimes against nature you must 
hear mine also. I have re-entered time. I, prehistoric bird, have en­
tered history. But it is not to rend and tear as was my wont in previous 
times. You see, I have shed my scaly skin, and my claws, and my 
beak. My bones are folded over with silken flesh now; my blood is red, 
and fresh. I meet my lover at the mountain's cradle, and we are soft to 
each other, yes soft. I have come to perfect history, to perfect it, oh 
splendid creatures that we are. Let us begin. 
Monday, November 15, 1971 sr. patricio mcneal  THE OBSERVER  
tell mother, ''you what you  are eat  I  I  

Daniel .J. Boorstin, a consensus and owns Avis l{ent-a-Car, Sheraton Motor politically "conservalive" American Inns. and many parts of our economy. historian. in his latest book, The Decline of i\ group which calls itself "Another 
/?adicalism: Reflections on America 1\lollwr for Peace," 407 N. Maple, Beverly Today states: "Consumption Com­llills, California, 90210 is organizing a munities, both by their strengths and by nation-wide boycott until Chirstmas of tlwir wt~aknesses, reveal to us peculiar ('Onsunwr items produced by companies featurPs of American life in our time. ownPd by I.T .T. Other corporations with Older forms of community--of family, of largl' war contracts include Alcoa (Alcoa nation. and of religion--of course still Wrap. Wt>arever utensils, Cutco cutler); ('ontinut> to hind men logetlwr. But the c/11 Pont !Teflon. Orion, Dacron, etc.), Dow dislindive lwentiedl-century form o( 1Baggies. Saran Wrap--and still makes community t•volved in modern America is dwmicals for war though not napalm). llw Consumption Community measured Also Eastman Kodak, B'ord, General nnd displayed in a standard of living ... We 1\lotors. General B~lectric, General nn· lwld In other nwn. not only by a few TPIPphone and l•:lectronic Corporation, 1ron bonds, but by countless gossamer llnnl'ywPII. Motorola, Olin, Raytheon, Wl'hs lying logetlwr the trivia of our lives IWA. Singer, Sperry Hand. Textron, and t'VI'I'V dav." Wt•slinghouse. 
1\l;;y I. lake the liberty of extending B:v focusing primarily on I.T.T. 1\ooslin's "trivia" to our "albatros," the "Another Mother for Peace" hopes to 11·ar in Indo-China. There are now more 1nake a dent in I.T.T.'s image and profits. civilians under systema~ic fire than at any It also hopes In make all buyers more lillll' in llw last 25 years--but public con­awarP of the extent to which large cor­t'('l'll lwrP al honw is fading. The sub­porations in the llnted States own so much ;.lilulion of li.S. air power for foot soldiers of tlw l'Cotwmy while profiting also from has rl'dueed public pressure to end the multi-million dollar war contracts. war With ft•wer Anwricans dying, with It is at this point that I express "sad­S('t'IH's of American troops burning ness" and maybe a little "bitterness" pt•asanl huts no longer night-time TV fare, because there isn't "Another Student for n~:1ny believe that thel'n•sident is indeed I'Pace" organization (if that is a bad word, "winding down" the war. solidarityl that would awaken students to 
This war is not winding down for hun­tlwir own power over their own trivia. drl'ds of Ihousands of Laotians and ThPn' arc needs that cannot be denied and <'ambodians now hiding underground from I praisl' lhc mothers in not attempting to .\lnl'ri('an bombers; for the over 100,000 hoycotl the use of the telephone. I also polil i('a I prisoners sweltering in South praise them for their willingness to \'il'tn.. m's inhuman jails (paid for by U.S. saerifice the non-essentials in attempting laxpayt•rsl; for nearly 10 million landless to absorb some of the pain. Yet, we know and IH'nniless refugees. We have seen a tlw ('Ost of peace will be as high as the cost massiw air war waged for seven years in of war. l.<ltls without li.S. ground troops, leading II sel'ms that Vietnam dramatized the 1nany In lwlieve that such warfare may profound difficulty of realizing the t·onlimle indefinitely throughout Indochina AniPril'an drPam to such an extent that or ollwr third world countries. Technology paralysis has st'l in. Thus, the recgnition npplil'dlo warfare has reduced the need of of tlw inlt't-eontwctedness of the war with IHinH'I'ous soldiers. Laser-guided bombs our nHmdatw economy and individual and l'll'elronic sensors bring air strikes consumption, leads us at least to assume against any sign of life. t'l'sponsibility for our own trivia. Students 
I.T.T. International Telephone and andiPaclwrs on the campuses have gotten Tl'll'graph--is one of the major military llwir fingers burned and silence has set in. contractors. I.T.T. makes equipment for llopdully, il is nol a scandalous silence I hi' "PII't'l ronic ha ttleficld" on which the ll'hich sl'rves as a cover to permit sex, 
li.S. 111ilitary increasingly relies to drugs. and drink lo fill lhe void. But 
Page 7 


Pliminah• human hPings from the war. At hopdully. it is a silence which means a lhl' same lime it owns companies which t'ontt•mplation of values: life, love, 111akt• Wonder Bread. Hostess Cakes, jusli('l'. JWace. A contemplation that is Cakc•s. Morton Foods. and Continental hParing fruit in resistance--even in the !laking <'ompany products. I.T.T. also trivia of mws life. 

could this be the end, my friend? 
Former Look Pditor George Leonard has agriculture, and finall the age of prPdieiPd that the end of our civilization Civilization that is just now drawing to a has alrPady begun and man in entering a dose. m•w era of "Transformation." The great failure of the age of 
lntPrviewPd by John Poppy in the Civilization, according to Leonard, is that ('Urrent 1Nov.) issue of Intellectual Digest, it den icd the spiriutal aspects of Leotwrd says that a new age of awareness humanity: "Civilization's insistence on is dawning and men are beginning to see matler, at the expense of perception. that many of the concepts upon which their feeling" being---the lings we call con­civilization is based are merely myths. sciousness---lhrew everything out of 
Myths such as "more and bigger is balance." always better" and the notion that man This Transformation is not a recent can bt· considered separately from the phenomena, Leonard says, but may have total concept of "Life on Earth," he been going on since the Henaissance. And daims, have been exposed. it will be going on for much longer. "We're 
In "The Transformation," a book going to move toward a new kind of species LPonard is now writing, he seeks to expose that won't even be recognized in today's these and other myths--that competition is tPrms." he adds. inevitable; that human nature is flawed; "The Transformation is inevitable," that wP are locked into separate egos; that Leonard writes, and it's "Not the sort of glory, honor and duty have tangible value, thing we have to strive to bring on, hut that & muddy and so on. lie believes that when people doesn't mean we can just sit. Doing 
waters

hPcomP aware of these myths they are nothing is a positive decision, after all. Our dospr to accepting the new realities of the n•sisting the Transformation will cause Transformation. dl•strudion. What we might have to do is 
i\ecording to Lt>onard, the key word to strive to flow with it. to do something about tiH• Transformation is "awareness." this huge superstructure of Civilization Transfornwd man, with an intensified lhal is bent, with all its might, not only on awarmess of his environment, may even kl'l'ping soeial organization fixed but on he able to pnter a state of "oceanic kl'Pping consciousnpss fixed." 

put on

awareness" and nwrge with other beings Culture during the Transformation will wlwn lw wishes to communicate with lw more flexible than during Civilization, 

one hell

them. Leonard sayd, because man will not at-Placing the Transformation in a tempi to pl'rceive l'xistence as something 

of a show 
historical perspl'clive. Leonard says that "!rapped in a certain form." OnP of the it will be the fourth basic period of an-stumbling hloeks of Civilization. he adds, lhropological time. First was the age of is that il lrys lo "sl'areh for stability" by man tlw hunter. then the age of st•Ping all things in a "fixpd" perspective. 



..----------------------------------------~-----~ ------­
Monday, November 15, 1971

Page 8 THE OBSERVER 
Letters to the Editor 
Editor: all to have it validaated for 
I'm sending this as a Letter to meals. The lady there was quite the Editor, but I don't really care pleasant and put a little stamp on if it gets printed. I'm just pissed it which she said was good for two 
off  and  wanted  to  bitch  to  weeks.  That card  was  quite  a  
someone.  novelty among the checkers in  
Dear Fellow Students:  • the North Dining Hall. About half  

For those of you who have of them knew what it was, but never lost your I.D. or laundry they were all willing to accept it-­ticket and coupons, let me warn for awhile. Then one day this you to guard these precious items weekend, it was suddenly "in­as if they were the very essence valid." Luckily, the checkers of life. About three weeks ago I took pity on me and let me in, but was unfortunate (and stupid) insisted I have it validated on enough to lose all three. Since Monday. So it was back to the 
• then, my opinion of Notre Dame South Dining Hall Monday before has sunken considerably. I could eat. 
I knew that getting a new J.D., Replacing my laundry tickets etc. would be a pain in the ass, and coupons was really a show. I but this is ridiculous. The first didn't have any identification thing I did was go to Fr. Riehle's with me when I first went to the office where the secretary laundry office. I was really directed me down the hall to an surp~is~d by this office. Not only office which would handle my was It,Immaculate, but it looked problem. Here I encountered a efficient. Could this be the same rarity --a lady secretary who organization which has actually seemed to know what systematically depleted my she was doing. She gave me a underwear and sock supply for "temporary I.D." which was the last three years? As it turned good until I got my new per-out, it was all a phony facade. manent one. With this, I happily Sure, they were pretty nice about strode down to the South Dining replacing my laundry ticket, but 
Welsh includes youth in plans for campaign 
Matt Welsh, former governor every age group and socialof Indiana, plans to run for background. Some of the com­another term in 1972. Unlike mittees in the making are the gubernatorial candidates in the Committee on the Drug Problem past Welsh intends to coordinate The Committee on Vocational his campaign in such a manner Training Adult Education the that voters from 18-21 who live in Committee on Mexican­a college town will be appe~led to American Problems and the for their support. The emphasis Committee on Abortion. Welsh on this approach is not to form intends to solicit volunteer help in them into block-voting strength research from both the univer­

but rather to initiate programs sities and the civic communities. 
that will allow the college student He will travel throughout Indiana to work with the civic community to visit both university and civic 
rather than be treated as an leaders. alienated faction in that com­munity. 
-ATTENTION-

This approach is based on the Delaware County Decision that 
PAUL'S

permits college students to vote 
in the city in which their 
SHOE 

university is located as long as 
they forsake residency claims in 
REPAIR 

their own home town. In. line with this decision, 
Rear of Main Building
former governor Welsh is for­
ming investigation committees in 
various topics of interest to 
-HOURS~ 

everyone which will · be con­
stituted by voting citizens from / 
Daily 7 A.M. to 6 P.M.
ND-lSU Football 
Weekend 
Saturday 8 to Noon

Friday, Nov. 19 Pep Rally Cocktail Party 
6: 30 pm · Royal Sonesta 
Shoe Strings, Polish,
Hotel 
Saturday, Nov. 20 Bus Transportation to Baton 
Quick Service 

Rouge for the game 
Cultural Arts Commission's literary Program presents : 
John Montague 
Mon. N.ov. 15 8:00pm 
Library Auditorium 
that's not much good without completely about what was might have been the fact that the coupons, is it? happening on the field and were ACC is not sponsoring this con­So, here I am with no clean concentrating solely on the voice cert in conjunction with the laundry, no hope of getting any from the pressbox you might Student Union, and this somehow and an I.D. which is only "valid have been able to hear and led its managers to believe that enough" at certain times in understand as far away from its there would not be much student eertain situations. It's quite an . point of origin as the 30 yard line. interest in such an event. Or experience replacing one's Thus I would venture to say that possibly it was the fact that all identity. I can't remember my there was not a substantial those tickets sold to non-students 
name or anything else about my amount of students who knew don't carry that one dollar past --just my J.D. number. about the con~ert before seeing discounts on each of them Hopefully, my new permanent the Observer ad. Yet if you went brought visions of splendor to 
l.D. will ·fill the holes and start to try and buy tickets after seeing their desk calculators. But me on the road to recovery. Once this ad you were very suprised to whatever the case I think it's again, I'll be able to fit into the find that as of before the time about time these people realize machines. that ad was in front of the that the students here are also students at lunchtime, the only part of the community and Son of Our Lady No. 691121633 remaining seats were bleacher deserve as much notification on ', ones. Now, this seemed very coming events as is given to 
strange and prompted one to everyone else. Yes, gentlemen, Editor: 
wonder where all those other as incredible as it may seem to This letter was prompted by seats with their advertised you there are a lot of people on 
what seems to me a distressing student discounts dissappeared this campus who would like to situation brought on by the to. However the answer was not see this concert, and they would managers of ticket policy at the to hard to find as it seems that like to do so in good seats,ACC. I am referring to the ' the people of South Bend and the regardless of whether they get a coming Fifth Dimension concert surrounding communities have discount or not. Thus hopefullyand the advertising policies for been the recipients of a very you will be able to change our this event. Before the appearance extensive advertising campaign policies slightly in the future in 
of the ad in yesterday's(Nov. 19) at least two weeks now. And thus order to take these people into Observer, the only mention on at leazst two weeks now. And thus consideration before they find it 
campus of this event was one(l) far these people at least there necessary to buy themselves half-hearted announcement at seemed to be open season on any televisions and daily sub­
· one of the football games, Navy I seat in the house. scriptions to local newspapers to believe, which if you were lucky Now, I don't know what it was find what is happening on their enough to have forgotten that prompted such a policy; it own campus. 
It looksgood inraces tOO 
If the sleek fastback lines buying one, don't be afraid 2-litre, 6 cylinder engine, 
and the well-appointed that you're simply paying disc brakes in front, interior of the GT-6 make it for style or the sumptuous rack and pinion steering, look like more show car than reclining seats, or for good acceleration and a sports car, don't be fooled. standard equipment detail­good track record. 
The GT-6 is the national ing like the walnut facia The good looks come E Class champion racer in and the.self-defrosting rear as a bonus. 
SCCA competition. window. It has been the champion for Figure you're investing Triumph GT-61J two years running. in an all independent 
So if you're thinking of suspension system, a 
Available for Immediate Delivery at 

II ILIEIMIII 
.~TRIUMPH, SPIT;I,;~~·~~6. TR6, & STAG 
' 

916 E. McKinley, Mishawaka Phone 255-4751
Admission Free 
Monday, November 15, 1971 

THE OBSERVER Paae 9' 
-

Wage line theory faces antagonism 
Nt>ws Analysis year in national productivity and roughly one-quarter of to~al the 5.5 per cent pay umbrella, have already turned down an 
<C> 1!171 Nt>w y(,rk Times the erosive effect on pay payroll, this served as an m-and the figure itself will be employer offer of 25 per cent for 
New York <undated)-The two envelopes of higher living costs flationary prod in its own right. reviewed periodically to see one year, will present an even principal authors of the as the touchstones for deter-F d whether the cost of living trends tougher problem than the miners philosophy on which the Pay mining how much wages should e era 1 breakdown require modification, another when they finally do settle. So Board rests its hopes of holding go up. bow to the Wilson-Reuther will Chicago grain elevator the wage line in Phase Two of The theory underlying their The other unsettling factor was philosophy. employees, on strike after President Nixon's anti-inflation prescription was that it was the regularity with which the Unfortunately, the real spurning a 45 per cent increase effort hold no membership in the government's responsibility to government fell down on its end questions in the infancy of Pha.se for three years. hoard. In fact, they are not even maintain a stable dollar through of the stabilization job. The Two. rel~te 1!1uch less to 1ts The Pay Board's basic policies alive. But if the Pay Board can its management of fiscal and impact of swollen military poss1ble 1mprmt on long-range contain lots of elastic for keep its 5.5 per cent guidepost monetary policy and that budgets, first for Korea and then bargaining pattern than to the authorizing above ceiling in­from being splintered by the workers were entitled to for Vietnam with much floun-clear and present danger that the creases to offset "inequities and massive challenges that will beat assurance they would get their dering on other sectors of the whole co.ntrol effort will be substandard conditions," but if down on it in the next few weeks, fair share of increased economic fiscal and monetary fronts, scuttled nght away by demands that language proves permissive the precepts formulated nearly a pfficiency in the form of a touched off such a persistent for official approval of pay set­enough to let through humbo quarter century ago by the guaranteed 3 per cent im-leapfrog of wages and prices tlements double, tripl.e and .e~en packages of these dimensions the hoard's ghostly mentors may provement in buying power. across the economy that the quadruple the theoretical ce1hng. board can forget about trying to help achieve a permanent exca!ator provision itself turned Policy too elastic? make its 5.5 per cent figure stick reorientation of collective un i 0 n s u n h a p p y into an engine of inflation. anywhere. The history of wage bargaining toward reason and For all that, the basic General stabilization all over the world it away from force. Two factors have kept this Motors formula remains the This weekend's strike set­that every time the basic stan­
The two invisible wage theory from working out longest step in any major in­tlement in the coal mines, calling dards are fractured to allow a controllers are the late Charles precisely according to plan in the dustry toward putting a scientific for increases estimated at 39 major exception, a hundred other 
E. Wilson, who went from automotive big three. One was base under wage determination. percent or more over three years, groups are on deck to explain command of General Motors to that the union, under constant In essence, it is precisely the makes it plain that neither unions why they are even more entitled the Pentagon as Secretary of rank and file pressure to prove formula embodied in the 5.5 per nor employees in major in­to the same free ride. Defense in the Eisenhower that bargaining had not become cent standard adopted by the Pay dustries have yet got the message The government's attempt to Cabinet, and Walter P. Reuther, so mechanical it could be done by Board. That standard hitches the that a drastic slowdown is hold the rpice line--already the imaginative former a computer, kept stretching the 3 per cent basic figure for required in the wild scramble of dented by the auto industry's President of the United Auto formula by insisting on expensive productivity improvement to the wages and prices--the scramble attempted end run on car prices­Workers. In 1948 these two were fringe benefits over and beyond 2.5 per cent guidepost the price that forced a reluctant White is built on a pass along of higher co-signers of a pioneering the basic pay allowances. Since commission has erected for House to switch from do costs. On that basis, another "progress sharing" contract at pensions, supplemental unem­Pconomy-wide increases in nothingism to activist in­runaway upsurge in labor costs General Motors, one that took the ployment benefits and other prices. Fringes as well as money volvement three months ago. The would automatically doom the 2.5 long-term growth of 3 per cent a fringe items now represent wages are supposed to stay under west coast longshoremen, who per cent goal for prices. 
Coulson discusses sex 
The Student Union Academic philosophy of the human scien­Con111Tission is sponsoring a ces, Man and the Science of Man, 
Whatislifewithoutlove?
lec(ureby Dr. William R. Coulson and is consulting editor on the tonight at 8:00 in Washington. Dr. series "Studies of the Person" for Coulson, who is &peaking on "Sex the Charles E. Merrill Publishing and Communication", is a Company. His professional in­member of the Center for Studies terests include the basic en­of the Person in La Jolla, counter group (sensitivity California, and served as a training>, and he is presently 
director of that unique institution completing a critical analysis of 
in its transition from division of sensitivity training, Groups and 
the Western Behavioral Sciences Gimmicks. 
Institute to its present status as 
an independent non-profit 
scientific and educational cor­
poration. 
With Carl Rogers, he is the 

(•ditor of a recent book on the 
GSU begins 
study of rules 
by Lyn Leone The Graduate Student Union in a meeting last Friday decided to establish an investigative committee to study how regulations in each graduate department govern graduate students who are teacher's, researcher's and resident assistants. The committee members then plan to draft a new Graduate Student Union Code and submit it to the new Vice­President for Advanced Studies, Dr. Gordon, for approval before sending it on to the Ad­ministration for final approval. The GSU also passed a resolution inquiring into each department's rationale of their 
Where the seeds 

teaching assistants program. The 
of passion

resolution also proposed to 
determine whether a teacher's 
blossomed

assistant can claim his 
assistantship as a prerequisite 
into a harvest of 

for his degree, thus bring eligible 
carnal depravity! 

for relief from all Federal income 
tax on his stipend. 
) . . 
The GSU closed its meeting by 

inviting Dr. Gordon to address 
the Graduate Student Body on the ADULTS ONLY 
state of graduate education and 
how he plans to improve it. 
plus co-feature 
THE GEEK 


From one beer lover to another. 
INDIANAPOLIS 
317·547·9971 


THE OBSERVER. Monday, November 15, 1971 
Page 10 
•

ND 1cers split at No. Dakota 
by Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 
The Fighting Irish hockey team has served notice that they've arrived in the Western Collegiate Hockey Association. Notre Dame made its WCHA debut over the weekend at the U. of North Dakota and split their season opening series with the Fighting Sioux, winning 5-4 Friday night but dropping a tough, 6-5 decision on Saturday night in the Winter Sports Building in Grand Forks. 
Notre Dame's line of John Campbell, Ian Williams and Eddie Bumbacco accounted for all five goals to lead the Irish past the Sioux on Friday. 
Saturday night, Notre Dame fought back from a 5-Q deficit to tie the score, only to lose 6-5. 
The Irish build up a 5-2 lead on a pair of goals by Bumbacco, two by Williams and one by Campbell in the first game of the series but had to scramble to hold off North Dakota, as the Sioux pressured Notre Dame heavily in the final period. 
North Dakota had grabbed an early advantage Friday night, going out in front 1-0 with a power play goal at 8:31 of the first period but Bumbacco matched that score by taking a pass from Williams and drilling a 35-foot slap shot past the Sioux goalie, Dave Murphy, at 14:30 with North Dakota a man short. 
Things perked up a bit in the second period as the Irish con­trolled much of the action and outscored the Sioux, 3-1. 
Williams put Notre Dame in front to stay just 2:33 into the second period, tipping in a shot from the point by Steve Curry. 
Campbell gave the Irish a 3-1 lead at 5:06 with an assist from Williams. The frosh center took a lead pass from his right wing and broke in on Murphy. The Sioux netminder blocked Campbell's first shot with his chest but Campbell alertly fired in the rebound. 
The Sioux made it a 3-2 game just 45 seconds later but Williams gave the Irish a two-goal bulge again at 8:27 taking a pass from Noble in the slot and skating in alone to beat Murphy with a shot on the stick side in the upper right corner of the net. 
Bumbacco's second goal of the night, at I :58 of the third period, proved to be the clincher for Notre Dame as the Sioux tallied with goals at 13:51 and 18:44 to 

OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
make the Irish scramble for their 
victory. 

Murphy made 20 stops in the 
Sioux cage while Irish goalie, 
Dick Tomasoni, had 29 saves. 

Thl:' first period of Saturday night's game was all North Dakota as the Sioux jumped out to a 4-0 lead and, when the made it 5-0 with a goal early in the second period, it appeared the Irish were hopelessly out of it. 
Notre Dame refused to quit, however, and came up with a five-goal outburst in the second stanza to tie the score, 5-5. Bumbacco scored two goals and Williams, John Noble and Bill Green notched one apiece in the Irish scoring flurry. 
Notre Dame was unable to sustain their momentum in the final stanza period though and Sioux defens~man Mike Lundby scored the game-winning goal from the point at 3:53 while the Irish were shorthanded. 
Each club picked up four points as a result of the split. North Dakota is now 1-3 on the year, 1-1 in the WCHA and the Irish are 1-1. 
Elsewhere in WCHA action weekend, the University Minnesota-Duluth swept a pair games from their arch rival, Golden Gophers from the U. Minnesota. 
Notre Dame will make its first home appearance this coming Friday and :::laturday nights againsh another WCHA op­ponent, Colorado College. 
League action begins in earnest next weekend, as besides the 

N.D. -Colorado tilts, Minn.­Duluth plays North Dakota, Denver takes on Michigan Tech, Michigan visits Wisconsin and Minnesota travels to Michigan State. 
WSND wins Media Bow I 
by Stan Urankar '7:l WSND took their second straight Media Bowl cham­pionship yesterday afternoon when they walloped the Ob­server, 18-0, on the Interhall Field. Signs that it was going to be a long day for the overmatched boys of the printing press came early, when one of Eric Kinkopf's first aerial attempts was plucked away by WSND safety Marc Carmichael. On Wiznid's first 

offensive play, Andy Scantlebury Joe Garagiola scampering down 
Orpheus in the Underworld 
Friday, Saturday, Sunday Evenings 
N ovem b er 19, 20, 21 
Morris Civic Auditorium 
A com i c op era with an all-cit y 
cast • Sp on sored h y th e M i ch ian a 
Art s an d Sci en ce Cou n ci I 
Tickets: $4, $3, $2 Available at box office 
floated a 26 yard touchdown pass to Mike "Tunes" Murphy for a 6-0 lead. 
The Observer attempted a drive and moved the ball to the 
WSND  33, when  Big  Bo  Scott  
batted  another  of  Kinkopf's  
passes  into  the  air.  Murphy  

tipped the ball back up, and Scott hauled it in and raced 67 yards for a 12-0 edge that held through the third period. 
With Scantlebury scrambling late in the third quarter, he saw the sidelines and connected for 35 yards and the final WSND tally. 
Fran Finnegan and Father Ed Ellis each took turns at the quarterbacking duties in the final period, but neither managed to be much more successful, as the Wiznid defense proved to strong to crack. Redman Tyrrell and Scott continually harried Ob­server passers into desperation throws, while the deep backs of Marty Wolf, Dale Planicka, Carmichael, and Garagiola 
combined for five interceptions. 

Cultural Arts Commission's Performing Arts Series presents 
OpenTheatre Mutation 
Tues. Nov. 16 8:30p1n O'Laughlin Au d it ori u 1n 
Admission $1.50 PA.S. Patrons $.75 

Eddie Bumbacco scored four goals as the Irish hockey team divided their season-opening weekend series at North Dakota. 
130 Dixieway South Roseland 

t1..11J,Pdi DINNERS
{)'Y'T',_ from s2.65 
Luncheons from 51 Visit The New HARP PUB and enjoy your favorite beverage 
Reservations 
Bnaquet Rooms 
272-7373
Available 
or 
Up to 200 People 
272-7900
I. 

~-~M~o-~_a_v_,_No_v_e_m_be_r_J_s_,_'9-71 Jr.1l_E__ ~-~-~_R V_~-~~---------------------------------------P_a~ge~11
______________________________ O__ __ 
Brown leads Irish past Tulane 
Second half comeback gives 
hy .Jim Donaldson S11nrts Editm· 
Cliff Brown came of age Saturday. 
Notre Dame's sophomore quarterback turned in his best performance of the year, com­pleting 15 of 19 passes, running for two touchdowns and passing for another, to lead the Irish to a 21-7, come-from-behind victory over the Green Wave of Tulane in the final Irish home game of the 
season. 
With Notre Dame trailing, 7-0, 
in the second half, Brown ran the 
club like a veteran, engineering 
three long touchdown drives, as 
the Irish fought back to post their 
eighth win of the 1971 campaign. Not~e J?ameno~ has an 8-1 record while fulane Is 3-7. 
"He's getting better," Irish 
head coach Ara Parseghian said 
of Brown after Saturday's game. 
"The experience is helping and 
he is much more poised. He 
knows he can do it." 
Tulane coach Bennie Ellender was also quick to praise the Irish signal caller, saying, "Cliff Brown was the difference in the game as far as their offense was concerned." 
Brown was by no means Notre Dame's whole offensive show, however. Fullback John Cieszkowski and split end Tom Gatewood were also main cogs in the Irish attack. Cieszkowski, blocking and running very well, was Notre Dame's top rusher, gaining 77 yards and Gatewood had his best day of the season, making seven receptions in­cluding a sensational grab that led to Notre Dame's go-ahead touchdown late in the third quarter. 
"This was really a team vic­lory for us," Parseghian said afterwards. 'I was very proud of our team and the way they came from behind in the second half. Once Tulane got seven points on the board, we had to suck in our guts and come at them -which we did." 
At the outset of the game, it didn't look like the Irish were going to have to come from behind to win. Tulane received the opening kickoff and, after failing to pick up a first down, punted to the Irish, Randy Lee's kick rolling dead at the Tulane 43. 
The Irish had excellent field position and many thought that thC' expected rout was about to hC'gin. Tulane wasn't so easily convinced of Notre Dame's supC'riority however and, in three were forced to punt. 
The Tulane defense kept Notre Dame in check throughout much of the first quarter, holding the Irish without a first down until the last four minutes of the period. 
The Green Wave was unable to mount much of an attack either in the first quarter but, early in the second quarter, Tulane put together a 65 yard scoring drive to grab a 7-0 lead. 

Starting on their own 35, the Green Wave reached paydirt in 
11 plays, Rusty Lachaussee passing 14 yards to Steve Barrios for the touchdown. Doug Bynum got the Wave movinf by picking up a first down on a couple of running plays. Two plays later, fifteen yard personal foul penalty on the Irish for piling on Bynum . put the ball on the Notre Dame 
32. 
Three running plays gave the Green Wave another first down at the Irish 20, then Rick Herbert slammed for two yards and Coleman DuPree gained four to move the ball to the 14. Lachaussee saw Barrios open over the middle at the one on third down and Tulane had six points on the scoreboard. Lee Gibson's extra point made it 7-0 and that's the way it stayed until halftime. 
The Irish came close to scoring twice in the second quarter but the Green Wave stoppped them both times. The Irish threat 
ended  when  Ed  Gulyas  was  
stacked  up just short of a  first  
down  on  a  fourth  and  two  
situation at the Tulane 17.  
The  next  time  they  had  

possession, th~ Irish drove to the Tulane 13 oefore being stopped and Bob Thomas came in to at­tempt a 30 yard field goal. Tulane's Glenn Harder managed to tip Thomas' boot and the ball barely reached the end zone. 
But with Brown leading the way, Notre Dame controlled the action in the second half, keeping the ball for over 21 minutes. 
The second time they had possession, Brown took them 66 yards in 11 plays for the tying touchdown. 
Ed Gulyas and Larry Parker had 20 and 13 yard runs, respectively, in the drive but the key play was turned in by Brown who, on a fourth and two situation at the Tulane five, faked a pass, and ran the ball four yards for a first down at the Green Wave's one. 
Cieszkowski managed to gain a foot or two on the next play and 

-· 
... "'• 

Fullback John Clewzkowsld was Notre Dame's leading rusher Saturday, picking up 77 yards in 16 carries. 

Cliff Brown was responsible for all three Notre Dame touchdowns and compared with the Green Wave's completed 15 of 19 passes as the Irish handed Tulane a 21-7 setback 
189. 

Saturday afternoon in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Notre Dame will wind up their 
second down to make it 7-6. time, Notre Dame went 72 yards season next Saturday night in Thomas' extra point tied the in nine plays, with Brown firing a Baton Rouge against Louisiana score with 6:30 left in the quarter. 19 yard pass to Mike Creaney for State, while Tulane will be idle 
The Irish scored the go-ahead the score. next weekend before concluding touchdown the next time they had Cieszkowski contributed a 17 their schedule the following their hands on the football. This yard run in the march and Saturday, also taking on LSU. 
Irish Fros h thumped 

by Vic Dorr, '74 Condredge Holloway, the quarterback of Tennessee's freshman football team, had a choice to make last spring. He had to choose between a possible career in major league baseball, and a berth with Tennessee's football Volunteers. He chose to go to Tennessee, and yesterday the Huntsville, Ala., native gave the Notre Dame freshman team good reason to wish he hadn't. Though he played only the first half of Saturday's game, Holloway led his team to a 17-Q lead after two periods, and the Baby Vols were able to coast from there. And coast they did, all the way to a 30-13 win. The elusive Tennessee QB led his team to a touchdown the first timt ~hey had possession of the hall. Holloway cranked his of­fense up on a 73-yard drive, completed a 46-yard strike to end Butch Thompson to sustain it, and capped the thrust by scrambling 12 final yards for the touchdown. llolloway was shaken up on the touchdown play, and though he remained in the game at that time, he did not see any action during the final two periods. The Baby Vols ran their lead to 10-0 on a :JO-yard field goal by Hicky Townsend, and got another ' opportunity when the Irish frosh fumbled deep in ND territory. Tennessee took over on the Irish 20, and it didn't take Holloway 'long to move his team across the Irish goal line a second time. This time, halfback John Sapp dived over from the one to claim tlw score. And Sapp came right back at the start of the second h<llf. Temwssee, starting from its own :J2-yard line, drovP to their third touchdown in justninP plays, and it was Sapp who took it in from llw eight. TownsPnd converted, and the Irish yparlings were 
'. '·" 
Frosh QB Tom Clements 

never able to get any closer than 17 points after that. 
ND sliced the score to 24-7 early in the fourth period. The Irish notched their first tally of the day on a :J8-yard strike from QB Tom Clements to widP receiver Pete Demerle, and when Clements booted the conversion there was still plenty of time remaining. 
Perhaps C'ncouraged by the first signs of life from their off­ensive teammates, the Irish defense stopped Tennessee, a.nd forced the Vols to kick---one of only three Tennessee punts all day. 
Clements then led the Irish on another promising drive. But that drive---and any comeback hopes which ND might have been nursing---was smothered when a razzle-dazzle play backfired at tlw Tennessee five. 
The Irish QB, facing a fourth and goal from the Vol five, Gatewood made a sensational 
catch of a third down Brown pass, 
go6d for 18 yards at the 21. • 
Brown's pass to Creaney was 
also a third down play. Brown 
found his big tight end free at the 
Tulane four and fired the ball to 
him. Creaney carried a defender 
into, the end zone for his first 
touchdown of the season. 

Thomas' conversion made it 14-7 . with only five seconds remaining 
in the quarter. • 
The Irish clinched their victory with a time consuming scoring drive in the fourth quarter. Brown carried the ball over from the five on a keeper play to cap a 20-play, 75-yard march that consumed 9:13. Thomas con­verted with just 1:14 left in the game to make it 21-7. 
Brown and Parker both made long runs in third down situations in the march, Brown circling left end for 10 yards on one occasion and Parker rambling for 16 yards on a delay several minutes later. 
The Irish dominated the final statistics, recording 25 first downs to Tulane's 11 and running up 395 yards in total offense 
handed off to halfback Ronny Goodman, and then drifted into the end zone. Goodman pulled up and aimed a pass in Clements' direction, but the ball was snatched out of the air at the four by Tennessee linebacker Steve Stapp. Stapp dazzled the Neyland Stadium crowd of 31,300 by returning the interception 96 yards for the final Vol TD. Townsend's extra point attempt was no good, but the miss was of little consequence. 
The ND frosh struck back for their final tally with but three seconds left to play. Clements4 topped a 66-yard drive by hitting halfback Goodman with a 21-yard TDpass for Notre Dame'slast six points. 
Statistically, it was a fairly even contest. The Irish yearlings picked up 428 yards in total of­fense, while Tennessee gathered 
437. ND rushed for 183 yards, while the Vols gained 184 on the ground. Tennessee's quar­lPrbacks hit on 13 of 30 passes for 
25:J yards and three interceptions, while Clements was connecting on 18 of :!1 for 245 yards and two intercPptions. 
The Irish squad, for the second week in a row, had difficulty in holding on to the football. ND fumbled four times against Tennessee, but the Irish were able to recover all but one of their bobbles. Tennessee fumbled once, and lost that one to the Irish defense. 
The game was Tennessee's fourth win against one loss. The Vols had earlier beaten Van­derbilt, Georgia TPch, and Alabama, while losing only to KPnlucky. But the loss dumped­Notre Dame's record to the .500 le"'el. The Irish yearlings started out WC'II---by downing Mexico and Michigan State on successive weekends---hut then suffered back-to-hack defeats at the hands of Michigan and Tennessee to even thPir record at 2-2. 
Monday, November 15, 1971

Page 12 THE OBSERVER 
Deportation faces early war protestor 
<Cl l!lil New York Times 
by Jon Nordheimer 

Tallahassee, Fla., Nov. 14--0n a sunny spring d;.:y four years ago, as red and yellow tulips pushed through the snow piled along the streets of Toronto, Thomas Glenn Jolley laid the foundation for a dilemma. that now confronts him and the governments of the United States and Canada. " 
He walked into the U.S. con­sular office in the Canadian city 
• and signed a formal declaration that renounced his American citizenship. The next day he mailed his selective service card to the draft board in his home town of Bremen, Ga., a small mill town near the Alabama state line. Included was a note: 
"Yesterday, I renounced my 

U.S. citizenship, thus terminating all obligations to the United States. I say 'obligations' with tongue-in-cheek because my concept of an obligation and yours are miles apart, several hundred in fact." 
Since that day Jolley, a soft­spoken, boyish reporter for the Tallahassee Democrat, has gone through a series of court battles back in this country to retain his citizenship on the grounds that his renunciation in 1967 was made under duress. The only legal way then left open to him to protest the draft and the war in Vietnam. 
"stateless .. alien 

But the U.S. Supreme court last week refused to hear Jolley's appeal and the immigration and naturalization service said he now has 90 days to leave this country or be deported. 
His present status, according to the immigration service, is that of a "stateless" alien, a man without a country. 
Since his passport is now in­valid, he would have difficulty acquiring a visa to another country, if he sought it. 
The American government, on the other hand, must find another country willing to accept Jolley before he can be deported. And because the deportation of a natural-born citizen is such a rare event in this country -a nation of immigrants -laws governing such procedures are 
ND seniors pinched 
by Tom Bornholdt 

Two Notre Dame seniors had a run-in with Elkhart Police this weekend. One was arrested for drunk and disorderly conduct, the other was held on in­vestigation of theft. 
According to reliable sources, the students involved had originally gone to Elkhart for a Senior Class party, Saturday night. After the party they left for a gym. There, one of the students lit up a cigarette in violation of a no-smoking sign. He was then arrested for "public in­toxication." 
Another student accompanied him to the police station. Ac­cording to reliable sources, a woman companion of the second student picked a policeman's cap up and hid it in the second 
_ student's car. She then informed the authorities where they could find it, after being questioned. 
This led to the arrest of the second student on "investigation of theft". According to Elkhart police, the second student was let 
• out of jail at 3:30 Sunday on bail, and his trial is scheduled for tomorrow. 
difficult to apply to this case. 
In fact, it now appears likely that Jolley can only be legally deported to Canada, a nation whose citizens enjoy free and unlimited travel in the U.S. 
"For all practical purposes," said a spokesman for the State Department, "if he was deported to Canada he would be free to come and go in this country as he pleases." 
s i m ila r 'c a s e s 

If Canada refused to receive Jolley, which it well might, he would remain indefinitely in his homeland, stripped of certain civil rights, and under the per­manent supervision, but not the custody, of immigration officials. 
Jolley's fate is sure to be followed with great interest by the thousands of young Americans who, like him, fled the 
U.S. after the onset of the war in Vietnam to avoid military ser­vice. There may be more than 30,000 of them living in Canada. 
The case may also set the tone, for a growing concept of general amnesty for all the young men of America whose lives have been ripped apart by the war. Ad­vocates contend that amnesty should be extended, without prejudice, to men like Jolley, who objected to the war on moral grounds, as well as to men like Lieut. William Calley. 
In his own words, Jolley is "sickingly normal, " a polite, meticulous young man, now Tl, who wears conservative pin­striped suits with vest, and is clean shaven. 
"When he first came to work here, and no one knew his background, he was just a shy little guy who didn't say a word to anyone," said Patricia Spillan, a member of the news staff of the Tallahassee Democrat, which Jolley joined 15 months ago. 
The Democrat refused to fire Jolley, despite some community pressure, when his appeal to the 
U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Ap­peals last spring prompted the first news stories about the "man without a country." 
Jolley has no criminal record although the government tried to prosecute him for draft evasion when he returned to this country in 1968. However, since he had renounced his citizenship at a time when he was still in good standing with the selective service system, and because he was technically an alien living in another country at the time his induction notice was sent out, the case was dropped. 
model citizen 

Jolley has since claimed that his renunciation was not voluntary since it was made under pressure from the draft, a conundrum the courts have refused to validate. 
In the one-bedroom apartment he shares with his wife, Margie, a graduate student in clinical psychology at Florida State University, he said: "It seems like they are equating citizenship with compulsory military ser­vice." 
Before going to Canada, he said, while still a student at the 

The Observer Local Insert Price List 
per 1000 (10,000 must be printed) 
2 page .•.................. $10.00 4 page ......-.............. $12.00 6 page ....................$14.00 8 page ....................$16.00 
12 & over pages ...........$20.00 
Pamphlet 
8 page ....................$12.00 
16 page ................•... $15.00 
24 page .....................$18.00 
30 & over pages ...........$24.00 Pre· p aym en t Req u ired • 
Call 7 471 for f u rth er in form ati on • 

SMORGASBORD 
Every Mo'nday 5-9 pm $1.25 All you can eat 
Every Wednesday evening . PITCHER 
zs••• $1.00 
NIGHT 

Every Friday night 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
Every Saturday night 
POLKA BAND·DANCING 
Open Weekdays 11 a.m. -1 2 p.m. 
LAUREL &HARDY 
PIZZA PALACE 
4ti1 0Western Ave. Belleville Shoppine: CiDter Phone 289-7083 
l.lniversity of Georgia, he app1ied proceedings. for status as a conscientious "He's a model citizen in every objector but was turned down Ly way and would be an asset to any his hometown draft board. . country. but this is his home and 
Jolley's attorney, Mrs. this is where he belongs," she Elizabeth Rindskopf of Atlanta, said. said she felt the Supreme Court's That was the way a lot of people recent rulings would qualify her used to feel about Thomas Glenn client for deferment today as a Jolley, even those in Bremen, conscientious objector, but the Ga., who in 1962 gave the government has failed to con-straight-A student its award for sider this in its deportation citizenship. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
One Electric Typewriter, good or (]real shape. Call Tom 287-2731. 
Need ride to K.C. Thanksgiving Friday Nov. 19. Rich 1254_ 
TAKE A FREAK HOME FOR THANKSGIVING: eed a ride to New York New Jersey area for Thanksgiving. Will share ex. penses and anything else. Please Call 8713. 
Need ride to LSU game. Will share expenses. Call 8076. 
DAYTON needs me for Thanksgiving. Don't let a good city down. Call Art 6724. 
Wanted: Books. Author, Reinhold Niebuhr. Call Jim 8952. 
Need a ride to or towards Greely Colorado for Thanksgiving. Call Chip 8256. 
WANTED · CAMPUS SALES REPRESENTATIVE. New patented line of hi-fi and audiophile speaker systems. This product has excellent sound reproduction and new, progressive styling. It is being offered for exclusive represen· tation on the Notre Dame campus. Hi-li system for demonstration is desirable. Please send resume to 
P.O. Box 62052, Indianapolis, Indiana 46226. 
3 riders wanted Phila., South Jersey. leave Nov. 19 · 3 pm. Call 
Don -8314. 
PERSONALS 
to the neil young freak and the girl from dallas: nobody was pissed, so everything is peaceful (sigh) love is like jello , there's always room for more. 

love, oblio and arrow. 
Gar, It's now legal I can kiss you. You're a whole 18 years old. 
Love and kisses, S-H. 
Lonely senior needs girlfriend to love and care for. Many fringe benefits. Call Phil 6872. 
T Bone, Exquisite cuisine, but expensive. Tantalus 
I love you My Lady of the Island Bert Lahr. 

Booger, Happy fiftienth -even if it be only days. 
Yes? Yes! 
S. 

i thought winter was coming earry. t11e Fates have it the other way. 
Bager 
NOTICES 
NEED MONEY? Morrissey Loan Fund 
Basement of La Fortune 
11:15-12:15. 

Call Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt's 
and Info concerning Viviane Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line, Endorsed by Harper's Bazaar. ·Available only through indiv. 
cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP 
LESSONS. 
Cleveland Club 
Thanksgiving Bus 
Call Gary 8150. 
Pitt Club Sign up and payment for Thanksgiving bus. Monday, Nov. 15,7:30. 9:00-La Fortune Center Room 2· D. Information call: John 232-2725, Steve 283-6756, Milo 283-6726. 
Organic food co-op_ Save money for your old age. 272-3285. 
Thanksgiving Buses to O'Hare Nov. 23 at 4:30 P.M., Nov. 24 at 
1:00 P.M. Return Nov. 28 at 10:00 
P.M. Tickets available at the First Bank Travel Office located in Badin Hall. 
OVERSEAS  JOBS  FOR  
STUDENTS.  Australia, Europe,  
S. America,  Africa,  etc.  All  

professions and occupations, $700 to $3,000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free in­formation -Write Jobs Overseas, Dept. F2, Box 15071, San Diego, CA_ 92115. 
St. Louis Club Thanksgiving Bus SalE'S. 
For reservations and information call Jim at 1061. Sign-ups this week, 7-9 in Roorn 164 Alumni. $20.00 rround trip. 
ARE YOU ON THE BUS? NO Ski Club's "THINK SNOW" party Friday Nov. at our off. campus "ski ledge" -2015 High St. 
Continuous ski flicks, beer, music, food, gluhwein!! 50 cents members $1.50 non-members. Info on Xmas Colorado trip. Bus leaves from Circle on half hour · 7:30. 
Lose Fabric? Check 8241. 
FOR SALE 
Barracuda, 1965, high per­formance, Air conditioning, nearly new tires, good body, runs beautifully, $450. 291-2596. 
For-Sale: '66 Ford Fairlane Cheap_ Must sell now any reasonable offer. Mike 6729. 
For Sale: Champaign Gold GTO. '67, Air cond., Power steering and brakes. 'His-Hers' transmission, tinted glass, black interior. Call and make bid. 289-7433. 
Unique personalized stationery·, the perfect Christmas gift tor that special so111eone_ Inquire by call 1167 or come see our vast selection at 611 Grace or 315 South Regina. 
For Sale . Shortwave . AM radio. Cheap. Call 8076. 
-·--------­
"LAW SCHOOL ··WILL I LIKE IT? CAN I MAKE IT?" A new book by a recent law graduate for 
prospective law students.  Send.  
$2.95.  Kroos  Press,  Box  3709A  
Milwaukie, Wis.  53217.  

Underground newspapers, books bought and sold. Pandora's Books. S.B. Ave. and N.D. Ave. 
LOST 
Lost: Notebook History of American Hemisphere. Call 8876. 
Words 1da. 2da 3da 4da Sda 
1-10 .65 .95 l. IS 1.35 1.55 11·15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21·25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.35 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.7S 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8. 95 









