
Middle America unite' 
A li~sky stressesaction 
by Greg Pudhorodsky 
Self-styled "radical" commu­nity organizer Saul Alinsky sighted the necessity of the in­volvement of the middle class for the preservation of a free and open society tn a speech last night in the Engineering Audi­torium. 
A Iinsky, the executive direc­tor of the Industrial Areas Foun­dation, initiated his talk by de­fining community organization as synonymous with citizen­power in the sense that powerShepherd says, "A-Okay!" UPI TELEPHOTO involves the ability to act, and this ability constitutes organiza­tion. Except for the possible exception of the political arena,

Apollo on path 
( UPl) -Apollo 14's astro­nauts, facing some night time detective work on a possibly we"k battery, fired a "wee small burp" with their biggest rocket Wednesday night and lined ur for moon orbit and a landing Friday. 
The six-tenths of a second firing lowered Apollo 14's path slightly so it would pass at an altitude of 69 miles behind the moon, the exact height needed to get into the proper lunar orbit. 
"Okay, we had a good burn," spaceship commander Alan B. Shepard told ground control shortly after the rocket was trig­gered at 9:01 p.m. (EST). 
Right after the burn, Stuart 
A. Roosa, the command ship pilot, said the new course has "got her (the moon) framed right in the hatch window." 
Unknown Cause Controllers did not find what caused the battery, one of two in the lunar lander, to be three tenths of a volt short of the preferred 37 volts. However, to lost no additional voltage during a 12 hour period, and this was a key point in the decision that it was safe to proceed with the landing. A further drop, would have indicated the battery was going down for some reason. Mission safety rules insist that both batteries must be working before the landing craft descends to the surface of the moon, although only one battery is necessary for ascent back to the Kitty Hawk. It was the second problem that in essence, solved itself a­
hoard Apollo 14. The first invol­
ved the docking mechanism and 
came to light when the astro­
nauts initially tried to link the 
command ship with the lunar 
lander. 
The astronauts had to make 
five passes at the Antares before 
finally getting docked. A later 
inspection of the docking probe 
showed it was working well, 
however, so officials ordered the 
mission to proceed. 
'Running Downhill' The third astronaut aboard this spaceship, Edgar D. Mit­chell, said that the moon seems "to be growing noticeably in size. We've reached that point 
the ddinition did not, in his thinking, entail a geographicalclimb into the lunar lander and organization.
check out a low battery reading In a brief outline of Americanthat was discovered when they culture as it presently exists,first inspected the lander earlier Alinsky envisioned Americans asin the day. 

Role of youth discussed 
N'.XQn promf"ses em borgo en .J !em, Bakan termed it "largely a 
q youth problem." He justified this statement by citing that theCongress desires news team age blacks 20,
median for is 
WASHINGTON (UP!) -The Nixon administration promised yesterday an early end to its news embargo on a major re­ported allied offensive against Communist forces in Laos, but the Senate Foreign Relations Committee is considering field­ing its own intelligence team overseas. 
With Congress in the fifth day of official silence about the situ­ation in Laos, Sen. J. William Fulbright, (D-Ark.), said he was "very receptive" to the idea of dispatching a staff fact-finding team to find out what is going on in Indochina and other crisis areas abroad. 
The idea was proposed by Sen Jacob K. Javits, (R-N.Y.). He suggested that the committee seek a big increase in its pro­jected $300,000 budget this year to develop its own sources of information rather than rely on the administration. 
Fulbright, who plans hearings early next week on the reported South Vietnamese thrust into compared with 27 for whites. 

sives in light of foreign policy Concluding his remarks, Bak­objectives. an stated, "The whole situation Without saying when, ad­is a Freud paradigm, a conflict 
ministration officials told news­of generations. The Oedipus men Wednesday that the news complex is going to march from blackout imposed here and in unconsciousness into conscious­Saigon last Friday would he ness. Oepidus is going to get lifted soon. killed, so is Laertes." 
\ \i . 
lion homes, they are only build­ing 1.5 million which will create a new social class, street people, "people who will not live in homes." 
While speculating that free 

public education will become 
very popular, Bakan stated that television will cause a change in 
the American system. "Because of televi·si·on you (youth) have
' become a potent political force 
for rapid change," he stated. 
"You can organize a united ac­tion without laborious educa­tion., He illustrated the idea with d
the spontaneous emonstrations 
after Kent State and the assassin­ation of Martin Luther King.
S .f. II th b
pec1 1ca y on e race pro ­presently facing the conflict of four simultaneous revolutions. Alinsky called the first of these a revolution of the have-nots, and he speculated that the answer calling for a substitution of non­materialisti..: values will not quell the unrest that arises from people lacking basic necessities. 

Alinsky combined the effects revolution of the "haves" and the revolution of modern tech­nology since they both have given birth to viewpoints that were unnecessary or nonexistent earlier in the century. 
The final conflict that Alinsky outlined was that which ap­peared after the relativity dis­coveries that spread from a beginning in the sphere in physics until many in the older generation came to believe that there were no longer any defini­tive values. 
The total effect that the four conflicts have created is, in Alin-• sky's words, "a time when crisis has become a cliche and every­thing from our generation to our credibilities has a gap." 

Turning his attention to the mechanics of solving the prob­lems of the urban communities, Alinsky stated that the power to ignite significant change does not reside in the minorities but rather the middle class, claiming that if one bases his conclusions on the criteria of value acce'p­tance rather than financial means, the middle class consti­tutes between 77% and 82% of our population. 
Using these facts as a base, Alinsky sighted the definite ad­vantage to the crusader in having the almost universal ability to relate to where the power is. 
Talking in the first person terms of "we" and "us", Alinsky further detailed a number of directions to those interested in community organization. One of the primary interests, he said, should be the establishment of an issue, that is, something which action can be taken on. Alinsky illustrated this point by sighting the futilities involved in setting up unattainable goals for "moral victories." 
Secondly, th~ organizer must use his tactics as a rationale for his motives, or as Alinsky stated it, "a crusader shouldn't look for 
(Continued on page 6) 

Wait till the 

monsoon season 
Wednesday marked the 62nd consecutive day the temperature in Boston was freezing or below, equalling a record set in 1948. 
Burlington, Vermont and Portland, Maine set new low temperature records yesterday with 25 below readings. The 
· coldest spot in the country was Massena, NY, where it was 28 below. 
Hancock, Michigan received another 30 inches of snow yes­terday, to raise the total for the winter to 160 inches. Yesterday was the 35th consecutive day in which it had snowed in Han­cock. 
by Ann Therese Darin 

"The generation gap has very powerful underlying economic and demographic factors," claimed Dr. David Bakan lectur­ing on "Youth as Citizens in 
Crils~s"t~~ S~p~:~~t, mp·~~~. of the 
Education Department's series on Contemporary Trends in Ed­
urcoafteiossno,r tdheescn~boerdk hUI_sni~'epressisti~
P 
mism" for the future of young adults, based on statisti..:s which show a 25% increase in the 
number of 18-24 year olds and a 50% increase in those 25-34. According to Bakan, these in­creases will effect unempIoy­
ment, housing, education, and politics. 

"1 do not believe unemploy­ment is temporary, but perman­ent," speculated Bakan. "Aprox­ima tely one-half of the people 
unemployed have never work-ed.n 
Bakan feels that automation, "a virtual conspiracy between labor and management," cuts off entrance into the labor force at 
the lower level. In light of this, 

he believes that the ddrugb prob­!em is partly create y the 
unemployment problem since so many young adults become pushers.
Bakan pointed out that in housing, although builders should be constructing 2.6 mil-

where we're running downhill southern Laos with U.S. air sup­Cambodia: Strike Force troops in armored personnel carriers guard highway as 24-truck convoy rapidly toward it." port, said the committee was not carrying fuel and oil approaches outskirts of Phnom Penh en route from coastal refinery at Kompong Before attempting a landing, getting the information it Som. This is the only convoy to make the 148-mile journey from the coast so far, since the official 
needed to review military offen-opening of Highway 4. UPI RADIOPHOTO
Shepard and Mitchell have to 
Page 2 
Thursday, February 4, 1971 
•




Faculty rev1ews Park-Mayhew report 
by Maria Gallagher Mayhew Report presented its own study to the SMC Faculty
The Faculty Ad Hoc Com-Assembly at its meeting lastmittee to review the Park­
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii~ Thursday evening. The report,
comprised of a statement and a 

featuring original works of graphic art-etchings, lithographs,-by leading 
20th  century artists:  
Picasso  Dali  
Miro,  Calder  

Chagall Friedlaendcr Searle Rouault Vasarely and others. 
Sun. Feb. 7th 
Ramada Inn 
Ballroom 
Auction: 3:00 Pl\.1 Exhibition: 1-3 PI\.~ 
Prices start as low as $15 Admission Free 
number of suggestions, was ap­proved by the entire assembly. 
The committee, composed of Professors Richard Detlef, Richard Hutcheson, Sr. Rose El­len Morissey, Donald Miller, Louis Tondreau, Elizabeth Noel, and Richard Pilger (chairman), submitted a critical analysis of the Park-Mayhew Report with commentary on the content and the questions raised by the re­port. 
The faculty statement agreed with the P-M Report in conclud­ing that St. Mary's and Notre Dame have "particular educa­tional strengths and uniqueness which, if shared, could benefit the young people on each cam­pus." It went on to say that St. Mary's could profit from the University's resources and vast educational facilities, and NQtre Dame would find the "humani­zing influence" of a small liberal arts college beneficial. 
However, the committee noted that the differing empha­sis of the university (which stresses research and graduate 
work) and an undergraduate 
college (which is structured spe­
cifically for an undergraduate 
study program) might be incom­
patible with respect to staffing, 
course offerings, financing, and 
even overall intellectual style. 
The report concluded that if there were a fusion of effort, SMC would have to be guaran­teed distinctiveness and be able to offer an undergraduate pro-· gram designed primarily for women. The committee rejected the Park-Mayhew merger sugges­tion because it did not feel that the "sense of community, hu­manizing influence, and per­sonalized attention of a faculty can be retained." 
On the whole, the Ad Hoc Committee found a number of ambiguities in the Park-Mayhew Report and offered a number of suggestions. It pointed out that men and women by nature are differently oriented and have different educational require­ments; a fact that Park-Mayhew does not even mention. 
It also recommended that the President of SMC ask the na­tional office of the American Association of University Profes­sors (AA UP) for an advisor on the issues of rank and tenure 

TO POSTER SIZE 
Send any black and while or
color photo, pola~oid print, 2FT X3FT$3SO 
cartoon or magazme photo. • 
~ir~~~Gi{J~:~e~ao·ni ~:g~~~: 1 '/2 FT. x 2 FT. $2.so 
l10n ... Perfect for parties. FT 
Poster mailed in sturdy tube. 3 . X 4 FT. $7.50 
Your original returned undamaged. Add SOc for postage handling for 
£ACH item ordered. Send check, cash or M.O. (No C.O.D.) To, 

PO BOX 589 NY 10010 NY 
0() 0 
0 
o 0 
raised by the report. 
In addition, the committee called for reciprocal arrange­ments for student dining, a co­exchange program of dormitory residence, and supported efforts to to facilitate increased social activity between SMC and NO students, recommending specifi­cally that the feasibility of a student union should be investi­gated immediately. 
The report also asked that since the duties envisioned by Park-Mayhew for the coordina­tor are essentially those of a dean, that the appointment should be subject to confirma­tion of the SMC Faculty Assem­bly. Finally, the report recom­mended that each academic department of SMC be retained, providing it is accomplishing its purposes. 

It was resolved that St. Mary's can best contribute to Notre Dame as a small, coeducational liberal arts college offering co­ordinate, but mainly, distinctive academic programs and a genu­ine commitment to developing the special talents of women to meet their needs in the contem­porary world. 
Dr. Glennen assumes associate dean duties 
Dr. Robert E. Glennen, Jr., will assume new duties as asso­ciate dean of the Freshman Year of Studies program at the Uni­versity of Notre Dame on Sep­tember l, it was announced to­day by Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., provost. He had been serving as assistant dean since joining the Notre Dame staff in 1966. 
Dean William M. Burke, who heads the freshman program, said Glennen will share many administrative responsibilities while continuing his activities as director of counseling. 
Glennea, the author of Gui­dance: An Orientation, is a na­tive of Omaha, Neb., and holds undergraduate and master's de­grees from the University of Portland as well as a doctorate from Notre Dame. He has held teaching positions at Eastern Montana State College, Ohio State University, the University of Portland and Montana State University. 

He has contributed articles to several national publications, in­cluding Catholic Educational Re­view, The School Counselor, National Catholic Guidance Journal, Sports Digest and Coach and Athlete. He holds membership in National Voca­tional Guidanc{! Association, College Student Personnel Asso­ciation, American Personnel and Guidance Association, Associa­tion of Counselor Educators and Supervisors, and American Asso­ciation of University Professors. 



Mardi Gras 
1971 
The <:arn ivai Opens Tonight! 
7:00 to 12:00 
(Those who have not yet redeemed their SOLD raffle books for their admission button may do so at the Carnival. Others will pay 25 cents per night to be o1dmitted or $1.00 for the button which will be good for the whole week.) 

Page 3 

ND historian edits book; 


Vatican I I effects noted 
Secretary_ of Defense Melvin R. Laird is questioned by newsmen after declarmg to the Senate Armed Services Committee that no American troops are being used in Laos, and that none will be. UPI 
Egypt extends truce, asks Israel withdrawal 
WASHINGTON (UPI) Egypt has decided to extend the Middle East ceasefire one month, according to reliable dip­lomatic reports reaching here late Wednesday. 
Tht: reports said that Egyptian President Anwar Sadat will in­form the Egyptian parliament today that the ceasefire will be extended by Egypt until March 5, provided the Israeli govern­ment announces during that time it is prepared to implement a U.N. Security Council resolu­tion calling on Israel to with­draw from conquered Arab terri­tory. 
The present Middle East c~asefire is due to expire Friday. 
The diplomatic report said Sadat also would declare that Israel should announce a specific timdable for withdrawal from the territories captured during the June, 1967 war. 
If Israel docs this, the report said. Egypt is prepared to con­tinue efforts to reach a peaceful settlement of the Middle East situation. 
If Israel fails to do so, "there 
will he no other course but 
NEWARK, N.J. (UP!) -Ne­gotiators for the Newark Teach­ers Union, NTU, and the Board of Education returned to the bargaining table Wednesday in an attempt to settle the violence marred teachers strike. 
The NTU had asked that May­or Kenneth A. Gibson sit in on the talks and a spokesman for the mayor said there was a "good possibility" he may attend at least some of the ses­sions, the first held since the strike began last Monday. 
Board of Education officials and Gibson met Tuesday night and prepared a new contract wage package which was present­ed to the NTU bargaining team. The union has demended higher wages, improved working con­ditions, smaller classes and an upgrading of school buildings. 
Although pickets appeared at about 35 of the city's 84 schools, a fear of further vio­lence and cold weather reduced their numbers to about three or four at many of the schools. 
A band of youths attacked 20 teachers Tuesday as they gathered outside NTU head­quarters to begin picket duty. No arrests have been made but liberation," in the view of Egyptian leaders, the report said. 
State department officials de­clined to make any comment on the matter. However, it was understood that a diplomatic note delivered by Egyptian offi­cials to the department early Wednesday announced the 30-day ceasefire extension but made no references to any con­ditions. 
The broadened concept of the 
Catholic Church endorsed by the 
Second Vatican Council will 
have an important effect on the 
work of historians of American 
Catholicism, according to a ·Notre Dame historian. 
Writing in an introduction to the book Catholicism in America which he edited, Dr. 1. Philip Gleason said the trend was away from the concern with tangible ecclesiastical organization which gave rise to the biographical "great bishops" approach to his­torical invt:stigation of the Church. 
In the old view, Gleason ob­serves, the Church was thought of as a "network of ecclesiastical units called dioceses and to write the history of one of these units was to record the past life of the Church in its local embodiment. To trace the expansion of di­ocesan jurisdictions was to tell the story of the Church's growth. Those who filled the administrative slots fo the hierar­chial structure were important by that fact alone ... Much of the span of the Catholic history in the United States is therefore woven jnto a sort of 'episcopal synthesis.' 
Conceding that the old meth­odology produced some classics, such as 1ohn Gil mary Shea's four-volume, History of the Catholic Church in the United States." and that the activities 
of the laity were never entirely overshadowed by institutional historians, Gleason nonetheless believes that the new ecclesio­logy will shape future historical studies. 
Implications are somewhat unclear, he warns, because, at least to non-theologians, such key notions as "People of God" are not clearly understood. "In some uses of the word the boun­daries of Church and world are so blurred that the Church would tend to disappear as a distinct object of historical study," he points out. He does, however, admit that, in place of the precision of the older meth­odology, one might find more comprehensiveness. "If the new ecelesiology stimulates historians 



Anti-laotian rally tonight 
A meeting to discuss possible responses to the alledged US invasion of Laos has been sched­uled for tonight at 7:30p.m. on the Second Floor of LaFortune Student Center. The meeting has been called by a group of Notre Dame Students and recent grad­uates living in South Bend, who hope to generate some type of local protest against what they termed "the Laotian invasion." 
A spokesman for the group indicated that the protest could come on many levels. "In addi­tion to protesting the invasion, which we believe is only a re­newal --on a somewhat larger scale-of actions taken previous­ly, we would hope to generate 
some response to the rather ob­vious censorship being exercised by Nixon, Laird and Abrams," he said. The "censorship" re­ferred to by the spokesman is the news embargo which has been placed on all of the north­ern sector of South Vietnam. 
In addition to discussion of
Teachers strike continues local responses to the current 
Indochina situation, the spokes­man indicated that there would the American Federation of be some discussion ._,f the Teachers offered a $5,000 re­People's Peace Treaty negotiated ward for information leading to conviction of the attackers. Two teachers remain hospitalized. 
Attendance declined for the second day at the schools, all of which have remained open. A school board official reported that only half of the city's 4,300 teachers and 33,000 of the 7 8,000 pupils appeared for classes. 
At the daily teachers briefing, Chris Larsen, president of the firemen's union, pledged his group's support and said firemen would walk picket lines with the striking teachers. 
"If the city gets away with what they're trying to do to you, they're going to do it to us," Larsen said. "We have to stick together." 
A spokesman for the NTU said deliveries to some of the schools had been stopped, in 
keeping with a pledge made by 

DIAMOND 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The 
6 PIONG DIA· 

$495 

MOND SET.•.... NOTRE DAME ACCOUNTS Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, 

DIAMOND ..••..

SOLITAIII•.......
Charles H. Marciante, head of 
the New Jersey AFL-Cio. Following the attack on the teachers, Marciante had prom­




lftlli
ised to halt delivery of all sup­plies, including heating oil, to *SOUTH REND school buildings. *MISHAWAKA 
BUDGET TERMS 
in Hanoi last December by stu­dents from the United States and North and South Vietnam. "We hope we can also generate some enthusiasm for the Treaty, and organize some actions around it as the semester goes on," the spokesman said. 
He added that at least one Notre Dame student, and possib­ly more, will be attending a weekend meeting in Ann Arbor, sponsored by the Midwest Peace Treaty Coordinating Committee and the United States National Student Association. The week­end conference is scheduled to deal with the Treaty and plan­ning for various proposed spring actions against the war. 

of American Catholicism to cast a wider net in their researches, 
the results ought surely to con­
tribute more significantly to the 
recovery of American religious 
history," he concludes. 
Catholicism in America, a col­lection of I 0 key monographs interpreting the relationship of Catholicism to American society and culture, was recently pub­lished by Harper & Row as part of its Interpretations of Amer­ican History series. 
Views sought on 
co-ed report 
In an attempt to solicit the general feeling of the campus concerning co-education and the Park-Mayhew Report, Father Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., Chair­man of the Coordinating Com­mittee, is asking for any expres­sion of opinion from interested parties in the Notre Dame com­munity. 
Sheedy hopes to receive a diversity of views on the subject, enough to cover all aspects of it. This would include "general or specific criticisms (of the Park-Mayhew Report), sugges­tion as to implementation, sug­gestions as to alternate approaches --in fact, any ex­pression at all." 
These statements will then by "synthesized, abridged, and con­solidated" so that they may be presented to the Trustees prior to their March meeting. Hope­fully coming from faculty, stu­dents, staff, and administration, these statements should be re­ceived by February II and pre­ferably they should be signed. They -should not exceed two pages and they can be mailed to: Rev. Charles Sheedy, C.S.C., Box 509, Notre Dame, Indiana. 



Founder. 
COllEGE NIGHT SPECIA Thursdays 5 pm · 11 pm 
All the Fish 
You Can Eat 

$1.15 



Thursday, February 4, 1971
THE OBSERVER
Page 4 DIRECTIONS 


1 package Jell-0 Gelatin 3 gallons hot water (140"-160") 



THE OBSERVER 
Dissolve contents of package In the hot water. Pour Into Individual molds or shallow pans. Chill until firm An Independent Student Newspaper 
-about 3 hours. Makes 3141 gallons or 105 portions, ¥.! cup each. 
HINTS AND TIPS 
To umnold: Dlr molds Just to Gelalln CUbel: Dl8801ve gel­
John E. Knorr, Executive Editor
Glen S. Corso, Editor -In -Chief 
the rim In bow of warm water atin as directed above; pour orInvert molds and hold under 'h to ~ Inch deep In ehallow running warm water. Shake pane. Chill unUI nrm. Cut In 
Bruce Rieck, Business Manager 

lightly to release gelatin. cubes with warm knife. Use In aalacla or d91188rt&
For ...Allloanl8: Uee 8 oz. (llll oup) Jell-0 Gelatin for 8plllldlng IIDanale.: Prepare All successful newspapers are ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. 
each quart of hot water. Gelatin Cu&es-as directed above. Then prepare an equal
For Quicker Preparation: Dis­
They never defend anything or anyone if they can help it; if the 
amount of another color andsolve contents of package In 1 flavor of gelatin; chill In shal­

job is forced upon them, they tackle it by denouncing someone 
gallon boning water. Measure low pan until very thick, but2 gallons finely crushed Ice;
or something else. 
not set. Arrange cubes on topadd cold water just to cover and chill until firm. Spoon IntoIce. Add to dissolved gelatin dishes. Garnish with fruit or

H.L.Mencken, Prejudices 
and stir until the Ice melts and whipped topping. 
mixture starts to thicken. Fruited Gelatin: Fold 1 to 2
Jingling Punch: Dissolve 1'h quarts of drained fruit (except pounds (3¥.! cups) Jell-0 Gel­
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
fresh or frozen pineapple) In­

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 
atin-any flavor-and 1'h 
to each gallon slightly thick­pounds (3¥.! cups) sugar In 2 ened gelatin. Chill until firm.

quarts hot water. Add 2 cups 
Last General Assembly of Students Before Final Toll 
The myriad of Student Government mouthorgans have been rendered silent at a most inopportune time. On the heels of the Park-Mayhew report, the Senate has been shut aown by the willfullness of the Student Body President; the Student Life Council has stuffed itself full of Caruso reports on Sophomore cars and other such minutae and hence has rendered itself practically inoperative. The Hall President'~ Council continues to consider the things that the Hall President's Council always considers: parties, room selection and similar hooplah. The Student Government Cabinet appears to be incapable of any analysis of Park-Mayhew more profound than the intimation that it is bovine excrement. 
It is, perhaps appropriately, students unconnected with poobahism in any form who have come up with intelligent criticisms of and viable alternatives to the Park-Mayhew report. Thunder and Conway's report, while by no means complete, adequately addresses itself to the problem that this University must surmount. Elsewhere on campus, students suddenly becoming aware of the fact that if the findings of Doctors Park and Mayhew are adopted by the Board of Trustees this University might not have coeducation for five or ever1 ten years, are looking feverishly for ways to vent their objections. Finally, those students who do believe that the report offers an acceptable future for the University are becoming increasingly disquieted by the vague and general air of unhappiness the aforementioned student government bodies have vaguely and genrally projected towards the report. 
The General Assembly of Students, a con~pt that was cooked up three years ago when people in Student Government began to realize that they weren't reaching the students, has never been more needed than it is needed now. The Trustees of this University must learn that students are not indifferent to the situation and to the consequences of Park-Mayhew; above and beyond that, they must learn that students here know what kind of co-educational program they want and are willing to work to see that program instituted. 
There are two things that could destrov the General Assembly of Students and hence destroy atiy · opportunity of convincing the Board of Trustees that Park-Mayhew is not the desire of the Student community. The first is a failure on the part of student government to offer just and dynamic leadership. The kind of obnoxious confusion that charach terized the strike just won't do this time. The students have too high a stake; no position can be shunted aside; final resolutions must be handled and approved in an above board and altogether honest manner. Once the final resolutions have been approved, however, Student Government must persue their objectives with the vigor we have come to expect of the Krashna Administration. The second is a failure on the part of the student body to offer just and dynamic participation. If the student body stays away from the General Assembly in droves, it has condemned that assembly. Eight Student Poobahs could be guided by the spirit of the late Hon. Thomas Jefferson, but it would matter not one whit unless they had the spirited backing and considered judgement of a large portion of the student body behind them. Likewise, .if in a desperate desire to see thei~ opinion prevail students use the unfair and perverse tactics which always s.~em to pervail m large assemblies the Trustees will rightly judge that the General Assembly of Students was in reality a specific Assembly of assertive mobsters. There is no guarantee that the General Assembly of Students will succeed if it follows those guidelines. Nor is there a guarantee that the resolutions of the General Assembly wm gain acceptance. But there is a guarantee that if those guidelines are ignored not only the General Assembly of Students but a whole lot of attempts to articulate student opinion in the future will be crippled. And that is a most permanent guarantee. 
The UPI Fanclub 

Night editresses: Mary Chris Morrison Ann Conway HeadliPes: Jim Roe 
Layout: Daniel V ., Joe Abell 
Night Control: John Knorr 
of lemon juice, 2'h quarts Whipped Gelatin: Whip slight­canned pineapple juice, and ly thickened gelatin 10 to 12 2'h gallons cold water. Chill minutes at medium speed until until ready to serve. Pour over fluffy, thick, and doubled In crushed Ice In gla8ees. Makes bulk. Chill until nrm. Serve with 4 gallons. fruit or whipped topping. 
Mark Winings===============================~,;================================================================ But Sir, Won ·t that Spoil my Appetite ?. 
In her hundred year march to Shibboleth, Our Lady has consistently demonstrated her willingness to accomodate change. This fa';t is often contested by faculty and students alike, and as a result much criticism is unjustly heaped upon the virgin's golden shoulders. I myself have been guilty of this and, due to some rather belated reflection, would like to offer personal amends via this article. Now it is true that the redoubtable custodians of our institution have often asked either Dave or myself to "set the record straight" with the students concerning their sincerity, but this is not what motivates me. For although all who read this will undoubtedly have second thoughts about the caliber of our stewards, I write, primarily, to assuage my conscience. It is tough to admit to one that you've been wrong, but -in the words of a distinguished trustee ­that is the mark of a "mature student statesman." And that's just what I've always wanted to be. I could, of course, harp on incidentals. But as I am not receiving 
$25,000 for this effort, I will stick to essential matters -two to be exact. They presage perhaps the most far-reaching and innovative changes yet seen at domersville. and that is not beans (though they 
are involved.) To be explicit: Our University, here referring to Herr Burtchaell and Company (incorporated -in Christ), have decided, after much agonizing deliberation, that we-the students and faculty -have not been eating well. They rightly perceived that our complexions are this year anemic, our activities less than strenuous. And so, from the gilded throne, has come a compassionate edict to those whose business it is to keep us fed (our feeders) -change the menu! (Those present this summer will note that a dietary change was initiated at , coincidentally, the same time our hierarchy was shaken up to appease the populist rabble.) 
It is on this change of fare that I am complimenting our bureaucracy, for along with it went another (the second) change. Our spoons were shelved in favor of shovels. One must not only eat well, but plenty. And the results have been both manifest and manifold, for since September we have eaten: racism, prejudice. intolerance, stupidity, civil rights violations, lies and just today, a loving spoonful of double-think paternalism. For you see. the students didn't really know what they wanted in the realm of academic intluence. But Reverend Burtchaell dill, and by his munificence we are provided for. 
Which brings me to the question many have been voicing for some time: Have you had enough to eat'! If the answer is no, fear not. The pantries are bursting and the shovels are stock-piled to the roof of the building of Administration. And if we aren't uP for a hHssle. we can still take solace in the paradigm conversation overheard just 
yesterday in the golden tmnK ta11K; • 
"But---. this is shit you're feeding them." 
"Sure, but it's really great shit" he replied. 
If, however, you're tired of this barnyard shuffle we have been participating in -in the SLC, in the Provost's office, in the faculty dismissals -then get angry and inspired enough to do something about it. This is the purpose of the General Assembly of students which is to be held February 16, 17, and 18, 1971. Yout diet may suffer, but your conscience will rest easier. Which brings us back to why this article was written. 
Thursday, February 4, 1971 Page 5

THE OBSERVER. 
Rev. Robert Griffin 


Darby O'Gill 
On February 3rd, 1970, a litter of cocker spaniels was born at the Bijidale Kennel in South Bend, sired by a stud named Dusty and whelped by a dam called Pupper. The runt of tile litter, and t'1e only male, was a tiny ball of pedi­greed fur afterwards known as Darby O'Gill. 
Of Darby's earliest days, I can tell you nothing except that I first saw him on the Seventeenth of March, St. Patrick's Day, when he was still wobbly in the hind !1aunches; and compared in weight and size to his sisters, he looked as pitiable as a slum-child asleep in the snow. Two weeks later, I broug!1t him home to Keenan: even ti-J.en, he weighed only t!1ree pounds, and he cost fifty dollars. I had to 
borrow the fifty from a friend; t'le debt was later re-paid from a gift of money presented to the Rector by the Kee11an buckaroos at their annual :fall banquet. Originally, I had intended to call the pup Brian Boru, after the great Irish king who, a thousand years ago, swept the invading Danes into the sea; but a New York Irishman, Mike Doran, persuaded me to christen the stout-hearted, floppy-eared mite after Darby O'Gill, tl-te hero of a book of short stories, Oarbv 0 'Gill and t 1ze Little People, which Mike had onced fetched home for me from the library. 
Almost enough has been written in these pages of the iife and times of O'Gill; of Darby's recent history I would like to mention only the incident last May when a directive thundered forth from the office of the Dean of Students: "Get rid of the dog!" The crux of my eventually 
successful appeal to Fr. McCarragher was this: Darby O'Gill is important to me not only as the pet to a celibate fearful of loneliness, or as a mascot to a hall community of bachelors who, if the choice were given, would rather see an Ali McGraw scampering around their Rec­tor's room, nipping at his kneecap, t'un all the O'Gill's in creation. Darby is important, I said, (using the nearly-pur­loined metaphor, "No dog is an island.") as a bridge between people...principally, between me and t!l.e two hundred people I mig'1t, for example, meet in an after­
noon's walk on the ':)uad. 

As one who is trying to serve this campus as chaplain, I lack aggressiveness in making friendships: I suffer from shyness, and from a social retinence learned in a New England childhood. When I speak, often my voice is too low to be clearly heard, my syllables somer­sault into spoonerisms, and my speec!l. is slurred by the regional accents of the ':>own-Easter (a fact my boss, Fr. Toohey, once pointed out to me, but I pleaded with him to have the amplifying system in the Main Church renovated anyway. I really wish you would, Bill.) For all I know, I may even be suffering from a speec:1-impediment, because the '1ome­folk don't always understa::d me, either. Moreover, sometimes, when spoken to, an ancient ailment of hearing prevents me from knowing that a friend :1as passed, or the a stranger has offered his greeting. 
On the other hand, a Roman collar is not a guarantee of instant friendship on this campus. Chaps with tl-J.eir dates some­times speak only grudgingly, or not at all, to a priest, symbol that he is )fa religious 
establishment, corrupt and rerressive. 

Occasionally, I am exposed to the aliena­tion one human being feels for another; one is sometimes disliked, for example, because he is considered too bearded or too hippie, or because it is dimly suspect­ed !1e is suffering from overweight. 
1nto these communication-gaps steps my little Darby O'Gill: he is my word of greeting to all of Notre Dame; he is my shelter from the lleglect of strangers I do not dare intrude upon. He makes friends with people from whom, of myself, I could not get the time of day; and if I am quick enough to follow up his lead, I am at least able to register the fact that I am more articulate than a stuffed teddy-bear, before the little charmer dances off to get his ears scratcl1ed by some otl1er turned­off type, perhaps the campus atheist. Doubtlessly, the mop-sized young lecher 
(in  his  imagination,  alas,  the  beast  is  
sinning  constantly)  earns  his  share  of  
critics,  too-for  me  and  for  himself-­ 

especially when he appears, grungy, un­announced, and without money, at the snack bar of t!l.e Huddle, or under the supper tables of the North Dining Hall. 
It seems weak, perhaps, in a man, to use a dog as an extension to his own personality; actually, the dog has a per­sonality of his own and he thinks of me (i believe) as an extension of himself: some­
one to answer the phone for him when the children call, or to write thank-you notes for the bones he receives in the mail. 
Last Fall, for example, he disappeared from the University for several days. The South Bend Tribune took note ~.:>f the fact, and the local television station men­tioned his departure on the news. Calls came from all over the city, and from as far away as Gary, from Darby-lovers everyw!l.ere; and there was weeping, I am told, in the convents of Peoria, Illinois. Even Fr. Hesburgh took time out to inquire--all this disturbance because one little mutt had gone out without his collar on, and was instantly seen and fallen in love with as a derelict, and was taken home as a companion for life by a 
campus visitor. All my life, practically, I have gone out on this campus without my collar on --never once have I been taken home as a companion, not even for an evening; and I would dearly love to know when it was that the Chairman of the Civil Rights Commission was ever con­cerned about my whereabouts. I am sure that he :1as been concerned, of course; I would just like to know when it happen­ed. 
Afterwards, when Darby re-appeared after three days like Johah from the belly of the fish, some of the Keenan Hall disciples insisted that the Parable of the Prodigal Son be read at the Mass, and Dave Kozeny, the Sunday guitarist, got the little gadabout drunk on Cold Duck at a coming-home party. 
Last Sunday, Darby O'Gill, son of Pupper and the late Dusty (carried off, last Spring-time, by the angels to that Great Kennel beyond the stars), cele­brated :1is natal day by hosting a party of birthday cake and hot chocolate to the children '1e madly loves at the Urchins' :Mass. The only other event planned for the O'Gill nativity is tl-J.is: next week the Birthday-beast will visit a puppy farm where, it is hoped, he will soon be beginning a family of his own. 

Some new, wierdo shows on the tube 
As America's silent majority begins to make itself heard, thru the rallies of the hardhats and the larynx of the Vice-Pre­sident, Hollywood is beginning to sit up and take notice. Although film moguls aren't saying it out loud, many of them have begun to feel that they have been ignoring this segment of the public for too long. With an air of urgency, pro­ducers on the coast are lining up features that will tell the story of The Forgotten American. Here are some projects already under way that you can expect to see next season at your neighborhooll theater. 
The Apple-Pie Statement: From the diary of Armstrong Merri well, a college football player, fraternity man, and 
R.O.T.C. cadet. When rowdy radicals at Mainstream U. take over the administra­tion building and threaten to close down the school, Armstrong singlehandedly saves his alma mater's reputation, to distract the flock of newsmen on campus he stages a one-man panty raid on a girl's dorm, swallows 31 goldfish on the steps of the library and stuffs IS T.V. camera­men into a telephone booth. He is elected President of the Alumni Association for his heroic service and marries Ginger Rogers. 
The Alumnus: A young man, recently graduated from l1igh school, is feted by his struggling family and neighbors at a block party. For this very. special acca­sion, his family spends beyond its means, providing a spread of bologna, boiled potatoes, and black-cherry soda. During the feast, an aunt marvels at how fresh the bologna is. When Mama says, "I owe it all to saran wrap," the alumnus decides that his future lies in plastics. He joins a large chemical company as an assistant to the mail clerk, rises swiftly to the presi­dency and marries Ginger Rogers. 
Comfortable Rider: The adventures of a retired wrestling tag-team who travel the length and breadth of America in a red-white, and blue stripped station wagon, doing their part to rid the country of the dread marijuana weed. Their search-and-destroy mission comes to a tragic end when I 2 hippies, traveling incognito as gypsies, pretend to lead them to the largest marijuana crop in the midwe~t. Unable t9 distinguish between the evil plant and corn stalks, the two patriots set off a conflagration (fire) that 
Senior Fellows 

Saul Bellow belongs to that group of Jewish American n.::Jvelists which includes Bernard Malumud, Philip Roth, and John Barth. A Canadian by birth, Bellow attended. the University of Chicago and did graduate work at Northwestern Uni­versity. He has taught at the University of 
Minnesota and  presently  teaches  at  the  
University of Chicago.  
Mr.  Bellow's  first  novel  was  The  

Danf(!inf( Man ( 1944), and has been followed by The Adventures of Augie March, Henderson, the Rain King, and his latest work, Herzog. In I 953 and again in 1965, :VIr. Herzog won the National Book 
Award for Fiction, and in 1965 won the International Literary Prize. 
James MacGregor Burns is best known for his work The Deadlock of Demo­cracy, a book on the United States Congress that describes the evolution of the liberal and conservative elements within both political parties. As a histo­rian and political scientist, Mr. Burns' talents were employee! by President Kennedy as an advisor on political stra­tegy in the party system. Mr. Burns has lectured on American History tluoughout the States and in Russia. He has serve.d on the Hoover Commission, has written books on Roosevelt and Kennedy, and presently is a professor in the political science department of Williams College. 
destroys Iowa, Nebraska, and thru a freak change of wind Rhode Island. 
Woodstock Revisited: After a disgrace­ful rock festival ravages an old man's farm, Boy Scout Pack 139, led by Hunt7 Hall, moves in. They clean up the land, arrange for a• government subsidy to enable the farmer to live comfortably by not growing barley, and promote a music festival for the youth of the nation. Young folks keep pouring in by the thousands to see and hear Gene Autry singing, "I'm back in the saddle again," Kate Smith doing "When the moon comes over the mountain," and the Andrew Sisters performing "Bei Mir Bist Du Schoen." At the end of the movie, the old farmer addresses the crowd, by now numbering 14 million, and tells them that they are the future America. The boys and girls link arms and sing "For he's a jolly good fellow." The farmer marries Ginger Rogers. 


Thursday, February 4, 1971 

Cancer relief linked to peppermint marijuana 
similar research. 

WASHINGTON (UPI) ­"He didn't want to give us
Eight patients dying of cancer in this study," Blaine said. "The
an unidentified medical center place where he was didn't want
showed some temporary relief of any research nf this kind being
symptoms while taking daily done. I can only guess it's he­
doses of peppermint extract, the National Institute (Jf Mental cause a lot of people would be morally opposed to using this
IIealth said Wednesday. kind of thing on patients.'' The doctor who headed the study refused to be identified. Blaine said all eight patients does not plan to publish it and volunteered and signed consent was reluctant even for NIMH to 
forms. describe his findings, said Dr. 
"Minimal ill effects wereJack D. Blaine of the institute's noted and potential therapeuticCenter for Studies of Narcotic effects were demonstrated."
and Drug Abuse. 
Blaine said the investigator re­All the patients are still expec­ported in a letter. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
A I insky lecture ted to die. But during the short time they drank the extract, in As ian policy
t live Entert?in ment (Continued from Page 1) 
some cases their depression de­
a cross to bt• crucified on, he 
creased, appetites picked up and
t Wed. to Sat. Dancing should he having fun ...self­
smaller doses of pain killer were recture tonight
interest if pursued always leads 
needed; Blaine said. The extract
to community interest." Prof. Robert Gavin Boyd of 
was similar to the substance in

1 c:ht 
A final clue to community the St. Mary's Political Science
Mil<ado marijuana cigarettes that may
organization <H.:cording to Alin­Department will deliver a lecture 
t 
t 
"THE ENTERTAINER TO THE MIDWEST" sky, was the necessity that the cause "highs" among smokers. on "Soviet and Chinese Policies 525 North Hill Street Establishment live up to their Blaine referred briefly to the toward Southern Asia" tonight SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46619 own rules. As an example, he study in the government's first at eight o'clock in the Area t 
posed the question, "Can you annual report to Congress Mon­Studies Reading Room of the 
./1 ttended Parking imagine the effects of asking the day on marijuana and health. In Memorial Library. Christian churches to actually be 
a footnote, Blaine said the study
t In the Rear The speech is being sponsored
Christian'?" was reported to him in a "per­by the ND SMC Academic
t Closing with a warning that sonal communication, author's Commission, the Asian StudiesTHURSDAY NIGHT IS UNIVERSITY NIGHT the middle class and their subse­name withheld at his request."
t Program, and the Committee on
quent power will not remain Blaine said in an interview International Relations. Prof.
static Alinsky said, "if people
t Boyd was formerly a visiting
Everyone's Wdcome don't have the power it will go that he considered the research t into the hands of demagogues valid but preliminary. ''I hope 
professor at Notre Dame and a somebody will do something like 
pr0fessor of political science at
Happy Hour S-9 Daily and dictators...if they don't go
t Halifax College in Nova
it. I'm excited about it." But he 
t 
All beverages $.60 our way they will go the way of during Happy Hours a Wallace.'' said he knew of no plans for Scotia. 
WANT TO SEND YOUR LADY LOVE OR BEAU A MESSA.GE THAT WILL BE PRESERVED FOREVER 
~ IN THE N.D. ARCHIVES? 
, 


TAKE OUT AN ()BSERVER 
VALENTINE AD SI.CO FOR TEN 

Stop by the Fiesta Lounae Monday Wednesday or Friday from 2:00 to 5:00 or 
S E N 0 Y 0 U R 1\1 E S SA G E T 0 G E T H E R IJV IT H P A Y M E N T T 0 : T H E 0 B S E R V E R , P.0 . B 0 X 11 , N 0 T R E 0 AM E , tr11 D . \\\~ Please be sure to put a stamp on your envelope, all mail without fJroper postage will be refused. 
ij:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;;;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::~:~::::: 
.--------------------~~---~--­
Thursday, February 4, 1971 THI!. OBSERUER. Paqe 7 
Best performance wins for frosh 
center Larry McNeill across the
by Joe Passia tore we had only two previous days to ten points, 78-68. John Shu­man Shumate. John was the 
forehead with 0:57 left in the
of practice and we weren't real games leading scorer with 27
Observer Sportswriter mate was very instrumental in game. McNeill's attempted retali­
sharp. Actually, we should have _points along with 13 rebounds.
The Notre Dame freshmen this surge as he hit two inside ation resulted in the ouster of
won that game," stated O'Con­Coach O'Connor, when asked
basketball team turned in a jumpers and threw a full court both players.
nor. who won the Shumate-McNeill
physical performance Wednes­pass to Kenny Wolbeck for an 
Notre Dame never trailed in battle, asserted, "I thought that
day night and overpowered pre­easy lay-up. Contributing factors to Mar­
the ball game and with 8:48 left downfall the when John was in the game, he
quette's included in the first half the baby Irish Marquette put on the full was the dominating force. Weviously undefeated Marquette, 
93-84. The Leprechauns reverted nifty passing of back court 
court press with 2:30 left in the ace 
to some awesome rebounding had opened up a 29-15 lead. At Bob Valibus. Valibus, dealing off don't like to 1ook at the game. this point, the Warriors threw a game, but O'Connor countered passes and assists like a slick card from an individual standpoint,
and plenty of inside muscle for a half-hearted full court press at by inserting guard John Corneli­shark, set up several easy buck­but, yes, I though John out­
performance that prompted 
the Irish and by virtue of a few us to aid Valibus in bringing the played McNeill."
ets for the Irish freshmen. Thecoach Tom O'Connor to say Notre Dame turnovers reduced hall up. With Gary Novae domi­Valibus -Novae combinationdefinitely best
"This was our their deficit to a 4740 halftime nating the offensive boards and The Leprechauns will have the
was particularly effective as theyeffort of the season_ We kind of 
score. Hot shooting guard Mar­Shumate hitting everything the opportunity to be spoilers again 
clicked for several baskets ingave up on finesse, but were 
cus Washington, and 6'8" Larry Irish stretched their lead to the close. this Saturday when they meet playing good competitive ball. 
McNeill kept Marquette in the final 93-84. Shumate was hitting Creighton's undefeated fresh­
The refs let them go early in the everything to the extent that he men. The freshmen record
game with 9 and 14 first half Then there was the impressive now game and both teams went at it 
points, respectively. apparently caught Marquette performance of the Irish pivot-stands at 6-3. 
pretty well." 
The first half witnessed some

Marquette, now Il-l, came NOTRE DAME MARQUETTE
spirited efforts by the Lepre­
out in the first half with a slow, FG FT REB PTS
chauns, "We got what we like to
deliberate type offense which Novak 8-21 4-6 14 20 Vollmer 3-7 4-7 6 10
call a lot of hustle baskets," said
the Irish combated with an ag­Wolbeck 3-11 1-1 5 7 McNeill 12-19 0-1 13 24
O'Connor. "And the first ten
gressive man to man defense. Shumate 11-18 5-8 13 27 Wade 6-15 2-3 4 14
minutes of the game was the
0 'Connor attributed the success Valibus 6-10 3-7 2 IS Friedrich 3-4 0-0 0 6
best basketball we ever played."
of the Irish defense simply to Stevens 4-7 9-11 9 17 Washington 10-26 2-5 8 22 the fact that Notre Dame was in Marquette opened up their Schmelzer 2-5 2-2 2 6 Raymond 2-10 0-0 9 4 better sht•.pe than the last time offense in the second half, when Hinga 0-0 0-0 0 0 Nonhof 0-0 0-0 0 0 the two teams met, Marquette the Warriors closed to within King -0-0 0-0 0 0 Lindman 0-0 0-0 I 0 winning 79-68. "We didn't do 69-64; with 8:01 left in the Cornelius 0-0 1-1 2 1 Miller 2-4 0-0 0 4 anything different, we just seem­game. Bob Valibus then hit from ed to be working together bet­20 feet to key an Irish spurt TOTAL 34-72 25-36 47 93 TOTAL 38-85 8-16 41 84 ter. In the first Marquette game which saw them up their margin 
NO shot 47%. MU shot 45%. NO had 24 turnovers. MU had 19 turnovers. 
JIM MURRAY 

Sports Parade 
•




Home for 
Tom Seaver •IS pat1ent 
by Milt Richman Like everybody else, Tom Seaver?" Seaver likes to get what he feels "Yup."
UPI Sportswriter NEW YORK-Ballplayers are he's worth. That doesn't neces­"Like sayfor whom?" just like women. They're com­sarily make him money hungry. "Johnny Bench," Scheffing @ 1971, Los Angeles Times 
parison shoppers. "Monetary compensation goes laughed. Only the way they do it is a hand in hand with what you do Tom Seaver is a realist. ·He 

the Aged 
One of the troubles with the United States of America is, it has 
little different. They shop on the field," he said. "I have probably would make the samenever known what to do with its aged. It pushes them down to St. 
around and one way or another always felt I wanted to be as deal as Scheffing, if he were the
Petersburg or Long Beach or Leisure World and hands them a rrianage to find out how much good a pitcher a humanly pos­Met's general manager.
Panama hat or a shuffleboard stick and lets them doze in the sun. We have had various plans for them over the years-the Townsend money the top man at their sible." "It's an honor to be men­particular position earns. Then That means the best. It also tioned with Johnny Bench."
plan, the Sinclair plan, and the George Mclain movement. 
they get more. means the best paid. Seaver said. 
But now George Allen has opened up a whole new career for Baseball's highest paid pitcher Seaver came to terms with Jqhnny Bench hasn't even
senior citizens. No longer need they weave baskets or sort castoff 
Bob Scheffing, the Mets general talked contract with Cincinnati
is Bob Gibson of the St. Louis manager, shortly after left­yet. He will pretty soon but he'sclothing or even baby-sit the grandchildren. There are openings for 
retired people in the Washington Redskins' defensive backfield. Cardinals. He's getting $150,000 
hander Jerry Koosman also did. not letting himself get carriedGeorge has just traded for the entire linebacking corps of the Los this year and that also makes A number of inquiries for Koos­away by all those free spendersAngeles Rams, three players whose ages this season will be 35 (Jack him the No. I individual money earner in the majors right now. man's services were made by who already have designated him Pardee), 33 (Maxie Baughan) and 32 (Myron Pottios). All but other clubs during the major baseball's first $200,000 player.
Pottios had retired to the carpet slippers and hot-water bottle at But that's merely incidental as far as other pitchers are con­league meeting in Los Angeles Bench is 23, and has put in only least once. 
two months ago, but nobody three full seasons with the RedsThe Washington backfield is now officially Sun City East. Instead cerned. All they really care bothered asking the Mets about so he isn't in that much of a
about is that he's the top paid
of their position numbers, the players will wear their social security• 
Seaver. rush.
pitcher and his salary gives them
numbers. Lawrence Welk will do the halftime shows and, in the 
"Does that mean you "I've got time," he said. 
an automatic yardstick with
locker rooms, the pinups of Requel Welch will be replaced by Mae wouldn't even have listened to "Why does everything have to
measure own
West and Lillian Russell. On tl-te team bus the squad will sing a which to their 
earnings. any offer for him?" Scheffing be right now?"
medley of Civil War songs. 

Tom Seaver, the major was asked. Johnny Bench and TomGeorge Allen, as a coach, has never ceased to be astonished that league's Pitcher of the Year in "Not at all," said the Mets' Seaver have two things in com­you could get real live football players for peices of paper. He knows 
but not in general manager. mon.
1969 quite 1970,
t'lat other staffs are dazzled hy the prospect of draft choices the way signed his 1971 contract with "You mean you'd deal Patience and good sense. 
savages used to be for beads. George scatters draft choices like 
the New York Mets Tuesday. 
confetti. 

Despite the fact his 18-12
His philosophy is simple: It ta"k:es five or more years to make a 
record wasn't up to his 25-7 

Swimmersdunked
"pro," i.e., a man who will make only one or no mistakes a game. 
performance of the year before,
George would just as soon let some other franchise endure that first four years of mistakes which blood a player. 
the good looking 26 y<!ar old times, and two of these were at History is on !1is side. A scanning of the Rams' first draft choices righthander got a boost in Last Saturday, the Notre the hands of super-soph Gene in recent years dredges up such all-timers as Billy Cannon, Terry salary to $91 ,000. Dame swimming team picked up Krathaus in the 50 and I00 free. Baker, Rufus Gut'uie, Bill Munson. Allen attaches so little weight to That still pegs him at least its worst defeat in the teams The other first was freshman fourth on the pitchers' list. Gib­history. The Irish were smashed Mike Kilpatrick in the I000.
draftees, he dealt off Jim Seymour, a first draft selection, for a taxi-squad lineman last year. son comes first, then Juan Mari­83-30 by Ball State, and humi­"I hope we can get it back in The Rams' trading record is c''·-'nsiderably better than their chal and Denny Mclain, both of liated 90-22 by Illinois State. gear this week," said sophomore drafting record. They got several ~ra::k years out of supposedly whom are already in the The Irish couldn't get it in John Balthrop. "We have to face 
$100,000 bracket. Sam gear Saturday. Some speculated a very tough team from Michi­
over-the-hill Imemen like Roosevelt Grier, Roger Brown, and Maxie due of
Baughan. Allen considered that luring Pardee, Baughan, and Eddie McDowell and Dave McNally that it was to the loss gan this Thursday." 
also may be ahead of Tom when some of the team's "big guns", ~---~~~~~~Meador out of retirement was considerably more of a feat than John (apendectomy);
dipping into the NFL lottery and coming up with nothing. they finally get around to inking Sherk t Film of 1970 t
Frank Fahey (Innsbruck); Mike When you consider the Rams came up with VMI quarterbacks, their contracts. 
Tom Seaver, who looked like McDonough (ear troubles); and
Vanderbilt halfbacks, and scatter-arm Heisman Trophy winners­t Notre Dame f
John Cox to graduation. Captain 
none of whom could make the team-in the days when only a a cinch to win 30 games the dozen teams were carving up the existing talent, Allen wonders why early part of last year, makes no Jim Cooney speculated that it t Football f 
was due to a "psyche-out fac­
you should have faith in an expansion era when your "first round secret of the fact he's shooting caused team's
draft choice" might be the 26th player chosen. to become the highest paid pit­tor," that the I Highlights I
powerlessness.
cher in all base ball. beat two teams"The Rams now have a lot of draft choices but no linebackers. The 
Washington Redskins have a generation gap. They should change the "Obviously, I would like that "To these f Tonight f
said sophomore breaststroker,
distinction," he said at Tues­
name to the Washington Skinheads. The country might be giving the 
& 7 pm & 9 pm

Bill McEvoy, "we would have to
day's signing session. "You're
kids the vote, but George is bucking the trend. He doesn't trust 
post best times in every event." ' Walsh Hall Basement f anyone under 30-not backing up his line anyway. If he had the not going to do it in four years. 
But as it turned out, the Irish
rights to Jim Plunkett, he'd probably deal them for George but I feel I have a chance to f Adm. : 50 cents t 
could only master three best
Blanda-or George Plimpton. reach it some day." ·~~~~~~~----· 
Page 8 THE OBSERVER Thursday, February 4, 1971 


Explosion racks chemical plant 
WOODBINE, Ga. (UPI) -A concrete building where military flares were assembled exploded in a ball of fire and a mushroom cloud of smoke yesterday killing at least 23 persons and injuring nearly 70 more. 
Hours after the blast, felt 50 miles away from the 7,000 acre Thiokol Chemical Corp. plant here, reports of the dead still conflicted. 
The company, in a terse state­ment issued from its Bristol, Pa., 
headquarters, said 23 were dead, one was missing and 42 injured. But hospitals in the south Geor­gia coastal area reported they alone had 42 injured, and 26 more were taken to hospitals in Jacksonville, Fla., 40 miles away. 
Five persons were dead on arrival at Georgia hospitals and a newsman who gained admittance to a makeshift morgue at the main gate of the plant said he counted 22 bodies there. 
The company reported "com­bustion of pyrotechnics may have been responsible for the blast," which demolished the I 00 by 200 foot steel and -:on­crete building, obliterated a large house trailer type of building, severely damaged two other buildings and set fire to the woods surrounding the build­ings. 
Rescue workers sa.id bodies were hurled 400 feet out of the building. Rings, wat,~hes and 
McGovern believes Viet war to remain issue for '72 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -Sen. George S. McGovern said Wed­nesday that the Indochina war will remain a dominant issue in 1972 and predicted that Demo­crats will nominate a presidential candidate who pledges total U.S. disengagement. 
McGovern, the only an­nounced presidential candidate, also said President Nixon's goals of cutting unemployment, curb­ing inflation and bringing the war to an end by election time will not be achieved. 
"I don't think he's going to 
achieve any of those goab by 
1972," said McGovern. "The In­
dochina issue is going to be with 
us in a very prominent way in 
1972. President Nixon h:1r, b.old 
of a formula that is not viable." 
In· a wide ranging interview 
with United Press International, 
he discussed major campaign 
issues, prir.1aries, financP~ and 
listed possible presidenti~l cc,n­tenders. 
As for other possible Demo­cratic candidates, McGovern said Sen. Henry M. Jackson of Wash­ington is "looking at it very hard," Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesotya is showing renewed interest, Sen. Edward M. Kennedy could be a "formidable contender," former Attorney General Ramsey Clark and former secretary John Gardner of the Department of Health, Education and Welfare are "most able and attractive," and Sen. Birch Bayh of Indiana is "very serious." 
But all of them, said McGov­ern, might drop out if "a real horse race'' develops between him and Sen. Edmund S. Mus­kie, D Maine, considered the front runner for the Democratic nomination. 
McGovern, who has intra­duced legislation which calls for total withdrawal of U.S. forces from Indochina by the end of the year, predicted that the Democrats will choose a candi­date "who commits himself to disengaging ourselves" from the war. 

At the same time, McGovern emphatically denied that he was a one-issue candidate. Conceding that the war has been the "most urgent" issue, he pointed to his interest in the problems of hun­ger, party reform, and allocation of the priorities. 
Addicts see end to drug addiction: future drug immunization possible 
NEW YORK (UPI) -A new method of combating heroin addiction with non habit-form­
------------------------------------~----· 
• We ~ carried away when 
you come around... and we lo-ve it! 

I 



Budweiser. 
is the only beer in America that's Be.echwood Aged 
(But you know that.) 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. • ST. LOUIS • NEWARK • LOS ANGELES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS • JACKSONVIll~ 
-------------------------------~------­
clothing were uncovered in the rubble. Flares were strewn around the grounds. 
Bob Byobee, a design engineer at the plant, said he was sitting in his office half a mile away when "the lights went off for like a second and then we got the blow. We got the concussion in our building a half mile away that dropped the whole ceiling in on us." 
He ran outside and saw a "big mushro9m cloud illuminated the area with a flame in it. A huge fireball mushroom." 
Security guard Hilton Herring was at the main gate two miles away when the building blew up. 
"It looked like an Atomic bomb. There was a ball of fire and a mushroom cloud of smoke. It was just a few minutes then until they started bringing people out." 

explosion killed some 20 persons. UPI TELEPHOTO 
ing drugs could liberate addicts and even immunize the total population against addiction, it was reported Wednesday. 
Dr. Alfred M. Freedman and Dr. Max Fink told a news con­ference sponsored by the Feder­ation Against Drug Addiction that the new drugs, cyclazocine and nalaxone, could be in wide­spread usage in a year if difficul­ties in manufacturing them in large quantities were overcome. They are being tested in several 
U.S. cities. 

Freedman is chairman of the department of psychiatry at New York Medical College and Fink is director of the division of biological psychiatry in the department. Fink is a consultant to the Federal Bureau of Drugs. 
The researchers said the drugs were safer than methadone, a drug in common usage to treat heroin addicts, because they are not habit-forming. Methadone is habit-forming and its users can get a methadone "high". 
"This can mean the end to the road of addiction," said Fink, "because cyclazocine and nal­axone can liberate addicts from their physical dependence on opiates without hooking them on a substitute." 
The physicians described the drugs as "opiane antagonists which block the action of heroin so that an individual has no more response to the drug than if he received an injection of salt water." Addicts would need three injections of cyclazocine a week or one dose of nalaxone a day, but research may perfect a one-shot dosage that would last up to six months, they said. 
The one-shot dosage could be used with non-addicts to prevent drug addiction in certain groups of persons or in the whole popu­lation, they said. They suggested that the armed forces might ad­minister the drug to all service­men every six months, and said similar action could he taken inside prisons and reformatories. 

.':tudent union sof'iul commission & ace present 






