

Serving the Notre Dame -St. Marys Community Thursday, September 23, 1971 
Thien urged to postpone election 
((') 1!171 Nt'w York Times 
SAIGON, SEPT. 22--The South Vietnamese senate today called on President Nguyen Van Thieu to postpone the Oct. 3 election because his one-man candidacy would lead to "disaster" for the country. 
The resolution, which is not binding on the president, was backed by some former Thieu
\'h•tnamt'St' presidt'nl Nguyen 
supporters and reflected the
\'an Thit'll 
SMC picks three ND students in Tuesday's Assembly elections 
by Marlene lloza 
and Tom Barnholt 
Thr£'£' Notre Dame students 
who ran for at-large positions on 
tlw St. Mary's Student Assembly 
v:t•n• £'1ected. This was the first 
tim<• ND students were admitted 
as candidates for positions in the 
SMC Assembly. 
While none of the at-large candidates had opposition, the Hegina election ended in a tie b<•twe£'n Cindy Derez, Kathy llessert, Tess Lehman, and Carol N£'1son. A run-off is slated for 

·Thursday. Voting will be held in 
H<•gina from 9:00 pro to 12:00. 
L£'Mans will also have a revote 
Thursday because of the inability 
of off-campus students to reach 
the polls. 
Hepresentatives elected Tuesday were: At-large: Jim Clarke, Chris Gainey, Eileen Fitzpatrick, Gary Caruso, and Paul Dziedeic. Freshmen: Valeri Jaskulski and .Janet Ryan. Augusta: Jane Luzar. lloly Cross: Gail Pocus Le Mans: Darlene Gallina McCandless: Greta Anderson, Mary Kay Tobin and Mary Jo Rohman. 
Also elected were 2 stay senators from last years' assembly, Maureen Walsh and Nan Albers. Other members of the Assembly include: Chairman Kathy Barlow, SBP; Missy llnderman, SBVP; Molly Kowalczyk, Assembly Secretary; 


SM(' Studt'nt Assembly 

r"~~~~R~~:~»!~~;~,~~~ 
::::; (L()JI. •)ON )-Great Britain indicated today that it may ehange a lonJ: 
standing policy and make major political concessions to the Roman 
Catt-olic minority in Northern Ireland. Reginald Maulding, the Home 
Secrt:b.ry, said that the Catholics should have a place in the govern­
ment ol the province, which has been ruled by Protest;;.nts durinJ! its 50 
years of existence. · 
_<UN~T~D NATIONS, N.Y.)-The United States lost the first skir­mls~ m. 1ts campaign to prevent the expulsion of the Chinese Nahonahst Government on Taiwan from the United Nations when the ·General ~s~embly's C~ntral Committee voted down a U.S. proposal t~at confhctmg Albam~n and American resolutions be discussed Simultaneously by the assembly. 
<WASIIINGTONl-A federal task force was recently formed to in­vestigate possible health hazards posed by a chemical named PCB, which some s::ientists feel may be even more damgerous than DDT, which it resembles. Although it is not yet regarded as an imminent danger to health, increased amounts found in some foods has caused concern. 
<NI<~W YORK>--Reports from diplomats in Peking said that Chinese arnwd forces have been placed on alert and troop movements were taking place across the country. This information, along with rpeorts that all military flights and most commercial flights had been can­celed, peepened the mystery over what observers believed to be a major political crisis. 
growing opposition in South Vietnam to the president's decision to go ahead with the voting despite the absence of opponents. 
It was regarded by diplomats and other observers as the most serious rebuke to Thieu from within South Vietnam since his decision to proceed with the presidential elections. 
Acting at a special session, 

and last years' senators Mary 
Walsh !Regina), , Sue Curtin Ololy Cross l and Sue Oglesbee <LeMansl. 
The Assembly met Wednesday and SMC Student Body President, Kathy Barlow an­nounced that any changes made this year in the structure of Saint Mary's student government will be nullified in June by the merger. 
Due to this fact, Miss Barlow stated that she wished that the Assembly would emphasize the education of the student body towards various issues rather than attempting structural changes that would be 
(conti.1ued on page B) 

Freshmen seek admittance to ND!SMCForeign Studies Program 
by Mary Jo Campbell 

The number of freshman ap­plicants for the sophomore studies abroad program this year is not unusually high, according to Fr. L. Broestl, head of the program. 
Fr. Broestl reported that a t the present time there are 93 ap­plicants for the Angers, France program and 95 for the lnn­sbruck, Austria program. 
Most of these students are in arts and letters or business ad­ministration programs. 
There is no quota in either program, all qualified students will be accepted. To qualify a student must maintain an over all average of B-and an average in his specific language of B-or higher. 
A committee consisting of Freshman advisors and language teachers in the specific programs will evaluate the candidate's work and make a descision at the end of January. Decisions of the committee are final and any student who decides not to attend, after he has been ac­cepted will not be replaced. 
Occasionally, according to Fr. Broesth, a student will be ac­cepted conditionally, with the final descision resting on his performance during second semester. 
Even though the Angers and lnnsbruck programs are spon­sored by the Notre Dame LanguagP Department, St. Mary's students are considered just as elegible as those form Notre Dame. Fr. Broestl said that no restrictions or exceptions attended by 31 of its 59 members, the senate said that the prospect of an uncontested election aggravates internal dissension, threatens the survival of the country and ignores the will of the people. It concluded that the 
president  should  organize  new  
elections  "in  accordance  with  
democratic procedures."  

The vote--28 senators voted for the resolution and three ab­stained --came after three hours of debate during which not one senator defended Thieu's decision. The speaker not only denounced the one-man election but also had some harsh words for President Nixon. 
"President Nixon can support President Thieu, but President Nixon cannot force the Viet­namese people to support President Thieu," said Ser Huynh Van Cao, a stauncl supporter of Thieu who an­nounced he was withdrawing his support for the President in thf election. 
"It is unacceptable for us thai each time there is an election, there is chaos," Cao said. "It is unacceptable that at the end of each presidential term one ex­president has t9leave the country to Jive abroad and rest in the Mac Dihn Chi Cemetery. The Oct. 3 election is constitutional, but running alone is an undemocratic act." 
will be made to balance the ratio students who do not seriously of Notre Dame to St. Mary's want to attend or those who doubt students. their ability to maintain the 
Most students truly serious necessary grade point usually about wanting to attend will decide not to apply before the qualify Fr. Broestl stated. Those final selection is made. 
Problems being solved for the Dav Care Center 
Lymtt' Mastl"iana 
., 

Minor logistical problems which blocked approval Monday of the proposed Happy Day Child, Care Center are being corrected, according to originator Lynne Mastriana. 
The center, which if approved will be housed in the Saint Mary's Clubhouse, was not ap­proved by SMC administration at their weekly meeting because the proposed schedule posed con­flicts with meetings and classes in the building. 
Center hours have been amended to 7 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., and a temporary partition will be 
to 

Anotner s1ap at Nixon came from Sen. Nguyen Van Chuc, the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, who has been taking anti-government stands since last year. He noted Thieu's pledge to resign if he got less than 50 per cent of the vote. 
"In such a referendum," he said, "The Thieu slate can get any percentage of votes of con­fidence it wishes. It can claim it has 50 or 60 or 70 or even 97 per cent of the votes of confidence, but the question is who will believe these claims? There is a chance President Nixon alone will believe in them." 
Thieu, who is still expected to go ahead with the voting next month, has said that those who want to vote against him must cast irregular ballots by mutilating or throwing them away. He said he would count 
such  votes  as  reflecting  "no  
confidence"  in  measuring  the  
percentage of his support.  

There was no immediate reaction from the presidential palace tonight to the senate resolution. 
But Thieu said earlier today curing a campaign speech that the election was legal and that "we still have an election and we should still go to the polls." The President was visiting a government training center for Montagnard cadres in the Cen­tral Highlands near Pleiku. 
space for children's facilities during meetings and classes. 
An additional problem con­cerned the lunch plan. It was originally thought the children would bring bag lunches. 
However, legal requirements make hot lunches necessary. An arrangement with Saga Foods, which serves St. Mary's, has solved the problem . 
Center facilities will be available to children of faculty and students from both cam­puses. 
Miss Mastriana also announced the center staff Wednesday: 
Tom Foy, business manager; Karen Walsh, chief teacher; Claudia Engeland, assistant teacher; 
Advisors are Mrs. Penny Jameson, SMC psyfhology dept.; Dr. Robert Farrow, chairman Notre Dame Psthology dept.; and Dr. John Houck, Notre Dame accounting dept. 
Legal Aid is supplied by Guy McMichael of South Bend. A greater number of volunteers will be supplied by Mrs. Jameson's students who will be doing the work as part of their classwork. 
THE OBSERVER Thursday, September 23, 1971
Page 2 
-------------------------------.o~~~~ 

Capt. Medina acquited in My Lai massacre 
(C) 1971 New York Times 
FORT MCPHERSON, GA., SEPT. 22--Capt. Ernest L. Medina was acquitted today of all charges of involvement in the MyLai massacre. 
The jury of five combat officers deliberated only 60 minutes before reaching a verdict of not quilty. 
Medina was acquitted of premeditated murder in the killing of a Vietnamese woman, of involuntary manslaughter in the killing of "no less th&n 100" Vietnamese civilians, and of two counts of assault against a prisoner. 
IT'S 
A stifled cheer and some handclapping, quickly sup­pressed by the military judge, erupted in the small courtroom when the President of the Court, Col. William D. Proctor, an­nounced the verdict. 
Medina saluted the court, strode back to his seat at the 
A HARD PROPOSITION TO BEAT? 
If you get the feeling you're spending too much time with the books ... we may have the solution. Ours is a course in reading efficiency that means we teach more than speed. Our course emphasizes study techniques, recall skills and flexibility of rate as well. Let us demonstrate to you the dynamics of today's most comprehensive 
reading course in a free Speed Reading Lesson. 
INCREASE YOUR READING SPEED 50 TO 100% ON THE SPOT! 
TODAY 4,6, and 8, pm TOMORROW 4, 6, and 8 pm 
FINAL TWO DAYS! 
THE CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION Notre Dame Avenue Across From The Morris Inn 
~ EVELYNWOOD
w 
READING DYNAMICS 
defense table, blinked rapidly leave the army. and swallowed a glass of water. The case of Medina, charged But for a moment, struggling to with overall responsibility of the maintain his stoic composure, he MyLai killings, went to the jury kept his eyes away from his at 2:53 pm with the charges German-born wife, Barbara, who drastically reduced. had collapsed weeping on the Medina, the last man to face a shoulder of a friend. murder charge arising from the 
They embraced happily in the tragic slaughter of Vietnamese witness room a moment later, ' civilians 31/2 years ago, heard then Medina went outside and himself described in the defense told a crowd of newsmen that summation as "no filthy felon" although he had always main-but "a disciplined commander tained "complete faith in who honored and loved the military justice" he had not uniform he wore and company it changed his determination to represented." 
Prof. Houck critical of American culture 
by Bill Weber 

"We are at the breaking point", declared Professor fohn Houck Wednesday night in h.s lecture at Carrol Hall which was the first of this year's series entitled "The American Scene, A Cultural Series". 
Houck, of Notre Dame's 
Department of Business, leveled 
sharp criticism against the 
present American culture and 
societal values and set vague 
guidelines for the future. He 
entitled his lecture "Toward the 
Year 2000---Revisited". 

He said that the wealth of 
material goods and technological 
satisfactions which have been 
showered upon our society in the 
he last 26 years has not been a 
boon but rather a hindrance to the growth of a truly good life. The liberal postwar reformers of the U.S. tried to keep the 
t ----,r~~ 


; l 
i ,;
l1 • 
t " 
Professor John Houck 
The Observer is published daily . during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556_ Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556_ 
problems and their solutions direct and simple but this piecemeal approach has failed miserably. The concensus of opinion that the U.S. is the ideal society is breaking down, said Houck. 
"The optimism of the early 60's has turned to pessimism in the 70's". We have programmed change in our society which is functional but not effective," stressed Houck. 
Houck felt that the "cor­nucopia" of the last 26 years has forced us to keep growing but never look back at the cost. Our military preparedness has made us self-righteous and myopic. 
"We are privately wealthy for some and publicly poor for all," he added. 
(continul!d on page 3) 
on campus 
4:15 film--non-violence program: the holy outlaw, on dan berrigan, 127 nieuwland. 
7:00 
seminar--nd club of st. joe's: who shall live and who decided, ccs. 

7:00 
placement night-­senior and grad students in science and engineering: engineering auditorium 


7:30 organizational meeting--students world concern: bengali relief center: flanner tower card room. 
10:00 scripture study ­father ned reidy, smc clubhouse 

HOMECOMING FOOTBALL TICKETS Go On Sole Soon 
Thursday, September 23, 1971 THE OBSERVER. Page 3 
Bayh for President Committee forms here 
Last night at an organizational meeting of the Birch Bayh for President Committee in the Alumni Hall lounge Ed Grimmer, the Indiana Youth Director of the national Bayh Committee, spoke of the Indiana Senator's prospects for securing the Democratic party's nomination for President and of the activities to be initiated by theND-DMV Bayh Committee in preparation for the May Presidential Preference primary in Indiana. 
Grimmer conceded that Smator Bayh is presently suf­
fering from poor name­recognition but is confident that a primary victory will be suf­ficcient to overcome that problem. Many political ob­servers think that there will be no clear-cut leader emerging from the primary battles, but Bayh stands to gain considerable strength from good sluJwings in the several key primaries he intends to enter. Grimmer highlighted Bayh's progress in Florida, Wisconsin, California, Nebraska, and Indiana and he spoke of a reasonable chance of 

Ackerman announced as new assistant dean 
The appointment of Dr. Robert 
L. Ackerman as assistant dean of students has been announced by Ht>v..James T. Burtchaell. 
A specialist in student per­sonnel services, Ackerman received a doctoral degree in higher education at the summer t·om rnencement of Indiana University, Bloomington. 
A 30-year old native of Kewaunee, Wis., Ackerman received his undergraduate degree in history and master's degree in counseling at Wisconsin Slate University. Oshkosh. The topic of his doctoral thesis at Indiana University was "An J<:xploratory Study of Experience and Beasoning As Variables Differentiating Between Aeademic Performance." 
Itt• served two years as assistant dean of students at Oshkosh, two years as associate <"ounselor, and one year as assistant dean for education student services at Indiana University. He is a member of Phi Delta Kappa, national honorary society for students in education, and Phi Chi, national honorary society for students in psychology. 
Ackerman is married to t;Je former Barbara Jane Treml of Seymour, Wis., and they are the parents of a son, Dustin Bryan, born last June. 

Hot Dog Concessions must be registered by Thursday, Sept. 23, /971. For information call Mike Kearse 3625 or 7672 or come by 4th floor Lafortune  

Washington -Maryland -Virginia Club presents 
KING KONG 
Sept. 22nd and 23rd 127 Nielwland at 7:30 and 9:30P.M. 
MEETING For All SMC Girls who signed up to work on the OBSERVER Thursday, Sept. 24 Observer Office 4 pm 
PLEASE ATTEND 
success in the primaries in each of these states. 
Besides achieving name­recognition, Grimmer said that the biggest problem Bayh's campaign faces is to overcome the rumor that Bayh is only running a high-geared Vice­Presidential campaign. Bayh has announced in several press interviews that he would not accept the Vice-Presidential spot. 
The problem of striking a 
·responsive chord in college students is what activities of the local Committee hope to over­eome. The Co-Chairman of theND-SMC Bayh Committee, Pete Barnett and Mike Van Bruaenne, spoke of the several types of activities that the group would pursue this year, including name-recognition events, can­vassing, fund-raising, and for­ming faculty groups as an "issue pool" for local, state, and national problems. 
Though bot!J Grimmer and the Chairmen were unsure of the intensity of interest among college students in the emphasized the fact that the Presidential campaign they were Indiana primary could be a heartened by Senator George showdown of an anti-Muskie McGovern's announcement on coalition since the Maine Senator August 23 that he would not enter is expected to enter the primary the Indiana primary "in here. deference to Birch Bayh." They 
Houck lectures on the American Scene 
(continued Jrom page 2) 
Houck quoted from counter­cultural spokesmen Alan Ginz­berg, Phillip Slater, Theodore 
Roszak, and Charles Reich to illustrate his point of material wealth and cultural poverty. 
In predicting a possible path out of these conditions of cultural sickness, Houck used a dielectic model. The last 26 years, the "remission culture," are the thesis and the current "counter­culture" would be the antithesis. 
"We must not shove the problem off onto 'experts' but, rather, it must be solved by dreamers, visionaries.. We must let dreamers set the path which will bring true relief." 
Houck explained that we would have to analyze our dreams to find those of the greatest ef­fectiveness by ascertaining our best cultural values and making 
them known. Houck was not fully sure how we would do this. He was especially skeptical of the electoral process, but could propose no alternative. 
When asked afterwards if the criticism of over-optimism which was applied by some to Charles Reich's book The Greening of Anll'rica could apply to his lec­ture, he replied that it could. 
"I'm just tripping tonight," he said. 

================ 

•..and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 
Indiana Bell 


Page 4 THE OBSERVER Thursday, September 23, 1971 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER
Editor-in-Chief  Business Manager  
Glen S. Corso  .James Jendryk  
All  successful  newspapers  are  
ceaselessly querulous  and bellicose. They  
Executive Editor T.C. ·Treanor  never defend anyone or anything if they can help it; if the job is forced upon them,  i\d Manager Bill Bauerle  
they  tackle it by denouncing  someone or  
Founded November 3, 1966  something else. -H. L. Mencken,  Notre Dame, Indiana  
Business 283-7471  News 283-1715  

The Best ofAll Possible Moneygivers 
Student Government has finally realized, it appears, just what sudent priorities are. A five thousand dollar allocation from Student Govern­ment has been matched by a five thousand·dollar allocation from the ND Administration and sent to a three man committee to be directed to the halls for hall improvement. 
The composition of the Committee-a hall President, a member of the Senate, and a representative selected from student government -has heated up some of the HPC members, who think that the HPC should delegate all the money themselves. 
Superficially, the reasoning seems sound. After all, Hall Presidents should be more familiar with the physical and psychological condition of their own halls than members of the Executive Branch, or members of the Senate. They have all had experience with "hall improvement," and should be able to deal with questions of cost. 
But, lo! The reasoning is in reality full of holes. The ten grand would be parceled out by the HPC as a whole, and the President of Breen Phillips, for example, is no better qualified to judge the "physical and psychological" condition of St. Edward's hall than is the Senator from Alumni or the Ombudsman. In fact, there is less of a chance that a 22-man board would be well prepared to investigate the condition of the halls than a three-man committee specifically designed for that purpose. 
In addition, no body of elected representatives should parcel money out to its own members. Such stuff would undoubtedly politicalize the body, and that would be tragic. The HPC's much-respected friendliness and informality would probably be the first casualty, as members would battle for allocations vital for their own halls and for their own political careers. Unpopular members of the HPC would be unable to obtain money; their halls would suffer because their presidents were not politicians. 
Instead, the current board presents two members with exactly the right degree of disinterestedness about them. The Senate member and the Executive representative will have no personal political interest in the allocation of the funds, but they will both have the interest of the student at heart. That's the way it should be. 

f::::;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::m:...-.-::~::::::;;:::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::r:l 
:=::: :~  Night editor: Jerry Lutkus Layout: Kathy Schwille, Beth Hall, Dan Barrett, Jack  Night Controller: John Brady Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson  :;:: ;:;:  
:-::· :::~;§; :;:;:  Frischkorn, Ken Kampman Headlines: John Kloos, Kathy Schwille Proofreader: Jim Roe Headline Machine: Mick Kane  News Editor: John Abowd Features Editor: rick smith SMC Editor: Anne Conway Day E?1tor: ~yn Leone  :~: :;=: ;~:*;  
:-:·:  Visitors: Marty Murphy, Joe Abel, Jim McDermott  Manag1ng Ed1tor:  Don Ruane  ~~~  

~:~:~:!:~:~=~=!~:~:?.!:~:~:!8!:~:~:::::::::::::~8::::::~::::~:::::::::::::~=~=~:::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::~:::~:::::::::::::::::::::!:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~: 
The Drug Center is Here 
•••••••••••••••••••••-.-.-,.;;.-•.•.•,..•.•.•-•.•.•·,.-=·:·:-;·:·:·:·;·;·:·:;:;:;·; Glen S. Corso 
·=·-·.·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=-=-=·=·~-'!j~=-~-~-~-~-~·-£•.•-·-·=--·-·····-···· 
.11.:.1 

The sign catches your eye first, letters cut out of yellow, green, blue and red construction paper strung mft along the window, announcing the existence of the Student Drug Information 'center on the f:fst floor of the. library. 
As you walk in your eyes are drawn to the table, strewn with books; the bright orange cover of "Future Shock", the "Handbook of Federal Narcotics Laws", with it's fire engine red cover and the "Community Drug Abuse Guide'', with it's dayglo orange, purple and blue design on the front. 
The room is painted a light brown, that reJects the harsh neon light straight back into your eyes. Across the table sits Tom Tollaksen, bearded and smiling, chairman of the Center. 
A bit of wonder add surprise awakens in your mind, iml:>ued with caustic synicism about student run projects, as you listen to Tollaksen talk. 
You can feel the energy and concern the man possesses as he talks about the 600 plus students that came into the Center last ~e< r, seeking advice not only on drugs, but on love problems, and abortion!'. 
Tollaksen shakes his head as he talks about the students that come 
in. 

"You know," he says, waving vaguely in the direction of the ad­ministration building, "If people come in here with other than drug problems then it me~ns that they have rejected the whole University counseling set up, and in that way they have failed the stud€ 1ts." 
The Center is run by a staff of under ten people, the small number being a matter of ·boice, not necesssity. Over 250 people qave volunteered since it )egan. Tollaksen's voice rises slightly and his annoyance is visible when he talks about "institutions';: and their inability to reach peo1 •le. He's afraid that if more people were added to the staff it would l ecome i stitutionalized and therefore deper­sonalized. 
"Institutions can't be effective. Less people keeps it more personal, it keeps a sensitivity about it. When people walk through that door," he says pointing to the closed polished wooden door, "it is more me and them, not them and the drug center. 
A sense of satisfaction settles on his face though when he talks aboult the 40 people that Center participants talked down from speeding o1· bum trips or lonliness last year. People that got a hold of Lis number, or one of the other staff's and called out of sheer desperation. 
The subject of money brings out Tollaksen's quiet, but firm deter­mination to keep the Center independent. He neither asked for or recieved money from either the administration or the studeni government and has no plans to. 
"We have to not omy av01a control," he explains, "but we have to avoid the appearance of control." 
It is for that reason that he hesitates about endorsing an idea kicked around by other students that the University fund a full scale out.. patient clinic for those suffering from,the effects of drug abuse. 
"A set up like that," he says in softly spoken words, "would be too identified with the University and that might hamper it's ef­fectiveness." 
The Center now exists through donations--from friends of staff 
members and surprisingly enough, interested alumni. The money is 
used to buy books and pamphlets about drugs. 
The Center's easily accessible and exposed location, once an asset, 
is becoming a handicap. Tollaksen says that it is somewhat difficult 
for some students to come in and talk, in full view of the several 
hundred or so students that pass by every hour. 
Plans are being made to move--to a building that is open 24 hours a day and in a room that is not so public. The general feeling is that the Center's reputation is great enough that people will go to it wherever it is on campus. 
Sensing a rising rate of drug usage in Keenan hall in the spring of 1970--couple with a feeing that many of the drug users had little or no knowledge about the drugs they were consuming-caused Tollaksen !;orne friends to get together to discuss the problem. 
Originally the idea was to set up some type of program in the hall. 
Tollaksen distributed 50 copies of an Esquire article on drugs, 
describing their effects in general. Getting more than 200 requests for 
additional copies convinced him and lhe others that there was a need 
forra c~mpus wide program. 
They stated by giving presentations on the problem, as their com­mitments expanded, with more and more requests coming from off­campus groups, th~ decisi9n was made to cut down and eventually to set up the Center. · 
No further expansions are planned and the group, once present funds are depleted, will simply go out and try to raise some more, As drugs become a greater prolblem at Du Lac tl,v • ..: may indeed be an acute need for the eutpatient clinic now being talked about. For the present, through the warmth and understanding of a small group of students, others are being helped, in an area which the university has nothing to offer. 
Thursday, September 23, 1971 
THE OBSERVER Pages 
ISLI promotes leadership on high school level 
by Uaniel P. Rock 

l<'ounded in 1966, the In­ternational Student Leadership Institute has made tremendous progress, according to Student Chairman Hay Connell 
The purpose ol the Institute is to lwlp high school juniors and seniors discover the techniques and the art of leadership. 
"Originally the Leader­ship Institute was coordinated with just parochial high schools in Indiana. We centered the 
OHSEHVEH INSIGHT 

program around specific high school problems such as im­proving spirit, dress code pmblems, etc." Connell said Wednesday. 
ISLI functions are now threefold: 
Coordination of a convention of The ISLI also plans numerous over 200 high school seniors from "small weekends" sponsored for 50 states and foreign countries; groups of 10-15 . Nearly ten of Providing Notre Dame group these weekends have been leaders directly to high schools, scheduled so far. John Short is thus increasing the amount of acting director of these "small students reached at a much Jess weekends," which are held in the 
cost; Encouraging students who Old College building. attrndPd the high school sessions An institute is also being to join the Leadership Institute planned by Student Bodyshould they decide to attend President, John Barkett, for 
Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. university presidents across the 
Letters to the editor 
dirty business 
Editor: 
I'm most disappointed that t•ht•ating has become big hw;iness. 1. refer to. the Ob­server's recent ·Iassified ad for "professional" term papers at $:1.50 pPr page. The sad fact is simply that Notre Dame abounds in students from money backgrounds to whom $50.00 for a tPrm paper is chicken-feed. I realize that most Notre Dame students would refuse such dishonesty ev ~n if they could afford it. I ; !so realize that a percentage of students are both able and willing to invoke a professional cheating service. 
('heating does not rob the tpacher, but rather the non­<'hcating student. Students often fail to reali~.e that grading uf term papers is somewhat com­petitive. If t 1eir paper competes against pro' essional writing, it will seem s ghtly less effective by comparison. Two years ago I f'ncountered a remarkable in­stance where a student had straight A's in all written work, straight F's ,in literally everything else. Because c.-.eating could not actually be proven, the student passed my course. I s·1spect the student had not cracked a book the entire the semester. I found the incident a lesson in just what money can buy. 
I do not criticize the Observer, because I do not believe in cen­sorship. However, I do pose a few questions to the university t•ommunity as a whole. Can a 
-
-=c 

student using a gilt-edged cheating service get a higher grade with half the work? Is it possible to buy your way from a D to a B? Can "daddy" buy his son not only a new Stingray, but also a semester of passing grades? 
I will say this much. If the cheating service delivers what it promises--original work tailored to the course assignment--it would be impossible to prove cheating. The only way to minimize such practice is by an outcry from the majority of honest students. 
Patrick Callahan 
Assistant Professor 
placement aid 
l<~ditor: 
I don't know who was resp~ible for the error that appeared in the September 20th Observer on Placement Services, but I wonder if you would run this correction. It could be very iril,portant to the students and I would like to see it corrected. 
An article appeared in the September 20th Observer on Placement Services in which it was stated that there was no 11roff'ssional counselor on careers and the students should go to their faculty for this information. This should be changed to there is a professional career counselor, Miss Janice Wheaton, who is in Hoom 175 LeMans Hall who will assist not only Saint Mary's students but also Notre Dame men in their career choices or graduate school planning. 
Miss Wheaton has been Director of Saint Mary's Placement for two years and has collected a considerable amount of materials. Our Career Library is located next to the office and contains both Graduate and Undergraduate catalogs, along with career information, business information, in­formative materials on school systems from across the nation and volunteer services. 
Miss Wheaton has been a professional counselor for ten years. She has her Masters Degree from the University of Notre Dame and counseling credits and practicum from Western Michigan University. She has been a member of APGA, ASCA, VGA and listed as a counselor in the National Directory of the American Personnel and Guidance Association for eight years. She 
"petty politics" 

has been a member of the plus off-campus will present National Catholic Guidance fewer candidates than required. Conference. Miss Wheaton has Nine other halls will have un­attended the conventions of both contested elections. I realize that organizations and served as a arousing student interest for group leader at one of them. With anything other than a pep rally or a committee of ten members, she panty raid is next to impossihle, was responsible for setting up a but these figures seem to indicate chapter of NCGC in the Lansing that interest has reached an all­Diocese of Michigan and served time low. Or perhaps the as secretary on that committee. students have finally begun to 
I believe in serving the needs of the students and I consider this a great need. So if you will be so kind as to run this where it will be seen perhaps we can help just one floundering student. Thanks so much. .Janice E. Wheaton Career Counselor 
Tickets $4, s~, $2,
D a 
of the Student Union Ticket Office & Dining Halls Starting Monday


BOys 
presented by Student Union Social Commission andACC 
ch 
e 
Saturday, October 2 8:30pm in the ACC 
eotmtry. 
"This year we arc especially trying to get students form the ghetto and Indian reservations interested. Leadership is very difficult to obtain in these areas, and our second phase is ex­pecially helpful here. We are still expanding in this area, but we have expanded the complete 
organization," said Connell. 
Saturday night, Sept. 25, the Student Leadership Institute is sponsoring a mixer at 10:30 p.m. in the Morrissey Manor chapel. Anyone interested in joining the institute or learning more about it are asked to attend and get program dates, training session information and a list of involved high schols. 

Editor: 
Miss .Jean Gorman's statement that Student Senate candidates pursue mostly "petty politics" is quite accurate. I served as a senator for Keenan Hall last year, and resigned after the first semester. It was often difficult for me to understand how college students could spend long periods 

..
of time discussing issues which ranged from trivial to ridiculous. 
To say that anyone knows the feelings of the students better than the hall presidents would be absurd. To say that the hall presidents could not find the time to handle the student government budget would be equally as ab­surd. 
Finally, I noticed that six halls 
recognize the Senate for what it is. Messrs. Treanor and Guif­frida, please take note. .Jack Doyle 
Sport Parachuting -Sky Diving 

Film -Lecture Questions & Answers Sept. 24, 1971 7: 00 Sponsered by U.S. Parachute Assn. & Marshall Co. Parachute Center 
Admission Free -Everyone Welcome 
123 NIEUWLAND SCIENCE HALL 
J 
Page 6 THE OBSERVER _Ihursdav. September 23, 19~ 
'NEL~ME TO 01~PUS 
-

your nutshell advertisers 
Adler's Town & Country 
Burger King Crocker's Brandywine Inn Eddie's Restaurant 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Larry's Esquire Shop Leather Limited 
Mishawaka Stereo & Home Center ND-SMC Student Gov't. The OBSERVER 
Ronda/Is Inn Jennifer's RMS Audio 
Romy Hammes Ford 
U.S. Army Recruiting Station 


... 
Thursday, September 23, 1971 THE OBSERVER P!i!.L_ 
Minnix a tnenace to opponents 

by Vic I>orr 'H was the best I've done since I've been here. Bill Gallagher and I 
The 1970 football season was a had been alternating with the good one for Bob Minnix. The first team all year, but Bill had Irish running back, then a junior, the edge because of a better finished the year with 219 yards Spring. So I was in the position of in 50 attempts, and averaged 4.3 number one backup halfback, yards per carry. He scored twice and that's why the program on the gound, an•1logged another surprised me. But it didn't bother TD on his only pass reception of me at all. I knew where I was the season.lle finished seventh on going to be on Saturday." the team in total rushing, and The 5-11, 185lb. Minnix was the figured to be a prime candidate number one backup on Saturday, for a starting halfback post when and he saw his first action of the the '71 campaign got underway. season when starter Ed Gulyas 
But the official program for was sidelined with a leg injury­last week's NO-Northwestern later diagnosed as a broken game did not list Minnix as a fibula. starting halfback. In fact, it did And Minnix did not waste his not even list him as a first line opportunity. He carried the ball backup. On paper, Bob Minnix nine times for 41 yards, one was a third-string performer. touchdown, and a 4.5 yard 
"The program surprised me," av<'rage. He caught one pass, and said Minnix, "and I don't really it went for a gain of five yards. know how Hoger (Valdiserri, the "With Ed (Gulyas) out, Bill Sports Information Director) {;allagher and I will probably figured that out. I was having a start this week," Minnix said. real good spring practice this "We'll have Larry Parker and year until I hurt my shoulder, and Greg Hill as the backups, and Ara I guess that held me up a little will be free to shuffle us as he hut. But I came back in time for sees fit. It won't make much th<' Blue-Gold game, and I difference who the halfbacks are, started for the Blue team. because we all had just about 
"And fall practice this year <'qual time against Northwestern. 
Jim Donaldson::::;:;:;:;:::::i;;::::=====;================================================================: 
The Irish Eye 
When Irish backs go mc;rching by 
During those days not so long ago when the Boston Celtics were dominating t~e professional basketball world, people used to marvel at the amazmg wealth of talent coach "Red" Auerbach could call upon. It seemed the _Ce~tics always had a star coming off the bench, someone who could ftll m for a starter and make the big play. First, Frank Ramsey, then the Jones boys and finally John Havlicek would fill in for injured starters and the Celts title machine rolled on. ' 
It's that way with any sports dynasty, with any championship team. The great Yankee tea~s of the '50s &,nd '60s had more talent on the bench than most Amencan League clubs put on the field. Injuries to key players that would have decimated other clubs were shrugged off by the Yanks., who just kept on winning. 
This week, the Irish football team learned that their ace running back, Ed Gulyas, would be lost for a few games with a leg injury. Gulyas suffered a fractured fibula, the long, thin outer bone of the leg, below the knee, in the Northwestern game. 
It was first thought that Ed, who had gained :~o yards and scored the first Notre Dame touchdown of the contest had merely sustained a bruise but precautionary X-rays revealed the break. 
The injury isn't particularly a severe one and Gulyas doesn't even have his leg in a cast--but he is still out of action. 
And when most teams lose their leading ground gainer, (Gulyas' 558 yards was tops among Irish runners in 1970) they're hurting. But not Notre Dame. 
Although the Irish will certainly miss Gulyas, there are plenty of capable backs on hand to take his place. 
Bob Minnix and Larry Parker, who has looked sharp in practice this week, a_re ~he principal ~a.n?idates for Gulyas' job. Speedy sophomore Greg Htll ts also a posstbthty. And no matter which of the three gets the starting nod against Purdue it probably won't hurt the Irish attack at all. 
When a reporter remarked to coach Ara Parseghian after the North­western game about the abundance of running talent Notre Dame had Ara remarked, "We're deeper this year at halfback than in any previous year I've been at Notre Dame." 
It seems like Parseghian could stock every team in the Ivy League with running backs. 
There's Minnix, a senior who's logged action the past two seasons. Bobby bounced off a couple of tacklers to get into the end zone against Northw~ster~ with the touchdown that put the Irish ahead for good. 
The ftrst ttme Parker touched the football in his varsity career at Notre Dame, he toted the pigskin 63 yards for a touchdown. Possessing good speed, hands, and moves, Parker was a standout in last year's So. Cal. game and started for the Irish in the '71 Cotton Bowl. 
llill is a highly rated sophomore who scored a touchdown in his first varsity appearance, too. 
Junior Bill Gallagher has assumed a starting role this season and proved that he can catch a football, as well as run with it, by snaring a :12 yard pass from Bill Etter against the Wildcats. 
And the list goes on. Darryl Dewanand Gary Diminick are capable hall carriers. 
The Irish aren't quite so deep at fullback but Andy Huff and John Cieszkowski give the Irish as capable a pair of backs as a coach could ask for. Huff bounced back from an injury to win the starting job this season and did a fine job of blocking and running against the Wildcats. Cieszkowski's efforts at the tail end of last season proved his ability. 
Even quarterback Bill Etter is a dangerous ball carrier. His quickness and open field running ability is reminiscent of Joe Theismann. Hearkening back to those old Yankee teams again, when the Bronx 
; Bombers were winning all those pennants they had a "Murderers . How" that battered opponents into submission. This season, the Fighting Irish have their own Murderers Row. Give the football to any Notre Dame running back and he's liable to kill the opposition on his 
!way to the goal line. 



Schlezes stunned by steals 
Dame hasn't won in Ross-Ade 
since 1961. 
"Purdue is big physically," said Minnix, "and since we're playing down there you can count on a very rough game. They've got a lot of defensive returnees, and they've got a good offense besides. 
"Danielson <the Boiler QB) can come up with the big play when he has to, and I think Otis Arm­strong speaks for himself. But our main emphasis Saturday is going to be to get our running game established. We have the personnel to do it, and if our running game can get going, than the pass alack will take care of itself. 
"H we can take some of the pressure from the defense," Minnix continued, "then they'll be more relaxed ... and they'll have an easier time keeping Purdue in a hole. And if we can get them in a hole early, well, than we might see another game like last week's. 

"We'll have to play a good game to win. We won't get any breaks from the crowd, or from the refs. either. We'll have to do it ourselves, and I think we can. If • we play well--no turnovers or missed assignments--than there's not much doubt that we'll come away from Purdue with our second win of the season. 
"And we'd better. Facing Ara after a loss is worse than having to pay taxes." 

Bob Minnix gains against 
I don't think we've been this deep in running backs in years." 
The Irish running game this season will hinge around the Wishbone backfield, and Minnix, for one, is enthusiastic about the possibilities of the triple option attack. 
"You can't run a whole lot of things from the Wishbone," Minnix admitted, "but the things you can run are going to be ef­
fective. Really, we're made for 
Northwestern 
the Wishbone. Parker and Hill are going to make those pitchouts great. 
"Northwestern's defense didn't allow us to use the pitchout too much last week, but I'm sure we'll see more of it." 
The Irish offense didn't need to utilize the pitchout in last week's joyride over Northwestern, but things could be different this week against Purdue. The Irish meet the Boilers in Ross-Ade Stadium Saturday, and Notre 
by "Lefty" Ruschmann •n 

'"I figured I'd be lucky to get just one interception," admitted Ken Schlezes, who, on Saturday ripped off three Maurie Daigneau passes, tying the Irish record for pass thefts. "I picked off a few during the week in practice, but still, I never expected something like this to happen." 
Ken's performance came as part of a field day for the Irish secondary, which gobbled up seven Wildcat aerials (tying the ND record), and ran them back for 185 yards (a new record), almost matching the yardage by Northwestern's won receivers. 
For Ken came personal recognition by the Notre Dame Quarterback Club, which decorated him as the game's outstanding player. But he gave credit where he thought it due: "Daigneau is a really fine passer, but he simply didn't have any time against our defensive line." 
Seeing that Northwestern would have little success at­tempting to run against the Blue Meanies on the defensive line, Coach Parseghian designed a defense to shut off the Wildcat passing game. Schlezes, ex­plaining his role in the defense, said, "On passing situations, Ara pulled out a linebacker, inserting me in his place. I was to cover the tight end if he went out; if he stayed on the line, I would drop back for pass coverage." 
His first two thefts came while the tight end was blocking ("I read what the quarterback was going to do"), his third one oc­curred while covering tight end Steve Craig. 
A 6' :r• junior from Rochelle, Illinois, Ken has been hidden among the talent in the Notre Dame secondary. Few know that Ken is one of the fastest men on the squad(4.5 in the 40-yard dash l. lie played hig,h school ball in Sioux City, Iowa (he has since moved to Rochelle), going both ways as a quarterback and a safety. L<'ttering in track as well, he set a school record in the 220. Track took second place to football as college coaches began seeking him out; the list of colleges included Purdue, North­western, Oregon, Dartmouth, and---defending national champion Nebraska. In fact, Big Red coach Bob Devaney paid a call on the Schlezes family and brought him hdown to the Lincoln campus for a game. But the reputation and prestige of Notre Dame, and a visit to the campus sold Ken on coming here. 
Notre Dame, like most schools, wanted him as a quarterback, but during the freshman campaign, he was moved to the secondary, where he started, by freshman Coach Mike Stock. Last year, playing behind All-American Clarence Ellis, he saw limited duty, primarily as a kick return specialist. In seven returns, he picked up 77 yards. Though not listed as a startey, the Rochelle 
\_ 

! -....... 
>~~~~t. 
Robber should be seeing action in Ara 's pass defense. Defensive secondary coach Paul Shoults, seeing a bright future for Ken, said "we expect to use him a great deal in passing situattions, and we look for him to continue playing the excellent ball he played last Saturday." 
Ken attributes his experience to the intrasquad practices during the week, "Covering Gatewood and Townsend in practice makes it a lot easiier in a game situation," he pointed out, "and our prep team does a good job simulating our opponents' offense." Right now, K~and his mates in the backfield are prepping themselves for an af­
ternoon in Purdue's  outdoor  
dungeon.  Gary  Danielson,  
beware.  



.. 
Thursday, September 23, 1971
THE OBSERVER
Page 8 

CLASSIFIED ADS
China's actions puzzling 
(c) l!lil NEW YORK TIMES 
NEW YORK, Sept. 22-­Diplomatic reports from Peking said today that the Chinese ar­med forces had been placed on 
alert and that unusual troop movements were occurring in various parts of china. 
These reports, along with new information from Western in­telligence quarters that virtually all military flights and most commercial flights over the mainland have been suspended since Sept. 12, deepened the mystery over what was hap­pening in China. 
Many Western specialists on Chinese affairs said that a major political crisis or a power struggle might be developing there. This speculation included the possibility that ChairmanMao Tse-Tung, who is 77 years old, or his designated successor, Defense Minister Lin Piao, 63, may have died or become severely ill. 
The only known facts, however, were that the annual Oct 1 National Day parade in Peking has been canceled and that most .. air activity over China has been suspended for the last 11 days. But the uncertainty over the situation in China was com­pounded by the reports of military alert and troop movements and the disap­pearance from public view of most top members of the party's Politburo since early last week. 
ln Peking, the Foreign Ministry officially confirmed that the annual Oct. 1 National Day 1parade had been cancelled. 
The Chinese Foreign Ministry and several Chinese embassies abroad insisted today that Mao was in "perfectly good health." 
Chinese official spokesmen said that the parade had been canceled because the gover­nment had decided to change the form of the celebrations. The parade marks the establishment of the Communist governemtn in 1949. 
Foreign ambassadors in Peking were informed today by the Chinese Foreign Ministry, according to Agence France­Presse, that the parade had been canceled by the Central Com­mittee of the Communist party because it and· the accompanying fireworks display would be "useless expenditures in time and money." 
But Western diplomats and specialists in Chinese affairs were skeptical of this ex­planation, pointing out that the preparations for the parade --the erection of reviewing stand on Tienanmen Square, the building of floats and march rehears!lls -­had been going on since last month. 
Reports form Hong Kong gave 
no indication of any visible signs 
of unrest in China. A group of 
foreign visitors crossed into 
China from Hong Kong and the 
Chinese travel service in Hong 
Kong said it was processing 
normally papers for additional 
visitors. 

But Western intelligence 
sources said that there remained 
an almost total suspension of 
military flights over China and 
that there were extremely few 
commercial flights. 

Earlier reports said that these 
flights had been interrupted for 
three days last week and then 
resumed. The intelligence 
sources said, however, that the 
flying ban has not yet been lifted 
although there have been "some 
ups and downs" this week. 
Much of the Western 
speculation centered on the 
possibility that the problem of 
SMC elects representatives to student assembly posts 

(continued from page 1) 
"ephemeral." 

Miss Barlow said she recently learned that any structural changes would be swept aside by the merger in a conversation with 
Fr. James Burtchaell, the Provost of Notre Dame. "We can't depend on policy changes to last," she added. 
The Student Assembly decided by general agreement to write a letter to Sister Alma Peters, vice­president for special projects, concerning the Day Care Center. Afterwards Barlow said that she and her secretary would work on a draft of the letter. The letter according to Barlow would ex­press that the Assembly "is very much in favor of the idea of the Center." 
The Assembly also discussed the problems of Augusta Hall. Last year the hall was allowed greater leeway in constructing its own regulations. SMC plans for this year did not originally in­clude its use as a dorm but the overflow of freshmen forced the Administration to house 130 freshmen there. Augusta has been experiencing problems with its rector, Sister Regina, over the true function of the rector in the hall government. 
Missy Underman announced that the Coffeehouse will be opened this year. 
Barlow reminded the Assembly that they would have to choose three of their members to be student representatives on the SMC tripartite Student Affairs Council. She also remarked that the Assembly was working under a deadline, since on March 1, there will be one election for the student government of both campuses. 
Applications for the 
'65 Impala Convert. 396-ss, 
NEED RIDE TO WOOSTER,succession to Mao could be 
Automatic, Power Steering, 
OHIO, NEAR AKRON, THISbehind any crisis. 

Power Brakes, Blue, Real 
FRIDAY 78511
They said that a succession 
Sharp, $625. Edison Park 
struggle, possibly designed to 
Sunoco. Corner of Edis.on and Need ride from N.Y. area toreplace Lin, who has been in poor Ironwood. Notre Dame on any homehealth for some time and has not 
~M-e-n-,s--a-n_d_l_a_d_ie_s_'_w_a-tc""h_e_s-, 11 football weekend. Call Jack
been seen in public in months, could have developed even if Mao 
diamond rings, jewelry of alll!-!"28~9!..._-7.!..:4~3"-3.~-------­was still alive. 
types. Brand name, complete For Sale: 1965 Ford Falcon :nJ There was no confirmation that 
line, not hot. Call Tom 3575. dollars. Call:234-5889 after ll:(X)I p.m.
the Central Committee of the LOST -gold wire-rimmed tt--------------1Chinese Communist Party may eyeglasses. If found please New Posters of all varieties ibe in secret session in Peking, as 
tall 288-2933. stock at great prices. Come to 81reported by some sources, or that 
f--::---------------HFlanner or 611 Grace or call 169
the National People's Congress, 
Typing . Wanted: !heses, 
or 1167. 

the first one since 1965, may be 
manuscnpts. Expenenced, called soon. 
accurate typist. Jane Smith 233-ft--::-M__U_S::-T--S-E_L_L___G-re_t_s_c_h-1 But specialists noted that with 
,029. "Dorado" 6 string guitar and the exception of Premier Chou, "Beat Purdue" T-Shirts and case. 1 year old, excellent no Politburo member has been any special order T-Shirts condition. $150 or best offer. 
seen or mentioned in the official available. Call 7907. Call Chas 8420. 
press for over a week. Adorable kittens, absolutely 1 free. Call 288-7590. After six GEN. ADM. 
p.m. Need 2 or 3 tickets to N. C. 
~· THE NATIONAL LAMPOON game. Ken, Stanford 219, 86411 Share in the wisdom and insanit· Reader wanted for partially.. of America's College Humo· sighted student for one hour 
Starts tomorrow 
Magazine. Subscribe now ant daily. $2.00 per hour. Marty, save $1.00 over regular sub-109 Fisher. 9f\. 
scription rate, $4.00 over Need 2 tickets to MSU. Call newsstand. Call for information. sue 284 5124. 
What could possibly 
follow "1, a woman" 
Paul 1)868 or George 6843. i---=-=-t=-,.e--=ec::.d,.:-2,::-t'-7i""c::-k.,---:_1-s-,-=-c-a:-:-II--::D,.-;i-::-c;:-k-;;2-;:;cS3;;-·-I
Open 6:30. 

Babysitting in my home 1202.
a.ges 3 and up. Full or part Lost last Wednesday: slide t1me. 2419 Riverside Drive rule, black leather case. South Bend. 287-1777. ' Reward: 5230 For Sale: Stereo Cassette player ­
Oh  well,  the  soc  ·  1  ed  
Simon simpl e  original  didn't  
reallY  say  anything  much  

Purdue  this  weekend.  Will  
share  expenses.  Call  Susan  
5480  or  Mnry 5367.  

Speakers $150 -1401 -153 
Cavanaugh 

ANYONE INTERESTED IN JOINING A STUDENT FLYING CLUB CONTACT WALT AT 234-5566 OR 'BILL AT 1840. 
DREAM JOB No house to house. Part or Full Time. Weekly Income $40-$100 showing make-up techniques. Vivianne Woodard Cosmetics. Call 272­
1174 

Desperate -Need Navy and Michigan State Tickets -Call ~{evin 1285 
TERMPAPERS AND THEMES written by professionals in Speech, Rhetoric, Psychology, History, Biology, etc. 
Original paper -$3.50 per page Duplicate paper -$2.00 per
I.a 

page. Cash, Money Order, or Bank Draft. QUALITY C.OLLEGE
Woman,.rt II 
TERMPAPERS 

Co-feature: P.O. Box 193, Rockford, Illinois 6ll01. 
Classified ads apdi for in


I, ® 
cash when ordered. 2.0tfice hours 12:15 . 5:00. 
.A.ds in by 2:00 on day before publication. 


awoman 
Notify us of any mistakes in your ::.;;.
~!XL~U 
about my ability to bea1r children because I gave birtt1 to triplets in his office and that seemed to settle the question. 
Love, Your Dear 
NEEDED: Ride to Purdue Will Share Expenses C;1ll 8051. 
Altention: All Soccer En­thusiasts. A double tragedy befell Notre Dame and its soccer squad Sunday when the 1eain was not only shut out 3-0 by I.U. but also lost its superstar, iorm er All­American and captain Bruth Graves, who was unmercifully 

Two gorgeous g iris in desparate need of ride to 
o unteers needed: St. Mary's girls interested in tutoring Mexican-American tam ily one-hour per week. Please call Paul 1643 (knowledge of Spanish not necc-sary.) 
Need ride to MSU this weekend. Will share ex­penses 8688. 
For sale full-sized refrigerator, good condition. A527 or 232-6509 after 6:00p.m. 
No more than what it says about your abilities, my dear. Forever yours, Unwed 
OBSERVER CLASSIFIED RATES Mother. Next .fords 1 day I ..ys 3 dayil 
.. day• 1 week
"Midnight Cowboy" and 1·11 .se .75 
1.00 1.15 l.Z5
"Groupies"r 

11·15 ... 1.00 
1.35 1.75 2.151 i 
11-20 .78 

1.15 l.'lt Z.40 ue; Z1·ZS .85 1.35 
z.oo 2.90 3.45 %6-30 
1.00 
1.10 

2.35 3.40 ...111
Academic Council 
·31-35 

l.ZO 1.!10 
2.80 3.85 4.7~1 
36-4!)

are due Sept 27. 
1.35 2.10 3.10 4.25 
S.UI 41-45 
1.55 2.30 
3.30 4.50 !i.SCII
Include a short resume of your 
46-50 

1.75 2.50 
3.50 4.75 600 
qualifications, and leave appplication in Student Government office 




