its gettin' a little better­at least the sun is trying to come out. don't get your shorts out of moth­balls just yet, tho; the temp is still layin' low 


Vol. VI, No. 44 serving the notre dame-st. mary's community Thursday, November 11, 1971 
by Ann-Therese Darin 
Acting St. Mary's president Sister Alma Peter announced that she is "not ac­tivating, but alerting" the St. Mary's rank and tenure committee. The ~nnouncement came on the heels of a November fourth letter from the acting president to the faculty which said, in part, "I am reconvening the Rank and Tenure com­mittee of St. Mary's College and asking it to begin preliminary work on gathering data." 
Any activity of the committee, she said, would be forthcoming only if the Ad-Hoc Committee of •the Boards of Trustees is unable to complete the proposed unification's financial arrangements at its NovcmlK'r nineteenth-twentieth meeting. 
The unification announcement the Boards of Trustees drafted last April stipulated that Notre Dame would honor any rank or tenure incurred by a SMC faculty member before April of 1971. 
Expectation of timetable 
This clause was written in expectation that both Universities would closely follow Hcv. James T. Burtchaell's unification timetable, which would have had the 1972 budgets merged. 
With the hold-up in unification, it is now unclear whether tenure acquired by SMC faculty this year will be honored by Notre Dame. 
Last year's Rank and Tenure Committee Chairman Miss Rita Cassidy has received no communication from the president's office other than the faculty letter. 

Tenure committee 'alerted' 


Asked if she plans to call a meeting of I<:nglish papers. the tenure would ~ot ~e hon?red ~Y. No~re hl.'r (•ommittee, she replied "No, because I As chairman of the SMC English Dame. Last April m their umftcab~n really do not understand what its function department, he is concerned about the statement, Notre Dame and St. Marys 
would be. Obviously if Sr. Alma recon­venes the committee and gives us a specific mandate that is the prerogative of the president. 
"Before the meeting on the nineteenth and the twentieth, it would be extremely difficult to work because of no mandate or guidelines," she added. 
"Historically," campus American Association of University Professors president Dr. Donald Hornung said, "this n·view is ('Ompleted at the same time as Notre Dame's ... around November fif­teenth. But. because of unification, we didn't start in October as we usually do." 
No lli.'W chairman had been appointed to thl.' rank and tenure committee because of the scheduled unification, according to Miss Bl.'verly Siderits, personal secretary to Sister Alma. 
SMC administrators, Miss Cassidy said, assumed that there would be no need for the committee, which usually started work "three or four months" before the December first deadline for notifying instructors with two or more years of seniority about their future. 


Sessions with candidates 
Besides accumulating material, the Hank and Tenure Committee also held approximately fourteen sessions with two or three department's candidates credentials and performance reviewed in each session. 
"They expect us to do in three weeks and a Thanksgiving vacation what would normally take several months," Miss Cassidy said. 
Many members of the faculty seem unclear about the reasons why Sister Alma is alerting the Rank and Tenure Com­mittee. 
Miss Cassidy said that the ordinary renewal of contracts is not "within the jurisdiction of the Rank and Tenure Committee." Her committee deals solely with cases of promotior, and granting of tneure. 
She speculated that SMC could complete the simple one-year renewal of all faculty Sr. Alma Peter: Alerting tenure committee 
member's contracts by the December first deadline the unification program established. This act would require the 
Jeanne Finske. 

Both of the administrators on this committee, Detzler and Sr. Finske, af­firmed Sr. Alma's contention that "everything is being held in abeyance until the November meeting of the Board of Trustees." 
Hornung counted "ten or eleven" faculty members who would qualify for tenure this year. According to the April unification statement, tenure would be suspended for these instructors. 
43 tenured by last April 
Although the Observer could not obtain a list of the affected departments, it did learn that out of an SMC populace of ap­proximately ninety members, fourty-three members were tenured as of April, 1971 
While less than fifty per cent of the faculty members are tenured, the perc­netage in each depatment varied last spring. 
In the college of science, for example, the biology deparment has five tenured and two non-tenured members; the chemistry depatment, four tenured and one non-tenured member. 
Will SMC tenure be valid? 
than 50 percent of the faculty who do not by Ann-Therese Darin have tenure, and in particular for the 10-11 Observer Associate Editor instructors who would have been reviewed "How do you honor a pledge attached to for tenure this year. a timetable that can no longer be met?" If any of them are granted tenure by St. asked Dr. Paul Messbarger over a sheaf of Mary's this year, there is a possibility that 
snag in unification because seven of his agreed that Notre Dame would ho~or any nine English instructors are not tenured. rank or tenu~e_acc_rued before Ap_rd, _1971. As chairman of the St. Mary's faculty Now that _umf1catwn plans are m, hmbo assem he is concerned for the better and there 1s a chance that St. Marys may 
OBSERVER INSIGHT 


be issuing one-year contracts for all of itS instructors, the future of the tenured-to-be will be misty until St. Mary's has received some notification from the University Provost's office either adjusting the date for acceptance of rank and tenure to April, 1972, maintaining the earlier agreement. 
Since it is "virtually certain the key 
element of the sequence, the unified 
budget, is no longer a possibility," Dr. 
Messbarger, after consultation with acting 
SMC president, Sr. Alma Peter, drafted an 
outline of possible arrangements for the 
university-college community next year. 
He divided his outline into five specific 
categories: budgets, contracts for non­
tenured faculty, contracts for tenured 
faculty, academic departments, and 
Dr. Donald Hornung student body. 
Presented at the faculty ass,..:;e~m!!b~lL----------------­
meeting Monday afternoon, the group passed most of the suggestions, with the exception of plans advocating a renegotiation of the unification plans. Under the category "budgets," the assembly favors these actions in order of priority: 
---unified budgets for 1972-73; 

---alternately, separate budgets for 1972­73, agreement to unify for subsequent years. 
(continued on page 6) 
Dr. Paul Messbarger 


Rough road to polls for students 
(c) 1971 New Yorh Times 
Los Angeles, Nov. 10--Students who have tried to register to vote .this fall have run into numerous roadblocks thrown up by local election officials. 
Often these officials are confused by the laws or frightened by the young people's potential impact on college towns, and their actions have evoked cries of protest and a number of lawsuits by student activitst. 
Campaigns to enroll the 11 million new voters prior to last week's elections had mixed results, and only about 20 percent have qualified thus far. One important cause, the campaign organizers concede, is the attitude of young people who remain unex­cited about many local contests and unimpressed by the leading presidential candidates. 
But the "obstructionism" of election officials is another major factor, the youth organizers charge. "It's the same old hypocrisy story," funed Ed Hoeder, an official of the Student Vote, a nonprofit registration effort. Morris Abram Jr., the group's president, declared: 
"Obstruction of the right to vote makes a mockery of the efforts of thousands of legislators who worked for enactment and ratification of the 26th amendment. It creats the most widespread frustration among young people earnestly seeking entrance into the electoral process." 
Local officials retort that they are merely following the law, that students are not permanent residents of college communities and are thus not entitled to vote there. 
But the main reasons appear to be political, Dennis R. Bing, the clerk of Champaign County, site of the University of Illinois, said: 
"The local citizens are worried that the students would saddle them with high taxes and big bond issues. In reality, their hearts are not here." 
Of the 11 million potential voters between 18 and 21--another 14 million will cast their first ballot in a presidential election next year--only about 4 million are students. The one-third of the students who live with their parents, plus the 7 million nonstudents, apparently have no more trouble registering than anyone else. 
In some places, however, the trouble can be considerable. Short hours, inaccessible registration offices, and complex forms help keep enough citizens off the rolls to give the United States one of the worst rates of political participation of any democracy. 

Public attention has focused largely on the question of whether students will be allowed to vote in cities where they are attending schools. So far, the legal trend has been in favor of the students. 
Numerous court decisions and opinions by state attorneys general have insisted that students be treated the same as everyone else. In California, the state Supreme Court overturned an opinion by Attorney General Evelle J. Younger, who had ruled that students must vote where their parents live. 
A typical judicial opinion was issued in Michigan by Supreme Court Justice John B. Swainson, a former governor, who declared, "It is no longer constitutionally permissible to exclude students from the franchise because of fear of the way they may vote." Swainson's opinion struck down all barriers to the registration of studt~nts. 
The movie "Joe", originally scheduled to be shown Friday night, November 12 has l.Jeen rescheduled. It will now be st>cn on Sunday night at 8:00 and 10:00 in ()'Laughlin Auditorium. The J pric<' of admission remains $1.00. 


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------. 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Thursday, November 11, 1971 
'Minority of minorities' 
Indians:' No money I 

by Jerry Lutkus Observer News Editor 

(This is the third part of a four part series on the minority recruitment policies of the University of Notre Dame. Today's segment deals with the University's recruitment of American Indians. 
"I guess we're the minority of minorities on campus," Forrest Whiterrabbit confided. Whiterabbit is Winnebago Indian in his third year of studies at Notre Dame. He says this because he is one of 4 Indians who study at the university. Three Indians are undergraduates, while the fourth is in the Law School. 
Whiterabbit laughingly commented, "You realize, though, that our enrollment has grown 200 per cent with this freshman class." The statistics published by the Office of Ad­missions says that four Indians are members of the freshman class, but Whiterabbit only recognized two of them. "One of them came to me and he turned out to have blond hair and blue eyes." 
The problem that seems to plague all minority students interested in Notre Dame is money, a source of trouble for Indians. The University has been "very good" about financial aid for the few Indians here, ac­cording to the head of the Native American Club, but the amount of money available for recruit­ment is not a matter the Univers ty wants to talk about right now. 
Cliff Hofman, a member of the club from Windowrock, Arizona <the location of a Navaho reservation, said that "As long as we can get BIA scholarships (Bureau of Indian Affairs), the University will match it. They have a certain amount of funds set aside for us." 
But again the pair asserted that funds remains a hinderance. It must be rP.membered, they said, 
SLC Agenda 
Student Life Council 
Agenda-November 11, 1971 
(Thursday) 
7:30 
p.m.-Center for Continuing Education 

I. 
Acknowledgement of Fr. Hesburgh's letter. 


II. 
Committee Reports 

A. 
Steering Committee­15 min. 

B. 
Planning Committee­15 min. 

c. 
Rules and Regulations-15 min. 

D. 
Hall Life Committee­15 min. Ill. Report on the University Judicial Board­15 min. Fr. Riehle 


IV. 
Report on the Crypt by Ad-Hoc Committee-15 min. 

V. 
New Business-5 min. 


p 
Car Parts 
and 
Accessories 

Regional LowPrices! 
01stnbutor 
Foreign Car Parts Co. 
that Chicanos, Blacks, and In­dians all must travel far to see the campus and they "really should see it" before applying. Most Indians cannot afford that cost. 
As of now, Whiterabbit said, the university is leaving the basics of recruiting to the Native American Club. "Dan Saraceno has done a tremendous job and helped us a lot, but right now we handle students coming to campus and the sending out of feelers to high schools." 
Hofman noted, though, that 8 or 9 Indians have already applied this year. But the Indians who do apply to schools like Notre Dame generally apply to many of the larger schools in the country. Hofman says that these other schools generally have a harder sell on recruiting minorities and American Indians usually end up going there. Thus, these schools usually have larger Indian populations and this also tends to draw more Indians to a school. 
According to Whiterabbit, many Indians have "no great desire" to go to out-of-state schools. They generally would prefer to stay in state where their family and friends are. "They feel alien, out of place." 
Hofman quipped that most Indians hear of Notre Dame as "the great white ivory tower", but Whiterabbit reshaped his statement into "the great white ND". 
Last weekend, a group of In­dians were on campus with the International Students Con­vention. They, expressed "great interest" in the place according to Whiterabbit. On December 8, the Native American Club are bringing some more Indian students to the campus to take a look. 
Whiterabbit chuckled as he 



Death March 
The 2nd Annual Senior Death March will be held again this fall tomorrow afternoon preceding the Tulane pep rally, which is to be in the old Fieldhouse. This march represents the sentiments of the seniors who are par­ticipating in their last Irish rally. 


Joseptl E Levme presenls ·A M•ke NICholS f1lm • slarnng 
~ Tomorrow -Open 6:00 ~ 


t"BRILLIANT."f 
~ -Judith Crist. N.Y. Magazine 
.0 
. c 
0 
~ 
.. ~ 
~ 

Forest Whiterabbit: Minority of minorities 
revealed that Notre Dame was originally founded as a mission for the Pottawattimi Indians. "We're hunting through the charter to see if there is some provision to give Indians a free education." 
Block American Law Students Ass oc iation 

presents a lecture ON THE EXPERIENCES OF A BLACK ATTORNEY b y 6 ob h y Hi II , Georgi a L egi si atu re Frida~, November 12 
8: 00 • 9: 30pm

Memorial Library Aud. 
No Charge

All Students Welcome 

~==~'== ----~====================~ 
Clothes and things 
Men's Boutique 



tlte 7'it Stap 
"On the Mall" -McKinley Town & Country 
Shopping Center-Mishawaka, lndi~na Phone 259­7:135 

$399 


novv 

buys you all
-
the 
•

mUSIC. 

Until very recently, if you set out with $400 to buy a complete stereo system, you were in for a disappointment: you could not buy a stereo system at or near 
1 

that price which could reproduce tl).e lowest octave of deep bass. In fact, to get a system which would accurately reproduce the entire musical range, you had to 
spend about six hundred dollars. 
The new Smaller Advent loudspeaker has changed all that. It is the only loudspeaker selling for less than tlje original Advent ($102) which can reproduce the lowest musical tones (including~ those that are felt). Most small loudspeakers (and many expensive and ambitious, ones) cannot accurately reproduce the lowest strings of the double bass, bass gu~tar, or the lowest notes of the pipe organ. The Smaller Advent can. And the Silky brilliance of its midrange and highs is identical with that of the already famous larger Advent speaker. 
I 

The new Scott 357 AM-FM Stereo~receiver delivers more than 22 watts per channel of RMS power into the 4 ohm Advent speakers (RMS isn't just our name 
--it also stands for the most de:r'a~din~ .and least flas~y of t~e v_ari~us power 
rating systems). Its FM tuner lS SieliSltlve and selective, br1ng1ng 1n the weak 
stations as well as the strong ones with astonishing fullness and clarity. 
The Garrard SL55B automatic turntable completes the system. It has inaudible wow and rumble and such conveniences as a manual cueing control. And it's equipped with a Shure M93E elliptiqal diamond cartridge, a base, and a dust 
cover. 

The guarantee covers parts and la~or on the turntable for one year, the speakers and the recei•rer for 2 years. 
The price is $399. which is a very good price. It will buy you more quality sound and reliabiiity tnari it could have only a year ago, and more than you can buy anywhere else in the a.rea. 
Still unbelieving? (Previously bitten on claims, perhaps?) Allow us to lure you 
into our store, not words)  so that we  may real~stically  substantiate our claims.  (With music,  
PI-lONE  289·1691  
OPEN 3-B PM MON-TH 1-4:30 PM SUN & FRI I CLOSEO SATUROAY  


Open Sunda 

I -4:30 

-~---------­
Thursday, November 11, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 




world briefs 
<c> 1971 New York Times 

Washington--The Senate voted to ratify a treaty returning Okinawa to Japan and ending American occupation of the main Japanese islands. The treaty, which will be ratified by President Nixon v.•hen Japan passes legislation permitting 
continued  America~:.  use  of  military  bases  on  Okinawa,  
resolves  the  last  pt~litical  issue  between  the  countries  
growing out of Wurkd War II  

Santiago--Cheering crowds organized by the Socialist and Communist parties gave Premier Fidel Castro of Cuba an enthusiastic welcome in the streets of Santiago. Castro, on his first trip to Latin America in 11 years, was greeted on his arrival by President Salvador Allende Gossens of Chile. 
Lima--Peru promilgated a law that put all television and radio stations under effective state control. The law, the most sweeping state intervention in broadcasting in Latin America other than in Cuba, gives workers a share of the profits and control of the stations and gives the government much of the station's stock. 
on campus today 
9:00am-9:30pm symposium--sense and insense: fakes, carroll hall 
4:15 lecture--joe h. cho, foreign In­vestments and international conflicts, 127 nieuwland 
7:00 
meeting--notre dame students for mcgovern, 2d Iafortune 

7:00 
& 9:00 -the committee, little theatre, moreau hall 


8:00 lecture--dom sebastian moore, have we ever heard the real jesus, library auditorium 


nd-smc 

Saturday fund drive needs volunteers 
This Saturdaay, November 13th, the March of Dimes will be sponsoring a fund raising drive on campus. This drive is relying ('lltirely on volunteers from the Notre Dame -Saint Mary's community and is in urgent need of volunteers. 
The Nature of the volunteer work is soliciting for money around the stadium and on the campus proper. Anyone in­h•rested in volunteering need only come to the hallway in front of the art gallery in O­Shaughnessy anytime after 10:00 on Saturday morning. There, he will pick up a cannister for soliciting. You can come when you want and solicit for as long as vou want. All cannisters will be ~t·turned by I: 15 p.m. in order to allow time to get to the game. 
The National Foundation ­March of Dimes is an organization founded by Franklin Hoosevelt to combat polio. Through it!l support a cure was assured by 1958 -a cure which most of us have benefited by. 

PEP UP 

YOUR 

Following this success, the NF ­
March of Dimes turned its at­
tention to birth defects, a far 
more serious problem that polio 
ever was. 
Birth defects are the nation-s second greatest destroyer of life­after heart disease. Birth defects claim 560,000 lives each year ­!iO,OOO children and adults plus an estimated 500,000 babies who die before birth as a result of defects. 
At least 250,000 babies are born each year in the IU.S. with significant birth defects. By conservative estimate, some 15 million Americans have one or more birth defects which affect their daily lives. About 1,375,000 of them arc pre-school children. More children are hospitalized for birth defects than for all in­fectious diseases combined. At least half of all mental retar­dation is caused by defective prenatal development -an estimated 3,000,000 people in the 
U.S. are mentally retarded 
because of birth defects. The National Foundation fights 


WALLS 
Hand-painted 13¥2" X 6¥2" plaque of ND player or 
other college or pro team. 

Britten Industries 
:!!!50 N. Mildred Ave. 
Chicago, Ill. 60657 

Please send -----plaques at $3.50 each of 
<Team) 

Specify color:------; Helmet-----­Jersey ; Pants___ ; Team Initials ___ Name ______________________________ 
Address------------------------------­
City State Zip ___ Enclosed: n Check n Money Order 
care of birth defect children. support of the James Whitcomb birth defects throu progams ot Funds raised in Saturday-s Riley Hospital for Children research, medical care, campaign will go to the St. If anyone has any questions, professional and public health J County Chapter for the please call 3663. education. It-s's research ,;========:===================I
·

program seeks causes and cures; raster, more accurate diagnostic 
methods;  more  effective  
treatment  techniques  and,  
hopefully,  preventives.  The  

problem is immense because causes are generally of a com­bined hereditary and en­vironmental nature. Hence, research must deal with the complex biological problem of the mechanics of heredity. The National Foundations' Medical Care Progam includes a nation­wide network of Birth Defects Centers dedicated to raising the standards of medical care for birth defect children all over the country. Its Professional I<~ducation Program helps to teach and train the many types of health personnell required in the 
Th 5f h D . 
e 1m ens IOn 

appearing Saturday Nov. 13-8:30 PM 
Athletic and Convoc at ion Center 
D & SMC Discount 
Ticket Prices $5.50-No discount $4.50-Purchased for $3.50 $2.50 Purchased for $1.50 
Must present I0 card for discount at the ACC Box Office ONLY 
From the land of British Racing Green. 
Only 24 of the top racing drivers in theworld are eligible to compete in all International Grand Prix. 
More than half of them are British. 
For the British, cars are a very no-nonsense, unfrilly business. In a car, they regard beautyas a function of how beautifully it functions, and 
nothing reflects this more than the classically British TR-6. 
It is English to the core. 
In fact, it's just about all core­a big, beautifully engineered 6-cylinder motor, powering a sturdy transmission that slides solidly from one gear into another. 
A heavy-duty independent suspension that can take any· thingthat any road can dish out. 
All tightly put together in a body with rugged, clean lines and topped off with a couple of comfortable reclining seats to sit in it with. 
The classically British TR-6, is an utterly straightforward, square-jawed kind of car. 
The kind they don't make anymore, anywhere but England. 

Available for mmediate Delivery at 


916 E. McKinley, Mishawaka Phone 255-4751 
;P:a!ge::.f::::::=:::===-..::::::::::;;::::::::::::::::;~;;;::T.=::11.~E;;.~0:;1l.I;;,:'E~'R;V.;;'E.;;;;R..:::~~~~~~-=-=~=~~=..:..;Th:u~rsd:ay..!_ November 11, 1971 
Firstf Tuesday hung over_______ 




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
1-:ditor-in-t'hi~f. ~GI~n S. Corso Assistant Editor ,\ssistant Editor All succl.'ssfuf newspapers .ue John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They _never defend 
,\dn••·tising !\lanagf'r 

Rusinf'SS Manager anyone or anything if thi>Y can help 
Jim J~ndryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Business: 283-7471 News: 28J'-l 715 
Tenure: the Best Possible AIternative 
The list of proposed actions that have been messed up because of the failure of Notre Dame and St. Mary's to reach a financial agreement has just begun, a list that will probably get a lot longer if the Trustees can't solve the impasse at their mid-November meeting. 
Rank and Tenure for St. Mary's faculty is an early and rather sensitive addition to the list. Last year, when unification was first decided upon, the timetable set up called for the merger of the academic departments by this year. Accordingly Notre Dame announced that it would not recognize any tenure granted by St. Mary's after April of 1971, the thought being that all tenure decisions after that would be made by committees from the merged departments. 
Unfortunately for a dozen faculty members at St. Mary's things have not gone according to plan. By virtue of the number of years they have put in teaching over at SMC a decision on whether or not to grant them tenure is due by December 1st. Ordinarily those decisions would not cause great difficulty. With unification at least temporarily delayed, while the financial managers try to figure out where funds for the scheme is going to come from, making tenure decisions beomes a problem, a very serious problem for those people whose jobs are on the line. 
The appropriate committees at Notre Dame, with an eye towards the original timetable, labored under a directive by Fr. Burtchaell and amassed material on the ability of those twelve SMC faculty members. The St. Mary's administration, also eyeing the unification timetable, never bothered to activate their rank and tenure committee, assuming that the task would be handled by Notre Dame. 
Now however, with December 1st fast approaching, St. Mary's is being forced to decide exactly what status the dozen faculty members should be accorded. To grant them tenure would be useless since it won't be recognized by Notre Dame when unification does occur. Yet with unification still a drawing board concept any move by Notre Dame in the area might be presumptive. 
St. Mary's could take the easy way out and grant those dozen people one-year contracts. Doing that would probably insure that the school would lose some of those people and probably the most talented of the lot­-talented faculty members that we can't afford to lose. 
The smartest and best solution would be to have Notre Dame make the tenure decisions for these people. When unification comes those who have been given tenure will know they have a job, while those that don't make it won't be any worse off then before. 
The Notre Dame people have the information, they are qualified to judge a faculty member's performance and they will eventually be the colleagues of those who get tenure. 
St. Mary's could perform a real service for the twelve faculty people by doing just that-we suggest they do it. 
Nite Editor: Joe Abell 
Ass't Nite Editors: Jack Frischkorn, Maria Gallagher (see, maria, you even got promoted--now wasn't itworth itall?) Not Much Help, But At Least She Showed Up: Beth Hall The Rabble That Was a Shoe-In: Donaldson, T.C., Ed Ellis, A.T. Jim McDermott, Corso, Marty Miller, smith, Peggy Lawlor, Sally Smith, Janet Jason, Maryalice Conway (bet you didn't think you'd ever see 
your names in print) Hal, Jr. Operator: Don Biancamano Sports Nite Editor: Vic Dorr (he even gets paid! l Nite Controller: John Brady 
1. 
john, get the cockroach off jerry's desk--he's starting to gag (jerry, that isl 

2. 
maria says thanx for everything, guys and keep those cards and letters coming 


Strange Beings Revisited 

-----,--------Tom Bornholdt 
Last year, 1Yours Truly had mentioned his bizarre experiences on thecampus of DNU out in the "heart of darkest Iowa". As I feare<I\ (ew people were' able to believe that such personalities are reaL But remember this: they laughed at Galileo, Darwin and Columbus. Anyway, I am continuing my story in DNU, but only because some shrink over at Psycho Services requested that I "tell him all about these experiences". 
In the cen~r of DNU is this great Silver Tower. And, believe it or not, these people come every day and worship this great architectural booboo. They just stand there and say, "Gee, the Tower is beautiful; boy, the weal!her is beautiful in Iowa, especially during the winter; life is simply beautiful, groovy". These people are called Towerites for some reason, and have been known to offer the Tower incense after one of DNU's rare football victories. The Psych department has some terribly Freupian theory about them, dealing with virility worship. 
Unfortunately not everyone has discovered Nirvana at DNU. The place has been in a big uproar recently. It seems the Trustees of the school have come out with a statemnt forbidding any student from tatooing himself. This statement, issued many decades ago, has become the center of a great controversy. Under tremendous student pressure, the Trustees amended their rule to say, "Students of the University may now assume the great responsibility of tatooing-but the University feels it necessary to prohibit the use of radioactive ink in this process". 
Still a great many students are opposed to even this regulation. Cries of "Hall Autarky" and "student rights" have been raised. The principle of the matter seems to be at stake. The Trustees, fur­thermore, found in a survey, that "Ninety percent of the students wouldn't turn in a fellow student for getting tattooed with radioactive ink". HorrifiJd by this complete lack of student responsibility, the Trustees asked the CLS for a list of sanctions against these violations of the moral standards of the University. 
After a mapmoth turnout of students at a CLS meeting, . 
that august body refused to set any sanctions against radioactive tattooing, but instead recommended that the "minimum penalty for m'-'rder be a disciplinary probation", and that halls be allowed to det~rmine their own tattooing laws. 
The Trustees accepted the former proposal, but rejected the latter. Explaining th~ir position, Fr. Headburgerking S.O.S. stated in. a letter, "That the University considers both murder and radioactive tattooing seriJus violations". 
While such strong language was being used, there were very few instances of the regulation being enforced. Only in one or two halls were rectors seen going around with Geiger counters. Thus, feeling that de facto was as good as de jure, PBS John Market asked in a recent letter that the tattooing issue be temporarily dropped, because he was sick of hearing about it. This prompted a vociferous response from certain student leaders. among them, Glen "Fourteen Points Platform" Sarge who demanded that Market immediately use some action, and stqp using crude language. 
Meanwhile the only other big political issue on campus was the Student Whoopee Fund. It seems that CPH chairman, Ed Slogan, recommended that the funds be distributed by a committee of 12 Hall Fuehrers, half a Senator and a mongoose. Hopefully the senator and the mongoose would have previous experience as a hall Fuehrer. 
Plagued with the importance of such cosmic questions, I sought Universal Truth in the Office of Campus Mimickry under Father Ellsworth Phoney S.O.S. As I entered his richly carpeted office with walnut panelled walls, I noticed the intense reverend was busy eating his luncheon lobster, while reading a speech. A sizable group of students were present in the office awaiting patiently new revealation. 
Lobster finished, Father Phoney began, "Gentlemen, wealth and affluence is not asign of God's favor, but a sign of evil". 
"Far out," shouted the Rabble. 
"Wealth is e~il. Amerika is evil, White is evil, Catholic is evil," intoned the Word Incarnate. "Mea Culpa, lmea culpa, mea maxima culpa" shouted the Rabble while beating their breasts. "But by reading Love Story and listening to Jesus Christ, Superstar, 
we can come to a true awareness of our depravity". 
"Oh, wow, groovy". 
Father Phoney executed a subtle dramatic pause. Then he con­
tinued, "Love, my friends is the answer".  1  
Applause.  
"Leonard Bernstein's  new  Mass, People's Peace Treaty, Con­ 

sciousness Three, Ecology, total conversion to Christ," thus sprach Phoney. "Gee, Father,1you're hip. You tell it like it is". The intense eyes drank in the Rabble's glorification; the Plastik Priest knew this sermon would be a classic. "Get high on Jesus," he declared, then paused for the final trium­phant Rabble-rousing word, "Relevance." The Rabble w~nt wild.), myself was caught in the emotion and was soon caught shouting, "Farm out, right arm!" 
I was temporarily embarassed by the lack of hipness. Later, however, I learned that the Rabble were not authentic, but rather professionals. They were hired from Triple E Inc. (Exponential Ego Expansion) by Father Phoney to get his courage up before the big show on Sunday. 
Anyway, I the11left Father Ellsworth Phoney who then proceeded to bleach his hair white as a sepulchre. 

Thursday, November 11, 1~~1 -------------~Til~'E~·~Q~&f.~'E.::'R~~~'E.~'R~-------------------....:!';..:II:.~~R!::....::....S 
rev. maurice powers 
•

the stranger who IS my brother 
Rev. Maurice Powers, C.S.C. is an alumnus of Notre Dame, winner of the Breen Medal for oratory while a student, later becoming a member of the C. S. C.'s. .He was named as one of several chaplains from thl! He!;.• Cross Fathers from Notre Dame. and during his career which touched three continents, he was awarded five separate medals for heroism, merited II campaign battle stars, cited for Com­mendation and five other occasions. 
Anthologies, a derivitive of two Greek words: Anthos <flower> and Legein (to gather>, appeal to the sensitive emotions or our hearLo; and minds. I write as an observer who loves what God has created for us to develop. Out of the universal treasures shared by every age is the art of t•apturing the significance of beauty. Thoughts become a loving tradition; SOUV<'nirs of affection cherished through th<' y<'ars. This one, The Stranger who is my brother is especially dear because I somehow knew him in Normandy, at St. Lo. along the Rhine or in a foxhole the night he was blown to bits in the lonesome hills in the Land of the Morning Calm, as Kor<'a is called. But this Stranger is one you knew too. Listen to him speak in this month of m(•mories, November. "You do not know my name, but you met me once; passed me by on a coach of the Santa Fe or along Highway 66. You ate beside me on Main Street in Altoona, Fort Wayne, M<'mphis, or Mankato. Well, I am dt'ad now! I am one of the thousands of young m(•n who come back in memory this Nov<'mher to you as you kneel in some 
randy s artan 

the blues-paying your dues 
hallowed archway of prayer or in the waking moments of your daily toil." 
"I once stood erect and tall as I raised · 
my hand and swore allegiance to be t'ternally vigilant to protect and defend our Constitution of the United States; her Bills of Rights, namely to protect the privilege to elect. to speak and to worship freely; to defend America with her far-flung prairies and orchard-lands, her mountain-tops of fir and pine, her myriad marts of trade; her men and women dressed in the vest­mcnts of labor; her factories of fervent toil, her shrines of art, her churches bult on freedom's soil; her laws of dece~cy and honor. But, I am dead now! I forfe1ted the unfinished castle of _my dreams-a_ home of tenderness and refmement. I will never grow old or weary; never be a burden to society. That day I fell I made new friends; Men of Ticonderoga a~d Get­tysburg, men of Bastogne, St. Vlt.h, ?Id Baldy. Omaha Beachhead and KwaJalem. 1 joined the serried ranks of men like Washington, . G_rant, Schuyler, Lee, ~a~Arthur, Nm~1tz and Sergeant Y~rk or ( ohn Kelley. L1ke them I stood vahently between our loved h?mes and the madness of those who would hke to fetter me, smash me. stifle ~y voice into o~livion, much as so1_11c co-ex1sters w_ould hke to do today, hemg obsessed w1th the concept that "111ight makes right; that freedom exis~ 
only in domination: That dictatorship IS the only leadership." 
I think he was a good soldier and military man, though fighting was never his business. He was a young man of peace 
"Mr. Boll weevil, you done ate up all my eotton and corn." 
When I hear that blues line, I picture Son Ilouse or Lightning Hopkins sitting on the hack of a truck in the delta country with a batt<'red folk guitar. I see an equally worn old man leaning against one of the tires, softly wailing on a harp. But that blues v<'rSC and other similar ones are being sung in Chicago today. The blues have moved. The scene is changed and the sound has too. At present, Chicago stands as the m<'Cca of the blues. It is what New Orleans and later Nashville were during th<' first thirty years of the century. Yet it is possible to discern the musical roots of today's blues and its new breed of musicians. You can sense the south, the t•ountry navor. in it. 
Basically, the Big City Blues is an in­t<'rmingling of the delta-style Blues with a n<'W expressiveness, renecting the dif­ficulties of urban life. It combines the rich lyricism and introversion of the country with the tense drive and emotionalism found in Chicago's south side tenement t'onditions. 
Two of the City Blues' major artists are Muddy Waters and Howlin' Wolf. Both born in Mississippi during a strained pt•riod in the United States' history !Muddy Waters-1915, Bowlin' Wolf-1910) these two men were notably instrumental in the evolution of the Urban Blues. Muddy Waters was one of the earliest and most successful musicians to electrify. Ilowlin' Wolf contributed by polishing and pt'rfecting this new style. Together they "modernized" the blues from a solo act with an acoustic guitar to an amplified four or fivt'-man band, adding bass guitar, drums, and sometimes brass. The result is the Chicago sound-the distinctive har­monic structure, the pulsating rhythm of the bass line and drums. It is a musical 
. 

form with an incredible history. a favorable future. 
Most people have only a vague notion of what makes the Blues. When speaking of this genre of music, they mention something about "paying your dues", a form of music played in the south or somt'thing along those lines. But what <'Xactly is the Blues? It seems to be a feeling brought about by a certain life­style. The Blues means living a painful t•xistcncc day to day and biographical sketches of various Bluesmen verify this. J<'or the most part, they live tough, poor lives, often working in the fields or at odd jobs during the day just to survive. At night they play in bars or on streetcorners for small change. 
Today the Hlues is experiencing a revival. Some of its musicians have finally been recognized and have become suc­eessful. !B.B. King comes to mind first, being one of the more notable examples.) Whether success detracts from the (•motional stimulus needed to play the real Blues is a different matter altogether. The fact remains that after playing for vir­tually nothing for twenty or thirty years, these artists arc now being discovered. 
Most Blues verses are concerned with th<'mes like lost love, traveling, their wrdched situations and all the feelings that accompany th('Se conditions. But the Blul>s is more than a series of general stat<'m('fltS of personal suffering. It is anexaltation of the criticisms and problems by the artist of an entire people. And tht• actual pt'rforming serves as the antidote to the misery. Accomplished Blm-s musil·ian llogman Maxey sums it up, "Whent'ver you sing the Blues just right. why, you f<'CIIikc a million when you may not have a dimc ... That's the best part of my life. is Blues." 
coward's ..blithe spirit" 
The impossible becomes very real in Noel Coward's "improbable farce," Blithe Spirit, presented by the Notre Dame-Saint 1\lary's Theatre November 12, 13, 18, 19 and 20 at 8:30 pm in Washington Hall. 
The action takes place in the residence 
of  author  Charles  Condomine  in  Kent,  
1-:ngland  during  the  summer  of  '41.  
Bt•eause  ht'  is  making  research  for  a  

111ystery story. Charles invites the ec­t·t•ntric Madame Arcati to conduct a s<'ance so that he can make notes of some of the ·tricks of the trade.' However, the nwdium at'lually conjures up Charles' first wife. 1-:lvira. who has been dead for st'\'en yPars. From then on, the Con­dmnin<' residence is rlung into a series of lnmces and se<Jnces. 
Tit•kt•ts are $2. and $1.50 for students, fat'ultv. ND-SMC staff. Reservations and furlht~r information ran be obtained by t'<liling 284-4141. 
like you or me, I am sure, though he never told me. No soldier ever did, but they believed in peace, and I have known them personally through 13 campaigns as their chaplain. 
Was he born on a farm in Nebraska or Indiana, in a miner's village in Penn­sylvania? Was he from a tenement in the Bronx, a ranch house in Texas? Did he walk along Peach Street in Atlanta or B<'verly Hills? I do not know his name nor his age nor his family. 
1. of the living speak now. He is dead, 
and this stranger lies peacefully in a tomb you." They brush back a tear, move of polished marble from the quarries of silently away down the hillside toward the Vermont and Georgia. The splendor would Potomac, whispering: "May God bless <'mbarrass him. People come from every him and the millions he represents that ~ector of America and from the 126 nations peace prevail over our land." Their ad­or the United Nations Assembly in New miration is awesome, because he is the York. They stand with heads bowed their "Stranger Who is my Brother." hearts touched with thoughts fo~ this In this month of memories let us share soldier they never knew. A sentinel the dedication or this Unknown Soldier who marches in formal manner from dawn to represents so many that we, like him, will dusk, keeping a tryst in an unspoken project the ideals of our nation, our Con­language of peace. They wonder stitution, even at the risk of peril lest we II<' wore an American uniform. and they f'ver vitiate the heroism of those young called him "The Unknown Soldier"; a lll<'n in all brqnches of the Service who tribute. On this magnificent tomb which gave their liv~ that our nation might be 
stands on the heights of Arlington National great, noble, true and blessed. Let us Cemetery the three Graces: Valor, Peace, emulate them, remembering each one of Victory, with palms in their hands, are them may be a stranger, but he was your embossed on one side of the tomb· and on brother. the opposite side is inscribed the beautiful 
jim gres s er 

fr. me laughlin-. . 
A co-defendant with Fr. Phillip Berrigan in the Harrisburg Eight trial, Fr. Neil McLaughlin will be speaking here at Notre Dame this Thursday night in Stepan Center. He will be speaking as part of the Moratorium program which will begin at 7:00pm. and is sponsored by the Program on Non-violence. Fr. McLaughlin has been one or the most active members of the new Catholic Left and has not only expressed his opposition to poverty, racism, war and the draft, but has also done much to eradicate these problems. 
For the great majority of his ministry, McLaughlin has worked among the poor and the black. While still a seminarian in the Baltimore archdiocese, he and his friends inspected tenaments and houses in the poorer neighborhoods for unacceptable conditions and compelled landlords to make due repairs. 
Arter his ordination, he was assigned to St. Martin's parish in Baltimore where he worked mainly with the youth and the elderly of the parish. 
During the severe Baltimore Riots of 1968, McLaughlin provided food for those who needed it and, after the disturbances, 
organized a massive employment project. The project did receive some federal funds, but other than that no government assistance was offered. 
McLaughlin ties very closely the issues of the poor and war. He notes that,"They arc the ones most affected by the war. They are the ones who cannot avoid the draft. They even look forward to it, sometimes, to get out of their neigh­borhoods for a while." 
tribute: "Here Rests In Honored Glory An American Soldier Known But To God." 
I have stood at his tomb many times and read the inscribed epitaph, thinking: ''Here is the stranger who is my brother." As people come, stand silent, as if in prayer, they wonder in a serious, somber mood: "Was he my husband, my brother, my son, my sweetheart?" People have a~ked me if I had knowledge of his birth, h1s age or statehood. I only reply, "He was your countryman, your friend, your brother known only to God. He died for 


sav1ng 11ves 
"Th<'y are the ones you bury when they come back." 
His anti-war feelings got him very in­terested in the Catonsville Nine Trial. He participated in many rallies supporting the Berrigans and also joined the in­terfaith Peace Mission founded by Phillip Berrigan. 
The church reacted typically to his radical actions. They became even more displeased when Fr. Neil announced in August, 1969 that he was a member of the New York Eight, a group responsible for destroying draft records in Brooklyn and the Bronx. 
Aside from dwelling on the racial inequities of the draft, Fr. McLaughlin explains his actions on another plane. "The draft means life or death. If a person breaks into a house on fire to save the life of a child, he isn't arrested. I sse this kind of thing as being a strictly non-violent . form of action_" In February of 1970, Fr. Neil became a priest without an assign­ment and had to resort to driving a cab and doing other odd jobs f or income. Simultaneously, he was fulfilling many speaking engagements on college cam­puses. 
Then came the Harrisburg indictment. In this he was accused of plotting to kidnap presidential aide Henry Kissinger and blow up the heating system in the federal buildings in Washington D.C. He was arrested by FBI agents on January twelfth of this year. 
Fr. McLaughlin. is currently awaiting trial. 

Wa,.,hinl!;lOn IIall · November 12,13, 18 ,19, 20·8:30 

Page 6 T H £__Q!}_~ER £!E~----·----____________:__Th_u_r_sd_a...:...y,~_No_v_e_m_b_er_ll_,_19_71 
SMC tenure: Where do we go? 
(continued from page 1) 
The assembly suggested that 
contracts for non-tenured faculty 
be: 
---issued by ND according to 
original agreement and original 
timetable; 
---alternatively, issued by ND 
to SMC faculty, with SMC funding 
that part of the ND budget so that 
there will be no delay in 
unification; 
---if both of these alternatives 
are unacceptable, issued by SMC, 
ND review process deter­
minative; accompanied by a 
letter (agreement> of intent from 
ND confirming 1973 appointment. 
In the section on contracts for 
tenured faculty, they approved: 
---present tenured faculty issued 1972 ND contract with tenure acknowledged according to original time-table and agreements; 
---alternately, present tenured faculty issued 1972 SMC contract with tenure stipulation that 1973 contract would issue from ND, tenure acknowledged (all other tenure considerations frozen by joint agreement: SMC faculty in 6th year issued terminal 7th year contract with letter of extent of appointment by ND. Individual faculty members may petition for tenure decision from SMC dept.-committee-administration; such action for purposes of record only and not binding on 
ND) 
Forecasting possible changes in the academic departments, the faculty assembly suggested that: 
---time table be met, original terms be implemented, depart­ments be fully unified (staff, program) by 1972; 
·--alternately, that SMC remain a legal and contract issuing entity, but would de facto unify all academic units: that college and departmental authority be shifted to ND (staff, program, unifiedl. 
The assembly only approved one arrangement for the student body. "according to original agreement and timetable, 1973 graduates take ND degree. 1971 and subsequent freshman classes 
matriculate through ND, are subject to ND academic regulation." 
There are four points, one under each category, which the assembly defeated. For the budget, the faculty assembly rejected a plan for separate budgets for 1972·73 with an agreement for subsequent unification to be renegotiated. Under contracts for non-tenured faculty. they disapproved of contracts "issued by SMC with the SMC review process to be 
----------------..­
e MAGIC~ '\~ J a \ o~~ 
stuperfying Natural PHENOMENON The\. 

Swirlin~ ~ 

wi~~':~e 

you WHAT is it? liquid satin locked 
inside a bottle \ CURIOUS? ~yellow, red, green 
choose your color Snpply th~ bottle~ and it will be 
molded to your specifications

~ 
S-PIN THE BOTTLE CALL THE DAIRY QUEEN OF SKOKIE 
AT 5106 
-~-­
..... .... .-.. .. . 
~





tD!Si 

DIAMOND IMPORT 

SAVINGS 

AT FOX'S YOU GET ABIGGER, BETTER QUALITY DIAMOND FOR LESS MONEY! 1 
*SOUTH llENI> *MISHAWAKA 
BUDGET TERMS 

10 per cent Discount to all Notre Dame Students 
NOTRE DAME ACCOUNTS 
I 
drt('l'minativ<>. all subsequent suspt•nded: 1973 SMC graduates "I'm reasonably pleased with agrcemt•nts to be renegotiated." \\'otlld take SMC degrees: 1971 the St. Mary's faculty response to 
The facultv assembly killed a SMt · freshmen would be subject a very nearly intolerable set of 
plan by whi~h "SMC remains de to SMC academic regulations; all demands response to a veryfacto and de jure independent SM'C students would be subject to nearly intolerable set of demands acad<>mic unit, college and SMC departmental and college reaching back to last February,"departments continue to n•gula !ions. he said. He hopes---as do most of l'stablish programs, staff, major "'It is no longer a rna tter of the SMC faculty and students---to requirements." individual self-interest, but a be "reasonably pleased" when 
They also vetoed a suggestion matter of the welfare of the whole the Board of Trustees meet Nov. under which original agreements community," Messbarger ad­19 and 20 to finish their campusand timPtable for student body be morhished. Monopoly game. 
Midwest Blues Festival Nov. 12, 13, & 14 
Tickets will be sold at evening meals Wed. & Thurs. 
3-day pass $6 Single night $2.50 
Tickets also on sale at Student Union Ticket Office 
Sponsored by Cultural Arts Commission 0 






BEER TALK 
In 1rhil'h the i'andid com)oi.l·scur uns11 qrs lfll<'.l'tion.l ahout Beer, and the drinking o/sam<'., 
1
DEAR ED: I'm hurned up hecausc after a weekend romp in the \\'OOlk 
1 
I forgot to put ;r leftover 6-pak of Bud\\'ciser in the refrigcratM. Everyhody say~ you can't chill hecr , twice, so what should I do'? 
FV:\1JNG 
DEAR HlMli\G: 1-ir~t. cool ofT. pal. Then enol ofT that Bud, to your heart's content (or ahout 40°). 
There's no prohlem. hecausc a really good hccr like Budwci~cr is just as good when you icc it twice. 
·*:::-::~t;. 
... ~ ...
But I can't resist mentioninf! that there is an easy way t~ avoid the situation altogetl~er . 
.lust make sure there's no Bud left over' 
I 
Budweiser. 
KING OF BEERS" 
I ANHEUSfk·BUSCH,INC • Sl lOUIS • NfWARK •. lOS AN[GflES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS. JACKSONI/Illf. MlRRIMACK
6 PIONG DIA· 
'495
MOND Ill•••... 

Thursday, November 11, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
leers aiming for highestgoal 
hy .Jim Donaldson from the point, agility and he's a games a year ago, while Williams Sports Editor heady, sharp athlete." Green was was second to Noble in scoring Notre Dame will begin its also the top scoring defenseman 
with 15 goals and 26 assists. 
fourth season of varsity hockey last season, picking up 14 points The third Irish line will have and first in the Western on eight goals and six assists. 
junior Mark Steinborn , a con­
Collegiate Hockey Asc;ociation Sophomore Ric Schafer will be verted defenseman, centering for Green's running mate this year.
tomorrow at the U. of North Larry Israelson, a sophomore,
Dakota with two goals in mind. Schafer is a flashier, offense and senior Jim Cordes. 
"We want to win the national minded defender. 
"All three lines are capable of
championship and prove our­Sophomores Bill Nyrop and getting the job done," Smith
selves as being an outstanding Steve Curry are another solid relates. "Steinborn's line does ateam in the Notre Dame athletic defensive combination. "Nyrop's fine job of forechecking and is
tradition," Irish head coach a tremendous hockey player ­always hustling. Noble's lineCharles "Lefty" Smith says. very smart," Smtih says. "And excels at playmaking and has a
Those are lofty aims for such a Curry is steady and toul!h." 
great deal of fineese while
young learn but Smith is con­Two freshmen, Les Larson and Campbell's line combines both
fident that his club can meet the D'Arcy Keating comprise the qualities."
challenge. "In my opinion, we're third Irish defensive pair. "We At times, the Irish may also
25 to 30 percent better than we feel we can throw Larson in at were last year," Smith says. any time," Smith relates. play a line of Joe Bonk, Pat 
Conroy and Tom Lindsey.
"Offensively we have more "Keating has a great shot "the 
speed, we're moving the puck termen returning, including all balanced front lines. Irish coach adds. ' "We still lack good depth," better and we're scoring better. three goalies and last season's Senior Dick Tomasoni heads Smith says. "If we have one or
Smith will be able to send three four top scorers. There are also the Irish netminding crew. Last
We have more talent and ex­strong lines onto the ice this year, two players out at one time with 
perience up front and, as a result, some top notch freshman year's Most Valuable Player, he injuries we'll still be in pretty
all capable of putting the puck 
more finesse." prospects on hand who figure owns virtually every Irish good shape but if we lose three at
into the opposition's net with
The 1971-72 hockey Irish cer­prominently in coach Smith's goaltending record. Tomasoni once, we'll be in trouble".
regularity.
tainly have the potential to im­plans. returned to Notre Dame this fall The Irish face a grueling
John Noble, Notre Dame's
prove on last season's 13-16-2 Notre Dame is solid at every after a spring tour of Europe with campaign in the months ahead.
leading scorer in his first two
record. Although Notre Dame is a position, boasting experienced the U.S. National Team. Notre Dame is officially a 
years with the Irish, will center
young club <only three seniors goaltending, what Smith terms "Tomasoni possesses great member of the WCHA this season
for junior Paul Regan and fresh-
will skate against North Dakota "the best defensemen in the quickness and a good glove and will play 26 of their 32 games this weekend> there are 19 let-country", and three well-hand," Smith relates. man Ray Delorenzi. Noble tallied against association teams. 14 of 
Sophomore Mark Kronholm 16 goals and 27 assists as a them on the road. Last year, the
Jim Donaldson =========:::=============::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=: and junior Chris Cathcart will sophomore in the 70-71 campaign Irish hung up a 7-11-2 record seve as Tomasoni's backup men. while Regan netted 12 goals and 
against WCHA teams. 
Kronholm, a three-time All­picked up 22 assists. Delorenzi is "We're very happy about being 
The Irish Eye 
Minnesota selection, posted a strong skater with a booming in the WCHA," Smith says. "It is
Notre Dame's only shutout last slap shot. 
the premier college hockey
Lit tie f arne and much obscurity year in a 5-0 win over Air Force Freshman John Campbell will league in America. We'll be 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::~:::::~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:=:~:~:;:::::::::::::;:::::::::::::::::. and Cathcart had a mere 2.83 center another Irish line, with 
facing first class competitionOffensive linemen are the blue collar workers of footi:iaii. ·They;re goals against average in six sophomores Ian Williams and night after night and we'll be
supporting actors--they never get to play the lead or receive the ap­games last season. Eddie Bumbacco on the wings. 
looking to finish at the top of theplause that goes to the stars. They slave to build the pyramids of fame The top five defensemen from a Campbell is an outstanding standings."
that enshrine those Gods of the Gridiron, the ball carriers. year ago are all back again. 
prospect who does a fine job of
Most anyone who watched the Irish demolish Pittsburgh last Heading this crew is junior co­"Although we're one of the
playmaking. Bumbacco and younger teams in the league, we
Saturday remembers that Ed Gulyas gained 20 yards on a curcial captain Bill Green. Sizing up Williams both possess good speed 
Green's play, Smith says, "Bill feel that we can hold our own withthird down draw play in Notre Dame's first scoring drive and that Cliff and powerful-shots. Bumbacco anyone," Smith adds. "We wantBrown recorded the longest Irish run from scrimmage this year, a 47 has shown the best defensive scored 15 goals and had 15 to be the best team in the coun­
yard quarterback sneak. But not many people recall that it was Mike strength on the team so far. He's Creaney's block that sprung Gulyas loose, or that Dan Novakov threw a great leader. He has a good shot assists, despite missing six try." a key block to get Brown into the open field. 
J<:very once in a while, a lineman will make an open field block that 
Gulyas is back in the running
the crowd sees, or come up with an especially important play, such as .Jerry Kramer did in the 1967 NFL title game, and receive some praise. 
by Lefty R!Jschmann '73
Hut, for the most part, all the acclaim an offensive lineman gets is from his teammates and coachs. Any dreams that Ed Gulyas
Linemen labor ingloriously in "the pits", trying to budge a 260 pound might have had about defendingdefensive player a few feet. Or attempting to keep that big, hard his team rushing title were charging defensiveman from reaching the quarterback. It could be killed early in this season's considered a thankless job. opener against Northwestern, 
But the players who comprise Notre Dame's offensive line don't thanks to a broken fibula which think it is. It's a source of pride to them that they are, in essence, the sidelined him for five contests. In men that make the Irish attack click. most colleges throughout the 
"They play with a great deal of intensity," line coach Wally Moore land, a college coach who loses said after Notre Dame'svictoryover Pitt. "I'm real pleased with their his number -one ground -gainerhustle and with their umty." l'ither pulls out his hair, offers 
The Irish front line did a fine job against the Panthers, enabling the burnt sacrifices to appease the Notre Dame backs to run for 464 yards, their best performance this gods, or both. But all Coach season. "We controlled the point of attack and blew 'em right off the Parseghian had to do was reach line," Moore remarked. into his bottomless sack of 
Notre Dame's offensive line is a talented group of individulas runners and continue on his 
The center, Dan Novakov, not only acts as the pivot man but also, as merry way. As Ed readilythe only senior in the line, provides much needed leadership. Coach concedes, "I don't think the team Moore rates the two-time letterman highly and calls Dan "one of the was hurt by my absence." better centers in the country". 
Even so, the 5 -II, 190 pound
Tight end Mike Creaney is probably the biggest "star" in the of­
senior showed what stuff he was
fensive line. He certainly had his hour in the spotlight after making his made of last Saturday. Against years. He came to Notre Dame
game-winning catch of Pat Steenberge's two-point conversion pass inconsistent? He's got to stick 
the Pitt Panthers, Gulyas was
against Purdue. But Creaney is also as good a blocker as he is a pass as "a student", deciding to play with one man." 
runner-up to Cliff Brown in the when freshman tryouts rolled Taking his in discussing
catcher. turn 
runshing parade. Even then, he
Junior guard John Kondrk looks like the ideal offensive lineman -around. A lifelong running back the offense, Gulyas points to the 
was still bothered by a limp and lick of defen­
big and mean. He could play the villain in any television series. His ("I didn't play a l'arly season shuffling of back­
the pains that went with it. And se") he was shifted to defensive
play on the gridiron often makes opponents think he's evil. Off the fields as a source of trouble. field, however, he's a sensitive guy with an interest in art and a grade Pitt's artificial turf didn't help back, made the varsity and won "We didn't play as a unit until point average that's almost half his number (77). him either: "I think that ar­his athletic scholarship at that just recently, when Cliff Brown
tificial turf is good for healthy position. Finally, in mid-fall of
His running mate at guard, sophomore Frank Pomarico, is like the began to find himself at quar­
players," Ed explained, "but it
All-American kid, grown up. Crew cut and quiet, Pomarico sometimes his sophomore year, Ara shifted terback." Emphasizing the 
can aggravate injuries because it him to his natural position,
find it hard to believe that he's playing for Notre Dame. There are a lot soundness of the Irish attack, he
doesn't 'give' laterally." 
of people from North Carolina, Navy, Pitt and such places that wish he halfback. Last year, his junior offered the loss to Southern Cal as 
weren't. campaign, he rolled up 588 yards
Add to that the limited practice an example: "McKay had to 
If somebody asked you who played the most minutes of any Notre time he had -all the running he in 127 carries for five touch­gamble against us the last 
two 
Dame player last year, what would you say? Theismann? Patulski? did was limited to the week downs, and , before the injury, years in a row. So it worked two Kelly? The answer is John Dampeer, Notre Dame's right tackle. between the Navy and Pitt Irish fans expected more of the years in a rwo, it just can't work Dampeer spent 331 minutes on the field last season as a sophomore. games. "I wasn't able to run same steady ball from Gulyas consistently. This year, two slipsWeek after week, he turns in a consistently fine performance. until then because of the calcium this season. on a wet field cost us the game."Jim Humbert manned the other tackle spot until he was injured d(•posits which built up." Just Like the rest of his team­As for next year, Gulyasagainst Southern Cal. Sophomore Dave Casper, a converted tight end, imagine a healthy Ed Gulyas, maates, Ed has been disap­promised an offense "as ex­has stepped in for Humbert and performed most capably. with sufficient practice time and pointed in the criticism of the pPrienced as our defense is this 
"Dave has done a trmendous job of picking things up," coach Moore playing a full game. Notre Dame offense. "Everyone Sl'ason." said, speaking of Capser's switch from tight end to tackle. "It's a · the fans and the writers, too -
Gulyas' rise to leadership thinks he-s an armchair quar­Looking back on his four years
difficult thing to do," Moore added. 
among Irish running backs was at Notre Dame, Ed considers his
A reporter congratulated Casper on his play against the Panthers tPrhack. Take, for instance, the stay here to have been beneficial: 
last weekend, particularly in view of the fact that he had to learn a new cl'rtainly tllll'Xpl'cted. Playing criticism of our quarterbacks. 
his high school hall in San Carlos, You can't run a team yanking one "l'vp l'njoyed it, for the most
position so quickly, but Casper shrugged off the praise and said, "I just do my job''. He's that kind of guy. Calif., lte rscapPd recognition quarterback, and putting in part. There have been ups and 
downs, of coursl', but the overall
That's the way the Irish offensive line works. They just do their job-· ratlwr simply: his school team anothl'r all the time. llow can a 
won all of three games in three coach get any respect if he's PxpPriPnce has been mvaluable." 
SUP<'rbly. 


-
Thursday, November 11; 1911
THE OBSERVER 
....-. 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 





