In wa.r's biggest push 
•
Allies mass 50,000 men 1n Indochina 
SAIGON (UPI) -The United States and South Vietnam com­mitted nearly 50,000 men Thursday in twin drives to crush Communist sanctuaries and sup­ply lines in Indochina. South Vietnamese troops went into Cambodia and 20,000 more· were pojsed for orders to strike into Laos. 
The combined allied opera­tion in northwestern South Viet­nam and Cambodia was believed to be the biggest of the Indo­china War and drew warnings from Peking that Commu:1ist China would support the Com­munists "until final victory." 
Included in the big northern task force which was halted within sight of the Laotian fron­tier, were 9,000 Americans and 20,000 South Vietnamese who started the offensive six days ago. Casualties were reported very low with no American bat­tle deaths in the first six days of the operation carried out under strict secrecy lifted only Thurs­day morning. 

Officials in Saigon continued to keep silent on the possible incursion into Laos, but the commander of South Vietnam's airborne division at the Laotian border said "We are ready to go into Laos if we are ordered to." The U.S. State Department did not rule out such a possibility. 
The United States reaffirmed that no U.S. ground troops would participate if a drive into Laos is ordered and said no American ground troops had crossed into Cambodia in the new offensive there. The United States has not ruled out air support, however. 

The Laotian communist lead­er, appealed to neutralist Lao­tian Premier Prince Souvanna Phouma to stop any possible South Vietnamese drive into Laos, a Pathet Lao news broad­cast said Thursday. 
"The entry of Saigon puppet troops into Laos will constitute a big disaster to our country just as they have been doing to Cam­bodia," the Communist message said. 
U.S. military spokesmen said the joint U.S. South Vietnamese operation in the northern quar­ter of South Vietnam on the Laotian border covered a I ,000 square mile area of rugged ter­
rain across two provinces. 
The American 5th Mechan­ized Division, moving against almost no resistance, seized and reopened the onetime U.S. Marine base at Khe Sanh, aban­doned after a 77 day Communist siege in the spring of 1968. 

Soplls hardest lilt 

Room squeze on in dorms 
upperclassmen returning for
by John Gallogly Halls find themselves is the 
next year. Two-thirds of these
The Residence Halls on method by which the great
halls' populations consists of this 
campus are faced with a problem n urn ber of people will be
year's Freshman class and the
of large proportions for the evicted. There are two possible
incoming one. There is going to
coming academic year. The solutions to this as seen by
be a squeeze for living space and, 
causes of this problem are three­Kurtzman an·d Cassini. They are
according to both Mark
fold: The large number of Fresh­a basic grade-point average,
Kurtzman Zahm Hall President
men admitted last year, the large under which no Freshman will
and Joe Cassini Flanner Hall
number which must be admitted be allowed to return to the
President, this year's Freshman
again this year, and the increase Halls. The alternative to this
class is going to be caught up inin upper-classmen remaining in 
system is an in-class lottery
it. Kurtzman estimates thatthe Halls due to the Stay-Hall 
amongst the Freshman class. No
20-25 of the next 'year'sinitiated two years ago. 
matter which method the Halls
Sophomore class will have to beThe problem is greatest in 
choose, there will have to be, in
asked to leave Zahm Hall. This,Zahm and Flanner Halls. Both 
the words of Cassini, someone
he emphasized, is over and,.above
Halls have a high percentage of 
who will be "pimped."
those who voluntarily 'switch Halls or move off campus.
Board meets 
Cassini estimates the number to be even higher in Flanner Hall 


to re-examine Student co-ed committe 
where upperclassmen may 
"freeze" their rooms, holding
Alumni role them for as many years as they reports expected today 
are in the University. He put the
by Greg Rowinski 
number of present Freshmen
The Board of Directors of the by Matt Cavanaugh final report will be compiled by tary report. Tim Connor, Notre
who will be asked to leave at
Notre Dame Alumni Association February 29 and presented by Dame Student Government spec­
between 40 and 50.
is in the middle of its winter & Ed Ellis the student governments at the ial projects coordinator, has
Some Halls, such as Morrissey
meeting here on campus. Board Preliminary outlines are due March meeting of the Board of been directing the groups'
and Alumni, will not be badly
members, representing the 15 today from the 13 committees Trustees. search, and most of the Student
hurt this year, because of either
geographical, regions, have con­of the combined Notre Dame -The purpose of the supple­Government Cabinet officers
large graduating classes or large
vened to take an "introspection St. Mary's Student Government mentary report is to fill areas in from both campuses are taking
numbers of undergrads moving
of the organization", according "Supplement to the Mayhew­-the Park May-Mayhew report be­part in the compilation of the
off-campus.
to Mr. Robert McGoldrick, Park Report." More "meat" is to lieved by student leaders to be report.
Others, however, will be in
Chairman of the Student Affairs added to these outlines as the lacking. A poll of students on The major areas under study
much the same straits as Flanner
Commission. The group will also committees gather their informa­both campuses will be run by include problems directly affect­
and Zahm. Badin and Howard
discuss such issues as fund tion,and a rough draft is to be the Sociology Departments and ing the student bodies, such as
must depose between 15 and 20
raising, admissions, annexation, submitted to the coordinating the opinions thus reflected will Housing, Dining facilities, Social
each. The problem in which the
and co-education. committee by February 24. The be presented in the supplemen-Affairs, and Student Services. In this first of three annual Also, financial, physical, and ac­meetings, the Board will consi­ademic matters, which concern
Complete reorganization proposed 
der ways of making the Alumni the students to a lesser degree, a more efficient "liaison directly but must be resolved in order for between the University and any closer cooperation between

for Notre Dame and St. Mary's
45,000 alumni," summarized the two schools to materialize. President Robert Erkins. Fund The Admissions Committee, raising has always been one of the initiative of its authors. include St. Mary's College of chaired by Student Government
by Steve Lazar
the alumni's most vital activities, The new model that the plan Liberal Arts, Holy Cross Junior Human Relations Commissioner
Observer Campus Editor
and future methods will be sets up for the University of College, The Theodore Hesburgh Orlando Rodriguez, met last 
discussed. According to The Runde Report, a three Notre Dame is essentially a College of Graduate Studies, the night to draw up their rough 
McGoldrick, the annual contri­month old proposal drawn up by simple one that can be best Cardinal O'Hara College of Med-draft. According to Rodriguez, 
butions from alumni amount to four members of the St. Mary's­understood by a glance at the -icine, The Moreau College of the major problem areas will be 
more than the endowments faculty, is a plan that urges diagram included in the report. Sacred Theology, and the Made­admission standards, financial 
received by Ivy League schools. without hesi tatiort a significant It proposes that the leva College of Fine Arts, as well aid, and minority recruitment, 
The role of alumni in under­restructuring of Notre Dame and University be composed of ten as separate Colleges of Business, since St. Mary's has no minority 
writing expenses for needy St. Mary's. fully independent coeducational Science, Law and Arts and Let­aid program to speak of and 
applicants and other matters It proposes, that there be no Colleges, an administration, and ters. only 19 minority students. 
concerning admissions practices less than full and complete coed­two University Senates for stu­As independent colleges, each G he Finanace Committee, 
will also be on the agenda. ucation in every ·college and de­dent and faculty. of these could be self-governing, chaired by National StudenHAss­
The Board will issue a report partment of the University. The most significant depart­both academically and financial­ocia tion Coordinator Steve 
to its constituents on the Authored by Fr. Raymond ures from the present structure ly, and each would determine its Novak. also met last night to 
now-closed issue of annexation, Runde and the Doctors Bohan, of Notre Dame that the report own rate of tuition. discuss the cost of various pro­
related Erkins. No formal state­Detlef and Hinkemeyer, the offers are in the organization of Each College would have its jects. According to Novak, his 
ments on co-education will be report is entitled An the ten Colleges. The plan pro­own Board of Governors com­committee will study only pro­
released because, Erkins Organizational Model of poses that there be either new posed of its President, three fac­grams of other committees for 
emphasized, it would only be ND-SMC. Sponsored by neither colleges within the University to ulty members, two students, and their financial feasibility. 
the opinion of 15 men. The Notre Dame nor St. Mary's, the replace most of the ones current­five commun;ty lea~erji,_Jhe five Ti,m Connor was unavailable 
(Continued on Page 8) report was undertaken solely on ly operating. These new Colleges (continued on page 2} for comment 
Page 2 Friday, February 5, 1971
THB OJrsDlfJER 
Art 



Runde advocates reorganization
Auction 

Picasso  Dali  
Miro,  Calder  
Chagall  Friedlaender  
Searle  Rouault  
Vasarely  and others.  

Sun, Feb. 7th Ramada I.m 3allroom 
Exhibition 1-3 pm 
Auction 
3:00pm 
All works custom-framed Prices start as low as $15 Admission Free 
(Continued ji·om Page 1) \) 1111 \1/t_, $ 1ty ctt \)cd,e.. .D4WIC,. 
community people would be se­lected from anywhere in the nation by a "National Panel of Educators". Three of these lead· ers would have "extensive exper­
ience" in some aspect of higher 
education and two in some as­
pect of finance. 

The University Board of Trus­tees would then be composed of one of the community leaders from each of the ten colleges along with the Chancellor of the University who would be a mem­ber ex officio. 
The reasons given in the re· port for such a restructuring of the University are ·threefold. First, the authors intend to solve the problem of student and fac­ulty pressure for coeducation in a way they think best for all involved. Secondly, they want to eliminate the economic waste due to needless duplication of effort on the two campuses. As a final, and "ultimate" concern, 
Visual representation of Fr. Runde's proposed restructuring of Notre Dame and St. Mary's they express their desire to a­chieve the "most beneficial form tions Notre Dame and St. Mary's intention was to point a definite arts college. of education" as understood' by are taking. direction the College could take Although the report is three all participants in the academic They say that their plan is a in order to avoid the "tragic" months old, neither Notre Dame community. "framework" in which some consequences that would result nor St. Mary's has yet expressed The authors propose their form of "creative structure" can from an attempt to maintain the any interest in the plan. 
plan as an alternative to the be worked out. Specifically, status quo or from a retrench· "eclectic drift" which they say with regard to St. Mary's, their ment to an all women's liberal currently characterizes the direc-

THE LITTLE FOXES 
BY lillian Hellman 
WASHINGTON HALL Feb. 19,20,25,26,27 
Tickets 1.50 

at'8:30 PM & 
Information 284-4176
Feb. 21 at 2:30PM 

ROGERS OPTICAl 
Complete Spectacle Service Glanes Duplicated Your Doctor's RX Filled 
L•raest selection of •••ires" 
214 S. Michigan (next to State Theatre) 289 7809 




Experimental college may estat~lish a co-ed hall on cam pus 
opens new ways of teaching and ject of directed reading.
by ·Kevin McGill 
learning and exploring interdis-· year will be divided into Sophomore Year Program may ciplinary ways of inquiry." number of "units" rangingprovide a "residential coeduca­
About 55 women and 85 men one to six weeks in length. tional cross-college program" will be able to participate in the "unit" will deal with the t for next year's sophomores. Experimental Junior Year. They of Man in Nature in relation t According to Sister Suzanne 
will be chosen from all under· such disciplines as econ Kelly, chairman of the Advisory 
graduate areas and all academic systems, history, philosophy, th Board that planned the program, levels of Saint Mary's and No­history of science, or literature the proposal is ready to be pre­tre Dame. Selection of those A faculty member in a sented to the academic councils who apply will be made by a cular discipline will be of Saint Mary's and Notre Dame committee in early spring who sible for one "unit." At and if it is approved it will go. 
will strive for a "diversified stu­beginning of the week's work, h into effect next year. 
will deliver a lecture to th The program would enroll dent body which reflects the ap­
'titudes and attitudes of the broa­complete faculty and student I40 students who would live in 
der Saint Mary's-Notre Dame group designed to lead the grou one residence hall and partici­
into the topic through his parti· pate in communal and individual 
community." 

cular discipline. During the rest 
~~~~~~~~~~~._..~~~~ 
learning experiences as well as The proposal suggests that 
of the week, small discussion regular outside classes. Holy Cross Hall be used in the 
groups will meet with individual
t live Entert2in ment t The purpose of the Experi­program because of the 
faculty members. mental College as presented in separated residence facilities, the 
The committee which drew 
. t Wed. to Sat. Dancing t 
the proposal, "is to create a space available for seminars and 
up the proposal hopes the pro·
t t community of teachers and community activities, the dining 
gram will provide for diversity at
?:Itt learners wherein the primary facilities, and its location. Since 
Saint Mary's-Notre Dame by
incentive to study and learning
t vUikllt/{1 t community is emphasized, an ' offering to faculty and students 
flows from a desire to partici­evening meal which the students
"THE ENTERTAINER TO THE MIDWEST'' alternative teaching and learning
t t pate fully in the life of the help prepare, serve, and clean up 
experiences.

525 North Hill Street 
community. This community after, will be available, and the
t t
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46619 should provode an alternative members of the hall will also b Egypt extendst t environment, one which will responsible for daily mainten­.Attended Parking heighten the student's sense of ance. The co-rectors (a man and By United Press International
t In the Rear t his own possibilities, reaffirm woman) and other staff mem­Egypt agreed Thursday night the value of education as a bers will have advisory rather to extend the middle east ceaset t means to individual self-realiza­than disciplinary functions. fire 30 days, easing fears of an 
THURSDAY NIGHT IS UNIVERSITY NIGHT
, 
tion, and minimize the impor­There will be one full time imminent renewal of full scale
t t 
tance of distant and uncertain faculty member, and eight hostilities. Arab and Isreali guns
t career goals or arbitrary rewards others will devote half their time along the heavily fortified Suez Everyone's Wtlcome and penalties as prods to learn­to the Experimental Sophomore Canal remained silent early Fri­t t ing." Year. day after the midnight end of 
Happy Hour 5-9 Daily 
"The Program offers an The formal academic program the old truce period.
t t
All beverages $.60 
opportunity for flexibility," said will consist of a six credit hour "All is quiet -at least for the 
during'Happy Hours
t t Fr. David Burrell, who helped core-seminar and three addi­time," an Isreali military spokes­~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~._.. prepare the proposal," and it tional hours of an elective pro-man said in Ts.l Aviv. 

CLEAN UP AT MARDI GRAS WSND 
Gilbert's Gift Certificat~es, Bogus Bucks, Records, and ....~. Bubbles! All f1ree from clean radio, WSND. Stop by our bo,oth. 
Page 3

Friday, February 5, 1971 
THB OB#Rflllt 
Hall report to recommend Co-ed '" • Flonner 
by Dave McCarthy 
A report proposing that Flan­
ner Hall be made into a co-edu­
cational dormitory in the fali of 
1971 is expected to be released 
Friday, February 12, by that 
hall's Academic Commission. 
According to Mike George, co-chairman of the Flanner Aca­demic Commission, the report 
oses that one of the Flanner 

F1 ('~ h e1et' t jf.,int t' <'lin(' il 
Twenty-three St. Mary's fresh­men and Forty NO frosh were elected Wednesday night to serve on the newly-formed joint ND/ SMC Freshman Assembly. 
The representatives from Notre Dame, by halls, are the following. Alumni: Glenn Sorge, Tom "Tex" Petray; Badin: Gerry Lutkus, Dan Berry: Breen­Phillips: John Morin, Joe Wisen­berger; Dillon: Mike "Tex" Anderson, Ance Day; Farley: Kerry Temple, Dan Duffy; Fish­er: Rick Gering, Rick Klee; Flan­ner: Mike Stokes, Dan Dekavak, Barry O'Neill; Grace: Lawrence Lewis, Dave Batow, Rich Raw­son; Holy Cross: Jack Mardoian, Kevin McKernan; Howard: John Murphy, Garry Pannone; Keen­an: Dan Schipp, John Thor~ton; Lyons: Joe Higgins, Ralph Brun­eau; Morrissey: Jim Fister, Bob Donovan; Pangborn: Gene Aleci, Joe Marino; Stanford: Randy Epping, Steve Gilmore; St. Ed­wards: Rich Donovan, Frank McLaughlin; Sorin: Earl Glock, John Murtaugh; Walsh: John Doellman, Bill Simon; Zahm: Gary Sobolewski, Grant Knapp. 
St. Mary's representatives are: 
Diane Sonne, Martha May, Judy 
Rauenhorst (Regina South); Ann 
Cassilly, Terri Rogge, Barb 
Robinson, Mary Jo Rohman, 
Theresa Willke (Regina North); 
Mary Ann Shahade, Kris Kerri­
gan, Sheila Edwards, Debbie 
Rohman, Mary Clar<' Molidor, 
Mary Ann Foy (Holy Cross); 
Linda McKenzie, Mary Jo 
Davis, Dianne Chermside, Nancy 
Tuohy ( Le Mans). 
Five othe; SMC representa­
tives have not yet been reported. 
Henry Aaron, who ranks third on the all-time home run list behind Babe Ruth and Willie Mays with 592 career homers, is 37 today. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notr.e Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
towers house women and the admissions have increased each other house men. of the last few years. Soon hous­
"There would be separation ing may become critical, he along a vertical plane (e.g. eleva­claimed. However, if St. Mary's tors)," he said. allowed about 250 women to 
One of the problems, George live in Flanner while admitting commented, was the number of about 150 men into Regina it available beds in Flanner. There would net about I00 beds and are about 250 beds in each of save itself the expenses of reno­Flanner's towers. If the Univer­vating several of the dormitories, sity can be persuaded not to George stated. house freshmen in Flanner next George feels that the plan will fall and if some present residents also benefit Notre Dame. The accept "an attractive alterna­University would not lose any tive," George thinks the neces­money; for the St. Mary's wo­sary space will be available. men in Flanner would pay room 
George speculated that the and board to Notre Dame, he "attractive alternative" might be claimed. Also, the plan George the converting of the north wing said, "is the first step toward of St. Mary's Regina Hall into a co-ed houstng. It is some 
men's residence. thing Notre Dame has got to He explained that St. Mary's get in on if it is going to attract 


Laird defends Abrams for Indochina blackout 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -De­fense Secretary Melvin R. Laird suggested yesterday that the stringent six day embargo on news of the allied campaign near the Laotian border was a success because no American had died in combat. 
The news blackout, tightest in the I 0 year history of the Indo­china War, was ended in Saigon at 3:30 a.m. EST yesterday after it was imposed by Gen. Creigh­ton W. Abrams;U.S. commander in Vietnam, last Friday with Washington's consent. 
The Saigon press corps was fully briefed in the offensive by 20,000 South Vietnamese and 9,000 backup American troops in the five northernmost provin­ces of South Vietnam, Laird said. Eut newsmen were forbid­dea to report developments dur­ing the embargo, on penalty of loss of accreditation. There was no direct censorship of news dispatches. 
During a question and answer session with visiting high school students leaders at the Pentagon, Laird said the embargo was necessary to "protect American lives ... this movement of forces was accomplished without a sin­gle casualty being attributed to enemy action in Military Region One." 
The embargo, he said, had "achieved its objective." 
News blackouts have been im­posed many times in the past in Vietnam, although not as pro­longed, to preserve the element of surprise at the start of major offensives. Initial dispatches from Saigon Thursday indicated that allied forces moving east­ward below the Demilitarized Zone toward the Laotian border had met little Communist resis­tance. 
Laird stressed repeatedly that 
the embargo was Abrams' idea 
and that "I'm not going to sec­
ond guess him." 
M•rdl Gr•• Concert 
friday, february 5 
8:30 in the ace 
tickets $5, $4, $2 at the student union ticket office (4-5 pm) and at the dining halls. 
presented by student union social commission & ace 
the top notch students." hew report, George feels that the 
The report is the result of FAC report is valuable because it both the men and women on the is specific. "I was disappointed Flanner Academic Commission, in Park-Mayhew," he said, "be­who have worked on it since cause it did not make specific September. Although not so recommendations on co-ed broad in scope as the Park-May-housing. 



MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15pm Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, CSC 
8:30 am Sun. Fr. Oaniel Curtin, CSC 9:45am Sun. Fr. James Buckley, CSC 
11:00 am Sun. Fr. Andrew Ciferni, 0. Praem. 
12:15 pm. Sun. Fr. '-'Villiaon Toohey, CSC 
M I D W E S T 'S L A R G E S T D IS P L A Y 0 F 
NEW AND USED SPORTS CARS 



a =(Om rJ 

CONTINENTAL MOTORS INC. 
5800 S. LA GRANGE RD. 
LA GRANGE, ILL. 352-9200 






thetn 
c 
, 
:a 

Ill I 
Ill 
en 



Page 4 

THE OBJDfiU. 
THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper 
Glen S. Corso, Editor -In -Chief 
Bruce Rieck, Business Manager 
All successful newspapers are ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. TheY never defend anything or anyone if they can help it; if the job is forced upon them, they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L.Mencken, Prejudices 
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 

Bold New Move(maybe) 
This year has seen precious few promising developments. Among the most promising has been the proposed Experimental College, which, if all things go well, will initiate next year's Sophomore Class into one of the boldest and most exciting programs in modern Education. 
Perhaps the most bold is the potential the program has to synthesize our knowledge of man in the new "Man in Nature" series. Although it is doubtful that the course can in any way be more than a rough survey of man's relationship to philosophy, history, economics, literature and the 
history of science, this program comes closer than any other at this Uni­versity to synthesizing knowledge in an internally consistent pattern. 
The unique relationship between student and faculty member in the new Experimental College cannot but add an extra dimension of vitality to student participation. The pharse "small discussion groups" appears again and again in the report; it bespeaks of the most successful form of imparting knowledge. 
The living conditions will be, of course, the sanest and most reasonable on campus if the proposal is accepted by the Academic Councils of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. The proposal will eliminate the unnatural and unusual residential discrimination -by sex -and the self-sufficiency part of the proposal is entirely consistent with the general attitude of self-determination. Maid service for self-government is a better than even swap, one that perhaps should have been made some time ago. 
Experiments are by their very nature risky, and by their nature impermanent. If the Academic Councils of Notre Dame and St. Mary's accept the proposal, they would be making one of the most bold moves these two campuses have agreed upon during the last decade. But we believe it is a bold move that is not a little overdue, and one that should be made now. 

On the Nature of Politics 
bility. They abdicate their initiative to stude-t government and can become aroused only on veryIn recent years, student politics at Notre Dame immediate and specific issues. Last Spring Davehas turned on catch phrases such as "Christian Krashna was elected to change the atmosphere atCommunity" and "meaningful dialogue" and Notre Dame. But no person can even attempt thisUtopian ideas such as Phil McKenna's University by himself -it requires the backing, or at least theSenate that doesn't appear any closer now than active interest, of the student body. An SBPthe day he was elected. But, in fact, student should lead rather than create student opinionsgovernment has been effective only when applying and objectives.
its energies to specific issues i.e. parietal hours, car The most extraordinary example of unity that I privileges etc. The attempt to take on ideas and have witnessed at Notre Dame was last Springlife styles has been largely unsuccessful despite the during the strike. People were interested and efforts of our current president. What it comes participated in the decision making process. An down to is this: What should be the duties and outgrowth of this has been Dave Krashn 'a call for aims of elected ·officials? Is it Richard Rossi a General Assembly February 16, 17, and 18. All pathetic:J11y telling uncaring freshman "We got students are free to make proposals and vote on soul"? Is it Fred Dedrick manning the barricades issues concerning student life. The proposalsin front of the placement office? Ideally: no. 
passed will be presented to the ND trustees in Politics for the Soring seem to be shaping up March as a statement of student opinion. The somewhat worse than in past years. The only SBP General Assembly, as an attempt to gather student candidate that has come to my attention is making opinion on a broad spectrum of issues that a frighteningly cold and analytical bid for power. 
confront students, is only a step towards a truer The result has been a desperate casting about in understanding of what politics is constituted. It is the student government camp for a.candidate of a step that still deals only with issues, rather than the proper philosopher-king type. Maybe the with a broad philosophy or life-style: upon which outcome will not matter at all. 
to base particular acitons. But it is a step that mustThe problem <lt Notre Dame is that students are be made before we charge off, degrees in hand, to not willing to accept their own political responsi­save the world. 
6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-..... ~..-.~~ ...---~~1
t Managing Editor: Bill Carter Advertising Manager: Bruce Barker News Editor: Ed Ellis Ass't News Editor: Pat Tyrrell t 
t 
t Editorial Pa~ Editor: T.C. Treanor Night Editor: Dave Bach • Features ~ditor: Dave ~ammers Headlines: Everybody ' 
Sports Editor: Terry Shields Layout: Everybody • Campus Editor: Steve Lazar Controller of the Night: rick smith ' 
~~~~.-..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Friday, February 5, 1971 

COME 
YOU WITH OPEN MIND.•• 

This is the Way the Year Ends 
The really great thing about the way the year's been scheduled is 
that all the neat backstabbing and stuff that goes before a student 
body presidential election begins a whole month earlier. Since the 
new SBP has to assume offi~e on April first (traditionally Notre 
Dame's Patriot's Day) and Spring vacation immediately precedes 
inauguration day, and midterms immediakly precedes Spring 
vacation, we may elect a successor to Dr. Krashna before the first of 
March. This, of course, has thrown all the main politicos into quite a 
panic; they have to whoop up their campaigns and whoop the up 
quickly. 
SG's on the defensive; we find that they really did invent free 
coffee in the Rathskeller; they also invented free wncerts (three) 
and got the huddle open late (they did). Beyond that, they haven't 
robbed us blind or lost our money on the way back (they didn't), 
and besides, they had to fight the combined forces of the World, the 
Flesh, and the Devil, vis. the Student Senate, University dogmatism, 
racism (see cartoon, above), fascism, slowism, and the Daily Rag. 
What Great Fun! 
They've done more posturing than a contortionist, but the best is 
yet to be. It turns out that somebody has to come along and finish 
the unfinished business (i.e. everything) of the present 
administration. You watch; the argument may go like this: this is a 
government of the people (it is) and the president of the student 
body is a people (he is) and hence he's been a good president (he 
hasn't been, particularly). Moreover, just vote for me and I'll be a 
people too. It sounds ludicrous but it worked last year; check O.K.'s, 
(or d.k.'s, as he perfers to be known) opening statement and check 
his massive majority; he's kept his promise; he's been a people. 
Boy, has it ever been quiet this year. The food's been bad and the 
laundry loses your socks and three good professors have had to leave 
our school, but nobody's up for saying much. Want to go to Student 
Government? Hell, no, what can they do. Kick up a fuss? Not a 
chance. They're grooving on Cambodia and great issues. Community 
development. They're hot after Community development. They're 
going to make SB a veritable paradise, just like ND. 
Improve the Social Atmosphere! That's The Ticket! If somebody 
could improve the Social Atmosphere here, would we ever be all'set! 
What we ought to have is more concerts with the Supremes! Or more 
free coffee, that'll do it. The U will understand soon; we've got to go 
co-ed; Park-Mayhew's just a first step towards co-education, just like 
the SLC (you remember that, it's the thing with eight student cops 
and eight faculty reps and eight administration people) was the first 
step towards student control of their own lives.) Besides, I'm too 
tired to go to the General Assembly of Students meeting; wait until 
a real person runs for SBP; I'll vote for him, and he'll surely finish 
Whatshisname's unfinished business. 
Swam over to Stepan l<!st night to catch Mardi Gras. SG's triumph of the year. Everybody was either stoned or smashed; whose who weren't soon had their brains reduced to soup b.y the loud band. Swapped pleasantries with dave the Rave, but had to leave early to 
knock out this collumn for the Rag. 
Meant to ask dave about Park-Mayhew last night, but forgot. Whole lot of heavy social issues on my mind, y'undcrstand. Besides, all we have to do is whoop up another Real Person and he'll take care of it after Patriot's day. Read in somebody's column (see underneath editorial) that some cold and calculating guy is hot after the Presidency. Bad stuff indeed! As soon as I calculate out a method, I'm gonna blast him good. 
Somebody famous (could of been Dan Koppenhafer, he's said some profundity.) once said that the only people who wen~ ever sattstled were insane, in love, or drunk. We all love the way things are, right here, right now, and we know who in SG to thank. If we don't love it, here and now, well, beer is cheap, and insanity is cheaper. What the hell. 
Page 5

Friday, February 5, 1971 THE O.BSBIWEit 
Mary A1tn Klemm 
Brother Faul's captive 
In the dirt arena of the old fieldhouse a twelve feet high, twenty-one ton, rock has stood. For four and one-half months, a weightlifter turned sculptor has been chiseling a captive man free. The artist and his finished work left yesterday for the mrnmg town of Wilkes-IJarre, Pennsylvania. 
Ever since he entered the brotherhood at the age of seventeen, Brother Joseph Faul, C.S.C. had been doing maintenance work, sculpting in his free time. After twenty-three years as a working brother he received, in February of 1969, a chance to leave Stonehill College in Massachusetts to concentrate full time on materializing his life-dream of becoming a sculptor. En route to Notre Dame, Brother Faul stopped at King's College in Wilkes-Barre, and, by chance, took on an assignnment which mitiated this work that is to occupy tht: lobby of the new physical education bullding at the college. 
What had originally been agreed upon was a bronze figure depicting, in all its idealism, the classical athlete embodying agility and power. However, the steep 
,. 
cost of thousands of collars for the bronze reproduction led to the decision to use an Indiana limesteone block, which cost one thousand dollars. With the, stone, Brother Faul knew his design. "had lobe much more held together," than with the bronze. He gave up the particular sports symbol for a more universal tl1eme. 
Three sides of this statue show only roughness and divisions in the rock, while the front face alone has been trimmed into the figure of a man. 
Brother Faul noted, "I want to quit before it's finished." The powerful figure of a man is breaking forth, straining to emerge upright, to straighten into fresh erectness. Although the work is completed, the fact that the sculptor has not yet freed him creates a feeling of uneasiness. Something needs to be resolved. This is the exact feeling the artist hoped to evoke: 'That's the idea. He's growing. He's developing." Brother Faul sees the act of coming out of the rock as each man's process of a life struggle to overcome all "intimidations and false fronts," to avert enslaven:ent by 


man leaves field house 
the artificial expectancies of others, to render a confident individuality. The brother called it "a shaking off." 
The artist credited some inspiration to Michelangelo's unfinished figures of captive slaves that were created for Pope Julius' tomb. That the figure is still well 
· inside the rock evokes a sense of "giving life with the stone." This idea may oppose the response in many who see more obviously the oppression of the man by the rock, rather than the power of the force within him to break loose. Most definitely Brother Faul hoped to 


Photo by Bob Howely 
Senior Fellow voting on Monday 
Author and Philosopher Joseph Pieper, among those eligable for Senior Fellow­ship this year, has been described by no less than T.S.Eliot as a "Catholic philoso­pher" whose "writings do not constitute a Christian apologetic ... The German born Pieper, who has been a member of the faculty at the University of Munster since 1946, is considered by many to ·be hte leading living expert of Thomas Aquimas. 
Pieper is the author of a number of books, among them: The Silence ofTho­mas Aquinas, A Guide to Thomas Aqui­nas, Scholasticism, and Fortitude and Temperance. 
But perhaps Pieper's most important work has been Leisure: the Basis of Culture, which has won him widespread critical acclaim. Both his clarity and style have been praised, Eliot writes in his introduction to Leisure that, "Dr. Pieper also has style: however difficult his thought might be. .his ideas (are) ex­pressed with the maximum clarity." 
Eliot further commented in his intro­duction to Leisure that Piper had come near establishing ''·a right relationship between Philosophy and theology," a relationship which would "leave the phi­losopher quite auton,Jmous." 
Pieper; sixty-six, has lectured exten­
sively around the globe during his twen­
ty-four year career as a faculty member at 
Munster. Included among his travels are 
several trips to American Universities adn 
a lecture tour of India in 1962. 
One of the most controversial and well-read scientists of our decade is pshychologist B .F .Skinner. His theories of operant conditioning of behavior have revolutionized the study of man's beha­vior in schools of psychology around the world, including the Department of Psychology at Notre Dame. Operant con­ditioning has influenced the administra­tion and treatment of mental patients and has affected the theories of classroom learning considerably. 
Dr. Skinner received a Ph.D. in psycho­logy from Harvard University and did five years of basic research under a National Research Council Fellowship. He has served as a Junior Fellow in the Harvard Society of Fellows, has tau_ght at the 
Universities of Minnesota and Indiana, 
and since 1948 .;,s been the Edgar Pierce 
Professor of Psy~.wlogy at Harvard Uni­
versity. 
The Senior Fellow Candidate has written prolifically. His works include T!ze Behavior of Organisms (1938), Science and Human Behavior ( 1953), and The Technology of Teaching (1968). Dr. Skinner's most famous work is his uto­pian novel, Walden II, written in 1948, which describes a self-sufficient commun­ity guided by "social engineers" that rein­force desired behavior while eliminating anti-social tendencies among the com­munity members. 

James F. Ahern combines the quality of police administrator and articulate political reformer as few men in his profession_ have done. The former police chief of New Haven, Conneticut was the administrator benmd the violence-free Black Panther demonstrations in New Have~ last spring, and his two and one-half years as police chief earned him the respect of that community as a protector of the law and a defender of the right to dissent. 
Ahern served on President Nixon's Commission on Campus Unrest. The thirty-eight year old policeman received a degree in Police Administration ( 1963) and Business ( 1965) from New Haven College. 
emphasize the force of the spirit, the potential to resurrect within each man. The very thing that man has to fight is that which strengthens him. He receives his life from the stone and can then leave it. For one's spirit to become dampened rather than revitalized in beholding this work would sour the hopes of the artist. The sharpest wish within the sculptor is to excite an optimism. 
Man "really has an awful job ahead, but he's master of the situation, and he knows he's going to get out." 
by Christopher Ceraso 
The sixth and seventh of February, the 
Cultural Arts Commission's Cinema '71 
will present "Shame" by lngmar Berg­
man. The presentation will mark the third 
Bergman film shown on campus thus far 
this year. The others, "The Seventh Seal" 
and "Through a Glass Darkly," were 
presented last semester. These films 
shared a basic theme of Bergman -­
Man's search for a god of some sort in 
order to give reason to existence. 
"Shame" is one of Bergman's more recent 
films ( 1968), and deals, on the surface, 
with a subject that is artistically fresh to 
Bergman. "Shame" is Bergman on war. 
Previously, I have stated that Berg­
man's theme is new to him when taken 
on the surface. However, in "Shame," 
like in all of Bergman's other films, he 
deals with the human condition. He 
presents human beings --people relating 
to each other, to their environment, and 
to themselves. In "Shame," Bergman pre­
sents the life of two musical artists (man 
relating to himself) as they are sur­
rounded by a violent political conflict. 
The main characters are experiencing 
internal conflicts of a personal nature 
(Man relating to each other). The warfare 
encompassing the area outside their walls 
is of no consequence to them until ti 
breaks through those walls. They are then 
forced to react to more than their artistic 
interests and personal lives (Man relating 
to his environment). 
In the very basic breakdown of themes 
above, it is clear that Bergman is merely 
using a different vehicle to convey a 
theme. Thus, "Shame" does not lose any 
of the basic qualities of a Bergman film. 
His technique remains. His stark imagery, 
extensive symbolism, and narrative man­
ner speak directly and profoundly. He has 
no use for dazzling optics and an ex­
tremely complex structure to produce his 
intention. For this reason, he is undoubt­
edly a master of his art. 

Page 6 
Friday, February 5,1971 



DownRour marks Mardi Gras as faithful flo.ck to Stepan Center 
replica of the Apolio space cap-the Mardi Gras festivities come 


fronted with a splash of brightly by Art Ferranti colored booths uf differ,ent shapes made by the various halls The Notre Dame Mardi Gras and organizations of the campus. of 1971 opened last night in The planned ribbon cutting Stepan Center to a large crowd ceremony was cancelled by Mar-despite unfavorable weather. Af­di Gras Committee Chairman ter braving the five inch moat of Greg Stepic. Larry Burns, Mardi water surrounding the center Gras Committee Promotion 
students and patrons were con-Manager, earlier in the evening said that the crowd was not as large as they had anticipated due to the weather. Later, however, Now -Open 12:45 
attendance began to swell and -Feature Times ­
the crowd remained until the night's activities closed. 
l: 50-3:50-5:50-7:50-9:50 
In the center of the floor of
Saturday only at l-3-5-7-9-l 
the Center is a stage on which a
PWIOUNT l'tTIIIlS Plllst115 
local rock group, The Albatross,
AllMac&raw ·lyanO'lal 
performed last night. On the periphery of the circular stage were a series of proJectors which flashed both black and white and color slides on four penta­gonal screens suspended from the ceiling of Stepan. These

Mnlarley&layMill• 
white screens and a thin wire skeleton formed a geodesic

~~~--··-~~~~==~~··· 
dome which added to the atmos­
phere of the exposition. The 
m 

slides were representative of the 
.·1676 

theme of the Mardi Gras ­
universal _peace.

"YOU MUST SEE THIS FILMI" 
-Richard Schickel, Life 
Circumscribing this dome are COLUMBIA PICTURES Presents a 885 Product•on 
two rows of booths. The Alumni Booth received first prize in the

JACK NICHOLSON 
contest for the best stand. Olther noeworthy stalls are those of the


TIVI! 

Air Force ROTC which forms a

1!/IBJ/ 
Cultural Arts Commission's
1~11!1:1!8 fD1 
COLOR~ 

TONIG.tfT lii~N..,..••"You Only Live Twice" 7: "Thunderball" 9: 

Cinema '71 presents
Open at 6:30 pm 

turday and Sunday
Saturday and Sunday 

IY Live" 3:15-7:30 Open at 12:45 pm nderball" 1-5:15-9:30 
S~iAME 
SEAN.:=.!




CONNERY ..,ccfRrRv 
directed by lngmar Bergman Feb. 6 & 7 2:00 & 8:00
isJAMES isJAMES 
Washington Hall 
Admission $ t.00, Cinema '71 patrons free
BOND BOND 
Proof Open ofAge D:zi!y 12:45
Required 

Held Over ONE MORE WEEK 
• • .• I LOVE IT" 
-Roger Ebert, Chicago Sun-Time$ 
Open 6:00
''A MASTERPIECE'' 
-Mary Knoblauch, Chicago TOday 

"FASCINATING AND IMPORTANT" 
-David Elliott, Chica!jo Daily News 

"INGENIOUS AND ENTERTAINING"· 
-Gene Siskel, Chicago Tribune 4,6,8,10
...... 
to a conclusion.

sule and Antares, the paddle
f Admission is twen. ty-five cents
wheel boat o the KentuckyClub, and the Glee Club's l900's or the presentation of an Expo Barber Shop "Clip Joint." '71 button to the girls at the Real money is exchanged for entrance doors. The button costs play money at a booth made to one dollar or the sale of one resemble an old Western bank. Mardi Gras book of tickets. The games that are offered at Burns said that more money is the various stands include poker, expected from ticket sales and craps, over and under, roulette, -that large returr.s from the expo-
k. k WSND b d
and blac JaC . roa cast-sition itself will help them a-ed from the Stepan floor and chit:vc their goal of aiding the will continue to do so in its own worthwhile charities the Mardi booth until Tuesday night when Gras sponsors. 



Crosson announces cutbacks 
In 

Arts and letters College 
Cuts in the faculties of a num­ber of the departments of the College of Arts and Letters were announced yestcday by Dean Frederick Crosson of the College of Arts and Letters. He cited the loss of two professors in the English Department, two in Phi­losophy and one in History as examples of the cuts. Dean Cros­son announced these cutbacks amid speculation that as many as seven professors were .being· dropped from the English De­partment. Crosson said however, that two English professors were leaving and these because of 
rctirelllCilL He :.1d111itted that the department will not seek re­placements for the two depart­ing professors. 
Crosson said he doubted that the general cutback in Arts and Letters would result in any over­
crowded classes, citing a statistic that 80% of the courses in Arts and Letters were not filled this past semester. He did point out however, that this fact was not generally known by the stu­
dents,  because  of  the  big  de­ 
mand  for  the  more  popular  
courses of the College.  

Crosson also stated that the theology department will ex­pand next year. He attributed this in part to the Pastoral The­ology program developed by a grant of the Lewis Foundation.. Crosson also said he doubted whether the appointment of Rev. James Burtchaell, former head of the theology depart­ment,as University Provost was a factbr in the emphasis placed upon theology. 
Crosson credited Father Hes­burgh with the decision several years ago to build up what Crosson called the "then weak"' theology department. Fr. Hes­burgh's aim, according to Cros­son, has been to raise the stan­dard of the theology department "not only to equality with the other department, but to a na­tionally recognized depart­ment." 
According to Crosson the present enrollment in the Col­lege of Arts and Letters is 2285, not counting Freshmen intents. Crosson does not anticipate any ~ignificant change in the enroll­ment. 
Cresson also denied that there were to be any cuts in the faculty salaries next year. 

Need volunteers 
Mrs. Paul Conway, of the So­cial Action Committee of the Ladies of Notre Dame, is still seeking volunteer help to con­vert an ol.d firehouse into a work release center for 15 inmates from the Michigan City Prison. The 15 will be serving the last 6 months of their sentence at the center if the needed renovation is completed by March I. Other­wise, the center will have to wait for a new group to be selected . 
Work on the renovation will begin Monday. The work in­volves painting, a little carpentry and "fixing up," according to Mrs. Conway. There will be su­pervision present at all times. 
Volunteers for the project may contact Mrs. Conway (232-5755) or Mrs. John B.everly (272-3117). 
Friday, February 5, 1971 









The season becomes an education 

Creighton is tough 
urday.
Notre Dame captured the col­Notre Dame's freshman team,legiate spotlight with its 89--82 who defeated previously un­victory over UCLA and then beaten Marquette, have a 6-3 added an impressive I04-80 win ledger while the Creighton frosh over Michigan State before the 

are 10-0. 
Illini setback. Against Illinois, Notre Dame's basketballthe Irish shot ju:;t 3 5 per cent team, hopeful of establishing aand All-American Austin Carr 

consistent winning pattern
had a rare off night with 11 of through the final month of the34 from the floor and 23 points. 

season, entertains potent Creigh­Carr entered a select group ton (13-6) Saturday afternoonwhen he reached the 2,000 point in its seventh annual Home­career mark against Illinois. Carr, coming game. 
already the highest career scorer The regionally televised gamein Notre Dame history (2,011 ), (TVS) will start at I :40 P.M. inis second nationally in scoring the Athletic and Convocationwith a 36.8 average. 

Center with the school's twoIrish coach Johnny Dee will freshmen teams meeting in theprobably stay with the present prelim at I I :45 A.M.
lineup that also includes Collis Notre Dame will honor fourJones (23.1), Sid C<\tlett (8.1) 

of its outstanding basketballand John Pleick (5.9) in the alumni at halftime. The fourfrontcourt and guard Jackie former Irish cager-s, now priests,Meehan (3.4). Jones now is tied are Ed Malloy (1961-63), Johnwith Devine on the All-Time 
Smyth (1954-57), John McCar­
career scoring list with 1,043 thy (1955-58) and Bob Devine(14th). 

(1955-58). Smyth, at the
Creighton's Bluejays have lost present time, ranks seventh onthree of five games against Dee's the all-time Irish scoring list withIrish quintets. The Bluejays, in I ,236 career points while McCar­their last meeting with NO, cap:.' 

thy and Devine added I, I 08 andtured a 79-74 win here two 1 ,043 respectively. 
years ago. Eddie Sutton's club Previous recipients of theentered a Wedn1!sday date at Homecoming award have beenhome against Southern Illinois such former Irish greats as Raywith a 12-6 record. 

Meyer and George Ireland, theThe Bluejays, who dropped cage coaches at DePaul andclose decisions to Jacksonville 
Loyola respectively, Clem
(94-85), SMU (97 -95) and Du­Crowe, Byron Kanaley, Notre quesne (72-69) last Saturday, Dame Athletic Director, Edwardhave a well balanced scoring Krause and former Irish coachattack anchored by 6-9 junior Johnny Jordan.

center Cyril Baptiste (20.0 ppg., The Irish, ranked seventh na­
1 I .6 rebs.). Guards Mike Caruso and John Taylor are averaging 

tionally before last Saturday's 69-66 overtime loss to Illinois forwards Pat Bresnahan ( 6-5) before 17,119 at the Chicago and Phil Bazelides ( 6-5) are scor­Stadium, will enter the Creigh­ing 9.6 and 5.2. ton encounter with an overall Creighton will be playing for 10-5 record. During January, the first time this season without however, the Irish have played 6-9 forward Joe Bergman ( 13 .9), just .500 (3-3) following four whose eligibility ended last Sat-straight victories in December. 
14.0 and 11.7 respectively while 

has scored less than 30 points. open a couple of games before 
Of course, a very bad chest and •the season ends. head cold didn't help Austin against the Illini; h~ felt so bad Board men are keys this week that he couldn't prac­
A big factor in the team'stice on Wednesday. The team success that has been overlookedresponds to Carr -when Austin is the steady improvement of Sidis hot, the Irish are hot. The Catlett. The big guy has reallyconverse is also valid. 
been doing a job on the boards and has started to relieve much
Players back strategy 
of the pressure on Collis Jones 
Questions of strategy always by scoring more often. Jones, emerge following defeats result­certainly the most consistent ing in nothing more than conjec­performer on the squad, has ture. Little is said about strategy developed into a very rugged following victories. Asked if he defensive player. Although he though he should have played couldn't buy a basket or a free last Saturday, Doug Gemmell throw against Illinois, John 

said, "Sure, I would have liked Pleick muscled the Illini's huge Irish coach Johnny Dee to play, but he (Dee) wanted to Greg Jackson to a standstill. leave the big men in there; I Jackie Meehan continues to nights when Austin c;;s;:-has ­
waved his magic wand, the Irishcan't blame him. I would have smoothly engineer the Irish, and have been dynamite, capable ofprobably done the same thing. the little playmaker from Philly 
Big John just had a bad shooting must be looking forward to NO's destroying any opponent. Surely game, but on any other night he date in the Palestra. Johnny Dee has built a basket­might have torn the gym up." ball program that has now af­Tom Sinnott replied, "I think he forded this school with powerful 
Still some magic left
really coached a good game... teams in the two most popular Marquette is 17-0, but compare In most respects it has been a collegiate sports. If you like our schedules; we play the best wonderful 2lh years for Coach won-lost records go to Penn or and when March gets here it's John F. Dee, Jr. Sure, on some Fordham or Jacksonville. Go going to pay off." Both Sinnott nights the Irish have looked as if watch such toughies as Rutgers, and Gemmell are excellent they wished they were some­the Virgin Islands, and South shooters who provide the Irish where else, and they have, at Alabama. This reporter prefers with an instant offensive threat. times, seemed about as emo­to stick it out here. Austin Carr They are diamonds-in-the-rough tional as a group of farmers and his friends still have a lot of and are quite likely to break touring the Louvre. But on other magic left. 


leers face critical series 
Notre Dame, Indiana--Notre Smith was pleased with the shoulder. Dame's hockey team faces what play of Tomasoni and freshman Four Irish skaters-Regan, coach Lefty Smith terms "a cru­Mark Kronhom against Michigan John Noble, Ian Williams and 
cial series" this weekend when State along with winger Kevin Phil Wittliff-all have nine goals. powerful Denver University in­Hoe.ne and defeseman Bill Noble leads the team in scoring vades for a two-game set in the Green. with 25 points while Regan has 
Athletic and Convocation Cen­Smith is uncertain about his collected 24 and Williams 22. 
ter. starting lines for Denver since Notre Dame will not -return 
The games will start at 7:45 No_ I center Paul Regan suffered home again until February 27 
P.M. both Friday and Saturday a shoulder injury against the against Bowling Green, playing with general admission tickets Spartans. Oefenseman Steve five straight games on the road still on sale. Curry also reinjured his after the Denver inva~ion. 
"If we have hopes of finishing with a winning record, we will need a good effort this week­
Convo is busyend," said Smith, whose 
youthful team is now 8-10-1 coach Alex Wilson indicated that 
overall and 4-9-I against Western Two of Notre Dame's out­he will run his ace in the mile 
Collegiate Hockey Association standing athletes, wrestler Phil and 880 this week. "I was 
Teams. Gustafson and middle distance pleased with the balance we 
The Irish dropped a rough ace Rick Wohlhuter, will be on showed," said Wilson, who ex­
series at Michigan State last display in the Athletic and Con­pects a tight meet with Ohio 
weekend, 6-3 and 6-4 and Smith vocation Center this Saturday to State, a 77-57 winner over the 
is uncertain if several frontline highlight a busy home weekend. Irish last year. 
players who suffered m]uries The Irish wrestling and indoor Notre Dame's fencing team 
against the Spartans will be track teams, in addition to bas­will meet the University of Illi­
ready for Denver. ketball and hockey, have home nois-Chicago Circle and Wiscon­
Notre Dame dropped two events scheduled. Only the sin Parkside in Chicago Satur­
games at Denver three weeks fencers, with an outstanding day, February 6. 
ago, 6-3 and 4-2, but Smith 8-2 record, will be on the road. 
termed the second game "one of The Irish wrestlers, 5-3 -I 
Austin Carr falls
the best efforts of the season." overall following a 26-13 vic­
Denver, entering a Monday-Tues­tory over National Catholic NEW YORK (UPI) -Austin 
day series at home against St. 
champion John Carroll last Sat­Carr of Notre O'ame lost a little Louis, was 12-6-1 overall. urday, entertains Missouri Valley ground last week in his duel with 
The Pioneers are among the Conference member Drake, Mil­Johnny Neumann of Mississippi top four teams in the WCHA lersville, Pa. and Cincinnati in for the national college scoringwith as 8-6 ledger following 5-3 the ACC at 10 A.M., Saturday. 
title. 

and 5-4 wins over Colorado Col­Gustafson, Notre Dame's pre­Neumann scored 63 points
lege. mier heavyweight, is a perfect against Louisiana State last Sat­
Denver, who has captured five 8-0 this year and in all eight urday and raised his average per
NCAA titiles under veteran victories he has recorded a pin. game from 42.1 last week to 
coach Murray Armstrong, is In addition, Gustafson is now 42.9 this week. Carr with a 23 
working on its longest un­unbeaten in 27 straight matches, point output last week dropped
beatned string since 1968-69 a Notre Dame record. from 37.9 to 36.8 points per 
with eight victories and one tie Notre Dame's trackmen, an game. 
since suffering a 6-3 loss to 83-48 winner over Miami in Willie Humes of Idaho State, a 
North Dakota Jan. 1. The Pio­their opening dual meet, host former high school star at Madi-~ 
neers are anchored by centers Ed Ohio State Saturday starting at son, Ind., remained in third 
Hays and Vic Venasky and wings Noon. The Bucks received a place with 31.7 points per game, 
Tom Peluco and Mike Lamp­101 -40 jolt from Florida in same as last week. 
man. their dual opener, but they have George McGinnis of Indiana 
But Armstrong is also aware two excellent sprinters in Jim remained fifth with 30.2 points 
of Notre Dame's potential. "We Harris and Jerry Hill and the Big per game. Neither Idaho State 
had to play as well as we could Ten indoor pole vault king, Ken nor Indiana played last week. 
to beat them twice at home," Koch (15-!0Yz). John Mengelt of Auburn, for­
said Armstrong, adding, "and Wohlhuter, the NCAA indoor merely of Elwood, Ind., who 
their goalie, Dick Tomasoni, is as 600 yard champion, turned in a was seventh last week with a 
good or better than any I have good 4:09.5 clocking for the 29.3 point average, dropped out 
seen this season." mile against Miami and Irio'". of the top I 0 this week. 
by J.W. Findling Observer Sportswriter 
In certain respects it has been a rotten 2lh seasons for Coach John F. Dee, Jr. First, unsympa­thetic students whose manners often rival those of the Cro­Magnon era have demanded much more than any of Dee's teams have provided. Secondly, his optimism in September of 1967 concerning his magnificent seven young fresh::nen convinced the students that Notre Dame basket ball would mirror the con­sistent power of its football. He now had the personnel to play with anyone, and he let people know about it. But as the saying goes -South Bend wasn't built in a day. After two "miserable" seasons in which Notre Dame had only a 41-15 record against the toughest competition that Dee could get, Coach Dee and his team have once again in­curred the wrath of those stu­dents whose only criticism of 
this university is that its basket­ball team is capricious. At most schools 41-15 would be terrific, but at Notre Dam1!, where defeat is accepted about as well as the food, some students are ap­palled. Notre Dame has played the most challenging 15 games in college basket ball. They have won 10, but as one student wrote in to complain in Tues­day's Observer, "Dee could have meant victory for the Irish in all their games with the possible exception of Marquette." Maybe Patton could have meant victory in Vietnam. The Irish have beaten teams coached by Johnny Wooden and Adolph Rupp in a period of one month. Now, quick all you proselytes of basketball, list all the coaches and teams who have ever done that. Can't think of any? Don't try. Any coach that has done that, however, deserves at least the courtesy of finishing the season. 

Schedule common denominator 
The common denominator has been the Irish schedule. Coach Dee said Wednesday in his office, "When this season started I knew I had to educate several people about it. . .first, I had to get the players ready to face a schedule in which they wouldn't be 15-0 at this point; secondly, 
I had to convince the NCAA tournament selection committee that Notre Dame played the most challenging schedule in the country; finally, I had to con­vince the students and fans." He has apparently succeeded on all counts but the last. Dee is used to criticism, but he is upset at some of the unfair remarks di­rected at the team. He should be. This team has never stopped hustling -Dee calls them "per­ennial sophomores" -and they don't know what "quit" means. 
If reasons must be given for defeats, how about starting with this observation: every · game which the Irish have lost except Indiana (one which ND was "whistled" out of) Austin Carr 
Page 8 THE OBSERV!:R Friday, February 5, 1971 

Antares approaches moon landing site 
SPACE CENTER, Houston land on the moon grew closer, 
(UPI) -Alan B. Shepard and target lies in a valley between Edgar D. Mitchell cut their lunar the rocky ridges in the moon's lander Antares loose from the mountain foothills. It was Apollo 14 command ship and difficult for the astronauts to headed toward a landing in the hit. moon's cratered foothills Friday They began slowly moving morning. away from Stuart A. Roosa in 
Unlike the landings of Apollo the command ship Kitty Hawk II and 12, which were made on at 11:51 p.m. EST for their the fla 14's touchdown a four hours later on the moon's scientifically beguiling Fra Mauro formation. 
ShepardAmcrica's first man in space whose trip to the moon was delayed a decade because of a middle ear disorder, and his rookie companion, Mitchell, plan to spend 33V2 hours on the moon. 
WHAT'S BEAUTIFUL?' TWA'S GETAWAY CARID 
Absolutely FREE 
No Minimum Income Necessary No Annual Dues or Fees 
CHARGE AIRFARE I HOTELS I MOTELS MEALS I CARS I TOURS CHECK CASHING PRIVILEGE 

ALL STUDENTS ELIGIBLE APPLICATIONS CAMPUS WIDE 

Escape to Acapulco for a full week of super sun and top notch night life. Visit the tequila factory and other famous Acapulco nightclubs. *Es;cape International will take you to Acapulco any Saturday from February ~!7 to April10. 
Your package inc;ludes: e Round trip air transportation to Acapulco, Mexico. e Transfers between Acapulco International Airport and the Del 
Monte Hotel. e Seven days and nights accom·modations at the Del Monte Hotell overlooking Acapulco. 
e A fiesta from arrival to departure -a welcome party, water skiing,, 3-hour cruise of the bay with native music and an open authentic: Mexican bar. 
e Tips and taxes on services are also provided. 
Membership in Escape International Air Travel Club required ... six months dues just $12.50. 

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION 
CALL TOLL FREE COlLECT (31.4) 731. 1.933 
ESCAPE INTERNATIONAL/ THE TRIP CLUB 
They will collect rocks, the high spirits came through 
believed to be up to 5 billion clearly on conversations with 
years old, from the rim of cone ground controllers -sometimes 
crater, set up an atomic powered when they were simply reading 
scientific station and make two down engineering figures. 
moonwalks of up to five hours As for the battery aboard the 
each. Antares that placed a cloud over 
They will blast off the moon a landing for a time, Mitchell 
Saturday afternoon and rejoin and Shepard said it looked 
Roosa for the return trip back to exactly as it did Wednesday 
earth. night -just three-tenths of a 
Ground controllrs allowed volt low. 
Shepard and Mitchell to cut Before the Antares checkout 
loose from Roosa's command began, controllers warned the 
ship after they checked out one astronauts that if it had dropped 
last nagging question about one to more than 1.8 volts low, they 
of Antares' 37 volt batteries. might not get a go ahead to try 
Roosa, who will have to and land. 
remain in orbit when Shepard Shepard, America's 47 year 
and Mitchell explore the moon, old space pioneer who waited I0 
nonetheless got a good view of years fora ·moon flight, was duly 
th.e moon as Apollo 14 skimmed impressed when Apollo 14 
low over its jagged craters. swooped down to a height of 
"It's really something," he less than IOV2 miles above earth. 
said. "It's ju~t like you could "Wow, it's really wild up 
reach out and touch it." here," Shepard said. "It has all 
Ground controllers told the grays, browns, white and 
Roosa that his family was dark craters that everybody's 
outside their home near Houston talked about." 
looking up at a pale silver "Fra Despite the excitement of the 
Mauro moon." approaching landing, the three 
That was Shepard o.nd astronauts reported that when 
Mitchell's target on the moon _ they awoke about 6: IS p.m. 
the Fra Mauro uplands where EST that they each slept oundly 
Apollo 13 was headed when it for six hours in lunar orbit and 
ran into trouble. Seen from the felt good. 
earth, their landing area was 


NSA prepares

right along the line between dark 
and light, and slightly below the 

impromptu rally

lunar equator. Their excitement began to 
A planned spontaneous stag­

mount when they first arrived in 
ing of a guerrilla theater demon­

a record low lunar orbit and 
stration in connection with the

Mitchell reported: "We're here." 
recent U.S. troop movement a­

As the time for the attempt to 
long the Laotian border was discussed last night at an openAlumni discuss meeting of the National Stu­dents Association in the La­Fortune Ballroom. The theater


future policy 
demonstration is planned for one of the remaining Mardi Gras 

(Cnntinued from Page 1) 
nights.

Parks-Mayhew Report will be 
About 25 members attended 

condensed in the next issue of 
the meeting, billed as a "discus­

the hi-monthly Alumnus maga­
sion of the recent events con­

zine, with the entire version 
cerning Laos." According to the 

being sent to the alumni's 
plan drawn up at the meeting,

regional Senators. Then, the 
the actors in the parody would 

4 7 000 alumni will be polled on 
infiltrate the festival posing as 

th~ view of co-education with 
patrons and later regroup to 

the results to be presented by 
stage their play. Other members 

Erkins to the Board of Trustees 
of the group plan to distribute in early March. pamphlets while a mock trial is 
Both Erkins and McGoldrick 
conducted. Steve Novak, one of 

emphasized the alumni's vital 
the members at the meeting said 

concern with the University. 
that the staging is aimed at 

There were alumni, Erkins 
moving other students toward 

reminded, at the Student Strike 
thinking about recent events of 0 f last year. Alumni have the war. identified with the Cotton Bowl 
The National Student Associ­trip of two years ago, secur~ty ation also announced plans to improvements and mm_onty solicit signatures for a nine-point recruitment. Last night, Peoples Peace Treaty from citi­1\icGoldrick added, some of the zens of South Bend and stu­B0ard members sat down with 6 dents. The treaty, which was students and discussed the drawn up last summer by several present situation for 41/2 hours. student body presidents from In an attempt to add a "new throughout the country, de­dimension" to the Board, said mands that the U.S. publicly set Erkins, a change in election a date for the withdrawal of procedures will be discussed to troops from South Vietnam and allow younger alumni to gain enter discussions aimed at the office. release of U.S. prisoners of war. 
TO POSTER SIZE 
Send any black and white or 
2FT 3FT $3 50 
~~:~~.~h~~··m~~~aJ~~d :;~~~: X • 
~in~~Gi~~~:,e~.;.·'" ~:~!~~: 1% n. x 2· n. $2.so 

3 FT. x4 FT. S7.5o 
Add SOc for postilge handline for 
cash or M.D. (No C.O.D.) To, 
PO BOX 589 NY 10010 NY 







