
Vol. V, No. 100 Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Communi~v Tuesd::ty, March 30, 1971 
Calley guilty· in My Lai killings 
FT. BENNING, Ga. UPI -Lt. which deliberated 13 days, last two accused him the two 
William L. Calley Jr. was found lowered the murder count to individual slayings--the child,guilty Monday of premeditated assault. and a man dressed as a monk. murder of at least 22 Vietnamese Calley's attorney, George W. Calley was standing at at­civilians at My Lai --the first U.S. Latimer, said he intended to tention as the verdict was read,soldier convicted in the March 16, appeal the case "as high as and he nervously licked his lips.1968 massacre. possible--90 grounds or so." Latimer was misty eyed when 
Calley, his face flushed pink, The whole process of delivering he left the courtroom with Calley snapped a weak salute when he the verdict was accomplished to retire to the defense chambers. 
heard the verdict. The jury will between 4:29p.m., when the jury He remained closed with Calley now decide whether to sentence entered the room, and 4:33p.m., for 10 minutes before cominghim to death or life im­ending the long trial that began outside. prisonment. for Calley Sept. 5, 1969 when he Wehn asked how he felt, he ' 
The 27 year old defendant, who was charged with 109 murders. replied,''How would anybody feel stood trial for 102 murders, also That number was reduced in a after a verdict like that. It was a was convicted of assault with pretrial hearing a year ago to 102, horrendous decision for the intent to murder a two year old and the jury cut it down to 22. United Ststes of America, the child. A witness testified Calley Verdict Given U.S. Army and for my client." shot at the child, but did not see "Lt. Calley, it is my duty as Calley's Feelings Related the bullets hit -thus the jury, president of this court to advise Asked to relate Calley's
that the court in closed session feelings, Latimer replied, "I and upon secret written ballot, hardly think I need to explain two thirds of the members that." Then he added: "Take my 
SMC Student Affairs Committee 
present, at the time the vote was word for it, the boy was taken concurring in each finding crushed." of guilty," Col. Clifford H. Ford, And, Latimer added, "He's still 

may re-open Coffee Hou~e 
the court president, told Calley. got an ordeal." The charges against the young Calley was led away at 5:03by Bill Weber in addition to hosting -the "for­and sex information, black officer were contained in four p.m. by five military police men.
mal" activities held there such as studies, women's lib, foreign specifications. The first accused He walked with them out the

folk or rock concerts and gab­study programs, and so forth. killing 30 Viet­
him of South main door of the courtroomThe Student Affairs Commit-. fests, a place for students to Food vending machines could namese civilians at the junction building and got into the rear seattee of St. Mary's convened meet, mingle, talk, study, and also be installed. 
of two trials in My Lai ; the of a green military sedan. ThereMonday night and elected a new relax. Although it was roundly agreed second charged that he rounded were two MPs in the front seatchairman and discussed a The more unique feature of the that it would not be right to up 70 persons in an irrigation 
and two ic~~ti~ued on page 3'de
proposal for the re-opening of the center is that it could be open all charge clubs, organizations, or ditch and cut them down with of him.
coffeehouse in the basement of night. It was then suggested that classes for the private use of automatic weapons fire, and the
O'Laughlin Auditorium. it be closed in the later morning what would be a student center, Missy Underman was hours when not as many people the suggestion was made that a unanimously elected chairman ·would have need for it. Security small fee might be collected for 


Black studies dispute 
for the 1971-72 political year, arrangements were discussed in the right to place a display on the succeeding Jean Gorman, who the case it remains open all night. "shelf" by some club or passed out of of office with the The center would be handled by organization. This would help to 

continues at ND
end of her term. a management and staff con­shave off some of the costs of A committee to study the sisting of students from both St. operation. 

by Ann Therese Darin
possibilities of reopening the Mary's and Notre Dame. It was announced that if the coffeehouse in O'Laughlin Hall Because the duties of Board of Trustees passes the headed by Laura Bayer con­management would become proposal to allow St. Mary's Black Studies head Dr. Joseph cluded that there is easily enough rather heavy with the center juniors to live off campus, this Scott and University Provost student interest in the idea to remaining open a considerable opportunity could take effect James Burtchaell yesterday begin and continue it as a student portion of everyday, it was also beginning next Fall. claimed differing interpretations center. With a grant of $1,000 suggested that the position of full­Finally, Sister Immaculata of an agreement made at a promised by the Student time student manager be a suggested that it might be a good March 12th meeting concerning 
Assembly, the coffeehouse could salaried one. idea for students to suggest the future of the Black Studies receive the needed refurnishing Bayer suggested that the nominations for the Faculty Program at Notre Dame. which would include new car­center contain a library of topical Senate. These could be turned in Dr. Scott and Fr. Burtchaell peting and furniture and become, materials of interest such as drug to Missy Underman. disagreed on the hiring of ad­
ditional black personnel in areas such as guidance, admissions, financial aid and the organization of a black student affairs com­
Sophmore cars approved by SLC 
mittee: 

Both men agreed that four additional Black faculty mem­by Milt Jones approve or disapprove the bers will be hired during the next 
motion, but we feel all things few years. The Black Studies The Student Life Council voted should be weighed and the director will share authority and 
to allow sophomores cars on privilege should be granted." money to hire these teachers campus beginning next fall at a whose positions have been 
New Members

meeting yesterday in the Center specifically designated in the for Continuing Education. four departments in which they
In other business the SLC

The chairman of the will work.
granted incoming SBP John

Sophomore Car Committee, Dr. Scott said the University
Barkett and his vice-president

Eugene Henry, Professor of will hire additional black per­
Orlando Rodriguez permission toElectrical Engineering sub­sonnel to work in these areas,sit on the council at the meeting, 

mitted that committee's report, including a "full fledged" fresh­
even though it is two days before 

which called for the permission to man year counselor and a
they would officially becomebe granted. 

specialist to work out of Fr.
members of the body.

The report which dealt with an Thomas E. Blantz's vice­
The SLC also voted on a motion

objection by University president for student affairs
concerning drugs in the

President, Father Theodore office to deal with black student
University community. It had

Hesburgh regarding the fees, college life_
been the general understanding

suggested that only student Fr. Burtchaell, however,
at the last meeting that the The motion called for ac­will serve as permanent
drivers pay parking fees, not the qualified Scott's statement by
motion submitted by Chris Ot­ceptance of "the spirit of the guidelines to the Judicial Code," 
total student body. saying there is only a possibility
tenweller had been approved, but statement on the sale and was appointed by the council.
The proposal also answered an that the University will hire black 
it was discovered that they posession of dangerous drugs The SLC also elected Floyd
objection concerning academic specialists in these functional
passed a motion to vote on Ot­recently issued by the Provost of Kezele temporary vice-chairman 
influence with statistics which areas.
tenweller's motion rather than the University." The motion also of the SLC to fill the position
pointed out that although The Provost maintained that
the motion that was on the floor pointed out SLC's insufficiency vacated by outgoing SBVP Mark
sophomores have more overall linkage of the social and
at that time. "to meet the disciplinary Winings. Kezele will act as
academic problems than juniors academic areas of concern for
problems arising from its ap­chairman of the steering com­
or seniors, the difference is not Edward Vasta, of the English black students should be in­
plication." mittee, which formulates the
significant enough to merit at­department, pointed this out and formal, not formal as Dr. Scott
A committee to investigate the agendas for SLC meetings. He
tention. the S_LC corrected the error, after stated.
drug problem and draw up will hold office until the regularHenry said · "We feel that no 45 mmutes of debate, by officially "policies and procedures that election of officers in May. Continued on page 8one factor shot..J be-used to voting on the Ottenweller motion. 




~~----------------------------------------------­
~~~--~-~-~ ~ ~.

't 't HPC plans ~A.n. 

t .t t 
fYACH'TING t 
-' 


fsUMI\i1ER ~POSITIONS i 
AThe American Yachting Associai hion with listings on the East fcoast, West Coast, Gulf Area,t and the Great Lakes is soliciting&
6
'for summer crew applicants. ' 
A Positions are available fora 
'experience"d as well as inexperi-' 
Aenced male and female colleget 
'students and graduates. Experi­
6

fence in cooking and child care' 
may be particularly helpfuL t

t Crewing affords one the opportunity to earn reasonableA sums while engaged in pleasant'· foutdoor activity. ~ ' To apply type a 1 page' fresume following as closely as I 'possible the form shown below.' tin April your resume will bet edited, printed and sent toA .approximately 1500-2500' (depending on area) large craft t 
owners. A' 
RESUME FORM-(1) name,' address (home and school), A
I
phone number, age;12) relevant ' 

t
t
f(4) 2 or more students wishing f ~ ito work together, state name of f ~ 'other parties; (5) other informa-~ tion. . a ~~a~: Send your resume w1th $6 t' ~ processing fee to: ~ American Yachting Associatio11ra1: 
6
' Suite 503, 8730 Sunset Blvd. ~ & Los Angeles, California 90069 f IIi: 'Your resume must be received ~ 
f"" lotonhon Apdl 1 5, 1971. : ~ 
by Bob Higgins 
Fritz Hoefer, Executive Coordinator of the Hall Presidents Coqncil, announced at last night's HPC meeting a tentative itinerary for the up­coming An Tostal weekend. 
Hoefer, the chairman of An Tostal, told the Presidents that the weekend will be run in a similiar fashion to last year's extremely successful one. As in the past, the weekend will begin with a balloon launch on Thur­sday afternoon April 29; and will continue through an outdoor blues concert sponsored by the Contemporary Arts Festival behind· Stepan Center on Saturday night. Highlighting the weekend will be such popular events as the kissing marathon, the pig chase, and tug of war, and basketball and football games between NOtre Dame celebrities and teams composed of Saint Mary's students. 
Hoefer informed the Council that there will be an unforseen conflict on the Saturday of An Tostal weekend. Originally Hoefer had been told by the Athletic Department that the annual Blue-Gold intrasquad football game would be held on Saturday, April 24. However, the Executive coordinator stated that he had only recently been 


Interested in working on 
The Observer? 
meeting for new staff Th d A I 
urs ay pri 1 7:30 Fiesta lounge third floor LaFortune 
t
work or recreational experience; f""--------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--·-.1
(3) dates available and area(s); ~_.,_.,_.,_.,_.,_.,_.,..,_.,..,_.,..,_.,-""'JF.JJW.JJW4, 
t ·-·-··-·-·---~~_.,..,..,..,,..,..,,...,,,..,,,.,~•...,,~,..,. 
Can You Type WEll  ~  
~  
d  d  .  ~  

Want money an a stea y· 1ob? .: 
~ ~ 
1111: 

C II S IIi: ~ 
a cott Braley or leave a message ~ ' ~ 
7 4 71 8661 



Tostal weekend 

Fritz Hoefer notified of the Athletic Depart­ment's decision to change the date of the game to May I, the Saturday of An Tostal weekend. Hoefer explained that the conflict could not be avoided at this late date, because he had already entered into numerous con­tractual obligations. Hall Life Board Session In other business, Student Body President-elect John Barkett repeated his written an­nouncement to the presidents in which he plans to suggest to the Student Life Council that they reduce their size by one half. He asked the Presidents for suggestions. and received no objections. After the · meeting, a short session of the Hall Life Board was held, to explain its purpose to the Hall Presidents. Bob Galgan, PResident of Dillon Hall, and member of the Hall Life Board, 

·-·--Bob Giilga·n outlined the three point program 
for the board:  
--Approval of  all  Hall  Con­ 
stitutions  
--Assurance  of  effective  Hall  

Governments and Judicial Systems in every Hall. 
--Ov0rseeing the en­vironmental aspects of the hall, with the 'general prupose of improving living conditions, both physical and emotional. 
Galgan, who said he was "unsure of the place of the Hall Life Board in the power structure of the University," views the role of the board optimistically. He hopes to meet with the govern­ments of each hall and discuss the general problems that exist on the hall level. 
The president of Dillon stated that he "does not want the board to be a· board of authority that runs around slapping hands, but rather a board of usefullness and helpfulness." 
WSND buys new equipment; installs five transmitters 
Campus radio station WSND announced today the acquisition and installation of new tran­smission equipment. According 
•Manufacturer's suggested retail base price N.Y. P. 0. E. Other P. 0. E. prices slightly higher. Don not Include transportation charges, dealer preparation, state and local taxes, If any. 

Sports CarClub ofAmerica drivers 

call it a champior1. 
(Typical American understatement) 
lntheSCCA National Championships last Mark IV, we strengthened the engine bear-year, the Mark Ill Spitfire took first, second lngs, designed a new close ratio ali-synchro and third in its class. gearbox and modified tlie suspension for 
Champion indeed! That's what the Eng-Improved. balance and road holding. llsh would calla bit of all right. And while. we were doing things for the 
But we didn't rest on our laurels. We rad-Inside, Ferrari body designer Michelotti did icaliy reworked the 1970 champion to make a lot for the outside. It work even better for 1971. On our new As far as we can tell, the car Is now-
to use an American term-'A-OK' by any­body's standards. You try it at your Triumph ·dealer. The new improved champion for 
1971. For $2,649•. 
~~~

liriumph Spa·tta·re 

AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIA 1,E DELIVERY! 
·II 
ILIEI.IN 
*TRIUMPH *ROVER* l.AND ROVER* 
916 E. McKinley, Mishawaka ph. 255-4751 
Hours 

Open Monday and Thursday nites to 9:00 p.m. Tues., Wed. and Jo'ri. to 6:00 p.m., 
to Chief Engineer -George Molnar, five new transmitters have been purchased by the station, and several of these have 
already been installed  on  cam­ 
pus.  ·  
Molnar  said  that  the  new  
transmitters  "should  con­ 

siderably improve WSND's reception throughout the cam­pus. We have already installed some of the new equipment, and the areas that we have worked on are reporting greatly improved reception". 
Molnar added that ''a special effort is being made by the WSND technical engineers to complete installation by this Wednesday, when we will be carrying two special programs". One of these is an interview with university president Theodore Hesburgh. 
Sunshine and Polka Dots 

"Sunshine and Polka Dots" is the theme of a Spring fashion show to be held Tuesday evening, March 30, at 8:00 in the La Fortune Student Center. The Notre Dame Student Wives Club, sponsors of the show, have contracted The "Village Scene" of Town and Country Shopping Center, Mishawaka to display the latest styles in clothing and ac­cessories. The "Wives" will serve as models for the show 
The public is cordially invited to attend, especially N.D. and 
S.M.C. students who are either looking for a way to catch Spring fever or have an interest in the current trends of the fashion world. 
The Admission donation is fifty cents. Gift certificates from "The Village Scent" will be awarded as door prizes. Tickets will be available at the door. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Tuesda~, March 30, 1971 


Bayh 'looking it 
PORTLAND, Ore. (UPI) ­Sen. Birch Bayh, D.-Ind., said here Saturday that he felt Sen. George McGovern, D.-8.D., was right in announcing his can­didacy for president so early. 
But Bayh, who is considered as one of the likely Democratic presidential candidates, added that he and other potential nominees are still feeling the effects of a divided party. 
Bayh said he doesn't "think a grass roots ground swell for me 
or  for  anyone  else  in  the ·  
Democratic  party  for  the  
presidency."  

However, he said that "if I choose to run, I want to be sure 
Calley verdict 
Continued from page 1 
Another car driven by an MP followed the Calley vehicle. 
Across the street from the courthouse, a crowd of about 100 persons had gathered. 
As Calley's car sped away, one woman yelled out, "We are with you all the way, Calley." 
Calley is confined at the post stockade. He will be held there until the sentencing procedure is concluded, emerging only for the court's sessions. He will be treated as an officer, quartered and fed separately from enlisted men. 
No Witnesses 

Latimer said he would call no witnesses in mitigation of sen­tence when court reconvenes for the sentencing phase of the trial at 1 p.m. Tuesday. 
The prosecutor in the Calley case, Aubrey M. Daniel III, refused comment on the verdict, as did the trial judge, Col. Reid 
W. Kennedy. 
The defendant's attractive red haired girl friend, Ann Moore, dabbed at her eyes with a han­dkerchief after the verdict was read. 
Calley did not break down, and his attorneys later agreed that he had "prepared himself for the worst" while hoping for the best. 


Founder 

"We want to serve you better" 
ALL YOU 

CAN EAT 

Mon.-Thur. 5 pm-10 pm 

All the chicken or batter fried cod, served with ranch toast, french fries, and cole slaw. $1.45 chicken, $l.l5 Fish 
Fri. -Sat. OPEN TIL 2:30 a 
• 
Cor1.er of Edison and lrgnwood 

there are many people who ~hare my concerns." 
Bayh met here with Democratic precinct workers over the weekend and also ad­dressed a Democratic workshop at the Oregon state fairgrounds in Salem. 
At Salem, Bayh criticized alleged spying by the federal government on U.S. citizens. He said the "snoopery" threatens freedom "so dearly bought and preserved." 
Bayh said he feared that rapidly accumulating data banks could be used "to stifle legitimate political dissent." He said that just the existence of such data banks threatens individual liberty. 
The Hoosier Democrat also said wage and profit control measures should be used to halt inflation if voluntary programs fail to do the job. 
He told the Oregon Democrats he expects inflation to continue throughout the coming year. 
Bayh also urged full voting rights for the nation's young people 
SERVICES 
sreen-Philllps Food Sales. Call in pizza orders before 11:00 pm. 1294 or 1705. Pick up at 11:30. Stop on your way home from the library. $1.25 Cheese $1.40 Mushroom $1.50 Pepperoni $1.65 Everything 
Crypt-New Hours 12:30--4:00 Now on Stock 
Hendrix-Cry of Love-$3.60 Cat Stevens-Ten for Tillerman --$3.10 Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection $3.1(: 
Mountain-Nantucket_Sieighride 
HOUSING 
Professional male to share beautiful apartment with student instructor now, summer or fall-Call 233-2394 after 5 p.m. 
Will exchange house in San Antonio, Texas for house or apartment in ND area. June, July, August or any part thereof. Four bedrooms, 2 baths, Beautiful residential district. Mrs. Anna Norton, 743 Susie Court, San An­tonio, Texas 70216 
'71-'72 Seniors need roommates for O.C. house­Call Terry 234-3357 
To Be Married Student needs suitable Off-Campus housing for 71-72 school year; Preferably furnished, Close to campus, and Reasonable 
Call Tom 282-2250 Leave Message 

Wanted to Rent· House for Fall-Spring 1971-72. Single Woman SMC. Faculty. Call AnnCiark_4503. 
For rent over summer: Four bedroom house, air-conditioning, two-car 
1 

garage, Good Location. Call 1075 WANTED 
Wanted -1 good typist for a senior essay. Call 233-3453 Dave. 




CLASSIFIED 
ADVERTISEMENTS Mail in or come by Observer office. For inforrmtion call 7471. 
Greeting card ideas wanted-$10 each for college oriented situations­Important you enclose self­addressed stamped return envelope-Joy Card Co.-6th Floor-18 West 18th St.-NYC 10011 
Wanted-wet suit for this weekend-Call George 232­9816 
HELP WANTED 
Newly formed Wateroea Company wants campus representatives for hottest selling item in states. 
Good commissions for a few hours work per week that can be fitted easily to your schedule. Write: 
Lightrays Designs, Inc. Lovesleep Waterbeds 
Division 3727 Walnut Street Philadelphia, Pa. '19104 
or Call: (215) 349-9330 
Interesting, fun job. Prefer business or graduate student but en­thusiasm main requirement. Able to work on your own for in­ternational student travel organization. Represen­tatives eligible for free trips to Europe, Caribbean, Mexico the year round-plus good commissions. Write: 
University Student Services Students Overseas Division 
3733 Walnut St. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19104 or Call: 
(215) 349-9330 
Boy Scouting Summer Camp Jobs-Field Sports Instructor-21 yrs. old (by Junel-N.R.A. certificate $700-Water Front Super­visor-21 yrs. old (by June)­Red Cross W.S.I. $800-Call 1253 weekdays 4-5 p.m. 
Pizza Hut No. 2 (2037 Edison)-Help Wanted­Female -21 and over. · 

Men of all trades to North Slope, Alaska and the Yukon -around $2800 a month. For complete in­formation write to Job Research, P.O. ~ox 161, Stn. A, Toronto, Ont. ­Enclose $3.00 to cover cost 
RIDES 

Fort Lauderdale-Ride needed for John -1527 and Craig -8780 Can leave Monday April 5. 
FOR SALE 
Time, Inc. 282·2250 Available at Student Rates: Time, Life, Sports lilustrated, & -Fortune M agazi_ne. Call Tom, <82-2250 
STEREO DISCOUNTS 
PIONEER SX-990  $239.95  
PIONEER SX-770  $199.00  
KOSS  PR0-4A  HEAD­ 

PHONES LIST $50 DIS. $34.95 ALSO DISCOUNTS ON OTHER EQUIPMENT 
TURNTABLES, TAPE RECORDERS, SPEAKERS, ETC. ALLOW 10-15 DAYS DELIVERY 
CALL MARK 1501 
'66 Chev. Impala-2 dr. hardtop-283 V8 automatic, power steering,air. cheap $750-call 289-3748 after 5 p.m. 
$150 Harmony 12 string guitar with case-make offer-Bill 3263 
'64 Ford Cheap Must sell this weekend 259-8475. Excel shape 
King size water mattress $39 ppd. Finest quality. Guaranteed. Manufacturer seeks local distributor. Contact Steve Boone, In­dustrial Fabrics, Inc., 735 South Fidalgo Street, Seattle Washington, 98108 --206--763--8911 
Attention-anyone using cash at the South Pay Cafe-Save Money-$10 worth of food coupons only $6--call 1893 
Sale or trade-'68 Ford Torino--GT-4 sp-bucket seats, good condition, $1525 or offer, call 283-7637 about 6 or after 11 
MacGregor clubs Niclaus 080, steel ten irons' four woods, bag-Used on~ summer-can 7647 
FOUND Found: pocket watch-south Dining Hall-March 25--cal 7798 or 282-1319. 
LOST Lost from S.E. Dining Hall: Calc. text, Eng. Mandala, 3 note books. Name & room number in each. Reward. TRAVEL 
Cruise to Bahama Islands for Easter Vacation-$100 for 4 days­Includes scuba diving, spearfishing, nights in port at West End and Freeport, meals and sleeping ac­comodations-Ages 18-23­For more information write: Vic Horrell, P.O. Box 892, Cocoa Beach, Florida, 32931. 
TRIP 

Want to take a trip to EUROPE this summer? Fly in a jet chartered by the NATIONAL UNION OF STUDENTS and SAVE! Approx. 60 dates available for round trips betw. London & 
N.Y. this summer for $245. Many other benefits (travel passes, hotel discounts, etc.) Also available. For info. or application call: Tom 282-2250 from 5-10 pm. Mon-Fri. 
Spend the summer in EUROPE. Charter jets to London, Amsterdam and Paris. More than 40 dates available. IN­TERNATIONAL STUDENTS ACADEMIQUE SOCIETY. Also eligible for many other benefits (railroad passes, hotel discounts, etc.) For information call Frank 233-8142. 
PERSONAL 
Hey Comeau you want to know?-Wa, ha,ha 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Page 4 






THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
GlenS. Corso, Editor-in--Chief 
Bruce Rieck Business Manager John Abowd, Executive Editor 
I think that I shall never see A billboard lovely as a tree. Perhaps unless the billboards fall, I'll never see a tree at all 
Nash 

FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3,1966 NOTRE DAME,INDIANA 



Tlte SLC: What A ~~ess, 
Dig this: 

The SLC ·the distinguished Student Life Council, thz highest and most important board of decisionmakers yet inhabited by students, spent fourty-five minutes attempting to decide whether or not they had voted on Chris Ottenweller's motion two weeks ago or whether they had voted on a motion to vote on Chris Ottenweller's motion. Fourty-five minutes! They finally -through deliberations far too complex to relate here -determined that they had indeed voted last meeting to vote on Chris Ottenweller's motion. This meeting, then, they voted on Chris Ottenweller's motion. Let history note that the vote on Ottenweller's motion was not substantively different from the vote to vote on Ottenweller's motion. 
This was one of the SLC's more productive meetings. The SLC finally did resolve the Sophomore Car hassle. It only took them a year to hash out the rules to park a hundred-odd extra cars, and yesterday was the culminating day of glory. Unfortunately, the former incident was more typical of the SLC this political season than the latter. The SLC this past year has been loaded with bizzarre parlimentary dodges, self-defeating debates, and general illucidity, cupidity, and stupidity. 
It was tragic that the SLC behaved in such a manner this year, because such behavior abrogated the dignity of an important body. It will be more than tragic if next year's SLC behaves similarly. For next year this University must make its most important moves towards coeducation; it is more than imperitive that the SLC assure that student opinion is represented in these moves. 
What ean be done? Of course, the old promises of researehilng bills, and researching them thoroughly have to all be renewed. But more than that, the curious and pervasive chord of hate and disharmony has to be ter­minated.. This year, representatives of the student body, the faculty, and the administration, thought of themselves as members of the organizations they represent. Next year, they must think of themselves as members of the SLC, committed to deal for the school as a whole. For next year, it won't be the student body, the faculty, or the administration that's on the line. It'll be the SLC as a whole. 

The following is a letter written by Prof. Michael Hinkemeyer to SMC Education Chairman Eugene Campanale. 

Dear Mr. Campanale, 
Now that I have received from the college a major satisfaction that I have sought in my case, I feel that it is time to turn to perhaps more important issues. 
As you know, recent revelations of racial prejudice here at the college cannot but trouble those of us who are of good will toward all elements of the community and society. I remind you, in this regard, that it has not been satisfactorily demonstrated to me that my non­renewal was not for religious 
reasons. Education ought to hire at least one black, and one non-Catholic,
I discern that your conception of your position at the moment is and that the full membership of 
the department be consulted in

merely that of facilitator. The decisions of the· department, I any hirings. Such has not been 
understand, are made by two the case so far. Perhaps because nuns and one non-teaching lay you are not fully aware that woman. I think, however, that it college faculties in true in­is now time for you to stand up stitutions of higher education act on your own for once in an have the responsibility for 
attempt to lessen racism and determining their constitution. prejudice in the Christian college Since you apparently will have 
community. no teaching duties next year, you 
You will have at least three will have time to devote yourself positions to fill next year if the to the grave situation that has 
final absorption of the depart­arisen in the department of which 
ment by Notre Dame does not you are chairman at the moment. occur previously. Moreover, your I know you will wish to act position is probably incapable of favorably to these matters prior alteration on either side of the 
to outside interests in the road. You should have nothing to situation. 
fear. Sincerely, I feel that the Department of Michael T. Hinkemeyer Ph.D. 
All's Fair ... 
Don looked at his Girl Friend cautiously. His head moved around, analyzing the situation carefully. He must be clever, for his new Girl Friend had a prudish reputation, and a great body. Musn't make the ''move'' to hastily. One might miss the big opportunity. 
The setting was great. They were alone at her house, no parents or annoying siblings. He knew she felt something for him; she had said so the last time they met. He concentrated on making himself look sin­cerely in love. He paused to think of the right tactic to use. He decided to try the "I'm Not Glib, But Here's How I Feel" Approach. A brief introduction was followed by the key phrase, "I love you." That, thought Don, is the crux of the matter...if she believes that, the hardest 
part is over. 
Major Siegen looked at his radar screen in a storm of mixed emotions. An Enemy Transport had materialized on his radar screen. It was a beautiful target --except for one fact, it was flying over the territory of a supposedly neutral country. Major Siegen cursed the orders that prevented him from crossing the border to shoot it down. 
The radio crackled just as he was about to give up the useless temptation and fly away. The voice was in the Enemy's language. "This is Transport 645, our navigation equipment is malfunctioning, request guidance instructions, please". · 
Major Siegen's mouth watered. If he remembered correctly there weren't any Enemy bases within range ofthe Transport. A daring idea flashed into his skull. He adjusted his radio transmitter to the tran­sport's frequency. "This is ground control, we have you on our screen. Change your course sixty degrees to your right and you will be headed straight for our base," said the Major fluently in the Enemy language. 
Don continued his lines. After an initial scepticism he finally jubilantly saw that she had believed him. How stupid must she be to believe his silly lies. Yet, he congratulated himself on his shrewd 
acting ability. 
Major Siegen rejoiced. The Transport was finally turning. What fools they were to accept his charade. "Deception," he thought, "is one of the prime principles of warfare. One must expect lies as well as bullets from one's Enemy. Sure deception is lousy, but then war is a lousy business. If the Enemy is going to kill you, you must take ad­vantage of everything to stop him. We're at war, not playing with friends." 
Don locked his arms around his Girl Friend. Sensing her tem­perament with a veteran skill, he waited for the proper moment to ask the Big Question. She evaded and hedged but he pursued the attack. At last she relented, saying, "After all we're in love, aren't we?" 
The Transport had crossed the border. Major Siegen maneuvered quickly behind her. Too late, the transport tried .to escape. But the ace Major easily matched her little tricks with an expert pursuit. 
Close as he could get with his girl friend, Don enjoyed the fruits of his labor. 
Major Siegen savored in the delight of the kill. From beneath his fighter, a Sidewinder missile flew, speading towards the Transport. Its long pointed form homed in on her. With a final quick motion, it slid ttp her tailpipe. A second later it exploded deep inside its victim. 
Afterwards, as his roomate admiringly commented on the skill of Don's seduction, Don thought of searching out a new Girl Firend. Suddenly a pang of conscience struck him. It was soon dismissed as he said to himself "All's fair in love and war." 
The Party 
Host -Jim 

Refreshments -Larry, Dan, Joe, Joe Floorshow -Indian Virgin, Glen and A. T., T.C. and himself Guests -Chris, Jim, Eileen, Bill, Tom, Ann, Barb, Jim, Jerry, John, Don, Bill 
PRANK ON! 
Tuesday, March 30, 1971 7HR O.&rEIHISt Page 5 
Fr. Griffin & rick smith 


on America, the war, 

As of three o'clock yesterday afternoon, this page was blank, with no prospects of being immediately filled with truth, beauty, knowledge, or anything at all, for that matter. Mter a moment's con­templation, it was decided that to do the big picture at the bottom with a caption on top thing wouldn't work, too soon since the last one. So the only other alternative which presented itself was the interview with some neat person. Which led me to the sacred portals of the noted rector of Keenan Hall.
0 of patriotism,great men and tragic errors 
Reverend Robert Griffin, C.S.C. had just returned from a six thousand mile trip with the Fighting Irish Glee Club across the western parts of this country. So the first part of the conversation was sort of centered around that experience, with other various topics being related to it. 
Such as patriotism. "One of the things that kind of bothered me was when someone asked that we sing 'God Bless America'. Certainly no one had any qualms about asking God to bless America. The thing that struck me was that too often today this kind of thing is used as a kind of touchstone, almost as though you are exacting a loyalty oath from someone. There seems to be some forgetfulness among some American Catholics. It's very sad. There are loyalties above the loyalties to one's country. 
"One is very much struck by the beauty of the country. All kinds of religious sentiments come oozing up from the soul. You get the feeling that it must have taken some very great men to cross the desert and the mountains. It's one thing to drive along the road knowing that there is a Stuckey's a mile away, where they have hot and cold running water and milk shakes available. So to see America is certainly something which calls forth sentiments of patriotism. At the same time you realize that there have been some tragic errors, such as the war that continues to go on and on. Saturday I learned of the death of a friend of mine who died of cancer. There was also the mother of a boy here who died of cancer over the break. When people are dying of something as horrendous as cancer at such early ages while billions and billions are being spent in armaments and defense without logical reason ..." 
0 of th~ berrigans, crucifixion & loud sounding barrels 
I asked Griff about possible actions which could 
be taken by those who found themselves opposed to 
the war. 
"This, of course, is the great question. I find more and more fellows seeking C.O. classifications. This is something you can do when you are young. When you become older it is difficult to know what to do. This, I suppose is the reason that the Berrigans are such a reproach to the conscience of the country. When you see the things they do, you think to yourself, maybe there is some great inner logic in what they are doing and a great inconsistency in that you too should be doing the same thing. I suppose what all of us want to do is to have the appearance of doing courageous things without ever really become involved in risking oneself. It's a very easy thing to do, for example, to go into the chapel and preach a sermon against the war. Some people resist you and other people who are already convinced of the foolishness of war-I guess everybody is convinced of it. I hope they are. You may not have persuaded anyone, or maybe a few. 
The fact is that you can become hyper-excited 

being Christian, et a/. 
over this and make impassioned speeches, write impassioned letters to editors. It's not really going to be any great skin off your nose to do it. I think this is what must have happened with the Berrigans. They would see kids taking courageous stances and they felt the need to somehow show witness to the foolishness to what is happening. It's been said many times that the best way to found a new religion is to get yourself crucified and to rise again in three days. I'm not sure about the resurrection, but the crucifixion is the thing that gave credence to the teachings of our Lord and indicates the intensity of his convictions--an idea for which a man will die. These are the principles by which he will live. If you are deeply enough into something, you are going to have to be willing to take a risk. This is the kind of feeling, the kind of fear that I have--that maybe I encourage people to do something which will cause 
them to risk themselves, with me nothing more than a loud sounding barrel . . . 
0 of tim mccarry, guilt & apathy 
"This is why I was so touched by Tim McCarry. Here was I at this University and here was this kid at this University. You may say many things about Notre Dame, but a lot of people--pacifists, people who have a rather enlightened view of things--they have spent four years here. They sometimes come to an insight about the place that it is sad and that it is lacking. But none of them came here with this awareness. It is through the books they read, the people who taught them that provided a situation whereby they could come to a judgment about Notre Dame. So here was this boy who had been here for four years and whose conscience had been formed · in such a way that he was very much opposed to the war and he felt he had to do something. So he went over to the Administration Building and placed himself in the way of the Dow Chemical recruiters. As a result of it, he gets arrested. It's a case of a house being divided against itself. I think this is very true of Notre Dame. A boy's conscience is so exquisitely formed and he has taken the Christian religion as people here have taught him and he tries to follow it out. Things seem very bad and as a consequence of this witness and of the things he does. he is arrested. There must be a bett~r way. 
"I wonder. I have no idea what his thinking or mentality was. But when somebody kills himself, and he has been in a place like this, I think that there must be questions in everyone's mind. I haven't heard it asked. But the question must occur about the guilt we share in this. I don't want to sentimentalize or idealize. But he must have been a very sensitive oerson." 
Continuing in the same vein, I talked about how people here and everywhere seem so apathetic, to use a by now trite term, and how no one seems willing to become involved, to be trite again. Why? 
"This is certainly not an easy question to answer. I don't know. This isn't to answer your question directly, but I don't get frightened by kids who have fierce convictions and fierce ideals and who are militant and demanding. Maybe I would if ·they kidnapped me. It is a fact that this kind of fierceness and committment is lost too soon. Too early begins the compromise with the world. This has charac­terized the Church. It has characterized many who want to share in the so-called good life of America. One might be involved in the student strike or inner city activities or something like that for a while. But as you grow older, you realize that you want to become a junior member of the firm and to own a. house in the country. They conform. That's the period I worry about. They cool. In the name of a job or the family, I can understand that a man wants to provide for the family. But I am saddened that it so often involves the death of the most beautiful ideals. It is the same way in the priesthood. When you are ordained, you are going to change the world. 
0 of 'in causes', losing one's humanity & weariness 
"I think that many kids come from comfortable homes and are used to the comforts of home. The difficult thing is that many kids will be anti-war. But once they have found that they have the draft behind them, that theywon't be drafted, they stop caring about it. 
"One of the things I have noted over the years is the 'in cause' of the moment. One point is civil rights. Then it is war. Right now it seems to be ecology. It seems that the 'in cause' leaves too many unfinished causes, the war is one of them .... people should return their hands to the 
unfinished task." We then went on to discuss the 'death' of the peace movement and the relationship between that and the fact that many people felt that if anything _at all was accomplished, it was not enough. "I know that there reaches a point where you seem to be in utter weariness of saying anything against the war. It's all been said, the documen­tation has all been presented, one has called at­tention to every atrocity that was possible. At the same time, when you allow yourself to be worn out. the other side wins. Maybe we have reached the time for decent people to make an appeal to other decent people who might be at the point of being discouraged, of being thereby open. I don't think the answer is to give up. I think you have to keep hammering and hammering. Otherwise the other guys think they have won, or something." The discussion then proceeded into what could be called a more social realm. I made mention of my own fears of becoming something less than human through too great a devotion to a cause -reaching the point where the ideology or the cause I support becomes more important than the people whom I pretend to be liberating. Something along the lines of that old adage 'to liberate you I must burn your village or even kill you.' How, then, to retain one's humanity and concern for one's brothers and sisters while fighting the oppressor. "It requires a tremendous sensitivity to really realize that other people are human beings. It's something we all say, a kind of concept. It involves the ability to put ourselves into the other person's boots. The ability to imagine to some degree what he is suffering. The larger the group involved, the harder it becomes. What is it like to be a Viet­namese peasant. Or to be Richard Nixon. Certainly Richard Nixon is not a bad man. A dull man, but not a bad man. We all realize that we are human in unattractive ways. It is difficult to maintain a commonsensitivity at a mass level. It is true that wars are carried on in the name of justice. Another nation must be punished. It seems that some people are willing to carry the inflicting of · justice to doomsday. The national pride is wounded and therefore we must go rushing in. It seems thwt when a country goes to war it feels that for the sake of winning, a great many values can be pushed aside. 
0of inflicting justice, 
embarrassment,& Christ 
It's no one's personal sin, it's no one's personal shame, it's no one's personal responsibility. Looking at the goals and not the means ... 
"I think I should burn that tape. 
Not wi~hi~g to dwell overly long on the subject, I asked Gnff If he could expand on certain comments he made at a Mass just prior to break. The comment ~ rem~mbered most clearly went something like, 
Jesus IS what you make him,' which probably casts an inaccurate light on the homily, but that's about all I could remember. 
"There's nothing more difficult to recall than a sermon once given. 
"We are Christ. We are Christ in the World. Christ has come, He is in us and He is with us. It's very simple. The Christian believes in Christ. his life. his message, the primacy of love in human conduct. He 
believes that Jesus did so love the world that he died for it. So that what one does is to live one's life as a witness to Christ, and to, in a sense be another Christ in the world, being the same Christ. Christ ?oes n_ot belong to a moment of history. He simply IS, He IS present. One can belong to Him. It is with a belief in Christ, in His grace, in His message, in His love that one is His witness and one tries to become His hands, His feet, His person. I think this is what ~hristiall:ity is about. It is sentimental as hell to say It. S~eakmg of religion is an embarrassing thing to do, .m_ casual conversation. As a priest, as a Chnst~an, ~s a human being, I find myself in­teractmg with people on two levels. The first is on the personal level. I hope I would like people even if I were not a priest or Christian even if I had no beliefs whatsoever. I find people'are left cold when they feel ~o~ are concerned about them because you are prachcmg some kind of Christian ethic. People need more of a sense of being cared about, not being ca~e~ about-only because you are practicing your rehgwn. When one is a Christian one is a child of God, one has the office of maintaining the attitude toward life which is like that of Christ in which there is this concern, that His love, His c'oncern for 
the downtrodden for the little guy was very genuihe. If one feels one is a Christian one has a similar concern. That is what moves us in Scripture. This is wha~ Christ left us to do. This may not be very tangible. One has a particular commitment to Christ." 



WITH MAX SHULMAN 
!By lht author of Rallu Round tht Flag, Boys .. , Dobit Giflia ... tlr. I 
Tenure; or Old Teachers Never Die 
Today let us discuss tenure, an academic custom which stipulates that if a college doesn't fire a teacher fast enough, they are stuck with him forever. 
The rules of tenure vary from campus to campus, but in general, a teacher gets tenure when he reaches the rank of associate professor or, failing that, when he completes eight years on the faculty. There­after, he cannot be fired except for two rigidly defined causes: a) if he is habitually nude during lectures; or b) if the college can prove he has been dead for more than one semester. 
Small wondler, then, that colleges are so careful about granting tenure. Who wants to be saddled with a dull teacher for the rest of his lumpish life? For-let us speak frankly-e'l(en among a group as glit­tering as teachers, you will find an occasional deadhead. Take, for ex­ample, Ralph J. Stagnant. 
Mr. Stagna111t was not only dull, he was stupefying. Believe me, I would never say such a mean thing, true though it is, if he were a sensi­tive man, but he is riot. In fact, if you want an example of how insensi­tive he is, he wrote his entire Ph. D. thesis on a chair that had a nail 
sticking through the seat. And if you want further evidence of his dullness, the thesis was called "The Dynamics of Luggage." 
But even so, the academic job market was booming at the time Mr. Stagnant got his doctorate, and he soon found employment. What's more, by blending with the ivy and always walking on tiptoe, he managed never to attract the Dean's attention and thus got rehired 
every year. 

But finally came Year No.8, and Mr. Stagnant knew his luck had run out. This time rehiring would mean tenure and naturally the Dean would first take a good hard look. How, thought Mr. Stagnant with a sinking heart, could he persuade the Dean he was worth keeping? 
Well sir, as everyone knows, the way to impress Deans is to pub­lish books. So Mr. Stagnant, who thus far had been too sluggish even to attempt a book, now began turning them out at a frantic rate­The Foot Locker Through History . ..Valise and the Single Girl . .. My Satchel, Right or Wrong. Alas, the publisher rejected them all. 
Finally, in desperation, Mr. Stagnant tried a novel, but this fared no better. "We are herewith returning your cornball novel," wrote the publisher. "Are you kidding with this stuff? Can you seriously believe that in this modern day and age anybody would want to read a tear­jerker about a rich Harvard boy who marries a poor Radcliffe girl who dies of leukemia?" 
And so, alas, Mr. Stagnant was fired. Today, a broken man, he lives in a New Orleans slum, working part-time as a praline. 
There is a powerful lesson here for all of us: if you want tenure, don't be dull. 

Take, for instance, Miller High Lif.e Beer. Do you think that if Miller had been dull, it would have enjoyed a tenure of 115 years so far? Of course not. Miller abides because it is the very opposite of dull; it is lively, sparkling, vivacious, animated, sprightly, buoyant, spry, ardent, sportive and waggish. Just pour a Miller and the hills are alive with the sound of music, and there's a bright golden haze on the mead­ow, and every cloud has a silver lining, and zing! go the strings of your heart. 
Perhaps you think I'm being a bit effusive about Miller High Life. If you do, I ask you to remember one thing: to me Miller is more than just a beer; it is also an employer. 
* * 
It's true. We, the brewers of Miller High Life, bring you this column every week, sometimes nervously. And every day, always confidently, we bring you Miller High Life. I! you've got the time, we've got the beer, in cans, bottles and kegs-and all ways delicious. 

Mideast fights amid talks 
was no sign of an early break inForeign Minister Mahmoud deadlocked U.N. supervised
Riadl pressed Egypt's new peace talks in New York.

diplomatic offensive against Israel Monday with meetings in New clashes were reported m Paris with Freneh Foreign Jordan between Arab guerrillas 
Minister Maurice Schumann and and the Jordanian army. Syria 
U.N. Middle East mediator offered to mediate the dispute but Gunnar V. Jarring. But there st.ill maintained its right to protect the 



KENT STATE 
The campus CAMPUS callintheGuard? score: 4 students Hereiswhattruly dead, 11 wounded. UNDER happened-and Now Pulitzer Prize FIRE why. lncludingwinnerJamesMich-portraits of key ener reconstructs, hour people who have re­by hour, the events that mained obscure -until led to the bloody climax. now. Conqensed from He answers such ques-Michener's forthcoming tions as: Were outside book. One of 41 articles agitators involved in the & features in the March riot?Wasitnecessaryto READER'S DIGEST 
Palestinians from King Hussein's forces. 
Israel said its patrols battled 
guerrillas in the occupied Gaza 
Strip and the Golan Heights of 
Syria and that one Israeli soldier 
and two guerrillas were killed. A 
belated guerrilla report said they 
lost several men killed when a 
raiding party inside Israel ran 
out of ammunition. 

There were no late reports on 
casualties in the fighting in 
Jordan which guerrilla leader 
Yasser Arafat had described as a 
"massacre." 

Guerrilla sources in Cairo said 
at least 70 commandos were 
killed and "hundreds" wounded 
in battling over the weekend. 

The Jarring talks have bogged down over Israel's refusal to commit itself to withdrawal from all Arab territory captured in the 1967 war as the price for peace. 
Riad's meeting with Jarriflg came as a surprise. Jarring was reported on his way back to Moscow where he serves as Swedish ambassador to join his family for the Easter holidays and his presence in Paris was not known until Riad announced they would meet. 
The Riad Jarring meeting lasted two hours. Jarring refused to comment on the discussions. 
An Egyptian spokesman said Jarring told Riad "he has quit New York because he considered the situation as in an impasse." 
U.N. spokesmen in New York said there had been no change in Jarring's mission. 
TIHE OBSERVER 
BlJSINESS OFFICE 
is now accepting applications for the position of Business 
Manager for the Academic year 1971-72. 
Applicant ~ust be rresent Junior Business Administration major or MBA Cand.Idate. ~ an u~dergraduate, it is preferred that applicant be concentratmg m either Fmance or Accountancy. He must have a workingk_nowledge of both fields as position entails periodic preparation of formal fn~an<;ial statements, (Incomes, Financial PositiOn, Source and Ap­phcatwn of Fundls, Cash flow) mail!tenance o~ note liability, main­
tenance of Accounts Receivable, Capital budgeting, bookkeeping and 
other aspects of financial management. . ' 
Individual should be oriented toward the growth of the Ob· server and be presentable in appearance and personality as position requires dealing with University ad· ministration, local financial institutions, and advertisers and their agencies. . 
Applicant must be willing to devote 15 to 20 hours perweek. There is a -possibility of academic credit in Business Administration and the salary 1s $100 per month. 
Apply by sending letter including name, local address and phone number1 BA concentration, experience in extra­curricular business management; and other information deemed pertinent via first class mail to: 
The Observer 
c/o Bruce Rieck , Business Manager P.O. Box 1100 
. :': 





Hinga: a. young man named desire 
seven games a week. Jim, or
by J.W. Findling 
course, played on the weekends.
Observer Sportswriter 
Younger brother Mike, who was 
When Jim Hinga walks into Mr. a "walk-on" on this year's fresh­B's Lounge on the southwest edge man squad, played junior highof Muncie, Indiana, it's a good bet ball at the time. Tom, Jim's that everyone in the place knows youngest brogher, was playinghim. Not that Jim Hinga is a folk­grade school ball. And as if that hero or not because he is wearing wasn't enough, Mr. Hinga was his Notre Dame varsity let­head basketball coach at Ball terjacket. The reason the patrons State University.of B 's recognize Jim Hinga is This year the "Muncie Milk­because he knows all of them--by man" (a nickname with which name. For Jim Hinga is the kind Tom Sinnott pinned 11im duringof guy who doesn't wish to be sophomore year) was sidelined obscure. Ifyou know who he is, he all season with knee problems.will make every attempt to learn After an operation in the fall, 
your name. And remember it. Hinga attempted to play on the 
The friendly Hinga graduated knee before it was properly from Burris High School in healed. The doctor even thought Muncie where he was not only he was fully capable of playing this small school's outstanding ball. Most players could have basketball player but also its best possibly done it. But most players baseball and track-and-field don't play as hard as.Jim Hinga. performer. If Burris High had He reinjured it, and as he himself football, he certainly would have said during mid-season, "Unless been its best player. Whatever he Oral Roberts shows up, I won't be lacks in ability, Jim Hinga playing ball this season." compensates for with desire. His Jim Hinga was wrong. tremendous hustle, which often Although Coach Dee told him sent him flying into the expensive before the Irish's last home game floor-level seats of the ACC, was with Western Michigan that he appreciated by his teammates wasn't going to play, Hinga for two seasons. ·dressed anyway--hoping that he 
Needless to say, Jim comes would get to play for just a few from a basketball family. When moments. After Austin left that he was in high school, his mother memorable contest and amidst was accustomed to seeing six or the roar, both Austin and John 

Of Notre Dame 

When you came you gave me back to myself 
Pleick, remembering Hinga as After he gets married this in libraries. I bet he makes it, too. not only a great teammate but summer, Jim hopes to go to law Because for a young man named also as a friend, asked Dee to school. That wili probably mean desire, hope dies hard. play Jim. Dee submitted. And in several more Saturday the few seconds he hobbled up and down the court, Jim did the two things he always did the best­-he played good defense and he stole the ball to set up a basket. 
Jim Hinga has always had a quantity of self-confidence of the noncorrosive variety. He thinks r he could have helped the team this season. "I know I could have made them work a little harder in practice; we might have been a better team ... regardless, I am very pleased with the season. The guys did a tremendous job. Remember, UCLA is 29 and ONE." 
One incident that this reporter can't help but recall as a testimony to Jim's dedication occurred on the Saturday evening preceding our game with St. Louis. I intercepted him as he left his ninth floor carrell in the library with his crutches. "I've got to get back and listen to the guys play St. Louis," he said, "I hope nobody sees me.. .imagine a jock in the library on Saturday night." 

NBA proves Austin best 
Dame also was selected in the Wayne and New Mexico to NEW YORK (UPI) -Notre first round, going to t~ Cleveland. 
Dame's All American, Austin Milwaukee Bucks. Sid Catlett of University of Kentucky star Carr, was thz first player p~cked the Irish went to Cincinnati in e Larry Steele, who played at Monday when the National fourth round. Bainbridge, was picked by 
Basketball Association began its Cincinnati in the second rou~d Portland in the third round. college player draft. He was grabbed John Mengelt of Auburn; Larry Weatherford of Purdue taken by Cleveland. who played high school ball at was chosen by Chicago in the fifth 
Two of Carr's running mates on Elwood. New York selected round. 
the Irish team were among Gregg Northington of Alabama Madison's Willie Humes, who 
collegiate players with Indiana State and formerly of In­played college ball at Idaho 
connections picked up by the dianapolis Wood in the second State, went to Atlanta in the Sixth 
NBA teams. round. Another second round round. 
Forward Collis Jones of Notre selection was Willie Long of Fort 
touch one-you-another warmth grows 
see one-you-another light begins 
each-you-other 
all I've got 
all I need. 
I wrote this on one of those nights we have all spent at this school­alone in a sea of noise. It certainly has no place on a sports page. But since this is my last article for this paper, I thought I might take the opportunity to share it with you. 
Who are you? You are John Hessler quietly reading poetry. You are Charley Blum drunk after a rugby game. You are one of my room­mates laughing at my Hoosier accent. You are Rich Hunter running wildly through the Interhall Office. You are all my pre-med friends who made it with me through Hofman, Thorson, Freeman, and Bretthauer. You are Austin Carr shaking my hand and saying thanks for some "good ink" on the sports page. You are a hometown honey who found someone else or a St. Mary's girl who did the same. You are Notre Dame. I must say it--corny or not-I consider myself lucky to be here and I love the place. 
I want to especially thank Terry Shields for giving me the chance to write for this paper. My mother always said I was a frustrated sportswriter. Surely this whole campus should be thankful to Terry Shields. In his four years on the Observer, Terry has written more words read by NO students than any other man in this school's history. He has worked very hard in providing this sports-minded school with a first-class sports page. He has done a tremendous job. 
From my experience as a fan and reporter of Notre Dame sports, I have learned one lesson. Refuting Vince Lombardi and others, I would like to propose that winning is not everything. It is important as a means but not as an end. The only thing that can be expected of an atlete is that he does his best to win. Losing is not to be considered as failure but only as an inspiration to do better the next time. Every Notre Dame team I have ever watched in any sport thought about only one thing during a game--that is, winning. Of course, the Irish didn't always win, but they did their best to. And as long as Notre Dame men stand for that, I'll stand behind Notre Dame. 
There have been many thrilling moments. My greatest thrill came in Dallas on the first day of 1970. The Irish had just lost the most ex­citing football game I have ever seen. My friends and I were walking into the Aldophus Hotel in downtown Dallas following the game. I was the last one through the door. In the corner of the hotel lobby was a cute ·American Airlines stewardess. 
"Are y'all from Notre Dame?" she asked. 
"Yes," I said proudly. 
"That's a very good school," she replied with a smile. 
All I could say was, "Thank you." 

DeCicco explains tourney 
by Joe Passiatore Observer Sportswriter 
' 
With the International Fencing Tournament only ten days away, Notre Dame fencing coach and 
, tournament host, Mike DeCicco, has his hands full. Coach DeCicco has gone to great lengths. to insure that contestants from . the 22 participating countries will be well received. 
An "En Garde " luncheon will be held at the Athletic and Convocation Center in the monogram room. Tickets may be purchased through the South Bend-Mishawaka Chamber of Commerce. In addition to par­ticipants and officials being present, Coach DeCicco is hoping to have such notables as Representative John Brademas, and Frs. Hesburgh and Burt­chaell in attendance. 
Coach DeCicco expressed the hope that Notre Dame students would be hospitable and extend the courtesies of the campus to the foreign visitors. "We have several families in South Bend who are going to greet teams of their nationality and have a get­together to make them feel welcome. If we could get some students involved in this tour­nament it would really be tremendous. We need students for scorers, time keepers, tourist guides, and people who speak foreign languages." Anyone interested should contact coach DeCicco at 283-8356. 
All contestants are under 21 and there will be three divisions (epee, foil, and sabre) for the men and competition in the foil weapon for the women. Action is scheduled between Friday, April 9, and Monday, April 12, in the a documentary of the meet with

ACC. 
the intent of educating theCoach DeCicco also disclosed general public about fencing.
that plans are underway to make 
Just for the Record 
Mike Pavlin 
At the completion of his career, Austin Carr stands fifth in NCAA scoring with 2560 points and second in scoring average with a 34.6 mark. In scoring, he trails Dick Hemric of Wake Forest (a 4-year player), Elvin Hayes of Houston, Oscar Robertson of Cincinnati, and Pete Maravich of LSU who leads with 3667 points. 
With 1367 points, Collis Jones is now fourth on the all-time NO 
scoring list. After winning 20 or more games for the fourth year in a row for the first time in history, NO teams upped their record to 943 wins, 468 losses, and a percentage of .668. All of the following are new records unless otherwise indicated. 
TEAM---SEASON 
1.) Attendence: 296,347 
INDIVIDUAL---SEASON • 1.) Most Points by a Senior: Austin Carr 1101 2.) Most Points (regular season) : Carr 976 3.) Scoring Average (r.s.((: Carr 37.5 4.) Field Goal Attempts (r.s.): Carr 731 5.) Field Goal Attempts (all games) : Carr 832 6.) Field Goals Made (r.s.): Carr 382 7.) Free Throw Attempts: Carr 297 8.) <Record Tied): Personal Fouls, John Pleick 104 
INDIVIDUAL---CAREER 1.) Most Points: Carr 2560 2.) Scoring Average: Carr 34.6 3.) Field Goal Attempts: Carr 1923 4.) Field Goals Made: Carr 1017 5.) FIELD Goad percentage: Carr .529 6.)Free Throw Attempts (3 years(: Carr 646 7.) Free Throw percentage: Carr .814 8.) <Record Tied): Games Appeared In, Collis Jones 85 
INDIVIDUAL---TOURNAMENT 1.) Most Points (Career): Carr 289 2.) Field Goals Made (Career): Carr 117 3.) Free Throws (caeer): Carr 68 4.) Free Throws (Series): Carr 37 5.) Free Throws (Game): Carr 

NOW PLAYING 
'''Don't Just Lay There" and 
. 

"The Final Blow" 
PROOF OF AGE ALWAYS REQUIRED 
Cont1nued from page 1 
Dr. Scott's statement claim eo that ". . . we agreed that these areas should be formally linked 
"To Be Young, Gifted and Black," the free-flowing autobiographical play about the late black playwright Lorraine Hansberry will be performed this evening at 8:00 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
Sponsored by the Sophomore Literary Festival, the play is adapted from the letters, diaries, notebooks and plays of Miss Hansberry, who died of cancer in 1965 at the prime of h(•r career. 



Black Studies disagreement 
P:izza Hut Pete Presents 
ND & SMC 
Pitcher Night 
$1.25 for a pitcher of Budweiser or Strohs 
Monday night only-Pizza Hut l on Lincolnway 
Tuesday night only-Pizza Hut 2 on Edison Road 
"Student Specid'" 
Y2 price on any pizza or soft drink 
With School J.D. 
2 LOCATIONS -CALL AHEAD 288-6060 So. Bend no. 1 Across from I.U. 233-3827 So. Bend no. 2 Mile East of N.D. 

w·.e Are the Nations Largest! 
..-.--...t lJRBAN STUDIES EVENING t t t WEDNESDAY, MARCH 31, 1971 t t t 
7: 30 pm Room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall t ' t
' 
f 
t

t 
t

Information on

t 
t 
1. Work Study for Academic Credit
t I 
I t
t 2. Urban Studies Seminar f 
3. Urban Studies Double Major I 
f 4. Urban Studies Certificate f 
I I 
l l
--~~~~ ...~~~-~ ..-...-.-~")'0_.,._.,_..~~--~ ................_..._. ..._.~4 
so as to permit an integrated and coordinated set of effort" against these problems which recur in the lives of black students." 
The statement also claimed that the position of admissions 
Miss Hansberry's first play, ''A Raisin in the Sun, made her, at 29, the youngest American, the first woman, and the only balck playwright ever to win the New York Drama Critics' Circle A ward for the Best Play of the Year (1959). 
"To Be Young, Gifted, and Black" was adapted-by Miss Hansberry's husband Robert Nemiroff and will be performed by the only east of the play now touring nationally. 
Tickets are on sale at 
O'Laughlin Auditorium and the 
Sudent Union ticket office. The 
price for students is $1.00 adults 
$2.00. There are no reserved 
seats. 
director had been offered to a black candidate. Fr. Burtchaell termed this statement false. 
I 
h ... ) 






Literary Contests 
• 

Donald P. Costello, Director of Undergraduate Studies in English, announced that the English Department will hold four literary contests during 1971. Entries will be judged by faculty members from Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
THE SAMUEL HAZO POETRY AWARD of $50.00 is given to the undergraduate who writes the outstanding poetry of the current school year. Each 
A Women's Information Center and library is now open in the South Bend area. Sponsored by the Unitarian Church and the Womens Liberation Caucus of South Bend, the center is located at 1125 Thomas Street (phone 289­2610) .It will be open do the public from 1-5 on weekdays and 11-5 on Saturdays. 
poet is asked to limit"his entry to a maximum of five poems. · 
THE WILLIAM MITCHELL AWARD FOR PLAYWRITING' $50.00 is given to the un­dergraduate who submits the best original play. One act or longer. 
THE ND-SMC FICTION AWARD of $50.00 is given to the undergraduate who submits the best original short story, or a chapter from a novel. 
THE MEEHAN MEDAL FOR LITERARY MERIT is given to the Notre Dame senior who submits the best original essay on a literary subject. Class papers, of course, are eligible. 
All entries must be typed, double spaced, identified by the author's name, and submitted in three copies to Room 309 O'Shaughnessy by noon, on Monday, April 19, 1971. 
'::::::::::::::::::;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::~~~:;:;:*::::::;::::::::::::::::~::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::~:::::;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 
~~11 HOSTESSES WANTED ~~~~\ 
Applications for membership are now being accepted by the 
KENNEDY INSTITUTE 
Membership-is open to ND SMC students, 
Interested students should send name and address to 628 Flanner. 







