

Vol. V, No. 10~ Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community April 2, 1971 
Dziedzic appointed as Ombudsman 
by Gary Hunt Dziedzic said that in the past plans to stay on and help Dziedzic Saint Mary's students who are 
Student Body President John the Ombudsman Service acted ease into the department. This confronted with problemsBarkett appointed Paul primarily in two fashions. First, will elimate the need for a sudden through their classes on the Notre Dziedzic head of the Om-it served as an information reorganization and the inevitable Dame campus.budsman Service late yesterday service, that is; it answered inefficiency which follows such a Barkett said of the cabinet afternoon. student's questions as to how to changeover. post; "The Ombudsman service 
Dziedzic, a sophomore, has go about finding the answer to a Dziedzic hopes to extend the fills a void in the Notre Dameworked throughout the past year particular prob_l~m! and w~o to service to the Saint Mary's community in terms of solvingin the public relations depart­see to get specific mformabon. campus soon. He feels that this is problems or answeringment of Student Government. Secondly, it "went to bat" for necessary in order to aid in the questions. I feel Paul's ex-
He feels that this experience students in helping them to cut merger of the two student perience and ability suit the jobhas given him a good view of how red tape and overcome obstacles governments and also to help any well." ·student government operates and that an individual student might how to approach the problems face. that might arise. Dziedzic hopes to continue the 
work that has been done thus far 

Nixon has Calley moved 
along these lines, particularly in
SMC proposal defeated 
the trouble-shooting department. 

SAN CLEMENTE, CALIF. "He just personally felt Lt.
He said that it is here that he sees 

by Ann Therese Darin eliminating any need for change. (UPI)-President Nixon per­Calley should not be put in the
"real potential". Besides these 

Saint Mary's Academic Affairs Sr. Finske said the change two facets of the service, sonally intervened Thursday in stockade or sent to Leavenworth Council defeated a senior would not have eliminated the Dziedzic sees the office as a the case of Lt. William Calley Jr. while the review is taking place." residency proposal yesterday possibility of graduating after means to look for and solve and ordered him removed from Ziegler confirmed that the 
White House has received anthat would have required seniors three and a half years, as did problems before they come up the Ft. Benning, Ga. stockade 
to complete their last year of nearly one-quarter of the present through a particular student's while a review of his life im­unprecedented deluge of com­study at SMC and file an ap­senior class. She added that it needs. prisonment sentence is under munications on the Calley con­plication with the registrar for a would not affect students with The previous head of the way. viction, virtually all of them degree. plans to graduate after three Ombudsman service, Dan Hyde, Calley will instead be confined seeking clemency for the young 
Proposed by Academic Dean years. to quarters during the review of lieutenant. 
The proposal would have the case. Ziegler, ·however, gave noSister Jeanne Finske, the 
requirement is already ap­prevented Seniors from endjng Atty. Kunstler He was sentenced Wednesday indication of whether the plicable to Notre Dame students. their studies at SMC after seven after being convicted of mur­President would personally 
Presently, any candidate for a semesters to take their final dering 22 Vietnamese civilians at review the Calley case. degree at SMC is expected to credits at another, usually My Lai. If the President presonally 
spend two years at the college cheaper institution. In the past speaks tonight A White House spokesman said reviewed the case, it probably and earn at least •60 hours of these transfer credits have been the President's order would stay would not be until the normal credit. accepted towards the completion Senior Class Fellow William in effect as the case goes through review procedure is completed. 
The proposal was defeated of one's requirements for a Kunstler will speak this evening the court of military review and Continued on page 8 because major changes in the diploma. Under the new at 8:30 p.m. in Stepan Center. on to the secretary of the Army. 
requirement, transfer credit The civil liberties lawyer has not It was not said whether it would 
·'··*'·
college bulletin of information 

on campus
cannot be made retroactive and would have been accepted only announced the topic of his lec­remain effective if the appeals next year's freshmen will from approved summer schools ture. procedure covered several years matriculate under the Notre and approved incomming Kunstler is best known for his and the case were taken to the 
today ... 
transfer students. defense of the Chicago Seven. He Supreme Court.
Dame requirement, thus 
has also defended other national 
Secretary Ronald Ziegler said
figures such as H. Rap Brown 
the President called Adm. 

2:00and 5:00 film-heritage
and Martin Luther King since he 
Thomas Moorer, chairman of the
began his work in civil liberties in 

of african art, audio
Joint Chiefs of Staff, and ordered 
1961. 
that Calley be removed from the 

visual center.
The Phi Beta Kappa graduate 
stockade in which he was put
of Yale and Columbia Law 
following his conviction on 

8:30 lecture-william d.
Columbia Law School arrived 
charges of murdering civilians at 

kunstler, senior class
last night and will spend the day 
My Lai.
visiting classes and prearranged 

fellow, stepan center.
"This is not a legal step. It is a 
informal gatherings. He will 
step taken at the President's 
leave for Texas tommorow. 
discretion," Ziegler said. 



Black gets counseling post 
Dr. Peter Grande, Notre Dame counselor while a student here Director of Admissions, an­two years ago, and after nounced yesterday the ap­graduating, received his Masters pointment of a black counselor, from the University of Chicago Mr. Don Wycliffe, a 1969 Notre grad school. He is currently Dame graduate from the College employed at the Houston Post, of Arts and Letters. and will assume his new duties on 

nd-smc 
Wycliffe was an admissions July 1. 

Mobility: Helpful or harmful? 


U.S. Transportation faces counter-revQluti~ll 
. a part of a broader and more underlymg These people, a maJority of Americans, all this, Dr. Chermgton believes, IS Will It by Tim Burke revolution occuring in the U.S. today. are willing to support increased costs to be possible to meet the· demands placed 
Focusing on what he called "the counter-Concerning transportation and mobility, insure greater safety and lower pollution upon transportation, within the restraints revolution in transportation", Dr. Paul W. Dr. Cherington divided the counter-levels, Dr. Cherington contended. of the counter-revolution?" In answer to Cherington examined our transportation revolutionaries into two basic groups. However, many of these social costs are this there are some hopeful and some problem and its solution in a lecture The first of these two groups consists of not able to be measured. The value of discouraging signs. delivered in the library auditorium those opposing the current system because clean air and water, as well as the other "We have only begun to draw on yesterday afternoon. they feel it has too much mobility. They aspects of a more pleasant environment, technology to solve these problems," Dr. 
The distinguished Harvard professor, believe the situation to be harmful, and cannot be calculated. On the other hand, Cherington explained. This nation might who has been associated with Secretary of prefer one in which goods are produced Dr. Chering explained, we cannot measure have to yield some of its mobility for social Transportation John Volpe's board of locally (hand-crafted, for example). This the costs of non-mobility either. A wider goods, but "the counter-revolutionaries advisors and Pan Am Airways, noted that would eliminate the need for massive selection of consumer goods, and an in-will have to give, too." about ten years ago the increasing transportation systems. crease in productive man-hours are both Dr. Cherington summed up the mobility of America was regarded as Dr. Cherington feels that this group consequences of increased mobility and challenge that lies ahead by saying that beneficial. There was a certain amount of attacks the new increase in mobility \transportation. "we must provide mobility at successful pride in the nation's transportation merely because of its social costs and for Dr. Cherington expressed his that the social levels." He expressed his belief that systems, both passenger and freight. the way it affects the American life-style. counter-revolution in transportaiton the wits, men, and money to do so are 
Since that time, however, a change in He estimated the group to be very small in favors the idea of public transportation currently available. attitude towards this new mobility has number, and added that "its ideas are not over that of private transportation, at least The new Railpax system,. the various become apparent to government officials, likely to make much progress in this day in urban areas. Many of the counter-transportation commissions, the Merchant as well as the transportation industry it-and age." revolutionaries believe that public tran-Marine, and the defeat of further funding self. This change in attitude is what The second main group is made up of sport systems should be free, or heavily for the SST were some of the topics comprises the "counter-revolution". those who attack the system on the supported by tax revenue. discussed in the question-and-answer 
Dr. Cherington believes that this trend is grounds of economic and social costs. The inevitable question that arises from period that followed Dr. Cherington's talk. 



QUINCY, -Robert Bange, 33, holds his daughter, Kimberly Sue, born in a car accident near here when she was ejected from her mother's womb. The mother, Geneva Bange, 30, died of head injuries. 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 5:15p.m. Sal Fr. Robert Griffin, c.s.c. 8: 30 a.m. Sun. Fr. Daniel Curtin, c.s.c. 9:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Edgar Whelan, c.s.c. 11:00 a.m. Sun. Fr. Aidan Kavanagh, o.s.b. 12:30 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, c.s.c.  "A cigar chewing cabbie" Screenwriting approaches reality by Dave McCarthy things that I know," he said. screenplays if you are writers." Tony Bill, Notre Dame Bill explained that realism is "It is really the most powerful graduate and film producer, what is happening in film making form of writing." spoke to an overflow crowd in the today. "The major change in our "Deadhead Miles" is a movie Library Lounge yesterday about time," he said, "is that films try about long haul truck drivers. "The New Screenwriting." It was to create and reflect the way Bill also told of a movie about the part of the Sophomore Literary things are." American Hoboes of the '20s that Festival. He asked the audience to shout Robert Redford wants to make. He began by asking people to out their favorite American Both films are indicative of a  

Second Conference of 1971 Marriage Institute 
PERSONAL GROWTH IN MARRIAGE 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Meagher Growth as experienced through the presence of children 
Sunday, April 4, 8:00pm, Library Auditorium 
describe their ideas of a sexy lady, a cab driver, a bartender and a newspaper editor. He received responses such as "a cigar chewing cabbie with a Brooklyn accent." 
''All of these are movie images," Bill said. "I have never met people like this, but I've seen a lot of them in the movies but not in my own life." 
"We measure our life by fie­tion," Bill said. He added that a turning point for him came when he saw the movie "Jules and 

~========~==::=:::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~Ji~m~.~"~'~'T~h~a~t~wasapi~ureabo~t 
WOULD YOU BELIEVE... 
Classical dancing from India Lion's dance from China Classical piano-guitar duet from Latin Hula dance from the South Seas Chicano dances from U.S.A. Brazilian Jazz by a Panamanian Virtuoso Magic Show by Houdini Reincarnate 

FREE 
America 

Come and see the world. Perfect idea for a date. 
International Arts Festival O'Laughlin Auditorium Saturday April 3 7: 30 pm 
jack Lemmon 
and Catherine Deneuve 
are

THE 



APRIL
Abo starring Peter Lawford 

FOOLS 
He has a wife. She has a husband, W lth so much In common, __ __ __ They just have to fall In love. 
Sat~rday: 7:30-9:15-11:00 ·sunday: 7:30-9;15-Kof C $1.00­
pictures since Bonnie and Clyde. trend in filmmaking today he About thirty movies were named. noted. "I feel that the movie I All but five had been produced would like to see is the movie from original screenplays Bill other people would like to see," noted. Bill added. 
"The best films made in this Bill graduated from Notre country are original screenplays Dame in 1964 and immediately and the majority are fitst landed a part in the movie "Come screenplays," Bill said. He cited Blow Your Horn." He has since the screenplay of his film forsaken acting and gone into "Deadhead Miles," starring Alan producing. Bill sold his house and ~kin. It was written by a twenty his car to produce his first film fiVe year old Harvard student. and is now one of the most sue­
"I submit to. y~u that ~ou cessful young produucers in should start thinkmg of domg Hollywood. 
U.S.S.R. losing its gnp 
Do you desire to live off-campus? Now taking reservations for Sept. I, 1,971. Nine month lease, accomodations for four or five to an apartment. 
lloh D•~~~e AYe. Apta.100 ltlodc N.D.Il. 
.........,.z,•• 
234Mt7 
by Greg Rowinski 

Proceeding from a description of the events that shaped the Decembrist Revolt in Poland and the behind-the-scenes activity of its enactment, Professor M. Kamil Dziewanowski presented his view of the trend in which Russia is losing its grip on its Eastern European Empire, last night at the Library Auditorium. 
The professor of Eastern European History at Boston University said he was "op­timistif'" that the USSR is holding an "Untenable, im­possible" role which would result 
eas wanted­
Do you want to contribute? 
Brainstorming -Sunday, April 4, 8 p.m., Downstairs Lewis Hall 
NEEDED-or -NOT NEEDED -A CENTER OF PRAYER? or Respond to Box 575 
Notre Dame. 

in the next generation or two, in the elimination of Soviet im­perialism. 
Russia only holds its position now, said Prof. Dziewanowski, because of three factors: the military might of the Warsaw Pact, the Council of Mutual Economic Assistance, and the ideological importance of the respective Communist parties. Of these, Dziewanowski added, only the first is reliable. 
Prof. Dziewanowski called the Empire "an absurdity" because it defied the standards of other colonial systems. Paradoxically, "less thickly-populated, less civilized, and less economically advanced Russia rules its fellows," the professor said. 
These fellows are repelled by the "intellectual ferment" in the USSR and are "fascinated" by the West, especially by the success of the Common Market. ''Truly,'' Prof. Dziewanowski summariezed, "a Western wind is prevailing." 
Already, some of the outside appearances of a breakup have 
surfaced,  according  to  the  
professor.  He  termed  the  Iron  
Continued on page 8  

~**************************~*****~ 
~ FABULOUS 40s FILM FESTIVAL ~ 
~ Friday ~ 7::to "God is my
* co-pi"Iot'' Raymond Massey Craig Stevens Richard Loo 
9:30 "Naughty Nineties" 
Abbott 
& 
Costello 
75' 
Saturday ~ 

1::1o "Bring on the ~ 
g~r• Is'' *lt Veronica Lake ~ Sonny Tufts lt Eddie Bracken * 
"C·anyon *

!l::IO 
* 
Passage'' *
* 
Susan Haywood Dana Andrews ** 
Ward Bond 
Lloyd Bridges 
'--"' ­

The wortds great smaft car. See, drive and buy at 
Bertles Volkswagen Inc. US 31 N. 


April 2, 1971 THE O&r£Rf1Bit Page 3 
Jones is questioned by police 

by Steve Kane 

Duane Jones, the man suspected of stealing $70 from an off-campus residence a few days ago, was questioned Wednesday ni~ht by police, according to Student Union Director Bill McGrath. 
Jones is the same man arrested and fined on Feb. 5 for pointing a gas gun at two Farley Hall 
..... ·~ 


r:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:R:6:G=E=ks=::b:P:flcJ~~I:=;====~======:=========~~;;::::I 
~~~~ Complete Spectacle Service 
:::: Glasses Duplicated
t Your Doctor's RX filled 

Largest selection of wires 
214 S. Michigan <next to State Theatre) 289-7809 
OPEN OPEN 
WEEK SUNDAY 
DAYS 12:45 
6:30 
HELD OVER •2nd BIG··wEEK 
KAMA. 
C~FEATURE 
"MINT SKIRT LOVE" 
SUT 
~E MOTION..PICTURE 
.KAMA SltTRi SEEN • 
·MW.IONS 01 MEN ANO WOMEN IN EUROPE AND ASIA IS NOW FREE TO BE SHOWN 



KAMASiiTRA~ 
I''WJlNT'tO SKQIW Y .,.,I!IOMI!THiNOI,.In oolo,. 
. ... &UFRir.&N•.TiiiiiTIONII "'""" •• 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions rna·-: be purchased for $8 from The Obser"er, Box 11, Notre Dame, Inc'. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

residents. He is also thought to be connected with thefts dating back as far as last Easter. 
McGrath said Jones, 22, was questioned after he had asked McGrath's roommate if he could stay the night in their ap­partment. Explaining that he was from California and was hit­chhiking to New York, Jones said he would like to sleep alone downstairs, so as not to bother anyone. 
McGrath returned from class and met Jones, who told him an expensive camera in the apart­ment would bring a large sum of money in California. McGrath recalled the name of Duane Jones from Wednesday's "Observer" account of the recent robbery off­campus. He left the room and called the police who soon arrived . 
Mter questioning Jones, the police asked him to accompany them to the police station. Jones refused, arguing that an arrest warrant hadn't been issued. The police then asked if Jones was still welcome to stay, to which McGrath negatively. Jones left unrestrained. 
ULTRA PANAVJSION•and TECHNICOLOR-
Re-releesed thru 
1!!1 ~ U!Uted Art1sts 
Phone 288-8488 For time & directions 

Before: 

During: 
Be in.formpd on many issues of our time COME AND HEAR: 
Rev. Richard Wumhrandt 
on his experiences in Eastern Europe 
at St. Joseph's High School Auditorium 
U.S. 31 & Angela South Bend Saturday, April 3rd, 1971 at 7:30pm 
Admission is FREE 


WANT $$$? 
A JOB FOR THIS SEMESTER AND NEXT 
IF YOU CAN TYPE WE WANT YOUR HANDS!!! 
Student Billing Service 
makes Sense! There's no reason why you shouldn't enjoy the convenience of making long distance calls from your dorm room phone and receiving a monthly bill for your calls ... and yours only! 
That service is available right here, right now. Dorm residents may pick up their Student Billing Cards at the Indiana Bell Business Office. Talk it up. 
@ 

Indiana Bell 
CALL OR LEAVE MESSAGE SCOTT BRALEY 7471,8661 


Page 4 
April 2, 1971 


OBSERVER BUSINESS STAFF 



Whelan condemns pushers 

111111~ I 
saturday, april 3 t 8::10 pm in the ace tickets: $2.00, $:1.50,$4.50 t on sale at the ACC 
t 
I 
FOR ADULTS 
ALSO

(gordon lightfoot will appear at 8:30) 
t 

' SACRILEGE
------------·----...-~-·-··-..·-·--·-·-' 
Needs people for Advertising Layout: 
by Tom Bornholdt 
Father Edgar Whelan, rector of Grace Hall, condemned the
*Paid position $$$ 
large scale pushing of drugs on campus in a lecture sponsored by
*Afternoon -Early Evening Work 
the Young Americans for Freedom last night. He feels that the University should expel those people from the community.
Call 7471, 8661. 
The speech was patterned after the speech he gave at a meeting

sk for Bill Bauerle or leave a message. 
of the SLC. 

c____________________________j Fr. Whelan emphasized the 
problem of the pusher saying, "Those trafficking in drugs are 

.:····················································. venturing in pure capitalism. It is 
•
•
•
.
. 
• 
• 

buy a book•••

• 
meet a friend 
Whether it's a book you need or a book you want, chances are we've got it. Textbooks. Mountains of paperbacks...all the new titles. Plus this-when you shop at your College Store, you're bound to meet up with

• 
a classmate or two, which makes buying a book here just a little friendlier. 
THE HAMMES 

•
. 
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE

•
. 
················································4·-~= on the stoop," Gordone said. Kids 
play stickball in the str~et and 't·---s;~e:;u::~::c~:~·-·-··---·.. ---·---------~ commission and ace ' ~ present: ~i:E1te!::E-t 
! Co=-:1so:rLI 
i ' 
' t
t 





I I :t 
• capitalism, making their profit
•
• by any means possible."
.
. He described several sizable
•
• shipments of drugs that had come 
•
. to Notre Dame, including
•
. mescaline and a pound of hash . •• Fr. Whelan described the funds
• involved in this operation as totalling over $5,000. He felt that these pushers were exploiting the psychological well-being of students. 
Fr. Whelan also expressed dissatisfaction at what he felt was the acceptance of the drug scene at Notre Dame. He in­

• 
cluded "pot" in his list of dangerous drugs because of the experiences he has had with people involved with it. He said that some users of marijuana actually ended "contemplating their navel." 
"I am not at all pleased with

•
. 
the University's response", he

• 
said. Fr. Whelan wondered seriously ifthedeath of a student was needed to shock the University into responding to the 

Gordone recites as SLF closes 
Playwright Charles Gordone read selections of his works in­cluding his Pulitzer Prize win­ning play "No Place to le Somebody" at the final activity of the 1971 Sophomore Literary Festival in Washington Hall 
Gordone's works were a mixture of the good and bad times experienced by black
•

. 
ghetto residents. Hesitating to

. 
give the titles of his work, the
•

. 
author described tenement living 
•

• at its best in one piece . A good tenement has people
•

• "standing in the halls playing
. 
their transistor radios and sitting people say hello to the "super" even when they don't want something done to improve their home. 

He contrasted that with a renovated tenament with "air conditioning and all that." The new breed of people never talked to the super unless they wanted something done, and they rarely did. They all stayed behind locked doors and "did things there they were ashamed to do in front of people." 
The old black super of the building fiddled with the peepholes on the door so he could observe the people. All sorts of perversions, including a man dressing in women's clothes and another having women with spiked heels walk across his bare 
chest, were observed by the old 
IT ONLY TAKES A FEW MORE MINUTES TO GET TO ••. 
SIMERI'S 
Cornt"r of Hill and MadiHm 
ALL NewiJ Remodelled 
For Your Combt and EnjoJmMt ·FINE FOOD ·COZY ATMOSPHERE llAM to 11 PM 64 oz pitcher of beer $1.47 
We've Added the lelt Plz~ In Town to Our Menuf Try u. 
prootem of drugs on campus. there are many juniors and Throughout the speech, he said seniors who have given up drugs that he did not favor the ex­but they have failed to advise pulsion of drug users, but that the freshmen and sophomores of University should recognize the their danger. He felt the drug problem and try to help these problem was especially bad people. among Notre Dame sophomores. 
Fr. Whelan thought there was a The lecture was followed by a 

four or five year cycle involved meeting of the Y AF, which with the drug problem at various 
di~cussed another upcoming
colleges. He felt that the cycle dnve to send supplies to soldiers 
was already over at West Coast in Vietnam. Also discussed was 
schools and has been moving plans for Y AF day to be held this 
eastward. 
spring at which the Y AF plans to 
He said that part of the distribute information and 

·problem at Notre Dame is that promote its cause. 
Mudd Due for Shave 
GILLINGHAM, England (UPI)-The shaving c~ampion of the world jogged up the Canterbury Road, d~d. 50 pu~hups and waggled a straight edge razor viciOusly m the general direction of his American challenger Wednesday. 
"I shall best this Guy A. Mudd of Kirkwood Missouri. I shall keep the crown for England," said Gerry Harl~y, 35, barber of Gillingham. 
The Englishman shaved 80 faces in an hour Dec 5 T~e Guinness Book of Records crowned him. Mudd of Missouri challenged. Harley accepted, vowing to ~have 120 men in an hour. 
Harley's hour Thursday was to start at 12:30 p.m. 5:_30 a.m. CST with Mudd competing thereafter in Kirkwood. 
."Mu~t be n~~ble, must _be quick, .. said Harley, doing his ~ally trammg exercises before his shaving in a special room at "The Plough," thz local pub. "When one uses a straight edge--and one should use none else-­it is s~e~d with accuracy or death,'' Harley said . 
A vi~~tor remar~ed Mudd was said to use a safety razor. The Amencan savage? The safety razor is for the untutored, the amatuer," Harley said. 
man. 
Another poem reflected on a happy tribe of Indians that was full of strong, happy men, women 
and children. Their chief also was happy because, like his people, he smoked a special type of "grass in his pipe." · 
Gordone, a native of Elkhart, drew his loudest response from the audience with a selection from his award winning play. The theme of the speech was that th­ere is more to being a black than meets the eye. Among the things it means to black are: "hugging a big mama" and having her smell like "hot biscuits and black eyed peas"; it means "making you mad most of the time"; it means "inventing a new dance step" and being black means saying mother ------and meaning it." 
April 2, 1971 
dr. willis nutting 
martin luther king 

Dr. King spoke here at the Stepan Center several years ago. That was the only time I ever saw him or heard him. There was a fairly wide spread opinion then that it was useless to pass laws concerning race relations, because the bettering of race relations depended on an increase of love, and you can't legislate love. Dr. King set that opinion right in one sentence. "The law can't make you love me", he said, "But the law might prevent you from lynching me, and from my point of view that is rather important." I consider that statement as a major enlightenment in my own thinking, and I am grateful to him for making it. 
This thinking of mine has had a history somewhat different from the thinking of most Americans. In the small town in Iowa where I was raised I was not conscious of any color line at all. (I know now that there was one, but I did not see it then.)We boys practised fierce and unmerciful segregation, but color had nothing to do with it. We would refuse to admit into our company any boy with an easte:rn accent. 
From this environment, when I was eighteen, I was rather suddenly tran­sferred to the West Indies, and for six years my ideas of race were developed by what happened to me in the Island of Antigua. The Rev. C.M. Howell was the man I worked for some of the time. He was one of the best persons I have ever known. Mr. Athill, the magistrate, came to see me every day when I was sick. Mr. Hope-Ross, who owned the big store, was the most level headed man around. Father Vanier seemed to me to be the most in­telligent man on the island. And Arthur Cranstoun was my very dear friend. 
All these men were black. But I didn't think of them as black. I thought of them as men. After I had known them, how could I possibly think of myself, because of my whiteness or for any other reason, as being superior to them'? The very suggestion was assinine. And I don't believe that these men thought of them­selves as black or of me as white. We were all people together, and the terms denoting color were purely descriptive with no note of inferiority in any of them. 
Now back to the American scene. Mr. McClendon operated a bulldozer. He was black. He was doing some work for my sister in Florida and I was visiting there. A good many times a day he would come and ask me if he was doing the job right. Since I knew nothing whatever about the job I told him to go ahead and do what seemed best to him, but he wouldn't accept that. I had to give him my approval every so often. And I began to realize that the only way a black man could survive in Florida was to get the white man's stamp of ap­proval on his every action. Mr. Smith was a black man here in South Bend. I had something for him but I had to be away 
rick smith 
from home. I told him that I would leave the door unlocked and that he sould go in and get it. He wouldn't do it. He wouldn't go into a white man's house unless the white man was there. And I began to realize that a black man had to live his life very carefully. He would be blamed if anything disappeared. He would be suspected if he wasn't where he was supposed to be, even if nothing disap­peared. In this country where I could be care free, he had to be careful. But I had lived in a country where a black man could be care free too. The fact that the black man in this country always had to be careful had put a mark on the black man, a mark that I did not see in black men in Antigua. 
We can return now to Martin Luther King. It seems to me that, whatever he accomplished by his own efforts, he was the symbol of the beginning of the removal of the mark from the black man. As a result of what he did in the sit-ins throughout the country, the black people of South Bend began walking taller. They were tak;ng back the dignity that belonged to them as men. That was a glorious thing to see. 
I know that I am supposed to stop here. I am supposed to say that Dr. King's non­violent methods were praise-worthy, but that the later violence of some of the black leaders was deplora\>le and only harmed the cause. I'm not going to say this because I'm not sure. They tell the story of the man who was very good at training mules. He claimed that to train a mule you must treat him kindly and reason with him. Then someone watched him begin on a mule. He grabbed a chunk of cordwood and walloped him over the head. When the observer remarked that that wasn't treating the mule with kindness the man replied that the blow on the head was just to attract his attention so that the kindness and the reasoning could begin. It may be that the determining majority of white men are so confident in their rightness that they have to receive a rough blow before 
they begin to think rationally. 
Violence is of course a very dangerous thing. It can easily get out of hand. It often backfires. It increases hatreds in many quarters. But sometimes it >eems that it is the only thing that attracts the attention of the great numbers of complacent people who don't consider themselves directly implicated in a problem. And in a country like ours, where votes count, it may be the only thing to bring the silent majority to the realization that a minority suffers a great injustice. Dr. King has appealed to the conscience of those of us who have a conscience that operates in matters of race. Perhaps it needs somebody to raise hell to make the people without an operating conscience to realize that there is at least a problem. 
unwinding 

Originally, this page was gomg to have four articles, two written by famous Notre Dame people, two by some St. Mary's greats. Two would be by blacks and two by whites. Two by students, two by professors. Two by males, two by females. All geometrically even and perfect. Integrated and equal. Something the great King would have been very proud of, I suppose. 
In talking about the project with dif­ferent people, some very amorphous, intangible obstacle began to rear its head. In thinking back, it is somewhat in­credible, and significant, to me how consistently people would say that they would like to contribute an article, but for some reason, they were afraid that their vas1ve and destructive diseases plaguing our culture-racism. But then, I don't know. Certainly racism plays a part in the problem. Maybe we're afraid to look seriously at the man. The man who so desperately tried to get us to look around, to open our eyes and ears, before our civilization irretrievably took its place among the "great" civilizations of the distant past. Before our civilization destroyed itself. 
In a schizoid culture, love and violence become, at their core, inseparable. Death is feigned to support existence. Freedom consists in being inaccesible. 
I don't know if any of this makes sense. Hard to get past the bullshit. He had a vision of a human world and it seems I can 
recollections and memories and thoughts ~nlv write depressing things about him. 
about the man would amount to so much crap, for want of a better word. 
And I could empathize with them, because I knew that, again for some vague reason, I could not get past the shallow, surface stuff like, "we're all responsible, we all should follow his example and love and not hate, he was a saint, we're all responsible." Which I can't see as con­tributing anything at all to the people of this community. 
I sort of theorize that this inability to get deeply into the meaning behind the life and death of Martin Luther King, the inability to get my head together, is due to the fact that I'm up against one of the most per-
My high school English teacher gave me a C once on a paper for finishing it with a quote. I'~ like to end this with a thank you for reading this and with the following from Phil Ochs' "Crucifixion.": The eyes ofthe rebel have been branded by the blind To the safety of sterility the threat has been refined The child was created to the slaughter house he's led So good to be alive when the eulogies are read 
The climax of emotion the worship of the dead 
As the cycle of sacrifice unwinds 
If any of you are around when I have to meet my day, I don't want a long funeral. And U you get somebody to deliver the eulogy, tell them not to talk too long . . . Tell them not to mention that I have a Nobel Prize, that isn't important. Tell 
them not to mention that I have three or four hundred other awards, that's not important. Tell them not to mention where I went to school. I'd like to mention that day, that ... "Martin Luther King, Jr., tried to give his life serving others." I'd like for somebody to say that day, that ... "Martin Luther King, Jr., tried to love somebody." I want you to say that day, that ... "I tried to be right on the war .guestion." I want you to say, on that day, that ... "I did try to feed the hungry." And I want you to be able to say that day, that ... "I did try, in my life, to clothe those who were naked." I want you to say, on that day, that..."l did try, in my life, to visit those who were in prison." I want you to say that ... "I tried to love and serve humanity." 
a king in a country of 
no kings with a dream in a country of 
no dreams 
Yes, if you want to say that I was a drum major, say that I was a drum major for justice; say that I was a drum major for peace; I was a drum major for righteousness. And all of the other shallow things will not matter.. I won't have any money to leave behind. I won't have the fine and luxurious things of IUe to leave behind. But I just want to leave a com­mitted life behind. And that's all I want to say ... UI can help somebody as I pass along, U I can cheer somebody with a word or a song, if I can show somebody he's travelling wrong, then my living will not be in vain. If I can do my duty as a Christian ought, if I can bring salvation to a world once wrought, if I can spread the message as the master taught, then my living will not be in vain. 
From Martin Luther King, Jr.'s sermon preached at Ebenezer Baptist Church on February 4, 1968. Photos are from William 
R. Miller's book Martin Luther King, Jr. 
April 2, 1971

Page 6 THE OBSERIJM 
ND-SMC cabinets work closely 
plans yesterday for student
Mlil in or come by Observer office. by Maria Gallagher government during the merging 
Projected plans for the coming process. student government year are still Student government will be one 1-------------r---------------4indefinite, but full of promise, of the first areas to combine. according to Missy Underman, VVith off-campus and academic 
far injOrrmtfon call 7471. 
SERVICES College Students with car student body vice president. commissions already joined last 

Crypt-New Hours 

needed to demonstrate 
Student Body Presidents John year and the Student Services 
12:30--4:00 

technicolor photo and 
Barkett and Kathy Barlow, along Organizations and Student 
Now on Stock 
movie equipment 

with Missy Underman, revealed Unions this year, complete
Hendrix-Cry of Love-$3.60 

guaranteed $100 a week ­
Cat Stevens-Ten for Tillerman 

top men make $200 working
--$3.10 
The Pilgrimagec Bavgo
For Sale -12 string folk

evenings 5-9. Call
Elton John-
Bay, Osceola, Indiana,
guitar-excell. cond. -best

technicolor sales office 289­
Tumbleweed Connection $3.1 e 
Sunday, April 4. -For
offer -Pat 8895
3662 for appointment reservations contact: B.VV.
Mountain-Nantucket Sleighride 
B.B. G.O. C.S. B.S.

'68 Fiat 124 Spider -mags VVorld Junior Fencing Meet 
We need volunteers for 
-AM FM Radio -excell. to be held April 9, 10, 11, 12 
cond. -$1995 -272-6815 Spend the summer in<Easter Vacation) in the
Storage space available 
EUROPE. Charter jets to
during summer. Call Tom,· 

ACC. If interested call 3205 
Lost -one bright orange star
282-2250. 
London, Amsterdam and
or 3207 
formerly affixed to a green 
Paris. More than 40 dates 
and white baseball cap.
Pizza Hut No. 2 (2037 
available. IN-
Call B. MeG. 7757. 

Edison) -Help VVanted ­
TERNATIONAL STUDENTS VVill exchange house in 
Female-21 and over. 
ACADEMIQUE SOCIETY.
LOST
San Antonio, Texas for Also eligible for manyMen of all trades to North 

Lost -green card case with I D 
house or apartment in ND other benefits (railroadSlope, Alaska and the 

& meal card at St. Mary's.
area. June, July, August or passes, hotel discounts,
Call Joe, 6924. Reward.

Yukon -around $2800 aany part thereof. Four 
etc.) For information call bedrooms, 2 baths, 
month. For complete in­Frank 233-8142.
Lost Friday-pair of dark

formation write to Job
Beautiful residential 
brown sunglasses '(brown
district. Mrs. Anna Norton, HOUSINGResearch, P.O. .ijox 161, 

lens) on South Quad near
743 Susie Court, San An­
r-aculty member wants to rent

Stn. A, Toronto, Ont. ­
Dillon. Reward. Call 1654 
three -or four -bedroom
tonio, Texas 70216 Enclose $3.00 to cover cost 

unfurnished house. Oc­
High school class ring ­
cupancy in late August.
VVanted to Rent House for 
Call Mrs. Dooley at 4756
St. Patrick's H.S.,
Fall-Spring 1971-72. Single 
(office) or 233-3655 (home).
Newburgh, N.Y., 1967 ­
Woman SMC Faculty. Call RIDES 
Reward -Call Chris 1536
~nnC!_ark__4_503. 
FOR RENT this summer Nice
FOUND

Fort Lauderdale-RideFor rent over summer: Four 
5-room (2-bedroom) house. 
Call: Ted or Paul 283-1588
Found: pocket watch-South

needed for John -1527 andbedroom house, air­
Dining Hall-March 25-Call garage, Good Location. Call 
Craig -8780 Can leave
conditioning, two-car 
7798 or 282-1319.
Monday A~ril 5. 
Apartment for rent during 
summer months. Fur­
1075 
TRAVEL 
nished, carpeted, freshlY· painted, air-conditioned; has bedroom, kitchen, 
Home for summer rental 
Cruise to Bahama
-2 bdrm on large wooded 
living room, bathroom with

I need ride to Ft. 
Islands for Easter
lot near campus -furnished 
shower, small hall, and two

Lauderdale April 5 or 6 ­
closets. Call Tom 282-2250.
Vacation-$100 for 4 days­
-air conditioned -garage ­Mike 8729 
Includes scuba diving,
car included in rental to PEANUTS PERSONAl

spearfishing, nights in port 8652 
responsible party -Call 234­
at VVest End and Freeport,
FOR SALE 
To: Dave Batow 
1004 Grace Tower 
Phone 1779 
meals and sleeping ac­
comodations-Ages 18-23­
WANTED 
Since you put that wierd ad in
For more information 
the Observer in the first
write: Vic Horrell, P.O. 
place, we've transferred all
Greeting card ideas 
business to you.

'66 Chev. Impala-2 dr. 
Box 892, Cocoa Beach,
wanted-$10 each for college 
Ern, Moose, Ace
Florida, 32931.

hardtop-283 V8 automatic
oriented situations­

power steering,air. cheapImportant you enclose self­
Here's to Patty and Steve who

$750-call 289-3748 after 5 
VVant to take a trip to 
became engaged on April
addressed stamped return p.m. 
Fool's Eve. They are both
EUROPE this summer?
envelope-Joy Card Co.-6th 
glad and happy it has been
Fly in a jet chartered by
Floor-18 VVest 18th St.-NYC 
approved by Patty's
the NATIONAL UNION OF 
Pappy. Three cheers for
10011 
STUDENTS and SAVE! 

Patty and Steve. For Sale 
Oshkosh, Hinsdale, and
Approx. 60 dates available
llfl...P VVANTED 
Winston -Salem. 

'63 Falcon -Cheap. Tim 233­
for round trips betw. 
4060.
Newly formed WaterbeO 

London & N.Y. this sum­Company wants campus 
Happy Birthday, Pig. representatives for hottest King size water mattress 
mer for $245. From London 
Love.
connect to any of 50 
LeMans Sty

selling item in states. $39 ppd. Finest quality. 
European cities at discount Good commissions for a 
Guaranteed. Manufacturer 
fares. For example:few hours work per week seeks local distributor. 
London-Paris $12.60, 
Tigress,

that can be fitted easily to Contact Steve Boone, In­
London-Amsterdam $12.00, 
my hand isn't worthy of your 

your schedule. dustrial Fabrics, Inc., 735 
response. Pass. To You.
Paris-Zurich ·$15.00, 
-The broke bridge.

VVrite: South Fidalgo Street, 
Zurich-Rome $20.00. Many

Lightrays Designs, Inc. Seattle VVashington, 98108 
other benefits (travel 
PARTY 
Lovesleep VVaterbeds -206--763-8911 
passes, hotel discounts, 
Cheerleading and Leprachaun
Division 
Tryouts:
etc.) Also available. For 
TGIO Party <Thank God its
3727 VValnut Street 

Sale or trade-'68 Ford 
info or application call Tom 
over) Sat. 9:00 (or after
Philadelphia, Pa. 19104 

Torino-GT-4 sp-bucket 
282-2250 5-10 Mon.-Fri. 
concert) Basement of B-P 
or Call: seats, good condition, $1525 

--Please Come ­
(215) 349-9330 

or offer, call 283-7637 
about 6 or after 11
Interesting, fun job. Prefer business or 

Attention-anyone using 
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING RATES
graduate student but en­

cash at the South Paythusiasm main 
Cafe-Save Money-$10requirement. Able to work 
worth of food coupons only on your own for in­
$6---call 1893 ternational student travel 

Words 1 day 2 days 3 days 4 days 1 week 
VVatermattresses for saleorganization. Represen­
0-10 .50 .75 1.00 1.15 1.25
tatives eligible for free 

-to obtain info or place trips to Europe, Caribbean, 
orders call Tom at 282-2250 
11-15 .60 1.00 1.35 1.75 2.15
Mexico the year round-plus 

from 5-10 pm Monday­good commissions. 
Friday 

16-20 .70 1.15 1.70 2.40 2.80
VVrite: Hot News flash -New

University Student 

21-25 .85 1.35 2.00 2.90 3.45
Company bornServices VANGUARD LEATHER

Students Overseas 

26-30 1.00 1.60 2.35 3.40 4.10
GOODS, INC.-823 FlannerDivision Hall 283-1176 -Specializing3733 Walnut St. 
31-35 1.20 1.90 2.80 3.85 4.70
in: watchbands, wrist­
Philadelphia, Pa. 19104 

bands, belts, wallets, 
36-40 1.35 2.10 '1.10 4.25 5.10
or Call: headbands, hdr barrettes,

(215) 349-9330 

and anything else made of 
41-45 1.55 2.30 3.30 4.50 5.50 
leather -Owned, operated by Milt Jones and VVayne 
46-50 1.75 2.50 3.50 4.75 6.00 
Hall amalgamation is not far off and is hoped to be accomplished by January, 1972. 

The two cabinets will work on a cooperative basis this year, holding separate weekly meetings and combined monthly meetings. Ajoint hall president's Council should be in effect soon, but plans for a joint constitution are still in the formulative stage. 
Miss Barlow and Miss Un­derman said SMC will probably adopt many of the programs now in effect at Notre Dame, such as an individual judicial system for each hall rather than one for the entire campus, as currently exists for SMC. 
There are also a number of 
administrative difficulties to be 
resolved. 

Missy Underman 
The two student governments are currently working as closely as possible. Miss Underman stressed the importance of keeping the communication lines open on both campuses. She and Miss Barlow view the coming year with enthusiasm, and although many plans are long­range, they hope to accomplish much during their term in office. 
The problems facing the merger will soon be turned over the Co;Ed Commission, whose chief purpose is to smooth out the 

incidentals  and  work  on  such  
long-range  projects  as  a  new  
constitution.  

War talk in Runner 
A panel discussion, with Carl Estabrook, Edward Goerner, and Bernard Norling, will discuss, "VVhat, if anything, should students and citizens do about the war?" The discussion will be held Sunday night at 8:00 p.m. in Flanner pit. The discussion will include short statements by the three faculty, and a general discussion between students and faculty. The panel is sponsored by the Program for Non-violence. 
African art lecture 
given by Wardell 
by Gary Rufo 
The Art Gallery Wednesday sponsored a lecture on "African Art" given by Allen VVardell, curator of primitive arts at Art Institute of Chicago. 
The lecture was comprised of a basic introduction of African Art and the inspection and ex­planation of the African sculpture collection, "Tara", owned by Mr. and Mrs. J. VV. Gillon of New York. This collection is said to represent every tribe in Africa. 
VVardell started his talk by saying that primitive art has influence much of the modern art of the 20th century. "African Art," he added, "is art in the traditional sense. It was an in­tegral part of African society." 
The collection exhibited forms of "folk art." The display was broken down into six basic categories each representing a specific theme of African society. The six are: Rider's and their Mounts; VVitchcraft, Fetishism, Increase; Emblems, Symbols, Insignias; Home and VVork; Ancestors and Guardians and Masks and addresses. 

-------~--------~---------~--------~~--~---------~---------­
-


Irish nine has potential 

with a bat, has been especially disappointing for those who likeThe Irish Eye by Vic Dorr impressive behind the plate this to see power hitting and lots of it. Observer Sportswriter Spring, and will add strength to "We're not going to have a 
the already firm ND defense. whole lot of power this year,"
Jake Kline has been the head 
When Roemer needs to be rested admits Kline. "Oh, Krill (who has 
coach of the Notre Dame baseball 
from his catching chores, he will accounted for ND's only home
team for 38 years, and during this 
Synonomous with the coming of April and Spring (at least I hope probably be spelled by Dan run so far) and Horan may hit the 
time he has coached a fair
Spring is on the way) is the opening of the major league baseball long ball occasionally, but mostly 
Phelps, a 5-10 junior.
number of players who rated as
season. And. for better or worse. svnonomous with the start of we won't be a power-hitting
outstanding professional "There are a lot of jobs still
baseball season is the Observer sports department's baseball picks team. We have a lot of line-drive 
prospects. Several of these have open in the infield," says Kline,
column. hitters this year, and I think
made it to the major leagues--the "and again, I'm not sure just who 
Each division posed a special problem as I tried to figure out the you'll find them hitting for
most recent being Atlanta's Ron is going to be where when we
best possible forecast. The Orioles were an easy choice for the top spot average more
Reed-and several others are open up next week." The com­than anything 
in the AL East but placing the other five teams in their order of finish else."
very close to breaking into the big petition has been most intense at 
was a real chore. In the AL West I was faced with the difficulty of The chances are good, too, that 
time. Some of the most promising second base, where Bill Schoen
trying to decide whether or not the Angels, after all their winter Kline's will
players in the Atlanta Braves' (who hit .429 on the road trip) and squad play a 
wheeling and dealing had put together a club that could catch the deliberate style of baseball.
farm system, for example, are Tony Zappia (.364) are being
Twins, who are beset by pitching headaches. There is not an abundance of
graduates of Notre Dame, and of given equal consideration. Joe
Choosing the winner in the NL East reminded me of the pea and speed-Dick Nussbaum, Tom
Jake Kline's baseball program. LaRocca (.242) will most likely
shell game. I finally decided that the Pirates had the pennant pea McGraw, and Tom O'Connor are
be given the nod to start at first
hidden under their shell and that the Cubs and Mets would come up But Kline has also had years some notable exceptions--and
base, and Phil Krill (.257) will
where there are no phenoms to
empty. this would seem to indicate that
probably open the season at
rely on, and regardless, his
This may surprise some people, especially Cincinnati fans, but I the stolen base and the sacrifice
shortstop. Tom O'Connor (.273)
think that every club in the NL West, except San Diego, could win the teams have continued to play will not be overly important to
and Rob Reschan (.444) have
steady, sound baseball. It would
championship if they could put everything together, especially Los the Irish attack.
both seen plenty of action at third
appear that 1971, for the Notre
Angeles. "As far as weaknesses
base, and either of them could
Dame baseball team, is going to
Here's the way the divisional races shape up in my estimation: go,"says the ND coach, "we have 
start against Western Michigan.
be this sort of season.
AL East-Baltimore, Boston, New York, Detroit, Cleveland, one big one, and that's leaving
"I don't know exactly what to The situation in the Irish
Washington. men on base. I've said it before,
think about this team,"said outfield, on the other hand, seems
With great pitching, a superlative infield, and talent in abundance in but we left 93 men on during our
Kline, as he watched his squad to be fairly secure. Senior Chuck 
the outfield it should be another happy season for the Birds. No one road trip, and some clutch hitting 
run through a practice game. Horan, who is the team's captain,
should come close to this club. could have turned around a
"I've been watching them since is assured of a starting berth in
The Red Sow have their best defensive lineup in years and still pack couple of close ball games."
we started practice, and I still left field. Tom McGraw (.242)
plenty of punch at the plate. Their outfield is excellent and the recent If South Bend's weather per­
can't make up my mind." Even should start in center field, and
acquisition of Duane Josephson strengthened a weak catching crew. If mits the team a few more outdoor 
as he was finishing his thought, freshman Pete Schmidt (.233)
the Red Sox get some pitching they could be right up there-in second workouts before the season 
Kline's eyes were wandering out who began the season at second
place. _ begins, and if the Irish hitting
towards the pitcher's mound, base but was soon switched to
The Yanks have good pitching and one of the best managers in improves--as Kline is certain that 
where left-bander was
baseball but the Bronx Bombers still haven't got all the material they a tall right field, will probably round it will-then this "starless" Notre
warming up. "Now," he said, out the Notre Dame defense. 
need to regain supremacy in the AL. Dame ball club may well be in for 
"that boy out there is good. I just 
The Detroit Tigers look like the best of the rest. They have a The '71 Irish may be somewhat a very bright season.
hope he'll be able to live up to his 
stronger infield this year since acquiring Ed Brinkman and Aurelio potential."
Rodriguez from the Senators. Along with Kaline, McAuliffe, Cash, 
Potential, apparently, is what
Stanley, Northrup, Freehan and Horton the Tigers look solid 
the fortunes of this year's
everywhere but on the mound. Lack of pitching is going to cost the 
baseball team will hinge upon.
Bengals a place in the first division. 
The potential is there, and if it is 
The Cleveland Indians don't have much besides Sam McDowell, Ray 
properly developed, the squad
Fosse, Ray Foster and Ken Harrelson but the Tribe has enough to 
may well find itself in position to
finish ahead of the Senators who should fall back into the cellar-a spot 
better last year's 17-14 record.
not unfamiliar to Washington ballclubs. 
"Our pitching will probably be 
AL West-Minnesota, California, Oakland, Kansas City, Chicago, 
one of our biggest strengths,"
Milwaukee. 
said Kline. "If we can get them
Some people are critical of the Twins pitching but Minnesota had the 
(the pitchers) into shape, and can 
no. 2 staff in the league last year and with Bert Blyleven around for a 
get a few breaks in the weather, 
full season the mound corps should be adequate. Hitters like Oliva, 
then I think we'll be okay." With
Killebrew, Tovar, Carew, and Reese often make up for hurler's 
the opening of the Irish home
shortcomings. 
season less than a week away,
The Angels have put together one of the best outfields in the AL with 
Kline is unsure as to who will
Johnson, Tony Conigliaro, and Berry, and their infield is solid too. It's 
start for him against Western
the Seraphs' pitching that will keep them behind the Twins in the 
Michigan on April 8th. But he
major leagues' weakest division. 
does have a good idea as to who
Oakland has Jackson, Odon, Hunter, Sando, Monday, Campaneris, 
will be in the starting retation.
and a capable manager (as long as he's around) in Dick Williams. But 
Ron Schimitz (whose record
if the A's do manage to stay close until the late stages of the race, I'm 
stands at 1-1 after the Spring
sure that Charlie Finely will figure out some way to lose title. 
Trip), Jim Noe 0-0), Mike
Kansas City should cop fourth place while Chicago and Milwaukee Notre Dame's "Faculty Among the stalwarts of the
Riddell (1-1}, and Rich Eich (0-1)
will be fifth and sixth. Flyers" hockey team, a sextet undefeated faculty team are 
are virtually assured of places in
NL East-Pittsburgh, Chicago, New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis, comprised chiefly of Notre Dame professors Dick Otter, Pat Ryan,
the rotation, and Tom Menie will 
and Montreal. faculty members and graduate and Ray Brach, Bob Lepaska,
also be used as a starter if the
The Bucs have the power and if their pitchers stay healthy Pirate students, will oppose a similar Bzil O'Hagen, vice-president of 
arm trouble whjch has plagued
fans should be able to cheer their team to its second straight division club from the U. of Detroit in a WNDU, Moffat and Hay,
him clears up before the season
title. benefit game for muscular The club has been playing
begins. Kline is looking hoepfully 
The Cubs only weak spot seems to be the bull pen and, on paper, they dystrophy this Sayurday night in every Tuesday and Thursday
toward two freshmen--Kevin
look like the strongest club in the league. Chicago has had their the ACC. Faceoff time is set for 7 during the lunch hour since
Fanning and Mark Pittman-and
chances the last two years though and haven't come through. This p.m. October. Although their style of
a sophomore Ed Hrabcsak (2-Q)
season isn't going to be any different. The Detroit icei:s will be out to play may not be on a par with
to round out his mound staff.
Koosman and Gentry will have to bounce back to compliment revenge a 7-4 home ice thrashing that of the Boston Bruins they
"As far as relief pitchers go,
Seaver as they did in '69 or the Mets may have a real battle for third the Notre Dame team handed display a great deal of en­
we'll just have to see how things
place. The Mets defense is solid but the Amazins' could use some of­them three weeks ago. Graduate thusiasm on the ice.
come out. No one has had much
fensive punch. students Fenton Hay and Marsh Admission to Saturday's game
work, but if I find a boy with real 
The Phillies are a young, improving team and should provide good good control, then I'll probably Moffat scored two goals apiece in will be $1 and all the proceeds will entertainment for any fans that come out to watch them. The Phillies leading the "Flyers" to victory in be noted donated to the muscular 
use him in relief."
look like a fourth place team. their only game of this season. dystrophy campaign. 
The other half of the Irish
Gibson, Torre, and Brock can't carry St. Louis any higher than fifth. 
battery will be sophomore Bob 
The Cardinals have fallen a long way in a couple of years. 
Roemer. Roemer, while capable 
N etters and trackmen busy 
The Expos don't have a bad team, it's just that everyone else in their division is better. C'est Ia vie. NL West-Los Angeles, Cincinnati, San Francisco, Houston, Atlanta, Notre Dame, Ind. -Notre open their outdoor campaign at
Keglers split 
San Diego. Dame's tennis and track teams the Kentucky Relays Friday and 
The Dodgers have a number of good players who can play a number will be active this weekend while Saturday. The Lexington meet is of positions and Walter Alston is sure to get the maximum per­The newly formed Notre Dame the baseball and golf squads will the first major outdoor relayformance out of the material at hand. With the addition of Richie bowling team split their first two wait another week before meet of the spring for collegate Allen, that material looks like enough to upset Cincinnati for the NL matches of the year last resuming action. teams. West crown. Osteen, Singer, Vance, Sutton and a couple of good weekend, bowing to Purdue but The Irish netters, now 7-5 Notre Dame's baseball team chuckers from the farm won't make the L.A. pitching staff like it was defeating Valparaiso. overall after finishing second in returned from a lQ-game spring in the days of Loufax and Drysdale but it'll be good enough. The Boilermakers bested the the Irish Indoor Invitational last trip with a 5-5 record. The Irish 
Cincinnati still looks like the class of the league on paper but I've got Irish 3519 to 3299 in a 4 game, no weekend, will entertain DePauw baseballers lost their first four the feeling they won't repeat. Their pitching last year was great but handicap match on Saturday but of Greencastle, Ind. Friday af­starts, then won four straightwill be tough to duplicate. The Riverfront ball yard doesn't have the the Notre Dame keglers evened ternoon. before splitting a series with friendly confines that Crosley Field did and Redleg power will suffer their record on Sunday by top­Notre Dame's tennis team Murray, Ky. State. accordingly. Their defense isn't top notch and the loss of Bobby Tolan ping Valpo 2643 to 2589 in a 3 recorded a total of 23 points to Jake Kline's team will en­is a big blow. All their publicity, fat paychecks and last year's romp to game match bowled at the 
finish one point behind Michigan tertain always poweful Western 
the title may have made Cincy's Reds a·bit too complacent to be Chippewa Lanes in South Bend. and one ahead of Indiana. All Michigan on Thursday, April 8,champions. John Guaspari was high man three schools compiled 3-1 and then journey to Kalamazoo 
The Giants, presuming Marichal returns to form, should have for Notre Dame in the Purdue 
records in the four day for a return game on April 10. 
enough to place third. Houston is my pick for the fourth spot, one notch match, rolling a 681 while team tounament that also included The Irish glfers will participateahead of the Braves. captain Jody Tigani led the Irish lllinois and Florida. in the Robert Kepler Invitational 
San Diego is in a class by themselves at the bottom of the loop. with a 580 score against Valpo. Alex Wilson's thinclads will at Ohio State, April 9-10. 

THE OBSERVER April 2, 1971 
Russia failing in East Europe 
HARLEM 6LOBETROTIERS 
Sunday, April 11 3:30 p.m. 
ACC ND and SMC Discounts Ticket prices $4--No discount $3--Purchase for $2 (Limit 2) $2--No discount 
General Admissions--$1.50 Purchased day of game, only: 
Must present ID Card For Discount at ACC 
r-~:~=~=~·1 
. Il
Is now ·~~el-..-e. ...,pucatioaa for the position of Bulioesa ~ " Maaa1er for the Aeademle year ll'll-7Z.
I 
~ w:c~:!JY3:~~J~:itnntte~nigr0:d~:~.,r~dp~~~~ti~r:pjorpll~nt be « " k ~
".?~ ~~~~~=-·e~~~~t.~!:~:fti~AeC::'J!tan:fodfce ~U:!r~~:n•;,:,~ ~ 
» financiaf statementaC <tneomes, Finaner.T Posttfonle Source and Ap­j fe~~an~~n orA~~~!is ~=~efv~!, ~==::rb~~geot.:~ bo!:~~:rillg~=~
~ other aspects of finaneial management ~ 
~ bad.ivldual should be oriented toward growth of the oba -··· :~rv~:~~~:e ~~1:!:b1d!!~pe•-!ttbce o:tv:~··l!'l 
~~ ministraUon, ~~~ fi.Dandal ia~uttoa.s, and adveriiaers ~ and their ageatles. 
~ Applieant must be willing to devote 15 to20 hours r,'rweek. There isa •l ~ possibility of academic eredit in Business Admin stration and the salary If·'•' ~ ts SlOO per month. 
~ 
& :~:!~ w:ru::e~~lt~!a~:!~:-Jo:.•:e, l:fe~caedf!e:~~~ ·~ 
·.·. rurricular business management; a:fother lnformaUoa ~_;.
i .
deemed pe~ent via rll"'i class man to: 
I fu~~M I 
~ c/o Bruce Rieck , Business Manager ~ ~ § P.O. Box 1100 ,,
L_.,,,.,,...,,_~:.:.:::~~ndiono 4~~::.,_'''''''"'"'"''''''"'""-''' 
Continued from page 2 
Curtain countries as a "camp" rather than a "bloc" because the prior term and others used to refer to a monolith have lost their meanings. The Decembrist Revolt was only one of recent events which have brought into focus thz instability of "the hegemonious sphere" of Com­ml\nism, said Prof. Dziewanowski. 
Prof. Dziewanowski referred to the other seven "explosions" in the camp, including Czechoslovakia dn Hungary, in the last 25 years that belie any oneness. These "costly, dangerous" events have wide international complications because they occured within a supposedly common idealology. Included in the 8 were 3 cases requiring War Pact intervention. 
The latest in this train of events was possibly the most significant because it occured only 2 years after "the inhibitory" con­sequences of the Czechoslovakian explosion. Signs of Soviet anxiety included the Soviets' un­willingsness to intervene and a promise, after the events had taken place, to provide 2 million tons of grain, even though Russia is suffering its own economic hardships, according to Prof. Dziewanowski. 
Prof. Dziewanowski also dealt with the events leading to this latest explosion, namely the signing of a Germany-Poland Treaty and the toppling of Gomulka from power. 
The Treaty stabilized postwar boundaries and caused a number of side effects. Germany promised economic aid, to an eager Poland, said Prof. Dziewanowski. 

The first malt liquor good enough to be called BUDWEISER@ 

Political implications were words, he said, "its timing was no possibly even more far reaching 
insignificant.'' since the treaty followed a Gomulka 's demise followed 
similar USSR-Germany pact, it this treaty which he had called, not only confirmed it but it also "a great success." The paper, appeared to confirm German which determined what had readiness to recognize Russia as 
previously been termed "an an overlord and to recognize the impossible frontier", gave the 
Breznev Doctrine, according to Polish people a greater sense of Prof. Dziewanowski. In other security. 
OLeary, Maciarelle elected 
Carmen "Mac" Maciarelle's ticket won the Fisher Hall elections held Wednesday. The victorious Presidential candidate and his mate beat Kurt Kiesling's ticket 92 to 62. 
Running with Maciarelle were Buddy Carpenter-Vice President, Nick Crnich-Treasurer and Greg DeLisle-Secretary. 
The defeated ticket included Kurt Kiesling-President, Jim Waddich-Vice President, Tim Brennan-Treasurer, and Carter Tackett -Secretary. 
At the same time in Pangborn Hall, Denis O'Leary won the hall's presidential election with 84 votes to his nearest opponent's tally of 69. Vice-presidential candidate Moreno emerged as victor over opponents Weeds and Chechhia with 60 votes to 48 and 46, respectively. AI Constance took the Secretary-Treasurer 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~..;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. 
A mass in sympathy with the suffering of the refugees in South Vietnam and the dedication of the late Dr. Martin Luther King to relieving suffering will be held at 3 pm this Sunday on the Main Quad. In case of rain, the mass will be held in Sacred Heart. 

post with 80 botes to Delano's 60. 
Holy Cross Hall elections 
resulted in a tie between 
presidential hopefuls Ken Vilane 
and Mark Kneepkens. A run-off 
will be held Monday. 
Calley to leave Ft. Benning stnckade 
Continued from page 1 
This requires successive reviews 
by the convening authority-in 
this case Lt. Gen. Albert 
O'Connor, the 3rd Army com­
mander--and several other 
military command levels and the 
secretary of the Army. 
Calley.has been confined to the stockade since his conviction and normally would be trasferred to the federal penitentiary at Ft. Leavenworth, Kansas to serve his sentence. 
The effect of the President's order is to put Calley under the same restraints--in quarters at Ft. Benning--that he was under when his trial was under way. 
Ziegler said the White House has received more com­munications regarding Calley than any other incident. 
Issue Staff 
Night Editor-Joe Abell Headlines-Don Ruane Compugrapher-Bill Clemency Night Controller-Mike Heffren 
1971 Senior Class Fellow WILLIAM MOSES KUNSTLER 
Stepan Center April 2 8:30 pm Free Admission All Invited 
Nickie's New Opening Hour 
11:00 am 
Special--$1.25 a pitcher (PBR) from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Also featuring turkey, ham and other special sandwiches. 
ABSOLUTELY 
No ads accepted after 4pm on the day prior to pub/ication 







