------------------------~---------------------------------------. 

'Massive Crackdown' 
Vol. V, No. 119 ~erving the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Community Friday, April 30, 1971 

Drug Raid Rumored Soon 
Three separate reports have out a classified ad which ran in Reportedly, the girl's mother was raid on campus this weekend. carried out by the South Bend been received by the Observer the April 23rd edition of the startled and asked her how she The caller did not know though Police netted four Notre Dame warning of an impending drug Observer which said "Stash! had learned of the raid. The when the raid was going to be. students, but police did not raid raid on the Notre Dame campus Stash it!" and named the woman allegedly went on to Fr. James L. Riehle, dean of dormitories on campus. Two of 
this weekend. All the reports prominent university official. reveal that the South Bend police students, denied that the security the students were arrested on were unclear as to whether the This our member claimed, was and Federal Agents were plan­department maintained files on campus. 
raid would be on Friday or run in response to reports that the ning to raid the campus this known or suspected drug dealers. The raid was a result of the Saturday. official had revealed the im­weekend. He also denied any knowledge of work of an undercover agent for 
An Observer staff member pending raid. Thursday morning a caller who a drug raid this weekend or the South Bend Police. Three of claimed that a high university Another Observer staffer refused to identify himself, told reports of one. Fr. Riehle added the four students were charged official had told various people revealed that a friend of his, an Observer editor that he had it though, that he didn't think the with misdemeanors and two were that there will be a "massive whose mother works for the local on "very reliable information" rumors were so bad since it made acquitted while the charges crackdown on pushers on campus FBI, had heard this story and that the campus was going to be a lot of people throw away their against the third were dropped. 
this weekend." gone home and jokingly asking the object of a raid this weekend. drugs. The fourth is still awaiting trial 
In support of this, he pointed her when the raid was to be. The caller said that his sources A December 17th drug raid on felony charges. were a South Bend Police official and an employee of the security department.
Confidence in reason ND student appointed
The security department employee, the caller alleged, had told him that the South Bend


needs comeback: Booth 

to SMC cabinet place 
police had been going through a by S. Kane file which ND security keeps on 
start in the actual merger of the
We must restore our confidence known or suspected drug dealers student governments of the two
in reason, Professor Wayne and users, and had carted off campuses. "Kathy Barlow and I,
Booth said yesterday, referring many of tho~e files. 
and many other people, feel that
to the irrationality of much of the The caller also said that his the way to become coed is to do it­
present day debating between friend in the South Bend Police -not sit and wait for technicalities people and groups. Prof. Booth Department had revealed to him on the administrative level. Wewas the guest speaker this week that there was going to be a drug have a responsibility in theduring the Ward-Phillips Lec­
tures 1971, sponwred by the Six members join process of becoming coed: we must effect a change in at­
English department . 
titudes," Candon said.
Yesterday, the fourth and final SMC Appeak Board "We will have accomplishedlecture was given by the something if, when we leave,professor of English at the students Will speak only of theUniversity of Chicago. The title of 
the last lecture was "The Appointments to the St. Mary's 'east and west campuses' Warrants of Assent in Thought, Campus Judicial, Community naturally," Candon said. 
Action, and Fiction." Relations and Appeals Boards Jack Candon Candon said he felt that having a Notre Dame student worhlng in 
Prof. Booth developed ideas on were announced yesterday by
Professor Wayne Booth the St. Mary's cabinet would
such subjects as protest, af-Missy Underman, student body by Mike Murphyfirmation, negation, and offer only an irrational vice president. The appointees Notre Dame student Jack improve communications and 
inter-relations between the
revolutionary thinking, argument, he said. were approved by the seven­Candon was appointed Com­schools and felt that such an
traditional thinking and reason. With regard to the ever present member Judicial Review Board munity Relations Commissioner He said protest is legitimized debates between revolutionary on April 21. of the St. Mary's Student exchange should even be con­
and traditional Prof. sidered at Notre Dame.
when, and only when, it is based thinkers, Sue Welte, present sophomore Government yesterday. Candon, on reason; and reflects the view Booth suggested that the answer class president, was appointed as who held the same post at ND last He said the commission's goal held by most of the people af­lies not in repudiation of the old chairman of the Campus Judicial is the development of both inter-, 
year in the Krashna ad­
fected by the protest. Too often, truths nor in a strict adherence to Board. The board, composed of ministration, stated that he was and intra community relations. protestors rave about issues in a them, but rather in "refurnishing seven students, reviews cases happy with the appointment, but Contact between ND.SMC and 
the South Bend community is
reaction to their selfishness or their relevancy." involving infractions of student knew that would have to go out 
emotions, and offer only an He complained that much of regulation. and those involving and learn what the St. Mary's chiefly through volunteer service 
irrational he said. the present verbal warfare fails the infringment -by a student -of students want. continued on pa~e 8 to deal straight-forwardly with another student's l'ights as 
He said, "I realize that I have
the disputed question; and what specified in the statement on to implement ideas Anti-abortion dJive
the andshould result in a "clashing "Student Rights and Respon­wishes of the SMC students.

exhange of reasonable con­sibility". The chairman calls Community relations is not the S]J0111Dred by K ofC 
siderations", is replaced by meetings of the board as job of the commissoner-­by T.J. Burkemeaningless demonstration. necessary; she may also appoint involvement is essential." 
A nationwide campaign against These means of protest are used • members to sub-judiciary bodied Candon said that the ap­abortion has been initiated at 

pointment, hopefully, would be-.a
continued on page 8 continued on page 8 Notre Dame wtder the spon­sorship of the Knights of Columbus, it was announced
Unanimous opinion 
yesterday at a press conference. 
The Notre Dame Council is the first to announce its campaign, although similar anti-abortion


'Imminent danger' defined 
movements will be undertaken by other Knights of Columbus
In addition to recommending room";
The Student Life Council Councils throughout the nation. 
clarified the "imminent danger" that "each hall, after con­"continuing review and In attendance at yesterday'sclause of the University Judicial sultation with the Hall Life upgrading of the hall rec­meeting in front of the Ad­Code today. In other action they Board" formulate its own tors"· ministration Building were 
also adopted the Hall Life parietal regulations, the Hall Life "an ~xtensive in-training 
Edmund P. Joyce, executive
Report, which proposed an end Report recommended: program for hall rectors"; 
vice-president and Fr. Jerome J. 
to Trustee parietal guidelines. clarification and publication and Wilson, vice-president for
The SLC adopted a proposal of alcoholic beverage rules; a review and instruction of 
business affairs. Both men are
that would guarantee a hall clarification of "the resident assistants. 
members of the Knights of
provisionally suspended student distinction of between· a The report also noted that 80 
Columbus and are supporting the 
a hearing within two weeks of his private room and a public per cent of the students do not 
campaign.
suspension under the con­think that visiting hours should
Text of the SLC resolution .Junior Bob Walton, who is the
troversial clause. be limited. 
clarifying the "imminent Grand Knight of the K of C,
Prof. William McGlinn, During the discussion of this
danger" clause: together with sophomore Jack
chairman of the SLC's Drug report, which occupied the
It is moved that all students Kelly, K of C warden and
Abuse Committee, called the 23 greater portion of the meeting,
being provisionally suspended program director, outlined the
word resolution the unanimous Fr. Reihle insisted that a copy of
under the "imminent danger" · origins and goals of the anti­
opinion of the committee. the questions asked of students
clause have their hearing abortion movement.
After a minimal amount of and a summary of the exact
commenced within two weeks The idea for the campaign
discussion the SLC adopted the results of the survey be included 
after requesting an appeal unless originated last March at the
revision with only one dissenting with the report.
the suspended student requests a

vote, Fr. James Reihle C.S.C., 
Dean of Students. dealy. continued on page 8 continued on page 2 

~-------------­
Page 2 ACCOUNTING MAJORS 
SEE OUR AD IN THE 

JOURNAl of ACCOUNTANCY Becker CPA Review Course 

Tuesday, May 11 
8:30 PM in the ACC Tickets: $5.50, 4.50, 2.50 On Sale at Student Union Ticket Office, dining halls, & ACC 
-

THE OBSERVER Frida April 30, 1971 
Campaign against abortion initiated· 
continued from page 1 
organization's Supreme Office Headquarters in New Haven, Connecticut. It was there that an anti-abortion program was presented to the various national college councils. 
According to Walton, who attended the meeting, Notre Dame was cl:losen to kick off the campaign because of it's prestige, and due to the fact that it has the oldest and largest college council in the country. 
Concerning the program, Walton said, "This is going to all councils, not just colleges. We are the first ones to do it. I am certain others will be following us." 
"One of our big contentions is that a lot of people are concerned about the dignity of human liEs, and the values of life, and they complain about the shedding of life in Vietnam, Pakistan, and the highways of America," Walton said in explanation of the movement. And yet, they don't consider the loss of life here and they don't realize actually, that through abortion they are cheapening the value of human life," he added. 
Walton summarized his beliefs by 'saying that it's a "very distressing situation." He added that the K of C is trying to make people aware of abortion and called it "an outright slaughter." 
Kelly explained that as part of the campaign, the council is distributing anti-abortion bumper stickers, which may be picked up for free from their headquarters on the South Quad. The wording on the bright orange stickers is, "Abortion is mur­der." 
The stickers are being made available on a nationwide basis to all councils at no charge by the Supreme Office. 
Another part of the campaign involves the use of the media. Walton said that anti-abortion movement is planning to run some ads in future Observer editons. 
Other possibilities of reavching the public also were discussed. "There was some information sent to us, and there are two sets of billboards that are being of­fered to councils across the country" Walton said. Deputy Grand Knight. 
He also noted that the Notre The Knights of Columbus' 
Dame council was chosen at the monthly magazine, Columbia, 
New Haven meeting as the third will cover the beginning of the 
best in the nation, on the basis of anti-abortion 
council projects. The Knights of Columbus' 
Other officers who are direc­monthly magazine, Columbia, 
ting the Knights of Columbus will cover the beginning of the 
campaign include Fr. John P. anti-abortion campaign by the 
Mulcahy, who is the council ND council in a future issue. 
chaplain, and John Walker, the 
PAC denies any opposition to An Tostal festivities 
by D. Rock 

Dave DiBacco, a spokesman for the Notre Dame Peace Action Committee, said yesterday that it is not the plan of the P.A.C. to congtict in any way with An Tostal activities. 
"It's unfortunate," said DiBacco, "that An Tostal has been scheduled for this weekend, however, it's a traditional event and I hear a lot of people have fun. Our purpose is to inform interested students of the Viet­nam War and the May Day ac­tivities in Washington. It is our intention to bring about in­dividual understanding of the War itself." 
Asked about any sort of protests during the An Tostal activities, DiBacco said he had heard rumors about protest activities of a few events, especially the "barbarism" supposedly involved in the ki.>sing contest. 
"It seems that some people believe we are intending to organize activities in competition with An Tostal at all. Our ac­tivities are alternate activities for students interested in an end to the War. But it must be made clear that any protest actions of An Tostal activities are not en­dorsed byeithe~ the Refugee Aid Program or the Peace Action Committee. Protests will be made by individuals, as in­dividuals expressing their own personal sentiments," he added. 
DiBacco closed the interview on a positive note, however, believing that the May Day ac­tions in Washington will provide a positive response, and results on the part of the federal govern­ment. 
"There will have to be a change. The federal government cannot just sit back without action while the non-violent civil disobedience, letters to Congressmen, and lobbying presently takes place," DiBacco said. 
"Our stress on campus this weekend lies on the acceptance and signing of the People's Peace Treaty. We have nothing to do with An Tostal protests," he concluded. 



MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15 p.m. Sat. 
8:30 a.m. Sun. 
9:45 a.nt. Sun. 11 :OOa.m. Sun. I 2:15p.m. Sun. 

Fr. Robert Griffin, c.s.c. Fr. Daniel Curtin, c.s.c. Fr. James Buckley, c.s.c. Fr. Francis QuinQ, o.p. Fr. William Toohey, c.s.c. 

CONTEMPORARY ARTS FESTIVAL 
AND 
AN TOSTAL WEEKEND 
PRESENT 


IN CONCERT 
The 

Siegel -Schwall Blues Band 
SATURDAY, MAY l 8:30 -STEPAN CENTER FREE, IF YOU ARE 
(Chapped Lips will begin at 7:30 Trucking finals between sets!) 

Finance Oub elects officers 
by Mike Murphy 

Steve Flood was elected to Finance Club president at a meeting Sunday night, April 25. Also elected were Michael Marget, vice-president; Pat Wegeng, secretary; and Gerald Gulick, treasurer. 
The Finance Club, according to 
~ ND·SMC Theatre 
presents 

The Musical 
Comedy Slash 

Book, Music and Lynes by LIONEL BART 




OLIVER! 
!\lay I, 6, 7, 8 at 8:30pm. May 2 at 2:30 pm. O'Laughlin ,\uditorium. $2.00 Tickets. Information: 284-4176. 
Notre D•nte AYe. Apts.
Do you desire to live off-campus? Now taking reservations for Sept. 1, 
800 bloelr N.D.A.
1971. Nine month lease, accomodations for four or five to an 

Phone llr. Zfnn
1partment. 

2346847 
_
I 
out-going president Bruce Rieck, is a 30 member organization designed to further the business education and inherests of its members. He listed some of the activities of the club as running of the Mock Stock Market, and bringing of speakers to campus. He also said that the club takes field trips to major financial institutions and businesses in leading metropolitan areas. 
The club manages a common stock partfolio amounting to nearly $20,000. This, Rieck said, was very helpful in learning wise investment procedures. 
Flood said that he was honored to be elected and expressed enthusiasm about the coming year. He said that he hoped to improve the interest in the Mock Stock Market, and bring to the campus speakers who would be of 

interest  to  the  entire  student  
body.  
Rieck  announced  that  Cas  

Rejent had been voted "Member of the Year" for his work with the investment fund and the Mock Stock Market. He also mentioned the other out-going officers, Michael Christ, George Lawler 1and Kenneth Fakler, and thanked them for their work. 
The club, which last year began with a deficit inherited from the previous administration, now has a "comfortable balance." 
Flood said that there would be a picnic on Tuesday, May 4 for those interested in joining the club. There will also be a 

_membership drive next fall. 
STUDY SlWNDS 
IMPROVE GRADES 
.~~=~: &f'~m~~~Sf..-i-r 
USE STUDY SOU!-"lS 
·.1crean Your ConcentraTton ,..,t:J •.l".,rove 
Your Comprehension. Study .\t Jo. Fastt.r Rrte. ELECTRONICALLY PRODUCED SOL ~DS CAUSE THI5 TO HAPPEl~ 
P!<!.~tse Specify 
8 Track Tape, Cassette, Or LP Record 
Send Check or Money Order -$9.95 Each Include 7Sc Handling and Postage 
Sound Concepts, Inc., -Box 3852 

~----~C~ha~rlo=tt~••v=ill~e,~V~a.~2~29~02~--~ 
Friday, April 30, 1971 THE·OBSERVER Page 3 

Nixon speaks on Chinese relations 
WASHINGTON (UPI) -In a He told a nationally broad-Communist China some day,cautious but pointed bid to im-casted news conference that such 
although he had no date in mind. 

prove relations with Peking, speculation would be premature He said under questioning that President Nixon said yesterday in "this very sensitive area" and in speaking of a visit to China, he night that "I hope and I expect to might destroy the recent was "not referring to any in­visit Mainland China ... at some "significant progress" in opening vitation" from Mao Tse Tung.time in my life, in some travel and trade ties with China. The President raised the capacity." "What we have done is broken possibility of a visit to China at 
He refused to speculate what the ice," Nixon said. "Now what his last session with newsmen on the United States might decide , we have to do is test the water to April 16, when he answered 
about the question of diplomatic see how deep it is." questions for an hour from an 
recognition of Communist China But the President went out of audience of the American Society 

r-------------------------,
or its possible admission to the his way to declare "a hope, and of Newspaper Editors, but his Senior Class Dinner Dance United Nations. expectation" that he would visit remarks attracted little at-· tention. At that time, he said he hoped on May 7, 1971 9-1 University Club 
his daughters and their husbands 
could visit China some day, and

Beer Barons Change 
Ticket Sales Friday, April 30
"as a matter of fact, I hope some 

time I do." 7-10 RathskellarST. LOUIS, Mo. (UPI)-The board of directors of Anheuser­
He added that "I am not sure 

7-10 Senior Bar
Busch, Inc., have broken tradition and for the first time in the 
that it is going to happen while I

firm's 120 year history elected someone outside the family as am in office."
president. 

Price $10 includes Dinner,
Appearing before reporters for 

Richard A. Meyer, 54, was elected to succeed August A. 
Dance and two free drinks.
the second time in two weeks, the 

Busch Jr. Meyer, agraduate of Concordia High School and 
President, in a formal, televise<:! 

,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
Junior College at Fort Wayne, Ind., has been executive vice 
~-------------------------,
news conference from the White 

president since May, 1965Busch said Meyer "started as a 
House, emphasized that a North 

messenger boy over 30 years ago, and knows as much about 
Vietnamese promise to release 

every phase of this company as anyone." 
American prisoners would not be IInterested in Making Money?
August A. Busch III was re-elected executive vice president 
enough to permit a total with-

and general manager of the company. Busch Jr. was re­
elected chairman of the board and chief executive officer. 
t
continued on page 8 
r-----~ 

t Apply for a franchise on campus 
t
Modem art on exhibit now 
t 
for Doughtnut, Birthday Cake, 
Contemporary art by Notre darkened room contains neon and 
t Dame seniors is now on exhibit at theater-marquee light com­the Art Gallery and will continue positions. t 
or Fruit Sales
through May 23. The collection of senior art 
t
Pop-art dominates the exibition occupies the east wing of the 
The worlds great

in the form of paintings, sket­gallery, located in O'Shaugnessy t ches, and photography. Bathtubs Hall, and is open from 10 to 4:45 smaH car. See, f,and musical tubas are used for weekdays and 1 to 5 on weekends. 
3-5 p.m. M-F
drive and buy at 

t


Viet forum starts Sunday 
t 4th Floor LaFortune 
Bertles 

t
Volkswagon·tnc. 

see Jim Schmeid or Walt Szware
US 31 N. 

' 
' 


-TONIGHT­


CHAPPED LIPS 
ATTHEROMA 
E WEARHOUSE 
Formerly 
MALE M-1 
2210 Miami 
ANNOUNCES ITS NEW HOURS 
Mon. thru Fri. 11 -8 Sat. 10 -6 
(Next to Morris Civic Aud.) 
The Observer is PUblished daily during the college semester except vacat1ons by the students of the University of Notre Dame and· st. Mary':; College. Subscription~ mJ';' be purchased for $8 from The· Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Inc'. 46556. Second class postage paid
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. ' 
P----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 






THE OBSERVER 
An Independent Student Newspaper Glen S. Corso, Editor-in-Chief 
T.C. Treanor, Executive Editor Bruce Rieck, Business Manage 
Oh! A private buffoon is a light-hearted loon,If you listen to a popular rumour. -Sir William Gilbert 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1966 NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 

Dirty Dishwater 
High hopes and great expectations preceded the meeting of the Student 
Life Council yesterday. That body was planning to vote on a clarification 
of the "imminent danger" clause in the judicial code; the same clause 
used by the administration to summarily sentence four sentences to a 
state of limbo after last December's drug raid; the same clause that may 
come into use Monday if this weekend's drug raid comes off. 
The SLC had a chance to act decisively yesterday. It could have passed 
a clarification placing the responsibility for justifying the rise of the 
clause on the Dean of Students. The clarification could have required him 
to come before the appeals board within 48 hours of his invoking the 
clause, with or without asking th 
The SLC had a chance to act decisively yesterday. It could have passed 
a clarification placing the responsibility for justifying the rise of the 
clause on the Dean of Students. The · clarification could have 
required him to come before the appeals board within 48 hours of his 
invoking the clause, with or witout the student asking for an an appeal. 
It didn't. 

Granted, the administration would fight any attempt to restrict the use of this clause of this clause by the Dean of Students, in eluding a com­prehensive definition of what actions constitute imminent danger. Such a -definition, or restriction would be clumsy and difficult towork with. Situations do arise where the Dean of Students, acting as the enforcer of university rules, has to act and act quickly. There is absolutely no reason though, why he cannot and should not be required to justify his use of the clause before the appeals board within two days. 
No stupendous or tedious burden would be placed on the Dean of 
Students if such a rule were enacted. The imminent danger clause is 
rarely enacted during the course of the academic year. Before suspen­
ding a .student under the clause the Dean obviously has it clear in his 
mind, and most likely documented, as to exactly why the student should 
be suspended. Therefore no difficulty would r present itself in having him 
draw up a rational for his action on 48 hours notice. 
Essentially what the dean would be doing would be to show the appeals 
board exactly what evidence led him to believe the student was an im­
minent danger. If the board upheld him all it would be affirming is that 
there was sufficient evidence to justify the action, nothing more. 
Clearly and logically there is no reason not to have such a requirement. No one would be asked to assume a great burden. No loophole allowing a guilty student to go free would be set up. Rather a check and review on a .very great power held by the Dean of Students would be set up and this check would benefit everyone-the student accused as well as the 
Dean. 

Instead of unanimously passing a 33 word, one sent_enceresolution, af­
firming the status quo, the SLC could have done a real service to the 
University, but it didn't. Perhaps the new student members will force the 
issue, and force the SLC to confront it in an honest fashion, rather than 
copping out by passing a resolution with as much content as dirty dish 
water. 

staff 
News Editor: John Abowd Night Editor: Joe Abell 
SMC Editor: Ann Conway Layout: Glen Corso; Mike Managing Editor: Don Ruane Heffren Features Editor: rick smith UPI Editor: Jim McDermott Features Artist: bobby shiel Headline Machine: Bill 
Sports Editor E Clemency Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Night Controllers: MIKE Advertising Mgr.: Bill Bauerle HEFFREN; HARRISON 
CHUNG 
You gonna vote? Dave Lammers-------------­
------~lr-~~r~a~-~--­
Many people are opposed to the non-violent civil disobediance thaUs goin~ t~ occur i~ W~shington on Monday and Tuesday to oppose the contmumg war m V1atnam, Laos, and Cambodia. Saint Mary's and No~re Dame'faculty a~d students at least a hundred strong, are now on their way to Washmgton and some will participate in civil disobediance there. It is important that the intention of this escalation ?f the anti-_war movement be explained, though I offer only my own mterpretabon of why I am on my way to the Capitol now as this is 
being read. ' First, it is clear that the war in Indochina is genocidal in its methods, character, and intent. The visible result is a million Viet­namese civilian deaths since 1965, and six million Vietnamese have been driven from their homes and provinces into detention com­pounds. Civilian life is daily being destroyed by saturation bombing, 'body count' search and destroy missions, defoliation, anti-personell bombs, and helicopter rockets. It is most painful and disquieting to consider that we have as citizens of this nation, been supporting what is clearly an intenti~nal policy of genocide against those Indochinese that are engaged in a most bitter civil war, and against those civilians that don't give a damn which side wins. The evil of genocide is certainly immense. After years of peaceful and legal protest, the war goes on. The protest is now planned to be peaceful but illegal, non-violent but disruptive. Do citizens have a right to block streets and bridges for two mor­nings as a protest against the continuation of this war' Many would say th.at person~! !reedom to travel and get to work is an absolute right. D1sruptors, It IS argued, bypass thz democratic processes and take the law into their own hands. And indeed, disruption of streets is not democratic in the normal sense of the word. How can practicioners of civil disobediance defend their actions? First, many say that the democratic and legal processes have been tried for five years and yet the genocide continues. Congress has not responded to what is now the majority of the peoples' will: that we get out of the war now (according to the recent Harris poll.) Secondly, the immensity of the evil requires that we force the government to put thousands in jail if they wish to continue the war (though one could easily argue that a 25 dollar bail or three days in jail is not much suffering compared to that which we have inflicted on the In­dochinese). Thirdly, the commitment of those persons who do go to jail will eventually force other concerned Americans to consider what their moral and political stand on the war iu, or to reconsider the in­tensity with which they might express their oppffiition to the war. It-is very predictable (indeed it is already happening) that senators, 
newscasters, editors, and citizens concerned about the war will claim that this action will only serve to alienate the majority of people and weaken the anti-war movement. And if violence occurs in Washington 
on a large scale, they are certanly right. But I cannot help but believe that a different process might occur. Americans will be, at first, suq~rised, shocked, and shaken out of tlieir relative complacency by mass jailings. Many Americans will be permanently alienated. Others will, I hope, observe that thousands of people are so completely outraged by the war that they are willing to risk arrest. Those Americans, and I hope they are many, will see that the cost to America of continuing to wage a war of genocide is much, much higher a price than two days of blocked traffic at the Capitol. 
Martin Luther King initiated his disruptions of the streets in Selma, Alabama under a hail of acrimony that labeled him a Communist and sexual pervert. Many now regard him as an important figure in the progress of the collective humanness of this nation. I can only hope that Notre Dame studmts will more quickly perceive that thz massive destruction in Vietnam requires a strong moral stance that includes, for some though not all, civil disobediance in Washington this Monday and Tuesday. 


Unicorns and whales .. .little figures which I have collected as symbols of the mystery and whimsy of God's Kingdom. The whales .... stylized in metal, wood, or bone ... heavy, ponderous substances shaped into wave-slapping fin and sea-pounding head...playful, death-bearing mammals whose power reveals the cosmic indifference of mere Omnipotence. The unicorn.. .light-bearing glass shaped into the postures of grace.. .framed in fragility, sinewed the sun ... the emblem of sexual love, the mediaeval figure for Christ. 
Today, at Mass, a young man named• John gave me the news: he had just mailed back his draft card, and it was his twenty-first birthday. 
On a single shelf of my bookcase are they collected, the unicorns and the whales, together like the lights and shadows in the face of God. God was in His sterner mood, I think, when He created the whale to swim the fierce seas creatured with beauty and over-kill. Quite different from the saga of smashed-in boats and splintered limbs are the slightly erotic adventures of a questing unicorn. 
According· to the bestiaries, the unicorn is a single-horned beast that grows starry-eyed and weak-kneed with hoy at the first footfall of the virgin maiden on the garden path. According to the 
pat smith 

THE· OBSERVER Page 5 
rev. robert griffin 
the breaking of the unicorn 
best ancient sources, a unicorn is at its happiest when it is allowed to rescue a virgin maiden .from the inconvenience of being lashed to a tree by her demon lover. In an age when the woods were filled with virgin maidenhood pinioned to the shrubbery, unicorns apparently massed themselves into rescue packs and roamed the thicket like St. Bernards crossing the Alps. 
Today, alas, the one-horned beast is seen no more in the land, and who weeps now for the unicorn? Only virgin maidens, it is to be feared; if they too should become extinct, we should all have cause for mourning. 
In the bestiaries, Christ was seen, spiritually, as the Unicorn alluded to in the Benedictus: "He has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David." The image of the horn is heraldic rather than erotic; but Christ is traditionally described under the images of a young, sensuous lover, as is evident in the ap­plication to Him of the Bridegroom's lyrics in the 
Song of Songs. 
It is as a Christ-image, a Saviour-figcre into which has been blended the roles of lover ·and deliverer of innocence, that I love the unicorn best. Once at the Urchins' Mass I tried to explain Passiontide as the season of the Breaking of the Unicorn. First, I showed the children a one-horned, milk white little figure that had suffered from a fall: a leg was broken, and the horn had disappeared entirely. Then I showed them another unicorn, a twin to the first; he was whole' and intact and full of beauty. On Easter, I explained, the brokenness in Christ will be healed; like the unicorn, He will be renewed in loveliness, and full of beauty also. Unfortunately, afterwards, I left the unfallen figure on a table, out of harm's way, to remind us of the promise of Resurrection. There a child, full of wonder and love, approached the fragile creature too closely; in a moment, it too lay smashed on the floor, for it was indeed the season of the Breaking of the Unicorn. 
Also at Mass today was a boy named Jim. Sometimes, when I see him in church, I think of that night nearly a year ago when that same face looked up at me from a bed in the Emergency Room of the St. Joe Hospital. It was a night memorable for the bodies broken in the traffic of Notre Dame A venue. 
A few days later, a new unicorn came to live on my shelf. With him was a note: "You see, Father, he was broken --but just as it was we who broke him, it's also we who can put him together by sharing him with each other ... " Jo~n and Mark an~ Jim, full of light and grace, the c~1ldren ~f Ommp~tence, framed in fragility, sm~wed With sun ... J1m and Mark and HJohn, the ~mcorn as broken; as mended; as deliverer of mnocence yet unfallen from the hand of life ... Mark and John and Jim representatives of a generation created in beauty and strength, but hopefully not as the playthings of whimsy ... 
0 God, Who made the. whale for power and the glass to give light, send forth your children metaphored in the myth of the gentle beast, not t~ face the hour of their breaking, but to share in the season of mending for a world that lies shattered like a fallen unicorn at Thy clumsy, indifferent feet. 

•


bergman: the passion of anna-a rev1ew 
This coming weekend Cinema '71 has scheduled The Passion of Anna by Igmar Bergman at two and eight p.m. at Washington hall. The American distributor United Artists has given an unfortunate and misleading title to the film. First, Anna is not the protagonist (and one of the four main charac­ters) and second, the title suggests a sexual conn~tatio~ where none exists (UA titled the film this for obviously commercial and promotional reasons). The original title of the film, A Passion, conveys the intended religious signigicance present throughout the organic continuum of Bergman's other films. 
The universe to Bergman is created by an im­placcable and equivocal Being. Consequently, his characters exist in an estranged isolation within the vacuum of universal silence. Some of his charac­ters destroy themselves like the young suicide in Winter Light. Others become hermits who crave for seclusion, like the artist in Hour of the Wolf, the musician in Shame (also brought this year by Cinema '71), and the artist Andreas Winclelman in Passion. Andreas (Max von Sydow) and his lover Anna (Liv Ullman) attempt to cope with themselves while living on an island off the coast of Sweden. The stark countryside parallels and is a part of the void lift after the stripping of illusions by Anna, Andreas, their architect neighbor Elis Vergius 
<Erland Josephson) and his wife Eva (Bibi An­derson). All that remains is violence and a vacuum of affections as seen in Anna's dream of nowhere to go the violent quarrel between Andreas and Anna, and the indexed photos of people during violent emotion by Vergirus. Their world is one of contradiction (a beautiful Eva photographed during one of her migranes, Anna's lies, the attack on the innocent man) to which the characters become 
aware. 

Bergman's characters try to bear the meaningless absurdities and contradictions without resignation which is their final passion. For in­stance, throughout the movie, there is a gradual buildup of violence: the four main characters talk of a disaster during dinner, Andreas finds his dachshund in a noose, sheep are killed, villagers savagely assault a defenseless old man who hangs himself, a horse is killed in a fire, Anna and An­dreas' violent quarrel. With each violent oc­curance, Andreas becomes more aware of the terror of the universe. Like the two women in The silence and Persona, Anna and Andreas eat each other alive spiritually which is vividly evident in cubistic two-shots and unremitting close-ups of von Sydow and Ullman. 
The complex simplicity of Bergman's films is 
seen in the quiet seriousness of the script and the 
closeness of the working relation of his associates. 

conversations in Personna and Winter Light. This alienation device also shows the audience more aspects of the Bergman company, but at the same time the actors' comments, which were most likely written by Bergman himself, add dimensionally to .the film. 
Also in.the film besides the conversations with the actors are reverbations from past films making the film cohesive with Bergman's other movies. Most explicit are the locale of the setting, the same ac­tors, and closing lines of the film ("This time his name was Andreas.") More subtle are such elements as the architects' surname (Vergirus) echoing Dr. Vergerus in The Magician and the stark cinematography by Sven Nykvist. Passion is Bergman's second film in color. The first was All these Women (jointly written by Nykvist and Bergman). Both films explore beautifully the color 
imagery that, I think, only is equalled by An­tonioni's Red Desert. The last sequence of the film is one of Passion's most vivid cinematographically: Andreas walks back and forth while a clock ticks (as in the first dream sequence of Wild Strawberries). As one approaches the pacing An­dreas in a slow zoom shot, the character dissolves 
into the void of the white celluloid, representing the The reality of an artistic fabric pierces the audienrie silent void within one's self. Passion, then, is an by the four main actors seen off the set commenting accumulation of Bergman's past films and one of on their roles. Such a Brechtian Entfremdung­his most brilliant efforts. Take time out this Effect echoes the opening of Persibba, the camera's weekend at two and eight p.m. at Washington Hall 
camera's shadow in The seventh seal, the long to see the best film brought to campus this year. 
/ vietnam: perspectiv~s 
The American way of war--overkill. The population of North Vietnam is approximately half of what it was in 1964. 
This is war American style--carried on with one of the greatest land warfare weapons devised by our great American technology-napalm. Atrocities are daily committed by American planes in our name. This is the Vietnamese peasants view of the American democracy, which has come to save him from the War mongering Communists, who have come to ·destroy his land. 
But people seem to forget that this war still rages on. People forget that in 1968 candidate Nixon made a major anti-draft pitch. He said, "Today all across our country we face a crisis of confidence. Nowhere is it more acute than among our young people. They recognize the .draft as an infringement on their liberty, which it is. To them represP.nts a govern­ment insensitive to their rights, a government callous to their status as free men. They ask for justice, and they deserve it." 
As you probably are aware, the draft was r~ently extended for two more years. 
~tudent Government IS sponsormg a program this Sunday and Monday entitled "Vietnam: Per­spectives". 
On Sunday, three discussions on "the History of our Involvement in Vietnam" at 2 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium. "The Plight of the POW", at 4 p.m. in the Engineering Auditorium,. "The economics of the war" will be held at 7 p.m. in the "The 18 year old vote", at 4 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center, and "Southeast Asia, what the future holds", at 7 p.m. in the Library Auditorium. 
Faculty members have been asked to cancel any 
classes that conflict with the program. 
Students; faculty and administrators are invited 
to participate in this dialogue on the war. Nineteen 
seventy-one must be the last year America is in­
volved in this war. This program is a start, 
hopefully it will stimulate some sort of action to 
protest American involvement in Indochina. 
I feel it is imperative that members of the Notre 
Dame community participate--in Washington 
people protesting the war are being arrested now­
it's the least we can do. 
THE OBSERVER Friday, April 30, 1971 
t Germino presents criticism 
' 

by D. Rock moderates can be served by the starts Friday-t Professor Dante Germino, radical philosophers so that radical voices deserve a sym­
f, Open 6:00 t member of the Woodrow Wilson pathetic hearing. He does not,
Department of Government and 
however, endorse radical violent
irill.,....lllll! fl ACADEMY AWARD .. Winner Foreign Affairs at the University tactics.
f of Virginia, spoke last night on
fi BEST FOREIGN FILM! 
"Authentic radicalism is dif­
"Voegelin and Contemporary
6' ficult to define. It did not really
C0Lut.,l31•\ PILl UH(S, 
' Radical Thought." A large crowd 
Q/,'Jif"t f S[N•\TllHI ,1/,(l MAHIN•\ L.ICOf'.NA prl'~l'nl 
emerge until Rousseau and in­
tI 

j in the Library Auditorium 
cludes Marx's early
' listened to Professor Germino 
ph i l o sop h i c a l · writings_
t: INVESTIGATION 
f present his criticism of Eric 
Radicalism is both an affir-
Voegelin, the behavioral political 
,, 
OF ACITIZEN 
f philosopher. 6 Prof. Germino said that he ' considers Voegelin one of the 6 "finest minds in American
~ / 

' political thought." He said that
• 
f he first became acquainted with 

· Filmed in Color t( 6' 
I J.D.'s Required It[R] f 
1.-----------~~ -~ 
CLASSIFIED 
ADVERTISEMENTS 
Mail in or come by Observer office For information call 7471 
BUY AND SELLHOUSING Sofa, Chair And Rug for sale, LowFor rent -June 1-Sept L 3 bedroom price. Call 1328, 330 Breen-Phillips;home -excellent condition & location, Gene r-emperline ­air conditioned, dish washer, fur­
nished, carport $125 a month-call 8100. 
Most Books for: Smelser­or 8229 after 8 p.m. 
American Revolution, Menard­American Constitutional. Summer sublet. 4 rooms, 1 NorIing-Europe since 1920, Sz­bedroom. Near north side, 
cczesniak-Russia, ColliegiateChicago. Ideal for 2-3 students 
Seminar; Also many others. Call 
(adults). Write 3430 N. Lake Shore 
7647

Drive. Sheila Mattimoe, Mary Beth Bradfish. BAR FOR SALE; Interested in all reasonable offers. Call 1328, 330 For rental, Summer.June, July, 
Breen-Phillips.August. Near N.D. 4 Bedrooms, utilities. Furnished: $150 per Portable Tape Recorder for Sale Calf month plus refundable deposit. 6849. Call 287-1777. After 5:30. 
For Sale Nikon F with meter, flash, tripod,Desperate for rent-June 1st to ($250). Call 1081. · Aug. 1st. 5 bedroom, near ND. Call 
'11\aril 284-4983 
For Sale--Gibson Semi-Hollow 
Guitar. Fender Super-ReverbYou can still get the best of 
Amp. Pat 1775 campus house for next year. 4 or 5 guys. Must buy furnishings from SERVICES us. Call 234-6163 Crypt. New Hours
Summer Apart. for Rent. Near 12:30 -4:00
Campus, air conditioned. 1 
Now on stock 

bedroom. Call Terry 288·1120 Hendrix -Cry of Love -$3.60 Cat Stevens-Tea for Tillerman -$3.10
LOST AND FOUND Elton John-Tumbleweed Connection­

$3.10 

: wrist watch, Lucien Pickard. 
Mountain -Nantucket Sleighride
after break: tasty reward. Call 8014. German exchange student offers her services in tutoring. Call 233­
d: set of Keys behind Admin. 6966. 1 ing. Call Bob 372L 
ALL STUDENTS -espicially Par~<,er Fountain Pen. Great Seniors. Get rid of those books that ental value. Reward. Call Colin you will not use again. The Student 
·Book Exchange is accepting any books. Bring them to the Student Services Office -4th floor La Fortune or call 7757 and we-ll pick them up for you. 
Hot News Flash: New company born ­VANGUARD LEATHER GOODS, INC.823 Ffanner Hall. 283-1176. Specializing in: watchband, wrist­bands, belts, wallets, headbands, hair barrettes, custom -made sandals, jeans and anything else made of leather"Owned and operated by Milt : 1 Mini-8 tape player and 2 Jones, Wayne Hall.
kers from a car in D1 parking Player had the name "Tom 

Mail Contributions for the medical
ith" and the city of "Milan" 

aid center of Quang Naito Box 626,
ichigan engraved on the bottom. of $10 for return of player 

Notre Dame Indiana. The information leading to the Refugees need help. Please con­~in.Pnt·itvof the thief(ves). Call 3116 tribute to the Refugee Aid 
Program. HELP WANTED 
SINGLE? COLLEGE GRAD? formed waterbed company 
Meet others. Join the CAC's for campus representatives for 
social, recreational, or cultural selling item in states. 
activities. Write: Catholic Alumni 
commissions for a few hours Club. P.O. Box 2171 South Bend,k per week that can be fitted easily 
Ind. 46615 
ur schedule. ite: htrays Designs, Inc. 

All organizations must be charted sleep water beds division 
through the University for the Walnut St. 
coming academic year. Register !adelphia, Pa. 19104 
in the Services Commission: Call:. (215) 349-9330. 
4th Floor La Fortune, Afternoons. 
Call 7757 
contributions for the medical aid at Quang Ngai to Box 626, Dame, Indiana. The refugees 

TRAVEL
help. Please contribute to the gee Aid Program. 

:;1udent Union Trip--EuropeAnyone interested in working in 
:5209 D'!t.-Amsterdam-Det.,
Student Center pool room next 
NY-London-NY Contact 1st 
year ca .. Br. Gorch at 7558. 
Bank Campus Travel Bureau 
283-7080 9-12, 1-4:30. 
his writings while he was at Harvard University. 
According to Germino, 
Spend the summer in Europe. Charter 

jets to London. Amsterdam and Paris. MOre than 40 dates available. 1 N TERNATIONAL STUDENT ACADEMIQUE SOCIETY. AI eligible for many other "oer1et1ts.r 
(railroad passes, hotel discounts, etc) 

For information call  Frank  233-8142  MINNEAPOLIS  Hair-cutting business has dropped off  some  and  
barber Craig Morris (left) was looking for new approaches to "take up  
Want to take a trip to EUROPE th  the slack." Carol Sikkema, 17, of Minneapolis, agreed to come in for a  

summer? Fly in a iet chartered by 

sample leg shaving job. 
~ATINAL UNION OF STUDENTS 1\ND SAVE! Approx. 60 dates wailable for round trips betw. London md .N.Y. this summer for $245. From Lonaon connect to any of 50 Europear :ities at discount fares. For example: .ondon, Paris: $12.60, London Am· sterdam: $12.00, Paris Zurich $15.00 Zurich-Rome $20.00 Many othe1 benefits (travel passes, hotel 
discounts, etc.) Also available '!lay flights, one-way flights 
A
i$125), Return on any date, 
FRANKOVICH 
.-eachers, students, and immediate 
PRODUCTION 
fam,ily eligible, group rates. For 
PETER 
info and application call Tom 282­2250, 5-10 P.M. Mon.-Fri. 
SELLERS 
GOLDIE 
RIDES 
Need ride to N.Y. area on the 
HAWN 
weekend of May 1. Call Jack 282­2250 
Need ride for 2girls from Miami of Ohio to ND on Friday April 3oth. Call Bob 8921 

Provost: caps and gowns no big issue 
University Provost Fr. James 

T. Burtchaell yesterday said that he felt there should be no big issue about the wearing of caps and gowns at graduationl.He said that the University's deans had decided to follow the University policy and expect those people taking part in the com­mencement exercises to appear in dress. 
He stated that he is in favor of people contributing to charitable organizations, but sees no con­flict here. Apparently, those seniors who have decided not to wear the traditional cap and gown have donated only $40 to the 
AUTOMOTIVE 
1962 VW Bus, newly rebuilt engine, highway condition. seats remove if camper desired, dune buggy rear­end later on; Call: Calhoun 283­7274, days. 
1959 TR-3.· Excellent condition, n battery, generator, regulator, tires and more. Price to sell $650. Call 4896 or 272-2568. 
PEANUTS PERSONAL 
Huddle Lovebirds, who each day at lunch stare moonie-eyed at one another, like a couple of high school sophomores (she rubbing his leg, he holding her hand): Thanx for an amusing year. 
The Farley 


For our heroes, the LeMans Coaches -Ernie, Gary, Rich, Paul. You're the greatest. We love you. 
The LeMans Football Team 
P.S. How about a consolation game? 
Happy Birthday Dad ! ! ! 

~ 
I love you. God bless. Love, 

Jean I 
~ 
Salty Peanuts: Happy Birthday to Betty Boop from Mr. Stein, Leslie, Poombah, and Ray! 

~ 
Leove ND elrde (SMC Holy ero..Hall IS mU..late•)
Lance Corey, protector and 
defender of human welfare, 
I saw you Iitter the quad. 
Practice what you preach! 

~ 
~ 
RATES ~ 
.... ,..,. ..... ~ 
1doy 
'3cbly• 
·­
0.10 ... .711 1.110 1.115 1.:no 

~ 
11-115 ... 1.00 1.30 1.711 ~.. 
11-20 .70 1.115 1.70 2AO 2.10 
2HII ... 1.30 :z.oo 2.90 3AII 

~ 
..... 1.00 ... 236 lAO 
4.10 

~ 
mation and a negation; a negation of the existing social order for social development. It is more a crisis of the system, not in the system." 
Professor Germino compared 
Voegelin's  works  with  three  
contemporaries:  Marcuse,  
Brown and Reich.  

Germino concluded that Boegelin is a theo-centric rather than radical humanist. 
Refuge Aid Program up to now. 

unive";:;Ttj'A-;t:;-c~-;;;;;r-----l PRESENTS 
Poetry Reading 
BY 
JOHN MATTHIAS 
AUTHOR OF BUCYRUS 
'JI 

Sunday, 2:00P.M. May 2 Arts Center (Old Fieldhouse) 
~------------------------~ 
r--cr~~---, 
Student Union Busses to. ~ 
O'HARE 
I 
~
I 

.... 1.10 ,... 3.10 ..,. Contact: 1st Bank Campus Travel Bureau (basement of
""" 

,.... 
1.36 2.10 ~ Badin Hall, next to barbershop) 9:0Q-12:00, 1:00-4:00 daily ~
3.10 4.211 5.10 
41 ... 1... 2.30 3.30 .... 0.110 
..... ,,,. .... uo 4.711 .... 

~ ALL SALES FINAL ~ 
MONDAY MAY 17 • ~ 1:30PM ~ 4:30PM ~ 
TUESDAY MAY 1.8 ~ 4:30PM ~ 
$5.00 one way ~ ~ 
~"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""",J 

Friday, April 30, 1971 THE OBSERVER. 



Netmen win again 
The Irish have already Irish in a close one, 5-4.
by E.J. Kinkopf defeated all of the abovemen­The match with Northwestern,

Observer Sports Writer was cancelled
tioned teams, with Indiana State which Tuesday,
The Notre Dame racqueeters providing the only real com­April 27th, has been rescheduled continued in their winning ways for May 5th. ·
petition. The Staters bowed to the
yesterday afternoon, as they handed Akron University an 8-1 • thrashing. 
rested He can't be serzous
The netmen, after Tuesday's match with Nor­
thwestern was canceled and Editor's note-I realize that Tech at Fairbanks. Wednesday's match with this article, brought into the Everybody knows that the Michigan State was rained out, Observer office last night by Don midwestern teams, especially in handled the Akron squad rather White of Keenan Hall, is a bit out football, and apparently in 
easily. of date but I was hard up for everything else, get voted to the space filler and I did get a top of the poll if they can manage
The only blemish on the Irish ledger came as a result of a chuckle of the piece,especially the to wipe out even a junior college 
team. And since Notre Dame

number three doubles loss. last paragraph. . 
Buster Brown, Mike Reilly, This journalistic gem was beat top ranked (and almost John Allare, Bernie LeSage, written by that well known sports holy) UCLA, they'll ~robably 
Brandon Walsh and Rob Schefter columnist Troy Moore of the stay in the Top 20 if they manage all breezed to easy singles vic­renown Daytona Beach Morning to have a breakeven season. tories while extending the Irish Journal. It appeared under the Apparently the sports writers win streak to eleven straight heading "Focus" on February 25, and editors who vote in the 
matches. 1971. weekly poll aren't too prone to be Doubles teams of Tony logical. Beating one good, or even
All Notre Dame has to do these 
Earley-Greg Murray, and great, team doesn't mean that
days, it seems, is to field some 
Dickie Murray-•Chris Amato much in 1971 college basketball.
kind of sports team (any kind),
also picked ed in as the Irish Probably any major college team 
and they're automatically voted
upped their record to 17-5. in the country, on a good night
to the top of the rankings by the
Coaches Fallon and Daly will and at home, can beat any other
pollsters.

lead the team to DeKalb, lllinois college team, no matter how
In the last basketball poll,
this weekend as the netmen take great, that's having a bad night.
Austin Carr's Irish-a one man
part in the Huskie Invitational. Sure, UCLA has a great team,
team, you know-were rated 19th
A few of the teams competing but they had an off night in South
in the country with a mildewed
in the eight team field will be Bend when the Irish beat them,
15-7 record. They dropped in the
Bradley, Akron, Ball State, In­and Austin Carr, admittedly
poll after losing to some im­a 
diana State and the host team, great player, had a super-good
pressive team, such as. Eskimo
Northern Illinois. night. Not to mention that the coliseum was packed with wildeyed Irishmen screaming at
JIM MURRAY 
everything. 
In the poll after the Great 
© ttn, Los A-les Times Upset, Notre Dame had climbed high in the Top 10, despite the fact that they had lost five games. 
The Notre Dame golf team, There will be plenty of lacrosse
And their coach was crying 
coached by Fr. Clarence Durbin, action on campus this weekend as"Number One.'' 
will take aim on the highly the Irish stickmen play host toRidiculous. 
regarded Northern In­clubs from Cleveland and
The Irish were even rated 
tercollegiate title at Madison, Columbus. A team from Chicago
above Jacksonville, which had an 
Wisconsin, today and Saturday. will also participate in a pair of
infinitely better record than 
matches h€1"e this weekend.
You look ;lt the basketball play-off standings and scores, and you Notre Dame. True, Jax doesn't conclude the Brothers Grimm, or even the Bros. Warner or Mother play the most powerful teams in The Chicago club will take on
Rugby

Goose aren't going to care for the script. The giant is eating Jack and the country, but at least they beat the Cleveland lacrosse club the Beanstalk. The Wizard of Oz is just a rusty old can. The Seven the poor ones. Saturday at 2 p.m. to begin the
The Irish ruggers will be
Dwarfs are just too short. They should change the name of the game to weekend's play. Afterwards,
battling on two fronts this
"Fee-Fie-Foe-Fum" or even "Fee-Fie-Ho-Hum." Thinclads at weekend. Notre Dame, which has 5-2 
It turns out, it is enough to be seven-and-a-quarter feet tall. The real record to date, will take on hero of the game is "Cinderella" spelled backward. The story line is East. Mich. Columbus. backward, too. All he needed for a supporting cast was Milwaukee. The Irish track team, anchored 
The Irish will battle theThe "A" team will head east to

Some think even Bridgeport might do. by hurdler Tom McMannon and 
compete in the Virginia Com­Cleveland lacrosse club Sunday
For years, basketball owners came in two shapes, sizes and at­bolstered by the return of middle 
monwealth Tournament, in at noon and Columbus and
titudes. There were. the dreamers who peered down every country distance ace Rick Wohlhuter will 
which a number of the nation's , Chicago will wind up the
road, hoping to spot some 9-foot 4-incher eating leaves from the top travel to Eastern Michigan 
top rugby clubs will participate, weekend's action with a 3 o'clock 
branches of an elm tree. Barefoot. Saturday for a dual meet with the 
while the Notre Dame "B" squad game.
defending NAIA outdoor 

will travel to Chicago to take part All of the matches will beThen, there were the owners who were afraid they would find just champions. 
in the Chicago Tournament. played behind the Stepan Center. 
such a creature, and their inclination would be not to sign him but to McMannon set a Notre Dame lock him in a closet. They knew such a guy could put the game right record of 13.8 seconds while back in Sheboygan. These King Herods wanted to drown all potential placing third in the 120 yard high 8-footers at birth. hurdles last weekend at the 

Large field set for Derby 
There is a law of physics which saved basketball al these years. This Drake Relays. He will face a stiff is the law which says that, for every action, there is an equal and challenge Saturday in the person Afield of 21 horses, the largest entry. Considered to be the topopposite reaction. of Paul Tipton, who has turned in 
field since 1919 and the second candidates to cross the wire in 
About a dozen years ago, Wilt Chamberlain came wandering down a 13.5 second effort this season. largest in history, are expected to first place are Impetuosity, Twist over the hills, ducking from low-flying aircraft, and carrying his dunk Wohlhuter, out of action since 
go to the post Saturday for the the Axe, Eastern Fleet, Bold And 
shot under one arm, and the wiser moguls said, "Oh-oh, there goes February with a pulled ham­97th running of the Kentucky Able, Jim French, Unconscious,basketball. Get the bus ready. We'll be back in Tri-Cities and out of the string, is again rounding into Derby at Louisville's Churchill and List. Garden quicker than you can say 'Wilt Chamberlain.' " shape will probably run in the 880 Downs. 
Rut Wilt was only the action. The equal and opposite reaction was or mile. The senior captain ranks This year there is no clear cut Post time for the race is 5:30No.6 of the Boston Celtics-William Felton Russell. Russell made a among the nation's top collegiate favorite in the Run for the Roses, p.m. Eastern Daylight Savingsliving separating 7-foot centers from 30-inch basketballs. Russell half -milers. hence the exceptionally large Time. could steal your socks without removing your shoes. 
Irish nine at 

Probable Kentucky Derby Field Lulled by the Russell lesson, no owner panicked when Ferdinand Miami; host A-Rosso-Pastorale entry Lewis Alcindor came walking into the pivot, not even when the B·Calumet Farm entry All carry 126 pounds over 11/4 
miles.

Milwaukee Bucks artfully traded for Oscar Robertson which gave Xavier C-Teinowitz-Sc:hmitt entry them two-fifths of an all-time All-star team on the floor at the same The Notre Dame baseball team 
HORSE 
OWNER JOCKEY ODDS
time. has four games on tap this 
A-Impetuosity w. A. Rosso Guerin 5·2
Even when Russell retired, basketball remained calm. There was weekend, three on the road A·Twist The Axe Patterson 5-2
Pastorale Stable
always Chamberlain. He would teach the young upstart. against powerful Miami of Ohio B·Eastern Fleet Velasquez 3·1
Calumet Farm What they overlooked was that Chamberlain was not an equal and and a single game at Cartier B-Bold And Able Calumet Farm J. Valasquez 3-1 
opposite reaction. He was basically the same action, same style of Field on Sunday against Xavier. C-Royal Leverage P. Teinowitz Salomone 20-1 C-On The Money From in 20-1
player as Alcindor. The only difference between them was 10 years Coach Jake Kline's club has Teinowitz-Schmitt Jim French F. J. Caldwell Cordero 9·2
and 8 months. Alcindor had two inches and one decade on his side. lost their last four straight games 
Unconscious A. A. Seeligson Jr. Pinc:ay 6-1
Willis Reed then inspired the hope that muscle could neutralize and their record has dropped to 7­
List Mrs. J. W. Brown Nichols 10·1
height and youth. He would be another Russell. But Russell did one 14 this season. 
Bold Reason w. A. Levin Cruguet 15-1 thing better than Reed: He made the playoff every year-eight years Miami, challenging Ohio and Sole Mio Mrs. T. Hardin Belmonte 15-1 in a row, in fact, and 10 years out of 12. Reed can't stop Alcindor from a Western Michigan for the Mid­Vegas Vic: Fritz-Sec:hrest Grant 15·1 seat in the second row. Nobody else can stop him from a stance under American Conference title, en­Going Straight D. Ball Torres 20-1 the basket. tered this past week with a lofty Helio Rise R. w. Wilson Knapp 20-1 
Knight Counter R. Huffman Manganello 20·1
You could see where this giant is going toeat the gingerbread castle. 23-5 record, having won 17 of its 
Barbizon Streak Mrs. Udoui Brumfield 20·1
Sleeping Beauty is really dead this time. It's a nice part for Vincent last 18 games. The Redski11s have 
Tribal Une T. A. Grissom Whited 20·1
Price. As a bedtime story, it will have every kid in the country too five hitters over .300 and they can 
Saigon Warrior C. M. Day Gargan 20·1 scared to turn out the lights or even close his eyes. It'll probably put boast of the nation's top strikeout Canonero II E. Caibett Avila 20-1 the commissioner of basketball on sleeping pills, too, sooner or later. artist in lefty Buddy Schultz (14.6 Fourullah A. H. Sulliver MacBeth 20-1 And it might put the game right back in the harms around Iowa. per game). Jr. Arrowhead Walnut Hill Farm (No Rider) 20-1 

Page 8 THE OBSERVER Friday, April 30, 1971 
~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:::::::::x:::::::::::,:~:::;:~:~::~.s~::::::::.~::~~::::::::::::::i:::::::*:::!!:::::::::~~f~'i::~llt';.~ 
Booth examines aspects of thought 1 ROGERS OPTICAL I 
~;~; Complete Spectacle Service ;;;1 
continued from page 1 :::: Glasses Duplicated :~
have elevated those who said Prof. Booth said that unless we to "shock, without regard as to "no." As examples Prof. Booth use reason and clarity as tools for ~;~; Your Doctor's RX Filled i 
,:::: ~::
whether they will persuade. spoke of the high regard given to persuasion, only confusion will Again an irrational argument, the Protestant resistance to result. He attempted to make his ll laraest selection of •••ires" ~~ Professor Booth said. Catholicism, the more radical point who attack with bombs, 
Another common component of artists to traditional ones and the they have more enemies than ~~~ 214 S. Michigan (next to State Thiatre) 289 7809 ~ 
an irrational debate is the liberalized women to men. · before." ·:·: !!:: reliance on an "escalation of Unfortunately, he said, few Prof. Booth concluded with, * . I 
personal attacks, which leads heroes have been glorified who "Descarte wrote, 'I think; 
-~=::=:=:=~=:=:=::=::t~V-===-:::li:2~)
from one charge to another; " opposed the dissenters; and as a therefore I am.' I propose that we 
according to Prof. Booth. In the result, "Society is groping for give good reasoris to each other; end, debaters tend to admit to the meaningful affirmation." therefore we are." other that the charges were ture, he added. Thus, only reasonable men can engage in good argument, he said. 
Appeals Board additions
The professor expounded on some points regarding disputes between the "affirmers" and continued from page 1 Kampson. Junior Ann 
"negators." He declared that the which handle specific cases, such Siebenaller and Sophomore distinction between the two as the late minutes appeals board Regina Asaph will serve as 
camps often is not clear since alternates.
and the coed traffic board. they both tend to negate Five members of the Campus Eileen Dugan and Jan Liebold everything. This is the easy and Judicial Board were also ap­were chosen to fill the student popular way to respond P, Prof. pointed; the seventh member will s'eats on the CommunityBooth said, but it only prolongs be chosen from next year's fresh­Relations Board. This tri-partitethe conflict and prohibits a man class. Returning to the body considers disputes between satisfactory solution. board are Sophomores Tina students and faculty, students 
He made historical references Keppel and Janice Natalie and and administration, and faculty to better ext>lain the popularity of Freshman Peggy McGinnis. New and administration. employing a negation argument. members are Junior Heather Jean Gorman will sit, alongHe stated that people in the past Tripucka and Freshman Patti with the college president and 
one faculty member, on the Appellate Board. Cases from

Candon on SMC cabinet 
either the Campus Jucicial Board or from the Community Relations 

continued from page 1 
who need help. Board may be appealed to thisprojects, he said. For this pur­Fr. Roger Cormier, advisor to body. The Appellate Board is thepose the commission will serve as the commission, envisions a closer highest appeals board and it a coordinator, a facilitating relationship among those of the automatically considers any case agency to bring the willing commission, the local com­involving possible suspension orstudents together with the people 

munity, the campus ministry, expulsion. and the theology departments. 
The commission, he said, could offer opportunities to build intra­Nixon conference community relations outside of 
.continued from page 3

the ordinary limitations of the social setting. It could concern 
drawal of U.S. forces from itself with creating new liturgies 
Vietnam. He said he needs "not just a

course, encounerr retreats, wh­
promise but a commitment"

zre "like minded" people can 
from Hanoi to release the POW's. 

gather to reflect and share their 
A North Vietnamese promise to

experiences in volunteer service 
discuss the release of U.S.

in the light ofChristianprinciples. 
prisoners in exchange for the

Candon, whose commission 
withdrawal of American forces

sponsored such things as the 
"means nothing," Nixon said.

Georgia Tech Ticket project and 
"We need action on their part

the Police Conference, last year, 
and a commitment," he said.

said he planned to publish a 
He said "total withdrawal"

communityrelations newsletter. 
would have to be delayed until

He hopes that this will better 
that commitment is granted.

enable students to be aware of the 
He recalled that President

possibilities available to com­
Lyndon B. Johnson had agreed to

munity service in town and on 
end the bombing oin what he took campus. 

was a genuine promise by the Communists to enter into serious SLC meeting negotiations-a promise he said 
continued from page 1 they did not keep. SBP John Barkett, who defended the report at the 
DON'T 

meeting, noted that it was the intention of the Hall Life Com­mittee to include a tabulation of the survey in the final report. 
BUY ANY
..... ..

The controversial parietal hour recommendation, which would allow a hall to adopt unlimited visitation "subject to the ap­
CAR Till 

proval of the Hall Life Board under the general supervision of the Student Life Council," passed the body by a 9 to 5 vote with 3 
YOU GET 
abstentions. 

CAC's Cinema '71 
presents 
PASSION OF ANNA 
a film by 1ngmar Bergman 
Sat. May 1, & Sun. May 2 2 & 8 p.m. Washington Hall Admission $1.00, patrons free 
HAROLD 
ME DOW'S 
PRICES! 
DODGE *CHRYSLER *RENAULT 
HAROLD'S CORNER 
LaFayette & LaSalle Phone 233-3154 

~ /1
Off-Campus Students : Ballot Boxes for today's SLC election •t are in the Off-Campus Office 
•
• 


9-5 
•• •
•


• Pepsi's got 

HAGGAR 
Slacks

• Haggar Doubleknits ; comfort in fashion ~..· 
Now you can have your fashion and be 
comfortable too. 100% Fortr~l® 

polyester gives with your every move, 
impossible to wrinkle, and they can be 
machine washed and dryed. You'll 
like the comfortable price. 

1.6.00 to 22.50 
u 
~ 







