
Calley verdict draws fire 
WASHINGTON <UPil -Lt. Pulitzer Prize, told the Because the Calley case will b•
William Calley Jrs.'s conviction Washington Evening Star that appealed automatically, th•of premeditated murder at My Calley's conviction did not 
Pentagon had no official com
Lai three years ago split the resolve the question of moral ment other than to say tharanks of the professional military responsibility for the slayings. 
"The verdict speaks for itself." 
down the middle Tuesday and "If they think that they're 
But uniformed professionals in
provoked angry protests on the going to be able to put Calley 
the Pentagon who requested
House floor. away, or shoot him, and solve any 
a~onymity expressed feelings as
"The verdict constitutes a very of the moral questions of guilt in 
mixed as those of the civilian
dangerous step toward Vietnam, they're wrong." 
public.
destruction of morale in the He said the ultimate respon­Army and of the Army itself," sibliity rests with the highest One career noncommissioned Rep. John J. Flynt, D-Ga., told levels of the U.S. command in officer said there had been talk his colleagues. He predicted it South Vietnam. "Given the among other professional
would wreck the administrations nature of the war, given the sergeants-"probably justplans to create an all volunteer nature of his training, I don't barroom talk "-of refusing Arm~t. think Calley was able to make a future assignment to Vietnam out 
Seymour Hersh, the freelance judgment about whether killing of fear thwt a decision on the reporter whose disclosure of the unarmed civilians at My Lai was battlefield might result in a court FT. BENNING, GA.: Lt. William Calley (C) is taken by Military incidents at My Lai earned him a wrong." martial. Police to the Ft. Benning stockade after he was found guilty on all 
four charges in the My Lai killings. <UPI< ( 


Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Communi~)' March 31, 1971 
Scott doubts Provost's sincerity 
Dr. Joseph Scott, director of understanding we had at that social life. According to Dr. 
or informal. Dr. Scott's un­
the black studies program, ex-meeting," said Dr. Scott in a Scott's description of the 
derstanding is that a committee
pressed apprehension as to telephone interview yesterday. agreement, blacks "are supposed 
is to be formed of the newly-hired 
University Provost Fr. James T. He added that the Provost was to be hired" in these areas. Fr. 
personnel, with himself as
Burtchaell's sincerity in "playing games" with Burtchaell was not available for 
chairmen. It would meet toestablishing a Black Studies "agreements that were definite comment. 
discuss any problem that may
Program at Notre Dame. His not vague." ' The discrepancy arose over Dr. arise. Dr. Scott claimed
C?ncern stems from a The disagreements involved Scott's "understanding" and Fr. discrepancy about what was the commencement of the hiring Burtchaell's "possibility" of University President Fr. actually agreed upon at a of black personnel in what Dr. hiring. Already, Dr. Peter Theodore M. Hesburgh's consent meeting on March 12· Scott has referred to as "func-Grande, admissions director, has that the group was to be 
"Fr. Burtchaell is doing a tional areas," including financial offered a full-time admissions formally designated,disservice to our discussion by aid, recruitment, admissions, CQUnselor position to a black 
J.W. Scott trying to change around the counselling, student affairs, and ,, alumnus, according to a letter According to Dr. Scott, the President has stated his
• M 
from the Provost to Dr. Scott ·agreement with his appraisal, 
saying that it summarizes the understanding of the meeting. 
Defendants tn anson case not ~~at~SM~~~~ ~~t:h:n~ttt~t~;~~ 
William M. Dean Burke has arrangedforablackcounselorin "I have no doubt of -Fr.
the Freshmen Year Office {or
expected to go to gas Chamber 
Hesburgh's sincerity for next September, a statement development of the Black Studies LOS ANGELES <UPI) -delayed by motions for a because of disruptive behavior which Dr. Scott denied. 
Program and services for the 
Charles Manson and three young mistrial. was a denial of constitutional black student," said Dr. Scott. He 
women have been given the death Fitzgerald said he would ap­rights to confront accusers. The two further disagree over qualified this by expressing a penalty for the Tate-LaBianca peal the case on four principal the hiring of a black in the Office 
concern that Fr. Burtchaell is
grounds: Death sentences in California
murders but the chances of their of Student Affairs to "deal with making problems "More ever being executed are remote. Pre-trial publicity made bring an automatic appeal to the black student college life, (social serious" than they are in the Chief defense attorney Paul selection of an impartial jury-State Supreme Court. Sirham B. and cultural life)." 
enactment of the agreement. "I Fitzgerald said Tuesday that he virtually impossible. Sirhan was convicted of the Another bone of contention is have serious doubts about Fr. 
intended to pushn appeals to the Refusal of the courts to grant a murder of Sen. Robert F. Ken­whether the linkage of these Burtchaell 's sincerity for the 
U.S. Supreme Court if necessary change of venue so that the trial -nedy on April 17, 1969, and his functional areas should be formal development," he added. 
and predicted that the process could be held away from the appeal has still not been could take four or five years. emotional climate of Los presented to the court. Manson and the three female 
Angeles. 

B k • R •
defendants-Susan Atkins, 
Trying all four defendants ar ett appoznts ejentPatricia Krenwinkel and Leslie together was prejudicial in that it Van Outen-were scheduled to be brought cumulative guilt upon sentenced by Judge Charles H. Older on April 19 but even that formality was expected to be 
::~~~:::~~ :::~.n~·~.,.!~: to post of S. G. Treasurer 
exception of himself, this pastbeen the most important factors
Junior Cass Rejent of Grosse 
year's staff was composed ofin lowering our debt."
Pointe Farms, Mich. was ap­
seniors. However, he is confident pointed Student Government More funds will be available to that the new members would beTreasurer last night by Student the halls now that the debt has able to adjust to their positions .
Body President John Barkett. been reduced, according to of
A double major in finance and Rejent. He added that more funds accounting, Rejent was the will also be available for student assistant treasurer and financial activities such as concerts. planner this past year. He has The new treasurer said he has also served as Morrissey Hall two primary goals. The first is to treasurer. encourage hall treasurers to 
One of Rejent's main duties become more businesslike. will be to continue efforts to "Very few halls keep a close decrease the Student Govern­account of their financial affairs ment debt. The debt now stands and this is one reason why so around $11,000 after a high of many halls are in trouble approximately $40,000 two years financially," Rejent said. He ago. added that he will be skeptical in 
Rejent praised former allocating funds to a hall with a Treasurer Dennis Conroy and ex­poor or non-existent financial Comptroller Brian Nagle for statement. their "instrumental" roles in The second primary goal in­
Charles Manson was given the death penalty but chances of reducing the debt. "Personnel volves recruiting and orientating 
Cass Rejent

execution are remote. such as Conroy and Nagle have an inexperienced staff. With the 



...:.~.~.~}...·.········=·=·=·=·=·=·;·=·=··············;';':':';';·;·nr;'f:':':'fn·:';':·:·::·::·:·r:·:-rrr:-n:::::::::....~:. __7/IE 0~~~~----------------------M_a_rc_h_3_1.:....,_19_n_ 
·~r··~i~~··~·~;~~r: Joe Joe Cassini \:\:.\.·.\:. Tl~ ·.rash·.na-wlll· I·ngs evaluate year·,
:~:~ Layout design: Brian Hic~ey .,.._ :;:; Headlines: Chris Sullivan Bazoo! Bazoo! :·:· 
~;:; Varitypist: Bill Clemency ~~~~ t •t · _Jl t • I t
f.=I::{~~~·:·~B~~~?:,:!:~.f::i:}.~~u~~~w=~w•.=·=·=·=·=·=···=···=·=·=·=·=·=·:·:·:·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·:·.·=·:·=·=:\ n 4() e s u u en Inv o v e Ill en
·­
. 
Applications for membership are now being accepted by the 
KENNEDY INSTITUTE 
Membership is open to ND SMC students, 
Interested students should send name and address to 628 Flanner. 


THE ADVENT LOUDSPEAKER 
. ~udio Magazine Said of the Advent Speaker;"At twice the 
~nee the Advent Speaker would be a good value, but at $116 it 
IS a bargain" 

t  
t  2. Urban Studies Seminar  
'  3. Urban Studies Double Major 
t t  4. Urban Studies Certificate  
t  
t 


t______________,_,_._____ 
by Fred Schaefer 
CHing coeducation as their number one accomplsihment, ex­~BP Dave Krashna and ex-SBVP Mark Winings released a statement evaluating their ad­ministration yesterday. 
1'We of the 1970-71 student government are proud that students were deeply involved! in developing this new relationship · between Notre Dame and St. Mary's," the pair said. 
Krashna also said that most of 
the programs which he rec(Jim-~ 
mended, the committee on social 
understanding, and the Over the 
Hill Nights, were successfully 
activated. 
Krashna and Winings traeed 
student involvement in the co-ed 
project from Joe Zynmerman's 
mitial report last year prompting 
the Boards of TruHtees to hire 
Drs. Rosemary Park and Louis 
Mayhew to study the question., to 
this year's 70-page student 
government sponsored 
coeducation alternative report. 
On this report, they claimed, 
"The Trustees were impressed. 
Most of our proposals were 
adopted by the Trustees in their 
Key Biscayne statement." 
Krashna believes that both 
implementation of the 
coeducation program and 
development of a sound minority 
recruitment program should be 
top priorities for the Barkett 

t URBAN STUDIES EVENING 
t t t 

t WEDNESDAY, MARCH 3'1 I 1971 
t ' 


Supporters, protesters debate extension of draft system 
administration. 
Speaking on coeducation, Krashna commented, "We had hoped that the University would immediately implement two programs especially important to students: a residence exchange program and a complete co-ed dining program." 
"But signs are not good,"he continued. "SMC acting president Sr. Alma Peter was recently reported as saying that legistical problems would prevent residence exchange and a full co-ed dining program until September, 1972. Unfortunately, the Notre Dame administration may feel the same way." 
"We know," Wimings added, "that these legistical problems can be overdome, and by Sep­tember. We have already done much of the groundwork. Our recent report offers alternative practical blueprints for an ex­perimental residence exchange program. With some work in the next two weeks, an exchange for next September is possible." 
"If the administration does not cooperate," Krashna stated, "The student Government should encourage halls to develop an exchange program on their own." 
Both leaders also believe that within five months the student government detailed suggestions for coed dining can be im­plemented. 
WASHINGTON <UPI) Antiwar forces, seeking enough House votes to end the draft, charged Tuesday that con­scription led America into Vietnam and will allow President Nixon to continue what they called an illegal and immoral war. But proponents of a two year draft extension led by powerful Chairman F. Edward Hebert of the House Armed Services Committee warned that to abolish the draft or to continue it for only one year would jeopardize the all volunteer Army concept. 
Opening debate on the bill to raise military pay and allowances by $2.7 billion came after a series of House speeches charging the murder conviction of Lt. William L. Calley en­dangered Army morale and would possibly wreack Nixon administration hopes for an all volunteer Army by mid-1973. 

Rep. Bella Abzug, D-N.Y., in her fiery speaking style, brought applause from the public galleries with a speech blaming the draft for American in­volvement in Vietnam. 
"It shows a hardness and callousness that is un-American" 
r-~~ ·~·-__..-----........~---·• ·-·· -··---·,----~ to continue the draft. which she 
said permitted the continuationt ofan"illegalandimmoralwar,a 
t 
war which the American people have rejected." 
t 
Except for the podium poun­
ding speech of Mrs. Abzug, the 
t debate on what Rep. Leslie Arends, R-Ill., called "one giant'leap" toward an all volunteer 
t 
On the other priority for next year, the Black Studies program, both Winings and Krashna believe that since Notre Dame is usually the last to do something that thz university should profit by the mistakes of other in­stitutions. 
"Minority groups such as blacks and Chicanos are fed up all over. We need a well-financed recruitment program for minority students and a !Jlack studies department,"they stated. 
They believe that the new administration, like their own, will encounter difficulties such as "pressing an often slow ad­ministration into action" and the selfishness of students. 
"Students were very selfish both about coeducation and the minority program," revealed Krashna. "They're going to have to realize that they're going to have to give some." 
Army was con~i~e~ to low-key arguments for ,and against what is probably the most sweeping revision ever in the Selective Service Act. 
The ranking. Republican on the Armed Services Committee, Arends explained the military pay plan and allowances were three times more expensive than President Nixon requested. 
Another member of the Armed Services Committee, Rep. Samuel S. Stratton, D-N.Y., said that continuation of the draft to mid-1972, which will be proposed in an amendment Wednesday, "would jeopardize the volunteer Army before it gets a fair deal." 
Debate over continuing the draft was shaping up into a referendum on the Vietnam War. In the words of Rep. Jerome R. Waldie, D-Calif., "I am going to vote to end the draft. I am going to vote to shut off the money for Vietnam. I am going to vote to end the war in Vietnam." 
t

7:30pm Room 127 Nieuwland Science Hall
t 
t 

. General meeting with An Tostal Committee for anyone
t t 
m terested. 7:00 tonight in Amphitheatre of Student Center. 
t 
t

t Information on 
t I
1. Work Study for Academic Credit 
t or submit ideas to Fritz Hoefert 237 B.P. Notre Dame, Ind.
•
' 

t 
Deadline is Tuesday April 6. 
' 
t 

t 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and st. Mary's College. Subscriptions ma·-t be purchased for $8 from The 
Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Inn. 46556. Second class postage paid,
.._~---~---·· 

Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 




f~~ti~jiONALSTUDENTs1 NEDstudent RobbedPage
~ ASSOCIATION MEETING .
I .
! ~;::~ ;:d~~lstMarch 1'70 theft latest in chain 
IIi: PI 1 t f' 1L 
~ ace: n erna tona ounge ~ (La Fortune Basement) ~ 
IIi: 
~ A G EN 0 A: 
~ 
IIi: 1. Annual Elections 
~ 2. International Festival 
IIi: 3. Freshman Orientation ~ 4. Spring Activities . ~ 5. Annual Send Off For Semors . 
~~~~~~~~~~ii~~i~i;i.,.,..jii~i;i~~i~iii~ii~n~~~~~~~~~~~'4Ji/) Avenue to fmd hts roommate 
Now 
thru 
April 6. 
" CAN SHE COPE WITH WHAT SHE'S ABOUT TO DISCOVER? FOR ADULTS 
ALSO 


HARLEM ~-" 6LOBETROITERS 
Sudany, April 11 3:30p.m. ACC ND and SMC Discounts Ticket prices $4--No discount $3--Purchase for $2 (Limit 2) $2--No discount 
. ; ~ General Admissions--$1.50tif. ._ Purchased day of game, only: 
I WI l ­
Must present ID Card For Discount at ACC -~ ::;; 
!~!!!!!!!~~~~~~!!~~~~b~;Randy Young, who is in charge of 
IT'S THE REAL THING! 

~ Lee Aires, an off-campus Notre 
~Dame student, was robbed of $70 a.;: in cash early Tuesday morning in ~ what appears to be the latest in a ~ series of similar robberies. The a.;: suspect is alleged to be Duane ~Jones, the same man arrested IIi: and fined Feb. 5 for wielding and ~pointing a gas gun on campus at ~two Farley Hall residents. IIi: At approximately 5 a.m. 
~ Tuesday morning, Aires returned ~to his house ~n 313. Notre Dame 
Dennis Donovan, also a ND student, speaking with the man who identified himself simply as Duane. He asked for a place to sleep. 
Aires and Donovan recalled the name from a Scholastic article (Feb. 5l as the man author Steve 
Dixon and his roommate, · minutes. In that time; Jones Scholastic editor Jack Fiala, ahd allegedly get up searched the allowed in their off-campus house house, found the $7o cash and left. 


Optimism over room selections. 
by Mike Nevens 

The annual Spring room selections are about to begin and it appears that the situation is not as critical as it has been in the last few years. 
Fr. Chambers, housing director, said that he expects no one to be forced to leave his hall. He asserted that the institution of the $50 contract has brought abokt a "return to normalcy". 
When questioned specifically abokt the situation in the two towers he was very optimistic and felt certain that there would be no difficulty in accomodating all those who wished to remain. H However, Chambers did em­
phasize that because of the stay hall system no one from outside of the halls could be pulled in until the campus-wide pick, which will be held May 3,4,5. 
In Flanner both Fr. Amen and 
Paul Newman's RACING JACKET 

$ 
99
Profeulonal Style 
in the mail 
• 
Men's small, medium, large and X-large 

• 
Ladies and children small, medium and large sizes 


See-Details On Cartons of 
Coke 

Available April 5 thru May 1, 1971 


''Coco-Colo'' and ''Coke'' llre regiltered trade-marla which identify only the product of the Coca-Colo Company. Bottled under the authority of The Coco-Colo Company by, THE COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY 
to sleep on various nights."Aire~, said that. they. were a bit 
leery of ~llowmg htm to stay, but they fmally agreed to let Jone~ r~mai!l d~e to the article and tts tmphcabons that Duane was "harmless!" However, three days after the Scholastic article had appeared <Feb. 8), .th~ Ob­server reported of the mctdent with the gas gun. 
But Duane was incorrectly spelled "DeWayne" and Duane's surname had not been reported in 
the Scholastic article, Aires and Donovan believed him not to be the gas gun suspect. 
Still wary of Jones, Aires "somewhat hid" $200 in checks and $70 in cash near his bed and fell into a deep sleep. At 7:45a.m. Donovan ·left the house for 25 
the picks, felt that the situation could become tight. They hoped that any difficulties could be resolved by juggling the lower­than-expected freshman totals. 
The Flanner hall council has decided that the picking will be done by freezing rooms in the sections. No one from another section may be brought in until all those in the section are taken care of. Any remaining rooms will be selected by average within class. 
Citing a similar situation in Grace, Fr. Whelan and Jack Kennedy felt that the situation 
Room picks are virtually identical in most halls 
by Gary P. Hunt 

In a survey done by the Ob­server, room pick methods ap­pear to be basically the same for each hall. 
Of the seven halls surveyed (four on the South quad and three on the North quad l all the halls seem to follow the same general procedure. 
Each of the halls surveyed is using the class seniority system with the exception of Sorin, where the number of semesters of residence in the hall is of primary importance. 
would be touchy. Picking in· Grace will be average in class with no freezing. Another dif­ficulty here is that the number of 
R.A. 's for the hall has not yet been definitely set. 
By the time of the hall picks, April 5,6,7, SBP John Barket hopes to have gathzred enough information in conjunction· with Fr. Chamber's office to facilitate the selection in case of a lack of beds in various halls. 
The situation in the towers does not appear too bad at thps time but no one was prepared to make · any definite promises. 
At 10 a.m. Aires discovered the the~t and ca.lled the South Bend pohce. Not~m~ els~ was stolen. 
The descnpbon gtven the South Bend police matched that of the same man arrested on the Notre Dame campus for the gas gun and. who had . been cited . for earher complamts by varwus students. 
It also matched the descri~tion of the ~an who had robbed Dtxon and Ftala over the E~ster break 
last ,Y~ar of 3 radws and a 
televtston set, an~ who had rob~ed them aga1!1 over t~e C~nstmas break thts year, satd Atres. 
The South Bend police said that 
the money would probably not be 
retrieved and that they are going 
to pick up the suspect sometime 
today. Jones, 22, lives at 1228 
West Washington Avenue in 
South Bend. 
Four of the halls surveyed are using the Grade Point Average system to determine order of pick within the classes, two were definitely decided to use thelottery system. 
The hall president of Cavanaugh said when in­terviewed that he expects the hall council to approve the lottery system that was used last year in that hall. 
Of the halls surveyed only Grace and Cavanaugh did not have some sort of room freeze option. 
Some of the forms of room freeze that are being used in the other halls are: 
-freezing allowed if the resident has been in the hall for three semesters or more, 
-freezing if all the residents that are presently in the room. remain, and 
-freezing if one remains and pulls in only other residents of the hall. 
With the exception of Fisher, all the halls have decided that students who were residents of the hall last year and went abroad this year will be given the same status concerning room picks as those presently in the hall. In Fisher, however, students returning from abroad will probably be placed in a double with someone already in the halL Page 4 





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAftER 
GlenS. Corso. Editor-in--01ief 
John Abowd, Executive Editor Bru~ Rieck Busine.JS Manager 
But yesterday the word of Caesar might Have stood a gains the world: now lies he thc!re, And none so poor to do him reverence. 
--Mark Antony 
FOUNDED NOVEMBER 3, 1188 NOTRE DA1ME,INOIANA 
Maybe you can sto_p this war Fr. Hesburgh 
It is unbelievable that two such articulate and intelligent men such as Dr. Joseph Scott and Rev. James Burtchaell could emerge from a meeting with such diverse understandings as the two seem to have. 
The meeting was supposed to have resolved the requests set forth by Dr. Scott and the black students concerning the Black Studies program, counseling and other areas of black student life. 
Yet a comparison of the statement released to the Obs1erver by Dr. Scott yesterday and Fr. Burtchaell's subsequent comments shows that the two are far apart in their understanding of the agreement. 
Part of it apparently has been resolved. Dr. Scott, in his statement Monday, claimed that the position of admissions director had been offered to a black. Burtchaell termed this statement false. Scott however said yesterday that a full time admissions counselor position had been offered to a black. This is true. 
The remaining disagreements are still serious. The honesty and sincerity of both men are on the line. Scott claims that, according to the agreement, blacks are supposed to be hired in the "functional" areas of financial aid, recruitment, admissions counselling and student affairs. Fr. Burtchaell says there is only a possibility that such action will occur. 
Scott flatly stated that the linkage between these functional areas would be formal, a contention Fr. BurtchaeU denied. It is difficult to believe that the !women attended the same meeting on March 
12. The very important question of what type of life black students must face here is rapidly becoming lost in a welter of accusations and counter accusations from the two principals involved. The ugly possibility that the administration is at­tempting to force Dr. Scott out is rearing its head. On the other hand there could be doubts as to the sincerity of the Black Studies Program Director. 
The truth, it seems, is that Dr. Scott and Fr. Burtchaell have some sort of personality clash that is inhibiting communication between them. Traces of this can be seen in Fr. Burtchaell's March 9th letter to Dr. Scott. In several places it takes the tone of a parent chiding a willful child. Scott's comments yesterday concerning his doubt in Fr. Burtchaell's sincerity about the problem are hardly intended to convey his pleasure with the Provost. 
Thus far Fr. Hesburgh has washed his hands of the affair. He has participated in a minor role and left most of the task to the Provost. Such an attitude makes for great public relations, since a person who does not get involved doesn't get criticized either, but it won't solve the problem. 
If our worthy President can find time from running around the country, it seems obvious that this situation cries for the intervention of a third party with enough authority to resolve the problem. It should be done by Fr. Hesburgh and done immediately. 

Goodbye to (sniff) TeiTy" Shields 
People, throughout the season and tournament. Each game, 
Unfortunately, the time has arrived for Terry win or lose, the kid from Pittsburgh produced an Shields, Observer Sportswriter, to assume the role honest evaluation of the performance of the Idsh. of Terry Shields, student, scholar, and all round Now, it's all over. This is not to say that his suc­good guy. Somehow , I feel it almost obligatory to cessor will fail; what is meant is that the old thank "Uncle Ter" (as his boys call him in Zahm) Shield's flair will nevermore grace the pages of the for a tintillating year of literary excellence in the Observer, to distract our attention from that field of sports. culinary abortion known as lunch. No longer will the 
Yes, Shieldsters has turned in some memorable Irish Eye be by-line "Terry Shields." He will be no articles this year. Remember the one where he, in more than a memory of paper and ink. so many words, told the sports editor of the O.S.U. Now, for the tear-jerker: Thanks, Ter, for 
newspaper to go to hell? Ah, yes. Amemorable everything. You've been a tremendous asset to ii:Jot.h performance! Then, of course, who can forget those Notre Dame and all those with whom you've come interviews with everyone's campus heroes, the in contact. Thanks for all the little tips that you so players themselves? Accuracy and enthusiasm graciously passed on for the benefit of your boys. were the trademarks of Terry's reports on the Irish Now that you've got the time, maybe you can spend football games, from Northwestern through to the more of it at the Senior Bar, the scene of that Cotton Bowl. memorable birthday celebration ("I feel 
Then came basketball season, were Terry GREAT!"). By the way ... do you think that you brilliantly portrayed Clarence Darrow in his could find the time to give us that much-publicized defense of the much-criticized Johnny Dee. At the talk on sex and morality? Huh?? season's end, he once again had to play public defender and justify the ups and downs of the team Terry's Boys 
IT'S ROOM-PICK TtPlE AGAIN 
Sue Bury::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 


Call me irresponsible 
Miss Bury is the editor of St. Mary's Literary Magazine, Chimes, and a member of the St. Mary's Student Publications Board. 
St. Mary's College is going down in a blaze of non-commitment 
The administrators will remind you that ND and SMC are "unifying" rather than "merging." Merging implies a total loss of St. Mary's identity. But the college is refusing to maintain that identity in its last days of independence by refusing the support the Notre Dame campus publications, the Observer and Scholastic. 
During yesterday's meeting of the college Publications Board, representatives of those publications requested funds from St. Mary's. The Observer has been funded by the board since its birth; Scholastic funds and representative on the board were terminated last year due to "lack of interest" in the magazine. 
St. Mary's has been advised by an attorney not to contribute directly to the support of Observer and Scholastic because if either publication was involved in a libel suit, the college would be partially responsible. Support for Observer will come in a rather round-about way. If the plan is approved by all the propper college committees, a card will be mailed to parents of St. Mary' .s students asking them to purchase an Observer subscription at the price of $1.50. (Observer representatives are working for a price of $2.00 to match the price ND students pay now.) 
For each of these cards returned to St. Mary's by parents, the college will give Observer $1.50, thus freeing itself from all respon­sibilities implied by direct funding. The board agreed by concensus to recommend that this plan be used for funding of both Observer and Scholastic to the college attorney and the budget committee, who give final approval. There was considerable discussion about including the voluntary subscription prices on the tuition bill or including a separate card for each publication to be returned by parents with tuition payments. 
However, the specific method of getting the money from the parents doesn't matter. The fact is that in two very distinct ways, St. Mary's College is letting itself sink slowly into the west without so much as a sigh. 
One: the main argument against the Publications Board even recommending to the budget committee to fund the Scholastic next ~ear was that with the upcoming "unification" (or maybe it is already m progress-nobody seems to know), St. Mary's funds would be in the hand of Notre Dame anyway. The time mentioned by an SMC ad­ministrator on the board was "within three years"-what that ad­ministrator fails to realize is that Observer and Scho1astichave to operate within current financial structures until that change takes place. St. Mary's and Notre Dame may be one by September of '71; they may not be until September of '74. Until the administrations are able and willing to give an exact date, the editors and business managers of campus publications are forced to work with the financial situation as it is now. 
Two: St. Mary's College is registering a solid vote of "no con­fidence" in student editorship by taking such elaborate measures to protect itself in event of a libel suit. Instead of supporting the publications that serve these two campuses, the college is indicating a lack of trust in the ability of the editorials boards. The idea of cen­sorship keeps creeping up on us. 
In June of 1967, the American Association of University Professors <AAUPl and several student, faculty and administrative associations drafted a "Joint Statement of Rights and Freedoms of Students." Under the heading of student publications, the statement says that the freedom of student editors must be governed by the "canons of responsible journalism." St. Mary's is demonstrating in a very con­crete way that they have little respect for the ability of student editors to practice "responsible journalism." 
The attorney's concern with SMC's responsibility in case of libel suits is understandable. ·However, by refusal to support the publications directly, it is doing two things: one, shirking a respon­sibility to the newspaper and magazine that serve its campus and, two, indicating that student reporters and editors are doing the same thing in managing that newspaper and magazine. 
The administrations of both schools are constantly asking for responsibility on the part of student journalists. It is unfortunate that the financial controllers of SMC are refusing to give support, both monetary and moral, to the growth of that kind of responsibility. 


/im Brogan's back! ! ! 
My life and times as a rah-rah 

one lett hand· two, right hand; three, right foot; fou~, left foot.lt 's easy, just start running and throw yourself toward the ground. . 
Vaguely wishing that I had decide? to 

"What a pickup!" face Austin Carr one-on-one I politely 
promised him that I would religiously
Call me George Plimpton, call me practice back in my room. Thursday, call me late for supper • but A forced double however is not the best never again call me to be a cheerleader. setting for one to practice gymnastics, and 
On a cold February night I was in the in my very first attempt, I sent my Athletic and Convocation Center, up there roommate's desk lamp flying to its eternal for a freshman game, and able to get a reward. The recurring image of myself seat near the floor itself. I don't ever that came into my mind's eye while per­remember being as close to a live forming this first and only cartwheel, and basketball exhibition. The players we~e in many nightmares thereafter, wc:s that only yards away. ·. You could see t~eir of a windmill in a hurricane, and I grim determination, and every once m a promptly resigned myself to clapping ':flY while you'd catch a morsel of con-hands in time tosimplecheers, and leavmg versation. the cartwheels to the carts. 
As I sat there I began to dawdle with the When my dorm neighbors got wind of l!IY 
idea of trying to play in such a game upcoming role, I was deluged w~th 
myself. It would ?e George Plimpton suggestions. The most outrageous of which 
revisited. I could wnte a book ab?ut what was to see if 1 could change the Victory 
it was ~ike for an average armcha~r sports March into something like Tom Lehrer's 
enthusiast to mat~h moves agamst the erudite version of the Harvard Fight Song: 
incomoarable Austm Carr· Fight fiercely Irish 
However realizing that G_eo~ge Plimp_ton Fight, fight, fight 
had already produced a similar treatts~, Demonstrate to them our skill, 
my dreams began to fade. It was at th~s Far be it they possess the might, 
moment that the ch~erleaders. walked m Nevertheless we have the will. 
front of me, obscurmg my VIew of the How we whall celebrate our victory, 
freshman contest. we shall invite the whole team out for tea. 
For the first time in my life I could see <How Jolly) the forest for the trees. The thought oc-Hurl that spheroid down the court, curred to _me, "Why not be ~ cheerleader And fight, fight, fight. .. for one mght. That wouldn t be half as Come on chaps fight for du lac's glonous
difficult as trying to arrange a one-on-one me 
· h t" C 0 na ' 
game Wit A us m arr. r even worse, Won't it be peachy if we win the game. pla~i~g such a. game." (Qh goody) Bidmg my tim~ for a moment wh~n the Let's try not to injure them, cheerleaders didn t look too busy, I slipped But fight fight fight,



r . ,
past an usher, and approached the men who lead the cheers. 
Luckily I knew two of the yellers from past years. I boldly jumped in front of them. and after summoning up all my courage, announced, "I would like to be a cheerleader for one night, and write an article for the Observer about it." 
They just stood there and looked at me, I repeated my rehearsed statement, but I seemed to catch them completely off­guard. Fearing that they would turn their backs on me without so much as a nod, I quickly added "I \_\ill even give you some new cheers, like: 
A bottle of milk, 
A big bananna, 
We're from Gary 
Indiana. 
Guessing, from their frowns that this tactic didn't have a ghost of a chance, or that they had a strange aversion to Gary, Indiana, I immediately regrouped my 
wits, and tossed a peircing stare right through them. 
This latter strategy whipped them out of their lethargy, and elicited a non­committal "Don't call us, we'll call you." But after planting myself next to the phone for the next hebdomad, and receiving only 

wrong calls from San Antonio, Texas, I got 
it into my head to try approaching the 
vocal men once again. 
My second advance closely paralleled 
my first, excepting that I flung in a new 
cheer to keep them on their toes. Keeping 
them on their toes wasn't as hard as it 
might sound considering they were leading 
a cheer at the time. In italics I screamed: 
California grapefruit, 
Texas Cactus, 
We play State 
Just for practice.
Assuming from their grimaces that they 
were either allergic to citric acid or had 
been plagued by the same wrong number 
calls from San Antonio, I vowed to remain 
close-lipped about any further notions to 
supply these ingrates with any spicy new
h 
c eers. 
At any rate this herculean effort didn't 
change their response on iota,and I treked 
home throwing all hope into a convenient 
snow bank. 
This, to my surprise, was another case of 
the darkest hour being just before dawn, 
for just before dawn last Monday, I 
received a call from cheerleader captain, 
Pat Weber, giving me the green light. 

The next four days were largely spent in • man wit~ Ba:num and Bmley, a run for his scarfing up a uniform, and practicing money, Iromcally was also the bearer of cartwheel-type movements. Cheerer Tom the same 10 number as my~elf. . McGowan had given me simple in-Unable to con~eal my Identity any structions on doing a cartwheel He glibly l~?ng~r '. an~ Without any further instructed, ''It's a four count movement--histnomcs. 1 mtroduced myself to 2 SMC cheerleaders, the irresistable Missy McCrary and the vivacious Rooney Frailey. As had been prearranged, we retired to a squash court where they were to run me through some of the basics for a performing cheerleader. 
When the head yeller (or "old yeller" as he is sometimes called) Pat Weber had told me to "get there early so Missy can show you some moves", I had only quietly chuckled at the thought of an SMC dollie ever showing an ND man any 
"moves". 
However, the amount of physical contact in the name of gymnastics that the SM­C'ers showed me in that brief stint in the squash court would in any public place result in 10 years in Leavenworth, or 11 years at twelveworth, or at least five and ten at Woolworth's. 
After much assurance that this was actually how they performed we proceded through such exhausting exercises as the razorbackmount,the SIS mount (for Sports Illustrated Special) and assorted tossing, throwing, twirling, and sometimes cat­ching movements, in which the girls were completely dependent on my agile strength for support. 
After a number of close calls in which Missy's cranium was almost squashed on the court, and exasperated Rooney Frailey, as if in a last ditch attempt to find something I could do, uttered, "Can you whistle at all?" 
A pained look crossed her face as I shot back a negative response, and hoping to redeem myself quickly added "You know it's funny but my sister always said 'Anybody that can kiss, can whistle!" 
"You mean you can't even...' Here her voice trailed off in intense amusement. 
After dropping Missy, this was as close as I got to any other SMC chearleaders. 
Let's not be rough though, Fight, fight, fightAnd do fight fiercely. 
A feeble but oft-repeated explanation of the fact that 1 was not going to take over the' entire athletic program, but rather only be a small cog in the vast University gymnastic machine, all but squelched such non-negoitiable suggestions, and left me free to practice calusthenics that would maximize both my lung and larynx capacities. As anyone with half the in­telligence of a digger Indian knows, such exercises are non-existent so I settled on nothing more rigorous tha~ getting a short catnap the afternoon of the game. .· One might expect from its name that such catnaps be filled only with sweet dreams of feline quadrupeds, but such was just not the case. The horrendous night­
mares of that forty wink interlude were rivaled in intensity only by what was to follow that evening. 
That night the capacity ACC crowd gasped for its breath as a lean but lovable r· t d . tl b th m Dressed
Igure s ro e qme y y e .
exactly as a cheerleader would be, except that his blue shirt was 2 sizes too small, 
d h" h t" t 1 that much an IS s oes propor 1~na e Y too large, he c~ts a physJqu~ as flawle~s as the Observers typographical mach~nes, 
with a chest that would put a pencil to shame. . . The beare_r of t~Is ema_ciated anato~y that w~uld give Spiro T · S~Ickman, the th~n 
I thought that now if ever would be my 
chance to star~ my next f~ature for the Observer entitl~d: J?~hng an SMC Cheerleader. _Rapidly fil~ng through my arsenal of q~ICk result lm~s that I ~ave reserved for Just s~ch occaswns,_ I decided to ~nleash the tned-but-true lme about fleemg to my lod~e at the Dunes. . , 
Somehow, explamed only by the mght s anxiety and the fatique from the strenuous exercises, my fogged brain manufactured only the jumbled sentence: "Won't you lodge ~ith ':flY fleas at t~e Dunes?" 
Havmg withered me With a glance, the SMC belles insisted that we continue the calusthenics until I got them right. An 
exhausting hour later, they sett~ed for a "Well, that's close enou~h.", and m a flash we were_ off t? _the mam ~rena. 
!ho_se mhabitmg t~e mam _arena had by this ti~e nearly gamed their composure followi_ng my last a~pearance and to my chagn':l roundly 1gnored me, much 
preferrmg the warm up spectacle on the court. . . . I was then mtroduced to the remammg
d . h · d · 
10 cheerlea ~rs. m sue rapi su~cesswn,that, _hea~ spmnmg an? han~-shakmg hand shakmg, It was a full f1ve mmutes before I was able to distinguish between Kevin Chismire and buxom Terry Buck. Finally f · t h" h one she was I siddled ~gu~~nt~~ a~d1 ctried to engage her in 
friendly conversation. Seeing that my
mouth could only produce babblings reminicent of verbal confetti, I chose flight rather that further discussion. 
But before I could as much as fabricate an excuse to sink into the walls, two young but rabid autograph hounds beseech me with pleas for my John Hancock on their progr? s. Adamant that I could explain to these impudent pests that I wasn't really a cheerleader, my normally staunch will was gently nudged by death grip around my baby finger that would have dropped a lesser man sniveling to his knees. 

However, their gentle persuasion sent my mind, or at least what was left of it, fleeing to the file cabinets of my past for a memorable way of fulfilling their meager requests. I can onlyrememoer getting one autograph in my life, and that was of a rather obscure rock 'n roll star who called himself Peppi Magoo, from an even more obscure group who called itself that Blues Magoos. 
Their big hit was "We Ain't Got Nothing Yet", but my sister and I figured we really had something, because he had included his best wishes along with his signature. It was an autograph treasure because it contained a personal message. 
Nothing· less would do for these impolite spankers, and I wrote both Johnny and Georgey each a personal message wishing them the best of luck always. Their flashing looks of incredulous delight (not unlike carved gargoyles) were matched only by the rapidity of their retreat. 
Their encounter with me had most definitely smartened up the tykes, for they immediately made a sortie toward the statuesque Ann Stringer and the angelic Molly Teirnan. I was just coming to the realization that this wasn't a half-bad idea at all, when cheerer Paul Palinski requested that I demonstrate what I had learned. 
After showing him that I could suc­
cessfully make one hand hit against the 
other in rapid succession, which· I 
triumphantly dubbed "clapping", he 
demanded in further fashion that I attempt 
something more difficult. 
The more difficult stunt which I decided 
to reproduce for his benefit consisted of 
lifting a female cheerleader from a 
standing position on the floor to a sitting 
position on my shoulder. Having rehearsed 
this into the ground earlier, I thought I 
could handle it with comparative ease. 
So with adrenilin pumping and muscles 
straining, I grabbed Missy by the waist 
and carefully guided her up on my right 
shoulder. Although she is the lightest of the 
girl cheerleaders, (which isn't saying 
much l I felt like St. Christopher fording 
the river with the weight of the world on his 
shoulders. The major difference being he 
got to use both shoulders, and I only one. 
As my backbone turned into a strand of 
overcooked spaghetti, and my knees 
wavered with all the consistency of 
lukewarm oatmeal, Missy, her life more 
precious than her precarious position on 
this human teetertooter, decided to 
abandon ship post haste. 
She was saved from a surely fatal crash 
on the deck only by my gallantly throwing 
myself more quickly toward the ground 
than she could fall. My dazzling split­
second accrobatic act which consisted of 
timing my fall to occur just seconds before 
hers had averted near tragedy. 
The slight line s.eparating the hero from 
the goat can be argued by future 
generations, but suffice it to say here that 
my only reward for such heroics were a 
pulled hamstring and assorted contusions. 
It is embarrassing enough to be injured on 
the first play from scrimmage, but even 
before the starting whistle is unspeakab.e. 
I finished the remainder of my debut 
watching the game from the bench amid 
cries of derision, with my neck, normally 
an alabaster column, gleaming bright 
crimson in the cold Indiana atmosphere. 
The next day this same wounded but 
undaunted warrior was back up in the 
Observer office pleading with the editor: 
"Well maybe I could 'be Father Res­
burgh for a day. Except for saying Mass, 
"nd all the classes I would miss traveling, 
Ithink I could handle it. .." . 

"What a pickup_!" 

r 
Page 6 'Jr'H'R OBSERVER March 31, 1971 

llii--iR~i~flHirr_in=-=-Lk--=-e=-=-~n~e~y~e~J~r-~· ela1bor.ai~-s-~attack on. SMC 
I 
poses black, and non-Catholic hirings 
by Paul O'Conner 
In a letter which appeared in OBSERVER, Hinkemeyer had ex­pressed his hopes that St. Mary's Education Department would black and one 
~""Jflj,.""'..:r""..,~ 
Hest?urgh
.. 

I tonight on WSND "Contact-Notre Dame" 10 I 
p.m. Phone in your guestions 

I Rockne
I 
~ A special memorial program on the 40th anniversary of his ~ death. Featuring Jim Crowley, Frank Leahy, Don Miller, Elmer ~ Laden, Frank Carideo, Ara Parseghian, and others. 9:30 tonight 
I 
WSND 640

I 
~ 
I ~ 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 


,...~l:iillllr.lrllll~-.-~~-=~~~~~ 
111 

St. Marys & Notre Da:me s:tudents eligible fo1r 
Student T eaclhing1 
during the 1st semester 1971 -~2 should come and ap1~ly in room 320, MadeiE~va. 
Application deadline -Friday/ April 9 
non-Catholic to fill positions which will be vacated by the departure of himself and Fr. Raymond Runde. He also said that he hoped the existing faculty would be consulted on new ap­pointments. 
In an OBSERVER interview yesterday, Prof. Michale Hinkemeyer stated that, at St. Mary's, faculty appointments are made by the administration, in ceontrast to what he termed "real universities like Stanford, Berkeley and Northwest-ern," where !he power of hiring lies with a department's existing 
I 
faculty. In this regard, he feels, St. Mary's "operates like a high 
I 
school," with thz consent of its' faculty. "Here we have people who are merely job holders who 
Sister Lillian of the Sisters of the Holy Cross announced early this week that "We are in 
• • •• •· tt 41t • • • • • •• • • • • • •
• Illme Ap1ril IFools ::
• •~
• 
•~• 
• •~
• :: 
•

• ·~
• 




Li!lll 

saturday, april 3 t i'!::w pm in the ace tick!'ts: $2.00, $:!.50, $4.50 t on sail" at thP stud1•nt union tick«>t offin and t dining haHs (tues., 
t 
Wl'd .. thur.) 

t 
(gordon lightfoot will appear at 8:30) t 
• tl
• 
tl•• 
tl
•

• ·~ 
• 
rd 
• 
will acquiesce to imcompetent adminstration." 
In a further attack upon St. Mary's upper orders Hinkemeyer expressed hi~ opinion of what a department chairman ought to be. He should be "a man of courage, of academic attainment and possess the ability to protect his colleagues and to be honest with them" Hinkemeyer said. Ob­viously, I still seek such an in­dividual in my department." 
Addressing himself to the issue of racism on campus Hinkemeyer siad that St. Mary'~ has an opportunity to prove that it is not a racist institution by selecting a Black or a non­Catholic as his replacement. He went on to say that when he had been hired he was assured his 

Prof. Hinkemeyer 
position would not be hindered by the fact that he is not Catholic. 
Summing up his feelings on St. Mary's, he said, "this school is dead, and the people who do not realize that are worshipping a corpse." 

I~ Co-Ex helped SMC admissions 
by Mike O'Hare 
· 
The decrease in the number of freshman applications for the fall of 1971 was termed a misleading figure by Mrs. Miller of the St. Mary's Admissions Department. 
Mrs. Miller stated that the 141 
fewer freshman applicationsreceived this year is misleading because in the previous year, 1970, St. Mary's received 9&11 applications, the most in its 
history.
By March 26 of last year, St. Mary's had received 970 out of 
the total 984 applications finally received. By March 26 of this year, St. Mary's had received 839 applications as compared with the 820 applications received by March 26 of 1H69. 
When asked to cited some reasons for the increase in ap­plicants lasl year, Mrs. Miller 
mentioned the expansion of the Co-Exchange program as a possible possible answer. 
St. Ma'ry's freshmen in­terviewed· overwhelmingly agreed that Co-Ex influenced thelir decision to come to St. 
Mary's. Most stated that if there wasn't a Co-Ex program at St. Mary's, they would not have come.. 
As It currently stands, the largest number of applicant accepted in the 1971 Freshman class are the 122 frof!l Illinois, 
foll?wed by 71 from <?hi?, 68 from Indiana, 40 from Michigan, and 27 fro~ N~w York. 
At this time .there are 8.BI~ck students applymg for admiSSIOn, and d~spit~ an intensive effort to 
t Ch t d t th
recrm Icano s u ens, ere ~:~po~~l. to be a favorable 

"lic:Jmelb~ouncl Apos:ttilate" needs drivers 
desparate need of drivers for our Homebound Apostullate." The Homebound program, which was terminated last December for want of drivers , is a charitable program in which the retired 
sisters visit the homebound, handiCapped, and elderly persons living alone. The object of the project is to provide the needy with companionship and household assistance such as grocery shopping and cleaning. 
Sister Lillian explained that without drivers and cars the program, benefiting many in the South Bend area, will have to be terminated permanently. 
Volunteers able to donate two­three hours per wek are asked to contact Miss Deborah Kerr at 284-4236, after 10 p.m . 

··~~~---~--------------------------------~~------------------~~ 
()pen House 
Thursday, April 1 3-5 
4th Floor LaFortune 
Bring Your Ideas 
Nickie,s New Opening Hour 
11:00 a.m. 
Special--$1.25 a pitcher (PBR) from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Also featuring turkey, ham and other special sandwiches. 
March 31, 1971 THE OBSERIJER. Page 7 
Austin, you're the greatest 
by Terry Shields He is certainly the all-time Notre material for a story. Somehow an Alabama halfback might call the Notre Dame basketball team Observer Sports Editor Dame scorer, too. none of this quite expresses mine home, but it had a certain order was mentioned. This was when One could write the typical and, hopefully, the entire cam­to it. Most important of all was Austin spoke most easily. "My Writing something about "he's really a great guy" type of pus' feeling towards Mr. Austin that Carr looked very com­best experiences at Notre Dame Austin Carr should be the easiest thing also. G. Carr. -fortable in the tiny cubicle. have come with the members of assignment a reporter should Austin looked kind of tired and the team. We are real friends.
And then there's always the Even his name has a certain ever get. It's a simple enough future. After all, wasn't Austin mystique or majesty about it. who wouldn't be with the We're together. It helped a lot task for a rookie reporter to just picked as the first man to get He's not the Big "A" or the Big demanding schedule he has to having guys like this on the team, 
complete, let alone a seasoned drafted in the NBA? Surely that "C." Nobody ever hung a keep. There's always a banquet especially on road trips or if one old veteran who is about to retire. would make an easy story. (By nickname on him like Pistol Pete or assembly at which he must of us would feel 'down' in prac­All one really has to do is throw the way, don't believe those trade or Rocket Rick. It was always speak, or practice for the sport at tice. They are part of my best in a few stats like "he is the fifth which he excells. Around all of memories from this place.
rumors. Austin and Cleveland simply Austin Carr. It stands 

leading scorer in collegiate are quite happy with one alone, proud and powerful. Cecil this he must find some time to be Overall I was satisfied with ND history with 2,560 points (even another.) a student. It's enough to get and they helped, even though
B. DeMille couldn't have cast a 

though he missed eleven games there were some times when I
Yes, it's true that all of this heroes name any better than that anyone down. 
during his sophomore season)." would make excellent copy Trying to get away quickly doubted my choice of schools."
of Austin Carr. 

without bothering him too long, I The feeling of team members is
It was one of the big thrills ofTerry Sh1eIds ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, my career yesterday afternoon to fired out a few quick questions. obviously mutual. Maybe Doug 
What" did you think of the Gemmell said it best when he
go and talk to Austin. It was a 

season in general ? Austin stated, "All Austin has to do isshort but exciting experience. 
He lives in a small single in doesn't hesitate, "To me the say 'let's go!' and you feel like Sorin Hall basement. It certainly season was a success. Any season jumping right through the 
with 20 victories against the kind ceiling " 
can't be compared to something



The Irish Eye 

of schedule we play has to be a Austin Carr's career at Notre success. We had our enjoyable Dame is now history. For four moments like at Kentucky and years he thrilled the student body . the UCLA game. Personally I by performing on the basketball 
couldn't have asked for anything court as if it were a work of art Dear Mom and Dad, better. Everything seemed to fall and he was "the master." Since I haven't written you all year, I thought I'd take advantage of in place for me. I was just Right now I feel sort of futile 
my last opportunity to send something in the printed word back home. disappointed that we couldn't go trying to describe this man. You 
I have to say that this has been quite a four years here. I've been farther in the tournament." have to meet him yourself and be , able to witness and report on some of the greatest events in Notre He looked sincere when he confronted by that warming Dame sports history. spoke yet he thought out what he smile to understand that, above 
Just yesterday afternoon "Dyno" and I walked over to The Stadium said quite extensively (probably all, Austin Carr is a person. to reminisce some of the great moments over four years of football. stemming from the many in­At the end of the interview this When I listened real close I could hear Frank Crozier's golden throat terviews he's gone through over became most evident. I could 
his career). Looking at him it identify with him. He's a young
bellowing things like ... "Hanratty to Seymour for the touchdown ... Theismann around end for a first down ... the tackle by Olson and wasn't hard to imagine Austin as man with a lot of big decisions to McCoy ... Gatewood takes the ball to Pitt's five yard line ... the a little kid not too many years make in the next few weeks and conversion by Hempel was successful ... final score, Notre Dame 48, back. One could just imagine a he can't envision too far into the Purdue 0." gang of ten year olds dribbling a future. . When I listened real close I could even hear the typewriters clinging ball on an asphalt court in DC. As I got up to leave we shook In the press box. I was getting a little shaky standing there on the field Even then there was probably hands and I mentioned that this and hearing this so I went over to the Convo for peace and safety. But that one youngster with his shirt would be my last story and that once again I heard things. "Basket by Bob Whiiittt-more •.. A steal by tail hanging out who just wouldn't I'd be graduating in May. Austin Murphy ... Arnzen hits again ... O'Connell attempting one and a 
miss when he took a shot at the displayed that friendly smile and 
bonus ... Basket-Catlett ... and that was Austin Carr." hoop. said "Yeah, I'm kind of looking Austin thought those early toward that too."
Folks, I sure do have a lot of dynamite memories from these years. 

years were the most important of To some Austin Carr willLast night at the basketball banquet illustrates Notre Dame's role in his career. He said, "Learning always be a great bas~etballthe sports world. Moose Krause presented All-America awards to two the fundamentals at an early age player but nothing more.· I'm notof the outstanding performers in collegiate sports. Joe Theismann and probably helped me more than quite sure how to describe him.
Austin Carr are fine examples of the university. They and all of their anything." All I know is that if I ever have ateammates are the greatest. I just wish I could thank each and No interview with Austin Carr son his name will be Austin. Itevery one f?r the thrills and excitement they've provided me. 

would be truly complete unless has something special about it. 
. But the thm~ about Notre Dame athletics is that it doesn't quit with JUSt these maJor sports. I've found out a lot about desire and other intangibles by covering the minor sports where there is no bonus • contract or ~ven temporal glory. All there is for a Bengal boxer or a 


John Pleick IS a person
rugger or a first baseman or anyone else involved in the athletic scene at Notre Dame on these minor scales is the pride and satisfaction of .. knowing that something has been accomplished to the best of one's by E.J. Kinkopf profile like I was supposed to do. Collis or any of his teammates.. 
ability. No, there's been far too much "He's very unselfish and gave But mom and dad, sports isn't all I've learned about for these four When I first went to John of that already. Far too much everything hehe had to help. But I years. I've learned a lot about people. I'd just like to mention a few Pleick's room to interview him he glory worship of stats and the did sense a feeling of regret and a that have helped me with The Observer and to make this page was busy giving a friend a record book. Far too much tinge of bitterness towards Notre 
possible. haircut. Actually it was more like emphasis placed on winning. Far Dame about John. And he can't First of all there is my loyal and dependable staff. Vic Dorr and Joe a shave. The victim kept bab­too much stereotyping of athletes be blamed for that. Passiatore are just freshmen but I often felt that their stuff was good bling something about how good as gladiators places in an arena The John Pleick I talked with enough to put me out of a job at any moment. Bruce Kennedy also air and sunshine are for the to entertain. And not enough seemed to be a very sensibitive showed some writing talent and he'll be back next year since he's a scalp. And believe me, with the recognition of these guys as men, person. Not brash or loud, but a 
soph right now. J.W. Findling is the guy on my staff that I most ad­amount of hair that was left on and students just like you and little shy, quiet and introspective. mired. He came as a senior knowing that there was no room for ad­his head, he could get plenty of me. A person who is a little unsure of vanc~ment. He just ~anted to write. sports and he did an excellent job. both in a darkened vacuum. I think John Pleick realizes this himself. And perhps made that 
I don t know w.hY his mom calls him a frustrated sportswriter. Last John was laughing, and having more than anyone else. way because of us. but not least Is the lucky (?) guy who takes over my job. Jim a good time practicing the art of You see, John Pleick has been .. John Pleick is not a great Donaldson was always there when I needed a story most and rm sure hair styling. Since this was my shuffled around and lost in the basketball pl;:tyer. And I doubt · he'll improve the page. Best of all, he's only a sophomore! first interview assignment I left shower of superlatives bestowed that he'll ever achieve that tag. 
~ther pe?ple have made it ~asy for me up here. My former bosses, with the hopes of talking to John on the magic of Austin, the But he is a good player, one who M1ke Pavlm and Terr.y O'~ell, t~ught me quite a bit (at least they later, in a more subdued at­consistency of Collis and the gives 100 percent every second taught '?e how to avoid an •r.ate JOCk). Then there is the long list of mosphere. wizardry of Jackie. he's on the floor. But more that producho~ people w~o help ~nghten up the boring chores of layout and· Well, after waiting twenty-four John Pleick didn't make a that, he's a person, a real live proofreadmg. The mght editors were great for putting up with me. hours I finally got in touch with place for himself in the record human being who feels joy and Th.anks Don, John, Jim, Ann, Mary Chris, and Davey. All my other John yesterday morning. He books. He'll soon be forgotten pain, and suffers with defeat and editors who seek the real important advice from me (like which bowl really didn't want to be in­because he couldn't dribble mistakes. we're going to) also win a glad hand. Glen, T.C., Jeanne, Ed, Bill and terviewed, but I pestered him behind his back, hit a fall'away No, I don't want to portray Dave, thank you all. into granting me fifteen minutes jumper from the corner or lead a John Pleick as a martyr, but 
of his time. fast break down the floor.
There is no way in the world I could ever forget all of those beautiful rather as an example that justifying typists (yes, even you Harold). A very special thanks to I went into the interview with He'll be forgotten because he athletes like John, Collis, Sid, Amy, Robyn, Sue, Deb, Jim and the whole group. I just hope I haven't the standard questions and came played with the likes of Austin Austin and all the rest in every 
out with the standard answers. Carr and Collis Jones.
left anybody out. If so, thanks to you. sport do not want your worship or 
And I suppose I could tell you, He'll be forgotten because his pity. The want recognition
I thin~ what ~·m try.ing to say most, mom and dad, was what Johnny as 
and very easily at that, how he job was setting picks in the
D~ said ea~he~ tomght at the basketball banquet. Talking to the men who are struggling,
felt about the season, his future sweating, achieving...and
semo~s he said, I thank all of you for the great years you've given us, double stack and boxing out the of­
plans and all the little things that opponents best rebounder on the tentimes failing.
but I JUSt want you to know that Notre Dame will be just as good next 

make interesting but superficila boards.
year without you." He was right.Itdoesn't matter who it is, the best of Perhaps it is too late for the us can come and go and we'll be forgotten but Notre Dame will go on reading. He'll be forgotten because his John Pleick of the Class of 1971 to 
But most of that stuff has been job was work. It was un­
without us and she won't ever be forgotten. be respected like that. But it's 
said before. The of the

Remember that! I hope all of my readers who have suffered through names spectacular yet necessary. definitely not too late for us to 
this sentimental stuff will. subjects are just changed. He'll be forgotten because the realize ... and change.
Besides, I didn't want to bury only time the fans acknowledgedI guess I'm about ready to close. Say hi t() Kathy and Mickey for me. 
Congratulations on three fineJohn further into that jock image his prescence was when he madeAsk brother Bud to pick up some tickets for the Pirate opener cause I years of var~ity competition

that is hung on every athlete that a mistake.
think I'm coming home. 
John, and good luck in the future. 

Thanks for everything mom and dad. attends this university. I couldn't He'll be forgotten because so Perhaps someday people willbe fair to the John Pleick I met by many failed to realize that what respect you for who you are... not •
Your son, running a series of quates and he did was also important. 
what you should have been.

Terry. ideas. Or by whipping off a quick He isn't bitter towards Austin, 
March 31. 1971

_P_a...:;:.ge_8______~-=--=:-:~---------TJIZ O.&SZRVER. ~ 

Nixon to hik~e G I PULLOUT RATE 
~~~~~-~..-.~ 
A t 
' · 
'f f fYAC HTI NG '6 
-•'i :SUMMER 
• 

tPOSITIONS 
The American Yachting Associai tion with listings on the East fCoast, West Coa5t, Gulf Areal ' and the Great Lakes is solicitin~ t for summer crew applicants. ' 
Positions are available fort 
experienced as well as inexperi­t 

enced male and female collegeffstudents and graduates. Experi­tence in cooking and child careA Amay be particularly helpful. t' ' Crewing affords one the SAN CLEMENTE, Calif. (UP!) 
-President Nixon will announce 
on April 7 that the American 
withdrawal from South Vietnam 
will proceed at or faster than the current withdrawal rate of 12,500 troops per month, the White 
House said Tuesday. 
Despite some disappointment expressed by ranking Nixon advisers over the performance of South Vietnamese forces in their recent Laotian operation, Press Secretary Ronald Ziegler said 
there had been no change in the outlook the President gave last week of a continuation of the 
American withdrawal at least at the current rate. "The President will be com­pleting his assessment of the 
situation in South Vietnam this week," Ziegler said_ "His 
decision regarding the next reduction of U.S. forces in South Vietnam will be based on an estimation of future enemy ac­tivitv in the area __ . the imoact of 
the Laotian operation and ·finally the ability of the South Viet­namese forces to continue to assume a greater share of the responsibility in South Viet­nam." 
The President had earlier indicated he would disclose the next troop withdrawal plan on PApril15, but Ziegler said he had decided to move up the date so as to avoid the Easter recess of 
opportunity to earn reasonable,_,------.,..,..,,...,...._____,__~~Congress. He will make it in an sums while engaged in pleasant M I D w EsT'S LA R G -E_S_T__D_I_S_P_L.~-Y--0-F---~­

foutdooractivity. 1 NEW' AND USED SPORTS CARS 
T apply type a 1 page.

'0
f~esume following as closely asf 19 7'1 FIATS The driver's Car 
possible the form shown below. A In April your resume will be' 

Aedited, printed and sent to' .. fapproximately 1500-2500

~~~:;s~ing on area) large craftt 

RESUME FORM-(1) name, f der $2294~ p.o. ·l ' ~~~~;s~u~~~~:ge~n(~) ~~~e~~~i CONTINENTAL MOTORS INC.
t twork or recre.ational experience; f 58DO S. LA IGRANGE RD. LA GRANGE ILL. 352-920 
Critically I(3) dates available and ar:ea(s); f~~~"'~~~~..,~..,-""~~...,_.,~#. playwright Israel Horovitz will '(4) 2 or more students wrshmg ~ M . L 1,appear before the Sophomore 
t
to work t<:>ge.ther, state .name of '~ o_ther part res, (5) other mforma-~ 
ron. t ~ Sen~ your resume with $6 ' ~ 
process1~g fee to: . ~ An:errcan Yachtrng Associatiol-~ Su1te 503, 8730 Sunset Blvd. ~

I
Los Angeles, California 90069 f~ Your resume must be received ~t fno later than April 15, 1971. f 111.: 
~ f ~ 

, ____.. ______
t 
ornsey oan Fund 
We are closing April th
20 
All Outstanding Loans must be paid by then. 

~~~~~~!!tl!!!~~~~~~(_-Plum have played in over 500 

We're your 

SUMMER SliiRT HEAD QUARTERS 
W~'ve got them by the dozens ... short sleeves, long sleeves 
kmts,. wash and. wears, patterns, stripes, solids in a wid~ 
st~lectwn of colormgs, riverboats and many more. Stop in .. .it's 
1me. 

NEW FLARES ARRIVE 
We have a brand new shipment of flares in bright new colors and styles. We give you what you ask for. 


BEACH WEAR 1971 
ready for the action ... stop by and see what's new for the ch scene. Famous names, top qualit.y, modest prices. 
~uy •lOW and pay: 

ONI·THIRD IN JUNI 
ONI-THIRD IN JULY 

ONI-THIRD IW AUGUST 
No carrvinll charge.'! nddea. 
Off,THE CAMPUS ••• NOTU DAM& 

.address to the nation ftom' his Oval Office in the White House. 
The announcement will project troop withdrawals after May 1 when the U.S. troop ceiling wilt 
be 549,000 men, -down about 265,000 from January, 1969, when Nixon took office. 
Ziegler would give no in­dication of the specifics of the President's announcement and or whether he planned to leave a residual force in South Vietnam. 

MOONEY'S Pranksters 

Mooney's Merry Pranksters proudly announces its National Holiday Celebration in LaFor­
tune Ballroom at 11:00 p.m.
Wednesday night. All the gang will be in attendance music balloons and the count' down t~ midnight--April Fool's Day. One
request--please, if academics are not too pressing, we'd like as many people as possibl to attend. P' ~ase, too, bring your own food dnd beverage to facilitate fun and games. 
Let a little steam off in our student center on Wednesday nite. Start our new year now, on 
April I with a social atmosphere conducive to fun, frolicle--and pranking. 
Bring a friend, tell a friend­
A truly momentous occassion. 
PRANK ON. 
Paret hosts kick -off 

Roger 0. Paret, Notre Dame alumnus and candidate for the fourth district councilman Democratic nomination will host an open house in his home 917 Whitehall Drive on Friday April 2nd from 8:00p.m. to 11:0 p.m. 
He cordially invites the public to this "kick off" for his cam­paign_ 



Playwright Horovitz talks 
"P B k C ' 
on ost ec 
acclaimed 

~, Liter.ary Fest.ival.audience this ~ evenmg at 8 pm m Washington~'Hall. 
'~ Author of a number of award 
~~winning stage and television ., plays as well as a director of two ~major films, including TheI Strawben-y Statement, Mr. 
'Horovitz' topic will be "Post­~Becket Comedy." 
lllll Two of Mr. Horovitz' early 
'1111 
plays, The Indian Wants the 
Bronz and It's Called the Sugar 
theaters in at least thirteen countries since their opening during the 1967-68 season in New York. 
Mr. Horovitz was born in Wakefield, Massachusetts in 


Director to recetve Atomic Energy Citation 
et omedy' 
1939. He was educated in Boston and studied on a fellowship at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London from 1961 to 1963. While in England in 1965, he became the first American to be chosen Playwright-in-Residence with the 
Royal Shakespeare Company. 
Among the awards his plays have merited him are the Jersey Journal Award, the Vernon Rice Drama Desk Award, the OBIE 

-award (twice) and the Show 
Business Grand Award as Best American Playwright.

A frequent contributor to Look magazine, the New York SundayTimes and Craft Horizons magazine, Horovitz is a Professor of Playwriting at New 
York University and Playwright-in-Residence at City College of New York.  is the  
•  

Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg, Chair­man of the Atomic Energy Commission, announced last week that Professor Milton Burton, Dii·ector of the University of Notre Dame Radiation Laboratory, has been selected to receive the Com­mission's Citation for out­standing contributions to the U.S. atomic energy programs. 
Commissioner Wilfrid E. 

Johnson will present the award to 
Professor Burton at Notre Dame 
on March 12th. 

The United States Atomic Energy Commission Citation established August 17 1960, consists of a gold medal' and ~ parchment scroll signed by the Chairman and members of the Atomic Energy Commission; the General Manager or the Director of Regulation, or both. The Citation may be granted to in­dividuals, other than AEC em­ployees, or groups for exemplary participation in, or for meritorious contributions to the United States nuclear prog;am. 
ND Dining Halls currently seeking volunteer hostesses to greet Notre Dame men as they arrive for our Hawaiian Night ninner on April 17. Please call 283---725:1 during office hours for info. 



