
it was good while it lasted! chance of rain, high 60; rain tonite, low 40 


serving the notre dome-st. mary's community
Vol. VL No. 47 Tuesday, November 16, 1971 

Blues Festival-a financial loss 
by Bob Higgins 
The Student Union suffered a $6000 loss on the Midwest Blues Festival held on campus during the past weekend, Bob Brinkman announced yesterday. 
Brinkman, the Cultural Arts Com­missioner, attributed the loss to a number of factors. Citing the fact that he "had anticipated a loss of $2000 to $3000 and perhaps as much as $5000," the program director emphasized that he did not feel that conflicting events caused the poor turnout. 
Brinkman mentioned publicity as at least one of the factors in the festival's failure. He felt that "Mimy people were unaware of the quality of a lot of the performers, especially Howling Wolf." 
Scheduling a performance for Sunday afternoon instead of Sunday evening was another mistake, the Com­missioner added. 
Student Union Director Bill McGrath ·and Asociate CAC Commissioner Tom 
Vannucci agreed with Brinkman's 
appraisal of the reason for the lack of 
success of the Festival. 
McGrath called the effect of other 
events on campus "minimal," em­
phasizing the fact that the largest 
crowd gathered in Stepan Center on 
Saturday night when the Blues Festival 
was in direct competition with the Fifth 
Dimension Concert. 
Vannucci and McGrath both felt that 
publicity was good noting that every 
college within 300 miles was contacted, 
but both were disappointed with the ou­
of-town turnout. 
The Associate Commissioner felt that 
the primary reason for the lack of 
enthusiasm on the campus was that 
"Students here are not well acquainted 
with the Blues, they are more rock­
oriented." He also pointed out that the 
cost may have been prohibitive to 
some. 
In reaction to questions about the cost 
of the Festival, Brinkman asserted that 
the endeavor was "possibly too good." 
He mentioned as possibilities for the 
Practical applications block SMC parietals 

There are no comflicts over the philosophy of the St. Mary's Hall Parietal hours proposal---due to be presented at tonight's Student Affairs Council meeting---only the practical applications, according to SMC Student Body President Kathy Barlow. 
The proposal, presented at the last Student Af­fairs Council meeting, revolves around two major rights of the residents, according to Miss Barlow. 
The two rights, she claimed, are the right of one woman to determine her own life style and the right of another woman to privacy, which would include freedom from possible embarassment and ex­cessive noise. 
Darlene Galina, co-sponsor of the proposal, pointed out the possibility of conflict in the in­terpretations of these rights. 
"Such differences can only be resolved within a system that promotes personal, mature dealings among women who live as neighbors in the dor­mitory," she commented. 
Miss Barlow noted a recent parietal survey, which showed the majority of student opinion favoring a great increase in the amount of parietal hours as justification for increasing hours. 
Each dorm, she said, has a differend physical set­up, and necessitates the general policy of allowing each hall determining its own hours. 
Placing parietals jurisdiction on the halls will increase the snese of community, Miss Barlow stated, and make the dorms places to live, as well as to drop books. 
future the reduction of the overall scope of the Festival, and consequently a reduction in ticket prices or reducing 
the number of days from three to two. 
Brinkman, McGrath and Vannucci all drew a comparison between the fates of the Blues Festival and the Collegiate Jazz Festival held here every spring. The Union Director pointed out that "The CJF lost money in the first few years, but it now operates with a profit." 
Brinkman commented that the CJF is. now known as one of the best festivals of its kind in the country and essentially that is the task of the Midwest Blues Festival. ''It needs to build up a reputation in surrCJunding states," he said. 
McGrath and Brinkman em­phatically denied rumors to the effect that the Sophomore Literary Festival would have to be cancelled because of the loss suffered on the Blues Festival. They cited an emergency fund com­posed of money in the original budget not doled out to any specific Com­mission plus a substantial contribution from St. Mary's, as funds sufficient enough to cover the loss. 
The umon Director did predict, 
however, that "we will be tightening up 
our commission," and Brinkman 
expressed the opm10n that his com­
mission "might have to add a fund­
raising film." 
Confronted with the question of the Blues Festival's fate in the coming years, all three expressed hopes that it will be retained as a Cultural Arts Commission function. McGrath believed that "with the shutdown of the Ann Arbor Blues Festival, the possibilities are tremendous in tfie next few years." 
Brinkman asserted that "although it's not up to me, I would hope this would continue in the coming years." 
Kathy Barlow 
No fundamental conflict in philosophy ... 
One of the reasons hall communities are not well formed, she added, is because the decision making process was kept from them. 
"The whole point," Miss Gallina said, "is that the people who are directly affected by the whole thing should be the ones making the decisions." 
If the proposal is passed by the SAC the proposal must go before the Board of Trustees or a meeting of its Executive Board. 
Howlin' Wolf 
A great show, but it cost .•. 
Fund swamped by hall requests 
by Ed Ellis Observer Associate Editor 
A variety of requests ranging from hallway carpeting in Holy Cross Hall to coffee and donuts in Sorin brought the total money requested by the halls from the student government Student Life Fund Committee to $26,819.15, according to committee chairman Fritz Hoefer. 
The total available to the halls amounted to $10,000, and the committee made its final allocations in a closed meeting last night. In the process, the committee cut almost $17,000.00 from the requests. The Committee, Hoefer said, plans to reveal the allocations to the eighteen halls which put in requests and to the public at the Hall President's Council meeting tonight. 
Committee member and Stay Senator T.C.Treanor said that the funds were distributed "to satisfy the most urgent needs first." The Committee, according to Treanor, gave first priority to "questions of hall livability." 
"We wanted generally to make the halls better places in which to live," Treanor said, "and in some of them it was so noisy you couldn't even sleep." This specific criteria, Treanor said, was used in the case of Holy Cross, the only hall on campus without carpetry in its hallways. 
The second priority, Treanor said, was to assure halls of "func­tional study rooms." According to Hoeffer, many halls requested money for study rooms, including Badin, Breen-Phillips, and Dillon. 
The third major priority was that of functional lounges. Halls requesting money for lounges include Stanford, Fisher, Zahm, and Farley. 
Farley Hall presented a comprehensive plan to develop a section of their basement that was recently vacated by the Biology Department. 
Several other priorities included academic and social programs for the hall, attractive, rather than functional, study and recreation rooms, and hall government offices. None of these criteria were used, however, since limited funds required funding for only the first three criteria. 
In assessing the validity of the requests, members of the com­mittee visited the halls inquestion. According to Stay Senator Jim Clarke, the committee visited Zahm, Farley, B-P, Howard, Morrissey, Walsh, St. Ed's, Lyons, and a few others. 
According to John Drost, Off-Campus Commissioner, the com­mittee "was forced to cut $17,000 from the requests, only $4,000 of which you could say was really totally unnecessary." 
In addition to the dispersal of the $10,000, the committee found some questionable University space utilization procedures. In Fisher Hall, there are what Hall President Carmen Maciarello described as "three big doubles on the second, third, and fourth floors" which are used for visiting faculty and priests. Maciarello feels that these rooms, which he says are unoccupied most of the. year, should be turned into lounges. He says these are badly needed in Fisher, since it is a hall composed mostly of singles. Right now, the hall has no control over these rooms, according to Maciarello. 
Holy Cross hall is the only hall without carpeting on the hallways. According to members of the committee, this results in a noisy atmosphere. The hall has never been carpeted because it belongs to the C.S.C. order, and neither the University nor the order is willing to pay to carpet it. 

_Policy defended 
Meal checking continues 
by Jodi Campbell 
The incidences of meal­validation forgery appears to have decreased, but the current policy of checking numers will continue "indefinately," ac­cording to food services director Edmund T. Price. 
"We're not getting too much abuse since we began checking into it," Price said. 
The crackdown, according to Price, is designed to protect the interest of the "paying student." 
Those using forged stickers are
"cheating their fellow students, not me, because it isn't my money," Price said. The price of board is !290 per semester, Price said, adding that when the food service lost money they would have to "either increase rates or decrease their services." 
Most of the meal-card violation, Price speculated, is done by off-campus students. 
and off cah!!'llS students in order to obtain the forgtd stickers. 
Under the current policy, if a student is caught with someone else's ID, the ID will be con­fiscated and sent to the Dean's office. The owner must pay a fine of $10 before the University will return his ID. Price reported that he has accepted some ex­cuses for the use of someone else's ID but "if it is an out and out fraud I don't fool around with them." 
St. Mary's students haven't been suing forged co-exchange tickets according to Price. The proble~ would be more l~kely to arise on the St. Mary s end, because more Notre Dame students than St. Mary's students desire co-exchange tickets. 
Price concluded by stating that the food service is looking for some other means of validating student ID's that would make the ID more difficult to copy. So far, food services has not decided on any particular model. 

.·.·······································:·:·:•:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
· ··~·~·~··············································-·-·····-·············and 2:30 in the afternoon and 
The organizers of the charity 
basketball game pitting the Notre Dame varsity against the fresh­man squad need student volunteers. The volunteers are needed to take tickets, man the ·concession stands usher, and 
distribute the g~ds that are 
collected 
The donated items will be 
distributed on Tuesday, 
November 23. The goods are to 

~re~ecul~edth~·~~~bed~ri~~~w~l=~~d2
to be some collusion" between on 

PIDLLY CLUB 
Thanks giving Bus Round trip $35 
Reservations must be made before Nov. 17 
for info or Reservations call Ri ch 1658 


ClASSICAl 

Notre Dame 
Bookstor~ 
The Observer'"is published dailY during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
student drivers who would be willing to deliver the goods are needed. Interested drivers should contact Jim Brogan at 8451. 
Also, students who cannot attend the game, but who are willing to donate canned food, used clothing, toys, etc. can drop the goods off at the student goverrnment office Wenesday through Monday from l:oo until 

Orpheus in the Underworld 
Friday, Saturday, Sunday Evenings 
November 19, 20, 21 
Morris Civic Auditorium 
A comic opera with an all-city cast. Sponsored by the Michiana Arts and Science Council. 
Tickets: $4, $3, $2 Available at box office 

s_:=o=o·==========d=======================~
-;: 


...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 

Indiana Bell 

Tuesday, November 16, 1971 THE OBSERVER. 
United Nations, N.Y.-In a policy statement marking his country's formal entry into the United Nations, China's chief delegate Chiao 
Kuan-Hua said that the affairs of the world body must be handled by all members instead of by the superpowers. He also said that China's on campus todayentry was a defeat for the United States and the government of


vvorld 

Premier Eisaku Sato of Japan. Washington Gen. Creighton W. Abrams, the American Com­mander in South Vietnam, has been told to plan of tentative force 4:JO.. Iecture, mr. thomas wolfe, russia:
briefs 

reductions that would bring the level of U.S. troops IN Vietnam today and the future, library auditorium down to between 30,000 and 55,000 men by mid -summer. 7:00 & 9: 00--film, love affair, engineering 
auditorium

1!171 New York Times New Delhi -Prime Minister Indira tillandi asked a hawkish Indian 
8: oo..lecture, gourmet touch and en­

Parliament for patience in order to allow western leaders a chance to 
tertaining, stapleton lounge, le mans

calm the confrontation with Pakistan by persuading the Pakistani government to reach a settlement with the Bengali Nationalists in East Pakistan. nd-smc 
Washington-The commerce department reported that the balance of payments reached record deficits in the third quarter. Much of the huge deficit reflected an outflow of dollars prior to President Nixon's announcement on Aug. 15 of his new economic policy. 
PRE-LAW SOCIETY

Use of hard drugs rare on ND ca~npus 
James D. Hall, Patent 
by John Wick 
"Very few people" on the Notre Dame campus have used cocaine or any other "hard" narcotic during the past two years, ac­
cording  to  Ed  Prezioso,  Vice­ 
Chairman of the Student  Drug  
Information Center.  

He said that the use of cocaine, LSD, and mescaline is "indeed" on the rise, but contended that the drugs were "difficult to acquire," a factor which, he says, tends to "keep the numbers of people using the drugs down." "Also," he said, "they are quite ex­pensive for the college student and is very dangerous to tran­sport." 
Prezioso also said that there were rumors of a "very small amount" of heroin on campus. However, he contended that heroin is "not very popular" with students as a whole. According to Prezioso, college students generally have "more knowledge" of the dangers in­volved in its usage than non­students. 
According to Prezioso, South Bend heroin has passed through "so many hands" in order to get here that "you have no idea what you may be purchasing." "Very few people know" how many ND students use drugs, according to Tom Tollaksen of the Drug In · formation Center. "A that you see on the quad may say that so per cent of the students smoke up on weekends." He contended that this notion was "false." 
Tollaksen said that the number of requests at the Center are down "significantly" this fall from the autumn of last year. He refused to speculate whether this is "merely a cycle," since, he said, the Center has only been open for one year. 
There will "definitely" be more drug usage in February and March than there whas been this fall, according to Tollaksen. He said that during the fall football season the games, the concerts and the weather keep people away from the dorms. Tollaksen predicted that the "coming cold and depressing winter months" would restrict the students to the dorms and an atmosphere which is, he said, more "conducive" to drug usage. He also predicted that the freshmen would by then have an "increased exposure to drugs" and would be more likely to use them. 
According to Prezioso, 
***************** 

marijuana consumption has increased. "People smoke marijuana here now like they drank_ beer here ten years ago," he satd. He contended that the students know that smoking is illegal, but they simply lock their doors. "They don't want to be caught.'' 
Tollaksen said that since the Student Drug Center opened last NovP.mber until May of that year, over 600 people came for in­formation or just to "rap". Prezioso added that the Center's purpose is "to educate the people who come to them.'' He said that 
Attention: 
Attorney will speak it was an opportunity for the 
about Patent Law 7:30 students to come and talk about· 
Wed. Nov. 17 127 drug usage. Chairman Tollaksen Niewland. said that come the second ......-----------f· semester, the Information Center ND-lS U Football would find a new location because of what he saw as a lack of "visibility" in the present one Friday, Nov. 19 Pep on the first floor of the library. 
Rally Cocktail Party 
6:30pm· Royal Sonesta 
.CALIFORNIANS 
Hotel
X-Mas Round Trip LA or SF $118 
Saturday, Nov. 20 Bus7·8 Tues. 16-Thurs. 18th Transportation to BatonRm 1-D La Fortune Rouge for the gameTony 7865-Rick 1753 


Campus Musicians 

Any Group or lndivid ual interested in playing at Social Commission events please mail the 
foil owing in form ati on 
name, address, ph one no. typ e of m u sic p ri ce ( i f an y) 
to: Joe Prochaska 
S.V. Social Commission Box 639 Notre Dame, Ind. or deliver to Social Commission offi<:e 4th floor of La Fortune. 

Cultural Arts Commission Performing Arts Series 
presents the 




midwest premier 
of 

THE OPEN THEATER'S MUTATION SHOW 
-first prize winner at the Belgrade International Theater Festival 
· "They are particularly good at depicting scenes of in­stitutional interviews where privacy and dignity are violated as a routine matter." VILLAGE VOICE 
" unforgettable sequence of simply executed images." SATURDAY REVIEW 
·" a moving artistic experience. It will offer different things 
to different people, but should leave no one untouched." 
NEW YORK TIMES 
Admission $1.50 
Performing Arts Series Patrons $.75 
Nov. 16 O'Laughlin Auditorium 

8:30 PM 

For What It's Worth 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Dr. Geoffrey

Editor-in-Chief, Glen S. Corso Assistant Editor 
Assistant Editor All successful newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend 
Don Ruane

Advertising Manager 
Rosiness Manager anyone or anything if they can help 
Jim Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they . tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Business: 283-7 4 71 News: 283-1715 



Pass it! 
Once burned, twice shy, the old cliche goes. It's true though: most people who try to convince others that the idea they have, an idea that is always the greatest idea that absolutely ever was, and who get turned down, usually don't try again. 
Likewise with those who watch associates push an idea they agree with and watch these same associates be refused, flatly. That's why it's so encouraging to see the St. Mary's Student Government push a policy that is rapidly fading into obscurity over at Notre Dame. 
The policy is remarkably similar to one that the honorable John Barkett, Notre Dame Student Body President, and the eminent Theodore M. Hesburgh, vicar of all Notre Dame have publicly proclaimed that they are sick of talking about. 
The entire Parietals issue, one suspects, has died an unmourned death among the Notre Dame Student body as well. 
That the St. Mary's Student Government, under the leadership of Kathy Barlow, should be trying to get a policy past that has already been rejected by Notre Dame's Privy Council is both remarkable and welcome. It's remarkable because St. Mary's traditionally has a history of being even more reactionary than Notre Dame---if that's possible. Welcome because the St. Mary's people are displaying strong initiative in refusing to follow Notre Dame's lead in dropping the entire affair. We said earlier that we didn't think the parietals issue was worth discussing any more---the parietals issue at Notre Dame that is. The Trustees, screech and holler as they may about violations, obviously have no intentions of following through with strict enforcement. 
The only hours allowed at St. Mary's presently are on Sunday afternoon--­skimpy fare indeed. They are the same hours for every hall on campus, regar­dless of what the particular residents want. 
That's one of the reasons the St. Mary's proposal is a good one---it allows the halls to determine their own hours---without having them imposed from above. It's a good proposal and it should be passed. We think the members of the Student Affairs Council should do so. 
Letters 

of The Observer staff to her 
Rick Smith, without whose
cabinet also so that she will 
diligent and conscientious
Editor: receive coverage in the future. 
assistance our attempts at in­
To The Observer Editorial 

formation dissemination on the
Staff: Gary J. Caruso 
ND-SMC campuses would have
The Student's Responsibility SMC Student Assembly 
been much more difficult, if not
Proposal (better known as the Representative-at-Large 
entirely futile.

"Parietal Proposal") will be 
The final tally of moneys
either accepted or rejected this 
collected has risen to $2,548.49.
coming Tuesday, November 16, 
This figure represents all the ND­
by the Student Affairs Council at 
SMC residence halls, donations
SMC. Since Darlene Fallina, 
received from off-campus
Mary Kay Tobin, and I drew up 
students when university
this proposal, it is our hope that 
directories were oftained, the
The Observer will give this issue 
selfless gifts of anonymous
front page exposure urging 
donors, and at least one Notre
November 9, 1971
students to attend the meeting. 
Dame professor whose check was
This proposal not only is 
for a staffering amount. In ad­
Letter to the Editor
significant to SMC students, it 
dition, the figure includes $455.52
THE OBSERVER
will help play a part in the 
which was donated by the many
University of Notre Dame
mergered student affairs policy 
people who attended Friday
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556
after the unification. A large turn 
night's CAT STEVENS CON­
out will certainly impress Sr. 
CERT. Don Moony, Student
Friends:
Alma who chairs the council. 
Union Social Commissioner,
Unlike the poor leadership at 

deserves many thanks for
I would like to take this op­

ND, St. Mary's SBP Kathy 
arranging the collection at the
portunity to thank the many
Barlow has done a terrific job in 
concert.

people who aided in the collection 
not only presenting the proposal, 
All concerned can be assured
for Pakistan Relief on November
but in making the members of the 
that their donations will be ex­
3rd. This would include the un­
council realize that individual 
pedited to an international and
precedented coverage by THE
responsibility and self deter­
reliable relief organization. Last
OBSERVER of the situation in
mination (not the college or the 
minute decisions are now
Pakistan-Inida and of the
trustees) should govern a 
finalizing the designation of one
collection campaign which was
student's life. 
such organization. The funds
attempted at Notre Dame. Our
It is unfortunate that your 

represent a meager, but helpful,
sincere appreciation is expressed 
newspaper (notice I didn't say 
assist in the alleviation of
to approxiamtely 130 students
the "students' newspaper") has 
deprivation and starvation in that
who took time on that evening to
continually exposed John Barkett 
Asian sector.

solicit funds for the relief effort
and his opinions while ignoring 
Again, our thanks to everyone
from the resident student body
the more forceful, sensative, and 
concerned.

and to the studnets who denied
sincere Kathy Barlow. I 
themselves some for of pleasure
therefore call for equal time for 
Yours for Peace,

by donating money.
Miss Barlow to express her views 
Thomas S. Hamilton
My particular thanks to Mssrs:

on campus issues, and I hope that 
Pakistan Relief Center
Glen Corso, T.C.Treanor, and
Miss Barlow would appoint some 
Professor Syed J. Iqbal Geoffrey has been in and out of campus news the last seven months with his charges of discriminatory hiring practices against St. Mary's and Notre Dame. His basic claim ~s that they have refused to hire or even consider him for an academic, ad­ministrative or executive position on the basis of his race and creed. 
The Pakistan native says he is aBlack Muslim, Semite and direct descendent of the prophet Muhammed. He also claims to be more qualified and deserving than any appointee at Notre Dame in the last four years. On his list of credentials, which is almost as long as the credit card strand in the American Express commercial, are : qualified accountant, author, art historian, published poet, economist, management consultant, holder of the equivalent of three PhD's, human rights attorney at the United Nations -1966-67, visiting professor of art at S. Mary's from September 1967 to June 1968 and nomination for distinguished professorship while at St. Mary's. The list seems to grow each time we talk with Geoffrey. One must wonder what he has been doing since 1967 other than spending his time trying to get a job at DuLac. 
Last May Geoffrey threatened to·sue the people across the road, but settled with filing a complaint with he South Bend Human Relations and Fair Practice Commission. In the complaint he said he could produce "circumstantial and documentary evidence." In an in­terview with the Observer Geoffrey stated: "They don't have a leg to stand on. Personal glory means nothing to me, for I would rather be remembered as a man who stood fast for what I believed in." 
In October, apparently motivated by the merger, Geoffrey filed another complaint with the South Bend office against Notre Dame and claimed $10 million in damages and humiliation because of Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh and the University's allegedly discriminatory acts. 
His latest move as reported Monday, was filing a complaint and asking for immediate action by the Office of Contract Compliance in Washington. In that complaint he said he shall prove discrimination due to race, national origin and color and that all appointees in the last four years are less qualified and deserving than he. 
St. Mary's was notified of and acknowledged the first complaint. Notre Dame has not been notified of the last two. Neither institution has been named in a law suit. 
Where will this end, Mr. Geoffrey? You have made your claims against the Notre Dame and St. Mary's, and have stated that you are able to prove them on circumstntial and documented evidence. If you are so sure of your case, it would be easy to get your desired position along with the $10 million damages you claim against Fr. Hesburgh and Notre Dame. 
Ifyour facts are true we want to know them. Notre Dame by its very nature as an academic and Christian institution has no right to deny you a position, especially when its president is chairman of the Civil Rights Commission. 
King Kong 
A great show, but it cost ... 
No fundamental conflict in philosophy ... 
Slaves: 
Nite Editor: Jim McDermott 
Layout & Headlines: Art "Sunshine" Esposito & 
Dan Ryan 
Machine Freaks: Don & Joe 
Sports Nite Ed: Stan the Man 
Dingbats of the night: Ellis, TC, Abowd, etc. 
General Pains: That lnnsbruck mob 
News Editor : Jerry Lutkus 
SMC Editor: Ann Conway 
Campus Editor: Don Ruane 
whatever 
why? 

the open theatre: human drama 

The Open Theater is what it is called--­open, experimental, collective, drawing in itself all of the forms .of experience and expression and throwing it out at the audience in a plea, a demand, a call for understanding and action. It deals with any and all of the so-called classic themes of modern theater---war, politics, alienation, the thin line between the dead and the living, and most importantly, the chances for rebirth for man in his present state. 
The reason for the Open Theater's high world standing is its ability to express these themes in a more intense, colorful, dramatic and more human manner---and the recognition it has received has not been given lightly. During their recent European tour, they appeared at the Spoleto Arts Festival in Italy and the Bordeaux Festival in France. They also received First prize at the Belgrade In­ternational Theater Festival in September of this year. The director and founder of the group, Joseph Chaikin, has two Obies (off-broadway edition of the Tony award) to his credit. 
Caikin founded Open Theater in 1963, in order to explore new forms of im­provisation, using his own technique, called transformation, in which the actor or actors, with no formal transition, become new characters in a new situation and time---working on the assumption that 

non-fables and morals 
(c) 1971 New York Times Second non-fable. In Chicago, a fineNew York--The day the Lincoln bronze plaque at the base of a huge newMemorial collapsed there was no more dumbbell-shaped, 250-story office tower -­smog than usual over Washington, finally the biggest building in the world -­although traffic had been heavy through was unveiled by Mayor Daley, who paidthe open trenches of the new freeway link tribute to Chicago as the birthplace of thecut through the grounds around the modern skyscraper. Unfortunately, theremonument. 

weren't any early skyscrapers left.

The new road, which also ran just 2,000 In low relief on the plaque were thefeet from the Washington Monument and demolished Chicago landmarks of Louislooped above and below ground at the edge Sullivan and his colleagues, including theof the Tidal basin and the Jefferson Garrick Theater, the Stock Exchange, the Memorial, had been built to satisfy a Reliance Building, the MonadnockCongressional subcommittee that had held Building, the Rookery and the Carson,funds for the Washington subway as a kind Pirie Scott Store.
of ransom in exchange for the highway. 
Just before the demolition of the Stock Exchange, the public outcry had resultedAccording to a restoration consultant, in Mayor Daley's holding up theKenneth Eisenber, the Lincoln Memorial demolition permit long enough for ahad been dissolving "like a giant alka­preservation feasibility study. This was aseltzer tablet" for some time even before politically popular move that had thethe road went through. 

virtue of inaction.

It was being eaten away by the Ozone Because everybody knew, of course, that and Nitric acid that are the byproduct of a feasibility study would find thatautomobile exhaust and both marble and preservation was unfeasible, since theremortar joints were disintegrating. A was a great deal of money to be made bychemical spray had been tried to halt the tearing down the old buildings and putting damage, but with the added fumes of up new ones as land prices rose. Ob­90,000 to 100,000 cars a day, con­viously, preservation was uneconomic, inservationists had finally given up. The terms of the real estate laws of life.
Lincoln Memorial was a romantic ruin to When the feasibility study saying thatthe automotive age. 
preservation was unfeasible was com­Few had objected to the destruction of pleted, the city issued the demolition41'2 acres of shaded park and the loss of permit.

Japanese cherry trees for the road, Curiously, both the study and the citybecause few people used the park and ignored the fact that the City Council'sparkla~d was becoming uneconomic and committee on cultural and economicmconvenient, due to rising land prices. 
development was holding a zoningMost just drove by in cars. 

amendment proposal that could haveIt was not surprising, therefore, that made preservation feasible.

neither the Department of Transportation nor the Department of the Interior had And so first the Stock Exchange, and · requested the Advisory Council on historic then the other early Chicago skyscrapers Preservation to review the freeway plans, were demolished, but very carefully. Thealthough this was required under law by ornamentation was removed intact,the National Historic Preservation Act of because it was quite valuable, and1966. The work had just gone ahead. 
museums and collectors wished to pur­Shortly after the Lincoln Memorial chase it.

collapsed, the Jefferson Memorial When everything was gone, Mayordeveloped a noticeable tilt, as it wakened Daley created Chicago landmarks day inand settled. There was no protest. The memoriam. 
younger generation said that history and Moral: A city gets the landmarks it monument were irrelevant, but that they deserves. 
were sorry about the trees and grass. Moral: A country gets the monuments This tale is fictional in two aspects only -­it deserves. 
the new 250-story tower and the loss of allA far-out fable? Nothing is fiction ex­the major buildings of the Chicago school. 

cept the ultimate collapse of the Lincoln That may be more prescience thanand Jefferson Memorials --a bit of exaggeration, however, because thedramatic fable-telling license. The road is process is now well under way.
real, proposed and backed by Congress, The Stock Exchange story is true, and the and it will probably go through as feasibility study and proposed zoning aredescribed. The restoration consultant is fact. The building is under the wrecker'sreal, as is his comment about the -ball as this is written. The city is choosing present damage to the Lincoln Memorial, not to solve a problem for which it has the and the chemical spray has been used. 
tools at hand. That would be leadership,The road will be a total environmental 

which isneverpopularhexcept as rhetoric. disaster. Final Moral: We get t e cibes we deserve. 
a character is not defined by his social or psychological makeup, but by his visible actions. This obviously demands great skill a~d virtuosity from the actor himself, and ntual and gesture become more important than a script. It also demands a collectivity, which is how Chaikin describes Open Theater, a collectivity which binds not only the performers but the entire audience to the moment of the performance---and it is very possible that theater in itself can find its highest pin­nacles in such collectivity and such moments. 
Chaikin and the company also display great intensity in terms of their in­volvement with radical politics, mixing this in with their performance capabilities in a highly volatle combination. Chaikin himself is a draft counselor, and the company has performed in the streets with the SDS, given benefits for the Resistance and also plans an antidraft guerrilla skit for high school presentation. 
About their last production, "Ter­minal," the New York Times called it "a moving and artistic experience. It will offer different things to different people but should leave none untouched." The 


Saturday Review termed their work "an bargain. It's a call for personal freedom unforgettable sequence of simply executed and responsibility." images, an experience that will jar you out Working from their success of "Ter­of your half-life if anyone can." Dick minal," the Open theater will present 
Brukenfeld of the Village Voice "left the tonight at O'Laughlin at 8:30their midwest evening moved and exuberant, thinking premiere of "Mutations," a brand new about the shortness of time. This work "work in progress." The quality, vir­
makes you ponder, not about the rot­tuosity, and humanity of this powerful tenness of society, but of one's part in the group make it a definite must to see them. 
russell baker 
•
CiaO, john mitchell/­
(c) 1971 New York Times Washington,--More conversations with House Billiard Room without being robbed John Mitchell: of all my pocket money?" "It's good of you to come by, John, but---." "We're going to do something about 
"Mr. President, I never want it to be that, Mr. President. In fact, I'm going to said that John Mitchell was too busy to see start interpreting the White House crime the president." statistics myself, so that it won't seem that 
"Yes. Well, that's very decent of you, you're being mugged here as much as you
John, but you've caught me on a very busy are. Now, about these trips to Georgiaday. Can you make it brief, John? I'm and---." already 10 minutes late for my chopsticks "I don't see how I can possibly work lesson." Georgia in, John, without giving up my
"It's about your travel plans during the trip to Albania." election campaign, Mr. President. "You're going to Albania, Mr. Several of our state Republican leaders President?" are in touch with my office, and they want "They've never seen a President in 
commitments for you to 'to come into Albania, John. I could become the first their states next year." President ever to visit Tirana. Do you
"Listen to this, John: 'una tavola per know what Tirana is, John?" due vicino alia finestra, per piacere.' "Mr. President, I wish you wouldn't test that's Italian. I just learned that this me on subjects I haven't done homework morning from my Italian records." on. Tirana. Let's see. Just guessing, I'd 
"What does it mean, Mr. President?" day it's a small, flesh-eating fish by "It means, John, 'give me a table for Dostoyevsky. Now, Mr. President, we two, please, near the window."' really should think about a full campaign 
"It would do us a lot of good if you could tour of California." work it into a campaign speech in New "Tirana, John, is the capital of Albania. Jersey sometime next year, Mr. Situated in the mountain fastnesses-." President." "About the California campaign, Mr. 
"New Jersey, John! No! I'm learning President---" Italian for my trip to Rome when I hold "I'll be in California at San Clemente conversations with the Pope." resting between my trip to Nepal and my 
"I see, Mr. President. You're going to trip to Liechtenstein, John. Do you have ask the Pope to give you a table for two any idea how they make bird's nest soup? near the window, so the two of you can I've just come from a cuisine briefing by have a tete-a-tete. That will be a great Henry Kissinger, who tells me---. Well, moment for world peace. Now, I think a never mind that now. Is that all you had in series of trips into Pennsylvania, Ohio and mind, John?" Illinois---." "We would really like to see you cam­
"John! John! How can you talk about paign in New York next year, Mr. Pennsylvania, Ohio and Illinois when President." Moscow is beckoning. The onion Domes of 
St. Basil's. The Kremlin Walls, Hohn. "Do you think a trip to New York is more Smerdyakov and Old Fyodor Pavlovich important than my visits to Guatemala, Karamazov. Do you remember who Brazil, Togo, the Maldives and Scotland, Smerdyakov was, John?" John?" 
"Was he one of those judges we "Well, Mr. President, I know this nominated for the supreme court, Mr. campaign can be won on the far sides of President?" the Earth, but it never hurts any candidate 
"No, John. Smerdyakov was not one of to keep his fences mended back home." our Supreme Court appointees. He was a "I'll be traveling in America, John. No famous character created by the great need to worry about that. I'll be in Florida Russian novelist, Dostoyevsky, author of--at Key Biscayne as soon as winter sets in., And of course I'll be flying in and out of the 
"You're really going to be well-briefed Washington White House to have my for Moscow, Mr. President, and we'd like clothes pressed as the campaign goes on. you to go into Georgia and--." Listen, John, stop worrying. You ought to 
"---Author of 'Crime and Punishment,' travel more. Get the burdens of govern­John. And speaking of crime and punish­ment off your mind. Tell you what. Bring ment, I'm getting sick and tired of being Martha over to the White House tonight for mugged right here in the White House, a little Mah Jongg. And when you come in, John. We're supposed to have reduced watch out for t.hose potted palms in the crime in the nation's capital. Why can't I East room. There've been three even take an evening stroll to the White muggings there already this week." 
IF YOU THINK EUROPE WAS CHEAP THIS SUMMER, YOU SHOULD SEE IT THIS WINTER. 

For your next holiday you can be in London for $190. Rome $199. Paris $200. Or Greece $268. These arejustsome ofTW~s low round trip fares for youths between the ages of12 and 25. Who knows how much longer they'll be in effect, so for more details call TWA. And to help you save money when you're on vacation, send for TWA's new Getaway* Kit. It's free and it will tell you where you can get... 
BED, BREAKFAST AND SIGHTSEEING FOR ONLY $4.30A DAY. 
Only TWA offers you the Stutel pass.* Itis a book of vouchers you can buy for 10, 15, 20, 25, etc. days for just $4.30 a day. Each voucher entitles you to a bed, breakfast and sightseeingin 50 Euro­pean Cities. No advance reservations necessary. The kit also tells you where to ... 
RENTACAR FOR JUST $3.65 A DAY. 
In over 15 European Cities, you candrive a car all around the city for just $3.65 a day, plus gas and 4¥2¢ per kilometer. And how to save money with... 
SPECIAL SKI TOURS. 
TWA has some of thelowest priced ski tours to Vail,Aspen, and Steamboat. Or ifyou want to ski the Alps, take a TWA tour. Itsaves you over 50% of the cost of travelling alone. The kit also tells you how to get a ... 
GETAWAYCARD. 
You'll receive anapplication blank. There's no minimumincome require­ment. And no yearly maintenance fee. 
Use your Getaway Card to charge airfare, Stutelpasses, tours, almost everything. And then take up to two years to pay. 
Now what's even easier than getting away for the holidays, is getting a Getaway Kit. 
Just use the coupon. 

jrw:\i0~~402-:F;-;in-;d;;:N~li735-~--·' 015~ I Send all the information you have on bargain~ I vacations in Europe and the U.S.A. to:
IName I
IAddress I 
I City_______State____._zip Code_ ... _ · •·. I 
L----...···--------------------------1 
"''Service marks nwnptJ pxdusivt•ly hy TWA. 

Tuesday, November 16, 1971 THE OBSERVER 
•
Dillon, Morrissey ln IH finale 

by Stan Urankar '7:1 

A long-awaited showdown will finally lake place this Sunday afternoon when the Interhall football season comes to a close in the Stadium. This year's gridiron climax will see the defending champions from Dillon Hall try to retain their crown when they take on the Morrissey Marauders, the only campus squad to win every game they have played this season. 
Morrissl'y 12 KPenan 10 
The Marauders will now get their chance to prove their abilities in the finals as a result of 
this big victory. After a scoreless first period, quarterback Kirk Miller began to move his troops against Keenan's tough defense. A pitch-out from Miller to tailback Pat Casey resulted in a 20 yard gain that moved the ball to the Keenan 31. 
Casey, who picked up 73 yards in 12 carries for the afternoon, again came through on a fourth and one at the 12, as he swept right end for ll :rards to the one. The speedy sophomore once more got the call and crossed the goal line with the first score, culminating an 11 play, 78 yard drive. A pass from Miller to flanker Fran Finnegan fell short on the extra point try, as Morrissey led 6-Q. 
But Keenan was back in the 
ball game no sooner than the next play, and it was none other than .Joe Reams who did it. The 5-11 sophomore halfback swept right, broke into the Morrissey secondary, cut back to the wide side of the field, and raced 65 
yards to tie the game. Captain l{ich D'Ettore then hit right tackle for two points to send the til-fending North Quad champs into the second half with an 8-6 lead. 
Miller then began what proved to be the winning drive from his own 14 with six minutes left in the third period. Often keeping the hall himself, he utilized their powerful triple option to its fullest, taking the Marauders all the way to Keenan's four. From there, the versatile Miller cut over left tackle and dove in for the final Morrissey tally, just as the quarter ended. 
After an exchange of punts, last year's runners-up began their rinal drive of the year. After two 
runs, quarterback Tommy Ewing pitched to Reams, who then fired 50 years to tight end Ray Donovan for a first down at the Morrissey 18. Another first down eventually led to a fourth and goal at the one with three minutes to go. 
With the entire Marauder defense playing in tight, Reams took the handoff and moved toward right end. Linebacker Dan Ryan broke through to slow Reams up, and safety Paul Breen came in hard to apply to the final step. 
When Morrissey was unable to move the ball, Miller brought the team out on fourth down. Taking the snap , the junior quarterback trotted casually to the side of the end zone and downed the ball for a Keenan safety that merely iced the victory. 
Dillon 12 Pangborn-Fisher 0 
A tie for the regular season title in League One resulted in this rematch of once-beaten foes. P-F opened their year with a 20-0 rout of the Big Red, but Dillon fought back to win the rest of their games and force another en­counter. 
Dillon got on the board in the second period on a picture­perfect pass play. Quarterback Randy Stasik dropped back and threw a long bomb that fell right into the fingertips of streaking flanker Paul Michaels. The play covered 68 yards, and the Big Red led at the half, 6-0. 
The same combination ac­counted for the second TD, though in not the same way. With the defensive line of Billy Niezer, Animal Cunningham, Mike Bireley, and Joey LaRocca continually pressuring P-F quarterback Chuck Voelker into hurried attempts, Voelker again threw in desperation, only to have linebacker Eddy Carney tip the pass, and Michaels haul it in and race 42 yards back to the P-F six. Two plays later, Stasik followed guard Danny Mad­dalena and snuck the final yard for the score. 
Not only the line kept the losers in check, but the entire defense, 
J • v • •leers sweep two 

Ji m D on aIds on ::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:·:·:·:·:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=: 
• s h Ey e
T he Ir1 

·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::: Ice Ch;ps It was a dejected bunch of Notre Dame hockey players that left the University of North Dakota's Winter Sports Building Saturday night. They were dejected because, after winning the first game of their season opening, weekend series with the Fighting Sioux on Friday night by a 5-4 score, they had lost the second game, 6-5. They had trailed 5-o but battled back to tie the score, only to Jose. Notre Dame, making its WCHA debut on the road, might well have been satisfied with a split. Playing .500 hockey away from home is no small feat, especially for a club competing against "the big boys" for the first time, but the Irish wanted to win two. They didn't let that second game slip away from them without a fight. Behind 5-Q, they could have "written off' Saturday's game, but that's not the way "Lefty" Smith's club plays hockey. "We felt we could have won both," Smith commented Monday. "To the people in North Dakota and the people in the press box it was a surprise that we won at all," Smith continued. The Irish proved last year that they could play with the best in the country, as shown by their home ice victory over NCAA finalist, Denver University. This season, Notre Dame is an improved team, a gutsy team. Every school that plays the Irish is going to have a battle on their hands. "The team showed great dedication and determination Saturday night," Smith said proudly. "They came back extremely well." Sizing up his team's performance against the Fighting Sioux, Smith said, "I was very pleased with our scoring and I thought the defen­semen did a good job of breaking out of our zone. Our backchecking was weak though, and, at times, so was ·our coverage in the defensive zone." Most of the Notre Dame scoring against North Dakota was done by the line of John Campbell, Eddie Bumbacco and Ian Williams. Bumbacco, a sophomore left winger, scored two goals both Friday and Saturday nights, right winger Williams, another soph, tallied twice Friday and once Saturday and Campbell, a freshmen, scored his first ND goal Friday. The line accounted for all five Notre Dame goals in the opening game of the series and tallied three more times in the second game. "Campbell's line certainly did a nice job," Smith commented, "but I was a little bit disappointed that the other lines didn't score too well. We're going to experiment with a couple of line changes this week in practice." Smith will be working his charges hard this week to make sure they look sharp for their first home ice appearance this weekend against another WCHA foe, Colorado College. The Irish take on the Buffaloes Friday night at 7:45 and Saturday afternoon at 2:00. 
Notre Dame's junior varsity hockey team opened its schedule over the weekend by handing the Chicago Minor Hawks a pair of setbacks at the ACC. 
The Irish dumped the Hawks on Friday night by a 6-3 score and posted a 3-2 overtime win Saturday. 
Mike McPartlin scored two goals and Mike Tardani tallied a goal and added a pair of assists to lead the Irish to victory Friday. John Coombe played the hero's role Saturday, scoring the game ­winning goal 37 seconds into the extra period. 
Notre Dame had a tough battle with the Hawks for 40 minutes Friday before blowing the game open with four third period goals. Gary Gallagher, McPartlin, Leo Cushing and Tardani all scored for the Irish in the final stanza to 
br~!~u~S:;.sag;;~~:~o~~i>-and 
-tuck affair all the way. Cushingscored the only goal of the first 
f~;:o~lpyu\nt~~e ~~~!~d ~!;f:J.d 
Chicago went out front, 2-1, in the final period but McPartlin's goal at 18: 12 forced the game into 
overtime  and  Coombe  wasted  
little time in  wrapping  up  the  
victory.  

The Irish J.V.'s . coached by Charlie Burroughs, will be in action again on Saturday night, hosting the Glenwood Gulls at 7 p.m. 

Morrissey fullback Joe Holzmer takes a handoff from the Marauders' star -quarterback, Kirk Miller, in Sunday's 12-10 victory over Keenan in the semi-final round of the lnterhall football playoffs. 
the pride of the Dillon boys, played superbly as did outside played an outstanding game. men Tiger Ryan and Nick Peluse. Middle linebacker Rich "Mr. Jay Long and Marc Brammer Crunch" Sherman recovered a helped Michaels in the secon­key fumble in the first half, and dary. 
Sailors finish third 

Notre Dame's sailors captured Bruce Merrick crewed for Hoyt 
third place in the area "C" and Jeff Ratte for Willison. eliminations for the Angsten Notre Dame, with Ed "Hugo"Memorial Regatta last weekend Sweeney, George Gaw, Willison, at the Columbia Yacht Club on Hoyt, and Will Donelan rotatingLake Michigan . as skippers, had defeated 
Skippers Kevin Hoyt, in the Oshkosh the previous weekend in "A" division, and Tom Willison, a three team race on Lake in the "B" division, finished McBride at the U. of Iowa. behind Oshkosh and the host Chris Nedeau and Tom Mat­school, Northwestern, and thews setved as crews as the defeated Marquette, Iowa and Irish sailors posted low score of Wisconsin, qualifying the Notre 31 and three-fourths, well ahead Dame team to compete in the of Oshkosh, which scored 42 and Angsten Regatta, hosted by the three-fourths and Iowa, which Chicago Yacht Club, during trailed with 43 and three-fourths. Thanksgiving weekend. 
Dollar ice tix to be sold Sat. 

Notre Dame and St. Mary's There are still plenty of season students interested in attending hockey tickets available for Saturday afternoon's hockey Notre Dame students. Season game between the Fighting Irish ticket holders will be able to and Colorado College may watch the Irish play six WCHA purchase a $2 reserved seat opponents, Colorado, Mich. ticket for $1, Notre Dame's ticket Tech., Mich. St., Michigan, manager, Don Bouffard, an­Wisconsin and Minn.-Duluth, nounced yesterday. twice each during the season---a 
Any child accompanied by an total of 12 games for the price of adult may also purchase a $2 $12. Season tickets may be reserved set for $1. The opening purchased at the ticket office in faceoff Saturday is set for 2 p.m. the ACC. 
Ryan leads grappling squad 
by Pete Winkler '75 

Midway through November, while most eyes are still turned towards the football field, a small group of athletes are preparing for their own season. After two days of wrestle-offs, last Thur­sday and Friday, the 1971-72 Notre Dame wrestling squad is beginning to take shape. 
In the 150 pound class, team captain Ken Ryan is firmly en­trenched. The 126 pound class is held by Steve Moylan, Rick Esposto heads the 134 pound class, and Bob Bennett is first in the 158 pound class. 
Sophomore Mike Kemp is number one in the 167 pound class, Rick Komar is seeded first in the 177 pound weight class, and AI Rocek tops the 190 class. 
-· Two categories are still up for grabs. Among the 118 pounders, Mike Martin is seeded first, with serious competition from Stu Tsubota and Marcos Ronquillo. Junior Les Kubeny must defend his first seeding in the 142 pound class against Curt Bramble, a freshman who may be sidelined this year due to injuries. 

own, although he has an excellent chance of breaking the Notre Dame career record for in­dividual wins this year, and is, in his own words, "shooting for it." This record is currently held by Tom Ciaccio, last year's National Catholic Champion, at 47 wins. To date, Ryan has 34. 
With three seasons of ex­perience behind him, Ryan looks for this year's team to win 80 per cent of their matches. As a result of the recruiting efforts of Coach Terry Mather, the team has a great deal of potential, and, with experience, could prove to be the best Notre Dame squad in years. 
As Captain Ryan puts it, "There's a lot of fire in these freshmen and sophomores. I look forward to a high-spirited season." 
The schedule, which includes 17 matches and three tournaments, opens at home December 1 with Depauw University. The dualKen Ryan 

meet has already been dubbed The accent this year is on "Freshman Night at the Mat­
youth. Ken "Scrambler" Ryan, ches." Among the innovations to 
captain and the only senior on the be introduced will be a "hot 
squad, is one of only two retur­pants" contest, with a prize to be 
ning lettermen. Ryan, however, awarded to the girl with the best . 
sets team achievement above his . . outfit. 
Page 8 THE OBSERVER 
By AAUP rules 
Tenure cannot be granted 
by Joe Tanzosh 

Notre Dame can grant tenure to SMC professors this year without merging financially and academically, but by doing so it will break regulations of the American Association of 
University Professors, according to Prof. Ernest L. Eliel, president of the Notre Dame chapter of the AAUP. 
The AAUP rules, to which St. Mary's adheres, state that after six years of service at a certain college a faculty member must be either tenured or fired. If Notre Dame decides on SMC tenure, Eliel predicted that many SMC profs now without tenure will not be given that privilege by Notre Dame but instead given a "tri:~l nPrinrl" nf ? tn ~ vP:~r~ 
If St. Mary's and Notre Dame remain separate, some professors will go over this six year limit without being granted tenure, according to Eliel. If the merger goes through this year, however, the profs will be transferred to Notre Dame and the trial period will be within AAUP rules, Eliel said. 
Eliel predicted that some SMC profs will have much difficulty in obtaining Notre Dame tenure. He suggested that most SMC professors emphasize teaching more than they do their research, but at ND importance is put on both teaching and scholarly work. "Some Saint Mary's faculty, coming from a small liberal arts college to a much larger university, won't fit in to the Academic situation here," he said. 
The 

The problem Eliel argued, is made worse by what he saw as a current market surplus of college professors. Since jobs are scarcer to come by, he said tenure becomes more and more valuable. "The really good professors won't be bothered by this, but it is the borderline ones who will be in danger," he con­tended. 
Professor Eliel also said that tenure itself is under great attach these days. According to Eliel, those opposed to tenure argue that by the 1980's the supply of college academic personnel will exceed the demand. Eliel con­tended that tenure opponents believe that if tenure continues, many young people will have little opportunity to enter the profession. 
Tenure does have its positive points, however, Eliel argued. He said that its greatest ad­vantage is that it gives the faculty members the freedom to speak out on issues, to hold 
"anti-establishment" views without fear of losing their jobs. 
In summing up the situation here Eliel said, "It is a mutually unfortunate situation. These financial snags could have been anticipated, but apparently some people were optimistic that they could be ironed out in a short time." 
AFROTC sponsors lecture 
Thomas W. Wolfe, Senior Staff Member of the RAND Cor­poration, will speak this af­ternoon at the Library Auditorium on the subject of "The Problems of Russia Today and in the Future.'' The lecture is being sponsored by the AFROTC Cadet group as part of the Air Force Lecture Series and will be presented at 4:30. The lectture is open to the public. 
Mr. Wolfe has done extensive studies of the Soviet Military and Political structures. Among others he has published have been the books Soviet Strategy at the Crossroads and Soviet Power and Europe: 1945-1970. 
Since the RAND Corporation is 
server 
Local Insert Price List 
per 1000 (10,000 must be printed) 
2 page •.......•.•......... $10.00 4 page .........•.•.•.•.... $12.00 6 page •........•....•...•.$14.00 8 page .•.....••..•....•...$16.00 
12 & over pages ..........•$20.00 
Pamphlet 
8 page ............•.......$12.00 
16 page ..............•..... $15.00 
24 page ....•.......••......$18.00 
30 & over pages ...........$24.00 
Pre-payment Required. 
Call 7471 for further information. 
a Defense Departmen(think tank which studies and consults on National Security and Defense problems and strategies 
lot r gpirit goarf
• 
TAKE TIME TO VISIT THE 
NEW 

AQUINAS BOOK SHOP 
GIFTS • BOOKS POSTERS LOVE NOTES GREETING CARDS RELIGIOUS 
EDUCATION MATERIAL 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME CAMPUS OFF JUNIPER ROAD 
BROWSERS WELCOME FREE PARKING 
OPEN MONDAY & THURSDAY TIL 7:00PM 
AQUINAS BOOK SHOP 
18717 BULLA ROAD SOUTH BEND, IN 46637 PH. 272-1704 






