Freshman Issue 



Vol. VI, No. 1 Serving the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Community Saturday, September 4, 1971 
Hofman named as new Freshman Dean 

t 

Policy explained in letter 
Campus rules tighten 
Stricte1 enforcement of the SLC last spring and sent to 
parietal am.. drinking rules is in the board for their summer 
the offing, according to a letter meeting. 
by President Fr. Theodore M. The Hall Life Report included 
Hesburgh, scheduled to arrive in nine recommendations in three 
studept mail boxes sometime this areas; parietal hours, alcoholic 
week. beverages, and hall staff and hall 
The letter explained the policy government. It also contained a 
set down by the Board of Trustees poll done by 11 handpicked 
in their summer meeting, caliing students among a representative 
for more enforcement of parietal sampling of the student body: 
and drinking rules, guidelines for The trustees approved seven of 
sanctions set by judicial boards the recommendations, including 
and calls for more student publication of the rules on 
responsibility. drinking and the university's 
The trustees policy was con-rational for parietal hours, and 
tained in a letter written by board upgrading of the hall staffs. 
chairman Edmund Stephan and Rejected by the Trustees were 
addressed to Prof. William the recommendations that each 
Eagan, Chairman of the Student hall be allowed to determine their 
Life Council. It was in response to own parietal hours, after con­
a Hall Life Report drawn up by sultation with the hall life board, 
The following changes in the and that each hall be allowed to 
freshman orientation schedule determine rules and guidelines 
were released by Dr. Emil T. for hall and section parties. 
Hofman, Dean of Freshman According to Stephan, the 
Year. trustees felt it would "be unwise 
at this time to alter the present 
!!:IJIJ Saturday, ACC: Fr. James regulations on parietal hours ... " 
T. Burtchaell, University claiming that the visitation hours Provost, will give the welcoming were originally allowed in order address to freshmen and their to "improve the social life of the parents. campus and ... contribute to the 
2: oo Sunday, Engineering Aud.: growth and maturity of the in­Special session for Afro-dividual hall residents." American students and other Stephan reiterates the rule interested students. (Scheduled concerning drinking in the halls sessions for students interested in saying "all parties, whether Foreign study programs and sponsored by a hall, a section, or ROTC will be as scheduled.) a campus organization, are to be 
4:011 Sunday, Continuing held off-campus if alcoholic Education Center: Reception by beverages are to be served. The the administration for students University's status before the law and their parents. and its responsibility for the 2:1111 Monday, ACC: Diagnostic welfare of each student requires and guidance testing. Freshmen that this original policy be are asked to arrive by 1:30 if retained and strictly enforced." possible to facilitate giving all the The Trustees called for tests in the allotted time. clarification of the campus Other activities on the general judicial positions boards, schedule will be held as planned. claiming that "some boards have 
Freshmen will eat all meals in chosen to ignore the seriousness North dining hall only until of instances of larceny, assault, Sunday morning. Beginning at excessive drinking, major noon on Sunday, all students will violations of parietal hours, and eat in assigned dining halls. 
'----------_,(Continued on page 3) 
by John Abowd Dr. Hofman thought that the 
two changes in the freshman year 

Dr. Emil T. Hofman, newly program that would affect in­appointed Dean of Freshman coming ND students immediately Year, released his plans for would be the extensive revision of major restructuring of his the counseling services and the department during the summer. expansion of the guidance testing The program includes division of program which will be conducted the department into five units during orientation. and merger with the newly The counselling program, formed Office of Freshman which will be explained at the Studies at St. Mary's College. Sunday sessions, is divided into Both operations are scheduled for three types of services: completion by the spring -25 senior students, selected on semester of this term. the recommendation of the deans 
Dr. Hofman, formerly an of the colleges and the various assistant dean in the College of department heads, will be Science, assumed his current available as interviewers. post on June 1, 1971. He noted tb­--Six professional counsellors, all at since his appointment, ND and faculty members, will divide the SMC offices of freshman studies guidance duties with each han­have been "operating separately dling only one intent. but in close cooperation." --Departmental consultants, 
ND-SMC coordinate freshman programs 
Mrs. Rosemary Doherty, SMC except in those departments in Dean of Freshman Students, which the department head Thursday outlined the. academic resigned during the past year. In regulations for the 515 n~w SMC those departments, the chairmen freshmen due on campus today. have not been replaced. 
"Whatever requirements Notre Sunday Mrs. Doherty will hold Dame has will be the a ·briefing on registration andrequirements for the Saint Marys academic regulations with thefreshmen," Mrs. Doherty said. 
new freshmen. Schedules haveThere can be of course discussion been made up for each freshman of these, and there can be some showing the courses, times andchanges that can be made; but as locations of her classes. This, she of the present, the incoming hopes, will allow the freshmenfreshmen are in the Notre Dame time to consult with the Office ofprogram." 
Freshmen studies on changesThere is little change, ac­and conflicts before Registration cording to Mrs. Doherty, in the which will be held Tuesday atfreshmen curricula for BA Notre Dame.
majors. In the past freshmen 

have take English, a modern "Whatever requirements Notre language, a Social Science, Art Dame has will be the History, Math and Fine Arts. reqtlirements for the Saint This year however, science has Mary's freshmen," Mrs. Doherty been added as -a · freshman said. There can be of course requirement. Instead of the 8 discussion of these, and there can 
hours required in the past in be some changes that can be Science, freshmen will now take 6 made; but as of the present, the hours of science to fulfill the incoming freshmen are in the ri:'']Uirement. Notre Dame program." 
selected by the individual departments will provide advise on majors, departmental requirements and career op­portunities to both the general counsellors and students. 
Dr. Hofman noted that five of the six regular counsellors ara new. He also pointed out tha the office hired young men to fill these positions. "We don't expect them to know everything, and when they need information outside of their own frames of reference they are instructed to call the appropriate depart­mental advisor." 
The regular counselling staff consists of :Dr. Mark Bamanek and Mr. Paul Jones, science; Dr. Niel Schilmoeller, engineering; Fr. Thomas Seidel, business; Dr. Darly Glick, arts and letters, and Mr. Dwight Murphy, black students (by request). 
The diagnostic and guidance testing, scheduled for 2:00 Monday in the Athletic and Convocation Center, has been re­designed and expanded to include three types of tests : 
-Achievement tests on academic subjects -Interests tests --Personality inventories 
Dr. Hofman noted that since the allotted time for testing was not based on the test battery currently planned, the session will be cramped. Students are urged to arrive early. 
The other three units of the freshman office include Academic programs, special projects and the development of a learning resources center. Dr. Hofman will oversee these units himself. Assistant Dean Robert Glennen will direct the coun­selling program. Peter Grande, also an assistant dean, will oversee the "systems unit" 
which  includes  the  testing  
program.  
Concerning  the  palnned  

merger with SMC's freshman year office, Dr. Hofman noted the 
(continued on page 2} 
On the question of credit hours toward graduation, Mrs. Doherty stated that "if anything there will be a slight reduction in required hours." The upper classmen are 
required to have 128 hours in order to graduate. The freshmen load will be reduced because of the new science requirements for BA majors and the coordination of SMC-ND courses. Freshmen will take a normal course load of 15 hours except those going overseas. Those in the Rome and other programs abroad will be required to take more language credits than regular BA majors. 
The question of diplomas for the incoming freshmen has also been settled. "Saint Mary's College will appear on with the University of Notre Dame on all diplomas received by the new freshmen. 
With the merger of depart­ments effective this September, freshmen will now be under the chairmen of their major department at Notre Dame. Former SMC chairmen are now associate department heads 


New York--Contending that his visa had been revoked while he was flying here from Ireland, the United States Government argued before a hearing officer that Joe Cahill should not be allowed to remain in this country. Cahill, the leader of the militant "provisional" wing of the I.R.A. was ordered held in a guarded dormitory until the hearing resumes next Tuesday. 
London-In a further British move to keep the pound sterling from floating too high against the dollar, British officials lowered the maximum interest rate in their country from 6 per cent to 5 per cent. The lower rate, it is hoped, will ward off further in­flows of speculative dollars and slow the depreciation of the dollar. 
Berlin-The formal signing of the Big Four Agreement on Berlin was delayed at least 24 hours by difficulties in matching the English-German and Russian-German versions of the Treaty's text. 
Washington--South Vietnam's military leaders are "less than unanimous" in supporting President Nguyen Van Thieu's decision to go ahead with the presidential election even though he has no opponent, the nation's intelligence services told President Nixon. Although most generals pledged their support at a secret meeting with Thieu last week, the services said, some were "noncommitial." 

L 

Pege2 THE OBSERVER. Saturday, September 4, 1971 
ND councils' functions defined 


By Milt Jones the daily activity and atmosphere student union board of directors. president, vice-president for There are slso committees
Although many students are of the University is the Student The student union board of business affairs, and the comp­which were organized byaware that quite a few com­Life Council. The SLC is com­directors is composed of one troller for the university. It 
students to haf\dle particular

mittees and councils exist at posed of twenty-four persons. faculty member, the SBP, the decides on matters concerning matters. Two of these are theNotre Dame, few students know Administration, faculty, and SBVP, student body treasurer, the budget of the university. Dining Hall Advisory Commiteethe names, functions and other student body are each and a stay senator. It dictates the The Dean's Committee and the LaFortune Center House pertinent information about these represented by one-third of the policy of the student union and members include the provost, Committee. The DHAC isgroups. The following is a total membership of the Council. meets as needed. 
associate provost, assistant composed totally by students. Itcompilation of many of the The Dean's Committee, Budget provost, and all deans. It decides meets each week with the
committees and councils on Observer Insight Committee, and University on many academic and ad­director of Food Services, Ed­
campus, and pertinent in­Officers are standing committees ministrative matters. 
mund Price, and makes

formation about them. ---------------------­
The SLC decides on matters ·that are categorized· as ad­The Academic Council is 
suggestions concerning foodThe Hall Life Board, which is concerning the everyday life of ministrative committees. The comprised of 65 members, seven service for the students.

composed of three faculty the University community. It university officers are the of which are students. Student The LaFortune Center Housemembers, and three ad­controls such things as students, provost, president, associate representatives consist of the Committee is made up of oneministrators, meets once a cars, the drug situation, ana provost, and all the. ad­student government academic fa.culty member and his wife, the month. The board reviews the 
others. ministrative vice-presidents. commissioner, one delegate each manager of the center, thegovernments and constitutions of 
There are also committees and This is the equivalent to of the four colleges, and two grad assistant vice-president ofthe individual halls and approves councils that come under the President Hesburg's cabinet and 
students. It is chaired by Fr. student affairs, the non-studentor disapproves them. Its purpose general category of student functions in that manner. Burtchaell, and makes academic secretary in the student govern­
is to help the halls improve their government. Themain ones are The Budget Committee is decisions such as grading ment office, SBVP, and the
government and judicial student senate, cabinet of the composed of the president, systems, academic calender, and student government research
procedures. 
student body president, and provost, executive vice-other similar decisions. 
and development coordinator.

The Hall Presidents'Council coordinates ideas and programs concerning the halls, and meets e Monday nights in La Fortune center. It handles and assists the 
Merger completion still 1n planning
handling of such functions as freshmen orientation, Plans are still in the making to registrars have been merged but will.bring the total from 12 to 16 Alma, then acting president;
homecoming, communication complete formal unification no other departments or offices members. Edmund A. Stephan, chairman of with resident assistants of the have been fully consolidated. the Notre Dame board; and Fr.
agreed by trustees of Saint -Preservation of the Saint
individual halls, and other Admissions and financial aid Hesburgh.
Mary's College and Notre Dame Mary's identity by matriculation
similar programs. Its mem­are still being handled by the
last May. of all women undergraduates at
bership includes the twenty respective institutions, neither
Unification of all academic Notre Dame through Saint 
presidents of the halls on cam­reporting any sizable change in
departments is expected to be Mary's. Their degrees will bear 
pus, and an executive coor­enrollment or aid.
completed during the 1971-72 the name, "Saint Mary's College 
dinator. The two trustee boards ap­
academic year. of the University of Notre 
Another group which deals with proved the unification plans in
Currently, duties of the Dame." 
separate sessions in the Center 
-Faculty members with tenure
for Continuinng Education. The 
at SMC will be given tenure at
plans were drawn up at a joint 
Notre Dame. Non-tenured faculty 
meeting of their executive

SMC orientation planned will be evaluated according to
committees in March. 
Notre Dame standards with
"The ultimate goal of this 

Cooperation with Notre Dame the Student Advisors groups at St. provision for a reasonable
unification is a single institution 

iu the keynote of this year's Mary's. "We're trying to keep evl!luation period.
with one student body of men and 

freshmen orientation according activities on a one to one basis," women, one faculty, one -Integration of ad-to K. C. Tieman, Social Co­Miss Tiernan explained, "and Sr. Alma Peter
president and administration, ministrations. 


chairman of the SMC Orientation mix the groups so that the guys 
and one board of trustees," 
-Establishment of in-

Committee. and girls can meet as many 
President Fr. Theodore M. 
terinstitutional teams to work in"The basic difference between people as possible both on the ND 

Hesburgh said at the signing. 
The League of Womenmove unification foreward inthe orientation this year and and on the SMC campus." 

The agreement provided the 
Voters will be registeringareas such as academic affairsthose of th past is that we decided One big difference from days 

appointment of Sr. M. Alma 
voters in the North Dome ofstudent affairs, business affairs,to work with every Notre Dame past is that there will be no 

Peter to the post of Vice 
the ACC Tuesday Sep­public relations and develop­hall," Miss.Tiernan said. "In last "monster mash" mixer, where 

President for Special Projects. 
tember 7 from 8:30am toment.

year's orientation, the Com­the odds were way out of 
.. She is the first woman vice 
4:30 pm. Students may

mittee planned activities with proportion. president in the history of Notre -Extension of a formal register to vote in St. 
only a few halls on the ND The members of the Freshman welcome to Sisters of the Holy
Dame. 
Joseph's coul)ty with 

campus. When we met last April Cross at Saint Mary's to serve at
Orientation Committee urge all Sr. Alma's responsibilities will certain restrictions. In­
to formulate plans for this year freshmen to attend the Notre Dame on all levels with
be in the area of unification. 
formation will be available 

we decided to assign a girl to Welcoming Program tonight at remuneration to be negotiated, at the voter registrationwork with each dorm on campus 8:30 in O'Laughlin Auditorium. with the order, in a manner table. 
in planning activities for the new "We urge the freshmen to attend Governing Bodies similar to the agreement Notre incoming freshmen." so that they will be familiar with Dame now has with its Holy 
In keeping with last year's the different administrators and Cross priests.
Other provisions of the

orientation, much of the ac­opportunities that St. Mary's has Money is still the major
agreement are:

tivities will be conducted throuldl to offer." 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
The Observer advertising department would like to welcome the Freshman class to Notre Dame and St. Mary's. We would like to inform you that The Observer carries a Classified Advertisement section each day as a service to students who would like to buy or sell an item; are looking for a job, travel opportunities or car; have lost or found valuables; or who wish to publish a "peanuts" personal message. 
The rates are listed below and payment must be received before publication. SO if you need us, simply mail the message with payment to Box 11 or drop by our office on the third floor of La Fortune any weekday between I and 5. 
We wish you the best of luck at ND and St. Mary's and hope we can be of service. For 9uestions call7471. 
!words  1 day  2 days  3 days  4 days  1 week  
1-10  .50  .75  1.00  1.15  1.25  
11-15  .60  1.00  1.35  1.75  2.15  
16-20  .70  1.15  1.70  2.40  2.80  
21-25  .85  1.35  2.00  2.90  3.45  
26-30  1.00  1.60  2.35  3.40  4.10  
31-35  1.20  1.90  2.80  3.85  4.70  
36-40  1.35  2.10  3.10  4.25  5.10  
41-45  1.55  2.30  3.30  4.50  !;.50  
46-50  1.75  2.50  3.50  4.75  6.00  

problem facing unification, ND-SMC frosh Executive Vice President Ed­-Addition of SMC trustees, 
mund P. Joyce and Sr. M. Gerlad
religious and lay to Notre Dame's 

Hartney, secretary of the SMC (Continued [rom Page I)two governing bodies, the 
Fellows and the Board of trustees, will report sometime relationship between himself and this fall on the financial
Trustees, following unification. Mrs. Rosemarie Doherty, newly 
arrangements.

The Fellows will be increased appointed Dean of Freshman 
Signing the agreement were:

by adding two sisters of the Holy Studies at SMC, has been "very
Mother Olivette Whalen,

Cross, one SMC lay trustee and cordial." 
chairman of the SMC board; Sr.

one additional ND trustee. This St. Mary's freshmen are considered Notre Dame students 
Need a 
immediately. "They are following programs which will


CHEST OF DRAWERS? 
prepare them for ND academic programs in their sophomore years and beyond," ..Dr. Hof­

BOOKCASE OR RECORD CABINET? 
man noted. "We are operating in struc­
tures which were inherited rathe 
than ones which were self­
developed. There will be some 

Buy it unpainted -Save 1/2 or more 

Save $ on Room Size Rugs 
difficulties, some of which we might not have anticipated. We



Now on campus at old fieldhouse 
hope we have minimized these." "We're learning and we hope

Free Delivery 
that students will understand 


this," Dr. Hofman added. Dr. Hofman will continue to


WILLIAM'S 
teach the General Chemistry course which he has conucted for 

Unpainted furniture 
over 15 years. This course brings him in contact with 800 freshmen each year.


And N.D. Student Union 
lne UD..rver II pubiiSned dAllY durlnt the cOllege •mester except vACations bY the students of the· UniverSity of.Notre DAme And St. MAry's Col..... Sublc:rlptlons may 
be purchll•d for 11 from TIM 0~ 

Also at 2609 5. Michigan 288-2181 for Free Delivery 
..,.,.,, Box 11, Notre o.me, Ind. 41556. 5econcl eta• paau.e Polld,

Serving ND students since 1948 
N~tre o.me, Ind. 46556. 



Saturday, September 4, 1S7l THE OIJSERVEit 
SLC poll/report sparks Hesburgh letter 

(Continued [rom Page 1) 
similar anti-social behavior which were brought before them." 
"We are convinced," Stephan's letter stated "that precise guidelines must be established for the disciplinary boards, that sanctions should be clear and unequivocal for the offenses committed, and that their ap­plication must be swift once the facts supporting the charge have been found." 
The Trustees called on the 
S.L.C. to submit to them, at their Oct. 22 meeting, appropriate sanctions for the violations of university rules and regulations. 
If the SLC does not act by Oct. 22, the Trustees, working with the administration, would set ap­propriate sanctions, according to the letter. 

Student Body President John Barkett admitted that not all halls have a functioning judical system. He said that in some halls they purposely weren't called because members felt punitive punishment wouldn't work. He cited Morrissey Hall, during the time he was hall president, as an example. 
Barkett added that some halls regard judical boards as jokes. 
He disagreed with the idea of setting specific sanctions for violations of university rules saying, "It doesn't seem to be reasonable treatment to force a board to take this action in this case because it is specificed, some sort of guidelines might be possible in a general sense." 
"I think that the positions of rector and resident assistants is even a more unenviable one than they have been in the past. I'm hoping they will show the prudence and discretion fitting to the reality of the situation," the SBP stated, in response to the Trustees position. 
The Trustees stated that regarding "the preservation of a good academic atmosphere and the maintenance of high standards of Christian life across the campus,""When student self­discipline proves inadequate, however, Rectors and Resident Assistants, as senior members of this University community, must accept this responsibility themselves." 

•

IRA bombs injure 39 people 1n Ulster 
Belfast, Northern Ireland, Sept. 2 -Six bombs exploded in downtown Belfast today within minutes of one another, injuring 39 persons and wrecking the ruling Unionist Party headquarters. 
It was the first time that the terrorist Irish .. Republican Army had hit such crowded areas in a daylight attack. Officials feared that today's bombings could mark the beginning of a new phase of activity against civilians. 
In only one caase was there a telephoned warning but by the time the anonymous call was received two bombs had exploded in a multistory parking garage, wrecking scores of cars and causing a fire. 
Six persons were injured when the first bomb exploded outside the front door of the Unionist Party headquarters, devestating the ground floor offices. A bomb planted there two weeks ago had failed to explode, and in March all the building's windows were blown out by a bomb . 
There were no politicians in the building at the time of the blast, although the building is usually frequented by Stormont cabinet ministers. 
Three minutes later the othzr three bombs exploded in quick succession, driving panic­stricken office workers from a recently-ilpened office building near the city hall. 
The injured, mostly suffering from shock and cuts from flying glass, were taken to two city hospitals. Only one man, who had 

;~;~r=:r:r:=======~=======:======~================:=======:=:;;=:=========:::==========~=======================~=======================:=====:=========:=====~~;~ 
::::: Night Editors -Joe Abell, Gene Slason @:@ Layout -Jim McDermott ~~ ::~::~ SMC Editress -Ann Conway m jl Controllers of the Night: Helen Smudski, ::~ l§l rick smith f'l Friendly Neighborhood Repairman: Dan ·~ ~~:: Thornton ?;:$ ~ll Picture Man -John Abowd ~ ¥ Our Man from Madison Ave. -Bill Bauerle @~ m And out in Left Field-Don Ruane ?:~ 


~=====·==;===~=···===·=·=·=,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,~,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,*'''''''''''m=:=:~m=::::c.::=:====~==========~;.:;======================:::=:=m 
been trapped in his car at the bombed garage, was hospitalized. 
The explosions occurred just as office workers were beginnmg their lunch break, and activity in the center of the city halted as ambulances and fire engines converged on the bombed buildings. 
For the rest of the day store' and offices here received many hoax bomb warnings by telephone. Police believe the purpose of the calls was to throw the city into a state of panic. 
But as well as confusion there was anger on the streets. Trade union leaders at the Belfast shipyards, where most of the 10,000 woirkers are protestants, pleaded with thz men not to march in protest against what they assert are inadequate security precautions. 
British soldiers patrolled the city's streets in armored cars, but security at key buildings is minimal during thz day because the I.R.A. has usually struck at night. 
Prime Minister Brian 'Faulkner in a statement said the bombings were "the action of subhuman animals". He called on people to show their deter­mination not to submit to terrorism by joining one of the part-time security forces. The blasts are assumed to be the work of the provisional I.R.A., which had claimed responsibility for most of the recent bombinhs, including the daylight attack on the offices of the Northern Ireland Electricity Board a week ago which killed a man and in­jured 35 persons, many of them young girls who were disfigured for life. 

Attention Freshmen .,otre Umne-St . .Mary's Freslunen Student Uirectory Distributed at Athletic and Convocation Center at registration Sept. 7 from 10-noon and 1-3 pm. Pick up ordered copies! For into: Allan F. Knappenberger 234-1815  
Notre Urune-St. 1\'lary's I~'reshnwn Student Uirectory Additional copies also on sale at Notre Dame and St. Mary's Bookstores.  

The provisionals, or "provos" broke away from the regular 

I.R.A. or "Officiuls" two years ago because they disagreed with the "officials" emphasis .on political eather than military action. 

The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Located on the Campus is Ready To Serve You 
"Dependable Quality At Students' Prices" 
Text Books-New & Used 
Paperback Books  Notre Dame Jackets  
School Supplies  Sportswear  
Drawing Instruments  Monogram Blankets  
Drawing Supplies  Toilet Articles  
Stationery  Desk Lamps  
Typewriters  Religious Articles  
Expert Radio & Typewriter repair  Jewelry & Class Rings  
Cameras & Film  Radios  &  Records  
Typewriters For Rent ­ 


Rental May Apply Toward the Purchase of Your Own Machine 
THE 1971 





NCAA slaps ND wrists Gemmell out, 
KANSAS CITY -The NCAA Athletic Director Ed "Moose"' No illegal financial aid had 
leg fractured 
infractions committee Krause said he was disappointed been granted and the 
reprimanded Notre Dame Aug. with the NCAA action regarding No illegal financial aid has 
23 for its administration of a letter of intent form used by been granted and Hie matter 
financial aid to student athletes. coach Ara Parseghian for six centers around use of the letter The Fighting Irish basketball The committee, meeting in San years "with the full approbation of intent form. 
outlook took a turn for the worseFrancisco Aug. 20, said a form of the athletic department." Krause said his department three weeks ago when guardoffering aid to student athletes The form has occasionally used feels the form is "well within both forward Doug Gemmell fractured 
and issued by the head football by other ND coaches, Krause the letter and spirit of NCAA coach places administration of said. legislation. his left leg in two places. the aid in the hands of the coach The form will be amended to The fractures were caused rather than the Office of The letter of intent is signed by conform with NCAA Constitution when Gemmell was in an accident Financial Mfairs. the athlete and Parseghian, and 3-4(A) which prohibits the award 
while riding a motorcycle nearThe resolution of censure "is a conditional thing" pending of financial aid by any source his Irvington,N.J. home.
called for an immediate halt to the athlete's acceptance by the other than a university's regular Gemmell, .a senior, probablythe mehod. university, Krause said. financial aid body. 
DOUG GEMMELL 

will be sidelined for the entire 26 game season. His injury was limited to fractures.


Irish to go all the way Playboy 
Coach Digger Phelps said Gemmell wiJl be missed because Irish fans from the subway tenders are: 79 yard romp against Navy. 
of his experience.
alumni in New York City to the Pat Steenbergeis a six-foot,one Defensively, Playboy has no In two varsity seasons Gem­most rah rah frosh can take their inch 175 pound junior .who com­comment other than, "There are 
choice of two preseason polls-­
mell appeared in 43 games,
piled more than 40 minutes some pro coaches who would like 
Playboy or UPI. scored 164 points and grabbed 147
playing time as the understudy to to swap defensive units." Playboy has placed Notre Joe Theismann. He roled up 45 The issue also has pictures ... of rebounds. He made 36 percent of 
Dame first, or to put it another its 1971 preview offensive and
yards on 15 rushes and completed his field shots in the 1970-71 way, 19 places ahead of Texas. 
seven of 15 passes for 98 yards. defensive All American team. seasons and 50 percent of his free UPI in its first preseason He was seven for 18 passing in the Three Irish made defense: end, throws.
coaches' poll has ranked the Irish Blue-Gold game accounting for Walt Patulski; tackle, Mike
No. 2, or to put it another way, Phelps, named coach of the
113 yards. Kadish and back, Clarence Ellis. 
one place behind Nebraska. year for district 2 of the National 
Jim Bulger is a six-foot, five Wide receiver Tom GatewoodThe September issue of one of inch, 200 pound junior who was named to the offensive unit. Association for Collegiatewidely campus
the more read completed his first varsity pass -The top ten playboy teams are: Basketball, said Wednesday that
favorites, also names coach Ara a 37 yard bomb -in the Cotton Notre Dame, Nebraska, Southern he has no plans as yet forParseghian as their September 
Bowl. He received the Hering California, Michigan, Georgia, replacing Get;nmell. 
nomination for coach of the year. 
Award as the most improved Syracuse, Arkansas, Oklahoma,
Playboy's analysis claims the ARA PARSEGHIAN Phelps, who turned a mediocre
offensive player this spring and Auburn and Penn State. 
Irish have only one problem, to have a hunch Brown will make Fordham team into a national
threw a touch down pass during The UPI poll and point totalsfind a quarterback. 
big waves his first season." the Blue-Gold game. is: Nebraska, 299; Notre Dame, contender last seaon, was ap-Calling Parseghian "the best Brown is a six foot, 185 pound Bill Etter is a six-foot, two inch 254; Texas, 219; Southern pointed May 4.
coach of quarterbacks," it ap­sophomore who directed every senior weighing 185 pounds. He California, 183; Michigan, 146; He is faced with a youngpears the mag for men thinks offensive play for last season's was sidelined last year by a non­Tennessee, 129; Auburn, 105; inexperienced team, one of the"big sleeper" Cliff Brown will get frosh. He connected on 42 of 98 injury. as the
football Slated 
LSU, 90; Oklahoma, 78 and Ohio toughest schedules in the nation,the job. pass attempts. During the spring 
number two quarterback last
According to Playboy, Brown is Blue-Gold game he booted a 51 State, 78. and will have to replace four 
year, he set an Irish record in The Cornhuskers garnered 25 so loaded with natural talent yard field goal and put several 1969 by posting a 10.7 yard first place votes to Notre Dame's ·· start~rs lost to graduation, in­
"that even his inexperience may kick-offs out of the end zone. 
rushing average. He also made five. Texas did not receive a cludmg All-American Austinnot keep him off the first IJI?.it. We The other quarterback con-
the longest run of that season, a single first vote. Carr. 
WELCOME FRESHMEN 
The Gilbert's Campus Shop extends a sincere invitation to you to stop in and get acquainted ... everything is new for '71 ­'72; you'll find the latest in university­styled apparel and accessories ... suits, sportcoats, shoes, boots, shirts, sweaters, a wide selection of slacks and jeans in­cluding the double knits and cords. You'll see famous brands names you know and trust. The only thing that isn't new is the perwnnel . . . we couldn't improve on our staff ... they're here to help you. 
BUY NOW ... PAY NEXT JANUARY, FEBRUARY AND MARCH 
With no interest or carrying charge added! 
GOOD NEWS, GALS! 
This year the Campus Shop has added a corner just for you . . . sportswear, blouses, hot pants, sweaters, panty hose and a lot of etc. Stop in look us over. 

. NOTRE DAME 






