
Vol. VI, No. 43 Serving the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Community Wednesday, November 10, 1071 
Dr. Hans Kung: 
Christ is 'soul' and 'challenge' 
"What is the soul of the Church?" could be Yet it is difficult to put Christ in any by Art Ferranti answered. class of a revolutionary nature since He 
Noted theologian and author Dr. Hans Kung's answer to that latter question was definitely not violent," Kung said. Kung, last night asserted that Christ is was, "Jesus himself." But Dr. Kung Christ's message, said Kung, was that both "soul of the church" and "a challenge argued that "we must get the proper view God was the end of history, and in the to the church" in a two hour lecture to a of Christ--is He the Christ of our dreams meantime man must "follow the norm." ncar-capacity crowd at St. Mary's or the Christ of History?" So, he said, This norm is the "Will of God," said the O'Laughlin Auditorium. "Who and What is Christ'?" To answer the theologian. According to Kung, when 
Dr. Kung, a citizen of Switzerland, drew above two questions on Jesus, Dr. Kung asked what the "Will of God" was by the his conclusion after a lengthly evaluation said that He "is the decisive factor bet-people of the time, Christ said that it is the of church thought, beginning with a ween God and Man" and that a Christian is ·"good of man." This statement "in-discussion of social changes in the world a person who believes this. terconnected both man and God," he said, since he last spoke here in 1963. He con-"making it impossible to be against either tended not all problems visable today were statement." That is where "the real visible eight years ago. Hence, according ,., \: revolution" took place, said the Swiss to Kung, the Church has had to change. He lecturer. cited what he termed the "change in the Christ also "denied the absolute Catholic Church" as a move to understand •"'\ measures of the law and the Temple," others and to unite in doctrine with other Kung said, seeking not to overthrow the beliefs. law or Temple but to "become freer and 
He said that the Church is now con-liberated within it sidering the problems of ,am "seriously" Christ also "denied the absolute and he sees "growth in freedom" to seek measures of the law and Temple," Kung the truth in the Church. But the theologian said, seeking not to overthrow the Jaw or said that the most significant problem in Temple but to "become freer and liberated the Church is a "definite lack of spiritual within it." According to Kung, Christ leadership." According to Kung, this lack announced that He was on "the side of the is seen in the (parochial) "school crisis" weak" since He defined one's neighbor as and in the fact that five priests are now "the person who needs you." Jesus ad-leaving the priesthood for every two vocated "forgiveness over punishment," seminarians ordained. He also held that Dr. Hans Kung • Kung said again denying but not over­"the priests and the bishops differ on throwing the law. practically every major issue." In Kung's words, it is "important to Kung asserted that the "people of the 
According to Kung, the Church's major realize that Christ was real as a person law realized that if His teachings were problem is to determine "What is who lived approximately 2,000 years ago. believed," Christ would become a primary." "If we <the Catholic Church) Dr. Kung said that He was "provocative to "challenge to the whole religious-social recognize other religions, he asked, "Why both conservatives and liberals, nearer to system," that so Jesus "had to be do we have missions?" God than priests," and yet was not a liquidated." According to the theologian, it 
If all mankind is concerned with peace priest, "freer than the aschetics in that He was the law that was behind Christ's and Jove and so on," is not Christianity as a accepted invitations by any class of death. "It is a fact," Dr. Kung said. "thAt faith "superfluous?" He asserted that this people," and "more revolutionary than the real movement in the followinj;( of '---q:!:u:;e:s:;,tt:.:;.o::,:n~c:.:;o:,:u:.:;ld:.:b:.e.:a:.::n:.sw:.:e.:.;re:;;d:..:,:if..:t;;,;h:,e..;q~u:.;;e::s::ti,::.on:.:...._..:.re:.v..;o;;;.lu;;;.t;;;,io:.:n:.:a:.:r;;;.ie:.:s:.:.._"___________________...:.;fC:;;,;o:;.;n,;.;t;,;,;in.;.:;ued on a e 9J 
Minority recruitment at ND 
·---------------------------·­
N·umbers are not important 
recruitment of minority students, Saraceno said that he was
Jerry Lutkus minds on these trips are those 
Dan Saraceno. Saraceno says, looking for students who were schools which always give us 

(This is the second part of a "I'm no huckster, I'm just in­interested in Notre Dame. "I'm good students and secondly, four part series concentrating on viting kids to come here. Of representing Notre Dame, not chicanos and blacks." the minority recruitment policies eourse, I'm prejudiced toward Whites or Blacks or Chicanos. I Goldrick and Wycliff both
Notre Dame, but I also realize guess in this way Blacks and

of Notre Dame. Today's in­emphasized that in the past year, 
the this is what are lulled a

stallment covers Office of that place not Chicanos not into a great deal of attention has been Admissions and their part in the Pveryone wants." false sense of security--the payed to schools in the intercity. 
recruitment of students.) During the past month, security that there will always be Goldrick recapped the shortSaraceno took a two week tour, 
someone here to turn to---the history of the minority recruit-... .John Goldrick is the young man talking to high school students security that comes to a Black ment at Notre Dame. "The issue who runs the Office of Ad­about Notre Dame. He visited assuming he will be surrounded came a to
to head," accordingthe Southwest <El Paso, Tuscon, hy Blacks for four years."

missions and the question of Goldrick, "in 1968 when the Afro­
Phoenix, etc.) where he spoke tominority recruitment is one that American students presentedmany Chicano-populated in­is v<•ry important to him. "The their demands to Hesburgh. At Don Saracenostitutions, including a school in

impetus for minority recruitment got started in '68 that time we really got started is there," he said when I ln­
Santa Fe which was 100 per cent into it." The office, however, has noC'hieano. Included in his tripterviewt>d him yesterday, "but we part in the recruiting of lht• 

were stops at Indian reservations Last year, Goldrick and

must remPmhcr that the im­The Admissions Office is Athletic Department. Wycliff
portanee is not in numbers, hut in in Arizona and the Dakotas. Student Body President Dave
eomprised of six members, all of ealls the Athletic Department "a what happens when the students whom take these recruiting trips. Drashna set up the kingdom unto itself". Goldrick 
gpt lwrc." organizational structure for the
Goldrick estimates that the re-emphasized that there is
program which came to be called 

''I sec our job as one of members are all on the road for "absolutely no" connection
RAP <Recruitment Aid Program). The organization was presPnting the university as it is, 
at least 4 weeks a year. The between these departments. 

as a primarily academic com­recruiting trips are broken up In fact, late last year, the
created to recruit all minorities.

munity," Goldrick said. "The into geographical areas. Each Athletic Department approached
This year. RAP is headed by Carluniversity is a place for in­member has a particualr area. the Admissions Office with a 

tellectual and personal growth." This way each high school Ellison and Vansetta Childs. request to give aid to a student
can Dan Wycliff. a young, in­write to one person in the Ad­"who they did not want to waste a 
IPIIectual, affable black man, is missions Office. observer insight grant on," according to Goldrick. om• of the members of Goldrick's 
Goldrick mentioned that "we The director of admissions was offiec. lie commented that have requested the alumni if we On campus, the Admissions forced to refuse. ··wht.•n we accept a student, as might visit schools, but the op­Office aids students who come Wvc tiff, however, perhaps
far as we can tell, he is capable of posite is never true. We here in search of information. sumim•d up the view of the ~wrforming well in the academic generally write ahead, hut the The recruiting session that departnwnt best. "When peoplesituation here. When we reject a ~ ~­alumni has never plotted which MECHA held on Saturday was have a easse such as minoritystudent we feel he would not be schools we should recruit." aided by the Admissions Office, recruitment, they look at num­
.......,i!-&''711

capable. It is a judgement in his On these trips, the rule of which picked up the food bill for he,·s--gross statistics. We've sake as well as our own." thumb is to keep an eye out for the students. Theoffice also gotta look at the individual 
-.._., !1;,_.........

The office has a member who good students, according to helped arrange speakers for the standing. We've gotta look at the spPcifically concentrates on the John Goldrick Saraceno. "In the back of our nweting. pPrson." 


Page 2 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, November 10, 1071 
Critic Roger Ebert to speak tonight 
Hoger Ebert, movie critic for the Chicago Sun Times, will speak in the Flanner Hall Lounge on Wednesday, November 10. Time Magazine called Ebert, "Chatty, erudite". 
Time's profile also noted that Saturday Review film critic Arthur Knight called Ebert "a cultural resource of the com­munity." Time added: "The phrase fits. Ebert is a community critic; he is not, as he disdain­fully phrases it, 'an emissary 
rrom some outside theory or 
ta~:~~·iune 18, 1942,in Urbana, 
Ill., Ebert was in high school 

reviews a week, which are 
In June, 1970, Ebert's first
1963 Overseas Press Club award 

studied at the University of Cape distributed to more than 100 other screenplay, "Beyond the Valley
for best reporting on world af­

Town in South Africa on a Rotary newspapers, and a Sunday "think of the Dolls," opened in theaters
fairs in a college daily. He also 

Fellowship. He also did graduate piece." Ebert has done free-lance 
across the country. The film was,
won the Associated Collegiate 

work at the University of articles for The New York Times, 
according to Ebert, "a camp,
Press Award for Excellence and 

J<:squire, Reader's Digest,
Chicago. sexploitation, horror musical."
the 1964 Chicago Headline Club 

In 1966 Ebert joined the Sun­Holling Stone, Chicagoland, and 
Ebert teaches a film criticism
award as the most promising 
other publications.

Times as a reporter and feature course in the fine arts program at
graduate of a journalism school 

writer. His stories frequently Ebert's book, "An Illini Cen­the University of Chicago. A
in Illinois. 
appeared in the newspaper's tury," was published in May, 

frequent guest speaker at
Ebert graduated from Illinois 

Midwest magazine and Showcase \967. Mark Van Doren, who wrote 
universities, Ebert has lectured
in 1964 with a B.S. degree in 

section. In April, 1967, he was the forward, called the book "a 
at Yale, Southern California,
journalism. He continued there in 

named movie critic. lively record" of undergraduate 
Northwestern and Northern
graduate work and during 1965 

In addition to an average of five life. Illinois. 
Complaints o:bout scheduling policy


Movl·e co.mpetl• tl•on causes hassle 
when he began his newspaper
career as a reporter for the Champaign-Urbana News-
G tt I 1960 he entered the aze e. n
University of Illinois and from
t kl
1961 to 1964 wro e a wee Y column on the arts for the Daily
d t
Illini, the stu en newspaper.During his senior year, he was editor of the Illini and president
d t P
of the U.S. Stu en ress Association. 
While at the university, Ebert received the 1960 Illinois Associated Press first-place award for sportswriting and the 

Re idy s a y s 
Use Ace tenn1•s cQU rts 
by Mike O'Hare Th · ltaneous showt"ng of 
e stmu
the "Sterile Cuckoo" this past
d k d th l t t
weeken mar e e a es hassle in a series of problems
· · 
conc~rnmg campus,movtes.
This weekend s trouble stemmed from the fact that both 
· h f c 1 b d th 
the Kmg ts o o urn us an e Finance Club showed the "Sterile Cuckoo" on Friday and Saturday nights. 
Bob Walton of the Knights of Columbus, said that the trouble 
. I


g 1r s may 
by Mick Kane 
Use of the indor tennis courts of the Athletic and Convocation Center by girls has been ap­proved, according to St. Mary's Chaplain Fr. Ned Reidy. The revelation was made at a Sexism iscussion last night in Augusta Hall. 

Policy e-xplained pg 4 
The discussion, one of a series, concerned itself with the role of women in Athletics, and featured ND Karate club coach Dennis Calahan as guest speaker. 
"I was very pleased and ex­cited to learn that the indoor tennis courts have now been approved for use by St. Mary's girls," claimed Fr. Reidy, who was active in the fight to allow girls to use the Convo. "This came as a complete surprise to me being that there was no in­dication of this as of a few days ago." 
Fr. Reidy expressed hope that this may set a president for use of the other facilities in the future. 
Calahan, in his talk, claimed that karate was one sport at which a girl is at a distinct advantage. 
"While a man is more likely to display himself in a beastly manner, the charles Atlas type, a woman is more physically suited to perform with grace and finess," Calahan said, adding that "karate is not a sport of muscle building but rather of muscle toning." 
Discussion centered on the problem of women shying away from many sports for fear of losing their "femine mystique" and becoming muscle bound. 
"It doesn't sound very ap­pealing to say 'let's go jog and really work up a sweat' as would emphasizing the artistic ex­pressionism of playing tennis," Fr. Reidy commented. 
Fr. Reidy announced that he plans to organize a booth in the dining halls at St. Mary's to in­form the students of activities available. 

New York--President Nixon, speaking at .a Republican dinner here Tuesday night, said that the world peace he believes is in sight would be imperiled if the Senate fails to restore the Foreign Aid Program.
Nixon also chided Congress for not acting on his domestic programs. Washington--A House subcommittee investiing the plight of Soviet Jews was told by a State Department witness Tuesday that Jews in the Soviet Union were not living in a state of terror nor had their condition worsened in recent years. In its testimony, the department spokesman said he was attempting to counter the impression that Soviet Jews were undergoing unusual ordeals. United Nations, N.Y.--Three members of the six-man ChineseAd­vance Party went to the United Nations for the first time where they conferred with officials and met with other diplomats. It was also announced Tuesday that the full delegation would arrive Thursday afternoon and would include two journalists who would open an office here. 
New Y~rk--Unions whose members lost wage increases during the freeze announced plans to make special claims to the pay board for exceptons from the retroactive adjustment restriction included in the wage guidelines. 
Washington--Congressional action on two bills designed to provide more than $7 billion for the training of more doctors, dentists, nurs and 
d . 
was caused by the ba practices 
· d" "b ·d
of the movie tstn utor. He sa1 
that the K of C ordered the 
.. . . ,
Stenle Cuckoo last year but that the d.tstn·butor sent. the movie to the Finance Club 
anyway. . 

· Accordmg to Walton, distributors normally do not send 
· "f ·
the same movte 1 a pnor group has ordered it, until the first group has shown the movie. 
Walton wants to draw up a proposal to prevent a recurrence of last weekend's problem . 
Basically, the proposal would require groups ordering films to 
· t" t F th Bl t
giVe no tee o a er an z,
Vice-President of Student Af­fairs. Groups could then check with Fr. Blantz's office before ordering movies and thus guarantee that the same movie will not be shown by two different groups at the same time. 
Steve Flood, President of the Finance Club, could not be reached for comment. 
Walton wants campus movies to be handled through the office of the Vice-President of Student Affairs because it would be neutral. He felt that the Student Union may be prejudiced 


on campus 
3:30 lecture--an overview of the cornell mechanical engineering design involvement, dr. 
h.n. mcmanus, cornell university. room 303 engineering building. sponsor: mechanical engineering 
4:30 symposium--sense and insense: fakes. richard raymond alaska, smc art department dr. timothy g. binkley, nd philosophy. carroll hall. admission: $1.50 all sessions; $.50 per lecture 


today 
towards their own groups Walton 
. · 
said that the Kmghts of Columbus 
· d d "Ch t b t
1 , 
or ere ar Y 1as year u
that the Contemporary Arts
C . . h d th . 
ommiSSton s owe e movte
. d 
mste_a · M t p "d t f th 
Bnan as ro, rest en o e
Washington-Maryland-VirginiaCl b t d d 'th t "th St d t 
u. con en te t a et tu tehn 
Umon wan s o pro ec e
A t C C~nt_emr.or~ryt ~l s d ~~t IT_liSSIOhn. CAC~s ro ta fe~e U . a 
0
~tm~e t ~l dl\par ~ ~~~~ 
1 
Ish_a ~we .f feservd ~h Was. mg. on d~1 . an the Engme~r~ntgT~u c~cg~m ?;th e same mlg . ef th b ~lds_ai edn 
uses on y one o e Ul mgs an
b d f d d
0
can ~.assure re uce 
competition. . 
M_astro co~plamed about havmg to obtam. approval from the Student Umon to show a movie. 
He said "There is a check on what movies I can show, but there is no check on what movies 
the Student Union can show." 
Mastro feels that the geographic clubs are important and that they are not being treated fairly. 
other complaints include the fact that the CAC has dates reserved for movies in April, yet 
DETROIT CLUB 
THANKSGIVING 
BUS SIGNUPS 
Nov. 9,10 7-9 pm 
11 7 Stanford 8603 
$10 m~mbers 
$15 non-member 

have not decided what movie will 
b M t a s that he 
e s110wn. as ro s Y
has rarely received more than a 
d . .
week~ a. vanced_ !lottce m
grantmg htm perm ss on to show a movie. He says 1this1 prevents hik. from obtaining any big box office attraction, since these 
are reserved far in advance ' In solving this problem Ma.stro 
· •
advocates a lottery in deter­mining on what dates clubs should have their movies He also feels that Fr Shilts Assistant Vice-President of student Affairs should be involved in this area 
These factors Mastro believes. 
would make the whole procedur~
.
in obtaining movies fatrer. 
0 MAGIC~


'\\' J a \ 
o~~ 
stuperfying Natural PHENOMENON 
The\. 
Swir lin~ ;:, 

wi~~m':~e 
you WHAT is it? liquid satin locked inside a bottle 
\ CURIOUS? yellow, red, green choose your color Supply th~ bottle. and it will he 
molded to your specifications 

THAT BEEF PLAC 
Ham & Beef Sandwiches Snack & B r e a k fa s t 

THAT BEEF PLAC 
107 W. Wayne Street Across From the Library 7AM -7PM 
other professionsals was completed when the House passed them and 

sent them on to President Nixon. The bills athorize substantially more _ -.... 
money than the President had asked for. --· 


Labor threatened by Phase Two Progra1n 
accepted labor's proposal for and probably most important 

agreements. The government's freeze represents a windfall lei 1!171 Nt>w York Times non-governmental body regulate confrontation over wage concern about equity of sacrifice profit for employers. They are
wages but seized on it to create a guidelines, the two sides have between organized and also bitter about the precedent of system in which the unions would now compromised the numbers

Washington, Nov. !1--The Phase unorganized workers was met nullifying any portion of any
participate, but not dominate and the principles with which

Two stabilization machine is now with a decision to deny most contract. 
working exactly as President while the government gained th~ they began to negotiate. But retroactive increases claimed for So the pay board action that is postur.e of a disinterested Nixon has also advanced the
Nixon hoped it would: tightening the 90 days of total freeze on deemed by the White House to bereferee. cause of control over the unions.

the knot on future wage set­wages, prices and rents. 
a firm rein on inflation is beingThe nominally autonomous pay The 5.5 per cent standard fortlements and increasing the 

denounced by labor as a noose pressure on unions to acquiesce board has allowed the President future wage increases falls Winning the deferred increases around its neck. At least for the
to stand one step removed from neatly between 5 and 6 per cent while losing the retroactive
in the arrangement. 
moment, Nixon has gained the
the machinery that is working his figures aimed at by the govern­adjustments gave the unions the

That has been the essential upper hand in the conflict
will. But that machinery was ment and the unions. Labor's larger of the two packages in 

purpose of the whole complicated because he has managed to limit
always recognized as merely the concern about the sanctity of money terms. But the labor 

system of boards, commissions labor's freedom of maneuver and 
arena of struggle. Between the existing contracts was met with a leaders feel cheated because they 

and councils created to manage to raise still further the price of
administration and the leaders of pledge to honor most pay in­think most of the money ear­
open defiance.
the drive against inflation aft<'r 
<H ~· lfl· ,, •! workers. In their first creases still due under old marked for raises during the
Nov. 14. As the unhappy comments of labor suggest, the union heads believe thl'mselves the victims of a pow£•r play, but they see no easy way out of their predicament. 
The President began, on Aug. 15, by quickly demonstrating broad public support for the very idea of urgent government action to conquer inflation. Nixon 
f:'ven signed away any desire to "veto" the rulings of the pay hoard, but he then appointed five public members whom he trusted to press his concept of the public interest and not merely to 

l 



OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (()mmunity 
Wednesday, November 10, 1971 Second Front Page 
Pope hails third Synod 
"The Synod undoubtedly has a priesthood. 
lei 1!171 New York Times place in the modern Church," The third Synod, which lasted 
Horne, Nov. 7 -Pope Paul VI said Bishop Alexander Carter of five weeks and was attended byhailt•d the third Synod of Bishops Canada, "But I do not think we more than 200 Bishops, Eastern today as an important event that havediscovered what that place Rite Patriarchs and heads of is "l'£•rtainly destined to have a is." male religious orders, dealt with grl.'at impact on the life of the The Synod of Bishops is an two themes -the priesthood and Chureh and also on that of the advisory body that was set up at world justice.world." the end of the Second Vatican 
On the former, the SynodAs Synod delegates prepared to Council of 1962 to 1965 as a way of fathers reaffirmed the traditional l<'aVl' for home after yesterday's implementing the principle of sacramental role of the priestdosing ceremonies, however, it collegiality, or government of the and made it clear that the was evident that there is Church by the Pope in con­
And now labor finds itself with much of what it wanted, though not all, formally imposed by 10 votes against its 5. What can it do to resist? 
Meany is hard-pressed first, because the ranks of labor may not be solid. The teamsters leader, Frank Fitzsimmons is an uncert ain ally, even inside the pay board. Moreover, many rank-and-file members may accept the claims of equity in the control arrangements, as the administraiton contends. 

Bishops of the world have no New Procedure Causes Delay
widespn•ad disagrl'ement among sultation with the Bishops of the 
intention of abandoning the rule
tlwm on what this "impact" will­world. 
forbidding priests to marry.
or l.'ven should -be. The first two Synods in 1967 and 
They left the door open. however. 
Northem Ireland: the 
Many expressed 1969 dealt with the questions 
to Papal initiatives toward the
diseouragenwnt over the con­ranging from Church policy on 
ordination of already married 

situation as it stands
fuson that marked debates on mixed marriage to the nature of 
men in situations of serious priest 
celibacy and criticized the collegiality. Among Synod year toothache. Direct rule would 
shortages. (CI 1971 New York Times
docunll'nts that emerged as suggestions that have already be like going to the dentist. It will
On the question of justice, they News Service
"lll<'diocre." Others saw even been implemented by Pope Paul hurt for awhile but we'll get used 
urged the setting up of a com­
thl.'se rwgative signs as evidence was the formation of an In­Belfast, Northern Ireland, Nov. to it."
mission to study whether women
that the Homan Catholic Church !l.'rnational Theological Com­9--Torn by a new surge of urban Although the half-million 
are accorded their proper rights
is moivng toward a more moving rnrsston. To study important guerrilla warfare, Northern Roman Catholic minority in
in the Church and criticized
styll' of government. issues such as the nature of the Ireland is confronting the major Northern Ireland yearns for
church identification with the 
social and political crisis of its 50-unification with the Irish
wealthy rather than the poor in 
year history. Republic to the south, the im­
some situations. At a time when 
White House pleased. Government officials, Roman mediate aim of Catholic leaders
the Vatican is becoming 
Catholics and protestants, is an end to the Stromont
noticeably cooler to ecumenical 
moderates and extremists on parliament, which they view as·
labor angered by new program ties-the Synod fathers also urged 
both sides agree that Ulster faces dedicated to protestant
working persons of all faiths in 
a dramatic political shift that will dominance.
during the freeze except under the search for justice. 
result in London's assuming new The million protestants in
Washington, Nov. 9--The White special circumstances. As advisers, it cannot be said 
initiatives and powers in the Northern Ireland--who fear that
!louse declared itself "op­Various members of the pay that the delegates offered Pope 
tormented province of the United the Republic in the south will
timistic" today over the progress board commenting today on the Paul many new ideas, "They 
Kingdom. eventually engulf them--view
of President Nixon's economic board's new policy, indicated confirmed his policies," said one 
At the highest level of the direct rule as a first step toward 
program, while George Meany that the wage guideline would be high Vatican official. 
protestant-dominated provincial unification.
and other labor leaders sharply applied very flexibly. They made Several Bishops felt that the 
government there is growing What sparked the current crisis 
dt•nounced the wage policies the following points: way the Synod went about af­
anxiety that the semi­in Northern Ireland was the wave
dt'Ciared last night by the pay --Some members of the board firming the status quo was un­
independent parliament at of arson, bombings and killings
hoard. l'xpressed the belief that major fortunate. 
Stormont Castle will be that followed the government's
Labor sources said, however, 1971 contract negotiations that The final document was firm in 
suspended and some form of internment measures to rootout
that labor representatives would are still unresolved--including its conclusion, to keep the present 
direct rule from London will take the Irish Republican Army. Since 
attend when the pay board those of coal workers, celibacy rule, but many regarded 
its place. With that the internment began, three
reconvenes on Thursday to begin longshoremen, aerospace and the theological underpinnings as 
precarious dominance of the months ago today, a total of 96
drawing up rules that will govern apparel workers--cannot be fuzzv and thus feared that the 
million Ulster protestants over persons have ~een killed, in­
wage controls after the freeze. "realistically" limited by the 5.5 decision will be open to the 
the half-million Catholics will cluding 61 civilians, 28 soldiers
Meanwhile, democratic guideline. charge of arbitrariness. 
topple. and seven policemen.
leaders in congress said they It was felt that considerations The resulting document was by 
"It is now a erunch situation," The most recent incident oc­
may support legislation requiring such as length of time since the and large a statement of general 
one senior official in the Northern curred shortly before 5 p.m.
Pmployers to pay all wages last contract agreement, principles and, like the document 
Ireland government said today. today when a British soldier was
withheld during the freeze, which ehang~d in the cost _of living, .on the priesthood, must be 
"There is a feeling among shot and killed by a sniper.
l'nds at midnight Saturday. questions of equrty and polished up by the Vatican before 
protestants--a real feeling-of the Bl'lfast itself is now a stricken
The board voted by a 10-to-5 traditional relationships· with being released. 
possibility of betrayal by city. Shops and pubs are boarded
margin yesterday, with the five other sectors of the economy There was also almost 
Westminster." up at dusk. Buses stop running at
labor mt•mbers dissenting, for a would allow wage settlements universal agreement among 
Tom Conaty, Chairman of the 9:30p.m. Airline service into the
program of controls including a eonsiderably higher than 5.5 per delegates that the Synod's 
Central Citizens Defense com­city is curtailed. By night, the
5.5 percent guideline for new cent in these cases. procedures need a major 
mittee, a powerful group in the city's darkened main street,
wag£• increases; the payment, --Concessions of work rules overhaul. Many complained that 
Catholic ghetto, said: "This thing Royal Avenue, is eerily silent
following the freeze, of most made by rail unions to the there was too much speech­
is going to break. It won't go on. l'xcept for the rumble of armored 
wages due under existing con­railroads may be considered 
making and not enough real 
We're sick of violence but it's ears and voices crackling over
tracts; and the withholding of justification for retroactive debating, that minority views 
going to continue unless Stromont military radios. Business in the
is abolished. ' 
THE OBSERVER Wednesday, November 10, 1071 
Andrus, without whose untiring 
====Ietters to the e d 1· tor======~!~~s~~~:v~~~c:r~~ei~o~~~;~~ 
Editor: 

I'd like to say that I think Miss Kerr's article "Football Game" is perhaps one of the best pieces that has ever found its way to the Observer's Editorial Page. I found extremely well written and interesting. I think too, that something should be said to all the Debbie Kerrs that spent their Saturday afteoon the way she did, as well as all the students who didn't go to the game--you truly represent the good that makes Notre Dame a place to be proud you're from. Sincerely Michael J. Murphy 
Editor: 
To John Barkett: 
So you're tired of the Parietal issue, Barkett. I imagine Nixon's tired of the Vietnam issue, not that they are comparable, except perhaps, the correlation between you and Nixon. Why don't you call a spade a spade! You have failed and you've made asses out of the SLC, the HPC, and the students while doing it. But the important thing is to save your image; so now you're tired of the issue. You've declared the soft line of pacifism as the mature mode of responsibility. 
You, Barkett, are irrespon­sible. Your real responsibility lies in representing the students. They went along with your 'wait and see' policy and got kicked in the teeth. Now they want action 
from their leaders and un­
fortunately, you are the main 
man. People elected you because they had other things to do and you said you had the time and inclination. But now you are tired! Well then, get out. You might be a great committee member or secretary or ac­countant, but you are no leader. 

Next time you bend over and kiss somebody's posterior we don't want it to be representative. 
And each time you do it, more people are going to sicken of the taste. Not the people involved and enchanted in your beuracracies; but the real students, who go to lunch and read about your misplacedresponsibility. 

You think you're tired now? Well just remember the students are sick and tired. 
Glenn V. Sorge 
Senator, Alumni 
Dear Editor: 
As of last week we SMC women were notified that our presence in the ACC was not appreciated and would not be tolerated. 
For the past five weeks we have been taking Karate there as full-fledged members of the Notre Dame Karate Club. We have paid our dues, purchased uniforms, and gone to classes diligently. We put in a con­siderable amount of time there and worked just as hard as any of the gentlemen. 
Now, we are just supposed to very politely forget it and throw all our hard work right out the door. Who is going to reimburse us, if that is even possible? 
We can't understand why girls 

ACC courts gop ublic 
John Plouff, manager of the Athletic and Convocation Center, yesterday said that there is no change in ACC policy about woman's use of the facility. He said, though, that the indoor tennis courts will soon be open to the public of South Bend and the surrounding areas. 

Plouff said this in clarification of a statement made by Fr. Ned Reidy Monday night in a discussion at Augusta Hall. Reidy had claimed that the tennis courts in the ACC would now be open to SMC girls. 
Reclaim tickets 
Thursday, November 12 is the last and only day on which students may reclaim the football tickets that they donated for the children of South Bend. The tickets may be picked up from 
1:00 to 4 : 00 at he second floor ticket window of the Convocation Center. 
To reclaim the tickets students must present the receipts they were given upon tuning in their tickets. u students do not pick up their tickets, they will not be able to attend the Tulane game. Students who turned their tickets in at the Student Union offices may pick up their tickets on any afternoon between the hours of 1 and 5. 

The Convo manager stated that this was not entirely true. He commented that the ACC is returning to the schedule they used last year where anyone could use the couts. The courts must be reserved through the ACC issue room and users would pay the regular rental fee. He emphasized that this policy is "the same thing as last year." 
A1pha Phi Omega lbnates poceeds 
by D. Patrick Rock 

Sister Marita 's Day School received a $450 check last week from the National Service Fraternity, Alpha Phi Omega sources from the school revealed yesterday. The fraternity has scheduled itself to give a second check of $250 to Camp Milhouse, a summer camp for the physically handicapped and mentally retarded. 
APO has been renting Mini­Kool refrigerators this fall and the proceeds, totalling $800 have been designated to the two organizations. 
APO President Ray DeCarlo, said that the money given to Camp Milhouse will be used for improvements in the camp and general operating expenses at Sr. Marita's. 

won't be permitted to use the facilities of the ACC. Actually, we haven't used any equipment, and we never stepped foot inside a lockerroom. The only thing we utinlize is the auxiliary gym floor, upon which we stand. Why should this cause any grief? We're only in there for an hour and a half three nights a week. What harm can this do? The invasion of the sacred grounds of the ACC by girls, what a dreadful thought! It hasn't done a damn thing to anyone. 
Even though legal unification won't be accomplished for some time, better coordination of the facilities should be considered. Sure, the Rockne Memorial is open for swimming, but there are some people who would like to participate in something other than that, such as karate. It's great activity. 
If we SMC girls aren't Nc:>tre Dame students, as such, please explain the meaning of the in­signia, "University of Notre Dame" on the left side of our identification cards. Doesn't this have any meaning? Why deny us a privilege that should be within our rights? 
Sincerely, 
Mary Beth Jones Mary C. Caffrey Susan M. Sarcone 
Editor: 
Re: "fearless bowl predic­tions". The name of this new bowl out west is the Fiesta Bowl. 

W. Rowe Sergent Arizona State University out West 
Editor, 
We would like to take this opportunity to publicly express our sincere appreciation for the generosity of a large number of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. Especially deserving of praise are Jack Candon and Eric spending a day on campus and attending a Notre Dame football game. The program made it possible for 18 children from the Family and Children's Center in Mishawaka to participate. 

Also, we commend and thank the students who unselfishly donated their tickets, and those who were patient and un­derstanding when their pre­arranged seating was disturbed. A note of appreciation goes to the Athletic Dept., coaches, players, and the ticket manager for their important contribution to the program's success. 
We feel confident that we speak for the children here and all those others who attended the game in thanking Jack, Eric, and all the others who made the program possiblew. 
Sincerely, 
John E. Winston Patrick J. McDonough 
Dear Editor: 
One thing important at a college football game is the spirit of the student body. And Notre Dame has a spirit that can't be beat. One thing I noticed in Pittsburgh at the Pitt-ND game Saturday, Pittsburgh has no spirit. When only one-fourth of the student body remained in the fourth quarter, I wondered where the spirit was. Pitt was losing but does one take away his support for his team when the team lets him down? Of course not which is why Notre Dame supporters have true spirit. If our team loses, as it did a few weeks ago to USC, the students are still there. That's spirit --staying until the end of the game --even if bitter and sad because they lost or joyful because they won --it's staying and cheering for your team because they tried, they played a game for you! 
I'd like to see one football game where no one leaves until the end --I'd like to see it Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium for many outstanding and deserving players at Notre Dame and they should get what they deserve -a cheering, final good bye from their supporters -especially the students. 
Kris Anhut 212 Holy Cross SMC 4295 
\NY ND or SMC 
Parking Sticker Will 
Get You 



~i·P 

10 % OFF 
n any ' mechanical 
ork and winterizing 

snow tires included) 

Roseland Gulf 
02 U.S. 31 North Across 
from Burger King 

THEOLOGY Department & Student Union Academic Commission Present 
"The Phenomenon of Man: Overview" An expository illustrated slide · lecture on the thought & philosophy of Teilhard de Chardin 
Wed ., Nov. 10 · 8: 00 p m 
Library auditorium 



Feel lost, 
out of it • • 

Find it at 
The 


Hideaway Lounge 
this week, we give you • • • 
''The Robert's Brothers'' 
Monday thru Saturday 
8 pm till 3 am Wed. Ladies night, Ladies Free, Guys $1.00 122 W. First Street Downtown, M ishwaka 
Notre Dame -Saint Mary's Theatre present Noel Cowards 

BLITHE SPIRIT 
Washington Hall 8:30pm November 12, 13, 18, 19, 20 
Tickets $2. Faculty, students Notre Dame -St. Mary's staff $1.50. Ticket information at 284·4141 or Box Office 284-7054. 
--~----~~-­
I
I 


Wednesday, November 10, 1971 THE OBSERVER. Peps 
Annual fall Senior Weekend announced 
by Rob Higgins 
SPnior Bar will be opened and is 

Holler Derby, the "Death featuring a local rock group, The March", the Last Hurrah, and an Chapped Lips. Old Ficldhousl.' Pep Rally will Schmidt commented on the highlight the annual fall Senior change, "Ordinarily the bar is W(•ekend, Senior Class Treasurer not opend on Thursday because Bill Schmidt announced thP turnout would be small, but yesterday. lwca use this is the last football 
ThP five day gala event opens weekend for the seniors we ex­tonight with the Roller Derby in pect a large vociferous crowd." the ACC after which the Senior The annual senior "Death Bar will he open to Officially March," the famous progression kickoff the weekend. Smith from local bar to local bar will Pncouraged all the seniors to begin at 3:00 PM Friday. The attend the big contest between march is scheduled to end at the the Bay Bombers and the Jolters Senior Bar where the parade to and then to congregate at the the old Fieldhouse pep rally will SPior Bar afterward. Women are begin. also cordially invited. Following the pep rally, Sch­
Policy will be somewhat midt emphasized that all are altered Thursday night as the invited to a party at the Armory. 
ND-SMC Art Symposium 
The Saint Mary's and Notre In October 1970, Pomerantz Dame art departments are organized the exhibition "Know 
sponsoring "Sense and Insense: What You See," an examination 

l<'akes," a symposium discussing of paintings by photooptical"authenticity" today and toorrow techniques for the Renaissance at Carroll Hall, Madeleva Society of the University of 
Memorial. 

Chicago. Pomerantz is also the 
Hichard-Raymond Alasko, a moderator for the panelSaint Mary's art instructor, will discussion after his lecture. give the opening address at the Tomorrow, William A. Pettit,
symposium. Alasko feels that head of the foreign dept., of the "the sacredness of a great many Hare Coin Co. of Ameica will values Will come mw mspute anu speak on "Coins, Medals, a lot of corn will be cleared from Memorabilia, and Memorable the Notre Dame community as a Fraud." Pettit is presently
result of the series." governor of the Central States Immediately following Numismatic Society and second Alasko's talk, Dr. Timothy vice president of the Chicago
Binkley from the Notre Dame Coin Club. philosophy dept., will speak on John Keefe, assistant curator, "The Heal Thing". This evening post Henaissance EuropeanLouis Pomerantz, an mdependent decorative art, Chicago Art In­
conservator and consultant to stitute, will be speaking on "The museums and private collectors, 19th Century: Revivals and will lecture on "Know What You Frauds." See." 
SENSE AND INSENSE: FAKES (A SYMPOSIUM DISCUSSING 'AUTHENTICITY') 
A program sponsored by the departments of art, Saint Mary's College and the University of Notrt> Dame 
Wednesday, 10 November 1971 Thursday, 11 November 1971 Carroll Hall, Madeleva Memorial Building, Saint Mary's College Campus 
Donation: $1.50, series; .50 individual lecture 
Wednesday: 

4:30p.m. Introduction and Opening Remarks Richard-Raymond Alasko 
4:50p.m. Timothy Brinkley (Department of Philosophy, U. Of N.D.) "The Real Thing" 
6:00p.m. Break 
7:30p.m. Louis Pomerantz (Conservator) "know What You See" 
8:30p.m. Panel discussion, participants: Anthony Lauck, C.S.C. (Director, University Gallery, N.D.) Marjorie Kinsey (Art Historian, Indiana University) Robery Leader (Professor of Art, U. of N.D.) 
P.J. Spheeris (Conservator, Indianapolis Museum of Art) 
Moderator: Louis Pomerantz 
The 5th Dimens ion 
appearing Saturday Nov. 13-8:30 PM 
Athletic and Convocation Center 
ND & SMC Discount 
Ticket Prices $5.50-No discount $4.50-Purchased for $3.50 $2.50 Purchased for $1.50 

Must present I D card for discount at the ACC Box Office 
ONLY 

co-sponsored by the Cape Cod­same nights in the Senior Bar. In answer to an inquiry about Toledo-Kankakee Club, which Although Schmidt said he could splitting the profits from the will be open to those who wish to not "foresee any problems of weekend, Schmidt emphasized attl'nd without a date. Buses will turning away people from the that the only event with profit he provided for "The Last Armory Party, as was necessary possibilities is the party on Hurrah," which begins at 9:00 at at An Tostal last year," he Friday night. Although it is co­PM and runs until 1 AM. The intended to sell tickets to that sponsored by the Cape Cod­price is $3 for men and $2 for party in advance so that those Toledo-Kankakee Club, who paid women. Hefreshment in the form who wanted to go could be for all the advertising, any profit of 30 kegs and music by two assured admittance. "Tickets made will be turned over to the groups will be provided and in­still can be purchased Friday Senior Class Treasury. Schmidt eluded in the cost of admission. night at the Armory," the said out that "The guys from 
The day of the game will find Tresurer added. C2TK3 are merely donating the the Senior Bar open at 9:00 am Schmidt announced also that advertising in order to demon­with a 10 cents per beer special all seniors were invited to Ted strate to the campus that they for the first hour. After the Kubiak's on Sunday night to will be back in full swing game, for those not attending the closeout the five affair. following the football season." concert, the Seniors are offering the rare opportunity of seeing 
Black American Law Students 
live professional wrestling. 

Ass oc iat ion
Senior .Jim Bingle has obtained 100 tickets to the wrestling 
presents a lecture matches in Elkhart and all are 
ON THE EXPERIENCES OF A
inited to attend. The $3.50 pice includes bus transportation, 
BLACK ATTORNEY 
ticket, and refreshments on the 
b y B oh b y Hi II ,

bus. Tickets for both the wrestling 
Georgi a L egi si atu re 
matches and the "Last Hurrah" 
Friday, November 12

will be available Wednesday and 
8: 00 -9:30pm
Memorial Library Aud.

Thursday afternoons in tee 
No Charge
All Students Welcome

Huddle from 12 to 1 and also those 
Even though you're getting married in the park by aveterinarian, she would still like an engagement ring. 
Styles and customs change. We ought There are no middleman profits to 
to know. Because since 1921 Vanity drive up the price. 
Fair has been selling diamonds through And only Vanity Fair knows how to 
dealers across the United States: keep costs down without compromising 
Now, in a new direct-marketing pol­quality. A look at our new 40-page, full­
icy, we are offering college students the color catalog will convince you of that. 
same dealer prices. This coupon will bring it to you free. Or, 
What kind of prices? Well, let's for­if you prefer, visit our showrooms at 
get all the fancy, confusing definitions: 55 E. Washington St., Chicago. 
we'll just say that our selling price to 
you averages 50% less than anyone 
else's selling price. Whether they call ------------­
1 lfnlit\,FdrJ)ituntnuL~ t
themselves retailers, wholesalers, dis­counters or dealers. We absolutely 155 East Washington Street, Chicago, Illinois 60602 I 
guarantee that savings in writing. Or • Please send me a free 1972 Vanity Fair Catalog. : your money back. We make our guarantee because as 
' Name • 
an importer of diamonds and manufac­
•

turer of Vanity Fair Diamond rings, we I Address. 
handle the entire process of making a 
• City State Zip Code___ • 
finished Vanity Fair ring ourselves. I School 1'
·-----------------------------.....___..., 

-------------------------:-,_-_-------:----­
\ 

Page 6 THE OBSERVER. Wednesday, November 10, 1971 




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-Chief, Glen S. Corso Assistant EditorAssistant Editor 
All succl'ssful newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
ceaselessly qul'rulous and bellicose. They never defend 
Ad,·ertising Manager

Business Manager anyone or anything if they can help 
Jim Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 




Film Mess 
The Student Union -The Imperial Caliphs of almost all the profitable en­tertainment we get to swallow on the playing fields of du lac -generally takes care of its own. For example, when the Cultural Arts Commission wants to show a given movie X on given week Y, we will never see the Cape Cod Club or the Florida-Appalachia-Cuba club or the Grand Wizards of the Ku Klux Klan or any of the other duly accredited clubs show that same movie X on that same weekend Y. Or on the weekend before. Or on the weekend before that. The Union-which gives and denies license to show films on campus -would make sure of that. 
Last weekend, simultaneously and within a thousand yards of each other, the Finance Club and the Knights of Columbus each showed "The Sterile Cuckoo," with Liza Minelli. By itself, the film was geniune quality and hence a real risk to bomb on campus; in competition with itself, there wasn't a chance in the world. Both organizations took a bath. 
Were organizations on campus set up to make money like the bijous and bistros in South Bend are, last weekend's competition would probably have been a healthy thing. But they aren't -they're set up to sustain their small mem­berships. If the Finance Club, for example, couldn't raise any money through activities like this last motion picture; then academic projects sure to lose money-things like field trips and guest lecturers-would be out of the question. 
So how does the Student Union protect organizations like that? Obviously, not too well now. The Finance Club has none of the guarantees the Cultural Arts Commission has. The Finance Club can plan a project three weeks ahead of time; then see it blown up in its face as another organization schedules them­selves to duplicate the same project on the same day. 
Some people have suggested that the Union assign weekends on a first-come, first-served basis. Itwouldn't take too long for an ambitious club to plan its next five years in advance, thereby shutting off any new clubs and dispatching a dozen old ones into oblivion. This would be an excellent situation for ambitious clubs, but, alas not a particularly happy for the student boyd. 
Virginia-Washington-Maryland Club President Bob Mastro has come up with an interesting idea. He suggests that each club submit its schedule to Student Union at the beginning of the year, and that Student Union assign dates on the basis of lottery. We tend to suspect that this may be the best solution yet hit upon. The system's not unprecedented-many halls use the lottery to determine room picks; and we all know what other important organization picks by lottery. 
and we all know what other organization picks by lottery. The system's fair; it susually works. And that's more than we can say about the current system. 


Nite Editor: Gene Slason Features Editor: rickRmith Asst. Nite Editor: Anthony Abowd 
SMC Editor: Ann Conway Layout: 
nite controller: mark j. niederkornGeorge Lund
dl.

Hea mes: News Editor .Jerry Lutkus 
Headliner: Don Biancamano Gerry Fleishman Visitors : Joe Abell Jim Mcdermott 
associate ( undesignedly so) • Ed Ellis Maria Gallaghercontroller of the night: rick smith 
indwelling  Marty Miller  Glen Corso  
Typists:  Dan Rock  llelen Smudski  Oebi Gras  T.C. Treanor  Don Ruane  
Sports Kinkopf  Night  Editor:  Eric  Stanley Urankar  
...and  the  mighty  Observer  
football in the  squad seeks venveance Media Bowl. Beware  Thanks Evt>l'ybody!  
WSND!  

GJen Corso 
Applications 
The first ones arrived over the summer -bulging manila envelopes bearing imposing return addresses, Georgetown University Law Center, Catholic University, Columbus School of Law, and Boston School of Law. 
You opened them, no mean feat since the person who sealed them shut must have had an awfully good tongue or a very wet sponge, and drew out an imposing packet of papers. 
The first thing that caught your eye was the information bulletin. Usually about 100 pages long, it had a bright cover and glossy pages. The cover was an imaginative drawing of the law building, or some cute design. You opened it and read the very imposing message from the Dean stating how the law school is one of the most famous in the country and only accepts applicants of high moral character and outstanding academic achievement. In other words, if you had a 3.4 GPA and a 670 score on the LSAT's they might consider your ap­plication. 
Then you flipped through the catalogue, which proclaimed that particular law school as the greatest law school that absolutely ever was. Feelings of suspicion stirred through your mind, feelings that you had seen all this stuff before in a slightly altered version. 
Then you remembered, that golden autumn afternoon when you opened up another catalogue with a bright cover and slick pages -it had pictures of a Golden Dome on every other page. Coming on the heels of that bit of nostalgia you remembered another interesting bit of information -what the place was really like as compared to what was in the catalogue. 
A feeling of the dread stole over you then, numbing yeur brain and creating a knot in your belly. Mter a few minutes of indecisiveness, moments in which you considered the alternatives -a job, in a field which, at last count, had a million more people than there was room for, working for your father, which caused a bigger knot and numbed your brain even more, or some other type graduate study, which made your eyes cross and left you with a brassy taste in your mouth, you set down the catalogue. 
A fervent hope crossed your mind then -a hope that maybe other schools are different and maybe they all don't lie quite that badly in their admissions catalogue. 
Your eyes caught another part of the packet -the biggest of the biggies, the application. You picked it up and flipped through its eight pages quickly, marveling at how long it must have taken the ad­missions committee to think up enough questions to fill eight pages to fill eight pages. 
The first couple weren't too bad actually -your name, home and campus address and phone numbers, routine questions like that. As your eye skipped down the page it got a little stickier though -'Name all the people you have known since 1949.' That really confused you, especially since you had been born in 1950, but when you thought about it a bit you decided it was a typo and went on to the next one. 
Name your Great Grandmother's Great Uncle and his spouse their offspring, their offspring's offspring and their present addresses.' 
All the previous symptoms hit you at once after you read that question; brassy taste, knot in stomach, feeling of dread and crossed eyes. Then the alternatives flashed across your mind again and your resolve stiffened. 
You skipped the next couple of pages, until your eyes rested on this [)ne: 'Explain in 25,000 words or less your reasons for wanting to study law, why you want to come to this law school, which is the greatest law school that absolutely ever was, who in your family has ever been a lawyer, your hobby's your father.s hobbies, your mother's hobbies, what effect irrigation has had on agriculture in Southern California and why this might present a legal problem for Nevada gamblers and what are the statutes covering common law marriages in Hawaii? 
You cried for a good long while after that, bewailing your lost youth and innocence, cursing the day you were born and swearing at all the people who had ever told you that a person with your ability was eminently suited to be a lawyer. 
Then you filled the application out. By the way, a rumor is out, a rujor that says the LSAT scores are in today's mail-perhaps it is time for another cry. 
'. 

Wednesday, November 10, 1071 THE OBSERVER. Pep7 
randy s arton 
the midwest blues festival: an itinerary 
The blues is America's most indigenous art form. saturday night The Midwest Blues Festival, held Nov. 12-14, at Stepan Center. will be one of the biggest blues festivals in the Listen to Otis Rush do his first big record, "I Can't 
eountry this year. It is attempting to expose more Quit You, Baby" <There's Willie Dixon. again.) or his pt•ople to this type of music. The following is a rundown gutsy rendition of "My Love Will Never Die" and you on what will be some of the main acts. know he is a powerhouse. Born in Philadelphia, Mississippi, he left for Chicago when he was 15. Otis is about 35 now and a strong participant in the second generation of the Negro blues. He plays 7 nights a weekfriday night at the new cafes and lounges, like Curley's , a club on Chicago's south side. Catch him Saturday night -he's the left-handed dude playing and singing his heart out. , One of the highlights of the Friday night concert will . Like the night before, Satu~day night too will finis~ be F'red McDowell. He is one of the three proponents of big. Where does one ~t~rt talkmg about MuddyWat~rs. the country blues who will be at N.D. this weekend. He has become the hvmg father of the blues. Inspired (The others are Mance Lipscomb and Shirley Griffith) by Son _House and Robert Johnson, _he l~y down the What this means is he'll be on stage without an elec-foundatiOn for future blu~s bands with h~s great. suc­trified back-up band. Just Mississippi Fred alone, cess. M~ddy Waters (his real. name IS M_cKmley playing his beat-up acoustical guitar. He has been Morganfield. l was on~ ~f the earliest and certamly, the playing the delta or country blues for decades and the moRt successful. musician to_ adapt country blu~s to truth and feeling of his vocal and guitar styles literally more modern city forms. With his strong emoh?nal 
· f th t · sound he has become the consummate blues artist.
smg o a expenence. · • 
Homesick James Williamson and his Dusters can d f be found on most of the numerous "Best of the Chicago 5 U n aY a f ern0 0 n Blues" or other similar albums, along with Jr. Wells, Buddy Guy, Otis Rush and others. Originally from 
This afternoon session holds a lot in store for the
Mississippi, James came to Chicago during the "great 
concert-goer. Mance Lipscomb will probably start the
migration" to the North which included many other 
gig and he has got to be one of, if not the, most in­
notable blues musicians, about 25 years ago. When he 
teresting performers of the festival. This Texan
records, his bass player is Willie Dixon, who has 
musician has spent most of his life working as a farmer
become a big name on the blues-rock scene. Willie 
and a sharecropper. Having played guitar for the last
composed "Spoonful" <Creaml, "You Shook Me" and 
fifty years, Mance can play a myriad of guitar styles ­
"I Can't Quit You, Baby" (Led Zeppelin, 1st album) 
blues, ballads, rags, religious songs, what have you. He
and other well-known songs. Homesick James plays 
is a great story-teller and can keep his audience
guitar and does the vocals, and can usually be found 
amused for hours with revealing commentaries on
playing in the small rundown neighborhood bars of 
southern Negro life during the past half century. 
Chicago. Homesick will be playing without his regulars 
Junior Wells as a harp player and vocalist is an in­
as a featured performer in Coney and Bell's group 
tegral member of the rich musical scene of the city
which also features guitarist Eddie Taylor. 
blues. He's been playing since he was 14, and has
The climax of the night will probably come when 
picked up some of his harmonica techniques from the
Howlin' Wolf and friends take over. Howlin' Wolf, nee 
late great Sonny Boy Williamson. Originally from
Chester Burnett has an amazing history. He was born 
Memphis, Wells is another of the second generation of
in the center of the pre-war Mississippi country blues 
the blues, now centered in Chicago. Almost always
tradition. It was not until he was 38 that he started 
with Jr. Wells is Buddy Guy. He is one of the top
recording. In 1952, he moved to Chicago and 
guitarists, perhaps the best. Together Guy and Wells
established himself as one of the most important blues 
put on a tremendous show of musical virtuosity.
musicians in the country. He is a major force in 
Sunday, they will be playing two sets, the first
shaping this form of music by bridging the country 
acoustical with one guitar, harmonica and vocals, and 
blues to the big city blues. His appeal is in his ominous 
later, an electric set with the addition of drums, bass
brooding singing and his intense rhythms. His com­
and possibly brass.

position, "Smokestack Lightning" was recorded by the 
Anyone attending is in for a treat.
Yardbirds, while the Doors did his "Back Door Man". 
mike mckale 


mike cullen -life as a celebration 
the fire of a draft board. Such a man is house, which he called Casa Maria to aid Michael Cullen, one of the Milwaukee 14, migrant families in Milwaukee. Cullen"I would believe only in a God who could 
and the speaker at Notre Dame's first Nietzsche Moratorium, two years ago. Sicne then, he door. He began to ask serious questionshas served a time in prison and he will be a bout why there was this kind of poverty. 
dance." rccieved as many as 35 people a day at his 
"I think that we can dance, By God we're 
going to dance!" returning this Thursday night to speak Cullen stated at his trial: "I began to ask 
once again to Notre Dame students. What why we were spending so much on war.
Mike Cullen 
sort of a man is Michael Cullen~ Why were our cities rotting in the face of Michael Cullen is a 30-year old native of war? Why was there so much despairI oftpn wonder what it might be like if lr!'land. As a young man he considered 
among our young people as a result of that onp had the courage and-or folly to accept becoming a missionary brother in Africa. 
war? I would go one step further. I wastht• invitation to dance through life. If one At his trial Mike explained what this asking questions like wpy was the Churchonly had the courage to realize that the meany, "a missionary in Ireland meant 
with all its rescources, not speaking to theordinary can become the holy, that there that you went to a country and you took on questions that were tearing people's livesarP no spPcial times or places only special all that country was and its heritage and apart at home and abroad.
pPopl!'. H only we could all open ourselves people, and you never thought of returning On Palm Sunday in 1967, he went to St. 
to that holy pow!'r or spirit that informs to your native land again. Cullen joined the .John Cathedral and tried to speak by wayevt>ry living thing, open ourselves to life as White Fathers, a missionary order, then 
of an eight-day fast, during which time he 
a gift to b!' Pnjoyed and most of all open transferred to a Trappist monastery, in r!'ad the words and life of Gandhi andours!'lv!'s to the certainty that everyman Hocrea, Ireland, where prayer, silence 
other nonviolent people. Cullen realizedand evPry woman has a dignity and value and study were stressed. In 1960 Cullen that the war was going to depend that good
which we can give proofto h!' !'Xperiences d!'cided to study for the priesthood in the men offer personal sacrifice. Being human which wt• share with them. We rejoice in 
llnitt'<i States. according to Mike often requires us to takeknowing that one more person has ac­Cullen chose to <'OmP to the U.S. by boat stands when it's most difficult. Cullenel'ptPd the call to dance through life. rather than by plane because "I wanted to made a retreat in a Benedictine monastery Dane!', a symbol for life celebrated and com!' mto that culture in a slow 
with th!' rest of the Milwaukee 14. They
mjoy!'d, a sacrt>d existence. Fire is procession ... to get a sense of what it was rpad the Gospels and discussed radical similar to dance, it is always moving, forth!' immagrants of the 1800's when they nonviolent action. Mike said of the draft mystifying, and consuming what it saw that great lamp we knew in Ireland hoard incident: "I think we tried to say the 
toucht's. Those to can transform the fire and in all of Europe, the lamp of samt> thing as most draft protestors, not into dance are indt>ed men of the spirit. freedom ... Statue of Liberty. 
that they haven't loved their country, It's Those who can transform the profane cost But over the years Cullen saw what he that they have loved their country and 
of naoalmt>d innocence, by the celebration ronsid!'red a destruction of the U.S. dream knPw that they had a price to pay.and immolation of draft board fites into of frt•!'dom and dignity in the hideousness Mike Cullen paid that price because he is a sacred occasion of dance are percievers of war and the d!'dication of Americans to that kind of man. Bishop Charles Buswell of a power which could be used to tran­mall•rial possessions. i labor by singing light
stated this about Cullen at the trial: "The sform all of life. When a person realizes Cullen left the seminary in 1960 to reputation of Mike Cullen in this country is 
not for ambition or bread
t•itht•r hy foolishness or courage that we· participate in the civil rights movement. one of a saint." Gentleness is Mike m.ty celebrate the holiness of life in any 
From there life began to speed up for Cull!'n's trademark. He is a person who or the strut and tradeofcharmstime and place, he is usually induced to Cullen, he worked in nursing homes, and does not m!'rely talk, but transforms the 
question other forms of power and mad­hospital psychiatric and geriatic wards. talk into action. Transforms life into on the ivory stagesn!'ss which have at the cost of bombed and 
Soon hP was marri('d and was holding t'PI!'bration. He will he here Thursdaynapalmt-d innocence brought us to the down a comfortable job as a manager of an night at Stepan Center at 9:30. If you like but for the common wages t>dge of political and moral nihilism. insurance ag!'ncy office. He soon decided <'t>IPbration or if you like life I think you 

of their most secret heart
A man is callt>d by dance, celebration, that making money was not his goal in life. might like to hear what he has to say. and awareness of the sacredness of life to liP quit the insurance job and open!'d up a dylan thomas 

-

Pawe 1 THE OlJSERVEit.. Wednesday, November 10, 1971 
IF YOU THINK EUROPE WAS CHEAP THIS SUMMER, YOU SHOULD SEE IT THIS WINTER. 

For your next holiday you can be in London for $190. Rome $199. Paris $200. Or Greece $268. These arejust some ofTW.Ns low round trip fares for youths between the ages of12 and 25. Who knows how much longer they'll be in effect, so for more details call TWA. And to help you save money when you're on vacation, send for TW.Ns new Getaway* Kit. It's free and it will tell you where you can get ... 
BED, BREAKFAST AND SIGHTSEEING FOR ONLY $4.30A DAY. 
Only TWA offers you the Stutel pass.* It is a book of vouchers you can buy for 10, 15, 20, 25, etc. days for just $4.30 a day. Each voucher entitles you to a bed, breakfast and sightseeing in 50 Euro­pean Cities. No advance reservations necessary. The kit also tells you where to ... 
RENTACAR FOR JUST $3.65 A DAY. 
In over 15 European Cities, you can drive a car all around the city for just $3.65 a day, plus gas and 4¥2¢ per kilometer. And how to save money with... 

SPECIAL SKI TOURS. 
TWA has some of the lowestpricedski tours to Vail, Aspen, and Steamboat. Or if you want to ski the Alps, take a TWA tour. It saves you over 50% of the cost of travelling alone. The kit also tells you how to get a ... 

GETAWAYCARD. 
You'll receive anapplication blank. There's no minimumincome require­ment. And no yearly maintenance fee. 
Use your Getaway Card to charge airfare, Stutelpasses, tours, almost everything. And then take up to two years to pay. 
Now what's even easier than getting away for the holidays, is getting a Getaway Kit. 
Just use the coupon. 

r.---------------------~-,
154

I TWA,P.O.Box402,Farmingdale,N.Y.l1735 ~ CI I Send all the information you have on bargain ~ I vacations in EuroJe and the U.S.A. to:
I . I
I Name 1 

I A I 
I I
I City State Zip Code . ·· I 
L ____... --------------------...J 


,.. 

Wednesday, November 10, 1971 
THE OBSERVDt 


London: new initiatives •




lD N. Ireland? 

(Continued from page 3) 
<'<'nter of Belfast has dropped 
more than 40 per cent since in­
tPrnment. 
As in Saigon, residents and 
visitors avoid sitting beside 
windows for fear of being shot. 
A sense of torment grips this 
city of 400,000. Last week a 
r<'cruiting campaign for teachers 
in Australia brought a flood of 
applicants. "We're losing not 
only teachers, but doctors and 
msinessmen and some of our 
best skilled craftsmen" said 
Brian Walker, Chairman of the 
Moderate New Ulster Movement, 
s~t up two years ago to spur a 
d1alogue between Catholics and 
protestants. 
"Wh<'n the skilled carpenter or 
toolmaker leaves for England or 
AIJstralia or South Africa we're 
not just losing a man but 20 and 30 
years of training and ex­
perience," said the businessman. 
Among catholics and protestants, the possibility of the death of the Stormont govern­m<'nt evokes uncertainty and anger, especially among protestants. Prime Minister Brian Faulkner said over l<'l<'vision last night: "I believe that the imposition of direct rule would produce a far more violent holocaust in Northern Ireland than anything we've ever had." 
Attention Frosh 
Th<' Freshman officers met last night and drew up plans to organize a freshman council. The <·ouncil will contain represen­tatives from all the halls on both campuses. The purpose of this eouncil will be to organize ac­tivities for the freshman class. 
All students who wish to be mPmbers of this council are asked to call either Dave Yates 01406), Diana Gavin (4781), Sue S<"hnieder (4810), or Gail Fromm (4846> anytime on Thursday. 
IIi<; associates speak in even blunter, almost frightened terms, saying that direct rule would be a "betrayal" by the British government. 
What form direct rule may take remains uncertain. There is ssome discussion of a com­mission of Catholics and Protestants, appointed by London, to run Northern Ireland and plan a new government and constitution, possibly in three years time. 
Although the terrorist Irish 
Pope says: Synod destined for i~npact,,, 
(Continued from page 3) 
documents and that the topics themselves were too broad to be handled in five weeks. 
On the other hand, it is clear that the significance of the third Synod of Bishops for the Roman Catholic Church goes well beyond the documents that it might produce. 
Virtually every Bishop in­terviewed on the subject pointed to the educational value of such a worldwide gathering. "You hear things that you wouldn't get simply by reading about justice at home," one Bishop said. "It's one thing to talk in the abstract. It's another to hear a Bishop from Africa or Asia tell of his first­hand experiences." 

Dr. Kung: 
(Continued from pagel) 
Jesus happened after His death and that this belief was carried on since Jesus was very alive to the believers." So, "Jesus became the new law in that He who proclaimed the Message, became the Message Himself," Kung concluded. 
In his final remarks, Dr. Kung said that he sees "a hope and 
liberation in Christ," and that if men act not for a gain, but strictly for others in business .. on a national scale, and in our daily lives, they can see "a recon­ciliation between the two sides on any issue on that issue." 
If we stay in a fight for a Christian community, Dr. Kung concluded, "we shall truly overcome." 
Hepublican Army would oppose such a move--the l.R.A.'s aim is unification now--the feeling among catholic leaders is that the rank and file would support direct rule, as long as the Stromont parliament and in­ternment end. 
John Burne, who has emerged as the most influential figure in the predominantly catholic op­position, said: "The first and <'ssential step, whatever the agrPed solution to emerge from the current situation, must be the 
Another area of significance for the third Synod is its contritmtion to the evolution of the Roman Catholic Church toward a more decentralized system of govern­ment. 
As far as decentralization is concerned, though, the Synod's deliberations made it evident to 
everyone that in a pluralistic age there are many practical questions that cannot be settled on a universal level and that some institutions for delegating authority must be created. 
Numerous Bishops have also 
begun to talk in terms of the 
creation of regional Synods, 
perhaps one for each continent, abolition of the present system of government." 
Conaty was equally adamant: "Ending internment and abolishing Stromont would give us a chance to turn the com­munity against violence. You can't do that now. Stormont was the institution for most of the problems we have. And in­
ternment is a disaster. 
"If internment goes on through Christmas we're going to have a terrible situation here," said Conaty, whose group set up 
that would have legislative authority on matters such as 
•.~1ethods for selecting Bishops, tmances and even the ordination of married men. 
The current Synod did not push hard for Iegislalive powers for itself or for the delegation of more responsibility to National i':piscopal Conferences. Indeed, 
some criticized it for being too obsequious to Vatican wishes. 
MidwestBlues Fest Nov. 12, 13, & 14 tickets will be sold at evening meal W ed. & Thurs. 
3-day pass $6.00 single night $2.50 tickets also on sale at Student Union Ticket Office 
Sponsored by Cultural Arts Commission 
On the other hand, when the Bishops ended up choosing between two possible statements on the question of ordaining married !!len. a surprisinnly strong mm<rty of 87 Bishops endorsed a declaration that was not simply more liberal on celibacy, but specifically called for different policies in different situations. 
protective barricades in Catholic ghettos during the 1969 riots. "Christmas is an emotive time and people will just want to rip away that barbed wire and free those men" 
A total of 882 persons have been seized in Northern Ireland since the imposition of internment on Aug. 9. More than half of the internees--476--have been 
• released, and the remaining 406 are in custody. 
PaqelO THE OBSERV£1t 
Crewi n favor of b u sst• ng 
by E. J. Kinkopf '72  havP c.l"l'nwd like a mission  
The Notre Dame crew club  impossibll' to them, and reachL~  
inhPrited a 65 foot racing shell  South Bend, shell intact, and with  
from the now defunct Chicago  a f<•w stories to boot.  
Boat Club last Saturday. That is  "There was a cop at the gyn.  
to say. they received the rights to  where th<' shell was stored,"  
it as it sat gathering cobwebs in  StPV<' said." "And he could have  
the Navy Pier gym in Chicago.  arrestPd us for transportaing the  
The only problem in the deal  sh<'ll on top of the bus. But in- 
was getting the shell back to  st(•ad he tried to get a police  
South Bend. And it's a good thing  l'scort for us. But the police  
that that was the only real  wouldn't escort an illegal vehicle.  
problem. Because as it turned  So wp took the policeman's  
out. it was quite a trick getting  advice. and tried to be in- 
the blue fiberglass hull to Notre  conspicuous as we slipped away  
Dame.  quietly."  
Actually, there were a few  Quietly maybe. But how can  
solutions to the problem of  you be inconspicuous with fifteen  
transporting the shell.  feet of boat hanging over each  
One, the crew club could have  Pnd of a bus?  
paid to have it shipped back. But  ''We really tried hard. But we  
that costs money. And crew, an  had to make wide turns wth the  
aesthetic sport rather than a  shPll on top of the bus. Like for  
commercial one, does not rank  Jpft turns we had to turn from the  
highly on the ND sports budget.  (•xtrem<' right lane."  
So scratch the REA idea.  And turning wasn't the only  
Two, the oarsmen could have  problem.  
rowed it back. But neither the St.  Windy City gusts hampered the  
Joe nor Lake Michigan offers a  journey home, and threatened to  
direct route of travel.  rip the shell off the bus.  
Or they could have strapped  "The wind was really the  
the shell to the top of a 35 foot bus,  biggest problem," Steve said. "I  
and hauled it back via the  thought South Bend was windy,  
tollways.  but the gusts on the Chicago  
Novel? Yes.  Skyway made South Bend look  
Illegal? You bet.  ealm."  
Did it work? It sure did.  But the crew men, crawling  
Steve Buccini, treasurer of the  along the Indiana Tollway in  
crew club and four other club  their "magic bus", that together 
members completed what must  

A ra still hoping 
The Notre Dame football team may be looking ahead only to Tulane and Louisiana State in the coming weeks, but the question of a post-season bowls still ranks high in the minds of Irish fQllowers. 
After losing to Southern Cal, 
many fans have even discussed 
the possibilities of going to a 
"secondary bowl" such as the 
Liberty, or the Astro-Bluebonnet. 
Coach Ara Parsegian took time 
out from practice at Cartier field 
Monday to discuss the Irish bowl 
possibilities. 
"Our job is to keep winning and get an invitation," Ara said. We're hopeful of getting a bid against another top team." 
"I don't think we'd go to a bowl 
just for the sake of going to a 
bowl. A lot can happen before the 
bids are made and it could be 
very confusing." 


Parseghian to vote 
Ara Parseghian, head coach of 
the University of Notre Dame, 
has been named to the Selection 
Committee of the second annual 
Vince Lombardi Award for 
college football's "Outstanding 
Lineman''. 
The 56-man Selection Com­mittee is made up of leading college coaches and newspaper ·sportswriters from every region inth country. The player voted the most outstanding collegiate lineman will be honored at the second annual Vince Lombardi Award Dinner, January 14, 1972, 
in Houston, Texas. 
Frank Leahy, Football Hall of 
Farner and Lombardi's line 
coach when he was one of For­
dham's "Seven Blocks of 
Granite", will serve as Chairman 
of the committee. 
The Vince Lombardi Award is 
sponsored by the Rotary Club of 
Houston with proceeds going to 
the American Cancer Society's 
research program. 
Jim Stillwagon of Ohio State 
won the first Lombardi Award 
last year. Other finalists were 
Larry Di Nardo of Notre Dame, 
Chip Kell of Tennessee and Rock 
Perdoni of Georgia Tech. 
Confusing, because Notre 
Dame can be offered a bowl in­
vitation earlier than other of the 
top ten teams. 
The NCAA ruling is that in­vitations may not be extended or accepted until 6 p.m. on the Saturday before the teams last game, or the third Saturday in November, whichever is earlier. 
Notre Dame then, would be eligible a couple of hours after its game Saturday against Tulane. 
The question of academics also enters into the bowl picture as it did two years ago before the revamped ND semester system. 
Some then, think it unlikely for the Irish to play in a "secondary bowl" scheduled before January !st. 
The academic schedule has examinations before Christmas this year, so bowl practice f()r an earlier appearance could be hampered by scholastics. 
So far though speculation has been the main forte of sport­swriters and fans as bowl sponsors have remained non­commital, although represen­tatives of the Sugar, Orange, Gator and Liberty bowls have been around lately. 
But Coach Parsegian continues to point out that any bowl bid hinges on a winning performance first this Saturday, and maybe even in Baton Rouge November 20th if the bowl representatrives hold out that long. 
Until then, rumors will be the rule, and speculation will dominate the talk of Irish fans. 


IC"tNI~IONI 

WRESTLING 
$3.50 Ticket price includes -Bus to Elkhart, Ind. -Refreshments 

on I 
Bus 
-$2.50 reserve Seat at Match 
Tickets c:n sale 12 -I :00 Wed. & Thurs. al the Huddle. 9-11:00 WPd. nite at Senior Bar. Call 
~117-5407. 

\l'ith tht> shell measured out longt>r than a semi-trailer, arrivt>d on the banks of the St. Joe tht"t't' and a half hours later. 
Mission completed ... 

Th(• five member squad that transported the shell deserve n•cognition for their heroic, and pPrhaps crazy feat. But while thpy'rt> basking in the glory of success, perhaps they ought to writ<' a note of thanks to the Chicago Police Department. 
After all, what they did was iiiPgal. . And they weren't even bus-ted. 

Where the seeds of passion blossomed into a harvest of carnal depravity! 
~ 



ADULTS ONLY 
plus ca-feature 

THE GREEK 
PERSONALS 
Does anyone remember a Pep Rally in the Old Fieldhouse? Senior Class '72 does! 
Mommy and Daddy, My shoes are all scuffed up. Love, E:dith Ann 
KAE Who IS happy sad? JRH 
Happy Birthday Sue Remember I love you Love, Pete 
Gumper: 
Mnrket Tip: Buy Bengali­It's on the upswing and ver-r-r-ry stable. 
Fire Department: Help! I'm burning. 
LJC 
A speci<~l thanks to the Notre Dame band members who helped to make our weekend so great in Pittsburgh. 
Love, Beth and Kris---------· 
Lonely and emotionally depraved IJoy needs a girlfriend. To apply rail 7858. Ask for Colin (Hwang). 
Who rides a fiery horse with the speed of lightning??? The Lone Rilnqer Coming Friday. 
Sund<~y, lhe Fleet Elite (J.T., Hwang, Frog, Wizard, and Monilcl will invade St. Mary's with the "Chinese 1-tormalion" .1nd win one tor Joe Roe, who lies critically racked up in a secluded nfl c<~mpus mortuary, attended ''Y R0verend Chester Wolfmeat. 

Wednesday, November 10, 1071 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
One Electric Typewriter, qood or great shape. Call Tom 287 2731. 
Urgent: Need 5 General Ad­mission Tix to TULANE Game: Need not be adjacent. Call John at 1607. 
Need ride to Cincinnatti or Dayton area, Friday November 12. Call Joe 3676. 
Need 2 general admission tix to Tulane Call Doug at 1723. 
Wanted: 1 general admission Tulane ticket. Call Janet at 4037. 
Will pay top money for 4 general ildmission Tulane tickets, need not be adjacent. Call Bill 8227. 
Sr. wilnls to move to nearby farm or will help to organize one for 2nd semester. Call 232-9186. 
NEEDED: 1 General Ad. Tulane Ticket. Call Nancy 5223. 
Need ride to K.C. Thanksgiving 
Friday Nov. 19 Rich 1254. 
Needed: Ride to Rochester, N.Y. 
for Thanksgiving. Call Jerry 
6714. 
Wanted: Two Adjacent $4.50 Fifth Dimension Tickets. Call Steve 1045. 
Need 1 general admission Tulane ticket. Call Marlene 5102. 
TAKE A FREAK HOME FOR THANKSGIVING: Need a ride to New York New Jersey area tor Thanksgiving. Will share ex­penses and anything else. Please Call 8713. 
-----·-----­
Need Ride to Twin Cities Thanksgiving. Leave Wed. Pay $10. John 288-2933. 
Need ride to Cleveland November 12 after two. 4828. 
Need ride to LSU game. Will share expenses. Call 8076. 
Help a pretty girl. Need ride to Dayton this weekend. Call Carol 4946. 
Rides needed: From ND to In­diana University Nov. 19-20; To ND from central NY anytime 
Nov. 20-24. Will share expenses. Cathy 5195. John 1380. 
Needed Badly: Ride to Knoxville Tenn. for Thanksgiving. Will share expenses. Call Jim 6952. 
NOTICES 
NEED MONEY? Morrissey Loan Fund 
Basement of La Fortune 11:15-12:15. 
Call Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt's and Info concerning Viviane Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line' Endorsed by Harper's Bazaar. Available only through indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP 
LESSONS. 
Fix your-OWN-CAR tonight. We have the space -tools -parts and help. You do the work and $AVE. Autotech Rl. 31 South in Niles. 
684 1960.  Open  evenings  and  
weekends.  
MIDWEST  BLUES  IS  COMING  

Australia needs teachers now. Sick of hassling Smog, Unem­ployment? Growing Needs, all subject areas. For full in­formation send $1.00 to: Inti. Teachers Placement Bureau, 
P.O. Box 19007, Sacramento, Cnlifornia, 95819. 
Photographs for applications, p<~ssports. Portraits. Fast, inexpensive, high quality. 6729. 
Detroit Club Thanksgiving Bus Sales 117 Stanford 7-9 PM Nov. 9 & 10. Cnll 8603 for info. 
AI Stepi'ln Center, Fri., Sat., Sun. Midwest Blues. 
Girls interested in being a P.A.L. to <~ Soutl1 Bend child (like Big Brothers) call Rynnie 4996. 
f Ul URE CPA'A ·Learn how to prepare for the CPA Exam. 
APcker CPA Review Course. Call Collcct: (317) 547-9917. 
Midwcst Blues is Coming 
PERSONALS 

To "The Golf Course Couple', Your Ann-tics on the golf course Me hard to follow. What was the IinaI score? 
The Shadow 
P.C. Bappy Hirlhday Townie! The Purple Camel 

/Denise, You're only nineteen, But you're my teenage queen. HAPPY BIRTHDAY 
K.O. 

The Lone Ranger rides again. This weekend at the BVC. 
Dear MBO, Don't believe L.J.C. AWN 
Think Snow 

THE LONE RANGER this 
weekend  at  the  Badin  Vintage  
Cinema  
LOST  

Lost: set of keys on black and white "one way" keyholder. 
J('nny 5452 after 5pm. 
FOR SALE 

Quality 8.track tapes. Big selection. All only $3.50. Call 6715. 
ON SALE: Brand new, quaranteed S-track <~nd cassette· tapes. Fantastic selections. All tapes only $2.99. Call 1781 (Paul) quickly. 
For Sale: '66 Ford Fairlane Cheap. Must sell now any reasonable offer Mike 6729. 
For Sale: Champaign Gold GTO. '67, Air cond., Power steering and brakes. 'His Hers' transmission, tinted glass, black interior. Call <~nd make bid. 289-7433. 
N D J<~cket Brand new. No patch. $20. Size 36. 

G<~rrard SL 65B Turntable with base, cover, and Shure M93E. $70. C<~ll 7850. 
Scnnheiser Stereo Headphones. 2 months old. Excellent condition. Call 6872. 
Aonston's PHOENIX now available. Cheapest, most in­teresting alternative press <~round. (25 cents). Call 232-9186. 
Three stu. tickets for sale (Tulane) -will sell individually. Cnll Tom 287 2731. 
Stereo Set Less than a year old $90. Sony AM FM Clock radio. $30. Call Tom 7927. 
Unique personalized stationary, the perfect Christmas gift for that special someone. Inquire by calling 1167 or come see our vast ~election at 611 Grace or 315 South Regina. 
For Sale: Senior Student Ticket­Tulane -45 yd. line $6.00. John 288 2933. 
For Sale -Shortwave -AM radio. Cheap. Call 8076. 
Two adjacent $4.50 Fifth Dimension tickets: Succulent Prices: Fred 6761. 
For Snle: 1960 Station Wagon. Good buy tor parts. Excellent Enqine, New Exhaust System, Two Brand New Tires. Needs new transmission. Call 287-1998 after 5 pm. 
Classified Ads paid tor in cash when ordered. 2. Office hours 
12:15 5:00pm. Ads in by 2:00 on day before publication. 

Wd Ida. 2da. lila. 4da.-Sda:­
1-lf .5t .'IS l.M 1.15 1.21 11-11 ..... 1.35 1.'15 us 11-2.1 .71 1.15 1.71 !.41 ZM 21-21 .IS US Z.M ! .• US, ._. l.M l.lt 2.31 Ut 4.11 :n.u 1.2.1 •·• 2.11 us t.1t 3&-tf 1.35 Z.l~ 3.11 US S.lf 41-tSus ~.,. 3.;tt u• 5.51 41-stJ.'Js :ua 'Y •-7~ a • 


Wednesday, November 10, 1071 THE OBSERVER 
Irish up to 8th 
Nebraska strengthe..ns .lead 
NPhraska widenl'd its margin ovl'r second ranked Oklahoma in hoth polls this week, as it con­tinul'd rolling towards the Thanksgiving day showdown with th<' Sooners. 
ThP Huskers gained six first place votes in the UPI, and the 
Sooners dropped  II  first  place  
tallies in the AP.  
Oklahoma's  loss  of  votes  

1)('rhaps had something to do with its lowest point production of the sl'ason against Missouri ih a 20-3 win. 
To which Coach Fairbanks of th<' Sooners replied, "We could have won it 1-0, and that would have been good enough for me." 
Alabama, 9-o, and conquerors of LSU last weekend, collected thl' only other first place vote in thl' lJPI poll. 
Michigan, ranked third in the A I'. n•cei Vl'd 6 first place votes as did Oklahoma. 
AP Poll

Penn State and Auburn also rcLeived first place votes in the 
T•am
AI'. 

Notre Dame, following its 56-7 I :\••br;,<J<a :10 !9·0) ~ ;)kiahoma 3 tR·Il)
thumping of Pitt moved up to 
3 ~I If h•gan I \ !~0 I
l'ighth in both polls. 4 \lahama I (9-0) The Irish took over the spots :i .·\IIUUill (l!-0) 
ti 1;Pnrg1a t9-0i
,·acated by Ohio StatP. following 
i PPnn Stair (R-411their upset loss to Michigan A \niH• Dame (7·1) 
State. 
~ ·\nl Sl (i·l I Ill Stanford (7 I)
Ohio State dropped to 16th in 
II !.'olor:.do (7-'!l 
the AP, and into a 19th place tie I~ T••mw-.."" it\-2) with Florida State in the UPI. 
ll Tnlrdn (9-0) 14 flrlll,ton (6-2)
Southern Cal, the Irish spoilers, 
I~ Texa~ (6-2) are ranked 15th in both polls with ~o l'arohna (7·2) Mh'h St. (~)
;t 5-4 r!'COrd. 
So l'alif (->-41
And LSU, whom the Irish meet 1!1 f'la Si 11>-~1 November 20th in Baton Rouge, Oluo S!~t~ (().2) dropped right out of the UPI listings, and to 20th in the AP, 

UPIPoll 

following its second loss of the season at the hands of unbeaten I Nebraska 41 ('1-0) 
2 Oklahnm;, 6 (X 0)
Alabama. 
:1 Mwtugan 6 ('1-0) 

4 .\labama t!l-0) 
5 l'o>nn Slatr I (1!-0) .

Mullen;Q uickandsmar t 
6 .·\ubwn I (SO) 
NPw Orleans, La.--Mike 
Mullen. Tulane linebacker who 
won honorable mention in the 
Associat<'d Press' Lineman of the 
WPek award balloting after the 
<:rPen Wave's 33-8 win over Pitt, 
is a mPmher of the "new school" 
of linebackers wrecking grid-iron 
offpnses today. 
Mullen, a 6-2, 230 pounder from 
Dalas, Tex., defines the school 
this way, "The old, popular 
image of a linebacker was a big, 
slow lug who couldn't think his 
way out of a paper bag. 
"Today the emphasis has switchPd from the real strong, physical types typified by, say, I lick Butkus, to linPbackers who fPature quickness and good rw·ognition. 
"Two examples in the pros are Chris llanburger of Washington and Mike Curtis of Baltimore. In the eollegPs, well, I'd like to think that I'm like that." 
Mike is a football junior ...v lwgan his varsity career as an offpnsive guard for the Oklahoma Soon<'rs, but sought greener pastures in the Deep South two yPars ago. 
As a result, he had to sit last Sl'ason out because of the NCAA t ransfPr rule. 
"But it wasn't a total loss," Mike says, "I had a lot to learn and thl• guys on the team made it much l'aser for me. 
"I hadn't ·played linebacker since high school, as I was a dl'fpnsive Pnd for the Oklahoma frl'shnwn and a guard for the one yPar on the varsity." 
Mullen is known as one of the mm·p talkative Greenies, and he dPscrihPs his "l)oller guy" role thusly, "ll's simply a matter of not IPtting things drag, of building Pnthusiasm. You don't vPrhally abuse your opponents, instPad you eoncentrate on firing up your own teammates." 
Final rail y 
•
In 


Fieldhouse 
ThP I'Pp ){ally for Saturday's Notr<' DamP-Tulane football ganw will he held in the Old l•'ieldhousP this Friday night at 
H: ·15. This will be the first rally lwld thl'r<' since the Air Force rally, two years ago. 
llalfhack Gary Diminick, who has seen considerable action with the Irish varsity this fall, was the leading rusher and pass receiver on Notre Dame's I\J70 freshman !Pam. lie ran 34 times for 110 yards and two touchdowns and caught II passes for 145 yards. 
1 c;porg1a t~O, M !'>ntrellame(7·1) 9 .\riznna Stat•• (i·1)
Mike is a history major who 
10 Stanfon! ( l 2)would like to follow two ex­II Tennp"'"'' (1>2) 
(;reenie linebackers, Rick 12. Colorado (7-2) 
12 Texas (6-2) . . 
Kingr<'a !Cleveland Browns) and 
1-1 Toledo (9-0)Bay lll'st<'r (New Orleans Saints) F> South••rn !'allf~rnw (:l-41 16 Ohw Stale (7·tl
into the professional ranks two 
17. Arkan,;os (6-2·1) years from now. IS Houston (1>-21 19 Washmr,>tnn (7·21
And if being emblematic of the 
~ l.ouos1ana Stah· (6-2)
"rww school" in linebacking is C~hers N-rc·1vm~ voiPs. hstrd alpha· bPt1callv Cornell. F"londa StaiP, M1rh1·
worth anything, Mike Mullen will 
gan Stair, MJSsiSSippl, ~•orth Carolina
he at the head of his class. 
PoloIs 
:w. 
:!07 :?79 .2:17 197 lSI 167 
~() 
46 
:n 
19 
II 
7 6 
2 
2 
2 
.-? 
I 1160 
96X 
N7~ 7:\~ 
IHH liOI 
~;,1 
446 
2H:I 
~55 
226 
21~1 
13R 
121 5!1 
.)fi 
;~1 
.47 :16 29 


The Deity and Notre Dame fans may think so but the pollsters rlisal!ree. The Irish were ranked eighth in both the A.P. and U.P.I. wire-service ratings this week. 
Irish present awards 
The Notre Dame Football team h<'ld its weekly awards day Monday at Cartier Field, and Halph Stepaniak, Walt Patulski, and John Cieszkowski received top honors. 
Stepaniak was awarded the game ball, while Patulski received the defensive award and "Cisco" won the offensive honors. 
The "net" award was presented to Freshman Coach Dmnis Murphy, who accepted on behalf of the Irish yearlings. 
The award was earned by the baby Irish for the squad's per­
formance  in  bobbling  the  ball  
away  against  Michigan  last  
Saturday.  

The sweep of the awards day honors by the "Polish Irish" <Slepaniak, Patulski and ('ieszkowski are all of Polish descent l prompted equipment manager Gene O'Niell to label the ceremony "Dyngus Day", which is in fact a Polish holiday, eelebrated every year on Easter Monday. 
============Vic D or r ::::================================================================================================================================================:===================================:====================================================================== 

Always a bridesmaid ••• 
:::::::::::::~===~=~=~=~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~::;;;~:~:~:~:~:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~:~:~:~:~:::~:~:~:::::::~:::~:::~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:~:;:::: 
In many ways, pro football is a game of emotion. It is a game of anger and of joy, a game of wild celebrations after big wins, and of deep depression after key losses. Of course, the players are those who most often experience these emotions, but then, so do the fams. 
And believe me, I know. I've been following the Dallas Cowboys for five years now, and during this time I've experienced very little gladness and very much frustration while waiting for a World Championship ... a World Championship that is yet to come. 
I became a Dallas fan midway through the 1967 season, and I can still remember the game that did it. The date was October 8, and the Cowboys were playing Washington in D.C. Stadium. The game was carried over the radio, but I didn't pay any attention to it until late in the fourth period. Dallas held a 10-7lead at the time, but with just over three minutes left to play, Sonny Jurgensen zipped an eight-yard scoring toss to Charley Taylor to put the 'Skins in front. 
"Oh, boy," screamed the Redskin announcer, "just look at the Washington bench. Those Redskins are ecstatic down there." Right then, I began to pull for Dallas. And the Cowboys pulled the game out, though they waited until the last minute to do it. Running-back Dan Heeves slipped out of the backfield with seconds left to play, and quarterback (Dandy) Don Meredith hit him with a 30-yard TD pass to 
give the Cowboys the game.  
"Well,"  moaned  the  Washington  announcer,  "just look  at  the  
l{<'dskins' bench now. Those guys are spoplectic down there .. ''  
Dallas finished  the  '67  season  with  a  9-5  record,  and  met  the  

Cleveland Browns in the Conference playoffs. Cleveland was a strong team that year, but Dandy Don had his finest day against them, and he led Dallas to a landslide win. 
The followiag week, we (the Cowboys) ran up against Green Bay in the famous "Ice Box Game." The Cowboys felt that they were peaked and ready for Lombardi and his Packers. but the Green Bay coach had other ideas. So did the weatherman. 
As the Cowboys' team bus fought its way through the pre-game traffic at Lambeau Field, defensive aend George Andric leaned for­ward in his seat, and said to the player sitting in front of him: "I called the weather bureau this morning, and the girl who answered said the temperature was -16 degrees. That can't be right, can it'? She must have meant 16 above." She did't. 
The game itself is well known, so there's no use rehashing it. It was by far the coldest championship game on record, but the Cowboys gave a terrific account of themselves anyway. Anyone who can say that Dallas choked in '67 is crazy. They didn't choke. They fell victim to three things: two old pros named Lombardi and Starr, and the -16 degree weather. 
The Cowboys produced a lot of great plays in that game: Danny l{e<'ves' 50-yard option pass to Lance Rentzel, Andric's seven-yard run with a Gr<'en Bay fumble for a TD, Phil Clark's recovery of another Parker fumble on a punt...it's just too bad that Starr had to wipe it all out. 
But it was impossible to be upset with the team, even though the loss to Gret>n Bay was their second runner-up finish in as many years. After all. the Cowboys were still a young team, and the fact that they eould fight Lombardi's Packers all the way to the wire seemed to hear nothing but encouragement for 1968. 
And thP way Dallas began that 1968 season, it looked like they were going to become winners at last. Meredith led the red-hot Texans to a fi-0 record, and the streak didn't end until Dallas met a so-so Green Bay team in the s<'ason's seventh game. Green Bay won, 2H-17, and it's really hard to say just what happened. I don't know--maybe Dallas tried to hard... or maybe they wanted the game too much-I just don't know. 
But that loss was only one of two which the team suffered in '68, and for the second year in a row Dallas met Cleveland in the Conference playoffs. I honestly thought we were going to win it all that year, but Frank Gifford hinted otherwise during his pregame show for that Conference title game: 
"Last year," said Gifford, "the Cowboys beat Cleveland in the playoffs, 52-14. But that was a fluke. Big scores in playoff games always are. So don't look for it to happen again today." 
To say the least, it didn't happen again. The Browns trounced Dallas, 31-20, and then the "choke" talk started seriously. But the team bounced back by downing Minnesota in the Playoff Bowl, and then it was just a matter of looking forward to "next year"--again. 
But "next year" began on a gloomy note for the Cowboys-and for their fans. Meredith retired just weeks before training camp was to open, and so did halfback Don Perkins. Perkins' retirement didn't bother me so much, but Meredith's did. Because even then--even in 1969--1 didn't care for the idea of Craig Morton running the team. 
But I've got to give Craig credit. He performed well that year, and he--along with rookie Calvin Hill--led the team to an 11-2-1 record, and to a third playoff meeting with the Bowns. In that playoff game , though, Craig did just what I'd been afraid of. He started to think, he started to worry about the pressure, and he performed miserably. The Browns devoured Dallas, 38-14, and then the Rams snacked on what was left by kicking the Cowboys in the Playoff Bowl, 31-0. 
Exactly what was wrong? 
No one seemed to know the answer, and when Dallas started out the 1970 season by losing four out of their first nine games, no one seemed to care. The Cowboys became something of a joke in the NFC East, and often I was tempted to join in the laughter. But always there were other weeks, and always there chance that Coach Tom Landry would bring the team around. 
And then he did just that. The Dallas coach began calling the of­fensive plays himself, the Doomsday defense began playing with its old spirit, and Dallas began winning. Oh, Morton was still Morton, but no one seemed to notice as the team rolled up five straight wins, and once again found itself in the playoffs--this time against Detroit. 
Although Craig had a "fine" day against the Lions (4 of 18 for 38 yards), so did the Dallas defense, and the Cowboys won, s-o. The next week, Dallas met San Francisco, and 'San Francisco met Duane Thomas, and Dallas won again, 17-10. 
And then there was the Super Bowl. I'll always believe that Dallas should have won that game, but a very questionable call by the of­ficials and three Craig Morton interceptions made the game what it was. As a Cowboys fan, I'd literally waited years for a Super Bowl win, so the loss was a painful one for me. And it must have been just that much more painful for the Dallas players and coaches. 
The Super Bowl is not my fondest memory of the 1970 season. That mPmory is from the NFC title game in San Francisco, from the vic­torious Dallas locker room. It is a memory of Tom Landry sitting on a stool and telling reporters: 
"You don't know how it feels ... you can't imagine how it l'el'ls ... b<'cause you've never been--you've never suffered with us like wP 'vc sufferPd. You know, with those losses in the last four years, and all." • 
I know, Tom. I know. 



THE OBSERVU. 
Basketball benefit Nov. 22 
by Noli Kane 
The freshman and varsity squads will play their only pre­season basketball scrimmage at 
11:00 p.m. in the Athletic and Convocation Center, Monday, November 22. People will be admitted if they donate non­perishable food, clothing or toys, which are scheduled to be distributed to the South Bend needy for Thanksgiving. For those who do not donate food or clothing, the admission charge is 25 cents for students and 50 cents 
Ni XQI!~~rog ram 

White House accepts,labor rejects 
(Continued from page 3) 
workers. 
--No general dicision has been reached about the retroactive payment of wages to teachers other than that they probably will not be eligible for such pay under a clause of the policy statement granting retroactivity when it is 

._ ..... an established practice. Comments today by pay board members also shed additional light on certain general aspects of the new wage policy: --the 5.5 per cent guideline will include fringe benefits as well as wages. However, it was pointed out that, because the raise would be calculated on a base that in­cluded fringe benefits, the impact of this ruling was minimal. --New contracts negotiated in the freeze will probably not be subject to the rule prohibiting retroactive wage payments. --There is unlikely to be any adjustment of the wage payments. 
-There is unlikely to be any 

From the land of British Racing Green. 
Only 24of the top racing drivers in the world are eligible to compete in all International Grand Prix. 
More than halfofthem are British. 
For the British, cars are a very no-nonsense, unfrilly business. In a car, they regard beauty as a function of how 
beautifully it functions, and 
nothing reflects this more than the classically British TR-6. 
for non-students. 
A half-time program featuring University President Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, retiring South Bend mayor Lloyd Allen, and the Boys Glee Club is ten­tatively planned. 
A Notre Dame-St. Mary's volunteer committee will mange the Thanksgiving charity benefit, which was instigated by Coach Hichard "Digger" Phelps. South Bend businesses are being asked to donate money to the drive, and Mayor Lloyd Allen has proclaimed November 22 a city-
adjustment of the wage guideline because of short-range shifts iiJ productivity, the hourly output per worker. The pay board regards the 3 per cent long-range annual increase in productivity as a fixed figure in its 
calculations. 
contact Dorchack at 6321\ 

--The question of what con-'---...----------.-1 stitutes an "unreasonably in-board' broad rules ready by the consistent" deferred wage in-time the freeze expires at mid­crease under an existing contract night Saturday, it might be has deliberately been left am-months before rules governing biguous by the board. Although a most of the details of wage level of 7 to 8 per cent was controls were compl~ted. discussed by the board, all deferred increases that do not fall 
in the category of "unreasonably 

inconsistent" will be allowed. Big treat for everybody tonight: 
Several pay board members 

conceded that there are many It's International Buffet' 
ambiguous aspects to the policy by Joe De Long

statement issued yesterday. The precise nature of the controls, The Notre Dame Food Services they said, will be spelled out in will have a festive "International the rules promulgated to im­Buffet" on Wednesday, pelement the policy. November tenth from five p.m. to 
They added that although they six-thirty p.m. at the North and hoped to have the most important South Dining Halls. 
It is English to the core. and topped off with a couple of In fact, it's just about all core­comfortable reclining seats to 
a big, beautifully engineered sit in it with. 
6-cylinder motor, powering 
The classically British TR-6, 
a sturdy transmission that 

is an utterly straightforward, 
slides solidly from one gear 

square-jawed kind ofcar.
into another. 
The kind they don't make
A heavy-duty independent 

anymore, anywhere but England. 
suspension thatcan take any­thing that any road can dish out. • h All tightly put together in a The Classically Bribs 
body~w!)iiiilthliriiuiiggleiidl,crlj;le~a~n;;lilne1s;;llil;:;;;,l,.riumph TR-6~
~ 


CE 











ILIEIIII• 
916 E. McKinley, Mishawaka Phone 255-4751 
wide Volunteer Services Dav. 
The University has "backed the idea all the way.'' according to Hod Bray, on-campus publicity manager for the benefit. The volunteer committee obtained use of the ACC for "minimum costs" due to the "cooperation of the Sports Department and of Convocation Manager John Plouff." Braye said. 
However. the final success of the drive, Braye contended, "depends on student response." The committee will need volunteers to distribute the goods 

Wednesday, November 10, 1971 



A Youth Coalition for Muskie is being formed on campus or the Notre Dame-St. Mary's com­munities by Joe Dorchack. The purpose of the organization is to help further the presidential aspirations of Senator Muskie. 
Dorchack hopes to involve a "broad spectrum" of the two campuses in this attempt to aid Muskie. All interested should 

f; 

Digger Phelps Rod Braye and usher or take tickets at the should contact Jim Brogan or the game. Students who want to help Student Government Offices. 
Theo. Lecture. Tonite 
The STudent Union Academic .:::ommission and Theology Departments will host an illustrated lecture-seminar (series) on Teilhard de Chardin's masterwork The Phenomenon of Man in the Library Auditorium on Wednesday. November 10 at 8:00p.m 
The program will be presented by the Phenomenon of Man Project, Inc. <POM Projectl, a non-profit corporation from the Los Angeles area, formed in 1962 
The meal will include dishes from twelve countries. All are authentic national foods. 
The appetizers include Chun Kune (Shrimp Egg rolls---a Chinese dish) salted celery, bean sprouts, onions, shrimps, and seasonings, all batter fried and served with a hot mustard dip. The dining halls will also serve Tacos and an antipaste tray of cheese cubes, salami, onions, vegetables, peppers, carrots, celery and cocktail franks. 
The entrees will be Fisch (fresh halibut steak l in Pikanter Sauce (Germany), Murgi Masala (Chicken Curry) from India, Seafoods <fresh fried shrimps, scallops) and Vegetables Tempura <from the Japanese formulae); Pork Adoba (from the Phillipines) and Kielbasa (sausage> from Poland. 
other countries repr:esented by their national dishes will be Syria with Salatat Khodar, a salad of lettuce, tomato, onion, and cucumber slices in olive oil; Greece: Baklova, a dessert of thin-layered dough with nuts; Israel: Halvah candies, and llolland: Chocolate Noten Tart (nut cake.) 
ND director of food services Edmund Price said that he "cordially invites" all foreign faculty members and students to dine "in the typical costume of his country," as guests of the Notre Dame Food Service. 

SMC SOPH. CLASS: 

''JOE '' 
Fri. Nov. 12 0 'laughlin Aud. at 8 and 10 pm admission $1 
to increase interest in and un­derstanding of Teilhard's con­
cepts.  The  general  public  is  
invited.  There is  no  admission  
charge.  

The presentation includes a scientifically accurate but easily understood lecture text, with over 500 color slides, felt-board animation, and other visual demonstrations illustrating Teihard de Chardin's far reaching concepts of man's meaning and destiny. 
Responses from questionnaires distributed at each presentation indicate that tis unique multi­faceted or "total" technique of communication has been remarkably successful. Men and women of all ages, all oc­cupations and professions, high school graduates as well as doctors of philosophy, report that this lecture-seminar opens to them not only Teihard's difficult book but an expanded per­spective on the world in which both old knowledge and new ideas begin to fit together in con­structive and challenging pat­terns. The lecture-seminar is a straightforward exposition of Teilhard 's text, without in­terpretation or commentary or any attempt to relate it to any school of scientific, political, or religious opinion. 
Members ofhe pject include: Robert Bainbridge, Ph.D., educator; Donald Bloom, art director; Charles Goetz, nuclear engineer; Ben Lizardi, art director; and Ernest Tamminga, sociologist. 
Teilhard, renowned among scientists for his paleontological contributions, died in New York City in 1955. During his lifetime his writings were suppressed by his church, but since the publication of The Phenomenon or Man. his controversial theores have gained increasing attention throughout the world. Life Magazine described him as "the St. Thoman Aquinas of our age," while Time Magazine has singled himout"one ofthis century's most remarkably prophetic thinkers." 



