---------~----~---~~. -------~--~----~-~ 


more clouds today as the temperature makes like a yo.yo. numbers: 60 degrees today, 40 tonight. it might rain tonight, too. 
Volume VI, No. JS 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 




Michael DeCicco, NO fencing coach worries about will happen to the new girl's fencing team. The team has been barred from using the ACC. 
Jack Candon and Eric Andrus announced yesterday that they have reached their goal of nearly 1000 tickets in the ticket exchange for the Navy game. According to Jack, the problem now is getting enough drivers to drive the kids from their schools to the game and back. They need around fifty drivers to get the job done. If you'll help, come to the meeting for the drivers which is going to be tonight at 10 o'clock in the Fista Lounge of the LaFortune Student Center. Don't let the kids down. 
'rhursday, October 28, 1971 
SMC girls invade ND athletic scene 
by ANTHONY ABOWD and GEORGE LUND 
SMC girls have invaded the sacred athletic facilities at N.D. Most people like the idea and the University plans much expansion of co-ed facilities. 
"While we are not legally unified we-are functionally unified. We try wherever possible to coordinate facilities," said N. D. Physical Education Chairman Dr. Thomas Jt'allon. 
The Rockne Building is available to SMC girls at any time after P.E. classes end. The Rock has locker and shower facilities for up to 50 girls. 
At the ACC only the skating rink is open to SMC girls during normal public skating hours. John F. Plouff, Managing director of the ACC said that the building had no women's locker room as yet. 
Plouff said, "We will be prepared 1972 to take care of SMC students". Separate showers, exercise room and tennis courts are planned. 
<;oon REACTION 
"We are quite pleased with the reaction so far," Dr. Fallon said. Swimming is the most popular among the girls. But ladies have also been seen playing raquet ball, and exercising on gymnastic equipment. 
Dr. Fallon added that not too many girls use the Rockne gym­nasium. "There could be a con­frontation over use of the basketball court, especially when the weather gets cold~ but the guys wanted the girls in so they should be able to work it out ," he said. 
CO-ED PIIYS ED 
Presently there is no co-ed Phys. Ed program for ND. Dr. Fallon said, "I don't know what the future holds but our program is easily adaptable." 
Dr. Fallon added that there would be no problem if girls are required to take phys. ed. SMC presently has an elective program for freshmen. The final decision on co-ed phys. ed would rest with the adminitration. 
Both Plouff and Fallon stated that their facilities could easily absorb girls. "This might make phys. ed more attractive to the guys, "Dr. Fallon said. He pointed out that this year was somewhat experimental and so far no unexpected ,Problems have arisen. 
HOCKNE ATTENDANCE UP 
Attendence is up at the Rockne this year despite the pleasant fall weather. Dr. Fallon doesn't know if girls arc a factor but the average attendance after 3:00 is over 300 people. Over 9,000 people have used the Rockne on afternoons between Sept. 15 and Oct. 18. 
The University converted the old boxing room in the Rockne Building to a girl's locker room. The shower facilities formerly belonged to the golf dressing room. The locker room is carpeted and has several hair dryers. "No matron has been needed yet," said Dr. Fallon. He also explained that the 
(Continued on page2) 
Gir Is fencing tea~n to be barred froiD ACC 
by Jerry Lutkus 
ND fencing coach Michael DeCicco revealed last night that the girls fencing club he organized has been barred from the Athletic and Convocation Center by the Ad­ministration and the Convo management. 
DeCicco was confronted by ACC manager John Plouff last Tuesday <October 19) and told that his girls, who were practicing at the time, would have leave. According to DeCicco, Plouff "read the riot act to us". 
Plouff, when contacted by the Obst>rver, said that the university policy allows no girls anyplace in the ACC other than on the skating rink. "We are operating on the basis that we'll be ready to handle them (girls) in September of 1972 when they become Notre Dame students," Plouff said. 
DeCicco contacted University ExectJtive Vice-President Reverend Edmund Joyce after the eviction, but Joyce only echoed Plouff's statement, according to DeCicco. 
"He was very negative," the fencing coach said. 
Plouff agreed to allow the girls use of the facilities for the rest of the week, so today will be their last day in the ACC. As of Monday the girls will have no place to practice. DPCicco insists that he will not let the team fold. "I refuse to just pull the pin. We'll practice in the streets if we have to." 
From the looks of things they may just have to. Plouff said that he really doesn't know where there are other fencing facilities on campus. He said that past fencing teams have practiced the Rock and the ficldhouse. Joyce "supposed" that there arc facilities on the St. Mary's campus. 
Despite the current situation, the fencing mentor expressed some hope. ~'I'll find some place. There's bound to be a room or a basement over at St. Mary's that we can use." 
DeCicco wasn't able to understand why girls could use the facilities. According to the fencing coach, it was "senseless" to practice someplace else when such "hand­some" facilities existed in the ACC. 
The girls took up no locker space in the convo. They changed and showered at St. Mary's. 

DeCicco expressed great disap­pointment over the whole affair. "It's l'asy to forget something before you've even started it, but it's really tough to stop something after you've started it." · 
lie noted that "maybe there are internal politics afoot here", con­l'erning the incorporating of girls into the Notre Dame program. 
!Continued 011 paj!e .1) 

--~ -~--~---~--~ -~ .----------------------­
Trustees' answer to SLC forthcoming 
by Ann-Tht"rese Darrin 
A reply to the Student Life Council Hall Life Report by the Board of Trustees will .be released within twenty-four to forty-eight hours, Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, university president, claimed last night. 
"We presented it to the Board of Trustees over the weekend," the administrator acknowledged in a speech at Zahm Hall. "After a lengthy five and a half hour discussion, the Board asked me to write the reply to Mr. Eagan <chairman of the SLCL" 
Two weeks ago the SLC passed the Committee report by a 16-8 vote minus its preamble and an article on judicial boards. Mr. William Eagan, forwarded the recommendations to the President's Office. 
After the session, Fr. Hesburgh denied that any administrator had leaked information on the results of the Trustees' meeting to WSND, the student radio station. 
"I gave my secretary orders," Fr. Hesburgh, recounted, "not to release the information to anyone until Mr. Eagan's secretary has verified that he has received it. 
Then Jean Horinzy of press information has been instructed to release copies to the OB­SERVER, the SCHOLASTIC and WSND." 
He added that Rev. James T. Burtchaell taped his weekly WSND show Wednesday evening on what information he could release. 
Fr. Hesburgh said he told Fr. Burtchaell not to release any of it yet, a request he assumes was followed. 
Hesburgh did not elaborate on his answer to the SLC statement. 
Speaking on coeducation, the administrative head emphasized, "We're going to have coeducation 

Father Hesburgh talked to the residents of Zahm Hall last night. 
here one way or another." "I hope it's with St. Mary's" he added. 
Citing the 125-year history of interaction between the neigh­boring schools, Fr. Hesburgh stressed several times Notre Dame's indebtedness to the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 

"For the first 100 years, we were really poor," he related. "Over 100 nuns lived behind the administration building. They did all of the cooking, nursing, laundry, and housekeeping. They kept this place going. We really owe them a lot." 
Questioned on the recent financial roadblocks to the unification of Notre Dame with St. Mary's, Fr. Hesburgh noted, "We are right in the middle of negotiations. We had two meetings last week and probably will have many more in the next couple of weeks." 
He forecasted a settlement on the finances of coeducation, including agreement with the Sisters of the Holy Cross on annual rent for the SMC buildings by Notre Dame. 


SMC students are using ND facilities 
(Continued from page 1) 

driving range and even the whole wing could be converted into womens locker facilities. 
SWIMMING POOL 

Brother Louis who is in charge of the swimming pool is satisfied with the co-ed swimming program. "Sometmes we have more girls than guys here and I haven't seen any problems." · 
"We've been talking about co­ed classes," Br. Louis added. He is currently conducting a water safety class that includes some girls Monday's at 7:00p.m. 
"There are some rather good swimmers at SMC, many with high school competition. We even have a girl lifeguard. The girls have been asking for their own version of the interhall swim meet just to see how much talent is present." Br. Louis said. Swimming coach Dennis Stark is planning a meeting with in-terested girl swimmers. 

A quick survey revealed almost unanimous approval of the co-ed swimming. Chuck Mosca, a senior at ND and a pool lifeguard thinks it is great. "It makes it a lot more pleasurable to life guard here.~· he said. 
Arno Zoske, a Phys. Ed. in­structor said. "It's great. Now is the perfect time for men to use the swimming pool." 
Terry Auda is a freshman at SMC. She swam the breaststroke in the 1968 Olympics. She said, "I'd like to see a girl's swimming team here. There are a lot of girl swimmers in this school." 
Mary Ann Marion, a sophomore, said essentially the same thing. She swims at the Rock almost every day. 
Judi Offerly, also a SMC sophomore is starting a girls fencing team along with a dozen 
other girls. "This is on ND girls 
fencing team, not an SMC one." 
she stated. 
LANGUAGE AND ONE 
DISSENTER 
Dr. Fallon warned girls using 
the Rock to come in the front door 
and follow the signs. "Otherwise 
there might be a little em-, 
barrassment. The building was 
not designed for coed use." he 
said. 
Dr. Fallon added "If anything 
the language here has improved, 
not much, but it has." 
The sole dissenter to this whole 
program might well be Big Ed in 
the Rockne towel room. But even 
he reluctantly said, "It's great, 
things have picked up around 
here." 

Most of the discussion centered on Fr. Hesburgh's letter to the students Oct. 11 approving the sanctions which the Board of Trustees wishes to impose. 
Although the univer­sity president would not ;ldmit that he wanted a "toning down of the whole parietals mess," he seemed exasperated by the persistent questioning. 
"It is impossible to have a rational discussion about it," he sa'id. "I send a simple letter and the person who writes editorials goes haywire." 
Hesburgh did not designate whether he was refering to OBSERVER or SCHOLASTIC editorials. 
"The parietals things is a peanut question compared to other things such as how we're going to integrate 2500 girls into a male campus. It complicates and distracts you from the main things," he insisted. 
"Last year there was an enormous effort to treat people like adults and they acted like 
children," he said. He substantiated this charge by citing $80,000 of destruction and 
vandalism, 2-3 student deaths from "overdrinking", and "several kids whose lives are still fouled up by drugs ... a student knifing in which the student judicial court slapped the assailant on the wrist and gave him a $4.30 fine ...lt was a pretty bad year." 
Questioned on the effect of the wage-price freeze on the university, Fr. Hesburgh replied it "murdered" the faculty "whose raises should have become effective in September after the Aug. 16 deadline." 
"We put all of the 'raise' money in a special fund and are currently petitioning the government to let us give it out retroactive to last September," he explained. 
Commenting on the Nixon appointees to the Supreme Court, Fr. lies burgh, also chairman of the U.S. Civl Rights Commission, stated, "I'm afraid the Supreme Court is going to get a lot more strict. My guess is that the Court will take a more structured approach ... They will become strict constructionists instead of the idealistic leadership needed." 
He termed the Nixon ad­ministration "minimalistic" in general on social legislation. 
AUTUMN RETREAT 
An experience in Christian sharing 
Sat. and Sun~, Nov. 6 and 7, SM C Clubhouse Open to 32 ND-SM C Students Deadline: Tue. Nov. 2 
for info and reservations call Fr. Roger Cormier (5389) or Tom Stella (1168) 

...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance calls from your room simply by telling the operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates tra 25-cent additional charge made on every gtation-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 
Indiana Bell 
Thursday, October 28, 1971 THE OBSERVER Page 3 


world briefs 

(cl 1!171 New York Times 
Washington--Presidential Adviser Henry A. Kissinger said Wed­nesday that President Nixon and his Chinese counterparts hope to restrict their substantive talks during Nixon's forthcoming China visit to issues between the two countries, refraining from discussi(>nS in­volving third parties, which would exclude the war in Vietnam. 
United Nations, N.Y .--Mainland China was urged by Secretary General Thant of the United Nations to send a security council representative as soon as possible because a meeting of the security council might be called at any moment by he President. A United Nations spokesman said that if China replies by the end of this month, her representative could be the security council's president next month. 
Washington--In an uncharacteristically angry statement, the White House expressed shock and dismay at the cheering, handclapping and dancing of some United Nations Delegates after the vote to admit Mainland China and expel Taiwan Monday ight. Such behavior could very seriously impair support for the United Nations in the country and in the Congress, a spokesman said. 
on campus 
4: 15--lecture, timothy binkley, the justification of violence, 127 niewland 
8:00--forum, profs. rakowski, bennelle, trubac, dugan, the freeze, phase II, and the future, library auditorium 
8: 00--lecture, francesc vendell, red china's entry into the un, room 10_2, the law sxhool 10:00--meeting, drivers needed for the navy game ticket rpoject, fiesta lounge of the Iafortune student center 


today 
ND Dl'mocrats 

The Notre Dame Democrats ml.'t this week to mark the beginning of their activity for this vear. The club is to serve as a i:learing,-house for ideas and for nction; among the activities of the club shall be the invitation of speakers who are preminent in the Democatic Party, including allof the candidates for the Democratic presi den ti a I. nomination. It will work with the DPmocratic Party in South Bend in an attempt to make that party 
l'leasl' (live Us An Hour Of Your Time 
Without your help, the llnited Fund stands to lose about $200....money that would otherwise be helping tht> Council for the Ht'tarded, the Legal Aid ~ociety. Family and t'hildren's Center, and the Mt'ntal Health Association according to Human Ht'lations Commissioner Hurt Hrt>nner. 
About $:1110 were invested in shamrocks to be sold brforl' last week's football game, but so few volun­ll'l'rs showed up that, unll'ss forty to fifty guys and girls ht>lp out this Wl't>kt>nd, United Fund will takl' a big loss. Those who ran help should report to tht> hallway next to the Art (iallery in O'Shaughnessy llall between IO::m and 12:UUon Saturday morning. 
All tht>y are asking for is an hour of your time, so you don't have to miss the gaml'. 




ArOund -the Campus 
more responsive to the needs of the community, particularly students, the unemployed, and blacks. Although the club shall begin its main activities shortly before the Indiana primary next vear. new members are "'Picome, as the club is seeking to Pstablish a basis for its activities later in the .year. Those in­terested in joining the club may contact the president, Dennis Wall, at telephone number 8510, or. Bill Phillips, the vice­prl'sident, at 8907. 
Cat Stevens 
The Social Commission of Student Union announced yesterday evening that they will bt• placing more Cat Stevens tickets on sale. The tickets will ~o on sale Thursday at the dinner hour in the Notre Dame dining halls. The ticket prices will be the sam(• as before. 
No girls allowed on fencing team 
(Continued from page 1) 
Several girls approached DeCicco last September and asked him to help form the team, he said. He and several members of the varsity squad offered to coach the girls. DeCicco then went to Dominic Napolitano, director of non-varsity sports for approval. Napolitano "seemed very encouraged." so DeCicco proceeded with the plan. 
About 20 girls showed up for the first meeting and as practices continued, the squad whittled itself down to about 12 members. But after 10 days of practice, Mr. Plouff interceded. 
DeCicco offered to pay a rental fee to use the ACC, but has had no 
response. 

V2 PRICE COLOR PRINTS? 
SAVE ON SLIDES -MOVIES -B&WPRINTS, TOO 
This low price saves you up to 50% over usual "drug store" prices, rushes high quality color prints back to your door in just a few days. Try the film service used on many mid-west and southern campuses. 
SO EASY, SO CONVENIENT ... just use your own envelope and the coupon below. Fill in name and address, write name on roil or cartridge, enclose coupon and remittance. Or, use the coupon to get film mailers and dis­count coupons; order film and flashes at low prices ..• a better deal than "free" film. Savings and processing quality guaranteed. 
: YOUR ORDER MUST INCLUDE THIS COUPON­
• Name 
•• Addre~' 
e City State .t-----...Zip__ 


• 
i 1 Send me free f1lm mailtr envt'lope and discount hi-ftt1u coupon 0 12 e>p Black & While 1.29

• 
[J 
20 e•p. Black & Whole 1.99e 0 I'm enclosml(. 


rolls of film and payment (plus 0 20 exp. Slides or 8 mm MOYies 1.41 
t.u mOh1ol
• 0 Send me lresh Kodacolor lilm andlqr !lashes e 
• D I am enclosing an extra 25( per roll lor express Circle your size: fhmil lwol .88¢ each • 
handhnK and h,.l.clm mail return tnslamalic 126·12 -127-120-620 • ••a. Prln Ytu '" Circle your flash: Uimitlwo sleeves) .. 88t each • e 0 12 e•p Kodacolor $2.99 $2.33 Cubes-AG·I-M·2-M.J e • 0 20 "'P Kodacolo< ~.~9 3.55 MaKicube• .$!.19 each • 
• MAIL TO: SPE-D-PICS ·Box 299 • Clnclnnall, Ohio 45214 • Depl. NO • 
Yeu Pay e .99 • 1.55 

1.22 \• 
•
•
•
•
•
• 

Academic Commision Forum will examine motives, goals, and repurcussions of the policy and 
The Academic Commission is provide for discussion between sponsering an economics forum­the speakers. Presentations will debate on Nixon's stabilization be made by Professors Rakowski policy tonight at 8:00 in the and Bennelle of the economics 
library auditorium. The forum 
department and Professor 
•


an econo:rn1cs foru:rn 
featuring 
Frank Bonello James Rakowski Dennis Dugan Edward Truhac 
on 

''The Freeze: Phase II and the Future" 
Tonight Library Auditorium 8:00 Free presented by the Academic Commission 
Should you drink beer straight from the bottle? 
If you're on a blanket party or something, carrying along a glass is pretty clumsy. But when it's convenient, we think it's a shame not to use one. Keeping Budweiser inside the bottle or 

the fun. 

Those tiny bubbles getting organized at top of your glass have to do with taste and aroma. Most beers have carbonation pumped in mechanically. Not Budweiser. We go to a barrel 
Trubac of the finance depart­ment. The discussion will be moderated by Professor Dugan, chairman of the economics department. The title of the forum will be "The Freeze, Phase II, and the Future". 
of trouble and expense to let Budweiser create its own bub­bles with the natural carbona­tion of Beechwood Ageing. So you really can't blame us for you to get it at its 
Just for fun, pour your 
next four· or five bot­
tles of Bud, into a 
glass. If you don't 
agree that the extra 
taste, clarity and aroma make a big difference, go back to the bottle . 
We won't say another word. 

Budweisecis the King ofBeers® 
(Rut you know that.) I 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH. INC. • ST.LOUIS • NEWARK • lOS ANGFLES • TAMPA • HOUSTON • COLUMBUS w JACkSONVIll£ • MERRIMACK 
I • • • • • e • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ~_,L------------­,1 
) 



THE OBSER,VER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 

l•:ditor-in-Chief. Glm S. Corso .\ssistant EditorAssistant Editor 
All successful ncw,papcrs are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
ceaseless! y q ucrulous and bellicose. They never defend 

.\d,·ertising Manager 
Business Manager anyone or anything if they can help 
Jim Jendryk 'ol; it the '1ob ·,s forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Business: 283-7 4 71 News: 283-1715 
Let the GirIs Fence 
Paradoxes are always a lot of fun. They aren't too much fun for the person or persons who try and promulgate them, but they are hilarious for those who watch the perpetrators try and explain their way out of them. 
Gales of laughter should sweep both campuses as Fr. Joyce or Mr. Plouff try and explain why SMC girls are allowed in the Rock, but not in the Convocation Center. 
The only people who won't be laughing will be those connected with the girl's fencing team. They won't be laughing·because they're the big losers in the latest little bungle by the administration. 
Fencing Coach Mike DeCicco, after being approached with the possibility, set the team up in September. The team started with 20 girls and a corp of 12 developed as practice continued. 
Ten days later the girls found themselves out on the street. Michael the Archangel, in the guise of ACC Manger John Plouff, swooped down on the unsuspecting squad and ordered them from the Convo. 
Their crime?---being of the female sex. 
Once the news broke that girls were being allowed to swim in the Rock's 1 pool it appeared that Notre Dame no longer considered being an athletically minded SMC girl taboo. 
The girl's fencing team found out otherwise. 
While the Rock has decided to recognize equlaity of the sexes, the ACC is still stub~ornly holding out:"The girls on the fencing team didn't use the lockerroom, they didn't demand use of shower facilities, and they used the practice room when no one else needed it, but they were still thrown out. 
Plouff explained that SMC girls can't use the Convo until they officially become ND student next year. Apparently whoever runs the Rock thinks otherwise. As of last night there was no indication that the manager of the Rock was going to be fired for running counter to official University Policy. 
The girl's fencing team is having its last practice session in the Convo tonight. After that they will be scrounging around for a place to fence. Fr. Joyce said he thinks there should be space available over at St. Mary's to practice. 
Well maybe there is and maybe there isn't. That's not the question though. Girls can swim at the Rock but they can't use an unoccupied room over at the Convo to practice fencing. 
There'~ no good reason to keep the girls out of the Convo. Several hundred St. Mary's girls descending on the Convo might mess things up a bit, but 12 girls waving a bunch of sabers and foils around aren't going to bother anyone. 

Of course, we won't consumate this marriage until 197 4 or '7 5, but..... 
Thursday, October 28, 1971 

The New York Times-------­
In the Nation: Reality and Unreality 
------------Tom Wicker 
(c) I !Iii New York Times News Service In politics and diplomacy, facing reality seems the exception rather than the rule, and the half-truth, the half-measure and the blindfold are commonplace. If for no other reason, the United Nations' clear­cut decision to seat the Peking Government and oust the Nationalist Chinese was exciting and unusual. Unfortunately, the politics of unreality already has started to reassert itself. What the delegates did on Monday night faced reality in two signiicant ways. The first, and most important, was in the simple recognition of what most of the world has long conceded -that the Communist Government in Peking is, in fact, the controlling regime for the vast Chinese Mainland and population, and faces no actual challenge from the Nationalists on Taiwan. The second reality derived from the first. If, in fact, Peking represents the Chinese people and Mainland, then Taipei could not also claim to do so; it could at best represent something else. But what was at stake was the representation of China. Thus, although American politics and Cold War History have made a "two Chinas policy" desirable in some ways, the concept had no basic logic -­particularly since the one thing on which Peking and the Nationalists agree is that Taiwan is an integral part of China. If facing reality were to be the rule, rather than the exception, the next step would be to find some acceptable way to deal with the question of Taiwan, particularly the native Taiwanese people as distinguished from the Nationalist Chinese. . . But the votes had scarcely been cast at the United Nations before all sorts of unrealities began to obscure the result. It was only to be expected, of course, that Chiang Kai-Shek would protest bitterly, although his claim that the United Nations had taken "illegal action" echoed rather hollowly. Similarly, the Nationalist plan to continue in the world bank and other U.N. agencies is likely to run squarely against the hard fact of a new situation. That situation is that Peking has won the long contest for world recognition as the representative of China; maybe it actually did so when President Nixon announced his forthicoming visit, but the vote in the United Nations signed, sealed and delivered the victory. Twist and turn and delay as they might, the Nationalists are unlikely to find an escape, at least for long, from that reality. Nor will any of the various unrealities being voiced in Congress and elsewhere, even if acted upon, retrieve the old situation; they can only make the new situation less fruitful and more dangerous. Thus, Senator Goldwater, advocating in his old-time form an AI:nerican withdrawal from the United Nations and its expulsion from these sacred shores, would only destroy the usefulness of the world organization and further isolate the United States, for no visible gain. This would be spite diplomacy. More serious proposals to reduce the American contribution to the United Nations and its agencies come perilously close to the same thing. Even Senators Mansfield and Scott, proposing reductions on the ground that the United Nations spends too much anyway, which may be true, would leave the United States open to charges that it was acting in retaliation and in the spirit of the bad loser. This is particularly so since most proposals for reducing the American contribution would not affect the United Nations so much as its subsidi<..·y agencies -the children's Fund, for instance, and the World Health Organization. Is the wealthiest nation on earth (it's time we talked about what's right with America) really to cut its con­tributions to such activities because a bare majority of the other nations of the world refused any longer to yield to the American will on the China issue'? Some senators even seem willing to cut off a hard-nose to spite their faces. Senator Allott of Colorado said that since some NATO allies of the United States had voted for Peking, it would now be more difficult for Congress to make appropriations for NATO. Ifthat is so, it raises the question whether NATO is a necessary defense force for the Western allies, or an American system for rewarding or punishing European governments. Senator Fulbright, in what appears to have b~n an excess of zeal to protect the U.N. contribution, said that he had voted against its position. Similarly, Senator Scott observed plaintively that some foreign-aid recipients had shown "classic lack of appreciation." In reality, a foreign-aid program undertaken as ameans of buying votes in the United Nations, or used to punish independent nations that dared to disagree with the American will, would be a device for in­ternational bribery. And the fact is that these unrealistic responses to 
the reality of the U.N. vote would further erode the United States' standing among nations. 
The Staff 

Nite Editors: Dan Barrett, Joe Abell Layout: Beth Hall, Ken Kampman, Jack Frischkorn, Pete Friese, Anthony Abowd, George Lund Football Coaches: Lutkus, Abell, Donaldson,Dorr 
Weatherman: Abell Nite Controller:John Brady Headlines: Kathy Schwille 
News Editor: Jerry Lutkus SMC Editress: Ann Conway (the swimmer) Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Features Editor: rick smith 
Thursday, October 28, 1971 THE, OBSERVER. 

mary gail peterson 
•
what's a n1ce girl like me... 

Sometime between the time of the Gobbits and the time of the Planets, there was the time of the Merger --and there was I! Then I never thought about us being ethnocentric but now as I look at it, I suppose we were. Oh, but you asked about me at the time .... 
Well, I was a young woman, newly graduated fr~m N?tre Dame with a Master's in Counseling, gomg wtth a Noter Doter and eager to stay in South Bend. Behold! I was offered a job as a counselor at St. Joseph's High School and after some con­sideration, I took it. And lo! I remembered hearing in August about SMC needing someone to live in the dorm as a dorm counselor. I wondered .... I thought 'twould not be bad; in fact, 'twould be good for both me and SMC if I would work for them. So to the office of Dr. Cannon I went. About as dynamic as her name, she interviewed me and I was hired. 
I remembered thinking that since I had been an RA in the dorm as a Senior at my own Alma Mater and had worked as a staff member in the dorm after graduation, I would be an old hand and an asset. I did not think of everyone not knowing me as they had, of being introduced with a label ("counselor") after my name, or being a professional when I was me since there seemed to them to be a difference. 
I suppose I shall always remember those days as the days of the questions: Who are you? What's your name? And I would reply and then there would be a silence unti~ it registered or else discussion would ensue. And then inevitably there would be the startled expression, the gaping mouth and the "Oh, your're a real live counselor!" At that point, I would wiggle my toes (for them) and pinch myself <for mel and draw out my credentials. 
I must say, though, I was well received. They would say they were glad they were getting good service and that it m was a good idea. 'Course after the honeymoon was over, the novelty worn off, 
. and the shininess of my credentials dulled through overuse, I began to wonder what peopJe thought of counselors. Six heads? Green hair? Social ac­tivities: discussion of serious problems? Inhuman? 
Just about the time I was checking in the mirror, I wasaskedto a party or had a good visit with some students. 
Then there was always the advantage of my youth. At St. Jo's, a teacher asked me what homeroom I was in so that gives you an idea of how many people asked me if I was a Freshman at SMC. Not having gone to SMC, I too needed to know where the laundry room was, what time the Shuttle left, and where Madeleva Hall was. 
Yes, I know, I started out with the year of the Merger. Well, you see, counseling means in­tegration among other things to me. And when I think of merger and integration, I think of glue. And glue, literally or figuratively, helps put people and things together. I never did have a pot of glue, then or now, but I figured so long as I was put together, I could help others get themselves together. 
So I reside in LeMans Hall at night as Resident Hall Counselor -in the year of the Merger. Yesterday and Today. Room 225. Phone 4494. 

•
v1ews 



of an 
r. a .... 


-·---­
-· ------­


needed:guest pump-kins .... 
To be loaned for creation of the Sincerest Pumpkir Patch-Urchins' Mass, Keenan. Especially needed: one Super-Pumpkin to serve as King of the Fruits Td 7006 
by ken 


mccandless 
-

Letters to the Editor 
Mail Rape Exposed Hesburgh" and collaring him or her to throw them off the Golden Dome.
Editor: The person who has the in­On Friday, a Walsh resident tellectual gall to make suchcomplained about poor delivery logically incoherent andof on-campus mail. Our sincerest ridiculous analyses of Fr.
apologies to this individual who Hesburgh 's letter, is either in­has obviously experienced an tentionally trying to rally theinfrequent abberation in the students against this school, orservice. 
missed the point of Father'sA possible solution of this letter entirely. I hope the latter is problem of raped mail would be 

true.

for the individual to place an It seems that when he read Fr.
eight cent stamp on his envelope Hesburgh's letter he looked at theand send it the conventional way. 
words instead of the ideas, inHowever, I am confident that for most instances, and ignored theno cost, the on-campus mail theme <contained in the con­system does provide an efficient clusion l entirely.

service for the student body. 
Perhaps I can offer my bid toThere is a considerable volume of £'lucidate Fr. Hesburgh's lettermail each day and I am without having a frustratedknowledgeable of the fact that writer, hot to join theBob Scott, Jack Andryszak, Tom revolutionary bandwagon, tear itThompson, Alicia Purcell, down unmercifully and unin­Allison Kittrel, Joanne Mortimer, telligently.

and Je~m Astans deliver their The question of parietals andmail every day. The problem partying are trivial andarises often when hall irrelevant on their own account,miilmen decide to hoard the OC but in particular here and now atmail for a few days before St. Mary's-Notre Damedelivering it. 
University (coining a new

The hal~ mailman's 
phrase, excuse me).

justification is that the services 
The real problem facing this University <which Fr. Hesburg~Schneid: concludes l is "getting It together" co-educationally.


Hall 
That's what you want, isn't it? Besides, what's more important;
mailmen 
getting the administrations' approval to drink and copulate,
slow 
or making this the best co­cducational university in thecommission doesn't pay them to world?

deliver OC mail, which by the If you desire Fr. Hesburgh toway arrives at their door sorted say, "Go, do what you want;by room number. Last year, the break you own self-respect,Services Commission paid each break the laws, and hurt a lot ofhall mailman $10 a semester to people doing it." you're a fool.
collect and deliver OC mail. As a 
result, the was First you're an absolute fool for
mail rarely delivered because they felt the pay wasn't enough. This year, 

W. Nelson Smith:

Services Commission members deliver the sorted mail with the 
Hesburgh letter

U.S. mail. However, Services still can't afford to pay the hall 
read wrong

mailmen. We get no money from Student Government and the only way we can provide services is by thinking any man who has a sponsering movies and trips to respectable moral code would 
compensate for these ex­offer his approval of licen­penditures. tiousnous, gluttony, and 
If there are any more com­promisculity.plaints about OC mail I would Second you're a fool for appreciate them being directed thinking as a human being, and 
towards myself or the Om­supposedly as one striving for the 
budsman. Then we can contact optimum use of his talents the mailmen and try to find a <through proper education) that 
solution. 
you need promiscuity and im­

Thanks. bibery!Jim Schneid I am fed up with these "kids" Services Commisioner. 
at Notre Dame who want to drink 

P .S. Up to now the Ombudsman and have sex with public ap­has received no complaints. 
proval. If they were real "men" and "women", they'd do it in­The Letter Explained stead of just talking about it, and forget the consequences of get­
Editor: ~ing "caught". · I can bearly restrain myself Of course in the last analysis,
from finding out who wrote that these"men" and "women" are idiotic editorial, "The Letter: just "kids" anyway. So this is it! Make Some Sense, Fr. Listen all ye revelers and 
Cultural Arts ' Commission's Cinema '72 presents 
Man Who Lies 
Engineering Auditorium 
Oct. 27 & 28 (Wed. & Thurs.) . . Sl 7:00 & 9:·00 pm
Ad m1ss1on: .00 Cinema '72 Patron cards free! 
might also have something of

sodomists, the University of Football Nonsense 
value to contribute to theNotre Dame and St. Mary's 

Editor: "psyching-up" process prior toCollege wish to unite and become 
Please put a few lines in the the Michigan State game. Thecoeducational. 
Observer about the nonsense that speaker seemed delighted at theThere will be a lot of major at time onwent on half the prospect of addressing theproblems in doing this, but to fooothall field October 2, 1971. If students. The questions delivered accomplish the goal quickly is some of the student body have by our interviewer were notparamount. Therefore put aside such a need to be seen on TV try ''loaded" in any way and thetrivialities and face reality: to get them a few minutes on TV­responses to those questions wereparietals and drinking are small but-not at half time-where they not rehearsed beforehand--thetime, making this the best co­
interfere with the half time show. 
t>ducational university in the 
We see enough demonstrations 
world is big time. 
without seeing them on the 
Rally Coordinators: football field.
What do you want? Frank Devine Yours in Notre Dame <SMC), Yours truly, 
W. Nelson Smith Tom, Bill, John, Don, Gerry, not very wise Rich, and Ed Westgate A. C. Club 
Brooklyn, New York speaker answered in his own 
Get it Straight! words. The crowd in attendance interpreted the speaker's remarks in whatever manner it
Editor: Devine Wisdom 
chose. Isolated incidents of 

Concerning today's editorial irr heckling did occur, but the THE OBSERVER, it contains one Editor: promoters took every precaution error which in fairness, I thin~ We question the wisdom of the to see that the speaker was not you should correct. The first remarks made by Frank Devine ridiculed. 
paragraph casts me as the in­on his October 20 program We cannot understand how Mr. 
terviewee "our reporter saw "Contact". Mr. Devine Devine can accuse the promoters yesterday." Your reporter did repeatedly referred to a speech of disregarding the speaker'sNOT see me. He telephoned me. delivered by a "notorious feelings while at the same time If there had been an interview, homosexual solicitor" at a local consistently demeaning that perhaps his conclusions as to my hall rally. Mr. Devine further person's reputation before a "diplomacy and good taste" claimed that this man was being radio audience. There were two might gave been quite different. exploited by the people who speakers at the pep rally, and The same mistake is repeated on promoted the rally. Mr. Devine somehow Mr. Devine just doesn't page six, that I "remarked in an concluded that the whole affair mention exactly to whom he isinterview yesterday ..... ". probably typified the abnormal referring; consequently, he has 
Webster's Seventh New atmosphere which supposedly damaged the good name of bothCollegiate Dictionary defines the exists at Notre Dame. 
people.

word interview as: "a meeting at As the host of a program which In summary, let us emphasizewhich a reporter obtains in­reaches thousands of listeners, that the promoters of the rallyformation from a person".' Mr. Devine should have been had no desire or intent to amuseThere-was no meeting, Mr. responsible enough to question a crowd by "ridiculing aCorso, and therefore no in­the promoters thems,elves about homosexual solicitor of youngterview. If I seem to belabor this the inten~ed purpose of the rally men". We feel that Mr. Devinepoint, I do so because I surely before airing his allegations. We owes both the speakers, thewould not attempt to evaluate the who planned the rally had no promoters and the "local hall" an
personality or ability of the lad intention of victimizing the apology for an unwarrantedwho phoned me solely on the speaker in question, nor did we in criticism. Finally, we suggestbasis of a four minute telephone any way. The speaker was in­that if the broadcaster intends toconversation. I consider it unfair vited both because he has become continue crusading beforethat your editorial presented a an institution at this campus and checking the facts, the program's 
harsh protrayal of me by that because he had never before been name should be
"Contact" 

same means. asked to address the student body changed to "Frank Divines". 
at a function of this sort. We felt Yours cordially, that he was as much a J)art of Sincerely,
Notre Dame as any of the
ROBERT CAHILL Coordinators of Wed. Night
students or faculty, and that he
Business Manger of Athletics. Michigan State Pep Rally 
Holiday Bound? 





Stop sitting aroUnd! 
Allegheny's Young Adult Card lets you fly whenever you want to (even holidays), gives you advance reservations and saves you up to 33V3%. 
If you're between 12 and 22, 
what are you waiting for? 
Stop by an Allegheny Airlines 
ticket counter and purchase 
your Young Adult Card. 
Only $5.00 for the rest 
df1971. 
And remember. Allegheny 
also accepts other 
airlines Young Adult 
Cards, too. 
ALLEGHENY AIR SYSTEM® We have a lot more going for you. 

THE OBSERVER. 
Page 7 




Marx meditates Middie murder 
by Vic Dorr, 'H 

The LaFortune Student Center­-on a Wednesday night--is a far cry from Notre Dame Stadium on a Saturday afternoon. But last night, even as he settled himself into one of LaFortune's first floor l'ouches, Greg Marx had no trouble making the transition. 
Marx, at 6-5, 250 lbs, mans the tackle slot on the right side of the Irish defensive line, and last night--in a quiet, serious manner­·ht• talked about the Southern Cal game, and about its bearing on the rest of the ND season. 
"If people think we were mean h£'fore," he said, "if they think we were vicious before, then they haven't seen anything yet. We're going to make everyone left on the schedule pay for what hap­pmed Saturday. We just wish we could get another chance at Southern Cal--but we know we can't, so we're going to take it out on everybody we play. 
"We would have beaten th<:m nine out of 10 times," he said, nwasuring his words. "There's no way that they're a better team than we are... and there's no way that we should have lost the game. I just wish we -could play thl'm again." Then, almost as an af.tt•rthought, he addf<I, "and I w1sh we could play them with .John Vella over me for the whole game." 
It was Vella whose late hit-
after an Irish fumble recovery-started the free-for-all which marred the second period of Saturday's game, and it was Marx who attempted to pull Vella from the pile of players. 
Even as a sophomore, Greg Marx attracted the attention of defensive line coach Joe Yonto. In fact; he was so noticeable that year <1969), that he earned a Hering Award for his play during spring practice, and was slated to start along side of Mike McCoy once the regular season got underway. 
But then, only two weeks before the season opener with Nor­thwestern... Marx fractured his right arm and was sidelined for the year. 
"I broke my right forearm," he said, "while I was tackling a sophomore fullback named John Cieskowski. Now, I was supposed to start that year, but I hadn't bt•enoutformorethantwoweeks when a second-string offensive tackle named Mike Kadish moved right in and took over." But though he was out for the duration of the '69 season, Marx was granted an additional year of <'ligibility, and so is technically a junior now. 
"Sure, I'm going to take the 
~tra year," he said::..:.·_"..::.I..::.fl::<:.gc=u::..re=-=-I'.::ll'-:-d_h_a_m_:_,!:.pe.:..o2p_Ie_s.:..a.:..id:......:.I_w;;.:;.as:......:.d:.:e.::..se:..:r.:..-_d_e.:._l.:..ay::.._h_i_s~p.:..ro~g~r.:.:a.:..m--=o-n_e--=.se.:..a::.:s:.::.on; 
Please Help 
Isn't there anyone in the following halls who could give Mardi Gras '72 7-8 hours of their time 
over the next 3 months ? Pangborn, Fisher, Alumni, Howard, Walsh, & Stanford 
Do not have hall reps for the Mardi Gras Raffle. call Greg 6967 
have more roads open to me if I 
do it this way. There's always the 
possibility of pro ball, and maybe 
next year I'll have a chance to 
distinguish myself among the All­
Americans. But I'll also come 
back because I like it here and 
because I want to help the team." 
But while Marx will be around 
for the 1972 season, it is the 
current campaign that is holding 
all of his attention. The Irish 
record stands at 5-l after 
Saturday's game, and the next 
club to test Notre Dame will be 
the surprising Midshipmen from 
the Naval Academy. 
"We <the defense) were more 
or less stunned after the Southern 
Cal game," said Marx, "but 
that's over and done with now. 
What we've got to do is pick up 
the pieces and start over again. 
"Navy will come in here this 
week," he went on, "and they'll 
probably go for the bomb, just 
like Southern Cal did. And you 
never can tell, they might be as 
lucky as Southern Cal was. They 
have a fair running game, but 
they do have a pretty good pass 
offense--and it was a pass offense 
that beat Notre Dame last week. 
But really, I don't see any way in 

DiggerS 
by Neil Amdur 
<c> New York Times
1!171 
South Bend, Ind.-On Oct. 30, 1965, the new head basketball coach at St. Gabriel's High School in Hazleton, Pa., mailed a personal, hand-printed letter to Ara Parseghian, the Notre Dame football coach. 
"Knowing that you have little time to waste," the letter began. "I don't expect you to answer my l£'tter within the near future, but I would appreciate a short reply after the season, if your busy schedule permits. 
"Eventually," the note con­tinued, "I'd like to coach on the college level. My big dream is to coach basketball at Notre Dame. I love the essence that makes Notre Dame what it is... Someday, I hope that I might bl:' a part of that program." The letter was signed "Dick Phelps." Six years later, "Someday" has hccome now for the 30-year old former coach at Fordham, who has succeeded Johnny Dee at Notre Dame. 

"It's been a dream for me," Phdps said, standing outside the basketball offices that he and his assistants call "Sesame Street," because of its youthful inhabitants. "When I left For-hell that Navy's going to beat 
us." ~ 

Marx and the rest of the Irish 
players have spent the week in 
preparation for the clash with 
Navy, and they have been 
practicing under the added 
wt•ight of criticism from many 
disenchanted fans. And like the 
rest of his teammates, Marx does 
not care for the fair-weather 
eomments that the team has been 
receiving. 

"We lost a game," he said, "so <'veryone has been saying that we have no chance for the National Title, or no chance for a bowl bid. I don't think they've got any right to say this. We can come back; and--being Notre Dame--we will 
come back. We've come back before, and there's no reason why we can't do it again. There's nothing standing in front of us that says we can't come back. We're not out of it. Only losers are ever out of it, and we aren't losers. 
''Personally," he continued, "I'd like to close the season with four shutouts, and then fplay Nebraska--or whoever the number one team is-in the Orange Bowl. This is what I'd like beat Navy, the Notre Dame of­fense will have to show more life than it has in recent games, and
Someday ls now 
the key to the offense is QB Cliff 
ling the ship, skipping out. But that letter tells the whole story." 
Roger Valdiserri, the Sports Information Director at Notre Dame, found Phelp's letter after "Digger," as he is called by everyone except his players, joked about writing Parseghian. 
"I didn't believe him at first," Valdiserri said. "But when I dug back into Ara 's files, even the envelope was still attached to the letter." · 
The move west has allowed Phelps more time with his family. He spends lunch hours manicuring the lawn ("I'm almost No. 1 in the neighborhood now") and has begun putting his 
distinct touch into the 
basketball program. 
Leprechauns have been painted on the basketball court. . Snappy blue-and-gold leather sneakers will replace the traditional whites, and Digger is trying to convice Edward <Moose) Krause, the Athletic Director ,that pre-game music piped into the locker room, a hit at Fordham can help here. 
"We've got the gimmicks," Phelps said. "Now all we've got to do is win a few games." 
Differ may have problems this year. A tough schedule and the graduation of Austin Carr may 
n 
I 
.J 




'\ I7Sr-t 
~~~ 

i· '-... ~ 

Brown. until Pete Crotty, the 6-foot-8-inch ·"Brown's just a sophomore," star from Rockville Centre, N.Y., said Marx, "and you've got to and Gary Brokaw, a 6-3 guard give him time. He's only been from New Brunswick, N.J., both starting for three games, 'lnd it freshmen, move up. took Theismann a while to get 
After a delicate decision over going in his first year, too. Just whether to attend Fordham or give him <Brown) some time. follow Phelps, Crotty, with his He'll come around." family's final blessings, is at Brown will come around-­
Notre Dame. "We're gearing our program possibly in time for a bid to for the future," Phelps said, Miami. But whenever the Irish pulling out a schedule he has offense--and its soph QB--comes booked for the 1973-74 season that of age, there is no question that includes games on successive Greg Marx and the ND defense 
will be there to welcome it.
Saturdays with U.C.L.A., -------------. Marquette, Davidson, South Carolina, West and Villanova. 1 
Greg Marx leads the charge of the Irish front four to do, and I'm sure that it's what But before the Irish can count the rest of the team wants, too." on anything, there is Navy. To
' • 


Need help in literature? Ask the experts who prepare Cliff's Notes. Our authors are scholars who have taught the works they write about. They know how to explain them to you in clear, concise form. Increase your understanding. Get Cliff's Notes and get with the experts. 
wherever books are sold. Only $1each 




-
Stop in Friday afternoon and Talk Ski with Yamaha PRO, Chris Petritz 
1-10 r­
11·15 11-28 21·25 
%6-30 31·35 
36-441 41--45 46-50 
;51 .10 .70 .85 1.00 1.20 1.35 1.55 1.75 
.75 1.00 1.15 1.35 
1.60 
1.90 2.10 2.30 2.50 
1.08 1.35 1.70 2.08 2.35 2.80 3.10 3.30 3.50 

1.15  1.25  
1.75  2.15  
2.48  2.80  
2.96  3.45  
3.40  4.11  
3.85  4.70  
4.25  5.18  
4.50  5.58  
4.75  6.00  

Yamaha Pro Special 
Total List $198 
Yamaha All Around III Marker Simplex DL Toe Marker Rotomat Heel Alloy Aluminum Pole 

Special $155 
Blizzard S pee ia I 
Total List  $115  
Blizzard  Fan  2000  
Solomon  404 Toe  

Northland Thunder Heel Stainless Steel Pole 
Special $69.95 




