
Cloudy and mild today with a chance of showers tonight. II will be the same tomorrow, with a slightly increased chance of showers. 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VL No. 37 Monday, November 1, 1971 
Fulbright announces opposition to $400-million foreig:p. aid bill 
Washington, Oct. 31--Sen J.W. Fulbright, chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, prdicted today that Congress would approve an interim solution to keep foreign aid alive, but he indicated opposition to the formula being devised by the Nixon administration. 
The Arkansas democrat, one of the leaders in the Senate's defeat of the administration's Foreign Aid Bill Friday night, pledged'his personal backing for what he called "the least controversial" aspects of foreign aid, such as refugee relief and military aid to Israel. 
But, affirming his well-known opposition to other American military assistance programs, Fulbright said he thought administration efforts to retain miliary aid to Cambodia, Vietnam and Laos -as well as to Greece --would again be defeated by the Senate, or at least produce a lengthy fight. 
Administration sources said today that they hoped to push through a continuing resolution to extend economic and military programs for 90 days when the present continuing resolution expires on Nov. 15. 
This would continue aid at the rate of last years expenditures --$2.64 billion a year. 
In addition, officials plan to ask for a sup­plemental appropriation of some $400 million --$250 million for Pakistani refugee relief and $150 million for Vietnam economic programs. 
Scott, Javits support bill 
Approval of this package would carry the aid program into 1972 by which time the administration would have a new coordinated program to offer the Congress, aides said. 
Sen. llugh Scott of Pennsylvania, the Senate Republican leader, and Sen. Jacob K. Javits, R­N.Y., have already indicated their desire to carry the administration's fight for a continuation bill. 
But Fulbright, reflecting the views of the liberals who opposed the Aid Bill, largely because of anger over the administration's support for the Anti-Communist regimes in Cambodia, Laos and South Vietnam, indicated he would not support such and administration package. 
Fulbright said that when his Foreign Relations Committee meets tomorrow morning the members 

will discuss the situation and see what can be done. 
"I would say --without having talked to them at all -· that some kind of interim program will probably be devised. There are various ways of approaching it.We do not like ·-I do not like --the continuing resolution approach," he said. 
"I am thinking generally along the lines of an interim program which would take care of those parts of the program which are the least con­troversial. There are such things. The Children's Program is universally applauded, the Palestinian refugees, the Pakistan refugees. No one is opposed to them. A number of things of this character can be put together," he said. 
present military aid opposed 
Fulbright said "The really controversial things are the use of this program for part of the military domination of other countries." 
Critics of the Administration's Bill cite the fact that some 55 per cent of the $3 billion request was for military aid. 
Asked if he would support a filibuster on the Senate floor if the administration introduced its continuing resolution, Fulbright said that this depended on whether the administration sought to keep things as they are now with military aid in­cluded. If it did, then he predicted "great op­position." 
Israel, he noted, was "a special case," and should be supported. 
In general, Fulbright expounded his own critical thinking about the way American Foreign Policy has developed in the postwar years, particularly his view that the defeat of the Foreign Aid Bill was something of a turning point in the country. 
He said the vote was "the beginning of a new era­a change in our basic foreign policy." 
Foreign aid, he said, started out as a worthy endeavor, but "turned into a tool of the cold war." He said it was a form of "welfare imperialism" by which the United States exerted influence on many counries. 
"I think this is the beginning of a re-evaluation of of our foreign policy. This is one aspect of it, an important aspect of it. I think we have followed the idea that we could dominate other countries and make them be subservient to our will," hesaid. 


Fulbright: not isolationism 
Fulbright rejected suggestions that the vote was 
indicative of the rise of nco-isolationism in the 
country --a withdrawing from foreign com­
mitments. 
"The idea of nco-isolationism is absolutely a 
misuse of language," he said. 
Citing his support for the passage in the Senate 
recently of a $2 billion appropriation for in­
ternational organizations--as as distinct from 
bilateral aid which he largely opposes, he said: 
"The true internationalist is the one who wants to 
internationalize these things, who supports things 
like the United Nations or the International Bank." 
Bilateral aid, Fulbright said, was "a vehicle for 
imperialism, not internationalism." 
He said that the Aid Bill's Military Sections were 
used "for the influencing and perpetuation of 
existing regimes." 
"This has been part of the policy of preservation 
of the status quo, the prevention of any change in so 
many countres that need change. And this has -­
this has generally, I think, eroded the basis of the 
whole program," he said. 
Like Sen. George Aiken, R-Vt., Fulbri'ght at­
tributed the Foreign Aid Bill's defeat partly to 
"over-lobbying" by the administration in an effort 
to defeat amendments limiting aid to Cambodia. 
In another development, George Bush, the United 
States Ambassador to the United Nations, ap­
pearing on the American Broadcasting Company 
Proj!ram, "Face The Nation," said he admitted 
there has been much discontent with the Foreign 
Aid Program, "But I think in the final analysis 
when calm and consideration take over, that there 
will be a program because people recognize there 
are some fundamental things being done there that 
affect the self-interest of everybody in our coun­
try." 
Barlow: letter a 'repressive fiat' 

Barlow, Under~nan protest Hesburgh letter 
by Ann McCarry 
A letter released by University President Rev. Theodore Hesburgh last Thursday has induced strong responses from two top St. Mary's Student Go­vernment officials, the Observer learned last night. 
St. Mary's Student Body President Kathy Barlow and Student Body Vice­President Missy Underman both ex­pressed unequivical disapproval of the letter, which said that the Board of Trustees had decided to determine Notre Dame parietal hours themselves. 
Miss Barlow called the ruling a "fiat" in a full-page statement she released to the Observer. 
"First of all," Miss Barlow said, "Father Hesburgh's letter makes a comparison of the academic situation with student life. That seems to me to be a poor analogy. The question I would ask is 'are we here to be tested and graded on our 
lifestyles.' 

"Also, he is talking about moving towards a better Notre Dame. It appears to me that his top priority is the institution and r.ot the people who are here. 
"In the letter. Fr. Hesburgh says, 'student life is a responsibility that the Trustees can never surrender.' It appears to me that what they're saying is that they will not 'allow' individuals here to determine their own lifestyles. 
"I would be extremely disappointed if the students here accept this repressive fiat because the Trustees are not merely addressing themselves to the issue of parietal hours, but more importantly to the issue of self-determination." 
Miss Barlow continued. "If the goal of this school is to develop mature in­dividuals then the school must realize that they only become so having to make responsible decisions for themselves.'' 
Miss Underman voiced a similar opinion in reaction to the letter and the Board of Trustees' decision. 
"I read the letter with much interest. Naturally I was disappointed by the whole parietal issue not passing because I felt the Student Life Council had devoted enough time to the issue and that a lot of thought had gone into the proposals. 
"I was bothered," continued Missy, "by the tone of the letter, especially by the assumption of Father Hesburgh and the Board that leaving the determination of parietals up to each hall would ultimately result in open dormitories. 
"I don't agree with Father Hesburgh's theory that the proposal would mean open dorms. Each hall knows its own limitations best and can determine its own hours best. The students are mature enQugh to decide if they need limitations.'' 
Jean Seymour, Student Affairs Com­missioner, had this to say: "I think Father Hesburgh and the Board of Trustees are very sincere in what they say and I think they truly respect our student representatives to the Board, namely, John Barkett, Orlando Rodriguez, and Bob Weaver, as evidenced by their acceptance of the other recommendations of the SLC. 
"However," she went on, "it still goes back to the same argument of where the power lies. And, in this case, since they feel ultimate responsibility in regards to parietals, they don't feel that they can accept the responsibility of relinquishing this power to students." 

------------------------------~--------­
Communist Chinese flag to he raised at UN 
(C) 1971 New York Times 
United Nations, N.Y., Oct. 31 -­
Communist China today cleared 
the way for the raising of its flag 
Monday at the United Nations. 
Peking sent a cablegram to Secretary General Thant ad­vising him that it wants to be listed as "China, People's Republic Of." Thus, the red flag with five gold stars will be hoisted by U.N. guards shortly after 9 a.m. together with all the other 131 flags of the member countries. There will be no special ceremony. 
The Chinese Communist flag, like the Nationalist flag before Taiwan's expulsion, will fly bet­ween those of Chile and Colombia. The flags are arranged in English alphabetical order in the United Nations Plaza. 
Diplomats with close ties to the mainland government said today they expected its delegates to arrive Thursday or Friday. But today's communication from Foreign Minister Chi Peng­Fei to Thant gave no arrival date 

and no indication on the com­position of the delegation. 
Chiao Kuan-Hua, one of about six vice foreign ministers and a close confidant of Premier Chou En-Lai, is thought by irformed diplomats here to be the most lfkely head of the delegation. 
The diplomats, who specialize in Chinese affairs, said that Chiao has long been responsible for European affairs in the ministry and is regarded as perhaps the highest-ranking 



Bill Rahner 
by Gene Slason 

Despite what Publicity Chairman Jerry Nagle termed a "disappointing turnout of new people" at yesterday's meeting of the consumer research group, lnPRIG, organization leaders are "confident" of the six-week old group's future. 
The meeting, designed to in­troduce new InPRIG members to the organization and to demonstrate techniques suc­cessful at Indiana University at South Bend, drew less than twenty people, none of them new members, according to Nagle. 
Campus INPRIG director Bill Rahner said that originally the meeting was supposed to be a conference between statewide coordinator Dave Hersch and local InPRIG representatives. On Wednesday, however, ND lnPRIG decided to throw the meeting open to the public and official in foreign affairs, after Chi. 
Communist diplomats with close ties with Peking were un­derstood today to have sought further assurances from Thant that all the specialized agencies related to the U.N. would follow the General Assembly's lead in admitting Peking and expelling the Nationalists. 
But informed sources said that there was no suggestion that Peking might delay the dispatch of its delegation until all the agencies had acted. Unesco, the 
U.N. 
Educational Social and Cultural Organization, acted on the assembly's recommendation Friday. 

U.N. 
officials close to Thant today said that the Secretary General !;lad dpne all he could do, namely to inform the heads of all the agencies of the assembly's decision. The officials said that they expected all the agencies to act swiftly in the same sense as Unesco, exce~t for World Bank 



SCHEDULE OF MASSES IN RESIDENCE HALLS 
d 

an the International Monetary'--;================================::::=======~
Fund where the Nixon Ad­
ministration might be able to 
block the expulsion of Nationalist 
China. 
Voting in the World Bank is 
weightedon the basis of a country's financial contibutions. The U.S. therefore controls just over 24 per cent of the vote. 
George Bush, the U.S. Delegate to the U.N., hinted on a television program today that the ad­ministration might make use of its voting strength in the World Bank and the Monetary Fund to keep the Nationalists in. 

HALL ALUMNI BADIN BREEN-PHILLIPS CARROLL CAVANAUGH DILLON FARLEY FISHER FLANNER 
GRACE HOLY CROSS HOWARD STANFORD·KEENAN LYONS MORRISSEY PANGBORN ST. EDWARD 
SORIN. WALSH ZAHM 
DAILY MASS none scheduled 
12:00 midnight 
10:30 p.m. 5:00p.m. 5:15p.m., 10:45 p.m. (M-Thur) 
Saturday, 11:00 a.m. 8:00a.m., 5:00p.m., 11:00 p.m. Saturday, 8:00a.m. 5:00p.m. (M-Sat) 11:30 a.m., 5:15p.m. 11 :?O p.m. (M-Thurs) 5:00p.m. Upon group request 
11:00 p.m. 
5:10p.m., 11:00p.m. (M·Th) Saturday, 11:30 a.m. 
11:00 
p.m. 

11:00 
p.m. · 10:30 p.m. 

11:00 
p.m. 5:15p.m. 


11:30 a.m. 5:15p.m. 
invite Hersch to .speak. 
As a result of the meeting and of an earlier decision to decen­tralize the organization; Rahner announced that all publicity will be handled on a hallwide basis. According to Nagle, sixteen of the twenty-two on-campus halls have permanent representation. 
InPRIG has planned a meeting for those representatives today at 
6:30 in the Cabinet offices. 


Meeting of InPIRG draws less than twenty 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE 
TEL: (312) 944-7500 • ZIP: 60611 Please add sales tax where applicable 


Indiana Bell 
SUNDAY MASS Saturday midnight, 11:00 p.m. 
10:30 p.m. Saturday midnight, 10:30 p.m. 
10:00 a.m. 

11:00 
a.m. 

11:00 
a.m. 

11:00 
a.m. 


11:00 
a.m. Saturday midnight Saturday midnight, 11:00 a.m. 


11:15 a.m. Saturday midnght Saturday midnight, 11:00 a.m. 
5:00p.m. Saturday midnight, 11:30 a.m. Saturday midnight 11:00 p.m. Saturday midnight, 8:00p.m. 11:00p.m. 
10:30 a.m. Saturday midnight, 11:00 a.m. 
• 

Saturday midnight 

...and saves you money. 
Your Student Billing Card is yours at no cost at the Indiana Bell Business Office. So, if you live in a dorm you can make long distance ·calls from your room simply by telling the 
operator your card number. 
Calling by Student Billing Card eliminates the 25-cent additional charge made on every station-to-station "collect" call within Indiana. 
If you're a dorm resident, get your card now! 
@ 

The Observer is published daily during the coll•·ge semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Migrant Laborers 

holdTexas meeting 
(Cl 1971 New York Times w£>tbacks from Mexico. 
Ml'rct>dt's, Tex., Oct. 31 -In No one suggested a workable mid-autumn, the air in the Rio plan of action. There were Grande Valley is as soft as in demands for "do something" spring, with odors of late ripening cries for "land reform," and a melons and early oranges and denunciation of the government. gra(>(•fruit. When some of the more 
This week, discouraged by the sophisticated delegates gave seemingly never-ending and little hints that a new labor union, 
Nov. 8
accomplishing governmental perhaps one in opposition to the hearings into the plight of farm workers union headed by migrant laborers, about 150 farm {(~sar Chavez in California, workers from a dozen states held mtght be one answer, the rank their own hearings to plot ways to and file delegates either did not get more of that $500 million in understand the hints or were the Texas Rio Grande Valley and waiting for the idea to be forced the billions of dollars generated on on them. farm lands throughout the The meeting had no formal country. structure, no chairman and no 
The effort appeared to be a agenda. failure. The idea for such a meeting Nov. 8-9 No innovative ideas were had been suggested last spring by 
Nov. 9
advanced. Those who testified Raymundo Perez, whose brother repeated the litany of familiar was killed some months ago after complaints: low wages, 'sub-a migrant labor demonstration in standard housing, broken Texas. After drumming up in­promises by employers, no terest in an approach which unemployment insurance, child would have migrant laborers labor, no health facilities, refusal conduct their own hearings and of schools to accept migrant formulate their own answers, 
Nov. 9-10
children, competition from Perez did not attend the meeting. 
Nov. 10
Despite publicity&pie dg e s 
Nov. 10-11

few volunteers show up 
by 1\lichal'l Uaum displeased," Hamilton stated, 
Nov. 11
A negligible turn-out of "All the student government voluntPer help has upset the hopes pl:'ople didn't show up, and only of the Student's World Concern John Barkett showed up to say he for th<' Pakistan Relief Fund eouldn't com<>."Hamilton added Coll£>ction in South Bend on that Barkett had contributed a llallowt•en night. Despite eheck for' $25.00 drawn from pll'dg{'s of h<>lp from several government funds. sou ret'S including th<' Dome staff, Agricvcdly, Hamilton offered the Washington-Maryland -the "interesting statistics" that, Virginia Club. Student Govern-"out of twl,'nty people called there nwnt. and the 1\h•rry Pranksters, wet·e 19_papers, 17 tests, 8 claims 
Nov. 12 
as of l'ight p.m. Sunday night only of 'This week is shot and 2'My :!II \'Oluntt>ers showl'd up. parents are up'." 
The Fund Collection has been Student's World Concern has adVl'rl ised by radio and TV, with planned an additional on-campus an Obsl'rVl'r Pditorialand article, collcclion for Tuesday, with and with posters in "every Volunt<•ers going door to door. Sl'l'tion of Pvery hall in the two H<lmilton said he hoped that the t'arnpusl:'s." according to l'l'Sponsc would be somewhat t'XI:'cutivl' director Tom bdtt>r. Hamilton. "I'm really 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Sign up this week for job interviews for the week of November 8 through 12. Interviews are open to NO and SMC seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 
207, Main Bldg. Select your own time and sign your name. Room 207 will be open at 8:00a.m. until 5:00p.m. each day, except Friday. Consult the Placement Manual for additional information regarding Interviews and procedure. 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF NOVEMBER 8 · 12 
S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc. BS in Ch.E. and M.E. Kerber, Eck & Braeckel. BBA in Acct. Lilly Industrial ( ,atings. BS, MS in Ch.E. and Chern. Republic Steel Corp.BS in Met., M.E., E.E. and C. E. BBA in Acct. Pfizer Inc. BS, MS in Ch.E. Procter & Gamble Co. BS, MS degrees in all Engr., Mgmt., Science, Computer Sceince, Math, & 
Master's degree in Bus. or Industrial Admin. with a tech. undergrad degree. 
Scott Paper Co. BBA and AB for Sales. 
Texaco Inc. BS, MS in Ch.E. and M.E. BS in E. E., C.E. and Geology. 
Hurdman and Cranstoun, Penney & Co. BBA in Acct. 
Penn Controls, Inc. BS in M.E., E.E. and M.E.I.O. 
Procter & Gamble Co. BS, MS in Ch.E., M.E., E.E. and C. E. for Plant Management. BBA, MA, BBA 
or MBA for Sales Management. University of Pittsburgh . Graduate School of Business. All degrees. One course in calculus is a must. 
N.A.S.A. -Lewis Research Center. All degree levels in Met. and M.E. AS, MS in E.E. and A. E. Union Carbide Coq . -Linde Division. BS, MS in Ch.E., Engr. Sci., M.E. and San. Engr. Atlas Chemical Industries, Inc. Cancelled. TheMagnavoxCompany. BBAinAcct. MBA. Haskins & Sells. BBA in Acct. MBA. Ingersoll-Rand Co. Cancelled. Leeds & Northrup Co. BS in E.E. and M.E. Mobil Oil Corp. BS in C. E., M.E. and M.E.I.O. Olin Corp. BS, MS in Ch.E., Met., M.E. and Chern. Scientific Design Company, Inc. All degree levels in Ch.E. S1auffer Chemical Co. BS in Ch.E. Northwes1ern Mutual Life. All degrees and Oepts. for Sales and Sales Management. Northern Third 
of Indiana. Carl A. Morse, Inc. of Illinois. BS in C. E. B. of Arch. Penn Mu1ual Life Insurance Co. All degrees and majors. Rheem Manufacturing Co. .BBA in Mkt. and Mgt. University of Chicago -Graduate School of Business. BA, BS, BBA. MA, MS, BFO, Ph.D. All majors welcome. University of Michigan. Any bachelor's degree. 
.J 
' 



STUDENT SERVICES 
Needs people to run the following special projects: 
1) Rider Service ,I 
2) Recreational for off­campus Students during lunch hours 
3) Distribution of free coffee d~ily in the Rathskeller 
To Volunteers: Call 7757 and ask for Jim Sebastian from 3:30-5M -F this week, or come to the 4th Floor LaFortune Office. 
Page 4 THE OBSERVER 
World Briefs 
lcl 19il New York Times 
United Nations, N.Y. -Mainland China, by advising the United Nations that she prefers to be listed as "China, People's Republic of," cleared the way for the raising of her flag today along with the flags of the 131 other united nations members. The flags are arranged in alphabetical order. China's preference was stated in a brief cablegram that did not mention when Chinese delegates would arrive. 
Saigon -The inauguration of President Nguyen_ Van Thieu com­pleted, Saigon's streets returned to normal and the first of nearly 3,000 Vietcong prisoners to be released under a recently announced am­nesty left various prison camps. Local and foreign dignitaries at­tended a post-inaugural dinner given by Thieu and his new vice president, Than Van Huong. 
Cairo-Bishop Shenuda, a former Egyptian army officer in charge of religious education for the Coptic Orthodox Church, was chosen as the 117th successor to St. Mark as Patriarch of the church and Pope of Alexandria. Bishop Shenuda's name was drawn by a blindfolded Egyptian boy from among three names in a silver box. The choice is said to represent the "will of God." Most members of the church live in Egypt and Ethiopa. 

I I
U2 

4:15 --lecture, frederick
::s dow, the chasm in economic development ­
D. can it be bridged?, 127 .... 
nieuwland 0
8 

7:00 --flick, kailash at fl.
c ellura and cave temples gof india, room 148 madaleva 
u -< 
c 7:00 and 9:00 --flick , le depart, engineering
0 

auditorium 
I
I 

MANASA goal to meet and help people 

by Andy Winiarczyk Jr. Observer Insight "To proviae an opportunity for -meeting people and for helping people." -Goal of MANASA 
The Mental Health Association 

at Notre Dame is called 
MANASA. It supplies volunteers 
for the Hot line (not the one you 
get girls on -that's been 
discontinued), the Halfway 
House, Beatty Hospital, the 
Psychiatric Ward of St. Joseph's 
Hospital, the Psychiatric Ward of 
St. Joseph's Hospital, and Nor­
thern Indiana Children's 
Hospital. 
By far the organization in which most students are involved is Northern Indiana Children's Hospital. Located near the Notre Dame campus, this hospital is an inpatient hospital for retarded children. Student volunteers may choose to be involved in any number of programs. There is an activities program where volunteers generally play with children. There are feeding programs where volunteers assist feeding the children at one of the meal times. There are also programs which do not directly involve contact with the patients. 
Notre Dame students have 

been working at the hospital 
since 1961. That was the year 
when it became an institution for 
the retarded. At that time there 
were 120 volunteers who went to 
play with the children. There 
are presently 84 ND-SMC men 
and women in the program now. 
Now there is a greater variety of 
tasks to· be performed. Each 
student has a definite schedule to 
adhere to. 
Gerald Mast, Director of 

Volunteer Services, has said of 
those under his charge, "They 
want to be involved and there are 
willing to do most anything." 
Dr. Thomas Whitman, an assistant professor of Psychology at the University of Notre Dame, presents an opportunity to work down at Northern Indiana to his class of psychology majors. Each of them works on a one-to-one basis with one of the children. Re feels that the experience will help them when they make psychology their career. 
Tom Ferry, a volunteer, said, "By being in the program we learn more about ourselves." 
Paul Condon, another volun­

teer, added, "I'm in it because I Trustees to provide funds for an enlarged student-run drug center. 
If the proposal passes, the functions of the Center will be information and education, emergency treatment, referral agency, · and psychological therapy. 
Anyone interested in becoming a volunteer or finding out more information about the organizations should contact the following people: 
Northern Indiana Children's 

like to help the kids." Hospital: Mary Ann Wilson, 4796 
The Psychiatric ward of St. or Bob Byrne at 1435. Joseph's Hospital is for disturbed St. Joseph's Hospital-adults and adolescents who are Psychiatric Ward : Mark Wilson, quite anxious to talk to student 3380. volunteers or play cards, pool, Hot Line: 282-2323, Rick etc. in the lounge attached to the Figliola at 3058. 
ward. Halfway House and Beatty
Hot Line is a crisis phone which Hospital: Mary Kay Bacevich at provides a helping hand to those 4033 or Mike Obuhanich, 1422. in need. Volunteers are trained to Drug Information Center: John deal with all sorts of problems -1 Kwicien, 3554; Tom Tollaksen,drugs, pregnancy, homelife-that· 3376; Bill Grimmer, 8992; Connie they will come in contact with Ormsby, 4391. over the phones.
Halfway House is for former r---------~-----::...._:=-=-----''----",__-= 

hospital patients who need time to adjust to the outside world after their recovery. They are 
given this time by living at halfway house for a while. Those in charge hope to have a couple of parties for the residents during the year and those who wish to visit regularly may do so. 
Those who go to Beatty Hospital, the state mental in­stitute, will go along with some high school volunteers, members of the Junior Mental Health, who will provide the transportation. This program is on every other Sunday afternoon. 
Another very important ser­vice is the Student Drug In­formation Center. In recent years 
TO BE THE FIRST IN SERVICE­
the misuse of drugs has become a serious problem on college campuses. Notre Dame has been 
WE PUT SERVICE FIRST! 
no exception. Some doctors would even go so far as to say that the drug crisis is now-a national epidemic. 
Student Drug Information 

Visit our Triull}ph Service Center Center is located on the first floor of the library. As presently constituted it aims mainly to 
For All Your Needs 
answer the questions of its clients concerning any area of drugs. 
(MG, Fiat, Austin, VW, Toyota, Datsun,
The counselling function of the center is a one-to-one situation in 
Volvo owners.... we can handle you , too!)
which the "counselling" takes the form of an exchange of ideas 
Call Craig Hileman, Service Manager at....
concerning the effects and ad­visability of drug use. It is not a formal counselling agency_ In­stead it is an informal arrangement where problems can be discussed without the necessity of tests, records, or appointments. 
Because of the increase in number of students using drugs and variety of drugs, including hard stuff like heroin, and eocaine, a proposal has been 

916 E. McKinley, Mishawaka Phone 255-4751
made to the Student Affairs Committee, of the Board of , 
~-~ 



THE OBSERVER Page 5 
Heshurgh talks on rules and hall life 

Tht· following interview with Fr. TMII: ThPy (the Trustees) made a list liPshurgh was conducted by Assistant of what they consider serious things and 
J<:ditor John Abowd. 
that's one of them. There's a list on page

Abowd: First of all, most everyone two or three of the things they thoughtwho's rPad this <Hesburgh's letter> has Sl'rious. Itseems to be that you take things had some confusion about exactly what like stealing and assault you know, being was approved, and what wasn't and what's sloppy drunk and tearing the walls down still in limbo. So I thought I'd ask you point thl'n•'s a whole list of these things there. by point about the SLC proposals and find You know, selling drugs. I think 90 per cent out the state of each one. Establishing of thP guys going to Notre Dame would university sanctions for larceny, assault, nPvcr never do any of those things. Oh, and the sale and distribution of drugs. they may be on the fringe of breaking this 
TMII: As the letter says, it calls the or that rule in a less serious way that gets sem<'ster probation improbable. I think taken care of in the hall, but,I think there the reason they had for this is that if there are relatively few people that do very was a serious case of some student serious things around here, that are stealing a lot of money from another seriously wrong. My own reaction is that it student, it would be improbable that a is too bad that that a few guys can make it student ('OUrt would just give them a an unhappy place for the many and really semester of probation. The thought being all this says is that just as there are a few that this is a serious thing and he would guys around here who don't make it disqualify himself from the kind of trust academically. There are relatively few that you nPed in community life in the hall guys who wouldn't make it socially. As far if one guy would you know beat up a guy or as livng up to minimal requirements for knife him. We've had guys beat up and social life in a close knit community like knifed in the year. If a guy were to do that this. that is a serious thing. So the word they put t\bowd: I sense in this letter a kind of a out was that was improbable kind of transition mood by the Trustees with sanction if they that actually a serious respect to things like hall drinking and thing happened that even a student court parietals. I don't know if I got the right would lake it a lot more seriously than just impression but I sense that. a semester probation which is nothing TMII: I don't know I think they've rPally just keep out of trouble for six pretty much stated what they said earlier months four months whatever. in the year in Mr. Stepan's letter. 
Abowd: The SLC recommended that Abowd: They weren't terribly adamant sanctions against drinking, parietal hours about it. Was it that we all got the wrong lw established by the halls. impression about university wide sanc­
TMII: They said that this had been end­tions the first time or have tghey actually runn(•d by the report and that they could W<'akcned some? gPt back to that Jeter, and they included it TMII: No, I think they're fairly con­
in the list of things they thought serious. sistent ... I'd have to use that word. I think t\ bowd: The "end-run" is a football one thing you'd have to say is that they metaphor. were all extremely well-impressed with 
the student leadership. TMII: Oh, yeah. 
Hesburgh:'Tired ' of

Abowd: I wasn't quite sure what you nwanl by that. 
TMII: What they said was that they a('tually didn't take it up. They said put it parietal question in th<' halls to settle what this ought to be 
t\bowd: Are you personally tired of

and what the adjudication ought to be. The 
arguing about student life rules.

IPttPr as I see it or their decision as I see it 
TMII: Yeah, I am tired ... I'd rather 

was that this all goes back to the university 
argue about building a community and

l'OUrt ... 
eoeducation, not argue but discuss. I feel I

Ahowd: ThP twelve man university 
supposl' like one of the student leaders who 

l'Ourt. 
\\TOll' to a fri<'nd of mine recently and said 

Tl\111: YPs, the all student court. Not 
that I'm sick and tired about hearing about 

I'Vl'rylhing, but all serious violations of 
parietals, I'd rather go out and play tennis. 

univPrsity rules. 
l won't say who did that but it was one of

,\howd: What's going to be the sources of 
our guys and had mt>t a frit>nd of his on the

1·asPs lril.'d by thP University court? 
J<:ast Coast and said this was a funny

Tl\111: Wdl. I assume being turned in for 
n•mark that I got from a friend of mine.

st•rious viola lions. 
I 'vp got to say that I've got £>nough con­

·.\lumd: By resident assistants? 
fidt'nl'l' in thP students on this campus and 

'I'M II: Anybody ... you can make a 
I think with a IPadt>rship like this and with 

l'ivilian arrest in society. If you see 
a prpvailing spirit here I think we're going

sonwbody stealing $100 from somPbody or 
to ket>p <'Volving wlwre wl"n• going who 

walking off with somebody's radio you 
knows as the letter says that far ahead. I

don 'l haw to wail for somebody else to see 
think they said for now this is where we

it. 
think WI' arp ll't's make it work and then

i\howd: Well, for instance, if another 
lt'l's sec what we do, as the years go on.

student witnesses a parietal violation then 
Abowd: Could we talk for a while about 

hi.' l'an turn it in. 
those spl.'cifics. Have the Trustees got any 

'1'1\111: If hi.' wants to. I'd doubt that he 
dollar and sense scope idea about the

would. 
student life, professional student life

Ahowd: You'rp more certain than I am. 
study.?

This is a kind of a different sort of question. What in your position do you 
'I'MII: No, what they thought was that

think thP most appropriate response of 
W<' ought to have enough resources to do it 

studPnts to this latest action would be? 
hPre, with our own people because we do have professional surveys. People whoHesburgh:Parietals a know about professional surveys, !.'specially we've got a social science research lab, good sociology and

'serious' violation 
Pconomics department and we've even got a good architecture department and that TMII: I'd think to show great respon­

W<' ought to try to get a better feel for 

sibility in the residence halls to create a 
understanding ourselves and they felt the 

rPally good human society. It seems to me 
suggpstion that John made anr.l the Student 

that peopiP get hung up on rules, but as a 
Life Council of doing a professional survey 

matlPr of fact, the great majority of Notre 
would be good. It also grew out of a 

I>amP students never run afoul of serious 
nwl'ling that we had with the faculty af­

university rules in this way. This is by far, 
fairs committee that this-would be a great

I think. when you talk about a serious 
projeet for faculty too because I think one 

violation of a serious university rule and 
of thp most exciting things that could 

tlwn• arP only seven of them and there 
happl•n around here is to get a more closer 

ust>d to lw about twenty pages or so and we 
nwlling as the IPttcr mentions in the first 

l'UI lhl'm down to seven ... seven actual 
part but it's got a long way to go between 

rull's. I think serious violations of 
lifl' in lht> hall and a('ademic life, in other 

university rules are a reasonably rare 
words, hall fdlows is a great idea and in 

occasion around here. I think it's im­
faet some halls have made greater

portant not to get hung up on something 
progrt>ss. I was over talking in Zahm last 

th;~t nl'vcr bothers 90 percent of the 
night and as part of an academic program

sludmts. 
and I noticed that they were going to bring

A howl!: Are you continuing to classify 
somP I acuity in in succeeding weeks and I 

paril'lal violations as serious violations? 
think that it's a great idea. I think that 
,
• 

we've got a fantastic faculty here of the questionnaire.. you get a bunch of fuzzy widest possible experience. Well, for answers. But I think we've got enough example, I was over at an engineering talent on this campus to get a group reception and I met a fellow who had just together to work on this and I assume we'll gotten back from six months in Russia and mobilize the most knowledgeable people in I think that would be very interesting to sit this field to do it. down and talk to him about what it was like to live in Russia. I think it would be great Abowd: About the changing the agenda for everybody. I wish we could get from financial crisis to committing money l.'verybody to learn a little more about to re-do the student center. I know that's a 
China, now that China is opening up. We've big ... got guys around here who are Chinese and who have been brought up in China like TMII: What gets the first priority Is it Bill Loo, the head of socioloogy depart-better to do something in the individual ment, (l met his family once over in residence halls or is it better to do Taipei l. But there, I think, we are living at something in the central place like 
a very exciiting point in history where a LaF'ortune or is it better to try to do lot of things are at watershed. I would hope something in both places? I think the~'ve that w<' could get a maximum input from got to get some priorities. It's obvwus faculty people who know about these water there are some halls in much worse shape sht>ds and I think that we will take the than others. Th<'y'll probably have to start whole thing the entrance into China . . . with where things are the worst and work wt>'ve got people around here who really up to where.. I mean some halls have · know what the issues are and what they fairly good lounges and some h~lls ha~e are likely to lead to and it would be a great practically nothing. ~ee, I w~s m Bad1~ thing if a hall could sav that Thursday and we had the corndors penod. I don t know what you got today but that's all weHesburgh to other had. Th<' lounge was redesigned but it's much too small. Of course you've got

administrators:'Everone 

eertain physicaly inabilities in the halls ... and that's got to bP looked at, but
of you ought to be 

again soml' imagination could do a Jot of things. I think thP Trusteestees felt that
willing to meet guys in 

just as they had spent 750,000 dollars two 
the halls' years ago to try to jazz up the halls and make soml' apartments and put down soml.' capels and try to soundproof some areas they felt that had been a real im­
night we're going to have. Dr. Kurtish over prov<'mPnt and if it's possible to make to talk say that Thursday we're going to somt• more improvements at this time this have Dr. Kurtish over to talk about the would bP a very important item and they iniPrnational implications of this. He's Wl'r<' very much impressed by the student spent his wholP life in diplomacy and has prPsentation and they thought we ought to dPgrees from the best universities and has do our best to do something about it and kept up and published books and ... he's a have that as part of this total study. very important source of information ..... rPsource information that the halls could draw on . I've told all of the ad­Hesburgh:a need to ministrators, everyone of you ought to be willing to meet guys in the halls ... I'll do 
,it myself when I get a night loose and I've bPen to three or four halls this year. 


order priorities 
Abowd: Who specifically did the Trustees charge with the hiring of people to do this? 

Tl\111: Well, they asked the administration t\bowd: Is there some kind of range of to work with the students and the faculty to money involved here? put it on. I assume it will be a joint thing to 
be put on by Student Affairs and Faculty TM II: No they wanted to see what it was. Affairs. The last time we blew the better part of a Jpgacy, the Trustees practically spent all ,\howd: Do you have some idea on the time of thl' money on this purpose. We don't 
lag involved here? have x amount of dollars there, but what 
they want to do first of all what would be Tlll\1: I would hope that we would cer­llw ordPr of priorities, what would be the tainly gPt it done in the early spring. lypP of things that could be done, what 
would bl.' a general cost on it, and see if we ,\huwd: In tim<' for the· next Trustees eould gt>t at them and get them to start nwPting? doing it. ThPre were several amounts of 
mon<'y nwntioned and then somt>body said Tl\111: Well, that would be great if we Wl' don't really know let's see what the I'Ould. I don't seewhynot. I think we could. story is first and then let's talk about it. 'l'hpy're not the easiest thing in the world But thc•y said W<' are dertainly willing to 
to put together and if they're put togPther look at this sPriously. They were serious on badly.. you know you get a fuzzy that point. 



Irish Frosh drub MSU38-14 

by Mike Pavlin 

While MSU scatback Eric Allen was enjoying an NCAA record performance in Lafayette, the Spartan frosh were having much less fun back home in East Lansing. 
Led by the pitch-catch team of Tom Clements to Pete Demerle, the Mutt and Jeff running combo of Eric Penick and Chuck Kelly, and a ball-hungry defense, the Notre Dame freshmen crushed MSU 38-14 last Saturday on the latter's Tartan Turf. 
Rolling up 566 yards in 98 plays (the varsity record is 104)), the ND frosh throttled the Spartans on land and in the air, leaving the spectators wisliing they'd spent the morning watching the soccer match across the street. 
Perhaps even Eric Allen himself wouldn't have mattered as the fierce Irish defense held the Spartans to 180 yards total offense and two pass completions while recovering seven fumbles plus a pass interception. In fact, the only Spartan scores came after fumble recoveries deep in Irish territory. 
The Irish offense shook off some ball-handling jitters of its own and broke the contest open with two touchdowns by Penick in a three-minute span of the fourth quarter. 
The Clements-to-Demerle combination clicked for seven receptions, 176 yards and a touchdown while Penick and Kelly combined for 174 yards on the ground. Clements,whose physical measurements (6-0, 175 lbsl resemble Joe Theismann's, led the Irish offense on sustained drives of 74; 70, and 77 yards in the first half. He completed 9-21 passes on the day for an ex-





SMORGASBORD 
Every Monday 5-9 pm $1.25 All you can eat 
Every Wednesday evening . PITCHER 
zs••• $1.00 
NIGHT 

Every Friday night 

LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
Every Saturday night 

POLKA BAND·DANCING 
Open Weekdays 11 a.m. ­





LA~!~~ !A~c~DY th 
4ti1 0Western Ave. Belleville Shoppin1 Center 
Phone 289-7tJ83 
AUTUMN RETREAT 
~n experience in Christian sharing Sat. and Sun., Nov. 6 and 7, SM C Clubhouse Open to 32 ND-SM C Students Deadline: Tue. Nov. 2 
for info and reservations call Fr. Roger Cormier (5389) or Tom Stella (1168) 
ceptional 222 yards (24.8 yds per completion) capped by a 40­
varder to Demerle for a TD. ('lements also scrambled like a Theismann, with 62 yards in 14 carries. Demerle, a 6-1, 187 lb split end from New Canaan, Conn., averaged 25 yards per reception having the kind of day Irish fans associate with a Seymour or a Gatewooq. 
On the ground the Irish were equally impressive. There is another Di Narcfo on campus, offensive tackle Gerry, who goes 6-1, 230 lbs. He and his mates on the offensive line moved the Spartans about with relative ease, allowing Irish runners to pile up 338 yards on 74 carries. 
Someone had better check what kind of padding Penick is wearing because he looks a whole lot bigger than 6-1, 195lbs. He is tough to bring down, agile, and-­above all--fast. He showed his best form early in the fourth quarter, scoring on runs of 11 and 15 yards while seeming to drift by defenders without effort. He also appears able to take punishment, shaking off a leg injury just before his final TD run. 
Penick totalled 89 yards on 20 carries, but the diminuative Kelly was equally impressive. Standing only 5-9, Chuck bobbed and weaved for 85 yards on 17 carries. He showed great skill at hiding behind his larger blockers, darting in and out the way Mike Garrett used to do at Kansas City. For good measure, Kelly grabbed a Clements' pass good for 28 yards. Fullback Wayne Bullock added 51 yards on 11 earries. 
The Irish opened the scoring with a 12-play, 72-yard drive capped by a four-yard plunge by Hon Goodman at the 10:40 mark of the first quarter. AI Stripe then added the first of his five extra points. Then an Irish fumble gave the Spartans field position at the ND five. The Irish defense stif­fened and it was not until fourth down that Arnold Morgado plowed over from the one. 
Penick put the Irish back in front With a one-yard plunge. The T .D.came at the 7:20 mark of the second quarter after a 12-play, 70­ya•·d drive. But another Irish fumble proved costly. Given possession at the ND 32, Spartan qb Steve Moerdyk wasted no time in lofting a T.D. pass to Mike Jones. Clements and Demerle eame right back to give the Irish a 21-14 halftime advantage. At 
2: 17, Clements hit his split end with a 40-yarder. 
Stripe opened the second-half scoringwith a 27-yard field goal; then Penick added his two scoring jaunts. The ND Defense completely shut off the Spartans 

The sound all the record and stereo equipment companies say you should get. 
We felt Santana's "Samba Pate'' crying for it. Then we found the depth Emerson, Lake and Palmer's "Lonely Man" was searching for. It happened when we heard LWE speakers. 
Somebody had been talking about LWE speaker systems and how different they are. They're different because LWE uses a feedback system that makes your set-up deliver all the sound, especially the critical highs and lows. Clean. 
The LWE Clip-Kit hooks your amplifier to the speakers. And then you've got a whole system that won't let anything through but pure sounds. High trebles and low bass tones came out like they were played in the studio-sharp and clear. And that's all we want. 



through penalties and fumbles. I~ the air, MSU was a mere 2-16. 
Varsity coach Duffy Daugherty need not despair, however. Morgado, another of Duffy's Hawaiian recruits, carried 21 times for 80 yards. Spartan punter Jim l.rannell averaged a superb 46 yards on six punts. And Jones even tried his hand at qb, showing some dazzling moves while scrambling for his life from the ND front four, picking up 17 yards on four carries. 
But the day belonged to the Irish who played ball control offense at its finest. Having proved they can handle big Americans as well as small Mexicans, the Irish take on the Michigan Wolverines this Saturday morning at home. MSU topped the Wolverines 20-18 in a rainstorm earlier this season. 

Monday, November 1, 1971 THE OBSERVER. Page 7 



NDblanks stubbornNavy21-0 
Irish ground game, defettse too tough for Mids 

by .Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 

Notre Dame's "losing streak" 
·.. ~· didn't last long. The Fighting r • Irish bounced back from last weekend's 28-14 loss to Southern Cal and handed Navy a 21-0 setback Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium. 
The Irish offense came up with their second best performance of the season and the defense recorded their third shutout as Notre Dame overpowered the Middies. 
Notre Dame's ball control, grind-it-out style of attack produced three first half touch-, . downs and the Irish defense limited Navy to a mere 109 yards in total offense as the Irish picked up their sixth win in seven outings this fall. Navy has a 2-6 ,;/ ~~_)"·:·~ ..:;.,-~li!t1i:iri.'§.i mark. 
·, ·-~~···'~':" ~4 ~ . > ,t·
With halfbacks Bob Minnix, Larry Parker and Ed Gulyas, Larry Parker carried for 73 
making his first appearance 
yards against the Middies. 
since the Northwestern game, doing the brunt of the ball coming in the first half when earrying, the Irish rolled up 281 Notre Dame completely yards on the ground, 211 of them dominated the action. 
Gerald Eskenazi 
Spofc)~~ N2!rktJ!e~Ne!!r~ e s 
::::::::=:===========================================================:::Gordie Howe, V.P. 
New York, Oct. 31--Since Rocket Richard scored 50 goals in a season during World War II, people have been saying the National Hockey League is embarking on "a new era". The various eras can be marked by Boom Boom Geoffrion's slap shot, expansion, the two-goalie system, and the recognition that hockey players are subject to, of all things, emotional stress. 
During most of those significant milestones, there was one constant: Gordie Howe. Now the league is in another era-the one without the great Detroit Red Wing. Two events will happen today in New York to 
symbolize the new change. First, an upstart group called the World Hockey Association will announce its plans to challenge the N .H.L. next season. Then, at night, Howe will be deservedly honored by the Metropolitan New York Hockey Writers Association for long and distinguished service to the game. 
If the W.H.A. lasts as long as Howe did, it will have accomplished something. But the persistence of Howe's memory continues, and today it still overshadows the W.H.A. On a recent morning, Howe was in his office at 8:30 o'clock, and squeezed in some time to talk about his life of leisure following 25 seasons as a big-leaguer. 
They've made me a vice president of the Wings," said Howe. "I guess you need a title to draw a salary." 
Howe knew it would be over last season. "It wasn't so much that I was 43 and my arm hurt from arthritis and my legs were going," he explained. "I used to be testy the day of a game. But I could feel that I wasn't concentrating. I wasn't feeling as nasty." 
Now Howe is a fan, "a quiet fan," sometimes Howe wants to shout at the crowd: "Don't you know these guys are trying? How do you think you'd feel if fans were screaming at you?" but he doesn't 
"I suppose it's part of the game, but I can't get used to it," he ad­mitted. "I remember if I were on the ice and it was a dead house, it'd be reflected in your play. Hockey players can hear everything. The fans are so close to the action. I've been in games where the fans would take a whack at you. They'd hold your stick as you were coming off and swing." 
If there is a major change in retirement, it is his appreciation for what the players are doing. He tries to remember that these are people on the ice, even though some are slashing, some are butt-ending, some are punching. 
"If I tell a fan some guy's got a family, and they don't like the guy, they reply, 'He's married? He can't be.' They refuse to see that a guy can be a family man and still be dirty on the ice." 
When Howe realized it was all over for him, he spoke to the Wings' president, Bruce Norris. "Don't give me one title or position," he told Norris. "Let me touch the bases on all phases of the game." 
Howe now is a sort of superstar-as-troubleshooter. "I'm almost like Joe Fan," he said. "I get on the ice a lot and get rid of baby fat. I'll skate with some of the new poeple we've got--and we've got a lot of them. I'll watch our new minor league team in Tidewater, I'll do a little bit of scouting." 
Howe was hockey's unofficial greeter. His stick or his elbow would 
welcome upstarts to the big time. But he appreciates the new breed. "I 
think the kids are different today. They're more educated, more 
diversified. When I came up many of us didn't prepare for the future." 
And in the old days, teams faced each other 14 times a season 
<compared to six today>. There was more animosity among players. 
Howe used to avoid associating with Richard. 
Besides never reaching Richard's 50-goal total, the only other 
dream Howe never realized was skating with his sons in a big-league 
game. But he did appear with them once in a benefit game, and has the 
tape and loves to play it. 
"It seems like only yesterday that I started," he recalled. "I 
remember once playing golf with Gerry Pinder's father, and his dad 
said, 'Hey, I just had a boy.' Then I wound up playing against his son. 
I was around a long timP." 
The game's outcome was decided in the first 30 minutes, whPn Minnix ran for two touch­downs and Gulyas one, while the Irish defense limited the Middies to only three yards rushing, 24 yards passing and just two first downs. 
The Irish wasted no time in establishing their offensive and defensive superiority over the Middies. After stopping Navy on the opening series of downs, Notre Dame marched 78 yards in 15 plays for their first touchdown. 
The Irish went all the way on the ground, Gulyas cutting over right tackle from the one for the score. Parker carried five times for 27 yards and Andy Huff, three times for 22 yards, in the drive. 
Bob Thomas kicked the extra point to give Notre Dmae a 7..0 lead with 6:49 left to play in the first quarter. 
Notre Dame missed a scoring opportunity the second time they had possession when a fumble stopped them at the Navy 31 but the Irish put together another sustained drive midway through the second quarter to pick up their second touchdown. 
Staying exclusively on the ground, Notre Dame covered 64 yards in 11 plays. Cliff Brown, who ran for a pair of first downs, and Gulyas, who picked up 18 yards on an end sweep, turned in the big plays to get the Irish into scoring position and Minnix picked up his first six-pointer of the afternoon when he plunged over the goal line from a yard out. Thomas again converted to make it 14..0 with 6:14left in the half. 
lt didn't take long for the Irish to score again. Navy's George Berry returned the ensuing kickoff to the Middie 28 where he was hit hard and fumbled. Ralph Stcpaniak recovered for Notre Dame at the Navy 36. 
It took the Irish just seven running plays to score. Minnix recorded his second touchdown by darting into the end zone on a ten yard burst, breaking a couple of tackles enroute. 
Parker set up Minnix's score, carrying four times for 20 yards in the drive. 
Thomas' placement was perfect and the Irish led 21-o with 


2:35 re~aining. The second half was not so exciting. The Irish defense continued to keep Navy in check, although the Middies did threaten to score late in the game, but the NO offense was unable to put a.ny more points on the board against a stubborn Navy defense. The third quarter passed quickly as neither team did much offensively. Early in the final quarter, the Irish drove to the Middie 17, thanks largely to a 25 yard, Brown to Tom Gatewood 
pass, before losing the ball on a fumble. 
The Irish came close to scoring the next time they had possession, too, but this time a penalty crushed their touchdown hopes. 

After taking over at the Irish 29, Brown flipped a first down screen pass to John Cieszkowski and the big fullback rambled all the way to the Navy four, a 67 yard gain, before being tackled. The play was called back, however, because Notre Dame had an ineligible receiver downfield. 
Navy launched their only scoring threat shortly thereafter. The Middies got their hands on the ball at their own 39 with 7:50 remaining in the game and quickly moved down the field. 
Fullback Andy Pease got the drive started by picking up 21 yards on a draw on a second down and 18 play. Pease carried again for 12 yards to the Irish 36 on the next play and and Middie quarterback Fred Stuvek followed with a 16 yard pass to his ace wide receiver, Larry Van Loan. 
Then the Irish defense, which has not been sdored on in the second half all season, stiffened. Pease was able to gain just two yards, to the Notre Dame 18, on first down. Stuvek threw in­complete on second down but tossed a pass to Pease, good for four yards, on the next play. 
Faced with a fourth-and-five situation, Stuvek tried to hit Van Loan but the pass was incomplete and the Irish preserved their shutout. 
After the game, Irish coach Ara Parseghian remarked, "I thought we played a very good first half and a very ordinary second half. 
"We were sharp in the first half, had excellent blocking, and moved the ball very well," he continued. "We made mistakes in the second half that kept us from scoring. I was not satisfied with our offensive performance in the second half. 
"Our defense also had a very good first half," Ara added, "but they were a bit ragged in the second half." 
The Irish will take their 6-1 record to Pittsburgh nest weekend to battle the Panthers, 31-21 victors over Syracuse Saturday, while Navy travels to Atlanta to play Georgia Tech. 


Page 8 THE OBSERVER Monday, November 1, 1971 
~~----------------------------------~~~~~~~~-------------------------­

Jury farfromdecisionon Ells berg case 
(c) 1!171 New York Times provided the intellectual un­Nissen and Warren P. Reese, the derpinnings of the antiwar affable, California-based 
Boston, Oct. 31--Mter nearly movement. government attorneys on loan to three months of investigation, a That these were not garden the Internal Security Division of Federal Grand Jury looking into variety witnesses became ap­the Justice Deparment to run the the unauthorized distribution and parent late Friday when Hie investigation. publication of the Pentagon government seemed to have Just what the closed-door Papers appears to be far from driven one of them, Ralph L. inquiry is seeking is not fully completing its inquiry. Stavins of the Institute for Policy clear, but the oaths of office filed 
By most indications, the jury Studies in Washington, into a by the two young prosecutors has become entangled in a legal corner to force his indicate that they are exploring thicket of legal objections raised testimony. possible violations of federal laws by a group of doggedly But Stavins stode into court against the transmission, recalcitrant witnesses. with four lawyers and an af-retention and use of national 
By Friday evening the fidavit that stopped everything. defense information and con­proceeding had been forced to an The document was from Dr. spiracy to commit such offenses. indefinite standstill while the Leonard S. Rodberg, who is So far, it appears that the chief United States Court of Appeals himself a reluctant witness, told targets are Dr. Daniel Ellsberg, for the First Circuit decide if the how he and C.R. Wallace, an the former Pentagon official who jury's efforts were violating the electronics expert who owns the has said he gave the secret wat legislative immunity of Sen: Mike Spy Shop in Washington, had study to the press; Neil Sheehan, Gravel of Alaska. tested the phone at Stavins's who obtained the Pentagon 
To some, it seemed almost office with a "relative field Papers for the New York Times, superfluous to stop the inquiry, strength meter" and detected a and Sheehan's wife, Susan, who for during three days of complex sophisticated new type of tap on writes for the New Yorker 
Magazine. ·

egal wrangling last week the the line. jury of 23 mostly dour, middle-The judge stayed Stavin's Ellsberg has already been aged Bostonians heard hardly a appearance so that the govern­indicted by a grand jury for word of testimony, apart from ment could decide what to do. conversion in Los Angeles of that of one witness who gave little The law forbids the use of classified documents. So it is more than his name and oc-evidence gathered by unlawful widely assumed that the Boston cupation. wiretapping, and the government jury, along with a similar one in 
The jury has scattered a score may have to confirm or deny Los Angeles, is aimed at persons or so of subpoenas that have such eavesdropping. who helped Ellsberg distribute touched many of the scholars, It was the kind of delay that has the documents or who had access 
wri!~s am~ jo_l!!niilis!s ~ho~hc::a-'-v-=e--=b-=e.::.co.:cm:.:..:..:ec......::c.::u::.st:.:o;.:;m:::.a:::r:..L...:t::::o_D=..::a~v.:.:id::.__:R::.:...·---------------. 
What is life without love? 


FroiD one beer lover to another. 
THE STROH BREWERY (OMI'A~Y. OITROIT. MICHIGAN 4H2ZI. 
to them before they became public. 
All of this has caused deep unease and charges of a "fishing expedition" into the doings of the anti-war movement in the academic community, where many of the subpoenas have landed. Some of those who have been called are: Noam Chomsky, a linguist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and ·a leading New Left spokesman; Richard A. Falk, Princeton professor and frequent war critic; Stavins, co-author of "Washington Plans an Aggressive War;" Samuel L. Popkin, a Vietnam expert at Harvard who is a war opponent; David Halberstam, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist who is writing a history of American involvement in Vietnam; K. Dun Gifford, former legislative aide to Sen. Edward M. Kennedy and a friend of Ellsberg; and Rod­berg, who transmitted Gravel's copy of the war study to the Beacon Press in Boston for republication. 
Most have expressed puzzlement at being summoned and have raised elaborate and often novel constitutional ob­jections. 
Employing some of the most skilled civil rights lawyers in the country, they have invoked First Amendment freedoms, Fourth Amendment protection against illegal search and Fifth Amen­ment bars against self­incrimination. 
The process has settled into a kind of routine. At the appointed hour' each witness takes the elevator to the 11th floor of the Main Post Office Building, which houses the federal courts. 
There he generally refuses to testify or to answer any questions of substance. 
Thereupon, he goes one flight up to the wood-paneled cqur­troom of United States District Court Judge W. Arthur Garriety Jr., the genial white-haired jurist who is supervising the grand jury. The witness's lawyers argue that the subpoena should be quashed, stayed or restricted. 








CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICESFOR SALE 
.. -------------­

NEED MONEY? selection. 
Quality 8-frack tapes. Big 
Morrissey Loan Fund All only $3.50. 
Basement of La For•une Call 6715. 
11:15-12:15. 
---·------------­
ON SALE: 
Call Joanna at 287-2731 for Appt'sBrand new, guaranteed S-track 

and Info concerning Viviane

and cassette tapes. Fantastic Woodard Excl. Cosmetic Line,selections. All tapes . only $2.99. 
Endorsed by Harrer's Bazaar.
Call 1881 (Paull quickly. 
Available only through indiv. cosmeticians. 2 FREE MAKE UP1953 purple School Bus (in Stepan LESSONS.

Ctr. lot). $75 or best offer . 1508 . 
~rew Club. 

WANT TO MOVE ON CAMPUS? For Sale: Must Sell . Cheap . "'66 
Campus room available tor Ford Fairlane · Runs good. Call 
second semester. Greg . 8086. Mike 6729. Ski trip to Aspen, Col. at -Amber plastic room divider, 90" 
Thanksgiving. Open to everyone. X 26". Barber's chair, a swinger. 
Sign-ups Wed., Thurs., Oct. 27, 28, Cheap. Call weekday evenings. 
7-9 pm. Coke Bar in La Fortune. 
-·------------­
]82.15!4.:.. --------­
PITT WEEKEND NINE BUS

For Sale: 26 inch bicycle. 3 
SEATS STILL AVAILABLE.

speed. Exc. condition. $25. 234· One Football tickets available
6689. 
withthe purchase of a bus ticket. CALL 7757 BETWEEN 1-5 PM.

Durst RS-35 Enlarger. $25. Skies 
with bindings and case $40. 288­Sunday N.Y. Times on Sund~y.
~3.f.6..._ ____________ 

Pandora's Books For Sale: New Trays.and Folding 
N.D. & S. B. Aves. Tables · $6.00 a piece. 1942. 
--·----------­-· ------------­
Information on soft-voiced girl PERSONALS 
with baby crying. Call 1621. 

SMC GIRLS: Part time job tun, too Zapd. 
snoregalldork-type nonsense is available. Call Denny . 8670. 
·" -----------­-----·---------

Kookie, 

Fix-your OWN-CAR tonight. We Du gebst m ir (reason for 
have the space . tools . parts and being ).Wie immer . ich Iiebe dich. 
help. You do the work and $AVE. Dein Sunshine 
Autotech Rt. 31 South in Niles. 
-· ----·-----­

684-1960. Open evenings and search for your Head? 
weekends. lind it in deep contusion? Stop ... . 
LOST Sleep ... . awaken to cry the saving 
Lost, strayed or stolen, Girls' 24" bike, Schwinn "Deb·
fantasy line 
Nonsense! 

bie", chrome fenders, pink and walk, grin, content away 
white frame, last seen at Convo Tuesday night. Reward, Call Bill
Zapd 

at 8156. Deb, Here it is November 1 
Classified Ads paid for in cash
What a year! So much tun! 
when ordered. 2. Office hoursThe first is over, the second 

begins. 
12:14-5:00. Ads in by 2:00 on day IJefore publication.
To be continued, till the end. Toad 
... Ida. 2da. Jdil. 4d~. Sda. 
WANTED 
l-It .II .71 l.tt 1.15 Ul' 

Wanted: one Electric Typewriter 
11·11 .• 1.• I.JS 1.71 Ul 

good or great shape. Call Tom 
11-• .71 1.11 1.71 Z.tl ZM
287 2731. 
21-11 .. us z.• z ... us 

WANTED: 4 general admission 
Tulane tickets. Call-Bill at 283­
Zlf.3t l.tt l.tt US Ut t.lt 
6843. 
Jl-35 I.Zt l.tt, ZM US t.7t 

~· ·ed ride to Ann Arbor Nov. 4. 
Call Chris 4867. 
31-41 1.35 2.11 Ut 4.25 Ut 

-----···-------·------­
U·451.55 Ut ~.31 Ut Ul

HELP: Need ride to Nashville, -Tenn. tor Thanksgiving. Will help 
-.Mus z.se u• us •·• 

with expenses. Please call Sue . 4554. 






