

On The Inside 
Army ROTC: a double-take .•. page 3 All class officers will meet .•. page 5 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 46 Friday, November 10, 1972 
Ranges from education to turnpikes 
Mitchell to speak 
on enigma of


Shephard varies topics 
•
conscJotJSness


in library speech 
by Jim Gresser 


by Diane Chermside Staff Reporter
Jean Shephard, radio and T.V. personality and American humorist, spoke of education, turn­pikes, New Jersey and concrete Mexicans to a Dr. Edgar D. Mitchell, Apollo 14lunar module pilotcapacity crowd in the Library Auditorium last and sixth person to walk on the moon will speak at night. 
Notre Dame Thursday, November 16th in the Center What Kind of Man reads Playboy for Continuing Education at 8:00 p.m. The subject of Shephard ~s the creator of "Ossie Schlogger," his speech will be "Conciousness-The Ultimate the "kind of man who reads Playboy." 
Enigma''.

Schlogger's girlfriend, Esther, reads The 42-year old astronaut and Navy captain formed a Cosmopolitan. Both of these people, he says, live research corporation, Edgar D. Mitchell & Associates,in Griffith, Indiana and have subscribed for Inc., last October to study the psychic potential of man twelve years and "it still hasn't happened yet." 
and other forms of life. The organization intends to They think that the real Playboy and help people develop greater awareness of themselves,Cosmopolitan readers are "tall and thin" and of their relationship to other people and to the are "off making salads in Denmark." 

processes of nature. 

"Night after night," Shephard said, "we Regarding scientific research into psychic compare our lives with movies, magazines, and phenomena as an important key to developing that television, created by people who dream but awareness, the corporation intends to make its fin­haven't made it yet either. Helen Gurley Brown dings as widely known as possible to the scientific has asthma." 
community and the general public. 

"There are two kinds of people in the world," Mitchell's work experience has covered a wide range he said, "the audience and the star." 
of activities beginning in 1945 with the family business Shephard asked his audience, mainly students of ranching, cattle dealership, farm machineryfrom his home !broadcasting area of New York dealerships and peripheral enterprises. His aviationand New Jersey, for the difference between them interests began in 1944 with the use of aircraft forand "Walter Cronkite." the difference was, he pleasure and in family business. Aviation eventuallysaid, "because of the moment when you see became the main thread of Mitchell's professionalyourself for what you really are. One type sees experience during the next 28 years.

himself and hides in the bushes ... The other, After completing flight training with the U.S. Navy
Shephard: This may be in bad taste, but so is life. 
when the cold light of truth hits him, he puts on in 1954, Mitchell spent four years as an operationalhis shades." He pointed out further that "The pilot flying patrol aircraft and carried-based attacktotal phony can get applauded." 
aircraft in the Pacific and Asian areas while servingOn Education collaterally as a maintenance officer and then as an"The most important thing about education is operations officer. In 1958, he was commissioned as aThese statues along with a set of "three­how not to get called on," he said. His method research and development pilot specializing in attackquarter life size Seven Dwarfs" can be bought at was to "avoid questions by keeping a line of kids aircraft.

any Great Eastern Store in New Jersey. "Dopeydirectly between him and the teacher." The From 1961 through 1964, during preparation of hissquirts fertilizer from his ear."
method of his grade school friend, Schwartz, was doctoral dissertation at M.I.T., Mitchell taughtThe Turnpiketo "sink down in the seat until only his eyes graduate courses in inertial guidance and in­"Americans are what we are because of theshowed." 
terplanetary navigation, including material from histurnpike," he said. "Turnpikes cover the whole "Zynsmeister," another school friend," was a original research. Upon completion of post-graduateland and give people a chance to feel speed andCatholic. You should have heard him rattle education in 1964, Mitchell served as a technicaluse their fancy cars with all the accessories."

those beads." 
director for the Navy in the United States Air ForceA Concrete Mexican Manned Orbiting Laboratory Program. 

He noted that often while driving one noticesWith enthusiastic applause throughout his During his residency at the U.S.A.F. Aerospacethat there is "one necessity they don't put in..
speech, he recounted his experiences with a Research Pilot School, Mitchell served both as studentand you need it." A little voice tells you that youstatueln the front lawn of "Charlie and Mabel" in should have gone in Harrisburg." 
and instructor in training future pilots and astronauts. 

Hackensack, New Jersey. He saw the "concrete As an astronaut, Mitchell was the group leader for He recalled "the moment of sheer poetry, theMexican" sitting in the ya1rd and realized that it his astronaut section. He served consecutively asbrief fleeting moment of true ecstasy" when youwas uniquely American. 
support crew for Apollo 9 and backup crew for Apollofinally reach the Howard Johnson's rest room.

"It's only in our country that we put concrete 10 before he flew on the Apollo 14 Mission with Alan"This may be in bad taste, but so is life." 
people in our yards ... In Mexico, you don't see· .a 
Speaking of that restaurant chains place in Shepard and Stuart Roosa and served on the back-upconcrete Jerseyite with a concrete can of Platt's crew for Apollo 16.
American tradition, he asked, "how can youbeer next to a concrete Ford Galaxie." 
As an engineering test pilot, Mitchell flew allexplain Howard Johnson's to Bresznev or Mao­"For Charlie and Mabel deciding to buy the tse-tsung. Means more to Americans than food. 

categories of conventional, turboprop, jet and rocketMexican is an artistic decision." Noting that It means going. It means being free. I am not an aircraft and the Apollo spacecraft.

concrete Mexicans will probably tell more 3bout atheist. I believe there is a Howard Johnson's." 
Some of Mitchell's publications and lectures include: contemporary America than current1art, he said, "An ESP Test From Apollo 14" (Journal of Parap­At one point in the lecture, Shephard said "I"you don't buy a concrete Mexican casually•" don't make the news, I only report it." 

sychology, June 1971), "Awareness and Science,"They ain't cheap." 
(paper presented at the 125th meeting of the American Psychiatric Association to the Panel of APA Task Force on Transcultural Psychiatry), "A Multi­Disciplinary Team Approach to the Study of Con­sciousness," (paper presented to the Parap­sychological Foundation Convention, August 26, 1972) and an untitled manuscript in preparation for publication in 1973, on Psychic Awareness of Human Society. 
While on the Apollo 14 moon voyage, Mitchell tried to send mental signals to four persons including Olaf Jon~son, a Chicago man known in parapsychology circles as a "sensitive." 
Mitchell used a desk of cards designed at Duke University to test for extra sensory perception. Several times during his mission the astronaut concentrated on the cards, looking at them in random order. Mean­while, back on earth, Jonsson and three other "sen­sitives" also concentrated, trying to catch the image "projected" from Mitchell's mind. Mterwards, in a scientific paper about the flight, Mitchell wrote that the results were "statistically significant," although Jonsson and the others determined the correct order of only a few of the ca~ds." 

Mitchell is presenting his lecture in connection with The Arthur J. Schmitt Challenges in Science Meetings of the College of Science, sponsored by the College of Science and its Student Science Council. Other speakers presented by the council have been Arthur Clark, famous science fiction writer; William Teller, 
The :;tudent government father of the H-Bomb; and Linus Pauling, Nobel Prize 
mailboxes are good for winner. 
something, if not for The lecture will be followed by a mixer in the dining 
mail, as proven by our area of the CCE. The general public is invited. 
sleepy friend here. The (Background informaton courtesy of Associated 
lion sleeps in winter? Press.) 
_ __j 

Friday, November 10, 1972
the observer 


warld briefs 
<cl 1972 New York Times 

Washington--Secretary of State Rogers urged Sen. Edward M. Kennedy not to send a team of United States Physicians to North Vietnam "at this time." Rogers was authoritatively reported to have warned that the proposed visit-in response to an invitation from the Hanoi government to Kennedy -would complicate the current cease­fire negotiations. 
Washington --President Nixon, promising the American people the rigors of self-reliance instead of the soft life, said he hopes to use his second term to lead the nation out of a crisis of the spirit. In an in­terview with the Star news of Washington, Nixon vowed to work to end "The whole era of permissiveness" and to nurture "an new feeling of responsibility, a new feeling of self-discipline." 
Washington -Mrs. Jean Westwood, the woman whom Sen. George McGovern installed as Democratic national chairman, said she would resist efforts by other democrats to oust her from the post, despite her role in the most calamitous democratic presidential campaign ever. 
San Diego, Calif. -With fists raised in a black Power salute as they sat on a pier in San Diego, 130 crewmen refused to board the aircraft carrier constellation, spurning her captain's efforst to conciliate their grievances. the daylong dockside sitdown ended late Thursday when most of the protestors were reassigned to shore stations. 


fri. 
7:30 p.m.--hockey, nd vs. michigan, ace 8 & 10 p.m.--movie, take the money and run, eng. aud. 
8:30 p.m.--play, summer and smoke, washington hall 
sat. 
2:55 p.m.--football, nd vs. air force, wndu (16) 
7:30 
p.m.--hockey, nd vs. michigan, ace 

7:30 
& 10 p.m.--movie, three in the attic, holy cross hall 8 & 10 p.m.--movie, take the money and run, eng. aud 


8:30 p.m.--play, summer and smoke, washington hall 
sun. 
10:30 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.--tournament, karate., stepan center 
2:30 p.m.--reception, econ-business department, student lounge, madaleva hall, smc 
6:00 p.m.--special program, phil conroy and dr. thomas werge on vietnam, wndu (16) 
8:00 p.m.--concert, .nd-smc chorus, o'laughlin aud., smc 8 & 10 p.m.--movie, rules of the game, eng. aud. 
·Graduate SLc· 
NEED WHEELS?

Student Affairs Committee to meet 
by Bruce Petrovick to parallel the SLC on a graduate

Starr Reporter level. 
Besides Augsten the committee 
The Advanced Student Affairs is composed of five appointedCommittee will meet December 5 members. These are: Dr. Burke, to discuss teacher assistants' assistant provost, Fr. Schiltz, vice 
salaries, credit hour inequities, the president of student. affairs, Br. Obsl'rvl'r fee, C-2 parking and dual Kieran Ryan, assistant vice full-time appointments. president of business affairs, The chairman of the Advanced Anthonly Palumbo, president of Student Affairs Committee, Fr. the bar association, BarryRobert Austgen, is of the-opinion Wessels, president of the graduate that the committee could do more, student union, and two more 


REDI-A-EAR

but as of the moment the only Graduate Council members who problems brought forth by the have yet to be named. 
Charter Rentals

graduate students are those There are also four represen­already on the agenda for the tatives from each of the branches 
50715 U.S. 31 N.

upcoming meeting. Austgen also of graduate education on campus, 
272-4484 

pointed out that the committee is Mike Parrott, Science, Br. Finian 
Marv Borr Toyota very young. It met only a few The committee was created Taylor, Humanities, Mr. Baha 
18185 St. Rd. 23 

times last year, and these were of when the SLC petitioned the Zarah, Engineering, and Br. Mark 
8080 

418-S.Michiga" 
287-1569 

organizational nature only. Trustees for graduate membership Ratkus, Social Science. 
AS LOW AS

Maloof: iznproveznent if that is possible I
I 
• $5.95 ;!~ 

b) Mary Janca he's doing, and is a tremendous meeting, Maloof serves on the Walter J. Simons, recently 
Staff Reporter power." Combined with Sr. Basil Development Committee with named to the Board of Regents, is Anthony, Vice Chariman of the representatives of the faculty, the Chairman of this committee. 
We rent to 21 year olds. 





A new library building, a growth  
in  the endowment fund,  and  an  
increase  in  alumnae  con­ 
tributions to the college are among  
the  suggestions  Development  
Committee Representative George  
Maloof brings to his new post.  
Maloof, recently elected to the  
Development  Committee  of  the  
Board of Regents by Saint Mary's  
Parents  Council,  explains  its  
function as "locating new sources  
of  funds."  "This includes,"  he  
continued, "the development oT the  
library, and keeping the school in  
I  the black financially."  
He also expressed the desire that  
St.  Mary's  "con'tinue  the  
f  educational features it has, but to make the school better, if that is possible."  
Having attended  the  Board  of  
Regents meeting held on campus  
this past weekend, Maloof defined  
it  as  "very  productive  and  in­ 
formative."  
I  Maloof belives that change,  in  
' l  order to "keep informative."  productive  and  
~--.  Maloof believes that change, in  
~  order to "keep up with the times"  
is both good and necessary.  He  
stressed that Dr. Henry, president  
of SMC, "is a tremendous source of  
good for the school. He has a great  
background  in  administration."  
Maloof  described  Henry  as  
"strong-willed, looking for needed  
reforms, liberal.  He knows what  

The Observer is published daily 
during the college semester except 
vacations by the students of the 
l'niversity of Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's College. Subscriptions 

may be purchased for S8 per ' 
semester I 14 per year) from the 
Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, 
Indiana 46556. Second class 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. ~556. 

Planning Committee, he said, "they form a great working team." 
Maloof discussed lasy year's unsuccessful merger of Notre Dame with St. Mary's. ."There are areas of compatability," he said, "where the two schools can work together." 
Also serving on the Board of Governors of Saint Jude's Research Hospital in Tenessee, Maloof became involved in the Parents' Council "four or five year afo." One daugher is a graduate of SMC, another is currently in at­tendence, while a third is expected to enter next fall. 
Elected to this new office by the Parents' Council at their last 

student  body,  and  alumnae.  
Reception Sunday  MAIN CHURCH  
lor econ, business  SUNDAY MASSES  
majors at SMC  
5:15 p.m. Sat.  Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.  
Saint Mary's department of economics and business ad­ministration will hold · a get­ 9:30 a.m. Sun. 10:45 a.m. Sun. 12:15 p.m. Sun.  Fr. J. Bernard Clark, C.S.C. Fr. James Shaughnessy Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C.  
together for faculty  and  majors  
this Sunday, November 12, in the  "Evening Prayer" vespers at4:30 p.m. Sunday.  
student lounge of Madaleva Hall, at 2:30 p.m. All econ-business majors and faculty are invited.  Confessions are heard before each weekday mass and from 7:00 to 7:30p.m. Monday through Saturday.  

Student union invites you to spend an evening with 
YES 
"Yes completely captivated their audience by blending their brilliant vocal harmony with an equally brilfiant display of thoroughly precise musicianship." -Cash Box 
"YES are something special!" -Sounds 
" ..~intelligent, memorable, uncluttered melodies and arrangements." -Richard Cromelin 
"YES have started masses of perhaps not very sophisticated record buyers to thinking more about what music really is." -Words & Music 
"The band firmly and beautifully manipulates the whole of its gargantuan sound." -Rolling Stone 
There are still some good $4.50 and $2.75 seats available at the ACC Ticket Office arid the Student Union Ticket Office. 

(THE OBSERVER) 
I 
I

I A change came... 
Friday, November 10, 1972 
A startling standout in the ROTC formation, Sandy Lema shows the same grimness at the prospect of anothel'" half-hour of drill. 


Company takes on 


a new look 
by Don White Staff Reporter 

Sandy Lema, as a "cross enrollment" student from Indiana University at South Bend, is the first woman to be enrolled in Notre Dame's Army ROTC program, adding a new flavor to A Company's Second Platoon. 
Cdt. Lema said her decision to enroll in ROTC was actuallyy a "spur-of-the-moment thing." Although she had been considering it, she didn't know she was going through with it until registration day at IUSB. 
What finally convinced her, she said was seeing Maj. Alex Cochran, MS IV instructor and counselor. 
"Maj. Cochran was sitting down, speaking with five guys. He was all smiles and just seemed so nice. I decided to approach him, and as I did so, he immediately rose." 
Miss Lema described Maj. Cochran as being a "perfect gentleman." and full of "charisma." 
"The first thing I asked him-1 was scared--was that if I didn't like it, could I get out," said Lema, a freshman majoring in sociology and economics. 
"I had always criticized the Army and the other services, too, without really knowing anything about them. I decided to find out about it. I have, and I like it." she acknowledged. 
She said she had considered joining Air Force ROTC, and that Cochran had set up an appointment for her with an Air Force representative. She finally opted for the Army, however, because "the Air Force seemed so oriented toward engineering and technology, whereas the Army offers a larger variety of people and jobs." She pointed out that even the Air Force representative seemed "mechanical," as he used prepared note cards throughout their interview. 
Miss Lema says she is quite sure she is going to stay in the program and become a commissioned Army officer. She intends to apply for an ROTC scholarship, and to transfer to Notre Dame next semester. 
Although the Artny initiated a program this year to enroll women as cadets at ten schools across the country, she is not a part of it, nor is Notre Dame's Army ROTC. Professor of Military Science Col. Alvin Gendron says, however, that he considers her enrollment "just as official as any other cadet's." 

photo courtesy of 'the shamrock' 
South Bend's Newest SPORT SHOP 

THI SIDRT 



aNE,mc. 
2314 South Bend An Downtown South Bend. Phone 272-9171 

This week at .HOWARD HALL 
COMEDY FILM FESTIVAL 
(W.C. Field's & the 3 StoQges) 
Saturday 7 & 9:15 pm 
Admission 25~t Howard's Answer to the "Dating Gar:ne" Thurs. 8:30 No Charge 
from 
Chicago's 
EARL OF OLD TOWN 




KELLER 
& 


WEBB 
Two Accomplished 
performers of 
CONTEMPORARY AMERICAN FOLK MUSIC 
See these beautiful people 
Sat. nite 
8:00·10:30 
Lafortune Ballroom 
50 cents admission 
First in a Series from the 
social comm1ss1on 


the observer 
March I government loan deadli 
by William Betz Staff Reporter 

Notre Dame students wishing to get a government subsidized loan for the upcoming semester should make arrangements for it before March 1, 1973. After that date, a new provision calling for "needs test" will be added to the Federal Guaranteed Loan Program ac­cording to Jean McCauslin, assistant director of financial aid. 
Information on who is eligible to r<'cl'ive a guaranteed student loan and how to obtain one is available in a pamphlet issued by the U.S. Office of Education. Copies of this pamphlet may be obtained in the Office of Financial Aid. 
A~ present, a student desiring a 
Senior trip 
pickup times 

Students participating in the Denver trip to see the Notre Dame-Air Force game should meet today, Friday, at the Circle for boarding on the busses to O'Hare airport. Busses will leave the Circle at 3:00p.m. for Notre Dame students, and will pick up St. Mary's students in the LeMans parking lot at 3:20. 
Philosopher meeting 
set for this weekend 
The biannual meeting of the Hegel Society of America, a national association of philosophers takes place this weekend at the Center for Con­tinuing Education, announced Prof. Cornelius Delaney, chairman of NO's philosophy department. 
120 philosophers from around the United States will attend the convention. Many will present papers on the convention's theme, "Hegel and the history of Philosophy." 
Among the major papers to be presented is one by A. Robert Kaponigri of ND on "Hegel's conception of the history of Philosophy." 
Other important presentations include: "Hegel's Judgement of Kant," By John Smith of Yale; "Hegelianism and Platonism, " by 
J.N. Findlay of Boston University; and "Hegel and Peirce," by Max Fish of Illinois University. 
government loan mdst first fill out the necessary application forms at his bank. Once he has done that, his college or university will sign a 
statement that he is in good standing with the school and the application is processed. 
The government pays the in­terest on a Guaranteed Student loan for any student whose ad­justed family income is below $15,000. This subsidy is paid while he is in school and until the repayment period starts nine to twelve months after he leaves. Students whose adjusted family income is above $15,000 do not now receive thses subsidies. 
The new regulations require a college or vocational school to assess a student's need for a 

Seibert wins prize 
Sister Katherine Seibert, a 
graduate student in microbiology 
at the University of Notre Dame, 
was awarded the Garner Prize by 
the Indiana Academy of Science 
and tl1e I11diana Branch of the 
American Society of Microbiology. 
The prize is awarded to the graduate student who presents the best paper at the meeting of lAS. Sister Katherine's paper was entitled "Some Aspects of Humoral Immunity in Germfree and Conventional SJL-J Mice in Relationship to Age." 
Registration lor En Passant chess 
to be held today 

Registration for the En Passant 
no. 1 chess tournament is today in 
Breen-Phillips hall. Registration 
time is froiThS:OO to 5:45. The first 

round of competition starts Friday 
at 6:00 pm. 
The tournament is a five round 
Swiss System. Both teams and 
individual honors will be awarded. 
A team consists of four players 
from the same hall. The 
registration fee is $1.25 per person. 
"All halls are encouraged to 

bring a team in order to compete
for the team trophies," said 
Ricardo Campa, tournament 

and fifteen minutes. Players must 1 
supply their own sets and clocks. 
All rounds of competition will be held Friday night and Saturday. Trophies will be awarded to the top three teams and the top three individuals. 

The tournament is sponsored by the Breen Phillips Chess Club and En Passant, a new chess organization affiliated with the ND Chess Club. 
Observer ad!$ pay off 

--~"==============.r 
CAC 

Presents 
WOODY ALLEN 
in 

"Take the Money and Run" 
Nov. 10-11 Eng. Aud. 8-10pm Admission $1 
subsidized loan. UndeJr the new 
amount of the student· loan is 

rules, the student's eligability for a determined by" The financial aid loan is first determined, and thy officer ·of the institution. Taht his eligability for interest subsidies determination is based on the is considered. the change here,is 
tuition of the college, the amount of that students whose family income other financial aid the student is is under $15,000 are no longer receiving, the contribution of the guaranteed a federalinterest family and the judgement of the 
subsidies. 
financial aid officer. 

Under the present system, the The addition of the Parents student applies for the amount of Confidentt'al Statement to the GSL 
money, up to $1,500, he thinks he Program does not apply to those will need for the upcoming year. students seeking a government'With the new program, the loan with no federal subsidizing. 
SMC Choral Concert slated for Sunday 
Saint Mary's College Music Department is presenting its Fall Choral Concert at 8:00 p.m., Sunday, November 12, 1972 in the College's O'Laughlin Auditorium. The concert is open to the public and free. 
Dr. James McCray, Chairman, Music Department, Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, will direct the Saint· Mary's Notre Dame Concert Choir. The choir has sixty voices and will be performing a variety of pieces. 
They will open with two early motets by Lodovico Viadana and Jacques Clement. Works from the Romantic period include pieces by Alexander GretchanirllOff and Gioacchino Rossini; the latter 
TV film to be shown on orphan problem 
Last summer, a Notre Dame senior NROTC midshipman took a summer cruise off the coast of Vietnam. During that cruise, he became aware of a problem not so well known in this country: the adoption of orphan children sired by American Gl's. This awareness ultimately resulted in his escorting seventeen of these orphans to a new life with American families. 
This adventure of senior Phil Conroy's, as told in interviews and film footage, will be rebroadcast onSundaynightat6:00onWNDU 
Time limit on a game is one hour .
director.trel~eviiiSli.oini,ich~a~nn~e~lil~6~.......~~====:=:=:====~~~=======~~~~~~~~~ 
Barcla~(s 
Gin $3.~j~·th 
Popov VodkcJ 
$3.fi~th 
Chivas Regal $9.~;th 
10% Discount by the cas•e 
features soprano Miss Susan Stevens of the Saint Mary's College faculty. 
The twentieth century works are by Daniel Pinkham, who will be on campus later this Spring as a composer-in-residence, and Howard Hanson. The Pinkham work employs a prepared elec­tronic tape and simulates the beginning of creation. This will be the choir's first concert with Dr. McCray. 
Dr. Arthur Lawrence, Professor of Music at Saint Mary's College, will direct the Collegium Musicum in the same program. The Collegium Musicum illcludes two small groups, the Madrigal Singers and the In­strumental Chamber Ensemble. They will be performing Renaissance and Baroque music by Josquin des Prez, Guillaume Dufay, Orlando Gibbons, Thomas Weelkes and George Teleman. 
Tonite! 

However, loans that are not sidized by the government the student to begin 
, payments at 7 per compound, the year he 

the loan;  and  the  current  
economic  situation  and  the  
that  banks  don't  make  

money on these loans, may finding a bank willing to lend to college student hard. 


PITTSBURGH® PAINTS 
Notre Dame Student Discoun 
-30% off latex Paint 15% off unpainted furniture 
333 S. Michigan 289-2439 



People and Song 
Coffeehouse Entertainment Refreshments 
II d 9 2 
Alumni Ha lounge Fri ays ­Adm'Issi'on 25' 
PARTY ITH US I CORBY'S RESERVE 
'12 gal-$1 0.60 quarts $5.55 
fifth $4.49 
Prices in Town *Keg Beer 
•aud.....l••t• Wine Cella 
& COUNTRY 
LIQUOR 
Town & Country Shpg Ct 
Coke or 7-Up 

8-1679
oz. ctn. 
RIVER 
PARK 


LIQUOR
2411 Mish. Ave. 

Friday, November 10, 1972 the observer 
First of its kind 


Ackerman meets with class officers 

scheduling for class elections.
by Bob Quackenbush 
A preliminary to increased inter­class cooperation took place Wednesday evening as Dr. Robert Ackerman, Director of Student Activities, met with class representatives in what was believed to be the first gathering of its type at Notre Dame. 
According to Ackerman, Senior C'lass President Jim Hunt initiated the meeting in order to establish a precedent for such assemblages. "RPgular gatherings of class representatives could prove beneficial for all in terms of the sharing of ideas and heightened cooperation," said Hunt. 
The main topics discussed at the initial meeting dealt with methods of structuring class governments and means of developing stan­dardized election procedures. A spin-off from the latter topic led to discussion about the best possible 
Hunt: Regular gatherings could prove beneficial to 
all 

WSND to air poverty sezninar: shov.r vvill be broadcast Sunday 
WSND-FM will broadcast an afternoon of programming on the topic of poverty, both on the national scale, and in its im­plications for the South Bend area, this Sunday, No. 12. 
Kelly triwnphs at Wisconsin State 
debate tourney 
Senior Brian Kelly took honors as first place speaker at the Wisconsin State Invitational Debate Tournament held this past weekend at Oshkosh. 
With 20 teams participating in the tournament, Kelly captured the top spot with a commanding point-totallead over debaters from Northwestern and Illinois State. 
Sophomore Dave Hayes took the 5th place speaker trophy. Ranking 5th among the 40 debaters was especially notable because WSU was only the second varsity tournament in Hayes' collegiate career. 
The team of Brian Kelly and junior John Flannigan gained fifth place in the tournament with a 4-2 record. The Irish debaters barely misst!d qualifying for the semi­finals, the first scheduled set of Plimination rounds. 
Beginning at noon, the broadcast will examine the scope of poverty across the nation and will feature professors Dugan and Masters of economics, as well as Charles Lennon who is working in South Bend community development. Topics will then progressively narrow down to specific areas of interest in South Bend. 
Representatives of the neigh­borhood centers, as well as Ann Maxwell of the South Bend Action agency will discuss the poverty situation at the community level. 
Problems of the aged, and the implications of welfare will then be discussed at 2:00 with represen­tatives of South Bend public welfare, R.E.A.L., an agency that deals with senior citizens, and Helen Arnold, the wife of a Notre Dame professor and a worker in these areas. 
The approach of the broadcast will then shift, from 3:00 until its completion at 6:00, to the cam­paign for human development, an anti-poverty program of the Catholic Church, and its achievements in combatting the self-reproducing poverty situation. 
Topics here will include the Church's viewpoint as discussed by Father Frank Quinlivan, human relations commissioner of the South Bend diocese, and professor Jim Danahey of the 
s 
H 
u 
A 
s 

H u L A 'S 
GOOD AFTERNOON 
SHULA'S H 
Celebrate early for NO's Win over Air Force, 
u 

Do it with two great bands, 

L 
~ Jvite C/u~ 
2,802 SOUTH 11th ROAD 
A

NILES. MICHIGAN 49120 
Ptu.Jne 683-4350 

HU L A 'S 
Expressing his enthusiasm about the idea of class officers working together to solve mutual problems, Freshman President Jim Bradley commented: "This is the first attempt in history by the classes to get together and put something (concerning class organization, elections, etc) in concrete form. Prior to this, classes were bound by tradition alone. Now we'll have something solid to base ourselves on." 
Ackerman reported that the next meeting will probably be held in the next two weeks. He cited the fact that the sophomore class was not represented this time, but added that, since the session originally had been scheduled for an earlier date and had been abruptly rescheduled, a break­down in communication was evidently the reason for their absence. 
Ackerman: Next meeting 
to be held within two 
weeks 

Notre Dame faculty. Individually funded projects of the campaign will then be examined including several projects within the Chicano community, work with American Indians, and the area of penal reform. 
The purpose of this broadcast is to attempt to make peoople aware of the scope of poverty, and the part if plays in every community. It is hoped that many of the myths of welfare and welfare loafers will be exploded, and that an ap­preciation for efforts such as the campaign for human development can be attained. WAND-FM broadcasts at 88.9 MHZ on the FM band. 

Observer 
ads 
pay off! 
RoGERS 




Optical 
1100!1 ATWRL • OWNII 


INTERESTED IN AN INTERNATIONAL CAREER? 
MR. HAROLD G. BAKER 
will be on the campus 
Friday November 17, 1972 
to discuss qualifications for advanced study at 
THUNDERBIRD GRADUATE SCHOOL 
and job opportunities in the field of 
INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT 
Interviews may be scheduled at 
Placement Center 
THUNDERBIRD GRADUATE SCHOOL 
OF 
INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT 
Glendale, Arizona 85301 
Affiliated with The American Management Association 
HOUIS•
MON • JUES • 1'HUR • P11 PAM 5.30 PM W!D • SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
CX>MPUrf Wl!lcrACU 
SRYICE ALL E'I'E ot.'S PIUCaJPTIONS H0NCJ11C 
e.!! 
289~7109 


FLANNEL FANS! 
Spread the good word ... Gilberrs Campus Shop has flannel shirts in a good selection of colors and sizes. Priced from $6 to make more flannel fans than ever before. 
The Campus Shop also has CPO Shirts, Jackets. Outer Coats. Gloves, Scarfs and other winter
ALSO 

necessities and niceties. 
NO SERVICE CHARGE 
Use the exclusive Campus Shop Way to Buy ... pay next year, with no service or carrying charge added. 

NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 BUSINESS: 283-7471 




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Editor-in-Chief 
Don Ruane Executive Editor 
Friday, November 10, 1972 

The Directory II. 
Yesterday's editorial suggested that the university might profitably publish the student telephone directory on its own--that is, without contracting to provide the publisher with all the ad­vertising profits. There are very con­crete reasons why this suggestion is feasible. 
The first reason is that local publication of thedirectoryprovides much greater control over its accuracy and content. If the publisher's press is located in the South Bend area, copy for the directoy can be dropped off on a daily basis, proofs can be examined _and the very latest information can be mcluded wi.thout significantly delaying the final document. 
Obviously this time and accuracy argument worked to the advantage of all the members of the university com­munity. One cannot reasonably expect the university telephone operators to handle all the unnecessary directory assistance informationgeneratedby a one month delay in the official directory or by permanent inaccuracies in _the d~l!ment without signficant losses m eff1c1ecy. Neither can one expect a volunteer group like the Arnold Air Society to man a telephone information center for two­thirds of the first semester. 
Summer Jobs 
During the summer the university has over 2,500 students. While most of these student are teachers and religious people pursuing masters degrees over several summers, there are still many un­dergraudate, graduate and law students who could use the extra money that the commissions from the classified ad­vertising would provide. Designating student editors would not be simple 
because benevolence on the university's part, the principal benefit ~ould be_ the greater usefulness that an early direc­tory would provide. 
The principle trade-off in the whole problem is writing time vs. effort. In this case Notre Dame (hopefully in con­
junction with Saint Mary's) should take very step to minimize the waiting time. To do this a lot of effort will be needed, but only for a few weeks at the beginning of the semester. Its probably worth it. 
John Abowd 

mtiiiiiiWIIIUHIUIUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIliiiOIOfllllllllllllllllllllllllll\ 
Letters ... 
feminist lecture 
Editor: 
So many people from Notre Dame have spoken to me about the reported version of my lecture "Antifeminist Literature: A Historical Perspective" that I reluctantly write this letter. Although the article was generally inaccurate in presenting both my views and my intentions, I object to none of the misunderstandings that were conveyed through peraphrase. They are par for the course. I do object to the large number of direct quotations that were falsely ascribed to me. Occasionally those quotations contained a phrase I used, but more largely the con­veyed ideas that were not mine in a vocabulary much less the superlative sexist that the article credits with me. Although I am proudly a member of the woman's movement, I do not use cliches, slogans, or jargon of that or a!ly other movemetn. As a humamst and a feminist, moreover, I am opposed to attaching reductive labels to all human beings, dead or alive, female or male. 
I do not mean to attack the 
reporter or the student press, with 
daanesbury 
O.~NbXT , 
QU:STI0/11, c,qfW. 
AJOlJtP YOIJ SIJY. 
YOU ,qRE "UP '' 

• 
d FOR 'TI£ 6/We10HtlePOtu? 
.. ~ 
\ 

whom I am (as ex-adviser of a student paper) truly sympathetic. You get very little praise while you are performing an important service~ under immense and continuous pressures. But I do want to suggest that both as reporters and as members of the community of scholars, we should recognize the beauty, the im­portance, the perm~nent value_ of evidence. To put mto quotation marks things a person did not say 
is to create false evidence and to defy the best principles . of a journalism and of scholarship. 
Finally, I spent about ten minutes at the outset of my talk explaining why I was speaking under my real name, and not the name I assumed when I married. May I merely add now that ~ signing my name as Glona Kaufman and not Gloria Shapiro, I am not changing my marital status. 
Yours Sincerely, 
Gloria G. Kaufman 
Associate Professor 
Department of English 
Weaver's column 
Editor: I would like to contribute one 
Dan Thornton Business Manager 

Joe Butler Advertising Manager 
opinion in support of Larry Weaver's views concerning the selection next year's women's dormitory. 
As another who was bumped out of my hall last year I can testify to the fact that all that is ac­complished by delaying the selection and announcement is to bring considerably more hardship to those who are displaced. Off campus housing here is pathetic. The more time one has to shop around the better his selection. 
No one objects to having girls at Notre Dame. I don't really object to them taking my hall. I do ob­ject, however, to the deli~erate and unconsciousable hardship that seems to be occurring again. Due to Fr. Burtchaell ':sensele!)s: delay. 
Finally this. I don't read the editorial page very often. I don't imagine very many others do either. It all seems to crisis con­scious and pseudo-intellectual. In this respect I find Larry Weaver's column to be the most refreshing thing to have appeared on that 
page in the 3 and a  half years I  
have been here.  
Sincerely,  

Stan Kendig Mishawaka, Ind. 

---,-.~~iiiS~R---------------~-~-~~5~T~~~~------~ 
z. 
afs/rights reserve~ 


The ,. .Weapans Shap 


The Ombudsman 

mike davis 

The need for an information service is a very vital requirement of life on this campus. With the many levels of authority, and action being implemented at dulac, the confusion of an unaware student can reach paramount proportions. Consider the fact that in Lafortune ~tuden l 
Center alone there is located Student Government, Student Umon, the Scholastic magazine offices, the Observer, and the infamous Huddle. These are five organizations which have a great function in the qll:a~ity of campus life -what the student reads, what he can see entertammg on campus and, last but not least, what the student occasionally puts in his stomach when the dining halls do not live up to their usual stan­dards. And these five organizations are only a fraction of the bureaucracy which goes into the policy making function which directly determines what the ND-SMC student will be offered to widen his scope. How is a normal human being supposed to cope with this vast collage when he wants information? Frustration could be an easy result of the attempt to cope. But, alas, salvation is here. It's the good old Ombudsman service. 
Now, you may not equate salvation with the Ombudsman service. Consider however the dilemma of a long lost student who called our office th~ other day wanting to know how he could avoid taking ad­vantage of the laundry service which is offered here. He clearly did not like starch in his socks and wanted nothing to do with the laundry on campus. A simple problem which required a small iota of in­formation to solve. We quickly directed him to Student Services and he went away a satisfied man. This is just an example of the many calls received at 7638. 
The Ombudsman service is a truly valuable commodity which the students can take advantage of. Under the leadership of Bill MacLean a random collection of dedicated workers are at the phones from 10-5 ~n weekdays and from 6-10 on Sundays. All of this is for the purpose of aiding anyone who calls about g~neral inform~tion or services they cannot seem to get. You could picture the service as a responsible mediator between the st~;~dents and the hig~ter ~h~lons of authority. The sole purpose is to assist the students. Smcer1ty IS not a questionable motive because the entire aim of the service is to help the student. That's H-E-L-P. 
The possibilities of this organization are unlimited. Truly, it is a vehicle of the students as no other organization on campus is. Direct contact is our only means of dealing with the problems of the student body. Our product is assistance and we are distribuzing it according to the needs that are determined for us. Who determines them? Everyone of: you do. The potential of this service in terr1_1s of ac­complishment is solely a product of the students. Hence, we give you a product if you give us something to work with. The advocate of your needs-that is what the Ombudsman service is to the ND-SMC com­munity. 
The Ombudsman service is located in the Student Government of­fices in Lafortune. The stockpile of information which we have gathered warrants us the ability to poi':lt out man~ things ~hich would not otherwise be pointed out. Information for you IS our busmess. 
Being a mediator between students' problems and administrators' problems brings with it much responsibility. But in the inte~~f:S. of that elusive quantity truth, WP have accepted the responsibilities gladly. What we want for ourselves and for you is what re~lly goes on in the university. This is contained in both the outer workmgs and the inner workings. What we are attempting to give is the facts as they really are. So, we are at your service and your mercy. If you have a question or a problem-give us a buzz. We're there at 7638 
qarry trudeau the observer 
Joe Abell 

you'Re "VP." 
"-.. 
Managing Editor: News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Ann therese Darin Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Night Editor: Joe Abell Assistant Night Editor: Bill Brink Layout: Maria Gallagher Day Editor: Bill Sohn Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips Night Controller: \Rob Barringer 
Editorials printed in The Observer 
reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf 
of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the Individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 

r--------------------------------~--------------------.. 
Friday, November 10, 1972 the observer 
7 


quotations fr·om chairman baum part two 
-·­





a scenario for the revolution 
,. COUP D'ETAT 

& enario for the Revolution 
as applied to 

Notre Dame Student Govemment 
by 
Michael Baum 

Obsf'rvf'r Staff Conspirator 
Every governmental power structure has certain key pos\tions, not neccessarily with actual power, but close to the pulse and flow of events, men whose coUI1sels are heard by the decision makers. People in such positions will be invaluable to our in­telligence operation, if only for their in­timate knowledge of personalities. When the chips are down, where will Etienne go, with Kersten or with us? Can Clark be relied upon, or must he be removed? These answers we must know. 
To this end, the offices must be raided at an opportune time. This may be Saturday, during a football game, or Friday evening about 10:00. Or 3:00A.M. Saturday. 
There is precedent (or this. In Spring of 1972, a small team <two men) temporarily took over the offices of The Observer, in­cluding the composing machin, HAL, and succeeded in running off enough material to layout a small flyer with comparatively little difficulty. 
We shall, of course, be better prepared. Here, again, an insider with the proper keys will greatly simplify matters. Five men, knowing in advance the places to go, and carrying knapsacks and attacJte cases can clean out the Student Government Files in fifteen to twenty minutes. 
Then we will simply hide them, in a place of maximum security from discovery, plus optimal access-so we can use them im­mediately, as we certainly must to demonstrate that our rule is a going con­cern. The memory banks of the IBM 370 may well be our best bet. Data filed on the machine will remain undiscovered, save by 
computer;J>rogrammers, for as long as need be, and be only as far away as the nearest terminal. And the computer programmers, let's face it, won't know what's coming off anyway. 
At the risk of seeming repititious, I must emphasise: We must be functioning as a government from the moment the files are seized. Comissioners and sub­commissioners, deputies and an executive board must be chosen in advance. All concerned must know all available factors of their positions prior to the seizure of the actual details contained within those folders. 
A judiciary must be set up and ready to act. The functions of our Judiciary will be covered in the post-coup section. An in­telligence net, which will of course provide the intelligence and surveillance duties needed in our pre-coup activities, must be functioning long before the other branches. 
The construction of such an intelligence net is a highly intuitive affair, not easily detailed, consisting in the main of widespread and talkative aquaintances and friends. Any three of four of the more professional Observer or WSND personnel, pooling their resources, will know almost anything necessary. 
To save time, it will also be helpful if the appropriate press releases, with a few blanks for name and times, be prepared in advance. This will save time, and strain on the night editors involved. 
11111111111 IIIIIIIUIIIIIIIII In II IllHIllIIIII111111111111111111111111111 
After the Fact 

Let us not bandy philosophical nonsense. Evf'ry question can be boiled down to the onf': 'Why is there anything?' Every rf'ligious, business and governmental quf'stion has the single derivative: 'Who will exf'rcise the power?' 
-Edric, Guild Steersman 

For us, the most dangerous stage of the coup will be its aftermath. Government once seized must be retained. There are two prongs to this-positive thought reform, and discipline. Both rest on that all-important factor in student affairs: Propaganda. 
There are three main information sources on this campus. Need we list them? The Observer, WSND, The Scholastic. 
The Scholastic is artsy. I publishes once every two weeks. It is in the throes of personnel change. Its effect is brief, and 
concert choir sunday 
Surely some of you have seen posters advertising a concert to be presented by the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Concert Choir and the Collegium Musicum at O'Laughlin Auditorium this Sunday at 8:00p.m. 
What kind of images are you getting? Discouraging images? Pictures of a scraggly group of forty students, clothes clashing, or perhaps them hiding behind lint-covered black robes, performing a weak collection of obscure pieces better left behind history's closed doors, a potentially powerful musical voice singing with a pa~chy attack that claims only decibel viftories and magically . changing the minutes to hours with each noisily turned page? 
Whatever you may have thought about the ND-SMC choir before this Sunday, be ready to have your opinions shattered Sunday evening at O'Laughlin. 
The new concert group is led by a 
veritable star whose shine has already been 
proven at Southern Florida University, in 
Europe, within the music publishing world, 
with thousands of singers-BOO in the past 
four years--and with listeners in his myriad 
audiences. Sunday will come his debut at 
South Bend. 
The man is Dr. James T. McRay, this 
year new to Saint Mary's College, St. 
Mary's music department chairman and 
conductor of the ND-SMC concert choir 
the program, are presenting six 16th and 
17th century works, highlighted by their 
final madrigal "Hark Ye Lovely Saints 
Dr. Arthur Lawrence, former SMC music 
department chairman and choir director, 
will present with !he concert choir his 
david rust 

Collegium Musicum, including the Madrigal Singers and an instrumentalist group. 
Dr. Lawrence's Madrigal Singers, first on 
Above,"  by  Thomas  Weelke.  The  in­ 
strumentalists will follow with  a  baroque  
sonata by George Teleman.  

Then follows the choir with "Exsultate Deo." Choir president and South Bend SMC senior Carol Dzikowski conducts "Adoramus Te," that "whispering touch" mentioned above. 
Featured soloist Susan Stevens, of the SMC music faculty, will then lead the choir in an attack on Rossini's fiery "ln­flammatus et Accensus" from his Stabat Mater. 
Russian basses and lilting women's voices legitimize the choir's rendition of Gret­choninoff's "The Cherubic Hymn." Then Dr. McRay will bring electronic music to Saint Mary's and Notre Dame for the first time in Pinkhaam's "In the Beginning Creation," a Genesis text overlaid atop a rhythmic network which also supports pringing electronic shrills and blasts, and a final chord introducing light to the world for thP first time. 
The doctor's group ends with "Song of Democracy" by Howard Hanson, an overpowering finale that shatters every previous mood. Choir accompanist SMC freshman Patty Jo Cahalan helps push the piece to its explosion with her kinetic in­terpretation of Hanson's score. 
There's no reason anyone shouldn't enjoy the concert choir. There is a reason why it could be considered, after the last notes are struck, the most dynamic musical effort of wholly local origin to grace the two cam­puses yet this year. 
discontinuous, due its long lapse between issues. We may for all practical purposes discount it. 
WSND would be nice to have on our side. Their news service certainly carries some weight, and they would be an em­"radio Free Oligarchy" or some such thing. On the other hand, they have not the long­lasting effect of the printed word. To hundreds of students who depend basically on The Observer for news, they are useful only for their music broadcasts. 
Which brings us to The Observer. We must have control of this paper for the sake of our cause. This will, of course be facilitated ifthe "we" refered to happe~s to be the Observer staff. 
Anyone who is familiar with The Ob­sf'rver will realize the potential of an Ob­Sf'I"Vf'r editorial to shape student opinion ­nil. None the less, this publication is in­credibly useful as the average student's main source of information on the doings of student government. 
They may deride the paper as inaccurate, biased, frought with special interest groups, but, curiously enough, nine times out of ten they will believe it. This will be the source of our power. 
Immediately following the coup, news stories will be run to explain the change of power as natural and orderly. All members of the present student government, ex­cepting those that see reason and come over to our side, will be mentioned only as "J.X., the ex-such and such", until the idea that these people were once, but no longer, in authority is impressed upon the minds of the rabble over their afternoon meal. 
Possible information to the contrary will 
be dropped altogether, or buried in three 
column inches on page nine. Influential 
sources, perhaps Kersten himself, will be 
quoted as supporting the new regime, 
regardless of their actual opinions. A 
retraction, passing the matter off as a 
confusion in the layout room (easily 
believed) may be printed the next day, 
buried as before on page nine, once the 
initial impact has registered. 
One thing, and one thing only, must be 
observed. The coup, and its aftermath 
must never be mentioned on the editorial 
page. This courts disaster, as any cause 
professedly supported by The Observer is on 
the road to oblivion. 

Ex-and present members of the govern­
ment will be kept in line by means of our here at Notre Dame. Judiciary branch, mentioned above. The Judiciary will be a panel of judges, "Once more the drama begins." composed of members of the highest -Emperor Paul Maud'dib 

coming november 18 


echelons of the coup. It will hear cases of 
treason, sedition, or anything we can pass 
off as one of those two. (Parking violations 
we can generally count on the Judicial 
Board, as it presently exists, to handle.) 
Obviously, we will not be in a position to assess fines or impose imprisonment on the defendants. We have, however, a clout that will work very well on these personages. 
w_e will deny them news-coverage for periOds ~p to a month or more, thus cutting off the life-blood of any student politician ­printer's ink. For extreme cases we may have to go so far as to impose penalties of many weeks of bad press. 
As ~xpl_ained above, most other campus orgamzations can be trusted to go their merry ways. The one uncertain factor is, of course, the Hall President's Council. Here improvisation can be used. The threat of interdict under the Judiciary may well keep some of them in line. Fortunately, the HPC's power seems to be chimerial at best and with any luck, at all, they will go n~ further than to pass a resolution or two. These will, as usual, be buried on page nine. 
Properly executed, neatly followed through, coup d'etat will prove to be one of the m?st educ~tional and personally rewardmg expenences of your four years 
',. .. 

.---~--------------------------------------------------­
the observer Friday, November 10, 1972
8 


Letters • • • 
Editor: Editor: Thl' preparation and printing of 
We are a group of heterosexual a University telephone directory 
Notre Dame students who are sl'ems to take more time every interested in gathering together to vl'ar. During the wait until it discuss our problems and create i:oml's out. there are no published new experiences. Considering the 
lists of names and telephone prevalent social taboos (closed numbers to help the students find 
dorms, parietal hours) that and spl•ak to one another byphone. 
presently exist at Notre Dame, we This year, Mario Avalos, the feel that it would be beneficial if we 
commanding officer of the Arnold joined together and exchanged Air Society, came to our office ideas-and views in an open, healthy asking if his group could be of any atmosphere. With this group we sPrvice--just as we were wondering hope to offer acceptance and en­
how to provide telephone in­couragement to all who are in­formation until the directories terested. We are an open group, camP out. The Arnold Air Society needing help from members of the 
is a group of Air Force ROTC opposite sex to find our inner eadets committeed to community strength. If G.A. can establish sl'rvice. The fellows have the help organized outlets for their of the girls in their Auxiliary unit, frustrations, why can't their fellow Angel Flight. Through the help of students of S.M.C.-N.D. do so? Mario and the diligent Anyone interested may call or management of David Baird, the come by anytime. project known as Directory Assistance has srved the Pat Laughlin 351 Zahm 1352 University community from SPptember 3 until the directories Joe Sukola 352 Zahm 1441 arrived from the printer last wePkend. By dialing 3222, we have bPen able to obtain student ad­
Abortion dramatized

dresses, telephone numbers and som<• bonus message like an en­eouragement to register to vote. Two telephones have been Editor: opPrat<>d twelve hours a day by Air I note in the Observer that you I<'orce cadets and their friends for have decided to resume last year's the last two months. celebrated anti-abortion cam­
I bring this service to the at­paign. While I salute you in this tPntion of your readers because the worthy cause, please allow me to students deserve great public offer a few suggestions. lTl'dit for their long hours of First of all, let me say how much volunteer-service. I wish I could do I miss those little advertisements more to thank them. We all owe which decorated the Observer thPm an immense amount of each lunch hour for a while last gratitude. year --you remember, those 
delightful little photos of gnarled, Sincl'rPlv, discarded fetuses in hospital l{<•v. Jaml's L. Shilts, C.S.C. wastebasRets. In placing those Assistant Vice President for ads, I feel the Knights of Columbus StudPnt Affairs performed a great service to the 
Social Commission does not control tickets 
Editor that the "good" floor seats are 
In response to Jim Gritowski's split equally between the Social letter of November 2 regarding the Commission and the Convo with its ticket policies of the Student Union various outlets. The difference is Social Commission: we have that the Social Commission makes nothing to do with distribution of· its good tickets available to the the Convo's quota of the concert student and does not "sell out" the tickets. Student Union usually floor after three people or initially receives the area shaded in the offer row 16 to people who have map, i.e. Sections A and B, or C waited in line for five hours. This and D; Sections 7,8,10; and Sec­is our policy. We have no control tions 109 and 110. It has been a over the policies of the Convo. standing policy of the Social Commission to offer for general Sincerely, sale front row seats in Section B as Kevin J. Krull well as all of the front rows of Social Commission Section A. It is blatently obvious Ticket Manager 


$165 
Round trip air fare 
NY-Luxembourg-NY Leave December 27 --Return Jan. 14 Icelandic Airlines Call 1203 Call 1049 Call 1879 
on directories, tickets, and abortions 
Notre Dame community; this was photograph in their newspaper in 
a noble effort at "bringing home" their newspaper whn you can put the serious problem of abortion the real thing on their lunch plate? and the rights of the unborn. If you wish to proceed with plans 
But if that campaign was not for this project, I would be glad to entirely successful, perhaps it was assist as project chairman, at­because you employed a too subtle tending to such details as method. And so I wish to present to procuring the feti and obtaining 

Observer 
ads 

pay off! 

you my idea for another approach, recipes as to how these feti can one which would perhaps best be boiled, deep-fried, bar­dramatize the situation a bit more becued, etc. 
THE ROMA 
effectively. My idea is really along I feel this project is very much 
welcomes ND-SMC
the same lines as your "atrocity in the true spirit of the Knights of photos" of last year, but only Columbus, and I hope you will 
Students

slightly more graphic. consider it carefully. My idea, basically, is that the Gentlemen, I shall await your 
Your Host 

Knights of Columbus sponsor a reply. 
Ted Kerinspecial "Fetus Fry" some lunch 

Frank Anastasio
702 Flannerhour in the dining halls, where students would be served actual 

Bring back the old 
Delicious Italian

aborted fetuses for lunch. Feti are actually a great delicacy --they are said to be very tender --and, 
Food & Pizza

Editor: 
for variety., you could present them .under such names as Baby 
Last year it was Abortion Clinic 

Burgers, Filet of Fetus, or, for the Classified ads. 
Liquor

more squeamish, simply 
Two weeks ago it was a plea for 

Scrambled "Egg". You could 
Dancing to the sophisticatecl
Birth Control Clinics on Campus.
distribute Right to Life literature 
Jazz-Rock sounds of the Bitt
Tonight it's a plea <Observer 2 
Nicks Trio

at the doors, and you could place 
Nov. All Souls Day) for the 
on each person's plate, right next Homosexuals on Campus. 
Open until 4:00 A.M. on
to the fetus, a small card with such 
Cheer, Cheer for Old Notre 
Weekends.

printed messages as "This iis Betty Dame! 
Friedan's Favorite Dish," or 
Rev. Edmund Murray C. S.C.
maybe "If it Wasn't For the Pope ­
FOR DELIVERIES 

-This Could Have Been You!!". Only signed typewritten letters to Every day, as you well know, the editor will be considered for 
CALL 234-3258 

thousands of feti are discarded by publication. Names will be hospitals which perform the withheld upon request. Mail let­
219 N. MICHIGAN 
barbaric practice of abortion; ters to The Observer, Box Q, Notre 
Avenue (next

since these aborted young lives are Dame, Ind. 46556, or bring them to usually treated as garbage, I am the office on the third floor of 
to Morris Civic) 

sure that an adequate supply of LaFortune. Priority will be given 
Downtown

these fetuses could be purchased at to shorter letters. We reserve the very little cost to the K of C. And right to edit letters to meet space 
South Bend. 

any expenses would be more than requirements. ed. justified by the tremendous educational value which this ex­perience would have for th'e Notre Dame community. 
What better way than this of forcing Notre Dame students to the realization of the horror of abor­tion? What better way to teach them the value of human life? Indeed, why put a mere 
"Craig Kapson" or Lois Tranter 
Jordan Motors 
-


Friday, November 10, 1972 the observer 





pre-colunbian exhibit set for sunday 
STAMP SHOW, BOURSE 


A dual exhibition of pre-Columbian sculpture, pottery and textiles, featuring rare Peruvian objects, and the graphic works of German artist Ludwig Meidner will open in the University of Notre Dame's Art Gallery on Sunday, November 12. Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C., director of the O'Shaughnessy Hall gallery, said the latter display would be the first full exhibition of the 20th Century expressionist in this 
country. 
The Peruvian display will feature a rare 9th Century hand-woven poncho and 11 remarkably colored textiles from several 
South American provinces which were recently presented to Notre Dame by Mrs. Everett McNear of Chicago. 
D. Thomas Bergen, an American now residing in London, is lending his im­pressive Meidner collection to Notre Dame for the second display. Several of the artist's small prints were shown at Notre Dame several years ago in a major expressionist 
exhibition. 
Two lectures have been arranged by the gallery in connection with the exhibits. Dr. Carl W. O'Neill, assistant professor of an­
thropology at Notre Dame, will speak on "Art in the Pre-Columbian Meso-American Context" at 2 p.m. November 12, and Dr. Bruno Schlesinger, director of the Humanistic Studies program at Saint Mary's College, will speak on the Meidner displays at a date to be announced. 
The Notre Dame gallery is open weekdays from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and from 1 to 5 p.m. on weekends. 
Recardin'=ls 
phoenix: gfr's getting there 

jDSephabell 
The first thing that becomes apparent to the Grand Funk addict is this is not the Funk that did the E Pluribus Funk album by the same token as the Funk that did "I'm Your Captain" was not the same one that did the first two albums. This new Funk is one that's been exposed to a few new influences (a result from being in Nashville, home of the gueeetar-pickers, perhaps?), and has come to the conclusion that there's only so much you can do with a basic guitar-bass­drums-screaming format. 
So what comes of this? The addition of a few new instruments, like keyboards ala Craig Frost (a direction hinted at in "Footstomping Music") and a bit of fiddle courtesy of Doug Kershaw. ­
And viola! A new sound! A smoother, more consistent sound through organ background and a refreshing sound through the mere addition of other kinds of musical noises. 
Ah, but the big question is, does it make GFR any better? Is this a real development and does the group progress at all? I'm sad to say it doesn't. 
Granted, there's little of the old screaming the old battle between lead vocal and' bass guitar to see which will sound worse. There's little of the old raving and ranting in lyrics and lead guitar. That much they've tried to improve and change. 
But they've replaced the old frenzy with something that's almost worse: mediocrity. 
No more is the Grand Funk Railroad that gets SRO crowds because of the sheer ex­citement in their act <I always have hesitated to call it music). GFR has sunk to the level of "just another rock band." 
The name of the album is Pheonix. I 
IIIOIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIHIIUIIRHIIIIIDIIUIJ 
Phoenix 

Grand Funk Railroad 
Capitol SMAS 11099 
$5.98 list 

IIIUUIOIUWIIIIW-UIIDDIIIUWUIIIIDUIUIIIUII 
guess that's supposed to symbolize the raising of the new sound from the old. Would have been better to have the old bird back, for there's nothing special, nothing distinctive. 
Some hope is there, however;--·hope that raises more hope since its' at the very start of the LP. "Flight of the Pheonix" is an instrumental that's one of the more imagnative bits from Grand Funk. It's something wholly new. A bit of bluegrass­influenced, the song surprises and makes one look twice at the jacket to make sure GFR really did all the songs on the record. 
But then one eagerly waits for the next song, and is promptly disappointed. What kind of a shaft is this? 
And that's what it's like for the rest of the album. Nothing measures up to the first cut, and the listener feels almost cheated. It's not the old Grand Funk; it's not even good new Grand Funk. The old screaming has been replaced by a softer vocal that proves that Mark Farner never really had a great voice, Mel Sharer's bass has been turned down so you can actually hear how poor Don Brewer's drumming really is, and not even Frost's keyboardwork can save a couple of badly-written songs. 

But my outlook for Grand Funk is op­timistic. They seem to want to break away from the pure-beat nature of the old music an, occasionally, they pull it off. 
When they can come through with goodies like "I'm Your Captain," "Loneliness," and "Flight of the Pheonix," I'll keep up my hope. 
They've got a long way to go, but they've covered more ground with this album than I thought possible. For sure I'll be looking for the next one. Thanx for the use of your album, Dave, and keep up your addiction. 
AND AUCTION sponsored by THE NORTHERN INDIANA PHILATELIC SOCIETY SUNDAY NOV. 12, 1972 11 A.M. -5:30 P.M. V.F.W. POST 360 1307 E. JEFFERSON BLVD. 
MISHAWAKA, IND. 
IT'S TIME YOU






HERD 
Big news in big eating. Great steaks and little old prices. Round-up the gang. Herd the family. 
We want EVERYONE to enjoy steak! 

PONDEROSA 

STEAK HOUSE 
52627 U.S. 31 N. 
and 
Town & Country 
Shopping Ctr. 

PRICES! 
Mon. -Thurs.: $1.00 Weedends: $1.50 
Why pay more? 
This week ... 
I. Two "Marx Bros." Flicks 
II. "Last of the Red Hot 
Lovers''  
.  101' C£11TEl COIPlU  I  
I  MISIIAWAU. IND.  2_5~-~~7~ -­ 


CAC 
Cinema '73 
Presents 

Renoir /Hitchcock 
Nov 12-13 "Rules of the Game"·Renior Nov. 14-15 "Shadow of a Doubt"·Hitchcock Eng. Aud. 8-10 $1 PATRONS FREE 
Services Commission Presents
NYs Pollard 
is appointed 

·chicago-London· Chicago 
cancer advisor 

Dr. Morris Pollard, director of the University of Notre Dame's Lobund Laboratory, has been appointed an advisor for the National colon Cancer Program in the area of carcinogenesis. 
Headquartered in Houston, the national organization aims to develop a series of key scientific approaches to the problem of colon cancer, a disease which has an annual incidence of about 75,000 cases and a mortality rate of almost 46,000. 
$180--COMPLETE 

Leave May 21 Return June 8 
OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS, FACULTY & IM~ MEDIATE FAMILY OF ND-SMC Sign-ups NOW Travel Bureau 12-1 
S. U. Ticket Office 
FIRST COME FIRST SERVE 

j 
the observer Friday, November 10, 1972 


Campus Roundup 
Kellogg study released 
How can the latest research results be integrated quickly and responsibly by the practicing professional? A report released here as part of a nation-wide study on continuing education and the future calls solution to the problem essential to "reversing the deteriorating quality of our life." 
The four-pronged study of continuing education is supported by a grant from the Kellogg Foundation, chaired by the Rev. Th('odore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. president of the University of Notre Dame, and located at Notre Dam(''s Center for Continuing Education. With reports on the university, public affairs and social responsibility, the report on "Continuing Education and New Knowlt>dge" will be published as a volume in the spring. 
As a means of encouraging professionals in the field to keep up with new knowledge and t£'chniques, the task force stated that both· government licensing and individual motivation present drawbacks. 
Knowledgt" may be suppressed 

Government control through lic£'nsing can actually serve to suppress new knowledge, they said. and indicates an emphasis on ''lT('dentialing" rather than the more basic issue of continuing Pducation. 
Individual motivation, on the other hand. tends to be a"willy-nilly affair." the report continued, and "observation of the real world leads one to the conclusion that ideal professionals are too few." 
Two organizations currently making extensive contributions to the continuing education of professionals are professional and technical societies, and "com­panies" which employ numbers of professional technologists, ac­eording to the report. The task force called developments in professional societies "some of the soundest and most exciting," and added that they are generally attractive to professionals since they are "non-coercive and thus relatively non-threatening." 
Groups show greater concern 

Groups of professionals, either in group practices or hired by large organizations seem to exhibit greater concern for continuing education than individuals, the report added. Large corporations in particular often provide tuition and salary benefits for their em­ployees returning to school, both through social interest and the recognition of financial return through improved performance. 
The report concluded with the recommendation that more research be devoted to studying the interrelationships of professionals, and exploring new groups or sub-groups of skilled people who might also participate in translating new knowledge into eommunity services. 
Members of the task-force in­

elude Dr. Alexander M.Schmidt, 
chairman, dean of the Abraham 
Lincoln School of Medicine at the 
University of Illinois; Miss Cecelia 
Conrath, of the Continuing 
Education and Training Branch of the Regional Medical Program Service; W. Phil Herriott of the Education and Training Center for United Airlines; Lloyd N. Morrisett, president of the John & Mary Markle Foundation, and Dr. John W. Reed, director of the Institute of Continuing Legal Education at the University of Michigan. 
ND receives $146,359 
The University of Notre Dame 
has accepted awards totaling 
$146,359 for the month of October to 
support individual faculty projects 
in research, educational programs 
and new facilities and equipment, 
according to Dr. Robert E. Gordon, 
vice president for advanced 
studies. 
Awards for research totaled 
$140,333 and included: 
--$48,897 from the National In­
stitutes for health for research on 
"Response of Gnotobiotes to 
Specified Microbial Flora" by Dr. 
Morris Wagner, professor of 
microbiology. 
--$34,500 from the National 
Aeronautics and Space ad­
ministration for "Convolutional 
Coding Techniques for Data 
Protection" .by Dr. James L. 
Massey. Frank W. Freimann 
professor of electrical engineering. 
--$22,480 from Telecom­
munication Industries, Inc. for a 
study on the "Virucidal Effects of 
Ozone" by Dr. Morris Pollard, 
professor of microbiology. 
--$22,000 from TTl for an 
evaluation of wastewater treat­
mPnt apparatus in the College of 
Engineering. 
--$5,000 from the U.S. Air Force 
for an evaluation of powered para­
foil by Dr. John D. Nicolaides, 
professor of aerospace and 
mechanical engineering. 
--$2,000 from NASA for a study of 
"Smoke Flow Visualization of 
Ht'licopter Rotor" by Nicolaides 
and Charles W. Ingram, assistant 
professor of aerospace and 
meChanical engineering. 
--$1,956 from the U.S. Depart­
ment of Commerce for a tornado 
field study program headed by Dr. 
Bruce J. Morgan, assistant 
professor of civil engineering. 
--$1,750 from the Indiana Ladies Auxiliary of the Veterans of Foreign Wars for cancer research in the Lobund Laboratory. 
--$1,750 from the National Wildlife Federation as a fellowship in the Department of Civil Engineering. Awards for educational programs totaled $4,026 and in­
cluded: 
--$3,726 from the Indiana 
Criminal Justice and Planning 
Agency for the prlsecution in­
ternship program in the Law 
School. 
--$300 from the Damon Foun­
dation, Inc. for a lecture program 
in the department of microbiology. 
Myths and realities 
Dr. Robert W. Johnson, professor of industrial ad­ministration at Purdue University, 

will discuss "Consumer Protection 
in Consumer Credit: Myths and 
the Reali ties" in a Cardinal 
O'Hara Memorial Lecture ap­
pearance at 3:30 p.m. Wednesday 
(Nov. 15) in the University of 
Notre Dame's Memorial Library 
Auditorium. 

Johnson has served since 1969 as 
a presidential appointee to the 
National Commission on Con­
sumer Finance. Earlier, he served 
as reporter-economist for the 
National Conference of Com­
missioners on Uniform State Laws 
and as economist with the Federal 
Reserve Board. 

The speaker attended Oberlin 
College, Harvard Business School 
and Northwestern University. At 
Purdue since 1964, he has also 
served on the faculty of Michigan 
State University, University of 
Buffalo and Southwestern 
University at Memphis. 

Johnson is the author of 
"Financial Management," 
"Methods of Stating Consumer 
Finance Charges" and "Self­
Correcting Problems in Finance." 
He is also the author of several 
articles on consumer credit and 
financial management for national 
magazines. 

The Cardinal O'Hara series 
honors the first dean of Notre 
Dame's College of Business Ad­
ministration and annually brings 
to the campus noted authorities in 
the fields of education, business 
and industry. 

Kuehnelt-Leddihn 
Dr. Erik von Kuehnelt-Leddihn, 
writer and world traveler, will 
discuss "The Church in an Age of 
Confusion" at 8 p.m. Monday 
(Nov. 20) at a program sponsored 
by the University of Notre Dame 
Academic Commission in the 
Memorial Library Auditorium. 

The native of Austria is a former professor of history, teaching both in the United States and Europe. He describes his main activity today as striving for a better un­derstanding between English­speaking nations and the European continent. 
Dr. von Kuehnelt-Leddihn is the author of "The Menace of the Herd," "Liberty or Equality?," "Gates of Hell," "Night Over the East," and "Black Banners." He has also prepared articles for The Catholic World. Commonweal, Nt>w Scholasticism and presently is a regular contributor to National Ht>view. 
The author speaks with Catholi~ interests in presenting a com­prehensive view of the humanities. 
His studies in political theory have been largely directed toward finding ways to strengthen the Western tradition of human freedom. 
Scholars to meet 

The Middle West branch of the American Oriental Society and the Mid-West section of the Society of Biblical Literature will hold concurrent annual conventions in the University of Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education November 12-14. 
Ninety scholars from Canada, Great Britain and the United States will attend the convention to hear 36 reseclrch papers on Oriental subjects. John A. Brink­man of the University of Chicago's Oriental Institute is the presidency of the Oriental Society and Richard Henshaw of Colgate-Rochester Divinity School, Rochester, N.Y., is president of the Biblical Literature group. 
Following opening talks and registration Sunday night the delegates will attend a reception in the Notre Dame Art Gallery where a special display of Oriental art objects will be arranged. The Memorial Library has also prepared several special displays of rare books and manuscripts in conjunction with the meeting. 
Papers will be presented and discussed at small group sessions Monday before the President's Dinner at 6:30 p.m. in the Morris Inn. 

· So-~th Bend's Newest 110¥2 N. Main THE RED DOOR CLUB BEER * WINE * LIQUOR Stop In! z Colfax Memberships Available ~ ANB :;· OPEN 1 1 am to 3om  
NOTRE DAME -SAINT MARY'S THEATRE presents SUMMER AND SMOKE Tennessee William's beautifully fragile drama of frustrated love Washington Hall Notre Dame campus Nov. 10, 11, 16, 17, 18 ata:JO pm Students $1.50 Phone Reservations 284-4176  
COFFEEHOUSE with Suck & JohnPete Snake Bob Thomas &Bill & Jack Mike Walke FRI. NOV. 10 9-1 am Adm. 50' RATHSKELLAR (basement of La Fortune)  
BUSES TO O'HARE FOR THANKSGIVING Leave Circle Wed. 11/22 at 1:30 Friday last day for sign ups at Travel Bureau  


Jim class of '63
WATCH EACH WEEK FOR 
Chuck class of '65
NEW SPECIALS 
proprietors

-Special­$1 ..75 Beer Mugs for $1.50 -show Student I.D. for specials
liquor Store 1723 So. Bend Ave. EARLY TIMES -$5.30 a fifth 
Phone 272-9800 

KESSLER $4.45 a fifth TVARSKI VODKA 1/2 gallon-$9.20 
4i 

*We have 9 Brands of Tequilla
> 
<( 
z 

BEER · LIQUORS · WINES · PARTY SUPPLIES · ICE Case Discounts -Liquor & Wine 


--~~--~~-----­
Friday, November 10, 1972 the observer 
11 

ND icers ailing for WCHA opener 
by Stan Urankar 

Coach Charles "Lefty" Smith's Notre Dame hockey team ·viii open their 1972-73 WCHA season tonight at the Athletic and Convocation ('enter. The Irish icers face the University of Michigan in a two­game stint, worth four points in the conference standings. 
The Wolverines began their WC'HA schedule last weekend against North Dakota, and the series Pnded in a split, with Michigan winning the opener, 10-7, while the Fighting Sioux bounced back to take a 6-0 verdict on Saturday. Smith. whose squad broke even in a non-conference series with Bowling Green, was in Ann Arbor for the second game. 
"Michigan has a lot of young kids on defense, but they're a 
IH playoffs 
open Sunday 
Interhall football playoff action begins this Sunday afternoon with a pair of semifinal games. Defending champion Dillon, yet to be scored on this season, will face Morrissey in a rematch of last year's championship game, while Stanford and Breen-Phillips, co­champions in League Three season play. are slated 'for Sunday af­ternoon, November 19, in the Stadium. 
The Big Red have just about everything a campus team could want. Senior Randy Stasik is an experienced signal-caller and an excellent passer. Halfbacks Craig Tigh and Bob Walls are tiny speed burners who can fly around the corners, while Jack Likata counters with hard-running up-the­middle and superb blocking. Bill Hoy rates as the best split end in Interhall, and Jim Cannon and Homer Cunningham anchor a solid offensive line that has opened holes for 142 points in five games. 
The defense ir just as strong, allowing only nme first downs (threE' by penalties) and unscored on in league games. Animal Cunningham is the top man on the defensive line, with linebackers Ed Carney and Tiger Ryan and deepbacks Mark Brammer, Mike O'Neill, and Paul Michaels adding solid support. 
Morrissey returns almost all of their runner-up squad, but has not looked as sharp as in the past. Kirk Miller is still a master of the triple option offense, and Joe Holzmer and Paul Breen are competent runners. Tackles Ken Gillig and Craig Fowler have recovered from injuries and are, Pxpected to be ready for Dillon, while linebacker Time McCalley leads a better-than-average defense. 
The North Quad match-up has a perennially tough B-P club facing surpri::;ing Stanford, Jeff Burda has thrown four touchdown passes for B-P and leads the offense, with captain Mike Hansen one of the top linemen. 
Stanford relies on the passing of quarterback George Packer and the receiving of end Mike Pohlman on offense, with that combination producing two of their three scores this year. 
Both games are slated to be played at the Astroturf practice field. Breen-Phillips, a 14-0 winner over Stanford in their previous meeting of the season, will take on their fellow North Quadders at 1 p.m., with the Dillon-Morrissey game following at 2. 

Journal of Accountancy Becker CPA Review Course 
INDIANAPOLIS (317) 547-9971 

physical club, and they like to knock people down," commented the Irish coach, presently in his ·fifth year at the helm. "They've got iiln overall young team, so we'll try and get after them quickly." 
The Wolverines· lost three-year netminder Karl Bagnell through graduation, along with a trio of rPgular defensemen <"Punch" Cartier, Jerry Lefebvre, and Brian Skinner). Veteran coach AI HPnfrew 05 years and a 217-180-10 record at Michigan l has replaced Bagnell with a 5-5 freshman named Robbie Moore. 
"Moore's pretty tough on low shots, but he seems to have problems with the high ones," Smith notes."He looks like a real cocky kid, the kind the Fanatics will go after." 
Ace playmaker Michel Jarry returns <36 assists), along with· lettermen Paul Andre Paris, Bob Falconer, and Julian Nixon. "If these men can score consistently, and we get help from some highly regarded ·freshmen, we could have a strong squad," says Henfrew. 
Defenseman Pete Dunbar, a Fanatic favorite, will miss the series with a broken foot suffered against North Dakota. Captain Hick Mallette is also doubtful, and 
WCHA Standings 
1\' L Pts. GF G.\ Yichigan Tech ...........! 0 4 II ,8 :llorth Dakota .. __ . __ .. _.I 1 2 13 9 Wisconsin __ .. _.. ____ ... __ I I 2 II 10 
Colorado College. . . _... 1 1 2 10 11 ~ichigan ......... _......I I 2 9 13 :-.;otre Dame_ ..... __ .. ___ 0 0 0 0 o 
Den\'er -----------..... 0 0 0 0 0 }finnl'sota 0 o 0 0 0 \lichigan Stale. . 0 o 0 0 0 Minn.-Duluth ._. __ .0 0 8 11 
FRIDAY 
WCHA 
Colorado College 10, Wisconsirfti ~lichigan 9. North Dakota 7 Michigan Tech 6, Minnesota-Duluth 4 
OTHERS Bowling Green 9, Notre Dame 5 Ohio Slate 7. Michigan State 6 Minnl'sota 4, Manitoba I 
S.\Tl'RDA\' RESUTS Sorth Dakota 6. llichigan ~ Wisconsin 3. Colerado Colll'gl' o Mich1gan Tech 3. llinn ·Duluth~ (oil Oh1o Statl' 6. llichigan State ~ llinnesota 6. llanitoba 2 

St:SD.\\' RESt:LT ·:-.;otre Dame 9. Bowling Grl'en 3 
1\'EEKESD SERIES llichigan State at llinn.·Duluth llinnesota at Dem·er Colorado College at :'\orth Dakota Michigan at Xotre Dame Colgatl' at Wisconsin Watt'rloo at llichigan Tl'ch 
Irish Statistics 
P11yer Gms G A Pli P·M Regan, c ._2 3 5 8 0-0 Bumbacco. w ..! 4 4 8 0-0 Williams. w .... _.. _ .. 2 5 2 7 3-6 Curry, d .. 2 0 4 4 2-4 Green, d .. _.. _..... _.. 2 o 3 3 ~ Syrop, d .... _.. _...... 2 0 3 3 3-6 Schaler,d .............2 I 0 I 3-6 Maison, w .. .. .. --....2 I 0 I 0-0 Steinbom.d. _ ......2 o I I 0-0 

·conroy,c ............2 o 1 1 1·5 CUnha. c ...... _.... _.. 2 0 I I 1·2 Keating. w _____ .. _____ 2 o 0 0 1·2 
Larson. d ............. 2 0 0 0 1·2 Dunphy. w ------------2 0 0 0 2-4 DeLorenzi. w..........2 0 0 0 3-9 151'aelson, w _....... _.I 0 0 0 0-0 
Bonk. d_·______________ 2 0 0 0 0-0 Tardani, _w __________ .. 1 o 0 o 0-0 N.D. Totals .. _......... 2 14 24 38 20-46 Opponent Totals _.. __ .. 2 12 22 34 21-42 Goaltenders Gms GA Avg. Saves Kronholm .. _............ _I 3 3.0 30 Catchart ................. ! 9 9.0 34, Solre Darnl' Totals .. _... 2 12 6.0 64 Opponent Totals .. ____ .__ 2 14 7.0 67 
'Power Play Goals-NO 8of 14,-57.1%: Opponents 6 of 13. 46.2%. Shorthandt'd Goals-NO 2; Opponents 
Renfrew will have to juggle his lines. 
The Irish, in turn,will be without the services of Larry Israelson for the weekend. The junior winger suffered a severe charley horse in the fjrst Bowling Green contest and is still limping. "I'd much rather have him sit out this weekend," says Smith. "His is the type of injury where an aggravation could be of permanent damage." 
Senior John Noble will be out of action also. N.D.'s all-time leading scorer has been suffering from a bruised knee. 
Wing Ray DeLorenzi will watch Friday's game from the sidelines, due to the game misconduct penalty he received Sunday against the "alcons. Smith will use Rick Schafer to fill in on wing with Mike Dunphy and Pat Conroy, then put Schafer back on defense with 
·Les Larson Saturday night. "We'll use mostly five defensemen <Larson, Bill Green, Mark Steinborn, Bill Nyrop, and Steve Curry) tonight, with freshman Pat Novitzki also dressing to help in 
man-short  situations,"  said  the  
Irish coach.  
Smith will  then  return  to  his  

fiveman units tomorrow. Paul Regan's line (Eddie Bumbacco and Ian William at the wings) will work with Nyrop and Curry, Dunphy, Onroy, and DeLorenzi will be paired with Green and Steinborn, and the third line of Ricky Cunha, Cliff Maison, and D' Arcy Keating will skate with Larson and Schafer. 
The first line has already combined for 23 points after the opening series. Williams leads all scorers with five, and Regan is the top playmaker with fiVe. 
Game time for both nights is 7:30 pm, and student tickets are available for $1.00. 

tACADEMV ~·~ ~~ 
Best Costume Design 

Nicholas 
•nd 


Alexandra 
AHORIZON FILM from C'OLUMBIA PICTURES Scna,ioy ..JAil[!-~· Dindellr FIAlllUN J_ SCBAFFMEI .........SAISPIEl;Et ~­
Call for times & Directions 



Deadline for all classified ads is 
I 
1:00 pm the day before publication. All ads must be placed in person, and must be prepaid. 
r WANTED 
I Wanted -ride to Detroit Friday Nov. 10. Call Tony 1422. 
Need ride to Baltimore for Thanksgiving_ Prefer to leave 11­17 if possible. Call Steve 6798. 
K.C. Riders needed to Kansas City this weekend. Leave Thurs. nile or Friday. Call 4556. 
TYPISTS needed to volunteer their help during the Red Cross Blood Drive Nov. 30 and Dec. 1. Please call Pete, 3412. 
2 Miami G.A. needed, call 234­6267. 
Need 6 tickets for Miami game. Need not be together. Call John 1605. 
Miami general ad. tix -Any amount wanted, any needed Please help! Mike 7053. 
Need 4 gen ad tix to Miami, call 6701. 
4 Miami G.A. tix: ride home to Cleveland: John 8786. 
Need ride -Minneapolis for Turkey, can leave Tues. noon. Call K. Graham, 234-6397 after 6. 
Want a few bucks for that busted old lightweight 3-speed bike you were going to throw away or abandon? Call or write Chris 8241; 308 Howard. 
Ride needed to Kansas City at Thanksgiving -George 7861. 
Need rides at Thanksgiving to 
D.C. area. for 3 girls. Will share expenses. Marianne 4197. 
Need riders to Minneapolis on Mon Nov. 20th, call 3377. 
Wanted: ND jacket. medium. Gil 1061. 
Need Thanksgiving ride to Buf­falo will share expenses & driving, call Mark 1782. 
Desperately need ride West for Thanksgiving. !to NMl. Can leave 17th. Will share expenses, George 7965. 
Girl desires ride to Peoria, Illinois Sunday Nov. 19, call 6865. 
Wanted Ride: to Boston or anywhere in Vermont on either Friday or Saturday Nov. 17 or 18. Will help share expenses. Call 234-4547 after 7:30 P.M. 
PERSONALS 

Dear Steve from Cleveland 
Please stay at N D 
Love, 
Anne, Bonnie, Judy, & Kate 
Waiting M.T., call Mark at 272­8189 or Gary at 8243. 
To the terror of Carondelet: What ever happened to Baby Jane? You're not getting older you're getting better. Have a fun Sunday. 
Happy Anniversary, Robin, with rnany more to come. With love. Terry • 
FOR SALE 

Acoustic 270 amp, 271-272 cabinets. $1400-best offer. 8029. 
62 Ford very good condition, best offer. 234-9765 after 5 pm. 
'69 WV, semi-automatic, AM-FM radio, excellent condition. $1450. Call Steve after 5:00, 234-3389. 
Nikon lenses for sale: 28 MM. 
F3.5 automatic $115; 135 Vivital automatic $55. 272-1428. 
Stereo components for sale: Dynaco Pat-4 pre-amplifier and Marantz_power amplifier; only $185; 272-1428. 
For Sale: Miami student ticket. Gil 1061. 
Ticket for Air Force game for sale: Call Pat 1213. 
Amplg B-25-Amp 2-15 in. speakers 250 watts $300, Rich 3504. 
NOTICES 

Typing Experience in disser­tations, essays, theses, term papers, etc. Arlene Spitz. ph. 232­9061. 
Future CPA's learn how to prepare for the CPA exam. 
Becker CPA review course. Call collect Indianapolis 317-547-9971. 
Youngstown Club -there will be a meeting Monday nile -usual time at the circle. 
Help the helpless unborn, with timl', money, or both. R:ght-to Life, Inc. 233-4295. 
Attention ND students Need 1110ney for Thanksgiving vacation? Borrow from Morrissey Loan Fund 11:15-12:15 Monday-Friday. Basement of LaFortune. 
Corning soon to a theater near you: CHEECH AND CHONG! 
LOST AND FOL1ND 

Reward -keys lost Sat. between Cavanaugh and the Bookstore, 1369. 
"Lost" brown leather purse Please return glasses -Can't see, 289-1963. 
Words Ida 2da 3d~ 4da 5da l-10 .65 .95 1.15-1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.LG 5.90 1.10 8.21! 46-50 3.55 5.• 6.50 7.80 8.95 
-
""' 
-~-~~----------------------------------------------~ 
1 2 the observer Fridav. November 10, 1972 
Offenses ready for ND-Falcon tilt 
But their scoring string is not the
by Vic Dorr 
only mark the Irish will be in­The U.S. Air Force Academy has terested in protecting. Notrebeen established since 1954, and Dame has a two-game win streakduring its 18-year existence the to continue, and in Air Force willservice school has never been be facing one of their toughest tests known as much of an en­of the season.

tertainment center. 

"Air Force has the potential to But that reputation may change be one of the more explosive teams in a hurry tomorrow afternoon. in the country," said ND head 
For the Falcons, by scheduling coach Ara Parseghian. "Just two Notre Dame for their 1972 weeks ago they scored 39 points at homecoming, have arranged-­Arizona State and now they're possibly--one of the biggest of­coming off a disappointing loss. 
fensive shows of the current grid This should make them 
season. emotionally ready. "They're very dangerous," he
The host Falcons are 6-2 on the continues, "and they've moved the 
season, and were nationally They have 
ball against everyone.

ranked until last weekend's 17-14 an excellent passing game and upset at the hands of Army. They Navy proved we need a lot of work are averaging over 400 yards of on pass defense."
total offense per game. and boast The Falcon pass attack which so an air attack that has already concerns the Irish coaches in ledlogged 18 touchdowns. Notre by junior quarterback RichDam('. on the other hand, operates Haynie. The Air Force signal­from a ground-oriented attack that caller has thrown for 17 touch­has accounted for nearly 2500 downs already this season, and his 
:vards in five games, and the Irish­yardage is over
total aerial thewho are 6-1 and rated 12th in the 1400-yard mark. Flanker Franknation--are averaging 463 total Murphy (27 receptions, sevenyards per game. Both teams also TD'sl, split end Bob Farr (eighthave offensive streaks riding on r£'ceptions, four touchdowns) andtomorrow's game. Air Force has tailback Joel Carlson <12 catches,scored in 50 straight games (dating one TD l make up the other end ofback through the 1968 season) and th£' Falcon air game.

the Irish have scored in 69 straight Arademv coach Ben Martin hasohrough the 1966 campaign.) 
always stressed the passing game, 




The Irish Eye 
·····································································=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·Footba II p1·cks
.•.•.•.•.·.······································································ .. ······· 
Just one week from tomorrow the major bowls can extend bids to most of the teams they'd like to have participate in the annual New Year's Day extravaganzas and, as usual, the bowl picture is up in the air right now. No one knows just which team is going where to play whom. And ; as usual, it appears that the all-important question of exactly who is "number one" won't be resolved until the first evening of 1973, making the bowl games that much more important. 
The picture might clear up a little bit this weekend, however. Two of the nation's top-rated ball clubs and contenders for major bowl berths, Alabama and Louisiana State, clash this weekend in Birmingham, Ala., in what promises to be one of the best games of the 1972 season. "Bear" Bryant's Crimson Tide will bring an 8-0 record into Saturday's game while the Tigers are 7-0 on the year. The winner of that meeting of unbeaten powers would seem to have the inside track on the Southeastern Conference title and a good shot at a spot in the Orange Bowl.
-
There are no other critical encounters on tap this weekend but there are a number of "interesting" games scheduled. Upset-minded Air Force will host Notre Dame in what may become a high-scoring, see-saw affair. Washington, coming to the end of a disappointing season, will seek to spoil UCLA's ·hopes for the Pacific Eight crown in Seattle. Perm State will have to fight off the dangerous Wolfpack of North Carolina. State to retain its supremacy in the East while Florida and Georgia meet 
I 
~ in what shapes up as a nip-and-tuck affair in Jacksonville. And, in the Big Ten, Michigan State would love to upset Ohio State for departing coach Duffy Daugherty, so don't go to sleep Saturday afternoon. Here are this week's selections: 
Notre Dame over Air Force-The Falcons' passing game could give the 
Irish trouble, but it'll be easier for Notre Dame to stop the flyboys' aerial attack than for Air Force to prevent the high-powered Irish offense from scoring points. 
Nebraska over Iowa State -The 'Huskers may not lose again this year, or on January 1st of next year, either. Georgia Tech over Boston College-The Yellowjackets ought to sting the Eagles. Navy over Pitt-The Middies should be able to score on the vulnerable Panthers. Texas over Baylor -The Longhorns are headed for yet another Cotton Bowl. 
Ohio State over Michigan State-Woody Hayes isn't about to let Duffy Daugherty emerge victorious in what will probably be the last meeting between those two coaching greats. 
UCLA over Washington -Like father , like son. Another Harmon, Tom's son Mark, is working miracles in the collegiate football world. Florida over Georgia -The Seminoles have played fine ball in recent weeks. Penn State over North Carolina State-The Nittany Lions may have trouble chewing up the Wolfpack . 
• Purdue over Wisconsin -The Boilermakers' Big Ten title hopes are dim but Bob DeMoss must get his team "up" or find himself "out". Boiler­maker fans had a right to expect more than a .500 season. 
Illinois over Indiana -Two in a row for the Illini, after seven con­secutive losses. Oklahoma over Missouri -There aren't any more upsets left in the Tiger's lair. Alabama over LSU -The Tide rates a slim edge in one of the great games of the year. 
Tampa over Miami (Fla.) -If the Hurricanes could get a few "fifth downs", like they did against Tulane, they might pull this one out. Neither possibility is likely. 
Upset of the week: Army over Syracuse -If the Cadets can play as well as they did last 
week, they can win this one. Last Week: 12 of 15-.800 Season's Pet.: 99 of 135-.733 Stan Urankar's Interhall Picks: Dillon over Morrissey 
Breen-Phillips over Stanford but this year he has ground attack of almost equal caliber. Tailback Carlson, who has gained 601 yards through eight games, heads a corps of ball carriers that includes fullback Bill Berry (who is averaging 4.5 yards acarry)and halfback Mike Mark (also averaging 4.5 yards a try.) 
The offensive line is anchored by 6-3, 224-pound center Orderia Mitchell. A native of Elkhart, Indiana, Mitchell is a Aeading candidate for All-American honors at his pivot position this fall. 
Defensively, the Falcons will try to stop NO's high-powered attack with a quick, medium-sized team. End Gene Ogilvie (6-4, 226) cap­tains a defensive team that has been scored on heavily in only one game. Arizona State's Sun Devils scored 31 points on the Falcon "D", but still came out on the short £'nd of a 39-31 decision. 
Ogilvie is one of five seniors in the defensive lineup-guard Mark Prill <6-1, 195), tackle George Machovina (6-1,225), end Bob Homburg (6-0, 196) and linebacker Jerry Olin (6-3, 203) are the others­-and five of the remaining six starters are juniors. Freshman linebacker Bill Linnenkohl, who made his first start of the :season last week against Army, rounds out the Air Force defense. 
Falcon coach Terry Isaacson scouted the Irish last week in their game against Navy, and he left Philadelphia's Veterans Stadium impressed by what he saw-­Pspecially in the first half. 
"Notre Dame is the best football team we will face to date," he said. "They are big and fast andl have good balance both on offense and dl'fense. They have one of the best running attacks in the nation but they can also beat you with the pass. Traditionally they are always strong defensively and this ~;ear's team is no exception." 
Injuries have hurt Notre Dame's depth during the past several weeks, but NO's head coach ex­pects several of his offensive performers to be back in action for the contest with the Falcons. 
"Injuries are always a part of the game," said Parseghian, "and a whole rash of them have hit us­especially in the last week and the week before that. But right now it looks like we'll get <Darryll) Dewan back for the Air Force game, and Eric Penick (who suffered a mild shoulder bruise against Navy) should also be back." 
The Irish will leave for Colorado Springs following a mid-afternoon workout today, and, in ordler to lessen the effects of Colorado's high altitudes, will return to South Bmd as soon as possible after the game. 
"The high altitude will pose some problems to us," admitted Parseghian. "So we'll wait and go out at the last possible moment, and we'll have oxygen with us on the sidelines. But the altitude's not the problem that everyone thinks it is--especially not if you're well­conditioned." 
Kickoff for tomorrow's game is set for I :00 p.m. <MST>. 
Charity hoop 
game slated 
The Second Annual Student Charity Basketball game will be held Monday, Nov. 20 at 8:00pm. The game sponsored by Student Government will again be played in the ACC for the benefit of local needy families. 
Admission is fifty cents or a donation of a canned good. The game will be an intrasquad battle featuring the best talents of the Fighting Irish basketball team, coached by Digger Phelps. 
Last year the donations gathered at the game aided the Thanksgiving celebrations of over 200 families. People are still needed to trasport the donated goods after the game. Anyone Interested in helping distribute the donateri can goods can contact Muffet Foy (4028) or A! Sondej (8726). 
"AROUND HERE-WHEN IT RAINS; IT POURS." 

Mike Crean e y 11111m•mnmmnmummnmmm 
11mmtmnmmm1mmtmn•mnnm•m•m•A moment 

Times have changed. Parents no longer seem to admonish their off­
spring effectively with the all powerful (at least to my memory) 
"Because I told you so, that's why!" Football coaches no longer seem to 
command the campus situation and in fact, must often defend their 
philosophies and energies to a trying public and themselves. Players no 
longer seem enthused by words such as "Win one for the Gipper," and at 
times are hard pressed to understand their dualistic role of student­
athlete. But those who would attack us as preaching hostility or being 
trite hypocrites spewing outdated and irrelevant cliches, have missed the 
boat. 

We are an organization, a team, demanding unity in times when the 
trend is to the individual. We ask for higher ideals, team goals, the 
sacrifice of personal ones, ina moment when thislisn'tthe thing to do. We 
ask separate people to blend their separateness, and develop a body, a 
team, with as many emotions and feeling as any one individual. And the 
incredible thing, credible to the coaches and players and all involved, is 
that we've succeeded to a greater degree than I've experienced in my 
four years at Notre Dame. 

I don't feel dehumanized or set apart :from my fellow students, and may actually be a little luckier than they, for my realm of experience may be broader than theirs .I've seen both sides of the fence, the individual doing his own thing, and 22 individuals doing the team'sthing. I compete in the' classroom and enjoy socializing, but I know also the intense emotional, physical, and mental agony and ectasy of football at Notre Dame. Those who would criticize me for closing myself to the world, hiding in the discipline and rules .of training, just don't know what they're talking about, for they haven't walked even a step in my shoes. 
Sometimes, being Notre Dame isn't easy. We don't buy our guys stretch admissions, or wine and dine junior college All Americas. We're not super athletes, only athletes who have come to demand of themselves super effort and dedication . These help pe~tuate the traditions that are Notre Dame, traditions criticized as trite and outdated, but more alive today than certainly I ever knew. Why do teams aim at us? Why do they make their seasons by beating us? Somehow, knocking off Nebraska isn't quite the same as knocking off Notre Dame. The LSU game was more than a game to them, more than a revenge match or a feud. They didn't beat 11 players and coaches, they beat Notre Dame, and the ex­cellence with the school, on and off the field. They defended Southern pride and integrity; they showed the Northern Catholics who should've won the Civil War; they taught us how effective going to Mass before game is; they proved, at least to themselves, that their ways are better. And theirs is not the exception, but rather, the rule, because that's exactly how all our opponents a.pproach playing Notre Dame. I don't 'know the situation at any other school, but I do know this about Notre 
Dame: Athletes don't come here because of false promises or cars, they 
go to classes like everyone else, they take phys. ed. as a non-credit 
requirementand they graduate. And in spite of all these "drawbacks", 
we win. I guess that's a little tough for some to swallow. In spite of 
anything opponents can do, they can never be Notre Dame. They can 
never represent her glory, only try to steal some. They can't upset her 
traditions or her spirit, only attack them. They can win on the football 
field, but not in our hearts. For they can never beiNotreDame, her people, 
her traditions, her football, her life. 
This is the homestretch of the '72 season, and the autumn of my 
collegiate career. Three more times I'll put on a gold helmet and take the 
field for N.D. Three more times I can be part of a living tradition of 
people and excellence. Three more times I can be some one special to one 
kid or a thousand kids, because I play for Notre Dame. 
"There are little guys all eager to do anything you do. 
And all those who are dreaming of the day they'll be like you ..." 
Modern poets say look to your soul, and here's one jock who, having done so, would just quietly say "thanks." 












