j 
~ ~ 
j
Special Christmas Issue j 
On Tile !aside 
Editorials .•. pages 6,7,I Feature-s 
···~' 
Sports ... jNges 16,17,HI 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol: VII, No. 60 Friday, December 8, 1972 



the observer Friday, December 8, 1972 
Major South Bend project 
Model Cities: A civic revamping 
by Marty Miller Staff Reporter 
Many students at private institutions find it necessary to work in the real world during the surnmer months to make ends meet, and con­sequently, those students are rewarded with paychecks (usually quite meager) only to find that the Federal Government has snatched a large chunk. 
This first encounter with income tax causes hot flashes of anger and the oft asked question pops into mind, "What do 'they' do with all my money?" 
In point of fact, there is a federally funded program that makes use of that money right here in South Bend's near west side. 
The program is called Model Cities and was initiated in the area in 1969 It is a comprehensive plan-action program that should trigger complete sociological improvement in this underprivileged area. Many persons from the Notre Dame Community have become active in the program. 
Model Cities was created in 1966 when Congress passed the Demon­stration Cities and Metropolitan Act. The purpose of the program is to select certain cities throughout the United States to demonstrate social improvement in low income areas of the cities. 
The act provided additional financial and technical assistance to enable cities of all sizes to plan, develop, and carry out locally prepared programs. The programs were to be comprehensive and innovative an<1 would act as models for other cities to follow. The money for the project if provided by the Department of Housing and Urban Development. 
"In 1968 South Bend applied for the Model Cities Program only to be 
turned down by the City Council. In November of the same year we 
revised our plan and were approved," said Charles F. Lennon, the first 
director of South Bend's Model Cities Program. "South Bend is one of 146 
cities throughout the United States to be approved for the Program," he 
added. 

"There have been no homes built 
in the Model Cities Neighborhood 
since World War II" 
The South Bend Model Cities Program receives one and a half million dollars per year to be spent by the residents on innovative projects. The project was chartered to run for five years (unti11975). 
"The near west side of the City was chosen because it suffers from the most social and economic problems," said Lennon, "although the city's southeast and northeast districts were also considered." 
The Model Cities Neighborhood is one square mile in area. It is bounded by Lincolnway West on the north, Bendix Park on the east, the Penn Central Railroad tracks on the south, and Williams Street on the west. This constitutes one tenth of the city of South Bend. 
There are approximately 15,000 people living in the neighborhood and 62 percent are non-white. The median income of the Model Cities area is 6,590 dollars while in the entire city it is 10,231 dollars. One third of the neighborhood's families are welfare recipients. 
"Our ultimate goal is to take the Model Cities project and extend it city wide," declared Lennon, who has been promoted to Executive Director of Urban Planning and Development for the South Bend area. 
"It is a demonstration agency, and if their projects are worthwhile, the other areas of the city will put them to use," he added. 
The City Demonstration Agency, headed by the director of Model Cities, Hollis E. Hughs, Jr., is the paid professional staff that maintains the operations of the project. 
"As Director, I am directly responsible to the Mayor and the South Bend Common Council," said Hughs, the first black director of the Program. "I am also the link between the program and local, State and Federal Agencies." 
The Model Neighborhood Program depends on the ideas and assistance of the citizens. They list the Neighborhood's problems and they decide how the problems might be solved. The most important way for citizens to become involved is through the Model Neighborhood Planning Agency ( MNPA). The MNPA includes 60 percent elected Neighborhood residents <36 members) and 40 percent Mayor appointed citizens from other areas or the City (24 members). 
''The key to Model Cities is partnership planning between the professionals and the citizens of the area," declared Lennon. "And the MNPA has the final decision on how the money will be spent, and what projects will be adopted." 
"Our ultimate goal is to take the Model Cities project and extend it city wide" 
In order to preserve the comprehensive approach that was stipulated, the MNPA is divided into five subcommittees: Economic Development, Improved Education, Better Housing, Physical Improvement and Social Services. Each subgroup maintains the 60-40 ratio of neighborhood residents to city-wide appointees. 
Each of the MNPA subcommittees derive the priorities to be con­sidered from extensive discussion of problems and causes. The planning process starts with the problem statement reflecting the general con­dition as identified -by the committee. 
The objective is derived from the problem statement and indicates the goal the committee has set for dealing with the problem. Strategies are developed to eliminate the causes. Projects are based upon strategies and reflect the manner in which the strategy will be implemented. This planning process insures a logical progression in developing projects. 
Economic Development 
The two objectives of top priority within the committee on Economic Development are: the need for more and better jobs and the need for improved consumer and credit services. 
Residents of the Model Neighborhood suffer from an unemployment rate of 16 percent as compared to the city-wide 5.8 percent unem­ployment. 
"A continual high unemployment only increases fear and weakens the already weakened capacity of the retail market in the area," stated Edith Kyler, co-chairman of the Economic committee. 
Some of the problem can be traced to the slumping South Bend economy and discrimination in employment of minorities. But the lack of skilled workers accounts for the major part of the problem. 
A project called "Manpower" was designed by the MNPA to upgrade the jobskills of the Neighborhood residents. It provides both full and part­time training and operates a business intern program. 
Another MNPA project, the Economic Develbpment Corporation u<::Ju~•-. to develop economic opportunities. It supplies useful economic in formation and works with other business organi1ations. 
To deal with consumer and credit needs, the 'Consumer Services" project was initiated. This project provides credit counseling and con­sumer education, and organizes buying clubs to fight the high cost of food and other necessities. 
This 1"Credit Union" operated by the West Washington Avenue Credit Union gives Neighborhood residents a place to save money and to borrow the money they need. The Union teaches money management and eases financial pressures on the families. 
"If we haven't accomplished another thing, we have sparked citizen participation in community action" 
"At present we are enabling the Neighborhood Credit Union to be self supporting," said Patricia Kyle, member of the MNPA Economic Committee. 
Improved Education 
Improved education is the key to the Neighborhood's future. There is a need for educational programs for Neighborhood residents of all ages, from kindergarten through adulthood, to break out of the cycle of poverty. 
The greatest success in the area of education in the Model Cities Neigh­borhood was the construction of the John F. Kennedy School, "the most progressive elementary school in the city" according to professor William Leahey, of the Notre Dame Economics Department. "The Model Cities people worked through the local legislature to get the school in their neighborhood," he added. 
The "Career Opportunities Training" project trains 31 Neighborhood adults per year to serve as training assistants in the Neighborhood's five grade schools. The adults are trained on the job and at Indiana University-South Bend. 
"We've been able to give more individual attention to the students throught the 'co-op' program," said Floyd Carter, member of the MNPA Education Committee. 
Other educational improvement projects have been instituted to provide materials and equipment, vocational counseling, bus tran­sportation, pre-kindergarten educational opportunities and travel and cultural opportunities. 
Better Housing 
Nearly one out of every five homes in the Neighborhood fails to meet the City's standards for housing. One out of 20 homes are falling apart. 
"There have been no homes built in the Model Cities Neighborhood since the beginning of World War II." declared Margaret Rush, member of the Housing Committee. 
"There is a pressing need for new home construction and older home rehabilitation," she added. The "Housing Center" project serves Neighborhood residents in two ways, by providing complete information on housing programs, and by 
(continued on page 19) 

We wish you happy holidays ... and remind you that we have many exciting gift ideas for the man you've got to please: sweaters, scarfs, gloves, shirts, jackets, belts, socks, ties, shoes, outerwear, suits, sportcoats and more. Practical gifts. Handsome gifts. 
Pay Next Summer 
You pay nothing now; you pay 1/3 in June, V3 in July, 113 in August of the next year with no carrying charge added. 
ON THE CAMPUS . . . NOTRE DAME 





Friday, December 8, 1972 Page 3 
Government groups clash over hall funds 
• 
By Jim Ferry Staff Reporter 

The recent controversy regarding the distribution of Hall Life Fund allocations "is a question of the Hall Presidents Council vs. the Board of Commissioners rather than the IIPC vs. Student Government," according to several Student Government spokesmen. 
The controversy stems from the distribution of $1,000 of the $5,100 Hall Life 1-,und. $1.000 of the fund was allocated to l'everal halls for hall banquets, hall fellows nights. am~ other undefined hall activities. 
But according to the 1972-1973 Budget as approved by the Board of Commissioners, "Rl•view of those financial statements" !submitted by various organizations to inform Student Government of how funds were used) "reveal some questionable uses of student body funds. Therefore, we recommend that appropriations be made for !->pecific purposes, as enumerated in this report." 
"After reviewing each request, we singled out items that could appropriately be financed by the student body, " the Board eontinued. "In each case we attempted to make the approved use of funds broad Pnough to ensure a viable program for the organization, yet narrow enough to <'liminate inappropriate uses. Field trips, travel expenses for students, parties and social gath~rings, office supplies and ex­penses. and the like, are more appropriately supported directly by the organization and its members." 
"To ensure proper use of these funds, we 1·ecommend that all funds, with the ex­l'eption of the hall grant program, be ad­Illinistered directly by the Student Government treasurer. In addition, the organizations receiving funding should be required to submit a full statemente.Of total operations to the treasurer at the end of ('ach semester." 
On October 19, 1972, the Board of Com­missioners of Notre Dame Student Government met and approved the 1972-1973 budget which contained the following en-
display at Isis Gallery in the


Art in the lieldhouse 
Fieldhouse until the end of the semester. 
dorsement: "The Board adotpted the rationale developed in the budget recommendations of the Finance Com­mittee and instructed the Student Govern­ment Treasurer to administer the funds in accord with its recommendations". 
This is the crux of the problem. Student Government has determined that hall banquets come under the heading of "parties and social gatherings", which would be in direct conflict with the budget as approved by the Board of Com­missioners. Therefore, Student Govern­ment claims that the allocation of the $1,000 conflicts not with the Student Government, hut the Board of Commissioners. 
Student Body Treasurer Mike Marget said that the HPC appointed "Hall Life Fund committee was well aware of the provisions" when they initially allocated the Hall Life funds. 
11-Man (Dennis Etienne) stated that "Its out of our hands" and that "We're bound by rules." 
In reply, Alumni Hall President and HPC chairman Butch Ward said that he felt "the money was allocated rightly". 
. "We studied the hall requests. The purpose of the $5,100 was to provide the halls with money that would be used to best improve the spirit of the halls." 
"One of my basic premises has always been that every student whose President requested money should see some of that money. I think that the Student Body should clearly see that there should be a new method for distributing Student Activity fees." 
"I think that Student Government is too tied up with the legal interpretation of the way the Board of Commissioners intended the money to be used. They should be more interested in the spirit than the letter of the law." 
"Student Government has said that they will honor the original totals so the Hall Life Fund Committee and the HPC will have to meet as a group to decide how to spend the money." 
A collection from the Columbus Gallery of Art and Design is on 

By Acadeznic Council 
j
New calendar J to be reviewed 
Notre Dame Academic Council will consider a proposed 1972-73 academic calendar next Thursday similar to the one repealed by the Council last year, announced University Provost Fr. James T. Burt­chaelllast night on WSND's weekly program "Contact Notre Dame." 
The calendar, which features pre-Labor Day registration for the fall semester, received 

Academic Council ap­
, proval last Spring, but after over :1.000 students signed petitions opposing the plan. it was repealed by the CounciL 


In addition to the early return to school, the proposed calendar offers two vacation options for the first semester. either one week-long Thanksgiving break or the current Thanksgiving break in addition to a long weekend somewhere at the end of October. In either case, holy days of obligation will no longer be class days. The question of vacation 
Ellis options should be answered by the Academic Council when it meets Thursday. 


The second semester remains the same in Fr. Burtchaell's plan 
Burtchaell argued for his plan yesterday noting the overcrowded condition of the current first semester, which is two full class days shorter than the second semester. There is also a lack of vacation time in the first semester, he said. 
One of the arguments used by students to defeat the Calendar last year was the fact that it would cost students a full week in working time over the sum­mer. and in the case of students working at resorts, it would cost them either a lucrative Labor Day weekend or possibly their entire jobs. 
Burtchaell countered this argument by pointing out that since the calendar was changed several years ago to provide for a pre-Christmas end to the · first semester. students have gained over two weeks in working time. He pointed out that the pre-Labor Day return to school would still give students a net gain of a week or so. 
The Provost indicated that tie is presenting his plan now so that everyone who voted against it last year will recognize the problem he believes exists at the end of the abbreviated first semester. He said that during the more leisurely second semester, students and faculty alike often forget the troubles of the first semester. 
The calPndar should pass this time without trouble, he predicted. The issue joins Faculty Manual con­sideration on the agenda for Thursday's meeting of the Council. 

Burtchaell's announcement ellicited a favorable response from Student Government Academic Com­missioner Ed Ellis, who is a member of the Council. 
"I'm in favor of the plan at this time," said Ellis, "I agree with Fr. Burtchaell that the first semester is far too cramped, and I think most students will feel the same way. It's time we made some effort to ease up on the first half of the year." 
Ellis said he has sent letters to hall presidents, SLC members. college advisory council chairmen, and student government cabinet personnel to try to estimate student sentiment in the matter. 
"While I favor the plan myslef," he stated, "I won't be here next year, and I really can't impose my own views on the campus at large." 
"Last year there was considerable opposition to the proposal from students at large I don't think it will develop this year, but if it does I'm perfectly ready to present it to the Council as the legitimate opinion of the student body." 
Ellis has asked hall presidents and other people to whom he sent letters to discuss the question with their hall councils and other constituencies and to report back the consensus of student opinion. 
If considerable opposition does exist, "we should be 
able to detect it and to represent it adquately," 
commented the Academic Commissioner. 
Mike Davis, the Badin Hall freshman who organized resistance to the plan last year is now a Student Government ombudsman and a member of the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council. He had no comment to make on the plan at this time. He said he would wait and review the arguments before he made a decision on whether to repeat last yar's petitioning. 
Arts and Letters College student representative to the Council. Fred Giuffrida, said he favored the new calendar. He did note, however, that this was con­tingent on the results of Ellis' letters. Giuffrida, like Ellis. is a senior. 


4 the observer · Friday, December 8, 1972 
warld 

.· 

brlefs 
> 
,(.. 
! ( 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

I
_,· 
J 
( 
Washington--The State Department has alerted 100 foreign service officers to prepare for transfer to ·South Vietnam as soon as a cease­fire is declared, department officials revealed Thursday. The officials would be sent to check on how the truce was being observed. The stand-by orders went out on Wednesday to the officials, all of whom have served in Vietnam before. 
Saigon--South Vietnam's foreign minister said that his government 
would not refuse to do what it can to free American prisoners of war. 
The minister, Tran Van Lam, said Saigon could even agree to release 
political prisoners in its ow~ jails _to help bring ab~ut_ an acceptable 
cease-fire accord. In an mterv1ew, Mr. Lam md1cated he was 
resigned to an imminent agreement in Paris that would be less than -fully acceptable to his government. 
Paris--While Henry Kissinger and Le Due Tho continued their private negotiations, the Communist delegates to the formalt>aris peace talks spoke darkly of "impasse" and "deadlock." But there was no way to determine whether they were warning of a break-down in the negotiations or whether they wer~ merely applying last-minute pressure before a breakthrough. 
Houston-As Apollo 17 continued toward the moon, mission engineers expressed confidence that it would make up for the time lost during the delayedlaunchand land on schedule next Sunday afternoon. To do it. the astronauts stepped on the accelerator to achieve a slightly higher velocity than originally planned. 
Washington--The typical American now has almost four more years of education than his 1940 counterpart, according to a new Census Bureau report based on the 1970 survey. The report, which found that more than half the adults have attended college, said the most dramatic gains were made by young adults, particularly blacks. 
New York--Local Mafia leaders are reportedly planning the most dramatic reorganization in 40 years. The main architect is said to be Carlo Gambino, the reputed head of the city's largest Mafia family. The plan reportedly calls for a-reduction in the number of crime families, the expulsion of hundreds of members and a reopening of the membership books that have been closed since 1957. 
an campus taday 

friday, december 8 
8: 00--speech, u-2 pi lot gary powers, lib. aud. 8:30--play, the killer, washington hall. 8 & 10--movie, "midnight cowboy," eng. aud. 
saturday, december 9 7:00-hockey, nd. v. denver, a~c. 
8: 30--play, the killer, washmgton ha II 8 & 10: 15--movie, taking off, holy cross hall. 8 & 10--movie, the wild child, eng. aud. 
sunday, december 10 
2:00--play, winnie the pooh, little theatre, smc. 
8: 00--chora I concert, church of our lady of loretto, smc. 8:30--play, the killer, washington hall 
7: 00--auditions, alice in wonderland, little theatre, smc. 2-6---open house, badin. 8 & 10--movie, the wild child, eng. aud. 
monday, december 11 
7:00--auditions, alice in wonderland, little theatre 
7: 00--xmas caroling, smc choir, begin lemans courtyard then to circle 
tuesday, december 12 8:00--basketball, nd. v. iu., ace. 
8: 00--recital, little theatre. 
wednesday, december 13 
' 

8: 
00--organ recital, sacred heart 

8: 
OOcac blues series, big walter horton & carey bell. washington hall. 


} 
f 
f 
t 
l 
( 
( 
} 
; 
I 
~ 
( I 
! 
I 
( 
I 
r 
I 
I ( 
Powers slated for library speech
.~ .:.-. , . . .. 
Francis Gary Power~. the pilot of the U-2 reconnaissance plane .. whose capture disru-pted the-1960 sum1nit ~onference with Russia, wi1l speak at 8 p.m. today in the l\lemorial Library Auditorium of 
the University of Notre Dame. Sponsored by the Student Union 
Academic Commission, the talk is open to the public without charge. 
------~ 
lk-was t"reed in 1962 in exchange for convicted Soviet spy Rudolf 
Abel and later joined the Lockheed ~orporation as a test pilot. 
The Observer is published daily 
· during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the l'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchesed for $8 per semester ( 14 per year> from the Observer, t\ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second clan postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
• 

JuniorYear in NewYork 
Washington Square College of Arts and Science 
of New York Uaiverslty sponsors a Junior Year in New York. . 
The College, located in the heart of the city, is an integral part of the exciting metropolitan community 
of New York City-the bllsiness, cultural, artistic, and financial center of the nation. The city's extraordi­nary resources greatly enrich both the academic program and the experience of living at New York 
University with the,most cosmopolitan student body
in the world. . -· _ ..::· .· 

This program is ~~n tQ students recommended by the deans of the colleges·to which they will return for their degrees.. . . -___ ·: _._: 
.......... ~-· .. '\. 

There are strong and varied offerings in many areas, such as fine arts, urban studies, languages including , non-European, mathematics in the College and at the Courant Institute, psych~lqgy, ~nd others. 
A qualified stud~nt ~a~re~i~(~;-for courses in all other schools of the University;~ including the specializations in · Commerce and Education .. ·· 
. . ·· 

. The University. sponsors programs in Spain and France. 
~ 
. . 

Write for brochure to D~tor, 
Junior Year in New York ~ '· 


New York University NewYork,N.Y.10003 
-ARMY ROTC .ARMY ROTC ARMY ROTC ARMY ROTC ARMY ROTC 
·-.-~--..ij~. • 
-~­


Allows you to fulfill your military obligation as a 
Commissioned Officer. The leadership training and 
experience that you receive gives you a headstart in 
management. 
Makes you eliqible for scholarships which includ·e full tuition and books ·plus $100 spending money per month. All ROTC-cadets ~n.t;he last two years receive $100 a month during the 'school_ year. 
Qualifies you for-specialized training that you can 
take during your ~l'YeU$ under the Golden Dome. . This , 
includes fligbt~'airbOrn~ and ranger training. 
., ·. -. ­

Can grant you a draf:t;;. d_eferment so that you are. able to finish your chosen curriculum without· annoying and unplanned interruptions. 
. ·-· . 
. .. .. .. ·.. 

Is flexible •. There are four, three, and Two-Year Programs at Notre .Dame. You can even spend a year abroad in one of·the Foreign Study Programs and·still be in ROTC • 
INTERESTED? Visit the Department of ·Military Science in the ROTC Buildin · cross from th~ Knute Rockne Gym. We will be glad to give you further etails. 
ARMY ROTC AT NOTRE DAME THE MORE YOU KNOW, THE BETTER IT LOOKS 
. 
. i. • ·~, . ·. 
) t '·' 
'• . 
,,-, 

During exam week 


24 hour LaFortune nixed 

experiment to see how things would \\·ork if it was open." 
Securitv and the nature of the use of ·the building were the primary reasons for the rejection, aceording to McDermott. 
"It was primarily the security angle. Arthur Pears, <security chiefl checked with a number of ~chools in the midwest. Their centers weren't open twenty-four hours because of security problems... said McDermott. 

Lowe: No disadvantages as a woman in a male profession. 
hand helps." she commented. 
Noting the advantages that she feels women have in journalism, Lowe observed, ''It's important to use these advantages. When you start out looking for a job, your education and experience will be of 
(continued on page 13) 

"Also the idea of having the 
student center open primarily as a 
studv hall was not desirable." 
Tl~P central staff of the Student 
Affairs office. headed by Acting 
Student Affairs Vice-president 
Phillip Faccenda, is composed of 
aII Faccenda's assistants, Dr. 
Hobert Ackerman, director of 
studPnt activities. is one member 
of the central staff. 
Ackerman affirmed that the 
dPcision was based on security and 
philosophical reason. 
"The building has too many catacombs which are hard to secure. Also it would be hard to find someone to manage the building during the late night shift, Pspecially during exams," Ackerman said. 
Ackerman questioned the use of the building as a "library annex" during exam time. 
"If we want to change the image of the student center I'm not sure \H' want it to become a study lounge.'' 
Healizing that most of the halls are crowded for study space, Ackerman said efforts were being made to open up additional space on eampus for studying during exam week. But this additional stud~· space will not be in Lafor­tune. 
The l{enovation Committee will no\\' eoncentrate its effort on remodeling the physical 
~trttcture of the building. 
"\\'t' will reconsider the twenty­lour hour proposal after the rmovation project is completed," said 1\lclkrmott. 
Friday, December 8, 1972 
the observer 
HONEY-BEE 

'Earthy & Eleganf11 Christmas Gifts Custom Made Candles Hanging Sand Candles Candle Supplies Bethel Pike Pottery 

2210 Mishowoko Ave. South Bend, Ind. -46615 Ph. 288--433-4 
Owners-Bee & John Klempay Just off Ironwood Dr. 
MAIN CHURCH 
SUNDAY MASSES 
5: !5 p.m. Sat. 
Fr. Hobert Griffin. C.S.C. 
!l::lo a.m. Sun. 
Fr. Eugene Montoya, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. 
Fr. Andrew Ciferni, 0. Praem 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
"Evening Prayer" vespers at 4:30 p.m. Sunday. Confessions are heard before each \\t'Pkday mass and from 7:00 to 7:30 p.m. l\londay through Saturday. 


HOUISt MON • 1'118 • ntU1 -... 'AM 5.» I'M 
WID • &Af 9 AM 12 NOON CXliMPI.m INICrACU

RoGERS SRYICl ALL E'\'I Dt."S NUatmOMS HONOUrOptical 
e./1 
110Gb .A1WIU. • OWNa 289-7109 
5 
.· 

--.. 
J 


Crasslakes


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
(_ 

The Last One


., John Abowd Dan Thornton Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 _ Joe Butler 
jaseph abell 

Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
Friday, December 8, 1972 

Our Christmas Bag 
Lest the rest of the campus feel slighted since the Observer has so far presented Christmas gifts only to erstwhile sport personalities, a few offerings for the local (and then some) off-the-field heroes are in orcer. Fr. Hesb,urgh--an honorary membership 
in the New Frontier Scholastic Society. 
Fr. Burtchaell--a new dormitory and a few more days of Observer publication so that he can announce that his find will be used for new female students. 
Dennis (H-man) Etienne--a Clarke bar. The King--a primrose path and a rain of 
terror. Dr. Edward Henry":'-tenure. Dr. Paul Messbarger--a shot at Dr. 
Henry('s gift). Dr. Phillip Faccenda--another vice­
presidency to add to his collection. Sr. Alma Peter--more pasta. Bob Ackerman--a happy birthday and 
sympathy from another Christmas 
/ baby. Greg Stidham--a coor's evaluation. The women of Holy Cross--more pop 
corn. The women of Badin and Walsh--more. Edmund Price--a McDonald's gift cer­
tificate. The Academic Council--a manual. The SLC--only if they give us something. 
- 
The HPC--a blank check  from  student  
government. Mike Marget--writer's cramp. Jim Cooney--a screen test for  the  re­ 

make of "God is My Co-pilot." Arthur Pears--unsolicited bids from 
Omega, Longines and Bulova. Jim Clarke--an H-bomb. Barb Allen--a little less luckless. Sr. John Miriam Jones--more com­
mittees. Sr. Jane Pitz--a real hot tomato. Fr. Shilts--the league batting title. The Faculty Senate--the collected 
minutes of the Student Senate. The Student Senate--a plot in the Corby graveyard. Fr. Riehle--a side trip to pinehurst on the 
way to Miami. Br. Gorch--more keys. Richard Sullivan--his own computer. Fr.. Toohey--more glass for his window. Sue Roberts--a title. Dick Conklin--his own wire service. Women's Caucus--less ms.fortune Hal (the Observer typesetting machine)-­
a rest. Everybody else--some of Hal's gift. 
John Abowd with a little help from the Office 
Merry Christmas from The Observer staff 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus SMC Editor: Maria Gallagher Features Editor: Rod Brave Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Ann Therese Darin Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ell is Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett Assistant Ad Manager: Patti Strobel Business Secretary: Ceil Popovich (Mom l Subscritpions Manager: Art Ferranti Circulation: John Woods, Kevin Kelly, Rea Scheer Production Manager: Joe Wilkowski Photography Editor: Jim Hunt Night Editors: Marlene Zloza, Kathy Schwille, Jack Frischkorn. George Lund, Joe Abell News Staff: Dave Rust, Marty Miller, J. Peter Berry, John Culligan,·.Patti Shea, Jeanne Murphy, Mike Baum, Beth Wille, Mike O'Hare, Jim Ferry, Andy Schilling, Denise Crowley, Jim Gresser, Greg Rowinski, Mary Egan, Mary Janca, Bruce Pertovich, Kathy Kelly, Tom Sheridan, Dean Mayors, Lee Klosinski, Kim Kittrell, Bob Quakenbush, James Abowd, Jim Eder, Jerry Bradley, ;)ick Toland, Michael Charles, Connie Griewe, Pete ."J\cHugh, Janet Longfellow, Pam Gavelda, Jane Cannon, Don White, Jim Early, Matt Cockrell, John Gallogly, Tom Drape, Tom Castello, Andi Husser, Betsy Dwyer, 
P.ill McGinn, J. Patrick Boyle, Jrm Baum, Colleen leehan. Mark Lupino, Bill Sohn, Jeff McPherson, Maude 
Pytynia, Greg Aiello, Art Ferranti Day Editors: Tom Bornholdt, Jim Gresser, Mark Lupino. Tom Drape, Bill Sohn Sports: Vic Dorr. Greg Corgan, Stan Urankar, Tom McKenny, Lefty Ruschmann, Tim Neuville 
Production Staffs: Robert Baker, Beth Hall, Jan Giordano, Chris Sullivan, Kathy Kelly, Sue Prendergast, Albert D'Antonio. Lynn Diguilio, Tim Neuville, Nick Can­trabone, James Abowd, Art Esposito, Bill Brink, Bob Quackenbush, Tom Kane, Ken Kampman, Pete Fries, Mary Romer, John Kloos, Dianne Chermside 
Features Production: Jane O'Donnell. Mairin North, Susan Darin, Diane McDonnell Photographers: Joe Raymond, Carl Straub, Steve Flanagan, Mike Budd Ad Salesmen: Frank Chartier, John Rumbach, Pete Kernan, George Brown, John "Ace" Kloos Ad layout Staff: Rich Naumann, Pete Fries, Sara Angeli, Dave Erba, Jim Wurst 
Typists: Mark Neiderkorn, Dianne Chermside, Barb Norcross, Dennis Anastasoff. Steve Roper, John Flan­nigar.. Dwe Rust. Phil Orscheln, Howard Halle, Tom Modglin. Rob Barringer, Mary Romer, Harry Chung, Jeanne Eastel y 
Compugraphic Operators: Dave Barry, Mike Goetz, Richard MeLoy 
Copy Editors: Mike O'Hare, Ed Ellis, Mike Baum 
Subscription Staff: Steve Kane, Steve Wagstaff and to Mr. Rhodes a special thanks··· THANKS TO EVERYONE---MERRY CHRISTM.AS 
Apollo 17 blasted off yesterday morning. I sat in the LaFortune television room for about an hour waiting for the launch pad to explode into brilliant reds and yellows and themighty Saturn rocket to rise 

. majestically upon a pillar of gold. I wasn't disappointed. The King was with me, as was his number one man, and the LaFortune student manager, but somehow, they seemed far away. They babbled with the law student and the St. i\larv"s junior with us as \\'alter Cronkite tried to fill time and show off his new toupee. Somehow. they never seemed to sense how much I was actually trying to watch old Walt spew out his meaningless facts and TV reporters crawl around rusty mock-ups of the moonships. To me, it seemed important that some 800 scientists had been given a chunk of the some half-ton of moon rocks. It was vital to see Eugene Cernan twist on that fishbowl in the pre-recorded-for-fill-er-time tape. I had to see that last wave. that last smile, that last handshake before they got into the ship Why'? Because it really was the last one. Like so many of my contemporaries, I grew up on the NASA space program. I followed the exploits of such luminaries as Alan Shepard and John Glenn every minute of the way, even if they only went no higher than the old X-15 or the eventually-scratched Dyna Soar. This adventure was a very real part of my life, as it was the part of every ten-year-old potential astronaut. And it was. if nothing else, mine. It wasn't my parents'--their generation set the stage. It wasn't my sisters'--they were too in­terested in Raggedy Ann and her friends to care about important things. It was mine, my dream, my world, my adventure. And follow the adventure I did. One of my earliest memories was the first American space ship. The Russians had just circled the Earth for the first time. and America, under President Kennedy's tremendous l'nthusiasm for space, was struggling to catch up. I could hardly wait the last week. "We have to catch up, we just have to," raced through my mind those last few days; until finally, the "launch eve" came. I 
stayed up until my parents were forced to tuck me in, and my fatther, understanding me as he did, assured me he would stay up later to find out the exact time of blast off <it was always "blast off" no matter how untechnical it sounded) and would leave a note on my door. 
My most vivid memory is of the next morning. By some accident, I <twoke before dawn and sleepily stumbled over to the door. There it was: "Everything A-OK. Blast-off at7:00." Overjoyed at the first line, I promptly ignored the other one and went downstairs to watch the test pattern for twenty minutes before a youngish Walter Cronkite ap­
peared on the old bulky tube to take up the count again. . I don't really recall what happened after that, but I remember staying glued to the set for the whole mission. And the rest of the missions. The same excitement was there when Project Mercury turned into Project Gemini with the promise of a space link-up and a walking spaceman_ My favorite memory of this was late elementary school. It had become the usual thing for a space mission to mean a free day of school since we jocked around all day watching television in the classroom. Perhaps the rationale behind that was the educational content of the television filler. I don't know, I don't care: I watched it. My classmates threw spitballs and talked to Pach other; I watched all that filler and loved it. It had become part of my world. part of me, something to learn from and enjoy, something to let me become a part of the mission. And I did fly with the silver­suited pair. Finally, the big one: Apollo lL The end-all of eight years. The all­night sprawl on the couch and the red, tired eyes and the empty, growling stomach just to see a few hazy shadows moved jerkily across a white plain_ But it was more than that. A science-fiction author's and mine. dream had come true: man had landed on another planet! The great adventure had not ended; it had just begun! And I was a part of it~ It took a disaster that was fatal to three adventurers to bring back the public's attention, and a near-tragedy before the entire world focused its eyes on space and a crippled moonship. But after that, it wasn't news anymore. Sure, old Walt was still there for the blast-off and the recovery and the moonwalk, but no more of the 24-hour stuff, no more of the_endless explanations and illustrations and interviews. And no more of the real headlines. · f.~or me. high school was fast fading and Notre Dame loomed on the far northern horizon. "Didja hear 'bout the moonshot?" "When?" ··Today." "What did they do?" "I don't know." became a common eonversation; things were just spinning too fast to watch TV all day. And it eventually spun away. Apollo 17 is the last flight to the moon, the last one "in this century" was the quote from some high NASA official. I can't buy that last part, but it definitely will be the last one for quite awhile. It will be the last adventure into space, the last journey into the deep unknown, the last American jab at the outer fringe of God. And with this last mission will go the hopes and dreams of ten-year-olds and sixty-year-olds and at least one twenty-year-old, hopes and dreams that will look long and hard for an adventure as momentuous, as glorious and as excting. I'll miss it badly. 


~aane•bury 

/ 
~ye,MoH/

I 
(. 
Be GOOP

r 
NtJW!

I 
I \ 
( 
( 

5116' Ce:eT~INt-'( SHe's "' tS. SHE:S Pur 
COVRA6£0US 11'1 /H()l)SA/1/PS SOUl-, Pf//lc/). OF HilES oil 7H£ /lOA!J"THe YEARS. 
I 
-. .-) 
t 


fiarry trudeau 
WH&RE.'o 
SHE 6e-r IH/3' z'M 
NDTORC Yet£? NOT 
I S{)I?F;. 
I 
the observer 
lliitte Editor: Joe Abell Ass't Nite Editor: Bill Brink layout: Maria Gallagher, Marlene Zloza, Jerry 
Lutkus, Don Ruane, Bob Quackenbush, John Abowd Oay Editor: Bill Sohn Typists: Dianne Chermside, Dave Rust, Tom Modglin Night Controller: Joe Wilkowski 
Don't forget to pick up your 
Christmas uarty tickets at the Observer office or from your dept. head 
·-the party is Monday night 

( 
(

( 

J, 

Dut: antheWeekend 


An Interview with Scrooge 
bab hi"in• 
Being a Semor and a long standing member of the staff of this magnificent publication, I was recently given the unique and great honor of interviewing the renowned dignitary Dr. F. Ebeneezer Scrooge. It seems that the famous Dr. Scrooge D.D.S. <Doctor of !~read and Sadness) was on his way to a lecture in Chicago when he, l1ke the notable Fr. Sorin. made a wrong turn and found the campus·of Our Lady. 
Scrooge was surprisingly delighted by his misfortune declaring that he had never had the pleasure of seeing weather quite so bad. "Rain in December." he noted. ''is quite a treat for me. It makes everyone totally miserable." · 
Scroo_ge is currently on a nation-wide fact-finding tour, trying to determme new and different ways to ruin the fun of Christmas. "Won't you ever give up?" I queried, noting that in spite of his efforts Christmas has been enjoyable for quite a long time. 
"IIow can I?" he replied. "I was almost successful last year." 
"How was that?" 

"You have a. short memory,"he replied. "Last year I was per­~onall~ responsible for scheduling Christmas on the same day as the Amencan Football Conference Championship game. Do you have any idea how many dinners were ruined because that game went into three overtime periods?" 
"What?" I said, taken aback, "You did that?" "Sure." Scrooge replied, "I've got an in with the guys who are responsible for Christmas. You know, Santa Claus and that bunch." "But I thought you and he would be the most bitter of enemies " I 
. ' 
t·etJ1~!.~_ed, besommg more and more amazed by the minute. 
"Naw," replied Scrooge, "I could never hate that old white 
haired fool. He's senile. You know anyone else that gives 
presents to everybody? I even got something from that guy last 
year. a change purse or a wallet, I can't remember." 
Scrooge mentioned that he no longer had hopes of totally destroying Christmas. "That was my goal in years past, when I young and foolish." he said, "'but now I concentrate on certain people only." 
"Do you have anyone in mind for this year?" I asked, ever fearing for myself and my loved ones. ! 
"Oh yes!" he exclaimed, "Notre Dame for example will be snowed in during your final exams and all of you will be forced to stay here for Christmas.'' 
"How do you know that?" I said, almost in tears. 
"I bouJ!;ht off the weatherman." 

Serooge was growing impatient by this time, but when I offered to 
treat him to dinner, he became immediately relaxed. At dinner, I 
<luestioned him ab'lut Notre Dame, feeling that he had had enough talk 
<l bout his arch-ri\ ..il Christmas. 

"I don't like this place," he said, "there are too many nice people." 
"Oh?" I said. 

"Yeah. people do things for free. Like giving blood, and smiling at 
l'ach other. It's truly disgusting, I can't stand it." 
"What can we do about it, Ebbie?" I said, becoming more familiar. 
"You can all become narrow minded, mercenary bastards, like 
Illl'." 

"How can we do that?" I wondered aloud. 
"Well. you begin by sending Christmas cards only to those who send 
them to you." 
"Then what?" 

"Well. you have every one of your Christmas presents appraised to 
determine its market value and then you decide whether its donor is a 
cheapskate or not." 
"Is there anything else?" I asked. 

"Yes, I almost forgot," Scrooge said. "Whatever you do, be sure to 
be downright rude to the salespeople that wait on you while you're 
Christmas shopping. The clerks deal with idiots all day and you're no 
exception." 

"This will guarantee a miserable Christas?" I queried. 
"Certainly." he said, nearly certain. 
"Thanks so much, Dr. Scrooge, you're swell. Have a nice Christ­
tnas." 
"Bah! Humbug." 

Friday, December 8, 1872 the observer 
7 

Pal•What It's Warll'. Going Places 



Notre Dame students are a pretty bland bunch of 
young adults, but then they are not much different 
from other students in the United States. They 
matriculate to the college of their choice; do their 
tests. papers and assigned readings; hang around 
for a couple extra weeks in the fourth Spring to get 
their diplomas; and then learn to bend as they melt 
into the masses beyond the Circle. Nothing 
dynamic or exciting. 
The only time something worthwhile happens, is 
when it comes through a course project. One econ 
course is making rent surveys for example, which 
might put a damper on unfair and discriminatory 
rents against students, poor and minorities. The 
only other people really getting anything done 
around here are those involved in Logan Center, 
tutoring services for which they aren't paid and so 
forth. · Notre Dame students, like the rest, are so bland they don't even want to do anything for themselves, let alone others. While waiting for a lecture to begin last week. a friend came up and asked me where eollege students are going, what are they doing with these lour years. He didn't know, I didn't know. My friend came to,the lecture looking for an answer. I don't think he found even a hint. 
However. the question is one of those that gets a 
leech-like grip on your mind and hangs around for a 
few days. or until you get at least a quasi answer. 
On the basis of seven semesters, my quasi answer 
is that the majority of college students are going 
absolutely nowhere. Nowhere in the sense of 
ehanging the society they've bitched about during 
their four years as a student. 
It is as if they always complain about some jock's 
behavior and boast of what they would do if they 
l'ver got the chance. When they do, they run into the 
nearest room and lock the door. It is nothing but a 
fantasy. They realize when they confront the jock 
that they better move themselves before they get 
moved. 
It is the same thing after they confront post· 
diploma reality a couple times. It's just one hell of a 
lot easier to bend and twist your fantasy a bit, than 
to try and stand by yom: highest ideals. 
Once the average college student, and by average 
I nwan the white. middle class fellow; gets his 
diploma. four years of spouting otf at the system 
\'anish as hl' gathers job and family responsibilities, 
and before long he is as capable of using con­. \'<'ntional shortcuts as the 20 years \'Pteran. But what about the student who isn't average, the 
·black. Chicano, the Indian, the women? These 
students will be doing something during their 
eollege years in the immediate future. 
After all. it is these groups that have the most at 
stake. It is their particular identity, and problems 
that pose the biggest threeat not only to the 
tranquility of the nation's campuses but to the 
nation itself. ' 
Each of the above minorities, and any that 
haven't been mentioned, is at the stage where they 
are more than just drawing attention to themselves. 
These people are beginning to demand their due, 
and trying to explain to the rest of us why we have 
been wrong in the past. 
The most recent, and tragic, example is Southern University in Louisiana, where two students were killed on the Batn Rouge campus. They had been boycotting for better living conditions, more voice in university affairs, and the removal of a president they considered a Tom. 
But there are more pacific examples here at Notre Dame. Last year, several years of talk culminated in a group of blacks led by the Black Studies Program Director laying some demands on the Provost's desk and getting some results. This year the New Frontier Scholastic Society is making an attempt at effective r.acial cooperation and is succeeding. 
The Chicano activity has been relatively inactive around here because no one has stepped into the leadership slot vacated by Armando Alonzo's graduation. But there have been a few lectures and Notre Dame has one of the nation's leading authorities of the Chicano problem in sociology professor Julian Samora. 
There has been no substantial movement for Indians around here, but the recent demonstration and destruction at the BIA office is a sign that there is more to come. 
Finally the women's caucas, is a new addition to campus, just as it is at many other campuses. An investigation is underway at St. Mary's concerning women faculty and staff, and one is definitely in the making for Notre Dame. The NO caucus will have much to say and do around here the next few years. 
These are the groups which will be going someplace during years. The rest of us will be content. inspite of our bitching, to learn the round about ways that will soon become shortcircuited. 
These are the groups that will enjoy Christmas because of their unity for a cause that is right. The rest of us will chew the jerky of commercialism and then stow the gripes for anothe year. 
But why end the semester on a pessimistic note? 1\lerry Christmas to both groups, and to the average student an added good try, but come back next year and take another shot at it. 

Minstrelafthe Dawn Madness II 


jim mc:deraaaatt 
If you've come to the University planning to finj out that man is the best computer on the market today, that, pound for pound, his brain is the most l'fHeient memory bank in the world, and that this is the essence of man, you probably have been sur­prised. If you have not been, then don't worry-you may never notice. 
while any number of philosophers will write that m_an is no more than his intellect, people who live w1th people know that he has an added dimension­;m irrational element. For good or ill, we are all a little off the normal distribution curve that statisticians of psychologists design. It's a nice average, hut not reaJly all that accurate in in­dividual terms. Not really all that fun either. 
Man or Machine 

This family trait of "madness" that runs in £'Veryo~e makes life_ more difficult, interesting, rewardmg, challengmg, and frustrating. It's frustrating t~ deal with a bureaucracy, here or anywher~ el.se: that deals with people in hyperrat10nahstic rules and regulations, when you know that the person who designed those procedures was not acting as a machine-he acted like a human, designing the forms so that they \\'ould fold easily into an envelope, not so that they'd have enough room to fill out all the blanks. He doesn't fill it out, he folds it. And the great runaround-"I can't do that, you'll have to go see Mr...··-that is no rational organization chart saying that to you, it's a person who may just as wellbe saying that its along job that he doesn't reallyfeel like starting, a situation where the decision made will be a risky one to his career or whatever. The ~rson in the bureaucracy may be only protecting h1mself, but the others that he deals with may be hurt. 
It won't hurt, for example, if the Registrar's clerk doesn't recognize you as an individual, so long as the Jranscript is sent out in time. When the for­
~t~nately rare, tea_ch~rs or counselors feel this way, It s wrong-unreahshc. When a health se&~~ide can be run this way, it's dangerous. 
It's the same thing out<;ide an organization: a purely rational person would not dare trust another. 
P<'rhaps we are only "conditioned" to act with friendship and trust for another person, but that wouldrob life of the joy in it. People have to make the risky decisions to care about others, they have to find the time for others. Especially with exams here. People will need each other-idiotic irrationality will be close enough. 
A Chance To Remain Human 
As the semester begins to close people are beginning to recognize this. People are starting to make the time to talk rather than cram. It's not altruistic-it's human. Our irrational action to put a~ide the requirements for a time. however short, gives us a chance to remain human-in spite of some god-awful final or paper. 
The Joy of Love 
For a Christian, Christmas is a symbol of the ~rrat~onality of giving. There is nothing more' 1rrat10nal than the idea that a God could love men. But that is the joy felt-the joy of love. 
, F?r a humanist, there_ can be the better aspects of ( hnstmas-those least hed to the sales and barg~n basements. I suppose-show the potential of humanity. For a moment, people are able to smile­irrational in face of an absurd world· and enjov life even if for only a day. · ' 
A Christmas Tree 
After all, what is rational about a Christmas tree? 
It's a left-over from pagan winter rites. But for some strange reason, there is a beauty in Christmas trees tAat we pine for all year. There is little ob-· 
· jective sense in dragging a spruce into our houses but life is a lot duller without it. The tree mak~ sense. 



-~----~­ ~---~-~---------------------------­ 
8  the observer  Friday, December 8, 1972  
baker  

Observer: Remembrance of Harbors Present 
(C) 1972 New York Times News Service 
Washington. Dec.6 It was the historic 7th of Dl'cember. News of the attack on Pearl llarbor had interrupted the Sunday afternon football fOI'':' days previously, infuriating millions of lAns. Switchboards at the net­works had collapsed under the raging burdl'n of callers protesting interruption of the· gamt>s for bulletins from Honolulu. 
After the Washington Redskins' game Nldf'd. President Nixon met with the Nn tiona I Security Council. 

For three hours they debated whether Professor Kissinger should be disturbed in Paris ·md told thE> r.?.ws. 
As reflected in the bulletins pouring in from Hawaii. the news was grim indeed. !\lore than 10.000 tons of Toyota Coronas had been droppec on Pearl Harbor. There were rumors of a vast Japanese squadron hovering off Los Angeles with a capability of delivering up to 10 megatons of brand new :H-inch Sony television sets. 

A fleet said to be carrying 15 million llonda motorbikes was rumored ap­proaching the grand banks. 
\Vith the National Security Council deadlocked over the advisability of disturbing Kissinger--it was then the midnight -supper hour in Paris--President Nixon reached a decision he told his staff he 
.,
.. would address the nation by television at 9
~ .... 
o"clock the night after that, which was ,, 1\Iondav. · 

"...· 
llis staff ('Onfered through the night in the White House all night staff conference room. At dawn they advised the President 
.., 
i-;/
., that a Monday night address was out of the 



Letters... 
,.
•., 
'-Termpapers 
1-~ditor: 


We are in· complete agreement with William Halterman of Term­paper Hesearch. We feel term papers are a useless, time­('Onsuming exercise. As long as professors pass off term papers as a legitimate learning experience, then students should be permitted to obtain them as they see fit. Cl'rtainly it is not totally honest to
'',· 
t-· huy a term paper. but it is equally ' dishonest to require students to write these meaningless discourses and masquerade them
'· 
"as higher learning. 

J
C/ Hick Blower Steve Thompson Tom lleafey 
,. i "' A Sermon
} 
Editor:

r
fi'
,, 
It distressed me greatly to have( read tmmerous articles printed in 
( 
your daily paper, the Observer, on
.; 
several occasions since the first
'·· 
·r ., l'dition was published last fall. 
~/ · I'm referring to the· many speakers allowed on Campus who promote and condone pre-marital sex. co-ed residence halls, birth control clinics. and all the rest that comes under the heading of sin, if so indulged in. The acceptance of this kind of thinking could, and I dare say IS resulting in a degeneration of young people as never before since the days of Sodom and Gomorrah. Satan's 
., 
,· angels are truly busy working overtime these final~·days before dtrist's return. even in Christian lfniversities. 

St. Paul. speaking to fhe, 
r. 

( 
.J 
Grand Opening \· 
/ 
Dec. 11 th & 12th ~ 
~·-' 
I; 

J &J GRILL ~: 
·.f.:
:lZ7 N. MichiJZan

l. 
';;.. 

Steak & Eggt. l;· Coff!'e $1.00 .-. -~ -' Hamburger & Co/fee 
•, 
25 cents

.­
Op•n 24~hrs. 

,. ·~ 
... 7•days '­
-~ 

question. because it would LOnflict with A.B.C.'s Monday Night Football. Unless he pre-empted the game, he would get such a negligible percentage of the audience that the president might be can!'eled next se­
ason for a western. If he did pre-empt it he would lose 45 points in his Gallup Popularity Pol~. . 
At teatime Monday Professor Kissinger telephoned from Paris to inquire if his paycheck had arrived in the afyernoon 
• 1mail. J:<,rom his secretary he learned im­mediately of the attack on Pearl Harbor. 
Talking to the President, Kissinger learned that Nixon planned to address the nation Tuesday night and announce plans to 
ask  the  United  Nations  to  pass  a  
resolution  condemning  the  attack  on  
American territory.  

"Hold off," the professor counseled, "and maybe the Japanese will hit Seattle with a few tons of reasonably priced cotton shirts. If they do, get me a half dozen, size 15 1.'2 collar. 32 sleeve length. Meantime, do ' nothing until I return to Washington." 
On Wednesday afternon. ::1s the Profess­or's plane landed at Andrews Air Force Base. the state of Oregon lay exposed under tons of Nikon Cameras. 
"What will your speech say?" the professor asked the President. 
"On Sunday. December 3, and again on Wednesday, December 6, two dates that will live in infamy---" the president began. 
Kissinger advised him to postpone the speech another day on the chance that the ghost writers might produce a beginnin~ wi-
Corinthians 1 Chapter 6: says; 
Make no mistake, no fornicator" (pre-marital sex) "or idolator, none who are guilty either of adultery or of homosexual per­version. no thieves or grabbers, or drunkard. or slanderes or swin­dlers will possess the Kingdom of God." 
God gave us the Ten Com­mandments. If He believed in a permissive society, would not He have· handed down the ten suggestions? Man lacked the means however, to carry out His commands in his own human resources, but God, in His goodness. provided a way by sending His only son, Jesus Christ, our Saviour. to accomplish for us what we could not do by ourselves. Praise God for willing the death, resurrection. and ascension of Jesus. What a gift to us. Yes, Jesus won the victory over sin, and is waiting to share this power with anyone who will repent of his sin <md receive Him into his very being. 
Young people. do not be led astray by men who pervert the truth and lead you down the road to destruction. My prayer for you is that the Holy Spirit will convict you (if He has not done so already) of your need for Jesus in your life. All have sinned. whether great or small. ther~fore all need Jesus. May you experience the peace and joy (even when turmoil exists) and know the freedom from the power of sin that only He alone can produce within you. Then obtain a copy of the Holy Bible and listen as God speaks to you through the leading of the Holy Spirit. May the Spirit open your mind ~un­derstand the Word of God~ its fullness, producing in you the power to action according to His will. 
If this reads like an Evangelistic Sermon. so be it. 
A praying mother. 
Mrs. M.L. Neuville 

P .S. If you are a beginner Bible reader. may I suggest you start with St. John's Gospel in the New testament. 
Pears & Etienne 
Editor: 
In the past I have always 

refrained from writing letters to 
the Observer. but today, Dec. 7, I 
noticed two items which I felt 
merited a comment. The first item 
is that which spoke of Arthur 
Pear's ingenius method of traffic 
l'Ontrol; the time clock. I cannot 
think of a more ridiculous or a 
more foolish expenditure. One can 
only wish that the funds provided 
from sale of parking stickers were 
being used toward parking 
protection or better security 
against bike theft a better security 
guards or even increased lighting 
as opposed to a time clock for cars. 
One might also wish that Arthur 
Pl'ars would once and for all punch 
out! 

The second item which I found ludicrous was Jim Clarke's dismissal. I had hoped that the Kersten Administration might avoid such petty politics. Any individual in campus government should be able to speak his mind on controversial issues. This item forces me to wonder just which campus forces should be accused of poobahism and it reinforces my original opinion that nennis Etienne is an incompetent, pompous ass. 
>i,ij{ 
Robert H. Welly 1302 Hillcrest 
~------------------------~------~~~~-----------~ 
ND/SMC THEATRE PRESENTS EUGENE IONESCO'S 
THE KILLER 
Dec. 8, 9, and 10 at 8:30p.m. Washington Hall All seats $1.00 Washington Hall Box Office open .4: 00..6: 00 daily Reservations 283-7054 (not included in season ubscription) · 

th more appeal to Mr. and Mrs. Middle America. 
All that night the President and key ad­,·isers wrestled with the historic speech. Telegrams and letters of support from all 
over the nation poured into the White House. The polls showed that the people would 
stand solidly behind any action the President took. provided the draft would not he resumed. taxes would not be raised, there would be no more war news about Asia <tnd no reduction in Saturday-afternoon, Sunday or Monday-night football. 
After studying the polls and conferring with powerful chairmen of the powerful House and Senate, the President made his issued a notice advising Americans that in the event of a major Yen bombing everyone ~hould hold on to all the yen he could get his hands on because ven were worth a lot of monl'y and the United States, if it could ­~l·t l'nough of them. might get the dollar hack on its feet. 
110 '~·  historic  decision  not  to  address  the  
nation.  
Instead.  the Treasury that  afternoon  

That afternoon the fantasitc reasonably­priced-shirt attack was made on Washington. It was a complete dud. None of the shirts were bigger than a size 121 2 in the collar and 28 in the sleeve. 


Ms.'=Jivin'=JS 

Seasoned Sentiments 
maria rjallaiJher 

Watching the Dome prepare for Christmas is an awesome sight, but also touching in a way. Watch students en masse erect individual fire hazards in their rooms, and decorate them in an effort to make a Keenan cellblock more homelike <but how can you improve on contemporary penal architecture), or a St. Ed's roach feel like part of the family, or an Observer office more domesticated. Watch a Saint Mary's student get sent to J-Board for popping popcorn to string on the tree (double jeopardy--she wasn't supposed to have a tree. either). Deck the halls with boughs of folly. 


--------------------------------------------------------------------------~, 
Friday, December 8, 1972 the observer 9 
L.t:te... TD fl Lanely God 
cannabis for a christmas present 



There are. at this moment. three pots of marijuana struggling towards the sun of the dresser or my Keenan bedroom, contraband confiscated from a student who has a passion for growing the green things of life under a light bulb amidst the clutter of a dormitory room. There seemed to be an admirable innocence in the boy as he pleaded for the life of his illicit weeds: "Don't kill them. Father. Don't yank them out. Pot's gotta live too. There is more of the kid in those plants than in all the papers I've Pver written. Just let them finish growing, F<tther. and then throw them away. And Father. could you talk to them sometimes, because they have a special need for being loved." What is a Rector to do in the lace of such aesthetic detachment. as though there \H're no servile uses intended for these plants which might prove offensive to the majesty of the Law? As a guardian of the t'ternal values. I have a great reverence for green and living things unless it's scum, or fungus creeping on the bathroom tiles. I also have a middle class fear of the penal ser­vitude of the prison system. One cannot imagine the Emersonian-Thoreauvian kind of dialogue 1"What are you doing in there, llt.'nry'?"-"What are you doing out there, W<lldo?") having any kind of profound implications if one were jailed as a minor league Berrigan. martyred as a gardener of pot. 
1-:ven so. as I struggled, while dressing this morning, with my roommate, Darby llhe dog), over the rightful ownership of a sock. I mused over taking the plants with me to Manhattan at Christmas, for that special touch of holiday green that could lift 
42nd street out of its winter doldrums. You 
would really have to know my 42nd street 
parish to realize that marijuana wreaths 
would be more of a show-stopper there than 
evergreens ever could be. My room in the 
rectory is at basement level, and the win­
dows. covered with bars, look out on the 
sidewalk. Last summer, while I was reading 
by those barred windows, a lady grieving 
over ancient grudges with God, hurled a full 
pail of garbage. and this cleric, a study in 
obesity touched by grace, found himself 
splattered with coffee grounds. I didn't take 
the attack personally. The old lady has a 
reputation for flinging debris at every faith 
symbol in the neighborhood: at church 
steps. convents. and monsignors in mufti 
l'aught out after dark. I figured in me she 
found a target broader than a brace of 
monsignors. yet not quite as wide as a 
l'onvent. Size counts for something when 
you're using garbage, and every litter bit 
hurts. 

In the neighborhoods on 42nd street, Christmas wreaths aren't notable for their redemptive lift. unless afterwards, they can he smoked. or sniffed, or injected into the arteries. So dream, all of you, of your white Christmas; and don't think me weird, in my mid-town rectory. if I consider relevant ways to please the crowd, and to say to sinners in a contempory idiom, "Today is Christmas, and Jesus loves you." To modify <I poet's words. "Pot does more than Milton 
(.'i.lll 

To justify God's ways to man." 
AI least last Christmas, this seemed to be so. God help us. in_ my parish on 42nd street. 
I think of saying Mass at the parish-Holy Cross Church at 42nd street and Eighth Avenue-early in the morning last Christmas. As I celebrated the liturgy for a sea ttered handful of little old ladies, I was remembering another little old lady-silver­haired. Irish-eyed, and beautiful-who lives in a resthome in Maine. The distance from home and family that day seemed to create an illusion that God was also very far away, and despite ~he evergreens and poinsettias, the Euchanst seemed unassuring in its promise that the Word has become Flesh. After Communion, as I was returning from the middle of the sanctuary to bring the Blessed Sacrament to the tabernacle on a side a1tar. I noticed that a wino-type was keeping pace with me on the other side of the altar rail. and he was trying to get my attention. With hosts still in hand, I ap­proached him at the altar rail, and there in God's house, on God's birthday, he hustled me for money. 
"Hey. fadder," he said. "Could you give me a little something to help me get to Scarsdale?" Scarsdale, for God's sake, that poshest of New York suburbs! In New York, it seemed to me. the beggars have inherited the earth. 1 
My first thought was a greater sin against the holiness of the day than any panhandling of his could have ever been; besides, had I not myself. a little earlier, tried to hustle money from him when I announced the Christmas coJlection? 
"Street trash," I thought to myself, "Get to hell out of here." Instead. I said: "See me after Mass in the sacristy." ! 
t 
J 
Funding a pandhandler's way to Scar­
sdale did not m-ake Christmas Day any less 
bleak for me. though I thought to myself, 
maybe he's a prodigal, homeward bound; 
and somewhere in Scarsdale, a mother 
waits. silver haired, Irish-eyed, and 
beautiful. If so. I thought, he's a better son 
than I am, and I felt more wretched than 
ever. I think that priest-types realize they 
me not more virtuous than wino-types, then 
one does not make the journey from 42nd 
street to Bethlehem alone or by himself. 
At that moment, Keenan Hall is a great distance from either Bethlehem of 42nd street. and the plants that struggle for life on my dresser are not evergreen with hope, nor are they trees to which the carols of redemption are sung. They are simply weeds. and their promise is illusory, both to the garbage ladies and winos of the City, and to the boy-gardeners of Keenan Hall. 
Our hope as Christians is not in weeds, but in the Cross, which was once a green tree planted on a hillside outside the walls of another. ancient city. Bethlehem ,with its manger may sometimes or always seem to be a great distance from us, and every road may look like 42nd street; but Calvary is often upon us-in birth, death, war, failure. fear. discouragement, and in the loneliness with which our Christmas stocking is hung. But the journey to the crib is never at a greater distance than the span of any lifet:me. and in the end, everything will be forever Christmas. 
So merry Christmas to you in all your nows and all your forevers. And remember: Oarby O'Gill and I never said we didn't love you. 


father grilfin·s weekly ·urchin• mass 
Fr. Robert Griffin, rector ofKeenan is the celebrant 
Weekly. Keenan hall is the site of a unique children's liturgy entitled the ..Urchin's mass." Captured here in the pictures that follow is something of the spirit that regularly attracts the young of all ages 
Photo credit: Carol Riordan 
merry christmas 






.., 
{ 
\ 
c 
( 
~ 
~ 
f:
.; 
l.., 
' 
l (.., c 
l (, r 
t~ 
I 
1' ....... 
( ._,
t 
l_, 
r 
( 
f 
t 
~· 
! 
f 
i 
( 
f, 
~ 
( 
l 
( 
~ 
'{ 
I 
-( '{
'( 
r 
{ 
t 
{ 
( 
f. 
I 
/
I 
[' 
~ 
I 
~ 
I 
~ 
r 
r 
{ 
f 
{ f 
( 
/ 
,­
; 
( 
r 
.' 
l 
I I 
( 
I f 
I 
! 
l 
:r 
, 
( 
f f 
[ r 
l I 
f 
,{' 
( 
t 
( 
' 

by Tom Drape Staff Reporter 

It is Student Activities night and the place is Notre Dame's student center, LaFortune. A bewildered sophomore turns to his friend and asks, "This is the Student Union ? -l thought it was the science building." 
In 1953, Notre Dame received a $135,000 dollar gift from a Tulsa oilman, Joseph LaFortune to renovate and furnish the old science building as a student center. Nearly twenty years later, -the LaFortune Student Center remains as designed. Complaints range from its lack of usefulness to the pastel color of the walls. A general consensus of dissatisdissatisfaction, among those who know its location, LaFortune remains rooted in 1953. As Sue Roberts of the Provosts office notes, "It's so moldy, it's almost inviting." 
In the original design, LaFortune was to serve two 
primary functions: dances, such as the Engineers Ball, 
and student meetings. With time has come changing 
priorities and LaFortune hardly meets a major 
university student's needs. An envious glance at 
Northwestern's, nine year, 10 million dollar. new 
One Sophomore Architecture proposal wants to open up the Tom Dooley Room to the Huddle. The Dooley Room could be used as a dining area. 

... 
c 
:a 
:X: 
E
·-..... 
>.. 
..Q 0
... ut 
0 
.c 
Q. 





renovation 

The LaFortune Student Center of Notre Dame was built in 1953 thanks to a gift of $135,000 from Joseph LaFortune of Tulsa, Oklahoma. 
Norris Center lends a deceiving eye to social ex­perience within the total Notre Dame education. 
Dateline -the Past 
Joseph LaFortune is a 1916 graduate of Notre Dame who also received an honorary degree in 1949. He is a past vice-president of Warren Petroleum Co., Tulsa and a native of South Bend. On May 22, 1953, Fr. Hesburgh announced a gift from LaFortune of $135,000 to renovate and furnish the old science building as a student center. 
The design of the center began first as a contest among senior achitecture students with a fifty-dollar first prize for the winner. The principal design was done by Frank Montana, then head of the Notre Dame architecture department, and Robert Schulz of the architecture faculty. Both architects still remain at Notre Dame. 
Mr. Schulz recalls that the primary objective in designing LaFortune was satisfy the demands of the students. "They wanted a place to meet, to hold ballroom dances. Off campus students also needed a place to meet," Mr. Schuld recalled. 
He termed the renovation, "reasonably successful" and pointed to the fact that any structure eventually loses its designed usefulness in 5 to 10 years. 
In preliminary plans, said Mr. Schulz, there was objection to connecting the Huddle and the student center.The two halls leading into the Huddle were required as fire exits. He explained that the enclosed l'ourtyard was constructed to allow more space in the second floor ballroom. 
Speculating on any future remodeling, Mr. Schulz stated, " the building is sound; structurally in good shape. There are limitations in some walls, but at least you have something you can work with," he said. 
renovation renovation r no tion 
A 
Commenting on Northwestern's new cente acknowledged the obvious advantages of building in designing its functionality. 
LaFortune was officially dedicated on NovE 1~)53 following the Notre Dame-Iowa footbal l\1r. and Mrs. Joseph LaFortune were the honor. The professional services of Laura interior decorator, who had done the White H Morris Inn. were also unveiled. 
Datelirte -Present Priorities 
With signs of possible renovation by the for1 the Committee for LaFortune, the social funct center. as well as that of the total Notre [ vioronment. may be in for improvement. Di Student Affairs. Dr. Robert Ackerman, refl mittedly idealistically, "If the University is ( to the total development of the student, :. student center should be included." 
"The concern for student life should be a to1 nnd hopefully the Priorities committee a ticularly the Facilities committee will consid said Ac.kerman. 
Dr. Ackerman feels that in terms of LaF potential. the present center is inadequate . nre no meeting rooms, space for organizations, or social meeting areas... the Life Council doesn't even meet here," Ackern 




case lor LaFortune 


A solitary student reads his newspaper in the Forensic Room of LaFortune Student Center. 

, Schulz a new 
mber 21, game. ;uests of Jenkins, )Use and 
1ation of oo of the arne en­·ector of !Cts, ad­edicated hen the 
priority rld par­~r this," 
ortune's "There campus Student an said. 
The Director further noted that the building is not 
designed to be a union and that past and present 
modifications are successful up to a point. 
"The first need is to develop a philosophy of what a 
Student Union should be," Said Ackermen. Noting the 
('tnphasis on hall life at Notre Dame, Ackerman feels 
that this detracts from the use and interest in 
LaFortune. He would expect a Union not to replace 
student life but to add to its total dimension. 
Pending a decision on the Majority Age Bill of Indiana. Ackerman expressed interest in working for a beer-and pizza social atmosphere to add another dimension to campus life. "An atmosphere like a Shula's or Kubiack's would not be the goal," he said "but H beer-and-pizza set-up, possibly in the Hathskellar. would be something to work for," 
Ackerman added. 

Dateline -The Future 
The Committee for La Fortune homes to initiate renovation proceedings by a different approach than that used in the past. Co-chairmen Jim McDermott and TE'rri Skeehan hope to go to the trustees with specific plans to ask for money, instead of requesting money then initiating plans. The committee is operating Dr. Akerman's direction. 
Sophomore architectural sketches indicate plans for "opening up" the building in terms of balconies and 
One Sophomore Architecture student viewed LaFortune in this way. He proposed opening the Huddle to the rest of the student center by virtue of a small con­course through the interior of the 
building. 

concourses. One proposal depicts a balcony level housing student co-ops and organizations. Others call for small. club or other meeting rooms. 
Ken Knievel. a senior in architecture, is reponsible for employing use of senior architects in the spring to submit designs. Ken personally plans to put a great deal of time into this "pet thing of mine." 
"The potential of the building has yet to be realized and hopefully this will be our main concern," Knievel said. 
By Comparison 

A major university often categorized with Notre Dame m respect to size and excellence is Nor­thwestern. It would be diffecult to see any resem­blance in their respective Student Unions. 
Dedicated this fall, Northwestern's Norris University Center answers the demand for a modern student center. The Norris Center combines game, craft. and meeting rooms; spacious lounge and eating areas: listening rooms and a 350-seat auditorium -a complete and total social environment. The third of I ive levels is wholly devoted to office and file space for eampus organizations. 
The H.4 million dollar center is the second building to he erected on a land-fill area that extends into Lake Michigan. As a point of interest, the land-fill came via the Indiana dunes. The project required nearly 10 years to complete. 
Financing of the center waz provided in the same manner as LaFortune. The Lester J. Norris family contributed 21 :.! million dollars to the student center as a gift Eventual operation of the center will be con­trolled by a Center Programming Board to be com­prised proportionally of students. 
Valparaiso University's size and isolated Indiana setting lends its student center to comparison with Lal<,ortune. Renovations in their student center will begin in six months. 
The Valparaiso Student Center consists of multi­purpose rooms. an auditorium, and student orgzniation offices. The relocation of the bookstore will open up 40,000 square feet for renovation. 
Unlike the ND or Northwestern centers, Valparaiso's center was originally financed by a referendum tax levied by the students themselves. The planned renovation will be handled by fund raising by the university. 
Notre Dame's LaFortune has aged within the vines of ivy \\'hich cling to its walls. Hopefully, the Com­mittee for LaFortune efforts and the University itself will bring the student center back to life 
Assistant to the Asst. Provost, Sue Roberts, on the e/C?ctrical power failure at LaFortune on Activities Night "With all the people milling about, the old building went into such a state of shock that it blew all 
its circuits." 

Friday, December 8, 1972
the observer
12 



A111nesty: last issue of the war 

bring himself to fight the bureaucracy editorial in the December 18, 1971 edition possess a special kind of courage. in this war .. Then you get into the question 
with its own weapons ... He just wrote a of the Chicago Sun-Times, Taft, "A con­lie also says amnesty would be "at least of what kind of amnesty and under what long. sensitive paper on his own personal servative Republican from Ohio, has a step toward regaining balance in a l'onditions." ('onviqtion as a religious objector and shown the idea <amnesty) to be one with culture where the perpetrators of acts like Toohey went on toI compare Nixon's 
that's it. So they got him." Quigley goes bipartisan support. Taft has introduced the Mv Lai massacres are labeled 'heroes' position to that of the people in the gospel on to s,ay that Bush's wife "Paula, and 
legislation which would grant amnesty to and the men who sought to avoid such who were going to stone the adulterous their sik-month-old son are having a lousy !)()()draft objectors now in prison and to the · senseless killings are branded 'criminals.' woman. "His casting stones at people,time just trying to survive." 
estimated 70,000 in exile. Taft's proposal Surelv if a President can intervene per­who in the eyes of many were not even Bush is one of the many thousands of differs from McGovern's in that it would sonaliy in a Calley case. he can do no less guilty. is incredible." 
men who saw the War in Vietnam as wrong 
require those granted amnesty to volun­for a resistor." )((' added that Nixon's current attitude &md refused to fight in it. For these men 
teer for a form of alternative service." . I !ward amnesty is "totally in violation of 
especially. the question of amnesty is a N1xon's Role
A great deal of support for amnesty has the gospel and any sense of mercy."
most important one. 

l'ome from the American Catholic Church. Nixon's position, he feels, also goesThe problem is what to do with those Last month, as the National Catholic According to the Constitution, the against historical precedent. Presidents 
men who. because they believed the war to decision to grant amnesty rests in the W&lshington. John Adams, Madison,
R«?porter reports, Catholic bishops
be immoral. either went to prison, As James Finn
overwhelmingly approved amnesty. The hands of the President. Lincoln. Andrew Johnson, /Theodore and deserted the armed services, left the resolution repeats the bishops' recom­points out again in Commonweal, it is very Franklin Roosevelt, and Coolidge all 
<.'ountry ot went "underground." Should mendation a year ago "that civilian dicricult to determine. Richard Nixon's granted pardon after wa.rs to personsthey all receive total amnesty, conditional 
authorities grant a generous pardon for actual stand on the issue. "President t•harged with crimes ranging from amnesty, or no amnesty at all? ('onvictions incurred under the Selective Nixon first gave a flat no but later said yes, ('spionage to insurrection. 
Service Act with the understanding that
Sixty Percent Against Amnesty sincere concientious objectors should 'Amnesty -should be granted to everybody w.ho remain open to some form of service to the 
According to a recent Gallup Poll, community." conscientiously disassociated himself from 
around 60 per cent of the American people 
Cardinal John Krol of Philadelphia, I 
favor no amnesty at all. A poll taken by participation in t.his war.'
president of the National Catholic Con­the Chicago Sun Times in January of this ference of Bishops and the U.S. Catholic 
year concurs with Gallup, indicating that but not now and not while there are still II(' added that amnesty implies
Conference leading churchman in 
56 percent "opposed any form of am­Anwrican POW's. But he would he said, forgiveness of a crime while many feel in
America. reaffirmed their call for am­
nestv." 'be very liberal with regard to amnesty.' the ('Urrent situation there was no crime at
nesty. Krol. usually considered a con­
As James Finn points out in the !\lore recently. in his remarkable outburst all.
servative. cited "a need to blend charity
November 3, 1972 issue of Commonweal, before the National League of American Toohey's outlook for the future of am­
with justice in considering the situation of
there are many reasons for opposition to Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia Jl('Sty is grim. He feels Nixon will respond
those young men who for reasons of sin­
amnesty. "John H. Geiger, national lw said. 'It would be the most immoral to this issue "like he responded to ~he A'P.
cere conscientious belief refused to par­
commander of the American Legion, has thing I eould think of to give amnesty to poll on the Top Ten in football. He likes
ticipate in the war."

said that the organization is strongly draft dodgers and those who deserted."' number one." Nixon won't change his
The New York Times commented that
opposed to amnesty f;)r deserters who had J<'inn goes on to ask "Will the real \'i('w. he feels. as long as the polls show
the bishops' "attitude flows naturally from 
fled to Canada or Sweden. John Stennis, opinion of President Nixon please stand that most Americans are opposed to
a spiritual view ...that God is gracious and 
head of the Senate Armed Services up'?" amn('sty.
full of compassion, slow to anger and of
Committee is afraid that amnesty would great mercy." A CO's reaction invite more evasion of the draft. Curtiss Notre Dame support of amnesty Tarr. Director of Selective Service, thinks When he testified before the Senate Another member of the Notre Dame that amnesty would be a giant step in the Subcommittee holding hearings on am­At Notre Dame. there is a great deal of community who is definitely for amnestydirection of selective conscientious ob­nesty, Bishop Bernard J. Flanagan of support for amnesty. On October 30, 1972, is sophomore Jim Braun. Recently
jections. which he has vigorously op­Worcester. Massachusetts said he sup­University President. Father Theodore refusing orders for physical examination, posed." ported "the proposal for some form of llesburgh stated that "the VietnamWar is and in the process of obtaining a CO The most general argument against legislation or executive order which would an obscenity that will probably go down in classification. he feels ·that general am­amnesty was presented in the Time essay grant amnesty to these men and provide history as the worst mistake the U.S. ever nesty sho_uld be granted "without a or Jnmiary 10. 1972. "In effect, say its alternate service oppounities for them. I made~ Since it is an obscenity, I think doubt." opponents: amnesty would tell the man would further advocate that this service anyone who stood up against it should be Braun attacked the whole Selective who fought or was wounded--or the sur­should not. in any way be punitive, but given a medal." SPrvice System saying that "If you don't \'ivors of the man who died--that he should rather. should be a service beneficial to One of the campus' ~most active have enough men to fight. you shouldn't have had better sense and sat out the war both the individual and to the com-proponents of amnesty is ttie Director of fight. Those who don't have to fightin Stockholm or Toronto. This is the munity." Campus Ministry, Fr. Willinm Toohey. shouldn't tell others that they should." Last year. Fr. Toohey wrote a letter to Braun also said that he was not opposedPresident Nixon in which he said, "Our to alternate services but added that he did 
'A Republican from Ohio has shown nation is viewed as the 'biggest in the "have some reservations" regarding the world. It would be incredible, however, if compulsory nature and the lack of even the idea to be one wit.h bipartisan support' we should fail to show ourselves 'big' in the justice.intangible yet profound sense of granting Asked how he viewed the future outlook amnesty--a gesture which would have of the amnesty issue, Braun said that "it 
t'motional crux of the problem: Would it National Council of Churches, largest 
profound impact on a war-weary and looks bleak at least until '76. We'll release 
be fair to those who fought to forgive those. body of churchmen in U.S., also ('ndorse 
refugee -burdened world." North Vietnamese prisoners of war before
who refused'?" amnesty. 
He suggested that Mr. Nixon "exercise wC''ll accept back American prisoners of
A "No Amnesty for Deserters" group the power you are granted by our 
conscience." sent a message to many Americans saying Who are the are the real criminals? Constitution ( .\rticle II, Section 2) to grant The problem is still unvolved. The war "you can imagine how disgusted they amnesty to these young men." 
continues and Bob Bush is still in jail.

(veteransl get when theywatch T.V. and Columnist Garry Wills argues that the Fr. Toohey also tried to organize a 
Close to BO,OOO Americans whose biggest see a George McGovern or a Ted Kennedy ones who need to be granted amnesty are letter writing campaign and a student crime was "premature1morality," are now 

eall for amnesty for cowards who would those who committeed the crime of getting lobby. His efforts received ~uch coverage in prison. are domestic'exiles or are livingnot stand and fight for their country." the U.S. into the Vietnamese conflict and but little student supportJ It was this 
in a foreign country.

keeping us there. "There real question," eampa ign that Bob Bush referred to ~n his Amnesty support from many areas he states. "is not whether the President Christmas card. 
Bind the nation's wounds 

should grant amnesty, but if he should In a recent interview he stated that "the On the other hand, support for amnesty receive it." dearest case for amnesty, pertains to 
llenry Steele Commager in the April 6,

has not only been very vocal, but often Dr. Henlee Barnett, in the September 29, those who chose to go to prison rather than 1972 issue of "The New York Review" 
coming from surprising voices. Sen. 1971 issue of The Christian Century, cites a fight a war against their conscience." 
stated. "If we are to r¢store harmony to George McGovern made amnesty one of number of reasons for granting amnesty. These men. he said, are "really honorable our society and unity to our nation we

..... 
his campaign promises which is, aS Finn He feels the resistors"sole 'crime' is one of men." who are "worthy of considerable should put aside all vindictiveness, all 
calls it. "predictable" in light of conscienc:e." He also feels granting praise." He does feel that those who inclination for punishment, all attempts to McGovern's stand on Vietnam. Sen. amnesty would "help to bring together and deserted. fled the country or went un­cast a balance of patriotism or of J<:dward Kennedy, chairman of the Senate reconcile the various parts of our disunited derground demand special attention sacrifice ... as unworthy of a great nation. 
subcommittee on amnesty, has also made national family." Other advantages he because the situation involving their ac-Let us recall rather Lincoln's admonition 
statements in favor of granting general cites are the liberation of thousands of tions are "murky." 
to judge not Ulat we be not judged, and 

amnesty. Americans in exile, brightening America's "In my opinion amnesty should be with malice toward none, with charity for More surprising than that is the stand of tarnished international image, and granted to everybody who conscientiously <.llJ•. ~trive on to bind up the nation's 
SeQ. Robert Taft, Jr. Accpr.QiJ~g ...~.M.......JlrJlll.iding. au .. awerenees... that·· ·resistors-.. -dtsassoclated himself fro·m participation ·wounds." · 
... ·-·6·~~~-~~~~-~,. ~, 

/ 

_F_ri_d_a_y,__De__ce_m__b_er__a_,_19_7_2___t~h~e~o~b~s~e~rv~e~r______l3 
HICCOUP registration suggestions 
Student responses overWhelming 

by Dick Toland Staff Reporter 

"I'm really pleased with the way it's going. I wasn't sure it would go this well when I was first ap­pointed." This is the way HIC­COUP (H-Man's Investigation Concerning Cruel or Unusual Preregistrationl coordinator Mike Geisinger describes the support of preregistering students. 
Geisinger and fellow coordinator Bill Dasso have placed suggestion boxes and forms outside the ter­minal registration stations of the fourth floor of the Administration Building. 
"The response has been over­whelming," according to Geisinger. He hopes for approximately 350 constructive 
suggestions when advance
Gc.>isinger: Every effott is 

registration finally concludes
being made to treat 
today.
st u0ents fairly. 
Geisinger described the program by claiming, "Our goal is to make students realize that every effort is being made to treat students fairly and in cases we'll do everything in our power to correct those situations." 
He expanded this further by stating. "The basic system (ad­vanced registration) is workable and it's not our intention to change that system but only to eliminate some of the inconveniences and abuses of it." 
Geisinger had high words of praise for Notre Dame Registrar Hichard SuUivan "Bill and I were genuinely impressed with the concern and interest that Mr. Sullivan has shown in his efforts to make advance registration both efficient and just." 
Basically the committee hopes to decide what problems exist, 

WomenS Caucus elects students, faculty to steering committee 
by Connie Griewe Staff Reporter 
The Women's Caucus of Notre Dam£> has ('lected six members to l'Omprise a steering committee that will organize and direct caucus movements in the llniversity community. 
Committee members elected last Sunday, i~lude women of \'aried positions within the llniversity. Collegiate Seminar instructor Ms. Mary Lynn Broe. and history instructor Ms. Carole 1\loore, will share faculty position, Lucy Rey and Alana McGrattan will represent graduate students, and Kitty Carol and Katie Duffy w iII represent undergraduate women. 
"One of the optimistic op­portunities offered by the Woman's Caucus is the way in which we can offer support to each other given these different levels of positions within the University," stated Ms. 
Broe. 
"Evt'ryone's idea is as valid as l'veryone else's. There is no distinction within the caucus betwt'en different professional and personaI affiliations with the lfniversity," she continued. 
Ms. Broe stated that the caucus ~ave her the opportunity to meet and discuss various interests of undergraduate and graduate women. that she couldn't meet in any other manner. 
Ms. Broe stated that through rl'adings and discussions, the eaucus would like to reach an understanding of the identity of woman. and to what degree each woman has interiorized her rem ale-role in society. 
According to Ms. Carole 1\Ioore. the caucus would like to bring a consciousness to the entire campus community. "Much of the eonflict is an ignorance of the pmblems. and conditioning within 

TV newscasting open to women 
(continued front page 5) 

major consideration... the old Pxpression having a ·nose for news' still applies. I kind of think your born with this, but you develop it instinctively as you eontinue to work in the field." 
In the question and answer session following the lecture, Lowe agreed that in local newspapers the majority of women writers were restricted to the "society" pages and other sections of that kind. She remarked, however, that she wasn't sure if this reflected a discrimination based on sex or if the women preferred it. 
In general. Lowe said, "I don't · think there's any discrimination in the media." Considering, she added. "Except sports. Getting into the press box at Notre Dame is almost impossible." 
Scholastic delays 
Football Review 

Greg Stidham. editor of The Scholastic. announced last night that The Football Review will not be published until January 29. The Re\•iew. a publication of The Scholastic. will be delayed so the Orange Bowl coverage can be included in the booklet. 
CAC's CINEMA '73 PRESENTS 
~'The Wild Child," 
Truffant's treatment of his childhood k., in mythical terms. 

.. , Sat. & Sun. Dec. 9 & 10 
-~-.'. ·_.... ~ 

8 & 10 pm Eng. Aud. $1 , patrons free 

-. . 


-·..... ::~ :". ;\\.. ·_ :·. ~ ._ t.... . • -, I
•. r 

...... ·'· -._ 
~ -..., . . 
society," stated Ms. Moore. The caucus would like to meet with undergraduate men and work out their problems in being men as well. 
Ms. Alana McGratten, a graduate student in the depart-. ment of religious education, stated that the caucus gives a structure in \\'hich men and women can express their ideas and perhaps learn something in exchange. 
~"acuity representatives, Ms. Broe and Ms. Moore, are in­\'estigating the possibilities of woman's Student program. The program would be a regular curriculum on an interdisciplinary level. giving full credits. 
The program would include such topics as the history of American \\'omen. economics of women in society. and the psychology of women. 
The caucus is now involved in darifying the policy on women's health services at the University. It has also set up a woman's center in the library giving information <.'oncerning current campus lec­tures movies. and books for those <.'oncerned in "raising their con­sciousness." 

discuss the problems with member sof the faculty and administration and look at other universities to see how similar problems are being handled. The committee would like to complete its work by March in order to permit adequate time to implement changes for the Spring advance registration. 
While Geisinger is handling the suggestions, Bill Dasso is soliciting advice from other universities. To date. 26 students have volunteered their assistance in the effort. Gt'isinger intends to contact the volunteers early next semester, when the project will move into full swing. 
In his task of soliciting com­plaints Geisinger uncovered two noteworth comments yesterday. One claimed that, "They don't treat me like a king anymore." The second asked, "Why not serve popcorn as everyone stalks out of registration? Do you think that'd be corny? Take it with a grain of salt. and don't butter up the deans. Oid you know that Kernel Sanders is husky? .. 
The nationwide bestseller about the cops­by acopl 
,_ 

OBOBGEC. 
SCOTT 
STACY 
KUCB 
AROBERT CHARTOI=F­IRWIN WINKLER PRODUCTION 
'i'BE •·zJ!IIIIIw-­CENTUBIONS 
From llle-by JOSEPH WAMBAUGH!iiiPIMYISIDN" 



SHULA'S 
COME ON IN 'OUT OF T·HE COLD WARM THE BODY AND THE SOUL. 

«'•· ~tc C/N/, 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN -49120 
Phol'le 683·4350 

From: MARDI GRAS COMMITTEE To: NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 
Please take advantage of your time off this Christmas to do something good for someone else-­sell your raffle tickets --a small gi'ft ~hat will be 
"'. ·' . 


appreciated more than we realize., , · .: ... ,. i, -... ; .·~::::,;:::·.: ; •· 
~ '. 
. . ' ' 
~·' 
-·~ --l 

... 
:'\.~ ..;.. .;:< ~}~~; . 
• ' ' ~ ·~ I 
.·,__· . "·~ -~ "< • .1\
·:-1· :-: ' •,•lt, .... : . 
·•. ' : 'I-: ··: ~ -· ·\~~.r.::;·<·:·l·:, :..;~~~ 
' •• • J .. ·~.~q
, ·. 
.:..-.~;:J-.;. :,·,
~•-. . ' 'f ~·w~ -~ttt~ 

~;:;,. F~;;~ , ~~·:: 

l• 
~ 
1 
~ 
... 
l •
·:1·;
• 

1 
~ 
1 
1 
-~-,, 

1 
1 
1 1 
1 
l 
l 
l t 
1 
l ~ 
1 ~ 
.f[,~,
... 
~~·_••1 
)'~~~ . 
·,:i't-: ~· 
.....~.. 
.:\1.~:. 
·~ 
....~,j..Jt.
...... .,. 
~ 

Make Mardi Gras a success this holiday' , :, . .~ ·:j:~..~~;~;,; ?{ -· Merry Christmas./; . · · · :·~~·,.:=-..--..it·~~, ,!/f 

· · "':;_> :;:}:_ :;;~\;··••· .•:t •'":::~': ..'x~~ ···a 
. .. _, .· . . :·: ; :.:. .. . . ·.• I· .-.· 
"' • ·: ··~·;i'. . .· -· . • . ··-~ 
• !"" 'j 
t ..~~ ' .. ~.. '· 


the observer Friday, December 8, 1972 
FroiD Saigon to South Bend 

by Maria Gallagher 

St. Mary's Editor The waiting game is over for a Notre Dame professor and his wife who endured a year of red tape and setbacks to adopt a South Viet­namese baby girl. Dr. Thomas Werge, assistant professor of English, climaxed a year of correspondence and oc­<.'asional disappointment with a Thanksgiving trip to Saigon to fncilitate the adoption, bringing home Adrienne Werge, nearly a year old. The process began a year ago whenWergeand his wifeNoellesaw a news article about an American G I working in Vietnam with children of mixed parentage--born of Vietnamese girls and American GI fathers. They contacted the particular soldier, who replied that he was personally unable to help them. but referred them to another GI who might have been able to. To this day the Werges do not know the whereabouts of the second soldier (he had been transferred), for coincidentally their letter fell into the hands of some American missionaries starting a foster horne at Vung Tau, a coastal resort town about seventy miles from Saigon. It is a small demilitarized zone of sorts . where both the Vietcong and South Vietnamese armies send their soldiers for R & 
H. They rub shoulders there without incident, and there seems an unspoken agreement that the place will not be bombed by either side. 
The missionaries sent pictures of Adrienne and several other children to the Werges, and it 
marked the beginning of an "ar­duous process" as described by Werge which finally led him to Saigon itself. 
The year-long process. which is also the standard waiting period for U.S. adoptions, involves a staggering amount of paperwork and cooperation on both sides of the Pacific. Several documents, some difficult or nearly impossible to obtain, are required for an adoption to go through. One is the child's birth certificate, which is sometimes lost in the shuffle of erra tic bookkeeping in South Vietnamese hospitals or or­phanages. Many agencies facilitate adoptions by fabricating false birth certificates. 
Another crucial document is a "release" which must be obtained from the South Vietnamese 
CAC'S Blues Series 
proudly presents 

BIG WALTER HORTON 
and 

CAREY BELL 
with the Eddie Taylor Blues Band Wed., Dec. 13 8 pm Washington Hall $2 at the doors (open 7:30) 
government stating that the child is free to be adopted. These, ac­companied by the child's visa, numerous letters of reference from the local welfare agency, a letter of . petition from the prospective parents stating why they wish to adopt a Vietnamese child, fingerprints. forms required by the DPpartment of Immigration and Naturalization, must all be available. and correspondence with a South Vietnamese lawyer helps. 
Werge. who with his wife worked independently of any agencies, went to Saigon to bring his daughter from the Vung Tau or­phanage to the city for required medical examinations, and to oversee the cable messages bet­ween Saigon; Hammond, Indiana (where the Indiana Bureau of Irnlnigration and Naturalization is located); and the U.S. State Department. After a hectic week­long stay in Saigon and 40 total hours of air travel time, Adrienne arrived in South Bend. 
Although the process is a long one. Werge said he would en­<.·ourage any parents seeking to adopt a ·vietnamese child, cautioning however, that the demand is great--fifty or sixty families apply per child available for adoption. 
"The orphanages welcome inquiries from families if they are not over-specific about the type of child they want. So many need homes that the institutions are happy to answer requests for <.'hildren. I would not discoura?e any prospective parents--if their desire for a child is very great, 
they should pursue it--but the desire is necessary to carry one through the waiting period and the bureaucratic snarls." 
Werge withholds criticism for South Vietnamese President Thieu. who despite stubborness with the U.S. on other issues not only condones the adoptions but is "very much in favor of them," according to Werge. 
He is radically opposed by many factions in his nation, most notably the Buddhists, who oppose the <tdoptions on both nationalistic and religious grounds. Similarly, various welfare groups, many of 
whom  extort  large  sums  from  
prospective  parents  during  the  
adoption  processes,  reject  any  

moves which facilitate them. Thieu modified a Vietnamese Jaw which specified that onl 
A new addition to the Werge .family is Vietnamese orphan Adrienne, recently arrived from Vung Tau orphanage near Saigon. 
eouples over 30 married 10 years or more with no children of their own <.·ould adopt orphans. 
"The law can be waived if the couple writes a letter to him stating why they want to adopt a Vietnamese child. Of course they are probably handled by a special government agency and not read by Thieu himself, but it is a loophole which permits many more adoptions," explained Wl'rge. Thieu's ouster would freeze all adoptions in progress, and what stand a· new regime "·ould take is unpredictable. 
A great many of the orphans, mostly the older ones, simply wander the streets, homeless. 
There  is  no  way  they  can  be  
adopted.  They steal and beg  to  
survive.  Children of American­ 

Vietnamese extraction are par­ticularly ostrasized, especially in rural areas. They are tolerated 
(i.e. ignored) in the city, where most of them finally end up. The l'ity is not a gentle parent or tea<;_her. 
Adequate medical care is dif­ficult to provide in the war-torn eountry. where medicine is scarce and perons to administer it even more so. The children of the streets. amputees, or victims of malnutrition, tuberculosis, or birth defects--receive almost no at­tention. and those· fortunate 
enough to be in orphanages receive only as much as is possible under 
(continued on page 15) 


THE ROMA 
welcomes ND·SMC Students Your Host Frank Anastasio 
Delicious Italian Food & Pizza Liquor Complete Rib Steak 
Dinner $2.95 
Dancing to the sophisticated Jazz-Rock sounds of the Bill Nicks Trio 
Open until 4:00 A.M. on WeeI<. ends. 
FOR DELIVERIES CALL 234-3258 211 N. Michigan 
Avenue <next 
to Morris Civic) 
Downtown South Bend. 
.. 



Sat. & Sun. 3:00 5:20 7:30 9:50 Mon. • Fri. 2:00 4:25 6:55 9:25 

"I would not discourage any prospective parents --if their desire lor a child is very great" 
Friday, December 8, 1972 the observer 
15 

AL College announces 
• 
e.."•-1S'(\q, a.o(\~

N0 more d0UbIe ma)ors '" Snowmob~~es '1-\\\'i "SrylE Slf 
by Jerry Bradley Staff Reporter 
D<·vere T. Plunkett, Associate DPan of the College of Arts and LPttt•rs explained last week in a l\\'o page letter to Department <'hairnwn and Advisors that double majors have been dropped hecause several departments felt :hat they must protect their bona lid<' majors and not have them disadvantag{'d hy persons playing 
gamps with chokeof-majors forms. 
l\Jost studt'nts will make a for­Ilia I selPction of one major field ;md then Pnjoy the prefential choice of major courses in that depart nwnt. If a second con­cPntration is declared later, :-;tudPnls usuallv want immediately tlw prPferred · status of taking 111ajor courses in this second field. 
The College of Arts and Letters had (.'Vidence of certain students signing up for a second con­t't'ntration with the sole purpose of obtaining one or two major course cards. hut never intending to fulfill tlw s<•cond concentration. 
lkcause of these growing abuses tiw College of Arts and Letters, with the agreement of the l'niversity Hegistrar changed its polil'iPS. 
l lnder the new policy a student in tiw College will make one formal declaration of a major. That ctPpartnwntdesignation will then 
hegin to appear on all academic 
n•eords and reports made from the 
lkgistrar's and Dean's offices. 
If a student wishes to take a sN·ond eoncentration of major 

Campus Ministry planning tree-trinuning party Monday 
by Mike O'Hare Staff Reporter 
Christmas cheer will come early this ~·ear. arriving Monday Pvening <tt R p.m. in the Campus 1\linistry office. 
The ea rnpus ministry plans to hold a Christm<lS tree decorating gpt together in their Library office on l><'cember 11. Everyone is wl'lconw to take part in the ctl'cot·ation of the tree. provided that they bring with them some sort of honwmade Christmas tree ornanwnt. 
According to Fr. William Toohev. director of campus 111inisti·y. the decorating party was ;1 "big hit last year" and he hopes it will he equally successful this roming Monday. . Music and refreshments will be provided as students decorate the tree with strings of popcorn, cranberries, and their own homemade or­nanwnts. 
(';nnpus ministry also has plans to provide students with a study hreak during final exams. Called "Take a break on us," music and n•laxation will be provided to "sludv weary" students in the librar'y loung'e between 7 and 10 
p.m. on Monday and Tuesday, D<'cemher 18 and 19. 
Fr. Toohey sees these two events as "part of the purpose of Campus l\1 inistry. to respond to relevant campus needs." Not a heavily courses. the departmental n•presentative of this second s<'quence will note "~econd Con­t'<'ntration" on the "Selection or Change of 1\lajor Form." once he has judged this person capable of doing two programs of advanced 

Werges adopt Viet orphan ' 5MIC~1a~~A SNOW SHOW J 
(continued from page 14) 

tlw conditions. Adrienne Werge arri\'l•d wPakened by an intestinal illnPss. wPighing around 13 pounds­-sm;lll for a year old baby. 
"The most difficult adjustment for her has been adapting to solid food and a different kind of for­mula than the one she was raised on Saigon." said Werge. Notre DamP senior Phil Conroy, whose family has adopted three Viet­llamt•se children. agreed, and added that medical care usually takes top priority once the children arrivP home. His brother Joe and sist<'r Huth had to be hospitalized almost immPdiately upon arrival to the States with tuberculosis. 
W<•rge hopes that the United States will follow the policy t•stablished by the French during their occupation which granted FrPnch citizenship to all illegitimate children of French soldiers. Such a policy might make possible for the children of thP streets some hope of im­migration to the United States, and a better life than the present one on Saigon's crowded streets. 

Toohey: Sees tree-decorating as 'response to relevant campus needs.' 

spiritual or educational experience like previous events sponsored by Campus Ministry, he feels it provides a gesture of good will and an opportunity for students to 
relax and meet new people. 
• 
courses. Students Plecting to do such a seeond concentration have no 
~:~:~~\' s~Tec~i~~ci~; c~~~:;l~~~e~u~~ 
ns . th.ose enjoyed by primary lll<IJOI'mg students. 
"Til(' U.S. has given no indication 
that they are adverse to such a 
n1ovP." noted Werge. 
"One thing I will remember d<'arl\' from over there--it meant so much when a child smiled, but it \\'<IS such an uncommon oc­currence. There is very little to smile about for many of them." 
For Adrienne Werge--one of the 
more fortunate children--there will 
h<' much to smile about in her 
future. 
Prison book drive 
set for exam week 
During exam week <Dec. 15-21) this senwster there will be a book drive to provide reading material for inmates at Michigan City Prison in Indiana. 
l\l<•lvin Wenzel, Director of Education and Rehabilitation at the prison. has expressed ap­preciation for the project and has agreed to pick up all books that are collected. 
Tlw book drive is planned for the l'lld of the semester in the hopes that students will contribute their hooks to the drive rather than sell them hack to the book store or lug IIU'm home at Christmas. 
Collection boxes will be put in all the halls at both St. Mary's and Notre Dame. Hall presidents will h\.' ('Ontacted and asked to provide a safe place for their hall's collect ion box. 
Contributions can be made every da~· during exam week. The possibility of another drive at the l'nd of next semester will depend upon the success of this semester's projed. 
If you are interested in helping or making early donations please contact Jack Kuester in Rm. 405 1\t•erwn. phone :J363 
Beauty pagea (\\0 Sk;· 0 Ws \.e(\~0 1119 Res 
0

I co' "J D Jazz Bond rts 1.,~: · ' h "/ b/ ) · 
.: Santa Claus (chtldren s p oto aVOI a e


I . . I ~ 
I I
I I
Friday December 8 5-1 0 pmI Saturday December 9 10 am -10 pm ~~ I Sunday December 10 10 am -10 pm ~ 
I ~ 
I ~.~ ~ ACC Admissions Adu It $1.50 ~ 


~~:."~-~ 
ZZW: 

•
tn 


• --•• •• ,.. -• __ ,_.---• -..... -•.•.• , ....a • ·-... ·--~~·-.-.:__.:.._~•·"•.•~ ---··-----• oa ••-.._ -­
•M 
HOLIDAY SPECIAL!! 
EGGNOG with Rum & Blended 
Whiskey1$339 

fifth 
Boone's Farm 1 Apple & Strawberry
$103 fifth 

J c. .' •• ­
.--·-·-·-··-·------·--..---------?-­

MIDNIGHT COWBOY l~J 
one night only 
Friday, Dec. 8th 8&10 Engineering Auditorium 
THE LAST BASH 
Make it a good one I 
Town & Country Liquors and River Park Liquors want to thank all ND students for ~·our business over this past semester. We hope we've made your parties a little better and a little less expensive. See you next semester! 
MERRY CHRISTMAS 
Coke or 7-Up 
Barclay's 
Gin 

Popov Vodka 
" 112 gal. *Keg Beer *Wine cellar 

TOWN& RIVER 
COUNTRY PARK 
LIQUOR LIQUOR_ 
lown & Country Shpg Ct 2411 Mish. Ave. 
---·---·~. -----•• a, ... •• • ~ -'" • • .,JJ.' • 
-• .. ... --... -----· .... ---.. • .• --.. -.-· --­
-


the observer Friday, December 8, 1972
16 


Quarterback--Joe Theismann 
-D I d ·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.....·.·.·.·.·.·.·.········ .........·.·.·.·. ··············-······ ... ······· ............... .
J •1m on a s o n ............·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.:.:.:.:·~·:·=·=·:·=·=·=·=·······=·=····~···:·~·:·~=:·~·=·:·~·:·=·=·~·:·~·~·:·=·=·=======:==:===
Running Back--J o h n.Cieszkowski 

The Irish Eye 
::::::::::::::::::;:=:::=:::::::::===================================================:=: The Offense · s Besf, '69-'72 
Notre Dame's football history abounds with names of offensive stars. Players like "Red" Salmon, Charles Dorais and Knute Rockne from the early days, the Four Horsemen, Joe Savoldi and Johnny Niemic of the Rockne era, and others like Marchy Schwartz, Bill Shakespeare, Emil Sitko, Johnny Lujack, Angelo Bertelli, Ralph Gugliemi, Joe Heap, Johnny Lattner, Leon Hart, Paul Hornung and Nick Pietrosante, from the '30's through the '50s, won undying fame with their offensive exploits. 
In the first years of Parseghian's tenure at Notre Dame, John Huarh~. Jack Snow, Nick I<:ddy, Larry Conjar, Jim Seymour and Terry Hanratty produced points in record numbers for the Fighting Irish. 
But some of Notre Dame's finest offensive performers have played during the last four years when the Irish compiled an impressive 34-7-1 record. Joe Theismann and Tom Gatewood won spots in the record book with their pitch-catch antics that thrilled N.D. fans in '69 and '70. Eric Penick, although only a sophomore this fall~ proved to be a running back the likes of which N.D. rooters hadn't seen since the days of Johnny Lattner and Neil 

· Worden. Only once in the last four years have the Irish been held to seven points or less in a game ···: and they've never been shut out in that span. Producing point totals of 351 I '69), 354 <'70), 225 ( '71) and 283 <'72), Notre Dame's offensive units have been both prolific and exciting. 
Here's one man's opinion of Notre Dame's best offensive players since 1969: Center--Mike Oriard A Danforth Scholar who co-captained the '69 Irish, Oriard was a first-class individual and 
a first-class football player. A walk-on, Oriard lettered as a junior, and, after his senior 
I 't 
year. was drafted by the Kansas City Chiefs. 
Guard--Larry DiNardo 
Placekicker--Bob Thomas Co-captain of the '70 Notre Dame club which finished second in the final polls, DiNardo was twice named an All-American. No slouch in the classroom, either, the tough guy from ' Howard Beach. N.Y., was also an Academic All-American and is currently in the Notre
~· 
IDame law school.

~ 
Guard--Frank Pomaric~ 
Another Howard_Beach product, Pomarico followed DiNardo's example and became an outstanding lineman as a sophomore. He led the Irish in minutes played as a sophomore and is co-captain elect of the '73 Irish. 
Tackle--John Dampeer 
A three-year starter, Dampeer has done a great job of blocking and been a key factor ir Notre Dame's powerful running game of recent seasons. The Kermit, Tex., native was thf offensive captain of this year's 8-2 squad. 
Tackle--Jim Reilly 

Jim Reilly was Notre Dame's left tackle from '67 through '69 and he received All­American recognition his senior year. After graduation, he was drafted by the Buffalo Bills. 
Tight End--Mike Creaney 
It would be hard to overestimate Creaney's worth to the Fighting Irish during the three years. He was a sure-handed pass catcher who could seldom be brought down by one man after making a reception. Creaney's 78-yard touchdown pass against Pittsbu ~70, his two-point conversion grab that gave the Irish a win over Purdue last fall, and his great touchdown catch that brought Notre Dame within two points of Southern Cal las weekend are remembered by many. But some of Creaney's best plays went unnoticed by the fans. Few could block better than Creaney and when the big guy hit a defender, he stayed down. 
Split End--Tom Gatewood 
Notre Dame's all-time leading pass receiver with 157 catches, Gatewood combined wi Joe Theismann to give Notre Dame one of the most dangerous passing duos in collegia football history. Gatewood also holds Notre Dame marks for passes caught in a season (77), yards gained in a season (1123) and career (2283), touchdown passes caught in a game (3)··· and in a career (19). Although not extremely fast, Gatewood had great hands and out standing moves.· He was names to All-American teams in both his junior and senior years and was an Academic All-American two years, also. 
Continued on page 17 


·' 


Running Back--Andy Huff 


! 
t 
• (' t ;j 



............
~~--------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, December 8, 1972 the observer 
17 

Indiana, UCLA head upcoming cage slate 
\ 









OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
leers face Denver 
. ~ 
'game while scoring at a 4.7 rate. 
by Jim Donaldson 

·-Forwards Pete McNab and Rob 
Sport[. Editor 

Palmer. who always seem to give the Irish fits, are Denver's topNotre Dame's hockey team will point-getters. McNab has 13 pointsattempt to end·a three-game losing in WCHA play <six goals, sevenstreak and avenge a pair of earlier assistsl and Palmer has 12 (5-7).
setbacks this weekend when they meet Denver's Pioneers in a four­Other Denver standouts are point WCHA series. l'l'nter J<:d Hays, wing Rick 
Bragnalo and defensemen Mike 
The two clubs play •onight in Busniuk. Bob Young and Dave Chicago Stadium and will clash Tomassoni. again tomorrow night at 7:30 in the 
The Irish. plagued by injuries
ACC. 
int·onsistent defense and a lack of 
The games are the last for Notre offense. have had their troubles D<une before exams but, after the thus far. winning only four of their students head home for Christmas, first 10 games. Coach Smith's the.. Irish sextet will have anything sextet is 3-5 against WCHA op­
· · but ·a holiday. playing eight games ponents. winning eight of a . hefore ·the start of the second possible 20 points. semester. 
Notre Dame leaders thus far 
During the semester break Notre have been goalie Mark Kronholm Dame will defend its ECAC and wings Eddie Bumbacco and lloliday Hockey Tournament title Ian Williams. Bumbacco, who has 
in New York's Madison Square 10 goals and five assists in league Garden I>ec. 19-20 again.:;t . play. stands fifth in the WCHA Clarkson. St. Louis and St. scoring race while Williams (4-10­Lawrence. visit eastern rival 1-U is right behind him. Roston College Dec. 22, host thE.' 
Denver has defeated NotreCzechoslovakian national team 
name in nine of the 10 meetingsand play four WCHA games. Th•~ between the two clubs.
Irish meet Michigan Jan. 5-6 and take on Colorado College Jan. 12-13 at the AC'C. SMC tennis team 
Right now. though, Notre Dame's thinking about Denver, rather beats ND women than looking ahead. And there's 
The newly-formed SMC Tennisgood reason for that. The Pioneers, Team. practicing since October,coached by Murray Armstrong, 
initiated their inter-collegiate
Hre annually one of the toughest scheduled with a 5-3 win over Notredubs in the WCHA and this year is Dame women last week. 
no exception. Denver, despite heavy losses because of graduation The twenty member team drills and pro signings is unbeaten in and plays their matches at the five league games this year. ln-Mishawaka Racquet Club each 
. eluded in that total are 5-1 and 3-1 Sunday evening . .\·ictories over the Irish in Denver. 
Winning their matches against the Notre Dame women were. "In those two games, Denver Kathy McFarlane, Jane Krier, and ·didn't overpower us as much as Chris Maloney in the singles, andthey controlled and stopped us," Deborah Kock, Chris Carpenter,said Irish coach "Lefty" Smith of Mary Wolf and Maurie Luxem inhis club's two losses to· the the doubles.
-Pioneers. "We played an excellent · game the second night but goalie This Sunday, D,ecember 10, the 
Hon Grahame was just superb. team will host a strong Valparaiso This time around we hope to add a ·University team, at 9:00 p.m. in little more scoring punch.'' the Mishawaka Racquet Club. 
The· public is welcome.
Denver combines good scor; ng power with the league's toughest Future opponent.;; of the team 
defense. The Pioneers, with include Purdue and Indiana alongGrahame in the nets, have given with trips to play Kalamazoo and up an average of only 2.2 goals per Michigan State. 
respect St. Louis from last year nhe Bilikens downed the Irish, 92­RO last season>. and of course we remember Indiana. But we're going to take them one-by-one, because you can't worry about tomorrow when you've got work to do todav. We're going to improve, <md we=re going to go in a positive direction. There's no doubt in these kids' minds now that they~ l'an play--and against these teams." 
In at least two of their seven holiday games. the Irish would seem to have an incentive factor \\"orking in their favor. Indiana and UCLA dealt ND particularly <•mbarrassing losses last year, but Phelps has no plans to lay any speciall'mphasis on those games. 
"Last vear?" he said. "Who didn't beat us last year? No matter what I say before the game, we've still got to go out and play it, nnd it's possible to get over-juiced, nnd then the whole thing can back­fire on you. We've got to score, and 'n''\'l.' got to stop them from ~coring--those are our two ob­jectives. 
"But there is an emotional aspect to it. sure. Gary Novak will rl'nwmber what happened against lndiann last year. and he'll play a little harder because of it. But five out of our top six guys didn't even play in that game. What we have to do is recognize the strengths and weaknesses of our opponents. and play accordingly. We've got to 

,,•.•. ·.·.·..... -.. . ...· . ....... .. . :--·..
pia~· to win." The youthful Irish will get their ttl•xt l'hance to "play to win" on Bruins eight let­far from
lfCLA 's return that away what we 
Saturday. in St. Louis' Kiel 

tl•rmcn from last year's title­usually do. Our style of play will Auditorium. but the chance will not winning team. The loss of Henry be the same. but we'll just have to he an l'asy one. The Billikens are 
Bibby will be eased by the con­try to tie things together more." an l'xperienced team, and have I inued services of Bill Walton, Digger was right when he called 
improved every year since Bob Greg Lee_, Keith Wilkes, Larry the upcoming games the toughestPolk assumed the head coaching Farmer. and Swen Nater. 

part of the Irish schedule. But a job. They are led by versatile Phelps. against such high-· handfull of victories during the 
llat·ry Hogers. a 6-7 performer who powered opposition, isn't planning holidays could make for the
played guard last _year but has an~·thing special. "We'll be doing merriest Christmas that NO's heen moved to forward for the '72-the same things we've done 
basketball program has enjoyed in ·7:J l'ampaign. 
before." he said. "We won't het several years. Bogers. who averaged 18.7 points a game last year. has ex­
Irish narn~ fri-capfains
lWril•nced company on the front linl'. Jl•sse Leonard <6-5 forward> Juniors Frank Pomarico, Willie fall (10) while playing defensive and Bill Paradoski <6-4 center) are Townsend and Dave Casper were halfback and Casper. from 
both seniors. and between them named tri-captains of the 1973 Wauwautosa. Wise., has started at they accounted for 22 points a · football team at last night's annual several line spots during the last ganw last year. football banquet in the ACC. two years.
Impressive as it is, though, the Andy Huff, Jim O'Malley and Huf( a fullback. was named the 

Billiken roster pales when stacked 1\1 ike Creaney also in most offensive
came for valuable player.
twxt to those or Indiana and UC.A. honors. receiving awards for their who over
O'Malley. made 120 The Hoosiers return seven let­<tccomplishments this season. tackles as a linebacker. tops on the 
tt•rnwn from 1971's 17-8 squad. and Pomarico. who hails from dub. was tabbed the most valuable 

second-year coach Bob Knight's lloward Beach. N.Y., has been a defensive player and Creaney,team will be led by seniors Steve ::-;tarting guard for the Irish the Notre Dame's tight end for the past Downing <6-8, center. 17.5 · past two years. Townsend, from three vears. received the .John 

average) and John Ritter {6-5 Hamilton. Ohio. set a Notre Dame McMulian award as the team's 

fm·ward-guard. 14.0 average). 

record for pass interceptions this outstanding scholar athlete. 
Jl~ Donaldson The Irish Eye 

Quarterback--Joe Theisntann . 
"Jersey Joe" was the greatest! An exciting runner and accurate passer, The1~ma~n-led Notre Dame teams won 20 games, lost two and tied two. He stepped mto the starting hneup as a replacement for Terry Hanratty at the tail end of the '68 season and directed the Irish to wins over Pittsburgh and Georgia Tech and a tie with unbeaten Southern Cal. 
The Irish scored 351 points in Theismann's junior year and made their first bowl ap­pearance in 45 years, barely losing to national champion Texas. Notre Dame ~nd Theismann bettered that showing in '70, scoring 354 points, winning 10 of 11 games, sto~pmg Texas' 30-game winning streak in the Cotton Bowl and finishing the year as the nation's number two team. · 
Ironically. Theismann had what might have been his best day in Notre Dame's only loss of the '70 season. Despite adverse weather conditions, the South River Roadrun~er completed :J3 of 58 passes for 526 yards as the Irish tried vainly to defeat Southern Calm the regular season finale. · .· 
Theismann completed his career as Notre Dame's all-time t~tal offense leader: sur­passing the immortal George Gipp. He completed 57 percent of hiS passes for the Irish, a record. and threw for 4411 yards, another mark. He also had 31 touchdown passes, also a record. 
Running back--John Cieszkowski · When "Cisco" was at his best, as he was against Texas in the '71 Cotton Bowl, there were few better fullbacks in the land. A 230-pounder, he could run over would-be tacklers and 
catch passes equally well. R urtning back--Andy Huff . . When Cieszkowski was hurt midway through this past season, Frank Pomanco 
remarked, "Huffer can do the job." That sums up what the tough guy from Toledo was to the Irish--a player who could do the job, whether it meant running for crucial yards up the middle. blocking or ~atching passes. His achievements were recognized at t~e football banquet last night when Huff was named the most valuable Notre Dame offensive player. 
Running back--Eric Penick 

A9.5 sprinter, Penick was Notre Dame's best breakaway threat since Nick Eddy. N? Iri~h runner in the last 18 years gained more yards than sophomore from Cleveland d1d this season. With desire to match his speed, Penick promises to become one of Notre Dame's 
greatest runners. 

John Shumate. Notre Dame's leading scorer, will lead the Irish against St. Louis tomorrow night. 
• j 
by Vic Dorr 

Santa Claus. unless he is some sort of sadist. must have made a mistake when he gave Notre Dame's basketball team the holiday portion of its 1973 schedule. 
Thl• Irish. who haven't done a thing to deserve any holiday ad­\'ersity. play but two home games over a :~5-day span <December 9th to .January 13th l. and their away slate includes a December 23rd ~~ame at UCLA's Pauley Pavilion, a December :lOth game against K('ntuckv at '"neutral" Louisville, and a january 13th clash with 1\larquette at Milwaukee. 
At home. Digger Phelps' cagers will meet Indiana Cthis coming Tuesday, December 12th> and Kansa <J<muary 7th), and the Irish will begin their holiday schedule tomor-row. when they meet the St. Louis Billikens in an eight p.m. gmn(' at St. Louis. 
Six .of the seven teams Notre llanw will meet over the holidays defeated the Irish last year, ·and tlw only exception, DePaul, will be fielding a much-improved squad in Hli2-i:l. It is the toughest part of ND's schedule. and the Irish will wasde into it with a 1-2 record, having dumped Valparaiso on W<.•dnesday for their first win of the year. 
But head basketball coach Digger Phelps isn't ready to surrender to anyone, even to In­diana (who bombed the Irish last year. H4-29) or to UCLA. the perennial national champs. In­stend. Phelps is looking for seven good fights, and feels that his squad. after Wednesday's win, will he ready to play. 
"We'll have to fight for l'\'erything we get." he said. "Wp'lJ have to work and scrap and go after everyone we play. Nothing'll be easy. But it's good to get one under our belt, and that win should help us. it should juice us up. We should be ready against St. Louis. We've got to cut down on turnovers, and we've got to show some poise and some confidence at the end of our ball games. If we do­-and that's what we need--we'll pull some off. 
"W(' do have the toughest part of our schedule coming up. We 

the observer Friday, December 8, 1972 
Wrestlers host Wayne Sf. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
by Lefty Ruschmann 
Coach Terry Mather's wrestlers will set out tonight to even their dual meet record at 1-1 against Wayne State at 7:00 in the ACC auxiliary gym. Coach Mather, hoping to broaden interest in wrestling, has dubbed tonight's event "Freshman Night." 
Rookies will again be in evidence in the Irish lineup, and Coach Mather concedes that the key to Notre Dame's fortunes will be the first-timers' performance on the mats. "It all depends on how they do under combat conditions. If they perform as well in their matches as they did in the practice room. then we'll be all right." Mather. who admitted that inexperience cost the Irish their Valparaiso meet. said that "onf> more win by our rookies, any one or them, would have enabled us to beat Valpo." 
Mather, who started a total of eleven rookies in the wrestlers' first two contests, plans further lineup changes tonight. 118-pound Larry Semerad will spell Marc Ronquillo. who is still recovering from a concussion, and John Dowd is listed as the 190-pound starter, 

replacing Bob Latta, who 
sustained a knee injuryl Two other 
wrestlers earned starting berths, 
having displaced former starters 
in wrestle-off competitions during 
practice. Jack Casini will replace 
Pat O'Connor in the 150;pound 
event. while Mike Hochwald is 
slated to wrestle at 134 pounds in 
place of Steve Brichetto. 
Mather views the 118, 134 and 
150-pound events as the pivotal contests in tongiht's meet, since newcomers are slated to handle these weight classes. "Two wins in these three shoul give us the vic­. tory." the Irish mentor predicted. 
Following the Wayne State 
meet. Notre Dame will travel 
tomorrow to Wabash College to 
participate in a triangular meet 
with Manchester and Wabash 
Colleges. "We could either win two 
or lose two over the weekend," 
explained Mather. "Wabash was 
10-1 last year. their only loss being 
to us. I'm sure they'll be up for this 
one." Wabash is led by 142-pound 
star Ira Rouse, who will face Dave 
Boyer of the Irish. 
After the Wabash meet, Coach 
Mather's matmen will go on an 
extended break before heading 
ThP Notre Dame swimming team leaves this weekend for what could be their most important road trip of the year. The swimmers, coming off an opening-night win in the Notre Dame Relays, face two powerful Canadian squads over the weekend. squaring off against the llniversity of Waterloo Friday and facing Western Ontario on Saturday. The team from Western is especially strong, featuring a 

number  of  returning  Canadian  
Olympians.  
Waterloo.  which  was  the  host  

team for the Canadian national championships, is led by o:on­ference record holder GPI)Fgf! -Roy, who specializes in the 200-yard butterfly. Returning lettermen ~ive the-Warriors the look of a much improved squad. 
Diving, a strong point last season. is led by Brian Helko and Lester Newbry, who performed well in last year's national championships. 
Western Ontario, which dropped a 58-55 come-from-behind decision last-year-to the Irish, has improved steadily this _c:;eason. The 1\Iustangs' only defea~me at the hands of a Western Illinois on the basis on a close race in the last relay. 

Nine first-place winners from last year's Western squad return to l'ace the Irish again. Coached by Bob Enynon. former Canadian Coach of the Year, the Mustangs -look to improve upon last year's performance, which brought them l'ifth place in the Canadian nationals. 
The Mustangs will be led by co­captains Bill Kennedy and Harold Burton. Kennedy, a member of the 19i2 Canadian Olympic team, is the defending national champion in both the 100 and 200 yard butterfly t'vent. and the national record­holder in the 200-yard butterfly. Burton. who does the 100-yard freestyle in less than 50 seconds, could also pose problems for the Irish. 
Doug Darling. who swept the diving events in last year's dual meet and who placed high in the Canadian championships, is much improved over last year. 
Ken Fowler has twice won the Canadian national championship in the 200-yard breaststroke and has set the conference record in the 400-yard individual medly. He holds school records in both the 100 and 200-yard breastroke events, along with records in the 1000-yard freestyle and the 400-yard in­dividual medley events. 
south for a holiday tour, which includes three dual meets. The Irish will open at Florida Tech on 

• Volunteers to swim with a child from Lagan Center; especially
ND sw1mmers vis it Canada 
Friday. January 5, and will then travel to Orlando the next day to face a Georgia Tech squad which boasts two runners-up from last year's NCAA regional. The three­meet set concludes with a meet against Florida in Gainesville. The Gators last year posted a 15-2 record and won the Southeast Conference championship. 
Though Mather hopes to have all of his injured players back in time for the Florida trip, lack of practice time may handicap his squad. "We do down to Florida on the third and have only one day-­the fourth--to practice," he ex­plained. "They'll have the big jump on us." 
The Notre Dame coach cited depth as an important factor in this year·ssquad, conceding that "Last year. had we lost six men--which happened this season-we wouldn't have been able to have beaten anyone. We have a lot of balance, although many of our players are ·green· and are being pressed into service before they are ready." 
WANTED 
Need ride to Fla. after 10 p.m. on the 19th and riders from Fla. on Jan. 8th. Don, 3374. 
Desperately need ride to Philadelphia or thereabouts tor Xmas. Willing to leave on Dec. 19. 
Call Susan 4009. 
Wanted: Typing themes manuscripts. Call Jane Smith 233-6909. 
Wanted: off-campus housing for one chick next semester. Call 8996. 
Rider wanted to Oregon. Must share expenses. Leave December 19. Call 233-3893. 
Need apartment for one for next semester. Preferably close to campus and CHEAP. Call Rick 8284, Chris, 4964 or Larry-Paul 8276. 
Men and women students nePded to help get YWCA Home for girls ready to open. Some jobs are: painting bunk beds, cleaning floors. moving furniture, etc. Supplies are at the Home; just drop in and work. 520 North Lafayette. See Jay or JoAnn Powell. Or phone 233-9491 and ask tor Carol Wilken. 
week of Dec. 11-15. Call 7308. 
I need a ride to anywhere on the

Three freshmen--Wes McCon­
freestvle ace Jim Kane are all lost 
West Coast, i.e. California, from

nell. Murray Rose, and Bernie to the. Irish for this series. 
Miami after the Orange Bowl

Wie-Gosz--all of them outstanding 
qame. Will share driving, ex.
The Irish. when they return from 
penses, etc. I can't afford getting

relay performers-add punch to the 
Canada. will remain together in 
ripped off by the airlines! Please

Western lineup. 
practice until the end of final 
c a II Pete at 8253.
('Xams.

The Irish are wary of their trip to 
The swimmers will reopen their

Canada and have been bothered 
Need 2-5 Orange Bowl tickets.
home schedule on Tuesday night, 
Will pay. Call Andy 6827.

by injuries and illnesses. Bob 
.January 16. against Western

Thompson, Paul Carry, and Michigan. 
Need riders to Albany. Leaving Dec. 20. also. Need roommate for off campus 2nd semester. Call Kevin 232-2146. 


Ride needed for 2 to O'Hare on Dec. 19. Tuesday after 3 pm. Paul 7861-Tom 8636. 
Wanted: 4 non-student Orange Bowl tickets·to buy or trade for four student tickets, Don, 3374. 
FOR SALE 
Sell new Kneissl White-Wing skis, 185 em bindings, $80 first call. 232­0627.

Christmas Gift Certificates 
Beginners & Intermediates Our Specialty 
For sale: '64 Ford Galaxy 500, $250 great condition, a real

Complete Cross-Country & Downhill 
trucker! 289-5940. 

Great pre-season packages 
CHRISTMAS SPECIAL. $10 off

Bindings mounted FREE 
reg_ price of new Westinghouse

Mon.-Fri. Sat. Sun. 
Compact Refrigerators. 4.4 cu. ft.

SHOP HOURS n-9 9-9 12-6 
cap., free delivery. CALL NOW! 234-0578 or 232-2618. Ask for 
Tome.

Next to PARTY SHOPPES in Roseland 
For sale: reliable old friend 64 Chevy,S275orbestoffer. Call Ski 233.1547. 
Best buys for Xmas. G.E. por­table stereo, $60.; underwood portable typewriter, $70. Both A­1. 259-9766.


PLACEMENT BUREAU 
For sale: head skis, poles, foam

Main Bulldln& 
boots, and Grand Prix bindings. 
S225 or best offer; call Steve 6715.

The last opportunity for participating in the computer­
matching program, GRAD II, ia now in effect at the 
Plaeement Bureau. 
New Years Eve fireworks for sale. Send name and telephone

It is only for students who did not participate in the October matching group and for thoae who have chanaed 
number to Box 685 NO, Indiana 
-16556.

their career objective. Co.puter forma are available 
at the Place.ent Bureau. The deadline for turning in the completed forma ia Thursday, December 14, 1972. 
18'' B &W TV, Montgomery Wards. Used for two years, ex­

(Stud2nta who submitted GRAD II forme in October and have not yet picked up their print•outa ahould do ao now 
cellent condition. Call 255-6553 

at the Place.ent Bureau, Room 222, Administration Building.) 
evenings. 

The following employers are participating in the GRAD II 
For sale: a 1958 Morris Minor for
progro•: 
parts with a 1961 Austin Healy engine. Very, very reasonable. Call 259-3573 after 6 pm.

U1Z-nn 
Raleigh 10 speed, with extras. 4

AC'Tiotl {l•e'_..t' Corp"/vi:jlA) 
Altr:na tlh alld Caa~l ty 
tnhnd suer CollpHY Aa:vay Ilk. Iuttt\lte for Defe•ue I'Ulu:lyu•• 
months old. S90. 233-8855. 

Ah•Jm• t:0111pany of Merl~:• lntarnltl-•1 •~U:t•••• liachtucl Corp. AlaerJc•n Cyan-id Co-.~ny 
111• Jonu 5 tor• Co.paf~J 
s. s. luau ~;.,..,., 
For Sale: Girl's three speed

~r~~-Tal•phone altd Tdaauph Co. 
AIUTDl lndu•triaa, Inc. 
Leoda Mid tto~o·ttu•op t.nelyUt S.rvtces 1111:. Ll...rty 11utual hlvronce <"o.pany 
bicycle. Runs good. One owner. 
u••eb co.p • .,. 

App lt!N MY}J iu Lllboruory tl( tM 
Cheap. Notre Dame blazer with

L1Koh llloth•n•l Uta I•1uraaee C"t>. ltlantt(' RtdoHeld CCillpony 
Joh"' HopkJna l1Aivua1~J 
,..__., J. u,toa, IDC. 
monogram. Size 38. Call 1979.

Lltto. Syu.,.. • D.tt.t Syu~ fd\"J· IMI la;~~tl'r Lllbt>reto~rtf's, Ia<.. Lo• Al-.:.• Seh·atlfh Llboratory ,., f!M ••II nl r..nna7l"anta 
IM!cocl •nd WUCGJII (~any 
•••h•ultp o! c..t!!..-rni, 'nl4 lel\dh CoTporatt.,n 
l.uUOM !l•ctt01111CI 
LOST AND FOUND 
.....~fKturt"rl MM~CVer TtUJU 1............

Thr llM>Iaa Co.p.a"'f 
Keruhon Oil Co.pany ·

lurrouc"s c::orpor.u totl 
MlchiJIIft r:nnsolld.:~tNI l':.t:~o '(lt.pltlJ

Cato:rplll'lt Tractor C~·•ft)' 
l'li)nllato ~;.,_,..,.,. 
Lost: rabbit's fur hat (MadCap).

Calan.••• t.orpora' ion 
Hatu•l llent-fU Llh• lnlut•net· CO!l?:.ry Ctlrylur C:orponttort 
Ch-,ion Jnter~Yt lv""'l CurpuraUon 
lluh Finch c...,..,. 
Reward $10.00. Rosetta M. 

c~-•lth Altoc!ar:.. lne. lhtl...,l C11h ••a1stu (CorporueJ c-olld.tt.-4 Elil•oa 'oet>•~ of ~ev Yor• ..u...a ......,,.," •"' h••• •-• 
Kerrigan, 2701 Lake Shore Drive, 

Dtoart afl4 COIIIpU)' ...t10t11l S•curltJ -'&IHICJ 
Michigan City, Indiana 46360.

-.u'*-1 IU•I corpouuoa Dvw Cb..tcal U. S. A. 
a. II. Oonn.ll.y and Sot11 (~any • 
"-•l "-'-ilion Dil'POt Dov CornJna Corporallon 
...,_. Or<llnanc • IAbonton Dra" Cor,ou1t ion ....., Inti au Tel•"""-c-...'!Y 
Lost -pink cameo ring Fri., Dec.,
l'ol-v Yor• Ltf• IDIIIfiiiU (O.,IRJ

I. I . 4u float tla "'-uu &n4 Ct:~~~~pa"" 
IIIIJIII'I .-..rh:an llock••ll

EIJIJto 5f'rvlc.•s, J~. 
1. Call Beth 4679. 

.lau-n l'odaa ":~I"Y n.. l*lao lraa• C.-p.aay !ra1t and Enuc • St, Louis 
Olt• Ccn-poraU.on [r•st •nd Ert~ll -CICYtllnod ()n'n•·Conlrw F11Jer&loo Cor,_.,r•tiOfl rMC • Llnk·B•It Spud•r Otvuton 
Owen•-lll1aolllo, Inc. 
Lost . 1 pair of green girl's mit­
Ot!ford Taduotriu lnc.

Flehlcn!t !'!Ills, Inc. 
fill(; Illllu.~lrlea, JDC. 
tens. Call Dan 8810.

Firat l-l•th;tr>O) 81nk Ul IJalill' 
Fonl Motor co-.-any r-DOJh•ot.a r-: .cr.~ l!~!-t Ge•nol H•urle C.-p•ny Geaerol :!Ucors Corpoutton 
==~~:::.::-' £~::!~, c=~• Cc~.,r·, 

Found: Burlington high school Tb. Cooclyur Tue lnd kl.dtbu COIIIPOIIY ••t. .aM M••• c.-,.any 
lldlo Co.-pc~ratll;ta. of ~rico
Gold Kht JJK:. 
class of '72 ring -red stone -call
'ftw Sh.-11 c..,..,..,

Cult Oil torporatl.o11 
Soutken leU T•lephort. C.-pany

fla.llton "iundard, Div. or U•JtMI Alrcufc 
6167.
1-ouu• E1lta6t. COII!p.tll)l

lll..:ah(hfra•r corporauo. 
TT.,..t C~any of Ceor1t•M.tn:la ~....1c-ondlltt()f 

UAJCO l~~eorJOr.tted
H.tsk1n• 011n.J Sri Ia UaioJI (lrblde C.oYpor1t1011

H-l•tt·P3ckar;J t:~•ny 
Found: glasses outside O'Shag.
Unl.,n on ~~t. or C.thf -t•u~rn 't•~r,.o.l

t1•JCI'It'l Alrc-ralt 1 011pany 
Wll!ltl"'hovsc-El•ctrlc C<lrpctr•tion 
Call and identify 1152.

tlu.ble fHI ond ltrltnlnt Co.pofty 
u:aox corpout ton 
10/10/ll 
Lost: N D spiral, Western European history, notebook. Desperate. Call Chuck 1782. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Gold -rimmed glasses in black case. Lost Tues. night between Nieuwland and Towers. Bob 6939. 
Lost: Cross ball point pen and Shaeffer silver fountain pen in periodical room of Library Saturday night. Large reward offered. If found, please call 1979. 
FOR RENT 
Furnished house with six bedrooms and two baths available January. Call 234-9364. 
Bedroom in private home. One .mile from NO. All privileges of comfortable home including cooking and washing facilities. 272-2445 after 7 pm or anytime 
weekends. 
NOTICES 
The Ombudsman service will close for the semester on Friday, December 8 at 3 pm. That's today! 
If 21, call Wilson Driveaways for a car to drive home at Xmas. Kevin 3460 . Murph 3530. 
'Walsh', Notre Dame' T-shirts on sale in Walsh Hall office Thurs. 6­9, Fri 1-4. $2.50. 
Before you buy a ring for a gift or engagement call James 3133. It may save you a great deal. 

•
EUROPE! Lowest rates to all European cities' Daily flights from N.Y., Chicago, D.C. Philadelphia and others. British Overseas Aireays 
Corp. Call Clark, 283-8810 for details. 
Interested in participating in gay <1wareness discussion groups? Write.to Gay Awareness, care of, the Observer. P.O. Box Q, Notre Oame, Ind. 
Christmas Loans! Not uue until J<muary 19th. Morrissey Loan Fund. Open until Dec. 13. Monday-Friday 11:15-12:15. La Fortune Basement. 
Will the men who borrowed our reference material on recycling return it or call 288-4664 Mr. Eggleston. 
Speaking of BLONDES -Girls 
willing to help us add some accent 
to our SWEDISH 
SMORGASBORD, contact Pat 
Joyce at the South Dining Hall, 
6147, before Friday, Dec. 8th. 
Dinner will be provided as well for 
any St. Mary's girl who can help. 
It'll be fun -so how 'bout it! 
VALKOMMEN 
There will be a Graduate Student Union meeting Friday 12 noon in 127 N.S.H. All delegates please plan to attend. 
.Job. short hours. please call 2:J:l-i949. after 11 pm. 
PERSONALS 
A very Merry Christmas to the Observer staff with love from your "Mom". P.S. you'll find candy under the tree. 
Happy 21st birthday, Hands. Wish I could be there to help you celebrate. Love, Susie 
For a fun time, with a fun, fun girL call 4764 ask for Kamper. Thru 12-20. 
Pat, 
Thanks for the Thumbtacks. 
Come & get your candy cane. 
Den Mother of the bad class, Thanks. Catch? Cronin's blokes 
Darryl!: we bring tidings of great joy: (victory). Guardian angles. 
Merry Christmas and Happy New Year to the Observer subscription staff, "Mom", and all the other deviants of the paper. 
Art the Wop. 
Theresa Gildner: Joy, peace, love, happiness and all good things to you during this Christmas Season. (good luck with your french! l Your Kris 
Kringle 
Mom: we all like your candy! Thank you!!! 
David: I hope you enjoy your stay at NO this weekend. Your reservations are in at the Grace Towers, Hotel. 
Fire Up Harry! DES 



Friday, December 8, 1972 the observer 
project. Through police-youth dialogue,workshops and activities for all age groups, this project works to create an atmostphere of understanding and brotherhood.
A vast remodeling 
The "Older Adults Center," created by the social committee, provides opportunities for recreation and social contact for the senior citizens of the Neighborhood. (20 percent of Neighboorhood residents are over 62 vears old).
of one-tenth of SB 
· 
"The 'Older Adult Center' provides a weekly noon meal for the older residents not only for the nutritional value, but also for the socialization benefits," said Mrs. Pope. "Many of these senior citizens are very lonely 
(continued from page 2) 
and this socialization is exactly what they need," she added. 
aiming at a 60 percent increase in the number of owner occupied homes. 
The "Police Neighborhood Liaison Officers" project aims at giving the ....~e Neighborhood residents will guide the Urban Renewsal program Neighborhood constructive contact with police officers. The goal of this through a project called "Planning and Action Devlelopment Team, project is to reduce crime and delinquency.
Inc." 
"The idea of positioning police officers in the Neighborhood schools
Physical Improvement 
proved so effective that the Police Department and the School Board 
The people of the Neighborhood lack facilities and opportunities for have taken over the project," said Pope. recreation. Their streets are dirty and depressing and cry out for more Other social committee projects are geared to satisfy the psychological effective ctiy services. The MNPA committee on Physical Improvement and bodily health needs of the Neighborhood residents. concern themselves with projects that will beautify the Neighborhood Success of Model Cities through active involvement of residents. "If we haven't accomplished another thing, we have sparked citizen
The "Expanded City Services" project aims at bringing city services in participation in community action," stresses Sister Dian, member of the the Neighbrohood up to the standards enjoyed by other areas of the City. 
City Demonstration Agency staff.

To date. there is complete absence of a regular city trash collection, "If this same concept of citizen participation could carry over to allresultingin a situation where less than 50 percent of the Neighbothood has revenue sharing projects, may problems would be solved."
weekly trash collection. Approximately 35 percent of the streets are While many of the projects that were begun in the first two years havepoorly paved, and 40 percent of City and County owned lots in the Neigh­been dropped, it is not because they were failures. "Many agencies, both borhood are filled wit litter and degris. 
public and private simply cannot take over the projects without ModelThe "Expanded Recreational Facilities" project works to expand the Cities' Funding," said Cynthia Haynes, Evaluation Co-ordinator of Modelrecreational facilities at the Neighborhood schools so they may be used Cities.
for residents of all ages. A 1.9 acre park and recreation area has been "In these cases we have to reevaluate our priorities and work on adeveloped in a central location in the Neighborhood. · project that can continue indefinitely without financial support from 
~ocial Services 
Model Cities." 

The scope of the Social Services committee is broader than the other Hollis Hughs, Jr., current director of Model Cities, demands that the MNPA subcommittees in that it encompasses three distinct1areas: Social project has to have the right to fail in order to be successful. Servies, Crime and Delinquincy and Health Servies. The common thread "In the two and a half years.if its existence, Model Cities has brought 36 between each of these areas is poverty in the Neighborhood. million dollars into the area," Lennon stated. 
The problem of legal aid in minor criminal cases1as well as civil cases 
Notre Dame Involvement 
constitutes a major problem in the Neighborhood. The "Expanded Legal Notre Dame students are eligible to work with Model Cities as part ofServices" project was created to attack this problem. 
the 1work-studies program sponsored by the Urban Institute. The"We went one step further than the Legal Aid services of South Bend in students may do anything from preparing housing surveys to organizingthat we receive legal representation in juvenile criminal cases through block clubs.
the 'Expanded Legal Aid Services,"' stated Helen Pope, social com­To become eligible for this work-studies opportunity, a student must
mittee planner and full time employee of Model Cities. Racism and racial conflict are targets of the "Human Relations" ' (continued on page 20) 
THIS WINTER RECESS, TWA HAS THE BEST WAYS 
-
TO DO EUROPE YOUR OWN WAY. 
TWA. IF YOU WANT GREAT CITY AND SKI PACKAGES. 
Cities like London, Paris, Rome and Amsterdam. For example, for only $50.00 plus airfare, you can get 7 days in London. Including a room with private bath, breakfast, four tickets to the London theatre, free admission to six discos and much more. 
Or, there are our Great Ski Packages to places like St. Moritz, Zermatt and Innsbruck. Like for only $68.00 plus airfare, you can get 7 days at St. Moritz. Including chalet accommodations, breakfasts, transfers, taxes and tips. 
TWA. IF YOU WANT TO GO IT ALONE. 
Only TWA gives you Stutel pass.* A coupon booklet that gets you a room and Continental breakfast in a guesthouse or student hotel in any of 52 cities for only $4.30 a night, no reservations needed. Plus tickets good for meals, concerts, bullfights and much more. 
TWA. FOR FREE BONUSES WORTH OVER $40.00. 
Fly to London or Paris on TWA (whether on a tour or on your own), and you can get a coupon booklet worth over $40.00 of freebees. A free membership and drink at an nin" wndon club, free motorcycle rental in Paris and on and on. Plus hundreds ofdollars worth ofgreat discounts. 
TWA. FOR THE ONLY FREE CREDIT CARD AT AGE 18. 
It's called our Getaway* Card. With it you can charge airfare, TW.N.s Great City and Ski Packages, Stutel pass, meals and much more in Europe. For more information, including TW.N.s free Winter Recess Brochure, stop at any TWA counter or see your Travel Agent. 
~ 
// ' 

ITWAl 
~ 


*Stutelpass and Getaway are service marks owned exclusively by TWA. 
-<!"-:-:.-.....~.::-.... -.-.-.-.·-:-:-:•..:~::;:::.:·: ·: 


<~:t .1. '·-::-·: 
.. · --· •.·. :;::;::~· . 

.;{,.TURN .IN YOun;;,:;:;;.......,"""' 
. 


_ OF YOUR CHOICE. 
? 
. ·:::t 
and other bonuses 


Tonight: South Dining .Hall.. 
··.:­
5:00-6:30 

::•t Monday: 
North Dining Hall 
5:00-6:30 
TWA youth cards are good on Z6 different National and. In­ternational Airlines 

' ALSO: APPLY 
FOR FREE AIRLINE CREDIT CARD 
all proceeds go to Sister Marita's school. 
for more info, call 
Dan Sheehan 
283-3610 

' 
I 



20 

the observer 
j 



Federal funds 
REVISED LAND USE AND THOROUGHFARE PLAN 
dec.'6'"

make 
this area's best source of authentic scandinavian furniture 
is a new store specializing in


Earth Design 
Contemporary Design 










for a 
,. 

better South Bend 
!continued from page 19) 
have approval of both his department advisor and the Urban Studeies Department. He is required to work three hours with the program for everv one hour of credit he receives. 
"T.he students have been generally well received by the Neighborhood planners, and may have been in­Yolved in major jobs." said Profvessor John Roos, of the Government department, who has been actively involved in the work-studies program. 
Jim N1oynihan. a senior in History and Urban Studies works with Model Cities and Community Development of South Bend through the work-studies program. 
"It gives me a chance to put to use what I've been learning for the past three years," said Moynihan eommenting on his work with Model Cities. 

The Model Cities appropriations are scheduled for termination in 1975. But the ideas of Model Cities will not terminate with the appropriations. Hopefully other public: and private agencies will take over the wor­thwhile projects that the program has created. 
The newly instituted Community Development Agency. headed by Charles Lennon, is preparing South Bl'nd for further Federal Revenue Sharing. 
The 701 Comprehensive Plan, a 77,000 dollar per year Federal grant to cities. is aimed at providing more Ia titude to locally elected officials in determining how Fedral appropriations will be spent. 
South Bend city officials consider the citizen in­\'olvement that is demonstrated in Model Cities, t>ssential for all community development projects. And through more flexibility in spending Federal appropriations, they hope to put this citizen ,·olvement to work on a city-wide basis. 



100 CENTER 700 block of L WW Mishawaka, lnd 
259-9321 







