.---~--~ 


On The Inside 
Walsh elects executive 
board 
... page 2 Polls show Nixon ahead 
..• page 3 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Monday, September 25, 1972
Vol. VII No. 12 

Moynihan tabbed 

Brademas hints at appointment 
By Ann Therese Darin Campus News Editor 
U.S. Congressman John Brademas (D-Ind, 3rd. l hinted Friday evening that D. Patrick 
. Moynihan, former domestic counselor to President Nixon will be appointed as director of the newly-created National Institute of Education ( NIE l. 
In a speech which kicked off the third season of American Scene lectures sponsored by the St. Mary's Education Department, Brademas highlighted education-oriented legislation passed by the 91st congress. 
As chairman of the House Sub-Committee on Education, the seven-term congressman has sponsored legislation on child care, the National Institute of Education, and the Higher Education Bill. He spent a majority of his 45-minute speech in Carroll Auditoriun explaining the mechanics of the proposed laws to an audienceestimatedat 300. 
Sandwiched in his remarks on NIE, proposed by President Nixon in 1970 as a "vehicle for supporting research and development on every level of education," according to the Sub­Committee Chairman, was the reference to Moynihan. 
'NIE': Moynihan's Idea 
"It is significant because this was his (Moynihan's l idea when hewas a White House Advisor," Brademas said. 
According to Brademas, the Institutecould close the gap between money allocated to defense research and educational research. 
The newly-designated regent of St. Mary's college, quoted statistics which showed that ten percent of the Defense Department's budget is allocated for research, five per cent of HEW's budget is spent on health research. Only one-


John Brademas Daniel Moynihan 
third of one percent is funded for educational 
experimentation and development. 

Congressman Brademas also revealed that NIE will negotiate contracts and grants which universities and colleges to do research for the Institute. 
Child Care Endorsed 

Endorsed by the Democratic and GOP National Conventions earlier this year, the Child Care Law, another recently-presented education-oriented law which Brademas singled 
out, will be open to children on all socioeconomic levels. In Brademas's estimation, the proposed Child Care Centers will be "family-centered, "locally-controlled" units. These centers are important, stressed Brademas, since there are 6 
million pre-schoolers whose mothers work. The Higher Education Bill which Brademas clai.med would benifit St. Mary's and neigh­bormg Notre Dame , substantially will give aid to college students and colleges and universities on the financial level. 
Students first 

''The Federal Government is definitely committed. to a policy of students for higher education funding," contended the Harvard graduate and Rhodes scholar·. Specifics for legislation: the Basic Educational Opportunity Grants Program and the National Student Loan Corp. ate still in the debate stage. In his remarks, Brademas noted that private colleges apd universities educate 26.4 per cent of the national college student population. 
After the speech, Brademas was questioned by a student on whether there are jany provisions for graduate students in the Higher Education Bill. Brademas replied that there has been no change in present graduate student allocations. 
Asked about what the government is doing to insure that college graduates will have suitable 
employment after graduation, responded that the matter wass consideration in the congress.  Brademas still under  
Straddled Parochiaid  
He  straddled  the  parochiaid  issue  by  

remarking that "the parochiaid issue isn't being trea~ed as an education matter, but rather as a tax ISSUe." 
Brademas isolated the single drawback to all parochiaid proposals as the Constitution. "We've got to figure out assistance that's con­sitituti~nal," he said. In indiana, this year, parochial schools are receiving textbooks and­
(continued on page 7)
. . 


~oodcock opposes neW" W"ellare systezn 
by Art Ferranti 
United Auto Workers In­ternational Union President Leonard Woodcock voiced his disapproval over the new welfare proposal of the Nixon ad­ministration in a brief press conference last Saturday. 
Terming the proposal to eliminate welfare in exchange for a job at $2.00 per hour as "regressive", Woodcock said that "grave social problems" were involved since this would force women with small dependent children to work. The implications of this action, said Woodcock, would be carried onto the next generation. 
-Adding that there is enough work in the country to get those on welfare who can work employed, Woodcock said that if the "private sector can't do it, then the government as the employer of last resort should." 
Woodcock was touring Indiana speaking with U.A.W. members concerning the reasongs behind his endorcement of the McGovern­Shriver ticket. Said Wood­cock,"We've turned the corner. I think it's coming along We -still have problems. The facts are beginning to register with the working people. We're moving." 
Basing non-support concerning McGovern onthe fact that the presidential candidate "is an unknown quantity" to the working people, Woodcock said McGovern has clarified his policies, par­ticularly those concern;.ng taxation, full-employment, and income support for welfare recipients due to the allegations of his shifting positions and fence straddling, and due to the misin­formation about him. 
Woodcock held the conference at the Albert Pick Motor Inn in South Bend between speaking engagements at two U.A.W. halls in the ~outh Bend-Elkhart area. 

Register that bike! 
.. .details on page 6 
2 
the observer Monday, September 25, 1972 
No Hall President 


Walsh elects executive board 
by Bill McGinn Observer Staff Reporter 
Ignoring the traditional offices of Hall President and Vice President,. the women of Walsh Hall opted to elect an innovative hall govern­ment structure in the form of an executive board. 
The board elected consisted of Sue Anderson, Peggy Pollara, Kathy Cahill, and Terry Skeehan. Walsh voters also selected Lynn Larkin and Chris Burger for the customary positions of Secretary and Treasurer. 
Declaring a commitment to democratic principles, the executive board decided that their Chairwoman should be chosen by the members of the Hall Council. Since elections for section leaders are today, votes for the first Chairman will not be cast until Wednesday. All members of the new executive board will attend the HPC meetings, with the voting power being limited to the

r 
Chairwoman.

r 
At present the newly elected executive board has no definite programs or explicit plans to

t 
implement. Instead, the board, according to Sue Anderson, will present their many ideas to the residents of Walsh Hall for their final deliberation by referendum. Such topics as regulation of parietal hours, the establishment of a food class, the operation of a concession stand, practice fire drills, and alumni visits to the hall will be decided upon by a majority vote of the residents of Walsh. 
Board members stressed that communication (intrahall, in­terhall, and university-wise) is the foundation for the realization of Notre Dame women's unlimited potential. 
Sue Anderson declared that the board's first priority is the establishment of communication within Walsh Hall. She illustrated that this could be done by section meetings and inter-section parties. 
the Observer Is publiShed dally · during the college semester ex· cept vacations by the students of ttt.Onlverslty of Notre Dame~ 
1 
.st•. Mary's College. Subllcr~pt
F..,_y .be purchased for 11. . · , 
141m*Ster from The Obser~, Q, Notre Dame. ln'dlena· .;; Setond class postage pa.., •• ,
Deme, incl. 46556. ~ · .", 



The Executive Board of Walsh Ha II: Terry Skeehan, Kathy 
N  
0 T R E  w :I: NDt- 
D  SMC  
A M  THEATRE  
E  
SEASON 1972  

(An activity of the Cooperative Department of Speech and drama of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College) 
Five Plays 
THE LION IN WINTER by James Goldman Oct.6, 7, 12,13, 14at8:30pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Season Subscriptions 
SUMMER AND SMOKE by Tennessee Williams Nov. 10, 11, 16, 17, 18at8:30pm Washington Hall 
s 
A I 
N 
T 
M 
A 
R 
Y' 
s 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATE 
AFTER THE RAIN by John Bowen Feb. 16, 17, 22, 23, 24 at 8:30pm Washington Hall 
FIVE PLAYS $6.50 
THE MAGIC FLUTE by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (in association with SMC Music Dept.) April6, 7, 12, 13, 14 at 8:30pm O'Lauohlin Auditorium 
$2.00 OFF REGULAR PRICE 
YOU'RE A GOODMAN, CHARLIE BROWN by Clark Gesner April 26, 27, 28, 29 
May 3, 4, 5, 6 at 8:30 pm April 28 and May S.at 2:30pm Little Theatre, Moreau Hall 
..................................................i.Qr.9.f.r..~.tftnk)...........................................~ 
Name  .class_  
Address--------------------------------­ 
City.__________,tate____  Zip_  
Please send _____student subscriptions at $6.50  
Totals_  __.~  
~  Indicate date choice for ~ach  play  
=  
~  1st Fri.  1st Sat.  2nd Thu.  2rid Fri.­ 2nd Sat. 

i 
(PI~se choose alternate date Charlie Brown)
I: Enclose chec-k for total 
Eamount due and a stamped-Mal! to: Eaddressed envelope for return ND"SMC . Theatre, Notre:.= ;of the tickets Dame, lnd1an11 46556 
4 . s I wuwwww..... ....___­

Your average reading speed probably ranges between 150 and 300 words per minute. Graduates of the Reading Dynamics course read and study at i1£1st 3 to 6 times faster then that. And the average graduate of our course actually improves com. prehension over 10 per cent. 
Thousands of college students are Reading 
Dynamics graduates, including over 1,000 at Notre Dame, Indiana Universtiy, and Purdue. This is the same basic course that first received national recogniton when President John F. Kennedy invited Evelyn Wood to the White House to teach her system to top level staff personnel. Recently, President Nixon's staff took the Reading Dynamics 
Course. 
The best way to find out about the remarkable 
Reading Dynamics course is to come to a free 
Ml NI-Lesson. At this you'll learn what it's like to be 
able to read and study 3 to 6 times faster. You Will 
see 0 short. enjoyable movie and have all your 
questions answered. 

ATTEND 
A Free Speed Reading Lesson 
Increase your reading speed 
50 to 100% on the spot. 
TODAY & TOMMORROW 
6 and 8 pm 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 

NOTRE DAME AVENUE 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 
She then hopes that com­munication between Walsh and Badin could be improved. She suggested that each hall exchange representatives at their Hall Council meetings in an effort to achieve this goal. 
Executive board members also advocated an expanding role for Notre Dame women. They thought this could be best achieved by encouraging their fellow female students to join existing campus organizations. They indicated that their priorities lie first with Walsh Hall, and then with the other organizations. The board mem­bers thought that their potential could be best achieved by starting with hall government and then expanding outward to campus and community activities. 
Cahill, Pollara. 



---------------------------------,.--., 
Monday, September 25, 1972 
the observer 
3 

warld briefs 
<c> 1!17:! New York Times 

Saigon--President Nguyen Van Thieu of South Vietnam has come out of the !972 Communist offensive more powerfully in control of the Saigon Govern­ment than ever before. Most American Vietnamese observers of the Thieu government believe that the president has so firmly established hispowerthat he has left no room for an effective non-communist opposition. 
NPw Ym·k--Voter preference for President Nixon grew so much in the last month of summer that he took the lead over Sen George McGovern even among registered democrats, according to a 16-state electoral vote survey of the New York Times. The survey, conducted throughSept.l2, found that Nixon moved to a 39-point margin of 62 to 23 per cnet. A parallel survey a month earlier found a 28-pointNixon margin of 56 to 28 per cent. 
Nl'w York--College graduates are likely to find the job market tighter through the 1970's than in recent decades, according to a federal labor of­ficial. The job-hunting college graduate whose studies have been most relevant to the requirements of the labor market, he believes, should have "less dificulty in job adjustment" in the years immediately after graduation than the graduate whose academic work has been less relevant. 
an campus taday 
7:30 -·duplicate bridge fall trophy tournament, rathskellar 
8:00 and 10:00 --movie museum without walls series, "grotto and the prerenaissance ( 8: 00}" "crete ·and mycenae (10:00}", engineering auditorium, general $2.00, students $1.50. 


at nd-smc: 

Poll shows Nixon's popularity increasing 
by Jack Rosenthal research company, for the New survey that McGovern may have survey was that, if the election had among Catholics, 36 points among ((') l!ln New York Times York Times. They differ from narrowed the Nixon margin during just been held, Nixon would have independents, 43 points among(New York, Sept. 24--Voter other political polls because they early September, but this shift was won by a landslide among virtually middle-income voters, 47 points
preference for President Nixon are subdivided by state, per­so small that it could be explained all ages, social classes, income 
among Italian-Americans, 51 

grew so much in the last month of mitting appraisal of the potential by sampling error. levels, nationalities and regions. 
points among Protestants and 54 

the summer that he took the lead electorial vote as well as the The over-all verdict of the new The President led by 34 points points in the South. over Sen. George S. McGovern popular vote. even among registered In some states Nixon widened his • Democrats, according to a new 16-pop ularity even more 
Shriver ca1npa1gn changes
state electoral vote survey. dramatically than in the entire The survey, conducted through sample. In Texas, the spread was (c) 1!172 New York Times Nevada and Arizona. cheering Democrats gathered at Sept. 12, found that Nixon moved to 53 points--71 percent for Nixon, 18 Tucson. Ariz., -Sept. 24--Staff members insist the new the studentcenter of the University a 39-point margin of 62 to 23 per-percent for McGovern, and 11 Combining showmanship with a style has "naturally evolved" over of Nevada at Las Vegas late cent. A parallel survey a month percent undecided. slashing attack on the Nixon ad-the weeks of the campaign and Saturday afternoon. earlier found a 28-point Nixon Even in New York, which ministration, Sargent Shriver reflects no strategy decision, but Pounding the lectern for em-margin of 56 to 26 percent. traditionally votes Democratic in seems to have discovered a new the change was an abrupt one. phasis. Shriver attacked the man The 16 states surveyed are the presidential elections, the new campaign style during his Only four days ago those traveling he hoped to replace, Vice Nation's largest. They account for survey found a Nixon lead of 57-26. weekend swing through the South-with Shriver were describing a President Agnew. two-thirds of the total electoral This 31-point margin compared west. speech in Cleveland as "probably "I resent the whole idea a man vote. A total of 2,329 registered with a 17-point Nixon lead in the Denouncing Vice President the single dullest minutes in recent can live all his life, he's 57 now, be voters were interviewed by first survey. In New Jersey, the Agnew's "phony Madison Avenue" political history." Governor of a state, and then go to telephone in the new survey. Nixon spread increased from 30 image and sarcastically Shriver's traveling staff was Washington as Vice President and The surveys are among a points to 34, and in Connecticut mimicking statements by surprised by the new fervor and suddenly become a totally new series conducted by Daniel from 30 points to 39. President Nixon, Shriver joked the sharpness of the attack in the Th · d" t" · th d"d t ' h (continued on page 7)
Y;=an~k~e=lo~v~ic=h=·~I=nc=·~·=a~m~a~j~or__s~__v_e~y_____e_r_e_w_a_s__a_n_I_n_I_c_a_Io_n__In___e__~a~n=d~ja~b~b~ed~h~is~w~a~y~th~r~ou~g~h~T~e~x~a~s~ __c_a~n_I__a~e_s~s~p-~~c~~to~s~o~m~e~7~00~----------------------~ 

STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 
ANNOUNCES A 






PROHIBITION HOMECOMING 
(a Ia Bonnie & Clyde) We'll make Make You An Offer You Can't Refuse! 
PROHIBITION PARTY 
STEPAN CENTER, FRIDAY OCT. 13, 8:30 pm 1:OOam, COMPLETE with 
20piece Brass Band, Buffet Dinner, OldTime Cars, 1920's Decor, 
etc. etc., etc. All for only $5.00 per couple, if you buy "Guess Who" 
.Concert Tickets. ($6.00 per couple if you only buy the Party tickets. 
"GUESS WHO" CONCERT TICKETS 2 select $5.50 or $3.00 tickets for Saturday Night 
l 1 

are available for anyone purchasing prohibition party tickets. 
PITT FOOTBALL TICKETS To make it a complete weekend the first 250 couples purchasing 
Prohibition. Party Tickets have the option of purchasing two $8.00 
General AdrnJssion Football Tickets. These tickets WILL NOT BE 
SOLD\individually at any other time. 
The ENTIRE Homecoming Package includes $5.00 for Party tickets $11.00 or $6.00 for 
concert tickets and $16.00 for football tickets $32.00 or $27.00 total for a good old time Homecoming weekend. 
Tickets on sale beginning Wed., Sept . 27 at 3:00pm in the Fiesta Lounge and then in Student Union Office 
4:00 to 5:00pm every day. 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER  
News: 283-1715 EditoriaI: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471  John Abowd Editor-in-chief Don Ruane Executive Editor  Dan Thornton Business Manager Joe Butler Advertising Manager  

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Monday, September 25. 1972 
Register--­Your Bikes 

The scene: a rare, beautiful af­ternoon on the campus of Notre Dame. Students are languidly strolling along the byways, the buses are generously polluting the air, the clock on Sacred Heart tolls the half-hour. Classes are assembled on various patches of grass and line upon line of bicycles are at attention along the wire fences. 
Enter the villain: a calm, confident youth with a small pair of wire cutters palmed in his right hand. He bends over an obviously expensive bike and fiddles with the lock as he expertly snips the chain. Wrapping the remains of the chair naturally around his neck, he mounts and cheerfully rides off, satisfied that his bank account will rise about $75.00 today. 
A common scene, with the campus having developed a great interest in bike riding in the last few years, one that is becoming more common than a lot of people want it too, like the vic­tims of bike theft. 
Fact: There are more bikes on campus this year than ever before. 
Fact: Most of the bikes now on campus are the more expensive kind, reflecting the status of most Notre Dame students and the needs of the serious cycler. 
Fact: There have been over 20 bikes stolen from the campus already this fall. 
That the third fact can almost be taken as a conclusion of the first two is alarming. Obviously, some measures have to be taken to protect what have become major investments of students. 
Arthur Pears had the right idea when he described added security measures to be taken last week in an Observer news story: plans for new racks and better lighting around all the racks. But the responsibility doesn't lie solely on the shoulders of the Security Department; the owners themselves must take an active part in protectingtheir property. 
They'll get a chance to do just that this week. On the first floor of LaFortune from 3:30 to 7:00 every day this week, bike owners can register their bikes both with local campus security and South Bend authorities, and with a national company who makes it their business to cut down on bike thefts. The service will cost $. 75 for local registration and $1.75 for national. 
Taking over a job that security . started, the Farley Cyclers have a big task ahead of them. But they can only accomplish it with the help of the bike owners. 
Sure it costs some money. Somebody's . got to pay for all the supplies involved. But this $. 75 can turn out to be worth more than all those insurance premiums bike owners pay if a stolen bike is found, for a found bike without identification does no one any good. 
Take advantage of the Farley Cyclers and the Security Department. It's really pretty cheap. Register yourbike. 
Joseph Abell 


Because of the weather in South Bend, all Freshmen must pass a swim test. 

Out On The Weekend 

Panty Larceny 

bab hi1J1Jins 

Last week's panty raid, the first to incorporate dorms on every campus of 0 ur Lady, may bring to pass a new era in underwear selection for the men of Notre Dame. 
Congratulations are definitely in order for the raid's organizers for 
amassing, in my opinion, the largest and most vocal lingerie lift in 
four years. Although the booty was nothing compared to the raid of 
two years ago when stereos, televisions and even a mink collar were 
somehow mistaken for articles of ladies' underclothing, it was 
reasonably good for the season opener. 
Several rookies were outstanding in their first intercollegiate action, drawing praise from all corners, even the seasoned veterans. However, the raid was not without mishap, as one strong freshman prospect was "pushed down" and had to be place on the disabled list. The push (of strength comparable to a fall from the second floor fire escape at Holy Cross) was enough to exclude the newcomer from any further participation this year. 
The year's new opponents <Badin and Walsh) were little more than pushovers for the raiders. Strengthened by the ease of entry into these halls they carried their momentum to a new and different front, Morrissey Hall. Apparrently mistaking this residence for Lewis, which they left untouched, the throng began a series of their now famous "underpants chants". 
Three year veteran panty thief, T. Vestite, described the action; 
"We were all excited and confused and didn't realize our mistake until somebody tossed down a pair of 38 Fruit of the Looms. I ain't got no 
4.0," he explained, "but I know underwear when I see it." 
From Morrissey, the crowd, constantly expanding, bypassed Lyons and began making its way to the vast horizons of undergarments across the road. Literally possed by visions of everything from anklets to curlen, the now enlarged crowd of anxious, sweaty bodies entered Holy Cross with reckless abandon. Amid shouts of glee from the residents, the raiders stormed up and down the corridors leaving nothing in its wake but a tornand battered carpet. The raid came to a climax when Saint Mary's Security, ever protective of its own, ordered the raiders to leave by means of the fire escape. 
Withdrawal was orderly and without incident, thus permitting those fortunate enough to obtain booty, the opportunity to display it with pride for the not-so-lucky. 
It would seem from the general tone of the raid that the response of the new Notre Dame women was less than adequate. Perhaps the future will bring about the needed adaptation. 
A veteran of many such a raid at St. Mary's, who wished to remain anonymous, volunteered some useful advice to the inexperienced Notre Dame co~s. She suggests you remain as calm as possible while acting very frightened and shocked. If time permits, setting the hair will give all appearances of being totally unprepared. "Offer resistance," she explained, "but not too much or they're liable to pass over your underwear .Imagine the embarassment of being the only girl on the floor who didn't get something ripped-off." 
Although it is early in the season, the next raid could give strong indications of what is to come. With the proper amount of cooperation from the ladies, I am {ully confident that our boys will do a fine job. The art of the panty raid is dying fast on college campuses across the nation and if it is not revived here this year, it is in danger of being totally encompassed in the future by such pastimes as co~ housing and adulthood.. 
Nite Editor: Marlene Zloza (with a lot of help from friends) Asst. Nite Editor:: Chris Sullivan Layout: Joe Abell, AI Rutherford, Kathy Kelly Day Editor: Tom Bornboldt Nite Controller: Dave Rust 
Happy Birthday ed 

--------~ 
-----~-~--------­
Monday, September 25, 1972 the observer 
5 



carl and the passions; a pop perspective 
For the past ten years, the Beach Boys have been the stalwarts of American music. They began to release records before the advent of the Beatles, endured through the English group wave, made the transition from the beach to the drag strips to more serious music, escaped into the un­derground, and with the release of "Surf's Up" proved that they remain very much on top of today's music scene. However, with the release of "Carl and the Passions-so Tough," serious questions can be raised about how much longer they can survive. It is evident that the Beach Boys will go as far as their leader-Brian Wilson-will take them. The amount of work he put into "Pet Sounds" contrasts greatly to the amount of work he put into "So Tough" and is graphically pointed out by comparing these two albums in this newly released two record set. 
Chronologically speaking, "Pet Sounds" was released about seven years ago and itS subsequent re-release is due to Warner­Reprise, who is repackaging most of the Beach Boys old albums. This album was supposed to be the anti-climactic step to the Beach Boys' greatness-the preview of the much raved about but never released "Smile" album. Instead, an aborted ver­sion of "Smile" entitled "Smiley Smile" was released and was a major disap­pointment to many. It was not until the release of "Surf's Up" that the Beach Boys started tc.. ascend in popularity once again. 
However, all of the broken promises exibited on "Smiley Smile" takes nothing away from "Pet Sounds." This album is the ultimate in Beach Boy music as well as being one of the better albums released in the past decade. It is a very quiet, moody 
Little Bir:~ Sc:reen
~ 
~ 
/~~ art ferranti 
This week out somewhat even for the novies on TV, the networks are presenting us three good suspense movies on the one hand and a multi-million dollar flick that flopped and a flop that should have but did not, on the other. 
The last picture I refer to is 1971's box-office smash "Love Story" which ABC reputedly bought for $3 miiiion. This movie is made for those who love sentimental dribble. It lacks a plot, acting, originality. The music was the main effector of emotion from this so-called tearjerker. Ryan O'neal (who has since made a few worthwhile pictures) plods along with the grace of a pregnant penguin, and Ali McGraw does the airs "Cactus Flower'\vith Walter Matthau Goldie Hawn, and Ingrid Berman on Saturday, at 8:00. This comedy concerns itself with Matthau's love affair with Goldie while Bergman as Matthau's wife starts seeing someone else also. In the end Mat­thau and Bergman get back together and Goldie and Ingrid's love geftogether. It is an old theme but the variations on that theme still provide a few laughs and good viewing. 
Skip See No Evil with Mia Farrow tonight unless you happen to be a sadist, in which case the massacre of the Saints by the Chiefs or Vice Versa (I have to cover myself when it comes to sports) on ABC tonight 
same thing she did in 'Goodbye, Columbus" should be more up your line. Both made-for­
and just as poorly. If you read "True Con­fession" type magazines this is the movie for you. ItairsSundayat8:00on28. 
Over Christmas vacation last year, ABC presented a made-for-TV film entitled "The Night Stalker" with Darrin McGavin and Barry Atwater.It was ranked next to the higly rated "Brian's Song" (which in­cidentally, will be reshown sometime this se'lson) and concerned itself with vampires. This Tuesdav at 7:30 on 28. ABC will try again with "Moon of the Wolf" with David Janssen (who can act despite his O'Hara, US Treasury last season) and Bradford Dillman. This is about werewolves and other creatures that go bump in the night. 
Back to a loser again. McKenna's Gold is 
long on obvious special effects (earthquakes 
and rock slides) and short on acting, despite 
a cast consisting of Gregory Peck, Omar 
Sharif, and Keenan Wynn. Action is its forte 
and if you like a movie as I have just 
described, its on 22 at 8:00 Thursday. 
CBS scores on Friday with 
" ..tick...tick ... tick"at 8:00 in which Jim 
Brown as a new town sheriff has to contend 
with a racial situation stemming from his 
arrests of a black man accused of rape and a 
white boy accused of manslaughter. NBC TV flicks "Deadly Harvest"(Tuesday on 22) and Say Goodbye, Maggie Cole (Wednesday on 28) do not look promising. 
Predictions Going by the time schedules 
and what little I have actually seen, here are 
my predictions of shows that will be can­
celed this year. Cancelled Saturady; 
Emergency!, The Sixth Sense, Kung Fu. 
CBS's comedy hits will be strong and still 
give a good audience to Mission: Impossible. 
Alias Smith and Jones and The Streets of 
San Francisco will be shaky until the reruns 
start. Sundays; MASH, ..Sandy Duncan, 
Dick Van Dyke, and Night Gallery will go. 
Shaky, Mannix. 
Mondays; The Rookies and Laugh-in will 
leave the TV screen. Tuesday's Tem­
peratures Rising, Maude, Bonanza (It will 
not be able to carry on without Dan Blocker 
and with a new time), and NBC Reports. ' 
Wednesdays; Paul Lynde Show, Wed­
nesday Movie of the Week, and Adam 12. 
Shaky, Medical Center, Cannon, Search. 
Thursdays; Mod Squad, The Waltons, 
Ironside or The Men, andnDean Martin. 
Fridays; The Bfady Bunch, The Partridge 
Family, Little People, Ghost Story, and 
Love, American Style. 
111111111 IIII111111 IIIllIIIllIIIllII 111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
So Tough-Pet Sounds 
The Beach Boys 
Reprise 2ms 2083 
$5.98 List 

i11111111 II IlliII IIIIII II II II 111111111 II 111111111111111111111111111111 IIIIII 
album and it serves as a showcase for Brian Wilson's ability as a composer, writer, and arranger. 
"God Only Knows" begins with a majestic I<'rench horm introduction and is followed up by tight organ, strings, and solid percussion. Carl Wison's lead vocal is excellent and the harmony at the end is perfectly interwoven around his voice. Carl also shines on the somber, reflective love song, "Caroline Know." 
The two instrumentals on the album, "Let's Go Away For Awhile" and the title cut, "Pet Sounds," emphasize Brian's flair for instrumentation and orchestration. "Let's Go Away for Awhile" is a meditative piece featuring strings, saxes, a French horn and vibes as well as. the traditional rhythmn section. "Pet Sounds" is a guitar solo (using a coke bottle for a steel guitar effect) by Carl which is backed by a strong horm section and a jungle-flavored per­cussion, if you will. ' 
The album also contains the classic "Wouldn't It Be Nice," featuring a strong vocal by Brian Wilson, and the ever-popular "Sloop John B" which typifies the great Beach Boy harmony. 
The rest of the album contains songs that reflect the over-all mood of the album. Tony Asher collaborates on most of the material with Brian and proves himself a fine lyricist. Brian does most of the singing, something he unfortunately refrains form today, along with Mike Love and Carl. This is the album where Carl gets his real start in singing, something that he never relinguished as he is the lead singer today. 
This whole album is a tribute to Brian Wilson's musical genius. His guidance and influence are in every part of the record. Although Mike Love, AI Jardine, and Carl and Dennis Wilson prove themselves quite competent by their singing, excellent harmony, and instrumentation, they were 
patrick small 

THE BEACH BOYS PET SOUNDS 

1 
J 
musicianship that typifies the Beach Boys. 
The other cut was written by Rickie Fataar 
and Blondie Chaplin, the new South Mrican 
additions to the group. It's called "Here 
She Comes" and although it is definitely not 1 
typical Beach Boy material it contains good 
piano, an alternating change in rhythmn 
similar to Neil Young's "Southern Man", 
I 
and a competent vocal by Fataar. It's just a good, danceable, listenable song. 
The rest of the album runs from fair to pathetic. De:Qnis Wilson, who hasn't played drums in two years, shows he had a long way to go as a singer and composer on "Make it Good" and "Cuddle Up." Fataar and Chaplin bomb with "Hold on Dear Brother" and Carl is horrid on "All This is That." The remaining two songs are sort of an attempt at soul and gospel which comes off like a poor initation of the Rascals at best. 
Aside from most of the material on "So Tough" being just plain garbage, there are other fairly evident reasons for the downfall of this album. 
First of all, it was a general group break­down. All of the excellent work on "Surf's Up," especially by Carl, Mike, and AI, seems to have gone to their heads because the music on "So Tough" is definitely second rate. The Beach Boys must realize that even their die-hard fans, like myself, will not purchase or listen to something that doesn't even approach their former stan­dards. 
Secondly, the Beach Boys must be The Beach Boys. They are not a soul group, or a gospel group, or a hard rock group--they are the Beach Boys! The harmonies, melodies, material, and musicianship which made them famous are sorely missed on "So 
-

more or less molded by Brian to fit into the , Tough." album. This is definitely a Brian Wilson Finally, Brian Wilson must re-emerge as album all the way. the chief composer and arranger and should 
"So Tough" by Carl and the Passions is sing much more often than he has been quite a different scene. On this album, . lately. This last album proves that he must Brian let Carl and the group handle most of consider himself a member of the group the arranging, writing, and all of the . rather than its Godfather. If he lets his singing, and it shows! Although "Surf's ·"sidemen" take over he may suffer the Up" was handled commendably by Carl same fate of Roger McGuinn of the Byrds-­and the rest of the group, they really fell on look at the last two Byrds albums and their faces in this effort. shudder! Brian is the only hope for the 
There are approximately two worthwhile group and their next album should prove cuts on this album. One is "Marcella" that one way or another.. which was written by Brian and roadie Jack In the meantime, all one can do is enjoy Rieley and is a solid Beach Boy single "Pet Sounds" and the rest of their treasure.• containing the familiar harmony and and hope for better things to come. 
COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL, April 12 to 15, 1973 is recruiting staff for CJF Chairpersons needed: Business Manager Advertising 
Publicity Production UNDERCLASSMEN WELCOME! Hard work, good pay (I?), lots of fun and jazz. 



Call Bob Syburg 233 4300 for further information. 
the observer Monday, September 25, 1972
6 
Food committee tastes problems 
Jim Clarke organized the Com­Joe Cari, dining hall worker; and which student input could be student input to hammer out a newby David Rust mittee, and dietician Phyllis Roose Mike Lilienthal, who complained transmitted to the food service workable replacement. 
At its first meeting last Thur­is chairman. to SBP's President King Kersten offices-notably those of Food "Naturally other problems are sday, the Student Government Other members are: Steve about the food and wound up with Director Edmund Price and the going to come up in the course of I<'ood Committee taste-tested new . Jesselnik, HPC member; Judy Committee membership . dining hall managers. the year," says Committee foods prepared by one of Notre Offerle, SMC transfer student The origin of the Committee is "Mr. Price and his food services member Burgardt, and he hopes Dame's principal distributors. living in Walsh Hall; Kathy Kelly, last term's year-end student people have expressed willingness the Committee, meeting bi­
Student Government a transfer student from Villanova; survey, which indicated a desire in the past to have some contact weekly, will be able to receive 
and Development Commissioner Tom Burgardt, Grace Hall senior; for some kind of channel through with the students concerning the reports on the difficulties and food," explains Commissioner discuss them with the food services Clarke, "but there never was an people. outlet before." Clarke's committee looks for­
What kind of problems are going ward to being able to help plan to have to be met? Some are small menus sometime in the future.


Bike registration today 
but significant irritants: lack of Clarke emphasizes that both courtesy behind the lines, seeming Price and the Committee are very foot---dragging in refilling meat willing to hear suggestion and trays in line, salad serving bowls comment from student diners.
by .Joseph Abell computer card and sending it to and condiments containers in the "I'm optimistic about_ the Com­
L Managing Editor the central office. A sticker is dining hall proper remaining mittee personnel and their en­
I Campus wide bicycle issued to the owner for placement empty too long after the first thusiasm," says Clarke, "but it's
l registration will begin today on the on the bike, Singleton said, and the emptying of their contents. bital that we hear from theI first floor of LaFortune, an-bike is officially registered for five Many of the complaints about students regularly.''
I nounced Chris Singleton, Honorary years. The fee is $1.75. 
the food services arise from the The best way for students to be
I Chairman of the Farley Cyclers, The service is open to both Notre long lines--bad balance, waits, heard is to call the StudentI the group sponsoring the project. Dame and St. Mary's students. 
the whole concept of lines itself. Government offices at 7668, or to
I Between the hours of 3:30 and "I think it's important to get as Price has hinted at having a plan to drop comments into one of the
I 7:00 Monday through Friday this many bikes as possible registered eliminate the cafeteria line system suggestion boxes located inside the I week, members of the Farley at least with the local as it is presently run, but wants dining halls.
I Cyclers will offer two forms of bike registration," Singleton said. He registration, a campus added that the Cyclers are registration and a national cooperating with the St. Joseph's 
Nixon headquarters
registration. County Police, stating that this
! Singleton: 
"Important to get as
The campus registration, was significatn because "90 per 
many bikes as possible
sponsored jointly by the Cyclers cent of the bikes stolen from Notre 

to open in St. ]oe County
registered."

and the security department, will Dame are found in South Bend." consist of serial number Singleton also mentioned that if project will begin later in the The grand opening of President South Bend mayor and chairman registration. The bike owner anyone wanted to register a bike, semester. Nixon's re-electign headquarters of the St. Joseph County for the Re­receives a football-shaped decal to but could not do so during the hours "The Farley Cyclers were asked in St. Joseph County will be held election of the President. Also place on the bike indicating that set up in LaFortune, they could to take over the project from Monday, September 25 at 7:00pm. speaking will be Andy Nickle, a tht· bike is registered. Registration register at 319 Farley Hall at any Security because it's a new club, The Nixon Headquarters, which Notre Dame law student, and a and decal fee is $.75. time. oriented toward bikes, that wants will also house campaign activities former member of President 
The national registration, a "This program has nothing to do to help out the students," Singleton of gubernatorial candidate Dr. Otis Nixon's White House staff, who is more comprehensive program, with hall projects of using electro commented. "We intend to go Bowen and congressional can­currently directing local young sponsored by Computer Card, a pencils to mark possessions," he further for cyclists by sponsoring didate Don Newman, is located in voters for President activities, and nationwide company, is recom-said. That program, operated on a safety seminars and tips on how to the Wyman's buildingon Michigan Don Newman, the Republican mPnded by security head ".rthur hall-wide basis rather than a protect your bike from the South Street. congressional candidate for In­
Pears due to a "growing campus-wide one, entails the use of Bend police later on." The Grand opening will include diana's third district. concern about bike rings hitting an electro pencil to stamp the The Farley Cyclers is an remarks by Lloyd Allen, former The ceremonies, which are openthis area" and taking the bikes out owner's name or social security organization for bicyclists from South Bend mayor and chairman to all Nixon, Bowen and Newman of the area. The national number on any possessions, not both campuses who are inoerested of the St. Joseph County Com­supporters, will be commenced by registration consists of entering just bicycles. in meeting other cyclists and mittee for the Re-election of the an official ribbon cutting. anumber of details, such as the "Security is loaning pencils to participating in cycling events. It President Current plans call for the bike's serial number, brand name the individual halls for that pur­is an outgrowth of the Farley The grand opening will include headquarters to be open from and model, year and color, on a pose, he said, adding that that Striders club begun two years ago. remarks by Lloyd Allen, former 9:00am to 9:00pm six days a week. 
,------~~~------~----~~ 
-




HI Fl SHOW 
Monday, September 25th 10om to 10pm Tuesday, September 26th lOam to 6pm At the Rathskellar In the Student Center 
See the newest in four channel equipment 
Bring your own records and tapes 
FREE TO ND/SMC STUDENTS 
I . 


• 
7

Monday, September 25, 1972 the observer 
Brademas suggests appointee 
centrate on other states such as cum laude '48), and the Fletcher Presently he is director of the ·of educatin and urban politics at (continued from page I) New York, california, or Michigan. School of Law a and Joint Center for Urban Studies the John F. Kennedy School of 
and library books on loan from "In Indiana, there aren't too many Diplomacy<M.A.'49, Ph.d., '61). sponsored by Harvard University Government, Harvard University, public libraries. So far, Brademas hopeful pickings for him" He served as a secretary to the and the Massachusetts Institute of and an assistant for urban affairs reports, this exchange hasn't been Brademas adde<i. Governor of New York State Technology. He is also a professor to President Nixon. challenged. D. Patrick Moynihan, whom during the 1950's before accepting 
Brademas anticipates will receive an appointment in the Kennedy Indiana -Not Many Pickings the NIE directorship, received an Administration as a labor 

ND graduate fasts 
honorary doctorate from the specialist. In thz Labor Depart­University of Notre Dame in 1968. ment, he acted as a special
When asked whether SEn. 
George McGovern, Democratic , Born in Tulsa, Okla., Mounihan assistant, executive assistant and 

to protest bombing
presidential nominee, would ac­studied at Tufts University<B.A. assistant secretary of Labor. company him on any visits to the by J. Peter Berry , North Vietnam's coast as a Indian a third Congressional Mike McKale, a 1972 ND grad, is deliberate attempt to cut off the 
District this fall, Brademas replied participating along with six other. nation's food supply. In additon that the senator should con-anti-war protestors in a "fast for they condemn the massive
Shriver slashes VP 
life" outside the committee to -re-destruction that has turned the in the American System." 
elect the President in Washington Mekong Delta of South Vietnam
Union considers (continued from page 3) Then, overriding hoots of delight D.C. one of the "rice bowl of Asia" into from the partisan crowd, he The fast began on August 6, the an area forced to import Rice from 
Ticketron outlet human being," Shriver said. "I launched his attack: "Who doesn't 27th annivessary of the atomic abroad. The group strongly op­don't believe that's right. I believe _ believe in the American System? 
bombing of Hiroshima. The seven poses the re-election of Presidentby Greg Aiello you ought to vote for a man who 
has one image--an honest image--But what system is he talking people, aged 21 to 41, have been Nixon, "as a symbol of death andTickets to a wide range of cultural about--a system that lets the subsisting on water for more than famine to the children of Southeastactivities in Chicago could become their own image--not one from wealthy avoid their fair share of 
a month and a half. Asia." • 
available to Notre Dame students Madison Avenue. Agnew's image taxes? That lets the Governor of McKale JOins a band of The seven have instigated fivewhen he was unleashed was just asif Student Union is successful in phony as his image now that he is Ca1ifornia get away with paying no prominent activists including Ted similar facts across the natign. Onacquiring a Ticketron outlet this leashed. What he says now taxes--no state taxes? A system Glick, one of the Harrisburg Eight. the subject of whether the groupyear. 
deserves no more credence than it that says all right to 5I/z per cent The group is protesting the famine encourages fasting, Paul Myer,41, Past efforts to secure this ser­did then." unemployment? That's the and havoc "the heaviest bombing said "if people just fast to fast, Ivice have proved fruitless because Warming to the enthusiasm of American System they are for and campaign in human history" has would say no, we're not en­the Ticketron Company believes his audience, Shriver then added I say if that is the American ' wrought in North Vietnam. couraging. If the fast leads them to that the Notre Dame-South Bend an element of unsuspected System, let them be among the They cite the US blockade of further action , I would say yes."
area does not offer a sufficient 
& Sat. night. Call 8279.

relatives on Oct. 14. Will gladly 
One dollar 
3: 
t.he Chicago ar~e~a~.______-=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::======================:!.. 
r 
pay the price, John 8810. 
Ct LA SLIDE SHOW featuring last 
summer's proiects. Monday,Desperately need 2-4 general September 25, 7:30 pm libraryadmission tickets to Pittsburgh, Auditorium. All are welcome.



enjoy the 
Missouri, or Texas Christian. Call 
Mel, 4794. 

Need 4 gnneral admission tickets Badly need 4 Missouri tickets. for Missouri game. Name the Bill 233-9032 price! Chris: 1002. 
Roommate needed-own bedroom· Need 3 TCU tix, call Rich 1314. $45 per month 234-3592 evenings close to campus 
Need any number Purdue tickets, Call Jim 287-0900. Leave Bored over Christmas? Try message. Europe An unbeleivable $190 
round trip Call Clark 283-8810 for Need Purdue tix. Will pay your details price. Call 7819, 7812, or 7471. 
Need 2 general admission tix to FOR SALE 
Pittsburgh. Must be together, call

(it's the new look) 
John 7845 Typing: essay .term paper ·thesis 
desertation .technical or research Need Purdue tickets, general report we do them professionally, admission or student. Call Frank effieiently, and reasonable. 8825 or Ed 8463. Expert Secretarial Service. 233· 
9466 or 233-3257. 

Wanted: part-time legal secretaries to assist small law Need some beer signs. poststers. firm. General practice. Inquire: to finish off those rooms?See Zen 
HAGGAR FLARES 
Tailored in a miraculous Fortrel polyester for complete 
920 South Bend Avenue; 234-3216. in 405 Flanner. comfort and easy care. The smart diagonal weave goes for casual or dress, has a gentleman's flare. Choose from 
Desperately need three 1972 Honda c B 100 $350 or best 
(together) general admission offer, 259.9517 after 6.
several solid shades. 
Missouri tickets. Will meet any
$14 
r~sonable price, call 8446. 1965 Impala excellent condition. new tires, battery call Ray 233 LOST 6280. 
STOP IN ••• SEE THE TOTAL LOOK 
Lost: Gold Wittnauer watch For Sale: 1967 Pontiac tempe·;t 4 Thursday or Friday Sept. 15. door, hardtop v 8, power steerinC!, We're ready to show you everything you'll need in clothing 
south quad. John 1960. Reward. power brakes. Good condition and accessories ... suits, sportcoats, jeans, shoes, belts, shirts 
$900. Call Steve Rathka at 759 jackets, all-weather coats and much, much more. All 
H.S. Class Ring lost Sept. 16, 1941. Steve 1362, Reward
university styled. 
1969 blue Shelby GT 350, 33,QQ,1 Lost: Antique Gold line Bracelet­miles. perfect condition, I•'"' Lost Wednesday Evening on work needed, call Ed· 287 366b. South Quad. Valuable Call Debi $950. 
8067 Reward


PAY NEXT YEAR •••NO SERVICE 
• 

For Sale: Couches $10-30, (hilir. Lost: Architecture History $3.?.50. Call Mrs. Cooper 272 300: 
Notebook in South Dining Hall. Free delivery tto campus. Op<'• 
Very Important Call Fritz.15.ltl Sunday. 

CHARGE 
Porsche 66.912 5-speed, excell<'nt This is the exclusive Campus 
Words 1da 2da 3da 4da Sda abarth, cibie, pireltis, r<'built Shop Way to buy ... choose your 
1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 engine $2850 or best offer. 233 
11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 1039 or 234 1563.
apparel now, pay one-third 
16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 
next January, one-third in 
21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 For Sale: one Senior footbal' February and one-third in 
26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 ticket. Call 232-0151 after 9 p.n· March. You pay no service or 
31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 Reasonable price! 
I 

carrying charge of any kind. 
41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20
----36--4-0_2_._80--4._20__5_.2_5_6_.7_5_7_.7_5_________________________________
j

46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 
'­
, unemployed." 

showmanship. Denouncing Nixon,. market. Concert' Co-Ordinator he straightened himself before theRich Donovan explained that the podium with exaggerated dignityidea was looked into two years ago and performed a readily iden­and rejected by Ticketron. They tifiable impersonation of thesaid that they had tried it in the President. Quoting Nixon's words, South Bend area and it had not Shriver read: "It has becomeworked. 
fashionable to point up what isDue to these rejections nothing wrong with what is called thehas been done about it this year. 
American System. The criticsWith newly revived interest, contend that we should tear ithowever Student Union is planning down. I totally disagree. I believe
to contact Ticketron again. "Its not Student Union's fault," said Downtown's Newest 
Donovan. "We would be glad to 
run it. It's just that if they don't see any money in it, it's not worth 
THE RED DOOR CLUB 
it to them." The service would cost ap­
BEER * WINE * LIQUOR 
proximately $1,000 initial fee with each ticket carrying a $.25 service 
NO Night every Tuesday charge that is then divided bet­ween Ticketron and Student 
z

Membership
Union. Tickets would be available to such events as concerts, plays, 
Ill

and professional baseball, 
ANB :;·

basketball, and hockey gaines in 
First Drink FREE 
~BOAC 
Bored over Christmas? Get a friend and come to Europe. Only 190 dollars Round trip. 
Call Clark for details­283-8810 
1101/z N. Main 



CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Wonted: secretary, must type and take shorthand. 6-12 hours per week. Apply OBSERVER, salery negoitable. 
Need two Missouri tickets. Call John 1598 
Need 1-4 Purdue tickets. Call Dick 234 4259 
Need 2 Michigan tix. Will pay higher prices, Call 6768. 
Wanted: 4 general admission tix for Pitt. Call John 8810. 
Wanted: motel rooms for Oct.14, If you h.ave reservations in a nearby motel for both nights of tthe Pitt, weekend, and you only want to use Friday's, call me! 1 need two double rooms for 
NOTICES 
Please! Anyone who mistakenly took our winter clothes from the fieldhouse storage please be honest enough to return it. Call Ken or Lucy Foley at 289-2389. 
Morrissey Loan Fund Ope. Borrow up to 4T.50 11:15-12:15 Monday thru Friday. LaFortune Basement. 
Sister Marita needs volunteers for her school. Meeting: Monday, Sept. 25 8pm In LaFortune's lobby. 
Dependable mother of two will babysit in home. FRiverside Manor. north of town. 212-1780 
One room at Ramada Inn available Purdue weekend for Fri 

• 
the observer Monday, September 25, 1972
8 
Powerful Irish crush 'Cats 37 -0 
Dewan surpasses 100 -yard mark; Thomas ties field goal record 
by Vic Dorr 
Ara Parseghian began his ninth year at Notre Dame Saturday, and the Irish head coach went into the season opener against Nor­thwestern seeking answers to a number of offensive and defensive questions. 
And Notre Dame playing before a Dyche Stadium crowd of 55,155, answered most of Parseghian's questions both quickly and effectively. 
The Irish offense, led by sophomore quarterback Tom Clements and an overpowering running attack, proved itself by scoring 30 first-half points and eventually finishing with 37. And the defense, trying out a host of
• 
untested players, registered a shutout and allowed the Wild­cats but one serious scoring threat. 
"I was pleased," said Par­seghian. ·•with the performances of both the offense and the defense. I was apprehensive about how good or bad we'd be, but we got good field position and were able to score early. 
"As for our success, I think it was a combination of all the fac­tors. We stayed on the ground. We didn't make mistakes." 
Notre Dame's "success" began with the first Irish possession of the afternoon. Keeping to the ground, and alternating running backs Andy Huff, Eric Penick, and Darryll Dewan, Clements led the Irish on a 53-yard scoring drive. Dewan, who gained 105 rushing yards, capped the match by rambling 30 yards for the touch­down at 9:05 of the first period, and Bob Thomas converted to give the Irish a 7-o lead. 
The Wildcats replied by mounting their only real scoring threat. Taking advantage of two big plays-a pair of 20-yard passes from quarterback Mitch Anderson to wide receiver Jim Lash-the 'Cats drove to a first down at the Irish 18. But three running plays gained only five yards, and when junior safety Tim Rudnick blocked Dave Skarin's 30-yard field goal try, the Northwestern attack was finished. 
"The greenness went right out of us today," said defensive captain Greg Marx. "Everyone said how green we were and how we were going to get killed. But the coaches worked hard to instill confidence in the younger guys-(Steve) Niehaus, (Mike) Fanning and the rest. 
"So what happens? They went out there and they were cooler than I was." 
And Notre Dame's attackers did quite a bit to keep thing "cool" for their defensive mates. Following the blocked field goal, Clements led the ND offense to its second touchdown--this one following an 80-yard march. 
Once again relying on the run­ning game--and on the offensive line--the Irish tallied in 11 plays. 
• 
... 


.....,_ ' 
Bob Thomas kicked three field goals, tying an ND record. 
Fullback John Cieszkowski's two­yard plunge ended the drive and boosted ND into a 14-o lead with time still left in the first period. 
A short kick by Northwestern punter Marty McGann and an interference penalty on the same play gave the Irish good field position on their next possession. Clements, starting from the Wildcat 23, passed to Andy Huff for 16 yards at the seven,• but the 'Cat defense stiffened and junior Bob Thomas came on to kick a 23-yard goal-his first of three. 
Thomas added his second three­pointer just three minutes later, following deep back Reggie Barnett's interception of a Mitch Anderson pass. The kick was from 26 yards, and it gave ND a 20-o lead with less than five minutes gone in the second period. 
A second interception set up Notre Dame's third touchdown of the day. Linebacker JimO'Malley stole an Anderson aerial and returned it 12 yards to the Nor­thwestern 37. Split end Willie Townsend broke away for 31 yards on an end-around play-to the one­and Huff scored on the next play. 
Bobby Thomas wrapped up ND's first-half scoring when he boomed a 47-yard field goal with 0:03 left before intermission. 
Parseghian left his number-one offense in for the first drive of the second half, and the Irish regulars responded with an 82-yard TD march--their longest of the game. 
Dewan began the drive by bolting 29 yards to his own 48, and the Irish ground it in with mainly short-yardage plays The touchdown came on a counter-play from the Northwestern nine, and Penick scored untouched. The rest of the game belonged to both teams' backup units. 
"At first," said Dewan, v.; ) led a rushing game that f! ·.ned 386 yards, "I thought it might be a long, hard day. We were an unknown q.__antity entering the game, and I'd still say that was. partially true. 
"Northwestern may have just played the wrong defense for us. But we'll certainly find out next week against Purdue." 
"We were well coached," commented fullback John Cieszkowski. "If we execute the way we're supposed to, not many teams are going to be able to outplay us--even if they are more talented." 
N.D. Game Statistics. 
N.D NW FIRST DOW:'IIS 24 II Rushing 21 6 Passing 2 4 Pt•nalti!'S I I Y.\RDS RUSIII!IIG 423 12i Lost Rush1 ng . 37 3H 'let Rushing 3Hii H9 TI~I.ES CARRIED T.! :Ill P..\SS(,;S ....... . 14 17 t'ompl.l'ted .. :· 4 7 .llad lntrrcrpted . 2 3 YARDS PASSI:'IJG 42 95 TOTAL PLAYS .. H1 6i Interceptions .. 3 2 
Yards returned. 57 12 PU:>ITS 
3 7 Punting average . . 37 0 37.0 Punts rcturn<>d . . . . ! I Yards rrturned. 36 
H 
K1ckolls returned 
yards . . . . . . . . l·H 5-112 PF.!IIALTIES/Yards i·75 3·35 FUMIILEStLost 1·0 3·3 

:'\oirc Dame. . . 14 16 7 0~11 
:'\orthwestcrn . . . . . 0 0 0 0-0 SD-Dewan 31 run (Thomas klt•k) ND-Cit•szkowskl 2 run (Thomas 
kick) .'W-Thomas 2.1 FG 'ID-Thnmas 26 FG :'\D-lfull I run (Thomas kick). :'\D-Thomas ~·G ~7. :'\0-Pt•nick 9 run (Thomas kirk). 
...itt: 55.15.~. 


Individual Statisti1cs 
NOTRE DAME 
RUSHING: Darrvll Dtwan. 11 lor 105 \·ards: Eric Penick. 15 for 87: Gary biminick. 9 for 32: John C~szkowski, I~ for 5.i: Willie Townsend, I for 31: AI Samuel, 5 lor 23: Andy Huff. 4 for 12: Wavne Bullock. 7 lor 31: Tom Clem· f'nts. 5 lor 4; Bob Washint.'lpn. I lor H: Cliff Brown. 2 for 7: Bill Etter, I fnr minu.~ 9. 
P.\SSISG: Tom, Clf'ments. 4 out of 
11. two inll'rcepted. 42 yards; Cliff 
Brm.m. 0ol ! : Bill Eller 0 of I. RECEIVI!IIG: Willle.Townsend 2 for 
23: Andy 111111. I lor 15; Eric Penick. I lor 4.. PL'STI!IIG: Bnan Doherty. 3 for 37.0 a\·rrage. , 
RETUR!IIS: Punts: Tim Rudnick. 2 lor 36: 20. lntercrpllons: Barrirll, I lor 
II: O"Mallcv. I for 12: Zanot. I for 34. Kickolls-Eric Penick. 1 lor 8. NORTHWESTERN 
RUSHING: Jim Trimble, 16 lor 31: Greg Boykin. 17 for 42: Johnny Cooks. 9 for·32: Stan Key. I lor 8: Mitch Ander· son. 6 lor mlnw; 21: Sten• Harris. I lor minus 3. 
P.\SSI!IIG: Mitch Anderson. 7 oUI of l7 for 95 vards, two intercepted. ' · · RECEiVING: Jim Lash. 3 for &H: Stf\"1.' Craig, 2 for 22: Greg Boykln, 2for 5. 
PUNTING: Marty McGann, 7 lor a7.0 
al"rrage. 
RrT\.IR!IIS: Punts: Greg Swanson. I lor 8: Interceptions-Swanson, 2 lor 12. Kickuffs-.\.J. Owens. 4 lor 12: Charles Hickerson. I lor 10. 


Eric Pt>nick was impressive in his debut, racking up !ll total yards and a 
touchdown. 



The Irish Eye 

=================What an opening! What a show! 
Notre Dame's annual football production opened on the road 
Saturday in Evanston, Dl., and the performance of the Fighting Irish 
brought waves of applause from an appreciative audience and wide 
critical acclaim. 
Produced by Ara Parseghian and directed by Tom Clements, Notre 
Dame's show was most impressive and, after smashing the Wildcats 37­
o, the Irish were the toast of Chicago. 
The script had called for a close contest but Notre Dame's first-year 
players acted like veteran troupers and did some ad-libbing. The result 
was that the Wildcats looked like bit players in summer stock. 
It would be difficult to single out one Notre Dame player as the star of 
the show. The performances of the entire company brought individuals 
into the spotlight during various parts of the game. 
The offensive line of Dave Drew, Frank Pomarico, Gerry DiNardo, 
John Dam peer, Dave Casper and Mike Creaney did its job with Rockette­
like precision and set the scene for the crowd-pleasing antics of Darryl 
Dewan, who ran for 105 yards, Eric Penick, John Cieszkowski and Andy 
Huff. 
Notre Dame's youthful defensive contingent, which Parseghian had felt 
might be adversely affected by stage fright, proved such fears groundless 
with a flawless effort-zero points. 
The Irish offense, which had drawn rave notices while rehearsing for 
the Dyche Stadium openeer, displayed its numerous talents. Combining 
a well-executed array of counters, sweeps, plunges, reverses and an 
occasional passsing play, the Irish danced to scores the first five times 
they appeared on stage. 
Many of the 55,155 people present expected to see a suspenseful drama 
since Northwestern had been only narrowly upstaged by Michigan the 
previous weekend in Ann Arbor and the Irish were relying so heavily on 
youth. Instead, Notre Dame's technically proficient troupe turned the 
event into a well-played comedy, with the largely pro-Irish audience 
smiling frequently as its idols befuddled the Wildcats. 
Notre Dame's headliners racked up 30 first half points and a touchdown 
on their \first possession after intermission before yielding to their un­derstudies.Theirs was a difficult act to follow--touchdown drives of 80 and 82 ym!ds the first unit put together were pure artistry-and the show . dragged somewhat when the reserves did their bit. 
Ara Parseghian, a genius in the field of football productions who is 
beginning his ninth year at Notre Dame, said afterwards, "I was a little 
apprehensive prior to the game, but several key breaks and good field 
position enabled us to jump out front quickly." 
"Tom (Clements) did a nice job of handling the ball club," he con­tinued. "He had one unluckly pass interception and one poor judgement decision trying to throw the ball into a .crowd in the end zone...But otherwise, he had a great game." 
Commenting on his Notre Dame debut, Clements remarked, "I was satisfied for my·first game, but my play wasn't as good as it could have been. But the team played well-the line really did a job blocking and the backs executed." 
Clements, and Notre Dame, did not put on a perfect performance Saturday. But it was a damn good show, one definitely worth seeing next weekend in South Bend. Consider it highly recommended. 








