
i'm dreaming of a white weekend ... 


Friday, January 28, 1972
serving the notre dame -saint marv's community
Vol. VI, no. 66 
SMC presidency: only two interested 
by Ann-Therese Darin in the position. "And follows the growing movement all one, but we were not successful. I am just Director of St. John's University over America for small women's colleges telling this to prove that the search 
When Mother Olivette Whelan, St. Research Center for Urban Affairs and and small liberal arts colleges to train committee was not a bunch of male Mary's Board of Trustee chairman, Public Planning, Dr. Edward Henry, flatly women for openings for them in the job chauvinists." contacts aspirants for the college's denied any interest in becoming an interim market." "In fact," continued the committee presidency, as mandated by the Board at president. Stephen Tonsor, professor of intellectual member, "we were never told 'you'd 
their December 22 meeting, the results "I hope for the sake of both schools that history, University of Michigan, another better look for a sister' despite the fact may prove surprising. negotiations do go through," he com­hopeful, was out of town. that Sr. Alma and Sr. Miriam Patrick were 
Of the four top contenders, weeded out mented, but he balked at the idea of While Mrs. Tonsor reported he had co-chairmen of the committee." by a presidential search committee last becoming vice-president at the university received no communique from the Board, None of the four candidates, as yet, have spring, for the post to be vacated by "doing all of the dirty work while the she did emphasize that "he is quite in­heard anything from Mother Olivette, present acting-president Sr. Alma Peter in president takes all the credit." terested in the character of St. Mary's as a whose directive to find a replacement for August of 1972, only two nominees Tuesday Henry would consider the presidency woman's college." Sr. Alma came over a month ago. Top afternoon acknowledged any interest at all only if St. Mary's remains indlepenclent, She declined to speculate whether he college administrators claim Mother 
would come to campus as an interim Olivette is either on retreat or on the West president if present negotiations for Coast helping with a Holy Cross hospital unification persist. "It depends on the damaged in an earthquake. scope of the job," she reflected. Of the four candidates, Dr. Henry was 
At the Michigan Daily, University of the most articulate in expressing the Michigan student newspaper, an editor dilemma. characterized the presidential aspirant as "Why would anyone want to come in and 
"a rigid conservative, more theoretical, work hard only to find his job go down the and not exactly a student's choice in being drain after six months?" he queried. responsive to student opinion." Envisioning the scope of the presidency 
According to members of last year's at St. Mary's, Henry mused, "I believe in presidential search committee, these two staying close to the students. Every ad­men are the only contenders for the job. ministrator ought to teach at least one 
One of the four original candidates, course to keep close to the student." Lewis Gatto, St. Joseph's College, Ren­He claimed he would opt for the political ssalear, Indiana, recently accepted the science department, since he did graduate presidency of Marion College, In­work in political science at Harvard dianapolis, Indiana. University and University of Chicago 
Another nominee, Dean Palmer of the (MA. MBA. Ph.dl. college of arts and sciences from Union "Colleges today have become service­College, Schenectady, New York, now oriented. We need more 'experiential' heads the Metropolitan State College, education---students have to combine Denver, Colorado . bookwork and practical work." 
"We never had any sister of the Holy He believes St. Mary's to be in an ex­Cross in final contention for the post," ceptional position with its two sister 
Center ready for Mardi Gras weekend. Story, commented one member of the com­schools: Dunbarton College in mittee. "All of them were laymen. We Washington, D.C. and Cardinal Cushing tried to get a woman and we almost had College in Boston. 

more pix on page 3. 
Neuhaus offers reflections on conspiracy 
by Mike Baum the most provacative dreams, of Castigating the present This detachment from the Daniel Berrigan and Rabbi any piece of literature in the division in tf!eology, charac­world, Neuhaus feels, does not Abraham Hesche!. 
The Rev. Richard Neuhaus 
world." and "Christians are terized by such phrases as preclude the Christian's com­In 1968 he met with the Viet­suggested yesterday that there peculiarly vulnerablle, or ought "Church and State", "Real mitment to a political position, namese delegation in Paris and 
was "no definite Christian ethic" 
to be, to the charge of con­History and Salvation History", but rather makes it impossible engaged in a fact-finding tour for a radical or otherwise spiracy." and, in Lutheran theology, "The for the Christian to view my leading to the establishment of political position. The opinion Quoting St. Paul, "What we do, two Kingdoms", Neuhaus refered position as his final goal. U.S. support groups for resisters 
was offered during Mr. 
we do openly.", Neuhaus went on to these as a method to "cover up He himself is the pastor of the in France, Sweden and Canada. 
Neuhaus' lecture "Theological 
to explain, "We are anything but our religion, and to make it seem Lutheran Church of St. John the In a question and answer Reflec lions on Conspiracy", conspirators, as Christians, we "safe" to present society. "Those Evangelist in Brooklyn, on the sesson after the talk, led by
presented as part of the Non­
shout out and exclaim ... the who seek the Kingdom, he feels board of directors of SANE, and Stanley Hauerwas and John Violence Program's Conference nature of the hope within us. Yet "undermine all total claims of an organizer and co-chairman of Howard Yoder of the Theology on Conspiracy and Dissent. we have been, and some are, nations, cultures and sub­Clergy and Laymen Concerned 
Neuhaus criticized, before an more ought to be, as con­cultures." about Vietnam along with Fr. (Continued on page 12) audience of some 150 students spirators."and faculty, the rise of what he He explained that he felt characterized the "Theology of" Christians are "Foreigners" and series <Theology of Ecology, "pilgrims" in the world who Theology of Revolution, etc.), "defy reality in terms of the capitalising on "in" movements coming Kingdom of God." This 
and trying to make religion other-worldliness, a satisfaction "feel" relevant. true Christian a foreigner to all 
"We have to avoid the cum­governments and revolutionarypulsive need to feel relevant with groups alike, according to our respective religions...To be Neuhaus. 
relevant is not the goal of He added, "The Premise of the theology, I would think.", He community we are a part of, the slated. Church, is foreign to every social 
Neuhaus attacked the use of reality short of the Kingdom of theology to provide a "veneer of God." 
religiosity" to prior political He argued that the religion of convictions. "Many of us," he the majority of people had been said, "who talk of politics and toned down to live at ease with 
sociology in terms of our present society, and was indeed a religions have lost credibility." sedative, and "opiate of the Neuhaus said that he felt that pPoplc."
the tendency to use theology to "There is no community for us provide a "clout" for political short of the Kingdom of God," he beliefs had led to "a very said and, quoting again St. Paul, dangerous kind of bifurcation " ' It is a small thing that I be that we have now in the chur­judged by you. ...Let no man ches." judge before the time.' This is the lie went on to say, however, statement of the free man, who 
that "I firmly believe that the must be not only counter to the scriptures remain the most culture, but counter to the radical reality .... giving birth to counter-culture." 
students at session of the Non-Violence Dissent. 

Conference on Conspiracy and 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Friday, January 28, 1972 
'Norld 

briefs 
<Cl 1972 New York Times 
Paris -Replying to the latest eight-point United States Peace Plan, the Vietnamese Communists insisted Thursday at the Paris Peace. Talks that the United States must set a date for total military with­drawal and oust the present Saigon government before there can be a Vietnam Settlement. The reaction fell short of a categorical rejection of the American Plan, which was being formally presented at the talks. 
Tokyo-Japan and the Soviet Union, in a communique issued at the end of a week-long visit to Tlkyo by Andrei Gromyko, the Soviet Foreign Minister, said they would begin negotiations "within this year" toward a peace treaty formally ending the technical state of war between them since World War II. 
Washington-Maurice H. Stans resigned as Secretary of Commerce, and President Nixon nominated Peter G. Peterson, the White House Assistant for International Economic Affairs, as his successor. Stans was expected to move into a top job in Noxon's re-election campaign. 
Zurich -The Federal Bureay of Investigation has been asked by Swiss Law-Enforcement Officials to interview Clifford Irving, the novelist, and his wife in connection with a possible $650,000 fraud, Swiss sources said. The Swiss Police were even said to have provided a list of questions for the Irvings to answer. 
New York-Meeting in executive session, The City Council Com­mittee on General Welfare voted 7 to 5 with one abstention to kill a controversial bill to prohibit discrimination against homosexuals in jobs, housing and public accommodations. 
on campus today 
friday 
10: 15--lecture, arthur waskew, american capitalism and american catholicism: on collision course, cce 
3:30--lecture, alasdair macintyre, political theory as theory and as ideology, auditorium, galvin life science center 
3:30, 7:00, 9: 00--film, Ia guerre est fini, carroll hall 
7: 45--hockey, university of wisconsin vs. notre dame, ace 
saturday 
1: 30--wrestling, john carroll vs. notre 
dame, auxiliary gym, ace 3:40--basketball, ucla vs. notre dame, ace 
7: 45--hockey , university of wisconsin vs. notre dame, ace 
sunday 
8: 00--concert, feldman string quartet, o'laughlin auditorium 


nd-smc 

Thompson: Will speak on the Draft. 

Thompson to speak 
Richard Thompson, assistand dean of the College of Arts and Letters will speak in Farley Chapel Tuesday February 1 at S pm on "The Draft, Lottery and You." 
Dean Thompson is a member of the South Bend Draft Board and will deal with questions related to the new Selective Service Act. His will be of special interest to freshmen who face induction because of the elimination of student deferments and the Lottery for those born in 1953 which will be drawn on February 2. 
This talk is first in the "Pop Farley" series of lectures to be sponsored by the Farley Hall Academic Commission, dealing specifically with the problems of the student and the University. Future talks will include guest speakers Dr. George Williams, Dr. John Haulk, Dr. Edward Goerner, Dr. Willis Nutting, and Dr. William Storey. 


The Observer is published daily during the college semester eci:ept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second dass postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 




Ca~npus Happenings 
string along w/ feldman quartet 
Notre Dame, Ind. -The Feldman String Quartet will be presented in 
concert at 8 p.m. Sunday, January 30, in O'Laughlin Auditorium of 
Saint Mary's College. Co-sponsors of the program are the Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's music departments and the Performing Arts Series. 
Their Saint Mary's concert will include "String Quartet in G Major" 
by Franz Joseph Haydn; "String Quartet No.2 in A Major" by Dimitri 
Shostakovich; and the "Piano Quartet" by Robert Schumann. 
Morebello will perform the Shumann selections, written in 1842. 
spirit's not only in michigan 
Ode Recording Artists, "SPIRIT", will appear in concert Saturday, 
January 29, at 8pm at the Morris Civic Auditorium in South Bend. 
"Spirit", whose latest recording is The Twelve Dreams of Dr. 
Sardonicus, is currently winding up their Midwest tour with their last 
stop in Detroit's Grande Ballroom. 
Appearing on the same bill will be two new groups, "Dragon" from 
Denver and "Hard Luck" out of Chicago. Tickets will be available at 
Pandora's Books, Sky King, and at the door. 
"•••starts with T and that rhymes with•.." 
The Student Center Management will sponsor a pool tournament 
beginning February I and continuing until March 18. Sign-ups should 
be made in the pool room in the basement of La Fortune before the 
start of the tournament. 
No fee for the tournament will be charged, but players will be 
required to pay for their own playing time. A fifty-baHelimination will 
be featured with trophies going to the top three finalists. 
display of activities monday 

Next Monday, January 31, The Notre Dame Student Government .!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!l!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!I!!III!!!!!I!!!!!!!I!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!~~~~I!!!!!!S 


will hold Activities Night, this semester, termed Involvement '72. Its purpose will be to recruit new members for campus activities and to 

·show students from both the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses the activities going on for this semester. Involvement '72 will be held between 7:30 and 8:30on the library concourse. Any groups desiring more information and details concerning display tables for their organization can call 1434. 


JESUS 
is Lord ... And It Makes A Difference... Really There Is A New Life ... So Make A 

Jesus Retreat 
24 Hrs. Sat. Jan. 29 & 30 
For Further Information Call Joel 3840 Days Or 234-3529 Evenings 
Sponsored B-y ... A 

True House 
Loco I Charismatic Christian Community 

BE'l·rER L AT UNION with CONTACT LENSES 
No hassle. Slip into the action with better vision without bother. Contact lenses help you see better, keep you looking great. Feel free to join the action with contact lenses ... You get better looking at Union. 
2201 N. Division, 
Phone 259-1968 

Mishawaka 


7118 OBSERfiER. 


N.Vietnamese eye
National/International News 


8-point peace plan
Friday, January 28, 1972 
Page 3_ 

The Mardi Gras construction crews worked again last night, leading up to the wheeling and dealing of the Notre Dame Mardi Gras carnival. late_ last night, Mardi Gras Chairman Greg Step1c announced the official calender of events for the carnival. 
The carnival opens on Friday, February 4th, with the kick-off party and it reaches its grand finale with a concert on Sunday night February 13th. Featured at thr kick-off party will be the Red Garter band from Chicago. The party, will be held at the South Bend Armory from 8:30 until 1 and the const will be five dollars per couple. 
The carnival itself opens on February 5th at 7pm and the gates will close at tam. During the week Stepan Center will be open for the carnival goers from 7 until 12 on Tuesday and Thursday nights. The carnival re-opened for the weekend from 7 until! on Friday and Saturday nights. The carnival comes to a close on Sunday with an afternoon session from 1 to S. 
Mardi Gras, which is suffering through poor financial times, has found it necessary to charge an admission fee for those who have not sold a book of raffle tickets. The opening night of the Carnival will cost one dollar. 

by Edwin L. Dale Jr. <Cl 1972 New York Times 
Washington, Jan. 27-Price and wage controls will remain indefinitely until "reasonable price stability can be maintained without controls," President Nixon told congress today. 
"How long that will take," the President said, "no one can say." 
The President made his statement in his economic report to congress, which ac­companies the annual report of the council of economic advisers. 
In their reports the president and the council said essentially the same thing in different ways: controls will be main­tained until Americans stop acting, through such things of labor contracts and business pricing policy, as if inflation were going to be permanent. Thus, the test of the end of controls will be the end of what is called "inflationary psychology." 
Nixon in his brief message again em­phasized that "the great problem" of the economy is to reduce unemployment from its current level of 6 per cent of the labor force. He said he was "determined to reduce that number significantly in 1972." 
In its relatively detailed forcast of the economy, the council put the probable growth of the gross national product this year at $98 billion, or 9.4 per cent, with unemployment declining to "the neigh­borhood" of 5 per cent by the end of the year. The gross national product is the dollar value of all goods and services produced in the country in a year. 

The report said that this picture was "not one of takeoff into a cyclical boom." 
Of the expected total growth, the council said that about 6 percentage points would be "real" and about 3-% points would be a resutl of inflation. The inflation rate will decline as the year progresses, the council said. 
For last year, 2.7 points of the growth in the gross product was considered "real" and 4.7 points was attributed to inflation. 
The forecast emphasized a number of "unvertainties," and noted the ad­ministration's "readiness to take ad­ditional steps" if necessary to bring about the projected expansion in output and jobs. However, the report said, "the possibility that, with the policy now in place, the economy will rise even more rapidly than we foresee today is a strong reason for not seeking to stimulate the economy more now.'' 
In two important respects, the forecast was relatively conservative. It projected no reduction in the recent unusually high rate of consumer saving, and thus did not rely upon a booming burst of consumer spending. 


at Paris sessions 
by Bernard Gwertzman <Cl 1!172 New York Times 
Washington, Jan. 27--Secretary of State William P. Rogers said today that despite Hanoi's public denunciations, he was "somewhat encouraged" by the absence of a North Vietnamese rejection of the Paris talks. 
Offering an optimistic assessment of the gi~e and take at the Paris session, Rogers said that not only had the enemy not rejected the eight-point plan, made public by Nixon on Tuesday night, but "they have been asking a few questions about what we mean." 
Rogers said that he had just spoken by phone with ambassador William Porter, the head of the American delegation to the Paris talks, who gave him a briefing on today's session at which he outlined Nixon's peace plan. The plan had first been offered privately to the North Viet­namese by Henry A. Kissinger, the President's National Security Affairs adviser, in October. 
The Secretary spoke to a national foreign policy conference for editors and broadcasters organized by the State department. Newsmen and news executives from 40 states were at the department for the start of the two-day session. 
In answer to a question, Rogers said it was natural to inquire if the ad­ministration's disclosure of the secret eight-point plan would "speed up or delay the possibilities of a negotiated set­tlement." 
"My own view is that if there is any inclination at all on the part of the other side to negotiate a settlement--and I think that is in doubt--then the statement by the President of the other night, which was so effective, and I think will have the effect of unifying the American people. And if they are convinced of that, I think they will be more inclined to work out a negotiated settlement," he said. 
Reporting on today's Paris session, he said: 
"I am somewhat encouraged by the fact that they have not rejected our proposal in Paris this morning. There has been a good deal of invective about it, but it hasn't been rejected" 
"And secondly, they have been asking a few questions about what we mean, and how could they be sure that the electoral process would be fair." 
"Now , that is a good sign," he said. 
"That is exactly what negotiations are supposed to do, supposed to provide an opportunity for each side to ask the other, 'What do you mean?' "he added. 
Continuing to enlarge on this theme, Rogers said: "Now, if they should get that frame of mind, so that they want to ac­tually negotiate, that would be fine. It is possible that we could work out a set­tlement. It is a perfectly natural question for them to say 'well, how can we be sure that the election will be fair?' Now, it seems to me we have to say, 'well, what do you want to do to provide fairness?' " he said. 
Asked to provide more detail on Rogers' reference to North Vietnamese "questions," a state department official later said that at the Paris talks, the communist side "asked directly or rhetorically, some interesting questions." 
"The questions were couched in criticism, or hostile language," he said. "They seemed to focus on two subjects: do we contemplate a total withdrawal, and how do we define a total withdrawal, and they were poking around the edges of the electoral process: how did we define it; what did it involve?" 
The officials said that this was "something of a departure from the past," although another informed source said that questions on those subjects have been asked before. 
Rogers's apparent optimism about the Paris talks was in contrast to widespread skepticism in Washington diplomatic circles about the prospects for a 1wgotiated settlement. 



Page 4 THE OBSERVER Friday, January 28, 1972 
Ackerman makes response to SBP letter 
Claiming that the Security and Traffic Advisory Board has been examining security from every viewpoint since it's inception, Chairman Robert Ackerman, assistant Dean of Students, defended the board's record in reply to questions raised by SBP John Barke.tt in a letter dated November 30th. The letter was released this week. 
"I write this letter in the hopes that the Security Advisory Board will stir into action 1Jfter nearly eight montlis have passed since the Board w~ approved by the Officers Council," Barkett wrote. 
" ... to have been in existence for 
Messbarger announces SMC 1noratoriu1n on facuity tenure 
The St. Mary's administration had delayed indefinitely any tenuring of Saint Mary's faculty 
due to the "uncertalntiy of the future" of Saint Mary's College, according to a letter the ad­ministration sent to SMC faculty members. 
Contents of the letter was made public Tuesday by Assistant Professor Paul Messbarger. 
According to Messbarger, SMC called the tenure and promotion "moratorium" because St. Mary's will have few students and consequently fewer faculty members if the merger between them and Notre Dame does not go through. 
Messbarger speculated that if the merger were to come about the Notre Dame administration 
might  not  accept  the  tenure  
status  of  St.  Mary's  faculty  
members.  

In a previous agreement between ND and SMC all tenure earned prior to May, 1971 would have been honored by Notre Dame provided the merger camtt off by September, 1972. However due to the merger's recent 
NWPC meets to discuss role in city elections 
by Susan Prendergast 
The National Women's Political Caucus will hold its first South Bend meeting on Tuesday, February 3, at 7:30p.m. in the Public Library Auditorium. 
According to NWPC worker Iris DiGrazia, the organization's main objectives are to "Help women run for political office" and to "educate women to realize that this field is open to them." 
The NWPC also hopes to "pressure politicians already in office to concentrate on women­orientated areas, such as day care centers, abortion legislation, discrimination in hiring and wages, Ms. DiGrazia asserted. 
Ms. Jane McMichaels, a for­mer WSBT newscaster now working for the national organization in Washington, initiated the local chapter last year. 
Ms. DiGrazia contended that the group's local plans will in­clude placing "more women on Mayor Miller's administration and working on abortion in the state." 

nearly a month now and still show no concrete movement is pitiful," Barkett continued. 
The SBP called for the board to consider -a human relations program for the security office, Red Cross training for all campus security guards, removal of inequities involving traffic fines and a possible lowering of the student parking fees. 
Ackerman said that, delays in appointing members to the board, and the members own petty gripes, such as individual 
parking tickets, hindered its' work. Board members are, he asserted, enthusiastic over their work and have been working 
cancellation and renegotiation, it is uncertain whether Notre Dame would continue to honor this agreement, Messbarger said. 
According to Messbarger if Notre Dame and St. Mary's cannot agree on the merger St. Mary's might award tenure to faculty members after specifing that the contract would be ter­minal. The English Professor did say that members of the St. Mary's faculty would "have a hand" in drawing up any such contract. 
Messbarger asserted that the 
delay in awarding tenure is 
necessary now because the future 
of St. Mary's is "up in the air." 
not promotions. 


Notre Dame Wrestling Notre Dame (7 -1 ) 
vs. 


John Carroll (8 -0) 

Sat. Jan. 29 1:30 A.C.C. Free 
S.M.C. Last Grasp Films 

''La Guerre Est Finie'' Friday, Jan. 27 only 3:30; 7 :00; 9:00 Carroll Hall St. Mary's College 
Admission Charge 75c 
SKI PKG. 
• 
Yamaha ISkis • Poles 

• 
Tyrolia 55AOO Bindings 


e Plastic l!uckle Boots $99 
• Installation 
Regulor $172 ......... . 
BADGER SKI PKG. 
• 
Fischer 707 Glass Skis • Poles 

• 
Marker-Eiastomat Binding 

• 
Plastic Buckle Boots 

• 
Installation 


$16 
Regular $252.......... 
HOOSIER SKI PKG. 
• 
Volkl Sapporo Skis 

• 
Look/Nevada Bindings 

• 
Garmon! Comp. Boots 

• 
Poles 

• 
Installation 





$24 9 
Regular SJS3.. ...... 
"World's Largest Selection" 
continuously since the Board's formation. 

Barkett called for "concrete movement" on the part of the STAB but Ackerman noted that what mjght be called "concrete movement" is not within the realm of the STAB. He said that the purpose of the board was only to recommend changes, not to implement policy. A traffic study is being done by one of the Board members and a meeting is scheduled today with Security Director Arthur Pears to discuss 
the  suggestions  outlined  in  
Barkett's letter.  
A  complete  investigation  of  

Security and appropriate 

recommendations was promised 
by Ackerman in time for the J 
publication of next year's student manuaf. 
One of STAB's basic intentions is to change the human relations involved in security according to Ackerman. A primary objective is to develop a healthy attitude betwee~ students and security, the assistant Dean of Students said. 
Security is a service to the community, Ackerman com­mented and reactions would greatly improve if that were understood. He asked for any 
'\

suggestions members of the community might have in the areas of traffics and security be submitted to him in writing. 
Ackerman: Board members enthusiastic, but delays have hindered work. 
MAiN CHURCH 

SUNDAY MASSES 
5: 
15 p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 

9:30a.m. Sun.  Fr. Andrew Ciferni, 0. Praem.  
10:45 a.m.  Sun.  Fr. Aidan Kavanagh, O.S.B.  
12:15 p.m. Sun.  Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C.  

Cultural Arts Commission's Performing Arts Series Presents 
Pearl Lang Dance Co. 
Tuesday, Feb. 1 8:30pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 
$1.50 P.A.S. Patrons Free 
Acareer in law ••• 
WithOUt laW SChOOl. 
When you become a Lawyer's Assistant, you'll do work traditionally done by lawyers -work which is challenging, responsible and intellectually stimulating. Lawyer's Assistants are now so critically needed that The Institute for Paralegal Training can offer you a position in the city of your choice -and a higher starting salary than you'd expect as a recent college graduate. Here is a career as a professional with financial rewards that increase with your developing expertise. 
If you are a student of high academic standing and are interested in a legal career, come speak with our representative. 
Contact the Placement Office. A representative of The Institute will visit your campus on: 

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9 
NOTE: If the above date i::. inconvenient for you. please call or write The Institute for information. 
_The Institute for Paralegal Training 

13th floor. 401 Walnut St, Phila., Pa. 19106 (215) WA 5-0905 
Friday, January 28, 1972 
THE· OBSERVER Page 5 

Senators postpone student govt merger 
by Don Hopfer 

The next plan is to run four alternative is to continue the ning separately or in coalitions. of their proposed fee. The main 
A Stay Senators meeting with Student Body President John Barkett last night decided to leave the question of a Notre Dame-Saint Mary's merged SPB election to the Student Govern­ment Election Committee which will meet after next Thursday's Senate meeting. 
The Senators present defined three options for the Student Government merger. The first is that there should be two separate governments having two sets of officers, with a system of coor­dination established between the two. This plan would probably require "coalition" tickets on the SBP ballot. 
candidates formally bound current system, when all can­together on ticket. The final didates have the option of run­

f-Dell~ge7~a~;els~ppe~rance t
f 
t t 
A 
f ' 
• 
t
f 
t 

As Notre Dame's first "Conference on conspirdcy and Dissent" completed its opening session Thursday, two of the featured guests, David Dellinger and Leonard J. Boudin, were forced to cancel. 
Mr. Boudin, legal counsel for the Harrisburg Eight, was called to court con~ern_ing the conspir~cl. trial. ~avid Dellinger's cancellatiOn IS due to appendicitis. A futile at­tempt was made to get Attorney William Kunstler in place of the ailing Dellinger but he had a previously scheduled court appearance, organizers claimed. 
The conference will continue today at the Center for Continuing Education with Arthur I. Waskow, from the Washington bas~d I~stitute for Pol~cy Studies ~~aking on "American Capitalism and American Catholicism: On Collision Course". A replacement is also being sought for 
L 
Dellinger, according to organizers. 
f


f f f
f 
a 
' 
f 
A ' 
a 
J ' 

Nixon gains in Florida race 
by James Reston 

(c) 1!172 New York Times 
Sarasota, Fla.---President Nixon's account of his secret efforts to negotiate a peace in Indochina has clearly helped him in the Florida presidential primary election campaign, and embarassed· the leading Democratic candidates for the presidency. 
His peace terms are extremely complicated, but what stands out in the shorthand of stump campaigning is that he offered to withdraw all his troops if he got all U.S. prisoners of war released---and that this was rejected by Hanoi and the National Liberation Front. 
Accordingly, Muskie, Hum­phrey, McGovern, and Lindsay, when they point to the critical conditions which are basic to the President's peace terms, find themselves caught in a tangle of complex and ambiguous qualifications, and even in danger of seeming to be sym­pathetic to the enemy. 
Ironically, it is not the press here but the families of the American prisoners of war who have cut to the heart of this issue and made clear that Nixon is demanding, not only the release of the P.O.W.'s, but the neutralization of all of Indochina, the end of all infiltration by foreign troops <are the South Vietnamese Communists "foreign" in South Vietnam?), a cease-fire and an election process which is virtually certain to restore the Thieu government to power in Saigon. 
For example, Mrs. Gerald A. Gartley of Dunedin, Fla., whose Navy Lieutenant son, Mark Gartley, was shot down over North Vietnam in August of 1968, observed here that while Nixon was obviously trying to free the P.O.W.'s, the safety of the Thieu government and Nixon's own presidential future were also apparently important con­siderations and may even have "come first." 
This, of course, cannot be anything more than Mrs. Gar­tley's personal speculation (nobody but the president knows which of his conditions come first l. But several things are fairly clear: 
1. 
Both sides in the war have now put forward specific terms of peace unacceptable to the other side. 

2. 
Hanoi and the N.L.F. are asking the President not only to get out of Indochina but to take all his equipment with him, in­cluding the equipment now in the 


hands of the South Vietnamese, and stop future military aid to Saigon. Dr. Kissinger has fairly characterized this as a demand that Washington abandon Saigon and, in effect, overthrow the Thieu government. 
3. At the same time, Nixon is demanding that the enemy give up the positions it has gained by years of fighting in South Viet­nam, Laos, and Cambodia, and accept a cease-fire just at the time when the enemy is mounting an offensive and U.S. ground troops are withdrawing. 
It is clear that Wathington is 
NEWS ANALYSIS 

not going to abandon Saigon under what amounts to a demand for Saigon's surrender, and that Hanoi and the N.L.F. are not going to order a cease-fire and abandon military positions they have won in the last 10 years at the cost of millions of lives. 
So the stalemate continues. Nixon has clearly made con­cessions for peace---which deserve a better hearing than Hanoi and the N.L.F. have given them---and has finally clarified the major political and military issues in dispute, but his publication of these terms, while they relieve him of the charge that he was not even considering a final withdrawal of all U.S. troops, introduce other conditions known to him to be unacceptable to the enemy. 
In fact, by impressing public opinion in this country by his persistent effort to negotiate a 
secret agreement, he has un­
doubtedly gained support for 
stepping up the bombing against 
the enemy's forthcoming 
military offensive. 
Thus the outlook is not for less 
fighting but for a more savage 
battle during the coming dry 
season, and while Nixon has 
undoubtedly gained politically in 
the short run, he has now com­
mitted himself to a course of 
action and a set of unacceptable 
peace terms which have revived 
the Vietnam issue in the 
presidential election campaign, 
which still has over nine months 
to go. 
During the long and sharp debate that lies ahead, the President, if he sticks to his present peace terms and war aims, will be asking the American people to continue fighting, not only for the release of the American prisoners of war­--which nobody opposes--but for the maintenance of his ally in Saigon, for the neutralization of all of Indochina, and for democracy in a country where the word has little meaning. 
Here in Florida, his com­plicated peace terms will be a good political issue at least until the primary voting on March 14, but thereafter, when his military and political terms are finally analyzed and widely understood, they may well be seen not as a means to peace, but as a cause for continuing the war. And by November, that might not be a very popular argument for re­election. 





Haas Haus 
2803 So. Michipn St. ""-29Hili22 
German Food 
Our Specialty 
Created with Old World Atmosphere. Specializing in German and American Foods. 
Open 10:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. Closed Sundays and Holidays South Bends Finest Banquet Rooms The Alpine & Bavarian Rooms 
HOURS, 
MON • TUE$ -TKUft -FRI 9 AM 5:30PM WED -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLETE SPBCTACLE


RoGERS 
SatVICE ALL t'YE ot.'S 
Pllt:SCRIPTION$ HONORE!: 
Cal/


Optical 

289-7809

IOO!R Al'WfLL • OWNER 
Barkett said he favors the first plan. 
The decision is scheduled to be handled at an election committee meeting, probably held next Thursday after the 7pm Senate meeting. This also is tentative. 
Barkett and Stay Senators Jim Clarke, Don Patrick and Bob Sauer also considered two other questions: The InPIRG petition to add an optional fee to the students' University bill for InPIRG operations and the problem of mandatory vs.. op­tional telephone installation. 
lnPIRG plans to circulate a petition in order to gain approval discussion here concerned the percentage of student approval needed. This also was relegated to the Senate for action. 
The crux of the telephone problem is whether or not to make them optional, thus allowing a student who does not use the phone much to escape paying the fee. 
However, this would also in­volve the removal and in­stallation of phones every time the occupant of the room changes residence, and it was unanimously felt that this could be a needless burdern. 

Sports Parachuting -Sky Diving 

Orientation -Film -Lecture Jan 29, 1972 -LaFortune Rm 1 C Session 1 -11 :00 AM Session 2 -3:00 PM 
Sponsored By The ND-SMC Parachute Club, 
U.S. Parachute Association And Marshall Co. Parachute Center. Admission Free -Everyone Welcomed 


SENIOR 
Weekend Sports Specials 
Fri: Canadian Mist Blended Whiskey 25c-shot 7:00-9:00 Bar Open 4:00 till??? Sat : Bar Open 
12:00 (noon) Till Game Time & Immediately After Game 
Schlitz Malt On Tap 10 c -glass 6:00-8:00 
(One FREE Drink With Each Hockey Ticket Stub) 
BAR 


Friday, January 28, 1972

Page 6 THE OBSERVER 
••• .... -~~·.· ..... . . • •'f• 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-Chief. Glen S. Corso Assistant Editor 
.\ssislanl Editor All successful newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
ceaselessly querulous and 
bellicose. They never defend Business Manager anyone or anything if they can help .\dve1·tising M~1nager Jim Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle 
they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

B us in e s s : 2 8 3 -7 4 7 1 News: 283-1715 
The Best Man 
This coming June the exalted post of Vice-President for Student Affairs will fall vacant. The incumbent, Rev. Thomas E. Blantz is a decent man. He is a learned historian who seems distinctly uncomfortable in an ad­ministrative position. Teaching is his first duty and with his resignation he is returning to it. That, we feel, is a very good decision, good for Fr. Blantz and good for the students. Itis patently unwise for a man to stay on in a position he no longer desires and patently unfair to the students whom he oversees. 
A search committee has been formed, a search committee with a token student, Student Body President John Barkett. They will, in the next months, be scouring the nation for a man to fill the position. The possibility that the annointed one will be a Holy Cross Priest is a strong one, but finding that priest will be a very difficult task. 
It will be difficult not simply because a good administrator is needed, Notre Dame has an adequate supply of men who can riffle papers with the brst of them, but because they will be looking for a man who has the rare gift of courage. They will be looking for aman who can look beyond his administrative problems and percieve the problems that haunt the lives of so many Notre Dame students and then strike out boldly and forcefully to effect solutions to them. To move boldly and forcefully doesn't require an extraordinary amount of courage, it requires imagination, and drive and confidence. To move boldly and forcefully in the face of opposition, opposition from superiors, such as the exalted Provost of this University does require courage. 
The search committee cannot make the mistake of choosing a weak man for the position. They cannot choose a man who will bow to pressure easily. They cannot choose such a man because if they do they will be cheating the students. They will be cheating the students because a weak man will tender no opposition to a priest who has never and probably will never have the interests of the students at heart--the Provost. 
A strong Vice President for Student Affairs nay not 'be enough of a deterrent to the Provost's often heavy handed tactics. He may not be able to turn the Provost's thoughts from preoccupation with sawdust in the halls. But if he is a strong man, if he is an honest man, if he is a decent man then perhaps he will be able to prevent the Provost from reigning supreme. And that would be a very good thing. 
The search committee should make every effort to find their candidate from the members of this university. They should make every effort to find a man who will not be hopelessly vexed by administrative problems, a man who knows the students of this school, a man who believes in the students of this school. Whether this man be priest or lay makes little difference--a human being's inherent worth is not strengthened or diminished when he puts on a collar. 
The Vice-President for Student Affairs is one of those jobs where it's 
scope and bounds are determined largely by the man who occupys it. Itis 
a difficult job, a demanding job, but rewarding. The search committee's 
task will be a difficult one, difficult because of the Provost and difficult 
because of the impending merger. But it is a job that must be done and 
done well. 
THE STAFF


m=== I
• 

Nite Editor: Joe Abell mott, Debbie Carella(who actually can 
Ass't Nite Editors: Jack Frischkora, shutup). Nora Mullee Maria Gallagher(the Black). Marlene Typists: Helen Smudski, Pat Kenny, Joe Zloza Wilkowski, Dianne Chermside, Fran Headlines: Don Biancamano Finnegan, Barb Norcross 
Day Editors: Pete Fries, Tom Drape nite controller: mark j. niederkorn Sporting Editor: Jim Donaldson Features Editor: Marty Miller(heavy, 1. i won't say anything this week, m man) 2. hello to m's east coast friends 
And of course, the Rabble: Peggy Lawlor, 3. where's the toad? Ed Ellis., Don Ruane(in his first ap­4. i'm on what list? pearance this semester), Mike Baum, 5. resist what urge? John Abowd, T.C. Treanor, Jim MeDer-6. who couldn't wait for robo? 
t,. 
'\ 
i 
.-: 
\ 
\ 't 
; 
i. 
\ 
\ 
·'
'-\ 
), 
-q;/' \ 
/
./'\ 
l 
,,/ 
\ 
I 
' 
/ 
...... 


The current Ralph Nader sponsored controversy over the increase in the price support level for milk is an excellent example of how political financing influences bad economic policy. 
Nader contends that the dairy industry cajoled a price support in­crease from the Nixon administration by making large campaign contributions to dummy Republican committees. The financial requirements of a modern campaign prevent consumers from in­fluencing policy in a similar manner. Deprived of this power, the buyer frequently gets blasted by the very kind of program the milk price controversy represents. 
Farm products in general exhibit a property which economists call price inelastic. This means that over the relevant range of prices the amount of corn (or milk) sold will vary only a small amount. Because the quantity of milk produced in a given year is also roughly constant, farm owners are faced with very flexible yearly incomes if the price of their wares takes an unexpected shift during the time when they are unable to vary the supply. The policy of price supports was developed to stabilize the income of small farmers who, before World War II, constituted the bulk of the farming industry. 
Now that the professional dairy farmer constitutes the over­whelming percentage of the industry, the price support system merely improves these farmers' profits without really having any over­whelmingly humane purpose. Price supports create an artificial shortage of milk by preventing all the milk produced from being sold at actual market price. Supports only work if the support price is in excess of the market price. Then, the government enters the market and buys all the milk which consumers have chosen not to purchase at the artificially high price. Because dairy farmers are only lining their pockets with the extra profits generated by the support price, it is clearly not in the consumers' interest to allow this policy to continue. 
If, as Nader contends, the dairy industry was able to muster an extra $322,500 for the Nixon campaign fund the current milk price must not be causing abject poverty for the tightly organized dairy farmers. Unfortunately consumers, as an organized "special in­terest" group wield no such financial power. This leaves only two options. Either private financing of political campaigns must discontinue or consumer!' must organize their own special interest groups. 
The first option is the better of the two. Publically financed cam­paigns free the individual candidates from the pressures of returning promises which they have made in order to secure their campaign funds. The Congress approved a plan which would have created publically financed campaigns but, predictably, the rich Republicans <read: Nixon) sent it back to wallow for a few more years while they collect some debts that are past due. 
In the absence of the preferable option the importance of consumer oriented special interest groups can't be over emphasized. The only really potent consumer groups are the Consumer's Union and the collective Public Interest Research Groups. Nader is organizing another group, The Public Citizen, PC's principle objective is to build for consumer's the same kind of informal political influence that special interests like the dairy industry currently enjoy. Ifonly 100,000 people contribute the yearly ten dollar dues, PC will have an annual lobby fund of one million dollars. Only the American Medical Association has spent more money than this lobbying in one year. Granted that a consumer oriented group won't eliminate the problem of special interest lobbies but as a counter-action to the faculty ploicies sponsored by groups like the dairy association, PC is one of the few realistic choices. 

Friday, January 28, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
Maria Gallagher 
•

Wrenched Connection: Tragedy 1n one act 
MOVIE REVIEW: 
AVAILABLE AT A STUDENT DISCOUNT THE WRENCHED CONNECTION AT THE CRYPT. <A FARCE, A MYSTERY, A THRILLER: NOW PLAYING ON CAMPUS SPONSORED BY THE ND-SMC 
I first heard of "The Wrenched Con­BOARDS OF TRUSTEES) nection" back in December; it had just 

STARRING: come out and everyone was talking about SISTER ALMA PETER it. Long before I set foot in the theatre I MOTHER OLIVETTE WHALEN had been primed with comments that the SISTER GERALD HARTNEY flick was "a real shocker, full of sexism 
f<~DMUND STEPHAN and violence" and it was observed by some FATHER THEODORE HESBURGH that t~ey . coul~n't understand how ...AND A CAST OF APPROXIMATELY somethmg hke _this could ever be made. 
Nevertheless, It was and I set out to

8000 
discover for myself just what all the fussing was about.

PHODUCED AND DIRECTED BY: 'Incensed' hardly suffices to describeTHE ND-SMC BOARDS OF TRUSTEES the reaction of the audience which was<SEPAHATELY, OF COURSE) 
alternately provoked from temper to tears THIS MOVIE IS to nausea at varying intervals. Some 
RATED STRICTLY ND-walked out before it was all over. Others
·NO ST. MARY'S GIRLS ADMITTED remarked afterward that they wished they had. "I kept waiting for things to get better," said Gary Carouser (a student who attended for what he called "personal THE THEME SONGS "THE HELLS OF reasons"), "but they didn't. They got
ST. MARY'S" AND THE "FIGHT BACK" SONG II(<~ARD AT THE BEGINNING 
worse." AND THE END OF THIS FILM ARE So did the whispering around the theatre 
as the film progressed. The most 
frequently asked question seemed to be, 
"What's going on?" 
The film's major flaw was the non-plot 
which no one was able to follow; this was 
extremely annoying. Several aspects 
contradicted themselves. Dialogue was 
contrived and cliche-ridden (e.g. "There is 
no reason why St. Mary's should suffer," 
expostulates Sister Gerald in one heart­
rending scene), and the characters were 
little better than animated robots. In all, 
the audience was left confused throughout 
and, finally, insulted. 
Photography, in a futile attempt to project "inner meaning" into the film and lend it some artistic value (which it sorely lacked) falls flat. The secret board of trustees meeting scenes are rather hard on the eyes as they were shot through keyholes, producing a collective squint from the audience. 
Th~ acting was, to put it bluntly, atrocious and unforgiveable. Sister Alma Peter, who plays the acting-up president, in reality doesn't do much acting. She bungles her lines occasionally and reveals a noticeable stage fright. Sister Gerald and Mother Olivette make only cameo appearances, but nevertheless show themselves to be uncomfortable in front of cameras. Edmund Stephan doesn't ap­pear at all. Fr. Hesburgh's suave reputation suffers as we are disappointed by his lofty but nebulous commentary. 
However, some individuals do deserve commendation. Kathy Barlow, who utilizes her dynamic role to its fullest, will certainly be heard from in the future. John Barkett provides adequate but hesitant support. Nancy Christopher's ad Jibs sparkle and some were so good they reportedly had to be edited out! 
Is "The Wrenched Connection" a film worth seeing'? For $1900, it isn't. However, you can decide that for yourself­-it's being held over for the second big month (and supposedly last) right here on campus. If you like movies that combine the shock impact of a "Psycho," the prevarication and equivocation of a Nixon speech, the touching moments of a "Love Story," and a plot equivalent to "Last Summer," then this could be the one for you. 
Tomorrow's featured flick will be "Gidget goes to Notre Dame (but gets her degree from St. Mary's)." 

Tom Bornholdt 
French Connection: Priceless 
For the first one half hour, the intelligent 
viewer watching The French Connection 
will probably be disappointed. After 
hearing about what a great movie it is, the 
viewer may find this flick just a cinema 
version of the old TV series, NYPD. 
l<'or about half an hour. 
The l<,rench Connection begins to grow on the viewer. The plot remains difficult to follow, but soon the observing eye learns to focus more on character and setting. It is only after the setting and characters have been firmly etched in the audience's mind, does the plot build up momentum. Soon it's travelling at such a pace that the adrenalin glands have a challenge on their hands. The chase scene is one of the great moments in American motion pictures, and is in itself, worth shelling out three bucks for. 
To dismiss the film as mere escapism however, is to do it the ultimate injustice, for it is far deeper than that. The person who has just been watching the "action" of the film is not going to fully appreciate the l'nding. The reason why the detai!s of the plot are hard to follow, is that the essential theme does not require the viewer's om­niscience. The NY I'D type realism serves not as a platform for a misanthropic script writer, but is necessary for both characterization and setting. 
It is impossible to understand The French Connection without first grokking its central character, Sergeant Doyle. Doyle is a New York City narc, and is originally presented in the Tough Cop cliche. Certain things are quickly noted about Doyle. First, fighting drugs has become more than a job for Doyle, it is purpose in life. Secondly, Doyle is plebian, bordering on Philistine. He is shown drunk, the film not too subtly trying to compare alcohol with the drugs he abhors. Tough Cop's sexual morality is in­significant to thirteen decimal places. His language is perpetually profane and crude. "Shove it up your ass" is Doyle attempting to be sophisticated. 
The similarities between Doyle and "Joe" strikes one early in the picture. In my case, I dropped the idea towards the end, only to have it brought back by the events of the picture's end. The viewer should make his own decision on this matter, but I should mention one im­portant contrast. Doyle must be con­sidered as a far stronger character than "Joe". The former is both cunning and daring in the face of danger, the later was inevitably presented as a wolf let loose in a pack of lambs. 
Doyle's problem in the film, is that he switches his opponents from the small time pushers to the wealthy people who get heroin into America. Together with Sexy Partner, Tough Cop uses a "lead" in order to fight those trying to sell a shipment of "horse". Doyle encounters more resistance than he is used to. The criminals eventually hire an assassin to snipe at Doyle. Doyle shows enough toughness to cut diamonds --violence is part of the city and he can handle violence better than his foes. 
But Doyle runs up against something with which he is unable to cope. Charnier, the Frenchman, is a true man of culture and class. Charnier comes from a background alien to Doyle, a background of sophistication and intelligence. 
The basic conflict of the story is between Doyle and Charnier. All other characters are secondary. Frustrated by a being beyond his understanding, Doyle lets the battle consume him. To say anything more, would be to deprive potential viewer's of a worthwhile experience. 
Acting is superb. Photography isn't pretty, but it wasn't supposed to be. 
Rather one comes away from the French Connection with a real sense of what a zoo New York City really is <but a fascinating zoo at that). A movie that is as exciting and as intelligent as The French Con­nection is rare and priceless gem. 

Last Grasp Film Series 
The St. Mary's Last Grasp Film Series has miraculously succeeded the Last Gasp. The rapidity and mystery of campus events makes coining accurate titles for our series difficult, but it is clear that St. Mary's is being grasped for, whoever the graspers may be. We tried to organize a naming contest, and the few entries we received included Phoenix Film Series, Health-Related Cinema and SMC Get-It­While-You-Can Movies. The winner received 2 season tickets, a trip to Niles and a recording of the last true and clear statement made by the administrations and Trustees regarding merger. 
We're offering 19 first-rate films. The opener was Bergman's "Wild Strawberries". On Jan. 28 perhaps the best film of the series, Resnais' "LaGuerre est f<'inie", shows. starring Yves Montand, Ingrid Thulin and Genvieve Bujold. The story is of an aging revolutionary trying to make sense of his loyalty to Spain and his love while caught in the abstractions of exile in Paris. The screenwriter is Jorge Semprun, who also did "Z" and "The Confession". "Cat and Mouse" (2-4), from Gunter Grass' novel, tells of a precocious adolescent coming of age in Nazi Ger­many. Feb. 11, 12 & 13 is a weekend of 
RAP needs help 
Anyone who has felt down knows what a drag it is not to have anyone to talk to. The Rap Center at 209 Western Avenue hopes to provide an open at­mosphere in which people can communicate about their problems. 
The center is a storefront and phone operation open from lOAM to 2AM every day. It provides experienced help with drug problems from drug iden­tification to bum tips. The referral system can direct people to a variety of free services such as draft counseling, pregnancy and abortion help, medical and psychiatric aid. Anyone can drop in or call to talk about whatever is on his mind. 
At this time volunteers are desperately needed to help staff the center. As a staff person one deals with a variety of social problems and works closely with a tight collective. 

In order to join the staff each trainee must come to the center for a short informative interview. 
Applicants must take a twenty­h6ur course run by center per­~onnel which lasts two weeks. Staff members and professionals will lead discussions on drugs, law, personality, reality therapy; there will be role-playing of day­to-day crises seen at the center. After completion of the training course several weeks of on-the­job work must be completed before the regular staff may vote a trainee on to the staff. 
The next training session for the Rap Center will begin on Monday, January 31. Anyone interested in working there should come down in person or call the center at 289-7986. 
mystery films , beginning with the Hit­chcock thriller, "Notorious", starring Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman. "ThP Sleeping Car Murder" follows, directed by Costa Gravas and featuring Yves Mon­tand. Chase scenes are popular these day ... and even in a Dauphine there's a super ont· here. The Sunday film is the Gerrn:m classic, "M ", a superb exploration of .t 
psychopathic  personality;  starring  ltH'  
young Peter  Lorre and directed by  th"  
grPat Fritz Lang.  

On Feb. 18 Glenda Jackson starts in UJP tragi-comi-grotesque "Negatives", a recent English film. On Feb. 25 there h "The Loneliness of the Long-Distanc• · Runner" with Tom Courtenay. It featur• the best of all up-yours-adult-world scent Rune! 's "Tristana ", starring Catheriw Deneuve plays Mar. 3, and chronicles th degradation of a young girl by hypocritical society. Mar. 10, 11, 12 thn·· · anti-war films are shown, beginning with Joseph Losey's "King and Countr.; starring Tom Courtenay and Dirk Bogarw· in World War I; followed by the 19fill Rossellini-deSica masterpiece, "Generill della Hobere" (139 min.); and climaxed hy Ichikawa's vision of hell, "Fires on the Plain". On Mar. 18 the recent American play and film, "The Great White Hope" plays, with James Earl Jones. On Mar. 19 there is the delightful "The Shameless Old Lady" with Sylvie and by Brecht. "Lord of the Flies", after the Golding novel plays on Apr. 7, makes the anti-war films look like child's play, so to speak. To balance such somber fare, the Last Grasp offers "The Wrong Box" on April 14, starring Peter Sellers, Michael Caine, Ralph Richardson, and others. Some critics claim it was more fun than a barrel of monkeys. "The Overcoat" (4-21) from Gogol's story is one of the best films of this or any series. The dignity and fragility of a man were never clearer. "Member of the Wedding," starring Julie Harris, directed by Stanley Kramer, plays Apr. 28. It's based on Carson McCuller's tender play about an awkward and lonely girl caught between childhood and adolescence. Our last film is "Playboy of the Western World" on May 5. The great Irish actress Siobhan McKenna stars in this screening of Synge's play. 
All the films are scheduled to show in Carroll Hall at St. Mary's. Show times will be 3:30, 7 & 9 on Fri & Sat, 2 & 8 on Sun. Season tickets are a bargain: 19 films for $6, 10 admissions for $4; single admission 75 cents. On sale at the SMC bookstore and at the door. Thanks to RLST & Engl for help in sponsoring. 

,---~--~ ~------­
Page 8 THE OBSERVER 
Letters 
I concur, but ... 

Editor: 
While I concur (although for different reasons) in your sup­port of Dean Shaffer's expansion plan for the Law School, I must take exception to your rather disparaging statement regarding the quality of the school's student body and faculty both of which you believe must be "sharply upgraded". 
We law students have learned that, in constructing a case or an appeal, FACTS are the all­important commodity. Any conclusion which can not be objectively and expressly sup­ported by concrete facts will be torn apart much to the em­barrassment of the party ren­dering the unsubstantiated conclusion. Thus, we learn: if one can not speak with the objective knowledge that will support his conclusion, it is better not to speak at all. 
All of this is by way of suggesting that your comment regarding the caliber of the Law School's constituency is entirely unwarranted and unfounded and thus should not have been printed. To support my con­clusion I give you the following facts: 
1. 
This year's entering class of approximately 140 students had an average LSAT score of 620 and an average Q.P.I. of 3.35-does this indicate a low quality student? 

2. 
Of those already accepted for the entering class in the Fall of 1972, the average LSAT score is 645 while the average Q.P .I. is 3.45-does thisFACT substantiate your alleged need for a "sharply upgraded" student body? 

3. 
In the last seven years three 


(3) Notre Dame Law Graduates have been appointed clerks to the United States Supreme Court ­surely this is a record to be lauded not maligned. 
4. Regarding the faculty, their record speaks for itself. These professionals are well respected attorneys, authors and educators. They are admired by those who know the law and are far above your uninformed reproach. 
May I suggest, therefore, that you learn from those who you so freely attack-be able to support your conclusions with facts rather than injudiciously allege conclusions incapable of verification. 
Tony Palumbo Second Year Notre Dame Law School 
Another Man's Opinion 

Editor: 
Although it would be relatively easy to respond to the eight specific "contentions" of Mr. Hartzer and the executive board of the Student Bar Association (concerning the "law school addition" announced today), I feel that a more general criticism is warranted. Namely: < 1 l In purporting to be a "representative" body of the law school community, the SBA should have waited until after the results of Fridays referendum before issuing any statements in our behalf. 
(2) Dean Shaffer's factually substantiated and well reasoned decision honestly appears to be the ONLY realistic choice <although not idealistic) when confronted with the universally adniitt~d need for a prompt a_ltera_bon of our physical plant
situation. <3) Most importantly, I take issue 
Friday, January 28, 1972 
on editorials~.

• 
"Goodbye, Sister Alma." The editorial may be reduced to this syllogism: 
Anyone who opposes the 
merger (or should I say sub­
Merger) of St. Mary's 
College, with the University 
of Notre Dame, must go. 
But Sister Alma, Acting 
President of St. Mary's 
College, (apparently) has 
opposed this merger. 
Therefore she must go. 
In the first place, the editorial is immature and it is difficult to answer immaturity with reason. It is a good example of what Ayn Rand terms an "escape for the necessity of rational perception." 
Secondly, it contains a vicious attack (I would say almost an insult> leveled at Sister Alma who has stood fast in her con­victions under great pressure from the University of Notre Dame and from a vociferous group of students on both sides of the highway. 
Thirdly, the editorial is another lerfect example of the rigidity, iogmatism and re-actionism of :he liberal left which is self­righteous and omniscent. 
Fourth, I believe this editorial requires a public apology, by the person who wrote it, to a great, learned, experienced and knowledgeable Sister of the Holy Cross who, in a most difficult position, has refused to budge from what she sincerely believes is the right and correct course to follow according to the spirit of our Founder and the wholesome traditions of the Congregation of Holy Cross, to say nothing of the mind of the Church. (Cf. Vatican II "Perfectae Caritatis") 
Fifth, this editorial exhibits a complete lack of diplomacy and finesse and, consequently has set up a great obstacle to the merger <if this is ever to take place) of these two institutions of higher learning and, therefore, has defeated its purpose. This is a vindictive not a constructive editorial. 
Sincerely yours, Christopher J. O'Toole, C.S.C., Ph. D. 
.. There are more letters on tht~ following page. These are a sample of reactions to recen1t editorials. -ed. 
People & Song 

TONIGHT Alumni lounge 
presents 
Dan Koehler And Randy Sarton 
Butch Ward 

Refreshments PI u s m ore 9 -2 am 25c Admission Everyone Welcome 
with the implicit presupposition of the SBA's contentions. Im­puting "good faith" to all con­cerned, to purport that the opinion of a few three year transients is better or more concerned than that of a highly competent and sensitive professional who has dedicated his career to Notre Dame Law School is egotistically naive! ! ! 
In the words of the immortal Howard Cossell, I openly limit the scope of this letter; this is "just one man's opinion." 
Sincerely, 
Michael C. Schaefer Third Year Law 
Sr. Alma: Poor Editorial 
Editor: 
While I have often doubted the sensitivity and sensibility of the editorial policy of the Observer, I have never been as compelled to object to is as I am now to your editorial on Sr. Alma's resignation. 
Your attempt to bury Sr. Alma shows many of the weaknesses that have become trademarks of Observer editorials. It is snide, in poor taste, and immaturely written. It seeks to find a simple solution---hopefully with a con­venient villian---for the complex problems of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
Admittedly, Sr. Alma's ad­ministration has been a difficult one and there were many problems in it that could have been averted. But that does not grant license to flaunt rudeness and porrly considered opinions. 
Perhaps if the editorials were 
the responsibility of an editorial students by one fifth may require admission decisions detrimental to the kind of "quality" which does not automatically ac­company high LSAT scores and grade point averages. 

Concerning the faculty, it is at least possible that faculty members at law schools, often working for considerably less money than is available in legal practice, may be attracted and retained by the prospect of ex­cellent office and research facilities, a student-faculty ratio that allows time for pursuit of their own interests, an auditorium in which to hold lectures, symposia, and so forth, as well as outstanding students. There is considerable disagreement as to whether "the ideal plan" can respond to these needs. 
Finally, the design of the ad­dition itself, according to persons with considerably more ar­chitectural expertise than myself, is a disaster, consisting basically of a library addition and lots of cosmetic and costly alterations. Rather than the client (i.e. the Law School) telling the architect what is needed and desired, the architect has presented the client with the product. 
Tim Hartzer 
President 
Student Bar Association 

Alma Editorial: Must Go 
Editor: 

These remarks concern an 
editorial which appeared in "The 
Observer, "January 21, entitled: 
board, or written with the slightest attempt at fairness, this letter and others would not be needed. 

mardi gras
Jim McDermott 
402 Keenan 

RAFFLE BDDK INCENTIVE: 
Definition of Quality 

TOP CAMPUS SELLER
Editor: 
All of us would agree that the 
(east and west campus­
"quality" of the faculty and student body is of primary im­

$500 
portance over bricks and mortar. 

minimum of 200 books sold}
Therefore, it is not the lack of a new $6 million law center that disturbs us most, but the 

2nd CAMPUS SELLER relationship between Dean Shaffer's "ideal plan" and that 
(min. 100 books sold)
"quality" we are all seeking. The definiton of "quality" is where 

$250 
we taken issue with the Dean. 
As to admission standards, the Dean reported the following on January 24: "Applications for 

3rd-5th CAMPUS SELLER
admission to the class entering next fall, as of December 31, stand at 787,129 from Notre Dame 


(min. 50 books students; this compares with 490 applications, 72 of them from Notre Dame, on December 21, 
sold) 
1970. Out inquiries total 5,282, as compared with 2,807 at this time last year. The admissions committee recommended 30 

TOP SELLER EACH HALL
admissions in its first action of the year; the average L.S.A.T. score in that group is 645; G.P.A., 

(min. IS books 
3.4... " By objective criteria, it is 
$50
difficult to foresee a marked increase in standards. However, 
sold) 
t:be
student "quality" is also a func­
ntsney
tion of diversity based on such 
UJOr<Lb
things as geographical 

TOP HALL rellresentation, minority group membership, sex, undergraduate 
_,:agtiasN 
colleges, and age. During my three years here the Law School 

$500 has been distinguished by a greater diversity of this sort than 
books per capita to win -3) 
ever before. A reduction of 


Friday, January 28, 1972 
THE OBSERVER 

law buildings, 'fridges, and the ace 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF FEBRUARY 2-4 
You Must sign up immediately in Room 222 Ad Bldg. 
FEB. 2 AERONAUTICAL SYSTEMS DIVISION. 

All degree levels in A.E., E.E. and M.E. 
W.T. GRANT CO. 

BBA in Marketing and Management. 
HUNT WESSON FOODS, INC. 
BBA in Marketing, Management and Finance. 
NASA LANGLEY RESEARCH CENTER. 
All degree levels in A.E., E.E. and M.E. 
Pf.WVIDENT MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. 
BA and BBA. 
I FEU CLAIROL, INC. BA and BBA. 

II AI LM>\R K CARDS. INC. 

BA, BBA in Accounting, Marketing and 
Management. MBA. BS, !\IS in M.E. 
•111d Math AA and MAin English. 
IIAZEL TINE (ORP llS in E.E., ME. and M.E.I.O. NCR (N,ltional Cash Register Co.) 
All degree levels in E. E. and M.E. BBA in Accounting. I flU r,vco ELECTRONICS DIVISION. BS, MS in E.E. 
Gl F-F ELS ASSOCIATES, INC. BS, Ph.D. in C. E., E. E. and M.E. B. of Arch. 
These facts show that the above  
fine is unwarranted. As a com­promise measure I propose that the $30.00 fine be changed to a $5.00 permit fee providing: 1) the refrigerator capacity is less than :3 cubic feet, and 2) the average power consumption is less than a value specified by the university. lin my opinion 75 watts is a fair choice.) Furthurmore, if the fine is reduced to a $5.00 permit fee Alpha Phi Omega and the Student Union will submit a list of those who rented refrigerators to the university. Hay DeCarlo Pres. Alpha Phi Omega Jim Schnied Student Union Services Commission  ACC Jerks Editor: Observations by an observer who wanted to play a little basketball last Saturday mor­ning: Why was the door to the rearoftheACC <gate6A) locked? Why was one of only two doors to the student lockerroom locked? Why no soap in the showers? Why "sorry no towels"? Don't ask any_ Ace personnel, especially the Jerk who com­mands from the seat of a Cush­man golf cart by saying: "That's the way we always have things around here." Well jerk, for your information, gate 6A is often open, perhaps because there is a parking lot back there. Such was often the case over the past vacation.  door is usually open. What do you think the local fire officials would say to such a large and ofter crowded room with a blocked exit? Lastly, once and a while you have soap in the showers although it is less frequently a tired body is blessed with a clean towel. One last question: For whose benefit is the ACC being run anyway? ...For the students or some jerk employee touring on a golf cart? Let's get with it all you paper shufflers supposedly managing the ACC, Jerk isn't paying the fees. Sincerely, Patrick J. Casey 544 W. 3rd St.  
Secondly, the 'other' locker room  Mishwaka, Ind. 46544  


In just one exciting Speed Reading lesson Lifetime Membership you too can increase your reading and study speed (with no loss in comprehen­If you want further improvement in your speed 
sion) 50 to 100%-F-REE. At the Free of .-eading, study, comprehension, and recall skill Speed Reading lesson you will learn how you can, as a Reading Dynamics graduate, repeat the Evelyn Wood course handles difficult 
the course at any time. 
text book material. How it improves memory and concentration. And, how it makes reading pleasure instead of ,....----Free Speed Reading Lessons -----..
a a chore. Attend a Free Speed Reading les­son. It could change your life too! 
ATIEND 

Over 500,000 graduates including 
A FREE SPEED READING

Dean Amstead, University of Texas Rear Admiral Ashworth 
lESSON. INCREASE YOUR 
Birch Bayh, U.S. Congress McGeorges Bundy, JFK Cabinet 
READING SPEED 50 TO 
Clark Clifford, LBJ Cabinet Superintendent Estes, St. Louis 
100% ON THE SPOT. 
Dean Gates, Beaver College John Glenn, Astronaut 
TODAY,

S. 1. Hayakawa, San Francisco State Charlton Heston Mrs. Jacob Javltts 
SATURDAY, 

Herman Jones, U.S. District Judge Edward Kennedy, U.S. Congress 
SUNDAY

Burt Lancaster George McGovern, U.S. Congress Marshall Mcluhan 
6&8PM 

Dr. Frank Moya, Miami University William Proxmlre, U.S. Congress 
Center for Continuing 

Dr. Margaret Ratz, Principia College 
Education 
George Segal Judge Juanita Kldd Stout 
Across from The Morris Inn 

Ben Wllllnghan, Genesco President 
Success Warranty! 

98% success! Anyone who falls to Improve at least 3 times receives a full tuition refuncll 
•
£w.llpi111H4 READING DYNAMICS 
It's Unanimous 

l<~ditor: 
I have been asked to call the following to your attention: 
It was recommended that it 
be made a matter of record 
that the administrative team 
as a group object strenuously 
to the editorial on Sister 
Alma (January 21 issue of 
The Observer) and condemn 
it utterly as unchristian, 
inhuman, and un­
professional. 
A motion was made and 
seconded that the above statement be sent to The Ob­server for publication. The motion carried unanimously. 
Sincerely yours, Sister M. Haphaelita, C.S.C. 
Br. Kieran Cold on Ice Boxes 
(The following is a letter sent to Brother Kieran Ryan, Assistant Vice-President for Business Affairs by Ray DeCarlo and Jim Schnied. The letter in the middle was sent to DeCarlo by a professional engineer.--ed.) 
Dear Brother Kieran Ryan, 
As you know the university fines students $30.00 for having a refrigerator. You have told me that the reason for the fine is to stop the proliferation of refrigerators, because this proliferation (of refrigerators and appliances with high power consumption l overloads the hall wiring and in some cases the power lines feeding the halls. Hall rewiring costs upwards of $50,000.00; installing new feed lines averages $10,000.00 per hall. It would seen then that the fine serves two purposes: 1) to deter students from purchasing or renting refrigerators and 2) to help defray the cost of hall rewiring. With approximately 1000 refrigerators on campus, the univeristy receives $30,000.00 in funds. 
First consider the word fine. A fine is "a sum imposed for punishment of an offence." 
Students are fined for having a refrigerator. No university regulation bans refrigerators. In fact the university approved APO's refrigerator rental project. In point I question the use of the word fine. 
Secondly consider the following letter which describes a study made on the Mini-Kool refrigerator: 
Dear Mr. DeCarlo: 
At your request I have run tests from September 28 to October 2, 1971 on the refrigerator unit that you submitted to me. 
I believe the per­formance is quite satisfactory. The power consumption averages about 43 watts; the motor and compressor run 54 percent of the time and draw 80 watts when run­ning. This would cost about two cents a day. For comparison, it is about one­fifth the power con­sumption of a typical small color T.V. 
This unit draws about four times rated current !from 4.2 to 4.7 amps at about :120 watts l on star­ting, but this drops in less than one half second to near operating level. Thirty or forty of these in a hall should have little more effect on power failure than a dozen more 100-watt light bulbs. 
If I can be of further service to you, please contact me. 
Arthur J. Quigley Professional Engineer Indiana 05451 
This letter shows that the Mini­Kool unit consumes little power. Therefore one cannot construe it as a cause of power line overload. Moreover, most modern units whose capacity is less than 3 cu. ft. are similar to the mini-Kool unit. The cost of the electricity consumed is less that $5.00 for a nine month period. 
Take a free Speed Reading Lesson on Evelyn Wood 

Page 10 THE OBSERVER Friday, January 28, 1972 
by Vic Dorr 

Little more than a month ago, the UCLA Bruins met Notre Dame in a nationally televised 
night game in Pauley Pavilion. The defending NCAA champions crushed the Irish, 114-56, and the game was little more than a display of UCLA's devastating abilities. 
At 3:40 tomorrow afternoon, Notre Dame and UCLA will again meet in a nationally televised game. The casts will be the same. But the set will be different--it will be Notre Dame's Athletic and Convocation Center. And Irish coach Digger Phelps is hoping for more than a change in the set. He's also hoping for a change in the script. 
But before Phelps' 3-9 squad can even begin to worry about the Bruins, they must face 9-3 Illinois at 9:15 tonight <CST) in Chicago Stadium. 
"We aren't looking ahead to UCLA at all," said Phelps. "We're taking them one by one, and right now we're concerned with Illinois. They're a good team, and we want to beat them." 
The Irish, who dropped a 69-66 overtime decision to the Illini last year, have good reason to respect their opponents from Champaign Despite injury problems, the Illinois roster is dotted with impressive talent, and the lllini will try to beat the Irish by relying on that part of their game. 
"They'll want to try to beat us with their talent," said Pehlps .. "They'll probably press us, and they'll try to get inside and beat us on the boards. We'll just have to go out after them, and we'll have to try to stay with our game plan." 
Most of Illinois' scoring talent comes from the duo of 6-6 for­ward Nick Weatherspoon (averaging 19.1) and 6-9 center Bill Morris 06.2). Forward Nick Connor is averaging 12.2, and guards Jim Krelle and Larry Cohen are hitting at clips of 15.0 and 4.2 respectively. 
But the Illinois coaches are not without their respect, either. "They (Notre Dame) do some things in their press that have bothered us this season" ad­mitted Illini coach Harv Schmidt. "They have been humiliated a 
Hockey tix now $1 

Notre Dame and St. Mary's students may purchase tickets for this weekend's hockey games between Notre Dame and Wisconsin for only one dollar, Notre Dame ticket manager, Don Bouffard, announced yesterday. 
Faceoff for both the Friday and Saturday night games will be 7:45. 

the tempo of the game at both ends of the floor. Walton is good for more than 14 rebounds a game, and Wilkes and Swen Nater, a 6-11 reserve, are averaging 7.9 and 6.5 respec­tively. 
On defense, the Bruins employ a press of their own, and they employ it with predictable results. Notre Dame's chances against such offensive and defensive prowess are not good, but Digger Phelps is not ready to give up--not by any means. 
"We've got to hope for better shooting," he said, "both from the line and from the field. We had a good night the other night against Marquette's press--we only had 10 turnovers--and I hope we can keep that up, too. 
''Our kids l,lre developing confidence in themselves. They're beginning to believe in the system, and tl-tey're playing well as a team. We're improving steadily, and one of these days we're going to upset someone." 
But, despite Digger's con­fidence, the chances of an Irish upset this weekend are fairly slim. And come Saturday af­ternoon they'll be slimmest of all. 

-Compliments of a friend 
couple of times, but they are a young team and are making progress with the press." 
The subject of humiliation will 

be very much on the minds of 
both the Irish players and the 
Irish fans on Saturday, when 
John Wooden, Bill Walton, Henry 
Bibby, and the rest of the UCLA 
squad make their appearance in 
the Convocation Center. 
The Irish may have the in­centive factor going for them in this game, but that, along with the home-floor advantage, will be about the only plusses they'll be able to claim. UCLA is currently 14-Q, and the Bruins have been busy since their December romp against Notre Dame. 
They've won nine games since then, and were threatened in only one. The scare came against Oregon State, a team which gave the Bruins all they could handle before finally yielding, 78-72. 
But that has been the only scare, and UCLA has most recently polished off Santa Clara (92-57) and Denver (108-61). John Wooden, as low-key as ever after his team's 13th and 14th wins, would only say that: "I was well pleased with our play over the past weekend in most all respects." 
The Irish will get a brief chance to scout UCLA Friday night, for the Bruins are also tabbed to play in the Stadium. They will meet Loyola of Chicago at 7:30 <CST) in the first half of the scheduled double-header. 
"We'll have to play them the same way we did last time," said Phelps, as he considered his team's chances against the Bruins. "We'll just have to score more points than we did last time, and we'll have to try to hold them down. We'll have to try to contain them. 
"But the thing about UCLA," he admitted, "is that they have eight or nine great ballplayers. If one of them is off, that's not going to help us at all--because someone else will just pick up the slack. We're hoping we can catch them on a day when they're all off." 
Catching all of the Bruins on an 

off night, though, is a tall order. ·The team Wooden will be displaying tomorrow afternoon is shooting 51 per cent from the field and 74 per cent from the line through their first 14 games. UCLA's offensive leaders are 6-11 sophomore Bill Walton <averaging 20.1) and senior Henry Bibby (18.8). Keith Wilkes 
03.8) and Larry Farmer (11.7) are the other Bruins scoring in double figures. 
The Bruins are averaging 102.6 points a game, and have scored over 100 points on nine occasions this year. And the Uclans also have the rebounding to control 

Hey! Do You Know That You Don't Have To Be 21 To Play Pool At 
FRANKIE'S? 
Everyday Specials  
-Ocean Perch  $1.25  
-10 oz. Rib-Eye Steak  $1.50  
1-/2 Breasted  Chicken  $1.50  
Includes Tureen Soup, Salad,  

Bread, Butter And Coffee 
THf STROH BREWERY COMPANY. DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226 

Friday, January 28, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 11 
Irish ready for WCHA leaders 
by Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 

If you wanted to stage a first­rate hockey game, you'd match a couple of high scoring clubs, with good goaltenders, throw in a healthy rivalry and then drop the puck. That's just what the setting will be this weekend at the ACC when the Fighting Irish host the Wisconsin Badgers in a two­game, four point series Ftiday and Saturday nights. 
The Badgers, currently atop the WCHA standings with a 13-3 record and a 17-3 overall, boast the highest scoring team in the league, averaging 5.1 goals per game, and the top goalie in the circuit, Jim Makey, who has a mere 2.57 goals against average. 
The Irish, 7-7 in league play, 11­9 on the year, will counter with the second best scoring club in the WCHA. are averaging 4.85 goals per game, and goalie Dick Tomasoni who, while his goals against average is 4.27, is capable of doing an outstanding job in the nets, given adequate defensive support. 
The rivalry stems from the fact that the Irish have only a win and a tie to show in their nine meetings with Wisconsin. The Badgers won the first seven games between the two schools, some by wide margins like 12-0 and 10-2, when the Irish were still building their hockey program but last year, Notre Dame recorded a win and a tie against Wisconsin in the ACC. 
"We took some good lickings from Wisconsin in past years," Irish coach "Lefty" Smith said yesterday. Now that we're on a par with them, we're looking to make up for those defeats." 
The series is a key one for the Irish who, with 22 title points, trail the Badgers by 12 points in the league standings. But, with four games to play against Wisconsin in the next two weeks, Notre Dame still has hopes of catching the league leaders. 
The Irish climbed back into the thick of the WCHA race by sweeping an eight-point series from Minnesota last weekend in the Twin Cities. Coach Smith termed the series with the Gophers "critical" and he views the Wisconsin series in the same light. "I know it sounds shopworn but what else is there to say about the series but it's critical," Smith remarked. "We're in con­tention for first place but two victories is a m·ust." 
The Badgers haven't been swept in a series all season. They have top notch goaltending, strong defense, and forwards who can both score and forecheck as well as any in the WCHA. 
Senior co-captain Jim Young is Wisconsin's top scoring threat. Young has included six game winning goals among his team leading total of 16 and has been credited with 11 assists. Centers Dean Talafous, one of the league's top freshmen and Gary Winchester trail Young in the Badger point parade. Both have 26 points, Talafous on eight goals and 18 assists and Winchester on 10 goals and 16 assists. Young, Talafous and Winchester have each scored 22 points in WCHA competition. 
Co-captain Jeff Rotsch and Bob Lundeen, who has scored 10 goals, head the Badgers capable solid defense crew. Mackey has done most of the goaltending for Wisconsin although the Badgers are hopeful that freshman Dick Perkins,who compiled a 1.9 goals against average before being injured, will be able for duty against the Irish. 
"We are getting a lot of mileage out of our team," commented Wisconsin coach Bob Johnson earlier this week. "A lot of people are having goodyears. They are hard working hockey players and we have pretty good balance." 
The Irish have a couple of advantages going for them that may give them a slight ad­vantage in the series. The first is that the Badgers haven't played in two weeks because of their first semester examinations. In addition, Wisconsin will have to play without the services of Talafous Friday night. The talented frosh was ejected from the Badgers' last game against Colorado College and, according to league rules, must sit out his team's next game. Finally, the Irish will be skating on home ice, where they have lost but one of five games. 
But the Badgers still figure to give Notre Dame plenty of trouble. "I expect an explosive type series with lots of forechecking and skating," coach Smith commented. 
All of the Irish are healthy and set to go this weekend. Tomasoni will handle the goaltending chores and the Chisholm, Minn., senior has been doing an out­standing job of late. Bill Green and Bill Nyrop, who played some of their best hockey of the season 
last weekend, will team up on defense with Mark Steinborn and Steve Curry, respectively. 
At the forward positions, John Noble will skate between Paul Regan and Ric Schafer, John 

Jim Donaldson·==================================~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~====================================~=~===========================================================================~===~=~=~======================================================================= 
The Irish Eye 
::=====================::::::::=:=:=:===============:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=======================:::::=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::===========================:=:=:=:=:= 0 ne Wonderful Weekend 
Irish goalie Dick Tomasoni faces a stiff challenge this weekend as the WCHA-Ieading Wisconsin Radg<'rs visit Notre Dame for a two-game series. 
Campbell will center for Eddie Bumbacco and Ian Williams, and  22 goals and 15 assists. Willi~ms(l7-17) and Noble(7-27)  Inconsistency has plagued the Irish all season but coach Smith  
Pat Conroy will team with Larry  are bed for  the runner-up spot  feels that his club is at the top of  
Israelson and Jim Cordes. Regan is currently leading the Irish in scoring with 37 points on  with 34 points bacco\17-16) is points.  each and Bum-fourth with 33  its game. "The team is in a real good frame of mind," Smith said. "We're as ready as we can be."  

Not even the most dyed-in-the-wool sports fan could ask for a better 
schedule of athletic events than that slated to take place on campus 
this weekend. Today and tomorrow, Notre Dame is an athletic 
aficionado's paradise. 
There's something for everyone's sports taste as the Irish hockey, basketball, wrestling, swimming and track teams will all be in action this weekend. 
Heading the guest list of visiting teams are the national champion UCLA Bruins and the Wisconsin Badgers, pacesetters in the WCHA. 
Coach Dennis Stark's swimmers will be first on the program, taking on Bradley this afternoon at four o'clock in the Rockne Memorial pool. The 3-1 Irish feature a number of solid performers, including sprinter Gene Krathaus and diver Larry Lafratta. 
The hockey team moves into the spotlight tonight as they meet the Wisconsin Badgers, currently leading the WCHA, in the opener of a two-game series at 7:45. Student ticket prices are back down to $1 and there isn't a better entertainment buy on campus. The Badgers and Irish are running 1-2 in the WCHA scoring statistics and it shapes up as one hell of a series. 
Tomorrow at noon, coach Alex Wilson unveils his 22nd indoor track team against Miami of Ohio. Although the Irish have lost former NC'AA 600-yard champion, Rick Wohlhuter, through graduation, the return of 16lettermen and the addition of several gifted freshmen give promise of a successful indoor season. Heading the list of returnees are four-year standouts Elio Polselli and Mike McMannon. Polselli, the captain of the squad, is a fine shot-putter and McMannon is a versatile performer who can compete in the long and high jumps as well as the sprint events. Tom McMannon, Mike's younger brother, Rich Vallicelli, Don Creehan and fleet freshman Eric Penick also figure to be top point-getters. 
Frank McLaughlin's talented freshman basketball team hosts Southwestern Michigan at one o'clock tomorrow afternoon and it'd be well worth your while to hustle on over to the Convo to catch their act. Gary Brokaw, averaging 30-plus points per game, can do it all on the court and generally does. Dwight Clay is a first rate ballhandler and has a fine touch from the outside. Pete Crotty, a 6'8" New York boy is becoming more aggressive and looks better every outing. Hustling Bedford Bruno and Tom Varga round out the first five. This quintet knocked off the previously unbeaten Marquette yearlings last Monday night and are just rounding into form. 
The Irish wrestlers are in action tomorrow afternoon too, meeting archrival and perennial powerhouse John Carroll at 1:30 in the auxiliary gym. Notre Dame,led by a fantastic freshman heavyweight, Mike Fanning, who has recorded 11 consecutive pins this season, boasts a 7-1 record, while John Carroll is unbeaten in eight starts. 
UCLA's Bruins, NCAA basketball champions the past five seasons, return to the scene of their last defeat, the ACC, at 3:40 p.m. Fifty­eight point victors over the Irish a few weeks ago in Los Angeles, John Wooden's club hopes to duplicate that result before a sellout crowd and a national TV audience. 
Notre Dame's "B" hockey team, coached by Charlie Burroughs, will swing into action against the Glenwood Gulls at 4:30. Burroughs' charges, sporting a 6-0-1 record, beat the Gulls earlier this season, 9-4. 
"Lefty" Smith's icers will round out the athletic extravaganza, again taking on Wisconsin tomorrow night at 7:45. 
One man's opinion: It would seem obvious that Notre Dame's Athletic Board will pass the "Freshman Eligible" rule at its next meeting. Virtually every major conference in the country has decided in favor of the new legislation, including the Big Ten. It would seem that if the Irish are to hold their own in the recruiting wars, they'll have to decide to allow freshmen to compete on the varsity level in football and basketball. 
I think that most high school stars would prefer to attend a school where they could play four years at the varsity level, rather than just three. 
Playing a varsity sport as a freshman doesn't seem to present any major problem to most young athletes. "Lefty" Smith has always used freshmen on his hockey teams and the long, grueling schedule hasn't affected many of them adversely. 
Roger Valdiserri, Notre Dame's Sports Information Director, took a poll recently among 18 former Irish athletes who were allowed to compete in varsity sports as freshmen in 1951, during the Korean War. To a man, they agreed that playing varsity sports in their first year at college was beneficial and that they would have no concern about letting a son of their own play varsity sports at the age of 18. 
Everything points to the Athletic Board giving the O.K. to frosh football and basketball players next year. Now if "Digger" Phelps can only find a seven-foot high school senior somewhere ... 
Emily Post Dept.---With Saturday's game against UCLA slated for national television one has to wonder what uncouth behavior Notre Dame's "sports fans" will display. The perennial "bullshit" cheer made another reappearance Monday night as well as a new gimmick, tossing hot dogs at Marquette's AI McGuire and his players. It was most certainly a "bush" demonstration---hardly what one would expect from a presumably intelligent student body. 
Visitors on campus--Phil Witliff, holder of several Notre Dame hockey records, including career goal leadership, and two-time Irish ice captain was around campus this week and will watch the Irish­Wisconsin series. 
Jim Chones, Marquette's 6'11" All-American center, wandered into the Observer office last Sunday night and chatted for half an hour. He said he felt that the Warriors' toughest game before the NCAA tourney would come against New Mexico State. 
The big guy also commented on his views about leaving school to sign a pro contract. "I didn't receive any concrete offers at the price I wanted last season. This year, I'm gettirlg more publicity and I hope to make my big push this season." Nobody involved with Notre Dame basketball would be too upset is Chones passed up his last year of t'ligibility in favor of signing a pro contract. 

Page 12 THE OBSERVER. Friday, January 28, 1972 
Monday's Supreme Court firming the judgments of the not Justice Powell and Rehnquist ruling striking down welfare lower courts striking down the voted. Fr. Cour contended that residency laws in New York and laws. The decision was this might have given some in­Connecticut has drawn little unanimous. dication of their future decisions. 
Supreme Court 
comment from Notre Dame According to Fr. Cour, the Government Professor John government professors. court not only determined the Roos contended that the entire Rev. Raymond F. Cour, C.S.C., fate of this case but "shed light" situation was too complex todecision draws who has specialized in American on the way that other similar analyze in a brief statement. He constitutional law and civil cases might be handled. By did assert, however, that the liberties, found the result to be acting without hearings and decision seems to indicate tow what he had expected. He con­releasing no opinions, the court "basic, conflicting trends." One,little comment tended that it was not the decision "may be indicating its attitude" he felt, is towards itself that was most important in towards changing other past nationalization, and is seen in this case, but rather the way in liberal decisions. programs such as medicade and which it was decided and the Additionally, although the the other is towards localization, vote. The justices released a one decision was unanimous the involving programs such as 
by James Dixon 
sentence, unsigned order af-Court did not reveal whether or revenue sharing. 
1\caclemic flours: Monda_y through Friday 
Locals will depart simultaneously
indi,;,,tcc.l). 

Leave  M W F  
Notre  
Dame  A.M.  7:40  11:35  1:55  
7:50  11:40  2:25  
8:20  11:45  v  2:30  
8:30  11:50  2:35  
8:40  11:55  2:40  
9:10  12:00  PM  2:45  
9:15  12:10  2:50  
9:20  12:15  2:55  
9:25  12:20  3:00  
9:30  12:25  3:05  
9:35  12:30  3:25 v  
9:40  12:35  3:35  
9:45  12:40  3:45  
10:15  12:45  3:55  
10:20  12:50  4:05  
10:25  12:55  4:15  
10:30  1:00  4:25  
10:35  1:10  4:35  
10:40  1:15  4:45  
10:45  1:25  4:55  
10:50  1: 30  5:05  
10:55  1:35  5:15  
11:20  1:40  5:25  
11:25  1:45  5:35  
11: )0  1: so  5:45  
Leave  1'  T  
Notre  
Dame- 1\.M.  7:40  11:30  1:50  
7:50  11:40  1:55  
8:30  11:45  v  2:00  
8:40  11:50  2:10  
8:50  12:05  PM  2:15  
9:00  12:10  2:20  
9:35  12:15  3:05  
9:45  12:25  3:15  
9:50  12:30  3:25  
9:55  12:35  3:35  
10:05  12:45  3:45  
10:10  12:50  3:50  
10 i15  12:55  4:20  v  
10:25  1:05  4:30  
10:35  1:10  4:50  
11:05  1:15  5:05  
11:10  1:20  5:10  
lJ: 20  1:25  5:30  
11:2.5  1:30  5:40  
V  vi I I aqj ·  Bus  

Ne.uhaus speaks 
(7:40a.m. to 5:45p.m.) 
from each campus at the following times (except where 
Leave M W F 
~ 
Mary's A.M. 7 40 ll: 30 1:45 7 so 11:35 1:50 8 20 v 11:40 2:00 8 30 11:45 2:30 8 40 11:50 2:35 8 45 12:00 PM 2:40 9 10 12:05 2:45 9 15 12:10 2:50 9 20 12:15 2:55 9 25 12:20 3:05 9 30 12:25 3:35 9 35 12:30 3:45 9 40 12:35 3:55 9 45 12:40 4:05 
10 15 12:45 4:15 10 20 12:50 4:25 10 25 12:55 4:35 10 30 1:00 4:45 10 35 1:10 v 4:55 10 40 1:15 5:0" 10 45 1:20 5:15 10 50 1:25 5:25 10 55 1:35 5:35 11 20 1:40 5:45 11 25 
Leave T T 
~ 
Mary's A.M. 7 40 11:35 1:55 7 50 11:40 2:00 8 10 v 11:50 2:05 8 20 12:00 PM 2:10 8 40 12:05 2:25 8 so 12:15 2:30 9 00 12:20 2:55 9 35 12:25 3:05 9 40 12:35 3:15 9 45 12:40 3:25 9 55 12:45 3:35 10 00 12:55 3:45 10 05 1:00 3:50 
10 15 1:05 4:20 10 20 1:15 4:40 10 25 1:20 4: so 10 35 1:25 5:00 11 10 1:30 5:20 11 15 1:35 v 5:25 11 20 1:40 5:50 11 30 1:45 

(Continued from page 1) Department, Neuhaus answered question based on his failure to cite any specific ethical stance for Christians on the questions of conspiracy and moral duty to support of defy the government. Neuhaus 'held that there are "no definite" Christian positions, based on Scripture or tradition, that both sides of political questions today can be validly argued, citing as an example himself, an antiwar activist, and his brother, of the US Army, Special Forces, "Ethics within the Church are conflicting and arguable," he said, "none of us have the ability to say which is The Christian Ethic." "FiijjER~ F>J\.Ri<:~ .......)..........·. ··~ .~ MIIHAWAICA AVI. AT ~OTH. NOW SHOWING ''DOCTOR ZHIVAGO"  PROOF OF AGE HIS SPECIALITY WAS SEXOLOGY HIS PATIENTS WERE NYMPHS HIS HOSPITAL WAS THE ST IN THE WORLD  OPEN  
Fri; Sat; Sun At 1:30 & 7:45  
Week Days At 7:45  

Cultural Arts Commission's Cinema '72 presents 
DESTROY, SHE SAID 
Fri. &Sat. Jan. 28 &29 
7:00 & 9:00 pm Engineering Auditorium 

Cinema '72 Admission $1.00 
patrons free 
CLASSIFIED ADS 

WANTED  FOR SALE  
POETRY WANTED for An.  SONY TC.252D reel-to-reel tape  
thology. IncIude stamped en.  deck. PERFECT condition,  
velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E.  virtually brand new. 283-8223.  
Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles,  
California, 90021.  '65 Pontiac Catalina, 383-V8,  
automatic, power steering, radio,  
Please, would anyone like to  inspected. Best offer. Call 233­ 
EXCHANGE STAMPS with:  8855 after 5 pm.  
Ross N. Dean, 15 Cleary Street,  
Lower Hutt, NEW ZEALAND.  Parts and Accessories for Im­ 
ported cars. Foreign Car Parts  
STUDENTS WANTED for small  Co. 215 Dixieway North  
technical school. Curriculum  (Roseland) 272-7187.  
ECPD accredited. Major in 9  
fields of drafting, 2 fields of Civil  All recordings (ever done) by:  
and Electronics. A.S. Degree.  Peter, Paul & Mary, Beatles,  
Industry recruits on our campus.  Stones, Dylan, Baez. New copies.  
Transfers accepted February 14th  
through 21st. Institute of Drafting  FOR SALE Big 9 cubic foot  
and Technology, Morrison,  refrigerator Good Condition. Call  
Illinois, 61270.  1578.  
Wanted: A good home for a  '65 VW, Excllnt condition, with  
pedigreed cocker spaniel. Call  extras, $550 or offer. 234-5889.  
6818 anytime.  
NOTICES  
PERSONALS  
OVERSEAS JOBS FOR  
Hhhhhhhh, Hhhhhhhh, Hhhhhhhh  STUDENTS Australia, Europe, S.  
Hhhhhhhh, Hhhhhhhh, Hhhhhhhh  America, Africa, Etc. All  
A Hhh, AN OBSCENE  professions and occupations, $700  
CLASSIFIED AD BROUGHT TO  to $3,000 monthly. Expenses paid,  
YOU BY BELL SYSTEM  overtime, sightseeing. Free in·  
formation Write, Jobs Overseas,  
And What About Hot Chili?  Dept. F2, Box 15071, San Diego,  
It is Groovy, After A Movie, Or  CA 92115.  
For A While.  
Need typing done??? Will do  
Dear Bobsy Twins,  typing for reasonable rates and on  
Don't worry Shannon will  short notice don't waste time  
retrieve your gold!  pecking away -Call Chip at 8256.  
The golden.retriever  
NOT AVAILABLE NEW? TRY  
Who The Hell Is Shannon?  US FOR A RECYCLED BOOK.  
X (The Phantom)  PANDORA'S BOOKS. NOON­ 
MIDNIGHT. 233-2342.  
Happy Birthday Liz  
Have fun this semester and don't  
worry.  Words 1da 2da 3da 4da 5da  
BUM  1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55  
11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40  
If you're a fun guy,  16·20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95  
Looking for some fun, fun, fun,  21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45  
then call "The Masher" 4942.  26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45  
31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15  
Mike and Don:  36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75  
Beware of the slings and arrows  41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20  
of outrageous fortune.  46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95  
Women's Lib!  





