
On The Inside 
Footba II concessions cutback ... page 2 
Hot dog day ... page 6 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Thursday, October S, 1972

Vol. VII No. 20 

SMC Administration must approve 
Assembly votes open lobbies 
Many students ignore alarm 

Fire damages Seventh floor of Grace Hall 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 

A formal proposal for 24-hour open lobbies was unanimously approved by St. Mary's Student Assembly at their meeting last night. 
The proposal, drafted by Hall Life Com­missioner, Mitzi Tracy, the Hall Presidents, and Student Body Vice President Sue Welte, calls for specified lobby areas in each of the four residence halls to be open to visitors 24 hours a day in an effort to demonstrate "responsibility and hospitality" on the part of the students " .. .in all phases of living on campus, including the residence hall lobby." 
An attached appendix outlined possible security measures to be implemented along with the proposal. Aside from the procedures already in operation for locking exterior acesses to the halls, additional internal measures would be taken. 
Parietal proposal planned 
Welte added that plans are underway for a parietal proposal to be submitted at the January meeting of the Board. "We feel that January would be the best time to submit a com­prehensive, well-researched plan," Welte said, "and we intend to solicit full cooperation from all segments of the community for getting it drawn uo." 
Welte hopes that the open lobby proposal would go into effect immediately upon approval, but this remains at the discretion of the Board. 
New security measures 

The security measures involve separation of lounge and parlor areas from residential areas. 
The large double doors at the entrance to the main first floor hallway in LeMans would be closed at dorm closing, with access beyond these doors restricted to LeMans residents only. In Holy Cross, the main lobby area and parlors would be open to visitors, with access to the residential area through the sign-in desk only. The McCandless visitors' area would remain the 

Welte: "There's no doubt in my mind that it will be passed all the way up." 
· "arne. Visitors in Regina would be restricted to the immediate lobby area excluding the north and south lounges since there are no doors to limit entrance to the dormitory area. 
The appendix suggests the PoSsibility of ad­ding a door to the South lounge hallway to end the entertainment area, but this is subject to approval of the Holy Cross sisters as the building belongs to them and not the college. 
Full text of proposal for open lobbies 
Whereas, the lobbies of residence halls are used as a common meeting area between residents and visitors, and, 
Whereas, the residence halls are committed to the principle of making the residence halls a home on campus for the students, and, 
Whereas, under the new structure of campus security, all residence halls are attended by a Night Hall Director and by Security on the campus grounds itself, and, 
Whereas, those students with self-responsible hours are permitted to leave the residence halls after dorm closing, and, 
Whereas, even during the winter months, visitors are not permitted to enter the residence halls after closing, 
We, the members of the student body and student government, propose that the lobby areas of the residence halls be open 24 hours to permit visitors to enter and-or be entertained by the residents of each hall, especially during inclement weather. 
As stated in the Residence Hall Manual, each resident must comply with the campus sign-in­
"There's no doubt in my mind that it will be passed all the way up," SBVP Sue Welte declared last night. In other business, the Student Assembly voted to appropriate $2.00 per student to the Obst>rvt>r for the service of providing the papers to the student body. These funds would come from the $10.00 student ac­tivities fee which is included on every student's bill. Previously, a separate, direct billing procedure had been followed. 
The Assembly members were also asked to make their constituents aware of the positions open on the many task forces and planning committees established for the review of the college, and to urge them to participate. 
Student Center ·party 

Student Body President Jean Seymour, who chairs the Assembly, concluded with a projec­tion that the new student center in Regina would have its grand opening on Tuesday, October 31, with a Halloween costume party. Tours of the facilities will be conducted by student govern­ment, and the party will feature games and a live band. 
sign-out policy. Those students with hours must be in the dorm by dorm closing hours of 12 a.m. Sunday-Thursday; 2 a.m., Friday and Saturday. They may entertain visitors in the lobby after dorm hours, although they will not be permitted 
to leave the hall after said hours. 
Students with self-responsible hours are permitted to receive their visitors in the lobby area after dorm closing, following the usual campus sign-in-sign-out procedure in their file and on the Night Hall Director's yellow sheet. Violations of the usual sign-in-sign-out policy will be subject to sanction by the Student Relations Board. Security will be maintained as usual by the Night Hall Director in each residence hall and by campus security. Upon leaving the residence hall after official dorm closing hours, the student with self-responsible hours must present her ID to the Night Hall Director. 
The residence halls as our homes, should extend their hospitality and courtesy as men­tioned above. We, as students, feel that responsibility and hospitality can and should be contained in all phases of living on campus, including the residence hall lobby. 

by David Rust The University of Notre Dame and South Bend Municipal firemen extinguished a blaze on the seventh floor inter-tower section of Grace Hall yesterday. There were no injuries reported. 
The fire broke out at ap­proximately I: 30 p.m. in a laundry­utility cart, apparently the· result of an ashtray emptied into a waste container on the cart while it sat directly in front of the elevators. 
Firemen immediately responded to the call, the Notre Dame fire engine arriving two minutes after 
the  siren,  and  four  South  Bend  
vehicles later.  
By  1:50  the  fire  was  under  

control. Damage caused by the flames, which witnesses described as rising ten feet into the air, in­
cluded total destruction to all but the metal frame of the cart, a badly burned and scorched wall 
and bulletin board, and a carpet burned through in several places. 
Grace Assistant Rector Fr. Bernie Clark was distressed at hall residents' reaction to the alarm. Though most of the hall's ap-

Fr. Whelan. Grace rector 
proximately 550 dormers were at classes, while a crowd of fifty looked on, seemingly unconcerned students stared down from Grace's sixth, seventh and eighth story windows, ignoring the alarm. 
Fr. Clark claims many of the onlookers held misconceptions of the way fire inflicts fatalities. "I ran past the showers warning people to get out," Fr. Clark says. "One young man was taking a shower and said he figured that the flames of the fire couldn't hurt him through the water. 

"What he doesn't realize " laments Fr. Clark, "is that flam~s don't cause the deaths ... it's the smoke that kills." And in a cen­trally air-controlled building such as Grace, he says, the danger is greatly magnified. 
Both he and seventh floor Resident Assistant Steve Lancey who stayed behind to direct the evacuation agreed that the fire alarm noise-duration should be longer that its present two minutes. 
''That doesn't give everyone enough time to hear it," or to understand that it is a fire alarm and that they should clear the building, say both Fr. Clark and Lancey. 
Lancey, later surveying the • damage on his floor, reported that the smoke was so thick he couldn-t get from one tower to the other, nor to the central staircase, without being asphyxi~ted, and throughout the afternoon Grace's centrally­conditioned air stank of smoke, underlying his and Fr. Clark's concern about residents' reaction to the fire's danger. 
Fire erupted in a laundry utility cart on the seventh floor of Grace Hall. (arrow) Fire and smoke damaged the walls and floors of the elevator lobby on that floor. 


Take a free Speed Reading Lesson on Evelyn Wood 
the observer Thursday, October 5, 1972
2 

warld briefs 
<c> 1972 New York Times 
Overcompetition reason for concessions cutback 
by Connie Griewe Observer Staff Reporter 
Dr. Robert Ackerman, Director of Student Activites, cited over­competition and physical ap­pearance as reasons for the reorganization of football Saturday concession stands. 
In previous years, each hall was guaranteed two stands for each home game with other campus organizations permitted only two home games. Under the new organization, halls are included in campus organizations and must comply to the "two-game" quota. 

This  costs  each  hall  three  
weekends in the  concession  
business.  

Less stands, more profit 

Ackerman said he felt that the competition from 35 organizations each running stands would be too 
for anyone to make a profit. each hall allotted two games, 

Jeselnick: every dorm should have 
the chance. fifteen organizations will be represented each week. This will give more business to each con­cession and in the long run yeild more profit, Ackerman said.
f The physical appearance made 
on campus by a large number of

r 
stands also influenced the decision to decrease the number of con­cessions. 
"Thirty-five stands on the main quad made it look like a market place," stated Ackerman. "A visitor should be able to come and appreciate the campus without having to trample over that many hot doe: stands." 
Steve Jeselnick, executive coordinator of the Hall Presidents Council feels that every dorm should have the opportunity to have a stand in front of their dorm 



FREE! 
2nd Annual Hot Dog Day Sponsored By The Student Services Commission Free hot dogs from 11 :30 to 2:00, 
Thurs, Oct. 5th, in front of the Golden Dome. 

Washington-The Senate served notice that it would block passage of the proposed Soviet-American trade agreement if Moscow does not remove the expensive exit fee it now imposes on Jews and others seeking to emigrate to Israel and elsewhere. Seventy-one senators introduced an amendment that would bar key provisions of the traty which is reportedly near completion. ' 
Washington-Led by the United States and Soviet Union, scientific academies of a dozen nations set up a "think tank" to seek solutions of problems created by industrial societies. The International In­stitute of Applied Systems Analysis, as it will be known, will be based in Austria. It will study problems such as pollution control urban growth, public health and over population. ' 
New York-Sen. George McGovern, at a Liberal Party dinner here, termed the Nixon Administration "the trickiest, the most deceitful administration in our entire national history," 
Washington-President Nixon and his top political advisers met at Camp David to decide how to meet Democratic charges that the President is "hiding" from the voters. The President, who has made only three campaign appearances since his nomination, is expected to step up the pace. Meanwhile, his campaign director accused Senator McGovern of engaging is "scurrilous name-calling and character assassination." 
E Rapid City, S.D.-Vice President Agnew brought the Republican campaign to Senator McGovern's home state of South Dakota and accused the Democratic nominee of using smear and innuendo in his pursuit of the Presidency. Agnew then called McGovern "very popular in certain segments of North Vietnamese society" because of 
his "philosophy of defeat." 

every weekend. His comment on the "eye-sore" created by the stands was that on the contrary "the stands and bands that each dorm supported provided an added attraction to the entire football weekend." 
Halls' loss justified According to Ackerman, "It was not fair to let residential halls create a monopoly" on this fund raising activity. He cited other campus organization s such as the Glee Club dependent almost completely upon this type of fund raising activity. He said that if halls used prudent measure and control, they would have other methods such as food sales withwhich to fill their treasuries. 
The director noted that in many cases food sales and concessions run under the guise of university organizations are in fact the source of income to particular in­dividuals. 
"The selling of goods in pure form is a good fun-raising activity but the halls will not exert control over who controls the funds." Ackerman then continued to state that he would eventually like to get together with SLC and devise a specific policy covering the distribution of profits in fund raising by university organizations. 
Hall presidents react 

Jeselnick feels the university was short-sighted in its decision to reorganize concessions without the consultation of HPC. "It is not a workable solution without hall presidents of HPC; it was given to us with little or no choice" Jeselnick stated. 
Jeselnick said the hall presidents feel that the entire issue should be reconsidered "It is not too late to · reconsider changes in something I feel is wrong," closed Jeselnick. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
In just one exciting Speed Reading Leuon you too can increase your reading and study speed (with no loss In comprehen­sion) 50 to 100%-FREE. At the Free Speed Reading Lesson you will learn how the Evelyn Wood course handles difficult text book material. How it Improves memory and concentration. And, how it 
'"makes reading a pleasure Instead of a chore. Attend a Free Speed Reading Les­son. It could change your life too! 
Over 500,000 graduates including 
Dean Amatead, University of Texali 
Rear Admiral Ashworth 
"Birch Bayh, U.S. Congress McGeorgea Bundy, JFK Cabinet Clark Clifford, LBJ Cabinet Superintendant Estes, St. Louis Dean Gates, Beaver College John Glenn, Astronaut 

S. 1. Hayakawa, San Francisco State Chariton Haston Mrs. Jacob Javltts Harman Jonas, U.S. District Judge Edward Kennedy, U.S. Congress Burt Lancaster George McGovern, U.S. Congress Marshall Mcluhan Dr. Frank Moya, Miami University William Proxmlra, U.S. Congress . Dr. Margaret Ratz, Principia College George Segal Judge Juanita Kldd Stout Ben Wllllnghan, Genesco President 
Success Warranty! 

98% success! Anyone who falls to Improve at least 3 times receives a full tuition refund! 
an campu• laday 
12:30 meeting,gsu,127 nieuwland. 
1:15 -lecture, donald san­tarelli, crime and the federal government, 109 Wenninger­kirsch building. 
3:30 -film, romance and reality: high gothic world .of the 13th and 14th centuries, engineering auditorium. 



Lifetime Membership 

If you want further improvement in your speed of reading, study, comprehension, and recall skill you can, as a Reading Dynamics graduate, repeat the course at any time. 
.-----Free Speed Reading Lessons-----. 



TODAY 6 & Bpm 
Center for Continuing Education Notre Dame 
Avenue 

TODAY FINAL DAY LAST CHANCE 

Thursday, October 5, 1972 the observer 

Charitabl$ con1ril:xttions suspect 
Hesburgh's letter expresses serious concern 
by Jim Ferry 
Observer Staff Reporter 

University President Father Theodore M. Hesburgh in a letter addressed to the members of the Board of Trustees, expressed the "serious concern" of the University administration, as well as educators of all colleges and universities throughout the country, over the matter. of charitable contribution deduct10n. When the 93rd Congress con­venes in January, it will be drawing up bills to reform t~x laws. Such bills, Hesburgh satd, are a serious threat to the practice 
of charitable contribution 
deduction, which has been a major 
means for raising money for the 


University for ouite a while. 
In his letter, Hesburgh stated, "We all know that tax benefits or .advantages are not the primary motivation for giving, particularly to Notre Dame, but they certainly are an important consideration." 
Hesburgh agrees with Congress attempting to cover up loopholes, some of which he termed "silly!" but there is one tax law he sees as beneficial. That is the law which permits any person who wishes to contribute money to culture, 


SenatorKennedy to Speak Friday 
by Greg Rowinski 

Senator Edward MooreKennedy will speak in Stepan Center Friday morning. Neither the contents of the speech or its theme is known within Citizens for Brademas' headquarters. Congressman Brademas will introduce the Massachusetts legislator. 
Nt•wswt>t>k hailed the youngest of the Kennedy brothers as "a dream candidate for Veep". But Senator KPnnedy turned down the offer, 
Campus News 

making it clear that he had no intentions of running for national office in 1972. 
SPnator Kennedy has already appeared with Presidential hopeful Senator George McGovern on the campaign. trail, including stops in Cleveland, Detroit and Chicago. His reception has been so great that one Philadelphia paper ·actually gave the non-candidate 
top billing in its headline. 

Security will be "very tight", according to Mr. William Hojnacki 
·who is co-ordinatng the senator's visit. Senator Kennedy will break­fast at the Indiana Club at 7:45 on 
1Friday. He will arrive at Stepan Center between 9:30 and 10:00, and speak for approximately a half­hour. 
From Stepan Kennedy will proceed to Elkhart Airport for ·an 
II :00 appearance, and then fly to Fort Wayne. 


Former Bookstore director dies 
Brother Meinrad Secard, C.S.C., Soul Travel is described as the 62, manager of the Notre Dame's art of shifting one's attention away bookstore from 1933 to 1947 , died from the material worlds into the late Monday Oct. 2, in worlds of ture beingness beyond 
Providence Hospital, Portland, Ore., where he had been a patient the last few months. He had been serving as an accountant for the Holy Cross Providence in Portland before his illness. 
Brother Secard was born Oct. 19, 
\909, in Merrill, Wis. and entered 
the Holy Cross Novitiate at 
Watertown, Wis. Feb. I, 1932. He 
made his final profession of vows 
at Notre Dame August 16, 1936. 
He served as an accountant or 
bookstore manager at Holy Cross 
College, Washington, D.C., in 1947­
1948 at 1the University of Portland 
in '1948-1949, at Columbia 
Preparatory School, Portland, in 
1949-:1950. at Holy Cross College in 
\950-1951, and at the University of 
Portland from 1951-1964. 
He is survived by one sister, 
Mrs. T. Buck, Van Nuys, Cal. 
Funeral services are planned at 
the University of Portland Wed­

nesday afternoon. The body will be 
returned to Notre Dame for a wake 
service, funeral mass and burial at 
a time to be announced later. 

Women and Politics 

The League of Women Voters is presenting a panel discussion entitled "Women and Politics" Monday, October 9, at I p.m. The panel and discussion headed by Nancy Kommers, will be held in the meeting room below the St. ~ Mary's dining hall. 
The League is extending a special invitation to all women on either campus to attend. They are particularly interested in any 18 year old female voter wishing to become more aware of her responsibilities as a better cit~zen. 
The national, non-partisan 
league is involved with registering 
votes and open houses for can­
didates. 

ECKANKAR 

An introductory lecture on 
ECKANKAR, "the Ancient 

Science of Soul Travel" will be 
held at 2 p.m. , Sun., Oct. 8 in the 
Memorial Library Auditorium. 

Guest speakers will be Dr. Steve 
Brown and Pat Henderson, 
initiates in ECKANKAR. There 
will be a panel to answer questions 
from the audience. 

energy, matter, time and space. Through the spiritual exercises of ECK and the inner guidance of the living ECK Master, one proves through his own experiences, existence beyond the physical body and begins his journey back to 
Sugmad, the source from whence he came. This breaks his cycle of karma and reincarnation and finally leads him into the God­
Realized state. 



Chess results 
Calll715 or stop by 



the Observer office 
for results of the 
chess tournament 
Kountz to Speak 
Frederick J. Kountz will be the second speaker participating in "The American Scene: A Cultural SPries", hosted by Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame. 
Mr. Kountz is associated with Niles College of Loyola University. 
He is President of the lay faculty and a member of the executive board of that college. 
Mr. Koutz will speak on "A Variety of God Inclinations in Secula·r Literature" at 7:30p.m. on Wednesday. October 4, 1972, in Carroll Hall. Madeleva Memorial, Saint Mary's College.Notre Dame Indiana. 
The public is invited to attend. 



PROMENADE 
Eight piece jazz...rock group 
St. Nary's Snack Shop 9p.m. -1a.m. Friday, Oct. 6 Admission .2 5 
religion, health or education, to receive some in return by allowing him to decut a certain amount from his personal income tax. 
The President also stated that this was the only country on earth that maintained a private education system, as well as a public education ~ystem, and that 3 'million people presently attend these private institutions. He feels that if charitable contribution deduction were repealed, the University would be in "big trouble." Thus he has urged the members of the Board of Trustees to follow legislative developments carefully and to consider com­municating their views to their Congressmen and Senators. 
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LANSING Cordially Invites You to A PRE-GAME ALUMNI RECEPTION Friday evening, October 6, 1972 
9:00 p.m. -1:00 a.m. THE PRETZEL BELL RESTAURANT 1020 Trowbridge Road 
East Lansing, Michigan (Adjacent to the M,S.U. campus 
FeaturingGood Company Appearances by ND officials 
The "old school songs" and specialLive Music The Notre Dame cheerleaders 
Cash bars 
Admission price is $1.00 per person. Tickets will be sold at the door. 

The Notre Dame Academic Commission invites you to a Democratic 

PUBLIC RALLY 
on 
Friday, October 6 9:30a.m. 

Stepan Center, University of Notre Dame 
Featured speaker 
Senator TED KENNEDY 
ptizens for Brademas Committee, jerome B. Kearns, Chmn. 
STUDENT SPECIAL 
l 

_,
,, .L 
THE HMAMES 
J 

NOTRE DAME 
PAPER MATE $1.95 PEN 
T. d f G tt• v H . .:PAPER8MATE 

1r e o e 1ng ' our a1r 
,, 1~rowE~I~IPOirNT 



Wiped-Out? 
Is it sick? 
Is It Damaged? 
Is It Tangled? 
Does It Need 

"Let Sue style your hair." 





We solve long hair problems! Uhe WinJjammer 

HAIR STYLING FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN & BOYS 
1637 Lincoln Way W. Phone 232-6622 All Services By Appointmen 
PAPER MATE 
• POWERPOINT REFill ·WRITES AT ANY ANGLE 
EVEN UPSIDE DOWN t 
• 
CHOICE OF SLIM OR REGULAR GRIP 

• 
CHROME CAP. COLORFUL PLAST1~ BARREL 

• 
RETRACTABLE. REFillABLE 

• 
I~EW SCHOOL ALMANAC OFFER 


BOOKST~ 
PAPER MATE 98' PEN 

STUDENT 
!J,pwJ. 
PAPER~;MATE 
PAPER~;MATE 
• 
OUTSmS All OTHEP SI.OO BALL PENS COMBIMO 

• 
CHOICE OF FIVE BARREL COLORS 

• 
CHROME TRIM 

• 
RETRACTABLE. REFILLABLE 

• 
NEW SCHOOL ALMANAC PFFfH 


News: 283-1715 Editori;al: 213-8661 Business: 283-7471 





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, 
on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the 
individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comn,ent. 
Thursday, October 5, 1972 


COUP's Challenge 
"to determine what are the most essential and indispensable elements of our total mission, the most essential as contrasted with that which might have seemed -desirable under other cir­cumstances." 
-charge to the Committee on University Priorities, Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh 
The success of any committee charged with finding the pulse of Notre Dame and translating that pulse into a concrete direction for the future requires a community confidence in the mem­bership of the committee. It requires above all that the people of Notre Dame who provide input to the final report can feel that the body is not stacked against them. 

r The question is one of public con­fidence, broadly defined. The problem is that the Committee on University Priorities (COUP) is beginning its work with three critical factors working to undermine the public confidence. 
Three Factors· 
I. There are no women on the com­mittee. This point is probably the group's most serious deficiency. It is curious that 12 men could expect a woman reporting

r to COUP to feel accepted as a basic part 
r 
I 
, of the Notre Dame community when, in the first year of formal co-education, they have been excluded from the core of people asked to examine "the most important problem facing the university in the years immediately ahead." 
~ 
II. In spite of disclaimers to the effect that the relative positions of faculty members during last spring's con­troversy over the direction of Notre r Dame were not apparent until this r newspaper mentioned them, the absence representation for faculty members who ~ are in substantial agreement with the signers of "The Future at Notre Dame" 
r 
' cannot possibly be taken as a sign that 
~ 
the committee is open to their input. Once again, vital concern for public confidence in the group was undermined by either an oversight or, more seriously, a deliberate om mission. 
III. Undergraduate students, the university's largest single resource, are sorely under-represented. This is more than just a political point. The committee is faced with a tremendous workload which must be met by an already heavily burdened academic and administrative team. If COUP is forced to curtail the frequency of its meetings because sub­committee work is slow in completion, public confidence will suffer again. The conscientiously researched input of students is valuable in more places than the classroom. 
'I:wo Possibilities 
The committee can take one (or both) of two tracts to repair the damage done to public confidence. First, it could expand membership. Second, in the organizational meeting on Friday the committee could make a firm decision to hold many public sessions. 
Both of these two moves would improve COUP's waning public image. In par­ticular, the addition of a woman to the committee proper would correct what is probably the most crucial of the over­sights, Such an action would show that the committee was receptive to public input from the very beginning. 
Frequent open sessions would reduce the fear among faculty and students that the committee is stacked. Certainly the very nature of the group's investigation dictates that it should do everything in its power to make the input and deliberations available for public scrutiny. 
It's unfortunate that a committee as promising as COUP should begin its work under circumstances of stress rather than community ambition. Hopefully, this problem will be handled post haste. 
John Abowd 

Dut DnThe Weekend 

Buried somewhere deep in the morass of tailgaters, cheerleaders, alumni, parents and armchair quarterbacks, that so fully dominate Notre Dame Football weekends, lies the meek and unknown freshman from Allegany, New York, whose parents and girlfriend assume that he,as a Notre Dame student, can readily purchase any number of football tickets. 
Consider the situation of this unfortunate individual. Lost in the 
largest congregation of people he has everseen,he finds himself in 
jeopardy of losing not only his parental support, but also the only 
girl he has ever loved, indeed the only girl in Allegany, if he cannot 
come up with three tickets. 
So he puts up signs. He even runs an ad. Following the lead of other prospective purchasers, he offers to "pay your price." And he is not surprised when he gets results. 
Yes, results. "50 bucks a pair;" "I'll let ya steal four of 'em for a hundred and a quarter." "I have three tickets, none together. They're yours for 20 apiece." 
He looks upon his fellow students for encouragment. "These aren't other students that are doing this to me, are they?" Sad, but true. He's just one of the many suckers ripped-off every home game. Not by the Bookstore, Gilbert's, the University, or any other "establishment" members, but by his fellow students who will then join him in screaming about over-priced textbooks. 
This truly is a difficult phenomenon to explain. A "sellout" at Notre Dame is not the same as anywhere else. All the word "sellout" means here is thctt all of the tickets have been purchased for their face value (a price which is $1.00 more than most NCAA schools l. Ifone is desirous of a ticket to a "sellout" he must pay a price which is subject to the whim of the seller. The disgusting aspect of this is that it is students making most of the profits from other students. 
I propose a change. Instead of setting a value on football tickets the University should follow the example of President Nixon with regard to the price of gold. Tickets should be allowed to "float freely" on the open market and establish their own prices. In this manner, ticket speculators (otherwise known as scalpers) could have a field day. 
Imagine the fun! When the Football polls came out on Tuesday night the market would begin to fluctuate. Students would congregate around their radios to hear Candy Kelly of WSND with the latest rrport: "Purdue tickets are up 6 points today, while Missouri remained even. In a day of heavy trading the biggest gainer was T.C.U., which incidentally is Parent's Weekend, picking up a huge 13 and a half points. This places T.C.U. tickets above the 25 point mark. Today's big loser was Miami, which pummelled 4 points. This is due, primarily, to the predicted in­clement weather for that game." 
Fortunes could be won and lost. Students would maul each other 
for copies of The Observer to get the latest quotations. The 
financial page would surpass the sports page in popularity. 
Surely, we are presently not even appromimating the money making potential of such a plan. It would be in the best interests of all concerned if the University changed over as soon as possible. 
Should they choose to ignore this suggestion, then too few students are going to continue to reap the profits of this great enterprise. And there is always the remote possibility that once, just once, every student on this campus would simply refuse to pay more than$8.00 for a football ticket. What incredible chaos would follow as the scalpers would be forced to take a big loss. 
Because of my sympathy for these profiteers, I don't feel that I can rightfully encourage any student to participate in a full-scale boycott of ticketscalpers for the Missouri game on October 21. The money these students make is legitimate and I would cer­tainly hate to see every single one of them chewing on 4 or more tickets while I went out to dinner on the money I had saved. 
__............IIIIIIIIIDDIDIUIIIIIIIDIIIMIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIRIID_____.IIUHIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIEII '11111111. 1.111111·1-IIIIIIIUIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIWIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
! ~ 
Letters ...

r 
Editor: 

In the Observer issue of Sep­tember 26, in an article regarding r the recent SLC electees, Mr. Richard Toland, Observer Staff
r 
Reporter writes, "Jim Hunt

r 
District One representative

~ 
r pointed to the alteration of this , semester's calendar as the clearest example of what the SLC is capable of when it has student support." We would like to set the record straight by informing the student body that the alteration of the calendar was accomplished without the support of the SLC or any other political body on cam­pus. It resulted solely from the efforts of a small group of then Badin Hall freshmen with outside help from Paul Dziedzic and Dave Koppana, after Student Govern­ment's totally apathetic response to a request for assistance. The students have shown their desire and ability to institute change; itis fioped that the newly elected SLC members will be equally sue­cessful in future endeavors. 
... campus politics 
John Gerspach Robert McManus Michael Davis 
J.C. Seth 
Editor: 
As a participant -the observer of the campus situation these days, Jim Schneid 
------------~~~--IBIIIIIHIRIIIIIIIIIHIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIUIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIDIHIIIIIIIIUIIIIHIIIIII"'".D"II 11111HIIIIIM·IIIII·---·--III..HIIIII"•WIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUHIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 

the observer 

Editorial Staff
Dear Phred: 

';lu know, I dcn't think I've been f'ollowing Too bod. aboyt l~inQ all 
Editor-in-chief: John Abowd
those h!rttks. But jf you 
Jts too late. £or you to 

Executive Editor: Don Ruane
the "War st~ndings 
come on over to our side.
think the VC. a~ dis­
l"m encJC<Sjng .some 

News Editor: Jerry Lutkus
.A £ree. 50Ci.ty really is
in the paper.s litt:ly. 
organi=l., you -'>bould S!t: 
literature. on 

Managing Editor: Joe Abell
America ..eems to he the Democrats. They're. 
best ana. r tlrink if 
democrl!cy. 

Sf. Mary's' Editor: Maria Gallagher 
~u Xnew the real struy
on top again ~r t~. 
ln worse sha~ than you. 

Featur~s Editor: Rod Braye 
you'd. <!BN.e.. 

Editorial Editor: Fred GiuffriGta Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Ann Therese Darin Special Projects: Anthony Abowd Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis 
Business Staff Business Manager: Don Thornton Advertising Manager: Joe Butler Subscriptions Manager: Art Ferranti 
it seems to me that the student groups have become too in­dividualistic. Bob Kersten has been overly caustic towards the 
Observer  and  other  volunteer  
organizations.  The  Observer  
retorts  with  a  series  of  semi­ 
derogatory articles.  

As long as I've .been at Notre Dame some individual or group has been envious of another's involvement in campus life. 
Why? 

ISSUE STAFF: 
Nite Editor: Anthony Abowd 
Ass't Nite Editors: Art Esposito, george lund 
Design: Nic Catrambone, Dianne 
Chermside,  Tjm  Neuville,  Sue  
Prendergast, Lynn DiGiulio  
Pictures:  Jerome  
Sports Nite Editor: Vic  Dorr  
Nite Controller:  Steve Roper  
Typists:  Bullet,  Barb  Norcross,  Tom  
Modglin  

----~-~------------~~--------. 
.. 

Thursday, October 5, 1972 
the observer 

5 
new black horizons 





--nP.w scholastic frontier society 
Philosophy of the Society of Ujarnaa · well as in respect of university activities Concerning membership: 
-that pertain to Black student affairs. Voting membership shall be awarded toThe society of Ujamaa is an organization The university has vested formal all eligible indiduals who actively par-on the campus of Notre Dame attempting to 
. supervision of the Center on the Black ticipate in the program of the Society anddeal with specific problems. These 
Student Afairs Committee; and this Com-who have made a financial contributionproblems are many but our underlying mittee exercises its role in respect of the toward defraying the operating expenses ofstruggle in the Society is one of Familyhood. 
Center by its liaison with a student com-the Society. The executives of the SocietyIt simply means that the Society recognizes 
mittee that plans, coordinates, and shall be selected only those members of thethe commonality of certain problems . executes the programs that the Center of-Society who have actively particpated in the students are faced with and from that we 
"':· fers. continuing program of the Society; and are looking for an avenue of com­Suggestions should be made to this when that history of active participation ismunication. 
committee of students which is currently ·challenged, the incumbent Steering Com­For those people that are not familiar with 
chaired by an undergraduate senior, Ray mittee in consulation with the Recorder'sthe Society of Ujamaa, it could be because Turner. evidence shall adjudicate the matter.
its history is young. The Society of Ujamaa 

I H 11111111111111111111111 IIIII JIIIJIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIHHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHHIIIHHfflfl
began in January of 1972 after restructuring the defunct Afro-American Society. One problem of the former Afro-American Society was in not recognizing the fact of other organizations on campus. You could mr. say that the Afro-American Society was operating in an isolated vacuum and from rick mitz that premise, no progress was made. This I think I went through the change of life She grabbed my celery and continued. meant its slow destruction. one night last week. It seems I had barely "Well, don't think she couldn't have been a 
Understand that the Society of Ujamaa's and discussion of the content of issues that out-reached puberty when I went to bed a married lady a hundred times over and then members are black. This may seem as a lend themselves to increasing the capacity swinging single and awakened the next some. And I'know what you're thinking­contradiction to unity itself if there is an all of black people to responsibly contribute to morning a confirmed bachelor. that it's because of Grandma Stacker's black organization on campus. For those I noticed the first symptom when I went antique and heavily insured brooch." She
the socio-.political environment that they
who think so, we say for you to recognize the share. back to my home town for a visit. My took a bite, "Not true. So consider yourself type of dehumanization black people have Mother and I were out shopping for a bun lucky."
To focus its activities around the
experienced for centuries. And if you warmer when we ran into a neighbor lady "Lucky'?"
operation of the Black Cultural Center.
empathize with those experiences, you can friend who's known me all my life. "That she's saving herself for you."
Projects: To provide a forum in which 
see that in order to regain womanhood or "Ciel," the blonde lady hollered to my "I' didn't know she was."
those who are pursuing formal studies at the 
manhood a people must begin to define for Mother across appliances. "Is this little "She doesn't either. But the lady who does
University can broaden their learning op­
themselves who they are and will be. No portunities through academic discussion Rickie?" my feet, who also dabbles in tea leaves, told person can crawl into their mind and define "Rick, you know Mrs. Plumb, don't you'?" me that she saw Marjorie's star ascending
· with members of the community who share 
them. This does not negate the fact that "Of course, I'd kno him anywhere," she over your Toyota. Which reminds me," she
a high regard for an academic forum, but
there can still be a working relationship cackled and continued as if I weren't there. said, fumbling around in her purse, "did I 
who may not be formal members of the 
between two people. In no way do we adhere "Tell me, how is the boy?" ever show you the professional photos we
Notre Dame University Community. 
to black separation. But what is important "As well as can be expected." had taken of Marjorie after we had her.nose 
The forum would further provide a cross 
is pride in our heritage. This is the task of "Is he healthy and productive'?" fixed ... '?"
disciplinary academic in which Black 
the Society of Ujamaa, to find black men "Considering," my Mother said. The next incident occurred when I was
Students in the Notre Dame Community and 
and women while opening areas of com­"How proud you and Morrie must be. Tell buying a silver tray for my parents' golden 
their guests can discuss the content of 
munications for both black and white. me, is the boy still single'?" anniversary.
matters that the participating members of 
Two things that the society is doing now in "Yes, Edith." "You registered, kid'?" the salesman
the forum will deem worthy of such 
striving for unity are: Mrs. Plumb placed her chubby hand on asked.
discussions.
1) Bringing in a broad spectrum of Black my Mother's Timex. "He'll make a lovely "No, I already graduated" 
Other projects: Lecture Series, film 
speakers that have been working with catch for some lucky girl like my niece, "Are you married, kid'?"
series, weekly newsletter: community
people throughout the country and the Estelle. He's so articulate. Listen, the next "Not yet."
events of the Black Cultural Center and 
world. time he's in town, I'd love to see him. Have "What're you waiting for--the right girl or
information the committee perceives of
2) Getting drama groups that deal with him give me a call and maybe we can something'?"
interest, tutoring program, black music
the historical contributions of black people arrange something with Estelle ... " "It just never occurred to me to get
programs and black art programs.
in America. I was at the supermarket recently when I married." The Society of Ujamaa does not profess to bumped carts in Produce with Mrs. Stacker, "Never occurred to you'? Now take my have the solutions to all of society's . tl the mother of Marjorie, a girl I went to high sister, Gilda ... " 
I I C

The Black Cu tura enter IS presen Y school with. "Yes'? What about her'?"
problems. But what must be understood is 

that with time and an con­located in Room 2AA LaFortune Student "Well, well, well," Mrs. Stacker said. "I "Nothing. Just that. Take my sister,
awful lot of 

Center on the campus of the University of read in the paper that you're still single." Gilda. You know, kid, you guys are the onesstructive work, things change. Will these 
changes be for better or worse'? We say that Notre Dame. It is the campus location "I didn't know they printed things like who are really lousing up the silver
where the Black culture of the United States 
this decision is upon the shoulders of us as that in the· paper." business. And it's not only me--it's Manny 
students. seeks to formally as well as informally ' . "Well, 1 didn't see your name in either the the monogrammer and Lilly who puts yourmake a supportive input to the academic Married or Divorced lists. so if you're name on linens. programs of the university. none of those · You're still "You eligible types are putting us all out 
The New Scholastic Frontier Society is a 

The Center is also the physical location at single," She beamed. of business. You're ruining us. Sleep well recently organized program which works in Whl.ch the Black and the non-black culture 
"Yes, I am." with that one on your conscience."
conjunction with UJAMAA for the bet­

may interface by means of the programs "A regular Sherlock Holmes, aren't I'? I now sleep well at night. I am the proud terment of black-white relationships on that the Black population of the university You know--what did you say your name owner of a monogrammed sterling rea campus. will execute within its walls as well as under was'?--my single daughter Marjorie is alsq service for tw~lve which looks quite elegant 
its aegis. single. Still." on the board that covers the radiator in my
It is expected that these programs will· "Yes,I know. Ireaditinthepaper." kitchen.
Aims: To emphasize the discussion of generate recommendations in respect of the areas, the study of topics, and a.lso the study academic programs of the university, as IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIII 

women's lib: the new chastity ... 
christopher lehman-haupt 
The New Chastity and Other 

the rhythms of the human heartbeat, that 
hates it, that which is basically required of the situations that underlie that impulse.
Arguments Against Women's 

one would think from a superficial glance her in its proper fulfillment will be the same What it comes down to is that the
Liberation. By Midge Deeter, 

that her personal feelings had nothing to do and will present her-whatever complaints to Miss is
188 pages. Coward, McCann & traditions which Deeter un­
with her arguments. 
and claims of need she has lately been en­consciously appealing are dying. The rules 
Geoghegan. 5.95. 

Thus, significant as these points may be in couraged fo give utterance to--with no of the game she is playing all unaware are a paragraph-by paragraph reading of "The 
difficulty ... regardless of the level of her defunct. The evidence of this lies all aboutKill the head, and you don't have to worry New Chastity .... ," They are not really potency .... her performance will be just as us--in our altered attitudes towardabout the body. So goes the argument of worthwhile belaboring. For beyond Miss successfully realized." population growth, in the petty humiliations the knockout puncher in the boxing ring, and Deeter's conclusions, assumptions and Because of Miss Cecter's Premier, it does that even "feminine" women must suffer so goes the hidden premise of writer and strategies like the problem of her purpose in not even matter if one finds her line of ·every day at the hands of men, and, mosteditor (and wife and mother) Midge Dec-writing this book--the killing of the head of argument absurd. There is really no point significaQt, in the apparent vulnerability ofter's second book, "The New Chastity and ; the Women's Liberation Movement in order in protesting the fact that she has lumped men who seek in their sexual relationsOther Arguments Against Women's that the body mif expire. And in that together into a single point of view, and nothing else but an affirmation of theirLiberation." And because of this underlying· purpose she was fated to fail from the start, ignored completely, the differences among potency (C.F. the so-called impotence boom. ·­premise, it doesn't matter greatly whether for even if she had succeeded (which she such varied spokeswomen as Simone De that is featured in this month's Esquireor not one agrees with her provacative hasn't>, even if she had refuted the Beauvoir, Betty Friedan, Kate Millett, magazine>. And Miss Deeter's heavy­conclusions that the women's Liberation arguments she herself has raised on behalf Germaine Greer, Caroline Bird, Shulemith mother admonitions to grow up, little girl;movement is A> Childish in its abomination of the movement (which she hasn't>, and Firestone, Robin Morgan, Gloria S~einem, get on your back, little girl; accept theof Housework, B) Maidenly (and ac-even if she had once and for all silenced Juliet Mitchell, and others. It is ultimately destiny of your anatomy, little girl... arecommnn~t!ng to hoth masturbation and those who have created ideologies in the a wast of time to point out that against this simply not going to make a great deal of
Lesbianism in ' name of the movement (which she hasn't>, counterfeit collective point of view Miss difference. The body of a movement has
towards heterosex C) irresponsible Ione suspects that the movement would Deeter has opposed nothing but her personal many heads, and hydra-like it will grow as ­In its rejection of traditional marriage, and continue to fulfill its non-ideological im­
beliefs unsupPOrted by statistics. samplings many more as it necessity requires. 
m fundamentally life-denying in its an-pulse. 

0 But the point she has missed--even despite 
tagonism to childbirth in the form that we of Miss Deeter's assumptions abou~ the way her concession in another passage that anhave known it for some three millenia. life is. Such as, for mstance, understanding· of history may possiblyBecause of this premise, it does not really her assertion, "For a man, sex is an a~­require an analysis of the interaction bet­matter whether or not one questions certain tainment like the other attainme~ts of his ween ideas and events--is that ideologicalof outside opinion, or even testin,'lny con-life.. .it is indeed often felt by him to be vanguards are produced by popularcerning how she came.to feel the way she paradigmatic of them: each incident of movements, not vice v~rsa, and that even ifdoes. Or that she has presented her beliefs, potency in bed providing some intestinal one succeeds in isolating a vanguard (as she in the sections that attempt to rebut this reassurance of his adequacy to deal with the has not done) and in refuting its claims (asspurious aggregat~ view, in a prose style so world outside it." 
she has not done), one hasn't necessarilyponderous and musclebound in its internal Whereas in the case ?f a .woman, ·:1~ she eliminated the popular impulse behind it or
logic, so lacking in personal character and likes sex, does not mmd It, or positively 



·-------· 
..:6:_____t~h~e_..:o..::b:....s.:..e..::._r_v....:e:....r:......_____:T.:..:h;::!ursday, october s, 1972 
Calendar of events released by Student Union 
Student Union Director Jim
Roche Schulfer of the Cultural 
p Arts Commision explained that the Schneid felt that "things are
the Academic Commission, the 
Cutural Arts Commission and the 
working pretty efficiently. I would CAC is "trying to bring a wide
Social Commision.

The Student Union Services like some suggestions and feed­range of events to Notre Dame." 
Commission is sponsoring the The CAC is sponsoring the back. We've had a real com­
"Second Annual Hot Dog Day" in Ted Kennedy munications problem. People just 
Cinema '73 series in the 
front of the golden dome during Engineering Auditorium. The don't know what's going on". Schneid stressed that the Student lunch today. series focuses upon films that have 
"Hot Dog Day" is only one of the The Academic Commission will . Union tried to "stay away from
become famous as works of art. 
many projects that the Service present Ted Kennedy Friday politics". He said that the Union
1 The Servant will be presented this 
Commission is planning for this morning in Stepan Center while weekend. Patron cards are still attempts to "set up concrete year. The. purpose of the affair is Sarge Shriver will speak at Notre available for the series. projects" and does not attempts to two-fold according to Monte Dame on October lith. The "set up concrete projects" and KParse. who was reached at the Academic Commission is does not attempt to do "research Student Union office in LaFortune. responsible for the different "Houndog Taylorll and development". Schneid speakers on campus, such as the emphasized that the Student Union recent appearance of Norman is entirely different from .. Student 
• hot dog day Mailer. The Commission is Last year's Blues Festival is Government. hopeful that other political figures being replaced by a series of will speak at Notre Dame. monthly Blues concerts in 
lacking imput
Washington Hall. "Houndog"Hot Dog Day gives the Service Taylor" will appear on October 15.
Commission some exposure to dance and drama The Cultural Arts Commission can

\'arious students on campus. It He noted that "We're lacking
be reached for additional in­
brings people together while let­Schneid: "Things are working formation at 3797. some imput from women" and that ting them know we're existing." pretty efficiently" "a few were working with the
The CAC has also brought the The Social Commission has
liP emphasized that it was Union, but not many".
Dance and Drama series to N.D. A sponsored both the Seal and Crofts 
"nothing big", but that it was a "The Student Union is made up
The Services Commission is the 
patron card can be obtained for and Chicago concerts. The Guess
"change of pace". one of the four commissions that of volunteers who want to get
$7.00 and it is valid for all five Who, Stephen Stills, Henry projects done. The only wayThe freshman directories will be constitute the Student Union ...The events of the series. The series Mancini, and Yes will round out 
people are really gonna find outdistributed on Monday by the Services Commission is respon­consists of the National Players, the semester's concert schedule. 
what the union is all about is toServices Commission. "It's got to sible for the campus press, on­the Second City Players of No bookings have been made for start working up here." Thebe the best comic book on campus. campus mail and a variety of Chicago, Marcel Marceau, Saeko the second semester at this time. 
Student Union telephone number is 
Better than Zap or Lampoon. It's special projects. The other three Ichinohe and Company, and one There are however, three open 
7757.

the best dog book yet." student Union Commissions are event yet unannounced. concert dates in the ACC. 
Bike registration total failure 
knowledge of its serial number is
'Despite the poor turnout,
by Pete McHugh issufficient to claim it.

Observer Staff Reporter Singleton does feel that those bikes , Singleton whose own bike was
that were registered will be safer. 
stolen his freshman year felt that
He stated that the odds are less 
the registration will eliminate any Although more than $10,000 that a bike would be stolen if it has such problems.
worth &f bicycles were reported a registration decal. stolen trwh campus last year, only Stressing that the purpose of 
Seeing no possibility of a second180 of the-estimated 2,000 bikes registration was to deter thieves, semester registration, he stated,were registered last week. he said, "You have no real "if people don't show interest now, 
protection. If someone really 
I don't know why they'd show it
Chris Singleton, president of the wants to steal a bike, they can." Farley Cyc'lers, called the later." registration a"hof'('ible failure" .In He pointed out that thieves would light of the a~rent student shy away from a registered bike All other· plans are limited to apathy Singleton said, "The when all the others are more tonight and Thursday's' · students can't possi~ley expect difficult to identify. registration in the two dining halls. Arthur Peers (director· of There is a 75 cent charge for South 
security) to protect their bikes, He mentioned tnat the iden­Bend, campus registration, and unless they show interest them­tification of a lost of stolen bike $1.75 for national registration. The selves." national registration involves a
without proof of purchase or 
computer system that informs the ··~ student if his bike is found anywhere in the country.


lnPIRG requests to 
Singleton said that each in­dividual must know the serial number, color, make of the bike,

drop fee proposal 
and any other identifying characteristics. by Jerry Bradley For the few bikes without serial 
Observer Staff Reporter of consumer protection and en­numbers, a stamping device wilt' vironmental action are being be provided to imprint a number. considered with the cooperation of 
The Notre Dame INPIRG has This equipment should be 
Action. South agency. the
advised the administration not to a Bend available withing next few 
Individuals with projects in mind days, while the decals should be
put an InPIRG fee of $1.50 per should contact lnPIRG at 3287 or ready for distribution today.

semester on the student's account. 
233-(i(i93. 

Black Students Meeting 
"The New Scholastic Frontier Society" will provide a Forum Monday October 9, 1972 from 7 p.m. until9 p.m. in the Black Cultural Arts Center on the Campus of the University of Notre Dame. The topic of discussion will be "What should be the role of the Black Cultural Center with respect to the campus community and the community at large?" 
If you have any questions call Harold at 1871 
l 
NOTRE DAME-ST. MARYS THEATRE 
I presents 
THE LION IN WINTER 
James Goldman's witty, intelligent comedy. O'Laughlin Auditorium St. Mary's Campus October6, 7, 12, 13, 14at8:30p.m. Students $1.50 Phone Reservations 284-4176 (Season subscriptions still available -5 plays $6.50) 
BUSES CIRCLE O'HARE 
FOR THANKSGIVING  
Leave  All Sales Final.  Return  
Nov. 22  Nov. 26  

Tix on sale at the Travel Bureau. Questions call Monte Kearse at 7757 3479 

Last year 75 percent of the student body agreed to· pay an InPIHG fee and signed a petition supporting a statewide organization. However in April of this vear the trustees of lndiana trniv~rsity at Bloomington voted 5 to :1 against putting an InPIRGfee on the students semester bill. 
This veto destroyed the chance of a w£>11 financed state lnPIRG for this school year. Efforts to put lnPJH<; on the bill at SMC were also dropped for the same reason. 
<lnginally there was hope that 1'\C. SMC. Indiana, and Purdue l'ould collect $200,000 in fees. 
BPsides Indiana, Purdue also votedagainst the fee last year. 
. John Bachman. the ND coor­dinator. felt that the money raised hy ND and SMC fees would not be ('I!Ough to support a professional staff. Previous plans called for a staff of 10 to 15 professionals to opl'rate on the $200,000 budget. 
InPIRG plans to operate this year with a projects orientation. A pollution and a welfare course set up last year with the cooperation of 
the  economics  department  are  
currently operating.  There  are  
several  isolated  projects,  the  

largest being a local recycling project. Plans for federal funding 

The Student Union Social Commission Makes You One Last Offer.(which you can't refuse!) for 



A Prohibition Homecoming Dance 
Friday, Oct. 13, at 8:30 -12:30 pm in Stephan Center a'la 1920's . 
Complete with sandwiches and refreshments, 20 piece Dixieland band, old-tirre cars, and everything else from that good old era. 
HURRY! Last chance to buy bids, for only $6:00 per couple, will be Friday at 1-5:00 p.m. in the Social Commission Office. 
Bring your white suits, wide brimmed hats and violin cases for a RIOTOUS EveninosJ. 
--~----­

Thursday, October 5, 1972 the observer 
7 
Sr. McNeal states: 



CLASSIFIED RDS
Students need value systent 
by Jim Gresser Observer Staff Reporter 

Telling students that they are "dependent on each other," Sister Patricia McNeal urged the student community yesterday to create and live a value system for itself. 
McNeal pointed out to the crowd of about 75 at the non-violence lecture that the faculty in most fields presents a certain set of "tools" to the student which he is to use in his later life. She questioned, "Where on the campus do you see how you will use those t.ools?" 
She asked for a change in educational attitudes but added, "I do not that this kind of change will come from the faculty. There is no faculty leadership or direction in the most important questions. Students must define how they will live and do the things they feel important." 
Professor David O'Brien, a 
history professor from the College 
of Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass., 
spoke with McNeal and said that 
working for non-violent change in 
society and in individual life style 
can be highly "frustratjng." He 
stressed "the need for com­
munity" as being of the highest 
importance for the development of 
"personal authenticity." 
New counselors selected 
Ann Beth Hollander and Vicki Ann Mech have been appointed Admissions Counselors for Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame. This new division of the Admissions office reports to Sr. 11\.f Raphaelita Whalen, C.S.C., DireCtor of Ad­missions. 
Misses Hollander and Mech will officially represent St. Mary's College in a new-in-depth recruiting program. They will be concerned with potential students' personality. psychology and development; in not only recruiting new students, but in­suring those accepted the type of education and atmosphere they 

Graduate


personally desire. 
Both women will be travelling extensively, meeting with_ al~m­nae. guidance counselors m h1gh schools, parents and students. 
Miss Hollander is a native of Omaha Nebraska. She graduated from st: Mary's College in 1969 as a 
sociology major, and currently resides in South Bend. 
Miss Mecli is a native of Greenwood, Wisconsin. She graduated from St. Mary-s College in 1972 as an econom;cs and 
business major. She is currently on a Masters Degree Internship in Student Personnel from Indiana University Bloomington. Miss 
Mike McKale, 1972 ·Notre Dame graduate, also spoke on the 

FOR SALE 
"power" of non-violent action. McKale, who recently completed a 

Save! London Fog trench coat, size 42, winter lining, almost new
40 day fast, said that "to speak 

sharp, need $$ sacrifice, Make
about non-violence is to speak 

offer, 7977 
about suffering." 

Panasonic Car stereo tape player,
The purpose of the fast he said, 

$30 call 6272 
was to "appeal to good people to come out and live again" with full 

Electric combo organ with amp. 
$300 must sell, call 6272
dedication to their "brothers." 

At the discussion following the For sale: 1966 Ducati motorcyclelecture, students blasted the 250 c.c. under 7000 mi. $275. A­University as a far too "com­frame backpace $10 Double bed 
mattress and springs $10. Call
fortable" community with no 

Hall-683-2997
relation to the suffering going on around it. For Sale: ONE USED FLAMINGO
Fr. James Carrol, director of campus ministry at Boston 

1 small refrig. good conditionUniversity, was also present at the 75.00 1 RCA 23" color T.V. 175.00 lecture. He urged students to Call Jim 234-8936 realize that the problems "are 
For sale: 1971 Suzuki 500 with 2
here and need to be faced here not 

helmets, $600 or best offer, Call there." Speaking on the inef­Tom 232-0659 
ficencv of rhetoric in a livable non­

For Sale: 1972 80cc Yamaha
violence. Carrol added that "it's 

excellent condition $225 call Kirk
hard for us· to have any words at ( E 1 khartl :193-1901 After 5 all." 
1969 Cortina G.T. Low Mileage
Also present was N.D. graduate 

Good Condition. Call Elkhart 264­
Paul Rogers, formerly in NROTC 4415 here, who is now a peace activist. 
For Sale: Gibson Electric guitar.
When students mentioned 

Call 283-1620
discouragement at the small number at the meeting, Rogers CMC. S-track car tape player, 3000 pointed out that because of the speakers included $30.00 Tom 8636 Paul 7861
program, ''an a wfullot of seeds get planted. Don't let this thing die." 

Mich. State Bus Trip and ticket for sale Kevin 3207 
FOR RENT For Sale 1964 VW, Good Running 
condition, $225, Call 255-7751 after Downstairs apt.. kitchenette, 5:00 furnished. Close to NO. Call 272­6174 am or after 4 pm. For Sale: Can't Sell your soul, 
SYF will, St. Joe. 2103, 2127 Forrent: 828E.WayneStr,newly decorated 7 room house. Drive-in 
WANTED qarage. $120.00 monthly. Call 233­
~425. Wanted: secretary, must type and take shorthand. 6-12 hours One bedroom apt. utilities paid per week. Apply OBSERVER, 
washer & dryer. Call after 6:30 salary negoitable. pm. Need 3 Missouri and 4 TCU tix PERSONALS Rich 1314. 
"DEAR FLAMINGO, PLEASE Need four general admission COME HOME, ALL IS Pittsburgh tickets. Call Dave at FORGIVEN" 6771. 
H Man: Desperatly need tickets to Texas Tile DON grows impatient! Christian game. Call 3377, please. 
Pervus Ltd, Wanted: "FOUR FLAMINGOS" Of all the unmidigated gaul. SYF Enterprizes. Need 2 TCU tickets; will pay. Call Bob 8601. 
Riders wnated to Bowling Green, Ohio leave 4:30 Oct 6 Call 3010 
LOST 

Wallet lost at Chicago concert. Reward. Call Bob 1439. 
Lost Black wallet. Keep the money. Please return the rest. Jimmy Hayes, 234-8936. 
Lost: keys on wooden disk. Call Jan 6953. 
Lost: ND ring, white gold PJL '73, library. Paul, 287-3107. 
Lost: black trifold wallet. Reward. Ray Dandrea, 253 Sorin · 8534. 
Lost: light brown wallet, all ID. Reward. Steve, 1059. 
Lost: "ONE PET FLAMINGO" 
NOTICES 

Washington Post, NY Times and more on Sunday at Pandora's Books, S.B. and N.D. Aves. 
Typing Experienced in disser­tations essays, term papers Arlene Spitz 232-9061 
Articles for the NOTRE DAME SCIENCE QUARTERLY should be submitted Monday evening 2:30-10:00 in 329 NSH or call 7838 
Request a seat for Europe now We're filling fast. Call Clark 283­8810, British Overseas Airways Corp. 
Important: GSU Meeting Friday­127 N.S.H. All delegates should attend. 
Typing: Essay-Term Paper­Thesis Desertation-Technical or Research Report-We do them professionally efficiently, and reasonabl y. Expert Secretarial Service. 233-9466 or 233-3257 
Need Someone to Iron Clothes Mend, embroider, bake cook or Clean? Call Missy 5786 

Fans and Friends Badin's first annual pep rally will be on the porch Thursday night at 8:00 featuring Frank Pomarico, Tim Sullivan. special guest star Digger Phelps and other at­tractions too hard to explain! 
Grad School and job application photos taken 12-1 daily in off­campus office. For more info Call 283-8491 Between 12-1 
Junior League Thrift Shop over 30,000 new and used items­furniture clothing, housewares, etc. Including 800 new articles of men's clothing.Fieldhouse-A.C. C. Sat. Oct. 7 8:30a.m. to 5:30p.m. 
Student discounts on new Westinqhouse Compact Refrigerators Spacious 44 cu. fl. capacity, factory Warranty, immediate delivery. Call now! Wynne's Refrigeration Co. 234­0578 
All Alumni of Brother Rice High School (Chicago), Please contact Jim Kresse: 400 Stanford 8725 
All those NO seniors who had their yearbook photographs taken last month are requested to fill out an activities card in the yearbook office (4th floorLa Fortune) between 11-3 by Friday, October 
6. 
A limited number of bus seats and tickets are still available for the PITTSBURGH PIRATES CINCINNATTI REDS 
PLAYOFF, October 7 sponsored by the Pitt Club. All those in­terested are asked to call Jim 8171 or Pat 8422 by Thursday. 
Action Has Jobs Notre Dame juniors and seniors, the Peace Corps and Vista recruiters will be on campus October 9-13, with tables in the Library concourse all week, the Placement office on Thursday and the Architecture building on 
Thursday and Friday. If you are looking for the best way to go in the future and wi II have a degree or high skill in engineering; ar­cl1itecture, business, education or math and general science, visit the ACT ION recruiters. There is 
a place for you in the world. 
Words 1da 2da 3da 4da 5da 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 1.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.'5 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 

-
-

l
~ 
l
I 
1 
l 
I 
"*> j 
l 
-

Miss Mech, currently at Indiana U. Mech also resides in South Bend. •--------------, 
The newest is called 
MANHATTAN 


MANTOPS -R. 
Manhattan offers you a wide variety of brand new shirt­sweaters and turtlenecks called Mantops...you can create your own look with the large variety of colors, styles and fabrics. We're now featuring a fine collection of Mantops...stop in for a look. 
The Mantop shown is a cotton canvas shirt with quilted shoulders and unique button treatment. $15. 
NEW KNIT SUITS 
Knit is it for comfort. fit and good 
$65 
looks. Choose yours now. 

PAY NEXT YEAR NO SERVICE CHARGE 
Pay one-third in January, one­third in February, one-third in March. No service or carrying charge. 



Need ride to Mich State Fri., Oct. 6; return Sun. Will share driving and expenses. Call Bob 8601. 
Need riders from Cincinnati to ND, Sat. Oct. 7, to return Monday. Call 1763. 
Need two. four general admission tix for Missouri. Art 1026. 
Ride wanted to Ball State University this weekend. Gil 6808. 
Babysitter. 3 days per week. 15­20 hours per week. Daytime. Call Prof. Huckleberry, 7586 or 233­2089. 
3 (!Uys need ride to MILWAUKEE this weekend. Please call Larry or Paul at 8276 or Rick at 8284. 
Need immediatly 2 gen. ad. TCU · tix, call Frank 1943. 
Roommate needed. Notre Dame apts, Apt. 4-B. 832 Notre Dame Ave. Call 234-0449. 
Need Ride to Western Illinois Friday Oct. 6. Final destination 
W.I.U. Macomb. Share expenses. Call Russ 283-1249 
Forming Group-Need Musicians with equipment Call Jim 1520 
Need ride to Cleveland on Friday Oct. 6 Call Mary Beth 4391 
Wanted: Ride to Boston area. Oct. 6 Call 8906 
Ride needed for two (2) to Michigan State game. Call Dave 7683 
Need ride to Dubuque Iowa or Freeport Illinois area, Oct. 13 or any other weekend. Share ex­penses. Call Scott 3364 
Ride wanted for girl from Nor­thern Illinois University for weekend of Oct. 6 Call Gary 234­
4671 
Need ride Oct. 6 to Cincinnati or vicinity. Call Linda 4942 
Have 2 Missouri General Ad­mission Tix ·will trade for. 2 Pitt. Tix-Call Dan . 6154 
--------------------~~---------------­
... 
8 

the observer Thursday, October 5, 1972 





'Cisco' ---dislike in East Lansing 
by Andy Seantlebury . 
John Cieszkowski does not like the Michigan State Spartans. Whatever the reasons, Cisco has never had any problems getting ready for State. ~ "Being from the Detroit area, I've received a lot of grief for choosing Notre Dame. There are certain things I dislike about Michigan State. I guess you could say I have a personal desire to wipe them out." 
But John is also very realistic about the talent and ability of Michigan State. Many people shrugged State off after USC df.'stroyed them, 51-6, last Satur­day. The stats reveal, however, 
Jim Donaldson·========================================================================================================== 

... 
The Irish Eye 
:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;::::::::::::~:~:~:~:::::::::::~:::::JUS f Q remjnder 
Saturday's meeting between Notre Dame and Michigan State is more than just another football game. It's more than a tr~ditional encounter they have made up for the of­fensive mistakes. The USC game was very deceiving. I really don't think Southern Cal is that tough. I know State is tougher than that." 
One thing that will be on the minds of many fans is the reaction of the Irish youth corps playing in Spartan Stadium for the first time. Many a veteran has lost his cool playing before the enthusiastic MSU crowd, much less the "green" Irish led by youthful Tom Clements. 
"Playing in Spartan Stadium is like playing in a pit. It's the LSU of the north. But I'm not worried about Tom. He has a coolness beyond his years. I've never seen him riled. And keep in mind that he gets better every ·week. He's all right in my book." 
The key to the Irish attack will once again be execution. Most fans only see the Irish on Saturday 
afternoons when Coach Par-'
seghian displays the finished product. But an incr~ible amount of work makes up the offense which scored 37 points against Northwestern and 35 against 

betweentwo arch-rivals. It may be the key to Irish hopes for an unbeaten " Purdue, to say nothing of the ' 
that the Spartan defense played well enough to win; the MSU of­fense lost the Southern Cal game. Coach Parseghian has had no trouble convincing the Irish of that fact, especially Cieszhowski: "They'll be up for Notre Dame. All around they're a much better team than Purdue. We're concerned with their speed because they can burn us at any time." 
Playing in Spartan Stadium is not a pleasant thought, especially for Notre Dame, because the Irish 
·have had more than their share of problems there. John, however, is more concerned with State's defense than with any jinx. "The State defense has been playing weir this year. More times than not 

John Cieszkowski heads up the middle against Purdue 
-------------------------~ 
On Sale Tonight! in the dining halls at dinner 
The third issue: 
Irish Sports 


Weekly 
ISC 
season. 
There weren't many people around who thought prior to the season opener with Northwestern, that this year's Notre Dame team could go through the year unbeaten. There were just too many questioJJ marks 
This wash? be a rebuilding year, not~ championshi~.year. . 
Early th1s fall, coach Ara Parsegh1an remarked, What happens m our 
first three games will go a long way in determining how well we do thiis 
year.". . , . 
The f1rst two_ ga~es are h1story. Ther re record~ m the books as easy 
Notre Dame v1cton~s. ~d now the In.sh are lookmg ahead to. Saturday afternoon and the1r nationally televised, annual tussle w1th Duffy Daugherty's Spartans. It's a game that doesn't figure to be as easily won as the firs~ two. . . , . 
Some naJVely conf~dent fans m~y pomt to States 21-16loss to G~org1a
Tech two weeks ago m East Lansmg and to last week's 51-6 drubbmg at the hands of Southern Cal and say that the Irish not only should win Saturday afternoon, but that they ·should win big. 
Those fans should be reminded that the Spartans' defense limited Southern Cal, which had been averaging 540 yards in total offense, to only 390. 
"Michigan State was the best defensive team we have played," Trojan coach John· McKay said after Saturday night's game. They should be reminded that Michigan State's offense was guilty of eight turnovers -five fumbles and three interceptions. .. 
Two Trojan touchdowns came after MSU fumbles inside the Spartan 30 yard line. Another score, the game's first, came on Lynn Swann's 92-yard punt return. A fourth Trojan touchdown resulted from a 25-yard runback of an intercepted pass. That's 28 virtually "free" points that the Spartans gave to S.C. 
"It would be easy if anyone can assure me that Michigan State will fumble the ball away five times, give up a couple of long returns and put itself in the hole constantly," Pareseghian told his squad earlier this week. "But you can't count on it." 
The complacent fans should be reminded that Southern Called by only a 24-6 score after three quarters. 
They should recall that Michigan State has ballplayers like Brad Van Pelt, probably the nation's finest safetyman, All-Big Ten guard Joe Delamielleure, and tight end Billy Dupree, one of the best in the midwest at that position. Linebacker Gail Clark is an All-American candidate who bolsters the tough Spartan defense. And, offensively, 
M.S.U. has plenty of good running backs, all of whom can move with the football --quickly. · 
In addition to their array of talented athletes, the Spartans have several other "plus" factors going for them. The first of these is that they're playing in their own stadium, a place where the Irish have won but once in the past 22 years, that victory coming by a 29.{) score in 1970. 
In addition, the Spartans are coming off a 51-6trouncing, the worst loss for Daugherty in his 19 years as a head coach. You can bet the jolly Irish­man didn't take that loss with a smile and has been working his club hard all week in preparation for Saturday's game with the Irish. 
Finally, M.S.U. has lost three straight games to Notre Dame in their fiercely contested series The Irish have never beaten the Spartans four consecutive years. There's no doubt that the State players will be "up" for the game. 
Taking an overall view of the season, the M.S.U. game this weekend looms as the pivotal point between a "good" year and the possibility of a "great" year. 
If the Irish can get by the Spartans, they'll meet Pittsburgh, Missouri and Texas Christian in Notre Dame Stadium on the next three weekends. Pitt has nothing and, while Mizzou and the Horned Frogs have to be rated as average -to -good ball clubs, their chances of upsetting the Irish at home don't seem to be too good. After all, Notre Dame has lost just one of its last 22 home games, dating back to 1968. 
Navy, in Philadelphia, is next on the schedule and the closest game the Midshipmen have had with a Parseghian-coached Notre Dame team was last year, when the Irish won 21-{). If it's that close this season, it'll be a surprise. 

Air Force, at Colorado Springs, is the eighth game on the slate and is also the biggest threat to Irish hopes of arriving in Los Angeles for their Dec. 2 meeting with Southern Cal unbeaten and untied. 
This isn't to downgrade the other teams on the schedule, including Miami (Fla.), with whom the Irish conclude their home schedule, Nov. 18, but, while some critics have accused Parseghian of not winning "the big ones" often enough, he almost never loses "the little ones". With the exception of Pittsburgh, any team on the schedule could conceivably upset the Irish. But Air Force appears to be the only team with a decent chance, prior to Southern Cal. 
If the Irish can get by the Spartans, they might begin sniffing at the National Title. And a whiff might be all that's needed to needed to send the young, enthusiastic Irish hot on its trail. 
As of now, Duffy Daugherty and the Spartans are barring that trail. 

That's why Saturday's meeting with Michigan State is more than just another ball game.
-
defense which has held two op­ponents to 14 points. Cisco is a firm believer in the doctrine of execution. 
"The key is execution, this is what will win it for us. 1 was surprised that we beat NW and 
Purdueaseasilyaswedid. You've 
got to remember that everyone is up for Notre Dame. We're their whole season. You can tell right off the bat how the execution is 
going to be. So far ·it. hils been 
good. If we keep· it up we'll do it. 
"I went into the season with a great deal of optimism. As soon as I got back I could sense a new unity. Everyone pulled together, right from the start. You know, so much of this game is emotion, and emotion is difficult to explain. I do know that whatever it is, youth, unity, emotion, we're out there as a team. It's been a team effort all 
the way." 



Love tap. 
From one beer lover to another. 


