
On The Inside 
COUP questionnaires go 
out  ... page 2  
Fr.  Hesburgh  on  civil  
rights  ... page 5  



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Wednesday, November 1, 1972
Vol. VII No. 39 
Communist candidate speaks on campus 
Tyner attacks Nixon, McGovern 
by Don Ruane Executive Editor 
"IfNixon is a trick, and if I may be in the spirit of the times, McGovern is hardly a treat," Jarvis Tyner, Communist candidate for Vice President, said last night. 
He labeled President Nixon and his policies as racist, and deceptive; and compared the Chief Executive with George McGovern, saying they work from the same premise but use different tactics. 
Most of the one hour speech was directed against Nixon, and characterized the Communist Party as "the only party that always fights consistently for the rights of the majority," and the means to fundamental change within United States society. 
Welfare: •a racist tool' 
Concentrating on the welfare issue, Tyner said the people in general are the victims because they don't get enough and that it is a racist tool which destroys families, and a needless drain on the taxpayer. 
He said it was deceptive because the Nixon ad­ministration has given $10 billion to munitions in­dustries for use as cost overrun, a figure greater than that provided for welfare currently; and $20 billion to banks without return services. 
Following another theme, that corporations exert too much control over the government, Tyner said it is possible for a graduated tax on incomes above $15,000 a year and to eliminate taxes for those earning less, if only the wealthy would pay their hsare. 
According to Tyner, more housing, schools, hospitals, and 12 million new jobs could be provided for $120 billion if tax loopholes and other gifts to cor­porations were eliminated. 
Tyner criticized the current administration's anti­bussing and public education policies as tactics to "blunt" the efforts of a cause which would assault the corporate control and power of Nixon. 
The candidate said the real issue is not bussing but racism, and that the idea of whether black or white or another racially distinct person should be bussed is an 

Tyner: There must be some concrete money flowing somewhere into someone's pocket. I'm telling you Nixon is buying the election. 
attempt to create dissension between races, and "blunt and turn back a movement to fight for publiceducation." 
Tyner argued that people have taken busses to school for many ~ears, because it was the only means of transportation. He supposed that officials "could have issued roller skates" if bussing was the real problem. 
Nixon: 'buying the election' 
President Nixon was also accused of buying the election, as well as the support of ex-labor officials and well known entertainers. As examples, he named former Teamsters chief Jimmy Hoffa who allegedly was paroled because he supported the President; and singers Frank Sinatra and Sammy Davis Jr. who "got caught in a crooked deal in New Jersey," but were not prosecuted because they back Nixon. 
"There must be some concrete money flowing somewhere into somebody's pocket. I'm telling you Nixon is buying the election," Tyner said after claiming that Nixon has "not an ounce of positive program" for blacks and is moving "very rapidly to undermine present programs." 
McGovern and Democrats in general did not escape Tyner's criticisms. He charged corruption in many Democratic organizations, and said McGovern is much like Nixon. While the South Dakota senator is willing to reduce the military and its budget, he still maintains this system, which should be abolished entirely ac­cording to the Communist Party platform. 
Tyner criticized McGovern for being hawkish on the Middle East, and warned that there is a "strong possibility" of reescalation in Viet Nam if Nixon is re­elected. 
On welfare, Tyner said McGovern and Nixon are talking in the range of $2,600 to $2,400 a year for a family of four while experts say $10,700 is needed for a modest living standard. A pamphlet with Tyner's picture, whilch was available at the speech, urges $6,500 a year. 
Tyner urged a r:ommunist vote next Tuesday, a vote which would be an indication of a desire for fun­damental change by nationalizing control of industry and technology. 
Among the goals of the Communist Party are a reduction of prices; full, and comprehensive medical care for everyone; a rise in wages; an end to corporate discrimination; an end to racism; and jobs or income for all. 
Henry names Hoi to SMC PlanningCommitteechair 
by Mary Janca Staff Reporter 
Saint Mary's President Dr. Edward Henry today named Dr. John J. Hof as its Planning Committee Acting Chairman for the remainder of the semester. 
"The decision was made by the president, after consultation with some key faculty members, the Vice President of Academic Affairs, and the Vice Chairman of the Planning Committee, Sr. 
M. Basil Anthony," stated Henry. 

The position is temporary, created after the Planning Committee's regular chairman, Dr. Donald Horning, suffered a heart attack Thursday evening. Hof will maintain the post, however, "for the remainder of the first semester and possibly beyond that, if Dr. Horning finds that, under doctor's orders, he ought not participate in this wearying kind of activity," (!Xplained He~ry. 
This unexpected hospitalization of Horning has resulted in a further shuffling of personnel within the Planning Com­mittee. According to Hof, Dr. Richard C. Pilger, formerly Area Committee Chairman of Governance, will be ap­pointed as an additional Vice Chairman of the Planning Committee. He will also serve as Director of Division One, which includes the Area Committee on Values and Goals. 
Sr. Basil Anthony will retain her position and serve as an equal to Pilger as Vice Chairman, and also as Director of Civision Two. The Area Committees under her jurisdiction are those on Development, Student Life, Academic Concerns, Physical Requirements, Faculty Affairs, and Governance. 
"The other slots we have to fill yet are namely those of Secretary and Executive Assistant of the two divisions, and we'll be oding that within the next week," said Hof, who previously held these offices. 
This structural change is not expected to affect the work begun by the Planning Committee. 
(continued on page 6) 


the observer Wednesday, November 1, 1972 
COUP studies student rip-offs
by l)avWII)WM 
Questionnaires prepared by the student government Committee on Unorthodox Privateering 
(C.O.U.P.l will be distributed in this evening's mail. 
The questionnaires must be• returned by Nov. 3, and not Nov. 30 as the final paragraph mistakenly states. 
"Are you being 'ripped-{)ff' by your fellow students?" asks the survey. "Are some students making unreasonable profits at your expense? Are some students unfairly receiving economically lucrative positions in your hall or elsewhere on campus?" 
There follows a list of 11 suggested problem areas: "campus press, concessions (of any kind l, food sales in your hall, hall clerks, hall or club movie prices, hall taxes, hot dog stands, stereo equipment sales, mail 
warld briefs 
(c) 1!172 New York Times 
ottawa-After the closest Parliamentary election in Canadian history, unofficial returns gave the op­position Progressive Conservative Party 109 seats to the incumbent Liberals' 108. But the one-seat edge was far from a majority of the 264-member Parliament, and Liberal Prime Minister Elliott Trudeau was non­committal as he worked to restore order to his shat­tered government. But the Conservative leader, 
r 
Robert L. Stanfield said his party was "prepared to form a government" to replace the defeated liberal administration. 
Washington--A staff report of a House Committee has raised new and serious questions about the legality of several large contributions to the Committee for the Re-election of the President. The report, by the staff of the House Banking and Currency Committee, said that at least $30,000 had been funneled to President Nixon's campaign fund through a Luxembourg bank. 
Washington--After 19 weeks of intensive in­vestigation, sensational disclosure and heated political debate, there is still doubt about the full dimensions of the alleged bugging of the Democratic National Committee's Watergate offices. With the election less than a week away, there are still not definitive answers to the key questions-What are the limits in assessing blame, and what were the intentions and actions of those involved? 
an campus taday 
3: 30--colloquium, "some new concepts in fracture mechanics," by dr. g.e. sih, room 303 engineering building. 
4:00--seminar, "uses of gamma ray angular correlation for chemical problems" by professor david a. shirley, inconference room of the radiation research building. 
4: 30--macaa-spe panels, "government patronage in the arts," cce. 
6: 30--meeting, sailing club, 204 engineering building 7:00--spanish tutorial, regina hall lobby. 
7: 00--lecture, "the role of political and prudence ethics in politics," dr. edward I. henry, carroll hall madeleva memorial. 
8: 
00--lecture, "churchill still alone-the crisis during the darkest hour may, 1940, in england" by john Iukacs, university club. 

8:00--macaa-spe, electric stereoptlcan, an intermedla performance, washington hall. 

8: 
00--meeting, introduction to charismatic renewal, butler building behind holy cross hall. 


9:00--meeting, charismatic prayer meeting In holy cross hall. 
•t nd-smc 
delivery, record-tape sales, solicitations." 
Students are asked to number the 11 areas in the order of each's importance to them, crossing off any that don't apply and ex­plaining in spaces provided why their numbers 1, 2 and 3 are so pressing. 
The important thing to remember when answering this part of the questionnaire, em­phasized C.O.U.P chairman Mike Hess and assistant chairman Dave Fromm yesterday, is that the project runs the risk of being no help to . the Committee unless students "are very specific" in their complaints. 
In this way, said Fromm, the questionnaire results "will better inform us of the problems that do exist." 
Responding to the question whether or not he felt that student response to the questionnaire 
The Observer is publish~li!aily during the college seme~ex. cept vacations by the stud~nts of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purc:1ased for $8 per semester (14 per yr-ar) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


When it comes to university styled apparel... 

come to 


ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME • 
We're well into the school year but we know there are some who are not familiar with our store. We know we've got the apparel you want at the prices you want to pay ... slacks, jeans, shirts, sweaters, jackets, outercoats, socks, belts, sportcoats, suite, boots, shoes and much more. Try us. You'll see. Use your Campus Shop Account ... no service or carrying ·charge to pay. 
.; 
> 
.C( Q 
z 
would justify its being distributed, Fromm said, "I think that if there are problems, there will be a response." 
Fromm personally feels that · problems do exist with student-run businesses. 
Committee members will be behind the post office this af­ternoon with the bundles of 
,questionnaires, all pre-folded for the. mailmen's convenience, and hall mailmen can pick them up there. One questionnaire will be distributed to a box. Interested students who aren't able to get copies may pick them up at the student government offices at LaFortune. 
Off-campus students are en­couraged to participate in filling 
(continued on page 6) 
Mike Hess, ~hairman of COUP 


CLUBS ORGANIZATIONS 
if you want to sponsor a booth at Mardi Gras, '73 contact Craig Wernig -3258 before Friday 

Jim class of '63 

Chuck class of '65 proprietors 



WE'RE NEW 
& 
l1quor Store 
1723 So. Bend Ave. Phone 272-9800 

WE'RE CLOSE 
i 
Premium Beer -$1.75 8-pack ICE COLD Boone's Farm -$1.03 
l 
BEER · LIQUORS · WINES · PARTY SUPPLIES · ICE 
Ed'-1. 
Case Discounts -Liquor & Wine


Wednesday, November 1, 1972 the observer 3 

F=====~==~~========~~·
Hint at appeasement 
Soviets repeal Jewish tax When it comes to pumas. we wilt do just obo~;~t anything. 

(c) 1972 New York Times 
Moscow. Oct. :n --A high Soviet police official was quoted here tuday as having said that recent exemptions of education taxes on Jewish emigrants were a gesture toward the United States, not a basic change in Soviet policy. 
The statement, reported by Jewish activists, would appear to confirm a widespread view that waivers recently extended to about 190 families were intended to mollify Congressional opposition to a treaty agreement signed this month by the Soviet Union and the 
u.s. . 
Seventy-six Senators have sponsored a resolution asserting that they would block the trade package unless the Soviet Union rescinded a heavy exit tax being levied on emigrants to compensate the state for a free advanced education. The package includes tariff concessions to the Russians, 
·equiring approval by Congress. 
Open lobbies to begin at SMC 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 
The lobbies of all Saint Mary's residence halls will be open 24 hours a day starting sometime next week, according to Student Affairs Commissioner Barbara McKiernan. 
The motion to keep the lobbies open was approved on both the Student Assembly and the Student Affairs Committee, then passed on an experimental basis by the Student Affairs Council on October 23 and given two weeks to take effect. 
Regina Hall initially came into question as a security problem as it has no doors which can be locked separating the lobb~· area from the dormitory area. New doors are now being installed onboth fht e north and south sides to comply with recommendations, and the central and south lobbies will be open around the clock. North lobby will be restricted to women after midnight on weekdays and after 2:00 p.m. on weekends. 
McKiernan emphasized the experimental nature of open lobbies, and noted that it will come up for review at the February meeting of the Board of Regents. 
According to a letter signed by 47 Jewish activists and made available to Western newsmen, the recent tax exemptions were linked to the U.S. trade pact by Col. Andrei Verein, chief of the Visa 
ND to host 

convention 
College and university art departments in 24 midwestern states will send delegates to the annual conference of the Mid­America CoJlege Art Association beginning Thursday at the University of Notre Dame. Directors of galleries and art in· stitutes will also attend the con­ference, the largest of its kind in the nation. 
Special guests at the conference in the Center for Continuing Education will include Dr. Stephen 
S. Prokopoff, newly appointed director of the Museum of Con­temporary Art in Chicago; Dr. M. Barry Katz, associate professor of the department of comparative arts of Ohio University, and Larry Rosing, dean of the Dayton Art Institute. 
Prokopoff will appear on a panel discussion at 2 p.m. Thursday dealing with "The Art and the Gallery in Mid-America." Other panelists will include Phyllis Kink of Chicago's Phyllis Kind Gallery, Franz . Schulze of Lake Forest College and Dr. Harold Zisla of Indiana University at South Bend. 
The author of several books and learned articles, Katz will join three other faculty members in a discussion of "New Approaches to Art History" at 3:30 p.m. Thur­sday and Rosing will moderate a 
panel discussion at 4 p.m. Thur­sday on "Government Patronage in the Arts." 
HANDMADE LEATHER 
Belts -Headbands available 
TONY'S SHOE SHOP 
Behind the Dome 
1 

If we con~t ltil it. we wiII try to find Department of the Soviet Union. someone who does. • The letter. in the form of an 
I 

appeal to the Soviet leaders, Call me now tor an quoted the police official as having 
appointment 674-9335

said that the education tax had been waived in some cases "not as a change of the authorities' ap­
proach to the emigration problem, "~Piano Pete" 
but as a gesture toward a certain foreign power with which the 
Osceola, Indiana

Soviet Union is seeking to develop commercial and economic relations." The allusion was 
.Quality Tuning and Repairing

evidentlv to the U.S. 
SPEND FOUR FUN-FILLED DAYS IN EXOTIC DETROIT 
Alternative plans of one to four cfays also available. We need volunteers to help swing the critical state of Michigan on Nov. 7 for George McGovern. 
We'll be doing serious work, but we'll have some 
Call the 

STUDENTS FOR McGOVERN 
office at the number below. 
If you haven't worked at all before or have worked everyday for the past 18 months we need your help now. 
It's 4 more days or 4 more years. CALL 283-8415 ­
STUDENTS FOR McGOVERN 
Tom Dooley Room, LaFortune 
SOCIAL COMMISSION PRESENTS A TRADITIONAL FRENZIED BRAWL 



I.e~ an ARMORY PARTY!! 
Relive those good old rolling-over falling-down da·ys of the FIFTIES J. ·1e 
0 
Hot Rods & Bobby S.ocks HOP (S) your ticket entitles you to 10 ROUNDS with your hosts BUD & MICK 
Bop ·= .... e ........ es of Flint and the Jon Putter-Music shov.-s FRID.A.Y NOVEMBER 3rd -8:30-12:30 at the SOUTH BEND ARMORY $2.50 per. person . 
(free bus service will be available 

TICKETS ON SALE!
0 
Daily at the S.U. Ticket Office Wednesday & Thursday at North, South, and SMC Dining halls (Dinner only) and tonight at "THE REVIERS" 
. . 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER John Abowd Dan Thornton Editor-in-Chief Business Manager 
News: 283-1715 EditoriaI: 283-8661
Don Ruane Joe Butler
Business: 283-7471
Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
The New COUP 
Investigation generally implies suspicion and therein lies the biggest problem that will face the new C.O.U.P.-­Committee on Unorthodox Privateering. They are delving into the vast world of student enterprises and to the naked eye investigation means that there is evidence or suspicion of foul play. 
Evidently, this is not the case. Com­mittee organizers insist that there are no indictments in the works. The in­vestigation is purely informative and the specter of foul play should be removed from the proceedings. 
Once that specter is removed, COUP could be venturing into an area that will reap many benefits for the students. 
But to remove the suspicious at­mosphere, one very important move must be made. The Committee must hold all of its proceedings in public. The meetings should be announced well in advance so that students may attend and be informed. This alone could rid the project from suspicion. If the Committee acts otherwise, it will hold an Inquisition­like shroud over its activities. 
It's questionable if problems of this sorder exist on campus at Notre Dame. But that's up to the committee to find out. Committee leaders Mike Hess and Dave Fromm indicate that they think problems are in evidence. 
If there are problems, COUP is our best bet to uncover them--assuming of course the full cooperation of the student body. 
The Questionnaire 
The Committee will be circulating questionnaires today which constitute the bulk of its initial work. Contained on the questionnaire that will be in tonight's mail is a list of 11 possible problem areas where student-run enterprises could be privateering the student body. This is the most important part of the form. Fill it out carefully and be sure to explain your three most pressing gripes--explain them thoroughly. The Committee's work is dependent upon clear, precise complaints on these forms. Only with that kind of base can they investigate possible problems thoroughly. 
Interesting areas 
Areas that could be fruitful to look into include: ---price differentials in hall food sales. If there is any deviation in prices at the hall food sales across campus, COUP will turn them up. Except in rare cases, food sales prices should be uniform in all halls. ---profit splits between hall food sales and hall governments. From all visible evidence, there is not a uniform method of splitting profit between food sales and hall governments. The Committee should investigate this area. Then with evidence in hand, they can decide if this situation is fair. ---individual profit margins from student run concessions. The student run con­cessions hold a curious position. For all practical purposes they are monopolies. Thus, the profit margins of their en­terprises can be raised to their ad­vantage. The lack of competition prevents them from being undersold and the student gets ripped off. 
We're not saying that problems · ab­solutely exist in these areas, but they are three areas in particular that could spawn student profiteering and 
privateering. into them.  COUP  should  be  delving  
Jerry Lutkus John Abowd  

Editor: girls posing before the cameras. Ann dramatically ended her 
In Ann Darin's article The Last article by stating that 'they (Notre Hurrah she pointed out the fact Dame\ have insulted their new that Frank Devin, Dennis Etienne, women students by making them Jan Waltman (who ran as a write­tokens! It seems to me that many in\, and a freshman ran for the of our tokens' have not only district V seat. become accustomed to but have 
I still wonder who 'and a fresh­also come to expect preferential
Letter 
man' is. Obviously Ann feels him treatment. unimportant being a freshman and One faculty member has pointed just a male. out the 'fact' that Notre Dame 
My point is that I wonder if Ann women are 'superior people'. I has ever thought of the hundreds of wonder just how 'superior' our male freshmen who entered Notre tokens will be four years from now. Dame at the end of August only to Martin WQuirk find themselves audience for the Alumni Hall 
MilesTa Cia... 


The Power of Community 

butch ward 

. The past six weeks of life at Notre Dame have been unique for some mtangible reason. Apathy is frequently mentioned as the villian but tha~ seems like an excuse manufactured to avoid the real problem. Writers have attempted to execute political factions in an effort to prevent personal egos from dominating the situation, but that too often transfer.s the problem from its native port to a mystical level. I have bee!l. gmlty. many tif!1es of offering rhetoric as a poor substitute for positive action. The time has come to unveil a basic problem, whether ~~ b~ the_ root of ~ll om: c~nfusion or not, and attack it in the hope that fmdmg Its solution Will Improve our existence here. 
A basic problem of the student body at Notre Dame is that we live day in and day out, in hall communities, and yet we undermine th~ value of th_at li~e style by placing undo emphasis on the importance of ~ampus Wide hfe. The student body at Notre Dame does not find it!; focal point in some executive office in La Fortune; Notre Dame's student body does not center its social life in a student center Notre Dame's student body, for the most part, has not concerned the~selves with issues that find roots outside the hall. We are a university based around hall life. And that is a great advantage. 
Let's completely avoid the subject of government. The life of the Notre Dame student is shaped by the students, not by the structure of a government. Let's appreciate the real opportunities which the words hall community imply. 
If we are really serious about a true educational experience, one that includes learning about people as well as learning in the classroom, let's first realize our strengths in attempting to complete that experience. Our greatest asset is realized in our opportunity to develop the already existing potential that hall community affords us. Community is a beautiful idea; finding that we already possess the potential for such an idea is damn encouraging. 
But community can be as ambiguous a term as "autonomy" or 
"involvement:' The concept is comprehendable to most, but the 
realization of such a life style in our daily existence is a more difficult 
task. One of the basic qualities of community is the ability its mem­
bers possess to share. Let me share one prac~ical thought with you 
now. 
One of the most overlooked powers which every person possesses 
over his peers is his power to leave an impression upon him. The 
elementary school religion books used to term it "giving example," 
but what is that but impressing another by one's own actions? Too 
many of us are unaware of our power to impress; often we forget that 
what we co can have a real effect upon those who closely watch us. 
And let us admit that fact---we are closely watched by many people. 
The key to the awareness of our own power to impress is found in an 
honest admittance of the number of times other people impress us. No 
man is ignorable; no man is completely ignored. 
The power of impression becomes even more acute when the effect 
of the community upon one's mind is considered. The community 
possesses a tremendous capacity to move and direct, once it's full 
potential is realized, but not always for the betterment of those whose 
lives it touches. Let me tell you a story I once heard. 
There was a young boy named Mike who grew up in a Jewish neigh­
borhood in New York City. Mike had been told by his mother always to 
remain within a certain radius of his home, for people in the adjoining 
neighborhoods were not always receptive to the Jewish people. But on 
one occasion Mike wandered too far from his home and found himself 
confronted by a group of older boys who took this opportunity to 
profess their Christianity. They immediately recognized his Jewish 
features, and began their litany. 
"Christ-killer! You murdered Christ, and now we're gonna get you." 
Mike had never heard that work before, "Christ," but he certainly 
paid for his ignorance. After the crusaders had beaten the young child 
mercilessly, Mike wandered home where his mother washed and 
dressed his wounds. Through swollen and bleeding lips, Mike peered 
at his mother and whimpered, "Mommy, who is Christ?" 
Mike died recently in a center for care of the neglected, and he died a 
man unable to form any belief in God, because of that first impression 
of Christ he had received. Call it example, call it an impression, but 
appreciate it for its power. 
Everyone of us who reside within the twenty hall communities on 
this campus has that same power of impression that the young 
Christians imposed upon the young Jew, but each of us also possesses 
a goal of experiencing community that will drive us to share, rather 
than to persecute. Perhaps talk of campus-wide student activism is 
ridic?l~us; maybe it ranks second in effectiveness to a real ap­
preciatiOn and development of community living within our halls. Let 
us recognize that we live together-that is a freedom, not a limitation. 

daanesbury '=l•rry trudeau 
...1/#t£55 B£1116 t;t!fJ?Irl!J'.P 
HMA/5 KNWING HOW ro 
/Jt/6 Bt/lt-fJIN6.5, HOW /0 t9E 

tXACTtY/
/30/JGHT ay /J/6 /JI/51Nt555/ 
OOf?5...
/JNfJ IIOIAJ 10 1?1//11 IJN I!1fJ/11NI5T!?l1T!Oil IIJ17H 1/IE I 
\ POtlf, 
~ 
the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Ann Therese Darin Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis Special Project• Editor: Dan Barrett Nite Editor: Jack Frischkorn Ass't Nite Editor: Sue Prendergast Layout: Albert D'Antonio Sports Nite Editor: Vic Dorr Pictures: Jerome Phillips Nite Controller: Joe Wilkowski 
li.:ditorials printed in The Ob­server reflect the opinion of th writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial com­ment. 
.. 

J 
.. 
5

Wednesday, November 1, 1972 the observer 
I 
I l I





Viewpoint I J 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh 
A Program For Racial Justice 
( COII)Tight New York Times 1!172) 
1t has been rightly observed that the t>ducational and busing crisis is fun­damPntally created by housing patterns, and that the problem will remain with us until open housing becomes a reality. No sPgmPnt of American life is more com­pletely ruled by prejudice and white supPriority than housing. It is a simple fact that an underwodl gangster or a white call girl can more easily rent or buy a house in most white neighborhoods than a black professional man or woman. A very short tim<' ago, prejudice was so institutionalized that it could be written into leases. The lily­whitP arrangement was preserved by FPderal housing agencies. Even after World War II, houses foreclosed on white V('terans would not be shown to black H'tPrans. 
Thus wp have created the ghettos that blight all of our large cities in every part of thP country. Now begins a new and more subtle dPvelopment. Those with education, Pmploymmt and social acceptance--mainly white--move to the suburbs. Businesses and employmPnt follow them. So the blacks are ringed by the white noose of the suburbs. If somP pl'Ople try to build low-and moderate­incom<' housing there, blacks can escape the ghPttos and be closer to better schools and jobs, suddenly there are new zoning 'Jaws requiring multiple-acre tracts for each dwPIIing. The suburbs are willing to enjoy Pvery possible Federal subsidy for roads, sPwerage, schools and so on, but do nothing that would mPan ~.!laring their better living conditions with colored minorities. Even improvements in public transportation comP about largely because of the demands of thP affluent. who must get into the city to work and back to the safe and secure suburbs at night. 
Evt>ry White is Responsible No onP person is responsible for this pattPrn of prejudice, but everyone white is rPsponsible: we and our white institutions, our whitP housing contractors, our white rPal-estate agents, our white financial and lmding entities--all maintain the myth that onP black family, no matter how nice, inevitably ruins the neighborhood. This is a self-fulfilling prophesy, and the real-estate agents havp made it a profitable myth by their block-busting techniques. Why do we have bad neighborhoods in the world's most affluent country? Even in somP less affluent European countries there 
arP no neighborhoods as bad as ours. Again. we face the problem of color and the total failure to integrate one-sixth of our population with the other five-sixths. There arP relatively few blacks who live in good nPighborhoods. Those who do are well­educated and wPII-employed--and they are thP proof of what is possible in America, as wplJ as the exception to the present rule of prPjudice that has given us our ghettos. 
As far back as present memories go, and further beyond to slavery and Recon­struction days, it was unthinkable for most whites to live next door to blacks, since blacks wPre thought to be inferior--simply lwcause of their color--and therefore, a superior white should not socialize with an inferior black. It was all right for blacks to takP care of white children and nurse them, dean the house, wash the clothes, tend the sick. build the buildings, cook and serve the mpa)s and clean up afterward, even sleep with lecherous whites who so desired, but l'Vl'n aftPr all that association, they must be kPpt in their place. That meant until a d<'cade ago there were many places in AmPrica where blacks could not get a drink of water or a Coke, a meal or a room, a seat up front on a bus, a swim, a place to pray, a lwd in a hospital or, God help us, a place to be buried--if doing any of this involved associating with whites. It is party of my rPal hope for America that all, or most, of this daily affront to the human dignity of blacks was outlawed in one day by the Civil 
Bights Act of 1964. But there is no known way of outlawing prejudice, and all of us whites must confess that the sense of white superiority is still deeply rooted within us. As a Catholic priest I should certainly know bPtter. but I catch myself thinking and judging unjustly almost every day. 
Tht> Third Link--Education 
If problems of housing and education are organically linked, there is a third link in the chain--employment. If you have equal access to jobs, you have access to what you called the good things in life: Pducation. housing, health, food and drink. Now the simple fact is that most Americans of color have unequal access to the better jobs because of a variety of reasons growing out of other inequalities--mainly Pducational. Ninety-six per cent of the jobs paying above $15,000 annually in America arP held by white men, which says something about women's inequality, too. There are always twice as many unem­
ployed blacks as whites, and black teen­agers are about 25 per cent unemployed and often unemployable , mainly because they wPnt to getto schools or dropped out of them. Those blacks who are employed make on the average about half as much as whites. Most black mothers of families must also work to supplement the family income. EvPn those liberal white institutions for the working man--the labor unions in the con­struction trades--have had a miserable rPcord \n granting equal access to work. 
Because of the numbers involved and the 
available facts. I have 
mainly spoken here of blacks, but we 
learned a few years ago in a Southwest 
Chicano hearing of the Civil Rights Com­
mission that the average family income of 
Chicano migrant farm workers in Texas 
was $1,400 a year. The condition of their 
housing, educational, health and social 
services was far worse than that of most 
blacks. American Indians, we are learning, 
are equally far below the miserably low 
scale of Chicano farm workers. 

I have never been deeply concerned about 
the wealthy or powerful of this land being 
deprived of their rights. Only the poor and 
powerless have these problems in any real 
sense. And even here, the beginnings of 
Federal help -for legal services, for 
example -are now under attack by in­
sensitive legislators and executives on both 
the Federal and state levels. New York 
contractors have been let off the hook for 2 
vears on their "affirmative-action" 
minority-employment programs. Pressure 
on the Federal Civil Service Commission to 
hire more minority-group employes has 
been relaxed, _just when the commission had 
finally begun to move forward on this 
problem. Again, it's the old vicious 
circle: Deny equal opportunity to 
become qualified and then deny em­
ployment on the basis of nonqualification. 
No Mmwy for Our Poor 
Americans have traditionally tried to 
solve problems with money, except when it 
comes to our own poor. I am willing to 
concede that the present welfare situation is 
a mess and should be totally reorganized. 
However, 75 per cent of present welfare 
goes to the poor who, as the good Lord 
reminded us, will always be with us: 
children without parents, the physically 
disabled, the blind and the halt, the old, the 
wounded veterans, the mentally deficient. 
Even some wealthy people who are so ready 
to criticize welfare costs cannot want this 
group to starve or to be homeless. 
As for the "welfare loafers," it makes 
little sense to criticize anyone willing to 
work if there are no jobs available or no 
training available to qualify for work. I 
believe that everyone who can work, should 
work -but this does mean both creating 
enough jobs and opening job training for 
those now denied it because of color. 
It would be interesting to compare 
welfare with other forms of American 
~---------------------------~----~@~rnm~w~~d~tioo~~oo~~d 
Part Two 
human justification. For openers , in nonwelfare costs, we subsidized others to the tune of $43 billion last year. 
For example, we subsidize wealthy far­
mers: we subsidize railroads and airlines, 
and roads for those who have cars; we 
subsidize those looking for oil and gas, those 
investing in tax-free bonds, those sending 
heavy mail in huge quantities for com­
mercial purposes; we subsidize military 
dictatorships, foreign investments, trips to 
the moon, travel by Congressmen and 
Government executives, everywhere for 
practically any purpose. We subsidize grain 
for the Russians and Chinese, even though it 
raises the cost of bread for our poor. We 
subsidize most poor countries while we 
gripe about a miserable subsidy to the poor 
of our own country, and cannot face the 
obvious solution: federalizing the program, 
providing work for those who can work and 
providing a minimal annual income for 
decent human living in America. 
All this is tied up with tax reform, which 
would tend to lighten the burden of Middle 
Americans, whether colored or not. They 
now bear a disproportionate share of the 
financing of dubious governmental 
programs, and it is their sons who 
disproportionately paid with their lives and 
limbs for the Vietnam debacle. If America 
is verging toward populism today, it is 
precisely because the numerous lower and 
middle-class Americans, the former made 
up chiefly of colored Americans and the 
latter of white ethnic Americans, are 
beginning to take equality of opportunity 
seriously, and justice and fairness, too. 
The price of solving our domestic 
problems, especially the problem of color 
inherent in most of them, is very high. The 
price of delay is ever larger problems and 
ultimately a larger human cost. No nation 
will have true civil peace -and freedom ­
unless it expends every possible effort to 
achieve justice for everyone and, most of 
all, for the poor and powerless. 
Ht>lii.'W tht> Constitution 
Thomas Jefferson, who wrote our 
Declaration of Independence, was our 
Ambassador in Paris when our Constitution 
was written . On his return, he refused to 
support this Constitution unless a Bill of 
Rights was added. This was done, and a 
better, richer document emerged. We have, 
over the years, enlarged its vision of justice 
and its scope with additional amendments, 
the latest giving the vote to the young. As 
we approach our 200th birthday, as a nation 
living under the oldest written Constitution, 
might it not be a good idea to give every 
American the opportunity to sign and ratify 
our Constitution in 1976, as those first few 
Americans pledged their lives and sacred 
honor in signing the Declaration of In­
dependence in 1776? We might also prepare 
for our pledge by taking some direct and 
simple steps now to make the promise of our 
Constitution come true for all Americans. 
(to be continued tomorrow) 

j j 
l 
~ 
j 
l 
1 •4 
I l J 
j 
j 
j 
I 
l l 
1 
l I l 
j 
I j 
j 
I 
j 
1 
j 
j j 
l 
j I 
j 
l 
I I 
j j I j 
I 
I 
I 
.1I 
1 
J 
... 





.. 
the observer Wednesday, November 1, 1972
6 

Questionnaires to inform students 
(continued from page 2) use whatever means necessary to out the questionnaires. They may find solutions." pick up their copies at the off­These would include, Hess 
campus students office. suggested in a partial inventory, 
All surveys must be returned by hall and campus judicial boards midnight of Nov. 3. Boxes will be and the Student Life Council. centrally located in each residence Fromm stressed that to all these 
hall for receipt of the completed ends, he felt accusations would be forms. Off-campus students forthcomi.l_!gon the questionnaires, should return theirs to the off­but that "proving them is going to campus office. Anyone may take be tough." his directly to the student govern­"That's why we're asking for ment offices if he or she prefers. specifics," said Hess. Blanks are 
"C.O.U.P. wants to stress that provided on the face of the the reason for this questionnaire is questionnaire for the purpose. purely informative," said Hess "And of course, all comments 
and Fromm. It will not develop will be held in confidence," he into "an indictment of any student added. enterprise." Both concurred that Grace Hall rector Father "many of the various student Thomas McNally welcomed the 
operations are well run ...and investigations. "I was not aware honestly run." that there was a problem," said Fr. 
C.O.U.P. will review all student­McNally, "but I would be glad to run operations • .and will approve see if any did exist, and exactly (but not endorse) those operations where <the problems) are." given high marks by students C.O.U.P. chairman Hess went 
through"the questionnaires. Those before the Hall Presidents Council receiving complaints will be in­last night at the Council's request, vestigated, and, if necessary, the 
results of the investigation will be publicized. 
Guest instructors to
"We would hope that student~ would remedy these things themselves," said Hess. "C.o.U.P. has no power other than investigatory. We hope that if 

lead SMC vvorkshop
we find any serious problems, the students involved will remedy the situation under pressure from fellow students." 
However, added Hess, "if those problems are not resolved by the students involved, we can and will 
·Nixon peace 
plan may 
aid Dems 
by Bruce Petrovik 
Starr Rl'porter The recent peace proposal an­nounced by North Vietnam may well end the war, and thereby kill the biggest issue of the presidential £'lection up to date. 
Paul Sherer and Pat D' Arcy, Co­Chairmen of the St. Joseph's County McGovern 'Campaign feel that this may prove to be a blessing to the Democratic Presidential candidate. 
D'Arcy summed up the feelings of many McGovern supporters when she said "What President Nixon has done is simply agreed to what the North Vietnamese have been asking for over the past three years." 
Sherer pointed out that many Vietnamese experts feel that there has been a lot of gound lost in terms of Vietnamization, resulting in more and more of the coun­tryside being held by the Viet Cong. This being the situation, Sherer believes that this will result in eventual Communist govern­
ment.  At  the  beginning of  the  
Nixon  administration these same  
terms  were  available  and  could  

have produced a more desirable result, according to Sherer. 
Sherer concluded that we have suffered very great loses, inflicted tremPndous damage in Indochina, kept our prisoners of war in cap­tivity for four more years and gained very little in the bargain. 
Both Sherer and D' Arcy thought I that peace would be a blessing because the recent peace proposal was precisely what George jMcGovern thought should be done to end the war. 


TONIGHT! FREE MOVIE 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 
Two writing workshops featuring guest instructors from the University of Iowa writer's workshop will be offered by Saint Mary's writing department on November 12 and November 19. 
Terry Davis and Dick Zollo will assist writing instructor Dominick Boscoe and writing majors in coordinating the sessions, which will deal with expository writing, or "the kind of writing students do for classes," according to Boscoe. 
There was also to have been a section dealing with poetry writing, but Boscoe explained that few students signed up for that section, and he was unable to obtain a poet to lead it. Forty-two students in all registered for the two Sundays. 
"There is a definite need for a workshop like this. I think that everyone would admit that the level of student writing on campus 
could be declared Students  improved," are asked to  Boscoe bring a  
·"'"''~--~  

-FIVE 
to explain his committee and its work to council members. He anticipated no problems in receiving cooperation. even though 
Horning's input will be missed 
(continued from page 1) 
"John Hof has been working very closely with Dr. Homing and knows all the details of the organizational structure and the Planning Process. All the com­mittees are launched already and are operating under their chair­men, or chairwomen, as the case may be. So it ought not slow down their pace," explained Henry. 
"We will miss Dr. Homing's input. He has been a very dedicated faithful, and hard­working chairman, and we would hope that sometime he gets back into this business, but it doesn't look like that will be the first semester," concluded Henry. 
sample of their writing to the workshop. Sections will be small, consisting of six to seven students, and two sessions will be offered each day lasting two hours each. 
Boscoe emphasized that any students, not just English majors, may participate in the workshop. Registration has already closed, but interested students may contact Boscoe at 308 Madeleva. Time and place of the workshop will be announced at a later date. 
A creative writing contest, also sponsored by Saint Mary's writin 
department, will offer monetary prized to winners in poetry, fiction, non-fiction, photography, and artwork. 
Prizewinning entries will appear in the fall-winter issue of Chimes, the SMC literary magazine, along with other non-contest material. 
Chiml's will accept manuscripts 

7, 
nine 
and contest entries until November and contest entries should be designated as such. They will be 
The Neighborhood Centers Presents 

judged by an editorial board of students, under Boscoe's 
Jerry Butler

supervision. Entries may be submitted to 308 Madeleva. 

and His Revue 
with
DOWNTOWN 
SOUTH BEND 


Brenda Lee Eager 

Sunday, November 5, 1972 

~.-.~-----for th~e~;i:=~;a;;1 

7:30 pm 

story that now Is "a totally 
fascinating picture."-Rex Reed 

Rogers High School Aud. 

AGI:ORGE ROY HILL· PAUL MONASH PRODUCTION 
PAHS ROAD




SLAUGHTERHOUSE 
MICHIGAN CITY, INDIANA •••nin1 MICHAEL SACKS 
Advance tickets at the ND Student Union

,RQN LEIBMAN VALERIE PERRINE 
Adults $4.00 --Students $3.00 

AUnOYersal PICiute in HCHNICOLOR" 
Main Floor $5.00 --at Door $4.50 
For Information CallFeature Times 
1:45-3:45-5:45 7:45-9:45 
872-0351 or 872-1201 
alleged bali food sales price inequities was what prompted the creation of .C.O.U.P. 
Hess and Fromm have also given two more students com­mittee membership. They are Dave Crisculo of Morrissey and Joe Runde representing the Scholastic. These two additions bring total committee membership to eleven. 
NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
Announces Tryouts for Eugene lonesco's 


THE KILLER 
Sunday, November 5 at 1:00 p.m. Monday, November 6 at 7:00 p.m. 
Room 228, Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's Open to all ND-SMC students Audition materials available in Speech and Drama Office Room 110, Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's 
ANYTHING WRONG WITH: L\istening to a couple of fantastic bands? 
Finding someone to dance to them with? D-rinking anything you can think of? Staying up late and missing Carson one or two nights a week? 
So Now You Know Where You're At 
280'2 SOUTH lith ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
Phone. 68l-43SQ 
Beginning this Friday 
THE NOTRE DAME EXPRESS 
non-stop Greyhound to Chicago will depart Notre Dame at 4:55. 
Call Tom Boyer 234-8259 for Reservations 

presented by 


s.u. SOCIAL COMM. 
Steve McQueen in 


''THE REIVERS'' 
En 1neer1n Aud. 8 & 10 m 
------~~-~ 



Wednesday, November 1, 1972 
the observer 7 
AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL 
RESEARCH CONSULTANTS 

Little Bir:J Screen 
COMPLETE EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH MATERIALS> 
includino 
·NEW AND USED DISCOUNT PAPERBACKS

here comes the (flick) parade 
Mor.-Fri (202) Sat 9:30-5:30 .785-4511 10-2 2430 PENNSYLVANIA Ave. NW Wash DC 20037

art ferranti 
AREA DIRECTORS WANTED AMERICAN EDUCATIONAL 

This column was pre-empted the (channel28) at 9:00 Frank Sinatra crimes will rate them seven years the years listed. Since you might last two days due to some leads a group of Americans in and up in prison. Swiping Sodas he interested, what follows are previously scheduled articles and Germany during the war in Von they aren't. those shows plus one obvious bence will only cover the movies Hyan's Express-another movie The Nielson rating service is addition <by yours truly) since Life up to and including the ABC rerun. With Trevor Howard and a always under criticism since it is reported only those up to the Sunday Night Movie <WSJV, the few others, this better-than-the primary agency which October-April season of 1970-71 local ABC affiliate station, and the average war flick has Sinatra as a monitors something on the order of . "Texaco Star Theater" (with other stations as well were kind downed pilot escaping from the a few thousand television sets and Milton Berle 1951-52, "I Love 
enough to give me their movie 
Nazi's. He and Jim Brown have a ultimately, by its findings, Lucy" 1952-55, 1956-57, "$64,000 schedules weeks in advance from lot in common considering the determines what shows get can-·Question" 1955-56, "Gunsmoke" today. l conclusions of this movie and celed and those that do not. In the 1957-61; "Wagon Train" 1961-62; 
Tonight begins the parade of 
Brown's The Dirty Dozen. SPpt. 10, 1971 issue of Life "Beverly Hillbillies" 1962-64; NBC has The Way West. another magazine, the top ten rated shows ''Bonanza" 1964-67; "Andy Griffith good movies <no comedies) routine horse-opera, on its :;ince TV began were listed. In Show" 1967-68; "Laugh-In" 1968­
through the rest of the week. Touted by The New York Times 
Saturday night flick at 9:00pm. other words. the programs listed 70; "Marcus Welby. M.D." 1970­wire service (John J. O'Connor) to 
The remake of the foreign legion v.we the No. 1 rated shows during 71; and "All in the Family" 1971-72­classic Beau Geste is scheduled for r---------------. ,---------_::_ ~~~~~~~~~~==~=­be "superbly paced" and to "lay claim to some of the most im­the channel 22 !ate movie on pressive and sensitive acting ever Saturday. With Guy Stockwell and contributed to television," That Doug McClure, it is a passable 



('et·tain Summer deals with "the ,·ersion. The ants crawl at 11:30 
personal relationships being 
Incidentally, pertaining to the :.!ffe-::~"d by the fact of 
late movies at 11:30 Monday to homosexuality". It stars Hal 
l<'riday I shall only review them if Holbrook ("Mark Twain Tonight." thev are of notable interest or for and "The Senator" segment of somP special occasion. The same "The Bold Ones" l as a forty year goes for the local 22 late movie on old maintaining such a relation­Saturdays. ship with a mid-twenty year old Trivia·: A sequel to The French 
man played by Martin Sheen (The ( 'unnt•t•tion is being planned by Snh.iect was Hoses). Hope Lange Philip D'Antoni, who did the ("The Ghost and Mrs. Muir" and academy award winning flick "The New Dick Van Dyke Show") originally. and tentatively casting plays Holbrook's divorced wife and JPan-Paul Belmondo as a French 
PITTSBURGH®
Scott Jacoby plays his son. It narcotics detective and Gene premieres on 28 at 8:30 pm. Hackman as guess who? Roy Scheider. in the meantime. is being 
PAINTS
If that is not to your liking, catch directed by D'Antoni in The Seven­The Heivt•t·s with Steve McQueen, 
Notre Dame
l1ps. Scheider. who played Hack­Mitch Vogel, and Sharon Farrell man's sidekick in The Frenchtonight. It is playing on campus 

Student Discount
Cunnt•l·tion chases baddies whose' and the admission is free (beingI presented by the Student Union 
-30% off Latex Paint
Active College Program 
Social Commission. Based on the
f l<'aulkner novel. this is a light 
Weekly activities & Bible study 
-15% off unpainted
hearted movie which provides 
Everyone Welcome 
some great humorous moments-­
Call: 272-2040 
furniture 

and touching ones as well-as it 
272-2153 
follows the escapades of McQueen, 
283-7986 
a boy. and a black in the South for a 
333 S. Michigan
Transportation Available 
Grace Baptist Church 
week of amusement <a red-light 
house of ill repute and a horse 
289-2439
19637 DuBois 
racel during the early 1900's. 
Sunday School ... 9:30 am 
Morninq Worship ... 10:30 am
It will be shown at 8 and 10 tonight 
in the Engineering Auditorium. 
The Thursday and Friday night flicks on 22 present in two parts 

"The Pause that Refreshes" 
The Dirty Dozen-the first repeat 
movie of the year. With Lee 
How about a Weekend away from it all?
Marvin, Robert Ryan, Hohn Cassavetes, Charles Bronson, Jim Brown. and a number of other 
A Retreat Weekend of Prayer, Discussion, 
notable actors, this film follows the 
Relaxation, Silence.
1 training of twelve convicts promised amnesty if they fulfill a mission for the army during W.W. 
Conducted by 
II. The mission? Wipe out the 
the Atonement (Franciscan) Friars
whole Nazi high command of 
course. A trivial matter for 
Nov. 10 (Fri. nite) to Nov. 12
Hollywood but some good 
moments <for example, Donald 
(Sun. afternoon)
Sutherland's masquerading as a 
general during an inspection) are 
1 hr. from Notre Dame on Lake Michiga
offered. The bombs explode at 9:00 both nights. -Transportation Provided On the ABC Sunday Night Movie 
t union invites you to spend an evening with 
'-'"-""

YES 
plus special guest -LINDISFARNE(from England) 
NOVEMBER 18 --8:30 p.m. 

TICKETS: $5.50, 4.50. 2.75 
available at the ACC ticket 
office (9-5) and the Student 
Union ticket office (11 :30 -1 :00, 3:30-5:00 daily) 
l 
j 
.__l 
j 

the observer Wednesday, November 1, 1972
8 
~ ... 

lnterhall tourneys near championship rounds 
team of McKenna and Marx faces In 16-inch softball competition,Crucial contests mark this Bursick and Thompson n a Blue the Accountants defeated Holyweek's lnterhall sports schedule as division showdown, with the Cross to win the upper-divisiondouble-elimination tournaments winners playing Gold Division title. Holy Cross moves to the near the final rounds. 
champions Neuville and Lon­losers' bracket and faces theOne title in tennis was decided, dergon for the Open Division MWD-Grazers winner. Thewhile two other events are to 
championship. eventual titlist in this division willconclude this week. Junior Walt The double-elimination Womens' play the Accountants with one loss, Skrod and Bob Stucker took the Singles event concludes upper­needing two winds in a row toNovice Doubles crown, defeating division play as Ellen McGuire claim the championship.
Gary Makowski and Jim Scher in meets Becky Banasiak for the title. Eliminations have pared thestraight sets, 6-3, 6-4. The Skrod­Softball and soccer are also soccer competition down to sevenStucker duo's sweep kept intact drawing to a close with double­teams. Off-Campus and Breen­their string of not losing a set in the elimination tourneys going into the Phillips gained berths in the upper­entire tournament. 
final rounds. division finals in close games, with In other tennis competition, the 
Off-Campus edging Grace 1-0, and B-P squeaking past Holy Cross on




Irish ranked J2th in polls 
the basis of penalty kicks, after a 1­1 tie in regulation play. 
Notre Dame, after rebounding bombed Oklahoma State 34-0, and In the lower bracket Stanford from its first loss of the season with won number-three ranking from plays Alumni with the winner a 21-0 victory over TCU, was on the both the coaches and the writers. facing Sorin. Holy Cross and rise in both college football polls Ohio State, last week's third-place Grace also remain in contention 
this week. team in the U.P.I. poll, edged for the losers' bracket title. 
The Irish moved from 13th to Wisconsin 28-20 and was voted fifth The lnterhall Office reported a 12th in the Associated Press Poll by the writers and fourth by the good response for the "co-ree" <the sportswriter's survey) and coaches. volleyball tournament. An climbed from 15th to 12th in the Michigan, after downing Min­organizational meeting will be held United Press International nesota 42-0, climbed to fourth in the for all team captains, today at 4:00 rankings <voted by the coaches). A.P. Louisiana State (idle), in the lnterhall Office. 
John McKay's Southern Cal Oklahoma, UCLA, and Penn State Powerful Dillon's 42-0 rout of Trojans shook off nine fumbles round out the A.P.'s Top Ten, and Sorin last Sunday not only broke enroute to an 18-0 blanking of Auburn and Notre Dame head up the old IH single-game scoring Oregon, and maintained a snug the second ten. record by seven points, but it also hold on first place in both polls. The order is much the same in surpassed the season scoring mark Alabama, 48-11 winners over the U.P.I. rankings, with Michigan by 22 points. The Big Red, with one Southern Mississippi, remained a fifth and Oklahoma, LSU, UCLA, regular-season contest remaining distant second in both surveys. Texas and Auburn finishing behind have also shut out all their op­
Nebraska's Cornhuskers the Wolverines. ponents so far this season. 
f::::.:::::::::::::::::;~:::::i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i:i::::::::::::::::::::~
AP poll UPI poll 
I Jimmy ~l~l
1. SoutlJern California (41) 8-0980 
I. Southern Cal (~I) (8-lt.) ~ 
Z. Alabama (3) 7·0 811 
t. Alabama (2) (7-0) 273
3. Nebraska (4) 1).1 750 
3. Nebraska (2) (1>-1) 26:i 

lm the Greek-lm
4. Michigan (I) 1·0 694 
4, Ohio State (6-0) 233
5. Ohio Stalt' (I) 6-0 &::9 
5. Michigan (1-Q) 224
I. Louisiana State 6-0 558 
I. Oltlahoma (:i-1) 188
7. Oklahoma :i-1 471 

~~ll midweek i~~!i
7. Louisiana St. (6-0) 182
8. UCLA 7-1379 
8. UCLA (7·1) 84 1.::';:::::::::::::::::::::::;::;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~
t. Texas :>-1 301 
10. Penn State 6-1 290 t. Texas (:i-1) 58 Home team in bold type
10. Auburn (6-1) J5
11. Auburn 6-1 238 
II. Penn State (6-1) 25
12. Notre Dame :i-1 196 
13. Tennessee 4-2 122 12. Notre Dame (:i-1) 12 College games
13. Iowa State (:i-1) II
14. Iowa State :i-1 112 
14. Colorado (6-2) 5
IS. Colorado 6-2 92 
II. Missoun +3 2tl 15. Air Force ( 6-1) 4 Purdue even against Michigan St. 
16. Tie Tenn. (4-2) 3
17. Louisvifte 6-0 20 Dartmouth by 3 over Yale
II. Tie Tex Tech (6-1) 3
18. Texas Tech 6-1 19 
18 Stanford (:i-2) 2 North Carolina State by 13 over
19. Air Force 6-1 17 20. Arkansas :>-2 10 Pittsburgh West Virginia by 7 over Pittsburgh
Jim Donaldson Pl'nn Stat£' by 17 over Maryland Ohio State by 28 over Minnesota 
Notre Dame by 17 over Navy Michigan by 27 over Indiana Harvard by 10 over Pennsylvania 


The Irish Eye 
·.·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;·;;,·.·····························.;·:·:·:·:·:·:·;·;·;·;·;·;···;·······:·:···;········· Sports sharts 
Georgia Tech by 7 over Duke
·····E·~itP·;~l~k;~··~~t"~t~~d~·g-··~~f~~~~~~~·=·~=gainst Texas Christian last 
Cornell even against Columbia Saturday <158 yards and a touchdown in 16 carries) set the statistics buffs North Carolina by 7 over Clemson scurrying to their record books to find out the last Irish player to better 
Princeton by 6 over Brown that output. Syracuse even against Boston 
Research showed that Nick Eddy, speedy glamour boy and All­CollegeAmerican halfback for Notre Dame from '64 to '66, was the most recent Air Force by 13 over Army runner to outdo Penick, picking up 163 yards against North Carolina in Wisconsin by 6 over Iowa 1965. It took Eddy 21 carries to reach that total, however. 
Il!inois by 5 over NorthwesternEmil 'Red" Sitko holds the individual game record, gaining 186 yards in Tennessee by 6 over Georgia24 attempts in the ND-MSU game of '48. 
Florida Stateby 10 over Houston Auburn even against FloridaTypically, Penick wasn't particularly overjoyed by his play against the Arkansas by 8 over Texas A & MHorned Frogs. A humble guy with a genuine desire to excel, he was upset Oklahoma State by 10 over Kansasabout the two fumbles he lost to the Frogs after long runs. 
Missouri by 10 over Kansas State"I think I can run better and my blocking has got to be a lot better," Oklahoma by 17 over Iowa StatePenick said. "I definitely have to eliminate the fumbles." 
Alabamaby 24 over MississippiMost pleasing to Penick was that he threw a key block to spring Notre StateDame's other backfield speed boy, Art Best, loose on a 57-yard scoring T£'xas by 20 over Southern jaunt. 
Methodist T£'xas Christian by 3 over Baylor
With four games remaining, Penick is 230 yards shy of becoming the Texas Tech by 8 over Rice top gaining ball carrier for a season in Ara Parseghian's nine years at Nebraska by 17 over Colorado Notre Dame. Bob Gladieux currently holds that distinction, having California by 6 over Oregongained 713 yards in the '68 season, but Penick is within striking range with Southern Cal. by 21 over 483 yards thus far. Washington St. 
Notre Dame continued to be bothered by fumbleitis against the Horned lJCLAby 8 over Stanford Frogs, bumbling the ball away four times to bring the season total for Washington by 8 over Oregon State fumbles lost to 14. The Irish lost just 14 fumbles all of last season. South Carolin;~ by 15 over Wake 
Forest 
The Irish may be playing in front of empty seats this Saturday for the LSlJ by 14 over Mississippi first time all season. Philadelphia's Veterans' Stadium, site of this Tulane by 7 over Kentucky weekend's Navy-Notre Dame game, seats 65,000 people and there are still plenty of seats available. 
Pro games

-----------· 
Notre Dame isn't the only team prone to fumbling, however. The Miami by 10 over Buffalo nation's top-rated team, Southern California, fumbled no less than nine Cleveland by 10 over Houston times while struggling past Oregon, 18-0, last Saturday in Eugene. Pittsburgh by 3 over Cincinnati 
Oakland even against Kansas City
Attendance promises to be good for Notre Dame's home hockey opener Baltimore by 8 over New Englandagainst Bowling Green this Sunday in the ACC. Over 2,000 season tickets St. Louis by 3 over Philadelphiahave been sold in the 4,400 seat arena, and, with student interest running Detroit by 6 over Chicagohigh, a sellout looms as a distinct possibility. San Francisco even against Green 
Bay
The Irish icers will be without the services of their leading scorer in 
Minnesota by 17 over New Orleanseach of the past three seasons, center John Noble, for this weekend's Los Angeles by 3 over Atlantahome-and-home set with the Falcons. Noble is still nursing a severely Washington by 3 over New Yorkbruised knee sustained Oct. 19 in a split-squad scrimmage. 
JetsNoble had been skating between standout wings Eddie Bumbacco and New York Giants by 6 over DenverIan Williams. His place will be taken by another senior, Ricky Cullha. 
Dallas by 8 over San Diego 


Last weekend the Notre Dame sailing team travelled to Long Beach, California, to take part in the Douglas Cup Regatta. The Irish, making their first ap­pearance in this seven-race event, were forced out of competition by a broken rudder after turning in a strong third-place finish in the opening day of racing. 
Skipper Kevin Hoyt and his crew of Bruce Marek, Neil Barth, and John Maus performed well during the first day of racing, posting a 2-1 record. The lone Notre Dame loss was a close one, coming at the hands of the Naval Academy. The Navy crew eventually went on to take third place in the eight-team competition, finishing behind regatta champion Washington and runner-up Hawaii. 
The sailing team has begun organizing for the Kennedy Cup, the National Big Boat Cham­pionships, to be held this April in Annapolis, Maryland. Anyone with cruising boat racing ex­perience who wishes to compete should contact Kevin Hoyt at 3693 by Friday. 



THE FIIESIGN THEATRE 
IN,....NEWfaM 

QQCJ110QO OGJQC3[]
(}Ql'J1]\!J 
DIIIKTID IIY STEYI GILLMOR 
NOV 2 Thurs. 8 pm & 1 0 pm NOV 3 Friday 6 pm, 8 pm & 10 pm Ena. Aud Admission $1 
FREE "REEFER MADNESS" posters to first 1 at show! 








