
Prime Mover R. Calhoun Kersten (back row) indicates his attitude towards the present student government constitution , and displays his means of enforcing a declaration of martial law. 
Martial law declared by SBP Kersten 
by Michael G. Baum 
In an arbitrary move last night, R. Calhoun Kersten, elect, announced that the Notre Dame campus was under martial law. 
Speaking from the Observer offices with a few close friends, and an "Influential Nonentity," Kersten mollified his statement with a few ex­planations. Due to his repeated inability to get a quarum of the Senate in any of the meetings he called, according to Kersten, the decision was made to declare martial law without the benefit of "Senatus Consultum." "I just want to get rid of any checks and balances on my awesome power." Kersten explained. 
He noted that the Senate "may have been intimidated "by the presence of the two gunsels he had brought along for moral support. He had no comment on the probable reaction of the Senate to his move beyond, "If they want to rubber-stamp it for me, that's okay, but they had their chance." 
Kersten then explained that the reason behind the move was to allow the "Oligarchy" to "write our own Constitution and pass it by referendum" 

Kersten proves his worthiness to Father Toohey­-picture on page 7. 
without Senate aid or obstruction. "We'd rather see it go through the students than the Senate," Kersten remarked. The referendum on the new 
eonstitution. once it is written, will be carried out in each hall section by the section leaders. 
The 'Influential Nonentity" elaborated on the plan. A Constitutional Committee well be con­vened in April. to report by May 11, the end of the 1\lartial Law period. "We want to get in (to the constituionl some sort of referendum," he said, including a body of section leaders, which they feel will be more responsive to students than the Senate. 
Fielding questions from the incredulous Ob­s!'rwr staff. Kersten announced that there definitely would be a coronation and inaugural ball. Refering to Rev. William Tooh~y's (Director of Campus Ministry\ desire to see him walk on water. Kersten claimed that he had walked upon the lake at midnight of St. Patrick's feast. since on April 1st. he will be elsewhere walking on snow with skis. 
Kersten explained that he had no plans as yet for the SLC elections. explaining. "My mother really makes all the important decisions in my life. and I haven't got a letter from her yet." 
Kersten also said that applications for titles within the "Oligarchy" would soon be accepted, requiring a statement in 25 words or less why equalling 82 and 100, respectively. Philosophy 25 16 0 
Both departments would have to drop 2 men to be as close to the ratio as possible. Howeever, Psychology 13 04 31 +5 they might still exceed the quota, but only by a few percentage points. . Soc. Anthro 25 13 52 +3 
In the College of Science, the physics depart­ment would have to reduce the most, by 4 men, Theology 38 16 42 +9 but by department percentages, the geology, pre-professional and micro-biology most exceed the quota with ratings of 100,000, and 86 per cent. 
College of BusinessGeology has a five-man department, all tenured; pre-professional a one man faculty; and micro­biology follows with six of seven tenured faculty Accounting 14 09 0members. 
Arts and Letters F:inance 11 08 73 -1
The College of Arts and Letters appears to have the most potential for growth among the Management 15 09 60numbers of tenured faculty, especially in Fr. Burtchaell's old home, the theology department. 
Marketing 05 60
Presently, the department has 16 tenured 0 members, but this could be increased by nine tenure grants. 
College of Science 
Other departments which could add significantly include psychology (5), modern languages (4), history (3), and sociology­Biology 21 13 62 +I
anthropology (3). Music would have to lose one tenure, while Chemistry 15 ll5 0
philosophy could remain stable with its present total of 16 tenures to a total of 25 faculty. 
Geology
Although the College of Business has only four 05 05 100 -2 departments, it could absorb another tenured faculty member in management, but would have Math 41 23 56 to lose one in finance to come as close as possible 
Micro Biology
to the two-thirds ratio. 07 06 86 -1 Not Less than 50 percent 
Physics
Fr. Burtchaell, who told the American 31 25 81 -4 Association of University Professors in February that the quota is, to his knowledge the Pre-professional 01 01 100 ? best way, to maintain flexibility and preventing Notre Dame from being in a position "where it has to refuse appointments," set a bottom limit College of Engineering of no less than one half of the regular faculty. Only two departments fall below this level and both are in the College of Arts and Letters. They Aero-Mech 34 24 71 -I are the 31 percent tenured psychology depart­ment <4 of 13 l, and theology, which has 42 per­Architecture II 09 82 -2 cent of its faculty tenured (16 of 38). 
Reasons behind Reasons 
Electrical 18 13 72 -I The tenure quota system was drafted, ac­cording to the Provost's comments before the Chemical 18 05 f>3 0 AAUP. because the University was losing its "freedom to hire." 

Civil 13 07 54 +2 Although only 12 of 29 departments exceed the 
Metalurgical 06 06 100 -2
quota. several will not be able to hire for the next 10 to 15 years. Several reasons have produced this condition. They are the low average age of faculty. a lower attrition rate, shifting and in­+Leeway refers to the number of faculty that creasing student enrollments, and a resultant could be tenured, or that must be retired for the impression from the enrollment trends that department to be as close as possible to the departmental popularity will continue in­prescribed two-thirds ratio in relation to their 
definitely. current faculty total. Fr. Burtchaell has conceded that the system Note: The figures for the College of Arts &
has hidden difficulties, some of which may not appear for years, but he has also expressed Letters were supplied by departmental chair­willingness to listen to alternatives. man. Figures for Business, Science, and It is possible that some alternatives may arise 
Engineering were supplied by the respectivein the future. and not necessarily on a depart­dean's office.
mental basis. However, this will depend on the ability and willingness of the University ad­ministration and faculty to communicate, and cooperate. a point well hashed over at past AAUP meetings. and apparently demanded byletter signed by 31 members of the faculty and 
sent to fop administrators. 
he's "one of the boys." Ruminating on the absence of any film with 


A Happy St. Pat's Day to the Irish!
which to take their picture, the entourage then left the office. 

the observer Friday, March 11, 1972 
Can opponents block Wallace? 
broader than the issue of busing, downtrodden, of those who feel conference yesterday, Jackson,
by Douglas Kneeland 
the other candidates have zeroed unrepresented. Sen. Edmund S. who has taken an antibusing stand 
( c l New York Times 
in on him early in Wisconsin. Muskie of Maine and Mayor John similar to Wallace said he con­
Milwaukee, March 16--Wisconsin In speeches and news con­V. Lindsay of New York are sidered the Alabaman a began to take shape today as. a ferences in this state today and reported to be planning similar "demagogue." battlefield in which major yesterday, Sens. Hubert H. tactics for Wisconsin. But he said he felt the contenders in the April 4th Humphrey of Minnesota, Henry M. "Wallace showed in Florida an Democratic party should not Democratic presidential prlmary Jackson of Washington, and ability to identify himself with readily dismiss the Wallace vic­will fight to seize the populist George S. McGovern of South problems," McGov~rll said at a tory in Florida because it "ex­ground that Gov. George C. Dakota have attacked the news conference here today, "but presses deep and angry concern Wallace of Alabama apparently Alabama governor with varying Governor Wallace himself is one of over such issues as crime, taxes, staked out for himself in Florida. degrees of intensity, arguing that the problems. The role I can play is busing, welfare, and national 
Wary that the Wallace appeals to they and not he were the real becoming part of the solution." security." disaffected whites could be representatives of the poor, of the In answer to a question at a news Stumping across the state for the 
last two days, Humphrey said that 
he thought that the Wisconsin 
primary presented an opportunity

Sr. Alma talks on merger 
"to unite the Democratic party of 
this state to defeat Governor 
Wallace." 
However, reflecting a tactical 
decision to try to seize the populist 
issue from Wallace without con­
by Larry Dailey 
stantly doing battle with him as a 
oersonality, Humphrey said in an 
Sr. Alma Peter, acting president of St. Mary's 1ppearance in the tiny farming 
College, stated in her talk before a small group in ~ommunity of Armott in the north 
the Keenan Hall Chapel that her -philosophy entral section of the state: 
towards Notre Dame -St. Mary's has not changed "I am not going to be diverted 
since the end of the merger talks. .·rom the main effort by spending 
"No matter what barriers are put up, human all of my time in some kind of 
nature being what it is, there is always going to be argument, a running battle with 
cooperation between the two schools," she ex­the governor of Alabama when all 
plained. he is is the governor of Alabama 
Questioned as to what precise incident broke the I'm not running for governor --I'm 
negotiations, Sr. Alma replied, "I couldn't tell you. running for president." 
Normally during meetings such as these, the more In another part of the same 
talk there is, the greater the rapport between speech, he asked in reference to 
committee members. Yet, at the merger talks last Wallace: "Where was he when I 
year, the more the two merger teams talked, the was fighting for 100 per cent 
farther apart they divided, and the less they un­parity? Where was this (\rovernor 
derstood each other. It certainly wasn't a lack of ofAlabama? I'll tell you what he 
talk that ended the merger attempt, it was a lack of was doing. He was down there 
listening. As things progressed, the gap widened ·sr. Alma: "There is always qoing to be '<eeping people poor." 
and finally there was a complete breakdown of cooperation between the two schools. Governor Pa-trick J. Lucey, wno 
communications." has remained neutral in the 
before Keenan audience 
fUIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIITitf[I]]T.ilJJIIIIIIIUUUIIIIIHIIHIIH
Sr. Alma remarked that she disliked the attitude primary, also has shown some of the Notre Dame negotiating team. "It was a 'you anxiety about Wallace's candidacy do this -or else ... ' approach. I have since talked Gaystoback Kameny in the state by declaring that he with people from Detroit, who are involved in a would endorse one of the other merger taking place there. They said that at candidates if the Alabaman ap­
(March 16, 1972) The Notre Dame Gay Liberation 
merger talks, it is customary for both sides to treat peared to be making heavy
yesterday announced that they will nominate Franklin 
each other as equals, even though it is assumed that inroads.
E. Kameny for President at the 1972 Mock Democratic 
eventually the larger school will submerge the Convention. The governor added, 
smaller schpol. I think that the Notre Dame merger however, that he did not think
In a letter to the organization, Mr. Kameny stated, "I 
team wasn't aware of this. Although I will admit Wallace's strong showing in
would be honored to be nominated by the Notre Dame 
that there was a lack of understanding on both Florida could be transferred to
Gay Liberation ... your plans for the Mock Political sides, Notre Dame made the approach that St. Convention sounds interesting, exciting and possibly Wisconsin, an estimate shared by 
many observers here.
Mary's was going to be completely absorbed. It very productive -expecially since I am sure Lawrence appeared to the St. Mary's merger team that O'Brien will be very aware of anything that happens Wisconsin will elect 67 delegates nothing was going to be kept -that was the type of there ... The nominating and seconding speeches will to the Democratic national con­
vention in Miami next Julv. 
approach that was made. I myself have been firmlY. provide a good opportunity for getting our case out in favor of unification all along. I worked with Fr. before the public, the political establishment and our 


Sheedy in 1965 (as academic dean of S.M.C.) when community.coexchange classes began. Few people were Frank Kameny is the first admitted homosexual to violently opposed to the merger. The decision to quit run for national political office. Last year he ran for the merger attempt was the Trustees'." the House of Representatives from Washington, D.C., When asked about the future of St. Mary's, Sr. on a Taxation without Gay representation is tyranny"
Alma replied, "Although it is difficult to predict the platform.future. I will have to admit that the next couple of Kameny holds a Ph.D. in physics and astronomy, has years will be tough. Many girls will probably taught at Georgetown University and is presently the 
transfer next year and they have a perfect right to president of the Mattachine Society of Washington,since many of them came here for the specific D.C. purpose of expecting to be a Notre Dame student. Delegates interested in working for the nomination Approximately 185 of the present sophomore class of Frank Kameny should contact Tom Hubbard at 287­
have requested transcripts, and a number ap­4543. proximately a little less than that from the fresh­flllllltiiiiiiiiiii11111111111111111WUI1Willllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
men class have done the same." 
Yet. Sr. Alma g'!ve her opinion that, "Actually, St. Mary's could drop a couple of hundred of girls, since we're presently just too crowded. Anyway, there is more of a "community" feeling at 1,200." The present enrollment is around 1,500. 
~1ock convention 
The following delegations will meet today, Friday: Ohio, 4:30, Fiesta Lounge, LaFortune Student Center; Texas, 6:00 Amphitheatre, LaFortune Student Center. Sunday, March 18: Indian, 7:00, Grace Hall i\ll'ditation Room, first floor Grace Hall Check lists in the huddle for the 
delegations for each state. 


$200.00 
Limit on personal checks cashed 
Cashier Office 
e 

10% OFF 

On any meehanical 
work and winterizing. 
For students and 
University Personnel 
Roseland Gulf 402 U.S. 31 North Across from Burg~r King 



cSmera/J 
CJeutlf 
Sapp~ire 
18h.Jewefrlf 

cal/ us . .• 
1JiamonJ !Import Companl:f 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS 
Seen by Appointment Suite 602 St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Phone 287-1427 
......,. You like people 
......,. Are willing to listen to their problems ......,. Want to learn how to 
help them ......,. Are not looking for com­pensations 
......,. But are willing to pre­for a life of dedication to by bringing to them the d news" of Jesus' Iife, . and resurrection. This prayer, work, study, and inued self-giving,lifeofthe 
For young Catholic Men interested in the Priesthood or Brotherhood. 
Contact: Bro. Kevin O'Malley, C.P. Passionist Community, Dept. C 5700 N. Harlem Ave. Chicago, Ill. 60631 

(11lE OBSF;.;,;R,.;.V;;.;FiJ...:;,~...1_________--"' 


Nixon to request
~\lational Ne,Ns 
immediate halt on new busing 
WASHINGTON, March 16-­President Nixon said tonight that he would ask Congress for legislation that would call an immediate halt to all new busing
Page 3

Friday, March 17, 1972 orders by Federal Courts --a "moratorium", he said, on any new busing of schoolchildren for purposes of achieving racial balance. 
In a nationwide television and radio address, Nixon said he would also propose a companion measure, called the Equal Educational Opportunities Act of 1972, to improve the education of children from poor families. 
The President asserted that, when taken together, the two proposals "would focus our effort where they really belong --in better education for all of our children rather than on more busing for some of our children." 
Nixon: Calls busing "a
The President's proposal fell far 
bad means to a good
short of a Constitutional amend­
end" because it disrupts
ment--a course he said he had 
established patterns of
rejected because the ratification 
neighborhood schools. 
process "takes too long." 

The President wants to
It was also much milder than 
"focus our effort in
several proposals offered in 
better education for aII of
Congress in recent weeks. 
our children rather thar.
Proposed legislation offered by 
busing more."

Sen. Robert P. Griffin. R-Mich., would, for example, have permanently denied all courts the power to bus children for purposes of racial balance. The President's brief address constituted only a summary of more detailed and comprehensive recommendations he will send to Congress tomorrow. He did not, for example, explain precisely what the word "moratorium" involved --whether, in other words, busing could be resumed in the future and when. He also said that the new Educational Opportunities 
The natural, everyday scene 
Act would provide $2.5 billion in the next year for poor 
of a nun resting in church 
children. Yet he did not make clear whether this would 
takes on almost mystical 
all be new money or whether it would include some $1
The Irish band will march for
characteristics when seen 
St. Patty's Day today billion now provided disadvantaged children under
from some angles. in 
Title 1 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act 
Cleveland ...not dressed like 
of 1965.

this, of course. 
A key element of the proposed Act, he said, would require every state or city to grant "equal educational opportunity" to all persons regardless of race or color. This was taken to mean that states would be required at least to "desegregate dollars" --that is, equalize per-pupil expenditures. 
After sketching the highlights of his long-awaited response to the public controversy over busing, the President spent most of the rest of his speech ex­plaining his opposition to "busing for the purpose of achieving racial balance in our schools." 
The President's essential argument was that busing "is a bad means to a good end" because it disrupts established patterns of neighborhood schools--a concept in which he had said many times he believes. 
He also resisted the notion that all those who oppose busing are bigots. 
"There is no escaping the fact that some people oppose busing because of racial prejudice. But to go on from this to conclude that 'anti-busing' is simply a code word for prejudice is a vicious libel on millions of concerned parents who oppose busing not because they are against desegregation but because they are for better education for their children." 
As he has done in the past, Nixon devoted a section of his speech to letters he said he had received from parents across the nation. The thrust of these letters, he suggested, was that the majority of Americans do not wish their children "bused across a city to an in­ferior school just to meet some social planner's con­cept of what is considered to be the correct racial balance." 
The President's announcement came after weeks of Congressional stuggle over various proposals to restrict the capacity of the Courts to order busing to achieve school desegregation. 



Pompidou calls for Market referendum 
<cl 1!172 New York Times 
Paris. March 16--President Georges Pompidou unexpectedly announced today a popular referendum on the question of the entry of Britain, Ireland, Norway and Denmark into the Western European Common l\larket. 
In President's decision to bypass parliament for the ratification of the treaties signed with the four ap­plicants last January came as a surprise at the end of a long news conference on a wide range of domestic and foreign matters. 
Roth the President and those who heard him in the crowded, stuffy Salle Des Fetes of the Elysee Palace appeared confident that he would win his vote easily and thus enhance his position in Europe and in France. His aides said the vote would probably be held at the md of April or the beginning of !\lay. Since the French ah\·ays \·ote on a Sunday. either April 30 or May 7 was considered a likely date. 
This will be Pompidou's first use of a constitutional device to which his predecessors and political mentor Charles De Gaulle, resorted five times. Ironically, the President is using the referendum to push through a vital change in Western Europe that De Gaulle twice vetoes. The last referendum, in April, 1969, marked a defeat for De Gaulle and his subsequent resignation paved the way for the election of Pompidou. 
Pompidou said his "personal responsibility" was involved in the British entry, an event "that goes well beyond a simple widening of the common market." 
He declared "it is a new Europe that is being created and will assert itself and on which will depend the future of the European peoples and consequently of all theFrench in the political, economic, social and human fields." 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER
THE 
John Abowd Jim Jendryk


OBSERVER 
Editor-in-chief Business Manager 
Don Ruane Bill Bauerle Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
News: 283-1715 Editorial: 283-8661 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer,Business: 283-7471 on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 


Students and tenure 
May the road rise up to meet you, May the wind always be at your back, May the sun shine warm upon your face, the rain fall soft upon your fields, And, until we meet again, may God hold you in the palm of his hand . 
. . . An Irish Blessing 

Students more than any single group in With a tightly competitive, research 
just a few points of view on a few things that you can take at their worth. 
the University come up on the short end oriented approach to new faculty the first 
Dr. Edward Henry, upstaged by Wednesday's faculty letter, seems to
of the new tenure quota. areas to feel the pinch will be in­
be a man of confident action, as demonstrated by his three ad­The institution of any heavily com­dependent study, student petitioned ministrative changes within a week of his appointment as SMC president.
petitive system of promotions un­classes and other individualized Not bad considering he doesn't get the batteries to his new machine until 
dermines Notre Dame's best recruit­educational opportunities. July 1, officially that is. 
mennt advantage when dealing with Perhaps Notre Dame can break the His new machine also will need quite a bit of oil to make the gears of 
prospective faculty member. The Ivy mold and emphasize teaching even with faculty, administration and student communication mesh a bit more 
League, University of Chicago, Stanford tenure quotas and a high turnover of smoothly than a clutch let out in the middle of a shift. 
and some other big name colleges that young faculty. But to a teacher who Apparently Dr. Henry has established some sound foundations among 
use quotas offer assistant professors knows that he is going to be on the job faculty and students with his ideas and comments. It is particularly encouraging to hear a higher-up say that he wants include students and
(untenured) three or four year contracts. market against in a few years, publict­
faculty on the trustee board.

Teachers who accept these contracts tions are understandably more im­
However, the cautious wait-and-see attitude should be maintained to
know they have only a slim chance of portant. 
some degree. There are still many attitudes and philosophies at SMC
promotion. They accept the job, do Trade-off 
which, if not changed, could stop Dr. Henry before he starts. This does not 
research, and publish prolifically. The This is the real world, and there's a 
mean cooperation should be limited, or that deliberate crisis should be
university may even lighten the teaching trade-off involved. Harvard, etc. has the 
created as tests for the new president. Dr. Henry has much to do, and that 
load to accomoda te a heavy research opportunity to see a potential permanent will be a test in itself.
schedule. Then they move on. 
faculty member in action for three years -There was a curious lack of signatures from the colleges of business Different Approach before making a tenure offer. Odds are and science on the faculty letter. A random poll of faculty by the Observer they won't make a mistake -they can't, has revealed that at least 20 members of the faculty, in general, did not For a while, at least, the approach is they don't get a second chance. even see the letter let alone get a chance to sign it. Although they too different here. A potential faculty Here, an implicit decision is made probably agree with it in substance, let us not assume that the prominent member who accepts a six year assistant faculty who did sign consider themselves spokesmen for the entire
when the professor is hired, and, if he
professorship knows that there is a good faculty.
lives up to expectations, ther's a good
cha nee he will receive a permanent The resignation of Fr. Neil McCluskey from the SMC board of trustees 
chance he'll get tenure. Talented PhD's
appointment Publications are not was unamimously accepted by the board members at their special
who don't like the "all research, little 
meeting Sunday, according to board secretary Sr. M. Gerald Hartney.
disregarded but, because of the different teaching" approach think twice before 
Sr. Gerald refused to speak for the board or herself concerning the
arrangements, teaching and becoming a 
refusing an offer atND when they know it allegations Fr. McCluskey made in the letter. Among the allegations
part of the academic communnity 
renresents a career opportunitY. were that the full SMC trustee board was deliberately kept in the dark
become much more important. The 
Notre Dame is not the Harvard of the about the merger negotiations and that SMC created the impression that 
faculty member realizes that there is 
Midwest, not because it doesn't measure she intended to remain semi-autonomous in several academic and non­
more than just his own research to worry 
up academically but because un­academic areas. Fr. McCluskey also spread some blame on Notre Dame, 
about. 
claiming that some lower level administrators gave the SMC negotiators
dergraduate education is still the major
In a predominantly undergraduate grounds to believe that SMC would disappear with a merger.
con cern. Being different means for­
university, the fact that assistant Sr. Gerald seemed to prefer to let the merger issue die for now, ex­
mulating policies that respect this
proessors can devote time to perfecting plaining her refusal to comment, "We're over that now, we're looking to
commitment to undergraduate students.
teaching styles means that students can the future." She also refused ocmment on Fr. McCluskey's comments in
Tenure quotas??
expect more personalized attention now, late February that she had wrestled control of the negotiations in her 
not in graduate school. John Abowd zeal, "We teach Christianity here, and we should live it here." She added that this means we should turn the other cheek and not "descend to the level" of trading barbs. 
-And finally, we can chalk one up for the students, well maybe half a point. Enough noise has been raised to get the Academic Council of its kiester to reconsider the calender. 
While students have been griping about the loss of a week's worth of salary, members of the University staff have quietly endured in their offices. While speaking with one secretary yesterday, it was noted that under the proposed new calender, the staff losses its one fall semester holiday. Labor Day. It also gets to enjoy a stupendous day and a half Christmas break, and according to the secretary, "If we're lucky, we might get off for the Ascension." 
For what ;t's worthrururu"""""'"""'""""""""'""'"""" 

Thursday thoughts 
umuluuuuuuullllllllllllllllluuuululuuuuumruummummuDon Ruane 
Yesterday was one of thosedays,and this column is the result of one of those days. So many things have been popping up and down the last few days , but there has been little time, information or progress that would supply enough background for a full and accurate column. So here are 
Jim E. Brog0 nlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
St. Patrick's Day fallout 
blocks a restful green. My friend Mr. Rogers said as 
My friend Tom is building a fallout shelter. He is 
he painted. "this could be the only green left after 
dragging bricks to his room now. But they are really 
they drop the bomb." We all nodded and we painted
not bricks. They are not your ordinary Ad­
green faster.

ministration Building yellow-bricks, but actual 
Time passes. as it always does, and the bomb
cinder-type hlocks. Each block has 3 holes in its 
didn't drop. as it never does. First in an emergency
side. ~:<:acll hi<H'k i!> gray. Each block is heavy. 
m~ friends the Rogers needed and took the can
Yesterd.1y I asked Tom why he was dragging 
•oprm'r. Then the Barlett pears. Then the freestone 
those 3 holed. gray. heavy cinder-type blocks to his 
peaches. Then the dehydrated bread sticks. Then 
room. "Because they are too heavy to 
the Campbell's soup lwrf noodle soup. Now all that 
carrv. "answered Tom. 
is left is the water !n bottles in a box in the corner.
Th.at was before I heard that Tom was building a 
.\nd thr shelter is a playroom for the kids. 
falloutshelter. Now I know why Tom is dragging the 
Rut Tom plods on. Tom drags heavy and stacks
notyellow. not Administration Building not bricks to 
gray a!'d paints green his cinder-type blocks. For
his room. He is building a falloutshelter not ot save 
food in can Tom has peanutbutter sandwiches from 
his life. but to preserYe his sanity. 
the di:,ing hall wrapped in napkins. For water in
When I was little we never had a fallout shetler. 
bottles Tom has a faucet marked "C" over his sink. 
We had no basement and our cesspool farbade is to 
Tom i~ now pushing the last cinder-type block in its
dig one. But my friends the Rogers had a fallout 
place in the last wall of the finished except for one
shelter in their basement. My friends the Rogers 
cinder-t~pe block shelter.

kept food incans and water in bottles in their shtler. 
Tom 11 ill staY in tht>re onlv 24 hours as he does
When I was still little. they painted their cinder-type 
PI t'r~· St. l'atri~k ·s Day at !';.otre Dame. 
The Staff 

Nite Editor: Jce Abell Ass't Nite Editresses: Marlene Zloza, Maria Gallagrer Day Editors: Tom Drape, Bill Sohn Headlines: Don Biancamano Pix: BCb Hugres 
Others: Everybedy and his half-drunk brotrer Typists: Helen Smudski, Rick Smith, Barb Norcross, Fran Finnegan, Pat Kenny nite controller: mark j. niederkorn 
1. 
damn your chart, john 

2. 
happy st. pat's day, m and everybody 


News Editor: Jerry Lutkus Managing Editor: Jce Abell St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagrer Editorial Editor: Jim Me D=rmott Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Features Editor: Red Braye 
~~~~----------------------------------------------------, 

Friday, March 17, 1972 

R. Chris Conners 
Hamlet -A Planned Happening 
have witnessed on the ND-SMC stage. The moving into different character poses,Tardiness is not usually regarded as 
sinful, unless you are with modern translation of the script lent itself to Ophelia has her actors moving into different 
faced an. 
credibility <something difficult with a character poses, Ophelia has her turn as theunusually hard third grade teacher. 
Shakespearean text), but coupled with the men break character and congregate in aHowever, had we published this review 
earlier the ND-SMC Theatre production of fine performances of the actors succeeded bar. Hamlet's last words echo in your mind, Hamlet-A Planned HappeninJ! might have very well. This was due in part to the fact "Nothing else can matter. Nothing else is that the interpersonal relationships in the important. I loved you, Ophelia." Nancy
been prolonged. In a surprising and deeply text were transformed, intact, to the con­overwhelmingly conveys her emotions tosatisfying display of originality and 
temporary construction of the play and
creativity, the actors and arranger Richard the audience as Hamlet pushes her away 
Bergman, presented the audiences of their were solid and believable. and she turns alone to center stage weeping three performances with, perhaps, the first 
softly and crying, ''No." original Hamlet since the Bard threw out his Ed Gray, as Polonius, played the part of a The bulk of the credit goes to the en­
last chamber pot. loveable, doddering old windbag to absolute semble, Sakaley, Bartoshesky, Fetters, Opening the play in a surrealistic com­perfection. His soliloqy to Laertes, played Fierro. Gray, Bob Sauders, Larry Wet­bination of dance and mime, the cast glided by AI Fierro, was a parody to remember. termark, Polly Conly, Cathy Bader, Mike 
through moving tableaus depicting the Did any one in the audience have a tape Genero. Chris Egan, Chris Haywood, and relationships between characters and recorder? the arranger. Richard Bergman. No single establishing the proper mood and tension Cliff Fetters as Osric provided the comic actor could have upheld the quality of between actors and audience. This all was relief for the play. His impersonations in the emotion and mistique of the theatre present done to Mussorgsky's Pictures at An variety show (a magnificent transformation for the entire performance, not even Zero Exhibition as interpreted by Emerson, of the play within a play) could have led to a Mostel or Orson Welles. In the end it was 
Lake, and Palmer, the music reflecting call from Ed Sullivan or at least Mike Bergman who guided the production and throughout the production the underlying Douglas if Ed was booked solid. Most im­honed the sharpness of the company. One 
emotions of the scenes. portant of all for Fetters, was Ophelia's does not usually expect such a beautiful and Most of the action centered on Hamlet in 
burial scene in which the improper humor of inspiring production from a Technical this sequence, played by Mark Sakaley, a the grave digger (Fetters) left most rolling Director of the University Theatre. Pretty freshman, who displayed a talent for dance, in the aisles, yet feeling somehow ashamed lights and sets, yes; great theatre, not quite. acting, and mime that was amazing in its to be laughing at such a scene. Mr. Bergman is a truly amazing man in that scope. Each successive scene found Sakaley Nancy Bartoshesky played the perfect he gave us everything an audience could ask called upon to do something new and the compliment to Sakaley's Hamlet and the for <something few directors are capable viewer found himself asking, "He can do two of them gave us the most moving scenes ofl ; a work of termendous power and 
that too?" Mark is a remarkable actor, able of the play. In the first, Hamlet mimes his beauty. 
to convey emotion physically as well as way through a frieze of actors, all stopped in Criticism goes to the Drama Department vocally. The dream sequence of the poses reflecting their characterizations. He as a whole for the brevity of the run and a prologue established the excellence of then re-acts the scene with words, con­call goes out from those of us who saw Sakaley and we were never disappointed as cluding in a deeply moving one-way con-. Hamlet and those who have yet to ex­
the play continued. frontation with the frozen figures of his perience the magic of the theatre present in mother and uncle. Sakaley's portrayal and this production, for more performances. The quality of ensemble acting was found speech sent the creeps up my spine. After a You know, it's nice to have really good 
to be unsurpassed in any performance I strobed exchange scene with the actors theatre around. 


IUSB Folk Life Festival 
The sixth annual Folk Life Festival will be held March 18 and 19 at Indiana University at South Bend, 1825 Northside Blvd. The festival will feature many past favorites in the concerts, workshops, fair, and coffee house. 
The festival draws its talent from all over northern Indiana and southern Michigan, and from as far away as Chicago. 
The Saturday night concert w1h include performers who are becoming a tradition with the festival. It will begin at 8:15p.m. in 
the IUSB auditorium.  
Saturday's  performers  will  be  the  
Caledonia  Kilty  Band,  bag-pipers  and  
dancers;  Bulkanski  Egre, European  folk  

dancers; and Father Charles Hensel, Ap­palachian dulcimer player and singer. 
Also. Debbie Frazier, contemporary folk singer; The Appalachian Opra (formerly the Bluegrass Gentlemen l, Appalachian music and singing; and the Recorder Society, traditional folk music. 
Sunday's concert will begin at 4 p.m., and will include some old-timers and some new acts. 
Heturning for Sunday's concert will be !\like Holmes. a traditional folk singer; the Hubbard Singers, Negro gospel; and the Common People <formerly the Rank and Filel. contemporary folk music. 
Newcomers to the concert will be Don Wrobel. an American Indian dancer; Dan (;illert and Dick Terry, old-time fiddle and banjo; and the Humming Birds. recorder and guitar players. 
Tom Mihail. an employee of WNDU radio, will act as master of ceremonies for the two concerts. 
Tickets for the concerts will be available at the IUSB ticket office in Northside Hall throughout the day on both Saturday and Sunday. Adult tickets are $2 and student tickets are $1. 
A free concert for children will be given at 2 p.m. March 18. Music will be provided by Nancy Eversole. Chris Manion, and Dan (;illert. Barbara Tschbold. story teller, will also participate in the children's concert. 
Contemporary folk music will be provided from 12 to 5 p.m. on both days in the faculty lounge in Northside Hall. The lounge will have a coffee house atmosphere. under the sponsorship of the IUSB Folk Club. 
More than 30 displays will be set up in Northside Hall for the craft fair and food bazaar. Crafts on display will include Folk music workshops will be held on both weaving, wool spinning, glass blowing, and March 18 and 19, beginning at 1 p.m. leather work. Saturday's workshops will include guitar 

Austrian and Croatian pastries, home­playing, American folk dancing, and Ap­made ice cream, and Swedish bread are palachian dulcimer playing. Sunday's among the foods that will be displayed and workshops will include banjo and Ap­
sold. palacian dulcimer playing and European 
Admission to the craft fair and food folk dancing. bazaar is free. The crafts and foods will be The Folk Life Festival is a Student displayed from 12 to 5 p.m. on both days of Government activity, sponsored by the 
the festival. student activities fees. 
the observer 

5 
Mike Lonier 
You 

This is not the typical obscure artist's 
statement. My purpose here is much more 
mundane that that. It is, quite simply, PR. 
You is going to be in the Old Fieldhouse this 
weekend. And after reading a little about it, 
perhaps you will be there too. 
You is a theatre piece, twenty minutes 
from front to back, inside out, beginning to 
end. Although an elaborate projection and 
soun_d system synchronize the photography, 
music, and poetry, it is not a multi-media 
show, at least not in any McLuhanesque 
sense. You does not demonstrate media­
effects; it uses them. It does not relate the 
psychedelic experience. It's the pill. 
The sexual confrontations of a given 
conciousness comprise the scenario of the 
work. The sub-surface fabric is woven with 
threads of reality and illusion. You is the 
title, so pick a place in the scene that seems 
confortable and watch it become un­
bearable. It's all in your mind anyway. 
You: Isis Gallery, Old Fieldhouse, Fri., Sat.. Sun., 8,9, 10 p.m. 


Association Concert to Benefit Education 
"The purpose of a liberal arts education is requirements or even separate categorized humor and music into a very dynamic and to expand to the limit the individual's courses. Instead the student will be con­exciting act. Their mellow sounds bring capacity, and desire, for self-education, for fronted with interrelated knowledge, so he back happy and enjoyable moments in our seeking and finding meaning, truth, and will be able to approach the world and its past. Their songs are reproduced perfectly 
enjoyment in everything he does." problems with a total persnective, not with a in concert for they do not depend on massive 
Social commentators today are claiming segmented or partial vie....,point. No problem studio devices. They are all accomplished education has become a stifling experience can be simply oetmea m terms of historical, musicians who play a variety of in­to which we mercilessly expos.e our young economical, psychological, or sociological struments. The concert will be Saturday people to take part in. Present education perspectives alone. Problems are multi­March 18, in Stepan Center, at 8:00p.m. The stifles creativity, imagination, and genius. complex and must be met in those terms, Association will play two 1 hour sets. This Students are unhappy and frustrated. As and so education should try to transfer will be a blanket concert with the emphasis John Holt explains, "They are bored knowledge as a united whole, not a on everyone just having a good time. While because the things they are given and told t.o segmented schedule of courses. being entertained you will be contributing to do in school are so trivial, so dull, and make The schools that take part in this a worthwhile movement. such limited and narrow demands on the movement will have low student-teacher wide spectrum of their intelligence, ratios, and the teachers will be issued mini­capabilities and talents." Today it seems buses. They will use these buses to bring the 
the real genius, is not a product of students into contact with university education. but a person who has discovered laboratories. museums, parks, and many his own creativity in spite of the seemingly other learning experiences. They will at­endless years of drudgery he has had to tempt to discover and illuminate different endure. students' talents and abilities. Senseless 
Brian Cole. an original member of the tests and examinations and the pressures Association said he attended college for one that accompany them will be forgotten. year. which. in his terms, "wasn't long Education should and _can be 16years of joy·, enough time to hurt me." How many enlightenment, and happiness.students feel this way? 
In the midst of this absurdity there have As ~·as mentioned this program is in the arisen some people who have tried to give expenmental basis and due to this fact it is back meaning and worth to education, in great need of funds and support. When we among these are Paul Goodman. A.S. Neill, contacted the Association and explained the Erich Fromm. Ashley Mantaqu. and others. nature of the concert. they were more then 
Their purpose is to give love. trust. and co-operative in their positive response. understanding to young people. They were pleased that they could help in There is now in Chicago a movement in the collecting or urgently needed funds. e:perimental education that is trying to .The_ Association originated in 1965, and g1w a true sense of relevance to education. smce 1ts conception has performed over 700 The term given to this new movement is concerts before over 5 millionn people. "'interdisciplinary education." The main They have received 7 gold records and 6 goal is to make the whole learning process grammy nominations. They were voted the part of one's life riot just the socially ac­best pop rock group of 1967 and received the ceptable thing to do. Education can be the foreign press award in 1970 for the best song active and dynamic process that changes m a film. "Goodbye. Columbus." Six of the the learner. but it must involve interaction se~·~n members of the group today are between the learner and his total en­ongmal members of the Association. If you ,·ironment. This is what "interdisciplinary have seen them in concert. or have heard 
education" will attempt to accomplish. about them. you'll know they put on one of There will be no such thing as course the best concert shows around. They mix 




British blamed for Ulster riots 


by Ht•rnard Wt'inraub 
the safety of homes and lives."
(cl 1972 New York Times 
Standing before Lord Widgery, London, March 16 -The British the Lord Chief Justice of England, 
army was accused today of who is conducting the inquiry, 
seeking to provoke Roman McSparran said: "A crucial issue 
C'atholics in Londonderry on Jan. is whether the army anticipated, 
30 in an attempt to shatter the or should have anticipated, that 
Irish Hepublican Army there. the entry of troops into the Catholic The charge was made by James area was likely to get a hostile 
D. McSparran, attorney for the reaction. families of 12 of the 13 men who "If they did anticipate it my were killed in Londonderry on Jan. conclusion is absolutely 30 when paratroopers opened fire 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUIUIIIIIUIIIIIIUUIIII 
on a mass civil rights demon­A coalition of Chicago peacestration. 
groups today announced their"Our submission is that the sponsorship Berrigan
whole arrest operation was, from of a bus 
brigade to Harrisburg, Pa., onits nature and the manner of its Easter weekend.
execution, designed and conceived 
At least 10 busloads ofto make it inevitable that death C'hicagoans are expected to joinand serious injury to the civilian the brigade effort which will hopepopulation would result," to have Americans from more thanMcSparran said. He was ad­50 cities converging on Harrisburgdressing an official British inquiry in support of the seven persons onthat moved from coleraine in trial there on Federal charges ofNorthern Ireland to London today conspiracy.
for the final speeches from lawyers representing the army and the More information on the 
relatives of the dead. pilgrimage by car and the bus "The soldiers used excessive brigade can be obtained from 
force and brutality," he went on. Alana Smart at 493-6416 or Sylvia 
"There was a total indifference to 
Kushner at 922-6578. 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Paris talks center on POW issue 
by John L. Hess 
(c) 1972 New York Times News Service 

Paris, March 16--The United States proposed to the Vietnamese Communists today that prisoner-of-war camps be opened to international inspection "in return for an undertaking by both sides to refrain from efforts to liberate prisoners from the locations visited." 
Without responding directly, the other side called the proposal an evasion of the fundamental issue. Nguyen Thanh Le. the North Vietnamese spokesman, said that if the Nixon administration agreed to the two main points of their peace plan, "all the American troops, prisoners or not, can certainly be back in the United States before Easter." 
Leaving the 146th session of the Paris conference, ambassador William J. Porter summarized it as "more of the same." 
It was the first full session since Feb. 10. after that meeting, Porter and Saigon's ambassador, Pham Dang Lam, then called off the next two meetings, citing the "climate" of an antiwar conference in Versailles. The communists walked out of the Feb. 24 session in protest at the escalation of American air raids on North Vietnam, and Porter and Lam cancelled the next two. 
Despite harsh mutual charges of violations of the agreement underlying the conference, both sides agreed to meet again next Thursday. It was the only point of accord. 
Porter raised the prisoner question in his opening remarks, reading President Nixon's proclamation of a National Week of Concern for Prisoners of War Missing in Action, beginning next week. 
Later the ambassador renewed a series of demands for treatment of prisoners in accord with the Geneva convention, including inspection by the International Hed Cross or another impartial party. He repeated that the prisoners could be seen elsewhere than in their camps, then added the new alternative, that both sides pledge to refrain from raiding camps so inspected. 
Stephen Ledogar, the American Press spokesr.:~an, explained to a sparsely attended news briefing that both sides had previously made rescue efforts, and that the communists had cited this problem in the past as a reason for refusing inspection. Today, the communists insisted that their prisoners were well-treated and would be sent home promptly if a peace agreement were reached. , 
With Xuan Thuy reported ill, Nguyen Minh Vy headed the Hanoi delegation. Le quoted him as describing Porter's proposal on prisoners as "a hypocritical maneuver that fizzled." 
"In the course of a private meeting we had with Mr. Kissinger in July, 1971," Le continued, "Mr. Kissinger declared this: 'Don't think we are negotiating with you to settle the war only because of the prisoners'--which shows that the Nixon administration doesn't care about the prisoners." 
Almost offhandedly. Le added that all Americans, including the prisoners. could be home by Easter if Washington agreed to the basic two points of the Communist Peace Plan. The first calls for withdrawal of American troops and war materials and the relase of prisoners. the second for the replacement of the Thieu regime in Saigon and negotiations toward a coalition government. 
The interval proposed for the prisoner release, less than 16 days. was by far the shortest yet specified at the conference. but Ledogar dismissed it as "the same sort 'Of thing we heard when Christmas was ap­proaching." 
irresistable that they were Gibbens, said: "I find it "I daresay most soldiers would 
prepared to provoke an armed depressing listening to my friend prefer to be at home rather than conflict where thousands of people because it is clear that the people living under the shadow of death were present." he represents in the Bogside are from a sniper's bullet and having"This is a very serious suffering from what is one of the to submit to the daily humiliation 
allegation," McSparran said. gravest troubles in Northern of obscene abuse, sioning and "Why should any commander take Ireland nowadays -the refusal to bombing."such a radical course of action?" believe that anyone is honestly Gibbens said: "How anyone with 
"There wer a number of trying to do his duty. any regard for the truth can now 
possibilities," he said. "The action ."It is not the British army who suggest that General Ford <Maj.could deal a severe blow to the commit willful murder of Gen. Gen. Robert Ford, Com­
I.R.A. for I.R.A. units would citizens," he said. "The army is mander of land forces in Ulster) or 
inevitably suffer heavy losses ... " fighting the I.R.A. and it is the his subordinate officers were After McSparran's speech, the I.R.A. who choose to fight in the guilty of a wicked plan to murder counsel for the army, E. Brian populated areas. civilians I don't know... " 


~(~-Duke Ellington 
April 6th Stepan Center 8:30pm 
Tickets at S. U. Ticket Office 
$4.00 reserved $3.00 general admission 
( Performing Arts Patrons free! 
THE CHALLENGE. 
-., 

In brewing Bud®, our choice is to go all the way. We hope beer matters enough to you that you too will go all the way ... with Budweiser. 
WHEN YOU SAY 
Budweiser. 
YOU'VE SAID IT ALL! 
MHEUSER-BUSCH. l'lC • ST LOtJIS 

the observer 

Pool tournament a success 
The Notre Dame Billiard In the third place, Gary Ulstad, a Tournament has been completed. senior in Business Administration After six weeks of sweat and skill and Walsh Hall is the winner. and some forty men falling to the From the Law School, a secon­talents of our preprofessionals, the year man, Jim Mulvoy, an off­poolroom proudly announces the campus student takes second winners. place. 
Kavanaugh moves to Yale as a visiting professor 
l<'r. Aidan Kavanagh. O.S.B., a campus theologian, has been appointed to a special visiting professorship in the Yale and Berkeley Divinity Schools. 
Fr. Kavanagh will become a \'isiting professor of the Stetson Fund of the Berkeley School, and will be there from next September to January. 1973. He will be on leave from Notre Dame. where he directs the Department of Theology's graduate program in liturgy. 
"His presence as a foremost scholar of liturgics," said Dean C'olin Williams of the Yale Divinity 
Sweeney's Shamrock says Happy St. Patrick78 
Day. lfyoucan't get in the 17th, we're sorry, but we'll have Green Beer the 18th also. 
School. " symbolizes the deep concern for worship that Berkeley b_rou~~t into the merger with 'I ale. 
The Berkeley Divinity School, an Episcopal seminary. merged with the Yale Divinity School, an in­IE.>rdenominatior.al school, in 1971 under the aegis of the University. 

This year's top man, a student with a sharp eye and knowledge of billiard playing is Dave McDon­nell. Dave is an off-campus student in his senior year in the College of Arts and Letters. 
The Poolroom wishes to express its joy that so many entered the contest and to thank them for it was their interest which kept the tournament going with few hand­ups. The news information wasn't too great but a good number of students watched the semi-finals and final match. 
raekin' em up! 
Six weeks of hard work paid off for Gary Ulstad, Jim Mulvoy and Dave McDonnell, billiard tourney winners. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ec­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box 
Q,  Notre Dame,  Indiana  46556,  
Second class postage paid.  Notre  
Dame, Ind.  46556.  

VO-LUNTEE~! 
(FRONTIER A POSTULATE) needs teachers, tradesmen, office And kitchen help, nurses. One thousand have shared since 1956. Long hours, hard work, no pay. (Room and board plus $25 month.) Accept challenge of missionary diocese: Bring faith and love; find hope, fulfillment. Write today. Bishop Fergus O'Grady, 
O.M I. 778 College Road, Prince George, B.C., Canada 
Now ROMA presentingthe incredible "FIFTH AMENDMENT" Weds., Fri., Sat., for your dancing pleasure don't miss them! 
Large T-Bone only $2.95 
deliveries phone 234-3258 
ay hours from 4-7 daily-all drinks40c 
o ye 

of little faith. 
Despite skeptic Father Toohey, Prime Mover Kersten proves hiw worthiness to the office by walking across St. Joe's Lake. 
(Exclusive photo by Jim Hunt) 

HELP WANTED 
NATIONAL PARKS, PRIVATE CAMPS, GUEST RANCHES, ANO BEACH RESORTS. Need college students (giJys & gals) for next sum­mer's season (1972). Applicants must apply early. For free informa­tion send self-addressed stamped envelope to Opportunity Research, Dept. SJO, Century Bldg., Polson, MT 59860. 
Clothes and things 
Men's Boutique 



"On the Mall" • McKinley Town & Country Shopping Center-Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 2511­7:l3!i 



FRANKIE'S 
EVERYDAY DINNER 
SPECIALS -Ocean Perch $1.25 -1 0 oz. Rib-Eye Steak -1f2 Broasted Chicken  $1.50 $1.5  
Includes Tureen Soup, Salad,  

Bread, Butter And Coffee Planning a Party? Frankie's has Special Rates for Student Parties! 

ST. PATRICK'S DAY SPECIAL 
ND-SMC STUDENTS 
I.D. REQUIRED 
II:30 am -2:00pm 
$1.25 PITCHER 
6 pm • closing-


LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
LARGE PIZZA $2.50 PITCHER $1.25 
TOAST TO THE IRISH 

Open Weekdays 11 a.m. -12 p.m. 


LAUREL &HARDY ,
PIZZA PALACE 
4ti10Western Ave. Belleville Shoppintt &"enter 
Phone 289-7983 


8 the observer  
world  
briefs  
(cl 1!172 New York Times  
!IIIIIIHllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll  
Intemat'l Festival  
slated Saturday  
at O'Laughlin  
by Bub l.nnl-(  
The "international focal point of  
the year" -the lntl'rnational  
l<'estival -will take place this  
Saturday night at !I p.m. in  
()'Laughlin Auditorium at SMC',  
according to master of ceremonies  
Jim O'Sulivan.  
The festival will feature "exotic  
Indian dancers, the nonchalance of  
a Chinese fashion parade  
(medeival costumes l, a  
mysterious Belgian magician,"  
and other acts representing  
twenty different countries.  
O'Sulivan stressed that the  
festival, which will be admission  
free. is "our way of saying thanks  
to Notre Dame, St. Mary's, and  
I  Michiana communities for the  
l....  hospitality we have received here."  
"There is an aura of poignancy  
~  surrounding those foreign students  
~  graduating. Many are returning to  
I  their native countries. This is their last formal chance of saying  
thanks," he said.  
Dr. Kwait, the national  
representative of Rotary In­ 
ternational. will be guest speaker.  
It is also hoped that Mayor Jerry  
Miller of South Bend will open the  
proceedings.  
muuumulllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll  


MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15pm Sat. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 9:30am Sun. Fr. J. Bernard Clark, C.S.C. 
10:45 am Sun. Fr. Aidan Kavanagh, O.S.B. 
12:45 pm Sun. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 
Vespers: 4:30 pm -Our Lady's Chapel 
CAC Cmema 72 presents -­
j 
A Fellini Festival 
JULIET OF THE SPIRITS 
Fri., March 17 7 and 9:30pm 
Engineering Auditorium Admission $1.00 Cinema '72 patrons free-
Friday, March 17, 1972 
New York -A Constitutional amendment barring busing to achieve school integration was proposed to the White HousP two years ago by William H. Rehnquist, then a Justice Department official and now a Supreme Court justice, it was learned. The proposal was accompanied by a strong defense of such an action. 
Washington-A top International Telephone and Telegraph Cor­poration offical told a Senate Committee that "many sacks" of papers were destroyed the day after ITT found out that Jack Anderson had a memorandum written by Dita D. Beard, an ITT lobbyist. The official said the papers were shredded to avoid "unwarranted embarrassment" to the people mentioned in them. 
.Jerusalem -Premi~r Golda Meir of israel, reacting officially to Kin~ Hussein's proposal to divide Jordan into autonomous areas, accused the King of pretension and refusing to recognize realities or to admit the need to make peace with Israel. One of the autonomous areas in the Jor­danian King's proposal is the West Bank of the Jordan River, an area now occupied by Israel. 
Washington-The Commission on Population Growth and the American Future, in its second report, formally reommmended to the President and Congress that all states follow New York's lead and permit 
doctors to perform abortions at the patient's request. The Commission 
also proposed that abortion services be funded by the Government and 
covered by health insurance. 
Ryan to consider Alumni proposals 
Brother Kiernan Ryan C.S.C., revealed last night that he was seriously considering the proposals forwarded by Alumni President Butch Ward last week .. These suggestions included a seven dollar increase in tuition instead of fines on specific ap­pliances. Brother Ryan siad he was waiting for HPC Ad reactions from Hall presidents before meeting wilh the HPC Ad Hoc Appliance Committtee after spring break. 
The cost of rewiring one hall is placed at 38 to 40 thousand dollars. In the past five years nine halls have been rewired at a cost of 
200 lovable 
NURSES 
Memorial Hospital 

MIXER 
St. Pat's Day 
"Stranger's, Friends & Brother's" playing 
8-12:00 pm 
75 cents Admission Refreshments 120 W. Navarre Near to Sweeney's 
$260,000 while $50,000 in immediate rewmng are: ll The imposed requiring them to pay for 
refrigerator fines have been 
university doesn't have enough rewiring that is to benefit students collecged. "The problem," said money for this expenditure. 2) The for many years into the future. Brother Ryan "is not a simple 
residence halls are never com-The problem which Brother Ryanblack and white issue It involves pletely unoccupied. Thus only a few faces is not only raising the money economic, health, insurance and may be open for work each sum­
but deterring students from using
safety factors." mer. 
the electricity which causes Limitations which prevent Many students object to fines complications in the meantime. 


on campus today 
4:30 . meeting, mock convention. ohio delegation, Iafortune fiesta lounge. 
6:00, 8:30, 11:00 -film, bonnie and clyde, washington hall. 
7:00 meeting, mock convention, texas 
delegation, Ia fortune amp hi theatre. 7:00, 9:00, II: 00-film, 1984, badin vintage cinema. 
7:00 -meeting, mock convention, indiana delegation, meditation room, tirsttloor grace hall. 
7:00, 9:30-film, juliet of the spirits, engineering audi tori urn. 
8:00 
· tri-media production, you, isis gallery, tie ld house. 

8:00 
& 10:00-film, flash gordon conquers the universe, Iafortune ballroom. 


7:30-tennis, rosemary casals vs billie jean king, ace. 
9: 00 music, chapped lips, edge city. saturday 6:00, 8:30, 11:00 -film, bonnie and clyde, washington hall. 
7:00, 9:00, II: 00-film, 1984, badin vintage cinema. 8:00-concert, the association, stepan center. 
8: 00 festiva I, internationa I festiva I, o'laughlin auditorium. 
8:00-lecture, don luce and the doan hong hai, first unitarian church, 1')1. e. north shore. 
8:00 -tri-media production, you, isis gallery, tie ld house. 

Strohs...From one beer lover to another. .. " 
Friday, March 17, 1972 the observer 


Letters • • • 
. • . on basketball players, managing editors, and pragmatism 
you spoke of'? Tom, I'm afraid that  himself is to deny himself and  UlllllllllllllllllllllllliiUJHHH!IIII!Il!lllfffffffffl  
Nice Going, Tom...  too many people are overly­ A Bit on  Pragmatism  choose to follow Christ above all  
concerned with that degree and  other things to do or be in life.  

Editor: 
It is extremely reassuring to see Tom O'Mara, the epitome of the "Notre Dame man" (bright, athletically talented), look beyond the glitter of the golden dome and decide that there is indeed much more to life than what one finds at Notre Dame. Maybe his decision will shake our self-assured ad­ministration into making some serious reappraisals of the student experience at Notre Dame. 
Today's student (and student­athlete) needs more than a spoon­fed "Christian" education. He needs the opportunity to meaningfully participate in the making of decisions that ultimately affect iim, the chance to question and to experience a variety of stimuli and ways of thinking. 
The college years should be a time to grow; and if a student finds himself stagnating <and it's easy to do at Notre Darnel. he should go to a campus where life can be more meaningful and stimulating.Good luck at Berkeley Mr. O'Mara. You are the rare Notre Dame man who didn't get blinded by the glittering gold. Sincerely, David A. DeMuro 
... And Good Luck 
The following is an open letter tu Tom O'Mara. -ed. 
Dear Tom: Needless to say, I was quite surprised to read about your decision to transfer, but after a second and third reading of the article published in The Observer I would hope that these comments be somehow useful. For more people than you, Tom, Notre Dame is something less than an intellectual and academic oasis. May students here repeat, "just wait until I get out of here," as if they had been sentenced to four years at hard labor by a federal judge. That "let's get it over with" exists here at Notre Dame more than you '11 probably see anywhere else. I agree with you that living only for the future is very detrimental not only to the individual's present, but his friends as well. Is it right to just attend classes and take tests and make practice sessions'? And what about that disillusionment 
high-paying job to even think about a humaniustic personal growth. 
Life here at Notre Dame is not what we are led to believe. The conditions prevailing at visit-the ­Golden-Dome-time are make believe. The pressures put on an incoming Freshman is enough to send anyone to the men with the white suits. A troubled Freshman is told how glamourous his future will be if he only "sticks it out." Why isn't any of that mentioned to a prospective student'? Tom, your points are well taken--you are blessed with a courage to speak out and act as only few individuals are. 
Whether or not you will find reality at Berkeley I don't know. What you are looking for and the way you are looking for it should never be taken lightly. I hope that your life ends in this same search-­it is a quest well worth taking. 
Finally, I would like to thank you for your participation in Notre Dame this past season. It was a pleasure to watch you make the game of basketball look easy. I hope that other students will learn from your experiences--I know that I have. 
Very sincerely yours, 
Daniel Rock 330 Morrissey 
Hickey Doesn't Need Observer 
Editor: 

On March 8 you published a letter from your managing editor in which he supported my letter of March 6 where I implied that it is naive and farcical for Ann Therese Darin to go around calling Notre Dame and St. Mary-s students the "finest and smartest" Catholics in the country. 
It should be clear from previously published letters that I do not want, nor do I need, the OBSERVER's endorsements of my viewpoints. Furthermore, opinions of the editors should be "confined" to all the parts of the newspaper besidess the Letters to the Editor column. If the editors continue to pollute this column with garbage by writing letters to themselves, readers might get the mistaken notion that there are other idiots on campus besides the OBSERVER staff. 
Sincerely, John W.N. Hickey 

HOURS, MON • TOES • TKUI. • FRI 
9 AM 5:30PM WED • SAT 9 AM 12 NOON COMPLETE SI'EICTACLE

RoGERS 
SE'RVICE ALL f-)·E OR.'S 
PllfSCRJPTIONS HONOREr

Optical 
Cal/ 

289-7809

ROGER ATWELL • OWNER 
concert 
8 p.m. March 18 4 p.m. March 19 tickets available in 
JUSB ticket office 

craft fair 
12-5 p.m. March 18 & 19 in Northside Hall 30 displays of folkcraft & international foods 

workshops 
folk music and dancing will be held Saturday beginning at 1 p.m. 
Editor, The Sadness of Pragmatism: The Grass Speaks 
Many people believe that in the face of a pragmatic solution to a question they nave no free will, or rather that pragmatism is the ultimate value they must choose. Witness the grass. How many souls guiltily trample the grass and disfigure the campus thinking -I 
know I'm destroying the grass but I've got to do it because I'd be a fool to take the long way because it's slower and less efficient. This person is sad instide because he is not listening to the call of freedom within himself. He is denying his freedom, unless of course he absolutely bieves that in this case efficiency is better than beauty. e is dying inside and killing joy because he is suppressing the source of joy, living the truth in himself. 
Many of us never listen to our hearts. Instead, we believe in profit over mercy and justice, in pride over honesty and in pleasure over interior peace and self respect. Many believe that if there is a chance for them to sexually exploit someone without any fear of danger to self that they have to, that they have no choice ­otherwise they'd be fools because pleasure is better than interior peace. This person becomes very sad because he is strangling and suffocating the inner voice calling him to freedom. And the greatest affirmation one can make of 
Then you will be happy, not like the sad rich young man who chose wealth over Christ. And then you can see the grass as your sister as St. Francis would, and love. her for being herself before God. 
Sincerely, 
Thomas Uebbing 233 Farley 
Special Notica: "Straw Dogs" unlaashas such dramatic Intensity that this theatre Is scheduling a S-mlnute lnterve/ between all performances. 
Lt'tters to the Editor can be accepted only if they are typed. They can be sent to the Observer. Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana, 46556, or brought to the Observer office in the La Fortune Student 
('enter. 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJI IIIJIIIIIII IllIIIIII IIIJII II II IIIIIIIIIIII 
-Feature Times­1:45 3:45 5:45 7:45 and 9:45 

ABC PICTURES CORP presents 
DUSTIN HDIFFMAN 
" SAM PECKINPAffS 
''STRA\N 
DCGIS.. 
COLOR[!!}~ 
ACADEMY AWARD NOMINEE BEST ORIGINAL DRAMATIC SCORE 

10 the observer 








Happenings • • • 
Don Luce to Speak 
The man who discovered the "Tiger Cages" in a South Viet­namese prison, Don Luce, will speak at the Unitarian Church in South Bend Saturday night at 8 o'clock. 
Luce, a 37 year-old agricultural economist. will also be bringing an exhibit on the peoples and cultures of Indochina. The exhibit will be on the campus of Indiana University at South Bend on Monday from 9 to 5. 
Luce has spent the last twelve years in Vietnam. Until 1967 he was Director of International Voluntary Services, a non-profit organization with international programs in agriculture and education. He has also been a researcher and journalist in Vietnam working under church sponsorship. 
An outspoken critic of the war, he was asked to leave the country by the Saigon Government i:1 May l!l71. 
lie has spoken and written ex­tensively on Vietnam, and has co­authored a book, Vietnam: The l 'nht•anl \'oict•s. 
Heverand Scholefield of the 
Unitarian Church in South Bend 
commented that he "hopes for a 
good turnout from the students 
and faculty of Notre Dame. 
Catholic Schools in Trouble 
If present enrollment declines 
eontinue, the nation's nonpublic 
primary and secondary schools, of 
which ll:l per cent are Catholic, will 
lose more than half their current 
stud(•nts by 1980, creating even 
greater financial problems for our 
largest cities. 
This is one conclusion of a 660­
page report. "Economic Problems 
of Nonpublic Schools," completed 
by the University of Notre Dame's 
Office of Educational Research 
(0f<:H l at the request of the 
President's Commission on School 
Finance. 
The report also noted that if the 
entire nonpublic system, which 
now enrolls some five million 
students. were to cease to exist, the 
additional educational costs to 
taxpayers would be $1.25 billion 
annually with seven of the nation's 
largest industrial states bearing 
almost three-fourths of the cost. 
Dr. !<'rank J. Fahey, director of 
o!<:H. Dr. Hichard H. Metzcus, 
assistant professor of education, 
and a staff of Notre Dame 
economists and reasearchers, did 
the t>ight-month study, which in­
dudes a careful analysis of 
pnrollmt'nt declines and nonpublic 
school dosings between 191i7 and 
1!l70. 
"Catholics generally perceive 
Catholic schools superior to public 
schools in terms of religious in­struction, and personal and social development," the researchers wrote. They see public schools superior in academic offerings, efficiency, practicality and con­venience." 
"As the Catholic population has outgrown its immigrant status it has prospered," the survey con­tinues. "In fact, Catholics are curretnly 'out-achieving' Protestants in terms of education, occupation and income. Young, educated, at least middle-income, suburban Catholics aspire to a quality education for their children. Quality for these Catholics who are beyond the urban area is found in public schools." 
The Notre Dame research team 
noted that costs inherited by public 
school systems where nonpublic 
schools cease to exist would be 
centered mainly in the large in­
dustrial states of New York, 
Illinois. Michigan, New Jersey, 
Pennsylvania, Ohio and California. 
More than 73 per cent of the $1.2 
billion cost would be borne by 
taxpayers in these states. Over the 
nation the financially pressed 
cities would be asked to absorb 59 
per cent of the transfer costs; 
suburbs. 23 percent, and rural 
areas. 17 per cent. 

Cavanaugh Elections 
Cavanaugh Hall elections held 
yesterday resulted in run-offs in 
the presidential and 
vice-presidential races and clear­
cut victories for Kevin Casey and 
Joe Wilkowski in the Treasurer 
and Secretary contests. 
In the presidential election, Paul Sponsored Tobin polled 79 votes to Denny Endowment for 
CAC presents 
Dclhan's 45 to made the run-offs. Delhan nose out Jim Bullock who received 42 votes. 
Mike Cavanaugh's 66 votes pushed him to a good margin over second place finisher Steve DeCourcey But DeCourcey polled 44 votes, enough to cause a run-off. 
Casey pulled 105 of a possible 182 votes to lead him to his victory over Gary Dadaian. Wilkowski, a sophomore from Detroit, received a mandate from the Cavanaugh !!all populace with 143 votes to Nelson Smith's 33. 
WSND-FM: International Hour 
This Sunday afternoon WSND­FM will present the International !lour featuring Olivier Courturier and a discussion on France. The program will be on at 4:00. 
Courturier will discuss the social aspects of life in France­government in social life, education, crime, and the political system. 
Program Producer Jim 0 'Sullivan commented that "the nature of interface between the 
foreign student and his American 
host is directly related to the ex­
tent with which the native 
American is familiar with the 
student's country." 

Humanities Conference 
Notre Dame will host a planning 
conference sponsored by the 
Indiana Committee for the 
Humanities. Delegates from 
several cities in the northern area 
of the state will attend the meeting 
sessions in the Center for Con­
tinuing Education beginning 
Saturday at II o'clock. by the National 
the Humanities, 


on campus 
the Notre Dame program is designed to build a framework where academic humanists are brought into discussions of current problems involving the general public. Dr. Robert E. Burns, associate professor of history, will serve as chairman of the con­ference. 
ObJectives of the state-based program include the development of a formal or informal structure capable of defining a broadly-based public program m the humanities and of regranting funds to implement the program. Also. to bring academic humanists into meaningful dialogue with the general adult public on real problems of contemporary public concern. and to create new human and financial resources for public activities in the humanities through wide involvement of state and community organizations and institutions in their support. 
Last Grasp presents 
The Great White Hope 
starring James Earl Jones Sat. 3:30, 7, 9 
The Shameless Old Lady 
Award winning film, based on a story by Bertolt Brecht Sun. 2,8 
Carroll Hall 75c or subscription 

YUL RICHARD LEONARD 

TODAY 
Richard Burton 
..Villain" 
[!!] MGMC 

This ad plus $1.00 ad­mits 1 student Sun. thru Thurs. Void April 1st, '72 




"GETTING STRAIGHT" 
with Elliot Gould and Candice Bergen 
Sunday & Monday, March 19 & 20 8 & 10 p1n Ad~nission $1.25 
benefit of Sophomore Literary Festival 

GROUPS OF ALL TIME 


THE ASSOCIATION 
BUY YOUR  
~  TICKETS NOW! ON SALE AT THE DOOR'-----------------------------­ 
I  

MARCH 18 
STEPAN CENTER 
8:00 pm $3.50 

Friday, March 17, 1972 the observer 1 1 

Winning is ND netmen' s racket 
by Eric Kinkopf 
The "Tiger" is back, and he and his kids are roarin' and ready to go, as the Notre Dame tennis team opens its 1972 season this weekend as the hosts of the second annual Irish Invitational Tournament. 
The "Tiger" is head coach Tom Fallon, and his kids are a gaggle of raw potential and polished skill, headed by seniors Buster Brown, John Allare, and Mike Reilly. 
Coming off a lofty mark of 26-5 in 1971, including the Central Collegiate crown, and returning five of six starting singles players, the Irish racgueteers are looking forward to a duplicate per­fo~mance of last year this spring, with perhaps a few changes-like reversing those five losses. 
The ND netmen are led by senior co-captain Buster Brown, a blond­headed whip-lash from Florida. Buster will be making it three years in a row at the top spot this season, and is coming off a junior year in which he posted a 21-9 mark against the toughest collegiate players in the country. 
The number two seed has gone to 
lefty John Allare, who will have a 
heavy gep to fill, left by the 
graduation of last year's captain, 
steady Bernie LeSage. Allare 
compiled a 26-4 record playing in 
the number three spot last year. 
Allare will also be teaming up 
with Brown as the number one ND 
doubles duo. The Brown-Allare 
combo netted a 19-5 doubles mark 
last year. 
Another southpaw, Mike "Riles" 
Reilly will be competing for the 
number two spot with Allare, 
although Mike will be spotted third 
for the Saturday Invitational. 
Reilly, in control and at times 
out of control of one of the most 
blistering serves in the college 
ranks, ended up with a 15-14ledger 
while playing in the number two 
spot last year. 
Right now it looks as though 
Brandon Walsh will be filling in at 
the number four position. The 
heady soph from Jamaica, 
currently the top-ranked player in 
his native country, is expected to 
handle opposing number four men 
with ease. 
Hob Schefter. a junior who 
lettered at the number six position 
last spring has been moved up in 
the line-up to the fifth spot. 
Schefter compiled a 20-9 mark last 
season as the ND anchorman. 
The battle for the last spot in the 
Irish starting six has been tem­
porarily won by freshman and 
native Californian Chris Kane. 
The frosh prospect, listed among 
the top five nationally in junior 
doubles last year, rates a shade 
ahead of another freshman, John 
Carrico. in coach Fallon's weekly 
rankings. 
Carrico. from Lake Forest, 
Illinois is momentarily down, but 
definitely not out of the overall 
plans of coach Fallon. 
The 1972 tennis team can also 
boast of good overall depth, having 
both last year's top junior varsity 
player. Dick Murray, and senior 
Greg Heid waiting in the wings. 
Last year. the racqueteers en­
joyed a very good season, and 
coach Fallon sees no reason why 
things should be any different this 
year. 
"Last year we had a good 
season. and this year we should be 
a little bit better. We have three seniors starting, and they should week long trip to Mexico City t0 be improved over last season. And compete with the top collegiale we have a couple freshmen that and amateur netmen in Mexico look pretty fair. We should be at After the Easter fiesta south of least as good as last year, and the border, the team will return t0 hopefully better." the Convo and ready themselves 
The Irish begin their '72 slate for the steady onslaught of Big Ten this Saturday, entertaining Purdue teams, and the more traditionaI '"lrl ne Paul before leaving for a Irish opponents. 
Fencers host Wayne State 
by Joe Wilkowski Four years ago, the Irish fresh­man fencing team was just like ~ny ?ther, very little fencing talent m fair to good high school athletes. That team has blossomed into one of the best senior classes at du Lac, and that senior class is planning to end their varsity careers with a flourish against unbeaten Wayne State University here at Notre Dame. Six starters lead the list of four­year men, and much of the depth that has marked Notre Dame fencing is also due to seniors. Ron Sollitto, Matt Fruzynski and Joe Pauwels, in sabre, Tim Taylor and Chuck Harkness in epee and foilman Warren Yau hav~ con­tributed greatly to the team's success in starting roles throughout the year. In addition North Carey (17-5) in epee and Jim Froes s, (12-4), in foil, 'have provided needed depth and in­centive for ths starting three in their weapons. _Sollitto and Fruzynski have been ripping their sabre opponents at a record pace, and their efforts give them a good chance to break Doug Daher's mark for victories in a season. They have provided the best 1-2 punch in Irish fencing 
history,  with  79  wins  between  
them.  
In  addition  to  a  40-5  season  

Sollitto has placed sixth in th~ Great Lakes Tournament and earned a place in the NCAA championships. Fruzynski has rolled up a 39-6 record, good enough to place him second on the 


Ruggers host Wolverines 
Notre Dame's A and B rugby teams will be hosting the Wolverines of the University of Michigan today at 2:00 P.M. behind Stepan Center. 
The Michigan club, composed mostly of graduate students, is always a potent threat and is sure to be some of the toughest com­petition the Irish ruggers will see this season. 

all-time sabre list, but his true worth. has been in a teaching capacity. He has been in­strumental in the development of 
the younger fencers, notably next year's captain, Dan Mulligan. Pauwels has had a good year as the 
third sabreman. He hasn't fenced much of late in order that the underclassmen earn some meet experience, but his 12-12 record speaks well of the contribution that 
he has made to the team. 
Taylor and Harkness have provided steady leadership and consistent performance for the epee team all season. Harkness has fenced to a 32-8 record, and his stellar performance in the Great Lakes tournament. going 14-3 against the best in the midwest earned for him a third-place and the right to seek further honors at the NCAA's. He has moved up to the fifth position on the all-time epee list, and has also moved into the top ten of all-time Irish fencers. 
Taylor, fencing at a 32-8 clip and also serving a freshman fencing coach, has been a tremendous asset to the team this year. He ends his fencing career with 69 victories and only 26 defeats. 
Yau has fenced well all year in foil, racking up an 18-13 win slate. He has been one of the most ex­citing fencers here at Notre Dame utilizing his quickness t~ penetrate an opponent's defense. 
The fencers are going to have a tough match for their going away present. Wayne State University has a great claim to Midwest supremacy. It gave the University of Detroit its only defeat and placed second in the Great Lakes tournament 18 points in front of the Irish. They feature two out­standing performers in Pete Milazzo, an all-American in foil and thidr-place finisher in the Great Lakes tourney. And Steve Danosi, the 19-and-under cham­pion of the United States in sabre. Steve also finished first at Great Lakes in his weapon. 
Notre Dame will try to spoil the Tartan's perfect record Saturday at 1:30 in the auxiliary gym of the ACC. 

2-BEST SONG 

\PHONE 288-8488
3-BEST EDITING 

IFOR TIMES 
4-BEST SCORE! 

EDGE CITY 
(SMC COFFEEHOUSE) presents 



CHAPPED LIPS 
Friday,  Admission  
March 17  $1.00  
9:00-12:30  

CLASSIFIED ADS 
LOST AND FOUND 
~­
Lost: ND Food Coupon Book. Call Pat 232~9118. 
-~ 
Lost Keys on long chain. Generous reward. Help! Call 8320. 
Lost: Dental Retainer (braces). Call 8052. 
Lost: Span ish textbook in Nieuwland. If found call Barry, 7747. 
-
Lost: Brown sweater left in 217 O'Shag, Tues. 14. Call Bob 3339. 
RIDES 
DRIVING SOUTH?? People need ride(sJ to Baton Rouge~New Orleans area, for break. Call Rick 8257. 
Need ride to N.Y.C. or Conn. Can leave anytime on or after 23rd. Call Paul 8276. 
Need ride to New Orleans for break. Call Chris 8659. 
Need ride to Davenport, Iowa, 1-80 west. Call 8423. 
Need ride to Syracuse area March 
22. Call Mary 5124. 
Need ride to NYC, Phil., or Wash. D.C. Mar. 18. 8426. 
Need ride to Florida for spring break. Call Mary Ann 4552. 
Need ride to Detroit and or back for Easter. Call Roger 1588. 
NEED RIDE TO D.C. WED., MARCH 22. WILL PAY. CALL TOM 1409. 
NEED RIDE TO O'HARE ON MON. OR TUES. CALL 3381. 
NEED RIDE TO ST. LOUIS FOR BREAK~ DENNIS 1374. 
Desperately need ride to Cincinati or vicinity this weekend·-Piease call Anne, 5107. 
Ride needed to Mass. area for break. Ca II Sean 1402. 
Wanted: Two riders to Florida. Phone 233-3893. 
Need ride to Chicago. Saturday March 18. Call Jean 5104. 
RIDE wanted to E. Mass. or anywhere close. Will pay. Call John 1729. 
Need Ride-N.Y.C. Leave Mon or later. Expenses~ Plus. 8691. Will take anything close. Please! 
Need ride to Milwaukee vicinity. Leave March 22. Will share ex­penses. Call Rick Darnell 7747. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: '67 Honda 305. $400. Call George 8327. 
-
Handsome Leather BELTS. Made on campus. On display at Tony's Shoe Shop behind Adm. Bldg. 
Golf"Cart for sale or rent. Call Jim 8906. 
Two sets speakers. Utah; Dynaco; also cameras, en­cyclopedias. Call 1678. 
Ride needed to Chicago for spring break -Wed. nite the 22nd or Thurs. morn. Call Barb -4150 
STEREO SPEAKER SYSTEMS. Brand new, full warranty. Call 
283~8462. 
1969 Dodge Van V~8 Eng. Good Karma. Plush. Call 272-5014, $1350. A real steal. 
. -­
SAVE ON RECORDING TAPE! 
Cassette, Reel, and 8·track; Ampex, BASF, Memorex, Sony, or TDK. Call Don: 3729. 
~ 
-
Closed out! No more tickets to Moody Blues. Sorry! Gideon 
FOR SALE: Webcor Stereo Tape Recorder, Portable Typewriter. Call 1670. 
FOR RENT 
Need lwo individuals to rent six~ room IJi level apartment for ~ummcr months~ Completely furnished Ideal for Grad. qudents~ 10 minutes from 
rampus. S85 per month total. Contact Kevin 272~7565 or Rich 283 1766. 
Dual 8mm projector for rent. Call Don: 3729. 
Words lda 2da 3da 4da 5da 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 
WANTED 

Wanted: 2 female roommates for house off-campus. Rent $40 month. Call 8409. 
Need 2 . 4 Sonny & Cher tix (non­bleacher). George . 1337. 
WANTED: Wine bottles (empty, of course) to be used in decorating th_e North -Pining Hall & South D1n1n9 Hall for Italian Night Please bring your empty bottles io th_e Manager's Office of the North D1n1ng Hall or the south Dining Hall, prior to April 7th. 
Wanted: 3~4 students to sublet a house for the summer in SB. 

3 blocks from campus. Call Tim 3305. 
WANTED! 
I need date for Association 
con­cert. 1 am desperate Call Guissepe 3285. · 
Wanted . 2 Moody Blues Tix Chicago Concert . Jerry 6987 
~. 

-
PERSONALS 
Three guys like to meet three SMC chicks. Call 3591, after 11. Supply references. 
-
Phyllis, Happy St. Patrick's Day today & Happy Birthday tomorrow. 
The Ducks 
Dear Miss Canton, Mass. (Rory?) Glad to see you aren't cheating on rne. 
Bobby Orr 
-
HB to a homely mapper who finally became a major. 
Fighting Irish Just remember St. Patrick was Italian!!! It's the truth. 
Great White Hope: Cannes we? ~Shameless Old Lady 
-
NOTICES 
-
By owner. Swanson Highland. Attractive ranch. All brick. 4 bedrooms, 21 2 bath. Family row, central air. 272~6024. 
~­
YOU: ISIS GALLERY, OLD j FIELDHOUSE, FRI., SAT., SUN., 8, 9 10 PM. 
Parts and Accessories for lm~ ported Cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway Nor­th (Roseland) 272~7187. 
~ 
Typing anytime~ ~reasonable prices. Chip (8256) or Mike (6963). 
~ 
NASSAU TRIP MARCH 24~31. 8 days and 7 nights with quad ac~ com. Air fare and Hotel may be purch.,sed separately. Limited number of seats available. 
Tickets on sale at Student Union Ticket office. $202 inclusive. Questions, call 7757. 
New 7th through 9th grade classical Christian school needs 
English, Latin, Math, Science teachers. Small salaries first year. Looking for graduate students (preferably with Masters) to work part-time while attending Notre Dame. Closing date for applications March 19th. Send vita, references, etc. to Magdalen School, P.O. Box 1225, South Bend 46624. 
TRY OUTS FOR ND-SMC FRESHMAN. ND VARSITY CHEERLEADERS INVITE YOU TO CHEERLEADER TRYOUTS ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 3:30PM, SUNDAY, MARCH 19 IN THE BASEMENT OF WALSH HALL. QUESTIONS? CALL JOE 6706 OR ROONEY 4041. 
Spend a day in Chicago before break lhis Si!turday. 2pm~2am­Round trip bus tickets available­S4 each. Call 67H5 6·7 pm. Also Laura Nyro Chicago ~uditorium t1ckets on same night. 
~­
Detroit Club . St. Patrick's Day celebration Friday March 17, 8:30 pm. 54115 Burdette St. BYO. All Invited. Call 272~2068 for info and 
ride. 
-
Cleveland Club Easter Bus Gary 8150. 
-
-~ 
Drive a ways now available to your home town. Inexpensive and convenient travel. Call 7843. 
--~ 
Jackson Hole Ski Trip ~ 2 places left S99. March 23~31. Lifts & Lodging. Call 6875 ~ Hurry. 
~­
JOBS ON SHIPS! MEN. WOMEN~ Perfect summer job or career. No experience required. 
Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Send $2.00 for information. Seafax, Box 1239-1 G, Seattle, Washington 98111. 

-
j

. 
j 

1 
1 
j j 
1cers
Up and down year for ND • 
by .Jim Donaldson winning four of our first six games, Notre Dame journeyed from the ,. ~. " ~ } Sports Editor it looked like we might accomplish Windy City to the city of bright 
IJil -!
this but injuries, tough competition lights and entertainment, New ' .. . " ' ' One of the marks of a youthful and the long grind took a toll on our York, and put on quite a show 
. I
team is inconsistency. Sometimes young, inexperienced team." themselves, defeating B.C. and St. a young club plays very well and After starting fast, splitting Lawrence enroute to capturing the other limes, not so well. eight-point series with North ECAC Holiday Tournament in 
That's the way things went for Dakota and Michigan Tech and Madison Square Garden, the first the Notre Dame hockey team in its sweeping a four-point meeting with western team to do so in the history first season in the Western Colorado College, Notre Dame hit of the tourney.Collegiate Hockey Association. its first low point in Ann Arbor, the 
On January 10, at home, the Irish 
There were several high points, first weekend in December. Vic­
pulled off a major upset by nipping
and a number of low spots, during timized by poor officiating, the 
ECAC champion Cornell
the past season, in which the Irish Irish dropped two 6-5 games to 
University, 6-5, in overtime.
posted a 14-20 record, including a Michigan. The losses to the 
But the WCHA games were of
10-16 mark in WCHA play, good for Wolverines started a slump that 
primary importance to the Irish
eighth place and a playoff berth. lasted almost three months and 
and it was only by sweeping
Qualifying for the playoffs as a saw Notre Dame win just three of 
Michigan and splitting with
"rookie" in the WCHA is no small 16 league games. Included in that 
Michigan State on home ice the
feat but the Irish, although playing string was an eight-game loss 
final two weekends of the season
with only three seniors, had begun skein, four of those consecutive Paul Regan was Notre Dame's top goal scorer in the team's first W('JIA
that Notre Dame was able to
the season with hopes for a defeats coming on home ice. campaign, putting 29 pucks past opposing net-minders. 
qualify for the league playoffs. 
somewhat better record and final The only bright spot in that Cordes will be missed for his Larson. John Campbell, Pat
As Coach Smith said onstanding. dismal stretch was a sweep of an numerous occasions during the hustle and all-out style of play Conroy. and Ray DeLorenzi, the "On looking back to the start of eight-point series against cellar year. "When we play up to our while Bonk, though not much of a emergence of Mark Kronholm as a 
the season," coach "Lefty" Smith dwelling Minnesota in Min­capabilities, we're as good as any scorer, saw action in 24 games and capable WCHA goalie, and the said, musing on his fourth year at neapolis. team in the league." The Irish often helped out the younger experience gained during the pa~tthe helm of the Irish, "maybe we While WCHA clubs were giving members of the club. season. the Irish are looking up­
hoped to realize their potential in 
were a little overconfident. Maybe them fits, the Irish fared much ward next year.
the playoffs, bl)t regular season 
But Notre Dame's continuedwe expected too much." better agianst non-league foes. 
champion, Denver, crushed Notre "Our WCHA debut was a rough
emergence a power
"We started out the campaign They played one of their finest Dame's dreams of a "Cinderella" as hockey one," Smith said. "But as of next
rests on its younger players and
hopeful of making a strong games of the year on December 18 we'll a mature
bid for the NCAA title by topping year, have very
the prospects for next season look
showing and finishing in the first in the Chicago Stadium, drubbing the Irish, 7-2 and 4-3. team. It took Wisconsin six years
bright.

division," Smith continued. "After Boston College, 14-3. to go from club status to the NCAA
Adversity· seemed to haunt the With the return of top scorers tournament. Next year will be our
Jim Donaldson::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::=~=~=~:::==:=:=:::::=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:::::::::::::~================================ Irish during the 1971-72 campaign. 
Time and again, Notre Dame John Noble, Ian Williams, Paul fifth varsity season and I like to suffered because of subpar of­Began, and Eddie Bumbacco, the think that our timetable is a year and development of freshmen Les ahead of theirs."
ficiating. Injuries illness caused most of the club's top players to sit out at least a couple 
The Irish Eye 
Pangborn wins second
of games apiece. And, often. the "breaks" just didn't seem to go
=====================:=:=:=:=:=:The Bengals from this corner Notre Dame's way, as evidenced 

Interhall hoop crown
by the team's 12 one-goal losses. 
The finals of Notre Dame's 41st annual Bengal Bouts are scheduled for 
But, in the long run, the Irish view these misfortunes as plus
tonight at 8 pm in the ACC and, if the week's final pugilistic production by Stan Urankar fourth quarter tip to put the matches up to the first two rounds, fight fans should be in for an out­factors in their overall develop­Pangborn Hall locked up its Southerners up 45-40, but then standing show. ment. second consecutive Interhall Stanford began to charge back. Joe 
Featuring a number of close matches and some hard hitting that has "As a result of the frustrations basketball championship last night Peterson tossed in a 20 footer, and resulted in nine knockouts, the 1972 Bengal Bouts rank as the best in we've had this year," commented by thumping Stanford, 63-52, in the took the ball out of Farbotko's recent history. There ia an abundance of boxing talent entered in this assistant coach Tim McNeil, "I Auxiliary Gym of the ACC. The hands for an easy layup, cutting year's tourney, including seven former champions and some talented think that the team has come of triumph gave the South Quad the deficit to only a point. newcomers, and the result has been first-rate competition. age. We've gained invaluable champions clean sweep of the
a All ten final bouts on tonight's card match a couple of tough, skilled experience." best two-out-of-three title series. Mike Bush then tipped in a Fred 
"It was a team effort from the Swendsen try, and Dick Prill hit on boxers who'll be going all out to win the championship jacket. "A Jot of our one-goal losses this word 'Go', commented victorious a long set shot that put the Nor­Larry Semerad and Mike Loughery will be the first finalists to step into season," coach Smith remarked, player-coach Chuck Voelker after therners ahead, 48-45, with 4:33 tothe ring, squaring off for the 125-pound title. Both are experienced "were due to a lack of depth and play . But as quickly as things had 
fighters and neither had much difficulty reaching the finals, Loughery maturity. The kids didn't know just the cont~st. "We had four players winning a unamimous decision over Frank Graziano while Semerad took what they had to do to win in the average in double figures, and we looked good for Stanford, they 
suddenly turned sour.

only a minute to post a TKO win over Harry Bush. WCHA." shot 52 percent from the field for After Prill's 
Loughery fought his way to the 135-pound finale a year ago before "Now they've learned that the year. Three league titles and basket the Northerners went 4:10 losing to Pat McGrath. Semerad bowed out in the semis in '71, but he's a hockey's a combination of offense two campus crowns in three without scoring. much improved fighter this time around and will enter the ring as the and defense and that they have to seasons is pretty good." Cornelius was fouled in the act of 
Stanford kept last night's game
favorite. skate just as hard going both ways. shooting and converted both free McGrath returns to defend his 135-pound crown. Matt Cavanaugh will Despite numerous problems, in doubt for better than three throws. He then followed by challenge him but dosen't seem to have the skill to handle Zahm's we've been very resilent all season oeriods, taking advantage of the stealing the ball from Tom 
S~utherners' poorest shooting
scrappy sophmore. and I think that points out that we O'Connor for the points that put Gary Canori, who won the 145-pound championship last year in a dandy have some fine young men here," night of the year (20 of 55 -36 Pangborn ahead to stay. fight with titleholder Tom Suddes, must lick tough Tom Hanlon if he's to Smith said. percentl and 24 turnovers. The 
Stanford continued to try togame was tiedeleventimes and the bow out on top. Canori's a hard hitter and a heady boxer, but will have his Smith means "young men" break the lid on the basket ,but to no
losers twice had leads of fivehands full with Hanlon who reached the finals by upsetting Mike Suddes, literally. With the exception of avail. After Farbotko twice
points.

Tom's brother. and last year's kingpin in the 150-pound class. 
three seniors, goalie Dick clicked on both ends of a one-on­
Another Bengals veteran, Tom Bole, looks like the man to beat in the After a sloppy first half that
Tomasoni, and forwards Jim one, and Cornelius added two more
!50-pound title fight. Bole scored a KO against Paul Smyth in Wednesday ended in a 26-26 tie, both clubs 
Cordes and Joe Bonk, all of the charity tosses, the Southerners
fought for the lead throughout thenight's semi-finals while his opponent in tonight's bout, Mike Sanders, Irish icers will be back next enjoyed a comfortable 55-48 with
third quarter as their shootingscored a unanimous decision over Terry Johnson. 
season. less than a minute left.
touches warmed up. With theThe !55-pound finale pits a couple of hard hitters, defending champ Prill was able to hit a bucket and 
The loss of Tomasoni, the
Kt•vin Kerrigan and freshman Larry Finneran. Kerrigan was called a score deadlocked at 40, Ron 
bulwark of Notre Dame's hockey two foul shots, but John Griffin
"boxing machine" while rolling to the championship a year ago, but the Goodman put in a foul shot, and offset those points with a pair ofprogram for the past four years good
Dillon llall senior looked as if he were a bit rusty while scrambling past Pete f<'arbotko converted a 
will hurt the most. A talented, at pass from John Cornelius into a jumpers as the scoring droughtKen McCandless in the semis. Finneran has been sending his opponents limes brilliant, goalie, Tomasoni quick basket to give Pangborn a killed the losers' hopes of ex­to the canvas with regularity, knocking out Roger Varela Monday night 
to
enabled the Irish to win a number three point edge moving into the tending the playoffs a thirdand posting a TKO win over Bob Bennett in tyhe semi-finals. Kerrigan game.
of games they might otherwise final stanza.
figures to have too much ring savvy for Finneran but he'll know he's been Pangborn won the game at thehave lost during his distinguished Cornelius dropped in anotherin a fight. 
foul line, taking advantage of 21career. breakaway bucket following theI<:d Carney is back to defend his 160-pound championship against soph­Stanford personals that were goodmore Odie Polk. Polk was a TKO winner in his semi-final bout with Bob for 23 free throws. Four men1\taykuth and is a man to be reckoned with, but Carney recorded a TKO Interhall Cage Champs finished in double figures for the
himsdf. against Dan Moriarty, and if Polk beats him, it'll be considered 

winners. Ralph Stepaniak was an upset. 
high man with 15, while CorneliusTlw lli5-pound class features what may well be the best fight on the added 14. Farbotko, only two of 14eard. matching Roland Chamblee and Norm Barry. Barry upset from the field. connected on nine of d('fending champ Chamblee in the semis of last year's tourney but was his II charity tosses to finishedbPat('n in the finals by Mark McGowan. He breezed into the finals this with 13. and leaper Tom RitteryPar with a second round KO of Charlie Grimm. Chamblee earned his chipped in with 10.
ehancc for revenge by defeating Bill McGrath Wednesday in what has to Prill again captured gamehe the "fight of the tourney" so far. If Chamblee is able to shake off the scoring honors with 17. Bushbruises he sustained against McGrath. he could well regain his cham­tossed in 15 and pulled down eightpionship. 
rebounds. while quarterback
Denny Clark and Bryon King clash for the 175-pound title. Clark might O'Connor ended with 10 markers.
have problems catching up with the quick. elusive King, but if he does. 
Just as Pangborn made it two inthe Alumni soph had best watch out. 
a row. so did the MVP awardTwo football players. Pat Steenberge and safety Cecil Boot meet for the which again went to guard Pet~light heavyweight crown. Although Steenberge would love to send Boot on Farbotko. The 6-1 junior ace froma down and out pattern. the pair appear evenly matched and the decision Chicago often came up with keywill depend on whether Steenberge's boxing skill can overcome Boot's steals that were transformed intoquickness and aggressiveness. 
fast break buckets, while at theBob "JI'K' Palooka" Moorman has shown that he can take a lot of same time triggering the balancedpunishment in previous Bengal appearances but he'll be in for his stiffest Pangborn anacKtl'st in two years when he takes on powerful gridder Mike Webb for the Joining Farbotko on the all­heavyweight title. Moorman wen a hard fought split decision over tournament squad were team­strongboy Frank Basanese Wednesday while Webb. one of coach Par­
•::lnghnr~t's lntt>rhall basketball champions are. kneeling, from left, Ed mates Stepaniak, Cornelius, andseghian's linebackers in the Fall. prepped for the finals by destroying 1-.lum .. lltll Donahue. Tom Ritter. Chuck Voelker, John Griffin; standing, Hitter: Peterson, Bush, and PrillBrian Joseph in only 50 seconds. 
Hnu (,uu~man. Ralph Stepaniak. John Cornelius. Walt Patulski, Hank of runner-up Stanford; Tom<:cncral admission tickets for the finals are $1.50 and ringside :"_lul'tt~rlll>s:., ~-f'tl.'. Farbotko. Pangborn wrapped up its second straight Dawson of Holy Cross; and Jerryseats sell for $2--both a good buy for the expected show. 
!tilt• 11 tlh a h.•-.,2 wm ovet· Stanford last night. 
Samaniego of Grace. 










