
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VI, No. 118 Thursday, April 27, 1972 

session today at 2:30 
Mock Convention deadlocked 
Nixon announces further troop withdrawls 
by Tom Drape 
Observer Staff Reporter 
After three ballots, Senators George McGovern and Edward Kennedy are battling for the Mock Democratic Convention's Presidential nomination. The convention, recessed until today at 2:30, found McGovern and Kennedy splitting the 469 third ballot votes, 218-210. 
As Allard K. Lowenstein, Chairman of Americans for Democratic Action, noted in his late night ad­dress <which was delayed until after the third ballot>, "If the Democratic Convention in Miami ends up making their choice between Kennedy and McGovern as you are, it will be the greatest con­vention ever!" 
The disputed Minorities Report was also adopted after the second ballot. The report called for the simple majority instead of the two-thirds vote to elect a presidential candidate. 
The evening session opened with Rule 4 being challenged. The rule calls for a reapportionment of votes t~ delegates present in the larger, unfilled delegatwns. The challenge attempted to amend it to one man-one vote. but a hand vote defeated it. 
t~n speeches 
The nominating speeches for the·evening followed and included ten candidates: Edward Kennedy, Edmund Muskie, Ramsey Clark, Shirley Chisholm, George McGovern, Hubert Humphrey, George 
i-'l 
Delegates at the Mock Convention in Stepan Center. 

A McGovern supporter 
Wallace, Franklin Kameny, and Henry Jackson. The nominating and seconding speeches were flecked with not only the candidates' qualifications but with the idea that it was time for a return to Democratic leadership. 
The convention's only silence was made with a 1 minute meditation for those killed in Vietnam. It was proposed in Jack Pfaffinger's seconding speech for George McGovern. 
The first ballot began with many delegations casting their votes for favorite sons and various joke candidates. The favorite sons balloted were Senator William Proxmire of Wisconsin, Mayor Peter Flarety of Pittsburgh, Pa., Connie Hawkiils of Arizona, Auggie Busch of Missouri, and Mayor Daley of Chicago, Ill. Among the joke candidates were Cy Hunk of Vermont, R. Crumb of Alabama, and Richard Nixon of Indiana. 
The results of the 1st ballot found the major candidates dividing the vote except for McGovern with 114 and Kennedy with 123. None of the can­didates had the needed two-third's majority which had remained in effect through the first two ballots. 
The second ballot began with several delegations withdrawing or releasing their candidates. Among them were Franklin Kameny, the Gay candidate, Cy Hunk of Vermont and Crumb of Alabama. 
Voting on the 2nd ballot then became a little more serious with delegations splitting among Kennedy, McGovern, Humphrey, Chisholm, and Jackson. As the results were made· known, no one had the required two-thirds with the top three being Ken­nedy with 179, McGovern with 181 and Shirley Chisholm carrying 99 votes. 
The beginning of the third ballot witnessed many delegations starting to withdraw their candidates and throwing their support to Kennedy and McGovern. Jackson, Wallace, and Muskie sup­porters threw their weight to Kennedy while Chisholm and Kameny backers switched to McGovern. The Alabama delegation announced the shift of their weight to the B&O Railroad. 
The 3rd ballot with the addition of the simple majority rule failed to choose a candidate. A recess was motioned and it was decided to continue the balloting at 2:30 today. 
Lowenstein, who had kindly consented to delay his address until after the third ballot, came to the forefront in his speech calling for a return of Democratic leadership and an "end to the detour of the present administration." 
A former 5th District Representative in Congress from New York and presently seeking re-election to the 14th District, he bitterly accused the Nixon Administration of "doing nothing, absolutely nothing in his 4 year term. Two years ago, Nixon wanted to be a 1 term president rather than in­vate Cambodia---and he is going to get his wish!" 
"I am trying to tell you that on the record there has never been an administration more deserving of ending it's tenure." Mr. Lowenstein, the 1970 Notre Dame Senior Fellow, cited examples of the present "detour" of lying to America concerning the war. He also noted the neglect to channel funds for the environment and instead their channelling towards the war, and most of all for not ending the war as promised with the present escalation of the bom­bing. 
"My message to you tonight is to become in­volved---talk, talk, talk. Organize and register. The secret is to care---to get out and turn peoples' beliefs. We are coming to the end of this detour." 
The Kennedy Camp 

by Robert Semple, Jr. 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Washington, April 26 -President Nixon announced tonight that he would withdraw 20,000 more American troops from Vietnam, a ·move that would reduce authorized American troop strength to 49,000 by July I. 
In a nationwide address, Nixon gave a generally optimistic assessment of the military situation in Vietnam, and quoted the US Commander in Indochina -General Creighton W. Abrams -as saying that the South Vietnamese could withstand the enemy offensive if the United States con­tinued to provide air and sea support. 
Nixon said that he would continue air and naval attacks on North Vietnam "until the North Vietnamese stopped their offensive in South Vietnam." 
The President sounded yet another op­timistic note whE:n he said that the United States would resume the Paris peace talks tomorrow "with the firm expectation that productive talks leading to rapid progress will follow thoughout all available chan­nels." 
Nixon's speech followed a day-long effort by the administration in public briefings as well as private conversations with newsmen 
to project an air of optimism about the situation in Vietnam. 
The Defense Department volunteered a sanguine assessment of battlefield con­ditions, while the State Department ex­pressed hopes that Nixon's decision, an­nounced Tuesday night at the White House, to return to the negotiating table in Paris would lead to fruitful and serious talks. 
The Pentagon spokesman, Jerry W. Friedheim said he found cause for cheer in the fact that after four weeks of hard fighting the South Vietnamese had "acquitted themselves well" under adverse conditions. 
"We are encouraged," he said, adding that "the enemy has taken very major casualties and is on his way to another set of losses similar to the 1968 Tet offensive." 
According to "estimates and ap­proximations," he claimed, the North Vietnamese and the Vietcong have "suf­fered half, or more losses than he suffered in 1968." 
At the State Department, meanwhile, officials said the United States had decided to attent Thursday's sessions of the peace talks ,to 'explore" the possibiity that Hanoi might be now prepared to act in a more conciliatory manner. 
These officials. also hinted broadly that the United States was prepared to resume secret talks with the North Vietnamese, particularly if Le Due Tho, a member of the Hanoi Politburo, returns as expected to the French capital. 
The State Department spokesman, Charles Bray 2d, declined to explain why the United States had agreed to return to the negotiating table after saying for weeks that it would not do so while the North Viet­namese invasion continued. 
However, speculation persisted here that the secret visit to Moscow last weekend by Henry Kissinger, the President's National Security Adviser, had played an important role in Nixon's decision to resume the talks. Kisiner's mission was disclosed Tuesday. 
Privately, officials insisted that despite encouraging signs on the military front, and elements of hope, however slim, on the diplomatic front, Nixon remained firm in his readiness to invoke American air and sea power to compensate for the dwindling number of combat troops and to help Saigon resist the enemy assault. 
As evidence, Pentagon sources said today that the United States was preparing to send another 36 F4 fighter bombers to Southeast Asia. The planes are expected to leave their bases at Homestead andElgin Air Bases in Florida in a few days. 
This move would bring to about 200 the number of heavy bombers and fighter­bombers moved to the war zone since the enemy offensive began in last March. In addition, the navy has roughly doubled the number of its fighting ships off Vietnam. 
The President's speech represented his first public assessment of the situation in Vietnam since the North Vietnamese smashed through the demilitarized zone into South Vietnam with thousands of troops supported by tanks and other armor. 
It also represented his eighth public an­
nouncement on troop levels since he 
assumed office on Jan. 20, 1969, when the 
authorized troop strength in Vietnam was 
549,000 men. 
Nixon began withdrawing troops from South Vietnam in June, 1969 with an an­nouncement on Midway Island that 25,000 would come home by Aug. 31. During 1969 and 1970, Americans left Vietnam at an average rate of between 10,000 and 12,000 men a month. 
....-------------------------~--~-­
! 
r 
2 the observer Thursday, April 21, 1972 
~---------------------------­
Campus Announcements••• 
. ········-----·---·········-···························· 
=:=:=~;~~i=:~·=;=~·~~·=:;=·~~~;=;~~;~~~=:;=;~~~=;::·=;:~·:~~=·:~·~h:;·~~~;=~·=~~:~=~;=·~·~~·~·~=:~·:~·~ 
Booklet and reports from Notre Dame college deans and department chairmen, Notre Dame students can elect all or part-time degree work at St. Mary's next semester. 
That guarantee IS stated in the "President's Newsletter", volume XV, number 7, March 1972 which was circulated by Notre Dame. 
"Notre Dame students are free to engage in part or full time degree work at St. Mary's and the University will pay the college for the tuition," read the newsletter. 
According to "Notre Dame report" number 13, Notre Dame students who major in undergraduate education at St. Mary's will be eligible for Notre Dame degrees. Any Notre Dame student with an individual problem should contact Dr. William Hickey, special assistant to SMC President Henry, at 4030 or room 131 Le Mans today. 
:=~=z~:~=:=:::;:::::::::.:.=.:.::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:~:=:=:~:=::;:;:::::;:;::;z=:=:=:=:=:~:=:=:=:=:::::::::.::;::::~:=::::;.:::::::::::::::~::.:&;::::::~=~=·= 
Stark asks 

lor volunteers 

Swimming Coach Dennis J. Stark is asking for campus volunteers, on behalf of the St. Joseph County Council for the Retarded, to put together a panel for the parents of Down's Syn­drome <mongoloid> children. 
Coach Stark has asked that any one at Notre Dame or St. Mary's that has a Down's Syndrome brother or sister please volunteer to "share their experiences." 
"The panel will take place on the first Tuesday in May <May 2),and will probably last an hour to an hour and a half. 
The purpose of this panel discussic t1 is to help parents deal with problems that arise in their own families, that they are not aware of, or are unsure how to deal with. 
"The reason I asked for student volunteers, , Stark continued, "is to aid the discussion by providing distance and anonimity. These problems are of the type that parents just can't talk about comfortably with their own kids. I know my own kids wouldn't feel at ease criticizing something my wife or I did." 
Those willing to give up an hour of their time, to help the parents of Down's Syndrome children should call Stark at 6222 or leave a note at room 217 in the Rockne Memorial Building. 

Plodowski speaks 

At a press conference held this morning at the South Bend headquarters of Citizens for a Competent and Effective Family Court, Andrew Plodowski, Democratic candidate for Superior Court judge, addressed a group of assembled newsmen and sup­porters. 
Plodowski stressed that the principal issue of his candidacy is the establishment of a full-time Domestic Relations Courts in St. Joseph County. In recent years, a very high percentage of cases filed in St Joseph County have been concerned exclusively with matters of divorce, separation, annulment and the support and custody of children. In 1971, for example, 42 percent of all civil cases in the county concerned such family disputes. Plodowski con­tinued noting that under the present structurP of the St. Joseph County Superior Court, these cases are heard on rotating basis by all the judges of the Superior Court. The disposition of these cases in already overcrowded courts is often rushed, he said. Adequate time cannot be spent by the court in thoroughly investigating the causes of the divorce action. 
Plodowski claimed that at the present time the specialized practice of divorce law is a million dollar a year business in St. Joseph County. Troubled by the dissolution of family life and the inherent damage to the stability of our society, Plodowski called the attention of all the citizens to the fact that a 1971 Indiana law makes it possible for a division of Superior Court to be established as a full-time Domestic Relations Court in St. Joseph County. 
This court', when established. will have the power to use marriage counsellors, psychologists, professional in­vestigators and referees in an effort to discover the real causes of family disputes and if possible, to solve them before reaching a divorce. Couples will be able to get this help without large legal fees, the only costs being an additional $10.00 filing fee. 
Plodowski pointed out that in recent weeks he has consulted with the spiritual leaders of all the major faiths in our community and has received from them very strong support for his program for the establisheent of a Domestic Relations Court. 
ND grads given 

Fellowships 
Two candidates for doctoral degrees at the University of Notre Dame have been awarded dissertation fellowships from the Woodrow Wilson Foundation. A 1965 graduate, presently studying at John Hopkins University, also received one of the awards which provide a living stipend so that candidates in the humanities and social sciences may devote full attention to dissertation research and writing. 
The Notre Dame recipients include Sr. Barbara C. Ewell, S.S.N.D., of Irving, Texas, and Julienne H. Empric, Lackawanna, 
N.Y. The alumnus recipient, of Baltimore, Md., Robert J. Brugger, is a Vietnam veteran and the father of two children. 
"Art and Experience in the Poetry of Michael Drayton" is the topic of St. Barbara's thesis for an English degree. She was a Woodrow Wilson designate in 1969­70 after graduation from the University of Dallas. Miss Em­pric, who received fellowships and scholarships from Nazareth College, the University of 
Learnto be apilot.
Flyin yourspare time. 
Flying ... what a ~reat ,\·ay to Upqn being commissioned a 2nd lieutenant in spare time. Undergraduate Pilot .. ··.· Force Reserve, you go directly to an 
(UPT) is the Air Force Rese gram that trains those who q to become ~\ir Force pilots a minimum of interrupti from _i o h, hoIlle 1ife, e ~ ~···,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,!, (~ualifiuttions include: .:'' being-c between zolh an z6% yean; of age; in top phy~ical condition; hold. a bachelor's degree (or in your last semester); and satistiKtory scores on the ;\ir Force ( Hn­cer ·~ (~ual iticationTest. 
The program beginl-i \\"ben you go to I.ad:.­land AFH, Texas, td attend Orlicer Train­ing for 1 2 weeks. 
I 

Bridgeport's Shakespeare In­stitute, and York University, Toronto, has chosen "Levels of Illusion: A Study of Shakespeare's Internal Plays, Masques, Pageants" as the topic for her English literature dissertation. 
Brugger, who won the 1964 Follette History Essay award at Notre Dame, is completing "Professor Beverley Tucker of William & Mary: The Mind and Heart of a Secessionist" as his dissertation. 
Rush concert here on Friday 
Song-stylist Tom Rush will be presented in concert by the Cultural Arts Commission of the University of Notre Dame in Stepan Center at 8:30p.m. Friday (April 28) 
Described as the only con­sistently successful song-finder in the "pop world," Rush is a graduate of Harvard and the author of several top-selling albums, including "Wrong End of the Rainbow," "Take a Little Walk With Me," and "The Circle Game." 
The young singer-guitarist "ranges through the whole of American folk song, high and low. deep and wide, with complete confidence, competence and taste," according to reviewers who have attended his coffeehouse and college concerts. 
Tickets for the Notre Dame concert, priced at $3 for reserved and $2 for general admission, are available at Pandora's Bookstore, AI Smith's Record Bar, Witmer­McNease Music, Jennifer's, the Elkhart Truth, Student Union ticket office, and at Stepan Center on the night of the performance. 

Tom Rush will aopear in concert at Stepan Center tomorrow. 
AIR FORCE RESERVE I DIRECTORATE OF ADVERTISING (RSAV) I \ RANDOLPH AIR FORCE BASE I \ TEXAS 78148 I \ I \ I
\ Name (please print) Date of Birth I 
\ I
\ Address I \ I 
\ City County State Zip I \ I \ College Graduation date 1 \\ I 
'-Planned Future Residence //' ',, /.// 
......... _______ 


' _,... 

Find yourself 
in the Air Force Reserve. 
,Force tlying school for classroom flying instruction. After one of trainin~, you will n to vour own home­follow the civilian 
•::::t:<tn::c:I you've chosen, and 
ith your local Air .,,,,.,,,,..,rr·p Reserve unit, dur­
our spare time and weekend~. For all e facts ahout the Reserve's l. ndergrad­Pilot Trainin~ Program mail in the 
Air Force Reserve, .you can rea II y ge·t awavfromitall. 
-
3-SC-42 II 
Thursday, April 27, 1_972 the observer 
Muskie's withdraw! statement expected soon 
by James M. Naughton 
<c> 1972 New York Times 
Washington, April 26--Sen. Edmund S. Muskie reportedly will withdraw tomorrow as an active candidate for the Democratic Presidential nomination. 
The Senator from Maine decided this afternoon, according to disappointed aides. that he should pull out of the race and release delegates who are pledged to support him at the Democratic National Convention. 
The decision followed the unanimous recommendation of Muskie's National Campaign staff that he withdraw in order to hold himself out as a possible com­promise nominee at a deadlocked con­vention. This was seen as the only remaining route to an objective that slipped farther from Muskie's reach with each of the six state primaries. 
The recommendation, based upon Muskie's poor showings in primaries yesterday in Pennsylvania and Massachusetts, was relayed to the Senator at a meeting with Senior Staff members and close personal advisers at his home in suburban Bethesda, Md. 
Muskie canceled a scheduled trip tonight to Toledo, where he was to have opened a week-long attempt to revive his candidacy in the Ohio Primary next Tuesday. 
Richard H. Stewart, the Senator's Press Secretary, issued a statement in which he said Muskie was "presently evaluating the political situation" and announced that he would hold a news conference tomorrow in the Capitol. 
"He has been consulting with his family and his friends and supporters throughout the day and he will continue to do so throughout the evening," Stewart said. 
Humphrey captures 57 delegates 
•

1n Pennsylvania primary race 
By Donald Janson 
<C> 1972 New York Times Philadelphia, April 26--Sen. Hubert H. 
Humphrey won not only the popularity poll in yesterday's Pennsylvania Democratic Presidential Primary, but a solid plurality of delegates to the party's National Con­
vention as well. 
The double-barreled Humphrey triumph, while vital to the former Vice President's viability as a candidate, was not as surprising however, as the extent of the collapse of Sen. Edmund S. Muskie, who had concentrated on Pennsylvania for three weeks, and the strength shown by Sen. GeorgeS. McGovern and Gov. Goerge 
C. Wallace despite extremely limited campaigning here. 
delegate count 
The Delegate count, completed this afternoon, gave Humphrey 57, McGovern 37, Muskie 29 and Wallace 2. 
Twelve of the 137 newly elected delegates are uncommitted, but some of these favor Humphrey. And his delegate lead in Pennsylvania will be extended further next month when the first 137 in the party's state committee name 45 more delgates to bring the total to 182. 
With about half of Pennsylvania's 2.6 million registered Democrats voting, slightly above normal for a primary year, Humphrey got 474,000 votes in the popularity poll, Wallace 288,000, Muskie 275,000, McGovern 273,000 and Sen. Henry M. Jackson 40,000. 

ethnic blocs 
Humphrey carried 53 of the state's 67 counties. With the all-out help of the top ranks of organized labor in the state, he carried the majority of blue collar districts with the exception of the anthracite coal region in Northeastern Pennsylvania, where Muskie's Polish ancestry helped with ethnic blocs. 
The former Vice President carried Allegheny County <Pittsburgh) where large Slavic ethnic blocs failed to give Muskie their votes. Wallace, whose only Pennsylvania rally of the campaign was held in Pittsburgh last Saturday night, gave Humphrey his major competition there. 
From a district embracing steel mill towns in towns in the western part of Allegheny county, Governor Wallace elected two of the four delegates he had 
rhe Observer is published daily I during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre Dame. Ind... 
LOW COST DEPENDABLE Flights to Europe More than 40 flights to choose from Call 259-9710 


Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey captured his first Presidential Primary victory in Pennsylvania on Tuesday. 
slated in Pennsylvania. 
Wallace did not do nearly so well in the state's other urban center, Philadelphia. Humphrey seept the city, including all of its black wards, by 2-1 over his nearest rival, McGovern. 
The former vice president was aided by a decision of the party's organiazation, headed by city chairman Peter J. Carnie!, to permit precinct committeemen to work for Humphrey in the popularity poll if they wanted to while trying simultaneously to elect delegates for Muskie, the party's endorsed choice. 
As a result of the accomadation, Muskie salvaged 14 of Philadelphia's 28 delegates. 
Humphrey shared the Jewish vote in the major cities with McGovern, who won delegates in liberal sections of both Philadelphia and Pittsburgh and swept the suburban counties around Philadelphia. 
The McGovern strength was so great in the suburbs that even well-known can­didates for delegate suchas James A. Michener, the author, a leader of the Muskie slate in Bucks Sounty, went down to defeat. 
The election was a disaster not only for Muskie, but also for Gov. Milton J. Shapp, who endorsed the Maine Senator and campaigned for him. 
But the word of Muskie's decision was passed to campaign organizers here and in Ohio and California late this afternoon. 
His speecn wnters had prepared a with­drawal announcement this afternoon in the event that Muskie had chosen to deliver it tonight rather than tomorrow. 
Muskie's decision was said to have been made at a three-hour meeting in his home with Berl I. Bernhard, the campaign director; George Mitchell, the deputy director; Clark Clifford, the former Secretary of Defense; former Sen. Albert Gore of Tennessee, and Stewart. 
The decision was expected to generate a frantic effort by the two candidates who had been considered Muskie's leading rivals --Senators Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota and George McGovern of South Dakota--to secure the backing of Muskie's delegates and supporters. 
Although Muskie's aides cast the decision as an alternative route --though an unlikely one --to the nomination, they expressed frustration at the collapse of a candidacy that had been generally regarded as invincible when Muskie declared it 113 days ago on national television. 
Only last evening, when he addressed his supporters in the Benjamin Franklin Hotel in Philadelphia, Muskie pledged that he would be in the running to the end. 
"Coming thtough a very difficult and trying period," he declared, "we've turned the corner and we've leveled off and we're on our way up again." 
When Muskie made that assertion, however, the Pennsylvania returns showed him running even with Sen. Hubert 
H. Humphrey of Minnesota in the delegate count. In addition, he had been privately advised by Gov. Milton J. Shapp that he would win 61 delegates in the state and by Peter J. Camiel, the Democratic leader in Philadelphia, that he would capture a majority of the votes in the city. 
By this morning, when it was clear that Muskie had lost in both the popularity and delegate contests, even the gentle senator from Michigan, Philip A. Hart, was moved to say that the corner Muskie had turned went "down a blind alley." 
In Muskie's national headquarters here at mid-morning, reports from aides stationed in Ohio and California predicted that the Senator would finish third in the 


Massachusetts 
BEST BANDS IN TOWN 
Clothes and things 
-Two Bands a night 


Men's Boutique 

"On the Mall" -McKinley Town & Country Shopping Ctmter -Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 259­
7:1.15 




amaze many veteran politicians 
Muskie's aides claim that the disappointed Senator from Maine will withdraw today. 
two states if he persisted with an active candidacy. 
Berl I. Bernhard, the campaign director, assembled a dozen senior staff members in his office at 11:30 this morning and asked each, in turn. for a recom­mendation. One after another said that Muskie should withdraw from active contention and put into effect what has come to be known as "scenario no. 3." 
Under that strategic scenario, developed by the staff in discussions yesterday in Philsdelphia, the only alternative open to Muskie if he failed to win in Pennsylvania or at least gain a large block of the delegates there would be the following: --announce that he was releasing from their commitments to support him those delegates won by Muskie in the primaries in New Hampshire, Illinois and Penn­sylvania and the delegates pledged to him in party caucuses in nonprimary states. 

primary results 
Boston, April 26--The dimensions of Sen. George S. McGovern's Democratic Primary victory here swelled to what even seasoned politicians call "amazing" proportions as the vote count continued today. 
McGovern swept the state, winning 52 per cent of the total vote and carrying every congressional district, and won the first-ballot vote of the 102-delegate slate to the Democratic National Convention in Miami. 
McGovern also appears to have carried 87 delegates personally pledged to support him after the first ballot in Miami, in­cluding a 20-member at-large slate which beat a slate proposed by Sen. EdmundS. Muskie made up of virtually every major democratic politician in the state. 
On the basis of Tuesday's voting, a New York Times survey now puts McGovern ahead in the total number of first-ballot votes now committed at the convention. According to the survey the delegate strength is as follows: McGovern 232 1~ Muskie, 134 112; Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey, 77; Gov. George C. Wallace, 77; Rep. 
Shirley Chisholm, 10; Sen. Henry M. Jackson, 1; Rep. Wilbur D. Mills, 1; un­committed, 176. 
Not even McGovern's staff had expected the range of suport he eventually received here that included: 
--sweeping the city of Boston, including victories in both blue-collar ethnic voter districts and middle-and upper-income areas in Back Bay and Beacon Hill. 
--his strongest showing yet among black voters, running second only to Representative Chisholm in the city's black precincts. 
--convincing margins in Wellesley <upper-income, suburban), Fall River <low-income, ethnic), Cambridge (Har­vard students and faculty) and Lowell <high unemployment industrial center). 
!n a post-election analysis, the McGovern campaign claimed to have won between 35 and 40 percent of the total black vote in the state and 45 per cent of the blue­collar vote, both union and nonunion workers, to bolster their claim that he has made a breakthrough in extending his appeal to the more conservative voters in the Democratic Party. 
-Dancing 6 nights a week (closed Monday.) -No cover on Tues., Wed., Thurs. -Open till 2 a.m. "One stop entertainment center"· 
CocKtail Lounge Bowling Billiar:ds 
S~u/a 's _7\f;te C/u' 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
616/683-4350 
4 




world briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Saigon -The situation in South Vietnam seems mixed. Communist forces were close enough to Kontum in the Central Highlands that the city's defenders were preparing for an assault. Other enemy forces overran a South Vietnamese fire base in the Central Coastal region and cut Route 1, the main North-South highway. But a government convoy reportedly succeeded in reacing Pleiku. 
Pari&-All parties to the Paris peace talks on Vietnam agreed to meet Thursday for the first time in more than a month. 
Murree, Pakistan -India and Pakistan began peace talks in Murree, Pakistan, and sources close to the negotiations said each considered the other more eager to establish a genuine peace than ever before in their generation of hostility. 
Detroit -Ford Motor Company said that its earnings were up 55 per­cent for the first quarter of 1972 and immediately announced that it was uctting its car and truck prices by an average of $13 a unit. 

• Washington-Paroles were granted to Dr. Martin Sweig, former ad­ministrative assistant to former House Speaker John McCormack, and to Anthony DeAngelis, the key figure in a salad-oil swindle, by the United States Board of Parole. But Ralph Ginzburg, the former publisher of Eros magazine, was denied a parole. 
Apollo 16 crew heads for South Pacific splashdown 
by John Noble Wilford 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

Houston, April 26--Apollo 16 was on course and gatherir.g speed tonight, aiming for a splashdown in the Pacific Ocean at 2:44 P.M. Eastern Standard Time today. 
The U .S.S. Ticonderoga, an aircraft carrier, was standing by about 300 miles south of Christmas Island to recover the three astronauts after their 11-day voyage to the moon. Weather in the splashdown area was expected to be satisfactory. 
When the spacecraft was still 123,000 miles from Earth, about half-way home, Capt. John W. Young and Lt. Comdr. Thomas K. Mattingly 2d of the Navy and Lt. Col. Charles M. Duke Jr. of the Air Force held a 20-minute space-to­ground news conference. 
Duke reported that some of the rocks that he gathered on the moon seemed to be unlike any "seen before in the lunar samples." 
Although he and Young were surprised by the apparent scarcity of volcanic rock at the landing site, Duke said they did observe two formations that may have been "subdued old cinder cones" that looked as if the)' "might have been a source of some volcanic activity" billions of years ago. 
Mattingly reported that his "most surprising" discovery from lunar orbit was a distinctive lava flow formation on the far side of the moon that reminded him of the volcanic lava fields of Hawaii. 
Looking down at Guyot Crater, which is northwest of King crater on the far side, Mattingly noticed a "big hole" in the side of the crater and "it appeared there was material oozing out." 
Mattingly added, "We passed almost directly overhead, and it looked like it (the Guyot Crater) was filled with a pool of material, and this material had run down the side. That's a formation typical of things that you see in Hawaii, something I have not seen anywhere else on the moon, nor have I seen a picture of it." 
This observation suggested to scientists clear evidence that the moon once experienced some volcanic activity. They said that Mattingly's description did not mean that the material was still oozing, but was "frozen" in its 

New members sought lor Student Advisory Council 
The Student Advisory Council of the College of Arts and Letters will choose its members for the 1972­1973 school year next week, an­nounced the body's president, Neil Rosini. Three Arts and Letters senior-to-be, three juniors-to-be, and two sophomores-to-be will be added to the present underclass membership for a total of 12. 
Students interested in applying should call the Arts and Letters College Dean's Office at 6642 no later than 5 p.m. Monday, May 1, in order to be contacted for an interview. Final selections will be made within the week. 
."We're looking for students interested in working for con­structive change within the college," said Rosini, "Our ex­perience this year has been quite good as Dean Crosson has been very receptive to our ideas and suggestions." 

Notre Dame -St. Mary's Theatre presenh 


SHOWBOAT 
A musical by Kern & Hammerstein II April 28, 29, May 4, 5, 6 8:30pm sharp O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Tickets $2.50, $2 for students, ND-SMC faculty,
staff. 
Information and Reservations at 284-4141, 284­
4176 
... 
The Advisory Council has the responsibility of advising the Dean on all matters of concern to the college. This year matters dealt with included amendments to the pass-fail option, changes in the Collegiate Seminar Program, and the formation of a college-wide Academics Problems Procedure which was recently passed by the College Council. The procedure, which will deal with a wide range of student problems from dissatisfaction in courses to grievances concerning grades, will be mediated by the Advisory Council next year with faculty participation. Members of the council also arranged the Sophomore 'Meet Your Major Night. 
All present juniors, sophomores, and freshmen who will be enrolled in the College of Arts and Letters are eligible. 
original flow pattern. 
The scientists added that no such apparently distinctive lava flows had been observed on previous Apollo flights. 
The astronauts often gave only terse, matter-of-fact answers to questions submitted by newsmen. They chose not to discuss the many equipment problems that have plagued the mission or to com­ment on the scientific experiment that was ruined when Young ac­cidentally ripped out the cable with his feet. 
Nor would the astronauts make any interpretation of the geological results of their visit to the moon's Descartes region. 
Young conceded that when 
trouble developed with the backup 
controls of the command ship 
rocket "we all had our serious 
doubts•· about ever getting to land 
on the moon. 
Space Agency physicians reported that the three astronauts were relaxed and in good health. They said that there had been no worrisome abnormalities of the astronauts' heartbeats, and that all the physiological data the physicians can measure in flight appeared normal. 
An alarm signal alerted the astronauts today to a possible failure of the command ship's guidance and navigation system. But just as suddenly and mysteriously as it appeared, the problem went away. 
on campus today 
11: 15--forum, michael cook, Indiana bar presentation, law building. 
6: 00--meeting, sailing club, 204 engineering. 7:00--convention, mock democratic convention, stepan center. 7:30--lecture, bart landry, socio-political conditions and liberation 
movements of afro-americans, library auditorium. 
8: 00--lecture, robert lynn, trends In protestant religious education, architecture auditorium. 

at notre dame-st. marys 
Dr. Edward Henry, president-elect of St. Mary's College, will ad­dress an all school convocation in O'Laughlin Auditorium, Friday at 3:00. 
Dr. Henry is flying in specifically for this meeting at the request of students. He will discuss his plans for the college next year, its relation to Notre Dam~, and he will answer any questions. 
Followin~l the convocation, Dr. Henry has scheduled a press con­ference at 4:00. 




''LONG HAIR'' 
Strictly Caranaby St. The British Shag is The new limey shag here. If you have long (LONG HAIR) is the hair Continental's bloody sensation, as Artists can trim it for a desired, for the young bloody true Shag, as HARE SET with kitties desired, with or without only. kitties. 

a61;,_.VIHRe~a·l~t·h..1y. hair is our business. 
HAIR STYLING, LTD.~ 
SERVING THEN .D. COMMUNITY FOR OVER 4 YEARS 
Call 259-7679 for APPOINTMENT 
1321 E. McKinley Ave., Mish. (next door to Normain Pharmacy) <Special Student Rates Every Day) 

THE UNDERSIGNED LAW FACULTY MEMBERS SlJPPORT 

GEORGE BEAMER, JR. 
For SUPERIOR COURT JUDGE 
As a colleague on the law faculty, practicing lawyer, and community ser­vant, George Beamer, Jr. has demonstrated his eminent qualifications for Su~erior Court Judge. He has a deep understanding of the judicial process, a smgular commitment to the cause of equal justice for all a desire to 
. ' 
Improve the administration of justice in our community, and the tem­perament and integrity required for this position of high trust. 
Francis X. Beytagh, Jr. 
Thomas F. Broden 
John L. Carey Anton H. Chroust Granville Cleveland Fernand Dutile Philip Faccenda 
Leslie G. Foschio 
Pd. for by Law Faculty for Beamer Committee, T. Broden, L. Foschio, Co· Ch . 
Edward J. Gray 
Paul B. Kusbach 
Conrad Kellenberger 
William Lewers 
Charles Murdock Thomas L. Shaffer Peter W. Thornton 

--~ ---------­
Thursday, April 27, 1972 the observer 
Soph Literary Festival reaches new heights 
by Beth Hall people on the basis of their financed festival yet, even though festival, Sarton contacted the new The SLF staff missed classes 
"The festival has risen in writings, previous lectures, and we had twenty events--more than chairmen last May and read and most of the festival week, and popularity and interest and ranks possible use in classrooms, in ever before." wrote letters throughout the instead attended the various as one of the most eagerly awaited hopes of attracting a varied and events with their guests. events on campus." Sophomore interesting group. The Sophomore Literary summer. "But," he added, "just Kathy Schwille, escort to Robert Literary Festival Chairman, Ray The next problem was setting up Festival receives its funds from being with the writers is the best Duncan, decided it was a ·more Funk, and his staff planned far in a schedule of events and making the Cultural Arts Commission. part." educational experience than going advance to ensure the success arrangements for motels, meals, This year they also had grants Each of the guests had two to classes. "It's unique to be able to promised in the year's program. parties, and places for lectures and from the English, Black Studies, student escorts who accompanied talk with someone of such in­
readings. Guests stayed at the and American Studies depart­them to lectures, dinners, and tellectual stature," she said. 
Preparations began soon Morris Inn and faculty advisors, ments. parties. The staff said being following last year's festival. Funk Professors Bizot, Matthias, and escorts was an enjoyable ex­Everyone felt that the festival was chosen chairman last May and Costello, gave dinners and parties. Randy Sarton handled publicity perience. was a success but student turnout immediately began the search for Some of the writers attended the for the festival, which included Joe Griffin found the ·task of at the events was rather disap­the guest writers. Jethro Tull concert. newspaper coverage, radio spots guiding Charles Newman pointing. "Mter all," said Funk, 
Funk and his staff familiarized and posters put up on the ND-SMC "delightful." Griffin especially "the purpose of the SLF is to themselves with the works of many All these arrangements were campuses and in the South Bend enjoyed talking with Newman generate interest in good, serious writers over the summer. They restricted to limited budget. Funk area. though he admitted he "sometimes writers. I wish we could have then sent letters to over fifty noted that this was the "cheapest Impressed by last year's got lost." reached more people." 
Kleindienst to testily before Senate again 
<c> New York Times 

floor, where Sen. Robert C. Byrd, In addition to Kleindienst, "several weeks of debate to ex­Washington, April 26--The the Assistant Majority Leader, Kennedy suggested the committee plore all the facts." 
Senate Judiciary Committee t:stimated Kleindienst commands should recall Howard J. Aibel, In a statement read to the decided today to recall Richard G. majority support for confirmation. I.T.T. General Counsel, Dita D. Judiciary Committee, Tunney, a Kleindienst for one more day of The problem that may develop on Beard, the I.T.T. lobbyist whose member of the committee,testimony before voting tomorrow the Senate floor, however, is alleged memorandum generated charged that Kleindienst's afternoon on his nomination to be bringing the nomination to a vote. the controversy, and Flanigan, as testimony was "filled with lapsedAttorney General. Kennedy announced on the well as other witnesses. memory, minimized recollection 
The expectation was that the Senate floor that he would move to Failing on a recommittal and vastly understated in­committee would reaffirm recommend the nomination to the motion, there was growing volvement." tomorrow its endorsement of the Judiciary Committee for further likelihood that liberal Democrats, Tunney suggested at one pointnomination, with the controversy hearings to clear up which he led by Senators Kennedy and John that the committee refer the entire then to be renewed on the Senate described as "a number of in­V. Tunney of California, would hearing record to the Justice floor by Democratic liberals. consistencies" in the testimony. If seek to block an immediate vote Department to determine if per­
The committee decision to have the Senate votes generally along through extended debate. jury had been committed, but then one more day of testimony from partisan lines, with Southern Tunney suggested to reporters withdrew his proposal when it was Kleindienst, who is currently the Democrats joining Republicans, a that ther were "so many ip­apparent that a majority of the acting Attorney General, and then vote on such a recommittal motion consistencies" in the testimony committee wanted to act first on vote on his nomination represented could be close. that it probably would take the nomination. 


a compromise. Republicans had wanted an immediate vote, while Democratic liberals desired to reopen the hearing into whether there was a link between the Justice Department's out-of-court settlement of three antitrust suits against International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation and 
I.T .T. 's pledge of $400,000 t? t~e Republican National Convention m San Diego.
The decision was taken by a 9 to 5 vote after the ct>mmittee had rejected a proposal by Sen. Ed­ward M. Kennedy <D-Mass) to hold at least three more days of hearings. • 
The principal purpose of the one­day hearing, as described by Sen. James 0. Eastland, the committee chairman, will be to give Klein­dienst an opportunity to clarify inconsistencies that appear to have arisen in his earlier testimony about his role in the settlement of the I.T.T. cases. 
With anticipated committee 
decision in effect "lifting the 
cloud" from over the nomination, 
the fight will shift to the Senate 
CAC presents in concert 


'IbmRush 
Friday, April 28 Stepan Center 8:30pm Tickets: $2 & $3 
Why Fight The Crowds Thursday The Alumni Club will be open 10:00 pm -2:00 12 OZ OF COLD SCHLITZ 
25c 
hours this week 
wed. 4:00 -2:00 
thurs. 10:00 -2:00 
fri. 4:00 -2:00 
closed saturday 
,--------------------------­
1 . 1 
t

t Not all Are all football teams alike? t
' 

f Are all colleges alike? •, 

t life insurance
I Are all dates alike? I 

compan1es I 
11f are alike THERE IS A DIFFERENCE. . . f 
1 A tremendous difference in what I 1 you get for your money. It's the I t kind of difference that's worth f I knowing about! 
I 

'I Get the straight facts, by calling: tf 

II t 
CAMPUS REPRESENT ATtVES ',', 
Mike Baugartener 232·0649 
Ralph Holewinski 289·6100 Kevin Hoene 283·3543 

' '-' ,~ Tll\\ I,11 W'-MU1lJM IIH. MilWAUKH Tom Merritt 283·3094 t 
t--------------------------~.J 
.---------------------------------------------------------------·-----------------------------------­

Bob Welly speaks at Mock Convention. 
America's Chi/drenuumlmuuuuuulllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 

Assorted wanderings 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Jerry Lutk us 
The Faculty Letters 
The recent barrage of faculty letters, counter faculty letters, ethic reports, and faculty Senate meetings has been followed by a news letter from the AAUP. Notre Dame's chapter of the American Association of University Professors released information supporting the charges of the 31 professors who signed the first faculty letter. The cited 5 cases in particular that evidenced the Administration's disregard for faculty input. 
The newsletter is the latest occurance in a series of attempts to open lines of communication between the faculty and the Administration. But it's been over a month now since the 31 professors stuck their necks out and released tirle initia.l faculty statemtnt. Fr. Hesburgh addressed the first letter by reserving comment until after a poll of the faculty was taken. Before the poll could be completed, the second faculty letter was released along with a couple individual essays. The poll was finally tabulated and it revealed that over 50 percent of the professors reached agreed in substance with the first faculty letter. It's been over a week now since the poll was released and still no comment from Hesburgh. Now the AAUP has come up with it's latest statement and as of Tuesday night, the President still had nothing prepared. Burtchaell, the subject of some of the attacks, has also kept silent. 
It all seems quite ironic that in an attempt to open a dialogue with the Administration, the faculty has entered into a wonderful dialogue with themselves... because the Administration just won't talk. It seems that you cannot deny the faculty's stance when viewing the last month of silence from the Administration. They don't seem to want to talk about anything. There hangs heavy upon the Dome a cloud of secrecy. 
In the ND Student Manual there is a prologue written by Fr. Hesburgh that states in part, "It is the willingness to cooperate, to discuss issues, and to formulate mutually acceptable resolutions which can bring about a real spirit of mutual respect among the three groups making up University life: the students, the faculty, and the administration." 
The words ring particularly hollow in light of the most recent activities of the ND Administration. 
C.A.P. 
That afeared beast and sacred cow of the University of Notre Dame has again treaded upon the scene on the eve of that free-for-all known as preregistration. The monster I speak of is the CAP program. CAP stands for Committee on Academic Progress. It's another one of those programs of the University that no knows too much about-including me, so please correct me (or should that be inform me) of it when I stumble. As I understand it, the students are picked for CAP because of their grade point average< heretofore known as capital GPA). Then, they are given an advantage in picking classes over everyone else in the University because of their place in this secret society. Many of the CPA members, if not all of them, registered on Tuesday night, including the King. <Perhaps I am attacking thewrong thing-this could be a bastion of His Majesty's Oligarchy.) So, on Thursday and Friday when you disbelievingly see that course you so badly wanted closed out already, ak the secretary if you can see the roster. If I'mnot mistaken you will see the letters CAP filling a few of the lines on that class list. 
It really seems odd that such a creature exists within the Univeristy society. That society is one where freedomand responsibility are essential. Yet that freedom is severely limited to some and opened ex­clusively to others in this case. The freedom to pursue the education you want can be restricted by the immense freedom given to a few. King Kerstenmust have a point when he say that Notre Dame isn't ready for a democracy. The structure we now have, in place where academic freedom is the Messiah, indicates that clearly. 
Well, I've strayed. Again, if on Thursday and Friday mornings you find your courses closed out, request to see the roster. If on that roster there lies a series of CAP, CAP, CAP, CAP, you've got a right to beprettyticked off. If you want to scream at someone, the CAP office is on the third floor of O'Shaugnessy. But there's only one problem you probably won't find anyone home. The room is generally dark-I guess they must conduct the meetings of their secret society by candlelight when the moon is dark. 
staff: 
Nite Editor: Dan Barrett, Beth Hall Layout: Mary Romer, Steve Barrett, Clark Eide, Jerry Headlines: Pete Fries, Ken Kampman Day Editor: Jack Kelley Night Controller: Joe Wilkowski 

l-------------~------------------------------------~ 




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPE'NDENT STUDENT NEWSP.t-.PER 

John Abowd  Jim Jendryk  
News: 283-1715  Editor-in-chief  Business Manager  
Editorial: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471  Qon Ruane Executive Editor  Ann Druecker Advertising Manager  

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Thursday, April 27, 1972 

Vietnam: 
hope and disappointment 
President Nixon's address to the nation last night contained few surprises. A good, if slow, policy of troop withdrawals continues, the Paris Talks are to be resumed, but the bombing will continue. 
By July 1, 20,000 more men will be removed from the Indochina war. Admittedly, these men should never have been there in the first place, but the process of withdrawal is a good one. Since taking office, Nixon has reduced the troop level in Vietnam from over 500,000 to 49,000 (by July 1). This is better than Johnson did, even if it has taken over three years to get to this level. It should have been done faster, but at least it's being done. 
The resumption of the Paris Talks is also a cause for some hope. These talks may not themselves lead to a settlement in Vietnam, but they provide a framework and basis of com­munication. Without them, there would not be any formal link between the U.S. and North Vietnam. It may not be much, but it's better than nothing. Perhaps any final settlement must come from agreement outside the formal talks; continuing the talks can at least help remove the rhetoric from any secret talks. 
Continuing bombing in the war does not raise any hopes, however. Nixon announced that we will continue to bomb, increase our naval forces, and continue the technological war until, as he put it, "the North Vietnamese stop their of­fensive in South Vietnam." 
This is the problem, it seems, in Nixon's policy. He still clings to the vain hope that there is such a thing as victory in Vietnam. If the Thieu government holds up under the current wave of attacks, will we withdraw finally? Or will Americans still be forced to stay and play watch­dog over the country? Will there be a repeat of Korea, where there are still 50,000 American men stationed after a war that, for all intents and purposes, ended in the early 1950's? 
As Fr. Hesburgh noted in his statement last week,the country has had enough of the rhetoric of victory. We must realize that there are losses in Vietnam, and there will be future losses unless we are willing to cut back now on the in­volvement there. The losses may not be shown in the weekly casualty figures for ground troops; these will be lowered as a result of the with­drawal policy. But they will be continued losses in national morale, continued losses in scarce resources needed for domestic problems. 
We are still in danger of staying in Vietnam forever. We can always say: "One more of­fensive, one more time holding up a tottering government, and we will be out." The nation must decide that this is wrong, that we should end our mistake now. 
Jim McDermott 

Thursday, April 27, 1972 the observer 7 
Letters to the Editor ••• 
••• on Senior Fellows, the war, and more 
Response to Ruane 
Editor: 
I must have given columnist Don Ruane credit for more sense than he actually possesses, for I was shocked to see him write off William Kunstler as "an idiot" and Rev. Daniel Berrigan as just "another cool radical that the seniors could elect to demonstrate their disappointment with Notre Dame and to embarass du Lac in the hope of changing thing." 
William Kunstler and Daniel Berrigan are giants in an age which Fr. Hesburgh terms on of "moral midgets". These men possess well thought out beliefs and stand behind them to the end, if the need be. 
Contrary to what Mr. Ruane writes, I believe that Daniel Berrigan truely is representative of the Senior Class, not just in voting percentage but also in deeply held moral principles. It is erroneous to believe that the seniors selected Rev. Berrigan solely because he is radical and thus might be more entertaining or embarassing to "Conservative Notre Dame." 
The 55 percent voting turnout for 

a relatively unadvertised event 
proves that the Senior Fellow 
Award is actually important to the 
class, is not outdated, nor should it 
be put to rest. 
Perhaps Mr .. Ruane is outdated, 

instead. 
Sincerely, 

William Weber 
421 Zahm 

more response 

Editor: 
Don Ruane's analysis of the recent Senior Fellow elections invites a rebuttal. Mr. Ruane would have us believe that Daniel Berrigan's victory and the recent spray painting episode on campus are somehow related. To insinuate that those who voted for Father Berrigan as Senior Fellow condone the actions fo a small group of misguided nihilists armed with spray cans is to me inexcusable. I hesitate to call such biased witing "journalism" but in any case such implicit allegations obviously border on the absurd. 
It is not my purpose in this letter to defend Daniel Berrigan. Indeed, his actions speaK much louder than my words ever could. However, I would like to correct some of the factual errors in Mr. Ruane's column. In the first place. Father Berrigan did not "pour blood on Selective Service files" as Mr. Ruane alleges. Instead he poured home-made napalm on 378 1-A draft files in Catonsville, Maryland on May 17, 1968. I would suggest that as Executive Editor of The Observer, in the future Mr. Ruane get the facts before indulging in his diatribes. In referring to Berrigan's action, Mr. Ruane charges that it "made no sense." In that observation he is entirely correct. But it seems to me that 
that was the whole point of 
Berrigan's action, although Mr. 

Ruane obviously lacks the 
sophistication to grasp i~. It makes 
no sense to pour napalm on draft 
files. but it makes even less sense to pour napalm on children. It is ironic that in American society we imprison those who do the former and pin medals on those who do the latter. 
Not content with chasitisng Berrigan, Mr. Ruane, with the subtlety of a Grand Inquisitor, then proceeds to attack last year's Senior Fellow, William Kunstler. At one point he actually calls Kunstler an "idiot." In light of Mr. Kunstler's distinguished record in civil rights and peace movement cases, 1 would suggest that Mr. Ruane's choice of words applies more to himself than to anyone else. 
Obviously dismayed by the selection of Kunstler and Berrigan as Senior Fellows, Mr. Ruane advocates that the whole program "be put to rest." Before em­barking on such a precipitous project, I think we should examine the Senior Fellow program from the perspective of history. The program itself is an outgrowth of the Patriot of the Year Award. In the past Notre Dame has honored such patriotic paragons as J. Edgar Hoover, General Curtis LeMay <Wallace's running mate in 1968), Bob Hope, General William Westmoreland and Richard M. Nixon. Instead of abolishing the whole program, Mr. Ruane, why don't we just return to the good old days? Dan Kogovsek 710 Flanner 

and more 
Dear Don Ruane, 
Your column on the Senior Class Fellow award warmed the cockles of my heart. Its been a long time since I've heard arguments like that. Imagine that Berrigan, pissing off those nice guys in the Selective Service, and the seniors' effort to embarrass Du Lac -too much! You even made an allusion to Monoply when you talked about civil disobediance futilely breaking the rules. I didn't think anybody played Monopoly any more. 
it's good to know there are still old reactionaries around to stir things up. It's enoughto make an apathetic old radical put on his armband again. Keep up the good work, and maybe, together, we can keep that old revolution going. 
Yours in DuLac, Eric Meyer class of 70 


the bombing 
Editor: Sirens and explosions: 25 "dead" bodies on Notre 
Dame's South Quad and people walked by like nothing was "really" happening. In a sense, those who chose to ignore the "staged" air raid were wise. The whole thing was "unreal". I should know, I was one of the dead and here I am alive writing this letter. Yet--I shall not easily forget lying face down licking dirt wondering if mv fear and loneliness had any meaning in the face of my brother's "reality" in North Vietnam. 
in resistance to the war, Tom Franco 

G.S.U. PARTY 


Saturday, April 29 
with 

Ox Pedal Band 
Admission $1.00 Carroll Hall 
Project Overload 
Editor:  
Howdi  
Latest at  A squared  -Project  
Overload.  
When  -4-21  -4-27  

What -Overload air war com­mur.ications network 
How -call Person-to-oerson the following people <No charge because you won't get to talk to them personally)­
Harold Geneen, Chairman ITT Orig loran, blind bombing, An-Arn 92 (212)-752-6000 
James Binger, Chairman Honeywell BLU 26-13 -frag bomb (612) 332-5200 
Kissinger (20:1)-456-1414 
Westmoreland (202) 545-6700 
Frederick Borsch, chairman GE (212) 750-2000 Keep the peace and spread it. 6M 


war support 
Editor: During the weekend of campus protest against bombing by the Unite<l States in North Vietnam, I noticed this typical sign: 
Stop the bombings 
STRIKE Historical precedent suggests that the implication of this injunction, if not the intention, might be ex­plicitly extended as follows: 
Stop the Bombing 
STRIKE 
Sanction the overrun of South Vietnam by North Vietnam and facilitate the killing of South Vietnamese men, women, nd children. 
D.C.P. Grant 
Sports Research Collection, Memorial Lib. 


ticket donations 
This letter was forwarded to The Observer by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh. President of the University. 
Dear Fr. Hesburgh: 
No doubt you are aware that 
every year a number of Notre 
Dame students sacrifice a home 
game to give their tickets to 
children who otherwise would 
never have an opportunity to see 
one of these great events. Our 
children here at Primary Day 
School have benefited from the 
students' generosity for the past 
four years and, I assure you, Sister 
Marita and I deeply appreciate 
their thoughtfuiness. 

This past year, howe~r. we made a discovery. The day of the game was one of those glorious fall days that make one happy just to be alive. In the past, the weather was always on the cold side. This year, the youngsters went over to the campus about ten o'clock and the students in charge of them went all out to show the little folks a great time. They let them ride their bicycles, took them to their rooms, bought them lunch and even gave each child a little gift. Of course, they saw the game, too. 
On Monday morning when the children came to school, all they could talk about most of the morning was the wonderful time they had with the students on the campus. When we asked them how they enjoyed the game, their enthusiasm seemed to Elecline. Very likely they did enjoy it to some extent but one got the im­pression they did not know enough about football fully to appreciate it. 
Far be it from us to deprive any child from seeing a Notre Dame football game, but if we may speak for the children of our school, we believe an outing on the campus would please them ever so much more. They are really a little young to comprehend all the complexities of football. 
May we take this opportunity to tell you that Notre Dame is one of our most loyal supporters. The students who volunteer to work over here are truly outstanding young people. They are very serious and conscientious about their assignments and the results are very gratifying. 
And not only have the volunteers been helpful, from all indications many of the students have con­tributed financially to the support of the school. For all this, Father Hesburgh, we are sincerely grateful and pray fervently that God will continue to bless Notre Dame and its great student boy. 
Very cordially yours, Sister Evodine Director. 


Mock Convention 
Editor: Congratulations to the Mock Political Convention on its great strides forward in accepting the Gay civil rights plank in its en­tirety and turni.ng back · the minority plank which in effect, would have stolen its meaning. We have affirmed the right of the individual to determine his or her personal sexuality. We have won our major victory here.On to Miami. One Who Cares Friends of Gay <FOG l 
Wyg-ant Floral Co. 
Flowers for all occassions 
327 Lincoln Way 
West 232-3354 


• 


Who is 

Mother's Day May 14 
GET WITH IT! ORDER EARLY 


l LOI\ 1(icdar~S 
Phone 272-2966 
Class of '48 
WE'RE MOVING JUNE 1st COMMUNITY NEWSTAND 

to 113 W. Monroe St. South Bend, Ind. 

l• 
~ 



the observer Thursday, April "27, 1972
f 8 
Irish children hurl stones words at British
I 


by Gloria Emerson everything British --most of all Catholics --many of whom con­
sider themselves at war with 
England --that the children often <c> 1972 New York Times the Armv. 
Belfast, Northern Ireland-­1 act most bitter and most com­Patrick McCarry doesn't think he children S war bative. can manage to kill a British soldier, but he hopes to hurt one of The children's war in Belfast One small boy at a demon­them with a paving stone. Patrick begins in the afternoon when they stration last week of Protestant is 8 years old. are out of school and roaming the women, who were protesting the 
When he is fighting them, treeless streets of squeezed brick London takeover of Northern Patrick screams out his hatred in houses in the working-class Ireland's government as a con­obscene words. So do his friends Catholic areas of the city. Some of cession to "Catholic killers," was Sean and Brandon as they throw their fiercest assaults take place frequently pushed forward by his stones. Not one of them has been on Divis Street, where hundreds of mother, who said: hit by the rubber bullets the families live in a low-rent housing "Six months old he was when the soldiers sometimes fire back, but project and hate the small rooms Fenians came to kill us and burn the boys want some as war that confine them down our house -In my arms he souvenirs. In Belfast -the capital of Nor­was when they came for us." 
The children often yell words thern Ireland where for 32 months Fenian is a word now used by whose meaning they do not un­civil disturbances and bigotry many Protestants to describe all derstand, but they have heard have led to open warfare --many Catholics, regardless of whether their fathers use them. What the children please their parents by they favor the Union of Northern children understand, and share, is acting out the ancient Irish Ireland with the predominantly the fury of their parents toward hatreds. It is among working-class Catholic Irish Republic. 
Paris. negotiators meet Friday; 


No~t~ G~=ek~.:.:r.!.~~~!~~,~~!.~.!~,?.~::
C<c> 1!172 New York Times proposal put to them this morning to hold the 148th session in the old 
Paris, April 26-The four parties by the United States and South Hotel Majestic on the Avenue 
to the Vietnam peace conference Vietnam. The Communist side Kleber. But the delegation 
agreed today to hold a plenary itself had proposed a meeting for chief. William J. Porter, will speak 
session here tomorrow, the first in tomorrow in statements it made first and his side has served notice 
more than a month. last week. that the first order of business 
At the same time, North Viet-On the basis of statements by would be discussion of measures to 
nam announced that Le Due Tho, both sides, the agreement to meet put an end "to the flagrant North 
the politburo member who last was likely to be the only one they Vietnamese invasion of South 
year negotiated in secret with would reach and the session Vietnam." 
Henry S. Kissinger, President tomorrow threatened to be a highly In their statement announcing 
Nixon's National Security Adviser, polemical one. Observers noted, their willingness to join the 
would return to Paris shortly. however, that the resumption of Americans at the table, the North 
Representatives of the Com-the semipublic conference in Vietnamese rejected "all lying 
munist side -North Vietnam and which the press is fully bri~fed, assertions about. wha~ the United 
the Provisional Revolutionary could lead to the recommendement States calls the mvaswn of South 
Government of South Vietnam of private talks between the Vietnam by North Vietnam and 
<VietCong) repeating their stated United States and North Vietnam. about a tacit understanding et-
desire to settle the conflict The American delegation put cetera." 
The United States insists that 
there was a tacit understanding 
that North Vietnam would not
Secretary General refused 
cross the demilitarized zone in 
return for a halt to the American 
bombing in 1968. Hanoi insists that as a Vietnam negotiator the bombing halt was un­
conditional. 

by Robert Alden Waldheim said: "I will always As reports continued to arrive ( c I 1!172 New York Times take the initiative, but, of course, I here of the effectiveness of the 
Communist offensive in South
can only produce results if the 

llnitt•d Nations, N.Y., April 26-­member states cooperate. Vietnam, neither North Vietnam Secretary General Waldheim said "If member states are not in­nor the Vietcong gave any in­
today that he had made overtures didcation of a compromising at­
terested in the help of the United 

to mediate in the Vietnam war but Nations, that's up to them. But titude. The talks were suspended had been turned down. then they shouldn't come to me or by the United States March 23 on 
"For the time being, both sides the ground that the Communists
to the United Nations and complain 

have indicated to me that they do about the organization." were not negotiating seriously and not want to accept my good of­were using the sessions only for
While taking no side in the

fices," the Secretary General said propaganda. Later the United
Vietnam conflict, Waldheim

in a long personal interview in States said it would not negotiate
emphasized that as far as war

which he talked about his "at gunpoint."
itself was concerned, he was not at

philosophy and approach to the all neutral.
World Organization. Nor was there any indication of
"The Vietnam war is a very

"I have had a very hard life and I the kind of negotiation demanded
bloody war and it means a great

have no illusions about the world," by Washington and Saigon -an
sacrifice for the American

Waldheim said. "I know what life examination of all proposals and a
people," the Secretary General

is and I know how complicated give-and-take discussion leading to
said. "You see, I am the father of

things are. But I also know that we compromise. The Communists
three children. I know what it­

must make an enormous effort to called on the Americans to
means. I was in the war. I can tell 

stop the Vietnam war." negotiate "seriously," but on the
you that anyone who has been in a

Waldheim said that his long sole basis of their previously
war can tell you what a war

experience as an Austrian publicized seven-point peace plan. 
means.

diplomat and a briefer turn in The two key points un­
"I think it is the obligation of our are 
Austrian politics had provided him conditional American withdrawal
generation, which has seen the

with a useful background for a and the removal of the Ad­
horrors of war to do everything

delicate and difficult role in world ministration of President Nguyen
possible to avoid a war or, if there

affairs. Van Thieu. A provisional coalition, 
is already a war. to stop it by all

"The Secretary General cannot in which the Communists would be 
possible means. If I offer my good 

force issues," Waldheim said. "He represented, would then hold
offices, I do it out of a deep con­

has to be neutral. He has to be as elections.
viction."

objective as possible. I will tell you 
frankly, you know what happened 
during the Congo crisis: Dag 
Applications for Mardi Gras
Hammarskjold was very active in 
this dispute and he involved the 

Charity Chest Funds

United Nations deeply in that 
conflict and the result was, of 

submitted to

course, a deep crisis. "I don't know what would have happened to him if he had sur­
Charity Chest Funds 

vived. As a result of Mr. Ham­
marskjold's action we have had a 
Student Govt Office 

financial crisis at the United 
Nations that has lasted to this 
Box 639 

day." As far as the subject of war 
Notre Dame, Indiana 

mediation was concerned, 
Waldheim said that the day was 
surely coming, and "very soon," 


Deadline: May 1, 1972

when the public and "certain 
nations" would "criticize me and 

Information : 7668

the United Nations and say that the 
United Nations is useless and no 
good." 
HAPPY DAY CARE CENTRE 
cordially invites everyone to an OPEN HOUSE CHILDREN ART EXHIBITION on Sunday April 30th between 3-5 pm in St. Mary's Clubhouse 


llltllN-MIIUIY 

Low Priced! Setter Idea• Male• .....,Can. 72 KACS · 73 
'The Little Sexy European Car! MERCURY 


CAPRI 
72 KACS. M 
Capri 2-dr. Sport Coupe 
COME SEE METRO AND ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL PURCHASE PLAN FOR COLlEGE GRADUATES 
Protestant violence 
Protestant domination in Nor­thern Ireland --whose six counties were separated from the rest of the island in 1920 by an act which led to independence for the South and autonomy for the North -became an issue in 1968. Claiming discrimination in housing and mployment, Catholics demon­strated for civil rights, evoking counterdemonstrations by Protestant extremists. 
British Army units came to Ulster in 1969, on a law-and-order mission. Last March the British government suspended the Belfast government and imposed direct rule from London, angering militant Protestants. 
Gangs of Protestant youths, who call themselves the village tartans in honor of the Scot Presbyterian settlers who came to Ulster and were given the richest lands taken from the natives, often menace Catholics in neighborhoods where both live. 
"The Irish know how to hate," Mrs. Monica Patterson, an Englishwoman, said recently. "The young ones are all lined up on one side or another. They know who they identify with and whom they hate." 
Mrs. Patterson is the head of a peace group called Women Together, whose members are of both religions. Mrs. Patterson said one of its aims was to prevent street fighting among the young. 
Few parents, however, seem to 
encourage children to be neutral. 
more violence 
The level of violence in Belfast is high. Armed soldiers patrol the streets. A new wing of the outlawed Irish Republican Army, called the Provisionals, carry out a bombing campaign to destroy Belfast, so it will no longer provide profits to Britain, and a guerrilla campaign to harass, hunt down and kill British soldiers and Irish policemen. 

Some Catholic parents defend their children's aggressions by blaming it on British plicy and on the actions of British soldiers. Interned without trial for eight months as at. I.R.A. suspect, the 30-year-old father of three children said: 
"They'd never seen a soldier before, and then they came to our home to arrest Daddy and drag him off. And if someone said to the kids, 'Now don't be throwing stones,' the kids would say, 'We'll stop when they bring my Daddy back."' 
They often do not stop, however, even when their fathers come back. 
It is the emotional heritage of many Catholic children to hate the British, and to continue the deep quarrel with the Protestants. 

One way from JFK. London, Paris, or Amsterdam. Round trip $195. 
Student power does it! Our inter­national service just for students gets you special jet air fares to and throughout Europe. Confirmed seats, pre-scheduled departures. Complimentary meals and bar service. Avoid higher summer rates by booking now. Also flights to Tel Aviv, Zurich, Frankfurt, Rome, Athens, and others. 
For full information call~­(212) 986-8980 or mail coupon 
National Union of Students Travel Service, Inc. 
30 E. 42nd St., N.Y., N.Y. 10017 
Name 
---·-------­Street--------­
CitY-~-------­
State & ZiP-------­


The SLC dies a long, slow death 
by Jim Dixon stagnation. only the Board of Trustees. Any a debate over the words that 
Observer Staff Reoorter One estimation of the situation body which cannot be effective people used, that entire ideas 'The Student Life Council is was given by a nominee for faculty enough to change its own by-laws would become submerged." functionally dead. Its remains representative to the Council who when the need is there doesn't An off-campus rep, Jerry 
can be viewed at amy time: a pile wished to remain anonymous. He deserve to exist." O'Connor stated that "Unless the of resolutions, fact sheets and stated: "Frankly I don't even Former SBP John Barkett Council can override the dean of s~udies. The bureaucratic mon~>ter know what they've done this year. pointed to the size of the Council. students or the vice president of died a slow death by strangulation. I haven't noted that they've been a "There are just too many people on student affairs by a two-thirds or a Lists of reasons can be given for noted force on campus. The the SLC. The membership should :14 vote, it has no power or function. 
the demise of the Council, but the problem is that I'm not willing to be reduced from 24 to 12, and the The administration just uses it to 
main objective now is to single out blame the people on the SLC It meetings limited to, only a , couple show that we have democratic the chief cause of the Council's may be that they are so strapped a year. But there is so much that government around here." by limitations on them." could be done ... so many facets of Faculty opinion of the council 
"You can only do so much. With campus life to be exphred if the was demonstrated at the faculty teaching a full schedule and SLC only had the initiative or senate meeting last week at which counciling students why, all the direction." no faculty member could be administrative duties that the SLC Other Council members noted persuaded to run for represen­entails would be a full-time job in the general disharmony of the tative to the SLC. Dr. Paul Rath­itself. When the SLC was SLC. North Quad rep John Cullen burn, campus AAUP vice­organized, those who were on it, noted "There would be so much of president, noted the cause as the especially the faculty, should have spirit of the meeting and explained been given reduced teaching loads. "One great evil on any campus is If the SLC was to take things to set up committees so as to ap­seriously in performing its duties pear totally democratic, but then and responsibilities, the faculty to ignore those committees or to cannot carry a full load." circumvent them when the time Cullen: "There would be so much 
comes to make substantive 
of a debate over the words ... that Observer Insight decisions. The central question entire ideas would be submerged."
that faces fhe university is In rebuttal, the minutes of the governance and the sharing of student commissioners.
SLC meetings state tha't the governance." 
Petitioning for student as well as

Council merged the traffic The viewpoints of all those polled violations boards of Notre Dame as to reasons for the death of the faculty representation on the and St. Mary's and also suc­SLC seem to lead to this idea of Dr. Board of Trustees has been cessfully sent sanctions proposed Rathburn. The central question proposed by Bob Kersten and by the Board of Trustees back to now facing the SLC is governance Floyd Kezele. If this should fail that organization in the fall. The and the sharing of governance. then the Academic Council would 
Kezele: "The Council has been minutes also note, however, the One alternative indicated by those be the successor to the unclear undercut by parliamentary battle that the Council undertook polled is to revise the composition task of the SLC. finagling." with SMC over representation of the Coucncil. Instead of just any Governance and the sharing of 
governance is both an abstract and 

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 which resulted in the Board of student or just any professor or 
Trustees denying a seat to administrator on the Council, it an extremely difficult subject with representative-elect Ann Marie would be composed of the which to deal. But if student power 
Meningitis scare Tracy. Later, the Council was told President of the University, the is to be a reality here it is the by the Board to seat three SMC Provost, the college deans, a subject the SLC must now un­representatives for the upcoming faculty representative from each dertake. The first SLC shared
very nearly over merger. In December, a letter college and the new board of 
governance. The present SLC has from the office of the Provost the potential, if anyone cares 
enough to try.

The recent outbreak of removed these same represen­Meningitis on the Notre Dame tatives. Campus seems to be almost ended. Regarding SMC representation 
According to NO Physician on the Council, Floyd Kezele, SLC University chooses Schlaver .. as 
Francis Sellers, "If no more cases vice-chairman and serving his arise in the next 24 hours, we're second year on the Council noted: 
safe." "The Council has been undercut by 
co-ordinator of volunteer work 
He also commented that parliamentary finagling. Consider Morrissey Hall resident Mike the case to change the by-laws to Recognizing the increasing Notre Dame currently embrace presence of a full-time director will 
give St. Mary's full membership on 

Galvin Life Science Center 
Kearse is out of isolation and involvment of students in com­more than 20 distinct programs of facilitate the transfer of activities watching TV. Dr. Sellers, com­the SLC, after the Board of munity volunteer programs, the participation in community af­from graduating seniors to in­mented "the only thing bothering Trustees tried to get rid of them. It University of Notre Dame has fairs. Several hundred students coming students with a minimum Mike is what will happen to his was ruled out of order because the appointed Rev. David E. Schlaver, work regularly in such groups as of delay and confustion, he noted. grades. SLC could not change its by-laws, C.S.C., to the newly created the Big Brother program, In addition, the coordinator will OllllmnniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIII position· of coordinator of student Volunteer Probation Officer arrange training programs for volunteer services. program, Northern Indiana students going out to work in the The appointment of the 1966 Childrens' Hospital, Family and community, seek financing and Notre Dame graduate, who has Children's Center of Mishawaka, transportation if neceassary served during the past year as Council for the Retarded, . Drug provide a feedback system so that to be dedicated Friday assistant pastor of Christ the King Abuse Center, Heads tart, Sister students and administrators can 
parish in the South Bend area, was Marita's Day School, and Neigh­evaluate their services, and act as 
A Nobel Prize-winning p.m. Friday (April 28) ~ the announced by Rev. Thomas E. borhood Study Help. liaision between the campus and biochemist will delirr the University of Notre Dame's Blantz, C.S.C., vice president for The position of coordinator was the community. Dedicatory Address forth Paul V. Library Auditorium. student affairs, and will be ef­created, according to Father Father Schlaver, 29, was born in Galvin Life Science Cente at 2:30 fective September 1. Father Blantz, to assure continuity in Kewanee, Ill. and his family later
Dr. Edward L. Tatum, professor 

Schlaver was ordained in these programs year after year, moved to Mount Propect, Ill. Heof biology at the Rockefeller December, 1971, after advanced and to direct the efforts of student served on the staff of AveUniver::.ity in New York, was co­
Law school will winner the Nobel Prize study in Washington, D.C. and in volunteers tolhe areas where they Maria magazine while attending
of for Medicine a1.d Physiology in 1958. Holland. His research in the field of genetics Student volunteer services at
move to old bio 

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::;:::~:~:;
and the metabolism of bacteria, yeast and molds is aimed at a clear

building this fall understanding of how genes Bird to receive 
determine, at the molecular level, With the dedication of Galvin the characteristics of living Life Science Building this organisms. Nutting Award 
weekend, Leo Corbaci, Dean of In 1953 he received the Remsen Administration, announced that Award of the American Chemical 
Mr. 0. Bartholomew Bird has
after a year's deliberation, the Society for his contributions to the been this year's
chosen as

former Biology Building will house then new field of biochemical 
recipient of the Willis D. Nutting
sections of the law school next genetics. Tatum holds honorary 
Award, given each year to the 
year. degrees from the University of 
General Program senior who "has
_ "The second and third floors of Wisconsin. Rutgers University. 
contributed .nost to the education
the building will be used during Gustavus Adolphus College, 
of his fellow students."

construction of the new law school Trinity College and the University was established in 
BE'I'IER LOOKING AT UNION 
This award

addition. of Notre Dame. His talk is open to 
1970 by the alumni of the General
In announcing the decision, the public. 
Program of Liberal Studies in
Corbaci stressed that the floors A member of the National 
honor of Professor Willis D. 

with CONTACT LENSES

would not be permanently tran­Science Board of the National 
Nutting who retired from the
sferred to the law school. He said Science Foundation from 1965-68, 
General Program in that year
that the floors were selected Tatum now serves on the scientific 
after two decades of distinguished 
No hassle. Slip into the action with better vision

because they involve "minimum advisory panel of Research to 
teaching in the program. The 
without bother. Contact lenses help you see better,

renovation." Prevent Blindness, the National 
recipient is chosen by an election
Use of the first floor has not yet Foundation, and the City of Hope 
keep you looking great. Feel free to join the action

among seniors and faculty of the
been decided. Reportedly, it will Medical Center. With Dr. A. 
with contact lenses ... You get better looking at

program and the award was
be leased to Indiana University for Newberger, he serves as co-editor 
presented on Wednesday, April 
Union.

the first and fourth years of their of "Frontiers of Biology" and is 
26th by Professor Nutting.

medical education program. The also on the advisory board of 
Mr. Barry Bird, this year's
second and third years would be at "Pe,s:spectives in Biology and 
recipient. is from South Bend,
the IU Medical Complex in In­Medicine." 
~~ 

Indiana and is the son of Professor
dianapolis. The Galvin Life Science Center 
---~ Phone

and Mrs. Otto Bird. Mr Bird will 
Corbaci declines to confirm the was constructed largely through a 
Phone 259-1968 ~ 

enter graduate study in philosophy 
875_5183

IU deal. Acknowledging the gift from Mrs. Virginia Galvin 
in September at Northwestern
possibility of the plan, he said that Piper in memory of her first 
2201 N. Division, 4107 S. Main St.

University on a full tuition and
it was too premature for such a husband, Paul V. Galvin, founder 
living expense scholarship. 
Mishawaka

decision to be announced. of Motorola, Inc. 








• 









QdWileQ 


goQe BQd spri.Qg bUrst OpOQ tile lttQd, tbepeoplerejoiced aqd<lrBQkof
spri.Qg ...·.·· e.'' 
Start your own spring celebration with Tyrolia, California white wine and natural fruit flavors. The new wine that captures the spirit of spring. Pure wine that's as light and bright as that first spring day. With the crisp, clean taste of oranges, lemons and flowery spices. Drink Gallo Tyrolia, the wine of spring. 
And celebrate! 
C;1llo \'in1•1 ilrds. ,\1odesto. Cal iiornia 


Thursday, P,pril 27,_1972 the observer 
11 


I Irish seek consistency on offense 
by Vic Dorr 

Notre Dame's football team rolled into its last week-and-a-half of Spring practice yesterday, and Ara Parseghian's squad spent the mid-week scrimmage searching for the offensive consistency which has eluded them during the past several days. 
Their search was only partly successful. ND's number one offensive team awakened its scoring potential 
Irish nine hits road 
by Stan Urankar 

Notre Dame's chances for an NCAA tournament berth will be laid on the line this weekend when the Irish travel south for a crucial five game, three day road series. 
ND, sporting a 7-11 mark on the year, faces Butler in a doubleheader in Indianapolis this afternoon before pushing on to Cincinnati. In the Queen City, the Irish will play a single game with the Bearcats on Friday and a twin­bill with Xavier Saturday af­ternoon. 
"Detroit, Cincinnati, and Xavier are the main teams that fight us for the independent spot in the District 4 playoffs," veteran Irish coach Jake Kline noted yeaterday. "Our showing against them could decide whether or not we make the tournament." 
The Irish were slated to face the Titans in a single game last Monday in Detroit, but were forced to cancel the game due to in­clement weather. The contest will not be made up. 
"Inconsistency of pitching has definitely been our biggest disappointment," Kline went on to remark. "Jim Noe has pitched a shutout, Ed Hrabcsak has a shutout and Rick Eich has thrown a one-hitter, but they all can come out another day and get walloped." 
The 77-year old tutor went on to point out that one big pitcher would be the key to the Irish's problems. "If we had one good outstanding pitcher who could consistently blow it by the opponents, we'd be in good shape." 
early in the first quarter of the scrimmage, and shoved across two TD's before the initial period ended. But the first offense was held scoreless after their early spurt. 
Two would-be touchdowns were called back because of penalties, and official's flags and untimely turnovers halted several other promising drives during the warm, sunny afternoon. 
The number two offense didn't­fare any better. The second "0" made a game out of the scrimmage by scoring with 1:22 left to play in regulation time, but--hindered by penalties, turnovers, and the number one defense--could generate little besides that. 
Pat Steenberge opened the scrimmage at the helm of the number two blues, and on the second play of the afternoon he aimed a left-side flare pass at split end Pete Demerle. Demerle was hit just as he caught the pass, and he lost possession of the ball. The first defense recovered on the 31­yard. line, and the offense took over. 
They drove to the score in nine plays. Cliff Brown started the surge by hitting fullback Andy Huff with a screen pass, and then Huff--on two tries--carried the ball to the gold 17. Darryll Dewan gained six yards on a sweep, and John Cieszkowski--returning to action after recovering from a thigh contusion--hulled his way to 
the five. 
Four plays later, with fourth and goal from the one, Dewan started a sweep left and then cut.back into the end zone for the touchdown. Bob Thomas added the PAT with 9:45 left in the first period. 

The first offense scored again as soon as they regained possession. Following Gary Diminick's punt return to the blue 42-yard line, Brown sent Greg Hill on a pattern out of the backfield and hit him with a pass that carried to the gold 
37. After Diminick was stopped for no gain, qb Tom Clements picked up 11 on a keeper, Hill got seven more on a counter-play, and Cisco dived to the 16 for the first down. 


OBSERVER 

SPORTS 

Netters whitewash WMU 
by Eric Kinkopf 

The Notre Dame tennis team extended its win streak to six straight yesterday, dumping the Western Michigan netters, 9-o, at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
The Irish had little trouble with the Broncos, as only one of the nine 11atches went the maximum three ;ets. 
That extended play was a .mmber one singles duel between Buster Brown and WM's John Lamerato. Buster rebounded, after dropping the first set 4-6, to take the game point 7-5, 6-4. 
Mike Reilly, playing in the number two poisition in place of John Allare coasted by Jerry. Smith 6-3, 6-2. 
Brandon Walsh dropped Pat Birney at the number three spot 6­0, 7-6, and Rob Schefter clipped Rog Thurman 6-4, 6-2. 
Freshman John Carrico stopped Denis Keith 6-2, 6-1, and classmate Chris Kane kept his singles record unblemished with a 6-3, 6-1 win over Ken Bir. 
Coach Fallon mixed and mat­

ched for the doubles play in the 
abscence of Allare and came up 
with a few different combinations-­
and three victories. 
Mike Reilly. and John Carrico, 

who usually play at the number 
two doubles spot moved up to the 

number one position and made 
little work of the new challenge, 
defeating the WM combo 6-2, 6-o. 
Brown and Walsh, one of the new 

combos, stopped Birney-Thurman 
in straight sets 6-4, 6-4, and Kane 
and Schefter wrapped up the meet 
and the shutout with a 6-2, 6-2 win 
over· Keith-Bir. 

gold 19--but a second major penalty <holding) took most of the steam out of their attack. 
The Brown-Clements unit mounted another threat at the start of the third period. Huff, from his own 17, slashed up the middle for 18 yards to the 35. Dewan then broke around left end and reached the gold 27 before being dragged down from behind. Huff carried to the 12, but a second holding in­fraction penalized the first-line blues back to the 35. 
Brown tried to regain some of the lost yardage on a scramble, and was tackled well short of the first down. But the defense was penalized for a personal foul on the play, and the offense was given position on the 13. Huff hulled his way to the seven, and Dewan scored on a sweep left on the next play. But an illegal procedure call nullified this touchdown, and the first "0" never really came close again. 
The number two offense got their touchdown late in the final period, as quarterbacks Pat Steenberge and Bil Nyrop led their team on an 85-yard scoring march against the first-line "D." Halfback Eric Penick got the big gainer of the drive--a 22-yard scamper from his own 34 to the gold 44, but much of 

Brown drove his team to the 10, the key yardage came on keeper and got the score himself when-­plays by the two quarterbacks. on fourth and four from the 10--he After Penick spun to the four, scooted into the end zone on the Steenberge rolled towards the keeper play. Thomas added the right side-line on a keeper. But he conversion at 12:14 of the first found his path blocked, and quarter. scrambled around in the backfield 
Defensive back Ken· Schlezes until he saw AI Samuels open in the opened the second period in end zone. Steenberge's pass to electrifying fashion. Schlezes Samuels was perfect, and the Irish 
fielded Brian Doherty's punt on his qb snuck into the end zone himself own 47, dodged to the left side-line, to make good on the two-point and bolted 53 yards for what would conversion try. have been a touchdown. But a The Irish will scrimmage again clipping call negated the return, on Saturday afternoon, and then and brought the ball back to the will go through a week of full blue 32-yard line. practice in preparation for the 
The first offense still put a drive annual Blue-Gold game on May together--they drove as far as the sixth. 
Jim Donaldson 
:=========================================================;===:===========================::=:::::; 


The Irish Eye 

::=====================================================================================·=·=·=·=·=·===Spring Football 
Ifit had been a bit warmer yesterday afternoon, sun-drenched Notre Dame Stadium would have been a nice spot for a nap. There was a football scrimmage down on the field but it was the chilly breeze, rather than an abundance of exciting events on the gridiron, that forestalled any thoughts of a pre-dinnertime snooze. 
Only three touchdowns were scored during yesterday's game-type scrimmage, two by the first offense in the first 12 minutes of play and one by the second unit late in the fourth quarter. In between, the end zones were as empty as the library during semester break. 
Yesterday's workout marked the second session in a row that the Irish have failed to generate much offense. The first unit was able to push across just a pair of scores in regulation time last Saturday, although both the first and second clubs reached paydirt in an extra quarter of play. 
Lack of consistency, turnovers, and costly penalties have combined to hamper the offense's performances of late. Interceptions have been a particular bugaboo for the Irish. Cliff Brown and Tom Clements, sharing the number one quarterback job, each had two passes picked off yesterday. Mike Naughton swiped both of Clements' errant tosses while Dan O'Toole and Timmy Rudnick grabbed Brown aerials. 
Still, it would appear to be merely a matter of time until coach Ara Parseghian welds a potent attacking force. There's certainly an abundance of available talent, especially in the backfield. 
Andy Huff continues to impress at the fullback spot with his hard running and blocking skill and is currently the front-runner for the top job, just ahead of bruising John Cieszkowski. Recuperating from a bruised thigh that kept him out of the early spring drills, Cieszkowski is beginning to run like the "Cisco" of last season who was always good for those tough yards. 
Darryl Dewan, Greg Hill and Gary Diminick continue to head the list of halfback candidates but could be pressured by frosh speedster Eric Penick and another yearling, AI Samuels, who has scored a touchdown for the second team in the last scrimmages, one coming on an 80-yard run and the other on a four-yard pass from Pat Steenberge. 
The Irish have capable wide receivers in Willie Townsend, whose catching skills are reaching a parity with his moves, Bobby Washington and Pete Demmerle while Mike Creaney, when he manages to shake the injury jinx that has forced him to miss almost all of spring practice, will handle the tight end spot. 
The weakest spot is, like last spring, at quarterback. Incumbent .l;liff Brown has looked like the best of the crop so far but has yet to perform like a player who started six games last fall. 
Clements has been sharing the first unit signal calling duties with Brown but still has a lot to learn. He has quick feet and runs well but has had problems hitting his pass receivers regularlY: -Pat Steen­berge and hockey convert Bill Nyrop have been running the number two club but haven't done anything that would thrust them into the limelight. Steenberge has yet to turn in an outstanding performance that might catch Parseghian's eye and Nyrop, although improving rapidly, still lacks experience. 
The Irish have one more scrimmage slated for this coming Saturday before entering their final week of drills in preparation for the annual Blue-Gold game on May 6. 
12 


Humphrey, McGovern lead in Democratic race 

New York. April 26--Sens. Hubert H. Humpnrey and George McGovern, the twu front-runners for the democratic presidential nommation, came out of the Pennsylvania Primary Tuesday with strongly different con­stituencies and with their con­trasting public images even more 
sharply drawn. 

1\ New York Times cross­sectilln survey of vuter:. disclosed significant, often striking con­trasts between supporters of the two men with respect to age, race, residence, religion, ideology, image and issues. 
Compared with McGovern, Humphrey did considerably better Tuesday m the cities, among more conservative democrats, catholics, blacks, older adults, blue collar workers and voters impressed by governmental ex­periencf' 
McGovern, by contrast, did considerably better in the suburbs and small towns, and among liberals, women, young first-time voters and those concerned over issues, notably the Vietnam War and business influence on government. 
Because McGovern campaigned only slightly in Pennsylvania, it is not possible to assess in whose direction these contrasting ad­vantages weigh as public attention turns to the Ohio Primary next week. 
But the survey strongly suggested that, after a campaign characterized by numerous candidates and frequent voter confusion, clear lines of choice are now becoming apparent. 
The survey was conducted by the Times and Daniel Yankelovich, Inc., a leading social research firm. A total of 414 registered Democrats were interviewed as they left the polls in 42 scien­tifically selected precincts in 10 Pennsylvania counties. 
Among other findings of the survey were the followings: --As in past surveys, the VIetnam War remained the primary issue troubling voters. Two-thirds of those surv7yed identified it as their dominant public concern. --In marked contrast to survey findings in Wisconsin, however, "The Social Issue" --rather than economic conditions --came close behind the war. Nearly two-thirds of the Pennsylvania voters ex­pressed serious condern about crime and about drug abuse by young people. --The youth vote, which the survey suggested as about 10 per cent of the total in Pennsylvania, was sharply lower than in other primaries. In Florida it was ex­timated at about 15 per cent and in Wisconsin at about 20 per cent. 


George Wallace divided about 90 small sampling of 39 Jewish voters--One explanation for Sen. Edmund 

S. Muskie's poor showing in per cent of the Slavomc vote nearly was split evenly betweenr McGovern and Humphrey with a
Pennsylvania appeared to be his equally. 
--Catholic voters, who also might few going to MuskiP.

failure to score heavily among have been expected to favor --Voters from Union householdsPennsylvania's heavy con­Muskie, appeared to divide their also appeared to split among thecentration Jf Polish-Americans. 
votes in the :same proportions as candidates in the same proportionsThe survey indicated that he, 

Humphrey. and Alabama Gov. the electorate generally. Th£ as the electorate. 






JEANS. 
Levi's Denims, stra1ights and flares. • .$8 Uncut cords .. $11 Corduroys ... • $9 
JEANS! 
Spyder Double Knits .. $12.99 Levi's Knits, hip huggers, patch pockets .. $18 

JEANS! 
Farah Knits and Hlerringbones • • • • $14 

JEANS! 
Seersucker for summer • • • • • 


PAY JUNE, JULY & AUGUST 
No interest or carrying charge will be added ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 




' 






