
On The Inside 
Shades of BigBrother: an editorial .... page 
A case for Nixon .... page 8 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Thursday, November 2, 1972
Vol VII No. 40 
Henry defends political realisDl 
Residence halls to recieve improvements 
Jim Grt'sser 
amounts will probably be determined by the
Staff Reporter Dame." The members of the committee are 
committee before Thanksgiving. He added that 
Chris Singleton from Farley, Pat McLaughlin
most of the proposals were already in. 
from Pangborn, Fred Baranowski from Holy
The residence halls will soon recive $55 100 to Cross, and Kim Magnotta from Badin.
Jeselnick said that the HPC is "hoping that the
be used for hall improvements, as was re~ealed 
University would match an unrestricted grant of
at the Hall Presidents Council meeting on the same amount ($5,100) as they did last year." The second committee will look for possibleTuesday, October 31. 
alternative methods of selection of who will have The major portion of the money will come The Council also formed two committees on to room off-campus and who will remain on­directly from the University. It will be rationed campus. Greg Thomas from St. Ed's, Rich
the subject of student housing for next year. The 
out to each hall on the basis of need and is to be Pyfer from Zahm, and Jeselnick are the
purpose of the first committee is to evaluate the 
used for hall renovation, according to Steve members of this committee.
stay hall system. Jeselnick said that they will
Jeselnick, executive coordinator of the HPC. 
examine ''the benefits of the system and the support it gives to the community life at Notre
Each hall must present a proposal to University Treasurer, Fr. Jerome Wilson, with 
Questionaire Explained 
the approval of the hall rector. The proposal must include the specifics of the plan for rennovation. Jeselnick quoted Wilson as saying that after the proposals were all submitted the 
Mike Hess from the Student Government money would be allocated "very shortly." COUP committee also spoke to the council to 
explain the purpose of the COUP questionaireThe remaining $5,100 is the amount allocated that was distributed yesterday. Saying that they to the Hall Life Fund by Student Government. 
were not "on a witch hunt", Hess explained their Each hall must also st:bmit a request stating how desire to find out what gripes the students hadmuch money it wants and how the funds will be regarding the practices of profit-makingused. The money cannot be used for "hall organizations on campus.
maintenance." The committee to oversee the allocations will consist of Jeselnick, Butch Ward representing the Board of Commissioners, Fr. It was then brought up that, on the Andy Ciferni, Ron Paja, Fisher hall president, questionaire, Student Government should have and Kevin Griffin, Grace hall president. been listed as one of the groups that students 
could have gripes against. It was also suggested that the r£ sults of the questionaire should be Appropriations by Thanksgiving examined carefully because of the probability 
that only th~ dissatisfied would fill out the form. The hall proposals, Jeselnick said must be This could possibly lead to a one sided view of
Hall Presidents Council discusses plans on giving more
submitted within the next two week~ and the student opiiiion.
money to the halls. 

by Maria Gallagher Saint Mary's Editor 
President Edward Henry of Saint Mary's, himself a former politician, last night defended politics and politicians, speaking on "The Role of Ethics and Prudence in Politics" in Carroll Hall. 
Henry, former mayor of St. Cloud Minnesota, based his lecture on the hypothesis that "the politician both before and after he gets into office is a stange and little understood animal," and attempted to present a case which would leave the audience with a "slightly less jaundiced picture of what makes the animal jump." 
Two opposing viewpoints, both extreme, contribute to a distortion of the politicians proper imate, Henry claimed. He is the target of scholars, novelists, and humorists who construe him as less than honorable; or else held up as an example, a social reformer, or an individual responsible for "weighing interests not his own." 
politics of compromise 
The real politic~l. being, while often appearing weak and a practitiOner of the "politics of com­P.rof!lise." may actually be excercising 
political prudence" as established by Aristotle observed Henry. ' 
"Young people have exalted notions because !hey have not yet been humbled by life or learned Its necessary limitations...they would always rather do noble deeds than useful ones " quotedHenry from Aristotle. ' 
Pie went on to establish that "Democratic politics..cannot produce pure solutions simply because it is politics of consensus. And to get consens~s , you c?mpromise. And compromise results m watermg down the logically best solution,:• thereby r~tionalizing the position of the candidate who shies away from rigid policy statements. 
Citing Leo Strauss, Henry noted that .. Civil life (the arena in which the politician must win approval) requires a fundamental compromise between wisdom and folly." 
To ~chie~e this, Henry explained that "ab­sol~te Idealism and absolute cynicism" are to be a vmded by the wise statesman. 

Dr. Edward Henry " ... the politician both before and aftf'r hf' gf'ts into office is a strange and little un­derstood animal." 
absolute idealism 
"The experienced politician and perhaps the most effective politician knows the traps of political campaigns and avoids them, while his less experienced adversary may well tilt with the windmill in true Don Quixote style," Henry advised. 
Survival versus values is a torment which the practicing statesman must live with, according to Henry. The difficulty, he feels, lies in recognizing how far one can go without being defeated or ineffective. 
Henry then questioned if this was one of the problems George McGovern has run into. 
"The volatile · questions of reform; the dispelling of myths; the challenge of con­ventional wisdom which were so appealing to an elite in the primary became radical and up­setting to the mass of the electorate later whose 
myths and prejedices are being pricked im­
prudently," he noted. 
· Moving to the topic of ethics, Henry discussed 
its relation to prudence in that "the weighing of 
what is good or evil depends to a great extent on 
the conditions or circumstances surrounding the 
act." 
This he dwelled on at length, citing examples 
to illustrate how on occasion the common good 
can override marginal injustices. 
"The politician does not operate in a vacuum, . free of constraints, with plen~y of leisure to 
examine the ethical and technical implications 
of proposed actions. Not only does he face the 
moral ambiguities present with inadequate 
information. Speed is the enemy of deliberation, 
but speed or dispatch in decision making is 
frequently the prerequisite for maintaining the 
morale of an organization or city or state or 
nation." 
honesty and dishonesty 
Henry summarized his talk by concluding that 
honesty and dishonesty are seldom unam­
biguous, except in the classroom where the 
"uncomfortable and messy circumstances that 
worry the practicing politician can be dismissed 
in arriving at unambiguous and self-righteous 
conclusions. Absolute justice assumes om­
niscience and total disinterestedness. However, 
human being runs government, not angels." 
"Men and measures in public life, therefore, 
are morally ambiguous. All public policy has a 
bitter-sweet character. · In politics there is a 
constant battle between survival and values. To 
be pliable enough to survive in a campaign or 
within an organization and also to succeed in 
effectuating moral purpose --this is the glory 
and dilemna of public service." 
The talk was followed by commentary by 
Louis Tondreau and Richard Bohan of the SMC 
government department and a question-answer 
session. Henry drew a laugh when a student 
asked him whether he supported ·George 
McGovern, and he replied: 'I don't believe it 
would be politically prudent to answer that 
question." 
The lecture was one of a series entitled "The 
American Scene,"co-sponsoredby the Education 
and Humanistic Studies Departments. 

the observer Thursday, November 2, 1972 
warld 

briefs 
(c) 1!}72 New York Times 

Washington -Foreign minister Long Boret of Cambodia said Wendesday that he was "optimistic" about the future of his country after receiving a detailed briefing from Secretary of State Rogers on the current diplomatic efforts to settle the Indochina War. He refused to elaborate on his statement, but administration officials said that a key element in his discussion with Rogers concerned American efforts to halt the fighting in Cambodia and Laos as well as Vietnam. 
Saigon--The United States command in Saigon reported that it had cut back sharply the number of B-52 missions over North and South Vietnam. Most of the heavy bombers were sent instead to attack communist troop positions and infiltration routes in both Laos and Cambodia. 
New York-Ezra Pound, the controversial American -born poet who had a deep influence on writers and poets, died at the age of 87 in a Venice hospital. He was sympathetic to Hitler and Mussolini during . . w World War II, and was confined to a mental hospital in the United States for the years after the war. 
New York-Sen. George McGovern, campaigning in New York city's garment center, told a crowd estifmated at 20,000, that the Nixon administration had made "undercover deals" with big business but "had nothing" for more than five million unemployed Americans. 
Washington -President Nixon described himself in a campaign radio speech as the most generous spender in history on urban problems. He said that while his predecessors had fruitlessly spent billions on the problems of cities, he had spent even more but had made it count because he had cut red tape and decentralized decision­making and restored power to local authorities. 
an campu• taday 
3:25 -lecture, planning with american oil's system lp model, dr. Walter Pazdalski, 269 Engineering 
3:30-film, civiization film series, 17th century 
counter-reformation, engineering auditorium. 
5:00 -meeting, smc off-campus and day students, moreau little theatre. 
6:00 -meeting, 88th anhual meeting of indiana academy of sciences smc. 
8:00 -lecture, transcendental meditation, 
moreau hall, little theatre. 8:00 -mixed media performers, stereoptician, washington ha II. 8:00 and 10:00 -movie, reefer engineering auditorium, $1.  electric madness,  
at nd-smc  


McGovern workers going to Michigan 
BPlieving that the election in Michigan will be carried either way by 5,000 votes, the Notre Dame-St. Mary's Students for McGovern-Shriver plan to con­centrate their efforts in the Michigan area. 
The goal of their project is to work in Michigan from this weekend through election day in order to carry the state for McGovern. Joan Hartley and Dave Ipshin · from the McGovern national staff have been in contact with the campus McGovern organization. 
According to Hartlye, "Michigan is extremely important to the McGovern campaign. We need Notre Dame students to help in this project. We will provide rverything for this last concerted drive: transportation, housing, food, and parties. All the Notre Dame students must provide is their time." 

Cox to speak 
in South Bend 
President Nixon's son-in-law, 
Edward Cox, will appear in South 
Bend today to campaign for 
Republican congressional can­
didate Donald Newman. 
A rally for Newman is scheduled 
to begin at 4:00 p.m. at Nixon 
headquarters at 103 N. Michigan 
(formerly Wyman's). Cox, the 
husband of Tricia Nixon, will be · 
the featured speaker at the rally. 
County Chairman of the Young 
Voters for the President, Andrew 
Nickle, inviteed all Notre Dame-St. 
St. Mary's students to attend the 
rally. 

Waste treatment 
A new waste-water treatment 

There will be three buse plans tor those students who want to stay for the trip to Michigan. The first from Friday night through election will leave Friday evening around day. The final bus trip will be on 
6:00 p.m., this group will work election day and will depart through the weekend and return on Tuesday morning. Sunday. The second bus provides 


SERVING THE N. D .. STUDENT BODY OVER YEARS 
Visit Our Attractive Salon featurin Mr. Baron award winning stylist in this area 
also Our Advanced. Lady Stylists 
Call for appointments--259-7679 
student rates 

1321 E. McKinley Hwy.--Mish. 
Mon., Tues. & 

2112 mi. east of T&C Shopping Center 
Wed. 


CLUBS ORGANIZATIONS 
if you want to sponsor a booth at Mardi Gras, '73 contact Craig Wernig -3258 before Friday 

method being evaluated at the University of Notre Dame will also be tested for its ability to kill viruses under a $22,480 grant from Telecommunication Industries, Inc. <TilL 
Dr. Morris Pollard, director of the Lobund Laboratory and principal investigator in the research project, explained that viruses are the major remaining public health problem. Bacteria, he said, can largely be killed with current chlorine greatments. 
He will test the ability of ozone, a major component of the new Sonozone process developed by Til, to kill cultures of known viruses. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Sut'lscfiptions may be purchased for $8 per semester·'·( 14 per year) from The Obserl{er, Box1 Q, . Notre Dame, Indi,:~ritt 46556. Second class postage· paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. . 

CAC Dance/Drama Series presents 


The Second City Players, 
Chicago's satirical humor troupe 
in 

"The Best of Second City" 
Nov. 4 8 pm Olaughlin Aud., St. Mary's 
All seats general admission--$3.00 
Tickets on sale at American National Bank, Witmer­McNease music, AI Smith's Records, Jennifer's Pandora's Books, Richman's the CAC office, S.U. Ticket office. 

3 

Cuba places four hijackers under arrest 
by Jeremiah O'Leary <c l t!172 Washington Star-News 
Washington, Nov. 1 --The Government of Cuba, in an almost unprecedented formal note to the United States regarding the requested extradition of the Arlington, Va.,. bank murder suspects, has informed Washington that the four accused hijackers are under arrest. 
The note also asked for detailed information about the crimes with which they are linked. 
A State Department spokesman said today the note arrived from Havana late Monday, via the Swiss Embassy in Cuba, and officials regarded it as a "favorable" sign that a formal reply was received so quickly. "They usually don't respond at all," one official said. 
The request by the Government of Premier Fidel Castro was for more information about cir­cumstances of the hijacking in Houston, Tex., of an Eastern Airlines jetliner, the murder of an airline employe when the plane was taken over, and the Arlington bank robbery in which two men died. 
Arrival of the Cuban note caused a flurry of activity amon g State Department officials and State authorities in Virginia and Texas. 
Arlington police have obtained warrants charging murder in the bank case for Charles Tuller, 48, his son, Bryce, 19, and William W. Graham, a friend of the TuBers. 
Houston police said that a younger Tuller son, Jonathan, 18, was a suspect in the hijacking, and Federal authorities said some of the passengers on the hijacked flight have identified him from pictures. But authorities stressed that the 18-year-old has not been charged formally. 
The Federal Bureau of In­vestigation has, however, charged Charles and Bryce Tuller and Graham with air piracy. 
The State Department said it intends to try to expedite a formal reply detailing . everything the Cubans wanted to know about the Tuller family group but is han­dicapped because of the absence of indictments in the Virginia murders and because of confusion 
about  whether  the  men  will  be  
charged in Texas under State  or  
Federal laws, or both.  


Legal authorities at the State Dt.>partment are in consultation with the Arlington County Com­monwealth attorney as well as Texas and Ft.>deral Law En­forcement authorities attempting to complete a response to the questions. 
It was ponted out that the ex­tradition proceedings between governments is exceedingly cumbersome, involving service of extradition papers by state governors on the Secretary of State, who then forwards the request to the other government. 
Even the normal complexities of extradition are complicated by the absence of diplomatic relations between Cuba and the U.S. for the past decade and Cuba's normal refusal to extradite any fugitive to the U.S. 
Of 70 hijackers who have gone to 
Cuba, only about 12 ever have 
been sent back and these were 
"voluntary" returnees in the 
category of being either common 
criminals or mentally disturbed. 
In any case, none was extradited 
in the formal sense. Their return 
always was done quietly by way of 
Canada. 
One State Department official said he considered it unusual and favorable that Cuba responded so quickly with a formal note to the informal U.S. request to Havana for extradition of the four Virginia men. 

The U.S. did not ask the Swiss to / seek extradition of the fugitives until late Sunday and the Cuban reply arrived in Washington Monday evening. 



Company •
lD ICC hearing gave funds to GOP 

by James R. Polk ((.') t!li2 Washington Star-News· 
Washington , November !-­President Nixon has received a $50,000 campaign donation from a trucking company owner with a merger pending before the in­terstate Commerce Commission. 

A forner Nixon fund-raiser is one of the three I.C.C. members handling the merger case. 
John Ruan, President of Ruan Transport Corp. In Des Moines, Iowan made the contribution through nine Nixon financial committees in mid-September. 
An I.C.C. hearing examiner rejected Ruan's bid to acquire the midwestern tanker trucking line of Eldon Miller, Inc., but the case is pending before a three-mmeber 
I.C.C. panel including Nixon ap­pointee W. Donald Brewer. 

Brewer was part of the hierarchy of the 1968 presidential campaign as a top fund-raising aide to Nixon finance chairman Maurice H. Stans and Los Angeles lawyer Herbert W. Kalmbach, 
• Nixon's personal attorney who has been linked recently to undercover contributions and a secret slush fund. 
McGovern 

not coming 
Presidential hopeful, George McGovern, will not visit the South Bend area as was rumored. 
Ilene Sandeen of the St. Joseph Democratic Headquarters dispelled any rumors. McGovern has no plans to visit this area before the election. 

TOMORROW Open 7:00 

Ruan and his wife, Elizabeth, the $50,000 total. who is listed as ~ecretary of the Ruan Transport Corp. is one of trucking firm, each gave $3,000 to the nation's larger trucking firms four national Nixon groups, in­with a fleet of roughly 1,000 semi­cluding the Finance Committee to trailers and authorized routes in 48 re-elect the President states. 
Each of them also made $3,000 Earlier this year, an I..C.C. donations to four state branches in hearing examiner, Harold J. California, Iowa, New York and Sarbacher, ruled that Ruan's firm Pennsylvania, and Ruan added was violating the interstate $2,000 to the Texas Committee for commerce act in its attempt to take over the Miller Line. 



Ruan now holds 45 per cent ot the stock in Miller and has an I.C.C. application pending to acquire the full 100 per cent. 
Sarbacher said Ruan, through his position as chairman and major owner of a Des Moines Bank, had affectedtheMiller Firms access to loans. Sarbacher ruled Ruan had established "unlawful control" of the rival line he wants to acquire. He rejected the ap­plication. 
The examiner's ruling is pending before a panel of Brewer, I.C.C. Chairman Kenneth Tuggle, also a Nixon appointee, and Willard Deason. a Democrat 


Great artists, great music­
budget-priced on Victrola Records 


Immortal Performances noweven more priceless at our low Victrola prices. 

RCII VICTROLA TCHAIKOVSKY PIANO CONCERTO NO. 1 EMIL GILELS FRITZ REINER CHICAGO SYMPHONY 

ROll RCII Records ROll 
Our price $1.86 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 


the observer Thursday, November 2, 1972
4 
88th meeting 
Science confab at SMC 
'. 

Saint Mary's College, the host of the eighty-eighth annual meeting announces the final program for this meeting at the College, November 2-4, 197" 
At 7 30 · Th d
: p.m. on urs ay,
November 2 the Executive Committee will meet in Carroll Hall, Madeleva Memorial. Those 
attending include all current of­ficers of the Indiana Academy of Science: 
Friday, November 3 will begin with Divisional Meetings, held in Saint Mary's College classrooms. Various papers on topics per­taining to each division will be presented by professors from coJleges and universities throughout the state of Indiana. There are thirteen divisions: 
., Anthropology, Botany, Cell Biology, Chemistry, Ecology,r Engineering, Entomology, Geography and Geology, Microbiologv and Molecular Biology, Physics, Plant Taxonomy, Soil Science, Zoology:. At 2:00 p.m. on Friday, the General Session will be held in the Saint Mary's College Little Theatre, Dr. Otto K. Behrens, presiding. Dr. Edward L. Henry, P~esident-Saint Mary's College, Will welcome the Indiana Academy of Science to the campus. 
Following Dr. Henry's remarks, Dr. Frank K. Edmondson, Goethe Link Observatory, Indiana University, will present "The P's and Q'sof Modern Astrology". Dr. Edmondson is the Indiana 
Academy Science Lecturer-of -the­atten4 this lecture. 
Friday evening will feature the Indiana Academy of Science Annual Banquet, held in the Saint Mary's College Dining Hall. At that time, Dr. Otto K. Behrens will deliver the Presidential Address: 
"Pharmaceutical  Research:  Its  
Contributions  to  Science  and  
Medicine".  

November 4, Saturday, Saint Mary's College will host the for­tieth . Annual Meeting of the Junior Academy of Science. The members are high school students from all over the state of Indiana, and represent the scientists of the future. Council meetings, tours and presentation of student prepared papers include some of their activities. The day's gathering will conclude with the presentation of the "Best-Boy"­"Best-Girl" Scientist Awards, Dr. Lawrence E. Poorman, of Indiana State University, State Director of Junior Academy of Science, presiding. 
Simultaneously on Saturday, the Hoosier Association of Science Teachers will meet to discuss aspects of environmental education and various classroom instruction concepts. Miles Laboratories, Inv ., Elkhart, In­diana, is co-hosting this meeting with Saint Mary's College, on the College campus. 
The Science Educators Division of the Indiana Academy of Science will meet to discuss science teaching trends and methods for elementary school teachers, and various aspects of high school 
Year. The public is invited to ifcience instruction. 
Noted Romanian scientist 
Carpov to visit ND 
Dr. Adrian Carpov, deputy Harvard University as well as the director of the Petru Poni Institute University of Notre Dame. of Macromolecular Chemistry at Polymer research at Notre Dame Iasi, Romania, will visit the is headed by Dr. Frank G. 
University of Notre Dame D 'Alelio. professor of chemistry, Wednesday <Nov. 1) as part of a who will host Carpov during his month-long tour of polymer stay. research in the United States. During his day-long vitdt, the Carpov, whose visit is sponsored Romanian scientist toured the by the State Department Council Radiation Laboratory and the 
on Leaders and Specialists, Lobund Laboratory for Germfree 
requested visits at thirteen Animal Research. He will also 
colleges and universities including hold informal seminars and meet 
Stanford University, the with University administrators. Universitv of Michigan and 
by Janie Cannon Staff Reporter 
The St. Mary's College Student Assembly voted last night to allocate $480.83 to the An Tostal Spring Festival, marking the first time in the school's history that St. Mary's has helped to fund this annual event. 
The Student Assembly feels that this allocation is justified, because a majority of the SMC studentts take part in the An Tostal Weekend activities. 
.· A proposal that the Assembly give $100 to the SMC Tennis Club was presented, but it was decided to wait until next week to vote on this issue. The Tennis Club, which will participate in meets with other schools, has asked the student government for only $100 of the $400 needed for the maintenance of the club. This money would be 
BEAUX ARTS BALL 
John Kuhn's--Duck Soup 
9:30pm -2:00am Saturday, Nov. 4 
ARCHITECTURE BUILDING Food & Mix, Free Farouts Creative Attire--Theme: Albergo
Grande 
Tickets S-4.00 in Arkie Library 
EVERYONE WELCOME 
used to financ~ the practice sessions at the· Mishawaka Racquet Club. 
The last item on the agenda was an agreement to publicize the formation of a Day Student Commissioner. After this position is filled, it will be approved bv the 

The residents of Badin Hall surprised Fr. Hesburgh. Halloween night with a pumpkin and his old door from room 333 of Badin where Hesburgh lived as an assistant rector more than 
20 years ago. uThere are a 
Chess tourney at Breen-Pb.illips 
All  Notre  Dame  and  SMC  
students  are  eligible  for  an  in­ 
dividual  and  team chess  tour­ 

nament November 10 and 11 in Breen -Phillips Hall. The tour­nament is sponsored jointly by En Passant number 1, an affiliate organization of the NO Chess Club, and the Breen-Phillips Chess Club. 
The tournament will be a five round Swiss tournament with a time limit of 40 moves in one hour and fifteen minutes. Teams will be com posed of the four highest scoring players from the same hall. 
Trophies will be awarded to the three top ; teams and the threeOUtStanding individual playerS.
Registration for the tournament 
~November10,5:00-5:~ p.m.atL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,~~~~~ 
Breen-Phillips. There is a $1.25 entry fee. Players may enter as individuals or part of a hall team. 
SMC allocates In~ney for An Tostal 
Student Assembly and the duties of the Commissioner will be decided. 
Sue Welte, vice-president of the Student Assembly, then closed the meeting by commending the work done t.o achieve the opening of the 
Student Center, labeling it "a great success." 
MAMOND! ENLA115H 
TO SHOW DOAILS 
SPECIAL PRICES 
TO NOTRE DAME STUDENTS 

---Also Concord Mall in Elkhart Downtown open Mon. & Thurs. 'til 9. Blackmond's open Fri 'til9. Others nite 'til9. · 
lot of memories 

ATTE.NTION HEADS 
Neec! Shaping U ? 
*Blunt Cuts *Precision Cuts *English Shags 
*Hair Recontlitioning 
"let Sue style your hair." 


We solve long hair problems I 

All Services By Appointment 

UJre WinJjammer 
HAIR STYLING FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN & BOYS 
163::7--;l--;-i::::-nc-:-.o~l~n--;W-::--ay--:W::.~-c--l~os_e_d_M_o;_n..,_d.._a...._ys...:.:..::_...::::.;_:::P.;_h::.;o~n~e~2-3-2--6-6~22 
· 
SOCIAL COMMISSION PRESENTS A TRADITIONAL FRENZIED BRAWL 
>= UNLIMITED SUPPLY 1-OF FUN 
~ 
LIVE MUSIC <( Hard Rock c.. as well as SO's 
Rock 'n' Roll 
>­

FRIDAY at the 
South Bend Armory0 8:30 -12:30 
TICKETS--$2.5-0 per
~ 
~ person 
Available at North, South, SMC Dining Halls, Tonight and in the<( S. U. Ticket OFFICE 
FREE BUS SERVICE AVAILABLE Schedule: Leave NO Circle: 8; 8:30; 9 Leave SMC: 8:05; 8:35; 9:05 Leave Armory: 11 :30; 12; 12:30 
..... ... . •·. ·-· 
5 


I 
I 
I 
j 
I I l I I 
j l 
~ 
I I 
•I 
~ 
~ 
4 
4 

I­
r· 


r 
t 
' 
, ~I ~ ~ 
t' 
r1 l• 

.,• 
F < 
'1 
i •
:c 
•,< 
j 
I. 
{ 
l 
·, { 
; 
! 

1 
{ 
1 
l 
{ l 
(, 
{ J 
/
I 
{ 
( ( ( 
.,· 
;
. 
European Trippint:~
THE OBSERVER 

Italy and
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER John Abowd Dan Thornton Editor-in-Chief Business Manager 
News: 283-1715 
the Election

Editorial: 283-8661 
Don Ruane Joe Butler
Business: 283-7471 
Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
ann mccarry
Thursday, November 2, 1972 
The election is more than a week away as I write this. We're five thousand miles and almost two months away from the U.S. political circus maxim us. Perhaps we have the perfect excuse not to vote. The bureaucratic trivia of casting a long-distance absentee ballot is against us. It is a long walk to Via Veneto for the American consul's signature. Air mail postage is costly for bulky envelopes and the inefficiency of the Italian mail service gives no guarantee the ballots will reach our respective county officials before the appointed
Shades of Big Brother 
deadlines. Many students have even yet to receive their ballots. We are not looking for excuses, however. The majority of the Roman student body wants to vote. 
It could be easily assumed that we are more uninformed than the Tuesday, Rep. William S. Moorehead The White House denies that the study average U.S. voter. For some, this is true. Those who really care, on is under consideration; a natural move!: the other hand, are probably more diversely informed than they would 
(D-Pa.) released a report of a purported 
Who would admit to a serious study of be in the States. Living in a different country has a great influence on 
White House study of the possibility of a 
something so fantastic to be taken the importance of current events in your life. Reports of the World 
super communications system to be 
Series and Notre Dame football scores take priority over news of
serious. But one wonders. Every page of
installed, by law, in every home, car, and domestic affairs in letters from home. Foreign editions of Time and
the study is stamped "Administratively
boat by 1975. The 300-page report, Rep, Newsweek are our only contact with the mind of America's politicoes. 
Confidential," and an administrative
Moorehead, said, was prepared for The Rome Daily American provides the perspective of Americans President Nixon's Domestic Council, and assistant brought the study to living abroad. The Italian media and people provide a third distinct Moorehead's subcommittee personally view of the United States political scene.
would embody a wide range of disaster ­and, more importantly, anonymously.
warning systems and public information 
Well-informed Italians
Suspicious circumstances for a sup­services. 
posedly rejected document.
The study is described in a copyrighted The average Italian is surprisingly well-informed on U.S. politicalAP news story as being "a preliminary activities. The basic attitude is one of disdain and criticism; the response to a request for the study" by What about Another One? Italians' only concern, the far-reaching effects of the almighty dollar 
on their own economy. Italian industry exports a major portion of its
Dr. Edward David, the White House 
And even if the document released by products to the United States. The present economic situation creates 
science advisor. According to the plan, a 
a large discrepancy between the value of Italian goods and the price
Moorehead is a rejected one, the im­special receiver would be required to be 
Americans pay for them. Two years ago the American dollar was
plication that an unrejected one still
installed in every radio and television worth approximately 650 lire. Today the exchange rate is 570-575 per
under consideration exists remains
and in all cars and boats, two channels dollar. operating by 1975, expanding to ten by evident. Although the study was never "I've noticed on walls in both Siena and Rome the words 'Boia presented to the Domestic Council, as Nixon'," Brian Barsetti commented in a political conversation. "That
1980. 
David claims the mere idea that the means 'Hangman Nixon'. The Italians don't like Nixon much."
The governmen would have sole power 
government wanted to study the
to turn the system off and on at will. This 
Don't Like Nixon

feasibility of wiring every house in thewould allow the government to broadcast United States should be enough for all
disaster warnings to all citizens involved Brian's experience was not an unusual one. Other walls are em­at the time; and public service programs, citizens to protest, and protest very blazoned with Nixon's name, the 'X' written as a swastika or replacedvehemently. Even if the project was with the emblem of the S.S., the Nazi police force. Other artists draw
like special children's educational shows, 
rejected, the fact that someone took the gallows withthe president's cognomen tied in the hangman's noose.
to the public. 
Yes, the Italians do not like Nixon very much. In general, the Italian 
idea seriously enough to do a 300-pageThere was one thing not included in the 
people regard Nixon as a warmonger and blame him for perpetuating 
study on it, and the government took it
study, but sure implied: that the system the Viet Nam war.
seriously enough to consider it before
could work both ways; that it could be a "Nixon works hard for peace now, because the election is near," very easy way to keep tabs on the people. rejection is sufficient cause for an in­said Giovanni Giuliani, an Italian architecture student, also the night Where's George Orwell!? vestigation into the matter. clerk at our hotel. "He's not sincere." The Nixon administration should "McGovern is fifty-fifty. Or, as we say in Italian, 'Ne carne, ne publically announce the particulars of pesche.' (some meat, some fish.)," continued Giovanni.
Land of the Free? 
Most Italians would rather see McGovern triumph in the November 
this document and its official stand on it 
election because of his anti-war policies.
immediately. This country is certainlyThe release of a report like this brings 
"The United States spends too much money on war," Giovanni
not ready for Big Brother, now or ever.
an immediate response: disbelief. This commented. "with the money they spend on defense they could buy is America, land of the free, remember? bread for the peoples in the United States and the world who need Things like that just don't happen here. bread." 
Or do they? Joseph Abell Giovanni continued to generalize, "We'd prefer to see Senator McGovern win, because he would end the war in Viet Nam and
IJillIII11111111I I fiiiiiiiiiiiiiiJIIIIIIIIDIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIJ 1111111111111111111111JlllllllllllllmiiiHmlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllNlf111111111 
diminish the amount of money spent on the army."but it sure wasn't a fair split. 
happen to them. The only thing the 
I speak, for example, of the A Fascist Newspaper
ticket sellers at the ACC say is that 
advance ticket sales for Yes. I was
Letter 
the Student Union takes the seats third in line at the ACC, having and they have nothing to do with it. The (liornale D'ltalia, a Fascist newspaper, expresses an oppositeEditor: waited over three hours. The guys It's fairly obvious and sensible to point of view. A recent issue called McGovern "a saboteur" for an­
I want to direct this letter to the ahead of me had slept over at the me that the person who gets there nouncing his peace plan while Kissinger was negotiating with the Student Social Commission, who door. only to be told that the loth first should get the best seats North Vietnamese. This newspaper continued to say that McGovern's has gotten us a fine line-up of and 11th rows of Section C (middle available. I am not knocking the announcement would delay the end of the war until after the election. 
concerts this year and then floor) were the best they could get. McGovern's "bad timing" exhi_bits stupidity which also provides
simultaneous sales--they could be
screwed up with the advance ticket They bought those, and the guy really good if carried out right. Nixon with certain victory in November, they concluded. sales. second in line was told that the There should be good seats at both United States politics are a never-ending source of laughter for the Earlier this year, the Com-floor was sold out except for seats locations, with the first person at Italians. Several people simply laughed when asked to comment on mission announced simultaneous off to the side <which are great if either location getting equally the present campaign and up-coming election. In comparison to their ticket sales, with concert tickets you like to look at amps). He bit­good seats. If the tickets can't be anciently-rooted country, the U.S. is a naive, emerging nation. Theybeing sold at both the ACC and ched enough that the lady called split evenly, then tell the students refer to Americans as "bambinoni" (big children), and laugh some LaFortune Student Center. Fine. and got rows 18 through 24 of that more . 
where to go and wait for the best
Great. What they failed to tell us is same section. After waiting 9 hours tickets. That way, ridiculous The Italians are not alienated from the American political world. that if you went to the Convo to buy for tickets, the best he could get De facto, most could teach each of us a thing or two, if only the im­
situations as happened could be
your tickets, you would be offered was 18th row. And I was left with avoided and students will get their portance of our participation and interest in our government. a bunch of second-rate tickets, best 2oth row seats. It seems time and money's worth. "American is a very progressive country," Giovanni said in the 
with most of the good seats taken ridiculous that someone should conclusion of our discussion," but it needs civilization." by the Student Center. The tickets wait in line for so long to try and Jim Gutowski And, so we trek to Via Veneto and punch our ballot cards. Typicalwere split between the two offices, get good seats and then have this American apathy cautions that our votes will have little influence. 
But, Rome wasn't built in a day. Maybe if we persevere, we will
llmiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUHIIIIIIIDIIIIIn.--IIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIII 
daanesbury 
11115 YWMS 11111'1 lie~ 11115 BeeN PICK:ertNG cvrrRDNT 'fH€ t./151 FeW Pll'/5. I'Ve ASI\&1/ HIM ID TeU-YDV WHY H~ F~ci.,S so Nc6A17Ve'-Y 
R8DVT .__ 6cORe£. 
i. 
} 


discover civilization is nearer than we think. 
IJarry trudeau 
the observer

r----------------. 
lieS A 
PSYCIIOMTIIIC JliUYFISH. 
I 

fiS Y()() CAN 5£~ We'Ve 5TI~GOT A UJT OF ~1\­
\ ro 110. 
Night Editor: george lund Ass't Night Editor: Art Esposito Design: Lynn DiGuilio, Tim Neuville, Anthony Abowd, Nic Catrambone Day Editor: Tom Drape Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr Pictures: Jerome Phillips Typists: Mark Neiderkorn, Barb Norcross, Dianne Chermside Night Controller: Phil Orscheln 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the 

opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 

Thursday, November 2, 1972 the observer 
7 
•


1ew oint 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh 
~ 
I
A Program For Racial Justice 
l I 



Recardinr:~s 
a lesson 
pat: small 
"Johnny Lee" by the immortal John Lee Hooker is a collection of his earliest material, recorded between 1948 and 1952. It is one of those anthology albums, which are usually typified by their interesting points rather than their musical superiority. This album is no exception. 
Taking into consideration the period when the album was recorded and the small budget in which it was made, one can expect a number of recording problems. For in­stance, the instrumentation, made up of John Lee playing both acoustic and electric guitar and Bernie Besman on piano and organ, was poorly miked. Since there was no modern epuipment, two microphones suspended over a toilet bowl served as an echo chamber. The percussion consisted of John Lee's foot and a board. There was no bass, no drums, and no sophisticated studio techniques. It is a pretty primitive album as far as production is concerned. 
The album liner notes that John's music 
. U 111111!iI!II!ill'!i11111!111IIIiIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIlliI 
Johnny Lee 
John Lee Hooker 
$4.98 list 

aut&muullllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllll!a 
was calypso "in the sense that he made it up he went along." However, that's as far as the calypso went because the album is just brimming ~·ith soulful blues and embryonic traces of his famous "Boogie." 
Most of the songs concern women one way or another. There are the love songs such as "If You Need My Lovin' Babe " "The Sweetest Girl I know," "Crazy 'Bout That ~oman," and "Baby, I prove My Love to 
) ou." Naturally, there are always the standard "my baby left me so I have the blues" type songs. The better ones are "You've Got Another Man," "I Cried the Whole Night," 

•

1n the blues 
~pularized over the past few years by <anned Heat. The "boogies on this album 
are "Jump Chillun", "My Own Boogie", 
and "Tell you a Story." 
John can get off on some serious music 
about certain individuals. One such song is 
"He Got Assassinated", a touching blues 
ballad about President Lincoln, done in 
John's own inimitable style. On the other 
hand. he can throwin a comical song such as 
"Troubles in My Home", the John Lee 
Hooker version about the age-old problem of the mother-in-law invading the household. Although I have raved about this album I must admit it contains some weak points, mostly due to its age. It is admittedly, poorly recorded, it is unrehearsed (all of the music was spontaneous) and there is a great similarity between many of the songs. If a person judges the album solely on those points. he won't enjoy the album at all. He would be better off to buy an album like "Hooker 'n Heat," which contains the present -day John Lee Hooker backed up by 
Canned Hl'at. 
(('nJl~Tight Nf'w York Times 1!172) 
EDUCATION 
-Eliminate all inferior schools. In America, there are too many whites, as well as colored children, in inexcusably poor schools. Recognize also that the schools is the mirror of the neighborhood, that if the neighborhood is deteriorated, so the school will be. At least, this is the present datum of history. 
-Accommodate in our already good schools -and they are the majority -as many of those children who are now being only barely educated, or not educated at all, as we can. If the only way to get students from bad schools is by busing, then bus thPm. Keep in mind the standards on busing ('sta blished by the Supreme Court -not to bus in a way that will harm the child's health or his education. Also keep in mind that somP minority parents would be willing to have their children take a reasonably long bus ride -as is done in most rural areas -if there is a vastly improved educational opportunity at the end of the ride. 
-Give top priority to Federal and state assistance to experiment with new ap­proaches to the educational problem and with integration of minority colored children into the improved mainstream of American education. Majority white students will cope better with the persistent American problem of color, I expect, if they have som~ acquaintance with black, brown, red and yellow American children, wherever possible, and on all levels of Pducation -even at play. Only in this way will American white youngsters begin to see children of other colors as persons, as human beings who are different, yet alike, in th('ir human loneliness, hope, fear and love. Children are not born with prejudice; they have to acquire it. An important pr('requisite for living in a pluralistic society is education in a milieu free of pr('judiced, stereotyped judgments about people who are different. Classroom in­struction in the democratic goals of tolerance and understanding affirms and strengthens what is learned in the living integrated context. 
-Do not confuse the educational problems of enormous black ghettos, like those in New York, Chicago, Washington D.C., and DPtroit, with the normal educational scene in America, where quiet progress was being made, North and South, before the r<'trogressive interference-of vote-seeking politicians who needlessly muddied the wat('rs. 
_-In very special problem areas, like those 
of urban ghettos, experiment with large­scale l'ducational parks that create their own physical environment -much like some great Midwestern state universities that accommodate and educate 50,000 to 60,000 stud~nts at once. In such parks, we could provide both educational and recreation for minority and majority children, as well as all the special classes needed, health and nutritional services,and room for all the private agencies and social services. Tmchers would work with both talented and slow children there, in an atmosphere free ol fear. AU the physical hazards of the ghetto school could be eliminated, and there would be economy of size. All parents should be involved. They, too, might begin to learn how the presence of Americans of color can enrich both the educational process and the quality of life, as other groups of immigrants who were "dif­f('rent" have enriched American life. 
-Vocational training and adult education must be an important element among our educational priorities. 
HePE:at, ~epeat, repeat: What happens to ('<iucation Is what happens to America. 
HOUSING -Ma~e buying a house, anywhere, for any Anwrican who can afford it, as simple as it 
is now to buy anything else. 
HPbuild the central city and eliminate the ght•tto by bulldozing all condemned and dilapidated housing, replacing it with low, moderate, and high-income housing throughout the metropolitan area, on the pattern of the new cities of Reston, Va., and Columbia, Md. Bring more jobs, parks, l'ultural and recreational centers and ()('dPstrian streets to the inner city. Re­t'stablish. by total community effort, a sense of security in the city, a sense of belonging, prid(' and caring. 
-PPlan new satellite towns like Columbia and Heston that are linked to central cities by rapid transit and integrate people of diff('rent racial and economic groups. Shift the highway program to rapid transit plans that are fairer for all, more efficient, and IPss polluting. Realize that it is idiotic for 75 per cent of our population to crowd itself into:~ per cent of our land mass, as it now does. After all, the whole population of the United States could be settled in three New York boroughs if we crowded them in as p<'ople are packed into central Harlem. But this is no way to live. 
EMPLOYMENT -Make equal access to employment a r('ality. not a friction. Promote new lt•gislation to insure that any business, in-
Port Three 

eluding government, any trade, any 
association, any profession that 
discriminates in any way in hiring and 
promoting qualified people will be cut off 
from any participation whatever in public 
funds, directly or indirectly. The same for 
communities that tolerate only what 
maintains their lily-white situation. Public 
funds are for all the public and their ex­
penditures and benefits must be color-blind. 
So much of the social criticism one hears tht'se days -even apart from campaign oratory.-sounds dismal, threatening and d('pressmg. I suppose that what I have written is als? guilty of the same grayness. So I would hke to conclude by suggesting that remaking our beloved America in its professed image can be adventurous in­
. . . ' 
spmng, ('XCiting, even fun. We must be 
willing to shuck the status quo when it is 
retrogressive, unjust and going nowhere. 
Wt' have to be open to change and alert to 
the great values that inspired this land's 
beginning and led it to greatness. We cannot 
do all that I have proposed without 
lPadership to inspire us, agreement of all 
our people and the will to do it together. We 
must put an end to the expedient political 
compromises that stifle progress to gain 
votes. Many will enjoy more justice and a 
fuller life if we do what we must. A few 
Am(•ricans will be somewhat reduced 
rna terially. but enlarged spiritually, if they 
can see the justice of it all. 
The consequences of not changing would be lar worse. We could become as we are noe becoming, a polarized, divided nation, separated into hating groups of white and colored, rich and poor, t€'ducated and unPducated_. employed and unemployed, s('cureand msecure, healthy and unhealthy, wPll housed and poorly housed, hopeful and hopeles~. Su~h a nation would be a breeding ground for disaster, for continual crisis for fpar and hatefulness, for constant s~cial strife. 
OnP can suggest change, or should be able to. without being a Communist, a Socialist or an anarchist. I am anticipating my mail. On<' rna inly suggests change from deep human and moral reasons so that we might get from where we are to where we should be. Basically.the changes I have suggested rise from a deep conviction. mentioned in our Constitution, that the good Lord and C'r('ator meant for every man, woman and chi~d to enjoy hi~ or her human dignity, and until all do, here and elsewhere in the world, we must be charged to move ahead more quickly with our unfinished human business, which as John Kennedy said, must also be God's. too. 
I I I 
~ 
j 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
t 
1 ~ 4 4 
J 
• 
., 

the observer Thursday, November 2, 1972
8 
•
a case for n1xon 
(Andy Nickle is a former staff member in the Nixon administration. He is currently a national coordinator ofthe Young Voters for 
The President and the director of the St. Joseph county chapter. ed.) 
The American electorate will wisely re­elect Richard Nixon as their President. The madate for Nixon tocontinuehis Presidency will be the result of his outstanding record of performance and the weakness of his op­ponent. 
nixon analyzed 
In analyzing the Nixon record, one should first reflect upon 1968, the year before he took office. Our city streets were burning and our campuses exploding. We had the highest rate of inflation of any major in­
... dustrial nation in the world. Crime was increasing at the frightening rate of 19 per cent a year. We were becoming in­creasingly bogged down in a Vietnam quagmire with 550,000 troops in South Vietnam and casualties running as high as 300 a week. Our federal government of­fered no real direction in combatting the growing pollution crisis. . International affairs were developed and evolved out of crisis-diplomacy. In general, our nation lacked direction, leadership, and hope. A feeling of frustration permeated our society. In less than four years, Richard Nixon has restored direction to national policies. His strong standing among the electorate is not the result of nicely delivered rhetoric, but rather of landmark achievements. Alook at the record will help explain. The 19 per cent increase in crime Nixon 
inherited has been curtailed. The latest statistics indicate that over one half of our rna ior cities are actually experiencing deereases in serious crimes. Washington, 
D.C. saw its crime rate decrease 30 per cent in the first six months of thisyear. In our six largest cities the number of serious crimes was reduced 6 per cent. The Nixon Ad­ministration initiated extensive anti-crime legislation and increased federal ex­penditures in this are by 200 per cent. 
To protect our environment, the Nixon Administration created the first federal watchdog to defend our quality of life -the Environmental Protection Agency. By next year, federal expenditures will ~ more than five times the amount spent m 1969. The President concluded joint agreements to protect our environment with Canada and Russia. It' is also intersting to note that more polluters have been prosecuted in three and a half years under this Ad­ministration than under 8 years of the dDemocratic predecessors . 
In helping minorities and women, Nixon has put more women, blacks, and young people in top government positions than any other President in history. He has ap­pointed three times as many women to top federal posts in less than four years, than Kennedy and Johnson did in 8 years. One third of the top -White House staff is 30 years old or younger, which makes this the youngest administration ever. Mo~e minority group members belong to this Administration than any other we have ever had. The Nixon Administration has doubled federal assistance to all black colleges. The 1973 budget request to enforce civil rights was 700 per cent greater than that spent in 1968. We should also note, that in 1968,68 per cent of the black students in the south went to all black schools -today than number has been reduced to 9 per cent. 

Economically, Nixon leadership has restored a sound foundation to previously unstable conditions. He reduced the highest rate of inflation in the world among in­dustrial nations, 6.1 per cent, to the lowest rate in the world, 2.9 per cent. For the first time in many years, workers' real earnings have risen sharply, as they increased 5 per cent last year. Our GNP increased 8.9 per cent in the last year. which amounts to the highest rate of growth in the world among industrial nations, including Japan. More people are now employed than ever before in our history, and 2.6 million new jobs have been created in the last year alo!le·. 
For those who holler about reorderutg our national priorities, please note that in 1968, 45 per cent of our budget went for defense and 32 per cent went to human resources. Today, 32 per cent of our budget goes to defense and 45 per cent for human resources. 
The President proposed bold domestic 
reforms throughout his Administration. 
Amon~ his many proposals were revenue 
sharing, welfare reform, government reform. the draft < to Iotter and then to an all volunteer army), and post office reorganization. 
In foreign policy, President Nixon inaugurated a new era of negotiations with our allies and foes alike when he took office. He is the first President to visit China, where he began to redefine relationships that had been virtually unchanged for 23 years. Nixon is the first President to visit Moscow. where he signed historic agreements to limit arms and reduce tensions. While long time foes have 
andy nickle 
negotiated with the President. our allie5 
have maintained tremendous respect for 
him. 
This respect is evidenced by remarks by leaders like Israel's Ambassador Rabin who recently called Nxion "the best friend Israel has ever had in the White House." The explosive crisis-diplomacy of the 60's has been replaced by a new realism in foreign policy -as per the Nixon Doctrine. 
In vietnam, a negotiated peace settlement 
now appears close to ending the war in Asia. 
troops reduced 
To this point, the President reduced American troops by over 95 per cent, <'asualties by 99 per cent, and spending by 66 per cent. At the same time, he persisted in supporting a nation of 17 milJion people who have been savagely invaded by an im­perialistic neighbor. The president refused to impose a Communist regime from North Vietnam on the people of South Vietnam, who it should be noted, have never been ruled by their northern enemy. The set­tlement which appears forthcoming, is predicated on a cease-fire and return of all American POW's -two points not demanded by Mr. Nixon's political opponent. 
Richard Nixon has a record of out­standing achievements. His opponent has an inconsistent <his only consistency lies in his inconsistency) and mediocre record as a Senator. Mr. McGovern has made promises, promises on promises, amend­m('nts to promises, promises not to make promises. and retractions of promises, which when combined with his spotty record should lead one to find him a weak alter­native to a Nixon Presidency. 

slaughterhouse-five: it goes very well 
ioseph abell 

Slaughterhouse-Five, the book, is something that is very unusual, yet something very fascinating. It is at once a war story, a science-fiction story, a satire, and a philosophical discus'sion. Very biting from the 106 repifions of "so it goes" after 106 types of deaths, Kurt Vonnegut Jr. manages to drive his point home, whether it be from Dresden, Germany in 1945; Illium, New York in 1968, or from the planet Tralfamadore in all time. 
Slaughterhouse-Five, the movie is an author's dream: a best novel taken as closely from the novel as possible. The in­cidents, the characters, the plot progression, even entire chunks of dialog, are lifted intact from the book. It is entirely Kurt Vonnegut's story, excluding only one thing from the book: the entire point of his theme. 
Slaughterhouse-Five, the book, is basically a "theme" book, and let's face it, you can't really make that kind of a book into a movie and expect it to work (witness the disasterous Catch-22). In the book, there are no real personalities, but mostly stereotypes and highly forgettable characters. But that's what the book needed. Vonnegut isn't telling a simple story of a man "time-tripping;" he's putting across a serious point in a book crammed with symbolic meaning. He doesn't need 
definite personalities to tell his point. 
But a movie needs actors, and actors must stand up and say their lines. And what does this create'? Personalities-to get in the way of the original theme, so much in the way that the theme disappears. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Slaughterhouse-Five 

Billy Pilgrim  Michael Sacks  
Paul Lazzaro  Ron Leibman  
Edgar Derby  Eugene Roche  
Valencia  Sharon Gans  
Montana Wildhack  Valerie Perrine  
Barbara  Holly Near  
Robert  Perry King  
Ronald Weary  Kevin  Conway  
A  George  Roy  Hill- Paul  Monash  Production;  

Executive Producer, Jennings Lang; produced by Paul Nlonash, Directed by George Roy Hill; Screen play by Stephen Geller; Based on Slaughterhouse· Five or The Children's Cursade by Kurt Vonnegut Jr.; Director of Photography,Miroslav Ondricek; Music by Glenn Gould. A Universal Vanadas Productions, Inc., Picture. Running Time, 104 minutes. MPAA rating: R. Showing daily at the State Theatre, South Bend. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
But is this a fault of the film itself'? Not really. The fault lies in the selection of novel to be filmed. Slaughterhouse-Five is really a . unfilmable book, if the director wants to retain the original meaning, and that's too bad. 
This director however, is quite good with what he does have to work with. George Roy Hill, who also did Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, shows excellent ability again in his choice of cast and location<especially the latter) and what he can do with them. 
Filmed in Minneapolis, Czechoslovakia, and Universal Studios, the story comes across most effectively in the Czech scenes, which provide the most realistic wartime settings I've seen in awhile. There's never a 
Valencia Pilgrim (Sharon 


moment that one doubts that Billy Pilgrim is in Germany. The highlight is the city of Most, Czechoslovakia, a deserted city that the special effects people very skillfully turn into a newly leveled Dresden, ef­fectively visualizing Vonnegut's moon­
scape simile. 

The most curious set is the Tralfamadoreian "cage." Looking like a glassed-in Stepan Center, it is surrounded by a very colorful Univers~. and houses a very typical Sears and Roebuck living room, something Vonnegut must have smiled about. · 
And the actors are up to the sets' par. AZ relative newcomer to Hollywood, Michael Sacks plays a very convincing Billy Pilgrim, a difficult role, involving Billy as four dif­ferent types of man: a bewildered wartime youth, a young husband, a 1 middle-aged family man, and an old man.He comes off best as the youth, possibly because that is his natural appearance. Credit must be given to the makeup men, also for a damned good job of producing four different Billy Pilgrims. 
The other characters are generally up to Sack's performance. Standouts are Ron 

Gans) shows her delight Liebman as a very distasteful Paul Lizzaro, and giggly puzzlement hell-bend on revenge, and Sharon Gans as a when her husband wakes highly tamed,overweight and domesticated her with a special sur­Valencia, the typical rich-man's wife. prise on her birthday in Valerie Perrine as a briefly-seen <but quiteSlaughterhouse-Five. fully seen) Montana Wildhack is adequate as the sex goddess on Tralfamadore, and 
Eugene Roche's Edgar Derby, though a bit on an unwieldy, but seemingly intentional melodramatic side, is fairly well ac­complished. 
Vonnegut was supposed to have read the script of Slaughterhouse Five and said he liked it "very much," but I wonder. Some of the book's irony manages to show through, as when Billy and Valencia pass each other in the hospital corridor, both unconscious; but other incidents, such as a Keystone Kop­type auto chase scene, and a short scene in an operating room that comes out of nowhere and has no apparent place in the film, take away from the already choppy continuity of the story. 
On the whole, I enjoyed this movie a great deal, but then again, I cheated: I read the book first. And I think this is the key. Slaughterhouse-Five is rather like 2001: A Space Odyssey: the movie cannot really stand on its own, but needs the book for a full understanding and appreciation. 2001 was a very visual movie, yet also a very confusing one. The book didn't hold all the answers, but sure helped to explain what was going on. And so it is with Slaughterhouse-Five: A reading of the book is necessary to know what is really going on and the movie is a stunning visual supplement. 
For those who have read the book, I recommend this movie. For those who haven't read the book, read it in conjunction with the movie. You'll find you've not wasted your time. 

-·. ·.'. 

9 

Letters••• 
•.• on gay lib, editorials, COUP 
could bender the success of this you should expect me to share Cosmopolitan. I think that if she project. However, among the yours. But disagreement gives you wants such as material on praises for the committee, COUP, no right to deny me the availability homesewing, she would definitelythese two writers failed to notice of birth control and venereal do better to read McCall's and 
the absence of "Student Govern­disease information. You can be Rt>dbook, both of which abound in 
ment" on the questionaire. 
secure in your moral views by subjects she deems essential to the 
I don not intend to attack the remembering that condoning a modern woman.organizers of COUP for forgetting 
Birth Control Center is not con­Therefore, I would ask that Miss 
that student government handles doning sexual activity (low and Darin please read these over $80,000 and that it has a flimsy morals, that is.) since they are
magazines, ob­budget approximating $14,000. It I'm obliged to end on a note not viously what she is looking for. 

seems to me that Student 
intended to be vicious or con-Government should not put itself . descending, but only very sincere-­Sincerely,above uther organizations and not I feel sorry for you Theresa, for I Michael Carl Goetz
he investigated. Many students think you are the one with the may not realize that members of closed mind. student government are able to make many unnecessary long Sincerely,distance phone calls on the Student Randy Sayers licentious Government's bill. Furthermore, how many times have members of student ·government had dinner at 
Editor:the Morris Inn at the expense of the ms. and mags Please record my vote againststudents. Student Government, 

the licentious movie ads you oc­itself may be guilty of unorthodox casionally allow to appear in theprivateering and should be in­

Editor: pages of The Observer. Thank you. 
vestigated. 

Upon reading for ms. miss in the Obst>rvt>r, one thing bothered me. Michael JonesTom Bugardt Since Miss Darin's work seems 827 N. Hill323 Grace to ask for articles concerning food, South Bend, Indiana 46617 clothing, and the like, I do not believe she is consulting the right reading material if she is reading
morals, etc. 
Editor: DOWNTOWN SOUTH BENQ
In response to Theresa Ferro's rebuttal of Bob Higgins article: 
On first reading Theresa's letter I was amazed at the excellence of her irony in presenting a sup­posedly opposite view of Bob's :>pinion. 
But suddenly I realized that the irony was too good. Amazingly enough, Theresa was completely serious. <Actually that made her letter even more humerous.) 
To Theresa I might say that she missed a major point of Bob's article, i.e., availability of birth control and venereal disease in­.,.,in1 MICHAEL SACKS formation is not advocation of pre­
RON LEIBMAN 
or extra-marital sex <low and 
VALERIE PERRINE
flimsy morals, I mean.) 
AUniversal Ptcture in TECHNICOLOR"'
Every man and woman has the right to choose his or her own moral views and live accordingly. This right naturally imples the Feature Times right to any and all infomration 1:45-3:45-5:45 necessary to them. 7:45-9:45 
Theresa, I would no more expect you to share my moral views than 
WHAT IS WATCHING TV FOOTBALL WITHOUT 
BEER? 
Come in and and check out these football beer specials! 
Special on quarts of: 
1 Meister Brau--Carling's Black Label I I Stroh 's--Old Milwaukee 
! 

Special on cases of: Pfeifer's--Goebel 's--Braum eis fer Special on 8-pack of Schlitz 
Special on 12-pack of: 
Carlings--Pabst--·Falstaff 
Special on Six-packs of: 
Milwaukee's Best--Goebel's--Buckhorn-­Edelweiss 
*Best

TOWN & COUNTRY LIQUOR 
Beer Prices Town and Country Shopping Center In Town 
*Keg Beer

See us for all your party needs and supplies 
have ended the war in 90 days after he took office. Are you that naive 
gay rapping of what "war" is all about? The South Vietnamese Army is im­measureably more capable and confident now that it was when 
Editor: 
Nixon took office. The mining of the harbors and the bombing of the We are a group of gay Notre North has hurt the North Viet­
DamP students, who are interested namese considerably. Perhapsin gathering together, to discuss more important is the fact that our mutual experiences and 
Nixon has persistently shown that 
problems. We are aware of the he will not acquiesce, while the 
great difficulty that oftentimes North Vietnamese, with Russian faces an individual, when he and Chinese support, overrun the 
begins to confront his own 
South. 
sexuality, and his overall identity. 
Your editorial implies that the 
Considering the prevalent social 
present peace negotiations are the 
taboos that presently exist at Notre 
first attempt of Nixon to settle the 
Dame, we feel that it would be war. Do you forget the occasions bendicial, if we joined together in the past when he had offered to 
and exchanged ideas and views, in withdraw U.S. troops and return 
private atmospherr. Within the prisoners if only U.S. and South 
eonfines of this group, we hope to Vicnamese prisoners would 
offer acceptance and en­likewise be released, North 
couragement, to all who are in­Vietnamese troops return home,
terested. It should be stressed that and an international body be 
W<' are a private group, and have allowed to conduct free elections~ no intention of becoming involved North Vietnam has always refused in any sort of public movement. such proposals in the past. Why do 
W<' recognize the dangers of they seem to welcome peace now? notoriety, and we choose to find 
Nixon's visits to China and Russia,strength within ourselves, rather coupled with our mining of harbors 
than to try to force our views and and bombing of the North, and in 
life-style upon society. 
light of the improved capability of the South Vietnamese Army have signature witheld on request now, after ten years of fighting, ,\n~· pl'rson within the N.D.-finally compelled the North S.l\J.C. t>ommunity interested in Vietnamese Army have now, after Jl&u·ticipating in group discussions ten years of fighting, finally m· ml'l'tings. may write to: compelled the North Vietnamese 
into a bargaining mood. Yes, (;t\Y AWARENESS <G.A.) 
nothing changed in the war from l'ar£' or Thf' Observer its beginning until 1969 -but 
Post ()fri(;f' Box Q 
everything has changed since 1'\otn Dam.-. Indiana .tfi55li Nixon took office. It is remarkable how you passed .\n~· infrn·mation received will be over the domestic achievements of kf'pt strictly confidential. the Nixon Administration. He proposed and pushed through the lottery system. He is iniciating the call for an all-volunteer army. He
pro-Nixon 
has put four, competent, ex­perienced lawyers on the Supreme Court. And, although much is said Editor: about lawyers on the SupremeYour editorial endorsing Sen. 
Court. And, although much is said 
George McGovern for President about inflation, the purchasingconsisted of an unfair comparison power of the average Americanbetween McGovern, portrayed as has increased since Nixon took 
an "antiwar" advocate, and 
office. 
Presdident Nixon, to which you Unlike the Editorial Board of the 
ascribed a "pro-war" attitude. If, Obst>rv.-r the American voters 
instead, you had focused your recognize that President Nixon is 
attention on the respective records not the babbling, nonsensical,of each man, I am sure Nixon naive, inconsistent candidate that 
would have easily won your en­Sen. George McGovern has shown 
dorsement. 
himself to be. Nixon doesn't try to 
Ten years ago George McGovern 
impress Americans with his 
supported the Gulf of Tonkin 
speeches and personality, but 
Resolution, which allowed the 'rather with his acitons. His record 
president to use all necessary force stands unchallenged by Georgeto deal with the Vietnam conflict. 
McGovern. 
Throughout the sixties he voted in Stephen Kane
favor of every military ap­
353 Farleypropriations bill, thus supporting all of the financing of the war up to that time. 

Enter Richard Nixon. He COUP guilty? inherited the war from the previous Democratic Ad­ministrations. He promised to end Editor: it. He also promised to respect our commitment to . guarantee self­In the editorial of November 1, dftermination for the people of Jerry Lutkus and John Abowd South.-Vietnam. In J;hree and one were quite receptive to the idea of ha1(,years he has-removed over investigating certain halls and 500,000 troops, or over 88 per cent organizations around campus of the troops that were in Vietnam which reap profits at the expense when he took office. of students. The problem of 
Your editorial declared as a suspicion intermixed with the matter of fact that Nixon could investigations is ~ serious one and 
GOT LONG HAIR? 
WANT TO KEEP IT? 
We realize getting a haircut can be a traumatic experience. Ask for one ince off and they take two. 
If you're tired of all that, may we suggest calling Miss Carol next time you need a trim. 
'»lut.B 
HAIR DESIGN STUDIO, INC. 2010 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 288-1211 
Tues-Sat. Call for Appointment 




Thursday, November 2, 1972
the observer
10 

Eastern's Leisure Class. 
Sometimes it's Coach. Sometimes it's First Class. 
Sometimes it's Free. 
Usually you payYouth Fare and you get a seat in Coach. After you buy a Leisure ClasS"ticket at the regularYouth Fare,anyofthreethingscanhappen. 
Since Leisure Class is a Conditional Reservation, it's possible you won't get on the flight you made a reservation for. But, if you do, you'll usually get a seat in Coach. 
) 

If the plane is full, you spend time waiting
j 
but no money flying. You get a seat in the lobby. Then we refund~ 
your money and send you off on our next flight with an available seat. Free. ~~ We invented Leisure Class to solve the age­old airline problem of"no shows" (people 
/~ 
who make reservations, but don't show up for the 
) 
flight). Since Leisure Class saves us the money we would lose on "no shows;' we don't mind letting Leisure Class passengers save their money when everybody does show up. 
Last year, 95% of the people who bought a 
Leisure Class ticket got on the plane they wanted. The rest (over 12,000 people) got a free ride. To qualify, just make a Leisure Class 
reservation as you would a reservation for First or Coach. Then, be at the boarding gate with your Leisure Class ticket 20 minutes before flight time. 
If you have to wait for a flight with an available seat, it might be anywhere from several minutes to several hours. Of course, the number of Leisure Class reservations is limited per flight and not available on all our flights to all destinations or on all fares. Nor when the plane itself is grounded due to equipment, substitutions or failures or weather conditions. 
So call Eastern Airlines at 232-7913. Or call your travel agent. They're the only ones who can tell you about Leisure Class. 
e EASTEFIN TheWingsofMan. 
"The Wings of Man" is a registered service man. of Eastern Air Lines, Inc. 
_
_.. 


Thursday, November 2, 1972 the observer 1 1 
Fr. Schlaver stresses importance of volunte~rs 
On a campus of many busy of­fices, one seldom notices the creation of a new one. Fr. David Schlaver, director of volunteer services, has such an office behind the door marked "Student Ac­tivities" m LaFortune Student Center. 
The essential need for central coordination and direction of volunteers has become clearer in the past few years as student participation grew well over t~e 1000 mark, in some twenty soctal servke projects in the South Bend community. Continuity from year to year in the projects themselves and their relationship with the local agencies had been a difficult task for the student project lPaders. The establishment of Schlaver's office to handle the innumPrable daily requests for volunteers, for advice on funding, transportation, training and fel'dback, seemed the next logical step fro Notre Dame's volunteer involvement. 
No stranger to Notre Dame, Schlaver is a "double domer" 
<B.A. '66, M. Th. '69) who after 
studying overseas spent a year as an assistant at Christ the King Parish. He returned to Notre Dame this fall to fill his current position and to become rector of Dillon Hall. 
Schlaver is pleased with the student response so far, including the cooperation of most of the project leaders and the generosity of individuals who have volun­f('ered for special projects both on and off campus. 'activities such as the Football Ticket Exchange and Charity Basketball Game are also handled tl'lrough his office. 
At present he sees a need to publicize what is happening at Notre Dame and St. Mary's in the area. of volunteer services. He would like it known that his office is available for students who are interested in getting involved in som£' project. and to aid the ongoing projects in their efforts. 
HOTLINE wants more publicity 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Pt"t(' McHugh Staff Ht"porter 
Hick Rigliola, Notre Dame -St. Marv's coordinator for HOTLINE . (the telephone counseling service) feels there is a dPfinit£' need for this service on campus. 
f<,igliola said that theHOTLINE Service (282-2323) is available 24 hours a day to assist students. He stressed that the staff is trained to counsel individuals not only in drug problems. but also in any other difficulties they might have. 
Citing the present decline in the number of on-campus calls, he said that there is need for more publicity to make the student body awar<' of the service. He stated, 
Sporleder elected 
Donald E. Sporleder, professor of architecture at the University of Notre name, has been elected first \ice president and president elect of th<' Indiana Society of Ar­chitects. 
lit' has served a!:> president of the Northern Indiana Chapter of AlA, and on many committees. He is a member of the St. Joseph Valley Architects Association, the Lake Michigan Planning Council and is the Departmental Regional Counselor for the Association of Collegiate Schools of Architecture. 

"The  best  publicity  is  word-of­ 
mouth publicity."  
IIOTLINE,  which  serves  the  

South Bend area, includes thirty Yolunteers rom the university who man the phones. Figliola em­phasized the extensive training which t'ach volunteer must have. This training includes twenty hours of study and twelve hours of observing HOTLINE listeners. Tht' student workers are organized by MANASA, the campus mental health association. 
Since its inception two years ago, the HOTLINE has had m~ny harrowing experiences. Among tht-se have been suicide threats and many cases of drug overdoses. 
Figlioia said that the 

"Now that the mam projects are underway for this year," Schlaver savs "we can start evaluating,ini"ti~ting, and plugging into other needs aroung South Bend." He gets frequent calls from downtown 
agencies for help in various projects, ranging from "babysitting to furniture moving". 
To solve these requests he has relied on a few individuals and groups but now would like to reach more people who might be in­t«:•rested. 
"The image of the Notre Dame­St. Mary's student is quite high aroung South Bend," according to St·hla ver. "And I would say it is primarily due to the energy and sl'lflessness of the Notre Dame volunteers." 
He emphasizes that the faculty wf'll. Students and faculty has alwa)'s played an important members who would like to discussHe emphasizes that the faculty role in the training and en­volunteer work or aspects of the
has always played an important couraging of volunteers. He hopes volunteers programs with Fr.
role in the training and en­to expand faculty interest and Schlaver are invited to cont:tct him couraging of volunteers." 
hopefully alumni interest as in LaFortune -7308. 
organizatiOn has special 
agreem<'nts with the major South 
NOTICES
Bl'nd hospitals, access to a drug rl'scue team. and "is on good 
Sports car club now being formed. 
tPrms with the police." However, 
Call PJ1il 272 9914, evenings. 
he stated that ali conversations are 
Anyone who has rides to offer for
strktlv confidential. 

any weekend please call The 
Figliola said that he became 
Ombudsman at 7638. 
involved with HOTLINE "to get 
HELP tile 11elpless unborn, with
awav from the so~alled closed 
tinw, money, or both. Right.to
atmosphere" in which he lived. He 
Life, Inc. 233·4295. 
believes his participation has made him more aware of the many 
Europe Over Christmas! F I y wi t/1 t11e best fly BOAC. $213
problems in the world. 
round trip! Brithis Overseas
HOTLINE was founded in 1970 
A1rways Corp. Call Clark 283·8810 hv Mrs. Joanne Hill who still heads 
for delnils. 
the service. First supported 
Westinqilouse Compact
through contributions, the 
Refriqerators. 4.4 cu. ft.
telephone counseling service is 
( apa.city, factory warranty, free del1very. Call now! Wynne's RL'friqeration Co. 234.0578 or 232· 
now classified as a youth service of 
South Bend and is funded by the 
7618. Ask for Tom.
eity. 


No commericals for two hours, ('very Ti1Urs. and Fri. on WRBR, just dynamite music. Thrs. at 12 
pm: CSN&Y: Fri. at 12 pm: Rooqie. Non sponsors, Jenifer's Boutique & Pandora's Books. 
OFF CAMPUS PARTY, by C.J., N1es., Hoovy, & Jim. Saturday Nov. 4. 814 Turnock. Go to Corby, one block past Frankies and go riqht for two blocks to Turnock.
''THE BEST 
Everyone invited, especially Beldin, Walsh and SMC. LIVE BAND and refreshments.
OF40ACRES Typinq: Essay Term paper · Tl1esis Desertation . Technical or Research Report we do them professionally, efficiently, and reasonably. Expert SecretarialPODRY'' 
St'rvice. 233·9466 or 233-3257. 
Small, informal weekend with a unique qroup of American Franciscans dedicated to C11ristian Unity. Nov. 10 12. Call 1371 or 8814. 
Duck Soup on the menu-Friday night-8:30 LaFortune l'allroom­75 cents per person also her come the Scum--in living color 
FOR RENT 
Want to live off.campus second semester? 9 room house · 4 bedrooms tub & shower, South Bend. 5 or 6 men $45 per month, 233·5282. 
FOR SALE 
2 radial snow tires 165-14, 80 percent tread. Call 7729, or 233· 9868.
Brash, funny, subtle poetry tJY 

Kncissel White Star skis with
black, white and Puerto Rican 

, 1 Nevada bindinrc;, 210 em. first $80 ·a. "S. 232·1"
young people 13 to 20 years of age. Selected from "40 Acres And AMule," 
Pic ., ~ •· :1table PL.50, brand 
new ~·-"' Call 1670.
Harlem's youth newspaper. 

PERSONAL
Mail to: 

Mark,
HORIZON SIX 

ovailable at midnight. Call 638­
2377 or write Rt. 1, LaMoille, for . directions. Anita 
P.O. Box 21, Manhattanville Station 
New York, N.Y. 10027 

Roach Woman, 
All my love from L.A.
Regular Price $3.75 

Ruthie 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES $2.00 

LOST
(Please include school mailing address) 
LOST: Card carrier with Driver's License, school ID, etc. enclosed. If found, please call Barb, 4409.­
WANTED 
Need ride to Muncie, Ind. Friday, Nov. 3. Call Marilyn 4217. 
Need apartment for second semester able to move in in 
December. Call Fred 1487. 
Desperately need ride to Chicago Friday Nov. 3 after 4. Will pay Call Scott. 1791. 
Need ride to Wash, D.C., N.Y. or PJ1ila, can leave Thurs Eve, call 1244. Will pay. 
Child care needed: Person (s) wanting to care for 2 children in childs home on Tues and Thurs 8:30am 4:30pm, please call 234­0332 or 283 6273. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh, weekend of Nov. 4. Will pay, Katie 5770. 
Needed: ride to New Jersey (or Eastl Nov. 3. Call 8027. 
wanted: ride to Detroit. Will share driving, expenses. Call Joe, 
1412. 
Need 3 qeneral admission tickets to Miami qame. 4635. 
1 desperately neej t. ride to Columbus, 01110, on Nov. 31! If you're qoing 11'Y Wdy, please call 111e at 4679. Ti1anks, Jan 
Will do t1·pin . Themes, manuscripts C I: Jane Sm1th 233 6909. 
Ride needed to Milwaukee this weekend. Call Mary, 4155. 
Riders needed to Philadelphi~. Leavinq November 18. PhoFJe 7803. 
Need ride to Illinois State-. University, this Friday. Call 7845~·. 
Need: 3qeneral admission Miami tix, call Gil 6125. 
Desperately need ride to Purdue· Friday . Nov 3. Norm 1502. 
Need ride for one to Milwaukee. Friday, Nov. 3, Paul 8276. 
Need Thanksgiving ride to Omah (Weds. or Tues.). Wi II share expenses and driving. Kevin 1329. 
Need 3 qeneral admission tickets tor Miami. Paul 8276. 
1 need ride to Indianapolis. Please call 3213. 
THE BOAR'S HEAD Opening in November A young organization with a new concept in dining, featuring a limited steak and lobster menu. 
We  are  now  completing  con·  
struction  of  our  building  which  
uses  old  English decor and  five  

fireplaces to add to a warm an elegant atmosphere. Accepting Applications for cooks. bartenders, waiters. waitresses cashiers, dishwaShers, dining room work. We'll be hiring about 60 full and part time people for our opening crew. An ex­cellent opportunity for a "fun" and interesting job for the school year and summer. Please apply 
i in person at the BOAR'S HEAD 1 31 North · next to Howard John· son's Restaurant. 9 am to 6 pm. Ask for Henry or Bill 

-
-

1 2 the observer Thursday, November 2, 1972 
•

Irish. hockey co:mes of age 1n '72 
\ by Jim Donaldson remarked. "We'd like to be a Smith's strategy calls for the
Sports Editor physical club," he continued, 
to "use units of five
Irish menwith a lot of forechecking. Of­together" throughout the season.

This is the season that Notre fensively, we should be a good "By working with the same set ofDame hockey comes of age. pattern club, not one that duml?s 
lines and defensemen," SmithAfter four years, 64 wins, 52 the puck into the zone and goes m explained, "the players on eachlosses, six ties, some growing after it. We can run set plays and unit will get to know each other'spains, recruiting battles and a lot do a lot of passing and shooting. 

moves. This should make for aof hardwork,Fighting Irish hockey This should be our most potent more balanced . attack and ahas made th~ climb from a club offensive team." . 

smooth flow of play."

sport to big-time status and is on There's no question about the the threshold of beginning what fact that the Irish boast a umber of The last line of defense on anycoach Charles "Lefty" Smith talented goal-getters. Seniors John hockey team is the goaltender and hopes will be his club's best season Noble and co~aptain Paul Regan, 
although the Irish lost a fine one in 

ever. juniors Ian Williams and Eddie Dick Tomasoni, a four-year
"I have the feeling that we'll put 
Bumbacco, and sophs D'Arcy regular. through graduation, the\ everything together this year," Keating, and Ray DeLorenzi can position isn't a weak spot. With i Smith says. "Now that we've got a all put the puck into the net with junior Mark Kronholm and senior 
\ good number of juniors and seniors regularity. Chris Cathcart returning,( on the squad we should have better the Noble has been Notre Dame's situation seems in good hands.
balance, more maturity and 
( leading scorer in each of his three 
'·· : greater ability to adjust to certain seasons on the club and holds Irish The pair use different I ' . situations. The fact that we're an records for career points (163) and goaltending styles -Kronholm is a 
I <, older. more experienced club will 
~· career assists (104). His 61 points "stand-up" goalie, while Cathcart 
I '\.1 Paul Regan, NO's Co-Captain at right wing. 
definitely be of benefit to us." and 42 assists last year were the prefers going to the ice to stop 
Notre Dame was a young team a top marks for an N.D. player in a DeLorenzi, at right wing, is the "We've set a maximum of 100 shots -but both are effective.
:i', 
year ago, its first in the Western single season. Until sidelined with top offensive threat on a line with goals given up," Smith says. Smith feels that their varying
Collegiate Hockey Association, a knee knjury Octover 19th, Noble center Pat Conroy and junior "That's approximately three goals styles could be advantageous to the I { and their inexperience showed up had been skating at center between college transfer Mike Dunphy on a game -a lofty standard -but it Irish, creating adjustments I \ in several ways: in a 10-16 league Williams and Bumbacco, forming the left side. Smith singled out the can be done. Our forwards must be problems for opposing teams. I ·: record <14-20 overall) that left what may be the best line in the Sault Ste. Marie soph as typifing more a part of the overall defen­
"Until I see them in competitionthem in eighth place in the stan­WCHA. Notre Dame's maturing process. sive picture and we must be they're even and I expect to split~i dings; in the fact that they lost 12 Williams was 11th in league "DeLorenzi has great natural concerned with playing team-

I ,,. one goal; and in -outstand. spee d a the games be.tween them until one
games by only scoring last year, right behind too}s mg d an defense."­proves he can
occasional morale problems. But Noble, and registered 25 goals and good shot -but, last year, he just consistently do an 

I \ There's no shortage of talent or outstanding job," Smith stated.
this year, with 12 players on the 19-adding 27 assists to his freshman couldn't put things together," experience among the Irish worked hard this
man roster who are juniors or totals of 15-15. Smith said. "This year, there's a "They've both 
defensive corps. Seniors Bill Green all."
seniors and five more Sophomores The fiery Regan, far and away difference of night and day, He's and Mark Steinborn form a steady
who played regularly last sason, the Notre Dame career leader in like a new player, taking passes The whole team has worked hard
defensive tandem with six years of 
I things are different. penalty minutes, is looked upon as well, getting good shots off and during pre-season drills, preparing 
varsity play behind them. Green,
"There's a great feeling of team a "bad boy" by more than WCHA throwing his weight around. He for this weekend's season opening
t in his second year as co~aptain,
unity thisyearand I think it will be officials. Opposing goalies who epitomizes how much this club has home-and-home series With
) 
holds every Notre Dame offensive a big factor in our success," Smith were victimized 30 times last improved in a year. Bowling Green and a 28-game
record for defensemen.
says. "I've been impressed with season by Regan's accurate One area in which the Irish are WCHA campaign. They're ready to 
l 
the squad's intensity and the way shooting, don't look kindly on the definitely looking for improvement Bill Nyrop and Steve Curry, go.they've been going at one another Scarborough, Ont., native. is defense. Last season, Notre skating together for the third ·in fall drills. There's a real com­Dame yielded an average of 4.64 season, form another "There's more of a hunger thi:­
Skating on Regan's right wing is straight 
vear," Smith says. And it appears petitive feeling." big D'Arcy Keating, who possesses goals per game and Smith feels defensive combo and Les larson that only a WCHA title w~ll satisfy! The Irish will get a chance to use one of the league's hardest and that a reduction in that figure is and Ric Shafer round out the irish 

I \ their aggressiveness to advantage most shots. imperative. blue line corps. this veteran Irish club.
most accurate
in the upcoming WCHA campaign more than
Although he sat out
thanks to a new rule that enables For the uninformed:
~ 
half the season because of
checking all over the ice. 
eligibility problems, Keating
"We've got a lot of guys that are netted seven goals and was good in the corners and who like to credited with nine assists. Larry 

Hockey---real/y·a simple game
throw their weight around. The Israelson (5-3-8), always a steady
additional contact should be ad­performer, will skate on by Frank Wittliffthe left puck is dropped in a face-off circle 
on deflected shots. The forwards
vantageous to us," Smith wing. to the right or left of the goal.

Ice hockey is so new at Notre are also responsible for defense. 
The officials can call penaltiesDame that a number of students They are expected to skate back against any player on the ice. Mostare unfamiliar with the game. For helping their defensemen protect p('nalties are minor. A minorthose who want the experience of their goal. a tactic known as "back penalty usually is elbowing,watching without being confused, checking."

Captain's Corner 
tripping. or high-sticking an op­here is some basic information: Hockey players aren't allowed to ponent. It is punishable by twoThe ice rink, normally two be at the opposition's goal while minutes in the penalty box. The 

:==========================: This yeor there 's a difference hundred feet by eighty-five feet, is the puck is not in that zone. Off­penalized player's team plays one
divided into three areas by two side is called whenever an of­man short for the two minutes. If aThere is something very dif­
blue lines and a red line at the fensive player precedes the puck goal is scored by the opposingferent about the Notre Dame center. The red line is ignored in into the attacking zone. If a player tE.'am during the two minutes,hockey team this year. But to the college hockey: it is used only by is off-side, the play ends and a thepenalized player is allowed tocasual observer, the difference teams playing non-collegiate rules. face-off is called in the neutral 
will not be obvious. With the ex­rejoin his team. A goalie guilty of
The blue lines divide the rink into zone. A player is off-side when 
ception of one or two unfamiliar attacking zone, defending zone, both skates are inside the at­a minor penalty may have another 
faces our hockey fans will player on this team serve his
and neutral zone. better known as tacking zone before the puck.recognize the same team as last center ice. Hockey rules do not permit a penalty time. \ year ... at least quantitatively the In the attacking zone and the team to shoot the puck the length of A major penalty is a five minute 
penalty. All five minutes must be

i 
same. defending zone a goal, six feet by the ice to releive the pressure on its 
This year's team has several served regardless of a goal being
four feet, is set about ten feet from goal. "Icing the puck" is called 
distinguishing characteristics -scored by the opposition. Every
the back boards. The goal is set whenever a team clears the puck
when compared to past teams. player, including the goalie, guilty 
half way from each side board on a from its defensive zone down the These characteristics are a matter thin red line, the goal line, which ice and going over the goal line. of a major penalty must serve it. 
of quality. In the case of the goalie, another
extends completely across the ice. Icing will not be called, however, 
For the first time, a Notre Dame player in goalie equipment will be
Each team can have no more when the defensive team is hort a 
hockey team will have a nucleus of allowed to replace another player
than six players on the ice at one man because of a penalty. When 
seniors. Also for the first time we on the ice. A major penalty is
time. The team consists of a icing occurs, the face-off comes 
will have no less than 17 players generally handed out when a
goalie, two defensemen and three back into the defensive zone. The 
with WCHA experience. These player deliberately tries to injure
forwards. The goalie's job is to 
another player. 

"firsts" indicate the passing of stop the other team from scoring. lniuries haunt It could be called 
Dame for fighting, high-sticking, kicking 
milestones in the Notre He is dressed in oversized leg pads, or any other infraction where thehockey program. The milestones has an oversized stick and stick is
passed are that we are no longer a hand glove, a t:rapper's mitt gnd a grid practices intent to injure present. In 
young team, nor are we a new college hockey, fighting and
protective mask, and is the only 
Notre Dame's football team has
league member, nor are we the kicking are disqualification
player allowed on the ice with this 
beaten five of six grid opponents penalties.
spoiler trying to upset the college BiII Green type of dress. 
hockey establishment. this fall, but the Irish have yet to Another penalty is a misconduct.The two defensemen are defeat the injury jinx that has been It is generally called on any
Those close to the varsity hockey program have heard these primarily responsible for 
inhabiting Carier Field. player who shows disrespect to an
rationalizations for previously inconsistent seasons. These excuses can protecting their goalie. They Three more injuries have hit official. It is a ten minute penalty no longer be justified because we are now part of the college hockey must block shots, body check and Coach Ara Parseghian's squad but does require the team to playestablishment. The resulting effect upon this year's team is the dif­keep the opposition away from during this week's practice shorthanded. It is a personalference I speak of. their goal. The defense men must sessions, and two of them may penalty, but the minor and majorPrior to the start of our first WCHA season -last year -we were also play on the offensive. They affect the lineup for Saturday's penalties are team penalties. 
. ,r ; slightly over-eonfident. We were certain we would coast through our are called upon, as part of the game against Navy.
'' Team penalties can give rise to
regular schedule and top it off by winning the National Championship in offense, to lead the play out of their Halfback Darryll Dewan, who the most exciting play in hockey ­

Boston. Reality soon caught up with us, however, and we found ourselves own defensive zone. They must get was sidelined with bruised ribs last the power play. The power playin eighth place in the WCHA. the puck from the opposition and Saturday, suffere9 a mild knee occurs when one team is short aAlthough our goals for this season have not changed, our attitude carry or pass the puck with their injury in Tuesday's practice and is man or two on the ice. Thetoward reaching them has. The youthful cockiness has been replaced by sticks out of their end. doubtful for clash the
own In the with shorthanded team tries to wastea more mature and determined confidence. As always, we know how we hockey terms, a defenseman needs Middies. Wide receiver Jim Roolf, time when the opposition has thestand on paper·as·compared to other teams. I don't believe there is to be a two-way hockey player. still nursing a broken finger, advantage. The shorthanded team another college team that can claim to have had 10 of its players drafted The three forwards are called received a spained ankle and is may ice the puck to kill theby the NHL. However, we have learned through experience that talent the right wing, the left wing, and also doubtful for the Navy game. 
penalty.

alone does not win games. Emotion and mental attitude play major roles the center. They are the primary Offensive captain John Dampeer l''ast hard
skating, body

in a consistent, winning season. goal scorers because they are the pulled back muscle in yester­hundred an
a checking, one mile
The differences in attitude and maturity will give our team an air of closest players to their opposition's day's workouts, but he is expected hour flying pucks, with the oc­respectability and class that our fans have yet to see. Hopefully'. it will be goal. Many of their goals come on to be close to per cent by
100 casional fist fight, are all parts of 
evident this weekend against Bowling Green and fully realized next direct shots within twenty feet of Saturday, and is expected to start is the fastest
the spectacle that

spring in Boston. the goal. They can also score goals against the Midshipmen. rising sport in America. 
........_____________________________________________
·;,:.]~~---~ 






