-
·4~cti lj. 
~ /tj7 7V 
On The Inside 
Academic Council approves 
tenure changes.... page 2 
New members on SMC Board 
of Regents.... page 2 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 43 Tuesday, November 7, 1972 


Professor Paul Rathburn voiced sentiments that the Faculty Senate resign if reltions between the Academic Council and Senate are come to an end. 
Dissolution of Faculty Senate deemed possible 
by David Rust Staff Reporter 
Professor Paul Rathburn spoke last night for a "widely held" sentiment in the ranks of the Faculty Senate that the Senate be dissolved or its members resign if the Academic Council follows its steering committee's recommendation to severe all formal ties between the Council and the Senate. 
Rathburn, professor of English, Faculty Senate and college council member and president of the American Association of University Professors' Notre Dame chapter, included the qualification in his own possible future decision whether or not to resign, of whether or not the Council votes to make all meetings of that body closed. 
Current Faculty Senate chairman and physics professor Jerry Jones, ex officio member of the Council, reports that no decision was reached on either of these issues at the Council's meeting concerning Faculty Manual revision yesterday. 
Presently, the only formal link between the Faculty Senate and Academic Council is the ex officio membership of the Senate's chairman on the Council. The Senate committee's Faculty Manual revision recommendations would provide that all 20 of the elected FacultyCouncil members (under the Senate committee's new Council membership plan) would automatically assume an ex officio status in the Senate. 
Council steering committee recommendations, however, 
according to Rathburn, would eliminate even the Senate 
chairman's seat on the Council and bar aH faculty senate 
members from Council membership. 
"If the Academic Council votes to isolate the Senate 
completely from the Council, so that there is no member of 
the Senate on the Council, and if it decides to keep its 
meetings closed, then it would seem very sensible to me that 
Senate members resign their position," said Rathburn. 
Rathburn reminded that the Faculty Senate only proposes recommendations, while the Academic Council "makes policy." If no channel is provided for Senate recom­mendations to get through to and be defended in the Council, said Rathburn. "That's horrible in itself." 
Combined with a proscription of open meetings, said Rath­burn, "Why bother having a faculty senate?" 
He added that "Information we're getting at the moment is that there are no plans to make these (Council) meetings open." 
Economics professor Tom Swartz, last year's Faculty Senate head, does not believe that the steering committee's revisions would "bar" Faculty senators from Council membership, but does agree that they would eliminate all "formal links" between the two bodies and said that "There would be overwhelming support to dissolve" ;:~mong the Senators should the steering committee's version on this point be adopted without amendment. 
"The Faculty Senate servesas a sounding board for issues that are passed on to the Academic Council," said Swartz. "If there is no mechanism" for this communication of issues, then the Senate would be reduced to "a nice place to debate the issues." 
"I don't think we're quite up to that," added Swartz. 



Saint Mary's lifts tenure moratorium 
Five faculty members granted tenure 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 

A moratorium imposed last spring suspending all tenure considerations at Saint Mary's was lifted this weekend at the Board of Regents meeting. 
Five faculty members were granted tenure upon the Board's decision, and deliberations have already begun for next year's candidates: Drs. Peter Smith and Don Miller of the Mathematics department, Dr. Eugene Cam­panale of the Education department, Dr. Harold Weiss of Religious Studies, and Librarian Sr. Mercita Lynch. 
College President Edward Henry, who at­tended the Board meeting, noted that thedecision was made by a "unamimous vote" of the full Board. on a recommendation from an executive Board meeting some weeks ago. 
The moratonumwas imposed by the old Board of Trustees at the height of the merger break with Notre Dame. The Board qualified its move at that time by citing the uncertain financial and reorganization future of the college. 
tenure after seven years 

Ordinarily a faculty member becomes eligible for tenure at the end of his seventh year. Credit for time spent at one institution is part of the ''package" an individual negotiates when transfering to another. In accordance with American Association of University Professors <AAUP) rules, the tenured faculty member holds his position until retirement age (65). This is not applicable in instances of professional misconduct, staff cutback due to economic dif­ficulties, or dissolution of department. Mter age 65, the professor may elect additional years of teaching, but then generally receives only one­year contracts which must be re-negotiated each year. · When the moratorium was first imposed last spring, the national AAUP released a statement saying in effect that faculty members couldn't be left in such a state of indecision, and that it was "not an advisable kind of polict." At least two faculty members resigned as a result of the policy. 


Dr. Paul Messbarger: "happy they lifted the moratorium." 
lmoralel a consideration 
Sr. Franzita Kane, executive committee member of the Saint Mary's chapter AAUP, felt that the move to lift the moritorium was an important one for all faculty members, not just those involved in tenure negotiations. 
"Speaking from the viewpoint of both the local and nat10nal AAUP, snf as an individual faculty member, I don't feel that the moratorium was ever necessary," she declared. 
Sr. Kane added that faculty "morale" was a primary consideration of the local AAUP this year and she feels that the lifting of the moritorium will be "a significant boost to that morale." 
President Henry declined to comment ·on the necessity of the moritorium when it went into effect because he was not on campus at the time. However, Dr. Paul Messbarger. former chairman of the faculty assembly, noted that Henry was not persuaded that it should be lifted when he first arrived at Saint Mary's. Henry met 
several times during the summer with present faculty Assembly Chairman Don Miller, and came to support the faculty viewpoint, later using his influence with the Board to have it lifted. Messbarger felt this initial step was a crucial one for executive-faculty relations. 

apprehension to lessen 
Messbarger himself is "happy they lifted the moratorium," and was "never persuaded that it was necessary." 
Miller concurred with Messbarger and added that "to my knowledge, none of the faculty up­ported thPmoratoriumor even saw the necessity for it." He agreed that it would probably in­crease the morale of faculty members. 
Dr. Bruno Schlesinger, faculty representative to the Board, thinks that "apprehension" ap­parent last spring when the moratorium an­nouncement was made will be lessened with its negation. 
"I really can't say if the overall spirit of the acuity will be affected in any way," commented Schlesinger. 
Linnea Vacca, who under the AAUP con­stitution will succeed the chairmanship of the local chapter wiht the illness of Dr. Don Horning, called the move "not unexpected" and "very gratifying," summing up the consensus of faculty opinion. 
"One wonders what the point of it was in the first place," she said. 
the observer Tuesday, November 7, 1972 
Two new St. Mary's regents assume duties 
the items presented, which in­
by Mary Janca at the College." However, he 
cluded a proposed nursing
Starr Reporter stressed that, "it is premature to 
program, a discussion on tenure, 
make statements" concerning hisTwo newly appointed Saint 

and the payment of SMC sub­
personal views on the areas ofMary's Board of Regents mem­

scriptions to the Observer were 
change, and that "the presidentbers, Eli J. Shaheen and Walter J. 

"well thought-out by the com­
and faculty are aware of theSimons, attended the first Board mittees." 

necessary reforms."

meeting of the year last weekend. Labelling the meeting as "very Regarding the Planning Process Simons, a Birmingham,informative, especially as a new and the future of the college, Michigan, resident and the Vicemember," Simons stated that Simons expressed optimism by President and Treasurer of the"constructive ideas were brought saying, "I think St. Mary's has a Chrysler Corporation in Detroit,out, although no crucial questions great future ... but it's important and Shaheen, President of thewere answered." He believes that to plan and give a long-range look Sutton Tool Company in Sturgiss, 
Academic Council approves changes in tenure policies of Faculty Manual 
The Academic Council Monday without formal deliberation. 
approved its steering committee's The Council turned down a Law 
revision of the tenure section of the School request for an exemption 
Faculty Manual. from University tenure provisions. 
The revised tenure section ex­Law School representatives 
tends the maximum probation argued that the school's practice of 
period for professors and associate hiring persons with legal but not 
professorsfrom three to four years teaching experience at senior 
and for those at other ranks from professorial levels, combined with 
six to seven years. tenure quotas, called for a more 
Other changes included a 12 flexible system. 
month notice of termination of _The Council also rejected by a 23­
appointment, rather than the 19 vote a motion to open its Faculty 
present six, except in the case of Manual revision discussions to 
instructors, and a tightening of faculty and students. 
language designed to preclude As a committee of the whole the granting of tenure by inad­Council began an article-by-article ·vertence. review of the entire draft of its The tenure section of the Manual steering committee. It gave initial was taken up out of sequence by approval to the revision of article 


the Council so that the University One on the executive ad-Dean Thomas Shaffer's Law could make use of the new one­ministration of the University. School tenure plan went down to year terminal contract option in The draft recognizes the defeat by voice vote in the making current appointment replacement _of the office of the ..--A_c_a_d_e_m_ic_c_ou_n_c_il_y.:._e_s_te_r_d_ay-'-.----, decisions. vice president for academic affairs 
The language change, which by tbe office of provost and adds 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the L1niversity of Notre

requires that tenure be granted consultation with the faculty to the 
only in writing, was defended in process by which the Board of 
Dame and St. Mary's College. Sub­

discussion as necessary to prevent Trustees selects the president of 
scriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester ( 14 per year) from The Ob­server, L<ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 

cases where faculty have gone the University. In discussion, it 
over the maximum probationary also agreed to consider adding a 
46556. Second class postage paid, Notre

period unnoticed and, under the preamble on shared governance to 
Dame, Ind. 46556. 

former language, received tenure the revised Faculty Manual. '----------------' Michigan, were both asked to sit on the Board of Regents and accepted in October. 
Previously, the two served on the Associate Board of Trustees, which acted in an advisory capacity to the Board of Trustees. 
"When the Board of Trustees was phased-out this summer," ex­plained Mrs. Robin Hague, Director of Public Information, "so was the Associate Board of Trustees. This was when they incorporated the new Board of Regents." 
This newly created body, Hague continued, is currently in the process of building its mem­bership to forty. Thus, Simons and Shaheen were drafted into the Board of Regents from the Associate Board of Trustees. 
Simons became active in St. Mary's governance while his daughter attended the college, and served with his wife on the Parents' Council for eight years. 
Meanwhile, Shaheen has two daughters enrolled at SMC. 
Looking ahead to his new post in reference to the College's reforms, Simons concluded, "St. Mary's is not without problems, but I'm sure that they'll be worked out." 
Philosophers to study sexuality 
The Philosopher's Circle of Saint Mary's College will open discussion on "A Philosophical Approach to Sexual Problems" at 7:30p.m., Wednesday, November 
8,  1972,  in  Stapleton  Lounge,  
LeMans  Hall,  Saint  Mary's  
College.  

Mr. Leonard Fleck, Acting Chairman. Dr. Alan Nassar, and Mr. Edward Gozdowski, all of Saint Mary's College Philosophy Department, will guide the discussion. 
The purpose of The Philosophers Circle, according to Mr. Fleck, is to make people sensitive to the fact that philosophical issues do touch their lives, and that the answers to these issues make a difference in the life-style which an individual leads. 

FLANNER TOWER PRESENTS 

PEP RALLY 
Thursday, November 9 th Live Entertainment at 6pm Rally begins at 7:15 
featuring FOOTBALL COACHES & PLAYERS -CHEERLEADERS 



Tennis Everyone! 
Special Student Rates 

COLLEGE, LAW SCHOOL, GRAD STUDENTS 
$20 PER YEAR then only $5 per court per hour 
2-5 p.m. 9-11 p.m. A Complete Line of Tennis Equipment Tennis -without rain, wind, snow and no A.C.C. delays TIRED OF SITTING THROUGH S.B. WINTERS SIGN UP. 
PARTY FACILITIES AVAILABLE 
Come on out and participate in the sport of a lifetime 


The Racquet Club Call 259-1172 
Rick Whately NO '72 Manager and Resident Professional 


0 0 
.-If" •" •' ....~ .,• ... ~ .. 0. .. a .. a o .. a • • .• , " ~ .t ; " .1' " " I I • ' ~ I ' # ' • ' 

'," • " .. " • II' a • " " • t " • • • C C a C .. • • a *' • 6 <> • a • • a" • ... • • • 
• 
-~---~-----­
Tuesday, November 7, 1972 the observer 

3 
Optimism reigns at campaign headquarters' 

Nixon 

by Ann Tht"rese Darin 
Campus Editor 
Together with buildings adjacent to and across the street from it, 1700 Pennsylvania i\VPnue constitutes a bloc of power unrivaled in the country ... except, perhaps by that other famous triangle in Washington. the White House-Capital­Supreml' Court complex. 1700 Pennsylvania Avenue fortressesstrategistsand campaign workers trying to negotiate a lease for four mor<' Vl'ars with the American electorate on some· property one block down from the offiee in the 1600 area. 
S<>venteen hundred is super-modern, supPr-monied. super-luxurious and super­securitiPd. Just to get in the door to look around constitutes a major security check PV<'n though I was wearing a Nixon button. There won't be any Watergates there or n<>xt door or across the street unless the D<>mocratic commandos can pass through a cordon of football player type campaign workers. 
The mood is friendly in this ground-level campaign headquarters. Unlike the McGovern headquarters, decorated in new­miml'ograph. Nixon's headquarters, the only office visible to the general public, is paintPd in gay red and white stripes with ovl'r-sized portraits of the President and banners streaking the walls proclaiming "Nixon Now!" . "Four More Years!" or "RP-Pll'ct the President!" 
"We ARE going to win," said Steve 
McTigue, across the counter of the Nixon 
souvl'nir center. "I just wonder whether or 
not WP will carry all 50 states or not...that 
would <'VPn beat Johnson's landslide in '64," 
said the George Washington University law 
studl'nt. "We will win because Mr. Nixon 
has accomplished everything that he 
promised he would do. He even has almost 
sPttl<'d the Vietnamese conflict, but he 
didn't rush in the way McGovern probably 
would. He is going to get an honorable 
p<'ace. And remember the crime in the cities and the bad unemployment. There haven't been any riots like Newark or any more Wl'lfare.. .I really think he is going to giv<' us a generation of peace." 
Almost everything m the store Steven tPnds is free ... posters, buttons, records, banners, hats ...except information on spl'cifics. 
1740 Pmnsylvania Avenue houses that information central. In fact. only two leases. American Automobile Association and the Re-elect forces occupy space in the unfinished building. On the third floor there are no cracks in the plaster there. There isn't even any plaster visible ... just walnut panding, mahogany desks, soft lights, heavy draperies and sink-down-to-your­loafers carpeting. 
Observer lnsir:~ht 
A receptionist at the main desk, a massive obstacle to all who enter, quietly takes your nameand asks what your errand is. "Can vou interview a member of the staff for an ;lf!icle for the University of Notre Dame Obst•rn•r? Can you have a tour of hPadquarters? I don't think so. A nPwspa per. A college newspaper. From whPre? I don't think so." The "Nixon Now" button I found on the floor doesn't help. She dialed a number where or to whom wasn't Pvident. Everything was partitioned in wood and smoked glass like a bank. Elegant black filing cabinets lined the walls. No eampaign posters. No buttons. No nothing ... except walnut desks and black tdephones. 
Across Pmnsylvania Avenue with a eommanding view of the Executive Office Building and the White House, the third eom ponent of the Re-elect office complex is abo strangely silent. Muffled telephones, more secretaries, more partitions. 
But. at all three offices, as McTigue said, there is a generation of peace and con­fidence. 



Seniors release schedule for ND Air Force football weekend trip 
The following is the official schedule for the Smior Class Trip to Denver, Colorado this weekend for the Notre Dame-Air Force football game: 
Friday: 
3 p.m.: Students boarding buses for O'Hare Airport in Chicago should be at the Notre Dame Circle and the LeMans parking lot at Saint Mary's for loading of baggage. 
3:30 p.m.: buses leave South Bend for O'Hare. 
6:20 p.m.: Flight 39Y leaves O'Hare for Denver, arriving at 7:42. Students who bought the whole package will be bused immediately to the New Albany Hotel for the 8 p.m. party. Tickets will be available at the door for other students. Upon landing in Denver, students will get their hotel registration cards, party tickets, and bus ticket for the ride to Colorado Springs. 
Saturday: 
9:30a.m.: buses leave hotel for Air Force Academy and will return 30 minutes after the game is completed. Parties start im­mediately at the hotel. 
Sunday: 
11:45 a.m.: Return Flight 918Y leaves Denver. 2:53p.m.: Landing at O'Hare in Chicago. Buses should return to the Circle at Notre Dame by 8 p.m. 


McGovern 
By Ann Therese Darin Campus Editor 
Although some pollsters believe a McGovern presidential victory today is "somewhere over the rainbow," few people outside Washington, D.C. know that in reality McGovern's staff is headquartered over the rainbow ... the rainbow painted on the National Headquarters for McGovern­Shriver building. 
While the tone of the campaign is reflected in the colorful, one-story rainbow spanning the third and fourth stories of the building, the color wheel is only a slight. barometer of the optimism contained within the building. 
"We are going to win," said Mary Ann Malfik, a senior at American University in 
Northwest Washington. "Have you seen the latest poll in Michigan? We are only behind by four percent and I think we are going to take Illinois even though they couldn't have the torchlight parade." 
Like many of the young aides stuffing envelopes, answering phones and typing stencils. Mary Ann is a young woman eollege student. She works five hours every day at the K Street headquarters, besides taking fifteen psychology hours at AmPrican and waitressing in the university eafeteria. 
"I think that one of the very things that we thought was going to be our loss has turned out to be a big advantage. We don't have much money. People know that. But they respect us for rhflt we are trying to do because we art.~~~~~;nig to pull the wool over on anyone. Senator McGovern is honest and the people, all over America, will vote for him because of that." 
Behind her, several older aides were sorting campaign contributions which had just arrived in the afternoon mail. Despite the much-publicized analysis that MeGovern strength is coming from coastal states such as New York, New Jersey, and California, most of the multi-colored or pictured checks stacked on the table had Mid western and Mid-Atlantic addresses on 
them. On the first floor, besides the check-


Rathburn and Swartz comment on demise of Faculty Senate 
(continued from page 1) 
Swartz believes that the steering com­
mittee's elimination of a connection bet­
ween the Senate and the Council came from 
the committee's desire, shared by the rest of 
the Council, to prune Council membership. 
The Committee chose to do this in part by 
cutting away its ex officio members, in­
cluding the Senate chairman. 
There is irony in this push for Senate 
dissolution (if the Council adopts the 
steering committee's divorce of Senate and 
Council), said Swartz, "The Senate can't 
dissolve itself. It only exists in the Faculty 
Manual, and only the Academic Council has the power to change that." Therefore, "Only the Academic Council can dissolve the Senate." 

Current Senate chairman Jones declined 
,to comment specifically on the issue of formal Council-Senate relations, pleading 
l

the fact that the Council is now in the process of making its decision but has not 1,yet reached an agreement. 
He did say that he knew there had been "some vague talk" about members resigning or Senate dissolution, but that he "didn't know if people were serious about it." 
warld briefs 
lcl 1972 New York Times 
openers and greeters just inside the door ("What would you like to do today? We can give you a choice of three have to be done right now projects! l young women run piles of mimeopraphed materials to the mail stuffing room and upstairs to the executive offices. Primarily college-age women blue­jeaned and sandaled in Washington's 70 degree heat last week, the staff is divided into typists, canvassers, letter stuffers and campaign center salesmen. Even seven year-olds are veteran letter stuffers and lickers while Mommys type memos about recapturing Ypsilanti, Michigan or winning Greenbelt. Maryland. 
Anyone can walk through the front door of McGovern's headquarters in Washington down the corridor. into the typing room to offer to type press releases, roughly­drafted speeches telephone party faithful asking for money and time. With a McGovern button as my only credential, I was given a memorandum for precinct workers on getting out the vote to type while I was interviewing a worker. 
Away from telephone central toward the front door is the McGovern campaign shop. Unlike Nixon's swanky memorabilia center on Pennsylvania Ave., the McGovern nook is no bigger than a storage closet and is manned by a Swedish woman, Anne. 
George Stanley MeG stares down at browsersfrom wall-size posters in blue, pink, multi-color, black and white for $2.98 each. The buttons which livened the denim uniforms of the staff are priced at 25 cents. "No. we can't afford to give anything away ... you can probably get some speeches if you tell them that it is for an article, but Pverything in here we must sell. We are running so low on money," she said. 
Plaster cracks, the creaking wooden tables reminiscent of last spring's student body president campaign, taped together telephones and duplicating paper used on both sides echo her words. 
McGovern and. Shriver's K Street Center, 
sandwiched between two narrow, dreary 
buildings, has all of the characteristics of 
Middle West-South Bend-South Dakota 
Pxcept for a one-story rainbow, cameo 
appearances by celebrities Gary Hart and 
Frank Mankiewicz, and the most en­
thusiastic band of Populist confidantes this 
side of "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington." 
Washington--A high administration official said without qualification that efforts to resume negotiations with North Vietnam on ending the Indochina conflict were "on track" and that some movement will become apparent in a few days. The official left the impression that LeDuc Tho, the Hanoi Politburo member, has signalled privately that he would soon leave Hanoi for another round of talks with Henry A. Kissinger, President Nixon's chief foreign policy advisory. 
Tokyo--Japanese police captured a Janaese hijacker who lives in America and was posing as aChinese when he demanded $2 million and a flight to Cuga. The masked hijacker was identified as Tatsuji Nakaoka, 47, an unemployed day laborer from Los Angeles, who seized a Japanese airlines Boeing 7Z7 at gunpoint and forced it to return to Tokyo. 
Washington-The Supreme Court agreed to decide if New York can constitutionally reimburse church-related schools for costs of pupil­testing and record-keeping that are required by state law. A $28 million-per-year program of reimbursement begun in 1970 was struck down in April by a 2-to-1 vote of a three-judge district court and the justices decided to review that decision. 
Washington-Hints for do-it-yourself election analysts who plan to follow the flow of the election returns include keeping an eye on Connecticut, where the vote over the years has tended to run about five per cent more Democratic than the nation as a whole, so a Nixon victory there would be significant. Then there are Ohio and Kentucky, Republican states in '68 that could go to the Democrats. 
an campus taday 
4:30p.m.--.seminar,genetic variation and the study of vertebrate population evolution, dr. charles o. mckinney, galvin life science auditorium 
8:00p.m.--lecture, transcendental meditation, maharishi mahesh yogi, room 105,o'shaughnessy 8 and lO:OOp.m.--movle, the taming of the shrew, 
engineering auditorium, admission $1.00 
6:00a.m. to 6:00p.m.--,election, entrance of the university arts center and the north lounge of augusta hall, vote 


at nll-smc 

1 
1 
1 
l 1 




THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 

John Abowd  Dan Thornton  
Editor-in-Chief  NEWS: 283-1715  Business Manager  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  
Don Ruane  BUSINESS: 283-7471  Joe Butler  
Executive Editor  Advertising Manager  

Tuesday, November 7, 1972 

Election Day 1972 



First, a reminder: Notre Dame students registered in St. Joseph County vote in the University Art Center (The Old Fieldhouse); Saint Mary's students vote in the north lounge of Augusta hall. All polling places are open until6: 00 p.m. 
Second best 

Economists have an obscure theory that is directly applicable to elections. It's called the theory of second best. In political language the theory says that nobody can deliver exactly what he promises because there is no way to figure out exactly what has been delivered. 
The theory of second best is such a 
menace because it wreaks havoc on 
policy decisions. A ntaional leader 
cannot decide, based on the limited in­
formation he possesses what all the ef­
fects of a given policy will be. Fur­
thermore, he cannot assess the relative 
long range and short range effects of a 
given policy. Everyone assumes that 
every politician should attempt to move 
the country closer to total satisfaction. 
What is needed, then, is a tool other than 
policy comparisons to accomplish suc­
cessful selection. 
daanifsbury 
~-----------------------------, 
r 
!lieSe/IAroR H/15

FROH 1Jie 1?£[}/UOO.O 
RCAUY 8EENCOH!NB

FOR£5TS... "fD THE 
ON STRONG 771£5£

6Vt.F5TRE/1.M
~ 

WlffeRSl 
lAST FeN A.JEekS 
r 
I t./1113 THRfl 
f 
r 
Alternatives 
Now all economists are not pledged to uphold the theory of second best just as one would hope that all voters are not committed to an equivalent sort of in­stitutionalized pessimism. What the theory of second best tells us in an election year is to judge candidates not by policies alone but by goals. It is only by looking at a candidate's particular 
goals  that it becomes  possible  to  cir­ 
cumvent the theory of second be st.  
Today  America  is  making  a  fun­ 

damental choice between two different goals for the country's future. One goal says that the best way to maximize the satisfaction of the American public is to cater to the self-interests of the middle and upper classes. The other says that the goal has to be one of forced equal opportunity. This is perhaps the most real of the choices that America will make today. We can only hope that Americans will use some insight when choosing between these goals. 
John Abowd 


,.arry trudeau 
~----------------------------~ 
WH'I, IF 'IOU" 
CL-OSE YOVR 
eYe5, YOU 
CI/N Rt.HOST 
P!ZerElVO lie's 
KENNE/JY 
I 



Crasslakes 

Halloween '72 
jaseph abell 

So Halloween, 1972 has come and gone, as the Halloweens before it. All Saint's Day, the "white" side of All Hallow's Eve's "black" image, has also gone by, and where do we find ourselves? 
Remember those fun days around the early sixties? Most of us at Notre Dame and St. Mary's were out late (but not too late) at night, going on our annual rounds of collecting various and sundry goodies from friends, neighbors, and anyone else who had something to give. October 31st was a time of finding a goldmine in an abandoned atticful of old masks and other costume materials. It was a time of ripping up Mommy's old and not so old sheets to produ..::e a cemetery-load of ghosts and goblins. It was a time when the most important thing in the world was how realistic you looked and how much stuff you could get in an hour. Itwas a time of fun. 
But it was something else, too. It w·as time of a first-time-ever CfJtllolic president's administration. It was a time of world crisis with thel~ay of Pigs and the Cuban missles. It was a time of the beginnings of strange long-haired group of young men called the Beatles who woutd start a musical revolution, and a time of tragedy as the first United States president in almost 50 years is shot to death. It was a time of change. 
So in ten or eleven years, where have we come? October 31, 1972 is a time of tension. The first presidential election in which the two op­ponents are so diametrically opposed on nearly everything looms in the near future, the oftentimes desperate campaign dominating the front pages of newspapers and magazines. It is a time of peace versus war as the conflict in the Vietnam War suddenly threatens to cease, yet the round peace table remains alone, the peace pacts remain virgins to the necessary signatures. 
It is a time of closer relations to Communist neighbors and more cooperation among the major world powers, and it is a time of greater tensions between the lesser powers, as witness West German release of Arab terrorists stemming from an airline hijack. It is a time when the revolution caused by the British rock group is reaching a musical peak. It is still a time of change. 
But back at home, what has happened? There are no more annual journies on the night of The Great Pumpkin. Parents, terrified by reports of sadisticallyinsane "neighbors" slipping little goodies such as razor blades, Exlax, and powdered glass in Halloween treats, have called a halt to the candy-collecting custom. Parties in the home is now the fashionable thing, with limited collecting. It is a time of fear. 
So that's the progression. A time of fun, a time of change and more change, a time of fear. So much change in so short a time, it almost makes me shudder when I think that I still have around 60 or 70 years left to go. 
It was revealed recently that extensive, feasible plans for installing communications devices in every private home, an effective Big Brother system, broadcasting and spying for the government, had been drawn up and presented to the government. Government of­ficials claim that the documents were rejected, and they probably were; but the fact that they were drawn up, seriously, and presented to agencies who seriously looked it over, points up that perhaps there really is something to the fear that is at the end of the Halloween progression. 
But there's where the 60 or 70 years I have left comfort me. There's so much time to try to change things back to where there's little of the Halloween fear. 
Last week, I voted in my first election. I selected the men I thought would best help turn back that fear. I hope I was right. If I was, next time will come easier. IfI was wrong, I'll vote them out and start over again. 
The progression is not finished; what will Halloween, 1990, see? or even Halloween, 1980? Will there even be an All Saint's Day after it? I don't know. But I do know I'll be in there fighting for it. 
the observer 

Managing Editor: Joe Abell  Night Editor:  Kathy Schwille  
News Editor: Anthony Abowd  Ass't.  Night  Editors:  Robert  
St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher  Baker, Sue Prendergast  
Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus  Sports Night Editor:  Vic Dorr  
Features Editor:  Rod Brave  Typists:  Barb  Norcross,  John  
Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson  Flannigan,  Dennis  Anastasoff,  
Campus Editor: Ann Therese Darin  Tom Modglin  
Associate Edilors:  Bob Higgins. Ed Ellis  night  controller:  mark  j.  
Special Projects Editor:  Dan Barrett  niederkorn  
Asst. Ad Manager:  Patti Strobel  
Elusiness Secretary: Ceil  Popovich  
Subscriptions Manager: Art Ferranti  
Production Manager: Joe Wilkowski  
Circulation:  John Woods  

Editorials printed in The Observer 
reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf 
of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Tuesday, November 7, 1972 the observer 
5 

l 
•

two differing v1ews of the black experience 
anatole broyard 

<c> 1972 New York Times News Service notion of what a female sexual organ is like. This, in face of the fact that his friends are 
These two books by black authors read as the sort who do not hesitate to copulate with if they were revolutions apart. Julius their girls in his presence. Mter somP 70-odd Lester's "Two Love Stories" are gentle, pages of build-up, if we can call it that, the sentimental, skin-deep, humorless and old­girl moves to another neighborhood, but not fashioned. Miss Toni Cade Bambara's 15 before vowing eternal friendship. Months stories in "Gorilla, my Love" are tough, later, Allen runs into her in a departmentviolent, funny and frantically "relevant." store. She is with another white girl and cuts Anyone who felt that black writing might be him dead-whereupon he goes home, pulls moving toward some kind of conformity down the basketball hoop and cries on the would find little evidence of it here. shoulder of his I-Told-Yim-So father. 
"Basketball Game," the first of Lester's The second novella, "Catskill Morning," two novellas, is as stiffly posed and is even stickier. In this one, Lester has anachronistic as something out of an old crossed the "color line" of the first story to 
family album or diary found in an attic. write about two of the "whitest" youngEven in their time and place, these pictures, people to be found in recent fiction. The girl these sentiments, can hardly have been is 16, a talented ballet dancer, infected to 
vivid or moving. Though there is no reason a her fingertips with a fairytale fondness for black author should not get down off the dramatizing herself. The boy, a bit older, is barricades if he wants to, it is difficult to a nature counselor in the camp she has been understand why Lester should have wished sent to while her parents are in Europe. 
.. to walk these featureless streets. Though .he feels that there is nothing so her stories to offer a deliberate and stocking cap." In spite of her relentless 
In this story a black 14-year-old boy and satisfying as being alone on a mountain and shocking contrast to Lester's. Everybody, contemporaneity, Miss Bambara his family move to an all-white neigh­her heart belongs to ballet, they manage including middle-aged mothers, seems to be recognizes a historical treasure when she borhood in Nashville. When Allen, the boy, somehow to fall in love. When they fall out fighting all the time. Men "Ice" (kill) their sees one. Though she_ is quite young, she plays basketball in his driveway, a white again, they stage a scene that Hollywood's wives simply because "something came has a talent for rendermg old people. In "My girl his age comes out from the house next most commercial producer would blush to over them." Almost all of the characters are Man Bovanne," the 61-year-old Hazel does a door and asks to play with his. They begin to put on at Radio City. dressed to the teeth in the latest styles in fine, grinding slow drag with old blind 
play regularly, but he is so afraid of bodily Seeing another girl touch her lover, the cynicism. And, of course, black English is Bovanne, their two bellies drumming a contact with her that he always stand by and ballerina-to-be feels that it "was like wat­spoken here. message old as black history, while her lets her outscore him. ching someone cut a beautiful flower they With all this, Miss Bambara is sometimes militant children chide her for being too 
Everybody, black and white, warns him couldn't love." Later on, "she envied the very funny, sometimes · very real and soulful for her age.against this peculiar friendship, but Allen pit!ces of wood he placed on the fire. They sometimes very good. There's a wonderful insists that it is innocent. It might well be, could feel his touch, but not her." And character in one of her stories called Miss Bambara gets pretentious once in a
for the author asks us to believe that, at 14. there's quite a bit more in the same vein. "M1ssissippi ham rider." He's an old blues while-pretty often, in fact-both in trying
Allen hasn't even a visual or conceptuai Miss Bambara reads as if she had written singer, past 70, who is being coaxed by a to turn black English into a staccato white record company scout and his young primitive poetry and in putting on airs with 
black secretary to go up north and record. the King's English when she comes over all Looking at the young black woman, literary. M~st of the time, though, her prose Mississippi ham rider says: "I don't sing no has a lot of JUmp, a fair amount of strut and
Little Bir:~ Screen 
cotton songs, sister ... and I ain't never an idiomatic authenticity uncluttered by the 
worked in the fields or shucked corn. And I ethnic cliches of the black chapter of the 
don't sing no nappyhead church songs angry young men. 
neither. And no sad numbers about losing It's not certain that the difference in
wait until dark 
my woman and losing my mind. I ain't quality between these twobooks can be 
never lost no woman and that's the truth." generalized into a broader statement about Once he is persuaded, the old blues black writers. It may be that Miss Bambara 
singers says: "I'm gonna get drunk directly is simply better, has closer to
or come 
and pack my things. My bad suspenders and "doing her thing," while Lester is still
art ferranli my green hat...one jar of Noxzema and my looking for his. 

The movies build momentum in greatness Five is showing at the State Theater. See this election week and, in doing so, pave the last Thursday's Observer for a more way for some high budget flicks at the end of detailed review. The New Centurians this week and some greats in the upcoming opened Friday at the Town and Country weeks <including Patton -but more about with George C. Scott and Stacy Keach. This that in my next column). realistic picture follows the exploits of 




transcendental meditation 

The suspense movie of the decade airs Keach from his entry into the L.A. Police Thursday on 22 at 9:00 when Alan Arkin, Academy, to his teaming up with veteran 
cop Scott, on their patrols, and to a powerful

Jack Western, and Richard Crenna stalk the Transcendental meditation as taught by out refreshed, clearer, more wide awake.
climax. Scott, although he is in the film for

blind Audrey Hepburn for a doll filled with Maharishi, Mahesh Yogi is gaining in more keenly aware of the more delicate 
a little over half its length, turns in another

smack in Wait Until Dark. This is all popularity on all levels of American society values of all objects of perception. With
astonishing performance. And Keach could 

established within the first few minutes of as scientific evidence mounts to support the regular practice, the individual's level of
easily cop (ouch!) an Oscar for best sup­

the film. I recomment it highly and that claims of its exponents about the beneficial awa~eness continues to. gro~_; and
porting actor. Based on Joseph Wam­

those who have seen it before do not disclose l'ffects of the technique for mental and medit~tors report that their ability to
baugh's novel, many of the subplots and

the ending to others. Like a well scripted physical health. This growth in interest has apprecia_te and ~herefo~e to I_ove a~so grows,
story twists are left in· the movie. But

play, all the little things introduced in the been so great that the August 31st issue of mhancmg their relationships With others
beware, when you least expect something to

beginning as matter-of-fact become crucial Thl' Wall street Journal reported: and their ?armony with the envi~o~ment.
occur, it does and here in rests the strength 

as the story progresses (i.e. the "thousands of otherwise conservative The regmement of mental activity or-
and power of the movie. Check a local paper 

refrigerator). Watch it with someone you businessmen scientists teachers and curring during the practice also brings
for the times of both films. (George Ken­

love or alone, but watch it in the dark. housewifes h~ve taken ~p the practice, abou~ a corresponding deep rest to t~e 
l
nedy is cast in the film adaptation of

Trut' Grit. the 1969 picture that made reporting such beneficial effects as freedom physical nervous system. In the S~pt. 71
Wambaugh's second novel The Blue Knight 

possible an Oscar for John Wayne, from tension, mental well-being and 1ssue of . T_he A mer. J~ur~al of Physi.olo~y."
It's release date is not yet known.)

premieres on the ABC Sunday Night Movie. heightened energy and creativity." T.M. and a?am m t~e ~eb. 72 Issue of Scien~Jfic
Trivia-The New York Times reported the 

Wayne plays the one-eyed sheriff Rooster has been introduced into public school Anwncan scientist at Harvard Medical
changes in "the Dick Cavett Show" to be 

I
Cogburn with Glen Campbell as a young systems as an effective means of improving School r~p?rted_ that a_ state of "r~stful
instituted after the first of the year. Under

"t inborn" deputy and Kim Darby as a girl grades. creativity, personal adjustment and alertn~ss r~ gamed durmg ~e practrce of
the title of "ABC Wide World of En­

out for revenge. It is Wayne at his best (or social relations as well as an effective T.M. rn which the metabolic rate drops
tertainment" one week will feature the

worse depending on your point of view) deterent to drug abuse. Last spring, ten twice as deep as in ~eep sleep, ~eartt:>eat
Cavett show, another the new "Jack Paar

highlighted with a classic sequence of the NASA scientists along with astronaut slows, an.d . vanous physi?lo~Ical
Show" (Running against Paar's old "The

Duke charging on his horse with two rifles Russell Schweickart and his family began parameters mdicate a deep relaxatw_n mall
comedy-variety week

blazing into a band of baddies. ABC paid a Tonight Show"), a the technique and are encouraging others to parts of the nervous system, while the 
bundle for this one a consisting of "Let's Celebrate" ( a broad­
( 6 million is con­do the same; and even .the army has electroencephalographic re~dings show the 
way type atmosphere) with Tony Roberts

servative estimate) but it is worth the sponsored courses on several posts, in-mmd to be very alert. T~Is deel? rest has
<Broadway's Sugar), "Madhouse 90" ( a

viewing. It rides amid a cloud of dust and a eluding Fort Dix, N.J. and Fort Bliss, been found to. be_ very r~Juvenatmg _to .~he
comedy news show with David Frost) for 75

hearty "Hi Yo Silver" (opps! wrong flick) minutes leaving 45 minutes for "Bedtime Texas, finding that the technique improves ~.ystem, allo~mg rt to begm to normalize to 
at 9:00. morale and increases ability to act under throw off de_ep root~d. acCUJ?Uiated
Stories", and a few original dramas, and the 

Saturday Rock Hudson, Elizabeth Taylor, stressful conditions. There are currently s~re~s.es and ~ens1?ns. Th1s 1s particularly
fourth week labelled "Dream Week" con­

and James Dean star in Giant a flick about some 80 meditators enrolled at St. Mary's srgmfrcant, smce rt h~s been prop?sed by
sisting of "Classic Horror Theater,"

ranches, oil, and a number of the typical and Notre Dame and more begin with each members of the medical commumty that
"Menace" "Whodunnit," "Late Night

love-trangle, etc., sub-plots. The movie was new course. ' approximately 80 per cent of all modern
Theater," "Love Stories," "Precinct,"

the last for Dean, a heart throb of the late Transcendental Meditation is a simple diseases, including hypertension, high blood 
"Metropolitan Night Court," and T"New

fifties and early sixties. He was killed in an natural, mental technique practiced 'for pressure and cardiace arrest, are caused by
York Theater." The formats will be flexible 

aoutomobile accident. The movie will be about 15-20 minutes twice a day while one is stress in the nervous system.
and will sometimes last two hours. From

shown in two parts, on Saturday and sitting quietly with eyes closed. It requires For all this, T.M. is completely natural
Nov. 20 to Dec. 8, when Cavett goes on


Monday both at 9:00 p.m. and on 16. no belief in any philosophy or religion, or the and involves no effort. It can be easily
vacation, a few of these programs will be

The Crooked Hearts (Wednesday at 8:30 adoption of an offbeat life style, nor does it learned by anyone in a matter of hours, no
previewed as specials. Personally, I do not

on 28) seems to be a spin off on The Lonely involve any unusual positions ... one simply matter whether they are sceptics or ­
think Carson has much to worry about.

Hearts Murders (a picture one should miss) sits comfortably in a chair while doing the believers, because the technique is entirely 
with Rosalind Russell and Douglas Fair­technique. Far from becoming spaced out automatic. 
banks Jr. <who, incidentally, received an Trivia Quiz-Name the organization Joe or passive, meditators find they can ac-
award from Notre Dame last year for his Mannix worked for, its boss, and the actor 
tually function more effectively in the high­excellence in actingl. It is made for T.V. who played him in Mannix's first year. pressured rat race than before they began Free introductory lectures, open to the 
public will be given this week:

The last movie is Hornets' Nest wherin meditation. 
I st lntro. Lecture ... Tues, Nov. 7 ... 8:00

Rock Hudson leads a group of kids as During the time of meditation, the mind p.m .... l05 O'Shaugynessy
commandoes during World War II. This is settles down to quieter and subtler regions :!nd P1·esp. Lecture ... Wed., Nov. 8 .... 8:00strictly comic book material. It airs at 9:00 of thought, remaining keenly alert to ex­p.m .... l05 O'ShaughnessyFriday on 22. There are no films on any of perience this increasingly more delicate 
the major networks due to the elections and refined mental activity, until it tran­
tonight. ·enauadumJ qdasor scends thought altogether to experience a 
On the South Bend screens t.wo excellent +Jopy ·weqsJa:lFJ!M snO'] :ssog 'PalJal state of maximum alertness and yet inner films are being shown. Slaughter-House -UI :UOHt:?Z!Ut:?~JO :Z!nb t:?!A!JJ. Ol JaMSUV quietness. The effect is that the mind comes For more information call 283-3693. 
l 



Tuesday, November 7, 1972

the observer

6 

• ~ ~ 
t 
~ 
t 
~ 
•~ 
• 
.; l 

• ~ 
• 

~ 

-


We don't make a lot of noise, but this is where it's really happening. You see, a large corporation like Kodak has the resources and the skill to make this world a little more de­cent place to live. And we intend to do what we can to see that this is exactly what happens. 
'Thke our home city, Rochester, New York for exam­ple. We cut water pollution in the Genesee River by using natural bacteria to dispose of unnatural wastes. We cut air pollution by using electrostatic precipitators in a new com­bustible waste disposal facility. We helped set up a black enterprise program in downtown Rochester, and we've been experimenting with film as a way to train both teachers and students-including some students who wouldn't respond to anything else. 
And we didn't stop with Rochester. Kodak is involved in 47 countries all over the world. Actively involved. 

Why? Because it's good business. Helping to clean the Genesee River not only benefits society ... but helps pro­tect another possible source for the clean water we need to make our film. Our combustible waste disposal facility not only reduces pollution ...but just about pays for itself in heat and power production and silver recovery. Our black enterprise program not only provides an opportunity for the economically disadvantaged ... but helps stabilize communi­ties in which Kodak can operate and grow. And distributing cameras and film to teachers and students not only helps motivate the children ... but helps create a whole new market. 
In short, it's simply good business. And we're in busi­ness to make a profit. But in furthering our business interests, we also further society's interests. 
And that's good. After all, our business depends on society. So we care what happens to it. 



Kodak 
More than abusiness. 
Tuesday, November 7, 1972 the observer 
7 



Pears discusses role of security in students' lives 
by Jim Ferry Staff Reporter 
The Notre Dame Security Director Aurthur Pears met with a group of students last night in the Flanner "Pit" for an informal discussion on the role of Security in the student's life. 
Pears was. initially questioned about why a post-wire fence was located halfway between the towers and the memorial library. The Flanner tower resident said· that many people had been hurt tripping over it and that he could see no purpose for its existence. 
Pears responded that he "saw no reason" why the fence couldn't be taken down and he promised to look into the matter. 
The question of speed bumps on old Juniper Road also came up and opened wider discussion of tran­sportation problems on campus. 
.Pears said that he had recom­mended speed bumps for both the main gate and old Juniper Road, but that the "Traffic and Safety Committee rejected the initial proposal." Pears felt that speed bumps were also needed behind Dillon and Alumni Halls by the golf course. He said that speed bumps "effective" in his own mind. "The proof of the pudding is in the eating; shopping centers use 
them as safety features with great success." 
Pears went on to say that he "wouldn't be too surprised to see the day when no traffic at all will be allowed on campus." He said that White field could be used for employee parking and shuttle buses could take people from­parking areas to specific areas on campus. He used the Michigan State University shuttle-bus service as an example of the 
numerous possibilities available for future consideration. He emphasized that this traffic ban would have to be applied to "all traffic or it will meet with a lot of opposition." 
When asked of the university bicycle situation, he said that one bicycle theft had been reported over the past weekend. He said that approximately 25 bicycles have been stolen since the beginning of the year with a total value loss of about $2500. 
He termed the failure of bicycle registration efforts as "too bad." 
"We had a pretty good program. The Observer and WSND did a tremendous job of publicity for us, but only 60 students bothered to register their bikes. I'd just like to know what it takes to move people." 
Pears expressed concern that 

SMC to have ellection eve snacks 
Saga Food Service at Saint politica~ ~araph_analia: • ry's plans special election eve Televisions will be mstalled ~or complete with snacks in the up-to-date coverage of e~ecbon 
hall for students who wish to ret~rns, an? snacks will be and check on the progress of available until 2:00 a.m. favorite candidates. The approximately 60-70 tables 
to Food Committee in the cafeteria may be de~ignated n Barb McKiernan, the b~ stat~, and ot?er suggesbo_ns are hall will be divided into ~til~ bemg cons~dered. ~cK1ernan and Nixon sections, and md1ca~ed last m~h.t that fmal plans 
be decorated with posters and are still not deflmte. 
the first big snow will result in a lot of bikes being crushed by snow plows when they clear off the sidewalks. He encouraged students to use available bike racks and not the wire and pole sidewalk fences. 
"New bike racks have been bought for the Towers, Badin, Walsh, and the Architecture Building. Others will be bought when the need arises." 
Pears told of the engraving equipment available from the Security office. 
"We've had little response. For only a $15 deposit, a hall can use one of our engravers and mark social security numbers on stereos, radios, tape decks and all manner of personal property. If the property was stolen, at least we'd be able to identify it. R.A.'s could handle it perfectly. Lar­cency in the dormitories has been nominal this year, some in Morrissey and Fisher. We've been lucky. We feel our theft is down, but larceny and vandalism are still two of our biggest problems." 
A complaint was voiced on university parking policy for football Saturdays. Pears replied that his opinion "wasn't worth a nickel because no one listens." 
·'I don't think that any student should have to pay for parking on a football Saturday after 11:00." 
Pears explained the traffic violations ticketing procedure and emphasized that no group on campus can avoid paying for 
tickets. 
1' "Every ticket is accounted for. Internal Auditing· holds me responsible for every one. If they don't pay the fine the fine is transferred over td Student Ac­counts. If you don't pay, you don't graduate. "Phantom" students who tear tickets off cars are only hurting their fellow students. We have a record of all vehicles 






SPECIAL SCHOLARSHIP OFFER. 
CLASS OF '75 ONlY.

r--··-----------,
Scholarship Includes: 2-year tuition ... free! $100 II monthly. Book allowance, lab fees, etc. 
I How to qualify: I
1 Just send in the coupon, or talk to the Professor of 1 Aerospa,ce Studies on your campus. (If you're class II of '76, next year is your year.) 
I I
U.S. Air Force Recruiting Service Directorate of Advertising {RSAV) 
I 
Randolph Air Force Base
I 
I 
Texas 78148 
I 
Please send me more informati,on on your 2-year scholarship 
I 
progrom. 
I 
Name · Birth Date______ 
I I
Address Sex
I I
City County State Zip 
Present College Future College 
I 
I Soc.Sec.#---------------------­
1 FINI~ YOURSELFA SCHOLARSHIP I 
______________...
IN AIR FORCE ROTC. 
2-NR-1121
L 


NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
presents 
SUMMER AND SMOKE 
Tennessee William's beautifully fragile drama of frustrated love 
Washir,~ton Hall Notre Dame campus Nov. 10, 11, 16, 17, 18at8:30pm Students $1.50 Phone Reservations 284-4176 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
ticketed, and we have no idea if a ticket was torn off or if it was blown off going down Notre Dame Avenue." 
Pears felt that if students would register their bicycles and mark their personal effects, the effects of crime on campus would be notably decreased. 
The discussion ended up with Pears recounting a few memorable cases he has en­countered in N.D: Security work. He told of the theft of the film, "The Yellow Submarine," after a Student Government sponsored showing in Washington Hall two years ago. Student Government had to pay $350 for the stolen film. 18 months later, the film was found by county officials southwest of South Bend in a tree. Pears said that he's going to try and get a hold of the film once again. 
Security Director Arthur Pears met with students at Flanner last 
.... 

night. 
WANTED 
Need ride to Baltimore for Thanksgiving. Prefer to leave 11­17 if possible. Call Steve 6798. 
Wanted-Ride to Detroit Friday ­Nov. 10. Call Tony 1422. 
Need ride to Boulder, Colo. or Denver this weekend. Will share driving & expenses. Call Steve 1435. 
Student Union Secretary needed for Mon, Wed, Fri afternoons. Call 7757 for information. 
Need ride to Milwaukee for 3 on Nov. 10, Call 4409. 
Need 3 general admission tickets for Miami. Paul 8276. 
Need Thanksgiving ride to Omaha (Weds. or Tues.). Will share expenses and driving. Kevin 1329. 
Need: 3general admission Miami tix, call Gil 6125. 
Riders needed to Philadelphia. Leaving November 18. phone 7803. 
Need ride to Cincinnati, this week. Call Rich 6789. 
IN DIRE NEED of 4 Miami tix­call K. Graham -234-6397 after 6. 
FOR SALE 
CRYPT SPECIAL SALE New Moody Blues -Seventh Sojourn and Peter Townsend's Who Came First: $3.35. Open 2-7, closed Tues & Sunday. 
Must sell: Round trip & ad­Ill iss ion ticket to Air Force. 8906. 
Acoustic 270 amp, 271-272 cabinets. $1400-best offer. 8029. 
For sale, One Air Force Trip ticket. Best offer. Call Dan-6842. 
Must sell 1 student trip ticket to Air Force Game. Call Dan 1341. 
'62 Ford very good condition. 
Best offer 234-9765 after 5 pm. 
'69 VW, semi-automatic, AM-FM radio, excellent condition. $1450. Call Steve after 5:00, 234-3389. 
PERSONAL 
Bona & Heidkamp: I write this for the 4th and 7th but unfortunately the Italian mail is for shit! Happy days ... 
kress 
Zeke and the Rat say Happy Birthday, Kay. 
big AI and LITTLE Floyd: Thank God it's over!! The Subordin<Jtes 
!hanks~ for the surprise--think I'll renew your contract for another year. 
m. 
LOST AND FOLINO 
Lost: soft-cover New Jerusalem Bible in cardboard case around Nieuwland. Reward. Call 1782. 
Reward -keys lost Sat. between Cavanaugh and the bookstore, 1369. 
Lost black I.D. holder-valuable, call 4284. 
NOTICES 
Contribute to Chimes Poetry, Fiction, Photography, Art Work. Room 129 Madaleva. Nov. 7 -Deadline 
Europe Over Christmas! Fly with the best -fly BOAC. $213 round trip! British Overseas Airways Corp. Call Clark 283-8810 for details. 
HELP the helpless unborn, with time, money, or both. Right to Life, Inc. 233-4295. 
Sports Car Club now being for­med, call Phil 272-9914 evenings. 
Weedkay Community Study Club proudly announces the birth of •ts first second generation member, Alissa Mave Creach, on Oct. 29, 1972. Celebration meeting Wednesday night: 9:30. Call Mike if you can come. 288-2887. 
Attention N D Students! Need money for Thanksgiving vacation? Borrow from Morrissey Loan Fund 11:15-12:15 Monday Friday. Basement of LaFortune. 
THE BOAR'S HEAD Opening in November A young organization with a new concept in dining, featuring a limited steak and lobster menu. We are now completing con­struction of our building which uses old English decor and five fireplaces to add to a warm an elegant atmosphere. Accepting Applications for cooks, bartenders, waiters, waitresses cashiers, dishwashers, dining room work. We'll be hiring about 60 full and part time people lor our opening crew. An ex­cellent opportunity for a "fun" and interesting job for the school year and summer. Please apply in person at the 
BOAR'S HEAQ 31 North -next to Howard John­son's Restaurant. 9 am to 6 pm. Ask for l-lenry or Bill 


8 the observer Tuesday, November 7, 1972 


Irish jayvee's rebound, dump Spartans 31-7 
by (;rt>g Corgan Moerdyk, who had thrown for and Zloch was unyielding. After three touchdowns in the team's State's sixth punt of the game Fred It was a cold. cloudy afternoon first Pncounter could manage only Trosko. the third Notre Dame Friday when the Irish JV's met the five completions in sixteen at-quarterback of the afternoon led Spartans of Michigan State but for tl'mpts and suffered one in-thP Irish downfield and after the Coach Dmny Murphy and his terception. That interception by drive stalled on the MSU 15,squad it was a bright one. After junior Jim Zloch came in the first Stephan boomed a 32 yard field 
losing two weeks ago in East actually set
pPriod and up goal to close out the scoring for the Lansing, 26-14, the junior Irish Michigan State's only score. aftPrnoon. · 
dl•molished State 31-7 and evened After Zloeh had returned the 
their sPason's record at 2-2. ball to the Spartan 39 yard line Coach Murphy was quick to 
Th(' game was originally to have Allocco hit Moty with an 18 yard praise his team's performance. twen playPd on the Astro-turf field pass down to the MSU 19. However "We got fired up and we went after at Cartier. but th~ Spartans the Irish could go nowhere and them." he said, "we improved upon daimPd they didn't have the .lack Stephan came on to try a 29 things we didn't have last weekend proper shoes for artificial surface. yard field goal. But a low snap against Michigan." Murphy was So th<' ~a me was moved to a grass mabled hard-charging Michigan also happy witn his defensive unit. fil'ld and for Notre Dame it made Stat£' lineman Brian McKay to "Wl' played superb defense," he no difft•rl'nce. As Coach Murphy block the kick and middle guard added, "we knocked down two or latPr put if. "they didn't want to Greg Hagbom picked up the loose three passes at the line of scrim­play on the Astro-turf ~o we went ball and rambled 67 yards for mage." out and beat them under their own State's only score of the afternoon. 
Quarterback Allocco, who
conditions." Dirk Krij't of The Netherlands 
rPceived the game ball for his 

• 
And bPat them the Irish did as added the extra point and. with 3; 45 efforts. gave credit to the line and quarterback Frank Allocco threw remaining in the first quarter the 
his receivers . 
lor three touchdowr.s, and a total of Spartans were on top 7-0. 
Next weekend in Knoxville, the
tPn Irish backs led by Tom Parise But the Notre Dame defense 
Ll'prechauns take on the baby

t and Paul Linehan rushed for 228 stiffened and didn't allow 
Volunteers of Tennessee in their
vards. Michigan State inside the ND 20 
season finale. The game already

· Alloceo. a . ·phomore from New the rest of the day. Meanwhile, A blitzing Morrissey linebacker forces hasty execution of a rollout. 
has an expected crowd of 25,000.
Providence. New Jersey, hit split Frank Allocco was back in action 
l'nd Kevin Doherty with a 10 yard and early in the third quarter put 
scoring toss culminating a 10-play, the Irish up 21-7 with a 44 yd. bomb 

I 1-ha/1 football playoffs set114-vard drive early in the second to Moty who put an unbelievable qu~trter. Then midway into the move on defensive back Elish enabled Farley to finish above thesl'cond period defensive end Bob Burno and scampered into the end by Stan Urankar Morrisst>y !!, Lyons 0 .500 level for the season, aSweeney recovered Spartan Dave zone untouched for the score. The regular season is remakrable rurnabout from lastA bad snap from center on aFortney's fumble at the MSU 30. Rich Slager then took over the over, and four teams are year's 1-4 squad. Both scores cameLyons punt attempt set theAllocco was sacked for an eight eontrols and with Parise, Linehan, ready to enter Interhall in the second half with reserveMarauders up for their lone scorevard loss but on the very next play and Tony Brantley doing most of football's semifinal round next quarterback Bill Powers leading
late in the first half. Morrissey got dropped back and hit freshman the work directed the Irish on a 7 weekend. Morrissey, Breen­the offense.
the ball at
Ll•onard Moty with a 38 yard play 55-yard drive with Linehan Phillips, and Stanford had already the one and tailback 
Paul Breen did the honors, getting clicked on
strike. Jack Stephan booted his scoring from the four. Stephan earned post-season berths, and Powers a 14-yard 
the touchdown and ocnversion to scoring aerial with Mike Kemp,second of four extra points and at again added the point and Notre defending champion Dillon make him the leading scorer in then hit Tom Monahan with thehalftime Notre Dame was on top Dame had a comfortable 28-7 lead. rounded out the final four Sunday Interhall this season (5 TD's, 4 extra point pass for an 8-o edge.
14-7. The Irish defense,led by a line of afternoon by blanking unbeaten Pxtra point runs, 38 points).

ThrougHout the afternoon Steve Km Andler. Nick Federenko, Tom Holy Cross to take the League One Less than ten minutes later,
"Our offense looked inconsistent 
Moerdyk and the Spartan offense Hutkowski and Bob Sweeney and erown. .John Ostergag capped a Farley
again," remarked Ron Slayer,
were throttled by the Irish JV's. the secondary of Sarb, Chauncey, drive by going 10 yards around end 
Marauder coach. "We had a for the score. Powers then ran forDillon IIi. Holy Cross o scoring drive on the opening the conversion points to seal theseries, but the referees said we
Ruggers win 9th, eye 
verdict.
"Their defensive line and 

didn't get in. That gave them the 
linebackers did the job," said HC momentum." split end John Galey, who had "We played without our two 
Zahm 1:1, Cavanaugh 6averaged seven receptions a game starting offensive tackles, Ken

midwest area crown 

going into Sunday's contest, but Gillig and Craig Fowler," Salyer The winners jumped out to a 13-o The Notre Dame rugby team second half was fairly even, but the pulled in only two against the Big added, "but they'll be ready by the edge in the first half, negating a 55­Irish applied consistent pressure to 
recorded its biggest win of the Red. "Our offensive line just Dillon Game next weekend." yard touchdown bomb from Greg 

season and possibly one of the the visiting Lions. couldn't hold them back long Corgan to Jim Reiger that putbiggest in its history this past Finally, Greiwe scored on a try Pnough to give Mark (Anzelon) Alumni 12, Sorin o Cavanaugh on the board.enough time to throw."
Saturday when it upset the and O'Connell added the con­Middle guard Dave Mayer raced dl'fending Mid-West champion version to tie the game at 12. Then, Dillon drove to the Holy Cross Rich Soeder did it again as he onChicago Lions with a 15-12 come­with less than four minutes left, the three-yard line early, but Pat boosted Alumni to a third straight through to block a punt 

thelosers' opeining possession, and from-behind victory. Irish were awarded a penalty kick Bathon stopped halfback Craig win and third place in the final 
and O'Connell's 35-yard boot was Tigh in a fourth-and-goal situation. League One standings. The Putt­recovered in the end zone for a Thl' previously undefeated The next play got the Big Red on quick six points, with Mike Mur­
good and gave ND the win. sburgh junior raced for both touch­
Lions. generally considered the the board, though. Senior taugh booting the conversion.

The intensity with which the downs, one on a 25 yard pass from 
strongest team in the midwest , 
linebacker Ed Carney shot through 

was summed up by Zahm
were beaten by the best Irish effort Irish played quarterback Jose Alonzo, and the The defense forced
the H'C line to nail running back

one of the officials, an English­other on his own 40 yard scoring Cavanaugh into three fumbles,this season. 
Dan Dwxlewski in the end zone for

man. who said: scamper. with one of end Kerry Powers' two
a safety.
Ed O-Connell scored 11 of ND's "I've seen teams ~lay in recoveries leading to the final 

15 points to pace the upset, but the Holland, England, and on the A pass interference call put the Farley Hi. St . .Jost>ph 0 tally, a 10-yard run by jalfback
Big Red on Holy Cro£4.·' 26-yard line 

victory came from a team effort. continent, but I've never seen a Petee Gottsacker. 
on the next series. From there, A pair of second half scoresHooker Doug Smego and props team hit like Notre Dame did 
split end Bill Hoy took off on an end
Hobo Olsen and OConnell con­wday." The ruggers' record now 
reverse on fourth down, and
trolled the set serums against the stands at 9-2. 
sprang loose following QB Randy 

Dunne paces harriers
veteran Chicago front line. Lee The Irish "B" team travelled to 
Pallardy, Dan Lee,and Jerry Razer Marquette this past weekend and 
Stasik's crackback block to go in hl'ld thl'ir own against the much for the score. Stasik's pass to tight
was tied by the Warriors "A" 
end Paul Michaels got the extra
taller Lions in the lineouts, while team, o-o. The Irish "C" squad 


in tri-meet triumph
points, and Dillon led, 10-o, at the
Tom Masenga and captain Joe played Marquette's "B" side in a 

half. whichcreated many openings for scoreless deadlock. The· Big Red broke loose for made his final home appearance a as he tied his personal best with a Hafner played hard-hitting games match that also ended in a Senior Captain Dan Dunne Dunne was the individual winner 
their final score as the game was

the Irish. The ruggers end their season this successful one Sunday as he led the time of 24:20 for the five mile weekend when they take on the ending. Hoy pulled down a Notre Dame Cross Country team to eourse. The wins were Dunne's 
The Notre Dame backs, after a 

University of Chicago in the Windy deflected Stasik aerial and convincing victories over the fifth and sixth this year in eight
spPII of reorganization, proved City (on Saturday) and travel to scampered 35 yards to the waiting dual meets. Only Northwestern's
University of Chicago Track
thl'mselves as able as their Lion Palmer College on Sunday for a end zone. Dillon thus finishes their Jim Noe and Indiana's Steve
Club <20-40l and the Indiana
counterparts. Some hard running match with the defending national five league games with 158 points , Heidenreich have been able to
Striders (16-39 l in a trangular
by Don Greiwe, Dave Simpson, compared to a total of five first defeat the Notre Dame star.
collegiate champions. meet.
and John Greving enabled the Irish downs for their opponents. Lesch of finished
John UCTC 
to control much of the game. Ed a distant second Sunday in 24:36,Fishburne got the ball to the backs but a trio of ND runners followed to

.... NO's iunior icers drop season opener 6-4
while Herb Giorgio and Fred 

insure the victory. Junior MartyManley turned in steady per­the Irish, as Ecorse scored three First period ... Hill ran third in a personal best of
by Tim Neuville

formances on the wings. Jeff goals to ND's one. In that periods, ND Novitzke (Olive) 5:34 24:45 and senior Jeff Eichner and Warnimont gave the Irish Hockey coaches Tim McNeill the ND icers were hurt by five ND Howe (Novitzke, freshman Jim Hurt tied for fourthconsistently good field position and Kevin Hoene sat through a Stelmaszynski l 15:08 in 25:16
penalties and lost defensive

with his kicks. disappointing home and season EC Yanick (Roberts) 18:52 Jim McLatchie of UCfC, Mike
standout Gary Gallagher for two 
opener Sunday as their JV icers Gahagan of ND, former BostonThe game was advertised as a weeks with a shoulder separation. 

lost, 6-4, to the Ecorse, Michigan,

bloodbath and a hard-hitting affair Marathon star and Sports it was. The Lions suffered junior team. The junior icers will be out to Second period ... lllustratf.'d writer Hall Higdon of numerous injuries-including a Things started well for Notre even their record next Saturday EC Fenton <Morrison, Blanzy) the Striders, Mar Armenio of the 
Dame's JV's as they jumped off to against Park Ridge. Faceoff time 13:23
broken jaw and two knee injuries­Irish. and Kevin Keogh of UCfC 
a 2-0 lead midway through the first is 3:00p.m.

and NO's Greiwe was knocked EC Hasler (Dorosh) 16:28 rounded out the top ten. 
period. Freshman Pat Novitzki EC Hasler (unassisted) 17:01 their
unconscious on the first play of the The harriers ended dual 
scored the opening goal and

gaml' and missed much of the first ND Augustine (unassisted, ml'ets with a 4-4 record and now 
assisted on the second, but the

half. shorthanded l 18:22 travel to Bowling Green for the
Scoring summary :
Irish spurt didn't last. Ecorse's Central Collegiate Meet on

E.corse 1 3 2 6
ND spotted the Lions a 12-o lead goaltending combination stiffened Saturday and from there to New

Notre Dame 2 1 I 4

in the first half, but never gave up, and allowed only two more goals in Third period ... 
York City for the IC4A Meet on 
and a pair of penalty kicks by the last two and one-half periods EC Kirkup <McKay) 7:55 Monday. Both of these meets are O'Connell shaved the margin to 12-while turning away 34 shots. ND Byers (Olive) 8:51 
qualifiers for the NCAA Meet in
Scoring:

6 at the half. The first part of the The second period was fatal to EC Dorosh (Hasler) 10:08 Houston 






