On The Inside 
Henry and the SMC Con­vocation ...pa·ge 3 
Abell looks at Rod Stewart ...page7 
Vol. VII No. 11 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Friday, September 22, 1972 

At St. Mary's 
Fourteen seats filled in Assembly races 
Saint Mary's filled fourteen seats on the Student Assembly yesterday in an election that saw only one race out of four contested. 
Freshman Debbie Beck and Judy Mardoian won the two freshman-at-large seats on the A­ssembly, defeating Lisa Kinney by moderate margins. None of the other races saw a fight and Holy Cross was unable to fill the three seats allotted to the hall, electing only Jackie Eickholt with 117 votes. The other two seats will be filled by the Election Comr:nittee within the next week. 
In McCandless Hall, Cathy Schell came out on top with 59 votes, leading Lynn Mosberg by one and Barb Wolfsten by two. All were elected. 
In LeMans Hall, five women were chosen, all within three votes of each other: Cathy Foley, Gale Fromm, Diana Gavin, Ellen Hanahue, and Beth Jones. There were no losers. 
Regina elected three representatives, all within six votes of each other: Denise Peterson, Betsy Nolan and Mary Beth Gillespie. As in the other halls, there were no losers. 
Regina Hall also elected Vice-Presidents to replace a transfer student. Two vice-presidents were elected, each without oppo:;;~tion. Cathy · Hutter won in the North sect;ot of the hall, and Mary Jane Silvia won in the South part. 
Student Body President Jean Seymour was pleased with the election, saying, "Now we'll be able to move ahead with a lot of proposals of concern to the students." 
Seymour included parietals and 24-hour open lobbies as matter of immediate concern. 
The first meeting of this year's Assembly is scheduled for next week sometime. 

Seymour: 'Now we'll be able to move ahead with a lot of proposa Is of concern to students.' Parieta Is and open lobbies first on list. 

Frank Devine takes last SLC district election 
After a mixup in balloting for SLC representative in District 5, Frank Devine took the position in a special election yesterday. 
Devine led the field with 193 ballots cast in his favor. Of his opponents, Dennis Etienne took 118 votes, Jan Waltman 102, and Rick Hilton 76. 
Because of a mixup during the regular elections which prevented all the residents of Badin Hall from voting, the special balloting was held at Badin yesterday. The last results were then added to the earlier ones received from Dillon, Sorin, Alumni, and Walsh halls, the other four members of District Five, Wednesday. 
Upon hearing the final ­verification of his victory, Devine was ecstatic. He was aware that ­Wednesday's results had placed him in the lead, but had been ap­prehensive about the late Badin election. 
"It was like tasting victory, having it snatched away, and then having it returned again," he commented. 
He also announced his plan to make good use of his seat. 
"In past years the SLC has merely served as a debate club instead of acting as a major force in relieving the administration of the burden of improving the qu­ality of student life on campus," he said. "I plan to take an active role in attempting to rectify this situation, and I urge my fellow SLC members to do likewise." 


Devine: Intends to put newly acquired seat to 'good use.' 
During the special election a surprise move was made by a previously unannounced can­didate, Jan Waltman. Her name had not been entered on the ballot for the originally scheduled election, so Wednesday she launched a last-minute, door-to-do­or campaign in Badin as a write-in candidate. Her efforts won her the 102 votes which placed her third in the final count. 
The Irish are ready 
..• story on page 11 
No American died in Vietnam:~Iast week 
••• see page J2 
the observer
2 
McGovern battles Nixon and the polls 

Caddell had just rachecked voters Gilligan reminded McGovern of he had interviewed in July and John Kennedy's remark elec­
on August and discovered that almost tion night in 1960 when he lost Ohio all of those who had abandoned to Richard Nixon: 'No state gave
McGovern earlier had returned to me bigger crowds or fewer votes." 
the fold. Perhaps more significant, Caddell's news proved to be less heartening than it seemed at first. His own polling is not structured to produce the kind of oversimplified 
McGovern vs. the polls: both sides 
pre-election results of George

~ 
seem to be winning, a reason for 
Gallup and Louis Harris, and his 

a Senator's dismay. 
information that the Gallup Poll 

r Campus happenings
i 
I I 
r 
ND language boo~,,~.e:~g,~~ th• 
' 
The University of Notre Dame for the first time a real and Minoan Civilization flourished as Press has been informed by the tangib~e sp~ce, gave w~ig~t and one of the greatest Mediterranean Modern Language Association of matenal existences to hiS figures civilizations. America that one of its recent and an abstract order· and Part of the Museum's "Museum 
releases has been chosen for in-equilibrium to his compositions. Without walls" art film series, the 
elusion in the Scholar's Library, A_l~hough t~day only com-motion picture was directed by the Association's book club. positional outlines and traces of Hans-Joachim Hossfeld and in-
The book, "Poetry and Crisis in mode~ing are preserv~ in h~s eludes footage from the 'Heraklion the Age of Chaucer," was written creations at the Peruzzi Chapel m Museum in Crete and the Athens by Charles Muscatine, a professor Santa Croce, the Chapel was often National Archaeological Museum. at the University of California at called the school of the The film series is co-sponsored Berkeley, and was released in Renaissance because Giotto's by the South Bend Art Center and spring of 1972. paintings were studied there by the Notre Dame Cultural Arts Com-
Titles for inclusion in the greatest 15th century Florentine miSSIOn. Tickets may be pur­Scholar'sLibraryareselectedbya masters. chased at the South Bend Art by James Doyle Further, Caddell said, he had would bear out his findings proved Gallup had sent his troops into the 
information that the next Gallup -inaccurate. field last weekend and the results<c> 1972 Washington Star-News Poll would substantiate his fin-McGovern has been traveling would show a dramatic increase 
Columbus, Ohio, Sept. 21 --When 
dings, and that in the next few about the country telling audiences for McGovern. Both proved false. Senator George McGovern landed weeks McGovern might jump as that public opinion polls are In fact, Gallup says, the organ­here Tuesday night his spirits were much as 14 points in the public op-"rubbish" and "made up in the ization has not taken a nationwide sent soaring by two events. ion ion surveys. back rooms'' of the polling survey on the presidential race 
His old party adversary, But the good news proved mostly organizations. since Aug. 25, but is planning to do Governor John Gilligan, had illusory. During the next 24 hours There has been ample evidence so this weekend. gotten together with the McGovern McGovern found that factionalism over the years that the pollsters And the indications, based on the organization, regular Democrats was still hurting campaign efforts; miss important nuances and polls of Louis Harris and the and the forces of the United Auto that there was still some strain oversimplify the choices and the pollsters for the Nixon CampaignWorkers to turn out more than between his young workers and the reasoning of voters. But if the polls Committee, are that in these 5,000 persons at the airport in a regulars; and A.F.L. -C.I.O. are "rubbish," pollsters can be surveys Nixon continues to hold a city noted for its attachment to leader Frank King declined to · comforted by the knowledge that two-to-<>ne lead over McGovern, w­Republicans and especially show up for a labor and regulars no other rubbish is taken so ser-ith a point spread of more than 30 President Nixon. strategy session at the Governor's iously aboard McGovern's cam-points between them. 
And his young pollster, Pat Ca­mansion, an indication that the paign plane. With polls showing McGovern ddell, was waiting at the airplane men who made the Democratic At the end of each week rumors far behind Nixon as of early this ramp with some exciting news -­Party here still were not converted. begin to spread aboard the planes. month, the overwhelming evidence 
pancl of d~tiqu~hed sch~a~ Allthema~rcycles~G~tto~ c~e~n=~~r~o~r~a~t~th=e~d=oo~r·~~~~~~~-e_p~_e_m~~e_r~~~~-·~-·~~~~~~~~~
-

from among university press frescoes are filmed in detail, many publications throughout the nation. for the first time, and including those at the Upper and LowerGiotto film planned Church of San Francesco, Assisi, and the Scrovegni family Arena
"Giotto and the Pre-
Chapel in Padua. 
Renaissance" at the Notre Dame 
The "Museum Without Walls" 
Engineering Auditorium on 
film series is co-sponsored by the
Monday, Sept. 25th at 8 and 10 p.m. 
South Bend Art Center and the
is a sensitive new look at the old 
Notre Dame Cultural Arts Com­
master, Giotto, an artist 
mJsswn. Tickets may be pur­
recognized in his lifetime as the 
chased at the South Bend Art 
precursor to the greatest 
Center or at the door.
Florentint:!s from Masaccio to 
Michelangelo. Art films continue 
Narrated by Richard Basehart, 
the 55-minute color film was The 55-minute color film "Crete 
produced for the new series of and Mycenae," to be screened 
eleven films on art, "Museum Monday, September 25th at the 
Without Walls," and will be Notre Dame Engineering 
screened with a film on the ancient Auditorium brings to viewers a 
art and cultures of Crete and first-time look at the arts and 
Mycenae. palaces on the island of Crete, the 
The hieratic mood of Giotto's first fully developed European
predecessors is contrasted with his culture. 
great innovations in sensitivity and From the Early Bronze Age
human involvement. He created (3000 B.C.) to its sudden 
Good Afternoon 

SHULA ·s 
Has a TGIF Party 
EVERY FRIDAY 
Celebrate Early for N D's Win Over Nerthwestern Do it With Two Great Bands, Open Bar, Dancing, Whatever 
Start the Weekend Off Right 

2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 Phone 683-4350 
Last week it was a report that is that the future of McGovern's Gallup was about to release a new campaign depends almost entirely poll showing McGovern 40 points on the reports of Gallup, Harris, behind President Nixon. Daniel Yankelovich and a few 
Another ~n~ew~r~um~o~r~s~r~e~a~d~t~ha~t:....__..:::o=th:..::e:.:..r2po:=ll.::.:st:.:e:..:rs:..:·______
1 

FREE CONCERT 
COUNTRY· FOLK· BLUES 
SCUM OF TE EARTH 
John Kuhn & Ducks On The Run Bob Ewan & Lou McKenzie Denny Lopez & Mike Powers John McKenzie 
Sponsored by the Social Commission 
STUDENT CENTER (BALLROOM)F •d N • 
rl ay lte S t b 22 SP M to Midnight 


I 
E everything you always wanted to know about 
BeAwar.e 
Get your own subscription to TIME at special student rates. At the bookstore or through the TIME representative on campus. 
BRIAN KELLY 283-8323 
117 Pangborn 

Moscow--The United States and the Soviet Union agreed Thursday to undertake 30 joint projects on environmental protection for the cities, farms rivers lakes and air of both countries. The announcement was made 'at the ~nd of three-day meeting in Moscow of the new Joint Committee on Cooperation in the Field of Environmental Protection. 
London--Britain ordered the end of the controversial policy of in­terning suspected terrorists in Northern Ireland without trial. William Whitelaw the British administrator in Nortthern Ireland, announced in London that a tribunal would be established to consider cases of suspected bombers and gunmen with a view to their release or 
imprisonment for specific sentence. Under internment, suspects are held indefinitely. 
warld 
Saigon--For the first time since ~arch, 19~5, a week ~as passed without American combat deaths m Indochma, the Umted States Command in Saigon reported yesterday. According to American
briefs 
figures for the week of Sept. _10 to 16, no Ameri~an deaths r~sulted from hostile action, although ftve deaths were attnbuted to acctdental or natural causes. 
Washington--Sen. George McG?vern, ca_mp~igning in New York, told the leaders of 25 national Jewtsh orgamzabons that he would vote in favor of a plan to withhold "most favored nation" trading stat_us 
(cl 1!172 New York Times from the Soviet Union until it abolished its "slave tax" .on Sovtet Jewish emigrants and ceased its "arming of Arab terrorts~s." He addressed about 200 Jewish leaders at the Conference of Prestdents of of major American Jewish organizations. 
Nashville--Vice President Agnew labeled as "inaccurate" a report that the White House in an attempt to avoid embarrassing him, or­dered a fourth officia'I investigation of American wheat sales to the Soviet Union. 
President's Convocation 
Henry outlines dialogue 
Before his speech, Henry To the over 200 students
by Beth Wille 
commented that the program assembled, Dr. Henry also spoke
Dr. Edward L. Henry, new St. -would give the student body a of the new board recently set up
Mary's president,spoke on chance to "get a look at their new consisting of 40 members, in­
progressive change and the President," and give him an op­cluding both students and faculty
planning for this change at the first portunity to explain his idea of representatives. He viewed this as 
President's Convocation of the "The Grand Dialogue." a rare and decidedly progressive 
year in O'Laughlin Auditorium After Jean Seymour, student step forward in the area of student 
yesterday evening. government president, introduced voice on college policy. 
the new President of three months, Greta And~::rson, after the 
0 'Shag displays Dr. Henry called upon the entire speech, felt that she perhaps spoke 
college community -students, for many seniors as she com­
Todd sculpture faculty, and administration -to mented on the convocation. 
join together in what he called a As President, he must at this 
The abstract sculpture of "planning process dialogue" to fi­point be optimistic on St. Mary's 
Michael Todd, a 1957 magna cum nd out "where St. Mary's is finding her identity separately as a 
laude graduate of the University of headed, what her goals will be, and women's college. But I hope as a 
Notre Dame, will be on display how she'll acheive these goals in senior that this doesn't lead to an 
through October in the the months to come." even further breakdown in the 
O'Shaughnessy Hall Art Gallery. Dr. Henry admitted that perhaps Notre Dame -St. Mary's com­
Todd is presently on the art faculty this was the first time a college munity feeling." 
of the University of California at President has quoted a newpaper Freshman Donna Drinan on the 
San Diego. instead of the other way around as other hand felt that while Dr. 
Two of the larger pieces, a he echoed the tone of yesterday's Henry said "nothing dramatic," he 
yellow enamelled steel piece en­Observer supplement on St. did "make good sense in his 
titled "Titus," and a Corten steel Mary's. evaluations of St. Mary's future." 
piece, "Tulip," are located on the Rational and restrained After Dr. Henry's speech, a 
lawn near the gallery. discourse were called for by the dinner was served in the dining 
Selected works from Notre President as he spoke of St. Mary's hall for those with meal tickets 
Dame's permanent collection changing role, and her seeking of acquired at the convocation. 
make up the major exhibit in the an identity as a women's college Those who had not attended and 
University Art Gallery at the that has a rich tradition in the field received the tickets there were not 
present time. This display will of womens rights'. admitted to dinner. 
continue through early November. 
on campus taday~  
7:00 and 9:30--movie, "cool hand luke," lyons  
den cinema, 75 cens  
7:30--lecture, john brademas, "educational legi­ 
slation from the congressional point of view,"  
carroll hall, st. mary's.  
7:00 and  10:00--movie,  "citizen  kane,"  badin  
vintage cinema, 75 cents  
8: 00--concert, shirley griffith, washington hall,  
$1.00  
8:00--meeting, duplicate bridge, university club  
8:00--roller derby, ace. $4, $3, $2  
8:00 and 10:00--movie, diary of a mad housewife,  
engineering auditorium, $1.00  
sat.  
1: 30--football,  notre  dame  vs.  northwestern,  
wndu-tv channel 16  
2:00 and 8:00--movie; "blue angel," engineering  
auditorium, $1.00  
7:00 and  10:00--movie,  "citizen  kane,"  badin  
vintage cinema, 75 cents  
7:30and 10:00--movie, "bullit," holy cross (notre  
dame) auditorium, 75 cents  
8:00  and  10:00--movie,  "diary  of  a  mad  
housewife," zagrans zinema west (flanner ba­ 
sement), $1.00  
sun. 2:00 and 8:00--movie, "blue angel," engineering auditorium, $1.00 2:30 football, badin vs. walsh, field next to university club  
7: 30--four  short  movies,  "glimpses  of  india,"  ~  
"himalayan heritage,"  carroll hall, st. mary's.  
1  

I 


Hesburgh starts 
new annual award 
honoring Niebuhr 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesbur~, 
C.S.C., University President of 
Notre Dame announced yesterday 
the establishment of a $250 
Reinhold Niebuhr Award at Notre 
Dame. 
The award would be made an­nually to a student, faculty member or administrator whose 'life or writings promoted or exemplified the lifelong theological and philosophical concerns of Reinhold Niebuhr, practicularly in the area of social 
justice in modern life. 
Father Hesburgh, who is 
chairman of the U. S. COM­
MISSION ON Civil Rights, made 
the announcement at ceremonies 
at Union Theological Seminary in ­
New York City at which he and 
Chancellor Willy Brandt of West 
Germany were the first recipients 
of Reinhold Niebuhr Awards 
sponsored by friends of the 
Protestant theologian and author. 
The awards carried $5,000 for 
each recipient, and Father 
Hesburgh said he would put his 
money into Notre Dame's en­
dowment to underwrite a cash 
award for the annual winner of the 
campus honor. 
LOW COS1­



r-PRINTINB 
WHILE UWAIT 
QTY 
LTR 
LGL 
25 
1.80 
2.10 
;so 
2.10 
2.40 
75 
2.40 
2.70 
100 
2.60 
3.05 
250 
4.10 
4.80 
500 
6.10 
7.20 
1M 
10.40 
12.20 



INSTANT 
copyo~o 
--ACitOSS rrtOM W S.IJT. -. 
305 W /EFFERSON BLVD. -,_Q fiiUI~ IISIOf IIDG ­
234·0533. 
The Observer is published dail~ 
during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of  II  
the University of Notre Dame and  
St. Mary's College.  Subscriptions  
may .be  purchased  for  $8  per  
semester from The Observer, Box  
Q,  Notre Dame,  Indiana  46556.  
Second class postage paid, Notre  
Dame, ·Ind. 46556.  

ZAG RAN'S 
ZINEMA WEST 
Friday, Sept 22 
Engineering Aud. 8& 10 
,......................... 
Saturday, Sept. 23 "America" in Flenner Hall 8& 10 
Admission only $1.00 
ACADEMY AWARD NOMINATION FOR 
BEST ACTRESS 
CARRIE  NODGRESS  
FOR HER STARRING PERFORMANCE IN "DIARY OF A MAD HOUSEWIFE"  Does her anger at a domineering husband justify a wife's taking a lover?  
This wife was driven to find out!  

diary of a mad housewife 
a frank perry film """"" 
richard benjamin frank langella Carrl·e snodgress 
SC<eenp\aybyeleanor perry 
, 11om Ihe novel by sue kaufman produced and d.recled by Irank perry· A UNIVERSAL PICTURE TECHNICOLOR• ~ """":;~;.:,;..-.:;:..:._-~ 
Friday, September 22, 1972
the observer 
Thieu rejects coalition proposal 
LET'S GET PERSONAL ABOUT 
IT! 

by Craig R. Whitney 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Saigon. South Vietnam, Sept. 21­President Nguyen Van Thieu rejected the Sept. 11 Communist proposal for a three-part coalition government in Vietnam last night and said "any political settlement in South Vietnam should be <tetermmed by the South Viet­namese people themselves without foreign interference." 
Thieu was believed to have had the French government's support of the latest Communist proposal, 
Balloting today 
which is essentially a restatement of its earlier ones, in mind. "We seriously warn the colonialists against interfering with the in­ternal affairs of South Vietnam and against lending a hand to the Communists either by word or by deed," he said. 
exiled third force 
Thieu's speech was made last night in Hue and has been rebroadcast several times over the national radio since then. 
The President said that "the people and army of South Vietnam 
Walsh elections set 
by Marty Miller Observer Staff Reporter 
Today's Walsh hall government elections will feature both the traditional president-vice president choices and a new style of hall government in the form of an executive board. The ballots will be casted today from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. in the rector's office. 
Arabs plan block of UN discussion 
(r) 1!172 Nf'w York Times 
llnitf'd Nations. N. Y.--The Arab bloc, with the support of a group of African nations, tonight mounted an effort to defer any discussion of the terrorism issue for this session of the General Assembly. 
Radha K. Ramphul of Mauritius, after consulting with other m­embers of the African bloc, for­mally proposed in the general committee that the issues 
proposed  for  discussion  by  
Secretary  General  Waldheim  be  
deferred.  

Jamil M. Baroody of Saudi Arabia said that if the terrorism issue item was referred directly to the legal committee of the General Assembly, as proposed by Waldhe­im, the committee "would become a platform of vilification, of acrimony and of bitterness," with members of the committee "marshalling those cases that suit any one state to say how horrible the perpetrators are." 
Baroody said that the entire question should be sent to an ex­officio committee to initiate a study of the various forms of violence and that this committee should report to the next session of the General Assembly. 

Life! 
Judi Offerle, a junior Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering major is running on a single ticket for president. Miss Offerle's platform calls for the appointment of commissioners for various hall activities. She feels that the decentralization of a democratic type of government is necessary. 
Candy Kelly, hall president hopeful, has selected Marianne O'Connor as her vice-presidential running mate. Miss Kelly, a junior majoring in Government has set specified duties for both herself and Miss O'Connor. As president, Miss Kelly would vote on the Hall President's Council and act as official representative of the hall, while Miss O'Connor would take charge of the internal affairs of the hall. Their platform also allows for special committees for hall activities. 
An executive board consisting of Sue Anderson, Peggy Pollara, Kathy Cahill and Terry Skeehan will enter the race in the hopes of emphasizing a democratic plat­form rather than a personality competition. If elected, the board proposes that the hall council, composed of eight section leaders . will vote for the chairman of the board. All four girls would attend the Hall President's Council but only the chairman would vote. 
Mary Ann Grabavoy, Lynn Larkin, and Pamela Strode are competing for the secretary position. Chris Burger, Reenie Devitt, Sue Darin and Teree Howe are running for treasurer. 


Art Auction 
century artists: Picasso Dali Miro, Calder Chagall Friedlaender Searle Rouault Vasa rely and others.  
THIS SAT., SEPT. 23rd! RAMADA INN 52890 U.S. 31N AUCTION: 8:30P.M. EXHIBITION: 7:0Q-8:30P.M. All New 'Show -Free Ad­mission  
Free Book-Prints & Print­making Given Free to Each Buyer Presented by Meridian Gallery of Indianapolis  

see clearly the crafty plot of the Communists, the colonialists and their lackeys, a plot that is being applauded by some opportunistic elements who are living in exile and calling themselves a third force." 
The Sept. 11 proposal called for elements of a provisional tripartite government to be drawn from the Thieu administration, the Com­munist side, and from "other political forces in South Vietnam, including those who, for political reasons, have to live abroad." 
troop withdrawal 

515 tanks and armored vehicles. 
With the recapture of Quangtri 
city last weekend, Thieu said, the 
offensive had been doomed to 
failure. "If the Communists do not 
pull their troops back to North 
Vietnam, they wUI be killed to the 
last. man," he said. 

dispute over Saigon 
Thieu also told newsmen during a visit to the Quangtri front Wednesday that he did not believe there was a military threat to Saigon any more. Most American and Vietnamese military sources in Saigon dispute this view, and are expecting a step-up in military between now and the November elections in the United States. 
additional blows 
THE DEVIL 
MADE ME 
D~~IT 
.-!!_ r; 
• I 
T ANYTHING-
Personalized 


CUSTOM SHIRTS 
WHITE T-SHIRTS -COLOR TRIM T-SHIRTS-HEATHER T-SHIRTS -COLORED T­SHIRTS-FOOTBALL JER­SEYS-TANK TOPS ... 
OVER 70 

NOVELTY 
DESIGNS 

SPECIAL DISCOUNTS TO ORGANIZATIONS FOR GROUP SALES 
OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK 234-0388 
'· 
.·. 

1618 MISHAWAKA AVE. ACROSS FROM ADAMS 
Goldrick explains quota decisions 
L 
by Pete McHugh Observer Staff Reporter 
A quota for next year's freshman class, including a quota for women, will be determined i­ndependent of a decision ~o convert another dorm into a female residence hall, according to Dr. John Goldrick, admissions director. 
Goldrick said the University Quota Committee has not met this year. The committee will deter­mine the size of next year's class and the number of women to be admitted. 
However, the body will not make any decision regarding the conversion of utilization of dor­mitories, Goldrick added. Residence hall decisions and ­freshman quotas will be made 
independently, according to the director. 
Goldrick: The Quota Committee 
will have no connection with the 
decision of the next female dorm. 
Holy Cross-St. Ed's co-op theatre opens 
by Anthony Abowd 
In an unusual cooperative effort, two halls, Holy Cross <ND> and St. Eds, have joined forced to run the Lakeside Theatre, a new theatre in 

Goldrick added that the quota decision might be made before or after any decision to create another female dorm. He could not say what would be the male to female ratio in next fall's fresh­man class. 
There have been no announced changes in last year's committee membership. It included Goldrick; Richard Sullivan, as­sistant registrar; Fr. James Riehle, dean of students and student housing director; Leo Corbaci, dean of administration; Bro. Kiernan Ryan, vice president for business affairs; Dr. Emil T. Hoffman, dean of freshman year studies; and Daniel Osberger, assistant dean of administration. 
Four films shown 
Four short films (85 minutes in all) dealing with India and Indian culture will be shown Sunday night at 7:30 in Carroll Hall auditorium, Saint Mary's. 
"Land of Bengal," a color documentary, will focus on the people and landscape of Bengal and the surrounding area. "Glimpses of India" will provide an overview of the entire culture, while ''Portrait of a City" will explore in detail the many fac~t.s of one of India's largest cities, Calcutta. 
Further information may be obtained by contacting Dr. Cyriac Pullapully at 4928, or Sister Kathy Reichert at 4069. Dr. Pullapully, a member of the Saint Mary's history department, is a native of India. 

Freshman are admitted if the credentials of leadership, and have Admissions office believes they worked to develop their talents th­can handle the academic stress of rough extracurricular activities higher education, and possess good and work. 
'!·In the heart 
1of downtown :South Bend 

GOOD FOOD 
AT M 
·Steaks ·Chops -.'Chicken ·Sea Food 
.. . ..here -ple9sant 
surroundings 
.CLOSED



~ARtrs 
MONDAYS 
Daily & Sunday
: ~':;:~ .% \· 11 am 
till 9 pm:~ .~/L=-J ;/\.J*-Saturday 
11 am till. 10 pm\ 105 WEST COLFAI AVE., 5011711 BEICD 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. Carl Ebey, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Giles Pater 
12: 15 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. "Evening Prayers" vespers at 4:30 p.m. Sunday Confessions: Before weekday masses from 7:00 to 7:30p.m. · J 
Monday through Saturday 


Holy Cross auditorium. 
"There are certain advantages to having two halls run the theatre," says RichGolden,one of the organizers. "This splits the responsibility and creates an example of the ability of two halls to work together." 
Lakeside Theatre is believed to be the first cooperative venture of this type on campus. Theatres in the past have been operated by individuals or the Student Union. Few halls have established theatres together or cooperated in a business enterprise. 
"I don't know if two halls have gotten together in a business venture before. Perhaps this will be an incentive for other halls to cooperate with each other," says Golden. 
The two halls will split the costs and profits from this venture. Lakeside Theatre received an initial subsidy from both halls for the first movie, "Bullit," which will be shown Saturday night. 
"We're looking for most of our support from Holy Cross and St. Ed's,"says Golden. "But with low admission prices, good movies and concessions we hope to attract many other people." 
The Holy Cross auditorium in the 
basement of Holy Cross will hold 
about 200 people. Soft drinks and 
popcorn will be available on movie 
nights. 
Rick Golden, who lives in Holy 
Cross, and Mark Humphrey, St. 
Ed's social commissioner con­
ceived the idea of this joint ven­
ture. 
"We had the movie catalogues 
Steve McQueen stars in Bullit, first production of the Holy Cross-St. Ed's coalition theatre, The Lakeside Theatre. 
and they had a room," explains Humphrey. Holy Cross Hall President Fred Baranowski and ­Greg Thomas, St. Ed's president, did the work necessary to get university permission to operate the theatre. 
Goldenand Humphrey and the presidents of Holy Cross and St. Ed's hope this effort will instill some spirit in their halls. 
"St. Ed's has been pretty inactive in the past," says Hum­phrey. "Now the hall is behind the project." 
"We want to make Holy Cross not just the hall between the lakes. We want to make it a center of 
activity." says Golden. 
SMC regents on WNDU Sunday 
Dr. Edward Henry, St. Mary's president, and Sister Katherine Francis Ford, new chairman of the Board of Regents, will be in­terviewed Sunday on WNDU-tv's Chronicle from 5:00-5:30. 
The program will be broadcast locally on channel 16. 
"Come in and get acquainted" 
l mile No. of 
241 us 31
•=n.. -, ­
Notre Dame 272-7510
1'\!ndoz.a:s 
s........ .J 
__.. ­GUITARS 
Imported from Spain for the ' · discriminating buyer others S19.95 and up for beginner$ 
G U IT~ R M \1 S·a C--S·y R I N G S--ACCESSORIES 
. . 
RECORD$ Latest LP's and <45's-all discount priced 
PHONOS "-ve your needle checked FREE 
TANS-qSSETTES 
i
FIUA ~Fifii$HING 
•·· 
THERE ARE STILL MANY SEATS AVAILABLE 
FOR THE M.S.U. BUS TRIP, OCT. 7 PRICE IS $18 FOR BUS AND FOOTBALL TICKET. 
BUS LEAVES 8:00a.m. FROM CONT. EDUC. CENTER., REMAINING TIX ON SALE FRIDAY, (TODAY) 
3:00 p.m. at AT STUDENT UNION OFFICE 
Design Your Own 
Personalized Shirt 
B 
from Our Selection 
0 

D 
.K 


5 
All types of t-shirts 
and jerseys. Many 
T 
colors to pick from. Your choice of numbers, 


0 
letters, N. D. Emblems 
and designs. We print 
R 
almost anything. See 
our large selection. 
E 
Open Mon.-Sat. 
9:00 am to 5:00 pm 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Dan Thornton Editor in-chief Business Manager John Abowd 
News: 283-171 S Editorial: 283-8661 Joe ButlerDon RuaneBusiness: 283-7471 Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Friday, September 22, 1972 
Something For Everybody 
Issues we're waiting for somebody to bring up again so the whole first semester won't be wasted trying to overcome summer inertia and waiting for football season to end: 
--THE 18 YEAR OLD MAJORITY IN INDIANA--Gov. Whitcomb vetoed the last bill the Indiana legislature passed on the subject becuase it legalized the sale and consumption of alcohol by 18 year olds. Some of the universities in Indiana (including Notre Dame) are already lobbying in Indianapolis for a new law with the same provision. Politica I soothsayers predict that the inevitable change in the statehouse (Whitcomb cannot succeed himself) will bring a more favorable attitude toward the subject. 6,000 letters to Matt Welsh and Otis Bowen (democratic and republican gubernatorial candidates) would be helpful icing on the cake. 
--THE FACULTY MANUAL REVISION-­Severa I versions of a revised Faculty Manual will be placed before the Academic Council. One version is not yet public. The other is the result of an eight man committee of the Faculty Senate. The later was released in April and vigorously discussed at an open meeting of the senate. The manual is bound to be controversial and no ones best interests will be served if ex­tensive public discussion does not preceed the Academic Council's final action. 
··IHSTRIBtJTION OF THE STUDENT GOVERNMENT FtJNDS--September 29 is the deadline for requests but right now no formal body exists to allocate the fund. Unless the senate is recon­vened (not a very hopeful prospect) or the new constitution is approved, the money will sit around collecting dust all year. That would put Student Union in a pretty awkward position, to say the least. 
--OPEN THE STtJDENT CENTER 24 HOtJRS A DAY·-Many people have 
raised this suggestion. The formal requirements should be minimal since a portion of the building is already open 24 hours a day. There is no reason why groups meeting in the late evening or 
daanesbury 
students looking for a place to study all 
night should be locked out of LaFortune 
at midnight. In addition, the proposals 
to renovate the facility should be taken 
out of the woodwork and dusted off. 
Talk has been plenty cheap on the 
whole subject but two things are cer­
tain: 1) it is extremely unrealistic to 
expect that money can be found for a 
new center and 2) there is a tremen­
dous amount of poorly utilized space in 
th{' present building. The people who 
stopped by LaFortune on activities 
night discovered quite a few hidden 
niches that are worth opening up--all 

night. --OPEN THE SENIOR BAR FIVE 
NIGHTS A WEEK--Perhaps this is a 
minor suggestion unless you happen to 
be a senior and happen to dislike zoos, 
which is exactly what the bar has been 
with so many people trying to get in on 

Wednesday,  Friday  and  Saturday  
nights.  
--SELECT  THE  STUDENT  

REPRESENTATIVES FOR THE ACADEMIC COUNCIL--Only the students in the College of Arts and Letters have begun the selection process. It might not be a bad idea to revise the present system of one repre­sentative per college. Regardless, the Academic Council is where the action will be this semester (especially during the Faculty Manual debates). Good, well-researched student input is cri­tica I so the representatives will need some time before the first session to get organized. 

--PROCUREMENT OF A CHICAGO TICKETRON OUTLET FOR THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE-­This one is a little far-fetched but if it's possible many new social and cultural opportunities will be available to Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. Ad­vertising in the South Bend area should produce enough business to justify any expense involved. 
That's a little something for everybody. Hopefully, it's not the last word that will be heard about some of the ideas. Certai­nly, it's not the last time the major issues will be raised. 
John Abowd 

Mene!Tekel Parsin 
Coed Dorms and Mars 

tam barnhaldt 
There is a theory circulating among the more influential students on this campus, that the highest form of human endeavor is student politics. This group also holds as Absolute Certainty, that the essence of student politics is issues. The claim of the Omniscient Few is that student politics without issues is at best something bad called "Barkettism ·• and at worst, is something diabolical called "Ker­stenism". 
Coming back to Notre Dame this fall, the Lords of Wisdom were shocked to find a famine of issues. Notre Dame had finally admitted women at a pace that was placating the vast majority of students. No strike, no pornography conference, not even a menacing letter from Stepan. Great Caesar's Ghost! There must be issues! 
And so there was. For the Wise Men got together and put their collected genius to work in search of the Holy Issue. With great prudence, they rejected the food, security, and freshmen crowding. Oh. these are always good sideshows but they never really get the student body stirred up and never will. And an Issue, worthy of the title, must motivate large numbers of students. 
With equal sagacity, the Magi rejected the merger. If ND students were apathetic about it last year, what would they be this year? 
Drinking and parietals were no longer an issue, tho a few of the less Omniscient Sages held hope that the Trustees might again make an issue out of it. Likewise academic reform continues to possess a great deal of validity, but it takes less than beatific vision to see that there are a great deal of students who couldn't care leass about academic improvement. 
The less Infinitely Patient of the Masters of Truth began to despair. Could it be that there were no issues? Was life without ultimate meaning? Is Man absurd? 
At this Supreme Nadir <not Ralph), there appeared a star on the Horizon. To dream the impossible dream, etc. The Magi quickly trayelled to where the star was headed. There in a manger, they found an mfant Issue. God had answered their prayers by sending them a Saving Issue, which would redeem Student Government. And every knee shall bend at the name: 
Coresidential Dorms. 

And in thus manner, the Most Wise Visiers came to reveal to the Rabble, that there is an Issue among us. And the Issue is good. So for the last week, we have heard about coresidential dorms three million times. Coresidential dorms are the big issue, student government must be involved more than it is, because we NEED Poed halls. 
Coed dorms, we are told are emminently possible "if only every student got concerned". If only a coin would flip heads six thousand­times in a row, I would be a rich man. Instead of indulging the useful of "Wouldn't it be groovy if..." or "If only", I am going to indulge in a little nasty speculation by defending the following proposition: 
Men will walk on Mars before women and men share a dorm at Notre Dame. 
The explanation for how coed will come into being, is very simple: "If we can get women on campus, we can get them into our halls -if only, everybody would get INVOLVED!" 
To counter this argument, I will list several fact<> that suggest an as­symmetry between the issues of university coeducation and coed halls. 
F_irs~. is the lack of solidarity in student opinion. A very large maJority of Notre Dame students felt that coeducation was not only desirable but necessary. The consensus opinion about coed halls is that they are dtsirable, but not necessary ..Furthermore, there is a large number of students who actually do not like the idea of a coresidential hall. In the Student Assembly of 1971, the coed proposal was rassed overwhelmingly <and most of the no votes were over a side issue) while the experimental college proposal was passed only for those relatively few males living in the same hall. Most ND males . would readily prefer 250 women in Walsh to 200 women in a coed Flanner. 
Third, is the fact that the Alumni are as staunchly opposed to coed halls as the students are ',\'eakly in favor. A sudden drop in Alumni funds resulting from a coed hall is in itself enough to stop the formati­on of such a dorm. Alumni opposition to the admission of women, on the other hand, was comparatively small. 
Fourth, is that the Trustees won't be converted to the desirability of coed halls. the way they were converted to the desirability of coeducation in general. Surveys taken by the Aministration have for . years shown that a large number of gifted students were turning away from Notre Dame because it wasn't coeducational. It is unlikely that this will be the case with coed halls; again students don't feel strongly enough about it to be rejecting schools over the issue. Furthermore, the Trustees liked the idea of tapping high quality women and admit­ting less <and therefore more select) male students. Coed halls would not have a similar argument in its favor. 
These are only 4 of the most basic reasons why the obstacles to coed halls are much more severe than they appear at first. But then Our All-Seeing Soothsayers don't care about feasibility; all they want is an Issue. 
by IJ•rry trud.au 

I..IIIIIIIIIUIIIHIIIIIRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
~----------~~~~ 

115 CINJC/.J.5, I STIU­/)0#'1 tJN/lcRSIR!VO JtJHY y{)() UFT YOUR HU.58ANO. !11/JN''r you HAVe 11j NICE HOH~ 11#0 
i-OI/IN'6 Cfllt..OREN?. 

the issue staff: 
Night Editor: Joe Abell Ass't Night Editor: Marlene Zloza Layout: Bill Brink, Maria Gallagher Day Editor: Bill Sohn Typists: Diane Chermside, Bob Barringer, 
Dave Rust, Rich Meloy, Dennis Anastasoff Night Controller: Joe "Scream in'" Wilkowski 


the observer 
7 
concerts 72: a look to the future 
rich donovan 
Now that the fall concert schedule is set, The Guess Who is the Canadian band Nash. and Young; the Byrds; and the F­and the Allman Brothers are true. I was init might be interesting to examine the at­which is famous for its rock and roll sound. lying Burrito Brothers, Manassas rocks touch with the management of the Moodytractions that will be offered in the context "These Eyes", "Laughin"', "Undun", "No with the best of them. The proficiency with Blues from April through July. Their initial of current popular music. Chicago, which they transcend the lines between reaction to a Notre Dame show was fav­Stephen Stills -Manassas, the Guess Who, folk, blues, and country music is a joy to orable, hut when a larger arena becameand Yes represent the top bands in three hear. 
available in Minneapolis, they opted forcountries--the United States, Canada, and Yes will return to the U.S.A. in November more money. The Allman Brothers wereEngland, respectively. Each one is a cons­for a tour that will include Notre Dame. 
verbally committed ~o appear at N.D. untilistent innovator in its field. All are This English band has a totally different late July when they cancelled their fall tourespecially well known for their live per­sound which blends classical and jazz to cut another album. Various promotersformances. styles with rock in a most successful and schools alike lost out on that one. TheChicago is probably the hardest working manner. Though their early albums are Grateful Dead might have come, but group in the world. They are on the road overlooked gems, "The Yes Album" wanted to do a show in Atlanta on the night literally every day that they are not ·1.,':" :"t became a big seller and was followed by the 
\~ before the date in question and could not m­
recording. With the recent rearrangement . I equally popular "Fragile" which includes ove their equipment that fast. Most otherof Blood, Sweat, and Tears and the release the hit single "Roundabout." These five big acts either were not touring during theof their fifth album. Chicago assumed an masterful musicians are also excellent
Time", "American Woman", and " No 
fall or wanted to play bigger halls.
unchallenged position as the king of "brass­
Sugar Tonight" are the hits that trace the Obvious preferences for next semesterrock." The group moves effortlessly from 
acts history up to their latest album "Live include Neil Young, the Who. the Beach B­ballads to big-band sound in their two and a 
at the Paramount." Keyboard player oys. Grateful Dead, Carole King, Emerson­half hour performance and will well 
Burton Cummings is responsible for many Lake-Palmer. Leon Russell, Robertadeserve the overflow crowd that awaits 
of the group's songs. He recently said of the Flack. and Traffic. Feel free to make yourthem in the A.C.C. 
group: " ... the band is getting very, very preferences known to the Student Union C­tight. I know that we already feel a lot oncert Coordinator at 7489. better about playing together than we ever Smaller concerts in Stepan Center, did before." Everyone who sees the Guess ()'Laughlin Auditorium, and Washington Who live comes away feeling excited and Hall will be arranged as dates and acts pleased to have gone. This will be the night become available. These halls are difficult to put on your blue suede dancing shoes! to book because one cannot spend much Perhaps the finest concert I have seen money on the entertainment if the show is
Steven Stills Oct. 27 

this past year was in the Arie Crown showmen, as those in attendance at the to break even. There are many fine 
Theatre in Chicago last spring. Stephen concert will discover. A new Yes album,Stills played for three hours with his new "Close to the Edge," will be released soon.
band Manassas and they really put out ­Those are the acts who will be at the some fine music. Brimming with talent A.C'.C this fall, but what about those whofrom Buffalo Springfield; Crosby, Stills, won't? The rumors about the Moody Blues 


Recardinrjs 
never a dull moment: 

Y<"s Nov. 18 
mus1c1ans around for reasonable prices, hut these people are known only to those on campus who are very much into con­temporary music. It seems that fewjGSeph abell students are willing to risk their money on 
.an act t.hey haven't heard before. Stay tuned to the Observer and WSND for all future concert and ticket in­Y'know, l've often wondered if rock 
formation ... 

a lament of rock 

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
groups or stars have ever wanted their music to go down in history as "a great accomplishment." Sure, we have our 
Never A Dull Moment
"elassics" of rock 'n' roll, our "classics" of acid rock. and so on, but obviously, they 

theater
Rod Stewart
can't quite compare to the works of Beethoven. Mozart and all that gang. 
Mercury SRM 1 646
Thev can't even compare to modern great popt1lar composers like Gershwin, Bern­
$5.98 list franklin devine
stein. Cohan. etc. Yet the last named composers will continue to be played in the coming Director Charles Ballinger bas settled on 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
decades. whereas most of the music that a cast for the ND-Smc Theatre's season the current young generation enjoys will premier, James Goldman's Tht' Lion In
the Moody Blues or the intricate in­
fade out and finally disappear in a dull Wintt·•·. The pseudo-historical comedy is set
teraction of Yes. And what's bad about
clash of untuned electric guitars. to open October 6th in St. Mary's O'Laughlin 
that is that we are very quickly becoming 
And that's really a shame; or at least I A..ditorium.
that next generation up.
think so at this point in my life. I like to th­Tht• Uon In Winlt'r revolves around the
Stewart's music does serve a purpose,
ink that the music of groups like Chicago, choice of a successor for the aging King
though. It's fun to listen to (if you don't
Yes. and the Moody Blues will endure, but Henry II of England. ND SMC Theatre
overdo it. like Top 40 stations like to do so
I get the impression that their only endu­veteran, Mark Swiney has been cast in the
well), and you can dance to it very easily. 
rance will be through loyalty to record at least one has the exact same format, title role. Henry's ambitious sons, Richard,
If you need a classification for it, I suppose 
collection. In fact, I think that's all the right down to the short acoustic guitar Geoffrey, and John will be portrayed by AI
the term "rock 'n' roll" will do, even ­
endurance any current rock music will intro. Maggi May was a nice little song, Fierro, Mark Genero and Cliff Fetters.
though it's a little different from the music 
have. whether it is now considered "great but capitalizing on it so much rather Director Ballinger has named Susan Sen­
of the Fifties. "Rockin"'bands seem to be
and innovative" or "absurdly trite." detracts from it and Stewart. dleback to play Henry's estranged wife,
making a comeback recently, as witness
And that's what disappoints me when it Despite this, You Wear It Well, Maggie's Eleanor of Aquitaine.
the sudden popularity of the J. Geils Band, 
comes to Rod Stewart. This guy is consi­carbon copy, is a fairly good tune, J1mi Long imprisoned after an abortive at­
Humble Pie, and Faces. That's all okay, I
dered a superstar in every sense of the Hendrix' Angel is effectively done, and tempt to overthrow her husband, Eleanor is 
guess, though generally I can't get into
word. Nearly anything he releases as a Tune Blue rocks pretty well (in spite of the allowed to return to her family only during 
these kinds of bands.
single will hit the top of the Top 40 in no unnecessary addition of a motocycle trac­the Christmas season. While living at the
Stewart's just a bit different from these
time, and yet his albums remain a staple k). The only main fault is that I've heard it palace Eleanor suffers the indignity of
others, however. Where the others con·
of more serious minded rock fans. all before, and sometimes better done, on Henry's flaunting of his French mistress,
centrate on a loud, jamming-type style,
Here is where the conflict lies. He's his previous album. Alais played by Susan Maher.
Stewart tends to he a little softer. He I do like this album. It doesn't live up to The verbal brickbats hurled betweenconsidered so great, yet his music isn't the keeps the hard rock 'n' roll beat, but tones 
kind that'll last more than last months' its title all the time, but I like it. It's a fun Henry and Eleanor are the core of the Play's
down the melodic line to something a little
Billboard survey. thing to listen to. It stretches out the comedy, according to the ND-SMC
less ear-wracking. That's great; too bad
I know the first thing that comes>to your liveliness of Every Picture to last the w­Theatre's public relations director, Carol
he's not more original with his songs. 
hole party without repeating anything. It Riordan.

mind at this point: that his music isn't As for Never a Dull Moment (Yes, I'm fascinates with the incredibly rusty voice
meant to last; that it's the kind of popular Ballinger has filled out his cast with Chris 
really going to mention the album in its
music that's only meant to be catchy for a of Stewart. But the one thing I don't like Ceraso as Henry's foil, Philip of France, the 
own review J, the best I can say about it is­about it is that I probably won't like it a young
short while, to dance to for a short while, dashing king of England's major
that it's a remake of Every Picture Tells a
until something else catchy comes along. year from now (actually, it won't be a rival. 
Story, with special emphasis on the song dislike of the record, more like a great a­Tht' Uon In Winter will mark the debut ofThat's true. That's also not my point. 
"Maggie May:• Of its nine song, five have. 
pathy toward it).

Rod Stewart's music, while obviously a nt•w member or the faculty or the
almost the same beat as Maggie did, and Five years after its debut, the Moody
not great in its own accord, serves to point 
l>t•partmenl of Speech and Drama, Ms. up the ineffectual lasting power of all rock Blues' Days of Future Past is still going st­Faith Adams. Ms. Adams will serve as 
ron even itJ;

music. His music is almost a caricature of <they've re-released four costumt• dt~signer for the theatre. 
years later, Chicago I is still selling well; 

modern rock music, and points out its Richard Bergman has returned to the faults and its triviality when compared to and nearly ten years later, Beatles albums Speech and Drama faculty this season as the 
are still listed to almost with reverence. In

more serious compositions like Berstein's theatre's technical director. Mr. Bergman Mass. And that's definitely not good. twenty more years, all of these will has designed both set and lighting for the 
probably be forgotten in the great mass of medieval comedy.
What to do about it: not a whole hell of a lot. Rod's gonna keep on making his -The theatre is currently taking reser­
plastic released on the P:tblic. But by then, 
..

music, and as long as it remains catchy, Rod Stewart will have beaten them all into vations for The Lion In Winter in addition to 
obscurity by an easy fifteen years. That he

fans will keep on buying it. And the next season tickets which are still on sale. 
will beat them is symbolic of all their

generation ahead of us will hear it and Upcoming productions this year include 
demise. That he will do it so much sooner Summer and Smoke, After the Rain, Theonce again denounce all rock music as b­is disheartening, for all it does is remind us Magic Flute, and You're A Good Man,eing loud and raunchy, without ever 
that they all will eventually go.

listening to the swooping orchestration of Charlie Brown in addition to The Lion In 
Winter. 

Guess Who Oct. 14 


--·-·-­
--------------------~--------------------~ 

the observer Friday, September 22, 1972
8 
shirley griffith and the indiana blues 

.. 
I I I l I I I 
l_ 
Willie Dixon and his Chicago Blues All­Chicago Blues? Sure. Delta Blues? Of Stars, Mighty J9e Yound with Koko Ta~lor,course. Indiana Blues? Yes! Not all the plus possible return performances by Ltttlemigratory routes led to Chica~o; some went Brother Montgomery, Sunnyland Slim,to St. Louis, others to Detrmt, and a few Hound Dog Taylor, J. B. Hutto, and Jimmy even stopped in Indiana. ScraQPer Bla~k­Rogers. These combined with an emphasiswell and Leroy Carr Guitar Pete Franklm, on country blues and small city groupsJ. T. Adams, Arthur 'Montana: !aylor, 

promise a thorough exposure to the gamutJesse Crump, and Shirley G~tfftth .an 

of Blues to the steady attendant. All theworked -are still working in Indtanapohs. 

Blues Series needs to work is for students,Indiana was also a place to come to record. 

friends, anyone curious or intere~ted inThe early race record labels 'Champion' Blues, to take advantage of the situatiOn and and 'Gennet' had studios in Richmond, "Stop, Look, and Listen."

while one could record for 'Vocalion' in Indianapolis. And, in a recent interview (LIVING HLlJES. No. !ll Guitar Pete F­SELECT DISCOGRAPHY OF JACKSONranklin stated that, in his own opini~n, "It BLllES seems like most people interested m the music take a jet and fly right over In­The Famous 1921! Tommy Johnson -Ishmandianapolis. They act like its not there. Good Bracey Sessionmusicians walking up and down the streets Roots RL-330with holes in their shoes. I know that there are more good musicians for the size of the Jackson Blues, 1!121!-l!l:lX Yazoo L-1007place than you would ever find in Chica~o." 
-
22 i1 I Jd,, illlMBFtw~ 

riffith is a representative of a style of music that has in its past such famous Bluesmen as Tommy Johnson, Ishman Cracey (who later forsook blues to become a preacher), and the Mississippi Sheiks. And the in-
That may be a bit overstated, but on Fnday, September 22nd we all. have ~ ~han~e to judge for ourselves--Shtrley Gnfftth wtll be at Notre Dame. Many people who went to Midwt•st Blues last year probably don't remember Shirley Griffith because he was never formally introduced! Things were all set up and Saturday night's seg!llent .was about to start: Shirley was to ktck thmgs off so I asked him to go out, set his guitar up and generally approve conditions so I could introduce him. Shirley sat down, hooked up his guitar, and started to tune up; the cr~wd started applauding, so Shirley kept J?laymg. After a devastation performance Shtrley got up and left the stage. Finis. And everyone asked "Who was that?" "Shirley Gr_iffith." 
"You mean he's not a she?" 
So, in place of a lost introduction a ;year ago, there follows a brief sketch of Shtrley Griffith. 
Shirley Griffith was born on Apri~ 26, 1907, near Brandon, Mississippi, a few miles fr?m Jackson, Mississippi, Shirley b~gan playmg the guitar at age ten; by the time ~e was eighteen, he had met and was studymg the music of the legendary Tommy Johnson, who was already over fifty. (Tommy Johnson, was probably most famous for his versions of C. C. Rider and Canned Heat -­yes, that's where the group got its name -­and, Big Road.) Shirley also knew Ishman Bracey, and from these two ":len tors Sh~rley learned. On Christmas Day m 1928, Shtrley left Jackson and headed North. He stopped in Indianapolis and has been living there since. He met Leroy Carr and Scrapper ­Blackwell and fast friendships developed. For the past thirty years Shirley has worked at the Chevrolet plant in Indy. He has kept up with his music --and his performance at Midwest Blues was as good; if not superior to, his recordings for Blu~sville in 1961.. Since then Shirley has agam recorded, thts time f for Blur Goose, soon to be released. 
Shirley Griffith, together with perha~s Houston Stackhouse and Sam Chatmon, IS one of the few remaining proponents of 'Jackson Blues' -which is of a style that must be differentiated from what we nor­mally expect when we hear a Mississippi or 'Delete' Bluesman. Unlike Delta Blues there is no use of the bottleneck or slide in Jackson Blues. It's not clear why this is so, since bottleneck playing is a style which surely must have been heard and seen by the residents of Jackson. Rather, Jackson Blues may be characterized by stron~ bass runs and picking. So, when speakmg of blues styles, we may say that Shirley G­
~------------------------------, 
1

CAC BLUES SERIES 
presents 

SHIRLEY GRIFFITH 
in a return performance 
at Washington Hall on Friday , September 22 at 8:00p.m. 
Doors open at 7:30 $1.00 at the door 
fluence of these men is not minimal; they have among their successors Howlin' Wolf and Muddy Waters (via Robert Nighthawk)' Howlin' Wolf's famous Sittin' on Top of the-Wm·Jd is a version of the Sheike tune of the s­· arne name recorded in 1932. Muddy's slide playing, is, of course, the influence of Son 
House and Robert Johnson. But the base of 
Muddy's playing has the mark of Robert N­
ighthawk who learned from Houston 
Stackhouse who learned from Tommy 
Johnson! 
The presentation of Shirley Griffith by the 
Blues Series of the Cultural Arts C­
ommission this Friday evening will mark 
the beginning of anew approach to under­
standing and listening to Blues at Notre ­
Dame For the past two years with a degree 
of su~cess <aesthetically) and failure 
(monetarily) the Cultural A.rts Co~mi~sio~ 
has tried to present Blues vta the Fest~val 
route. And, while a festival of Blues. -.y•th ~ 
wide range of performers can be .excttmg, tt 
often times tends to exhaust the listeners, to 
glut them, and still leave many quite 
ignorant about what they'v~ hea~.d. <The 
blues is really more than JUSt Damned 
good music.") Add to this the difficulty in 
the South Bend area the difficulty of at­
tracting an audience of the size needed to 
make a festival work (contra, say, Ann A­
rbor, where 12,000 to 18,000 people show up, 
without a great effort) and it becomes ­
apparent why the Festival notion had to be 
abandoned. We are now going to try to run a 
series of Blues concerts throughout b both 
semesters (say six a semester), bringing ~n 
Bluesmen for one night performances m 
Washington Hall. Hopefully, there will be 
workshops with these concer.ts an~ the 
formal informality of the festival wdl be 
replaced with an opportunity to get close to 
the Blues and the Bluesmen. Since t~e 
series will be running on a break-even basts 
costs will be minimal (only aimed at cover­
ing the performer's fee, sound, and 
publicity). If oossible, a few 'benefits' 
featuring more expensive Bluesmen may be 
held to boost interest in the Series and to ­
enable us to work toward some free concerts 
in the spring. While the scheduling of B­
luesmen is still entirely open, there have 
been suggestions to have_.:a::_:p~pe=:::a:..:.r.:_a_nc_e_s_b.:_y___________________________________ 
THE ALUMNI CLUB ··suPER-WEEKEND" 
FRI & SAT. 9:30-10:30 All Mix Drinks ~ Price 
Sat. -See the Irish Tame Northwestern (2 T V's at Club} open at 12:30 -half-price on mixed drinks For Girls -During the game 12. o.z. Beer-25' Watch The Game Here. 
(Why mess up your place?) 
Friday -4 p.m. -2 a.m,. Sat. -12:30 -2 a.m. 
cruisin' thru rock country 
greg shaw 
and a fairly good closing number. called Alternative Features Service "Promotion Man." All things constdered, High Robbery is one of the best new outings How many of us can remember a time I've heard lately. They have a good, loud, when there was just "rock" and everybody almost-imaginative guitarist, strong vocals, who listened to it liked approximately the and all they really lack at this point is a well-same stuff? defined personality. I think they.ll develop 
Nowadays the dividing lines are pretty one soon. 
clear. The subteen audience is hooked on Although they sound heavily English, Styx music that has evolved from bubblegum to a is from Chicago, and they're produced by surefire popular hit .formula bas~d on the same guy who was responsible for t~e common archetypes of Innocence. Wttb the Shadows of Knight a few years back. Thetr 
Partridge Family, the Jackson Five, the sound is largely organ-based and their Osmonds, and ~ll thei! spinoffs, and. a large singing resembles the harmonies of Gra~d second rank mcludmg groups hke the Funk or Chicago. They have a long sutte Gallery and Daniel Boone, subteen r.ock has called "Movement for the Common Man" more than ever become a world of tts own. that includes some interesting effects, and 
Those past their early 20's are either they cook at times on the other songs, but sticking with the remnants of t~e late-'60's they don't seem to have the necessary drive hard rock movement o~ embracmg ~he new to reach the top in their chosen ge~re.laid-back, shelter-seekmg folk mustc. Much closer to what it's all about ts Ursa 
Right now it's the in-between segment, the Major, whose debut album <RCA 4777) hits teenagers, who are making the most waves £'very base from the demonic scare-chords with their musical tastes. They lean to the of Amon Duul II to a "Back to the Land" 
so-called "heavy" rock, whose roots can be 
traced back to 1966; it's one of the few areas 
of rock where any experimentation is taking 
place. 
The second wave of heavy gro~ps from 
Detroit has dried out. and the th~d, com­posed mostly of Enghsh groups hke Black Sabbath, is still coasting along. Now a fourth wave is upon ~s, made up of groups who seem to be poppmg up out of nowhere and everywhere. Some of them. are dreadfully bad and others show promtse. 
The thing to remember about heavy rock is the importance of riffs. The music is built on riffs and rhythmic sequences that through repetition pound the song into your bones, if done effectively. A heavy rock group rises or falls on its ability ~o inv~nt new riffs and elaborate on them m an m­teresting fashion. 
Here're a few of the newco~e!s: . Highway Robbery opens thetr frrst album <RCA 4735) with a good solid pusher called "Mystery Rider," followed by another fast one, "Fifteen," and by "Lazy Woman," which starts on a cumbersome bass ~ine but builds into a Cream-style amphetamme lead 
guitar rampage. Side two has two slow ones 

The Mississippi And Beale Street Shieks, l!l:!i-1!1:12 B Biograph BLP-12041 
Shirley Griffith--Saturday Blues Bluesville 1087 
The Blues of J. T. Adams and Shirley G­riffith. Indiana Avenue Blues Bluesville 1077 
Sam Chatmon--The Mississippi Sheik Blue Goose 2006 
Bo Carter's Greatest Hits, 19:10-l!l.tO Yazoo L-1014 
Some Cold Hainy Day Southern Preser­vation Records SPR-2 
Masters of Modern Blues, Volume .t, Robert Nighthawk 'Houston Stackhouse Testament T-2215 
number in the Deep Purple style and an obligatory quiet song, "In My Darkest Hour," that's actually good. But "Liberty and Justice" is a dull song based on .an extremely boring riff, so these guys mtss getting top honors. . . 
That distinction goes to Whtte Wttch (Capricorn 0107) which to my mind has £'V£'rything a group needs to command at­tention in the heavy sweepstakes. The singer has an incredible range, and the group shows an uncanny ability to sound like Black Sabbath at their best, yet they also manage to do a song like "Sleepwalk" that sounds like Abbey Road if it had been recorded by the Steve Miller Band. Their riffs are consistently inventive, the songs all move and keep one fascinated with their use of special effects. They also appeal to the Jesus Freaks with "Help Me Lord" the hippies with "It's So Nice to ~e St<?ned," and for those who require a gtmmlCk (prac­tically everybody these days) they've got mystic symbols scrawled all over their faces and a lot of promotional hokum about spiritual awareness and psychic witchcraft. A winning combination. They're from Georgia and should go far. 
Friday, September 22. the observer 
Watergate continued 







Republicans want postponement 
by Patrick Collins and Jeremiah three lawyers representing the In answer to a question about any documents relating to the :suits filed by the Republicans last O'Leary Committee for the Re-election of what evidence the attorneys plan Watergate which O'Brien has week, charging O'Brien with libel ( c l 1!172 Washington Star-News the President, the Finance to introduce Jackson said they given to the news media and any and abuse of the judicial process, 
Committee to Re-elect the would exhibit any confidential information O'Brien may have also were discussed. 
Washington, Sept. 21-Attorneys for President Nixon's campaign committees today asked for another postponement in the $3.2 million invasion of privacy suit filed against them by the Democrats in connection with the Watergate break-in. 
The attorneys have asked United States District Court Judge Charles Richey to suspend all action in the civil case --including deposition proceedings --until the seven men indicted in the case have been tried on criminal charges. 
partisan purposes 
The attorneys said that to con­tinue depositions would create publicity that would prejudice the criminal trial. 
They made the request in response to several preliminary questions asked by Richey to determine how soon the case could go to trial. 
The request was made in a memorandum prepared by Thomas Penfield Jackson, one of President and Maurice Stans, the Finance Committee Chairman. 
During the trial, Jackson said, he would present evidence to show that Lawrence F. O'Brien, former Domocratic National Committee Chairman, filed the suit not to recover any damages but for "partisan political purposes." 
He said the evidence will show that O'Brien used: 
--the deposition proceedings to "create" the appearance that certain Republican campaign officials had knowledge or were participants in the incident in which seven men were indicted on charges including conspiracy and violations of Federal wiretapping Jaw. 
--the suit as a device to explore the interworkings of the Nixon Campaign Committees. 
--the suit to "divert" the Nixon campaign officials' attention from the Presidential campaign. 
Jackson says he plans to call 33 witnesses during the trial, in­cluding 14 Democratic officials, nine newspapermen and a district policeman. 
Krishna people 
celebrate life 
by Jon Nordheimrr <rl 1!172 Nrw York Times 
1\loundsvilll'. W. Va.--On the crown of a lovely green hill in the West Virginia countryside, under the aluminum roof of an open pavilion, the faithful gathered last weekend to change the name of Lord Krishna and kneel at the feet of t­heir spiritual master, a wrinkled brown man named A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada. 
Hare Krishna Hare Krishna 
Krishna Krishna Hare Hare; 
Hare Rama Hare Rama 
Rama Rama Hare Hare. 
It was the opening of a seven-day festival at a communal farm celebrating the birth of Lord Krishna nearly 5,000 years ago, and the chanters were ~embers of the Hare Krishna sect, a small ascetic band of young mendicants in flowing robes who are usually found on the streets of large American cities from Times Square in New York to Ghiradelli Square in San Francisco. 
Prabhupada <Pra-Voo-Pod), as he is called by his followers, came to the United States from India in 1965, to spread the word of Krishna the peripatetic god of the ancient Vedic script~res that constitute the basis of most of the Hindu religious cults. 
In the ensuing years he has shaped a hard-core group of about 1,000 devotees--the worldwide number is placed at more than 3,000--who haver­enounced the material world in the hope of finding spiritual redemption at death. Con­sequently. the members exhibit the enthusiasm of Jesus Freaks. the abstinence of monks and the persistence of a sidewalk Salvation Army drumbeater. 
The Hare Krishnas stalk the city streets in groups ranging from six to a dozen, thumping drums and ringing bells, chanting in the belief that the souls of the nonbelievers they pass will be elevated simply by hearing the divine name of Krishna. 
The men. their heads shaved except for a top knot of hair, wear dhotis Oong loincloths) of burnt orange and pale yellow. The women are dressed in saris. All wear the mark of Krishna--a daub of white clay or some other material that streaks down their forehead to a point between the eyes. 
Most of the devotees are in their late teens or :lO's, and share a background in the upper middle class and the drug culture. While there are those who have been lured from a temporal life of intellectual achievement and status, the majori­ty appeared to be young people who had grown d­isillusioned after extensive experimentation with drugs and the hippie cult. 
"Hippies are our best customers," remarked Dharmaraj Das, a 24 year old, while awaiting the arrival of Phrabhupada at the cult's 350-acre farm in the hilly wedge of West Virginia that s­eparates Pennsylvania and Ohio. "They are frustrated because they have learned that a life of illicit sex and drugs is not the way to spiritual consciousness." 
Purity of mind and body is the path to spiritual awakening, according to the cult's saintly Prabhupada, and devotees accept rigid rules of justice department or FBI report forwarded on to Dade,·. County or grand jury transcripts "found to (Fla.), Prosecutor Richard be in the unauthorized possession Gerstein. Gerstein is prosecuting of O'Brien and his employees or one of the seven, Bernard L. agents." Barker, on local charges. 
He said he planned to produce At today's hearing two counter-
US medical aid lost to Vietnam 
(cl 1!172 New York Times 
Saigon--The inadequacy of the medical care provided by the Sou­th Vietnamese Government to its people is becoming more apparent as American medical support is phased out along with American combat troops. 
With American doctors down to a handful and beds in American military hospitals down to a scant 200--while civilian casualties rise sharply as a result of the five­month-old North Vietnamese of­fensive--the pressure has fallen hard on the inadeuqate medical 



conduct that reject not only the materialism of their city-suburban background, but also the sense of gratification and free expression of the youth culture. 
The Four Regulative Principles, for example, condemn "illicit sex." All sexual contact, in­cluding kissing, is considered illicit unless it is performed by married couples once a month at the optimum time for procreation. Intercourse is to be attempted only after each partner pe­rforms several hours of chanting to cleanse the mind. 
The consumption of meat, fish and eggs is forbidden. 
No intoxicants of any kind are allowed, and that includes coffee and tea. The final restriction is against gambling, which is extended to outlaw all "mental speculation," a dictum that denies devotees the privilege of opinions, whether they be his own or those advanced by other philosophers or spiritual leaders. 
"The rigidity of behavior and thought control has a purpose," observed Prajapati Das, a former social worker from Dallas. 
"The regulations control activity," he ex­plained. "The control of activity reduces ten­sions, freeing the senses. The heightening of the senses enlarges the mind, and leads to a greater consciousness." 
The initiates are expected to turn all their worldly goods over to Prabhupada and submit to the labors he and his assistants request of them. 

SEPT. 22-FRIDAY 8:00P.M." 
FIRST NOTRE DAME 
INTER-LEAGUE SKATING GAMEl 
PIONEERS WITH WESTON &ROBINSON TIIUNOERBIROS WITH HARDMAN &VAllADERES 
NOTRE DAME CONVOCATION CENTER 
PIONEERS VS. THUNDERBIRDS 
-_____ ---------.$2.00 
Lower Arena ____ ---------.$3.00 Loge & Platforms _--------••$4.00 Tickets on Sale At ACC 9-5. 
ND-SMC Student, Faculty, Staff 
$1.00 Discount on $3 and S4 tickets 
system here. 
Visits to hospitals and extensive interviews with foreign and Vietnamese doctors and Viet­namese patients produced these disclosures: 
--Of the slightly more than 2,000 doctors in South Vietnam, 1,600 are in the one-million-man armed forces. leaving only about 400 to serve the nation's 17 million civilians. 
--Although medical care is technically free in Government 
(continued on page 10) 
RoGERS 



Optical 
lOGO ATWRL • OWNH 

Shortly after the Democrats filed their original suit on June 20, lawyers for the defendants sought to postpone the case until after the election. When Richey denied that motion they made another request to keep Democrats from taking sworn statements in the case until after the grand jury completed its investigation. 
That motion was also denied by Richey who has ordered all depositions sealed, but has been generally unresponsive to requests to halt the trial for fear of prejucidial publicity. 
In one court session Richey suggested it might be a good idea to grant immunity to the suspects charged to get the facts out in the open. 
NOW SHOWING 
awife. ahusband. 
·~ Phone 288-8488 I for Times and Directions 
!__ 
HOUIS, MON • TUES -THUll • Rl 
PAM .5r30 P'M 

WED • SAT 9 AM 12 NOON COMPI.f!I'E SPBCI'ACU SEIVICI! ALL E'\'E 01_'S I'IIESOIPTIONS HONOII!t 
Calf 

289-7809 

JESUS RETREAT 
Date: Fri. Sept 22-Sat. Sept.23 
Time: 8:OOpm Fri-8: OOpm Sat. 
a JESUS RETREAT is a 24hr. retreat offering 
participants an opportunity to learn about 
.­

JESUS to learn what it means to be a Christian, and to experience a life of power and hope, in Him. 
Call: 282-2500 days 288-9988 evenings 
-
sponsored by 

TRUE HOUSE COMMUNITY 
~ --a local Catholic Charismatic Community at Notre Dame 
Friday, September 22
10 the observer 
Joint Committee on Cooperation
-usSR joins US in pollution attack 
by Hedrick Smith regions, where the ground is frozen Among the specific projects and effects on marme hfe m lakes the two American cities this fall. (cl 1972 New York Times year-round. described by the two countries as of both countries, using the world -Improvement of earthquake 
Moscow, Sept. 21-The United States and Soviet Union today agreed to undertake 30 joint projects on environmental protection for the cities, farms, rivers, lakes and air of both countriest. 
researchers switch 
At news conference concluding the three-day meeting of their newly established Joint Committee on Cooperation in the Field of Environmental Protection, Soviet and American officials said that some actual projects would get under way as early as November and would put Soviet specialists on American research sites for weeks or months as well as Americans in the Soviet Union. 
If the projects develop as hoped, one American official said, as many as several hundred scien­tists and specialists would be in­volved in joint studies on such problems as air and water pollution, oil spills, seismic research, comprehensive urban environmental problems, pest management to reduce use of chemical pesticides, atmospheric pollution problems caused by super-sonic transports, or the unusual problems of permafrost 
There was no indication, embraced in their new accord famousLake Baikal in Soviet prediction methods with each side however, that the projects would were the following: Siberia and both Lake Tahoe in the setting up equipment on the other's go beyond cooperative research -A joint project for developing American West and one of the territory, the sample regions to be and commit both sides jointly to ,mathematical models on air great Lakes as test areas. in the San Andreas fault, a major develop and apply safeguards for pollution in two cities leading to --A similar study of water California earthquake region of the combatting pollution. improved air control and pollution in river basins with the and Dushanbe in the earthquake 
Russell E. Train, Chairman of management, using St. Louis and Delaware River and a still-to-be-region of the Pamir Mountains, in the White House Council on En-' Leningrad as samples. Privately, designated Soviet River as sites, the central Asian Republic of 
vironmental Quality and ·chief 1. American delegate here, hailed today's agreement as an un­preeedented breakthrough in in­ternational cooperation on en­vironmental problems. It ex­tended the earlier agreement signed last May 23 by President Nixon and President Nikolai V. 
Podgorny. 
a great beginning 
"We are trying to develop solutions by bringing our people together to work on projects as a team," Train told newsmen. At the House of Unions, a conference center. "This is the new element. This is by far the most com­prehensive agreement on en­vironmental cooperation ever entered into by any two nations." 
His Soviet counterpart, Yevgeny 
K. Fyodorov, head of the Soviet hydrometeorological service, praised the 20-page memorandum they signed as "a great beginning to be followed by active work for the benefit of both countries." 
American officials said neither side had been particularly anxious to begin with their largest cities, New York and Moscow. 
--Joint study of water pollution 
M F } d 
C ar an getS Andersen grant 
Dr. Andrew R. McFarland, associate professor of civil engineering, has received a grant of $10,061 from Andersen 2000, Inc., to develop techniques for isolating and studying particulate air pollutants of very small size. 
Presently, he explained, ap­paratus which can separate particles of smaller than about one-half micrometer is not available. McFarland is presently working on a "low-pressure impactor" which will extend the range of size­separation techniques to .05 micrometers--a range which will include most airborne particles. 

South Viets lack 1nedical care 

Saigon: A room in the Children's Hospital in the Chonese sector of Saigon. Seven beds serve 25 children, their parents or relatives often stay in the hospital overnight to tend them, because of a shortage of hospital aides. 
New York Times Photo 
EPA extends area consortiu.m prograzn 
The Midwest Universities Air plans to try the game with Notre 
Pollution Consortium, a group of Dame engineering students 
seven area universities including The consortium also sponsors 
the University of Notre Dame, has regional conferences for faculty, 
received $30,000 from the En-air pollution control agency per­
vironmental Protection Agency to sonnel and industrial represen­
continue its programs for another tatives to discuss problems of local 
year. concern. The group will continue 
Dr. Andrew R. McFarland, its seminar series, which brings 
associate professor of civil technical lectures on air pollution 
engineering and Notre Dame's 'to all seven universities. 
representative on the group, ex-' Members of the Midwest Con­
plained that the group has three ' sortium are the Universities of 
main goals in its program to foster Wisconsin. Minnesota, Illinois, 
improved communication and Northwestern, Purdue, Notre 
understanding of area air pollution : Dame and the Illinois Institute of 
problems. Technology. 
The first is to supply tutorial and 
educational material to university 
students. McFarland said that one 
popular and useful tool to help
-. 
students understand the complex r I I FRESHMAN who have expressed interested in 
-
social, political economic and ;;cientific problems facing efforts .o control pollution is a new computerized game called 
KARATE 

"APEX". Developed for use at the 
Air Pollution Control Institute in 
Come to gym 4 ACC

Los Angeles, the game assigns students certain "roles" in the 
Mon. Sept. 25 6:30 p.m.
community, and the computer then I lets them see the results of their decisions on the city. McFarland 
last day for applications for semester 
(continued from page 9) 
hospitals, only special payments to doctors, nurses and other medical personnel will assure any at­tention. 
--For long periods of the day, there may not be a single doctor in a provincial hospital. Its 500 or 600 beds are filled, sometimes with two or three people to a bed. Other patients lie on the floor and still others lie in hallways outside the wards. 
--Most Vietnamese civilians admitted to American military hospitals under a special war casualties program had illnesses not related to the war and amny were persons of political impor­tance who gained admission by their influence. 
-In most provincial hospitals few records are kept, almost no laboratory services are available and sanitation is often non­existent. 
This is the situation at a time when the United States has reduced its medical aid to the Saigon Government to $9 million a year. The cost of .meeting the current North Vietnamese ­offensive, according to the Pen­tagon, is over $1 billion, and the medical aid is less than I per cent of even that figure. 
American medicaid has never been very large. In 1968 it reached a peak of $25 million. American medical officials here say that it should be increasing now, instead of faling, because of the mounting civilian casualties and because there are virtually no American facilities left to supplement the Vietnamese ones. 
When asked why aid is dropping, these American officials shrug unhappily and say that it is out of their hands, that military aid has alwyas had the overwhelming priority and, if anything, that it has even higher priority now. 

hopefully adding the Potomac Tadzhikistan. River and a second Soviet site --Studies of entirely new com-later. munities bringing Soviet 
Joint studies of comprehensive researchers to Reston, Va., and 
urban environmental problems Columbia, Md., and sending 
comparing San Francisco and Americans to some free-standing 
Atlanta with Leningrad and a Soviet communities outside the 
second Soviet city, not yet chosen. North Siberian mining center of 
The first Soviet teams would visit Norilsk. 
So-uth Bend's Newest 

THE RED DOOR CLUB 
llOlh N. Main
I 

fBehfnd Wyman's in Allen's Alley~
I 

L 
I featuring: Jimmy Foy on the piano Ray Reindeer on the guitar 
N.D. Ni~ht on Tuesdav OPEN II A.M. to 3 P.M. 
Pre-Law Society Meeting 
Juniors, Sophomores, Freshmen 
Friday, September 22 1972 
Library Auditorium, 7:30 pm 
LAKESIDE THEA iRE 
presents 
I'BULLIT" 
Sat. Sept. 23 Holy Cross Aud. (ND) 
7:30 & 10:00 75' 



BICYCLE CENTER 
OPEN MONDAY 'TIL 8:30 PM Phone 287-1623 Daily 9:30 'til 5:30 1437 Portage Ave. 
CHICAGO BLACK HAWKS 
VS.DALLAS 
SATURDAY, SEPT. 23rd 8:30p.m. NOTRE DAME cotfv'J'cLN,'8N1:fNTER 
ALL SEATS RESERVED 
Prices: 
ADULTS •••$3.50 
CHILDREII 
12 .AND UNDER $2.00 
Tickets on sale at ACC Mon.-Sat. 9-5 also at Gate J, one hour before game 


WE SERVICE ALL MAKES 
IMPORTED & DOMESTIC 





Youthful Irish open_w__,l~·t~h-=---'_C-----=:--a~ts_ 
by Jim Donaldson 

Sports Editor 
Match two young teams with almost totally rebuilt defenses and sophomore quarterbacks early in the season and what have you got? Quite likely, an exciting, un­predictable football game. Or, you might call it Notre Dame versus Northwestern Saturday afternoon in Evanston's Dyche Stadium. 
The Fighting Irish open their 84th season of collegiate football tomorrow against the Wildcats with sophomore Tom Clements at quarterback and six other sophs, as well as a freshman, in the starting lineup. Northwestern will counter with a sophomore signal caller of its own -Mitch Anderson ­and a defensive unit anchored by only two veterans. 
C'lements was given the starting QB nod Wednesday by coach Ara Parseghian, entering his ninth vear at Notre Dame with a 66-12-4 record. 
"Tom has shown that he has a great concept of our offense, and he has improved every day," Parseghian says. "He can move the offensive unit." 
Northwestern coach Alex Agase elected to go with Anderson, rather than senior Todd Somers, after Anderson completed four of six passes in the second half of the Wildcats' 7-0 loss at Michigan last weekend. 
Clements and Anderson cer­tainly won't feel like they're playing wih a bunch of "old men", Saturday. Two other sophomores, speedy halfback Eric Penick, and guard Gerry DiNardo join Clements on Notre Dame's number one offense and the Irish defensive unit will have an even younger look. 
No less than four sophs, linebachers Sherm Smith and Drew Mahalic, end Mike Fanning and halfback Reggie Barnett, as well as a freshman, tackle Steve Niehaus, will be in the starting defensive lineup against the 'Cats. 
Northwestern leans heavily on its young players too, especially on defense, where tackle Jim An­derson and linebacker Mike Barty are the only returnees form North­western's 1971 unit. 
The Wildcats' defense looked 
anything but inexperienced in 
limiting the powerful Wolverines 
to only seven points Saturday in 
Ann Arbor. 
Led by Anderson, who made 11 
solo tackles, the 'Cats kept 
Michigan's explosive ground game 
in check and prompted Agase to 
comment afterwards, "Our 
defense did an admirable job for 
being so new" 
ND offers Red 
Cross course 
, A Red Cross wa~er safety in­structors course will be offered Tuesday at 8:00 A.M. The only requirement is a current senior lifesaving course. For information about either course call Bro. Lewis at 6321. 
Jayvee netmen 
/ 


trounce Bethel 
Notre Dame's junior varsity 
tennis team upped its season 
record to 2-o Thursday, disposing 
of Bethel College, 8-Q, at the 
Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Barry Andrews highlighted the 
Irish sweep of the singles with a 6­
0, 6-Q whitewash of Jeff Van­
derReyden. Other singles winners, 
all in straight sets, were Mike 
O'Donnell, Pat Murphy, Bill 
Sierks, and Bob Johnson. 
The Irish doubles teams en­
countered slightly more 
resistance, however as Andrews 
and Chris Amato were forced into 
overtime against Mike O'Donnell 
and Terry Parker before finally 
disposing of them, 7-5, 7-5. 


The Irish Eye 
================================::::::::::::::::=====================================:::::::::::::::::::::: Foo tba II Picks 
As far as many football fans across the country are concerned, the football season hasn't really begun. Sure, three-quarters of the nation's 
1 colleges have played at least one game and a goodly number have played two, but, to a certain segment of college football fandom, the year doesn't start until Notre Dame plays its first game. 
The Irish faithful have waited impatently for the season opener, wat­ching idly as other colleges started their schedules and speculating about just what sort of ball club Ara Parseghian would produce in his ninth year at Notre Dame. 
Saturday, the waiting will be over. The Irish, seeking to return to the top ten in the national polls after a final ranking of 13th a year ago, begin their 1972 campaign tomorrow in Dyche Stadium in Evanston, Illinois, home of the Northwestern Wildcats. 
There are a number of other top-flight games on tap this weekend, including UCLA vs. Michigan, Georgia Tech vs. Michigan State, Air Force vs. Pittsburgh and Stanford vs. Duke. Here are this week's predictions of the outcomes of those, and other key college games: 
Notre Dame over Northwestern --The Irish have never lost an opener during Parseghian's tenure. They won't set a precedent this season. W<'st Virginia over Virginia --The Mountaineers will burst the un­beaten Cavaliers' bubble. 
Missouri over Baylor -A new wishbone offense has given the Tigers needed scoring punch. Mter an upset win over Oregon, they've had two weeks to prepare for Baylor. 
Texas over Miami <Fla.) --The Longhorns ought to win impressively in their season debut. Penn State over Navy -The Nittany Lions will come into this one angry after last week's loss to Tennessee. Poor Navy. Southern California over Illinois -The Trojans have a powerhouse ball club. Illinois doesn't. Nebraska over Army--Some Army officials like the Cadets' schedule maker, really do like to see people get killed. Georgia over Tulane --Despite the loss of a number of talented of­fensive linemen, the Bulldogs still have a powerful bite. Washington over Purdue --The Huskies are the better team, but don't be surprised if Purdue makes this one a close game. Louisiana State over Texas A & M -The Tigers should feast on the Aggies. UCLA over Michigan ---Harmon the younger seeks to put down / Harmon the elder's alma mater. 
Air Force over Pittsburgh -Both teams have potent offenses but are suspeCt on defense. Look for plenty of points, more than half of them put on the scoreboard by the Falcons. 
Texas Christian over Indiana -The Horned Frogs make their first visit to the Hoosier state this fall. They'll win this time, but not on their second trip -to South Bend, Oct. 28th. 
Stanford over Duke -Stanford, coming off a 44-Q trouncing of San 
Jose State, looks good enought o make the Blue Devils 0-3. Upset of the week Georgia Tech over Michigan State -It'll be a tough feat in Spartan 
Stadium, but the Yellowjackets are good enough to pull it off. Last Week's Pet.: 11 of15 1733 Season's Pet.: 22 of 30 .733 
Parseghian has a great deal of respect for Northwestern's youth­ful defensive contingent, too. 
"Northwestern has a sticky defense that reacts well," Par­seghian commented earlier this week, after viewing films of the Michigan-Northwestern game. 
One aspect of that contest which surprised the Irish coach was the small number of times that the 'Cats threw the ball (11). With first-rate receivers like split end Jim Lash and tight end Steve Craig, the Wildcats can boast of two of the best pass catchers in the Big Ten. 
"I expect them to throw more against us," Parseghian predicted. 
Explaining why he stayed mainly on the ground last Satur­day, Agase remarked, "We weren't consistent with our throwing. It was our passing game that got us into trouble. But that was our quarterbacks' first game and they'll get better." 
The Irish figure to be able to move the ball both on the ground and in the air. With speed backs like Penick, Greg Hill and Gary Diminick and power backs such as Andy Huff, John Cieszkowski and Darryll Dewan, the Notre Dame rushing game appears almost awesome, capable of striking both inside and outside with devastating 
power. And if the 'Cats gear their defense to stop Notre Dame's rushing attack, Clements, who's been completing between 60 and 65 per cent of his passes in scrim­mages this fall, can throw the ball to either tight end All-American 

Harriers drub Valparaiso 19-44 
by John Wick 
The Notre Dame cross country team scored its first victory of the season Wednesday, trouncing Valparaiso 19-44 in a dual meet at Valpo. 
Irish captain Dan Dunne cap­tured first place honors in the meet, covering the five­milecoursein a good time of 26:25. Kevin Shallenberger, a fast­improving Valpo freshman, finished second, completing the race 15 seconds after Dunne. That was the best the Crusaders could muster, however, as Notre Dame harriers captured the next six places. 
Despite being spiked and taking a spill in the first 100 yards of the ­race, sophomore Mike Gahagan finished third in 27:01 with teammates Jeff Eichner, Marty Hill, and Jim Hurt right behind him. Not far back were Irish runners George Christopher and promising freshman Tom Callahan. 
The Irish runners stayed together in a close pack for the ­first mile and a half of the race, after which the top contenders began to pull away. By the three mile mark Dunne, Shallenberger and Gahagan had made their move and continued to increase the distance between the rest of the field throughout the remainderof the race. 


Notre Damehas a well-balanced club, .as evidenced by the com­bination of experienced lettermen and young freshmen who finished in the top ten for the Irish at Valpo. A first place finish does not always win a cross country meet for a 
• team --a strong backbone of second, third, fourth and fiff.!Ypla­ce finishers in required. coach Alex 'Wilson feels that this year's squad now has the necessary depth to capture those essential places and they displayed that capability Wednesday. 

The Irish runners are in high spirits after their opening victory 

Irish Sports Weeklybut face a ~?tiff test Saturday in a quadrangular meet with Northwestern, the University of On sale in the A-8 lobby of the Illinois and Carthage College to be held in Evanston, lll. Both Nor­
North Dining Hail
thwestern and Illinois had • fine teams in '71 and, if they are 


at SMC and main
similarly strong this year, Notre Dame will have a much tougher 


lobby of the South Dining Hall
time than they did at Valparaiso. 



prospect Mike Creaney, split end The Irish would seem capable of Willie Townsend, or one of the putting more than a few points on 
backs, all of whom can grab the the scoreboard themselves. But,ball and move with it. early in the season, things are 
Parseghian 's biggest concern is unpredictable.his "green" defensive unit. "They 
There is just one constant factor are young and tend to make about Notre Dame openers. Since 
mistakes." the Irish coach says. Parseghian started coaching the "Mistakes on defense often show Irish in 1964, they've never lost 
up on the scoreboard." their first game. 
---~-~----~----~--------------~ 

Friday, September 22, 1972
12 
the observer 
No US combat deaths last week 
• 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Saigon, Sept. 21-For the first time since March 1, 1965, a week has passed with no American combat deaths in Indochina, the United States Command reported today. 
According to the American figures for the week of Sept. 10-16, there were no American deaths resulting from hostile action, although there were five deaths attributed to accidental or natural causes. 
Seven Americans were listed as wounded, of whom three required hospitalization. Another four were described as missing in action or captured. Persons listed in the latter category are sometimes 
SB day-care center begins supply drive 
by Pam Gavelda Observer Staff Writer 
A special drive to obtain supplies needed for a South Bend day-care center will begin today. 
Hospitality House, 1109 W. Thomas St., is a new center. for children of Chican migrant farm workers. Manpower development training classes, offered to parents of the children, especially the women, are designed to help make the transition from rural to urban life easier. Th_e day-care center will tend to the c!hildren while the 
Badin Hall sets weekend activities 
Flicks, fun, and football are all part of the activities planned this weekend by the women of Badin Hall. 
The famous Badin Vintage Cinema will return for a two-night stand Friday and Saturday with the Movie "Citizen Kane," to be shown in the chapel at 7:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. Prices remain unaffected by inflation--still seventy-five cents per person. If 
the showing is a success, the Badin Vintage may return permanently.Also on Friday evening from 9:00 
p.m. till 2:00p.m., Badin will host 
a party for the former residents of 
the hall, to be held on fourth floor. 
Sunday will feature the first Badin-Walsh interhall football ~arne. Kickoff is slated from 2:30 
and will be on the field next to the parents are attending classes. 
The center desperately needs equipment , including toys, diapers, books and other articles, for children ranging from infancy to age four. Kitchen equipment, such as cookware, dinnerware, utensils and cleaning articles, are also needed. 
People at ND and SMC, especially grad students and prof­essors, should bring their donations to Room 112 in the Notre Dame Biology Building today or tomorrow. 
This drive is sponsored by the NO womens Social Action Group, the law wives in particular. 
the

Volunteers to care for children will be needed soon. 
transferred to the killed in action list when additional information is obtained. 
In recent months American casualties have dropped steadily. Last week, only one American was reported killed in action. 
The latest weekly report brought American casualties in Southeast 
Asia  since  Jan.  1,  1961  to  the  
following totals:  
. --Deaths resulting from  hostile  
action, 45,857.  
--Deaths  resulting  from  

nonhostile action (accidental and natural), 10,274. --Wounded requiring hospital care, 153,161. -Wounded not requiring hospital care, 150,226. 
-Total wounded, 303,387. 
--Missing, captured or interned, 1,675. Missing not resulting from hostile action <mainly desertions), 118. 
The preceding statistics cover American casualties throughout the war area, including North and South Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos. 
The first American to die in the Indochina war was Army Spec. 4 James T. Davis of Livingston, 


In the ACC on September 30 at 8: 30 
··All Front Stage Seats • SOLD OUT A limited number of lower arena seats behind 
th t 
e s age will now be sold for $3.00 at the ACC Ticket Office (Gate 10) from 9 to 5 today Saturday, and next week. ' 
·GUESS WHO tickets go on sale next week· 
University Club~·------~======~~~~~~~t~h~e~S~tu~d~e~n~t~U~n~i~o~n;:··:::·===.:::__:-:_~1
1 
enjoy the 


We're ready to show you everything you'll need in clothing 
and accessories ... suits, sportcoats, jeans, shoes, belts shirts 
jackets, all-weather coats and much, much mor~. Ali 
university styled. 
PAY NEXT YEAR ...NO SERVICE CHARGE 
This is the exclusive Campus Shop Way to buy ... choose your apparel now, pay one-third next January, one-third in February and one-third in March. You pay no service or carrying charge of any kind. 

{it's the new look) 
HAGGAR FLARES 
Tailored in a miraculous Fortrel polyester for complete comfort and easy care. The smart diagonal weave goes for casual or dress, has a gentleman's flare. Choose from several solid shades. 
$14 
TOP IN ••• SEE THE TOTAL LOOK 
Tenn., killed in a Communist ambush near Saigon on Dec. 22, 1961. 
As more American advisers and heiicopter pilots arrived in Viet­nam the flow of casualties in­creased steadily. But the toll reached large proportions only after Feb. 7, 1965, when the United States sent large numbers of ground troops. At its highest, the 
American  presence  in  South  
Vietnam  exceeded  one  half  
million.  

Tonight! 

People and Song 
present lim McKee Chris Marut Rick Walters lim Gresser Chuck Beck 
Alumni Hall Lounge Every Fri. 9-2 Adm. Refreshments 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
PERSONALS 

Butchie Walsh: 1953-1972 (wishful thinking). the boys in 105 Mo. 
FOR SALE 

Ladies dresses. mostly Jerseys, and coats, size 12 & 14, boots, · shoes, size 7. Also textured nylon carpet. and pad. 5 and two-thirds X 11 and two-thirds ft, like new. Rubber back washable rug 81/2 X 
11 It. Sat. & Sun. Sept. 22 & 23. And Sept. 30 & Oct. 1. 1006 So. Edison St., South Bend. 
Need some beer signs. posters, to finish off those rooms? See Zen in 405 Flanner. 
For Sate: female dalmation. 8 months, purebred but no papers . bargain at $25.00. 234-8947. 
1972 Honda C B 100 $350 or best offer. 259~9517 after 6. 
1965 Impala excellent condition. new tires, battery ·call Ray, 233­6280. 
For Sale: 1967 Pontiac tempest 4 door hardtop v-8 power steering, power brakes good condition $900. Call Steve Rathka at 259-1941. 
1969 blue Shelby GT-350, 33,000 miles, perfect condition. body work needed, call Ed-287-3666. 
1970 MGB roadster, blue, 10,000 miles. Asking $2400. Call 234· 8533. 
For Sale: Couches $10-30, Chairs $3-7.50. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. Free delivery to campus. Open 
Sunday. 

NEW Westinghouse compact refrigerators. 4.4 cubic ft. capacity, full warranty, im­mediate delivery, costs less than leasing. Call now. Wynne's Refrigeration Co. 234-0578. 
Porsche 66-912 5-spd excellent abarth, cibie, pirellis, rebuilt engine · $2850 · best offer 233-1039 
. or 234-1563. 

For Sale: '64 Lincoln Continental, Deluxe Special, air. 47,000 miles Sweet condition. $750 -Mike 233· 5336. 
WANTED 

Needed: 3 general admission tickets for Pittsburgh. Contact Joe 7471 or 232-5633. 
Need 2 Mi:higan fix's. Will pay higher prices. Call 6768. 
Desperatnly need one Purdue ticket. .\/Ioney no object. Call John 3239. 
Wanted: bicycle in good con­dition, 3, Sor 10 speed. Call Pete­8810. 
Wanted: 4 general admission tix for Pitt. Call John 8810. 
Wanted: motel rooms for Oct. 14. 
If you have reservations in a nearby motel for both nights of the Pitt. weekend, and you only want to use Friday's, call me! 1 need two double rooms for relat­ives on Oct. 14. Will gladly pay the price. John 8810. 
Desperately need 2-4 general admission tickets to Pittsburgh, Missouri, or Texas Christian. Call Mel 4794. 
Wanted: afternoon teacher for the ND -SMC Day Care. phone 284-4317. 
Shahuahanpur need student 
Purdue tickets. Call 6920 after midniqht. 
Need two general admission tix together for Missouri and Texas Christian game. Call Kevin at 7845. 
Need 4 general admission tickets for Missouri game. Name the price! Chris. 1002. 
Need 3 TCU tix call Rich, 1314. 
Need any number Purdue tickets. Call Jim 287 0900. Leave message. 
Needed: two Purdue tix can be separate. Call Mary 4635. 
Need Purdue tix. Will pay your price. Call 7819, 7812, or 7471. 
Need 2 general admission tix to Pittsburgh. Must be together. c. all John 7845. 
Need Purdue tickets, general admission or student. Call Frank 8825 or Ed 8463. 
Wanted: part-time legal secretaries to assist small law firm. General practice. Inquire: 920 South Bend Avenue; 234-3216. 
Need 2-5 tickets for Pittsburg or TCU. Joe 8374. 
Desperately need three (togehter) gen. admission Missouri tickets. Will meet any reasonable price. Call 8446. 
May Day! May Day! 2 or 4 
Purdue tickets needed. Tom 8636 or Paul 7861. 
Need. 1-4 Purdue tickets. Call John 1598. 
LOST 
Brown wallet lost around Stanford Hall Sunday. Reward. Jim 8725. 
Lost: gold Wittnauer watch Thursday or Friday, Sept. 15, south quad. John 1960, reward. 
NOTICES 
Officers of the Canton, Cincy, Met. Mountain West. Philadelphia, and Indianapolis geographic clubs, or anyone in· terested in starting or revitalizing a geographic club, where are you? Student Alumni Relations group is sponsoring a help session to get new clubs started and ailing clubs back on their feet. Please call 7268. 
Now accepting; poems, photos, fiction, drama and Essays for fall issue of Juggler; NO's only journal of the student aarts. Send material to P.O. Box 583. 
Morrissey loan fund open . Borrow up to $150. 11:15-12:15 Monday thru Friday. LaFortune Basement. 
Sister Marita needs volunteers for her school. Meeting: Monday, Sept. 25 B pm in LaFortune's lobby. 
Indiana residents: Write to Marion county election board room W ·131 city county bldg. indianapolis, Indiana 46204 before 1 october 1972 to get absentee ballots. 
Please! Anyone who mistakenly took our winter clothes from the fieldhouse storage, please be honest enough to return it. Call Ken or Lucy Foley at 289-2389. 
Europe and back for $190! How can you atford to stay home? Call Clark, 283-8810. 
Dependable mother of two will babysit in home. Riverside Manor, north of twon 272-1780. 







