
Ll'ss sun and more cold. 


Volume VI, No. 64 serving the notre dame-saint mary's community Wednesday, January 26, 1972 
Cease/ire, Thieu resignation proposed 
Nixon offers total pullout 
by Robert B. Semple Jr. (l'l l!li2 Nt'w York Times News Service 
Washington. Jan. 25--President Nixon offered tonight a new peace proposal which would include a total cease-fire throughout Indochina, the withdrawal of all U.S. and Allied forces from South Vil'tnam within six months of acceptance of the proposal by Hanoi, and a political solution for South Vietnam. 
The proposed political solution included three major elements: ·-A new presidential election in South Vietnam. 
--An agreement by South Vietnamese Prl'sident Nguyen Van Thieu to resign his office, along with Vice President lluong one month before the proposed new l.'lection. 
--A willingness on Nixon's part to allow "independent body" representing all political forces in South Vietnam, in­cluding the National Liberation Front, to organize and run the election. 
In exchange for U.S. agreement to with­draw its troops within six months of a settlement, Nixon said, North Vietnam should agree in its part of the bargain, to the "release of all military men and in­nocent civilians captured throughout Indochina." 
The South Vietnamese and American forces would also release their prisoners, and the excahnge would be carried out in tandem with the troop withdrawals. 
SECRET TALKS 
The president revealed his latest set of proposals in the course of a dramatic appearance on nationwide television in which he disclosed, in some detail, a series of secret negotiations in Paris between Dr. Henry A. Kissinger, his national security affairs adviser, and the enemy's chief negotiators. 
Nixon said he had chosen now to disclose these negotiations, in part because many Aml'ricans had underestimated what the 
ll.S. government had tried to do to break the negotiating deadlock; in part because the North Vietnamese have created the impression that "the United States has not pursued negotiations intensively;" and in part because it wsas now his judgement "that the purposes of peace will best be served by bringing out publicly the proposals we have been making in private." 

These negotiations, the President said, began Aug. 4, 1971 and ended on Aug. 16, 1971, despite subsequent Administration efforts to get them started again. 
STEMS DEMOCRATIC OPPOSITION 
During the course of these talks, Nixon said, he had instructed Kissinger to make in private several major proposals which the President's Democratic opponents have accused him a failing to set before enemy negotiators. 
Chief among these, he said, was a proposal offered to the North Vietnamese on May 31, 1971, under which the United States would agree to a deadline for the withdrawal of all American forces in exchange for the release of all prisoners of war and a cease-fire. 
This, in essence, has been the substance of a number of resolutions proposed by the Democratic majority in Congress--­resolutions the Administration has systematically opposed. 
continued on page 2 
by John W. Finney (Cl 1!172 New York Times 

Washington, Jan. 25--President Nixon's eig~t-point peace proposal was applauded tomght by Administration supporters but greeted with a mixture of skepticism and surprise by Vietnam war critics in Congress. 
To Administration supporters the President's disclosure of the s~cret negotiations and the American offer was taken as evidence that Nixon had done everything possible to achieve a negotiated settlement of the war. Among the critics there was doubt that the President had gone far enough or that his proposal would be acceptable to North Vietnam. 
Sen. J.W. Fulbright, the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and one of the harshest critics of the Ad­ministration's Vietnam Policies said that the President had offered what' would be considered in western eyes a "fair and generous" proposal. 
"But what looks generous to us may not 
"

look generous to North Vietnam 
Fulbright said in suggesting "we m~y 
have to do more" to get a favorable 
response from North Vietnam. The 
"sticking point," he said remains the 
question of whether the U~ited States is 
"willing to get out and leave the Thieu 
government to its own devices." 
. F~om the initial Congressional reaction, 
It d1d not appear that the President in 
disclosing his peace initiatives w~uld 
achieve one of his stated goals of ~nifying 
the American people and the Congress 
behind his position. 
There were expressions of support, such 
as from Sen. John Stennis, chairman of the 
Senate Armed Services Committee and 
Rep. F. Edward Herbert, chairman of the 
House Armed Services Committee. 
Stennis said, "This shows that the 
President has repeatedly done all that he 
col!ld reasonably and honorably do as the 
Chief Executive of our nation." 
Hebert said that "tonight in the cause of 
peace the President had his finest hour." 
"He demonstrated beyond any doubt his sincerity of purpose and his continuing effort in spite of the efforts to challenge the fact that he has been fighting the cause of peace to bring about the end of the useless and tragic slaughter in Vietnam," Hebert said. 
Admissions Office: 1100 coed applications 
by Jack Kelly 
The ND Admissions Office is presently processing all female appplications to both ND and SMC. according to Admission Counselor Anne Hollander. 
Miss Hollander, an employee of St. Mary's., is responsible for all applications from females. tinder the present applications syst(•m. fl.'males petitioning for l'ntrance into either ND or SMC receive the same application form. When applying the women may choose to apply for ad­mission only to SMC under St. Mary's rules and standards, to Notrl' Dame under ND's stan­dards, or to both schools. 
Miss Hollander siad "The of­fice has received over 1100 female applications, of which Notre Dame has accepted 29." ND has not finalized any further acceptances. 
Miss Hollander siad that she did not have "any particular bias" towards St. Mary's. "I try to be unbiased, and to refer the girls to the school which would fit th£' girls desired curriculum," shC' said "I am employed by St. Mary's but as my title says I'm an admissions counselor." 
Notre Dame Admissions DirC'ctor John Goldrick, said "the admissions guidelines, which are Sl'tup in the Notre Dame Report number six, are such that we can accept 200 girls for transfer and 125 girls as freshmen." SMC is yet to establish their quota for acceptance. 
"Their is no special con­sideration for females. They receive the same consideration as males-that is according to quota only the most qualified are accepted," Goldrick continued. To date 25 per cent of applicants have applied only to SMC, 25 per cl'nt to ND only and 50 per cent to both, ND and SMC, Goldrick said. 
Both Miss Hollander and (ioldrick said that applications for females had increased and that the ND admissions race had bl'come, in Goldrick's term "l'xceptionally tough." 


John Goldrick, N D admissions director, is accepting applications to 
N D from both men and women. 
---------------~-­
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, January 26, 1972 
Close vote backs law addition 

will have a better long term impact on the law school," llartzer said. Although he is not sure what Dean Shaffer's reaction to the referendum results will be, Hartzer promised that attempts to convince Shaffer of the value of the other alter­natives will continue. 
Hartzer has already suggested other alternatives in the Ob­s••rvPI'. ''The Dean will always listen to us. It's just that he hasn't been convinced yet." 
"As far as Dean Shaffer is concerned, his decision is final. Nevertheless, the referendum showed that a substantial part of the law students are not real crazy about the dean's decision. We'll continue to talk with him until the day before the bulldozers come," Hartzer said. 
Diagram of the new addition to the law building 

by Rob CosPntino 

Law School students narrowly approved the Dean Thomas SShaffer's decision to add affix a $1.6-million addition to the law building. 
Student Bar Association president Tim Hartzer an­nounced that 309 out of the school's 450 students voted Monday and Tuesday. 155 of those students voted in favor of the dean's proposal while 153 were against it. One student was undecided. 
Hartzer, who is opposed to the dean's current decision, said that the dean's decision would produce a "locking-in effect" on the students. "It would reduce the student body size and also movement that was started by the former dean (William Lawless),'' said Hartzer. 
"The purpose of conducting the refendum was to find out exactly what the students think" com­mented Hartzer. "The fact that 153 people said they don't like the dean's proposals says something­maybe a lack of understanding or something." 
The SBA President said that the highest number of students agains the proposals are second 
year  students.  "These  are  the  
ones  directly  affected  by  the  
construction"  according  to  

Hartzer, which is scheduled to begin on June 1. 
"We think there are other alternatives to be pursued which 
For the fifth time 
Nixon announces troop withdrawal again 
continued from page 1 
At the next meeting, on June 26. the North Vietnamese rejected the American offer, responding with a counterproposal which, in Nixon's words, insisted that the United States overthrow the government of South Vietnam. 
Five days later, Nixon recalled, Hanoi's negotiators publicly unveiled a seven-point package which still included the requirement that the United States abandon its support of the Thieu regime. 
Although a White House official who briefed newsmen tonight would not expand on the dif­ferences between the enemy's private and public overtures, Nixon suggested that it was a somewhat broader propo;;Jl covering all of Indochina. In any event, on July 12, at yet another private meeting in Paris, Kissinger agreed, at North Vietnam's request, to deal henceforth with the nine-point private plan. 
Later, on August 16, Kissinger again offered the complete with­drawal of the U.S. and Allied forces--but this time he said the United States would do so nine months after an agreement on over-all settlement. The North Vietnamese, according to the President, rejected this proposal, too. 
Despite accusations from the North Vietnamese that the United States had failed to respond to its public proposal, Nixon resolved in October to make another effort and sent what he described as a "private communication" to Paris that contained "new elements." 
One of the major "new 
elements of the October package, a White House official said tonight, was the suggestion that President Hieu, assuming a settlement could be agreed upon, would resign his office one month before the new election. That suggestion was made public in tonight's speech as a firm proposal. 

ABORTION 
"At stake is the sanctity of life itself and the responsibility of society to protect life." 
Bishop Mark Hurley Notre Dame Santa Rosa, Calif Knights of Columbus -Council 1477 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
However, -Nixon went on, a Nixon's speech followed w•-eks The next day, Sen. Georgemeeting between Kissinger and of criticism from some of his McGovern, who met with North his North Vietnamese coun­Democratic opponents that he Vietnamese officials in Paris last 
terparts to discuss the October had failed to make a clear, public summer, complained that a plan ahas never been held. The offer to the North Vietnamese to formal offer had not in fact been 
North Vietnamese agreed to withdraw all American troops by made and that Nixon was meet on November 20, he said an agreed date in exchange for deceiving the public. 
FOR INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS CONTACT ­
Bob Atkinson Chuck Hamilton Bill Kelley 
Jordan Motors, Inc. Joe Hayden, Inc. Romy Hammes Fordland 609 East Jefferson Blvd. 1102 South llth Street 244 South Olive Mishawaka, Indiana 46554 Niles, Michigan 49120 South Bend, Indiana 46621 
C;ll9) 259-1981 (616) 683-3920 (219) 289-4041 


RENT·A·CAR 
For students and faculty 21 and over. 

Wednesday, January 26, 1972 
THE OBSERVER Page 3 

vvorld 
briefs 

<cl 1972 New York Times 
Washitu~ton--A Lu;rpromise foreign economic and military aid authorization of $2.75 billion \\-as passed by the House and sen~ to the White House. At the same time, the Senate Appropriations Co•.nmittee approved a bill that would provide only $2.16 billion. Senate Majority Ll'ader Mike ·Mansfield suggested that not even this amour t r11ay be approved hy the full Senate. 
lhl<'<'ll. Pakistan--The Indian-Pakistan War was prolonged because Pakistan's acceptance of India's surrender terms for West Paksitan was delayed in Washington for 21 hours. According to unimpeachable sources. tLe reason for the delay was not known, but some sources said it stemmed from an attempt by the Administration to clarify its own position regarding the conflict. 
Washington--For the first time this century the United States last year imported more than it exported. The Comm~rce Department said in reporting the figures for December that the surplus of imports ov£'r exports came to $2.04 billion for the year. The I1epartment siad, how£'ver. that the tigurcs for the last half of the ;_Tear were badly distorted by anticipated, actual or ending dock strikes. 
Zm·ich. Switzerland--Police in Zurich said that they wantea to see Clifford Irving, the author of the pruported autobiography of Howard llughes. and Irving's wife in connection with the investigation into the theft of $650,000 from McGraw-Hill Inc., the publishers of Irving's hook. The police are looking for the woman who cashed the checks, made out to "H .R. Hughes," that the firm thought it was paying to the industrialist. 
oil campus today 
3: oo..seminar, theodore gaster, various aspects of qumran study over the past 25 years, hayes­healy building. 
7:00-12: oo.. construction, mardi gras, stephan center. 
7:30 & 9: 30--film, the murder of fred hampton, o'laughlin auditorium. 
7:3o.. Jecture, james bostain, mainstream english, carroll hall. 
S:OO.. Jecture, douglas kinsey, discussion of the paintings of orge rouault, o'shag art galleries. 
8: oo.. , alasdair mac intyre, the liberalism of rights and the liberalism of utility, auditorium, galvin life sciences canter. 
nd-smc 




Minority aid announcentent 
A major announcement con­cerning the funding of minority scholarships will be made sometime in the near future, according to University Provost Hev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. 
Prior to this time a major source of funds for minority scholarships has been the receipts from the 1970 and 1971 Cotton Bowl games. Due to Notre Dame's failure to attend a postseason bowl Fr. Burtchaell's announcement is expected to detail a new source of funds for scholarships. 
Presently minority students compose less than 4 percent of Notre Dame's student body, and, 
on the average, receive $2,100 in 
financial aid, yearly. 
The question of scholarship aid 
figures prominently in the 
recruiting of minority students, 
according to Carl Ellison, head of 
the Recruitment Action Program 
<RAP>. 

"It's foolish to recruit unless there is money available for the students," Ellison claimed. 
The prevailing practice among top universities, according to informed sources, is to offer a scholarship package to minority applicants in hopes of attracting them to that particular in­stitution. Notre Dame's package is .. not competitive with other colleges, sources claim, and it is expected the forthcoming ad­ministration announcement will bring our aid package more into line with other schools. 
law School Interviews Univ. Of Akron 
Sign-ups ­Outside 101 O'Shag 
NO Pre-law Society 
Hey! Do You Know That You Don't Have To Be 21 To Play Pool At 



FRANKIE'S? 
Everyday Specials -Ocean Perch $1.25 -1 0 oz. Rib-Eye Steak -1h Breasted Chicken  $1.50 $1.50  
Includes Tureen Soup, Salad,  

Bread, Butter And Coffee 
~==========~====~================~ 
THE ARMY ROTC TWO-YEAR PROGRAM 
ATfENTION SOPHOMORES 
Can you use $100 per month extra allowance during your Junior and Senior Years? The Army ROTC 
Two-Year Program provides $100 every month for ten months of the school year, free uniforms and the opportunity to earn a commission as a second lieutenant in the United States Army. If you are interest­ed apply now. The successful applicant will attend a six-week summer camp (in lieu of the first two years of ROTC} and then participate in Army ROTC during his junior and senior years. Upon completion of ROTC and attainment of a bachelor's degree he will be commissioned as a second lieutenant in the 
United States Army Reserve. 
The newly commissioned officer may attend graduate school prior to reporting for duty. Dependent on the needs of the Army he may serve two years act1ve duty for four years in the Reserves, or three to six months active duty followed by seven and a half years in the Reserves. 
ROTC training pays off now and will pay off later as evidenced by the following statistics: 
Percentage of all Male College Graduates in U.S. Having Had ROTC 4% 
Percentage of Men Earning Over $100,000 Annually Having Had ROTC 23% 
Percentage of State Governors Having Had ROTC 16% 
Percentage of U.S. Senators Having Had ROTC 24% 
To apply visit Army ROTC. For information call Lieutenant Colonel Lake at 6264 or 6265. 
-~------------------' 
Wednesday, January 26, 1972

Page 4 THE OBSERVER. 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
1-:ditor-in-Chief. Glen S. Corso Assistant Editor Assistant ..:ditor 
T.C. Treanor All successful newspapers are John Abowd
ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend

Business Manager 
anyone or anything if they can help .\dvt••·tising Manager 
Jim Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Busines.s: 283-7471 News: 283-1715 
Some simple rules for next time 
One week, three referendums and a commode load of rhetoric after the issue first came to light, Student Bar Association President Tim Hartzer has his mandate of sorts. One hundred and fifty-three out of a possible four hundred fifty law students voted against the proposed $1.6-million addition to the current law building-approximately one third of the law school and just a shade under one half of the voting body. 
Let us consider , now, the referndum as referendum -divorced entirely from the original question. In an attempt to procure a "significant vote" Hartzer called for three seperate referendums, held two and then combined their totals. 
There is something curiously disconcerting about a power structure which allows its president to create referendums and call them off at will. There is something bitterly ironic when it is the Student Law Association which operates in this manner. 
So at the risk of sounding obvious, we offer these simple laws for operating a referendum to the Student Bar Association, and hope they will give it their sober consideration: 
1. 
When considering O'le issue, it is best to have only one referendum. Two or three is a little gaudy, and perhaps even a touch redundant. 

2. 
If the voter turnout is not acceptable to the various executives, it would be better not to throw the results out. This might save the executives some immediate embarassment, but the long-term effects would probably not be pleasant. 

3. 
If the executives find it necessary to throw the referendum out and have a new one, they ought to actually throw the thing out, and not hold on to it for purposes of adding it to the next day's referendums. 


Finally, 4. If the executives finally decide that they must call off referendums and call off results and add result to result and still lose, they ought not to make vague and meaningless claims of victory or suggest that the loss was due to a lack of understanding. 
Consistency with these simple rules will surely make Mr. Hartzer's next foray into electoral politics a trifle more successful. 
My Laundry Card and Me 
:::::::::::=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::Glen Corso 
Did you ever have a run-in with the laundry'? I don't mean some ordinary commonplace run in, like having them lose 8 or 9 pairs of ,;ocks on you, or having them send back your underwear with six or seven perfectly round holes in it; I mean a real head-on-head bruising 
bloody encounter with that delightful appratus known as the laundry l>~1rea cracy. 
It all began rather innocently last semester. I had my roommate pick up my laundry for me the week before the semester was about to Pnd. Somehow, some way. my my laundry card got lost. I remembered my laundry about twenty minutes before I was scheduled to leave, which was about five minutes before the laundry annex in Keenan was scheduled to close. I frantically rushed over there and was politely informed that I would have to get a duplicate card before I could get my laundry. Despite much gnashing of teeth and moaning on my part I was unable to convince the lady that I really wasn't trying to rip off my own laundry and that I needed it, lest I go home in tattered rags. All my pleading was to no avail though, and my trip home was spent in anguish, wondering whether that horrible smC'll that clung to my person was a result of a change in atmospheric conditions or that fact that I hadn't changed in three days. Once home thoughts of laundry and other such nonsensical thoughts about Notre Dame were laid gently to rest in a box in the corner of my room. 
The return to Du Lac was bitter and cold. Mter suffering the ·in­
dignities of registration on Tuesday I marchC'd into the Keenan 
basement, secure in the knowledge that I could, after a whole month, 
collect my own laundry. 
The rules and regulations of the laundry plutocracy stood fast 
..tgainst my second assault, despite my yellow card and newly 
acquired confidence. I did not, I was informed, have the proper card 
needed in order to collect last semester's laundry. I assured the nice 
lady behind the desk that I had not changed identities during the 
Christmas vacation, nor had I cunningly slipped someone else's 
laundry into my bag, in order to cheat and defraud this proud service. 
All was for nought however and I was forced to journey to the laundry 
plant to obtain a replacement card. 
As I rounded the corner coming down from the administration 
building I saw the sign: Students, door number three. Door number 
three, typically enough, was the last door. The absurdity of the entire 
situation enveloped me as I trudged from door number one to door 
number three. Here I was, I thought, walking in front of this stupid 
laundry building, going to collect a stupid card, which I shall only use 
once and then consign to the everlasting reaches of Du Lac's garbage 
dump, forever. 
Upon endering door number three, I was politely informed that I 
would have to go to the office, which issued all replacement cards. 
Curiously enough the office was down by door number one, but door 
number one was locked, no doubt towardoff any and all evil intruders. 
The lady in the office down by door number one was very nice, very 
nice that is until a student tried to open door number one. He was 
standing outside, a rather pathetic figure since it was very cold out, 
knocking and asking to be let in. As I started towards the door I was 
startled by a hiss, not unlike that of a serpent, and the gruttal com­
mand that I should not touch the door. "Let him go around," she 
explained, "the sign says students are supposed to go down to door 
number three." 
I retreated quietly, and watched without comment as she filled out a new laundry card for me. Orange card sagely in hand, I journeyed once more to the basement of Keenan. This time my foray was daz­zingly successful. Not only did I get my laundry, but I excaped without charge. 
Dawn, light and reason have not prevailed however. In seeming retribution for my escaping so easily with my bundle from last semester, I was told the other day, by one of the ladies who inhabit the Keenan basement, that there was something wrong with my bundle and I would have to report to the main plant to pick it up. 
THB O&r.EIW.£It 
Night Editor: Anthony Abowd Compugraphic Manager: Fran Finnegan, mark j. niederkorn Ass't Night Editor: george lund Typist: Debi Gras, Barb Norcross, Mark Lammert Layout: Nic Catrambone Special Guest: Gene Slason Headlines: Chris Sullivan, Don Biancamano ...and a host of others Night Controller: Helen Smudski (watch for this staff on Tuesdays from now on J 
What profound revelation awaits me at the main laundry plant is still a mystery. Perhaps bubonic plague germs have been found among my clothes, or perhaps the laundry lost them and I will now have to fill out forms to get duplicate laundry, only this time I will have to go to door five, or six, or maybe they lost the laundry plant and only I can fill out the proper forms to get a duplicate, or maybe ... 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, January 26, 1972 THE· OBSERVER Page 5 
Eric Andrus 





The Murder of Fred Hampton 

On the morning of December 4, 1969, in 
Chicago, police representing the State's 
Attorney's office of Cook County went to an 
apartment house in order to serve a search 
warrant to a group of nine Black Panthers 
who occupied a dwelling on the first floor. 
The occupants were suspected of 
possessing a small arsenal of unauthorized 
and unregistered weapons. 
The Panthers in the apartment including 
Fred Hampton, the Chairman of the 
Illinois Black Panther Party, and Mark 
Clar, a Panther from Peoria, Illinois. 
At 4:45a.m. a "shootout" commenced, 
one which created an international 
scandal whose repercussions are still 
being felt throughout the United States. 
Killed in what the police described as a 
"gun battle" were Hampton and Clark, 
while four Panthers were critically 
wounded and the remaining three were 
unharmed. One policeman was slightly 
injured. The police had been armed with 
one submachine gun and the numerous 
shotguns, and had surrounded the building 
and occupied nearby rooftops. 
The ensuing uproar over the incident 
gave rise to many conflicting reports 
about what actually did occur that mor­
ning. On CBS television, one policeman 
described three shots fired at him as he 
PnterPd the kitchen, and he pointed out 
three holes in the wall made by · those 
bullets. A photograph in a Chicago 
newspaper showed the same holes and 
daimed that they came from Panther 
Lefty Ruschmann 
gunfire directed at the police. These three holes were later proved to have been made not by bullets, but by nails. 
Although the State's Attorney's Office described the incident as a "gun battle," it was later revealed that the police fired approximately ninety shots, and the Panthers only one. 
State's Attorney Edward Hanrahan (a Notre Dame alumnus) commented on the raid, "We wholeheartedly commend the police officers for their bravery, their remarkable restraint and their discipline in the face of this Black Panther attack as should every decent citizen in our com­munity." (emphasis my own). 
Tonight and tomorrow night, St. Mary's and Notre Dame students will have the opportunity to see a film record of this event. "The Murder of Fred Hampton," by Michael Gray, is a record of Fred !Iampton 's 21st year of life, and an in­vestigation of his death. 
Gray had been filming Hampton for almost a year for a possible television documentary when the killings took place. 



SPEAKING ON SPORTS? 
Critics of American society have said that sports are dominating American life, while ND critics have branded dating here at du lac a big sport. Convergent evolution, see? Well, here's what might happen if dating and sporting ever get too intimately involved ... 
The TV team for this week's Blind Date of the Week are the noted sports an­nouncers Crisp, Dud, Dondy Dan, and Coward. And now, Write On turns them loose CRISP: It's a beautiful day onthis beautiful, historic campus. The tem­perature is around absolute zero, with winds gusting out of the west at Mach 2--a perfect day for riding the shuttle buses. Too bad the TV reception isn't what we'd like it to be, it looks like there's snow on the monitor. DUD: It is snow, amoeba-brain. This is South Bend and it isn't the Fourth of July. Why don't you tell the fans about tonight's contestants, Crisp? CRISP: Our ND contestant is Joe Cool, a freshman auto racing major from Lugnut, Ohio. Joe has impressed the writers thus far this season, even though a compound hangover forced him out of action last weekend. However, Joe says he'll be at 100 percent this time out. According to the national state, he is rated the fourth most efficient gaper in the nation. And his opponent from SMC is Betty Jane Bluenose, an animal husbandry intent from Greenback Acres, Ill. She had an unfortunate personality problem over the summer , but after attending an in­sensitivity session, she got rid of that dreadful personality. And now to Dondy Dan at the site of tonight's action, the Convo Center. DONDY DAN: Well, here inside the Convo, the weather is terrific--no wind and cloudless skies. Probably because I am further south and farther away from the lakes than you, Crisp and Dud ... COWARD: Dondy Dan, the breath of your ignorance is stupefying. DONDY DAN: Howzat again? CRISP: He said you're as sharp as a marble. Now give us the stats, if you can still read your teleprompter. DONDY DAN: Joe Cool has gone on 7 dates, been shot down of 5 for a net loss of 
53 dollars, while his ego has shrunk to the size of a mid-July snowflake in Laredo. And while we're on the subject of snow, let me add that Betty Jane was suspended earlierthis season for conducting a freeze without permission of the President's Pay Board. This winter, during baskeball season, she plans to foul out of the game of life. 
COWARD: Here is Joe Cool, who hinted 
before this game that all he was interested 
in was sex. Is that true? Say that ain't so, 
Joe. 

JOE: That ain't so, Joe. I also think that 
she's got a good body. 

COWARD: And Betty Jane--you said that 
you're planning to change defensive 
strategy at the half. You've played a stiff 
D all night, so why change now? 
BETTY JANE: Yeah, I'm planning to 
wash off my expensive French perfume 
and replace it with a double coat of 
Chemical Mace. 

COWARD: Joe and Betty Jane, this is the 
closest together we've seen you all night. 
CRISP :Time for a message of cosmic 
importance ... 

ANNOUNCER: Are you putting on 
weight? Ready to fight inflation too? Then stop drinking beer and switch to Dreary's, the one beer to have when you're haveing less than one. CRISP: If you think that our exciting first half was exciting, wait til you see the excitement of our exciting second half. First, a gry in section 23 waa busted for indecent exposure--he took off his tie. Then the lead singer for the Jackson Five was electrocuted--that drew the second biggest cheer of the night. And now, let's take a look at the lovely cheerleaders from St. Mary's of the Sticks; aren't they 
beautiful? CRISP: Well, regulation time has ended with neither contestant scoring decisively. So we take you back to Dandy Don at Drafty Hall to cover the exciting "over­time period" at Joe's room. Come in, Dondy. DONDY DAN: We finally got our hidden mike working and have placed it in Joe's varsity jacket, which he borrowed from his roomate to make him look like a big "jock." Crisp and Dud will supply ap­propriate comments from the booth while 
Coward will weigh in with his usual inappropriate ... COWARD: Very funny, Dondy Dan. Hey, keep it quiet, guys, here they come now. Stand by... JOE (in the room): Nice room, I have here, Betty Jane. Here is my corner of the room­-no room for books, just my athletic trophies from high school. That over ther used to be my window, before I ripped it up and put my picture there instead. CRISP: Now, watch the line play. It ought to tell the story of the game. 
---Later--­
BETTY JANE: I hope you get me back in time, Joe, Why I have only 58 minutes until curfew. I might get caught in ice floes crossing the lake. Those woods are crawling with bears, and the sky's falling down, too. Please, get me home. JOE: Those trophies-they're for judo and karate, too. You're always safe with me around. I'm a handsome guy and I think a helluva lot of you. C'mon here ... BETTY JANE: Can I play with your roomate's slide rule? CRISP: No gain on the play ... second down coming. JOE: Can I get ou a drink? An octuple martini? Vodka and Gatorade? 103.2 per cent beer? A Vitalis? BETTY JANE: No, I think I'll have a Coke. A weak one. Also some milk if you have it, it's good for my complexion. CRISP: Loss of two... third and long coming ... watch for the Big One. JOE: But Betty Jane, let me level with you. Can't you see that Hove you? BETTY JANE: Well, uh... DUD: Official time out, with two minutes left in parietals. Remember Joe cannot stop the clock at this point. JOE: But Betty Jane, I spent $12.74 on this date. $6.37 of which is your share. Can't you see I'm rich? Can't you see I'm smart too? See how fast I added up tonight's tab? And I'm damned horny too; I'm a'coming after you!! BETTY JANE: Joe, NO! Help! Security Police! JOE AND CHRIS<together): Security? No way!! 
On the morning of Hampton's death, he rushed to the apartment, which the police had left unguarded, and meticulously filmed each room, each bullet hole, and each bloodstain. He subsequently in­terviewed the surviving Panthers, and paid $20,000 for TV film of the police reenactment of the shooting. 
Gray's film juxtaposes the testimony of Hanrahan, who ordered the raid, the police who conducted it, and the eye-witnesses who survived it. The police often con­tradict Hanrahan, and the eyewitnesses and the film of the apartment contradict them both. 
Michael Gray is a former commercial filmmaker who once made Kentucky Fried Chicken commercials to raise money for his own films. He spent$100,000 on the "Murder of Fred Hampton", but may never recover his investment, since no major U.S. film distributor will touch it because of its controversial nature. The movie, however, was a hit at last year's Cannes Film Festival. 
Newsweek's Arthur Cooper says of Gray's work, ... (the film) is a blistering, provocative documentary ... (it) powerfully demonstrates film's capability as an in­vestigative tool.. .. The movie cries out with urgency and deserves to be seen." 
"The Murder of Fred Hampton" will be shown tonight at 7:30 and 9:30 in O'Laughlin Auditorium and tomorrow night at the Engineering Auditorium at the same times. Admission is free. 
---later--­DUD: Standing by at St. Mary's is Dondy Dan, ready to interview Betty Jane when she returns. Any comments on the out­come, Coward? COWARD: Of course Dud. I knew he couldn't score and I was right. I'm always right, and I don't mind telling you so. DUD:· Uh, right, Howard. And get down there to talk to Joe. He has some parting comments, I believe. COWARD: And here is the dejected Joe Cool, who suffered one of the most humiliating defeats of his embryonic career. Joe? Step up to the mike, Joe. You couldn't come up with the Big Ones, you were beaten rather handily--when did you know you were finished? JOE: When she went for the slide rule in my room. What would an El. Ed. major want with that thing? COWARD: See you at the Rock tomorrow, working out your frustrations as usual. JOE: !!?&?!+!() CRISP: And, now, over to Dondy Dan at SMC. DONDY DAN: Betty Jane, congratulations on another defensive gem. What made you as good as you are today? BETTY JANE: I guess it's working as a telephone operator over the summer. They used to fine me for displaying warmth and sensitivity; great practice for the long seasons at du lac. DONDY DON: One final question. How would you rate Joe Cool as compared to other opponents this year? 
BETTY JANE: Well, he was a lot more physical than, say, Fred Schmudd, the tennis player. But he didn't have the moves and called avery uninspired game to boot. He didn't for example, show me an odd-man line, like "I'm going homosexual, and only you can cure me." DONDY DAN: Have you plans to schedule him again in the near future? BETTY JANE: Perhaps we'll arrange a home and home for 1975 and 1978. But I'd advise him not to get his hopes up too high. I mean he's a nice kid, but... CHIS! : I hate to cut in, but we have ten minutes of boring credits to get out of the wa before signing off. So before I say good­bye, the final score was ... 
Wednesday, January 26, 1972

Page 6. THE OBSERVER 
Suit filed against Nixon administration 


by Ben A. Franklin <c< 1972 New York Times First of a two part series. 
Washington, Jan. 24--Ralph Nader accused the Nixon ad­ministration in a lawsuit filed here today of "improperly and unlawfully" raising the federal price support level for milk in return for $322,500 in con­tributions from the dairy in­dustry to various Republican campaign committees. 
the suit said that most of the receiving committees had been created covertly, with opaque or 
VP applications open 
by Don Ruane ­

Observer Campus Editor 
Any potential vice presidents for student affairs hiding in the bushes the next two weeks are open game for Fr. James J. McGrath, head of the search committee to replace retiring Fr. Thomas E. Blantz. 
"I shall go beat the bush for those men who haven't applied that I think should," Fr. McGrath said Tuesday. 
As of yesterday, the committee had received names of five candidates (three Holy Cross priets, two laymen), all of whom are in touch with campus affairs. However, Fr. McGrath would not reveal their names, claiming a "compromising situation" because the applicants are employed and the publicity would impair their status, especially if they do not secure this job. 
ObsPrver Insight 
The committee met with provost Rev. James T. Burt­chaell January 20 for a ''ground laying session," and is not ex­pected to meet again for about two weeks. In the mean time l<"r. McGrath plans to make several contacts, and will collect ap­plications through the mail. 
The potential veep should be capable of "juggling" lower level administrative personnel in the student affairs office, according to the chairman. 
Plans call for reconstruction of the office, Fr. McGrath said, so that the vice-president is free for student affairs more important than worrying about the laundry and vending machines. 
Committee member John Barkett said the group is "combing the Holy Cross priests" for a replacement, but will "sweep the country" for other candidates. 
"We're not leaving anyone out. 
We're shooting for the best, and if the best is a Holy Cross priest, that is fine with me. this is too crucial a thing to let anyone slip by." the SBP added. 
Barkett said his only complaint is that the committee was ap­pointed so late<December). The committee had not assembled until it met last week with the provost. 
If the transition of the new vice president from his former em­ployment is to be satisfactory, he should be appointed by mid­summer. The student affairs office serves the campus ministry; the dean of students; student residence and rectors; student government; in­ternational students; several buildings; the Infirmary; psychological services; and several student organizations <excluding the Observer) through the assistant vice president. 
From another viewpoint the SBP called the committee an indicator that the University is "moving in the right direction." 
"The fact that a student is even on it is a change in past policy," he said Tuesday, adding that Notre Dame is not used to thinking in this way, in terms of student viewpoints. 
After the committee has selected its choice, the nominee's name will be given to the university president for sub­mission to the board of trustees for approval. 
Fr. McGrath said the com­mittee, appointed by Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, is meant to represent a broad spectrrum. Its members include two faculty members, a student, two administrators, a dean, and the chairman of the Ladies of Notre 
Dame  Faculty-Student  com­ 
mittee.  
When  that  chairman,  Mrs.  

Jeanne Swartz, was asked why she was selected, her reply was, "I really don't know the answer to that question." 
Spring Semester STU DENT SPECIAL 
15" Color TV 
2.1 Cubic Ft. Refrigerator 

Both for only $29.95 -month less than $1 .00 a day 
19"Biack & White TV 
2.1 Cubic Ft. Refrig Both for only $19.95 -month less than$.66 a day 
Rented Separately 
15" Color TV $24.50 -month 
19" Black & White TV $14.50 -month 
2.1 Cubic Ft. Refrig $7.~0 -month 
Only Monthly Rentals I 0% Discount For Full Semester Payment 
2022 South Bend Ave. 272-5483 

December, alone--and Muskie $3,936 in 1970. 
Exhibits attached to the Nad,er complaint asserted that Hum­phery and Muskie, together with 11 other Senators (all but one of them--Ted Stevens of Alaska­
Democrats)  and  47  represen­ 
tatives  (all  but  14  of  them  
Democrats)  who  had  receivted  

contributions from the milkmen, had rushed last March to sponsor a spate of bills in Congress at the dairy industry's request that would have raised the milk subsidy. 
But the brunt of the accusations in the Nader suit fell upon tlile Republican administration. The suit said that the Ad­ministrration's decisiolli-­"influenced" by the dairy con­tributions--had raised the cost of milk products to consumers by misleading names, to bank the milk money "for the renomination and or re-€lection of the incumbent president, Richard M. Nixon." 
The Nader suit charged that the price support increase--a reversal that followed by two weeks an agriculture department decision not to raise the milk subsidy--had been granted illegally in March, 1971, for "extraneous" political reasons and under "improper and unlawful influences." 
The crucial "influence," which preceded by days or weeks a sudden outpouring of nearly one third of a million dollars in dairy industry contributions to the Republicans, was described in the suit as a White House meeting on March 23 at which President Nixon and former Secretary of 
met with a dozen dairy leaders. 
The suit asked the U.S. District court here to rescind the milk support increase as motivated for partisan financial gain and therefore "null and void." 
As a result of the milk price increase, Nader's formal com­plaint said, committees to finance the 1972 nixon campaign were subsequently made $322,500 richer by the contributions fo three national dairy marketing cooperatives. 
Until then, the suit said, the dairy contributions had been going chiefly to influential Democrats, including Senators Hubert H. Humphrey of Min­nesota nnd Edmund S. Muskie of Maine, both contenders for the presidency this year. umphery was disclosed to have received $15,625 in 1970 and 1971 from the 

Take a free Speed Reading Lesson on Evelyn Wood 
In just one exciting Speed Reading Lesson you too can increase your reading and study speed (with no loss in comprehen­sion) 50 to 100%-FREE. At the Free Speed Reading Lesson you will learn how the Evelyn Wood course handles difficult text book material. How it improves memory and concentration. And, how it makes reading a pleasure instead of a chore. Attend a Free Speed Reading Les­son. It could change your life too! 
Over 500,000 graduates including 
Dean Amstead, University of TexaS Rear Admiral Ashworth Birch Bayh, U.S. Congress McGeorges Bundy, JFK Cabinet Clark Clifford, LBJ Cabinet Superintendent Estes, St. Louis Dean Gates, Beaver College John Glenn, Astronaut 
S. 1. Hayakawa, San Francisco State Charlton Heston Mrs. Jacob Javltts Herman Jones, U.S. District Judge Edward Kennedy, U.S. Congress Burt Lancaster George McGovern, U.S. Congress Marshall McLuhan Dr. Frank Moya, Miami University William Proxmlre, U.S. Congress Dr. Margaret Ratz, Principia College George Segal Judge Juanita Kldd Stout Ben Willlnghan, Genesco President 
Success Warranty! 

98% success! Anyone who falls to Improve at least 3 times receives a lull tuition refund I Lifetime Membership 
If you want further improvement in your speed of reading, study, comprehension, and recall skill you can, as a Reading Dynamics graduate, repeat the course at any time. 
.----Free Speed Reading Lessons------. 
A'I.I'END 
A FREE SPEED READING LESSON. INCREASE YOUR READING SPEED 50 TO 
100% ON THE SPOT. 

TODAY 
& 

TOMORROW 

6&8PM 

Center for Continuing Education 
Across from The Morris Inn 
e Ew.~tp~1110Mt BEADING DYNAMICS 

Wednesday, January 26, 1972 
THE OBSERVER Page 7 






Cheerleaders happy_a}J_!)~t title 
by E.J. Kinkopf floor off the Convocation Center began their rating system five ~-;;;;:; i'i.,•';iiii;;; The Notre Dame cheerleaders just yet. years ago. 
wl.'re named the top cheerleading They \:ere bac~. at w~rk "T~ere ar~ teaf!ls". s~~d co-unit in the country, and Rooney Sunday mght practtcm~, trymg captam Kevm Chismi~e, that ~·railey was picked as one of six to make perfect the routmes t~at have three or four advisors t~at All-American cheerleaders by won them the number one title help _out. Some scho?ls even give the International Cheerleading ovl'r 259 other squads with NCAA e~edit for cheerle~dmg. Purd~e L' d t· 1 st eek credentials. g1ves scholarships to their 
,. oun a JOn a w . P. d M· h · d 
But the Irish sis-boom-bah'ers The collective honor came as a squa .s, _an tiC ~gan raws arpn't about to donate their porn-complete surprise to the team, fro~ their gy~nasttc_ teams ~or poms and "rumperstickers" to m<'ntioned in the rankings for the their cheerleadmg umts. Were the trophy case on the second first time since the Foundation more hke a_ club here. Yeah, we 
were surpnsed." 
"I was amazed that we won" Missy McCrary, the female co­captain added, "because it was almost as if they rated an amateur team over a professional one. We don't have the professional choreographers or any outside help that other schools have. "• 
The Irish squad was nominated as one of the 40 schools eligible for the top spot last September by the Universal Studios­Ultrabright-Colgate-Palmolive sponsored competition. 
Two representatives came to a football game last fall and ob­served the cheerleaders in ac­tion, and evidently they were duly impressed. 
And if one considers the co-ed.lnnior Hoom•y Fntiley becamr Notre Dame's first female All­Squad's award a boost for co-Tht• 1\:otn• DllllH' cheerleading squad was voted the best in the\mt'rit-an "ht•n sht• was named to the All-Amerie an Cheerleading education, then women's lib t·mmh·~· last Wl'ek by the International Cheerleading Foundation.
Sqnad h~· llw lntt'rnational Cheerleading Foundation. 
received its biggest push since "We watch other squads on TV "Sometimes you'll be cheering Germaine Greer wrote The and come up with ideas for dif-your lungs out and nobody'll be FNnale Eunich and Gloria ferent formations," said Kevin saying anything" Rooney said. Steinem burnt her bra and explaining the origin of the dif-"We have to try and play upon donnned aviator rims, when ferent sets. "We have some the emotions of the crowd, like
The Irish Eye 
Rooney Frailey was named the really good amatuer during a crucial part of a game. first female All-American in choreographers like Missy, and But I think the attitude towards Notre Dame history. that's a great help. And Mary the cheerleaders has improved.
~r . b . 
============================:=====::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: Sacrz1 zczng ut scorz ng "The squad nominated me as Kraft who has worked in a It sure is better now towards the the individual candidate last cheerleader clinic for the past girls. Before everyone just
According to Irish hockey coach "Lefty" Smith, Paul Regan has three in looked at us were little
fall", Rooney said. "At the end of summers Michigan like we hPPn making sacrific<'s Pver since his freshman year at Notre Dame. 
November I was notified that I comes up with new mounts and statues and went ooooohhh." 
"llis first two vears, Paul had to center for our second and third was a finalist, and the Thursday ideas." The Irish cheerleaders will belinps and. as a result. he didn't get as much publicity as some of our before the end of Christmas 1 But it hasn't been all glory and flown to Los Angeles for a fourotlwr playPrs." Smith Pxplains. "This year, we moved Paul from vacation I received a call from cheesecake for the Irish day vacation on March 22 as thecmtPr to Jpft wing but he never questioned the move or complained Kansas where the Foundation is cheerleaders. They've been prize for being named the top unit about it. liP was willing to sacrifice for the good of the team." 
located." under the gun from the Irish fans in the country.
Looking at th<' season's statistics, there's no doubt that the Irish "This man was on the phone since they broke with tradition havp IwnPfited from Regan's team play. The Scarborough, Ont., and he asked me if I'd like to go to and went co-ed three years ago. There they'll be feted at a junior has hP<•n making opposing goalies the sacrificial lambs of his Los Angeles, My immediate Notre Dame presents a unique luncheon and a banquet and will switch to th£' left side by scoring at a team-leading pace. His 22 goals answere was 'with who', then he situation as far as spirit goes. take part in a cheer leading clinic and :!7 points arc tops on the club. explained to me that I had been Before girls were incorporated, as well as receiving a tour of 
"I'd rather play center," Regan says, "because I've played there all chosen as one of six individual the cheerleaders were there Universal Studios. mv lif<' and I fpel more confortable there. You have to be more cheerleaders, four of which are because if you had football and Rooney will be honored as one di~ciplirwd when you play the wing, but I don't mind playing there." girls, named to the All-American basketball teams, well you had to of the top individual cheerleaders 
As a cPnter. Paul was third in team scoring the past two seasons, cheerleading squad. Sure I was have cheerleaders. Once the at that same banquet.
recording 27 goals and 47 points as a freshman and 12 goals and 34 surprised." selected "Smic chicks" donnned But the honor means more topoints last yPar. With 12 games still remaining on the schedule, Regan But the honors did not come their blue jumpers the the cheerleaders than the glorysl'Pms assurPd of surpassing his first-year scoring totals. 
from publicity and national cheerleaders were finally and the trip to L.A. The H1•gan had problems scoring early in the year and although he didn't exposure alone, although that did noticed. although the response recognition holds the promise of a gd his first goal until the sixth game of the season, it came at a most help. The squad puts in a lot of was less than positive. better backing from both the opportunt' time. Paul's overtime tally enabled the Irish to defeat time and work perfecting their "Sure we still hear a lot of students and the University.
1\lichigan TPch !i-5 at the ACC last November 27 and salvage a split in routines and coming up with new griping," Kevin said. "We'll be The cheerleaders receive no .111 Pight point sprics with the Huskies. 
sets. standing at a basketball game monetary assistance from theSine<' then. Hegan has been rolling along at a better than a goal-a­"We begin practicing right and hear someone behind us yell University budget. The awayganw dip. 
after Easter, after the new siddown goddammit. And even games they do go to are financed
"Skating on the same line with John (Noble) has helped my scoring captains are Kevin I some unkind pockets.
elected," at lunch hear out of their own Theyquite a hit." Hegan says. "He passes naturally to his left and, with his said. Then we practice twice a remarks about the squad. Kids work hard and make do withoutstit·khandling abilities, he has a knack of finding the open man." 
week until the end of the gripe because we don't do any outside help or assistance.
H1•gan and Noble were teammates at St. Michaels College Prep in semester. When we return in the enough, and then they gripe "It looks easier than it really
Toronto. Ontario. but the pair never skated on the same line until this fall we three because much. is" Missy said.
practice times a we do too The 
Sl':tson. 
week until the first game, and response hasn't been completely A more enthusiastic responseWhile at St. Mike's. H<'gan was named the outstanding player in the then we go back to practicing negative however. We get lots of from the Irish fans could make it Toronto mPtropolitan Junior B League and it was Regan's outstanding twice a week." compliments too." a lot easier . 
. Junior I! play that attracted coach Smith, who keeps a sharp eye out for promising talPnt. "We knew that Paul would be an outstanding h()(·key playPr." Smith comments. "He didn't get in the limelight 

Wrestlers nip Chi. Circle, 24-22 
nHJch his first two years but now he has a chance to come into his own." by "Lefty" Ruschmann by virtue of a takedown. Chicago Baron, s-o. An opening-period"Paul has r<'al good hockey knowledge," Smith praises. "He's a retaliated in the 125-pound takedown provided all the
Paced by heavyweight Mike nec­
good skat<'r. dPceptively fast. he keeps his head up and he's probably match, however, when Joe cessary scoring.
Fanning's eleventh straight pin, 
tlw most accurate shooter on the team. We have a great deal of Sipriut built up a 7-3 lead during Chicago's 167-pound Geza Vella 
the Notre Dame wrestling squad 
rl'spPel for Paul." the first period and pinned Mike outmuscled his Irish counterpart, 
came from behind last night to
I lpposing tPams also have a healthy respect for Regan's abilities. Martin at 3:25. Rich Gilloon, 14-3. Leading 4-3 at
post a 24-22 win over the
Itl' made them aware of his scoring talents when, as a freshman, he Two Chicago decisions resulted the end of one, Vella posted a
University of Illinois at Chicago
st'! a Notre Dam£' record by scoring goals in eight consecutive games. in a 12-6 lead for the visitors. takedown and predicament to
Circle last night in the Convo.
And opposing playprs are also fully aware that Regan is not one to be First, 134-pound Joe Fernandez open up a commanding lead. The 
The 265-pound freshman, whom 
pusht•d around on the ice. overcame Steve Moylan, 9-2, with Circle then appeared to have the A lack of aggressiveness has never been one of Paul's problems. He Irish coach Terry Mather calls the worst damage coming in the Irish in deep trouble when 177­holds Notre Dam<' records for the most penalties drawn in a career, 74, "one of the most outstanding middle period. An escape and pound Allen Linnerud pinned
heavyweights we've had at Notre
.11Id pl'nalty minutes. 173. takedown broke a two-all tie; a Notre Dame's Bill Moran at 4:33. · ''I'm ovpr-agggressive at times," Regan admits, "But I think it's Dame," made it look easy as he near-fall and time advantage Trailing 22-12, the Irish needed lll'tt<'r to play that way. That's the way I am, it's too late to change my rolled up an S-0 lead over Joe dPcided the contest in the final back-to-back pins to win the
Kielbasa before pinning him at
stviP now." period. match. Mike Kemp obliged,
!i: 49 to assure his team the vic­thl' Irish s<'<'k to lwgin their playoff drive. tory. (Each pin by Fanning Bramble squeezed past Leroy pin 190-pound John Katsis a 
·HPgan's aggressiveness will com£' in handy in the next six weeks as In the 150-pounder, Curt breaking up a scoreless bout to 
breaks his own school record, the
"Things looked rough for us before the weekend," Regan says, "We Mavas for a 1-0 Irish decision. A minute into the second period.
previous mark being eight pins). 
kn<'w that we needed those two wins at Minnesota. Now that we've got p<'n.alty for stalling in the middle Mike Fanning finished with his tlwm. wt•'re looking forward to the remainder of the season." Notre Dame took a quick 6-0 stanza was all Bramble needed. reeord setting pin to assure coach 
tf l!l'gan continues his fine play and the rest of the Irish con­lead as reserve liS-pounder Tom Ken Hyan drew the Irish even Mather his seventh triumph of sisll'ntly play up to their potential. the rest of the year should be most <:arritty pinned Choy Moy at 3:30 once again at 12-all, scoring in th£' season, exceeding last year's c·njoyahl<' !'or Notre Dame hockey fans. atkr picking up a 2-0 advantage l'V<'ry period to shut out Dave total of six. 


Wednesday, January 26, 1972 

a THE OBSERVER 
PROOF


Administration sued 
OPEN 


continued from page 6 
millions of dollars a year. 
The additional, indirect cost to taxpayers through greater government milk subsidy payments to the dairy farmers who financed the Republican campaign gifts, was estimated in the suit to be likely to reach $126.2-million annually by June 30 of this year. 
Also likely to go up, the Nader suit suggested, were further large donations to Republicans from the three dairy industry "political education" trusts named in the complaint. As of Jan. 1, they were said to have more than $2.4-millio on hand and ready to disburse to cam­paign treasuries. 
The defendants were nominally Secretary of Agriculture Earl H. Butz and the Commodity Credit corp, an agency of the Agriculture Dept. which ad­ministers farm price support probrams by buying com­modities at an administratively-fixed "floor" or support price, thus establishing the lower limit of prices received by farmers. The secretary fixes the floor price. 
Butz, who did not take office until last Dec. 2, was sued in his capacity as secretary; he was not alleged to have been a party to the "improper influences" described in the suit. Hardin resigned under White House 1)ressure last Nov. 11. 
'rhe real defendayst--named or implicated in the allegations of 
Officials of the dairy co-ops also either refused to comment or failed to return repeated requests for a response to Nader's charges. 
Also attacked in the suit was the entire, often devious and sometimes absurdly deceptive system of campaign financing. It was this system that the suit implied had brought about the situation of "improper and unlawful influences" on govern­
ment of which Nader com­
plained. 

industry lobbyists had failed to ~et legislation for a price support mcrease through Congress with smaller dom,:ions, chiefly to the Democrats who control Congress. 
nader's lengthy complaint or in detailed exhibits attached to were Nixon; former Sec. Hardin, who was alleged to have reversed himself and raised the milk support level after joining in the White House meeting between the President and the c tributing dairymen; v members of Congress, Democrats, and the three largest dairy cooperatives. 
Reached in St. Louis, where is now the board chairman of Ralston Purina Company, said, "If you're in court you don comment. I just won't discuss it.' 
Second part tomorrow 
Nader endorses McGovern 


• 
by Paul Hope 

<(') I!In Washington Star 
Washington -Jan. 25 -Con­sumer advocate Ralph Nader put his stamp of approval today on the candidacy of Sen. George S. McGovern. But he said he would take no active part in partisan politics during the 1972 election. 
Nader's comments on presidential candidates came at a "People's State of the Union" presentation in which he and 10 other speakers blasted the Nixon Administration. Asked by newsmen who among the Democratic candidates would be an improvement over President Nixon, Nader said: "McGovern would be an improvement." Asked about the Democratic front-runner, Sen. EdmundS. Muskie, he said: "I don't think generally that Muskie would be an improvement over Nixon." Pressed about other candidates, he said that of the announced Democrats, he saw only McGovern as an im­provement. 
Muskie meanwhile was picking up an important endorsement in Pennsylvania. Gov. Milton J. Shapp came out for him and boosted Muskie's prospects of gaining a big share of the state's 182 convention delegates. 
"As president, he will help us restore our faith in ourselves," 
OF AGE

The suit said that the dairy industry gifts of $322,500 to Hepublican finance committees had been made only after milk·~----• 
Ralph Nader gives Presidential candidate George McGovern his stamp of 
approval. 

Shapp said, adding that Muskie "is the candidate that most party leaders, officeholders and rank­and-file Democrats wish to head the ticket." 
Nader's comments about McGovern represented his close.st venture into partisan politics. He said today that a distinction must be made "between formal politics and citizen action." "I think some people have to step back from politics ... and not be beholden to the structure of any party," he said. 
He listed two reasons why he thought McGovern would be an improvement over Nixon: 

"He really means what he says about foreign Policy, particularly armaments ... He has an em­pathy about underdeveloped countries ...Domestically, he has related to the poor." 
Of Nixon, Nader said: "It is clear that the President spends 10 times more effort and en­thusiasm watching football than on consumer protection." 
t:be 
nrsneJI 
UJOr<lD 
Of 
.f=OrJ'tOSJI 
Mardi Gras '72 

mardi gras
. .-. 
IS coming ... 
Free Aluminum Cassette Library 
WHEN YOU BUY THREE MEMOREX 
C -90 Cassettes 
at our sale price 
$2.87 






t\.Ud\0 Sp£C\llJStS
sa1es an& ser'J\cc 
3\0 nm\c~\g3n 1.31-\b\\ 

HIS SPECIAliTY WAS SEXOLOGY HIS PATIENTS WERE NYMPHS HIS HOSPITAL WAS THE STRANGE 
IN THE WORlD 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
POETRY WANTED for An­thology. Include stamped en­velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California, 90021. 
Urgently want HOCKEY SKATES, size 912, 10, 101·2; also want BICYCLE, Earl 6863, 721 Grace. 
Please, would anyone like to EXCHANGE STAMPS with: Ross N. Dean, 15 Cleary Street, Lower Hutt, NEW ZEALAND. 
Need ride to Cincinnati, Friday January 28. Call 5124. 
Desparately need ride to Dayton Friday Jan. 28. Will share ex­penses. Ask for Kathy 5777. 
STUDENTS WANTED for small technical school. Curriculum ECPD accredited. Major in 9 fields of drafting, 2 fields of Civil and Electronics. A.S. Degree. 
Industry recruits on our campus. Transfers accepted February 14th through 21st. Institute of Drafting and Technology, Morrison, 
Illinois, 61270. 

Wanted: A good home for a pedigreed cocker spaniel. Call 6818 anytime. 
PERSONALS 
I have just broken my record of 4 Dainty Maid chocolate chip cookies. Recently witnesses have seen 13 animal crackers enter my mouth. I owe it all to good livin and qood Iovin. 
Cookie Man 
Celine: Beware!  
Demonstrations, arrests in Rhodecivil wars in  shootings sia; years Angola  and long and  

Mozambique. Coups here, flareups there. Never has the dark continent been in such upheaval while cloaked with the veneer of Christianity and Western civilization. Why? 
FOR SALE 
SONY TC252D reel-to reel tape deck. PERFECT condition, virtually brand new. 283-8223. 
'65 Pontiac Cata I ina, 383-VB, automatic, power steering, radio, inspected. Best offer. Call 233 8855 after 5 pm. 
Parts and Accessories for Im­ported cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 272-7187. 
All recordings (ever done) by: Peter, Paul & Mary, Beatles, Stones, Dylan, Baez. New copies. 
8125. 
LOST 
St. John's H.S. ring. Before vacation. Initials: E.J. w. E.J. 8249. 
Pair of green gloves on SMC campus Call 4770. 
Lost· Female golden retriever. Medium large, answers to Shannon. If you have any in­formation concerning this dog, call 233-0042. Reward. 
FOUND 
Found: Girl's gloves at the Knights of Columbus. Please claim. 
NOTICES 
OVERSEAS JOBS FOR STUDENTS Australia, Europe, S. America, Africa, Etc. All professions and occupations, $700 to $3,000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free in­formation Write, Jobs Overseas, Dept. F2, Box 15071, San Diego, CA 92115. 
Need typing done??? Will do typing for reasonable rates and on short notice-don't waste time pecking away Call Chip at 8256. 
AD RATES 
Words 1da. 2da. 3da. 4da. Sda. 
1-IO .65 :ts1.fs 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 -i.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 







