On the Inside 
calendar proposals ... p. 4 a look at Barlow ... p. 5 smc parents views ... p. 6 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community March 14, 1972
Vol. VI, No. 99 
Futur~ president at P-ress conference 
Henry lists 
by Ann Therese Darin Campus Editor 
Incorporation of St. Mary's College controlled by laymen ranks high on new SMC president Edward Henry's list of priorities 
At a press conference Tuesday afternoon to officially announce his appointment as first lay president, the 51-year-old Minnesotan stressed the need for reconstruction of the Board of Trustees. and inclusion of students and faculty on the Board. He also emphasized the necessity for the two groups to work on SMC forward planning. . 
Questioned on future cooperation between the 127-year-old college and neighboring Universit of Notre Dame, Henry prophesized, "I am strongly in favor of cooperation. Not only with Notre Dame, but also with other local instutions." He believes other forms of cooperation, specifically a consor-tium of South Bend colleges and universities should be explored. 
Meeting with Burtchaell 
The present director of the Center for Local Government at St. John's University, Collegeville, Minn., has not yet conferred with Notre Dame administrators. However, he hopes to meet with Rev. James Burtchaell, university provost when the Notre Dame administrators heads north to St. John's next month for a speech. 
If merger does occur, Henry thought "organic growth" of both schools and "not the superimposition of a forced pattern of cooperation" would be a prerequisite. 
"I am not set against merger," he continued. "I believe we should stress those attributes which the two in institutions have in common, but keep differentiating characteristics." 
The former St. Cloud Minn mayor enumerated these St. Marv's characteristics as an ability to be responsive'needs and as a small college which creates a better community atmosphere 
In event of merger, Henry revealed he is not 
assured of a job by the Board. While he will "technically not begin" until July 1 (with a self­limitation of a 3-year term), he plans to com­mute between St. Johns and SMC bi-weekly. 

new SMC 

,.:zJJ~J .. 
Dr. Edward Henry, new SMC president stresses lay and student emphasis on~oard of Trustees 
He emphasized any merger action should not be motivated by projected financial cost savings, but on a better quality of education. Diagnosing the problems with the present merger stalemate. Henry said, "The groundwork was not well prepared ... the ramifications were not well explored." 
Several questions from local newsmen con­cerned SMC's continued existence as a non­federally funded college. Henry expressed confidence in his newly-adopted college, which recently disclosed a $694,000 surplus. 
Small college renaissance 
The former St. John's University Vice­President of Development reinforced his op­timism by predicting a small college renaissance in popularity, "Students are asking for a community which is viable. Small colleges, small units, can provide this." 
Before the conference, Henry briefed repor­ters on other results from Sunday's special Board of Trustee session. Besides confirming him as president, trustees also voted to continue merger negotiations with the University of Notre 
Dame. They also declined to appoint a new t Trustee Vice-Chairman, despite William 

priorities 
Cahill's resignation from the po~t tw~ wee~s ago. 
Allegedly Cahill is reconsid~ru1g h1s acb~n 
Introducing Henry, Mort Lmder, press hason for the college during the merger, read the of­ficial staement from Mother Oliv~tte Whele~n, Trustee Chairman, to the St. Mary s commumty. 
Dated March 13, 1972, the two paragraph communique read, "The Board of Trustees of St. Mary's College is happy to announce the appointment of Dr. Edward Henry, President of St. Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana. 
"Dr. Henry will meet with the faculty and professional staff at 4:30 pm in Carroll Hall and with students at 5:30 pm in Stapleton Lounge, Monday March 13." 
Active at St. John's 
Neither Mother Olivette nor Sr. Alma Peter, acting president, whom Henry succeeds, were present at the news ~l''lference. 
A graduate of St. John's in 1943, Dr. Henry attended Harvard Graduate School of Business and received his masters degree in political science, a masters in business administration and a Ph. D. in political science from the University of Chicago. 
He inaugurated the Department of Gover­nement at St. John's in 1954 and served as its chairman until 1969. From 1959 to 1964, Dr. Henry also served as assistant to the president and Director of Development at St. John's. From 1951 to 1954, he was assistant to the president of Mt. St. Scholastica College in Minnesota. 
Dr. Henry's wife, Elizabeth, is a college professor of psychology and counseling. They have nine children. 
Dr. Henry funded and directed the Minnesota Tri-College Honors Program from 1958 to 1967. The first of its kind in the nation, the program provided travel aborad, research, workshop and summer school for faculty members of three colleges, including a state-supported institution. 

Bayh discusses busing, the war, the election 
by Jerry Lutkus 
Observer News Editor 

US Senator Birch Bayh, senior Democratic Senator from Indiana, argued yesterday that "Where it's necessary to supply quality education, then we must bus, but quality education is not supplied by a magical racial ratio." 
Talking and answering questions with a small group in Carroll Hall, Bayh continued that too often it is only "the blacks who are bussed out and that isn't entirely fair, but it doesn't make sense to bus kids to inferior schools." 
Bayh related the schooling problem to deeper problems within the environment. He claimed that Nixon's veto of the day care center bill was "tragic." "The cards are stacked against these kids from birth." he said. 
The problem that is left. then, he continued, is inferior schools. Bayh outlined three alter­natives to inferior schools: 1 l tear them down, 2) refurbish them, or 3) bussing. 
He also identified bussing as "the most volatile issue in the '72 election." YIETI\:\1\1 AI\D THE DRAFT 
The question of the Vietnam war and the draft 
occupied much of Bayh's time and he complied 
that "I firmlv believe that the war will be over 
within a vear. Next vear. the residual force 
protecting the freedom ·of the Vietnamese people 
will be volunteers."' 

In Senate action concerning the war. Bayh 
voted in opposition to the extension of the draft. 
but he said that he isn "t philosophically tied to 
the volunteer army concept. Rather. he felt this 
was an effective means of registering his 
disapproval of Nixon's war policy. 

He did express approval of the present draft 
deferments. "Too often college exemptions 

Sen. Birch Bayh on busing: quality education not supplied by magic racia I ratio. 
become permanent deferments. We cannot exist \l"ith nne class intellectually immune from the most dangerous service to the country," he noted. 
Bayh claimed that support for the volunteer army is so great because it means that >:omebodv else would have to serve. He reminded the students that "a bad war isn't made good by having somebody else's head shot off. .. 
:\IECII.\:\JZ,\TIO:\ OF THE WAR 
The increased mechanization of the war is 
··folly"" according to Bayh. "It makes a bad 
policy politically acceptable." He claimed that 
militarily it is also follly. The American forces 
have shown an inability to use weapons on the ground and they haven't been able to shut off Viet Cng supplies. Bayh contends that we should sit dowrwittt-he North Vietnames::-and tell them: "You release our prisoners, we'll with­draw, let's set a date." 
Nixon's television speech revealing his peace plans was "a line political move," Bayh said, but he continued that Nixon knew one of his con­tingencies would never be met. 
Bayh further emphasized the necessity of ending the war when he stated that "This business of a nice way to conduct war is foolish. The name of the game is to kill and that's reason enough to stop." 
The Gulf of Tonkin resolution which initiated American activity in Vietnam was a "'presidential carte blanche," according to the Indiana Senator. "It wasn't a responsible thing for Congress to do," Bayh claimed. 
He noted that there were only two dissenting votes on the resolution when it appeared before the Senate. "McGovern, Muskie, McCarthy, Hartke ... they all voted for it. I even voted for the crazy thing." 
When questioned about possible amnesty for deserters. Bayh said, "I'll buy it. But only after the war. Not before the war is over." 
ITT HEARII\'GS 
Bayh noted that when the hearings on In­ternational Telephone and Telegraph and Hichard Kleindeinst began, he was "really surpsied." He said he couldn't predict what was going to happen. 
"There is a great deal of circumstantial evidence, hard evidence." But, he added, "where there's smoke, there's gotta be fire." 
(Continued on page 8) 


the observer March 14, 1972
2 
» ! 
.... 
"{~,_)#.;_ .,: 

TWA INTRODUCES THE 1972 GETAWAY* PROGRAM. 
This ad wasn't written to amuse you. It was written to get you to think. 'Ib think of how few school vacations you may have left. 
Before you know it, the 9 to 5 hassle will be starting. So this summer may be your last real chance to travel. 'Ib help you plan your getaway, let us send you our free Getaway* Kit. With the Kit you can get: TWA's Stutelpass.* 
A coupon booklet that gives you a room and continental breakfast in either a guesthouse or student hotel in Europe for only $4.80 a night. 
No advance reservations are needed. 
Also included are free coupons that can be used for bullfights, use of a bicycle, theater tickets, sightseeing and more. TWA's Bed and Breakfast Adventures. 
2-to 7 -day guesthouse packages to any of 50 European cities. Among them Amsterdam, where you can spend 3 days for only $22. And Athens, where 3 nights cost only $16. TWA's Getaway* Card Application. 
With TWA:s Getaway Card, you can charge airfare, hotels, meals, car rentals, Getaway packages and more. And then take up to two years to pay. 
It's the most widely distributed, widely accepted 
airline card in the world. And it's free. TWA's Youth Passport* Card. Ifyou're 12 thru 21, you can get 1/3 off normal domestic coach flights, on a standby basis. Plus discounts on over 20 other airlines in the United States, Canada, and Europe. 
The card also gets you discounts at over 700 shops and hotels around the world. TWA's Getaway* Guidebook. 
A 224-page guidebook highlighting 19 of the most popular cities in the world. 
r-----------------------------,
PLEASE SEND ME 
TW ~YOUTH GETAWAY KIT. 
TWA, P.O. Box 876 
Farmingdale, N.Y. 11735 
Name ____ 
. :;:;-~\, Address.________ 
:~\City 
State ___ ___ Zip ___ _ 
· nr informiltion contact Campus ~--­f ~~j Peter Boyd TWA 
I :\1~.-tra\·el agent I. -~ ISO F,~rley Hall ---·--AA66 • :


L-----------------------------J
:-;t'l'\ il'l· marb 11\\Jll'd t·xclu~iH·I~-h_,. T\\'.-\. 
----------------------------------~----~-.• __ , __ ------··
._,. 
3

March 14, 1972 the observer 
world briefs 
(cl 1972 New York Times 
Paris--In the first tangible follow-up to President Nxon's visit to China the :United States .and Chinese ambassadors to France met Monday i~ P~ns. The Amencan envoy, Arthur K. Watson, described his meeting w1th ambassador Huan Chen as "warm and cordial" and that it was more a e:et-acauainted meeting than one of substance. 
New Delhi--Prime Minister Indira Ghandi's New Congress Party ap­peared to have routed the left Comn: unists in elections to the State Assembly of West Bengal. The Left Communists, who have long dominated the volatile state, had never succeded in bringing stability to the area, but the apparent victory of Mrs. Ghandi's party should-enable it to forfQ_ a stable government. 
Miami--All seven major candidates in the Florida Presidential primary made election-eve appeals for support, but the major debates over which one of them would finish second. Most analysts agreed that Gov. George 
C. Wallace of Alabama would finish first in a primary that has been dominated by the issue of school busing. 
New York--Clifford and Edith Irving pleaded guilty in federal district court to charges of conspiracy in the $750,000 Howard Hughes autobiography case. Two hours later, joined by researcher Richard Suskind, they pleaded guilty to grand larceny and conspiracy charges in State Supreme Court. The Irvings could face up to 13 years in prison and fines totaling $11,000. 
~ 
j
on campus today 
l 
j 
I 
7:00 & 9:00 -movie, Ia strada, engineering auditorium 
7:00-forum, self-determination in rhodesia, 102 law school 
7:30 -lecture, judge john carro, socio-political conditions and liberation movements for puerto ricans, 102 law school. 
South Bend protests train schedule 
by Mike O'Hare 

The Interstate Commerce Commission held public hearings last evening concerning the request of the Chicago South Shore and South Bend Railroad to discontinue 37 passenger trains and reschedule other trains. 
The hearing was held before a large crowd in the auditorium of the South Bend Public Library. Mr. Cross was the ICC examiner at the hearing, with Mr. Karl Van Doren, Public Counselor for the State of Indiana, representing the state. Also present were attorneys representing the city of South Bend and the South Shore Railroad. 
South Bend Mayor Jerry Miller was the first to testify at the hearing. The Mayor stated that in regards to its effect on South Bend, "virtual isolation would result from the new scheduling." Miller also cited "the ecologically desirable effect which the electric trains have on our environment," as opposed to other means of transportation. 
Mr. Bauer, state representative for St. Joseph County and a member of the state assembly's transportation committee, ac­cused the South Shore of wanting to severely cut back on passenger service in order to concentrate upon the more lucrative freight service. He referred to the railroad industry's lobbying for government subsidies for public transportation as "halfhearted when compared to their intense effort in the issue of "full crew repeal." 

Persons from all walks of life testified at the hearing; com­muters to Chicago and Gary, college students, businessmen and homemakers. The hearing is a result of an application of the Chicago South Shore and South Bend Railroad to the ICC for permission to discontinue 37 passenger trains, as well as changes of schedules of certain other trains. The ICC must rule on the application by May 31, 1972. 

10% OFF 
On any mechanical 
work and winterizing: 
For students and 
University Personnel 
Roseland Gulf 402 U.S. 31 North ,Across f.r.Qm Burger King 
CAC 

presents Getting Straight March 19 & 20 
benefit of Sophomore Literary Festival 


LIVE MUSIC WEDNESDAY NIGHT March 1 8 8:00 pm -12 pm FRIDAY ST. PATRICK'S DAY Dance to your favorite Irish tunes GREEN BEER KUBIAK'S TAVERN Stateline  
SOPHOMORES Meet your Maior Night DEPT. OF ECONOMICS Faculty & Students will be on hand to explain the curriculum & answer your questions Thurs. March 16 Lib. lounge 8:00 * Principles of Econ is not a necessary prerequisite for a ma(or  



-.Compliments of afriend 
I i 
T\-olf STROH BREWER'/ CO'.'PANY DETROIT, r·.'ICHIGAN 48226 
.------------------­
the observer March 14, 1972 



THE OBSERVER 
News: 283-1715 Editorial: 283-8661 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Jim Jendryk Editor-in-chief Business Manager 
Don Ruane Bill Bauerle Executive Editor Advertising Manager 

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer,Business: 283-7471 on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Opportunities at St. Mary's 
The past few years have been difficult ones for St. Mary's College. It has been without a permanent president for two years following the death of Msgr. John McGrath; it has been without a clear direction since the alternate suspension and resurection of merger negotiations with the University of Notre Dame. Caught in a situation they could not control, St. Mary's students have been enraged, then resigned, and never sure what would come next. 
As the new president, Dr. Edward Henry has the opportunity to change this. He is not tied to any of the past policies, and brings considerable experience in academic and political life to the job. 
In his press conference yesterday, he defined some of his priorities. Perhaps the most important is restructuring the Board of Trustees, the power of the college, so that it is controlled by lay people. Both faculty and students would be represented on the new board, a long over due idea which wouldn't hurt Notre Dame, either. 
A new governing body at St. Mary'swill go far in openin~ the channels of 
communication that have been strained and broken in the last months. It will grant the school more freedom to ex­periment with new educational ap·· proaches. 
The most pressing issue facing Henry remains the relationship of Notre Dame to St. Mary's. It would be absurd to reverse history, to renounce what cooperation and unity exist, to deny that in many ways, Notre Dame and St. Mary's are inevitably united. With Henry's approach, however, the question is: how close should the schools be? 
Again, Henry has the opportunity to plan and act without the spectre of past decision hanging over him. He has called for a consortium of colleges, which is a realistic proposal in a time of tight money for higher education. It gives several schools the chance to act collectively, if they are willing to cooperate. 
In short, Henry faces opportunities as the new president at St. Mary's. He has the chance to make the school a living entity. 
. Jim McDermott 


Calendar proposals 
Now that over 3400 students have signed a petition disagreeing with the Academie Council's 1972-73 academic calendar, its time to offer some concrete proposals. The two calendars listed below offer a choice of the University approved semester schedules and alternate proposals for each semester. 
In order to make a large sampling of student, faculty and administrative opinion on the calendar proposals, we are asking you to mark your choice of a calendar for each semester. Students give the straw vote ballot to hall presidents. Faculty and administrators mail them, via campus mail, to The 
Observer's LaFortune office. 
Briefly, the rationales behind each of the semester schedules is: 
1. University first semester: designed to follow a current trend towards pre-Labor 
The calendars 

Day openings, provide more first semester class days, provide a longer break at Thanksgiving. 
2. 
Alternate first semester: designed to protect summer jobs that must run until Labor Day, provides for only a five-day Thanksgiving break. --both first semester calendars have 70 class days 

3. 
University second semester: primarily a re-organization of the present second semester schedule redesigned to allow two medium length breaks. 

4. 
Alternate second semester: follows the trend towards early May closings when the first semester begins in August, allows one long mid-semester break. --both second semester calendars have 72 class days. 


John Abowd 
-----student -----faculty 

Proposed Schedules for 1972-73  -----administration  
(Fall Semester 1972)  
1.  
Aug. 29, 30 Aug. 30 Aug. 31 Sept. 4 Sept. s  Orientation Coun­selling Registration for ALL students Classes begin at 8:00 am Labor Day (Classes meet) Latest date for all class changes  Oct. 23 Nov. 1 Nov. 22 Nov. 27 Dec. 8  veteran's Day (Classes meet) All Saint's Day (Classes meet) Classes end at noon (Thanksgiving vacation) Classes resume at 8:00am Feast of the Im­maculate Con­ April 18 April 24 April 25-May 4 April 21•-May 3 May 8  Easter Hoi iday begins after last class Classes resumeat 8:00am Room Reservaions for Fall Semester Advance Registration for Fall Semester Last Class 'Day  
Oct. 9  Columbus Day (Classes meet)  ception meet)  (Classes  May 9-16  Final  Exams 4.  
Oct. 16 Oct. 23  No classes Veteran's Classes meet)  Day  Dec. 14 Dec. 15-21  Last Class Day Final Exams  Jan. 8 Jan. 9  Orientation for NEW students Registration Day  
Nov. 1 Nov. 18-26 Nov. 27 Dec. 8 Dec. 14 Dec. 15-21 Sept. 4,5 Sept. 5 Sept. 6 Setp. 11 Oct. 9  All Saint's Day (Classes meet) Thanksgiving vacation Classes resume at 8:00am Feast of the lm maculate Con­ception (Classes meet) Last Class day Final Exams 2. Orientation Coun selling Registration for all students Classes begin at -8:00am Latest date for all class changes Co 1u m b u.s1 D a Y (Classes meet)  Jan. 15 Jan. 16 Jan. 17 Jan. 22 Feb. 1216 Feb. 19 March 8 Mnrch 9 March 19  (Spring Semester 1973 3. Onentation for NEW students Registration Day Classes begin at 8:00 a·n Latest day for all class changes Enrollment r Reservations for Fall Semester 1973­7~ Washington's Bir­thday (Classes mC'et l Midsemester RC'ports of Deficient Students Midsemester Vacation begins after last class Classes resume at 8:00am  Classes begin at Jan. 10 8:00am Last Day for classJan. 15 changes Enrollment Feb. 12-16 Reservations for Fall Semester Washington's Bir­Feb. 19 thday (Classes meet) Midsemesterrv·,arch 1 Reports of Deficient Students MidsemesterMar. 9 Vacation begins after last class Classes resume atMar. 21 8 ·00 am Room Reservations March 28-April 6 and Advanced Registration for Fall Semester April 22 Easter Apnl 23 No classes April 27 _ Last Class Day April 29-May S Final Exams  


., 
l 
) 
~\ 
.(.' 
\ 
; \ 
t.
··. 
" j
~_)----··

,_,.~,..A~~. ~·· '''-·'"--~ -·· ,..-' 
Notre Kersten Out on the weekend•1umuuumummnm1nmm1muum 
~iophomore bows out 
1111uuu1uuuuuuuunuuuuuuuluuuuulmmmmmmmlml Bob H;ggins 
Tom O'Mara's decision to transfer to Berkeley should make all of us 
think about more than just who his replacement will be at forward next 
season. 
Tom O'Mara is a good basketball player. With a year of experience 
under his belt he could verywellhave been one of the mainstays in a potent 
Irish basketball team next year. But he has chosen to leave. 
The reasons he gave in yesterday's Observer article are more than 
personal reasons. They comprise an accusation against Notre Dame and 
even more so against the society as a whole. 
He called collegiate basketball a job, not a game. For us, as students, it 
may be just a game. Or is it? It was students who pelted Marquette 
coach AI McGuire with hot dogs and assorted rubbish during one game. 
It was students who were involved in the Minnesota-Ohio State fiasco. 
And Bob Lackey of Marquette and Tom Rikker of South Carolina, they're 
both students, yet they slugged it out on National television in January. 
It's more than a game. 
On the administration level it is worse. College basketball is an in­
dustry, competing to a certain extent, with professional basketball for 
talent. A significant portion of the income for College basketball is 
provided by television which is using the power of the dollar to call more 
and more shots concerning who will play who, when and where. And 
ticket prices are no longer set in the good spirit of the old college rivalry. 
If you care to see the NCAA Regionals at Dayton this weekend be 
prepared to pay a scalper up to $50 for a ticket whose face value ia an 
astounding $20? 
It is no wonder that a basketball player feels like an employeee. Just 
ask Tom how many "friends" asked him for tickets to the UCLA game. 
On the subject of Notre Dame specifically, O'Mara called the university 
"something less than an intellectual or academic oasis". The implication 
is that Notre Dame does not stand out among the desert of universities 
that exist around it. Perhaps this is true; perhaps not. More probably, it 
is a matter of opinion. I hope, for Tom's sake, Berkeley is such an oasis, 
or he is liable to spend another year realizing how bad his choice was. 
O'Mara further contended that the university "fails to consider the 
emotional needs of its students." Cases in point here are the perrennial 
rejection of hall self-determination of parietal hours by the Board of 
Trustees and Father Hesburgh's closed-minedness on this is one clear 
cut example of administrative disregard for student's emotional needs. 
Tom has taken issue with what he calls an" attitude of sacrifice-an at­
titude of let's get it over with," which he finds on this campus. I contend 
that this attitude is prevelant anywhere, but may be more widespread 
here. The fact is that a lot of students would rather not study than study, 
but few realize that things may be even more difficult when all the 
studying is over. If Tom can find a more positive attitude at Berkeley he 
should definitely transfer. 
Notre Dame is loosing more than a top-notch forward. Notre Dame is 
loosing a very intelligent and sensitive student who is challenging the 
university to justify its existance in an "over competitive society." Notre 
Dame is being asked to answer to the unhappiness and frustration that 
seem so great at times. And it is being asked to evaluate its athletic 
programs to discover whether the athletics and fans are still the primary 
consideration or if the almighty dollar has assumed the place of honor. 
The sophomore forward's personal criteria is, as he put it, "to do as well as I could out there, and I'm glad I did well enough so that what I'm saying can be taken seriously." I don't think there is any question that he will be taken seriously. The fact that he did so well in a year that he knew would be his last, playing in a sport that he considered a job, shows what a fine athlete Tom O'Mara really is. Yesterday's statement is an indication of the strength of this man's convictions. 
I do not attempt to pass judgment on Tom O'Mara's decision. Rather the fact that someone in his position would transfer for the reasons he gave should make all of us, as members of the University Community re-evaluate our own position here and realize that there are many mor~ Tom O'Maras whose names never reach the newspaper but are just as alone, unhappy or frustrated. 
THE OBSERVER. 
Night Editor: Anthony Abowd Ass't Night Eds: Art Esposito, News Editor: Jerry Lutkus george lund Managing Editor: Joe Abell Layout: Nic Catrambone SMC Editor: Maria Gallagher Headlines: Chris Sullivan Features Editor: Rod Braye Headliner: Don Biancamano Editorial Page Editor: Jim 
Day Editor: Pat Tyrei I McDermott Nite Controller: rick smith Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Typists: Dan Rock, Pat Kenney, 
tam'pus Editor: Ann Therese Dianne Chermside, Debbie Gras, Darin 
Ann Drueker 
---------------~ ~~--­
5

the observ~r
March 14, 1972 
Observer Insight by Ed Ellis 
SBP Kathy Barlow --an evaluation 
Today is the last day that Kathy Barlow will occupy the office of Student Body President of St. Mary's College. She will celebrate her "going out of office" tonight and tomorrow will find a new name, a new face, and a new and vastly different personality sitting in her chair in the basement of Holy Cross Hall. 
The year Kathy Barlow influenced was a tough year, a year of uncertainty, sweeping change, and high melodrama at SMC. Freshman hours were eliminated with no apparent traumatic drop in frosh morality; parietal hours were proposed for the first time at SMC; a new president will sit in Lemans next August when students return, and the impending marriage of SMC to the Golden Dome was halted inches from the altar. Most important of all, the revolution came to St. Mary's in the form of departing Notre Dame diplomas. 
This will be an analysis of the year of Kathy Barlow. We will consider the following five points in discussing her period of leadership: --the potential value of the goals set up by her administration --the realism or appropriateness of the goals --the amount of effort expended on those goals --the intelligent direction of those efforts --results 
There are, of course, other variables to con­sider, and these will be discussed also. GOALS 
The goals of the Barlow Administration were quite admirable, but at times totally out of step with the political reality of the St. Mary's campus. She drove to raise the consciousness level of a student body that had hours, sign-ins, ludicrous liquor regulations, and closed dorms, not to mention a severe identity crisis relating to Notre Dame. 
Better results would have appeared had she knocked off some of the regulations before playing philosophy teacher with 1700 students who could care less. Self-determinism is fine, but we can say with some validity that had Barlow shown people action before coming on strong with her philosophy, her search for cosmic truth would have been more successful. 
An incident illustrating this further is the unmerger crisis. Here Barlow was out hunting for truth, and full disclosure, but occasionally she left a desire for concrete results back in her room along with her celebrated radicalism. 
In another area, Barlow wanted to cooperate with the Notre Dame Student Government, but her irlealism clashed too often with the pragmatism of Notre Dame SBP John Barkett. 
This idealism didn't always clash, however. 
Barlow aimed at uniting students with liberal 
faculty and administrators against the nuns who 
control the College. This was pure pragmatic 
politics with well-conceived goals iln~ excellent execution. It worked well, and the groundwork will serve the next SMC student government well, and could even be studied by Notre Dame politicos. 
In short, Kathy Barlow possessed high idealism and a coherent set of goals for her program. In dealing with students and ad­ministration, however, she often confused the can with the ought. 
EFFORT 

The efforts of the Barlow government to affect the students were strenuous and fairly well thought out, except, of course, for the issue of ND-SMC cooperation. Political reality, however, often inerfered, and Barlow was unable to separate her principles from her concrete programs. For example, she refused to separate the question of parietals from the philosphical principle of self-determination. We all know that nuns can take parietals if disguised carefully. However, "self-determination" is reality intruding into a sanctuary. Had Barlow carefully manipulated the issue, she probably could have achieved soe sort of positive esults, but her misdirection of the student effort leaves 
the  question  to  be  settled  by  tomorrow's  
president.  
RESULTS  

Results, of course, must be our key to judging any outgoing official. v:e can divide most of Barlow's results into three sections: 1) merger, 2l self-determination, and 3) groundwork. q 
As noted, her groundwork deserves the highest of praise. If cultivated carefully by succeeding administrations, this will prove to be a valuable source of student power for years to come. 
Self-determination and the raising of student consciousness get mixed reviews. Some students were turned off by Barlow's efforts, others wre very impressed. The very fact that students at an all-white, middle-class establish­ment school even thought about such mattets seems to be an accomplishment, although it falls short of what might have been done had Kathy Barlow been more of a diplomat. 
f~ 







GRADUATE 
SMC SSP Kathv Barlow: a touqh leac!er in a tough year. 


STUDENTS 
The most importan issue, and the one on which this year's government will be judged, is the unmerger crisis. One result of this was the in­tense student activism of last December. This is good. Another result-though probably indirect ­is increased administrative respect for the student body and its wishes. 
However, Barlow's demands for complete disclosure and remerger will probably never be attained, and many students are going to be hurt. 
One very plausible explanation is that the classical radical Kathy Barlow, faced with her greatest challenge, was not radical enough. Simply, a great non-violent but physical manifestation of student power was needed, but never came. 
At any rate, Barlow's performance during those last weeks of last semester was good, but perhaps not good enough. 
ADDENDA We ought also to consider some qualities of Kathy Barlow the person. First, she gets high grades for sincerity and resoluteness of purpose. Nothing-not even political reality -could shake 
.....
her faith in her philosophy. Though some will 
I
criticize her for such stubborn maintenance of 
belief, we must realize that she has someting 
there that few of her detractors -and few of her 
supporters -can claim. 
Also, we might note that Kathy Barlow is a 
very strong-willed person. She is stubborn and 
vocal, and this led eventually to the disin­
tegration of the working relationship between herself and her vice-president. A strong per­sonality always creates problems, and this was no exception. Hopefully, the benefits she gained for the students and the groundwork shs gained for the next administration will override the ill­effects of the demise of Missy Underman. 
CONCLUSION 
"Call 'em like you see 'em" is always the best anyone can do, a on this score we cannot fault Kathy Barlow. It should be clear from the preceding analysis -brief and insufficient though it may be -that she always made her decisions conscious of the information she had a and the principles she held. Today, she says she would change few of her decisions of the past year. That is the mark of a person who has done her best. Her best may not have been good enough, but it could certainly have been much worse. 
Were the job of SBP a 3-hour course, SBP 
KathY. Barlow would rate a solid B. 
The Observer is bigger 
The GRADUATE STUDENT UNIONBEST BANDS IN TOWN
than it used to be. Recent 
changeover to a new 
announces that NOMINATIONS
-Two Bands a night
publisher increased the size of The Observer. 
-Dancing 6 nights a week 
We can now fit more 

for President
(closed Monday.) -No cover on Tues., Wed., Thurs. 
campus news than ever. 

Vice President
Duke Ellington 
-Open till 2 a.m. "One stop entertainment center" 

Secretary -Treasurer 
i
Thurs April 6 

_..._.. Cocktail Lounge 
are NOW being accepted Bowling Billiards 
NOMINATIONS close MARCH 17. 
Tickets on sale at 
S~u/a 's vl\lite C/u~ 
INTERESTED STUDENTS should 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD

Student Union 
I
contact the GSU office on the
NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 

Ticket Office 
4th Floor Ad. Bldg. or call 8752
616/683-4350 



THE ASSOCIATION Sellers of over 15 million records Tickets on sale March 1 8 Stepan Center 
•

1n the dining halls 8:00 pm $3.50 Bring a blanket All proceeds go to charity FREE door prizes: The Association 
1400 oldies but goldies wiII play two 1 hr. sets 
.. 
the observer March 14, 1972 
The forgotten view: SMC parents 
by Maria Gallaght>r St. Mary's Editor Vv hite the merger controversy rages endlessly, one side stands strangely silent, seldom heard from or sought: the parents' viewpoint. Being removed from the immediate scene of the debate, they are at a disadvantage at either getting information or making themselves heard. Usually, their only expression of 
Obst>rvt'r Insight 

opinion is in the form of an occasional ietter to the administation, or perhaps a third-hand account borne by their daughters. 
This past weekend, however, was Sophomore Parents Weekend at St. Mary's, providing a rare op­portunity for parents to seek their own answers right at the scene of the battle, and for their opinion to be samples. 
A prevalent attitude of "disappointment" was echoed by all parents polled. Most appeared neither bitter not upset, but simply resigned to a decision which seemed beyond their grasp and impossible to reverse. Tired of double-talk and reluctant to accept any more optimistic communiques issued by various sources, one parent sighed, "No official spokesman will tell you what's going on. You don't know how much to believe of what they tell you. And no one seems to agree on anything ... " 
The confused mother was not alone in her sentiment, Edward T. McKiernan agreed saying, "The whole thing should be discussed openly. As things are now, the situation isn't even understandable. More in­formation is definitely necessary and it should be given." 
Not only did parents lament their uninformed position, but complained that they consequently could not help guide their daughters in deciding what 

SMC parents express an attitude of disappointment over merger affairs. 
direction their education would take in the future. 
Some parents felt that the decision not to merge would actually prove beneficial to SMC, or at least have little or no effect. 
"The science department at SMC has always been strong; that's why Linda came here," said Mrs. Ed­ward D. Hotlcamp, whose daughter is a biology major. "The student -faculty ratio of 120 to 7 is much better compared with Notre Dame. I see no reason why SMC shouldn't remain academically strong, if not stronger, by the decision not to merge." 
Questioned about girls in majors not offered at SMC, Mrs. Holtcamp said she felt these girls should be given first preference at Notre Dame in transferring, since they had matriculated here on the pretense of a merger that would strengthen their departments. 
Mrs. Urban John Kampsen went a step farther in her views. 
by Martin Waldron 
1!172 New York Times 
Miami, March 13-A half-dozen would-be Democratic presidents scattered around Florida today in last efforts to win support in the state's presidential primary in whieh every other issue has been lost in the long and loud debate on school busing. 
All seven major candidates returned to populous Miami tonight, the eve of the primary. The election, which state officials say has generated unusual in­terest, will probably result in a record voter turnout. 
Secretary of State Richard Stone, Florida's chief election official, predicted that during the hours when the polls are open tomorrow --from 7 a.m. until 7 
p.m. --1.5 million Democrats and 500,000 Republicans are expected to vote. 

down tonight, there was continued squabbling over who was going to finish second. 
Almost everyone agreed that Alabama Gov. George C. Wallace's segregationist history and his angry denouncing of school busing, had made him the Democratic primary favorite. 
President Nixon is expected to win easily in the Republican primary over Rep. John M. Ash­brook of Ohio, a critic of the t'resident's foreign and domestic policies, and Rep. Paul McCloskey of California, who stopped cam­paigning after getting only 20 percent of the vote in the New Hampshire Primary last week. 
Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota and Sen. Henry M. Jackson of Washington each claimed that he would be second in the Democratic primary despite 
As the campaign be-:<g:o::a:.::n:...:.:to:;....;.;w..:;;in"-d;;:__ru_m_b_li_n-"'g_s_o_f_a_m_a_s_s_iv_e~g_et_ou_t_t_h_,e 
JIM HIBSCHMAN PONTIAC 
301 Lincolnway E. Mishawaka 
255 4771 


ATT'N JUNIOR ACCOUNTING MAJORS The OBSERVER needs a Business Manager for the '72-'73 academic year. 
Interviews will be taken 
hursday March 1 6 1-3 p at the Observer Business Office. 
Applicant must be willing todevote20-2Shours-week Salary $30-week. Any questions call Jim 7471 or233-2341 
"I've seen this happen at other schools; usually the male institution wants to gobble up the smaller girls' school. I think there is room in our society for good women's colleges, and I think St. Mary's is a good one. 
She added, however, that ''In a way, though, it's too had." Most of the parents, however, favored merger and regretted its demise. 
"I myself am in favor of the merger and was sorry to see it fall through. That's all I have to say," com­mented Richard A. Batt. · 
"It would have been the greatest thing they possibly could have pulled off," concurred John Tuohy. "The ones who are caught in between, the sophomores and juniors. will have it rough, but the place will be around for a long time to come." he said. 
Three -parents found fault with the administration and the trustees for the final outcome. 
Pierre C. Lacombe said he was "disappointed that the merger didn't go through, but it's better that it was brought to a head and now its over." 
"St. Mary's will go on." he believes, "but the trustees couldn't have done thir homework very well to have discovered a discrepancy." 
"I'm really sorry about it all, especially after all the publicity, the announcements, and the promises," remarked Mrs. RobertS. Kenney. "Sr. Ama should have gotten up at the banquet last night and talked and answered questions." 
Peter Carella likewise expressed disappointment, and puzzled "It's hard to see how they can do what they did since this year's freshman were guaranteed Notre Dame degrees. 
Donald Cistle, apparently dissatisfied with the merger's fate, summed up his feelings this way: "As far as I'm concerned, the merger is my $4,000 and it's all going to the nuns." 
Busing top issue on Florida primary eve 
vote effort for Sen. Edmund S. Muskie of Maine. 
Muskie, a heavy favorite with Democratic party regulars when the Florida campaign started, has had trouble catching fire in the state and there were some reports that his support had eroded to some degree. 
In addition to organizing car pools for tomorrow, the Muskie forces had a telephome and letter blitz underway this weekend. Computers were feeding hundreds of thousands of pieces of Muskie literature into the mail. 
Before returning to Miami, where he plans to lie in the sun alongside a hotel swimming pool tomorrow, Jackson flew across the state, holding press conferences at the airportsn Tampa, Orlando and Jacksonville as well as Miami. 
Humphrey also took a side trip to Jacksonville where he found his 
Head & Shou ld,ers 
Super Tube 
$1.65 $2.45 mfr's 
sugg. retail 

Notre Dame Boc::>kstore 
scheduled rally was in a park being used as a staging area by cam­paigners of New York Mayor John 
V. Lindsay. 
Most of the belated interest in tomorrow's primary was at­tributed to a "straw vote" on school busing which will be held at the same time as the voting for the presidential candidate. 
HELP WANTED 
NATIONAL PARKS, PRIVATE CAMPS, GUEST RANCHES, AND BEACH RESORTS. Need college students (guys & gals) for next sum­mer's season (1972). Applicants must apply early. For free informa­tion send self-addressed stamped envelope to Opportunity Research, Dept. SJO, Century Bldg., Polson, MT 59860. 
Super lotion 
Next MONTESSORI 
Teacher Training Program 
W. Chicago Ave., Chicago, Ill. 
60622 



,-----------­
7

March 14, 1972 the observer 





Four KO's hilight Bengals action 
by Jim Donaldson enabled him to outpoint the fresh­
and furious bout that concluded the Sports Editor man from Howard Hall. Hudes night's action. consistently stuck his jab through 
Only one defending champion 

the rushes of Frank Graziano and Since there are only four boxers was in action but there was still 
demonstrated his superior boxing entered in the heavyweightplenty of good boxing as Notre classification, the big boys
skill. wereDame's forty-first annual Bengal 
In the 145-pound division, Charlie idle last night.
Bouts got underway with an IS­Morrison bested Larry Gallagher

fight c-ard last night at the ACC. The semi-final bouts in all tenin a free-swinging affair and
Two knockouts and a pair of weight classes are scheduled forHanlon was a TKO winner over
technical knockouts hilighted the Wednesday night at 8 o'clock with Mike Hartigan. Hanlon, a junior
first round of the tourney. Larry the finals slated for Friday.from South Bend, outpunched
Finneran, fighting in the 155-pound Hartigan in the first round and

class, and 165-pound Roland Denver, Wisconsin
began to systematically punish the Chamblee sent their opponents 

Flanner Hall junior in the seconddown for the count while Jerry stanza. Hanlon's powerful blows will represent the Bradley and Tom Hanlon recorded 
dazed Hartigan soon after the bellTKO triumphs in the 125 and 145­

sounded for the second round, and, West in 25th pound divisions, respectively. 
sensing his advantage, Hanlon

Although the outcome of the other carefully measured Hartigan and NCAA ice tourneymatches was decided by the decked him with a hard right, after 
judges, there wasn't much doubt which the referee stopped the bout. 

about the victors as all but one of The top two regular season
Paul Smyth and Mike Sandersthe decisions rendered were finishers in the WCHA, Denver and outpunched their opponents in

unanimous. Wisconsin, will represent the West 
the 150-pound class. Smyth wasn't A pair of freshmen 125-pounders, in the 25th annual NCAA hockeyparticularly sharp but was able toHarry Bush and Buck Beeler, were tournament which starts Thursdayhandle Tom Dixon while Sandersmatched in the first bout on the in the Boston Garden.

card and neither was plagued by overcame an aggressive attack by Two-time Bengal champion Roland Chamblee sends freshman Tom opening night jitters. The two .Jim Burkhart. Strachota down for the count in their 165-pound battle last night as the Denver, the WCHA champion, battled evenly throughout the fight Finneran's knockout of Badin's -11 st annual Bengal Bouts got underway at the ACC. will meet Cornell Thursday while 
Hoger Varela provided the most Wisconsin will take on Boston
but Bush, perhaps given a slight Both 165-pound matches were The last three matches on the
exciting moment in the three 155· University, the ECAC tournament
edge when he scored a third round crowd _pleasers, Charlie Grimm card were light heavyweight bouts 
pound battles. winner and defending national
knockdown, was awarded the win defeatmg Paul Larsen and and Cecil Boot, Dan Brown and champions, on Friday. The con­in the only split decision of the Varela built up a solid lead on Cha_mblee registering a knockout Tom Kain emerged victorious. 
solation game will be playednight. points in the first two rounds and ag~mst Tom Strachota. "The Boot topped Jim Talarico in a fight Saturday afternoon and theThere was no question about the was so confident of his victory that, ~nmm One" and L~rsen engaged that had some good hitting but was championship Saturday night.

winner of the next bout, however. for a while in the second round, he m a bloody battle with the Keenan slowed by too many clineshes. Bradley, a junior and veteran of dropped his hands and taunted Hall soph coming out on top. Denver (27-9) and Wisconsin (27­
two previous Bengal tourneys, Finneran with a grin. The Dor­Strachota, only a freshman, was a Brown was awarded awin over 
game competitor but just couldn't Chuck Reilly in the only B-ll qualified by winning their two­dominated Keenan Hall's Dave chester, Mass., freshman wiped cope with the power and skill of questionable decison of the night. game, total goals, semi-finalO'Keefe, and was a TKO victor. the smile off Varela's face with a Chamblee, a two-time Bengal Brown dominated the first round ot ;:Jlayoff series with Michigan State Bradley sent O'Keefe to the jarring right to the chin in the third champion. The South Bend J·unior the fight and stunned Reilly a and North Dakota, respectively.
canvas with a flurry of punches in round that put Varela down for the The Pioneers outscored the

the first round and was giving the count. put Strachota on the canvas only 25 couple of times with blows to the Spartans, ll-S, and the Badgers 
spunky senior a thrashing in the In the two other 155-pound seconds into the second round. head, but Reilly came back strong
In the 175-pound class, Tim and bloodied Brown during the topped the Fighting Sioux, 6-2­second round before the referee matches, Ken McCandless and Bob 

stopped the fight after 1:20 had Bennett picked up wins. Dempsey outpointed Mike Dituri remaining two rounds. But, Boston University (24-4-1) elapsed. McCandless, a _grad student, and Ken Mabrie proved too much although his face looked messy, downed Cornell (22-5) in the finals 
Jamie "Naked Kahuna" Egan bested law student Jim Lechner for Steve Rogers. Mabrie moved Brown's boxing style was not of the ECAC tourney, 4-1, last and Tom Hudes advanced to the and Stanford's Bennett outslugged well and Rogers was seldom able and he hung on for the win. Kain weekend. In the consolation game, semi-finals of the 135-pound class · the hard punching Craig Brenton. to land a solid blow. bested Frank Flanigan· in a fast New Hampshire beat Harvard, 4-1 
with wins last night. Egan, a Senior Dan Moriarty won the senior, had his hands full with only bout in the 160-pound bracket, Rich Arensberg but his experience topning freshman Tom Wilber. 
Pangborn, Stanford open IH title series tonight 
by Stan Urankar titlists into playoff competition. high hopes of knocking off Pangborn's reigning Interhall Holy Cross and Pangborn won Pangborn's tournament tested



OBSERVER 
basketball champions will try to division championships outright, machine. Shooting extremelydefend their crown this week while Alumni was forced into a well, HC was still in the gamewhen they face Stanford in the playoff with Dillon, emerging after one period, trailing only 17-­
best two-out-of-three final series with a 44-38 victory. Holy Cross 13. However, the defending
SPORTS 
for the campus title. Game one then turned back Alumni, 70-66, champs came to life in the second will be tonight at 7 in the to move into the South Quad quarter to outscore their op­Auxiliary Gym of the ACC. finals against Pangborn. ponents, 21-10, moving into a Each quad sent three league comfortable 38-23 halftime lead. 
In the North, Grace had to fight through a three-way tie for their "We began to control the division crown before facing beards, and ran more in the
John Carroll njps ND ruggers, 7-6 
Flanner. In the semifinal con­second quarter," noted Pete frontation, Grace's outside Farbotko, Pangborn's star junior
by Tom McKenney 
shooting and fast break offense guard and last year's playoff .The Notre Dame rugby team proved too much for Flanner's MVP. "We broke in more and opened its Spring season last slower deliberate game. Grace shot well, and just controlled the 
Saturday against John Carroll, triumphed, 83-75, and went on to game." collecting a 16-6 victory in the B face Stanford in the Quad Holy Cross was able to cut the game and losing in the A game championship. 
margin to seven once in the third finale 7-6. The Cross went into last period, but Pangborn proved tooIn the B game the scoring began Thursday night's conflict with much • and coasted to an easy 69­early in the first half when Jim 53 victory. Tom Ritter ledCarr scored a try for the Irish. 
Pangborn's balanced scoringHowever Eddy O'Connell's en­NCAA attack with 18 points. Ralph
suing conversion attempt failed 
Stepaniak and John Corneliuswhen it hit the cross bar and John added 16 apiece, while Farbotko
Playoffs

Carroll was able to come back and chipped in with 15. ' take the lead, 6-4, after scoring a 
East Regionals

try and successfully converting. Sunday night's Northern final
FIRST ROUND Notre Dame was not to be denied Villanova 85. East Carolina 70 was no contest from the outset. 
Penn 76. Providence 60
however. and scored twice early in Stanford took advantage of
South Carolina 53. Temple 51
the second half. Bill Markle scored Grace's poor overall shooting and 
Semifinals at Morgantown. W.Va. the first of two Irish tries in the Villano•·a (!6-6) vs. Penn (~4-2) waltzed to a 69-54 triumph. The South Carolina (23-4) vs. l"orth Caro­
second stanza and teammate Jeff High-Risers consistently missed
lina (2'1-4)
Wornimont tallied the second. second and third shots at the Both of O'Connell's conversion Mideast Regionals bucket, and converted on only 40 
FIRST ROlilliD

attempts were good and the Irish percent of their free throw at­
Marquette 73. Oluo 49
took the lead 16-6. flonda St. 83. Eastern Kv 81 tempts (16 of 401 as Stanford 
The remainder of the B game Semlfloals at Da•too: Oblo fouled four players out of the Marquette (?5-2) or· Ohio (18-8) vs.
was dominated by defense as game.
Kentucky (~6)neither team managed to mount Florida St. (24-5) vs. Mumesota (17-6) Trailing 50-38 at the end of any serious scoring threat. 
three quarters, Grace fought ..
Midwest Regionals
In the A game the Irish offense FIRST ROI:lliD back to cut the deficit to only four simply failed to materialize until 
SW Lows1ana 112. ~larshall 101 on two buckets and a foul shot by late in the second half. by which Texas 85. Ho_uston i4 Drew Mahalic and layups by
Semlllaals at .\mes. Iowa
time John Carroll had attained a Jerry Samaniego . and· Jim
SW LOWSlana (24-3) VS. Louis~;ille
modest but sufficient seven point (2'1-31 l{onan. Stanford iced it, though,lead. Texas (1!1-i) •·s. Kansas St. (18-8) 
when Scott Andrews tossed in a
\'ictot·y. like this ball. was within reach of the ~otre Dame ruggers last
The Irish ruggers fell behind 3-Q West Reqional pair of jumpers and Rick ,Prillweekend but was snatched away by the John Carroll club. · ­
in the first half when John Carroll FIRST ROl'SD a and free
added basket four 
was awarded a free kick as a result The Irish offensive attack finally rest of the way and salvaged the tong Beach St. 95. Bngham Young throws.
90. (overtime)
of a Notre Dame penalty. managed to score when Tom victorv. 
WebPr St. 91.-Hawaii 64 Prill finished as high man -for
In the second half John Carroll Merritt scored a try and Phil This Friday behind Stepan S~mlflaals al Salt Lak~ Cllw 
the winners with 23 points, while
opened the scormg with a try, Calandra successfully converted Center the Irish will host the WrbPr St (18-9) \'S. l:CLA (:!6-0) 
l\1ike Bush tossed in 16 and Bob
Long Bea•·h St. (!4-3) \"S. San fran­
upping its lead to 7-Q. The con­late in the game. But John Carroll rniversity of Michigan. Game 
CISCO (19-i) McGuire added 10. Samaniego
version attempt failed. managed to hold off the Irish the time is 2:00 P.M. AU Sf'lllirinals ThuJ"l;day. 
led Grace with 17 points. 
------· -----------­
----------------~ -~·-----~---~---~-----~---. ------·-----~--------~------~-~------~------------~--------~--------~-~~~----~-­
.. 
the observer March 14, 1972
8 
•

Bayh speaks here on '72 campaign Issues 
I <..ontinued from page 1) If Nixon's aooointment of Hichard Kleindeinst were left up to him. Bayh said he "wouldn't let him through the door." A presidential endorsement, as 
of yet. has not been made by Bayh, but he cautions that "I wouldn't be surpsied if I made one b before the week is out." 
Bayh sees Nixon as the force that 
will l'ventually unify the Democratic Party in the 1972 Pl£>ction. The situation in the (}(•mocratic Primaries now, ac­cording to Bayh, is "healthy." llow£>vcr, "in an effort by the candidates to survive, thee are things said that'll make reconciliation difficult." He cited the behavior of George McGovern and John Lindsay in the Florida primary. "They aren't going to kiss and make up," he said. 
Ceorge Wallace's role in the presidential picture is "a bad one" in Bayh's eyes. Wallace will not be a major force in the vote count, he predicted, but rather he will be an important psychologi· al force. He will show a significant con­stituency and that is detrimennal according to Bayh. This support, lw said. will ~:a use the OUJt'r candidates to compromise. 
When questioned about his ab­sences from the Senate, Bayh confirmed that for quite a while he toyed with a presidential aspirations. Because of this, he found it necessary to campaign. 
Bayh said that it's a question that must be answered by the people of the state. If the people of Indiana didn't think his absences were warranted then Bayh said they should vote against him. 
"Thre's no way that Birch Bayh from Indiana could win the presidency unless he was out talking to the people. As a Senator I'm payed to represent my state and from the governmental standpoint I could shape evets better as President than as Senator." 
CAMPAIGN FINANCING nayh also mentioned the issue of
Mock convention nets only 850 delegates 
campaign financing and expressed 
hy .Jim McDermott 

Although only 850 delegates signed up for the Mock Democratic <'onvention to be held April24 to 27, the convention will continue as had been planned. according to organizer Eric Andrus. 
If a delgation does not have the allotted strength, they will retain the votes. The remaining votes will be divided among those who are on the state delegation and delegates of several states will have two or three votes each. 
California has 90 votes alloted to it. and only about 40 delegates. Tennessee has 5 delegates sharing I(; votes Missouri's eight delegates will cast 24 votes. 
Andrus emphasized that the planning and activities of the convention will continue despite 

still needed. Any delegate that
SMC calendar vote today 
wishes to help should contact Eric 
-
hv Mikl• Baum 

The new Sl. Mary's College academic calendar will be voted on today, according to Acting l'r{'sident Sr. Alma Peter. The calendar for next year will be decided by the tripartite Academic 1\ffairs Council during their 4:30 nweting in LeMans Hall. 
Commenting on the calander decision, Sr. Alma noted the problem of rna tching schedules of girls who will be taking courses at Notre Dame. "We realize the fact that because of courses we have to keep some sort of consistency with Notre Dame." she realized. 
Sr. Alma observed, however, that his does not necesitate an 
exact  correspondance.  She  
n•marked  that  the  St.  Mary's  
student  body  had  shown  "some  

strong feelings" against the new 
calendar as £>sta blished at Notre Dame. 

this. Temporary state chairman will be appointed, and charged with holding an organizing meeting for the delegation. The main purpose of the meeting will be the election of permanent chairmen, and members for the committees, especially the plat­form committee, which will start meeting soon after the Easter break. .. 
Although some delegations have tl'mporary chairmen, more are 
Andrus or Dave Burch at the 
Sr. Alma said that if St. Mary's Academic Commission. decided to take co-exlasses would have to arrive earlier. 
"It isn't In the preliminary commitments absolutely necessary to that delegates have made, no correspond," she said. 
candidate has anvthine: resem-
STUDENTS AND FACULTY 21 AND OVER 
RENT-A-PINTO 
$5 A DAY s~ A MILE 
Bill Kelley CALL Romy Hammes Chuck Hamilton Bob Atkinson Fordland Joe Hayden Ford Jordan Motors South Bend Niles, Michigan Mishawaka 289-4041 (616) 683-39?.0 259-1981 
"Sorry to be leaving you" 
Tell your favorite SMC girl how much she'll be missed over the spring break with a special spring bouquet of flowers from 
Poor Richards -Only $5.00 -Orders must be in by Friday March 17 
-All deliveries to be made Mon. March 20 -Deliveries from ND Students to SMC campus only 

Phone 272-2966 Class of '48 
"Shamrocks for St. Patrick's Day" 
CAC Cinema 72 presents A Fellini Festival ,oday: (Tues. March 14) La Strada !tomorrow: (Wed. March 15) 
-
I 



La Dolce Vita 
7 and 9 pm Engineering Auditorium 
Coming 8.1/2 and Juliet of the Spirits 
iAdmission $1 .00Cinema'72 Patrons FREE 
bling a lead in the convention. llenry Jackson. John Lindsay, and (;porge McGovern are presently l£>aders in the delegate count, but they share only 10 to 15 percent of the votes. "The convention is wide-open." Andrus commented. 
his disappointment with the Nixon veto of the campaign financing bill. lie outlined three necessary restrictions on the financing: 1) total and compete disclosure, 2) a lid on expenditures, 3) some ~·ehiciP for oublic financ-inP 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Found  one  Wittnauer  "award11  
wrist  watch  see  monitor  
Memorial Library.  

Found: Contact lens. Call Sam 7415. 
PERSONALS 
Temptress.. 

I missed you and it's great to have 
you back. Stay awhile. Prophet 
Dear Connecticut Grow Up! No Joke! Canton Mass. 
NOTICES 

Parts and Accessories for Im. ported Cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 272-7187. 
DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and Within Europe. Leave anytime from NY-Chicago. Flight Center 227 North Randall, Madison, WI 53705. (608) 263-3131. 
Typing Anytime--Reasonable Prices. Chip (8256) or Mike (6963). 
NASSAU TRIP MARCH 24-31. 8 days and 7 nights with quad ac­com. Air fare and Hotel may be purchased separately. Limited number of seats available. 
Tickets on Sale at Student Union 
Ticket office. $202 inclusive. Questions,Call 7757. 
NO PLANS for Easter vacation? Spend the first week of ·spring Break in Hampton County, South Carol ina, tutoring elementary and high school students. For further information, call 4501 or 234-5889 
(Paul). 12:00. 1:00am. 

Please bring your can (pop) over to the basement of the Arkie build. 
New 7th through 9th grade classical Christian school needs English, Latin, Math, Science teachers. Small salaries first year. Looking for graduate students (preferably with Masters) to work part-time while at Notre Dame. Closing date for applications March 19th. Send vita, references, etc. to Magdalen School. P.O. Box 1225, South Bend 
~6624. 

FLORIDA'!! Round Trip $40. Call 283-6339 between 4-7 pm. Ask for Rob. 
TRY OUTS. ND SMC FRESHMAN ND VARSITY CHEERLEADERS INVITE YOU TO CHEERLEADER TRYOUTS ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
3:30 PM. SUNDAY, MARCH 19 IN THE BASEMt;;:NT OF WALSH HALL. 
Spend a day in Chicago before break this Saturday 2 pm . 2 am. Round trip bus tickets available . s~ each Call 6785 67 pm. Also Laura Nyro Chicago Auditorium tickets same nite. 
Detroit Club St. Patrick's Day celebration Friday March 17 8:30 PM. 54115 Burdette Sf. BYO. All Invited. Call 272 2068 for info. and 
,·,de. 
Cleveland Club 
Eilster Bus Gory 8150 
Prtt Club E ,1ster Bus <;;qn ups ~nd Payment I,IMch 16 Thurs. 7:30-8:30 Room 2 D La Fortune 
WANTED 
WANTED one very light por tilble typewriter for travel in Europe. Call Bruce 288-7558 after 
6. 
Wilnted: 2 female roommates for house off campus. Rent $40 month. Call 8409. 
Mr. J.G. Little lass brom Bonaparte Town desperately wants a first cl.ass educiltion at Du Lac. Will not disappoint you. 
Wi!nt to rent garage near campus for remilinder of semester. Call ,,fter 6:30pm. Frank 8242. 
NE'ed two individuals to rent six­room bi-level apartment for summer months. Completely and comfortably furnished · Ideal for Grad students. 10 minutes from cilmpus $85 per month total. Contact Kevin 272-7565 or Rich 283 1766. 
RIDES 
People need ride(s) to Baton Rouge New Orleans area, for break. Call Rick 8257. 
Need ride to N.Y.C. or Conn. Can leave ilny time on or after 23rd. Cilll Pilul 8276. 
Ride wanted to Syracuse N.Y. for 
2. Leave March 21 or 22. Call Tom 1078. 
Need ride to Youngstown Ohio or Turnpike East. Fri. Mar. 17 Rob 8152. 
Need ride to New Orleans for break. Call Chris 8659. 
Ride needed to Florida. Ex­perienced driver with perfect drivinq record will share driving ilnd expenses. Can leave Tuesday 
(21) or Wednesday (22). Please call Pete at 1721. 
FOR SALE 
Afgan puppies AKC, male and female, several colors and masks. Call 288 6911. 
ROBERTS 770X tape recorder: Cross Field heads, sound on sound, sound with sound, 4 speeds. 
Coli 3729. 
~ track car player FM Stereo cnrtridge. 2-8 ohm car speaker. Call Joe 283 6569. 
STEREO SPEAKERS Exciting New Sound Unbeatable Buys. Coli 283 8462. 
For s,11e · '67 Honda 305. $400. Cilll George 8427. 
Hilndsome Leather BELTS Made on campus On display at Tony's Shoe Shop behind Adm. 
Bldq.  
Golf cart for R906.  sale or rent.  Call Jim  
Two  sets  speakers.  Utah;  

Dynilco; illso cameras, en cyclopedias. Call 1678. 
Words lda 2da 3da 4da 5da 
1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 Jl-35 2.45.3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 ,46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 





