On The Inside 
Hesburgh addresses faculty •••page 5 
Bookstore prices ••.page 



serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 25 Thursday, October. 12, 1972 

Shriver 
by Anthony Abowd t\rt Ft>rranti Clnd Jf'rry Lutkus 
Concentrating on the issues of corruption in high government and President Nixon's alleged "contempt" for Americans, R. Sargent Shriver, Democratic vice-presidential nominee, ad­
dressed  a  capacity  crowd  in  Stepan  Center  
yesterday  during  a  campaign  swing through  
Indiana.  

"Honor in Washington is as dead as (Nixon's dog l Checkers--cold in the ground," Shriver said. "For the public the motto of Nixon's Ad­ministration is 'four more years· :, ' But for the special corporate interests, the thugs and thieves Martha Mitchell couldn't stomach, the motto is "get yours and get it now."' 
Shriver cited several incidents of alleged corruption in the Nixon Administration. He cited Nixon's refusal to reveal the sources of his campaign funds, White House acceptance of huge sums of money from industry, sudden resignations of top governmental aids and the alleged break-in at National Democratic headquartPrs by men on the President's Rei­election <'ommittee Payroll. 
"Crim1• is up 33 per cent in the streets and part of it has been taken into the executive suites of thP Reoublican Administration." Shriver said. 
Machiavellian President 
Nixon, according to Shriver, compares with the Machiavellian Prince who manipulates people for his own immediate political success. 
"The tragic outcome of Machiavelli's Prince­or President, is that when everyone begins to act as the Prince does, civilization ends, justice disappears and each man becomes an enemy to each." Shriver said. 
Shriver took exception to public opinion polls that say Americans are indifferent to this government corruption. "The public opinion polls tell us that we are no longer disturbed by corruption in high places in Washington, that million dollar campaign funds are just taken for granted, that as a nation we are just shrugging our shoulders ... ! don't believe that." 
Drawing on his extensive experience with the Peace Corps and the Office of Equal Op­portunity, Shriver appealed to youth and ethnic groups to do something about the corruption he sees in government. 
"I appeal to you today, therefore, do not be swept along by the common corruption and cynicism of this Administration. The nation needs you ... needs your resistance to corporate power and wealth, and the nation needs the dedication of your lives." 
"In the 60's we sent thousands of young people to Chile, ' Ethopia, Zanzibar. We sent VISTA Volunteers to Indian tribes in Arizona and mountain towns in Tennessee. We sent poverty lawyers to the hot valleys of California and to the backwoods of Maine. All these initiatives were good and necessary ... Now we must extend our the range of our interests ... Those who desire change must find oloser contact with thP millions in our different regions and neighborhoods" Shriver said. 
People oriented politics 
Shriver sought the support of ethnic groups across America to seek people oriented politics to stop special interests from dominating government. 
"To arrest this tide, America needs you. We must create a politics of the people to replace the politics of power,a politics of every family in America, a politics of every neighborhood." Shriver said. 


speaks at 

Shriver at Stepan: "Honor in Washington is dead ... " 
Labelling Franklin Roosevelt, Jack Kennedy, and LBJ "approachable leaders" of the past, Shriver said that "millions follow George McGovern as the man they've been waiting for today". He said that when legislation for ethnic gr·Jups' progress came up, these Democratic leaders "uniformly spoke for progress and for ::.ol'ial justice." ' 
Showing that the majority of House leaders with European and African backgrounds are members of the Democratic Party, Shriver humorously added "all the Irish congressman who are any go~g are Democrats." 
Asks for return 
The vice-presidential hopeful asked that students "return to your people .. return to learn. to serve, to increase the scope of justice and practical compassion -in your own neigh­borhoods." 
Shriver then listed a few statistics on the in­justices incurred upon the elderly, the unem­ployed, and the children in this country. Said Shriver, "Perhaps children have to suffer, but it seems odd that there is wheat for Russia, but no bread for children in America." 


Stepan 
"It seems odd," Shriver continued "that 
families will allow $400 of their feder~l taxes 
every year to go for military purposes, and $12 
only for the education of their children.." 
Both statements were applauded by the 
capacity crowd. 
Shriver said that "We don't need an hour's enthusiasm. We need a life's fidelity" from the youth of this country towards working for social justice and improvements in the neighborhoods. Stating that he did not "want to offer sentimental ~ope or cheap grace, or instant victory" Shriver proposedthat "in the four years of the McGovern Administration, I want to forge once again a bond of trust between young people and the government-a bond of vision, a bond of energy, 
a bond of solid efforts to widen justice.'' 
Shriver .called for a bond between the college students and the 16 million youth who are not in school. He claimed that the bond would be for the sake of the government, youth, and families and neighborhoods allover the country. 
new alliance 
"Our ambition must be to forge a new alliance 
of all the people," Shriver noted. After listing a 
series of alliances of people that he feels must be 
made, he recognized that "These are large 
tasks." 
He concluded though that "They must be done. 
So let us begin -today. In the coldness of the 
Nixon Administration -we must light a fire -a 
fire of justice -and never again allow that fire to 
go out." 
University President Theodore Hesburgh introduced Shriver to the audience tracing the /candidates association with both Notre Dame 
and himself. 
Shriver kidded at the beginning of the speech 
that he was "impressed with King Kersten's low 
key, subtle impersonation of Richard Nixon." 
He also pointed out that he was not disturbed 
that Senator Edward Kennedy preceeded him at 
Notre 'Dame. (Kennedy appeared last Friday.) 
He laughed that he just hoped that the buttons 
"Ted in 76" meant Fr. Te·d Hesburgh. 
On the platform, Shriver was flanked by AI 
Cramer, campus organizer for McGovern­
Shriver; Fr. Edmund Joyce, executive vice 
president of the University; Matthew Welsh, 
candidate for Governor of Indiana; and his wife 
Eunice. 
His appearance on campus was the result of an 
invitation extended by Hesburgh. The 
,
University President has made it a pracitce in 
,
election years to invite all four candidates. As of this date, the Republicans have responded 
~ 
negatively to Hesburgh's invitation. 

r 
r 
r 
t 
~ 
,' 
t 
~ 
r 

, 'r r 
r 
'r r 
, r ~ 
i t 
f 
' 
f 
2 
the observer 
warld briefs 
(cl 1972 New York Times 
Hanoi, North Vietnam--The chief French diplomat in Hanoi was seriously wounded and his official residence almost completely destroyed Wednesday during an American bombing raid over the North Vietnamese capital. Hanoi radio reported that a woman on the mission's staff and four North Vietnamese employes were killed during the raid, which apparently caught Hanoi's air raid warning system by surprise. 
Washington--President Nixon, once characterized as "Labor's number one enemy," has picked up substantial support from organized labor in his bid for re-election. The President's active courtship of his one-time foe began when New York construction workers attacked antiwar demonstrators in 1970. Since then he has won formal endorsements from several important unions--not as many as McGovern, but enough to cause gloom among some democratic officialse 
Washington--Russell B. Long, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, predicted that the Senate would pass "some kind" of spending ceiling. However, he said he was not sure whether the ceiling would contain restrictions and limitations opposed by the Administration. He said his own position was open, a change from his former opposition to a ceiling with no restrictionns on where the President could reduce government spending. 
an campus taday 
9:00 -5:00 --recruiting, peace 
corps -vista, memorial library concourst> 
3:30--lecture, frazer hilder, the automobile and air pollution, library auditorium. 7:00--lecture, mort gordon, herb blueweiss, nd marketing club, 120 hayes-healy. 8:00--lecture, john dominic crossan, parables as religious and poetic experiences, galvin life science center. 8:30--drama, lion in winter, nd­smc theater, o'laughlin auditorium. 9: 00--meeting, charasmatic prayer meeting, holy cross hall. 
8:00 ·· meeting student senate, Iafortune senate chambers 
•

Discrepancy cited lD hall allocations 
Student Government Treasurer Mike Marget charged yesterday that figures cited by the Hall President's Council as money allocated for the annual An Tostal weekend were either "misleading" or wrong. 
The Hall President's Council Tuesday had set up a committee charged with finding both a dif­ferent method of allocating student activities funds and an alternative to the present form of student government . 
The HPC had claimed that although the Council had requested $3,700 for the An Tostal weekend, the student government budget recommendations allotted only $2,600 for this purpose. 
Marge agreed, "For the An Tostal figure, $3,250 was allocated to the halls -this with no strings attached -which we recommend using for academic, cultural, religious and social interests, in addition to funding An Tostal." 
According to Marget, this figure ammounting to a $.50 per head rebate of the student activities fee, is a new innovation, suggested by the Student Government Finance Committee to help transfer fund· back to the halls. 
This amount is independent of the $4,250 allocated to the Hall Life Fund. The HPC had requested $10.000 for this Fund. 



Advanced student aHairs election 
Student elections to fill the tour division representatives posts on the Advanced Student Affairs Committee will be held this week, Graduate Student Union President Barry Wessels announced yesterday. 
The Committee set up in the Fall of 1970 to "deal with matters af­fecting the academic and ex­tracuricular lives of graduate and professional students," includes four student-filled posts elected from the divisions of the Graduate School. 
"The Committee has had its troubles in the past," Wessels said, 
"but we're lookin forward to some ocnstructive meetings in the future." 
Freshman elections 
Freshman Class Elections take place today in the residence halls from 11:30 to 1:00 at lunch time and from 5:30 to 7:00 at dinner. 
Results will be announced by the Sophomore Class officers at llpm tomorrow in the Ballroom of LaFortune Student Center. Sophomore Class President Dave Yates has requested that all candidates be present for the announcement of results. 
Old College freshmen will vote in Morrissey Hall for this election, and freshmen living in South Bend can vote in the Off-Cmpus office from 1 to 5 pm. 
The Observer ~ pubiiShe<l. dally during the college semestw ex. cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Oame MIG St. Mary's College. Subscriptlens may be purchased for sa per semester (1~ per year! from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, lndfana 46556. second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556, 
0 Sales Plan  -S79.95 No shipping charges on either plan.  1  
Name  I  
Address  I  
City  I  
II  OUR MONEY-lACK GUARANTEE-If this machine is not exactly as we stated, put it back into the shipping carton and send it back C.O.D. You must be 100".<. satisfied or your money back. This is a quality machine  I I1  

Wessels outlined as possible areas of inquirery for the Com­mittee a general analysis of the role of the graduate assitant in­cluding tax status, requried teaching as a part of a degree, contracts and cost of living ex­
penses. Wessels also suggested the questions of an Observer fee <graduate students do not now pay a fee for the Observer, which is generally included on an un­dergraduates University bill) and a "revamping of the grievance 
The apparent discrepancy in figures results from the fact that the HPC actually receives only $2,600 of the Hall Grant Program funds, the remainder going to "an off-campus representative organization", according to the Finance Committee Report. This off-campus rebate amounts to $650.00, making up the final figure of $3,250. The Hall President's Council, according to Holy Cross President, Fred Baranowski, is seeking to obtain this money from the off-campus office. 
The report does not recommend $1,800. Costs of the weekend, according to the HPC accounting statement was $3693.98. 

Although the HPC had requested $10,000 for the Hall Life Fund, devoted primarily to physical improvements in the halls, The Finance Committee recommends that only $4,250 be allocated to this fund, with the added request that University match this sum, for a total of $8,500. This was the procedure followed last year when Student Government and the University each contributed $5,000 to the Fund. 
According to Marget, the committee feels that the burden of physical improvements to the halls should be bourne by the univeristy. 
"As far as giving money back to the halls, $7,500 will be given to the halls. We're simply concerned that the student body not be requred to pay additional room and board fees from their $14 activities fee." Marget stated. 
He criticized the HPC's attitude on the budget recommendations, saying, "Perhaps they should get their own house in order with regard to hall food sales, hall taxes and the like." 

that this entire sum be used to-----------------------------. finance An Tostal. Last 
year's STEPHEN STILLS MANASSAS
allocation for this purpose was $ 
President for Business Affairs, Bro. Kiernan Ryan, GSU President Barry Wessels and Tony Palumbo, President of the Student Bar Association. There are also two elected faculty posts. 
According to Wessels, ballotf were sent out at the end of lasl week and the beginning of this. They are to be returned by Friday. 
"I encourage all graduate students to turn in their ballots, 

procedures for graduate stuaents ".;ince the election returns last year 
The twelve other electea or e... were quite poor," Wessels said. officio members of the Committee "Last year the Committee was are: the chairman, Fr. Robert pretty well defunct," Wessels Austgen, Director of Summer commented. He explained that Session, Associate Provost Fr. only one meeting had been held, Ferdinand Brown, Asst. Dean of and that the minutes of the Students, Ackerman, Asst. Vice meeting had been lost. 
For more information call 301-656-5770 
SPECIFICATIONS: 2.2 cubic feet. 18 high, 19Y, wide, 18" deep 
• Freezer compartment. 2 large ice cube trays furnished with unit (will hold up to four) 
• Trouble Free • 5-year guarantee on compressor 

MINI RURIG UNLIMITED J 4405 East-West Highway • Suite 210 • Bethesda, Md. 20014 I Enclosed is check or money order for s ---. Allow 10 days for delivery. 1 O Rental Plan-S55 & S20 refundable deposit (Total S75 a school year) 1 
L!!_~l!!:'~r~~------------------------1 
. ·, 

TICKETS at $5.50 and $3.00 First Sale TOMMORROW at 
ACC Ticket Office and S. U · Office ( 3 pm) 


IT'S OPEN! 
the 

BACK ROOM at 


CORBY'S 

TONIGHT 
Live entertainment 

9:30 -1:30 

Double Bloody Mary Special 
before every game 11 :00 1 :00 
.so¢ 

Thursday, October 12, 1972 the.observ~r 3 
• ~ 
1
Kissinger, ID record-long negotiations , 
1 Yesterday, Kissinger extended at the United States negotiating stance at a time The United States has proposed a cease­~ by Tad Szulc last moment his stay in Paris because, when Kissinger, in his Paris talks, might fire as soon as an agreement to end the 1 <Cl l!l72 New York Times according to White House officials, both have moved to modify in some manner the war is reached and the withdrawal of all sides agreed that they needed more time earlier American formulations. American forces from Vietnam within four ~ 
Washington. Oct. It--Henry A. Kissinger for discussions in the current phase of the At the same time, however, McCloskey months, parallel with the release of war 1 and the North Vietnamese representatives 

negotiations. This led to today's fourth said he had no "quarrel" with statements prisoners. 1 in Paris held today their fourth con­meeting with Le Due Tho, a member of the in Saigon and Washington earlier this The cease-fire, under the Nixon plan, is , 
secutive secret negotiating session this ,
Hanoi Politburo, and Xuan Thuy, the chief week that there was no change in the basic to be followed within six months by in­
,
week and Kissinger decided to spend the North Vietnamese negotiator. allied and Communist positions. ternationally supervised presidential cnad 
night in the French capital before flying I
While the White House Press Secretary, Kissinger's extended Paris stay-his four congressional elections with President
home to report to President Nixon. 1
Ronald L. Ziegler, declined this morning to meetings this week with Tho and Thuy Thieu stepping down one month before the The White House Press Secretary, 
comment on the substance of the extended constituted the longest series of continuing voting,Ronald L. Ziegler, announced this evening talks, Secretary of Defense Melvin R. sessions they have ever held--gave rise to North Vietnam and the National ~ 
the latest delay in Kissinger's return from 1
Laird told a news conference here that the renewed diplomatic speculation here that Liberation Front, or Vietcong, on the other ,the Peace Talks, but said that there were "private negotiations" in Paris "are in a a breakthrough in the peace negotiations and, demand Thieu 's immediate removal "no indications" that the negotiations very serious, sensitive and significant may be near. and the creation of a tripartite government would be further extended at this time. 
stage." But the opinion among informed ad­of "national concord" prior to the cease­The original plan was for Kissinger to 
The State Department also appeared to ministration officials, speaking privately, fire. 
come back tonight, and the White House 
suggest that some changes in the official was that "a lot of work is still ahead," as Their proposals, clarified on Sept. 11,offered no reasons for his decision to negotiating postures of the two sides might one of them put it today. provide for subsequent elections for a
remain in Paris until tomorrow morning. 
bein the offing. These officials believed that additional constituent assembly. But no mention isZiegler said he was informed of it at 6:30 Thus, Robert J. McCloskey, the consultations by White House emissaries made of who would govern South Vietnam 
p.m. 
Department's Chief Spokesman and would be held in Saigon with President during this interim period or of electingAs it had done all week, the White House 
special assistant to Secretary of State Nguyen Van Thieu of South Vietnam, the later a President. 
continued to n:•fuse to say today whether 
William P. Rogers, told newsmen that he central figure in the narrowing In the latest exchanges in Paris, theKissinger, who is President Nixon's would no longer reiterate publicly the negotiations on the political aspects of a United States has taken the view that the 
special assistant for National Security American and North Vietnamese stands. peace settlement and that Kissinger would North Vietnamese and Vietcong formulaAffairs, had made any progress in this "In present circumstances, I cannot be going back to Paris one or more times would result in the imposition by force of a record-long round of secret negotiations. 
refer back to previous statements by any before any final agreement could be Communist regime in Saigon.
Likewise, White House officials declined party at the risk of intruding in the process reached. Hanoi's diplomats have offered to report on the length of today's session described as 'sensitive'," he said. At the State Department, McCloskey guarantees that this would not be the case

and whether it had gone into the night, thus reference to the language was noted" that the Columbia
This was a said "it and that none of the three proposed fac­forcing Kissinger to cancel once more his used by Nixon at his news conference last Broadcasting System reported last night tions in a provisional regime woulddeparture. 
Thursday to describe the status of the that according to a statement by an dominate the others.
Kissinger, the White House said, will Paris talks. authoritative North Vietnamese to the Further, they have argued that theprobably deliver his report tomorrow Other administration officials said network's correspondent in Hanoi, Thieu American Plan would solidify the Thieunight after President Nixon returns here privately that the State Department would be acceptable to lead one of the Regime after the Communist forces hasfrom a day-long campaign appearance in 

preferred to avoid freezing publicly the three factions in a future Saigon regime, ceased fighting and, in effect, destroy the Atlanta. "on the fantastic supposition" that he Vietcong provisional government. 
wished to do so. While informed administration officials But, McCloskey added, he could not say agreed privately that the search for a(THE OB..rERVER) whether such a possibility "is a factor in settlemment is centering on a possible the present deliberations." reconciliation of these positions, As far as the official negotiating' McCloskey refused to comment today as to
( News scene ) 

positions are concerned, the principal whether the United States would consider difference getween Washington and Hanoi a "negotiated" rather than an "imposed" ,1 is South Vietnam's political future. postwar regime in Saigon. ,
Student dissatisfied 

, Rising McGovern apathy among students 1 ,
1 
1 
1
by Frank Lynn The apathy appears to touch every have started distributing on campuses last spring and are counted on again for<cl 1!172 New York Times campus in a survey of the tristate area by thousands of leaflets with the question: canvassing and literature distribution. 1
New York Times correspondents. What are you waiting for'?" New York, Oct. II-Thousands of college From Princeton to Yale, from Brooklyn Many said they were discouraged by The apathy has even shaken a major tenet 
~ 
students in New York. New Jersey and College to Skidmore, thousands of students polls that show the Senator, as of now, an of the National McGovern strategy -that a Connecticut, on campuses traditionally said they were disillusioned with almost certain loser. massive influx of new pre-McGovern voters ~ 
in the 18 to 21 category would more thanamountthe most liberal in the country, are McGovern because of his dumping of Sen. "KI liked him when he was an underdog, counterbalance the apparent shift of somediscouraged and disillusioned over Sen. Thomas F. Eagleton as a running mate, a when he seemed to have a degree of in­traditional Democrats toward conservatism George McGovern's presidential cam­shift to the center on some issues and tegrity and wasn't a typical politician," and the Republican ticket.

paign. accommodations with professional said Judy Fields, a 21 year old Cornell 
The disaffection shows up not only in the politicians. senior. "I thought he had transcended David Oppenheimer, Downstate Student words of many students but also their The reaction here and at numerous typical politics and then, after the Coordinator for the McGovern campaing action -relatively small numbers of . campuses across the country could be Eagleton affair, I realized he hadn't, and in New York, conceded that many students McGovern volunteers, a tepid response to damaging to the McGovern campaign that he wasn't even a good typical became disillusioned, even cynical, when 
registration drives on some campuses and particularly because -probably more than politician." they discovered that, as he put it, "George the apparent absence of pressure on any other single population group -the Most of the students interviewed, said McGovern is after all a politician and that colleges to provide time off for student students provided the impetus for the that they would still vote for McGovern, he is not a crusader on a white horse." But campaigning as was done widely in 1970 Senator's drive to the Democratic but such disaffection is still politically he said he had detected an upsurge of following the Cambodian invasion and Presidential nomination. significant. campus activity in recent days and hoped fatal violence at Kent State and Jackson McGovern campaign officials are Students provided the core of McGovern to spur it by McGovern literature designed State. concerned enough about the apathy to volunteers in the primary campaigns of to appeal to college students. 
Another mistake 

Severe da~nage to French Embassy in Hanoi 
this period," Laird said. "The President damage occurred to the French delegate aircraft. No United States aircraft were
by Bernard Guertzman 

has stated that on several occasions, as general building in Hanoi today." lost and the SAM's could have impaced on(Cl l!l72 Nt>w y, rk Times 
recently as his last press conference (last The rapidity with which the Ad­the ground.Washington. Oct. It--The United States Thursday). We will continue to strike ministration moved to express its regreat "We regret any personal injury or 
moved quickly today to express regret over 
military targets in North Vietnam." stemmed from a desire to mollify the damage caused in the area of the French the damage done to the French mission in At that conference, Nixon said there French, with whom relations have im­Delegation Building during the air strikes Hanoi, but said the destruction might have would be no unilateral halt in the proved in recent years. and the North Vietnamese firing on United been caused by amisguided North Viet­
American bombing of North Vietnam Moreover, the French Government had States aircraft," the statement said. namese antiaircrait missile and not by which was renewed in force following muted its criticism of American activity in At his Pentagon news conference, Laird American bombs. North Vietnam's invasion of South Viet­Indochina and has recently spoken said the railyards were some three miles 
At the same time, the Administration 

nam last spring. He has said the bombing hopefully of a breakthrough in Kissinger's away from the French mission. He said underscored its determination to maintain and other acts of war against North talks with Le Due Tho , the Hanoi Polit­that an investigation was under way to its almost daily aerial attacks against Vietnam would not end until a settlement buro member. determine what happened.
North Vietnam. It said that neither the was reached. But as Roger's statement indicated, the "There was considerable antiaircraft 

damage to the French mission nor Henry The Administration, nevertheless, was fire. There were several SAM missiles
Administration was not prepared yet to A. Kissinger's secret talks in Paris, embarrassed by the heavy attention accept full blame for the damage to the that were fired during the particular
described as at a "sensitive" stage, were focused on the damage to the French French mission. mission of these F-4 (Phantom) aircraft. cause to alter the bombing program. 
mission, and the concern exprssed by In statements issued here and in Saigon, . With the number of SAM's fired, and with 
Secretary of Defense Melvin A. Laird President Georges Pompidou of France the Defense Department said that United the amount of antiaircraft weaponry that was asked at a news conference whether after a Cabinet meeting. He called the States Navy Planes had attacked was being used by the Vietnamese at the "it was wise to target areas to close to bombing a "deplorable act." "military targets including a major time, it's very difficult for us to state in a 
Hanoi" while Kissinger, the President's Secretary of State William P. Rogers railroad yard and ·transshipment point positive, definite manner whether it ac­adviser on National Security affairs, was sent message French Foreign tually was a faulty bomb drop as far as a
a to across the Red River north of the area of winding upfour days of talks in Paris with Minister Maurice Schumann which Hanoi'l in which the French Delegation pilot was concerned, or whether it could be Hanois's. negotiators. said: "Please accept my own most sincere Building is located." . an impact of some other weapon fired at 
"The situation has been that we will regret for the injury that French Delegate A number of enemy surface-to-air these aircraft," he said. continue the use of our air power during 
General Pierre Susini sustained when missiles were fired at the United States continued on page·lO 
,~ 
, 

the observer Thursday, October 12, 1972
4 
•

Students exam1ne future of LaFortune 
Hoping to open the LaFortune of Student Acitivites. Dan Schipp committee coor­Dan Schipp, and Dennis r.;tienne working in the center with second Student Center to a wider range of Committee members have set a dinator. <H-Manl. year architecture students. The uses, students are starting to target date of February for the Member of the facilities com­Jim Clarke and Rosie Condon committee under Steve Carter and examine and prepare proposals for completion of the report. It will be mittee will coordinate the study will head the food service group in Mary Ann Gillespie, will examine 
COnSidering eXtPnSinn nftho <:or­
revitalization of the center and its submitted to Vice President of while examining the present use the present structure, and coor­services. Student Affairs Phillin Faccenda ofthe center and various alter­dinate the work of these students
ViCeS and hours of the Huddle. 
The students will be working the through Dr. Ackerman's office. native uses. They will also look for They will also look into any with the planning committees. 
areas of good service planning, Despite the immediate concerns student needs and expectations for possible extension of the dining The publicity committee will be 
architectural renovation, facilities of the committee, it also hopes to the center. The committee will be area of LaFortune. operated by Barb Allen and Jerry 
planning, and publicity, according devote ample time to the long headed by temporary coordinators During November, the ar­Lutkus who will handle all press 
to Dr. Robert Ackerman, Director range plans for the center. savs .Jim McDermott. Dave Caruso. chitecture committee will be arrangements for the committee . 
Students interested in helping 
should call the office of the 
Director of Student Acitvities 
<!i308 l or the Student governmentConference to study needs of aged offices <lilll-7668). 
professor and now a professor of Indiana commissioner on the Aged Council of Churches and the In-,-------------------­pastoral theology at Yale and Aging. Conference co­
diana Catholic Conference 



Tl. red of Gett• v H .
University; Dr. Robert Kasten­ordinators include Dr. Peter Naus, assisted by the Indiana Stat~ 
I ng I our aIr 
baum, chairman of the psychology assistant professor of psychology, 
Commission on the Aged and 
department at the University of and Reb. Donald McNeill, C.S.C., 
Aging. 



Wiped-Out? 

r 
Is it Sick? f ,
r American Chemical Society chapter 
Is It Damaged? ~ 
Is It Tangled?
r 
f at St. Mary's cited for achievement 
r 
r by Audi Husser 

Does It Need
tici.pate in many diverse activities. chemistry, the ACS will, as ex-

r Obst>rver Staff Reporter 
pressed in their charter. provide 


s hap in g up ? ·,·
l'mployment aids.
Student affiliates are invited to Saint Mary's student af-attend national and regional This is the first award of this 
"Let Sue style your hair."

r 
filiatechapter of the American 
kind that Saint Mary's has I\AI I I h . b/ 
A comprehensive understanding Massachusetts; and Dr. Edward assistant professor of pastoral The conference organizers of the needs of the a.ged and dying , F. Dobihal, president of Hospice, theology, both of Notre Dame, as propose, through talks and small IS the goal of a maJor conference Inc., a Connecticut organization well as Thomas Morgan and group sessions, to increase the scheduled for the Center for planning health care facilities for James Thurston, executive understanding of the questions and Continuing Education at the the aged and the terminally ill. director and president, respec­problems fo the aged and dying, University of Notre Dame on tively, of the Institute on Religion needs which they see as psycho­October 23, 24, and 25. and Aging. social and theological. They also 
A deadline of October 9 has been hope to develop creative forms ofIn addition, the conference will set for conference reservations by ministry to these individuals, andbe attended by Reb. Anthony 
in so doing to realize the Sponsored by the Institute on rC'Iationships between the
Rocha. a member of the White the sponsoring organizations. the 
Institute on Religion and Aging atHouse staff and adbisor to

Religion and Aging, the first an­professions and ministers and
Notre Dame in cooperation with 

nual conference will bring to the church volunteers, and their
the American Association of 

campus Reb. Henri J.M. Nouwen, President Nixon on problems of the responses to problems faced by
Hetired Persons. The Institute is 

a former Notre Dame psychology aging, and Dr. George Davis, aged and dying.
co-sponsored by the Indiana 

Chemical Society has been cited for its outstanding achievement  meetrings of the society that are held to present new scientific  received. It w_as presented as the result of the umty and ensthusiasm  
during the 1971-1972 school year.  s.tudies and research paters, and at times, the students can present their own work.  oft_thestudentaffiliates,guidedbyth~Ir faculty advisor, Dr. DorothyFe1gl of SMC's chemistry dpart- 
The national chappter of the ACS is the largest organization of its kind, dedicating itself to the scientific and educational ad­vancement in chemistry and chamical engineering fields. Affiliation with this organization provides an opportunity to par- Seminars on graduate schools are provided to give the chemistry major more insight into the awaiting opportunities in science, as will as plant trips and industrial tours. For the some 115,000 members of the society wishing to continue their carreers in  ment, and the offecers of last yearKathy Schmidt, Rose Ann Wolf' and Kathy Gibboney. ' Most chemistry majors are already affiliates, but new members, especially freshmen, are encouraged to join.  

Law Advisory Council to meet with administrators and faculty 
The University of Notre Dame's meeting. Frazer F. Hilder, Palumbo, president of the Student Law Advisory Council will attend assistant general counsel at Bar Association; Jock Smith,fall sessions beginning Thursday General Motors, Detroit, will president of the Black Americans 
on the campus and continuing speak at the meeting which will be Law Student Association; Luis through Saturday. Members meet followed by a panel discussion 
Jaramillo, president of the LaRaza 
periodically each year with Law directed by Michael V. Mcintire, National Law Students School administrators and faculty professor of law. 
Association; and Judy Snyder,
mell\bers to discuss current Leaders of four campus law president of the Notre Dame programs and prospective groups will participate in a panel Womens Rights Association.changes. discussion at 9:30 Friday morning Members of the advisory council 
A talk on the automobile as a in the Center for Continuing will participate in a Saturdayfactor in ,\ir pollution at 3:30p.m. Education. Speaking on the topic morning panel discussion of em­Thursdav i:> the Memorial Library of "The New Notre Dame Law ployment possibilities in the legalauditorium will open the weekend Student" will be Anthony orofession. 


Contrary to a story published Monday by the Observer, absentee ballots can be filed in the states of Iowa, Pennsylvania, Louisiana, New Jersey, and Alabama. Law Student Pam Sayad corrected her error and claimed that the misin­formation was a result of a computer error. 
NEEDED: SLC secretary(student) 
MUST: Attend all meetings Take Notes 
Prepare l)linutes for distribution 
ANYONE INTERESTED: Contact 7308 f¥ 
further information in concert 
THE GRASS ROOTS 
ABC-DUNHILL RECORDING ARTISTS: "MIDNIGHT CONFESSIONS," "LErS LIVE FOR TODAY," AND "TEMPTATION EYES" 
also SAIL CAT 
current hit record "Motorcycle Mama" on Electra Records. THIS SUNDAY, OCTOBER 15 
2 SHOWS: 4:00 and 7:30pm All seats reserved--$4.50 (advance), $5.50 (at the door). Advance tickets are available at the Morris Civic Box Office, 11-5 daily or call 8253 for tickets and further information. 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 211 N. MICHIGAN AVE. 232-6954 

vve so ve ong aIr pro ems I 
• 
~-~ All Services By Appointment
' ahe 1111·.~)' 
. fVlrUJ1ammer 
· • } 
-. . . . HAIR sTYliNG FoR ?.':~'~~~~~N~M~~~o~~·-~ 
1637 Lmcoln Way W. Phone 23~-6622 
"THE BEST OF 40ACRES 





POETRY" 

Brash, funny, subtle poetry by black, white and Puerto Rican young people 13 to 20 years of age. Selected from "40 Acres And A Mule," Harlem's youth newspaper. 
Mail to: 
HORIZON SIX 
P.O. Box 21, Manhattanv.ille Station New York, N.Y. 10027 
Regular Price $3.75 SPECIAL STUDENT RATES $2.00 
(Please include school mailing address) 
Candidates for Fresh man Class Office can circulate flyers in the student-hall mailboxes, it has been revealed. This is contrary to a published report in yesterday's Observer that credited Sophomore Class Vice­President Greg Garrison saying the opposite. The boxes are university owned and not federally woned. Therefore, the circulation of the flyers is per­" issable. 

~
, 
1
,
,
Thursday, October 12, 1972 the observer 5 
Explains new committees 1 ~ 
Hesburgh faculty address: future optimism • 
-------------------------~---------------~------­
tenure, mmority problems, and the 
"finite limit" to how far tuition canFr. Hesburgh also discussed the 
University President Father state of University finance in his go. However, the only way to fulfillfinancial status of the University.
Washington Hall address. the five to ten per cent expensesTheodore M. Hesburgh told the ·'This past year, we came out in 
University faculty yesterday that As a member of the Carnegie increase is to raise tuition costs.the black for a change, and we 
he had "optimism for the future of Commission on Higher Education, could keep it up if everybody "If we can stay in the black, year ,
,
Notre Dame, not in dollar and Hesburgh said he has studied the in and year out, we have a future."worked hard to try to stay in the ,
cents terms but in terms of the problems of governance in today's On tenure of faculty, Fr.black." Delivering this happy
tradition that all share and universities. Although there is an Hesburgh offered statistics fromnews, Fr. Hesburgh claimed that
strengthen.'' absence of a centralized control by the Keest Commission's study ofin previous years, Notre Dame was 
a federal government in the United tenure to the audience. Today, 50
In his annual opening address to working in the red. Instead of ~ 
States, Hesburgh said colleges are per cent of the faculty are onthe faculty, Fr. Hesburgh ex­loosing $700,000, the University
dependent upon Boards of tenure; by 1980, 85 per cent areplained the functions of two new saved $150,000 in the graduate
Trustees. The diminishing power predicted to be on tenure. Morehigh-level committees on campus, school and $172,000 from the
of the presidential authority is intensive screening is needed tothe Committee on University library and the infirmary. The
characteristic as well as depar­curb this growth and to admitPriorities and the Committee on reserve of $200,000 was not touched
mental supremacy a keynote in an more members of minority groups. the Course of Studies. rOUP, he at all last year. He also con­
organized structure.

said, is designed to give the tributes this financial uplift to the"If we can work out a gover­
University "a consensus on where 15 per cent of credit course hours Fr. Hesburgh concluded by 
nance that does justice to all, we

we're going," and he encouraged given by St. Mary's. commending and thanking the 
can avoid external pressure. The

all groups on campus to register Fr. Hesburgh: "The experience Although he anticipates ex­faculty of Notre Dame for their 
experience here at Notre Dame is here at Notre Dame is a total

their opinions so that the entire traordinary expenses this year, devotion and dedicated teaching. 
a total experience, and I hope this experience."

University is heard. Fr. Hes( <~rgh believes the sc. ·ool 1-"e c iaims that the faculty here has 
will be true in the future," said

The Committee on the Course of can do it again. He assesses some always been one of humanity and 
Hesburgh. said he was disappomtea at the

Studies, said Hesburgh, goes of the good fortune to this year's drive t"'<uecially in times of
fact that the numbers have fallen

beyond the ordinary curricum financial situation to the Blt~e change and unrest. The faculty
He also voiced concern over the considerably below their goals

committee, and will investigate Cross-Blue Shield Insurance, and and students collaborated together 
minorities situation at Notre within the past year. "We've

ideas throughout the University thanked the faculty for par­in the "family spirit" to solve the
Dame. He enumerated statistics performed quite badly ir. light of 

"that are stirring in the academic ticipating in that drive. problems that confronted both
from last year and this year our goals. Each department

order." groups. According to the
referring to minorities either should have discussions and

Fr. Hesburgh also touched on President, "Notre Dame is a place
employed or admitted as students studies and see what can be done In reference to tuition hikes the
University governance, faculty too good not to grow and prosper." 
to the University. Fr. Hesburgh about the stiuation." President claimed that there 'is a 
campus roundup 

Rockne Memorial open house set for W'eekend 
A Rockne Memorial open house pxhibition by selecting the protrayed the great medieval Teaching will include lecture and wJII be tne mstructor. to enable Notre Dame women and illuminations on display and by knightly legends. Founded in 1969 classroom participation, even Cost for the course will be $40.00 St. Mary's students-faculty and designing and writing a catalogue. by Fortunato Pasqualino, the new acting out of parent---ehild roles. per couple, which includes the text staff to visit and learn how to use The project was supervised by Sicilian Puppets have presented Classes will take place weekly at book and manual to be used. ,1 the building is scheduled for Dean A. Porter, curator and performances in Rome, Taranto, 7:00p.m. and iast inree i1ours with P.E.T. is awarding two 
1
Sunday evening, October 15, assistant professor of art, and Turin and Genoa and have ap­a short break in the middle. The scholarships to faculty couples. between 7:00 and 8:00p.m. coordinated by Mary McCabe peared on Italian television. course is six weeks long and meets Those interested may contact Jack 
~ 
Dr. Thomas W. Fallon, Director Clark. a Saint Mary's art first on Thursday, October 19, in Bomer, 104 South Regina, for ,
of the Rockne Building, says a graduate. Evening course 222 Madeleva. Armand Simone application. 
short meeting will be held at 7:00 James Tomasi. a Notre Dame 
p.m. on the basketball floor to senior. designed the catalogue Pxplain the policies governing the printed with funds contributed by in child rearing 
use of the building by women and Dr. Frederick Crosson. dean of the St. Mary's personnel. College of Arts and Letters, and Beginning soon a special evening The women are advised to wear through the cooperation of course on how to rear resoonsible comfortable exercise clothes or Dowagiac Commercial Press and children will be offered on the 
hring a swim suit if they wish to 1 itho Arts of Mishawaka. Saint Mary's campus.take part in a work shop conducted 
Parents' Effectiveness Training."

after the short meeting. Sprayragen atThis workshop will give women This course. based the an opportunity to learn use of the S• • philosophy and book of Dr. Thomas 
facilities under the guidance of the lnal synagogue Gordon. teaches parents specificPhysical Education Department tools with which to prevent and
Sinai Synagogue, located at

Staff. remedy oroblems in child rearing. 
LaSalle and Eddy Streets in South
Swimming, gymnastics, 
Bend. presents Mr. Joel

racquetball and special exercise 
Sprayragen of Chicago, an

machines will be available. 
authority on Soviet Jewry, Tuesday. October 17, at 9:P.M. at the Synagogue. Mr. SprayragenArt gallery will speak on "A Look at Soviet .JPwry Today." We invite anyoneexhibition interested to attend. The lecture is 
free and open to all. 

The Art Gallery of the University of Notre Dame is currently Puppet theatre Pxhibiting 31 medieval miniatures from the collection of Lessing J. 

at Washington

Hosenwald of the National Gallery of Art. Washington. D.C. All single 
The Little Theater of Sicilian 
leaves from bibles, missals, 
Puppets will present "Don 
psalters, etc., the miniatures date 
(~uixote" at the University of Notre 
from the Thirteenth to the Fif­
Damp's Washington Hall October 
teenth Century and represent 
19 (Thursday) at 8:15p.m. Their 
illuminations from German, 
appearance is sponsored by the
I<:nglish, Bohemian, French, lkpartment of Music. 
Spanish and Italian workshops. 
The Little Theater is a revival of 
Undergraduate students of art 
shows once popular in southern 
from Notre Dame and Saint 
Italy. where armored puppets
Mary's College sponsored the 
notre dame 


Ski Club 
Meeting: 
THE ONE YOU'VE BEEN WAITING FOR Aspen and European Ski trips to be discussed. 
Room 216 O'SHAUGHNESSY Oct. 12 7:30 m 




GSU PARTY 
Refreshments and Dancing at Carroll Hall 

7:30 pm Saturday Oct. 14 $1 per person LAW STUDENTS WELCOME! 

,
, 
1 
, 1 
1 1
, 
1 
~ 

THE OBSERVER Crime in the Dining Halls 
News: 283-171 5 Editorial: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Thursday, October 12, 1972 

The Budget 

After wading through almost 40 petitions for appropriations, Student Government Treasurer Mike Marget decided to submit his committee's recommendations in a form where he can explain them more readily. 
It's questionable that explanation was truly necessary. 
The budget committee recom­mendations are excellently done though a question does remain over two areas of appropriations. In particular, areas of concern are the Student Government monies and the funding for black organizations. 
Marget approved $14,900 for the use of Student Government. That figure is less than the $15,500 that was approved for the government's use last year. The problem here is where does the money really go? f For the benefit of the students at Notre Dame, it seems only fair that student government show an itemized breakdown
~ 
of its internal expenses.r 
It's not a question of integrity or

~ 
credibility. We're not attempting to call Student Government's hand. Rather, it's a question of accountability. Are they
r willing to show the students where the r money goes? 
I r 
Black Funding 

The black organizations on campus received less this year than they got last 
r 
year. But that is not the pproblem, as we 
r 
see it. Rather. we see as a problem the r fact that Student Government lumped
r 
r together the New Frontier Scholastic 
Society, and the Society of the Ujamma,' r two societies merged only by the fact that r their members were black. 
! 
Dual funding is a mistake. Two groups shouldn't be lumped together, given a sum and told to divide it. It really isn't 
fair, particularly considering that the groups do not havejoint activities and meetings.
t 

daanesbury 
,; FIR51; 1HE' BE? ~ 80YSl 
.. 
FOR !$r!11V'C~ ~ 
6ROMN6 VP 10 li!F 
CI:JAI {I)Of?K 116'1<. H!J'/1-C?
A 110MHY IS 0/Vc OF
GIRL-S, IP t../1(£ OFF /1/1/.t? SHOt<J ,qu
rfiE H05T UJOIVPERF(}t-TO (!7lll TO YOU 771/NGS .q t!Tll£ 6/RL CI7N 1/IOSE ARR06/1NT BOYS 
1780U T 6R(tfi!NG VP 77f/1/ SHCS JUST AS
WANT TD 00 BUT... rJIERE
.. 7V !J£ HOH/11cS.
,; !Jff OTHER TJI!/1165 IN /../Fe Cr!MaE / SH£7 CAN' tJO 11.5 tV£U ... fl/111/ a?J9m'l/e' / 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
New Machinery 
The method in which Marget presented the budget is excellent. The explanations that are enclosed with each recom­mendation present the rationale behind the decision. That is a courtesy that has not been provided the organizations before. 
The second new piece of "machinery" that Marget has installed is the Hall Grant Program. It is through this program that student government is channeling $3250 into the HPC with the major portion of the funds earmarked for An Tostal. The move was a necessary one--one that should have been made long ago. Now the entire responsibility for An Tostal lies in the proper place--in the HPC. 
The final new "Machinery" is that all organizations must go directly to Marget for the funds when they require them. Again, the move is a necessary one. It will help cut down the fi seal waste and irresponsibility that plagues organizations here. 
Approval 
The problem that lies ahead now is approval. Student government leaders hint that the budget will be passed. But for the budget to be passed it must appear before the Senate, which is now defunct. If it doesn't go to the Senate, it would have to be passed by the student government board of Commissioners-­which would be created if the new con­stitution is passed. Guess who has to pass the constitution? You got it--the Senate. 
So, there's the problem. A well done budget tying up $79,000 in student funds is waiting to be passed. But it is tied up in the non-bureaucracy of the "unpoobah" administration. Which way out? 
Jerry Lutkus 


rjarry trudeau 
Night Editors: Anthony Abowd, George Lund Ass't Night Editor: Art Esposito 
Design: Tim Neuville, Sue Prendergast, Lynn DiGuilio, Nic Catrambone Pictures: Jerome, alias "the claw" 
Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr Night Controller: Steve Roper Typists: Joe Wilkowski, John Flannigan, 
D~ve Rust, Howie Halle, Mary Remer, D1anne Chermside 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllmmllmlllmlllll mike Iavoie 
"They'reonly putting in a nickle and they want a dollar song." 
Up to the end of the long, metallic table is rolled a tall and slender cart carrying its freight of trays, with each tray bearing tableware and the refuse of a student's meal. The cart is at my side, my work and its routine begin. Taking the trays out of the cart, I place every item in its "appropriate" place, the glasses on the glass tray, the silverware in the silverware basket, the different plates in their proper piles, and so on. And among all this, I am too often put to dispose of things which were not meant to meet this end. Five unused napkins, a full glass of soda, two slices of bread, a half dozen paddies of butter, a barely stirred plate of ham and potatoes, a bowl of cherries. and a soggy cracker all come to their "place" in paper to be burned or garbage to be disposed. And all of this is awfully, many times multiplied. These things make me angry, very much. 
Consider please. Do we have want of a realization of how precious a resource foods are for human survival? People die of starvation, you know. A man's life ultimately depends upon the availability of a bowl of beans, a slice of bread, a sip of water. The problem of world hunger is by no means a simple one. But it is undeniable true that ap­proximately two out of every three people go to bed hungry, you've heard that before, yes. A strengthening malnutrition, and then death; this pattern has been notorious in Biafra, India, Pakistan, and elsewhere and elsewhere. Man, this is real, open your eyes, heighten your sensitivity. Our hearts might well bleed. 
It is an ignominous contradiction that we can, at the doors of the dining hall, have tables set up for the various relief funds e.g. Pakistani, Biafran; and at the same time show incredible carelessness in taking and not eating so much food. A student places four glasses of milk or soda on his tray, but only two does he drink. Two pieces of pie are taken, but only one is eaten. This and worse does indeed happen, often. 
Of course some students offer rationales for this behavior. A student will claim that a certain meat was either done too wellor not cooked enough, it could not meet his impeccable specifications. Another student will contend that he lost his appetite half way through his meal, which is acceptable on occasion but if it is chronic he ought to have a doctor cure him of his whimsical eating habits. There are other explanations offered and maybe some of them are reasonable, however too many of them just don't hold true when considering all of the factors involved in massive food production. At this point I would like to refer you to an article printed in the September 29th issue of Scholastic about the dining hall operation here at Notre Dame. You might well come to know then the many difficult and sometimes in­surmountable problems that crop up in the food service of 5600 students. The dining hall management dearly wishes to provide the students with quality service; the dining hall employees perform admirably under most strenuous and unfavorable conditions· the saints at Notre Dame cannot only be found in the Golden Dome building, you might try looking behind the food lines for the unsung ones. 
Like other forms of pollution, indiscriminate food waste is not to be laughed at, and yet we make our pitifully corny jokes, "Oh boy, what do we get to eat today? Shit!" 
Listen: Here is a positive proposal. Try it, okay? 
Start developing conscientous dining hall habits. When you enter the food line take only the tableware that you are going to utilize. Take only as many napkins, butters, etc, as you will need. With meats, vegetables, soups and desserts, please remember after all that you can come back for more. If you're in doubt as to whether you'll like something or not, ask for a smaller portion, the line ladies will gladly honor your request. Let us moderate our demands, we do have limits and we are also subject to limits. We're going to live. I'm simply asking that you exercise greater care and sensibility, for the con­sequences will be pleasing for us all. 
Can you see the fruits of this new behavior? See what will happen. This is the chain reaction: Less food will we wasted and students will be slightly more predictable to serve; then the dining hall will find that it has more food left over and can therefore cut back on production and costs; then the food services will be able to put out even better meals because of the savings, and we may even find food services costing us less in the long run. We will profit economically, and I at least, as a cafeteria worker, will have a fuller rapport with a more caring and sensitized student body. Too simple? Not worth your time? Try this new behavior okay, we can, we should. 
r-----------------~ r----------------=~ 
the observer
/HAT's
H£~ fcOPt.£, 1'r£ r;or 

6Rurr;BoYs.' !10Y.5, IF YOU't-t­
AN /{}£11! ar:S FINP 

/'IOWWHRT £XCtJ.5E US, IH£
OtJr WHAT VOU RU­

po you GIRlS 19110 I H,l/1/t;
J W!WT 10 8£ WH£/11 

13/Rt.-5 ro HflVc R uTll.-£. 

the staff
: YOU 6/?W tJpl 

I WANT1D I CIIRT. 
--·· ..... -~.......... ---..-.... ­




Thursday, October 12, 1972 the observer 
7 








Viewpoint 
wicker 
Congress responsibility at low ebb 
by Tom Wicker 

<c> New York Times News Service 
Nt>w York, Oct. ll. In the era of the imperial presidency, when occupants of the White House make war with impunity and decree national policies with Olym­pian hauteur, it is tempting to look to Congress for salvation. But alas l As Khrushchev used to say, that is setting a goat to guard the cagbage patch. 
Not only has Congress repeatedly and ignominiously failed to do anything about the war in Vietnam, either through its supposed poser of the purse or by a reassertion of its lost constitutional powers to declare war; now it is handing over to the President virtually the last vestige of its responsibility as a separate hut equal branch of the government. 
That is not too strong a description of the House's grant to President Nixon of the power to cut spending in any way he chooses, in order to hold government outlays to $250 billion through next June. Unless the Senate balks at this abdication, the federal purse will have been handed to Nixon for single-handed disbursal. 
Steve Hess, the political scientist and associate of the President, was correct in pointing out in a letter to the New York Times that the authority granted to the 

restan 
-, 

President by the House is the equivalent of an "item veto" on appropriations. That is, Nixon could cut back on spending anywhere he chose, without regard to the amounts voted by Congress. 
Hess was correct, too, that all modern presidents have favored the item veto; why should they not? For years, moreover, political scientists have ad­vocated it as a tool by which the executive branch could cope with such congressional devices as pork-barrel bills and irrelevant or mischievous amendments. 
It is not to condone those devices or the many other deficiencies of Congress to say, however, that the last thing this presidency <whether it is occupied by Richard Nixon, Lyndon Johnson or George McGovern l. Inflation is a bad illness, no doubt about it; but if the cure is an even more swollen and impregnable presidency, equipped at last with that power of the purse that Congress used to guard so jealously, it is a disastrous way to get well. 
Here is an administration tht talks piously about decentralization but which has so centralized foreign policy in the White House basement that Secretary of State Rogers is at the U.S. talking about aircraft hijackers while Dr. Kissinger and Nixon between tern decide matters of life and death, war and peace, in absolute privacy; which has very nearly abolished cabinet offices as vital organs of govern­ment, while elevating an untouchable which House staff beyond any power previously known in Washington; and which now demands of Congress unlimited sway over spending authority specifically denied the President by the constitution. Some decentralization! 
Meanwhile, almost anywhere you look, Congress piles up its own record of inep­titude and iniquity; small comfort there for the critic of the White House. ln the House, members are not even permitted to vote on the proposition of detaching a few dollars from the mammoth hightway trust fund for purposed of financing mass 
transit  facilities;  in  the  Senate,  the  
Finance Committee-which  would  have  
graced  the  administration  of  Genghis  

Khan -cuts an urgently needed pension ­Reform Bill while endlessly spieling its concern for the elderly. 
With friends like that, nobody would need an enemy. Under the leadership fo Russell Long, the Finance Committee Chairman, the Senate even succeeded in worsening the welfare mess ; a feat as ingenious as it was indefensible. Not only did long lead it to the death ofNixon's family assistance plan and, with the President's approval, the improvements to it proposed by Sen. Ribicoff and en­dorsed by Secretary Richardson of 

H.E.W.; but the Senate also slipped into the remaining legislation some special penalties on the poor, such as: 
-any state may require any welfare recipient, without exception, to take a public service job for no pay except his or her welfare benefits. 
-Work incentives are decreased by reducing allowable decudctions from earned income; and medical services are cut back while welfare recipients will be forced to pay a portion of the cost. 
-Residency requirements are established, despite supreme Court decisions to the contrary. 
-Federally funded Legal Services Programs will be prevented from challenging any provision of the Social Security Act. 
The Senate approved also a $400 million test program for various welfare plans; but the program is so ill-defined that it might be possible for a state to substitute a test plan -say, Long's scheme to turn welfare recipients into a forced labor pool at sweatshop wages -for the present program. At the least, the test procedure wll set back serious welfare reform for a probable five years. 

McGovern hurt by Peace Plan 
by Jan•~s Reston 
<C> t!lil New York Times 
Washington, Oct. to--The main objection to George McGovern's detailed Vietnam Peace Plan is that it is too specific and too 
ne-sided. Presumably he put it forward ·n the hope of gaining support among the antiwar voters in this country, but he went so far in meeting Hanoi's war aims that he may actually have lost more support by his TV speech than he gained. 
For he offered not only to get out of Vietnam. Laos and Cambodia in 90 days and out of Thailand after our prisoners of war are home and missing are accounted for, but he committed himself to withdraw "all salvageable American military equipment" and "terminate any ~hip­ments of military supplies that contmue the war." 
This is far more than a promise to with­draw all Americans from Indochina within 90 days. It is a threat to withdraw future military aid to Saigon while leaving the Soviet Union and China free to continue sending military arms to Hanoi and the Vietcong. 
baker 
Moreover, Senator McGovern asserts that he would "immediately" stop the bombing and all acts of force upon taking office, but he merely assume;; that this would end the hostilities and "expects" Hanoi will then turn over the prisoners and account for the missing. He does not, however, make this a condition of a general cease-fire. 
There is, of course, a critical question here. For example, it may very well be true that Hanoi will not consider releasing the American prisoners unless Washington agrees not only to stop the bombing and get out of the war, but to halt all military aid to Saigon as well. 
This is the fundamental difference between McGovern's peace plan and the President's. The Senator is willing to take this step and the President isn't, and McGovern offers even more. 
For if he stopped all arms shipments and removed "all salvageable American military equipment"--which could mean all planes that fly, tanks that run and guns that fire--he would, in effect, not only abandon the Thieu Regime but cripple its capacity to carry on the war by itself. 
There are, of course, many critics of the President's war policy such as Former Secretary of Defense Clark Clifford--his private memorandum was the basis of the McGovern speech--who favor this course of action. But there are many others who would merely set a date for getting out and leave Saigon enough arms to defend itself and enough time to make whatever peace it can with Hanoi. 
McGovern put these qeustions to the American people: "Shall we break free at last from General Thieu? Shall we forget about saving face and begin saving the soul o Jour nation? Shall we demonstrate that we are determined to stop the killing and to stand for peace? My answer is yes." 
But surely there is something in between the President's policy of sticking with Thieu indefinitely, and McGovern's policy of not only abandoning Thieu but wounding him on the way out; something in between the President's policy of keeping the American Air Force and Navy engaged in the heaviest sustained bombardment of the century, and McGovern's policy of withdrawaing not only all Americans but "all salvageable American military equipment." 

What we have now is not one un­satisfactory American policy for ending the war in Indochina, but two. The President's policy is endless and heartless, and McGovern's is virtually a formula for surrender. 
Even General Thieu has come up with a better suggestion than either. He has recently told the National Assembly in Saigon: "The Republic of Vietnam is the sole body that has a right to solve the war." 
This is fair enough, but Nixon won't take him up on it, and McGovern won't give him the means to do it. As long as Thieu has the American Air Force and Navy at his back, and isn't given fair warning that they will be withdrawn by a date certain, he's not likely to compromise. But if McGovern takes away not only the Air Force and the Navy but all salvageable military equipment as well, Thieu won't be able to compromise. 
So we have a clear choice now all right, but both the President and the Senator are probably going to have to think again. Nixon has offered us more war at a terrible price, and McGovern has proposed peace at any price, and even in these sad days of; unhappy choices, this is not a very good propositiOn either way. 
•



Presidents' Club 1n utter turmoil 
by Russel Baker ( C > 1!172 New York Times 
Washington, Oct. 11--Many believe that the Presidents' Club is the most exclusive in paradise, although royalty refuse to set foot in the place nowadays. This social awkwardness dates from the occasion, several years ago, when Thomas Jefferson invited King Louis XIV to the Club for lunch and Millard Fillmore refused to stand up when Louis entered the bar. 
This produced a famous quarrel among the members, who never lack for things to quarrel about even in the best of times, and John Adams, who supported Fillmore's position, persuaded the Rules Committee to adopt a regulation for­bidding crowns to be worn beyond the entrance foyer. 
This autumn, interest in the Nixon­McGovern campaign runs fairly high among the members. Indeed, they have talked about little else since Sen. McGovern charged that the Nixon Ad­ministration has been the most corrupt in American history. 
"Bully nonsense!" Theodore Roosevelt declared at the communal lunch table the day after McGovern's assertion was published. "Everybody knows that it was you who had the most ocrrupt ad­ministration in American History, Ulysses," he said to U. S. Grant. "For bully corruption, I always say, nobody could touch bully old U. S. Grant." 
T. R., who is a warm Nixon supporter, enjoys baiting Grant, who is a McGovern man. Grant always supportsthe man who is running against the candidate Theodore Roosevelt supports. This is because Grant can't stand people who say "bully." 
Grant rose angrily from his soup and stamped off to the bar where Franklin Pierce was calling for his third bourbon of the morning. "I wish I'd been in command on top of San Juan Hill when the par­ticular Roosevelt charged," Grant said. 
"Sh!" whispered Bill McKinley. "The old man's here today." 
He nodded toward a shadowed corner table where George Washington was writing a letter to the editor. The founding father despises party politics and will not tolerate its discussion while he is in the room. He greatly admires Spiro Agnew, however, for his attacks on the Press. Almost daily, he writies a letter to the editor deploring President Nixon's decision to suspend Agnew's press attacks for duration of the campaign. 
These letters are never published because the spelling is poor and the Editor doesn't like Spiro Agnew. The editor, on the other hand, always publishes letters from Abraham Lincoln, which intensifies the Founding Father's old dislike for the Emancipator. 
Washington firmly believes that if movie producers had cast Raymond Massey and Henry Fonda as him, instead of as Licnoln, he would today be America's favorite president. 
Not long ago, Lincoln was in the Card Room with Warren Harding discussing the Watergate Burglary. Washington was slumped in a big leather chair, snoringsoftly. 
"Abe, old sport," said Harding, "I want you to inform me with forthright candor utterly unfettered by considerations of past occasions on which we twain have gone out into the country and bloviated--­
"You want me to tell you the truth about 
something, Warren. That is what you are 
trying to say, it is not?" 
"Abe, old sport," said Harding, "do you 
really think the Nixon Administration has 
been more corrupt than mine was?" 

"Waal," said Lincoln, "that reminds me of a story I once heard back in Kentucky. A fellow had a pig named-----" 
Lincoln stopped in midsentence, for the Founding Father had risen from his doze and was standing over his two successors in towering fury. "The truth Lincoln!" the old gentleman sputtered. "The man asked you for the truth. When somebody asks you for the truth he doesn't want you to be reminded of a story. He doesn to hear to hear about pigs. He doesn't want tohear some damn fool nonsense about not being able to fool all of the people all of the time. He wants the truth." And he stormed out, almost knocking down Woodrow Wilson at the door. 
We have all this ill-assorted information about what goes on in the Presidents' Club from eavesdropping devices placed there secretly by a crew of volunteers using funds from the Committee for the Re­Election of President Nixon. 
It can be said on good authority that if Nixon is re-elected, Ulysses S. Grant will have a lot of trouble getting anyone at the White House at answer his phone calls. The same fate awaits Lincoln if he lets his guard down and stops telling pig stories. 
' · ..q,..
·.. ,; ·:;,....,, ......... 

-·-----........~.......... ···--------··-'----~­
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~­
8 

the observer Thursday, October 12, 1972 
Toiletry items average 13c more 
Report shows bookstore higher than A&:P 
by Sup Prendergast Clarke explained his purpose in "Compared throughout the store, 
Observer Staff Reporter compiling the report: "It's just a dollar for dollar, on an everyday 
service to the students--to inform basis, you'll get as much in here as 
Checked out the bookstore's them of the price differential in any store in Michiana." prices lately? Student Government between the bookstore and another Br. Moran cited the limited research and development com­businessin the community. It's not scope of Clarke's report as a 
missioner Jim Clarke found that especially intended to ridicule the drawback to its credibility. He also campus prices on selected toiletry bookstore. Students themselves noted that the price differential itemsaverage13 cents higher than may choose where to shop for their between the two stores was not in a nearby grocery store. toiletries." consistent--varvim! from ten cents 
less at the bookstore for Jergen's

Director defends soap to fifty cents more forClarke's informal report com­Dristan. 
pares prices on 11 brands sold at 

the Notre Dame bookstore" and the Bookstore director Br. Conan He suggested that lower prices A& P located about a mile from Moran disagreed with the results at the A & P reflect the frequent campus. of the Student Government report. use of these items as "leaders", 
Student Government compares prices 
Product Bookstore A&P Difference in Price 
Crest Toothpaste (7.0 oz.)  $ .89  $ .77  $ .12  
Right Guard (5.0 oz.)  1.18  1.19 (7.0 Ol.)  
Mennen Skin Bracer  .90  .89  .01  
Jergens Soap (4.75 oz}  .10  .11  -.01  
Dristan (50 tablets)  2.59  2.09  .so  
Gillette Trac II (5 carts.)  1.10  .98  .12  
Vicks Vapo-Rub (1.3 oz.)  .65  .53  .12  
Head and Soulders (1.7 oz.)  .73  .73  .00  
(2.7 oz.)  1.00  .89  .11  
(4.3 oz.)  1.59  1.59 (4.0 Ol.)  
Prell Concentrate (3 oz.}  .99  .89  .10  
(5 oz.)  1.39  .93  .46  
Jergens Lotion (4.0 oz.)  .59  .69  -.10  
(15 Ol.)  1.69  1.47  .22  
rota I  $15.39  $ 13.57  
Note:  Kleenex Americana (125 2 _  Kleenex facial tissue (200 2 ply) at  
ply)  at  35  cents  compared  to  32 cents.  

bargains which attract people to the store. As an example, he remarked that "grocery stores often sell washing soap for less than they buy it. Obviously, they have to make up this loss somewhere else in the store. If you check us out, we also have leaders and specials sometimes." 
A & P's ability to buy larger volumes of goods also makes a "great difference," Moran said. "The bookstore and the A & P are two different places: prices at local drug stores would probably be comparable to ours." 
Clarke reacted to Moran's statement saying, "I realize that 
A& P's prices are bound to be lower, but I don't think the differential should be as much as 13 cents. 
Possible co-op 
Some of the grocery store items were priced below base price, while most of the others were right on it-Clarke noted that "You can see that many of the manufac­turer's suggested prices have been tagged over by the bookstore. 
"The traditional rationale--that of raising prices for alumni, thus benefiting the school and preventing a tuition increase--just does not apply here," Clarke said. "These items constitute the everyday necessities of all students at Notre Dame." 
Clarke suggested the possibility of establishing a student co-op to compete with the bookstore. "Our biggest problem will be to get approval from the University." 
All of the students interviewed concurred with Clarke's 
evaluation of bookstore prices and aoolauded the idea of a student co-op,. 
Student views 

"I realize the bookstore is not a discount store and therefore does not offer discount prices, but it would benefit the students to have lower prices on necessary items. Unless students have cars, they are just about stuck on campus, and the bookstore does have a monopoly because of its con­venience and its proximity.'' commented sophomore Marlene Zloza 
Graduate student John Hoffman said, "The selection is very limited and prices tend toward the top end of the line. Once in a while you find a bargain, but it's the exceptionrather than the rule." 
"The prices are outrageous; I 
would never buy anything there!" 
declared off-campus senior 
Steve Mcintee. 

Sophomore Chip Romer said 
that he refused to shop there 
because of the prices. 

"I don't buy anything there but books, and ,never will-it's a rip-off!_ I don't care if they raise the price of T -shirts on football weekends, bl}t to exploit the students ... !" commented Elen Syburg, freshman. . 
Most of these students indicated !hat they would probably buy more rf the bookstore prices were lower . 
Freshman Sheila Fahey remarked, "I have to buy everythinglhereno matter what the price--1 have neither the time nor the transportation togo downtown. But I might not have to save as long to buy my soap." 

Girls are 

Plouff: As winter starts, more girls will use ACC facilities. 
"They are not exactly beating down the doors," said Mr Dominic Napolitano. head of Notre Dame's Non-Varsity Soorts" Program and boxing coach of 40 years. He was referring to the Notre Dame women's use of the Atheletic and Convocation Center. 
The girls have complete and unrestricted access to the facility, according to Napolitano, but as yet there has been little response. The university has added female shower and toilet facilities to one of the intramural locker rooms and employed Mrs. Roberts as head of feminine atheletic activities in an 

•
not USlng ACC 
effort to encourage Notre Dame's 
women to use the university's 
multi-million dollar sports com­
plex. But as of yet, the turn-out has 
been sparce. 

Mr. Plouff, ACr business 
manager, also stressed the ac­
cessibility of the sports center to 
women and added "maybe the 
weather is colder and the girls are 
more acclimated. they will start to 
take better advantage open to 
them." 

Mrs. Roberts in conjunction with Napolitano and his assistant Tim Kelley, have set up a number of atheletic activities. these activities include a tennis tournament, coed volleyball, basketball and swimming. 
With regards to the establish­ment of Club Sports for women, Napolitano said that no budget allowances have been made. However, he added that any student athletic. club on campus must sustain itself for one yea r before it can petition the Non­Varsity Sports Program for aid in furnishing equipment and traveling expenses. Even then each club must raise most of its own money because the budget for non-varsity club sports allows only around $1,000 for an organization. 

Student 
SENATE MEETING 

Tonight! 
8:00 pm, Senate Chambers IMPORTANT 
Ifwomen wish to organize sports clubs, and are willing to meet the same obligations the other clubs must, Napolitano said that his department would be more than willing to hear their petitions and help in the organization. 



VOTE 
CARL G. BITLER 
FOR Freshman Class President 

"He wants to serve you" 
COUNTRY LIQUOR ·Same Price • 
~.~.........··.,iJ,;~f ...iJ/§•~

TOWN & COUNTRY SHOPPING CENTER ~···..;;.;:~):·tJ?W. ~-~-. 






Student ticket-exchange program for Missouri 
The Student Ticket-Exchange Program that enabled hundreds of underprivilige children from the South Bend area to see a football game in each of the last two years will run again this year for the Missouri game under the direction of senior B .J. Bingle of Morrissey Hall. 
Bingle listed three ways in which students could contribute to the success of what he called "a most worthy program." First, the program needs about 700 student football tickets. which are being handled much the same as for the Navy game last year and the Georgia Tech game two years ago. Students may donate their tickets at the second floor ticket window of the Athletic and Convocation Center next Monday and Tuesday from 9 am to 4 pm. 
In addition to the tickets, Bingle said drivers and monitors for the spectators are needed. A meeting is scheduled for 7 pm Monday for drivers. Tuesday, monitors will meet. Both groups will get together in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Any students having questions or wishing to help should contact B.J. Bingle in Room 101 Morrissey, Phone 3448. 
In its first year of operation two years ago, the ticket exchange program enabled 700 South Bend vouths to see Notre Dame beat Georgia Tech, as the Irish sept to nine straight victories under the direction of All-American Joe Theismann. Last year, over 900 students gave up their tickets so that the under priviliged children could see Notre Dame beat Navy, 21-0. 


FOSSIL FUELED & 
Heller 
by Marty Miller
, 

Erich Heller brought to life the 
character of Franz Kafka, the 
noted twentieth centure short story 
writer and novelist from Prague. 
when he addressed a capacity 
crowd at Saint Mary's little 
Theatre, yesterday. 
Dr. Heller, professor of Humanitiies at Northwestern Universzity, began the lecture by pointing out Kafka's Manichean attitude towards life, by using certain aphorisms of Kafka. 
Kafka oelieved that the only reality is the spiritual world and that the material world is an evil trying to destroy the one true reality according to Heller. Therefore there exists a struggle between the spiritual elf and the world. 
"There can be knowledge of the diabolical, but there can be no belief in it, for 
Meal lines to 
by Joseph Abell "Other people also complained that they couldn't go to lines that were shorter than the ones they
Starting Monday, Notre Dame were in," Kelly added, "so we students may eat at any part of decided to try this out." 
their dining halls, not just to their 
assigned line, announced Kathy Kelly, Notre Dame Food Com­mittee member. 
The program will be an "in­definite experiment," she said, and its continuance will depend onThis decision stemmed from a the success of the first few weeks.
complaint from four Notre Dame She emphasized that the progrm students that they could not eat did not involve exchanging dining meals with friends assigned to halls, but operated with the North other lines. 
Thursday, October 12, 1972 the observer 
9 
•



rev1ves 

there can be nothing more diabolical than what exists," wrote Kafka. 
Heller also stated the goal that Kafka set for himself. "If I ever succeed in lifting the world into a sphere pure, true, unchangeable, inother words, absolute, with my writing, then I shall be satisified," said Kafka. 
Kafka referred to his work as a form of prayer, and he felt for­saken by God when he couldn't produce literature, said heller. " ... I don't have an interest in literature," wrote Kafka, "I am literature." 
Dr. Heller added that no writer has ever made such demands on literature. Kafka.s only reason for living was to attain this goal. He believed that art (literature) could cleanse the spiritual world by absolute perfection of languate, according to Heller "Josephine" a story by Kafka was cited as an example of this attempt. 
NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS 
v For more information re: campus in­... terviews contact the placement office or write directly to: Mr. Edward 
J. Devin, Stone & Webster Engineering Corporati&n, P .0. Box 2325, Boston, Mass. 02107 
We are an equal opportunity employer. 
NEW YORK 

LONDON 
For the Following Disciplines: 
MECHANICAL ELECTRICAL CIVIL ENVIRONMENTAL CHEMICAL NUCLEAR CONSTRUCTION 

Stone & Webster Engineering builds Professional Engineers. Join the pioneer and leader in the field of nuclear and fossil fueled power generation. You'll find a challenging opportunity at Stone & Webster to grow professionally day by day. You'll be working on projects of major scope, solving the nation's increasing energy requirements. You'll be part of a team that has made environmental engineering an essential part of its activities from preliminary planning to detailed engineering. 
Our representatives will be on campus 
Friday, October 20 



~~!~~!! !!!!~!~o~ 
BOSTON CHICAGO HOUSTON LOS ANGELES PARIS THE HAGUE TORONTO 
Kafka 
"Kafka's world is so vexing to us because his stories take place in a world that has an existence in it­self, and can't be translated into our rational world. He tells us something utterly fantastic in the manner of reporting a matter of fact incident." said heller. 
Dr. Heller also mentioned taht Psychoanalysis has been used as a method for understanding Kafka's works. One example is the reoc­curing theme of the tension bet­ween the father and son in many of his stories. But Heller commented taht this Freudian approach can be easily over; exaggerated. The father was seen by Dr. Heller to be a symbol of authority in a world where God's authority is missing. 
In his final commenrs to his one hour presentation, Dr. Heller compared Franz Kafka to the Hunger Artist who wouldn't eat because he couldn't find the food he liked. Kafka had a spiritual appetite, and the world could not possibly feed it. 
change 
and South Dining Halls in­
dividually. 
"There wasn't much demand for that <exchanging dining halls)," she said, citing a light response to the Scholastic's and the Ob­server's ballots printed last week. 
The proposal was passed at yesterday's regular meeting of the Food Committee, and was im­mediately approved by the Food Services. 
___j 

~ . 
I 
10 
the observer Thursday, October 12, 1972 
Migrants' legal firm sues Cabinet members 

by William Robbins <cl 1972 New York Times 

Washington, Oct 11 --Two cabinet officers and their depart· ments were charged in a lawsuti filed today with using public research funds to cater to the in­terests of giant a'gricultural cor­porations and slighting others whom their programs were in­tended to serve. 
The suit, filed by the Migrant Legal Action Program Inc., a public-interest law association, named secretarty of agriculture Earl L. Butz and secretarty of Health, Education and Welfare Elliott L. Richardson. It said that $750 million a year appropriated for research at land-grant universities and related institiions was used primarily to develop technology that benefited mainly the big corporations and the 


F.B.I. uncovers neW' 
by Patrick Collins and Joseph Volz 
<cl 1972 Washington Star-News 
Washington, Oct. 11 -A former 

congressional investigator was 
employed by a Watergate bugging 
suspect and by the security firm 
guarding the bulding which houses 
the Democratic National Com­
mittee, the F.B.I. says. 
Louis James Russell, 54, has told 

F.B.I. agents he was across the streetfrom the Watergate a few hours before his boss, James McCord, then the chief Security Adviser for the Nixon Campaign, and four others were arrested inside the Democratic Headquarters. 
Russel, Chief Investigator for the house un-american activities committee when Richard Nixon was a member two decades ago, said he was having a late-night snack at Howard Johnson's restaurant because he ahd a ,.$\!ntimental" attachment to the place. Russel said he once went with a gif't ~ho used the Watergate Beauty Salon. 
"We.ve often ate lunch there at the Howard Johnson's," Russel said, "and I went back the Howard Johnson's," Russel said, "and I went back that night to think about the good times we had." 
In an interview last night, Russell said F.B.I. agents have "tried to get me to say I was a look out that night, but I don't know 
Expressions of regret 
continued from page 3 

Laird added that a SAM-2, the kind of missile used by North Vietnam, has a warhead which amounts to about 1,000 pounds. 
"It's about like two 5()()-pound bombs. There are ways of detonating that head of the SAM's missile before it impacts, but sometimes there are faulty problems,"he said. 
"I can assure you that the damage is regretted and we will certainly check into the matter but on the basis of the-preliminary pilot reports, I cannot state with certainty that it was a fulty bomb drop or· that it was antiaircraft weaponry that impact on this particular building," Laird said. 
"We do not target any non­military targets," he said. 
"We do not target downtown Hanoi. This railroad yard and trans-shi men.t. point was a 
VOTE FLAMINGO 
JOHN SIERAWSKI--PRES. BRIAN CARROLL--V. PRES. KEVIN O'MARA--SEC. MARK PIETRYKOWSKI--$$$ 
truly a significant military target. It was a marshaling area for logistic supplies carried by railroad transportation," Laird adeeeeded. 
Other expressions of r:egret were made at the State Department today by Richard D. Vine, Director of West European Affairs, to Emanuel de Margerie, the Minister of the French Embassy, and in Paris by Ambassador Ar­thur K. Watson to Herve Alphand, the Secretary General of the French 
Other expressions of regret were mar t the State Depart­ment toda. : Richard D. Vine, Director of West European Affairs, to Emanuel De Margerie, the Minister of the French Embassy, and in Paris by Ambassador Ar­thur K. Watson to Herve Alphand, the Secretary General of the French Foreign Minister. 
biggest farmers. 
The suit was filed in federal district court here by the migrant program in behalf of six other organizations and 12 individuals who contended that theirs were among farm interests slighted 

Meanwhile, the Federal Court ordered the Agriculture Depart­ment today to halt future subsidy payments to Louisiana sugar planters utnil a new wage scale to Louisiana sugar planters until a · new wage scale is dtawn up for Canefield workers. 
Defense lawyers said as far as they kenw this was the first time a court had ever suspended subsidy payments because of wage claims by workers. 
The complaint sought a per­manent injunction against the use of federal funds for the land-grant programs until new operating rules were laid down. 
anything about what McCord was doing in the Watergate." (McCord 

· allegedly used a room on the fourth floor of the motel to monitor bugging devices on the phones at Democratic Headquarters.) Russel said F.B.I. agents told him "they didn't believe my story." However, Russell siad, he was never called before a grand jury. 
He worked fo the General Security Services Co., whose clients include the Watergate office building. F. Kelly Cham­berlain, Chief of the Guard Force, said Russell did private in­vestigations for the firm, but he had no responsiblitiysfor Watergate security. 
Chamberlain said Russell worked for General Security for about a year before leaving last April. 
-Russell first went to work part­time for James McCord last February, running security checks on personnel hired by the Nixon re­election committee. 
Russel told tqe Star-News last night the personnel apparently had been hired without being checked. His job was to run background investigations on employes already ., the payroll becuause Specifically, it demanded that 
the policy making and advisory 
system for land-grant university 
research include spokesmen for 
independent farmers, farm­
workers, consumers, en­
vironmentalists and other rural 
interests affected by l~;tnd-grant 

research. 
About 70 universities and realted 
agricultural experiment stations 

wouJct oe affected. Research at 
such institutions is financed jointly 
by state and federal funds. 
Among the complaints in the suit were charges that the deparments of agriculture and H.E.W. have been guilty of violation of civil rights laws, discrimination in employment and in distribution of benefits and grants. 
It also demenaded that more 

funds be directed from develop­
ment of farm machinery and 
pesticides into such programs as 



evidence 

there was a theft problem at Nixon 
Campaib'l Headquarters. 
He said one employe had lost a 

watch. 
.. Once they learned I was around, the watch suddenly ap­peared," Russell said. He said some whiskey was taken too, but it was never returned. 
Russel said he was also assigned to scan underground newspapers, such as the quicksilver Times, to discover any "hippie groups which might demonstrate at the Republican National Convention." 
He said he pointed outpotential troublemakers to McCord, whom he described as a "good American," unjustly maligned. Russell said McCord apparently hired him on the recommendations of two prominent Republican friends. 
He contacted McCord after the break-in and was told he was out of a job, although he has since done some other work for McCord. 
Beginning in June, Russell 





THE GUESS WHO 
plus White Trash 
THIS SATURDAY October 14 Showtime-8:30 
Some good seats still available 
at the ACC Box Office (9-5 daily) Box Office located at Gate 1 0. 
-

All chair seats ..... $5.50 Bleachers ..... $3.00 
...'J!f!'~
¥' ~ ' 
J 

CANADA ROCKS! 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
job training and job placemnt to benefit Ia borers displaced by mechanization. 
The organizations for whom the lawsuit was filed ar ethe National Coalition for Land-Grant Reform, the National Sharecroppers Fund Inc.; Georgia Council on Human Relations, the Midwest Council of La Raza and the National Con­sumers League. 
The allegations in the suit were based onfindings of study made here and on college campuses by a public interest research group, the Agribusiness Accountability Project. The findings were published ina book-length report last spring, and a series of senate hearings followed. 
That report charge that the universities, created under the Morrill Acto of 1862, had strayed so far from their missions of aid to farmers, rural communities and 
•

Jn Watergate suit 
worked full-time at Nixon Cam­committee. paign Headquarters at 1701 Since the break-in June 17,
Pennsylvania Ave., N.W., as the Russell has moved from one-room 
night security manager. He said $15-a-week flat in a rooming house 
the committee decided to beef up in the 1700 block of QSt. N.W. to a 
its security after a building guard $185-a-month furnished apartment 
was discovered asleep on the job. 
in suburban Silver Spring, Md. 

Russell said he guarded the Russell says a benefactor has not 
second floor. His main duty was to only allowed him use of the check out the closed-circuit TV 
apartment but has provided him 
bought by McCord. 

with a car and often takes him out to dinner at expensive restaurants. 
A spokesman for Nison's re­election committee said last night Russell said he is working part-he did not know whether Russell time, doing free lance in-was ever employed directly by the vestigations. 
NOTRE DAME-ST. MARYS THEATRE 
presents 
THE LION IN WINTER 
James Goldman's witty, intelligent comedy. O'Laughlin Auditorium St. Mary's Campus October6, 7, 12, 13, 14at8:30p.m. Students $1.50 Phone Reservations 284-4176 (Season subscriptions still available -5 plays $6.50) 
consumers that they often injured many of the people they were in­tended to serve. As a result, it said, they had contributed to troubles in rural areas that prompted migration to the cities and resulting problems there. 
Aside from concentration on technology to the virtual exclusion o other needs charged by the study, it found what it called a "cozy" relationship between university researchers and the corporations. 
Among projects on which criticism was focused were several, such as the development of a factory at Cornell University that tests manufacturing methods for food processors. 
The study also charged that food products, such as hard tomatoes, were often bred for their resistance to mechanical handling, with little regard for quality or food value. 

Thursday, Oct. 12, 1972 the observer 1 1 

CLASSIFIED· ADS


SMC Assembly action 
by Andy Schilling 
Observer Staff Reporter 
The Saint Mary's Student Assembly tabled discussion yesterday concerning a proposal that all Saint Mary's students receive a subscription to the Ob­server. Discussion centered on whenher the Assembly should allocate $2600 from the Student Government funds to the Observer to pay for a subscription for each of St. Mary's 1300 students. 
At the meeting, Student Body Treasurer Nan Albers said she was opposed to the allocation, saying that St. Mary's does not receive \300 papers, and St. Mary-s is not represented enough in the Ob­serve!·. 
Student Body Vice President 
Susan Welte said that it boiled 
down to a question of whether each 
student should decide to pay for the 
Observer on her own, or whether 
the Assembly should decided that 
all students would pay for a sub-
VIP meeting 
Volunteers In Probation <VIP), a student organization working with South Bend youths on Juvenile Court probation, will hold an orientation meeting tonight at 8 
p.m. in room 20 of LaFortune Student Center. 
VIP is a volunteer organization that is establishing a one-<>n-<>ne program of working with youths on probation. At the meeting tonight, the film "One More Chance" will be presented. 
Any students with questions concerning VIP or who would like to help but cannot make the meeting should contact Bob Stockoff at 288-8836. 

Chess finale 
the Chess Club -Observer Chess tournament enters its final rou~:d today. No results or pairings were available at the time of publication because of late matches. 
All pairings will be announced directly before final round play begins 7:00 tonight in the La Fortune Rathskellar. Awards will 
be ginen after the concludes tonight.  final  round  
Le•aders after the rounds of play are:  first  seven  

Piere Espenan (6.5 wins vs. 1.5 losses l, Steve Pettit <6-1), Loring Hannah <6-1), Chris Kohlmiller <5.5-1.5) and John Kelley (5.5-1.5). 

Welte: Question of who should pay 
scnption using money from their student government fee. 
It was decided to table discussion of the proposal until next week, so that Assembly members might obtain the opinions of their constituency. 
Have experience and pay well. Call: 1609

Bugs!! 
I need a roomate 2 headed, anything. 233.1329. Private. Gorgeous. Keep trying. 
Needed: TCU Tl X 2 general admission. Call 7819 
Need 4 General Admission tickets for TCU Need not be together. Call John 1605 
Need Missouri Tix Call 234·6802 
Need 1gen. ad. ticket to TCU call 3521 
Desperately need ride for HTH from Milwaukee to Notre Dame this Fri. and return ride to Milwaukee Sunday Call 8573 
Need ride to Cincinnati October 13, PI ease call 4354 
Need 3·4 non ·Student tickets for Missouri. call 1244 
Wanted: tickets to Notre Dame . 
!or Miami. call 1487, Hawkeye

National candidate on campus 
Wanted: typing, themes, manuscripts. call Jane Smith 233.6909 . 
FOR SALE 
3 student Pitt tix for sale·3252 
Period ?·drawer Walnut kneehole, desk with matching chair $40.00 259 9659 
'67 Ford 6, 4 door, automatic, call Walt. 233·8176 
For Sale 1969 Triumph GTG+ red, six cylinder, 4·speed, very good condition $1,650 call anytime after 5 289·1794 
For sale: Gibson electric guitar. 
call 283·1620 
Must sell: 701 2 firebird 400, ex. cellent condition, extremely low mileage, air, AM·FM, 4-on·floor, 
+ t-Must drive, see. $2600 or best offer call 6588 or 272·6225 
19631mpala. Autopower,air,V·8 A·l Mechanically. 21.000 original miles 259·9766 
1967 Dodge Coronet v.8, deluxe, power steering, brakes, radio. 44,000 miles.call 272·1770 after 
3:00 or weekend. 
2 Senior student Pitt tix for sale also ·need beds for weekend. we have 5 spaces availagle call George or Mark at 289·5960 
2 Guess who tickets section C Row 11 Also 1 Pitt student ticket chone. 6322 

Everyone loves a politician on campus. 
For Sale: New VW tires on rims 4. $60 Dave 232·6882 
Chevy Impala 66, extremely good condition. one family car. call Holy Cross House. 283·6337 
PERSONAL 

Dear Lynn, Everything will turn out just fine, I'm sure! Cas 
All birds have wings and some have bills can you imagine a wing with a bill? I can. Winger 
Such a deal I've got for ya ·another Italian with an Un-Refusable Offer.DQ's MAGIC BOTTLE· the SWIRLING WAVE WILL AMAZE YOU CURIOUS (yellow, blue, green all colors) anysize, SUPER CHEAP too! Interested then SPIN THE BOTTLE and call THE DAIRY QUEEN of SKOKIE 5117 or stop by Sundays ·QUEENS 
COURT rm. 266 LeMans 
LOST AND FOL1ND 

Lost: Gold omega watch, in· scribed. call 3046 
Lost car keys at Saint Mary's please call Bobi 1073 
Lost at pep rally: keys on. wooden disk. Jan 6953 
found: round, gold framed glasses in black case. Found on Bulla Road. call 283·6521 
NOTICES 

Typing: Essay.term paper ·thesis desertation·technica\ or research report· we do them professionally, efficiently, and reasonably. Expert Secretarial Service. 2339 
SENIORS! Last chance to return yearbook phot proofs! Friday, October 13, 2·C LaFortune, 11·3. QQUESTIONS, CALL ~a?-S!a 
Party All Graduate and Law students (GSU) Saturday night Carroll Hall· 7:30 ·Bud & Dancing 
$1.00 per person 
Need a part time job? Bus boys needed. $2.00 hour. Apply at Summit club, 25 floor American Natl. Bank. 
Student discounts on new Westinghouse compact Refrigerators spacious 44 cu.ft. capacity. factory warranty, immediate 
HELP the helpless unborn, with time, money or both. Right ·to. Life, Inc. 233·4295 
Grad School and job application photos taken 12·1 daily in off. campus office. For more info call 283-8491 
Europe is alive and warm and unclouded this Christmas. Let us take you there. You'll find it incredibly inexpensive. British Overseas Airways Corporation. Call Clark 283.8810 for details. 
Morrissey Loan Fund. Borrow up to $150. La Fortune Basement. Open 11:15.12:15 Monday thru Fri. 
Those who feel they have psychic abilities and are interested in participating in parapsychology experiment, contact Gil 1067 
TED WILSON RALLY Saturday, October 14th 8 o'clock to ? Live orchestra Black and Chicano Theater Roast pig, barbequed chicken, etc. All the beer you can drink and all the food you can eat for $2.00 Tickets: phone 282·1186 
ACTION HAS JOBS 
Notre Dame juniors and seniors, the Peace Corps and Vista recruiters will be on campus October 913, with tables in the Bibrary concourse all week, the Placement office on Thursday and the Architecture building on 
Thursday and Friday. If you are looking for the best way to go In the future and will have a degree or high skill in engineering, ar· chitecture, business, education or math and general science, visit the ACTION recruiters. There is a place for you in the world. 
Words lda 2da 3da 4da 5da 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11·15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1-95 1.15 1.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 
l• 
-
Miss Welte also announced that St. Mary's will celebrate its 128th birthday tomorrow, October 12. Three lectures will be given on the Role of Woman in todav's worlf. The College archives will be opened for student opservation, and the day will culminate with Dr. Henry cutting a birthday cake in the dining hall at 5 p.m. 
St. Mary's also hopes to have its Student Center opened by Halloween. Miss Welte expressed hopes that an open house might be held beforehand to acquaint faculty and administration with the new center. The open house depends on how far work has progressed. 
Student bike registration will begin soon. Rigistration, which is optional, costs 50 cents. It was also announced that an inspection of all bikes at St. Mary's is mandatory and that a light or retlector is necessary to pass inspection. 
WANTED 
Desperately need a ride to Chicago this Friday and a ride back on Sunday phone Scott 1791 
Wanted: Acoustic Guitar in good condition for under ! ! s;a? CALL 
Pete 8810 
N€ed ride to and back NYC or 
Conn. Can leave Thur.Fri. Will share $. call 3508 
Have 2 G.A. Pitt tickets. Will trade for 2 G.A. tickets to any other home game. call Jim 3256 
Desperately need 4 TCU tickets phone 287.6010 
Need 2 Gen. Admission TCU tickets Call Frank 1943 
Desperately need 4 Gen. ad· mission tickets to Pittsburgh. Call Tom 6848 
Want 4 Gen. Adm. tix for Missouri or T.C.U. 8918 
Easy Rider needs a bike (500 cc or larger) for wknd. of Oct 20·22 


by Mary Janca 
Observer Staff Reporter 
The new Theatrical Manager of the Saint Mary's speech and drama department is Michael Hehak, 1971 Notre Dame graduate and author of last year's award­winningplay Judas Christ. 
Rehak's responsibilities include maintenance of the two theaters, as well as supervision and technical aspects of production, such as lighting and sound. 
"The main thing I'm trying to do," hhe explained, "is get the theaters running in the best and easiest fashion." In the past, stated Rehak. there had been 
difficulty in getting everything running smoothly. 
More important to Rehak than his formal duties is his career as a playwright. He has written several plays, the most familiar to ND-SMC students being Judas Christ, which was staged at St. Mary's last spring and won the Mitchell Award for Play-Writing. 
Recently, one of Rehak's other other works was shown at the Univerisyt of Michiga, and he is about to begin work on a new play. 
In his writing, he concluded that, "what is most important is how the audience responds to the play, and not the critics." 

Texas Christian Game call 289 1163 
Need ride to Dayton for two. Week·end of Oct. 13. call 1244 
How about a couple Missouri tix? 
G.A. call Pat 3610 
Will Trade 2 TCU or 2 Pitt tickets for 2 Missouri or 2 Miami or will pay $$ (big) call 259.2242 
Need up to 5 G.A. tickets to Missouri call Frank 8849 
Desperately need 4 general ad· mission Missouri tickets. Call 
Kim 8066 
Need 2 G.A. Missouri tix call 1824 
Wish to return student football ticket·Piease call 4904.1dentify 
Desperately  need  2  Gen.  Ad­ 
mission tickets to Missouri.  call  
6701  

Wanted: 3 genreal admission tix 



! L 
Thursday, October 12, 1972
the observer

12 
Musuraca --maturing with time 
panic. 
But Jim Musuraca; one of the three returnees, dismissed these fears, maintaining, "We have the athletes for a good defense. What we did in practice against our teammates wasn't the same as being up for a game." Musuraca summed up his confidence with the truism: "Good defense is a Notre Dame tradition." 
Yet even Jim, for all his faith. did not expect the Irish defense to be as stingy as it has. "It's been a pleasant surprise. These are great guys with a lot of enthusiasm, and the've been making few mistakes." 
Linebackers have played a key role in this year's solid defensive play. as seen in the performances of Musuraca against Michigan State and of teammate Jim O'Malley against Northwestern. The reason is experience, and Musuraca has some 247 minutes worth from last year. plus crucial action in the 1971 Cotton Bowl. 
Experience, for the 6-o, 214 pound senior. has meant greater maturity on the field. "It is im­portant to learn patience as a linebacker. not to penetrate too 
quickly. This takes time to Unt>backer Jim Musuraca pulls down an interception 
overcome. since it involves 

Notre Dame obtained the Michigan 
overcoming the natural urge to get 
State and Purdue Wishbone at-
in the play in a hurry. In short, you 
tacks with a combination of 
must be neither overly aggressive 
Cheerleaders offer SC trip 
Notre Dame's cheerleading squad is sponsoring a student trip to ND's final football game of the 1972 season--a December 2nd matchup against Southern California's Trojans, at Los Angeles. 
The travel package offered by the cheerleaders includes for $195.00, air transportation from South Bend to Los Angeles, a Disneyland trip, hotel accommodations, a pre­game rally party (courtesy of the 
L.A. Alumni clubl, transportation to and from the Los Angeles 
Irish host cross country meet 
National powers Bowling Green "We'll have some of the best and Western Michigan and sur-teams in the Midwest and several prising Ball State head an out-nationally ranking runners," said standing 28-team . field that will veteran Irish coach Alex Wilson, compete in the 17th annual Notre who will retire in December. Dame Invitational cross country Wilson will be honored at halftime meet Friday afternoon. of Saturday's Notre Dame vs defenses. "We used the standard or "slide" defense a lot against State, but we really stopped them with the "Invert" the defense we used against Texas in the Cotton Bowl." 

Looking ahead to Pittsburgh another team using the Wishbone: Musuraca offered that the Pan-Northwestern, and his first chocie, Notre Dame. 'I was looking for a small school with a high academic rating, and Notre Dame sort of sold itself." 
Jim reflected the spirit of the 1972 Irish when, asked of his personal goals this season, replied "I guess everyone on defense, myself included, wants to make a lot of tackles. But what's really 
Hoene joins N D ice staff 
Kevin Hoene, one of the pioneers assisting Smith again this year will of the modern era of college be Tim McNeill. hockey at Notre Dame, will return this winter as an assistant coach, Hoene, a Duluth, Minn. native Irish athletic director Edward scored over 100 points in thr~ 
(Moose) Krause announced today. years of varsity competition to "He'll make agood player and establish himself as a leader in leader," said Irish head coaches every Notre Dame offensive 
Charles (Lefty) Smith. Also statistical category. 
Buy two 
Copies of 
Avialable Tonight 
at 

the dining halls 
I~~~~ ~::;!:u!~UE, I 
!~~~ 1 semester -$1.50 on campus/ !i!i !j~j[ $3.00 by mail J i11i I year -$2.75 on campus/ \\\\ @: $8.00 by mall :~~~ 
!~\t DeUvered to your door :~~~ 
Ji: Send To· { !m: The O~erver u t
::::: ~•ofre Dame, Ind. :::~
:::::Name .::=~ 
~\~j ili~! 
:~:: Address ::::: 
J~~l :l1~ '===:!R====~~============================~========:=======:!:======================================!::====:t=m====:::=J· 
important is to get a shutout every game. When Purdue scored in the last quarter, I was really down about it. We let down and lost the shutout." 
On Saturday, Jim and his mates have a chance to make amends and post a second consecutive shutout, as well as prove the Irish defense's effectiveness against the pass. 
by Lefty Ruschmann 

Remember those horror stories about the Notre Dame defense which circulated before the season? The prospect of only three returning starters, a green secondary, and the type of spotty play seen in scrimmages was enough to send many fans into nor overly passive." 
Aside from mellowing Jim, experience has also exposed him to a great deal of the Wishbone-T offense. "We can pretty well guess what a team is going to do with it," explained Musuraca, "and if we don't make mistakes like missing assignments, we can contain it." 

Coliseum, ND-USC game tickets, and a post-game party. 
The charter flight will leave South Bend for Los Angeles at 9 am on Friday. December 1st, and will return to South Bend at 10 pm on Sunday, December 3rd. 
A $20.00 deposit--due Tuesday­will be asked of anyone desiring tickets, and the balanced will be due on November 1st. Tickets will be sold on a first-come, first­served basis. 
For further information, contact Charlie Morrisson <202 Holy Cross) at 3122. 
Pittsburgh football game. The five-mile test will start at 2 pm <E.S.T.) on the burke memorial golf Course at the University of Notre Dame. Bowling Green, the Central Collegiate champions and the only team to finish in the top ten in the NCAA finals last year in addition to Oregon and Villanova won the team title last year with Western Michigan second. The host Irish were sixth. Defending champion and Olympic gold medal winner Dave Wottle of Bowling Green (24:02) has graduated but the Falcons have another outstanding runner in Steve Danforth, 33rd in the NCAA last year. Ball State, however, anchored by Steve Wynder, toppled Bowling Green 26-29 in a recent dual meet. The Cardinals are 4-1 overall. Ball State won the Big State meet a year ago with Notre Dame placing second, Wynder was third in the ND meet with a 24:07 effort while Bowling Green's Damforth placed fifth in 24: 12. Two others who figure to challenge for the individual title are Dan Dunne of Notre Dame and Bob Kauffman of Southeast Missour State. Dunne won the Michigan State dual meet two weeks ago with a 31:27 six-mile effort while Kauffman has run a 
24:05 five mile this fall. Heading the list of challengers is 5-1 Central Michigan, Western Michigan, Purdue and the University of Michigan. Other 
entries include Ashland (0.) College, Aquinas, Augustana thers would open things up more than the B1g Ten teams had done. "You can look for Pitt to come out 
throwing. They're more wide open than a straight Wishbone team, and they'll give our pass defense a good test." 
Although Musuraca has played nothing but defense since coming to Notre Dame, he described his role on the East Liverpool, Ohio, High School team as a "utility man." Jim explained, "Our school was so small that in case of injury, the coach was forced to switch his men on the field. I would end up everywhere --tailback and fullback on offense, and I played defensive end, monsterman, and linebacker as well." 
Sought after by the top-name colleges, Musuraca narrowed his choices down to Michigan, Duke, 







