On The ·Inside 
China charges the United States with prolonging the Vietnam war ... page 3 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Monday, March 20, 1972 
Vol. VI, No. 103 

Scholastic names new editor .... page 3 Soledad Brothers await trial end, 
... .page 4 

-----------------------------------~-----------------------~-~------------. 
the observer Monday, March 20, 1972
2 
[ 
Visiting student evangelists promote Eplo 72 
by Maria Gallagher Congress of Evangelists.. chruches and Christian groups. Christ to the eyes of the world; and set up displays. St. Mary's Editor Campus Crusade for Christ The Congress, which will be held to help create a vision in each The Crusade anticipates 100,000 International is a national, in­in Dallas, Texas, from June 12 to delegate of how they can reach delegates; 3,000 of these from the 
Two representatives from terdenominational student 17, has four main purposes : to their world with the message of state of Indiana. As of the Campus Crusade for Christ In­Christian movement which create a national movement Christ. beginning of March, 12,000 paid ternational visited the St. Mary's stresses the importance of the among Christians; to train Training sessions; optional registrations had already been campus Friday to promote Explo local church, and as a cooperative Christians to live a Christian life seminars in specialized areas such received. '72, or the International Student arm seeks to work closely with all and share that faith; to bring Jesus as black involvement, mass Anyone is eligible to be a 
media, music, athletes, military, delegate. Estimated costs for the seminarians, pastors, and youth entire 6-day conference range workers; and evening assemblies from $50 to $75, depending on the
..ND -SMC caznpus happenings 
in the Cotton Bowl will comprise type of delegate (high school, the activity of the conference. college, military, layman, or 
faculty and a recent finalist at the years ago and lost. He is the More than 200 nationally and
PIANO RECITAL clergy>.
Metropolitan Opera auditions, in a founder of the Revitalization Corp internationally known Christion Registration will be open un. ' 
Honald Morebello, a member of May concert in Washington Hall at which is privately funded, and has leaders have agreed to participate, April 30. Further information can toe piano faculty at St. Mary's Notre Dame. 12 chapters across the United including honorary chairmen Billy be obtained from SMC campus College, will present a program of Morebello is a native of San States. Graham. In addition, 400 Christian representative Tracy Hurtt at 4941. 
1wentieth Century music at a orga~izations ha~e been invited to
Diego where he was a soloist on nine occasions with the San Diego 
recital at 8 pm Monday (March 20) DANFORTH SCHOLARSHIPS 
Symphony.
in the Little Theatre of St. Mary's. CAC Performing Arts Series Included in the program, open to 
Notre Dame, Ind.--Two seniors
the public without charge, will be presents
in the College of Arts and Letters
NEW DEMO CANDIDATE
"Variations on a Cantus Firmus" 
at the University of Notre Dame
by Vittorio Giannini; "Seven Short 
have been awarded fellowships by
Paino Pieces" by Robert Sherlaw Democratic presidential can­
the Danforth Foundation forJohnson; "Three Czech Dances" didate Edward Coli of Hartford, graduate study in preparation for a 
Lemonade Joe
by B Bohuslav Martinu, and Conn. is seeking student support on career of college teaching. More"Sonata" by Charles T. Griffes. campus to gather enough 
than 1,500 seniors throughout the 
The recipient of undergraduate signitures to place his name on the United States competed for the 97 
A CZECK WESTERN 
and graduate degrees in music at Indiana Primary ballot. 
fellowships awarded this year.
the Juilliard School of Music, New AColi Spokesman and 1958 Notre 
The Notre Dame recipients are 
Wednesday April 5York, Morebello has served on the Dame graduate, Jim Dunnigan, 
James M. Kee of Dunellen, N.J.,
faculties of Stephens College, said last night that the petitions 
<son of Mr. and Mrs. William A.
Armed Forces School of Music, must be completed and submitted 
Kee, 344 Front Street) and Michael 
and Old Dominion University. to district officials by mid af­
Admission $1.00
R. Cervas , Pittsburgh, Penn.,
He performed at a December ternoon Tuesday, and to officials in 
<son of Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. 
concert at St. Mary's with Arthur Indianapolis Friday. 
Cervas, 113 Cherrington Drive.) 

PAS Patrons t=REE
Follows, cellist and was a soloist Coil, who is 32 and to young to be 
Cervas, who served as director
when the Feldman String quartert President, is running with the 
of the Notre Dame Contemporary
made a January appearance. purpose of getting the other can­
Arts Festival last year, plans to 
Morebello will join Follows for a didates to talk about domestic 
attend Brown or Yale University
series of concerts in the Southwest issues. 
for graduate studies in literature. 
later this spring. He will also Coli, who is expected to be in this An English major at Notre Dame accompany Susan Stevens, a area after Easter vacation ends, where he served as a counsellor in 
member of the St. Mary's voice ran for Congress in Conneticut two the Freshman Year of Studies. 

Antiwar conference draws 1250 students 
I 
WALTER 'MAnHAU.
More than 1250 students from all Mobilization Committee, stressed were students present from 124 over the country crowded into that the deceptive propaganda of high schools and 154 colleges. 130 Washington Irving High School in the government could best be organizations besides local 

"KOTCH" 
New York to attend the February countered by rallying in the most chapters of the SMC were present. 25-7 National Student Antiwar massive visible form around the These included Students for Lind­Conference. After two days of key demand of an immediate say, Youth for McCarthy, Young 
NOMINATIONS!
intensive discussion the con­unconditional withdrawal of all Socialists for Jenness and Pulley, ference ·voted to build massive troops and material from Youth for McGovern, the National 

1-BEST ACTOR 
demonstrations against the war on Southeast Asia. The resolution was Student Lobby, the Association of 

2-BEST SONG
April 22 in New York and Los cosponsored by Lanny Davis, the Student Governments, Youth for PH0 N E 288-8488 Angeles National Coordinator of Youth for Muskie. and the National Student 

3-BEST EDITING 
FOR TIMES 
It was felt more urgent than ever l\1uskie: Debbie Bustin, the Association. 

4-BEST SCORE!
to answer the lies of the govern­outgoing National Coordinator of ment that the war is "winding the SMC': Laura Miller, a National down". Conference participants Coord ina tor of Young Socialists for pointed to the continuing Jenness and Pulley: and Vicki 
CA_c· Performil1'9 Arts Series presents
escalation of the air-war as an Haphael and John Levine, New 
indication of the Nixon ad­York State Coordinators of Youth 
ministration's real policy in for McGovern. 
Vietnam. The conference opened The wide spectrum of student 
with a teach-in that vividly organizations that attended the 
Duke Ellingtondescribed the present stage of the conference indicated that there is war. Among the speakers were the potential for a powerful Noam Chomsky, Fred Branfman organizng drive for April 22. The 




Thurs. April 6 Stepan Center
of Project Air-War, Dr. Arthur conference participants came 
Galston who described the from 30 states and Canada. There 
ecological destruction of In­
The Observer is published daily 
Reserved Seats $4.00
dochina, and Ngo Vinh Long, a 
during the college semester ec.
Vietnamese student who spoke of 
cept vacations by the students of
the mounting opposition of the 
the University of Notre Dame and 

General Admission $3.00
students of South Vietnam ot the 
St. Mary's College. Subscriptions
Thieu regime. 
may be purchased for $8 per
In presenting the resolution to 
semester from The Observer, Box 

Tickets on sale at
build the April 22 demonstrations, 
Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, 
Second class postage paid. Notre
Fred Lovgren, the National 
Dame, Ind. 46556.
Coordinator of the Student 

Student Union Ticket Office 
l!_Mock Om.vention Jackson campaign 
Co-Chairmen of the Henry M. Jackson for President Campaign, Mike Kozak, Terry Grant, and Tom McGrath. urge all prospective delegates to the Mock Convention and all eligible voters to seriously examine Jackson's stand on the issues. 
Jackson's vote getting ability is shown not only by his strong showing in the Florida primary but also by the fact that he has the greatest winning percentage of any of the Democratic candidates--he received 82 percent of the vote in his last senatorial election--and he has never lost an election. 
In order to better inform the campus on Jackson's positions, we will distribute, between now and con­vention time, all the necessary material elucidating the Senator's stand on the issues. 
Any questions that 
Any questions that students might have, between now and convention time, can be answered by calling any of the co-chairmen at 2187 or 3134. 
Washington--A government technical committee, in a report prepared for the office of science and technology, called for a reconsideration of the. stringent auto-pollution laws and auto-safety rules due to take effect by 1976. The committee said tha rules would add $773 to the retail price of the average car and would not be enough to bring many urban areas up to national air-quality standards. 
Washington--The treasury department disclosed that five democratic candidates would be given secret service protection as of Monday: Senators EdmundS. Muskie, Hl!bert H. Humphrey, George McGovern and Henry M. Jackson and Gov. George C. Wallace. Treasury Secretary John B. Connally, who picked the five, decided not to protect Sen. Edward 
M. Kennedy, a declared noncandidate. · New York--Life Magazine said a nine-month investigation had found that certain "important friends" of the Nixon administration in San Diego had been protected from criminal prosecutions over the last two 
years. The magazine said the administration squelched investigations or delayed prosecutions in at least three cases. 



world briefs 
on campus 
1: 15--lecture, gerald d. suttles, politicization of street c;orner gangs, biology auditorium. 
8:00--faculty recital, ronald morebello, little theatre. 

today 


Happy Easter 
E 





OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
Page 3

Monday, _March~, 197~ 
China raps Vietnam war 
Peking, March 19 -(Agence France Presse) -Premier Chou En Lai accused the United States today of prolonging and in­tensifying its "war of aggression" in Southeast Asia and of trying to occupy Indochina. 
It was Chou's first public speech since President Nixon's visit here. 
Chou said that as long as the war continued China would not cease to support the three Indochinese peoples "no matter what form the war of aggression will take." 
The Premier, who spoke during a banquet celebrating the second anniversary of the arrival in Peking of Prince Nordorom Siahnouk of Cambodia, denounced "certain big powers who are in the process of setting up what was claimed to be a "third Khmer force." 
Chou said any attempts directed towads a compromise would be rejected by Sihanouk and his supporters. 
"We resolutely oppose all in­ternational plots aimed at dividing the Cambodian people and the other Indochinese peoples and at 

Florida primary sparks Kennedy speculatio:n 
by R.W. AppleJr 

(c) 1!172 New York'l'lmes 
Chicago, March 19--0n the morning after the Florida Primary, the politicians lounged around the swimming pools of Miami and Miami Beach and guessed,like everyone else. One of the things they guessed, as they mulled over the muddled Florida results, was that no one would be able to put together a first-ballot majority at the Democratic con­vention, and that that would help Edward M. Kennedy. 
Kennedy, Democratic Senator from Massachusetts, brother of an assassinated President, brother also of an assassinated Presidential candidate, does not agree. 
"I still think the nominee will emerge from the primaries," Kennedy said in a weekend telephone interivew. "We've had only two out of 23 primaries. There is a long way to go, and the Wisconsin primary <April 4) has always been more representative of the Democratic Party than Florida or states like that." 
Kennedy said his position was unchanged, that he still had ab­solutely no intention or desire to run for president in 1972. 
In his view, the Senator said, Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota had made "a good showing" in Florida, Sen. Henry l\1. Jackson of Washington had turned in "a very creditable performance" and Sen. EdmundS. Muskie of Maine "had been hurt." 
"But I still think Ed has the broadest support within the par­ty." Kennedy added. "He is probably in the best position." 
Asked whom he considered the main contenders for the nomination. Kennedy said from his home in McLean, Va.: "1\luskie and Humphrey, and I think George McGovern has moved into the big three in a very legitimate way." 
Kennedy said that beginning with Wisconsin, candidates would begin to run out of money, and that the resu!ts in states like Wisconsin, sabotaging their war of resistance to American aggression," Chou said. 
Sihanouk, the guest of honor at the banquet, also rejected all compromise with "the clique of Pnompenh traitors." 
The Prince said that The United National Front of Cambodia (the party over which he presides) and the Royal Government of National Union of Cambodia refused "the so-called political solution put forward by certain powers aimed at frustrating a total military victory in Cambodia which would not fail to be achieved." 
The Front and the Royal Government refused to deal with a so called "third Cambodian force, the creation of certain foreign powers hostile to the reolution of the Cambodian people's power in Pnompenh," Sihanouk said. 
The Prince also rejected "any new Geneva-type conference which would make Cambodia a country divided into two states, whre U.S. imperialism would perpetuate its neo-colonialism on a prt of the national territory.". 
Pennsylvania and Massachussetts­-all of which will hold primaries before May 1--would begin to "cut a lot of them out of the race." 
He was unwilling to answer the ultimate question as to what would happen if the race deadlocked'? Would the party leaders, eager to avoid chaos, turn toward him'? 
But the leaders of the Democratic Party, increasingly apprehensive about what they consider the disorderly nominating process created by the party's reform rules, are beginning to ask whether Kennedy isn't the answer to the divisions between left and right. and old and new. 
If the April primaries produce no clear leader. the swing toware Kennedy or some other non­participant in the primaries could begin astonishingly quickly. 
As most professionals now see the situation. Muskie has a chance to bounce back from his Florida embarrassment and win enough primaries and caucuses to put his nomination drive back on the road. 
But if he fails to do so. if he 

Greg Stidham, new Scholastic editor 
Stidham dubbed Scholastic head 
by Mike Baum 
Greg Stidham, an Arts and Letters Pre-Med Student, 
will be the new editor-in-chief of the Scholastic, ac­
cording to his predecessor Mary Ellen Stoltz. 
The Notre Dame Junior was picked by the Student Publications Board of Notre Dame, and will take the place of the present co-editors-in-chief, Miss Stoltz and Joe Hotz. Stidham was formerly a member of the editorial staff of the fortnightly publication. 
The Student Publications Board is composed of Frs. Blantz and Shilts 1(Vice-president and Assistant Vice President of Student Affairs, respectively), and Ronald Weber: Director of the American Studies Program, Frank O'Malley, the Faculty Advisor to the Scholastic and Miss Stoltz and Mr. Hotz. 
Commenting on the appointment, Miss Stoltz said, "I have full confidence in Greg's ability to mobilize the staff's potential. I think Greg will be a really good editor-in-chief, since he's got a certain awareness and an ability to lead." 
Stidham remarked, "I really look on it as a challenge. The Scholastic I feel, has a very definite role, on that is different feom any of the other media." 
Ms. Stoltz noted that the changeover from a co­editorship to a single position did not reflect any failure in this year's arrangment. "I think it (the policy of having two editors-in-chief) worked very well. Joe and I were really fortunate with the cooperation we got." One reason for the change, she said, was that .no one applied jointly for the position this year. 
Stidham agreed that the former arrangement did not seem necessary, this time and said that he intended to rely heavily on the staff. "We're going to have a more tightly knit editorial board this year. I suspect that it won't be reflected in a change in the magazine, but in smoother working in the office," he said. 
He feels optimistic about next year's Scholastic, "We have a lot of Juniors who will be back to form a good nucleus for the staff next year," he said. Miss Stoltz had characterized the present crew as "a really great staff." Stidham is presently considering the applicants for the unfilled staff positions on the Scholastic. He an­ticipates that the defcisions will be annuunced before the spring break, but probably not until Wednesday. 
continues to experience dif­ficulties, it is conceivable that he would pull out ofthe contest. Muskie has implied as much to friends. That would leave many of his supporters, people to whom the nomination of Humphrey for a second time would constitute an admission of party bankruptcy, in need of someone else to back. 
Unless McGovern or some other liberal had caught on by them, they might well begin to bring pressure on Kennedy to allow them to switch their support to him. 
Among those in that group might be Gov. John J. Gilligan of Ohio and Sen. John V. Tunney of California, both of whom endorsed 1\luskie early and helped give his campaign the momentum that it has lost recently. 
1\layor Richard J. Daley of Chicago. who is expected to control a bloc of 90 or more uncommitted delegates at the Miami Beach convention. might well join in such a move. Daley, an old ally of the Kennedy family, has never forgiven Humphrey for un­flattering comments he made about Daley's conduct during the 1968 convention and campaign. 
It is also conceivable that Muskie would win often enough in the next three months to keep his candidacy alive, but not enough to put together the required 1,509 votes for the nomination at the convention. It Humphrey, McGovern, Lindsay, Muskie, Jackson and Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama all had blocs of votes, a deadlock could occur. 
A last-minute move to Kennedy could then develop, particularly if he does well in the Oregon Primary on May 23. His name has been entered by Oregon's secretary of State, Clay Myers, despite Ken­nedy's statements that he is not a candidate. 
Most prominent democrats now accept Kennedy's noncandidacy at face value. But most also think that. all disclaimers aside, cir­cumstances could develop that would generate almost irresistible pressure on Kennedy to run. 
,1 
~ 
1 
l 
, ~ 
,
, 
1 
1 
1 
j 
the observer ~onday March 20, 1972 

ND shows two faces in exchange program 
by Ann Therese Darin 
Campus Editor 
Promises, Promises----N .D. Reports No. 13 lists Du Lac's of­ficial stance on '72-'73 co­exchange. According to the Report, Notre Dame encourages co-exchange between the two schools and will not do anything to hinder its students who wish to major in a strictly SMC depart­ment, such as Elementary Education. The Dome, however, seems to be a double-dealer. From the desk of Arts and Letters Dean Robert Waddick, a letter point bt'ank forbids Notre Dame students from majoring in Elementary Education, unless they have first declared a Notre Dame major. SMC Education Dept. spokesmen consider Notre Dame's move impossible. 
With all of the mundane requirements aside from stipulated education courses, no student can double major with Eled. Reportedly Notre Dame is in the process of losing accreditation for its graduate school, from the National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education. The University does not have a program for secondary or elementary teacher accreditation. 
"We're in the Money Versus Ted Is Dead"----Ever been invited to a formal sitdown dinner without being told why? 
Wednesday evening, when the campus is de-studentized for spring vacation, N.D. ad­ministrators, department chair­men and college deans will dine together with wives auspiciously to honor department chairmen. 
According to administrators, department chairmen work hard with scheduling and budgeting <which will occupy most of their vacation l and receive little financial recompense. 
"Fr. .Hesburgh wanted to thank the department chairmen." said 

Soledad trial to end soo,n 
<c> 1972 New York Times 
San Francisco, March 19 -The 
three-month trial of the celebrated 
Soledad Brothers is in its final 
stages, with closing arguments to 
be presented this week in the ar­
mored courtroom where the two 
black convicts are being tried on 
charges of killing a white prison 
guard. 
The all-white jury of nine women 
and three men will probably begin 
deliberation at midweek. 
The defendants, John Cluchette, 
28 years old, and Fleeta Drumgo, 
26 are charged with murdering 
John V. Mills, 26, a correctional 
officer at Soledad State Prison, on 
Jan. 16, 1970. 
The State contends that the two 
inmates, along with George 
Jackson, 29, beat Mills mercilessly 
and then threw him to his death 
from a third-floor cell tier. 
Prison officials believe Mills was killed in retribution for shooting deaths of three black prisoners by a guard three days before the Mills incident. 
Robertson: war 

exists in UeSe 
by Bob Cosentino 
"The war does exist in our country and veterans are as much helpless victims of it as are those left in Southeast Asia," declared Charles Robertson of Stanford Hall. 
With unemployment of returning 
war veterans at its highest in many years, the Executive Committee of the American Legion, Department of Nevada. proposed an increase of war veteran benefits during a meeting in Tonapah, Nevada, February 20. 
The committee favored an in­crease in school year benefits, which would give a veteran $200 per month plus tuition and in­cidental costs of education. 
"The present educational training benefits by law are en­tirely inadequate due to the rising costs of living expenses." the committee stated. "Furthermore. an increase in benefits could permit more veterans to go to school when they return; thus eliminating them from competing in the overflowed job market." 
One of the advantages of the proposed increase of benefits is aimed toward ROTC students. raising their monthly stipend to $200 . according to Robertson. "The effects of the resolution would more rapidly bring about the strongly desir~ voluntary army." . 
The resolution would also have a great effect on all college students. who can be assured of finishing school later if they are drafted. 
"Veteran organizations have been greatly criticized in recent years," said Robertson. "Students should be aware of efforts made in their behalf. This resolution demonstrates the interest held by those organizations for the youth.·· 
Jackson, assertedly the central figure in the killing is now dead. He was shot last August in a bloody outbreak at San Quentin prison in what prison authorities say was an 
escape attempt. Two other prisoners and tgo San Quentin guards also died in that violence. 
The Soledad Brothers trial was conducted under stringent security Pr t. s It has been marked 
ecau IOn ·
by tensl.on and repeated clashes between the defense and the 
J d S L v · 
u ge, . ee avuns, over 
whether the judge was being fair to 
the defense 
The state's case is principally based on testimony by Mills' fellow guards and the accounts of two white andd two black prison in­
mates who said they saw Cluchette, Drumgo and Jackson assaulting Mills. 
1 d
Two defense attorneys, F oy Silliman and Richard Silver • have scorned the prosecution's case, cont~n~ing it is ~/r~eup/n whi~h 
0
convic s were er ear ~ p~ro e Both defendants denied on th witness stand that they were at the scene of the killing. 
It was tne case of the Soldedad Brothers that involved Angela Davis in the difficulties for which she is now being tried in nearby San Jose. According to the state, Miss Davis supplied 17-year-old Jonathan Jackson with weapons for an attempt to free the Soldedad Brothers from San Quentin bytaking a ·udge hostage in San
1 
Rafael, Calif. in August, 1970 -an 
attempt that resulted in the death of young Jackson, the judge and two other convicts. 
The case was moved from 
Monterey County, where Soledad is situated, to San Francisco at the request of the defense. 
With the death penalty now banned in California, the Soledad Brothers, who have long criminal records, could get a maximum sentence of life imprisonment. 

one top administrator, "and thought that by having the affair formal, the wives would have a chance to dress up." 
This is the first time such a dinner has been held. Suspiciously: 
With the much publicized $700,000 deficit this semester causing these same department chairmen to cut back ten percent in departmental spending and not to replace retiring faculty, WHERE is the money coming for the gala? 
More importantly, WHY? 
To honor Fr. Hesburgh for a successful 20 year term as N.D. president, when the average stay in a president's office is only four years? 
To announce Honorable Fr. Hesburgh's retirement from a 20 year job well-done? (Four years ago, Hesburgh heralded that a college president should serve no longer than 20 years. l This is one of the darkest horses in the race, although, at present it runs like wild-fire among faculty coffee clatches. 
Observer Insight 
Informed sources believe this too far off Hesburgh's retirement timetable reputed to be graduation 
or early June. Local media per­
sonnel substantiate this by noting 
that a deluge of national press accompany all official TMH acts. This dinner is too low-key. 
Hesburgh 's announdement of his 
exodus from the sterile Indiana plains to an elective office in the politically-sterile, silent majoritied Washington, D.C.?
Some knowledgeable students believe this may be the cause-­fueled by Nixon's anti-bussing announcement last week--although the dinner was announced well in advance of the speech. 
Reply to last week's faculty statement roasting the provost's office for its un-democratic decision-making policies? Fr. Burtchaell has refused comment until TMH has first been up to bat. However, dinner invitations were in the mail a week before the faculty statement was released. 
To announce Notre Dame has found a pot of gold in the form of a large grant to erase the debt? Financial spokesmen, when quizzed, shot this possibility down. 
Dark Horse: To announce Rev. James Riehle's retirement from the office of Dean of Students? While many insiders agree that the retirement is forthcoming, they felt Wednesday night was neither the time or place. 
On--Again--Off-Again Merger--­From Notre Dame Magazine,February, 1972, p.5: 
The SMC trustees added that if negotiations fail once again, Sa~t Mary's will immediately begm seeking a new president. Sister Alma has said she will not take the job and would prefer not .t? serve past this summ~r. In add~t10~, the college will begm to rede~me Itself as an independent Catholic college for women. As Sister Alma said, "we will add innovative new programs primarily designed for women, such as health related areas." 
~: 1: ~----Look for the new, im­proved Saint Mary's College to adopt the 4:1:4 academic calendar in '73-'74. College Helmsman Edward Henry has worked suc­cessfully as prime mover at St. 
John's ·-Collegeville for the program which allows students a study-work experience-tour during Christmas vacation with facult) members for credit. 
(Continued on page, 12) 

and other fav r f r tesgfvml{._~_.=.._:~.:__..:____,;_·__......;;;::.=::::.:::....:.;.::;::....;;.::::.:.;:;::.::..:,:.::....:.:..:.:~=-----------------l 
Even if you don'tneed gas,we'll fill you up. 
On the road to Florida this Easter, take a break. or your bike with Marathon. It's a good gasoline .. Pull into any Marathon station along 1-75 from We even guarantee it. 
Richmond, Ky., to Tampa, Fla. 

Then drink all the uncarbonated Orange-1~"'-~~.::;1!11 Flavored Gatorade®thirst quencher you want. liD~r~iW Free. You don't have to buy a thing ... you don't even have to be driving. Just ask for a glass (or eight) of Gatorade thirst quencher. 
It's on the house. 
Of course, if you are driving, you're going to need gas. ,....._~_.. So fill your car, or your van, 1-=-<i~.,.,-~ 

In fact, all Marathon petroleum products and automotive services come with a written guar­antee. Satisfaction or your money back. 
You can leave your money in your wallet too. Marathon accepts: BankAmericard. Mas­ter Charge. American Express. Carte Blanche. Diner's Club. And, of course, we have our 
own card, too. ~ So pull in, fill up and hit the 
M 

road. It's a long, dry 1-75. 
MARATHON 
~ 
Our company Is our dealers, ble11 'em all. 

.. -~ -.,-. ->A.:--.'""·____________,_,_ 
--::.~-..........~-----------....AII!I&Q___Il!l!iA!IIIOf!J;~~~~-~-~­

& ..S.b.l~··-• 
Monday. March 20, 1972 the observer 
5 


Some inner-city ghettos have special schools. For little boys who don't talk. 
Not mute little boys. But children so withdrawn, so afraid of failure, they cannot make the slightest attempt to do any­thing at which they might fail. 
Some don't talk. Some don't listen. Most don't behave. And all of them don't learn. 
One day someone asked us to help. 
Through Kodak, cameras and film were distributed to teachers. The teachers gave the cameras to the kids and told them to take pictures. 
And then the miracle. Little boys who had never said any­thing, looked at the pictures and began to talk. They said "This is my house." "This is my dog." "This is where I like 

... 
1 
l 
, 
I 1 
• 

to hide." They began to explain, to describe, to communicate. And once the channels of communication had been opened, they began to Jearn. 
We're helping the children of the inner-city. And we're also helping the adults. We're involved in inner-city job pro­grams. To train unskilled people in useful jobs. 
What does Kodak stand to gain from this? Well, we're showing how our products can help a teacher-and maybe creating a whole new market. And we're also cultivating young customers who will someday buy their own cameras and film. But more than that, we're cultivating alert, edu­cated citizens. Who will someday be responsible for our society. 
After all, our business depends on our society. So we care what happens to it. 


(G More than abusiness. 
t 


the observer Monday, March 20, 1972
6 

• 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDI;NT NEWSPAPER
THE 
John Abowd Jim Jendryk



OBSERVER 
Editor-In-chief Business Manager 
Don Ruane Bill Bauerle Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
News: 283-1715 Editorial: 283-8661 
Editorials printed In The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer,Business: 283-7471 on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comn•ent. 



The Pace Quickens 
In only his first week of office, Dr. by the edicts of that august body, have too 
Edward Henry has shown himself to be a long suffered under-representation. man of uncommon initiative and Voting student representatives could decision. possibly include the student body 
president and class presidents. FacultyThe formerly plodding pace of SMC representatives might include the faculty bureaucracy has quickened to at least a assembly chairman, and departmenttrot, if not a gallop. While the new chairmen or maybe at-large represen­president has displayed an FDR-like 
tatives.
boldness and efficiency in his immediate Since Dr. Henry has stressed hisassumption of power, his decisions ap­willingness to "keep the lines of com­pear to be not without forethought Dr. 
munication open," it might further beWilliam Hickey, Sr. Basil Anthony suggested that all Board meetings beO'Flynn, and Dr. Jack Detzler are all open to the campus media, and someveterans of the college and thus in­even to the student body at large. Iftimately acquainted with its problems student opinion is solicited, the Board mayand needs, as well as its potential. The be surprised at the constructive ideas itlatter two have already served SMC quite discovers.
capably in administrative capacities, and 
although Dr. Hickey is a newcomer to Finally it might be added that we mustthis area,thereis no reason to believe that not allow ourselves to be blinded by anhe will not perform with equal ability. 
excess of optimism. Certainly Dr.
Also, Dr. Henry's proposal to in­Henry's proposals and the enthusiasmcorporate the college is one long overdue. 
with which he backs them appear to beHis concurrent revision of the Board of the best thing going for St. Mary's inTrustees structure is certainly the first quite some time, but they must be further positive step taken in some time on ths supplemented with concrete action andpart of St. Mary's to fulfill her ideal of results before we can judge them ac­triparite community government, as set curately.
forth in the procedural manual. Faculty and students, those most often affected Maria Gallagher 


Spring Traffic 
Spring officially arrives today, and that peak. With spring weather this traffic is an unofficial warning for security to will increase as will the number of beef up their traffic controls and for cyclists out for a hair whipping plunge students to take a few extra precautions down the hills behind the laundry. to protect their personal property, such Itis not so much the traffic, but the fact as locking their doors and windows, when that few drivers adhere to the speed out of their room. limit. Unfortunately security does not 
With the advent of Q.almy weather, we have the equipment or manpower to to can expect an increase in bicycle and patrol the road at all times. pedestrian traffic about campus. This And inspite of the curves and hills has already started thanks to the mild which make fast driving all the more weather, which is something unusual for dangerous, many drivers pay no heed to the fist two·weeks of March. racing along at double the speed limit, or 
Not only do Notre Dame students make faster. use of this sprawling campus to ride Tragedy is in the making with warm tandem with their favorites from across weather if something is not done to the road, but so do children and adults who protect not only the cyclists and enjoy one of America's fastest growing pedestrians, but also the drivers. pastimes. One solution, which may be most 
As the temperatures get higher and economical, is to place concrete bumps at higher, the favorite time for a bike ride or strategic points in the road. Nor­walk becomes the evening hours, and for thwestern has such a system, and drivers some after dark. Both of these times are are cautious. If they are not, they risk a considered the worst hours for driving broken axle or serious damage to the because of visual hazards created by the bottom of their car, not to mention the reduced lighting conditions. possibility of losing control. 
Last fallthesecurity office issued orders The bumps should be the width of the not to let anyone on campus after 6 pm car and about three or four inches high. without written or advance permission There should be no need for the structures, from the director. There is also a 20 mile but security has not done its duty as far per hour speed limit, which has not been as protecting the ~yclists and pedestrians enforced. who should be able to enjoy this campus 
The after six rule is satisfactorily in the spring and fall without the fear of enforced during the week, but much is speedin~ cars. left to be desired on weekends when foot 
Don Ruanetraffic along the campus road is at its 


Erin go laah 
"I didn't know you were Irish, Pilnitz. You're turning green." 
MinstreI of the dawn1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
'Non-community' 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Jim McDer m o t 
Ifthere is one word that we love to use to describe Notre Dame, it has be "community." A beautiful word, evoking thoughts of cooperation an mutual concern, describing the perfect Christian way of life. Listen to a interview with a University spokesman, or read one of the stories tha national magazines periodically publish on ND ·the word is there. 
Problem is some of the people who spend a lot of time here · several students and faculty members for instance-have a lot of problem finding 
that "special feeling about the place." For many here, Notre Dame is just a place to spend four years, get a diploma, job, and, when memor fades, give money to. 
Several items in last week's issue of The Observer bring out some of th problems that people see here. 
The first is the faculty statement on the "Future of Notre Dame." Th main point in the essay seems to be the failure of the community proces in the administration of the school. "The whole community at No · Dame is being revised and revised downward . . . a frustrat regimented society also makes a poor community, and individuals who self-respect and confidence are perpetually undermined become poor persons," this report read in part. 
The statement was not hastily considered, and the faculty membe who affirmed their agreement with the substance of the essay worry th there is a developing failure of the sense of community here. 
Another report that showed that problems exist in our awareness each other was the announcement that Tom O'Mara would be leav· school, and the reaction that followed. We wondered about the frustrati of the other "Tom O'Mara whose names never make the paper but just as alone, unhappy, or frustrated." 
O'Mara described Notre Dame as "something less than an intellect and academic oasis," a place thatfails to consider the emotional needs the people that live here. Again, this is a failure of the community -a the reaction to this decision indicates that he is not alone in his criticis 
The last item, somewhat more hopeful, was a report on a "Celebrati of Self" that several St. Mary's students are planning for April. Dunn, who is organizing the effort, said that the college takes on appearance of a "non-community of individuals suffering in mutu isolation." 
The idea is a hopeful one, since it shows that people might care enou to start something. If they have the courage to carry the plan through, spite of the apathy they will encoutnter, and the time it will take, planners will at least be providing a basis for awareness of the co munity that can exist here. 
Any effort to develop community awareness will encouner the sa problem, however. There has to be a willingness to admit that any failu in community is the fault of everyone of us. 
It might be difficult for a sensitivity group that would love to hug only -itself, but we must come to the realization that we must reach o and find the rest of the people here. The old adage of "Make a friend, friend," is corny, but right now. we need it, and, hopefully, we have t potential to make it a real commitment. 
Night Editor: Jim Roe 
Ass't Night Editor: Carol Weiss 
Day Editor: Tom Bornholdt 
Headlines: Don Biancamano 
Pix: Bob Hughes 
Controller of the Night: rick smith Other typists: Jill Hampe, mark neiderkorn, diane chermside, pat kenney 
.. 

Monday, March 20, 1972 the observer 

another v·iew from across the road 
One evening I caught the bus to the library. A man of my age was driving and he had on highly polished black shoes and tapered panoc-
I smiled and said "Hi." I was in a good mood despite cold weather and the work I had to do. 
He looked at me and said, "Evening." He began combing his hair in the mirror of the bus. I asked him how he liked driving the bus. 
··-He·· grinned into the mirror showing large, white teeth. 
"It's the best job I ever had. I graduated and went into the army and when I got out, I couldn't find anything. I need the money to buy a car and get a house and to get around before I settle down. There's a lot I want to do, you know?" 
He turned to face me and I nodded. "Yeah." 
. "Like I can make a lot of money doing this and I really love it. I work and it's not hard. Like today I worked until three o'clock and then I had to be on from six until four downtown, then I ate some dinner at the bus station and came on here until midnight. The pay is fantastic." 
driving in circles 
"Do you have a girl or something that you're saving for?" 
"Nah ... I just like to think of the future. When I get enough money I'm going to quit and get away from here and just live while I can enjoy everything. It shouldn't take long because I work a lot and the pay is good. Then ... will I have a good time! Look out! And maybe later I'll get married or something. A lot of my friends are married already. But, no.. .l really love to drive this bus. The kids are good kids and we talk and get to know each other a little. The kids here are pretty nice kids." 
We had arrived at the library and I waited until last to get off. "Thank you. G'night." My good mood was left on the bus. 
I got on a bus after having watched two pass me by. . 
"Good morning," said the driver, smiling compassionately at my wind burned cheeks and chapped lips. 
"Hi," l answered, -smiling and then feeling the sting of my lip which had split in the midst of all my friendliness. "How are you?" 

This additional courtesy was automatic and I expected absolutely no other reply than "Fine." 
"Oh-h-h, I have to tell you what hap­pened to me this morning." 
I sat back and painted a half smile on my face, wondering why I hadn't kept my mouth shut. 
"l worked until three o'clock this morning and then had to be back on at seven because one of the other drivers who takes the Notre Dame, St. Mary's route was sick. He caught the flu from his wife and he won't be driving until tomorrow." 
I inquired whether or not I had heard correctly when he said that he worked until three and then had to go again at 
seven. 

"Yeah ... I stay at the bus station and take a nap there. I don't get too tired and I catch up on my day off. But the money is pretty good." 
My head snapped back as he bolted the. bus across the road to the gate. He con­tinued after opening it. 
"My wife called me at six this morning and said that they were going to tow our 
Fr. Griffin 
i've heard it before 
The mother's voice on the long distance line was full of agony. She spoke slowly in the way people do if they are afraid of losing control over their emotions and becoming hysterical. She told me of her daughter, a lovely, intelligent girl of twenty, who has left school --perhaps, said the mother, under the influence of drugs or the delusions of witchcraft--to live with a student who declines to marry her. He will never marry her, the mother said, presumably on the theory that boys won't marry the girls they shack up with, because they don't really have to. 
"My daughter says it's okay to live with a boy," said the mother. "She says there's no sin, and nothing wrong, because she loves him." 
There was something deeper to the words than the simple explanations to a priest of a school girl's ethics. The implicit meaning became explicit in the woman's question: "Father, do you think it is right for my daughter to be living in sin with this boy, and that there is nothing wrong in what they are doing just because they love each other?" It was obvious from the context that the mother suspected me of teaching some system of morality in which love is the universal solvent of integrity and respon­sibility; and self-discipline can be dismissed as irrelevant. because people can do anything --anything at all, no matter how self-destructive--as long as their motive is love. · 
1do believe that love is the highest motive 
of human action·, my sources for saying so 
are impeccable. I couldn't say to the 
mother. "I believe in love, but what your 
daughter feels for this boy is not love," 
because I don't know if it is true; perhaps 
she loves the boy very much. The hope is 
that he is worth being cared for, and that he, 
in his turn. cares for her also. But where 
love is mature and responsible, people do 
not risk hurting each other. I think that a 
boy living with a twenty year old girl he is 
not ready to marry risks hurting her very 
badly. I think also the girl risks hurting 
herself. 
When two people love each other with tion of guilt, I wish my own innocence we>P as intact as that of the girl whose only fault is to live with th boy she loves. What is wrong -terribly, tradically wrong -is that the girl is giving so much of herself at a time when the couple is not ready for marriage .. . that she exposes herself to exploitation and betrayal ... that she does not have enough respect for the physical and psychic energies that are intended to fulfill her as a woman . . . that her sex,!la!ity needs to be 
explored not in a casual living arrangement 
but in a situation of established security 
where the mutual love of two people 
result in the building of a togetherness for 
life. 
This attitude may sound old-fashioned, 
but I am not trying to be endorsed by Playboy or to win the approval of Women's Lib. I am an old-fashioned kind of priest; and the notion of pre-marital living arrangements -for me or anyone else -does not turn me on. 

Even mothers, in their God-given wisdom, cannot make moral choices for their 
honesty and sincerity, I hesitate to describe children. This girl has made what I con­the unwise things they do to each other as sider to be a bad decision; but love, conern, sin. because sin is an affair of the con-and involvement with people should be science. and I am not a reader of con-based not on what they do, but who they are. sciences. Hatred is a sin--it offends against I hope this mother will make a moral choice the life and light of God; it cripples and of her own; accepting whrer she does not disfigures the mind and the will. But love--understand, loving where she cannot con­not to be confused with the charades and done. The daughter already runs the risk of masquerades wherein passion parodies love being a heavy loser; she can't afford the loss --is holy and from God. Even in its holiness, of hermother's compassion and the therapy it is subject to the disciplines of the mind; of her love. Maybe the girl's love affair will otherwise it is like a fire that can leave one end happily. But if it doesn't, her unhap­badly scarred as the victim of flames. piness could be compounded into a tragedy 
But how. without appearing to be morally if the concern of her family is not senstiive permissive, can a priest tell a heart-broken enough to receive her without criticism or woman: "Little mother, I am concerned censure. Sometimes it is not the lamb who about your daughter not because I think she has lot the sheepfold, but the sheepfold that . is a great sinner, because sin is on a level of interiority where neither of us can intrude.. There is a wrongness here that goes deeper 
.but because I fear she does not know what than sin. which. in recent times, seems like the consequnces of her actions are." What a technical word dealing with the mechanics is needed here is not a system of legal of grace--if grace has a mechanics, which I has lost the lamb, and we should celebrate the homecoming of the shepherd. 


At Christmas time, I sat in a New York restaurant talking to a pretty young girl, who was a prostitute. Our conversation was of ordinary, innocent things, which made it all seem so pathetic. 
She said, "Have you noticed my nail polish?" 
"Yes," I said. "It's very pretty." 
"It's the first time I've worn this color," she said. "People never tell you if they like your nail polish or not, and I hate sitting around waiting for someone to notice. So I'm asking you. Do you really like it?'' 
"I like it very much," I said. "But tell me: why are your hands trembling?" 
"Something happened to me," she said. 
"Please take better care of yourself," I said, and I got up to leave. "Why do you think I am not taking good care of myself?" she said. 
"Because your hands are trembling." 
"Something happened to me," she said. "Can I help it if something happened to me?" "No." I said, "but take care of yourself anyway." 
Prostitutes are not necessarily hardened veterans of sin. In the City, there are thousands of them, young, pretty girls who do human little things like worrying about nail polish. You would hardly know they were prostitutes, if their trembling hands did not betray the fact that something happened to them, and they have lost the clue to the mystery of their own sexuality. 
Without odious or melodramatic com­parisons, I do wish to make this point: sometimes the life of a prostitute begins as the impasse of a girl shabbily treated by a boy and cast off as the sinner by her family. Then the girl begins the slow drift from affair to affair. until gradually she becomes convinced of her own worthlessness. Prostitution becomes a way of staying alive. a form of punishment self-inflicted because self-respect has been lost. The prostitute's guilt is communal , but the heartbreak is mostly her own. 
Before saying it doesn't happen, try talking to some of the girls in New York who are walking the streets at Midnight. 
That is why I get sick when mothers call long distance to tell me of girls who leave home to live with boys who won't accept 
categories that analyze human behaviour on doubt. because it assumes that God deals lllilrriage. It sounds like the beginning of a the basis of sin. Judging from a presump-with us as machines, not as living beings. story I've heard before. 

Deborah Kerr 

car awav and the police were at the house. 
The car was parked in front of the house and it had license plates that were due to run out tomorrow, but they said that it shouldn't be parked on the street, but we always park it there. So I had to get home in a hurry to see what was going on. The cops were really mad when I got there and I told them that they better damn well get off my property since they didn't have no right to be there, you know?" 
"M-m-m-m. Yeah." I couldn't think of a reply. 
"Anyways, they took me downtown and I told them bastards that they couldn't take my car away because of the plates 'cause they didn't run out until tomorrow. I was mad and so was that sargeant. They took the car and now I have to go down there tomorrow when I get off work and pay to get the car back. I'm not paying any $40...they can forget it. I didn't ask them to tow it away." 
I got off at the grotto, smiled, and said, "Let me know hot it turns out. Good luck." I had to hurry to the bookstore so that I 
wouldn't be late for my class. 


intimations 
on 

leaving 
Debi Gras 

Never have I felt so lost and depressed in my life. As I look at the brochure on the Economics and Business department at St. Mary's I see that I can be a secondary education school teacher. I paid $4000 to hear that I can't even get a BBA degree, instead the SMC business majors get a degree in arts and letters. Sure they have some business courses to offer but not enough for one semester let alone after that. 
So after examining all the possibilities of this wonderful college I find myself writing letters for applications and making numerous trips over to the administration building to have them send my transcripts to Ohio State, Berkeley, Colorado, etc.... each of course costing $10. 
Facing reality, which is so often hard to do. I realize that I cannot get into Notre Dame and must leave. I must start all over again. Will I change so much when I go to another university that my friends here won't be able to relate to me as they do now. Not knowing if you will see these people again scares me. Coming from Denver I know that it would be hard to see these people in the next three years. When I do see them will I be so wrapped up in what I am doing and they in their lifestyle that we won't know each other. I hope and pray that this doesn't happen. I know that I should be making the most of these next three months in the SMC-ND COMMUNITY. But instead I have turned everything off. I just don't care any more. I am so afraid to face what I will he doing in May, saying goodbye to t•veryone. and second starting all over again in September. 
I t-hink the main reason I am writing this is because of the article entitled, "Is This a Christian University" in a recent edition of the Obst>rver. If this is a Christina l 1niversity and I am a Christian then I better get out of here before I lose all faith in people. I will have to give the ad­ministration credit, though, they really did put us in our place. 
I know that I will ~ okay but will what I have experienced here be forgotten by me and everyone else; I hope not. I also hope that I have the strength to leave. If I am not myself then please realize that I am so scared that I am covering up for it. And to the people I do know here, please don't change and please be here if ever I come back to visit you at Notre Dame. 
• 
the observer Monday, March 20, 1972 

'Community without walls' houses L.A. nuns 
severed official ties with the a Catholic couple with four they decided that the new life-style framework. The goal, said Sister 
by Edward B. Fiske 

(c) 1972 New York Times 
Los Angeles----Janet Barber lives in a small Victorian house in a residential section of Hollywood and does her best to be a good citizen. 
Her house is the local polling place, and last year she helped out in the "mothers' march" to combat birth defects. Such civil activities would ordinarily come as no surprise to her neighbors on North Winona except for one minor detail--she is a Roman Catholic nun. 
Well, sort of. 
Miss Barber is a member of the 
Immaculate Heart Community, a 
group of Catholic Sisters who Church in 1970 after a nve-year battle with James Francis Car­dinal Mcintyre, the former Ar­chbishop of Los Angeles. 
Two years later the 265 members of the community have con­solidated their gains and--at a time when religious c&iinnunities everywhere are busy~. updating their methods--eni~tked on perhaps the most an\Mious ex­periments of all. · ·~ 
Rejecting the regimen~ion and authoritarianism of •.ieligious orders <including their .tfWn.) in the past, they now find theii.@Wn jobs, make their owni~' living arrangements and d'q()jde for themselves about the ~··kind of prayer life they will pursue. 
They have broken ne'¥ ground by taking in a Protestant woman and children. They say they are even wasn't for them. open to accepting single men, but "The charisma that touchedthe so far none have shown up. others just didn't touch me," said 

Perhaps most important, the Christine Thranow, who was a nun new community has widened the for 35 years and is now the lay dean focus of the modern "religious of a nearby college. life" to include not only an in-·Despite the efforts to recast the dividual's "vertical" relation •.to relisi.o_us life, _the community has God but the development ohU!~P. t~n m only fiVe new members in personal relationships. Es{!e~ia,Jcy. the last year. in small living groups. 4••~:~.. • ~ ! But members a~ knowledge that 
"If I think about being~igi61.J~ neither they nor traditional at all, it takes the forru~.ofhow·I • religious orders are likely to enjoy deal with people," s.~j;~S~ste¥i\ the same level of interest as in the Helen Kelley, the 46· j~llr ol~ • past. "You people want temporary president of Imma~~:OO ·Heart involvements," said Beverly College. , · ."1... Galyean. "We still look like an 
The so-called...'~~.chmmunity institution.'.' . . . without walls " thOui!h is facing Instead, It defmes Itself m terms serious probl~ms ..<~h~rty-five of of broad Christia~ ide3:ls and ~e~ks the original300 m~rs have left-to encoura~e ~ diver~Ity of hvmg -some to marry, o!h.~rs because styles withm this general 
Grades rising de.spite loW test scores 
by Iver Peterson 

(c) New York Times 
College grades are rising steadily and perhaps at an ac­celerating rate on campuses across the country, although teachers and professors disagree on the reasons why. 
This "grade inflation"-the phrase belongs to David Reisman, the Harvard sociologist--is adding to a growing deba.!~ among students. 
teachers and administrators over the usefulness and real meaning of the A's, B's, C's, D's and F's that have traditionally spelled the difference between success and failure for students seeking scholarships, hoping to get into graduate school, or looking for a good job after graduating. 
Part of the reason lies in the liberalized curriculums and grading systems of the last decade. But teachers and other educators with differing teellngs about the grade rise believe that 


Bikes, like the above, will be more subject to theft as the weather gets warmer. 

Bike thefts 1ncreas1ng 
changing attitudes toward 
students and the role of the 
university, particularly among 
young teachers, have led to more 
generous grading. 
"No questions about it," a senior at the University of Wisconsin said recently. "I never go to school any more, and still ·,get wonderful grades. There's a consensus here that it's a lot 
easier to get good grades." 
On a numerical grade scale 
where 4 is an A and · zero 
represents F, over-all grade 
averages at the student's 
Madison campus went from 2.5 in 
the 1965-66 school year to 2'.8 in 
1970-70. At Northwestern 
University in Evanston, llL, the 
rise has been from 2.7 in 1967 to 
3.0 last year, a shift from a fiigh C average to a B minus. 
Similar trends are present in each of a dozen other universities queried. At Harvard, just over half of 1961 graduated with honors, last Spring the figure was over two-thirds. 
Correspondingly, fewer students at the University of Illinois are flunking out or being put on academic probation. During the 1964-65 school year, the university reported, 16 percent of the undergraduates were either expelled or put on probation for low grades; last 

Bicycle owners should take extra measures to safeguard their bikes over Easter break, ND Security warns. 
Campus bicycle thefts are in­creasing as warm weather ap­proaches. ~xact figures are not available according to Arthur Pears, head of ND Security, Holy Cross Hall seems hardest hit with two ten-speeds stolen this month. 
Pears believes certain residents of South Bend come on campus with bolt cutters and steal bicycles from racks outside residence halls. He suggests all bicycles be stored inside. 
"We are having an awful lot of stolen bikes. Ifa bike is valuable to you, make arrangements with your rector to store the bike inside over vacation," Pears said. 
All dorms will be locked over vacation and security will have extra patrols checking halls to guard against theft. Pears ex­plained that all students staying on campus during the break must secure a pass key from their rector. 
Security strongly suggests all bicycles owners record the serial number of their bikes. It is usually found on the rear of the bike on the permanent portion of the bike frame. 
"The only way to effectively identify a bike is through the serial number. We need the serial number not just the description." Pears said. 
Three years ago ND required bicycles to be registered to insure the serial number was known. Pears said this practice was discontinued because itwas "time consuming and thankless." '_ 
Pears ask's that witnesses to suspected thefts report the in­year, just 3.7 percent fell into that cidents to Security (6130) im­category. mediately. "If it really is a theft we These trends reflect the fin­can probably catch the thief with a dings of a study of 435 colleges patrol car before he leaves cam­and universities conducted last pus," Pears said. year byLeroy S. Burwen, director 
· of institutional research at San1 




FRANKIE'S 

EVERYDAY DINNER 
SPECIALS  
-Ocean Perch  $1 .2 5  
-1 0 oz. Rib-Eye Steak  $1.50  
1-/2 Broasted  Chicken  $1.50  
Includes Tureen Soup, Salad,  

Bread, Butter And Coffee Planning a Party? Frankie's has Special Rates for Student Parties! 
·­
STUDENTS AND FACULTY 21 AND OVER 
RENT-A-PINTO $5 A DAY s~ A MILE Bill Kelley CALL Romy Hall)mes 
Chuck Hamilton Bob Atkinson Fordland Joe Hayden Ford Jordan MotorsSouth Bend Niles, Michigan Mishawaka 289-4041 (616) 683-3920 259-1981 

Francisco State College. Burwen found that the over-all un­dergraduate grade rise was from 
2.4 in 1960 to 2.56 in 1969 was equal to the rise of the previous four years. 
And while grades have gone up, the scores earned by high school seniors on College Entrance Examinations--the familiar Scholastic Aptitude Test--have dropped slightly. Freshmen who entered college in 1966 scored an average 471 out of 800 points; on the verbal test last year's fresh­men got an average of 454. 
Although the divergence of SAT scores and college grades may confirm the suspicion of some teachers that grades are going up even though the students are not any smarter, testing experts caution against reading the connection too literally. The College Boards ask different questions and test a different knowledge from college examinations and term papers, they point out. 
The debate on rising grades turns on the attitudes of teachers, not how smart students are, rises from deeply held feelings among the faculty about the new trends in college education and its changing standards and students. 
Anita Caspary, the president, is to. discover "a new way of people being with other oeonle'' 
Members emphasize that the new religious life-style offers little more personal security than secular life in general, something that draws mixed emotions. 
"I'd be lying if I denied that I missed the old assurance," said Sister Helen, one of the architects of the new style. "The old days were good to me. It's pretty hard to accept the idea that maybe religion and security are an­

Citroen 

Front wheel drive, power. assisted rack & pm1on steering, hydropneumatic suspension for constant level ride, aerodynamic design and .. elegant interiors. What morE' can you ask for? 
Used Specials Of Th Week 
71 850 FIAT SPIDER Like new 70 124 FIAT SPORTS COUPE Real Sharp-An excellent buy 70 OLDS TORNADO Loaded · 13,000 ac1ual miles 69 CITROEN A Choice of Two Pallas and D Special SEE THE 128 FIATS Economy Car of the Year 
.tii&J~·_;;
·auto/~gort~ 
. . ~·~I 
j52148' u.s: 31-u.~·; 
. So th I nd ..,. .j
' u .• . : 
_ .lllo"'-272-2151 -C: · 



6mera/J Wut8 
Sapp~ire 
18h. }ewefra 
cal/ us ••• 

::lJiamonJ !Import Compana 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS 
Seen by Appointment Suite 602 St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Phone 287-1427 
--~-----l 
• J 
9

Monday, March 20, 1972 the observer 

... 


TWA INTRODUCES THE 1972 GETAWAY* PROGRAM. 
This ad wasn't written to amuse you. Itwas written to get you to think. To think of how few school vacations you may have left. 
Before you know it, the 9 to 5 hassle will be starting. So this summer may be your last real chance to travel. To help you plan your getaway, let us send you our free Getaway* Kit. With the Kit you can get: TWA's Stutelpass.* 
A coupon booklet that gives you a room and continental breakfast in either a guesthouse or student hotel in Europe for only $4.80 a night. 
No advance reservations are needed. 

Also included are free coupons that can be used for bullfights, use of a bicycle, theater tickets, sightseeing and more. TWA's Bed and Breakfast Adventures. 
2-to 7 -day guesthouse packages to any of 50 European cities. Among them Amsterdam, where you can spend 3 days for only ~22. And Athens, where 3 nights cost only $16. TWA's Getaway* Card Application. 
With TWI\.s Getaway Card, you can charge airfare, hotels, meals, car rentals, Getaway packages and more. And then take up to two years to pay. 
It's the most widely distributed, widely accepted 

airline card in the world. And it's free. TWA's Youth Passport* Card. Ifyou're 12 thru 21, you can get 1/3 off normal domestic coach flights, on a standby basis. Plus discounts on over 20 other airlines in the United States, Canada, and Europe. 
The card also gets you diseounts at over 700 shops and hotels around the world. TWA's Getaway* Guidebook. 
A 224-page guidebook highlighting 19 ofthe most popular cities in the world. 
r--------PLEASESEND-~E--------, 

TW ~YOUTH GETAWAY KIT. 
TWA, P.O. Box 876 Farmingdale, N.Y. 11735 
Name________________ 
-
Address'-----------,-------­
City________________ 
i State________~ip,___ I I 
t-or mtormat1on contact Campus ~ 1 Rep Peter Boyd

3 TWA 
~~~ Farley Hall 
I 

L~--------------------2~L _____J 
... 
10 the cbserver Monday, March 20, 1972 

Kline seeks SOOth career wzn zn 39th year 
Relievers Art Combs (0-1, 1.47) capable of breaking into the lineup 
by Vic Dorr 
and Mark O'Connell, a sophomroe, at either place.
In all of college sports, it would will make up the Irish bull pen
be hard to find a personality to Notre Dame begins its season­
during the early part of the season.
match Notre Dame's Jake Kline. opening Spring Trip this Friday, Defensively, the Notre Dame with a game at Murray State of
The veteran Irish baseball coach squad has lost very little from last Kentucky. The Irish will stay onwill be opening his 39th season year. Two-year letterman Bob the road until April 4th, and willwhen his squad begins its annual 

play 13 games during this period.
hoemer will be the number oneSpring road trip later this week, catcher, with Dan Phelps as the Their opposition will come fromand the strain of more than a 

top reserve. the likes of North Dakota, Mem­quarter-century of competition has 

phis State, Arkansas State and

done nothing to lessen his en­Kline's infield will consist of Joe 
Christian Brother's College.
thusiams for the game. LaRocca at first, Tony Zappia at second, Pete Schmidt (who played The Irish will be starting their 
"I like the damn game," said in te outfield last year) at short­season at something of a disad­

Kline, "Or I wouldn't have stayed stop, and Rob Reschan at third. vantage, though, for the Indiana in it this long. Now, I don't want to 
Two returnees (Tom O'Connor and weather has limited them to verytry to predict what we're going to Jim Panici> and a trio of freshmen little outside practice time, and do this year, because it would <Tony Larocci, Tom Mille and Ken they have been forced to rely on 

make us look bad if we didn't come indoor practice in the Convocation
Rump l will provide bench strength 

up to the prediction. But we've got in the infield. Center fieldhouse. a fine bunch of boys this year, and I do think we're going to have a good The Irish outfield has undergone "It's a disadvantage, all right," season." the greatest overhaul since the '71 admitted Kline, "but the others 
season. Sophomore Die shouldn't be too far ahead of us.
Kline has good reason to be Nussbaum, a part-time regular Our real handicaps have come onexcited about Notre Dame's 1972 last year, will open the season in the weekends when the weather isdiamond campaign. The Irish play 

.. 
center field. Kenny Schuster, bad and some 'extra~urricular 
a :!7-game schedule this season another soph, will start in left, and activity-keeps us from practicing<including the spring trip), and 12 Howard Wood, a J.C. transfer from inside. That's the kind of thingND victories will nudge Kline's California, will hold down the right we've been up against."
mark for career wins over the 500 
field spot. Kline's team will kick off itslevel. During his multi-season The main back-up strength in the regular season the week afterspan as head coach, Irish baseball 
teams have won 488 games and lost outfield will come from utility man Spring Break with an April 11th 
363. Tom Hansen, who can play either home game against the Nor­infield or outfield. and who is thwestern Wildcats. 
Last year, with a team made up largely of underclassmen, the Irish finished with an 11-21 record, and 



Fencers post tainted 
were ruined by a mid-season slump that saw them lose 14 of 16 
•
games. 


wtn over Wayne St.
"Timely hitting would have won a lot of those games for us last year," said Kline, "and that's what by Joe Wilkowski The momentum changed after we're going to do this season. We the final sabre match as ND 
Senior sabremen Ron Sollitto simultaneously lost two 5-4 bouts.

want to try We want to try to in­Ed llrabcsak, the only Irish pitcher to finish the year with an over-.500 
crease our RBI total, and to cut and Matt Fruzynski sparked the The Irish then cropped three more 

record <:1-1) is expected to be one of the mainstays of the Notre Dame
Irish fencing team to a 14-13 vic­matches before Chuck Harkness

down on strikeouts at the same pitching staff this season. 


time. But college hitting is always tory over undefeated Wayne State, won the controversial final bout. 
a victory tainted by the Tartans' The meet was extremely close, asa problem, and you never know forfeiture of the last and deciding seen by the 13, 5-4 bouts that werehow things are going to develop." 
bout. fought, of which the Irish could winThe Irish attack, which lost but five. 
reliable Phil Krill and long-ball The forfeiture resulted when the threat Chuck Horan to graduation, Tartan's Charles Schneider scored The epee team edged the Tar­
will be paced this season by what seemed to be the final touch tans with a 5-4 record. Both sophomore Pete Schmidt. Sc~midt in a 5-4 bout against Chuck Harkness and Mike Matranga led the team in times at bat020l, Harkness. Harkness, however, carded two victories against WSU. hits (44), and average (.367) last contended that he too had hit his The foil team posted only a 3-6 
opponent, which would have
season, and the Irish will be slate, but some of this was due to 
resulted in no touch. When his
relying on him again this year. Wayne State's stacking in the foil 
epee was checked for malfunction, 
event. In addition to all-American Joining Schmidt as key figures in the director of the bout concluded Rick Milazzo, whom both Tome
th Notre Dame offense are Bob that the weapon was indeed faulty, Coye and Mike Cornwall beat, they 
Reschan (.347), Dan Phelps (.292), at which point the Wayne State also placed the Great Lakes


and captain Joe LaRocca (.265). coach, who saw things differently, 
tourney Sabre Champion, Steve 

Novak named cage MVP
left the gym with his team and
But while the Irish attack lost Danosi, in the event. Coye led the 

two regulars to graduation, the ND forfeited the final bout and the Irish foil team with a 2-1 slate. Sophomore Gary "Goose" for the Irish, who suffered through mound staff lost only one. That one match. Novak, the leading scorer and a 6-20 campaign under first year 
was workhorse Ron Schmitz, but Kline is expecting his available personnell to fill that gap in the roster. 
"Our season this year is going to depend on our pitching," he said, "and it could be better than last year's." 
Ed Hrabscak, (3-1 record, 2.25 EHA l, who was the only pitcher to finish last season with a record above .500, figures to be one of NO's top hurlers again this year. lie will be joined in Kline's starting rotation by Jim Noe (3-3, 2.84), Mike Riddell (2-6, 3.44), Rich Eich (1-3, 3.50) and probably Bill Lucas. 

Notre Dame will be sending rebounder on the Notre Dame coach Richard "Digger'~ Phelps.
Notre Dame built up a com­

manding 13-8 lead in the meet, three representatives to the basketball team this season, was Other awards were presented to paced by three victories from both National Championships to be held named the club's Most Valuable John Egart, Tom O'Mara and Sollitto and Fruzynski. Both this seek on the campus of the Player at the annual Notre Dame Willie Townsend. Egart, a senior sabremen thus broke Doug Daher­University of Illinois at Chicago basketball dinner last week in the guard, was named the team's Most 
s record for victories in a single Circle. Ron Sollitto, 43-5, Chuck ACC. Courageous player, O'Mara won 
season, Sollitto finishing with a 43-5 Harkness, 34-8, and Mike Corn­Novak, from LaSalle, Ill., the Fr. Tom Brennan award for record and Fruzynski at 42-6. The wall, 36-11, man one of the averaged 19.5 points and 10.3 Free Throw Shooting Proficiency, 


SIMER I s 
DELICIOUSI Italian sandwiches, 
spaghetti and sea foods 

·-• 
M 
-PIZZA­
E COLD CARRY OUT 
BEER-WINE-LIQUOR
R 64 oz. Pitcher Beer 
$1 32 
Daily 

... 
I I 
POOL TABLES 
s 
FREE USE OF DINING ROOM FOR CLUB MEETINGS, ETC. 
PLENTY OF PARKING 
Call Jim 233-2267, 410 No. Hill. 
,____ --------·· ---­
pair paced the sabre team to convincing 6-3 win. 
A;.~stralia-A Blunder Down Under The REAL truth jlbout ~-u~ralia. 
~rrrv1 ~~rlo~m~~cans,un~9 plg·~ 
rnentL Gusiness fii·:W'l('lms,~un~s
,tran1111-but true 'r'h1s ., pag~
boo)< pas Aust. news artie es an 
statistiCS JO prove J't and tells o 
our experoences an how we were J&.ken 011er the .coal~ bj; th(;~p{Td
llf~~~~oxA'B~s'::'ii nc~d~,NY'12304 
I 





OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Pages 10 and II 
strongest Irish NCAA entries in rebounds per game while and Townsend was voted the club's recent history. emerging as a standout performer Most Inspirational Player. 
a 

YOU GET BE'I.I'ER LOOKING AT 
with CONTACT LENSES 
No hassle. Slip into the action with better vision without bother. Contact lenses help you see better, keep you looking great. Feel free to join the action with contact lenses ... You get better looking at Union. 


------------------~ -------­
11

Monday, March 20, 1972 the observer 

Bengal battles 
took the last round, McGrath won aby Jim Donaldson unanimous decision because of hisSports Editor early success.

St. PatricK s uay at Notre Dame Gary Canori gave a "boxingwouldn't have been complete exhibition" in the 145-pound finale.
without a few brawls and, for those The senior from Watertown, N.Y. 
not chipper enough to fight their outboxed the game but less ex­plenty of
own hattles, there was perienced Tom Hanlon and won a
fisticuff action to be seen Friday unanimous decision. Canori hasnight at the ACC. 
Hanlon bleeding in the opening

Fightin' Irishmen named round and, although he didn't McGrath, Kerrigan, Carney come close to knocking out the and some adopted sons of the old South Bend junior, he was in sod like Canori, Chamblee and control all the way.Steenberge won title fights in the Two sophomores, Tom Bole and 41st annual Bengal Bouts. Mike Sanders, squared off for the 
Twenty-two of Notre Dame's 150-pound title and Sanders finest boxers staged some don­narrowly emerged with the vic­nybrooks that would have warmed tory, by unanimous decision. 
many a Dubliners' heart, and Sanders sent Bole to the canvas made for one of the most spirited once in each of the first two rounds Bengal programs in recent years. but Bole shookoff the early beating 
Defending champions Pat and came close to knocking McGrath, Gary Canori and Kevin Sanders out in the final session. Kerrigan and Ed Carney retained Bole decked Sanders midway 
their crowns and ex-titlist Roland through the third round and, later, Chamblee gained revenge and literally had him "on the ropes" another championship trophy with but was unable to land the blow tha victories. would have given him the fight. 
Freshman Larry FinneranIn other bouts on the 11-fight almost deprived senior Kevincard, Larry Semerad, Mike Kerrigan of his third consecutiveSanders, Bill McGrath, Dennis Bengal championship, losing aClark and Mike Webb were split decision. Kerrigan was inproclaimed the winners. 

control in the first round but Norm Barry landed this punch on Roland Chamblee's chin but Chamblee got in the last blow and recorded aSemerad and Mike Loughrey got 
Finneran, connecting consistently TKO victory over the Walsh Hall senior in their bout for the 165-pound title Friday night. 
the night's activity off to a good with lefts, came back strong in the pound bracket. The pair traded f ll . . 
start with a rousing battle in the punches for three rounds and both ootba tea~n, aellvered a number onslaught of blows. Webb tried
last two rounds and Kerrigan was 

125-pound class. Semerad was were bleeding from the early of d~vestatmg punches to Moor-hard f?r the knock~ut and actually 
hard pressed to keep him at bay 

very aggressive throughout the and retain the title. minutes until the end of the fight. man s hea~ before the referee grew bred of throwmg punches but fight and his punishing left jab had Ed Carney was a repeat winner King was quicker but Clark was stopp~d the fight at the 0:50 ~ark of was unable to drop Moorman for Loughrey groggy in the final in the 160-pound class, besting Odie stronger and o~ce King was the third round. The amazmg part the count. In a consolation bout round. The judges had no dif­Polk. Carney, a junior, built up an slowed by Cla~k's werful blows of the bout was tha~ M~rman ~ell between two 170-pounders, Bill ficulty selecting the winner, the Grace Hall ·:Or was able t~ but once, that commg m the first McGrath and Jim Talarico,
advantage in the first two rounds,

awarding Semerad the unanimous landing several good punches hit King often inough to pick up round when he dropped to the McGrath, a former Bengal champ, 
on 

decision. the win b unanimous decision. canvas after W~bb land~ f~mr was . awarded..a win by a
Polk's head, Polk tried hard for a Pat St~nberge was declared sledg~har_nmger rights to h~s chm. unammous ,decision. Talarico'sPat McGrath appeared well on knockout in the third stanza but the winner by a splitdecision in his Webb s victory ~as never m doubt power wa~n t enough to overco~ehis way to an easy win in the 135-Carney wisely blunted the soph's light heavyweight division bout -the only question ~as how lo~g McGrath s speed and boxmgpound before Matt Cavanaugh wild rushes by clinching with Cecil Boot, although many Moorman could withstand his savvy.

. Using his speed and quickness to In one of the night's more ex­fans thought the judges should great advantage, McGrath out­citing bouts, Roland Chamblee have ruled the other way. Boot staged a rousing third round rally. frequently. 
ND announces 1972-73
boxed Cavanaugh in the first two won his grudge match with Norm was more aggressive in the first 
but almost lost the fight in Barry for the 165-pound cham­round but Steenberge parried his 
final session when the Badin pionship. Chamblee, a titlist as a rushes well and, apparently, two 
Hall sophomore decked him with a freshman but Barry's upset victim judges gave the round to Steen­basketball schedule
Althoul!h Cavanaugh last year, proved his superiority by berge and one to the Fisher Hall 
recording a third round TKO in his soph because there wasn't any 

rematch with the Walsh Hall question about who won the final Five new opponents, including courts. Digger Phelps' quintet
Tennis team 
senior. A late flurry of punches two stanzas. Big Ten power Ohio State, plus will meet Southeastern Con­. • gave Barry an edge in the first Boot dominated the second games with the premier teams in ference champion Kentucky in 
round but both fighters cut loose in round, bloodying Steenberge with college basketball headed by top Freedom Hall in Louisville for the 
the second session, rocking each some solid head punches, and' ranked UCLA, highlight the 1972-73 11th straight year, Fordham in 
by Eric Kinkopf other with rights and lefts. The looked as if he might breeze to a Notre Dame basketball schedule. Madison Square Garden and ­
The Notre Dame tennis team got bigger Chamblee fared better than win. Steenberge came back Illinois at Chicago Stadium. 
wtns patr 
The 26-game schedule, including 
its 1972 spring schedule off the Barry in the heavy hitting and stronger than ever in the third Ohio State, runnerup in the 1972
13 in the Athletic and Convocation
ground Saturday with a pair of came out strong in the final stanza, round, however, and, attacking Big Ten race after winning the
Center, was announced last week
easy victories, dumping Purdue, 8-decking Barry with a left early in aggressively, kept Boot on the run previous year,, will clash with the
by Athletic Director Edward
l, and DePaul, 9-0. the round. Barry was able to rise througout the final round. Irish for the Irish since 1936. The
<Moose) Krause. And it should 
In the Purdue match, the Irish before the count of ten, but, when The heavyweights were the last Bucks hold a 5-3 series edge in­
easily match last year's state that
singles players won with ease, with Chamblee put him down again with to appear in the ring and Mike cludng a 28-23 win in 1936.
was rated as one of the three
only one match going the three­a flurry of punches ath the 50 Webb sent the crowd home awed toughest nationally. Other new opponents include 
game distance. second mark, the referee stopped by his display of power and, at the Pittsburgh, Xavier, Butler, and
Included in the schedule are
Buster Brown, John Allare, Mike the fight. same time, amazed by the gutsy Atlantic Coast Conference 
games with eight teams par­
Reilly, Brandon Walsh, Rob Denny Clark and Byron King performance of Bob Moorman. member, Duke. The Irish have
ticipating in post-season tour­
Schefter and John Carrico staged another slugfest in the 175-Webb, a linebacker for the Irish played all four teams in previous
naments this year -Kentucky,
recorded victories in the singles 
seasons with long-time for ButlerUCLA, Marquette, Villanova, and
action. returning after an absence of just
South Carolina in the NCAA and
The only blemish of the weekend one year.
Indiana, Fordham and St. John's
for the Irish, as they took 17 of the In addition to Ohio State, the
in the NIT.

total 18 points, came when Buster Irish also play tournament-bound 
Brown and John Allare were The Irish will again meet UCLA UCLA, Indiana and South Carolina 
defeated in doubles action. in a home-an-home series while at home along with Big Eight 
The number one Irish duo was facing three opponents on neutral power Kansas. 
dumped by the Boilmaker combo 
DECEMBER
of Giordano-Plump in three sets, 4­2 (Saturday)--at Miclngan
6,6-4, 6-4. 
4 (Monday)~HIO STATE
The other Irish doubles com­i (Wednesday)-VALPARAISObinations of Walsh-Chris Kane, and 9 (Saturday)--at St. LouisReilly-Carrico mopped up in the 12 (Tuesday)-INDIANAnumber two and three spots 23 (Saturday)-at UCLAagainst the Boilermakers. 
The DePaul was 30 (Saturd<ry )-Kentuck.Y at Louisville
match even more of a breeze for coach Fallon's JANUARY 
i (Saturday)-KANSAScharges. 
The Irish were gifted with three 11 (Thursday)--at DP.Paul 
uncontested points in the meet, as 13 (Saturday)--at Marquette 
DePaul forfeited in the number 17 (Wr.dnesday)-PITTSBURGH 
two singles, and the number two %8 (Saturday)-DAYTON 
and three doubles spots. :l2 (Monday)--at Duquesne 
Brown. Reilly, Walsh, ScheCter 26 (F'riday)-Illinois at Chicago 
and Carrico all took singles vic­'li (Satu~l-UCLA

tories, with Carrico's win being the FEBRUARY
only match that went three sets. I (Thursday}---3t Villanova Brown and Allare avenged their 
3 (Saturday)-XAVIER
earlier loss easily winning in tbe 5 (Monday)-BVTLERnumber one doubles against 7 (Wednesday)-MICHIGAN STATEDePaul. 
18 (Salurday)-LASALLEThe team leaves for Mexiro on 15 (Thursday)--at Fordh<lmTuesday morning for a twoweek­li (Setturday)--at Dukeplus stay south of the Border. 
22 (ThursdaY)--at West VirginiaWhile below the Rio Grande the l4 (Saturday)--at St. John'sracqueteers will compete against 28 (Wednesdayl-WESTERS t\IICHIGANnumerous Mexican tennis clubs, "Bustt"r" Brown, Notre Dame's number one player, recorded a pair of 
and participate in the Mexican \'ictorit"s as the Irish opened their 1972 campaign with easy wins over MARCH 
National Tournament. Purdut" and DePaul Saturday. 3 (SaturdaJ)-80t.:TH CAROLINA 
.. 
12 the observer Monday, March 20, 1972 
Observer Insight 
Workers organize against lettuce growers 

by Frank Zivl' 

Another, and perhaps the most crucial, battle between the United Farm Workers Organizing Committee (UFWOCl and California lettuce gruwers has begun in a Gresno, California courtroom. 
Attorneys for the National Labor Relations Board <NLRB) filed a petition in a federal district court in Fresno on March 9 asking for a 
Begun in 1964 
nationwide injunction that would bar the UFWOC from conducting boycotts of products ot any growers. such an injunction would 
remove UFWOC's most  effective  
tool  in  its  struggles  agamst  
growers.  

It was a 5-year grape boycott that finally brought about negotiations that resulted in the farm workers receiving a wage of $2.10 an hour and 10 minute breaks every four hours. It was a lettuce boycott a year ago that resulted in Salinas Valley lettuce growers recognizing UFWOC in a jurisdictional controversy with the Teamsters. 
The hearing to determine whether the injunction will be issued is scheduled for April 6. The NLRB also plans to begin unfair labor practice hearings dealing with the issue of permanently 

Students to tutor S.C. residents 
r 
A group of students plan to leave this Wednesday for Hampton County, South Carolina, in order to tutor residents of that un­derprivileged area. 
Paul Fuchs, local organizer for 

the project, said that at present he 
l ahd 17 students ready to go and would take more if he had the trailsportation. "There has been a very llood renonse to'the program, but unfortunately we haven't had too many offers or cars. I think we could take 25 people it we have the transportation." 
The program for bringing students down to Hampton County was begun at Notre Dame in 1964 in order to help in voter registration after the Civil Rights Act was passed. The organizer in Hampton is James Moore, a state representative for the NAACP, and founder of the Committee for Betterment of Poor People. 
Now, since the voterregistration is straightened out, the main aim of the program is to educate the people of the conty, and perhaps, as Fuchs said, "to stabilize the economic position of the peopole by raising their standard of education." 
Fuchs stressed that Moore was the primary organizer of the program, and that, he, Moore, felt that one of the aims was to bring students down to South Carolina, not merely on a temporary basis to tutor just during Easter vacation, but with the hope that "they will like it enough to reutrn for perhaps a year or more to teach .... maybe even to come back to live as doctors and lawyers." 
The other local organizer of the program is Joyce Miller. Fuch:;o said that he could be reached b) any interested party who might wish to drive or lese is interested in the program at 234-5889. 


Concert Band to tour western states set spring concert in April 
Mary's College. 
C,oncert band members of the 
Compositions of the 1972 tour will 

University of Notre Dame are 
include "Fingal Cave Overture"

putting final touches on a program 
by Mendlesohn; "Chit Chat

of show tunes, marches and 
Polka" by Strauss; "La

classieal music which they will 
Mas~arada" by Harold Walters; 

perform on a tour of six Western 
"Pineapple Poll" by Arthur

states between April l and 8. The 
Sullivan; "Preludes in Fugures"

group will return to the campus for 
by Cecil Effinger and Bach;

the annual spring concert 
several Broadway songs, including 

scheduled for 8: 15 pm April 9 in 
a medley from "No,No Nanette"; 

()'Laughlin Auditorium of St. 
"Stardust by Hoagey Carmichael; 

Chess team takes 2nd 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
RIDES WANTED 

DRIVING SOUTH? 
WANTED: Wine bottles (empty,

People need ride(sl to Baton of course( TO BE USED IN Rouge New Orleans area, for 
DECORATING THE North 

break. Call Rick 8257. 
Dining Hall & South Dining Hall for Italian Night. Please bringNeed ride to Davenport Iowa, 1-80 your empty bottles to the 

west. Call 8423. 
Manager's Office of the North Dining hall or the South Dining

Need ride to Florida for spring hall, prior to April 7th. )break. Call Mary Ann 4552. 
Wanted: 3-4 students to sublet a 

Need ride to Detroit and or back house for the summer in SB. 3 for Easter. Call Roger 1588. 
blocks from campus. Call Tim 3305. 

Need ride to D.C. Wed., March 22. Will pay. Call Tom 1409. 
PERSONALS 

Ride needed to Mass. area for Jane,break. Call Sean 1402. 
To the Arkie Sprout who bloomed. Game Room 

Ride wanted to E. Mass or anywhere close. Will pay. Call 
NOTICES

John 1729. 
Juniors! Some make~up ap­Need ride to Milwaukee vicinity. 

pointments still available for your

Leave March 22. Will share ex~ 
senior portrati for the '73 Dome. 

penses. Call Rick Darnell 7747. 
Phone 1454 IMMEDIATELY. 
FOR SALE 
STUDY AND TRAVEL IN EUROPE 

For Sale: '63 Comet-excellent 6 week summer session at 
condition· $325. Call Tim 3305. 
University of Vienna earns 6 N D credits. Act now! 234-6519. 

For Sale: '63 VW Good condition. Phil 3444, Ned 2164. 
Parts and Accessories for Im­ported Cars. Foreign Car-Parts STEREO SPEAKERS . Exciting 

co. 215 Dixieway North 

new sound. Unbeatable buys. 
(Roseland l 272-7187. 

Call 283-8462. 
Drive a ways now available to By owner: Swanson Highland. 

your home town. Inexpensive and 

Attractive ranch. All brick. 4 
convenient travel. Call 7843. 

bedrooms, 21 > baths, family 
. ----------­

room, central air. 272-6024. 
JOBS ON SHIPS! MEN. WOMEN. Perfect summer job orHandsome Leather BELTS. 

career. No experience required.

Made on campus. On display at Excellent pay. Worldwide travel.
Tony's Shoe Shop behind Adm. 
Sent $2.00 for information.

Bldg. 
Seafax, Box 1239-IG, Seattle, Washington 98111.

Golf Cart for sale or rent. Call Jim 8906. 
LOST AND FOUND Two sets speakers. Utah; Dynaco; also cameras, en­
Lost Keys on long chain. cyclopedias. Call 1678. 
Generous reward. Help! Call 8320 

Lost: Span ish textbook in K.1rma. Plush. Call 272-5014, 
1969 Dodge Van V ~8 Eng. Good 
Nieuwland. If found call Barry, S1350. A real steal. 
7747. 

Lost: Brown sweater left in 217 FOR RENT 
O'Shag. Tues. 14. Call Bob 3339. 

Dual Bmm projector for rent. Call Lost: 21 jewel Timex watch. 
Don, 3729. 
Reward. Paul 1208. 

-
The University of Notre Dame's Chess Team placed second in the Indiana Collegiate Chess Tour­nament at Ball State University. The Team consisted of four mathematics majors, who have 
also resurrected the Chess Club at Notre Dame. 
Notre Dame received a trophy bearing the names of the four students: John Kelley, Wilmette·, Ill. junior; Mike Antolino, Ramsey, N.J. freshman; Pierre Espenan, New Orleans, La. fresh­man; and Geoffrey Hui, Tytam, Hong Kong, junior.
Dr. Ronald Goldstein, assistant professor of mathematics and advisor to the new Chess Club, 


Education policy 
(Continued from page 4 
Last Christmas, Henry took a group excavating in the Southwest. However, the program takes a year to plan, the new president 
said Wednesday in Minnesota. 
Faculty would teach only three courses intead of four. Students could only elect twelve or 15 hours. 
Calendar Crisis----Despite faculty and student distress at Notre Dame's new calendar, "In by Labor Day, Out by Christman," because of extensive co-exchange with Notre Dame, the College Academic Council felt obliged to pass the university one. 
SMC's new hierarchy felt that a veto on the new calendar would not faze the University one bit. However, if Notre Dame at Wednesday's special Academic Gouncil meeting passes the student-proposed calendar, SMC new administrators would gladly switch-over . 
explained that the four students won their second place in a fifld of 14 teams with little coaching or preparation. "Now we are pmch more organized," he added. "We are practicing'avariety of opening moves and defenses, and gaining some good theory as well." 
The newly-formed Chess Club is also sponsoring several chess tournaments at Notre Dame, he said, open to members and non­members alike. 
"Sophisticated Lady" by Duke Ellington; and a group of marches, including the traditional "Notre Dame victory March." 
The group's first appearance April I will be a benefit per­formance for the East Buchanan High School band in Winthrop, Iowa, a school attended by the bands first female performer, Rosemary Cook. Other stops will be at McCook, Neb., Amarillo, Texas, Dodge City, Kan., Marymount College in Salina Kan., the Powell Symphony Auditorium in St. Louis Mo., and the Civic Opera House, Chicagofor a benefit performance for Montini High School of Lombard, Ill. 
A group of solo instrumentalists who will perform in special numbers include William H. Todd, sophomore from Maple Heights , Ohio. clarinetists; Lois DelValle, South Bend, Oboe; S. Paul Cahill, Troy, Mich., strings; Edward Sheridan, bass; and Kemit Kaericher, McLean, Va., alto saxophone. The band is under the 8irection of Robert F. O'Biren. 
SMORGASBORD 
Every Monday 5-9 pm $1.25 All you can eat' 
Every Wednesday evening 
$1.00 PITCHER NIGHT ·AND LIVE ENTERT~INMENT 
Every Friday night 
LIVE ENTER~AINMENT 
Every Saturday night POLKA BAND·DANCING 
Open Weekdays 11 a.m. -12 p.m. 



tAUREL &HARDY· 
PIZZA .PALACE 4110 Western Ave. Belle~ille Shoppin~t c"enter 
Phone 289-7983 

halting boycotts, but no date has been set for these hearings. 
Speakers will be at the main quad on the Notre Dame campus today at noon to explain the court action and UFWOC's position. 
The latest round in the UFWOC­growers controversy is the result of a change of position by the NLRB. On two separate occasions, the latest being March 15, 1971, NLRB general counsel had written to UFWOC stating the organization was not a "labor union"under the 
National  Labor  Relations  Act  
<NLRAl.  
This  is  critical  as  secondary  

boycotts--boycotts on products rather than just a strike--are not permitted under the NLRA. Since UFWOC was not considered covered • by the act, which specifically excludes agriculture workers from its protections and benefits such as minimum wages, its boycotts were not unlawful. 
Peter Nash, appointed recently by President Nixon as general counsel to the NLRB, has aban­doned this position and has ad­vanced the theory that UFWOC is a labor union within the act's framework and therefore is sub­ject to its restrictions. 
According to a fact sheet from UFWOC supporters, Nash's action came in response to a request made by several California growers including lettuce growers from the Salinas Valley who are presently being boycotted 
It appears that the legal reason for the change in the NLRB's position is a technical one. UF­WOC has some members who work in produce packing sheds and workers in the sheds are covered by the NLRA. The theory is that since some of UFWOC's members are covered by the act, then the organization does meet the statutory definition of a "labor union." 
However, since agriculture workers are excluded from the act, none of the benefits of the NRLA will be bestowed upon the UFWOC members working the fields. 
UFWOC's leader Cesar Chavez, in a letter to supporters, stated, "The boycott is breath and life for our union. We are taking our cause to the American people. We ask you to judge our struggle, to test our committtment to non-violence, and to consider the gross injustice of this Republican move against farm workers." 
Chavez also aksed supporters to write to Senator Robert J. Dole, chairman of the Republican National Committee, 310 First St. S.E., Washington, D.C., 20003 to protest the action. 
Local UFWOC supporters are planning to go to Indianapolis Monday April 3 to show their concern to the NLRB and state GOP leaders. They are en­couraging all students returning from Easter break and join them 
Local UFWOC supporters are planning to go to Indianapolis Monday April 3 to show their concern to the NLRB and state GOP leaders. They are en­couraging all students to return from Easter break and join them for the trip to Indianapolis. For further information, call Delfina Landeros, 232-3452, Daniel Tirado 259-0291 or Franny Zive 282-2476. 

.... 






