-
-

---------
~----------------------------------... 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1966 
Legal Apts. For OH-Campusers Seen as Near 
A move to increase otf campus means no restrictions on choice of autonomy, including the legaliza­living quarters. · tion of apartment living, is im­oSince the university has been 
minent, The Observer learned to­granting increasingly large chunks day. of self-determination to on cam­
University and off-campus offi­pus students in how they live and cials are expected to meet tonight discipline themselves, off-campus to discuss the problems involved in students should share in the loosing some of the strings for "flaw." those students resigned to South • Enrollment has grown in recent 
Bend habitation. Reportedly the ad­year, more by accident of more ministration will observe the suc­acceptances of admission offers cess of Norman Jeddeloh and his than by design. Nonetheless, this off-campus judiciary board before has had the effect of forcing more it makes a final decision on the students off campus and crowding off-campus living facillties. even further the already-cwwded 
Jeddeloh, a junior and former rooming house market. Accomo­member of the Student Affairs dations now are scarce, and the Commission, has formulated a prospect for the situation improv­board for off-campus studentsthat ing is bleak. plan to establish rules and regula­Many bitter off-campus students tions for the some 1800 students were somewhat pacified last who live in the South Bend summer when the University vicinity. agreed to allow them to own and 
Reliable sources indicate that 
operate motor vehicles. But there Jeddeloh's committee has re­
are many, who think that there viewed six cases involving dis­
are rights still being denied. That, ciplinary infractions in a manner 
more than anything else, say the similar to the individual hall dis­
sources is for Jeddeloh's com­ciplinary boards organized and op­mittee and the regular meetings erated by students and supported by between the University and the 
the University. off-campus leaders. 
Those involved feel that the move for off-campus autonomy will unify the off-campus students into what one has called "a favorable ghetto of men confined for a common purpose and directed toward a goal 
of comTTitmi:v." Return to the Part of the increased respon­
sibility of the off-campus students will be the apartment issue. Be­fore this year all off-campus stu­beginnings 
dents were restricted from living alone or in houses. Specifically they were required to live in homes. 
SOMETIUNGS OLD, SOMETHINGS NEW -and The Observer King Pins huddle together to spread of South Bend residents, homes that the ink, big bold and black over this 12 page issue. The Observer, Notre name's newest paper is were approved by and registeredcompiled weekly in this dingy room high atop LaFortune's palor. The men are editors, the girl i5 with the Dean of Students. The Observer for beauty and the statue for atmosphere -all components of the Observer volume 1 Issue t. 
Altho Dean of Students, Rev. Joseph Simons and Jeddeloh him­self deny any such manuver to allow off campus students to re­celebrates side in apartments, the actions of
Student Stress Study Slated 
Jeddeloh's committee and admin­istration's
·•what's bugging you?" That's Sociology Hobert Hassenger. Bulk questioned some students, spent an new stress on student 
responsibility are seen as pointing a birthdaythe question being asked at Notre of the information concerning the hour at the Senior Bar and toured to the marked change of rules forDame and five other pilot schools student pressures will come from South Bend ''night clubs." 
off-campus students.
in the Student Stress research questionaires and personal inter-Cumulated data from students program sponsored by the Natio-views. will be filtered to the Mental 
If the off-campus autonomy is nal Student Association and Natio-Student Stress is designed by Health Headquarters where it will 
realized and the entailed apart­nal Institute of Mental Health. the NSA as a two year program be analyzed and published in book 
ment living approved it seems The program, financed by a to help the University in assesing form. likely that many long-lived gripes see Editorial $25,000 grant from NIMH, main-its curriculum and social guidance Severa1 statistics collected by 
of the off-campus students will be eliminated. Among argumentstains that the problems students facilities. Student Stress research national survey first prodded NIMH face on the campus are more invol-has been endorsed by University to finance the study, The surveys 
being cited: ved than bad food, lack of social President Theodore Hesburgh, the revealed: nearly 1,000 college stu-• Whether real or imagined, the on page 6 functions and insufficient course Faculty and many concerned stu-dents will commit suicide this status of the off-campus is tanta­planning. dents. year, presumeably because of the mount to an outcast, At the very The local study will be con-Last week the research coor-over-stress, that 60 percent of least, many are pointing out, they ducted by a committee of students dination began when Phillip Hol-college freshman will drop out of ought be able to equal the status headed by junior Gary Olney and land, NSA consultant on the project, school before they complete the of so-called "outcasts" at other advised by assistant professor of visited the Notre Dame campus, first year. universities. Specifically, this 
A Pro~nise, A Purpose, A Newspaper Is Born 
1 
1 
1 
One week after the Notre Dame and decreed euthanasia. As Feld­wlll shape editorial policy. and outlook." opens the observer's year with a publication population was deci­In the days that followed the edi­Part of the outlook, according
haus put it, "Because we killed the special editorial appearance. Hls
mated by the untimely but rather product didn't mean we were mur­tors filled out a new masthead. to Anson and Feldhaus, will be name: Ara Parseghian, (see pageexpected demise of the VOICE, it Named as executive editor was
dering the idea. There was a need shaped by the addition of several 
finds itself once again at full W. Hudson Giles; news editor, Pat
for ·a news-oriented publication new features. The Newspaper 
F.:eaction among student and ad-strength, The newest arrival is then, and there is now. We just Collinst sports editor, Bob Scheu­Enterprise Association, has con­·~· ministration officials to plans forTHE OBSERVER, a twelve-page went out and g:>t it." ble; features editor, Michael tracted with THE OBSERVER to creating THE OBSERVERhas beenweekly (for the first month of its Getting it for Feldhaus meant Smith, and business manager, John supply nationalpoliticalpundits, an enthusiastic. Vice-President foroperation, thereafter an eight page starting from scratch --a new Guzauskas. editorial cartoonlst and the popular Student Affairs Rev. Charles Mebi-weekly) journal of Notre Dame name, new personnel, and most Under the anxious aegis of the and incisive brush of "Berry's Carragher promised full support
critically, a new approach. After editors, other chanj;l,es were made. World," NEA features regularly
and its students, which, in the and encouragement, as did Student 
appear in such newspapers as Tnewords of its editors, will do just hurried negotiations scant days Most noticeably, perhaps, is the Body President Jim Fish. Fish"sCleveland PRESS, The Washing­
what its name proclaims: observe, before the Voice's scheduled face of THE OBSERVER. Starker, cabinet also pled~d financial
ton DAILY NEWS and the Pitts­
remark, notice, comment and demise, Robert Anson, former "whiter" and morP. simplified than succor for the newspaper on acon­
burgh PRESS.
adhere. associate editor of the SCHOLAS­its predecessor, the paper leans ditional basis. But, say Feldhaus How the newspaper came to be TIC, agreed to join the venture as toward the tabloid, Its stories Book reviews by Tom Donnelly and Anson, most encouragf.ng, has 
in the first place is a bit more co-editor-in-chief. According to are crisp, often short, and always of the Washington DAILY NEWS been the promise of Dan lUrray,
the terms of the agreement reached w111 appear alongside the critical,
complicated than its credo. Some­factual. Says Anson, "The look is editor of the newspaper"a chief time little more than a week ago between Feldhaus and Anson, the cultural and humorous efforts of competitor,. the SCHOLASTIC, to
comoartmentalized; the place tor 
Notre Dame-based writers on the
Steve Feldhaus, then editor of the former retains complete financial drive "toward greater cooperation now-defunct Voice. met with a control while the latter assumes everything and everything in its (])server's new feature page (see of the two publlcations, both bet­
place thing, Quite simply, we've page-7),
handful of key staffers, assessed responsibility every layout, news ween themselves and the com­the newspapers manifold diseases, judgment and personnel. Both men tried to ¢ve it direction --in look In sports, a guest colunm.ist munity they serve." 
the observer Friday, November 3, 1972 

warld 
briefs 
(cl 1972 New York Times 
Washington-President Nixon insisted Thursday night on a televised political broadcast that the draft agreement for a Vietnam settlement would not be signed until all remaining issues were solved. He declared that "We are going to sign the agreement when the agreement is right, not one day before-and when the agreement is right, we are going to sign without one day's delay." 
Ottawa-Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau of Canada said that he had decided to let the newly elected Parliament determine the fate of his Liberal government. His announcement was a rejection of demands by the Conservative leader, Robert L. Stanfield, that he resign. 
Washington-White House aides involved in President Nixon's campaign have received reports of the Secret Service, whose agents are assigned to protect Sen. George McGovern, about confidential meetings of the Democratic Presidential candidate, according to a Secret Service informant. Certain information collected by the agency reportedly has been given to the White House in violation of the agency's rules. 
Cincinnati-sen. George McGovern, his voice hoarse and cracking, campaigned doggedly through Illinois, Ohio and Michigan seeking the 72 electoral votes of those states. A sizable part of the 270 he needs to win on election day. He encountered some of the sharpest questions of his campaign on this trip. 
fri. 
I: 00 p.m.--football, nd j.v. vs. michigan state, cartier field 
5:00 p.m.--meeting, smc off-campus and day students, little theatre _ 6:45, 8:30, 10:15 & midnight -movie, willard, knights of 
columbus hall 7:30, 1:00 p.m.--movie, mr. roberts, lyons den dinema 
8:00 --movie, reefer madness, eng. auditorium 
8:30 p.m.--concert, duck soup with scum of the earth. 
Iafortune ba IIroom 8:30-12:30 p.m.--party, south bend armory 
1:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.--movies, sponsored by students for mcgovern, Iafortune ballroom 
sat. 
1:00 p.m.--football, nd vs. navy, wndu (16) 7:00, 9:00, 11:00 p.m.--movie, bob&carol&ted&alice, eng. 
auditorium 7:30, 10:00 p.m.--movie, mr. roberts, lyons den cinema 
8:00 
p.m.--play, the best of the second city,o'laughlin auditorium 

8:00 
p.m.--speech, don newman, lib. auditorium 


sun. 
1:00 p.m.--tryouts, the killer, 2288 moreau, smc 
2:00 
p.m.--initiation, knights of columbus 

2:00 
p.m.--opera, le barbier of seville, o'laughlin auditorium 7:00p.m.-notre dame vs. bowling green, ace ice rink 


Campus roundup 



United Way nears $42,000 goal 
The United Way Campaign on the Notre Dame campus is stan­ding in the shadow of its goal, but still a long step from completion. Chairmain Edward J. Murphy, professor of law, said ap­ with the problems that arise in their own families, that they are not aware of, or are unsure how to deal with." "The reason I asked for student volunteers," Stark continues, "is  conditionally opposed to granting amnesty to those who have exiled themselves in order to escape the draft. Republican candidate Newman is confident in Nixon's ability to  membership of the Council represents families, professionals and interested citizens concerned with the welfare of the com­munity's retarded children and adults.  
proximately $40,000 of the $42,000 goal needed to financially assist 30 community agencies has been pledged or forwarded to Joseph F. O'Brian, personnel director at Notre Dame. He added that several hundred pledge cards expected but not received as yet  to aid the discussion by providing distance and anonymity. These problems are of the type · that parents just can't talk about comfortably with their own kids. I know my kids wouldn't feel at ease criticizing something my wife or I did:"  halt inflation. He advocates reducing welfare costs by establishing work programs for those who can work. Frolic at Logan On Friday, November 10, members and friends of the  
could well put the University over  "A similar panel was  held last  Council  for  the  Retarded  of St.  
the top. Faculty, staff and students who have misplaced their pledge cards and wish to contribute to the United Way Campaign may do so at the personnel office or by calling  spring and was so well received that I was urged to plan it again." Those willing to give up an hour of their time, to help the parents of Down's Syndrome children should call Stark at 6222 or leave a note at  Joseph County will hold their second annual Family Fun Frolic at Logan Center, 1235 North Eddy Street. The public is invited to attend the festival scheduled from 5:00 until  
7144. Volunteers sought Swimming Coach Dennis J. Stark is asking for campus volunteers, on behalf of the St. Joseph County Council for the Retarded, to put together a panel for the parents of Down's Syn­drome <mongoloid) children. Coach Stark has asked that any  room 217 in the Rockne Memorial Building. Newman to speak . The Academic Commission will sponser a speech by Indiana Congressional candidate Don Newman in the library auditorium at B p.m. on Sunday, November 5th. The Republican nominee for the Third District is attempting for the second time since 1970 to un­ 10:00 p.m. Dinner will be served from 5:00 until 7:30 p.m. in the Logan Center Cafetorium. Gay holiday decorations, a country store, jewelry and toys are among the many items which will fill the booths in the Logan Center Gymnasium. A special display of hobbies and crafts of the em­ployees of Logan Industries will be featured. Entertainment for the evening  



one at Notre Dame or St. Mary's seat the Demo~ratic incumbent will include children's games and ·CLOTHING that has a Down's Syndrome John Brademas. booths such as a lollipop tree, bean 
•Posters

brother or sister please volunteer Candidate Newman has con­bag toss, tip the cat, cake walk, "to share their experiences." sistenly identified himself with the fish pond, and many other ac­•· S·track Tapes 
"The panel will take place on policies of the Nixon Ad­tivities for childeren and adults. ·CANDLES Tuesday Nov. 7th, and will ministration. The Air Force The Council for the Retarded probably last an hour to an hour veteran strongly supports the operates both the Logan Center ·Jewelry and a half. President's handling of _the Indo­program for mentally retarded ·Cards 
The purpose of this panel China conflict as the only way to an children and Logan Industries at 
•INCENSE

discussion is to help parents deal honorable peace. He in un-1108 North High Street. The 


the largest club on campus•· 
presents 

BOB&CAROL& TED&AUCE 
Sat. Nov. 4 

7:00, 9:00, 11:00 PM 

Sun. Nov. 5 

7:00, 9:00, 11:00 PM; 
Engineering Auditorium Gen. Admission Club Members 
$1.00 .so~ 
The Observer Is published. dally during the college semester ex. cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.. 
•Rugs
:.* •Tapestry 
• Bedspreads
** • PIPES 

·PAPERS
*
* •lites
* 

·NOVELTIES
** ·BOOKS
*· 

·MAGAZINES
I* • Newspapers 
*
*
* 
. OPE"!_ J D_A_YS A WEEK 234-0~88, 




··~·····***····..········ .... 
On The Inside 

WNDU still has problems ..• pageS Co-exchange dining is doomed? ..• page 9 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 41 Friday, November 3, 1972 

The  Midwest-wide  MCAA  art charge, until then. Exhibitions  
conference  will  be  held  in  the include the Feldhaus exhibition  
Fieldhouse  through  Saturday. and the recently-opened  

Fieldhouse galleries. Staff photo by Joe Raymond 
Works of ND, SMC, and other students can be viewed, free of 
Riehle checks OC shuttle 

By Don Ruane Executive Editor 

Dean of Students Fr. James L.Riehle said Thursday that he would explore the feasibility of a shuttle system for and staffed.by off campus residents as an answer to secunty problems. 
In principle, the system would depe~d. on off campus students with cars who are wilhng to shuttle other off campus residents, with s~cial identification to or from the campus, especially at night whe~ the danger of assault is highest. 
Some problems that are involved include finding persons willing to ~ve, developing an identification system, arrangmg schedules, and determining whether or not there should be some sort of reimbursement from those enrolled for gasoline expenses incurred by the driver. 
Cooperating with Police 

In the meantime, the University is cooperating with South Bend authorities to combat the security problem, which has result~ in several muggings, strong arm robberies, a~d a lacerated throat. According to Fr. Riehle, Security Director Arthur Pears has met with the South Bend police chief to discuss various ap­proaches. 
Last Wednesday, four teenaged youths were apprehended and turned over to juv~~e authorities after they stopped two men ndmg bicycles and wearing ND jackets on Howard St. The youths had tire irons and radio antennas; and when one youth tried to assault one of the cyclists, the man identified himself as a policeman, and six other patrolmen nearby moved in for the arrest. 
Carelessness Blamed 

Fr. Riehle said that many victims are assaulted because they are careless. For example, taking shortcuts thr?ugh vacan~ lots, or hitchhiking at three or four m the mornmg as did one woman campus resident who claimed she ,was assaulted by the person who picked her 
upCarelessness however is not limited to off campus reside~ts. Last week Badin residents called security after two me~, who w~re described as having shorter barr and lookmg older than students climbed the fire escaJle to the fourth floor and entered the building. 
According to Fr. Riehle, residents heard the 
intruders on the fire escape, but did not call 
security until after they entered the building. 
ACC Incident 
Riehle: Looking into security problem~ for off­campus students. Some good answers would be a shuttle system staffed by off-campus students with cars and cooperation with South Bend police. 
where all entrances but one are locked and an ID card must be shown for entrance. Property Crimes 
There have also been crimes against property. The most recent was the totaling of several golf carts and damage to two fairways and several sandtraps by vandals who took the carts for a joyride. 
Fr. Riehle agreed that the security problem should be considered by the Student Life Council. 

Off Campus representative Jim Runt said earlier this week that he would bring the issue to the council. Both expressed hope that it would not be overshadowed by efforts to find the next womens dorm. 
In the Episcopal Church 
On the campaign trail 


Edward Cox 
hits South Bend, 

boosts Newman 
by Marty Miller Staff Reporter 
"If you're working for Don Newman,, you're worki?g for President Nixon because the President needs him in Congress," decla~ed Edward Finch Cox, son-in-law of President Nixon. Cox appeared as the featured speaker of the rally for Republican Congression~l candidate Donald Newman, yesterday afternoon m the Nixo~ headquarters at 103 Michigan (formerly Wymans). 
Cox spent extra time talking with the young people at the rally before his brief speech. "~oung pe~rle ar.e the backbone of the campaign," said Cox, President Nixon sends 'thanks' to all of you, young and old, who have worked for him and Mr. Newman." 
Cox commented on McGovern, Brademas, and other Democratic candidates "who would pull out of Viet Nam without the guaranteed release of POW's," during the first part of his speech. . 
''Our President is trying to get an honorable peace m Viet Nam," Cox said, citing many of Nixon's achievements during his term, including the fact that he had brought back 5,000 more troops from Viet Nam than he sent. 
Cox also stressed the fact that Nixon needs men like Newman in Congress to back the President's legislation. "The Revenue Sharing Bill was the only bill authored by the President that Congress passed," he noted. Cox listed the benefits received by local legislatures because of this bill, and added, " ...but Congressman Brademas (Newman's opponent) didn't vote for that bill." He cited many of the President's other bills that weren't passed by the "partisan" Congress such as the Welfare Reform Bill, "which was designed to get people off the welfare roll and onto the pay roll," the environmental bill and the Health In­surance Bill. 
In a final comment Cox expressed his delight at the "overwhelming" support for Nixon throughout the country. "Even Democrats are working for the elec­tion of a Republican President." But he warned the people at the rally not to be so over confident that they feel it is not necessary to go to the polls and vote. "We need everyone's vote to really win the election," added Cox. He concluded by endorsing Governor Bowen, Congressional candidate Newman and President Nixon, " .. .1 can't think of a better team to serve South Bend, St. Joseph County and the United States of America!" 
Edward Cox graduated from Princeton in 1968 with an A.B. degree. He received his law degree fromHarvard School of Law where he was a Cadet Commander of Army ROTC. He is prese~tly a first Lieutenant in the US Army Reserves. Whtle at Har­vard Cox worked with a study team that investigated the Federal Trade Commission under the leadership of Ralph Nader. The group came to .b~ kn~wn a.s "Nad~rs Raiders." He was married to Tricia Nixon m a White Ho.use ceremony June 12, 1972. He has worked. wit? the Federal District Attorney for the Southern District of New York. 
Cox was introduced by Congressional hopeful, Donald Newman. Mr. Newman, a well-known South Bend businessman, is running for the House of Representatives in tne third district of Indiana. His opponent is democratic Congressman John Brademas. Newman stated, "I have only spent 19,000 dollars on my campaign (because that's all we have) and the other candidate <Brademas) has spent 70,000 dollars, and yet a poll taken last week shows thatwe're'even Steven.' "Mr. Newman thanked all his supporters. 

While Notre Dame has never had a real security problem in the sense of a.high incidence of robberies, assualts and burglanes; there have 
The ultimate in equality:been isolated incidences. Two years ago an athlete was shot at as he walked across cam­pus, and recently an Athletic and Convoca~on Center employee was confronted by a knife­• wielding man who is thought to have gone to the 



women 1n the priesthood
ACC to use facilities reserved for students and faculty. -. The latter incident may result m a syst~m 
similar to that used in the Rockne Memorial • • • story, pictures on page 4 

the observer Friday, November 3, 1972
4 
Renovations at Christmas 
ND trustees vote $55.000 for halls 
and was the chief topic of government budget requests for 
by Andy Schilling 
discussion at the hall rectors' hall renovations. 
Staff Reporter 
meeting last week. Fr. Jerome Wilson, University 
A Notre Dame Board of Trustees It was announced at the meeting Vice-President for Business M­appropriation of $55,000 for hall that funds would be granted to fairs, explained the procedure for improvements is now available each hall on the basis of hall obtaining an allocation. Hall 


rectors must approve the proposals first. Then they go to Wilson's office. When all requests are in, they will be forwarded to the Maintenance or Purchasing 
Poet Ezra Pound 
dies at age 87, buried in Italy 
<cl 1!172 New York Times 

Home, Nov. 2-Ezra Pound, the American expatriate poet, will be buried tomorrow on the island of San Michele in the Venetian lagoon, reports here said today. 
Pound, who came to Italy in 1958 after his release from a 
The shape of things to come? Obliging Observer staff members 
Washington D.C. mental hospital,
Kathy Savage (left) and Maria Gallagher (right) demonstrate 
had Jived in Venice since 1958. He 
what may lie ahead if the Episcopal bishops' proposal is passed by 
died in Venice last night at the age 
the Episcopal General Conference next year. Staff photo by Jim Hunt 
of 87 from an intestinal ob­struction. Reports said his body would be taken tonight to a Benedictine

'Father' a feznale? 
monastery on the island of San Giorgio across the Grand Canal where a funeral service scheduled 

Bishops give nod 
for tomorrow will be conducted by Benedictine monks. 
by William Willoughby Igor Stravinsky, the Russian <CI 1972 Washington Star-News composer, and Sergei Diaghilev, founder of the Russian Ballet
Nt>w Orleans, Nov. 2--The Episcopal House of Company, are also buried in theBishops has endorsed the principle of ordaining women San Michele cemetery, whereto the priesthood and permitting them to be con­Pound's remains will be interred insecrated to the Episcopate of the church. 
a section reserved for Protestants, The vote yesterday was 74 to 61 with 5 abstentions. 
the religion of his birth.

The bishops thus set the stage for a showdown on the The poet's daughter, Mary, whocontroversial issue when the 3.5 million-member lives near Bolzano in northerndenomination holds its general convention in Louisville Italy with her husband, Princein October. 
Boris Rachewilz, arrived in VeniceApproval of both houses of the denomination is this afternoon and went to therequired for the change to take effect. 
Civilian Hospital where herThe House of Bishops and the House of Deputies, father's body lay in a sn.all
which represents the laity, will meet separately in mortuary.
Louisville to decide. 
The American hierarchy became the first major branch of the Anglican community, which numbers 47 million adherents around the world, to register an affirmative vote on the issues. 
Last year the bishop of Hong Kong ordained two 
women, but there is considerable opinion in the Anglican communities that his action went beyond the canons of the church. 
The American church paved the way for yesterday's step in 1970, when the general convention in Houston voted to make deacons of those who had been ordained deaconesses in the church, with all the rights of male deacons. Women still were not permitted to advance to the second order of the Anglican ministry, the 


Knights of

priesthood. The bishop of the diocese of Washington the Rt. Rev. William F. Creighton, and Washington suffragan 

Columbus 

bishop John Walker joined the affirmative votes, as did 
NOTRE DAME

the coadjutor and suffragan bishops of the diocese of Virginia. The diocese of Maryland did not cast its COUNCIL NO. 1477 votes. 
A presentation by Bishop Walker was one of the pivotal points in the two-hour debate. The Washington Friday and Saturday suffragan said that many of the arguments advanced from the scriptures against oridination of women are similar to those raised by persons who resisted full November 3 and 4 civil rights for blacks. 
There are fears among Episcopalians that if Showings at: oridination for women is passed it might prove to be schismatic. Bishop Stanley Atkins of the diocese of 6:45, 8:30, Eau Claire, Wis., for example, told the bishops, "I cannot and will not walk down this road." There also 10: 15 pmwere fears that this break from anglo-Catholic tradition could jeopardize ecumenical relations with 
and MIDNIGHT
Catholics. 
Jim class of '63 Chuck class of '65 proprietors 
Premium Beer-$1.75 8-pack ICE COLD Boone's Farm -$1.03 BEER · LIQUORS · WINES · PARTY SUPPLIES · ICE Case Discounts -Liquor & Wine 

... . .
..'-. --.-· ...... 
•' -......~' ..... .. .... .. .... ... tlf ....... ' .... \.' •• ~. "'4. ,. •. •• • . .. . •.•.•.. 


Departments for cost estimates. 
"If the estimate is reasonable, 
we'll approve it and try and get the 
work done, hopefully in the first 
semester or during Christmas 
vacation," stated Wilson. 
Wilson added that all halls have not yet submitted budget requests. Some of the proposals were ac­tually maintenance problems, he said and will have to be taken from the hall maintenance funds, rather than from the special ap­propriation. 
Requests range from color TV's to the refurbishing of Stanford­Keenan's lobby. 
Fr. James Flannigan of the Student Affairs Office also an­
GEOBGEC.. 
nounced that the residence halls on 
SCOTT
campus will remain open over the Thanksgiving holiday; the dorms 
STACY
will close on December 23 for the Christmas Vacation, and will 
KU.CB 
reopen on January 12. 
AROBERT CHARTOFF­IRWIN WINKLER PRODUCTION
The rectors reached no decision 
at this meeting concerning the next 
TBENEW
coed residence hall on campus, since the committee designated to 
CENTURIONS 

r.om.,.,_t>v JOSEPHWAMBAUGH report. 
investigate it had nothing to 
'AIIA'I1SIOH" 


DON'T FORGET "University Night" at Goldblatt's Town & Country and Goldblatt's Home Center 
SAT., NOV. 4TH, 6 to 9 pm 
You May Win a Portable Color T.V. or a Ms' Fur-trimmed Coat! 
AND You Get a 10% DISCOUNT Off Our Regular Ticket Prices ••• 
No Exceptions I Nothing Will Be Held Back! 
your invitation, clip out this an­nouncement and present at the door for your admittance. 
ND will not take part in nationwide Bengali feast 
Notre Dame Food Services will not participate in the National "Feast" for Bangladesh on November 15, according to Edmund Price, director of ND food services. 
The "feast" is a special Bengali meal to remind people of the Bengali situation and raise funds for relief. 1 
"It is a little bit against the policy we have had here in the past," says Price."There is no end to charity and we shouldn't use student or university funds for charitable things," Price explained. 
Paul Fairbrook, director of housing and food services at University of the Pacific, spearheads the effort to increase awareness of the Bengali situation. A letter from Karen Welz, editor of the Pacifican, U. of P's student paper alerted the Ob­st>rver to the program. 
"On November 15 there will be a National ' Feast 'for Bangladesh. On that day, campuses all over the United States will be serving a special 
Nixon victory 
Bengali meal, with contributions being solicited," wrote Welz in that letter. 
Price claims that the University's food service policy and charitable efforts of this nature do not mix. He suggests that students do it on an individual basis. 
"I've gone through this and done a little soul searching about it. It is bad business to get mixed up with any kind of charity or emotion." says Price, who is a personal friend of Fairbrook. 
According to Welz's letter the feast is sponsored by the Associated Student's of the University of the Pacific, the National Association of College and University Food Services Directors, and Concern for Bangladesh, a non-profit relief agency. 
The "feast" is an outgrowth of Fairbrook's visit to Bangladesh last spring. He is attempting to establish low-cost restaurant services in Bangladesh and educate the Bengali to the basic concepts of nutrition and sanitation. Money solicited at the "feast" will go for this purpose. 
Callner predicts'landslide' 
by Kevin Clancy will be casting an absentee ballot Staff Reporter to make sure it is mailed in time. Although all major polls still Callner went on to say that the show Richard Nixon holding a current peace agreement being 
commanding lead over his Democratic opponent George McGovern, the local campaign headquarters for the President, both here on campus and in South Bend, show no signs of taking things easy down the homestretch. 
The approach to the remaining , days apparently will be that nothing is to be taken for granted regarding the election, and so a strong effort will be made to insure the President's election, mainly centering around getting Nixon supporters out to vote. 
Commenting on the important work still to be done, Bruce Callner. YVP Chairman for ND­SMC, said, 
"I fully expect a nationwide landslide for Nixon, but I am a little concerned about the coHege voter turnout. We must make sure that every student who supports the President does in fact express his view by means of a ballot. If we can succeed in getting them out to vote, then Nixon will win easily." 
He predicted that St. Joseph's County, where Nixon lost badly to Humphrey in '68, will go for the President, despite its heavy Democratic concentrations. 
Members of the YVP will climax their months of work on Election Day, November 7th, when volunteers will spend the day telephoning voters so as to maximize the turnout for Nixon. Particular attention will be focused on those young voters who negotiated by the U.S. and North Vietnam should not effect the election returns. He felt that for every person who would vote for Nixon because of it, there would probably be another who thought it was simply a political trick and thus would vote for McGovern. 
Callner totally discounted the possiblility of political overtones to the timing behind the peace talks. Claiming that Mr. Nixon's over-all handling of the Vietnam War has been very impressive, he went on to say, 
"I'm very encouraged that he's pressing for a meaningful set­tlement rather than a settlement before November 7th." 
He saw the recent peace initiative as stemming from North Vietnam, who would like to get the best deal possible before the President is given another 4 years by the American public. 
He noted that the day before Hanoi's announcement came out, the White House had officially disclaimed any kind of ac­complishment or settlement. 
Andy Nickle, Chairman of St. Joseph County YVP, also warned against possible over-confidence on the part of the President's followers, and refused to slow down the campaign because of the polls. Mike Callner, he foresaw a Nixon victory in St. Joseph County, emphasizing that the President has earned re-election on the basis of his record in the White House. 
NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
Announces Tryouts for Eugene lonesco's 
THE KILLER 
Sunday, November 5 at 1:00 p.m. 
Monday, November 6 at 7:00p.m. 
Room 228, Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's 
Open to all ND·SMC students Audition materials available in Speech and Drama Office Room 110, Moreau Hall, Saint Mary's 
SKI THE WEST THIS CHRISTMAS 
Utah 
Jan 2-5 
3 days all lifts 
3 nights lodging 
choice of Alta or Snowbird-$60.00 
Aspen, Colorado 
Jan. 6-13 7 nights lodging 6 days lifts $103.00-$25.00 deposit by Nov. 15. 
for details contact: 
Doug Siddoway-234-7245 
Fr. Mertensotto 6575 
He considers the local precinct organization very strong. The fact that St. Joe's is a Democratic stronghold is all the more evidence of Nixon's popularity, he added. 
Regarding the Observer's recent endorsement of Senator McGovern, Callner simply said he was not surprised by it. He ex­pressed the belief that if more serious consideration of the issues had been given, if they had looked a little closer at the dangerous ramifications of the Senator's proposals, then the paper would have come out in support of President Nixon. McGovern's sincerity was unquestionable, he added, but his foolish policies and his lack of leadership ability make Nixon the clear choice, since he offers both a commendable past record and a very promising future. 
Commenting on the entire campaign, Callner said he felt very pleased by the fact that by and large the young voters have not been fooled by the "McGovern myth" of romanticism, pie-in-the­sky promises which lack sub­stance. Rather, he said, they have looked at the Nixon years in the White House and have been im­pressed, thereby rejecting the naivete of McGovern, as reflected in current polls. 
Price: Student and University funds should not be used for charitable things, though students are urged to participate in the national Bangladesh "Feast" on individual bases. 
~ 
• 

IRIRB 
TRBIT 
Or medium or well done. Just the way you like it. Rib-Eye, Chopped Sir­loin, Western or T-Bone. Easy eating at easy prices. Get rarin' to go! 
PONDEROSA 
STEAK HOUSE 
52627 U.S. 31 N. 
and ·· Town & Country 
Shopping Ctr. 
~pen 11 A. M. to 9 P.M. Dail~ ~ Fri. and Sat. to 10 P.M. ~ 
So-uth Bend's Newest 110¥2 N. Main 
THE RED DOOR CLUB 
BEER * WINE * LIQUOR Stop In/ 
z 

Memberships Available 
~ 
ANB :;· 
OPEN 1 1 am to 3om 
C. 0. U. P. QUESTIONAIRES-
Must be turned in by 7 pm -TONIGHT 
Boxes for this purpose ere in lobby 

Try our luncheon special 99' · Mon thru Fri for small pizza with one ingredient 11:00 am -2:_00 pm 
PIZZA HUT No. 1
Good only at 

2307 E. Edison Rd. South Bend 
EAT IN OR CARRY OUT SERVICE 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Dan Thornton Business Manager

NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler 
Advertising Manager 
Friday, November 3, 1972 
fram l:he edil:ar's desk: 
A birthday party 

Last night we had a party in The Ob· server office. Not much, after all there aren't many things that a six-year-old can do at a birthday party. One staff member astutely observed, however, that next year-on the seventh birthday­the paper reaches the age of reason. C'est la vie. 
For the record we thought we'd skim our file of back issues and pull out the biggest story of each year of the Ob­server's six years. 
-Vol. I No.1: A new newspaper is born on November 3, 1966. The Observer only went to press 11 times in the 1966-67 school year. Today's front page is a flashback to a simpler time for jour· nalism. Few papers, especially college papers, could get away with the outrageous line that captions the page one collage. -Vol. II No. 19: In a year with many interesting stories (Scholastic editor busted; The famous Fr. Kavanaugh leaves the priesthood; Richard Rossie is elected SBP) the only neutral way to judge the top story may well be by the size of the largest headline. A two and a half inch high head proclaiming "We're No. 1" graced the front page of the bir· thday edition. The editors called the paper "one of the most shocking jour· nalistic efforts in Notre Dame history." Notre Dame was not available for comment. -Vol. Ill No. 83: The famous 15 minute rule is the first really substantive "story of the year." "University President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC, stated yesterday that students faculty and others who involve themselves in protest activities which disrupt normal University operations or infringe upon the rights of others will face immediate suspension, expulsion and action by civil authorities," quoth the unbylined lead. 
·-Vol. IV No. 122: "Krashna: Strike Now." Edging into modern history, The Observer reported as Notre Dame's first black SBP lead Notre Dame's first (and as yet unrepeated) massive strike. This time Fr. Hesburgh spoke as a sym­pathizer when he read a statement calling for withdrawal from Vietnam at the earliest possible date. -Vol. V No. 97: 1971 was the first year in which the editors left behind an analysis of the year's top stories. They picked the official announcement that the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College would begin formal merger negotiations. It was the begin­ning of a continuing story that would creep up again in the next year's leads. -Vol. VI No. 88: After a year of brutal charges and countercharges the unification died its final death on February 29, 1972. Few people think that this edition is the last in which mention of a possible merger will appear. One thing is certain, however, and it is that the events of Vol. VI are much too recent to fall into the category of history-except in the operational sense. 
Birthdays are a time for stepping back and taking a more global per­spective on the years that have passed. There aren't more than a handful of students still on campus who remember the early days of The Observer. What is often blotted out in starry eyed nostalgia about those days is the difference bet­ween establishing a need and fulfilling the need once it has been established. 
Today few people doubt what only six years ago had to be proven every step of the way--the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's community needs a daily newspaper. But what could be forgiven of a two-year­old, even a very bright one, is usually unthinkable for a six-year-old. Such is life in the world of tunnel vision. 
John Abowd 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Letter... 
~ 
Editor: All Big Brothers from St. Joseph 
I would like to thank the Student County are extremely grateful to Body and B.J. Bingle for allowing the support given to our program over 50 of our Little Brothers to by Father Hesburgh, Prof. James attend the recent Notre Dame­Daschbach (one of our founders), Missouri Football Game. While the Paul Gosselin and Mike Regan and weather and outcome could have the over 50 active Notre Dame Big been better, the boys and I could Brothers. not have been happier with the Thanks again for your generous hospitality and generosity of those invitation. Notre Dame students who un­selfishly donated their tickets and their time so some children from Sincerely, South Bend could enjoy this Cappy Gagnon '66 wonderful opportunity. Big Brothers 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii.IIIHIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIl 


Ms. r:~ivinr:ts The new SMC student center 
maria t;~allafiher 
Saint Mary's finally has a student center. But only time will tell its success or failure, its limitations or advantages. A great deal of time, effort, and planning has gone into the project (not to mention money), but will the students really use the facilities? There was a sizeable crowd at the opening party Halloween night, with people from both sides of the road milling about in costumes that ranged from the in­ventive to the outrageous. Wednesday and Thursday nights, however, saw a quiet and fairly empty building. Perhaps the weekend will prove different. It would be a shame to see Regina go the way of Notre Dame's dormant LaFortune. 
Learn from Mistakes 
Saint Mary's can take a lesson or two from LaFortune and its at­tendant merits and demerits. 
What should a student center offer? LaFortune houses the Huddle, campus press, student publications, student government, cabinet and commission offices, an auditorium, a t.v. lounge, a piano (that hasn't worked for years), pool tables, lots of usable space, and a little-used Rathskellar. It's open till midnight. 
Regina, on the other hand, has no equivalent to the Huddle, but four kitchens, private dinettes, and food machines. A snack shop is planned but I wonder if it's necessary-the one under the dining hall has excellent facilities and is centrally located. Two are unnecessary. 
The student government and cabinet offices have moved to first floor north, along withMcGovern headquarters, campus ministry, and the Blue Mantle, giving a good centralized area of student concerns. There is still more space available to private groups or clubs who would like to establish themselves there. 
Regina has three televisions, one in each of the first floor lobbies and one in the north basement, none of which work too well.An answer might be just one good color television like the one in LaFortune, or <God willing) maybe even three new ones. Another suggestion would be the addition of a special antenna for better Chicago reception. 
Spatial advantages 
Space is parcelled out in all sizes and adapted to a variety of pur­poses. Partitions have been installed in the south first floor to take away the "publicness" of the lobby and offer several carrels for en­tertaining or study. North first floor lobby has been purposely left large and spacious to allow for dances such as the one held two weeks ago. There are large game rooms and small game rooms; a card room; a billiard room; a ping-pong room; two pianos (one that works and one that doesn't>; an auditorium; a large study lounge and several classrooms, which are ideally suited to club meetings. 
And for the jocks ... 
SMC has no Athletic and Convocation center and so many of the functions which the ACC fills for the Notre Dame student must be contained in Regina. The outdoor tennis and basketball courts have already been here for some time, but now a new addition is an exercise room in the south wing. Indoor golf and a roller skating rink are planned. Some of the more idealistic student government people have mentioned the possibility of an indoor pool, but this will probably not be in Regina. 
Forget about that freshman year French class 
The student center should establish itself in students' minds from the very beginning as synonymous with good times and service, rather than the infamous language courses which are also taught there. Folk concerts, movies, dances, seminars, and liturgy (Regina has a chapel) are only a few of the possibilities. A farsighted move on the part of those overseeing the student center would be to try and have its facilities incorporated in the 24-hour open lobby proposal. At present, only the south lobby is open past midnight from Sunday through Thursday, and until2:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturday. This is rather limited, considering that most of the game rooms are in the basement. The clamor to keep LaFortune at Notre Dame open around the clock tends to underline the need. 
Drawbacks 
There are, however, inherent drawbacks which may limit Regina from being all that it could be. For example, unlike La Fortune, Regina also serves as a dormitory, and provision must be made for the security of the residents if the building is to be open to greater num­bers of people on a much larger scale. The fact that it has areas restricted solely to women could be viewed as discrimination. And, the fact that Saint Mary's students in general spend most of the leisure time either in their own residence halls or at Notre Dame could be the decisive factor that makes or breaks the success of Regina as a real 
student center. 

~ daanesbury
, 
~ P/SCU5S IT.?.1 r WHifT!s ro PISCUS5? THE r l/.5. IS 80HBtN6 NORTI/ r 'NAM TO CONTIM1/ r 
COHHIJNIST 
r I ,q66Re5SicN. ITS r rH~r SIMP/.£. 
t;~arry trudeau 
~------------------~ 

wr mtYk£ Nor oo1!tl6 1r of!/PIIRPOS&l 
I 
the observer 

Night Editor: Joe Abell Ass't Nigl1_t Editor: Maria Gallagher Layout: Mike Baum, Marlene Zloza, Bill Brink Day Editor: Bill Sohn Typists: Steve Roper, Dave Rust, Dennis Anastasoff. Tom Modglin, Phil Orshelm Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips Night Controller: Robert S. Barringer 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the 
opinion of the individua I writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 


~J 
_F_r_id_a~y,__N_ov_e_m_b_e_r_J~,_19_7_2________th~e~o~b~s~e~r~v~e~r________:7 
Letters Ta A Lanely Ciad 
the wounded healer 
'{be morning mail was not really all that comforting: a picture of me, unkempt and umcombed, as the apostle of Times Square, the central picture of my book, sent me by the book's publisher; and a letterfrom the home office reminding me of obligations too long neglected, and of commitments freely made, but riot kept. How, I wondered, in the face of the truth and those who know it, can I avoid feeling like a hypocrite? The tension between private practice and public image is a little crucifixion in itself. Later in the morning, I had an interview with a prostitute: a young girl on drugs whom friends sent with the hope of my helping her to rehabilitation. The girl, by reason of her profession, is classified as a public sinner. I, of course, am the priest who is playing the Christ -role in receiving her with mercy. By the end of our conversation, I would gladly have exchanged my kind of failure for her kind of innocence. In an interview between a priest and a prostitute, .it need not be presumed that the first stone is cast by the priest. If stones had been used this mor­ning, the priest would have been the first to 
bite the dust. 
What this campus minister needs, you see, is another campus minister. Instead of writing letters to a lonely God, he needs to find mail, postmarked heaven, from a Trinity who says, "We are never happier." What he really needs is to give up his cluttered, dim-lighted place and go to bed at night, or else he should visit somebody else's dim-lighted place and make his confession. The minister as wounded is not of much help to anybody. 
Maybe the distance between the minister and his therapy is the thing kids feel today as the obstacle that keeps them from being interested in joining the ranks of clergy. All the professional careers --lawyers, engineers, teachers-are overcrowded, with the possible exception of medicine, and the competition to get into med school is fierce beyond belief. Yet the seminaries are either closed or only half-filled. Five priests leave the ministry through death, retirement, or the exercise of other options, for every two priests being ordained. Banker-types are 
second city 
by Mike Kulczycki 
The Dance and Drama Series of the Cultural Arts Commission is presenting the Second City Players at 8 JP.m. Saturday, November 4, at O'Laughlin Auditorium. Most "Second City" ilrea residents may recognize them as Chicago's satirical humor troupe, but for all the strangers out there, this article is an invitation to you to attend Satruday evening's production to see the best of the "Second City". They will be performing excerpts from their last three revues "No No Wilmette" "The 43rd 
Parallel" ' and their cu~rent piece "Premises, Premises". The Second City tradition began in the 
1950's around a Chicagoan Paul Sills who organized Ltte Compass Players into one of the first professional improvisational
theatres in the country. Mike Nichols,
Elaine May, and Shelley Berman have come from among this first group of irreverant satirists. Forced out of the Hyde Park area by urban renewal in 1959, they found roots in the Old Town-Wells Street area of Chicago's North Side. They took their present name from the title of a derisive profile of Chicago by the late A.KJ. Liebling in the New Yorker magazine, and opened to almost instant success and national attention that has continued to this day. Soon, the "Second City" became a 'must' stop for younger professionals of the acting world, somewhat indicated by their list of "alumni" such as Barbara Harris, .Alan Arkin, Avery Schreiber, Joanie Rivers, David Steinberg, Peter Boyle. . . 
Following the success of tltleir night club activity, Second City has made appearances in London, Toronto, and New York and formed the Second City Touring Company to bring their improvisational theatre to cities outside of the Chicago area. There is even a school and workshop which trains young actors in the kind of discipline involved in Second City's presentations. 
The improvisation of Second City is based on ideas suggested by Bernard Sahlins, the artistic director, its audiences, or the performers themselves, but it is developed in rehearsal similar to the legitimate play. So the sketches, using no sets and very few hand props, are well-rehearsed with oc-
STUDENTS FOR McGOVERN 
PRESENT 
{An All Night) 
MONSTER MOVIE 
EXTRAVAGANZA 
Fri., Nov. 3 
Jam-6 am 
2ND FLOOR LAFORTUNE BALLROOM; 

casional sidelights inspired by the audience reactions. Often an entire sketch at a performance is a takeoff on an idea suggested by the audience, an excellent way to show the development of any sketch. The subjects of the pieces are usually pointed a the hang-ups of the middle-class white liberal, but the humor is not reserved for one group alone. For example, the best number from "Premises, Premises" is a true selling of the "Women's Lib" point of 
beaumarchais' play 
The Departments of Modern and Classical 
Languages at Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, will host a production in French of Beaumarchais' "Le Barbier De Seville" per­formed by Le Treteau de Paris on Sunday, November 5, 1972, at 2:00 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The French government created and subsidises Le Treteau de Paris so as to afford American students of the French language the opportunity to view French theatre spoken in French. 
Thefirst tour of the United States by a French professional theatre com­pany, since Sarah Bernhardt in 1891, was in 1958 when a production of Racine's classic "Britannicus". gave thirteen performances to eleven colleges and universities across the country, and met with full houses everywhere. In 1960, a modern-dress production of Moliere's "Le Misan­thrope" played on twenty­one campuses with twenty-three performances. At this 
rev. rabert ':Jriffin 
being hired as part-time employees, to help with the Sunday communions. Banker­types are just stuffy enough to join the stuffy ranks of the clergy in the service of the stuffy Christ whom an overstuffed Church is currently featuring. Nowhere better than in my own ministry do I see the distance between the priest as he sadly is, and the ideal as exemplified in the life of Jesus. 
Where in the pale Galilean that presides, through the priest, as the central lover of our contemporary liturgies, is Christ revealed as the Lord of History? Christ slept in the place of worms to earn life for us. Nails in his hands and feet could not defeat His energies ; and as a figure covered with pain and blood, He taught us what it means for a ,beloved Son to call God his Father. He spoke the idiom of heaven with such authority that the sea and wind and thunder, and even death itself, were cowarns to His word. With no less authority, he spoke to us of the conditions of eternal life: it is the compassionate who will be called blessed by the DFather; it is the pure in heart who will see God. 
ranks first 
view-usually taken only kiddingly-but here they say something inkeeping with its real feeling. 
Second City Players provide excellent satire in challenging its audience to look at themselves, and then to laugh at what is seen, but only in the sense of laughing with you. They make you laugh to prove their point: you are not fully human unless you can stop, look, and most importantly laugh at yourself. 
There are priests--many of them-who bear the marks of the courage, grace, and authority of Christ in. their own persons. Where sons and Father meet if needed for witness, they would be acquainted as vic­tims to the hanging places, without fear, they can expel demons, and death is beaten back from life by the fierceness of their preaching. There are priests who are honest-to God sons of God, but I do not feel like one of them, not tonight. I who have written critically of others must now bear wi_tness against myself. I know of my failures because I read about them in the morning mail. I know of my distance from Christ because I saw innocence in a prostitute's face, and she made no pretence of belonging to heaven. 
The healer as wounded needs your prayers. 
The Church as wounded through all the wounded healers needs your service. All young girls with innocence in their faces need your love. 
Even as a wounded minister I can speak with the authority of Christ on that point. 
This Saturday, at 8 p.m. in O'Laughlin Auditorium, give yourself a chance to be proven why Second City Players "try harder" and perform in a style which surpasses their numerical title. Remem­ber, patron card holders must present their patron cards at a ticket outlet or at the box office on Saturday evening to obtain the ticket for this performance. For further ticket information, please call the Cultural Arts Commission office at 283-3797. 
barbier de seville -sunday 
point, requests were six performances per week 
unanimous that the on its American tours. university tour become an For French students, annual affair. By the Spring French dramatic literature of 1965 there was such a with its rhythms, pauses, great demand that two stresses, and visual nuances separate tours were con­takes on greater life by
ducted. The Treteau de means of performance.Paris books on an average of Third and even second year French high school students attend the performances With ease and compromise 40 to 50 percent of the student attendance. 

Drama students will find a new demonstration of techniques and tastes, quite foreign to the American stage. They are encouraged to watch the technical crew setting up to learn about the French stage construction and lighting techniques. They are also welcomed backstage after the per­formance by the cast. 
The French Embassy in New York has received written testimony from leading American campuses commending the cultural experience Le Treteau de Paris productions afford students and members of the community. The venture 
has been called "one of the most encouraging en­terprises undertaken in the field of Franco­American cultural relations.". 
Tickets are now available at $2.25 for students and $3.50 for non-students. 

"The Pause that Refreshes" 
How about a Weekend away from it all? A Retreat Weekend of Prayer, Discussion, Relaxation, Silence. Conducted by the Atonement (Franciscan) Friars Nov. 10 (Fri. nite) to Nov. 12 (Sun. afternoon) 
231.. South Bend Ave Downtown South Bend. Phone 272-9171 

Call: (283) 1371 or 8814 or 272-9103
Adm. 
1 hr. from Notre Dame on lake Michigan
gNE,mc. 
-Transportation Provided 
~ 
-


the observer Friday, November 3, 1972
8 





achieved recognition of their union~:i:za:ti;'o:n:.:b~y-----~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;S;;;a;;;;;;;tu;;;r;;;d;;;a;;;y~.~~;;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~::~ 
union invites you to spend an evening with 
YES 
WNDU engineers reported Wednesday that no concrete progress was made in Tuesday's meeting between their party and station management concerning a new contract and the unionization of station engineers. 
As the October 30 Observer article "WNDU Engineers Face Stalemate" analysed, little progress has been made in the half-year period since the National Labor Relations Board approved on April 24 calls from WNDU l'ngineers to ct&lare negotiations. 
The problem isn't dissapearing, though. The threat of a walkout exists among the five of WNDU's six full-time audio-visual-recording technicians who are agitating for acceptance of their eontract. As yet, station management mgineer Don Manning reports, has "not ac­cepted any section of our contract verbatim." 
But Vlanning, who has been at WNDU for 16 years, said that there is no protest of revenge implied in any plans for a walkout. 
"We don't want to do it," explained Manning. "It's always bad to walk out on a first con­tract." 
As Manning described it, any plans for a walkout are only a coming-to-terms with the reality that if the new contract's clause which limits station "supervisors" strictly to supervising and training is not passed, then the present engineers will be slowly replaced. This is what he meant when he told the Observer that "Our job is in jeopardy unless we have (ourl contract." 
This is a crucial point in the engineers' drive for the new agreement. Under present policy and contractual terms, men hired by the station to supervise are allowed to have run of the engineers' controls, taking their places under executive command. 
Manning's new contract would limit supervisors to supervision, familiarizing themselves with the equipment and training, and would allow them to act in an engineering capacity only in times of emergency. 
"It's a question of job security," said Man­ning. "Either this thing (supervisor clause) gets passed, or we face the prospect of being gradually let go by the station." 
Engineers are also asking for workers' rights, or actually a stated delineation of obligations and reponsibilities among station personnel. Supervisors interference is one of their problems. Another is that of directors. 
"We've had trouble with this kind of thing for years," said Bob Boyd, with WNDU since December of 1955. 
Manning agreed. "They said 'you go be a technical engineer,' " he said, "and then they tell you how to do it. We want control of audio quality, visual quality and recording quality. Engineers should do the engineering." 
"An engineer is selling his talents," said Boyd. "They think they're giving us a job. We sell our talents just as much as any baseball or football player." 
"We don't want any ghosts behind us" when engineers set to work on their videotaping and equipment operation, said Manning. "Some afternoons they bring in people from somewhere else to run the projectors. I wouldn't go in and draw on an artist's board. I don't know anything about the artist's job and he doesn't know anything about engineering." 
"We'll work along with them," said Boyd and 
Manning, "but we don't want them replacing 
us." 
Another big concern to the five negotiating engineers is the length of the workday. At present, within the 18-hour-a-day operation of WNDU, each engineer works a standard ten hours after th with overtime following hours after the required ten. 
WNDU's engineers would like to see over­ti~e begin after eight hours. "The ten hour work day has been in force for several years (at WNDU>, said Boyd. "Now the I.B.E.W. <In­ternational Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, whose local post no. 153 is supporting the engineers) is trying to get away from that idea and back to the basic eight-hour day." 
Yet another contract clause calls for ad­vantages for senior (or ranking) engineers to receive certain privileges --for one, the guarantee that a newly-hired technician will not be paid more than one who has been with the station several years. 
There are other points and counterpoints being tossed between management, mainly in the person of Michiana Telecasting executive vice president and general manager Tom Hamilton <Michiana Telecasting is the parent company of WNDU> and the engineering party, and some concessions have been made. One is that manager Hamilton has promised to begin posting five-week on-duty schedules, eliminating the previous situation in which engineers were required to be available at all "reasonable" times for extra work should the station request it. 
But that promise came orally and not as the result of the acceptance of a clause in the new contract which would eliminate the engineer's responsibility to be available. Still, they aren't too pessimistic. "There's definitely been a change of attitude (on the part of the management>," said Boyd. "Before, all they'd say was no, no, no. Now, at least, they're willing to concede that we •might be right on some points." 
Although that's a meager score for six months of negotiations, Manning is somewhat pleased with the progress reflected in attitude and Hamilton's announcement concerning the scheduling. 
"The company's beginning to bend," said Manning. 
However, the outlook is for a protracted battle. "They <the management) are dragging this thing out," said Manning. "I don't really know why. I guess it's because they want to show us that they aren't going to give in to any little demand we happen to feel like making." He hopes for but doesn't expect a settlement before Christmas. 
Much of the trouble lies in the fact that, should the contract be accepted, the engineers would then be unionized. "I don't see why they should get so upset,'' said Boyd. "Why, 
our television and radion announcers" 
the management "without much fuss." 
Boyd believes that experience has proven unions to be advantageous to the running of business, mainly because unions demand laborers well as executives to hold to their agreements and perform their obligated tasks. 
"Harmonious relations can be maintained between union and employer, labor and management,' "quotedManning from the new contract's preliminary clauses. He added, "If we work together, <the result) will be ap­preciated by the public." _ 
In other words, said Manning, "The quality of our broadcasting is bound to pick up." 
"We're not zombies," said Boyd, in a general defense of demands for workers rights and recognition of membership in the union. "We all have families and live lives just like the management." 
Meetings between labor and management have been held at LaFortune Student Center, the union offices, and the last in South Bend's Randall's Inn. Number nine is scheduled for this Monday at Randall's Inn. 
Surprisingly, both Manning and Boyd owed that what success had been had with station management was due in some measure to the Observer article cited above. 
The publicity "forced management to quit dragging this thing out," said Manning. "And we're glad the story was told anyway. We're proud of what we're doing for the station and we're happy that others know about it." 
REDT-A~rAR 
Charter Rentals Mr. Honda 50715 U.S. 31 N. 272-4484 
Marv Borr Toyota 18185 St. Rd. 23 


MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15 p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30 a.m. Sun. Fr. Carl Ebey, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Donald Martin, S.J. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
''Evening Prayer'' vespers at 4:30p.m. Sunday. Confessions are heard before eac.h weekday mass and from 7:00 to 7:30p.m. Monday through 
plus special guest-LINDISFARNE(from England)
A ALUMNI CLUB...n. 
NOVEMBER 18 --8:30 p.m.
• HAPPY HOURl+J 
TICKETS: $5.50, 4.50. 2.75
Get It On FridayAfternoon 4:00-5:00 15~ BEERS 
available at the ACC ticket 
OPEN FRI--(4:00 -2:00am) 
office (9-5) and the Student Get Together Saturday Nit. Union ticket office (11 :30 -l :00, 3:30-5:00 daily) 
at the Club 
·y
(Open 7:00 pm -2:00 am) 


Friday, November 3, 1972 the observer
I 9 
Co-exchange meals may be halted 



The student exchange ticket situation is in peril of becoming 
nonexistant, due to a lack of St. Mary's students using cards like 
this at Notre Dame dining halls. 
WNDU znanageznent foresees no 'Walkout 
by Mike Baum 
Observer Staff 
Management personnel of WNDU-TV are optimistic that contract negotiations with the stations television engineers can .be completed without the engineers' threatened walkout. 
Contract negotiations between the engineers and station management have been running 
AMAandABA call for reduction 
of pot penalties 
<Reprinted from The Leaflet, the publication of the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws, vol. 1 no. 6. > 
Both the American Medical Association and the American Bar Association have recently adopted resolutions calling for a reduction in pot penalties. While both groups balked at resolutions which totally embraced decriminalization, which had earlier been adopted by their respective expert com­mittees, they did substantially soften their previous stands on marijuana. 
Reflecting their youthful con­stituency, a marijuana decriminalization resolution was passed by the young lawyers 
(continued on pag·e 10) 
since the middle of April, and· the 
five men involved are con­
siderering a walkout if more 
progress is not made. 
Tom Hamilton, vice-president 
and general manager of the 
station, is optimistic that the 
remaining points of contention in 
the contract negotiations can be 
resolved. "Out of the total list of 
points, both presented by the 
engineers and by the station," 
Hamilton commented, "a good 
percentage, say over half, have 
been agreed upon." 
Station management is 
generally reluctant to comment on 
individual points of the contract. 
"We don't want to do anything 
that's prejudicial to either point of 
view," Hamilton said. 
On one issue, the engineers' request for a clause restricting supervisors from engineers' tasks except in times of emergency (a form of job security), Hamilton commented, "I was not aware that that was a bone of contention." 
The long period of negotiations is not without precedent. According to Hamilton, contract negotiations with the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists <which represents "on-air" per­sonnel) which were successfully concluded two years ago "took quite some time." 
Hamilton is unsure of the effect on the station if the engineers go through with the walkout. "I don't know," he said, "we've never had an experience like that." 
The Neighborhood Centers Presents 
Jerry Butler and His Revue 
with 
Brenda Lee Eager 
Sunday, November 5, 1972 
7:30 pm Rogers High School Aud. 
PAHS ROAD MICHIGAN CITY, INDIANA 
Advance tickets at the NO Student Union 
Adults $4.00 --Students $3.00 Main Floor $5.00 --at Door $4.50 
For Information Call 
872-0351 or 872-1201 
by John Culligan Observer Staff 

According to Jim Clarke, coordinator, the Notre Dame-st. Mary's Co-Exchange Meal Ticket Program is in danger of being cancelled. The reason, as a recent survey indicates, is the lack of St. Mary's students who are willing to eat in the Notre Dame cafeterias. 
The survey was taken from September 18 to October 22 and was compared to a similar survey conducted last year at ap­proximately the same time. The survey studied the percentage of tickets used by each hall every night and the overall total number of tickets used each night. 
The statistics point out a marked decrease in the number of St. Mary's participants over last year. 
The number of tickets being used 
111111111111111111111111111111 m111111111111111111111111111 The following is the schedule of halls that are getting meal tickets this week: 
Nov. 4 Cavanaugh, Sorin 
" 5 St. Ed's, Breen-Philips 
" 6 Morrisey, Holy Cross 
" 7 No Tickets Given Out 
" 8 Flanner, Badin 
" 9 Grace, Walsh 

1-IIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII• 
ND-SMC theatre to cast'The Killer' Nov. 6 and 1 
Tryouts for the ND-SMC production The Killer will be held Sunday, Nov. 6 at 1:00 p.m. and Monday, Nov. 7 at 7:00p.m. in 228 Moreau. 
Tryouts are open to all ND-SMC students. Audition materials are available in the Speech and Drama office, 110 Moreau. 
The Killer, Eugene Ionesco's parable of one man's encounter with evil, will be presented Dec. 8, 9, and 10 in Washington Hall under the direction of Reginald Bain. 
is around 28 percent, whereas last year it was around 70 percent and about equal to the number of ND participants. If the program is to continue, Clarke said, it will depend on the students at St. Mary's. They will have to begin to participate in the program so that a fair ex­change will be possible. 
The survey also showed a slight decrease in the number of ND students who take part in the program. The decrease, 3 percent down from last year's output over the same time period, could be attributed to the fact that two halls did not hand out the tickets on the night assigned to their hall. Otherwise, Clarke felt, the program has been a success here at Notre Dame. The three halls that participated the most were Farley (87 percent of the tickets were given out), Sorin (82 per­cent>, and St. Ed's (78 percent). 
There is one factor, Clarke surmises, that could account for the drop of participation on the part of the St. Mary's students. The factor involved is the fact that many of last year's students transferred to Notre Dame. 
So, according to Clarke, it is up to those students over at St. Mary's to get meal tickets and eat at Notre Dame's cafeterias so that a fair exchange will come about and the program continue. 


GOOD FOOD AT M ST PRICES ·Steaks ·Cho-ps ·Chicken ·Sea Food Quiet atmos here -pleasant surroundings 

CLOSED MONDAYS 
Daily & Sunday 
11 am till 9 pm 
Saturday 
11 am till 10 pm 

A Must for Michiana Winters 
WARM 'N RUGGED 
HOODED 
NYLON JACKET 
It's waterproof, windproof and extra warm thanks to its pure polyester quilt lining, a telescoping hood gives head and face protection. Machine washable in a % length draw string waist, wristees for wind protection heavy duty zipper plus buttons. Two colors. . ' 
NO SERVICE OR 
CARRYING CHARGE 
This is the exclusive feature of 
the Campus Shop Way to Buy. 
Open you account now, pay 
next year. 


ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
• 


the observer Friday, November 3, 1972
10 
Council to head sophomore class 

by Janet Longfellow Staff Reporter 
The Sophomore Class Officers have abandoned the traditional form of class government in favor of a more flexible type of Council. 
Former Vice-President Greg Garrison hopes that the many ideas planned for this ·year will attract enough enthusiasm to be s~ccessfully carried out. In a recent meeting, it was decided that a new structure would provide an atmosphere in which respon­sibilities could be more equally shared. Garrison claims that this, 
Garrison: "If you eliminate class distinction, you eliminate the personality of a group that hall officers are not able to compensate for." 
AMA reverses old :marijuana position 
(continued from page 9) 
section of the A.B.A. The more conservative policy-making House of Delegates endorsed a watered down version stressing the need to "overhaul excessive criminal penalties." 
The A.B.A.'s section on In­dividual Rights and Respon­sibilities had put forth a resolution in favor of abolishing all criminal penalties for simple marijuana possession, directly paralleling the recommendations of the Marijuana Commission. 
However, the A.B.A. voted to adopt a resolution stating "that because the individual and social 
costs resulting from some <>xisting laws punishing personal use or simple possession of marijuana substantially outweigh any benefits derived, federal, state and local laws punishing personal use of simple possession of marijuana should be overhauled and present excessive criminal penalties should be eliminated." To be sure they did not appear too sympathetic to the user, the A.B.A. 
resolution  was  amended  to  add  
that  they  "deplored  the  use  of  
marijuana."  

Likewise, the American ~edical Association, which only three years ago affirmed an earlier position that marijuana was a "dangerous drug" whose legalization would "create a serious abuse problem" softened its stand on the weed considerably. 
Although the House of Delegates rejected the findings of its own 
It's time to get psyched for the game. 
s H u L A 'S 
GOOD AFTERNOON
H H
SHULA'S
-Celebrate early for NO's Win over Navy
u u
Do it with two great bands, 
L A 
s H u L A 'S 

L 
, _i\litc C/u~
• A
2.802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES. MICHIGAN 49120 
Phone 683·4;!511 
Committee on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence, which urged the removal of criminal penalties for personal use, the association en­dorsed the following compromise resolution: 
"This House of Delegates does not condone the production sales or use of marijuana. It does, however, recommend that the personal possession of in­significant amounts of that sub­stance be considered at most a misdemeanor with commensurate penalties applied." 
It also recommends its prohibition for public use; and that a plea of marijuana intoxication should not be a defense in any criminal proceeding." 
However, the delegates left unchanged the wording of its alcoholism and drug abuse com­mittee report that said there is not scientific evidence linking marijuana with physical depen­dence, with criminality and violence-{)r even with the use of harder drugs. 
Although those of us involved in marijuana reform are disap­pointed that both the A.M.A. and 
A.B.A. bodies did not endorse the recommendations of the Mrijuana Commission, it is clear that there are strong currents within both associations that are keenly aware of the relative harmlessness of pot and the legal injustices of jailing those who do smoke. Hopefully by next year's convention, the delegates will have become more educated about marijuana and will take a stronger stand. 
"eliminates the normal breakdown of power, in the hope to make council members easier to get to know and communicate with. So far it has worked out quite well." 
The council also hopes to set up election rules and a Constitution where there are presently none. Garrison sees a definite need for class officers, explaining, "If you eliminate class distinction, you eliminate the personality of a group that hall officers are not able to compensate for." 
Next weekend, November lOth or lith, a sophomore -sponsored Coffee House is tentatively scheduled to open in the 
Rathskeller,  the  basement  of  
LaFortune.  There  will  be  en­ 
tertainment  by  volunteers  

students. With a 50 cent admission charge and free coffee. All the plans are on an experimental basis which, if successful, will be con­tinued on weekend nights by either the Student Union or Sophomore Class, depending upon who responds. Garrison claims, "The Student Center is being wasted, and has many possibilities that should be used."
In addition, the hot-dog stand,...______________.....;;.....;;;..._______..;.. 

operated before the ~issouri game will be set-up again for the Miami game outside the Bookstore from 
10:30 to 1: 15. A substantial profit was made before but much more help is needed to overcome the .sophomore debt and to accumulate 
THE ROMA 

welcomes ND·SMC Students Your Host Frank Anastasio 
Delicious Italian 
Pizza 
Liquor Dancing to the sophisticated 

Jazz-Rock sounds of the Nicks Trio  Bill  
Open until Weekends.  4:00  A.M.  on  

FOR DELIVERIES CALL 234·3258 219 N. MICHIGAN Avenue (next 
to Morris Civic) 
Downtown South Bend. 

IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE GRAND STYLE OF THE IRISH WAKE THE S.U. SOCIAL COMMISSION PRESENTS A TRADITIONAL FRENZIED BRAWL •
1.e. an 

ARMORY PARTY! 
Barrels (or Kegs) of fun for everyone 
2 Bands! Hard Rock Plus SO's Rock 'n Roll 
Everyone is invited to the South Bend Armory 
TONIGHT 8:30 • 12:30 
Tickets ($2.50 per person) on sale at the Student Union Ticket Office and the door tonight. 
BUS LEAVES N.D. CIRCLE AT: 8:00: 8:30: 9:00 SMC AT: 8:05: 8:35: 9:05 ARMORY AT: 11:30: 12:00: 12:30 
some capital to carry out their ideas. Anyone interested in working on the booth should contact Greg Garrison, phone: 7933. 
Future ideas planned by the Sophomore Class for second semester are: a ~ardi~ras booth, a Sophomore variety show, an ice-skating party, and possibly a concert, if enough money is raised. 
BEAUX ARTS BALL 
John Kuhn's--Duck Soup 
9:30pm-2:00am 
Saturday, Nov. 4 
ARCHITECTURE BUILDING Food & Mix, Free Farouts Creative Attire--Theme: Albergo Grande Tickets $4.00 in Arkie Library 
EVERYONE WELCOME 


The store with more sensa tiona! clothes for young men than any other in Michiana 
Main at Lincoln way Downtown Mishawaka 
Introductory Coupon 

$5 of 
PURCHASE OF $25 OR MORE 
at 

Larry's Esquire Shop 
N.D. Students only-I.D.'s required 

Friday, November 3, 1972 the observer 1 1 
leers open with Bowling Green 


by Jim Donaldson WSND-AM (6400) and FM (88.9), boast two other talented forwards Sports Editor starting at 7:25 in wings Pete Badour, a senior, It seems too early to be thinking Beginning only its fourth season and Gerry Bradbury, a junior. 
Badour tallied 51 points last year
about the NCAA hockey tour­on the varsity level, Bowling Green 
nament scheduled for next March has already established its on 22 goals and 29 assists and in Boston but that's exactly what reputation within the CCHA Bradbury's totals were 15-33-48. 
the Falcons of Bowling Green Senior defenseman Chuck Gyles
posting a 21-10-2 record last year: 
07-41-58) is another top-notch
University will be doing when and has won the respect of Notre 
theyY, meet Notre Dame's Fighting Dame by losing just one of four performer. Irish in season-opening, home-and­games it's played the Irish in "They've got a good hockey 
club," Smith praised. "They're
home series this weekend. recent seasons. The teams first 
Bowling Green is a member of good size and very physical. They
met in 1969-70 and Notre Dame the Central Collegiate Hockey notched a 9-3 win and salvaged a 4-have solid goaltending (Terry Association, which has yet to win 4 tie. But, during the 1970-71 Miskolczi, 3.12 goals against 
recognition from the NCAA average, and Don Boyd, 3.65 GAAl
season, Bowling Green topped the selection committee when the Irish twice, 5-l and 3-2. and scoring potential." "Their style is similar to the
national championships roll "Most of our guys are well aware around. The Falcons feel that their that we were flat when we played pros," Smith continued. "They 
only chance to prove the CCHA's Bowling Green a couple of years play a tight checking game, using one forward as a forechecker and
brand of hockey is on a par with ago and we got our tails whipped," 
that of the WCHA and the Eastern the others to cover the wings. They
Smith said. "We won't make that Collegiate Athletic Conference is to mistake again." do a good job of standing teams up 
at the blue line." W~t~ last y~ar's top scorer, John Noble, out with an injury, right wing Ian beat clubs from those leagues--and Bowling Green has 14 of 20 While Bowling Green has played W!lha ms will h.a ve to pick up some of the scoring load this weekend as theNotre Dame is only the WCHA lettermen returning from a year
ml.'mber that will play a series ago, including standout center five exhibition games prior to its Insh open the•r 1972-73 season against Bowling Green. against Bowling Green this season. Mike Bartley, a junior who netted "official" opener tonight, in­lii"_Je. Bill Nyrop and Steve Curry smooth flow of play." "They must do well against 37 goals and recorded 31 assists in cluding scrimmages against teams w1ll be combined with R~gan's trio Notre Dame's goaltending WCHA teams," Irish coach 33 games last winter. The Falcons like the Cleveland Barons of the and Les Larson and RIC Schafer chores will be divided this weekend Charles 'Lefty' Smith points out, American Hockey League and are linked with Conroy's line. between senior Chris Cathcart and 
Guelph of the Ontario Hockey
"in order to merit NCAA con­"By using these five-man units," junior Mark Kronholm.
Association, the Irish will be
ND injuries
sideration. They're really going to Smith explained, "the players in "We were disappointed with our
playing their first full-length game 
be 'up' . This is a key series for each group get to know each record last year," Smith stated.
against outside competition.
them." 
other's moves. That will make for "We expect to make proper
Notre Dame is at a further

Bowling Green will host the Irish at still climbing a more balanced attack and a amends this year."
disadvantage this weekend

tonight in the B.G. Ice Arena 
because of the absence of its
7:30 p.m. and the two clubs will 
The men who market Astroturf 
outstanding center, John Noble,
meet again Sunday night at 7 
claim that it will reduce football 
the team's leading scorer in each
o'clock in the Athletic and Con­
injuries---but they certainly 
of the past three seasons. Noble is 
vocation Center. 
couldn't get an endorsement from 
side-lined by a severely bruised
Friday night's game will be Notre Dame. 
knee and it has not yet been
broadcast by campus radio· station The Fighting Irish, who have 
determined when he will return to
bl.'en practicing forSatur:day'sNavy 
the lineup. 
game on their new Astroturf 
Prior to his injury. Noble had

J. V. football 
gridiron because of the bad 
been skating between highscoring
wrather this week, added two 
wings Eddie Bumbacco and Ian 
(continued from page 12) more ballplayers to their growing Williams and, as Smith com­
injury list Thursday'
yards. "This past week we worked mented, "that line was head and 
Freshman Art Best hurt his knee 
shoulders above the others."
on pass defense because that's 
and may be lost for the rest of the
where they scored against us," "With Noble out, we have no 
Murphy said season while fullback John first, second or third lines," Smith Due to injuries, the Irish 
Cieszkowski suffered bad leg said. "We're well-balanced now contusions and is a doubtful starter but. obviously, lack some scoringdefensive line has been thinned 
tomorrown afternoon. punch."
quite a bit. End Jay Achterhoff is 
It was also learned Thursday
nursing a sprained ankle, while Senior Ricky Cunha will be Greg Szatko is out for the season that tackle John Dampeer, half­filling in for Noble this weekend 
back Darryll Dewan. and split end while Notre Dame's other lineswith a knee injury and Larry Susko Jim Roolf will be sidelined this have co-captain Paul Regan, last
has been moved up to the varsity. Bill Arment and Frank Rutkowski Wl.'ekend. Dampeer has apulled year's top goal scorer, with 30, 
back muscle and should be back in 
will fill in at tackles while Ken skating between Larry Israelson Andler and Bob Sweeney will hold action soon but Dewan and Roolf and D'Arcy Keating and 
down the end positions. Gary Lane may not be ready to play again this sophomore Pat Conroy centering will be back at linebacker, fall. Dewan is having knee for junior college transfer Mike alternating with Joe Pszeracki, problems while Roolf currently Dunphy and a vastly improved 
and the secondary of Sarb, has his foot in a cast as a result of Ray DeLorenzi. Chauncey, and Zloch is still in tearing ligaments in his ankle. The Irish will use three sets of tact. Back-up defensive tackle Greg defensemen , putting each pair on 
Tom Parise, Ron Goodman, Paul Szatko was also lost for the the ice with a particular line, Linehan and Tony Brantley will be remainder of the season this week comprising a five-man unit. Co­sharing the backfield duties on an because of a knee injury which captain Bill Green and Mark offensive unit which has amassed required surgery. Steinborn will skate with Cunha's 
882 yards total offense this season. With the injury to senior Jim Roolf, split end Pete Dem­merle was moved up to varsity and. once again, Kevin Doherty will see action at wide receiver. Doherty has 12 receptions for 138 yards, this year. 
The quarterback duties will be handled by Frank Allocco, Rick Slager and Frank Trosko. Slager is the leading passer on the squad with 14 completions in 34 attempts for 193 yards. 
This afternoon is the Irish junior varsity's last home game of the season. Next week they travel to Knoxville to play with the Ten­nessee Volunteers. Game time today is 1:30 p.m. Incase of bad weather however, the game will be played on the Astro-turf at Cartier Field at 2:30. 
•
THE KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
Will Have An Initiation This Sunday at 2:00 pm 
For more info: Call 7018 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
happy first, sweetheart; i'll beWANTED looking for the snowflakes 
Needed: ride to New Jersey (or NOTICESEast) Nov. 3. Call 8027. 
Sports car club now being formed,Wanted: ride to Detroit. Will 
rail Phil 272.9914 evenings.
share driving, expenses. Call Joe, 1412. 
Anyone who has rides to offer for any weekend please call The Need 3 general admission tickets Ombudsman at 7638. 
to Miami game. 4635. 
HELP the helpless unborn, with I desperately need a ride to time, money, or both. Right·to Columbus, Ohio, on Nov. 3!! If Life, Inc. 233·4295. you're going my way, please call me at 4679. Thanks, Jan. Europe Over Christmas! 
Fly with tl:le best . fly BOAC. $213 Will do typing. Themes, 
round trip! British Overseas manuscripts. Call: Jane Smith Airways Corp. Call Clark 283·8810 233·6909. 
tor details. 
No commericals tor two hours, Leaving November 18. phone 
Riders needed to Philadelphia. 
every Thurs and Fri. on WRBR, 7803. 
just dynamite music. Thrs. at 12 pm: CSN&Y; Fri at 12 pm: Need: 3general admission Miami 
Boogie. Nonsponsors, Jennifer's lix, call Gil 6125. 
Boutique & Pandora's Books. 
OFF-CAMPUS PARTY, by C.J., on Friday, Nov. 3, Paul 8276. 
Need ride for one to Milwaukee, 
Nies, Hoovy, & Jim. Saturday Nov. 4. 814 Turnock. Go to Corby, Need thanksgiving ride to Omaha 
one block past Frankies and go (Weds. or Tues.). Will share 
right for two blocks to Turnock. expenses and driving. Kevin 1329. 
Everyone invited, especailly Badin, Walsh and SMC. LIVE Need 3 general admission tickets 
BAND and refreshments. for Miami. Paul 8276. 
Put on your Trotta wig un­Desperately need ride to Chicago 
derneath the memory tree -3 giant steps into the past. My poor
Friday Nov. 3 after 4. Will pay. Call Scott: 1791. 
dog still has fleas -l'eaux Arts Pall· Saturday Nov. 4 9:00pm -1. Need ride to Muncie, Ind. Friday, 
Tickets at Arch·Library. See ya• Nov. 3. Call Marilyn 4217. 
there sweetie! 
Interested in skiing for N.D.? Nov. 10, call 4409. 
Need ride to Milwaukee for 3 on 
Contact Bob Hellmuth, 8 Sorin; 
8442. Wanted: 2 general admission fix tor Miami game, 234·5874. 
Contribute to Chimes Poetry, fiction, photography, art work. Student Union Secretary needed 
Room 129 Madaleva. Nov. 7 tor Mon, Wed, Fri afternoons. 
deadline. Call 7757 for information. PITT CLUB THANKSGIVING FOR SALE 
VACATION BUS SIGN.UPS. There will be a short meeting of 2 radial snow tires 165·14, 80 
all Pitt Club members intending .percent tread. Call 7729 or 233-to ride the Thanksgiving bus, 9868. Sunday, November 5, in room C-1 LaFortune (First Floor Am­CRYPT SPECIAL SALE 
phitheater) at 7:30pm. All those New Moody Blues . Seventh w11o plan to fly at Thanksgiving Sojourn and Peter Townsend's 
are also urged to attend this Who Came First: $3.35. Open 2·7, 
meeting. closed Tues. & Sunday. Duck Soup l1and & Scum of the For Sale: AKAI cassette deck 
Earth · Mondo l'izzarro, Friday GXC·40D new, call Terry 1732. night, 8:30 pm LaFortune t>allroom. 75 cents per person. Kneissel White Star skis with Nevada bindings, 210 em .• first 
THE BOAR'S HEAD 
$80 takes. 232·2742. 
Opening in November A young organization with a new PERSONAL concept in dining, featuring a limited steak and lobster menu. 
• 
Eliot-We are now completing ton. Wish i could be around to frost you struction of our building which with another surprise party this uses old English decor and five year. it's really the pits that i fireplaces to add to a warm an can't be there to help set some elegant atmosphere. fires and help put out the nineteen Accepting Applications for new ones. i hope you have a co~ks, bartenders, waiters, 
flaming day and get some nifty wa•tresses cashiers, dishwashers tire engines! Happy Birthday! dining room work. We'll be hirin~ Love, Camarry about 60 full and part time people 
for our opening crew. An ex. Bless your heart. cellent opportunity tor a "fun" my little sweetie and interesting iob for the school 
pie -Sally year and summer. Please apply 
•n person at the Tom Clements: Our apologies for ·. BOAR'S HEAQ 
Tuesday night. Hope we didn't ~1 North · next to Howard Johr. hurt you. Laura and Kath son's Restaurant..9 am to 6 pm I (Kidnappers) Ask for Henry or Bill · ___J 

12 the observer Friday, November 3, 1972 
t 
.. 
~ 
t 

• .,. 
Irish, Navy battle 
by Vic Dorr "Navy has some capable players offense. The Falcons entered the in the skilled positions," he said. game with a 43.8 scoring average
There is a quotation from Mi~uel " (Quarterback AIl Glenny can and a 432.2 total offense average,Cervantes on the back cover of the throw the footbaltctRd they have an and Navy allowed them but 17Naval Academy's 1972 football excellent receiver ht CBert) points and 281 total yards.
guide. A brief fo.ur-liner, it speaks 
Calland. Their defensive unit diQ.a
of the satisfaction of "vanquishing good job of containing Duke, and "Our defense did a heck of a and triumphing over one's job," praised Forzano. "Any time 
I'm sure Navy will be emotionally
enemy." you can limit an offensively­
high for us. This will give them 
In past season::. vther quotations­explosive team like Air Force to
another chance to upset a ranked 
-perhaps from the Impossible four first downs in a half, you are
team." 
Dream--would have been more Glenny and Calland make up the getting a superb defensive per­fitting for the Middies' grid for­formance.''
bulk of the air game, but Forzano's 
tunes, but no longer. Academy squad also has a potentially A pair of veteran seniors, tackle l'oach Rick Forzano isn't dangerous ground attack. Half­Mike O'Shaughnessy (6-1, 232) anddreaming these days, but instead backs Cleveland Cooper and Dan linebacker Chuck Voith (6-0, 198)is fielding a genuinely talented 
Howard are averaging 6.0 and 4.3 
head up the Middie defensivefootball team. And he has a 3-4 yards a try, respectively, and platoon. A third senior, tacklerecord and a cluster of impressive 

fullback Andy Pease is gaining 
Glen Nardi (6-5, 225) was injuredperformances to back him up. nearly five yards a carry. 

earlier in the season and should see

The Middies have already believe have only action
"We we two limited against thedeft>ated William and Mary and number-one tailbacks," said Irish. His slot will be filled by CliffBoston College, and two weeks ago Forzano. "Cleveland gives us Collier, a 6-3, 212-poundthey scored a surprising 21-17 speed to the outside and an ex­sophomore.
upset over nationally ranked Air plosiveness once past the line of Force. The other side of the Navy scrimmage. Dan is a durable Experience dots the Navy ledger is misleading. Only one of runner who can pop for the im­defense. Collier and end Tim the four defeats ha.s been a portant short yardage and break a Hardin are the only sophomore 
runaway (a :15-7 decision against long run if the circumstances are starters, and five of the eleven 
Michigan l and in that game Navy regulars are seniors. Fourth-year
favorable." 
trailed by only one touchdown as man Mike Behrent (6-1, 210) joins
The Midshipman defense, which
late as the third quarter. Voith in the linebacking corps, and 
has been suspect in past years, has 
The other losses have come at Pat Virtue (5-11, 172) and Tim
been an up-and-down unit this
the hands of Penn State (21-10), Broderick (5-11, 178) man two of 
season. After allowing only nine
Syracuse C~0-14l and Duke 07-16). the deep defensive slots.
points to William and Mary and 21
Notre Dame assistant coach 
to Penn State, Navy's "D" had Notre Dame will counter Navy'sJohn Murphy scouted the Middies I rouble against Syracuse and experience and potential with a 
in their game against Duke <a Michigan. But the Middies, if team that is 5-1, and is coming off a game Navy lost when a two-point aroused, can play good defensive 21-0 blanking of Texas Christian. 
conversion attempt went aw· .Y 
football. The Irish have enjoyed easy days
with 90 seconds left to play), and Against Air Force, Navy shut against Navy since 1967, but Coach Murphy was impressed by what he 
down the nation's fourth-ranked Ara Parseghian isn't looking for saw. the trend to repeat in Saturday's game. 

"This is a completely different team than the one we've faced in recent years," he said. "They have some fine football players
The Irish Eye 
and their having upended the Air Force two weeks ago should make 

:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::FootboII picksf~;Y.)fa?:r~P ~~~i;;~r'ki~~ ~~~~ 
Notre Dame meets Navy for the 46th consecutive year tomorrow in za_no has done an outstan?ing job Philadelphia but that's not the only match-up of long-time rivals on th~s _year and he has his team Saturday's collegiate football schedule. playmg good, tough football. Just 
The Irish and Middies have a lengthy and exciting series history, altho_ugh Notr~ Dame h~s domina_ted the games through the years, Jayvees clash 
wmnmg 35, losmg only nme and tymg one. 
But two other time-honored rivalries will be renewed this weekend that figure to be of greater national interest than the N.D.-Navy game. Stanford and UCLA tangle in the Los Angeles Coliseum in what promises with MSU to be a close, hard fought affair, and, ln the deep South, Ole Miss and Louisiana State knock heads in Baton Rouge. UCLA seems headed for a by Greg Corgan Pacific Eight title showdown with Southern Cal while LSU is lookingahead to its game next week with Alabama that ought to decide the The big game may be in Southeast Conference championship. Both Stanford and Mississippi Philadelphia against Navy this would like to put a crimp in their rivals' title hopes. weekend but, for JV coach Dennis 
The Nebraska-Colorado game hasn't reached "classic" status yet but, Murphy and his squad, it's this
afternoon in Notre Dame Stadium 

if the two teams continue to play as they have recently, such a distinction against Michigan State. The junior 
might not be long in coming. Colorado, stunned last week by Missouri,
will be out to keep its slim hopes for the top spot in the Big Eight alive by Irish will try and avenge an earlier
26-14 loss at the hands of the

knocking off Nebraska. But the 'Huskers have been playing with a Spartans in East Lansing. vengeance ever since their season opening loss to UCLA. So far this season the Irish JV's In other top games across the land, Boston College and Syracuse meet have compiled a _2 record, but
1 

in Chesnut Hill, Air Force and Army will stage a spirited service en-this is hardly an indication of the counter at West Point, Michigan State seeks to derail visiting Purdue's quality of the ballplayers on the Boilermakers, who are unbeaten in Big Ten play, and Pittsburgh battles junior varsity squad. Due to an West Virginia in the Steel City. unusual flurry of injuries on the 
Here are this week's predictions: varsitythisseason, coach Murphy's Notre Dame over Navy-They may be playing in the City of Brotherly junior varsity tea'll is never quite love but the Irish are planning to do lots of nasty things to the gentlemenly the same from week to week. Midshipmen. Besides that, day to day during the 
Air Force over Army-While Navy is fighting a losing battle in week the junior varsity only has Philadelphia, the other two service schools meet at West Point. The from 10 to 15 minutes a practice to aerial attack of the Falcons ought to bomb the ground-oriented Cadets. work together as a unit. 
Southern Cal over Washington State-The Trojans have one last At the end of the week, as varsity breather before winding up against UCLA and Notre Dame. preparation draws to a close, the UCLA over Stanford-If the Bruins can get by Stanford, only Southern JV squad will get together for 30 or Cal stands in the way of a Pacific Eight title. 40 minutes to prepare for the up-Louisiana State over Mississippi-Playing in Baton Rouge gives the coming game. Coach Murphy Tigers the edge they'll need to win this meeting of arch-rivals. explained, "Most of the stuff we Oklahoma over Iowa State-Some people are saying that the Cyclones use in games we'd put in before the can beat Oklahoma. But they all live in Ames-and they'reall wrong. season had actually gotten un-Boston College over Syracuse-B.C. would like to come back strong derway and before we started against the Orangemen after losses to Pittsburgh and Air Force. preparing for games. We just Auburn over Florida-Shug Jordan's Tigers will post their second don't have enough time to make 
straight win over a club from the Sunshine State. changes during the week." Illinois over Northwestern-The Illini can finally chalk up win number This afternoon at 1:30 the junior one. Irish will be out for revenge. In 
Nebraska over Colorado-The Cornhuskers may well have the nation's East Lansing two weeks ago Notre best team-again. The Buffalos ought to give fans an indication of how Dame was in control until hurt by good Nebraska really is. numerous turnovers in the second Purdue over Michigan State-Will there be chants of "Good-bye, half, prompting Murphy to say, Duffy" wafting down from East Lansing late Saturday afternoon? ''This week we'll be out to Michigan over Indiana-The Hoosiers certainly aren't good enough to eliminate the errors. I feel we are stop the unbeaten Wolverine machine. the better ball club and we have Ohio State over Minnesota-The Buckeyes only concern is Michigan on better personnel than they do. UpNovember 25th. there, the game was close until we 
Missouri over Kansas State-This one seems too easy for the fired-up coDmmf itt~d alii tMhose herror~ · "h Tigers. . e ensive y, . urp y. ~~11 ave Upset of the week: his team workmg specifically on 
Pitt over West Virginia-The Panthers hope to catch the Mountaineers : pass tde~entest At ~ate,lka~an "down" after a defeat to Penn State which cost them the Lambert ~u::e ~~u~~dow~v;ass~~r :Oe fo~e~ Trophy. ' 
Last week: 10of 15.667 Season's pet. 87 of 120.725. 
(continued on page 11) 

for 46th time 
"YOU/D BETTER PREPARE TO MAN YOUR LIFEBOATS.'' 

was just superb. The offense still made a number of errors but they moved the ball well against a good dt>fensive ball club." 
pleasure with last week's showing Tomorrow's game will be played by the Irish--who are now rated in Philadelphia's Veterans' 12th in the nation in both polls. • Stadium. with kickoff slated for 
"Our defense, led by Greg Marx, 1: :~o pm t t' .s.t .l 

Mike Creaney'm•mmnmumunmmmmnmmuuu 
rrimmmum•mmumm11Gome Week: Navy 
Sunday night, the team and the coaches watched a good re-run movte-­ND vs. TCU, 1972. Catchy title, eh? We were all pretty happy to watch it again though. It had been a couple of weeks since we had seen a good flick. The atmosphere was a little lighter, everyone breathed a little easier, knowing "big brother" would make a happy ending. A week's worth of tightening belt straps andPmotionalstress was over, and we all relaxed watched the films. Winning isn't everything, but losing sure isn't anything ... especially when we beat ourselves. All the fun on Saturday is in the winning, and believe me, losing is no fun ...for anyone. I just hope the next four games (maybe five) all have happy endings too-could cause a guy to become nostalgic. 
Monday afternoon, and now we're sure that coach Parseghian saw some things on Saturday which encouraged him. Two words were written on the board which bring job to every player's heart: NO PADS. This is really a special treat, likeable to your father's surprising you with tickets to a baseball game some summer evening (or a new barbie doll outift 
for no particular reason, girls). After game ball and special awards, TCU 
is in the past, done, exactly the same way Missouri had been the Monday 
before. Over, but not forgotten; the pain still smarts and we remember 
our lesson well. There's an introduction to Navy personnel, and 
defensively they sound familiar; Glen Nardi, Chuck Voith, Pat Virtue. 
They should sound familiar. Navy returns 9 of 11 starters from last year. 
Super soph Cleveland Cooper is a real threat in the backfield, QBs AI 
Glenny and Fred Stuvek, Andy Pease and a big offensive line all aim to 
sink our ship. 
We ran through so!e time-ups, defensively and offensively, looking at some new ideas an defensive fronts. Monday night we watched the Middies upset the F Icons, have a fatal third quarter against Michigan, and get nipped by D e 17·16. Navy head coach Rick Forzano attempted a two-point conversi n late in the game which failed. Navy fumbled in Duke's end zone or 4tey would have won the game. Good football team. 
Tuesday afternoon most of the levity is gone, as we settle down to work. Coaches want, to look at some plays and ideas full tilt. We time-up running and passing separately, then end the two-hour and ten-minute workout with a half ~our goal line scrimmage. Tuesday is a "work day," looking at possibiliti~s for the game on Saturday, defensive alignments, practice picking up blitzes, reading coverages, and working through all our own stuff. 
Somehow, I always sleep better on Tuesday and Wednesday nights. Tuesday night we watch Navy again in films, concentrating on our in­dividual positions and opponents. 
Wednesday is "hump day: "once it's done, we're over the hump for the week. We've thrown out some plays and added some new ones. The finalized game plan is only a practice away, and we're put through our paces today, too. Wednesday only lasts two hours and five minutes though, so we're tapering off for the game. That night, we finalize our game plan in meetings,work out blocking difficulties and generally put the finishing toucl)es on. All the heavy work for the week is done; all that's left is the polishing--and the game. 
Thursday , some of the clowning around in the locker room returns. Casper is singing Neil Young and almost everyone is giving someone else grief. We're on the field for one hour and 20 minutes on Thursday, polishing and reviewing the game plan, bmshing up on patterns and routes, assignments, audibles, formations and all that stuff. I wind up owing Coach Parseghian $100 for a bet on Bob Thomas' field goal try. It was actually good, but I forgot who was making the call. We've got a good game plan, we know what we're doing. All that's left is Navy on Saturday, when we'll get the chance to make our practice pay off on the field and on the scoreboard. We've gotten all the coaches could teach us; it's in our hands now. Let's go get us a Midi. in Philly. Sound indecent? 




