On The Inside 
H-man investigatespreregistration ... page 3 
Hofman  opens  tutorial  
center  
... page 5  



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol VII No. 55 Friday, December 1, 1972 
Dean's Coznznittee proposes program 
by Mike O'Har" Staff Reporter 
The Dean's Committee on Collegiate Development has issued a report on a potential new developmental program of instruction for the College of Arts and Letters. 
As currently structured, the College of Arts and Letters follows the conventional model in American undergraduate education. Two years of exploratory studies are followed by two years of specialization in departmental fields. 
In the Dean's Committee report, the four year developmental program would introduce a one:t­wo:one academic structure. The first year of this program would represent a period of common ex­perience for all Arts and Letters freshmen. The second and third years of the student's education would be a vertical continuity of concentrated studies in a collegiate sequence or in a departmental major. The senior year of the program would represent a period of unification and individualization of the student's education. 
According to the Committee's report, the chief aim 
of the Arts and Letters developmental program in the 
Freshman Year would be to enable the student to 
"secure a sense, an image, and an idea of the 
character of the liberal experience upon which he is 
entering. These elements should be exhibited and 
emphasized in the courses taken in the Freshman 
Year, so that they can also become the source of 
specific reflective study directed toward the problem 
of what a liberal and civil education is." 
two options available 
The sophomore and junior years in the one:two:one structure would form a vertical sequence that would constitute the period of the student's most con­centrated effort. During these two years, two options would be available to the student. After meeting with his counselor, the student could choose a major in one of the departments of the College. This would allow him to study a central interest in which he could gain a special competence. Premature over-concentration could be averted because the major be bufferred by requirements that would insure contact with other disciplines. 
The student's second option would be to enter one of 
the collegiate sequences which the proposed 
developmental program would introduce. "These two 
year collegiate sequences would place emphasis upon 
a theme which would be pursued and developed 
through a constellation of courses offered by the 
departments in their competence as contributory to the 
theme," explains the report. In the organization of 
these collegiate sequences, the selection and com­
position of the contributory courses would serve in 
highlighting the character of a liberally oriented 
education. 

wide perspective offered 
The structure of the collegiate sequence would in­
clude a theme of basic interest, for example some 
potential sequence topics could be American 
Civilization, Science Technology and Society, and Art 
and Society. A variety of courses from diverse 
disciplines would offer a wide perspective of the 
theme. The constellation of courses investigating the 
theme of American Civilization, as an example, would 
draw courses from such areas as American History, 
Economics, Sociology, Politics, Literature, Religion, 
and Philosophy. The exploration of the themes would 
result from the progression through these core cour­
ses. 
Each collegiate sequence would be directed by a 
professor and assisted by a counselling committee of 
interested faculty and students. These counselors, 
under the direction of the collegiate professor, would 
design the collegiate sequence, guide its progress, and 
evaluate its success at decisive points. 
The senior year of the developmental program would 
be geared to a broadening of knowledge gained from 
either the collegiate sequence or major. The student 
could engage in a creative writing, or seek further 
concentration in a special field. 
Perhaps the most unique innovation contained in the 
proposed developmental program of instruction is the 
creation of an alternative to the traditional major, the 
collegiate sequence. 

"an alternative path" 
At a recent meeting of the Council of the College of Arts and Letters, Dr. Robert Caponegri of the Philosophy department described the concept behind the collegiate sequence as "providing the un­
(continued on page 4) 

Hall Life Fund monies 


Halls receive allocations 
by Jim Eder 
activities." 
Staff Reporter 

Jeselnick pointed out that this year's fund was ac­tually $4,900 less than last year's. Last year the A list of allocations of the $5,100 Hall Life Fund was student government provided $5,000, and the ad­released recently by a five-man committee delegated ministration matched this figure. This year, however, by the Hall President's Council. the student government budget allocation alone was 
Made up of HPC Chairman Butch Ward, HPC the source of the $5,100 Hall Life Fund. Executive Coordinator Steve Jeselnick, Ron Paja, "The reason for the change," Jeselnich explained, Fisher Hall president, Kevin Griffith, Grace Hall "is that the trustees have provided a $50,000 fund for president. and Fr. Andrew Ciferni, Holy Cross Hall major hall renovations." rector. the committee made its highest allocation of The committee decided not to allot funds for profit­$375 to St. Edward's Hall. Spokesmen from St. Ed-making endeavors, such as food-sales and movie wards reported that the money would be used for a festivals. banquet and a Hall Fellows Night. "Such projects," noted Ciferni, "should pay for 
No allocations were granted to Morissey, Grace and themselves." Flanner. as they did not request funds. The one exception to this policy was Old College Hall, 
"Funds were allocated to those projects that we felt which received $150 for food-sales equipment. would best improve the spirit of the hall," explained "Because this hall has only 26 residents and no fund Ward. . "The money was never i~tended for major from last year, we decided to help them get on their renovatiOns, but rather for small Improvements and feet," said Ciferni. 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJI 
Allocations by halls 
Hall Requested 
Alumni 515.00 365.00 Study furniture Rec room equipment 
Badin 824.00 225.00 Color TV Kitchen Utensils & coffee pot 
Breen-Phillips 400.00 200.00 Lounge couches 
Cavanaugh 400.00 300.00 Study furniture 
Dillon 800.00 210.00 Pool table 
Farley 280.00 280.00 Photography equipment Ping-Pong table 
Fisher 366.75 250.00 Hall activities 
Flanner .00 .00 
Grace .00 .00 
Holy Cross 520.00 200.00 Ping-Pong tables (2) Pool table repair TV repair 
Howard 245.76 225.00 Study chairs Overnight cots Kitchen utensils 
Keenan 500.00 325.00 Pool table Ping-Pong table 
Lyons 400.00 275.00 Kitchenette stove 
Morrissey .00 .00 
Old College 300.00 300.00 Food sales equipment Hall banquet Athletic fund 
Pangborn 270.00 270.00 Exhaust fan Kitchenette refrigerator Kitchen utensils 
St. Edwards 775.00 375.00 Hall banquet Hall Fellows. Night 
St. Josephs 150.00 150.00 Hall banquet Hall Social Commission 
Sorin 400.00 300.00 Lounge. furniture Hall banquet 
Stanford 2,876.00 300.00 Pool table 
Walsh 376.00 250.00 Hall-Section party Overnight cots Kitchen utensils 
Zahm 500.00 300.00 Pool table Kitchen utensils 
... 
, 

_____:________~ _____:___:_____._•'''· . 
Friday, December 1, 1972
the observer 


warld 

briefs 
(C> IHi2 Nf'W York Times 

Saigon--South Vietnam's President Thieu, convinced that a cease-fire is on the way, is planning major cabinet changes to broaden his government's political appeal. There are strong indications that the post-war Prime Minister will be General Tran Van Don, who has maintained good relations with both the Thieu and opposition camps. 
Paris--President Nixon will permit "no avoidable delay" in ending the Vietnam War. That was the message Ambassador William J. Porter brought to· the 168th session of the four-sided formal Paris Peace talks. But neither that nor statements by other delegation leaders indicated the meeting had hastened the end of the conflict. 
Washington--William P. Rogers will stay on as Secretary of State, but he will get three new top assistants to give the department a new look at the start of President Nixon's second term. Kenneth Rush will move over from the Pentagon to become Deputy Secretary of State, William 
J. Porter. now Senior Delegate to the Paris Peace talks will become Under Secretary for Political Affairs and William J. Casey, Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, will become the Department's first Under Secretary for Economic Affairs. 
Cape Kennedy --T minus 104 hours and 30 minutes. That was the starting position of the electronic clocks as the countdown began for the nation's last scheduled mission to the moon, set for next Wed­nesday night. 
an aunpu• tllday 
friday 

3:30 
pm --speech, otis bowen, c.c.e. 

3:30 
pm --lecture, donald davidson, lib. aud. 


4:30 pm lecture, phil Iippe pondeur, 226 math building 4:30pm lecture, john bailer, 123 nieuwland science hall 
7:00 pm --swimming, invitational relays, rockne pool 
saturday 

10:00 AM & 2:.00 pm --play, winnie the pooh , little theatre, s.m.c. 
1: 00 pm & 8:00 pm --circus, pollack brothers shrine circus, a.c.c. 4:00pm--football, notre dame vs. southern cal, wsjb, ch. 28 7:00pm --dinner, madrigal dinner, o'laughlin foyer, s.m.c. 8:00pm--play, the gospel according to matthew, library auditorium 
sunday 

2:00 & 7:00pm--play. winnie the pooh , little theatre, s.m.c. 
87:00 pm --dinner, madrigal dinner, o'laughlin foyer, s.m.c. 7:30pm--meeting, women's caucus, library auditorium 
Campus Roundup 

Law School slates Bowen 
Observer ads pay off 
Governor-elect Dr. Otis Bowen will speak in the Law School's "State of America" lecture series today at 3:30 in the Center for Continuing Education. 
Indiana's next governor will speak on his proposals for his administration. His talk is part of the lecture series sponsored by the Notre Dame Law school and open to the public without charge. 
Professor Paul Moo of the Law school and Student Chairman Clark Arrington announced that Bowen is expected to be greeted by Fr. Burtchaell. university provost, and will hold a brief press con­ference before his address. 
Gordon elected 
Dr. Robert Gordon, vice president for advanced studies at the University Notre Dame, has been elected to the Board of 
Have friend.~ in far-away places? ND's ham radio club could save you telephone costs. . •Observer photo by Joe Raymond. 
HELP SAVE LIVES 




GIVE BLOOD 
Stepan Center Thurs. lo-4, Fri. 9-3 

Trustees of BwlogiCal Abstracts for a term of 3 years. 
A former editor of the American Midland Naturalist, a journal based at Notre Dame, Gordon is also chairman of the Science In­formation Council of the National Scinece Foundation and of the Standing Committee on the Communication of Scientific In­forma lion of the Pacific Science Association. He is also director of Notre Dame's Environmental Hesearch Center at Land O'Lakes, Wis. 
UNICEF Xmas cards 
The annual NO-UNICEF Christmas card sale will coninue in the Memorial Library lobby Monday through Friday next week from 9:30am to 4:30pm. 
UNICEF Christmas cards are also available today until 4:30 in the NO Post Office. 
All proceeds from the sale of the cards go to unicef for food, health eare and educational services for ehildren around the world. 
Sales people are volunteers from Badin and Walsh halls and the wives of faculty and staff of NO and SMC. Last year the group raised $650 from their efforts. 


----------------------------------------------------------J 
Fr.iday, December 1, 1972 the observer 
3 


Goal: 'to get complaints' 

H-mancommittee to evaluate preregistration 
by Jim Ferry Questionaires are being Staff Reporter distributed by H.I.C.C.O.U.P. (H­Man's Investigation Concerning Questionaires concerning Cruel or Unusual Preregistration). 
preregistration complaints are According to H.I.C.C.O.U .P. now available at the chairman Mike Geisinger, the preregistration desks in the Ad­main purpose of the investigation ministration Building. The is to "get the complaints" and 

Nixon seeking quick end to war, despite an i1npasse in Paris 
by Henry kamm 
(C) 1972 New York Times Paris. Nov. 30 --Ambassador William J. Porter affirmed to Vietnamese Communist negotiators today that President Nixon intended "to permit no avoidable delay" in ending the Vietnam War. 
But nothing in the statements delivered by the four delegation leaders to one another, or by their spokesmen to the press, indicated that today's 168th session of the Paris Peace Talks had brought the end of the conflict nearer. 
In a meeting overshadowed by the resumption next Monday of the negotiations between Henry 
A. Kissinger and Le Due Tho, the principal negotiators for the United States and North Viet­nam. each party continued to emphasize its most recent public positions. 
North Vietnam and the Com­munist South Vietnamese delegation condemned the United States for failing to sign the draft accord negotiated by Kissinger and Tho early last month and accused the government in Saigon of seeking to sabotage the peace efforts. 
South Vietnam stressed that it felt no cease-fire could be achieved as long as North Vietnamese Regular troops remained on its territory. 
"The key is the presence of :lOO.OO North Vietnamese troops in our country," said Nguyen Trieu•Dan, a South Vietnamese spokesman. "If that problem is solved. everything else will follow." The United States estimates that 145,000 North Vietnamese troops are in the South. 
Porter appeared at pains to dispel pessimistic reports on the negotiations. In an evident at­tempt to put the most positive interpretation 0t1 the reopening of negotiating after the signing of an accord had appeared at hand, the American negotiator declared: 
"Peace, when it comes, will be all the more stable and enduring if it is the result of planning careful and equitable relation­ships for the future." 
On emerging from the session, Porter struck another note of optimism when he cautioned reporters against what he con­sidered an "unwarranted amount. in my view at least, of pessimism" in some dispatches. He added: 
"I would caution you to take care lest you be caught with your pens down." 






Teacher evaluations to bedistributedsoon 
by Bob Quackenbush Staff Reporter 
The distribution of Teacher­Course E-:valuation forms is im­minent. thus students will soon have the opportunity to convey thPir reflections about instructors and their teaching performances during the course of the first semester. 
Aecording to Dean Richard J. Thompson. chairman of the Teacher-Course Evaluation Committee. fair and impartial rating of instructors on the part of the students is extremely im­portant. as the evaluation serves two major·functions. "The first of these". said Thompson," is the improvement of teaching. The second function of the evaluation is to help in administration is to help in administrative decisions on promotion and tenure." 
The results of the questionnaire are carefully perused by depart­ment chairmen. deans. and the individual ins.tructor. "Chairmen have responsibility for the ex­cellence of teaching in their departments," stated Thompson. lie explained that data received through the short-answer questions is fed into a computer, and if a bad pattern regarding an individual instructor is for­thcoming, the chairman would hold consultations with the in­structor for further evaluation. 
The Teacher-Course Evaluation Committee has set up two major objectives which it hopes to attain this year. The first is an improved response to the essay portion of the evaluation form, since written responses can in many instances be of greater service in improving a course than a computer print­out. Secondly, the committee would like to see more careful scrutiny of the results. 
In a letter to the Observer dated November 29, 1972. Thompson wrote. "Since classroom teaching raison d'etre of the colleges, it is important to consult the only group that sees the teacher as teacher." This is the importance of the Teacher-Course Evaluation. 
The l'orm originated in 1968 for use within the College of Arts and Letters. Since then. the Teacher Course Evaluation Committee has been established to develop a form generally applicable to all areas of instruction in the university. 

make the individual student feel that he was dealt with fairly". 
Geisinger cited several areas of preregistration complaints that the investigation will deal with. He said that "really bad waiting lines in some majors" and "courses closing out even before registration opened" were of special concern. 
Geisinger noted that there were ·• a lot of complaints regarding the preregistration with the Business College". 
"There are all kinds of little problems. In check-mark courses 
Hearings 


for instance, there are certain inherent evils." 
H.I.C.C.O.U.P. 
consulted with the university Registrar before their action. The Registrar ap­proved of their plan, and according to Geisinger, "felt kind of distant from student ideas and saw that we could help him." 

H.I.C.C.O.U.P. 
has set up booths on the fourth floor of the Ad­ministration Building. After gathering the details, the in­vestigation hopes to meet with the registrars. faculty, and studentsa and evaluate the facts. 



CAC announces LAST DAY OF ADVANCE SALE FOR 
MARCEL· MARCEAU 
Feb. 16th -8 pm Olaughlin Main floor $4.50 Balcony $3.50 All Seats Reserved -Patrons Free 
ADVANCE SALE ENDS: FRI. DEC 1st at 5 pm 
TICKETS WILL BE ON SALE 
AT THE CAC OFFICE FRIDAY FROM 1-5 pm 
Geisinger sam that once the problems are found out, "we'll approach the profs with them and then report to the Registrar." He added that he wasn't exactly "sure how we'll end up". 
According to a Notre Dame StudentGovernment <Ministry of Propaganda) news release, "If anyone has any questions, please 
~contact the Ombudsman at 7638" and that "anyone interested in becoming a member of HICCOUP is asked to call the Student Government offices at 7668." 


THE ROMA 
welcomes ND-SMC Students Your Host Frank Anastasio 
Delicious Italian Food & Pizza 
Liquor 
Complete Rib Steak Dinner Dancing to the sophisticatec; Jazz.Rock sounds of the Bitl Nicks Trio Open until 4:00 A.M. on 
Weel<ends. 
FOR DELIVERIES CALL 234-3258 
219 N. MICHIGAN Avenue !(next 
to Morris Civic) 
Downtown South Bend. 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 

5:15 p.m. Sat. 
Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.

9:30 a.m. Sun. 
Fr. William Matthews, C.S.C. 

10:45 a.m. Sun. 
Fr. Stephen Malkewicz, O.F.M. 

12: 15 p.m. Sun Fr. Andrew Ciferni, 0. Praem 
"Evening Prayer" vespers at 4:30p.m. Sunday. 
Confessions are heard before each weekday 
mass and from 7:00 to 7:30p.m. Monday throu,gh 
Saturday. 
Acareer in law... 
WithOUt laW SChOOl. 
When you become a Lawyer's Assistant. 
you'll do work traditionally done by lawyers 
-work which is challenging, responsible 
and intellectually stimulating. Lawyer's 
Assistants are now so critically needed that 
The Institute for Paralegal Traini-ng can 
offer you a position in the city of your choice 
-and a higher starting salary th~ou'd 
expect as a recent college graduate. Here 
is a career as a professional with financial 
rewards that increase with your developing 
expertise. 
If you are a student of high academic 
standing and are interested in a legal 
career, come speak with our representative. 
Contact the Placement Office. A representative of The Institute will visit your campus on: 

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 5 
NOTE: II the above date is inconvenient for you. please call or write The Institute for information. 
The Institute for Paralegal Training 
13th floor. 401 Walnut St. Phila.. Pa. 19106 (215) WA 5-0905 
1 
1 
I 
---____j ~ 

the observer Friday, December 1, 1972 

Happy Day Care Center offers solid program 
by Marty Miller Staff Reporter 
"I think it is fulfilling a very useful service that must 
be provided," said Dr. Edward Henry, Saint Mary's 
President refering to the Happy Day Care Center. 
The one year old day care center is located in t~e 
Clubhouse, on the St. Mary's campus. It opened 1ts 
doors in November, 1972 thanks to the ideas and efforts 
of Lynn Mastriana, a 1972 SMC graduate. 
"Before the day care center was opened, the faculty 
and administration of Notre Dame St. Mary's didn't 
think that there would be a need for such a facility," 
said Kathy Coronado, present director of the Happy 
Day Care Center. "But surveys taken at the time in­
dicated that there was such a need," she added. 
The day care center is financially_ independent. of 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's, but 1t does rece1ve 
donations from theN .D. and SMC student governments 
and the Notre Dame Graduate Student Union. St. 
Mary's college donates the building, h~at, electricity 
and maintenance. 
"We are a non-profit organization," said Coronado, 
who has been active for two years in other day care 
centers. She is also completing work on a master's 
degree in Special Education at IUSB. 
Henry expressed the hope of expanding the day care 
center with the assistance of public funds. "But at 
present, we don't know where the expansion would be 
located," he added. 
The center is open Monday through Friday from 
eight a.m. to five p.m., and is capable of handling 
thirty children at any one time. The facility employs 
two teachers; Valerie Bresahan during the morning, 
and Donna Giles during the afternoon. They both have 
degrees in Elementary Education and Early Childhood 
Training. 
An average of two students per hour volunteer their 


New AL sequence 
(continued from page I) 
dergraduate with an alternative path." He stated that the collegiate sequence was not merely another regrouping of courses, but represented a different collegiate experience for the student. By pursuing a thematic rather than subject oriented course of studies, Dr. Caponegri believed the sequences would provide the student a broad and comprehensive thematic and problematic point of view. In allowing the student to integrate his own type of thinking into this program, he felt the collegiate sequence would "provide the student-a greater opportunity to organize his educational experience." 
At the same meeting of the Council, the Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, Frederick Crosson, mainlined that the collegiate sequence would "in­troduce a desired flexibility in the College." The Dean also believed the sequences would benefit curriculum structure, making it more responsive to the continual concerns and needs of students and society than the traditional disciplines. He also saw value in the collegiate sequence allowing the student to be a partial co-designer in his curriculum in the College. 
Neil Rosini, a student representative on the Arts and Letters College Council, is very much in favor of the collegiate sequence concept. He thinks it will permit a concstructive alternative to the traditional major and allow the students to explore interdisciplinary themes. Rosini feels that "by exploring these themes, students might experience a more rewarding four years at Notre Dame." While some students may find the major to be over-restrictive, he sees value in the fact that "the themes can be tailored to meet the needs of the individual." 
A program similar to the thematic nature of the proposed collegiate sequence is currently being offered on the graduate level at Syracuse University. Under the direction of Dr. Arthur Fleming, "Arts and Ideas" pursues the theme of the interrelationship between artistic expression and the main forces of society in the seventeenth century. The program approaches this theme through five courses which study the diverse forms of music, literature, and visual arts, as well at the significant societal forces of this century. 
Although it would have to survive a complicated process of approval to be implemented, the develop­mental program proposed by the Dean's Committee Report services. "Some of the student volunteers work to supplement psychology and education courses, and others simply enjoy working with children," said Coronado. 

The children of students, faculty, staff and alumni are eligible for the Happy Day Care Center. These children must be between two and five years of age and toilet trained. 
The parents pay for this service on a "sliding scale" according to their financial status. "The faculty usually pays 65 centers per hour and students usually pay 45 centers per hour," said Coronado, "but it is based on financial ability." 
The children at the center eat lunch at the St. Mary's dining hall and receive a mid-morning and mid­afternoon snack. 
The daily program of the Happy Day Care Center emphasizes the social development of the child rather than the academic. The teachers concentrate primarily on peer interaction through group games, 
Children are enrolled in the center on many different time schedules, and six of them attend full time. The teachers recommend that they be enrolled at least six hours per week to ensure appropriate interaction with the other children. 
Happy Day Care Center is operated by a board of directors that meets once a month. Students, faculty and alumni parents are represented on the board. Some of the members include Dr. Tom Peterson of the SMC Education Department, Dr. Neil Delaney, chairman of the Notre Dame Philosophy Department and Mrs. Edward Henry. 
Ms. Coronado is pleased with the success of the day care center. "We are finally being accepted as a vital and important aspect of college and university life," 
she declared. 




Childress advocates 'reluctance for violence' 
by Jim Gresser Staff Reporter 
Maintaining that just wars may only be fought with "reluctance" and with careful "justification", Dr. James Childress ad­dressed fifty people , mostly students, last night in the Hayes-Healy Building. 
Violence must be justified 
The Chairman of Religious Studies at the University of Virginia said that though he is a Quaker, he finds "Quaker pacifism un­tentable." He explained that the purpose of his talk, in that light, was to "splash cynical acid" on the just war theory. Definingviolenceas intentionally harming a person, primarily physically, against that person's will, Childress said. that "violence is prima facie wrong" and added that therefore it "stands in need of justification." He also said thatperhaps a person should be viewed as "less than fully human" if he sees no need for that justification. 
Only as last resort Violence should always be considered as a "last resort" he said, and therefore violence and non-violence are "not on an equal footing from the outset." Speaking of using these two methods for achieving social change, Childress said that "even if the difference between violent and non-violent coercion was merely a matter of degree, humane men are concerned with matters of degree." 
Man not utilitarian 
Aside from the obvious evils of violence, Childress pointed out that men cannot ac­curately predict all the results of their ac-
on Collegiate Development raises many issues within the Arts and 

Need a gift for a frigid woman?
Letters College that must be an­swered. The resulting dialogue 

See the assortment of matching
could have important con­sequences on the future curriculum structure of the College. 

SCARFS CAPS
WANT UNUSUAL ENTERTAINMENT FOR 


AND MITTENS
A HOLIDAY PARTY? An amusing Veteran of 

-at HELEN'S BOUTIQUE 
stage, film and T.V. can 

105 South M·ichigan 
your club, group or school. 
ALSO: HANDBAGS 
ACCESSORIES 
Phone 233-3855 
OTHER GIFTS
CALL 234-1573 

tions and no man has "ethical infallibility". People must be "very hesitant" therefore to commit violence. He noted that though "God may be utilitarian, we cannot be." 
Reluctance for violence 
He added, however, that the "Prohibition against violence can be overridden." He said that he recognized the possible need for violence in a "Just war or a just revolution". He pointed out that "non­violence is not a seamless fabric." He advocates "not abstension, but reluctance for violence." 
Childress was brought to Notre Dame by the Theology Department and the Program on Non-violence. Stanley Hauerwas,Notre Dame Theology faculty member and former schoolmate of Childress at Yale, introduced the speaker. 
No fly, may die 
Wellington, New Zealand--T.ae rare notornis bird, which cannot fly, may face extinction, officials reported. The notornis population has shrunk from 500 to about 200 since 1948. 

-30% off Latex Paint 
15% off unpainted furniture 
333 S. Michigan 289-2439 
ANYTHING WRONG WITH: 
L1istening to a couple of fantastic bands? 

Finding someone to dance to them with? Drinking anything you can think of? Staying up late and missing Carson one or two nights a week? So Now You Know Where You're At 

~. v'Vit. C/,~· 
2802 SOUTH llth ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
~..,.... 
----~­
--------·------------------, 

Friday, December 1, 1972 the observer 
5 

New tutorial center in Brownson 
by James Abowd Hofman said the new Learning "The larger room will be a background level is for students Observer Staff Reporter Hesource Center will be able to mt-dia center." according to with no previous experience with a provide that aid at no extra cost to Hofman. "with Video tape players, subject. 
St-ven rooms in the 125 year old the student. The project was dosed circuit TV, cassette "For instance, a self-t•ast wing of Brownson are un­funded by private donations from playbacks. slide viewers and an instructional course on dergoing drastic renovation in three outside sources. The arraY of stenciled materials." Irigonometric functions for a preparation for the newest ad­program is divided into two areas. Tht-'majority of these materials freshman taking calculus without dition to the university, a Learning a tutorial center and a media were contributed by General this background. The professor Ht-source Center. The entire eenter both under the direction of Electric and by a grant from the would teach the course on video operation is currently under the Paula Dawning. General Mills Foundation. tape or cassette and the student direction of Dr. Emil T. Hofman, The tutorial center will make Three levels of learning are eould then get from the center the dean of Freshman year, and tutors available for students in eovered in the center: materials to do the course on his should open "the first week of rwed. This will be done in the six background. review and advances own." explained Hofman. Also second semester." according to small meeting rooms. levels. Hofman explained the available will be a collection of llnfman. "Students in need of aid above 
The complex, six small meeting and beyond department tutoring rooms and one large room, will would be selected by their 
Iron Curtain refugee
"provide live tutoring for certain professors and counselors to at­situations." Hofman says. lt-nd these tutorials. " Hofman Jlofman insisted that it is the said. rt-sponsibility of every professor Tutors would be senior majors 
reunion is sought
and every department to provide rt-commended by the chairman of reasonable tutorial aid to its the department and will be The Office of Migration and seeking information on relatives of students: however some times rt-quired to keep in contact with the Hefugee Services of the United l I.S. Citizens who might be living more aid is necessary especially lt-acher of the course they tutor. States Catholic Conference has in Russia or other Iron Curtain for first and second semester This is funded by Inland-Ruerson asked the local diocesan office of t·ountries, and who wish to be freshman. {'orporation. Catholic Charities for assistance in reunited with their families in the 
United States, according to John F. Martin, Diocesan Director for Catholic Charities. 
"This information is sought," explained Martin, "in view of the recent unprecedented movement of persons from the U.S.S.R. to IsraeL and the slight easing of emigration restrictions from the Soviet Union." 
Persons in the Fort Wayne-South Bend Diocese, who have relatives in any Iron Curtain country, whom you wish to have join you here, are asked to compile the following facts: 
1l Name. address and citizen­ship of the sponsor in the United States: 
2l Name and address of the visa applicant: :Jl Has the visa applicant applied for an exit permit, or in any way informed the authorities that he is desirous of leaving? Information on any special equity in the particular case; e.g., relationship to the sponsor, 
health of the applicant, years of separation, etc. Complete information should be 
'sent to : Mr. John F. Martin, Diocesan Director, CATHOLIC
A Notre Dame student braves the 
CHARITIES, 919 Fairfield Avenue, 
test of the needle so that some 
Fort Wayne, Indiana-46802.
needy person might receive blood 
Martin urges anyone submitting 
Needle for the needy during the Red Cross-sponsored 
information to do so immediately,
blood drive. Students can still 
as there is a delegation of Soviet
donate blood from 9:00a.m. to 3:00 
religious leaders arriving in the 
p.m. today in Stepan Center. 
United States soon. 
Curfew prime topic 


SMC freshmen plan panel 
by Mary Egan professor at SMC, and member ot the student's understanding and Observer Staff Reporter the student affairs council; Judge thus their respect for the and Mrs. McNamera, members of regulations and hopefully would The St. Mary's freshman class . the parents council; and Mr. and help you, the members of the 
will hold a panel discussion on Mrs. Voll of South Bend, parents Board of Regents and the Parent's Sunday, December 3, at 3:00 p.in. picked at random who have two CounciL in forming opinions." in Carroll Hall. The possibility of freshman at St. Mary's. Kinney feels that this "states the 
waiving Freshman curfew with Class President Lisa Kinney sent basic purpose of the meeting." She 
parental permission for the second a letter on behalf of the freshman added, "We sincerely hope that all semester, will be discussed. class to all the members of the the members of the freshman class Four main objectives will be Board of Regents and the Parent's will attend the forum and that they 
covered at this session: Council which stated in part: will participate in the period of A complete explanation of the "We feel the need for an ex­open exchange and thus, through · present "hours" system will be change of opinions between those the expression of personal ideas,
given. Results and an explanation who make the rules and those who broaden the insight and viewpoint
of the questionaire now being are expected to abide by them. of the audience as a whole." taken by members of last year's "This exchange would facilitate freshman class will also be given. 
There will be a panel presen­
In the heart 
tation by selected members of the 
of downtown
Parent's Council and adults chosen to provide a cross-section of 
South Bend 
opinions of this issue. There will also be an open period during which the members of the audience may state opinions or ask questions of the panel. 

·Steaks ·Chops ·Chicke" ·Sea Food 
The members of the panel an 
pleasant
Dr. Bambinek, chemistry 
surroundings 
"KAMAAINA SEN I 0 R S For in­
CLOSED 
formation on jobs in 
MONDAYS 
Hawaii after graduation 
Dally & Sunday
write: Kamaaina 
11 am till 9 pm
Career Opportunity 
Saturday
Day, Box 9668, 

11 am till 10 pm Honolulu, HI 96820." 

high school texts on every possible applicable subject such as chemistry. physics, and French to aid the student." 
"When a student is confused the last thing he needs is another eollege text." said Hofman. 
Heview materials will include such things as video taped review sessions which could be run all day before a test. Problem sets and slide reviews of a class are possibilities also. 
The advanced level of the center hopes to offer complete teacherless courses for ambitious students. 
"Ideally, I hope this will develop into a place where a student might learn a course by himself for credit by test." said I;lofman. 
In addition to the matuials, capable staff will be available to assist users of the center. 
"Ultimately," said Hofman "I hope that all professors will con­sider the center a place to provide video tapes, cassettes, slides and printed rna terial to the students." 

::n: 'If' , ,. u:~ m: rn :: P::•m~w !_~.Q:l'*"·~il!.9l.~."-fENDS l'1 I= THilllt! ,..If! <MISHAWAKA AVE. AT 30TH. I!! 
The nationwide bestseller about the cops­by acopl . 
GEORGE C.
SCOTT STACY 
KUCB 
AROBERTCHARTOFF­IRWIN WINKLER PRODUCTION 
TBENEW
CDITUBIONS 
FulmlheNovelby JOSEPHWAMBAUGHIRl PANAVISIOH" 


DutantheVVeekend

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Dan Thornton Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
NEWS: 283-11715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler Executive Editor Advertising Manager 


Friday, December 1, 1972 
True journalism would never allow a submerged meaning to 
penetrate a news story, but it appears that such a thing has happened 
in the very pages of our hallowed campus Truth-Sheet. 

A 20% Mistake For on Wednesday last, our dear friend and neighbor, St. Mary's 
The Hall Life Fund has been allocated 
and a fair share of the $5100 was awarded 
unwisely. The five-man committee 
delegated by the Hall President's Council 
announced that over $1000 was given to 
halls for hall banquets, hall fellows 
nights, and various undefined hall ac­
tivities. 
Should be Self-Supporting 
The banquets, hall fellows nights, and hall activities can be supported by the hall if they utilize both their funds and opportunities wisely_ The money for these activities can be raised through food sales and hall taxes. The halls should not be dependent on outside forces to finance their activities. 
Money for Improvements 
The halls at Notre Dame are desperately in need of renovation. There are literally hundreds of things that can be done to the structures to make them more liveable. Yet the Hall Life Fund Committee failed to totally utilize their money in the area that it was most needed. They shook it off by saying that the Trustees are supplying $50,000 for hall 
Letters ... 

renovations, yet we all know that $150,000 couldn't start to give the halls on this campus the help that is necessary. Almost $150,000 was sunk into Badin to make it liveable over the past summer. 
Every cent that is available should be sent where it is most needed--into hall improvements, particularly when each hall is capable of funding their own events. The Hall Life Fund shouldn't be wasted on halls that connot support their own activities. 
Approximately 20 per cent of the Fund was poured into these mistakes. It's too bad that that small per cent has to mar the other 80 per cent of the Fund which was awarded with good intentions. 
The allocations for hall televisions pool tables, kitchen facilities and the like are a great move toward improving the liveability of the halls. But nonetheless one-fifth of an already depleted fund has been poured into areas which are not deserving. It's too bad that the com­mittee had to make that error. 
Jerry Lutkus 
about 45 minutes we talked, and as Dear Mr. Ruane. wP talked I became more and more 
For what it's worth I would like embarrassedfor the University and to make a few observations con-for myself. There just is no reason eerning your article in the Ob-why anyone should sleep in the sl'l'\'t'l' Nov. 17, 1972. "Fddhaus" when there are dorm 
In all sincerity, thi~ letter con-beds available. There is no ex­cerning Evelyn and the other art planation for these students not to student who took part in the art havt' had showers when there are competition sponsored by the Mid-showers in every every dorm. No American College Art Association moral human being (especially and hosted by the University those who pride themselves as so captured accurately the feeling greatly endowed with charity as which these students felt about the Christians l knowing that another insensitivity of this university's was unnecessarily cold, hungry, atmosphere. The conclusion ot Ute unclean would allow this to con­letter is as not my personal opinion rinue. I offered Evelyn the floor of but that of the students who had ·m.v room but that was reallv only a pl"rsonally experienced what I poor second to thecarpetedBadin r<'ported. Even the tone of the t•hapel. letter was exemplar of their Early Sunday morning I went to feelings when I spoke with them, the "Feldhaus" and there met though it drew also upon a wake of Hosa. who created the project, frustration with negatively another MSU woman and an MSU prejudicial treatment which I have guy. The latter two and Evelyn personally experienced as a had come to help us mount newcomer here. the project. I spoke at length 
I met Evelyn Saturday night in with all of them, but principally Badin Hall. At that time I was Hosa. Their recounting of the past <'ngaged in a conversation with a days at NO corrobated and ex­nun who is an RA there. Evelyn panded that which Evelyn had said approached us and asked where Saturday. The MSU guy <whose the chaJ)('l was. The nun pointed to name I don't remember) video­the chapel but said it was probably raped our whole conversation. locked. Evelyn then said that she Further, they had video-taped 
hoped she could sleep there, and much of what occurred during wf'nt on to explain what problems those da_ys. she and the others had had with It seems to me that it would have housing. The nun's calus in-been more just to them to have difference to this girl's problem contacted them before you con­rmllyembarrassedme. I offered to tinued publication of both your and go to the Huddle to oring some food my second hand information. Not back to Evelyn and the others. For everyone's name is listed in the 
daan••bury 
X: HEfiRJJ FROH PHReO 70/)/r(. fiE WfWTS Hf£' TO 
SPENO VACATION 
Of/CR. IN THe '/1/AH.r 7HIIIK1 .JVST 1116Hr 
60... , 
J: KNOW IJJ/1117 YOUR€ ()ONNt:J Sf11-· ''PINkOS ~R£ 8AO N&WSI ~ 8/JT f'IIREO:S 
O!FFERcNr r/?011 11057 OF 71/EH 7'/PES, He OFWN 0RINK5 BE'cR, IJNP HE UKtfS CflfJCK .8£R.RY l?f:!'CORfJS. 
I 

directory. Would it not have been simple to ask Dr. Fern for Rosa's address and her phone number. If vour sincere effort it was to un­(:over what really did happen to these students would it have been necessary to talk with them? The report which you have of what went on is now third hand <by my letter) and secondhand (by Dr. fprn 's allegationsl. I think in all fairness you should try to contact Hnsa. I know that she will corroborate what I have said and will be able to tell you whatever sh<' and the others didn't tell me as regards Dr. Fern's statement. 
llow can you claim so patently that the letter is based upon doc­tored facts when you have only asked the man for whom these facts are negatively slanted, if :here is any bases for the letter? Before you allow yourself the pleasure of picking apart my secondhand information and claim :hat which you write (secondhand also l is the truth shouldn't you make more a half-hearted effort at finding the truth? I would suggest that if you really think that I have overreacted to facts taken at their face value; why don't you check into it for yourself? Rosa Patino exists and you can find her. To f'nd. let me quote you: "It doesn't take much to make a phone call to confirm something." 
Very Sincerely, Nancy Daniels Law· .J23 Lewis Hall 
College. announced that after long years of maintaing the tradition of 
shooing any number of confused and frustrated Domers from their 
hallowed halls at 2 AM, and midnight on weekdays, they were finally 
prepared to open up their sacred lobbies for use (or abuse, I might 
addl at all times. 
But alas, there appears to be a delay. 
Forgotten somewhere in the shuffle of this burning issue, was a lock, 
necessary for the ultimate security needed in such a venture, to be 
installed on a door in LeMans. The necessity of this lock is of such 
importance that no other dorm can open its lobbies until the lock 
arrives and is installed, on or about December 14-. 
Now. Sue Welte, the new St. Mary's Student Body President, missed 
the point entirely when she commented, regarding this momentous 
decision. "There is no reason why the other halls should have to 
eontinue waiting because of the one door in LeMans." 
What she failed to realize, and I fear that she is not alone, is that 
there is a hidden meaning in this seemingly unreasonable delay. 
What is implied here is that there is still a chance to save this holy 
institution from the evils of such a curse as opening its lobbies to, of all 
things, men. 
What is suggested here, though discreetly, is that a good, up­
standing, Christian lady or gentleman (one whose mind has not been 
warped by those perpetrators of vice running rampant in the very 
Student Government of this once-respectable institution) should en­
deavor to rape <in the classical sense, meaning to steal) the new lock 
\\'hen it arrives and consequently further delay the onslaught of such 
immoral activity. 
Such a rape of the lock will be beneficial to the entire College 
Community for it will prevent future rapes (and you know what sense I 
meanl and other shameful activities, that are a mere certainty with 
an open-lobby policy. 
Imagine the very implication of open lobbies! Countless thousands 
of young men and ladies have had their honor protected and their 
morals left unscathed thanks to the ever-present security policeman 
flashing the lights on and off at 1:50 AM. Why, even embracing 
eouples have been forcibly separated by these voluminous vanguards 
of virginity! 
But now there will be no protection! Nothing to guard against the 
most sinful vice that will surely follow such an outrageous proposal. l 
can only thank the Almighty that they have made it so easy for sen­
sible people to prevent this from happening. 
What must be done is simple: An organization called P.R.U.D.E. 
lPreventers.of theHapaciousUsage of Dormitory Entranceways) shall 
be formed to save the campus from the ultimate moral decay that will 
no doubt be caused by the enactment of this policy. 
One by one, the locks on the doors in each of the halls must be sabotoged so that as soon as the institution is prepared to succumb to the evils of Satan and open up the lobbies, some mini-Savior can come along. destroy (rape) a lock, and again snatch the College from the clutches of Lucifer. 
As long as St. Mary's College remains stable enough to refrain from giving in to Miss Welte's ridiculous notion that one missing lock in LeMans should not hold up three dormitories, the job of the 
P.R.U.D.E. organization will be relatively easy. 
However. should the Administration of St. Mary's College suddenly l'ome to the realization that three dormitories, which are totally prepared to open their lobbies on a 24 hour basis, should not be made to suffer the consequences resulting from a missing lock in a fourth dorm. then the job of our organization is liable to become quite a bit more difficut and St. Mary's Administration will likely suffer numerous accusations of possessing a meager amount of common sense; and perhaps even a trace of intelligence. 
Columnist Note: 
AIate breaking news story states that St. Mary's Administration has gone the route of the cursed and accepted Miss Welte's suggestion. Apparently, there will be a "Chastity--chain" placed on the door in question in LeMans. 
The lobbies are now open 24 hours for all types of rapacious ac­tivities. This saddens me. For in an era of co-residential dormitories and open visitation at most schools, the St. Mary's administration has taken the giant step of making its public lobbies, public. The con­sequences could be astronomical. Within a decade or two, they will succumb, no doubt, to the pressures of society and open their dor­mitories to visitation by male creatures on days other than Sunday. 
Is there no end to this madness? 

tarry l:rudeau 
OR~H 
.r .:17JST 
lJII-IIV/1.

1</JTION/JL./ZIIIG? 
I I ~ 
~ 
1­
the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Ann Therese Darin Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Night Editor: Joe Abell Ass't Night Editor: Maria Ga!!agher Layout: Bill Brink, Marlene Z!oza Day Editor: Bill Sohn Typists: Dave Rust, Phil Orscheln, Buffet, Steve 
Roper, Harry Chung, Dianne Chermiside Night Controller: Robert S. Barringer 


Dpinian Storm Clouds 
mikebaum 
Novt>mbt>r :!t -1!{('ad this with background music. Mozart's 
Bc•quit>m would be nic{'. l · 
That culture we have come to know as peculiar to the USA is dying, and there are dements of it I shall miss. "Oh, now, don't exaggerate, Mike.'' Why not'? Th storm winds are blowing, and you can watch the leaves fall. 
I wat eh{'done fall tonight. It was a television show called "Maude", 
the ultra-relevant spin~ff of "All in the Family". 
Now attend me.Ourheroin (sic), Maude, has been informed that she 
is pregnant. "With child", they used to say, but this has embarrassing 
Pthical consequences today. <Maude, of course, is a middle-aged 
housekeeper. peacably married to some other stereotype.) From here 
it is a merry trip through assorted cute conversations. Maude thinks 
probably, maybe, her husband wants an heir. He assumes she wants a 
l'hild. They are both wrong. <The child -to-be does not seem to have an 
advocate.) 
After a bit of byplay fpaturing her husband, who decides to have a 
vasectomy. and then chickens out <I didn't know that they used those 
:erms on network TV but it's not inherently bad), Maude has this soul­
s{'arching dimacticscene with him in their room 
Now attend me. They are trying to decide, if you please, whether or 
not Maude should have the child. It suddenly occurs to them that 
n{'ifher wants a child, and therefore the good lady should not have the 
baby. Indeed. How relevant. How piercing, how insightful. They 
should burn. 
Don't forget, please that I am prejudiced. I consider abortion to be 
P\'il. (You are familiar with the concept of evil? It's not mentioned 
much. l This, I submit, is beside the point. No matter what the ethical 
sf at us of abortion. it is in fact a question today, and it follows that this 
program was wrong. Perhaps even evil. 
The {'fhical question concerns human life, the altar before which we 
all bend knee. We of the conservative lunatic Iring{' maintain that 
abortion destroys an innocent human's life. I believe the term 
"murd{'r" has been applied. 
W{' would say something like, "Gee, it's a crying shame that a life is 
going to intrude on your existence, Oh Maude and Spouse, and it's no 
wonder you want to remove such a source of irritation, but remember, 
in my state they hang people for things like that." 
Of course the fiends incarnate on the other side would hash together 
som{' sort of rationalization about there being no life until the child 
quickens. or until the twelth month, or something. 
Th{' point is that this is a legitimate ethical question today. Human 
lif{', quite literally, depends upon this question, and the fact that the 
quest ion {'Xists at all is a storm signal for our culture. 
SoW{' are sitting in judgement upon the existence of human life, and 
what do some <'nt{'rprisingscript writers do? They take the question, 
and (after having the gall to opt for the most dangerous side of the 
argum{'nf l dramatize it on some .. God-forsaken network sitcom. 
(I low far has the Hequiem gotten? Are you up to the "Dies Ira{'')") 
This. I submit, is irresponsible. It is maleficent. If we still believed 
in Lucifer. he would be the obvious ghost-writer. 
Tra-la. tra-la. Is this the route of damnation Not highlighted with 
Faustian drama but with television chuckles? One of the most 
dangerous ethical theories of our time insinuated in to the snappy one 
lin{'rsof Archie Bunker's in laws? You may quarrel with my<•thics or 
my religion. but can you deny that this sort of propoganda for an 
unresolved question, and such a question, is frightening? 
Abort ion! On a Tuesday night situation comedy! 
I don't know who the writers were. I don't particularly care, though 
if they were burned it would provide a sort of gratifying sense of 
r{'fribution, but I fear that their product r{'f'kcts the death of 
something in this land that we can't afford to lose...Common Sen­
se.Yessir. though the marvels of modern electronics we can chart the 
winds of destruction without ever leaving the house. Sit back. Enjoy 
the music: ('onfutatis maledictis 
Flammis acribus addictis, 
Voca me cum benedictis ... 


mikedavi• 

In the magnificent environment in which we live, the school seems to be struck with a malady common to college campuses. Perhaps you can write it off to a backlash from the torrid years from '66-'70 or even to the fact that the problems that caused those years have been solved. ~ut, that doesn't seem to be it. It resembles more a creepmg, paralyzing disease which cripples people when they get a little bit frustrated. Lack of visible results in the past years has created a deep bond among potential student ~ctivists. What is this bond-this disease that is spoken of'? It IS apathy. 
Apathy. Go.d, how m~my times is that going to be thrown ~p at students before the realization is met that the apathetic student is the happy student? How many times is that trite little word going to be used to accuse when guilt is admitte~? Everyone is so sick of hearing it, but no one wants to cure It. We ait just want to ignore it. At the present moment, this syndrome has brought the student mov~ment for respon­sibility to a screeching halt. Although 1t was never very evident at Notre Dame, there was a seething undercurrent of dissatisfaction with the alienation of students by ad­ministrators. Now-there is nothing. No feeling, no alienation. just a huge vacuum. The void is apathy. . . · 
Well. what happens if students choose to VOICe their 

opinions? They are greeted with the frightening thought of 
Fahter Hesburgh's infamous fifteen minute policy. We can't 
demonstrate, so let's hang up our hats. We are aftaid, but 
fear didn't seem to be the intention of Father Hesburgh's 
ultimatum. Instead, it is a plea not to demonstrate, but to 
direct our dissatisfaction through the channels provided. 
Although the channels at N.D. are numerous, no one seems to 
be using them. The theory of democracy is to channel the revolutionary instinct of man into action. Here at Notre Dame. this valuable tool lays idle. Next question. Why does it lay idle? Because the people who used it in the past did not use it for the students. Thev 
Friday, December 1, 1972 the observer 
7 


" ...as for my next campaign promise ... " 
Baa!Js Razzbury "Uh, Yeah" 

Ed Ellis 

My friend The Acute and Benign Observer of the Obvious was marveling recently that Notre Dame was such a unique place to go to school. 
I. of course, not being much of an observer of anything, queried, "How so, T.A.B.O.O.'?" 
"Wdl," began the sage, "This very twelve month affords us ample opportunity to peruse the verities of Truth in this most ameliorative of states of l'ollecti ve Christianity.'' 
I noted, as will all true lovers of the monogram, that W{' are indeed the greatest university in the eountry among those that are at least nominally affiliated with the Catholic faith. "We are certainly academically superior to Boston College, St. Joseph's College, St. Francis College of Allentown, and Biscayne College of Miami, Florida, in most respects," I agreed amiably, returning to my Law School Applicatons. 
"But. man, like there's some really great stuff h{'re." T A.B.O.O. returned, perhaps sensing my deepest inner malaise (I always try to give him eredit for observing the obvious, if nothing else). 
"Uh. yeah," quothe your narrator, returning to his law applications. 
"Now, really, man, I've been thinking lately ... " 
"Uh. yeah." 
" ...abOut how lucky we are to be here ... " 
"Uh, yeah." Return to law ... 
" ... and to have met each other in such a truly 
Christian environment where we have the guidance of such fine Christian gentlement as our professors 
The Weapans Shap The Happiness of Apathy 
used it to play poiitical games and to advance their own cause and self image. Some of that still remains, but most of it has been replaced by apathy. The students, in a mild manner. voiced their protest to these political games by disdaining the rhetoric and promises of so many and electing the man who laughed and scorned the people in power and how they used it. So, everyone laughed and scorned the bigwigs of this school and elected the King. 
The people who took things seriously before this year misused their duty to the students. Hence, the students looked at anyone who took things seriously as a "poohbah". They elected a joke and, in the aftermath, are seeing what it brings. Now that the joke has to take things seriously, it is a hard thing to do. Doing it they are, but doing not to the fullest of its potential. And what is worse, no one cares or questions or bothers. We are all mired in the muck of apathy. 
What can we do? Now is the time to mobilize and bring the student back to the front as the main concern of the university. No more merger games, no more discrimination against the women, no more administration-faculty power games. We are the product that this vast m~chine tu~ns out and what has happened is that we are losmg the nght to determine how we turn out. The answer is to get out and get involved in something. Jf you don't like something, join it and try to change it. What is looking us straight in the eye is the chance to start taking things seriously and doing a lot about it. Everyone has their guards down because the students, the great question askers, are silent. Silence to the answer makers is consent. How can anyone consent to what our world is today with the vast milieu of crises that we must face each day each day just to continue as a civilization? No, silence isnot consent to this, but it is an answer. It says "We don't care". Our chance as human beings to affect something is reaching out for us. Let's grab it wit~ love and help people live the lives that are possible here. This can be a good place if we make it that way. 
and rectors and Fr. Burtchaell and Fr. Hesburgh 
and ... " 
"Uh, for Chrissake, yeah." Return ... 
" ... and all the great people associated with this University." 
At this point. I recognized the lead~ff batter in T .A.B.O.O.'s Sevenfold Happy Instances of Truth, a Jine-!Jp I alway considered somewhat truncated by its lack of a pitcher and catcher and thus, a ballgame. Temporarily abandoning hissinkingship of law applicatons, your narrator resolved to pitch to the seven. 
"We have the greatest informal association of ~upporters in the world, the subway alums," began the wise man. "Their allegiance to us is made perfect by our sterling football record over the past decades." 
"And our Alumni Association is the greatest and most generous in the world," continued the Scribe. "It links the ivory tower of the University to the real world of business and finance, and provides us with much of the University's endowment and budget." 
"And our faculty! Wow! What a great bunch of • guys. They are Christians in the true sense! Why, I got a three-eight last semster.'' 
"And yeah," I interjected, hesitantly, during a lull in the stream of consciousness. "Well, does ... " 
"And then there's the guys around here. They're great. How many schools can say their student body stilll drinks this much? How many students still go on panty raids? !low many throw hot dogs at hockey games? And did you see the guy that hit the cheerleader in the face with the orange at the Miami game? What an arm!" 
"Well, there are some good qualities about our people, you know," quothe your humble marrator, wishing to defend the average lover~f-the­monogram 's. interity bit. 
"Oh. you bet!" continued T.A.B.O.O. "You know, the Notre Dame is not the only place to do things like that, but do you realize that it's the only really gn•at university where it happens'?" 
"Uh, yeah." 
"And now we even have girls to \help out!" 
At this point I thought it wise to cause somf 
hesitation in my friend's enthusiasm. "But for 
C'rissake there's only 300 of 'em. That don't help 
anybody!" 
"Yeah."returned the sage, "But you know that a school is never really ready for coeducation until it has it. And since we really haven't had it, we can't be ready yet. So we shouldn't get it. Same goes for coed dorms and parietal hours." 
"I see," I observered, becomin_g more ac­eustomed bv the minute to the skills used in the observation·of the obvious. Returning to my law ... 
"And the Administrators around here are of the 
utmost sobriety and extrospection. Think of all the 
committees they must sit on all day. Such a con­
fused mess I don't see how thev make it work." 
"Simple, " I said, "the most powerful body on campus is the Corby Hall Breakfast Table." 
"Oh. really?" 
"Uh. yeah." 
My T .A.B.O.O. turned finally to University 
Community as a whole, saving his most .·on­
demning praise for that collectivity. "Just think," 
he orated, "the whole of what we have mentioned . 
makes up nothing more or less than this great 
university." 
And so· the Seven Happy Instances of Truth for 
this particular great Christian Community were 
spoken. As The Acute and Benign Observer of the 
Obvious finished, one of my roomates walked in 
very drunkenly, and immediately arranged him"elf 
in a heap on the floor. 
-



the observer Friday, December 1, 1972
8 
•

of peep shows, dirty mov1es and other things 
<CI 1972 New York Times john corry New York -The thing about SODOM IS bodies in what is supposed to be a sex act. times a week. 
THAT IT IS SO SOLEMN. Here is a girl. Hard-core movies do not simulate Together with a few girls, the customers She is wearing a gray nightgown, and she is anything, although they pretend a great at Caesar's Retreat sit in the lounge. The dancing on a stage. She is doing something deal. 
girls watch television, and the customers like a hula, and she is bouncing her hips. The men at the Fun City Theater watched watch the girls, who wear what are called 

There is baby fat on them. a hard-core movie with a bad sound track. 
togas, but are really brief skirts attached to Thirty men watch her. They are They sat through all of it, even the end, two pieces of material that often cover their distinguished by absolutely nothing, and when a narrator said with cheerful sin­
breasts. they could be the first 30 men off a BMT cerity: 

A customer is summoned from the lounge local in Brooklyn. They are however, "That was Donna, folks, doing a by a small electronic voice that calls him bv 

Pnormously polite. marvelous job in a very difficult part. And his first name. Then he goes to the desk and The men are at a live sex show in the Fun that was Frieda, AI , John, Billie and Herb, is asked if he prefers a particular girl. 
City Theater on West 42nd street. They had Tanya and Mark, all doing a wonderful job. 
If he does not, a girl is assigned to him,arrived at it one at a time and they had Let's give them a big hand for the mar­Lisa, say who is Danish, or Sunday, who is occupied the front row first, sitting one seat velous job-a great little cast in a great little 22, has a son who is 8, and is from Georgia.

apart until that was no longer possible, and movie." he said. 
Sunday says she is writing a book about her 

then taking seats on the aisle. At the San Francisco Theater on "She's driving everyone away." life and times. That's the way men go to sex shows and Broadway 14 men were watching a hard­How long has she been here," Hodas 
The girl leads the customer into a small 

dirty movies in New York. In fact, they core movie, it was not about much of asked. 
room. He undresses, and the girl suggests a 

have been doing it now for several years. anything. "Just today," the colleague said. 
sauna and shower and offers to fetch a glass

The merchandising of sex, or perhaps of Then, from a closed booth at the back of "So get rid of her," Hodas said. of champagne.only a fantasy about it, is a growing the Theater, a young woman emerged. The Outside the door to Hodas's office, a man 
The customer takes his sauna and shower, 

business, and the shows, the movies and the booth had a sign on it, suggesting a body was interviewing a pretty girl. 
and if he chooses it, the girl may soap him 

massage parlors proliferate. massage for $10. The young young man "Now you understand," he was actually down or dry him off. 
At live sex shows and dirty movies, no one I went through the audience saying to each saying, "That this will just be a bit part in The customer returns to the small room 
willingly sits next to anyone else. Everyone \ man: the movie." and stretches out on the massage table. The seems afraid of meeting a pervert, or "Sir, would you care for a massage?" Not all the entreprenuers in Sodom haVe 
girl slips the bolt in the door, turns and 

perhaps of being thought of as one, and only No one said yes; no one seemed to say problems. Robert Scharaga, for instance, smiles. For a nervous man, it can be a oriental men, especially the Japanese, are much of anything, or even to look at the says he has none at all. Scharaga owns a 
moment of truth with Lisa or Sunday.

different. They often arrive in groups young woman. Everyone seemed to be massage parlor that is not any old massage Being a respectable place, Caesar's although they are mostly solemn, too. having a reverie. parlor; it is Caesar's Retreat on East 46th 
Retreat is a member of the Better Business 

So, at the Fun City Theater, the girl is Tickets to most dirty movies, which are Street. Bureau and the East Side Chamber of dancing to recorded rock music, and the often followed by live sex shows, cost $3. Most massage parlors are tacky, offering 
Commerce. There are massage parlors not 

mPn are staring. She more or less dances 'fbere are also peep shows, flickering reels not much more than a girl taking several nearly so refined, of course, and some of out of the nightgown until she is nude. of one minute, which costs only 25 cents. swipes with rubbing alcohol and a nude man 
them are run in storefronts. 

Frequently, she throws herself to the stage They are both soft and hard core, although who is supine on a table. There is not much For example, there is a place on Eighthand writhes on it. When she does, the men most are soft. style to any of it, and once the few swipes 
Avenue. A young man stands outside acting past the front row lean to one side The king of the peep show business in New have been taken, the man ordinarily asks as a steerer. Inside, there are three girls.
or another to watch. York is Martin Hodas, who has a beard and the girl to perform a sexual act. 
Two are plump and black; the third is thin 

When it is over the girl picks up her a deep voice. Caesar's Retreat is different. One may and white. She wears a wig and cheap black 
nightgown and walks down the aisle. Some Hodas was sitting with his associates in an spend $20. there for a half-hour massage by underwear. Her name is Wendy.
of the men get up, uncertain whether there office on 42nd Street, complaining about the one girl, which is program A or $100. for A man who walks in pays $10. He is told to is more. The girl walks by, and ever so way the police were trying to shut down his what is supposed to be "100 glorious minutes 
go into a small partitioned room and get

slightly several men back away from her. business. In fact, he was clutching a sheaf with a harem of three beautiful, pleasing undressed. There is a massage table in No one says a word, although they watch her of summonses. slave girls," which is program E. thPre with a wrinkled sheet. There is a shelf 
intently. "Every day I walk in I don't know if I'm in Or , a customer may take something like with a bottle of rubbing alcohol and a can of 
In fact, there is more: a dirty movie. business or not," Hodas said. "There's no one girl from program A and two from talcum powder. There is nothing else. Dirty movies are either hard core or soft law prohibiting a peep show, and so the cops Program B and indulge his own fantasies. About 20 customers a day use the small core. Soft-core movies offer what is called charge me with anything." One man, for instance, would rent a room room. Arter paying the first $10., they all simulated sex, which means they do not A colleague swept into the office. at Ceasar's Retreat for a whole day. He 
pay more, usually $20., for some sexual act. 

truly show a sex act, only the backs of "You got to get that ugly pig out of here," would arrive at noon and engage one girl WC'ndy. who is 24, has been working 12until she was through at 7 p.m., and then hours a day in the massage parlors sinceanother girl until she was through at 2 or 3 last spring. Before that, she had been a 
a.m. Scharaga would send out for sand­waitress, and before that she had worked atwiches.
huck finn russian style 
an automobile parts store. The says the jobSharaga, a stocky man with a beard and a in the massagP parlor is just like any othersmile, was once a stockbroker at Walston & job she has had, except that it pays more. In

theodore shabad Co. Wall Street palled on him, however, and a good week she will make $300.Scharaga opened Caesar's Retreat. He is 
Other than that a great many of them are(C) 1972 New York Times News Service the Pike County speech of Huck Finn by now planning to open another one in mid­separated or divorced, the girls who work in using some of Russia's many regional town, and is thinking of something like a massage parlors do not seem to share much 

dialects. nationwide franchise.
• Sometime this last summer an in the way of a common background.
"The result would have been very ar­At Caesar's Retreat, the customers pay at
Arrican Geology student from Nigeria and Celia, for example, is 22. Her husband 
an 11-year old flaxen-haired Moscow tificial and would not have brought us closer the front desk. This massage parlor is neat died of an overdose of heroin, and she grew and efficient, a triumph for both eroticism
schoolboy were floating down the broad to the spirit of the novel," he said. up in a welfare family. Peggy, who is also Dnieper River on a raft. Daneliya had to be concerned not only and technology. Music is piped in 22, worked as a clerk for a Wall Street 
with translation problems but also with the everywhere.
Under the watchful eye of Georgi N. broker. She says she will stay in the Daneli~a. who at 42 is one of the younger Russian accent of some of his actors. Felix The place is nearly always full, and the massage parlor until she has saved a few Immokuede, the geology student at customers nearly always wait. Sharaga
generation of Soviet movie directors, the thousand dollars; then she will leave. The 
says that perhaps three quarters of his
two' were re-enacting a new screen version Moscow's Lumumba University, plays Jim girls do not talk about sex, or perhaps even 
customers have made at least one previous
of a gr,eat American classic, Mark Twain's with a Nigerian-accented mixture of seem to relish it much. Certainly they see a
visit to Caesar's retreat, and that some are
"The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn." English and Russian. great deal of it, and perhaps this changes
·regulars, going in two, three and even four
The wide-screen color production, which The Duke, one of two traveling com­them. 
is now being completed on a Mosfilm sound panions picked up by Jim and Huck along stage here, attempts to hew close to the the way, is acted by another Georgian,AMERICANA of the novel, which is at least Vakhtang Kikabidze, a singer with a <IS well known in this country as it is in the Georgian band, who speaks an accented United States. Russian. The other companion, the King, is 
A recent visit to Mosfilm, arranged by the acted by Yevgeny Leonov, a popularNovosti Press Agency, provided some of the Moscow character actor, speaking Russian flavor of the Soviet movie-maker's attempts like a Russian. to reproduce the early 19th century life of 
The director said both the roles of Jim andthe Mississippi Valley and to cope with a the Duke would be spoken by other actors in wide range of linguistic problems in the final production, which will be given itsbringing the adventure-filled frontier novel sound track after the shooting is completed. 
to the screen. 

Not much talking was done in the sceneThe wide variety of American dialects being shot at the time of the studio visit. The that was so successfully sustained by Mark crew was working with great care on a briefTwaill has been leveled to a simple, silent episode in which Huck's father, acolloquial Russian in the 86-page screenplay down-and-out drunkard, is to beprepared by Daneliya, who is a Georgian, rehabilitated by a Judge Thatcher and istogether with Viktoriya Tokareva. 
tucked away for the night in the judge'sDaneliya said he had ruled out any at­beautiful spare room.
tempts to simulate the Missouri Negro Vladimir P. Basov, 49, who is a well­dialect used by Jim, the runaway slave, or 

known director in his own right and enjoys -~~~-/'~~-::;.-~: ~ doing acting stints for Daneliya, played .( .....,. Huck's father as "In the night some time he got powerful thirsty and climb out on the
j 

porch-roof and slid down a stanchion and :traded his new coat for a jug of forty-rod." Three takes were shot by Vadim I. Yusov, "?· at 43 one of the Soviet Union's best cameramen, as Basov, varying the pace of
./ 

the action and improvising minor details, rose disheveled and in a stupor from the fine poster bed and clambered out the window. 
Daneliya said he was heeding Twain's admonition that "persons attempting to find a motive in this narrative will be prosecuted; persons attempting to find a moral in it will be banished; persons at­tempting to find a plot in it will be shot." 
"I am letting the story speak (or itself," the director said. 
w1nn1e the pooh 

ND-SMC Children's Theatre 
Winnie the Pooh will be produced

present WINNIE THE POOH: 
at the following times:

Winnie the Pooh <Tom Fehren­
Saturday, Dec. 2:

bacher) talks to his favorite 
10:00 am, 2:00pm

friends Piglet <Kathy Paul), 
Sunday, Dec. 3:

Kanga <Kathy Rink) and Roo 
2:00 pm, 7:00 pm

<Lynda Ruocco) in the upcoming 
At the Little Theatre at St. Mary's

production 
College. 


Friday, December 1, 1972 the observer 
9 





catch bull at four: to life! 
If there's one thing Cat Stevens knows, it's life. Life in nearly all its forms, frustrations. joys, emotions, loves. He's proved it when he teased firecats and of­fered tea to tillermen and mona boned a jakon. 
In the first three albums <nobody counts those Tom Jones-type releases of earlier times anymore), he strove to reach people where they want to be reached. His method: a barely controlled, emotion-filled voice that sang of lost Lady D' Arbanvilles and the excitements of going on a pop star's first tour. His instruments were simple: a Spanish guitar or a piano, a background bass and occasional drums, and of course that remarkably peasant-like voice of his. 
He sang of things we all wonder about of things we all feel pangs of nostalgia and pleasant memories from, of things we all fantasize about. His song of the breaking away from home of a son, and the desperate clingings on both sides touch college-age students especially. His gentle portrait of dawn breaking, so simple and inviting. refresh among an age of Black Sabbaths and Led Zepplins. His moon­shadow follows everybody and everybody follows his peace train. 
But with Catch Bull At Four, Cat Stevens makes a few breaks with his former style. Like the picture on the comer, he takes the bull of life by the horns and lives it to the fullest. as opposed to mournfully remem­bering past joys or mischievious future fantasies. Nearly every song on the album takes this view of life, its ups, downs and mediocres, and shouts it to the world. 
The living starts on the first side. "Sit­

ting" is a fascinating study of frustration. 
His pleading voice tells of his need to know 
where he's going, but the only goal he sees is 
nowhere: 
Just keep on pushing hard boy, try as you 

may 
You're going to wind up where you started 

from 
Musically. the tempo keeps trying to 
quicken, yet once it gets going, it falls back 
again. pointing up the frustration in 
Steven's words. The final scream of "Oh!" 
leaves a profound effect on the listener. 
"The Boy With A Moon And Star On His 

Head" is a nice little adult fairy tale, one 
that simply tells of a rose-tinted fantasy that 
everyone would like to happen to them at 
some time. Flashes of musical motives that 
never fullfill their potential is an annoying 
feature at first, but later, you come to 
realize that this kind of interspersed music, 
like raisins in a fruitcake, is quite effective 
and pleasing. The simple acoustic guitar 
accompaniment completes the Mother 
Goose effect. 
Skipping past a couple of songs, "Can't 

Keep It In" expresses the fullness of the 
kind of life in Cat Stevens' music. His cries 
of "I can't keep it in!" and "I can't lock it 
away" bring to mind feelings everybody's 
known at least once--that sheer joy and 
exuberance when one has fallen in love with 
life. 
Sat. & Sun. 3:00 5:20 7:30 9:50 Mon. ·Fri. 2:00 4:25 6:55 9:25 
NOW! Open 8:30 a.m. Last Feature 
10:20 p.m. 
,...Sywuliada The waydillylind­
The way...,diad. 
pr-llon A TEJIIENCE YOUNG Film 
From Colun>bla Picturn 

I'm up for your love, love heats by blood Blood spins by head, and my head falls in love. 
That's just the way it happens, too. And when it does happen, the feelings you get on the side are the same he sings about in the rest of the song: 
Why worry when it's warm over here. You got so much to say, say what you mean Mean what you're thinking and think anything. why not? 
And why not, exactly. Stevens doesn't care; he's living his life his way and it comes through in the song. The frenetic piano and guitar add to the festive, joyful mood, and show that he really "can't keep it in." 
Side Two's best are the first and the last. The first, "18th Avenue," made it to the Top 40 a couple of months ago, and is a distur­bing song, one that is made more haunting through the use of a very warm electric piano and a vaguely evil-hinting background organ. The song tells of a nightmare in a city of familiar, yet strangely unfamiliar people, and the tone of Stevens' voice suggests more than a bit of terrror in his flight fown the "18th Avenue" and his subsequent relief upon arrival at the saving escape of the airport. The middle instrumental is particularly effective, potraying his excitement and terror as he remembers a night of "fire and glory" and realizes that his memory isn't as private as he thought. The tension built up by the string arrangement near the end duplicates frighteningly the tension felt when salvation is near. 
The last, "Ruins", is perhaps the best on 
the album. A subtle dichotomy of tyric 
theme and musical theme show a bitterness 
more fully realized than in many actors' 
faces in a dramatic play. 

A quiet description of a town that is ut­
terly destitute is presented, with only a 
simple guitar accompanyment. Suddenly, 
the speaker meets a friend he hasn't seen in 
a while, and tells him that it is "So nice to 
see you back in this town again." It's a slow 
realization, but the town is not desolate as 
the result of a bombing or fire, but is 
desolate of feeling, of hope. In difference 
has undermined it. And that friendly 
greeting is as full of bitterness as it could be 
in its musical tone. You're just one of those 
who didn't care and left, Stevens' voice 
accuses the friend, and you're not really 
worthy to call.this your town. "Just keep on 
walking down the street, keep your distance 
from the piople you meet," he warns him. 
Finally, he directs a plea to..th~e-li steiiinller.:.___________._.,...___________________....
1111 

POPOV VODKA RON QUERIDA$ 11 


RUM 4 
.

HOLlO A Y SPECIAL!! 
39 TOWN & RIVER
~~~R~~G 3fifth COUNTRY PARK
$ 
LIQUOR

Brandy & Blended WhiskeyllliQUQR 
. lown '& Country Shpg Ct 2411 Mish. Ave. 
IUHIIIIHilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllmlllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Catch Bull At Four Cat Stevens 
A&M SP 4365 SS.98 list 

liiiiiJIIJIIIIIUIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIUIUIUIIIIIIl 'Don't stop that sun to shine; it's not yours or mine... no." 
Unfortunately, a few new techniques tried by the Cat don't come off too well. An at­tempt at more of a rock sound, "Freezing Steel." sounds pretentious and out of place on a record of life and emotion. The tune is catchy. but it just doesn't fit the mood set by the album and the kind of style Cat Stevens does well. The song right after it, "0 Caritas," is a curious work that reminds one of Spanish seranading in a dark cafe, but onece again, it doesn't really fit Cat Stevens. 
Done by the so-called "C.S. Choir," the massive overdubbing and latin lyrics seem more like a deliberate attempt to be "Imaginative" than a truly innovative idea. All the parts of Stevens' voice seem to be trying to out-do each other, and the effect is 
.-~~~~~~~-

RoGERS 
Optical 
HONEY-BEE 'Earthy & Elegant" Christmas Gifts 
c·ustom Made Candles Hanging Sand Candles Candle Supplies Bethel Pike Pottery 


2210 Misheweke Ave. South !lend, Ind. 46615 Ph. 288-4334 
Owners-Bee & John Klempay Just off Ironwood Dr. 
USC DAY PARTY!! 
Celebrate before & after the game 
with these specials! o3 fifth
$1 
Boone's Farm 
Apple & Strawberry 
BIG 
VICTORY 
SPECIAL 
ON 
BUDWEISER! 
The price is so great we can't 
advertise it !! 
......

-----~------· 
*Keg Beer *Wine cellar 
lost. 
Another victim of overproduction is "Angelsea," a basically exciting song that tries to be too exciting. The fault is one thing: the synthesizer. Stevens has used a synthesizer before, usually for a background tone. and it comes off well. But here, the synthesizer is brought to the fore, and it sounds almost naked in its artificial presence among the more "natural" in­struments of guitar and drums. Too bad. 
Cat Stevens is a curiosity among pop stars in that he can't be properly classified. He touches on nearly every phase of music in general and through this wide range of sources. he portrays something very close to everybody: life. And if nothing else, Catch Bull At Four does just that: live. 




the observer Friday, December 1, 1972
10 




24 hour Lafortune proposal to be reviewed next week 
by Tom Drape Staff Reporter 

A proposal to keep LaFortune open 24 hOUI"i a day will he sub­mitted to the administration as a result of last night's meeting of the Committee for LaFortune. A decision is expected next week. If approved LaFortune will remain open on a trial basis between Dec. 15 and Dec. 21. Shipp L utkus Caruso 


Authors of the proposal, Dave Caruso. Jerry Lutkus, and Dan service at the Huddle during exam Shipp submitted it to the com­week is also in the proposal. mittee and received unanimous Eventual 24 hours service by the approval. Huddle in conjuction with 
Included within the proposal LaFortune remains to be were stipulations providing for de'term ined. sole entrance by the main door, Sub-committees were appointed office security, c Iosing of the to study possible renovations of the Hathskellar. and employment of a different areas of the center, as night manager. preferably a grad­well as proposals by sophomore student security officer. LaFor­architecture students. Their tune's central location and proposals are expected after availablility for night student were Christmas. Senior architects will also cited. then begin their designs in early 
A formal request for 24 hour February. 

Profs report on water jet_ 
SC'veral research prqjects C'ssent ial to the evehtual dC'velopment of an "underwater jC't'' are described in a recent progress report of the University of Notre Dame's "Project ThC'mis." 
According to Dr. Edward W. Jprger. associate dean of the College of Engineering and project manager, the basic aim of the project has been to increase the speed of underwater craft by IParning ways to reduce the "drag," or friction as the vessel moves through the water, and increase thrust by developing a jet engine. 
Project Themis is sponsored by the U.S. Office of Naval Research. Originally designed to establish promising centers of engineering rC'search as well as to provide basic research for the Navy, the project is funded at about $130,000 pC'r year. 
Major research findings highlighted in the progress report include: 
--The theoretical possibility of constructing a steam-jet engine for underwater use was established in research headed by Dr. K. T. Yang. chairman of the Depart­mPnt of AC'rospace and Mechanical l':ngineering and Dr. Jerome Novotny, professor in the depart­m<'nt. The system is, on paper, capable of doubling current speeds, and basic design criteria for the system have been Pstablished. 
--In the next year, Yang's group will study ways to reduce noise in the jets, and will look at heat­transfer problems created by releasing steam into the chillv ocean waters. In addition, they will begin testing their theoretical concepts in a "water tunnel" now under construction. 

--Two research projects are aimed at reducing the speed­retarding drag which is a special problem for water craft moving at high speeds. One effort, headed by Dr. Nicholas Sylvester, assistant professor of chemical engineering, investigated some long-chain chemicals called polymers known to make water more "slippery." Sylvester studied the possibility of using such polymers to coat submarines. 
-A second effort included a 
computer program to study the 
dfects of a gas film in reducing 
drag between water and a metal 
plate. Drs. Victor W. Nee and 
Vincent P. Goddard, associate 
professors of aerospace and 
mechanical engineering, were able 
to use the program to set rates for 
the gas flow and reduce the drag 
by a maximum amount. 

·--A major effort of the Dynamical Systems Group headed by Dr. L. H. N. Lee, professor of aerospace and mechanical Pngineering, is to provide more exact knowledge on the causes of structural and material failures. Specifically, the group studied the Alvin, a small underwater research vessel, to gain basic information in the effect of ocean pressure on various structures ancl materials. This group includes Drs. Teoman Airman and H. C. Huang. associate professors of aerospace and mechanical Pngineering and Dr. Cary Mak, associate professor of civil mgineering. 
Students charged with shoplifting 
by Connie Greiwe Staff Reporter 

Mr. William E. Voor Jr., St. Joseph County Prosecutor, has contacted Mr. Arthur N. Pears, Notre Dame director of security, concerning shoplifting cases that have come to his office involving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Students. 
Three such shoplifting cases have occured in the last two weeks. 
Voor stated that there has been a misconception by students con­cerning the relativeness of the law. "Immediately after the event happens, everyone and his brother is down here asking to be ex­cused," stated Voor. 
The prosecutor's office will prosecute all apprehensions of shoplifting cases with no par­tiality. A student will be prosecuted like any citizen of St. Joseph County. "It seems more important when a student is caught," stated Voor. "More parents and families have come down here insisting that they cannot afford to have a record." 
At this time of increased Christmas shopping, shoplifting has also increased. Voor stated that the merchants of South Bend must be protected. "I just want to give fair warning," continued Voor, "we're going to prosecute them to the full extent. We have got to stop it." 
Manhattan's 
KINGLY COMBO 
A knit sleeveless sweater and a matching sport shirt, color coordinated. Both machine washable and Manhattan quality. In popular colors, gift boxed. 

The Madrigal Singers will add to the medieval atmosphere in P'Laughlin Foyer .this weekend, entertaining at the English Yule Feast sponsored by the St. Mary's Fine Arts department. 
South Bend's Newest 

"THE RED DOOR CLUB 
BEER * WINE * LIQUOR
Come down and watch the game Saturday 
Memberships Available 
ANB 
OPEN 11 am to 3om 
MODELS Earn money, gain experience with professiona I agency. Ask to receive our free News Letters. GIBSON MODEL AGENCY.'833 So. 27the St. So. Bend, Ind. 46615 Ph. 287-8600 

$20 

APPAREL GIFTS TO PLEASE A MAN, ANY MAN 
If you have a man to please this year, dad, brother, buddy, boyfriend, etc. we're offering a great selection of apparel gifts: sweaters, scarfs, gloves, ties, jackets, belts, stacks, sportcoats, hats and metch, much more. Every item istopquality...giftquality. Stop and browse. 
NEW TERMS: 
Buy now, pay: 
One-third in June; 
One-third in July; 
One-third in August. 

you pay no service or carrying 

charge of any kind. ON 1HE CAMPUS •.• NOTRE DAME 
~~~~~ ~~~ 
Snowmobiles \\\'4 

p 8 ant ~ Beauty ag ~of.\0 Sk;;n e~ g ~eco' "JD Jazz Band Sorts 
Santa Claus (children's photo available) 
See it all at the: 

MICHIANA SNOWSHOW 
Friday December 8 5-1 0 pm Saturday 

December 9 10 am-10 pm Sunday December 10 io am -10 pm 
Admissions Adult $1.50
ACC 

Students $1.00 Under 12 $.50 


~ 

NO cage staff pools· talent for opener with Michigan 
by Vic Dorr interchangeable, seven-man first Orr's roster includes senior co­unit in the game, and will go with captains Henry Wilmore and Ken Last December. when Digger much the same arrangement Brady. Wilmore. who has led Phelps was in his first year as tomorrow afternoon. Michigan in scoring over the past Notre Dame's head basketball two se<J.sons, is a two-time All­coach. the Irish cagers opened Two sophomore guards --Dwight American, and will see time in the their season at home, against the Clay <who averaged 16.3 ppg. as a backcourt. as well as at his guard 
Michigan Wolverines. Phelps' freshman) and Tom Varga (8.8) -­position this season. squad stuck with the taller and will handle the point position of Brady, a 6-10 center, was the Big 
stronger Wolves during the first ND's 1-3-1 offense. A third soph, Ten's leading percentage shooter period. but faded during the second flashy Gary Brokaw (28.3) will as a sophomore, and the Wolves half and lost. 101-83. alternate with junior Gary Novak wl're forced to play without him for 
!<'rank McLaughlin, one of <19.5l and senior Don Silinski (6.0) their first dozen games in '71. Phelps' two assistant coaches, on the wings, and sophomores Pete Joining Brady on the front line spent much of last season at the C'rottv (14.3) and John Shumate are Russell and John Lockard 
helm of the freshman team, and <22.4 ·in 70-71) will hold down the or Ernie Johnson, a pair of for­his squad also opened at home high and low post positions. wards who combined for 26 points against the Wolverines. The Irish Defensively. the ND squad will and 19 rebounds a game last year. l"rosh fared no better than their show the Wolverines plenty of The fifth man in the Michigan varsity counterparts, losing 89-77. pressing, trapping combinations, lineup will be sophomore guard 
Tomorrow, Phelps, McLaughlin, and the Irish defense will be sorely Joe Johnson. and Dick DiBiaso, the third tested by the Wolverines, who were Tomorrow's game is an im­assistant. will pool all of last year's picked by Sports Illustrated as the portant one for both teams. Beyond 
talent when their Irish open the thirteenth-best team in the nation. the usual first-game significance, 1972-73 cage season at Michigan's Like the Irish, the Wolverines it is important for the Wolverines Crisler Arena. A freak recruiting will be bolstered by blue-chip because they are eyeing the Big break left ND without a jayvee talent from last season's first-year Ten crown, and will be seeking to squad this season, but the core of team. For Coach Johnny Orr, that improve the porous defense and 
last year's freshman team will join talent will come mainly from loose ball handling 07 turnovers a six returning lettermen for this Campanella <Campy> Russell -­gamel which cost them ten games game. the first of twenty-six for the Cazzie's brother --a 6-8 forward in 1971. Irish. who was the mainstay of last The Irish. who's ambitions don't 
Phelps' ran his squad through ~·ear's unbeaten freshman unit. include any conference titles, Iheir last pre-season tune-up H.ussell averaged a point-a­would simply like to win. Monday night, in a game against minute last season, and this year "Our goal is improving on last the Australian Nationals. ND he will be playing with a varsity ~·ear'f 6-20 record," said Digger 
streaked to a 60-17 lead in that that--despite 1971-2's 14-10 mark-­Phelps. "We have experience contest. and coasted into an 88-63 is a legitimate contender for the coming back in certain areas, but triumph. The Irish coaches used an Big Ten title. Beyond Russell, at the same time we'll have four 
Swimmers open season tonight 
Graham. a junior, holds both
1!!72 Irish team that posted a 7-5
The well-balanced Irish record. the best mark since the 7-3 individual medley records for theswimming team opens its 1972-1973 Notre Dame swimmers thanks to a

season of 1966-1967. Among the

season with the ninth annual Notre returning three superb effort at the Motor CityDanw Invitational Relays tonight lettermen are previous "Most Valuable" Invitational meet last year, whenat 7:00 in the Rockne Memorial he set new standards in both the
swimmers. seniors John Sherk and 

pool. The Irish will host Gt>ne Krathaus, and sophomore 200 and the 400 yard events. JimValparaiso, Wayne State, Oakland, .Jim Kane. Also among the Fischer and Ed Strack, alsoBradley. and a powerhouse squad returning lettermen is individual juniors. could find their ways to thefrom Drury College of Springfield, medley specialist Ed Graham, the record board this season in the
l\1 (). 
winner of last year's Most Im­breatstroke and butterfly events, Coach Dennis Stark's tankmen proved award. · respectively. are the defending champions, but Stark starts the season sporting Sophomore Jim Kane will be protecting their title against five varsity record holders and a looking toward another big season 
Drury, which lost to Notre Dame few more swimmers who could with the Irish. He set records in the by three points in the last relay a easily put their names on the 100 and 200 yard freestyle events year ago will be a difficult task. t·ecord boards before the year last year and joined with 
But this year's Irish swimmers ends. Krathaus holds the Irish Krathaus, Sherk, and fellow have the potential to explode. The sophomore Jim Meagher in the
record in the 50 freestyle and was 

~·outh-oriented teams "Qf the past on last year's record setting 400 record setting freestyle relay. three vears have at last matured Stark is also blessed with a corps
free relay. Sherk, who seems to be 

into a· balanced unit. This year's of five divers, an area where the
100 percent recovered after three 

squad, comprised of eight seniors, Irish have been weak in the past
seasons of illness and surgery,

six juniors. seven sophomores and two seasons. Senior Chuck Mosca, 
joined Krathaus in last year's record setting freestyle relay and

six freshmen. hopes to retain its junior Bill Hopkins, and also holds individual records in the
grip on the championship trophy sophomores Dan Makielski and for at least one more year. 500 and 1000 freestyle events and Chris Payne have been joined at 
the deep end of the pool by a veryNine lettermen return from the the 100 butterfly. 
capable freshman, Mark Foster. Senior letterman John Balthrop can be counted on to bolster the
leers at Wisconsin 

Irish strength at any number of positions. He has seen activity in
concluded. "They were losing

(continued from page 12) both the backstroke and individual 
their confidence out there, so we 

medley events. Chris Mecca is also Mark Steinborn is also had to do something." 
Pxpected to give the Irish somequestionable. The senior defen­
Eddie Bumbacco, John Noble, 

added depth in the 200 butterfly,seman suffered a head injury in and Ray DeLorenzi will skate while senior Captain George Block the first game against Minnesota 
together on the first line against 

and Mark Wilcox fill in theand did not start skating until 
Wisconsin. Convoy will center on 

distance freestyle and sprintsyesterday. Bill Nyrop also has 
the second line, with Larry 

respectively. Bill McEvoy, abeen down with the flu, but both 
Israelson on left wing and either 

breatstroker. rounds out the group could be ready for action. 
Williams or Keating on the right. 

of rourth year men.
The third unit will have prior 
Joe con­

The changes in the forward lines Junior O'Conner, a 
college transfer Mike Dunphy 

sistent scorer in the distanceare coming along well. "Certain 
returning to center between Paul 

events last season, is looking for alines, Conroy's in particular, were Regan and Ric Schafer. 
spot in the sprints to complimentgetting snake-bitten about putting his distance abilities. Johnthe puck in the goal," Smith Cleaver, also a junior, will fill in 
GnhendersGms GA Avg. Sa,·es 

the backstroke area, which has
Individual Statistics Kronholm ............. 6 22 3.6i 186 PlayfrGms G A Pts P·lll Cathcart ............. 2 14 7.0 61 been weakened by the loss of Bob Bumbacco. VI ......8 II 9 20 H Thompson <knee surgery).
ND Totals ............. 8 36 4.5 247
Williams. VI . . .8 9 8 17 IJ.t6 

Opp. Totals ........... 8 33 4.13 243 Sophomores Jim Baclawski and
Regan, c ..8 6 7 13 6-12 

Jack Farrell will give Notre Dame
WCHA
Nyrop. d . . .8 o 6 6 7·14 Currv. d.. . .8 0 5 5 12·24 T GF GA

w L Pts. invaluable depth in the individual I 15 24 22
Grefn, d ....8 0 5 5 3-6 Michigan Stall!' . . . 4 I medley. while Tim Belke hopes to Schafer, d. .8 2 2 4 ~24 Denwr ............ 4 0 0 12 18 7 
help out in the breatstroke.
North Dakota ..... 5 3 0 12 41 34 Steinborn. d . . . ...7 I I 2 0.0 Wisconsin ......... 5 I 0 10 34 21 Another sophomore, Mike Wolz, Conrov. c ..........R (I 2 2 4-11 Michigan Tt>Ch .... 4 0 0 8 24 12 returns in the distance events. 
Maison. VI .•........4 I I 2 0.0 Notre Dame ....... 3 3 0 8 19 24 
Noblc.c. ..4 I 2 3 1-Z 

Minnrsota ......... I 4 I 5 20 22 A strong group of freshmen,
Lal'lllln. d.......... 8 0 I I I·~ DeLorenzi, w.......7 I 0 I ~13 Colorado Collrg4!' .. I 5 0 2 26 35 including breaststrokers Paul Cunha. c ..........4 0 I I 1·2 Minn.·Duluth ...... l 5 0 2 15 28 Brian McCorry,Israelson. w........3 I 0 I 1·2 Miclligan .......... I 7 0 2. 23 51 Carry and and Keating. w.........8 · 0 0 0 3·6 
freestyler Drew Wallach, will look 
Dunphy, w .........8 0 0 0 2-4 SATURDAY'S RESULTS for places in the starting line-up.Bonk. d.............6 0 0 0 11-0 Minnrsota 7. Notrr Dainc 1 
Emerging on top of the tough six­
Novitzkl, w .........6 0 0 0 0-0 Wisconsin 7, Michigan 2 

Tardani. w ........6 0 0 0 11-0 North Dakota 7, Michigan State I team field in this weekend's relays Byt>rs. w ........... I 8 0 e 0.0 Bm.1cn Univrrsily i, Michigan State I is a must if the Irish swimmers are NO Totals ........8 33 50 1!3 64-142 Boston \Jnlvl'n.ity i, Minn.·Duluth 2 
going to make good their pre­
Opp. Totals ......8 36 57 t3 711-148 Michigan Tl'Ch 6. Bowling Green 4 Powrr Play Goals-NO U ol 48 (25 Likl' SUperior State it Air f'Prl't' 3 season dream of being the win­per ct•nt); Opp. 14 of 44 (31.8 per Cl'nt) New Jlampshire 4. Ohio Slate 3 ( ot) ningest swimming squad in Notre Shorthand<'~~ Goals-NO 3; Opp. I 
Dame's history. 

John Shumate, here battling an aggressive Australian defense, will be making his varsity debut tomorrow against Michigan. 
kids who haven't played varsity That's our big goal, considering 
ball before as well as two freshmen the competition on our schedule." and a walk-on. On paper, we should Tomorrow, Phelps' Irish can be better than last year. We should take one step towards their goal, 
improve every position on the and it may turn out to be a big step, floor ... 
at that. "Now, if we can go above .500 Tip-off time for the game is set at this year. that'll be tremendous. 2:00p.m. <e.s.t.l. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
Ride needed to Colorado or New
LOST AND FOUND 
Mexico for Christmas vacation. Call Steve, 1059.

Lost . 14 K gold graduation charm Reward! 5464. 
NOTICES Lost: .Suede belt to a winter coat, light brown. Call Steve, 1059. 
NOTICE: lnterhall hockey 

begins this Sunday, December 3 Lost: One Woman's ring at st. at the ACC ice rink. At 11:30 Mary's. If found, call KAYO 2JJ. 
Sunday night, THE GRACE 2274. 
TOWER GORILLAS play THE HOLY CROSS HALL HOGS. Lost: one bracelet watch and one 
Spectators welcome! '73 SMC class ring (MBCl on Death March. Phone 4726 or 4770. 
Gals, earn $10 -$20 for 2 hours work from your home. For details Found: '74 white gold class ring. 
call 272-8375. · Call 8118. Identify. EUROPE PERSONALS Lowest rates to all European cities! Daily flights from N.Y., 
BASNER: What's your surprise? Chicago, D.C., Philadelphia and This is mine. Happy reading! others. British Overseas Airways Love, Mary Pat. 
Corp. Call Clark, 283·8810, for details. 

Soupy, To the best 4·H queen that ever Pandora's Books has gift ideas for was a roommate. It's only a yourself or others . S.B. Ave at movie. Happiest of birthdays. N.D. Ave. The dishwasher 
ND-SMC VOLUNTEERS AT MARY AGNES JANCA: "You're LOGAN CENTER: Saturday 
18 tomorrow, what can l say? Recreation on Dec. 2nd will begin Have fun in Michigan this at 12:00 not the usual 9:00. weekend!!! Happy Birthday 
from M.E., Kovac, Karen, Christmas Loans! Not due until Ronnie, Sally, Lena, and the rest January 19th! Morrissey Loan of the old lunchtable gang. Fund. Open until Dec. 13th, Monday-Friday 11:15-12:15. JANCA: Being 18 means being LaFortune Basement. able to say "sorry" to the day editor. 
FINAL SCORE (1966) NOTRE DAME 51 WANTED 

SOUTHERN CAL 0 "Never again will I be beaten by a Men and women students needed 
Notre Dame team" to help get YWCA Home for girls 
John McKay ready to open. Some jobs are: painting bunk beds, cleaning 
FOR SALE floors, moving furniture, etc. Supplies are at the home; just 
Former Navy Officer has drop in and work. 520 North 
Uniforms for sale; call John 935­Lafayette. See Jay or JoAnn 
5214 Plymouth Powell, or phone 233-9491 and ask for Carol Wilken. 
Noise makers tor sale. Send name and telephone number to Wanted: ambitious person or 
Box 685 ND, Indiana 46556. couple interested in earning good part-time income. For interview 
'63 Ford galaxy, radio, power call Mr. Wells -272-8375. 
steer, heated, runs good. Kevin 

288·1184". 1 or 2 riders to Orange Bowl. Leaving Indianapolis Dec. 29. 
For Sale -Craig S-track Must share expenses. Call Jim 
player and assorted tapes. Ca • 259-9173. 
Mike at 272-2977 or 3881 leave 

number. Need ride West on l-80 to LaSalle, Ill. on Dec. 2 and back on Dec. 3. 
CHEECH AND CHONG Call 8038. 
Ticket for sale, call George 232· 5633. 

Need apartment for one for next semester. Preferably close to Deadline for all classified ads is campus. and CHEAP. Call Rick 1: oo pm the day before 8284, Chris 4964 or Larry.Paul publication. All ads must be 8276. placed in person and must be 
prepaid. 
.... 


... 
12 the observer Friday, December 1, 1972 
ND meets SC with roles reversed 

by Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 
The phrase "classic series" is an often-used and frequently misused term in the sporting world. But, when talking about the annual game between Notre Dame and Southern California, the phrase. is most appropriate. 
The series, which Notre Dame leads, 25-14-4, has a long and colorful history, but its best years have been since Ara Parseghian came to South Bend in 1964. In every meeting since then between th~ two collegiate powers, one team has been unbeaten and victory or defeat meant the dif­ference between a national championship and disap­pointment. 
The Irish assured themselves of the top spot in the wire service polls by trouncing the Trojans, 51­0, in 1966. Southern Cal was voted the nation's top team in 1967 but ties against Notre Dame in '68 and '69 cost the Trojans repeat titles. 
U.S.C. robbed the Irish of a pair of championships, though, upsetting Notre Dame in the final games of the '64 and '70 seasons. 
Once again, a national cham­pionship hangs on the outcome of Saturday afternoon's 4 o'clock match-up in the Los Angeles Coliseum and, this time, it's the Irish who hope to knock Southern Cal out of the top spot. 
Notre Dame brings an 8-1 record into the season finale against the Trojans, unbeaten in ten games, and are listed as 14-point un­derdogs. Coach John McKay and Southern Cal seem to hold all the cards-an offense that averages 38 points a game, a defense yielding only 9.4 ppg, and perhaps the finest aggregation a ball players in the land. But Irish coach Ara Par­seghian isn't conceding anything. 

"Southern Cal is undoubledly one of the finest earns in the country. They have great talent both offensively and defensively. On paper, they look great-but they have to win on the field." 
The Trojans offensive machine is truly awesome. Directed by quarterback Mike Rae, who has completed 56 percent of his passes, the S.C. attack has been ac­counting for over 258 yards rushing and 182 yards passing. 
McKay calls his offensive line of center Dave Brown (229), guards Allan Graf <243) and Mike Ryan !252l, tackles Pete Adams (256) and Steve Riley (261) and tight end Charles Young <227) "the best we've ever had at Southern Cal". 
Operating behind that awesome foward wall, the Trojans boast a trio of outstanding running backs, Anthony Davis, the team's leading ground gainer with 935 yards, Rod McNeill and Sam "Bam" Cun­ningham. 
When Southern Cal goes to the air, Hae can look to a variety of talented pass catchers. J .K. McKay, coach John's son, leads the club with 23 receptions, just ahead ofYoung's21 grabs. McKay alternates at split end with the fleet Edesel Garrison, who has made 11 catches this fall, averaging 25.9 yards on each. Garrison played a major role in the Trojans 28-14 upset of the Irish last year, catching ap pair of touch­down passes and setting up a third score with a long reception. 
Flanker Lynn Swann is another long-distance receiving threat. The junior has hauled in 20 passes and averages 20.5 yards per catch. Davis is also a potential receiver, having 12 receptions to his credit. 
The Tojans haven't won their last 14 games on offense alone, however. With likes of tackles Jeff 

The Irish Eye 

:::=:=:=:=:::======================================================================::========================= Footba II picks 
This will be the last week of major action during the 1972 ·college football season, although a few clubs have games slated for next Satur­day, but as far as this picks column is concerned, the year should have ended two weeks ago. 
The Irish Eye correctly predicted the outcome of all 15 games listed for the weekend of November 18th, including the upset of the week, Missouri over Iowa State, marking the first week of perfect selections. That would have been one to quit on. 
But the most recent choices more closely followed the season's trend, six of the ten picks proving correct, with one game ending in a tie. There was some consolation, however, in again naming the upset of the week: Ohio State over Michigan. 
This year has been an exciting one for college football fans and the final weekend of the season promises to provide its fair share of thrills. 
Notre Dame and U.S.C. highlight this Saturday's games, meeting in the Los Angeles Coliseum. The Irish, who haven't beaten Southern Cal since 1966 and have had unbeaten records marred by John McKay's club the past two seasons, will be looking to pull of an upset and knock the undefeated Trojans from the number one spot in the polls. 
Alabama, the only other team in the country with a perfect record will risk its number two rating against another upset-minded club, the Auburn Tigers, in Tuscaloosa. 
Elsewhere, Army and Navy will fight their annual mini-war in Philadelphia, while Oklahoma and Oklahoma State and Georgia and Georgia Tech clash for state championships. 
Here are the presumed winners: 

Navy over Army-The Middies want to avenge last year's bitter, 24-23 loss. 
Boston College over Holy Cross-The Eagles, shamed by last week's drubbing at the hands of Massachusetts, will bounce back and thrash their arch-rivals, the Crusaders. 
Oklahoma over Oklahoma State--The Sooners have their eye on the top spot in the polls. 
L.S.U. over Tulane--Surfing the Green Wave, the Tigers should hang a defeat on Tulane. l<,lorida over Miami <Fla.)-The Gators have improved tremendously this fall. 
Tennessee over Vanderbilt-The Vols have already posted their seventh straight season with eight or rtiore victories (the only team in the country to do sol and a win over the Commodores will leave Bill Battle's club with a 9-2 record.
" Texas Christian over S.M.U.-Since losing to N.D., things haven't gone well for T.C.U., but the end up with a winning season by beating the Mustangs. Georgia over Georgia Tech-It ought to be a honey of a ball game, even if the Yellow jackets do end up on the short end of the score. Alabama over Auburn-Playing on their home turf will give the Tide a much needed edge against a tough Tiger team. Upset of the Week: Notre Dame over U.S.C.-On paper, the Trojans look unbeatable, but so did the Irish squads of '70 and '71 that watched underdog S.C. teams spoil unbeaten records. The Trojans have knocked off undefeated T'~otre Dame teams five times and the Irish are due to turn the tables. 
Last Two Weeks: 15 of 15 •. 1000; 6 of 10, 1 Tie .650 Season's Pet.: 130 of 175, 2 ties .749 

.... 
Winans and John Grant, linebackers Rich Wood and Charles Anthony, safety Artimus Parker and end Dale Mitchell, Southern Cal has one of the toughest defenses in the country. 
Wood is the top individual per­former on that unit, leading in tackles with 106 and tied for the top spot in interceptions with five, along with Parker. 
Parseghian is well aware that 
his club will have to be at its best 
both offensively and defenively if it 
is to spring a major upset. 

"'We've had great games with Southern Cal through the years but it will take a super defensive effort on our part and consistent offense to match them," Parseghian said. 
Notre Dame has been headed defensively by linebacker Jim O'Malley, the club's leader in tackles with 114, co-captain and All-American tackle Greg Marx and halfback Mike Townsend, who has intercepted eight passes. The Irish have given up only 11.9 points per game but will be hard pressed to stop the Tojans' pro-style at­tack. 
Offensively, Notre Dame has shown that it can move the ball, averaging 431 yards in total of­fense. only 10 yards less than S.C., and almost 29 points per game. But the Irish have had a tendency to commit costly turnovers, losing 20 fumbles and having 11 passes intercepted. 
The Irish will be at full strenth offensively, with backs John Cieszkowski and Art Best ready to return to action, and Eric Penick, Andy Huff, Darryll Dewan and Gary Diminick all in top condition. Penick is the team's leading rusher, with 703 yards, the best Irish total since Bob Gladieux gained 713 in 1968. 

Pass catchers Willie Townsend <22 receptions l and Mike Creaney (14 l are in great shape, as is sophomore Tom Clements, the man who makes the Irish offense run. Clements has completed 50 percent of his passes this fall and rushed for 356 yards. 
The Irish, although underdogs, are healthy, well-prepared and loose. The pressure is on the favored the Trojans to stay on top. And, as John McKay and Ara Parseghian have pointed out­records are meaningless tomorrow afternoon. 
It may well be another classic game in a classic series. 

Irish icers face tough Wisconsin 
by Stan Vrankar 

Madison's Dane County Coliseum houses some of the wildest fans in collegiate hockey, along with one of the WCHA's finest sextets. Notre Dame, with three defeats in its last four games, gets the unwelcome task of going up against both when they open a four-point weekend series with the Badgers tonight. 
Wisconsin swept four games from the Irish last season and dominates the overall series with ten victories in a dozen meetings. Coach Bob Johnson returns 14 lettermen from last year's 27-10-1 squad, including the league's top two goaltenders, junior Jim Makey and sophomore Dick Perkins. 
Perkins finished first among conference netminders last season wih a 2.3 goals-against average in seven games, and currently is second in the league to Denver's Ron Grahame. Makey did the bulk of the Wisconsin netminding a year ago (3.3 GA avg. and almost 30 saves a game in 21 contests), but has not played up to his potential yet this season, allowing six goals per contest. 
"Wisconsin has probably the best goaltending in the WCHA," commented Irish coach "Lefty" Smith. "However, each does have weaknesses. Perkins has some eye problems and seems to have dif­ficulty judging depth on long shots, while Makey can be beaten from in close." 
The revamped Notre Dame offense will be hard put to work on the Badger goalkeepers, though, as Wisconsin's defense has per­mitted less than 25 shots a game. Sophomore Bob Lundeen (13 goals, 25 points last year) is the top returnee on defense, despite msssing the first four games of the this season with a stomach ailment. 
An even bigger job is in store for the Notre Dame defensemen and goalie Mark Kronholm. The Badgers are averaging almost 46 shots on their opposition, con­necting for 7.5 goals per contest en route to seven wins in their first eight games. 
Wisconsin's forward strength lies in their centers. "We'll definitely have to control their centers, Gary Winchester, Dennis Olmstead, and Lloyd Bentley," Smith was quick to note. "All of them are excellent skaters, have the speed that can lead drives back 
at you quickly, and they all can put 
the puck in the net." 
Winchester put on a show for ND fans last year when he blasted home the first four Badger scores in a 5-3 win. The junior from Calgary tops his team in scoring with 17 points on six goals and 11 assists. Freshman Olmstead, son of former NHL great Bert Olm­stead, has 13 points, as does soph Dean Talafous <seven goals, six assists l, who swings between defense and center. Bentley leads all goal scorers with eight, specializing in hard drives from the point. 
"We'll definitely have to try and take the game to Wisconsin early," Smith added. "They're so strong on offense that will need 100 per­cent hustle by everyone. We really have to bounce back after the last two weekends." 
Irish winger Ian Williams, presently tied for tenth among conference scorers, may see only limited action due to a pulled leg muscle. "If he's able, Williams will play only in power-play situations," said Smith. Soph D'Arcy Keating will fill in for the Toronto junior. 
(continued on page 11 






