On The Inside 
Jobs for college grads ... pages 8-9 Hofman and big band.S •.. page 11 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 15 Thursday, September 28, 1972 
Kersten: Ceremonial Figurehead 
Reactions to Provost Position 
Only one student so far has nominated himself for the office of student provost. Junior Dennis Etienne. a native of Tell City, Indiana, and executive coordinator for Kersten's ad­ministration has applied for the job. 
His application will be examined by a special Ad-Hoc Committee composed of Student Body President Kersten and Executive Coordinator Etienne. In a special announcement over ND student radio Tuesday evening, Kersten, an­nounced he would limit his duties to strictly ceremonial ones. 
The Office of Student Provost will regulate student government and handle most of the decision-making until Kersten's term expires April 1. According to the Prime Mover, the student provost will "heretofore receive carte blanche authority to assume the powers invested in my by the Prime Mover's Mover." 
With "Pomp and Circumstance" blaring in the background. the King also announced his vice­president, Ed Grey has resigned effective April 
1. Grey, interviewed in student government offices yesterday, explained that while he has not formally tendered his resignation yet, he plans to do so after the Senate has approved the new constitution. 
Kersten will remain a ceremonial figurehead concerning himself with "only such empty functions as presenting the flag at football games. escorting Miss America on campus, and meeting with the Board of Trustees." Student Provost will have all other responsibility. 
General campus reactions 
Reaction on campus to the Kersten an­nouncement ranged from amazement to apprehension. 
Questionned on what advice he would give the student provost, Rev. James Burtchaell, Notre Dame's first provost, replied, "My middle name is spelled: Tunstead." 
Fr. Burtchaell added that his reaction to the Kersten bombshell was "Two provosts are sometimes better than one." 
Reached after the Tuesday evening broadcast, H-Man <Etienne) commented, "I guess that now I won't have to sleep at the King's feet any more." 
Informed sources in the student government foresee no problem in H-Man's elevation as student provost. They report that within two weeks because of the cooperation and new at­mosphere which has been shown the Kersten Administration by the students and the ad­ministration, that all of the present student government cabinet members will be asked to resign. 

H-Man (Dennis Etienne), the only student nominee for student provost position " ...won't have to sleep at the King's feet anymore." 
Reportedly a meeting of the Student Senate will also be held next Wednesday to ratify the new student constitution. The Kersten ad­ministration feels that ratification of the new constitution, along with new faces in major student government jobs and the newly-created provost's post, are essential to a workable student government. 
H-Man similarly foresees no trouble because of his added duties. "The Kersten Ad­ministration is still in power," he proclaimed. 

SLC members hesitant 
"You <the students) haven't been sold out yet to the politicians and we don't intend to sell you out.. " he promised. 
Some of the newly-elected student SLC members are hesitant about the move. Fred Giuffrida, District 6 representative, wondered how the rest of the SLC would take to the seating 
.of H-Man, since Kersten is the legal holder of the seat. "It depends on how H-Man approaches the situation," he said. 

Asked how the change will alter the structure of Student Government, Giuffrida commented that things probably won't change much since nothing is happening in Student Government anyway. 
Floyd Kezele, Towers representative in his third term, thinks Kersten did "the right thing." 
"Kersten did the only thing he could have done to preserve the government from the ranks of poohbahism. To come right out and resign would have been to abdicate to the poohbahs." 
Concerning H-Man himself, Kezele added, "I've worked with him and I think he will be as good a provost as the job itself could call for. I would hate to be in his shoes. In fact, if the playing of politics by our pseudo-campus politicians continues at the same rate as has existed these past couple of days, I could see myself resigning from the SLC and letting them play their little games." 
Kezele declined to name the "pseudo-campus politicians" to whiGh he was referring. Off-Campus Representative Jim Hunt declined comment on the creation of the Office of Provost. 
He was concerned, however, that the seating of 
H-Man not interfere with the business of the SLC. 

SLC rapport necessary 

"This is liable to create some problems, since the SLC has in the past refused this sort of voting. We must develop some rapport with all sectors of the SLC if we are even to get off the ground. It will clearly not do to hassle over this sort of thing." 
Other members of the SLC and the Student Senate who were questionned fear the problems which will be caused by the passage or non­passage of the proposed student constitution. 
"I thought the King was a friend to all illerate rabble like myself," said Anthony Abowd, District IV SLC representative. "But, now, I think the best way to treat any of the statements Kersten makes, especially with regard to his prejudice against the Observer, is by ignoring them. I think he's playing the same game other so-called poohbahs are no matter how much he disguises it." 
Abowd feels that effective use of the present structures in student governemnt are adequate. "When you get one or two people not willing to work, you have to have alternatives as the King proposed," he added. 
According to the sophomore representative, the SLC may, scat ·IH-ma11 if he is the top spokesman for student government. 
L. Franklin Devine and Matt Cavanaugh, the other two SLC representatives, could not be reached for comment. 



Students Express Views about Kersten 
by Jim Gresser Observer Staff Reporter 
Bob Kersten's recent statement creating the post of student provost and indicting The Obst'rver staff aroused must student reac­tion. 
Most of the reaction centered around his indictment of The Observer , One Badin resident said she agreed with Kersten because. "I don't believe a person with any real responsibility in student government should have a position on the editorial board of a student newspaper .It goes against all the principles of news journalism." Junior Ann Payne concurred and emphasized the need for an "unbiased" newspaper. 
Senior Bob Esser said he "didn't think Kersterl was right about if you work for The Observer you shouldn't be able to hold an elected office ... I find nothing wrong with it." 
Chris Fahey, a freshman pre-med, con­siders it "bad that The Observer told you who to vote for on the SLC," and that "they are the only ones who got the publicity." 
Referring to theSLCcandidates also on the Observer, Bob Schoen, a sophomore pre-med, "thought that it was kind of fishy that they supported themselves. I question their motives." 


Freshman Steve Bond said, "one political faction shouldn•t dominate student govern­ment as those on The Observer do. However if those guys are the only ones who'll get off their dead ends and get involved, then they deserve it." 
Objecting to Kersten's remark on John Abowd as "uncalled for and unjustified," Gred Stidham, editor of The Scholastic, did see potential problems with the new SLC members as far as "time and conflicting responsibility are concerned." He added that he didn't see how a person could do both jobs effectively but said "they were elected by the students regardless of what Kersten says." 
On the creation of the office of student provost, most reaction was negative. Vicki Vach pointed out that Kersten "could have worked if he wanted to." Celeste Ponteri thought "he shouldn't have run if he didn't want to keep the job." Esser commented "the idea of a student provost is pointless." 
Overall reactions to Kersten's ~tatement were numerous. Stidham said that Kersten's statement "follows the patterns of what he has been saying right along." Fahey said he thought Kersten was "awfully funny. He's a joke but the joke is over." Sophomore Joe Rubsam also felt that it was funny but added that "Kersten belongs in the Convo doing his act not in the student government offices." 
Sharon Komansinski, a Badin resident said that the speech "showed how much of a joke student government is." Carol Laskie, also of Badin, added that she didn't "think many of the kids wanted to do anything about it." 
Jim LaBelle, a senior in economics, feels that "the guy quite typically misrepresents every thing going on on the campus because he can't understand it." 
headquarters 
by Bill Betz 

The McGovern campaign has started at Notre Dame and is headed by Floyd Kezele, a Notre Dame senior and newly appointed regional director of Youth For McGovern. 
Kezele will head a 500-member student organization in it's efforts to put the senator' from South Dakota in the White: House come November. Notre Dame's students for McGovern, whO base them­selves in the Tom Dooley Room of La l<'ortune Student Center, are sponsored by the state's campaign headquarters. 
McGovern's student s).lpporters have brought their candidate's ease to the people· by canvasing door to door an'd establishing hall t·aptains in every dorrn· on caxpus. i\1 ('ramer, co-chuirman of the Notre Dame students for McGovern. said that he hoped such personal campaigning would in­erease in~rest in the cag~paigri and make the issues clear: 
In addition to canvasing the halls, the McGovern people plan to show two films within the next the sale of silk-screen postel'S and tee-shirts will provide a source of revenue for the student-funded organization. 
three  weeks:  one  on  President  
Nixon  and  one  on  Senator  
McGovern.  These,  coupled  with  

C'ramer also expects Senator Ted Kennedy and Congressman John Brademas to address the issues of the campaign during their percent and 24.6 percent un­dicided. The poll consisted of twelve halls and 2200 students, 98 percent of which had already registered to vote. 
Student consu1ner action at I. U. 
by J. Pt>ter Bt>r!"y 
Obst>rvt>r Staff Rt>porter 

The second National Conference on Student Consumer Action will be held October 10 to 13 at the University of Indiana campus in Bloomington. 
The theme o{ the conference is Students as Citiziens: 
Preparation for Responsible Action," centering around the belief that the subject students as consumers and responsible citiziens is of concern to govern­ment. academic, community, business and other student representatives. 
S<'n. Birch Bayh \D-Ind.), Betty l<'urness. well known authority in 
Co-ex dining tickets 
Sat. Sept. 30 Sun. Oct. 1 

Mon.  2  
Tues.  3  
Wed.  4  
Thurs.  5  

Fri. 6I Sat. 7 ; j Sun. 8 Tues. 10 
I! 
Fisher-Farley Cav-Sorin St. Ed's-BP 
Morrissey-He Flanner-Badin Grace-Walsh 
Howard (Old College)--Keenan Stanford-Di lion Lyons-Grace Pangborn-Fianner 
For Tickets see your Ha II Pres. 
For information contact: 
Skip Francesconi 1686 or Jim Clarke 1641 

Fresh1nan cookouts 
by Jim Eder Observer Starr Reporter 
Dean Emil T. Hofman yesterday 

announced that any freshman 
wishing to attend this week's 
''Friday-night cookout" should 
pick up an invitation from the 
F'reshman Year of Studies Office 
10 later than noon Thursday. 
The cookout will begin at 8:30pm 

1n the courtyard behind the Fresh­
nan Year of Studies Office. 
;everal of the teachers of fresh­man courses and their families, as Nell as the freshman counciling ;taff will attend. Food and drink Nil! be provided for all. Notre )arne Glee Club and some student ~uitarists will supply the en­. ertainment and lead a sing-along. 
Similar cookouts are scheduled : or each Friday night through ; llovember 10. Two cookouts have 
llready been held and have met 
vith great success, according to 
)ean Hofman. The student at­
endance however, has been 
;omewhat low, about 100 persons 
nstead of the 200 expected. 
Dean Hofman has attributed the 

·;lack attendance to the faulty 
nethod of invitation used the last two weeks. For the first wo cookouts, invitations, were sent only to the group of freshman scheduled for that Friday night. This system did not account for those students who might not be 
able  to  attend  their  specified  
cookout,  but wish to attend  
another.  

The dean's new plan is to allow any interested freshmen to pick up an invitation at the Freshmn Year of Studies Office, anytime prior to noon of the Thursday preceding the cookout of his choice. 
"The purpose of the cookouts," says Dean Hofman, "is to enable the freshmen to both meet each other and become aquainted with their teachers in an atmosphere less formal than the classroom." 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


River Park Liquor 
2411 Mish. Ave. 

Army investigating alleged massacre 
by Anthony Ripley 
( Cl 1972 New York Times 

Washington. Sept. 27--The Army con­firmed today that is has been investigating allegations that another infantry company had committed a series of war crimes one year earlier in the same area as the 1968 My Lai massacre. 
Details of the investigation were revealed today by the Daily Oklahoman in a copyrighted article by Jack Taylor. 
According to the newspaper, from "80 to the hundreds" of prisoners and civilians were killed: investigators are looking to charges of villages and crops being set ablaze and mutilation of the dead. More than 100 were being questioned, the paper said. 
The unit involved in the investigation, the Oklahoman reported, is company C, Second Battalion. 35th Infantry, Third Brigade, 25th Infantry Division. 
In the spring of 1967, the unit was operating in a section of Quangngai Province, near My Lai. The company was attached to the fourth division, which was later relieved by the 23d Infantry Division (American l. 
A Defense Department spokesman, asked to comment on the investigation, adi, "on several occasions in the past, the Army has acknowledged that it has a number of active investigations con­cerning allegations of improper acitivites in Vietnam. 
"The Army has nothing new it can report to you today on these on-going matters." 
At the same time, an army public affairs officer, Lt. Col. Leonard F. B. Reed said that Army Criminal Investigation Division inquiry into allegations against Capt. James W. Lanning, Commander at the time of Company C, was completed Aug. 18 and forwarded to the commanding officer 
District of Columbia is center 
of political 
by John Herbers 
<c> 1!172 New York Times 

Washington. St>ptember 26-­The District of Columbia designated by President Nixon as a national laboratory on crime control, has emerged in the political campaigns as a center of controversy over the highly emotional issue of "crime in the streets." 
While the president and other Republican candites have been asserting that the nation's capital has been changed from a jungle of crime into one of the safest cities in America, the following develop­ments have counter-balanced these statements: 
-A nonpartisan study con­cluded that at least part of the reported decline in serious crime was because the police downgraded the value of some stolen items, thus keeping a number of larcenies and, to a lesser extent, burglaries out of the statistics. This trend began with the appoinment of the Police Chief, Jerry V. Wilson, in August of 1969. 
--A Congressional .. com­mittee is investigating not only the crime statistics but also admitted irregularities in the awarding of a $32,000, federally-funded contract for an independent audit of the crime reports. It was learned that the Federal Bureau of In­vestigation offered to conduct the audit free. 
-The head of the Washington office of the firm that received the contract over several othexbidders, Ernst & Ernst. is the treasurer of the Victory '72 dinner committee that is putting on a large fund­raising affair in New York Tuesday for the re-election of the President. Julian 0. Kay, the Ernst & Ernst executive, has denied any conflict of interest, saying he took on the fund-raising job after the contract was awar­ded. 
Whatever the truth on crime reduction, the District of Columbia 

crime •lSSUe 
controversy provides a case study in the politics of crime and gives some indication of how the crime issue is likely to figure in the November elections. 
Some Democratic congressional candidates who believe the White House is vulnerable on its asser­tions of crime reduction, both in the district and nationally, are reluctatnt to get into the fight against the President. 
"It doesn't matter that crime hasn't been rolled back as Nixon promised in 1968," said a Democratic aide. "What seems to matter is whether you are for the police. It's part of the Alice-in­Wonderland nature of the whole campaign." 
Four years ago, Nixon blamed the Johnson Administration for the steadily increasing crime rate and promised to reduce crime by strengthening the police forces and refusing to coddle criminals. 
His administration has placed emphasis on strengthening the police. Across the country, the Federal Law Enforcement Assistance Administration has poured large sums into police equipment and training. In Washington. the police force was increased from about 3,000 to 5,000, equipment and computers were added to the department and high intensity light installed in high­crime areas. With 22 other special police forces of the Federal government operating in Washington, officials say the city has "wall to wall policemen," an achievement no other major city can afford. 
Nationally, the rate of serious crime, as compiled by the F.B.I. from reports of local police departments, has continued to climb. From 1969 through 1971, it rose 30 per cent, but ad­ministration officials contend that 1 per cent rise in the first quarter of 1972 indicates a general slackening. 
In Washington, which Republicans in 1968 said was the of Fort Bragg, N.C., where the captain is now stationed. 
According to the newspaper's account, Company C took part in a search-and­destroy operation between Mary 18 and May 23, were allegedly committed. 
Among those who are known to have been questioned by C.I.D., the paper reported, were former Lieutenant Paul Schierholz, of Columbus, Ga., and former enlisted men Lonnie Gentry, of Duncan, Okla., Paul Halverson, of Superior, Wise., Richard E. Porte, of Lakeland, Fla., and Robert E. Grote, of White Plains, N.Y. 
Halverson, a combat photographer and journalist who had accompanied the unit on several operations, said it was his complaint that brought on the in­vestigation, according to the Oklahoman. 
"I tried to voice my complaints that if 

_(THE OBSERVER) 

they were going to do it to Lieutenant Calley, _they should do it to all," the paper quote him as saying. Halverson, no longer in the Army, is presently serving aboard a 
freighter sailing the Great Lakes. 
The reference was to Lt. William L. Calley Jr. who was convicted of murder and sentenced to 20 years in prison for his part in the My Lai Massacre. The Calley Case i now under review. 
Halverson told the Oklahoman of "outright cold-blooded killing" of civilians and prisoners by members of the com­pany. 
The Army is als known to be in­vestigating allegations of a second mas_s~c.re at My Lai involving as many as 90 CIVIlians less than two miles from the hamlet of My Lai on the same morning of the My Lai Massacre. 
( News scene ) 
"crime capital" of America, the police report a reduction in serious crimes of 50 per cent since mid­1969. 
Sen. George McGovern, the Democratic presidential nominee, has accused the administration of tampering with the crime figures and "perpetuating a cruel hoax on the American people." 
Earlier this month, two academic experts on crime, David Seidman of Princeton University and Michael Couzens, formerly with the Brookings Institution, released a study on the district's crime statistics during the annual meeting of the American Political Science Association. 
An analysis of the police department's crime records, according to the study, showed an "abrupt and decisive" change in dollar value of larcenies reported by the police at the time Wilson was appointed chief. He was reported to have said at that time that police commanders unable to reduce crime in their jurisdiction would be replaced by men who could. 

White House denies Vietnam negotiation breakthrough 
({') 1!172 New York Times 
Washington. St>pt. 27--Presidential ad­viser Henry A. Kissinger was en route to Washington from Paris tonight amid speculation--stronly denied by the White House--that there had been a breakthrough in peace negotiations with the North Viet­namese. 
Ronald L. Ziegler, the White House Press secretary, traveling with President Nixon in San Francisco, said that a radio broadcast reporting that an accord had been reached was unfounded. 
Earlier in the day, when the rumors first began circulating, Ziegler confined himself to the remark that "I cannot comment at all on the substance of the discussions" in Paris. 
Kissinger, who is Nixon's special assistant for National Security Affairs, left Paris aboard a special Air Force jet tran­sport immediately after holding its second private meeting in two days witht the North Vietnamese representatives. 
This was the first time that Kissinger met the Le Due Tho, a member of the Hanoi Politburo, and Xuan Thuy, the chief North Vietnamese negotiator, for sessions lasting more than one day. 
Today's reports of a Paris breakthrough appeared to be based on this fact and on intensive diplomatic speculation here that decisive progress was made in the talks. 
The most detailed of those reports came from Clifford Evans, White House correspondent for several radio networks, who said that the deadlock in the Peace Talks "is expected to be resolved by the resignation of <President Nguyen Van) Thieu who will be replaced by a three~party coalition government." 

Thieu's removal has been demanded by Hanoi as a key condition for a political settlement of the war. 
Administration officials, speaking privately. suggested late today that Kissinger's two-day state in Paris was motivated by his desire for what one official called "sober" examination of the latest proposals formulated by the National Liberation Front and Hanoi delegates. 
That proposal. made publicly on Sept. 11, said that a settlement should be based on the recognition that two governments and two armies exist in South Vietnam. 
Although Kissinger said at a news con­ference here on Sept. 15, a day after meeting with the North Vietnamese In paris, that the new language still "left something to be desired," administration officials said that the White House had wanted to explore it further. 
This, officials speculated, may have been the reason for Kissinger's return to the French capital on Monday. 
Tonight, one official said that it could be 
· safely speculated that Kissinger had had an opportunity for "sober" talks with the North Vietnamese in the last two days. 



Thrt:e American pilots freed by Vietcong 
by Thr lore Shabad 
<C> 1!172NewYorkTimes 

Moscow. Sept. 27--Three American pilots freed by North Vietnam arrived here today and turned down a United States govern ment offer of assistance in their onward journey too the United States. 
In their first meeting with a U. S. official since their departure from Hanoi Monday, the fliers declined the offer of overnight accomodations in the Ambassador's residence and the use of a medical evacuation plane proposed by Adolph Dubs, the U.S. Charge d'Affaires. 
Dubs spoke with the pilots in a private room at Moscow's Sheremetyevo Airport shortly after their arrival fromPeking, He said later they had turned down the offer out, of "concern for their fellow , servicemen wno are suffering the same fate they suf­fered" in North Vietnamese prison camps. 
Instead, they told Dubs, they preferred to continue their journey to the United States by commerical airlines via Copenhagen after an overnight stop in Moscow. They were put up for the night at the Aeroflot Hotel, run by the Soviet Government Airline. 
Last week, the Hanoi radio broadcast terms for the three pilot's release, among them that they travel home in civilian aircraft with the American antiwar ac­tivists and the members of the families who had flown to North Vietnam to escort them. 
At a hectic meeting with about 50 reporters and photographers, one of the three pilots, Lt. (J. G ( Mark. L. Gartley of the Navy, who had been a prisoner for four years, said: . 
"As you can see we are all very tired from a very long trip. Personally, I am in good health. I am looking forward a great deal to goin!$ home." 
Asked why the North Vietnamese had selected him and his two companions for release. the 28-year-{)ld Navy flier replied: 
"I have absolutely no idea at all." 
In answer to a question whether Hanoi might now proceed to free additional pilots shot down during bombing raids over North Vietnam. Gartley said: "That's a difficult question for me to answer." 
Released with him were another Navy flier. Lt. (J.G.l Norris A. Charles, 27, who had been a prisoner since December, and Maj. Edward K. Elias, 34, of the Air Force, who was shot down last spring. 
They were accompanied by Gartley's mother, Mrs. Minnie Lee Gartley of Dunedin, Fla., and Charles' wife, Olga, of San Diego, Calif. 
The two women had flown to Hanoin in the company of four antiwar leaders to escort the American prisoners back home. The antiwar activists are Ms. Cora Weiss and David Dellinger, co-ehairmen of the Committee of -Liaison with Families of Servicement Detained in Vietnam; Prof. Richard Falk of Princeton University, and the Rev. William Sloane Coffin Jr., Yale Universithy Chaplain. 

Some of the antiwar leaders appeared to resent Dubs' offer of U. S. Government assistance on the ground that Hanoi in 
· releasing the prisoners, had expected them to proceed to the United States without official intervention. Ho However, Dubs presented the three fliers with U. S. passports for the rest of their journey. It could not be immediately established on what papers they had been traveling from Hanoi. . The American diplomat was also ob­served delivering to Major Elias a letter, later described as a family message. The Major's farther, Barney Elias of Valdosta. Ga., had not joined the group in the jourw to Hanoi. 

l 
the observer Thursday, September 28, 1972 
Slovv bike registration 
by Jim Ferry Observer Staff Reporter 
Bicycle registration is being received "very poorly" according to several officials of the Farley Cyclers. 
Since registration started Monday the club has registered only 40 bikes. Chris Singleton, who is registering the bikes on the first floor of La Fortune called the turn out "very poor." 
Singleton felt that "most students don't think that their bikes will be stolen" As a result only a few students bother to register bicycles. 
"None of us can be protected 
without registration." "When a 
bike is found, the only way the 
police can find the owner is to try 
and trace the serial number. 
Registration provides an official 
record of the bike and owner. 
Thousands of bikes are auctioned 
off by the South Bend police every 
vear and many of them are from Notre Dame, most without serial numbers," Singleton added. 

Bill Powers, head of the Farley Cyclers, said that "if an unregistered bike is .stolen, the owner can only blame himself." "The fact is that chances of finding a lost or stolen bike is virtually nil without registration." 
Registration continues in LaFortune until Friday. Bikes 
warld briefs 

Washington -Secretary of Defense Laird refused to rule out the possibility of court martial proceedings against any of the three American prisoners released by North Vietnam. "That does not mean," Laird said, "that a court martial or any action will be taken." 
Washington -The White House strongl_y <:~enied _rumors that th~re has been a breakthrough in peace negotiatiOns w1th the North VI~t­namese. Ronald L. Ziegler, the White House Press Secretary, sa1d that a radio report that an accord has been reached was unfounded. 
Washington -Voting 76-5, the Senate approved an earnings limitation increase that will permit social security recipients to earn up to 3,000 dollars a year without forfeiting any of their social security cash benefits. The Senate action, led by Sen. Mike Mansfield, boosted the increase from 2,000 dollars voted by the House 15 months ago, and from 2,400 dollars later proposed by the Nixon administration. 
New York-Stanley H. Fuld, the State's Chief Judge,suggested that it might be "dP.sirable" to take the job of sentencing away from judges and give it to correction authorities or "some other agency." Com­menting on articles about disparate sentences among prisoners in the New York Times Fuld said that "disparity in sentencing is most unfortunate. 
New York-In daylight, while many looked on, Herman B. Glaser, a prominent lawyer and civic worker, was mugged and robbed on a busy street. Glaser, 56, estimated that 100 people were watching as he was attacked, and said "I can't understand the apathy of all the people on that street." 
an campu• taday 
3:00-7:00--bike registration, 1st floor Iafortune 
3: 30--film, the great thaw, engineering auditorium. 
4: 00--non-violence program, organizational meeting, library lounge. 
7:00--meeting--Young Voters for the President-­Wyman's, Michigan Ave. 
8: 00--meeting, transcendental meditation, 205 o'shag. 


ATTENTION HEADS 
of hair: 
Are you sick? Are you damaged? Are you tangled? 
Do you need shapinq 
up? 


LET US SOLVE YOUR HAIR PROBLEMS! 



Ghe WinJjammer 
HAIR STYLING FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN & BOYS 
lli:li Lincoln Way W. Phone 232-6622 ,\11 Services By Appointment 

may be registered from 3:30 till 
7:00. Local registration is .75 and national registration is also available for 1.75. 
The cyclers may eventually take registration to the various halls on campus, or work through the hall clerks, depending on student response in the next few days. 
/ 

presents cllel'ture on the tedllli(JIIe of 

TR\\TSCF_MlFNil\1~ ~J)J'IXIl()N 

clS t.111ght h~· 
ll.1h.1rishi 

ll.1hcsh 

\()gi 
• 
Sponlaneously develops full creallve inlelllgence. 

• 
Provides dt!t!p rcsl for mcrcased energy In dnllv lite. 

• 
Unfolds life 10 n natural slale or freedom. 


dclfe THURSDAY SEPTEMBER 28 time 8:OOpm

l)lcK'e O'SHA_U_G_H_N_E_S_S_Y_H_A_l_l_ ROOM 205 
~''~·1\1~ '""" c·•.m.·r; \!'Ill"''~~······· ~.lolll~lun. Ill. 1141.!111 l'lu>l"" li!·'Ut-i•\'l>ut 

In just one exciting Speed Reading Lesson you too can increase your reading and study speed (with no loss in comprehen­sion) 50 to 100%-FREE. At the Free Speed Reading Lesson you will learn how the Evelyn Wood course handles difficult text book material. How it improves memory and concentration. And, how it makes reading a pleasure instead of a chore. Attend a Free Speed Reading Les­son. It could change your life too! 
Over 500,000 graduates including 
Dean Amstead, University of Texas Rear Admiral Ashworth Birch Bayh, U.S. Congress McGeorges Bundy, JFK Cabinet Clark Clifford, LBJ C~blnet Superintendent Estes, St. Louts Dean Gates, Beaver College John Glenn, Astronaut 
S. I. Hayakawa, San Francisco State Charlton Heston Mrs. Jacob Javltts Herman Jones, U.S. District Judge Edward Kennedy, U.S. Congress Burt Lancaster George McGovern, U.S. Congress Marshall Mcluhan Dr. Frank Moya, Miami University William Proxmlre, U.S. Congress Dr. Margaret Ratz, Principia College George Segal Judge Juanita Kldd Stout Ben Wllllnghan, Genesco President 
Success Warranty! 
98% success! Anyone who falls to Improve at least 3 times receives a full tuition refund! 

Lifetime Membership 
If you want further improvement in your speed of reading, study, comprehension, and recall skill you can, as a Reading Dynamics graduate, repeat the course at any time. 
.------Free Speed Reading lessons-----. 









TODAY AND SUNDAY 
6 & Bpm 
Center for Continuing Education 
Notre Dame Avenue 
•

~W'.M READING DYNAMICS 
~----------------------------------------~------------------------~------------------~-----------------------------, 
Thursday, September 28, 1972 the observer 
------------------~--------~ 
Badin Hall elects its first female president 
by Connie Greiwe believe this is a critical time A third caniddate, Rosie Condon, mittees: social activities, judicial becuase we are the first women of also withdrew from the election the board, hall constitution, and hall Kim Magnotta, a junior transfer Notre Dame Whether we like to morning of voting. She stated, business. The Steering Committee student from Saint Mary's, admit it or not, our image will be "This does not mean that I am feels that this will give a variety of became the first woman president made within the next couple of discontinuing my involvement in leadership and ideas from each of Badin Hall yesterday when she years." hall life, but that I am choosing section. Hall staff members will defeated freshman Cecilia Prin­Prinster decided to run Monday, other means." Rosie previously act as advisors to each committee. ster by a 45 to 43 vote, in an election only to withdraw Tuesday af­laid the ground work for Badin's Kathy Cekanski, hall rector, makred by indecision on the part of ternoon and re-enter that evening newly adopted hall government. when asked about her reaction to the candidates. at a hall meeting. The meeting the election stated she was very The indecision made enabled the candidates to present pleased with the number of voters. 
Magnotta will preside over a hall
problematic until the final day of their ideas and answer any Out of 133 residents 94 voted.
government not yet defined by a
the campaign whether anyone at questions. 
formal constitution.
all was running for Badin Hall Prinster decided to re-enter her Eight secion leaders chosen
President. name on the ballot after hearing Non-violence
from each wing form a steering
other candidates speak. She felt 
committee. Magnotta as chairman
many of the objectives she wanted programs
and coordinator of the committee
Magnotta, the winner, said last carried through were missed by will represent the dorm to outer
night, "Actually, I decided to run availability and inter-hall the other candidates. She believed university agencies such as HPC.
Tuesday, the day before voting." ·relationships. a unified spirit shokld be developed Professor Jay Dolan of the
Section leaders working in
She said she feels that her ideas When asked about her concern within the dorm before attempting History department announced 
groups of two will rotate as
concerning hall government are for rleationships between Badin any relationships outside. plans for the revitalization of the
chairmen of four basic com-
basically practical ones: and other halss Kin stated, I program on Non Violence as a student organization. Dolan has planned an organizational meeting for today at 4 p.m. in the Library
New SMC parietals coming 
Lounge, to which he urges all in­proposal that calls for the lobby approval. "There has been no real into your living room." terested students to attend.
by Greg Aiello area of every hall to remain open opposition," said Seymour. "We­Both Seymour and Tracy believe One of the topics which will beObserver Staff Reporter 
to visitors 24 hours every day. ve been talking to security people that a 24 hour lobby priviledge discussed is the choice of a new 
In this day of the casual, Presently, St. Mary's dorms are and hall directors in getting the would make it easier to maintain director for the program, an office unrestricted, liberalized college closed to visitors after 12 a.m. on details worked out. As long as we hospitality to guests. Many that was left vacant with the experience have any of you Notre weekdays and 2a.m.on weekends. take care of everything and we're couples are forced to talk outside resignation of Fr. Maurice Amen. Dame men out there ever been The proposal will be submitted to not haphazardous we shouldn't after hours because of the pf'esent Dolan said that students will have thrown out of a St. Mary's dorm the Student Assembly next Wed­have too much difficulty getting it restrictions. The South Bend an active role in choosing the new lobby and into the snow just nesday. If passed, it must also passed. It's just a matter of weather often makes this a trying director . The Non-Violence because it's 12 midnight on a week­receive approval from the Student working out little problems." ordeal. "We just want to be able to Program lapsed out of existence day or 2 a.m. on the weekend? Affairs Committee, the Student Tracy also cited no major ob­receive people on an informal this year when a grant from Gulf 
Unreasonable? Inconvenient? Affairs Council, and the Board of stacles·. She explained that the basis after hours," said Tracy. Oil terminated at the end of last Apparently the women of St. Regents before it becomes ef­written proposal is being carefully The major concern is to main­school year. As it currently exists, Mary's agree; and if student fective. This process would not be drawn up. "We are trying to get all tain proper security standards. the program is merely cross-listed government is successful in get­completed probably until the points across that we want as Seymour indicated that moving courses from other departments. ting its proposal for open lobbies sometime in November. clearly as possible," she said. night Hall Directors desks into a Further funding has been approved, this practice will join Both Student Bodv President ..There is no place to entertain positionswhere they could see the promised for next year but Dolan the fate of compulsory masses and Jean Seymour and Hall Life guys after hours here," explained stairs, should eliminate the does not want to have the program the all-male institution. Commissioner Mitzy Tracy ex­Seymour. "The philosophy behind security problems. vanish from the campus this year 
St. Mary's student government pressed optimism toward the the proposal is that the lobby is like Prospects for the open lobby are as a viable student organization. 
leaders are currently working on a chances of the plan's successful a 1iving room and we would like to good. With it another anachronism Among possible actiVIties tor the use it as such to entertain visitors from life in the Notre Dame-St. program would be a series of after hours. We can't take guys Mary's community will find its speakers, films, etc. Nothing can into our rooms. Maybe at home grave. happen in the program, Dolan 
you wouldn't take a guy into your pomts out, "if students do not bedroom. but vou could take him become actively involved." by Mary Jauca Cassidy declared, "but the em­Obse•·ver Starr Reporter phasis will be on the Saint Mary's 
SMC to celebrate birthday 
Chess tournament rules finalized
of today and the women of today." 
A series of panels, seminars, and Founder's Day is the observance workshops based on the theme of of Fr. Edward Sorin's feast day, Chess Club officials last night handle the evening's play. They opening play will be listed in the women will be held around the who is regarded as the founder of clarified some of the rules that will will serve as coordinators of each Observt>r that afternoon. All Saint Mary's campus on October 12 both Saint Mary's and the govern play in the Observer chess night's play. pairmgs will include a location to commemorate Founder's Day, a University of Notre Dame. On this tournament October 2-8. number which will indicate the traditional celebration at Saint day, Sr. Angela and the sisters of The Chess Club, co-sponsors of All games must be recorded in location of play and the phone Mary's. the Holy Cross are also remem­the usual method. numbers of all contestants.
the tournament, are supplying two According to Dr. Rita Cassidy, bered. tournament directors per night to Pairings for Monday night's All results must be turned in to associate professor of history and Founder's Day committee head, "the day will be based on women Usually celebrated on Octoberand women's life." 

13, the feast of St. Edward,Students, women faculty Founder's Day will be on daymembers, faculty wives, and earlier this year due to Parent'swomen of the community will Council Meeting and other ac­participate in the day's activities, tivities.
which will also include a liturgy on In the past, the celebration haswomen. 
taken many forms. Helen Carroll, Executive Secretary of theSeminars will deal with "Women Alumnae Association, recalls thatin Politics," "The Psychology ?f 
tours of the campus, displays onWomen " and "Women m the historical aspects of the school, Professi~ns." Plans are still in the masses and distinguished speakers formative stages, said Cassidy. 
were all part of past observances. 
She will announce the locations "This day " Carroll believes "isand participants on Wednesday of for looking backward, but lookingthis week. 
forward, too."
"The past will not be forgotten," 
Observer Chess Tournament
Naine________________________ 
Address__________ Phone_____________ 
Playing for priz~~::~e____yeS---110 USFC Meinber___yes-no Ratins---------­

October 2-8 
the directors by ll :00 each evening. 
Play will begin promptly at 7:00. Directors can be contacted in case players are late. If players do not show up by 8:00 or notify tour­nament directors prior to that time, the match is declared a forfeit. 
There is a 1.00 registration fee for those interested in playing for the first place award of a trophy and cash prize. Those not in­terested in playing for the prize can waive the fee and register by calling the office at 8661. Registration will continue this afternoon, Friday afternoon, and all day Sunday. Registration closes at 7:00 Sunday night. 
Sell Raffle Tickets 
tor 

Mardi Gras 
Saturday; before the Purdue game amazing profits and benefits in~luding incentive prizis 
! I 
cal!l Tony Malench 1691 ! 

NO KARATE CLUB announces Enrollment for Classes 
Monday, Wedne'sday & Thursday at Gym 4 (ACC) {Enter· Gate 3, take stairs to your left ) 
CO-ED CLASSES 
For inforLalion contact Mike Lilienthan 






THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Dan Thornton
John Abowd Editor-in-chief Business ManagerNews: 283-171S EditoriaI: 283-8661 Joe ButlerDon RuaneBusiness: 283-7471 Advertising Manager
Executive Editor 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Thursday, September 28, 1972 
Pick the new female residence hall now 

Fr. James Burtchaell's statement two 
nights ago that "it wouldn't help anyone 
to know" which residence hall will be 
selected as the next female dormitory is 
inconsistent with his usual concern for 
the long run stability of the university. 
In point of fact, it would help some people to know which hall is going to be chosen. First, it reduces the anxiety of the many students who are worried about the selection of their hall. This anxiety cannot be reduced by extending it for the five months between now and room picks. 
If anything, it will be heightened by the temporal proximity of the announcement and the actual selections. 
Benefits of choosing now 
An early announcement would specifically aid both the students who live in the chosen hall and the dean of students in his capacity as director of student housing. This is true because it would allow the residents of the chosen hall more time to adjust to the forced change in housing accomodations. They can use the time to make arrangements to move displaced students into other halls. Or, more importantly, they can use the time to shop for off-campus ac­comodations in a way that will significantly increase the demand for off­campus housing. Since it's obvious that the current dormitory overcrowding will have to be solved by such an increase in demand, this move will also help the dean of students. 
One reason cited for not making the announcement sooner is that the need for another female dorm and the required size cannot be determined until 1) the quota for incoming female students is set and 2) the number of female students who wish to move off campus is determined. 
Planning model 
Since there are only a handful of women graduating next year, it should be safe to assume that the minimum net increase in female students is 100. Even with this minimum increase a new dorm would be needed because nearly a third of the present female enrollment would have to move off campus to accomodate 
' 'T 

the increment. There is no reason to 
suppose that the demand for off campus 
housing is any higher among women than 
men. If anything the demand might be 
lower. 
Obviously a minimum net increase of 
100 female students is ridiculous. 
Clearly, atleast one more female dorm is 
needed. This points sharply to the need 
for flexible planning based on prediction. 
Itshould be possible to estimate to within 
15 students how many women wish to 
move off-campus next year. Even the 
crudest statistician should be able to 
estimate to within plus or minus 15 in a 
sample size of 325. 
Since applica lions for female places in 
the freshmen class are no problem, the 
university should easily be able to decide 
its quota for 1973-74 female admissions in 
two weeks. Given the quota and the 
predicted off-campus shift, a new female 
dormitory should be selected before 
November 1. 
Hazards minimal 
The hazards of this proposal are relatively minor. Assume the prediction is low by its maximum. That would mean that there are 15 empty beds in the female dormitories. Clearly, this is the most harmful of the contingencies because it has the highest cost to the university. The most acceptable solution would be to admit 15 more female students from the waiting list. The marginal cost of this move is zero. The marginal revenue is 15 times one year's tuition. Surely, 15 students will cause no serious imbalance in the university. 
An analysis in these terms assumes the university's number one long range priority is financial stability. Clearly the principle trade-off is between the anxiety and inconvenience of currently enrolled students vs. the costs of planning. Obviously, the longer the decision is delayed the greater the possible cer­tainty. But in this case the costs of planning are greatly outweighed by the potential inconvenience to the student body. 
John Abowd Fred Giuffrida 
Jump into the realm of theory for a minute. Assume that the desire of all those connected with Notre Dame is the Perfect University. What is this ideal? 
The Perfect University is pleasing to undergrads, grad students and alumnae. It is a university acceptable to God, the Trustees, the ad­ministration and the faculty. 
The Perfect University draws no adverse comment from men or w?men, young or old, smart people or dumb people. It is a university with perfect football, basketball, baseball, hockey, track, wrestling, tennis, fencing, soccer, swimming, rugby and lacrosse teams. The Perfect University is something that cannot possibly exist. Someone always bitches. 
So abandon ideas of the Perfect University. Instead concentrate efforts on the Imperfect University--the bearable university, the compromise university. Here stands Notre Dame. 
There are two formulae for achieving and sustaining the Imperfect University. One is reactive and one is insightful. 
The Reactive Formula 
The reactive formula is the easier of the two. It requires two elements: the crisis and the reaction. In this formula the Imperfect University sits back and waits for a crisis-the inevitable result of the university's imperfection. Then the university strikes back, often ferociously, in a desparate attempt to eliminate the crisis. 
The reaction to a crisis is often stricter enforcement of existing rules or precedents. This reaction tends to restore the status quo--the same situation as before the crisis. 
At ND this is a common practice to maintain the Imperfect University. For example: the Trustees and the infamous letter on drinking and parietals in Sept. '71, the unmerger of '71-'72, the Badin Walsh incident of April '72, the freshman bed problem in august '72 and the Student Government restructure in Sept. '72. 
Ease of administration is the primary advantage of the reactive formula. No advance work is required. Knowledge of the system is helpful but not mandatory. As such, a busy administrator (or whoever is doing the reacting) can handle many crises easily. 
Permanence is one serious disadvantage of this system. In reacting to a crisis and restoring order, nothing is done about the causes of the problem. Each crisis tends to reappear and haunt the campus once again. 
The Insightful Approach 
The second formula for sustaining the Imperfect University requires planning and foresight. The insightful approach to problems is preventative, not reactive. 
Decision makers intheirformula must preview a crisis. They must analyze ROtential problems. Then they act to prevent that crisis from maturing. 
The solution under the insightful approach gets to the real heart of a~ issue. This solution examines causal relationships. This solution aims to correct an anticipated problem not merely eliminate it. 
Notre Dame is not prone to using this method, at least not yet. But the future presents many opportunities to try this approach. For example: the question of who will be forced to live off campus next year, the question of the next female dorms, the question of a lowered age of. majority in Indiana and the question of coresidential dorms. All these luture problems can be solved insightfully now. (Of course, they could be also solved reactively later.) 
Permanence is the main advantage of the insightful approach. Careful deliberation about the causes of a problem and timely action can prevent occurence and recurrence of a crisis. 
Laziness is the chief culprit of the insightful formula. Laziness drives people to postpone action until a crisis has surfaced. Laziness keeps people from diving deeply into the root causes of problems. Laziness prevents quick and adequate implimentation of a solution. 
~oth formulae work to sustain the Imperfect University. One is a qmck, after-the-fact solution, like abortion. The other is a slow, painstaking process of deliberate action, like daily birth control pills. The right path depends on what kind of monster Notre Dame does not want to conceive. 
JDIIIUIIIIJHriiirimllllllllllliiiiiiiiUIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIniiiiiiiiillllllliiiUIIIIl 
the staff 
Nite Editor: Anthony Abowd 
Ass't Nite Editor: george lund, Art Esposito 
Design: James Abowd. Tim Neuville, Dianne Chermside 
Sue Prendergast Headliner: Don Biancamano Nite Controller: Joe Wilkowski Pictureman: Jerome Typists: the mob 
-------~-----­
Thursday, September 28, 1972 the observer 
7 



Viewpoint 
American prisoners released from Viet Nam 
What, after all, are these men likely to No do';lbt they and the civilians ac-proper perspective when he said, "theseby Tom Wicker 
know in the way of military information that companymg them recall clearly the oc­men have been through a terrible ordeal. 
<Cl1!172 New York Times would be so valuable to the war planners in , casion in 1968 when three released prisoners Our interest is their safe arrival back the Pentagon? What are they likely to say reached \'ientiane in compan~ of the Rev. home." That ought to be the Pentagon's publicly that would be so damaging to Da~ Be~ngan and Howard Zn~n of Boston interest as well, and the White House ought Administration policy or to the peace talks Umve~s1ty. ~h~y were ther~ mformed by to enforce it. or even to Nixon's prospects? Isn't the main Amencan offiCials that, while they were
Nt>w York. Sept. 27--The United States 
Meanwhile, as an intercontinental
thing to restore these men to their families free to do as they chose, the Department of
Government did not arrange for the relea~e is over the
struggle being waged freedand let them alone for awhile to enjoy their Defense wished them to transfer to aof the three prisoners of war now on their 
new freedom? ·military plane and that this word has been prisoners, the House Internal Security
way home from Hanoi. Nor, _as far a~ can relayed through the White House, which Committee has approved a bill to preventbe ascertained, was it any policy or actH~n of 
concurred. It is hardly surprising that the American civilians from visiting Hanoi. 
Washington's or any words of the Nixon 
Instead, reports that American officials released prisoners · promptly shifted to the This is a measure to "get Jane Fonda and Administration that prompted the North would be waiting at the Vientiane Airport military plane; some time later, the only Ramsey Clark" after the fact, but it has far 
Vietnamese Government to turn these men 
caused the civilian delegation ac­one of them ever to take a public platform worse defects than that futile purpose.
loose. Why then should the P~ntagon and 
companying the released men to choose an recanted his original statement that he had
officials abroad be so determmed to get 
alternate route through Peking and not been mistreated while a prisoner. It appears to run afoul of a Supreme Courtcontrol of these men before they even return 
Moscow. In Moscow today they were met by decision striking down travel restrictions
The same kind of veiled threat is plain in to this country, and why should P~ntagon 
American officials--and according to for one thing; for another, no legal state of
the words of Pentagon officials who, whileofficials including Secretary Laird be 
reports reaching here that will be the case war exists between the United States and
professing anxiety to guard the rights of the raising the threatening possibility of court­
again at the airport tomorrow in North Vietnam; for still a third, the civilians 
returning prisoners, have raised questions
martialing them"~ Copenhagen. to Hanoi
who would be stopped from goingabout unspecified quotes they-attributed to
It goes without saying that Hanoi has its are the only people who have ever brought
themin North Vietnam; as well as in Laird's 
own propaganda and no doubt dip~omatic any prisoners out, and the only people who 
remark that he "can't state..that the 
purposes in releasing the three pnsoners, It is true that these officials insist that have ever informed the American public
Uniform Code of Military Justice will not
and may even be trying in a roundabout they only want to offer a night's lodging in about the effects of the American bombing 
be followed."
fashion to aid Sen. George McGovern's the Embassy residence and continuation of This in instiarp contrast to the attitude of and blockade; finally, the measure would Presidential campaign. Even so, it would the journey in an American military air­hand even more power to President Nixon
Ronald Ziegler, the White House 
make more sense and be imcomparably craft. But that would be, in effect, to take since it would allow him to authorize visits it
spokesman, who has said there is no 
more humane and civilized if Washington custody of the men if they acquiesced; and would otherwise forbid. If the House
possibility the government will bring
simply welcomed these men ~orne from they already have made it clear that they Democratic leadership doesn't bury a
charges against any of the returning
their ordeal, let them have their say, then want to come home under civilian and not prisoners for anything they might have done monstrosity like that, it is no leadership at military escort. all.
"debriefed" them later. while in captivity; and who put the matter in 

The "McGovern Gap"-just how large is it? 
by Max Frankel "I feel pretty good," he says, looking lean What then is a plausible strategy?
But now the mystery is
<cl 1!172 Nt>w York 11mes and weary but in no sense depressed. "I've Attack on the war and on economic issues. 
fading, not because it has been resolved but been living with it for a long time. It's been Draw the President out of '"hiding" andbecause the moods about this campaign are rough most of the way and our troubles are keep it clearly a contest between the twoSan Francisco. St>pt. 26 -One of the clearly converging. 
so much more closely reported now." men. And pour all resources and energieslingering mysteries in this presidential When McGovern flew into Sioux Falls in 
into the biggest states with the biggest
campaign has been the "McGovern Gap".. -his home state of South Dakota Sunday The students are returning to campus now populations.
-the confiict in perception between the evening, the crowd was huge and fervent. It 
politicians, reporters and pollsters who contained many citizens who reported and he will b~ returning to the students, his The crowds do encourage him, McGovern natural constituency, he says. Not because 
judge the D~mocratic candidate to be switches of sentiment among Republican concedes, and so does the testimony of hopelessly off the pace and those who see friends and relatives. And it honored the colleagues, including some in Congress who 
he needs to fight for their votes but because him closing in at a steady gallop toward an visitor with an opera star's windswept they will influence their parents and "give were "the last ones to figure out what was exciting finish. rendering of "The Impossible Dream." us ~ ?ig forward thrust." They are going on in the primaries." Sen. Warren Almost anywhere away from George sophisticated enough not to buy the line that Magnuson told him he is confident of McGovern and his entourage, the signs have George McGovern has changed, he adds. carrying WashingtQn. Sen. Lee Metcalf tells 
The camp followers, including several 
been of gloom and the prophecies of doom. him he has no doubts about Montana. Gov.
who had been confused by the McGovern
But in the Senator's considerable jet wake, There is trouble in the affluent suburbs, John Gilligan is "very hopeful that we might
Gap. now found it all quite coherent: the 
even experienced and hard headed aides the Senator reports, and some "thoughtful, even be able to carry a tough state like
intensity of support is considerable, a shift
and reporters felt so many signs of life that television speeches will be aimed at those Ohio." Gene Pokorny, the young aide who 
toward McGovern is discernible, his victory springtime supporters who have been lost,
they struggled hard to resist the con­masterminded the Wisconsin primary
remains improbable but not beyond the
ventional wisdom. probably because of poor explanation of his triumph, says come to Illinois as often as
hope of a Don Quixote and his sense of tax proposals. The war and bread-and­
And in the middle of it all, the candidate possible but in any case there's no need to
mission and rectitude remains unimpaired. 
butter issues and charges of big business
himself ran with his now familiar but still worry, "we're going to carry Illinois."
In San Francisco, the source of 
favoritism should bring back the traditional 
peculiar combination of serenity and 
McGovern's decisive primary triumph in 
tenacity, growing stronger in his voice and Democrats, he believes, although he cannot With new and easy registration, there
June. A shrewd and respected supporter 
win it "just on issues." may even be " a pretty good chance inwarmer in his humor and more and more was on hand to report that yes, he could Texas," McGovern. says in defiance of all clairvoyant about those well turned out carry California but not the country as a the polls and conventional analyses. "Ierowds and reminding everyone that the whole. A top traveling aide says no, he does thing we'll carry New England solid. 
"McGovern Gap" had dogged him all his work with people New 
not doubt the opinion polls as a momentary York's going to be tough, but I think it'spolitical life. 
record of sentiment, but President Nixon's going to come around. We don't have to
It all made for an extradordinary con­"There has to be some indication on my
lop-sided lead seems so soft and tentative carry an awful lot of states
trast inside the political community as part that we can work with the people that -if they're the 
that it must be vulnerable. 
right ones."
summer turned to fall in this extraordinary they're comfortable with"-people like the political year. The polls and voters in­Kennedys and Humphreys and other As he talks, it all seems stiil possible, but terviews were showing one trend and the traditional party symbols. "It doesn't mean far from certain. The mystery of the
What does George McGovern know or feel
enthusiasm along the campaign trail we're betraying any position that we've "McGovern Gap" no longer needs solution. 
that those who judged him from afar had
suggested another. Facts and feelings were taken. But it does mean I have to indicateto The polls are showing some progress for
failed to detect? Mostly hope, born of
in conflict and obviously influencing the them that I'm not off on some fringe area him and the entourage is encountering
determination, born of ambition, born of
eourse of events in some undiscernable way. where they can't communicate with me." plenty of softness. 
conviction. 
New appraisal of the American Spirit is now needed 
by William V. Shannon Americans have lost, at least temporarily• "No, there is, I believe, pervasive feeling 
How does a whole people sit in judgment
(cl 1!172 New York Times their capacity to respond much to anybody's of unworthiness, of having fallen short of a upon itself? It is a difficult, perhaps im­problems e~cept th.os~ of their own family· noble calling, of being in need of judgment. 
possible, task. Yet Americans do want toThere was & time when Americans coulrl !o them, ~Ietnam IS hke an ear~che. Y?u But most Americans will, quite un­
put the horror of Vietnam behind them.
have responded in good spirit to a Just want It. to go away. By Withdra_wmg , derstandably, not accept the word of They sense that America is out of touch with prayer's plea for our suffering brothers and u1_ost Amencan ground t~oops, .President ' judgment from those who seem to be bent on its own best instincts,, moving through the
sisters in the human family around the Nixon has reduced the pam 0.f VIe~nam so their destruction; and among the tragedies world powerful but without itwral purpose. 
globe. Not that wenecessarilycould find a that most peopl~ most of t~e time fmd they of the 1960's is that the most pointed social They know that business deals with the rival job for that cant~yed ex-miner or could lead do_ not have_to thmk abo':lt It. Those who ~re and moral criticism seemed to be more totalitarianisms of Russia and China are not a raid on the prison camps of Siberia or miserable m Appalachia or South Afnca aimed at humiliating and destroying the enough and that this country's unem­Brazil. But we could voice our concern or have become equal~y forgettable. . American reality than at healing and
As good an analysis as I have read of this 1 • • • barrassed intimacy with odious regimes incontribute money if money would help or 
moral unrest is contained in an article by· reconstitutmg that reahtv..... Greece, Rhodesia, and elsewhere is not 
urge our government todo what is I
worthy of the land of Thomas Jefferson.
Richard Neuhaus, Pastor of the Luthernpeacefully could to redress thPsP wrongs. 
"Those who see the horror of what Ichurch of St. John the Evangelist inBut today, some Americans would regard America has become seem to believe not a t
Brooklyn and published in the magazine, It is the task of leadership to reconcile the such moral concern as hypocrisy. In their all in what America might have been and
Worldview .
, view, this nation's responsibility for the morally outraged minority and the out 
l
1 Neuhaus writes, "after the Indochma might yet be. Those who most loudly 
wardly uncaring, inwardly troubled
murderous aerial slaughter of Vietnamese 
horror, the divisiveness of myriad racisms, proclaim their confidence in America are majority, to make judgments that areeivilians and for the chemical poisoning of and the assassinations, the American people exposed asfraudulentbecause they refuse to morally firm yet emtionally tolerable. It isVietnam's soil and water has destroyed its long for judgment. I doubt if the vast acknowledge the horror. So long as this necessary to "turn confusion and remorsemoral standing in the world community and majority things of itself as totally innocent, situation prevails, most Americans will into the paths of healing." America wantsturned American protests about any other as being perfectly all right, if only it were continue to lie to th.emselves in order to keep once more to be able to pray in good con­injustice into ashes in the mouth. 
not for 'them'--for the blacks and hippies from hating themselves and will hate science for itself and for all mankind.A considerabely greater number of and other troublemakers. themselves because they have to lie." 
the observer Thursday, September 28, 1972 
Special look at occupations 
Job market for college graduates tightening 
difficulty in job adjustment" in the The association, made up of engineering occupations--even, those with Ph.D degrees, but more By Joseph P. Fried years immediately after college job-placement officers, over the long run, in aerospace limited for those with only (C) 1972 New York Times 
graduation than the graduate met at White Sulphur Springs, W. engineering, where it was noted master's degrees. labor academic has Va. that opportunities
New York A Federal whose work been "employment Among historians, it was 
less relevant. fluctuate periodically (and)
official has warned that the job predicted, new Ph.D recipientsThe official, Herbert Bienstock, Bienstock's talk was ac­currently openings may fall short
morket for college graduates is would encounter competition while likely to be tighter through the Middle Atlantic regional director companied by a chart outlining of the number seeking em­opportunities would be more of the Labor Department's Bureau employment prospects in the 1970's ployment."
1970's than in recent decades. favorable for experienced Ph. D's. As a result. he said, the job­of Labor Statistics, presented this in various occupations and 
New graduates considering
hunting college graduate shose outlook last Thursday at a con­professions for which a college In some professions, such as careers as elementary andference of the Middle Atlantic education is usually required.
studies have been most relevant to 
political science and sociology, secondary school teachers should the needs and requirements of the Placement Association and in an Prospects were I is ted as good in prospects were called good for (continued on page 9)
l<1bor mMket should find "less interview afterward. 
Estimated Aver•a• employ­annual 
Occup•bon ment openincs Estimated Aver..• employ­annual
1970 to 1980* Employment prospects• 
Occupation mont openinas 1970 to 1980 EmpJoynwnt prospects 
PROfESSIONAl AND RELATED OCCUPATIONS 
Dlatherms 30,000 2,300 Very good opportunrlres for both fuiHrme and part· 
-~--­
limP worl<ers due to expandmg programs 1n hosprtal
Business adm1n~str~i~ and relilted__,p_ro_l..:•.:.•::..•io.:.n_s_______________________ and nursmR facrlilres and 10 other mshtu\rons Account•nh 491,000 31.200 Excellent opportun1t1es. Strong demand for college tra1ned applicants. Graduates of busmess and other 
Hospital administrators 17,000 1,000 Very good opportun1t1es for those who have master's schools ollenng accountmg should have good degrees '" hospital admmrstrat1on. Applicants wrthout prospects. 
graduate \rammg will fmd rt rncreasrngly d1ff1cu1t to enter th1s freld.
AclvortiSIOI wortors 141,000 8,400 Slow growth. Opportunilles Will be good, however, for h1ghly qualif~ed applicants, espeCially '" advertising Medical laboratory workers 110,000 13,500 Excellent opportumlres for new graduates w1lh ba· agenctes. 
chelor's degrees rn med1cal technology. Demand wrll 
be particularly strong for those who have graduate
M•rl<oiNII ros..rch 100rl<ors 23,000 2,600 Ex.ellenl opportun~lles especrally for those who have graduate degrees. EX1st1ng marketmg research orgam· trammg m btochemtstry. mtcrobtology, tmmunology, zat1ons are expected to expand and new research de· 
and vrrology. 
partmenls and Independent firms set up. 
Medical record librarians 13,000 1,500 Excellent opportunrtres for graduates of approved 
Favorable outlook, especially for college graduates medrcal record llbranan programs. w1\h tra1omg 1n personnel admm1s\ra\lon. More work· Personnel workers 160,000 9,100 
Occupational therapists 7,500 1,150 Excellent opportunrt1es. Demand IS expected to ex· ers w1ll be needed for recrwtmg, mterv1ewmg, and ceed supply as rnterest '" the rehabrlitat1on of diS·psychological \estmg. 
abled persons and the success of established Pubhc relations workers 78,()(X) 4,400 Rap1d mcrease due to populatron growth and nse 1n occupational therapy programs mcreases. level of busmess ac\1v1ty. An 1ncreas1ng amount of 
Optometrists 18,000 800 Favorable outlook. By the m1d 1970's, new graduateslunds wrll be allocated to public relations work. 
may approXImate demand because of expected ex· pans1on of optometry schools. 
CleriYm•n Osteopathic physicians 13,500 . 950 Excellent opportunities. Greatest demand 1n states
Protest.Jnt ministers 295,000 9,700 Competttton keen tn some denomtnattons. Many clergy­where osteopathy IS Widely accepted as a method of men wrll fmd work 1n socral work. educat1on. and as treatment.
chaplarns wrlh I he Armed Forces. Podiatrists 7,000 250 Favorable opportunities for new graduates to es­
R•bbts 6,500 300 Number of rabbrs probably wrll be madequate. Growth tablish lherr own pract1ces as well as to enter salanedtn Jewtsh rehgtous affthatton and tn the number of syn­pos1t10ns 1n other pod1atnsts' offices. hospitals. ex· agogues. along w1th demand for rabb1s to worl< with tended care fac111t1es. and public health programs. 
soc1al welfare and other Jew1sh Jfhliated organJZa· t1ons. should continue. Pharmacists 129,000 5,160 Employment w1ll grow as a result of new drugs, 1n· creas1ng numbers of pharmac1es. and msurance plans
Rom.Jn Catholic pnesh 60,000 2,200 Growmg number needed. Number of pnests ordarned covenng prescnpt•ons. 
msuflrcrent to meet the needs of newly establiShed· panshes. expandmg colleges. and growth of the 
Physical therapists 15,000 1,600 Excellent prospects as demand continues to exceed Catholrc populat1on · 
supply. Increased publl~ recogmt1on of the Importance Conservatton occupJttons of rehab11itat1on w11l result 1n expanded programs to help the d1sabled. 
Foresters 22,000 1,000 Number of forestry graduates may more than meet demand Prtvate owners of ttmberland and forest 
Physicians 303,000 22,000 Shortage occupatiOn. Excellent opportunitieS for products tndustnes should employ tncreasmg numbers 
employment. as lim1ted capac1ty of med1cal schools 
restncts supply of new graduates.
of foresters Demand 1n the Federal Gover men\ is 
e<pected to remand stable. 
Veterinarians 25,000 1,500 Very good outlook. Supply Will be restncted by lim1ted 
capac1ty of schools of vetennary med1c1ne.
3,600 60 Declinmg employment opportunrlres 1n the Federal 
Government because sctenttftc and techmcal duttes 
Sanitarians 19,900 1,100 Very favorable opportun1t1es for college graduates.wrll be done 1ncreasrngly by natural screntJSts. The 
A bachelor's degree '" enwonmental health IS pre·decline w1ll be somewhat offset by mcreasrng employ· 
!erred. although a degree 1n one of the baSIC sc1ences ment opportumtles '"the prrvate sector generally IS accepted. 
Coun~ehng occupat1ons 
Speech patholoeists and Good opportun1t1es. espec1ally for those who have audioJoeists 22,000 2.200 completed graduate study. lncreasmg emphasrs on the
Emp~nt counsetor~ 8,000 1,100 Excellent opportun1t1es for those who have master's master's degree by Federal and state governmentsdegrees or e<penence rn Jhe f1eld. Graduates wrth Will limit opportunities at the bachelor's level. 
bachelor's degrees and 15 hours of counseimg·re· Ia ted coursed will lrnd favorable opportun1\1es rn state 
Mathematics and related occupations and local employment. 
Actuaries 5,200 300 Excellent opportunities. Strong demand for recent 
Rehoibtlrt.ihon counselors 13,000 1,600 Shortage occupatron. Excellent opportun~t1es for those CDIIege graduates who have backgrounds 1n mathe­who have graduate work rn rehabolitatron counseling matics and have passed actuarial exammaliOns. or '" related fJelds. 
Mathematicians 73,000 4,680 Favorable outlook for Ph.D. graduates to teach and 
Sc~ counselors 54,000 5,200 Very rap1d employment rncrease. reflectmg contmued do research. Because of the large number of mathe· growth of counselling serv1ces and some rncreases mat1c1ans protected to rece1ve bechelor's degrees. secondary school enrollments competition for entry pOS1t1ons wiW be keen. 
Engmeeoune occupations Statisticians 24,000 1,400 Very good opportun1t1es for new graduates and ex· perienced stat1Strc1ans 1n 1ndustry and government. 
Ar.ospMI IOC:Inltrs 65,000 1,500 Long· run outlook favorable but employment OPilOrtu· nrt1es fluctuate penod1cally. Currently, openmgs may Natural science occupations fall short of the number seeking employment. 
Gooloeists 23,000 300 Favorable prospects for graduates with advanced· Aancu"uralona1noors 13,000 600 Rapid mcrease due to the grow1ng mechanization of degrees; those who have bachelor's degrees probably farm operations. mcreas~ng emphasis on conservation 
Will face competition for entry poSittons. of resources. and the broadenmg use of agncultural products and wastes as mdustnal rww matenals. Geophysicists 8,000 500 Favorable outlook. especially for those who have 
graduate degrees. Geophysicists Will be needed to lliomodrul ""''"''" 3,000 operate h1ghly sophisticated eqwpment to f1nd con­
120 Excellent prospect for those who have graduate degrees. Increased research and development expend· 
cealed fuel and mmeral depoSits; explore the outer 1tures wrll create new Jobs 1n areas such as pros· 
atmosphere and space; and solve problems related to thet1cs. cybernetics. mstrumentat1on systems. com· 
water shortages. flood control. and pollution abatement. puler usage. and env11onmental pollution. 
Oceanoaraphers 5,400 300 Favorable QUtlook for those who have advanced de· C.r~m·c •nemeoen 10,000 300 Rapid rncrease rn reqwrements due to grow1ng use of grees. The 1mportance of the ocean in natrona! de­ceramiC matenals. nuclear' energy programs and elec· fense as well as a source of energy, mmerals, and tromcs as well as m consumer and 1ndustnal uses. food will open up new opportunities for specialists. 
---·-------~-------------------------
Chomrul onemoers 50,000 1,700 Moderate growth from expansiOn of the chemical 1n· Life sciiiiCe occupations dustry and large expenditures tor research and de· 
Biochemists 11,000 800 Good employment opportunity espec1ally for those
velopment Opportumt•es also wtll artse '" new areas who have Ph.D. degrees to conduct mdependent re· of work such as enwonmental control. 
search or to teach. The greatest growth w111 be 1n CNrl onarneers 185,000 10,000 Expandrng opportun1tres from growrng needs lor medical re~arch. hous1ng. mdustnal bUIIdmg. and highway transporta­
Life scientists 100,000 9,900 Rapid mcrease 1n employment through the 1970's.
tion systems. Urban enwonmental problems such as However. the number of life sc1ence graduates al50 arr pollut1on also should reqwre add1t10nal civil IS expected tO InCrease rapidly and result in keen COm­eng•neers. 
petitiOn for the more des~rable pos1t1ons. Those who 
[loctncat '"''"''" 235,000 12,200 Very rap1d growth related to demand for electrical hold advanced degrees. especially Ph.D's, should have equ1pment to automate and methanlle producllon less compet1\1on than those who hold bachelor's processes. espec1ally for 1tems such as computers and degrees. numerrcal controls for machme tools. and for electriCal 
--------------------~--------------------------­
Physical scientists and electronrc consumer goods. 
lndustn~l•n11neers 125,000 I 9,000 Very rap1d growth '" employment resulting from the Chemists 137,000 9,400 Favorable outlook. Chem1sts will contmue to be need· mcreasmg compleXIty of industnal operations, expan· to perform research and development work. They also sron of automated processes. and contmued growth of Will be needed to teach at colleges and un1versit1es. mdustnes. where the strongest demand will be for those who have Ph.D. degrees.
220,000 10,100 Raprd employment growth due Jo demand for in· dustnal machrnery and machme tools and rncreasmg Food scientists 7,300 400 Favorable employment outlook at all degree levels Jechnolog,cal complexrty of ~ndustnal machmery as a result of an expand1ng population demandmg a and processes. greater variety of quality convemence foods-both m 
and outside \he home. 
Met•leriK.il 1n11neer~ 10.000 500 Rapid 1ncrease '" number of worl<ers needed by the metalworking mdustnes to develop metals and new Physicists 43,000 3,500 Favorable oppor\unrt1es for those who have ad­alloys as well as adapt current ones to new needs. and vanced degrees to teach at colleges and un1ver­to solve metallurgiCal problems '" the effiCient use of SJtres. PhySicists will be requrred '" substantial num· 
nuclear energy bers to do complex research and development work. 
5.000 100 Favorable opportumt1es through the 1970's. The num· 
Social scientists Der of new graduates 1n m~nmg engmeenng entec1ng the mdustry may be fewer than the number needed to Anthropoloeists 3,100 200 Rap1d increase. especrally 1n the college teachmg replace those who retrre or dre field. Some poSitions w111 be found 1n museums,Ho•~ll_sorvrc_o occup~trons _ .. ~--------...:.::!:::::.::..::.::::c.:::.:::.:~.:::.:~::::..-------~ 
archeologiCal research programs. mental and pubhc health programs. and 1n commumty survey work 
16.000 900 Favorable outlook although only a small growth 1n demand rs e.pected. Antrcrpated number of new grad· Economists 33,000 2,300 Excellent opportun1t1es for those who have graduate uales wrll be rnadequate to fill openrngs. degrees 1n teachmg. government and bus1ness. Young 
people w1th bachelor's degrees wrll f1nd employment
103.000 5.400 Very good opportunrtres. lrm1ted capacrty of dental 1n Government and as management tra1nees '" In·schools w1ll restncl supply of new graduates. 
dustry and busmess 
9

Thursday, September 28, 1972' the observer 
Predictions for 1970's 
What are the job prospects in your major? 
Estimated  Averat~•  
Occupation  employ­ment  annual openines  
1970  to 1980  

Geocraphers 7,100 500 Favorable outlook. Demand w1ll be strong in teaching and research for those who have Ph. D.'s. Those who have master's degrees or less face competition. Col­leges and universities will offer the greatest number of opportunities, although employment is expected to rise in government and in pnvate industry. 
Historians 15,500 1,000 Favorable opportunities in teaching and archival work for experienced Ph.D. New Ph.D. rec1pients and those with lesser degrees will encounter competition; teaching positions available for those meeting cer­tification requirements. 
Political scientists 1,100 700 Very good prospects for those who have Ph. D. degrees and are interested m college teaching. More limited prospects for those With master's degrees or less. 
Sociololists  12,000  800  Good prospects for th_ose who have Ph.D. degrees but those with only master's degrees will face consider­able competitiOn. Very good opportunities in college teaching and in nonteaching fields dealing with SOCial and welfare problems and the implementation of leg­ISlation to develop human resources.  
Teachers  

Coll•l• and university teachers 335,000  10,800  Good employment prospects at 4-year colleges for those who have Ph.D. degrees and at 2-year colleges for those who have master's degrees. New Ph.D.'s will face stronger competition for openings as their numbers grow each year.  
Kindercarten and elementary schoolteachers 1,260,000  52,000  New graduates may face keen competition for jobs during the 1970's. Young people seeking their first teaching assignment w111 find schools placing greater emphasis on their academic work and the quality of their training. Nevertheless, employment opportunitieS may be very favorable in urban ghettos, rural distncts, and in geographiC areas where teaching salanes are low and better paying opportunities are available in other fields. The outlook also will be favorable for teachers who are  
trained to work w1th handicapped children. Many stu­dents, however, who are preparing for elementary teaching as a career will have to direct their studies toward other careers. ·  

Secondary schoolteachers 1,015,000 38,000 
Opportunities will be very favorable in some geo­graphic areas and in subJect fields such as the physical sciences. Increased demand for teachers trained in the education of mentally retarded or physically handicapped children is expected. Nevertheless, if past trends of entry and re-entry continue, the supply of secondary teachers will Significantly exceed requirements. 
Wntinc occupations  
Newspaperreporlers  39,000  1,650  favorable opportunities for young people with excep­tional talent and ability to handle news about highly specialized and technical sUbJects. Weekly or daily newspapers 1n small towns and suburban areas offer the most opportunities for beg1nners.  
Technicalwriters  20,000  1,000  Good prospects for those having college courses in wnting and techn1cal subJects plus writing ability.  

Other professional and related occupations  
Airlinedispatchers 1,200 60 Few openings because field is very small.  
Architects 33,000 2,700 Favorable opportun1t1es for registered arch1tects.  
Growth 1n non-residential as well as residential con­ 
struction. Homeowners' grow~ng awareness of the  

Estimated  Averat~•  
Occupation  employ­ment  annual openines  
1970  to 1980  Employ"""! prospects  

College career planning and placement counselors  2,800  200  Very rap1d mcrease 1n employment as students and colleges mcrease 1n number and as greater recogn1t1on  
IS_g,ven to the need for counseilng-espec1ally of  
m1nonty group students and students of low 1ncome  
families.  

Homeeconomists  105,000  6,700  Favorable prospects. Greatest demand for teachers.  
but busmess also should mcrease demand for thoese  
workers espeCially 1n researCh and development.  
Industrial desieners  10,000  300  Favorable opportun1t1es for talented colleg_e graduates.  
Those With trainmg '" mdustnal des1gn may face com­ 
petition from architectural and engmeermg graduates  
who have art1st1c talent.  

Lawyers 280,000 14,000 
Good prospects 1n salaned pos1t1ons w1th well­known Law f: .•ns and as law clerks to 1udges for graduate,. of outstandmg law schools. or for those who rank h1gh 1n the" classes. Growth 1n demand w111 stem from busmess expansion and the mcreased use of legal serv1ces by low and m1ddle mcome groups. 
librarians  125,000  11,500  Good opportunities, espec1ally 1n school llbranes for those who have advanced degrees.  
Psycholocists  40,000  3,700  Excellent opportunities for those who have a doctor· ate; less favorable for those with only a master's degree. Strong demand 1n mental hospitals, correc­tional institutions, mental hyg1ene cliniCS and com­munity health centers.  

Social workers  170,000  18,000  Very good prospects for those wh& have tra101ng 1n city and bachelor's degrees m social w<trk. Many part­time jobs for qualified women With expenence.  
Systems analysts  100,000  22,700  Excellent opportunities due to rap1d expans1on of electron~c data processmg systems 1n busmess and government.  
Underwriters  55,000  2,740  Favorable opportunities especially areas.  '"  metropolitan  

Urllan planners 88,000  750  Very good prospects for those who have trammg 1n city and regional plann~ng. ConstrjiC!IOn of new c1ties and towns. urban renewal protects, and beautlf<cation and open space land Improvement proJects w1ll spur demand for these workers.  
MANAGERIAL OCCUPATIONS  

Bank officers  174,000  11,000  Employment is expected to grow rap1dly as the m­creased use of computers enable banks to expand their services.  
City manat~ers  2,600  200  Excellent opportun1t1es especially for persons w1th master's degrees 1n public or mun1c1pal admmlstra­tions.  
Manaeers and assistants (hotel)  195,000  14,400  Favorable outlook, especially for those who have co}lege degrees in hotel admm1strat1on.  

SALES OCCUPATIONS 
Manufacturers salesmen 510,000 25,000 Favorable opportunities for well-tramed workers, but competition will be keen. Best prospects for those trained tohandletechn1cal products. 
Securities salesmen 200,00 11,800 Good opportunltle>. 
SERVICE OCCUPATIONS 
F.B.I. special agents 7,900 Employment expected to nse as FBI respons1b11it1es grow. Turnover rate IS trad1t1onally low. 
Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics 
valueofarchltects'serv<cesalsowlllspurdem:=a~nd:·---------------~================================j 



Job opportunities 
(continued from page 8) 
think twice, the chart indicated, because the job opportunities available, over all are expected to be far fewer in these professions than the number of people ex­pected to seek them. 
In discussing the general 
tightening of the job market an­
ticipated for university graduates 
in this decade, Bienstock said it 
was expected that the nation's 
labor market would be seeking 
about 9'6 million such graduates. 
But at the same time, he said, 
some 9.8 million persons with 
university degrees may enter the 
job market in the decade. 
The 9.8 million figure, he said, 
comprises a projected 9.2 million 
new graduates and 600,000 more 
persons with university degrees 
who are expected to join the labor 
market as "re-entrants, delayed 
entrants or immigrants." 
Bienstock said that the projected 
Enrollments of degree-seeking students are expected to rise 47.7 per cent during the 1970's, his statistics show. 
Bienstock·· himself the father of two college students struggling through the jungle of career possibilities said that when labor-market demand for college graduates was high, the questionof academic studies relevant to the job market was not so pertinent. 
In these periods, he explained, graduates whose studies have been little related to job-market needs have had relatively little trouble finding entry-type or trainee-type jobs having no direct relationship to their academic work. 
But where supply and demand are closer, such movement into the labor market may become more restricted "and the issue of relevant academic preparation becomes more significant," he said. 
"close balance" between the r----------------. demand for college graduates and their supply did not reflect an 
Sweeney's Shamrock 
expected decline in demand for employees with a college degree. 
Bar Waiter Wanted 
Rather, he said, the close balance 
for Fri. nite & Sat.
results from the sharp increase projected in college enrollments. 
PEP RALLY Tonight outside the 
ALUMNI CLUB 
(Followed by a visit from the Falstaff man) Club open till 12:00 
.See all of your favorites: Cheerleaders, a Viking? & more. Fri. Someone remembers Purdue, Bars, & Beer----Help Him R~minisce (Details Tomqrrow) 

I everything you always wanted to know about 


Be Aware 
Get your own subscription to TIME at special student rates. At the bookstore or through the TIME representative on campus. 
BRIAN KELLY 283-8323 
117 Pangborn 
.• 
... 

the observer Thursday, September 28, 1972 
Placement Bureau open house set for today 
by Luppino 
Today and tomorrow from I :30 to 4:30, the Placement Bureau is opening its doors on the second floor of the Administration Building to all students and faculty who would like to become familiar with the facilities available there. 
The open house provides seniors and grad students the opportunity to make appointments for the first two weeks, Oct. 9 through Oct. 20, of interviews with employer and grad school representatives. For information regarding which employer and grad school representatives will be there and when, students should check the Placement Manual distributed by the Bureau. 
The Placement Bureau will have on display its interview rooms and information facilities, contacting materials on jobs and graduate schools. The bureau has a small library of graduate school bulletins and employment information. The purpose of the information center in the Placement Bureau, ac­cording to Richard Willemin, bureau director, is to make the graduate school bulletins and employment materials more easily available than they would be if scatteredthroughout the library. 
Also at the open house today is a representative from Action-Peace Corps-Vista in room 223. 
Willemin hopes that students will take advantage of this opportunity to see what his office offers to those seeking employment or further education. Refreshments will be served at the open house. 
Willemin also-expressed concern over the number of students who have signed up for the Grad II computer matching program. The Grad II program matches the qualifications, abilities and in­terests of students with the available jobs which employers submit to the program. Ap­plications can be filled out at the 
, Placement office through Friday morning. So far less than 250 students have signed up for the program. Results of the matching will be available Monday, October 16. 
Seek student support lor Farah boycott 
by Pam Gavelda Observer Staff Reporter 
A nationwide boycott of the Farah Mfg. Co., one of the nation's largest manufacturers of men's and boys' pants, is seeking studeqt 
support. 
Farah factory workers, mainly Mexican~ Americans, attempted to form a labor union with the support of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America. 
The company fired the leading union activists, according to the Citizens Committee for Justice for Farah Workers (CCJFWl. Three 
thousand workers walked off the job on May 3 to protest this action and l<'arah responded by placing guards with unsmuggled police dogs on patrol. 
The company also obtained an order from the local officials requiring pickets to remain 50 feet apart. 

Stock market mini-course 
A four-session course, "Strategy for Today's Stock Market," will be presented during October in the Center for Continuing Education at the University of Notre Dame by l<'ranklyn R. and Alice B. Bonnet, LaPorte, Ind. investment o;ppcialists. 
SPssions will begin at 7 p.m. October 4 and each Wednesday of the month. The course is open to all persons interested in basic stock market fundamentals and in the investment of savings for safety, income and growth. 
Topics to be covered by the LaPorte couple include "Dow and Other Market Theories," "For­mula to Determine the Intrinsic Value of a Security," "Market Indicators to Determine the Position in the Stock Cycle," and "Charts and Their Usefulness." 
Honnet is a certified public accountant with executive ex­perience for such companies as General Motors, Carborundum and General Time. Both he and his wife have extensive experience as educators in the financial field and conduct a daily radio show on the stock market in LaPorte. 
Hegistration for the course may be completed by contacting Lee Pacholke, coordinator for the course, at (219) 283-7005 before 5 
p.m. daily. 
Although the strikers caused no Normal bail for the allegeddisorder or violence, yet over 700 
violations is $25, but the workers pickets have been arrested on this wer_e each charged $400 bail. 
charge. Mme were raided and arrested in their homes in the Although the Federal Govern­middle of the night. ment has already found the Farah 
~--------------------------------------------------~ 

Budget requests 
During the academic year 1971-72, the student Government allocated $15,000.00 from its operating funds to thirteen campus organizations. It is possible that a limited sum may again be available for distribution among various campus clubs. In addition, ap­proxif!!ately $1,50_0.00_ in Mardi Gras Funds remain and may be ap­plied lor by orgamzatwns that qualify atl Mardi Gras charities. 
There exists no set of criteria to guide us, but service to the llniversity community number of students involved, and the like, are e<.'rtain to influence the distribution of these funds. Budget-funding n•quests--in the form of an item1zeustatement of anticipated income and expenses must be filed with the Student Body Treasurer before 
12:00 noon, Friday Sept. 29 1972. This statement must bear the signature and telepnone number of an authorized group spokesman who will be available to appear at a budget committee meeting on October 2, 1972. Student Government grants and Mardi Gras grant rPquests must be filed separately. 
On _b~half ?f Student Government, I wish you every success in youractJvitJes th1s comming year. 
Hespectfully, 
Mike Marget 
Student Body Treasurer company guilty of unfair labor practices for firing union sym­pathizers, the company fired 24 more union supporters a month after the strike began. 
Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America launched the nation­wide boycott of Farah pants, with the support of the CCJFW. 
India-na gubernatorial and congressional candidates had no comment or stand on the issue due t() lack of information. 
Students comprise a large segment of Farah buyers. Therefore, any student action would have a significant effect on the success or failure of the boycott, according to Emily Penzell, student-youth coor­dinator for CCJFW. 
If interested in helping, contact Ms. Penzell, Citizens Committee for Justice for Farah Workers, 112 
E. 19th St., Room 1104, New York. 
The Bureau is regularly open from 8 am until 12 noon and from I pm until 5 pm Monday throughFriday. 

If you liked "BUTCH CASSIDY & THE SUNDANCE KID," you'll like 
IGeorate Segal aCo. 

blitz the museum, blow the jail, )last the police station, break the bank and heist 


1beHotRock 
................. almost 
COLOR by DE LUXE® 
[!;Pi<OJ 
STARTS TOMORROW. PHONE 288-8488 for Times and Directions 








GOLDENOLDIE 


Love tap. 
From one beer lover to another. 
Bob Dylan &Joan Rae'£ in Zimmerman 
r Com~ 
! lOrn \\\Jife ) inWatts, 
·.~ and along· \·~, SIIJIPI'CS.\Cd .~ Rolling 
< Stones ~t album 
Those fabulous Sixties 
Relive wUh us lhe fun-filled days of lhaJ dizzy decade: lhe zany assassi­nations, lhe kooky cull murdei'S, lhe colorful race riots, lhe amusing re· pressions, lhe meaningless drug deaths, the madcap war in Vietnam, and the pointless pop cullure. All of il in lhe October issue of lhe National LamP.oon, aJ your local newsstand. 

Opens Howard Hall series 
Hofman recreates big band era 
by Sue Prendergast Observer Staff Reporter 
Strains of Benny Goodman, Louis Armstrong, and Tommy Dorsey drifted across the South 
After the federal government closed Storeyville (the brothel section), its musicians moved north to St. Louis, Kansas City, Chicago, and New York. Many joined larger bands playing in more respectable places. 
played, the 10 top songs on the hit parade, and the line-up of Benny Goodman's band," HoLman declared. 
The "most important single event in initiating the big band era" came in 1937, when Benny recordings by its members. Quality of musicianship fell im­mediately. Rationing and military service during World War II also contributed to the death of big bands. 
a doubt, the very best organization today -the Fifth Dimension." 
When asked to comment on today's dance forms also, Ho "fman said, "I honestly think we had a better arrangement for dancing ::-I don't see much point in standing 6 
Quad last night as Dr. Emil T. 
Ho fman. chemistry professor and 
Freshf!lan Year dean, brought to 
life once more the era of big bands 
and jazz musicians. 
Hof man enlivened his 
discussion of the rise and fall of the 
big bands with cuts from his record 
collection of "a few thousand" and 
anecdotes from his personal ex­
periences. "I've lived through 
most of this era, and each record 
brings back a specific memory­
time, person, place," he mused. 
Hofman's other side 
Most commonly known on campus for his weekly chemistry quizzes, Hofman showed another side to the 35 students gathered in the Howard Hall chapel. 
Before beginning his description of "what it was like to be living at the time of your parents," Hof ­man related his debut as a music lecturer. 
While attending a Farley Hall "bash," complete with acid rock, Hof man remarked that he would like to play and explain his music to the students in return for a reciprocal discussion of rock. 
Speaking in Farley several months later, Hof man kept his bargain, but "they <the students) never followed through on their part," he remarked, somewhat regretfully. 
The notoriety resulting from this appearance led to speaking in­vitations from other organizations, including the Ladies of Notr> Dame and the Glee Club. 
Birth of jazz 
Opening the Howard Hall lecture 
series, Hof man traced the 
development of big bands from 
their origins in New Orleans jazz to 
their demise during World War II. 
He avoided defining jazz, saying 
that "if you have to define it, forget 
it." but described several factors 
which affected its development: 
rhythmic African chants which 
combined with Negro spirituals 
and European brass band sounds 
to form blues; Negro jazz 
funerals; and the New Orleans 
brothel section, which provided 
work for the first jazz musicians. 
Transcendental lecture today 
by Tom Drape Observer Staff Reporter 
Transcendental Meditation will be the subject of a lecture tonight in room 205 O'Shaughnessy at 8 
p.m. The lecture is sponsored and presented by a student committee consisting of 70 St. Mary's, Indiana U., and Notre Dame students. 
Charles Swiszcez the co­ordinator of the presentation and the three campuses involved. Swiszcez is a sophomore in A.L. 
Defined as a method of allowing the mind to be drawn automatically to the deepest and most refined level of thinking, transcendental meditation was first introduced by the Beatles. Developed by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi, the technique has been, up to now, used by young people. 
Meditation is now popular for businessmen and housewi-ves alike. The benefits of 1 Tran­scendental Meditation are being found in the areas of better health, greater creativity, happiness, inner peace, and more enjoyable social relations. 
Big band sound 
These bands gradually adopted the rhythm and style of New Orleans jazz, "but instead of permitting the musicians to play freely, they wrote orchestration." 
Paul Whiteman, sometimes "misleadingly" called the father of American jazz, was one of the first to include jazz ideas in his band. Whiteman's hit "Whispering," recorded in 1920, marked a milestone in the development of popular music. 
, "Looking back on it, we wonder why," Hof"man commented. "But this represented an arrangement specially done, including the rhythm developed down South -it was different from a chorus played ov~r and over." 
After the repeal of Prohibition and the gradual lifting of the Great Depression, big bands finally came into their own in the 1930's. 
"There were 3 things every kid could recite: the number of consecutive games Lou Gehrig Goodman's band played the feet apart, twitching at each

Views on today
Paramount Theater in New York. other." 
Hof ·man recalled this period: "I Looking around at the audience, think I spent every Monday of my Concluding his discussion, Hofman remarked, "You've been entire sophomore year in Times Hof 'man named the groups he felt so attentive, it seems a waste not to Square, listening to the bands." were making the greatest impact give a quiz. But it's back to 
Like the earlier bands, the big on today's music: "Simon and business as usual on Friday bands (consisting of 8-16 Garfunkel, of course, and, without morning." musicians) played orchestrations, but these arrangements contained breaks filled by improvised soloes. 
As students listened quietly to 


CLASSIFIED ADS
Benny Goodman, Arty Shaw, Tommy Dorsey, and Glen Miller, 
Hof man speculated that thousands of musicians were 
WANTED 
probably rolling over in their graves. "This music was meant to 
Need ride. East (1-80 or Pa. Tpk.l Oct. 7 or 8. Sunday preferred.
be danced to." 
Destination Phila. Call 6865. 
Wanted: secretary, must type 
and take shorthand. 6-12 hours 
per week. Apply OBSERVER, 
salary negoitable. 
End of an era 
Only a few short years after its 
Wanted: chest of drawers. Call
birth, the big band era was over. 
John 272-2977. 
What happened'? In 1941 the American Society of Composers, 
Roommate needed. Own bedroom. $45 month. 234·3592
Artists, and Publishers banned 
evenings. Close to campus.
from radio all songs under their control, and the American 
Wanted: 4 general admission tix for Pitt. Call John 8810.
Federation of Musicians banned 
Need 2 Michigan tix. Will pay higher prices. Call 6768. 
Please! need one general ad 
mission Pittsburgh ticket. Cal 
5312. 
To exchange · 2 Purdue gen. ad. field tickets for any other two tix. Pat 6733. 
Badly need 4 Missouri tickets. 
Bill 233-9032. 
SEX . just wanted to get your attentio'n. Need three student tickets for Purdue. Need not be together; will pay your price. Call Kirk 6984. 
Need ride to Iowa west on 80-Oct. 5 Call 4625 or 4449. 
Needed: 4 tickets, Purdue game, general admission. Call 259·3297. 
Wanted: part-time legal secretaries to assist small law firm. General practice. Inquire: 920 South Bend Avenue; 234-3216. 
Need Purdue tickets. General 
admission or student. Call Frank 
8825 or Ed 8463. 
Need any number Purdue tickets. 
Call Jim 287·0900. Leave 
message. 
1966 Alia-Romeo GSGT fresh engine · never raced new W-0 radials · drive to believe. $2000. John 8927. 
Two tickets for sale to Chicago concert. Section 15. Interested persons call Tom 233-4202. 
CHEAPER THAN LEASING! NEW Westinghouse compact refrigerators. 4.4 cubic ft. capacity, factory warranty, Wynne's Refrigeration Co. 234· 0578. 
For Sale: one senior football ticket. Call 232-0151 after 9 pm. Reasonable price! 
For Sale: '71 Honda CL350 ex­cellent cond. & 1!2 year insurance $650. 1339. 
Two Michigan State tickets for sale, or trade for Purdue tickets. 
Norm 1502. 
LOST 

Stolen 10 speed ICITOH yellow With black handle bars & seat. Boys bike REWARD. Call P. Steele 4809. 
PERSONALS 

Happy St. Patrick's day, Happy Hannechauh, congratulations. I love you, yes we offer candles. For all occasions. Call Kevin or Mike, 2127, 2103, 7747 Room 228, 201, St. Joe Hall. 
Happy birthday Pat! If you got any last night SMILE! 
FOR RENT 

ROOMS for football weekends close to Notre Dame $5 per nite. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 
Furnished house close to N D suitable for 4 students, available Oct. 15th phone 272-1159. 
Available: 2motel rooms in South Bend motel for night of Oct. 13 (Pitt weekend). Call John 8810. 
NOTICES 

Typing: Essay-term paper. thesis-desertation-technical or research report-we do them professionally, efficiently, and reasonably. Expert Secretarial Service. 233-9466 or 233·3257. 
Nixon has a "secret" plan to end the war. He is going to vote for McGovern. 
Bored over Christma? Try Europe. An unbelievable $190 round trip. Call Clark 283·8810 for details. 
STUDENT DRUG IN­FORMATION CENTER has been relocated. Come to rm 219 in the library for any drug counseling or info. Mon Fri, 7-9pm. Or call 232· 8867. 
The Pitt Club is sponsoring a trip to the PITTSBURGH PIRATES. CINCINNATI REDS PLAYOFF on Saturday, October 7. All those interested in attending the game, whether your'e from Pittsburgh or Cincinnati, please call Jim 8371 or Pat 8422 before Thursday. 
Morrissey Loan Fund Open. Borrow up to $150. 11:15-12:15 Monday Othru Friday. La Fortune 
Basement. 
DR. STRANGELOVE is coming . Fri. at 9 & 11 pm, Sun. at 7 & 9 pm in the Engineering Auditorium. 
words lda 2da 3da 4da 5da 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11·15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21·25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36·40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 

.J 
Call: 234-3763 (after Spm) of Arch Building Room 404 Class begins Thursday Sept. 28. 
Need 2-5 TCU general admission tickets. Call Tom 1387. 
Wanted: 2 Missouri general admission tickets. Will pay your price. Maria 1715 or 5166. 
Need Missouri tix: 2 student, 2 general admission. Tim 1678. 
Friend needs ride to Conn·NYC after Purdue game, If your friends, parents are driving out this weekend, call 3508. 
Need ride to MSU Fri. Oct. 6 help on gas. Call Ken at 6772. 
Opponent for postal chess wanted. 
Contact Jim Meyers, P.0. Box 695, The Western College, Oxford, 0. 45056. 
Need two roomates: furnished 2 bedroom apt $60 each a month. Call Tom or Pete 233-4202. 
Wanted: 2 Purdue tickets, will pay well, call Bill at 1047. 
NEED 3 PURDUE TICKETS. CALL FRED 3118. 
WANTED: 10 speed girl's bike. Will pay $90-95 CASH!! Call 4959. 
Need 4 G.A. tix to TCU game. Mike 7883. 
Riders to Kent, Ohio Fri, Sept. 29. Ken 8810. 
Need 2 tickets to Chicago Con­cert! Any section is O.K. Please call Jan at 4679. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: Gibson electric guitar. Ca II 283-1620. 
GETTING COLD FEET when you awake? New and lower prices on carpet. Shags and low loops in the rainbows colors. Call Kevin or Mike, 2127, 2103, 7747. 
the observer Thursday, September 28, 1972
12 
Eric Penick --not a grid soloist 
Penick, not one to forget people the first-year signal caller. "He 
by Stan Urankar who have helped him, remembers really keeps us up. No matter how his tutelage under his coach at the play goes, he's always hustling, Gilmour, Vern Weber. "Mr. Weber always pushing and encouraging
Experts say that championships 
really got me going on life in us. He's a great leader." 
are won through team effort. If this gener~l," Eric n~ted. "He told ~e "Mike <Creaneyl has to be thestatement is a valid assumption, that I JUSt couldn t hope to surv_Ive most underrated player in thethen Eric Penick must be an ex­on football_ or track f~r my hfe, country. He's a dependablepert. Notre Dame's hard-running then once It \'\;'as by, JUSt hve on receiver, and his blocking is justsophomore halfback would shrug 
those memones. I had_ to be fantastic. People just don't sayany individual laurels to have a someone, kno~ some~hu~g, ~0 enough about him."
hand in claiming an Irish NCAA somewhere. I m maJormg mnational championship ranking. ' business, and, sure I'd like to play Nine games are left for the 1972"You've got to have athletes who pro ball, but I don't just want to be edition of Irish football, but therewant to win together," Penick a jock. I've got to be somebody." are still two seasons worth aftercommented. "I'm working for 
that for the star runner. "We've
Eric doesn't excel solely on theNumber One, and I know everyone 
got one, and now we need nine
gridiron. With clockings of 9.5 inelse is. I haven't had a 10-0 season 
more," reads the Penick
the 100-yard dash and 20.6 in thesince my sophomore year in high 
philosophy. "It's all a team game
220-yard sprint, he raced to Ohioschool, and then I didn't even play State AA championships in both now. When everyone works
much. I want another one now." 
events as a junior and senior at properly together, we win. We'vePenick ranked as one of the most Gilmour. Then, just for a little got to keep going, and keep win­versatile athletes in Ohio, and was variety, he gave the 440 a try and ning ... together." You can bet Eric sought after by every major school took the state title in that distance Penick will keep on trying.
in the country. "I finally boiled it 
ill~······--·A~i>id···the rush! ~ 

down to three... Nebraska, Michigan, and Notre Dame," replied the 6-1, 200 lb. speedster. "Notre Dame impressed me the most because they were really straight forward, no big hard-sell routine. Every place else said 'You'll play, you're great.' Not Notre Dame." 
"Coach said it was up to the individual to work hard, and make the lineup. You have to work hard, and want to do it. I liked that." 
Eric was motivated to work even harder when old Gilmour Academy classmates continually reminded him of the progress of his former prep backfield mate, 
» I 
~ I 
~ ~ 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
"I really like track, but right 
JV netmen
Dave Janasek, now a sophomore now, I don't know what I can do fullback at Pittsburgh. Both with it in the future. I have a lot of Penick and Janasek ran for better work in business, and football, in than 1,000 yards in their junior and the spring and fall, both take up so 
romp, 8-0 
senior seasons, and both were much time. Right now, I'm just not 
highly touted as potential major sure about track." 
Notre Dame's junior varsity
college stars. 
An adamant supporter of the tennis team racked up eight"Everyone was always saying Irish offense, coach Parseghian, straight set singles victories while that Dave was tearing up at Pitt," Notre Dame stars Tom Clements drubbing Inidana University atPenick remembered. "They were and Mike Creaney, Penick is Fort Wayne Tuesday.
always telling me how he was 
continually giving plaudits to hisgoing to be starting, and would be teammates and instructors. "I Mike O'Donnell, Chris Amato,great. Man, that just made me love Notre Dame's offense," he Bill Sturm, Barry Andrew, Pat want to work all the harder. Dave's remarked. "Coach Parseghian is Murphy, David Wheaton, Bob a real close friend, but I just knew 
IIrish Sports Weeklyl
an advocate of a consistent Johnson and Chip Turner allthat if he was starting, I had to be thinking unit, where all the players recorded wins as the Irish netmenstarting, too." 
work as a group, for the success of gained their third triumph without Penick made that starting berth the group. Man, I don't want to a loss this fall.
when the whistle sounded for the gain 2000 yards or score 500 pointsopening of the Northwestern game, unless I know it 'II make us Number
but the 37-0 trouncing that the Irish One." Jayvee football 
Will be available 
handed Alex Agase's Wildcats is 
now over and done with. "You "My position is good because I 
can't live in past glory," says have the chance to do a lot of schedule slated 
Penick. "We beat Northwestern, can run
things," Eric added. "I 
tonight
and we beat them bad. But that's either up the middle, or get outside Notre Dame's varsity reserves, gone. Purdue is next, and now we to use my speed. Besides, blocking under the direction of Dennis want to beat them just as bad." is an important part, too. If Darryll Murphy, will open a five-game
Though the sea,son opener is by (Dewan l or the fullback (either schedule Friday against the the wayside, Eric still will John Cieszkowski or Andy Huff) Michigan JV's in Ann Arbor. at remember parts of it for quite a gets the ball, I have to make sure Kickoff time in Michigan
while. "The first touchdown was and move the man in the way. Stadium is scheduled for 1pm
the greatest. All I could think of There are so many things that I'm <E.S.T.l' 
was now we've got to get another, responsible for, and I have to make With the new NCAA policy of 
the dining halls 
right away." 
sure I succeed at all of them." allowing freshmen to be eligible"But, I couldn't help it when I 
for varsity competition in both 
scored. I just thought 'I scored. I 
football and basketball, most
"Tommy <Clements) is super atscored a touchdown ~t Notre 
major schools in the country have 
quarterback," Penick noted about Dame.' It was great." 
switched from a freshmen program to a junior varsity situation. 
I ]U:Iy~~=/~UEI I
Irish booters blanked, 3-0 
And from all indications, Murphy will play a freshmen­
.Just as football coach Ara man-to-man arrangement that 
j~~~ 1 18meater -$1.50 on campus/ :~ll
sophomore squad against the
Parseghian is preparing his squad Zoske brought with him when he 
Wolverines Friday. "This should 
to take on Purdue, soccer coach began his tenure as head coach is 
be a boost for a lot players who are ~~~ $3.00 by man "lllArno Zoske is preparing a similar becoming the foundation for the 
unable to play in the varsity
reception for the Boilermakers' team's future hopes. 
games," said Murphy.
hooters. One bright spot in Goshen's ii~~ 1 year -$2.75 on campu/ :iii
Murphy, because of the early
After a disappointing 3-0 loss to victory was the inspired play of 
date in the season, is still uncertain 
Goshen last Tuesday Coach Zoske t $8.00 by mall 1
sophomore Shaun Carroll--who who will play at Michigan.may have found the right com­exemplifies the type of player that Michigan's JV's opened their
bination to give the Irish hooters a Purdue will encounter. season with a 16-9 win over ~~~~ DeUYered to· your door !iiivictory over their perennial "Carroll fits perfectly into the Michigan State.
nemesis. t ~--d .,. • ~!~!
man-to-man," Zoske commented. Murphy, starting his third .;.; ~ "o. :·:·
Zoske commented that 
"He can play any position and is season as either the freshman or' I Tuesday's loss was the result of always hustling." junior varsity head coach, will be !~!~ T.he Observer Notre .Dmne. Incl. n
defensfve assignment lapses which 
f ... The Irish game plan demands assisted by Greg Blache, Larry
Goshen was quick to take ad­ball control, and the Goshen game Ballinger and former Irish All­
vantage of, and an inconsistent proved that the soccer team can American Larry DiNardo, now in Name 
offense which was unable to get 
exert that control, even in defeat. law school at Notre Dame. any breaks. With the control and consistence The Irish will also play at Address
Practices over the last few days against Purdue that was lacking in Michigan State October 20 whilehave indicated that these problems 
their defeat, the Notre Dame hosting Michigan and MSU Oc­are very close to resolution, and hooters are confident ofa fictory. tober 27 and November 3the long shots of the Goshen game The match will begin at 10:00 respectively. The finale ishave been replaced by short power a.m. on the field behind Stepan November 11, in Knoxville against shots from inside. Defensively, the Center. 
the Tennessee frosh. 
L~~~~«---=<~=·M~J 




