-~ -----~---------------­
On The Inside 
Congress overrides veto ... page 2 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII, No. 30 Thursday, October 19, 1972 

Professors square off 
•

Economic 1ssues debated 
by John Abowd Transfer payments include welfare, unem­Editor-in-ch·il'f ployment insurance and social security benefits. Lonergan's defense 
Defenders of Nixononics squared off qgainst Lonergan defended the Nixon was policies by the defenders of McGovernomics in the library citing several of the presidents major ac­auditorium last night. The central issue was the complishments. success or failure of President Richard Nixon's He noted that the Consumer Price Index was domestic economic policies. at a rate of 6.1 percent in 1969 while it is rising at 
Over three hundred people heard Dr. John a rate of only 2.9 percent now. Houck. professor of management, and Dr. Ken "When President Nixon was inaugurated the Jameson. assistant professor of economics, on United States had the highestt rate of inflation of the McGovern side take on John Lonergan, any major industrial naiton in the free world. t•conomics graduate student and Dr. James Today, it has the lowest," Lonergan said. Hakowski, associate professor of economics. Lonergan, who was a businessman in the South Lonergan and Rakowski defended the Nixon Bend area before he entered graduate school, policies. also defended Nixon's budget appropriations. 
!Iouck and Jameson lost the flip of the coin that He noted that in 1968 45 percent of the federal determined which side would speak last. Houck budget was defense spending while "just 32 opPned the debate. percent of the 1968 budget (was spent) on so 
called "Great Society' programs." Defense spending Changes "Jawboning" "The 1973 budget calls for a defense segment 
Charging that the critical problem which faced of only 32 percent of the total vs. 45 percent in the Nixon administration when it took office was 1968 and a 41'2 billion lower absolute amount than inflation. Houck argued that Nixon should have the 1968 figure. Defense accounted for 9.3 per­"jawboned" labor and management in order to cent of Gross National Product <GNP) when cap the 6 percent rate of inflation which Prsident Nixon took office. It now accounts for prPvailed when he took office. 6.8 percent of GNP. Human resource programn 
"Jawboning" refers to the use of presidential in 1973 call for 45persent of expenditures instead prestige to persuade unions and corporations not of only 32 percent in 1968. The allocation for the to make inflationary settlements. Department of Health, Education and Welfare, 
"InstPad Richard Nixon signaled that there 79 billion, alone for the first time exceeds that for would b(" no jawboning and no controls and that the Department of Defense, 75.9 billion," management and labor could get just about what Lonergan said. they thought they could get," Houck said. The Nixon defender also accused the 
According to the management professor the "Democratically controlled" Congress of absence of jawboning, and the large federal refusing to act on major economic legislation deficit caused by the Vietnam war " resulted in including wel~re reforms and national health thP credit crunch of 1970, the recession of 1970-71 care insurance. and the rise in unemployment to 6 percent." 
(continued on pg. 5) 
In came redistribution 
Houck further charged that Nixon's wage and price controls initiated in August, 1971 came too late and resulted in a further erossion of the tax base. He called the elimination of the 
Highlights of the debate
automobile surcharge "indefensible." Income distribution was also a major topic in 
NIXON MCGOVERN
Houck's speech. Noting Lhat income distribtuion has not changed significantly between 1950 and 
--real growth in GNP up (GNP increased --priority on full employment (unem­
1970. the pro McGovern speaker said "we have 
by 8.9 percent in the last quarter)
had a period of immense economic growth in the ployment reached 6 percent consistently 1950's through 1970 and we have not changed the during the Nixon administration) 
--significant decreases in inflation (from
ratio <of income> distribution which indicates 
6.1 percent in 1968 to 2.9 percent in 1972)
that the difference between the bottom 20 per­--equity in income distribution (the lowest cent and the top 20 percent, which was about 20 percent of the population receives 
--absolute reduction in defense spending
10.000 in 1950 is about 20,00 in 1970." only 5.5 percent of the nations income) 
(down 4112 billion dollars from 1968)
Houck added that the McGovern economic 
program of "full employment," subsidies for --closing tax loopholes to yield $22 billion in --successful devaluation of the dollar additional revenue
"certain low paying jobs," job retraining, and trans£, er payments would favor income redistribution. --increase in international trade (in­--Nixon's poor record in "jawboning" to creased over $20 billion in three years) prevent inflation 


by Jim Gresser Staff Reporter 

University Vice-President for Advanced Studies, Dr. Robert Gordon. de-emphasized the im­portance of Teacher's Assistant salaries at a meeting with about 15 graduate students yesterday in the library lounge. The director of the iraduate school said that the educational opportunity of being a 
T.A. is far more important than the salary. 
Graduate Student Uni'on President Barry Wessels pointed out to Gordon the highly un­balanced T .A. pay scale throughout the university. Wessel expressed the GSU opinion that the salaries should be more uniform with a minimum $2,400. This, he feels, would protect the graduate student from depart­ments who could lower salaries 

TA salaries de-emphasized 
because of a glutted market of possible T.A.'s. 
"There is something wrong," Wessel said, "when an artist gets under two grand and a mathematician gets over three grand." 
Gordon poined out that "only 25 percent of our graduate students are paying their own way." He noted also that "85 percent of the law school students, on the other hand, have to take out loans." Gordon did say that "probably we are low in quality of support in comparison to other school." 
Gordon also discussed the lack of acuity and graduate student personal interaction. He said that the paths of the faculty and students must cross somewhere and expressed a desire for them to "stay at that intersection for a short piece of time.'' 
Wessel noted that most graduate students were "too depart­mentalized" and that there was no intellectual exchange across departmental lines. 
Gordon agreed and emphasized the need for special diversification of "scientists and engineers who "generally don't come out of their laboratories." He added that this diversification would best come from the students them­selves who are not "as tied to the department as the faculty." 
Gordon charged both faculty and students with "no real com­mitment to scholarship" because of lack of interest in other fields. He suggested an "interdisciplinary seminar" on a topic of combined interest among departments such as the "Sociology of Walt Whit­man." 
}ordon said that the initial response to such activity might be sparse but that it will grow because, "to use the Gilbert's system. one man tells another " 
Thursday, October 19, 1972
the observer 
warld briefs 
(c) 1972 New V91'k Ttmes 

Washington--After a last-minute defiance of President Nixon, the 92nd Congress moved toward adjournment .. In was was expected to be one of its last acts, the Democratic-controlled Congress rejected the President's request for authority to cut the budget to $250 billion this fiscal year. In addition, both the House and Senate overrode the Presidential veto of a $24 billion Water Pollution Bill, which Nixon had called "needless overspending." 
Saigon--Henry A. Kissinger and the Army Chief of Staff, General Creighton W. Abrams, arrived in Saigon for consultations with President Thieu amid unofficial speculation that connected their visits with reports of progress in the peace negotiations. 
Washington--Sen. George McGovern added a new dimension to his repeated challenges to debate President Nixon on television: he of­fered to pay for any such encounters between the two nominees by offering several of the half-hour programs he plans to buy before the elction. The offer was made in a telegram sent to the President, requesting the answer within 48 hours. 
an campu• tllllay 
1: 15--lecture, dr. dennis dugan and dr. william Ieahy, rm. 109 wenninger-kirsch. 
2:00--talk, gary wills on witches in shakespeare'stime,_library auditorium. 
3: 25--lecture, polymer reactors, non-isothermal addition, rm. 269 chem-engineering hall. 3;30--film, civilization series, engineering auditorium. 7:00-9:00-11:00--movie, all quiet on the western front, engineering auditorium, $1.00. 7:30--meeting, spanish majors, rm. 168 regina hall. 
8:00--talk, gary wills on the loss of the american tradition, library auditorium. 
8: 15--concert, sicilian puppets in don quixote,washington hall. 
9: 00--meeting, charism<.ltic jayer, holy cross hall. 
(c( 1972 New YOrk T1mes 

Washington. Oct. II!-The Senate and House of Representatives, as expected, overrode today President Nixon's veto of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972. which: authorized appropriations of 24.6 billion over three years to clean up the nation's lakes and rivers. 
The Senate vote to override, 52 to 12, came at l :30 this morning, only two hours after the President had sent up a veto message saying that the price tag on the bill was "un­consionable" and "budget­wrecking." 
The President had delayed his message until 40 minutes before the Bill would have become law without his signature. He had apparently delayed the message to see whether the Congress would accede to his request for a spen­ding limit this fiscal year of 250 billion. 
The House vote to override, 247 to 23 came at 1:20 p.m. today. 
In overriding by such decisive margins, members of both parties ignored the president's warning that those who did sowere"charge 
Congre~!., .~.!~~~~..des Nixon.,.j!!.~~!~ru.~i,~! v.!:!..!2. ,.,.
by ~.W. Kenworth~ 

voting for mflation and higher taxes
· 

Anticipating the action of Congress, Nixon said that "even if the Congress defaults its obligation to the taxpayers, I shall not default mine . "Nothing that the bill gives him discretion in spending the funds authorized, he said, "I mean to use those provisions to put the brakes on budget-wrecking ex­penditures as much as possible." 
This was taken here as warning that he would not spend all the sums authorized and particularly not those to pay the federal share of waste treatment plants. 
Following the refusal of Congress to sustain the veto, Sen. George McGovern, the Democratic Presidential can-Of thrs amount, 18 brlhon would 
be for the Federal share -75 percent --of the cost of waste treat~~nt ~?rks, The states and munrcrpahtres would pay the remaindt:. 
In addition, 2.75 billion would be eamarked to reimburse states and cities for the federal share on projects already completed or under construction that the federal government has not paid and that the states and cities have paid themselves in expectation of federal reimbursement. 
Of this amount, 2 billion would be for reimbursement for projects between 1967 and 1972 --an amount that the enviromental protection agency agrees the government owes and should pay. The 
didate, said that the Congress "had . remaining 750 million _is for 
acted with great wisdom and courage." · · 
"The Presidential veto," McGovern said, "reveals the Nixon Administration's record on behalf of the environment for what it is -hypocritical platitudes coupled with spineless inaction." 
Nixon based his veto solely on what he called the "staggering" 
24.6 billion in the bill. 



50 football tickets needed to reach exchange quota 
The Missouri Ticket Exchange program is about 50 football tickets short, with two days left before the Notre Dame -Missouri football game this Saturday. 
Coordinator B. J. Bingle said last night that the second floor ticket window will be kept open today from 9 am to 4 pm so that students who have not yet had the chance to contribute will get the chance. 
Bingle said, "We will leave the ticket windows open till game time if we have to. I don't want to tell any child he can't go to the game because the students here didn't come through." 
Also needed are drivers to get the children from home to the game. Anyone who can help should come to a meeting at 7 pm in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Students driving the children in the program to the game will park in the Stepan Center lot during the game. 
Anyone who wants to help in any way but cannot be at the meeting should call B.J. Bingle oat 3448 or Tom Long at 3636. 

The Observer is published. daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 465.56., 

P. A. insists the government does that hrs proposed 6 brlhon was · " · ·r· t "enough to continue and
not owe smce no srgm rcan federal assistance program accelerate the momentum to~ard existed during this period and tha~ high standard o~ cleanh_ne~s there was thus a lack of federal whrch all of us want m Amerrca s commitments." waters." 
Tired of Getting Your Hair Wiped-Out? 

..... 

Is it Sick? t Is It Damaged? Is It Tangled? Does It Need shaping up? 
"Let Sue style your hair." 

We solve long hair problems I 
~ All Services By Appointment 


~~~~!':!~i.~~~~ 
1637 Lincoln Way W. Phone 23~-6622 
IKE & TINA TURNER 
IN CONCERT 

October 20, 1972 8:00 pm 

Tri-State College Angola, Indiana All tickets $5.00 
OBSERVER 



NEWS MEETING 
REORGANIZATION OF NEWS STAFF 
6:30pm TODAY Room 2D LaFortune EVERYBODY BE THERE! New People Welcomed. 
Thursday, October 19, 1972 
the observer 
3 

Fr. Ryan says U.S. Mideast policy distorted 
Is U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East based on myth? 
In a speech, "American Responsibility in the Middle East," last night, Rev. Joseph L. Ryan declared, "Americans must face the reality of the situation in the Middle East. We must make our own Middle East policy in Washington rather than letting the Israelis make it for us in Tel Aviv." 
Ryan, who is currently with the Institute of Religious and Cultureal Change in Lebanon, cited an Israeli general's recent statements on the "dangerous position" of Israel prior to the 1967 Middle East war as the main myth in the mind ny most Americans. 
"The bluff born and bred after the 1967 war according to General Matituahu Peled was that Israel was facing annihilation at the hands of the Arab countries," 

Phone directory still unfinished 
l't'ality ... 
Ryan said. He pointed out that this fear was unfounded but was used to cover up Israel's real intenti6n in the war. 
"The real intention of the war was to give credibility to Israel's 
by Tom Drape 

A breakdown in contract com­munications and a lack of co­operation from University clubs and organizations are the reasons that the University Telephone Directory remains unfinished according to Assistant services Director. Bob Alden. 
The Student Union Services Commission handles preparation of the directory. 
The directory was contracted to a new publisher this year with schedules, clubs, and organizations added totheformat of lhe telephone listings of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. 
According to Alden, a misun­derstanding between two university administrators, Walt Schwartz, director of the Services Commission, and Alden himself 
concerning the contract left the 
preparation of the directoryy 
untouched well into 3 weeks of this 
year 
"Even if we were ready to enter the final stage of publication, it wouid be impossible to anticipate its arrival," said Alden. 
The clubs and organizations which failed to correspond to telephone information requests mailed over the summer left that research to be done this year. This has also slowed publication, according to Alden. 
The new contract called for the first draft submitted to one printer and then on to a second publisher. 
Most of the material is now at the second publisher. 
Alden was quick to offer an apology, not in his name, but for the Directory itself to the student body and especially the ROTC students who man the directory assistance number. "Knowing the tremendous inconvenience Walt and I are sorry and are trying to get this thing out as soon as we can," said Alden, who has spent considerable time this semester on the directory. 
Not wishing to identify the ad­ministrators in volved, Alden added that he and Schwartz felt that the Directory itself should be an University responsibility. 
Law school expansion starts 
Ground clearing operations in advance of construction of a $1.6 million addition to Notre Dame's Law School has begun on the site of the 103-year-old ~ampus depart­ment. Clc:,ses and faculty offices have been temporarily located in Wenninger-Kirsch Hall, the former biology building, until construction is completed in the fall of 1973. 
The Kresge Foundation of Birmingham. Mich., has given $250,000 to the project, with in­dications that a supplemental gift of $500,000 will be considered next year. The construction and 
Decorated army chaplain to speak on WNDU-TV 
Father Maurice E. Powers, former Army Chaplain and Colonel, who served in 11 battle campaigns on three continents during WW II and the Korean Conflict, and was decorated five times for valor, will be the speaker on the WNDU-TV morning program at 6:55 a.m. and over WNDU -Radio at 9:30 
a.m. from October 23rd to the 28th. 
Father Powers is a graduate from the University of Notre Dame, and he won the Breen Medal for oratory while a student there before going on to graduate and theological studies. Just recently his patriotic theme, "The Stranger Who Is My Brother" was nominated for one of the high awards by the Freedoms Foundation, Valley Forge, Pennsylvania. 

Mr. Baron award winning stylist in this area 
also Our Advanced Lady Stylists 
Call for appointments--259-7679 student rates1321 E. McKinley Hwy.--Mish. 
Mon., Tues. &21!2 mi. east of T&C Shopping Center Wed. 

power of disuasion, and to halt the Soviet Union's attempt to upset the status quo in the Middle East according to Pelec," Ryan said. 
Ryan asserted that this fear of Arab "genocide" and the spread of Soviet influence was used by the Israelis to win American suport of Israel during the Six-Day War. 
Quoting statemtnts made by three Israeli generals after the war, Ryan deduced, "The Isreali government exploited the fear of the people and by confusing statements of motivation, tried to rationzlize the annexation of Arab lands." Stressing the importance of learning to recognize myths, said that the U.S. could become "tragically involved in the Middle East, as we are in Vietnam" if we are unable to . see "through the clouds of propaganda surrounding these myths." 
Ryan pointed to a recent statement by Senator J. W. Fulbright who said, "When it 
renovation will double the building's usable space, and funds are being sought to increase an­nual book purchases from 50,000 to 150,000 volumes. 
comes to anti-communism the U.S. is as susceptible as a drug addict and the world is full of ideological pushers." He claimed that the fear of communism emphasized by Israel influenced the formulation of U.S. foreign policy in the Middle East. 
The notion of a public hearing giving ot-h sides equal time and equla representation was suggested by Ryan. "I am astonished at how many people go to the Middle East, bisit only Israel and come back experts on the situation. What is worse, they are unaware they have seen only one side," he observed. 

FUN FEST 
Friday, October 20, 8pm American Legion Post 357 1606 Western Ave. S. B. FREE REFRESHMENTS & ENTERTAINMENT Admission: $2.00 
--Sponsored by St. Joseph County Young-Democrats 

ALUMNI CLUB PRESENTS 
ANDEKER BEER SPECIAL 
Thurs. Oct. 19th (30~ off normal price) 
Many door prizes with a grand prize of: 
2 Tix to Bears-Packers Game in 
November at Chicago Club open from 8-12 
DUKE UNIVERSITY 


SCHOOL OF LAW 
A member of the faculty of Duke University School of Law will be on campus on Tuesday, October 24 to interview prospective applicants. Please contact the Placement office for an ap­pointment. 
Information may also be obtained from Associate Dean Frank T. Read, Duke Univer­sity, School of Law, Durham, North Carolina 27706. 

1 
l 1 
APPLE AND
LIEBRAUMLICH STRAWBERRY 
$3 1fi~ $103 1 
1 
LANCER' 



ROSE ~ ,$4\~h 
TOWN & COUNTRY LIQUOR 
Town and Countrv Shoppinq Center See us for all your party needs and supplies 





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER •
1n ... 

News: 283-1715 Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, Editorial: 283-8661 on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the Business: 283-7-t11 individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
butch ward
Thursday, October 19, 1972 



Congress overrides 
Yesterday Congress spoke for mom, apple pie, the American way, and anti­pollution measures. They overrode the veto of President Richard Nixon on the Federal Water Pollution Act of 1972 --a bill and an issue which has increasingly been identified with all that is good, proper, and just in America. 
Quite a price tag Now it is up to Congress to see that the monies that they voted for are actually used in the cleaning up of America's lakes and streams. . The bill calls for 
24.6 billion in contrast to the 6 billion that Nixon asked for. The price tag is quite large, yet necessary. 
It is this kind of monetary com­mittment to the environment that we desperately need. In this area alone, the St. Joe River looks murkier and murkier and the shores of Lake Michigan aren't as clean as they once were. Pollution of the water cannot be stopped overnight, nor can it be halted without this monetary committment by the Federal Govern­ment. Now it is up to the Congress to police these appropriations. 
Nixon says no 
The Pressident has already vowed that he will limit the funds used for water treatment plants --18 billion. In fact, he claimed that he will not spend all the funds available. Congress must use all their powers available to see that Nixon does not do this. It is an issue and a necessity that the money be spent on the environment. 
William Ruckelhaus, Administrator of 
the Environmental Protection Agency 
and seemingly the nation's expert on the 
matter, called for Nixon to sign the bill. 
He claimed that many in this country 
would begin to doubt the credability of 
the Nixon Administration'a com­mittment to cleaning up the en­vironment. Ruckelhaus was right--it does present a problem in credability... particuualrly because of the manner in which the veto occured. 
40 minute to go 
Nixon vetoed the bill40 minutes before it was to become law. Political analysts have claimed that he delayed his decision 
daan••bu·ry 

waiting to see if Congress would approve his proposed 250 billion spending ceiling. They rejected the ceiling and minutes later, Nixon rejected the anti-pollution bill. 
The only conclusion that is obvious is that the President is playing political games with an issue that cannot allow 
itself to be dragged into politics.  the dregs  of  
Nixon's  veto  message  attempted  to  

emphasize that environmental protection was one of his highest concerns, but the message rang hollow following the veto. 
The override 

The veto was overridden by huge margins in both the House and Senate -­the two votes coming within ten minutes of each other. Bill sponsors in their jubilance recognized that the price was high and the American people must be prepared to pay it. 
The price is high and it appears that the American people are going to have to pay it. But that price will reap rewards, rewards that far outweigh the problems that Nixon has raised. The environment. must be cleaned up. This bill won't completely accomplish this goal, but it will begin to do it and we must start somewhere. The override of the Presidents's veto was necessary and Congress responded. Now the burden lies upon Congress to find the bill in the amount allocated: They must go beyond a pledge of mere allegiance for mom, apple pie, the American way, and anti­pollution measures. 
Jerry Lutkus 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Editor: 
I am writing this letter in order to express my thanks to Bruce and Han Callner <Co-Chairmen of the Young Voters for the President). I thank them for finally admitting what they did in connection with

Letters ... 
the presidential poll they released last week. I made the accusation that they did not record the McGovern supporters' sympathies when they were in the process of taking their poll, and that they merely dreamt up the 36 per cent figure they attributed to the McGovern support. Not once in the rletter did they refute this. 
tlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllmiiiiiUIIIIUIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllmMIWHitlltttlllll"llllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
'=l•rry trudeau the observer 
ISSUE· STAFF: Night Editor: george lund Ass't Night Editor: Art ESposito Design: Lynn DiGuilio, Sue Prendergast, Nic Catrambone Day Editor: Tom Drape Pictureman: Jim Hunt Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr Night Controller: Phil Orscheln Typists: Mark Neiderkorn, Barb Norcross, John Flannigan, Mary Romer 
There was something very ordinary in awakening on a Wednesday morning in mid-october and finding snow falling from grey Indiana skies. The feeling of resignation permeated my still groggy 
framehas become all too familiar in these last few weeks. Even the weather is against me. Doesn't anvone understand? And yet I shouldn't totally discredit the unpleasant climate here in South Bend, for what other facet of student life has provided such ample means for us to release our frudtrations . After all, there are no issues this year with which students need concern themselves, for the Trustees have been kind enough to refrain from issueing any edicts to the student body this fall. And really we are quite lost without the traditional battles of "the Bottle" and the "Open Dorm." We really depended upon the Trustees to deprive us in some area, thus alerting us to that area as definitely integral to student life. And they let us down. 
The Student Body, in general, is incapable of acting positively Although we find it elementary to react verbally when our toes are stepped upon, we are indifferent and mute when asked to work towards a positive end. Negative action, or reaction, is a process that requires little more than a fair grasp of the country's native tongue. But action that is unmotivated by resentment of administration reprisal requires insight, imagination, patience, and guts, so far in 1972, we have used all four attributes in as excellant evaluation of yesterday's snow. 
It is indeed a tragedy tlrat factions of the student body resent the efforts of concerned members of student government and hall governments to inform them of areas in which Notre Dame, as a community, could move in a effort to improve our condition The accusation that these people invent issues for their personal edification is one that reflects a lack of understanding as to what responsible solutions before it becomes necessary to simply react to edicts. The responsible leader cannot, in good conscience, allow his constituents to be victims; he gives them the opportunity to alter their own destiny. The responsible leader acts positively. Surely the student body at Notre Dame cannot testify to their ignorance by asserting that out total committment to coeducation is not a real issue. Surely they will not be so naive as to think that overcrowding will alleviate itself, that people will be allowed a free choice as to whether or not they will move off-campus next spring. The fact is that unless an unprecedented number of students volunteer to move, there will be some form of coercion enacted. Surely we are not that blind. 
But there is another aspect of the responsible leader at Notre Dame that is seldom realized. He becomes realistic to the point of extreme frustration. Aware of the fact that most of the claims to community here are but myths, he is faced with the task of attempting solutions virtually unsupported by his fellow students. The talent that is squandered yearly by disinterested students would be sufficient to account for significant change in this campus. Coeducation would progress by leaps and bounds, and alternative residence halls could be reality. The responsible leader, in absence of his constituency, may well still perform the miracle of change. 
The decision is now ours. The student body at Notre Dame is.not great, but it has potential to be great. Responsible leaders can only attempt change; active students can enact change. 
My congratulations to those who completed this article and felt a tinge of resentment, for they realize that their anger is caused by something in the column that touched on a sore spot. They are most likely to attempt positive action. 
Unfortuantely, the majority of those for whom the column was ~itten do not bother to read it; the have com pletedthe Classified Ads pdthe Sports, and are now reading the weather. 
In fact they came right out and said that "if the respondent in­dicated a preference for Senator McGovern, the interview would be concluded". Indeed it was con­cluded without even a mark on the poll. I thank you for admitting this, but you better watch out. If you continue to improve your credibility, you may be dumped from the Nixon team. We McGovern people will forgive and forget. So why don't you come over to our side. 
Looking forward to your switch, 
Dennis McCabe 107 Dillon Hall 
-

I. 
Thursday, October 19, 1972 the observer 5
-----....::.. 


Candidates' econom1c· 1ssues explored 
(continued from page 1) 
Lonergan claimed that under a second Nixon administration there would be "nonew taxes, property tax relief for the aged, ''continuing effor-t to pass welfare reform" and "continuing real growth in wages and GNP and increasing non-defense employment." 
Nostalgia for the '50's 
Jameson. whose speech im­mediately followed Houck's, charged the Ni· on ·administration with "nostagia for the 1950's." During this decade the US economy suffered three recessions. 
Eisenhower and Nixon "got their first one <recession) going by July 1953, and it only took Nixon 'til November 1969 to get 
his first recession, " Jameson 
claimed. 
The economics professor said 
that the upswing in n the _economy during the last year of the Nixon administration was the result of "Jameson's first law." 
ThP roller coaster effec·t 

"Jameson's first law of the 
economy emphatically states 
that the US economy is like a 
roller .coaster--if from a peak you 
take It down far enough, it is 
bound to come back up fo a while. 
So Nixon knows how to ride a 
roller coaster, but that hardly 
consoles me," Jameson said 
adding that "the only problem is 
that Nixon took about an extra 
year to get the economy to trun 
back up." 
]oint spaceflight 
by Theodore Shabad ((') l!li2 New York Times 
Astronauts of the United States and the Soviet Union were disclosed today to have taken part for the first time in preparatory talks for a Joint Manned Space Mission scheduled for 1975. 
Space officials of the two countries also indicated at the end of a 10-day planning meeting that the men for the mission would probably be selected next spring to allow for two years' training for the complex enterprise. 
Spe.1king at a news conference at the headquarters of the Soviet Academy of Sc. iences, Boris N. Petrov. a Soviet Space Official, said: 
"the discussions have reached a stage where the participation of astronauts is both useful and necessary." 
Brig. Gen. Thomas R. Stafford, an astronaut who came here Oct. 9 as part of a 27-member United States Planning Group, said he had 




u.s. and 
by Goerge Sherman 

(c) 1!172 Washington Star-News 
Washington. Oct. II! -The United 
states and Soviet Union signed 
today two major agreements 
setting out a broad new trade 
relationship between the two 
countries. 
The White House announced that 
agreement has been reached on a 
settlement of Russia's 2.6 billion 
dollar Lend-Lease Ddebt owed 
from World War II. Also, an 
accompanying new trade pact, 
including tariff treatment for 
Russia imports into the United 
States, is to be signed. 
discussed training techniques and the proposed flight plan for the joint mission with two Soviet astronauts. 
The two, Maj. Gen. Andrian G. Nikolayev and Aleksei S. Yeliseyev, who is a civilian engineer, were also present at the press briefing, together with Konstantin D. Bushuyev, the, the Soviet manager for the j· .,int mission. 
However, both the Soviet space team and Glynn S. Lunney, manager for the American side, declined to discuss specific decisions reached at the latest meeting, their first since their discussions in Houston in July, 
Lunney said the decisions in­volving technical details of spacecraft operation and the minute-by-minute schedules for the mission, had to be approved by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration before being made public. 
The joint mission was provided for in an agreement signed by 
•

Soviet Union s1gn trade agree~nents 
The announcement climaxed negotiations that had begun in earnest with Presdient Nixon's summit meetings in Moscow last May. It also indicated the end of a 24 year impasse over the Soviet Lend-Lease debt. Observers considered the pact to be a major breakthrough toward normal trade with the Soviet Communist State. 
White House Press Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler gave no details about the amount of the debt settlement or the terms of the new trade agreement. 
He said only that Secretary of State William P. Rogers is to sign the Lend-Lease Debt agreement 
~.tTAMP£0/NG =A&NO.!.! THE~.tCNEENl 

Jameson argued that Nixon has not made public his proposed programs for the next four years. He claimed that only the President's advisor!', make anypuohc statements about upcoming programs. 
He contrasted this with what he called "McGovern's carefully specified steps." In supporting the Democratic andidte's tax propsols, Jameson said "McGovern will reform the tax system and close the loopholes to generate 22 billion in additional revenue He will also cut expenditures, not surrep­titiously but in the fat of the defense budget. So at least we know when• McGovern stands, and his stand is economically sound." 
International issues 

Rakowski, whose specialty is 
international economics, defended 
Nixon's moves in the international 
sector. Nothing that many 
planned 
President Nixon during his visit to 
Moscow in May. The project, 
involving the docking of a Soviet 
Soyuz Spacecraft and an American 
Apollo in earth orbit, is designed to 
test equipment that would permit 
cooperative scientific missions and 
international rescues of spacecraft 
crews in emergencies. 
At the meeting in Houston, 
Soviet and United States planning 
groups had agreed on a 
preliminary flight plan, in which a 
Soyuz spacecraft carrying two 
men would blast off from within 
the Soviet Union, to be followed 
into orbit from Cape Kennedy by 
three Americans aboard an Apollo. 
The two craft would dock and the 
crews would eschange visits. 
In contrast to a large, in­
formative news conference after 
their meeting in Houston, the two 
working groups were skimpy with 
information at today's briefing, 
which was limited to three 
American newsmen, working as a 
pool, and to at least six Russian 
reporters. 
economists have favored allowing currency to respond to market pressures, Rakowski said that the chief impediment of. devaluation of the dollar has been "sensitivity to political repercussions." 
"Recall the repugnance with which devaluation was treated a few years back. But Nixon manged to pull off a a (!evaluation with hardly a murmur among the population. Practically the only voice I heard which seemed to emanate from those dark voids of economic ignorance was that of Sargeant Shriver at the Democratic National Convention," Rakowski said. 
In addition , he praised Nixon's record in international trade pointing to an expansion of American trade from 66.5 billion in 1968 to 90.4 billion in 1971. "The momentum of world policy seems to be turned toward freer trade, Rakowski said. adding that "the alternative which Nixon for­tunately rejected was export taxes, which would have been a step in the wrong direction." 
Policies vs. rhetoric 

Rakowski began his speech claiming that he intended to defend Nixon's economic "policies" not his "economic rhetoric or his economic priorities." 
"Nixon has made promises which he has not kept and could not have been expected to keep. But I doubt that Nixon has sinned worse in this respect than the average presidential candiate," he noted. 
The two McGovern speeches were presented first, followed by the Nixon speeches then each speaker gave a five minute rebuttal. After the debate members asked questions for over an hour. 
Dr. Dennis Dugan, chairman of the economics department, moderated the session. 
First band wedding 
Marching band and wedding at neighboring Saint Mary'_, band announcements combined , ~ollege. With Notre Dame openiu;,; this year at Notre Dame when one Its doors to 365 undergraduate of the first eight women added to women students this year, she the famed "Band of the Fighting became eligible to join the for­Irish" became the bride of last merly all male marching band and ·•ear's band president, Gregory A. topped this honor with her Cannata. marriage to Cannata, a 1972 
graduate who is now serving in theThe former Lucy A. Eberhardt ·U.S. Army.
of Allentown, Pa., gained mem­1•ership on the Notre Dame concert Now a junior at Notre Dqmehand roster last year as a student Lucy is pursuing a major in musie
'--------------------------­

Erie appointed at SMC 
Elroy Ed.nund Erie has been a regional Crime Commission at appointed Director of Foundation St. John's University, Collegeville and Government Relatons for Minnesota. ' Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Erie is a native of St. Cloud, Indiana. He will report to Sister M. Minnesota, where he graduatedBasil Anthony, C.S.C., Vice from St. Cloud State College as a President for Development. Erie's Geography major. He is a member specialty in this newly created of ~aroma Theta Upsilon, the position will be Program Planning. natiOnal honor society for geographers. he also served inSt. ~revious to this appointment, Cloud as REsearch Assistant to 
Erie was the Executive Director of that city's mayor. 
with Soviet Foreign Trade Minister Nikolai S. Patolichev, and tat commerce Secretary Peter. G. Peterson is to sign the Trade Pact, also with Patolichev. 
Patolichev, who arrived in Washington last Wednesday, was scheduled to be at the White House later today, accompanied by Soviet Ambassador Anatoly F. Dobrynan. A White House aide, Peter M. Flanigan, also is to participate in receiving them. 
According to informect sources, the Lend-Lease debt was computed on the basis of the Russians still ' owing 500 million dollars to tile 
United States besides interest payments computed over a 30 yearperiod. 
The Soviet government it was understood, rejected spelling out how much interest was to be paid. 
An over-all figure was expected to be ussd, including the 500 million dollars plus the interest payments, and apportioned into annual payments through the year 2001. 
Under the Lend-Lease Agreement, as previously used in the settlement of the British Lend-Lease Debt, it was un­derstood that the Russians were to be allowed a certain number of postponements of annual payments. The exact number was not given, but it was believed to be three. 
Both the Lend-Lease Agreement and the Trade Pact, Ziegler said, would require congressional ap­provaL 
Henry A. Kissinger, President Nixon's National Security Adviser, after his trip to Moscow in Sep­tember, indicated that the ad­ministration would ask Congress for enabling legislation early in its next session. 
r-----------------------------------------------­
TONIGHT! FREE CONCERT 
STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION starts the weekend with FRANK MARTIN and his own brand of gentle FOLK MUSIC 10-11 :30 in the Rathskeller 
• 
Engineering Aud. Oct. 20-2.1 8+.10 pm Admission $.1.00 
l l . '-1 
j 
rm..J
--. ·-----­

... • 
Thursday, October 19, 1972
6 

the observer 
.... 







The right--in candidate. 

BOONE'S FARM, MODESTO, CALIFORNIA 
~-~-~ ---­
Thursday, October 19, 1972 the observer 
ND architect to 
Kenneth W. McCandless, a slide supplement on the topic of graduate student in Environic "Geotecture", the use of the ~arth Design within the department of and the environmental factors 
Architecture has been invited to contingent upon terranean space. present a paper at "Design in the 
In his presentation Ken willAmericas," Congress I, the first suggest that a spearate discipline, hemisphere congress on design, in "Geotecture", identified
Mexico City, October 30 through be con­
cerning inner-terranean and sub­November 1, 1972. 
terranean construction andThe Congress is being co­selective accomodation. He willsponsored by the Industrial 
show that the world has adesigners Society of America, the precedence for geotectural con­Asociasion Mexicana de struction ; that the need for such aDisenadores and the Institu discipline is now becoming critical Nacional para al Desarrollo de Ia with respect to increasingCommunidad Rural y Ia Vivienda demands upon the surface of thePopular. The theme of the earth; that we now have theCongress is ; "The Effect of technical m-eans for inner­Change: The Use and Co11servation 
terranean and sub-terranean
of the Hemisphere's resources. 
construction; that such con­and the Development of Com­struction is socially,munity through design." 
psychologically, and economically 
McCandless will give an oral feasible; and finally, that the presentation in Spanish with a potential of Geotecture has 
March of Dimes needs volunteers for Saturday 

The Notre Dame March of Dimes needs student volunteers for the first pre-football game collection, this Saturday, October 
21. In each of the past two years, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students have collected before the gaml's, and the results of their f'fforts have been termed ·•moderately successful" by the organizers of the drive. 
One hundred students are needed 
Art Curator 
•

IS appointed 
hy Mike Baum 

Student Government yesterday announced the appointment of Timothy Treanor to the post of Art Curator for Student Government. 
Treanor confirmed that his 
appointment was received Wed­
nesday morning at 10:30, "after 
the last contribution." Treanor 
will have authority over the art 
collection of Student Government. 
"I am to glorify the King <SBP 
Hobert Kersten l in all the art that 
comes in. I have absolute power 
over what is art and what is the 
outpouring of rabble " Treanor 
said. ' 
Presently, the Student Govern­ml'nt Art collection consists of two scrolls of composite crayon drawings, on newsprint paper, presented to Kersten by the children of the Happy Day Care Center. The children's drawuigs, emphasizing the themes ot courtly love and animals, were inspired by stories the children had heard of Kersten and his monarchical administration. 
Treanor~ announced that he "is, 
will and always has been" 
soliciting art contributions from 
students. The two crayon scrolls 
may be viewed by interested 
students in the offices of Student 
Government in LaFortune Student 
Cl'nter. 
Students for McGovern 
"ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT" 
7-9-ll pm Thurs., Oct. 19 Engineering Aud. Admission $1.00 
for the program. Those interested should pick up collection cans at lOam in LaFortune Student Center, and return the cans with the collections by game time. 
Money from the collection will go to the national March of Dimes campaign which supports such activities as patient services, research, health education, and medical service programs. 
Brash, funny, subtle poetry by black, white and Puerto Rican young people 13 to 20 years of age. Selected from "40 Acres And A Mule," Harlem's youth newspaper. 
Mail to: HORIZON SIX 
P.O. Box 21, Manhattanville Station New York, N.Y. 10027 
Regular Price $3.75 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES $2.00 
(Please include school mailing address) 
Desperately need 2-3 gen. ad. tix to Missouri -Pam 8118. 
FOR SALE 

New Westinghouse Compact Refrigerators. Spacious 4.4 cu. ft. capacity, factory warranty, immediate delivery. Call Now! 234-0578 or 232-2618. 
1963 MGB. Tape player, new tires. Call Stephen M. Buente 232­2849. 
For Sale 1971 Suzki 500 with 2 helmets . $600 or best offer. Call Tom 232-0659. 
Cl LA Christmas cards now on sale. Support our summer projects. For more info call Mike at 1509. 
Seniors! What are you doing with your future? Marist Lay Volunteers opens opportunities for you in teaching and other areas. Want 'to know more? Stapleton Lounge in LeMans St. Mary's at 7:30 Sunday night. 
.. 
Words 1da 2da Jd~ 4da 5da 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.9~ 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.• 6.50 7.80 8.95 
0 > ­

l 
the observer Thursday, October 19, 1972
8 




Casper--doing well everywhere 
If there's such a thing as a healthy schizaphrenic, Dave Casper probably comes closest to fitting the definition. 
Casper not only is a very good offensive tackle for Notre Dame, but he's a good tight end or guard or center or maybe even a defensive lineman or linebacker. 
"I've been told I could play any of the offensive line positions," says Casper, who is listed as the No. 2 tight end behind Mike Creaney. "Coach (Joe) Yonto kids me that I could play the defensive line, and I think I could play linebacker, too." 
As cocky as that may sound, it's all probably quite true -Casper is the most versatile athlete on the squad. Right now, however, he's an offensive tackle--and he's quite happy about it. 
''I don't mind playing where I am." says Casper, who admits tight end might be more glamorous. "It's not as bad as people think. There is a lot of satisfaction at the position, and you have some tough things to do." 
"When you catch a pass, the fans may know about it, but when you make a good block, ·your team­mates know about it. That's much more important." 
"The offensive line is funny. When the quarterback throws a bad pass, he can forget and just throw another one. But when the defensive lineman opposite you beats you, he has an important psychological advantage. It's very much like a split end with man-to­man coverage. You have to go right back to the line against the same guy play after play." 
Against Northwestern, the psychological advantage was mostly Casper and his teammates' as the Irish dominated the line of scrimmage. 
"As a whole, the line is very good," Casper says with un­derstated modesty. "We've learned to play together, but when everyone does his own assignment well, it makes the whole line look good." 
Offensive backs like to give the line credit when they perform well, but Casper hands some of the credit back. 
"We have two outstanding fullbacks," Casper says of Andy Huff and John Cieszkowski, "but the added part this year is a fast back <Eric Penick) and a quick back marryll Dewan). When you give them a hole, they hit it quick -­they don't hesitate to put their head into it. It gives a lineman a real advantage bacause his man doesn't have time to get off the block." 
As serious as Casper is about his performance and efficiency, he rarely fits the serious-player image. 
"To be a good football player," he says, "I don't think you have to maintain a serious image. There's always time to have a little fun. I can't take the game so seriously that there's no time to joke around. 
I don't take football so seriously that it becomes a job. When it does, I think I will have lost the battle." 
As well as Casper conforms to discipline of his position, he is a definite non-conformist off the field. 
Casper, whose hair has ranged 
Jim Dona I dson :===============================================================================;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;=;= 
The Irish Eye 

Missouri will be making its first appearance in Notre Dame Stadium Saturday afternoon. The Tigers and the Irish have met just once before, in Columbia, Mo., in 1970 and what was then the largest crowd in Missouri sports history watched Notre Dame, led by Joe Theismann and Ed Gulyas, come from behind to whip Missouri, 24-7. 
The way things are going this week, the Irish may have trouble fielding 22 healthy ballplayers against Mizzou. Freshman defensive tackle Steve Niehaus became the latest addition to Notre Dame's casualty list Wednesday afternoon when he was carried off the practice field with a knee injury sustained in a pass rush drill. The extent of the damage was not immediately determined. 
Willie Townsend has yet to fully recover from the knee injury he sustained in the Michigan State game. Adding to the receiving corps' problems, Bobby Washington may not be available Saturday, after in­juring a shoulder while diving for a fumble in Tuesday's workout, and Jim Roolf has an injured finger. 
Eric Penick is also temporarily sidelined with a banged-up shoulder and his status for the Missouri game has yet to be determined. 
Notre Dame is ranked among the top ten nationally in several categories in this week's NCAA statistics. 
The Irish are fourth in the country in rushing with a 320.8 yards per game average <Oklahoma leads with 435.3 ypg) and stand fifth in total offense, with 447.3 ypg (Oklahoma is on top in that category too, with 534 ypg.). 
Defensively, Notre Dame leads the nation in pass defense, allowing just 46 ypg, and their average of yielding just 182 ypg in total offense is good enough to put the Irish in the top ten in that category. 

If those statistics are an accurate measurement, Missouri may have trouble passing the ball against the Irish. The Tigers have averaged a mere 76 yards per game through the air, while rushing for 222 ypg in their five games this season. 
Question But No Answers Dep't: This week's wire service polls again ranked Michigan ahead of Notre Dame. The Wolverines have a 5-0 record, compared with Notre Dame's 4-0 mark, but the teams have played two common opponents ---Northwestern and Michigan North western and Michigan State. 
Michigan played both the Wildcats and Spartans in Ann Arbor, winning 
• 
by scores of 7-0 and 10-0 respectively. Notre Dame met Northwestern in Evanston,• and drubbed the Wildcats, 37-0. The Irish also beat MSU, 16-0, on its home territory, Spartan Stadium. But Michigan is ranked ahead of the Irish. It just doesn't seem to make sense. 
What's for Sale Section: The Notre Dame Fanatics, that hockey­crazy bunch of stud.ents1who terrorized visiting ice teams from section 6 at the tail-end of last season are already getting "psyched" for the home hockey opener November 5 against Bowling Green. The latest in distasteful hockey apparel are \"Fanatics" tee-shirts, on sale at the pro shop of the ACC for $1.75/ The tee-shirts are white with green trim around the neck and sleeves, Notre Dame lin green and gold letters across the chest and the Fighting Irish hockey leprechaun skating across your beer belly, with "Fanatics" in green letters underneath. 
from very long during the summer to the bald-look just before practice. I don't like to look the same as everyone else. Per­sonally, I like long hair, but I don't like it styled. When you cut it all off, it ,grows in fine. I'd just like to 
see how it grows out naturally." 
Casper also believes that campus life is more natural now that Notre Dame has begun a co­educational program. 
"When there were very few girls around," he says, "the tendency was not to look at them as girls. That perverted the atmosphere and did not simulate a real-life situation. The closer the ratio draws, the better the campus will be." 
"Once they complete their co­educational program, this is going to be the finest campus in the country. I've always said that the only thing the campus didn't have was girls." 
Casper, who is majoring in economics and has a 3.31 grade point average, admits that school and football leave little time for anything else. 
"Football takes up a few hours of may day," he says. "But I paly football here to get an education and take the economic pressure off my father. It's a good deal. And as long as I'm playing, I might as well play the best I can." 
"If I didn't have football, I'd probably find something else to replace it. But if I got into three things, all three would suffer. I'd rather do an excellent job at two." 
Taking his football performance and grade point together, Casper can take pride in doing an ex­cellent job at two. 
/nterha/1 slates tournament dates 
The lnterhall Athletics office has announced an October 27th sign-up deadline for its double-elimination handball tournament. 
Play in the singles tournament will be held in three divisions, open, intermediate, and novice. 
Also announced was a volleyball :elimination tourney which will be played by "co-ree" teams. 
The teams are to have. six players--three men and three women--and the entry deadline for this tourney is October 24th. 
For further information on either event contact office C-4 in the A.C.C. or call 6100. 
NCAA Stats 
TOT,U OfH:SSF. 
G Plays Vds. A' g. Oklahoma 4 :136 2.136 534.0 Arimna St. .....5 391 2.4.'1:i 4S7.0 Southern Cal. 6 4i4 2.!1J8 471.3 :>;ebr.ska .5 415 2.354 4i0.S !ilotl1' Dame. .4 327 1.7M9 447.3 Texas Tech .5 37S 2.191 4311.2 Air f'orc.> ......5 396 2.161 432.2 Oklahoma Sl. ... 5 39.1 2.156 .4JJ..l-
N. Carolina Sl. ...6 446 2.5!1! 4:ltl.3 Florida St. 6 462 2.5i7 4~'9.5 Rl'SHISG 
G Raslles Vds. A'~ Oklahoma .......4 285 1.741 435.3 Oklahoma St. ....5 3:iO l.S79 3i5.8 UCLA ..........6 369 2.140 356.7 !';oil'\' Dame.. .. 4 252 1.283 320.8 Oh10 State.. . .4 2511 1,250 312.5 Texas 'l:ech ......5 294 1.541 30!!.2 West Texas St. ... 5 312 1.539 307.8 Arizona St. ......5 269 1.518 303.6 Sew Mexico .....5 321 1.503 300.6' Michigan ........5 326 1.500 300~0 
PASSI~G 
All. Com. Pl:t. Vds. Vi!'ltinia Tech .19!1 107 .5381.505 301.0 Florida St. . 215 117 .544 1.112 ~'8.1 3 
Texas-EI Ps ..158 97 .614 1.351 2ill.2 
· Kansas 162 87 .!i.17 1.2Z2 241.4 Rice .137 72 .526 !I'! I 2:10 3 Stanford .175 Hll .571 1.145 2:!\1.0 N.Carohna St. 141 Ti .546 UtiO 227.2 Southern Cl 156 R7 !;58 U60 2~6.i 'iebra~ka. 116 70 603 1.1~~ 2'!5.6 Utah State 192 106 552 1.3~:1 2:!.1.5 
TOT.U OFFt:sst; G Yds. Yd. PG 
Strock, Va.Tech .... 5 19!1 107 1.505 21.4 Huff. na.St. . . .. 6 1::.1 115 l.ti.16 19.2 Keithley. UT EP .. 5 146 93 1.300 IU Fouts. Ort"gon . . 6 222 108 1.2i9 18.0 Gadd. Rice....... . 4 134 71 887 17.8 ll«yla, St.allf , 5 150 88 1,015 17.6 Adams. Ut.ah St. . 6 182 104 1.263 17.3 Jay!K's. Kansas .... 5 151 84 1.204 16.8 Plsar<:ik, N.Mx.St. 6 214 100 ·1085 16.7 Shobert, Temple .•... 5 146 78 1!&4 15.6 

navt' Caspt'r. ND's Vt'rsatile lineman 



Don't pass it up 


Irish Sports Weekly 
Available Tonight 




at the dining halls 
JUST lSc PEB 1SSUEI or by SubaenptJon: 
1 •meater -Sl.SO on ccmipus/ $3.00 by maO 1 year -$2.75 on cam.pua/ sa.oo by mall 
DelJvered to your door 
Send To: ·22Je Obsertw Notre Dame, .iid. Ram.e 

Aclclr.. 
Zip Coct. _......,._________ 


