On The Inside 
NO gyms take on the women ...pageS 
Abell checks out the new Yes ... page 8 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Friday, September 29, 1972

Vol. VII No. 16 

Nixon refuses compromise 
Welfare reform bleak 
by Marjorie Hunter 
(c) 1!172 New York Times 
Washington, Sept. 28 --A move to rescue welfare reform legislation appeared doomed today. as the Nixon Administration renounced support of a compromise offered by Senator Abraham A. Ribicoff , D-Conn. 
The administration announced its opposition even before Ribicoff had finished outlining to the Senate what he called a "Ribicoff­Administration" agreement embracing key parts of the welfare reform plan first proposed hy President Nixon three years ~ago. 
With the Senate caught up in a bitter three-way fight over welfare reform, the administratin's apparent refusal to compromise was generally viewed as signaling the death of welfare reform legislation this year. 
Some senators favor passage of the Nixon Plan already passed by the Hose. Under this plan, a family of four would be assured a guaranteed annual income of $2,400. Thi~ would include those already on welfare and the so-called "working poor" with substandard wages. 
Other senators, most of them staunch con­servat;ves. support a more restrictive "work­fare" plan, written by the Senate Finance Committee. which would substitute a "guaran­teed job" plan for the administration's "guaranteed income" proposal. 
Still others including most liberal democrats, favor the Ribicoff substitute, which retains the guaranteed income concept but sets the annual figure at $2,600 for a family of four. 
Hibicoff further proposed that the guaranteed income wage supplements for the "working 
poor" be tested under a pilot program that could then be fully implemented at some future time, submect only to a veto by either Hose of 
Congress. 
Hibicof had earlier proposed a $3,000 income 
guarantee but had scaled this down to $2,600 
after long negotiatins with key officials of the 
Department of Health Education and Welfare. 
last summer. 
Nixon was urged by H.E.W. officials to con­
sider the Ribicoff compromise, 8ut he refused, 
insisting that it was not the right time to enter 
negotiations. 
However, top administration officials had 
said. just two months ago, that there wold have 
to be "some give and take" on the issue in order 
to salvage the bill on the Senate floor this fall. 
Today, as Ribicoff neared the end of his speech 
on the Senate floor outlining his proposed 
compromise, a courier from H.E.W. arrived in 
the Senate Press Gallery with a news release. 
In the release, H.E.W. secretary Elliot L. 
Hichardson accused Ribicoff of having 
"mistakenly labeled" his welfare plans as a 
"Ribicoff -Administration" compromise. 
While conceding that he and his aides had 
discussed "alternative. proposals" with Ribicoff 
and other senators, Richardson added that "we 
have never agreed, either publicly or privately," 
to support anything except the president's plan. 
Richardson indicated that the president 
supported only his own plan and was not willing 
to compromise that stand. 
Ribicoff. a former Secretary of H.E.W. in th Kennedy Administration, promptly termed the Richardson statement as "more administration double talk. It is time for Richardson to show the courage of his convictions." 

Three POW's return to US 

after Viet release 
by Seymour Hersh 
(C) 1972 New York Times 
Copenhagen, Denmark, Sept. 28--The three American prisoners of war released by North Vietnam, in obvious good physical health, expressed gratitude today for their release and vowed to help bring home their captured comrades. 
"I'm going to be working for the most rapid repatriation of my fellow prisoners of war," Navy Lt. (J. G.) Markham 1. Gartley, 27 years old, told an hour-long news conference here. shortly after the three fliers arrived from Moscow. They left for New York later in the day. They are being escorted by American antiwar activists and members of their families. 
But Gartley and the two other released men, Navy Lt. Norris A. Charles, 27 years old, and Air Force Maj. Edward 
K. Elias, 34 years old, stopped short of any avowedly statements or endorsements. All three said they planned to resume their military careers. Gartley added that he had requested permission to spend "afew days" with his family before going back to the Navy. 
The men seemed tired, but otherwise alert and quick of mind. Charles and Gartley smiled often as they answered reporters questions calmly. 
"Looks like a Japanese camera factory," Gartley said with a laugh as a battery of photographers crowded around the men shortly before the news conference began. . 
Elias, who some antiwar spokesmen thought might decide to fly back to New York on an official United States aircraft, was by far the most noncommital of the three, and appeared distinctly ill at ease during the questioning. 
Asked about his political views, the Major said, "As you know I've been sort of shephered away from the actual issues. I feel there's a lot of reading I have to do." 
The most specific criticism of the war came from Charles, a black who was born in Florida. 
"While I was there, I realized I have a lot more learning to do," he said of his experiences in North Vietnam. "I've . studied the question--who is responsible for getting these men out?" he said. "It dawned upon me that it was you--the American people. I and some of the men that I left have a great deal of faith and hope in the American people," he told the news conference. ,"I call on you to help me in bringing these men home." 
Asked if he thought his release might be used as part of a propaganda war, the Lieutenant said, "Everybody uses everybody, but the man who speaks what he believes and what he feels doesn't care who uses what he says, as long as they do it honestly." 
An expected confrontation between the pilots and official United States representatives--expected by some antiwar officials here--did not materialize. 
The pilots, accompanied by two family members and representatives of the Commitee of Liaison--the New York­based antiwar group that organized the trip home--had a brief but friendly meeting with the American charge d' af­faires in Copenhagen, Thomas J. Dunnigan. 
According to a tape recording of the private encounter that was made available to the New York Times, Dunnigan opened the meeting by stating that an Air Force jet was standing by to fly the pilots directly home. He added, "You may participate in this ot you may not. That decision is yours." 
Gartley was the first to respond. "Personally, I would prefer to continue on to New York under the circumstances we're in," he said. "I'm in good health, and there are other considerations now." 
Elias added that "I've been told by these people <the Committee of Liaison) that future releases were contingent on the way it was handled. I don't want to do anything which might effect someone else." 

Girls in the band? 
see page 3 
-

the observer Friday, September 29, 1972 

warld briefs 
lcl 1!172 New York Times 
Washington --A former navy pilot told the Senate Armed Services Committee, which is investigating unauthorized bombings over North Vietnam. that pilots aboard his aircraft carrier off Vietnam in late 1971 and early 1972 had been instructed to bomb targets in North Vietnam regardless of whether they were fired upon first. Thiswouldhave violated the rule!"> of the air war at that time. 
Los Angeles --President Nixon ended a brief campaign trip in -Los , Angeles with a strong defense of his economic and foreign policies. Nixon asserted that his economic strategies had reduced unemployment in California from 7.1 per cent to 5.8 per cent in the last year, while the rate of inflation had declined and real earnings increased nationwide. 
Nt•w York--The Soviet Union's recent purchase of more than $1 billion in American wheat, feed grains and soybeans, the biggest grain deal in history. appears to have been a remarkable financial cop for the buyers from Moscow. The Russians, who were tough barginers, bought up about 25 per cent of the American wheat crop at bargain prices. Domestic and world prices have jumped more than 50 per cent since they started buying. 
an campus taday 
friday 
9:00 
& 11:00 --movie, dr. strangelove, engineering auditorium 

9:00 
--folk music, campus artists, alumni 


lounge saturday 
1:30 .. football, irish vs. purdue, nd stadium 
8:30 --concert, chicago, ace sunday 
7:00 & 9:00 --movie, dr. strangelove, engineering auditorium 
8:00 --lecture, rev. harry j. browne, tran­sforming institution for human develop­ment, cce 

at nd-smc 

Wlll divert war funds 
•

MeG 1ssues urban stand 
by James M. Naughton attack by the Senator and the mayors on the ad­lcl 1!172 New York Times ministration's urban record. "The sharpest differences between myself and my 
Observer ads pay off 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Washington, Sept. 28--:sen. ut!urge JVIcGovern, declaring that the 1972 Presidential election was a "referendum on the future of our cities," pledged here today to reverse the priorities of the Nixon ad­ministration. 
In his first major policy statement on urban issues, the Democratic nominee asserted that the President had permitted the war, inflation, tax inequities and unemployment to intensify the problems of the nation's mayors. 
"The major enemy of this country is not in Hanoi," McGovern said. "The major enemy of America is within. It's the collapse of our cities due to inadequate resources." 
opponent. Mr. Nixon, are the differences which directly affect our cities," McGovern said. 
"The things he vetoes--like education, pay-care centers, job training, public service employment--are bills would not veto, I would be urging the Congress to expand." McGovern asserted. "The things he twists the Congress's arms to pass--like the SST and the ABM and the continuance of the war in Indochina--are the things I would be urging the Congress to postpone or to cancel." 
Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York, who was named with mayors JosephL. Alioto of San Francisco and Roman S. Gribbs of Detroit as a co-chairman of "Mayors for McGovern-Shriver," said that McGovern 
lie promised to channel some $26 billion in federal . had "plunged into" urban problems in contrast with 
funds, including $4 billion of emergency aid to the cities. into programs to create jobs, strengthen law Pnforcement. provtde-property tax relief and upgrade housing. schools and transit systems in the cities, where most Americans--and voters--live. 
The funds, McGovern said, would be diverted from the "unending, senseless war in Vietnam," the military budget and the "special tax favors for the wealthy" that he proposed to discontinue. 
Nothing that the South Dakotan advocated this morning, in a news conference with 10 Democratic mayors, constituted a new campaign pledge. But it marked the first time that the Democratic nominee had linked his proposals directly to the plight of the cities and provided an opportunity for a concerted 
The newest is called 




MANHATTAN MANTOPS R. 
Manhattan offers you a wide variety of brand new whirt­s,sweaters and turtlenecks called Mantops ... you can create you own look with the large variety of calors, styles and fabrics. We're now featuring a fine collection of Mantops ... stop in for a look. 
The Mantops shown is a cotton canvas shirt with quilted shoulders and unique button treatment. $15 

NEW KNIT SUITS 
Knit is it for comfort, fit and good looks. Choose your now ...$65 upward 

administration attempts "to exploit fear" with cam­paign rhetoric. 
Mayor Kevin H. White of Boston contended that "George McGovern's election is imperative for the future of the American city" because he said only the Democratic nominee was committed to ending the war and seeking major tax reform to provide the money to improve life in the cities. 
Joining Mayors Lindsay, Gribbs and White in denouncing President Nixon's priorities were Mayors Alfred B. Delbello of Yonkers, Thomas Luken of Cincinnati, Kenneth A. Gibson of Neward, Kathy Kirschbaum of Davenport, Iowa, Bert Williams of El Paso. Tex., Lee Alexander of Syracuse, N.Y., and Ivan Lebamoff of Fort Wayne, Ind. 
PAY NEXT YEAR NO SERVICE CHARGE 
Pay one-third in January, one­third in February, one-third in March. No service or carrying charge. 
TONIGHT 


People and Song 
present 

Donna Dixon  Butch Ward  
Jim McKee  Chuck Beck  
Alumni  Hall  Lounge  Fridays 9-2  
Refreshments  Admission  25  cents  

ZAGRANS' ZINEMA WEST 
presents 



"REQUIEM FOR A HEAVYWEIGHT" 
Staring 
Anthony Quinn and Jackie Gleason one showing only FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 29 
at 8:00 
and announcing the GRAND OPENING OF AMERICA'S COFFEE HOUSE Sensational Folk Group Bob and Robin performing at 9:30 Come to "AMERICA" in the basement at Flenner 

Admission · $1.00 For Entire Evening 


Friday, September 29, 1972 the observer 


Cultural Arts Commission 1972-1973 





DANCE and DRAMA SERIES 
featuring
. ; 


MARCEL MARCEAU 
"The World's Greatest Mime" 
OCT.  17th  The National Players  
Aristophane's "THE BIRDS"  
NOV. 4th  The Second City Players  
FEB.  16th  Marcel Marceau  
FEB.  17th  Saeko lchinohe-Japanese Ballet C·o.  

Plus -One More Event To Be Announced 

PATRONS ADMITTED FREE! Patron Card For All 5 Events $7.00 Sales Will Begin In Dining Halls Next Week 
Loyal sons (and daughters) march onvvard to victory 
by Lee E. Klosinski Observer Staff Reporter 
This Saturday, as the Notre Dame Band enters into its 127 year, eight new female members will be marching their way into history. 
Approximately ten women auditioned for positions. Each of them underwent the same rigorous audition that the men did. 
Freshman Betsey Jaeger summed up her feelings about making the band in three words: ''I like it!'' Lucy Eberhart Cannata feels honored. She stated, "It's lots of work and lots of time, but it's worth every minute of it." 
Mary Beth Bruengardt tried out for the band because she likes music. Even though she was the target of wolf-whistles when she was late for the second practice, she feels that "the guys have been really nice." 
Despite all the recent publicity that the women have received, the 117 male band members do not seem to resent their new 

colleagues. Band President Jerry Baker 
things that an "integrated" band "is great." 
He continued, "We were worried last 
semester about the girls marching with us. 
Now they do just as well, if not better, than 
some of the guys." 
Harvey Humphrey explained that there 
was some resentment at the beginning of the 
year, but he added a that after the auditions 
the women were accepted. He stated, "Now 
they're as much a part of the band as 
anyone else is." 
The band's only female bass player, Rosemary Crock, agreed that being a girl presented a challenge to her at first, but she quickly added that "It's hard work, but that's 
an important part of it." 
John Seguist, band publicity director, 
explained that there was no quota system or 
set of double standards used in auditioning. 
"There isn't any place for objections. 
Everything has been as fair as possible, and 
now we're all getting along fine," he said. 
new addition to Irish tradition ... 
.. but how will they look in niforms? 
the observer Friday, September 29, 1972 

Bremer's sentence reduced 10 years 
((') 1972 Washington Star-News 
Upper Marlboro, Md., Sept. 28-:A three-judge circuit court panel m Prince George's Country, Md., today reduced the sentence of Arthus Bremer, the man convicted of shooting Alabama Gov. George 
C. Wallace. from 63 to 53 years. 
Trip to India over vacation slated by SMC history dept. 
by Andi Husser 

Obst>rvt>r Starr Reporter 
In an attempt to broaden the American student's knowledge of the culture outside his own, a study tour of India is being planned for this Christmas vacation. The tour sponsored by the Saint Mary's <'ollegt.> history department, will be for crt.>dit and will include visits to some of India's major cities as well as to ancient landmarks and eultural centt.>rs. 
Dr. Cyriac Pullapilly of SMC's history department hopes this trip will provide a strong foundation for thP Asia studies course he hopes to start nt.>xt fall. He believes that 
understanding the basic phitosophy and spiritualism in India's culture will aid in un­dt.>rstanding the activities of the Asiatic countries that surround India and are directly influenced hv it. 
· Major points of interest to be visited are the Ajanta Cave pain­tings, the Moghul monuments, llindu andBuddhistshrines and the Taj Mahal. Meetings with India's lt.>ading artists, discussions with political leaders and lectures at the universties will highlight the tours of tht.> major cities of Bombay, DPiphi. Madras, and Calcutta. 
l<'urther clues as to whatthPrds to be found in mystical India can be found in a special series of movies being shown every other Sunday in Carroll Hall. the next of which will beshownon October 8 at 8:00p.m. The estimated cost of this tour is 
$1000.00  which  will  include  all  
traveling t.>xpenses a nd hotel  ac­ 
eom modations  


The action came on a review of sentence hearing requested by Bremer, the 22-year old Milwaukee former busboy who on Aug. 4 was found guilty of assault with intent to murder Wallace and three others in a Laurel, Md., shopping­center. 
In effect, the judges reduced the 33 years Bremer had been sen­tenced on the Wallace counts to 23, in line with the sentences he received on charges on the other three persons. 
Judge James H. Taylor, Chairman of the panel, made no comment as he announced the reductions after an hour's deliberation. The other two panelists were judges William B. McCullough and Roscoe B. Parker. 
During the hearing, Bremer, looking somewhat plump after nearly two months in the Maryland State Penitentiary in Baltimore, said he was a "victim of grave injustice...in the heart of a political year, I was an easy target of repression." 
"Sixty-three years is more than a life sentence," Bremer told the court at a 45-minute hearing. "It is severe and harsh. I plead for a reduction of the sentence,'' he said. 
Bremer was convicted of shooting Wallace, secret service agent Nicholas Zarbos, Alabama State Trooper Capt. E. C. Dothard and Dora Thompson, a Wallace campaign worker, at a May 15 rally during the Maryland primary campaign. 
He still faces federal charges in connection with the shooting of Wallace and Zarvos. 


UNIVERSITY ACADEMIC COUNCIL 
Applications Accepted 
NOW THROUGH TUES. OCT. 3 FOR POSITIONS IN THE COLLEGES OF SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING 
Applicants should submit resumes to Dean's 
office 1n their respective colleges. Interviews 
will be conducted next week. 


NOW AVAILABLE AT THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
2nd Floor 

THE GLORY 
OF 


NOTRE DAME 
It is a volume no Notre Dame fan can be without. It is a volume no football fan can do without. It is the story of Notre Dame football, covered by the magazine and the writers that were there as each chapter was unfolding. And it is the sotry of those kids who 
came  up  out  of  the  
railroad  towns  and  
cities  and  farms,  and  

who saw those dreams fulfilled--not only for personal glory, but for The Glory of Notre Dame. 
...$6.95 
also available 

PARSEGHIAN AND NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
by Ara Parseghian and Tom P agna ...$9.95 

NOTRE  DAME:  ITS  
PEOPLE  AND  
LEGENDS  

by Francis Wallace ...Special $1.96 




LET3 
GET 

PEISOIAL 
AlOUT 
IT! 


!#rs01lt11Jz~ 
1 




CUSTOM 

SHIRTS 
WH\TE. 1-SHIRTS 
COLOR \RIM 1-S~IR'tS HEATHER 1-S"IRlS OLYMPIC. GRAY l-S~IRTS 
COLORED T-S"IR1S 
FOOTBAl\. JE~EYS lANK \OPS 
tJI/E/170 #tJJIELTYJJES/b#S 
Sl'eCIAL PI5C.OUNTS 
TO OR.~NIZA110M~ F'Oa GltOUP SALliS 


~ll MlSMAWAQ A'fl. ACIOSI FlOM ADAMS ~.S . 
Friday, September 29, 1972 

Showers, lockers added 
Rock, ACC renovated for women 
by James Baum Observer Staff Reporter 
Although physical education courses have changed little in the wake of coeducation, the presence of women in the classes has necessitated some major changes in both the Rockne Memorial and the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Renovations to adapt the Rock facilities for women's use began about two years ago, when an old wrestling room was converted into a locker room for women on the faculty or in graduate school, as well as some St. Mary's students. 


Authorized 
hot dog stands 
place Purdue Pittshu: gh l·'issouri TCU Miami 
Bookstr. AIE5EC Alpha EpsJ.lon Boxing AIAA Soph. Class Delta 
Fieldh5e.  Investment  Amateur r.adio  Pangborn  
Law Schr:ol  Amateur Radio  Geology Club  Howard  
O'Shl!lg  
F'inarce Club  Holy Cross  Fir.arce Club  
South oirJ.  Old  College Swi!Mling Team  I rvestmeL:t  Arnold Air  
---­---- 
LaFortune  Happy Day Physics Math  Management  Swimming  
Caro? Center  
!"'rgi n.  AIChE AIChE  Pangborn  Bree n-Phil .  Detroit  
,.lumni  ALumni Omicror. Delta  AIAA  Alumni  Omicron Delt  
Epsilon  Epsilon  
Dillon  Glee  Club Grad,  Stud.  AIESEC  Celtic Soc.  Boxing  
Urian  

Walsh Walsl: Walsh Rowi r.q sld Club Ski Club 
1.\adi r. ld College Badir. Geology 
Flaq Pole rad Stud. Celtic Soc. Gler: Club 
Bus, Ad. Alpha Qelha 
r.;orth Quad or...h 
arl~y 
St. Ed's Howard Bree n-Phil. 
Sor: r Holy 
Eps. Happy Day Care Detroit Quad North Quad North Quad 
Zahm ~llil.nlil.ugh 
Howard 

Cross 
Badin Physics Soph Class Management Row.i r.q Club Math North Quad North Quad 
Keeran StanfoDi 
f.t. Ed's St. Ed's 
Breen-Phill. 

SMC meal hours change: several students protest 
by Kathrene Wales 
Observer Staff Reporter 
New dining hours for :;t. Mary's went into effect yesterday. Break­fast begins at 7 a.m. continuing until 9:15 with the continental. Lunch is from 10:45 until 1:30 and dinner starts at 4:45 and ends at !i:30. This schedule is for Monday through Friday only. Weekend hours remain the same. 
Former times were longer for all three meals. Breakfast previously began at 7: 15 and lasted untillO: 15 including the continental. Lunch ran from 10:45 until 2 and dinner hours were from 4:30 until 6:30. 
According to food manager Ken Levitt. the main reason for these changes was the decrease in enrollment. The Saga food service did not make this decision alone. It was a cooperative effort with the student food committee, the ad­ministration and the food service, Levitt claimed. 
Levitt felt that is wasn't necessary for the dining hall to be open the amount of time it was to accomplish its purpose. The new hours allow enough time for students to eat in accordance with the present class schedule. "We are not a coffee shop, we are a food service," the manager said. 
Student reaction is mostly 
against the breakfast time change. Many feel that it isn't staying open late enough. 
Positive attitudes towards the new hours reflect the absence of long waiting lines. Levitt ex­plained that this was due to the addition of an express lane. 
Good Afternoon. 



Has a TGIF Party 

EVERY FRIDAY 
Celebrate Early for NO's Win Over "PURDUE" Do it With Two Great Bands, Open Bar, Dancing, Whatever Start the Weekend Off Right 

Phone 683-4350 

When the university went coed this year, the physical education department modified both this room as well as the adjoining boxing room. Showers were in­stalled in the wrestling room, and carpeting and lockers were added. Dr. Thomas Fallon, Chairman of the Physical Education Depart­ment, noted that there is even more room for expansion. 
According to Dr. Fallon, there are no provisions for St. Mary's students unless they are either taking at least three credit hours of courses at Notre Dame, or paying a $50.00 activities fee per semester. 
An added rear entrance to the building allows women to enter during the day, since both side entrances open onto the men's locker rooms. The girls have equal use of all the building's facilities. 
In contrast the ACC has required few changes to accomodate women. According to John Plouff, Managing Director of the ACC, the intramural lockers near the Central Issue Room were con­verted into showers and lockers for the girls over the summer. They had been originally "overflow" lockers for the men. 
Actual courses offered by the 
Phys. Ed. department have 
changed little, save for the obvious 
addition of female students. 
Before the year began, it was 
decided that the women would 
receive no special treatment by 
the department. · 
The only activity banned for 

Plouff: Showers and lockers for girls added this summer 

Fallon: Still more room for expansion 
women is soccer, which the department does not feel to be a "coeducational sport." In the opinion of Dr. Francis Sellers, University physician, girls shouldn't be allowed to play soccer because of their relative lack of durability. 
The program, in general, seems to working well, as no girls have yet requested to be excused from the courses. Physical Education at Notre Dame has gradually drifted away from calisthenics and is now placing emphasis on sports which can be played throughout life. Such sports as volleyball, tennis and handball are considered to be ideal for a coeducational program. 
In the heart of downtown South Bend 



OD FOOD AT M EST PRICES 
·Steaks ·Chops -'Chicken ·Sea Fooa Quiet ·atmosphere -pleasant Ul!!:r~., surroundings 



71;A~Jrs. 
i. 1-J~A-1--'. 
. CLOSED MONDAYS 
Daily & Sunday 11 am till 9 pm Saturday 11 am till 10 pm 



THE OBSERVER 

AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER  
John Abowd  Dan Thornton  
News: 283-1715  Editor-in-chief  Business Manager  
EditoriaI: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471  Don Ruane Executive Editor  Joe Butler Advertising Manager  

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Friday, September 29, 1972 

Bikes --Last Reminder 
Bike rip-offs are a raw deal. Anybody who goes out and pays anywhere from fifty to two-hundred dollars for a bike r sure doesn't want to find it missing the next day or even the next period. And
.. 
even if the bike only cost ten dollars, everybody knows the inconvenience that causes, and then there's the problem of finding a noth£·r ten-dollar bike. 
Nobody likes rip-offs. But the fact of the rna tter now is that they do happen, and if they do, unless the owner is protected, he has to take it. 
The Farley Cyclers have provided a means of protection. Together with the Security Department, they're offering registration with both local and national bicycle retreival systems. And they're being ignored. 
Out of some estimated 2000 bikes on both campuses, the Farley Cyclers have registered 70. A disappointing figure considering the number of thefts last year. 
Today is the last day the Cyclers will be in LaFortune. This is the bike owners' last chance to get protection against permanent theft for a cheap price. Register your bike. Don't get shafted. 
Joseph Abell 
No Conflict 
In order to avoid conflicts of interest, the two members of the Observer Editorial Board recently elected to the Student Life Council will not be allowed to sit or vote in sessions concerning issues before the SLC or the nature of the SLC itself. 
If the new constitution is adopted­making Fred Giuffrida and Anthony Abowd members of the Student Govern­ment Board; then, their status as members of the Editorial Board will be reconsidered. 
The Editorial Board 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Letter . 
Naked's endorsement of me to succeed him as the new Notre Dame Stripper kind of caught me with my pants down! At my unofficial debut during the Blue­Gold game last spring I was somewhat less than impressive. My inexperience kind of showed lalong with other things> and I knew that I had to work a few of the bugs out if I was to be in the run­ning to SUCCl'Pd "The Naked Kahuna." So I spent the whole summer preparing myself and I think I have finally mastered the art of stripping. 
I spent many sleepless nights on a bar room stool getting myself in thP right spirit to go through with my strenuous task. And it took many days of long hard practice in order to learn the right techniques 'If stripping. I started out in an old abandoned house where there were 

daanesbury 
no human eyes to view me. And after I had built up my confidence I began to expose myself to little old ladies. Next I began stripping for girl scout benefits and bridge clubs. And from there it was just a matter of time before I was fully prepared to strip in front of huge crowds in order to inspire them to cheer Notre Dame on to victory. 
And now all my time and effort has paid off and I would like to offer my sincerest thanks to Jamie "The Naked Kahuna" Egan for selecting me as his successor. I consider it a great honor to follow in his footsteps (?). 
There is one more thing I would like to mention before I close. In our changing world there is nothing that is sacred anymore. Alas, Notre Dame has become coed. And that calls for one more 

from the new naked 
tradition to be laid aside. The time has come for Notre Dame to have its first coed stripper come for­ward and "let it all hang out". If there are any interested females around I would like them to apply to me in person for a screening. And after I have selected several qualified girls who have met all the requirements, I will hold an "undress" rehearsal after which I will announce the first "Knaked Koed". 
My final words are that I will go "all off" to keep up the sacred tradition in "flying drawers". And I promise to put one hundred proof, I mean percent, effort into my act. 
Devotedly yours in Notre Dame, 
Piece and Love, 

Ed "The Knaked Klunker" Klunk 
~----------------~ 
1 

OON T /AJORI2't;ff!Kc-' Htktd 
ZO#IIE.R t.EFT FOR 

)15. CAVCVS, 7H~T3 PtfJYTHe MH£ IUITHOUT 
WILt. YOU COME 
JUST HIS PR/ICTICE YOU rfll/1/lr 11/E SH()()UJ 
HIS Ha..HET! 00/1/'T 
!3f)tt./
HEU1eT HES 60T /1 
S?EC!/IL HELMET f="OR
6£T IT TO HIM? 
617HESI '-... 



CIJPIV/1
\ 
I " 


Only Castles Burninr:J 





Polinomics I 
jahn abawd 
One of the most trying tasks in any election year is decifering the economic policies of the candidates. This is particularly true of welfare economics because the fiscal issues are usually tied inex­tricably to political arguments concerning the number of "loafers" on the welfare roles. Nevertheless since both candidates are committed to major revisions in the method of public support for the poor, an 
explanation guaranteed confusions s of the annual urround mechanics of the negative income can eliminate many ing these ideas.  income of the  tax tech and nical  
Negative income taxes  

The two most important aspects of welfare economics are the level of guarantee and the rate of negative income tax. The level of guarantee is the minimum income that the government will provide for a poor family which has no income from employment. The negative income tax is the rate at which the guaranteed income is reduced as income from employment is increased. All welfare proposals contain these two elements, even the existing program. 
If a family is "on welfare" and neither the husband nor wife is <'mployed then the amount of yearly income from the welfare check represents the guaranteed annual income. If one of the heads of household should become employed; then, under the present system, for every dollar earned the welfare check is reduced by one dollar. The negative income tax rate is 100 percent. For example, if a family's wPifare guarantee is $2,000 per year and the wife earns $500 then the wdfare payment is reduced to $1500. 
All of the revisions to the current welfare system involve negative income tax rates below 100 percent. The theory is that if the family is not penalized one dollar for every dollar earned, the incentive to work will be increased. As the negative tax rate decreases, work incentive should increase. The amount of employment derived from this in­creased incentive should eventually reduce the total amount necessary to provide every poor family with a guaranteed annual income. 
Highest subsidized incomes 
One of the most critical elements of any proposed welfare revision is the highest subsidized income. This is the largest amount a family could earn before all welfare payments would be ended. The highest subsidized income is determined entirely by the negative income tax rate and the level of guarantee. 
If the guaranteed annual income is $4,000 and the negative income tax rate is 33 percent; then, the highest subsidized income is $12,000. In general. the largest family income which will still be subsidized can be eomputed by multiplying the guaranteed annual income by the in­verse of the negative income tax rate. (e.g. 3 X 4,000 equals 12,000). 
This does not mean that a family earning $11,999 gets a $4,000 welfare check in addition. In fact, this family will receive only one dollar in welfare payments. In order to compute how much any family's welfare payment would be to multiply the earnings times the negative income tax rate and subtract the product from the guaran­teed annual income. <e.g. 4,000-(.33 X 11,999) equals 1) 
.Judging the system 
Many critics of the negative income tax plan insist that the expense of subsidizing incomes as high as $12,000 is too great. This argument cannot be evaluated using only the information about guaranteed annual incomes and negative income tax rates. At some level over the guaranteed annual earnings the positive income tax becomes a factor. 
For example. if a family earns $6,000 under the welfare model above. they could expect a $2,000 welfare check. But if the positive income tax rate at this income is 15 percent, then the family would owe the government $900. The net gain is only $1100. 
Obviously many variations are possible in the level of guaranteed annual income, the negative tax rate and the positive tax rate. The point is that all three factors must be included in an evaluation of any prospective welfare system 
Specifically. the only reasonable method of testing any given mix of guarantees and rates is by measuring the trade-off between labor force participation and the negative income tax rate. Once this is accomplished <no easy task), the costs of the welfare program within a unified structure of positive and negative income tax rates can be compared with the considerable costs of unemployment. <Unem­ployment costs are measured in terms of lost output in the society.) Only when these figures are available can any President make a reasonable policy decision on welfare programs. 
McGovern and Nixon are both faced with this scenario. The public debate over welfare proposals could be greatly aided if the candidates would provide more of the necessary information. 

rjarry trudeau 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 

l:he sl:aff 
Nite Editor: Joe Abell Ass't Nite Editor: Maria Gallagher Layout: Bill Brink, Marlene Zloza, AI 
Rutherford Day Editor: Bill Sohn Typists: Joe Wilkowski, Dianne Chermside, 
Dave Rust, Tom Modglin, Rich Meloy Nite Controller: Steve Roper 
....._ ~........... ,.f I .. I'"' -~-·--'\ -•• ~ w ,. • ~' .......... 
~---------------------------------~~­
-~ 

Friday, September 29, 1972 
the observer 

7 
chicago, past & present 

kevin dockrell 
Chicago is a very good rock band. They Shower"-but overall it's weak and un­and flute. Their concerts are unmatched for are also very successful. Which is not polished, one of the few real major disap­energy and equalled, but not surpassed for always the same thing. pointments in the 1971-and it sat on top of the power. It's alot like being in the Loop at 5:00 
They came from the Windy City, all but Billboard charts for 17 weeks. on Friday. You don't know what to expect. one, at first under the shadow of groups like Then there's the live album. Pretention Chicago is a singular entity in the rock The Buckinghams and The Cryan'Shames, pays off in a four-record set which would world and before they are done, I think they until one day in 1967 when producer JW have been better unreleased. There are will tear your head apart, and put it back Guercio joined them. So they became several well-performed tunes here, but we together again. Chicago Transit Authority, playing at would have been better off with two less places like Shu! a's and the small suburban records, no six-foot poster, and a nice cover. Chicago clubs, paying their dues. Then 1972. Rock goes to the country. Neil 



theater notes
Guercio got them signed by Columbia and Young & Kristofferson are the new stars, the rest is pretty much known. country bands are springing up all over the The first album, (1Jicago Transit place, and all across the nation electric .\uthority. was unusually strong for a first guitars are gathering dust in the cell. And 
The ND-SMC Lab Theatre opens its 1972­
attempt. more important in retrospect for here comes CHICAGO V, a single record franklin devine
73 season with a world premiere evening of
its impact than its contents. The emergence filled with city music. 
experimental dance. Danny Chambliss'
at the time <July, 1969) of a band that took At first it seems weak, but the strength is The company is not limited to students. It
Visionar~ Revelations of Man opens in the
the best of AI Kooper's early BS&T and there, after the tenth listening or so. features Sadel Wright, a film editor at
Little Theatre of Moreau Hall Friday,
made it rock was significant. The album CHICAGO Vis everything in conception that WNDU-TV, and 9-year-old Teavie
October 20 at 8:30 p.m.
was a success. and somehow Chicago was went into III, but with all the execution that Cleveland, daughter of Granville Cleveland labelled the new "brassrock" band in town. III so sadly lacked. "A Hit by Varese" Although Notre Dame and Saint Mary's of Notre Dame's Law School Library.CHICAGO. the silver album, remains showcases the album, followed by several have often played host to visiting dance Sadel Wright has worked with Chambliss
troupes, no local group has performed at thetheir best effort. and one of the real really solid songs-there is nothing weak here before, as the lead dancer of South Bend'sUniversity in recent memory. Visionary
masterworks of the rock years. An absolute at all. Chicago is now a real horn band-with Charisma Dancers, a Black Interprave
ex­

gem is this. just equisite, the real flowering the horn section really carrying the band's Re\'elations of Man is a three-part Dance group founded by Chambliss.
perimental dance written, produced andof seven highly talented individual sound. Lamm remains their major directed Notre sophomore, Other cast members include Richard Van musicians. CHICAGO revealed three strong songwriter, but Pankow has a strong entry by a Dame 
Danny Chambliss. Berkel, Kathy Meyer, Susan Stone, Crysssongwriters (Lamm, Kath & Pankow), their in "Now That You've Gone", <md Terry Chambliss' evening of dance explores the Symsak and Kathrene Wales.
vocal abilities <which in a wierd way are the Kath's only contribution-"Alma Mater", is gradual "mechanization of man" by man's Instead of presenting problems, Cham­best around), their unparalled instrumental easily the best thing on the album, and his own technology. The opening segment bliss' mixture of experienced and unex­virtuosity, and their horns, arranged with best tune since "Memories of Love". 
reveals the primitive dance of a time "when perienced dancers offers possibilities to theunmatched brilliance by James Pankow. Chicago is much better in concert than the 
CHICAGO is a stunning experience, live album would have you believe. Their men were lions." The dance's second part young director. Much of the dance is an views transition primitive attempt at primitive movement, in the
especially Pa rkow 's "Ballet For a Girl in real foundation lies in their rythm section­the from to modern man, while the final episode director's words, "the raw substance ofBuchannon", which gave birth to their first drummer Dan Seraphine and bassist Peter 
projects to man." The effect can be better achieved by monster single, "Make Me Smile." Cetera ; their instrumental strength in a future, totally automatic human race. "people moved by the music" rather thanSomething happened between CHICAGO Robert Lamm on keyboards and guitarist is interesting by experienced dancers.
and CHICAGO III, something which Terry Kath. Kath, by anyone's standards is Cham bliss' troupe an assortment of experienced and unex­Chambliss himself has experience both asremains unexplained but still painfully certainly one of the world's best guitarists a dancer and director. While still in highapparent. They tried to get heavy, too including Stills, Clapton, Roy Buchannon perienced members of the University. 
Some dancers such and school, the South Bend native formed the
heavy, after setting a precedent which could and Mahavishnu'·s John McLaughlin, The as Debbie Hale 
Stephanie Smith years Charisma Dancers and appeared at the ACC 
never be repeated. III has its moments­horns are the real power in the band-James have ten dancing 
"Sing A Mean Tune Kid", "Happy Cause Pankow on trombone, Lee Loughnane on experience, while others, such as Joe in the dance review, Motion and Com­Schlosser and Billy Banner, have limited motion. He has also studied Black In­
I'm Goin Home", and "An Hour In The trumpet, and Walt Parazaider on alto sax 
experience. terprative Dance at NYU's Stoneybrook campus. Chambliss currently performs as a member of the Indiana University En­semble. 
Music by the New York street musician, Moondog, dominates the dance's score. Chambliss also employs electronic music 

classical music revives 
donald henahan 
and the noises of an open field. 
The ND-SMC Theatre's AI Fierro and <c l 1!172 New York Times News Service library series, aimed at the classical­Chris Egan have designed the multi-media music newcomers. And for the more ex-set for Visionary Revelations of Man. Mary
New York <undated)--The people who perienced collector, there will be a six­Mahalek, also of the theatre, has designed
make classical recordings are pinching record package paying tribute to Joseph costumes as surreal spin-offs from the basic themselves, cautiously but happily, as they Szigeti on his 80th birthday. The set in­leotard. The surreal effects will be reflected look forward to the 1972-73 season. Since eludes not only reissues of the violinist's in the Fierro-Egan lighting and mask-liketheir darkest days, some three or four famous recordings, but also two Beethoven makeup.
seasons ago, they have been slowly but sonatas he recorded with Artur Schnabel in Chambliss is looking forward to hissteadily returning to life. Although much of 1947. 
premier, but is hardly complacent. Thethe quality in the forthcoming-record lists !<,rom Columbia, too, will come the first choreographer-director is already at work 
centers on foreign-based labels, the recording of Scott Joplin's opera, 
on another evening of experimental dance
domestic brands are also beginning to sit up "Treemonisha"; all of Webern's music, in a · which he hopes to see produced during theand take nourishment. project that is being supervised by Pierre spring semester.
The classical record industry on the Boulez and is about 80 per cent finished; the whole, however, will continue to run in complete Beethoven piano sonatas by grooves cut during the bottoming-out Rudolf Serkin; two Vladimir Horowitz period. Heavy-handed, often witless and disks, made up of some new and some old pointless, promotion still is regarded in material; Stravinsky's "The Rite of Spring" some circles as the way to entrap youths by Leonard Bernstein; the late quartet of 


genesis 5
into buying classical music. ("Stravinsky Beethoven, by the Juilliard Quartet; four Had To Sacrifice A Young Virgin To Boulez records, devoted to Wagner, Bertioz, Revolutionize Music," gasps the caption Scriabin and Bartok the concerto for or­
in the title. r?l,~ <DDG); Berlioz:s "Be~-"GENESIS 5"-NEW COLLECTION OF 
over an advertisement for a new version of chestra. 
ven'!~o Celhm, conduct~d by Cohn Davis . SHORT FILMS TO BE SHOWN
"The "Rite of Spring.") The Boulez-Bartok and the Bernstein-<Philips); Wagner's "Tristan and Isolde,"At least for the near future, there will be · Stravinsky will be issued in quadraphonic conducted by Von Karajan <Angel). ''Genesis two-hour of
5", a collection 
more ingenuity in repackaging older per-<four channel) sound as well as stereo. Nicholas Harnoncourt's Herculean plan to excellent short films made by students and 
formances and more variations ~n the Columbia reports that about one-quarter of record all the 20()-Qdd Bach cantatas independent filmmakers will be shown "greatest hits" theme. RCA promises to its releases will be in quad. RCA is putting proceeds on telefunken, with volumes 4,5 October 20-21 at 8-10 pm in the Engineering issue, for instance, "Bach's Greatest out about 10 per cent of its list in quad. and 6 scheduled to appear this season. Antal Auditorium. This exciting entertainment Fugues," with the Philadelphia Orchestra, Other labels, such as Deutsche Gram­Dorati, about one-third of the way into the package is sponsored by Cultural Arts as an and it is anyone's guess whether "Greatest mophon Gesellschaft, Nonesuch, London 107 Haydn symphonies, will offer volumes 6 
exclusive event in tis area. As in the past
Rondos" or "Greatest Doubl~anon_s" and Phillips, have been recording in four­and 7, on London. Leopold Stokowski's Genesis programs, Genesis 5 has a will be out next . Bu~ RCA offlcials ~m~t channel systems as well as stereo for some concert commemorating the 60th an­representative balance of short film genres: out that their season will also offer Belhm s time. 
niversary of his appearance with the animation, drama, documentary and "Norma," with Montserrat Cabelle, Placide Wagner's Ring Cycle, which until a few London Symphony, recorded last April, will satire. Domingo and Fiorenza Cossotto, an<~ the years ago had never been released in be out on London. 
A number of the 14 films in this years
first American release. of Shostakovitch's complete form, will be available this season Das Alte Werke will bring out Rameau's program deal with 1950's and 1960's symphony no.l5, with Eugene Ormandy and in four, and possibly five, versions: besides opera "Castor et Pollux" under Har­nostalgia. Some of the shorts have won film the Philadelphia Orchestra. Whatever ones conducted by Georg Solti (London), noncourt's direction. The busy Madame festival, "Frogs" at Ann Arbor, Kent State arguements might be raised against this and Herbert Von Karajan 's (DGG), the ring Caballe will be heard in Puccini's "Manon and Yale and "Heavenly Star" at the kind of high road, low-road strategy, they shopper may choose among a historic Lescaut," with Placido Domingo (Angel). Chicago, Kenyon and Midwest Film cannot be financial ones: last year RCA performance by Wilhelm Furtwangler Vanguard offers Cherubini's Missa Festivals. In addition, "Frogs" has won a Red Seal (the company's presti~e Ia?el) (Seraphim), a new, Munich-made series Solemnis, conducted by Newell Jenkins,as CINE Golden Eagle Award and represented went into the black for the first time m a led by Hans Swarowsky (Westminster) and well as a new historical anthology of music, the U.S. in the sort subject category at the decade. in the undated near future a live version similar in intent and scope to DDG's 1972 Cannes Film Festival. 
Columbia, which pioneer~d the '_'Greatest from Bayreuth, from the 1950's, led by Hans renowned archive series. By Christmas, the Edga Daniels, in "Filmmakers Hits" approach, also fares mcreasmgly well Knappertsmusch and with Astrid Varnay as set will run to 32 disks. Newsletter" says this about "Heavenlyon both levels. This season it will be Brunnhilde (Lomdon). 
Because of indw>try-wide adoption in Star", "Until the very end it is a wordless bringing out 20 releases in a masterworks For vocal fans, perhaps the most startling recent years of the Dolby and other noise­ballet, and the humor which flows naturally 
news is that Joan Sutherland has recorded reduction recording systems, classical disks and truly out of remembered experience, is Puccini's "Turandot'" a heavy-weight role ought to be quieter than ever this season. charmingly expressed in dance." not known to be in the colorature soprano's But deficiencies in pressing methods and Genesis previews over 800 short films 
repertory <London). The Puccin,i, recorded corner-eutting in quality control, par­each year at festivals, colleges and in August with Zubin Metha conducting, has ticularly with American made recordings, universities and through individual contact. Pavarotti and Cabelle in the cast, and is have tended to dissipate what seemed to be The best new films available are then rumored to be set for 1973 release~ Beverly revolutionary gains in the fight for noiseless assembled and distributed on profit
a 

Sills finishes her "Donizetti Queens" cycle surfaces. sharing basis with the filmmakers. Our with "Anna Bolena" <ABC-Audio But then, as Stravinsky could have told objective is that film be exhibited both as a 
Treasury). Watch, too, for Delius's "A you, revolutions in music ·are not made creative art form as well as entetainment Village Romeo and Juliet" (Angel, and easily. He, you'll recall, had to sacrifice a and tht new developments in cinema be seen Rossini's "William Ten;· with Cabelle and virgin to bring one about. by audiences across the country. 



Friday, September 29, 1972
the observer

8 
Recardinr:~s 

close to the edge: candidate 



Y'know, so far, this fall has been pretty 
barren when it's come to major LP's. I'd 
have to say that the last release from a 
major group would have to be the Chicago 
V album, and that came out, when, the 
beginning of August? the middle of 
August? It's the end of September now-­
that's six to eight weeks, really a pretty 
long time for the record companies to wait. 
But rejoice all ye rock fans, for Atlantic 
Hecords has fulfilled its promise and has 
finally released the new Yesalbum, Close 
To The Edge. I say promise, not merely 
because the group was "due" for a 
release, but because when I saw the group 
last July, Jon Anderson promised the new 
work "sometime in the next three weeks." 
Ah, well, so Anderson doesn't know his 
ealendars. But somehow, that seems 
minor now, for the LP is well worth the 
extra weeks. 
It started back in an album called Time and A Word, not a first album, but the first 
one to make enthusiasts sit up and take 
notice. A new type of sound was being 
ereated: an orchestration of rock music, 
but without orchestra pieces. The idea 
went further in The Yes Album•, a first 
financial success, and was pushed even 
further in Fragile, last year's blockbuster, 
so much so that one wondered if it could 
\or if anyone wanted to l be taken further. 
To say it quickly, it could be and it was. Close To The Edge is magnificent. There is no part of it that does not live up to the promise made by any of the earlier albums. It is definitely in the majors of rock music, and could very easily cop the pennant this year. 
Rash statements? I don't think so. The 
music is much more complex than ever 
before, the tracks are longer (there's only 
three songs on the entire thing --but each 
song is almost a small concerto by itself), 
and the music is much more "serious" (as 
eompared to the mickeymouse solo cutts 
on Fragile). Yes has most definitely come 
into its own, and I for one hope they stay 
then'. 
Since there are only three songs on the entire album, I don't think I would be too laborious if I took an individual look at them, <I don't usually like to do that, since I can never cover all the songs on an average album). So here goes. 
"And You And I" is about the best of the bunch here. mainly because it does what the earlier "I've Seen All Good People" didn't do: set a mood and keep it. The latter named song starts out in a nice, quiet mood and stays that way for the first three minutes only. This may or may not have been done with the idea of a 45 in mind, but the effect is that once the listener has gotten firmly in the quiet mood, the band explodes into louder, quicker music, thereby destroying the first mood. 
"And You And I" manages to keep its gentle ,mood for the entire ten minutes and nme seconds. Sure, the themes change, hi,Jt they remain subdued. I think this is mostly due to Steve Howe's outstanding acoustic guitarwork and Rick Wakeman's magnificent keyboards, with the over­dubbed tracks of Jon Anderson's voice enhancing both of these. 
Wakeman's soaring mellotron takes the listener on a ride he won't soon forget. Almost reaching Moody Blues proportions, the mellotron has become a real part of Yes music, and coupled with a moog, sounds reminiscient of Sgt. Pepper are heard. 
"Siberian Khatru" is the first song Rick Wakeman has had a hand in writing since joining Yes, and it shows, for the song is lyrically smoother than most Yes songs. But the most outstanding part is the pleasing double chorus Anderson pulls off, once again, by overdubbing. I wonder ho'Y. he 'II do that when they play here in two months. 
This song is also the most memorable of the album, memorable in the sense that it is the easiest to "take along with you." If they're going to take a single off this album, my guess is that here is where 

"It is the light of course, but it is necessary that the place be clean and pleasant. You do not want music. Certainly you do not want music. Nor can you stand before a bar with dignity although that is all that is provided for these hours. What did he fear? It was not fear or dread. It was nothing that he knew too well. It was all a nothing and man was a nothing too. It was only that and light was all it needed and a certain cleanness and order." 
It was Hemingway who wrote of the need for A Clean, Well-Lighted Place -a night place where people can, with dignity, face the dark moods induced by the private wounds and a sense that God is an emp­tiness colliding with the universe. A clean, well-lighted place is a spot where old men come because they cannot sleep. It is needed most when blackness roams the heavens like a thief, hiding in deep pockets the stolen glory of the stars. Its comfort is a substitute for suicide. 
Fortunate is the man who has never felt the knife of dread twisting in cold steel at his heartbeat. Blessed is he who has never seen horror through the eyes of his friend. It is now admitted of the little child of God, St. Teresa of Lisieux, that she was troubled by temptations to atheism. The news is not shocking.All of us are the childrer.of a Father Who disappears periodically as though He were a tosspot at the tavern. We must await 
the drunkardatth(!swinging doors, hoping1He will glimpse his neglected brood hovering together and lost and take us home ag1'n.
Gloomy, moody old priest, you mur ur crossly to yourself, writing of all of us as though we were the bastards sired y heaven and left in abandonment, like e whiskey orphans in a temperance parable. I 
answer: my friend, it was not I who in­
vented the hide-and-seek of the game of 
faith. That is how God wants some of us to 
find Him: in obscurity, in the shadows, in 
the darkness. Perhaps, in the end, we will 
understand that it is harder on Him than on 
us. No parent is ever really comfortable, 
knowing that his urchins are afraid in the 
dark. 
So some of us become Night Ministers, 

opening our rooms, cluttered and dimly-, 
lighted, as substitutes for the clean, well­
lighted places. Our emergencies supplies 
are limited: a cigarette, a cup of instant 
coffee, a word of friendship that, remem­
bered later, can glow like a candle, burning 
at both ends, that will not last the night. 
Why do some of us -bartenders, policemen, priests, the waitresses at Dunkin' Donuts --become Night Ministers? Perhaps it is because we have had the ex­perince, on a number of occasions, of a telephone call from a boy who arrives shortly afterwards, slightly drunk and bleeding at the wrists from the broken shards of a wine bottle drawn deliberately over the veins. Or perhaps it was a kid on a drug trip whom the Infirmary couldn't admit. Or perhaps it was the experience of awakening in the middle ofthenight to find a family member, like a sister, sitting in the darkness beside the bed, hollow-eyed with fear from a sickness of the emotons, seeking the only comfort she could find at that hour in the physical closeness of a human being she trusted. Night ministers are ordained at the altar of human experience. Their seminary is a place of suffering in the deep, dark night of the soul, where it is always three o'clock in the morning. 
It is not only as the sad shepherd of a grim flock that the Night Minister serves. 'Cut him ot in little stars," Juliet said. "and he shall make the face of heaven so fine that all 

for this year's pennant 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Close To The Edge 
Yes 
Atlantic 507244 
$5.98 list 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
they'll go. 
And now the blockbuster --the title track. This is Yes' longest song to date, lasting almost nineteen minutes, and is a fascinating study of musical forms every second. 
Analogies to Jethro Tull's Thick As A Brick and Emerson, Lake and Palmer's Tarkus crop up immediately: a con­tinuous work embodying different motives to approximate a small concerto. 
"Close to the Edge" starts out with an at-first-seemingly-disjointed cacophony of shounds, which, upon closer analysis, is quite an intricate piece. It then resolves into a more flowing and gentle style before sliding into the vocal. The unusually lyrical chorus appears for the first time during the first "movement," and establishes itself as a guiding motif throughout the work. 
The second part sounds quite a bit like the first, only the pace is stepped up. The chorus is still there, only Anderson seems to be in more of a hurry to sing it; at the end, however, and at the start of the third part, it returns to its original form. 
Rick Wakeman takes over here, with a delicate, almost gossamer mellotron­moog solo. A slow spot in the midst of the overall quickness, but out of it comes a gentle vocal harmony and double track of 


a cluttered, dim-lighted place 
rev. rabert r:~riffin 
the world will be in love with night." As with lovers, so with believes, if they have made friends with the darkness. God's face 1there, inthe lights and shadows of heaven; but only the brightness shines through, as when tiny cadles of exstasy are lighted in the eyes and smile of a child celebrating a birthday. The darkness is like a night wine of Christ, tasting of grapes ripened as on golden afternoons in Tuscany, because the sun has planted vineyards in the spaces between the stars, and fire has lain upon the celestial gloomuntil the wine conceived in darkness is heady with fermentations that promise te daybreak. 
It is only sometimes then, that the Night Minister is a therapist to horror. As amatter of fact, the most active Night Minister I know --if you can call it a ministry to have your ears pulled and your tummy scratched -is my cocker spaniel, Carby O'Gill. That intrepid animal is a complete stranger to the ghoulies and ghosties and three-legg~d beasties, and the things that go bump in the night.He just likes to entertain, and he receives more visitors at 120 Keenan between one and five in the morning than the Rector does. That kind of pushiness is apt to occur when you have a pet that has never really learned what it means to be a D.O.G. Most visitors to the cluttered, dim-lighted rooms are the insomniacs caught sleepless in the hours between the Late Show and breakfast, or they are Freshmen taking a study break, or Seniors who get their best naps in the classrooms of O'Shaughnessy, or they are the Night People whose lullaby is the music of the morning stars singing together. 
Do Night Ministers ever get up in the morning to help with the day chores of the Campus Ministry? Indeed they do, but preferably not before eleven o'clock. Frankly, I am closer to being an atheist at 
seven thirty in the morning than all the 
nihilists in the clean, well-lighted places. 
There is someting perfectly horrid about a 
raw, green day noisy with the clatter of 
birds and the banging of garbage trucks. If 
God had wanted us to get up with the milk­
man, He wouldn't have given us window 
shades. 
As a campus minister, I hope soon to 

begin a mid-week prayer meeting to be held 
at ten o'clock on Wednesday evenings. All 
the best praying these days is being done by 
the Pentecostals and th Jesus-freaks. All of 
us Nigt Ministers cold stad a little Jesus­
freaking and a small charismatic renewal of 
our own. Perhaps some of us--ministers or 
not --could learn a greater openness to 
Christ if we prayed together with one 
another. 
Because openness to Christ is what we need 

instead of the clean, well-lighted places and 
their substitutes. 

kiang art exhibit october 1-26 

Dr. Susan Yang Kiang returns to Saint Mary's College as an artist on exhibit in the Moreau Art Gallery, October, 1 -26, 1972. 
Dr. Kiang was a memberof the Saint Mary's faculty from 1960-61, teaching Educational Psychology and Tests and Measurements. 
Dr. Kiang holds the degree of Doctor of Education in Educational Psychology. Born in China, she received an unusually fine education i~ calligraphy; which became the foundation of he art. 
Dr. Kian will demonstrate her methods on Sunday,pctober 15, at 3:30p.m. During the exhibit a demonstration will be available. 


Anderson's that builds and finally gives way to a Wakeman high-organ solo. And out of that comes the exciting fourth "movement," one in which all members of the band shine in a supreme effort. 
The tension builds as the chorus returns and a vague reverberation effect begins to encompass everything. Driving further and further, it peaks at best possible moment to fade out via moog and mellotron. 
The song is a masterpiece, something Yes has been building to for three years. 
I haven't mentioned the lyrics of the album which are more intense and quasi­poetic than before. I haven't discussed the poor jacket construction, the inane painting inside it, or the almost universal warp in copies I've seen. I haven't men-· tioned the disappointment of missing a Wakeman solo heard in concert, or the exclusion of the recent single, "America". But I drag now. 
To say this album is great and worth the money, and all those things, would be a definite understatement. Few albums have I seen that have matched the am­bition and accomplishment ofClose To The Edge. It ranks with the aforementioned Sgt. Pepper, the first Chicago album, and Tommy as a milestone in rock and popular music. 

Friday, September 29, 1972 the observer 
Non-violence seminar lives: 


revived by Dolan, O'Leary 
By Mike O'Hare 
Professors Jay Dolan and Basil O'Leary met with students yesterday to discuss revitalization of the Non-Violence program. 
Prof. Dolan, of the History department, traced the events that have led to the Non-Violence program's current situation to the 15 students attending the library lounge meeting. He pointed out that he progra lapsed out of formal existence this fall when a $100,000 grant from the Gulf Oil Company was exhausted. This year the 
program only exists  as  eight  or  
none  cross-listed  courses  in  
several departments.  

Last February, Dean Crosson, of the College of Arts and Letters, created a committee to review the Non-Violence program's brief history and potential future. The committee reported back in favor of continuing the program under two .conditions. 
They recommended the ap­pointment of a full time director to head the program and tha the program be provided with a greater inter-disciplinary and academic emphasis. The com­mittee's report was presented to the College Council this past WPdnesday, which tabled the report pending further develop­ment. 
According to Prof. Dolan, the Non-Violence program will con­tinue at a low level in order to "keep the issues of peace and non­violence alive and in the forefront." He expressed the hope of having a speaker come to campus every month and discuss various aspects of non-vi~'lence. This program will begin next Wednesday when Prof. David O'Brien of Holy Cross and Sr. Patricia McNeil of Notre Dame, will speak in the Flanner Hall pit at 4 p.m. 
Prof. O'Leary, of the Economics 
department, me~tioned th~ possibility of holdmg no-eredtt faculty-student seminars on books relating to non-violence. He a~so spoke of workingthrotW:h the ofhce of the South Bend Human Relations Commission in an at­tempt to ease racial tensions at South Bend's Washington High School. 
Prof. Dolan expressed optimism concering the future of the Non­Violence program and hopes that a full time director can be appointed by early next year. He stated, "I believe the program will continue because there are enough people interested in keeping it alive. It would be unfortunate if the program dies and does not con­tinue." 
Dolan enccourages all persons interested in preserving the Non­Violence program to attend the discussions next Wednesday in Flanner Hall. 

Dolan and O'Leary: "to keep the issues of peace and non-violence alive and in the forefront." 

Sadat seeks Arab-Soviet dialogue 
by Henry Tanner 

(c) 1972 New York Times 
Cairo. Sept. 28--President Anwar El-Sadat today scornfully rejected the notion of an interim agreement of open the Suez Canal that was revived hy Secretary of State William P. Rogers at the United Nations Monday. 
"Mr. Rogers is a man who is not living in this age," the President said according to the simultaneous translation of his speech broadcast by Hadio C'airo. 
He called for the formation of Palestinian Government in Exile as an 
answer to Israel's attacks on Lebanon and promised Egyptian help if the Palestinians embarked on such a course. It was believed the first time that a leading Arab statesman had formally made such a proposal. 
Sadat revealed that he has sought to resume the dialogue with the Soviet Union by sending a personal letter to Leonid I. Brezhnev, the Soviet Party Leader, last month. He described the letter as "quite friendly and cordial in spirit" and added that he was waiting for an an­
swer. 
The President's remarks on foreign policy came near the end of a long speech dedicated to the memory of the late President Gamal Abdel Nasser who died two years ago today. Sadat and other leading govern­
ment figures were speaking to the leadership of the Arab Socialist Union, Egypt's only party, at the Unions's headquarters overlooking the Nile in 
downtown Cairo. The ceremony was televised. Sadat said that Egyptian relations with Britian were "going from good to better" and _that he had received a message from Prime Minister 
For The Best 

Rings For Your Fingers And Bells For Your Toes see 
FRANCE MARIANE'S JOAILLERIE BOUTIQUE= 
2309 EDISON at Thieves' Market Sat., Sun. 10-6 
Main Church Sunday Masses 
5:15 p.m. Sat. Fr. .Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30 a.m. Sun. Fr. J. Bernard Clat•k, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Frank Quinn 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
"Evening Prayer" vespers at 4:30p.m. Sunday Confessions are heard before weekday masses and from 7:00 to 7:30 
p.m. Mon. thru Sat. in Sacred Heart. 
Observer Chess Tournament 
Na~ne 

Address,___________________ Phone____________________ 
Playing for prize~---yes-..no 
USFC Member.___.yes-noRating____________ 


October 2-8 
No faculty, w-o.men 

in chess competition 
Registration for the Observer Chess Clubchess tournament swelled yesterday, but con­spicuously absent were sign-ups of faculty members and women from Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
Registration will continue all afternoon until 5:00 at the news desk in the Observer office. There is a $1.00 fee for all contestants who wish to play for the cash prize and trophy award. 
Second and third place finishers will receive copies of the Fischer­Spasky book donated by Pandora's Books. 
The contest is tentatively scheduled to be played in LaFortune Studetn Center. 
•

Monday night's opening round will be played in the Rathskellar. Tuesday through Friday's rounds will be in the Fiesta Lounge on the third floor of L<~Fortune. The closing rounds on Saturday and Sunday will be back in the Rathskellar. 
Monday's Observe•· will carry the pairings for Monday night's play. Contestants should check the Obsei'\'H' daily for each night's pairings. 
The final day for registration is Sunday afternoon from 1:00 to 5:00. 
YVP to organize plans 
by Rob Schott 
Observe•· Staff Reporter 

Last evening in an address before the Young Voters for the President. Andy Nickle, County chairman of the Reelect the President Campaign, called upon all supporters of President Nixon to "make their presence known." 
Stating that the initial results of 
Edward Heath in the wake of the visit to London by his foreign minister 
Mohammed H. El Zayyat. 

Egypt was continuing its political action in Europe and the Arab world, 
the President said adding that he hoped he would soon be able to give a 
report on this effort to the party. . 
The United States clearly was the villain in Sadat's statement, in ad­
dition to Israel. 

Sadat repeatedly charged that the American veto in the Security Council 
had been the green light for Israel's attack on Lebanon and what he 
termed the murder of many innocent women and children there in the 
course of these operations. 

"There will be no partial settlement and no direct negotiation," he said 
about Rogers' United Nations Speech. This Egyptian position had been 
made clear to Rogers a year ago, he said in an alusion to Egyptian 
American talks that broke down largely because ..Egypt felt she could 
overall settlement including full Israeli withdrawal. Israel has con­sistently stated that she will seek to hold on to substantial parts of the 
Arab territory conquered in the June war of 1967, 
Referring to his surprising decision last July to end the Soviet military 
presence in Egypt, Sadat said: "I was faced with the fact that we were 
standing on quicksand." 

.--------~-------------------~ 
THE GUESS WHO 
plus WHITE TRASH 

October 14 
at 8:30 


in the A.C.C. 
all chair seats -$5.5 bleachers -$3.00 
Tickets on sale at the ACC ticket office (9·5) 
and the Student Union office (4-5) 
Tickets for GUESS WHO will also be on·sale 
during the Chicago concert. 
•••presented by the Student Union••• 
9 

their recent poll indicate a decidedly upward swing in Hepublican support on campus, Chairman Nickles, together with the various Nixon orientated organizations, has formulated definite plans in order to ef­fectively challenge the "McGovern dominance of campus politics." 
At present the Republicans consider St. Joseph a key county in the Indiana political scene; thus, an all-out endeavor to mobilize the critically important campus vote will be forthcoming within the next week. When queried as to the greatest obstacle facing the campaign, Chairman Nicles said, "It's the apathy the students in both camps have toward this election, for despite all the com­plaints coming from the univer­sity, major political interest seems to be subverted." 
Concluding the meeting was a 
panel discussion involving Bill 
Wilson and Andy Nicles attacking 
the pro-McGovern position of Tom 
McKenna and Chuck Nau, the co­
cha-irman of the Hoosier Citizens 
for McGovern. 



PITTSBURGH"' 
PAINTS Notre Dame Student Discount 
-30% off Latex Paint .. 15% off unpainted furniture 
333 S. Michigan 289-2439 
Friday, September 29, 1972
the observer

10 
There's no dirty pool in McGirr's 
((•l 1!172 Nl'w York Times 
New York --By 2 o'clock on recent Tuesday a!ternoon the dank subterranian hall that is McGirr's Billiard Academy was filling with men, who broke into groups and talked excitedly about the imminent head-to-head three­cushion billiard confrontation between Jimmy <the Cat) Cattrano and Larry <Boston Shorty) Johnson. 
In all about a hundred men had filed down the steps of the pool hall at 709 8th Ave. and bought $2 tickets for the first four matches between the two players, who in pool hall circles are generally believed to be the best three­cushion players in the United States, or at least on the East Coast, or certainly in the Nor­theast. The assessments varied with the commentators. 
Once inside the room, the fans clustered in sub groups, each of which had its distinctive costumes. 
There were, for example, the hats. 
These were men, mostly in their 
60's. They all wore straw fedoras, 
or porkpies, and seemed to be 
Seven in the corner

retired. The hats liked Boston 
Shorty. who at 43 had been around 
popular. The game is played with three another ball and then have his ball was missing narrowly, with the
awhile. 
"A player oan play three-cushion balls on a table measuring 5 by 10 carom off three rails or cushions ball just passing that third elusive 
"He's good with the pressure," 
all his life and never have the same feet. The idea, roughly, is for for and then strike the third ball. It target.
said one of the hats. 
shot twice," Gordon said. the player to hit his ball into takes a geometric imagination, a But then with the score 11 to 4 in
A second large group was made 
sure stroke, and if the money Shorty's favor, Cattrano, who had
up of young men in their early 20's, 
riding on the game is ·heavy·, sure been talking to himself, found his
many of whom wore high-heel 
nerves. stroke.
shoes. ; .ike the hats they were 
At 3:30 Cattrano came in. He is a He made one shot in which the
busily seeking to drum up bets, but 
heavyset man who learned to play ball swung around five cushions.
unlike them, the shoes flashed 
in his father's billiard parlor in Then another, and another. Shorty
their money more openly, peeling 
Flushing, N.Y. sat and smoked, looking impassive 
bills off their rolls. Mostly, the 
Now as to finances. Fordon said as his lead dwindled. After each
shoes liked "the Cat," pointing out 
that he had put up a prize of $500 billiard that Cattrano made the
that he was "the coming cham­
for the winner of the 240-point crowd clapped in a show of non­
pion," and that he had not even lost 
match that was broken into 60-partisan sportsmanship. 
a single game in his last eight 
point blocs. Gordon allowed as The player from Flushing made 
tournaments. 
there might be more money in­11 points before he missed. This
Johnson entered the hall alone. 
volved somewhere. kind of run is considered very
He wore a porkpi hat and a wind­
Finally, at 4 P.M. the game good. The highest ever made at
breaker. He is five feet two inches 
began. The audience took seats McGirr's has been 18. The streak
tall and has been making his living 
around the table and now talked turned the game around and
with a cue stick for 29 years. His 
only in whispers. although Shorty fought back with
home base is Boston, but he travels 
In the early part of the game applause-gaining shots of his own 
a lot. 
Shorty was winning. We would he could not recover his ad­
Shorty differs form many pool 
make two or three billiards or vantage. After a game that took
hustlers in that he is equally adept 
points before missing. Cattrano two hours he had lost 60 to 53.
at billiards as he is at pocket pool. 
"There's not much money in billiards," he said. 
Three-cushion billiards, he 
explained, is to pool as chess is to 
checkers. 
Stan Gordon, who owns McGirr's and booked the match, also compared the game to chess and said he hoped it would become 
Old coffeehouse 
Jimmy (The Cat) Cattrano takes aim during the three-cushion billiard match with Larry (Boston Shorty) Johnson.
to become new 

SMC art gallery 
Moreau Art Gallery at Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, will move to new, enlarged quarters October 1, 1972. 
The area, formerly the Saint Mary's coffeehouse, is located immediately under O"Laughlin Auditorium, and will include an outdoor Sculpture Garden and additional rooms for special 
A cram course purposes. One such room will be 
in economy. A snap for fun!
the Alumnae Room, housing items from the College's permanent 
collection. 
RIB-EYE STEAK • BAKED POTATO 
-
The Gallery will operate as a 

OSSEO SALAD • HOT BUTTERED 
ROL
public museum, with monthly exhibits, free of charge. In the future. a membership program will be initiated. 
The Gallery will be open Tuesday through Friday from I: 00 
p.m. to 9:00p.m.; Saturday from 
1:00 p.m. to 5:00p.m.; and will be closed Mondays. 









PDNDBRD

The new Gallery will open with a former Saint Mary's College 
STEAK H

faculty member's exhibit. Dr. 

ONCE A YEAR BICYCLE SALE 
full display
Savings up to 15% 
$42-$410
3 SPEED --5 SPEED 10 SPEED·-TANDEM 
Bikes available for immediate delivery 
BICYCLE CENTER 
OPEN MONDAY 'TIL 1:30 PM 

Phone 287-1623 Daily~; 30 'Iii 5:30 1437 Portage Ave. 

RICK DUNFY IS BACK 
rom Europe and still drinking beer 
Join him in his Happy Hour 4-6 p.m. 15¢ BEER OPEN Fri. 4 p.m.-2 a.m. 
SATURDAY PRE-GAME SPECIAL 
2 Bloody Mary's for only $1.00 
SATURDAY NITE A Chicago concert ticket or stub 
gives a '12 priced mixed drink 
Susan Yang Kiang: Paintings and 
52627 U.S. 31 N.
Calligraphy, October 1 through 26, SATURDAY OPEN 10 AM TILL GAME TIME 1972. and 
A reception honoring Dr. Kiang After game till 2 am and the opening of the new Gallery Town & Country Shopping Ctr. will be held October 1, 1:00 p.m. to 
Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. Dally. Fri. and Sat. to 10 P.M. The Alumni Club
3:00p.m. 
by Ronald Sarro lcl 1!172 Washington Star News 
Washington, Sept. 28-Sen. George S. McGovern's voter registration drive is channeling nearly all its meager finances into efforts in black communities. 
Campaign officials report encouraging results among blacks in Baltimore, Philadelphia, Detroit and, to a lesser degree, New York City. 
Anne Wexler, director of the drive, predicted yesterday that the effort will result in "more black n•gistrations than ever before in the history of Anwrican politics." 
Mrs. Wexler gave a status report on the drive vesterday. announcing that the McGovern forces are more than halfway toward achieving a goal of 8 million 
l('W Democratic voters for the 1972 election. 
ThP Democrats are trying to match the 7 or 8 million 
H'W voters signed up during John F. Kennedy's 1960 
·ampaign against Richard Nixon. But, so far, money 
·or such an effort has been scarce. 
Mrs. WPxler said that the registration organization 
ws spent only $700,000 since starting its operations on 
ug. 15. and continues to live a hand-to-mouth financial 

ife as funds trickle in. 
"Most of our money· has gone into black communities 
irectly ,"Mrs. Wexler said. It is in these communities 
NhPre ·McGovern enjoys a 4-llead over the President, 
1ccording to the polls, and where only about half of 14 
nillion l'ligible citizens were registered as of last 
·pring. McGovern aides could give no breakdown of 
Friday, September 29, 1972 the observer 1 1 
McGovern's voter drive hits black neighborhoods 
by Robert Walters ((') l!li2 Washington Star News 
Washington. Sept. 28-President Nixon's voter identification program is going to have an im­pact on political campaigns for the next 10 years, political consultant Ed Nichols suggests. 
"Television has been the story since 1960. But this year it's dif­ferent--the action has shifted to the voter-identification area." 
Nichols, who in the mid-1960's was the first director of Computer Services for the Republican National Committee, now heads a consulting firm in Kensington, Md., which provides Nixon's campaign organization with data processing expertise for its massive canvass of voters from 
Stepan pep rally tonight at 7:00 
The exuberance and excitement of a Notre Dame home football weekend will be unleashed at 7:00 
p.m. tonight at Stepan Center, as the Pep Rally Committee kicks off the 1972 home football season. 
The band will strike up the victory march shortly after 6:45 
p.m .. marching across campus to Stepan Center escorted by the Meat Squad. Fanning the flames of spirit ignited by the band, Head Coach Ara Parseghian and the Irish co-captains, Greg Marx and John Dampeer, will then reveal to the throng why Notre Dame will vanquish the Boilermakers from Lafayette tomorrow. 
The Pep Rally committee's future plans include pep rallies at Stepan Center for the Missouri and Miami contests. The site of the Pittsburgh rally is as yet un­decided. 
The committee also hopes to engage Paul Hornung, "The Golden Boy,'' as a possible speaker at a later event. 
~ to coast. 
It the Presidential election should be close, this effort to identify and contact Nixon's potential supporters could make the difference. The canvass, if 
successful, might add as much as 5 per cent to his vote total, experts believe. 
Political technicians in both parties continue to search for the most effective means of com­municating with the electorate, but the Nixon canvass could lead to a major shift away from television as the mass medium used to deliver the political message of Presidential candidates. 
The unprecedented dimensions of the GOP voter contact program are generally unknown by either the public or by the President's Democratic rival, George S. McGovern. 
A key reason is that a canvassing program involves contact with only one voter at a time, as con­trated with radio, television, newspapers and magazines where the scope of an advertising cam­paign is open to public inspection. 
One indication of the 
Republicans' shift from television 
to canvassing is a report that Clark 
MacGregor, the President's 
campaign manager, last month cut 
about $3.5 million from the Re­
election Committee's advertising 
budget-most the cut was ear­
marked for television com­
mercials--to provide more money 
for the voter identification 
program. 
The television budget is now 
relatively modest, about the size of 
McGovern's, or perhaps slightly 
larger. 
"For an incumbent President, 
you really don't need the exposure 
of paid television," says one high­
ranking Nixon campaign aide. He 
explained that television com­
mercials are principally useful in 
providing politicians with two 
things Nixon already has: name 
and recognition and identifiable 
positions on major issues. 

HOUISr 
MOM • lUES • 1MUl • fll 
9 AM 5r30 PM WID -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON COMPLm! $PI!ICI'Aell

RoGERS 
SEIYICE ALL EU DI.'S PIESCRIPTIONS H0N01K

Optical 
C../! 
289-7109
110011!11 A'IWIU • OWNB 

exactly how many new black voters among the 4 million new registrations cited by Mrs. Wexler. 
"Registration in Maryland is especially heavy in Baltimore country and it's running 2-1 Democratic," Mrs. Wexler said. She said that since May, more than 1\,000 people have registered, including 5,104 Democrats and 2,511 Republicans. Two-thirds have registered since the drive started. 
However, McGovern supporters in the Washington suburb of Montgomery Country, Md.,--where 60 per­cent of the country voters are registered Democrats-­are disturbed by a dip in party registrations. Officials report new Democratic registrations have stayed below 50 percent during August and September. 
However, the McGovern camp drew some en­couragement from the fact that during the first two days of this week, Democratic registrations were on the upswing. Of 965 voters who registered, 56 percent were Democrats, 30 per cent Republicans and 14 per cent independents. 

CLASSIFIED ADS
McGovern voter registration officials report that in another Washington suburb, Prince Georges County, 
Md .. also heavily Democratic, the party continues to enjoy a 2-1 edge over Republican registratiQns. 
FOR SALE

According to their count, of 23,300 new voters who have registered in Prince Georges 12,000 are 
For Sale: Two senior football
Democrats and 6,000 are Republicans. 
tickets. Call Mark or George 289­
5940

Mrs. Wexler said that, over-all, "We've had really 
outstanding success in most areas, especially in the 
Mich. State Bus Trip and Ticket
larger states. In Northern California we've added over 
for Sale Kevin 3207 
a 250,000 new Democrats to th-:-rolls at the rate of between 12,000 and 15,000 per week." 
For Sale: 4 adjacent Pitt Tix Gen Admission Call 3439 
1969 Cortina G.T. Low mileage 
qood condition. Call Elkhart 264· 
4..16

GOP turns frozn TV to canvass 
Wanted; 2 Missouri general ad­nlission tickets. Will pay your price. Maria 1715 or 5166 
Need Missouri Tix: 2 student, 2 qeneral admission. Tim 1678 
Friend needs ride to Conn-NYC after Purdue game. If your friends, parents are driving out this weekend, call 3508 
Need ride to MSU Fri. Oct. 6 help on qas. call Ken at 6772 
NPed two roomales: Furnished 2 bedroom apt. $60 each a month c illI Tom or Pete 233-4202 
w,,nted; 2 Purdue tickets, will pay well, call Bill at 1047 
Need 3 Purdue tickets call Fred 3168 
Wanted; 10 Speed girl's bike. Will pay $90-95 CASH!! Call 4959 
Need 4 G.A. Tix to TCU game. Mike 7883 
NOTICES 

Nixon has a "secret" plan to end the war. He is going to vote tor McGovern 
Bored over Christmas? Try Europe an unbelievable ! 190 round trip. Call Clark 283-8810 for details 
Student Drug Information Center has been relocated. Come to room. 219 in the Iibrary tor any drug counseling or info. Mon-Fri, 7 9 PM Or call 232..8667 
Morrissey Loan Fund open . Borrow up to $150. 11:15-12:15 Monday thru Friday Lafortune Basement 
Dr. STRANGELOVE is coming Fri. at 9& 11 PM Sun. at 7&9 PM in the Engineering Auditorium 
Tl1ose who have had a chance for lour years and could not produce peace, shc;lUid not be given another chance... Richard Nixon, October 9, 1968 Santa Monica, California 
Help celebrate Purdue's funeral Friday night Party at the WAKE ~lh floor Morrissey after the Pep 
Raltake shorthand 6-12 hours perTo week. Apply OBSERVER salery negoitableLife!  ly Da ncin' Drinkin' Lovin' PERSONELS  
ToNeed student ticket for Purdue  F &S  Enterprizes: You can  
light our fire anytime Pervs LTD. ,game, Call 7879 or 7978  
To Terrier, (T .T .) Happiness, iss 
Need ride for 3 to Grand Rapids, having you hPre! A whole bunch! 
Michigan on Oct. 6 Call Betsy 6925 Love, Sencillo Need musicians with equipment Welcome to ND Marsh, BBri, Yel.Call Jim 1520 nug, Lou  
Need ride East (1-80 or Pa. Tpk.) Happy St.Oct. 7 or B. Sunday preferred. HaDestination Phila. Call 6865 lovallWanted: Chest of Drawers Call 212 nneche you, occasi Patrick's Day, Happy auh, Congratulations, I Yes we offer candles tor ons, Call Kevin or Mike, St. 
John 272-2977 JoeHall  7, 2103 , 7747 Room 228, 201  ..  
Please! Need one general ad­ LOST 
mission Pittsburgh Ticket Call 5312 Lost·  Br own suede button down  
jacTo exchange-2 Purdue Gen. Ad. Field tickets tor any other two tix LosPat 6733 case_  ket. at: 3 cRe sk for Jay 8713 ar keys in brown leather ward. call Dan 1436  
Badly need 4 Missouri Tickets. StoBill 233-9032 with Boy'sNeed ride to Iowa-West on SO­Steele 4809Oct. 5 Ca II 4625 or 4449 LosWanted: Part-time legal Keesecretaries to assist small law thefirm. General Practice. Inquire 920 South Bend Avenue, 234-3216 RidKen 8810  len, 10 blacbit: All p the rest!! ers to  speed ICITOH yellow k handle bars and seat ke. REWARD Call P. identification, blue case. I.D. card. Please return Nancy 232-0882 Kent. Ohio Fri. Sept 29.  
Need Purdue tickets. General Admission or student. Call Frank For8825 or Ed 6463 helTomNeed 2-5 TCU General admission tickets. Call Tom 1387 Need sec4679  Sale: mets 232­2 tion is  Suzuki 500 with 2 $600 or best offer call 0659 tickets to Concert any 0. K. Please call Jan at  r  

Not mentioned by the President's political strategists is the fear that Nixon, who has requested more free network time than any of his predecessors during his first term in office, could be in danger of "overex­posure" during the campaign. 
THE ROMA 
Food --Liquor Pizza --Dancing 
your host 
Frank Anastasio  
FOR  DELIVERIES  OR  
CARRY OUT  PHONE  234­ 

3258 
219 N. MICHIGAN AVE. Downtown South Bend 

For Sale 1972 60 cc Yamaha Excellent condition $225 call Kirk (Elkhart) 2931901 After 5 
Two Michigan State tickets for sale, or trade for Purdue tickets Norm 1502 
Cheaper than leasing! New 
Westinghouse  compact  
refrigerators  4.4  cubic  ft.  
capacity,  factory  warranty,  

WYNNE's REFRIGERATION CO. 234-0578 
Two tickets for sale to Chicago Concert section 15. Interested persons Call Tom 233-4202 
1966 Alta-Romeo GSGT fresh engine-never raced. new with radials·drive to beleive $2,000 John 6927 
Getting cold feet when you awake? New and lower prices on carpet. Shags and Lowloops in the rainbows colors. Call Kevin or Mike, 2127, 2103 7747 
For Sale: Gibson Electric Guitar Call 283·1620 
FOR RENT 

Rooms for Football weekends close to Notre Dame !5 per nile Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004 
Available: 2 motel rooms in South Bend motel for night of Oct. 13 (Pitt weekend). Call John 6810 
Furnished house close to N. D. suitable for 4 students available Oct 15th phone 272-1159 
WANTED 

Wanted: secretary, must type and 

Friday, September 29, 1972
12 
the observer 




Irish-Boilermakers renew rivalr 
Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 
On paper, Purdue has a great football team. Gary Danielson, the Rig Ten's leading passer, Otis Armstrong, less than 500 yards away from becoming the Boiler­makers' all-time leading rusher and Rick Sayers, who caught 39 passes last year, head a potent offensive unit. 
Pre-season All-American tackle, giant-sized Dave Butz (6'7, 279) anchors a veteran defensive unit, But the Boilermakers can't seem to win a game. 
Plagued by costly fumbles, Purdue was stunned by Bowling (;rt'en. 17-14, in the first game of lhl' season. Last Saturday, the Boilt'rmakers watched a 21-0 lead slip away into a 22-21 defeat at the hands of Washington. 
"WP deserve better than we've
• het>n getting," said disheartened lwad coach Bob DeMoss after watching his Boilers lose to the lluskies last weekend. 
I>Pspite Purdue's poor start, Notr<' Dame coach Ara Parseghian is aware of the talent on the Boilt'rmaker squad and is con­t'Prned that DeMoss might have 

otis .\rmstrong. only a few hundred yards shy of becoming Purdue's all­
• timt• rushing leadt>r. will present a threat to Notre Dame's young defense Sa hn·da y <l ftprnoon. 

The Irish Eye 

Last week's predictions--12 of 15 correct, including Georgia Tech's victory over Michigan State--were the most successf~l of the year ~nd, ~s the college football season gets into full swing, the Insh Eye peers mto Its erystal ball for the fourth time with hopes of continued imJ?rovement. . 
There are numerous top flight games on the colleg1ate scene this WPPkend. including intersectional battles between Stanford and .w~st Virginia. North Carolina and Ohio State and Southern _Cal ~nd Illmms, dassic games,like Princeton versus Rutgers, and such nvalnes as Notre Dame-Purdue. Kentucky-Indiana and Texas-Texas Tech. 
The Irish play their home opener against Purdue Saturday and the Pxperts list Notre Dame as two-touchdown favorites. Let's hope it's that ('asy. 
This is the way Saturday's results will be. Maybe. Notre Dame over Purdue---This is a big game for both clubs. It won't 
be f'asy. but the Irish can get by the revenge-minded Boilermakers. Tt•nnessee over Auburn---The Vols have a grudge to settle. Pitt over Northwestern ---The Wildcats have yet to score in '72 and, 
with Varty injured. their defense is in need of help. Princeton over Rutgers---These two teams started it all back in 1869. I,ook for the Tigers to get the better of the action in 1972. 
LSU over Wisconsin---Rufus Ferguson will find it tough to run against perennially potent Off-Campus, 
the Bavou Bengals.
Mich-igan over Tulane ---The Wolverines gained respect with last 
week's thumping of UCLA. 
Southern Cal over Michigan State ---The Trojans will pick up their 
second victory over a Big Ten team in as many weeks. 
UCLA over Oregon ---The Bruins should bounce back in this Pacific 
Eight Conference game. 
Ohio State over North Carolina---The best of the Big Ten clashes with 
the class of the ACC. It's in Columbus, so the edge goes to the Buckeyes. 
Indiana over Kentucky---The Hoosiers hope to get back on the win trail 
with a win over Kentucky's Wildcats. 
Texas A & Mover Army---At least the Cadets won't lose 77-7. 
Texas over Texas Tech --The eyes of Texas will be watching the 
'Horns hook the Raiders. 
Stanford over West Virginia -Stanford looms the best in this battle of 
sectional powers.
Washington over Illinois-Without Mike Wells, the Illini can't compete 
with Sonny Sixkiller's ball club. 
Upset! of the week: 
Navy over Boston College --The Middies are primed to shoot down the 
Eagles.
., 
Last week: 12 of 15 .800. Season Pet. : 34 of 45 ·755 
them primed for a top effort 
tomorrow afternoon against the 
Irish. 
"They're a good football team," 
Parseghian warns. "They could 
just as well be 2-0 as 0-2. They're 
big and strong but they've had a lot 
of bad breaks." 
"Purdue will be coming in hopped up about winning," Par­seghian continued. "They're dangerous, there's no question 
a bout that." 
The Boilermakers figure to present Notre Dame's young defense with one of its toughest challenges this fall. Now that DeMoss has installed the Wish­bone-T offense, Danielson has become a running threat, as well as a dangerous passer. He rushed for over 200 yards last week against Washington. 
Armstrong, almost sure to become the Boilers' premier rusher. can catch passes, too. The pre-season All-America choice grabbed 30 passes his first two years at Purdue, including a TD catch against the Irish last season in West Lafayette. 
Joining Armstrong and Danielson in the Boilers' backfield who will take on last year's sur­
prise playoff combatant, Pangborn-Fisher, in a 2 p.m.battle. 
Morrissey, again led by star quarterback Kirk Miller, looks to be the favorite in League !Two, and holds the edge over St. Joseph in their 3 p.m. game. Lyons takes on Farley in an even contest, while zahm and Cavanaugh are idle. 
Hard-running halfback Joe Reams and a stubborn defense should again provide the bulk of the Keenan attack, which rates as tops in League Three. Defending
champs in their division, Keenan takes the week off while their remaining divisional counterparts 
begin play. Grace battles Stanford at 3 p.m. and the Breen-Phillips-Flanner contest will follow at 4 . 
is Bill Pedhoretzky, a 210-pound 
fullback who scored twice against 
Washington. 
With eight starters back from a 
year ago, Purdue's defense is 
almost as fearsome as its offensive 
counterparts. The Boilermakers' 
massive front five is certainly 
tough enough to give opposing 
coaches gray hairs. 
Besides Butz, end Steve 
Baumgartner (6'7, 239), tackle 
Bronco Keser (6'3, 249) and middle 
guard Greg Bingham (6'2, 222) are · top notch ballplayers. 
Purdue won't be at full strength 
tomorrow, however. Talented 
halfback Darryl Stingley is still 
sidelined with an ankle injury and 
defensive standout Rick 
Schavietello, a linebacker who 
made 21 tackles against the Irish a 
year ago, is out with a bad knee. 
Offensive tackles Brent Myers and 
Mike Albright are also slated to sit 
out tomorrow's game, as is 
defensive back Arnold Carter. 
Despite their absence, DeMoss 
plans to have the Boilermakers 
more than ready for the Irish. 
"We'll be there trying to make 
our own breaks by playing good, 
sound. fundamental football," 
f)(•Moss said. "We showed our 
wishbone potential in the first half 
last week." 
Notre Dame displayed its 
potential last weekend too, rom­
ping by Northwestern 37-0 with an 
impressive display of offensive 
power and a surprisingly tough 
defense. 
"Both the offense and defense 
performed above expectations," 
Parseghian said after Saturday's 
opening-game romp. "Our offense 
showed great consistency and the 
defense, which we had bee11 a bit 
apprehensive about, surprised us 
with a shutout." 
The Irish escaped the Nor­thwestern game without any major injuries. although it's doubtful whether running back Greg Hill will see action tomorrow because of a pulled muscle. 
Purdue and the Irish have met 43 times in a series which dates back to lll91i. Notre Dame holds the edge in the series, winning 25, losing 16 and tying two. 
The two teams have played vearly since 1946, with the Irish "·inni'ng 14 times since then and Purdue. 12. 
Kickoff tomorrow in Notre Dame Stadium will be at 1:30 p.m. 
14 ready for IH openers 
by Stan llrankar 
Fourteen teams take the field 
Sunday afternoon as the 1972 In­
terhall football season gets under 
way. All campus gridiron battles 
will occur on the auxiliary fields 
behind the ACC. 
Dillon's Big Red, two-time 
defending champion, will be in search of their 13th victory in their last 14 games when they take on 'neighboring Alumni in the 1 p.m. 
lidlifter. 
Holy Cross, returning to IH 
action after a year's layoff, is 
expected to field a good-sized 
team. The Cross opens its season 
against Dr. Francis Carberry's 
Sorin team. The only other League 
one clubs in action will be 

UPI lineman of the week 

Irish lint'backer .Jim O'Malley was selected as "Lineman of the Week" by tlw l'. P. I. for his play against Northwestern last weekend. He was in on t:: tacklt's and intercepted a pass against the 'Cats. 

Need money? 
sell 


Irish Sports Weekly 
Saturday morning 
Generous commission Apply at The Observer office today between 3:30 and 5:30pm 




