On the Inside InPirg funding approved...Pg. 8 
Vol. V_1_ No._!Q!)__ 
~~------------~ 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community_ Wednesday, March 15, 1972 



A jury was seated for the murder, kidnaping and criminal con­spiracy trial of Angela Davis. Nine days of questioning of prospective jurors ended abruptly yesterday -when Ms. Davis rose in the courtroom and announced that she was ready to proceed. 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Thirty-one faculty members released a statement entitled "The future at Notre Dame" yesterday. 
The original statement was mailed to Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, university president. Fifteen administrators, faculty members and representatives of the media received copies of the document. 
The complete text of the letter is printed in Viewpoint--faculty on page five. 
Twenty-nine of the signing faculty members are tenured professors who have reached the rank of associate or full professor. 
The cover letter accompanying the statement asked for postponement of news and editorial coverage until the letter is widely read. 
"The sponsors hope that you would publish in The Observer the complete and exact text, without accompanying editorial comment or news coverage in the same issue. They hope you would be willing to reserve comment and interpretation for subsequent issues," the letter read. 
1111 II IIII II II II II11111!1111 II II II Ill Ill II II II II Ill II IIII IIII IIII IIII IIII II IIIIIIIIIII UllllllllllllII11111111111111 
Faculty comment on appointment of Henry to post 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 
Five St. Mary's faculty members and one ad­ministrator commented yesterday on the recent selection of Dr. Edward Henry as SMC president, and speculated upon the direction the college could be expected to take in the future. 
Dr. William A. Hickey, biology department chairman, called the move "perhaps the most significant in St. Mary's history." 
"I worked with Dr. Henry on a task force to study St. Mary's and prepare her for the event of deunification;" he revealed, "and I feel that he is not only the most qualified administrator that the school has ever had, but one of the most qualified in the nation in the realm of small, liberal arts colleges." 
Hickey went on to say that probably one of the first things Henry will do is initiate an intensive study to determine St. Mary's strengths and weaknesses in all areas. and build on that. 
Although Henry will not officially assume office until July 1, Hickey feels that theoretically "he is really in charge now. SMC will begin at once to move in a positive direction." 
Hickey also cited Henry's enthusiasm and his committment to community government as positive factors for the future. 
"The time for change is here, we will have it," he concluded. 
Dr. Anthony Black, history department chair­man, agreed that Henry was "the most impressive candidate we had." 
"Perso~ally, I am quite impressed by the man," Black sa1d. "He not only feels that St. Mary's is already one of the best Catholic colleges in the 
(continued on page 3) 

by Martin Waldron 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Miami-Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama scored a dramatic victory in the Florida Presidential Primary Tuesday, sweeping at least 75 and perhaps all 81 of the state's delegates to the national Democratic Convention. 
Riding the issue of school busing and promising to tax the rich and 
·crack down on crime, Wallace finished far ahead of 10 other Democrats in the contest. Sen Hubert Humphrey of Min­nesota, who ran here to revive his national political fortunes, finished second. Sen. Henry Jackson of Washington, ran third, firmly ahead of Sen. Edmund Muskie of Main, who had entered the Florida contest with strong support from party_ officials. 
l'he vote totals with 97 percent of the 2,841 precincts reporting were: 
Wallace -41 per cent 499,222 Humphrey -19 per cent 224,181 Jackson -13 per cent 162,739 Muskie -9 per cent 107,008 Lindsay --7 per cent 78,436 McGovern -6 per cent 73,909 Chisholm -4 per cent 42,746 McCarthy --o per cent 5,816 Mills -o per cent 4,546 Hartke -o per cent 3,442 Yorty -o per cent 2,534 
Muskie's poor showing was a major setback, even more damaging than last week's weak showing in New Hampshire, for the man deemed the "front runner" for more than a year. His stumble here left the Democratic tracks wide open with four months to go before the party's nominating convention in Miami Beach. 
In the Republican Primary, President Nixon easily won Florida's 30 delegates to the GOP Convention. The President did not campaign in the state but yielded only 9 percent of the vote to Rep. John Ashbrook of Ohio and 4 percent to Rep. Paul McCloskey of California, who withdrew his challenge before the voting began. 
Wallace, who spent election day sunning himself atop an Orlando Hotel, smoking cigars and reading old copies of National Geographic Magazine, said he was surprised at the margin of his victory. He said none of the other candidates "can take any comfort from being second or third." 
However, Humphrey's staff took considerable comfort from his second-place finish. 
A happy Humphrey said at his headquarters that "my campaign is off and its off to a good start. I think this gives us a great boost." 
A special New York Times cross section survey conducted by Daniel Yankelovitch, Inc., asked 400 voters to explain their ballots as they emerged from the polls. The survey found that the economy was an issue equal to that of school busing. 
Wallace. Humphrey and Jackson had all em­phasized economic issues as well as the busing controversy. 
Three of every five Wallace voters in the survey thought the Alabama Governor could defeat Nixon this fall. but only one in then said-they voted for him for this reason. 
They said they thought it was more important to vote their views than to try to choose a winner. The Wallace voters told interviewers they considered the busing issue the most important, followed by crime. As a group, they were so zealous that more than one-third did not even have a second choice in the promary. About one-third named Jackson as their second choice. 
Humphrey's supporters termed him "ex­perienced", one-third of them said he could best unify the country and that he understands the problems of "common people." 
The most important issue to Humphrey voters was the economy, bufeven that was an issue to only one out of four. 
Three out of every four who voted for the former vice president though he could beat Nixon this fall. About one-third of them picked Muskie as their second choice among the candidates. 
About half of the Jackson supporters said they had voted on the bais of issues. By far, the most important issue to them was the economy. 
The Muskie supporters were unable to give in­terviewers a clear reason for their choice. Five out of six thought he could beat Nixon, but they did not identify Muskie with any major issue. 
They thought he was "experienced", could win the nomination, and could unify the country. 
Very few of those interviewed were Lindsay voters, but two out of three of those thought he could defeat Nixon. There was no clear second choice for the Lindsay backers. 
More than one-half of the supporters of Sen. George S. McGovern of South Dakota emphasized issues, above all the Vietnam war, with a economy a poor second. Two out of every three said he could beat Nixon. 
Over-all, the survey showed that none of the candidates succeeded in taking advantage of the strong feelings in the state about the economy. Florida has a 4 per cent unemployment rate and a much higher rate of underemployment--people with low-paying marginal or part-time jobs. 
Wallace described his showing in Florida as "an indication of things to come." He is entered in a number of other Democratic primaries around the country. 
His vote here closely parallelled what he got in Florida in 1968 when he ran for president on the American Independent Party ticket, but he showed stronger in Miami this year. 
..... 
, 
------------------------------~-------­
Wednesday, March 15, 1972
the observer
2 
-world briefs 
(c) New York Times 
Washington--Former Attorney General John N. Mitchell disclosed that he discussed the government's antitrust policies privately with Harold S. Geneen, the president of the International Telephone and Telegraph Corp., for about 35 minutes during a 1970 meeting, but he said he refused to talk about the government's three cases against I.T.T. Mitchell in­sisted that he was not personally involved in any way in the handling or settlement of the three suits. 
Reirut. Lebanon--King Hussein has reportedly proposed a plan for rejoining the Israei-held west bank with the east bank of Jordan in a federal system to be called the United Arab Kingdom instead of the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan. Informed sources said that the plan was submitted to the ambassadors of the United States, Britain, France and the Soviet Union yesterday. The Arab governments have also been in­formed. 
Washington--President Nixon will visit Canada on April13 for two days of talks on international and bilateral problems with Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau. The announcement came at a time of deep strains in Canadian-American relations. These have been caused largely by unresolved trade disagreements and Canadian concern that Washington may impose unilateral sanctions against Canadian goods. 
on campus today 
6:00-meeting, sailing club, discussion of freshman icebreaker regatta, 204 engineering 
7: 
30 -lecture, sociology series, library auditorium and lounge 

7: 
30 -lecture, dr. john schockly, socio-political conditions and liberation movements for chicanos, 


memorial library 
8: 
15 -concert, dorothy kane, harpsichoridst and walfrid kujala, flutist, o'shag art gallery 

8: 
15 -concert, smc glee club and university chorus, sacred heart church 



the people of our district. • select Education Committee, I Brademas' district includes St. have devoted special attention to Joseph County, Elkhart County, 
and most of LaPorte County. Priest dies 
"During my seven terms in Congress, Brademas noted. "I have worked programs to benefit in Minn. children, young people and older 
Fr. James P. Doll, C.S.C.,
citizens. I have supported professor of microbiology and measures to protect our en­former member of the Lobund vironment and to strengthen law staff, died March 13 in Hennepinenforcement. I have fought for County General Hospital, Min­full employment and expanding neapolis. He had been treated at business opportunities and the hospital since Christmas and against inflation and wasteful underwent surgery earlier this government spending." 
month. 

Brademas spent Friday 
·He is survived by three brothers: traveling around the Third George of Amery, Wis., Louis of 
District and filing for re-election LaGrange, Ill., and Eugene of in the three county seats of the 
Yakima, Washington.Third District <South Bend, Funeral serveces are pending at 
Elkhart. and LaPorte). 
Notre Dame. 

lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
The voter registration drive will continue this week. All students who wish to register should call Sheila Culligan at 4147 or Paul Hinderlong at 6893 before 4:00p.m. J<'riday. 
Wednesday through Friday registrars will be at the library from 1-4 p.m.; Wednesday night at the North Dining Hall; Thursday night at SMC dorms, and Wed­nesday and Thursday at ND 
dorms.. · lUWllUilliWlW11lllllliUIU1111llllllllllllliU 
Re-election sought 
In the heart

Bradem.as announces candidacy 
of downtown South Bend

Congressman John Brademus, The Congressman presently legislation that would provide 
for the past 13 years U.S. serves as Chairman of the Select improved educational op­Representative from Indiana's Subcommittee of Education, part portunities for the people of our Third district, announced his of the House Committee on country." GOOD FOOD AT M candidacy for renominatoin in Education and Labor. "My subcommittee," Brademas 
·Steaks ·Chops ·Chicken ·Sea Food 

the Democratic Primary of May Throughout his time in office, continued, "has also produced 
Quiet atmosphere -pleasant

2 and re-election in November in Brademas has received par­child development legislation and a press conference Friday in the ticular praise for his work in the is now working on vocational 
surroundings

office of South Bend Mayor Jerry education area. rehabilitation services for the Miller. The subcommittee he chairs is aging." 
Brademas, Majority Floor now reviewing bills he introduced Born in Mishawaka, Indiana, CLOSED Whip and member of the St. dealing with vocational Brademas is a resident of South MONDAYS Mary's College Board of Tr­rehabilitation andcomprehensive Bend, and a Navy veteran. He is sutees, said, "I am confident that services for the aging. a graduate of South Bend Central Daily & Sunday my experience and seniority of Brademas commentea that High School, Harvard University, 11 am till 9 pm over 13 years in Congress will ''As a member of the House and Oxford University, England, Saturday enable me to continue in Committee on Education and where he studied as a Rhodes 11 am till 10 pm representing the interests of all Labor and as Chairman of the Scholar. 





HELP WANTED 
NATIONAL PARKS, PRIVATE CAMPS, GUEST RANCHES, AND BEACH RESORTS. Need college students (guys & gals) for next sum­mer's season (1972). Applicants must apply early. For free informa­tion send self-addressed stamped envelope to Opportunity Research, Dept. SJO, Century Bldg., Polson, MT 59860. 

SOPHOMORES 
Meet your Maior Night 
DEPT. OF ECONOMICS{;.. 
,i .... 
.•~ "\i~ . 
Faculty & Students, will·be.;.on hand to explain the curri~c:ulum & answer your ques~ions · _... 
Thurs. March 16 Lib. Loun':ge 
:~.,,.:.\'I' . '' 'i·
* Principles of Econ is not a neces'sa·r-y prerequisite fo·; a rilajor 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ;except· vacations by the students of the University of Notre ·oame and St. 'fviary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. · 
. ··:·; ~> ' 
,.,__...,l..-...--·-.-.J·••• ....,..._..._____ ·------· ~ ..,_ -·-.. ··---··-"' -~ ---:----·. .....-_,. 

Wednesday, March 15, 1972 the observer 3 1 1 
,

Community opfiJ!listic over new SMC pres. 1 


(continued from page 1) 
country, but he has certainly indicated that he will constantly seek impovement on the excellent base we have." 
Black believes, as does Henry, that there is a place in today's world for a small liberal arts college, and looks forward to SMC's stabilization as such. 
"i\ Breath of Fresh Air" 

Dr. Peter Smith, assistant professor of mathematics, said his first reaction to Henry's ap­pointment was that he will bring "a breath of fresh air" to the community. 
"Dr. Henry's enthusiasm and optimism will go a long way towards picking up morale around 1ere," he remarked. 
Smith lauded Henry's proposals 
o make education at SMC "more elevant," and recommended 1ould-be transfers to re-evaluate 1e situation. 
"St. Mary's is a good, solid in­titution," Smith said, "but the ocial implications of non-merger 1ay prove undesirable." 
Two other faculty members, Dr. 
•aul Messbarger and Sr. Franzita Cane, both of the English depart­nent, took a more cautious ap­Jroach than other faculty mem­
bers surveyed. Department chairman Messbarger sees Henry's beggest job as "helping us rebuild con­fidence in ourselves and build up an intellectual community." This will be accomplished, he feels, through institution of new ideas and programs that Henry has called for. However, the faculty assembly chairman anticipates a "cautious" faculty reaction to innovation. "In many ways, that's a healthy view,'' Messbarger commented. "A slow, sensitive approach is perhaps necessary to avoid chaos." Messbarger emphasized that not only Henry's ideas but their process of implementation should be spotlighted. "You can't· separate substance and process," he declared. "All too often good ideas fall prey to in­discriminate processes." 
"A Great Instinct for Survival" 
Messbarger added that Henry seems to feel that "nothing is so sacred that it cannot be questioned when survival is at stake." 
"He has a great instinct for survival " he said "that's probably ~hy he was br~ught here­-to help St. Mary's survive." 

Sr. Franzita Kane echoed Messbarger's caution and refused to speculate, adopting a "wait and see" perspective. 
"Dr. Henry certainly seems to have taken a hard look at the major problems facing St. Mary's right now," she said, "he has also taken time to formulate some of his priorities and some long-range planning; so he must be praised for his courage in accepting the challenge of St. Mary's at an emergency point." She declined any predictions of the outcome as yet. 
Henry's Background Will Be Beneficial 
Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, vice president of student affairs, noted that the background and expertise Henry possesses will be highly beneficial to St. Mary's, and en­visions academic reforms tailored to the needs of today's women. 
"Today women graduates, whether married or not, will spend a great part of their lives working," Dr. Cannon stated. "Woman powP.r i!': nPP.rled--in in­
1



FRANKIE'S 
EVERYDAY DINNER 

SPECIALS 
-Ocean Perch $1.25 -1 0 oz. Rib-Eye Steak $1.50 -'12 Breasted Chicken $1.50 
Includes Tureen Soup, Salad, Bread, Butter And Coffee .Planning a Party? Frankie's has Special Rates for Student Parties! 
When do you drink malt liquor anyway? 
Anytime you feel like it. That is, if it's BUDWEISER Malt Liquor. BUDWEISER Malt Liquor is the first 100%-malt, malt liquor around (no other grains added). It's the first malt liquor that really is ... malt liquor. 
dustry, in politics, in business, in religion, and in the arts. A liberal arts education is perhaps the best foundation and preparation a woman can receive for the many opportunities available to her," she said, but added that other options, such as professional skills, should not be ruled out entirely in the education of the total woman. 
Dr. Cannon shares Henry's hopes for St. Mary's as a small, yet viable, institution. 
"A smaller institution is more flexible, and there is more room for innovation," she said. "Larger universities tend to be too research-oriented and· bureaucratic." 
The former Marquette ad­ministrator praised Henry's ef­forts to establish communication with students, especially through the classroom. 
"I myself taught at Marquette, and hope to do so again here next year," she said. "This is beneficial for both administrators and students; administrators ·keep in touch with student sentiment and students see the administrator removed from an 'ivo~. t.Qww.: of 
j
isolation." 
Dr. Cannon also called students "consumers of the product of the college." 
"It's up to the faculty and ad­ministration to see that what they get is quality; sometimes the best way to achieve this is to go into the classroom yourself." 


Is this the perfect Datsun? 

1 
1

Ask the expert. 1 1 
Your Datsun dealer is the Small Car Expert. Let ~ him show you what makes ,the 1200 Sedan so perfect. 
• 
Up to 30 miles per gallon 

• 
Safety front disc brakes 

• 
Whitewall tires • Optional 3-speed automatic transmission 


Drive a Datsun •.. then decide. 



DATSUN 
PRODUCT OF NISSAN 

Jim Hammes 

DATSUN 
2102 L.W.W. MISH• 
255-9644 . Mon. & Thurs. Eve. 
The first rnalt I" 
o: d •quor
~oo enough to be called BUDWEISER R e 


the observer Wednesday, March 15, 1972
4 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER
THE 
John Abowd Jim Jendryk



OBSERVER 
Editor-in-chief Business Manager 
News: 283-1715 EditoriaI: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Don Ruane Bill Bauerle Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Wallace -one reaction 

, 
George Wallace's victory in the Florida presidential preference primary raises

' 
~ more questions than simply the 
r estimation his strength in other states. It 
I raises fundamental problems: why do 
r 
people vote for Wallace? 

If George Wallace is simply the voice of ' the "little man," as some people say, the problem seems to be the isolation of our
f government from the people it is · designed to serve. If, however, the Wallace victory represents a voting in fear, then the problem is even more deeply a part of American life. No one will deny that government often loses sight of the individual in its policies. Bureaucracy breeds more bureaucracy, and the petty potentates in it are often responsible to no one but themselves and their most immediate superiors. Try to fight the system, try to get action on a pressing need, and witness a monster arising from hibernation. It rolls around, belches a little, rises a little, and falls back to sleep, tired from the effort of moving its mass. The government has the potential to move the country, to give it a sense of direction, to be the voice of the "common man." If it has abandoned this potential, it is the fault of the country as well as the government. If we are to get the ad­vantages of government, we must be willing to work to make it )Sponsive to our needs. There is no alttrnative. 
Fear and Politics 
Beyond the alienation that citizens feel from their government, there is an even more frightening aspect of Wallace's victory. That is the fear vote. There is no way to tell how much of Wallace's sup­port is attributable to this fear voting. If it is a major portion, Edmund Muskie's reaction might come terribly close to the truth. He called Wallace a "demagogue of the worst possible kind," his victory "a threat to the unity of the country." The charges are harsh -but understandable. It was Wallace that promised that if a demonstrator laid in front of his car, that would be the last car he'd lay in front of. It was Wallace who stood in front of school doors to block the enrollment of blacks. We have not been graced with this showmanship in the last few years, but has the man changed or is he simply toning rhetoric down? 
If the man had changed with the times, and is now truly the "voice of the little man," then his victory calls for a re­ordering of the government's priorities. But if his victory is the voice of racism and fear, then we, as a people, have much further to go to become a just nation. 
Jim McDermott 
Vote 
The Observer is trying to determine the support of opposition to the new University calendar. To make the results valid, we need as much participation as possible. The ballots are in yesterday's edition of the paper -please use them. Hall presidents will be collecting them, or you can bring or mail them to the Ob­server office in the LaFortune student Center. Thanks. 

Faculty statement 
The cover letter accompanying the statement of 31 faculty members published on page five requested that we refrain from editorial comment before the statement has been printed. Because superficial impressions of issues as complex as those cited would only confuse the problem and because the principles criticized have not yet responded to the charges, we intend to delay editorial comment for at least one day. 
John Abowd 


Letter----------powcampaign 
Editor. 
I would like to take this op­portunity to reply to the courageous letter condemning the POW campaign conducted by Chuck Leader. Unfortunately. I will not be able to reply in person to the author as he neglected to sign his name to the letter. He makes claim that the US has acted immorally in the war by using "terror tactics via anti­personnel bombs". This may be true. but personally, I would rather die quickly in a bomb explosion than suffer slow agonizing death after stepping on a punji stakes smeared with human feces or after being hit in the chest with a weighted, spiked board. 1 would also hke to know what the author considers "terror tactics". If someone came into my town (or village>, took the mayor (or chief>, and tortured him to death in front of the whole town. promising to burn the village down unless the population co-operated with him, I would be tempted to classify his actions as "terror tactics". 
I am not saying the U.S. is above reproach regarding it's conduct in the war. but neither is the other side. As Gen. Sherman, during the Civil War. put it, "War is hell". 
Sincerely. 1\Hchael Robison 

SG JJOWI'i ..... 7To GO ~ 

Jabberwocky'mlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 

SMC's identity CriSIS 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Maria GoIIagher 
To no one's surprise, the merger is off. The selection of Dr. Edward Henry as president (remember. he wasn't the least bit interested in an 'interim' position> more or less confirms it; April 30 will just be the an­ticlimax to end all anticlimaxes. Of course, negotiations continue, but they'll be about as effective as Joan of Arc's 30-years-too-late aquittal. 
St. Mary's is no longer synonymous with Notre Dame. The ill-fated love affair is a tragic one indeed, made still more tragic because Juliet and Romeo were rent apart not by feuding families, but by a house divided against itself. 
So it appears that St. Mary's is to survive in spinsterhood, jilted by her fickle former wooer, Notre Dame. However, a psychological common­law marriage of sorts has existed for some years now, and it is from this ne'er-formalized bond that she now must break. The honeymoon is over. 
Most St. Mary's women identify them:;-elves with the total community of ND-SMC, reserving no particular rah-rah for St. Mary's alone. When asked where they go to school, they will boast "Notre Dame;" their automoblie stickers would identify them as Domers; their marriagable selves are almost destined to claim one of Our Lady's sons; the only af­filiation some share with SMC is eating and ~:.ieeping, and some don't even come home to do that. 
Now that the separate Boards of Trustees have divorced the two communities to go their unmerger ways, an identity crisis of sorts has arisen. The women of St. Mary's--those who choose to remain-must re­orient themselves toward a separate ide~tity, independent from the shadow of the Dome. They must establish faith in themselves as mem­bers of the viable community, yet with recent events (i.e. last December) hardly conducive to a "community" atmosphere and falling far short of her tripartite ideal, one must forgive them if this re-orientation is a bit painful and slow in coming. 
On her own now, St. Mary's plans to strive for a "new image"-the : small, liberal arts college tailored specifically to the needs of "today's women" <following the trend which is sweeping the country, so we are told>. Innovations are being called for--new courses, exchange with several neighboring institutim.:.:;, revitalized departments--all, of course, in an attempt for St. Mary's to objectify herself as a school which has a ' place in society. 
It is one thing for an institution to re-orient itself academically toward a different concept, but it is entirely another for its members to change their mental attitudes. Neither can be accomplished overnight, but the former is far more easily achieved than the latter. 
Such a reversal in attitude can only evolve if the students of the St. Mary's community are willing to comply. There is no sense in clutching onto what was once a dream. If the St. Mary's women will wake from their pouting apathy, they can help create for themselves an invaluable educational institution. All the ingredients are there-a well-qualified faculty, an intelligent student body, a hopefully progressive president­but it is up to the women themselves to utilize their potential. With the appointment of Dr. Edward Henry as president, St. Mary's has the op­portunity to come into its own, independent of Notre Dame and proud. All it needs is for its women to face the challenge. 
nite editor: Jack Frischkorn assistant night editor: Kathy Sch­wille day editor: Bill Sohn typists: rick smith, Lucy Rodarte, Pat Kenney, Barb Norcross Cat: If you could read my mind what a t.:-le my tho Jghts would tell. Mexicala Rose and O'Bean: Beware the Ides of March 

News Editor: Jerry Lutkus Managing Editor: Joe Abell SMC Editor: Maria Gallagher Features Editor: Rod Braye Editorial Page Editor: Jim McDermott Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 
tampus Editor: Ann Therese Darin 
Wednesday, March 15, 1972 the observer 
5 




Viewpoint--faculty 
The future at Notre Dame 

The signs are now clear, it seems to me, that Notre Dame is moving into a period of decline. Such a possibility arose with the change in governmental style which came with the Office of Provost, and with the reformulation of academic policies by that Office. Style and policies have now reached a degree of development which suggests a deteriorating future. 
During the sixties Notre Dame developed a dualistic system of governance in which hierarchical rule and democratic self­government operated together in a con­tinuous give and take. As a result, necessary administrative abstractions were reasonably harmonized with concrete realities. Notre Dame has been, con­sequently, a remarkably stable and distinctly personal University. 
The Office of Provost, however, has modified the system. Rule has subsumed government; that Office has turned former democratic practices to its service. The abstractions with which the administration must deal are formulated without regard to 
_the circumstances in which persons actually work and live here, and these abstract principles are imposed on the community irrevocably. The loss of democratic self­government is in itself a mark of deterioration, but the consequences of that loss, consequences just emerging, promise to change Notre Dame into a University nawed in its principles, hectic and demoralized in its spirit, and retrogressive in its academic quality. 
In my own College and my own Depart­ment I have lately witnessed the filtering downward of the new style. Such a lining up of subordinates is inevitable; the style at the top becomes the ambience in which subordinates work. Those who receive edicts feel they can do little else but tran­smit the edicts to those beneath them. My Dean and Department Chairman clearly have moved away from the practice of consultation and into the habit of direct instruction. Meetings in which one expects to be consulted turn out merely to be meetings in which one's objections are turned back. The signs are already clear, after two years of the new style, that we are moving rapidly toward a future in which nobody listens, nobody sees. 
But if the administration's future at Notre Dame is one of diminishing quality, the future of the faculty and the students is equally poor. The new style runs directly contrary to the profession of unviersity teaching. It denies the principle, defined by the American Association of University Professors, that in academic matters the faculty's responsibility is primary. A professional faculty naturally expects, as an integral part of the academic life, direct and effective participation in academic governance. But faculty members at Notre Dame already find themselves less professionally fulfilled than in the past. The University, in short, is moving toward professional decline. 
Students face a parallel future. The mounting frustrations of the Student Life Council. decisions made like the recent selection of halls for women, the current awareness-brought on by a comic election­of futility in student government all are clear signs that student life includes less and less meaningful participation in the governance of student affairs. Like the faculty. students who have a full sense of their place in a university also face a future of frustration. 
The whole community·at Notre Dame is being revised. and revised downward. This revision embraces the administration, the faculty. and the students; it comes at the cost of democratic values. of professional values. and of educational values. A frustrated. regimented society also makes a poor community. and individuals whose self-respect and confidence are perpetually undermined become poor as persons. 
The irony of all this is that the new style itself, of its very nature, faces a poor future. In its arriving at abstract descriptions of campus situations, in composing abstract systems by which to change the campus, in announcing its decisions to all beneath it, and in commanding the campus to change, the new style gives a show of brilliance and strength. But moving deductively from abstract conceptions to concrete realities is blind and shaky. If realities refuse to conform to the formulas, this style runs the risk of eventual abandonment. And. the damage done by then may be very great. The fortunes of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's merger have already prefigured the pattern we can expect. In that instance, agreement was made first in principle, with the con­crete details to be worked out later. When the details refused to allow the principle, the entire effort--after great labor--was abandoned. The merger started correctly with a long process which worked from the bottom up, but it was brought to a precipitous end precisely with a shift to the new style of governance. Of its own nature, the new style gives us a future in which, in addition to suffering irreversible losses, we may all need to cope with a series of ad­ministrative failures. 
Like the new style, the new policies under which we now live and work also promise a declining future. The new quota regulating the proportion of tenured to non-tenured faculty in each department is already turning the two faculty groups against each other. When the number of available places is fixed, those who have them and those who want them are bound to be in tension. Within departmental appointments and promotions committees, deliberations are taking on a new edge. Retiring faculty, not liking to prevent the young from moving up, are thinking twice before requesting con­tinuation of a teaching position beyond retirement; indeed, that whole possibility is becoming quite tense. Junior faculty members now face competition not only with others of the same rank and longevity, but also with faculty behind them, for committees may decide to fill an available position later when a younger but possibily less replaceable faculty member may come up. In short, the spirit within the faculty community, a spirit which has been characterized by a sense of equality, cor­diality, and mutual respect, is already turning into that of a caste system. 
This quota also combines with other new policies to place each faculty member in a four-way squeeze between students, ad­ministration, a depressed job market, and an increased work load. The student course evaluations have been made the primary basis for judging the quality of teaching to determine eligibility for promotion and tenure. In other words, the course evaluations have been made the in­struments of the Provost's Office and thus will serve to increase the pressure students put on the faculty. <Students, I am sure, have no idea how sensitive the faculty already are to the course evaluations. These forms have clearly affected the quality of teaching here, and until now have changed it for the better.) But now, the intensified pressure-of the evaluations joins the pressure of the new twelve-hour­equivalent teaching load. The number of courses faculty members must teach in the future will certainly increase. An even further intensification of pressure will come from cutbacks in faculty size, which will increase course enrollments. The depressed job market will force faculty to stay in this vise. and the quota will help make faculty ill-at-ease with each other. Non-tenured facultv. furthermore, whose promotion to tenu~e depends upon "the quota." face the necessity of teaching more. publishing more. and pleasing more people without assurance of even the possibility of a future which gives their exertions pur­pose. 
This combination of policies will also cxact a cost from the students. In the pressure-cooker of our growing situation, the course evaluation system is as likely to corrupt good teaching as to stimulate it. If a faculty member is not tempted to tamper directly with the forms. he will inevitably face the temptation of aiming his teaching directly at the forms. Many aspects of 
classroom teaching, aspects which the evaluations specifically grade, are not visible to students unless a faculty member makes them visible. One's preparation for class, for example, or one's knowledge of the scholarship in his field--these do not automatically show. But they can certainly be displayed and easily faked; a professor whose sytle is based on a Socratic pretense of ignorance can easily switch to a style based on a continuous disparaging of previous scholars. Student approval, fur­thermore, can be sought in more ways than by the way a faculty member works. I do not want to imply a pessimistic view of faculty character; rather, I want to imply a pessimistic view of the course evaluation system when carried beyond a certain measure of usefulness. Pressures on everyone can mount, especially when exerted from all sides, until a vicious circle develops in which harsh evaluations foster poor teaching. 
Increased teaching loads and faculty cutbacks will also place students in fewer courses where pedagogical innovation deviates from traditional teaching methods. 
Students will find fewer faculty members who can give directed readings and fewer who supplement class meetings with meetings in their homes. Because in­novation and personal attention are time­consuming, the new twelve-hour-equivalent teaching load <new in fact, if not in theory), based on mathematical calculations rather than on the actual circumstances of teaching, will eliminate a good deal of the kind of imaginative, personal teaching that has developed here in the last ten years. Because the faculty have been working full­time. the new teaching load will direct their work more narrowly toward efforts that can be reduced to mathematical calculations. Teaching will aim at increasing the production figures, the number of student­credit-hours taught. To put it bluntly, in the future students face a decline in the quality of teaching. 
While we have already begun to feel the effects of the interaction of the new policies, we have seen no sign, either in advance of the announcements of policies or sub­sequently, that the administration has ever concerned itself with such interaction and its effects. Nor have we detected any sign of administrative attempts to run feasibility tests of their policies in light of current realities and against reasonable hypotheses about the future. In other words, just as the nature of the new style gives no assurance of eventual success, so the feasibility of the nl.'w policies is totally without demon­stration. The admintration has made a monumental act of faith, and has com­manded us to make an act of faith in its faith. We have been made receptive to new policies not by consultation, not by in­formation, not by demonstration, but rather by the crisis mentality which has pervaded this campus for the past several years. This mentality has been stimulated to the point where we are forgetful of the gains made in the past and worried only about alleged cxtravangances which we are assured exist even if we cannot see them. The new policies are not oriented toward moving us forward to a new and higher level of quality, but toward correcting alleged abuses which are never specified. We accept the policies thinking they are aimed not at us but at targets in the "other college." 
The further irony of all this is that we enter upon such a future unnecessarily. Everyone knows we need to economize; e\'eryone is willing to work constructively toward that end. Demonstrably, the fomer duality of rule-with-self-governance worked well and was still developing. Indeed, there fs no reason why such a financially well-run l'ni\'ersity as Notre Dame, and such a stable. close knit community cannot work toward a future in which its position is improved. Instead we have adopted a destructive style of governance dictated by no necessity. and we have submitted to an apparatus of destructive policies which the situation does not require. Notre Dame is on an administrative adventure. Who can count the cost before it is abandoned? 
I decided to write this article because I can find no administrator who wiillisten or do anything. I meant to send it to the Scholastic in my own name to be printed in the space reserved for faculty comment. But friends dissuaded me from risking, on today's campus, an open disclosure of my views, and reflection convinced me their fears were justified. My name is buried, therefore, among those of the sponsors of this statement. Some may think such fears are foolish, but let none miss the point that they are real. We have come to this at Notre Dame: that conscientious advice can no longer be given. From such a stance we move into the future. 
Notre Dame, Indiana March 14, 1972 
signed: 
We sponsor in substance the above statement, "the future at Notre Dame." 
John G. Borkowski Asociate Professor of Psychology
R.M. Brach Associate Professor of Engineering Joseph X. Brennan Professor of English George A. Brinkley Professor of Government Walter R. Davis Professor of EngI ish Joseph M. Duffy Professor of English Dennis J. Dugan Associ ate Professor of Economics Ernest L. Eliel Professor of Chemistry Michael J. Francis Associate Professor of Gover11ment 
Jeremiah P. Freeman Professor of Chemistry 
E. A. Goerner Professor of Government Thomas J. Jemielity Associate Professor of English Walter M. Langford Professor of Modern Languages James Michael Lee Professor of Education William D. McGlinn Professor of Physics Leslie H. Martin Assistant Professor of English Frank O'Malley Professor of Eng I ish Paul A. Rathburn Assistant Professor of English Julian Samora Professor of Sociology Ernest Sandeen Professor of EngI ish Donald Sniegowski Associate Professor of English 
William J. Stritch Professor of Communication Arts and American Studies 
Thomas R. Swartz Associate Professor of Economics Fred W. Syburg . Associate Professor of Speech and Drama lvo Thomas Professor of General Program Joseph A. Tihen Professor of Biology Edward Vasta Professor of EngI ish 
Peter Walshe Associate Professor of Government and Economics 
James Walton Associate Professor of Eng I ish 
Ronald Weber Associate Professor of Communication Arts and American Studies 


copies to: 
Original: Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
c.s.c. 
President of the University Copies: Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. Provost Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C. Executive Vice-President Rev. Ferdinand L. Brown, C.S.C. Associate Provost Rev. Howard J. Kenna, C.S.C. Provincial of the Indiana Province, C.S.C. Mr. Edmund A. Stephan Chairman of the Board of Trustees Dean Thomas L. Shaffer Law School Dean Frederick J. Crosson College of Arts & Letters Dean Bernard Waldman College of Science Dean Joseph C. Hogan ~liege of Engineering Dean Thomas T. Murphy College of Business Administration Dean Emil T. Hofman 
Freshman Year of Studies Prof. Thomas R. Swartz Mr. John Barkett 
Student Body President Mr. John Abowd Epitor in chief, The Observer Mr. Joseph Hotz Co editor -in -chief. The Scholastic Mr. John Sabo Program Direcyor WSND-FM Miss Jeannine M. Doty Editor, Notre Dame Report 


r----------------------~-~------­
the observer Wednesday, March 15
6 


Administration ok's InPIRG fund 

h~· Hlllwrt Stu(·kt•r 
Tfw Notre Dame administration has approved the funding nwchanism for the Indiana Public lntNest (;roup 1InPIRG l as n•qtH•sted in a petition signed by ;tbout 75 per cent of the 6.3000 tmdergraduate students. 
i\ccording to F'r. Thomas E. Blantz. C.S.C .. vice president for student affairs. an optional charge of three dollars will be listed on each student bill as an InPIRG contribution. Last week Fr. Blantz stated that by responding to the student petition. the University hopes to "t'ncourage responsible student involvement in efforts to improve the quality of American life." 
Band to march 
•


1n Cleveland 
The University of Notre Dame varsity band will march in the 1972 St. Patrick's Day parade in Clt·veland. Ohio. The band will be the guests of the Emerald Civic Society. a Cleveland organization interested in the promotion of Irish culture. 
Hobert O'Brien. director of the "Band of the Fighting Irish" ex­plained that "this march main­tains our record of approximately twenty consecutive appearances on St. Patrick's Day, and the f<:nwrald Civic Society has been a very hospitable group." 
Accompanying the Notre Dame hand on the parade route will be Haymond Gilligan. governor of Ohio and an N.D. graduate, along with the current Miss America a ('il·v~·land native. ' 
The 70 member varsity band, including the Irish Gurad, will depart Thursday morning and arrive at the Sheraton Cleveland Hotel late in the afternoon. Thursday evening the band will be the guests of the Emerald Civic Society at an evening party, at­tended by 100 students near from nearby St. John's College at a Clt>veland restaurant. 
The morningof St. Patrick's Day, the band will attend a con­l"clebrated Mass at St. John's Cathedral. before playing the Irish National Anthem. the Star Spangle Banner. and the Irish "clog" in a noontime colors ceremony at Cleveland's Public Square. ~'allowing the afternoon parade, the hand will return to Notre Dame late ~'riday evening. 

To adopt ND calendar 
SMC follows suit 
St. Mary's College will follow 
Notre Dame's academic calendar 
next year. announced Acting 
President Sr. Alma Peter. The 
schedule adopted Tuesday by the 
i\eademic Affairs Council differs 
from Notre Dame's schedule only 
on graduation dates. 
In passing the new calendar, the 
"Council objected to the fact that a 
ltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllli 
Sr. Alma Peter. acting President of SMC. will be the guest of the Keenan llall Commission in a discussion this Thursday. March 1-t. at 7 pm. in thl' Keenan-Stanford Chapel. The public is cordially invitl'd. 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
group of St. Mary's people were not involved in the original plan­ning of it." Sr. Alma noted. "With two schools as close as we are and wihh co-ex classes practically forcing st.· Mary's to adopt Notre llamp"s calendar. the Council felt it should have had an input into tlw original planning." 
If Notre Daml' changed its calt>ndar in response to student 
p<•titions.  the  Council  'would  
n•consider  its action.  Sr.  Alma  
added.  

TIH' tri-partite Council also n•viewt>d individual petitions from St l\lan··s students in Notre Dame pmgrari1s. but made no decisions on tlwse spt>cial cases. 

SAVE MONEY 
Do your own work on your car. 
We have Timing light Impact wrenches Ignition analyzer Socket sets Gear puller Socket set (metric) Car polisher and many other tools 
TV sets and Mini Refrigerators at surprisingly low rates, too! Also roll away beds for that extra guest on weekends! 
1OOfo Discount with Student ID 

Fr. Hlantz emphasized that the l'nivt-rsity would charge lni'IH(; for anv cost involved in collecting contrilmtions, and that the t:niversity's cooperation is contingent upon the enrollmC'nt of lil ooo students in the state 
necessary for minimum  lnPIRG  
funding of $120,000.  
.John  Bachmann.  one  of  

Ini'IHG·s campus coordinators, expressed approval of the ad­ministration move. "Over 100 people were involved in the petition drive," Bachmann noted, ·'and daily people come to Inl' IRG 's office interested in getting more information and working on the projects." 
Bachmann said he is confident that InPlHGsoon will have the 
40.000 required state contributors. "The students at Indiana l'niversity at Bloomington already have signatures from 50 per cent of the undergraduates, and are beginning to negotiate with the administration." 
lie also noted that within the nt-xt few months, 18 schools in t ndiana \Yill have petitioned for the lnl'l!{(; funding mechanism. At ~aint 1\tary·s. m percent of the student~ have signed the petition, and campus coordinators are prC'paring to approach the ad­ministration for approval. 
In response to this ad­ministration approval. a short mel'ting will be held tonight at 'i:on. in the Fiesta Lounge of Laf''ortune Student Center. for the purpose of enlisting new members and discussing possible projects. Speakers from several public interest groups. including Com­mon Cause and PACE, a prison reform group. will attend the nweting and offer suggestions. 
The general areas in which lnPIH(;will be working will be the environment. rascism, sexism, consumer affairs. and corporate and government accountability. ( lne project that has already been initiated will look into the possibility of recycling paper. glass and other resources from the 

waste collected at Notre Dame. 
ThP feasibility of doing public interest research for course credit will also be discussed. InPIRG coordinator George Willant stated that two departments have been contacted and have expressed mterest in establishing InPIRG­related courses. · . Willant stressed that the meeting 1s open to all students interested in developing InPIRG projects as well as all those who have worked with InPIRG in the past. 

ALUMNI CLUB 

tSENIOR BAR) 
presents 
WED. Pre-warm up -Warm up Happy Hour extended 4:00-9:00 Bar open till 2:00 

THURS. Warm up Bar open 9:00-2:00with Chris Manion and Fiddle playing friend stomping up a storm 
FRI. The Day Open 7:00am Beer 30c less than regular price for 1st hour ~r sells for 25c·glass rest of day 
SAT. Sorry, Bar Closed 
Baffle your foreign friends! ~~~A 
Twenty-nine new, hot and heavy hits From the prolific mouths oF The Firesign Theatre, live From their avant-garde religious radio series! Starring : !:1eo Gump, Don G. O'Vanni, Whole 
1 
lJ 
Earth Bill, The Pooper and The Small I Animal Administration. ­Get it on!.. Bang a marshmallow! 
aFF yourself stck! And, yes, you nn t-wist-ro itl 
--·----·-­
• 
• A specially priced 2-record set 

"DEAR FRIENDS." 
The Firesign Theatre. On Columbia Records~ ~n_dTapes 
Wednesday, March 15, 1972 the observer 
7 

No miracles for Digger's cagers 

by Vic Dorr Digger Phelps' first year at the reins of the Notre Dame basketball program was not a spectacular one. Nor did it even begin to ap­proach the achievements of his first--and only--year at Fordham. That year, during the 1970-71 campaign, Phelps took an unheralded squad of Fordham Rams, drove them to a 26-3 record, and earned a number of national coaching honors himself. Things were different during the past season. In his rookie year at NO. Digger was again given an "unheralded" team to work with. The squad he inherited had lost all of its five starters from the previous year. During the sum­mer. it was to lose its captain-elect to a motorcycle accident. And by the time the season got well underway. Digger's roster had been further reduced. Phelps would have needed something 


Dillon wins IH swim meet 
Sweeping both relays and winning four individual events, the Dillon Hall swimmers spashed to a resounding victory last week in the annual Interhall Swimming Meet. 
Dillon compiled 112 points in the ten event competition, easily outdistancing runner-up BreeD­Phillips Hall, which garnered 61 points. Badin Hall, with 15 points, was far back in third place. 
Freshman Dan Murtagh was the 
top individual performer for 
Dillon. breezing to a win in the 200­
yard freestyle with a time of 2:09.6 
and touching out teammate Bill 
Friese in the 50-yard backstroke. 
Both Murtagh and Friese were 
clocked in at 30.5 seconds. 
Breen -Phillips' Larry Quinn. 
was also a double winner, taking 
first place in the 100-yard in­
dividual medley and the 50-yard 
butterfly. Quinn recorded times of 
I :03.2 in the IM and 27.9 seconds in the 'fly. 
other Dillon winners were John 
Long, John Belcher and the team's 
200 yard medley and freestylt> 
relays. Long beat Badin's Steve 
Castellano to the wire by two­
tenths of a second in the 50-yard 
freestyle, finishing in 24.1 to 
Castellano's 24.3, while Belcher 
was a runaway victor in the one­
meter diving competition, racking 
up 110.1 points. 
Dillon's medley relay was 
clocked in 1:54.7 and its free relay 
in 1:39.2 as they finished well 
ahead of teams from Breen­
Phillips in each event. 
other winners in the meet were Castellano. who took top honors in the tOO-yard freestyle with a time of 5(;.4, and B-P's Tom Harrison, who won the 50-yard breastroke in :ll .2 seconds. 
along the lines of a miracle to have molded a consistent winner out of his material, and no miracles were forthcoming. The Irish cagers finished this year with a 6-20 record. 
"I wasn't really surprised that the season turned out like it did," Digger said. "A lot of people will just look at our overall record, but I look at what we started with on October 16th. We lost Doug (;emmel and John Shumate, and if you count Jim Regelan and Bob Valibus then we lost a total of 11 players to our program. 
"We knew we had to put things together the best we could after that. and if you look at what we did from Thanksgiving to the Villanova game. I think we had a great year. Look at how close we were in some of those games--St. John's, Villanova, West Virginia-­we were in them until the last minutes. 
"The kids never quit," he con­tinued, "they never let up. A lot of kids would have packed it in and said ·well, let's just go through the motions.' but these didn't. From the Indiana game <which ND lost, !l4-29l to the Villanova game <the NCAA-bound Wildcats edged the Irish 78-75) I think we were the most improved team in the nation." 
But now that the season is over, Phelps and assistants Frank McLaughlin and Dick DiBiaso have turned their attention to the recruiting program and to the 1972­73 campaign. 
"All we can do now," said Digger. "is be patient. We're after recruits who range from 5-11 to 6­10, but that's about as far as I can go into it. There are just too many variables involved. To discuss it now wouldn't be fair to the kids we're after. and it wouldn't be fair to the kids who are here now. Just like everyone else, we're looking for kids who're quick, and who can jump and shoot. Once we see what 

ND sailors to host freshmen regatta 
The Notre Dame sailing club will 
host its annual Freshman 
Icebreaker Regatta this weekend 
on St. Joseph's Lake. 
Freshmen and novice sailors 
from Iowa. Ohio State, Michigan 
State, Detroit, Wayne State, 
Marquette, Ball State, Purdue and 
Indiana will compete against the 
Irish. 
Notre Dame's hopes in the 
regatta hinge largely on the per­
formances of Jon Makielski, Ray 
Schnorr. and Cliff Walton. 
Anyone interested in competing 
this weekend should attend the 
sailing club meeting at 6 o'clock in 
room 204 of the Engineering 
Building. 








Bengal semi-finals 
Twenty fights are listed on tonight's card as the semi-final round of Notre Dame's 41st annual lh'ngal Bouts starts at 8 p.m. in the 
ACC. 
All six returning champions will be in aCtion tonight. five of them for the first time this year. Only Boland Chamblee. returning light heavyweight titlist,fought Monday night and the South Bend junior posted an impressive KO victory in the 165-pound division. 
Chamblee will face a stiffer test tonight. meeting Bill McGrath. a former Bengal champ. returned from a year of study overseas. 
(;ary Canori. 145-pound king. -f opens the defense of· his title against Charlie Morrison. who defeated Larry Gallagher Monday. 
In the other 145-pound semi-final pairing. Mike Suddes. 150-pound champ last year. will meet Tom Hanlon. a KO victor in his first defeated Tom W.i]ber in the bout. opening round. 
The reigning 155-pound titlist. Other top bouts will pit l\like Kevin Kerrigan will take on Ken l.oughery and.Jerr~· Bradley in the McCandless and last year's 160-1:?5-pound class; Larry Finneran. pound winner, Ed Carney, .meets who KO"d hislirstround opponent. Dan Moriarty. McCandless out-and Bob Bennett:· 165-pounders ." pointed JimLechner,;m<LMoriarty Norm Barry. a winner O\'er 
i' .. -~. ';~~''" \;.;,,;~i~;~; .=ih-...::::~·:+::. ' ' ~-''f,. 
.. !I -~~~. ~'it?.···: ·~_::j\:;

-~ · :..r • ·-'~_.;_.t:~·:·;"·;--;~;_'··· __ ... ­
,(' . . ~ 


. -----.... " ,. .. . , .....a~·r~.--· •.-•=-• ·· -·~·---::.~~-~"'·· ...·•·.............,..__ 
,· -"\-··"·"';:"': 
we've got, and see what we can do, then we'll start to put our offense together." 
Phelps, who will use freshmen on his varsity squad if they make it though fall tryout, is also counting on the past year's first-year squad for assitance. 
"Dwight Clay came off a broken 
finger around the middle of the 
season, but he showed he'll help us 
in the backcourt next year. And 
(;ary Brokaw should give us great 
strength in the backcourt. Pete 
Crotty came on strong, too. He 
showed us that he can do well at 
either high post or forward. 
"Those three kids will help us 
out. and John Shumate will 
hopefully be back, too. Of course, 
his health is the most important 
thing. but the doctors say his leg 
looks good. and we're hoping to 
have him back." 
One performer the ND cagers 
won't have back is forward Tom 
O'Mara, who will be leaving Notre 
Dame for Berkeley at the end of 
this term. "We're going to miss 
him." admitted Digger, "but 
you've got to understand his 
situation. It's a question of 
sacrificing his happiness for the 
Interhall Athletics 
The Interhall Athletic office has 
announced that it will conduct 
baseball and twelve-inch softball 
leagues, as well as a tennis tour­
nament, this Spring. The entry 
deadline for these events is March 
22nd. 
Baseball 
Rosters must consist of at least 
14, but no more than 18, players. 
Equipment will be furnished by the 
Interhall Athletic department. 
Rules and further information will 
be forwarded to each captain 
following deadline. 
Softball 
Rosters must consist of at least 
12, but no more than 16 players, all 
of whom must be from the same 
hall. Equipment will be furnished 
by the Interhall Athletic depart­
ment. Games will be conducted by 
established rules, which will be 
forwarded to each captain, along 
with the schedule, upon receipt of 
rosters. Won-lost percentage will 
determine final standing. 
Tennis 
There will be two divisions ­
Open, for advanced or experienced 
players, and Novice, for those who 
haven't played competitively. The 
matches will be best of three sets 
and USLTA rules will cover play. 
Rounds must be completed by posted date and winners an. responsible for turning in scores. Further details will be forwarded to entrants following deadline. 
Entries for all of these events may be submitted at the Interhall Athletic office, C-4, ACC, or by calling 6100 or 8975. 



on tap 
Chamblee last ,·ear. and Charlie <;rimm: and B~:ron King and Ken :\Iabrie in the 175-pound bracket. 
Tickets for tonight"s bouts are aYaila!lk' for S1 for general ad­mission and S2 for ringside and proceeds will benefit the Holy <·ro~s missions in Bangladesh. 
happiness of others. I think his committment to society is fan­tastic, and the guys on the team and the coaches all respect him. Again. we'll just have to regroup, reorganize, and move in a positive direction." 
But moving in a "positive direction" won't be easy for next vear's team, and the Irish schedule stands as the main challenge. If possible, it is tougher than last year's. New appearances on the ND slate will include Pitt, Xavier, the ·ohio State Buckeyes, and the Duke Blue Devils. 
"We play a schedule more competitive than many," said Digger, "but do you think we'd sell out if we had "X" University in here every week'? We're changing 
(Photo by Joe Raymond) 
our program to play more home games over the weekends. That way, we can do for the winter what football does for the fall. 
"We want to get teams like Davidson and Duke in here on Saturdays. Then we'll be able to have Friday pep rallies, rock dances after the rallies, and then concerts after the game on Saturday. With the girls here, that'll make the social life a lot more attractive in the winter." 
Eventually, maybe next year, Digger's basketball program is going to catch fire. There may not be any miracles for a while, but there will be top~rate competition. And the basketball games them­selves may become as interesting as the sideline entertainment. 

Pangborn wins Interhall playoff opener, 84 -65 
by Stan Urankar 
Pangborn strengthened its chances for a second consecutive lnterhall basketball title when they ripped Stanford, 84-65, last night in the Auxiliary Gym of the ACC. The runaway triumph gives the defending champions a 1-0 lead in this best two-of-three final series. 
The South Quad champs blew open another close game in the second quarter, just as they had done in their Quad finals against Holy Cross. With the lead seesawing back and forth, Stan­ford's Dick Prill clicked on a three­point play to knot the score at 15, but from there on, it was all Pangborn. 
Pete Farbotko tossed in a jumper {'arly in the second stanza, and John Cornelius and Tom Ritter {'ach broke away for a pair of easy layups to make it 34-22 before the Northerners called time out. Stanford tried to come back, but I 'angborn 's solid two-three zone defense forced poor shots and bad passes. 
The losers were hurt when 
playmaker Tom O'Connor was 
saddled with his third foul late in 
the opening period. and neither Bill Benca nor Jim MnGuire could effectively penetrate to feed big men Prill, Mike Bush, and Fred Swendsen. 
Stanford came as close as eight once more in the third quarter, but fast break layups by Farbotko and Ritter, Ralph Stepaniak's jumper from the corner, and a long bomb by Ron Goodman all but decided the contest. Trailing 62-43 going into the last period, the Nor­therners switched to a man-to-man defense, but that couldn't even change the margin of victory. 
Farbotko took game honors with 20 points, while leapers Ritter and Cornelius added 14 and 12, respectively. Stepaniak netted 17 markers and controlled the defensive boards with teammate Walt Patulski. 
Three men finished in double 
figures for the losing Northerners. 
Bush topped his squad with 16. 
Prill hit on a number of long 
jumpers to tally 15, while Swend­
sen contributed 12 points. 
(;arne two is slated for Thursday night at seven in the Auxiliary <;ym. while a third game, if necessary. is tentatively set for Sunday night. 

.... ­

HOOSIER HYSTERIA 
Returns to WSN D TONIGHT 11 :OOpm 

WSND 640/AM 

.. 
l 
J 
4 
l 
l 
I 
I 
the observer Wednesday, March 15, 1972 i.
8 





Slason resigns, 

I efforts wastedI 
Reacting to the lack of a Senate quorum last night and a year-long attendance problem, Morrissey Hall Senator Gene Slason resigned from the body. 
Slason claimed that "much of my efforts have been wasted and right now the situation appears quite hopeless." 
The problem with attendance has been one that, according to Slason, has plagued the Senate. "You can't accomplish anything if no one shows up. I'm personally sick of attending these glorified tea parties." 
Slason said that he resented all 
the not sc nice things said about 
the Senate in the past. However, 
three things bogging down the 
Senate according to Slason: 1) 
procrastinating, wishy-washy 
poobah types, 2) confining 


.,.. 
Spring break directives con­cerning the dining halls and hall security have been released by the Dean of Students. 
Both dining halls will close Wednesday, March 22, after the evening meal, and will open for the evening meal Tuesday, April 4. The 'South Dining Hall pay cafeteria will be open daily from 
7:20 a.m. to 7 p.m. , except for Good Friday when it will close from lp.m. to 4 p.m. It will be closed Easter Sunday. 
Beginning Thursday morning, March 23, and lasting until Tuesday afternoon, April 4, all outside dormitory doors will be locked. Arrangements for a special lock for one door of each hall are underway. A special key for students remaining in the halls will be available from the rectors for a $5 deposit. 
The Dean also recommended the following for maximum security: Il keep the door locked when you 
Security tightens on caznpus lor break 
WE'RE READY FOR WARM WEATHER 

, 
Our spring-summer stocks are in: beach wear, shirts, Levis 
and jeans, etc., etc. Stop in! 
regulations, 3) general lack of attendance. 
The Senate was to have voted on a new Constitution last night. Slason felt that it was a good one and a "real step forward for the Senate." Slason expressed his disappointment by saying, "There's absolutely no hope of doing anything constructive again." 
"I'd like to express my thanks to John Barkett, the only man who could move a lethargic Student Senate into doing anything at all," Slason concluded. "He has been and still is the prime mover on this campus in my opinion. I wish also to thank Orlando Rodriguez, John Arerena, and John Kwecien for the advice, criticisms, and en­couragement throughout the year." 
are not in your room, 2)whenever you leave the hall by an outside door, take the time to be sure the door is fully closed from the out­side, 3) if you see any strangers in the hall, notify security at 6130. 
WANTED 
Wanted: 2 female roommates lor house off-camp:.~s. Rent $40 month. Call 8409. 
Mr. J.G. Little lass brom Bonaparte Town desperately wants a first class education at Du Lac. Will not disappoint you. 
Want to rent garage near campus lor remainder of semester. Call alter 6:30pm. Frank 8242. 
Need two individuals to rent six-room bi -level apartment lor summer months. Completely and comfortably furnished · Ideal for Grad students. 10 minutes from campus $85 per month total. Contact Kevin 272-7565 or Rich 283-1766. 
Need 2 . 4 Sonny-Cher Tix (non­bleachers). George . 1337. 
WANTED: Wine bottles (empty, of course) to be used in decorating the North Dining Hall and the South Dining Hall for Italian Night. Please bring your empty bottles to the Manager's Office of the North Dining Hall or the South Dining Hall, prior to April 7th. 
. ­
PERSONALS 
In Memoriam Gaii lulii Caesaris Venit. Vidit, Vicit. Mort. ldus Mart. 709 A.U.C. 
-
Attention second-floor library who may be laboring under a false assumption: John J. Hugh is not a 
dirty old man. The Iron Hand 
CAC's Cinema '72 presents A FellinI• Festival Today -(Wed. March 1 5) LA DOLCE VITA 
7 and 10 pm Engineering Aud. 
ther films in Festive1: 8 1/2, Juliet of the Spirits 
Adm. -$1.00 Cinerna '72 patrons 
-
•••ON STYLE 
We carry the apparel styles the university man wants. 
The colors, fabrics and fit you expect. 
•••ON PRICE 
We are competitive with any store, anywhere for quality apparel. Shop. Compare. 
•••ON TERMs 
Buy and wear your appareI now, pay one-third in June, one-third in July and one-third in August WITH NO INTEREST OR CARRYING CHARGE. What could be easier? 

FREE 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
BRUCE BARKER WANTED 
Bruce Barker: WHERE ARE YOU? We are waiting with bated breath to hear from you. Write quick. Annie 
-
NOTICES 
Parts and Accessories for lm­ported Cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 272-7187. 
DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and Within Europe. Leave anytime from NY-Chicago. Flight Center 227 North Randall. Madison, WI 53705 (608) 263-3131. 
Typing Anyf ime--Reasonable Prices. Chip (8256) or Mike (6963). 
NASSAU TRIP MARCH 24-31. 8 days and 7 nights with quad ac-com. Air tare and Hotel may be purchased separately. Limited number of seats available. Tickets on Sale at Student Union 
Ticket office. $202 inclusive. Questions, Call 7757. 
-· 
New 7th through 9th grade classical Christian school needs English, Latin, Math, Science teachers. Small salaries first year. Looking tor graduatestudents 
New 7th through 9th grade classical Christian school needs English, Latin, Math, Science teachers. Small salaries first year. Looking tor graduate students (preferably with Masters) to work part-time while at Notre Dame. Closing date for applications March 19th. Send vita, references, etc. to Magdalen School, P.O. Box 1225, South Bend 46624. 
FLORIDA!!! Round Trip $40. Call 283-6339 between 4-7 pm. Ask for Rob. 
TRY OUTS ND-SMC FRESH­MAN NO VARSITY CHEERLEADERS INVITE YOU TO CHEERLEADER TRYOUTS­ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 
3:30 PM. SUNDAY, MARCH 19 IN THE BASEMENT OF WALSH HALL. 
Spend a day in Chicago before break this Saturday. 2 pm . 2 am. Round trip bus tickets available ­$4 each. Call 6785 6-7 pm. Also Laura Nyro Chicago Auditorium tickets on same nite. 
Detroit Club St. Patrick's Day celebration Friday March 17 8:30 pm. 54115 Burdette St. BYO. All Invited. Call 272-2068 tor info. and ride. 
Cleveland Club Easter Bus Gary 8150 
Pitt Club Easter Bus Sign ups and Payment March 16 Thurs. 7:30-8:30 Room 2-D La Fortune 
Drive-a ways now available to your home town. Inexpensive and convenient travel. Call 7843. 
Jackson Hole Ski Trip · 2 places left . $99. March 23-31. Litts & lodging -Call 6875 · Hurry. 
NO PLANS for Easter vacation? Spend the first week of Spring in Hampson County, South Carolina, tutoring elementary and high school students. Persons with cars especially needed; expenses will be minimal. Also, additional SMC students needed. For further information, call 4501 or 234-5889 
(Paul). 12 00-1:00 am. 
JOBS ON SHIPS! MEN. WOMEN. Perfect stJmmer job or career. No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. 
Send $2.00 tor intormation. Sea fax, Box 1239-IG, Seattle, Washington 98111. 
The best way to and from Chicago is on the Greyhound Non-stop from campus. Call Tom Boyer, 6984, tor information. 
GREAT WHITE HOPE Sat. 3:30,7 9. THE SHAMELESS OLD LADY. Sun 2,8. Carroll Hall Last 
~rasp._~-_. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found one Wittnauer "award" wrist watch see monitor Memorial Library. 
Found: Contact lens. Call Sam 7415. -
Lost: N D food Coupon Book. Call Pat 232-9118. 
-
Lost Keys on long chain. Generous reward. Help, call 8320. 

ATTENTION! Lost: Small red notebook. Return much ap­preciated. Call 1376. 
-

Lost: Shaggy black and grey dog with Indianapolis rabies tag on choker chain. Please call 234­1752, 2724761 or 283-1956. 
-·--­RIDES 

People need ride(s) to Baton 
Rouge New  Orleans  area,  for  
break.  Call  Rick 8257.  
- 

Need ride to N .Y .C. or Conn. Can leave anytime on or after 23rd. Call Paul 8276. 
Ride wanted to Syracuse 1\f. Y. for 
2. Leave March 21 or 22. Call Tom 1078. 
-

Need ride to Youngstown Ohio or Turnpike East. Fri. Mar. 17. Rob 8152. 
Need ride to New Orleans for break. Call Chris 8659. 
Ride needed to Florida. EX· perienced driver with perfect driving record will share driving and expenses. Can leave Tuesday 
(21) or Wednesday (22). Please call Pete at 1721. 
Desparately need ride to Cin­cinnati or vicinity this weekend. 
Please call Annie . 5107. 

Need ride to Davenport. Iowa, I-BO west. Call 8423. 
-

Need ride to Syracuse area March 
22. ·Call Mary 5124. 

Need ride to NYC, Phil., or Wash. D.C. Mar. 18. 8426. 
Need ride(s) to L.l. or Rhil. Mar. 18-19. 8720. 
2 girls need ride to Florida. Call Kathy, 5183 please! 
Need ride to Florida, Can leave Tuesday (3-21). Call 1441. 
Need ride to Florida for spring break. Call Mary Ann 4552. 
Need ride to Detroit and-or back for Easter. Call Roger 1588. 
Need ride to Providence Rl vicinity Spring Break. Michael 233-4435. 
FOR SALE 
-

For Sale: '63VW Good Condition. Phil 3444, Ned 2164. 
Save on Recording Tape! Cassette, reel, and S-track; Ampex, BASF, Memorex, Sony, or TDK. Call Don: 3729. 
Afgan puppies AKC, male and female, several colors and m-asks. Call 288 6911. 
-

ROBERTS 770X tape recorder: Cross Field heads, sound on sound, sound with sound, 4 speeds. 
Call 3729. 

4-track car player FM Stereo cartridge. 2-8 ohm car speaker. Call Joe 283-6569. 
STEREO SPEAKERS· Exciting New Sound Unbeatable Buys. Call 283-8426. 
For Sale: '67 Honda 305. $400. Call George 8327. 
Handsome Leather BELTS Made on campus. On display at TTony's Shoe Shop behind Adm. Bldg. -Golf cart for sale or rent. Call Jim 8906. 
-

Two sets speakers. Utah; Dynaco; also cameras, en­cyclopeidas. Call 1678. 
-FOR RENT 
-

Dual 8mm projector for rent. Call Don: 3729. 
Words lda 2da Jda 4da Sda 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.001.501.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.15 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.4t3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.10 1.95 

t 

.. 






