
On The Inside McGovern victor in Massachusetts 
... pg 3 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VI, No. 117 Wednesday, April 26, 1972 
Humphrey wins in Pennsylvania 
by Donald Janson <c) 1972 New York Times 
Philadelphia, April 25 -Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey scored a cO'nvmcing victory today in the popularity poll of Pennsylvania's Democratic Presidential Primary and also led Sen Edmund S. Muskie for Pennsylvania delegates to the party's national convention. 
It was the first time Humphrey had ever won even a partial victory in a contested state primary, and provided momentum for his campaign after second and third-place finishes in the earlier F.lorida and Wisconsin primaries. 
Sen. George McGovern, who spent only three days campaigning in Pennsylvania while concentrating on the Massachusetts Primary, showed surprising strength, running neck and neck with Muskie for second place. 
Governor George C. Wallace ofAlabamawas a strong fourth rather than the distant fourth many observers had forecast. Support for Sen. Henry M. Jackson was weak. 
The five candidates and Rep. Shirley Chisholm of New Hork competed for 137 delegates. This count lagged, but in early returns Humphrey led for 43 and Muskie for 34. 
With 52 per cent of 9,792 precincts reporting, the count in the popular voting was: Humphrey 247,570, or 35 per cent McGovern 156,595, or 22 per cent Muskie 156,492, or 22 per cent Wallace 128,495, or 18 per cent 
With strong support from organized labor, Hum­
phrey defeated Muskie even in Philadelphia despite 
endorsement and efforts of the Democratic party 
organization in Pennsylvania's Metropolis. City 
Chairman Peter J. Camel did not turn out a strong 
popular vote for his candidate, but managed to elect 
Muskie delegates in most city districts. 
For Muskie and Humphrey, it was the first essen­
tially head-to-head confrontation of the primary 
season, with each sorely needing a strong showing. 
Each campaigned in the Keystone state almost daily 
after disasterous third and fourth place finishes in the 
Wisconsin Primary three weeks ago. 
But even before the polls closed tonight, Muskie was 
looking ahead to another primary -in California, on 
June 6, where the winner takes all271delegateselected 
there. 

Hubert Humphrey, winner in yesterday's Penn­sylvania primary, shown here in recent appearance in South Bend. 
After ten holes of golf at the Squire Country Club outside Philadelphia, the Maine Senator placed a conference call to his campaign headquarters in Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Sacramento.He told some 100 workers in each city that no matter what the out­come today he was in· the race for the democratic nomination "until the last delegate vote is counted" at the national convention. 
"Adlai Stevenson used the California Primary to get to the general election and I plan to do the same thing," he said. 
Tonight he dined at his suite at Benjamin Franklin Hotel here with five Mexican-American supporters from California. 
Humphrey, meanwhile, spent most of the day in Washington, returning to Philadelphia in time to watch the Pennsylvania returns come in. 

During the campaign the former Vice President, relying heavily on strong support from organized labor in this big industrial state, repeatedly called it the keystone to his campaign. He confided that it could be his "waterloo" if he did not do well after failing to win in Florida and Wisconsin. 
Thousands of union members were on the streets as the voting proceeded, handing out sample ballots for Humphrey and for delegates committed to him. 
Countering their efforts near the polling places were Democratic Party Organization workers, who passed out sample ballots for Muskie. 
The Muskie strategy of obtaining early en­dorsements fom party leaders brought Governor Milton J. Sharp and the Democratic Chairman in Philadelphia, Peter J. Camel, into the Muskie fold three months ago. 
With their prestige on the line, their statewide and citywide organizations were thrown into the fight in Muskie's behalf. 
McGovern had a vigorous organization of volunteer workers, especially in Pittsburgh, and the populous Philadelphia suburbs, but he spent only three days campaigning in Pennsylvania. 
His strategy was to concentrate on the 102 delegates to be elected in Massachusetts the same day, in an 1 effort to emerge as the day's winner of the greatest aggregate of delegates from the two states. He made appearances with Kathleen Kennedy, eldest daughter of the late Sen. Robert F. Kenned)',_ in both Massachusetts and Pennsylvania to suggest support of the Kennedy family. 
Liberal suburbanites and young voters were among McGovern's principal targets in Pennsylvania. 
To capitalize on his Polish·background, Muskie went aftei· the State's ethnic votes, more than 18 per cent of Pennsylvania's 11.8 million population. 
Humphrey courted not only the 1.6 million members of the Union in the state, but also the blacks and jews, 9 and 4 per cent of the population, respectively. 
The 137 elected Pennsylvania delegates will caucus next month to select 27 more. The state Democratic· Committee will choose an additional 18. The total of 182 will be the third largest delegation at the nominating convention in Miami Beach in July. 
Only the elected 137 are bound to vote for a particular candidate, and only for one ballot. In this group, any who ran successfully, as uncommitted to a candidate are bound to none even for the first ballot. 
Jackson and Chisholm did not campaign in Penn­
sylvania. Wallace made only two flying visits and held 
one rally. 


Mock Convention hears 0'Brien 
by Sue Prendergast and Mike O'Hare 
Calling for the Democratic Party to offer "solid, tangible, and positive alternatives to restore the faith of Americans in their government," Democratic National Party Chairman Lawrence O'Brien presented the keynote speech for the 1972 Mock Convention. 
ln his speech, O'Brien declared that "there is far more than election at stake in 1972. The American political system itself is on trial." He contended that millions of Americans have become dubious of "the capacity of this system to produce strong com­passionate, understanding, and trustworthy ieaders sensitive to the needs of the poeple." 

O'Brien stressed that in order to regain the con­fidence of the people, political leaders must not make wild promises that they cannot keep, and must admit their mistakes instead of trying to cover them up. 
In regards to the Vietnam War, O'Brien declared that the party must commit itself "without reservation or qualification" to ending the war. Although he declined to specify a time limit for withdrawal O'Brien assured the convention "our committment wili be formalized as immediately as possible and it will be absolutely, unequivocably definitive." 
During the question period following his speech the Democratic National Party Chairman advoc~ted barring private contributions to political campaigns. 
When questioned about Alabama Gov. George C. Wallace's role in the Democratic Party, O'Brien responded, "He has chosen to use the Democratic Party as a vehicle and has every legal right to seek delegates to the convention." 
O'Brien also commented on Vice-President Spiro T. Agnew's recent attacks on leading Democratic presidential candidates, "I am confident that Americans will recognize Mr. Agnew's rhetoric for 

Democratic National Party Chairman Lawrence O'Brien at the 1972 Mock Convention. 
1111111111 Dllnt1111111111 Ul IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1111111111 
Convention leaders urge all delegates to attend the con­vention sessions although they may not have been contacted by their delegation chairman. There is a seat available for each delegate, but absenteeism has been noticable during the first three sessions. Plese attend today's sessions at 2:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111, 
what it is -.a 1972 versio~ of Republican McCarthyism, employed m a blatant disregard of the intelligence of the American people." 
I~ the afternoon session of the Mock Convention, action centered around the rejection of the Rules Com_mittee's nominations for chairman of the con­ventiOn. 
The Rules Committee report placed Don Patrick, Dan Thornton, G~ry Ma_ter~a, Ann· Marie Tracey, and Anthony Abowd m_nommabon for the chairmanship. The members of this bloc would each chair one of the 5 remaining sessions of the convention. 
However, Bob Welly, a delegate from Ohio oppossed the nomination of the five person bloc. The'motion to elect the five nominees for the position of chairman 
-was defeated by the convention. T~e convention then voted to elect Bob Welly as chairman for the remainder of the convention. The evening session of the convention concerned 
(Continued on page 12) 


' ~ 
r
, 
f 
Wednesday, April 26, 1972
the observer 

on campus today

Washington--F. W. Woolworth was ordered by the Price Commission to cut back its lunch counter prices throughout its chain of variety stores. 
2:30 .. convention, mock

The commission also ordered the Sim?son Timber Company, a major 
political convention,

lumber concern. to roll back any pricP. increase it has made in Phase Two 
stepan center. 

over the 8 per cent maximum allowed by the commission. 
4:15 .. lecture, c. m. sliepcevich, escape worthiness of vehicles,

Dt>troit--In an unusual step, the Ford Motor Company announced it was 
radiation research •

recalling 436,000 1972 Ford Torinos and Mercury Montegos to install new 
auditorium. 

rear axles and bearings. Last week, Ford had recalled the same cars in 
7:00 .. convention, mock

order to solve the same problem in a different way, which was criticized 
political convention,

by consumer groups and some customers. 
allard Iowenstein ad­dress, stepan center. 


briefs 

Washington--The White House announced Tuesday night that the 7:30 --lecture, brother bob United States and the South Vietnamese were prepared to reopen the hoffman, opportunities in Paris peace talks at the next regular session provided that the first item summer volunteer work would be to find means to end "the flagrant North Vietnamese invasion." in appalachia, 121 o'shag. Earlier, the White House had announced that Henry Kissinger had 7:30 --meeting, chess club, secretly visited Moscow last week. 227 math building. 
8:00--lecture, hanna gray, 

machiavelli and the Saigon--A 2,000 to 3,000 man South Vietnamese force was reported humanist tradition, little trapped by attacking North Vietnamese troops in a border outpost nor­theatre. 
thwest of Kontum, South Vietnamese military officers said Tuesday. other enemy forces pressed toward Kontum and appeared to be on their way to cutting the country in two through the Central Highlands. at notre dame-st. mary's 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

ANYAIRLINE CAN TAKE YOU TO EUROPE FOR A LOW FARE. BUTONLY TWA CAN OFFER YOU ALL THIS: 
There are 16 ofthem, covering 19 of the world's
TWA's STUTELPASS.* 
most popular cities. 
A coupon booklet that They not only describe the regular sightseeinggets you a room and attractions, but the offbeat places as well.
Continental breakfast in And have discount coupons good for hotels, either a guesthouse or restaurants, shops, cars, tours, etc. 
student hotel in any of 
For only $1 a book you can save up to52 European cities for only $4.80 a night. 
$100 a city.

No advance reservations needed. 
They're available at all TWA ticket offices orAnd, as a bonus, we throw in free coupons good from your TWA travel agent.
for bullfights, concerts, the use ofa bicycle, theater tickets, sightseeing and more. 
TWA's FREE GETAWAY CARD.* TW/l:s BED AND BREAKFAST 
With it, you can charge 
youth airfare, Stutelpass, w..~ Bed and Breakfast
ADVENTURES.* '·-······ ~~ 1k:iUli1' ~· 
A higher grade of ! Adventures, car rentals
:~_, Getclwav Adventures 
WROPI'1972

reserved accommodations, 
and more, in the United in any of52 European cities. States and Europe. 
They range in price from And then, ifyou want, you can also take up to $6 to $18 a day, and include. two years to pay. a room and Continental breakfast in either a TWA's C 0 NVENIENT DEPARTURES. 
guesthouse or economy TWA offers over 150 Ambassador flights daily hotel, taxes and all service to Europe. And over 40 flights a day across the
charges. !... ...·.. ··-=·m.·.·.w.w.w=•·=>m,___, 
United States. 
As a free bonus, we also throw in sightseeing 
tours, parties, theater tickets, local TWA CHARGES THE LOWEST 
transportation and TWA guide books. 

SCHEDULED FARE. 
TWA guarantees that the fare you pay is the lowest fare charged by any scheduled non-stop airline. 
And should the airfare be lowered, we'll refund the difference. 
So, call your travel agent or TWA. And this summer get more than just a low 


fare to Europe. "'Service marks owned exclusively by TWA. 
(THE OBSERVER) Harris poll reveals ( Primary News public opinion
J 
Page 3Wednesday, April 26, 1972 

Students attend 1972 Mock Con­vention at Stepan Center. 


\c) 1972 New York Times 

New York, April 25 --Growing public disen­chantment with the workings of the American system and a decline in respect for the press were described today to the American Newspaper Publishers Association. 
Louis Harris, public-opinion analyst, told the association's 86th annual meeting inthe Waldorf­Astoria Hotel that polling in the present presidential primaries indicated that 81 per cent of people admired 
Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama for "courage for saying things other candidates dare not say." He said that 51 per cent admired Sen. George McGovern of South Dakota for voicing beliefs "even if they are unpopular." 
But such favor, he held, is a result of their being 

"anti-establishment figures." Meanwhile President 
Nixon, he noted, has made a comeback from 5 points 
behind the top democratic candidates last July to 10 
points ahead at present. 
Harris attributed Nixon's gain largely to his having 

"draped himself successfully with the mantle of 
peace" in his China and Soviet policies, although "the 
jury is still out on Vietnam with the recent upsurge of 
fighting there." 
Nixon's "reputation for working for peace," Harris 

went on, has increased his support from 44 to 74 per­
cent among college-educated people with incomes of 
$15,000 and more. Since the last .Presidential election, 
Harris said, people with some college education have 
risen from 26 per cent to 33 per cent of the electorate, 
and those with incomes of $15,000 and higher from 11 to 
19 per cent. 
For the population as a whole, Harris said that a 54 

percent majority, compared with a 32 per cent 
minority, "think America has become a worse place to 
live" in than a decade ago. 
A 52 per cent majority, compared with a 29 per cent 

minority, believe that Vice President Agnew was right 
when he "took out after press coverage of the Nixon 
administration and the war." 
On dissatisfaction with existing leadership, Harris 

said 1966 surveys had shown that 29 per cent of the 
people had "a great deal of respect" for the press then, 
50 per cent had some respect and 17 per cent had 
hardly any. Now, he said, only 18 per cent report much 
respect, 51 per cent some respect, and 26 per cent 
hardly any. 


McGovern takes Massachusetts 
by Bit Kovach 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

Boston, April 25--Sen. GeorgeS. McGovern, _winning consistent majorities that cut across soctal and economic lines and extended statewide, swept to victory over Sen. EdmundS. Muskie in the Democratic Primary here tonight. 
The magnitude of the victory not only assured McGovern the vote of the majority of Massachusetts's 102 delegates to the national convention on the first ballot but put him in the lead in the vote for delegates personally pledged to him. 
Gov. George C. Wallace and Sen. Hubert H. Hum­phrey, neither of whom campaigned here, trailed far behind. 
An element of antiwar protest that offered some of the momentum to the McGovern campaign also seemed indicated by early returns in the Rep~blic~n Primary where Rep. Paul N. McCloskey of Cahforma received 15 per cent of the vote. 
McGovern jumped to an early lead in returns from Boston, showing unexpected strength in wards stretching from Italian sections of E_ast Bos~on thro~gh blue-collar wards in the central ctty to stlk-stockmg precincts on Beacon Hill. 
In early returns, McGovern's slate of at-large delegates, made up of 20 relatively unknown can­didates, was leading that of Muskie, which was headed by Boston Mayor Kevin H. White and included some of the best-known Democratic Party leaders in the state. 
With 18 per cent of the precincts counted in the 

popular vote, the top of the 12-candidate field stood this 
way: 
McGovern 42,592, or 47 per cent. 
Muskie 18,905, or 21 per cent. 
Wallace 8,714, or 10 per cent. 
Humphrey 7,2~2, or 8 per ~ent. 
The campaign for the De~ocrabc ~r~std_enb~l 

nomination and the sense of dtrect parbctpatwn m 
electing d'elegates to the national convention, 
generated widespread interest in the Massachusetts 
Primary this year. At stake are the ~02 delegat~s to the 
convention and a leadership role wtth the entire New 
England delegation to the national convention. 
A cumbersome ballot--listing 12 candidates and 

hundreds of candidates for delegate seats--prohibited 
the use of election machines except in the city of 
Boston, and a final count of the vote for delegates is not 
expected until Thursday. . . 
The candidate winning the statewtde vote wms also 

the first ballot vote of the 20 at large delegates to the 
national convention. The remaining 82 delegates first­
ballot votes go to the winner of the preferential contest 
in each of the 12 congressional districts. 
Although the Massachusetts Primary had earlier promised to become a battleground involving a half-
dozen major candidates, it became, in the end, a contest between Sen. ·McGovern and Sen. Muskie. Even then, Muskie largely ignored the state and relied instead on the strength of his early endorsements from the state's top Democratic Party leaders to protect him from embarrassment. 
As it developed, the state became the testing ground for two different concepts of primary campaigning in 1972. 
McGovern, relying on local organization and con­centrating on building momentum by campaigning in carefully selected states, came to Massachusetts on the crest of a surprise win in Wisconsin. 
Muskie, on the other hand, had hoped that public endorsements by the state's leading democrats would forestall an organized opposition while he fought for votes in every primary contest. 
Both of these theories, designed in the waning days of 1971, were out of date by the time of the Wisconsin vote in early April. 
McGovern, whose earlier endorsement here by the liberal wing of the Democratic Party in January had pinned down a large segment of that vote, found himself alone on the left, antiwar end of the political spectrum. Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York, who earlier called Massachusetts his most important primary, had dropped out of the race, and Rep. Shirley Chisholm of New York, looking for a coalition of women, blacks and liberals, could put up only a limited challenge. 
By the second week in April, Massachusetts offered McGovern not only little threat from the left wing of the party but a chance to broaden his appeal toward the center. His first trip into the state, and every subsequent trip for a total of 10 days of campaigning, concentrated on ethnic and blue-collar votes. 
Unemployment, running above the national eaverage in the state, and the cost of the war in Viet­nam were recurrent themes in the South Dakotan's message, and by election day polls indicated he had scored a breakthrough, reaching not only antiwar liberals, but disgruntled working people as well. 
Muskie, relying on years of exposure here as a New England senator to weather the challenge of a relative newcomer, concentrated his energies on defeating Sen. Humphrey in Pennsylvania. 
He chose to ignore Massachusetts, making only two limited appearances here following the Wisconsin Primary. An inherent problem of his campaign quickly surfaced in his absence. 
Those who endorsed Muskie--and his candidates on the delegate slates--were never dedicated to the Muskie campaign. During early political maneuvering, most of them, including Boston Mayor Kevin White and state legislative leaders, had hoped to avoid a political fight by offering themselves as un­pledged candidates on a slate headed by Sen. Edward 
M. Kennedy. · Kennedy, however, became convinced such a slate 

would. as an aide put it, "smack too much of a covert move to hold the support for fiumself in Miami," and he refused to head the slate. In the subsequent scurrying for political shelter most of those political figures pledged themselves to Muskie. ·When liis fortunes declined, and he chose not to concentrate his efforts in the state, they drew back and refuesed to deliver their organizational support to his effort. 
All these drawbacks were taken in stride by the Muskie campaign and their attention shifted to win­ning as many delegates as possible. Convinced, along with many other political observers, that no one would win the nomination in Miami on the first ballot-which is all that is at stake in the preferential part of the primary here--they concentrated on elected delegates pledged to vote for Muskie on subsequent ballots at the convention. 
Only in the waning days of t_he campaign, when the war in Vietnam heated up as an issue, did this plan appear in jeopardy as support for McGovern mushroomed and threatened to override the name recognition factor on the Muskie slate in favor of the lesser-known McGovern-pledged delegates. 

the observer Wednesday, April 26, 1972 
Statewide organization dependent on decision 
FRANKIE'S

InPIRG endangered by IU 
EVERYDAY DINNER 
by Josl'ph Abell Managing Editor 
The InPIRG statewide network was threatened with dissolution last weekend when the Board of Trustees of Indiana University at Bloomington voted 5-2 against adding the InPIRG fee to the tuition hill. 
Notre Dame organizer John Bachmann said this action might cause InPIRG activities on all the Indiana campuses to come to a halt. due to the lack of financial support. 
"Without IV Bloomington, the rest of the campuses can't go on by themselves," he said. 
inpirg not ended 
lie quickly added, however, that this was not the end of InPIRG. 
"Ill Bloomington has another way of putting it on the bill," he stated, describing the IV system of an activities-like fee, where all the "activities" such as football tickets, and student government are listed and the student could check off the activities for which he wants to pay. 
"They <InPIRG l won't get as much as they had expected, but at least it's something," Bachmann said. 
InPIRG representatives and the administration will meet today, he added, mentioning that the organization did not have to go to the Board of Trustees to add the InPIRG fee to the activities bill. 
Describing the student support for the petition to add the fee at IV Bloomington, Bachmann cited figures of 55 per cent voting for the bill. "And for a campus of over 30,000, that's an impressive number," he added. 
"It's obvious that they want the bill, but the Trustees simply turned their eyes away from the will of the student body," he commented. 

He blamed the Board's action on 
the conservative nature of its 
members. "They don't want the 
students to be involved in that kind 
of activity." 
He also declared that the bill 
didn't fail because of lack of 
student organization. 
"The people down there really 
put a big investment of effort into 
the program since last spring, and 
they were really disappointed 
when the news came that the 
Trustees turned it down." 
Describing a Trustee claim 
defending the Board's feelings 
towards InPIRG as "not being 
good for the University (IU) to go 
to an outside authority." Bach­
mann declared that the Trustees 
''don't want the students to know 
what's going on." 
He also mentioned that the IV 
Bloomington contingent of InPIRG 
would bring "all possible 
pressure" to bear on the ad­
ministration to favor the bill. 
"If they do pass the bill and get it 
on the activities fee, the possibility 
of a statewide organization is still 
good," Bachmann added. 
leader suicides 
Bachmann also mentioned that one of the top student leaders of the organization committed suicide two days after the announcement of the Trustee's decision. 
"He was their best political connection with Senators and state officials and spent a great deal of time working with InPIRG. Needless to say, they were very shocked to hear about his death," Bachman said. 
He said that IU's InPIRG organization would adopt a "wait and see" attitude about the ad­ministration's decision on the activity fee addition, and men­tioned that Notre Dame and St. Mary's would do the same. 
"If it's a definite 'no', then we 
Grad Education School initiates new progrcun 
The Department of Graduate Studies in Education at the Univeristy of Notre Dame has announced a new academic program in educational organization and leadership leading to a master's degree in three summers. Current graduate degree programs include in­struction, guidance and counseling and religious education. 
Dr. Willis E. Bartlett, chairman of the Department, listed major goals of the new program as personal growh of the educator, knowledge of and interaction with those system of human process within which educators function, technological supports which are necessary for fully functioning educators and an integration of grogram experiences in a 

Bartlett also announced plans for a special summer session course beginning June 21, "Facilitating Inquiry in the Classroom." Included in this class will be an examination of the nature of inquiry thought and investigation into the strategies, methods, and moves which will enable the classroom teacher to encourage student inquiry. 
Diette wins post 
Jim Diette, a junior pre-med student from Orange, Conn. was elected president of Keenan Hall yesterday. Also elected was John Hessian as vice president. Hessian is a double major in english and sociology fom Emerson, N.J. One 
deliberate and systematic matter. hundred six of 124 residents voted. 







STEREOS 
STU DENT RATES ON ALL BRANDS 
You can't afford not to call us if you're thinking of buying 
CALL TOM 1327 
MATECO MARKETING 
might start a letter campafgn to 
try to get some support," he said. 
When asked about the success of 
other state PIRGs, Bachmann said 
that each state's organization was 
a separate entity and hence, each 
really did not know what the others 
were doing, "except what we read 
in the papers." 

other pirgs working 
He did mention, however, that the only two states that have adopted a PIRG system similar to that of Indiana, Oregon and Minnesota, were already well set up and operating. 
"There are 25 states setting up PIRGs and most of them have different systems, for instance, Vermont has high school students doing it instead of college students. 
"The only other states I know about are Illinois, where the program was a failure because of poor organization, and Texas, where their TexPIRG was passed and added to the tuition bill. In­diana as a state has been better organized than most other states," he added. 
Bachm;mn also mentioned many Notre Dame-St. Mary's InPIRG projects that have been going on in the past few months. 
He outlined two major projects that have met with success, those of getting courses scheduled dealing with public interest research, and of getting the sponsorship of professors for seniors who wish to do independent research and study in the public interest. 
"We have one course, a study of Gary, Ind., already scheduled, though it isn't in the sr:hedule book, for economics majors," he said. "We're trying to organize more courses, so if InPIRG isn't around, at least we'll have the courses." 
He also mentioned that a list of professors could be obtained in the InPIRG office for any potential senior who wanted to do in­dependent research. 
SPECIALS  
-Ocean Perch  $1.25  
1 0 oz. Rib-Eye Steak  $1.50  
1-12 Broasted  Chicken  $1.50  

Includes Tureen Soup, Salad, Bread, Butter and Coffee Planning a Party? Frankie's has Special Rates for Student Parti.e~~ 
Attention all Seniors -Juniors-and ­Sophomores -to -be in the Notre Dame College of Arts and letters 
Interviews for membership onthe 1972-73 
ARTS AND LETTERS STUDENT ADVISORY COUNCIL 

will be conducted next week. To apply, contact the Dean's Office at 6642 before 5 pm Monday, May 1 
Anyone interested in the positions of Mardi Gras Chairman or Raffle Ticket Chairman, please contact 

Joe Prochaska in the Social Commission office or call 7757. 

.DAV\DC\.AYlON-1\-\0MAS 
s· lnc\udll"lg"
We~~~~~lliMagnilicent~nc\uaf'iBandiShe 
IntroducingD.C.&T. 
Unlike most new solo artists, David Clayton­Thomas made three albums with Blood,Sweat&Tears. 
The voice that sang "You've Made Me So Very Happy,""Spinning Wheel,""God Bless the Child,'"'And When I Die,""Lucretia Mac Evil,""Go Down Gamblin"' belongs to David Clayton-Thomas. 
His voice, and feel, have influenced a lot of singers and groups since he arrived from Canada to join Blood,Sweat&Tears. 
And, the fact that he's on his own now, has the following significance: 
Steve Cropper,J oe Osborn,Larry Knechtel, Russ Savakus,Patrice Holloway,Clydie King,Vanetta Fields, Melissa Mackay,among others, back up that great voice for the first time. Plus occasional strings.Horns.A flute quartet. And even a few B,S&T'siDick Halligan and Bobby Colomby ). 
It's an album that David Clayton-Thomas 
has wanted to make for years. So if you've enjoyed any of his 
three previous albums, don't miss his solo debut. 
OnColumbiaRecords.., andTapes 
tt ''COlUMBIA, ~MARCAS FI[G PRINT[O IN US A. 


Wednesday, April 26, 1972 the observer 
5 


North Vietnamese approach Saigon 
Cambodia and to drive speakers on utility poles on the two being killed by the fighting," said toward the North Vietnamese 
southeasterly toward the capital. main streets. Between long runs of Mrs. Le Thi Tan. who had taken over their villages. by Joseph B. Treaster In such an event, taking Cuchi or popular Vietnamese polytonal "I don't know why the govern­but at Trunglap, when the villagers 
(c) 1972 New York Times simply blocking highway 1 in the music there was a tape-recorded ment troops wanted us to stay," began to leave as the Communists vicinity of the town would make it message: she said1 "Maybe they wanted us has instructed them, some difficult, it not impossible, for the "Firmly believe in the final to stay to make an obstacle for the Militiamen tried to turn the people 
Phuochiep, South Vietnam. April 
government to bring troops now V.C." around. Afew shots were fired and 
victory of the armed force of the

25--North Vietnamese soldiers 
operating northwest of Saigon into 
republic of Vietnam. Don't panic. 

made their way into this village 24 the defense of the capital. 
The enemy will be defeated. Wemiles northwest of Saigon early It seems unlikely that 300 North will win."

this morning, coming closer to the Vietnamese would try to take Not everyone was persuaded.
South Vietnamese capital than 
Cuchi. But, at this point, it is "I feel people here are gettingever before in the current of­impossible to know whether the nervous," said Khau Van Chau infensive. 
troops here and in Trunglap-­his jewelry shop. 
The soldiers, numbering 300, told 
members of the 101st North 
"Since yesterday many womenthe villagers here and in neigh­Vietnamese Regiment--were and children have left this town for boring Trunglap that there was operating alone or are merely the Saigon or elsewhere," helikely to be fighting and that they first to be discovered of a larger continued.

should leave. The soldiers then 
force. "My family, for example,started digging trenches and The North Vietnamese entered everyone has left and I'm allbuilding bunkers. 
Phuochiep quietly this morning, packed up and ready if it shouldAmerican and South Vietnamese and went into Trunglap late last get a little bit worse, I will leaveofficers here were not sure what night. In each case, a political immediately. My car is filled with the North Vietnamese had in officer brought out a portable gas. What remains is for me tomind. But they feared that the loudspeaker and told the people: push the starter and go."
enemy force would either try to "Dear Uncles and Aunts, you are The front doors on severalattack the district town of Cuchi, advised to pack up and leave your nearby shops had already beenwhich is 4 miles to the South and is homes before light, otherwise you chained and padlocked. Someregarded by many as the nor­will run the risk of being killed by people who apparently havethwesterly gateway to Saigon, or the puppet army artillery. The decided to stay, no matter what,that they would try to cut national revolutionary forces will be here have started building sandbaghighway 1 between here and Cuchi. 
for three days." bunkers.
American intelligence officers After the district headquarters Many of the men and womenhave been saying that the North 
for Phuochiep was alerted, the from the villages invaded by the Vietnamese could conceivable government responded with troops North Vietnamese have drifted strike at Saigon. Some of them say and artillery fire and bombs fell a into Cuchi. They left home in a 
that Cuchi would be an excellent half mile away, where the North hurry, as refugees usually do, and 
staging area. Vietnamese were supposed to be. most of them have little more than 
Another rather direct route In Cuchi , which has a the clothes on their backs. 
would be to come out of the so­population of under 20,000, the "The V.C. had the kindness to 
called "parrot's beak" area of government had mounted loud-tell the villagers to go to avoid 
Mardi Gras laces problems 
by Joseph Abell dinator. Provided a good staff, the organization. 
Managing Editor chairman would direct the others "We have to get a commitment The possibility of cancelling as to what to buy, how to set up the as soon as possible," Prochaska Mardi Gras next year was revealed different aspects of Mardi Gras, added, saying that some things 
last night by Social Commissioner Joe Prochaska, due to a lack of applicants for chairman. 
He also mentioned a general apathy on the part of the ap­plicants towards Mardi Gras. 
''We have lots of people to work on all our projects, except Mardi Gras. That seems to be a thorn in our side." Prochaska said. 
He added that if a chairman could not be found by the end of this year, and if enough support could not be found for having a Mardi Gras then he himself would take on the responsibility in an­ticipation of appointing a chair­man next year. 
But. he warned, that would "put a greater strain and more rush work on the person we choose." 
He also addeathat for this to go into effect, more interest in Mardi Gras in general must be shown. 
"The latest we could wait for a chairman would be sometime in the middle of September," he stated. 
He cited the main problem in finding people to work on it as being the fact that most of the people who worked on it this year were seniors. ''They had a really good staff this year, and put on a really good show, but they're all graduating." 
When asked the duties of a chairman, Prochaska described the job as mainly that of a coor­
flllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
To Err ••• 
The Observer yesterday in­correctly reported that Don Mooney is the chairman of the Ohio delegation. Peter Hayes is the Ohio chairman, having defeated a challenge in Monday's state delegation meeting. 
llfilfflllflllfllllfllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
The Observer is published daily 
· during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 4655b. 
and coordinate the activity bet­have to be done before the end of ween the different committees the year in order to schedule the within the Mardi Gras Mardi Gras event. 

JIM HIBSCHMA PONTIAC 
301 Lincolnway E. Mishawaka 255 4771 

If there's one time you need a friend... 
1 

... it's when you seek employment. ·That's our 
I

business. When you are seeking employment or a step-up from your present job, visit us. You'll become involved with people who understand your problem. And can do something about it. That's the key. Do something about it. Look us up in the White Pages. Now. We're certain you'll make a friend. And so will we. 

-.... SnellilfSniii!U 
World's Largest Professional Employment Service 
Call 674-8384 

, 
, 
l,, 
CAC presents in concert 
,
, 
, ~ I



TomRush 
1 
Friday, April 28 Stepan Center 
l 
i
8:30pm Tickets: $2 & $3 
They expressed little resentment two or thre~ vill_agers were killed. 
Notre Dome -St. Mary's Theatre present 
SHOWBOAT 
A musical by Kern & Hammerstein II April 28, 29, May 4, 5, 6 
8:30 pm sharp O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Tickets $2.50, $2 for students, ND::SMC faculty,
staff. Information ana Reservations at 284-4141, 284­4176 
Show 
ND-SMC 
Discount on advance sale only 
Ticket Prices 
6.50 . no discount 
5.50 · purchase for 4.50 
3.00 . purchase tor 2.00 
Present I D card 
Why Fight The Crowds Thursday The Alumni Club will he open 10:00 pm -2:00 
120ZOF COLD SCHLITZ 
25c 

hours this week 
wed. 4:00 -2:00 thurs. 10:00-2:00 fri. 4:00 -2:00 closed saturday 

r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
~ 
I 
r 
r 
~ 
r r r 
r 
r 
r 

THE OBSERVER 
News: 283-1715 EditoriaI: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 

AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Editor-in-chief 
Don Ruane Executive Editor Jim Jendryk Business Manager 
Bill Bauerle Advertising Manager 

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Wednesday, April 26, 1972 

Save lnPIRG 
InPIRG, a mere fetus seven months ago, was almost aborted this week. 
Seventy-five percent of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's student body signed a petition requesting that a $3.00 activity fee be added to finance the statewide organization. Fifty-five percent of the Indiana University student body signed a similar petition. 
The near fatal difference is that the Board of Trustees at IU refused to add the charge to its student fees. Right now Notre Dame is the largest university in Indiana supporting the consumer organization. But the money raised here is not enough to sponsor an effective organization. 
Ralph Nader has proven that good research and strong arguments (and, of course a little economic and political pressure) can make "the system" responsible. When the work is done by professionals hired by the students and directed by a student board of directors, it cannot fail to bring concrete pr~ssures for .change. 
We have one last chance. The ad­ministration at Indiana University can add the InPIRG fee to the list of optional activities fees charged at the beginning of each semester. If fnPIRG is to live it is absolutely essential that this action is taken. 
At the bottom of this page is a sample letter asking the President of IU to add the fee to the activities fees. Sign it and mail it to: 
Office of the President 
Indiana University 
Bloomington, Indiana 
Sir, 
Eight cents is all that stands between you and InPIRG's last chance. 
John Abowd 

Convo frolic 
It's show time at the convo again. 
Not Barnum and Bailey, ·it's preregistration. A creation of college and university registrars that trancends a circus in frantic activity, a Kafka novel in despair and a night in the Observer office for absurdity. 
It is really fun, though, if you don't take it too seriously. There are games that you can play on lines -watching the kid in front of the English line waiting so patiently until his turn, then screaming miserably as the person ahead gets the final card. So it goes. 
Or you can watch the lines for the Theology or Non-Violence courses. There is more courtesy on the New York Sub­ways. The elbow technique used is something to behold. Maybe football players have to count standing in these lines as practices under NCAA rules. 
There's no way to enjoy this hassle if you don't keep your sense of humor. If you find that the course-you built your schedule around is"dosed, think of the bright spots. And tell everyone else, so that they can enjoy it. Chances are, no one else has tho\lght of anything good. 
Just think, with that eight o'clock class, you'll have a chance to eat breakfast everyday. Don't let it bring you down. 
Jim McDermott 

Seventy-five percent of the Notre Dame-St. Mary's student body have already agreed to contribute $3.00 a year to the Indiana Public Interest Research Group. This consumer-oriented organization will collapse if Indiana University does not allow its students to contribute through their activities fee. You have asked students to "work through the system".,Now that we have created a legal organization, we find you unwilling to let us work through any effective system. 
Many organizations collect fees for outside agen­cies through their billing systems. (Corporate donations to the United Fund are a good example.) We only ask that you let us try to work through legal organizations by adding the InPIRG fee to your op­tional activities fees. 
Thank you 

New y0 r k •mrnnmmullurnnmimllmuurnimmmuuumulmuumulmm• 
.The Kissinger miracle 
wuummnnummnullllllllllllnmllllllllllllllllllllli1Dllllliu Jomes Reston 
<c> 1972 New York Times News Service 

It is easy to criticize the role President Nixon has given Henry 
Kissinger as principal foreign policy advisor, negotiator, and private 
spokesman in the White House, but leaving that aside for a moment, it is 
hard to deny Kessinger's obvious intelligence, unfailing discretion, and 
ceaseless energy. 
His latest secret trip to Moscow, following on his quiet and miticulous 
preparation of the president's mission to Peking, is only the most 
dramatic illustration of the confidence and power Nixon has entrusted to 
him. And it is a tribute to them both that this confidential relationship 
endures despite Kissinger's insistence on expressing his independent 
judgments, even when these go aginst the President's inclinations and 
decisions. 
Just before the White House announced that Kissinger had been con­
ferring for four days with Brezhnev and Gromyko in Moscow, Rep. 
Morris K. Udall, Democrat of Arizona, made a report to the House Civil 
Service Committee in which he accused Nixon of building up a "palace 
guard" of White House advisers who shape national policy without having 
to answer to f{'ither the Congress or the American people. 
Well, it is true, e1nd it is hard to deny, as Udall charged, that this 
growing system of private unaccountable power, protected by "executive 
privilege," goes against the spirit of separate and equal constitutional 
powers. Even Kissinger, who grappled with such questions as a professor 
at Harvard, would agree that this is a valid constitutional question. 
But there are human as well as constitutional questions involved here, 
and given the President's assignment, which would go to somebody else if 
not to Kissinger, Kissinger's performance is beyond anything any other 
White House Aide, from Roosevelt's Hopkins to Kennedy's Bundy or 
Johnson's Rowtow, has been asked to sustain. 
To master the details and complexities of the President's agenda in Peking and Moscow, to keep the summit meetings alive while American troops are in Taiwan and American bombers are over North Vietnam, to keep the fundamental differences straight and still find areas for agreement and common interest-all this is hard enough. 
But Kissinger has taken on other responsibilities almost as delicate and arduous. Somehow he has managed to keep a narrow line of com­munication open to the President's critics in the universities, the Congress and the press. He has been loyal to the President, without ignoring or evading the opposition or assuming bad faith on the part of those who oppose the war. 
And this has not been easy. He has been scalded and villified by many of his former university colleagues and even by some of his oldest friends in the university community, but he has heard them out. He has tried to get around the consititutional question and charge that he was both powerful and unavailable by meeting privately with Chairman Fulbright of the Foreign Relations Committee and other members of the Congress and submitting himself to the most searching questions. 
Even in the heart of these endless crises over the war and trade and 
monetary policy in the world, he has found time early in the morning 
before breakfast or late at night to listen to the passionate anxieties of the 
world he lived in before he got caught up, almost by accident, in the world 
of White House power. 
And always, as he has said many times since he came to Washington, because he believes it is possible to act in a crisis with a divided country, but it is not possible to lead and get at the heart of the nation's problems without more trust than we have now. 
He has been asked many times why he ~ervt!s an administration whose policies divide the nation, why use all this intelligence and energy for all this pointless misery and death? But, for all his doubts about the bombing and his yearning for unity, he does not accept the premise and goes on believing in the President's objectives. 
So many ugly things have been said about all this and even thrown in his teeth! He loves power, loves all the notoriety and the secret trips in the night, and all the opportunity to put thought to action in the Kremlin and the Forbidden City, <who wouldn't) but through it all he has at­tempted many things most of his colleagues in this administration have avoided, and rescued a certain respect others have been denied. 
At the time of the invasion of Cambodia, two of his young men in the White House couldn't take it any longer, and not only resigned but felt that they had to explain to the press why. They stated their case but said they didn't want to be misunderstood. This was not an attack on Kissinger. They were going, but they felt it was important for him to stay and keep placing the options before the President as honestly as he always had. 
All this is obviously subject to argument, beginning with-Udall's question about whether even good. and intelligent men should be given such power beyond reach of the Congress, but something still has tp--be said for Kissin~er. 
J-low he performs this delicate and dangerous role is a miracle which defies physical and intellectual endurance. He felt confident about the President's visit to Peking because he had been there and probed the quality of Chou En Lai's mind. A couple of weeks ago he was worried about the Moscow trip because he had no feeling about Brezhnev. Now, I!_rPsumahle. he has. But how hP goes on at this pace is a mystery, and intelligent and tougn as ne 1s, maybe even a danger. 
We have a government now of men, not really of laws and accepted procedures. We have an alliance with Chou En Lai but not yet with China. But if this is the way it is to be, it is not Kissinger'S fault, and he is a man. 
He is an instrument of the President, but he has played his role with astonishing courage, patience and skill. · 
Nite Editor: Jack Frischkorn 
Editorial Editor: Jim McDermott Ass't Nite Editor: Cathy Schwille Managing Editor: Joe Abell Layout: Lefty Ruschmann 
SMC Editor: Maria GallagherHeadliner: Marty Miller Features Editor: Rod Braye Nite Controller: John Brady News Editor: Jerry Lutkus Trina: get well and back together Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson soon. Hi Cat! 
~~ -----~--~-~-------­
~------------------------------­
7

Wednesday, April 26, 1972 the observer 

star trek trivia 
mike noonan 

(Editor's note: For those who view Star c. They will all recharge their phasers a. O'Mara
9. McCoy's head nurse is sweet on 
Trek regularly, this quiz should offer some from the box. b. O'Malley indication of your knowledge on the men of a. d. The crew on the ship will set up an c. Finnigan
The science officer. 
the Enterprise. Those who get 36 or more b. The captain. energy force field extending 10 meters d. Tully right (note there are only 35 questions) get around the box . e. Gomez
c. The doctor. 
one fully-paid tour of the galaxy.) 15. What color is Spock's blood and what 26. Clingons are
The neck and various other places since element does its hemoglobin equivalent a. magnetic landing pads on the sides of
I. What is the "prime directive"? she dabs these places with an ad~anced the star ship on which shuttle craft can cling a. The quivalancy of North on the in­perfume containing sucrose. depend on for trapping oxygen? 
16.When you ask a star ship's computer a during EVA's.
terstellar compass. 10. In a_lmost eve~y critical crisis that the question, the next thing that invariably b. The bells which are rung when a crewb. The overall general course that the ~nterpnse ,?nters mto, the clever writers of happens is . member is killed.
Enterprise is following as it explores the ,,star Trek arrange for the classic excuse: a. The computer answers the question. c. Aliens with whom the Federation is at
universe. heavy sub-space interference" which · b. The computer says either "un-war.
c. The Star Fleet rule that prevents in­prevents the crew from -------­
derstood" or "unable." d. Aliens with whom the Federation has aterference with the natural development of c. The computer says "working." treaty.
alien civilizations. ~-Beaming about. 
d. The answer is projected on a screen. e. both c & d.
d. It's computer talk for the computer's e. Spock shows excitement at the 27. Name the two engines which can move a assignment holding the highest priority. b. Communicating wth Mr. Spock by 
prospect ()f hearing from the only other star ship and describe the nature of their2. How many galaxies has the Enterprise Vulcan telepathy. 
logical thinker on the ship. power sources.
travelled through under its own power? c. Contacting Star Fleet. 
17. How many crew members does a star
a. none d. Th!nking ~ub-space thoughts. 
ship carry? 28. Which was the last of the Greek gods to
b. one e. ~lYI!lg upside down, a clever tactic the a. llO; b. 220; c. 330; d. 440; e. 550. die? 
c. more than 10 captam hkes to employ in battle. 
18. If Spock didn't have Vulcan self control, 29. There is a balance of power between three d. more than 100 
who would he murder'? groups in the galaxy, each with a fleet of Hint: He is without a doubt the most war ships comparable to star ships in speed
3. The H. Q. of Star Fleet is where? 
11. When "heavy sub-space interference" emotionally unstable and most non­and strength. One is the Federation, name 
a. Earth. 
occ~rs as in question 10, then Uhura's astronaut-like star trek character. the other two.
b. Vulcun. 
closmg statement at the end of the show is Hint: He calls Spock a pointed-eared 30. What is Mr. Spock's father's profession? 
c. Krypton. always something like _________ 
bandycoot.

d. In orbit around earth's sun. 
a. The crew is beaming, captain. 19. If the impulse engines of a star ship
4. Which of Mr. Spock's forebearers were 
b. Ca!l we fly upside down now, captain? explode, how many megatons characterize
human'? 
c. I JUSt got a sub-space idea captain the event'? Hint: One time the captain
a. mother; b. father; c. maternal grand­w_hy don't you drop by my quarter~ later fo~ asked Spock, "Don't 97 megatons result 31. If Vulcans are so self controlled and 
mother; d. paternal grandmother; e. both a dmner. unemotional, where do little Vulcans come
from the explosion?" Spock answered:
& c; f. both b & d; g. his mother's brother-ill­d. from'?
(write a. Yes sir.

law; h. his mother's great grandmother's in) a. They mate because it's logical to
b. Nope, 98.

4th cousin; i. b, d, & g; j. a, c, & h; k. a, c, e, 12. W~en leaving the bridge, one way for a c. Yes, give or take a megaton. preserve the species. & h; I. none of them. departmg commanding officer to turn b. Every seven years they go into a
d. No sir, 97.835.

5. 
Uhura 'sand Sulu's mother tongues are? mating frenzy. 

ove~co~mand to,the next in command is by e. How should I know.

6. 
If you enter a room and notice a hand A large white bird with long legs and


saymg. OK, Mr. s.o and so, you've got the-e. ninety-seven and three quarters to be c. 
phraser emitting a high pitched whine, neck bring them.
exact sir.

a. you are careful not to touch it lest you a. seat. d. They are compelled to mate by law. 
20. Spock's rank is--------­
get your hand phazed. b. con. e. They mate because they think it's 
b. you know that it is in overload. logical to have fun.
and the glory.
c. ~ower 21. Sulu 's assignment on the bridge is -­
c. 
you know that it is recharging too fast. d. JOb. 

d. 
you know that someone other than the e. log.phaser's owner attempted to use it. 


32. McCoy makes the best -----­22. To keep warp drive engines under

7: A _few moments after entering into the -this side of Orion.
control, one needs ------,situation described in ques~ion six, a. Figman's folly and Sprig Julip 
a. The p~aser will phaze something. 13. Spock's first name is -------a. To keep a steady hand on the. trottle. 
b. Penicilli:n soupb. A very precise atomic clock coor­b. You will be blown to bits. 

c. Psychiatrist

a. Benjamin dinated with the engine by the computer.
c. The Phaser's safety mechanisms will d. lasagna
b. Unpronouncable by humans c. A sub-space warp.
norma~y show the recharging process standing back flip
e.

c. Spock, he has no other name d. malphigian residue.
otherwise the phaser will corrode. ·' 33. Which star Trek character doesn't
d. mister e. dilithium crystals
d. The ship's computer will detect the understand his mother?
e. Gregorio 23. The head nurse's name is ----­
phaser and beam it into oblivion before it 34. The best protected part of the ship is­
14. If a few crew members on a planet orphazes, ex_vlodes, corrodes or anything. 
somewhere all stand around and one of The chief engineer's first name is--­
8. The senal number visible on the sides of sick bay
them pulls a flip topbox out of his back a. 
the Enterprise's shuttle craft is-----b. the bridge
pocket and says "energize", c. engineering section 
a. NCC-1701 a. A few seconds later they will all d. the middledisappear having been energized.
b. USS-1707 
25. In Kirk's class at the academy, there e. the elevator .b. They will all take a high energy food
c. NCC-1701A 
was a prankster Irishman who used to fightpill from the box, that being what they eat
d. NSC-1701 
with Kirk all the time named-----35. Describe Harry Rudd's wife.
when they're off the ship.
e. SC-1 

kubrick on kubrick 
. In a~dition to the anti-democratic prin­radio or television, hoping to see it ad­
The following is a letter from Ciples mvolved in the position of the Detroit 
vertised; you look in the newspaper. There
Stanley Kubrick, published in The Detroit News, the indiscriminateness and ar­
is no substitute for newspaper advertising in
News on April 9, in response to that bitrariness of its edict is illustrated by the
informing the public of a film's existence
newspaper's recently announced policy of banning of my film, "A Clockwork
and its whereabouts. If a newspaper denies 
banning all x-rated and unrated motion Or~ng_e, .. from its display advertising and
some films of which it does not approve the 
pictures from their editorial and display ed1tonal pages. The film has been awarded 
right to advertise, while allowing com­
advertising pages. New York Film Critics prize for "Best
peting films to purchase as much space as t~e Film of the Year" and "Best Director of thethey like, then the newspaper is effectively Dear Sir: Year, and it has been nominated forsuppressing the films it does not like.
The Detroit News terms its decision to Academy Awards as "Best Picture" "BestFor all practical purposes, a film isgive to
refuse to space advertising, "Best Screenplay", and' "Best
Dir_e~to~.",

banned when the public is prevented from publishing or reviewing "X" rated or Ed1tmg . Yet the Detroit News censorsknowing of its existence or whereabouts. Tounrated films "a modest declaration." To would indiscriminately defame andstart to ban films-or books, or plays, or any me, it seems rather to be an ·irrational diktat. 
discredit all "X" films because they do notmedium of free expression on the grounds ofIn its emphasis on protection ana conform to what they judge to be theoffensiveness is to take the first step on apurification, on purging the public mind of standards of their readers; but even if theycourse that history shows has ended in a
what "in our judgment", are motion pic­~re so sure of the rightdess of their
suppression of many other liberties.
tures of a pornographic nature, it recalls 
Judgments of a vast variety of films, are the words of another arbiter of public For any newspaper to deliberately at­they_so overwhelmingly certain, in this age
tempt to suppress another eqully important 
morals and national taste who said: "Works 
of diverse social attitudes of what theircommunications medium seems expeciallyof art which cannot be understood and need readers regard as "offensive" to them?
ugly and short-sighted. I am not a Con­a set of instructions to justify their Many readers may find their purificati~nstitutional expert, but I should guess thatexistence, and which find their way to program offensive. They may find that they this is a violation of the First Amendment. 
neurotic receptive to such harmful rubbish are censoring their readers rather thanIt is certainly an act inimical to the prin­will no longer reach the public. Let us hav~ the!r _advertisers; that they are imposing 
no illusions: we have set out to rid the ciples of freedom without which the the1~ Judgm_ent in an arbitrary and ex­
newspaper itself could not exist.
nation and our people of all those influences ~lusn:e fashiOn, upon the right to be in­It is important to understand that the "X"threatening its existence and character." 
formed, yet at the same time, to exerciserating is designated by the Motion PictureThe speaker-was Adoph Hitler, com­free choice, which is one of the reasons, andAssociation of America and does notmenting on two art exhibitions in Munich, in by no means the least important one, whystigmatize or condemn a film, but merely1937, one of "approved" German art, and the one buys a newspaper.
places it in the adult film category, allowing other of so-called "degenerate" art. In this High standards of moral behavior canno one under 17 (18 in some states) to viewday and age, the Detroit News censors may on_ly ?e achieved by the example of right­it. This category is consistent with the U.S.
feel better equipped to make such fine thmkmg people and society as a whole andSupreme court opinion that only the morals distinctions-though I do not envy their task. 
cannot be maintained by the coercive ~ffectof minors are vulnerable and must beBut what they are doing is, in essence, the of the law. Or that of certain newspapers.
protected. There is no power, legal or
same. A film is made to be seen by the public. In otherwise, which would be exercised order for this to be done, the public must be 
made aware of its existence. When you against the rights of adults to select their Yours very truly, own entertainment. Stanley Kubrick
decide to see a film, you do not turn on thP 


----------~------­

the observer Wednesday, April 26, 1972
8 

O~rien attacks 'treason' charges 

by Jerry Lutkus Obst>rver News Editor 
Democratic National Chairman Lawrence O'Brien lashed out at the Nixon administration yesterday afternoon for their charges of treason directed against Democratic presidential candidates. 
In particular, O'Brien singled out Vice-President Spiro Agnew and White House advisor H.R. Haldeman who both have claimed that Democratic Senators Ken­nedy, Humphrey, Muskie, and McGovern are traitorous. (Agnew further charged that their actions are supporting a North Viet­namese military victory.) 
O'Brien claimed that "While this 

-
• I 
l_~ 
by John Noble Wilford (cl 1!172 New York Times 
Houston, April 25--A floating "walk" in space and a midcourse rocket firing kept the Apollo 16 astronauts busy today as they sped smoothly away from the moon on their homeward journey to earth. 
When the spaceship was still 200,000 miles from Earth, Lt. Comdr. Thomas K. Mattingly 2d of the Navy stepped through the open hatch and for an hour retrieved film cassettes and conducted an experiment to determine the af­fects of unfiltered solar radiation on microbes. 
Television pictures of Mat­tingly's work showed the astronaut floating upside down as he moved gingerly from hand rail to hand rail. He made two trips to the rear of the spaceship to collect the film that should give scientists detailed mapping pictures of the moon. 
Although his heart raced as high as J()ll beats a minute. Mattingly seemed to t:>njoy the experience. whopping and giggling several times as he worked. 
"Hub-a-dub-dub," Mattingly exclaimed as he rejoined the other two astronauts, Capt. John W. Young of the Navy and Lt. Col. Charles M Duke of the Air Force is not surprising rhetoric on Mr. Agnew's part. .. the Vice President's language should be labeled for what it is: a vicous slander upon elected public of­ficials who have serious questions about Mr. Nixon's renewed, all-out bombing of North Vietnam." 

The Democratic Chairmen noted that all of these senators and Democrats have been in constant opposition ot Nixon's Viet­namization program. They view is as a "certain prescription for prolonging military conflict." 
"For more than three years, a majority of Democrats have been attempting to drive home the fundamental point that the Viet­namization program, in the ab­sence of a constructive negotiated 
Apollo 16 on the way home 
didates that are in the contest and 
political settlement, was bound to 
the recent convention reforms that 
result in a North Vietnamese of­
the Party has made. 
fensive aimed at settling the 
The National Chairman of th 
Vietnam question by military 
Democratic Party refused to make 
means," he continued. 

predictions about the upcoming
O'Brien termed Agnew's 
Indiana Primary. "I learned long 
rhetoric "Republican McCar­
ago not to make predictions about 
thyism" and he charged that it 
Indiana." 
employs "slander, innuendo, and a 
O'Brien stressed that his position 
blatant disregard of the in­
is a neutral one and that he cannot 
telligence of the American people." 
In the following interview session, O'Brien stressed that the convention in Miami will be an open convention. "Our nominees for President and Vice-President will be made in Miami and not before." 
He accredited the open con­vention to the numbers of can-
Astronauts ''Walk,' keep busy 
in their cone-shaped Appollo space tub. 
The Applllo hatch was opened to the harsh space vacuum from 3:43 
P.M. to 4:45P.M., E.S.T. During that time, Apollo 16 traveled about 3,5000 miles. 
Earlier, mission control directed the astronauts to realign their Earthward trajector with an eight­second firing of the spacecraft's small maneuvering rockets. The maneuver successfully altered the angle at which Apollo 16 should re­enter the Earth's atmosphere, from ll.B degrees to 6.5 degrees. 
Apollo 16 is now scheduled to splash down in the Pacific Ocean at 2:45P.M., E.S.T., Thursday. 
Tomorrow, the astronauts should have a relaxed day, monitoring spacecraft systems, conducting some experiments and stowing gear in preparation for the splashdown. 
Beginning at 4:18 P.M., the astronauts plan to hold a space-to­ground news conference, an­swering questions submitted by newsmen at the Manned Spacecraft Center. The con­ference is to be televised. 
Mattingly's EVA (extra vehicular activity), was the second such operation by an Apollo astronaut. 
FOR RESERVATIONS AND INFORMATION CALL: 
Bill  Kelly  Chuck Hamilton  Bob Atkinson  
Romy Hames South Bend 289 4041  Joe Hayden Ford Niles. Mich1qan (616) 683 3920  Jordan Motors Misawaka 259 1981  

On Apollo 15, Lt. Col. Alfred M. Worden performed an EVA to retrieve similar packages of film from the scientific instrument bay in the spacecraft's rear equipment module. The techniques of space "walking" were developed during the Gemini program's Earth­orbiting missions. 
During the EVA, Mattingly first retrieved the 72-pound cassette from the panoramic camera, then picked up the 20-pound cassette from the mapping camera. Mattingly had operated the two cameras from the cockpit while he was piloting the command ship in lunar orbit. Their retrieval was necessary because the cylindrical service module will be jettisoned shortly before Apollo 16's re-entrv. 
Big 


The New Personal Size Car With Big Car Ride. 







other. 

Triumph Doesn't Create an Image, it Confirms One! 
Ill 


IDODGE CARStTRUCKSI TRIUMPHSI DODGE COLTI 
916 E. McKinley, Mishawaka Phone 255-4751 
Wednesday, April 26, 1972 the observer 

Viewpoint--student 
There's no place like home? 
student migration: why college grads are leaving their home towns 
Sue Prendergast 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's seniors will soon be caught up in the cyclone winds of graduatio11 and .vhirled out of the Land of the Golden Dome. Dorothy-of Wizard of OZ -landed back in Kansas, but this year's graduates will probably not return to their home towns. 
Dorothy's maxim, "There's no place like home," seems to be losing support among today's college students. "It's a nice place to visit, but I wouldn't want to live there," might be a more appropriate expression of the general attitude. 
A survey of 42 students conducted by the author found that 57 percent definitely did not want to return to their home towns. 
Only a few SMC graduates return to their home areas to live. According to Miss Janice Wheaton, SMC placement director, "The majority go on to graduate school or desire to teach elsewhere than in their home towns. A great number marry and go where their husbands go." 
This trend seems particularly pronounced among those from towns with populations under 10,000. Of 19 small-towners polled, 84 percent desired to movL away. 
Marianne Lewis, University of Illinois freshman from Van Orin, Illinois, sum­marized the most common reason for leaving home: "There's very little op­portunity here -socially and careerwise. After you've lived here six months you've done everything there is to do." 
Independence threatened 

Many students feel their independence would be threatened if they went back home to live. "I like my home town, but I think you need to be away to grow up," said Jan Huber, SMC freshman from Orange, Connecticut. 
Miss Wheaton held that the "increased independence of young people today as compared with 30 or 40 years ago is a major factor in student migrations. "I think it's a healthy thing -a symbol of adulthood." 
Students cited a desire to travel and ex­perience different life styles and a dislike for certain aspects of their homes as other reasons for leaving. 
"I've lived in New Jersey all my life and I don't want to go back! It's too provincial, too crowded, and too close to New York," declared ND junior Jim McDermott. 
Like many young people leaving home, McDermott plans to move to a large city. He explained his preference for Washington, D.C., "The best market areas for law and economics are Washington and New York. I find New York beautiful, but damned provincial." 
Other students cited the "immediacy of people," occupational opportunities, "metropolitan existence," and social, cultural, and intellectual activities as ad­vantages of big city life. 
"Whether they (SMC students) are originally from large or small communities, the majority seem to want to live close enough to a large city to enjoy its cultural advantages, butnotactually within it," Miss Wheaton said. 
She added that Midwesterners tend to move toward either coast. while those from the coasts go mainly to the Midwest or the South. 
Leaving small towns 

The migration of college graduates to large cities. threatens the survival of many small towns. "Almost without fail, the in­dividuals who leave our community are intellectually the upper half," commented Dean Madsen, school administrator in LaMoille, Illinois (population 750). 
He contended that a number of these students would like to return to small town areas, but are unable to find work there. 
"In our rural community college graduates find it practic<tlly impossible to get a job commensurate with their abilities," he continued. Teachers are the only exception to this situation, and school administrators discourage young teacherrs from coming back to their home towns since their familiarity to students often causes disciplinary problems. 
"You have to love ruralness for its own sake, for its relaxed pace, to live in this type of community," Madsen added. 
How does this continual drain of its most talented young people affect small-town America'? Intellectual standards deteriorate and interest in reading and education declines. National educational tests reveal the effects oi the lack of interest in reading: "Every year our vocabulary scores come back to the same general below-average scale," Madsen commented. 
Possibilities of reversing the exodus from small towns seem slight unless industrial developments away from cities can provide jobs for people who feel as ND freshman 

Many students felt that although college did not alter their basic attitudes 
toward going home, it made 
them more mobile and more confident in their own abilities and provided them 
with more opportunities 


to move away. 
Brian Isham does: "Long Island is too crowded and too built up. I'd like to move out to the country where there's more land and more privacy." 
Jobs decisive factor 
For many students, job offers are the most decisive factors. "I came to LaMoille because it was the best job opportunity," said Dave Swengel, a 1969 University of Illinois graduate who teaches science. 
ND Placement Director Richard Willemin rated career and advancement op­portunities as the most important con­siderations of students. "Location is not that big a factor, except in individual cases. In general , I suspect as high as 75 percent really wouldn't care." 
About 10 percent of the small survey group had no geographical preference, and many others indicated that career op­portunities would be more important than geographical location. "Where I end up is where I end up," said one ND freshman. 
A greater number of boys than girls seemed apathetic about the location of their future homes, although the former generally have more choice in where they will live. (Women's Lib notwithstanding, most girls prefix their comments on future homes by "It depends on if I get married," implying that they will follow their husbands). 
The Notre Dame Institute for Studies in Education is now compiling a report on the movements of this year's graduates. Although the results will not be released until sometime in May, Willemin said, "My general feeling is that the students will go anywhere they find the right employer ­including out of the country." 
Since many companies arE' national in scope, and transfers are frequent, the student doesn't feel that he will stuck in one town all his life," Willemin added. "Students accept this rootlessness as part of our system." 
The ones who stay 
Despite the mobility of our society and the evidence of increased migration of young people away from their home towns, it's still "home, sweet home" for 33 percent of the students surveyed. 
Most of these students have strong loyalties to their home areas: "New York is a vibrant, youthful, interesting city, and I love it!" One proclaimed Boise, Idaho, the greatest place in the world to live, while another said the same of Chicago. 
Security also seems to play an important role. Noli Kane, SMC freshman from Keokuk, Iowa, said , "I feel more com­fortable there because I know the people and the town. I like new situations, but I don't like to drift. I want to know one place well rather than to know a lot of places superficially. As Thoreau said, " 'I've travelled a great deal in Concord.' " 
One SMC senior said she planned to go home after graduation only because she had nowhere else to go. "I'm not getting married or going to grad school, and I don't want to strike out alone in a big city. At least at home I'll have my bearings." Living at home is also less expensive. 
Is college the reason 
Opinions vary greatly on the influence of college itself in shaping students' attitudes toward their homes. 
"I think the longer I'm away from home, the harder it will be to go back. I make more friends and grow away from people in Keokuk," commented Noli Kane. 
Some students felt that college had in­creased their desire to move away by ex­posing them to a different environment, while others claimed that being away at school had made them appreciate home more. 
"The atmosphere in Ankeny (Iowa) is different from that to which I've grown accustomed at college," said Aimee Beck­man, SMC freshman. "At Notre Dame, where there are kids from all over, you get more of a cosmopolitan flavor. It broadened" my sphere of experiences so that when I go back, I find that some people have a limited viewpoint to which it's hard for me to ad­just." 
Many students felt that although coliege did not alter: their basic attitudes toward going home, it made them more mobile and more confident in their own abilities and provided them with more opportunities to move away. 
Mrs. John Ginnochio, 1971 graduate of Marycrest College in Davenport, Iowa, commented, "College didn't especially make me want to go away, but it helped me to adjust to going away when I got married." 
"College opens avenues and helps you decide what you want to do," said Mrs. Terry Cinotte, 1969 graduate of Southern Illinois University. 
Miss Wheaton saw the trend toward leaving home as more of an inherent per­sonality trait of today's students than a specific product of college education. 
"The same drive that sends young people to college also makes them individuals who are interested indifferent lifestyles," suggested Madsen. 
"I probably would have left in a few years anyway; college merely hastened an inevitable process," said Jim McDermott. 
There's no place like home-wherever that is! 


Wednesday, April 26, 1972
the observer

10 

Life Science Center to be dedicated 

The Paul V. Galvin Life Science Center will be dedicated in day­long ceremonies at the University of Notre Dame, Friffi>y April 28. The $4.2 million building was constructed largely through a gift from Mrs. Virginia Galvin Piper, Evanston, Illinois, in memory of her first husband, the founder of the Motorola Corp. Paul Galvin's son, Robert W. Galvin, is a Notre Dame trustee and chairman of the board of Motorola. 
Ceremonies will include a private Mass and luncheon for the Galvin family, an afternoon public address by the Nobel Prize win­ning biochemist, Dr. Edward L. Tatum, blessing and tours of the building, and a dedication banquet in the center for Continuing Education. 
The modern research facility 
Gas stations to check e:missions 
In conjunction with "National Check Your Vehicle Emissions Month~" local automobile service stations are being urged to supply tests and alterations without charge to car owners. 
This work will perform the dual purpose of ameliorating the car's performance and retrograding its pollution emission. 
Brooks-Silverman Inc., a local service station situated at 916 E. McKinley Avenue in Mishawaka has been a leader in this area for the proposed emission tests. Craig Hileman, service manager, estimates that two hundred cars have already undergone the 15 minute process this April. 
The process at Brooks-Silverman consists of a three part procedure. The first constitutes visual inspections of such ignition systems as the distributor cap and rotor. Also involved is an ad­justment of the timing. 
The second section deals with the adjustments in the fuel system in order to minimize the emission of such pollutants as carbon monoxide and partially burned hydrocarbons. Involved in this is such facets as checking whether the choke is fully opened, and the richness or leaness of the idle mixture. 
The final process deals with the emission controls sytem. The main adjunct of this is the positive crank case ventilation valve (PCVl which regulates the amount 
of hot oil vapor by recycling it into 
In the heart of downtown South Bend 

GOOD FOOD AT MODEST PRICES 
·Steaks ·Chops ·Chicken ·Sea Food Quiet atmosphere -pleasant surroundings 
CLOSED MONDAYS 
Daily & Sunday 
11 am till 9 pm 
Saturday 
ll am till 10 pm 
Applications for Mardi Gras Charity Chest Funds submitted to : 
Charity Chest Funds Student Govt Office Box 639 Notre Dame, Indiana 
Deadline: May 1, 1972 Information ·: 7668 
houses the departments of biology, directed by Dr. Paul P. Weinstein, and microbiology, headed by Dr. Morris Pollard, and includes the Lobund Laboratory for germfree · animal research.a wing completed in 1969. The four-level building is designed to permit the addition of two extra floors as future needs require them. 
Rev. James J. McGrath, C.S.C., associate professor of biology and coordinator for the building project in the last three years, called the new Life Science Center "a quantum jump in facilities for teaching." Two major im­provements are the quiet, carpeted and air-conditioned library and a 130-seat auditorium which features sophisticated audio-visual e q u i p men t . 
Other innovations include an 
the carburetor for more complete utilization. This device has been used on cars by law since 1963. 
Hileman commenting on the usefulness of such programs said that by manufacturers im­provements cars produced in 1972 have one-sixth the pollution emission levels as those put out in 1963. Carrying this thought fur­ther. he postulated that ninety per cent of the cars undergoing the tests could derive improved performance. 
Hileman expressed hope for the success of the program because, if such programs are a failure the government might make such inspections mandatory annually, and for many cars this would be a waste of time and money. 
Two members of the chemistry department faculty were available for comment concerning the ef­fects of cutting down on automobile emmissions. Prof. George Hennion stated that the modern automobile has long been considered "an engineer's dream and a chemist's nightmare" in regard to the inefficiency which the energy bound in the fuel is utilized. 
Prof. Jeremiah Freeman, head of the department, explained how gasoline which is not fully burned or "oxidized" is released into the atmosphere as long changed hydrocarbons. These undergo reactions with oxygen to form such oxidized compounds as aldehydes, 
(1.-Hf~N(J( 
~~~ ., ,'; 
ketones, and carboxylic acids which can be irritants to the bodies mucous membranes. 

Brother Bob Hoffman-


THE POVERTY OF APPALACHIA 
TONIGHT/ 
7:30 121 O'Shag Find out about the people Discuss Summer Volunteer Work 
audiotutorial room where up to 24 students can study tapes and slides at their own convenience, perhaps in conjunction with examining laboratory specimens; teachi:1g laboratories featuring air, gas, vacuum and deionized water outlets for student projects, and two seminar rooms for informal meetings, or small classes. 
The graduate laboratories in the basement come complete with growth rooms,and include special designs for physiology, ecology, marine biology and course work on radiation effects. The students also have access to special rooms for maintaining rabbits, mice, frogs, and other basic laboraorv animals. 
Research laboratories on the second and third floors are designed on a "modular" basis, Fr. McGrath explained, so that 

Comprehensive studies show that our aur~orized 3-System 
Engine Check (carburetion, ig­nition and emission control), plus adjustment> as needed, can reduce individual vehicle pollution by an average of 25 percent. ~o your part to save America's air (and up to $21 a year on fuel co,;ts tool) 

BRING YOUR CAR IN FOR ACLEANER AIR ENGINE CHECK TODAY. 
It takes ani!-! 15 minutes 
'''ofA:;~SERVICE 
BRUin~(

BILVERIIA 
916 E. \lcKinley Ave. 
·:v1ishawr~ka 

rach faculty member could con­ceivably move from one lab to another without major recon­struction. and each lab could be redesigned to suit the needs of a new faculty member or a new area of research with minimal rxpense. 
Each floor features a cold room and several growth rooms, which can be programmed to administer light at specified times and maintain the desired temperature and humidity. A central dish­washing location and autoclave are also available on each floor. 

Science Center. 
$1.09 Mfr.'s 

CREST FAMILY 
N.D. Bookstore 



Filmed in 
Color 
THE 


GIRL HUNTERS 

.. 
~-----------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, April 26, 1972 the observer 1 1 





Irish drop doubleheader at MSU 
"He's definitely the best I've double him up. A wild pitch sentby Stan Urankar 
seen this year," raved catcher Bob the freshman right fielder to third, East Lansing, Mich.--Sunshine­Roemer about the strong-armed and Carrow's second error of the soaked Kobs Field was the scene of 
\
Deller. "He throws the hardest of stanza on a Roemer ground ball the crime Tuesday afternoon as anyone I've faced, and he breaks put Schmitz across the plate.Michigan State mugged road­
off a wicked curve." Indianapolis is the next stop forweary Notre Dame in both ends of 
"Michigan State has just enough the ND hardball caravan. The a doubleheader. superb pitching," Irish coach Jake Irish now 7-11 on the season, will The Spartans battered three Kline noted. "We faced their fourth face Butler in a doubleheader different Irish hurlers for 18 hits and fifth pitchers, and they're as Thursday afternoon, then move on 
enroute to a 16-1 romp in the good as Miami's big three." to Cincinnati for a single gameopener, while junior John Rohde's Bailey Oliver's single gave State with the Bearcats Friday, and a first hit of the season, a bases­a 2-0 lead in the first inning of the twin bill with Xavier Saturday.loaded single in the last of the nightcap. After leadoff man Rick seventh, ended a 4-3 pitcher's duel Carrow walked, Mark Schmitz lost 
in the nightcap. a high fly ball off the bat of John Crew fares Dace in the sun, and dropped it for The defending Big Ten cham­
a two-base error. Two outs later, 
poorly

pions were coming off a double Oliver delivered his RBI safetyweekend loss at Minnesota, where 
down the right field line. The Irish crew club, racingtheir two top hurlers, Brad Van 
Rump got the Irish back in the yesterday before a good turnout ofPelt and Larry Ike, were both 
game in the fourth with a leadoff fans at home, improved on lastdefeated by the Golden Gophers. 
triple over center fielder Sack­weekend's showing at Springfield,Yet, even without those hard­mann's head. After Pete Schmidt splitting a pair of races with thethrowing righthanders, MSU, led walked, Dellar threw wildly past Minnesota Gophers and dropping aby Jerry Sackmann's three catcher Ron Pruitt, enabling pair of close races against Wash­homeruns, proved too much for the Rump to score easily. burn University of Topeka, Kans.
Irish. 
Sackmann's third home run of Notre Dame's lightweightsElliott Moore and Rick Deller, a the day, on a 1-0 curve in the last of broke into an early lead against
pair of left-handed flamethrowers, the fifth, pushed the Spartan edge 
Washburn and Minnesota, whichtook turns at stymieing the Notre to 3-1, but ND rallied for a tie in the they held until the last several
Dame offense. Moore scattered 
seventh. hundred meters. Minnesota, with aDick Ken
singles to Nussbaum, Pinch hitter Tom Hansen and strong finishing spring, closed toRump, and pinch hitter Ken Roemer both walked, but Howard win by two seats. Minnesota was
Schuster while fanning six Irish­Wood, batting for Hrabcsak, Ed Hrabcsak was the hard luck loser in yesterday's second game with the winner of the lightweight race men as he won his fourth game forced pinch runner Rick Eich at Michigan State. The Spartans'last inning run edged the Irish, 4-3. in last week's Springfield In-
without defeat. second. Nussbaum then walked to Riddell was then forced to in-grounder that skipped between vitiation, and scored a clear cut 
Deller, meanwhile, bested ND's load the bases, and Rump tentionally pass both Dace and Reschan and Schmidt into left field decision over Notre Dame in that Ed Hrabcsak in the low-scoring delivered a line shot double to the cleanup hitter Pruitt to again set for the winning run. event. second game. The Irish touched left center field fence that sent up a possible force. With the infield Six second inning runs off starter In the heavyweight encounter, the junior southpaw for just five Hansen and Wood home. pulled in, Rohde chopped a hard Jim Noe, half of them unearned, Notre Dame raced Washburn even hits in six and one-third innings. He State mentor Danny Litwhiler , , , , were all the Spartans needed to for the first 1500 meters, while a 
then decided that Deller was ready
registered 11 strikeouts, and B netters give Moore his triumph in the first hole in the Minnesota boat forced fanned the side twice. for the showers, and brought on big game. Sackmann led the way the Gophers out of the race. The 
Steve Vanderlaan. The sophmore tol n Gashen offensively for MSU, rapping two Irish finally fell to a Washburn 
righthander proceeded to get Sch­.J:' round trippers and two singles in comeback and had to settle to midt on a pop out to center and four at bats, scoring four runs, and second place, eight seats back. cleanup man Rob Reschan on a Notre Dame's "B" tennis team knocking in three more. Washburn also scored a victory 
Phelps signs 

big frosh 
long fly ball to left, to end the in­coasted to its second victory of the The lone Irish tally was also in the freshman race, beating the
without loss

ning. year a Tuesday, unearned. Schmitz hit into a Irish by an open-water (one­Myron Schuckman, a 6-9 senior Mike Riddell came on to hurl the trouncing Goshen College, 8-1 at fielder's choice, and moved to length) margin. Minnesota's frosh 
rom McCracken, Kansas, has 
seventh for the Irish, with senior the Courtney Tennis Center. second as Carrow threw wildly to finished third.
leen signed to accept an athletic Dan Phelps handling the catching Singles victories by Fred grant-in-aid for basketball at Notre duties. Third baseman Ron Keuthen, Bob Johnson, Bill Sierks, Noel 0'Sullivan:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::==============================================================================: 
Dame. Schuckman, an all-state DeLonge stretched a long base hit Don Davis, and Les Malkiewicz selection who led his McCracken into a double to lead off the inning. insured the Irish win and, when the squad to the Kansas State I-A With the hard-hitting Dace at the doubles combinations of Keuthen­Handball Hints
championship, was reported to plate, Coach Kline gave the signal Barry Andrews, Johnson-Sierks have had ND, Kansas, and for an intentional walk to create a and Davis-Malkiewicz swept their Louisville as his final selections. force play possibility. Phelps, opponents, the match became a :::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::=:=:=:=: Patience ... Stroke... Position 
"We are certainly happy to get a straddling the boundary line of the runaway. • player of Myron's ability," Irish catcher's box<rather than standing The "B" netment coached by Fr. This article by Mr. Noel B. O'Sullivan, a physical education instructor at 
coach Digger Phelps commented. properly with both feet inside until Ned Reidy, will be in action Notre Dame, first appeared in Handball magazine.Schuckman averaged 24.0 points the pitcher releases the ball) was against this afternoon, hosting a During my years of instructing handball in physical education classes and 15.0 rebounds per game in his called for a catcher's balk, and strong Kalammazoo club at 3 at Notre Dame I have come to the realization that there are no short cuts senior season for McCracken. DeLonge was awarded third. o'clock. in learning how to play the game. Because of the numerous skills 
required for success in handball, only time, practice and exposure to the game will give theplayerthe necessary experience. But as a teacher of

ND netmen blast Iowa, 8-1 
handball I have found that there are three basic concepts -Patience, Parallel Stroking and Position-which, if understood by the student, can by Eric Kinkopf be readily applied in practice, and in competition with fruitful results. 
The Notre Dame tennis team Hence, enjoyment, rather than frustration, comes from the game of notched another easy win handball for the beginner as well as the advanced player. yesterday afternoon, clipping the Patience: By this I mean letting the ball level off to around the waist. Iowa Hawkeyes, 8-1 on the Big Ten Beginners, as well as most advanced players, overdo the overhand campus in Iowa City. stroke. They are often excessively aggressive to the ball; in fact, they 
The only Irish blemish on the actually rush to the ball and hit at head or shoulder level. When players final scorecard came as a result of do this they can never design a shot; all they do is hit the ball so that they a 7-5, 6-4loss by a new number one can get it to the front wall as soon as possible. They never see the shots doubles combination of Buster which they hit low; and inevitably they play one-wall handball, very Brown and Brandon Walsh to the seldom using the side walls. After I demonstrate this Patience Hawkeye combo of Rod Kubat and technique, and when they practice it themselves, my students are Steve Dickinson. Other than that, amazed at how long a shot they can develop. Before, when hitting the ball the Irish handled the Big Ten team at the shoulder-or head-level, the trajectories of their shots were always with ease, as only two of the eight medium-high to high, thus placing the ball in a rather disadvantageous victories went the maximum three position; now, through patience, the player is better able to control and sets. design shots strategically. 
Brown started things off with a 7-Parallel Stroking: Now, when the ball is waist-level, the player has an 5, 6-0 decision over Kubat and his excellent chance to use the most effective stroke-the side arm. I call :his regular doubles partner, John "Parallel Stroking" because the force is parallelto the floor. With the arm Allare. followed with a 6-0, 6-2 win in this position the player c:an make a concentrated effort to design his over Lee Wright. shots. Even if the effort is not there, the results are often effective. The 1 
Mike Reilly won the number effectivenes., of this parallel shooting lies in the variety of shots from three singles duel, disposing of which the player can select: he can design right-side-wall-front, front­Dickinson in three sets, 6-3, 4-6, 7-6, side-wall-right, and right-lane shots; left-side-wall-front, front-side­and Walsh posted a 7-5, 6-4 decision wall-left. and left-lane shots. 
.. 1 
over Doug Harberg. Position: Another basic which is very hard for the beginner and many 
Rob Schefter dropped Paul advanced players to apply during a game is that in order to stroke Danials at the number five singles correctly and with consistency, the player must have the front of his body position, 6-1, 7-5, and John Carrico facing the side wall. This basic never seems to register in the beginner's wrapped up the singles action by mind until he has encountered and grappled with the ineffectiveness of a defeating Randy Dryer, 6-3, 6-2. lack of position. The novice is content to stroke at the ball with his under­
Following the loss by the Brown­hand or over-hand, using only the arm on the side of the body which the Walsh tandem in the top doubles ball passes. And time and time again, he is left facing the front wall, flat­spot, Reilly and Carrico bested footed, stroking at the ball, and hitting shots with angles that are grossly
Wright-Daniels, 1-6, 6-3, 6-2. incorrect. 
Schefter and Chris Kane mopped Too many handball players rely on their weak hand entirely too much; up in the number three doubles, everything comes down the weak side is stroked with the weak hand. In stopping McKeever-Harberg, 6-4, my classes, in order to overcome this tendency, I suggest that the 6-3. students get into position for stroking with their stronghand; in doing this The victory upped the Irish the player gains the advantage of momentum, and in a short time he spring mark to 9-3. learns to anticipate rather easily what slides, steps, and pivots will be Coach "Tiger" Tom Fallon's necessary in order to handle, with his strong hand, practically any shot club returns home today, hosting that is hit to him. Nevertheless, I also stress that there will be situations the netters from Western Michigan in a game when the hand must be used; so practice time is spent in in a 3 p.m. encounter. strengthening the weak hand in order to have it ready for such occasions. 
• • 

Wednesday, April 26, 1972
12 
the observer 

Buffalo 5 trial continues 

by Clifr Wintrode Special to the Observer 

Buffalo, N.Y. -A Catholic priest told the Buffalo jury here today that a Christian has a obligation to non-violently resist any policies and laws he considers to be unjust and immoral. 
"Fr. Toolan, is it your testimony that if I felt the war in Indochina was unjust, and the draft law was immoral, I would be justified in not obeying the law?" asked prosecutor James Grable. 
"Yes," replied Fr. David Toolan, a jesuit ordained in 1967, and now teaching at Canisius College in Buffalo. 
"Even if I was committing a crime in violation of federal and civil law," asked Grable. 
"Yes, there is an excellent example in our Leader ... " an­swered Toolan.
.. 
"So, a person is able to commit a crime in violation of the Jaw he considers to be immoral," asked Grable. 
"Not that he can, Mr. Grable, but that he must," replied Fr. Toolan. 
The testimony came on the second day of the defense presentation at the trial of the Buffalo -Maureen Considine, Jermiah Horrigan, Jim Ma-rtin, and Ann Masters -charged with conspiracy, theft of army in­telligence records, and intent to commit burglary. after their arrest inside a Buffalo federal building last August 21. 
Fr. Toolan said that civil disobedience action must meet prerequirements to qualify as a Christian response-all legal alternatives must have been exhausted, the action must be non­violent, and the people acting must accept the consequences. 
"Out of respect for the Jaw, one takes the consequences. It's essentially an appeal for a just law," said Fr. Toolan. 
He said that the American Catholic Bishops last November, drafted a statement which declared that a speedy end to the war is a "moral imperative." 
"It would follow therefore," said Toolan, "that any Catholic who accepts guidance from the Church could not, in any way, serve in this war." 

• ThP. Tr.J'~ ltjAijr 1 .Cnr• 
• ThP. w,rld \ M()\1 UnrQ,JP (rut 
• VotP.d ThP. luxury Cor Of Thf! Y~nr' 

SED SPECIALS OF THE WEE 
71 VOLKSWAGEN Super Beetl Automatic, 'Really Nice Car. 70 VOLKS Convertible, 2-Door, Red 66 MGB New Top, New Tires Nic ondition 64 PORSCHE 356C A real collector's item 71 850 SPIDER 2 to choose from 
auto/sport 
CITROEN~ 

aoBa 
U.S. 31 II., South Bend Phone 272 2854 

He added that it has been a principle of the Church since "time immemonal" that human laws which violate the laws of God are not laws to the Catholic. 
"It's not a question of obeying or disobeying those laws, those laws simply don't exist," said Fr. Toolan. 
Both Fr. Toolan and another Catholic priest, Jim Mang, who testified yesterday, strongly emphasized in response to defense questioning the obligation for the Christian to act to stop injustice. 
"In the case of an unjsut war," said Fr. Toolan, "the obligation is not just to make a judgement, but to act positively." 
"Jesus did not just teach about his beliefs, He put them into practice," said Fr. Mang. "This is 


Mock Convention 
(Continued from pageJ) 
itself with the adoption of a party platform. 
After O'Brien's address, a hard fought struggle to pass a party platform ensued. The first subject for debate arose over whether to accept the platform as reported by the Platform Committee in its entirety, and to only discuss the issues contained in the Minority Report. This motion was approved by the delegates by a vote of 257 to 164. 
The Convention then proceeded to debate the first plank of the Minority Report, which called for the "selective nationalization of certain industries to avoid the menace of corporate power," The motion to add this plank to the party platform, however, was defeated. 
A motion was then made to add, to the platform, the sixth plank o{ what made him so powerful...so often we get sucked into doing the least of two evils. In reality, we must be doing the good," he added. 
Fr. MRng is a diocsean priest in Buffalo, and is on the board of the Priests Association of Buffalo, which endorsed the principle of civil disobedience against the Indo China w.ir, last October. 
Don Luce, who exposed the "tiger cages" in a South Viet­namese prison, and four Vietnam veterans also testified yeslerd~y. 
The courtroom tension increased slowly as the prosecutor cross examined defense witnesses for the first time yesterday; and two spectators were asked to leave the court after criticising the court for not considering the crime of the war. 
the Minority Report. This section 
calls for the "U.S. to sponsor a resolution in the United Nations calling for the creation of an In­ternational War Crimes Com­mission. This motion was rejected by the delegates and not included in the platform. 
Other planks of the Minority Report that were defeated by the convention delegates include the section calling for an increase, from seven to 30, the number of days that the President may commit troops without Congressional approval. The plank seeking to reassert the heterosexual marriage as the basic cell of our society likewise met defeat. 
The evening session of the convention was recessed until today at 2:00 p.m., when the remaining planks of the Minority Report of the Platform Committee will be debated. 
Last Grasp proudly presents 
The Overcoat 

Powerful Russian Award-winner 
Caroll Hall Friday 3:30,7,9 75c or subscription 
HANNA GRAY 
University of Chicago 
Hachiavelli and the llunw.nist ·l'radition 



HAPPY DAY CARE CENTRE 
cordially invites everyone to an OPEN HOUSE CHILDREN ART EXHIBITION on Sunday April 30th between 3-5 pm in St. Mary's Clubhouse 










