
colder again, but at least the sun'll be out, if that 
helps.  maybe  some  
snow  tonite,  too.  so  it  
goes  ...  



Vol. VI, No. 79 serving the nd -smc community with the finest in news since 1966 
Wednesday, February 16, 1972 


February may be getting to you by now, but surely it can't be this bad. After all, Spring Break is only six weeks away ••. On second thought, maybe it is this bad .••. 
InPIRG reports good response to petition 
by Larry Dailey 
Co-Coordinators John Bachmann and Tom Kelly of the Notre Dame INPIRG organization announced Tuesday afternoon that ap­proximately 28 per cent of the student body has signed the INPIRG petition. 
Tom Kelly commented, "We are very happy with Monday night's results and are cautiously optimistic about the final outcome." 
The JNPIRG drive for signatures started Monday night when the representatives of each hall on campus began contacting students in their respective halls. The campaign is at­tt>mpting to obtain from 60 to 80 percent of the student body's signatures to a petition assessing a $3.00 yearly fee on the students to fund a public interest research group. 
Bachmann conceded, "Our biggest problem is attempting to contact everyone. We realize it is difficult to get in touch with off-campus students so our drive must rely heavily upon support from the halls. Our hall representatives have ex­perienced a relatively low failure rate. Less than 7 percent of the people we have already con­tacted refused to sign it so we figure if we con­tacted everyone on campus, 93 percent would give their signature." 
Unfortunately, Bachmann has not yet been notified as to what percentage of the student body is necessary for the petition's approval. 
"It is the Administration's decision, although they probably won't ask for less than 60 percent or more than 80 percent." 
Bachmann is also unsure of the manner in which the fee will be handled if it is passed. "It might be listed on the tuition bill as an optional fee similar to Th..-Obs..-rver. Ifit isn't listed as an option, then we will give refunds in cash to those students requesting them during the third week of the semester." 
Kelly added that those off-campus students desirous of signing the petition could find sign-up tables located in the INPIRG office, the Off­Campus office, the Huddle, or the library lobby. In addition, petitions will also be available at the Halph Nader speech this Thursday night. . 

Dziedzic joins race; pledges 'challenge' 

by T.C. Treanor Obst>rver Assistant Editor 
Student Government Ombudsman Paul Dziedzic last night became the year's second announced candidate for Student BodyPresident. 
In a brief meeting before su_pporters and press in Lafortune Student Center's Fiesta Lounge, Dziedzic and running mate Mike Sherrod pledged to "redefine student government" and to "challange individuals to stop accepting paternalistic-direction.'' 
Dziedzic, a Grace Hall Junior majoring in Government, is a member of St. Mary's College Student Assembly as well as Omsbudsman. Sherrod, from Flanner Hall, is Sophomore Class President and Chairman of the Academic (~rievences Board. -·· 

a 'commitment' to st. mary's 
Dziedzic, from Lacey, Washington, said he had a "commitment. to the women of St. Mary's College...no way diminished by the problems that the two administrations are having," but he refused to endorse any specific program at this time. 
Dziedzic described his mood as "frustrated.. .if I had communicated this six months ago it would have been respected. The campaign cheapens the effect." 
The Student Government Omsbudsman said that he hoped "to change not only the student body president but student government as well." 

Dziedzic promised to "redefine" student government "so that its energy and attention stay glued on its reason for existing: the student and his concerns." 
He refused, however, to criticize current SBP John Barkett, contending that "the problem has been with us for sixteen-eighteen years. 
"Student Government has always spent effort on opening channels between itself and the Administration. On important questions, though, the Administration doesn't listen to Student Government. I would concentrate on opening channels between the student body and student government so that we can confront the ad­ministration with the collective 'we' rather than the 'I', " Dziedzic said. 

'challenge the student body' 
According to the Omsbudsman, "Student Government must strip itself of the confines of the past. It must challenge the Student Body to contribute its answers to improve the present and insure the future of Notre Dame." 
Dziedzic called this the "challenge of a new beginning." "We must take charge of our future," the Omsbudsman said. 
According to Dziedzic, he has specific plans for "new structures" in student government, but he declined to reveal them at the present time. 
Dziedzic was appointed to his Omsbudsman's 


Dziedzic: A "commitment to the women of St. Mary's " to merge 

\ 
Sherrod: "Students will be electing the idea and not the candidate" 
post when SBP John Barkett assumed office last April. He was elected to one of the five at-large seats in the St. Mary's Assembly last October. 
His running mate, Sherrod, was elected Sophomore Class President last year on a write­in vote. He also ran against SBP candidate Floyd Kezele for the Tower's SLC post in a special election in November of 1970, but lost. 

According to Sherrod, "Our <his and Dzied­zic's l philosophies on Student Government are extremely similar. Students will be electing the idea and not the candidate." 
Dziedzic's campaign will be managed by Sophomore Rod Braye, a Dome editor. 


Saul Bellow criticizes -contemporary fiction 
See page 2 


Page 2 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, February 16, 1972 
Bellow hits 'amusement society' 
by Dan Hopfer The greatest source of these details is Citing that Edgar Allen Poe died drunk prison of peripheral consciousness." 
In a lecture highlighted by comments on contemporary American culture, Saul Bellow, attacked the superfluity of scientific details in present fiction, while stressing a n~ed for a return to simplicity in what he termed the "amusement" oriented American society. 
Bellow spoke last night at Stepan Center. 
Bellow, noted author of Herzog and The Dangling Man, and recipient of the National Book Award for his The Ad­ventures of Augie March, recited a paper for the crowd of nearly 500 which he had titled, "Who's Got the Story? or What has happened to the art of fiction in the last 150 years." 
Bellow began, "If I Can't release a certain amount of aggression (in my talk) then the evening has not been successful." 
Among those to whom the author directed his aggressive criticisms were Leonard Trilling, Professor at Columbia University, other contemporary American writers, and the mass media. 
An article written by Trilling was discussed at length by Bellow, during which he utilized James Joyce's Ulysses to discuss much of what Trilling said. 
Attacking Trilling's concept that literature is "inauthentic" because it captures the readers mind, thus "spellbinding" him, Bellow commented that Homer, Shakespeare and Cervantes are all spellbinders, so therefore they must be , according to Trilling, unreadable. 
The concept of the "story" in fiction is becoming less and less prevalent and is giving way to supperfluous details; when speaking about Ulysses, Bellow termed these {ietails "psychic junk". 

the news media, he ssid. "There is too much great noise ... Discourse is winning out over expression." He called the media a great threat to the survival of art. 
Bellow went on to say that we are living in an "amusement society." Such authors as Norman Mailer and Gore Vidal, ap­pearing on television and offering them­selves "body and soul to the American public," he added, "this gladiatorial ac­tivity is amusing to the people .. .I think it's rather sad." 


Of Campus Interest • • • 
Grad Student Talk 
A veteran political worker in Mishawaka, Henry Farrettie, will discuss "Political Processes" in a talk to graduate students in the College of Business Administration at the University of Notre Dame at Bam Wednesday(February 16). 
Mrs. Genevieve Block Joyce, the mother of Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice president of the University of NotreDame, died Saturday at St. Anne Hospice, Winona, Minn., following an extended illness. She was 82 years old. 
Burial will be Thursday from St. Paul the Apostle Catholic Church in her native Spar­tanburg, S.C. Funeral arrangements are being handled by Floyd Mortuary in Spar­tanburg. 

The program is one of a series 
arranged by Dr. Salvatore J. 
Bella, chairman of the depart­
ment of management. 
In his talk Ferrettie will 
discuss the factors having an 
influence on local politics, the 
powers involved, and the im­
portance for citizens to become 
active participants in the field of 
politics. 
Ferrettie, former chairman of 
the Mishawaka-Penn Democratic 
club, was an unsuccessful can­
didate for mayor in the 
November Mishawaka election. 
He has been active in con­
servation work, served five 
terms as president of the 
DeAmicos Club, and participated 
in the St. Joseph Hospital ex­
pansion campaign. 
Humanities Endowment I Young people interested in translating "their education and ethical concerns into concrete projects" are being offered funds 


CALIFORNIA THIS EASTER? 

MARCH 22 TO APRIL 14, 1972 

South Bend to los Angeles and return or South Bend to San Francisco & return Total Cost: $130 R-T 
Sign ups and more information this Saturday afternoon (Feb. 19th) from 
1:00 to 3:00 pm in Room 1-D of the LaFortune Student Center Bill-6705 Tony -8765 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary''!i College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postag'e paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
in a gutter, the author thought that American society "crushes its finest spirits." 
When speaking of Joyce's novel, Bellow said, "Without a story, we are at the mercy of randomness". Bellow felt that this "great noise" and "overabundance of discourse" was reaching a dangerous level. 
If it continues, he added, we are to become as Leopold Bloom, hero of Ulysses, namely, "at hard labor in the 
In the heart of downtown South Bend 
Bellow entertained questions at the end of the session concerning: --French writers: "The French have a passion for literature which like ours for baseball.'' --his favorite author: John Ellison, John Cheever, and Donlevy. 
After the formal session, Bellow had still another question period with admiring hangers-on. 
The lecture was sponsored by the Cultural Arts Commission. 

(AHf~H(1( 1 A~~ ­
y ___. .......... --· 
under a new program of the National Endowment for the Humanities. The grants are expected to range from $1,000 to $10,000. Officials indicated that the projects could include student-designed black studies courses, studies of folk traditions, and historical studies related to youth involvement in the peace movement. 

Action: 
GOOD FOOD AT MODEST PRICES ·Steaks ·Chops ·Chicken ·Sea Food ·c)lj-i et atmosphere -pleasant 

surroundings 
CLOSED MONDAYS 
Daily & Sunday 11 am till 9 pm Saturday 11 am till 10 pm 

WANT A JOB? 
Need girl to work in Campus Press -as a receptionist on Mon. Wed, Fri. 1 to 5 beginning March8. Job continues next yr.-5 days Mon-Fri if possible. (could work out alternative) Fresh. or Soph preferred Good pay -great fringe benefits. Call Kathy-283-7047 Mon. Wed. Fri 1-5 or come in-
Campus Press Bsm t. LaFortune Student Center 
If you want it 
Action for the environment Action for consumer protection Action for racism and sexism Action for iob safety Action f<?r you 
If you don't do it -it won't get done Your help is needed Call 3827 or 6413 
Petitioners are going door to door in your dorm-Off campus-Sign up in the lnPIRG Office, The 
Huddle or the library Sign The Petition for 



lnPIRG 


Wednesday, February 16, 1972 THE OBSERVER P!S1!3 
-world 
briefs 
((') 1!17:! Nt>w York Times 
Washington--Defense Secretary Laird told Congress Tuesday that the United States would resume construction of Polaris Millile sub­marines unless the Soviet Union either agrees to a mutual halt in the construction of missile submarines or unilaterally halts building them when it reaches parity with the United States fleet. 
Paris--Jacques Chaban-Delmas, the French Premier, went on television to deny reports that he had evaded taxes for four years and had hidden his wealth. He accused his critics of attempting to keep him from continuing in office and said that he would continue. He also indicated that he had the full support of President Pompidou. 
Washington--Attorney General John N. Mitchell resigned in order to h(•ad the re-election campaign of President Nixon, who immediately nominated deputy attorney General Richard N. Kleindienst as Mit­chell's replacement. The nomination is likely to spark another senate eonfirmation battle. 
Sa•·asota. Fla.--Busing to achieve racial integration became the central issue of the Florida Primary when Gov. Reuben Askew, an opponent of busing, said he would not veto a bill passed by the legislature that placed a non-binding anti-busing referendum on the primary ballot. 
on campus today 
4: 30--lecture, prof. george stark, studies using nuclear magnetic resonance, 123 nieuwland 
.7:30--meeting, students for mcgovern, regina south lounge 
8: 30--drama, judas christ, o'laughlin auditorium. 
9:00--meeting, inpirg, regina south lounge. 
10: 30--mass. smc campus ministry, ash wednesday 
concelebratory  mass,  
regina chapel.  
10: 30--mass,  fr.  robert  

griffin, ash wednesday penitenial service, keenan-stanford chapel. 
'Strong possibility' 
Block plans studied 
and Badin. 
The committe was selected by the Hall Presidents Council which Chambers intends to use as an advisory council. The members are Carmen Maciariello, Dave Fromm, Buz Imhoff. Bob Ryan, DenisO'Leary and Joe Markosek. 
The group is studying the feasibility of the hall presidents reserving blocks of rooms. Imhoff and Fromm, presidents of the two deposed halls, have made public the resoltion concerning the moving of sections. The proposal, in its present form, was 
_:J~t_yresented to the Committee. 
The Imhoff-Fromm proposal 
calls for each hall to set aside 10 
to 15 beds in one section for the 
residents of Walsh and Badin. 
They also hope that the halls will 
allow the exiles to pick as if 
presently members of the halls. 
Chambers spoke confidently of 
the proposal and claimed that he 
was"very anxious" to see it 
implemented. He added though, 
that a decision will not be made 
until Fromm and Imhoff can 
present some definite figures on 
the numbers of residents that 

wish to stay on campus. 
The decision is technically in Chambers' hands, but he says it will be a "sharing type of com­mitte." The committe and the HPC will advise Chambers on the final verdict. 
Chambers also offered another 

possibility for Badin and Walsh 
residents. He said that presently 

there are openings in other halls 
and the residents could begin 
moving now if they wish. 
MAKE MONEY, 



MUSIC AND FRIENDS. 
Just turn your friends onto the Finest Stereo Equlpment... they·ll thank you for lt. You can quote outrageously low prices on every major brand. Our warehouse buying volume has made our prices the country's lowest. We pass the savings on to you. 
When your classmates hear your low prices and compare them to the local retailers ... you·re going to win a few friends and make 
quite a bit of money too. 
IF this turns you on and you think you can sell at least one system a month. fill out the coupon and we'll be talking to you. 
by Jerry Lutkus 
Moving dislocated Badin and Walsh residents in blocks is now "a very strong possibility" ac­cording to an ad hodc housing committee chaired by Fr. Thomas Chambers, housing director. 
Chambers assured the residents of Walsh and Badin at Monday night's meeting that they are "our great concern. Right now. they are our top priority." 
The purpose of the meetingand the committee, according to Chambers. is to facilitate the transfer of the residents of Walsh 
The following is a proposal forwarded by two extremely concerned residents of Walsh and Badin Halls. We are requesting a great deal of cooperation; perhaps in the minds of a few, too much. But we would hope that all concerned would bear in mind that their classmates in these two halls are being asked to carry the burden of inconvenience in Notre Dame's transition to coeducation. This community has always held a special bond that has brought diverse men and ideas to a common ground of understanding. We would hope that in this hour of need, our entire community would reaf. firm its belief in this tradition of ideals that is Notre Dame. 
I. We would strongly recommend that each hall council reexamine their room selection procedure in light of necessary acceptance of displaced upperclassmen. In particualar, those halls that allow room freezes would be placing those displaced at a decided disadvantage over residents already living in the hall. 
II. We would further ask that each hall set aside sections of 10 to 15 beds in one section of their l'lall for those displaced so that they might retain close friendships and perhaps a very small portion of the spirit they worked so hard to build in their former residence hall. Ill. We would recommend that every hall allow any individual choosing a room to do so on an equal basis as those previously residing within the community . Where applicable, we see no reason why time on campus not be regarded as time in hall in the cases of those displaced. 
IV. In the cases of groups moving in numbers of 10 to 15, we would ask that each hall compile a listing of what section will be available and your individual hall's policy of room selection. We, on the other hand, shall deter­mine, in a manner to yet be determined, the priorities and preferences of individuals. From this information, a 
moving group's priority will be determined by the average of all the numbers of those involved. Thank you, 
Buz Imhoff, president Badin Hall 
Dave Fromm, president Walsh Hall 
GET AWAY TO EUROPE 

Student Services will resunte its 
LUNCH TIME MOVIES ON FEB. 24 when an 

Summer study at University of Vienna 
EARN N.D. CREDIT 
Acade~nic Co1111nission filnt 


will be shown 
GENERAL MEETING Thursday Feb. 17 LaFortune Fiesta Lounge -Free Film 

Page 4 THE OBSERVER. 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-Chief, Glen S; Corso Assistant Editor 
Assistant Editor All successful newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend 

Advertising Manager 
Business Manager anyone or anything if they can help 
Jim· Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 


The Right Man 
The Student Body President Campaign is just starting to crank up. Two candidates have announced so far and at least two to three more are expected. The rhetoric has been in rather low profile so far, though one candidate scored the present ad­ministration for inaction in various areas of student life. 
At this time last year the Observer editorial page regularly carried verbal assaults upon the Krashna administration-­assaults it richly deserved. Inaction, hesitation, and sheer ineptitude, not seen since the days of Chris Murphy, were its trademarks. 
The students elected John Barkett in the hopes that his ad­ministration would not make mistakes. He was elected in the hopes that the tasks student government elected to carry out, would be done without tremendous fuss and bother. They did not mean to elect an administration that would choose to carry out nothing. 
To say that the John Barkett administration has done nothing during it's tenure is a bit harsh, perhaps. We do have a do-ex dining plan. We do have a vague commitment from the trustees to improve hall life and to renovate the student center. We did not have parietal and drinking rights revoked. 
To say that the John Barkett administration has done little that is worthy of merit, is close to the absolute truth, if there ever was such a thing. 
This past year has seen a student government bureaucracy do little. This past year has seen the student government stand aside, quietly, while student rights were threatened and while the unification nearly dissolved. 
John Barkett was elected last year to return a touch of sanity to student government. John Barkett was elected to tone down the harsh rhetoric and concentrate on producing visible results. John Barkett was elected to further the rights and interests of the students. 
John Barkett was not elected to throttle the voice of student 
government, till it became a choked whisper. He was not elected 
to allow his administration to lay dormantfor most of the year and 
toady to the administration for the rest of it. 
This year's student government, in short, has been a failure. It has been a failure because it carried the policy of quietude to an extreme. And that quietude has contributed to the morgue like atmosphere that has hung over the campus this year. 
The winner of this year's Student Body Presidential election 
must be a man who is willing to speak out against the ad­
ministration in the fnterests of the students. He must be a man 
who is willing to stir up trouble if student rights are threatened. In 
short he must be a man unafraid, a man who will scorn the easy 
marshmallow stand and strike, and strike hard. We think the 
student body will be able to find such a man among the candidates 
and we trust they will elect him. 
the staff 

Nite Editor: Joe Abell 
Entire Staff: Maria Gallagher (with a little help from dandy don) 
Headliner: Dandy Don Bianeamano 
Typists: mark neiderkorn, Lucy Rodarte, Pat Kenny, Ginna Smith, Barb Norcross, Ed Ellis (here at campaign central) Pix: Bob Hughes Nite Controller: Helen Smudski 
I. thanx, maria 
2. 
do you ever have a staff, jim? 

3. 
satisfied, f-line? 


Wednesday, February 16, 1972 


"I bought my kid sister a present, but the rector saw it and I got fined 30 dollars." 
The New Season Begins:;:;:;:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:;:=:=:=:;:::;:;;~=~=======::::::::::::::: 
Vice -President 

Observe the Vice-Presidential Candidate. Milt Jones -massive, slowly articulate, sedate. Mike Sherrod -bearded, reflective, quiet. A Vice-President, like political power, often grows out of the barrel of a gun. He is -more often than not -the product of a thousand tiny deficiencies in his running-mate's makeup; he often meets his run­ning-mate for the first time during the month prior to the election; he usually wafts through the campaign uncertain of his precise position; he customarily carries that uncertainty into his first month of office until he, scrambling and confused, either finds a place in the new administration or discovers, to his horror, that he's run with the wrong man. -This happens all the time -it has since 1968, when the fractious 
administration of Chris Murphy and Tom McKenna taught Student 
Legislators to bind the President and Vice-President, legally and 
permanently, together on the same ticket. 
This happens all the time -it has since 1968, when the fractious 
administration of Chris Murphy and Tom McKenna taught Student 
Legislators to bind the President and Vice-President, legally and 
permanently, together on the same ticket. 
Student Power's patron Saint, Rich Rossi, had reduced Vice­
President picking to a fine, if unsubtle, art. He simploy looked up his 
toughest opponent and offered him the job. Then to make things even 
easier. he looked up his second toughest opponent and made him 
Student Union Director. Rossi won by 1890 votes. A folk singer who had 
gotten into the race just a few days before the election came in second. 
Despite the haphazard selection process, Rossi and his running 
mate, Chuck Nau, got along pretty well with each other through the 
year-until the next year's SBP election rolled around. Nau supported 
Mroz; Rossi supported McKenna; and they were at each other's 
throats all election week. A little rough on them, sincee they were 
roommates in Farley Hall. So it goes. 
Things got a little more sophisticated the next year. HPC Chairman 
Phil McKenna had backing for his bid, but he needed a running -mate 
who was more preposessing in public than he; that is to say more 
forceful than a rose cabbage in salt water. 
He ran with Morrissey Senator Fred Dedrick, who had a personality 
more forceful than Krackatowa. Fred would roast the rabble, and Phil 
would come around later and pick up the pieces. McKenna started 
from a tremendous underdog position, but was the narrow victor in a 
runoff. 

Of course, a Union like this was not bound to long last. Dedrick took 
as much of McKenna's mumbled pieties as he could, and then deserted 
the office for long stretches of time. 
More recent attempts at the Classically Balanced Ticket have been 
less successful. When Stay Senator Tom Thrasher announced his 
candidacy in 1970, everyone knew he was a member of the Con­
servative Young Americans for Freedom and many actually 
suspected him of eating live war babies for breakfast. <he didn't). 
Thus, for the week before his announcement the whole camp was in a 
tizzy looking for a Right On Running Mate. The search for the lost 
liberal failed, and Thrasher took the pipe big a month later. 
Last year. popular campus personality Don Mooney was in real 
trouble. He wanted to run-he had organizational backing-but he was 
short a vice-president. The petition's deadline date was drawing near; 
his canvassers were growing desperate. One of the caught Dan Sherry 
waltzing into the SG office and badgered him for an hour. It turned out 
that though Sherry had no Student Government experience it seemed 
as though he knew everyone on campus on a first -name basis. So 
Mooney glued himself to Sherry; Dan did some dandy introductions. 
{lnfortunately for _pon and Dan, it didn't work. 
Mind you, none of the current candidates will admit the real reasons 
their running-mates were chosen. Platitudes will mask the true 
motives; platitudes will mask them throughout the campaign. But nail 
the candidates eight or nine months later, Stroh's in hand and footsies 
near the fire, and they will tell you stories to make your eyes bug out. 




~­
~----------~---­
Wednesday, February 16, 1972 THE, OBSERVER. 


Letters • • • 
• • . on abortions, gsu, gays, and exiled sections 

Gastronomy and Abortion 
I<;ditor, 
I would like to offer some 
l'Omments on the open letter to 
the Knights of Columbus printed 
in yesterday's (2-8-72) Observer. 
The authors of that letter took 
issue with the anti-abortion ad 
sponsored by the Knights of 
Columbus. 
First, as concerns gastronomy. 
I believe it relatively safe to assert that the general tenor of the Obsl'rvl'r <e.g., obscene movie ads, wretched typing, and <'ditorials so insipid they would have given Gutenberg second thoughts about the wisdom of his invention) has more than adequately inured the student body against any gastronomical scruples they may yet possess. Furthermore, the equation of butchered fetuses with "graphic descriptions of appendectomies or squashed frogs" provokes disquieting <not to say revolting) thoughts regarding the level of moral argument on which the protesters operate. Their lack of discrimination is itself no aid to digestion. 
I wish. however, to make a 
second -less whimsical -ob­
servation. The crux of the 
signatories' error lies in their 
assertion that abortion con­
stitutes a "complex moral 
question in this intelectual 
community." It does not . No 
amount of perfumed sophistry 
about " a moral question which 
must be answered by the in­
dividual" can make it a complex 
question. irrespective of how 
much such moral myopia 
represents the current coin of the 
intellectual marketplace. "It is 
no use," C. S. Lewis remarked, 
"trying to 'see through' first 
principles." All one can do is 
befog first principles in a cloud of 
pseudo-complexity. In this the 
authors of the open letter have 
succeeded admirably. 
When opposing such an attempt to "see through" first principles, one cannot give reasons. To attack first principles is to deny the very role of reason and argument. The only alternative lies in showing the effects of such sickness of soul when translated into action in the world. This the Knights of Columbus attempted to do. Obviously, their tactics were not without effect. 
Ted Marciniak 
P.S. I am by no means some sort of official apologist for the Knights of Columbus. About the only connection between us was my attendance at one of their movies some time ago. It stunk. 
Morals and Abortion 
Editor: 
This afternoon I read a letter in the Observer denouncing the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus for printing an ad against abortion. Later, in the Chicago Tribune, I saw that the American Bar Assn. had voted to support a resolution allowing abortions in all 50 states, up to the twentieth week of pregnancy. 
I do not object to these actions in themselves. Maybe the K.C.'s approach was "archaic." Maybe the non-uniformity of present abortion laws is unfair. 
But no matter how many "just" claims any person makes about abortion (e.g., the burden of a child on a young mother, or on the state; an unhappy marriage that might result, etc.), the only point that makes any 
real impression on me is that 
human life is extremely valuable. 
We are exposed to so much death 
that we often lose sight of this 
fact. We measure the magnitude 
of a disaster by the monetary loss 
and the numbl'r of deaths -when 
even one death is a disaster to 
that person's family and friends. 
Human life and human in­
telligence are miracles which no 
one fully understands. A lost life 
is gone, atleast from this world, 
forever. 
Abortion is only one of the issues which points out how little many peiople care about the lives of others. We go on continually hurting each other, and failing to realize that most of the hurt could be avoided with the slightest amount of thought or effort. I think often of Christ's words, "Love thy neighbor.'' I do not say that if everyone did, all our problems would be solved. But I think the time we now spend fighting could be used to try to solve the problems that would be left. 
I do not expect to see a change on this campus or in the world because of what I've written. After all, my basic point was stated 2000 years ago. But if only one person thinks my ideas are worthwhile, I'll be satisfied. Even one life is worth a great deal. 
Kenneth L. Bean Stanford 219 
More Morals and Abortion 
Editor: 
As a signer of the "Open Letter to the Knights of Columbus", I would like to react to Ms. Ostric's reply in Wednesday's letters column. As the letter specifically stated, not all the signers were pro-abortion, or anti-abortion. I must confess that I am just sit­ting on the fence, but I have developed my personal morality to a point where such campaigns, and such attitudes as Ms. Ostric exemplifies, anger me. 
Ms. Ostric states that she doesn't fully understand what we meant by "egotistical hypocrisy". Believe me, the letter left no doubt on that point! Ms. Ostric's letter shows the attitude of a pitiable group of people who, I am afraid, seem to make up a large proportion of American Catholics, torn bet­ween the First Amendment guarantee of religious freedom, and the self-righteous totalitarian zeal of the Church. 
I happen to believe that existence precedes essence, Ms. Ostric. If you need scripture, 
read Genesis, where God formed Adam from dust and then breathed life into him. Check the various meanings of the word "inspiration". Check the various translations of the first sentence of the Book of John (In the beginning, there was a Great Wind ... ). However, whatever my reasons for my belief, in this country, I have a right to expect that no religion will be favoured above me in law. And to paraphrase the bumper sticker, If you don't like it here, why don't you go back to Rome? Italy has some nice, Catholic laws. So does Ireland. If you can't take religious freedom, why stick around here? All the Catholic 
Church has done since it met up 
with concept of freedom is 
equivocate its doctrines and 
erode its positions. Why don't 
you just admit that the Church is 
totalitarian and get it on? But not 
at my expense:' I do not serve the 
Bishop of Rome, but Christ. 
Yes, Ms. Ostric, I am a Christian, hard as you may find that to believe. I don't believe in self-righteousness, a form of Pride Jesus condemned in the Pharissees. Please, Ms. Ostric, stop trying to cram your beliefs down my throat. And, in the name of my Catholic friends, please don't speak up on theological issues unless you have something to say that is of interest. Your blind-sheep at­titude must be an acute source of embarrassment for thinking Catholics. It even embarrasses me, merely as a fellow student. Please, Ms. Ostric, think about what you believe. Read the Bible, read Thomas Aquinas, read Augustine, read Anselm. Read some Protestants, read the Kabbala, read Lao-Tzu. If your religion is as self-evidently righteous as you believe, you will end up a more devout Catholic. But be careful. I tried it and ended up just a more religious person. 
Yours truly, 
Michael E. Petami 
Still More Abortions 
Editor: 
Having cut through the turbid prose and twisted reasoning of a recent letter protesting the K of C anti-abortion c~mpaign, I feel compelled to disagree with the sentiments of its authors. I believe the K of C should be lauded, not condemned, for painting the abortion picture as it really is. Intellectual appeals to students' moral sensibilities obviously are ineffectual at Notre Dame <as evidenced by the dismal failure of the Pakistan Relief Drive). The Observer ads were intended to shock the average student out of a miasma of moral apathy. .Despite at­tempts by some to theologize abortion into a social virtue (or at least render it more palatable through introduction of antiseptic methods and euphemistic ter­minology), the K of C has shown that abortion remains a sickening reality. 
Furthermore, the K of C effort hardly represents a "tasteless" or "archaic approach" to a "complex" moral problem. Although the intellectual and biological analysis of abortion may be complex, its moral im­plication is simple and clear: to rip a baby from its mother's womb is murder. Abortion is an immoral, barbarian practice unworthy of a civilized people. As a result, the Church has con­demned it. The K of C and Ob­server (organizations sanctioned by a Catholic university) are therefore morally obligated to oppose abortion. 
Finally, I'm sorry the signatories of Tuesday's letter reacted as they did to the K of C ad. But I'm even sorrier they could compare_Jt~man be~gs destroyed in a fetal state of development to "appendectomies or squashed frogs." That in­vidious comparison stands as the most compelling indictment against their entire argument. 
Richard J. Wall, jr. 364 Cavanaugh 
And a Reply From KC Editor: In today's Observer there was a letter concerning our recent anti-abortion advertisements and I will admit there are certain deficiencies which should be corrected. I will grant that the ads have not been intellectually enlightening but none the less our graphic depictions of abortions in the past few weeks were meant to awaken the student body to the horrible reality that is currently condoned by so many. I would like to state as to why the ads were placed. In recent years a broad coalition of anti-life forces have pushed for liberalized abortion, to help some people determine for themselves where they stand the opposite side must be shown and the Knights have taken this role. I would like to briefly state the Knight's position. The pic­tures shown were babies and abortions kill. This is a matter of fact that can not be denied. So often you hear of abortions described in terms such as "termination of pregnancy," "a simple surgical procedure," and "a loving act of social concern." This does not deny the fact that an innocent fetus, a human life is involved. Most reputable scientists who are experts in the field of genetics, embryology and fetology state that the child's life begins at conception. If we are to attack the fetus, eventually the sacred right to live on other fronts will be threatened as well. I apologize over the discomfort some people have felt at lunch while looking at the ads, but I have no control over the Ob­,server's circulation practices. I might also say that at no time will I decline a public debate. 
John J. Walker Grand Knight Council 1477 
GSU Griefs Editor: 
I noted with interest the article on the Graduate Student Union, titled "GSU Plans Grief Code.'' I should like to set the record straight on one point. 
Mr. Minnicks is quoted as saying the GSU hopes to present a proposal to the Trustees for a grievance proceedure "in the Spring.'' As a matter of fact, and of record, last year <December, 1970 to be exact) the GSU presented such a proposal to the Trustees. Their response was to ignore the proposal entirely, and to have the administration, under the direction of Fr. Burtchaell, set up a new "Committee"-the Advanced Student Affairs Committee. We were told at that time that this group "elected" from among groups made up in many cases of students hand­picked by the department chairmen was to be empowered to discuss grievances. This group has failed in every case to act, even to define the reason for its 
own existence. This is un­
derstandable, since both Fr. 
Hesburgh and Fr. Burtchaell 
have denied the existence of any 
graduate student grievances. 
What is not understandable is 
the failure of the GSU to ta~e any 
firm action on grievance 
proceedures, other than to 
submit yet another proposal to 
the same group which has 
ignored it. Low profiles are nice, 
but the GSU's is so low that one 
wonders where it is hiding. When 
the current officers realize that 
the standard administration 
attitude is to stall <on the theory 
that we will all be gone soon), 
maybe they will begin the kind of 
action which managed to get 
graduate students the few of their 
rights they have received as a 
result of action, not talking. 
Sincerely, 
J.H. Sweetland Dep't of History 
On Gays at NO 
Editor: 
I am gay, but not very happy. Why? Because I can't find someone else who I can really relate to. Someone who could be around when I need him. Someone who shares the same interests I do. Someone to care. 
The situation here on campus isn't helpikng me any. When I came here I was sure that I would be able to find one guy out of the 7,000 that go here. But it is exactly the opposite. Notre Dame has this image of being super­straight. Guys here who I think would be able to help me out are impossible to reach. They think that being gay is some sort of disease. Once they find out that you're gay, you're black-balled. 
If people could only stop and think about what a gay person has to go through, living a lonely life of constant hiding, unable to express his true feelings for his fellow man, a lot of things might be different . Homosexuals would not be haunted by the laws, subject to social pressures, and I would have a lover. 
Signed 
Lonely. 
Sections in Exile Editor: 
The residents of Badin Hall are correct when they say that the hardships involved in bringing girls on to this campus should be born by all. As the situation now stands, the residents of Badin and Walsh will be the only ones who suffer. 
A possible solution for sharing this inconvenience would be to open entire sections in other halls so that sections from Badin and Walsh halls could move "en mass". Certainly this would not eliminate all the problems in­volved in the destruction of an entire hall community. It would, however, enable close friends that usually live in sections to remain together. 
Student government should be concerned with this problem and push for a rapid solution. As of yet, I have not heard a viable solution proposed from our student leaders. Obviously, student power is limited in this situation, but recommending action by our student leaders at the Senate meeting tonight will be a step. More than this, initiative and pressure, will have to come from the Barkett ad­ministration. Charles Luken 




~-------------­
Page 6 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, February 16, 1972 


Mitchell resigns cabinet post 
by Fred P. Graham 
((') 1972 New York Times 
Washington, Feb. IS-Attorney General John N. Mitchell resigned today to direct the President's re-election campaign, and Nixon immediately nominated Deputy Attorney General Richard G. Kleindienst to succeed him. 
The nomination of Kleindienst, a controversial law-and-order conservative, set the stage for another lively Senate con­firmation battle. Mitchell's resignation is effective March 1. 
AshWednesday Services 
A special Ash Wednesday mass will be concelebrated this evening at 10:30 in Regina Chapel at SMC. 
According to Rev. Roger Cormier, a member of the SMC campus ministry team, its purpose will be to offer a "com­munion celebration of our calling to a conversion to justice, truth, love, and mercy." 
An adapted liturgy of the Word will be used in the mass, featuring the burning of material objects, which Fr. Cormier noted as "symbolic of what we need to see turn to ashes." 
Concelebrants with Fr. Cormier will be Revs. Ned Reidy and Walter Higgins. 
"We see this as an important opportunity for the com­munity to take a serious look at itself and grow towards further humanity," Fr. Cormier said. 
As only one evening service will be held, everyone is in­vited and urged to participate. In addition to the 10:30 service, ashes will also be distributed at 11:10 am in LeMans chapel and at 4:15 in Regina. 
Britain seeks coal strike settlement by weekend 
((') 1!172 Nt>w York Times 
London, Feb. 15--About 400,000 more workers were laid off today because of power cuts as a Court of Inquiry opened hearings in an effort to find a settlement in the national coal strike by the end of the week. 
Official spokesmen estimated that about 1,200,000 employees, most of them in major industries, were idle today as more in­dustries suspended operations. The figure includes the 800,000 reported jobless yesterday when the government's orders limiting the industrial use of power went into effect. 
Even with the power reduc­tions. Britain has only enough coal at power plants for two more weeks' operation. But many here now expect a settlement to be reached. perhaps by this weekend. based on the report of the Court of Inquiry. 
The three-man court, similar to a fact-finding board in the United States. has no power to dictate the settlement terms. Its recommendations. however, are expected to be tempting enough to be accepted by the miners, now in the :mh day of their national strike. 
Wed. Feb. 16 Through Sun. Feb. 20 Prices 
$4.50, $3.50, $2.5 
Student Discount 
For Thurs. 8 pm Sat. 2 pm Sun. 6 pm Tickets are '> Reqular Price Discount Tickets must be at ACC box offire 
A repetition of a now-familiar Senate judiciary committee drama, with liberal democrats questioning a Nixon nominee <;losely about his views of civil liberties and federal power, is expected . to unfold when · the confirmation hearings begin on Tuesday. 
Initial statements by Democratic Senators indicated, however, that a diehard struggle similar to the earlier ones over Nixon's supreme court nominees is not likely. They stressed that the President must be given wide latitude in selecting his cabinet. 
The miners who now earn a basic wage of $47 for surface · workers and $78 for those un­derground. are demanding in­ereases ranging from $10.40 to 

$18.20  a  week  more.  The  
government  has  rejected  such  
demands as inflationary.  


Harvard hosts anti-racists 
Over 1000 students dedicated to launching a national anti-racist campaign are expected to con­verge at Harvard University during Easter Vacation. 
Harvard's Lowell Hall will house the SDS National Con­vention against Racism March 30 to April 2. 

According to Jeffery Mayersohn, Harvard SDS president, the convention will launch a massive campaign against racism on campus, "be it racist textbooks, professors, or administrators and their policies." 
Harvard at first refused SDS the use of the University facilities, but reconsidered when the group launched a petition campaign. 
Louis Parrick Gray 3D, an 
Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Justice Depart­ment's civil division, was named by Nixon to succeedd Kleindienst as Deputy Attorney General. The judiciary committee will hold joint hearings on the twc nominees, commencing at 10:3( 
a.m. on Feb. 22. 

Shortly after the White HousE announced Mitchell's resignatior this morning, he issued c: statement explaining that he hac quit "to be able to participate in the campaign for the re-election of the president." He added that "I sincerely believe that whatever abilities I possess should be dedicated to the un­dertaking that will be most beneficial to the American people this year-namely the re-election of President Nixon." 
Four years ago Mitchell similarly withdrew from his wall street law firm, where he had been a law partner of Nixon's , to direct his successful election campaign. In recent weeks republicans across the country began to clamor for a return of Mitchell's decisive and authoritative campaign leadership. 
His resignation was reportedly 
delayed by a dispute within the 
Nixon administration over 
Kleindienst. 

Some of Nixon's advisers 
argued that because Kleindienst 
had been an outspoken proponent 
of the justice department's hard­
line prosecutorial approach, his 
Senate hearings would be an 
occasion for an election-year re­
hashing of some of the Nixon 
administration's most con­
troversial policies. Mitchell 
urged Kleindienst's nomination. 
Kleindienst was quoted as 
saying that he would resign if 
someone else were given the top 
Justice Department position. 
There were also reports thar he 
told Nixon that he would not 
avoid the Senate struggle by 
functioning as acting Attorney 
General until after the elections. 
Sen. Birch Bayh, D-Ind., who has 
been in the forefront of the earlier 
confirmation disputes, suggested 
today some of the issues that will 
be raised against Kleindienst. 
The Senator listed "his very 
callous attitude in the thing about 
law and order requiring Bugging 
and spying on citizens." 

He is also expected to be questioned about his decision not to oppose the merger of the Warner-Lambert Company -a client of Mixon and Mitchell's former law firm--with another giant drug company, Parke, Davis & Co; his failure to report promptly a $100,000 campaign 
Geographic scope: 
Tokya, Kyoto , Kamak.ura, 
Mt. Fuji, Nikko, Hakone, 
Pearl Island 

Credits, {4) units of uppe~ division 
~ties & Social Sciences credtts wUl be granted thru San Francisco State upon completion of the course. The cu~riC<IIum covers reltgton, art, mustc, polttlcs, aov'e~nrnent 
and economy of Japan. Accommodatlor" One of the \a~gest dormlto"Y facilities wl1l be used which ol'fer'S at~ conditioned rooms & recreatlonal fact ltttes & ltbrary. Highlights' The highlight of the trip ts to see the Gton Festtval, the great Shinto Festtval. 
For Detailed Information Contact' Asi.an Ame,.tcan Recreation Club P. 0. Box 2549, Stanford, Calif. 94305 
Na,.,..__________________________ 
A~nPS--~--~~------------­
St,...t, City 
State, 2\p 

contribution offer from a man knew of no moral defect in later convicted of bribery; and Kleindienst. his role in the government's Sen. Jacob K. Javits of New hostile reaction to some protest York, a republican who has voted demonstrations here. against three of Nixon's supreme 
Bayh said, however, that the Court nominations, commented scrutiny need not be as close as in that he would "give the nominee, the case of a lifetime judgeship. whom I know well, every con-
Sen. Philip A. Hart, D-Mich., sideration." who was also opposed recent Kleindienst, a 48-year-old Supreme court nominations, said . native of Arizona, first appeared "If the President says he needs on the natiqnal political scene as him, the Senate should go along campaign director for Sen. Barry 
with it unless the nominee has a Goldwater's Presidential moral defect." He added that he ~campaign in 1964. 
Gibbs School offers live $800 scholarships 
by Bill Sohn 
The Katherine Gibbs School is offering five scholarships for women with at least two years of junior or senior college credit. 
The Katherine Gibbs Memorial Scholarships, established in memory of the school's founder, are for $800 each and may be applied to the tuition at any of the Katherine Gibbs Schools. 
The "Gibbs Special Course for College Women", an 81!2 month course for women interested in executive secretarial and ad­ministrative positions. This is 

SMC-ND WINTER RETREAT An experience in C..:hristian sharing Sat, Feb. 19, SMC Clubhouse 
Sponsored by ND-SMC Campus Ministries 
Call Fr. Cormiur5389), Mary Gail Peterson '4494) or Tom Stella (1168) Today 


Student Financial Aid 
New and Renewals For 1972-1973 Application Deadline: May 1, 1972 Parents Confidential Statement To Be Filed by April 1, 1972 Pick up forms now 
Office of Financial Aid Room 111 Administration Building 



r ---­
JET CHARTERS TO 

_.oRIENT 
IOUIID Tlltr fAIIIS 

I 
S. 
F. -TOKYO $349 S.F. -TAIPEI $375 

S. F. -HONG KONG $399 
• All Year Round Schedules 


I 
• 
Connecting Flights To All Asian Cities 


For Information ContaCt: Asian Ame~lcan Recreation Club, Inc. 
P. 0. Box 2549, Stanford, California 

--~-!!.!:.._~5.l..~~!!.---------­
1Name 
A~~"·--~~~------------~~---­
St,...t City 

I State Zip ONE WAY FUGHTS AVAILABLE 
L -.. ­
and New York. The other schools, in Providence, Montclaire and Huntington offer a one year secretarial course. 
Scholarhip applications and supporting papers must be received by May 1, 1972. For further information, write: Memorial Scholarship Committe, Katherine Gibbs School, 200 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10017. A catalog is available in the library of the Career Planning and Placement Office of St. Mary's College, LeMans Hall, Room 174. 

,..---------------~--------------------------------­
Wednesday, February 16, 1972 THE OBSERVER. 

joseph abel/ 

f-1 ine: dining hall madness 

SoME or THAT "BoTULENT SooP, AND•••o" YEti, ANY 1\1\()RE oF 1'1-'AT TWO WEEK OLD JEU.O CIJT If-ITO 1'HOSE RIOT SIZED CUBES? 


judas christ-nd grad's award-winner debuts 
Ever wonder what happens to that 
wonderful china and sterling 
stainlessware at the dining halls after 
you've finished with them? Who ap­
preciates the architectural masterpieces 
of stacked dishes you've created? Who 
marvels at the lavacious gardens of food 
landscapt•d on your tray? Who ultimately 
peruses the various obscenities written in 
alphabet soup? 

Well, if you look closely after you place 
your tray in those nifty silver boxes (or if 
you're a bastard and leave it on the table), 
you'll· see a small, white-clad student 
scurry out of a hidden door, quickly grasp 
the cart, and slip in back into a black hole 
to some other white-clad students waiting. 
These are your faithful servants, the 
dining hall workers. I happen to belong to 
that honorable fraternity -to be more 
specific, the North Dining Hall branch, 
and work in a rather nebulous termed "F­
line". 

F -Line is a special place; a group of four 
of us are its permanet inhabitants, each of 
us is as unique as the positions we hold. 
Unoffical leader is a senior, Dave Goebel. Oftentimes bartender (and frequent customer) of the Senior Bar, Dave is in charge of "wheeling" (he's the guy you see outside) and silverware. Next is John Kilfoyle, also a senior, in charge of glasses. We call him Collis because a well­know basketball player lived in his room before he did, and he's always com­plaining about getting jock mail. Frank Walsh, a third senior and resident freak, is the "key" to F-Line -he's had the most experience and does his best to hide it. He's like me: a "slopper" (in otherwords, the guy who's got to destroy all the works of art designed by students). We all trade jobs around occasionally, but that's how we're set up most of the time. 
But enough of this preparatory material; here's a typical F-Line work­day: 
5:15p.m.: punch-in-time, and visit to the zoo time. Everybody gathers around the time-clock so they won't miss a minute of pay. F-Line punches in and waits for the habitually late Key. 
We set up the work table and wait for a cart to fill up. Key munches on an orange while waiting. He notices a patch of dry skin on his hand where he's holding the orange. "Sure hope this is the orange; or else I'm getting scurvy," he mumbles. I yawn and stretch; it was a long night last 
night. Collis settles down in a chair with a glass of applejuice. 
"Okay, you guys; lets get to work," Bill Buckland, a dining hall manager, mum­bles. 
"Aw, Bill, not now," complains Dave but complies and rises slowly to retrieve the first full cart. 
We all tiredly drag ourselves to the worktable as Dave bowls over three guys while pushing the cart in. 
"I don't feel like working," Dave moans, reaching for the first tray. 
"When do we get a break?" demands Collis, as he accidentally tips a glass of milk over my arm. Key ignores the in-
RAN Ct D PORK, 

cident while Collis grins fiendishly. 
"Heh, heh, heh," his grin widens. I grin back, imitating his laugh while wiping the milk from my arm. Suddenly he ducks, just in time to avoid the "accidental" spray of corn that shoots out toward him. 
But that turns out to be illy mistake. While watching the double "accident", I had neglected my slopping, and (oh, my God! l a dish had fallen into the garbage can. I look over at Key and point off in the distance. 
"Look!" I say, scrabbling for the dish as he looks away, but I'm too slow. I look up, my hand still searching for the dish, to see him poised above me, a plate of spaghetti 
in his hand, all ready to push it ih the can. 
"Hi, Frank," I grin feebly at him as his 
leer becomes more pronounced. 

But salvation was at hand-in the form of <always wandering> student manager Doug Jessup, I grabbed the dish when Key is distracted. 
"Where's your hat, Dave?" Doug demands. It's in the Dining Hall Em­ployee's Bible that we have to wear Greasy Spoon waiter hats (with witty sayings like "Safety Pays"). Dave snaps his fingers. 
"Ae, geez, Doug; I forgot again," he said. "Tell you what; I'll get it next time, okay?" He pushed the now empty cart back outside. 
"Break!" his head appeared in the doorway and out again. Key took off his slopping gloves and joined him. 
"You'd better get that hat now," Doug yells over his shoulder as he walks away. 
"I'll tell him, Doug." Collis offers, picking up one of Key's gloves and depositing a handful of mashed potatoes and gravy inside. He and I then join the others. 
Dave and Key were involved in a tense game of Push-TheSalt-shaker-And-Get-It­To-Hang-On-The -Edge-Of-The-Table. 
"Betch can't guess the name of that song," Dave challenges Collis indicating the music playing. 
""You're right," Collis agrees, after listening a while. "I could do it if they'd plug in both channels of the stereo." 
"Yeah." 
"I've got a joke," Key declares. 

"We don't want to hear it," the rest of us return in unison. But that doesn't stop Kay. At the end of his joke we're still waiting. 
"What's the punchline?" Collis asks. 
"Let's do that last cart," Key says. 
End of day, and today that means Food War Time. A spray of ice comes flying out at Collis when Key discovers his gloveful. Collis returns in like fashion and soon all four of us are involved. Food and ice and littter the area when Dave calls a halt with the warning "Student manager coming! " In three seconds, F -Line is spotless, and no one is the wiser. 
"Food war, huh?" the mamager, John Schneeberger muses, eyeing our aprongs. 
"Who, us, John?" Key decries. "Never! F-Line is always weD-behaved_ That's what makes us the best." 
And as John ..uan..., una.3, .:JIIGI\Uif!; ....., 
head, we all agree, the grins widening on our faces. 

The Notre Dame -Saint Mary's Theatre 
will present Judas Christ , a new play by 
Michael Rehak, FebruarylB, 19,24,25 and 
26 at 8:30p.m. in Washington Hall. 

The play, written over two years ago by 
a 1971 graduate of the University of Notre 
Dame in Speech and Drama, is about the 
Apostles during the final days of Christ's 
life. The play attempts to humanize the 
Apostles, their relationships to each other, 
and their own personal struggles during 
these days prior to the crucifixion of 
Christ. 

However, this is not Rehak's first 
production staged. As a University student, he has written several one-act plays used in directing finals and .laboratory theatre, such as "That Nice Homey Stuff," "Remember the Sundays," 
and "The Only Good Injun ... ". 

Directed by Reginald Bain, the company 
of Judas Christ includes Mark Genero, as 
Judas, James H. Hawthorne as Peter, 
Robert J. Rossi as Andrew, James Fox as "John, Thomas C. Broderick as Joseph, Pauline Petretti as Mary, and Grace Hartigan and Mary Magdalene. 
Set and lighting has been designed by 
Richard Bergman, technical director for 
the ND..SMC Theatre Costumes have 
been designed by Patricia D. Gruska, 
costumer for the theatre. 

Tickets are $2, and $1.50 for Notre Dame­
Saint Mary's staff, faculty and students. 
Information concerning ticket reser­
vations may be received by calling 283­
7054 or 284-4141. 

~ ·~~ ...~
'--..,........__
J From left to right is Cllristepher Ceraso, as larlllololnew, Mark Genero, as Judas, and Mark Swiney, as Matthew. 


,----­
p THE OBSERVER..
• 




Bracelets reccill POW's 
-~ 
by Dan Barrett 
The Notre Dame community is being asked to show its support for the 1700 US men missing in Viet Nam by wearing a bracelet inscribed with a POW's name until the man's release is assured. 
The program, organized on 
campus by Chuck Leader, is part 
of a national campaign to show 
the Viet Cong that the US people 
are seriously concerned over 
their refusal to uphold the 
Geneva Convention which they 
Voter sample to be taken 
by Andy Winiarczyk 
Pat Coyle, director of the Campus Voter registration Drive, announced yesterday that his group will conduct a second polling of students to determine how many ND-SMC students have registered to vote. Coyle will use the poll to guage the success of his group. 
Coyle noted that "before Christmas , we took a poll of 200 students from Notre Dame and St. Mary's to find out how many of them were registered to vote. The survey showed 55 per cent of the students had signed up to vote." 
Within the next week, Coyle's group will conduct a second poll. This time, they hope to contact 300 students to get a more ac­curate sampling of the student 
body. 
The Voter Registration Drive in recent weeks has set up tables in ND-SMC Dining Halls to hand out information on Absentee Voting Registration. Coyle noted that it is possible to register in mail in 25 states and the District of Columbia. 
ratified in 1957. missing man whose name it 
Leader said he wished to carries. The $2.50 charge for the emphasize the positive value of bracelet will be used to support protesting for the release of the needy families of the POW's, living men rather than protesting to offer a scholarship to the by emphasizing those who have children of the missing men, and died. to organize a non-political lobby 
Each member of the com­for the quick return of the POW's. munity will be asked to buy a The program will be run in the bracelet and wear it as an ex­halls by the ROTC programs on pression of his concern for the campus, with each branch of the service taking care of one third of the halls. Every hall will have a representative who will make the bracelets available and explain the program to the students. According to Leader, "It is up to
The SLC will not meet the student body to determinetomorrow. Instead it will how far the program goes."
meet February 24 at 4:30 in The program, passed with only the CCE. 
two dissenting votes by the Student Senate, has been given the full and vigorous support of SBP John Barkett. 
Burrell wins in Badin: last male president 
Sophmore Chris Page notched 45. 
Roger Burrell, a junior General The run-off for Treasurer will Program major from Phoenix, match Frank Chartier(54 votes) Arizona will be the last male and Dan Thornton(52 votes). president of Badin Hall. Burrell Present Badin president Buz won his hall's ·presidency by 78-55 Imhoff claimed that it "is in a over Kevin McEvily, a critical period. "If there are any sophomore. arguments to be made for 
Present Badin president Buz relocation or reversal, it is better 
Imhoff claimed that it "is done by someone who is sub­essential that at this time we jective. But I will still be around have a new president." Imhoff to aid the new president. I don't expressed his concern over his intend to leave the hall." own objectivity and he stressed · President of Walsh Hall, Dave that someone was needed who Fromm, told The Observer last was directly affected by the night that Walsh will not have program. elections for new officers. The 
Junior Joe Butler won the Hall hall residents, he said, decided secretary post by an over­that it made "no real sense to whelming margin and runoffs have a six week term." Fromm will be held for the positions of said his constitutents feel it is in Vice-President and Treasurer. In the best interest of the hall that the Vice-Presidential contest, he stays on for the sake of con­Dave Barry polled 63 votes and tinuity. 



QUALITY 

Here are some of the special offerings ... 
(there are more unlisted values) 

SWEATERS... 1f2 OFF 
Formerly $11 to $35, a good selection of sizes, colors and styles 
BODY SHIRTS... 1f2 OFF 
Choose from a special group of these popular styles. 
DRESS SHIRTS...  1f2  
Long sleeve,  famous  name.  You  
save exactly one-half now.  



ALL WEATHER COATS 
Lined and unlined, prices have been reduced on a special group. 

SUITS AND SPORTCOATS... SAVE 1f4 1f2 ,
' 

Choose from current woven styles, all university styled. 

PAY NEXT SUMMER 
with no carrying charge 
Pay next June, July and August when it's more convenient. It's the exclusive Campus Shop Way to buy. 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 

Wednesday, February 16, 1972 






