On The Inside 
Fr. Griffin discusses a 
friend .... page 5 
Ujamaa culture week coming ... page 3 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Wednesday, October 4, 1972
Vol VII, No. 19 

lhe Observer-Chess Club Tournament continues today in the Rathskellar of Lafortune Student Center. Pairings are on page 6. 
BurtchaeH defends 
co1nposition of 
priorities group 
Priority Committee Chairman James T. Burtchaell said yesterday that selection of committee members was not influenced by the two faculty letters protesting ad­ministration policies last spring. 
He went on to state that no operating schedule has been set and it remains with the committee to determine the agendas. 
Concerning the faculty letter, Fr. Burtchaell said, "Frankly the first notice I ever took of that, and I suspect that's als~ true of everyone else who had a hand in putting the committee together, was when I happened to read it in the ObsPrvt>r yesterday." 
The selection process began five months ago with discussions between University President Theodore Hesburgh and Fr. Burtchaell, and recommendations from faculty and administrators around campus. 
The Steering Committee of the Academic Council also discussed several names. Fr. Burtchaell added, "the campus was canvassed for a group with broad gage." 
wide range 
The selection of Howard Bathon as the only undergrad was based on his range in two colleges, and a high recom­mendation by a faculty member. Several students were interviewed with an eye out for one shrewd and with a broad base. 
"One thing that is clear from Fr. Hesburgh's instructions is that every constituency in the University has to be can­vassed and asked for suggestions, statements of position and suggested programs," the Provost said. 
When asked if the meetings are to be open or closed, Fr. Burtchaell replied that it remained to be determined, but that at any rate an interim letter will be provided. 
While the committee has no authority, it will probably make most of its suggestions to the Academic Council which will review them before sending them to the Trustees. 
Questioned as to any specific considerations which seemed viable, especially in the area of coeducation, Fr. Burtchaell said he could not speculate on the committee's agenda as chairman. but it is possible that such items as the budget will be discussed." 
composition not critical 
"I don't think the composition of the committee is going to be that determinative, Fr. Burtchaell stated in relation to the committee's dimensions. He added, "The committee plans to solicit and receive many comments and suggestions from the University community and co-opt the services of so many backgrounds. It's task will be to "orchestrate the wisdom and observations." 
The small size of the committee and its domination by faculty are also points which Fr. Burtchaell feels are ad­vantageous to the success of the committee. The per­spectives of the faculty and students will be there, but hopefully the perspective of the faculty will predominate because of their academic experience, Fr. Burtchaell concluded. 
Running for sheriff 

Mailer hits Nixon and women's lib 
by Ann Thl'ri'SI' Darin Campus Editor 

Norman Mailer, Americanus litteratus, reactivated his campaign for United States sheriff last night at Stepan Center. 
Mailer thumbed through the pages of his latest book of judgement, St. George and the God­fatht>r, a chronicle of the two national political conventions which was published yesterday, and gave his pronouncements on 1972 Smrtivs. 
Wearing a "Norman Mailer for Sheriff" button. holdover from his 1966 mayoralty campaign in New York City, Mailer read several excerpts dealing primarily with the Democratic and Republican conventions to the Stepan Center-capacity crowd. 
He characterized this year's Democratic convention as "a most peculiar convention of 1972 and the convention of 1992. It's as if philosophy finally entered politics." 
On the Republicans, Mailer revealed, "Richard Nixon is the greatest political genius since Machiavelli. We applaud his professional hypocrisy." 
It took 50,000 words, he reported, for him to adequately describe the GOP convention which Mailer acknowledged fascinated him. 
right to destroy 

Reflecting on social issues, Mailer con­centrated on women's liberation and abortion. "I am in favor of abortion rather than con­traception (the pili>," he asserted. "Abortion is the objective correlative of sanity ... Abortion is the act of self-recognition of woman. The Pill is an insulation against sanity because you can't change your mind.. .its effectiveness is not im­paired. But abortion-if\ woman has the right to begin extraordinary life, she has the right to destroy it." 
After caricaturing several other political figures ("Pat Nixon is like a Readers Digest editor attacking a paragraph, Agnew looks like a wealthy French hangman"), Mailer opted for questions from the floor. 
Questionned on who he had endorsed for President, Mailer replied, "George Abraham Lincoln McGovern--or better yet, make that George Abraham Lincoln Gary Cooper McGovern." 
"The medium is the message as Marshall McLuhan has said. The type of questions that you are asking me cannot be answered from the podium ... they must be answered in a better atmosphere." With this analysis, Mailer dismissed the convocation to the Lounge in Flanner Hall. 
moves to llanner 
En route to Flanner, Mailer analyzed last night's audience in comparison with the audience at his first Notre Dame speech four years ago at the Sophomore Literary Festival. "In 1968 they were more lively ... they were ex­cited. This year while they seemed enthusiastic, it wasn't the same sort of thing," he remarked. 
At Flanner, students tried to pressure Mailer into commenting on American letters and his work as a writer. However, Mailer stuck to the guise of a politician instead. 
"This week I am a politican ... next week I don't know," he announced. 
"This is an apocalyptic time--the swing of the pendulum has been going faster and faster," hP said. "Nixon sees himself as a man deserving of the word great. A man with no respect for language can't be great, however. With the possible exception of 
(Continued on page 7) 


r-----------~~-----­
Wednesday, October 4, 1972
the observer 

warld briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

United Nations-In the most militant declaration since China was admitted to the United Nations a year ago, the Chinese Vice Minister for Foreign Mfairs warned the General Assembly that the people of the world "must not be deluded by certain temporary and superficial phenomena of detente." 
The delegate, Chiae Kuan-Hua, who called war "inevitable so long as society is divided into classes ... " singled out the Middle East for special attention. He dismissed warnings that an Arab counterattack would lead to world war as scare tactics. 
Washington--Pentagon tallies show that the United States bombings of Southeast Asia in the first nine months of this year already exceed the total tonnage dropped in all of 1971. 
Washington-The manufacturer of cloud-seeding equipment says the United States has been making rain in Indochina in violation of his patent rights. The charge was made in a Washington lawsuit filed more than three weeks ago and largely unnoticed at the time. 
Washington--Any chance that the public might learn the facts surrounding the Watergate incident before Nov. 7 election was vir­tually ruled out when a House committee rejected a proposal to hold public hearings on the alleged bugging of the Democratic Party's headquarters. 
Washington--The minimum wage was virtually frozen at its present level of $1.60 an hour for the next year when the House voted 196-188 against sending a previously enacted bill to a Senate-House com­mittee. 

Campus happenings •.•• 
viable alternatives to abortion and New psych program in making the public and the 
A doctoral program in coun­seling psychology of the Depart­ment of Graduate Studies in Education at the University of Notre Dame has received ac­creditation from the American Psychological Association, one of 22 in the nation to meet the criteria necessary for recognition. 
Now directed by Dr. Paul Banikiotes, assistant professor of psychology, the counseling psychology program was started at Notre Dame in 1967 with three faculty members and five students. Today it includes a professional staff of six and enrolls 30 students. 
The program prepares students to function as psychologists in a t wide variety of settings and 
' 
capacities. Graduates work in community mental health agen­
~ cies, hospitals, medical centers, university counseling centers, social service agencies, and as faculty members in institutions of higher education. Required to complete a one-year internship before they receive their doctoral degree, the students,as part of their graduate studies, work in Notre Dame's counseling center
r 
and in service agencies in the South Bend area. 
Respect life week 
In conjunction with the National Hespect Life Week <October 1st­October 8th), the Right to Life Committee of St. Joseph county is sponsoring an educational program for the public at the American National Branch Bank 2121 E. McKinley on Thursday, October 5, at 8:00P.M. 
Right to Life is a non-profit,,non­denominational group established to present a positive philosophy towards human life. The group invites anyone with a similar philosophy to join Right to Life in its campaign against abortion. They are also against euthanasia and hope to help present to the people of this County a definite attitude towards the value of all human life. Presently, the com-lawmakers aware of these alternatives. For any further information call Patti Zych at 232­2501 
Law and pollution 
The University of Notre Dame's Law School and Department of Civil Engineering are cooperHting in a program to bring law and engineering students together in the study of environmental problems. Directed by Michael V. Mcintire, associate professor of law and Dr. Philip C. Singer, assistant professor of civil engineering, the interdisciplinary program is funded through a--­
$68,836 grant from the En­
vironmental Protection Agency. 
The program features a summer "workshop" course, which will focus a team of law and engineering students on a water pollution problem of local im­portance. Mcintire suggests such studies might include certain phases of thermal pollution of thermal pollution of Lake Michigan, Chicago phosphate limitation legislation or pollution from steel companies in the Gary­Hammond complex, among others. The students will be asked to develop practical, effective and enforceable methods of resolving the problems studied. Solutions may include judicial enforcement of existing technology, new legislation, or any combination of these. 
During the year, students in law 
will take courses dealing with the 
technical problems associated 
with water pollution, while 
engineers will become acquainted 
with laws and procedures 
available to deal with en­
vironmental offenders. 
SAGA food tours 
Saint Mary's SAGA Food Service' is really proud of what is has to offer, so proud, in fact, that the service is offering tours of it's kitchen facilities to the students. 
Each twenty minute tour is conducted by the manager. Ke11 
mit tee is involved i!l pre.;;§_!!n....t..,in...t:...._L...~_vl_.tt..;,_w_h_o_h_ope;_s_th_e.,.y_w_il~l_re_.s~ul~ 
·l NOTRE DAME-ST. MARYS THEATRE 
presents 

THE LION IN WINTER 
James Goldman's witty, intelligent comedy. O'Laughlin Auditorium St. Mary's Campus October6, 7, 12, 13, 14at8:30p.m. Students $1.50 Phone Reservations 284-4176 (Season subscriptions still available -5 plays $6.50) 
in a'better insight and more ap­
preciation of the work involved in 
feeding 1400 students and faculty. 
Each group of 10 people who 
participate in the tour is shown the 
sotrage areas, freezers, overns, · 
bakery and salad departments. 
They also get to see that the 
preparation of their meals is not a 
one-man process, but is an 
organization of 30 full-time em­
ployees and 100 students working 
todether to give the student body 
the best there is to offer. 
Sign-up posters will be put up for all those interested in participating in this informative tour. 
Medieval lecture 
Rev. Paul E.I}Pichner, C.S.C., a specialist in Medieval studies at the University of Notre Dame, will deliver the first talk in a series planned in conjunction with the current art showing at 8 p.m. Wednesday in the O'Shaughnessy' Hall Gallery. The talk is open to 1 the public without charge. 
Several medieval manuscripts from the Rosenwald Collection are included in the current display which incorporates the best works from Notre Dame's permanent collection. Sculpture by Michael Todd, a Notre Dame graduate presently teaching at the University of California, is on display both inside and outside the gallery. 
Father Beichner is a former· 1 dean of the graduate school at , Notre Dame and a member of the Medieval Academy of America. 
1 
I1

He is the author of a number of1 1 articles on medieval literature. 
The Observer Is published daily 
, during the college semester ex-1I cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per ~emester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

an caiiiPu• tDday 
4:00 program, 'non-violence: the personal cost,' flanner hall -the pit 
7:00 
spanish tutorial, regina hall lobby 

7:00 
meeting, ujamaa, Iafortune amphitheater 


7:30 
meeting, aaup, st. mary's chapter; smc club house 

7:30 
lecture, 'a veriety of god inclination In secular literature,' by fred kountz in carroll hall madeleva memorial ' 

7:30 
conference, tihd, 'deschooling society . the future of education,' in the cce ~: 00 lecture, 'the quest for logical form and the Ideal language,' by max black in the new biology


hall 8 & 10 film, 'maldstone' film by mailer In engineering auditorium, admission $1.00 



The Notre Dame Academic Commission invites you to a Democratic 


PUBLIC RALLY 
on 

Friday, October 6 9:30a.m. 
Stepan Center, University of Notre Dame 
Featured speaker 
Senator TED KENNEDY 
Citizens for Brademas Committee, Jerome B. Kearns, Chmn. 

The Big Fall Concert Series Continues with: 
THE GUESS WHO 
plus special guest star: 
White Trash 
October 14 at 8:~ in the ACC 
Tickets: 5.50 . all chair seats $3.00 -bleachers 
Tickets now on sale at the A. C. C. ticket office (Gate 10, 9-5) and at the Student Union Office in La Fortune Center (4-5 daily). 
... presented by the N.D. Student Union 
J 



ATTENTION! 
Friday is the last day to purchase tickets for the homecoming prohibition party from the Student Union Ticket Office. Tickets are $6.00 per couple. 
,
, 
_w_ed_n_e_sd_a...;;.y_,_o_ct_o_be_r_4_,_1_97_2___the 0 bserver 
Ujamaa plans culture week 
bv Marty Miller Observer Staff Reporter 

didn't recognize the fact of other 
student organizations on campus, 
The newly formed Society of it was an isolated vacuum and I ljamaa is planning a Black little progress was made." C\Jltural week for next spring, McCrady stressed that the goal 
which will feature Dr. Alvin of the Society of Ujamaa is to Poussaint. Harvard psychiatrist, 
create better relationships bet­
the Fi;;k .Jubilee Singers and wpen blacks and whites at Notre Catherine Dunham dance troupe Dame. "It is not a separatist from Southern Illinois University. group." added McCrady. 
The Society was formed in The society also plans a series of .J.muar~ 1972 after restructuring 
guest speakers this year. The list : ht• ctdunct Afro-American 
includes .John 0. Killans, a black Soeiet v author. Jarvis Tyner. authority on 1\oh;·r: J\l, <'rady, member of the 
the hlack nationalist questionand societ ~ 's PX< eutive board said, P. Cheke Onwauchi, director of the · ·Ttw i\ fro American Society , Afro-American Studies at 

SBP Bob Kersten, surrounded by bodyguards Nino (left Jand Vito, escorts Miss U.S.A. Tanya Wilson through South Dining Hall. 
Md. court overturns judge's abortion order 
by Diane Bauer 
<C> 1972 Washington Star-News 
Annapolis, Md., Oct. 3-A 16­year-old Kent County, Md., Girl, who was held in jail for sevendays after refusing to have an abortion, has been freed in an emergency hearing of the Court of Special Appeals of Maryland. 
County 'Circuit Court Judge George D. Rasin Jr. Had ordered the school girl held in jail until she was to be taken by the County Sheriff to a hospital to undergo an abortion requested by her mother. 
Acting at the request of Kent County Public Defender John Sause Jr., the six-judge court reversed Rasin's order during an emergency meeting on Wed­nesday, the day the operation had been scheduled. 
The court upheld Rasin's ruling that the girl should be under the court's supervision. She was released the next day in the custody of relatives. 
The girl and her boyfriend, also 16, who has been released in the custody of his parents, had at­tempted to obtain a marriage license but failed because a boy must be 18 in Maryland to marry without parental consent. 
The two were taken into court Sept. 21 after running aw~,v a week before because the girl's mother was insistent on an abortion. Rasin heard the case on Sept. 25. 

The girl's court-appointed lawyer, Floyd Parks of Chester­town, told the judge, "She has 
advised  me  that  she thinks  an  
abortion is murder."  
He  said  the  couple  plans  to  

marry, if possible, and that they youth, also a Kent-County student, has a job paying $60 a week. 
Asked why she ran away, the girl explained, "because me and (the boy) didn't want to have an abortion." 
The boy testified "We figured that if we stayed away long enough so that she couldn't get an aborion then her mother couldn't make her get (one)." 
Rasin told them, "The court does not believe it is in the interest of an unborn child to be born under these circumstacnes." He ruled that they were both "children in need of supervision." 
Rasin directed that the girl "Shall obey her mother in sub­mitting to the medical preocedures at Easton Memorial Hospital to terminate her pregnancy." 
He added that the girl was to be held in jail "by the sheriff of Kent County, who shall deliver her to (the) hospital, at the request of her mother." 
~~--. ~--------~~----~------~ 
AUTUMN RETREAT 
Open to all ND/SMC Students 
Sun. Oct. 8 from 2 to 9 p.m. SMC Clubhouse 
For information and reservations, call by Thurs. Fr. Tom Stella (7323), Fr. Roger Cormier (5389) or Campus Ministry (6536 or 5284) 
Howard University. They have and white to work with the Ujamaa also invited Angela Davis and Society in cooperative projects. Julian Bond. but it is not yet The society of Ujamaa operates known if they will come. out of the Black Cultural Center on 
The Ujamaa Society will also the third floor of LaFortune sponsor black theatrical groups student center. The room was that show the historical con­given by University President tributions of black people in Theodore M. Hesburgh, who asked America. "Hopefully the Notre that it be open to the whole Notre Dame community will get a better Dame Community in order that understanding of black people," students might have the op­said McCrady. portunity of being exposed to black 
A committee is to be formed culture. sometime in the near future by the The society will meet at 7 p.m. in society. composed of both blacks the Lafortune amphitheatre. 
HPC discusses hot dog stand lc;>c~tions 
by Patti Shea Observer Staff Reporter 
Controversy over hot dot stands and hall theaters sparked the main discussion at last night's meeting of the Hall Presidents' Council. 
Presidents of several halls questioned the assignment and location of the hot dog stands set up during football weekends. Representatives from the north quad reported heavy losses on the stands while the south quad listed profits from sales at last weekend's game. 
In addition to location problems, 
the assignment of stands to various 
University organizations was 
considered. "These hot dog stands 
were originally set up by the halls 
themselves," remarked Steve 
Jeselnick, executive coordiator of 
the HPC," and I would like to see 
the banning of University clubs 
setting them up." 
At present, each hall and 
University organization is allowed 
to set up a stand during two of the 
five home games. 
Competition between 
University organizations and the 
halls prompted reactions from hall presidents about the number of movies shown on campus. 
Fred Baranowski, president of Holy Cross Hall, cited incidences of hall film publicity being torn down. "Competition is heavy," Baranowski said. Although the HPC found no need for formal regulation of the problem, Chariman Butch Ward urged halls to work together in coordinating the movies and times they are shown. 
Opinions regarding HPC action on coresidential housing were also aired by a few hall presidents and were generally varied. 
"The guys at Sorin feel that coresidentail housing is one of the possible directions," commented Walt Spak, Sorin Hall president, but we should not focus all our efforts in this area." Parietal changes and hall renovation were listed as more pressing concerns by Spak. 
Plans for such hall im­provements are being drawn up by the individual halls. Since the renovations have to be approved by the University, various hall presidents stressed the importance of detailed andpraciticalblueprints and statements to be presented. 
"THE BEST 

OF 40ACRES 





PODRY" 


Brash, funny, subtle poetry by black, white and Puerto Rican young people 13 to 20 years of age. Selected from "40 Acres And A Mule," Harlem's youth newspaper. 
Mail to: HORIZON SIX 
P.0. Box 21, Manhattanville Station 
New York1 N.Y. 10027 
Regular Price $3.75 SPECIAL STUDENT RATES $2.00 
(Please include school mailing address) 
the ugliest words 
•
1n 


college! 

QUIZ FRIDAY on the next 

six chapters 
WHY "SWEAT IT?" 
Your average reading speed probably ranges between 150 and 300 words per minute. Graduates of the Reading Dynamics course read and study at least 3 to 5 times faster than that. And the average graduate of our course actually improves comprehension over 10 per cent. 
Thousands of college students are Reading Dynamics graduates, including over 750 here at Notre Dame. This is the same basic course that first received national recognition When President John F. Kennedy invited Evelyn Wood to the White House to teach her system to top level staff per­sonnel. Recently, 60 members of President Nixon's staff completed the course. 
The best way to find out about the Reading Dynamics course is to come to a FREE READING LESSON. You will increase your reading 50 to 100 per cent on the spot. Here you'll learn what it's like to be able to read and study 3 to 5 times faster. You will see a short, enjoyable movie and have all of your questions answered. 
ATTEND A FREE SPEED READING LESSON 
Increase your 

reading speed 50 to 
100% on the spot. 
Today _:& Tomorrow 
6:00 and 8:00._ P.M. 
CENTER FOR 
CONTINUING 
EDUCATION 
NOTRE DAME 
AVENUE 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 
. . 




-.·m···.·.

"!  :,.  . ­ .  
/  ..  
- ~  

,1 
,
, 
l, 
] 
~ 
1 
~ 
l 
1 
1 
1 1 
1 
1 
1 1 
j 
, l 
alusl: Basic Dirt


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Dear R. Calhoun 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer,News: 283-1715 Editorial: 283-8661 
on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the Business: 283-7471 
individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Wednesday, October 4, 1972 

tam lan,. 

Originally, I intended this to be an attack on R. Calhoun Kersten, but in all honesty, I couldn't attack him. Instead I've written an appeal to a friend who could change things on this campus. I only hope he will follow my advice. ·


Judge's Abortion
r 
R. Calhoun, I think it should be known that you are on the biggest ego r trip on this campus. I've known you since you were that crazy fresh­r man down the hall wearing a Beach Boys tee-shirt; but, many things r have changed since then-namely you've really begun to think you are r A judge in Kent County, Maryland, born child to be born under these cir­a King. Robert, you're the man who once personally exposed the r made a decision that no man (or woman) cumstances." An astutue observation ridiculous clique of infighters who called themselves student
, 
' 
has any right to make. Fortun.ately, the but clearly inaccurate. The question of government, however you have fallen to levels even lower than their poo-bahish tactics.
, Court of Appeals saw the light and the best interests of an aborted child is reversed the decision. perfectly absurd. The court cannot
r Playing Politics
Judge George Rasin had ordered a 16 possibly argue that it is anyone's per­
r 
year old girl to undergo .. an abortion sonal best interest to be killed. 
You're not only. as pompous as they were, but you've also tried to 
i 
~ against her will. Abortion-on-demand is Rather Rasin should have noted that it cover up the political goals of your friends -something they never tried r clearly one of the most controversial is not in the unborn child's best interest to hide. I wonder what the student body's reaction would be if they issues in America today but this new to be raised by an unmarried 16 y"ear-old knew that when you accused The Observer of running tickets in the SLC elections, that you did so only after your friends which were
variation (abortion-on-the-court' s­girl. Then, he should have provided 
running in each district had been beaten. Or what would the reaction 
demand) is well beyond the scope of even psychological counseling for the girl, bel 
be if everyone knew that one of those terrible Observer en­
the most pro-abortionist argument. No boyfriend and the girl's mother. Finally,
~ dorsements, which you so vociferousily attacked, went to a man youone anywhere has contended that anyone he should have ordered the child personallyasked to help H-man run the student government. 
r other than the mother should have surrendered for adoption at birth. Unfortunately, not everyone is aware of these actions, expecially ultimate power to make the decision to Instead, Judge Rasin comes out of the since the one media which can reach the students has been so undergo an abortion. Many laws leave whole mess looking like the most un­discredited by your comments. I don't deny your loyal following, but 
doesn't the truth count for anything anymore. For instance, I was
r the decision to perform an abortion up to balanced character of all. One wonders if 
shocked last night when a freshman told me that the King really knew 
r the individual physicians but this position he considers it in his best interest to be 
what was going on. Maybe he was referring to some other king
presumes that the mother has requested alive. 
because, Robert, the one who professed to be the Prime Mover sat in~ one not that some court has ordered one. the student government offices last spring and told H-man "H I'm r Rasin declared that "The court does Jonn Abowd out of here-I don't know what's going on and there's too m~ch ~ork 
for me to do."

not believe it is in the interest of an un-
Just Honesty
r 
r 
r 
R. Calhoun, I don't intend this as a personal attack on you. I only ask r that you explain to the students that in all honesty you don't give a r damn what goes on and really could care less if anybody knows about 
it. Also, admit that H-man would like to attempt to make some 

~ Cancel Cuts 
progress with student government because after being over in the office, he has enjoyed working there, but in reality, he lacks the ex­
r 
perience to do the job. He would do a great job if he could have some help from those guys who have some idea of how to work with the
Senator Edward Kennedy is speaking academic policy maker, should issue a 
administration, but, I only ask, Bob, why should they bother helping H,
~ on campus this Friday. His Stepan statement declaring that all class when you continuously shit on them?Center speech will certainly be covered absences in 9: 00, 10: 00 and 11: 00 Friday Another question which immediately comes to my mind, shouldn't by media in South Bend and Chicago. In clas&es wi~l be considered "cancel cuts." the students have some idea of what is happening to the 80,000 dollars
f fact, there may even be national press Its up to the professor to decide if he they have contributed to the student government fund. After all, a coverage. Beyond a doubt, no matter wants to hold class on Friday morning joke is a joke -but, your $5 dollar campaign with your own money is not $80,000 coming from a lot of other people's pockets. 
what one's personal political convictions but no student should be penalized for 
, To be truthful, Robert, I don't even know if student government is 
are, there is an enormous campus in­perfectly legitimate political interests. 
worth while but shouldn't it be given a chance, especially after the 
terest in the speech. This is particularly true since the 
respectability it gained last year? After all, I recall you saying that 
This is as it should be in an election university , especially Fr. Hesburgh, has the one thing you'd like to see something done with is the social year, especially one which has so much openly invitedna tionalpoliticallcandidates wasteland this place exists in. How can anything be done if no one is added importance for college students. It to speak on campus. It would be able to start a new program? would be unfortunate if some students discourteous to both the speaker and the 
What Can We Lose?
were prevented from attending the students to penalize anyone for at­speech because of class conflicts. In tendance of the events. 
Bob, you and I have both said forget the whole thing, perhaps we're 
order to prevent this problem, Fr. 
right, but that doesn't mean that we are absolutely right. If you allow 
Burtchaell, acting in his capacity as chief John Abowd 
the student government to organize and the students fail to support it, and it achieves little as usual, no one will have been hurt. But if you 
(IOUIIIUIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIUIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.IIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIII 
don't allow it to organize, and the students would have supported it, and it finally would have achieved something, then a golden op­Letter . portunity will have been missed . 
. . . from the scum R. Calhoun, your majesty, why don't you step off your throne and quit telling the students to eat cake. Allow some people to do a decent Editor: We, the scum, are. rampantly definitely out of our league, we job, I'm not saying who, but just give someone a chance. And quit To quote a famous long lost and rabidly indignant with Bro. aren't allowed out of the crypt being the front man for a bunch of guys whom I've enjoyed as friends, author: Gorch's sacriligious upgrading of before midnight. but who are terribly inexperienced for the positions· you are planning 
our holy terminology. Is nothing Don't take our name in vain or to give them. Robert, you have served your purpose well-you broke You'll lose your mind, sacred? Mere students addressed you will force us to bring some up a clique of poo-bahs who were so ego and power hungry they didn't you'll lose your grin as "rif-raf"? Come to your senses. real filth into the Brother Gorch bother to think of the students -don't make the same mistake they did. There's no use trying, No honorable scumbags would Center, You ain't going to win. risk the ennervating specter of the Herfl comes the scum. student center. The 'home of yours in degradation, 
everything decent and beautiful' is the scum. IIHLELil 155111.111-IIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIJJIIIIIIIIIIIIJJJJJIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIUIUUIUIIUUIWUWWUUWIWIIIUIIIIIIOI --------------­
the observer

daanesbu garry trud•au
1. __ 
Editorial Staff 

Editor-in-Chief: John Abowd Executive Editor: Don Ruane News Editor: Jerry Lutkus Managing Editor: Joe Abell St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Features Editor: Rod Braye Editorial Editor: Fred Giuffrida Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Ann Therese Darin Special Projects: Anthony Abowd Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis 
Business Staff 

Business Manager: Don Thornton Advertising Manager: Joe Butler 
Sports night editor: Stan Urankar 
Issue staff; Jack Frisch,korn,t>.l D'Antonio, Kathy Schwille, Mairin North, John Flanigan, Mark Luppino. 


Wednesday, October 4, 1972 

the observer 

5 

a boy named mark 
The boy named Mark was not a theology major, nor a turned-{)ff religious type; he was just a Catholic who had been told from his infancy that the bread and wine of the Eucharist was alive with the glory of Christ. 
The boy came at midnight last night to inquire about a priest's faith on this point. Priests, after all, are the keepers of the Eucharist: at Mass, they say, "This is My Body, This is My Blood," and not "This is Christ's Body, This is His Blood." The boy thought it was pretty cool for the priest to identify himself with the Lord in the Eucharistic declaration. Surely the priest should know. after that, whether a miracle of presence had ocurred in the heart of the bread. in the depths of the wine. So the boy named Mark asked the question: is Jesus really there in the papery little wafer; and if so. could the priest make the Christ-presence tangible enough to the emotions so that it could be experienced by a boy desperate for divine encounters? 
Apparently there is a whole genre of fiction known by nuns and taught to the students in the Catholic grade schools in testimony of the truth of the doctrine of the Heal Presence. In these tales, Communion Hosts drip with the blood of an outraged Lord, or the tongues of sacrilegious children are. with some regularity, reduced to soot and ashes as a punishment for communions received while in a state of lost grace. More edifyingly, there are the convent legends of the Reverend Mother who, when she was mistress of novices, felt during a holy hour with the Blessed Sacrament that Jesus was winking at her from the sacred monstrance. In my awn dealings with the sacramental bread and wine, I have never seen signs either of the Lore's pleasure or of His flir­tatiousness. With all my heart, I believe that at Mass, Chrsit invests with His holiness the blessed elements of the feast, according to the idioms of the doctrine of transubstantiation. I also believe that bread and wine have learned to keep their secrets well. The quick~yed cherubim may be guardians at the tavernacle, but I have never seen them there. Christ's cup may be incandescent with the Saviour's life, but the wisps of glory have escaped me. Only once, there was a trick of light, and the wine became a mirror reflecting the image of Jesus crucified above the altar. The effect was startling enough to keep me from swearing for a week. 
I have no signs and wonders, then, to· 
share with the boy named Mark. Signs and 
wonders would only confuse him, as well as 
me, anyway. If the Blessed Mother should 
about closets with the Harris tweeds, and 
value of the news? Pilgrimages would be 
made to that closet, vigil. lamps lighted, 
freshmen would beseige the spot with 
petitions about chemistry, and I would 
never get any sleep. All this fuss would be 
made because God's mother was traipsing 
the real news is that Christ dined at noon 
time in the Huddle, only everyone thought it 
was a teenag~ hippie, bearded to cover up 
the acne. In the Kingdom where God is the 
vine and we are the branches, Jesus has 
other dimensions than those of a Galilean 
carpenter with holes in His hands. Every 
man reveals Christ to me, and his humanity 
is the only sign I need to know that the Lord 
is near. If we can once get over the hangup 
that God is in hiding, we will find that He is 
jostling us in every crowd, and we really 
don't need places Oike closets) where we 
can meet Him as a holy person. 
The heresy is to confine Him and His operations mostly to the heavens, with distances so great that no Deity in His right mind would make the earth-bound trip. In the face of a Judaean springtime, the family of Lazarus doubted the miracle of new life quickening those dead bones, as though flesh would be more resistant than earth when the command would come to live again. The raising of a man to life, seen in the contest of April, is no more mind­shattering than the bursting-out of begonias. One suspects that the wonder­worker gave us April gardens full of begonias to prepare us for the emptying of graves. 
So it is when boys named Mark come to me at midnight to inquire after the ex­perience of the Eucharist, I say consider the context. Consider all the ways that God is in the world. His genius and design are found in every leaf and flower. His beauty and love are over us as the rainbow, and under as the earth, and within us as the light of our souls. The Incarnation was a celebration of the marriage of His spirit with our flesh. He chooses to identify Himself with the hungry, the thirsty, the naked, and the prisoner, so that we might serve Him and touch Him in times of famine and drought, and in the ghettos and jails. God is constantly invading our world with His nearness. Is it any wonder then that he takes bread and wine, the staples of the table with which He feeds us, and surrounds and endows them with this life? 
Can I prove that He is there? Mark, I can't prove to you that He is anywhere. But to me, it is a happy, though not an astoun­ding certitude, that when I have fulfilled the 
appear this afternoon in the clothes closet of prescriptions of ritual, God is present at my my room in Keenan, what would be the fingertips as holy bread and blessed wine. 
The 1972-73 Dance & Drama Series of the Cultural Arts Commission will feature a performance by Marcel Marceau, "the world's greatest mime." To a large extent, Marcel Marceau is responsible for elevating pantomine to a fine art. In the last twenty­five years, he has appeared and been ac­claimed all over the world. His pantomine character "Bip," modelled on Chaplin's "Little Tramp," has become a classic figure in the theater. Marcel Marceau will appear as the third event in the series, on Feb. 16th in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
The opening of the series will feature the ' 'National Players from Washington D.C. in Aristophanes' classic comedy "The Birds". The Players will present an "acting ver­sion," as adapted by Walter Kerr, in which the original lines are reduced to their simplest meanings and then recast in a colloquial vein. The play follows the ad­ventures of two clumsy Greeks who try to find a better society among the birds, only to t be beset by all the Athenian characters they have been trying to escape. 
This will be the third consecutive ap­pearance at N.D.-S.M.C. for the Players, who are in their 24th year as the leading repertory touring company in America. They will appear in O'Laughlin Aud. on October 17th at 8p.m. 
The second event in the series will be the Second City players from Chicago on Nov. 4th. Since their origin in the Playwrights Theater in 1953, the Second City troupe has Saeko lchinche 

humour. David Steinberg, Mike Nichols and Elain May, Joan Rivers, and Shelly Berman are only a few of the people who started their careers at the Second City. This will, be the second time the players have ap­pea red at N.D. They will present "The Best of Second City," featuring skits from their revues "No,No, Wilmette," "The 43rd Parallel," and "Premises, Premises." The performance will be at Sp.m. at O'Laughlin Aud. 
Followipg_ J\1:arcel Marceau in February will be the fourth event of the series, Saeko 
always produced outstanding satirical, Ichinche and her ballet company. A con-
rev. rabert ':Jriffin 
In a sense, it is as though He were always candles in the sanctuaries of the world for standing there as a guest at the door; now, centuries. It is the doctrine of the Real He knocks so that I can be certain of His Presence. I hope that faith in the Real whe~ea_bouts. . Presence can light candles in the sanctuary ·This IS my faith, Mark. It has lighted of your heart at every midnight in your life. 
1111111111111111111111111 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111101111111111111111111111111111111111110111111111111111111 

maya// -delbert & glen 

Delbert & Glen tonight with John Mayall John Mayall, England's leading con-1 musicians have had their own bands and all 
tributor to the contemporary blues scene, brings his new band to South Bend this Wednesday for a concert at the Morris Civic Auditorium. A tall, quite-spoken native of Manchester, England, Mayall is noted for his taste, professionalism, and for the brilliant bands he's put together over the years. John's extensive professional background spans some twenty-five albums recorded for London and Polydor Records. His most recent album "Moving on" is yet one more facet of his love for the blues. Like is previous album, ""Jazz-Blues Fusion", the new disc gives an exciting and in-depth pictures of the blues. 
Mayall has assembled a very impressiye band for the current North American tour'. Keef Hartley will be featured on drums, 
' Richard Blue Mitchell on trumpet, Freddie Robinson on guitar, Victor Gaskin on bass, and Fred Clark on sax. Several of these of them have played with a wide variety of artists from one end of the music spectrum to the other. These artists include Duke Ellington, Howlin' Wolf, Ray Charles, Cannonball Adderly, Paul Williams and Muddy Waters. Mayall has played with such English greats as Eric Clapton, Peter Green, of Fleetwood Mac fame, and Mick Taylor, now with the Rolling Stones. 

A new group, Delbert and Glen, will also perform Wednesday night. Their music is self-described as "down-home, blues-based countrified, folk-rooted Texas-Kansas~ California funk", applied to predominantly original songs by group leaders Delbert McClinton and Glen Clark. Tickets are still 
· available for Wednesday's concert and are available at the Morris Civic Box Office at $4.50 in advance or $5.50 at the door Wed­nesday night. The concert is scheduled to begin at 7:00 p.m. 
11111111111111111 II11111111 II 11111111111111111 II1111111111111111111111111 IIIllIIIIUIIIIIIIIII II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIUII' 
cac: preview of a year 
temporary choreographer of great aistinc­tion, Miss Ichinohe draws on her ex­. periences in Asia and the West to create an entirely original form of modern ballet. This will be the first American tour for this Japanese Ballet Company. The per­
formance will be at O'Laughlin Aud. on Feb. 
27th at 8 p.m. 
The final event of the series will be an­
nounced at a later date but it will be 
something in the realm of contemporary 
theater. 
The Dance & 'Drama Series of the CAC is an attempt to create a solid basis for a yearly performing arts program for the University. This is with the hope that from year to year, top contemporary artists will be attracted to the campus. In an attempt to make this series available to as wide an audience as possible, a patron card is available for all five events. The Patron Card costs $7.00 and entitles the holder to attend all the events FREE--please make note--once you pay the seven dollars for the card, there is no additional charge at the door to attend the events. There is one thing to note for all people who purchase patron cards--you must present your patron card at a ticket outlet or at the box office to obtain your ticket for such events. In the event of a sold out house, patrons are not guaranteed seats. The tickets for each event will be on sale well in advance of the performance and will be available at the Student Union Ticket Office and The Cultural Arts Office--plus ,off-campus locations that will be publicized 

at a later date. Patron Cards for the series will be on sale at the dining halls, the Student Union Ticket Office, and theCultural Arts Commission office on the 4th floor of LaFortune. For any further series or ticket information, call 283-3797 between 12-3 on Mon. through Fri. 
...._ 

Marcel Marceau 
6 the observer Wednesday, October 4, 1972 





Prisoners' rights discussed at CCE 
The problems and prospects of It was formed to give more support formed to helppeople do pennance between 12:30 and 5:30 each should be "an individual·program prisoners' rights and social to people working full time in for their crime and become better morning. for each kid," and thinks the urban social affairs, and as a people, the system has failed. In additon to calling prisons solution should be found in the
changes were discussed by the means of exchanging information "Most correction people today "cages," Bronstein also attacked communities where the child isCatholic Commission of Urban between such workers . don't rehabilitate themselves, the parole system for being time delinquent.

Ministry recently at the Center for 

Continuing Education. The panel was split two to one in because the institution doesn't help consuming and not revealing 
Fr. Raymond Gallagher, of
favor of abolishing prisons. Alving you," Bronstein said, and he cited reasons for denials, thus
The three man panel discussion Lafayette, Ind., argued in favor of was part of the weeklong con­J. Bronstein, director of the ACLU the case of an inmate who was preventing inmates from prison reform as opposed to givingference now in progress for one Prison Reform Project, and South forced to do prison work before correcting their faults. 

up the possibility of rehabilitativestudying for college degree as he Bronstein criticized mostfourth of the 1,000 member com­Bend attorney Thomas DiGrazia experiences.
argued that although prisons were desired. The inmate studied Americans for having a "punitive
mittee, which was formed in 1966. 

mentality,"which he claims, leads He spoke in favor of privacy, and them to thin~ prisons work and are opportunity for reflection andfor the betterment of society.
Huddle proposal to co:m:mittee 
r~l.igi~us . experience, family
DiGrazia, who specializes in V1s1tatmn nghts, and constructiveprisoner's rights, extended the
Would you like to see the Huddle and interested in getting Dr. Ackerman pointed to Student work experience with reasonable
criticism to the juvenile system
open for a 24 hour day? This is a reasonable proposals," Dr. Activities Night as a beginning pay as aspects of reform.
labeling it as a cruel andquestion that has no simple "yes" Ackerman said in reference to point for the study. "Many of the dehumanizing. He said there The conference is focusing onor "no" answer for Dr. Robert Vice President of Student Affairs students had never been in the criminal justice and alternateAckerman. the director of Student Phillip Facenda 's request last building until then," he said. He is I modes in the educational system inActivities. wePk for a report on the question of hard at work trying to m,ake the Stock course the hopes of bringing change to the "The proper channels are open a 24 hour Lafortune. facility into a student "center", criminal justice system, and to
along with Dave Caruso and Dan
IUIIUIUIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIWIWIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJI 
make the best research and study
Shapp. both undergrads from 
deadline set 
available to private and public
KPI:'nan llall.

Today's chess tournament pairings Tlwy have formed a nine man A registration deadline for the schools for improvement of committee to serve as course, "Strategy for Today's current educational patterns. 
' 
• a "listening post to student Stock Market," to be offered in the 
WHITE BLACK 

needs." They met Friday and Center for Continuing Education at 
I. I' lloppner c8892 > J. Kelley c8768) 

2. S.I'Ntit (1286> R. Lis (234-6689) concluded with the intention of the University of Notre Dame, has ~-C. Kohlmiller (1177) M.O'Neill <Nophone generating increased student use been set for Wednesday, the first 
BICYCLE
4. S. Osborne (1781) J. Clarke (234-7792) of the facility. "Unless more meeting date for the four-session 
!i. 1'. ~:spenan 11038) F. Finnigan (3589) 

li. T. llrsu <6349) P. Bolduc (272-7405) things go on in the building," said program. 
7. I>. Saville tNo phone) B. Trizna 0679) Dr. Ackerman "merely expanding Franklyn and Alice Bonnet, 

SALE 

H. L. lls1gnol 0735> E. Szasz (289-4419) the hours may not be the answer." LaPorte investment advisors, will 
!l J. Mulvuv (2:!4-6928) G. Sorge (234-6274) 

conduct the classes which will run
Dr. Ackerman would like to II l..l'orhallo 1272-7405> G. Hui (7963) examine the possibility of future from 7 to 9:30p.m. on October 4, 11, 
Ill M. Antolino <1262) J. Publicover (1522) 

12. J Sitter 18571) M. Carnes 0724) 18 and 25. Both have had extensive 
renovations. "This may or may
1~. !\1. llarvey <7791) J. Nowalk (8371) 

14. 
1.. Campagna (233-4300) L. Hannah 0316) not be the best site on campus to experience as market analysts and 

15. 
M. Slattery <8286) J. Glitka 0598) memorialize Dr. Tom Dooley," have conducted similar courses in IIi. 1\ Andrade I1874) D. Thornton (1487 


and he wonders if it is feasible for other schools. 
17. 1; Mar"huska <No phone> T. Arena (1062) 

the Rathskellar to change into a Topics to be covere<t in the
18. M l'l'roz !No phone> D. Yates (8406) IY. [J WPnhoff (1388) D. daCunha (234-1385) coffeehouse or even a bar if In­
course include "Dow and Other 20.•1 Hanrahan I1201) K. Fitzpatrick (8658) diana is to lower the legal drinking Market Theories," "Formula To 
21. Honhl'r <1298) G. DeGrange (3714) 

' Savings up 1to 15%
age to 18 years. Dr. Ackerman Determine the Intrinsic Value of a 
22. J. llyland (1496> P. Reilly (8918) :!:!. T. ('rowley <1583) M. Pooley (8933) also mentioned that office and the Security," "Market Indicators 
24. n f:arley ( 1863) T. Kresbach (3591) seldom--used ping pong room To Determine the Position in the 2.~. I llarihan <234-9292) J. Burger 0057) place too great a premium on Stock Cycle," and "Interpretations 
BICYCLE CENTER
21i. ~· Fauretta <???-1365> T. Spencer (3423) 

available space. of Chart Patterns." 
OPEN MONDAY 'TIL 8:30 PM
27. 
K. Bachman <272-0509) D. Gibbs (234-6584) 


28. 
J. WPaver !No phone> K. Kampman (8810) Any changes will naturally in­A registration fee of $25 includes 


·Dally 9:30 'Ill 5:30 

29. S. Shapiro 1234-9648> E. Perry (3114) volve the problem of funding, but all course materials. Advance 
Phone 287-1623 11437 Portage Ave.
:10. J. Md'ollum <7874> J. Moran < 6727) there are other problems to con­regixtration may be completed by 
31. J. Wilkowski <1412> , K. O'Connell (6795) 

:12. M. Parker (6325> E.Zagrams <Nophone) sider, such as Lafortune's icontacting Lee Pacholke, 283-7005. 

~:!. 1\. Lukmani <232-6787) D. Griffin (8604) questionable electrical capacity.
:14. H. Trolino (8325) A. Mendez ·(8876) 

Security Director Arthur Peers
:15. T. C'onway I 234-3345) Knapp (Nophone) :IIi. (' (;rimm <3264 > R. DeSaussure (1372) said the extra security is a 
:11. B. Schott 15612> S. Locher <233-9406) problem but a resolveable one, and ~R. 1\1. Mutz <1093) C. Daigle (8977) 
Edmund Price's food service staff 
:19.•1. Kf.'enan <3317) M. Lins (3&18) 

41!. T. Bornholdt <8455) T. Ancheta <No phone) would have to be increased. 41 1\1 Sayers 0059> S. Poolasek (6781) These are only a few of the considerations which Dr. 
Ackerman called "homework" for his committee. Expecting the 
t \\' • Knapp vs. 1 Rl O'Neill to play first round. 
Notices: Because of tonight's tournament action there will be no 

c~nter to be open around the clock 
('ht•ss Club mPeting tonight. 

before resolving these problems is like "putting the cart before the IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIHI 
horse." 

Chinese paintings at Moreau 
by Andy Schilling Obst>rver Staff Reporter  paintings includes flowers, birds, grass, insects, and bamboo, which is Dr. Kiang's favorite subject  furniture supplied by a million dollar benefactor of St. Mary's; wall decorations, including a  
material.  tapestry,  are  presently  being  
An exhibition of Chinese Paintings  Sister Rose Ellen of St. Mary's  sought.  
by  former  Saint  Mary's teacher  College,  the  director  of  the  One  !observer  at  the  Kiang  
Dr. Susan Yang Kiang opened in  exhibition, has many future plans  exhibition described attendance as  
the Moreau Gallery yesterday.  for the gallery.  She would like to  "fantastic, but spread out.  Two  
The paintings were done in the contemporary traditional Chinese style, using both black and colored inks. Traditionally, the painter used either all black or all colored  open a children's museum byNovember which would be an "experience" for the children, a departure from the traditionally strict "Don't touch" museums.  hundred people would leave, and two hul_!dred more would come." The exhibition will be at the gallery for twenty-six days, and  
inks, but never a combination of both in a single painting. The style differs from that of American painters in that the painter keeps his wrist locked as  Sister Rose also plans to furnish a room adjoining the gallery as an Alumna Room, "where you could go talk with your friends." The room is already frunished with  will be open Saturdays from !PM until 5PM. Sundays and Tuesday through Friday the hours will be from lPM until 9PM. The exhibit . will be closed Mondays.  

he paints, and frequently strokes away from his body, rather than toward it. Each stroke has its own special meaning which contributes 


.says
to the symbolic effect of the pic­ture. 
When it comes to pianos. we wft
Subject matter of the sixty 1 
do just about anything. · 
LAST CHANCE! 
to go to Chicago before three home games. Greyhound goes non-stop from the circle every Friday at 3:55. 
CaII Tom Boyer 234-8259 For Reservations 




FREE! 

2nd Annual Hot Dog Day Sponsored By The Student Services Commission Free hot dogs from 11:30 to 2:00, 
Thu-rs, Oct. 5th, in front of the Golden Dome. 

BUSES 
CIRCLE O'HARE 

FOR THANKSGIVING  
leave  All Sales Final.  Return  
Nov. 22  Nov. 26  

Tix on sale at the Travel Bureau. _ Questions call Monte Kearse at 7757 3479 

.., we can't dO it. we will try to find · someone who does. 
Call me now for an 
' 
appointment &74-9335 
,. 

u.s. 20 osc..Ja, lncllaftcl 
for the other 13 percent , 
The student chapter will meet 
Oct. 17 at 7 p.m. in Nieuland 
Science Hall. Last night they 
discussed plans for a county rally 
slated for Oct. 10 at the South Bend 
Headquarters for Nixon. Also 
discussed were plans to distribute 
postcards requesting absentee 
ballots, and bumper sticker 
squads. 
20 hours per week. Daytime. 
Call Prof. Huckleberry, 7586 or 233-2089. 
Featuring 

Good Company Appearances by ND officials 
The "old school songs" and special 
.i;CMC 8 track car tape player, 3000,
Live Music The Notre Dame cheerleaders 
speakers included. $30.00 Tom
Cash bars 

8636, Paul 7861. 
1965 VW Bus runs great. $450, John 8540. 
Admission price is $1.00 per person. Tickets 
For Sate: Gibson electric guitar.
will be sold at the door. 

Call 283-1620. 
For Sale: 1972 80CC Yamaha, excellent condition $255 Call Kirk (Elkhart) 293-1901 after 5. 
1969 Cortina G.T. Low mileage

1972 ND STUDENT TRIP 
Good condition. Call Elkhart 264-4416. 
SEE THE IRISH PLAY THE FALC_ONS OF AIR FORCE 
FOR SALE 
DEPART: Friday, (early pm) Nov. 10, 
For Sale: 1971 Suzuki 500 with 2 helmets, $600 or best offer, call 
Tom 232-0659.
RETURN .: Sunday, (late pm) Nov. 12 
Here's How To Take Advantage. Of The 
NOTICES 
Packaged Plans: # 
Request a seat for Europe now! We're filling fast. Call Clark
A.) The Full Package ($140.00) --including round-trip bus transportation 
283-8810, British Overseas
between South Bend and O'Hare Field, round-trip plane transportation 
Airways Corp.
between Chicago and Denver, complete baggage service, hotel ac­commodations fo_r two nights, round-trip bus transportation between 
Fans and Friends . Badin's first
Denver and t~e ~1r Force Academy (box lunches will be served en route) 
annual pep rally will be on the
and free adm1ss1on to a pre-game party (Friday night) and to a victory 
porch Thursday night at 8:00
party (Saturday night after the aame). 

featuring Frank Pomarico, Tim Sullivan, special guest star Digger Phelps and other at­
B.) Partial packages more suited to your needs are available. 

tractions too hard to explain!
Signups may be handled in the OffCampus Office 
Washington Post, NY TiO:.es &
basement of LaFortune from 11 :30 am to 4:00 pm 
more on Sun. at Pandora's Books, SB & NO aves.
Deadline for signups and payment is Tuesday, O~t. 10. For further information. Call Jim Shanahan at 233-4840 
FOR RENT 
One bedroom apt. utilities paid, washer & dryer. Call after 6:30 pm. 
For rent: 828 E. Wayne Str, newly decorated 7 room house. Drive­in garage. $120.00 monthly. Call 233-3325. 
LOST 
Lost : keys on wooden disk. Call Jan 6953. 
Lost: black trifold wallet. Reward. Ray Dandrea 253 Sor in · 8534. 
Lost: NO ring, white gold PJL '73. Library, Paul 287-3107. 
PERSONALS 
Child of Mary. Perhaps you'll say "Vergogna" I'm sorry but 1 just couldn't resist! 
Nella Borsa 
H-MAN: The DON grows impatient! 
Many thanks returner of I D football ticket -p.s. Walsh, 8118. 
Happy birthday Mon from someone who cares. Your son. Greg. 
Janice, you forgot your coat at Farley. Call Stan . 6781. 
m: that's eleven; hope there'll be lots more. 

Wednesday, October 4, 1972 the observer 7  
This week only  
Mailer becomes politician  CLR!Is..D· ADS  
(Continued from page I) to tell, but prqbably the blacks ·· literature and writing. It was would predominate over Jews. natural for them to make a a social  ,  
However, he does feel that each comment," Mailer added.Joseph Stalin, Nixon hasn't come ethnic will similarly Tonight Mailer's movie,  WANTED GOOD TICKETS ARE STILL  
groupup with one metaphor during his dominate American literature. "Maidstone" will be shown in the  AVAILABLE FOR TONIGHT'S Wanted: must JOHN MAYALL CONCERT .  
term of office." "Really it could have been any· Enginnering Auditorium. The film  secretary, type and take shorthand. 6-12 hours FOR TICKETS OR IN­FORMATION, CALL 8253. 
ethnic group which dominated described the efforts of a super-Waiting Novel American literature in the 1960's I presidential candidate to become  per week. Apply OBSERVER,' salary negoitabte. TICKETS WILL ALSO BE ' AVAILABLE AT THE DOOR.  
think it was the Jews because they elected. Mailer stars as theWhile Mailer refused to have a heritage grounded in candidate.  Ride needed to Boston or as far east as possible, leave Typing . experienced in disser­ 
elaborate his future plans, he did  tomorrow. Call c Michael 1529. tations, essays, term papers. Arlene Spitz, 232-9061.  
say that he was working on the  Riders wanted to Bowling Green,  
novel he promised that he would SMC representation  Ohio leave 4:30 Oct. 6, call 3010. Floor party; Rm 825 Flanner  
write 20 years ago. "I already  Hall, Saturday October 7th. All Ride needed to DETROIT Friday girls welcome.  
have 60,000 words on it, but I am  afternoon. Share expenses,  
not going to give away its content since it has radically changed from needed on boardwhat I said it would be about  driving. Please call 8253. All those NO seniors who had· their yearbook photographs Have 2 Missouir gen. adm. tix -taken last month are requested will trade for . 2 Pitt. tix . Call to fill out an activities card in  
twenty years ago. A writer should have some secrets from his Following Dr. Edward L. literature, art, theology, andpublic," Mailer pronounced. Henry's suggestion that a broad  Dan · 6154. the year book office (4th floor LaFortune) between 11-3 by Need one Pitt General admission Friday October 6. ticket. Call 5312. 
philosophy viewed as interrrelatedSuprisingly Mailer came out in representation on the Board of factos.  All alumni of Brother Rice High School 
favor of women's colleges. He Regents was a "necessary steop to Schlesinger was the first  Need ride Oct. 6 to Cincinnati or (Chicago). please vicinity. Call Linda 4942. contact Jim Kresse: 400  
substantiated his view by claiming keep Saint Mary's in the forefront recipient of Saitn Mary's College  Stanford · 8725.  
that marriage has not proved to be of American Colleges," the cor­Spes Unica Faculty 'Award in 1958.  Ride wanted for girl from Nor­Student discounts 
the most successful relationship porate members of the Board This ciatation honors teachers of  thern Illinois University for on new weekend of Oct. 6. Call Gary Westinghouse Compact 
between men and women. He elected Dr. Bruno Paul Saint Mary's College whose  234-4671. refrigerators. Spacious 4.4 cu.  
thought that the sexes should be Schlesinger as the facultv member selfless service reflects an utter  It. capacity, factory warranty, Call now! 
separated in schools since there to serve on the Board of Regents of dedication to the communication of  Need ride to Dubuque low or immediate delivery. Freeport Illinois area, Oct. 13 or Wynne's Refrigeration Co. 234­ 
was no reason to bring them Saint Mary's College. truth.  any other weekend. Share 0578.  
together. Segregated education The decision to add both student provided women with a richer and faculty representatives to the Dr. McCrayexperience. Board occured last summer at the  expenses. Call Scott 3364. Junior League Thrift Shop over Ride needed for two (2) to 30,000 new and used items . Michigan State game. Call furniture, clothing, housewares,  
Responding to whether the first meeting of the new Board of trend toward Jewish writers in Regents. At that time, Jean ACDAhead  Dave 7683. etc. IncIuding 800 new articles of men's clothing. Fieldhouse. Mich. state bus trip and ticket for A.C.C. Sat. Oct. 7 8:30am to 
Seymour, Student body President, American literature has peaked,  sale. Kevin 3207. 5:30pm. 
and now Student Board Dr. James E. McCray, Associate Mailer replied that it was too early Representative, was present at the Professor and Chairman of the  Wanted: ride to Boston area Oct. FACULTY FOR NIXON. A  
meeting. Music Department at Saint Mary's  6 call 8906. friendly gathering, 6:00 pm,  
Schlesinger is a native of College, Notre Dame, has beenNixon leads Austria. He holds a B.A. degree appointed President of the Indiana  October 12,1972. UNIVERSITY Need ride to Cleveland on Friday CLUB (Lounge). For in­Oct. 6. Call Mary Beth 4391. form at ion contact Prof. V.  
from the University of Vienna and branch of the American Choral  Vuckovic. Department of  
his Ph.D. from the University of Directors' Association. The Notre Dame in Political Sciences. A.C.D.A. is the largest nationalin YVP poll Schlesinger has been a Saint organization for choral con- Need 2 G.A. Pitt tickets call Resa Mathematics. 8066. A limited number of bus seats and Ride offered to NYC Oct. 5 & back tickets are still available for the  
A poll taken by the Young Voters Mary's faculty member since 1945; ductors, and publishes a  Oct. 8. Need on I y drive, 288­PITTSBURGH PIRATES . 0161. Sharon 5-10 pm. CINCINNATI REDS 
for the President in September teaching History and History of periodical, The Choral Journal,  PLAYOFF, October 7 span· 
shows Presidnet Nixon with a 15 Art until 1956. At that time, he nine times a year. Dr. McCray  Need ride East (l-80or PA. Tpk.) sored by the Pitt Club. All those  
percent lead over Sen. George founded and became Chairman of writes a monthly review of new  Oct. 7 OR 8. Sunday preferred. interested are asked to call Jim  
McGovern, among students from the program for Christian Culture choral materials for this journal.  Destination Phila. Call 6865. 8371 or Pat 8422 by Thursday.  
Notre Dame and St. Mary's. at the College. Itwas the first of its Dr. McCray holds a Ph.D. from  Forming Group ·need musicians The Undersigned beg leave to  
The survey made between Sept. kind in the United Sates; based on the University of Iowa. He has  with equipment. Call Jim 1520. announce the formation of the  
14 and Sept.28 included 3,600 of the ideas and suggestions of written many articles on choral  FIFTH OF NOVEMBER  
7,000 students at the two in-Christopher Dawson, the eminent conducting and has many of his  NEED RIDE to Western lllinoll's SOCIETY.theobjectof which is  
Friday Oct. 6. Final destination to celebrate or to bemoan, 
stitutions and is most com-English scholar. choral works published.  W.I.U. Macomb. Shi!fe ex­according to individual  
prehensive survey ever takent on The program now has been Dr. McCray is a life member of  penses. call Russ 28}4249. preference, the failure of the  
the two campuses, according to transformed into the Humanistic the American Choral Directors  Gunpowder Plot by consuming  
Andrew Nickle, chairman of the Association, and member of  Needed 2-3 Miss9"'ri or TCU an appropriate quantitY of 
Studies program, which introduces a  tickets, call Kilf'l 1777. Watney's Red Barrel. Persons  
county YVP group. the student to various aspects of many music teachers and choral  who have spent an academic  
Nickle said the survey reflects Western civilizations, with history, directors associations. other polls in St. Joseph's County ,------------~----~~------------------~  Need 4 adjacent tix. for Pitt and 3 year or the equivalent in gen. admission for TCU. Call England are eligible for full  
8242. Membership. Those who have 
which showed Nixon ahead by 40  become sufficientlY attached to  
percent among all voters, and 15 THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF LANSING  Roommate needed. Notre Dame the objects of the Society on the  
percent ahead among voters aged Cordially Invites You to  apts, Apt. 4-B 832 Notre Dame basis of a shorter sojourn may  
A PRE-GAME ALUMNI RECEPTION  Ave. Call 234-0449. be recieved into Associate 
18 to 30 years. Friday evening, October 6, 1972  Membership. Those desiring to  
The sruvey was made room by  Need immediatly 2 gen. ad. TCU be enrolled in either capacity  
room. The results report that 51  tix. Call Frank 1943. should communicate with any 
9:00p.m. -1:00 a.m.percent of those interviewed intend  of the undersigned.  
THE PRETZEL BELL RESTAURANT  3 guys need ride to MILWAUKEE Prof. Robert Rodes, Law School 
to vote for the President, as op­1020 Trowbridge Road  this weekend. Please call Larry Prof. Donald Sniegowski, English 
posed to 36 perecent for McGovern.  or Paul at 8276 or Rick at 8284. Dept. Notre Dame 
East Lansing, Michigan Undecided responses accounted  Prof. Elisabeth Noel. EngIish 
(Adjacent to the M.S.U. campus  Babysitter. 3 days per week. 15­Dept. St. Mary's.  

.. 
.. 
.. l 

the observer Wednesday, October 4, 1972

8 
Irish JV's drop Michi 
Sophomore Pet~ '.-);~~e~l~ '-~~li~d ~~. ~ .:19-y~~d t~~chdown pass from 
Frank Allocco in the junior varsity 17-7 win over Michigan. 
Changes at ND, MSU practices 
There were changes made in the practice routines of both Notre Dame and Michigan State Tuesday as the two clubs prepared for their upcoming meeting Saturday in East Lansing. 
For the Irish, the change was from their normal grass practice fields to the newly installed ar­tificial turf practice field. The Spartans changed some personnel, rather than practice areas. 
Notre Dame's offensive and defensive units took turns operating against preparation teams which simulated Michigan State's plays and defensive align­ments yesterdcay afternoon on Cartier Field's half-finished Astro-turf playing surface. 
"The practice on artificial turf will help us in our preparation for teams with artificial surfaces in their stadiums and will give us a good practice field on wet days," Parseghian sjlid. 
The Spartans, coming off a 51-£ trouncing at the hands of Southern Cal last Saturday night, are con­templating making major changes in their Wishbone-T offensive backfield for this weekend's game with Notre Dame. 
Coach Duffy Daugherty is thinking about mov·ing Mark Niesen from defensive back to quarterback in place· of George Mihaiu and backup, quart.efback 
Dan  Werner  and  will  definitely  
move  fullbac.k  James  Bond  to  
halfback.  ~  

Daugherty attributed his club's drubbing by the Trojans, his worst defeat in 19 years as a head coach, to the ·way his players were running the wishbone attack. "When you don't execute, it 


Sailas win at Milwaukee 
The Notre Dame sailing club finished first out of five teams last weekend in Milwaukee's Pere Marquette Regatta. 
Sailing with borrowed crews, George Gaw and AI Constants, in "A" and "B" divisions, started slowly but inproved their per­formances as the day wore on. Gaw began the day's racing by finishing fifth in a six beat fleet, but came back by posting five consecutive first place efforts, finishing as low point skipper in "A" division. 
AI Constants, skippering his first major regatta for the Irish, began the "B" competition by posting fifth and sixth place finishes. But he came back with a string of three seconds and one first. 
In all of his races but one, Con­stants was first to round the wind­ward mark, but infractions and losing a crew overboard cost him his winning chances. 
The Irish overcame an 18-point deficit and by the end of the competition emerged with a three­point lead over second-place Oshkosh. Milikin was a distant third, and was followed by University of Wisconsin <Milwaukee), Whitewater, and Marquette. 
Next week the Irish tangle with the best competition in the midwest, as they meet Michigan, Michigan State, and six other schools at Ann Arbor. 

doesn't make a damn bit of dif­ference what you're running," he said. "It's a problem of getting the right guys in there. We haven't found the right combination of backfield people who will block as well as run." 
Talking about the possibliity of moving Niesen into the starting quarterback slot, Daugherty said, "He played there all spring and at least half an hour each day all fall in practice." 
ND rises in 

both polls 
Notre Dame continued to rise in the national rankings this week, climbing to seventh in the A.P. poll and eighth in the U.P.I. poll. Southern Cal, which romped to its fourth victory without a loss Saturday night against Michigan State, received twice as many first place votes as any team in either set of rankings and retained its number one position. 
The Irish, who easily defeated Purdue, 35-14 last weekend, received 490 points in the A.P. ratings, 23 more than L.S.U. and 69 less than Nebraska. 
Louisiana State was ranked seventh, just ahead of Notre Dame in the U.P.I. poll, garnering 144 points to 137 for the Irish. Washington was ninth, 72 points behind Notre Dame. 
Besides Southern Cal, the only other future Irish opponent ranked in the top 20 was the Air Force Academy, rated 19th by the A.P. and 15th by the U .P .I. 
The rankings: 
AP Poll 
Tilt>-'ff!l Twt>n!y lt'alllf. with .liJ'llol· 
place vQl!'S in pal't'nii!Hes. seasbn Tf· 
co,rds and total points. · Points 
I. Southt>rn CaJifqrnia (36) ...4-0 810 
2. Oklahoma (13). . ....2·0 ~6 
3. Ohio Statf .. 2·0 626 ~-...Iabam¥ . . .J..a 612 ~.Mich•&an (I) ...3-0 565 
t. Sebr~ka . · ....3-1 559 
7. 
S9ll"l' Damr . .. . .. ....2·U 410 

8. 
£0uisiana Stale. . . . ...3·8 467 t• Trxas .. . . .. .. . .2-r 2'tl 


10.. 'f~J'I('sset' " ... . .. . .. . .• ;J..l . 1t7 J~ ~ashington, ......... , .....4-0 I~ 
L Colorado..... : .............3-1 I 
n. Ftoricti.Statr . .. ...........4-0 Ul2 14. UCJ.,~ ....................3-1 1+1 15. Stanford .. .. . . · ........J..O 100 18. Prnn Stair . .. .• ,'. .. . Z·l t7 lf..l\ubunl , ,......,, .........l-8 78 J8. ~l1ssi~ppi.. . .. .. .. ~.. . ...J..O 41 It. _,,r Forti> ........ : . J..& · :Ill Jt:·.fo•n~ Staw,... ......... ,,.... .3·0 J8 
Othj:r:; ~i\'In& VOll'S. listed alplll· bf.tirAilv: ',,rlzona State. Arkansa~. Crorgia·. Oklahoma State. S.Outlw~!l ~lllothst. Tex,s Cbrist1an. yteli,f V1r· g)llla.· 
UPI Poll 
Tlw U11ilf'd Press Intrmatt-' tap 28 
major c.clll~gr foolball trams w•Ul first 
pjace-vo~ and won-lost re~. 
PeWs 

I. Sour.brrn Gal ~22).. ......4.0 33t t. Oklahoma (II) ...........~&. l2l 1 .~labai!UI (I) ...~._ .........4-0 2!2 
•. OhloStatr(l) .. , .......... 2·0 ~ 
S. ~*aska· .. 1;:;... • .......3-1 Jll 1.-~ .:......... : . ....3-o Ull 
r. i.o1UIIn~St.' .. 1............ H• e !\"itrt>IN)ne .. .' ....~ ......;,1.... l. *~011.............~--~n 15 .j, 1~~-.•.·•:.;. " ... :;.......'H .. 
II. #'!Ortda ~ .... Of .... '-•• , ...4-t :M l2..1~l!II(S~.·""'"""~"'"I '7
ll~ \.'C4' ....... ,-.. . ..... -~.1 W 
N. 'lubum .......0 • .. ..J, .....J..t b l~~;il'Forc•,.;;-1.·:_ .. 1..;,. ~ .. J..O .II!~
k I; ·...............,.....3-1 
·17. ,..Oa . ·~ ~-~·~ ., ... :'" ..3-1 ' 
ljl. s.a . . ·~f.-·· ........... : ......Af'' 6.­.a. p ...:·...-.......:'•'·.; . ' !0.·}( . ~~-·· .., ...,:..~ ' f 
the 
ugliest words 
•
1n 


college! 
QUIZ FRIDAY 
on the next 
six chapters 
WHY "SWEAT IT?" 

Your average reading speed probably ranges between 150 and 300 words per minute. Graduates of the Reading Dynamics course read and study at least 3 to 5 times faster than that. And the average graduate of our course actually improves comprehension over 10 per cent. 
Thousands of college students are Reading Dynamics graduates, including over 750 here at Notre Dame. This is the same basic course that first received national recognition When President John F. Kennedy invited Evelyn Wood to the Wh ire House to teach her system to top level staff per sonnel. Recently, 60 members of President Nixon's staff completed the course. 
The best way ro find out about the Reading Dynamics course is to come to a FREE READING LESSON. You will increase your reading 50 to 100 per cent on the spot. Here you'll learn what it's like to be able to read and study 3 to 5 times faster. You will see a short, enjoyable movie and have all of your questions answered. 
ATTEND A FREE SPEED READING LESSON 
Increase your 

eading speed 50 to 
100% on the spot. 
Today & Tomorrow 6:00 and 8:00P.M. 
CENTER FOR 
CONTINUING 
EDUCATION 
NOTRE DAME 
AVENUE 

EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 


.... 
I I ... I 
I 
I 
I l I 
.. 
t 
b)' Vic DolT Hick Slag{'r's placement gave thP 

Iknny Murphy, Notrl' DamP's Irish a 7--0 lead. junior varsity football coach. had SlagPr paddPd the Irish margin PVPr~· right to sound pleasl'd in the S{'COnd period when he 
llis tPam had won its first ganw hootPd a 27--yard field goal. and of thP sl'aSOII, a 17--7 triumph ovPr that was the last scoring for either Michigan's jayvPCs, and they had !Pam until the final period. \\·on it in convincing style. ThP "It was 10--0 at half." said 
hahv Irish. battling Ann Arbor's l\1urphy. "and it was still 10--o at rai1i slickPd artificial turf as WPll the Pnd of thl' third period. But <Is tlw host Wolverines. l'X<'l'llt<'d Michigan finally got a drive going well. hot h offmsively and dl'l'pn latP in the fourth quarter. They 
sively. Tlwy took advantage of had to convPrt four fourth down 1\liehigan's only big mistakP .•• nd situations during that drive. and tlw1· um·Piled a rushing gam<' :h,t: their touchdown came on fourth a<'<:ountt·d for 2:J3 vards. and goal from our two." 
"We kPpt basically to our run­Eduardo (;onzalez picked up rung ~anw." ·:aid the Irish eoach. the tallv for lhl' Wolverines, hut "IH'caus<' of the intermittl'nl NO's ·offense, on its next showl'rs. ThP first t imP we had the possession, killed any comeback hall w<· mowd it real wdl. Wl' kPpt hopes the home team may have it on tht• ground and moved it right had. down tlw fit'ld against thPm. Wt• Starting from their own 27, with didn't gC't a touchdown becausl' of slightly more than five minutes a 15 yard pPnalty, but that first Jpft. thl' Irish moved the ball driv<' gav<' us confidence in our stPadilv on the ground until. with ofi'PIIS('." ninP ~{'conds remaining, Huss 
t)uartPrhack Frank Allocco, who KPrnman hurst up the middle for a din•ctPd thl' Irish attack for threP 12 vard touchdown. • quart PI's. put the Irish on th<• A1:t BPst Ul:J yards l and Hon s<·orPhoard late in the first pPriod. (;oodman<ll2l IPd NO's ground 1\ WolvPrinP fumble gavt> the Irish ganw. whill' Allocco was two of liPid position on the Michigan :!9, Pight lor 41l yards through the air. :md on thl' first play after th<' ThP Irish jayvees. will host a fumhlP Allocco passed to split Pnd rPturn match with the Wolverines i't'l<> lkmnwrle for the touchdown. on October 27th. 
Jim Dona I dson====================================:;:::::::;:::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=: 

The Irish Eye 

::=============================================================================A 
sort of Iove story 

What can you say about a football team that loves blocking, tackling, running, passing and winning? And each other,not necessarily in that order. 
That it's a young team? Yes. That it can score a lot of points? Yes. That the defense is tougher than anyone,even the coaches, had expected? Yes, that too. 
You can say that the team is 2-0, having easily beaten two Big Ten teams. And you can say that the morale on the team is good. Very good, in fact. 
Early this fall, Irish coach Ara Parseghian said, "Attitude can make a big difference in a team. A club with good morale, good leadership and determination can overcome inexperience." 
He couldn't have been more correct. 

Notre Dame has played great football this fall. Morale has been high, the leadership has been supplied by co-eaptains John Dampeer and Greg Marx and several older players, and everyone on the team has been determined to succeed. 
So far, they've been a rousing success. Convincing wins over Nor­thwestern and Purdue have enabled the young Irish to climb from 13th t<) 7th in the national rankings in just two weeks. But you can't find anyone willing to accept more than 1 out of 11th of the credit for the success of his unit. The team's the thing with the 1972 Irish. 
Sophomore halfback Eric Penick, after someone in the locker room had asked him what it felt like to be one of the stars of the Purdue game, replied, "I don't feel like a star--I just feel like I'm playing football for Notre Dame and every game we're playing is for the national cham­pionship. We're a young team, too young to feel we've got individual stars." 
If anyone deserved tha tag of "star" after the Purdue game, it was senior tight end Mike Creaney, who was awarded the game ball Monday for his outstanding performance against the Boilermakers. But Creaney, a three-year starter for the Irish, shrugged off the part he had played in the 35-14 victory. 
"If we win and all I do is block, that's fine," he said. "If I catch a lot of passes and we lose, what good is it?" Creaney also expressed the togetherness that is so evident in this season's Notre Dame team. "We're much more of a team unit this year." he said. "Who cares who does the job. as long as it gets done?" 
One guy who has been doing his job extremely well is sophomore quarterback Tom Clements. His faking and passing ability gives the Irish offense that little extra "something". With Clements running the show. the Irish have a great offense, not just a good one. 
But. when reporters swarm around Clements after the game, he prefers to talk about his teammates, rather than himself. 
When asked about his outstanding passing performance against Purdue <17 of 24, 287 yards and two touchdowns), Clements replied, "I had all day to throw. The offensive linemen did a great job." 
The offensive backs rave about the holes the line has been opening for them, and the linemen love to talk about the power and quickness of the backs. 
The Irish offensive players are also quick to praise their defensive counterparts. 
"I was really happy to see the defense do well," Creaney commented after Notre Dame's shutout win over Northwestern, "especially at the beginning of the season. It should just do wonders for their confidence. They've got a whole lot of talent. The only question mark was their ex­perience." 
Parseghian, of course, has noticed the feeling of unity on his ball club, and attributes it to a combination of several factors. 
"We've been getting excellent leadership, we're a youthful team, and we've been successful early," Parseghian said. "Nothing is more depressing than losing. Winning has been a big morale boost." 
"The enthusiasm of our younger players has been contagious," Par­seghian continued. "But many of the older players have contributed as well." 
Whatever the reasons, the Fighting Irish are more than a winning team this year, they're a happy team. They've had good morale, good leadership and determination. And, as Parseghian predicted, they've been able to overcome inexperience. 
If Notre Dame continues this way, they could well write a love story with a happy ending. 







