--------~-~-~-~----~ 
On The Inside 
Wisconsin Wrap Up ... pg. 2 Student Union Change ... pg. 3 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VI. No. 104 Thursday, April 6, 1972 
New calendar is adopted classes begin on Sept. 6 

by Jerry Lutkus 
Observer News Edito~ 

The Academic Council reversed their decision of March 6 and adopted a new academic calendar with a post-Labor Day start in their meeting on March 
22. Under the new calendar, classes will begin for all students on September 6. 
The semester will be interrupted by a Thanksgiving break, November 22-27. Classes will end on December 14 and finals will go until the 21st. 
The Council was called into special session by the petition of ten members of the board, in accordance with the Faculty Manual. The petition was signed by student representatives Alfred Giuffrida, David Koppana, Frank Palopoli, John Mateja, and Robert Meyers and Prof. Charles Allen, Alfon Veitzinger, David Appel. and Edward Vasta. 
The ten members of the Council who petitioned for the new meeting did so in light of extreme student resJ....;nse to the calendar passed on March 6. A poll taken _prior to the meeting indicated that 92 per cent of the students reached were not in favor of the calendar. 
Meyers, the student representative for the College of Arts and Letters, signed the petition because he felt "the students deserved to be responded to. They have the right to be heard before the Academic Council." 
Meyers, however, did not vote for the new calendar which passed by a 33 to 15 count. He called the first semester "a ratrace" and claimed that the pre-Labor Day Calendar was "something they will have to do in a year or two anyway." 
,a rat race" 

Meyers continued that the students reasons for change "were not valid." He claimed that the faculty "really gets screwed by the short semester" and that the students were being "selfish" with their demands. 
Student representative Fred Giuffrida called the decision "a milestone of sorts." He continued that "it's the first time to my knowledge that the Ad­ministration got beat in the Academic Council. In fact, it's probably the first that anything was. reconsidered in the Council." 
Giuffrida called a student-faculty power coalition "a real possibility", but he added that the students 
1· .\LL SEMESTER I!172 

Sept. 2-4 Sept. 5 Sept. 6 
Sept. 10 
Sept. 11 Oct. 9 Oct. 23 Nov. 1 Nov. 22-26 Nov. 27 Nov. 30 
-Dec. 7 Dec. 8 Dec. 14 Dec. 15-21 
Orientation & Counselling for new students. Hegistration for all students. Classes begin at 8:00 a.m. Formal opening of the school year with Con­
celebrated Mass< Subject to changel Latest date for all class changes. Columbus Day <classes meetl. \'eteran ·s Day <classes meetl All Saint's Day <classes meetl Thanksgiving Holiday begins at noon. Classes resume at 8:00 a.m. Advance Registration for Spring Semester 1972-73 Feast of the Immaculate Conception <classes meet l Last Class Day. Final Examinations (Grades due 48 hours after exam is given. No Sunday exams on Dec. 171. 

"really haven't helped themselves very much." 
,students not helping selves, 
Provost James Burtchaell. also a member of the Council. re-iterated the rationale behind the pre­Labor Day beginning. He claimed that llthe semester which slipped to 66 days was too short for an accredited institution and 2) there was a need for a break in the semester. 
Though he failed to confirm t. Council members mentioned that Burtchaell voted against the new calendar. It was Burtchaell who presented the pre­Labor Day calendar in the March 6 meeting. 
When questioned about the Administration never being defeated before, Burtchaell claimed that he really hasn't been on the Council long enough to make any kind of statement on that. 
spring semester 

The Council also passed by unanimous vote the spring semester calendar that was passed at the earlier meeting. The motion was passed by a voice vote. 
The Spring semester convenes on Tuesday, January 16 for registration and classes commence on the 17th. The term will be split by two breaks March 9 to 19 and Aprill8 to 24. 
Classes are finished as of May 8 with Finals running from the 9 through the 16. 

Jan. 15 
Jan. 16 Jan. 17 Jan. 22 
Feb. 12-16 
Feb. 19 !\larch 8 !\larch 9 
!\larch 19 
April 18 
April 24 
Apr. 25 -!\lay 4 Apr. 26 -1\la~ 3 
l\Iay 8 i\Iay 9-16 
Orientation for new students. Hegistration Day. Classes begin at 8:00 a.m. Latest date for all class changes. Enrollment reservations for the Fall Semester 1973­
74. <Payment of $50.00 fee required.) Washington's Birthday 1classes meet l. l\lidsemester Reports of Deficient Students. l\lidsemester vacation begins after last class. Classes resume at 8:00 a.m. Easter holiday begins after last class Classes resume at 8:00 a.m. Hoom reservations for Fall Semester 1973-74 .\d\'ance Registration for the Fall Semester 1973-74 and for the Summer Session 1973 Last class dav. Ftnal Ex.aminations 1Grades due 48 hours after exam is giv_en. No Sunday exams on !\lay 13 l 

Charlie Chaplin waves to the audience at the Philharmonic Hall during the "Salute to Charles Chaplin." 
Civil Rights series begins 

with Warren 
bv Mfb Baum 
Earl Warren, former Cnief Justice of the United 
States, traced the historical development of civil rights 
in congressional legislation and court decisions when 
he delivered the second of three lectures dealing with 
Civil Rights last night in the Center For Continuing 
Education auditorium. 
Warren explained that, as in his first talk, the lecture 
would be, "singling out race relations rather than 
covering the whole broad field of civil rights and civil 
liberties." <In the previous lecture, Warren had said, 
"The subject of civil rights is of such magnitude, laden 
with so much history, and possessing so many facets as 
to make it impossible of meaningful discussion in all its 
aspects in the brief period of time allotted to this oc­
casion.") 
race relations 
The first lecture, delivered on April 4th, traced the 
development from the earliest beginnings of the course 
of civil rights on this country, especially with regard to 
blacks up to the 11~57 Dred Scott decision under Chief 
Justice Taney. 
Wednesday's lecture continued to trace the historical 
development of civil rights, primarily as seen in 
congressional legislation and court decisions. Starting 
with the Civil War, Mr. Warren followed the 
development of the Emancipation Proclamation, "A 
War strategy as well as a moral commitment," the 
13th. 14th, and 15th Amendments, ending with the 
backward step of the Hayes-Tilden election crisis. 
Warren observed that the election crisis "was stark 
evidence of how, in times of emotion, the President by 
the power of his position can, through subtle phrases, a 
tilt of the head, or a wink of the eye in chosen places, 
actually change the course of history." 
Presidential power 
The lectures by the 80 year old retired justice 
inaugurate a series on Civil Rights to be sponsored 
annually by the Law School in honor of University 
President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh. 
US Repres~ntative John Brademas spoke briefly in 
introduction. citing Fr. Hesburgh as a man he was 
"proud to represent" in the Congress, and praising his 
15 years with the Civil Rights Commission. 
He also praised Mr. Warren, citing the former 
Justice's "historic contributions to the life of our 
people" during his sixteen years as Chief Justice. 
Prof. Francis X. Beytagh, Jr, of the Law School spoke in formal introduction. Beytagh, who once served under Warren as a law clerk, noted, "In a time of cvnicism and self-doubt. ..Chief Justice Warren is a 11·alking example that the System can work." 
lecture today 
The final lecture will be given today in the Center for Continuing Education auditorium at 8 p.m. The talks are open to the general public on a first-come, first­seated basis. and a closed circuit television system has been set up to accomodate the overflow from the small auditorium. 
~ 

the observer Thursday, April 6, 1972 
McGovern beats Wallace 
and Humphrey in WJScons.inl.!!!!~-­


McGovern wins solid voctory in Wisconsin. 
Ry Douglas Kneeland ((') 1!172 New York Times 
Sen. George McGovern of 
South Dakota, in winning a solid 
victory Tuesday in the Wisconsin 
Democratic Presidential Primary, 
captured 54 of the state's 67 
delegates to the party's national 
convention. 
Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey of 
neighboring Minnesota, who ran 
third behind Gov. George C. 
Wallace of Alabama, received 13 
delegates by taking two 
congressional districts. 
Despite his strong race, 
Wallace, whom unofficial returns 
showed with 22 per cent of the 1.1 
million votes cast compared with 
Humphrey's 21 per cent' failed to 
carry any of the nine districts. 
Under the Wisconsin primary 
system II delegates go to the 
statewide winner and the rest are 
apportioned among the highest 
vote-getters in individual electoral 
districts. As a result, Wallace was 
shut out in the battle for delegates. 
McGovern, who received almost 
:lO per cent of the total vote, won 
the at-large delegates as well as 
those from seven districts. 
The newly won delegates lifted 
McGovern's national total close to 
that of Sen. Edmund S. Muskie of 
Maine, who finished a distant 
fourth in this state. 
Wallace. as a result of his victory 
in the Florida primary, is only 
slightly behind, with Humphrey 
trailing. 
St-n. Ht-nry M. Jackson of W 
Washington, who wound up fifth in 
Tuesday's voting with 8 percent, 
has no committed delegates as yet. 
Mayor John V. Lindsay of New 
York. who withdrew from the race 
Tuesday night after it became 
apparent that he had finished last 
among the six active contenders 
here. had garnered a half-<lozen 
delegates at the party's Arizona 
convention. 
President Nixon swept to an easy 
victory in the Republican primary 
Tuesday to pick up the state's 28 
delegates to his party's convention 
in San Diego next August. 
Nixon's only opposition on the 
ballot in an election in which he did 
not campaign were Rep. Paul N. 
McCloskey Jr., of' California, who 
dropped out, and Rep. John M. 
Ashbrook of Ohio, who made no 
appearances in the state. 
With all but 26 of the state's 3,294 
precincts reporting, here are the 
totals for the leading candidates in 
the democratic primary: 
Robinson resigns 

post as dept. head 
James E. Robinson, Chairman, of the English Department, has resigned his post as head of the department. Robinson's resignation was confirmed last­night by Provost Rev. James Burtchaell. Robinson will remain a member of the English Depart­ment. 
McGovern (30 per cent> 
Wallace (22 per cent) 
Humphrey (21 per cent) 
Muskie (10 per cent) 
Jackson <8 per cent) 
Lindsay ( 7 per cent) 
Six other democrats, who did not campaign actively here. were on the ballot. Each received one percent or less of the vote. Their unofficial totals were: 
Former Sen. Eugene J. McCarthy of Minnesota, 15,652; Hep. Shirley Chisholm of New York, 9,106: Mayor Sam Yorty of Los Angeles, 2,376; Rep. Patsy T. Mink Mink of Hawaii, 1,191; Sen. Vance Hartke of Indiana, who has withdrawn, 1,065; and Rep. Wilbur 
D. Mills of Arkansas, 934. 
In the Republican Primary the totals were: Nixon 274,682 (97 per cent l Ashbrook 2,615 (1 per cent) McCloskey 3,488 (1 per cent). 
u.1der Wisconsin law., voters have an option on the ballot of choosing "None of the above." With I,921 voters Tuesday, "none of the above" finished ahead of Hartke, Mink and Mills. On the republican side, "None of the above" did nearly as well, collecting 1,542 votes. 
McGovern, who flew to 
California this morning for fund­
raising dinners in San Francisco 
and Los Angeles, said that he 
thought his Wisconsin victory gave 
him a 50-50 chance for the 
nomination. 
Shying away from the title of 
"front-runner," he would say only 
that his success in this state was a 
first "great step" toward being the 
-~ 
Humphrey attributes his third place finish to the Republican cross-over vote. 
democrats' choice to run against Nixon. 
Humphrey discounted his third­place finish, declaring that a large Republican cross-over vote has muddied the results. Contending that the vote was not a reflection of democratic party members' wishes, he said: "A 60 per cent Hepublican cross-over louses it up and everybody knows it." 
After examining the total ballot cast in each primary, most analysts agreed that about 50 per cent of the nominal Hepublicans who voted took part in the Democratic election. Fewer than 300,000 of the 1.4 million ballots cast were in the G.O.P. 
Hang 'Em High 
SPEND THE SUMMER IN EUROPE lOW COST DEPENDABLE JET FliGHTS TO EUROPE NOW AVAILABLE. 

Choose from more than 40 departure and return dates. NO AGE liMIT; NO TIME liMIT. 
Call EUROPE TRAVEl INFORMATION, 
259-9710. EVENINGS 5-l 1 pm 




Kzjf~!Lflerson 
'{¥_siefLittle Girl L including-Ord 
hen She's W: ostfSoznebod N
rongfSta Y obod K 

gger Mount . ~ no-ws 
aJn Tragedy 
Applications Now Being Taken For the Student Union: 
Associate Director Social Commissioner Services Commissioner Academic Commissioner Cultural Arts Commissioner Business Manager 
Apply 4th Floor offices, Thurs. & Fri. from 2 -5 pm. 
Thursday, April 6, 1972 the observer 
3 

Schneid appointed new Student Union head 
Jim Schneid will serve as the new Student Union Director for next year according to present Director Bill McGrath. McGrath announced the first of newly­elected King R. Calhoun Kersten's appointments yesterday af­ternoon. 
Schneid, presently the Services Commissioner for Student Union, projects in which students who are not in the Union structure use the Union and its money to accomplishtheir ideas. 
hopes  to  concentrate  Student  
Union  on  "participation  type  
projects."  He explained these as  


The junior from Syracuse, New York claimed that the Student Union should be a place for peoplt. who want to do something, to enjoy themselves, and make friends while they're performing a ser­vice. 
There are now 6 positions open under Schneid that he must fill. Included in these are the Com­missioners; Cultural, Social, Academic. and Services; Business Manager, and the Associate Director 
In stressing the participation projects, Schneid noted that Fr. Thomas Blantz, Vice-President for Student Affairs, has approached the Union for help in renovating LaFortune Student Center. "It's this more permanent stuff that the Union should be involved in." 
But he assured the students by claiming that the concerts, movies, and lectures on campus will a "always continue to be high quality." Schneid mentioned that the Union "Might not flood the movie market so much, leaving 
some  room  for  the  other  
organizations."  
When  questioned  about  Ker- 

World Briefs 
<c> 1972 New York Times 
Saigon--As enemy troops and tanks pressed closer to Quangtri, capital of South Vietnam's northern-most province, a North Vietnamese force began another offensive in Binhlong Province, 75 miles north of Saigon. In Saigon, President Nguyen Van Thieu declared in a televised speech that the "decisive battle" of the war was under way. 
llnited Nations. N.Y.--Secretary General Waldheim of the United Nations named Tang Ming-Chao, a mainland Chinese diplomat who was educated in this country and who once edited a Chinese daily newspaper in New York, as Under-Secretary-General for political affairs and decolonization. Sharing his rank with an American, a Russian and an Argentinian, he will be the top ranking Chinese on the 
U.N. staff. 

Milwaukee--Complete returns from the Wisconsin Democratic presidential primary showed that Sen. George McGovern had won 54 of the state's 67 delegates to the party's National convention. Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey, who ran third behind Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama, captured the other 13 delegates by winning two Congressional districts. 
Washington--Elderly, blind or disabled people would be guaranteed a Federal welfare payment of at least $130 a month under an increase in welfare benefits voted by the Senate Finance Committee. The in­crease, the committee said, would raise four million people above the 
poverty line. 


AFRICA 
is what it's all about 
Join a team of dedicated priests and brothers in the largest missionary society on the continent of Africa. The White Fathers of Africa derive their name from their tradi­tional white habit which has come to represent to Africans not only the word but the helping hand of Christ. 
SEND FOR COMPLETE ~ 
INFORMATION Fr. Joseph E. Hebert W.F. White Fathers of Africa 2020 West Morse Avenue 6 
Chicago, Illinois 60645 
NAM~-------------­
ADDRE~•------------­
CITY--------------­STAT~----ZIP___ 
AG~---------------­

people came up with ideas and used the Unions's money and structure. 
"We we were a little hampered though," he continued, by the Student Union money being pretty much accounted for at the beginning of the year." The Union 
arranged what McGrath termed "semi-passive activities"--movies, concerts, lectures. But he now questioned "How many people have met new people at these?" 
"In the beginmng, I thought we could relax the campus with these Student Goverment type activities, but now I know that that isn't the case." 
McGrath looked for Studpnt 

Bill McGrath retires from S.U. 


STUDENTS AND FACULTY 
Director post. 


21 ANDOVER
sten's view of Student Union, Schneid asserted that the King sees the "distinction hetween Student Union and Student 

RENT-A-PINTO 
Government. He sees that the Student Union is a service. It does tangible things. Philosophically, 

$5 A DAY s~ A MILE
there will be no conflict." Retiring Director McGrath claimed that he was pleased with 
Bill Kelley CALL the Union's activities for the year. 
Romy Hammes Chuck Hamilton Bob Atkinson
In comparison with previous 
Fordland Joe Hayden Ford Jordan Motors
years, McGrath said that more South Bend Niles, Michigan Mishawaka 
289-4041 (616 259-1981 

6meraiJ 

Wut8
on campus today 
Sapp~ire
4:00--lecture, prof. mei\Lin zelnik, pre-marital . sexual behavior, library auditorium 
B:OO.. Iecture, earl warren, civil 


18t.jewelra 
rights lecture series, cce auditorium 

' call us ...

at nd-smc 

:lJiamonJ !Jmpol't Compang 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS 
Seen by Appointment Suite 602 St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Phone 287-1427 
Cultural Arts Commission's Performing Arts Series presents 
Union to begin using their funds to pruchase tandem bicycles and canoes for the students, activities more designed for day-to-day use. 
"I'm sorta pleased with the year" he concluded, "but I am disappointed about going over the budget." 
Staff:  
Nite Editor: Layout: JeO'Fries,  Dan'l Barrett rry Lutkus! Beth Hall,  Peter Mary  

Romer (California beauty) Headlines: John Kloos, Kathy Sch­
wille Headliner: Ken Kampman Nite Controller: Joe Wilkowski 





Duke. Ellington 
Tonight, Thurs. April 6 
8:30pm 
at Stepan Center reserved seats $4.00 gen•·•·nl admission $3.00 (PAS pntruns frt't~, 
tickets on sat.~ at th•· tluor 
the observer Thursday, April 6, 1971
4 
Deliberates 59 hours 
. 


Harrisburg jury dismissed 
by Homer Bigart (cl 1!172 New York Times 

HARRISBURG, Pa., The con­spiracy case against the Rev. Philip F. Berrigan and six other antiwar activists ended in mistrial late today. 
After 59 hours of deliberation, the jury reported itself hopelessly deadlocked and was excused without reaching a verdict on the government's charge that the seven conspired to kidnap Henry 
A. Kissinger, . assistant to President Nixon for National Security Affairs. 
I<'ather Berrigan and Sister Elizabeth McAlister, a New York City nun, were convicted of smuggling contraband letters at the I<'ederal prison in Lewisburg Pa. Berrigan faces a total maximum sentence of 40 years on four counts of sending contraband letters out of the prison in 1970, and Sister Elizabeth faces a maximum total sentence of 30 years on three counts of sending illegal letters to Father Berrigan. 
Defense lawyers said it was unlikely that the convictions would stand. The sending of illegal letters into and out of prisons is so com­monplace as to be generally overlooked, they said, and they said they could not recall anyprevious prosecution for contraband mail. 
The government's failure to obtain a verdict on the general conspiracy count may mean the end of prosecution for the other defendants--two priests, the Rev. Joseph Wenderoth and the Rev. Neil McLaughlin; a former priest, Anthony Scoblick, and his wife, Mary Cain Scoblick, a former nun, and Dr. Eqbal Ahmad, a Pakistani scholar, the only non-Roman Catholic in the group. 
The chief prosecutor, William S. Lynch, would not comment on whether the government would seek a retrial on the charge that the seven conspired to abduct

~
, Kissinger, blow up generators in the government's heating tunnels
r 
in Washington, and vandalize draft 

r 
boards in several areas.

r 
The prosecutor found solace in 

r 
r the convictions of Father Berrigan and Sister Elizabeth on tHe 
r smuggling counts. He had por­
r trayed the priest and the nun as ~ ~hotlgh! the.\ 1·; .. ,. • "'. -r-! ·.-.iasr: ·11 Bonnie and Clyde. He told reportt>rs that convictions on "Seven out of 10 counts ain't bad." The defendants, for their part, could not conceal their joy and relief. Earlier a note from the jury room indicated that some con­victions on the conspiracy count were being considered. The seven, who had remained cheerful throughout the long trial, fell grim when the jury foreman, Harold C. Sheets, submitted to Federal District Judge R. Dixon Herman the following question: "Do we find some of the defendants guilty if we have evidence they havP C'Onspired to commit A, B. C, and F offenses relating to the vandalizing of draft boards and the kidnapping of Mr. Kissinger and if we cannot find t•nough evidence that anyone conspired to commit D and E of­fenses relating to the alleged bombing plot?" 
f 
' 
f 
r 
f 


Judge Herman answered af­firmatively. 
Defense Attorneys immediately denounced the judge's action as "amounting to a directed verdict of guilty against at least some of the defendants." The Defense also contendedthat the instruction was inconsistent with the judge's charge to the jury that it would have to find a single over-all conspiracy in order to bring in convictions. 
Sheets indicated in his note to the judge that the jury discussions, which began last Thursday af­ternoon and continued through the Easter weekend, were finally nearing an end. Tension grew. Berrigan, 48 years old, a stern, gray-haired priest described by the Government as the chief strategist of the alleged plot, buried himself in a paperback edition of "Bleak House." Sister Elizabeth, a slender, handsome Brunette, usually smiling, sat soberly by his side. 
The jury deliberated a few more 
hours, found itself unable to agree 
not only on the conspiracy but also 
on count 2, charging Sister 
Elizabeth with sending a kid­
napping threat through the mails, 
and count 3, charging Berrigan 
with the same offense. 

Before newsmen and spectators 
were readmitted to the courtroom, 
the defendants learned that the 
jury was "hung"on the conspiracy 
count. Scoblich and Father 
Wenderoth raised fingers in peace 
signs to the courtroom spectators. 
When the verdict was announced 
and the court recessed, Sister 
Elizabeth hugged everyone within 
reach. 

At a news conference later, 
Sister Elizabeth said, "We have a 
feeling we are celebrating 
something of a victory. But the 
rejoicing doesn't hide our 
awareness of the shoddiness we've 
seen." 

"We shall be out on the streets 
as fast as we can to continue our 
antiwar demonstrations," Ahmad 
said. 

Defense lawyers said that a post­
trial hearing would be held here 
May 2 and 3. Former Attorney 
General Ramsey Clark will argue that the convictions ot Berrngan and Sister McAllister for smuggling letters should be set aside as "discriminatory prosecution," contending that the Jaw on contraband does not apply to letters but to dangerous weapons and drugs. 

Dorms are dull! 

The Notre Dame Avenue Apts Present A Great Change We are 65% filled for r,ext fall 1/2 of these apartments are rented to girls!! 
We also offer 
* 
Close to campus

* 
2 large bedrooms-Room for four students 

* 
large kitchen, dining room and plenty of storage space

* 
Fully carpeted living rooms with a private patio and balcony

* 
9 & 12 month leases 



These apartments are completely furnished (special package price for summer school) 
Renting now for this summer and next fall 
Call 234-6647 Office 919 South Bend Ave. 
South Bend, Ind. 

THE AlA PRESENTS 

Alice's Restaurant 
THURS. APRIL 6 at 6, 8 and 10 Engin. Audit. Admin $1.00 
Now that you can fly to Europe for peanuts, ~ere's h~w little you shell out to get around: 
·$130 for Two Months of unlimited rail travel in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. 
You shell out $130, and get a Student-Railpass. All you need is the bread and something to show you're a bona fide student between 14 and 25. 
Our Student-Rail pass gives you all that unlimhed rail travel on the 100,000 mile railroad networks of those 13 countries. For two foot-loose months. So with low air fares and Student-Rai!pass you've got Europe made. 
Our Student-Railpass gets you Second Class travel on our trains. You'll find that there's very little second class about Second Class. Besides being com­fortable, cle::m, fast, and absurdly punctual, the Euro­pean trains have some other advantages for you. They take you from city center to city center, so you don't have to hassle airports. And the stations are helpful homes ·away from home, with Pictograms that give you informa­tion in the universal language of signs, and dining rooms, 
bookstores and other helpful facilities. 
Now, here's the catch. You can't get your Student-Railpass or the regular First Class Eurailpass in Europe-you have to get them before you leave the coun­try. So see your Travel Agent soon. Meanwhile, send in the coupon for. a free folder, complete with railroad map. 

-----------------------------------------------------------· 
STUDENT·RAILPASS The way to see Europe without feeling like a tourist. 
Eurailpass is valid in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. Eurailpass, Box 90, Lindenhurst, New York 11757. Please send me your free Eurailpass folder with railroad map. 0 Or your Student-Railpass folder order form. 0 
Name_______________________________Street____________________________________________ 


the observer 
5

_!_hur ~dil y, Apr.!_!__~·-~~2 
The founding of the old B.· S. 
The Bull Pen Again Joe Markosek 
part of Sorin 's expedition. Alfred had Nl> decals. \l aeeounting hooks. onP gross of \TS! (•rvPar. overh~ard the good Father talking of a great monagrampd ash trays. 22 Farlpy Strider T· · Th(•(;VPs grew up with the B.S. He helped 
land m Northern Indiana which could shirts and 19 Philosophy textbooks to be his father construct the building which ··-produce unboundless tuition and where used for calming hyper-actives. All of this \lould somPdav house more cans of ;·.Ll football players grew so large and so merchandise came to a grand total of $24. riPod(•rant than· vou can shake a stick at. 
-....~ plentiful that even Paul Bunyan was By today's B.S. standards the tag would bP FathPr and son. ~I'Orking. working, working. . • • overlooked as a number one draft pick. In $479.82 (slightly higher west of Atlantic First camP the floor. then the bookshelves, ~.' ~ other words, what the Count overheard were City I. The future B.S. now had a home-but it \I at!'r coolers which don't work. display ? the plans for the establishment of a great still ,.·,ked a house to put it in. \1 i ndows. cashiers. turnstiles, 
more university--a Christian university in which Lei us retrogress a step or two in the eashiers. the rent-a-cop and those glorious ',. · "love thy neighbor" would be the song and story. The Count was no different than the eash registers. Finally, Theeves pasted on 
. never a bad word be spoken. The Count modern day ND man. He was Polish and he thP "in .. decal and the Counted pasted on the "out." "C'est fini" said the young and old
' could only think of this place in terms of had .tr~uble finding social happiness. But 
peace and wealth. These were the only two non-mtlmacy was not to be his fate. He met Babbininsky in unison. With those words a ingredients which he lacked for a happy life. a local-yocal by the name of Lotta Townie star was born. The Old Country was shaken with wars and and their marriage was soon consumated. Business prospered. More customers 
poverty but the Indiana sycamores seemed The produce of· this union was named were shoplifted per square foot than any only to offer peace and prosperity. With this Theeves. an old Polish name from other area of Notre Dameria. Theeves went 
on the enroll at ND. He was very smart andFather Sorin founded Notre Dame in 1842. in mind, he cajoled Father Sorin into letting 


carried a 4.0 grade point. The Count became Ho¥"'Ver, little is known of the founding of him accompany the expedition. Sorin old. fat and prosperous. His property made
the Bookstore. agreed and with a prayer for good luck, the him a fortune. But alas, this was America. ItFather Sorin traveled with a motly crew. journey was accomplished and the founding became the vogue for businessmen to useAmong them was a little known Polish noble of Notre Dame was celebrated. 
only their initials like J.P. Morgan or B.F.

and entrepreneur, Count Alfred Louis The year was 1842. Father Sorin built the Goodrich. Count Alfred Louis IsidorfeIsidore Babbaninsky. It was to be the Log Chapel, Old College, St. Ed's Hall and Babbaninsky went one step further-heCount's destiny to become the founder of the the Faculty Club. But while the patriarchal shortened his beautiful last name. Thus, we
Bookstore. padre was beginning to realize the fruits of now are able to understand the birth of the The Count was a pleasant, cheerful and his endeavors, Count Alfred was bartering old legend tha~ the Bookstore was foundedcourteous man, armed with a keen eye for with the local Indians, the Rippoffs, for an by
spotting an opportunity and taking ad­area of land just east of present day Badin vantage of it. It had been this way for him Hall and west of the present day K of C. The A.L.I. Babba and the 4.0 Theeves.
all his life. It was even a quirk of op­Count was finally able to persuade the portunism which accounted for his being natives to part with their real estate for 75 
1n the sky-A Hoosier fairy tale

Fire • 

"No, Governor, you don't understand. I Fire in the Sky moved westward, frying The red phone was ringing again. It wasLefty R uschmann saw fire in the sky in Northern Indiana." Fort Wayne, scorching South Bend and the governor.Organ music stirred in the air, as the even bringing Bloomington to a boil.' But 
"Well, what about it? Do we have a real

Governor blurted out a reply. chasing the fireball was a Hub Airlines 4­
disaster? That means I'll miss my Grange 

"Yes, there's fire in the sky down here, sea~er, piloted by Johnny Crop, All­
meeting."

too. A few minutes ago, the Lieutenant Indiana Boy and official4-H Club aviator. Governor staggered in here, blind. Had to He was summoned from singing all four 
."No_. Governor, I'm happy to report that <Author's note: Indiana is a drab, make a basketball ref out of him." verses of the Star-Spangled Banner by a Fire m the Sky is dying over LakeMidwestern state whose only purpose is to "Listen, Governor," the Doctor ex­special phone call from the Governor 

Michigan." •keep Michigan from leaking into Kentucky plained, "do you know what the water carrying the secret message: 'Don't drink 

and floating down the Ohio River. But it cycle is?" until you're of age." Now Johnny was in "Michigan? Say it again. Michigan, 
please say it."

does have a rich folklore, and this little the air; next to him, in the cockpit was a 
fable is an example of the Hoosier State's "Is it anythink like a unicycle?" year's supply of snowballs, his for only a ·:No, I said Lake Michigan. But anyway, 
we re safe! You and the family and allfertile farmland.... oops, I mean "No. it's evaporation-condensation­hundred end flaps from Puring Gerbil Hoosiers, can live in peace." ' 

imagination.) precipitation, except that here in Indiana, Chows, the only ones that make their own "And it's a damn good thing, too. Ithe third step occurs without the other gravy woul~n 't want my daughter to spend hertwo." 
Johnny Crop ducked behind a pick set by 18th birthday in sunlight."
"Well, what about it? Will it mean two · cumulus clouds and shot at the<gulp> higher taxes?" 
fireball. Short. Another shot was wide of ,...........-.----------~~~~
"No. not at all. Our job is to seed the the mark and the third was blocked by aclouds with snow balls and help the cycle wren. Johnny stopped to think. "Gee,Dr. Hayseed HacknPyed was heading along. If it works, the clouds will return." 
~aybe of I shot at the ground. I'd have a 1from the J.:1h ~~ ISFR returning home in ., 5 . · right or it. Dies it have to be uetter chance of hitting it.· 1i had not thoughthis 1955 Chevy Clichemobile, dog-tired and done today'?" 
Johnny too~ careful aim at the ground ! life had undoneready for a cold can of Stroh's by the old Doctor Hackneyed. unable to contain his and. on the third throw was crowned with ' so many
TV. During the night. the good doctor had slammed on the 

rage, the phone down 
success. He turned his plane around and
varnished and re-painted the Periodic console. The computer belched in a most 
headed back home, wherever that was to
Table. called the Del Operator for indelicate manner. 
his best girl waiting on the runway in her
Avogadro's Number, and discussed the Meanwhile, panic began to grip the Free 
asbestos dress. It was damn hot.
Laws of Gravity in relation to recent State of Indiana. News announcers in­
Later in the afternoon, when the last
Supreme Court decisions. In short, it was a 
terrupted their grain-prices to broadcast 
drops of sanity had been drawn from the
long night. first a Fair Weather Alert, then a Fair 
Main Street of toe Midwest, Dr.
He plodded across the endless tundra of Weather Warning. Hoarders ransacked 
Hackneyed looked out the door to see what
subarctic Indiana. wondering if the per­the Drewry's plant and carried off the St. 
the weather was. Eureka! The menan­
sistent snow squalls would ever stop, now Joe River. Indiana's entire corn crop 
cing fire ball had turned bloody red,
that Memorial Day had come and gone. He turned to popcorn, but it was useless -the 
swelled to enormous size, and sunk into the 
thought of a dirty joke about improper oil supply had dried up! Even high school lake!
fractions that his lab assistant had told basketball practices were postponed. And him: he laughed again to himself and then in communities with public schools, "Yup. it's Chicago's problem now, " he mused.
suddenly brought the car to a screeching women and children took shelter. 
halt. mouth agape. There. in the East, was 
a huge orange ball hanging over the rim of 
-· ---'I /

--_._...,...--' ·'
the earth. against a backboard of blue /
~­

sky! "No time to lose," he mumbled to . . J himself. and scurried into a nearby barn. 
• 
..

the permafrost melting and nearly 
swallowing him whole. As luck might have 
it. there were neither swine nor cattle in 

the barn but a sophisticated (because it spoke with a New York accentl computer system. Hidden among the memory banks : was a red telephone--could this be the 
answer? Dr. Hackneyed pressed the big button \marked "PRESS THIS BUTTON" and 
\.

waited. Presently a gruff voice answered. "This is Cigar D. Halfwhitcomb, 'I 
j

Governor of Indiana. Kill Commies." 
"Oh hell." muttered the Doctor. "I thought I'd reached someone who could help out." 
"Well. spit it out. son. Indiana Pull isn't a charity outfit. you know." "There is c~·uuuie in Northern indiana. 
-~~,li)TPr' 1\ ~ MC 
..a.·.. ~J";. .. ~ -· .........
\,uv~rnur . :mr. .. ·1 K.nor. a._ ·-·'"Jli. Michigan.'' 
for here ·i·~ a land where "you" and "i" are just parentheses, we keep binding up what binds us up: greetings, propositions. exclamations, <maybe even a rushed ejaculation? and when i stop stopping to see if i can see whether the world is a world that makes a word count, then this land is real and knows it's real. but if i leak for a word that is a word that makes the world count, then i see that the land 
·.'~:;.,. 
was sent to be doubted, ';,.·:.·· 
.~~-}~~
and see its doubt. 
and if i guess that "we" :-;fik: 
is a substantive 
then i really understand 
for to show a world 
to think 
how to think 
it had not thought 
is just act 
-to really cur~, in"': tia on a Monday uwrning is to walk away 
from Sunda;· night 



the observer Thursday, April 6, 1972
6 
Academic Vice President sought by SMC committee 
by Beth Hall 

The new St. Mary's president, Dr. Edward Henry, has created the post of Academic Vice President to handle the academic affairs of the college. A search committee composed of six faculty members and two students has been selected to screen appli<.~tts for the new position. 
Members of the committee received letters from Dr. Henry yesterday informing them of the selection. The faculty represen­tatives were chosen by a faculty assembly, while Saint Mary's Student Government selected the two student members. 
Dr. Anthony Black, Associate Professor of History will serve as chairman of the search committee. 
The other faculty members are: 

Mrs. Josephine Barallat of the 



Close...but no cigar! 

Managnment students from the College of Business Administration af the University of Notre Dame came within an eyelash of capturing their second first place trophy in three years at the National Business Games contest sponsored by Emory University of Atlanta. Less than one point separated the Notre Dame group from the victorious Harding College of Searcy, Ark., in the competition concluded this week. Adding their second runner-up trophy to a collection that included a first place trophy in their first year of competition in 1970 are, seated from left, Tom D'Aquila, accounting major from Hibbing, Minn.; Craig Hoyt, marketing major from Columbus, Ohio, and James Lockhart, accounting major from Duluth, Minn. All are seniors. Standing, left to right, are George E. Manners, assistant professor of management; vicent Raymond, assistant dean of the college, and Donn J. Novotney, assistant professor of management. The Notre Dame students won the championship of the industrial division over students from more than 40 colleges or univer­sities in a computer assisted management program for a firm manufacturing table flatware. 
-
Jane Sheehy: student member of search committee. 
Modern Language Department; Dr. Carole DeMort, Biology; Sr. 

Special prices on diamonds ND students. 
Just show your 

1.0. cards at any of our stores 
Miriam Patrick Cooney, Chairman of the Mathematics Department; Professor Donald Honing, Chairman of the Sociology Department; and Dr. Harold Weiss, Religious Studies Chair­man. 
Jane Sheehy and Natalie Dwyer are the student representatives on the committee. Ms. Sheehy has served as Coeducation Com­missioner. and Ms. Dwyer is Academic Affairs Commissioner. 
Dr. Henry will decide the func­tion the new position which will be "similar to that of an academic dean, according to Dr. Black. 
Candidates for the position are being sought through a weekly paper The Chronicle of Higher Education. and from Saint Mary's. Dr. Black also intends to ask the faculty for nominations. 
The Academic Vice President will replace the position now held by Dr. Jack Detzler, who will have a new assignement and increased teaching load in the history department next year. 
The search committee will meet next Tuesday to organize and form guidelines for the selection. A 
meeting with  Dr.  Henry  is  
scheduled  for  the  following  
Saturday.  

Dr. Anthony Black: Search committee chairman. 

''LONG HAIR''. 
Strictly Caranaby St. 

The British Shag is here. If you have long hair Continental's Artists can trim it for a bloody true Shag, as desired, with or without kitties.
a 
The new limey shag (LONG HAIR) is the bloody sensation, as desired, for the young HARE SET with kitties only. 
Healthy hair is our business. 

1 
-~,_...._......11..-il' HAIR STYLING, LTD.~ SI<~B\ING TilE N.D. COMMUNITY FOR OVER 4 YEARS 
Call ~59-7679 for APPOINTMENT 
J:l~l E. McKinley Ave., Mish. <next door to !\ormain Pharmacy l !Special Student Rates Every Dayl 


BE'I.IER LOOKING AT UNION ~ith CONTACT LENSES 
No hassle. Slip into the action with better vision without bother. Contact lenses help you see better, 
keep you looking great. Feel free to join the action 
with contact lenses ... You get better looking at 
Union. 

Phone 875-5183 

1974COULD ~YOUJUST ANOTHER COUEGEGRAD ORAJR.EXECIN MANAGEMENT. 
If you're a young man or woman with 2 academic years remaining either at the undergraduate or graduate level, you can apply for entry in the Air Force's 2-year ROTC program, offered on college campuses all across the country. If you qualify, you'll receive a $100 a month, nontaxable subsistence allowance. And on graduating, you'll receive an officer's commission in the Air Force. Also, this year, for the first time, the Air Force is offering hundreds of scholarships in the Air Force ROTC 2-year program paying full tuition; lab expenses; incidental fees; a text­book allowance and the same $100 each month, tax free. For more information, mail in the coupon today. Or, call 800-631-1972 toll free.' Enroll in the Air Force ROTC, and get your future off the ground. 'In New Jersey call 800-962-2803. 
r-----------~-----------------------1 
U.S. AIR FORCE RECRUITI~G SERVICE 2 N R 42 DIRECTORATE OF AD\'ERTISI~G (APV) RA~DOLPH AIR FORCE BASE. TEXAS 78148 
Plea>e s~nd me more informdtion on Air Force ROTC 
~ame______Date of B~rth __Scx_ 
Address'------------­
C~ty_-________St.ltc____z,r-­
Date of Graduation•-------C<.>llege ----­I understand there IS no uhl1gatllm. 

Find yourself a scholarship in Air Force ROTC. 
~-----------------------------------~ 
I I 
L 

.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
7

Thursday, April 6, 1972 the observer 
ND gridders begin Spring drills 

by Jim Donaldson 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame football teams always stress defense and, with the opening of spring drills yesterday, it appears that coach Ara Par­seghian and his staff will devote even more time than usual to that facet of the game. 
With eight of 11 starters, in­cluding All-Americans Walt Patulski, Mike Kadish and Clarence Ellis, graduating in June, the Irish defensive unit is in need of a virtually total rebuilding job. 
In contrast, the Irish offense, last spring's trouble spot, appears fairly solid, despite the loss of veterans Ed Gulyas, Bob Minnix, Dan Novakov, Jim Humbert, and Notre Dame's all-time leading pass receiver, All-American Tom 


Track team wins 1 out of 3 
by Eric Kinkopf 
The Notre Dame track team opened its 1972 outdoor season with a short trip to Tennessee over Easter break and returned to the ND campus with both encouraging and discouraging reports. 
Coach Alex Wilson's charges won one of the first three meets, defeating Middle Tennessee in Murfreesboro, 77-67 on March 28th, and placing a distant third to Tennessee and Wisconsin in a triangular meet in Knoxville on April 1st. 
The optimism came in what Coach Wilson termed "a few pleasant surprises." 
"We looked really sharp at Tennessee," Wilson said, "and Bill Phillips (quarter mile), Dan Cree han (440), and Rick Vallicelli 
(220) looked like they're really coming on. The team as a whole took a step up." 
The bad news came in the form 
of ·a untimely injury to sprint 
specialist Eric Penick.. After 
posting double victories in the 100 
and 220 yard dashes at Middle 
Tennessee, the fleetfooted Penick 
pulled a muscle in the 100 at 
Knoxville and will probably be out 
for a month, curtailing both his 
track efforts and his spring foot­
ball hopes. 
"Losing Eric is a big loss for us," 
Wilson said. "Not only will it hurt 
us in the dash events, but Jt's also a 
blow to our sprint relay team." 
Paced by Eric's double victory 
at MT. the Irish copped nine first 
places. 
Elio Polselli also captured two 
blue ribbons, winning both of the 
discuss and shot events. 
The muscular Canadian easily 
outdistanced the field in the 
discuss throw with a toss of 173-10. 
Junior Bill George finished second 
to Elio in that same event with 
an effort of 128-2. 
1972 NCAA indoor high hurdles 
champ Tom McMannon won the 
120 yard highs with a time of 14.1, 
while brother Mike finished second 
in 14.3. 
The individual milers managed a sweep in the mile events as Mike Gahagan took the mile with a time of 4:19.8 and Dan Dunne capped the two mile with a 9:23.9 clocking. 

Kane, Block named swim MVP, captain 
Freshman Jim Kane was named 
the Most Valuable Swimmer on 
Notre Dame's 1971-72 team while 
junior George Block of Yorkville, 
Ill. was elected captain for next 
year's team. 
Kane, a Owings Mills, Md., 
native posted varsity record times 
of 48.5 in the 100 freestyle and 
1:48.2 in the 200 freestyle. Sophomore Ed Graham was named the Most Improved Swimmer after establishing a varsity record of 2:02.8 in the 200 individual medley. 
Senior captain Brian Short won the Blanchard Award for the 
second straight year for in­spiration and leadership. 
Frank Pokigo and Scott McFarlin wrapped up the Irish firsts with victories in the javelin and pole vault events respectively. 
At Knoxville it was a different story though, as the Irish finished well be hind Tennessee 003 points) and Wisconsin (50 points) with a point total of 38. 
Only Greg Cortina in the shot put (56-91fz) and Elio Polselli in the discus 078-8) managed firsts in 
. the Volunteer triangular. 
Gatewood.Sixteen of the club's 20 returning monogram winners played on the offensive unit last fall. 
Revi~wing his team's aims in the weeks ahead, Parseghian said, "We've got to find a lot of key replacements on defense and also continue to experiment on other changes with both units. We must also develop depth--you can't figure to have an injury-free season." 
Only co-captain Greg Marx, an All-American prospect at tackle, and linebackers Jim Musuraca and Jim O'Malley return from last season's highly touted defensive­team. 
Marx (6'5,245) was the second leading Irish tackler last fall, making 85 stops, and is expected to 
"Actually we ran well at Ten­nessee," reasoned Wilson, "but our lack of depth hurt us." 
Dan Dunne posted good efforts in the three mile (14:23.5) and steeplechase (9: 35.7), finishing behind nationally ranked Vol ace Doug Brown in both events at Knoxville. 
Tom McMannon failed to duplicate his time of 14.1 in Murfreesboro at Knoxville and slipped to a 14.3 on a wet Tennessee track for the first runner-up spot. 


Irish stickmen 
by Andy Scantlebury 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team returned home Tuesday night after completing a highly successful trip to California during the Easter break. During their two week stay on the west coast, the Irish won three of four games, including an 11-5 win over the Orange County Lacrosse Club, the number 1 club team in Southern California. 
The Irish opened their 1972 season on a losing note, dropping their March 26th opener to the Los Angeles Lacrosse Club, 10-7, in Westchester, Cal. 
Two goals by freshman mid­fielder Steve Tarnow and single efforts by co-capt. Ed Hoban, John Corcoran, and Rich Mullin gave the Irish a 5-2 half time lead and Notre Dame seemed to have the game under control. 
But second half offensive in­consistency and a third quarter defensive lapse led to seven unanswered L.A. goals. Dave Jurusik and B.J. Bingle added fourth quarter tallies, but time ran out on the Irish. It was a tough loss for the Irish, especially for junior goaltender Paul Simmons who played a fine game. L.A. took advantage of Notre Dame penalties, scoring six of their goals while the Irish were a man down. 
Two days later the stickmen had little trouble disposing of a weak 
U.C.L.A team, 10-6, despite sloppy play by both teams. 
B.J. Bingle and Mullin gave the Irish a quick 2-0 lead, and N.D.'s Rich Marrinangelli matched a UCLA goal at the close of the quarter for a 3-1 Irish advantage. 
The Irish wasted little time adding to their lead in the second quarter as B.J. Bingle and Bill Dacey scored in the first two minutes. Notre Dame continued to dominate play and. after UCLA tallied, Dacey added another marker and fresh­man John Corcoran scored his second goal of the year. 
The highlight of the quarter was the defensive play of goalie Jim Roller and his three defensemen, Tim Baker, Fred Morrison, and anchor the club's forward wall, greatly weakened by the departure of Patulski, Kadish and Fred Swendson. 

Senior Tom Freis troffer, a top reserve last season, and freshman grid and wrestling standout Mike Fanning (6'6,260) are the top prospects at defensive end, just ahead of junior Jeff Hein, senior George Hayduk and frosh Tom Fine. · 
Freshman Kevin Nossbusch (6'4,255), junior Dick Maciag (6'5,250) and sophs Dennis Lozzi and Greg Szatko will be bidding for Kadish's vacated tackle spot. 
Juniors Musuraca and O'Malley, both powerful tacklers, give the Irish some strength at linebacker and would seem to have their starting positions sewn up. Two other juniors, Mike Webb and Pat McGraw, are likely candidates to land the other two backer-up spots, but they'll have to fight off challenges from sophomores Tom Devine, Tim Sullivan, Brian Clemente and Gary Potempa and freshman Sherm Smith. 
Defensive backfield coach Paul 
Shoults will have to start from 
scratch after losing Ellis, Ralph 
Stepaniak and Mike Crotty. In 
addition, only junior Ken Schelezes 
saw much action last year. Other 
prospects are juniors Joe Haggar, 
Terry Garner and Dan O'Toole, 
soph Mike Townsend and frosh 
ReggieBarnettandJim Chauncey. 
The offensive outlook is 
somewhat brighter than the 
defensive picture. Starters Frank 
Pomarico, John Kondryk, Dave 
Casper, John Dampeer and Mike 
Creaney return to give the Irish an 
experienced front line while let­
termen Cliff Brown, Pat Steen­
berge, Gary Diminick, Darryl 
Dewan, Larry Parker, Greg Hill, 
Andy Huff and John Cieszkowski 
will vie for starting backfield 
t 
~.. 

Guards Pomarico, a sophomore, and Kondryk, a junior, both played over 300 minutes a year ago, as did Dam peer, co-captain and veteran tackle. Casper, a soph, switched from tight end to tackle after Humbert was hurt at mid-season and did a fine job, while the tight end position is in the capable hands of junior Mike Creaney. 
Dave Drew, a junior, will battle with soph Joe Alvarado and fresh­man Lorenzo Scott for the center spot vacated by Novakov while frosh star Pete Demmerle will 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team, after winning three of four matches on its Spring tour of California, takes time to enjoy the sun and fun of the Golden State. The Irish stickmen pictured are, from left to right, sitting, Tom Parseghian, Rich Mullin, Joe Anderson, Bill Foley, John Downling, Jim Brown, Gary Riopko; kneeling, Paul Simmons, John Corcoran, Jim Lepley, Rich Caron, Jim Roller, Rich Marrinangelli, Tim Baker; stan­ding, Coach Rich O'Leary, Bill Dacey, Ed Hoban, Paul Reagan, Bob Kelly. Joe Lepley, Ernie Bergkessel, Steve Tarnow, Ron Sadowski, Hank 
Hoban, Dave Jurusik, Bob Cullen. Bill Foley. Four Notre Dame penalties enabled the Bruins to play "man up" lacrosse for the final six minutes of the session, but they could only score once as Roller was sharp in the nets. The Irish did all the scoring in the third quarter. Jim Brown scored early on a great pass from 
B.J. Bingle and attackmen Joe Anderson and Rocco Sadowski added goals. In the fin~l stanza, Roller was replaced by Joe Lepley and, despite a shaky start, the sophomore from Tulsa came up with severaLgood stops. The final score of 10-6 was closer than the game actually was, but Notre Dame still showed signs of in­consistency. 
The Temple City Lacrosse Club was the next Irish opponent, and the two teams met in a night affair at Temple City. Notre Dame put together a great offensive show, winning 14-6, as eight different players scored. 
B.J. Bingle got things started in the first quarter with three quick goals and after Dave Jurusik converted on a "man up" situation. Bob Cullen took the ensuing face-off, beat two Temple City defenders and scored his first. 



in California 

goal of the year. 
The second quarter belonged to Ed Hoban as he connected twice. Mullin added one more and at the half the Irish led 8-2. 
Jurusik's midfield line dominated the offensive action in the third quarter. The junior from Elmira, N.Y. picked up his hat trick by scoring twice. His linemates chipped in three more 
Interested in making money? 
Conveni·ent Hours: 
( 
Secretarial work 



Call 7757 2-5pm 
for Gatewood's split end spot. 
Brown, a soph, returns as the number one quarterback but will be pressed for the top job by junior Pat Steenberge and freshman Tom Clements. And, once again, Parseghian can boast of an abundance of talented running backs, bolstered by the addition of freshman speedster Eric Penick and two other talented yearlings, Ron Goodman and Wayne Bullock. 
The Irish kicking game should be outstanding as punter Brian Doherty and place · kicker Bob Thomas, both sophomores, return. 
goals, with Tarnow getting two and John Corcoran one. Jim Brown also connected. Paul Simmons was brilliant in the nets allowing just three goals and making several spectacular saves. 
The final game was with the tough Orange County club and the Irish put together an outstanding effort winning 11-5. Orange County 

-
scored quickly, but the Irish kept their poise and took control of the offensive at1ac.k. Mullin scored twice, Hoban and B.J. Bingle once apiece, and after one quarter it was 4-1, Irish. 
Mullin, Hoban, Brown and B.J. Bingle tallied in the second quarter as Notre Dame dominated play. Jim Roller made several great stops in the·nets and the Irish were up by six, 8-2, at halftime. 
In the third quarter the Irish continued their fine defensive play while Hoban picked up two more goals and B.J. Bingle also scored, boosting the Irish lead to 11-4. 
The seven goal deficit forced Orange County to change their deliberate style of play in the fourth quarter but they could only come up with one goal. 
The talented Irish meet Wooster 
College this Saturday at Wooster, 
with high hopes for victory after 
their fine early season per­
formances. 
.. 

the observer Thursday, April_ 6, 1972
8 
Kersten extends open invitation to his Inaugural Ball this Friday 
An open invitation to the student bodies of Notre Dame and St. Mary's to his upcoming Coronation and Inaugural Ball this Friday, April 7, was issued by R. Calhoun Kersten, student body president­elect. 
The Coronation, during which the Prime Mover will crown himself, will be held on the steps of the Administration Building at 7 pm, and the Ball will immeciately follow in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The Prime Mover stipulated formal dress only for the ceremonies. 
The invitation, originally sent to various select students reads, 


Ellington to play 
Saturday 
The jazz band that rocked the 19:lO's--and every decade since-­will present a one-night stand in Stepan Center at the University of Notre Dame on April 6. Duke Ellington's orchestra, fresh from a concert tour of Russia where they were greeted by 45-minute ovations will be sponsored by the Performing Arts Series of the Cultural Arts Commission, in the program beginning at 8 p.m. 
Famous for such musical masterpieces as "Mood Indigo," "Sophisticated Lady," "Satin Doll," and "Traffic Jam," Ellington recently added a new dimension to his talented career when he composed and performed music for a series of sacred con­certs in the nation's major cathedrals. Record albums of his now include such numbers as "In the Beginning God," "Come Sunday," "David Danced Before the Lord," and "New World A­Coming." 
Now 68, Ellington has had a band since Coolidge was in the White House. He has performed more than 1,000 songs in his 40-year career that spanned the eras from the Charleston to Bop. Discussing his recent interest in liturgical
-
jazz. Ellington has commented, "For far too long we have accepted Victorian religious music as a lasting criterion rather than social and artistic expression of a closed page of history. May I suggest that it is blasphemous to imply that God shares the bad taste of some of his worshippers or is insensitive to changing times?" Heserved seats for the Notre Dame appearance are priced at $4 and may be purchased at Pan­dora's Book Store, Witmer­McNeese Music stores and AI Smith's Hecord Bar. A limited number of $3 general admission tickets are on sale at the same outl£>ts. 

. 
~ 
•

·.. '1. 
Duke Ellington 

10% OFF 
On any mechanical 
work and winterizing. 
For students and 
University Personnel 

Roseland Gulf 402 U.S. 31 North Across frnm ~ure~r King 
By Royal Decree your personage and consort are summoned 
to The Coronation and Inaugural Ball of his Divine Majesty, Ruler of both Seas, Lord Protector of the Illiterate Rabble, Speaker of the 
Ultimate Truth, Defender of the
Faith, Lion of Judea, Son of David, Lord of the Flies, Imperial Wizard, First Violin, Lord of the Rings, Sargeant of the Shire, Thane of Cawdor, Celestial In­terpreter, Dweller of the Blessed Realm, The Grey Pilgrim, the Ultimate 
Prime Mover 

R. CALHOUN KERSTEN paramour of Yahweh on the seventh day of April, nineteen hundred and seventy-two in the year of Our Lord. The Coronation will commence at the hour of seven on the steps of the 
Golden Tabernacle The Inaugural Ball will follow immediately in the main ballroom of the LaFortune Illiterate Rabble ('enter. 
Music for the Ball will be sup­
plied by two orchestras: a presently unknwon string Or­
chestra,  from St. Mary's and Ox  
Pedal.  
A  one  dollar  per  couple  con­ 

tribution will be collected at the door to defray expenses and for the benefit of Students World Concern. 
r·.i:.··. 
. 
The First Violin 


Clothes and things 
Men's Boutique 




tlte Ptt SttJp 
"On the Mall" -McKinley Town & Country Shopping Center -Mishawaka, lndhma Phone 25!1­7:135 

IRELAND'S FIGHT FOR FREEDOM  
THE IRISH CRISIS TltE C. Desmond Greaves Paper $2.65 IRISH CRISIS The roots of Ireland's Civil Rights Movement are sharply traced from Partition (1920) to the present armed struggle. The author, editor of the Irish Democrat (London), shows that a united Ireland would be in the interest of both the English and Irish peoples. THE LIFE AND TIMES OF JAMES CONNOLLY C. Desmond Greaves Paper $1.65 A classic biography of Ireland's great­est labor leader who was executed by the British for his role in the Easter Re­bellion of 1916. He was a founder of the modern Irish Socialist and republi­can movements, as well as of the American IWW.  
INTERNATIONAL PUBLISHERS 381 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10016  
0 ,.,..~,. IRELAND AND THE:.!..i.J J:J.,L.:j~2J IRISH QUESTION~~OOJTOO~ l.RlSr.t Q~ 71'tS11~~\" Marx & Engels Paper $2.95 Marx and Engels' attention to the problems of Irish freedom is strikinglylA documented in these writings. SomeA:C.:S:tm cf'W~tir.;£hj' appear for the first time in English, in­KllRbMI\RX cluding notes and fragments from En­~~~6 gels' unfinished history of Ireland. IRELAND I~ '\. HER OWN ,hu·I,;.OotCnl T. A. Jackson Paper $1.95 IJ•phuu IIPr The conquest of Ireland started Eng­( )" ll land on its way toward Empire and subsequent acts of colonial suppres­sion. The full story of the Irish people's eight hundred years of struggle for freedom is told in this concise, excit­ing history.  


BEST BANDS IN TOWN 
-Two Bands a night -Dancing 6 nights a week 
(closed Monday.) -No cover on Tues., Wed., Thurs. -0pen till 2 a.m . 
"One stop entertainment center"
_..._. 
CocKtail lounge Bowling Billiards 

SJ.u/a's J\lite C/ut 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
616/683-4350 









