
On The Inside 
Info on the frosh elec­tions ...page 3 
Today's chess pairings ... page 6 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 24 Wednesday, October 11, 1972 


Sargent Shriver, Democratic Vice-Presidential candidate, will speak today at 1::10 p.m. at Stepan Center. The speech will be particularly directed toward the University community. Shriver, a long-time friend of Notre Dame, will be accompanied by his wife, Eunice Kennedy Shriver. 
HPC explores funding methods 
by Jim Eder Observer Staff Reporter 
A special committee was appointed by t~e Hall President's Council last night to find both a dtf~e~~nt method of allocating funds from Student Activities Fees and an alternative to the present form of student government. 
Dissatisfaction with the student government's recent budget proposal sparked the fo!mat~on of the com­mittee, which includes Chns Smgleton, Fred Baranowski, Ron Paja, Jim Clarke and Walt Spak. They will present their findings to the HPC for discussion at its next meeting. 
Steve Jeselnick executive coordinator of the HPC, had requested th~ student government finance com­mittee to allocate $10,000 for the Hall Life Fund and $3 700 for the annual An Tostal weekend, a total of $13,7000. The proposed budget announced yesterday falls $6,850 short of this mark. It allows only $4,250 for the Hall Life Fund and by its new Hall Grant Program limits the funds for An Tostal weekend to $2,600. 
HPC Chairman Butch Ward accused the stud~nt government of being ineffective and unrepresentative of the student body. 
"Hall life is what is really important on this campus, and the HPC is more closely associated with it than any other organization "he said. "Yet the budget allocates $14,900 to a student government that does nothing but only $6,850 to us." 
(continued on page 7) 
Jeselnick: HPC will try to inadequacies. 

Post reveals 
•
esp1onage 

scandals 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Washington--An assistant attorney general of Tennessee said Monday night that he was approached in the summer of 1971 and was aksed to conduct political espionage against the Democratic Presidential can­didates. 
Alex B. Shipley, a long-time Democrat who is now an assistant attorney general of Tenessee, said that Donald Herbert Segretti, a treasury department lawyer in 1966 and 1967 whom he met in Vietnam, approached him on June 27, 1972, to help disturp the Democratic primaries. . . 
Shipley recalled in an interview Monday night that Segretti had said that the sabotage and espionage campaign was being made on behalf of President Nixon and that "Nixon knows something was being done for him." 
The Washington Post reported Monday night that in addition to Shipl~y, two other lawyers who Segretti met in Vietnam were approached by him to do political espionage work. 
The Post said that it was part of a "massive campaign of political spying and sabotage conducted on behalf of President Nix?n's re-election and directed by officials of the White House and the committee for the re­election of the president." 
The Post said that the sabotage effort included "following members of the Democratic candidate-s families forging letters and distributing them under the candidates letterhead, leaking false and manufactured items to the press, throwing campaign schedules into disarray, seizing con­fidential campaign files, and investigating the lives of dozens of Democratic campaign workers." 
The Post also reported that one aspect of what is called the Nixon Re­election Committee's "offensive security" program involved a politically critical letter about Sen EdmundS. Muskie written to a New Hampshire newspaper shortly before that state's Democratic primary election in March. 
According to the Post, Ken W. Clawson, Deputy Director of Com­munications for the White House, told one of its reporters on Sept. 25 that he had written a letter to the Manchester, N.H., Union-Leader alleging that Muskie then front-runner for the Democratic Presidential nomination had condoned the use of the term "Anuck" as a description of Americans 'or French-Canadian descent. 
The newspaper printed the letter Feb. 24, less than ~wo weeks be~ore 
the New Hampshire primary, signed by a Paul Mornson of Deerfield 
Beach Fla. The letter charged that Muskie had laughed at the 
description "Canuck" during a campaign appearance in Florida earlier 
that month. 
The Post said that Marilyn Berger, a State Department correspondent 
for the paper, said that Clawson had told her last month that "I wrote the 
letter." 

In an emotional speech outside the Union-Leader office on Feb. 26, the 
Senator denied having used or condoned the slur, saying "I'd never use 
that term with respect to another ethnic group." 
A White House switchboard operator said Monday night that Clawson 
had "retired" and was not taking any more calls. 
The Post quoted Clawson as denying authorship of the controversial 
letter and saying that Miss Berger had "misunderstood" him. 
"I knew nothing about it," he reportedly said. 
Shipley said that he had met Mr. Segretti when they served together in 
Vietnam in 1968 and 1969 and that they had been captains in the Army 
Judge Advocate General Corps. 
Shipley said that they had become friends and that he and two ?ther 
lawyers who, according to the Post, were also approached by Segretti had 
met in a reunion in San Francisco last summer. 
After the reunion, Shipley said that Segretti came to Washington to 
meet with him on June 27. Shipley said that during a ride with Segretti 
from the Georgetown Inn to Dulles Airport, Segretti had told him that if 
he participated in the sabotage, "He would be taken care of." 
One of the other lawyers, J. Peter Dixon of San Francisco, said that he 
received a telephone call from Segretti about a year ago and was asked if 
he would be interested in working for the Re-Election of Nixon. He said 
he told Segretti he was not a Republican and could not take the assign­
ment. 

Dtxon said there was nothing sinister, as he understood Segretti's 
request, but that the conversation ended before the proposal was clear. 
Roger L. Nixt of Dennison, Iowa, another of the lawyers reportedly 
approached by Segretti, slammed down the telephone Monday night 
when questioned about the affair. 
"I don't have anything to say about that," Nixt said when asked 
whether it was true that Segretti had asked him to help disrupt the 
campaigns of various Democratic Presidential candidates. 
Shipley, 30, recalled that Segretti had implied that there would be a 
good job waiting for him after the election if he cooperated. 
He also recalled that Segretti never told him whom he was working for 
and put off inquiries by saying, "Don't ask any names." . . 
According to Segretti, the purpose of the sabotage, Shipley said, was to 
"put Democrat against Democrat" during the primaries. 
The aim, he recalled, was to disrupt the primary campai~n so severely 
that the Democrats could not get together after the convention. 
The Post said Segretti had been identified in reported by the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation as an "operative of the Nixon re-election 
organization." 


the observer Wednesday, OctQ!ter 11, 1972 



warld briefs 
<c:> 1972 New York Timer. 
Washington-The Senate refused Tuesday to permit a direct vote on legistlyion designed to prevent cross-town busing to desegregate schools. One of the chief sponsors of the antibusing measure con­cluded from the Senate's action that there was little chance that the House-passed bill could be enacted this year. 
Washington-Rep. Wright Patman announced that the House Banking and Currency Committee would meet Thursday in another attempt to investigate the Watergate Affair. The Texas Democrat, who is the committee chairman, issued copies of letters to four prominent ad­visers to President Nixon asking them to appear voluntarily at the Thursday session. 
New York-The owners of the 102-story Empire State Building, the colussus of ths skies for almost 40 years that is about to be relegated to the indignity of third place among the world's highest buildings, are secretly exploring the possibilities of adding eleven s~ries to its height and making it once again the world's tallest buildiJil!. 
1:30--speaker, r. sargent shriver, stepan center 
3: 
30--lecture, 'architecture, as i see it,' lawrence 

b. 
perkins, architecture building. 6:30--meeting,sailing club, 204 engineering building. 7:00--spanish tutorial, regina hall lobby, smc. 7:00--meeting, amateur radcio club, clubhouse behind holy cross hall. 


8: 
00--lecture, erich heller on franz kafka, liHie theater. 

8: 
15--concert, daniel pedtke, f.a.g.o., organist, sacred heart church, free. 


at nd-•mc: 
NOW chapter to organize at ND 
describes itself as an organization girls as secretaries and nurses and 
by Connie Greiwe "striving to change those con­boys as doctors and executives. 
Observer Staff Reporter ditions in society preventing "Each sex should be portrayed as 
women from developing more fully individuals," continued Lee. 
The National Organization of as human beings." Abolition of the roles of men and Women (NOW) under the direction NOW's primary concern at this women assigned in traditional of Ruth Lee is seeking to establish time is the passage of equal rights family life is also a goal of NOW. a chapter on the Notre Dame within state legislature. Certain Miss Lee feels that too often in campus after recently establishing protective laws which act as a marriages, men and women are a chapter in the South Bend barrier to employment, based on forced to gve up their identities in Community. sex need to be revised. Protective order to assume these family roles. 
"My main reason for laws permitting women to work for Invariably it is the woman that is establishing a chapter on campus only specific durations of time are forced to give up her identity. is because I realize the need to help now hurting rather than protecting NOW is involved in many dif­women achieve certain objectives women. ferent directions concerning which they can't do on their own. NOW believes the state needs to women's rights; socially, We need male support. Without provide more child facilities for all politically, and economically. 
men participating actively, we classes. Use of facilities at this cannot reach our cause," stressed point are ultimately based on Lee. welfare. 
Only ten members are needed to Women, according to NOW, are establish a particular chapter with almost totallly excluded from no racial, class, or sex politics. If they are involved at all discrimination. it is in a minor capacity. If they try 
Three male students are already to become involved, they are national members, Miss Lee discouraged by males within the discovered. "This proved to me system. that there is indeed a need for a "Social attitudes and images of chapter here, there is interest," women are also in need of added Miss Lee. change," stated Miss Lee. 
The six-year-old organization Revisions are needed in the started by five women is one of the educational system to stop the use first feminist movements. NOW of sexist text books portraying 
Head Start begins work 
The South Bend Head Start and 5-year old children in St. program will conduct an orien­Joseph County. After the orien­tation program for volunteers tation, teacher-aid volunteer Thursday, October 12, at 7 pm in assignments will be made. LaFortune Student Center Any student interested in Ballroom. working with the children but not 
The program is designed to now involved in the program prepare volunteers for work in the should come to the meetingprogram, which involves over 500 4 Thursday night. 
TIRED OF THE 
HI-FI 


RIP-OFF??? 
listen to what Steve's 
I ~
I g~:r aal~;ts~;STSE~~~~D I 
=~i 

r 
Speakers, Stereo Receivers il 
~-=· 

8-track Tape Decks ~ 
It 
Cassette Recorder~, ~ 
r 
and Digital Clock Radios 
J 

r 
'&.:fl2111!!lalili18211~11888iliflllilillll!!lfa~~:mlti'2Zd:~A¥A?.m-..w;-.w-ua-2i-m::.·· ; · 
t 
~ 
The Observer is published. daily during the college semester ex. cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per 
, semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.._ 
s H u L A 'S 
Not everyone can make it to
H H
the Senior Bar, Besides, "Emil T." can wait until u Thursday night 
u L 


,• L
~te C/u~ 
A 
2802 SOUTH lith ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
A 
Phone 683·4350 

s H u L A 'S 
Wednesday, October 11, 1972 the observer 
McGovern clarifies peace plan 

I Ill I I II I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
. . ... .. . . . . . . . . .
by Max Frankel and Henry A. Kissinger are pur­. . . . . . .... . . .. . . . negotiate in earnest on the 
..................... ... . . . ····················· 
I 1111 I I I Ill I II I II I I
<C> 1!172 New York Times suing so strenuously, or at least . . . . . . . . . . . . . prisoners and also on a general
.... . .. .. . .... . . . ....
conspicuously. cease-fire that would give anti­Washington, Oct. 10--Although, And the Senator invited--or American equipment as wel1 as communist regimes in South
about it even as the pain felt 
point by point, Sen. George dared--the President to choose, in alaining troops. diminishes. Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia what McGovern's plan for peace in the month of campaigning that The decision to formalize and re­Detailed comparisons among the he calls "a chance" to survive the Indochina was little more than a remains, between a quick set­emphasize those commitments public peace 1proposals. of the peace settlement. recapitulation of his known views, tlement that would deflate the and to make them again the PHE Hanoi-Vietcong negotiatorsthe decision to commit his can­McGovern package and a con­paramount feature of the cam­and McGovern are difficult to 
didacy--and his possible tinuation of Republican charges paign points up two basic con­fashion because each attaches presidency--to a formal course in that the Senator is interfering by clusions by the embattled different weight to concepts such Vietnam had added both novelty sponsoring "surrender." 
Democratic candidate that have as "total withdrawal," "outside and great risk to his campaign. McGovern had previously in­been evident in his entourage for interference" or "cease-fire." 
The Senator, in his first dicated that he would, im­about a fortnight. Comparisons are especially dif­nationwide address since mediatley after inauguration, The first is that Vietnam ficult at a time of extensive secret nomination, invited the American order a halt to the bombing of remains the best--and perhaps the talks in Paris, which may at least p people to support a plan whose North Vietnam and withdraw only--arrow in his quiver at this have defined and refined the military essentials amount to American forces within 90 days. late and difficult stage of a disputed issues even if they remain 



virtually total accceptance of the Now he unambiguously pledges an struggling campaign. unresolved. 
demands of the Vietcong and their end to all "acts of force" not only The Senator's second conclusion McGovern's basic intention is to 
allies in North Vietnam. in Vietnam but also in "all parts of is that the undeniable odds against walk from the war, from both 
In effect the Senator also in­Indochina" ; an immediate halt to a McGovern victory make it in­military and political in­vited Hanoi to await his election the shipment of combat supplies to cumbent upon him to use his volvements throughout Indochinaand better terms than those the South Vietnamese, Laotians candidacy to preach against what and Thailand, to let the South
presumably being offered in the and Cambodians, and the 90-day he deems to be an immoral war Vietnamese fend for themselves,
negotiations that President Nixon withdrawal of salvageable and to keep the country aroused without American aid, and the 


Freshman candidates 
President Vice-President Secretary T1·easurer <Flamingo> John Sierawski Brian Carroll Kevin Omara Mark Pietrykowski < Un-Poobahs l Matt Brakora Shayla Keough Jeff Causey Mark Flannagan (Bull Moose l Mike Hastings John K. Dean Sheila Elsner Bruce Evans <ticketl Bill Moredock Mary Dondanville Robert Kelly Mike Corbin (ticketl Joseph B. Hornett Bob Schleck <ticketl Carl Thompson Ed Reilly Rich Owoc 
Others <not tickets)Coalition of United Heads for Hemp 

For President President Vice-President Carl G. Bitler Elton Johnson
considered
T.F. Freeman AI Mendez Chuck Wilson Tony Zipple one John Garofalo Michael Wade Bill Zimsky Frank J. Miglianese
candidate Joe Corpora Francis J. McDonald Treasu•·er Jim Bradley Brian Hegarty 
R.E. Foulk Pat Dore 

Turnout lor candidates slllall 
by Andy Achilling sible for the actions of those the single office of freshman class 
Observer Staff Reporter posting their election posters. president. Since more than one 
Violation of these rules could person running for the same office 
Less than fifty people, including result in disqualification. on one ticket is without precedent, candidates, attended a meeting of There is a controversy over two' there is no provision in the Con­freshmen candidates for office and tickets entered on the ballot. One, stitution explicitly forbidding or their electorate last night. The the "Flamingoes," is accused of permitting it. meeting was held to enable fresh­beginning its election campaign Any student wishing to register a 
man voters to become familiar before Sunday, when classified ads complaint is asked to file it with with candidates and their plat­appeared Thursday and Friday in the Ombudsman's Office at La forms. the Observer stating, "Wanted: 4 Fortune Center in written form. Thirty-seven candidates are Flamingoes," and "For Sale: 1 Garrison opened the meeting by running for office, fourteen of them used Flamingo." describing the office of president for president and nine for vice­A spokesman for the Flamingo as a "big social chairman working president. Freshman voting will ticket explained the incident, fo the class," and added, "If. take place on Thursday in all halls saying the ads had been placed in you're in this class." He hoped from 11:30 am to 1 pm, and from the Observer by a friend. "We losers would not quit working in 
5:30 to 7 pm. Freshmen will be would've changed our name, but student government, saying they required to show their ID cards to we'd already ordered 15 dollars would probably be the choices for cast a ballot. worth of Flamingo campaign student council seats. 
A number of complaints have posters." He described it as "an · The candidates were then in­been filed with the Ombudsman unfortunate accident." troduced by tickets and permitted regarding electioneering. Num­The case of "The Coalition of to give a short sppeech. Most berous campaignposters have United Heads for Hemp" is pen­candidates stated a few points been ripped down, while some ding decision by the Election from their platforms, their have been covered by posters Committee composed of qualifications and asked to be belonging to opposing tickets. sophomores. The Coalition is contacted in their dormitory 
Greg Garrison, Sophomore Ve­attempting to elect threepeople to rooms. President, reminded the can­didates that they could not post advertisements in trees or mailboxes, and that only hall 

says

mailmen have legal access to mailboxes. He also warned them 
When it comes to pianos. we wiJt
that they would be held respon­
do just about anything. 


NOTICE 
Jobs Are Available... ! For FREE information on student assistance and placement program send self-addressed STAMPED envelope to the National Placement Registry, 1001 East Idaho St., Kalispell, MT 59901 
-NO GIMMICKS ­
It we can't do it. we willtryto find someone who does. · 
Call me now for an appointment 674-9335 
~Piano Pete'' 
Osceola, ,diana 
Ot~al ity Tuning and Re~lring '· 

best deal they can find, and then to hold the North Vietnamese to their written promise to release all prisoners by the end of the 90-day withdrawal period. 
The Senator would delay the closing of air bases in Thailand and the final recall of naval forces until the prisoners are home, presumably to convey a threat of renewed bombing if they are not returned 
BELLEi HOWELL

Nixon has characterized this as a course that would "stain the Sound Machine'" honor" of the nation by abandoning 
Cassette Player/Recorder 

an ally to Hanoi's mercy. He 
and Built-in AM/FM Radio

believes bombing and military aid 
.•• Hi FIToGo

and active combat advice are necessary to force Hanoi to • Now FM/AM radio and cassette 
recordings have a whole new 

. ~-----------l 
sound. Power amplifier/speaker 
system lets you hear deep bass 

I !?)ea/Jl $-/Lnu I 
tones and instruments you'd never

I "fr" cT ' I 
expect from a portable. 

I Yfeaw :Jend nw · • Cassette player/recorder can be easily removed from the Sound Machine for on-the-go use. 
: ;ru/Jl koi:let '';/~ w 
• Handy push-button controls, 
snap-in cassette loading, slide 

I u7J 11>,. d"
I ;:;oUJI a :;z;uw;wn 
rule tuning dial. 
• Operates on batteries or AC power. 

I YendoJe 50¢ 
Includes remote control microphone
I 
and earphone. 

Name ____~~----~---­(Piease print) 
iAddress-------------­


: City__State__Zip __ 
SOUND MASTERS 
Phone: (~19) 232·2430




:TIFFANY &CO. 
I 715 North Michigan Ave. 
421 N. Hickory Road 

I Chicago, Illinois 60611 
• South send. lml!ana 46615

L------------' 

HOMECOMING CONCERT October 14 at 8:30 
plus special guest star: 
White Trash 

Some Good Seats Still Available Including Some Floor Seats 
Tickets on sale at Stuuenr un;,;,n Ticket Office, 3rd 
floor LaFortune (11:30 -1:00, 3-5) and the ACC 
Ticket Office (9-5). 
<;HAIR SEATS $5.50 BL~ACHERS $3.00 
... presented by the N.D. Student Union 
' . j 
the observer Wednesday, October 11, 1972 





Letters ••• 
••. on Long, cartoons, and polls 
Long vs. Kersten 
Editor: 
re: Tom Long's column 
I'm a freshman .• I don't even know where to send this letter. I wasn't the freshman you said you talked to, but I could have been. And you haven't convinced me· I hope you haven't convinced hi~ 
either. • Your editorial <let's forget the 
pretense of a "personal appeal") was the climax of a long and, at
best, interesting series of attacks on King Kersten. It was headed 'Just Basic Dirt.' I'll have to concede 'you that much. It was 
basically dirty. 
But that's where the concession stops. Even if it were not poorly done, it would have bothered me enough to have made me drop you a note. But since it was, I don't feel self-conscious in writing you. 
Perhaps it's time someone realized what the King has ac­complished. You'll have to admit that, in being elected at all, he has done something in a way no one else could have, at a time that was ~ipe f.or the doing. He has brought Identity and style to a job which from reading the Observer, seem~ to have become stale. 
And he has held up consistently under the lowest and most political of attacks, even from the kid down the hall, who could never get over the Beach Boys T-shirt. But I worry, as. maybe you too should worry, that his achievement and style are beginning to threaten old friends' security. And maybe they are afraid that the Kersten ad­ministration might work, or at least make an explosive try. Maybe H-man, despite his lack of experience, will somehow pull it off. Maybe the Basic Dirt won't be able to hint very convincingly that the .Prime Mover is secretly movmg $80,000. And maybe the Rabble will turn out, after all, to be the heroes. 
Considering the ego trips on campus, I'd say your opening attack is pretty questionable. But since it comes from someone who writes so obviously in friendship it can be ignored. It can't be easy' to have a friend who's on top. It must be even harder to have to read ugly remarks about him, printed like a novena, almost daily, in the campus paper. It must be hard to have to write one of them. 
What do you think Student Government elections will look like in the spring? Do you really think Kerstenism is so shallow that nothing significant will come of it? If this is nothing more than a Editor: ,, 
Nothing was mdfe diturbing to me as a Notre Dame student and a member of The Observer staff than the recent column by Tom Long in Wednesday's Observer. The vicious attack upon Kersten 
was so disgusting to me and I think most of this University that Tom Long should publicly apologize for making slanderous attacks upon Bob's personality and for insulting him and his motives as Student 
Body President. The most disheartening thing about the
letter was the fact that numerous times Tom stated that "R. c lh 
a oun, I don't intend this as a personal attack upon you." And then proceeded to do just that and attack Bob's personality and his
motives. 
Let's look at the phenomenon of 
1King R. Calhoun Kersten and see exactly what Tom Long \failed to see in him. Bob was not just a "joke candidate" because if he was the students would not have elected him by a 63 percent majority in last year's election. This student body is not smart enough to realize the seriousness of a situation if the situation was because the student body felt that for the many different things that student government claims it does in actuality it does nothing. John Barkett was able to get into the Harvard Law School, possibly, because of his record saying that he was Student Body President and that was about all of his ac­complishments. 
The force of student government does not come from inside a student government structure with a president and vice-president rather it comes from the students through mass action. 
Last year on the parietals issue The Observer drew a huge group of people to the meeting of the SLC only to have that force destroyed because of the wishy-washy at­titude of student government leader John Barkett. Had the students led their own fight rather than student government leaders, success for the parietals would have been greater and better. The most important element for the rejection of semi-pro politicians like last year's candidates comes from the fact that The Observer wrote a stirring editorial per­taining to Kersten's successful campaign and raised the im­portance of student government to the students and made reference to such serious problems as refrigerator fines, rights, etc. 
The fact is very simple that for most issues only a few students are involved and wish 'for\ the ac­complishment of their particular goal. On campus wide issues then 

revision of the old poohbahism l we _ ~need a student leader and then nothing should change. I find ;Jhat leader will come from that hard to swallow. ' students, whether it is Bob Kersten 
If, as you suggest, we have nothing to lose, give the new Provost a chance. Don't subject the new administration to the same dirt you've handed the King. Don't r~sk . . rising out of your in­sigmficance to become part of the problem. 
I don't know who the freshman in your article is. I wish I did. But I hope he recognized your "personal appeal" for what it is: the lowest excuse for character assault the Observer has seen yet. 
God save us from any worse. 
Yours in the Oligarchy, 
Tony Proscio A Freshman 
P.S. If the poohbahs print this, I'll buy you a drink. 
o~ another leader makes little di~ference ~ut the fact the students will pr_ovide for their own leadership. 
Let me try to deal more s~cifically with what Tom Long said. Long's outlandish accusation to Kersten's so-called political goals for his friends is ridiculous. Anyone who claims that Kersten is attempting to gain control of student government for his own personal gain has missed entirely what Kersten has said and done. B~b does know what is going on in th1s campus and his reaction is that of the students of this University. The students act not simply as jokers to whatever goes on but rather as sophisticated cynics to a situaion which deserves cynicism. 
Hob has been honest with the students and has not striven to 

FACUL1Y FOR NIXON 
A Friendly Gathering 6:00 P.M., October 12, 1972 
UNIVERSITY CLUB (Lounge) 
For Information ltact Prof.\ V. Vuckovlc, Department of 1Mathl grab control but rather to show that the control of the University is not in his hands but rather in the hands of the students. The wild accusation by Long about the use of student funds further enhances the absurdity of his article. The money for this University given for student government is being used in the same manner that has been used in the past. The student funds are being used for the benefit of the student in most of the typical student activities. · 
Tom Long calls student government "respectable" after last year. I ask you how respected it is on this campus? And if they did, why did they elect Kersten? Long summarizes his article by calling Kersten a "front man for a bunc~ of guys whom I've enjoyed ~s fne~ds, but who are terribly mexpenenced for he positions you are planning to give them." He has made so many assumptions upon the personality and motives of Kersten to grab control it is impossible even tory and de~l with it. 
I have just one thing to say to Mr. Long and that's if you would sit and listen to Kersten and the students of this university rather than your own egotistical self, you would learn that Kersten's is not trying to harm this Univeristy rather it's guys like you who don't really know what's going on that are. 
Editor: 

I have no idea who on the Ob­
server staff is responsible for 
approving the material used in your editorial cartoons, but whoever he is, his sense of what does and does not constitute good taste is obviously lacking. In essence, your cartoon of last Tuesday, October 10, was an . abominable attempt at humor, at best providing amusement only through the good picture it gave your readers of the collective in­telligence level of the Observer 
editorial board. 

Regardless of the token statement that the opinions ex­pressed in columns and cartoons are not those of the board, I feel that there are limits of taste that should be exercised even in a publication held in as low regard by its readers as the Observer. 
In short, my comment is this: if a casual, detached reader were to take the spirit of the Observer to be truly representative of the students in general, he could quite justifiably assume that Notre Dame had managed to assemble the largest collection of narrow­minded, pseudo-intellectual self-righteous, vindictive self_:. seeking malcontents in the 'history of Catholic universities. 
The Kennedy cartoon was by no means atypical of Observer of­fe~ings, but, judging by the umversally negative reaction I 
Yours Truly, perceived among the students 
Joe Raymond neit~er is my opinion totally atypical of the readers. However I can speak only for myself when j sar ~hat the Observer is the most asmme excuse for a newspaper
Kennedy cartoon that I have ever encountered bar none. 
Rick Walters 336 LyonsEditor: 

In reference to Ted Kertin's cartoon on page four of today's Observer, I would like to comment on its value as a supplement to jour newspaper-it was worthless. Cart?o~ <and columns) express 
Anyone who can find humor in the opmwn of the cartoonist (or any _co~ne~tio!l with the Chap­writer l. T~ey are not necessarily paqmddick mcident must be sick! representative of the opinion of Sure, we've heard all the jokes and The Observer staff. cheap shots ever since the day ed. Mary Jo Kopechne died, but that's over with. Are you going to let a decent man be condemned again and again? Ted Kennedy works YVP poll defended hard for you. He doesn't have to ­he's lost two tremendous brothers in the same service. Our minds 
Editor: 

have a way of blanketing hurts and sorrows from our memories. Why This letter is in response to a not give his a chance to do the letter which appeared in the oc­
same? tober6thissueofTheObserver. In I have one last comment which is that letter, a certain Mr. M. too, it munity. 
The poll was taken wnn the in­tention of giving an hon~st ap­praisal of Mr. Nixon's status on this campus, and that intention was carried out. Those conducting the poll were instructed to make charts indicating the number of students in each room polled. A blank on the chart represented a preference for Mr. McGovern, and names were taken of Mr. Nixon's supporters for our own in­formation. Your choice, Mr. M., was not ignored as you claim, nor were those of any student who responded favorably to Mr. McGovern. As chairman of one of YVP's various committees, it was my job to count the final results of the poll, and I can assure you that every preference, whether for Mr. Nixon, Mr. McGovern, or un­decided, was counted. 
I ask you now, Mr. M. and students of Notre Dame and St. Mary's wherin lies the distortion of truth? It seems that you, Mr.M., saw fit to print an entirely baseless statement without bothering to inquire as to the truth of the matter, something which seems quite prevalent in some aspects of the McGovern campaign. I refuse, however, to use this letter as an opportunity to denounce all of Mr. McGovern's policies as Mr. M. chose to denounce Mr. Nixon. I think that everyone is tired of this mud throwing, no matter what side it comes from. That kind of politics benefits no one. I only ask that those of you who write or read such statements as Mr. M's. have the intelligence to look for the facts before letting your political bias carry you away. 
Dennis L. Yurkovic 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::~:~:~:~:=:=:~:;:~:~:: 
Night Editor: Jack Frischkorn 

Assistant  Night  Editor:  Kathy  
Schwille  
Sports Night  Editor:  Stan  

Urankar Issue Staff: Robert Baker, Albert D'Antonio Nite Controller: John Flannigan Pictureman: Jerome "the dude" 
One Thousand Leprechauns Can't Be Wrong 
AL MENDEZ for President, Class of 76 
Let's vote for the funny looking Freshman. 


aimed toward the Observer staff: upon himself to "refute the Young -~~:::==========
You can clamor and chant all you Voters for the President'sr­
want about the rights of freedom of statement that President Nixon speech and press when you read holds a 15 per cent lead over this letter, but remember that it Senator George McGovern on the was written from a compassionate Notre Dame-St. Mary's campus." point of view. Feelings are a very !fe cl~imed that the poll was "an real an~ present part of every mtentional distortion of the truth " human hfe, take them into account and that the final results we;e before you print. You have a very "dreampt up ... because no one pow~r(J]~·-tool in this newspaper -could possibly believe that nobody use It· Wisely. supported McGovern on this 
cam~us." Well, Mr. M., I hereby
Sincerely, 

take It upon myself to explain the truth of the matter to you and the 
Peter c. Johnson 

Notre Dame-St. Mary's com-

POP FARLEY'S 
Coffee Ho~se 

WED. 8:30 -11 :30 
COFFEE & TEA 

(Hot Jello is Grovier) 
Last Week: 

MARY, BETH, JOHN, CHRIS, RITA, BRIAN, JENNIFER, JOHN, RUDY, KERRY, BARB, STEVE, OSCAR, BILL, DERS, BETH, PAT, BILL, BOB, PAT, ANN, THIS, WEEK, YOU'RE, INVITED, TOO. 


PITTSBURGH® 

PAINTS Notre Dame Student· ·biscount 
-30% off latex Paint 
-15% off unpainted fu rn itu re 
333 S. Mich1gan 289-2439 

t_·· 
l" 

Wednesday, October 11, 1972 the observer 
5 

are you running with jesus, malcolm boyd? 

Originally, I had intended to write an article on sexuality at Notre Dame. Malcolm Boyd is a priest who is always writing about sexuality, I point out myself, and I am just as much a sexual guide as he is. But Malcolm Boyd uses his human credentials as a foundation for telling us how Jesus lived sexually. The only cer­titude we are left with is that if Malcolm Boyd had been Jesus Christ, he would have slept with harlots, which tells us a great deal about the choosiness of Malcolm Boyd, but nothing at all about the sexuality of the Superstar. 
The only reason I think at all about 
writing of human sexuality at Notre Dame 
is that I hear so much about it in committee 
meetings. I listen for an hour while people 
talk about developing mature Christian 
attitudes about sex . Then, twice a month, I 
go over to Badin Hall and find the doors 
locked, AND I wonder why. I worry that the 
reason those doors are locked is that we are 
treating Badin and Walsh like outposts of 
the Virgin Islands. I ask about it in com­
mittee meetings; and they tell me no, look 
at Alumni and Dillon; they have locked 
doors too. and those locks are not put there 
to protect the pre-lapsarian virtue of the 
Sabine women. 
That is when I know I am not going to 
write an article about sexuality at Notre 
Dame: because I am confused about sex, and Malcolm Boyd is confused about Jesus Christ, and because the committees I belong to are confused (I suspect) about why there are locked doors in Badin and Walsh. 

Human sexuality is such a simple matter, or at least it should be if it is kept between people. At the heart of our religion is the doctrine that the Second Person of the Trinity became a human being; therefore, we know that God has touched flesh, and it was no sin to His divinity to feel the caress of the wind on his cheeks, or to know a hunger for bread in the morning, and a need for sleep in the weary nights. Somehow, even with holiness, we feel that there must have been that excitement in the bloodstream whereby one human being needs a mate to wrap in his arms and love. Even if, despite Malcolm Boyd's opinion, the Church wor­ships a celibate Christ, marriages are still consummated in His name wherein the sexual energies are sinewed with grace. 
For me, the doctrine of the Incarnation is the bright jewel in the diadem of doctrine. Our faith is not a matter of worshipping the Unmoved Mover; our God is not a diaphanous presence wrapped in clouds that speaks from thunder over Sinai; our liturgy is more than an exercise in a Sunday morning metaphysics celebrating the un­seen mysteries. Our Lord has walked the way of the earth. We have not broken into His light, but He has crashed into our darkness. He has borne our infirmities in 


the gods: welcome back to the good doctor 
Isaac Asimov---writer, scholar, scientist, historian, designer. Isaac Asimov-­Renaissance Man? Well, not quite, but he does have an impressive list of interests and book subjects. His over one hundred twenty books range everywhere from politics to history, geography to religion. His titles range from Lucky Starr and the Pirates of the Asteroids to Asimov's Guide to the Bible. And for a "regular living" he is a Biology professor at a New York university. 
But despite Asimov's great range of in­terests, he is best known for his novels, most particularly, his science fiction novels. And in that field, he is no less than the best. Throughout the science-fiction community, his books are the ones that everybody reads, the ones that everybody knows. His Pebble in the Sky is almost ranked with 1984 and Brave New World in the Utopia section, his Foundation trilogy is the only trilogy to win a Hugo, and his robot books set the stage for other writers with his three Robotic Laws. His short stories are eagerly grabbed up anthology editors, and his own anthologies are widely read. 
But of all these great books, Asimov hasn't touched his science-fiction pen for over fifteen years <he himself doesn't count Fantastic Voyage), until The Gods Themselves. 
It's a welcome return to Asimov. Good old hard-science science fiction has been lacking in recent years in favor of more fantastical sci-fi. Few and far between are the books in which you actually learn something along with the entertainment (I'm going to ignore Michael Criton's books now and for good; they read too much like scientific treatises l. The Gods Themselves at times does overdo it a bit, but more than makes up for the lecture bit the rest of the time. 
Basically, Gods is an anti-pollution book. The pollution is a different sort than the usual, however: pollution of energy. It seems that there's another universe that's running low on energy, as their stars are closer to extinction than the ones in our universe are. So they figure out a way to gain energy from us by exchanging material back and forth between the two universes. They take tungsten-186, radioactive in their universe, and give us plutonium-186, stable in their universe. Now yes, all you physics majors, I know there's no such thing as plutonium-186, no way even 

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
The Gods Themselves by Dr. Isaac Asimov. Doubleday and Company, Inc., Garden City, New York. 288 pp., $5.95. 

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
isaac asimov 
rev. rabert '=lriffin 
His flesh. Bread and wine are the realities . taken from wheat fields and vineyards through which we come to worship the God 
made human. 

Our confusion comes not · from any 
distrust of the ways, even the sexual ways, 
in which the Word became Flesh, but from 
an uneasiness we know within ourselves. 
There is the ancient myth of original sin; 
and in mythic terms, we describe our 
conscupiscence as the gift from a snake that 
whispered temptations in the ear of Eve. 
Our fear of conscupiscence is reflected in 
that dark stream of tradition (running from 
the Platonists, through Augustine, to Calvin, 
Dostoevski, and Graham Greene) that 
threatens the damnation of the sensual man. 
Our chief champions in the spiritual life 
are the saints seen as spiritual athletes who 
have successfully wrestled with the demons 
of lust. 

So our dogmas honor Christ, Who was 
perfectly at peace with the life of the senses. 
But in practice, we fear our own sensuality 
because it has been wounded by sin. As 
Christians, we affirm, as a corollary to the. 
Incarnation, the sacramentality of the 
universe in which dusts ministers unto us 
the gifts of glory. But we also see the earth 
as the place of the soul's entrapment, where 
prayer and fasting are the disciplines 
needed to guard us against the betrayals of 
human love and affairs. 
A psychiatrist friend tells me that of all 
his patients, Catholics have the most beautiful teaching on the sacrament of marriage, and the greatest hangups with the problems of sex; couples living together, for example, after the manner of St. Joseph and the Blessed Virgin, feeling that they are doing the holy thing. The real problem is that the husband is lacking in sexual energy, or the wife is frigid. Few Catholics of my generation have not suffered at one time or another from sexual scrupulosity. Some of those who have escaped make the further error of treating sex as though it were an end in itself, separate and apart from the other experiences and values of human life. 
What this campus needs is the develop­ment of healthy sexual attitudes which are neither ~mply monastic and ascetic, nor simply an affirmation of life as a celebration of untutored nerve ends. Christ's humanity is perfect; ours is not; but His life is a paradigm of what our own lives should be striving for: a marriage between flesh and spirit in which all im­compatibilities are healed by grace. 
But this is a work to be achieved by the ministry of the Church and the wisdom of the University. It is not going to come through a reading of Malcolm Boyd. It is not going to happen through a work of committees. It is certainly not going to be aided by the scribblings of a columnist who is still wondering about the locked doors in Badin and Walsh. 
to create it in our universe, but remember, it comes from a universe with different natural laws. 
Anyway, what it means is that both universes lose a stable material and gain a radioactive one, thereby gaining "free" energy. The system seems to work, so the two worlds on either side of the inter­dimensional gap set up an Electron Pump (or Positron Pump, depending on which side you're on l, and everything's fine. 
Until, that is, when one Earth scientist discovers that exchanging materials also means that the two universes will even­tually exchange natural laws. More precisely, this exchange will mean that the Sun will explode. And here's where the fun begins. This scientist's attempts to per­suade the government, the situation as seen from the other side of the dimensional barrier, and the eventual solution to the problem, make up the story line. 
And a fascinating study in human pride, empathy and ingenuity it is. The most fascinating, and bitter, part is the "view from the other side." A curious type of alien being, with the rare explanation of what the being is (as opposed to the standard bug­eyed-monster), demonstrates admirably the total frustration that seemingly nothing can be done about pollution because the people that want to do something are ultimately part of the very system polluting. Though slow to start out, this section cat­ches the reader and holds him spellbound 

joseph abel/ 
until it reaches its conclusion, one tnat makes the reader feel much frustration at the characters' predicament. 
The solution of the problem and the ending of the book aren't quite as spellbinding: a good deal of scientific background, especially in physics, is shown by Asimov, and unfortunately, a good bit is needed by the reader to understand it. I understood it oftentimes barely, but I get the impression that it will be over most readers' heads. This was something Asimov rarely did in previous books. 
There are other things Asimov does here for the first time also. Where he seemed almost afraid of sex before, he now ap­proaches it like most modern writers. Some mothers of early-adolescent sci-fi fans might be a little disturbed, but that's of small matter. Asimov also isn't afraid of parodying national leaders in his books. It could be argued that he's mocking political types, but his characters of Frederick Hallam. Senator Burt, and Joshua Chen are so familiar that one has to laugh at his portrayals. 
On the whole, it's worth the wait for the Master to return to what he does best. The characterizations are, as usual, complete, the story line is solid (though one wonders why the aliens need us to transfer tungsten-­-why not just take it? l, and the science is believable. 
Be prepared for a physics lesson, but I think you'll enjoy it. 
CAC 

The national Players •

1n Aristophanes "THE BIRDS" 
1 
First of Dance & Drama Series
r 
NOTRE DAME-ST: MARYS THEAiRE 

8 P.M. Oct. 17, O'Laughlin 
presents
I 
all seats gen. admission $3.00 patrons free -patron cards $7.00
THE LION IN WINTER 
Advanced tickets on sale at C A C office, Student Union ticket 
James Goldman's witty, intelligent comedy. O'Laughlin Auditorium St. Mary's Campus 
office, American National Banks and Branch offices, Witmer,
October 6, 7, 12, 13, 14 at 8:30p.m. Students $1.50 Phone Reservations 284-4176 
McNease Music, AI Smith's Records, Pandora's, Jennifer's
(Season subscriptions still available -5 plays $6.50) 
I I j J 
l 
the observer Wednesday, October 11, 1972 




ISO hear Irish Nationalist 


by David Rust Observer Starr Reporter 
I.R.A. member Shamus O'Tualahial presented his picture of Northern Ireland's present "carnival of reactions" last night to the 150 gathered in the library auditorium, hoping to win, he said, a more informedly sympathetic ear to the Nationalist struggles in that country. 
O'Tualahial, member of the Sinn Fein or "Regular Wing" of the 
I.R.A. and present editor of the Northt>rn Ireland Civil Rights Journal, presented a detailed sketch of Irish history from 1911 to 1923, tracing the real beginnings of discontent in the Ireland north of the Republic. 
O'Tuahahial sought to convince his American audience that the conflict is not primarily religious, nor is it a battle of "crazed bom­bers" and "ane maniacs" against the forces of peace and order. 
Had the Irish situation to the United States' involvement in the Vietnam conflict. "Both the United States and Great Britain have the same goal" in respect to the subject of their involvements, says O'Tlahial: "a military solution pursued under the smokescreen of propaganda." 
O'Tualahial, who knows recent 
I.R.A. defector Maria McGuire personally, rejects as "typical" 
Shamus O'Tualahial, a member of tht> IRA. 
her claims that the I.R.A. Provisonals are "bloodthirsty killers." The British, he says, welcome the campaign of that very small faction of the I.R.A. that do the bombings because it "helps represent the situation through the media as insane bombers vs. peace and order." 
Backing his statement that the conflict was not religious, O'Tualahial cited the beginnings of the conflict in which the dichotomy of 1911 existed solely between the Loyalists and Nationalists, ex­clusive of religious overtones. 

IIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIHHIIHIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIBIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Chess pairings 
\\'hllf' Black 
I Krllf'y t 8768) Pettit It2861 2. Antolino 112621 Espenan t10381 :I. Hannah 11316) Szasz 1289--4119 
"· SaviiJeo t tnol Shapiro 1234·9648) 5. Burger 110571 Kohmiller (1177) 6. Sorge 1234-62741 Osborne 117811 7 lloppner I8892 l Nowalk ( 8371) R. Ursu 16349) Usignol (17351 9 Reilly t8918l Parker 163251 10. Hui 179631 Finnigan 135891 II. Bolduc 1272-74001 Ancheta 1272-94621 
12. Kresbach 13591 l Carnes (17241 13. Siller !8571) Peroz (1311) 14. Campagna 1233-43001 Moran 16727) 15. O'Connell 167'95) Gibbo 1234~1 16. DeSaussure 113721 Spencer (3423) 
17. DaCunha t234-1385l Bachman t272-o509) 18 O'Neill 1232·95971 Keenan (3317) 
19. Hanrahan 11201 l 
Lins 136481 

20. Hyland 114961 Podlasek (671!11 21 McCollum 178741 Mutz 11093) 22. Perry 131141 Locher (233-9406) 
23. Daigle I 89771 Trizna (1679) 
Tht> following have been withdrawn: 
Marchuska, Yates, Andrade, Fitzpatrick, Grimm, Zagrams, Mendez, Lis. Weaver, Parretta, GriHin, Early, Trofino, Schott, Kampman, Slattery 
The leaders after 6 rounds: 1-2 Plf'rre Io:spenan 51."2-4 1-2 John Kelley 
s•~-·1.! 

:J-8 M1ke Antolino 
5-1 :J-8 Jot' Burger 5-1 :1-8 Loring Hannah 
5-1 :J-8 Steve Pettit 
5·1 :J-8 Dick Saville 5-l . :J-8 Ern£>st Szasz 
5-1 

Sorge !4-11 vs. Shapiro 14-1> in Round6to be played today. 
IIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIII 
Second Annual Law Advisory Council Lecture 
THE AUTOMOBILE 
and 


AIR POLLUTION 
FRASER F. HILDER 
assistant General Counsel General Moters Corp. 
Audience panel discussion chaired by Professor. Michael V. Mcintire of the law faculty 
3:00pm Thursday October J2, J972 
Memorial Library Auditorium 
The element of religion was only 
introduced by the industrialists 
concentrated in the northeast 
corner of Ireland after Britains's 
Parliament voted in 1911 to give in 
to Home Rule demands, accoridng 
to 0 'Tualahial. 

In 1914, as the Great War began to make its demands upon Great Britain's manpower, Britain promised complete independence to Ireland, to come at the suc­cessful conclusion of the war. But agitation by both Nationalists and Loyalists continued, said O'Tualahial, leading to the short­lived Revolution of 1916, the Guerilla War of 1918-1921, and the final1920 act which established the partition of Ireland into the southern Republic and the nor­thern commonwealth. The par­tition was to begin, predicted a prominent Nationalist of the time, only a "carnival of reactions" that would last as long as the divion remained. 
O'Tualahial also explained that internment, created by the Unionist government's Special Forces Act of 1923 and used by both the Irish government through 1923­69 and the British up to the present day, excites such a violent reaction from Irish because it is to them the epitomy of all they struggle against--the denial of civil 
rights, and "foriegn" subjugation. 
He himself an internee during 
1971, O'Tualahial had to hide under 
his bunk several times in his cell during his period of internment from bullets fired between the government forces and the I.R.A. Places of internment are always under seige, he reports. 
O'Tualahialleft Notre Dame at the end of his lecture to continue his speaking tour of the United States. He was brought here under the Academic Commissions's lecture series program. 
NEEDED: SLC secretary (student) 
MUST: Attend all meetings 
Take Notes 
Prepare minutes for distribution 
ANYONE INTERESTED: Contact 7308 for 
further information 
SELL MARDI GRAS RAFFLE TICKETS 
Saturday 
at the PITT game 
Good Salaryand Benefits 

Call John Duffy 233-4540 
CARL G. BITLER





YOTI 
FOR Freshman Closs President 

"He wants to serve you" 
~=====================~~======"' 

-
1 

JEs u s R E TREAT 
October 13-14
Date: 
Time: 8:OOpm Fri-8: OOpm Sat. 
JESUS RETREAT is a 24hr. retreat offering 
participants an opportunity to learn about 
JESUS to learn what it means to be a Christian, and to experience a life of power and hope, in Him. 
Call: 282-2500 days 288-9988 evenings 
Also A PRAYER MEETING every Thurs. at Holy Cross Hall, 9 p.m sponsored by
I 


TRUE HOUSE COMMUNITY 
--a local Catholic Charismatic Community at Notre Dame 


SMC voter tul"nout sparse 
Yesterday's SMC elections were marked by scant voter turnout and three write-invictoriesin the junior class. Essentially there was no contest for the junior class posts. Monica Stallworth was an easy victor for the vice-presidential spot as the only candidate on the ballot, and write-in candidate Ann Fisher, Jean Oxenrider, and Christi  The sophomore races saw the defeat of one coaliton ticket by another Marty Kabbes was elected president, Margaret Ferguson vice president, Mary Short secretary, and Pat Valdenaire treasurer, over opponents Teri Land, Margis ·Fuchs Jenny Lee, and Ginny 'Gibbs. Sixty-three sophomorees voted. Freshman totals showed an  tention. Coalition candidate Lisa Kenney took the presidency, and Ber­nadette Baldi (from another coalition) was elected treasurer. The two in~ividual contenders, Karen Zemty and Marie Becklenberg, landed the vice presidential and secretary spots respectively.  
Carroll were elected unopposed as  increase  in  voter  turnout--193  Three  persons  received  one  
president,  secretary,  and  ballots cast-and victoriesofr part  write-in vote apiece.  There were  
treasurer respectively. Thirty-four persons cast ballots in the  of two coalition tickets and the two individual candidates in con- two disqualified ballots and abstentions.  two  

Committee appointed by HPC to review-allocating of·funds 
the past few years. "This should tomorrow.
(continued from page 1) 
give us a good estimate of the Though the sophomore class is
Ward urged the HPC to take 
annual cost of each hall's responsible for running the elec­
immediate action to free itself 
renovations that must be met tion, Yates wanted each hall
from financial insecurity. 
almost exclusively by their OW'l president to watch over the
"We've proven that we are a 
legitimate body on campus, but funds." proceedings to guarantee a fair we're always broke," he com­
With this data, he added, the election. Primarily he requested mented. He added that every hall HPC will attempt to show up them to keep charge of the ballot inadequacies in the proposed boxes when not in use.
president should work towards 
maintaining a stable treasury. budget. The HPC decided not to officially Several suggestions were made In other business, Sophomore accept this responsibility, since it Class President David Yates rightly belonged to the sophomore
during the ensuing discussion of 
received only moderate support class. It did, however, allow its
achieving this goal: the food sales of every hall should be run more 
when he asked for help\ in the members to decide the question for 
efficiently to make a profit; (2) the 
freshman elections to be held their individual halls. rectors should, if possible, keep the ,JlftllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiUIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII books to ensure honesty; and (3) hall president should work with his treasurer and oversee all appropriations. 
Founders Day
Jeselnick also asked the to make public the financial records of their halls over 
at Saint Mary's

Heller on Kafka 
Little Theatre Founder's Day, which commemorates the founding of by Marty Miller Saint Mary's college in 1855, will be celebrated in the campus Observer Staff Reporter with a series of special events on Thursday, Ocotber 12. All seminars will be held in Stapleton Lounge. The 
Heller, Professor of schedule for the day will be as follows: manities at Northwestern versity, will speak on "Franz 
11:00--Women: the professiona I view, led by Mrs. Jack Bomer and Mrs. Don Horning.

"tonite at 8 p.m. in the Saint 
1:15--Women: a psychological view, led by Ms. Phyllis

ry's Little Theatre. 
Jameson, If the Saint Mary's psychology department. 

Heller is a native of 
3:00--Women: a political view, led by Dr. Alan Nasser of 

Bohemia, with British citizenship 
the Saint Mary's philosophy departement; Luch Ray, doc­

naturalization. He is a noted 
toral condiadate in sociology and Denforth fellow; and

educator, writer and philosopher, 
students Kathy Lennon, Marion Lusardi.

Correspongind Member of the German Academy of Language 
4: 15--Mass in Regina Chapel dedicated to women.

and Literature, and he holds an 
4: 45--Cake cutting ceremony in Saint Mary's cafeteria, Dr. 

Honorary Degree of Doctor of 
Edward Henry presiding. 

Letters, Emory University. 
The following rooms relating to Saint Mary's history will Dr. Heller is well known for such be open to the public:publications at The Disinherited The Angelicum, 240 Moreau Hall Mind, The Ironic German, A Study The College and Community Archives, Bertrand Hall or Thomas Mann, and The Artist's Chapel of the House of Loretto Journey into the Interior and Other Moreau-Hammes Galleries will display historical Essays. photographs of the college. Tonight's lecture is the first in a series of three sponsored by the 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
Humaristic Studies Department of 
Saint Mary's College. This marks the sixteenth year that the 
FRESHMEN ...Ill 

Department of Humanistic Studies has sponsored these humanism 
VOTE FOR UNITED GOVERNMENT 

lectures. 
Other lectures this year include: "The Strange Death of Liberal Education" by James Billington of 
JOHN S!ERAWSKI -PRES.

Princeton Unitersity on March 29, 1973 and "Pilgrimages· from Within" by Victor Turner of the University of Chicago, on April 25, 1973. 
BRIAN CARROLL --V. PRES
The Department of Modern · Languages of the University of Notre Dame is co-sponsoring the lecture this evening. There is no admission fee and the public is welcome. 


KEVIN 0 'MARA .. SEC. 

Religious talk at life science aud. 

MARK PIETRYKOWSKI-$$$
"Parables as Religious and Poetic Experiences" is the topic of a talk to be given by Dr. John Dominic Cross_an, associate professor of theology at Chicago's DePaul University, at 8 p.m. Thursday, October 12, in the 
VOTE auditorium of the Galvin Life Science Center at the University of Notre Dame. 
The talk is part of the 




FLAMINGO 

Distinguished Lecture Series sponsored by the Department of Tehology and is open to the public without charge. 
WANTED 
Desperately need 4 general ad mission Missouri tickets. Cal Kim 8066. Need up to 5 G A tickets Missouri. Call Frank. 8849. I need one TCU ticke desperately. WILL BE GLAD T PAY. Call Greg 3328. Will trade 2 TCU or 2 Pitt ticket for 2 Missouri or 2 Miami or wl pay $$(big) Call 259-2242. How about a couple Missouri tlx? G.A., call Pat 3610. Need ride to Dayton for two. Week-end of Oct. 13. 1244. Wanted: tickets to Notre Dame Texas Christian game. Call. 289­1163. Need 3-4 non-student tickets fo Missouri. Call 1244, Shawn. Wanted: 1 general admission Missouri ticket. Will pay well. Call Maria, 1715 or 5166. Need ride to Cincinnati Octobe 13. Please call 4354. Desperately need ride for HTH from Milwaukee to Notre Dam this Fri and return ride t Milwaukee Sunday. Call 8573. Need 1general admission ticket t0 TCU. Call 3521. Need Missouri tix. Call 234-6802. Need 4 general admission tickets for TCU. Need not be together. Call John 1605. Needed: TCU TIX -2 general admission. Call 7819. Wanted: secretary, must typ and take shorthand. 6-12 hour per week. Apply OBSERVE salary negoitable. Help wanted . have show car need help in sanding & custom pain-ting. Will pay, call 232-0503 Millon (Monstu'er) Desperately need tickets to Texas Christian game. Call 3377 pleas I need a roomate. 2 headed, anything. 233-1329. Private. Gorgeous. Keep trying. EASY RIDER needs a bike (500 cc or larger) for wknd. of Oct. 2 22. Have experience and pay wei Call: 1609. Want 4 gen adm tix for Missouri or TCU 8918. Desperately need 4 gen admission tickets to Pttsburgh. Call To 6848. Need 2 gen admission tickets. Call Frank 1943. Desperately need 4 TCU tickets. Phone 287-6010. Have 2 GA Pitt tickets. Will trad for 2 GA tickets to any other hom game. Call Jim 3256. Ride needed from Pittsburgh and back (Indiana u. in Penn.) f weekend of Oct. 14-15. Will pa 283-1869. Need ride to and back . NYC or  

t0 

t 
0 

s 
II 
e 
0 
e s R, 
e. 
0· 
I. 
m 
TC u 
e e 
or 
y 
Conn. Can leave Thur . Fri. WiII share $. Call 3508. 
3 student Pitt tix for sale . 3252. 
Wanted: acoustic guitar in good condition for under $50. Call Pete 8810. 
FOR SALE 

Period 7-drawer Walnut kneehole desk w-matching chair, $40.00. 259-9659. 
For Sale: 2 gen adm Pitt tickets Call 1595. 

1965 VW bus, runs great $450 John 8504. 
'67 Ford 6, 4 door, automatic. Ca II Walt 233-8176. 
Sale Four student tickets for Pittsburgh game. Call Bill 1244. 
1963 Impala. Auto, power, air, v. 8. A-1 mechanically. 21.000 original miles. 259-9766. 
Must sell: 70112 firebird 400, eX· cellent condition, extremely low mileage, air, AM-FM, 4-on floo
r' 
++. Must drive, see. $2600 or best offer. Ca II 6588 or 272-6225. 
7 
ADS 

For sale: gibson electric guitar. 
Call 283-1620. 
For sale 1969 Triumph GT6+, Red, six cylinder, 4-speed, very good condition $1650. Call anytime after 5, 289-1794. 
PERSONALS 

All birds have wings 
and some have bills. 
Can you imagine a 
wing with a bill? 1 can. 
Winger. 

KM 
TP 
Always 
Dear Lynn, 
Everything will turn out just fine, 
I'm sure! 
Cas 

Miss Boston: "I love your ac­cent" Please call me 8305. 
Palk-Congratulations! May you have many more. The Gang of section J. 
M. Thanks for the cake, talking blue stationery, and lots of sunshine. 
G. 
LOST AND FOl'ND 

Lost at pep rally: keys on wooden disk. Jan 6953. 
Found: round, gold framed glasses in black case. Found on Bulla Road. Call 283-6521. 
NOTICES 

SENIORS! Last chance to return yearbook Photo Proofs! Friday, October 13, 2-C LaFortune, 11-3. Questions call 7085. 
Party · All graduate and Law students (GSU) Saturday night . Carroll Hall . 7:30 . Bud & dan­cing: $1.00 per person. 
Need a part time job? Bus boys needed. $2.00 hour. Apply Summit Club, 25 floor American Nat. Bank. 
Student discounts on new Westinghouse Compact Refrigerators. Spacious 4.4 cu. ft. capacity, factory warranty, immediate delivery. Call Now! Wynne's Refrigeration Co. 234· 0578. Ask for Tom. 
HELP the helpless unborn, with time, money, or both. Write to Life, Inc. 233-4295. 
Faculty for Nixon. A friendly gathering, 6:00p.m., October 12, 1972. University Club (Lounge) For information contact Prof. v. Vuckovic, Department of Mathematics. 
Grad school and job application photos taken 12-1 daily in off. campus office. For more info call 283-8491 between 12-1. 
Europe is alive & warm & un­crowded this Christmas. Let us take you there. You'll find it incredibly inexpensive. British Overseas Airways Corporation. BOAC Call Clark 283-8810 for details. 
Morrissey Loan Fund. Borrow up to $150. LaFortune Basement. Open 11:15-12:15 Monday thru Friday. 
Those who feel they have psychic abilities & are interested in rarticipating in parapsychology ~xperiment. cont act Gil 1067. 
TED WILSON RALLY Saturday, October 14th 8 o'clock to ? Live orchestra Black and Chicano Theater Roast pig, barbequed chicken, etc. All the beer you can drink and all the food you can eat for $2.00. Tickets: phone 282-1186. 
ACTION HAS JOBS 
Notre Dame juniors and seniors, the Peace Corps and Vista recruiters will be on campus October 9-13, with tables in the library concourse all week, the Placement office on Thursday and the Architecture building on Thursday and Friday. If you are looking tor the best way to go in the future and will have a degree or high skill in engineering, ar­chitecture, business, education or math and general science, visit the ACTION recruiters. There is a place for you in the world. 
• 
j 
J ..j 

------------·---~­
' 
8 the observer Wednesday, October 11, 1972 
Schlezes gets award 
Irish seventh in polls 
Notre Dame's young defense, Thomas himself was the There were no major surprises notch to fourth. still beaming over their per­recipient of the first "Irish Award" in college football action last Shug Jordan's Auburn Tigers formance in Saturday's 16-0 Irish for special achievement. The weekend, resulting in an unusual continued to surprise people, as triumph at Michigan State, junior placekicker booted three degree of stability in this week's they pulled off a SEC upset for the garnered most of the honors at the field goals and an extra point, A.P. and U.P.I. polls. Notre Dame second straight week. Despite weekly awards ceremony Monday giving him 28 points on the season. rose in the eyes of the coaches, losing the All-American passing afternoon, with senior defensive Star of the game honors went to moving up a notch from eighth to combination of Pat Sullivan-to­back Ken Schlezes accepting the fullback Andy Huff on offense (15 seventh, while the nations sports­Terry Beasley, the Tigers have 
game ball. carries for 64 yards and a touch­writers kept the Irish in seventh shown surprising power by adding Schlezes, a 6-3, 192 lb. native of down l and linebacker Jim place. a 19-13 win over Mississippi to Rochelle, Ill., made the game's Musuraca on defense. Jim Southern California broke a their list of credits that features a key play in the fourth quarter. 0 'Malley, Reggie Barnett, and two-year jinx by dumping Pacific glowing 4-o record. Ranked 17th After State had recovered an N.D. Drew . Mahalic received Eight rival Stanford, 3G-21, an(l in A.P. and 14th in U.P.I. last 
honorable mention. thus retained their number one week, Auburn jumped to ninth infumble and driven to the Irish 44, 
Schlezes stepped in front, of Schlezes, Barnett, and Tim ranking. Oklahoma took ad­both polls, forcing Texas, a narrow Spartan tight end Billy Joe Dupree Rudnick acquired helmet stars for vantage of a week's layoff to 27-12 winner over utah State, into and intercepted a Mark Niesen interceptions, as did fullback John prepare for this .v<'ekend's annual the tenth position. aerial that set up Bob Thomas' Cieszkowski for a fumble showdown with Texas, yet win-sealing field goal. It was the recovery. Preparation team managed to narrow the gap bet­Michigan and Nebraska again 
first theft of the season for players of the week were Steve ween themselves and the Trojans. shared the fifth and sixth spots in Schlezes, who led the Irish in in­Meece on offense and Jim Zloch for Ken Schlezes The biggest change ir the Top the charts, and Louisiana State 
terceptions with four last year. defense. Ten came thanks to the eff'>r~s of a laid sole claim to the number eight pair of Southeastern Confl~r('•ICe slot. squads. Alabama trounced Besides the top-rated Trojans, Georgia, 25-7, and took over sole the only other future Irish op­
Bullock gives extra power 
possession of the number three ponent to receive mention was the position, while Big Ten favorite Air Force Academy, 15th in theAlthough "Bull" isn't starting come out on top," Bullock ex­Ohio State, forced into a come­,,aches' poll and 16th in the
by Tim Neuville
• this year, he is still happy he chose plained. from-behind 35-18 win over iters' survey.
If you call three fullbacks a Notre Dame. "I came here for "At the beginning of the week I stubborn California, dropped a he rankings:dilemma, Notre Dame is in a academic reasons as well as start low and build up for the terrible mess. football. I wanted a winner and we game, starting to bring myself to a 
John Cieszkowski and Andy have one this year." peak on Friday and Saturday. This AP PoH UPI Poll Huff, both previous letter winners, is the way I feel I can best con­
In reference to the team Bull

powerful runners, and probable tribute to the team, by being I. Southern Calif. (34) ........5-0 964 J. ~Jtmt Cal (21) ...........:HI
thinks, "We have a great team, !'Oklahoma (15) ..............3.0 9111 2.. 0klalloma (13) ..............3-0 ~ 
pro draft picks this year, alternate mentally and physically ready." 3: Alabama (I) ................5-0 ~ 
with tremendous unity--so much 3.,Aiabama ....................4-0 67t• ~-:.on the first team. "Bull" believes that the football 4. Ohio Slate (1) ...............3-0 625" -4. Ohio State ..................3-0
unity that even practice is never 5. )tichigan ....: ..............4-0 596 -5. Nebraska ..................3-l 191
Behind them is the third man, _te<},m has great potential. "Our
dull." Coming from a second &. :'<ebraska ...................3-I M!ll 5. Michigan ...................4-4
sophomore Wayne Bullock, te~m has great talent but, 7. ~otre Dame ................3-0 1160~ 7. Notre Dame ...............3-0 :II
string fullback who hasn't been off 118
nicknamed the "Bull." basically, we are a good team S. Louisiana St. ...............4-0 8. Louisiana St. ............... 4-0
the first string s.ince his fifth game '9. Auburn .................... .4·0 9. Auburn .....................4-0 41 IA look at him shows that the of high school freshman year, that because of our coaching. Coaching I.Texas .......................3·0 m1 lfJ. Washington .................5-0 
name is appropriate. Standing is our strength, always making us II. Tennessee ..................4-I U Texas .......................3-0 i 
6-1 , weighing 220-pounds, with a shows a lot. strive for perfect execution-­~!. Washington ...... _..........5-0 12. Tennessee ..................4-1
l:
J3. Colorado ....................4-1 t74 I l3. UCLA .......................4-l ~ 
huge chest and neck, "Bull" is, During the week, "Bull" tries to execution as a unit-you can't beat W. UCLA .......................4-1 JS7 )4. Iowa State ..................3-0 12 indeed, in character with his integrate himself as part of the it." 15. Penn State ..................3-1· liB 15. Air Force .............. :... 4-0 7 .16. Alr Force ...................4-0 16. Colorado ................... 4-1 II"
frame. Still, Bullock hasn't been team's unity. This involves both Up till now, "Bull's greatest t7~ 5''
17. Stanford ....................3-1 )1. Penn State ................. 3-1
able to muscle into the starting mental and physical preparation thrill in football has been going to lit. Iowa Slate ..................3·0 I· 18. Arizona St. .. .. . .. .. . .. . .. . 3-1 ,.' 4' 
II! Oklahoma St. ............. 3-I
lineup this year and must wait this for the upcoming game. Physical Mexico last year to play the I!I~·Oklahoma State ............3-1 19 · 
20. Arkansas ...................3-1 15 • 1fl. Stanford ................... 3-1 l
season, something he has, until preparation can be easily seen by Mexican team. <ND won the game 
now, never done. the amount of time practice 83-0.) 
Jim Donaldson:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:===================:=:=;;:=:=:=:=:=::::::::=============================:::::=
"Bull" attended George consumes. But mental Now Bullock's goal is a national Washington Carver High School in preparation is just as important. championship and bowl game for Newport News, Va., and earned 16 "A major part of the game, over this year, and his name on the varsity letters during his career 50 per cent, is mental, everyone is starting lineup next year. 
The Irish Eye
there. Not only was he a standout a proven athlete, the person who One never knows, Bull may soon in football (once scoring four can mentally psyche himself will forget he was ever in Mexico. touchdowns in one game), but ==========================:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;Sports shorts 
"Bull" also set a state shot put 
record of 60'5", won the state 
Notre Dame's vast offensive improvement over last season can be seen heavyweight wrestljng tour­in the statistics of talented sophomores Eric Penick and Tom Clements. nament, played two years of Penick picked up 65 yards rushing against Michigan State last varsity basketball and baseball, weekend,. boosting his season total to 285 yards, only 52 yards less than 
Bobby Minnix gained in leading all Irish runners in 1971.
and captained the football, Cleme!lts has passed for .411 yards this fall and, with another day like he wrestling, and track teams. 
had agamst Purdue two weeks ago (287 yards), he could surpass Cliff"My biggest game in high school Brown's team leading total of 669 yards last season. 
was the last game of my junior year," Bullock recalls. "We were playing arch rival Huntington Willie Townsend and Darryll Dewan did not take part in Tuesday's High, whose quarterback was Sam practice session, both watching from the sidelines in sweat gear. <AI Samuels who is now an Irish Townsend is nursing a bruised knee and Dewan is suffering from a teammate l. We were down 12-0 at bruised thigh. 
half and we came back to win 14-12 Dave Casper, who has played center, guard, tackle, and tight end, in and stay undefeated and number addition to doing some punting, since coming to Notre Dame, was one in our state." working out at the split end spot with the first unit. Although he stands 6-3 
Many recruiters must have seen and weighs 243 pounds, Casper can sprint 40 yards in 4.7 seconds. that game because, by Bullock's senior year, upwards of 40 colleges 
This weekends's game with Pittsburgh, if it conforms to the recentoffered him athletic scholarships. 
trend of Irish -Panther games, should be most enjoyable for Notre Dame Narrowing them down to North fans.
Carolina State, Colorado, The Irish have beaten the Panthers in each of the eight seasons that Ara Missouri, and Notre Dame, Bull Parseghian has been head coach at Notre Dame. Excluding the 1964finally chose N.D. 
game, when the Irish just slipped by Pitt, 17-15 in Pitt Stadium, NotreAnd Notre Dame· was delighted Dame has outscored the Panthers 354-48. Roundi,..,. off, that makes theto get him. "Bull" ran the 40 in 4.6 
average score of the last seven games !'' ~seconds (second on this year's Pitt doesn't figure to be a much bigger •••reat this season having lost team to Reggie Barnett and Eric 
1 all five of its games, although the setbacks have come ~gainst goodPenick), the 100 in 9.9, and has competition.
tremendous strength to back up The Panthers have fallen prey to Florida State, UCLA, Air Force,this speed. 
Northwestern, and most recently, Tulane. The Green Wave breezed byOn most college teams, Bullock Pitt 38-6 last Saturday in New Orleans.
would be starting this year, but most teams don't have the abundance of good fullbacks N.D. 
Quotable quotes: Eric Penick asked if he thought the football team 
now has. So he must be patient and might suffer from a letdown against admittedly weak Pittsburgh afterlearn the finepoints of the running beating three Big Ten clubs, remarked, "No way. A lot of the start~rs are game from · Cisco and Huff, who Wayne Bullock, Notre Dame's gifted reserve fullback sophomores and sophomores are always scared-of everybody."
are helping him tremendously.
-. 
In the first two games of this 
season the tips "Bull" received Sailors finish third After Notre Dame's win over Michigan State, Chevrolet, the sponsorshave been paying off. "In the first Notre Dame's sailing team Robie Gaw were the Irish tandem of ABC's weekly college football broadcast, presented a $1 000 scholar­game, I was nervous like any other placed third in an 11 school field 
in the other first flight beat. ship to Notre Dame in Penick's name. The sophomore halfback won the game. I'm nervous for all the at the Cary-Price Regatta in Ann Will Donelan handled the skip­honor by being chosen the offensive player of the game. 
games. It wasn't really as bad as I Arbor last weekend. Host team 
perring duties for Notre Dame's
thought it would be," he said. If Michigan took first honors, and 
'~" division boat, with AI Con­
Bullock was nervous, it sure didn't Michigan State was second. Bob Thomas' 47-yard field goal against the Spartans tied him with Paul 
stants and Mike Dooley splitting
show. Playing about 15 minutes The competition was held in 470's Castner for the second longest three-pointer in Irish history. Castner's
time as his crewmen.
and averaging 6.6 yards per carry at Bass Line Lake, just outside the, kick came against Rutgers in 1921. Joe Perkowski holds the record,
Three regattas are on tap for the
shows something about his, campus. Winds plagued nearly all connecting from 49 yards out against Southern Cal in 1961.
Irish sailors this weekend. Meets
abilities. the crews on Saturday afternoon, Thomas is fast closing in on the season and career marks for field
are scheduled against Oshkosh;
In the Purdue game,· "Bull" with constantly shifting breezes goals. The junior placekicker needs only three more field goals this year 
Wayne State in Detroit, and
l 
almost scored a touchdown on the providing rough going. Sunday's, to surpass Joe Azzaro's season mark of eight, set in 1967. Scott Hempel 
Wisconsin in Madison, and tran­
~ 
last play of the game. "I knew it weather proved brighter for Irish: holds the career record of 14, only three more than Thomas has kicked in
sportation for the Irish squad is 
was the last play of the game and hopes, though, as N.D. surged to less then a season and a half.
desparately needed. Interested
t 
when I hit the whole all I could see their show position behind strong, 
parties are asked to either attend
I 
was the goal line. I guess things gusting winds. 
the club meeting tonight at 6:30 in
I Notre Dame's rebuilt defense has given up only 14 points in its first
didn't work out for me this time. It Kevin Hoyt and Bruce Marek 
Room 204 of the Engineering
~ three games this fall and has registered two shutouts. Last year, the
would have been nice to get that formed one of the "A" division
I Building, or call Bruce Marek widely acclaimed Irish defense yielded 16 points in its first three games 
first one, though." crews, and brothers George and (8360) or George Gaw (233-9073)
I and failed to shutout an opponent. 










