----·-------------------~----------­

On The Inside 
U.S. companies not complying with Price Commission Rules 
... page 4 
Vol. VI. No. 119 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Friday, April 28, 1972 

Convention chooses McGovern ••• 

by Jim Dixon Senator GeorgeS. McGovern of South Dakota received the Mock Democratic Convention's nomination for the Presidency yesterday afternoon in Stepan Center. The nomination came on the sixth ballot with McGovern gar­nering a majority with 268 votes. McGovern's only serious challenger was Senator Edward Kennedy who finished with 207 of the 505 votes cast. The race between the two senators was close throughout the balloting, with McGovern holding a 194 to 169 vote lead after the fourth ballot and a 222 to 174 margin after the fifth. other candidates played an important role in the nomination, most notable of which were the backers of Shirley Chisholm, Senator Proxmire, and those of Florida's Governor Reuben Askew. Immediately after the convention was called to order a motion to suspend the quorum rule was passed by a vocal vote. Following this both Chisholm and Jackson supporters asked that thir earlier backers again support them. A motion to reconsider the one man-one vote proposition discussed Wednesday night was made but defeated after short debate. The fourth ballot then began with McGovern picking up large blocks of votes in both New York and Pennsylvania, in both states defeating Senator Kenneday 3 to 1. Florida's block of fifteen votes went to favorite son Askew while Wisconsin's twelve were given to Senator Proxmire. With Senator McGovern falling 59 votes short of a two­thirds majority the convention moved to the fifth ballot. In this balloting McGovern picked up 28 additional votes to Kennedy's 5. The sixth ballot found Wisconsin dividing its vote, giving votes to McGovern and 4 to Kenneday. The voting closed with a rash of states changing their vote, notably Florida who shifted fourteen of its fifteen votes for favorite son Askew to Senator Kennedy. The final tally showed McGovern-268; Kenneday-207; Humphrey-13; Chisholm-6; Askew-5; Jackson-4; Wallace-1 and Rev. Theodore Hesburgh-1. The afternoon session recessed and efforts were made to contact Sen. McGovern to address the evening session. 

Bayh: Narrowly defeats Representative Shirley Chisholm on the fourth ballot despite thin delegate votes. 

• • • and Bayh as his teammate 
by Anthony Abowd 
Senator Birch Bayh of Indiana captured the Vice­Presidential nomination at the Mock Convention by narrowly defeating Rep. Shirley Chisholm of New York on the fourth ballot. 
While the final ballots were tabulated, Frank Mankiewicz, campaign manager for George 

McGovern --the convention's presidentials selection-­announced Bayh's victory. Moments later the 1972 ND addressed the final session of the Mock Convention in a Mock Convention was adjourned. taped telephone conversation. "I think we have good candidates," Andrus said. 
The thin crowd of delegates cast 236 votes on the "McGovern is a realist choice. During the convention fourth and final ballot. Sen. Bayh captured 122 votes to we had our hassles but they were to be expected. I was a 
little disappointed at the turnout but the regulars really worked hard and it was rewarding for most of them," he said. 
Rep. Chisholm's 112. 118 votes were needed to win. This represented a large shift in delegate voting from the third ballot when Chisholm's strength was almost double that of Bayh. 
Earlier ballots for Vice-President showed support for a large number of candidates. Bayh and Chisholm emerged as favorites on the third ballot. Of the 137 votes needed to win in the third ballot, Chisholm polled 126 to Bayh's 64. 
Only two other major candidates remained by the third ballot. One was Allard Lowenstein, who ad­dressed yesterday's session. He receiv~;d 38 votes and Gov. Reuben Askew of Florida tallied 30. 
The first two ballots for Vice-President included almost a dozen major contenders. Most were favorite sons or joke candidates. By the third ballot only four major candidates remained. 
During the balloting Eric Andrus, Mock Convention director, tried to telephone Sen. McGovern in Ohio where he is campaigning. McGovern would not arrive until late so Mankiewic:i taped a ten minute message to the convention delegates. 
"I'll tell him (McGovern) what happened at Notre Dame," Mankiewicz said. "I'm sure he'll be delighted." 
Mankiewicz was sorry McGovern was not cam­paigning in Indiana. Mankiewicz mentioned his "fond memories" of Indiana in 1968 when he was press secretary for Robert Kennedy. 
McGovern's campaign manager also assesed the campaign so far. "Beyond the Ohio primary, things look pretty good for Michigan, Nebraska, Oregon, California and New York. We should have 1200-1250 committed delegates by convention time." 
Mankiewicz expressed hope for a first ballot victory in Miami and urged as many ND students as possible to cross the state border and work for McGovern in the Ohio primary next week. Andrus said that a statement from McGovern himself is expected soon. 
The telephone message was broadcast while the fourth ballot votes were totalled. When the taped conversation ended. Bob Welly, convention chairman, 
Obviously, signs can do more And then there will be the than just identify delegations. rather disappointed losing In this case, a little com­candidates. Ah, well; on to 
mercial value can be noticed. other battles... 

Friday, April 28, 1972
the observer

2 
Washington--A state department spokesman accused North Vietnam of acting in "bad faith" by launching renewed attacks in South Vietnam just on campus today as the American delegation was returning to the negotiating table in Paris. The White House made similar charges. 
world briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

Saigon--In what appeared to be a renewed North Vietnamese a~mpt to take Quangtri City, an attacking force backed by tanks, heavy artill~ry and rockets reportedly drove to within two and a half miles of the city. South Vietnamese commanders said their troops knocked out eight of the attackers' tanks. 
Washington--President Nixon's latest policy statement on the war appeared to have hardened the lines in Congress .. For the first _time, some prominent republicans began to suggest-as Nixon had obliquely-that critics of the administration were giving encouragement to the enemy. 
Bonn--By a mere two votes, an attempt by West Germany's Con­servative opposition to topple the government of Chanellor: _Will Br~t failed. The vote-possible only because one or more opposition deputies voted for Brandt --gave Brandt's 30-month-old coalition a new l~ on life and the possibility of pushing through its policy of better relations with Eastern Europe. 
Detroit--General Motors reported record first quarter profits b_ut refused to reduce any of its prices, as Ford did Wedne_sdar ~ re~g that it had a good first quarter. G.M.'s refusal cou~d brmg It_ mto conflict with the Price Commission, which has been pushmg for pnce rollbacks when profits soar. 
Washington-The United States board of parole granted a parole to Robert G. Baker, the one-time Senate aid to Lyndon B. Johnso~ who was the center of a political scandal in the 1960's. Baker began servmg a one­to three-year sentence on Jan. 14, 1971. He will be freed June 1. 
Campus notes • • • 
European trip 
next Christmas 

A study tour sponsored by the 
SMC history department will be 
offered between the fall and spring 
semesters 1972-73, according to Dr. 
Anthony Black, SMC history 
department chairman. 
The trip will include three weeks 
of travel through the British Isles 
and the Irish Republic, with em­
phasis upon their historical and 
literary background. 
One week will be spent in London 
at a private British Club, then the 
group will travel through England 
on a private bus or van. In London 
at least one night at the theatre or 
ballet will be included and ample 
time each day is set aside for in­
dividual preferences. Major stops 
are planned at Canterbury, 
Salisbury, Stonehenge, Oxford, 
Stratford-on-Avon and York. 
While travelling, visits will be 
made to major points of interest 
along the way such as palaces, 
museums, famous homes, etc. 
The tour will then afford three 
days in Scotland based at historic 
Edinborough. St. Andrews (for 
golf if desired,) Loch Ness, Loch 
Lomand and Glasgow will be 
visited. 
The final week will be spent in Ireland, stopping at Dublin, Boyne Valley, Orogheda, the Vale of Glendalough, Wexford, the Ken­nedy homestead, Waterford, Blarney, Killarney and Limerick. One night at the Abbey Theatre will be included in the Dublin stay. 
The last night will be spent at an authentic medieval banquet in 14th century Bunratty Castle. 
Dr. Black will serve as escort for the trip, and one or two academic credits in history may be earned. Complete cost from New York will range from $650.00 to $675.00 depending on the size of the group. 
Interested students may obtain more information by contacting Dr. Black at 4948. 
Theology faculties meet, to hold talks 
A meeting of chairmen of Catholic theological faculties in English-speaking North Aerica will be held Saturday at the Center for Continuing Education. 

Topics to be discussed include the role of a theology department within the university; in­terdisciplinary teaching and research among theologians, and professional versus academic theological education. 
Attending the meeting,which will be chaired by Rev. David B. Burrell, C.S.C., chairman of Notre Dame's department of theology, will be representatives from St. Paul University and St. Michael's, Regis and Newman Theological Colleges in Canada as well as from theCatholicUniversityof America, Boston College and St. Louis, Marquette and Fordham Universities in the United States. This regional meeting precedes a gathering of the heads of Catholic theology faculties to be held concurrently with he meeting of the International Federation of 
Catholic  Universities  in  
Salamanca, Spain,  next  Sep­ 
tember.  

Art professor gives talk on ND exhibit 

Richard-Raymond Alasko, assistant professor of art and director of the galleries at St Mary's College, will present the final talk in a series scheduled in conjunction with the current Notre Dame exhibit at 3 p.m. Sunday in the art gallery. 
Alasko will discuss the "Property of Pose," a study of the portraits included in the current exhibition of 18th century painting, drawings and sculpture, with special emphasis on Jean-Baptiste Ourdri's "The Hunter." 
The talk is open to the general public without charge. The exhibit will continue until May 16. 
Ski Club chooses officers, plans trip 

The Notre Dame Ski Club chose officers f:>r the next year last night. In a brief meeting Doug Siddoway was picked for 

RoGERs 

Optical 
ltOGER AlWELL -OWNER 

President;  Mike  Kuryla,  Vice  
President;  Carolyn  Castle,  
Secretary  and  Mike  Burns  

Treasurer. 
The newly elected officers an­nounced tentative plans for a trip to Europe during Chirstmas break. President Siddoway also announced a party with "mandatory at­tendance" for Ski Club members on the Monday afternoon before finals at 820 Notre Dame Ave_, 4B. 
Siddoway is a sophomore from Teton City, Idaho; Kuryla is from Detroit City, Mich. Miss Castle is a junior from Niagra Falls N.Y., and Burns hails from Akron, Ohio. 
ND, SMC Theology departments merge 

The Notre Dame Theology Department and the St. Mary's department of Religious Studies will be a co-operative department beginning next fall. 
Free course co-exchange will be available to both Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. The an­nouncement was made yesterday by Fr. David Burell, chairman of the Notre Dame Theology Department. 
Three ND juniors win GE math prizes 
The General Electric Prize for Excellence in Mathematics, awarded to three juniors for the first time this year, have been announced by Dr. Timothy O'Meara, chairman of the Department of Mathematics. 
Michael E. Brown of Daly City, California received the prize for concentrators. William J. Burns of Columbus, Ohio and Steephen E. Hoth of Madison, Wisconsin shared the prize for majors. The three students will each receive $75, the interest on four grants totaling $6.000 from the General Electric I<'ounda tion. 
HOURS: MON -TUES -THlnt -Nl 9 AM 5:30PM 
WfD-SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLETE S!'BCrACLE 
SfRViCE 
ALL E1 E OR.'S PRESCRIPTIONS HONORE[ 
Call 
289-7809 
friday 

3:00 p.m. meeting, indiana academy of science, carroll hall. 
7:30 p.m. meeting, open faculty senate meeting, auditorium, ccc. 
8:00 p.m. concert, liberace, ace. 8:30p.m. musical, showboat, o'laughlin 8:30p.m. concert, tom rush, stepan center. 
sa1turday 4:30p.m reception, alumnae reception for 
seniors, stapleton lounge, lemans hall. 8:00p.m. party, gsu, carroll hall, $1. 8 & 10 p.m. flick, cac, elvira madigan, 
engineering aud., $1. 
8:30 p.m. musical, showboat, o'laughlin auditorium. 
SUinday 2 & 8 p.m. flick, tristiana, carroll hall. 3 p.m. lecture, the property of pose, art 
gallery, O'shaughnessy hall 8 ,& 10 p.m. flick, cac, elvira madigan, engineering aud., $1. 
at n.otre dame -st. mary's 

JIM HIBSCHM,A . PONTIAC 
301 Lincolnway E. Mishawaka 
~ss-4nl 

<SmeraiJ 

'Jeutlf 
Sapp~ire 
18k.!/ewelrg call us ... 
:J..)iamonJ !Jmport Companlf 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS 
Seen by Appointment Suite 602 St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Phone 287-1427 
Machine 1 1-A Andrew PLODOWSKI Democrat Judg~e of Superior Court 
--1700 divorce and child care cases in St 
Joseph County last year. And no full time 
Domestic Relations Court 
--Andrew Plodowski will be a full time Judge of Domestic Relations Court. --Experienced attorney of 18 years. --Notre Dame Law School grad--Doctor
Jurisprudence. Paid Political Announcement 
Friday, April 28, 1972 the observer CirCUS m QXimUS IIIHIIllllllllllllllllllllll1lllllllllUIIlllllUIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Two left -and on to Ohio 
1Ullllll1ll1ll1llllllllliJUJilmllmnumnmlnuUJnuJmmmunmmummJimllnllllllllllllllllllimu''''l'''llllllllllllllllllllllllllm''''ull ullllllllllllllllllllllllllllllmlnmmlumu,mulllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 1111111111111111111 Ed Ellis 
Last Tuesday's Pennsylvania and Massachusetts will go with McGovern. the first majority victory of the primary season has presidential preference primaries told us essentially In Ohio, like in Pennsylvania, the state Democratic been little short of phenomenal. At first, he was what we already knew, i.e. that the candidacy of Ed-machinery has stood with Muskie for several months. thought to be the choice only of the campuses. As the mund Muskie was dead. The Maine Senator admitted While some of the second and third echelon officials ND Mock Convention proved, he is still that. But his that fact officially yesterday morning, and while_ prefered Humphrey, Gilligan held them in line. They strong showing in New Hampshire indicated him to be leaving the door open for a draft, he knows as well as will no doubt be sympathetic to the former vice-more than that. His victory in Wisconsin showed he everybody else that there are other people in the -president at this time. C?uld get some blue-collar support, and although he Senate far more susceptible to a draft than himself. Humphrey has the support of labor, as he did in d1dn't reproduce that in Pennsylvania, he didn't 
The winners were, of course, Sen. George McGovern Pennsylvania, and McGovern is relying on volunteers campaign there either. of South Dakota, and Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey of and students. In Massachusetts, McGovern literally ran Muskie Minnesota. McGovern took all 102 of Massachusetts' Ohio is vital to McGovern because he has yet to prove out of the state, showing support in all areas. In Penn-votes at the Miami convention, plus 37 of Penn-he can win in a big industrial state, and the people in sylvania, he tapped hitherto untouched areas when he sylvania's, which add up to quite a profitable day for Miami must be convinced that he can. dominated the affluent suburbs, although some the winner of the Notre Dame Mock Convention. McGovern's late decision to concentrate on Ohio analysts have claimed that was more of a war-protest 
Humphrey nailed down 57 in the Keystone State, makes it a big state for Humphrey, too. If Humphrey than a vote for McGovern's whole candidacy. We ought winning the showdown very handily. He is also can win, that will make two big industrial states in a also note that in those areas in which he won, prefered by two undecided delegates, and will un-row, and an Indiana kicker will help if he can pull that Republicans outnumber Democrats by about three-to­doubtedly pick up most of Muskie's 29 votes, since they off on the same day. Moreover, the Minnesota Senator one. . were chosen from among old-line machine man in cannot afford to be beaten in head-to-head fighting by a McGovern has even nsen in the latest Harris poll to Philadelphia and Pittsburgh. Since Humphrey controls man party regulars classify as a "fringe candidate." the point where he would collect 29 percent of the vote the elected part of the state delegation, he will get 27 Perhaps the fringe would then have grown bigger than against President Nixon, given a Wallace candidacy in more delegates, since the elected delegates chooses the center, which Humphrey now occupies unopposed. addition. While this is by no means a claim to victory, it them. And s~ould th~ state machinery come around to The prediction right now is that Humphrey will win repres_ents a big increase in recent months. Perhaps the former v1ce-pres1dent, he'll have the 18 others who in Ohio and hold off the Wallace challenge in Indiana. I there IS more to come. are elected by the state Democratic Committee. So t won't be easy, and polls have noted that quantum Yet to Be Done Humphrey, too! had a good day. . . shifts in voter opinion tend to be more common in days 
Wallace receiVed 22 percent of the W1sonsm vote a preceding primary elections than in national elec-Several items must still be covered by the South few weeks ago, and with minimal campaigning, he tions. ' Dakota Senator if he is to lay claim to the Democratic held his ground in Pennsylvania, with 23 percent and a On to California nomination. First, he must use his tremendous second place finish. He captured two delegates in the organization to capture a big industrial state con­
The primary trail has stops every week not until well 
state. vincingly, especially one in which he defeats Hum­
into June, including a short stop in Alabama Next
The primaries of April 25, then, eliminated one more phrey. Therein lies the importance of the Ohio primary
Tuesday while Governor Wallace is campaigning in
from the once-burdgeoning field of Democrattic next Tuesday.
Indiana. Michigan on May 16 will be important, but the 
contenders. There are now only two: Hubert Hum­Second, and facilitated by the first, he must gain the 
presence of a dozen names on the ballot tends to con­
phrey and George McGovern and the Ohio primary support of the old-line party leadership. Ohio and
fuse things a bit. Wallace is rated a strong contender 
May 2 will go a long way toward deciding the issue Michigan could help here, too, but McGovern's image
there, espeicially since busing is such a big issue.
between the two of them. may prove to be the key. The bosses remember that
Humphrey will put his labor support to the test and 
McGovern was the head of the commission that
McGovern will face another multi-cornered battle for 
Ohio and Indiana rewrote the rules of 1972, and they are quick to note

the blue-collar vote. (It might be noted here that the 
that he is winning by them. In some way, he must betIn some ways, Humphrey will be in the same position blue-collar vote in Pennsylvania went almost exlud­their support, or a dangerous split could develop innext Tuesday that Muskie was in last Tuesday. He is sively for Humphrey. Wallace got some of it, and Miami,--one that brings back memories of the Gold­entered in two primaries in two demographically Mu::;kie won in some Polish area, but McGovern's water nomination in 1964.
different states, and he faces stiff opposition in both. In strength was situated basically in the affluent Finally, McGovern must find some way to attract
Ohio, latest soundings have him ahead of Philadelphia suburbs.) 
Wallace votes. A prospective scenario of the MiamiMcGovern but McGovern is closing fast. In Indiana, he After Michigan, the big one will be California on June 
convention would have McGovern and Humphreyleads Wallace, but not by much, and his decision to 6. This takes on added importance because all 271 deadlocked with Wallace holding the key. A tiebreaker concentrate on Ohio instead of the Hoosier state may delegates elected there go to the winner. Were either could well by Edward Kennedy, an uncandidate ac­
cost him. McGovern or Humphrey to put together a string in­ceptable to both factions, and independent of Wallace. 
Muskie is on the ballot in both states, too, and a cluding Ohio, Michigan and California, the ballgame In short, there remains much to be done before either degree of uncertainty is involved since Muskie's might well be over. Polls today show Humphrey and George McGovern or Hubert Humphrey win thesupporters have not moved en masse to either of the McGovern even in California. 
Democratic nomination. Both may even be denied the 
frontrunners as yet. A reasonable guess is that McGovern's Rise prize. But now it looks very much like one of the two. AHumphrey will be the chief beneficiary, although week from now, we'll be able to tell much more clearly. 
rumors have started that Ohio Governor John Gilligan The rise of George McGovern from near-obscurity to 
Muskie withdraws from active participation 
by James Doyle penditure of resources in every primary possible mistakes in tactics in his cam­with a maximum impact in none." paign, including two questions specifically 
(c) 1972 Washington Star "Nowhere were the consequences of such about his crying incident in New Hamp­a strategy more clearly demonstrated than shire. He said he would try to sort out where 
Washington, April 27 -Sen. Edmund S. in Wisconsin, Massachusetts and Penn­t'l.ctics might have gone wrong.Muskie of Maine announced today he was sylvania -diminishing results and Two months ago Muskte was viewed bywithdrawing from active participation in diminishing resources.'' political reporters and most Democratic 
the remaining Presidential primaries after In answer to a question, Muskie said that politicians as the favorite for the 
his political collapse at the polls. delegates already pledged to him were nomination. Some of them hedged their 
"I do not withdraw my candidacy," he being released so they would "feel free to predictions in public but few doubted 
told a crowded news conference in the new reassess their commitment." privately that Muskie would be the 
Senate office building. Finances, he said, were a "critical" Democratic nominee. 
He released the delegates who were factor in his decision. He said he had Then came the primaries. Muskie's front­
elected as pledged or favorable to him but "always had a question in my mind" runner position eroded steadily from the 
said that at the urging of friends and sup­whether it would be possible to get sufficient day the first ballots were cast March 7 in 
porters, he would "welcome and ap­financing for the kind of campaign he New Hampshire. He won there and two 
preciate" the efforts of those who contine to wanted to run. "Finally," he said, "we weeks later in Illinois, but defeats in 
work for him in the non-primary states. came to the end of the line financially." Florida, Wisconsin, Massachusetts and 
"I will continue to speak out on the issues, Who, he was asked, would he now Pennsylvania left his campaign in disarray,around the country and from the senate evaluate as the Democratic front-runner. "I his aides disheartened and his financial 
floor," Muskie said. "I will be more actively don't," he said simply. resources depleted.
involved in legislative work, pressing for the Asked if he would be available for the Vice Yesterday afternoon the Senator was 
changes in public policy, which I have been Presidential nomination, Muskie said, closeted with his top aides who told him it 
urging in the course of the campaign." "no." was futile to continue in the primaries 
He said his early decision to run in the He hedged when asked if he thought he because he lacks the resources to carry on. 
first eight presidential primaries "was a might wind up as a compromise candidate The 58-year-old Muskie has been com­
mistake.'' at the Democratic convention. "It's a plaining lately that the unpaid bills were Muskie said, "no other candidate made a possible option," he said and did not piling up. That has been a common oc­
similar commitment. It required that I elaborate. curence in the Democratic party, which is 
make a major effort and a major ex-Muskie also sidestepped questions about still deep in debt from the 1968 campaign. 

VOLUNTEERS 

(FRONTIER APOSTULATE) needs teachers, tradesmen, office ~nd kitchen help, nurses. One thousand have shared since 1956. Lon9 hours, hard work, no pay. (Room and board plus $25 month.) Accept. challenge of missionary diocese: Bring faith and love; find hope, fulfillment. Write today. Bishop Fergus O'Grady, 
O.M.I. 778 College Road, Prince George, B.C., Canada 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for 58 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre Dame. lruf... 
Attention all Seniors -Juniors-and ­Sophomores -to -be in the Notre Dame College of Arts and Letters 
Interviews for membership onthe 1972-73 
ARTS AND LETTERS STUDENT ADVISORY COUNCIL 
will be conducted next week. To apply, contact the Dean's Office at 6642 before s· pm Monday, May 1 

WED, MAY 3 
8:30 in the Ace 
Ticket Prices 
$4.50 $2.75 
Tickets on sale at: 
ACC 
9 5 
Union Ticket office 
11:1512:15 4:15-5:15 
Dining Hall Sale Tonight Tickets going fast ... some good seats still available 
the observer Friday, April28, 1972
4 
Companies not following rules 
<cl 1!172 New York Times 
Washington, April 27--Nearly half of all major American corporations have yet to comply with Price Commission regulations requiring the filing of quarterly earnings reports, a ranking member of the Com­mission's staff disclosed today. 
The deadline for these com­
panies to file their reports with the 
Commission is Monday, he added. 
As of now, 700 out of a total of 
I,600 Tier One companies -those 
with sales of $100 million a year or 
more --have either not filed the 
reports or have filed inadequate 
reports, the Commission official 
said. 
The Commission uses these 
reports to determine if companies 
are in compliance with its rules 
limiting profit margins to base period levels. The base period is the average of the best two of the last three fiscal years of any company. 
Because of the laxity of com­panies in filing these reports, the Commission staff member said, the Commission is considering imposing more stringent sanctions against companies that violate regulations in reporting. 
One new sanction under con­sideration is the freezing of all prices of companies that violate Commission regulations by failing to report properly. 
Now the available penalties are limited largely to fines of $2,500 or $5,000 for each violation. 
Peter F. Carpenter, executive director of the Commission, saiii in an interview today that it had not yet been decided whether the more 


InternationaI Students Association 
.. The new officers are: (from left to right) sitting, Amaury Velez (Puerto Rico), President, Judy Fong (Panama), Secretary and SMC coordinator; standing, 
John Curran (New Zealand), Treasurer, and Juan Camilo Fabrega (Panama), Vice President_ Missing is Manuel Lacayo (Nicaragua), Notre Dame Coor­dinator. 
stringent penalties would be adopted. The Commission may reach a decision on the issue next Tuesday, he said. 
The Commission staff also is considering new ways to use the profit-margin test to strengthen its anti-inflation program, Carpenter explained. 
One possibility being examined, he said, was adoption of new rules enabling the Commission to roll back prices of companies that had exceeded their base period profit margins even if those companies had not raised their prices at all. This proposal would also have to be voted on by the Commission before it could be implemented. 
Meanwhile, the price Com­mission today ordered four more 
companies, all of them retail or 
wholesale establishments, to roll 
back their prices. 
The companies are Scrivner­Boogaart Inc., a wholesale food concern in Oklahoma City, Okla.; 

Bruno's Fooo Stores, Birmingham, Ala.; Godfrey Company, a retain and wholesale Food Company is Wisconsin; and Eckerd Drugs, Inc., A chain of stores in the South with headquarters in Charlotte, N.C. 
The Commission said that the quarterly reports submitted by these companies indicated that their profits had exceeded base period margins. 
The Commission ordered the four companies "To reduce the selling price of their goods and services by an amount sufficient to ensure that the profit margin reported by the firms at the end of their fiscal year will not exceed their base period profit margin." 
The Godfrey Company, which had completed its fiscal year, was also ordered to lower its prices in such a way as to refund three times the amount of its overcharges in its next fiscal year. 
In a speech to the National Press 
Interested in learning more about Environmental Problems? 
Consider registering tor 213: 
Man and His Environment 
Topics Include: population, water & waste water air pollution, noise pollution, environmental law. 
Sequence no. 770800 





FREE 
Club today, G. Jackson Grayson Jr., the Chairman of the Price Commission, expressed the fear that controls may become a per­manent feature of American life. 
Grayson emphasized that he was not making a scientific prediction nor did he necessarily reflect the views of the Nixon administration. Rather, he explained, his fear grew out of his assessment of the drift of American Society. Unless some basic changes are made in United States institutions and practices, controls will recur, even if the present program succeeds, Grayson said. 
• The TnJP. lw•ury Corl 
• 
The World's Mo<,l Un1quP. (ml 

• 
Voted The Car Of ThP. YP.arl 


SED SPECIALS OF THE WEE 
71 VOLKSWAGEN Super Automatic, 'Really Nice Car. 70 VOLKS Convertible, 2-Door, Red 66 MGB New Top, New Tires ondition 64 PORSCHE 356C A real collector's item 71 850 SPIDER 2 to choose from 
auto/sport 
CITROEN~ 
ODDII 
U.S. 31 N., South Bend Phone 272 2854 


FOLK CONCERT 
(SPREAD THE WORD )
r 
,r Sun. April 30
~ 
8:00 pm 12:00 mid. Washington Hall 
Performing will be: Chris Marut & Jim Gresser Cindy Corsaro Butch Ward Katy Sullivan 
Ham.mons & Krill Rick ,Walters Linda Crikalier Stoney Gilmartin 
EVERYONE WELCOME sponsored by STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 

Friday, April 28, 1972 the observer 
5 

Humphrey and McGovern now top Demo contenders 
by Paul Hope sider dropping out of Ohio. 
(c) 1972 New York Times Last night, State Sen. Robert 
Cleveland, Ohio, April 27 -&en. Blakemore, chairman of the Edmund Muskie's decision _t,o Democratic Party in Summit abandon the Presider,tial county where Akron is located, · primaries changes the complexio"l switched from Muskie to Hum­of next-Tuesday's contest in Ohio­phrey. Blackemore's name is on and leaves his backers here in a the Muskie slate of delegates, and quandary. ther is nothing he can do about that 
The race becomes a mueh more but he urged fellow Democrats at a important test of strength between Humphrey rally in Akron to get Sens. Hubert Humphrey and behind the Minnesota Senator. George McGovern . who have "I hope Governor Gilligan will emerged as the leading contenders get the message that has been for the Democratic nomination. clear for three weeks---that we 
And Muskie's departure creates need a broad-spectrum candidate a dilfmma for his backers here. like Hubert Humphrey," he said. They include Gov. John Gilligan, Blakemore's wife is a candidate on who had considered running as a Humphrey's delegate slate. He favorite-son candidate until the said he signed up as a Muskie Muskie organization twisted his delegate himself because of arm several months ago and won pressure from Gilligan. his backing. Blakemore said he expected that 
It is believed that Gilligan, most of the party professionals seeing certain defeat for Muskie would switch to Humphrey but he and embarrassment to himself, said Gilligan might endorse helped persuade Muskie to con-McGovern. He said it is possible 
Private sessions planned 
Paris talks resu.me 
by Henry Giniger 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Paris, April 27 -The Vietnam peace conference resumed today after a month's break with a fruitless session but with a firmer 
prospect than ever before of secret 
talks between the United States 
and North Vietnam. 
Each side accused the other of 
aggression and of a refusal to 
negotiate seriously. Each gave the 
other another week to change its 
stand with an added threat by the 
US to suspend the talks again. 
But Nguyen Minh Vy, Hanoi's 
spokesman, announced that Le 
Due Tho, the Politburo member 
who has been North Vietnam's 
secret negotiator in the past, would 
return before the week was out. 
The ordinarily cautious Vy ad­
ded: "It is probable that there will 
be private meetings." 
In accordance with custom, the American side refused to comment on private sessions but expressed interest in what Tho might have to offer. Emerging from the con­ference room on A venue Kleber, William Porter, the chief American negotiator, said, "I sure hope that when Le Due Tho arrives 
UPI reporters disaccredited 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Saigon, April 27-Two correspondents of United Press International were disaccredited today after they were charged by United States military authorities with reporting troop movements before they were released for publication. 
One of the correspondents, Alan Dawson, had his accreditation from the US Military Assistance Command, Vietnam, suspended for 45 days effective today, because of a story he filed April 11 about the movement of a battalion of the American 196th Light In­fantry Brigade from Danang to Phubai outside Hue. 
The other, Kim Wlllenson, was 
informed today that he must 
surrender his accreditation by thE' 
Government of South Vietnam for 
reporting last Saturday night that 
South Vietnamese airborne troops 
were moving from the Kontum 
area back to Saigon. 
Cancellation of the government's 
accreditation card automatically 
results in cancellation of the US 
Command's accreditation. 
Government cancellation can also 
entail revocation of a 
correspondent's visa permitting 
him to stay in Vietnam. 
Both correspondents plan to 

moves against them, 
here he's got better than what they produced in there today." Porter opened the session by declaring: 
"The question for you to answer today is whether you are prepared, as a first item of business, to discuss measures which will put an end to this invasion. We are willing to engage immediately in the discussion of such matters. I propose specifically that you agree to end your invasion and com­mence the withdrawal of North Vietnamese troops from South Vietnam. Obviously, if concrete progress on that score can be achieved, there could be a corresponding reduction in the level and intensity of our retaliatory response to that in­vasion." 
Porter said he was ready to meet again next ·IVeek if such time was needed to get an answer. "You will understand, however," he said, "that in the light of the situation created by your invasion of South Vietnam, it will not be practical to hold meetings if you continue to refuse to deal with the substance of the present invasion and general problems of peace, including prisoners of war and those missing in action." 
The US had suspended the talks March 23 on the ground the other side was avoiding substantive discussions, and engaging solely in propaganda. 
"The Vietnam problem is the problem of the US aggression and the Vietnamese people fighting against aggression. The United States' claim about invasion of South Vietnam by North Vietnam is absurd," Xuan Thuy, Hanoi's negotiator~ retorted. 
Thuy went on to demand that the US honor its 1968 commitment to halt the bombing of the North and that it abandon the vietnamization program and respond to the Vietcong's seven-point peace program. This calls essentially for complete and unconditional American withdrawal from Vietnam and the removal of the Saigon administration. 
Later, Thuy warned that if the US continued Vietnamization, the process of building up the South Vietnamese army to replace with­drawing American forces, as well as to maintain President Nguyen Van Thieu in power and to escalate the attacks on the Norht, "It will be defeated by the rigorous counter thrusts of the Vietnamese people of the two zones." 
Thuy asked if the US was prepared to halt those actions and, in the manner of Porter, said he agreed to meet next week to hear his answer. But having insisted on the resumption of the conference, he did not adopt Porter's threat of that McGovern could win the state. 

However, Humphrey generally is considered ahead in Ohio and a victory here next Tuesday probably would project him as the front-runner nationally. 
Following his victory in Penn­sylvania, it would be Humphrey's second win in a major industrial state. 
On the other hand, a victory for McGovern would make him the man to beat. Not only would it slow down Humphrey, but it would prove dramatically that McGovern has a broad base of support. 
By beating Humphrey here, McGovern might even go on to enough primary victories for a first--ballot nomination at the July convention in Miami Beach, something that hardly anyone but the Senator and his aides thought remotely possible a few weeks ago. 
But Ohio is an uphill battle for McGovern. Until two weeks ago, his prospects here looked so dim that he had decided against campaigning even though he had filed a full slate of delegates. Ohio will elect 153 delegates to the national convention. 
With his sweep of Massachusetts Tuesday and his surprising pickup of -n delegates in Pennsylvania, whre he came in third in the popular vote, McGovern has won more delegates to date than any candidate. 
According to an Associated Press count, McGovern emerged with a total of 234.5 delegates, sweeping past Muskie, who wound up with 128.5. 
''Hello, LibertyFoundry? The bellyou sent us ;Ust cracked." 
More and more companies are publishing long distance 
telephone numbers for customers to report manufacturing 
defects. They know it's the easiest way to iron out problems. 
More economical, too. For example, you can call Philadelphia, 
Pa. for less than $1.00 when you dial direct after 5:00p.m. 
Next time you want faster action on any problem, get it the 
easy, economical way. Dial direct. 


1 deliveries phone 234-3258 lgay hours from 4-7 daily-all drinks40c 
HAPPY DAY CARE CENTRE 
cordially invites everyone to an OPEN HOUSE CHILDREN 
ART EXHIBITION 
on Sunday April 30th between 3-5 pm in St. Mary's Clubhouse 
, 1 ~ 1,
,
,
,
,
, 
~ 
~ 
j 
~ 
, 
1 
~ 
1 
, 1 
j 
~
, 
~ 
, 1 
1 
,
, 
, ~ 
1 
,
, , 
"'1 
., 
,
, 
,
,
,
, 
1 
1 
i 
, ~ 1,,
,
, 
, 
1 
r 
' 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r r r 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPJIPER 

John Abowd Jim Jendryk Editor-in chief Business Manager
News: 283-1715 Editoria I: 283-8661 
Don Ruane Bill BauerleBusiness: 283-7471 Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, 
on behalf of the editorial board. Co!umns reflect the opinion of the 
individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Friday, April 28, 1972 

! 
r 
r 

Better controls 
r 
r 
A "ranking member" of the price commission ,r said yesterday that "nearly half of all major cor­porations have yet to comply with price commission
r 
r regulations." Even though Nixon's wage-price 
r controls go one step beyond the Kennedy-Johnson guideposts by including bonafide sanctions they are falling prey to the same maladay: uneven en­forcements. While the price commission is able to levy fines of $2 500 to $5000for each violation, such a sanction is like charging U.S. Steel$1,000 a day for air pollution violations. As long as the penalty does not constitute a major production cost, it will not result in com­pliance with the price regulations. 
Public Opinion Enforcement 

The principle enforcement measure of Nixon's price regula lions, then, is not formal sanctions but publicopinion. As long as the public believes that the wage and price commissions are acting in an even­handed firm manner, confidence will be high and the pollcy, even if it remains primarily voluntary, will be effective. 
When controls are enforced on a primarily voluntary basis, the effectiveness stems from public embarassment of the firms and unions that do not comply. The news that half of the major firms have not complied should further erode an already waning public confidence. The probable result is that these companies will never comply and the shaky price controls will come tumbling down. 
Now-real Sanctions 

This would be unfortunate because the wage-price controls were a good idea. The differential en­forcement of the measures, though, constituted creating exceptions with no real rationale. Now that the informal enforcement measures have failed, Nixon should authorize stringent legal sanctions-­measures that would limit the profit margin of the individual companies and limit wage increases to cost-of-living plus productivity gains. 
These policies should be enforced by a joint labor­management-government board which could litigate a challenge within one week. With real confidence in his inflation control policies. Unless he does, the claim that he has "healed" the economy will have a hollow ring indeed. 
John Abowd 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Letter...... . 
Editor: 
I would like to express my disappointment with last night's actions at this convention. It has, indeed, become a "mock." 
Earlier this week, the majority of this convention adopted a set of 
r rules, such as the two-thirds majority and the insufficent delegation plan. Somehow I still believe that a one man, one vote approach was the only way to really reflect the mind of the assembly. I can't help feeling thhat the Kennedy and McGovern people backed another proposal solely for the reason that they felt their candidate would benefit the most from it. That really wasn't fair, but it was typical of political greed. The only place selfishness was not apparent was the platform committee, on both the sub­committee level and in the 71h hour debate. Here there was a genuine exchange of ideas; here was the 
on the mock convention 
education we were supposed to ready for change, that we are 
reap from this convention. If ready to commit ourselves to a nothing else, I have listened to and challenge. Will the nomination of considered the opinions of many either McGovern or Kennedypeople. I have made the mean anything significant? 
acquaintances of truly wonderful Lawrence O'Brien told us that people like Eric Zagrans and the two-party system is at stake in Eileen Fitzpatrick; I have come to this year's election. This Mock respect Floyd Kezele and Bill Convention had a great potentialHampton. For the reason of people for showing the people of South alone, this convention has been Bend and the Notre Dame com­worthwhile to me personally. munity our genuine support of the 
It is a pity that the adopted Democratic Party as a symbot of platform could not have been our beliefs. Our actions last nightdiscussed more fully on the floor. It have reduced this assembly to a has a lot to say, offering proposals mere shadow of what it might have for a better America. I would ask been. The outcome is now in­all delegates to read it through consequential.sometime. It's worth the time. Today is a beautiful spring day. I 
The vote stands deadlocked. I plan to enjoy it. I want to catch up am disappointed. I am disap­on my work. graduate and go home pointed that the backers of Shirley to work for liberal Democrats in Chishom folded after the first two New York. We are not helping our ballots. Ms. Chisholm's party here. nomination here may not have meant much politically but it Tom Dombkowski would have shown that we are North Dakota delegation llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllflllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 

Discrimination and CAP 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 B0 b Hi 9 9 ins 
With the advent of co--education, one hears a goodly amount of talk about what discriminatory practices, if any, will be enforced against our sister student. This is all very fine, but as I contemplate the morass of registration, I am struck by the current existance of an extremely discriminatory practice which, to my knowledge, no one has attempted to remedy. 
The culprit is the Committee for Academic Progress (better known as the CAP>. This is a group of supposedly exceptional students whom this University feels, because of their superiority over their peers, should be granted special academic privileges. 
Now whenever one takes it upon himself to accuse an institution of discrimination, while he is on the outside (i.e. a member of the group to which the discrimination is directed) he stands to be termed anything from envious to a mere crybaby. Perhaps this is at least partially the reason CAP has never been questioned before. I feel, however, that it must be investigated, and what more appropriate time than registration? 
Consider this: At the end of the upcoming week, more than 75 per cent of Notre Dame's students will have stood in lines of various lengths to obtain courses, many only to be turned away. A good number of them will be disgusted, disappointed and frustrated. Yet, no student, academically superior enough to be placed in CAP will have any of these difficulties because they are granted the privilege of registering a few days prior to the rest of the University. They have theinitialshot at the popular cour­ses. This, of course, means that this year's juniors, who have contributed a sum in excess of $9,000 each to the Univeristy in tuition, may and often are. prevented from taking the courses of their choice by sophomores and freshmen who have been chosen as academically superior. 
Moreover, consider the matter of requirementsFewdepartmentsin this University are without some undesirable requirements, which all of us, if possible, would love to avoid. A perfect example is the Collegiate Seminar requirement in the College of Arts and Letters. This course is required of all juniors, that is all juniors except those in CAP. This "academically superior" group of intellectuals can, and almost always do, persuade their respective counsellors that they should be allowed to transcend the ob­vious boredom and stupidity of meaningless courses such as Collegiate Seminar, which are offered only for the consumption of the rabble anyway. 
In addition, consider the matter of counselling. This is, without a doubt, one of the University's most pressing needs. Arts and Letters students, for the most part, see their counsellors once a semester, at registration time, CAP students, on the other hand, meet with their counselor at least bi-weekly and receive true academic counseling. 
What appears most offensive to me, is the cost of CAP. For all the advantages the privileged student receives, he pays nothing more. He sleeps, while you wait hours in line for one course; he attends interesting classes, while you sweat through two semesters of Collegiate Seminar; and he sees his advisor regularly while you lie in wonderment at the vast academic maze of this University. All this is free to the CAP student which of course means someone else is paying for it. 
That someone, unfortunately, is us. Since CAP students pay no more for increased services, the rest of the students, (the non-academically superior) are subsidizing the program. It is primarily this consideration which has caused me to expose this inequitous discrimination. I would propose as a solution, the opening of CAP to all students who could afford to pay its additional cost. However, I feel an even better solution would be the elimination of the program. All students pay equal tuition and are usually treated equally. Registration, requirements and counseling should be no different. 
111111111111111 !1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
The Staff 

Nite Editor: Joe Abell 
Ass't Nite Editress: Maria Gallagher 
Day Editors: Pete Fries, Tom Drape 
Typists: the gang 

Nite Controllers: Glen Corso, hjs 
What's that about split 't' formations, john? 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
7

Friday, April 28, 1972 the observer 

triangulate on these coordinates 
mike noonan star trek II 
Logic worthy of a Vulcan, he pronouned that 
--His mother and all her lineage are human. "command decision" on behalf of the entire 
--The H.Q. of Star Fleet is on earth. lying in bed is better than reading Star Trek 
--His blood has copper in place of iron and Federation. At the end of such an episode,
-A whining hand phazer is in over-load and 
books and issued a royal decree that all
it's green. . Uhura says, "Captain, we've just heard
it's about to explode. shuttle craft considered at ND have the
--If I were he, I would kill Dr. McCoy, who IS from Star Fleet; they say they'll back up
--A star ship's crew is 440 people big. 
serial number I say. That is NCC-1701, the 
a maniac. whatever decision you make."
--The best protected part of the ship is sick same as the Enterprise. ,
--There are little Vulcans because every
bay. For those who want harder questions,
seven years they are taken over by an I've heard from many people that the
-Scott's first name is Montgomery. here are a few.
unresistable mating urge. questions were too easy. I met a bunch of
--Nurse Chapel's name is Chapel and she's 1. When, why and how did the Enterprise,
--Harry Mudd is a henpecked husband. guys who had an incredible thing: a 200 page
fond of Spock. acting on Federation orders, deliberately
----The Enterprise normally is moved by its paperback "Star Trek Handbook". Along
--Spock's second name is u~pronoucable. and without provocation break a treaty?
warp drive engines which depend on a with every other possible thing, it contained 
-The Enterprise only travels m one galaxy 2. Name both of Spock's parents.
matter-antimatter rea tor kept under control a picture of the shuttle craft with a serial
normally. That shows how realistic the show 3. Spock once asked his father why he ever
by dilithium crystals. It has a back-up number different from any of the choices. I
is. married his mother. What did his father 
system called Impulse engines which remember making careful note of the
--The galaxy is divided up between the answer? 
depend on atomic fussion and is only good number while watching the show, but I
Federation, the Clingons, and the a. It seemed to be the logical thing to do. 
for sub-light speeds. admit that I was lying doped up in bed in a
Romulans. b. Well son, you know that ol' seven year
--Sub-space interference prevents the hospital.
--Sulu is the Japanese helmsman. itch. 
captain from contacting star fleet for or­So in all fairness I took the question to our
--Spock's rank is Commander. c. Who says we're married? 
ders. He is thus compelled to make a King for an arbitrary judgement. Using
--His father is a Vulcan diplomat. 4 Draw the Clingon and Romulan warships. 

showboat sails tonight 
Bernt as Steve, the "handsomest leading man on the showboat"; Helen Fricker as 
The Kern-Hammerstein musical, Parthy Hawks, Captain Andy's prim wife; 

elton iohn wednesday 
Showboat. will be presented by the Notre Joan Zimmerman as Ellie; and Don Shea as 
DamP--St. Mary's theatre April 28 and 29, Frank Shultz. 
and May 4, 5, and 6 at 8:30 p.m. in Songs from the musical include the O'Laughlin Auditorium on St. Mary's familiar "Old Man River," and "Life Upon campus. the Wicked Stage," "Make Believe," "Mter 
Showboat is a classical musical comedy the Ball," and "Can't Help Loving That 
concerning life on a traveling riverboat Man." which travels from St. Louis to Natchez Showboat has been choreographed by e~te~t~ini_ng. the towns dotting the Peter Gennaro, choreographer for Radio Mis~ISSIPPI River. ~elodramas and dance City Music Hall. Sets have been designed by routmes amaze t~e s~mple people who flock Richard Bergman, technical director for the to se~ the fascmatmg Showboat run by ND-SMC theatre, and lighting by Ellen Captam Andy_ Hawks, played byScott Wahle, Harrington. Costumes, numbering over 200, .Other leadmg members of_ th~ cast, have been designed by Patricia Gruska, dire~ted by Dr. Roger Ken":m, mclude Musical direction is by Thomas Doyle. Man beth Fencl_ as Magnoha Hawks; Tickets are $2.50, and $2 for students, ND­~homas C. Brodenck as Gaylord Ravenal,_a SMC faculty and staff. Ticket information nver gambler; Sue Maher as Juhe and reservations may be received by calling 
LaVerne, the leading lady of the showboat 
2844141 or 284--4176. 
and "Sweetheart of the South"; Raymond 

beetles II 
If, by some chance, you may have hea~d that it will end by 2 a.m., although if people some very loud and very old Beatie music still remain the promoters are willing tofloating around campus last Saturday night, continue past the two o'clock hour. 
you got a small preview of what is to come With the help of Student Union funding,this Saturday at Holy Cross Hall. 
free refreshments will be provided, whileFor the second time this year, certain they last, but all are urged to "bring theirfanatical, but lovable Beatie Freaks are own." There will also be a free drawingpresenting a Beatles Festival open to all held with the winner being given the Beatie students at Saint 1Mary's and Notre album of his choice. As last time, there will
Dame. 
be a PA system set up for outside listening. 
The first was held last October as alter­What the promoters term as a "supernative entertainment to the Johnny Cash stereo" will be set up. The system consists concert. Termed as an outrageous success, of guitar amps placed at extreme ends of thethe sponsors said that more than 450 very hallway facing the lake from windows, each happy Beatles people attended. 
broadcasting a separate channel. TheThe original festival began as a private result is an f!Xtremely exaggerated stereoaffair to pass a quiet Saturday evening for effect. This will allow people to romp andfive or six people, but grew in proporionLPs to his credit. Each signifying sales in frolic on the lawn by the lake while listening until it reached its eventual size. The basic Elton John in concert, an evening's en-excess of $1-million, they are "Elton John," to the music. The PA system will also serveidea behind the event was to provide free, tertainment led by the most influential rock "Tumbleweed Connection," "Friends," and to broadcast music to a large part of the easy, and enjoyable entertainment for amusic personality to emerge in the last two "Madman Across the Water." · 
campus. years, is scheduled for May 3at the ACC: Whether with albums or singles, he's a 
large number of people, and that's exactly The first festival ran very smoothly andwhat it did. The sponsors have decided toTickets for the 8:30 appearance are pnced best-seller chart regular. 
very peaceably, with no trouble at all, andtry it again this weekend, a relatively dead at 5.50, 4.50, 2. 75 and available at the ACC. The songs presented most often reflect the the promoters ar hoping for the same thisweekend. And so, Beatie Festival II is in theJoining John are Nigel Olsson on drums, joint efforst of John, who does the music, time. Last time we had 450 people, but this 
making.
Dee Murray on bass and Davey Johnstone and lyricist Bernie Taupin. They met w~en time due to increased promotion, theThe ideas behind the second festival are
on lead guitar. they both answered an ad for fledgmg memories and the spreading stories of thethe same, and so is the basic format, butThe Uni Records artist, whose newest composers four years ago, and they've been success of the first festival, a minimum ofsome changes are being made. For onealbum is "Honky Chateau," has four Gold working together ever since. 
600 people are expected.
thing, the starting time has been changed. 
"This is only an estimate of the minimum," The first festival was begun at 6:30p.m., but 
• since it takes nearly twelve hours to go said one promoter, "and we are hoping for, and expecting more." He added that they

notre arne 1n may 
through all nineteen albums once, it didn't are depending upon the people that come toofficially end until 6:30 a.m. 
make Beatie Festival II the success the first 
So Saturday's fest will begin at 2 p.m. so was, and to keep it smooth and trouble free. The magnolias and dogwoods have already All about us we hear the song of rebirth and blossomed renewal. 
And with their pink and white banners ::lur souls yearn to join the spring 
announce the month of flowers. MONDAY MAY 1 7:00 P.M. AT THE does not each one of us want to be thought of
symphony. . . 
GROTTO
The hyacinths wash the spring air with Even amidst the ominous air of upcommg as one who cares, one who loves? 
sweet ester-fragrance, finals . So let's come together as a community -a Attracting the bees from their hives. ·The song finds a way to ignite a flame m The month is May, Mary's month. The unity. Let's celebrate May. Let's celebrate And surely, the gold-crowned, regal-red our hearts. university is Notre Dame, Our Lady's Our Lady, the guardian of the university.
university. The celebration is for Mary, our And let us pray for peace. Whether you
tulips Will soon reign over the flower beds. But something in the song is lacking. The Mother. Don't feel shy or self-conscious come to honor Our Lady, to praise her, to 
about coming. We too often take ourselves thank her for favors received, or even to joinchorus too seriously when it really is not necessary. the crowd in celebration, you are mostSings not in unison. The voices are 
A new freshness fills the air, Did not Our Lord say we must be like little certainly invited and welcome. The whole
Hesitant, and uncertain. They turn to one 
Announcing rebirth everywhere. children~ That is to be simple, un­ND-SMC community is invited, which in­
another . 
complicated. And are we not really very cludes: students, faculty, administration,Robins, cardinals, and sparrows Looking for a clue. In their inmost ?ei~g 
tiny in the eyes of God, the all-powerful one? secretarial help and services personnel (our Join the silent song of the flowers. They know something is awry, somethmg IS But more than that, we are children by H!s faithful maids, our charming cooks, and
They sing out the cold, lacking. And then ... 
oredilection. And in the same way Mary IS excellent ground crew). 
While singing in the warm. 
The royal tulips bob their heads and cry our Mother. 
Further details will appear in Monday's
The robins clasp the dogwoods' branches Do not let "laissez faire" be the motto for Observer. So bring your love, petitions and Venerable oaks, elms, and sycamores . 
And still as statues lift their heads skyward your relationships with your fellow mar:, voices. The celebration will be short andSlowly awaken to the sounds of the sprmg 
toward the Dome, your brothers and sisters. Truly, no man IS sweet, with a special prayer for peace.
chorus, 
And send forth tiny sprouts of green and While two perceptive red squirrels peak an island--unless he wants to be. Men form If you have any questions, suggestions, orfrom their wooden holes communitites because they need one would like to helpin any way, then call Mike 
yellow . 
And frown ... another. If this were not the case the con-Kelleher, Linas Sidrys, or Joe Billmeier.
In a conservative approval of the new hfe. 
The Queen of the camnm: l::~l'lc<: " t>rnurn ,..._,.,'1""\.,. ''1.-..,~ ..... ·' ..........l..l '-~---------!--.... --...) 

•
• 
-

Friday, April 28, 1972
the observer
8 

Hall Life Report asks $250,000 from Trustees 

i 
t 
•
• 
~ 
l 
t 
t 
l I 
•
• 
I 
I 
I 
~ 
f 
~ 
by Joe Powers 
In his presentation of the Hall Life Report to the Student Affairs Commission last Thursday, Bob Higgins, Hall Life Commissioner, brought before a committee of the Board of Trustees a series of proposals for dormitory im­provements which represented more than $250,000 in itemized requests. The requests -which range from the complete rewiring of Zahm and Breen-Phillips to a set of hand tools for student repairs and improvements in Lyons-will be reviewed by the Student Affairs Commission and will either be cut down or presented intact to the Board of Trustees at their May meeting. 
Higgins, in his speech before the Commission, stressed hall rewiring as the essential con­sideration. "The halls that have not been rewired cannot reasonably accomodate the electrical needs of today's students....An overload is a real hazard. A fire broke out in Dillon this year because of an overload." 
Higgins also asserted that priority be given to the older halls in allotting funds. "St. Ed­ward's ... has lighting and washroom facilities that are very likely the originals. Other halls, like Sorin, are also encountering these problems. This should be attended to first." 
Breen-Phillips, requesting funds to renovate their study rooms, recreation rooms, and washrooms in addition to funds for rewiring the hall, estimated that they would need $190,000 -over 75 percent of the total requested funds from all the halls -in order to finance the project. B·-P also requested the reduction of fourteen triples into double size rooms. 
Higgins explained that the money for hall improvements became available when the Trustees reworked the University budget. The money that was made available is to be divided three ways. A full-scale renovation is planned for La Fortune Center," Higgins noted. "A lot of the money will probably go toward the renovation of Badin and Walsh (the women's dorms next year), and the other halls will get the 
Observer Insight 
rest." In drawing up the Hall Life Report, Higgins was asked by the Trustees "to suggest ways of spending some quarter of a million dollars." 
Alumni Hall requested funds for the carpeting and panelling of an upper loft in the dorm, which they wished to convert into a study lounge. They also requested the financing of a permanent TV 
antennae, "to enable hall residents 
to reach Chicago stations," and the 
installation of three water coolers 
to combat the "luke-warm tem­
peratures" of the faucet water. 
Farley Hall submitted a plan to acquire and renovate the Biology Department's herbarium, which presently occupies one-half of the hall's usable basement space. They wished to convert it into a study and seminar room. 
Keenan's only request was the elimination of a debt incurred with the purchase of new carpet for its chapel. St. Edward's Hall proposed that, due to the lack of a basement meeting room, a curtain or screening be purchased for the area around the altar. The altar could then be closed off when the chapel is used for hall meetings. 
Most of the requests centered around renovation and im­provement of study rooms, ex­pansion of recreation facilities 


Higgins: rewiring the essential consideration within the halls, and maintenance 
improvements such as additional light fixtures (Grace), furniture and carpeting (Fisher and Howard), and better insulation and the re-plastering of walls (Sorin). 
Bite into Spaflada.juicy! 
One nip and you'll know why we call it juicy. Spaiiada is mellow red wine drenched with the flavor of juicy oranges. lemons and limes. Chilled. over ice. over and over again. Drink Gallo Spaiiada. Juicy. 
Cdltforn1a grape wtne and natural frutt flavors Gallo Vlrlt''Vards. Modestn. Cal 1torn1a 

Friday, April 28, 1972 the observer 
9 

Observer Insight: Survival in the '70's 
Do business students succeed? 
by Marlene Zloza 
A Notre Dame business degree may not be a golden key to a successful career, but the education and reputation of the Dome are appreciated by alumni and recruiters alike. 
According to Assistant Dean Vincent P. Raymond, most ND graduates have little trouble finding jobs. "There may not be as many job offers as in the past, but there are not too many ND alumni on the breadlines, either," he said. 
Dean Raymond does not con­sider "How to survive in the 70's?" a problem but rather a question of "What's down the road?" in the next few years. "I consider the outside world fortunate," con­tinued Raymond, "students see more competition, become more aware of the problems in the economy and are anxious to join the working worid." 
Notre Dame alumni, too, view 
the current job market as more 
competitive but far from a crisis. 
"I can see a change, but I don't 
feel business professions are the 
hardest hit, especially compared 
to engineering (the areospace 
industry)," offered Mr. Eugene 
Carrabine ('54 finance), an 
executive for the Gary-Hobart 
Water Corporation. "I think a 
Notre Dame degree meant a lot to 
someone on the outside when I 
graduated, it made a big im­
pression on employers and I would 
think it still means a lot," Mr. 
Carrabine addeo. 
Mr. Ernie Hoffman ('49, 
business), Manager of Original 
Equipment, Customer Services, Anderson Company, agreed that his ND education was satisfactory, but put more emphasis on practical experience. "I don't see the Notre Dame reputation and degree as the most important thing needed to guarantee a successful career," he stated. "The common sense, job experience and interest one has in their field are the principal fac­tors." 
Although he realizes that hiring 
is "more selective than before," 
Mr. Hoffman feels secure in his job 
because of the experience and 
knowledge he has built his career 
on. 
Would return When asked if they would come to ND again if they had it to do over, both men answered "yes" with no hesitation. Mr. Carrabine would have added "at least a masters or maybe a law degree," which he feels would have helped him advance his career. In con­trast, Mr. Hoffman thought he "probably would have gone into arts and letters, to get more of a background in English, history, etc." He would still have pursued a business career, but with a more liberal education. "I have 18 hours towards a masters but I dropped it because I feel just so much formal education is necessary, and I was more concerned with on-the-job training." Dean Raymond concurred that "beyond the very specialized 
degree areas, a specific degree is will come back as soon as possible. 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15 p.m. Sat. 
9:30 a.m. Sun. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. 
Vespers: 


Fr. Bob Griffin, c.s.c. Fr. James Buckley, c.s.c. Fr. Aidan Kavanagh, O.S.B. Fr. Tom Stella, c.s.c. 
4:30 -Our Lady's Chapel 
Willemin: 
NO is now known for its high academic standing in addition to its famous football teams. 
not usually important in most fields. The working world will absorb all talents and although some professions require a working knowledge in specifics, the main prerequisite is "an educated man." A student should major in something he enjoys and take the subjects that he feels most comfortable with." 
Raymond estimated that 40 per cent of the sophomores in business administration entered Notre Dame with other plans. "One of the main reasons for freshman year of studies is to help BS and engineering intents make a decision," he said. By the end of sophomore year most students are settled, but some still change to business during their junior year, added Raymond. 
Reputation a selling tool 
Probably the best authority on how the job market is affecting ND business students is Mr. Richard 
D. Willemin, Director of the Placement Bureau. 
"Notre Dame has been striving for a higher quality of education 
during  Fr.  Hesburgh's  term  as  
president,"  said  Mr.  Willemin,  
"and  this  is  reflected  in  the  

school's reputation. Whereas we used to be known primarily for our football teams and the 'Notre Dame man' enigma, we are now known for our excellent academic standing." 
After visiting Indiana U., Purdue, Michigan and other major schools around the country, recruiters admit that ND applicants are "some of the best, brightest students they have talked to," said Willemin. "They handle them­selves as intelligent gentlemen and ask well thought out questions." The best testimonial Willmein could 
give to the success of ND 
graduates is the fact that 
recruiters return year after year to 
hire more. 
Economics of the job market Regarding the economic recession, although some in­terviewers have cancelled out due to financial cutbacks (travel ex­penses, less hiring), they say they 

"They have both a loyalty to our school and confidence in the quality of our students," Willemin acknowledged. 
Comparing colleges, business administration draws the most recruiters to campus, next is engineering, then arts and letters and science. Of the 234 companies listed in the 1971-72 Placement Manual, 143 included BBA, MBA or both in their listing and 42 were interested in business stuents exclusively. 
Within the college, accounting majors are in greatest demand. "They are recruited very aggressively," claimed Willemin. "The accounting department is known far and wide as a strong academic department.'' 
In a brief study of 35 of the 90 + accounting seniors, it was found that they had received a total of 68 job offers, for an average starting salary of $10,929 as of April 25. The national average starting salary is $10,416. 
Equally balanced in order of recruiting success are 2. management, 3. marketing and sales, and 4. finance. Recruiting averages do not include graduates who continue their education. In 

Raymond: There are not too many NO alumni on the breadlines. 
Summer Storage is Coming! Watch for more details 
Anyone Interested in the Student Union 
1. fruit 2. cake 3. donut 
Concessions for next year contact 
Walt (services commission) at 7757 
the last four years about 46 percent of business seniors have gone to graduate school. 
Many disagree on the im­portance of an MBA to a job­seeker. 
MBA -l'ecession phenomena 
A January issue of the Journfll of College Placement called the MBA situation "the recession phenomenon." The Journal article claimed that appropriate positions 

.• PRtC£QlPR~CED~R;~EO
PRICED~ TO -0 )>HI' 
I. ' . SEll' SEll'
Jo 

SELL! . . -· · 
low Priced! 
..,,., ldoo• Moko ..""'Can. 
'72 KACS: 73 

The little Seiy European Car! 
MERCURY 


CAPRI 

72KACS·M Capri 2-dr. Sport Coupe 
COME SEE METRO AND ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL PURCHASE PLAN FOR COLLEGE GRADUATES 

are provided for the vast majority of graduates. "MBA's, on the whole, have proven themselves over the last decade to be worth the price and the trouble," the article asserted. 
Wille min, however, gave a different view of the situation. He felt that the MBA is suffering more than other business areas during the current employment recession. "There just seems to be 
(continued on page 12) 

Applications for Mardi Gras Charity Chest Funds submitted to · 
Charity Chest Funds Student Govt Office Box 639 Notre Dame, Indiana 
Deadline: May 1, 1972 Information : 7668 

... 
• 
Friday, April 28, 1972

10 
the observer 
Facts behind the CAP program 
. "Gifted" is defined as, "unusual candidate to have him admitted. unreasonable. 

by Mike Baum "More than a decade ago Notre 
Dame's College of Arts and Letters felt the need to develop ways to deal effectively with the needs of superior students." So begins the section "Committee on Academic 
Progress.: "Origin and Purpose" of the pamphlet "Opportunities for Superior Students". 
The Committee on Academic 
Progress  <CAPl  retains  the  
distinction of  being perhaps  the  
least  understood  program  on  

campus. The disquietude 
surrounding the Committee centers around the "elitism" suggested by the sentence quoted above, and two factors expressed by the explanatory pamphlet as, "through early registration, it attempts to ensure for its students access to the most desired courses and sections .... the Committee may obtain... a waiver of standard course requirements ... ". 
Elitism. Favouritism. "Their Secret Society", to quote one columnist. What and Why is the CAP anyway? 
The C.A.P. is directed by Dr. Leslie Martin, Asst. Prof. of English. According to him, the Committee functions as a special counseling service, within the College of Arts and Letters, for 
selected "gifted" students in 
particular, and anyone who walks l·n aski'ng for advice in general. Originally the students were selected entirely from recom­mendations by faculty members. Criteria for appointment, as ex­plained to the teachers, includes two factors: "1. Is the applicant 'gifted' in some remarkable or notable way? 2. Does the applicant appear to 'need' the Committee?" 
intellectual gifts "or "breadth of 
' .
interests accompanied by m­telligence adequate to relate different disciplines" or "un­
common personality com­plementary to intelligence" or "marked industriousness ac­companied by intellectual ability in a way likely to flourish under the attention of an advisor". 
"Need"  is  defined  as  an  
evaluation  wherein  the  teacher  
feels  that  the  interests  of  the  

"candidate" are best served by the personal approach taken by the CAP advisors. 
The only major change in the process is that a student may now nominate himself if he so desires. Students do this by submitting an "intellectual biography" detailing his "interests academic and otherwise" (quoting Dr. Martin, and what brought about these interests. 
Observer Insight 
According to Martin, "After this we put together a minimal statistical background." This ordinarily includes such things as College Board scores and current grade point average. Martin emphasizes that the G.P.A. is "probably the least significant 
factor" -often it is not even looked 
up. As witness, the lowst G.P.A. in the program was 1.75 and the mean roughly 3.2. Candidates are then interviewed by a two man committe, one from the 35 Arts and Letters faculty members on the committee, the other a graduating senior in the program. They submit a detailed evaluation of the candidate, and both must vote in favor of the 

Often a candidate will be rejected 
. .
simply because the Committee 
· ·
feels his particular program can. be adaquately handled by the standard machinery of the College. 
There are at present 120 students enrolled in the program. What for'? "Certain priveleges go with 
talent," to quote Martin, "I believe in ~n ~ristocrac~ of talent, as long as It IS not detrimental to others' interests. This program is not 
detrimental to anybody's in­terests." 
Martin suggests that the main point of the program is a psychological boost for the 
students involved -the help of a personal advisor and the service of having Form 50's filled out by the Committee assure the student that the University does take an in­terest in and encourage talent. "I see nothing wrong in encouraging talent," says Martin, "the talented are the chief purpose of the University's academic purpose." 
Most attractive of the "privileges" afforded is that which allows the students to pre-pre­register for checkmark courses through the program. This year it was handled by the Committee during Wednesday afternoon. 
Martin does not believe this seriously affects the changes of 
ofher students in registering. "In 
courses of high demand we do not 1'nterfere w1'th the student body," he commented. With such a course, he explained, the Com­mittee applys to the teacher in question to learn how many places he is willing to set aside for the program. According to Martin, this is usually 10 percent, about 4 places out of a class of 40, which Martin feels is hardly 
Buffalo Five are convicted alter 10hour deliberation 
by Cliff Wintrode 
Special to the Observer 
Buffalo, New York--U.S. District Court jury here returned last night a guilty verdict against all of the Buffalo on two counts of con­spiracy and intent to commit burglary, and voted an aquittal for all five on the charge of theft of army intelligence records. 
Jury foreman George Davis handed the court clerk the en­velope containing the verdict at 
10:25 pm last night after six and one-half hours of deliberation. The clerk showed the verdict to federal judge John Curtain and then read the findings to a hushed courtroom packed with over 100 supporters of the Buffalo. 
On trial were Maureen Considine. Charles Darst. Jeremiah Horrigan, Jim Martin. and Ann Masters. They were arrested in­side the old Buffalo Federal Building by FBI agents last August 21st. 
Vincent Doyle, co-council for the five, indicated to newsmen that he definitely had not ruled out the possibility of appeal. Curtain an­nounced that sentencing would be May 19th. 
When the first pronouncement of guilt was heard, many spectators began crying and tightly gripping persons next to them. Everyone was emotionally drained and exhausted at the end of the ten­
• hour wait for a verdict after Curtain's charge to the jury at 
12: 15 pm yesterday. 
He told the jury that it could not acquit the defendants because of good motives. This charge was damaging and extremely disap­pointing to the defendants. 
Closing statements were heard yesterday morning from prosecutor James Grable, each defendant, and Doyle. Everyone reiterated the position that he had taken when the trial started ten days ago. 
Grable said "no man is above the law" and that person whether he likes it or not is obliged to obey the law. He added that it is the right of a person to legally seek a change in laws that he disagrees with and to seek legal redress for wrongs he is suffering from. 

He also said if more people were allowed to choose according to their consciences what laws to obey and what laws to disobey anarchy would be the result. 
He said that the United States government 'was not on trial as the defendants alleged and he asked the jury to disregard any evidence presented of war crimes by America in Indo China. 
The Badin Vintage Cinema presents 

THE MARX 
.
In 


BROTHERS MONKEY BUSINESS 
Fri. & Sat. 7, 9, 11, 12:30 Sun. 2:20 Last Grasp ­Close Out Sale 
The exquisite Terrific Bargains 

TRISTANA 
a mere 75c (or subscription) Carroll Hall 
Sunday 2:00 & 8:00 
NOTICE The ad in yesterday's paper was incorrect The Overcoat was shown last week 
CAP members may also waive . . 
· t · but mto them," he said. "You may
course reqmremen s m some 't f th t' 
M ·t· h · t om1 courses rom e rou me
case~. a1 m, . owever, reJec s the Idea that this allows o.r. the only for courses that are harder, or 
I. " t f d ff It broader, and you have to have a
"e 1te. . an easy o.u rom .~. Icu, good reason."
d I k d t W
~or~!!:IS~I:.!:e~r!..!e~q~u~Ir..!:e!!m.!!e:!;n~s~.-~e~r!:e_..::::.___~---------,
CAc presents
El • d •
71.1

Vlra 1f.f a fUe an 
I


Aprz•[ 29 30 
-

E • • A d • •
ngzneerzng U ztorzum 8 J0 $J 00 
-p m . 

~======·~~~~~~~~~ii~=====--~,
r­

lu•ii!iiil~~~~~[!,l' 
': A
==·================ I 
MISHAWAKA AVI. AT 30TK.
1 

"THE NIFTIEST CHASE SEQUENCE SINCE 
SILENT flLM S !'~Paul D. Zimmerman Newsweek 
2othCentury·Fox presents 
THE FRENCH 






CONNECTION 
IN THE GREAT TRADITION OF AMERICAN THRILLERS. 
5 Academy Awards!! 
Best Film Editing, Best Screen Play, Best Director, Best Actor, Best Picture Phone 288 8488 for times & directions 





Friday, April 2s, 1972 the observer 
11 




Irish post doubleheader sweep 
by Stan Urankar Mark Schmitz and Schmidt led 
Indianapolis, Ind.-Mike Riddell off that stanza with singles. After probably summed it up best. "It Ken Rump popped out, La Rocca was a real team effort all the way. slammed a ground rule double The fielders gave us real good over the left field fence that scored support, and we just put it all Schmitz. Reschan followed with a together." base hit up the middle, bringing 
Schmidt and La~occa horne.

Notre Dame, indeed, looked like Ken Schuster and Howard Wood an entirely different team as they walked to load the bases, and ran roughshod over the hapless Roemer then lined a two-strikeButler Bulldogs in sweeping a pitch into right field that sentdoubleheader here yesterday Reschan and Schuster across theafternoon. Rich Eich and Riddell plate. Eich then belted his secondeach tossed four-hitters as the hit of the day, to send Wood racingIrish took a pair by scores of 15-4 horne, and cap the six-run out­
and 2-1. 
burst. 

The victories ended a four-game Schuster's fifth inning singleND losing streak and upped the M-ought two more runs in, and a team's record to 9-11. 
walk, an error, and doubles by 

The Irish offense broke loose for Reschan and Roemer accounted 
27 hits off Butler hurlers, with for the final three ND tallies, in the 
captain Joe LaRocca emerging as seventh. 
the day's standout. The senior first If Eich looked good in scattering 
baseman picked up seven hits in four base raps in the opener, 
nine trips to the plate, including Riddell looked even better in the 
five doubles, scored three runs and nightcap as he won his second 
drove on two. game this season. 
"The warm weather helped meLaRocca wasn't the only Irish­loosen up quicker, "The juniorman to feast on the Bulldogs' right-hander remarked. "And for apitching, though. Pete Schmidt change, the wind wasn't blowingcollected four hits (three for five in right at me to fool around with my the opener), Rob Reschan singled fast ball."

twice, doubled and knocked in four "It's the quickest the ball hasruns in the first game, and catcher moved for me this season," Riddell Bob Roemer likewise pushed four added. "I mixed my fast ball andruns across the plate, as the Irish curve well, and got a lot of helpput on their most potent offensive defensively."
showing of the year. Eich was never in serious Riddell had a no-hitter going for three and two-thirds innings before 
trouble while picking up his fourth cleanup man Torn Johnson lined a
triumph in five decisions. The single into left. The strong
junior southpaw retired 10 of the 
first 11 men he faced, though his fast ball was not up to par, as he struck out only one. 
ND jumped ahead in the opener with three third inning runs on doubles by Eich and LaRocca and 


OBSERVER
singles by Reschan and Dick Nussbaum. A walk, a sacrifice, and singles by Nussbaum and Schmidt brought 
SPORTS horne another marker in the fourth, but the Irish saved the real fireworks for the sixth frame. 
Stickmen to host Columbus Sunday 
by Andy Scantlebury 
The Notre Dame lacrosse team closes its horne season this Sunday, 
facing  a  defensive  minded  
Columbus lacrosse club  at  12:30  
behind Stepan Center.  

The Irish brought their record to 7-2 last Saturday as they stopped Val Washington and his Michigan State teammates, 9-4. It was the third straight win for the stickrnen and their sixth victory in their last seven starts. 
Team work was the name of the game against Michigan State, but the Irish will have to emphasize offense in Sunday's battle with Cournbus. Although injured most of the year. Columbus goalie Jay Lehr is one of the best in the Midwest. and he is slated to start against the Irish. 
Notre Dame will be without the services of attackrnan Ed Hoban, who injured his ankle against Michigan State. Columbus will have their hands full, however, trying to stop attackrnan B. J. Bingle who has been red hot in the last five contests. Bill Dacy will start in Hoban's spot but coach Rich O'Leary has indicated that he will be going . with several at­tackrnen for Sunday's contest. 
An interesting match up will be rniddie Jim Bingle guarding older brother Fred, a 1970 Notre Dame grad. The talented Columbus rniddie saw action against his two younger brothers last year when the Irish stopped Columbus in overtime, 9-8. 


l 
J 
I j 
· <>•u~;~;,m~; first baseman and captain Joe LaRocca led the Irish nine to a sweep of its doubleheader with Butler yesterday afternoon, banging out seven hits in nine at-bats. The Irish defeated the Bulldogs 15-4 and 2-1. 

throwing mainstay of the Irish lead in the second. A walk, Dan mound corps remained in control, Phelps' single and a muffed though, as evidenced by his 10 fielder's choice (shortstop John strikeouts and only two walks. Buis missed touching second base The Irish staked Riddell to a 1-o on a force play) loaded the sacks, 
ND golfers out to wzn• ''their'' tourney 
by Tom McKenney 
Some people say that the game of golf is the most frustrating of athletic pastimes to have been popularized since the Christians gave-up shallenging the lions. And, to be sure, there is some basis for this supposition. 
Even when a guy is lucky enough to shoot par he can't rejoice because, as every player knows, the truly perfect round of golf is nothing less than eighteen holes in one. So the dejected golfer replays the par round of golf in his sleep, trying desperately to discover where he could have shaved strokes off his total. That is the intrigue of golf--one never really does what he feels is his best. 
Though Notre Dame can't boast of ever having a golfer that could play that perfect 18, they can be proud of their golf teams' record over the past twenty-six years. In that period, under the coaching of Fr. Clarence Durbin, the Irish have suffered only one losing season. 
This weekend, Fr. Durbin and his young team will play host to 11 Midwestern clubs in the 36-hole Notre Dame Invitational Tour­nament. The Irish are the defen­ding champions but will face a stiff challenge for the tourney crown from Ball State and Cincinnati. Both clubs have defeated Notre Dame in previous meetings this year. 
This will be the first home ap­pearance for the Irish this spring and, after last weekend, the team is undoubteldy happy to be playing on friendly grounds. 
The Irish clubmen experienced difficulties last week even before they were 100 miles outside of South Bend.. Enroute to their engagement at the U. of Michigan, the team bus broke down and the Irish were forced to abandon it and rent cars to complete the trip. As a result of the delay and the car shuffle, the team arrived at Ann Arbor about two hours late and was unable to complete a full 
'practice round. 
Despite their brief workout, the Irish managed to finish fourth in the ten-team field. 
"I was most satisfied with the team's performance at Michigan," Fr. Durbin commented, ''Especially with their deter­mination. They never quit." 
Following the Michigan tour­nament, Notre Dame left for the Mid-American Conference In­vitational Tournament at the Houston Woods Country Club in Oxford, Ohio. A rainy and cold practice round and thirty degree temperatures added insult to the already hurting Irish road trip and the team was able to produce only a twelfth place finish in the 16­team event. 
then Wood stretched Bulldog ace Steve Clayton to a full count before coaxing out a walk to force Schuster in. 
Notre Dame picked up what proved to be the winning tally in the fifth. Schmidt, Rump and LaRocca all singled to load the bases, Reschan then forced Sch­midt at the plate, but two pitches later, a Clayton offering got away from catcher Mike Goodman, and Rump raced in with the winning marker. 
Butler rallied for a sixth inning run on Mike Watson's double and Chuck Hawkins' two-out single, but the Bulldogs weren't able to nick Riddell for the tying marker. 
ND is in Cincinnati today for a single game with the tough Bearcats. One of three regular relief pitchers, either junior Bill Lucas, or one of two freshman, 

-
Schmitz or Mike Swallow, is ex­pected to get the starting nod from coach Jake Kline. The five-game road trip will conclude Saturday as Jim Noe and Ed Hrabcsak are the probable starters in a twin bill with Xavier. 
The gutsy Irish will be looking to bounce back this weekend however. They'd like nothing better than to upset the favored teams and retain the title. 
Durbin feels strongly about the dedication of this team, and cites the fact that the squad has only two "half scholarships" and depends on walk-ons for the rest of the field. The players are apparently willing to sacrifice much time and effort to play golf. 
Thine/ads at Drake Relays 
Just how strongly Notre Dame hurdler Tom McMannon figures in the national picture may be determined this weekend. 
McMannon, a junior from Highland Heights, Ky., will battle a classy field that includes world record holder Rod Milburn of Southern Univeristy in the 120 yard high hurdles at the 63rd annaul Drake Relays in Des Moines Friday and Saturday. A total of 10 world record holders are scheduled to compete. 
The Irish hurdler won the Ohio St_ate R~lays title last Saturday With a mfty 13.7. The time equals the second best effort of his career while ranking only behind a 13.5 clocking last May in the Indiana Big State meet. 
McMannon, the 1972 NCAA Indoor champion, was third at Drake last year with a 13.8 effort. 
Milburn, the Drake winner last year in 13.5, is the current world record holder with a 13.0. The Southern University hurdler is ranked first at Drake this year with McMannon second in pre­meet listings. Godfrey Murray of Michigan, the Kansas Relays winner in 14.0, is also ranked high. 
Notre Dame weightman Elio Polselli is also ranked second in the discus with a 178-8 effort to his 
credit. Al Stable of Rice is rated No. 1 with a 191-0 mark. Polselli, 

-~ 
who won at Ohio State wihh a 165-7 throw in the cold and rank, was third at Drake last year. 
Irish coach Alex Wilson also indicated that the shuttle hurdle relay foursome of Pat Mullalley Mike and Tom· McMannon and Jack Gewe will enter the Drake competition. The foursome won at Ohio State with 58.7 times. 
Another Irish weightman, fresh­man shot putter Greg Cortina, will enter competition at ths Penn • Relays in Philadelphia. Cortina has an outdoor best of 59-41f2 but finished second at Ohio State with 58-6. Other Irish trackmen will travel to Muncie, Ind. for the Ball State Relays. 
Notre Dame's tennis team will attempt to extend its six match winning streak this weekend at the Huskie Invitational tourney on the campus of Northern Illinois in Dekalb. 
The Irish, boasting a 10-3 record, have already won three matches this week, defeating Big Ten rivals Northwestern and Iowa on the road Monday and Tuesday, then whitewashing Western Michigan Wednesday at the Courtney Tennis Center. 

Sophomore Brandon Walsh and freshman John Carrico have compiled the best records for the Irish thus far this season, winning 10 of their 13 singles matches. Walsh has seen action at both th number three and four positions while Carrico has played in the fifth and sixth slots. 
Friday, April 28, 1972

12 
the observer 
Notre Dame -St. Mary's Theatre presenh
Business majors finding 
SHOWBOAT 
A musical by Kern & Hammerstein II April 28, 29, May 4, 5, 6
changes in the job market 
8:30 pm sharp O'LtJughlin Auditorium 
(continued from page 9) 
loo much competition for the jobs that are available," he said, "and the $1,500-$2,500 higher starting salary for MBA's is another factor involved." 
Of the approximately 75 Notre Dame MBA candidates this year, it has been estimated that somewhere from 1/2 to two thirds have received definite job offers. The Placement Bureau has been notified of 8 of these offers, whose salary range averages $12,613, which is very near the national average. Some MBA students also choose teaching careers. 
Intl'grate Curriculum The prl:blem of successful recruiting and job planning is a serious one for many schools. Indiana U now offers an integrated business curriculum that includes courses in career planning and placement opportunities in the business world. They consider this a big help for students, who must compete with others from schools in more cosmopolitan areas. It is essentially a "how-to-do-it" ap­proach for finding jobs and keeping them. Notre Dame does not have such a program at the present time. Colleges are exploring cooperative programs, which allow students study on campus for one semester and then supplement classroom experience with on-the­job training. 
Won't work here Notre Dame, however, does not use this approach to education. 
"Our curriculum does not lend itself to it." said Willemin, "although it has been discussed and considered here. The ideal situation for that is a metropolitan area and a large school than can offer business requirements on a more flexible schedule. The Placement Director feels such a program "Could be a great drawing card, but it is not feasible at ND, where the business curriculum is based on a four year, less flexible arrangement." 
Dean Raymond also discussed the cooperative plan. "We know there would be merit in letting BBA students see a practical application of theories, but this would also take away from the personal development gained from campus living. It would deprive students of the 50 percent of their education that is learned out of the education in their ability to recruit newly graduated college man­power." A student sampling of 3,300 revealed that 50 percent would consider business a meaningful source of employment. 

This is an 8 percent reduction from 1961 and 1966 surveys. "It seems non-profit oriented employers are more often able to massage the 'social conscience' of young professionals." 
The College of Business sees no drastic change with the admission of women to ND, said Raymond, "mainly because they (women) are already in business classes here. The men treat them as equals in class, probably due to the ratio. They don't want to be considered 'gangbusters.' " 
The Assistant Dean predicted that for the first few years ND women graduates will "have an 
classroom, amongst their friends." advantage, and better op-
Raymond also questions in­dustry's gain from cooperative situations, especially during the economic recession. "It takes away full-time jobs and uses time and money ill training with no guarantee students will stay with the company after graduation," explaf'ned Raymond. 
Business Losing Ground 
According to a '71 edition of the .Journal of College Placement college graduates may be turning away from big business and in­dustry. One of the trends the magazine predicted in college recruiting during the '70's read, "business and industry will lose ground to government and portunities because companies are becoming aware of the qualified women available and they want to employ them." He sees "not as large a variety of positions at first, but a greater number of job offers. After about three years things should equal out more," Raymond concluded. 

Hoffman tried to evaluate the 
intangibles of a ND education in relation to career success. "It's the things you CLI't pin down that may influence decisions vou make 20 years from now on the job. A formal education in only a background, you must take the knowledge and common sense and apply it; that is the key to sue­cess." 
Tickets $2.50, $2 for students, ND-SMC faculty. 
staff. Information and Reservat ons at 284-4141, 284­4176 
BEST BANDS IN TOWN 
-Two Bands a night -Dancing 6 nights a week 
(closed Monday.) -No cover on Tues., Wed., Thurs. -Open till 2 a.m. 
"One stop entertainment center"· 

CocKtail Lounge Bowling Billiar.ds 

Sf.u/"'• J\lite C/u~ 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
616/683-4350 

FRANKIE'S 
EVERYDAY DINNER 
SPECIALS  
-Ocean Perch  $1.25  
-1 0 oz. Rib-Eye Steak  $1.50  
-V2 Breasted  Chicken  $1.50  

1
lncludes Tureen Soup, Salad, Bread, Butter and Coffee Planning a Party? Frankie's has Special Rates 
for Student P arti.es! 

-

Responsible  ovee  30  woman  
WANTED:  WANTED we will  do  typing  1960 Red VW 41.000 miles. Good transportation. $150. 2S9-4940.  Classified  Cottages on Lake Michigan Shore, for rent. GINTARAS RESORT,  grad student. To house sit mid· June through mid-August ' In el<change tor place to live during  
anytime for reasonable prices. Especially on short notice. Call Chip H~~o or Mike 6963.  196S Triumph. TR250, 6 cyl, 4-sp,. Conv ., Tonneau WW with radials. 4552 or 282-24S5.  Ads  15S60 Lake Shore Road, Pier. Tel. 616-469-329S.  Union  summer school. Local referen­ces. Call 312·324·0043 after 7 pm.  
Parts  and  accessories  for  lm·  
WILL  BUY:  working  STEREOS:  at  student  discount  ·­ ported  Cars.  Foreign  Car  Parts  
refrigerators,  couchs,  chests.  rates  almost  any  brand.  You  I  Two  six  bedroom  houses,  Co.  215  Dixieway North  
anything of value. Cooper 272-3004.  Call  Mrs.  can't afford not to call us if you're buying or thinking of it. Call Tom 1327 or 131S. Mateco Marketing.  CLASSIFIED AD DEADLINE IS 1:00PM  completely furnished, including utilities. available May 20 thru August. 234-9364.  (Roseland). 272-7187. Attention SMC!!!  
Need ride to Detroit this weekend  If  you're  not  gigging  your  
for  two.  Could leave aS early  as  SAVE  ON  RECORDING  TAPE!  SPECIAL NOTICE ! !  One and two bedroom apartments  dying... so be at the Boone's Farm  
Friday morning. Call Glen 1397 or AT 1715.  Cassette, Reel and S-Track; Ampex, BASF, Memorex, Sony or  'Found' ads of the Lost and Found section are published free of  available May. Utilities furnished 234-9364.  Festival. S:OO. 4-29-72, Basement Lounge.  Farley  
TDK. Call  Don 3729.  charge  by  the  Observer  as  a  
WANTED·  one  medium sized  public service.  limit is 10 words,  Rooms with Kitchen. Now or Fall.  RENTING  TRUCK:  take  any  
lrunk (to purchase cheaply). Call  CAMERA:  CANON  FTb  like  for three days.  Girls only. $45. also free summer  luggage  to  COLUMBUS  OHIO.  
Cliff S659.  new.Call 234-9765 after 5 pm $195.  rent tor painting house.  May 17, $15.  8245. 8237.  
RIDERS  WANTED:  to  Kent  AD RATES  FOR RENT: 1 bedroom apt near  Students: 7 day Caribbean sail mg  
State or  East on  Ohio  Turnpike.  1970  Triumph,GT6,  Dark  Blue,  N D, air conditioned. 287-1420.  package.  Beautiful  San  Juan,  
Ken 69S7.  'Friday, April 2S.  excellent  condition.  AM-FM  Words lda 2da 3da 4da .>da  Puerto  Rico.  Sail.  swim  surf.  
radio,  Pirrelli  Radials,  new  1-10  .65  . 95 1.15 1.35 1.55  NOTICE  snorkle, mountain and Mangrove  
transmission. Call John 232-4135.  11·15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40  trails.  deep  sea  fishing,  for­ 
16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95  Dear Graduate Student.  tresses,  islands,  Flamenco  
PIONEER SZ-440, stereo receiver with two 2-way BASS REFLEX speakers and BSR 610 automatic  21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15  What's your gripe. Ollie? Life? Money? See your GSU  Social  dancers and Steel bands. All expense paid exciting week of sailing & entertainment aboard a  
LOST AND FOUND Please return immediately: Handcart green handle, 2' x 3'  turntable with SHURE M93-E cartridge base and dustcover. 6 mos old. New $400, will sell $275. Call Jim or Ken 8633.  36-40 7.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95  GSU Party this Sat S pm, Carroll Hall Band. BYOA; BYOB; BYOC; BYOM and anything else.  PEARSON 26 Fiberglass sloop. ONLY $150 (plus air fare) Hurry! Only limited space, June lOth July 30th. Captain John Ladd, Box 5141, San Juan P.R. 00906or phone  
platform taken outside Hayes­Healey Mon. Rick Harrison, 3825 or 7054.  Half carat perfect diamond guaranteed, will sell for half of appraisal price. Please phone 272­ PERSONALS  BAGGAGE TRUCK to ALBANY, NY area. call Larry 1854'  725-0139 (AC S09l.  
LOST: Men's ring,C.3 parking lot. Reward. Call Mike 233-6272. FOR SALE  0615. Engagement rings, watches. Complete line Hallmark rings. Waltham watches. Tremendous  Hey Ders! Are you a turtle? You bet your sweet a .. I am.  Met Club baggage truck to Long loland only. Space limited to first 70 $5 depositers.Sign up at 432 Zahm from 4·2Sto 5·2. between 6-8  Beatles Festival II, Saturday 2 pm 2 am. Hoi y Cross Hall, inside and out. FREE Music, refresh­ments (BYO)and album.  
For Sale: FANTASTIC Boys Girls 20" beginner bicycle. Low mileage, very few dents. Call 272· 1SS5 after 6 pm.  savings. 313 Morrissey. 3575. ~-----------­'69 VW tug, light blue, 4-speed stick, excellent condition. $1195 firm. Bill Lavage 259·0225.  Thomas p. Hostility O:(, but Why? And why sorry? Why turn tables at South Dining Hall? Sorry too but not ticked off. mea culpa perhaps.  pm. Any questions call 1SS3. Will pay good price for Girl's bike in fair condition. Call John at 1292.  CONNECTICUT RESIDENTS! New Haven Club is sponsoring a baggage truck whic will stop in several cities... For info call Paul 7954 or Jess 3610.  
So you expected a blue movie! We  PHOTOGRAPHERS:  must  sell  BS, Feeb, JW2.  Grow Abroad this summer ... a  Would the following people please  
can only offer a year-long in· tellectual festival. The Review of Politics is having a sale of back issues and offprints and a sub­scription drive. library Lobby, April 27, 28 10·2 pm. 1971 issues $.75  new camera system: Honeywell Spotmatic, telezoom 'I•X MAG, etc. Call Jerry S849. 1967 Triumph TR4-A, convt., wire wheels; radial tires; dual exhaust 4S,OOO miles . 233-1912.  FOR RENT Furnished house. 1 story, 3-4 people. 272-6174 till noon, after 4:30. Available May 4, 1972. $140.00  month of carefree travel on your own in Europe ... plus four weeks of study in art. music, photography, drama or French. Growth through experience and instruction ... isn't that what it's all about? $695 from New York. Call Joe ~cDonough, campus  contact Tom Tollaksen at 3376: Kenneth Bartizal. John c. Chapleau, George Filipello, Philip J. Loebach, Peter T. Metzger, Ronald Nalepinski, Thomas Nevers, Raymond Sarnacki, Mark Zukaitis. Thank you.  
1968-70 issues $.50 Offprints $. 25, 3 for $.50 Subscription $4.25, Subscribe now. rates go up January 1st. 1965 Ford Fairlane, Excellent Condition. John Kloos, 6987.  Refrigerator -GE big freezer. Too big for campus. cheap S125. For Sale: Portable S-Track stereo tape player with AM-FM radio.  House for rent. Summer only. 2 blocks from N D. 3 to 5 bedrooms $175 mo. Call Julie 4549. House for Summer students . 4 bedroom house. completely turn ished 11 2 baths shower in  representi!tive, American In­ternational Academy. Phone 234­3465 or 283-7024. The Student Union will be closed from May 4 on. It will re-open September 6.  MCAT-DAT: Summerhomestudy review and testing program for the Medical-Dental Admission Tests. For information write: Graduate Studies Center, Box 386, New York, NY 10011.  
1970  CB  Honda.  Good  condition  good condition. Call  John 1642.  basement. washer & dryer, phone 232·7180.  
$550 firm. 283-1470.  




