On The Inside 
SLC Examined ... page 3 Baltic Studies ... page 2 




serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 7 Monday, September 18, 1972 

Hall presidents react to letter 
by Jim Ferry Observer Staff Reporter 

Hall presidents contacted this weekend reacted both favorably and with confusion to Butch Ward's letter which was presented to the Hall President's Council Tuesday night. 
Ward's letter was written at­tacking the "easily aroused cynicism" that he felt prevalent on campus. Ward, the President of Alumni Hall and the chairman of the Hall President's Council, wernt on to state that "We are a student body without a leader". 
While he , did not mention any specific course of action that would remedy this situation, he said that "We are left with only our hall governments to provide direction, and only in complete support of those governments can we hope to recapture self-respect and a glimpse of what true Christian community at Notre Dame could be". 
He ended his letter by asserting 

that "every hall president would 
attest to a real concern for this 
student body" and that "we have 
nothing more important than you". 
Several Hall Presidents were contacted in regards to this letter, and opinions expressed were ba­:sically in agreement with each ,other . Ronald Raja, Hall President of Fisher, felt that Ward was "sincere and honest in the letter", but he himself didn't know if everyone on campus felt that same way. Payja wernt on to say that the HPC wasn't really a "political body, so it couldn't do much about the situation men­tioned". 
The President of St. Edward's, Greg Thomas, felt that he couldn't comment on the letter because he had only heard it read to him once at the 1meeting He complained, as did several other Presidents, that he was supposed to have received a dittoed copy of the letter, but that it had not arrived yet. He said that he had "a lot of questions about the letter".$ 
Pat McLaughlin, Pangborn H.P., said that he couldn't go into specifices <no copy of the let­ter), but that he agreed with the whole tone of the letter. McLaughlin thought that "the 
H.P.C. should become more active in the affairs of the Student Body" and that most of the other H.P.s would agree with him. 


HPC chairman seeks re-evaluatio 

Butch Ward, Chairman of the Hall President's Council, petitions students to work through their Hall Government in the absence of a student body leader. 
September is traditionally a month filled with exuberence and en­thusiasm when viewed within the entire scope of a school year, but that vigorous spirit depends integrally upon a fleeting force so ob­viously missing from the Notre Dame campus this fall.That force ­direction. 
Such an orphaned state has been experienced by many groups in recent years. The Democratic party experienced the confusion that results from a lack of direction following the assassination of Robert Kennedy; the Kent State student body felt that same directionless despair following the murder of their compatriots. But the Democrats could blame their despair on the demented mind of an assasin, and the students at Kent State could hold an excitable police force in contempt for their confusion. Notre Dame students will undoubtedly search for some pitiful soul whom they will choose to martyr as the reason for their despair. 
We need look no farther than our own easily aroused cynicism. 
The cynic is the person who abandons positive action in favor of a 
destructive criticism that leaves all previous action fatally deserted, 
while camoflaging his destruction under a shallow wit. Frustrated by 
an incredibly "long" period of striving to achieve self-government 
within the halls without result, we have chosen now to laugh ourselves 
into this directionless abyss. 
It's not funny anymore. 
The fact is that we have spent precious few years in our endeavor to 
achieve recognition from the administration, and now, instead of 
continuing our efforts to achieve that recognition, we have laughed 
ourselves out of any chance of attaining that much needed respect. 
We are a student body without a leader.' 
The freshmen have already been advised by our esteemed king to 
approach some other more interested soul for assistence, for he is too 
busy. Per haps the remainder of the student body should realize that 
we, too, hold the same respected position in our leader's eyes. 
We are a student body without a leader; the pitiful fact is that we 
chose our own fate. 
The root of our present state lies in the destructive cynicism that has 
cultivated in the minds of so many. But where has that cynicism led 
us? Have we achieved self-government? Are we any more respected 
by the administration that holds the keys to that attainment of self­
government? Not only are we unrecognized, we are heckled. 
If we are to achieve·that realization of Christian community that 
must accompany our claims to self-government, we had better begin 
to take ourselves seriously, for if we do not, none of us can expect 
anyone else to afford us that same respect. I intend no animosity 
towards anyone in this epistle, for I wish to gain a real respect for 
every member of this Notre Dame Community. But I happen to be a 
person who has accepted a position that becomes progressively dif­
ficult as the present wave of cynicism increases. We are left with only 
our haU 'governments to provide direction, and only in complete 
support of those governments can we hope to recapture self-respect 
and a glimpse of what true Christian community at Notre Dame could 
be. I speak as a hall president, and I am confident that every hall 
president would attest to a real concern for this student body. Use us ­
we have nothing more important than you. 
Peace 
Butch Ward 
Chairman, Hall Presidents Council 

,Abell revielVs Seals & Crofts concert on page 5 
Monday, September 111, 1972
the observer 

warld 

briefs 
<C> 1972 New York Times 

Geneva -The Soviet Union has recently begun to supply weapons directl y to AI Fatah the parent organization of the Black September terrorist group, according to highly placed leftist sources. Arab and Israeli informants say that AI Fatah providees arms as well as money and manpower for Black September operations and it was after learning that Arab terrorists had been gathering in Southern Lebanon that the Israeli army made forays i nto lebanon this weekend. 
Washington -The world bank, the largest single dispenser of aid to poor conutries, reported that despite billions of dollars of foreign aid and "impressive" economic growth in poor nations," it is probably true that the world's burden of poverty is increasing rather than declining. 
New York --The federal governments $1.3 billion-a-year guaranteed student loan program, the largest single source of financial aid for the nation's college students is. ina state described typically as "un­certain," "confused" and sometimes "chaotic." Many of the 1.2 million students who normally would get the guaranteed loans are temporarily without sufficient funds at the return to the campuses this month as a result of misunderstandings of how the newly revised program is sup­posed to work. 
an campus taday 

3: 30--film, "kenneth clark civilization film series," 
engineering auditorium 7:00--meeting, the sophomore class, second floor Iafortune 7:30·-meeting, for seniors, pre-law society, library 
auditorium  
7: 30--duplicate bridge, students  and  faculty,  rathskellar,  
basement of Iafortune  
7: 30--meeting,  nd.smc  council  for  the  retarded,  118  
nieuwland science hall  

8:00--meeting, notre dame celtic society, international room, basement of Iafortune 

at nd-smc: 




Campus happenings 
Cinema '73 Patron Cards 

to join in a closer involvement in vancement in rank was effectivePre-Law society state-wide edections, elections September 1. 
which will have a definite bearing A member of the Notre Dame The Pre-Law Society will meet on the quality of life exprerienced faculty since July, 1970, Ordonio is with all interested Seniors tonight by each of us here at Notre Dame," a 12-year member of the Air Force 
stated Smith.
in the Library Auditorium at 7:30. and is classified as a senior Any underclassmen considering a navigator. He was the recipient of carreer in law should attend the the Distinguished Flying Cross for society's second meeting on Volunteers needed his part in an unarmed recon-
Friday, September 22 in the naissance mission in Viet Nam in Library Auditorium. 1967 where he also received fiv~ 
Dan Kogovsek, the Society's The ND-SMC Council for the Air Medals and the Air Force President, related that the Retarded is an active student Commendation Medal for Society's purpose "is to acquaint volunteer organization working distinguished setyice. its members with the legal· with Logan Center, which is Ordonio rece(ved a bachelor's profession, in order that they located just a few yards ~outh of degree in English at Rockhurst might make a more informed the campus, to serve the needs of College, Kansas City, in 1958 and a decision as to their future in the the retarded children and adults in master's degree at Marquette field of law." the South Bend Community. University, Milwaukee, in 1960. He 
The Pre-Law Society, according There will be a meeting for both and his wife are the parents of to Kogovsek, publishes a monthly old and new volunteers on Monday, three children. newsletter to keep its members Sept. 18th 7: 30 PM in room liS of 
Plus free magazine containing program notes
informed about relevant in­Nieuwland Science Hall. For 

formation dealing with law schools 
and the profession in general. 
Also, they sponsor symposia in 
which visiting attorneys and law a­
students discuss law and a career· 
in law. 
Kogovsek noted that three speakers have · . already· been retained for meetmgs this semester. They are Professor John Houck, Dean Thomas Sc­haffer of the Notre Dame Law School, and Dean Waddick. 
The other officers of the Pre;­
Law Society are Cindy King, Vice 
President for Publicity; Tom 
Chansky, Vice President in charge 
of newsletters; and Dennis Voegl, 
Secretary-Treasurer. 

Welsh 
The Notre Dame Students' Committee for the Election of Matt Welsh for Governor held an orgizational meeting Thursday night. 
At the meeting, emphasis was placed on Welsh's recorct. Matt Welsh, elected governor in 1960 under the Democratic banner, strengthened the Civil Rights Commission by putting priorities on creating empoloyment, housing, and equal opportunities for minorities in government and proivate business. It was noted that Indiana gained jobs at almost 11 times the previous rate, In­diana's total labor force increased as the unemployment rate dropped to 3.7 per cent, and highway construction and r~urfacing progressed at a recor<Fbreaking pace. 

Welsh's new programs include a realistic review of problems confronting Indiana, involving passage of the 18year old drinking age, reduction of the penalties concerning proivate use of marijuanha, and an improvement of roads which gave Indiana the seventh worst traffic fatality record in the nation last year. 
Anyone interested in helping send Matt Weslsh back to the statehouse should contact Ted Smith at 333 Sorin, 283-8575. "This committee work will provide an excellent opportunity for students 
The Observer .is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

further information or if unable to 

Baltic Studies
attend, please contacxt Jack Greeley (234-2334( OR John Stelma 0786). 
The Center for Baltic Studies recieived little response on Ac­tivities Night in LaFortune Student 
Capt. promoted Center and Center Director Ray Copulis blamed it on the blackout and the "catacombic location in 
The promotion of Capt. Franklin the Rathskellar." 
C. Ordonio, a member of the Air Copulis claims that manyForce Reserve Officer Training students are interested in the Corps at the University of Notre Center, but they couldn't find the Dame, to the rank of major has Center's booth. He said that been announced by headquarters students who are still interested officials in Washington. The ad-can reach him at 8730. 
p·re-Law Society Meeting 
Seniors 
Monday, September 18, 1972, 
Library Auditorium, 7:30 pm 
Juniors, Sophomores, Freshmen 
Friday, September 22 1972 
Library Auditorium, 7:30 pm 


FREE DRAWING 
SUN. SEPT. 24th 
No purchase Necessary Need Not Be Present To Win 
Register Now for • • • 
Deluxe 5Gal. Equipment Kit Brother Vineheart 5Gal. Kit Brother Vineheart 2Gal. Kit 
The Funnest Hobby You Ever Drank 
VISIT 


WINE-ART 
605 West McKinley (U.S. 20)
Mishawaka, Indiana ACROSS FROM TOWN & COUNTRY GATES 
Phone 259-4415 
"What .IS B & M?" 
Check Wednesday's Observer 

Cultural Arts Commission and The South Bend Art Center present 
MUSEUM 




WALLS 
Sept. 18 Picasso: War, Peace and Love Goya Sept. 25 Giotto and the Pre-renaissance Grete 
and Mycenae 
Oct. 2 The Art Conservator Kinetic Art in Paris Oct. 9 Le Corbusier The Greek Temple The Impressionist Oct. 16 The Cubist Epoch German-Dada 
EVERY MONDAY NIGHT FOR 5 WEEKS 
Shows at 8:00 and 10:00 pm Engineering Auditorium 
$1.50 for students and faculty $6.00 for all five nights 

Monday, September 18, 1972 
the observer 
3 


Db..rver lnsi.,tat 
Faculty assesses future of SLC 

by Don Ruane 

Student Life Council elections for the six student representztives will be held this Wednesday. This is the second part of a three part series presenting the outlook for the 1972­73 SLC from the point of view of student, faculty and ad­ministrative representatives who are new members, or are retur­ning as members from last year's council. Today, the faculty outlook. 
The SLC has been floundering about like a cramped swimmer since 1968 and this could be the. year it goes down for the third trime, unless cettain rescue ap­paratus is brought to the scene. 
Professor John Borkowski, chairman of psychology dept. may resign SLC seat. 

From the comments of four 
he hadn't discussed the SLC with faculty representatives the Ob­anyone because, "I wasn't actually server was able to contact during sure it was going to have any the weekend, the following con­meetings this year," due to the clusions are drawn: 1. The SLC confusion surrounding the aborted will become an inactive body as far spring election of student mem­as faculty and administrators are bers. concerned if the student Uhran is chairman of thP representatives do not work hard. 
2. The issues will rise spon­
taneously without much thought beforehand. 

Sophs plan meeting
3. 
Generally, members will be unwilling to spend much time researching the issues. 

4. 
If the council doesn't prove itself by digging into some issues with authority, it will no longer be viable. 


Prof. William Chapin, an ex­officio member as vice chairman of the Faculty Senate, places the success of the council upon the students,, for whom the council is intended. He described Wed­nesday's election as vefy im­portant, adding that "the only issues of importance will be raised by the students." 
The faculty and administration should respond, more than initiate, , according to Chapin's view, and they will alow the SLC to become active or inactive depending upon the students. 
According to Chapin this is so because the nonstudent members are with the University for a longer 

Professor Ronald Weber believes the SLC will have to prove itself this year. by Bob Quakenbush 
Observer Staff Reporter
period than the students, and consequently, they don't feel the An organization meeting for theissues as sensitively as the un­Class of '75 has been slated fordergraduates. 

\Mondayevening at 7 p.m. on•the second floor of the LaFortune
Spontaneous talk 

Student Center. Cancellation of a SophomoreProf. John Uhran, another ex­Faculty Senate's student affairs committee. 
Uhran's contention that issues are spontaneous is supported to some degree by the comments of the other four representatives. 
Prof. Ronald Weber. in his 
{Continued on page 6) 
to any class members and their parents, who may have been in­convenienced by this decision, while pointing out that letters are being prepared to inform the parents of the change. 
Declaring "we have learned the hard way that we cannot handle everything ourselves, "the 

Parents Weekend schedule for ( sophomore administrators hope to
officio memver from the Faculty 

October 28 prompted the , enlist the aid of their classmen on
Senate, is entering his first SLC 1
sophomore officers to announce Monday.
seat with optimism, and without 

the assembly for all interested . Topics planned for the agenda
any preconceived motions. He 

second year students.
leaves the council's success up to 

, In a joint statement issued to the 
the members and believes it very 

Observer, Dave Yates, president, 
good that people will be able to sit 

Greg Garrison, vice president, Art 
down and talk. 

G ilion, secretary, and Pete
When asked what they might 

Fleming, treasurer, desclosed that 
talk abvout this year, Uhran had 

many problems which had arisen
no specific ideas, and described 

over the summer have rendered
past SLC discussions as "spon­

the student-parent activity im­
taneous." 

possible, at least temporarily. The
Other than keeping an open mind 

officers expressed their apologies
ab out the whole thing, Uhran said 
*Student Billing Card 
The time is NOW! 
There is no standing in line! There is no extra charge! It can save you money! 
With a Student Billing Card, a dorm resident may make long dis­tance telephone calls with the privacy of the dorm room phone and get an individual bill once a month. 
And you can take advantage of Direct Distance Dialing . . . the eco­nomical way to call long distance, within Indiana or out of state. 
We'll mail you a Student Billing Card, if you'll call 234-5088. Or you can drop in at our Business Office at 307 South Main. Open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. 


@lnd~~Bell 
are freshmen elections, fund raising, social activities, Mardi Gras, and a myriad of others. 
"We need your help to make this year meanifngful and memorable. 
Please  insure  successs  by  at­ 
tending Monday  at  seven!",  the  
officers concluaed.  

For any further information, contact Art Gillon at phone number 1026. 

N 
0 
w
T 

R 
~ND 
E D 
SMC 

A 
M THEATRE 
E 
SEASON 1972 
s 
A 
N 
' 
T 
M 
A 
.R Y' 
s 
(An activity of the Cooperative Department of Speech and drama of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College) 
Five Pla.vs 
THE LION IN WINTER 
by James Goldm~tn Oct. 6, 7, 12, 13, 14 at 8:30pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 
Season Subscriptions 
SUMMER AND SMOKE 
by Tennessee Williams Nov. 10, 11, 16, 17, 18at8:30pm Washington Hall 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATE 
AFTER THE RAIN by John Bowen Feb. 16, 17, 22, 23, 24 at 8:30pm Washington Hall 
FIVE PLAYS $6.50 
THE MAGIC FLUTE by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (in association with SMC Music Dept.) April6, 7, 12, 13, 14at8:30 pm O'Laughlin Auditorium 
$2.00 OFF REGULAR PRICE 
YOU'RE A GOOD MAN, CHARLIE BROWN 
by Clark Gesner 
April 26, 27, 28, 29 
May 3, 4, 5, 6 at 8:30 pm 
April 28 and May S,at 2:30pm 
Little Theatre, Moreau Hall 

~............................................~~r..~n~J...............~ ...........................:

i :::~,., I'
Cia,._ 

E City tate Zip_ § 
~ Please send ,_student subscriptions at $6.50 ~ : rotals_ : ~ 1'1ndicaTe date choice for ~ach play ~ 
~ 1st Fri. 1st Sat. 2nd Thu. '2rld Fri. 2nd Sat. . ~ 
: .(Please choose alternate date Charlie Brown) : 
Enclose check ·r-or total . i: 
:amount due and a stamped-Mal! to: ~ 
;addressed envelope for return NDLSMC Theatre, Notre~·
li

:9.Ur~,4l'~~~..................... ,""" .~~!!'!.~:..~.'!~.~?na 4655& "__j 
1 

• 






THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Dan Thornton
John Abowd Editor-in-chief Business ManagerNews: 283-171s EditoriaI: 283-8661 Joe ButlerDon RuaneBusiness: 283-7471 Advertising Manager
Executive Editor 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Monday, September 18, 1972 


Last chance 
The Student Life Council is on its last leg. Students are justifiably reluctant to take the election of new student representatives seriously. In fact, given the current mess in student gover­nement, students are justifiably reluc­tant to take anything the king and his court does seriously. 
Still there are two very good reasons that the SLC should resume meeting this year First, Philip Faccenda, the ac­ting vice president of student affairs, is a very busy man. It is extremely possible that the recommendations of the body will be treated with the respect and concern they have always deserved because the new office of student affairs literally has nowhere else to go for legitimate student opinion. It is im­possible to demand constructive student input into university governance if the one council with the most visible op­portunity to provide that input renigs. 
Secondly, even though most students consider the major hall life questions (i.e. drinking and visitations) settled or at least not worth fighting over any more, student input into two important issues concerning the further conversion of Notre Dame into a fully coeducational institution is now critical. The questions are: When will the university establish its first ccrresidential dormitory and which hall will be converted next to a female residence. 
Refresher course 
It's been so long since the SLC did anything of note that many students may have forgotten how the body actually operates. The 24 seats are filled by eight students, faculty members and ad­ministrators, respectively. Two seats from each group are ex officio. The elective faculty and administrative seats are filled on two year terms so that three new members of each group are seated each year. All Rtudents seats are changed each year:-two via the SBP 
election and the remaining six via the election on Wednesday. 
UIIHIIIIBIIIIIIBIIIIIIIIIIIH-III.II•n••z•aiiii·-·IIIIIUIIUIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Letter . • • • 
Editor, 
I hesitate to dignify this paper by further appearing in it, but the damage done by it in last Friday's, 
S.L.C. article forces me to speak. The remark in question was of­fered to a member of the staff who had agreed not to print it and who then proceeded to put it in print. This was an unforgivable breach of promise and resulted in making me appear as if I were boldly being crude in print in order to gain attention-a grevious misrepresentation of such a refined individual as myself. 
The fact that no explanation has been given me as to why this happened indicates that it was the result of a conscious attempt to besmirch my flawless character. It once again shows1 the Observer 
Politically speaking, the vice president of student affairs, the university president and the Board of Trustees all have be-to power over any SLC decision. 
Recommendations 
In spite of the fact that the deck has been stacked against the SLC since its inception, The Observer believes that the council deserves one more chance to prove its worth. Towards that end we will endorse candidates for the Wednesday election. The format for the en­dorsements will be cha-nged from past years. Three categories will be used: recommended, acceptable and not ac­ceptable. , 
Candidates will be asked the same set of questions concerning the role of the SLC and their opinions on the issues mentioned above. The reasons for giving any candidate an endorsement will be noted in the context of the answers given to these questions. 
In addition, a one-hundred word statement from all candidates will be printed on the facing page. 
None of this will do much of anything unless the turnout on Wednesday is good. Otherwise the student body is defaulting by giving the administration permission to calling anything it pleases legitimate student input. It's not worth the risk. 
The Editorial Board 

Announcement 
Candidates for the SLC who wish to be interviewed by the Observer please contact the office by 5: 00 this afternoon. Any candidate who wishes to submit a 100 word statement for publication must bring the copy to the editorial board interview. All statements which exceed the limit will be cut at the last per­missible sentence. 
0... the SLC 
to be lacking in any sense of responsiblity, good taste or talent­an image which it can't seem to shed. It is a sad thing to see in a paper which was slowly trying to salvage its credibility after a low point druing the campus elections last spring. 
Disdainfully 
R. Calhoun Kersten 
.,..-.J2.<Q_ K~

L---------------------­
11 Hey look --freshman! 11 


Blu.,. Razzbury 
·--;rl Ed Ellis 
In a letter to Student Life Council members dated Aprilll, 1972, then chairman Dr. William Eagan stated, "All must be going well at Notre Dame. The Steering Committee has received nothing to place on the agenda since the February 24 meeting." 
With this as a footnote, the 1971-7iterm of the Student Life Council ended, not with a bang, or with a whimper or even with a good-sized squeak. It just clunked to a close. Nothing" very graceful or very poetic about it at all. 
And this week the SLC tools up for another grinding, clanking, groaning year. Some old faces, most notably Dr. Eagan's, will be missing. University Vice-President and General Counsel Philip J. Faccenda holds two seats now and will be looking for someplace to put one of them. And it's always good, clean fun to sit around and wonder what Bob Kersten's next grandstand play will be. 
All this given its proper weight , we will still probably see the corpse of the SLC by the end of this year. The fatality could come oy suicide; it may result from hardening of the arteries. Hopefully it will be the result of some sort of transtion from the over-sized, over-politicized, and underworked SLC to some other group that can hold the attention of top administrators at Notre Dame. 
It would be nice, though, for the SLC-or somebody, at least-to tell the boss-men who shuffle papers under the Golden Lady what students think about certain problems that come up this year. In short, it's quite possible that all will not ''be going well at Notre Dame.'' 
First, we have the question of a bar on. campus; something that will undoubtedly become a reality as soon as Indiana passes an eighteen­year drinking law. Acting Vice-President Faccenda has spoken to the Hall Presidents about this, and shows an awareness of the problems, as well as the benefits of such an establishment. It would be good, however , for an official, Universtiy body to reinforce the feelin of the HPC. 
Second, we have the question of the next women's dorm on campus. Students in Farley become noticeably upset when this subject is raised. Last year, even Rev. Thomas Blantz, C.S.C., the man who allegedly made the decision, could never justify to Badin Hall members the selection of their hall. The SLC is empowered in its bylaws to investigate and recommend halls for conversion to female usage. 
Third, we have the emotional questionof a co-residential hall. This, too, is subject to investigation by the SLC or its successor. 
Another seldom -noted process is the Search Committee for a new Vice-President for Student Affairs. With the Graduation of John Barkett, there is no student sitting on the committee. The SLC, or at least the student membership of the SLC, would be in a position to request student participation, especially since the student government appears entirely ignorant of the process. 
If the new constitution passes, there will be added responsibility for the students elected Wednesday. They will, in effect, be the student government, especially if Kersten quits, as he has been threatening to do for so long. 
And thus there are a few things which require some attention this year. Not many things, of course, except maybe for the pool started by one group of guys to guess the date of the first panty raid on Walsh. 
It would, however, be fortuitious were somebody --anybody-to tell Mr. Faccenda, Fr. Burtchaell, and the rest of the men in the gold­tipped ivory tower, that all is not well at the Dome. The Acting Vice­President seems to be a man of judgement, a man who will listen to other men of judgement. Let them come forth. 

the issue staff: 
Night Editor: Jim Roe Assistant Night Editor: Chris Sullivan Technical Assistants: Bill Heylman, Marin North Day Editor: Tom Bornholdt 


the editarial baard: 
Editor-in-Chief: John Abowd Executive Editor: Don Ruane News Editor: Jerry Lutkus Managing Editor: Joe Abell St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Campus Editor: Ann Therese Darin Features Editor: Rod Braye Editorial Editor: Fred Guiffrida Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Special Projects Editor: Anthony Abowd Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis 


Monday, September 18, 1972. the observer 
The Dne Last: Weekend 

s & c: glad to meetcha 
!I 

iasephabeH 

Last Friday night, I met two musicians 
singing as he smiles and laughs. Kinda like awhile to get the crowd going so early in the that utterly astounded me with their ex­
a mixture of Cat Stevens, Simon and Gar-show. It's gonna take something really good pertise, versatility and creativeness, to say 
_funkel and Rod Stewart's backup band (not . to follow that... nothing of their rapport ability. I can do Faces, the other one). Most curious. They seem to manage, though, by toning it 
little but report of my meeting as it hap­
Dash seems to be the lucky one to do all down with "Year of Sunday", a deceptivelypened. the talking--he tells us that they're gonna simple song, vaguely sounding of Cat do stuff from their new album, Summer Stevens, but with Yesian changes of 
Friday, September 15, 1972, 8: 10. Late Breeze. That figures: why else go on tour? motives. 
again! One of these times, I'm gonna learn Leading off is one called "Funny Little A quickie next, followed by a few country-the inner workings of the St. Mary's bus Man", a funny little tune whose melodic line oriented numbers, that I can't really getsystem well enough to be able to plan things reminds me of "Taste of Honey" and whose into--they don't seem as imaginative as the well enough tg be able to plan things right. 
overall tone brings back memories of early others. Hope I haven't missed too much ... Jethro Tull... What's this? A surprise: everybody
Wow, security guards at the door, sear­What's that? Somebody over there on the changes instruments: Bobby's bass for a ching blankets. Haven't seen that before. left is making some kind of noise. Nice flute, Jim's guitar for a tenor sax, and Luckily, they 're not slowing the crowd guys! Sure wish there was some way to Dash's d!andolin for electric piano. A jazz down, and they do seem to be finding keep the total asses out of happenings like number, "The Gate," that's definitely got to goodies under some of the blankets ... believe how everybody's making so much this... be the highlight of the show, has me en-
Ah, here's a good spot--close, yet not too noise. I wonder how he can put up with it. 
A few more gentle songs, and suddenly, ·thralled. I must say, this alone raises myclose. Hmmm. Seals and Crofts are sup­More goodies: "Mter the Goldrush", the stage explodes with music and respect for the group. Rarely is such ver­
posed to be a countryfolk group-at least "Gypsy Man", ( one of the better ones), movement! The crowd is delighted: it's satility seen in popular groups: country,that's what they told me. Wonder what "Keeping You on My Mind," and finally, 
square dance time! Wild dancings all rock, jazz, folk, all skillfully done. What they're like. Am I familiar with them? "Magic Spell," with Rich Donovan on around me, clapping, singing, footstomping more can be sa~d? Afraid not, only by reputation and the song drums. an incredible frenzy and it doesn't seem like "The Gate" 1s followed by a strangely"Year of Sunday". Other than that, this is General conclusion: not bad for a campus its gonna stop oh wow there they go into a~tractive tu~e with a vague latin b~at. It's my first experience, and right now, I'm a bit artist, especially considering the treatment another song boy he can play that fiddle and mce~-somethmg I could get really mto late puzzled. For a "quiet" country-folk group, he got from the crowd. A fairly professional yet another song and everything's bust loose at mght.., . .. ,
that's sure ~ hell of a lot of equipment up performance, partieularly since he only had and another I can't tell the difference bet-And the fmale, Bonaparte s there. This 'could prove interesting ... about 4-5 hours to get ready ... ween them and I don't think the crowd Retreat," again a song I find not as in­
Well, 8:20 and we're still listening to the Ah, intermission time--that totally wor­cares... teresting, again because of the country tone, canned stuff--so much for the "start on thless yet necessary time to do nothing but Whew! That's the first group I've seen in but well done. · ~ time" syndrome the Social Commission had wait... 
But not quite the encr This crowd fQr sure last year. They advertised Bonnie Koloc Some movement on stage now-wait a -won't let them go this e~sily, and they don't as special guest star (at least in the later minute--could be--but not yet: just an an­The encore song-well, there's nothing I ads; wonder what happened to the Pure nouncement. ... a fiddle and a saxaphone could really say about it-' I just enjoyed Prairie League?), so I guess that means borrowed from ND? More mysteries about more hoedown musiC"to leave the she'll come on first. Wonder where she is ... S&C... show with, and that was it.. 
Rich Donovan just cleared up up that Don't know what they opened with, but I Don' t think I'll go to their rap session in mystery --she got sick last night. Maybe sure did like it. They seem to harmonize Flanner; that'll be too crowded. Besides, next year, Bonnie. Instead, we've got a quite well, if a bit quietly; that bass alr~10st I've met them once tonight, and for me that campus guy, Kevin Dockrell. Hey! I've threatened to drown them out. A curwus once was enough-I'll have enought to 
heard of him. Hope he's as good as his group: an acoustic guitar in the hands of remember the way it is. reputation... , Jim Seals, a man whose looks seem to claim Sure hope the Student Union can do this Doesn,t waste any time, does he --right that he couldn't get away with playing again ... into Elton John's "Country Comfort". anything eise; a bass under the fingers'of 
I make no pretense to like everythingDoesn t sound bad at all, either . Too bad· Bobby Lichtig, a eurly-headed freak with Seals and Crofts played. There were manythe crowd doesn't feel like listening to him ... almost ghostly movements; and of all things I didn't. I do look forward to meeting He's into another song now; but I can't things, a mandolin of Dash Crofts', sweetly them again, though . 

Little Bit:~ Screen daanesbury by ,.arry trudeau 

art ferranti 
This weekly column is aimed at two types Vaughn, Stuart William, and Barbara Eden. of students (and some faculty); those who And for those who do absolutely nothing but avidly watch television and movies, and watch TV (even I pity them) there's ABC's those who watch occasionally for excape, a Tuesday movie of the week "No place to change of pace, or whatever. In the few Run" which_hs alJready had good reviews column inches alloted me I shall attempt to from the Bible of television, T.V. Guide. 
assess the coming weeks programs and And for those without a date, catch Steve movies in an effort to at least let the viewer McQueen and Faye Dunaway in "The know what he is in for. The emphasis will Thomas Crown Mfair" Saturday on 22 at primarily be on movies both on T.V. and on 8:00. It will pass the time . the screen in South Bend. But I cannot help Now for the baddies. Skip the Doris Day throw in some trivia every so often. schmaltz on 16 tonight, "With Six you got an 
Fortunately the T.V. season this year Eggroll". Besides, the Redskins play the gives me a great deal to review. Movies like Vikings at Minnesota on the ABC Monday "Z," "Laurence of Arabia," and "Patton" Night Football season opener. Also skip (l am interested in seeing how the ABC Wednesday's "Haunts of the Very Rich" as censors handle that one) are slated on one· it looks like another ghost stroy of no network alone. I will not be able to review distinguishable me-rit, and the trashy and the made-for-T.V. flicks for obvious reasons badly acted "Valley of the Dolls" on 22 nor the ABC Sunday night movie scheduled Friday at 8:00. Besides, you should be is made known. getting warmed up for the Northwestern 
Now, on to the reviews. With a fantastic game anyhow. opening the networks have last week thrown a few blockbusters at the viewer such as Next week I ani going to try and predictAround the World in Eighty Days "In the the shows that will not make it this year. Heat of the Night." and "Goldfinger." For those who are wondering where A sle~per"The Anderson Tapes," managed "Columbo" disappeared to, he is on Sun­to find its : way on the NBC schedule Uist days Chis first last night). For those who Monday and probably took high ratings still miss the Man from UNCLE , Robert 

....
since the ABC movie "The Odd Couple'" was Vaughn is back with a new half hour sh.ow at pre-empted due to the closing ceremonies of 9:30 on 22 Sunday nights. I do not know a the Olympics. thing about it except that it is one of those 
This week's movies are not as great as syndicated British shows and is called "The last week but a few deserve mention. For Protectors." Other trivial tidbits include action-western fans and those without any Roger Moore's being named the future exams on Friday, Channel 22 has The James Bond in the movie series replacing 
..
Professionals scheduled at 8:00 on Thur­Sean Connery as 007. Moore, for the sday. Basically, Burt Lancaster, Robert uneducated reading this article, played Ryan, and Claudia Cardinale wipe out Simon Templar on "The Saint" for many villain Jack Palance (a great bad-guy ever years and Lord Brett Sinclair on the short since "Shane" ( with bullets, bow and lived (and rightfully so) "Persuaders" with arrows, and dynamite. Lee Marvin got his Tony Curtis. basic training for "The Dirty Dozen" in this One final and sad note. William Boyd who 
.. ­one. rode his horse Topper as Hopalong Cassidy 
"The House of Usher" (Tues., Chan. 22, for 106 films from 1935 to 1953 died at the age 
10:30) although loosely based on Poe's of 77 last Wednesday. According to the classic tale still manages to catch the mbod Chicago Tribune, he refused to have any and come off halfway decently. Usher? pictures taken of him in his last years . since Vincent Price, of course. "The Woman he had changed so much and did not "want Hunter" is one of the new CBS Tuesday to tamper" with our memories. The legacy flicks and hence is unreliable. It looks of Hopalong Cassidy though will always be promising though since it features Robert r1emembered by the kids who watched him. 
j l 
~ 
A 
l 
j j j 
j j l I l I 
J 
•
J 
Monday, September 18,_ 1972
6 the observer 

~---_!!!.:~:::=:..::,:=..:...:....:::.:....liiiiiiiiiiiiiiii___;;;;;.;••;;..;M.;.;•••IIIIHMII-IMIHIIIIIIIIIIDHIII.IIIIIllllllllllllllllll{l!UU!!!I!llUWllUIIWIIIWIIWIIIWIIIII!C'III11--------··III··-·----~ ili! =
Faculty comment 
= 
~ 



on SLC future 
= 
§ 
(continued from page 3) second year as a member, said Sunday that if the SLC is going to remain, it will have to prove itself this year "by digging into some significant issues ... " He added that committee work will have to be improved. "It was pretty deficient last year." According to Weber, members 
I a 
were coming to the meetings without sufficient knowledge of the agenda items, thus becoming trapped in "parliamentary wrangling." 
Chapin, reflecting on past SLC 


meetings, found the discussions "skillfully bogged down," and Prof. John Borkowski, also an SLC 
Ii 
sophomore, believes that many members are not willing to devote time for research, including himself. i_-
Borkowski recently became acting chairman of the psychology = department and may resign his 
~ 
seat because of his time 
limitations. 
Revision Needed ~
i 



~£~r~::~~~o~~~~!~~f~~i~i1~nb~~ ~ 
Weber and Chapin would like to experiment with a smaller body. While Weber did not suggest any particular size, Chapin felt that only two or three representatives from each faction might be better. 
Chapin, a student solon as an undergraduate, has adopted "a wait and see" outlook saying he "has never been very strong towards bodies that just exist per se." 
He cites two reasons that could account for the SLC's existence. 
·=_a= 
First, it could be just a place for groups to have a voice and speak to each other, or secondly, it could be someplace to discuss important issues and where there is "enough position and authority to do something about them." 
Weber seems to agree with the last point. He said one "very noticeable" problem last year was that members felt that "important issues were being decided elsewhere," and that the SLC was not participating on a significant level. 
, "The SLC has to prove its viability or go out of business," Weber concludes. 
Borkowski states that his 
. "general optimism to the body to justify its self it in doubt," and that its composition and general pur­pose are the factors behind past SLC failures, and not a com-= munications problem. a 
Other related areas the SLC 5 might explore, accoridng to ~-Borkowski, incgude the 
relationship of the Vice President ==-= 
for Student Affairs office to the 
council; and, on the urging of li==­
student members, just who, what, 
or where is the power. 
"The SLC may well have §outlived its usefullness," a Borkowski concludes, "or may not === have even been an appropriate thing in the first place." ~ 
Tuesday: The Administration E 


~=~oeing lessons! 
The St. Joseph County Parks and = Recreation Department this week 5 has announced a program in a canoeing instruction to take place § on September 20, 28, and October 5. a 
The program will be held in the § Bendix Woods County Park and it a

Ll> 
is open to Notre Dame-St.Mary's a 
students. a 
..The insturuction will be done E by certified Red Cross instructors 5 and the emphasis will be placed on ~ safety and proper canoeing §5

... 
technizeues. 5 
All interested must call 287-9222 a (South Bend) or 654-7658 (New 5 Carlisle) to pre-register for the § 

~~~~r~:· e:::reli;Wert~~ ~ 
§ 
!======_===_ 
~= 
·~ 
a 
a 
= 


~ 
§ 
" 




ALL STYLES EXCEPT CAPTAINS CHAIR 20 PER CENT OFF WITH THE PRESENTATION OF THIS AD. ~ 
registrants. Jlulllllulllln•n•z•z•r••--II--UI--III___y__.,.TIIIMW•177711•1Y717111UFIWIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIWIIIII.._u.i 
,.. 

Monday, September 18, 1972 
the observer 
7 




ND "dress rehearsal'' pleases Ara 
by Vic Dorr  session, did draw encouragment  ternoon  (good for 56 yards), but  .  Moving from his own 48, he kept  
Notre Dame's Fighting Irish will  from his team's performance.  several_ of his  throws  were  · ..  the  offense  o~  the  groun~  and  
open  their  1972  season  next  "The first half pleased me," he  ·dropp.ed.  c~vered  t_he  fmal  yards  h1mself  
Saturday  against  the  Nor- said.  "'We showed improvement  Notre  Dame's  ground  game,  with a pair of runs.  
thwestern Wildcats, and the  two  and consistency."  though, had few such problems.  Parseghian  still  declined  to  
teams  spent  the  last  weekend  The scrimmage began with Tom  Following freshmen  Bob Zanot's  name either Clements or Brown  
before  their  annual  meeting  in  Clements at the helm  the num  -56-yard punt return, Clements took  as his starting quarterback.  I~lV  
different-but  at  the  same  time  ber one offense, and the six-foot  over at  the  41-yard  line  to  the  announce  that  later,"he  s,llid­ 
similar-ways.  sophomore put his  team  on  the  defensive  team  and  produced  a  though he did not indicate ex~Jetly  
Northwestern,  of course,  was  scoreboard almost immediately  touchdown two plays later.  The  when.  '  
opening their schedule with a  7-{)  with a 45-yard scoring toss to split  Irish  QB gained  16  yards  on  a  The second half of the  s rim- 
loss to the Michigan Wolverines.  end Willie Townsend. Clemellits hit  keeper, and then sophomore Eric  mage which saw a depart  from  
The Irish were running through the  two of six passes during the af- Penick blew around right end for  the d~ess rehearsal for  at  also  
last Saturday scrimmage before their game preparat~on week and Coach Ara Parseghian took ad- Musuraca and  25 yards and the score. An int~rception ~y defensive back Tim Rudmck gave  saw the number two 0 n~mber three offensive units. 0 their onlyscoring of the afternoon.  
vantage of the scrimmage by turning it into a full dress rehersal for the season opener.  Cl~ments good field position for his McGraW back third drive. Starting from its own 43-and sticking mainly to its  Bill Etter's three -yard run put the second offense on the scoreboard and sophomore Frank  
"We gave  our  preparation  a  ground  game-the  Irish  offense  AHocco  did  the  same  for  the  
jump," he  said.  . "We  ~a!!  the  Irish linebackers Jim Musuraca  scored in eight plays.  number threes when he pitched a  
number ones agamst a!lbcipated Northwestern forma~IOns and  and Pat McGraw, suspended last week for a training rules violation,  Penick opened the drive  _with  39-yard receiver  touchdown to senior Tom Wright. Allocco's  
plays  and  also  agamst  Nor- will be back in action today,  ac- a  20-yard scamper, and fullback  performance-which came against  
thwestern defenses .  Then we ran  cording to coach Ara Parseghian.  Andy Huff ran for 14 and then  the  number  one  defense  -drew  
th~ number twos against the same  After Saturday's scrimmage  picked up llmore on a  pass from  praise from Parseghian:  
umt."  Parseghian said that the pair, both  Clements.  Penick got the touch­ "Frank did a  fine job and has  
"We  went  on  what  we  knew  seniors, were "reinstated on strict  down from five yards out.  been coming along nicely,"  
about Northwestern from last  probation w\th penalties assessed  Another interception--this time  "He's been improving daily ...  
year, of course. It may have been of value, or it may have been of no  and were back on the squad "as of now"·  by up  linebacker Tim Sullivan-set the fourth score by the  -Eric Penick  Defensive end George Hayduk, a  
value at all," commented Ara  Musuraca was a regular on the  number  one  offense.  Sullivan  Junior Cliff Brown, who has been  member of the first-line  defense,  
ND's number one offensive and  1971 team logging 247 minutes of playing time, while McGraw saw  intercepted on Penick and  the 34, and then fullback John  competing with Clements for the number one quarterback job, took  rounded out scoring when  the afternoon's he scooped up a  
defensive units scored  a 34-{)win  only limited action last  season.- Cieszkowski moved the ball in for  over  after  Cieszkowski's  score,  fumble and rambled into the end­ 
during  the  mock-up  game,  and  This year prior  to  their suspen­ the tally. "Cisco," who splits time  and he led the final two drives of  zone from 30-yards out.  
Parseghian, while uncertain about  sions, both had been running with  with Huff, gained 10 of the final14  the half.  The Irish squad will move into its  
the resultsJim D  of  the scrimmageI d  the firRt tPIIm.  , yards--and three runs.  the  touchdown--on  Brown engineered a touchdown during his nrst possession.  normal game preparation week this afternoon.  

~aT~~;~~*"*~ 

***********'"*Wildcats aren't viciousl.!.l.i. column every Thursday l_::i.l:!·· 
The newspaper accounts of Michigan's 7-{) victory over Northwestern 
Saturday described the Big Ten opener for both clubs as a defensive battle. Which just goes to show you that you can't believe everything you read in the newspapers. 
Virtually all of the excitement in Michigan Stadium took place in the U. of M. student section where the undergrads, b4)red by Ute display of of­fensive ineptitude on the field, amused themselves by "passing up" numerous quantities of girls, boys and wine bottles. 
There was a great deal more passing in the stands than there was on the gridiron, where the Wildcats and Wolverines fought as two such beasts should, on the ground. In a throv. back, or, more properly, runback, to football of 1950s vintage, the two teams combined to throw just20passes in the game. 
Michigan's soph quarterback Dennis Franklin, the first black quarterback ever to start for the Wolverines, threw nine times, com­pleting four passes for 60 yards, including the game's only touchdown. Northwestern's Todd Somer, who ran the 'Cats offense in the first half, and Mitch Anderson, who directed the attack in the final two quarters, attempted llpasses, connecting on six for the grand total of 49yards. Two of Somers' aerials were intercepted, with one of the thefts setting up Michigan's touchdown. 
With both teams running almost all of the time, the game was played in only two hours and five minutes. A good thing, because, despite the close score, most of the 71,757 in attendance were beginning to doze in the warm afternoon sun. 
What excitement there was came late in the second quarter when linebacker Craig Mutch of Michigan picked off a Somers pass near midfield and returned it to the 'Cat 31. Five plays later, Franklin passed 21 yards to wide receiver Bo Rather for a touchdown. 
Notre Dame will open its 1972 season ne weekendnd against No ­rthwestern at Dyche Stadium in Evanston, Ill., and, while the Wildcats don't figure to be a pushover, it would be an upset if they could defeat the Irish. especially in view of their performance Saturday. 
With Michigan's secondary at less than full strength because of in­juries, Northwestern, boasting two fine pass catchers in tight end Steve Craig and wide receiver Jim Lash, figured to throw much more often than they did. 
Before the game, Wildcat· coach Alex Agase said, "In order to make your offense go, you need both running and passing. We won't come out 



firing because we've got to establish our running game. We'll have to ::::~'~:.:.:: _::::~··:::~.:~ probe to find out what wi11 work." U.'E'J 
Not much did work although it should be noted that Northwestern was ···· .c,, ·.·
·JrrsT JSC pER JSS 
not often t blessed 'lith good field position from which to operate. ;~~~: U I -. · • ~~~~ 
The Wildcats were able to gain just 129 yards in 41 rushing attempts. ;:;;: Or !;!; Soph fullback Jim Trimble, frequently the only setback in the 'Cats of-:~: :::: fensive formation, did most of the ball-carrying, picking up 103 yards in :::: by subscrl•ptl•on.· :::: 
20 rushes :;:: :::: Northw~stern gained almost all its rushing yardage up the middle as ~~~~ ~:~: the Wolverines kept fleet halfback Johnny Cooks bottled up inside. :::: 1 t $1 s·o I $3 00 b .1 :::: 
When the 'Cats did try to pass, they threw short, chiefly to their backs ;:;: SemeS er • • On CampUS • Y mal ;:;: and Craig. Lash did catch a couple of passes but both were for short :~:~ :~:~ 
yar~?~~-weren't consistent with our throwing , "Agase said afterwards. ~jlj 1 year • $2.7 5 On CampUS/ $6.00 by mail j~~~ "It was passing that got us in trouble in the first place." :;:; :::~ Defensively, Northwestern turned in a solideffort, yielding 259 yards, :::: Delivered to your door :::: which _prompted Agase to comment, "Our defense did an admirable job ~;~; ~:~: for bemg so new". :::: Se·"'d ,.o· 'I"Le Q·Lse.rve''" Box Q •'ot,•e Dam Ind. :::::
But Michigan doesn't have bruising power backs like Notre Dame's ;:;; :.&.& J. 1 • J. n 'JJ ;.a JYI .& -e, :;:;: John Cieszkowski or Andy Huff, nor do they have outside threats like Eric ;:;: :;;~ Penick or Greg Hill. Both Tom Clements and Cliff Brown, one of whom :::: :;:;· will start for the Irish next Saturday against Northwestern, appear to be :;:; Name :::: better passers than the Wolverines Franklin, and figure to be more :;:; ;:;: effective with the likes of Mike Creaney and Willie Townsend to throw to. :;:; ::;; In short, Notre Dame will present a much greater offensive threat to :::: AddreSS ~:: the 'Cats than Michigan. Defensively, if the Irish can shut down Nor-:;:: ~ thwestern's not overpowering ground game, the 'Cats will have real :;:; 1 trouble getting on the scoreboard. :::: .•~ It would seem that Northwestern's second game will be much more :;:: z· C d ~ exciting than its season opener. At leastfor Notre Dame fans. -~[!:::::::::::::;::: 1P 0 e :;:::::::::.-:::! 
.. 

• 

8 
the observer Monday, September 18, 1972 

= llllllllliDllllllllliDillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Arnold Air, Angel Flight volunteers = = 
= =
I NEWS STAFF i


AFROTC handJ;ng directory help 

~ ~ 
i MEETING i
by Tom Bornholdt Observer Staff Reporter 5 ~ 
Students belonging to the Arnold = = == 
Air Society and Angel Flight have 
been manning the directory 

! ! 
assistance phones for the univ-§ Tuesday 7:00 § versity since . Sep-= =
= = 
tember 4 and will continue to do so 

until the new rljrectories are = = 
distributed around October 8. i Fiesta Lounge ~ 
A student wtsnmg to contact any 
person living on the Notre Dame or 

Saint Mary's campuses can reach ~
directory assistance by dialing ~ La Fortune 
3222. Off-campus phone. numbers 
during slack hours.
person has had to put in about 4are not available. 
hours per week. None of the The Arnold Air Society is anDave Baird, a member of Ar­students nor Arnold Air Society organization of cadets in AFROTC = = 

nold Air, heads this project. He E 5
itself has been paid for this service who voluntarily perform ex­gets computer print outs from 
s 5
by the university. tracurricular services for the AirFather Shilts, Asst. Vice President Directory Assistance, is run Force, their university and local § (if you intend to write this §

for Student Activities. These printouts list both grad and un­every day from 10 am to 10 pm. community. Angel Flight is an § ~ 
dergrad students in alphabetical Starting this week, their will be organization of women who work 5 year you must attend) 5 • order with their room number and only l student manning the phones with Arnold Air. hall. He alsG gets lists of the hall rooms with the phone numbers. He 
WE NEED A DAy EDITOR

NEA backs McGovern I§ i ~ 
then gets volunteers from the 
Arnold Air society and Angel 

Flight to sit at the desks for hour FOR MONDAy
I I 
The Executive Committee of the 
shifts. There are 2 phones at the 
nation's largest individual­

ROTC building, when the first one = = 
member association of college ~ (paid position) ~ is busy, calls are automatically 
students, the Student National
diverted to the second. 
Education Association, today
When a request for a phone 
endorsed Sen. George McGovern 
number comes in, the student 
for the presidency, noting that his 
operator looks up the campus 

address from the computer sheets record "shows his commitment to iimmnnnnmmnmmnnnmnmnmnnmmmlmlnnnnnnnmnmmm111111111111111111111111111i our country's youths and theirand then finds the number of the concerns." This was the first time listed room. Ifcallers already know the organization, which this year isthe hall and room of the person composed largely of new voters,they wish to call, they can get their has backed a presidential can­phone numbers more promptly. 


didate.
Arnold Air has 32 members Thomas D. Creighton, president working the phones plus nine of the 80,000-member organization, angels. This has meant that each 
announced the endorsement of the McGovern-Shriver ticket by the Student NEA's 12 member Executive Committee at a new s



Mrs. Henry welcoDled 
conference in the Statler-Hilton Hotel At the same time, the 22­Mrs. Edward L. Henry, wife of year-old youth leader from Lin­Saint Mary's College new coln, Nebr., declared that "we arePresident, was officially welcomed appalled at the record of Richardto the campus Saturday with a Nixon during his first 40months in champagne reception in Stapleton the White House."
Hall Lounge given by ad­The leader of the Student NEA, 
ministration. faculty, faculty 
which is affiliated with the 1.2
wives, and staff. 
million member NationalJoining Mrs. Henry in the Education Association, laudedreceiving line were Sr. M. 

-McGovern for having "often stood 
Cathering Francis Ford, CSC, alone in his battles to represent our
chairman of the Board of Regents; Sr. M. Basil AnthonyO'Flynn, CSC, 
viewpoints." head of research and develop­ment; Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, Vice President for student af­Mrs. Henry, wife of SMC's new 
~,... £~0AC· 
fairs; Mrs. William A. Hickey, president wife of the Vice President for 
member. She will not teach any 
EUROPE and BACK
Academic Affairs; Mrs. Jason D. 
courses coexchange with Indiana 
an Incredible $190!
Lindower. Jr., wife of the Vice 
University, taking a course in
President for Fiscal Affaris; Mrs. 
adult education. She and her
Rosemary Doherty, Dean of 
call Clark for details
husband have nine children and
Freshmen; Sister M. Raphaelita 
283-8810
are residing in nearby Swanson
Whalen, CSC, Director of Ad­Heights.
missions; Miss Kathleen E. Mulaney, Dean of Student; and Miss Sue Welte, student body vice president. 
Sr. Alma Peter, coordinator of off-campus programs, was also to be included in the receiving line but left for Europe last week. Miss Jean Seymour, student body president, was out of town and unable to attend. 
Mrs. Henrf:., holds an MA in education and taQght at St. John's University, where her husband was also a faculty 

... 
(Piease print) 
Address----------------­

• Clty _____State_____Zip ____ 
llFFANY&CO. 
715 North Michigan Ave. Chicago, Illinois 60611 
L-----------.J 


Name ____ 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE WANTED 

Wanted: Part·lime legal secretaries to assist small law firm. General practice. Inquire: 
920 South Bend Avenue; 234·3216. Golf Clubs, 3 woods, 9 irons. Cheap. 283-6878. Steve. NEED 3 or 4 general admission 
tickets to either Pittsburgh or For Sale: Norelco Cassettes. Missouri game. Call Pat, 3277. Cheap. Guaranteed for life-Call 
1868 Paul. Need 2-3 general admission tix for 
Purdue -call 1946. For Sale: Typewriters your choice $25. 7735, Brother Ride needed to Ohio Northern (or Clarence. vicinity) in Ada Ohio any 
weekend; contact Rick by calling Sports Car at economy car prices 8917. Will pay. · 1971 Fiat 850 racer, vinyl hard­top, 35 M.P.G. excellent con­Need Purdue tix. Will pay your dilion. 232-8830. price. Call 7819, 7812, or 7471. 
F~r sale: damaged H.D. super­1 or 2 housemates needed 732 glide, m1nt 1970 Triumph 500, set Penna. Ave. Cheap, good ac· wilson staff clubs; call 233-4024 comodations with 2 seniors. 2 
after 5 p.m. bedroom, furnished-call Mark or 
George at 289-5940. 2 beds -mattress, box springs, head boards. $25 each or best Need 4 tickets for Missouri. Call 
offer. Call 272-2977. 287-6154 in p.m. 
Panasonic AM-FM stereo radio­Want 4 or 6 tickets for either cassette deck. Input for turn­Purdue or Missouri. Will pay. table, walnut cabinet and Call 255-4922 nights. speakers. $100. Smith -Corona manual typewriter, deluxe model, Wanted: Used lightweight $50 (originally $125.) VIVITAR bicycle. Call Marc 8864. 28mm F2.5 wide angle lens with Nikon mount, $40. 233-3581. 3 off-campus students seek 4th 
housemate. Private bedroom. 2 For Sale: Couches $10-30. Chairs blocks past Corby's. Call 232-3560. $3-7.50. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 1029 E. Miner. 
Free delivery to campus. Open Sunday. Needed: female roomate -close to campus. $55 month. 233-8622. NOTICES 
Help! I desperately need 1-4 gen. Old and new volunteers for the ad. tix for Purdue game. Name ND-SMC council for the retarded your price. Call Mike 6984. 
will meet (logan center) Monday Sept.18that7:30pm in Nieuwland Need Purdue tickets, General Science Hall. Further info call admission or student. Call Frank Jack (234-2334) 8825 or Ed 8463. 
2.50 per hour. If you are at least a Wanted: 3 housemates. Single Junior, have all A's in English, rooms. Grad students preferred. and would like to do part time Bruce 287-5237. editing (less than 10 hours a week) submit credentials (transcript, experience, etc.) & a phone number immediately to 
LOST AND FOUNDP.O. Box 77, Notre Dame. 
Found: Contact lens case in frontEurope and back for $190! How of bookstore. Call 8219.
can you afford to stay home? Call Clark, 283-8810. 
Found: High school ring at Rockne . Call Bill 1143.
Morrissey Loan Fund now open to N D students. Borrow up to $150. 
Found: keyring plus 4 keys at11:15 12:15 Monday thru Friday. 
Celtic Society bootti on activities
Basement of La Fortune. 
night. Call E. McCarthy 7069. 
·Seniors: Last chance for Year Brown wallet lost around StanfordBook Phote -9:30-2:00 -2C La Hall Sunday. Reward -Jim 8725.
Fortune Center. Call 7524. 
Lost: black leather handbag on September 5 on NO campus. Contact S. Fi.tzmyer; 4381. Reward. 
FOR RENT 
Rooms for rent. Cheap 233-1329. 
Nice room for rent. 1303 E. Wayne south. Jim 234-6519. 





