--~---~~-----­
On The Inside 
Strike and protest plans ... page two 
Tull review ... page five 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VI No. 112 Wednesday, April 19, 1972 

Wallace •

lD South Bend 
by Jerrv Lutkus News Editor 
Alabama Gov. George C. Wallace brought his campaign to South Bend last night and told a capacity crowd at the Morris Civic Auditorium that the average citizen has been denied a proper place in the American dream. 
"The government is too remote from the people. It has been taken over by intellectual snobbery and bureaucracy that'll tax you to death. The average man is fed up," he claimed. 
Wallace attacked the six Democrats who are running against him for the party's Presidential nomination and he expressed his indignation at not being invited to the recent Democratic fund-raising dinner in Detroit. 
others grab his views 
But the Alabama Governor grinned and noted that the Democrats had 3,000 people while his rally at the fairgrounds. the same night in Detroit drew nearly 10,000 people. 
Wallace claimed that the other candidates have all switched their views to the ones he held during the campaigns of 1964, and 1968. "In 1963, I told the government to get the welfare loafers off welfare and they called me a demagogue. Now, all tha candidates are yelling to get the welfare loafers off welfare." Wallace said. 
The Democratic candidate told the crowd that programs like welfare, foreign aid, and bad taxes are drawing the money out of the average citizens' pocket. 
He called for immediate tax reform and laughed at the candidates who have "suddenly" picked up the banner of tax reform. "The Senators running against me have a total of 109 years in the Senate. If they want tax reform, why didn't they do it already in the Seante?" 
Wallace stated that the tax reform will bring more money back to the people which will at the same time increase comsumer spending. The in­creased spending would them create more jobs. 
tax reforms 
The Alabama executive outlined his state's property tax structure and said that "it's time that \Ve stop penalizing people for owning property." 

George Wallace spoke to a full house at Morris Civic Auditorium last night. 
"The parasites in Washington" are another source of money being taken away from "the average citizen" according to Wallace. He traced Parkinson's Law which contends for every bureaucrat you must have two more bureaucrats to give him something to do. This is part of the money that he said he would shave away from executive expenses. 
The welfare structure also was attacked by presidential hopeful. "There's no reason for a workingman to work another day to pay for the welfare of someone who can work. Welfare is destroying the middle class." 
Wallace recommended assuming the welfare system employed in Alabama where all applicants are screened before they are given welfare doles. 
"The average man is fed up with these ultra­liberals who want to give away your money to these welfare loafers." 
Foreign aid is a complete disaster 'according to the Alabama governor. He claims that he sees no sense in giving away America's money to country's that oppose us, especially when our debt is greater than all the other countries' combined. 
He stated that there is now a conspiracy to kill policemen in this country. In the past year, he verified that 127 policemen were murdered. "It's a shame when we cannot walk in the shadow of the White House." 


'win or get out' 
Wallace attributed the problem of federal judges who issue edicts that free criminals and attackers ''before you even reach the hospital." 
He moved on to the question of the Vietnam war and stated that all of these candidates who are so opposed to the war originally signed the Gulf of Tonkin Bill that started the war. 
"I originally said, win the war and get out of there. In 1968, I said if we can't win the war, then get out. I want us out. I wish we were out last week, two weeks ago ... " 
He traced the problem of dissension in this country to the war, and claimed that now that we know we can't win let's get out before it splits the country. 
He did note, however, that in getting out we should get out alive and left the re!)ponsibility on the President to do what he should to get us out. 


good schooling 
~allace then called for good schooling for all chtldren. But he contended that this is a local, not federal issue and that it should be administered on a local, non-discriminatory fashion. 
He related the story of a group of black children in Alabama who are forced to ride over 100 miles a day to school, because of the bussing order. They leave before dawn and return after dark. 
"The bussing of little children is assinine and 
senseless."  
Wallace's  address was  marred  by  frequent  
heckling from . the balcony, but governor paid little attention to it.  the "  Alabama  


Faculty senate reviews manual changes 
Lonstderation of proposed faculty manual revisions was postponed for a week last night by the faculty senate, which was told that 68 per cent of their colleagues agreed in substance with the first faculty letter. 
After some groundrules for discussion were set and the revisions explained, the meeting was adjourned, and the floor was opened to discussion by non-senate members and senators. 
While the non-senate members raised minor objections about various points and wording, several senators raised strong protests. For example, Associate Professor Walter Nicorski claimed, "The amount of time for evaluation by the faculty is objectionable. Many of us have had this proposal for less than 24 hours." Others added. "We mustn't accept bits and pieces of the text to avoid the major issues," and, "We cannot accept steamrolling of issues. We will not be rubber stamped." 

room for criticism 
~hile Senate Chairman, Prof. Thomas Swartz prat~ed the committee for meeting its April first dealme, he added that "There will be much room for criticism later." and urged the proposal to be examined for its content. 
~ithin the report, the revision committee's ma.10r recommendations include the following: --inclusion of material in Article I, 'The 
Faculty and the University,' to clarify principles 
as well as practical and contractual con­
siderations of the role of the faculty and their 
relation to the University; 
--change in "time" principles regarding 
automatic granting of tenure <Article I, section 
:~ \. and principles of notification, <section 4); 
--inclusion of terms of office for faculty officers 
and clarification of procedures for faculty 
participation in the selection of officers in Article 
II. 'Members and Officers of the Faculty', (section :~ \. subsections passim: 


promotion process 
--changes in principles and procedures regarding appointment and promotion so as to improve the process of cooperation and mutual accountability of departmental committees and faculty officers. Article III, 'The Faculty and the Central Academic Structure of the University,' sections 1 and 2. 
--removal of the stipulation that faculty members must have tenure to serve on the College Councils or the Graduate Council; 
--inclusion of language to allow the College Councils, Graduate Council, and the Academic Council to provide for student membership on these bodies, Article III. sections 6 and 7; 
--restructuring of the Faculty Senate and Academic Council to improve efficiency and to insure greater cooperation between these two bodies, Article III, sections 6 and 7; 


facuity on Trustees 
--election of faculty members to the Board of Trustees, Article IV, The Faculty and the Board of Trustees, section 2; 
-~inclu_sions of deans and elected faculty on the Umverstty budget committee, Article V, section 
2. subsection a. Further proposed changes to the revisions should be made to the committee which is rhaired by Prof. James E. Robinson, by April25. The Senate is expected to meet again by May 1 to _ronstder the proposed revisions. The secretary of the Senate told the body that of 414 faculty members polled regarding the first faculty letter, which criticized lack of com­munication and cooperation between the faculty and administration, 68 per cent agreed in sub­stance. The secretary broke the figures down to agreement in substance by 66 per cent of assistant professors, 79 per cent of the associate professors. and 78 per cent of the instructors. Departmental breakdowns are not yeat
available. 60 per cent of the faculty returned the form. 

rr------------~·--~­
~ 2 the observer Wednesday. April 19, 1972 
~ 
r 
r
• 


world briefs 
(c) 1!172 New York Times 
Washington--Pentagon officials modified reports that a guided missile frigate might have been damaged by fire from a North Viet­namese patrol boat in the Gulf of Tonkin Monday night. A statement issued by the Defense Department said that the ship was damaged by an explosion whose cause was unknowu . 
. 
Washington--Democratic Presidential candidates escalated their attacks on the Nixon Administration's Vietnam policies in the wake of the bombing of Hanoi and Haiphong, but the rhetoric was reportedly had little effect on their audiences. On the campuses, however, protests against the war were rekindled. At Harvard, about 500 students ransacked the University's Center for International Mfairs. 
llarrisburg, Pa.--A consumer's guide to life insurance, issued by the state of Pennsylvania, showed that the cost of some basic polici(") was almost three times that of others providing the same coverage. The study, the first issued by a state government, gives statistics on 166 companies doing 95 per cent of the life insurance business in the country. 
llartford--A three-judge Federal Court declared unconstitutional Connecticut's laws against abortions. The two-to-one decision said that the state could not interfere with a woman's right to decide· whether or not she would bear a child. Abortion advocates said that the ruling would prevent the state from prohibiting abortions. 
on campus today 
10:30 --rules committee meeting, mock con vention, Iafortune amphitheatre. 
3:30 
--lecture, william campfield, the business professional as decision catalyst for solution of social problems, library auditorium. 

3:30 
--lecture william gass, metaphor and measurement. soph lit festival, carroll hall. 


4:30 meeting, ND-SMC students against the escalation of the war. Fiesta Lounge. LaFortune. 
6:00 ··sailing club meeting, 204 engineering. 
7:30 .. film, plaHorm committee, mock con­vention, Iafortune amphitheatre. 
8:30 ·· lecture, robert duncan, soph lit festival, library auditorium 
at notre dame-st. mary's 


Mock Convention Platform Committee meets 
By Sue Prendergast 
Despite the absence of 58 of its 82 members Jat night,the Democratic Mock Convention Platform Committee elected Rick Harrison of the Wyoming delegation, as chairman. 
Detailed work on the platform was postponed until the com­mittee's meeting at 7 tonight in the 
r
, 
LaFortune amphitheater. Temporary convention chair­
~ 
man Eric Andrus bfamed in-
r 
sufficient publicity and r organization for the poor turn-out. 
r 
Many of the state delegations have
I 
not yet selected committee 
I 
members. 
r "The platform is more im­portant than any other part of the convention. except maybe the presidential candidate we select," Andrus contended He hopes to give copies of the platform to Lawrence O'Brien. Democratic National Committee chairman; AI Lowenstein. chairman of Aml'ricans for Democratic Action; the press; convention guests; and any candidates who appear at the convention. 
"We can make the candidates aware of our positions," he declared. "Notre Dame is a moderate campus and it has a national constituency. What we say will be important," Andrus added. 
Harrison. a senior from Cum­berland. Md., singled out law and constitutionality as the most im­portant issues on the platform. "It's a new issue, but one which we must discuss now." 
"The credibility of our national legal system is being quickly corroded by government. The Democratic Party must address itself to law in a way counter to that of the Republican party ­which has not been all that healthy." continued the modern languages major. 
All four candidates for the 
chairman's  office  advocated  
\\riling  a  "strong,  meaningful  
platform."  

Tom Hubbard cautioned the committee against trying to please everyone by making "wishy­washv" statements. The 1968 Democratic National Platform says "absolutely nothing," the success of the convention "We District of Columbia delegate need the help of a lot of people; charged. "We've got to do better we're running out of time'' than that." The convention's main problem 

"More than the candidate we now is that not all of the state elect, the platform will be a delegations have met. Andru;:; statement of what we are thinking suggested that anyone interested at Notre Dame this year. To be in being the temporary chairman meaningful, it must address itself of a state delegation which has not in some detail to the burning issues yet met should contact him for of our time," declared Eric information. Zagrans of New York. The full conventiOn will discus., 
Juan Manigault of South the platform Tuesday afternoon, Carolina cited busing, tax reforms prior to O'Brien's appearance that and the Vietnam war as three of evening. Other convention the "most burning issues." He speakers include University also emphasized the need to "get President. Fr. Theodore M. the platform out on time if it is to Hesburgh, who will deliver the be effective." opening address on Monday mght; 
Andrus saw the cooperation of AI Lowenstein; and possibly all delegates as "vital" to the Hubert Humphrey 
r 
50 meet to plan ND-SMC war protest, strike
' 
' bv Larry Dailey 
I Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
r students met yesterday afternoon 
, 
r to discuss and plan week-long anti­war demonstrations culminating . d t t 'k ' th' F 'd
r m ~ stu en s n e" Is n ay, 
r Apnl 21, to protest _not only the 
r renewal. of th~ bombmg, but also 
~ the e~tire VIetnam cat.astropheand, m general, the Nixon ad­
~ 
r ministration,'~ protest leader Lincoln s.oldati stated. . A~~roximately 50 students met m I< Jesta Loung~ to plan the week-long demonstrati.ons. The protests began Monday mght ~hen several member~ of the a~tJ-war grou~ walk~d mt? the DI.ane W~koski rea~mg.takmg place m ~he Llbr~ry Aud1tonum,. dressed. m guenlla warfa.re outfits, carrymg placards and signs denouncmg the renewal
of the bombings.
"We didn't disrupt the reading " 
Soldati stated, "we simply made' a comment. We talked to Miss Wakoski later, and her only complaint was that she couldn't read one of the signs." 
Later Monday evening, the guerilla theatre group strolled in silt'nce throughout the Library, carrying cardboard tombstones and bombs, in addition to placad<> criticizing the war. 
OTIIEH PIWTEST EFFOHTS 
The SM(' student government is considering efforts to protest !he renewed bombing of Nurth Vietnam..lean Seymour, Student Hody President announced. 
Seymour asked that any ND or SMC student interested in organizing in reaction to u~·' bombings come to a meeting at 
2:30 this afternoon at the SMC Student Government office in U1e basement of Holy Cross. 
1he Observer rs publ1shed daily during the college semester er:cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second lass postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
"We wanted to let people know somebody was doing something about it, and much attention was given to us." stated Joe Schlosser, another one of the protest leaders. 
M . h t d
11

ore guen a t ea re an
picketing are expected about 5 PM today, after another meeting at PM on the second floor of
4 :30 
LaFortune Student Center. 
Starting this evening, several members of the protest group plan to begin a three-day fast in protest of the renewed bombings. 
In addition, booths will be set up on both campuses, enabling students sympathetic to the anti­
war cause topainttheir faces white ·• to make other people think about the war," Schlosser explained. Anti-bombing T-shirts and in­formational leaflets will also be 
printed and distributed throughout the rest of the Wl'ek ­
Friday Is planned as the culmination of the week-long demonstration with a day-long student strike. "The National Student Association has proposed Friday, April 21, as the date of a 
t' 'd t d t t 'k C I t
na Ionwi e .s u en s. n e: . o ga e and Amencan .um~~rs1bes. are already on stnke, explamed former SMC student Leade~,Kathy Barlow, "and Stanford IS also planning." 
Instead of attending classes, protest leaders suggested that willing members of the faculty 
teach "alternative cour­ses"focusing on the Vietnam catastrophe. However, faculty members have yet to be contacted. 
Another member of the protest group, Eric Andrus, attempted to reach University President f<'r. Theodore M He b gh terda 
· s u~ yes Y 
aft~rnoon to . ask him to speak Fnday agamst the renewed 

NOTICE 

All outstanding loans must be paid by Friday, April 21 Morrissey Loan Fund 
[I _____ ­



FRANKIE'S 
EVERYDAY DINNER 

SPECIALS  
-Ocean Perch  $1.25  
1 0 oz. Rib-Eye Steak  $1.50  
1 /2 Breasted  Chicken  $1.50  

Includes Tureen Soup, Salad, Bread, Butter and Coffee Planning a Party? Frankie's has Special Rates for Student Partie~! 
bombing. Strike leaders said they wee~, he explained that he •·was would try again late Ja~t night. not mterested:'. . . . 
Student Body President, R. Students w1shmg to JOin ~he Calhoun Kersten was reached pr?test should attend the meetmg Tuesday afternoon, but since the this afternoon or call any of the King had a history test later in the above protest leaders. 
JIM HIBSCHMA PONTIAC 
301 Lincolnway E. Mishawaka 
255-4771 

Hundreds of stereo records to choose from. You're sure to find whatever type of 
s mus1c you like 1n our large selection of Decca. Capitol, RCA. and other top-notch brands T dke advantage of these fabulous prices. 
Another Hit Record Spectacular 


Notre Dame Bookstore

( 
$4.98 to $5.98 11aiues wh'le they last 
) 

Wednesday, April 19, 1972 the observer 

Bite into Spafiada. 
Jo~~~~! ~ou 11 know why wed call it juicy. Spanada ·IS mellow re ~~ne drenched with the flavor of 'UICV oranges. lemons and limes. 
Chilled Over ice. Over _and over 
again Drink: Gallo Spanada. Juicy. 
Call for n1a qrape Wine dnd n 'ltural fruit flavors. Galin Vlnt>vnrcj s Mnrif''-11 r .Ji'fr,rrlld 

r 
, r r r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
l r 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER  
John Abowd  Jim Jendryk  
News: 283-1715  Editor-in-chief  Business Manager  
Editorial: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471  Don Ruane Executive Editor  Ann Druecker Advertising Manager  

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not t" be taken as editorial comment. 
Wednesday, April 19, 1972 
A Call for Change 
The Faculty Senate dropped a double pronged bomb last night. The results of the Steering Com­mittee's survey on faculty reaction to "The Future at Notre Dame" (published in The Observer on March 
15) showed 68 per cent supporting the letter "in substance" with 60 per cent returning the form. The Faculty Manual Committee announced tenative revisions in the manual calling for, among other changes: 
--revisions in the "time principles" for granting 
tenure, --restructuring of the Academic Council' --and the clincher: election of faculty members to 
the Board of Trustees. 
All the ramifications of the two announcements are not immediately apparent. Faculty members requested an extra week to consider the new manual which was not available until the beginning of this week. Still, one fact is immediately obvious from the night's proceedings and from the faculty response to the statement--there are fundamental disagreements with the structure of the University governance. 
Student Responsibility 
From a student viewpoint, the resolution of these disagreements should include extended political influence not only for faculty but for students as well. The new faculty manual formalizes the placement of students on the governing councils of the individual colleges. Ultimately, this is the place where students could have the most academic influence. (A fact demonstrated by the student sponsored greivance procedure the Arts and Letters College Council recently adopted) But the time is long overdue for student and faculty representation on the Board of Trustees. 
The task of making the university decision-making process more representative of the community cannot fall only on the shoulders of the faculty. Student Government should organize a parallel effort to place students on the Board of Trustees. And they should begin organizing it now. 
A Necessary Beginning 
Everyone realizes that student and faculty representation on the trustees is not a final solution to all the world's problems. However, the lack of this representation creates an atmosphere of distrust resulting from the "secret" nature of trustee meetings. If decisions of the trustees are well­considered, rational actions taken in the best interest of the university community, then, they have nothing to hide from either faculty or students. If not, all the greater reason to increase the information sources from which the body makes its decisions. 
But none of this will become reality unless a group of students takes on the organizational respon­sibilities. That's what a Student Government is for. And that's where the action should begin. 
John Abowd 

Night Editor: Anthony Abowd Ass't Night Editors: Art Esposito, george lund Layout: Nic Catramboner Headlines: Chris Sullivan Headliner: Marty Miller Night Controller: John Brady 
THE OBSERVER 
STAFF: 
Sports Night Editor: Jim Donaldson Pictureman: Bob Hughes Typists: Mark Neiderkorn, Lucy Rodarte, Pat Kenney, Jim Flannigan, Dennie 
Anastasoff, Uave Barry Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Rod Braye SMC Editor: Maria Gallaqher 
Editorial Page Editor: Jim McDermott Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 


GALLANT GOOFUS 
~hen Gallant (ind5 biiS oF bone, 3r-is11e.,. c.(ump.s of hair. carpe-t tacks, rnerC.UrJ ~tc;-in his Jinin..9 hall6airesburje.r, he SGJa(tow.5 itot' rema'k::s it c..Jith hs spooni ooafus p(ays spitfire tJith i-t. 
f0 rei9 n 0 ffairS UIJilllllllllliUJUUIUJJUIIIIIJIIUlllllllllllllllllliUIQIIml 
Loser take nothing 
mumum1uuuunnuumnmnmnnnnnnum11n C. L. SuIzberger 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

Paris, April 18 --The Vietnam campaign has now attained a "go for broke" aspect perhaps never before reached, not even during the 1968 Communist TET offensive with its enormous losses, quantitative on Hanoi's side but qualitative on our own, headed by President Johnson's scalp. 
The last of 12 North Vietnamese combat-ready divisions, now marching southward, is expected to cross the DMZ and to appear in the battle zone somewhere between Quangtri and Hue within days. This leaves only two untrained Communist units to defend the People's Republic. All others have been committed in the South. 
If this tremendous gamble fails, Hanoi and its Vietcong allies have only two alternatives; they can seek the least unfavorable peace terms; or they can lick their wounds, retreating northward, as they did after the TET assault, to prepare another attack some three or four years hence. 
The latter choice seems more difficult than ever for the little Asian Neo-Sparta. There has been evidence of a recent argument between Young "Economists" and an older faction of ideologues and military leaders in Hanoi's politburo. To date, the latter "Hawk" group has maintained a majority, but this could change. The youth minority wants to slow down the war and concentrate on rebuilding North Vietnam. 
The present offensive has two focal points but one goal. The points are the northern "I" corps area where Hanoi's regulars are attacking across the DMZ, relying on a short line of supply and the southerly drive toward Anloc, near Saigon, where the Vietcong is more directly involved. 
A maximum success would be to smash the Saigon army and break South Vietnamese morale, forcing the Nixon administration in Washington to accept settlement terms before the U.S. elections that it would not be prepared to take if it regains office. 
The minimum sought is capture of a provincial capital and surrounding area so the Vietcong could proclaim a "liberated" region with its own "government" and demand negotiations on a new basis recognizing such a situation. 
But even if that minimum goal is initially achieved, it would be ex­ceedingly difficult for the Communists to hold and administer such an area. And, should Washington accept a static armistice, it might be unable to impose this on Saigon. 
The Communist forces want Hue, former Imperial capital, as a seat for their regime, even if they can't disintegrate President Thieu's defenses. They would probably accept Quangtri as a poor substitute. But they have not yet achieved either and are several days behind their known schedule. 
Madame Binh, the Vietcong Foreign Minister, returned to Paris after a seven-month absence from negotiations here, ready toproclaim a "free" South Vietnam regime. But the day before her return the United States broke off negotiations. Since then both sides have been bickering about how, when and why they should or should not recommence. 
If, from Hanoi's viewpoint, all chips have been piled on the bloody table, the American risk is almost comparable. Initial reactions from Moscow and Peking have been relatively restrained, but that is no sure guide to the future. Russia wants a Nixon summit meeting; at what price? Itwishes to reassure peace in the West while it faces up to China. However, if it can split Europe away from Washington , it might reckon the objective had been doubly attained. 
Likewise, there seems to be a conviction in Washington that any risk of deteriorating U.S.-Soviet relations will be offset by improved relations with China --and vice versa. Following diminished Americanpresuge after Soviet-backed Indian forces triumphed over U.S.-and China­backed Pakistan forces in South Asia, there is evidently a desire to refurbish the U.S. image of resolution and toughness. Nixon wants to underscore in Indochina the threat to his Nixon doctrine: Uncle Sam helps those who help themselves. 
All the greatest powers are involved in the Vietnam proxy war: America directly, Russia indirectly, China inferentially. Each could lose or gain massively. President Nixon even stakes his political head. But for the Vietnamese, North and South, the risk is far more immense. It is ultimately a matter of existence for their respective regimes. 
Whether Washington should bet so so much on cards being played by others is arguable. Perhaps for the first time since the massive U.S. involvement in Vietnam began --certainly for the first time since 1968 ­the stakes transcend the value of the game itself: winner take all; loser take nothing. But the implications of victory or defeat are global. 
~------~----~ ------­
---------------~--------------, 
I
Wednesday, April 19, 1972 the observer 5 I 
j


iethro tu II: mad dogs! mad dogs! l I 
joseph abel/ 

l
That was one hell of a show! 
t
But maybe that's summing things up too 
can keep that flute intact alter stroking, soon, and besides, it doesn't tell you too 
flipping, spinning and even throwing it 
~ 
much. Okay, I'll go into a little more detail around stage like he did. Casting thun­and begin by rephrasing that: derbolts of lyrics to the crowd with his Jethro Tull does not put on a concert; wildly gesturing hands, he shook his lion's 
1
Jethro Tull conducts a total show, complete mane of hair insanely throughout the show, with actors, single-line jokes, clowns, as if some demon was inside, eating his costumes and props. nervous system up. 
And most prominently, a ringleader: Mad As for the rest of the group, lead guitarist Dog Ian Anderson, prancing and parading Martin Barre remained for the most part a across the stage, swinging his flute like a quiet little musicmaker in the corner drum major, and leading his pack of equally (though you sure wouldn't know it if you mad dogs. couldn't see him --the sensation of pure 
But again, I'm getting ahead of myself. power was evident during the entire set, First there was something called Wild and was emphasized in his solo in the en­Turkey. Itwas refreshing to see a group that 
core), while bassist Jeffrey Hammond­makes no bones about what they're doing. Hammond, looking very dapper in his Lead singer-group leader Gary Pickford­goatee, smuggly belted out the firm foun­Hopkins began the set by telling the dation for Anderson's incredibly long scaler audience of over 6800 that "we're here to h p flute runs. Keyboard man John Evans went warm you up for Tull." And warm-up they quite insane during his stint at the organ, did. 0 something that became apparent when he 
The first piece was more than politely t later moved to electric piano and was last 
0

received, and by the second the group had seen laughing hysterically over the keys. the crowd in its grip. A hard driving beat 5 Drummer Barrimore Barlow, while not as coupled with a vague splattering of Tull flashy as Turkey's Jeff Jones. was quite influence (which isn't surprising; bassist b consistent with the general insanity onstage Glenn Cormick used to be part of Tull) y with his hard (and soft) pounding of skins provided the foundation for some very well and brass. 
_j

done vibes. The oldie songs were there, too; mostly 
A curious collection of various and sundry material from Aqualung. But that was to be personalities. ranging from the highly m expected; after all, that's the work most personable Pickford-Hopkins to a very quiet people are familiar with. So, raising his 
H

lead guitarist John Platmore to the great finger into the air like Moses by the library, 
u

hot dog drummer Jeffrey Jones. Cormick Anderson led Tull through a foot-stomping 
n

played unobtrusively in some corner, while "Cross-eyed Mary," and was joined by the second guitarist Lewis looked like the Mad t audience in singing it. Onward to Hatter and basked in the dancing spotlights "Aqualung" and the crowd was at a fever­playing over Pickford-Hopkins. pitch, and was dropped as Tull suddenly 
The best of the five or six songs had to be said goodnight. the Jess-driving "Fox". Part of their After an enthusiastic reception of warm-up But the end was still a ways off. Returning recently released first album (Reprise), band Wild Turkey (left), Jethro Tull's Jan after less than two minutes, Tull once again this piece brought out some excellent guitar Anderson fluted, pranced and "Fagined" captured their audience with their magic work and nice melodies. In a little harder his way through the new Tull LP, Thick as a "Wind-Up" that faded in and out of other, vein was the final work, "Traffic." A syn­Brick. earlier Tull favorites. But favorite or not, thesis of Black Sabbath in bass guitar, Deep the songs kept everyone in the Convo Purple in vocals and Iron Butterfly in drum moving through guitar and piano solos, then solos, this song brought the crowd to its feet through the very strong "Locomotive for a standing ovation. something rarely notes to produce a typically Tull kind of tainment is concerned. And all of it is Breath," and back to the soft, gentle end given to a warm-up band. excitement that drove the audience to a wrapped up in the mesmerizing music of notes of "Wind-Up." And with that, they 
Then came Tull. frenzy. Thick as a Brick, with Ian Anderson and once again donned their trenchcoats and And a one-hour song. A brief break in the momentum occured group embellishments. Some tape recor­amid cheers and a standing ovation, left. Complying with the rumors spread before while Anderson received a telephone call on dings were also played over the speaker The only real complaints about the show 
the concert, Tull did indeed play their new stage. After listening for a few seconds, he system (a massive mountain range deal with, as usual, the pure power involved album Thick as a Brick. And they played it announced to the crowd that one Mike surrounding the stage, incidentally), in the volume. Quite a few times the lead straight through. Nelson was wanted. "There's a fish on the recordings from Thick of sounds and in­guitar drowned out Anderson's softer notes 
Coming out from backstage in long line," he declared. The group went on with struments not available onstage. But so and organ notes tended to screech a bit. trenchcoats, the group members Ian An­the song while a scuba-outfitted man took excellent was the sound equipment that few Anderson's flute came over generally quite derson. Martin Barre, John Evans, Jeffrey the call. people in the audience knew it was a tape. well and Evans' piano work was nothing Hammond-Hammond, and Barrimore These were the kinds of things that went Needless to say, the entire show could be short of fantastic. Barre's guitar sounded Barlow skipped the usual introduction, on onstage last night. Totally strange, summed up in two words: Ian Anderson. fuzzy at times, and the equal fuzziness of produced a coatrack, shucked the coats and totally unexpected, and having-nothing-to­Previously called the "Mad Fagin" of rock, Hammond-Hammond's bass didn't really went to work amidst an already enthusiastic do-with-the-music kind of things. Later, he earned his title last night by putting on a help the dischordant effect any. But these standing ovation. another break was taken to present a Tull performance that rivaled that of Ron Moody adverse effects did little or nothing to slow 
Beginning the eventually 60-minute set version of the 6:00 News, describing such in the movie-musical Oliver! Sheathed in a down the frenetic pace that carried the with acoustic guitar, Anderson led his group earthshattering events as missing Non­Fagin waistcoat, he exhibited all the finesse entire show. through a fairly accuarate beginning of Rabbits and pornographic "wholesalers". and the smooth, sophisticated manner of Anyone who was there knows what it was Thick. But once they hit the start of the Never mind what it all means; that's not the Fagin, whether he was calmly and like. Anyone who missed it missed a damn second motive, the band exploded. Heavy important part. What is important is that assuredly directing the group or leaping and good and damn worthwhile time. And like I waves of bass notes intermingled with the Tull has designed a highly-polished, hard to strutting around stage 1ike a drum major said earlier, 
sometimes-harsh, sometimes sweet flute beat show as far as all around enter-with his flute as baton. One wonders how he That was one hell of a show! 
the once and future student 
pete peterson 

(to a dome more vast) new writer of the fertile page 
When I decided last year that my and the people I know "You mean manJuana?" and looked at his calendar. "Well, son, I'd love-hate relationship with Our Lady was here are kind of on another level, you know? "Yes, cannabis, smoke, stuff, you really like to talk to you a little more about something less than mutually beneficial, I I have some real good friends in Colorado know ... " your problem. Do you think you could come got through the preliminary stages of our who have been helpful to me, and I'd just "Yeah. sure. And, you know, mescaline, in next Monday at three?"__ trial separation with few hassles until the like to go back there and spend some more acid. bennies." "Well, I don't know, it's kind of a long subject of money arose. It seems that time with them. This summer was too short Chaplain Tappmann leaned forward and drive from Colorado. I was sort of coummg unless you're sick or drafted, you can't get a to d om ore than make a start." made a flurry of notes. "Now, son, did you on not having to come back for a year or 
"Ah. yes," he said quietly and sincerely, seek professional help for your drug so .... " 
refund after September 10. 
This didn't seem to be much of a problem. checking the distance between my chair and problem?" "I was hoping you might stick around so 
·I was leaving for the sake of my head the open window. "What exactly is the '·It wasn't a problem," I said, realizing that we could work out your problems ... " anyway, so all I needed was a note from the difference between these, ah, friends of that I had gone from paranoid schizophrenic "Well, if I leave, I won't have them shrink stating this. Fine. So I went up to the yours in Colorado and the people you know to drug addict. "I just didn't dig it anymore, anymore." 
here'~" so I quit doing it." "Yes, well, I'd like to talk to you some
Counseling Center to talk to Chaplain 
"I guess the main difference is that the "You quit cold Turkey?" more ... " 
Tappmann. 
"Can't you just write a note saying that

" ..So that's basically it, Father," I said, people I know here are into drugs, and I'd "No. I just stopped doing it. It was a drag sitting back in my chair. "Being here is bad 
like to get away from that. I'm not really so 1 stopped." I shrugged. you think it would be good for me to leave for my head, and I think if I go to interested in doing drugs anymore." Chaplain Tappmann sat up again, "Gee, school"" Chaplain Tappman looked up and then I"m really glad you feel that you can talk to "Oh, yes. I can do that. But I'd like to talk 
Colorado. I will be a lot better off. I'm all set to leave Wednesday, but if I don't get a 
made a note on his pad. "Hmm. Drugs'~" me like this. Most guys don't mention drugs to you some more." letter from you, I'll be out about a thousand. until the third or fourth session." Wait a minute, I thought to myself. I can't 
"Yeah. I was into drugs for awhile and it "WelL I don't think it's that much of a big leave unless I'm crazy, but if I'm crazy Ibucks." 
"Well, what exactly is your problem wasn't very good for my head, so I quit. but deal. Maybe if I was still doing it. I would. have to stay and talk to the shrink ... here?" Chaplain Tappmann asked, his soft it's kind of a drag being around people who And anyway." I said. trying to steer the "Chaplain Tappmann?" I said, standing voice and sincere concern convincing me are still into that." conversation back to my up to go. "I think I'm developing another that I was probably completelybananas "Mm-hmm," he made another note, refund. ''I'm leaving in two days, so I don't symptom" already. I glanced at his feet to see if there "Now, then, son, what kind of drugs do you really have a lot of time to put you on." "What's that'~" 
was a button on the floor to silently summon mean? Pot?" Chaplain Tappmann made another note "Inability to differentiate between fiction the strait-jacket crew. 
"Pot?" and I began to suspect that he was writing and reality." I walked out of his office and "I just can't really achieve any calm here, "Gage, Mary Jane, Weed, hemp, tea,boo, down "put you on." He glanced at his watch headed for my car. Padre. "I've gone through some changes, grass.... " 


~ 
~ 
t ' I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
' 
Wednesday, April 19, 1972
the observer
6 


·'\·:1 McCarthy outlines Participatory democracy 
participation by voters in technology necessary for par­decision.making. 
Congress urges exhaust check 
A special effort to reduce air pollution due to vehicular exhausts by the U.S. Senate and House of Hepresentatives is underway this month. 
The Congressional bodies, which have sponsored National Tidewater Resources Week and National Meat Packers Week, declared April ·National Check Your Vehicle Emissions Month' \NCYVEM), at the urging of leaders from the automotive in­dustry last September. 
The resolution mtroduced by Rep. 
Bob  Eckhardt.  d-Tex,  and  Sen.  
Vance  Hartke.  0-Ind.,  states  in  
part:  

"the President is authorized and requested to Issue a proclamation ... and to call upon the 
Irish Wake tickets 
The Irish Wake will be held Saturday night April 22, at the South Bend Armory. The Wake will not be a '50's parties" as originally planned. but will instead feature music by "Symbol" and "Tht> Electric Circus." 
Tht> price is $:J.OO per couple and all tickets will be sold in advance at the dining halls on Tuesday through Friday. m the Huddle at lunch. and in the Student Union ticket office while they last. 
NO buses will go from the circle directly to the Armory and they will not stop at St. Mary's. The Armory is located on Kemble in South Bend. 
,-----------------------------------------·------­
FRESHMAN PREREGISTRATION PROGRAM WEDNESDAY, APRIL 19, 1972 AT 7:00P.M. ARTS AND LETTERS INTENTS 
Washington Hall 
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION INTENTS Hayes-Healy Center, Room 122 (A through L at 7:00P.M., M through Z at 8:00P.M.) 
AEROSPACE ARCHITECTURE CHEMICAL CIVIL ELECTRICAL 
ENGINEERING SCIENCE Engineering Bldg., Room 307 MECHANICAL Engineering Bldg., Room 302 METALLURGICAL Engineering Bldg., Room 5 
SCIENCE INTENTS 
BIOLOGY CHEMISTRY GEOLOGY MATHEMATICS PHYSICS PREPROFESSIONAL 
INFORMATION WILL BE GIVEN ON AD­VANCE REGISTRATION PROCEDURES AND 
ON  THE  SOPHOMORE  YEAR  AND  ITS  
RELATIONSHIP  TO  THE  DEGREE  
PROGRAM.  

Charles C. McCarthy, former co­director of Notre Dame's non­violence department, spoke on the institution of participatory democracy last night, in the main ball room of LaFortune Student Center. m connection with his campaign as an Independent Democrat for Senator in Massachusetts. 
Participatory democracy is a method by which voters can bind legislators to represent a majority of their constituents on major issues before the legislature. 
McCarthy explained that the 
ENGINEERING INTENTS 
Engineering Bldg., Room 303 
Architecture Bldg., Room 201 
Radiation Lab., Auditorium 
Engineering Bldg., Room 205 
Engineering Bldg., Room 212 

people of the United States to take their vehicles into the repair shop of their choice to have the emissions checked and their vehicles adjusted where necessary, so that we can sub­stantially reduce pollution from the 110 million motor vehicles operating on the streets and high­ways. 
"Comprehensive studies show that this simple inspection with minor adjustments and tune-ups can reduce individual vehicle pollution by an average of 25 percent with resultant cost savings to the owner (by better fuel con­sumption) amounting to about $21 per year." 
NCYVEM has the backing of much of the industry, including manufacturers. associations. oil 
If there's one time you need a friend... 
it',; whpn you ~Pt·k employnwnt. That'<' out· hu:-.int>:-t~. \VhPn you art· "'Pt'kin.l!. t•mployml•nt nr a ,(t·p-up l't·om yuur· l'l'l"t·llt joh, \'isit u,;. You'll ht•t·onw invol\'l·rl with 1"'"1'1" \1 lwtiiHIPr,tand your prnbl<·m..\ nd •·an do ~tmwthing ahout it. That'' th•· kt·\·. IJo~onwtiTilll! about it. Look II> up in th.. WhtlP l'atr•·'· :-.;o,r. Wto't·•• t:Prtain you'll mak• '' t't·it·nrl \nd ~o 'uil wf'. · 

World's Largest Proleu1ona1 Employment Serv1ce 
Call 6 7 4-8384 

~--------------------------------------~ 
Galvin Life Science Center, Room 238 Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 123 Geology Bldg., Room 101 C?mputer-Mathematics Bldg., Room 226 Nteuwland Science Hall, Room 118 Nieuwland Science Hall, Room 127 
ticipatory democracy on a state wide, or national, basis already exists. Possible methods of fraud free voting include the use of telephones or cable television in conjunction with computers to tabulate votes, cast under private voter registration numbers. 
Votes would be taken concerning approximately twelve major issues annually, and a majority of votes cast, from a predetermined minimum percentage of eligible voters, would bind the legislator to that vote. 
When questioned on the dilemma of being bound to a decision con-
companies and the business press. Individual service station owners across the country are being urged to take part. 
The tests. which are designed to take little more than 15 minutes to perform, center about the ignition system. emission control system and fuel system of the automobile. These systems are chosen to provide the maximum effect in correcting exhaust emissions Within a moderate amount of time skill and equipment. ' Craig Hileman service manager for Brook-Silverman Inc. is spearheading plans for the check­up program in Mishawaka, where NCYVEM has been officially proclaimed by Mayor Margaret Prickett. Car owners are strongly urged to take part in the program. 

trary to his moral orientation, separates wealth and power. McCarthy said such a situation Within the role of the senator is to would necessitate resignation. see that issues of public concern 
McCarthy also explained that are put in the form of legislation, possession of a political office and brought to the floor of constitutes political power, which Congress. may not be executed as the office McCarthy hopes to enlist college 
holder had previously promised. student support in Massachusetts,Presently, wealth is a means, and to allow him to collect the 60,000almost a necessity, for gaining signatures necessary to be placed
political office. The institution of on the ballot as an indeoendent. participatory democracy 
DID YOU KNOW THAT ST. FRANCIS IS ALIVE I 
AND WELL... . And working for Christian Unity? We are 
members of a young, American, Franciscan 

~.,.lllrCommunity which is a bit different: our life work is the reunion of separated Christians. How about spending a weekend with us in searching for vocation thru prayer and Christian Fellowship? Both men and women are invited., April 21 -23. 

For details call: Peter Canauan, S.A. 7735 Arth 



-Pracement Bureau\ 
Main Building : 

JOB INTERVIEWS JOB INTERVIEWS I 
INTERVIEWS ARE OPEN TO NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S ! SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS. ANY WHO INTEND TO PARTICIPATE IN THE INTERVIEWS MUST HAVE A COM. PLETED REGISTRATION FORM ON FILE AT THE PLACEMENT BUREAU, ROOM 222, MAIN BUILDING. 
SIGN.UP SHEETS FOR HALF.HOUR INTERVIEWS WILL BE AVAILABLE MONDAY, APRIL 17, IN ROOM 207, MAIN BUILDING. SELECT YOUR OWN TIME AND SIGN YOUR NAME. ROOM 207 WILL BE OPEN 8:00A.M., UNTIL 5:00P.M., MONDAY THROUGH THRUSDAY. 
EMPLOYER LITERATURE IS AVAILABLE ON THE LOWER SHELVES IN ROOM207. TAKE A COPY TO READ AND STUDY. 
CONSULT THE PLACEMENT MANUAL FOR ADDITIONAL i INFORMATION REGARDING PLACEMENT BUREAU IN· TERVIEWS. 
PLEASE NOTE CHANGE FROM WEEKLY PLACEMENT BUREAU BULLETINS ACCORDING TO INDIVIDUAL COLLEGES. THIS BULLETIN COVERS INTERVIEWS FOR I GRADUATES IN: 
LIBERAL ARTS BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION SCIENCE ENGINEERING 
Interviews Scheduled for April 24 and 25 

April 24 MON. 
Mead Johnson Co. Pharmaceutical sales. All degrees and Colleges. Location: 
Chicago. 
April 25 TUES. 
Bowman Products Division -Associated Springs Corp. After.marketautomotive parts industry. For: Professional career in Sales. Locations: Nationwide. All degrees and Colleges. 
Washington National Insurance Co. Personal Insurance. Life, Health, Variable Ann., Mutual Funds. All degrees and Colleges. For: Sales positions leading to management. Location: Indiana. 

Placement Bureau 

The ACTION-PEACE CORPS-VISTA programs now have a per. manent representative on campus. 
Michael A. Williams, Law student, is an ex.Peace Corps worker who spent his overseas tour in Colombia, S.A. 
Mr. Williams is available for either group or individual conferences on any of the ACTION Programs. 
Hours: 2:30. 4:00, Monday thru Friday 
Office: Placement Bureau, Room 223, Admin. Bldg. Phone: 8138 Literature and applications are available 
ACTION-PEACE CORPS-VISTA 

Wednesday, Apri: 19, 1972 the observer 
7 

•
ND nine drubs Valparaiso, 12-5 
Reschan then walked, moved to Reschan followed with a double The defense was also superb as diamond noted. "Our hitting was by Stan Urankar second on Bob Roemer's run­down the left field line. then ND came through with three the best since the Southern trip, scoring safety, and scored when crossed home when Roemer double plays and some brilliant and we're looking forward to a 

Schmitz singled through the box, to rapped a two-bagger to the base of individual efforts. Schuster dove to good series with Miami thisNotre Dame put on their most 
end ND's big inning. the fence in right center. grab a sinking line shot that ended weekend."
powerful offensive show of the the first, and Roemer combinedseason yesterday afternoon at Reschan got the Irish on the Starter Rick Eich went six m­with Iarocci to pick pitcher Ron The Redskins, threats to the Ohio Valparaiso. The Irish riddled four scoreboard quickly when he nings in picking up his third win of Lewis off second base in the third. University domination of the Mid­Crusader pitchers for 14 hits on slapped a three-run first inning the year against no defeats. The American Conference, invadethe way to an easy 12-5 victory. The homer over the fence in right junior left-bander surrendered The win was the 495th in the !'artier Field this weekend. 3 PM is victory snaps a three-game ND center. "I caught hold of a fast only three hits<including a homer illustrious career of Irish mentor game time for a single gamelosing streak, and evens their ball," the sophmore from San to second baseman Don Rice l and Jake Kline. "I was very pleased Friday atternoon, while the lid will record at 7-7. Clemente, Calif. noted afterwards, walked just two while fanning four with our all round performance." go up on a double header at 1 PM about his fifth round-tripper this Crusaders. the 77 year old veteran of the Irish on Saturday.
Theiirish did not resort to just year. "I hit it real good, and thesingles, as half of their hits were of wind just pushed it out." 
"i didn't have my fast ball

the extra-base variety. Rob 
moving at all," Eich said later.

Reschan and captain Joe LaRocca LaRocca put the Irish in double "Mv arm was pretty sore all theeach blasted home runs, with a big figures with his second circuit way, and I couldn't throw mysix-run fifth inning providing the clout of the season. The senior first 
hardest. My curve ball was

margin of victory. baseman ripped a 1-1 offering from jumping well, though, and the wind reliever Joe Medellin over the 350 







OBSERVER
All Irish tallies in that stanza helped my fast ball move around."
foot sign in left field to lead off the proved to be unearned, as Mark seventh. 
Schmitz reached base on an error Hard-throwing Bill Lucas came 
before Ken Schuster and Tony ND capped their scoring in the on to lock up the Irish victory. 
SPORTS
Iarocci followed by flying out. ninth when Nussbaum led off with Lucas gave up two runs on a walk Pitcher Rick Eich walked, and a double, and moved to third on a and a pair of scratch singles in the 
..... 
Dick Nussbaum brought two runs passed balL After Hansen struck ninth, but also whiffed five home with a double to the fence in out. LaRocca lined a shot that Crusaders batters. right center. shortstop Joel Theiss leaped to catch. Theiss then tried to double 
Top teams win in bookstore b-ball event
Tom Hansen scored Nussbaum up Nussbaum, but the errant throw on a base hit to left, and LaRocca bounded into the Valpo dugout, and by Lt'fty Ruschmann Other teams given a shot at the Vince Meconi, Commissioner ofsent the first pitch bouncing off the the Irish center fielder walked in Clear skies and warm weather title include The Boys, a pro-am Bookstore Basketball, warnedleft field houndary for a triple. easily. 
drew SRO crowds to the Athletic outfit which starts two Buffalo that tomorrow's scheduled and Publication Center yesterday Bills draft choices, and Hawks and contests will· be played, rain or as the Bookstore B-Ball Tourney Geese, named after Irish stars 
shine.

I cers to play 15 home 
rolled into its second day of "Goose" Novak and "Hawk" 
In other Bookstore news, tourney 
competition. Stevens. The Boys got past a 
bigwigs announced that they willTwenty-o11e teams remain, in­stubborn Arkansas Club, 21-16, give the honor of 'Mr. Bookstore' to
games next season 
cluding four entries heavily loaded while Hawks and Geese destroyed 
the best non-varsity althlete in the
with varsity talent. The class of the The Faction, 21-4.
A return trip to the E.C.A.C. Boston College on the road Dec. 22. event. Selection will probably be
field appears to be The Family,
Holiday Festival Tournament in The Irish will meet NCAA Bookstore Basketball Results made by a panel of writers, fans, 
featuring John Shumate, Gary
New York's Madison Square finalists Denver and Wisconsin. and a few wandering emptoyees of
Brokaw. Dwight Clay, Pete Crotty,
Garden plus home games with two the first and second place teams in Exhibitionists 21 Smegma 18 Gilbert's and the laundry, though
and Cliff Brown. They dumped the 
of the teams in the 1972 NCAA the WCHA last year, at home on City Bounds 21 White Trash 9 some officials are toying with the
Lestrygonians, 21-14, despite the
finals highlight the 1972-73 Notre Dec. !1-9 and Feb. 23-24 respec­Marksmen 21 Bagmen 0 idea of a popular vote of the rabble. 
inspired play of the losers' Dan
Dame hockey schedule. tively. Hawks and Geese 21 The Faction 4 
Mills. 
Twt'nty One 22 Stoned Poneys 20Athletic Director Edward In addition to Boston College and Irish Guard
Black Magic established itself as White Pearls 21 CCTKK 19(Moose l Krause indica ted the Irish the ECAC, the only other non­the top contender to The Family, Stanford Deviants 21 Crowdicers will play 33 games. 15 of them league opponents scheduled are 
as the Townsend Brothers sparked Pleasers o 
holds tryouts
at home. ND will play 14 of 28 the opening ga1p.es of the season on their club to a 21-5 romp over the Lt>o's Lunchmt'ats 21 Go1lmothersWestern Collegiate Hockey Nov. 3-5 against Bowling Green. Sorin Salukis in the darkness. 1!1
Association games on the Athletic The Irish will clash with tl Robert T. O'Brien, Dtrector of 
The Family 21 Lestrygonians 14 the Notre Dame Bands has an­and Convocatwn Center ice. Falcons on the road on Friday at Ruggers bow Mangy Moose 21 Dry Heaves 18 nounced that trvouts for the IrishNotre Dame will defend its then play at home Sunday nigh,, Houndballs 21 SOS l:l
ECAC title Dec. 19-20 and then face Guard for the 1972-73 marching
Nov. 5. 
Anvil Chorus 21 Malo 19to Cornell season will be held today andThe Irish will face WCHA op­Tht' Boys 21 Arkansas Club 16 Thursday at 6:30 in the Bandponents Michigan, Michigan State, 
Four win in 
A neutral site in Buffalo, New Holy Toes 21 Pacers 0 Room, located in the back of
Wisconsin, Colorado College and York was the scene Saturday as Zephyrs 21 Punchy's Boys 11 Washington Hall.
Denver a total of four times while Black Magic 21 Sorin Salukis 5karate event the Notre Dame rugby team went The only prerequisite for trying
meeting Minnesota-Duluth, 
down to defeat 11-0 at the hands of out for the traditionally elite of theMinnesota, Michigan Tech andTom Roszak, Ken McDonnell, Cornell University. S tickmen host Irish marching corp is a height ofNorth Dakota twice.
Bob Gunning and John Sheally ­
The Irish ruggers were 6'2". No previous marching or.vere all winners in the first annual Lefty Smith's 1971-72 team described as being musical experience is necessary . 


Michigan
finished with an overall 14-20\lotre Dame Karate Cham­
"psychologically flat" going into Jionships held recently. record. the contest and from all indications The Notre Dame lacrosse team
Roszak and Gunning were the The schedule : was more thanthis a accurate makes its first home appearance ofNov. 3 at Bowling Green; Nov. 5victors in the kata, or forms, description. Cornell scored a try the season today, hosting numberBOWLING GREEN; Nov. 10-11competition, in which a person is and a penalty kick in the first half one rival Michigan. TheMICHIGAN; Nov. 17-18atDenver;required to perform a set sequence to make it 7-0. The Big Red in­Wolverines have been the source of Nov. 24-25 MINNESOTA.
of movements of attack and creased their margin of victory in Irish frustration for the past twoDec. 1-2 at Wisconsin; Dec. 8-9defense agamst imaginary op­the second half by four with the years and today's clash will have a DENVER; Dec. 19-20 ECAC atponents. .Roszak was first in the tally of another try. Both Cornell lot to say about who will finish first NPw York; Dec. 22 at Bqstonwhite belt ( bl:'ginner l division and 
conversion attempts failed. Notre in the Midwest this year.Gunning won the yellow belt College. Dame. on the other hand, failed to Notre Dame, with a 5-2 record, is 
Jah. 5-6 at Michigan; Jan 12-13(advanced beginner) ti.tle. 
mount any serious scoring attack. a definite contender, but they mustMcDonnell and Sheally took top COLORADO COLLEGE; Jan. 19­The Irish club had about a two stop Michigan, something they20 at Michigan Tech; Jan. 26-27honors in free sparring. where Neek lay-off following their haven't been able to do in the past. 
MICHIGAN STATE.
points are awarded if a punch or Southern trip and were missing Physically, the Irish are hurting.
kick is delivered to primary Feb. 2·3 NORTH DAKOTA; Feb. 
five starters. These two factors Midfielder Dave Jurusik is still9-lOatColoradoCollege; Feb. 16-17striking area with good focus, yet 
definitely added to the rugger's favoring his left leg, bruised in the with control. McDonnell fought m at Michigan St.; Feb. 23-24 doldrums. Ohio State game. Attackman Joe 
the white belt division and Sheally. WISCONSIN. 
Juniors Dave Simpson and Mike Anderson also suffered a leg in­March 2-3 at Minnesota-Duluth.
in the belt class. 
Began playing in their first A jury, but he and Jurusik are game. were assets to the Irish scheduled to start. effort. Veteran Joe .Jafener also The stickmen have been getting managed a fine performance on consistent scoring from the behalf of the losing cause. middies and this could be the 
Saturday the ruggers will be decisive factor in the game. hosted by the University of Face off time is at 3 p.m. behind Wisconsin at Madison. ~tepan Center. 
jln the heart iof downtown \South Bend 

!GOOD FOOD AT MODEST PRICES 
1 

·Steaks Chops ·Chicken ·Sea Fooa I Quiet atmosphere -pleasant surroundings 
CLOSED lUONDAYS 
Daily & Sunday 11 am till 9 pm Saturday 


J
11 am till10 pm 



., Tl:e Tr1J~ lu..cur 1 r:rn 
• The 'Nortd'~ Mo,t Jn•'-.l 
• v'ot~d ThP. Luxurl c:'Jr ')I ;-·p f•·'lr' 
Used Spec1ills of the Week 
7 2 MERCEDES BE'.IZ 250 A·'ll FM '<-'ld'o, ;o, ,. , Power Steer c,~ & B-akes ' 70 ,_,;_;)S TORONAD') LoadP.cl 
,; : T·<O:O:' 'JS 2' T'"'p T. If' ~ ~" . ~I -=->" .,1 >= · i, a.51, '": DC:;( 
A . -~ c.-.­

70 FIAT 850 SPORTS COUP':: 
Wide Wheeis 

67 FIAT ABARTH 1100 
New Pa1nt, Maq Wheels 



auto/sport 
CITROEN~ 
UDDH 
U.S. 31 N., South Bend 
Phone 272 2854 

Wednesday, April 19, 1972
the observer
8 

Wallace \Yoos 'average citizen' 
By Ann McCarry 

Stressing the difference between the "top leadership" in the country and the "average citizen", George 
C. Wallace said yesterday that, in Indiana·, "The average citizens they've ignored all these years are going to support me just as 
they have in Florida and Wisconsin." 
The Alabama governor said that he is primarily interested in the issues and in the message that is being sent by those average citizens, through support of him to the Democratic and Republican parties. 
"If I win in Indiana," Wallace continued, " I may just deliver that message myself instead of sending it!" Wallace thinks he will do "well" in the Indiana primary. 
When confronted with the fact that the United Auto Workers have endorsed Minnesota Sen. Hubert Humphrey in the Indiana primary, Wallace noted that the top leadership of the labor unions opposed him in Wisconsin, but he ran well anyway. 
"I have the best labor record of any governor in Alabama history," Wallace said. He noted labor support for his Alabama guber­natorial races and labor support he received in the Florida pimary. 
Busing 

Wallace is opposed to busing to 
achieve racial balance, and he 
feels the people are, too. 

The Alabama governor argued 
that states should be allowed 
"more control of their schools on a 
non-discriminatory basis." He 
said he supports "quality 
education" on a "freedom of 
choice" basis, but he called for a 
stop to all this assinine bussing." 
"There's not a blue-collar 
worker in the state who wants to 
see his little child bussed to 
kingdom come. " Wallace said. 
"They straddled that issue so 
much down in Florida that some of 
them couldn't walk for a week." he 
continued. 

-
Vietnam 

While slamming other democratic contenders for voting for the Gulf of Tonkin resolution, Wallace did say he supports the bombing of Hanoi and Haiphong if it was done with the intention of protecting American troops. 
"I am for whatever action deemed absolutely necessary for the safety and security of remaining American ser­vicemen," Wallace stated. 
He went on to say that the United States should not be involved in a land war in Asia, expressing concern for the servicemen now withdrawn safely. I don't think they ought to be there," he said, adding support for the bombing if it is done in the interest of insuring the safe withdrawal of the troops now there. 
there.  
"I  want  them  withdrawn  
because  we  have  no  clear-cut  
policy  there.  But I  want  them  

When questioned about rising food prices, Wallace feels that the government should "jawbone the middleman" who is reaping all the profits of the price increase. He also advocated stronger ap­plication of the Phase II program and establishment of the minimum farmers' parity at 90 percent. 
After the conference Wallace shook hands and spoke with a crowd of about 200 that gathered to greet him at the St. Joseph's County Airport, Tuesday af­ternoon. 
Dr. Messbarger to resign 

Dr. Paul Messbarger will resign as chairman of St. Mary's English department at the end of this semester. 
Messbarger, who has served a three-year term in the post, em­phasizes that no ill-feeling is in­volved in his decision. 
"I firmly believe that all department chairmanships should be rotated regularly," he contends. 
"This was understood when I was hired." 
A new chairman should be named in about two weeks, but so far there are no apparent can­didates from the existing faculty, none of whom seem interested in the job. However, the department will be hiring two new members for next year,and there is the possibility that the post could fall to one of them. 
The administration has as yet made no move to appoint a new chairman. This power technically lies in the hands of the college president, but whenever a new chairman is to be chosen, the members of the department hold an election and submit the results to the president. It is then his prerogative to accept or overrule them. 
Dr. Messbarger will step down as head of SMC English depart­ment. 
ATTENTION ALL GRADUA­TING STUDENTS 
MEASUREMENTS 
will be taken 
for 





COLLE GIATE 
CAPS 
and 


GOWNS 
Wednesday, 
April 19 
Thursday, 

April 20 
between 

9:00 -4:00 
at the 

NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 



CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: 1 FANTASTIC Boys· Girls 20" beginner bicycle. Low milage, very few dents. Call 272­1885 after 6:00 pm 
Martin Classical Guitar, model 00 lBC. Tom, 8018, after 11 pm 
1967 BSA VICTOR 441 Window at 1535 Turtle Creek Dr. Leave phone No. in mail box. 
8 Track closeout. Good tapes only $2.00 114 Farley 

For Sale: 1970 Fiat 124 Spider. New M Michel ins, recent valve 
job. Good condition. $2300 or best offer. 234 3963. 
MONEY MAKING OP­PORTUNITY Earn $100 monthly on small in­vestment soccer game. Call 234­1946 or 283-8670. 
-~ 

1970 TR IMUPH GT6+, Dark Blue, Superb condition, must see to believe. AM FM radio, Pirrelli Radials, stebro exhaust, new transmission, $2.400. Call John 232-4135. 
-

Latest B~track tapes $4.00 and $5.00. Phone 283-1064. 
1971 Honda C B 100 only ridden BOO miles. Call 1166. 
SAVE ON RECORDING T.OPE! Cassette, Reel, and S-track; 
Ampex,  BASF,  Memorex,  Sony,  
or  TDK.  Call  Don:  3729.  
FOR RENT  

Kitchens & Rooms $45 per month. Girls only. AI so free rent for summer for painting the house. 233-1329. 
For Rent: 4 room apt. childless married student prefered. Phone 289-1264. 
Summer only. Huge old 4 
bedroom  house.  Comfortably  
furnished.  Whole  summer  or  
school session on I y.  234-1972.  

3 bedroom, 7 room house -nearby campus on Notre Dame Ave. Suitable for four people. Summer onlu. Call John or Bruce 8092. 
House For Rent . Summer only · 2 blocks from ND. 3 to 5 bedrooms. 175 mo. Call Julie 4549. 
Married Law Student · Furnished Apt. Two Bedrooms. Call 272­8696. 
PERSONALS 

Weenes, Karate belt advancement tests April 22, I hope you're ready. 
Mike 
You're Welcome Mama. 
Little One-

A Saturday trip can be arranged. Mom's read. You tell me Tonite! 
Me 
LOST AND FOUND 

LOST: Benrus Watch, silver-colored. Will be Rewarded. Call 6725. 
Lost: Parker fountain pen on SMC Campus. REWARD. 5237. 
Cape . Black, full length. Lost at Beaux Arts. Reward for return. Call Joseph Velez 233-0842, 233­6800. 
LOST: PAIR OF WIRE RIM GLASSES IN A CAR WITH FLORIDA LICENSE PLATES LAST THURSDAY ON THE WAY TO LOUIE'S. CALL BILL 8738. 
Lost: Statistics Book Friday noon. Important! Name is in it. "Hush" 1463. 
LOST: Statistics Book, will not be used as textbook next year. 
Contains invaluable and irreplaceable notes. !5 Reward; no questions asked if returned. Call Bob 1167. 
. -­

LOST: Wilson -Staff 7 iron. Will reward. Call Mike 1543. 
NOTICES 

The best way to and from Chicago is on the Greyhound non-stop from campus. Call Tom Boyer, 6984, lor information. 
Parts and Accessories for lm­ported cars. Foreign Car Parts Co~ 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 272-7187. 
50 gallons free gas with 4 tire purchase; 25 free gallons gas with 2 tire purchase. Ask about our rustproofing and shock absorber specials. Ron's Standard, 1409 Portage Ave. 255-0520. 
Grow Abroad This Summer... a month of carefree travel on your own in Europe...plus four weeks of study in art, music, photography, drama or French. Growth through experience and in­struction... isn't that what it's all about? $695 from New York. Call Joe McDonough, campus representative American In­ternational Academy. Phone 234­3465 . 283-7024. 
Baseball Freaks: Knights of Columbus sponsortng EX­CURSION to Reds Cubs game April 29. Price $8 for members or qirls, $10 for non-members. In­cl udes Box Seat ducats. Food & Beverage on Chartered Bus. If interested call Bob Cunningham (1876 or K Of C. (7018). 
Mary Ann 234-3250 Experienced Typist Will negotiate on rates. 

GOOD BOOKS SALE: BURY MY HEART AT WOUNDED KNEE $1.95 now $1.37; SEPARATE REALITY-2.95 now 1.95; WAY OF ALL THE EARTH (DUNNE) 2.95 now 1.95; KNOTS (LAING 1.45 now .99; KAMA SUTRA 1.25 now .88; MASSAGE BOOK 3.95 now 2.90; JANIS 4.95 now 3.47; and more at PAN­DORA'S BOOKS-SB ND AVES. 
Pitt Club Election. If you are interested in running, call: John: 232 2725, Milo; 6726, Steve; 6756. 
WANTED 
WANTED: We will do typing anytime for reasonable prices. Especially on short notice. Call Chip 8256 or Mike 6963. 
Wanted: Volunteers for Wallace to unite in effective political ac-lion. Contact: Dr. Helen Calvin, 103 s. Eddy Street, South Bend, Indiana. Phone: 288-2201. 
MAKE GOOD EASY MONEY 

selling stereos to friends at student rates. Need un derclassmen to be dorm 
representatives for stereo marketing service. Call Tom NOW 1318 or 1327. 
Wanted: Unfurnished two bedroom house for summer and next school year. Call Mike 283­1349. 
Central New Yorkers -We'll haul your belongings home in May. Must determine truck size from number interested so call NOW. Horse 3874 Gigantic 1046. 
Need ride to I 80 west or Davenport, Iowa Friday 21. Phil 8408. 
I.U. RIDERS NEEDED TO I.U. NEXT TWO FRIDAYS. ROB 8152. 
Ride needed to DePaul or In­dianapol is, can leave anytime Friday afternoon. Please call Kathy 5364. 
Need ride to Indy. Can leave anytime Fri. 21st. Call Tom 3454. 
REVELATIONS 

DULAC DEMON'S DIABOLICAL 
DICTATE NO.1-ATTENTION! 

0 Ye of little faith (and other 
horny devils): Lucifer Prince of 
Darkness, Deniyen of Dillon, 
Slayer of Beerslayer, Purveyor of 
Purity, Surveyor of Sobriety, 
Premiere of Piece, Voyeour of Vulgaria, and all-around-Bad-Guy contemptuously dares you to refrain from persuing Dictate No. 
2! 

No.2: (remember fool: curiosity killed the cat) The afore. mentioned Entity is (a) hoofing about freely and clovenly (b) incapable of mercy (c) desirous to let it be known that cockroaches make superb spies and (d) Ihe mouthwash hasn't been made that can cut my breath! IDLE MINDS AND CARD TABLES ARE SATAN'S PLAYGROUND! 
·­
Words lda 2da 3da 4da Sda 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 


.... 
... 






