
The weather will remain fickle, as usual. 


Vol. VI. No. 8 3 ol notre dame -st. mary's Tuesday, February 22, 1972 
Three more announce SBP bids 
Thomas pushes for more informed campus minority recruitment 
Pledging to begin "what hopefully will become a com­munity university here," off-campus Junior A. Dennis Thomas last night became the eighth officially-declared candidate for the student body president's office. 
Thomas, who comes from South Rend, will run with another off-campus Junior, Michael Heimers of Fort aWayne. Indiana. 
<'OillJ)Il'tl' univt>rsity 
Thomas said he had "four major platform planks." which included: 
---a "major increase" in minority recruitment, "especially among Blacks, Chicanos, and Puerto Hicans." 
---"an effort to get the Notre Dame ad­ministration to inform the students, faculty, and alumni as to the exact problem involved with the merger of Notre Dame and St. Mary's." 
---the elimination of the senate and its replacement by the Hall President's Council. 
---an off-campus student government with "permanent financial support" and represen­tation on the Hall President's Council. 
According to Thomas, the money could be used to build an off-campus student center. "Off­campus students should have some control over what their life is going to be like," he contended. 
"They <off-campus students) will never have the type of community one of the smaller halls might have, but they do have needs ... I don't think these needs are being met," Thomas complained. 
Thomas also pledged to create "a student corps of speakers and discussion leaders well versed in various subjects to go out into the community to speak to various clubs, schools, et cetera." 
According to Thomas, such a program would induce a positive response from the University community to major national and world problems," raise a similar response from South Bend residents, and "lessen tensions" between University students and area citizens. 
Thomas pledged that if elected his office would be "really open. Anyone who wants to talk with us will be welcomed and encouraged." 
"Mike and I offer a clear alternative to the dismal state of NO student government," Thomas contended. 
Thomas had no plans to merge the Notre Dame and St. Mary's student government. "All a merger would be," he said, "at least until the two campuses merge, would be a symbolic gesture to show the University where the students stand. I think the two Universities already know where we stand." 
"If they <St. Mary's student government) really wanted to go ahead with the merger I'd go along, but I don't think it's very important." 
Thomas said that there would be no "massive 
campaign psychosis," from his camp. "The 
effort of some candidates in the Notre Dame 
student body elections to create microcosms of 
national political organizations is an absurd 
cxtension of national sickness ... Such a cam­
paign," he contended, "is an insult to the student 
body." 
However. Thomas said he would do "some 
hall-to-hall campaigning." His campaign will be 
managed by Mike Raymond. 
by T.C. Treanor Observer Assistant Editor 

Fitzpatrick deals with antiquated structures and student minorities 
St. Mary .s Student Assembly and Student Affairs Council member Eileen Fitzpatrick last night announced her candidacy for St. Mary's student body presidency. 
Miss Fitzpatrick, a General Program Major from Somerspoint, New Jersey, last year came in third in a seven-candidate race for Notre Dame's student body presidency. Shw will run with Mary Orr, a sophomore double-majooring in English and History. 
Miss Fitzpatrick pledged a "reform cam­paign" and siad she was running on a platform to "improve academics, establish self­determination in the halls, and improve the social atmosphere." 
She saw her job as Student Body President as a commitment both to "represent and to lead " an? promised. to use "the sturcutres already existmg to their most extreme capacities, and to create new ones." 
Miss Fitzpatrick said she would "lead create new ideas, and deal imaginatively and boldly with the problems." 
She also said that she had a commitment to "achieve a structure in which the student is able to develop to his fullest potential as a human being." 
• 
She contended that there were ''many committees that were either·dormant or without proper student represen­tation." She included 
· the Academic Affairs 
Committee, the
·~ 

Student Affairs Committee, the Rank 
• and Tenure Com­mittee, and the Presidential Search 
..· 

Committee among those she said needed 
im-additional student Jn·ovt>ments reoresP.ntlltion. "The presidential search committee has 
considered candidates I think would be ob­jectionable to the majority," she concluded. 
Miss Fitzpatrick said she was "not afraid of confrontation politics, but it would be a gross simplification to say that would be the only wat to get things done." 
She also contended that "it would be most beneficial <for Notre Dame and St. Mary's) to merge," but said it would be "unrealistic" to expect such a merger to come about soon. 
"St. Mary's should be a viable institution in the event it does not merge," she said. 
She argued that St. Mary's would become "viable" if it instituted "academic reform" indlucing "new programs, expanding depart­ment5, and broader concepts." 
"Possibilities such as being an experimental school or co-ed should be considered," she said. 
She endorsed "heavy recruitment of minorities," contending that "we must look at alternate views of reality---not just white middle­class Christianity." She suggested St. Mary's institute remedial summer programs for minority students who could not otherwise meet the College's Academic requirements. 
Fitzpatrick contended that changing St. Mary's to a Stay-Hall system would be "rejected by most of the students there," but said that it was an issue that should be decided by referendum. 
"There is no evidence at the present time to believe that the student body is in favor of stay­hall," Miss Orr agreed. 
The Fitzpatrick campaign will be managed by Susan Jackson, a Junior from Clarksdale, Michigan. 
N D not yet ready for 
democracy. Kersten 

wants own oligarchy 
Bob Kersten, a former alternate homeroom 
student council representative at North Junior 
High School in Fort Dodge, Iowa, last night 
announced candidacy for the office of Notre 
Dame Student Body President. 
Speaking from the office of the second com­
mode in the Walsh hall fourth floor lavatory, 
Kersten and his running-mate, UnCandidate the 
Cat, pledged to develop a "hard-hitting cam­
paign in which I plan to come out unequivocally 
and indefin.ttely on every major issue." 
Kersten issued a twelve-point program to 
supporters and press from his combination 
fourth-floor campaign headquarters and 
bath~oom. In it, he and UnCandidate will, ac­
cordmg to Kersten, "address ourselves to these 
issues which our opponents have designated 
vital." The positions include 
---abolition of all present student government 
institutions, and their replacement by "an 
oligarchy consisting of myself and my close 
friends." Kersten explained that "I don't think 
Notre. Dame is ready for a democracy yet," and 
promised that "those of you who vote for me 
twice will be given preferential treatment." 
---a "takeover of the Observer in order to in­
sure that the paper and the president could see 
eye-to-eye on all issues." 
---the "hiring of Clifford Irving to establish 
liaison with the real Father Hesburgh." 
---replacing the current pass-fail option with an 
A-B option "excepting <in l pre-med, where the 
standard B-C-0-F option shall remain in effect." 
---a fact-finding trip to St. Mary's this Friday 
night. "Though we can't hope that this one trip 
will wipe out twenty-five years of 
hostility," he contended, "it will nevertheless be 
a step in the right direction." 
---the sending out of "merger 'feelers' to St. 
Mary's of the Woods, Terry Haute, Indiana, and 
St. Mary's of the Field, Winona, Minnesota " 
since "St. Mary's is not the only small Catholic 
college in the country." 
---the recruitment of Yanamamo Indians from 
Southern Brazil. 
---raising prices for student bookstore items so 
that "inflation may be kept from biting into the 
alumni market for Notre Dame beanies buttons 
blankets, and other trinkets." ' ' 
---the distribution of scholarships by lottery. 
---a three-point social program that includes: 
over-the-hump dances on Sunday morning, 
student attendance at merger talks, and 
"negotiation for a Rocka-Rocka discotheque 
franchise on campus." 
---quoting a man he identified only as "our 
cosmic deity" as saying "every Notre Dame 
man has a responsibility to make the women at 
home," Kerstein argued that "we aren't going to 
be able to make anyone until there is a repeal of 
all parietals," and pledged that "my first efforts 
in this area would be directed toward that end " 
hersten said he was running because "I nev~r 
had any close friends in childhood. I was looking 
for some sort of affirmation." 
In order to "take my stand on the issues directly to the students," Kersten will establish "office hours here in my headquarters from 4: 15 to 4:30 on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday." 

KI'J'sh•n and running mate~~~ to stand 
"indl'rinitely on t>very major issue." 
New 111inority aid .....see page 2 

Page 2 THE OBSERVER. Tuesday, February 22, 197'2 

$3 million fund stabilizes minority aid 
OUTSTANDING VALUES 
$4.98 LP'S $5.98 


$1.00 
fttllllll~' i;llll~~ 
THE IIMERICJIN BREED 

FOUR TOPS' 
by Jerry Lutkus purpose behind the endowment is Observer News Editor to increase the percentage of 
University President Fr. minority students at Notre Dame Theodore Hesburgh announced He continued saying "This today that Notre Dame has represent about 25 per cent of our established an endowed fund of $3 total endowed and contributed million to provide educational scholarship funds going to about 3 awards for undergraduate per cent of our undergraduate minority students. students." 
The new endowment will provide about $150,000 yearly for awards to minority students. "mini -step" This is in addition to awards of Carl Ellison, head of the $40,000 to $50,000 annually from Recruitment Action Program,other University designated has a different view of the en­
scholarship funds, so that in the dowment, however. Ellison saysfuture about $200,000 of that the grants look very, very
University funds will b'e available good, but he claims, "This is but annually for awards to un­a mini-step by the University."dergraduate minority students. "If the University reallyThe new endowment was wanted to greatly increase the gathered from several sources, numbers of minority students on including a Ford ::.;'oundation campus, the endowment should Scholarship Fund and a recent be in terms of $6 million instead 
Knights of Columbus gift. Rev. of $3 million," Ellison noted. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., It might be satisfactory for provost said the endowment had minority students if the its genesis in a half-million University established a dollars which was set aside to graduated program of en­endow minority student awards dowments so that the en­last spring. dowments would approach the $6 
Burtchaell claimed that the million mark according to 

Winter Festival gets snow but few people 

At the snowy line of scrimmage are a few of the people who e_njoyed the Winter Festival this weekend. 
by Anthony Abowd 

Notre Dame's first attempt at a Winter Festival over the weekend was successful but unspectacular, according to the festival organizer. 
About a hundred students participated in many winter sports in 
the day long affair atND Holy Cross Hall. 
"I was a ,ittle disappointed at the size of the crowd, but it seemed that everyone who went had a good time," said Tom Valenti who organized the festival barely a week before it occurred. 
Several inches of new snow and freezing weather had both good 
and bad effects on the festival. The weather made tray sledding, 
hockey and snow football the most popular sports. 
"It was bad snow for packing and it was windy and cold. This may have discouraged people fromcoming" said Jennifer Swint, an SMC student who braved the weather to attend the festival. 
Only about twenty other SMC girls came and this also discouraged Valenti. Plans to name a campus snow queen had to be scrapped. 
"I'm sure most of the campus knew about it. We had posters and advertising everywhere. I spoke to many girls at SMC. They all said they would come but they didn't showup," Valenti said. 
Valenti is certain another Winter Festival should be held. Changes for next year would include more publicity and more planning. 
"This is basically something to do on a boring campus weekend. 
I'm sure people will come,'' the ND sophomore said. 
Behind the scenes at the Winter Festival was the Student Union 
that footed most of the expenses. Brother Borromeo, ND fire chief 
permitted St. Mary's lake to be flooded for better skating. Holy 
Cross residents spent many hours flooding the lake, shovelling 
snow off the ice and preparing the sledding slope. 
Turnout was also discouraging at the square dance at SMC 
Saturday night. The high boy to girl ratio was the most common 
coni plaint. "Still," Valenti said, "most of the people who came had 
a good time." 
rgh announces . minority aid. 
Ellison. 

Ellison outlined two major points that he thinks would better the University's treatment of minorities. First, he thinks that the endowments must approach $6 million within a ten year period. Next, the University must make co-education viable 
·for the minority student here. 
black students 
As it now stands, Ellison questions the effectiveness of the new program. There have only been 13 black women who have at;>t;>lied to Notre Dame. There have been no black female ap­plicant's to St. Mary's. So Ellison contends, even though th~ endowment may increase the male population to over 200, there may only be 10 to 15 black females on campus. 
The solution in Elision's mind is to make new guidelines for transfers. He feel that to make co-education more viable for balcks, the University must be willing to match scholarship totals for transfering students, waive the 3.0 requirement for transfers, accept D's from transfering students, and waive the 60 hour residency requirement for transfers. 
The whole problem of minority funding was brought to new light this year when the University declined to enter into post-season football action. In the past two years, Notre Dame has competed in bowl games to obtain the funds necessary for minority scholarships and aid. 
Hesburgh claimed that the new fund will provide a stabilized source of minority students awards. "In 1970, Notre Dame broke a 44-year ban on post­season appearances to play in the Cotton Bowl earmarking the 

FRANKIE Llllf 
funds for minorities. In their two bowl appearances the University garnered more than a quarter of a million dollars for minority students. 

no bowl funds 

The new fund, however, will eliminate the uncertainty of a bowl bid. Burtchaell claims that in addition to the $200,000 there are several other types of aid available to ND minority students--uually as part of an individually tailored student aid "package". 
These other types of aid include state scholarships; National Merit Awards, federal educational opportunity grants, National Defense student loans, etc. Administrators noted that for the current school year, the average financial aid package for non-athletic minority sudents was $2500 compared to the average of $1675 paid to all students receivinl! aid. 
Elision was favorable to the University designation of these funds as non-athletic. These funds will not include grant-in-aid for student athletes. 
All of the new awards from the endowment will be administered by the University's Office of Financail Aid and Scholarships. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. 
N"otre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


Notre Dante Bookstore 

Tuesday, February 22, 1972 THE OBSERVER. Page 3 


world briefs 
!Cl 1972 New York Times 
Jl'rusalem--The Israeli forei~n ministry announced that Gunnar Jarring, the United Nations Middle East envoy, woul_d soon v~sit Jerusalem. Jarring has just ended two days of talks wtth Egyptian leaders in Cairo. The visit was reportedly proposed by Jarring, but there was no indication that he had substantive information about any new suggestions for peace talks. 
Washington--An amendment designed to defuse the school busing issue has been drafted by a bipartisan group of Senate leaders. The amendment, which will be offered when the Senate takes up an Aid to Education bill, would permit the use of busing to overcome officially imposed segregation, but would seek to restrain federal agencies and the courts from using busing to achieve the broader objective of racial l:l;)J.ance. 
Harrisburg. Pa.--In its opening statement at the conspiracy trial of the Rev. Phillip Berrigan and six other anti-war activists, the government chief prosecutor confirmed that its entire case was based on information given to the Federal Bureau of Investigation by a single informer, Boyd F. Douglas Jr.. Douglas allegedly gave copies of messages from Berrigan, then in Federal Prison, to his co­conspirators on the outside. 
nd-smc 
5:00-6: 30---sign-ups, mock democratic convention, dining halls. 
5: 45---basketba II, freshmen vs. purdue, ace. 7:00---meeting, mecha, rockne memorial. 7:00---meeting, frosh council, Iafortune, second floor. 
8:00---basketball, nd vs fordham, ace. 
on campus today 


Nixon confers With Mao; toasts Chou 
can establish "normal state
by Max Frankel for the visiting Americans by the 
Taiwan.relations." 
(c) 1972 New York Times Premier this evening. And using a quotation from
Nixon responded, in a more
After the shark's fin in three Chairman Mao, the President
expansive tone, after the fried
Peking, Feb. 2---President shreds at the banquet, Chou rose said it was time to seize the day
·and stewed prawns. Rising from
Nixon began his week-long to send greetings across the and to seize the hour "for our two 
table no. 1, where he had
summit conference in China ocean, by television, to the peoples to rise to the heights of
eatenwith chopsticks after hosts 
today by receiving a surprise American people and to describe greatness which can build a new
had loaded his plate wttb a ser­
audience with Chairman Mao Nixon's long journey here as a and a better world." 
ving of each dish in auc:eeasion, he
Tse-Tung, exchanging unusual "positive move" responding to After each of the toasts before
found the hospitality in­
toasts with Premier Chou En-Lai the wishes of the peoples of both · BOO guests at round tables in the
comparable, the dinner
and then joining in two rather countries. huge reception hall, the principal 
magnificent and the American
extensive rounds of itinerant Chou said the reasons for 20 conferees went a-roaming, -
music, as rendered by the
glass-<:linking in the Great Hall of years of tension without contacts thimble-size glasses in hand,
People's Liberation Army Band, 
the People and the Square of the were "known to all"-meaning clinking this way and that way
unsurpassed in a foreign land.
Gate of Heavenly Peace. 
primarily American support for from table to table and sipping or
Although the Chinese have
The meeting with Mao, the an independent Taiwan. He pretending as Chou usually
made it plain that they still
enshrined leader of the Com­credited both governments for pretends.
harbor suspicions about
munist rulers of China, appeared "common efforts" to open the The Americans warmed up
American policy and what they
to have been added hurriedly to gate to better contacts at last. gradually to this routine, but the 
call its "imperialism," the
Nixon's schedule on his first And he expressed confidence that president did his best to bury the band offered a bouncy tune and 
afternoon here. But nothing is further pressure from the people­Nixon, Secretary of State William 
American fears of a Chinese
known about what was said and P. Rogers and Henry A.
--who "alone" shape world menace that he himself had onceattention was therefore focused history---will surely bring the day Kissin~er were soon scattered far 
helped to arouse.
on the remarkable banquet given when China and the United States from their own sumptuous table, 
"There is no reason for us to be while the Premier and hisenemies," he said. "Neither of us principal politburo colleagues for seeks the territory of the other; this visit, Yeh Chien-Ying, who isneither of us seeks domination in charge of the military, and Li 
Dr. Moody explains Nixon trip 
over the other; neither of us Hsien-Nien, the vice-premier whoseeks to stretch out our hands and is in charge of most otherby Mike O'Hare rule the world." 
domestic matters, had movedThere were enmities in the past 

The primary objective ol Chinese relations in the near However, Dr. Moody said that into orbits of their own.
and there are differences today,
. President Nixon's trip to China is future. He doubted that the U.S. to his knowledge the Chinese do By the time Nixon had spoken
Nixon asserted, but the "common 
to "normalize relations between would give diplomatic not have a student exchange the magic word "friendship," at
interests" of the moment tran­
the United States and Communist recognition to the Communist program with any non­the end of his toast, everyone had 
scend everything else. Using the
China," according to Dr. Peter Chinese as an immediate result Communist countries and learned the routine. Powerful
most vivid image of Chinese
Moody of the Government of the talks, citing the official establishing any such program spotlights encouraged the
revolutionary history, the
Department. U.S. position as "Recognition of with the U.S. is doubtful. cameras forward and the table­
President proposed a "long
Dr. Moody, who did his doc­Communist China at this time is When asked what benefits hopping began as if on signal. The 
march" on different roads to the
toral research at Yale University out of the question." would President Nixon's trip army band, which had already
common goal of a "structure of
on China and served as a Foreign Regarding trade agreements have for the Communist Chinese, drawn applause for "Home on the
peace."
Service officer in Taiwan, stated resulting from the Nixon visit, Dr. Moody stated that it was "the Range" during the spongy
He defined this as a structure in 
that Presidnet Nixon's trip will Dr. Moody doubted that any climax of their diplomacy." The bamboo shoots and P.l!"ll-White
which all nations would deter­
hopefully ''tone down the major trading between the two fact,that the President of the consumme, now rendered an 
mine their own form of govern­
automatic hostility that exists nations would take place. United States went to China to original and sweet version of 
ment without interference--­
between the two nations." "Perhaps the Chinese might speak with Mao-Tse Tung and "America" that went on and on 
perhaps intending an allusion to
As to speculating on the out­purchase some fancy machinery Chou-En Lai, contains tremen­and on while the principals
Vietnam, but definitely not
come of the President's talks such as computers and then copy dous propaganda value for the smiled, clinked, milled and 
with the Chinese leaders, Dr. them," but he said that even this Chinese, perhaps helping to (continued on page 8) 
Moody cautioned against ex­would be done on an extremely counter Russian influence within 
pecting dramatic breakthroughs. small scale. He also foresaw an the Communist bloc. 
He feels that one week of high equally small importing of Dr. Moody held little hope that 
level talks would not be enough Chinese goods by the U.S. President Nixon's visit would 
time to work out thP details of any In the area of travel and gain Chinese assistance in ending
major policy changes or mutual cultural exchange, Dr. Moody the Vietnam war. He waid that 
agreements. However, it does lay was hopeful that something Russia possessed greater in­
the foundation for more serious positive in this area might come fluence with Hanoi at this time 
discussions between the U.S. and out of the President's trip. If due to large supply shipments.
China. some sort of exchange program China is presently more con­
In regards to the subjects that is worked out, it would probably cerned with the growing Soviet 
President Nixon will discuss with resemble the program that influence in Asia than with the 
Chinese leaders, Dr. Moody was currently exists with the U.S. and presence of the Unites States in 
reluctant to predict any Russia, with the Bolshoi Ballet South Vietnam. 
significant changes in U.S.-coming to the U.S. 
~-----------------------­
Cultural Arts Commission's 
Performing Arts Series 
presents 
Brewster McCloud 
Wednesday, Feb. 23, 7:30 & 9:30 
tngineering Auditorium 
Admission $1.00 PAS Patrons {yellow card) FREE 

Page .4 THE OBSERVER 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
F.ditor-ln-Chlef, Glen S. Corso AulalaaiEdltor 
Assistant Editor All successful newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend 
Advertising Manager 
Business Manager anyoneor anything if they can help
Jim. Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

B u:o;iness: 283-74 71 News: 283-1715 





no small effort 
Notre Dame has finally established a long range endowment fund to finance minority scholarships. Bowl games or not, it's about time. Schools like the University of Michigan (in 1970) went through weeks of turmoil to gain essentially the same concession---a substantial com­mitment by the administration to improve minority enrollment. At U. of 
M. this took the form of a guarantee of 10 percent enrollment. Here the commitment comes in the form of dedicating 25 percent of all scholarship funds to non-athlete minority students. Anyway you look at it, this is no small effort. 
The principle questions demanding further analysis are the growth potential of the $3 million endowment and, as Carl Ellison pointed out, the recruitment of minority women. The growth question is important because even though 25 percent is a significant portion of scholarship funds, it is obvious that the high per capita financial aid rate of minority students makes the $200,000 insufficient. At $2500 per student only 80 minority students can be aided with all the endowment money and the additional awards. 
If the University has invested in low risk municipal and government bonds, which seems reasonable, it can expect an annual return of eight to eight and a half percent. By deducting $150,000 from the fund each year to pay the scholarships, the growth rate of the endowment becomes about three and a half percent. While there is certainly nothing magical about a $6 million scholarship endowment, it is obvious that at this rate of growth substantial additional contributions will have to appear before the fund can be doubled. Now, the finances become very messy indeed because the rising cost problem facing every aspect of the University budget would inevitably wear away at the value of each scholarship financed through the fund. This means we would have inflation eating away at the other end of that three and a half percent growth. 
The new endowment is quite substantial but it is no rosegarden. We should not be lulled into believing that now that ND has a self­perpetuating minority scholarship fund, all our minority recruitment problems are over. Ellison makes a valid point about the next direction these concerns must take. While we disagree with several of his recommendations, namely transfering D grades and waiving the 60 hour residency requirement, we realize that it's going to take one hell of an effort to get minority women to come to Notre Dame of St. Mary's--­almost as great an effort as was required to raise the black male enrollment to three percent. But something on the order of a wide Recruitment Action Program (RAP) devoted exclusively to minority females is obviously needed. 
Fortunately the effects of such a program are cumulative. It won't be nearly as hard in the second, third or fourth Y¥r to double or triple minority female enrollment if some kind of massive first year effort is made. We think the incoming student government and RAP should take the initiative. Almost all the alumni resistance which has characterized past recruitments could be neutralized next year by pointing to the en­dowment while its establishment is fresh. Delaying the drive would serve no useful purpose at all; it would only prove that quite mistakenly we view the new endowment as an end rather than anew stimulus to build a better community. 
Tuesday, February 22, 1972 

T.C. Treanor·======================================================================================================= 
One Weekend Later 
:::::===================================:==~-=======:The New Season Begins 
Three members of the Notre Dame Student Body have graciously volunteered to help me write my column today, and I would be less than a gentleman if I were to turn them down. Cast your eyes, then, to today's letters page <page six) and gaze at the submissions of the rt. hon's. Marty Siemian, John Astuno, and John McCarthy, as I call a Column Time Out. 
Column Time Out 
Finished? Then let us return to reality. 
Column Time In 

Since these letters are the first public responses to the campaign, they dese~ve some careful, systematic analysis. The last shall be first, and the first last, as always. 
The hon. Mr. McCarthy, if we can boil him down to a few words, contends that the Observer thinks Bob Higgins is an Important Man and thus worthy of front-page in-depth coverage, but that Chuck Luken is an unimportant man and thus worthy only of "mockery." 
This of course is a potent charge and might be left unchallanged if no one had ever invented the ruler. But, alas, the multi-inched instrument is with us today and all of Mr. McCarthy's claims fly out the window. When Bob Higgins announced his candidacy he received 14.25 column inches of newspace. When Mr. Luken announced, he received 19.75 column inches, el~ven and a half of them on the front page. He had to share his front page place with a major news story, but I suspect not even Mr. McCarthy would put St. Mary's budget on page six. "Minor" candidate or not, Senator Luken has gotten even coverage with everybody else, and as far as I am able to ascertain, there is no plot afoot to throttle his campaigning voice now. 
The charges of Mr. Astuno are considerably more reasonable but unfortunately not one whit less wrongheaded. What he fails to perceive is that the way a student wins an election on this campus is to garner all the hall presidents on his side, whisperto them slyly; get all those hall presidents to gather section leaders to their side, whisper to them slyly, and thus spread his influence as through a pyramid. This has been the standard successful technique through at least the last three SBP races, and all other aspects to the campaign are peripheral and, indeed, largely mythical. If he can't take my word for it, he ought to ask the next ten people he sees what Floyd Kezele's platform is. Or Bob Higgins's. Or, for that matter, Chuck Luken's. 
Of Mr. Siemian's charges I have not much to say. Neither my "informed sources" nor· I have any special interest to protect; that's one of the reasons I can trust those sources. Mr Siemian claimed press of duty kept him out of the race, but his predecessor as St. Ed's hall president could find time to manage Barkett's campaign and his predecessor once removed could find time to run with Dave Krashna. The "horse's mouth," as Mr. Siemian so modestly refers to himself ,is a sort of limited source; it usually conceals some hay somewhere and that tends to garble the words. 
On to more serious stuff: 
The campaign of OmbudsmanPaul Dzeidzic has has suddenly found itself on a steady footing; he's getting Men In Every Hall and he claims he had No Secrets. The Higgins people have found themselves suddenly discommoded; they go to talk to people they want to help them and find that the Ombudsman's men have already seen them. Dzeidzic, unlike Kezele, has support in both quads, and if he can split the Towers vote with SLC Vice-Chairman he has got himself a runoff. 
It's no secret that the cerebra of Higgin's campaign would rather face Kezele in a runoff that Dzeidzic. SBP Barkett has sworn strict neutrality in face of a Higgins-Dzeidzic conflagration, but he would come out with both guns blazing if Kezele made the runoff. Mooney's people, in turn, would come out for whoever faced Higgins; their primary business will be to knock ·off the Hall Life Commissioner. Dzeidzic will introduce some majorconstitutional reform on Wed­lllesday, the first day of campaigning; if he performs the unlikely feat of riling people up on the issues he's golden. 
The weekend's biggest ND political event: The Gary Caruos an­nouncement. He came out flaming; but his announcement was the best of the camping; he pledges to "tell the truth" and the Kezele and Dzeidzic brain trust surely hope it's the Truth About Higgins. There is very little love lost between Higgins and the Co-Ex dining hall com­missioner; if Caruso calls him names it might hurt Caruso and it might hurt Higgins but it won'd hurt Dzeidzic or Kezele. 
Watch for Joe Schlosser's campaign. It'll be a riot... 
More important announcements later. 
::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:~:;:;:~:~:!:::!:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:~:~:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~: 
Due to a production err()r in the For What It's Worth column, which ran Monday, the implication that SBP candidate Chuck Luken and the Greeker are the same person might be drawn. This is not true. Luken is a serious candidate, whereas the Greeker is only a joker. 
Don Ruane Campus Editor 


THE OBSERVER 
CORSO'S HEROES: 
Pictureman: Bob HughesNite Editor: Anthony Abowd 
Typists: Diane Chermside, Dan Rock, Pat Kenney, Ann Assistant Nite Eds: george lund, Art Esposito Dreucker, Debbie Gras layout: Nic Catrambone 
Nite Controller: Joe Wilkowski (not on his own accord)Headlines: Chris Sullivan Rebels without a cause: TC Treanor, Jerry Lutkus, Jim Headliner: Dandy Don Donaldson, Dave Fromm, Anne Conway, Stan the Man,Early Shift: John Abowd Jim McDermott (au revoir). Roger "Butchie" Burrell,Day Editor: Redman 
Jack Kelly 
News Editor: Jerry lutkus 1. thanx for the pix, gerry Art Editor: Mike Murphy 2. marguerite---here's to Chicago! Features Editor: T.J. Clinton 3. Dianne, how about the spring festival? Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 4. BADIN LIVES!!! 
s. PONY---good luck on your case 
Tuesday, February 22, 1972 THE· OBSERVER Page 5 

John Barkett 
A letter to the editor 
Dear Glen: 
I have had many thoughts on The Ob­sf'rvf'r the last few months. Your editorial in the Wednesday, February 16th edition, has provided the spark to share them with you and the entire community. 
The Observer is the only campus newspaper. In view of this fact, it seems to me The Observf'r has a tremendous responsibility to the community to present the news in a fair and comprehensive manner. I think you and your staff have tried to do that but I also believe you have not approached a consistent level of success in this regard. 
Your editorial page is another story entirely. I have always maintained that the best way to write an editorial is to present a logical, concise, and precise piece designed to appeal to the reasonable instincts of any reader. When you present the view you are arguing against, you demonstrate clearly why it is a poor one. When you are arguing for a particular point of view, you demonstrate clearly why it is a good one. And to maximize your effect, you combine both views in one editorial and show your readers how much superior one is to another. The trick is, of course, to do that without raising the question of credibility because of the manner in which you present your argument. 
Your style of editorializing differs radically from the one I propose above. You make numerous generalizations and hardly ever base your arguments on any facts. You purposely exclude convincing data contrary to your position. In short, you present an extremely slanted view ­the very "rhetoric" you spoke of in Wednesday's editorial. 
The "Letters to the editor" column is a response to your editorials, at times, but they do not receive the bold print coverage you give your demagoguery. 
Let me take Wednesday's editorial as an example. You made vague references to what our administration had done in of­fice. No one bothered to corroborate what you said or even to guarantee that we had done nothing more than establish a "a co­ex dining plan," which by the way, was begun by last year's administration, not this year's. To quote you further: 
"To say that the John Barkett ad­ministration has done little that is worthy of merit, is close to the absolute truth, if there ever was such a thing. 
This past year has seen a student government bureaucracy do little. This past year has seen the student government stand aside, quietly, while student rights were threatened and while the unification nearly dissolved." 
But look what you failed to mention and, in doing so, how you gave a totally erroneous picture of our year in office. 
You didn't even allude to our community service program, the brochure "You've Got a Friend" or our recent one asking interested students to return a card is interested in working in any one of 17 programs described. Over 60 responses have been received. You left out the Charity Basketball Game which had over 75 students involved in it and which resulted in 200 food baskets for over 1000 people at Thanksgiving. You didn't list the volunteer programs that have been initiated this year through Dave Lah, like the Big Sister, Juvenile Probation Officer, Family and Children Center programs. You didn't mention that it was from student government that The Observer got the information on Camile Geurs who desperately needed blood. I suggested the idea of you people running a blood drive because I thought you could use the favorable publicity. 
You neglected the "South Bend in a Nutshell" magazine. And the $10,000.00 we have back to the halls. 
You failed to inform your readers that lnPHIG came out of student government. And that the Voters Registration Drive came out of student government. And that a Day Care Center came to be with much effort from student government. These three projects alone have created an ex­citing increase in student involvement outside the classroom. 
You didn't mention that our Om­budsman staff has handled over 900 phone calls in the last nine months. You excluded the fact that a legal aid service has been started for off campus students. 

You didn't say that the Senators were elected by the first of October, that the Finance Committee Hearings were the smoothest ever, that the budget passed the Senate in ont> night, that the "Grant Agreement" we proposed was accepted and guarantees an accounting of all funds outside of student government and student union for the first time. 
And is not a survey of student life im­portant? And is not a study on the im­provement of social and recreational facilities in the residence halls and the La Fortune Student Center being conducted? Are those inconseQuential to vou? 
Does not the Course Evaluation booklet serve the student body? Ifso, and I believe it does, the $800 we found (most of it from outside sources) to fund the first semester edition surely merits your consideration. 
Did we not pledge to return to the halls to speak? I have been to 12 thus far and my letters of August 25, September 28, and October 7 to the hall presidents expressly requested invitations to speak in the halls. That's not unsimilar to my offer to The Observer to participate in any training program for new reporters, particularly freshmen, or my offer to help proofread copy for you. I have yet to be asked to help. Might I add that Orlando has spoken in halls and that all twenty halls have been reached at least once this year. 
You neglected to mention the creation of the Security Advisory Board. You neglected to mention the work with hall judicial board chairmen by our staff. You neglected to mention that all twenty halls had Freshmen Orientation programs this year. 
Shall I go on? I can very easily by just describing the little services we provide or the small things we have done for people very quietly. I can very easily by telling you about the Student Union and all the spectacular things they have done this year. But I think I've proved my point. 
Your editorial continues by calling our administration a "failure." No student government can be a failure, Glen, just as no student newspaper can be a failure. The fact that one shows up to work every day without financial or academic recompense is a success in itself. And what I have said above does not spell failure to me. 
You spoke about me being quiet during the year, Glen. I must admit that I am not as skilled as The Observer in "flaming" ­but I don't believe your accusation is a just one. There are many ways to speak out, and I chose what I thought to be the most productive ways for the student body. The ways I chose did not give me public ac­claim as a great orator. Nor did they provide a false or fabricated platform as has happened here in the past. But I think you are refering to two specific issues ­although your editorial is cloudy in this regard. 
The first is parietal hours. We helped in the fight against sanctions and they were dropped. We helped to re-propose the parietals legislation of last spring ­Orlando Rodriguez served on the Hall Life Committee which handled it -and the Student Life Council approved it. We spoke to the Trustees and pushed very hard for acceptance of the SLC recom­mendations. The Board spent 5 hours discussing our presentation in, what you could easily discover, was the most heated and divisive question the Board has ever debated. It failed when it came to a vote, but I counted the meeting as very suc­cessful. 
But then what? Should we have fought or should we have let things ride? There were many sickening events that occurred in hall life last spring that hurt the "student cause," if I can call it that. Many people were tired of the issue. Some resident assistants, rectors, hall presidents and other students suggested to me to forget the whole affair. I had to weigh the pros and cons of my action with the whole University and our future programs in mind. I could not afford the luxury of being a simple student with no title and no Observer to face every day. And I decided to let it ride and concentrate on what I considered more important things. . 
Student power is a tool that must be used carefully and prudently, Glen. One does not speak out "against" someone because of tradition. I certainly was not quiet on parietal hours, nor was I that vociferous. But I used my best judgment in view of the circumstances I was aware of and the knowledge I possessed. 
The other issue was the disunification. And, as I've said time and time again, I felt we could start negotiations again if we made sure the women received the spotlight. I didn't want to change the focus or muddy the waters. I offered as much personal advice to the St. Mary's student leaders as I could and I did what I did to promote unification. If you disagree with my tactics, that's fine. All I can point to is that unification talks have be~un a~ain. 
Might I add here, too, Glen, that student power is an anomaly if the burning issue is not existent. When students feel stongly enough about an issue, they will respond. I stayed away from the game of creating issues because not only is it terribly time­consuming but also it is frighteningly fruitless. I guess it is all a question of priorities. 
Might I add, further, that the personal response to my handling of the issue above was split. 
This was a quiet year. Your editorials seem to say that pejoratively. To paraphrase a local professor, "What's a matter with a quiet year?" Is noise your criterion for success? 
And how can you call for SBP candidates who will "speak out against the Ad­ministration" without saying what the issues are that they can speak out against and why they should? Can not alternative methods of speaking out be more effective than front page bargaining? I think so and I resent the implication that I didn't speak out in the best "interests of the students." 
Is cooperation and communication distasteful to you? Do disagreements dissolve the goal of bettering Notre Dame? 
Is stirring up "trouble" in the interest of all students? 
I'm not saying that the Administration is perfect, Glen. I am dissatisfied with some of its members and I have made that dissatisfact.ion known, not publicly, because I didn't have to and because I believe we are here to help each other grow and not cut each other down (unless the latter results in the former, but I have not faced that occasion much). 
The secrecy surrounding our financial affairs sickens me as much as it does you. But screaming will not solve that problem. The bookstore and the Athletic and Con­vocation Center-Social Commission squabble are examples of uncalled for and unfair stubborness and fear. 
There have been many errors in the Student Affairs area at Notre Dame but it appears the commitment to correct those errors has been made. 
Unification has been clouded in secrecy, but one does not have to be a Sherlock Holmes to discern the positions of both schools and the problems resulting from those positions. 
We have made great inroads in opening up this community. But when one deals with attitudes and habits, change takes time. It can't be forced on anyone because that causes retrenchment and more barriers. 
We have much further to go in opening up this community not only on an ad­ministrative level but also on student, faculty, staff, and alumni levels. My Obsf.'rver articles of last semester tried to point this out. Perhaps I should have spent more time articulating my views that people are lonely around here, that students selfishly ask for rights without carrying out responsibilities, that honor is a burning need at Notre Dame, that learning requires suffering and living requires sacrifice and too many of us have forgotten both. 
Perhaps The Observer should look at these thoughts also instead of attacking a college president so viciously or stating the Search Committee for a Vice President for Student Affairs was instructed by the Provost to find a "yes" man for the job. I sit on that committee, by the way. You might want to consider asking me how true that claim is before you decide to make it again. 
In conclusion, Glen, let me say two tl1ings. First, I took no personal offense by the editorial in Wednesday's paper, as hard as that may be to believe. But many of the poeple that work with us did and you should keep in mind that when you attack me you attack a group of dedicated in­dividuals who care only about serving students and decided to serve students with me. 
Secondly, I know you'II be out of office soon and I want to congratulate you on your overall performance. You've been a stabilizing influence on The Observer. And many people don't realize the work required to put out a daily newspaper. I can't remember leaving my office at night before your staff once in my whole term of office and I hit 3 am quite often. That's a real credit to you, Glen, to find people with that dedication. 
Thanks, too, for cooperation we received from you and your staff on so many oc­casions this year. 
A simple editorial has evoked this lengthy response. I hope what I have said has created a better understanding bet­ween both of us and particularly a better picture to the entire University com­munity. 
Yours in peace and friendship, John Barkett Student Body President 
Page 6 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, February 22, 1972 
Letters to the Editor ............. . 
Misrepresentation 
Editor: 
Once again T.C. Treanor and The Observer have misrepresented and perverted a person's ideas and his stand. Treanor's article on the up­coming SBP campaign-"At the conclusion of springtraining"­has done just that to me. A clarification is indeed necessary. 
First of all, Bob Higgins and Ron Pogge are my andidates in the election. I kbow that when elected they will do a fantastic job for the students on both cam­puses. I have known them both through the Hall President's Council and have seen their action, knowledge, and concern on behalf of the student body. I am pleased with what I have seen, and therefore have given my support to them and them alone. 
Secondly, I have my own reasons for supporting them and at the same time not taking an active role in their campaign. They are personal reasons. For example, I do not feel that I have the time for active campaigning. My role as a hall president still is office is a sufficient source of satisfaction and activity to keep me busy. It would not be fair to the men in my hall for me to get involved vigorously with any one other than those in my hall. Between studies and this job I have taxed myself enough. To do so any further would be un­wise. 
Finally, my reasons are not because I was manuevered. I am not one to be manuevered. I feel that I am capable of making my own decisions. Although I try to listen and garner information about a position, condition, or candidate, I still decide for myself. I am not--nor will I leave myself open to--being manuevered or pressured. I take it as a personal insult that Treanor could and ould infer that this "is ttie case. Treanor's "reliable sources" as he callsthem too should be questioned. What's wrong with the horse's mouth, T.C.? In writing a story or a paper one must get all the angles. A story cannot be perpetrated. This is the case in Treanor's story of Feb. 18. Marty Siemian President, St. Ed's 
Mare~ 
Editor, 
It has always been my con­tention that elections are a time when people evaluate issues. Unfortunately, the Observer seems to think elections are the time where one is to evaluate the "machinery" behind the can­didates. This makes the Ob­server's coverage unfair to the candidates and, above all, to the students. 
Let's face it, Chuck Luken and 
Walt Spak do not have a Mayor­
Daley-like organization behind 
them. Luken and Spak, as the 
Observer so clearly emphasises, 
even lack a bonafide campaign 
manager. The Observer seems to 
believe that if one is to be a 
"serious candidate" the first 
priority is an 
organizationcomplete with 
supporters of exalted pooh-bah 
fame. From the Observer one is 
led to believe that it doesn't 
matter whatthe candidates have 
to say. After. all, it's who is 
supporting them, isn't it? 
Luken and Spak scurpulously 
lack the endorsements of the 
student government dignitaries 
and other "great leaders" of 
campus renown. What is 
significant about their campaign, 
however, is that it attempts to was made, "the United States has point out the absurdity of this all not itself been party to or bound too pervasive poo-bah mentality. by the decisions taken by the Notre Dame, much 'to tfie Conference.' " discredit of the present student One should not accuse another representatives, doesn't need country of "refusing to uphold the super-structures to deal with six Geneva convention" if one does thousand undergraduates. Notre not uphold it oneself. Dame doesn't need glorified S e c o n d l y , i f t h e s e student leaders, complete with humanitarians are concerned high-sounding titles, that do over treatment of POW's, nothing. perhaps they should broaden 
The Observer, with its assumed their base to include those POW's political clairvoyance, predicts held by American and South that with a little Luken and Spak Vietnamese forces. Do the Tiger will receive "8-10 per cent of the Cages treat prisoners? Has the vote." I am convinced that the U.S. or South Vietnam published students will listen to all the lists of North Vietnamese and canqidates; not on the basis of VietCong POW's? Do they have 
the dmdidates' "machines," but channels of communication to rather what they stand for. I their relatives? hope in the future the Observer There is ample proof and considers the candidates before documentation from American assess the organizations behind media, ranging from old Life them. · magazine photographs to on-the-. Sincerely, spot testomony, that South John J. Astuno, Jr. Vietnam and American soldiers 
have tortured and murdered US, Hanoi, and th.e countless POW's. The u.s. should 
at least wash the blood off its 
Geneva convention hands before it trots out the tear­jerkers about how American POW's have to eat rice instead of 
Editor: apple pie and steaks. 
Concerning an article in your And finally, may I be allowed to paper of Feb. 16, "Bracelets say that the courageous action ofrecall POW's," I would like to to the Student Senate inmake several comments: passing,withFirst, the statement that those only two dissenting votes, thisin this bracelet program are ROTC program is illustrative of"concerned over their <Hanoi's) the myopic chauvinism whichrefusal to uphold the Geneva permeates this country. Close toConvention which they ratified in 1,000,000 Asian ·.human beings1957" is typical of the hypocrisy have died since we decided toand double-think which establish­save them from communism, and ment pols and dupes indulge in. 
we are withdrawing only because This hypocritical appeal to in­50,000 of our corn-fed andternatonal law and order con­obedient sons have died. Manyveniently neglects to mention thousands of human beings have that the U.S. only abides by in­been tortured and murderedternational agreements of its own after we captured them, and ourmaking. A standard history only concern is for 1,700 of ourtextbook, The Far East In The good old boys.
Modern· World, Revised ed., 
In conclusion, I would like toMichael and Taylor, Holt, applaud the emotion generatedRineheart and Winston Inc, p. 
by the ROTC people in their holy792, discusses the Geneva Con­children's crusade to free theirvention of 1954 which called for brothers, and I look forward tofree elections in North and South that day when they and all theirs Vietnam to re-unite the country ­withdraw from Asia, leaving"The United States as behind advisers, equipment, andrepresented only by its Under money to prop up a corruptSecretary of State and did not regime which will fall despitetake part in the Conference Nixon's "Vietnamization" at­Declaration or in the agreements tempts to support it with yellowwhich were con-corpses instead of white.
cluded ... President Eisenhower Michael Caseystated on July 21, 1954, the same Off-campus graduate studentday that the Geneva Declaration 



SMC Elections 
Deadline for nomination to following positions 
SBP SBVP Academic Affairs 
Commissioner Student Affairs Commissioner Midnight, Tuesday Feb. 22 Bring to Student Gov't Office between 1-4 pm 
this afternoon or call John Goal of 1 07 6 or 40 17 
Luken slfg1lted 
Editor: 
With the advent of SBP elec­tions, the role of the Observer is greatly enlarged due to the fact that it alone reaches more of the students than any other form of communication. It, therefore, 
has an added responsibility to present fair, unbiased reporting of campaign news. For myself and many other readers, the Observer has failed. 
A critical point is the Ob­server's handling of the an­nouncement of two candidates for the SBP office. In the Thursday edition of the Observer a one column mockery of the an­nouncement of Chuck Luken appearect, whereas Bob Higgins received a full page -three column article. The Observer admitted to the fact that Luken had said a good deal more but he received one-third the space. 
Those at the ,Observer know well the influence they possess and to themisfortuneof the Notre Dame community this influence has been misused. As the sole newspaper on campus, the Ob­server is in a position to print opinionated articles and editorils, and so I hope the readers of this newspaper realize that it does not represent the ideas of the entire community. This community is entitled to an equal, fair presentation of the news, whether campus or not. I would like to see those few who control the Ob­server attain some responsibility and journalistic ethics in their further endeavors in newspaper reporting. 
Bearing in mind the harm the Observer may have already caused, what will the newspaper do when official campaigning begins? John McCarthy 
-verses to Retch. By"' 
Editor: 

In regard to the little poetic gems about the lottery that you've been printing of late-­particularly 'The Night Before the Lottery' (or whatever it was) printed on the day after and the little hound that you offered Wednesday:-I think that I shall never see a poem about the lot­tery that couldn't have been written by some bean-head back in junor high. I mean, I've seen bad poetry, and I've seen bad poetry, but these little Verses to Retch By are really wretched. 
Next time you consider feeding 

us some of this doggerel kindly 
remember that we're usually 
trying to eat a meal when we read 
the stuff. The food is quite suf­
ficient to make us sick; it doesn't 
need any help. 
--Absolutely Nauseated 

BEST BANDS IN TOWN -Two Bands a night -Dancing 6 nights a week (closed Monday.) -No cover on Tues., Wed., Thurs. -Open till 2 a.m. "One stop entertainment center" 

Cocktail Lounge Bowling Billiards 
Sf.u/a's fi;te C/u' 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD 
NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 

616/683-4350 

friday, feb. 25 at 8:00 pm Ia fortune ballroom $1.00 admission 
Tuesday, February 22. 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
Digger faces old Fordham five 
by "Lefty'_' Ruschmann Both teams are similar in several respects. Both the Irish 
Emotions may call the tune of and Rams are young squads;tonight's Notre Dame-Fordham Fordham normally starts five basketball contest. 
underclassmen. Height is a 
Digger Phelps, who last year problem for Fordham, too, as 
coached the Rams to a 26-3 their tallest starter is 6'6". 
record and an NCAA tourney bid, Wissel's chief defensive weapon 
will be out to prove he has not lost is the press, which is based on 
the winning touch <despite his 6-what "Digger" taught at For­
15 record>. Fordham, however, dham last year. 
has designs of its own, which Wissel relies on a wide-open 
include an NIT post-season bid. offense to overcome his team's 
The Rose Hill Rams, 14-7 this height problem. So far, it has 
year, are coming off a weekend worked, as the Rams have been 
victory over Rutgers, in a per­outrebounding their opposition. 
formance characterized by their The board work is well-balanced, 
new coach, Hal Wissel, as "very with Bart Woytowicz leading all 
sharp." rebounders, pulling down an 
Jim Donaldson==================================::::::::::================================================== 

The Irish Eye 
;:::::::=:=:=:::::·G,otnments on the Chones Case 
Certainly, the purists and moralists who abound in the world of sport 
will say that Jim Chones treated Marquette shabbily by signing a 
lucrative contract with the New York Nets of the American Basketball 
Association last week. 
They will claim that Chones had a moral obligation to, at the very 
h•ast. rinish the season and give his teammates, coach and school a 
dtanre at tht"ir Cirst NCAA basketball championship. It's easy enough 
£or C'hones' detractors to see things that way, especially since their 
vision isn't blurred by someone waving 1.5 million dollars in their 
ra(·es. 
Recalling that Judas betrayed Christ for 30 pieces of silver, it seems 
absurd to criticize Jim Chones for selling Marquette down the river for 
a stack of greenbacks that towers over even his 6-11" frame. 
Then• was little doubt in Milwaukee that Chones was waiting for the 
right pro offer to come along, although it was thought he would refrain 
£rom signing until arter the season ended. 
When the Warriors visited Notre Dame three weeks ago, Chones hinted broadly that he'd be willing to sign a pro contract but, again, he left the impression that he'd wait until the conclusion of the NCAA tourney. 
But colll'ge ball has held little excitement or late for the big guy and 
ht• was anxious to display his talents among better competition and for 
n·turns more tangible than applause and a sheepskin. 
"I have pride and ability," Chones was quoted as saying last week, "hut I can't show it because of fouls. When I get bumped and bump back. I get childish calls. Are the refs watching me because of my name? I know I can beat anybody one-on-one, and block shots like nobody has blocked them. But I never get the chance. I can't take any more of this. All I want is out." So he got out, carrying his money bags with him. 
Explaining why he signed his pro contract with only a few weeks left in thl' St'ason, {'hones commented, "My father's dead and there are rive younger children. They depend on me a lot .. If I didn't sign and I'd break a lf'g or die tomorrow, they'd have nothing." 
rhones' coach, AI McGuire, who as a boy, knew what it was like to be without money, refused to criticize his star for turning professional. 
"PPrsonally. I just say to myself that he broke his leg," McGuire said. "The team will have to go on without him. We're a good club. i\11 Wt''ve done is lost eight inches." 
"For our team, it's a little bit unfortunate, but the opportunity for Jim probably was great. I don't like the timing, but what he did, he did, and I don't know his problems. A million and a half is a heck of a lot of money to turn down just to play a few more games." 
TIU' loss of ('hones, who was averaging 20.9 points and II rebounds a game. will probably leave UCLA a leg up on second-ranked Marqnl'ttt• in thl' qnl'st for national honors. At least the Bruins are t•ight indU's ahead of the Warriors. 
Besides the immediate detrimental effect Chones' signing will have on Marquette, there is the question of how the college game as a whole will react to. and survive, the raiding of its ranks by the wealthy pros. 
It is one of thf' basic tenets or Amt'rican culture to "make a buck while you l'an". A college basketball player who doesn't take ad­\"antagt• of thf' bidding war between the rival ABA and NBA has got to IH' Vl'ry honorable or very rich. 
Sports these days is big business, backed by people with big money. Gone forever are ball clubs like the Philadelphia Athletics, owned and operated by Connie Mack, who made his living solely from baseball. When the A's were doing poorly and made a trade with another team, it was an unwritten rule that the other club would throw in some cash, along with the player in question, for the general upkeep of the A's. 
Wlwn a hall l"lub finishes in thf' red in thf' modl'rn era. the owner can ortt•n find ways to write off the loss on his tax return. 
Tht• ABA is ba(·ked by people willing to spend money, lots of it, to t•slablish thf'ir league. just as the "upstart" American Football L(•agu(• was tl•n yt"a1·s ago. Thf' NBA knows this and merger is im­ntin(•nt. As a n•sult. today's l'ollegiate cagers ought to sign while the Jll"i(•t•s an• high bPcause, once the leagues merge, their value will be drastieally rt'ducl'd. And after the merger, the leagues will, most likl'ly. agrl'e not to draft a promising collegian until his class has graduatl'd. Pt"ace will be restored on the hardwood and players will again br fighting the owners for every penny. 
So Jim Chones, who grew up modestly in Racine, Wisconsin, has made it big in his chosen field, in the true American tradition. Others are sure to follow Chones 'action, just as some like Julius Erving and Howard Porter, preceded him. And at least Chones, unlike Porter, announced his signing and avoided another fiasco such as that which surrounded the Villanova star's clandestine dealings that cost his team a runner-up spot in the NCAA tourney last year. 
Noting this rivalry between the junior. 
two clubs, Coach WisselThe Rams, building up a keen remarked, "This game won't berivalry with Notre Dame, hope to easy. We're going to face a tough,even up the all-time record at two improving ballclub. I have greatgames apiece. Last year, the respect for <Digger) Phelps, he'sRams pulled a 94-88 upset of the done a great job at Notre Dame."
Irish before a capacity crowd at Madison Square Garden. 
Commenting on the loss of 





OBSERVER 
SPORTS 

Semerad seeks Gold Gloves title 
average of 10 per game. 

Fordham will be without the services of junior center George Zambetti tonight. The 6-5 New Yorker aggravated an old knee injury in the Rutgers game, and will be replaced by a senior reserve, 6-4 Tom Sullivan. A New York City native, Sullivan has averaged 11.1 ppg in his sixth­man slot. 
Zambetti 's injury will nec­essitate moving star guard Ken Charles to forward. Charles, a 6-2 junior from Brooklyn, is the Rams' scoring leader at 19.4 ppg, as well as one of Fordham's top rebounders. Junior Bart Woytowicz occupies the other forward positien. The 6-6 junior from Fort Lee, N.J., in addition to leading all Ram rebounders, is also good for 15.6 points per game. 
Fordham has an adequate pair of guards to replace the departed Mainor and Yelverton. Tom Pipich, a 6-footer from Pitt­sburgh, will probably take over as floor leader. He has averaged about eight points per game. His running mate in the backcourt is 6-3 sophomore Frank Heyward, another Brooklynite. Heyward has averaged seven ppg. this season. Sub Wendell Holland, a sophomore guard, should see a good deal of action, as will reserve Paul Griswold, a 6-8 Dlggf'r Phelps will be looking at some ol his old players when the Irish mel't Fordham tonight at 8 o'clock in the ACC. 
George Zambetti, Wissel said, 
"He's typified the play of our 
team this season. He's a fighter, 
a winner." Game time tonight is 8:00p.m. Preceding the main event, Notre Dame's freshmen will entertain 
Purdue at 5:45. 

WCHA Standings 
.... 
W L Pta GF GA Left Wisconsin ........... 18 6 44 lie 73 12 Denver .............. 16 8 44 119 89 12 Michigan Stale ....... 14 10 40 104 78 8 North Dakota ....... 15 9 38 115 t3 8 Minn.-Duluth ........ 13 II 38 101 99 8 Michigan Tech ...... 10 12 28 103 104 8 Michigan ............ 10 14 24 92 141 12 Colorado CoUege. . . . 9 15 24 114 134 8 Notre Dame. . . . . . . . . 7 15 22 110 104 8 MiMesota . . . . . . . . . . . 8 18 12 70 118 12 
WEEKEND RESVLTS 
Denver J-4, Notre Dame 2·3 Wisconsin :.-4. Michigan 1·8 Minnesota 2-6, Colorado Collegl' 11-3 North Dakota 10.5, Michigan Tech 4-3 Michigan State 6-5, Minn.·Duluth 1·1 
by Vic Dorr 

In the case of an athlete like Larry Semerad, appearances are often deceiving. The smallish junior from Baltimore, Md., stands 5-8--maybe 5-9--and weighs but 123 pounds. 
But despite his size--or lack of it--Larry Semerad is an athlete, and a good one. He is a boxer, and figures to be the main con­tender for honors in his weight class when Notre Dame's annual Bengal Bouts get underway in mid-March. 
Semerad will have received plenty of in-the-ring training before the Irish bouts open, though, because he is currently in the thick of the Golden Gloves competition in Chicago. 
Larry has fought three Chicago opponents so far, and has scored one knock-out and three TKO's. He is scheduled to go again on March 3rd, when he will meet the city's northside champion for the title in the novice 118 lb. class. 
"My nexr fight will be in the Northwest Armory," Semerad said, "but I don't know who it will be against, because the northside eliminations haven't been completed yet. If I'm able to win this next fight, I may qualify for the regional bouts in Minnesota." 
Semerad began his climb to the championship match last Tuesday, when he stopped Robert DiSpencil on a TKO at 1:28 of the second round of their three-round bout. "I caught him with a right uppercut," said Semerad. "He never hit the ground, but I know he was stunned." 
The following night, the 16th, Semerad fought twice. He kayoed Bob Herman at 1:28 of the second round with a solid left jab, and then captured the southside title by earning a TKO against Terry Morrison 28 seconds into the third round of their match. 
"The referee had to stop it," remembered Semerad. "I caught him <Morrison) against the ropes with a combination of hooks and uppercuts. 
"There shouldn't be a conflict between the Bengals here and the matches in Minnesota," he continued, "but if there is I'll fight here." 
Larry has good reason for wanting to compete at Notre Dame. Last year, as a sophomore he won his weight's quarterfinal match in a split decision over Bob Kuhn, but was defeated in the semis by Jack Griffin. The decision there was unanimous. 
Griffin won't be returning this year, but Semerad is far from assured of the title. He will be joined by a number of other 118lb. challengers--some of whom did not even compete in last year's bouts. But Semerad is confident, and he is biding his time until the Bengals kick off in March. 
"I think the best point in my favor," he said, "is that I'm in very good shape now. I've been working with the "B" wrestling team this year, and I've won two of my three matches. <And this is despite the fact that he has wrestled out of his own weight grouping. He has tangled with opponents in the 134 and 142 lb. classes.) 
"Another thing is that I'm more aggressive now, and I wasn't last year. My worst point? that's probably my left hook." 
Semerad has had plenty of experience against fighters from Chicago and Notre Dame, and he doesn't hesitate to make favorable comparisons. 
"The boys in Chicago like to fight," he said. "They're sluggers, and the technique improves as you advance through the pairings Here it's more technique. The caliber here is just as good as the caliber in Chicago's novice division," he continued, "but their open division is almost as good as the pro's." 
''There are more fighters there, but the boxing down here is just as good." 
Larry Semerad will have 11 days to train until his title fight in Chicago,and he will spend most of that time trying to trim himself down to his specified weight of ll8lbs. After Chicago, he may be fighting in Minnesota. But he will certainly be fighting at Notre Dame in the Irish Bengals, and that promises to turn the ll8. lb. class into quite a show. 
Page 8 THE OBSERVER Juesday, February 22, 1972 

Nixon nteets Mao and Chou 
(continued from page 3) 
sipped from "Sea to Shining Sea." 
It was a particularly striking exercise for the men of the Nixon administration who had so long and earnestly deplored the diplomacy of mere "at­mospherics." 
!Mrs. Nixon, in a wine-red dress, stood demurely in her place during these commotions.) 

Each of the leading diners offered two or three dozen toasts during each round of wandering. They seemed to be consuming more shoe leather than Mao Tai­-the Chinese sorghum firewater that was in their glasses. But bottle-bearers were close at hand and Kissinger, among others, was seen taking at least two refills. 
It was a striking celebration also because it occurred only eight hours after a rather minimal welcome ceremony for the President in Peking. Chou and his colleagues provided an honor guard and a high-ranking welcoming committee of government leaders, but they allowed no suggestion of popular enthusiasm and only a few signs of public curiosity. 
The presidential -party was annoyed not so much by this welcome, it said, as by news and television accounts that por­trayed the arrangements as modest. Its spokesmen contended that nothing more had been expected. But the party was in fact intensely curious about the caliber of reception the Chinese would stage on arrival and was informed of the situation by radio from the airport only momer,L" before the President's plane touched down in Peking. 
Much of this visit had been elaborately planned with the advance parties camping here since Feb. 1. But much also had been left entirely to the Chinese hosts. So that very little had actually been revealed about the quality of the reception. 
Moreover, the two governments
had also agreed to keep their formal schedule of conversations deliberately flexible so that they might be moved or extended as the discussions warranted. In any case, high-level talks on short notice is part of the regular routine to which foreigners in Peking have long been ac­customed. 
In any case, whatever irritations there were passed :tuickly when Nixon's hosts 
arranged for a furtive change of 
schedule this afternoon and gave 
Latin American Week 
by Susan Stone Sunday, February 27th, marks the beginning of "Latin American Week" at Notre Dame. 
Events will continue through March 4th. 
Though the event is being sponsored by the Pan American Club, ND-SMC professors will participate, as well as the students themselves. The 

McGovern supporters 

The Students for McGovern organization will concentrate on the Indiana primary rather than on the Mock Democratic Con­vention, according to Al Cramer, who heads the Notre Dame-St. Mary's group. 
South Bend residents will be canvassed by students in a door­to-door campaign before the May primary. About 25 students at­tended their meeting last night in the Regina·lounge. 
The only effort effort that the McGovern organization will make at the convention will be to establish a self-supporting nucleus in each state delegation. Beyond this, efforts would probably strain the organization's capacity. 
The group is also planning to start organizing faculty emm­bers to work for McGovern, as well as starting a film series to raise money. 

Students for Lindsay 

Students for Lindsay an­nounced today that they would concentrate their efforts on the Mock Democratic Convention to be held in late April. 
Chairman Glen Corso said that the group would be concentrating on capturing large state delegations, getting supporters elected to the platform com­mittee and moving the con­vention to nominate John V. Lindsay as their candidate. 
Lindsay, according to Corso, is one of the few "true" liberals in the race and the only one that has a reasonable chance to win the national election. 
"Beyond that, John V. Lindsay has had an excellent mixture of Congressional and Executive experience, which his opponents lack for the most part," Corso asserted. "He has a firm com­mittment towards aiding the nation's cities, an issue which will be one of the most important in the upcoming campaign." 
Corso urged all those interested in aiding the Lindsay effort to call him at 1397, or to call Ann Therese Darin at 4106. 
opening activity is the film "El 
Che"(about Cesar Chavez), February 27, 28, 29. 
On the 28th, in addition to March 1 and 3, there will be a Conference featuring outside speakers, but they have not yet been announced. 
All during the week exhibitions from the various Latin American countries will be on display. Most of the events take place in the Library Auditorium at 8:00 in the evening. 
The closing ceremonies will be at .the St. Mary's Clubhouse for the Pan American Club, said the main purpose of the week was to make the students more "Aware of each nations' customs and culture". 
the president the relatively rare 
honor of an opening audience at 
Chairman Mao's home. 

The President and the premier are to meet in a small group tomorrow afternoon while Secretary Rogers and others meet separately with their counterparts. 
::::::::::::::::::::;;.;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::~::::::::: 
Junior Jim Ferguson won a landslide victory yesterday in Howard Hall's presidential election. Ferguson and his running mate Bob Chong cap­tured 87 of the 144 ballots cast in the four way race. 
Ferguson is a junior from Akron, Ohio. Chong is from Wainanalo, Hawaii. 
Ninty percent of the hall residents voted. 
MOCK CONVENTION DELEGATE SIGN-UPS Today thru Friday in the Huddle, 10:30 am-2:30pm in theDining Halls: 5:00-6:30 pm Delegate Fee -$1 .00 Sign up early for your choice of state delegations  
ALUMNI CLUB (Senior Bar) Chris Manion (Village Inn Banio Player) Returns to play your favorite oldies etc. Tuesday After the Fordham game Coming this weekend Fri: Oldies but goodies night Sat: Live Rock Music  

Barlow endorses InPIRG 
I encourage all St. Mary's women to sign the In PI RG petition to add the $3.00 fee to the tuition invoice. 
Students rarely have the opportunity to effect change in the larger community outside the college. In PI RG's activities are directed toward goals that are not distant but immediate and pressing. 
I 
Through financial support, each student can directly work toward the goals of lnPIRG. -Kathleen Barlow-Student body presidem 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
(-------------~-===~===::::----~ 
WANTED 

POETRY WANTED for An­thology. Include stamped en­velope. Idlewild Press, 1S07 E. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angles, California 90021. 
Private duty, nurses registered R practical, 5 or 6 days weekly, 
alternating  weekends  7-3  &  3-11  
shifts. Vicinity ND-SMC.  Box Q,  
Notre Dame, Ind.  

Garage to rent near campus. Call S797. 
Need ride to Northern Ill. U. Feb. 25. Call 43S3. 
SMC girl needs ride to Cincinnati Fri. Feb. 25th. Please call 40S1. 
Need ride to Saginaw, Michigan. March 10. Call Chris 4292. 
NOTICES 

DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and within Europe. Leave anytime from NY -Chicago. Flight Center 227 North Randall, Madison, WI 53706. 
ATTENTION PRE-LAW STUDENTS!!! LSAT REVIEW COURSE NOW ACCEPTING STUDENTS FOR APRIL (AND OTHER LSAT TESTS.) FOR INFORMATION CONTACT: 
KELLY  FLYNN,  232-S236.  
AVERAGE  SCORE  INCREASE  
100 POINTS.  

Need typing done??? Will do typing for reasonable rates and on short notice --don't waste time pecking away. Call Chip S256. 
OVERSEAS JOBS FOR STUDENTS. Australia, Europe, 
S. America, Africa, etc. All professions and occupations, $700 to $3,000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing, Free in­formation Write, JOBS OVERSEAS, Dept. F2, Box 15071, San Diego, CA 92115. 
Books -Can't find them? Try Pandora's 
S.B. at N.D. Aves. Noon -Midnight 

TEACHERS! M.A.'s, abd's, earn a pittance while working for small new classical Christian 7th-9th grade school. English, Latin, Math, Science teachers needed. Send vita Iist of references, any statements for curriculum design to Magdalen School, Post Office 
Box  1225, South  Bend,  Indiana  
46624.  All  candidates  will  be  
contacted.  

EUROPE THIS SUMMER! Earn Notre Dame credit at University of Vienna, Austria. Ample op­portunity for tours or independent travel. 234-6519. 
Nassau Trip -March 24-31. $202 inclusive for quad accomodations. 
Hotel and air trans. available separately. On sale now at Student Union Ticket Office. Questions: Ca II 7757. 
Tired of Student Government B.S.? Join the Caruso-Long campaign. Call 1076, 7950, 1025, 7920. 
DO YOU REALIZE HOW MUCH TONIGHT'S GAME AGAINST FORDHAM MEANS TO COACH PHELPS AND THE TEAM? WELL, WE DO AND WE HOPE EVERYONE WILL BE THERE TONIGHT TO HELP US CHEER THEM ON TO A SMASHING VICTORY! 
N.D. CHEERLEADERS 

Skiers! 5 places remaining for Easter Jackson Hole Trip -$99 ­Lodging & Tix -Call 6S75. 
Get practical political experience. 
St1:1dent campaign managers needed for Hubert Humphrey at the Mock Democratic Convention. 
-€all R iEII at +-l-1-1-. ­
Stop Lindsay! The only man who could smile his way through two terms of total mismanagement as a mayor, and then believe he should be president. Sign up today to be a delegate for Hubert Humphrey at the Mock Democratic Convention. 
FOR SALE 
Parts and Accessories for Im­ported cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 272-71S7. 
New S-track tapes for sale ($4). 230 Fisher, call 1972. 
Quality S-track tapes only $3. Call 6715. 
ROBERTS 770 X Tape Recorder: Cross Field heads, sound on sound, sound with sound, 4 speeds. 
Call 3729. 
Michelin X tires -165-3S0-15" with tubes. For all VW Bugs; most 15" sports and imports. Best offer 255-6726. 
Nearly new Robert's 1720 reel to reel stereo tape recorder. Origninally $200 now $135. Call 
Bob 3151 after midnight. 
GREAT CAMARA BUY -Canon Canonet QL25: 35mm. rangefinder focus, f2.5 lens. auto or manual operation, Canon "quickload" mechanism, like new, just factory reconditioned, with case, only $55. Will explain! Call 2S3S1SO. 
For Sale: 2 $6.50 tix to Mancini­Williams concert. Call Dennis 1049. 
FOR RENT 
Have three-four bedroom houses available for June or September. Call 234-9364. 
PERSONALS 
To: Secret Admirerer (Admirer) 
Thanks  (Don't  keep  me  
guessing! l  
Paul  

To my Crummy Little Kid! 
Haveagr-r-re-at Birthday! I'm glad I got to know you. I only want to know (did you really?) Thanks for you. One thing. Squiggle-Squiggle 
BEWARE of the ROUTINER! He breaks parietals. Wall Wall Bing Bang 
Happy Birthday Peter at last a Birthday Together. May they all be this happy. Love, Mary 
P .S _ Even though George deserted you, I never will. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost:  Long blue and  gold knit  
scarf_  Call  Tom  1437.  I'm  
freezing.  ..,  

Lost: Brown corduroy jacket with torn shoulder in first floor library. Call 1611 or 1623. 
Lost: Wallet with ID's. You can keep money -Return to 223 Walsh 6S75. 
Lost: Black vinyl NCAA Fencing Tournament notebook in 214 Computer Bldg. Important papers inside needed. Reward offered. Dan Rock 35S9. 
Words Ida 2da 3da 4da 5da 
1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.SO 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.SO 8.95 







