
a , ~ 
' ,. 

, 
On The Inside 
Viewpoint--faculty page 10 
Special Harrisburg feature page 8-9 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VI, No. lOS Friday, April 7. 1972 
New faculty letter issued 
by Marlene Zloza 
A rebuttal to the March 14 faculty letter of "The Future of Notre Dame" has been signed by thirty-one additional faculty members who disagree with the premises of the first letter and the conclusions it drew. 
The new statement, dated March 30, expresses concern that the first letter was "Misleading in the overall view it presents of academic policies since the institution of the Office of Provost." "We see no 'decline', no 'deteriorating' future for Notre Dame, but rather vigorous and reasonable ... moves to permit Notre Dame to educate well despite the challenging en­vironment of the 1970's," the statement read. 
One of the signers, Charles F. Roedig, Associate Professor of Modern Languages, commented on the sponsors of the first statement. "I think they are crying wolf · making some strong, heavy charges and assumptions about the future which will not necessarily happen." 
first sponsors 'crying wolf' 
The first letter referred to "a new style" and "new policies" that are "revising the whole community at Notre Dame," but Roedig questions "The definitions of the premises of the letter. Are the new style and the new policies really new? They are all written in the faculty manual." 
In general, Roedig feels the first letter "is flawed by basing its conclusions on emotions instead of intellect. They have concluded things by ·using their own hypothesis." 
The Office of the Provost was another matter brought up in the first letter. Although it spoke in generalities, Thomas S. Fern, Associate Professor of Art believes that the references "were hitting at Fr. Burtchaell's style. I, per­sonally, appreciate a forthright statement from someone in his position of authority." 
Prof. Roedig felt that "the question of the Provost is a matter for the Faculty Senate to discuss with the administration if there is enough interest in the topic. They would be the correct faculty representatives in the matter." 
Parts of the initial letter suggested a decline in the democratic self government of the 
Warren calls lor 'effective lawand good will' 
by Mike Baum Former Chief Justice Earl Warren delivered the last of three lectures last · night, saying, "We must constantly scrutinize developments that would divert our Nation from the path of allegiance to the standards of cultural pluralism and racial equality that we have long professed to hold." The Supreme Court veteran concluded the Civil Rights Lectures of the Law . School before a capacity crowd in the Center for Continuing Education . Continuing with his legal history of civil rights in the area of race relations, Justice Warren traced the development of legislation in the· field from the Hayes­Tilden election to the present day. Noting the "solutions" of different countries to race relations ranging from apartheid and subordination of minorities to civil war. Warren observed, "in the face of these alternatives, we cannot lightly view attempts to subvert or disemble these portions of the Constitution which confer civil rights on all American citizens, regardless of race or color." "I do not believe we can retain our strength as a nation unless we retain a commitment to racial equality and the free enjoyment of the rights of American citizenship by all, and I do not believe we can suborinate that commitment to temporary exigencies and inconveniences." Recounting the gradual increase in segregation practices in the South. and, to a lesser extent. in the North, Warren em· phasized the decline of civil rights in the 50 years following the Hayes election. 
The retired Chief Justice discussed in detail the history of the United States Commission on Civil Rights. He said of the 
•
I 
Fern: forsees no action, but fears 'schism' 
University and a lining up of subordinates to the administration who instruct, instead of consult with, their colleagues. The second letter refutes this, stating "the idea that democratic self­governm€nt operated here in the 1960's only to be lost in the early 1970's is simply false." 
"I think the first letter had a number of inaccuracies, particularly the statement that 
N.D. is drifting away from the democracy of the past," contends Robert E. Burns, Associate Professor of History. 
"The past was not as democratic as the letter implied. Each department has a different history, the first letter may have reflected one tradition, but as far as I am concerned, my department is much more open now than it was," Burns concluded. 
letter welcomes evaluations 
On the question of student course evaluations, the new letter states, "we welcome teacher evaluation by students" and "we note that the present questionaire is under study by a University committee, and we trust that we will 
Commission, of which University President Fr. Theodore Hesburgh is presently chairman, that "its work, since its creation in 1957, has symbolized a growing conviction among Americans of all races that the 
principle of racial equality is not one that can be partially or temporarily im­plemented, nor rhetorically espoused and subverted in practice." 
Praising the Commission's work since it's inception, culminating in several pieces of landmark legislation, Warren noted that the Commission had published more than twenty-five documents since 1965 alone in such fields such as "federal rights under school desegregation laws, social and economic mobility in the Negro community, and equal employment opportunities under federal law." Justice Warren commented, "I wish that every American could read those documents." 
In conclusion, he said, "We have, it bears repeating, 34 million members of minority groups whose racial rights have not been recognized but must be fully accorded. That calls for a combination of effective law and good will. In the absence of both these elements we can only expect chaos. If there is one lesson to be learned from our tragic experience in the Civil War, it is that the question of racial discrimination is never settled until it is settled right. It is not yet rightly settled." 
The introduction for Warren was given by Fr. Hesburgh, chairman of the US Civil Rights Commission. in whose honor the lecture series was inaugurated. 
Hesburgh observed. "I doubted that we have had in the 14 Chief Justices of the United States a man wh has done more to change ... the fundamental psyche of the country than our distinguished guest." 
continue to improve this instrument and assess 
its effectiveness." 
The letter didn't mention charges that such evaluations affect teaching styles and procedures. 
Roedig also brought up teaching loads by saying, "I consider the first letter an answer to Fr. Burtchaell 's letter about tenure and teaching loads which was blunt but not categorical. It did leave an opening for dialogue." 
'provost statement no rule' 
The second faculty letter commented similarly, "the Provost's recent statement on teaching hours for faculty is no absolute rule by the attempt to make a general policy meaningful.'' 
Prof. Burns sees this as a favorable step. "I am pleased to see an effort to get equity in teaching loads. I'd like to see it studied more deeply. The question of six or twelve hours of teaching depends on the content and type of courses involved and the amount of class preparation required.'' 
The March 30 declaration concludes with a pledge to "continue to put our complete efforts iil.to the committee work of this University," but when their studied recommendations are vetoed, the signers expect an explanation, a chance for discussion." 
Rev. Raymond F. Cour,. C.S.C., Professor of Government, commented that he "agreed in substance" with the letter and feels "others feel the same way" although they have personal opinions. 
As a whole, Prof. Burns sees the second letter as "a corrective to an image that was presented 
in the first letter,'' and Prof. Roedig considers the new statement "much more general, but based on realistic evaluations of things as they are." As far as repercussions, Prof. Fern doesn't think any action will be taken, but considers "both letters essentially individual statements of opinion. I have only one worry, he concluded, "we may have set up a schism between the two groups. I'm sure no one wants to antagonize those who signed the first letter. I hope no ill feelings appear on either,, side because of the opposing views expressed. 


J 
j 
j 
• 


the observer Friday, April 7, 1972 
world briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Washington--Congressional sources siad that Le Due Tho, a top North Vietnamese official, has sent word to President Nixon that he would like to resume his secret peace talks with Henry A. Kissinger. The message was given to a group of American labor leaders visiting Hanoi. 
Washington--Adm. Thomas H. Mooter, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, vowed that future air strikes would hit "all military targets that are supporting the enemy offensive in South Vietnam"-but not all the way north to Hanoi. 
-
Dongha, South Vietnam--The South Vietnamese soldiers defending Dongha, a deserted town that has marked the limit of the Communist advance since Monday, managed to repel the attackers again, despite artillery shelling, mortar and a mistaken attack by an American Navy jet. A missile fired from within South Vietnam obliterated a jet fighter over Dongha. 
Cairo--Egypt, charging that King Hussein's proposal for a Federation of Jordanians and Palestinians would legitimize Israel's role in the Arab world, broke her diplomatic relations with Jordan. President Anwar El­Sadat of Egypt told a Palestinian national council meeting in Cairo that Egypt would not allow anybody to "liquidate the rights of the Palestinian people.'' 
London--Protestant and Roman Catholic street gangs spurred the violence that has evolved into Northern Ireland's current crisis, an of­ficial British inquiry concluded. 
Philadelphia--A three-judge federal court in Philadelphia declared unconstitutional a Pennsylvania law repaying parents the tuitions they pay for pupils in nonpublic schools. 
Philadelphia-President Nixon, addressing the National Catholic Education Association convention in Philadelphia, strengthened his commitment of federal aid to Catholic schools, but he cautioned that finding legal ways to do it would take time. 
Conducted in March 

Drive draws 400 registrants 
registered more students but since 
by Sue Prendergast 
there were only two of us, our time and availability was limited." Over 400 Notre Dame and St. 
The Board deputized only two
Mary's students registered to vote 
representatives on campus
during the drive conducted last 
"probably because they didn't
month by Joe Henderlong, Sheila 
think many would register,''
Culligan, Don Mooney, and the 
Henderlong added. "They didn't
Women's League of Voters. 
seem very out-going about getting Henderlong and Culligan, both students to register." Voter Registration Committee 
Henderiong described students
workers deputized by the St. 
as "very eager to register and
Joseph's County Board of Elec­
interested in learning about their
tions, registered 125 students at the 
responsibilities under the new
dining halls and dorms. Ac­
law."
cording to Henderlong, about 35 of these were St. Mary's students. Students registered before April Henderlong attributed the low 3 will be able to vote in the Indiana figures to a lack of deputies to primary May 2 and in the national conduct the registration. "I election next November, but not in 
definitely felt that we should have local or county elections. The 
Placentent Bureau 
Sign up the week of April 10 tor interviews scheduled the week of April 17 · 21, Inclusive. 
Interviews are open to NO and SMC seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 207, Main Building. Select your own time and sign your name. Room 207 will be open at 8:00a.m. until 5:00p.m. each day, except Friday. 
Consult the Placement Manual for additional information regarding in­terviews and procedures. 
Make sure a completed College Interview Form is left in designated boxes in Room 207 no later than Friday of the Week prior to your interviews. 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF APRIL 17 · 21, Inclusive 
April 17 BURROUGHS WELLCOME & CO. Will consider all Degrees tor Pharmaceutical Sales Reps. 
April 18 TEACHER CORPS. Liberal Arts graduates for Teacher Corps 

Internships in  U.S. and Territories.  
DEPT. OF CHICAGO.  STREETS AND SANITATION BS, MS in C.E. and M.E.  ·  CITY  OF  
April  19  LEO A. DALY COMPANY. Structural-Civil Engr.  B. of Arch.  BS, MS in E.E., M.E.  
HEALTH EDUCATION & WELFARE AUDIT AGENCY. in Acct. MBA . Prefer Accounting background.  BBA  
OLIVETTI. MBA-backgrounds. Management positions.  Prefer Marketing Nationwide.  and  Accounting  
April  21  ACTION-PEACE CORPS-VISTA. Education and French backgrounds for Peace Corps. Other Lib. Arts for Vista. Other openings available for Engineering, Science, Bus. Admin., MBA and Law graduates.  
CPC INTERNATIONAL INC.  BS in Ch.E., M.E. and Chern.  

The Observer is published daily during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and st. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class 
postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
County Board may place voting machines on campus during the primary, Henderlong said. 
He contended that the advantage of registering in Indiana is that it allows students to "avoid the hassle of absentee balloting." 
During the drive, 11 students also petitioned the County Board to attend the state convention as non­partisan delegates. According to Henderlong, the Board will select delegates next week. 

COLOR IN THIS "MINI­
PRESIDENTIAL 
1. 
Buy ct bunch ot Flair pens. You need orange, purple, brown, red, biue and ol· ive. (You need them anyway for school.) 

2. 
Now-color in the picture according to these color guide numbe·rs. (6). Orange (9). Purple (5). Brm·m (2). Red (3). Btue (12). Olive. Please do not color unnum· bered areas. 


on campus today 
friday 
7:00 
& 10:00 p.m. -flick, paHon, cac, engineering auditorium, $1.50. 

7:00 
p.m.. coronation of king kersten, ad building, inaugural ball to follow in Ia fortune. 


7:00, 9:15, & 11:30-flick, the professionals, knights of columbus, kc hall, $1.00. 
7:00 & 10:30-flick, anatomy of a murder, badin vintage cinema, badin hall' $.75. 
saturday 
7:00 
& 10:00 p.m. -flick, paHon, cac, engineering aud.$1.50. 

7:00 
& 10:30 -flick, anatomy of a murder, badin vintage cinema, badin hall, $.75. 


sunday 
7:00 p.m. -meeting, red cross blood donation organizers, 123 nieuwland science hall. 
8:15p.m. -concert, notre dame concert band, o'laughlin aud. -smc. 
at nd-smc 


FRANKIE'S 
EVERYDAY DINNER 
SPECIALS . 
Ocean Perch $1.25 

-1 0 oz. Rib-Eye Steak $1.50 
-112 Breasted Chicken $1.50 
includes Tureen Soup, Salad, Bread, Butter and Coffee Planning a Party? Frankie's has Special Rates I for Student Parties! 
POSTER" OF ONE OF THE 
;:.;J CANDIDATES! 
:{I 
'.!.," 3. Congratulations! You have created a -f genuine full color portrait of someone ! you kno·n and love. Maybe. If he or she i is not your favorite presidential candi­f date, have patience. You'll see your favor­
' ite soon in the Flair Election Collection! (Don't forget to ask about Flair's running mate, the Flair Hot Liner.) 


--,,··-~-. 
\_\ 
\'( 
~I ~­

U.S. uses planes, ' ships to counter 
Vietcong invasion 
' 
Page 3

Friday, April 7, 1972 
by Craig R. Whitney 


<c> Hl72 New York Times 
Raking the lawn is usually con­

Saigon, Friday, April 7--American war planes and
sidered an autumn activity, but 

Navy destroyers began systematic bombardment of
here at N.D. it also becomes a 

North Vietnamese surface-to-air missile sites just
springtime chore. 

North of the Demilitarized Zone Thursday as Com­munist forces continued to press their attacks on Quangtri province, on South Vietnamese positions west of Hue City, and in Binhlong province 50 miles north of Saigon.
An estimated 8,000 North Vietnamese and Vietcong troops cut highway 13 some 37 miles north of Saigon Thursday morning and two provincial towns were under attack. 
The United States command announced ThJrs-iay afternoon that "in response to the invasion of the Republic of Vietnam by North Vietnamese forces 
· across the Demilitarized Zone, U. S. Air Force tactical aircraft and Navy components are attacking military targets in the area north of the Demilitarized Zone in 
~ order to help protect the lives of the diminishing U. S. 
i 
forces in South Vietnam." .1 The statement did not elaborate but said the raids would be of "limited duration." 
American pilots in Danang said in telephone in­terviews that the 20-odd active surface-to-air missile sites just above the Demilitarized Zone were the im­mediate targets of the air campaign, which in its initial stages was limited to below the 18th parallel. 
The Sam sites, each of which has three to four missile launchers, have been firing at American and South Vietnamese planes bombing North Vietnamese troops who have penetrated 10 miles south of the Demilitarized Zone. Though continued cloudy weather limited the number of planes that could strike at th.: sites Thursday, numerous Sams were being firerl st the attacking U.S. force. One U.S. Air Force pilot sa;u that "a couple of guys have had missiles come clo~~;' enough to do damage." 
Tht:> North Vietnamese radio claimed that 1C American aircraft had been shot down Thursday. ·r-;.J losses have been reported yet by the IT. S. commanr~, which withholds such announcements until the end •-!" rescue efforts for surviving crevvmen. 
The South Vietnamese forces bf'lfl--'.' tht~ Demilitarized Zone were reported to be ho.iding the defensive line at Quangtri City and Dongha Thursday while under coninued intense artillery attack. 
The newest North Vietnamese attacks, in Binhlong province on the Cambodian border north of Saigon, were being regarded with increasing concern by American and South Vietnamese officials here. 
The attacking forces, which the Saigon military command said were from the Fifth North Vietnamese Army Division and had infiltrated across the border from base areas in Eastern Cambodia, were in control 
Egypt announces 

of most of the northern part of the province from Chonthanh, where the enemy had cut highway 13. A South Vietnamese armored column tried un­successfully to break through the roadblock, according 
Florida's Disneyworld became 

a to reporters at the scene, who said the ,anks and

formal relations 

land of enchantment for children 
personnel carriers returned to Locninh base. 

and N.D. students during the Easter break.

break with Jordan 
<(' l I!li:! Nl'w York Times 
C&liro. April fi-Egypt broke diplomatic relations with .Jordan today, charging that King Hussein's proposal for a federation of Jordanians and Palestinians would open a gate for Israel into the Arab world. 
The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting a few hours before the Palestinian National Council con­vened at Cairo University to discuss the impact of King Hussein's plan on the Palestinian movement. 
In a 20 minute speech to the members of the Council, Prl'sident Sadat vowed that Egypt would stand behind the Palestinians. 
"Egypt will not allow anyone to liquidate the rights of the Palestinian people." he said. "Palestine will not be lost and the political rights of the Palestinian people will not be a point of bargaining." 
Applause and cheering broke out in the Gamal Abdel Nasser Hall at the University when Sadat announced the decision to "sever all relations with the Hahemite Kingdom of Jordan." 
Sadat said Cairo was consulting with other Arab capitals to seek a common stand against King Hussein's plan for a United Arab Kingdom. 
The 36 year old monarch's plan. which he made public March 15, envisions the creation of two federal regions under his rule. one to comprise Jordanian territory east of the Jordan River and the other to consist of the west bank Palestinian territory that has been under Israeli occupation since the six-day war of 1967. 
The official announcement of the plan provoked confusion and anger in much of the Arab world. although rumors of such a formula to settle the Palestinian problem had been drifting through Arab capitals for some time. 
Fears were aroused in Egypt. in particular. that the plan would lead to a separate peace between Jordan and Israel. weakening Egypt's political strategy for recovery of the Israeli-occupied Sinai Peninsula. 
Palestinian Guerrilla leaders saw the plan as a scheme threatening their proclaimed objectives of winning rights for Palestinian regugees to return to their homes in what now is Israeli territory. 




THE OESERVER 
' AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 

John Abowd  Jim Jendryk  
News: 283-1715  Editor-in-chief  Business Manager  
Editorial: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471  Don Ruane Executive Editor  Bill Bauerle Advertising Manager  

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Friday, April 7, 1972 



University politics 


The dialogue over Notre Dame's future has begun. Right now it is between faculty members. Fr. Hesburgh's public entry into the controversey will follow the 
·Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate's announcement of the results of its survey to determine the extent of facult~ support for the first letter. The survey is incomplete since it only asks whether faculty members agree or disagree with the original letter, "The future atNotre Dame,"but if widespread agreement is found the current crisis will take on even greater dimensions. 
Some people think "crisis" is too strong a description. Yet the depth of disagreement even within the faculty about the future course of the University helies any other adjective. What is at -;take is not the Office of the Provost, or specifically the content of any one ad­ministrative policy. The heart of the co1.1troversy is the direction of the decision-making process within the community. 
Democracy at ND 
The first group of professors found ND lacking in democratic government and the second group applauded this condition. The extent of their disagreement is capsulized in two paragraphs from the statements: from The Future at Notre Dame: 
The whole community is being revised and revised downward. This revision embraces the administration, the faculty and students; it comes at the cost of democratic values, of professional ~values,· and of educational values. A 
. frustrated, regimented society also makes a poor community, and in· dividuals whose self-respect and con­fidence are perpetually undermined become poor as persons. from the second letter: 
... none of us would welcome a situation productive of an unchecked pluarism that is detrimental to the interests of the whole University. Let us hope that all realize that administrators vacillating in insecurity and bending readily to unreasonable faculty perogatives or student demands tend to undermine any college or university. 
As evirlence of the democratic struc­ture of the University, Professor McLane argues that a bad policy, the original academic calendar, was reversed by a tripartite committee--the Academic Council. The argument and the arguments offered in the second faculty letter show a fundamental misun­derstanding of the political process at Notre Dame. 
Political Structure 
The Academic Council is a freak. No other non-administrative committee in theUniversity'sgovernance possesses the same autonomy as this body. Neither the Faculty Senate, the Student Life Council, the University Judicial Board or for that rna tter the Security Advisory Committee, can make a decision without the threat of absolute administrative veto. Prof. Beitzinger et al. recognize this situation by demanding, in their last paragraph, 
that a11 ad minis tra tive decisions reversing faculty committee work be fully explained and discussed. 
But explanations and discussions are insufficient without reciprocal political clout. Unless tripartite committees are given override power over ad­ministrative vetoes, no one can claim that the University governance is democratic. Student and faculty par­ticipation is bastardized by the inherently 
advisory  nature  of  all  the  non­ 
administrative  except  the  Academic  
Council.  
The  internal  factions  of  the  Notre  
Dame  community  are  at  odds.  

Disagreement is only a few measures short of a vote of "no-confidence" in the decision-making mechanism at this University. While a lack of confidence in the community government from the students can and has been successfully ignored by the administration, a vote of "no-confidence" by the faculty simply cannot be so easily ignored. Both groups can move outside the formal channels of the University to express their protest. If the current dialogue does not result in substantive changes in the formal mechanisms, their abandonment is the only logical consequence. 
Why "Crisis, 
The temporal emminence of the failure of this dialogue makes the situation a cns1s. Without real political power students and faculty can only consider,· even the best defended tenure decisions, class load decisions, student life rules, and any other administrative · edict, arbitrary--arbitrary because they do not, in any real sense, represent community government. They are edicts and will be resisted simply because they are edicts. 
There must be a substantial response to the· student and faculty complaints voiced in both statements. The direction of this response will determine the direction of student and faculty energy. Non­administrative political power within the University would transform this energy into a constructive force capable of eliminating the division within the community. No other response can prevent an explosion of this discontent. 
John Abowd 
The Staff 
Nite Editor: Joe Abell Ass't Nite Editors: Maria Gallagher, Marlene Zloza Extra Help: Jim McDermott, John Abowd Typists: Pat Kenny Lucy Rodarte, John Brady, Helen Smudski, Barb Norcross, Rick Smith, Fran Finnegan Ad layout Man: Rick Headlines: Marty Miller Pictures: Bob Hughes 
nite controller: mark j. niederkorn 
IIJulius Caes-ar had a rotten calendar and he changed it. 
Pope Gregory had a rotten calendar and he changed it. 
And friends, I'm pleased to announce that Notre Dame ..."' 
0 bs e r v er mumuuuumummuuumuum1mmummmuumuuuuumumum 
Check your poliquotient 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllummmlmmulmumlmmlmlmlmmul RusseII Baker 
<C) 1972 New York Times • 

Washington, April 5--Here is a chance to test your political I.Q. First read all the political news printed since January, 1971, when the 1972 Presidential Campaign officially began. Then lift your pencil and start to answer the following questions No more than two days (48 hours) may 
may be spent on any one question. Add the value of each correct answer to ~ind your score. A score higher than 300 points means that you are a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination. 
I. (value: 30 points. Check the one wrong answer.) None of the presidential candidate~" tl!is year has gray hair because (a) George Washington didn't have gray hair. (b) Gray hair is communistic. (c) It is cheaper to rent brown hair and black hair than it is to rent gray hair. <d l Dandruff shows up more clearly on television if you have gray hair. 
2. (value: 30 points.) Senator Muskie received 48 percent of the 
primary vote in New Hampshire, and his campaign was said to have received a setback. Governor Wallace received 42 per cent of the vote in Florida, and he was said to have scored a triumph. In an essay of 10,000 words, explain the mathematics of politics, using the quantum theory to show with appropriate formulas wby it is better for a candidate to receive 42 per cent of the vote than 48 per cent, particularly if everyone 
agrees that he is not really a candidate. 
:3. <value: 40 points. Check the right answer.) Assume that you are president Nixon and have decided to drop Spiro Agnew from the 1972 ticket. To replace him you need a candidate who will be even more popular with your conservative followers. Your best pick-would be (a) C"'aligula (b) Nelson Rockefeller (c) Lawrence Welk (d) John Wayne <el Mrs. Dita Beard. 
4. 
<value: 50 points.) Fill in the one missing word in this famous political aphorism: "Money can't buy happiness unless your idea of happiness is being president of States of America." ' 

5. 
<value: 40 points, Check the right answer.) Although the Democratic Party has still not paid its telephone bills from the 196P· campaign;._the telephone company will continue to give it phone service. 


This is because: ­\a' If the Democrat's phone service were cut off the governmenr would not be able to tap their telephones and find out what they were up to: to avoid this situation, the government has secretly pafd their phone bill. 
<b> The telephone company has a policy of never denying service to the poor .. 
( c l The telephone company is a great human_ being. 
6. <value: 30 points. This is a mathematics question designed to test a number ot essential political skills and the detail of your basic knowledge. l Prove that the square root of the number of Democratic presidential candidates multiplied by the cube of the number of Democratic primaries being held this year, when multiplied by the number of dollars that will be spent before election day, is not propor­tional to the resulting inconsequentiality. 
i. 
<value 20points. Strikeouttheonlyanswerthatiswrong.) Agony is {a l Being asked to state your position on busing. (b) Having to identify our campaign contributors. (c) Starting a campaign speech by saying, "It's wonderful to be back here in Indiana," and then remembering that you are in South Dakota <dl Discovering that your on~ big television special of tne campaign has pre-empted the showing of the championship basketball game. 

H. 
{\·alue: 40 points. Check the correct answer.) When Abraham Lincoln said. "You can fool all the people some of the time," he was referring to {a> The war in Vietnam. (b) The I.T.T. shredding machine. (Cl Hippies. <dl Television makeup. <el The powerful ways and means 


committee. 

9. 
( \"alue: 30 points. l Compose a 30-minute television speech ~uggesting persuasively that while you hate everybody that anybody in the television audience hates, your love for your fellow man is as big as all get-out. 

10. 
( Yalue: 60 points. Check the one wrong answer.) To have this test accurately graded it should be sent to (a) Thepowerfulways and means committee. <b > The Church, synagogue or mosque of your choice. (c) The t'.S. post office. <dl The I.T.T. shredding machine. (e) Jack An­derson in the White House files. 



Friday, April 7, 1972 the observer 

it's the right time 
Dear Aunt Lucy, 
When you called last night, you probably wondered who that loud voice was who answered the phone and what that barking was in the background. 
Wilbur, my first college roommate, is staying with me again. We used to room toge1her in one of those super-small dor­mitory rooms with paper-thin walls, tiny dressing stalls, indoor-outdoor linoleum tile --you know, a typical college dorm. I remember my first day at the dorm, won­dering what my roommate would be like. I arrived three hours before he did and I guarded the bed near the window, making sure I'd get custody of the top three dresser drawers so I shouldn't have to bend over more than necessary. 
And then Wilbur arrived, with a knapsack and a menagerie of cats, hamsters, birds, gerbils, chameleons, fish. Wilbur . was an animal freak. I'd wake up in the middle of the night and find Wilbur's ten gerbils stuck between my toes, his four cats taunting the mynah bird, which was cawing obscentities that made the college newspaper look in­nocent. But Wilbur didn't have a dog. 
And now after three years of being away from that zoo, I am coming with Wilbur again. And not alone. 
"I always wanted a dog," he explained when he arrived here. "You know, I used to see those movies like Rin Tin Tin, Lassie and National Velvet..." 
"National Velvet was a horse ... " 
''I know, but I used to squint my eyes real tight and it looked like a dog. I always wondered what Elizabeth Taylor was doing riding a dog. Of course I called the SPCA immediately ... 
" ...anyway, I finally got a dog a few weeks ago. She's sitting on you table ... didn't you notice?" 
Devouring my table was the biggest sheep dog I had ever seen; so large that even Richard Burton would be afraid to ride her. And if I hadn't noticed the dog, I certainly noticed the little Remembrances she had left from the door to the table, a la Hansel and Gretel, without the fairy tale charm. 
"Her name is Paddington," Wilbur said. "But you can call her Pad." 
"Pat?" 
"No, Pad. Consider her your third roommate." "But will she pay rent'?" I asked as Wilbur walked away. When Wilbur first got Pad, he lived in one 
rick mitz 
of those apartment complexes (Withering Arms Terrace East) for swinging singles and young harried marrieds with paper-thin walls --just like the dorm. Robert Cher, a jealous young husband, and his wife, Pat lived next door to Wilbur. 
But Wilbur was preoccupied, trying, in his unique booming voice, to teach Paddington tricks. "Roll over, Pad... sit, girl,,lay down, Pad ... fetch, Pad... play dead, girl.. .get off the bed, Pad... bad girl...stay, Pad... good girl, good girl...let me scratch your belly ... how does that feel, Pad? ... up, Pad ... " and on and on... 
... until Robert Cher came bounding into Wilbur's apartment. 
"Okay, where is she?" 
"Who? Who?" Wilbur asked twice. 
"My wife. My wife," Mr. Cher answered twice. "I heard you calling her, you disgusting wife-snatcher, telling her to lay down and roll over and get off your bed ... " 
"Better off than on, eh?" 
"Okay, kid," Mr. Cher said, grabbing Wilbur. "Where is my wife?" "Beats me..." And he did. And as he did, Wilbur tried to 
mumble something about "a dog, a dog... " 
"Oh yeah? I'll teach you not to call my wife a dog... " And he did teach Wilbur. An eye, an ear and a nose worth. 
And Wilbur moved out. Quickly. And moved into my place. Quicklier. So you see, Aunt Lucy, that's what Wilbur and his dog are doing here. 
So now Wilbur spends his days at the doctor (a good eye, ear and nose man) and looks for a new apartment, although he doesn't seem to be in too much of a hurry. 
And I spend my days with an unruly dog named Paddi!lgton wishing thqt Liz would leave Dick and ride away on Pad into the sunset until a big The End flashes across my mind's screen and that this whole mess -­Remembrances and all --is over. 
I haven't gotten around to telling my newly-wed neighbors, Pat and Leonard Meister, about the dog yet. I've been too busy with the dog, trying to teach her to behave--you know, "lay down, Pad... stay, Pad ... sit, girl...roll over, Pad... get off my bed, Pad ... " 
Oh, now she's jumping on my desk and I think she wants some attention. "Do you want me to rub your belly, Pad?" 
Hey, someone just came in the apart­ment.. .It's, it's Mr. Meister ... He's coming at me.... 



free concert -­
There will be a free concert Saturday night at Carroll Hall in Madeleva at SMC beginning at 8:00pm. It is to be a different approach to an evening concert here on campus. 
The idea behind the show is that folk m·usic at ND has been nearly ruined by the Lafortune-type of concert so common in the past. So often too many groups have been crowded into a three hour show wearing out both their music and the audience. The Saturday night concert is designed to provide a comfortable setting for both performers and audience by replacing quantity with quality. 
Many of Saturday night's performers will be on stage for the last time at ND. Each has a unique blend of style and artistry that will expand the show beyond a narrow definition of folk music. 
saturday 
Chris Manion and Dan Gellert, of Senior Bar infamy. will blend traditional fiddle tuf!es and country styles in a fast paced and exciting delivery. 
Beth Griffith and Ann Burlas provide a change of pace with a soft harmonious rendering of their music. 
Dave Huezo and Greta Anderson present a unique approach to rhythm and harmony through original and popular material. 
Paul Guernsey, Jim Moran, and Jim Donnelly tie together traditional folk, bluegrass. and modern material into an exciting and hard-hitting performance 
Saturday night's concert provides an opportunity to see and hear a complete evening's entertainment that will be available for probably the last time. It is well worth the time Saturday night to get to Carroll Hall at Madeleva and enjoy the performance. 
~ 
•i 





a small story 
. If you've been here for any length of time, you know that there aren't any places to study at this university. 
Sure, there's the library. Sure, there are study rooms. But these places and others have their disadvantages, as I found out late last semester. 
'Twas a bit before exam week and all through the dorm the jocks and their stereos were raising a storm. I was trying 
to study in my room for an upcoming 
exam. 1 soon realized my mistake and 
packed up my books for the trip to the 
downstairs study lounge, usually the one 
place in the hall where one can be 
guaranteed of finding quiet for the purpose 
of study. 
I soon realized that I had compounded my mistake. Not only was all the noise from upstairs audible in the study room, 
t.j. clinton 

to study intently. So heavy was my con­centration that I did not notice the couples silently enter thge room. 
After a few minutes of this heavy con­centration on my work, I got the funny feeling someone was watchinr;.. tne. I looked up to see a guy and his girl standing in front of me. 
"Excuse me. can we sit here?" 
"Sure," I answered, and moved myself and my study paraphenelia to one end of the large sofa I was occupying. The couple sat down and began to manifest to me their affection for each other in a very obvious manner. I tri'ed to ignore them. 
Two minutes later, another couple ap­peared in front of me. 
"Excuse me, do you think you could ..... " 
Aaaaaaaaargh! Is there no place on this campus where a man can go and do some 
but the room it~elf was inhabited by beings study uninterrupted? Is there no place (I 
who resemble refugees from a "Planet of 
the Apes" casting session. These seeming 
savages sat at tables where they had 
surrounded themselves with books, soda, 
potato chips, no-doz, and more than a little 
booze. Occasionally, one would emit a 
belch, grunt, yawn, or scream of utter 
despair. Gradually 1 came to the 
realization that these were students, like 
myself, only they had been through the 
ordeal of a few all-nighters. My musings 
were cut short by the entrance of a six-foot 
wispily bearded being who grumbled 
something about my "taking" his place. I 
begged his pardon and made a hasty exit. 
Where could I go to complete my 
studies? I knew the library would be of no 
use. with all the seminar rooms taken long 
ago. and the rest of the building being too 
open to various distraction. The branch 
libraries. a favorite haunt,. were already 
closed. What about empty classrooms? I 
hurried to Nieuwland, only to find that a 
hundred or so people had had the same 
idea. only sooner, so I was out of luck 
there. 
Desperation began to set in. "If only 
there were a place on campus," I thought, 
"that nobody ever used, that were quiet, 
that had a lot of unoccupied seats .... " 
Then it came to me. 
La Fortune. 
1 shouldered my way through the Huddle, and eventually wandered into a deserted lounge in the upper reaches of the student center. I gathered my books around me, and with a feeling of fulfillment after having found a place to work, began was thinking all this, not saying it; I merely gave this second guy and his female friend a freaky look and exited screaming inwardly) someone can go without having Notre Dame weekend syndrome thrust in his face? Brother Gorch, where are you now that we need you? Is there no refuge? Is there no place on this godless campus where ..... ? 
Wait a minute. 
Once again, I piled my books together, and returned to my hall. I entered the hall chapel, turned on the lights, and com­menced study on the floor in front of the altar. I was undisturbed for the rest of the night. 
to brushes 
Beginning Friday, April 7, a group of students from N.D. will be painting the gymnasium of St. Joseph Grammar School, 216 N. Hill St. 
The painting will continue through the weekend. The project is still in need of student volunteers to make it a success. Anyone in­terested in the project, please contact Kevin Jordan at 1878 or 1879 or just come down to the school at these times: Friday 4-8 pm, Saturday 8 am to 8 pm, and Sunday 12 noon to 4 pm. 


,_....... 
6 the observer Friday, April 7, 1972 
Warren views busing, activis:rn 
by Ed Ellis In an informal question and answer session yesterday af­ternoon with some fifty students and faculty, former U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice Earl -warren hit on nearly every area of Court involvement during his con­troversial tenure as Chief Justice. 
Concerning the current busing issue, he said if cheap public housing is restricted to center-city areas, and busing between city and suburbs prohibited, then "you're fight back to a separate but equal svstem." 
· Warren said that the solution was to follow the doctrine of Brown 
v. Board of Education. He opposed a "busing amendment" to the U.S. Constitution because, he said, "busing is a tool, not a principle, and as such, should not be imbedded in the Constitution." 
Warren cited the 1962 case of 
Baker V. Carr as the most im­
portant of his term on the nation's 
High Court. It was this case which 
established the jurisdiction of the 
Federal court system over 
4uestions involving apportionment 
of legislative districts and denial of 
Fourteenth Amendment protection 
in political questions. 
The former Chief Justice noted 
that over 200 blacks were elected in 
local elections this past November. 
This, he said, was a result of the establishment of the right of the courts to counter legislative action that deprives citizens of their 

Universal ND nights scheduled 
Universal Notre Dame Night, 
established in 1924 by the Alumni 
Association to spotlight academic 
progress at the University, will be 
observed in more than 100 
American cities during April and 
May. The extended period is 
dictated by the need to schedule 
the appearance of more than two 
dozen Notre Dame administrators 
in the various cities from coast to 
coast. 
Theme of this year's observance 
is "Private Higher Education: WilJ 
it Survive in the 1970's?" TaJks will 
be preceded by a dinner and 
followed by a question period. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh will speak in the Denver, San f.'rancisco, San Diego, and Los Angeles areas 

rights under the law. 
The one-man, one-vote rulings have also come from this decision, and Warren commented, "I cer­tainly believe the courts have ·the power to prevent distortion of the principle." 
In response to a question con­cerning judicial "activism", Warren said that he did not believe there was any attempt on the part of Baker v. Carr to interfere with the democratic process. He said' 
the court can act only when the legislature has deprived someone of their rights. "Call it activism or whatever you want,"he said, "but the Court doesn't act unless the Fourteenth Amendment has been violated." 
In addition to busing and the Baker case, Warren answered questions on a variety of issues, including the Miranda v. Arizona case, one of the Warren Court's milestones, the benefits of which he said were in danger from more recent Court rulings. ~ 
He spoke briefly on conspiracy trials, saying they took up valuable courtroom facilities and time in long, unproductive trials. Mass trials are too long, he said. Warren also recalled that during his 14­year tenure as a district attorney in California, he seldom used the conspiracy laws, and that they were probably being overused today. 

JIM HIBSCHMAN PONTIAC 
301 Lincolnway E. Mishawaka 255 4771 



ALU Nl CLUB 
{Senior Bar) Presents: Introduction to 
Spring Sat. night with 

Chapped Lips 
playing 9:00 1:00 10' Schlitz 7:00 9:00 

On the subject of the print~ng of stolen documents in newspapers, the ex-head of the High Court vehemently objected to the use of prior restraint, b"-t he said that if publications used illegal methods to obtain their information, then they should be vigorously prosecuted. 
Warren also addressed himself to the question of the Nixon Ad­ministration's attitudes on wiretapping, search and seizure, arrest and detention, and no­knock: He said, "To trifle with wiretaps, search and seizure, and arrest and detention 
is retorgressive and we're giving up some of our freedom every time ineluding district attorney, we propose something like that." California Attorney General, and 
The former Chief Justice was Governor, in addition to Chief questioned on the influence of Justice of the nation's highest public op· ion on judicial opinions. court. "A man must grow and He replied that judicial respon­learn things when he is on the sibility lies in the legal matter court," he said. under discussion, and not with "Justice is like one of those public opinion. He noted "If a mountains we have out in court listens to public opinion, then California," Warren commented. it is no longer a court." "You look at it from one side and 
Concerning his personal ex­· you think you know all about it. perience in public life, Warren Then you look at it from the other explained that he had seen the law side and you don't know it's the from several different angles, same mountain." 
r 1-s~t~a~n~n~u.~al__N_D~--~ 
KARATE CLUB CHAMPIONSHIPS 
Sat. 11 to 3 Gym 4 ACC. _ Admission free 
~=======::.:::::::::::=:======================================-; MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. Eugene Gorski, C.S.C. 
10: 45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Aidan Kavanagh, O.S.B. 
12: 15 a.m. Sun. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 
Vespers: 4:30 p.m. --Our Lady's Chapel 
YWark, !Ve modereservations for afabulous river crui\e." 
When you're going on vacation, dial direct and save when you call ahead for reservations. It's simple. For example, to call a resort in Cairo, California, look up !he area code in your telephone directory and dial "1"; then the area code and then 555-1212 for Cairo information. There's no charge for this service. Then dial the call yourself and save up to 50% of the cost of a person-to-person ca II. 



Friday, April 7, 1972 the observer 
7 

Viet youths slain alter brief victory 
by Fox Butterfield 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
On Highway 1, near Quangtri City, South Vietnam, 
April 5 --Private Hoang Van Hai's platoon of North Vietnamese soldiers cut this vital highway linking embattled Quangtri City with the rest of Vietnam todav. The 15 Communist soldiers stopped all traffic for five hours,but they paid theprice. Only Private Hai was not killed, and he was later captured by govern­
ment militia. 
Hai, a slight 16-year-old, said he had crossed the 
demilitarized zone into South Vietnam last week. 
"They did not tell us why, we only knew we were to 
hold the road," he said quietly as he looked at the fallen 
bodies of his companions, all 15-and 16-year-olds like 
himself. 

This morning's attack, five miles south of Quangtri 
City, represents a new phase in North Vietnam's major 
offensive, American officers near here believe. 
With their massive frontal assault toward Quangtri 
city stopped by South Vietnamese marines on the Cua 
Viet River since Monday, the communists have now 
begun infiltrating around Quangtri in smaller groups. 
The only troops to oppose them along the highway are 
regional and popular forces militia, because all 
regular South Vietnamese troops have been rushed up 
to reinforce the front line. 
Today the often maligned militia fought carefully, 
but well enough to retake the road. They lost only two 
wounded. 

The North Vietnamese had moved in behind an old French bridge during the night and dug trenches on either side of the road to enable them to fire on passing traffic. The terrain here is low, white sand dunes covered with scrub trees, and Private Hai's platoon was well-dug in by daybreak. 
Firing their Chinese-made AK-47 assault rivles and B-40 rocket grenades, they backed traffic almost down to Hue, 35 miles to the South. Trucks loaded with ammunition and gasoline to resupply the front stood bumper to bumper in a massive traffic jam. 
South Vietnamese Air Force helicopters flew overhead, but for reasons unknown to the militia on he ground, did not fire on the North Vietnamese. 
The captain in charge of the militia kept. calling in reinforcements from nearby villages for several hours, until he had about 150 soldiers east of the road. They moved in slowly on the enemy, firing a stream of American made M-79 grenades.
Suddenly the surviving North Vietnamese began to retreat, figures dressed in green running across the highway and through the sand dunes. "We've got them, we've got them," yelled the militiamen 
One badly wounded North Vietnamese soldier, his body pierced by fragments from a grenade, tried to speak to the government troops as they stood around him. "Let me kill him," a militiaman said, as he kicked the wounded man. Intensive North Vietnamese shellings have wiped out whole villages in Quangtri province, the northernmost in South Vietnam. 
J 
J 
j j J 
) 
.t 
1 1 
j l 
j ~ 
1 



Juicy. 
Oranges. Lemons. Limes. Gallo mixes all these flavors together in good red wine to create Spanada. Chill it. Or splash it on the rocks. Just bite into a slice of Spanada. You'll know why we call it juicy. 
California grape wine and nil!lJraJ fnut !lavon; Gallo Vineyards Modesto. California 
r­
' 

by Joe Raymond and Mike Baum 
Planning a pilgrimage similar to the one Christ made during Holy Week, Gail Pressburg, Mike Segal, and Paul Mayer, leaders of the Harrisburg 8 Defense Committee held "Holy Week in Harrisburg." 
Emphasizing similarities between Christ's trial before Pilate and the 
,. ·-.,_ 
Harrisburg Eight's refusal to defend themselves before District Judge R.
,( 
Dixon Herman. the organizers were able to bring large crowds to 
demonstrations, protests, vigils, and non violent resistance, which was to 

"energize the anti-war movement and build a new society." 
The planned action started Plam Sunday, with a parade from the State Capitol to a Mexican War monument. Anthony Scoblick, a defendant, spoke about his arrest by the FBI to a crowd of approximately 3,000. 
Explaining their decison not to present a defense at the trial, Scoblick echoed the points of Sr. Elizabeth McAlister's "Outline of Points", written during the March 24th court session. 
Sketchy and fragmented, Sr. McAlister's outline read, "The respc nse of silence seems the best response to the illegitimacy of this indictment, of this process, of this government."Under the heading "WHY" she placed: --Governments case is essentially false and they have been unable to prove it... --the government would try to use the defense case as a fishing expedition using testimony given here as fuel for future prosecutions(thus meaning of the frequent references to the note taking of Agents Anderson and MenzelL.."We need not, indeed in interest of our friends, must not cooperate." 
( --We've been denied motion to present before the jury evidence dealing with discriminatory enforcement which would have enabled us in our ( defense to make a case against the government." --We've been denied our motion for equal immunity which would have
(, 
enabled us to put on witnesses." 
? 
--"Jury home for Easter-resisted sequestration and rejoice in this." I 
') Sr. McAlister noted that the defense position entailed a "legal risk" in 

that it jeopardized their chances for aquittal and that "there was not unanimity among us." 
Monday, March 27 and Tuesday, March 28 were quiet days for Holy Week organizers. Planned workshops were held to help organize people t return home and start the "non-violent revolution." 
These workshops covered a field of discussion, ranging from "anti­corporate action , "war tax resistance" and "Destruction of Property and Sabotage" to "Free Schools" "Food Coops", "Alternatives in Psychiatry" and "High School Organizing." 
At the same time in the courtroom, the defense was starting its presentation. 
Wednesday saw one of the highlights of the week's activities when 166 seminarians many of them members of the National Union of Theological Students and Seminarians, surrounded the federal Building, site of the trial. 
Linking arms before a bright silver chain stretched before the building, the protestors presented a physical barrier to stop the trial. Twenty police officers, two police vans symbolically and physically cut the linked chain at four points, explaining that it violated city fire ordinances. 
With the seminarians reading prayers, offering flowers to police, singing songs-"Give Peace a chance" ... "Amen"... "We Shall Not be Moved" -they were arrested. Eventually all but fifty were released late Wednesay night with light five day sentences, or fifty dollar fines. 
At the same time, in the courtroom, former Attorney General Ramsey Clarck, and attorney Leonard Boudin were presenting the defense's summation. 
Boudin stated that htis trial, "is not the first word of perjurors, liars, , but I'm to. Boyd Douglas, a · of the State. "scoundrel", a " a "man with 
Clark claimed Berrigan, acting which draft boarq: 
r' were carried out. Cristo cotuwiVI"' r' Thursday the fini~~ summ~tion, and the judge gave the 
r' 
( thebyjurymanyat of2:0~edeJ_...·ri···. nc ..·.·workshops .
.. 7 p·n.'.~.... • .• e. organizers pl..a.nn··.·.e····d·· •
~s .. On Thursd~y night, defendants r' ste~. E~.~·!!·· · ..
.~ NeiU\'IcL.aau.ghhn skp~-.e,. to 600 peop.le
bn~rch m . .· r . urg'S""g~. .., .an engaging sp aklr a . .. . "I was a ·. . . very 
,, 
some 
becm~e fence, and 43 in green army. buses. T statement of the base posed no threat to the sec 

with a march of 15,000 .....,.,~''" Davis, and all "politi 
such as Daniel Ellsberg, R Berrigan, and Fania Jor for support of the Ha 

apply the Treason of Judas, Boyd Douglas and the trial of forceful address. Week in Harrisburg. the 

and the teachers, to go a t Philip has spent three y 
nstead of children. Tell they ef)dured the kanga of Harrisburg. how 
. priests, and that this ldren that at such t 
. And above all. for raised from the dead ou came to understan 
born a little," Berrigan 

the observer Friday, April 7, 1972
8 

Ha 
'' • • • tell them 
that prison may be honorable and freedom isgrace" 

ell them the passion story of Harrisbur~ 
9

Friday, April 7, 1972 the observer 



trrishurg • • • 
• 

over?.. 
j 
j 
l 
j 



(Exclusive photos by Joe Raymond) 

rY'' 
~ 
-
-~ 
by Duncan Spencer 

<c> 1972 New York Times HARRISBURG, PA., April 6-Berrigan Trial jurors said there was a floating majority for acquittal throughout the record-breaking , deliberations that led to a hung jury and guilty verdicts on minor counts for the Rev. Philip Berrigan and Sister Elizabeth McAlister. A jury slant in that direction stunned defense lawyers who felt they were hanging on one or two stubborn paneli'lts. 
Lawrence. Evans. of Dillsburg, Pa., the owner of a supermarket and 
one of only three men on the jury, said last night that as many as seven 
jurors at one time were for acquittal. "It was pretty constant 
throughout," he said. 
Evans said one of the women jurors whom he would not name 
"wouldn't have voted guilty if they had all confessed." 
But another juror, Vera Thompson, the only black, said unequivocably: 
''Boyd Douglas was the reason you had a jung jury.'' 
She said some jurors never believed Douglas from the start as he 
outlined his involvement as a double agent, pretending to be a friend and 
fellow peace activist with the jailed priest but sending letters and in­
formation to the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Much of the govern­
ment's case.hinged on Douglas's testimony. 
Two of the Harrsiburg 7 were convicted yesterday of smuggling letters 
in and out of a federal prison, an a strained jury, exhausted after 59 hours 
of deliberation, could still not agree whether the antiwar activists had 
conspired to kidnap Henry A. Kissinger, blow up generators in capitol hill 
heating ducts, or raid draft boards in nine sites. 
The others, who may face retrial, are: the Rev. Neil McLaughlin, 31, of Baltimore; Anthony Scoblick, 31, a former priest; his wife, Mary Cain Scoblic, 33, who was a nun for 13 years before her marriage; the Rev. Joseph Wenderoth, 36, of Baltimore; Eqbal Ahmad, a Pakistani (and the only non-Catholic among th defendants) who is a scholar annd lecturer in Chicago. 
The Jury also struggled in a deadlock on two counts charging that Berrigan and Sister Elizabeth sent threatening letters about Kissinger. The judge dismiseed the jury and prosecution officals will deliberate whether to pursue the charges anew. 
From a case which had shocked the nation, a verdict came down on smuggling alone, a charge not even related to the controversy and national attention the trial had attracted. 
Berrigan and Sister Elizabeth stand liable to· huge maximum sen­tences, 40 and 30 years respectively, but defense lawyers were confident yesterday that recent changes in the laws of prison contraband will alter that. 
Defense attorney Leonard Boudin called the verdict "a victory" and others said the failure of the conspiracy charge to convince the jury was a strong rebuff to the prosecution, the FBI, its director, J. Edgar Hoover, and the President as well, but the deadlock produced a widely admitted feeling of frustration and failure. 
There was no victory mood, even though the crowd outside the courthouse, young people who have waited 24 hours a day through all the late winter weather, sent up a raucus cheer when the pale nun walked out into the cold. 
She is still free on $10,000 bond while the government ponders its decision on whether or not to retry the conspiracy charge. Berrgian was returned to prison where he is serving a sentence for a previous con­viction . 
. She called the outcome"somethingof a victory." Defense lawyers said immediately after the verdict that a hearing would be held 
hf": ·, May 2 to argue the question oo selective prosecutiOn, a ddense to knock down the 
~··-·--=====~~:.::..======--~~~.;;........iililiiiiiiiliiliiliiliiiiiiiiiiiliiiiilill--· 


the observer Friday, April 7, 1972
10 
•





1ew oint--acu 
ty 

Two replies to: 

The perspective on Notre Dame taken by student demands tend to undermine any thirty-one of our colleagues and friends on college or university. March 14th is one that we cannot let pass In our view, we have encountered more without comment. While respecting the than usual candor in the Provost's sincere concern for Notre Dame that led statements of academic policies and of the them to agree substantially with this grounds for formulating such policies. We
r 
statement, we find it misleading in the do not understand these to be inflexible, yet overall view it presents of academic policies we realize that such policies are since the institution of the Office of Provost. meaningless if every strongly felt demand At its best, the letter of our colleagues gives becomes the occasion for an exception. ~n an inadequate picture of the past, of the this respect, we appreciate the necessity for present and, we hope, of the future of Notre a University policy that prevents depart­Dame. At its worst, it can be seen as an ments from filling up with tenured members attempt to intimidate administrative efforts and foreclosing for long periods the to lead Notre Dame to coherent general possibility of attracting and keeping ex­academic policies and to put primary blame cellent young faculty. Most of us also on the current administration for tensions welcome teacher evaluation by students as and problems, most of which are properly one important ingredient in determining the 
f attributed to circumstances all too familiar quality of a faculty member's teaching and to most of us --the end of an era of academic accordingly whether he should be retained expansion for the University, the shortage and promoted at Notre Dame. We note that in faculty positions throughout the country the present evaluation questionnaire is and the financial position of the University. under study by a University Committee, and In the face of such circumstances, we are we trust that we will continue to improve encouraged by many of the current efforts this instrument and to assess its ef­of the academic administrators. In short, fectiveness. Finally, we welcome a general we see no "decline," no "deteriorating policy regarding equity in the respon­future" for Notre Dame but rather vigorous sibilities expected of each faculty member. and reasonable and even courageous moves The Provost's recent statement on teaching to permit Notre Dame to educate well hours for faculty is no absolute rule but the despite the challenging enviornment of the attempt to make a general policy 1970's. Nor do we foresee a loss of "a sense meaningful. of equality, cordiality and mutual respect" It is important that we state that we are among faculty or the development of "a not all in favor of all aspects of every caste system." academic policy at Notre Dame. We have There are a number of aspects of the differences, sometimes sharp differences, letter of our colleagues which call for with the Provost and other administrators. specific consideration. The idea that We expect no less when intelligent people democratic self-government operated here are doing their best in a context that in the 1960's only to be lost in the early 1970's requires common policies. We will continue is simply false. Moreover, none of us would to put our complete efforts into the com­welcome a situation productive of an un­mittee work of this University, but when our checked pluralism that is detrimental to the carefully worked out recommendations are interests of the whole University. Let us opposed in the administration, we expect hope that all realize that administrators the reasons for the exercise of ad­vacillating in insecurity and bending readily ministrative prerogative. Such interchange to unreasonable faculty prerogatives or is the necessary basis for both the faculty 
Many of us think that the recent statement a reversal immediately takes place. on "The Future of Notre Dame" is an in­The quota system, I admit, does create temperate and obscure attack on the some problems. But it does not lead to Provost. "his style" and policies. To blame alienation between tenured and untenured all that is wrong at the University on the faculty. or make them antagonistic to each Provost, from the comedy of the recent other. Except for a brief period in the mid student body elections to the dictatorial '60's. promotion has always been difficult at procedures of department heads and the Notre Dame and other universities. And the limitations of the course evaluations is a "hard decisions" are shared by depart­little extreme. mental committees, Dean, and Provost. In 
I feel that the Provost has been more a sense, there has always been a quota responsive to, and candid towards the system. It is inherent in the system of faculty than any other high administrative tenure itself. There are only so many slots officer at the University in the last twenty­to be filled. The old faculty retire or five years. The improvement in faculty sometimes transfer to other universities. fringe benefits (a small area to which I have New faculty arrive and, in most cases, in 
The future.· • • 
ANOTHER GROUP LETTER 
and  administratiors  improving  their  un­ Herbert L. Johnston  
derstanding of the nature of their respon­ Associate Professor of Philosophy  
sibilities, and, in turn, improving the learning community that is Notre Dame.  Stephen D. Kertesz Professor of Government  

Randolph J. Klawiter 


Associate Professor of Modern Languages 
signed: 

Richard A. Lamanna Associate Professor of Sociology
Approved in substance by, 
Robert A. Leader Professor of Art 

Alfons J. Beitzinger Professor of Government William T. Liu Professor of SociologyOtto Bird University Professor John J. Lyon Associate Professor, General ProgramRobert E. Burns Associate Professor of History Ralph M. Mcinerny Professor of PhilosophyDavid B. Burrell, C.S.C. Associate Professor of Philosophy & Theology Paul E. Mclane Professor of EnglishRaymond F. Cour, C.S.C. Professor of Government Ernan McMullin Professor of PhilosophyMichael J. Crowe Associate Professor, General Program Walter J. Nicgorski Associate Professor, General ProgramGregory L. Curme Associate Professor of Economics Gerhart Niemeyer Professor of GovernmentJames M. Daschbach Associate Professor of Aerospace & Mechanical 

Robert D. Nuner
Engineering 

j
Associate Professor of Modern Languages 
Cornelius F. Delaney I 
Bernard P. Norling

Assistant Professor of Philosophy Associate Professor of History 
Bobby J. Farrow 
John A. Oesterle

Associate Professor of Psychology Professor of Philosophy 
Thomas S. Fern 
Charles F. Roedig

Associate Professor of Art Associate Professor of Modern Languages 
Nicholas F. Fiore 
Stephen T. Worland

Associate Professor of Metallurgical 
Associate Professor of EconomicsEngineering 
Matthew A. Fizsimons Professor of History 

Philip J. Gleason copies to: Associate Professor of History Same distribution as the first letter. 


AND A PERSONAL REPLY 
streamlined and improved.) I doubt very clearly, and then let the vote be taken. much whether, in regard to the evaluations, Many faculty do not approve of course many faculty radically alter their teaching evaluations; others (and sometimes for styles in order to become popular or attain quite selfish reasons) do not like the quota good grades --or drop their "Socratic system; still others would not rate Father pretense of ignorance" and disparage the Burtchaell too hihg in a popularity contest. authorities in their fields in order to appear But he is not trying to be popular. Some of learned. his policies are necessary if the University 
And if department heads become is to survive. So too, most of us would prefer authoritarian and consult little with their a 6 to 3 hour hour, rather than a 9 hour,departments, I would be inclined to blame teaching load, but if the greater teaching them --their own personalities and styles -load helps the University to stay afloat not the "filtered down" sha:Jow of the financially, we are happy to cooperate. Provost. It is the style of some department Furthermore, until I have more in­heads to consult; of others, not to consult formation, I am not inclined to blame and to rely on executive committees or Father Burtchaell for the selection of cer­
r 
devoted some efforts) recently announced turn become tenured. There are times, as carefully chosen advisors. If all depart­tain halls for women (rather than other by the Provost, has been remarkable. And now. when promotion becomes more 
ments were models of democratic halls> or the failure of the merger with St.
-·' no less remarkable is the clear-eut way in competitive and difficult, and we all are procedure. theoretically at least there Mary's. which the Provost gives his rationale for sympathetically aware of the anxieties of might be some "filtering-up" process by 
Spring is a cruel period. Some students in
administrative decisions, invites discussion our younger colleagues and know they are which the rigors of administrative decision­•
order to let off steam, make panty-raids on and criticism --even a better policy if the based on on the sternest of realities. making could be softened. 
the nearest women's college. Facultyfaculty can suggest one -and proposes to Course evaluations have their limitations, Those who signed the original letter did so members shrug off winter by signing
drop his plans if they prove unworkable. and their merits. too. If the department for a number of different reasons. Some I 
manifestoes directed against Nixon, FatherNotre Dame has more democratic self­head. departmental committees, and the have talked to are sorry that they signed, for Burtchaell, or the Daly machine. But allgovernment than ever before. Students as Dean can use them, it is only logical that the they now realize implications in the sen­
this. I imagine, is just one of the games ofwell as untenured faculty are now members Provost tthe highest academic officer> can timents and rhetoric that, in their haste, Spring. Let us cheer up! Football, nippyof most university policy committees. When also view them. for presumably they are they were not fully aware of. And if the Autumn. and barren Winter are not farit is pointed out that an administrative part of the evidence on which tenure may Executive Committee of the Faculty Senate ahead. so let's enjoy the season's difference. 
decision is not well thought out <as in the (or may not) be granted. lAnd the wants to poll the faculty, they should isolate adoption of the recent university calendar), evaluations are in the process of being the separate points of the letter, state them 

Paul E. McLane 
--------------------------------------~ 
., 

Friday, April 7, 1972 the observer 1 1 
Harris: I cautious optiJniszn' 

A~nend~nent's future uncertain 
by Dean Mayors 
Th·e office of Senator Fred Harris ex­
pressed "cautious optimism" yesterday 
over the future of an amendment introduced 
by the Oklahoma Democrat as part of the 
Senate Higher Education Act. 
The amendment was passed by the Senate 
on February 29 and expresses Congress' 
AHCA meeting slated at ND 
Hebel priests, Irish identity, Anglican-Catholic reunion thoughts and clergy in Russia will be topics at a meeting of the American Catholic Historical Association <ACHA >at the University of Notre 
Dame on April 7 and 8. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University, and Prof. Astrik L. Gabriel, director of the Mediaeval Institute and ACHA vice presdient, will open sessions in the Center for Continuing Education at 1:30 p.m. April 7. Topic for this meeting will be "Priests in Russia,l903 -1960." Conducted tours of the 
Mediaeval Institute and the 
American Catholicism collection of the Notre Dame Archives will follow. Monsignor John Tracy Ellis will lead a discussion at 8 
p.m. when a panel of Irish and ethnic history specialists explore "Catholicism and Irish Identity" in both Ireland and America. 
Papers analyzing the thoughts of Cardinaf Newman and the prospects of Anglican-Catholic reunion will be presented for discpssion at 9 a.m. on Saturday, April 8. Professor Albert C. Outler of Southern Methodist University and president of ACHA will speak at a noon luncheon in the Morris Inn. 
HE HAD THE VISION••• 

founded in I85H by Isaac Hecker, they were the first religious Community of priests established in North Am~:rica by an American and for Americans. 
Father Hecker, who was a cen­tury ahead of his time. wanted Paulists to be free of compul­sory activities so they could be tlcxiblc enough to meet the needs of the Church in every age as they arose. 
Today·s Paulist can be as in­volved as he wants to be. He is given the freedom to use his own talents to do his own thing. He may be a parish priest, an edu­cator or a press, radio or televi­sion personality. 
Father Hecker discovered the value of communications early. With his monthly publications and pamphlets. he laid the foundation for the Paulist /New­man Press. the country's largest publisher and distributor of Catholic literature. 
Today. Father Hecker's vision and foresight have led to the es­tablishment of Paulist radio. tele­vision and film centers on a scale that perhaps, not even he dreamed of. 
But then. he had the vision. He showed us the way. For more information on the Paulists. write to: Rev. Donald 
C. Campbell, Vocation Director, Room 500. 
(.)ClUistfothers. 
415 West 59th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10019 
· hope that ·students across the country 
become  "full-voting"  members  of  the  
boards  of  trustees  of  all  institutions  of  
higher education.  

Steve Perlingori, an aide to the Senator who drafted the amendment, explained that the Higher Education Act has "just been referred to a special committee composed of of both House and Senate conferees. We believe that Senator Harris' amendment will pass this legislative hurdle because of the pressure placed on the committee as a result of the overwhelming support the amendment received in the Senate." The amendment passed the Senate by a 66 to 28 margin. 
A House version of the Higher Education Act is also being considered by the com­mittee, but it does not contain a section specifically dealing with the seating of students on college boards of trustees. Should the House bill emerge from the committee intact, Harris' efforts to include his amendment in the Senate Higher Education Act will have been fruitless. 
The Senator's assistants believe that this will not happen, however, because the conferees currently on the committee were appointed by the Senate. They feel that the conferees will merely echo the sentiments of the Senate. 
The sentiments of the conferees also carry added weight because Harris' amendment was passed by a roll call vote in the Senate, signifying that the senators were willing to "publicly go on record" in support of the measure. Influential senators such as William Proxmire, George McClellan, Jacob Javits, Edmund Muskie, George McGovern, and Edward Kennedy all voted in favor of the amendment. Significantly absent from the roll of "yeas" were the names of William Fulbright and Barry Goldwater. Goldwater voted against the amendment, and Fulbright did not vote OJl the amendment. 
Another possible stumbling block for Harris' amendment is the element of time. 
The  Senate  Higher  Education Act  also  
contains  the  controversial  school  busing  
amendment  that  is  currently  being  

discussed by the Senate committee. Because of the controversial nature of the busing amendment, Senator Harris' assistants fear that it will be sometime before their amendment is considered by the conferees, if it is considered at all. 
The section of the Harris amendment discussing students and boards of trustees carries no force of law. It only "en­courages'' student participation on the governing boards of instututions of higher learning and recommends that "at least one student membber" serve on each college board of trustees. The amendment does empower the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare to issue a report to Congress concerning the possibilities of student representation on boards of trustees that would be due one year from the enactment of the bill. 
Senator Harris' amendment was co­sponsored by Senators Hattke, McGovern, Handolph, and Mondale. Moderate and conservative senators who are coming up for re-election in 1972 voted for the Harris amendment in overwhelming numbers, even in the face of stiff opposition from the ranking Republican conservative, Peter Dominick of Colorado. Of the 33 senators up for re-election in November, only 5 voted against the bill. 
The National Student Lobby worked on the Harris amendment while it was under Senate consideration. In addition, several Senators spoke in behalf of the amendment just minutes before the final vote. Senator Javits of New York commented, "I think it is important that students should have a place on the governing boards of colleges ... ! shall vote for and support this amendment." 
After the victory on the Senate floor, Harris expressed his hope that students would follow through with continued lob­bying for his amendment and other aspects of the Higher Education Act. 

The Equitable Lofe Assurane• Society of the Unoted States. New York, N.Y. Art Equ•l Opportunity Employer. MtF 
For free 18" x 24" nnc:~... r "' tt1i~ ~w"rti~rnent. writf>: The Equitable, De~. F, G.P.O. Box 1170. New Ytvk. N.Y 1 
1 
THE EQUITABLE 



Friday, April 7, 1972

12 
the observer 
\ Tragedy in Northern Ireland: innocent victims 
" 
\ 
\ 
by Bernard Weinraub August, 1969--the Groveses and the will never see again. under the eyes. They were so kind. much regretted." Although an
\ 
<c> 1972 New York Times Nicholls emer2e as two couples "There's no hope," said Mrs. so very kind.'' investigation was planned, no\ \ whose anguish, like so many others, Groves. "The professors at the Mrs. Groves lives in a gray stone ·findings have been announced yet. \ The agony of Northern Ireland is is stark and terrible. hospital say there's nothing in the house at 79 Tullymore Gardens, a "I was in Royal Victoria 
borne every day by Mr. and Mrs. The Nicholls only child, a 17-world anybody can do." meandering street in the Catholic Hospital two weeks," said Mrs.\ William Groves and Mr. and Mrs. month-old son, Colin, was killed in Twenty-two bones in her face stronghold of Andersontown. Once Groves. "We never even got an
.\ 
Jackie Nicholl. an explosion Dec. 11 on the were broken. "I was on the a lively, agressive woman, whose analogy from the Army." 
Mr. and Mrs. Groves, who are Snankill Road, the youngest bomb operating table five hours," said life revolved around her family Every mornmg at 9 am, with the .\ ~ Roman Catholic, and Mr. and Mrs. victim of Northern Ireland's strife. the 51-year-old housewife. "Five and her church, Mrs. Groves sits help of a daughter, she attends Nicholl, who are protestant, are Mrs. Emily Groves, the mother of professors were with me. They stiffly now in the living room, Mass at a nearby church. "I have
.\ 
innocent victims of war. Out of the 10 children, the youngest aged gave me skin graft for my face. sipping tea, wearing dark glasses, no bitterness against the soldier\ numbing toll of casulties that five, was shot in the face with a They gave me plastic surgery for speaking quietly. Her husband, and I just say God forgive him,"\ climb daily--291 have died since rubber bullet on November 4. She my nose. They gave me stitching William, an electricity lineman, said Mrs. Groves..\ \ sits beside her each morning. "My religion has helped me. I \ "It all happened so quickly," she accept the will of God. I believe \ said. God makes the right decisions, 

~ Sexuality discussions set
~ The Army itself said in a that he knows and cares. I never 
statement shortly after the in­lose hope. I am going to Lourdes in :\ Notre Dame and St. Mary's The leaders for ths group have Sign ups for the Notre Dame -cident that "It was ... never the July. I may neve( get my sight back ~ students will have the chance to been well trained, according to based sessions will be in Gian­intention that Mrs. Groves should but I may get the courage to accept\ discuss aspects of human sexuality Giantonio. They have received tonio's office, 100B of the suffer from injury, and the fact this. It'll help me right the 
~ 
in a pilot project designed by Dr. training in the topics that will be Psychology Building. St. Mary's that she was seriously is very depression." Gerald Giantonio of the ND, discussed. The Counseling Center Counseling will have sign ups in 164 \ psychology department. on campus was utilized in LeMans. The times for both offices \ Giantonio explained that the preparing them to lead group will be noon to four o'clock on 
Starts TONIGHT! 
programs are in part an answer to sessions. Friday, Saturday, and Monday. 
OPEN 

~ 
the ignorance about sexuality that Two sessions will be held on Any questions can be answered he noted in several of the General each campus. Since the size of the by calling Giantonio (7763) or the 7:00 Psychology courses that he has groups is limited, anyone in­assistant to the Director of \ taught. Last semester, he led a terested must sign up ahead of Counselling (4835) during· the 
\ freshman seminar based on time. a b0ve hours. 
human sexuality, and is teaching an upper-division course in the area this semester. 
Teams of Notre Dame and· St. Mary's students will be leading each of the four groups that are planned. Giantonio hopes to limit the size of each group to sixteen people. 
Each group will meet four times for two hour sessions. About a half hour of each meeting will be a presentation of information by the two co-leaders. The rest of the time will be devoted to open discussion. 
Each discussion will be devoted. to a different topic. They will cover birth-control, venereal disease, homosexuality, and pre­marital sex. Although the sessions will involve presentations by the
\ 
leaders, they are not lectures.
\ 
Giantonio emphasized that the groups are not going to become sexual encounter groups demanding the participants to "bare their souls." They are an attempt to disseminate in-­formation . 
.\. -.·· 
AAS Presents 
Clint Eastwood in 
Hang 'Em High 
Mon. Apr. 1q· 
6 :30 8 : 45 II :00 Admin $1.00 Engin. Audit 
Last Grasp Gasps! 
"No money  No  •mov1eII  
This week:  cancelled  
Next week:  

THE WRONG BOX 
: THE CLASSIC : 
~ 
CAC Fund Raising Film Series presents
~ 
) 
\ 


Story of human relationships told against a background of war and history. Friday & Saturday April 7 & 8 

7& 10 pm Engineering Auditorium Admission $1.50 Fund Raisin Fil1n Patrons free! 
~.................
------------------------------------------~ 


. Friday, April 7, 1972 the observer 1 3 
Raza assume responsibility to 
La Raza 
coordinate and develop the third
Notes from all over 
party movement of La Raza The Mid-West Council of La Unida. Raza, housed in the Urban Studies --That election laws be challenged 
Celebration 
"Women at St. Mary's -A Celebration of Self," a program of activities to promote .awareness of the challenges for women in community, will occur April 11 to 13 on the St. Mary's campus, declared the co-ordinators, Ann Dunn and Father Roger Cormier. 
The events will be highlighted by an all-sclool picnic with live music during Tuesday lunch. Other events during the celebration will be a keynote address by Maureen Considin~ of the Buffalo Five, a special Stapleton Mass Tuesday night, a dance Wednesday night and a closing mass on Thursday night. 
Throughout the three days, there will be faculty-student dining, and at least twenty "rap sessions." 
Celebration activities will range from the intellectual and in­spirational to the playful. Spon­taneity is being encouraged. One of the zaniest stunts planned so far is a bicycle-balloon parade through and around Tuesday's picnickers, led by SBP Jean Seymour on her Moulton-Stowaway bike. 
Inaugural address to reveal Kersten oligarchy plans 
by Anthony Abowd 
New Student Body President R. Calhoun Kersten is not even hin­ting what is planned for student government until his inauguration tonight. The ceremony starts at 1:oo p.m. on the front steps of the Administration Building. 
"1 have been thinking for weeks about how to get all the privileges of the office with none of the responsibilities." the "Prime Mover" said. He added that this will be clarified in his Inaugural address. 
Kersten invited the student body to his Coronation and Inaugural Ball. <The invitation was printed in yesterday's Observer. Kersten announced several changes since that statement. 
"Chapped Lips" will be playing at the Inaugural Ball instead of "Ox Pedal", as hai:i been planned. Formal attire, which is required, consists of footwear and a tie, according to Kersten. 
"I urge everyone to come with high spirits." the 'Prime Mover'' said. lie asked that all the illiterate rabble gather in front of the Administration Building by 
7:00 p.m. "I will make an ap­propriate entrance at that time," he said. The Inaugural Ball in LaFortune will follow immediately 
. after the coronation cer.rmonies. 

Working with people in 
AFRICA 
is what it's all about 
.Join a team of dedicated priests and brothers in the largest missionary society on the continent of Africa. The White Fathers of Africa derive their name from their tradi­tional white habit which has come to represent to Africans not only the word but the helping hand of Christ. 
SEND FOR COMPLETE ~ 
INFORMATION ~ 
Fr. Joseph E. Hebert W.F. White Fathers of Africa 2020 West Morse Avenue 
8
Chicago, Illinois 60645 
NAMe--------------­
ADDRE~------------­
CITY---------------­STAT~:.------ZIP___ 
AG=---------------­
The celebration is supported by the St. Mary's Campus Ministry and the Human Affairs Com­mission. It has been endorsed by President-designate, Dr. Edward Henry, Student Body President Jean Seymour and Dr. Paul Messbarger, chairman of the faculty assembly. 
"We want people to come out of themselves and meet the people of St. Mary's. We believe this meeitng in celebration will lead to a greater awareness of the power of community and the potential within individuals," said Fr. Cormier. 
Dunn added that "we want to create an atmosphere of festive spirit and openness to dialogue. People discover their self and grow through involvement with other people. We're simply getting in­dividuals together and hoping to create community." 
"patch work quilt" 

University of Notre Dame education expert has been calleg upon Indiana Governor Edgar Whitcomb to form a task force to remedy the "patchwork quilt"· of state school financing. 
Dr. Richard H. Metzcus, an 
WhydoeStit General Electric talkabout thermal pollutionwhentheytalkaboutnuclearpowerplants? 
General Electric has been talking nuclear powe1· plants eve1· since we pioneered them in the fifties. And we think they can help solve America's energy 1)l'oblems in the 70's and 80's. Bt1t \Ye're also aware that nuclear 
~. powe1· has problems of its own. · · · · · P1~oblems wm·th talking about. Like the environment. Aetually, \Ve felt one of the gTeatest advantages of nuclear P?Wer was environ­mental. 
t'""'-'--L.L.l<'-..(U-14W.u..J..~ 

Unlike fossil-ftreled power plants, there is no smoke to pollute the air. 
But like fossil-fueled plants, there is warmed \Yater released to su1·­rounding waterways. 
Cooling it. r 
\Ve l'ecognize thermal pollution as a serious problem. And G E and Amer­
ica's utilities are worldng· on thermal 
c -~--=,__--.,., vantao·es of nuclear }lOWer far oilt­
problems at nuclear sites·· ~ 
on a plant-by-plant basis. 
l\Iany people don't realize, fo1· example, that utilities are required by· federal law to desig-n and 
operate their plants with­in temperature limits prescribed hy the states. 
So utilitie~ are spend­ing millions of doll<n·s on dilution control s~·stems, cooling ponds and cooling to\\·ers to-comply. 
But. in addition. util­
ities are sponsoring basic"------='---lll--...:.11 tl'ic, Dept. 901-CN·, 570 Lexington research on heat exchange and its ef-Avenue, ~ew Ym·k, N. Y 10022. · 
GENERALI/j ELECTRIC 
assistant professor of education at the University, pointed out in a letter to Whitcomb the im­plications for Indiana of the recent California Supreme Court decision against using local property taxes to finance education. 
"Indiana is among the top third of all states in dependence upon local property taxes for school revenue," Metzcus wrote, "and the state ranks 4oth among all states in the extent of equalization achieved by state aid." 
Metzcus said any new plan for financing public elementary and secondary schooling in Indiana needs to consider "all of the present resources available -state, local, and federal -and all of the operational units using the resources." To solve complex allocation problems, the educational researcher advocated use of linear programming, a technique employed by business, industry and the military. 
He urged the Governor and Indiana Superintendent of Public Instruction John Loughlin to form a task force composed of educators, school administrators, legislators, and a representative of the Governor's Office. 
.~~, !weigh the disadvantages. 
:grfDD@ \Vhy are we running-this ad? 
000k It's one ad of a series on the problems ~ e'i/0 , of man and his environment today. ~~ i IAnd the ways technology is helping to 
@@ l'il@ soh·e them. 
~~ The problems of Olll' enYironment 
~j ~~ 1 not just nuclear power problems) 
~@~ ~ concern us because thev will <1ffect the
11 

~ ~ D© ~ future of this countr~· ·and this planet. @""' II \Ve have a ~take in that future. As lll.'>Oo.........u@ r businessmen. And. simply, as people. Ifyou are concerned too, \ve'cl like to hear from you. Write General Elec-
Institute at the University of Notre Dame, has announced several resolutions stemming from its first conference held recently in Muskegon, Mich. 
Called "Mi Raza Primero" (My People First), the meeting at­tracted over 500 Mexican and Puerto-Rican Americans from 16 states active in such various groups as the National Spanish­speaking Coalition, the Mexican­American Political Association, MECHA (A Mexican-American student group) as well as the Raza Unida political oartv. 
Resolutions included: 
--That the Mid-West Council of La 
Sohn in auto mishap 
oy Anthony Abowd riding in went out of control and 
The exodus of college students to flipped several times, accordin~ to Florida over Easter break ended Kevin O'Grady, aND student who tragically for one Notre Dame was in the car. None of the other freshman. four car passengers were injured. 
William Sohn, 19, of Holy Cross Semi-conscious for almost a Hall. remains seriously injured in week, Sohn was removed from a hospital near Daytona Beach, intensive care yesterday. His ~ Florida. He suffered a broken jaw parents travelled from his and a serious brain concussion hometown, Joliet, Illinois, to from an automobile wreck. Bunnel General Hospital in 
Sohn was travelling with several Florida. Doctors will not allow members of the ND rugby team on Sohn to be transported. Friday, March 31. _The car he was 
feet on aquatic life. More than 97 util­ities havebeen financially involved in over 300 such studies. 
Good effects? It's been found, in some cases, adding heat to \Vater can actually be bene­ficial. Warm irrigation water has ex­tended growing seasons. . ~ 
Warmwaterhas ... ~~ created new . a~~~~· 
~ --~...._.
. o. .i'o 

\Yintering ponds •. (, 4? • : ~ • o., .:,.<'"". '~ 
along water-"' ~~~~·~ fowl mip;ration 0l1r­route~. Florida \ '\"= is using it to grow shrimp and lobster. In Texas, it's inc·reasing the weight of comme1·cial catfish by a~ much as 500\{., 
\Vork to be done. Listing· these benefits is not to lwg the issue. Thermal effects remain a tough pt·oblem to solve at many sites. Each 
plant must be conside1·ed indisidu­ally, in its own environment, and this is being clone. 
General Electric, the utilities and 
environmentalists will continue to work hard. Because we think the ad­
and new rules written which in­clude bilingual ballots for New York, Texas, Colorado and California, reduced filing fees and lessened signature requirements. --An endorsement of the United Farm Workers boycott of lettuce 
not  bearing  the  Farm  Workers  
AFL-CIO Union Label.  
--Support  of  massive,  peaceful  

antiwar actions to bring all the American soldiers home from Vietnam. --Support for "our Latin American brothers and sisters who fill the jails of corrupt dictatorships . . . merely for having fought for the freedom of their people." 
I 2 ;:.. 
r··~~· 
\ 14 the observer Friday, April 7, 1972 
'-


Faley named new ND track coach 
<9:35.7),  finishing  behind  
nationally  ranked  Vol  ace  Doug  
Brown in both events.  NCAA in­ 

Donald Faley, the head track 
and cross country coach at East 
Proviso High School Maywood 
Ill., was named today to succeed 
Alex Wilson as the head track and cross country coach at the Univprsity of Notre Dame 
· 
Athletic Director Edward <Moose) Krause announced that Wilson, a former Olympian and a 22-year veteran at Notre Dame, will retire following the 1972 cross­country season. Wilson was named the 19', t NCA.\ Cross Country Coach of the Year. 
Faley, 35, will join the Notre Dame staff in the fall and coa\:h th€ cross-country team along with Wilson, who concludes his track career this spring. 
"I have a great deal of respect for Alex Wilson and the con­tribution he has made to the Notre Dame athletic program during the past 22 years. We will miss him in every way but Don Faley is an outstanding young coach," said Krause. 
Faley, a 1958 Notre Dame graduate, lettered for three years under Wilson while competing in the broad jump and the high hurdles. The Princeton, Ill. native received his Master's Degree in physical education from the University of Illinois in 1959 and then coached at East Moline, Ill. High School for three years before moving to Loras College, Dubuque, Iowa, as the track coach for the next six years. 
Faley was also the track and cross-country coach at Old Dominion Jniversity in Norfolk, Va. in 1968-69 before joining the Virginia State Department of Education in 1969. He returned to East Proviso High School last fall. 
Considered one of Notre Dame's greatest middle-distance runners and already voted into the Halls of 
' 
r~ame in both the United States
~­
(}{elms) and Canada, Wilson has 
\ produced numerous All-Americans 
\ . and championship teams in cross­country and indoor and outdoor track. Wilson returned to Notre Dame in 1950 from Loyola of Chicago where at one time or another he was the athletic director, an~ c?ach of the finals on sever~l oc_casions. Wi_lson basketball, swimmmg, track and has also won nme mdoor cc titles cross-country teams. He coached while plaring in the Indoor NCAA at Loy?la for 18 years. . , meet seven of e~ght years. In cross-
While at Notre Dame, Wilson s country, the lnsh have won seven outdoor track t~ams_ have won ~wo ~C titles, placed _among the top 10 Central Collegiate titles (1963, 64) m the NCAA 12 times and won one while placing high in the NCAA NCAA title in 1957. 
ND thine/ads host Army 
Notre Dame's trackmen will make their only home appearance of the season Saturday at Cartier Field, entertaining Army at 1 p.m. 
The Irish opened their season in Tennessee last week and coach Alex Wilson in his 22nd and final campaign, was pleased with the results except for one crucial in­jury. 
ND registered a 77-67 win at Middle Tennessee and then finished third behind Southeastern Conference champion Tennessee and Wisconsin at Knoxville on Saturday. But freshman sprinter Eric Penick, who posted victories in the 100 and 220 at Middle Ten­nessee, pulled a muscle in the 100 at Tennessee and will probably be out for the next month, including spring football in addition to track. 
.. Actually, we ran well at Ten­nessee. I was surprised with several of the efforts but our lack of depth hurt us," reasoned Wilson, who watched weightmen Greg Cortina (56-911.!) and Elio Polselli (178-8) register the lone victories at Tennessee. The Vols finished with 103 points, Wisconsin 50 and _ND 38. 
Distance runner Dan Dunne posted good efforts in the three mile (14:23.5) and steeplechase 
door champion Tom McMannon ran 14.1 in his first outdoor effort at Middle Tennessee but was second in 14.3 on the wet Tennessee track. 
Wilson also figures a key for the Irish will be the continued im­provement of Mike McMannon in the jumps. He managed a 23-10 long jump in Knoxville after going 46-9 in the triple earlier this week. 
Army. 6-5 during the indoor season, will be facing its first outdoor competition of the season. 






Jethro Toll 
in concert 
April 18 --8:30 pnt 
.. 
l \ 
First Ticket Sales 
~; 
f., 
.,( Friday (April 7) 
3:30 pnt Fiesta··Lounge 
'fickets: $5.50, $4.50, $2.75 
Student Union Social Commission 
The Cadets have been plagued by injuries the past month and sprint ace Tony Dedmont (9.6,21.4) may not run. Ron Madera (9.6,21.5) is healthy along with vaulter Tom Marks (15-1), miler Bob Curran <4:08) and quarter-miler Steve Hannan (49.4). 
Stickmen at Wooster 
by Andy Scantlebury 
The Notre Dame lacrosse cmb resumes action· this Saturday, traveling to Ohio to face Wooster College. 
Wooster stopped the Irish last year, 6-3, enroute to a 7-2 season. They were on the east coast during the Easter break, recording vic­tories over both Maryland University (Baltimore), and Baltimore Community College, a team ND coach Rich O'Leary refered to as "one of the better community college clubs in the Maryland area." · 
The red hot Irish will be without the services of defensive star Fred Morrison, who suffered a shoulder s~paration against Temple . City. His · replacement, Ernie Bergkessel, played brilliantly against Orange County, and he will start defensively with Bill Foley and Tim Baker. 
O'Leary called both clubs "evenly matched" and with their three game win streak on the line, the Irish look for a close contest. 
,-------·-··· 
NOTRE DAME BAND

SPRING 

c0 N cE R T 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM ST. MARY'S COLLEGE SUNDAY, APRIL 9, 1972,8:15 P.M. ADMISSION FREE 

,
HUGE & WILD DISCOUNTS • 
STEREO RECORDS & TAPES 
SPHDY SEIVICE • SEND FOI YOUI FREE liST 
THE STUDENT STOlE P.O. lOX 64 . IEDONDO lEACH, CALIFOINIA 90277 
NAME -------------------------------------­
ADDIESS 
ZIP ______ 
Bloodrock Cactus Potliquor 

in concert Tuesday, April 11 Morris Civic Auditorium 214 N. Michigan Ave. 
2 Shows: 6:30 and 9:30 
All tickets reserved: $6.00, $5.00, $4.00. Advance tickets at Morris Civic Box Office, 11--6 daily. For further 
information call: 232-6954 or 1721 


THE PROFESSIONALS 

BUIIT LANCASTER 
LEE MARVIN 
ROBERT RYAN JACK PALANCE 
RALPH BELLAMY 
~.;CIAUD[CAJiDINALE 
. ----.. M...ru.. 

Members free 
Knights of Columbus. 
Fri & Sat 

7' 9 : 15, 11 : 30 
Donation $1 .00 
I 

Friday, April 7, 1972 the observer 15 
ND Dine WIDS 6 of 10 In South 

second, and then Mark Schmitzinto center field for a double. ND The play of first baseman and co-captain Joe Larocca(29) was a major factor in Notre Dame's fine showing belted a two-run homer to straight­went from there to score two runs 
on the spring baseball trip. f II Th away center in the third.
in the first and five in the second 
· · D k s cause of ND's down a . e
against Murray's George Hopkins, scored the tle-breakmg run from N 4-Ar ansas tate 7 Arkansas State team assaulted ND 8 -• Delta State 10 and the Irish hung on the rest of the second base. A wet, muddy field and a hard-four Irish pitchers for 10 hits. Bill 
Notre Dame made good use ofway. Starter Ed Hrabcsak needed hitting Arkansas State squad Lucas started for the Irish, and
ND 6-Murray State 3 the long ball against Delta State ­help from Art Combs in the sixth, dumped Notre Dame's record to was tagged with the· loss. He cracking four home runs and onebut he earned the win for ND. the 3-2 level. A pre-game rain left allowed single runs in each of the
A pair of sophomores, Jim Noe the outfield soggy and partially . triple -but the Statesmen madeand Ken Shuster, paced Notre
The Irish did have to pay a price submerged, and Irish fielders first two innings, and then two m better use of an 18-hit attack and
Dame to an extra inning, 6-3 win in 
for their victory. Second baseman I. ped d t bled· th water the fifth. Relievers Art Combs, Ed some clutch relief pitching to down 
s 1p an s urn m e · bed
the nightcap of the double header. 
Tony Zappia re-separated his several times during the game. Lange, and Rich Eich finis up the lirsh.
Noe, on the mound, picked up his 
shoulder while trying to break up a But the water was not the only for ND· ND took an early 5-1 lead, but
first win of the season, and Shuster Arkansas State used seven
double play in the seventh inning, Delta erupted for eight in the fifth 
blasted an insurance home run for
and will p1·obably be out for the Fencers 9th pitchers and blanked the Irish until and the Irish could never quite season. ND in the top of the eighth. the sixth, when two wild pitches, a come back . . . despite two home ND led 3-2 going into the last of walk, a balk, and a pair of singles runs by Bob Reschan and one each
l·n NCAA's 
the seventh, but Murray tied it on produced two runs. ND scored by Tom Hansen and Joe LaRocca.


ND 7--Murray State 8 two walks, a base hit, and a twice again in the eighth, but the ND threatened in the ninth -they
Sabreman Ron Sollitto led the
sacrifice fly. The hosts made a bid third of three Arkansas double scored three times -but relieved
A heavy rain forced can­Irish fencing team to a ninth place 
to win it in their half of the seventh, plays killed the rally. Mike Payne (a California Angels
cellation of Notre Dame's finish in the NCAA Championships
but Larocca killed the rally by draftee) came on to fan Ken
scheduled twin-bill with Illinois­held during the spring break. ND 6--Christian Brothers 7
knocking down a hard liner and Schuster and win the game for the
Chicago Circle and Murray State, Notre Dame picked up 49 points,
turning it into an inning -ending Statesmen.
so the Irish met Murray in a far behind national champion Bob Reschan poled a 33o-foot
force out.
doubleheader of their own the next Detroit's 73. two-run home run to give the Irish day. ND led 7-o after one inning in Bob Roemer's sacrifice fly Sollitto narrowly missed All­a first inning lead in their first ND 5 -Delta State 1 the opener, but Murray's Jerry moved ND back out in front, and American status in sabre, gaining game against Christian Brothers Weaver hung on, went the then Schuster's blast put the game an impressive 16-7 slate. His College, but ND couldn't hold the 
ND finished its road trip on a .... 
distance, and allowed the Irish away. record was good enough to tie for spread for long. CBC exploded for winning note by downing Delta 5-1. 
only two more hits. sixth which is the cutoff for the seven in their half of the second, The Irish banged out nine hits ­
ND 5-Memphis State 0 All-A~erican team, but he had one and ND spent the rest of the game
Weaver's teammates, mean­including another Reschan HR ­
more touch scored against him in a futile catch-up effort. 
and never trailed in the game.
while, took advantage of ND's Mike Riddell, in his first start of than the other fencer, and he had to Tom Hansen's RBI triple to The Irish scored twice in thepitching generosity and staged a 
comeback which eventually the year, ignored the soggy con­settle for seventh. center field pulled the Irish to second and once in the third, and it
ditions at Memphis State's Mike Cornwall fenced well within one in the eighth, and the stooq that way until Reschan -withproduced an 8-7 Murray triumph. 
diamond layout and hurled the enough in foil to earn a ninth place ND team staged a would-be rally in 
Rich Eich, who walked nine, lasted Schmidt aboard -sent a shot far
Irish to their shutout win of the berth, finishing the championship the ninth. With one out, Schmidt over the left field fence. Eduntil the third, and the score was 7­season. Riddell, who walked none round with an 11-12 record. Chuck doubled to center and Reschan Hrabscak started for the Irish, but 5 when Mark Schmitz (who and fanned eight during the game, Harkness finished a disappointing walked. Joe LaRocca then pulled a 
received the loss) replaced him. reliever Rick Eich picked up the 
was backed by a 15-hit attack 19th, with a 7-16 mark in epee. hard line shot down the third base victory.
The frosh reliever forced in which included Ken Shuster'sMurray's sixth run with a walk, second homer of the season.
and an error by second baseman The Irish who had men on baseTony Iarocca pulled the home in every i;.rung but one, tal~ied team even. 
single runs in the second, thtrd, Weaver won his own game in the and eighth innings, and scored sixth, when his single to center twice in the ninth. 
Crew team splits in DC 
by "Lefty" Ruschmann On Saturday, March 25, the Irish 
Notre Dame's young crew club, lightweights opened by splitting which relied heavily on sophomore two races, defeating East Carolina rowers in the varsity boats, opened by one length but bowing to George 
· · · washington D Washington University by a two-
Its sprmg season 10 ' · 1 th · in the other en
c.. over the break, participating in eng margm ­two meets on the Potomac. counter. . 
• Following four days of practice,
Semerad wtns the Irish entered its ~ull squad
against George Washmgton on
• I I March 30. 



OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Pagt's 14 and 15 

ND will open its home season Tuesday at Cartier Field against the Nortl:western Wildcats. 
Soccer opens practice 
The Irish soccer team will begin spring practice this afternoon at 
4: 30 behind Stepan Center. All interested candidates are invited to attend. 
Ruggers first in Gator Tourney 
half, was injured early in the
The Notre Dame rugby team how the heat would affect Notre 
After the lightweights spent the spring break in Florida Dame's play. but as it turned out, it second half, forcing the Irish to 
play short-handed the rest of thebQXtng aure evened the score with the C~lonials and returned to campus with more was the Gators, the defending 
by posting a two-length trmmph, than suntans and oranges, tourney champs, that were burned way. but Vanderbilt was unable to Larry Semerad, Notre Dame's take advantage of the situation.
the heavyweight rowers opened bringing back the championship by the stellar performances of 125-pound Bengal Bout champion, their season with a second-placP­trophy from the U. of Florida's !\like Crotty. Ed O'Connell, Joe Notre Dame wrapped up the 
racked up his second boxing title of championship by belting Spring
finish. Inexperience weighed Gator Tournament. held March 24-Hafner. Rich Campagna, Jack 
the spring by capturing the 118-Hill College, 32-6, much to the
heavily in the Notre Dame loss to 25. Cloherty. Herb Giorgio and Tom 
pound crown in the Chicago Park I .oftus. dismay of most of the fans in at­
George Washington. although the 
The Irish were rated as un­
District Tourney during the East~r tendance. O'Connell tallied eight
Irish managed to defeat a third derdogs in the eight-team field The Irish took on Vanderbilt in
vacation. points to lead the Irish offense and 
entry in the race. Virginia Com­after dropping their first two the semi-finals and humiliated the
The Baltimore, Md., junior drew Cloherty, Giorgio, Campagna,
monwealth. The freshmen likewise matches this spring but the ND Commodores. 41-9. O'Connell
a bye in the opening round of the Hafner, and Dan Lee registered
dropped their first race of the ruggers proved to be the classiest kicked 17 points and Don Greiwe, trys.
tourney, posted a second round 
season. trailing the George team in the tourney and breezed Giorgio. Fred Manley, Hafner, .Jim 
knockout in his semi-final match Spring Hill almost made a game
Washington boat by 31 seconds. past three opponents to win the Carr and Crotty added scores in
and registered a victory by of it in the early going, coming
title. the romp. Other Notre Dame
unanimous decision over Rick After an open weekend, the Irish within one foot of scoring three
standouts were. Kevin O'Grady,
Dougan in the finals. will resume action April 15 in Notre Dame met the host U. of times, only to be turned back by
Pat Krueger, Lee Palardy, and
The match was aired on Detriot. where they hope to send Florida club in the first round and the stalwart Irish defense and television throughout the Chicago four boats against the Wayne State romped to a 28-13 victory. There Doug Smego. thereafter, Notre Dame dominated area. University oarsmen. had been some speculation about Eddie Fishburn. N.D.'s serum-the action. 


Friday, April 7, 1972
16 the Q_bserver --. -----· .. c---­
--, -:;= = 
Scholarship progra1ns threatened 
More than $1.8 million in Father Hesburgh cited a report State Scholarship Commission. scholarships and grants for In-by Butler University President Threatened are two separate diana students has been Alexander Jones, president of the programs-the scholarship fund threatened by state budget cut-Independent Colleges and and the grants fund. The latter, for backs, Rev. Theodore M. Universities of Indiana, which which $750,000 has been ap­Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the criticized tentative plans by the propriated for academic 1972-73, University of Notre Dame, said state's Budget Agency to freeze would be eliminated entirely if the today. funds appropriated to the Indiana cuts are made. The grants, 
IHUIII!!liiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiDllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltUIIIIIIUllllllllUIJIIIII IIIIIIJUlllllllllllllllllllllllll 111111n111111111UIll 
l * mock convention '72 
averaging about $800 each, go to students at the bottom end of the economic ladder. Aproximately 42 per cent of these grant recipients are black. The grants would, in many cases, constitute the dif­ference between college and no college to these low income students. 
The scholarship program would be cut by approximately $1,100,000 estimates. 
The Scholarship Commission was appropriated $8,080,000 for the next academic year, of which $3,650,000 has already been obligated to freshman scholarship applicants and hence will not be affected by any proposed cuts. 
Cavanaugh elects 

Candidates may visit campus 
by Anthony Abowd 
Ten states have picked per­manent chairman and committee representatives for the Mock Democratic Convention, April 24­27. 
"The rest of the states will have meetings this coming week and the Platform Committee will meet shortly afterward," according to Eric Andrus, Mock Convention organizer. 
The convention is still one hundred delegates short of its 1,000 member goal but this is not critical according to Andrus. Andrus said 
Delegation Meetings -Sunday 
6: 30 -Florida, Badin Vinta~e Cinema 
7:00 
-Ohio. LaFortune Fiesta Lounge 7:00-Pennsylvania, Delaware, 265 Nieuwland 

7:00 
-Maryland, Student Union Academic Committee Office 


7:30 -Virginia, Farley First Floor Lounge 
Delegation Meetings -Monday 
7:00 -New York, 127 Nieuwland. 
there is a chance Presidential Lawrence O'Brien, chairman of candidates Hubert Humphrey, the National Democratic Com-Edmund Muskie or George mittee will address the convention Wallace, who will be in Indiana at Tuesday night April 25. Andrus the time, may address the said he expects some national delegates. press coverage for the event. 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 II 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Red Cross to recruit blood donors 
by Patty Abell Blood donations will be accepted by the American National Red Cross on April 17 and 18 in Stepan Center, announced Pete Mead, head of the Red Cross on campus. A meeting will also be held at 7 Rm.on Sunday, April 9, in Room 123 of Nieuwland Science Hall to organize the donating procedures and to recruit donors. Mead, a transfer student, 
Security report: 
Locking doors biggest problem 
Security's biggest problem during the break, according to Director Arthur Pears, was locking hall doors which were left open by some of the nearly 100 students who stayed on campus. 
However security patrols 
discovered  two  breaking  and  
enterings  Monday  evening.  Ex­ 
tensive  damage  was  done  to  a  

large door connecting the Hayes­Healy Center with the old business building. Also, $13 in cash and a small radio were removed from the building. 
The other B&E was against the Student Union and Dome offices on the fourth floor of LaFortune. According to Pears, nothing was taken although several lockers were forced. 
Pears said the culprit or culprits musthave been locked inside the two buildings, becausd all outside doors were locked. 

VOLUNTEERS 
(FRONTIER APOSTULATEI needs leachers. lradesmen, office ~nd kitchen help. nurses. One thousand have shared since 1956. Lonq hours. hard work, no pay. (Room ilnd board plus S25 month.I Accepl challenge of missionary diocese: Bring faith and love; find hope. fulfillment Write today Bishop Fergus O'Grady, 
O.M I 778 College Road, Prince Gf'orqe. B.C., Canada 
commenting on the project said, "I was surprised to find that Notre Dame did not have a blood donating program." He contacted the Mid-American Chapter of the Red Cross, who after listening to his plans, agreed to come. 
"This I hope to be a semester occurance," Mead expressed his ambition, and added, "It was successful at my last school and at other schools and I hope it will be here also." 
He explained the purpose of the Sunday's meeting as being "for basic organization, to fill out time sheets and to get people for recruiting donors." The donating itself will be done from 12:00 to 
5:00 pm on Monday, April 17, and from 10:00 am to 3:00 pm on tuesday, April 18. 
Any questions should be directed 

to Pete Mead at 8006 or Ann Smith 
at 5482. 
Chase Manhattan 
banks on Hesburgh 
Rev. Th~odore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of the University of Notre Dame, has been elected a director of the Chase Manhattan Bank. 
T~e 54 year old prit!st is also chairman of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights, and the vacancy he fills on the board of the country's third la~gest bank was created by the retirement of Frederick R. Kappel at the mandatory age of 70. 
Now ROMA presenting the incredible "FIFTH AMENDMENT" Weds., Fri., Sat., for your dancing pleasure don't miss them ! 
Large T-Bone only $2.95 
deliveries phone 234-3258 
ay hours from 4-7 daily-all drinks40c 
Dornts are dull! 
The Notre Dame Avenue Apts Present Great Change We are 65% filled for next fall '!2 of these apartments are rented to girls!! 
We also offer

* 
Close to campus

* 
2 large bedrooms-Room for four students

* 
Large kitchen, dining room and plenty of storage space

* 
Fully carpeted Iiving rooms 


with a private patio and balcony* 9 & 1 2 month leases 
These apartments are completely furnished (special package price for summer school) 
Renting now for this summer and next fall 
Call 234-6647 Office 919 South Bend Ave. South Bend, Ind. 
------. ·--------­
from the amount originally ap­
officers in run -off
propriated to the Scholarship 
Paul Tobin was elected president
Commission. The full weight of 
of Cavanaugh Hall by a 81 to 59
these cuts would fall on renewal 
margin over Denny Deehan in run­
applications, that is, students who 
off elections held March 18.
will be sophomores, juniors, or 
Mike Cavanaugh won the vice­
seniors next September. These 
presidential post by a 78 to 59 vote
renewal scholarships, which also 
over --:Frank Guerrieri.
average approximately $800 each, 
Tobin is a junior English major 
would be cut to something like $640 
according to preliminary from Iron Mountain, Michigan. 
~ 
HOUISr 
MON • TUES • THUR -PIJ 
9 AM 5r30 PM W'fD • SAT 9 AN. 12 NOON COMPLETE $PIICI'ACLI SERVICE All f'\ E 01."S P'IIESCRIPTIONS HONOIEt 
RoGERS 


Optical 
IOGEI ATWflL • OWNI!I 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Law student· to sublet home this 
summer  ·  3 beedroom, garage  - 
furnished.  $140 per month.  233­ 
1612.  

Anyone interested in playing violin, viola, or cello in orchestra for Show Boat, please contact Dr. Roger Kenvin at 284-4935 or in office at 109 Moreau Hall, SMC. 
Performance dates are April 28, 29, May 4, 5, 6, 19 and 20. 
WSND-FM needs girls to help in the planning and production of next year's children's program. 
Interested? Call Mike 3702. 
Need to rent economy car 4 times month. Eric 287-8688. 
Recycle your books with Pandora SB at ND Aves. 233-2342. 
Typing Wanted: Experie.nced, Accurate. Themes, manuscripts. Call: Jane Smith 233 6909. 
FOR SALE 

STEREO SPEAKERS--Exciting New Sound--Unbeatable Buys. ­Call 283-8462. 
Stereo Amp . FM Tuner Automatic Turntable. Perfect Condition. $75. 283-7634-288-4160 
For Sale-Bancroft's Best Wooden Tennis Racquet. Used regularly for only one summer. Excellent bargain. Call 1675 for details. 
For Sale: KLH Model 24 stereo system', with AM-FM stereo-one year old. Call-3272. 
1966 MGB, Blue, wired wheels, AM FM radio. Superb condition, must see to believe. New BFG oversized radials all around. $1200 or best offer. Call Jack at 2324135. 
Words 1rla 2da Jda .tda 5da 
1-10  .65  .951.151.351.55  
11-15  l.O'J  1.501.85 2.10 2.40  
16-20 1.30  1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95  

21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26 30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2A5 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.?0 6.50 7.80 8.95 
NOTICES 
JOBS ON SHIPS! MEN. WOMEN. Perfect summer job or career. No experience required. 
Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Send $2.00 for information. Seafax, Box 1239-IG, Seattle, Washington 98111. 
STUDY AND TRAVEL IN EUROPE. 6 week summer session at University of Vienna earns6NDcredits. Actnow! 234­6519. 
Parts and Accessories for lm­porled cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North 
Roseland) 272-7187. 
Nominations open at SMC tor Exec. Cabinet: NSA Coordinator Student union Asst. Director Off Campus Commissioner Public Relations Commissioner Human Affairs Commissioner Hall Life Commissioner Submit name to Susan Welte box 436 or call 5375-4679 by midnight, Wed., April 12. 
Nominations being accepted for SMC: Judicial Board Chairman, Members, and Alternates Community Relations Board Appellate Board. Submit name to Susan Welte . box 436 or call 5375-4679 by midnight, Wed., April 12. 
50 gallons free gas with 4 tire purchase; 25 free gallons gas with 2 tire purchase. Ask about our ruslproofing and shock absorber specials. Rons Standard 1409 Portage Ave. 255·0520. 
FOR RENT 
Kitchen & Rooms . $45 mo. girls only. Also free rent for summer for painting !he house. 233-1329. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Silver medallion. Engraved· Bradley A. Chill. Senlimental Value. Call 232-9816. 
Found: Glasses in front of South Dining Hall. Identify. 3201. 
PERSONAL 
Geez. you know • 
S months . WOW 
Baby, you're amazing. 
Queen's Court: 
BLINK, BLINK, BLINK, BLINK, 
BLINK, BLINK, BLINK, 
BLINK ... 
Michael 
J 







