
Warmer! (in the 40's) Make snowballs while 
you can ... 


Vol. VI, No. 77 spreading love around the notre dame -st.mary's community Monday, February 14, 1972 
Pot legalization sought by agency 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Washington, Feb. 13--An end criminal penalties for possession of marijuana, to be recommended by the National Com­mission on Marijuana and "Drug Abuse, could reduce heroin addiction, a report to the connommion has concluded. 
The report by Dr. Erich Goode, associate professor of Sociology at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, found that cutting the link of illegality between the two durgs would take "the young marijuana user out of a criminal drug-using subculture." 
That finding was supported by research in other reports used by the 13-member commission as a basis for its unanimous recommendation. The commission's recommendations to Congress and President Nixon are due March 22, but were disclosed by the New York Times today. 
Among the conlcusions of about 50 reports by commission staff members and outside consultants were that marijuana use does not eventually lead to heroin, cause crime or create physical or psychological addiction. 
The reports use the findings of new research surveys, as well as almost every major study conducted on use of the drug in the last few years, to cover virtually all aspects of use and effects of marijuana. Ampng the findings and conclusions of the most extensive reports are the following: 
--Five million Americans smoke marijuana at least once a week and 500,000 use it at least every day and those num­bers may double by 1976. 
-Marijuana use is based on social peer groups. Social behavior patterns, not rebellion or alienation, primarily lead to marijuana use and these patterns cannot be easily altered by laws. 
--There is an extremely high correlation between marijuana use and cigarette 
smoking, political liberalism, weak 
religious affiliation, and male gender. 
--Nearly 200,000 persons may be involved 
in selling and distributing marijuana, with 
an annual profit of more than $500 million. 
--About $1 billion is spend annually on 
marijuana, enough to provide one 
marijuana cigarette a month for every 
American 18 or older. 
In the areas where the reports, all conducted in the last year, overlap, the researchers' conclusions were usually in agreement. 
The popular conception that marijuana use leads to that of more dangerous drugs, especially heroin, is "totally invalid," Goode found in his study. 
Marijuana users come from certain social groups, Goode found. "Many relationships between marijuana use and almost anything else can be accounted for in part by the fact that marijuana users are simply socially different," he wrote. 
He found that marijuana's illegal status gave it a stronger statistical link to more dangerous and also illegal drugs. "Were marijuana to become another legal drug ... the co-relation with illegal drugs would drop to the level of alcohol and prescription drugs," he wrote. 
All the studies reportedly agreed there was no physical tolerance to the drug it­self. While there have been reports of cases of "psychological dependency" to the drug caused by regular use of marijuana, none of the studies obtained by the Times found this to be a prevalent effect of continued use. 
Persons close to the Commission have reported that other studies done for the 13­m ember commission, including a review of a group of marijuana users over a five­year period and a recent experiment in which users smoked marijuana every day for a month, have also found no psychological addition created by use of the drug. 

"Does she or doesn't she ...?" The eternal question in the minds of men on Valen­tine's Day. Some of them vocalize their feelings, others put them in print. For the latter, see pages 8 and 9. As for the for­mer, well, you'll have to make like him. 

Can the plan backfire? 
Nixon's anti-inflation policy reviewed 

(c( 1!172 New York Times News in place and is now in operation optmon polls, including the last week that the fight against Administration's plan of trying to s.-rvice throughout most of the nation's Gallup Poll, indicate continued inflation is not yet won. But the ease inflation and reduce trillion dollar economy. confusion about the methods used Prresident and the officials who unemployment with the Washington, Feb. 13--After six The inflationary spiral, to control wages and prices and run his stabilization program say traditional tools of increasing months, President Nixon's stubbornly resistant to growing misgivings about their they are confident that the goals­government spending and economic stablilization program traditional remedies, has fairness and firmness. including reducing the annual loosening the supply of money 
is a ship plowing through rough measurably begun to slow down. Rising food prices and publicity rate of inflation to 2 to 3 percent proved slow and seas: it seems to be heading in The inflationary psychology given to larger wage increases by the end of 1972--are now within inadequate. the right general direction but it that had gripped Americans and granted to a few powerful unions reach. 
On Aug. 15 he announced a 90

could still be blown off course and their institutions in a python-like seem to be causing consumers to There have been many com­
day freeze on all wages prices,

meanwhile, many of the embrace has apparently been believe that the controls ap­ments suggesting thut the 
and rents, along with other 

passengers are complaining loosened. paratus is not helping them very President stands to reap 
measures that included putting

about the ride. And, despite the massive and much--at least, not directly. significant political rewards in 
the dollar loose from gold and

On Aug 15, 1971, Nixon, a unexpected thrust of the Federal The bewildering complexity of his bid for re-election this year if 
imposing a 10 percent import

Hepublican long considered a Government into the Free the wage, price, and rent his stabilization program is on 
restraints on the freemarket the President's basic economic whole system among those political valuse of phase two. 
designed to keep wages and 

economy in the history of the decisions. Even the voice of Americans who feel shut out of Arthur Okun, a noted 
prices in check but to allow for

United States. organized labor has become the system. economist and a Democrat, 
equity and fairness. To run the

Six months later, the Ad­relatively muted in recent weeks. There are probably many commented last week 
controls the President

ministration can point to a But after half a year, there ar£ Americans who would agree with that"before this, whenever rents 
established a pay board to review

number of achievements for its still doubts about the ultimate the sentiment expressed by Mrs. went up the tenant blamed his new economic policy. success of the Administration's Frank Santiago, a low-wage landlord. Now rents are still 
From the time the controls

program was announced in

August through December, the

l<'ollowing the freeze a com­reduce the high rate of unem­do," she said,"they haven't done direct controls on wages and 

Page 2 THE OBSERVER. 

1000 people needed for Mock Convention 



On April 24-27 the Mock Con­vention will be held at Stepan Center. Lawrence O'Brien, the Democratic National Chairman, will be the keynote speaker and will deliver a speech to the· convention on the 25th. 
Eric Andrus, the person who is in charge or organizing the mock convention, stated, "On February loth a meeting was held for people who wanted to work for candidates at the con­vention. Twenty-three people showed up. They were working for the election of Senators Muskie,. McGovern, Kennedy, Mayor Lindsay, and Eugene McCarthy. 
Andrus commented, "We would like to see more people involved. We would like to see someone come forward to work for the candidacies of Senators Humphrey, Jackson, Hartke, Mayor Yorty, Governor Wallace, and Representative Chisolm. This would give the delegates a wider range of candidates to choose from. If anyone is in­terested in working for these candidates, the candidates who already have organizations, or any other people who you think 
::===========================================on campus today====================================================================================== 
. 

Great Moments in Mafia History 
Feb. 14, 1929 
St. Valentine's Day, a day commemorated in mob circles as a marvel of efficiency with the massacre by the Capone organization of 8 members of Bugs Moran's gang in a Chicago garage. The always sentimental Mr. Capone sent flowers. 
Feb. 14, 1936 
Machine Gun Jack McGurn, who reputedly helped plan and took part in the St. Valentine's Day Massacre, was himself 
All  in  the  family: Uncle machine-gunned  in  a  Chicago  
Stephana 's pri de 'n joy  bowling alley seven  years later,  
to the day.  

,.IIAAAAilAAAA*****M•****************** 



lMPORTANT!! 

OBSERVER STAFF 
General Meeting 
News staff Advertising Night staff Business Production 


OBSERVER OFFICE 

4:30 Monday 


ATTENTION PRE-LAW STUDENTS 
LSAT REVIEW COURSE NOW ACCEPTING STUDENTS FOR APRIL {_AND OTHER) LSAT TESTS 
FOR INFORMATION: EDUCATIONAL IDEAS BOX 337 BLOOMINGTON IND 47401 CAMPUS'REP KELLYFLYNN-232-8236 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

should be president contact me at 283-6244." 
He added, "From February 21­25th there will be sign~ups for delegates at the Notre Dame and St. Mary's dining halls. There will also be sign-ups for delegates in the Huddle from 10:30-2:30. The fee for being in is only $1. This will entitle the student to attending the four days of the convention. We need 1,000 delegates to represent the 50 states, District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands. Students can sign up for the states of their choice on 
4: 30---meeting, general staff, the observer, observer office 
7: 00---meeting, red cross water safety instruction course, rockne pool. 
8:00---lecture, prof. william brownlee, the people of god, qumran lecture series, library auditorium 
8: 15---recital, arthur lawrence, compositions by bach, pachelbel, franck, distier, sacred heart church. 

a first come-first serve basis.  
Bob Ohlemiller said, "This is  
the  only  chance  an  un­ 
dergraduate  will  have  to  par­ 
ticipate in something of this sort.  
It will help whatever candidate is  
nominated. The Indiana primary  
is  on  May 2 so  the Convention  
here will have an impact.  
"One of the problems we face is  
·the lack of  a  Chairman of the  
Convention who is familiar with  
Roberts  Rules  of  Order.  The  
position is open not only to  un­ 
dergraduates  but  to  faculty  Eric Andrus,  
members and grad students  as  
w II "  
OFF CAMPUS  SENIORS  

Approximately 200 nominating· forms for the Senior Fellow Prognm will not be delivered in your mail because the University cannot give us the zip codes for all of the off-campus seniors. If you have not yet received your form, you may nominate someone by calling the Student Union Academic Commission at 283-3788 on Monday or Tuesday afternoon, between the hours of 1 & 5 
pm. 

What is life without love? 


From one beer lover to another. 
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MlyHIGAN 48ZZ6 

Monday, February 14, 1972 
Page 3




E OBSERVER 
Serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Community 
walsh -badin 

Badin's bad: 

Wreath mourns loss of Badin 
by Marlene Zloza 
(Editor's note: Writer Marlene Zloza, a 
freshman at St. Mary's, took a tour of both 
Badin and Walsh Halls. These are her 
impressions of both halls when considered 
as women's dormitories.) 
Ask any St.Mary's woman what she 
thinks of Badin Hall. Her immediate 
response, "It's great. I love it." Ask the 
same St. Mary's woman what she thinks of 
Badin as a women's residence hall. Her 
immediate response, "Ugh! I'd never 
want to live there. It's a pit." 
After listening to practically everyone's 
opinion and comment on the topic, "Can 
ND women find contentment and hap­
piness living in Walsh and Badin?"a first 
hand woman's view of the facilities each 
has to offer was quite illuminating. 
Although the recent linkage of the two 
names leads one to think of them as twin 
halls, each is very unique in physical 
structure and life-styles. As a matter of 
fact, it's hard to imagine anything that 
could remotely resemble Badin. 
On my tour through the hall, I kept looking for lounges, study, and recreational areas. I am still waiting. What passes for a T.V. lounge could more aptly be described as a T.V. closet. The two study lounges are adequate, if you like four walls, carpeting and a lot of empty space. 
The Badin Vintage Cinema, another singular. feature of the hall, presents another problem. What will become of it? Will the new residents have control; if so, will they keep it as is, tear it down or convert it into a meeting room? It's one place that has definite possibilities. 
Room might also be set aside for a kitchen and laundry room. About all that's left for that is the second floor porch. 
Security in Badin is one area the University can handle. One trusts that they will work out an adequate system of locks and protection. The hall's location in the center of campus should be ad­vantageous in this respect. 
Ventilation in the hall seemed adequate, but I was told that during the fall and &pring, ventialtion on the fourth floor is non-existent. Of course, air conditioning could easily solve the problem. Nothing's too good for ND co-eds. 
Closet space in Badin is excellent because the hall space is excellent. In other words, the closets are in the hall. This situation seems irreversible, since those metal lockers couldn't fit into the rooms without moving all the other fur­niture out. 
Across the Parking Lot 

Shifting the scene across the parking lot to Walsh, the setting brightens con­siderably. 
My first stop, the basement, can easily be a dandy place for studying, watching T.V., cooking or partying. The sad thing though, is that the Walsh basement i~ 
already a dandy place for all those things and the guys who made it that way won't be able to enjoyit much longer. They have put a lot of hard work and money into these facilities and next year's Walsh residents owe them more than a hearty thank you. 
There are three quiet study rooms with good lighting, plenty of desks, and black­boards. The T.V. lounge is newly decorated and pleasant. Two large recreation rooms have been renovated and need only a little added work to be ex­cellent facilities. The food sales room can easily be convedrted into a kitchen, though a heating problem must be overcome. 
The first floor has one major problem, however, privacy. Something will have to be done to cover the glass doors and provide more security. Again, good locks will remedy this. The chapel can be turned into a sitting room for visitor's with no major hassle. 
Hate to knock the elevator in Walsh, because at least they have one. but getting into it is like entering the Pentagon. First a big door, then a big gate. Then a littl~ key. As for size, as the saying goes, two's company, three's a crowd. 
Animal Lover's Haven 

Animal lovers will find a paradise in Walsh. The fourth floor offers a bat nest, and cockroaches can be found throughout 
one op1n1on 

A girl's room next year? 
the dorm. All Badin could offer was a few mice. 
The closet space in Walsh seems fairly sufficient, but then a Regina resident would find any closet space a blessing. 
For sports fans in both Walsh and Badin, a great view of the basketball court is an added attraction. But just remember, if you can see them, they can see you. 
Some aspects of the halls can be con­sidered together. (And what's the point, if it's not togetherness.) 
Don't think I'll ever forget standing on the fourth floor Walsh fire escape. It's 
(continued on page 12) 

Ho'Ward 'Welcomes transfers 

Ryan: sacrifice on all sides 
by Edward Rahill 

The residents of Howard Hall, in an attempt to relocate students of Badin and Walsh halls with as little inconvenience as possible, have offered to incorporate "groups" of students from Badin and Walsh in Howard. 
Howard Hall's intentions were revealed in a statement released to the public by the Howard Hall Council February 10: 
According to Howard Hall President Robert Ryan the admittance of women to Notre Dame involves a sacrifice of the entire student body not just those evicted from their halls. Therefore by allowing student groups in which relationships have already developed to transfer to other halls as "groups," the residents of Walsh and Badin can relocate with as little readjustment as possible. Ryan went on to state that due to the lack of information as to the number of vacancies next year it is impossible to state how many students and student groups could be allowed into Howard under the hall's proposed group plan. 
Be It Resolved: 
We, the men of Howard Hall, recognizing the value we place on our community spirit, and therefore the loss of that spirit by our neighbors in Badin and Walsh halls, would like to invite a number of residents of those halls to join our community. We extend to them the op. portunlty to relocate themselves in our hall, where they would be able to remain together and maintain some of the close ties which inevitably grow out of living in this type of community. We understand and appreciate the sacrifice they are making and wish to offer a more ac. ceptable alternative than would otherwise be possible.We commend their loyalty to a higher concept of the University of Notre Dame as a realistic co-educational community and would like by this small sacrifice on our parts to help make this concept a reality. 
The hall president expressed the hope 
that other halls would adopt similar plans 
in accepting Badin and Walsh residents. 
' I I 

Page 4 THE OBSERVER Monday, February 14, 1972 
West Coast Broadway strips to the skin 

<c> 1972 New York Times News Service 
San Francisco -It's the same now at the clubs all along Broadway. The roaring twenties, El Cid, the Hungry I, and~ On Down the Line. Business is booming. 
These are the clubs that in­troduced topless entertainment in the mid-1966's and, when that wore thin, switched to bot­tomless. 
They have changed again. They still use women; that has not changed. But now their huge neon signs advertise total nudity. 
"He and she nude love-in," says one sign. "Total Erotic Seductive Sex Show," says another. There are many others : "Totally Nude College Coeds." "Naked Dance of Love." "Sex Business." "Stark Naked Show." 
In Hollywood, the industry is only a shell of what it once was. But here on Broadway, it is another story. "We're flourishing," .said Donald Levine, who operates The Condor. 
"We've never made more money in my life." 
Levine makes it clear that it is no accident that the clubs on Broadway are not hurting. "We have something to offer," he explained. "This is the only thing that you can't see on television. We have the only game in town." 
Broadway is the main street in San Francisco's North Beach nightclub district. At least through the three blocks in which the clubs are situated, it is probably a street that is un­matched in America. 
"You can go to New York, Chicago, or any other major city and you won't find a street like this," said David Rosenberg, the publicist for the clubs. 
"It's not just the clubs," he said. "It's the total package. You've got some of the best restaurants in the city here, you've got theater and all types of entertainment and it's cen­tralized here in a three-block area. 
Rosenberg makes .another point. It is not just that the clubs flourish, he says. It is also the atmosphere. 
"Up here," he says, "You don't have to worry about getting mugged or your purse being snatched or something like that. The street is well policed. We never have any problems like that. 
When the local owners mention that business is good on Broad­way, they point to the new signs going up or to the fact that there are no empty clubs. Before they finish, Carol Doda's name always comes up. 
She is back on Broadway, the star attraction at the Condor, and they say that she is the highest paid performer on the street. It was Miss Doda who started the topless rage in 1964 when she went on stage with only the bottom half of a bikini. 
She is best known for a silicone injection she had in 1965. It enlarged her bosom from a 34-B to a 44-D. To promote her return to Broadway, the club insured her with Lloyds of London for $1 million. 
In conversations with visitors, the club owners along Broadway are asked how they can get away with the shows that feature complete nudity. 
"What can they do about it?" one club owner asked. "It's legal. We just did it and they don't bother us and we don't bother them," referring to the city l?fficials. 
The city did attempt to force the clubs to drop the words "naked" and "nude" from their stands. But the clubs refused and went to court. The city has since dropped the demand. 
In the doorways of each club, one and sometimes two men lure customers off the streets. They shout and yell like carnival barkers: "Right here, the biggest show on Broadway. Real live college coeds, completely nude." 
The city said that the barkers had to go. They did--for a while. 

ND seniors harrassed by Insurance cos. 
by Bili_McGinn 

Being a practical individual, the confident N.D. Senior naturally checked the box in­dicating that he would willingly accept a free leather wallet. But by mailing that one postage-paid post card he started an avalanche of phone calls, letters and visits from Insurance salesmen that he would never forget. Yes, it was pany. "Well," thought Joe Senior after the third phone call, "I suppose I ought to simply listen to him. Mter all, he did give me a free wallet." Relenting to the pressures of the phone calls and a team here at N.D." Mter an hour and a half of introductions the alumni representative finally opened his attache case-despite Joe's pleas that he didn't need insurance. "Within five years you'll be earning .big money, so you should start to protect yourself now," advised the agent. 
once  again  the  season  for  in­ 
surance  companies  to  plague  
N.D. Seniors.  

slightly guilty  conscience,  Joe_  
Senior  agreed  to  see  the  
representative.  

OBSERVER INSIGHT 
afford the payments so I'll have The salesman, attired in a blue The advantages of buying· to cancel the policy," declared 
pin-striped business suit and College Master's Insurance were 
(Continued on page 12)
grasping a black leather attache clearly demonstrated by the case, arrived promptly at the representative. Newspaper The are back now and their voices in he night keep the street alive. With business booming the way it has been, nothing on Broadway is likely to change. 

CHICAGO 
715 NORTH MICHIGAN AVENUE TEL: (312) 944-7500 ·ZIP: 60611, 
Please add sales lax where applicable 

Master's Insurance. This for­tunate gesture left his family with the legacy of 15,000 dollars. 
Statistics and prices were quoted for another hour.~ Finally out of sheer desperation to rid himself of the agent, Joe signed on the dotted line. 
Two days later Joe phoned the campus representative. "I can't 
Before the wallet arrived there were more letters and unceasing phone calls urging our friendly senior to make an appointment for a meeting with the local representative of the College Master's E.Z. Insurance Com-decided hour. "Hello, Joe, I'm-
from the College Master's Insurance Company. I can well understand ­your present position. Why I was in your position back in '67 when I was a Senior on the basketball photos illustrated the news ar­ticle describing the fatal auto collision which claimed the life of a newly graduated senior. But all was not lost! Just one week before the accident this graduate had purchased College 
WANT A JOB? 

For seniors and grad students 
HUD announces 100 urban scholarships 
by Dan Barrett 

The Notre Dame Institute for Urban Studies has announced that graduate students or seniors accepted for graduate work in urban related fields are eligible for one of 100 fellowships offered nationally for the 72-73 academic 
year  by  the  Department  of  
Housing  and  Urban  Develop­ 
ment.  

The fellowship includes the payment of tuition, $500 for each dependent (maximum of two), and a grant of up to $3000. The awards are made only for one year, but a student may apply for renewal at the end of a year. 
The only commitment the student must make is to affirm his intentions of going on into a career in an urban related field at the state or local level. According to the Institute for Urban Studies, acceptable areas unclude urban and regional planning, urban affairs, urban public ad­ministration, and urban sociology and economics. 
The Fellowship Program, which is entering into its sixth year, is designed to bring a talented reservoir of young, trained specialists into Ute field of urban development. !(further hopes to encourage the schools which these students attend to attack the problems of urban development with innovative programs that are capable of meeting the challenges posed by urban problems. 
HUD considers one of the bright sidelights of the program to be its ability to increase the contributions of talented minority students who otherwise might not have the opportunity to contribute. 


MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15p.m. Sat. Fr. Bob Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. Bernard Clark, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Aidan Kavanaugh, O.S.B. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 
Eligible students interested in the program can pick up their applications before March 1, 1972, from the Urban Studies Institute, Room 214, Rockne Building. Dr. Thomas Broden the Director of the Institute, say~ he can't recall any Notre Dame student ever being awarded one of the fellowships. 
Need girl to work in Campus Press -as a receptionist on Mon. Wed, Fri. 1 to 5 beginning March8. Job continues next yr.-5 days Mon-Fri if possible. (could work out alternative) Fresh. or Soph preferred Good pay -great fringe benefits. Call Kathy-283-7047 Mon. Wed. Fri 1-5 or come in-
Campus Press Bsm t. LaFortune Student Center 
Student Union Academic Commission presents 


Ralph Nader 
Thursday -February 17 
9:00 pm -Stepan Center 
Ticket sales in dining halls and ticket office Monday-Wednesday 

-Students 75¢ -non-students 




Monday, 14, 1972 THE· OBSERVER 



Muskie leads in New Hamshire 
<c> 1!172 New York Times Joseph Grandmaisno, Muskie. Nt>ws Service McGovern's manager, argues "You have to build in a surprise enough to exert much influence in that Muskie's campaign will be for your candidate," said one old the nominating process through 
Manehester. New Hampshire, "dead all over the country" if he practicioner of this kind of its delegates. This year, few February 13-With three weeks doesn't get at least 52 per cent of gameship."If you think you'll get people even talk about the remaining until election day, the the vote. 25 per cent, you claim 15, then delegate races, conceding them 
New Hampshire primary A Mills backer asserts that a 15 hope you'll be able to produce a to Muskie. The focus is upon the campaign looks more like a per cent showing by his man stunning surprise later." preferential percentages, and problem in arithmetic than a would constitute a "Great moral Robert E. Raiche, the minority what those could mean in other, 
omentus political struggle. victory for us." leader in the New Hampshire bigger states. 
Nearly all the Democratic Malcolm Kilduff, a Hartke House of Representatives, said But in 1972 Florida, Georgia, professionals (except Robert aide, predicts that Hartke will last night that "everyone worries and Illinois, all far bigger than Philbrick, campaign manager poll 20 per cent of the total about what the headlines will say New Hampshire, will choose for Mayor Sam Yorty of Los thereby holding Muskie under 50 March 8. their delegates within two weeks Angeles, who still says his man per cent, "Which would obviously Raiche, a Muskie supporter, of the primary here, and because may yet finish first) believe Sen. make Vance the winner." remarked that something was of the Democratic party reforms, EdmundMuskieof Maine will get Maria Carrier, Muskie's local patently wrong in a situation there are far fewer big un­the most votes in the March 7 coordinator, talks nervously where the Media could choose the committed blocs of delegates to balloting. about how hard it will be for the winner. be swayed. 
But, they ask, how many. With Maine senator to reach 50 peP For those who will vote in later Muskie, Yorty, Sen. George cent, and Muskie himself speaks Some of the national news primaries, there will be results McGovern of South Dakota and resentfully about "people who correspondents who have come to from far more typical states­Sen. Vance Hartke of Indiana all pull numbers from the air." New Hampshire this month are Illinois, Ohio, Pennsylvania-to on the ballot, and a sophisticated It is an old game, but it is being uneasy about the game. Yet a look at. New Hampshire will still write-in campaign for Rep. played here with unusual in­consensus seems to be emerging draw major media attention Wilbur D. Mills of Arkansas, tensity, and it puts the news around the magic 50 per cent; it is because it is first, but the won't Muskie's total be too media in the position of arbiters. cited in more and more stories public's attention is likely to be small? And what is too small? It is they who are asked to decide and broadcasts. distracted quickly unless 
There is no dearth of self­in advance what percentage "I can see it now," said something astonishing should 
serving calculations. would constitute a "real win" for Lawrence F. O'Brien, the happen here. Democratic National Chairman, This year, New Hampshire's who was here for a speech. primary is further flawed by the "There will be a lot of moral absence of several major
Nixon plan analyzed 
victory stories out of here." democratic candidates--Sen. 
It is argued by some experts Hubert H..Humphrey of Min­
here and elsewhere that the New nesota, Mayor John V. Lindsay of 
(continued from page 1) Hampshire primary has become New York, Sen. Henry M. 
an anachronism, that 1968 was its Jackson of Washington, and are available, the Consumer entire program. The Internal last hour in the national sun. Governor George C. Wallace of Price Indes, the "Market Revenue Service, a bureaucracy Until this year, there was at least Alabama. BBasket" that describes the cost that has long established its a month after the New Hamp­Yet the numbers game goes on, of living, rose by an annual rate credibility throughout the shire primary before there was at least partly becausethereis so of .2.4 percent, according tm the country, was picked to monitor voting anywhere else. little else to talk or speculate Department of Labor. and enforce the program in the The state, which ranks 43rd in about. 
By contrast, the annual rate of field. size among 50, has never been big 
growth in the Consumer Index was 4.1 per cent in the six months between March and August 1971. The rise in living costs resumed in December after the freeze ended, but this "bulge" had been anticipated by the Ad­ministration and is expected to continue not more than anothe r couple of months. 
As Herbert Stein, Chairman of the Council of Economic Ad­visers, reiterated in a speech to the National Press Club last week, "The price wage control system is an effort to control inflation in a way that will reduce, not increase, unem­ployment." Stein asserted that the Administration had adopted a rigorous, effective policy to do just that. 
However, there has been virtually no change as yet in the high rate of unemployment. In January, there were 5.1 million Americans out of work, or 5.9 percent of the civilian labor force. In January 1971 the rate was 6.0 per cent. At the same time, the number of employed Americans has risen steadily and stood at 80.6 million last month. 
and designated the Cost of Living Council to supervise and establish the coverage of the 
Budweiser~ Proudly Presents 
Hit tunes, show tunes, new tunes, rock, pop, folk ... even some oldies but goodies!!! 


esday, Feb. 15 8:00pm Free Concert

ND Wife 

O'Laughlin Aud. 


of the Year 
THE OBSER Monday, Februa 14, 1972 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-Chief, Glen s~ Corso 



Assistant Editor 
All successful newspapers are
T.C. Treanor 
ceaselessly querulous and 

bellicose. They never defend Business Manager anyone or anything if they can help Jim· Jendryk it; if the iob is forced upon them, 
they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Business: 283-7471 
Assistant Editor John Abowd 

Advertising Manager Bill Bauerle 

News: 283-1715 

To catch a thief 
Shoplifting is a sordid crime. Much of it is done by people who don't really need the things they steal, and the rest by people who need the merchandise to support their drug habit. 
Most of the shoplifting done at the Notre Dame bookstore falls into the firstcategory.No one at this university needs to steal. And no one can justify the action. The prime causes of thievery range from stupidity to laziness, with a wide range of human vices thrown in between. 
Shoplifting is sordid, but it is also expensive. Every item that is stolen has to be made up by profits on other things sold. The more items stolen, the more the store has to raise its prices. The more items stolen, the more the store has to invest in expensive security measures. 
The Notre Dame bookstore has been plagued with a rash of thefts this past year. None of the students caught had anything resembling a rational reason for their abysmal action. Of the 70 who were nailed, one was suspended, while the others were placed on disciplinary probation. 
Dean of Students, Fr. James Riehle, says he's disgusted with the thefts and plans to suspend anyone convicted of stealing from the bookstore in the future. 
Riehle's policy is the best way to deal with the problem. A swift crackdown, with half a dozen or so miscreants tossed out on their ears should solve it quickly. Thievery of this sort is not a complex psychological problem. Itis a simple disregard for other people's rights. In this case the other people are students, who will have to make up for the loss caused by the thieves. 
Suspension of convicted thieves is the best solution. We applaud Fr. Riehle's vigorous efforts and trust that they will set any potential Fagins on guard. 
A place to live 
There's a lot of people who are going to be forced off-campus 
next year, with Notre Dame's co-eds taking over Badin and 
Walsh. Good off campus housing seems to be at a premium. Added 
to that is that unfortunate fact that the best of it has already been 
staked out by those who had been planning to move off campus for 
some time. 

For those who simply want a room but are hesitant to let the 
university place them in a dorm, there may be a solution. Moreau 
Seminary, which is owned by the order of Holy Cross, is about half 
empty. The rooms are singles. The environment is pleasant and it 
is fairly close to campus. 
The Holy Cross Order may not be too thrilled about renting out rooms to Notre Dame Students. But they are doing it in the case of St. Joseph's hall, which they also own. The Seminary, according to reports, is half empty. The Order could make itself a bit of money renting out those rooms, and, at the same time, give some Notre Dame students a place to live, a place fairly close to campus. 
Student Government's Off-Campus office is the logical place to 
initiate inquiries into the availability of Moreau. We suggest they 
do it, and do it before students find themselves forced to rent sub­
standard housing from South Bend shylocks. 
THE OBSERVER 

night editors: maria gallagher, jim roe layout:· carol weiss laying around: joe abell typists: ginna smith, joe wilkowski, mark niederkorn headliner: don biancamano serenader: greg potts night controller: john brady tourists: ann mccarry, peggy Iawior, lefty ruschmann, ed ellis, glen corso, john abowd, jim mcdoormat, steve fortunate, jack kelley, marlene zloza, roger burrell 
JFK 

..~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;: 
by Alden Whitman 
(c) 1972 New York Times New York, Feb. 12---The foreign policy of President John F. Kennedy, much praised in its time as liberal and idealistic, is vigorously attacked in two recent books as a reactionary and counterrevolutionary program that pushed the United States deeper into Vietnam and worsened tensions with the Soviet Union. The books are "Cold War and Counterrevolution: The Foreign Policy of John F. Kennedy," by Richard J. Walton, a former principal correspondent for the Voice of America at the United Nations; and "The Kennedy Doctrine," by Louise FitzSimons, a former foreign affairs consultant to the State and Defense Departments. The books are part of a recent trend among historians and scholars, often called revisionists, to reassess the cold war and to question the merits as well as the effectiveness of American foreign policy since 1945, the year of Harry S. Truman's ac­cession to the presidency. One such just-published reevaluation­·-"The Truman Doctrine and the Origins of McCarthyism," by Dr. Richard Freeland of the University of Massachusetts--­contends that Truman policymakers inflated the image of Soviet intransigence in order to extablish an American-dominated political and commercial system in Western Europe. Thecriticsof President Kennedy also insist that he magnified the Soviet danger and sought to operate on the assumption that "the enemy <of the United States) is the Communist system itself---implacable, insatiable, unceasing in its drive for world domination." Arguing that Kennedy was a hard-line anti-Communist and citing hsi campaign and presidential speeches as proof, Walton 
asserts that the President began his term in 1961 with "a swift and massive military buildup ... despite(Soviet Premier Nikita 
S. l Khruschev's gestures of goodwill, despite (Dwight D.) Eisenhower's warning and despite the administration's in­. creasing realization that the Soviet Union was much weaker than the United States." 
"It is to his lasting credit that he urged the American people to reexamine its attitudes toward the cold war," Walton says, "but he himself did not understand it and confused the entirely normal competition between the United States and the Soviet Union with the inevitable revolutionary struggle in Asia and Latin America. 
"Thus, perhaps unknowingly, John Kennedy, with his green berets and his counterinsurgency programs and his swift and massive buildup, became the great counterrevolutionary of the postwar world." 
A similar point is made by Miss FitzSimons, although her book concentrates on the military and arms aspects of Mr. Kennedy's policy. She asserts that the President, early in his tenure, accepted counterinsurgency as a strategy to balk national aspirations in Southeast Asia. She writes: 
"President Kennedy and others who supported the coun­terinsurgency policy naively believed that with enough good­will, with the right kind of assistance, with the right kind of training, we could c~;mvert the South Vietnamese government into a strong freedom-loving democracy that could prevail over its enemies. 
"Our policymakers apparently never considered what might be the limits of American power to affect the course of events in a society alien to our own, of vastly different values and traditions." 
"Throughout the history of the Kennedy administration's deepening involvement, there was a serious gap between what American policymakers thought was happening and what was really happening. 
"Thus, as the situation went from bad to worse, confusion and despair in Washington increased. Yet no one ever said---or if he did it is not recorded---'maybe it just won't work."' 

-------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Monday, February 14, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 7 


Walsh plight and Gay Lib again 
Letters to the editor IIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 

Editor: The following was sent to Fr. Thomas E. Hlantz. 
Dear I<,r. Blantz, 
We, the members of Walsh Hall, seriously question the appropriateness of the Ad­ministration's decision to make Walsh a women't residentce for next year. 
We would be most willing to sacrifice our hall for the good of co-education if we felt that our hall was the best hall to house women. But we do not feel this way. 
Walsh Hall's facilities do not begin to compare with the facilities of some of the other halls on campus (e.g. the high­rise towers) and cannot compare with them unless the University is willing to pour a lot of money into the renovation of Walsh Hall. 
To spend this large amount of money would seem a bit ridiculous when a deficit of $700,000 has already been reported for this year and when there are halls on campus which would require almost no monetary improvements. 
We, the members of Walsh Hall ask for a reconsideration of Walsh as a women's residence. 
We also question the Ad­ministration's failure to include students on the body which selected the halls to house women and the Administration's refusal to recognize the students request for a co-ed dorm. 
And finally, we urge the Ad­ministration to cooperate with the Hall Presidents who have agreed to admit displaced students on an equal basis with other students and to reserve sections or groups of rooms for displaced students who wish to move enmasse. 
Sincerely, 
WALSH HALL COUNCIL 
David Fromm 
President 
Editor: 
The cartoon of Our Lady of the Dome and the Sacred Heart in mid-campus was an insult to me as a Christian but more so as a Catholic. 
I'd be really sorry if this humor reflected the attitude of the majority of the student body. It is as out of place as the actions of those students who use Christ's statue as a target for snowballs. There is a point at which a foresaking of tradition becomes bad taste and a step too far over the line. 
I protest this sketch most 

sincerely. "Indepent Student 
Newspaper" is perhaps a little 
too independent at times. 
Yours in Notre Dame, 
Greg Hannigan '73 
223 Sorin 
Editor: 
Regarding Marie Christine 

Ostric's letter Wednsday; we,a 
panel of experts,propose the 
following thesis: 
Suspend abortions in the state of New York and massacre the population of South Bend, thereby allowing the innocent to live and raising the literacy rate of Indiana 28 percent. 
Yours Truly, 
Gerber Baby Foods Editor: 
This letter is pertaining to the recent series of letters you've printed concerning the plight of the homosexual on the Notre Dame campus. Although the facts are not clear, estimates a8 to the number of gays and bisexuals on campus have ranged from five hundred tQ a thousand-­-no small number by anyone's standards! 
This many people, banded together could do a great deal to change the complexion of this year's student government elections. I would suggest that all gays contact the South Bend Gay Alliance immediately, and band together in a campus political movement. It is my sincere opinion that no campus bureaucrat could say no to five hundred votes. Indeed, the possibility of a gay candidate should even be considered---in view of the current lack of in­terest in student government , a thousand votes could go a long way toward securing a place in a runoff. <Who knows, Notre Dame's multitude of pseudo­liberal hypocrites may even vote gay just so they can say they did!) 
Sincerely, 
James F. Bullock 
423 Cavanaugh Hall 
Editor: 
Two recent letters relative to the plight of the homosexual have helped to crystallize some of my thoughts as a homosexual who, although accepting the fact quite easily, finds it difficult to make himself visible to others. 
The letter from "One who Cares" touched me most deeply, for I agree that loving someone means caring more for him (or her l than you do for yourself. I've felt that type of love twice; yet, in both instances I have been unable to make my feelings completely visible even to the persons I love. I lost the first person after only a few weeks and was left com­pletely shattered. For several quite lonely years I brooded over that loss. However, last semester I once again learned to love someone---again another guy--­even more deeply than my first love. Again, my quandry. Loving him as deeply as I do, how can I reveal my feelings (any more than I already have) without risking either the loss even of his friendship (I fear that may already have happened), or, should he be willing to return my love, the creation for him of possible problems of self­acceptance? Might he at best be even less willing, for fear of obligating himself, to accept help from me when circumstances are such that I know he could use the help? The final complication arises from the fact that he has a girl and is thinking seriously of marriage. I can accept--­although it is with great pain-­
the thought of losing him in this 
manner because his happiness 
means more to me than my own. 
My only hope is that they love 
each other as much as I love him. 
But would he be able to un­
derstand or believe this, or would 
my open avowal only place him in 
a painful situation? 
The question that arises in all 
of this is where do I go from here. 
Open avowal by joining Gay Lib 
is one possibility, but, like the 
writer of the unsigned letter in Wednesday's Observer, I do not believe that that provides the answer, at least not for me. Given societal attitudes in regard to homosexuality, such action would, without any justification whatsoever, raise in the minds of others questions about the sexual inclinations of the person I presently love and other close friends. The best that I can come up with is to continue hoping, as I have for the past several years, that God will not require me to live too much loneliness. 
This is the state to which the prevailing attitude toward the homosexual has brought me. How many of you have con­tributed to that prevailing at­titude? 
One Who Also Cares 
Editor: 
I am amazed that you should have the chutzpa to defend your inexcusable, ranting editorial on Sister Alma. What conceivable purpose has been served, what possible service has been ren­dered to the Notre Dame-8aint Mary's Community, by your vindictive public commentary on an administrator who had resigned? Has it helped to clarify the issues surrounding the merger negotiations? Has it added to the chances of securing a talented new president for Saint Mary's? 
What the original editorial did do was to display a petty preoccupation with the crucifixion of scapegoats. On no expressed, concrete grounds it vilified a human being for no perceivably constructive reason. If Sister Alma had not resigned, and if you had had solid evidence for your strong stance against her policies, such an editorial would have been, perhaps, as justified as you affirm it to have been. But neither of these con­ditions held, so the original piece must stand as an irretrievable monument to the abuse of a fundamental democratic freedom. You might consider regaining some respect from the community you serve by ad­mitting a gross error in judgment by printing an apology. 
I do not write in any effort to intimidate a frank editorial confrontation of campus issues, only to suggest that in the future you weign carefully the benefits of any personal onslaught against the human necessity to respect other human beings. 
Note: I am neither an official 
nor an unofficial apologist for 
anything (except possibly 
literature and, hopefully, some 
semblance of Christian charity). 
Sincerely yours, 
John J. McDonald 
Assistant Professor 
English 
Editor: 
In an editorial dated Jan. 28, 
1972, and entitled "Milking the 
Consumer," Mr. John Abowd 
seemed to indicate that the 
nation's price support program of 
farm commodities was "lining 
the pockets" of certain 
"professional" dairy farmers. 
Al~hough the principal import of 
thig editorial dealt with the 
organization of comsumer 
oriented interest groups, with 
which I sincerely agree, I 
nevertheless feel that some of 
the statements made concerning 
the practice of farm subsidy must be placed into a more ap­propriate perspective. 

To say that food is a bargain in this country is an un­derstatement. Less than 17 percent of the average American wage earner's paycheck is needed to obtain food with less than 5 percent of his disposable income going towards the pur­chase of raw farm commodities. Compare this with the grocery bill of the average Russian (approx.. 40 percent of his disposable income) or that of the average West European (25-30 percent) and it becomes clear that Americans can afford many items (boats, snowmobiles, campers, more than one automobile, vacations, etc.) to a large extent because of the relatively small percentage they must pay for food. 
The reason for this low per­centage in this country is that farmers simply are not paid very much for their wares in proportion to the rest of our economy. In 1950, when the sum of the disposable income of all wage earners was $240 billion,
each farmer produced enough to feed himself and 20 other people and earned as a collective in­dustry a net profit of 13 billion dollars. In 1969, the correspon­ding figures read as follows: national income, $770 billion; each farmer's production, enough for himself and 41 other people; collective profits of agriculture, $16 billion (this in-eludes all government subsidies) or an average of $5400. per farm: As a collective industry (in­eluding the dairy farmers), American agriculture in 1969 had a total capitol investment of 243.4 billion dollars; consequently, it required an average investment of $80730. for the American farmer to earn less than fifty-five hundred dollars. If allowance is made for his labor and management (figured at minimum wage) this profit represents a 1.1 percent return on investment. The "professional" farmer is in even worse shape; the 515,000 largest farms in the 
U.S. (including the "highly organized dairy" farms) earned in 1969 an average of only 0.9 percent return (including the "pocket lining" subsidies of the federal government) on an average $220,000 investment. Compare this to the profits of the food retail chains which earn an average of 23.6 percent return on investment or of the food processors,' obtaining a 22.4 percent return, or of all manufacturing corporations, receiving 19.9 percent (all figures are before taxes and after the proper allowance is made for management and labor.) 
The buying policy of the federal government in its price support programs actually serves as a guarantee that the cost of raw food commodities never exceeds 5 percent of his disposable in­come. By means of its acquired surplus the government can maintain and stabilize the price of all farm commodities at or around support level by 
releasing its holdings onto the market whenever the price in­creases. Such was the case in the fall of 1970 when corn blight 
severly reduced expected corn production; the government was able to keep the market price of corn from skyrocketing and causing a similar increase in the 
consumer cost of meat and cereals. There are less than three million farmers (both part and 
full time) left in the U.S., and as yet they are completely unorganized as a voting block. Could it be expected that less than 4 percent of the voting populace would be given economic concessions that would be detrimental to the remaining 96 percent of the voters? 
The people who farm are not in the business to get rich; the failure of the conglomerate farms in the late 1960's can attest to this. Farmers in general form a philosophically motivated group who love nature and the independence that working with nature brings. The American farmers' struggle for economic survival has made him the most efficient food producer in the history of mankind has ever known. It is in the best interest of the consumer to assist the family farm in its fight for existence. 
Sincerely, 
Leon LaPointe 
Editor: 

First of all we wish to thank the Observer for the interest it has expressed in our minority En­terprise Program here at Notre Dame. There are however,' certain points which should be clar.ified con~erning. the Minority ~usmess article wh1ch a~peared . m the February 8, 1972 Issue of 
· the Observer.. . . The Quon-T1k1 Boutique Ioca.ted at 208 W. Front Street, N1les Michigan, is owned by M~. Claud~ Span and Mrs. Lms Ll?ckndge and ~eca~e one of our chent compames m . late. Se~­tember of 1971, at wh1ch time 1t formu~ated a reque;;t for ac­c.ounh.ng, ~arketmg, and fmanc1al assistance. Mr. Jeff ~ones and myself were assigned m late December as con­sultants<I have no ownership w~atsoeve~ in the Boutique as is misstated m the Observer) and we have been strivin~ to develop an adequate marketmg plan as well a~ the acquisition. of funds to replemsh moveable mventory. Our gr~atest proble.m at . the present 1s that of workmg capital, for we have b~en forced to use the great~st portion of sales revenue to satisfy overdue debts as well as current accounts payable. . 
We. hope to partly solve th1s questiOn of funds by the sale of some 1,500 records which the store is currently holding in in­ventory. These records were not ordered by me as is stated in the article, nor were they .ordered by the owne~s of the bouti~ue. They were rec1eved and pa1d for by Mr. Span and Mrs Lockridge as part of the original purchase of the business.. . . 
However, smce the Bout1qu~ IS not a record shop but a clothmg store, no serious attempt has been made to eliminate this in­ventory. Consequently the records .have just sat in a back room m storage. We are curr.ently in. the. ~rocess of makmg a detailed hstmg of these records and hope to be able to sponsor a record sale, at cost, in the near future. Needless to say, any assistance we rec~iv{: from the student body will be of tremendous help. 
Once again, we thank you for your co-operation 
Sincerely yours, 
Eduardo Rueda 



THE OBSERVER Monday, February 14, 1972
Page 8 





HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY 

Sophomore Engineers 

Tiger, S.S.
Dear Peggy Br'er Bear Happy Valentines Day
Will you be my tuna-head, Briar patches are sticky Sunrises, first times, and
Happy Valentine's Day, Love, Marianne and Judi
Bunwad? darling and places. Castles are better for you I love 
Schmuck Happy 14th Your S.W.
remember I love you and miss Valentine's Day Kathy, Bertha, Paula, Teri, you very much. Br'er Rabbit Sue, Ann Marie, Ginny Lee,
Honey, Lisa
Grapes Forever Kay, Chris, Ginny, Julie,
Snoopy and I still say thank You really made my beer and 
Love, Phil Lyons we love you! Kathy, Margie and Marleen,
you. Because you are all my pizza taste good.
Smile and Flower No rose this time -I've adreams come true! 
FOMOC'O KID-The van, B.C., wish instead, May cupid bring Love, C.U., milkshakes and the Rock loves the POOH! The Sexy Six true -all the dreams in your
Jim Be my Valentines
Chief all wish you Happy heads
Love Dirty Hairy 

Valentine's Day. Dear Virginia Tech, Happy Valentine's daySnow Angel, 
Though friends are elsewhere Love -a friend
I love your beautiful, sensitive To Someone Across the road
sometimes Notre Dame i~
image. 

Tha~k you for writing,
J, nice. Steph ie-Whefie-Whefie­
501-snowed sharmg, loving 
My project is coming along Love LOU Stephie
Have a Happy Life, SMILE
fine & I shall never You're a good kid. Happy
one who cares

abandon it. Sunshine: come back Love Valentine's Day from a Badin Yours forever, Tom Favoritest ' exile.
My Angel, who has extended warmth, friendship, un­
To Sue, Ann, Trickie Dickie can't To the Observer EditorialPeggy, we've been (of love) a 
Roses are red Boogie Woogie like me, derstanding, and whom, in my 
Board:little more careful than of own way, I love.

everything else. All mine, Violets are blue Cub There once was a newsboy
of great love like ours what Happiness is you. Tom named Glen,James can be said Dear Bebbie, Oft seen with his saucy hen, except I love you. Happy Valentine's Day Dear Brer Bear As for he and his trainer,
Doretta 

Pete All my love, Happy Valentines Day. I
Come back-We all miss you As to whom is insaner,
Chris love you, DUM-DUM
The Boys Neither's worth even one yen.To Mary, T.R. Happy V.D. Grins 
My Bestest, Sweetest Jim-Paul-Jim-John-Jim
Happy Valentine's Day P.J. Pranksters 
Valentine forever Let's start celebrating LEAP Long Island's California
Someday I'll make you a Dreamer,

Love Pete YEAR
permanent Irish spaghetti Liebe CHARLIE BROWN: 
Your five DESPERATE in my heart, you're second
bender BDu bringst mein Blut in Love, me Third Emerging! Fantastic! senior M's. only to Walling. <Du weisst, was ich 
Love, Ye Olde Barge Inn "Here comes the Fudge" and Meine!)­Hunk To the girl who sews on little Sergio Das kleine rot -haasige
Rocky duckies: Your Funny Valentine
What a body! Be my Madchen 
One of America's great Will you be my Valentine?
Valentine? 

National Pastimes is Boo-Boo Bear To Colonel, Ann, Swan,
Love, Sonnenschein: Am Ende ist 
you know what Rozanne, Ojnar, Jean, Vicki,
Poncho die Liebe, die man nemmt, so
Terry, and Digger Humper,
from you know who ... ain't Dear Snoop: This Tiger is on gleich wit die Liebe, die man 
It fun though? the prowl for you See you all at the Valentine
Roommates-macht -kookie
Orgy!
! am coming back-honest. 

To: Hon. & Mrs. J.W.K. Your Sweethearts from
Happy Valentine's Day! Celine
Happy 3oth Anniversary to Niles
Roommate No. 3 You were right I did forget
the Greatest Parents a son P.S. Wear clean undies· 
your number. Auugh!

could have. Bring your own body ' 
Paul, (signed) Miserable Walsh 
J.A.K.

A special Valentine hello from hall domer dance partner. someone who loves you in (still Looking) 
Little Porkpie:Maldonada Breasts are breasts, thighs Paula, are thighs,

Riversudem Funny fantasies are never so
But the thighs of your breathts 
I love you with all my heart good
maketh me thigh

and stuffed animals. Happy 1-As old-time romance where
Pericles S. Goose

10-19 and Valentine's Day the Hero Has a Heroine who
Happy Valentines Day with
Lorn: Has long blonde braids.
love to a very special bozoette 
No matter what he thinks On this day I send you my Happy Valentine's Day "Moan": Love, Upper-Bunk 2-N "I don't, stop that! Hoping to see you again
I'll get you in the end. 

Happy Valentine's Day Because even in heavenMr, B
Kathy R. Love, Hog They don't sing all the time. You'll get yours Love, Scott
Boinger,

Superiorly, Ritzo Ratzo Salut Sunde£ V
Wishing you love and peace 
Grosses Bises Little Mike on this special day of the year. To a Ticklish Jo,
lovely lady Sally degoutante, Foyer, sous­Have a gravy Valentine's Day 
I love you very much, David Closeness Counts and
you are the lucky one, I need sol ni-l'un-ni-l'autre PEACH! XO
Susie Talking's part of ityou 
Chet's the latter less 

why aren't you here. I love Greif Possu. You're hand­Meg-
To Miss Fluff, with love for a From a "shaker" who loves
you some, strong, gentle, a good You're all the Florida Sun­
fairy tale chickie who you
Your kind sir cook and excellent in bed. shine I need Valentine!
brightens the days of a tongue­Who'd ever guess we're
tied youngster-D Ken,
Dear Credit Card: married?
Though we've apart

Everything's together once Turnip
To Professional El.-Ed Ap­you're close to my heartmore. 
plicant, mando la mia amore,
Where problems come from I NR
Valentines Day is just Cathy
don't know; Please don't...don't stop.
another day, But another day Linda,
Glad they're gone Lucky Ratzo
of growing affection and Buongiorno spacey, See how big the sky is! WowLove, Horace 
sharing life. lo riempa Mark 

Professional Bowler amore da rome, Margie, Mary Ann, Lori,
Hematit. Do-Do
"not so fat" <yet> Cindy:
We will learn to show Thanks for ships, koalas, you­
Pooh's gang in Grace says
What we know BS&T said it well.
11 mio grande vome, Happy Valentine's DaySharon 
Sarebbe cosi bello vedere 

To: A five foot one inch green­La tua faccia alia mia porta I love you whoever I am and
MG came, MG went eyed, Brown-haired mopper:
Con amore, whoever you are, whatever
You did not come T.R. -You have no right to I love you.
Tua Piccola Donna that means, and whenever
I missed you and so did smile like that 1st born From: A guy who's sweet,
that means anything at all.
the GANG. HAPPY Innocent, and adorable.
Clara's kidVALENTINES DAY Redman: yeah! 

Hope your days are full of MARY,
Yours in Indiana Bell H.B. Valentine
m&m's, t-shirts, & little igors. LET'S BE FOREVER
Happy Day Boo and HTH! Telephone, Since we saw the light, we've
Let's laugh again together AND MAKE TODAY AND
Much love, Pengy and Scarlett & Co. only just begun! 
0k? . ' EVERDAA Y "KERY"
Froggie Betting the ranch on it­
I LOVE YOU,

Bottom Bunk, Even with the H.S. and H.L.
Dear Jerk, KEVINOh Moo! You know, don't regolith shisted, I still love 
Jack wants Dolly, but you can
you? you. Susan, I've seen fire and I've
have us. Together forever Happy Valentine's Day Betty, 
' To Stevie, Love MMM­Happy Valentines Day. seen rain, but...
The owl and the dirigible. Peggy and Barb. Thank's for 
MELANIE Love, Shorty Happy Valentines Day. making my day a little Mary.
brighter.

H.D., To the Temptress: Affectionately.
My cookie friends are nice! Clem
What can I say to my lady in Thank you for the wonder of Uncle A. sends love, too.
Lots of love, Elvis

white? you A dirty Protestant
Baby Bear, I love you, come fly with me, Love, The Prophet 0 most beautiful thin one. Ji! Arthur's Holy Grail? Search 

our life's ahead, our island's "Makushla"
Your smile illuminates SE for something sweeter today ­
waiting, Dearest Valpo Lady: Happy Birthday 
dining hall MWF. Happy Happy Valentine's Day
with a keg of whiskey sours Happy Valentines Day Your love is wondrous.
Valentines Day. The Young Cub
Arrogant Bastard Jerry But keep the lid on your ID. 




Monday, February 1.4, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page v 


Chavez selected Demo delegate 
(c) New York Times 

Phoenix, Ariz., Feb. 13-When Anna Chavez was seven, her family moved here from Mexico, and the little girl was often confused. "Our first home was in the projects, and they were all painted the same," she remembered. "I'd walk out the front door and get lost--it hap­pened several times." 
At 27, Miss Chavez now knows her way around. Yesterday she was selected as a delegate to the Democratic Convention in Miami Beach next July. 
Arizona was the first state to complete its selection process, and the state convention chose Miss Chavez as one of six delegates pledged to Mayor John 
VALENTINES CONT. 
ah loves y'all, tex! m. 
I like you even though your not polish Kazczsyh-ski 
Peter, Valentine, I have it. Rough today and always 
Mary 
Margie, Ann Marie, Ginny, Paula, Rita, Terrie: Je vous aime moins aujour­d'hui que demain. 
P.J. 
Dearest <former> "Miss Bonventre" It has been bliss since we met. Thank you for your gift of yourself and our children. 
I love you. Tom 
S., From Cat to Consort, it's beautiful. 
Love, "Bager" 
Spruce, Thanks for a place to be somebody, for a friend. 
Love, Frosty 
Cupcake, Pack a suitcase this weekend. Happy Anniversary. 
Love, Me 
If we only have love, We can melt all the guns and then give the new world To our daughters and sons. 
To my gentleman lover Happy Valentines Day Your lady love. 
Kathy-We hardly scratched the surface of what it was or what it could be: I'll be around...if you like 
-Joe 
n.d.-s.m.c. if we only have love, to embrace without fears we will kiss with our eyes we will sleep without tears 
-mergerwaiters 
P. You'd better be my Valentine, or I'll shoot you. 
Q.D. 
Love sees not with the eyes, but with the mind. Happy Valentine's Day, Cindy 
Love, Pat V. Lindsay. Sen. Edmund S. Muskie won nine of the state's 25 votes, Sen. George McGovern captured five, and five are un­commited. 
Miss Chavez symbolizes the voices that are demanding to be heard under the Democrats' new reform procedures for selecting delegates. Of the 48 delegates and alternates picked here yesterday, 18 were women, 14 were chicanos, and 19 were under 30. There was even some grumbling that middle-aged white males were under-represented. 
One of eight children, Miss Chavez was born in Nogales just across the border from Arizona. Her father, a copper miner, died young, and her mother, a domestic worker. .decided her 
m 
butterflies and big flakes; funny thing y'know­how cooking and caring can help things to grow. 
j 

Sims, Boems, Patty and Carol Thanks ... Us Guys 
Delight In Disorder is Dingbatt's dirty nails. Love you, Michael 
Streaker, I can't bare not to be clothes to you... You nude it all along though, didn't you? ! ? 
Raggediannie 

To the Benzini Brothers From the Mothers: 200 Motels or 50 bucks Whichever comes first. 
Happy VD To the guys in 3B From those loving chicks Who furnish your kicks 
Love, the Maids 

Love. To Uncle Honey From the Honey Bunny Forever. 
Hey Caballerro -a Ia pena bene deep. 
Engineer-She said destroy, but com­puters never fail: New Year champagne flowed. 
Bon Jour de Valentine 747 Elementary Combinatorial Analyist 

Happy Valentine's Day 
Chiefs chimp and Orangutan Love Second Shift 
Stephanie, You have all of my love on this day and all the days to come Happy Valentine's Day Keith children would · have better educational opportunities in the United States 
But the two older boys had to drop out of highschool to support the family and Anna had trouble adjusting. "I went to a catholic school for a year," she recalled, "and the first rule was not to speak Spanish. I'm not the kind to keep quiet very long, and whenever I spoke, I spoke in Spanish, so I spent a lot of time sitting in front of the blackboard with horns on my head, being punished." 
Now an educational specialist for a community service organization, Miss Chavez feels that most American schools destroy young Chicanos. "They kept making us feel the djf-
To SMO Happy Valentines Day 
JAK 

When I think of a carefree day With school out of the way I remember the Happy times A world of love -A world that shares No more people that shove ­only people that care And then comes a ray of sunshine And she's mine -My Valentine 
S.F. 

Bobby, I love you. Here's to many more Apple Scruffa, candle-lit rooms, and a beautiful summer together. 
Love, Denny 

Frank, xoxoxoxoxo xoxoxoxoxo xoxoxoxoxo xoxoxoxoxoxoxoxo 
Love, 
Ginny 

Deer Tess, Let's spend Valentine's in the woods 
Da' Griz 

--------"00" wishes Pam and Barb a Happy Valentine's 
Love, 
James Gang 

Annie-May 7 months turn into 70 years Happy Valentine's Day 
T.S. 

Happy MCAHRRYI PSATTORPIHCEIRA 
Dirty Jack Happy Valentine's day and may the bird of Buffalo Crap on your beard 
ABBFKMMP 

C.I.L.A. SLIDE SHOW 
Tuesday, February 15 
7:30 
Auditorium: 
Architecture Building Come to hear of last summer's proiect 
ference between us and them, but they never made us feel that the difference was good," she said. "We always felt inferior." 
Miss Chavez registered and worked in the campaign of the 
, young chicano running for the school board. When she was approached recently by some Chicano activists to run for delegate to the state Democratic Convention, she did not know what they were talking about, but she agreed. Once she was in­volved, she found it exhilerating. "We got people involved who have never been involved in politics before, like my family," she said 
George----need it... want it...got to have it! 
Carol 

Tommy­ILYWAMHAS-AAW! Forever yours, Rob 
M. Gary T. 
The best roommate, most wonderful guy, and greatest All-around person in the world. 
With honest love .Chief 
Happy Valentine's Day Table. From an Egg who cares. Friends? 
JaCK 
We miss your Bod Love Lena and Uppsula 
To a top-notch Tootie, and a Good Old Gal Be My Valentine. Franz (your 

Wed. Feb. 16 
Through 


Sun..Feb. 2 0 Pnces 

$4.50, $3.50, $2.50 Student Discount 
For Thurs. 8 pm Sat. 2 pm Sun. 6 pm Tickets are 12 Requfar Price Discount Tickets must be purchased at ACC box office 
A PAULIST DOESN'T WAIT TO BE ORDAINED 
TO GET INVOLVED. 
If you think that ordination is something like graduation -and the time in between is similar to marking time-then you couldn't be more mistaken. 
The Paulists were founded with the belief that each man is a member of the community and he contributes his own thing. Each is an individual with his own talents and he is given the freedom to use them in his own way. But not later. Now. 
Fer instance, during the no­vitiate, novices work in such diverse areas as hospitals, voca­tional rehabilitation centers and Universities. They serve as assist­ant chaplains, co-retreat masters, student teachers and psychiatric aides. 
Paulist Seminarians create recreational programs, direct "Days of Recollection" for CCD students, direct film series, ex­periment with the use of media in the liturgy as a preaching tool, originate and edit the Paullst Free Press, coordinate Lenten lectures and organize Home Masses, to mention just a few. 
When you commit yourself to the Paulists, it isn't a someday thing. It's now. Today. 
For more information about the Paulists write to: Rev. Don­ald C. Campbell, C.S.P., Voca­tion Director, Room 300. 



paUistfothets. 
415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 
:\~ 
~~ 
~-·~,t :i.4

·r;,?c,.·' f 4' 
• __ 

~;~:~~ ~~ 
"·'···· I/IIN: ~ 
;J.":: ,.'· , .. '. ·" · .· I' · 
· '~ ' , ' ./ 
. ,, ~../..•. 
• .........._ 

Senior Bar Open Tonight after the game St. Valentine's Day Special 
All drink prices reduced 25'-beer 35'-shot
-/



1o~ off-all other drinks BUY YOUR-GIRL THAT SPECIAL (DOZ.) 
............~~.~~.~,~~*****'~~~
Coming Friday Gay Ninties Night
l. With live banio music 
Page 10 THE OBSERVER Monday, February 14, 1972 
•

Wisconsin zcers top Irish· twice 
by Jim Donaldson too hard to set up good shots and were only able to come up with This time, the Irish weren't Johnston put the game beyond Sports Editor we're not shooting enough." one goal. Gary Winchester tied able to regain their lead and Jim Notre Dame's reach midway "We did some good things this the game, 2-2, at 14:22, blasting a Young netted the winning goal for through the final session, picking 
Madison, Wisc.-Notre Dame's 
weekend, though," Smith con­30-foot slap shot from the left the Badgers at 18:17, backhan­up a loose puck out of a scramblehockey team found out once tinued. "We did a good job of wing into the far corner of the ding a 12-footer into the cage. in front of the Irish goal andagain why the Wisconsin Badgers checking and the (Pat) Conroy net. Norm Cherrey completed putting it into the net at 9:07. 
are the class of the WCHA, line played well together." Notre Dame took the lead Wisconsin's scoring by notching Gary Kuklinshi completed thedropping a pair of games to the The aU-freshman line of Conroy again early in the third period an open net goal with 23 seconds Badgers' scoring, beatingBig Red over the weekend in 
when Conroy fired a 10-footer left to play. Kronholm from 16 feet out on theand wings John Campbell and
Madison. that Makey couldn't handle. Although the score was close, right side with only 12 seconds
Ray DeLorenzi scored four goals
The Badgers scrambled past This time, it took Wisconsin the Badgers had a wide ad­left.
Friday night and almost led the
the Irish 6-4 Friday night and won almost seven minutes to vantage in shots taken, Once again, Wisconsin's of­
Irish to an upset victory. The
handily on Saturday night, 5-1, Badgers overcame one-goal retaliate. Jim Johnston netted outgunning the Irish by a 45-19 fensive prowess was evident in 
before a couple of standing room the save totals. Kronholm
the equalizer at 8:50, backhan­count. Kronholm came up with 39deficits four times, however, to
only crowds of 8,000-plus at the salvage the win. ding a seven-footer between Irish saves to Makey's 15. stopped 37 shots while Perkins Dane County Memorial goalie Mark Kronholm's legs. Wisconsin carried the play to made only 21 saves.
Conroy put the Irish in front
Coliseum. Two weeks ago, Kronholm was in the nets for the Irish again Saurday and,
just 1:38 after the opening 


Fencers split
Wisconsin had beaten Notre both games against the Badgers after a tight first period,
Dame twice by 5-3 scores at the faceoff, taking a pass from the because the club's number one gradually pulled away to its 
rear boards by Campbell and by Joe Wilkowski
ACC. netminder, Dick Tomasoni, has . fiftennth home ise triumph in 16
backhanding a 15-footer past The Notre Dame fencing team
The wins left the Badgers atop yet to fully recover from a con­starts this year. 
the WCHA with 42 title points Wisconsin goalie, Jim Makey. cussion he suffered in Notre suffered a heart-breaking defeat
Notre Dame was again the first 
while the Irish were unable to The Badgers tied the score with Dame's last meeting with at the hands of the University of 
team on the scoreboard, John
improve on their total of 22 title 12:30 gone in the period, Lloyd Detroit Titans in the first part of
Wisconsin. 

Noble giving the Irish an early
points. Wisconsin is now 17-5 in Bentley tipping in Stan Hinkley's The Badgers put heavy a triangular meet Saturday af­
advantage by beating the
league play and 21-5 overall. The pass from the left point while pressure on Kronholm after ternoon, 14-13. In the second part
Badgers' frosh goalie, Dick
Campbell was in the penalty box of the meet, the Irish routed the
Irish record dropped to 7-13 in the Johnston's score, but it was Notre Perkins, with a high shot while University of Chicago, 19-8.
league and 11-15 on the year. because of an interference Dame that came up with the next Wisconsin was shorthanded.
penalty. · With two bouts left in the match 
Despite Notre Dame's two goal. Campbell did the honors for Both clubs had two men in the against Detroit, the Irish held adefeats, Irish coach Lefty Smith Notre Dame regained the lead the Irish, firing a 25-footer that 
before the period ended, though, penalty box when the Badgers 13-12lead, and a victory by either
praised his club's performance. took a couple of funny bounces tied the game, midway through Jim Mullenix in foil or Chuck"I know it sounds odd but, as DeLorenzi pumped in a and eluded Makey. 
the opening period. Tim Dool lit Harkness in epee would have iced overall, I thought we did quite rebound at 16:34. Conroy started Wisconsin refused to fold, the red light with a 25-foot slap the meet. Detroit was not to bewell," he said. "I thought that we the scoring play by feeding however, and tied the score again shot from the left wing. denied, however, and afterplayed well enough to win Friday Campbell, breaking down the left at 14:31 when Gary Winchester The Badgers forged ahead in Mullenix dropped his bout, Chuck night and on Saturday, we just wing, enabling him to go in alone shot the puck, directly from a the second period on goals by took all-American Fred Hookerdidn't take enough shots." on Makey. The Badger netminder faceoff to Kronholm's right, over 
stopped Campbell's low shot but Bentley, at the 6:00 mark, and to the limit before dropping the
The losses extended Notre the soph goalie's right shoulder Young, who scored on a bout 5-4.
Dame's losing streak to six was unable to control the and into the cage before breakaway at 16:20. Notre Dame did extremely well games. The Irish have been able rebound. DeLorenzi swooped in Kronholm had a chance to react. 
against the trio of Titan all­to win just three of their last 14 on the loose puck and managed to 
WCHA outings. get a shot away just before Americans. Both Tim Taylor and 

ND swimmers nip Bonnies 
Mike Matranga were able to
"The team is like a baseball Wisconsin's Brian Erickson sent player in a slump," Smith him flying. The puck, DeLorenzi by E. J. Kinkopf in the Rockne Memorial pool. defeat Fred Hooker in epee. Ron 
Cane set records in two in­Sollitto knocked off Ken Blake in commented. "They're pressing and Makey all ended up inside the Led by an outstanding per­dividual events, and anchored a saver by a convincing 5-2 score.
and it backfires on them. The net. formance by freshman Jim Cane, record-setting freestyle relay And, in one of the most excitingpast couple of weeks, we've been The Badgers dominated the the Notre Dame swim team 
getting good shots but they action in the second period, edged the St. Bonaventure team that won the meet's matches of the afternoon, Mike decisive race. Cornwall earned a 5-4 decision
haven't gone in. Now we're trying outshooting the Irish 16-5, but tankers 61-52 Saturday afternoon 
The frosh flash set a new pool over NCAA foil champion Tyrone and varsity mark in the 200 yard Simmons. 
freestyle event with a 1:48.4 The epee team dominated the timing, and bettered the school lists Saturday, winning 6 of their by Vic Dorr a game while scoring only 75.9 Digger Phelp's cagers, seeking record in the 100 yard freestyle nine bouts. All three starters, themselves, and last week's win their second win in a row and competition with a 49.1 clocking. Chuck Harkness, Tim Taylor, 

Cagers meet BG Falcons tonight 
The 1971-72 basketball teams 
over Miami was the first B-G third out of their last four games, He then teamed up with John and Mike Matranga, went 2-1 infrom Bowling Green and Notre 
Dame have surprisingly much in triumph in ten games. will go with the same lineup that Sherk, Joe O'Connor and Gene the match. The sabre team went Bowling Green has been they used in Saturday's victory Krathaus in the 400 yard freestyle 4-5, with both Ron Sollitto and
common. Both teams are run by young, plagued by inconsistency this over DePaul. John Egart and relay to set another varsity Matt Fruzynski going 2-1. The 
Don Silinski will start at guart for mark, and win the meet. real disappointment of the af­first-year coaches. Neither has season (they beat St. Bonaven­
ture, 87-84, but lost to Cleveland the Irish, while Gary Novak will The new time of 3: 16.5 was ternoon was in foil, 3-6, whereoverwhelming height, and both 
are without seniors in their State, 83-80) but still have the be in the pivot and Tom O'Mara. more than five seconds better only Mike Cornwall was able to starting lineups. Both teams offensive potential to give the and Willie Townsend will fill the than the old mark. come through with a 2-1 record. have had to turn to football Irish a rough night. In their upset forward slots. other Irish first place finishers In the second contest of the 
over Miami, the Falcons were were Joe O'Connor, 1,000 yard afternoon, Notre Dame took out
players to fill gaps in their Tonight's varsity contest will freestyle, Gene Krathaus, 50 yard its frustrations on the fencersrosters. Finally, the two clubs down by three at intermission be preceded by a 5: 45 freshman 
but hit on 15 of 20 attempts fro~ freestyle, and Ed Strack, 200 from Chicago. Leading at one
have similiar records. Notre game. The Irish frosh, now 9-5 on 
the field in the second half to yard butterfly. point 14-1, the Irish freely sub­
Dame is 5-14, while Bowling the year, will meet a team from 
clinch the win. The victory upped the ND stituted, fencing 25 people in the
Green is 3-14 after Satur­Chicago--the Chicago Hustlers. 

day's game with Marshall U. Notre Dame's lineup will The two teams will meet feature three juniors and a pair of 
tonight at 8:00 in the Athletic and sophomores, while the Falcons Convocation Center, and despite will counter with three sophs and 
the similiarties, this is a game in two juniors. Versatile Dalynnwhich the Irish should be Badenhop, who can play anyfavored. position, will lead the Falcons For Bowling Green, despite into tonight's game. A 6-5 junior,last week's upset of Mid­Badenhop will start at forward,American Conference leader but will move to guard or center 
Miami (0), has been a team as the situation demands. He is 
with problems this season. And a averaging 14.4 points and 5.2 lack of height has been Bowling rebounds a game.Green's biggest problem to date. 
Badenhop's running-mate atThe team which the Falcons forward will be 6-5 Le Henson,will field against the Irish tonight another junior. Henson ishas a front line that goes 6-5, 6-6, averaging 8.2 points, and his 476-5, and a backcourt of 6-3, 6-1. 
per cent accuracy figure from the "I don't know of any major­floor is one of the team's best. 6-6college team which will be as sophomore Brian Scanlan willsmall as we are," said Dave round out the Falcon front court. 
Haley, B-G's-rookie coach. "But Scanlan, scoring 11.1 points a we hope to compensate our game, is B-G's leading rebounder shortcomings with a brand-new with a 6.6 average.
offensive system based on the Tony Bell, a "6-3 sophomore whofast break variety of man-to-man played wide receiver for B-G'sand pressing defenses. Of course, football team will start at one ofthe hardest part of our fast break the guard slots, while Jim Kindle will be starting it. 
(6-1) will fill the other. Between"Because of our lack of size," them, the Falcon backcourt mencontinued Haley, "we'll have to are averaging 12.5 points a game.
gamble on defense. Our ob­jective will be to force our op­Bobby Hotaling, a 6-5 forward, ponents to run things they don't also figures to see plenty of action want to run." against the Irish. Hotaling came 
The Falcon defense hasn't been off the bench to score 17 points in too successful in that department B-G's win over Miami and coach this season. Bowling Green has Dave Haley will be looking for allowed an average of 85.4 points him to do a similiar job tonight. 
tankers record to 7-2. match. 
Cultural Arts Commission's Literary Program Presents: 


Saul Bellow 

Tuesday, Feb. 15 
8:00pm 
Stepan Center 
Admission 50¢ 


Monday, February 14, 1972 71/E OBSERVER Page 11 
Second half blitz tops Demons 
by Vic Dorr by Novak, but the Blue Demons-­
DePaul was still in the game at 
The Notre Dame basketball who dominated the boards during this point, and they stayed within team defeated DePaul 93-78 the early going --quickly ran the striking distance for the next five Saturday afternoon, and the win score to 29-20. minutes. But O'Mara put the came as something of a milestone But that was to be DePaul's game away at 1:58 when he 
for the Irish cage squad. largest lead of the contest. duplicated his earlier streak and O'Mara hit three field goals in clicked on three consecutive field It was more than their fifth win 
little more than half a minute to goals. That gave the Irish their of the season. Saturday's game 
cut DePaul's margin to two at largest lead of the day, 16 points,was the first home triumph for 
2:19,and the teams traded scores and Phelps took advantage of it tothe ND team in more than two 
for the rest of the half. Willie shuttle his reserves into themonths-since December 6th--and 
Townsend moved the Irish to game.
the Irish were able to win it by 
within one when he dropped in a The Blue Demons, whosetaking advantage of a strong 
pair of free throws just three record now stands at 8-8, were led second half. 
seconds before intermission. in scoring and rebounding by 6-2"The heat in the locker room 
"We came out and worked in AI Burks. Burks scored 24 pointsdid it," joked assistant coach 
the second half,"said Irish coach and grabbed 11 rebounds for theFrank McLaughlin. "It was 
Digger Phelps. "We didn't want Demons, and he was followed byabout 106 degrees when we came 
to throw the ball away, and we Jim Marino, who scored 15in here at halftime, so we had 
were playing more as a team. We points, and by Nick Hirtzig, whoeverybody take a 15-minute 
weren't standing around as much tallied 14. 
sauna baths before going back 
out there." Novak and O'Mara led the Irish out for the second half." 
in scoring, but they receivedWillie Townsend's steal-and­The "steaming" locker room ample ssupport from Williescore off the press two minutesmight have ahd something to do 

into the second half gave the Irish Townsend, who had 16, and Mikewith it, but the hot shooting of Townsend, who scored nine.
their first lead of the game, 43-42,Gary Novak and Tom O'Mara 
and Tom O'Mara scored just a The win left ND with a 5-14probably made a greater dif­
minute later to give ND the lead record going into tonight's gameference. Novak, who was high for good, 45-44. The Blue Demons against Bowling Green, and itpoint man for the game with 34 were able to pull within one on also gave Phelps a chance topoints, and O'Mara who finished several occasions after this, but comment on the progress ofwith 27, scored 18 and 17 points 
they never came any closer. his team.
respectively in the second period. 
"We've still got to mature aNotre Dame eventually Notre Dame----and the bit," admitted Digger. "We're

finished with a .494 percentage Townsend brothers in particular-Gary "Goose" Novak dropped in 34 points, his best effort of the and still a
young we're little

from the field, but it took the Irish -erased DePaul's advantage on srason. to lead the Irish to a 93-78 romp past DePaul Saturday at the green, but we're coming. Thingsa while to find the range. A spell the boards during the second ACC. 
began to turn around when we

o( cold shooting at the outset of half. Willie pulled down 17 The Irish out-rebounded the "Both Mike Townsend and Don beat LaSalle and scored 97 pointsthe game dropped ND into an 11-3 rebounds during the game and Demons 54-44, and once ND Silinski did real good jobs for us against them in the Palestra.
deficit. The Irish battled back Mike grabbed 11, while Gary gained board superiority they today," said Phelps, "and "These kids have been through to tie the score at 18 on a bucket Novak chipped in with 12 more. began to pull away. Townsend helped us especially 
a lot this year, but they just never with a couple of big offensive give up. A lot of people thought rebounds there in the second they would after that Indiana
Wrestlers defeat Findlay,Akron 
half." bomb, or after we lost to UCLA 
Notre Dame opened up a ten­
by "Lefty" Ruschmann spotted Bob Tompkins, his op­scored a pin on two occasions, but the first time, but they didn't. 
ponent, a 2-0 spread on a first­point lead at the 6:55 mark, when They never quit."
Coach Terry Mather's was forced to settle for a 13-2 DePaul's AI Burks was whistled Digger was right. His kids
period takedown. Moylan, verdict.
wrestlers swept a pair of matches for goal-tending, and the 72-62
however, got them back with a never did give up. And now 
over the weekend to assure their In the 167-pound battle, Mike
reversal and then took the margin brought a standing they've got a home win to show
winningest season ever. By Turnbull held NO's Mike Kemp 
ovation from the Irish crowd. for their efforts.
momentum. After a predicament
defeating Findlay College Friday scoreless. Turnbull scored in
and takedown put him in front, 6­
night, 41-8, and the University of every period to accumulate an 8-0
2, Steve registered a pin at 5:54.
Akron, 3G-15, on Saturday, the advantage. Akron's Roland 

ND frosh edged,71-70 
Irish matmen upped their record Akron recovered in the next Boose then put his club in con­to 10-2, which includes an un­two matches to close to 12-7. tention for the last time during by Joe Passiatore a rout. Greg Boyd started things defeated home slate. George Jenking outmuscled Rich the match by topping 177-lb. Rich Notre Dame's freshmen by making a three-point play for 
In the Findlay match, Notre Esposto in the 134-pound match Komar, 7-3. the Demons. Boyd, a six foot
basketball team tried to snatch 
Dame wasted little time with a 6-0 shutout. Wiry 142-pound guard, physically resembled
AI Rocek and Jeff Turley, 190-victory from the jaws of defeatJim Robinson dealt Kurt
establishing supremacy. 118-pounders, played cat-and-mouse against DePaul Saturday af­Henry Bibby of UCLA and un­pounder Mike Martin grabbed a Bramble a punishing 14-4 for most of their match, which ternoon, however, their late fortunately for the Irish the 
2-0 lead at the outset and hung on decision, though it was close for ended in a 1-1 stalemate. Rocek's flurry was not enough to offset comparison didn't end there. 
two periods.
for a 6-5 decision over Jim Aerni. escape early in the final period the listless manner in which they Boyd was a perfect 10 of 10 from 
Steve Moylan of the Irish 150-pound Ken Ryan made the field and he made 4 of 5 free 
lead to the tie, which gave the played the opening moments of 
required only 1:27 to pin Roger throws to lead the Demons with
things more comfortable for the Irish enough points to sew up the each half. 
Clark, and Rich Esposto followed Irish with his reeord-tying 47th match. DePaul, which entered the 24 points. suit with a third-period pin over career victory over Bob Divititis. Mike Fanning frosted it with game with an 19-1 record, was DePaul continued to roll and by 134-pound Gary Kirk to stake ND the 14 :37 mark the score had
Both men matched deuces in the another pin, this one coming in hardly as awesome as their 
to a 15-0 lead. opening session, but Ryan the sixth minute of his record would indicate, but the ballooned to 50-34 against Notre Findlay's Bob Pitts decisioned quickly wore his man down after heavyweight bout against Jim Demons prevailed 70-69. In the Dame. The frosh refused Kurt Bramble in the 142-lb. event. that. After two near-falls gave Pukas. Fanning established a 6-0 last minute, DePaul held a 70-65 to lay down, though, and when 
But this was a close as Findlay him a 15-4 bulge, Ryan finally got lead in the first two minutes and lead and two free throws by Brokaw again caught fire the 
was going to make it as Ken Ryan his hard-earned pin. then had to contend with Pukas' Dwight Clay and a basket by Pete Demon lead quickly dissipated. and Fritz Bruening registered Fritz Bruening rolled over slowdown tactics. The win was Crotty resulted in the closeness of Dwight Clay scored a lay-up after 
pins to put the match out of Akron's 158-poun Jim Gaul, Fannings' 19th this season, the final score. Brokaw hit him with along lead reach. Ryan snapped a 2-2 pass to cut the margin to 56-48 at
limiting him to but a second­seventeen of them coming by The Leprechauns' lethargic
stalemate early in the middle pins. Both are Irish records. style of play in the early minutes 10:11. Brokaw forced a turnover,
period reversal. Fritz almost
period to pin J V. Sullivan in the quickly got them into trouble. .rocovered the ball, and scored battle of 150's. Bruening, after DePaul scored nine unanswered himself on the next play to make scoring a near-fall midway it 56-50.
points in one stretch and l~ 15-7. 
through the 158-pound match, Next came a dubious goal
At 7:49 in the first half DePaul 
finally managed to pin John tending call against Pete Crotty
still maintained their eight point 
Savel at 4:34. to reinstate DePaul's eight point 
edge, 25-17. At this point Gary
With the Irish ahead by a 27-3 lead. After a stretch where the
Brokaw came alive and brought
count, Findlay did its last scoring teams traded baskets, Bedford
Notre Dame back into the game. 
of the meet. Jim Crane of Findlay Bruno contributed a tip-in and
He fed Bedford Bruno while
needed a third-period reversal on shortly thereafter, at 3:06,
driving down the lane to give
Mike Kemp to come out on top in Brokaw converted two free
Bruno a lay-up which made the
the 167-pound tangle, 5-3. 177-throws to make the score 66-64. 
score 25-19. On DePaul's ensuing 
pund Jim Sigg then wrestled Bill Clay then stole a DePaul pass and 
offensive play Brokaw stole a
Moran to a 5-5 standstill to make fed Brokaw who was fouled. 
pass and drove downcourt for a
the score 29-8. Brokaw hit the first shot in a 
pay-up. The next two times
Notre Dame's AI Rocek rolled bonus situation, but failed on the
downcourt, the 6'3" guard hit on 
up a 5-0 advantage over 190-second.
outside jump shots which were
pound Jim Wegesin before Greg Boyd then produced
separated by a DePaul free throw 
recording a pin at 4:53 of the another three point play which
and the score was 26-25, DePaul,
second period. Heavyweight was the fatal blow to Notre Dame 
at 4:25.
Mike Fanning closed the match hopes. DePaul made a free throw 
Aside from this spurt, however, 
by notching his 18th season win to create their 70-65 advantage,
and a hot streak in the second
by making short work of Ed and then came the Clay and
half, Brokaw experienced what
Sustesic, pinning him in 2:47. Crotty scores. 
was for him a sub-par per­
Saturday night's opponent, Pete Crotty had his fourth
formance. He scored 24 points,
Akron, turned out to be more consecutive twenty point plus
but made only 6 of 17 shots from 
stubborn, however, getting tough game as he t~led 21, nine 
the field.
after the Irish swept to a 12-0 coming on free throws. Bedford lead. Mike Martin got things DePaul withstood the late first Bruno was flawless in shooting, 5 going with a middle-stanza pin half charge by Notre Dame and of 5 from the field and 1 for 1 from 
led 33-31 at halftime. Early in the
over Jeff Wellisin, after notching the line for 11 points. a near-fall which gave him a second half, however, they Notre Dame's record is now 9 
threatened to tum· the game into 
healthy 7-0 lead. Steve Moylan and 5.


Page 12 THE OBSERVER Monday, February 14, 1972 
Walsh and Badin seen as girls' residence dorms 

It's even more fun to imagine it at three o'clock in the morning while climbing down in a nightgown. Could be a once-in-a -lifetime experinece; as a matter of fact, it probably would be a once-in-a-lifetime experinece. The same applies to Badin's excuse fro a fire escape. 
The electrical wiring in the halls has been recently improved and seems sufficient. However, room and hall lighting is in sad shape. 
The room sinks are great an­

tiques; trouble is. they must be 
used, not just looked at. The 
mirrors are a joke for putting a 
make-up 
Heating is controlled from 

above or beyond, so that is 
standard, but radiator guards are 
a nice thought. 
All bathrooms need better 
lighting, shelves, sinks, fro~ted 
windows and a general cleanmg. 
This is obviously a top priority 
concern. 
A Lack of Furniture 
Most of the rooms visited (to all 

bothered residents a big thanx) 
had ample furniture and 
decorations. The catch however, 
is that all furniture (excluding 
bunkbeds and desks) is privately 
owned. Here's hoping the 
University can hunt up dressers, 
lamps, curtains, chairs and 
maybe some shelving. Those 

things go a long way towards 
making a room livable. 

The room variety is good, buyt structuring is conducive to 
Insurance missold 
(Continued from page 4) 
Joe convincingly. The salesman urged Joe to buy a cheaper (and never before mentioned) in­surance policy. Despite his persuasive arguments Joe en­dured the phone battle and hung up the receiver. 
Within the next week Joe was contacted by another College Master's representative. He also received five letters from dif­ferent insurance companies. Joe fatigued by all the phone calls learned to leave his phone off the hook. 
be done to Walsh and Badin is Personally, I'd be prepared for anybody's guess right now. the worst and hoping for the best. 

Student Financial 
Aid 
New and Renewals 
For 1972-1973 Application Deadline: May 1, 1972 
Parents Confidential Statement To Be Filled by April 1, 1972 Pick up forms now Office of Financial Aid Room 1 1 1 Administration Building 
CLASSIFIED ADS 

lounge space and very little their rooms as they see fit. Lots of bedroom space. It will probably li<:'k moving those walls around. be up to the girls to rearrange Just how much renovating will 



But Will It Cluck? 
Minneapolis, (NYT)--A research technician for General Mills, Inc., has in­vented a simulated egg that approximates a boiled, poached or fried hen's egg. 
Patent 3,640,732, which was award this week to ernest W. Jackson, says the product may be mixed with other materials in a salad or eaten as is, for breakfast. It is still un­dergoing laboratory tests and so far has not reached the supermarket. 
The white part of the simulated egg may be made from water, vegetable oil, a gell for­ming material and a gel setting agent. The yolk part may be made from similar materials with the addition of coloring matter. The appropriate shape may be im­parted molding. 
The company hhad no immediate an­nouncement on production. 

AND LIVE ENTERT-AINMENT 
Every Friday night 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
Every Saturday night 
POLKA BAND·DANCING 
Open Weekdays 1.1 

LAUREL &HARDY \~~ 
PIZZA PJ.\LACE ~·:.-~-~ 4ti10Western Ave. Belleville Shoppin2 Center 
Phone 289-7983 
WANTED 

POETRY WANTED for An­
thology. Include stamped en­velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California. 90021. 
-

Need ride to Ohio University; Athens, Ohio. Feb. 18. 5192. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh Feb. 17 or 18. Call 4864. 
Need ride to U. of Ill. Feb. 18 Call 4353. 
Models needed $10-hr, Male or Female. Call. 6-8 pm. 283-6811. 
-
PERSONALS 

Acquaintances, friends, pals, wonderfully HUMAN people and "buddy" who made my stay 
EX­TO 
BE 
per Call 
and to 
LOST: RING, GOLD WITH BLUE STONE, BISHOP KEARNEY H.S. REWARD $5.00. CALL 8341. 
-
Lost: Dietzgen slide rule. Brown leather case. Initials J.F.K. on 
tab. Reward. Ca II 272-2227. 
-
Lost: Ladies gold watch. Sen­timental value. Peggy 272-2551. 
--
~-­
NOTICES 
DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and Within Europe. Leave anytime from NY -Chicago. Flight Center 227 North RandalL Madison, WI 53706. (608) 263-3131. 
ATTENTION PRE-LAW STUDENTS!!! LSAT REVIEW COURSE NOW ACCEPTING STUDENTS FOR APRIL (AND FOR OTHER LSAT TESTS.) FOR INFORMATION CONTACT: 
EDUCATIONAL IDEAS: KELLY FLYNN, 232-8236. AVERAGE SCORE INCREASE 100 POINTS. 
Need typing done??? Will do typing for reasonable rates and on short notice --don't waste time pecl<.ing away. Call Chip 8256. 
OVERSEAS JOBS FOR STUDENTS. Australia, Europe, 
s. America, Africa, etc. All professions and occupations, $700 to $3,000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing, Free in­formation Write, JOBS OVERSEAS, Dept. F2, Box 15071, San Diego, Ca. 92115. 
EUROPE THIS SUMMER-Notre Dame credit at University of Vienna, Austria. Ample op­portunity for tours or independent travel. 234-6519. -Juniors Sign up to have your portrait taken for the 1973 year­book. 2-C LaFortune. 9-6:00 daily or call 1454. To be in the book, you must be photographed now. 
Computer Dating Write: Data-Mate P.O. Box 703 South Bend. -· 
FOR RENT 
Summer rent: 3-bedroom house near Miami St. Comfortable, large. $150-month. 287-0350. 
Two bedroom townhouse near Town and Country Shopping Center. 1'.'2 baths. Reasonable. Call anytime after 5 259-0512. 
Words 1da 2da 3da 4da 5da 1-10 .65 .95 I.I 5 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 








