
On The Inside 
Mafia gunman sought ... page 4 
Ed Ellis comments on Hubert Humphrey ... page 10 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VI, No. 110 Friday, April 14, 1972 
Opens Indiana ca1npaign 
HHH: Nixon over-extending 
by Jerry Lutkus and Ed Ellis 
Charging the Nixon Administration with "the over-extensive use of executive privilege," Minnesota Senator Hubert Humphrey claimed yesterday that "there is no open government. It's more closed that its ever been." 
Humphrey argued that today decisions are 
being made solely in the White House--Henry 
Kissinger dealing with foreign policy and Peter 
Flanagan and the Justice Department on the 
I.T.T. situation. 
He continued, "We're getting now to the point where the Congress no longer has any way of being able to interrogate those men who make the decisions." 
Limitation of executive privilege in war situations has now passed the Congress and Humphrey heralded this as a proper limitation of the President's power. He claimed that it does not hamper the President as Commander-in­Chief. 
He termed this bi11 "the result of the lessons of 
Viet Nam." 
The bill prohibits the President from com­mitting troops into combat for more than a 30 day period without Congressional approval. 
Humphrey was questioned if this could protect the country from a President who WOtlld recommit troops every 30 days. To this he an­swered that there is no true protection, except for "the good judgement and common sense of the President." 
no true protection 
i lumphrey was questioned if this could protect the country from a President who would recommit troops every 30 days. To this he an­swered that there is no true protection, except for "the good judgement and common sense of the President." He termed the only ultimate protection as "the heritage, background, and faith of the people you put in government. There is no way you can protect yourself from the abuse of power totally except to have people in government who have been born and reared in the democratic tradition ... who understand the limits of power and the responsibility of a man in constitutional government." 
In the press conference at the Albert Pick Motor Inn, he called himself the front-runner of the Democratic candidates. and cautioned In­diana Democrats against voting for George 
Wallace. 

Humphrey also spoke of University of Notre 
Dame President Theodore Hesburgh when a 
reporter questioned him concerning recent 
Hesburgh attacks on Nixon's education policies. 
The Minnesota Senator could not respond to 
Hesburgh 's comments because he hadn't seen 
them in their entirety. He mentioned his "great 
respect" for Fr. Hesburgh. 

"I believe that I would be pretty much in tune 
with what the distinguished president of Notre 
Dame University would feel. I've watched his 
work as chairman of the Commission on Civil 
Hights and heralded it from time to time 
whenever. in fact. a report has been made. 
'comfortably ahead' 
Heturning to politics, Humphrey said he was 
out front of the Democratic contest. He said he 
was "comfortably ahead according to the Gallup 
Poll." 

The question at hand for Humphrey is the Indiana primary where he is pitted against George Wallace, the Governor of Alabama. Humphrey's participation in the primary will be hindered by the co-incidence of the Ohio Primary. 
Humphrey claims that "the primary may boil down to a contest between myself and the governor of Alabama and if that is the case I surely want to appeal to every Democrat that wishes to see this party of ours win in November, 1972, to unite behind my banner and I believe that if you do, we can go to the Miami Convention with a considerable degree of unity and support. We wilJ come out of that convention with a candidate that can carry on and win in November, 1972. That's my objective." 
Heports for the Indiana state committee c1aim that Wallace could poll upwards of 40 percent of the vote in the Indiana Primary, which Hum­phrey terms a battle between George Wallace and the regular Democrats. The Minnesota Senator asked for the aid of Muskie supporters in the state because he views the fight as one between Wallace and "the rest of us sho are pretty much on the same philosophical and political wavelength." 
The Democratic candidate stressed the great deal of difference that exists in political 
(continued on page 5) 




Baseball players, owners to 'play ball' Saturday 
by Joseph Dm·so; (c l 1972 New York Times 
New York, April 13-The first general strike in baseball history ended in its 13th day today when the players and owners agreed to start the season Saturday without making up any of the 86 missed ,games. 
The settlement was reached in Chicago, where the owners of the 24 major league teams gathered today. and in new York, where the player representatives had been meeting for three days. 
The original issue, an increase in the players' pensions. which are financed by television money-already had been solved by a com­promise raise of $500,00. The final issue-whether to pay the players for games rescheduled 
because  of  the  strike-was  breached  by  the  
bobtailed season.  
As  a  result,  some  teams  like  the  Houston  

Astros and San Diego Padres will play nine games less than a full season of 162, all teams will miss at least six games and divisional cham­pionships will be decided on a straight per­centage basis. They customarily are decided that way. but most clubs usually manage to complete full seasons despite bad weather by scheduling doubleheaders. 
F'or the 600 players, whose salaries will begin Saturday instead a of a week ago today, the cost wil be nine days' pay. For those at the minimum level of $13,500 . the loss will total $675; for those at the big-league average of $32.500, it will be $1.600 ; for Henry Aaron of the Atlantic Braves, who is bearing down on babe Ruth's home-run record at nearly $200,000 a season, just over $9,880. 
Despite the bitterness of the two-week strike, though. neither side made extravagant claims of victory after the settlement was announced at 4:15p.m. 
"Everybody recognizes that nobody won," said Donald Grant. Chairman of the Board of Directors of the New York Mets. 
"I think it's fair to say nobody ever wins in a strike situation," said Marvin Miller, the onetime steel-union economist who now directs the Plavers' Association. "This one is no ex­ception.· We're not going to claim even though our objectives were achieved." 
"I really feel good that it's over," said Joe Torre of the St. Louis Cardinals, the ranking hHter in Baseball last season, "but there will probaoly be some catcalls from the stands when \H' start to play ball." 
"It's inevitable that there will be hard l£>elings," said Bowie Kuhn, the Commissioner of baseball. "My job is to hold them to a minimum. Who won? Nobody." The players suffered. The clubs suffered. Baseball. suffered." 
Semors are reminded that today and tonight are the last times possible to vote for this year's Senior Fellow. Voting will be held in the Huddle from 11 am to 3 pm today, tonight at the St. Mary's Dining Hall during the evening meal tonight, and all night at the Senior Bar. All seniors are urged to vote. 

Nixon goes to Canada 
... see page 4 
'The Godfather:' 
Multo blood 
• • • review on page 7 
( 

Friday, April 14, 1972
the observer 

world briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
1\ew York--In an action considered CPrtain to influence the actions of other large institutional investors, Yale University's trustees decided to assume an activist role in connection with the University's stockholdings­-in effect endorsing the concept that institutions should speak out against antisocial actions by companies whose stock they own. 
Washington--In a vote regarded as a setback for the administration, the Senate voted 68 to 16 to limit the President's power to commit the nation to sustained hostilities without the consent of Congress. Despite administration opposition, the fourHepublicanleaders of the Senate voted for the bill. Passage of the legislation by the House was considered doubtful. 
\'\"ashington--Senior officials rn Washington disclosed that Amer~can warships were ordered secretly m late February to prevent Cuban vessels from seizing merchant ships of countries "friendly" to the United States. The disclosure seemed to be acutely embarrassing to the administration, especially since there were no reports that any countries had asked for such pmtection. 
Washington--The justice department confirmed that it would "shortly" file antitrust suits against the three major commercial television net­works and VIACOM International in an attempt to transfer control of network schedules, including programming, to advertising agencies and motion pictures producers and to prevent the networks from producing any programs or feature films. 
on campus today 
friday 

10:00 a.m.-5:00p.m. teach-in, environment, nd faculty and zpg, auditorium of galvin life science center. 
2:00 p.m. lecture, prof. zbigniew brzezinski, america: a 
coldly optimistic perspective, cce. 2 & 8:00 p.m. "jugler" poe~ry auditorium. 9:00p.m. dance, aia, beaux arts ball reading, juggler, , $.4 per  couple.  library  
saturday  
3. :30 p.m. lecture, sophomore newman, library aud.  l iterary  festival, charles  

8:30p.m. lecture, sophomore literary festival, jerzy kozinski, washington hall. 
8:30 p.m. concert, michael cooneywashington hall, $1.50 
sunday 

3:30 p.m. lecture sophomore literary festival, diane wakoske, libarry aud. 
6:00 p.m., flick, little murders,engineering auditorium. engineering auditorium 7:00p.m. elections, international students, fiesta lounge, Ia fortune. 8:30p.m. lecture, sophomore literary festival, robert coover, library aud. 
Faculty calls tenure quota guideline.not absolute rule 
By Don Ruane and Mike Baum 
The two-thirds tenure quota for each department is viewed more as a guideline rather than a rule, according to comments made by. chairmen of the philosophy and sociology-anthropology depart­ments this week. 
Philosophy, which is now ap­proximately 64 percent tenured, expects to have a position open for tenure due to a retirement in two years, just in time for the next faculty member to reach his six year mark, when tenure is usually considered. 
Sociology-anthropology (52 percent) currently has four un­tenured positions, and one faculty reaching the six year mark next vear. One member is close to retirement, but that is still some time off. The next retirement after that is not expected for at least 15 years. 
H.ev. Ernan McMullin, 
philosophy. views the quota as 
"more of a challenge than 
anything," ,::md "not a 
mathematical absolute, but an 
ideal." It is possible, in his view, to 
exceed the quota but only with 
good reason. 
1t is a challenge because it is the 
responsibility of a department 
chairman to avoid slipshod tenure 
practices which result in an im­
pacted department, and because it 
is a difficult human situation. 
"I see it as a difficult human 
situation. Selectivity is hard on 
people, but its not going to be that 
much different than before. There 
will be no sharp discontinuity with 
past practices," Fr. McMullin 
said. 
Sociologist William T. Liu 
appears to agree with this assessment, noting that rumors about the quota create insecurity among the new staff, which he feels is mostly "psychological scare." 
· J<:xplaining the evils of im­
pactment. Fr. McMullin added. "If 
a department ever reaches the 
point where you have to say to your 
young people 'We can't tenure you 
no matter how good you are' that 
department and that college have 
failed. This is what is happening at 
Yale ... If you think morale is bad 
here. you should spend a week at 
Yale." 
At Yale. according to Fr. 
1\lcMullin, some departments have 
had to close their tenure doors for 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box 
Q,  Notre  Dame,  Indiana  46556,  
second class postage paid.  Notrt!  
Dame, Ind. 46556.  

the next five years. "If you go five years without any younger people coming in, you stagnate. The problem is how to maintain a certain level of young people," he added. 
Prof. Liu thinks he may have an answer for that question in research. Conceiving research as the path to national reputation, Dr. Liu says you can also use un­tenured faculty in this area. 
Faculty involved in research, but without tenure, would remain at least as long as the project, possibly 10 to 20 years; and might even become members of the permanent faculty. He rejected the idea that such faculty would be second class citizens." and cited Johns Hopkins as an example of such a system. 
"I still think the quota system is good. it gives us some flexibility in ­bringing in new blood," Dr. Liu said. However, he emphasized that research may expand faculty within the quota. 
Unfortunately for Dr. Liu. the 
sociology department is faced with 
PROOF OF AGE 
REQUIRFD 
some limitations in light .of the overall faculty cutback within the College of Arts and Letters. There will be no eutback in the depart­ment, but some positions will go unfilled for a year or two. 
The philosophy department is following the same line. It had three persons on one year con­tracts. which terminated this year, and were not renewed or offered to 
others.  This  brings  the  depart­ 
ment  right  in  line  with  overall  
cutback arrangment.  

llllllllllllWIUimumlumlmulmumumlmi 
Nite Editor: Joe Abell Ass't Nite Editresses: Maria Gallagher, Marlene Zloza Layout: Don Ruane, Jim McDermott 
Headlines: Maria Gallagher and
Marty Miller Pix: Bob Hughes and Jim Hunt Typists: John Brady, Helen Smudski, Lucy Rodarte, Dan 
Rock, Barb Norcross Day Editors: Pete Fries and Tom Drape 
Day Typist: Pat Kenney 
He hit the Man for $3 million. 
.... ~J]-.,.,.,.;_ ~
-·ll·· 
..



I I .._• 
FromMCM .~ the company that·-------J g01ve you SffKrf OPEN 
TOMORROW 7:00 
OPEN 




5 Academy Awards!! 
Best Film Editing, Best Screen Play, 
Best Director, Best Actor,Best Picture 
Phone 288 8488 for times & directions 
-----___-__ -_-__-_-_-_-__-_-_-----------=-=-~==-----..!
------T




EL::rcn 
I 
.JCHn I 


Wednesday, May 3 at 8:00 in the ACC Tickets are $5.50, 4.50 and 2.75
Sales start 
FRIDAY AFTERNOON 
at 3:30 in the Fiesta Lounge 
And also at the ACC ticket office 
Remaining Jethro Toll tickets will also he on sale. 
(THE OB..fERVER.) 
'Force' may be used 

International News 
to prevent renewed Cuban harassment
Friday, April 14, 1972 Page 3 

Students take every opportunity to enjoy spring at Notre Dame --how long will it last? 
Kleindienst hopes"or c abl·n et pOSt ~embers of the ~ll.it_erate 
rabble

J. j 
en1oyed the fest1v1t1es at last weekend's lnaugral Ball. 
now in jeopard y 
by Robert Walters and Joy Aschenbach 
<C> 1972 Washington Star 

Washington, April 1:~ --For the first time since the Senate Judiciary Committee reopened public hearings on President Nixon's selection of Richard G. Klein­dienst to become At. .... rney General, the nomination appears to be in serious trouble. 
The previously favorable prospects for Senate confirmation have been seriously diminished by the likelihood of a bitter floor debate and the growing possibility of a full-scale filibuster by both Northern and Southern Democrats. 
"It's very clear that we're now talking about 67 votes on the floor instead of 51 votes," said one Senate source close to the growing controversy, referring to the two-thirds vote needed to halt a filibuster versus the simple majority necessary for confirmation. 
The status of the Kleindienst nomination has been transformed from virtually certain to very uncertain only within the last 48 hours. This is principally because of an issue only peripherally related to the central questions aired during the committee's six­week-long public inquiry into allegations of im­proprieties in the relationship between the Ad­ministration and International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation. 
That issue is "Executive Privilege" --the protective legal cloak drawn about members of the White House staff and Executive Branch toprevent them from being called to testify before congressional committees on questions pertaining to their confidential relationship with the President. 
The Nixon aide directly involved in the I.T .T. dispute is Peter M. Flanigan, formerly Nixon's principal liaison man to the country's business community and now the President's advise on International Econo­mic Affairs. 
(continued on page 4) 
by Benjamin Welles 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

Washington , April13--Senior officials disclosed here 
today that United States warships in the Caribbean 
have been ordered by President Nixon to prevent--by 
force if necessary --Cuban vessels from seizing the 
merchant vessels of countries "friendly" to the U.S. 
The new secret instructions, which were issued in 
late February, stem from the seizure by Cuban patrol 
boats in December of two merchantmen operating out 
of Miami under Panamanian registration. 
The Lyla Express, which was seized off the Cuban coast Dec. 5, and the Johnny Express, which was taken after an armed fight Dec. 15 nearly 100 miles away in the Bahamas, belong to the Bahama Lines of Miami Bahama Lines, which owns six freighters, belongs to four Babun Brothers, cuban refugees of Lebanese origin. 
The Cuban regime headed by Premier Fidel Casro has claimed that the two ships were involved in Central Intelligence Agency activities in Cuban waters. 
This was denied in Miami by Teofil Babun, one of the brothers, and by Robert J. McCloskey, State Depart­ment spokesman. McCloskey asserted in response to questions that the two vessels had been on " .. .innocent passage and in no way were connected to the U.S. Government." 
Disclosure of the Presidential orders to the Navy at this time appeared to be acutely embarassing to ad­ministration officials in view of the current meeting here of the General Assembly of the organization of American States. Delegations representing 23 member nations of the hemisphere organization are meeting here until April 21 discussing a wide variety of political, economic social, juridical and administrative matters. 
Yesterday Secretary of State William P. Rogers told the O.A.S. that Cuba's "continuing. Interventionist behavior, its support for revolution and its close military ties with the Soviet Union" still constituted a "threat" to the hemisphere. 
At the same time he pledged that "if changes in Cuba's policies and actions'' should justify lifting the 1964 O.A.S. sanctions against Cuba--the U.S. would act in concert with its fellow members of O.A.S. and, presumably, would not oppose such a step. 
Rep. Dante Fascell, D-Fla., chairman of the house foreign affairs subcommittee on Latin America, said that the Presidential order appeared to be a "reversal of the Nixon administration's low-profile policy." 
"We seem to be going back to the U.S. as the 'policeman of the world', concept," Fascell said. "I know of no pending request for such protection by and third countries. This policy should be discussed here with the foreign ministers of the O.A.S." 
Jerry W. Friedheim, a Pentagon spokesman, con­firmed that the Navy had been given "special authority " but declined to elucidate. He referred queries to the State department. 

the observer Friday, April 14, 1972 



Canadians hopeful of Nixon visit 
by Jay Walz and the United States are ex­
(c) 1972 New York Times periencing economic instability, involving inflation and unem­
Ottawa, April 13-President and ployment. For several months Mrs. Nixon arrived here tonight on negotiations to resolve a half dozen a state visit -the President's first outstanding trade differences have to Ottowa-from which will come, been stalemated. Canadians hope, a better un­The differences have been long derstanding of a new United simmering. However, they came States-Canada relationship. to a boiling point after Nixon an­
The 40 hour visit comes at a nounced his new economic policy sensitive time. Elections are due last Aug. 15. Canada, while in both countries. Both Canada demanding its economic in-
Colombo gunmen sought by police 
•


1n Gallo murder 
By Nicholas Gage <c). 1972 New York Times 
New York, April13 --Two men connected to the Mafia family reputedly headed by Joseph A. Colombo Sr. are being sought by police as suspects in the killing of Joseph Gallo, according to sources close to the in­vestigation. 
On~ of the men fits the description of Gallo's killer as given to police by eyewitnesses to the murder. The other is suspected of being the driver of the getaway car. 
The one being sought for the actual killing is listed in police files as a full member of the Colombo family but is identified as an associate in Justice Department reports. Both list the second man as an associate of the family but not a full member. 
The two men served as gunmen for Joseph Profaci, Colombo's predecessor as family leader, in his war against the Gallos a decade ago. In recent years the two men have been associated with a wing of the 
Colombo family led by Joseph Yacovelli. 
. Y~covelli was listed in 1969 by the Justice Department as the con­stghere <Counselor) of the Colombo family. After Colombo was shot last June, he reportedly served as acting head of the family for a time. 
The man being sought in connection with the actual killing was said to be in his early forties, stocky, about 5 feet 8 inches with thinning black hair. . 
On the morning of the Gallo killing, chief of detectives Albert Seedman, said the slayer was "a white male about five · foot eight, 40 to 45 years old, black hair. balding in front, wearing a light tweed coat." 
No description was then given of the man driving the getaway car. The man now being sought as the driver was said to be in his early forties, average in height and with a full head of dark hair. 
It is not known whether the police planned to arrest the two men or initially to only question them. Robert Daley, deputy commissioner, would not give any details on the status of the police investigation, but he said: 
"We have never been this far advanced in this length of time on any sort of mob killing before. This is partly because Seedman is a remarkable detective and partly because that imbecile who walked in on Gallo performed his feats in full view of so many people." 
Gallo was sitting at Umberto's clam house in the little Italy section early last Friday morning with a group of friends when the assasin walked in from a side door and began firing at the mobster with a .38 caliber pistol. 
With Gallo were his wife , his daughter, his sister, his bodyguard, Peter 
Diapoulas, who was wounded during the shooting, and Diapoulas' date. 
The assassin ran out the back door of the restaurant, chased by an 
unknown man who was in the rstaurant at the time, hopped into a waiting 
car and escaped. 

In addition to the Gallo party there were several other customers as well as employees in Umberto's at the time of the shooting. One man who was there and was later questioned by police was Mat­thew Ianniello, 51, who lives in Old Westbury, L.l.l Ianniello's two brothers, Oscar and Robert, were said to be the owners of Umberto's. Matthew Ianniello, who is known as Matty the Horse, is listed by the police as a member of the Mafia family of the late Vito Genovese. A federal grand jury in Brooklyn today indicted Janniello for allegedly fAlsifying his gross income on his 1965 income tax return. 
dependence of the U.S., com­plained when it was treated no less harshly than such aggressive trade competitors as Germany and Japan. 
The 10 per cent surtax on all imports to the U.S. has been lifted but, as Nixon confers tomorrow with Prime Minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau, these differences divide the two countries: 
-The U.S. is pressing Canada to agree to a revision of the 1965 Automobile tax that allows new cars to cross the border duty free. Specifically, the U.S. is demanding the removal of Canadian production safeguards that have contributed to Canada's favorable trade balance in automobile trade since 1968. 
-Nixon, urging increased im­ports from Canada of energy and natural resources, has long sought some over-all agreement with canada on raw materials. · But Canadians object to the package deal approach because, in their view, it would assume that the country's energy -oil, gas, coal, atomic energy, water -is a con­tinental resource. 
-To stem the tide of the U.S. 
investment in Canada, sometimes 
called the "American economic 
Astronauts set for Sunday launch 
<c) 1972 New York Times 

Cape Kennedy, Fla., April 13, The Apollo 16 astronauts were given a final briefing today on lunar geology in preparation for the scheduled launching of their mission to the moon on Sunday. 
Launching officials reported that the Saturn 5 rocket, the Apollo command ship and the lunar landing craft were all in good condition and that "no items in the system are giving us concern.'' 
The launching is scheduled for 
12:54 p.m. E.S.T. Sunday. The weather forecast for launching time is partly cloudy sixies and moderate winds. 
Capt. John W. Young and Lt. Comdr. Thomas K. Mattingly of the Navy and Lt. Col. Charles M. Duke Jr., of the Air Force had a two-hour briefing on lunar geology from space agency scientists. They also rehearsed some lunar orbit scientific tasks in the com­mand ·ship simulator. 
Tomorrow the final and most critical phase of the countdown is to begin with the loading of super­cooled oxygen and hydrogen into the spacecraft, a final inspection of the lunar module cabin and ac­tivation of the guidance and navigation system. 
If the mission is successful, Apollo 16 will be the nation's fifth manned landing on the moon and the first one in the lunar highlands. 


Kleindienst hopes dim 
:continued from page 3) 

Also drawn into the controversy is William E. Tl)omas, assistant to the President for Congressional ·elations, whom the committee wants to question in his role as Nixon's coordinator for the 1972 Republican National Convention. 
Both men have been mentioned repeatedly during 'he Judiciary committee's investigation. 
When Sen. Sam J. Ervin Jr., (0-N .C.,) yesterday sought committee approval of proposals for Senate subpoenas to be issued to both Flanigan and Timmons, the motions failed in a 6-6 deadlocked vote along party lines. A majority is required for approval of such motions. 
But Ervin has vowed to wage an unceasing fight, both in committee and on the Senate floor, to block consideration of the Kleindienst nomination unless Flanigan appears to testify --and Ervin appears to be picking up significant 
For example, Sen. Robert C. Byrd, (D-W.Va.) the Senate's assistant Democratic leader, noted yesterday that he. like Ervin, had previously supported the Kleindienst nomination, ''but in view of the things that have developed, I may vote against him." 
Kleindienst's nomination was approved unanimously by the committee earlier this year, but before it could be acted on by the full Senate the committee reopened its hearings to consider his role in the I.T.T. dispute. 
Added Byrd: "This whole thing creates a cloud of mistrust about the relationship belween the govern­ment and huge corporations. It's vital to know what Flanigan had to say to Ramsden. 
"Kleindienst is entitled to a verdict. My verdict might be greatly influenced by the part he played inthe Ramsden report. I would be influenced greatly by his (Flanigan's) refusal to testify." 
Byrd was referring to Richard Ramsden, a New York financial analyst and a protege of Flanigan who was recruited last year by tne White House aid to compile a report on the financial impact if I.T.T. were forced to divest itself on the Hartford Fire Insurance 
Co. 

That analysis was done for the Justice Department, and it was a major factor in convincing government attorneys to abandon prosecution of three antitrust suits seeking to force I.T.T. to divest itself of Hartford Fire and two other acquisitions. 
Prior to yesterday's voting, the Judiciary committee 
received a letter from John W. Dean III, counsel to the President, which said that because of a "Long­established and fundamental principal of our federal government, Flanigan cannot accept the committee's 
invitation to appear." 
invasion," the Trudeau govern­ment is planning to tighteu regulations of foreign corporations to make sure they serve Canadian "interests and aspirations." 
-Above all, Canadians are demanding some guarantee that the U.S. will not expect a perpetual trade surplus in its commercial dealings with Canada. Canada has had favorable trade balances since 1969. But Canadian experts argue that for 75 ;>revious years Canada had always bought more from the U.S. than it sold. 
Additionally, a rising Canadian nationalism is aggravated by recent difficulties with the U.S. that have prompted plans for a series of "Yankee Go Home" demonstrations during the Nixons' visit. The protests, promoted by Anti-American, Anti-Vietnam War and American War resister groups, have led to tight security measures. 
The new, self -reliant Canada that Trudeau will try to portray in his two-and-one-half-hour talk with the President Friday morning is a country that considers itself less a "partner" dependent on the U.S. than a friendly, self -respecting neighbor. 
BICYCLES BICYCLES
More than 100 
on Display 

BICYCLES
Middleweights

$51.95 to S410.00 
Lightweights Racing 
3 SPEED 5 SPEED 10 SPEE 

RALEIGH IMPORTED FUJI 
VISTA 
and RANGER OXFORD LIBERTY

DOMESTIC 
MURRAY 



BICYCLE CENTER 
1437 Portage Ave. South Bend Ph. 287-1~~ 


Seniors, this is your 


LAST CHANCE 
to learn about the 

Marist Brothers Lay Volunteers 
and rewarding works all over 
talk to an ND Graduate who will be teaching next year in Pago Pago, American Saltloa Tonight at 7:30 in Morrissey Lobby 
Friday, April 14, 1972 the observer 
Hu~nphrey evaluates pri~naries 
(continued from page 1) 
ideologies between Wallace and all the other Democratic candidates. 
"But I want to say this, if this Democratic Party wants to attract the attention of the American people to win in November it better make sure that Governor Wallace is not the victor in these races. It's one thing when you have 13 can­didates or 11 candidates, but when it gets down to two or three then we better make up our minds as Democrats about who we're going to be for." 
Humphrey noted the necessity for unity within the Party to battle Wallace and he particularly reached out to Muskie for his help in Indiana. The candidate characterized Wallace support primarily protest. but noted that the Alabama governor has a certain amount of showmanship. 
"He articulates many of the concerns that people have and doesn't burden himself with the solutions.'' 
When a reporter estimated Humphrey's delegate total at 23, the candidate returned, "Oh, we think we're doing much better than that in delegates. We have, hopefully. many delegates tucked away around the country in non-

primary states." 
Humphrey noted a recent survey that placed the top three con­tenders for the Democratic nomination within 75 delegates of each other. He placed an estimate of delegate strength at "a couple a hundred or more." 
Turning to the education question, Humphrey talked of his ideas of quality education. He feels that quality education requires top grade teachers, small classes, and equal funding of education. Busing, he said, is one of the tools 
that needs to be used for when a 
child is in a poor school and needs 
to go to a rich school. 
"The whole purpose of busing should be toward improving the whole educational experience. I also believe that integrated schools are better than segregated schools. And I believe that it is good for our children to learn to study together and learn together so that later in life they can learn to live together." 
The Senator also talked about the new VietNam offense and 
Ombudsman gives aid to '72 wornen's orientation 
The Ombudsman Service is coordinating the effort to organize a group to plan and assist with the Women's Orientation program next year. 
According to Paul Dziedzic, head 

of the Ombudsman Service, student government was ap­proached by Provost James Burtchaell and the coeducation committee, and asked to for­mulate an orientation program for next fall's women. 
Dziedzic emphasized that no 

Women's Political Caucus 
Sizemore talks at dinner 
Barbara Sizemore, educator from the University of Chicago and member of the Black Caucus, will be the featured speaker at the Indian Curry Dinner sponsored by the South Bend­Mishawaka Women's Political Caucus Friday, April14, at 6 p.m. in the First Unitarian Church, 101 E. 
N. Shore Dr. 
Dinner tickets, obtainable at the door, are $2.50 for adults and $1.25 for children. Tickets for Miss Sizemore's talk at 8 p.m. are $1.00 and will be sold at the door. The public is invited. 
Candidates for state and local offices will be introduced along 
with  the eight  women  from  the  
Caucus  who  recently  filed  for  
public office.  
Miss  Sizemore,  a  doctoral  

candidate in educational ad­ministration at the University of Chicago, has extensive experience as a teacher and school ad­ministrator with a special interest in sociology and urban affairs. 
She has served as consultant on several proJects, including the Ford Foundation Training and Placement Program, the Black Sisters Conference at the University of Dayton, the Diocese of Pittsburgh's Project Un­derstanding, and the Governor's Office of Human Resources, State of Illinois. 
In 1965, Miss Sizemore was awarded a Danforth Fellowship and in 1965-67 a Chicago Board Fellowship. She is the author of numerous articles, including "I Dig Your Thing, But It Ain't My Bag" published in the Fall, 1970 issue of the Notre Dame Journal of 

Education, which she co-authored 
with Kymara S. Chase. 
Last week, Miss Sizemore 

testified before the federal panel 
which is conducting hearings on 
the Chicago schools. 
Danforth award to ND grad student 
Mrs. Cordelia Ann Candelaria, a doctoral degree candidate at the University of Notre Dame, is the recipient of a Kent Fellowship awarded by the Danforth Foun­dation for "excellence in scholarship and unusual promise as a teacher.'' 
Mrs. Candelaria, a recent ap­pointee to the South Bend Human Helations Commission, is one of four graduate students at midwest universities and 41 in the nation to receive the prestigious award. Previously, two undergraduate students at Notre Dame were among 97 in the nation to receive Danforth Fellowships for ad­vanced study. 
The Fellowships provide financial support for a maximum of three years of graduate study and are designed to identify and en­courage graduate students who are preparing for teaching or ad­ministration. 
Mrs. Candelaria will receive her doctoral degree in American Literature at the May, 1972 commencement. A native of Aztec. N.M., she received her undergraduate degree at Fort 
Lewis College, Durango, Colo. 
IN PERSON! 
THE FABULOUS Tonight! 
MAGICIANS OF BASKETBALL
:... 

~ r ide~ y, Apr i I 14 8 : 00 p m At11IC'!ic ilnd Convociltion Center No ,111d SMC Discounts 
Ticket prices S.t.SO No discount S3 50 Purchase for S2.50 
S2 50 Purchase for Sl.SO 
Must present I 0 Card for discount at ACC 
leadership has been established to run the program, and that the Ombudsman would merely coordinate organizational efforts. 
Once the orientation committee i~ established, it will select its own leadership and formulate the orientation program. The com­mittee will need many workers and all persons, male and female, who want to get involved are welcome. Persons interested should contact the Ombudsman at 7638. 
Dziedzic expressed hope that the orientation program "will show women what Notre Dame is all about." By this he meant "not just physically show them around the campus, but offer them advice about what college and heing a woman at college is like." 
Dziedzic suggested that the women's program be integrated with the men's orientation, possibly including seminars and group discussions of problems. 
<:!aimed that it is a good test of Vietnamization. Nonetheless, he noted that th~ US is again deeply involved in the war. 
Humphrey stressed that the United States should withdraw their forces from Vietnam and he 

ISLI sessions set 
urged President Nixon to go to the 
Security  Council  of  the  United  
Nations and ask for  a  ceasefire.  
Humphrey  came  to  South  Bend  
after  afternoon  stops  in  

Washington D.C., Williamsport, Pennsylvania, and Cleveland. 
The International Student Leadership Institute <ISLI) of the University of Notre Dame has announced plans to sponsor four one-week training sessions during July for upperclassmen in the nation's high schools. Both men and women will attend the sessions opening on Sundays and closing the following Saturday. 
Inaugurated by Rev. Thomas Chambers, C.S.C., of Notre Dame in 196:3, the ISLI sponsors a national conference on the campus each year and weekend weekend con­ferences from Vancouver to Boston during the academic year. The 1972 summer session will be the first in-depth training program 
for junior and senior-to-bt: students Operating from an idea, "Leadership is not a destination, it is a journey,'' students will select summer session courses that in­clude "Role of Media in Leadership," "Psychology of Leadership,'' and ''Leadership and Education." Recent Institute sessions, in­cluding a trip by 15 Notre Dame students to Boston schools during the Easter vacation, have em­phasized the various group projects, tasks, and process exercises which are aimed at the 
development  of  personal  in­ 
volvement by the student in  the  
ideas and thoughts of others.  

Regional Environmental Teach-In April 15 Sessions from 10-5 Admission -Free Life Science Center 
"Hello, LibertyFoundry? The bellyou sent us ;Ust cracked." 
More and more companies are publishing long distance 
telephone numbers for customers to report manufacturing 
defects. They know it's the easiest way to iron out problems. 
More economical, too. For example, you can call Philadelphia, 
Pa. for less than $1.00 when you dial direct after 5:00p.m. 
Next time you want faster action on any problem, get it the 
easy, economical way. Dial direct. 
--~ ---­

, 
.. 
, 
1 
1 
1 
~ 

1 
j 
, ~ 
1 
,
,
,
,
, 
~ 
~ 
j 


the observer Friday~ April 14_, 1972 
Collecte seeks Viet damage repair 
and various university professors operating costs of the organization technological 'advancement' and political gesture." 
by Marlene Zloza from the U.S. and Canada. are being covered by the par­silence. We are asking you to aid COLLECTE VIETNAM has 

Anew organization, COLLECTE The Executive Committee is ticipating members in Montreal. us in making an effective asked the National Student VIETNAM, is concentrating on the composed of concerned According to Michael Hendricks statement against this continuing Association to help by organizing consolidation and distribution of Quebecois , American refugees of the American Refugee Service, insanity." fund drives on the campuses. The private contributions directly to and Vietnamese patriots. "the war continues to be as Hendricks stressed that each group has not announced any plans the Vietnamese people. One member of the Executive, destructive and terrible as ever dollar is needed to assure that this to merge their operations with 
Based in Montreal, the group Jean de Tilly, J .S., contends, but it is being hidden in will not be "another empty other peace or fund raising groups. guarantees that every dollar they "People want to help end this collect will be forwarded by In­horror and would be prepared to ternational Money Order directly make regular donations. to Madame Nguyen Thi Binh, the However, confidence is sometimes 


'King for a day' contest
Minister of Foreign Affairs of the lacking that hard earned dollars 
Provisional Revolutionary will reach the given distination, 
Government of South Vietnam, at and contributions are reluctantly 
Committee for Redundancy

SBP R. Calhoun Kersten an­oligarchy at work. and an un­
her personal address in Paris. withheld." COLLECTE VIETNAM is All funds sent to COLLECTE nounced plans to institute a "King paralleled opportunity to see the Committee. Kersten further 
for a Day" contest which will system of checks and unbalanced stated that since the recentsponsored by numerous people VIETNAM will be used to repair 
books." eruption of the Gallo-Colombowho have over the past years the damage done to the people and extend for the rest of the year. The gang wars, security precautionsestablished a genuine reputation in countryside of Vietnam, said de contest is open to Notre Dame -St. In order to enter, all the ap­plicant need do is submit his name · have been tightened by the "Notre 
the world community as workers Tilly. Mary's students and all paperboys and 5 cents to the student govern­Dame family." This fact, plus hisfor peace in Indochina. The list A bank account has been opened in the South Bend area as well. 
ment office. One name will be reported immortality, allowedincludes the American Committee in the name of COLLECTE Calling the system "an im­drawn every morning starting this Kersten to assure the rabble thatfor Solidarity with the Vietnamese VIETNAM with the La Caisse portant part of every student's coming Monday. The winner will they could rest at ease.
People; Sheila Daar, Editor, Populaire de Syndicate Nationaux education," Kersten urged all 
,. -------------· 

students to participate in "a be allowed to wear the crown for 5 Ramparts Magazine; Paul M. de Montreal at 1001 St. Denis 
Sweezy, Editor, Monthly Review Street, Montreal, Canada. All chance to get a first-hand view of minutes, sit in a plush office chair, feed UnCandidate, clean out her 
VOLUNTEERS 

sandbox, talk to one token ad­'Microcourses' to be offered ministrator, ·and make one im­
(FRONTIER APOSTULATE) needs teachers, tradesmen, office

portant decision. Winners will be 
nnd kitchen help, nurses. One

notified by Uncle Nino, Vito, or 
thousand have shared since 1956. Long hours. hard work, no pay.

Angelo, and will be escorted by one
Innovation marks summer ND 
(Room nnd board pius $25 month. l

of them to the office. 
Accept. challenge of missionary

The intensive seven-week with such topics as poverty, education in South Bend Kersten hopes that students 
diocese: Bring faith and love; find hope. fulfillment. Write today. Bishop Fergus O'Grady, 

Summer Session at Notre Dame capitalism, medical care or schools, will direct the class which would not take this as a joke, but 
has come in for further ab­pollution, or classes in such areas will include instruction in building rather vie'-. it as "a unique 
O.M.I. 778 College Road, Prince

breviation with the introduction of as "U.S. Balance of Payments a $2 microscope -"capable of learning experience." He added 
George, B.C., Canada 

several "microcourses" worth one Problem" or "Planning, In­performing like a $60 one." that repeat winners would be hour of credit for two weeks of stitution and the City." The Another group of students using guaranteed positions on the 
classes. regular standbys of "Principles of shovels will be an anthropology 
Departments of history, Economics" and "Statistical In­class engaged in excavating at the philosophy of science and ference" will also be offered to the site of a 17th century fort near 
economics are adding the in­seven-week students. Niles, Michigan. James Bellis, novative short courses on par­History and philosophy of assistant professor of sociology ticular subjects to broaden the science offer such one-credit and anthropology, will use skills curriculum available to the courses as "Age of the Atom," acquired in two years of African summer students. Scholars may "Astronomy and Cosmology Since searches for ancient civilizations 
opt for the two allowable seven­Newton," and "Earth and Life and more recent diggings at the 
week courses worth up to three Science" courses limited to a site of the early French fort on the hours of credit each, up to six or particular century. Full seven­Tippecanoe River, to uncover the eight of the two-week courses, or a week students may select the original Fort St. Joseph that was 
combination of both. "History of Modern Physical occupied by the French, Spanish, 
The advantages to a teacher Science" or "History of Modern English and Americans at one time working on a graduate degree Earth and Life Science" courses. or another. might be the specialization on such Hand shovels and buckets may Contrasted to the intensive two­courses as "Napoleon," "Adolph replace books under the arms of week courses worth one hour of Hitler," or "China and Japan Since one group of biology students academic credit are the "super­1945," instead of a seven-week enrolled in a "mini-course" on the condensed" workshops planned by course on "European History." By use oflivingmaterials in the the College of Business Ad­moving from one two-week session classroom. Students in this class, ministration where students will to another he may acquire mainly elementary teachers in spend up to seven hours daily in the the particular knowledge he area schools, will spend a good classroom for one week and desires without devoting the entire part of their time in the woods or receive two hours of credit. summer session to an all-inclusive on the waters of Notre Dame lakes Gaining popularity each sum­subject. discovering and identifying living mer are courses in American 
Economics students may take creatures. Dr. John V.Davis, minorities and English for in­from one to eight courses dealing coordinator of science and health ternational students planning to 
enroll at Notre Dame or other 
American universities, according 
to Rev. Robert J. Austgen, C.S.C..
Education task force 
Last Grasp Presents 

THE WRONG BOX 
Sellers-Caine­Gay Old Ti~nes Carroll Hall 3 : 30, 7, 9 
75c or subscription 

Now ROMA presenting the incredible 

"FIFTH AMENDMENT" 
Weds., Fri., Sat., for your dancing pleasure don't miss them! Large T-Bone only $2.95 deliveries phone 234-3258 gay hours from 4-7 daily-all drinks40" 


named by Hesburgh 
A major study of continuing education in the United States has entered its second phase with the appointment of four task force study groups to examine key areas. 
The task forces, which grew out of a national conference on con­tinuing education sponsored by the Kellogg Foundation at the University of Notre Dame last year. were announced by Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame and chairman of the study's steering committee. 
Indiana Third District Congressman John Brademas heads the task force on continuing education and public affairs. Dr. Howard R. Neville, executive vice president for administration at the University of Nebraska, chairs the task force on continuing education and the university. The task force on continuing education and social responsibility is headed by Dr. Elias Blake. Jr.. president of the Institute for Services to Education in Washington, D.C., and Dr. Alexander M. Schmidt. dean of the University of Illinois School of l\ledicine in Chicago, is chairman of the study panel on new knowledge and the professions. 
I 
The task forces are charged with analyzing the role of continuing education in their areas and 
L 
coming up with specific recom­mendations. In a statement summarizing 
reasons for the study, Father Hesburgh noted that "while continuing education has expanded at geometric proportions over the last 20 years, it has not yet begun to reach the universal level of par­ticipation needed of all citizens. We consistently structure programs for the people who need continuing education the least. VVhere are the programs needed 
for the new students -the mature citizen. the poor, women, minority group members, the migrant laborer. the prisoner, the high school graduate not interested in a four-year degree? 
"We have also been preoccupied with programs focused upon highly specialized vocational and professional interests at the ex­pense of offerings in the arts, humanities and cultural affairs. And we have failed to use the technology at hand to reach out and touch the vast number of people who could be served. We remain committed to the traditional academic pattern, f:'xpecting all to come to the citadel." 
Following a final report containing the findings and recommendations of the task forces. a conference to implement proposals will be held· at !'lotre Dame·s Center tor Continuing Education. 
The study is being coordinated by Dean Bergin of Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education. 
Ll:l: 
MABVI:Nas MONTI: W.ALSB 
MONTE WALSH  Sat. April 15  
ALL OFASUDDEN THE WEST  
WASN'T WILD ENOUGH FOR HIM.  
Knights of Columbus  



Showing 2, 7, 9:15, 11:30 

----------~ 

Friday, April 14, 1972 
7
the observer 

nHIHUIUIIJIIUIIIIUIJ llUlllllllllllIIIIUIIIIIUUllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll LUUllUII.llliJliUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllflflll IllIIIII 
A Review -of: The Godfather 
And The Blood Flo\AIS Free 

~11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
CAC's Performing Arts Series presents 
He looked like a man who got the short end of a head-on collision with a bulldozer. His nose was flattened and his cheeks bulged as if stuffed with cotton. The face was old, weary, and pockmarked with eyes that were dark and sunken. The gray hair was sparse and balding and a skinny gray moustache crossed his lip. 
The audience noticeably gasped when three minutes into the movie, you realized that this was The Godfather. He spoke out of the side of his mouth with a wheeze. The voice was slow and marked with age. He sat at his desk with a red rose on his lapel and gently stroking the cat that had settled in his lap. 
The famous face that had highlighted the screen in "On the Waterfront" and "Viva Zapata" was largely unrecognizable. It was Brando as no one had ever seen him before. 
Brando played the Godfather--Don Vito 
Corleone--with the air of a clock winding 
down. Corleone had built his empire to 
greatest and then watched as t~e world a~d 
people around him slowly tore It down. ~Is 
mind had slowed and he was approachmg 
senility.

Brando gives a tremendous sensitivity to 
a role that might have been ruined by a hard 
guy approach. He played the role as a 
benevolent grandfather and a concerned 
godfather. He shines the bright~st n~ar. the 
end of the movie when he plays with his little 
grandson. He is no longer the feared Don, 
but he is the loving and playful grandpa. 
But despite Brando's sensitive approach 
to the character, the movie is a frightening 
and chilling look at the underworld. The 
violence is shocking and incredible. The 
corpses pile up throughout the movie, all of 
the killings being graphic gangland 
executions. The blood flows free. 

It seems that the violence fails to bother 
people however as The Godfather looks to 
become one of the greatest selling pictures 
of the day. A local theatre report~ retu~s _ 
of $66,000 in the first week of showmg. And 1t 1 
is this rush of people that makes the 
audience more disturbing than the pict11re. 
Michael Corleone, the Don's son, sets out 
to revenge his father's near-death and he 
brutally murders two men while eating 
dinner. The shootings are violence, bloody, 
and incredibly graphic and the audience 
responded with applause and cheers. To say 
that the people were more shocking than the 
movie is perhaps having a tremendous 
sense of the obvious. 
Three of the other actors in the film--Al 
Pacino, James Caan, and Richard 
Castellano--further the violent end of this 
movie. AI Pacino is Michael Corleone, the 
new Godfather. Pacino is very good in his 
portrayal of Michael, the college boy, and 
war hero who didn't want to become in­
volved in his father's business. Yet, despite 
his early protestations, Michael moves in 
behind his father. He, too, becomes a 
violent murderer. Michael is important 
because his portrayal seems to indicate 
something about the underworld. You just 
can't escape it. Throughout Michael em­
phasizes that he doesn't want his children 
involved just as he didn't want to become 
involved. You realize that no matter what 
he says, his children are sentenced to follow 
in the world that he has created. Michael is 
the precursor of the violence that his 
children must endure just as Don Corleone 
was the precursor of Michael's violence. 
James Caan as Sonny Corleone also falls 
into this trap. Sonny is Michael's older 
brother. He has a violent temper and is 
likewise a violent murderer. It seems 
perhaps fitting that Sonny who lives the 
most violent life of the Corleone's also dies 
the most violent death. Sonny is the center 
of violence within the picture ... he lives, 
loves, talks, and dies violently. 
Caan 's portrayal of Sonny could boost him 
into the limelight. He is ruggedly hand­
some, with a dark, striking face and a large, 
muscular build. What Caan lacks as an 
actor is more than made up· by his ap­
pearance. 

It is Richard Castellano, however, that 
Jerry Lutku~ 

plays the only role that rivals Brando. Castellano. known most for his fatman roles including a feature spot in "Lovers and Other Strangers", plays Peter Clemenza, the caporegime of the Corleone Family. Clemenza is the most tested killer of the Family. He is violent and his violence seems offensive to his nature. He is large, jovial, and friendly, but he kills more and often more violently than any other Cor leone. 
Castellano's role is more frightening and chilling than any other part in the movie. The others kill within the context of their characters. Sonny has a temper and kills when he is mad. Michael becomes a violent man with the development of his character. Luca Brasi is a paid killer. But in all of these roles the violence is part of the character. It has developed in the person until it is a major portion of the character. Yet, it is different with Clemenza. The violence in him can be turned on and then turned off. Clemenza laughingly brews up a batch of spaghetti for the Family and then in the next instant he puts a garrott around the neck of a man and draws the last breath out of the man's lungs. He is a killer that can be turned on, used, and then turned off again. 
It is portraits of men like Clemenza that make "The Godfather" such a frightening movie because for all we know Clemenza is your fat, happy uncle or the friendly man next door. 
For all its violence and all of its terror, "The Godfather" is not a bad movie if you like this form of filmmaking. For me, however, it was not entertainment, though sparked by fine performances from Brando and Castellano. Perhaps "The Godfather" struck too near the terror that exists within me, the terror that people are not as good as I hope they may be. And when I leave a theatre of people applauding a violent and graphic murder, I find that terror becoming more and more horrible. No longer is it just on the fantasy screen of films, but the terror has spread to the people that surround me. 
the observer Friday, April 14, 1972 
----·----· 

-·---------.... 

JIM HIBSCHMAN PONTIAC 
Observer insight 

Student protests continue 
JOl Lincolnwav E. Mishawaka 75~ ... 771 

By Don Ruane The suit alleges that the system 
Observer·s of student discriminates against students by movements; left, right and up the charging extra with each violation. middle across the United States As MSU attorney Kenneth Smith have heralded their decline since has said the system itself is not the days of the Cambodian in-discriminatroy, but charging vasion. but the strikes and studentsmorethanothersisanact protests. with their direction of illegal discrimination. turned in towards the institutions "This should be an interesting where they are born, continue · case. " Smith said after the suit today. was filed, "We are exposed to all 
There are still a few groups who kinds of discrimination against pickett the local industry with the students. It would be good if we Defense Department contract, but won this one." targets now include minority -A leader of the Black Coalition rights. tuition hikes Council said last Sunday that he discrimination against students planned to file a formal complaint and student repersentation 0~ with the Office of Equal Op­trustee boards. portunity Programs against the 
Michigan State. perhaps, is the MSU Department of Public Safety best example of the wide variety of charging police harassment of protest types in the midwest. black students. Among the activities at East The leader, Sam Riddle of Flint, Lansing are: said his arrest last week, following 
-A delayed law suit filed by the an incident with police after he was Association of Students against stopped for a minor traffic offense, MSU. which is pending the out-was only one of many incidents of come of negotiations with the All police harassment against blacks. University Traffic Committee "When you're in the business of c.oncerning the graduated parking heighte~ing contra~ctions ~ese fme system. Negotiations are guys w1ll deal With you m a slated for April 21. political manner," Riddle said. He 
Under the system, the fine for a added, "It's going to look quite student's first violation is two personal, but it's not. I'm in­dollars, but is increased for each terested in dealing with the in­violation thereafter until the end of stitution." the term. The system begins again Riddle said he has received each term. All non-student fines several complaints about are two dollars. harassment from other black 
students. and added that he will 
meet with other black student
Accountancy dept. leaders and document the 
Presents awards 
Four juniors in the Accountancy Department of the Notre Dame's College of Business Administration received achievement awards at the .annual departmen~ dinner on April 13. The presentations were 
made by Ray M. Powell, ac­countancy chairman.. Eugene J. Bastedo, Smithtown, 
N.Y. received the Dow Che~ical cash. pr~ze of ~500 for achievement m mdu~tr1~l ac­cou~tancy. He has ~a~tame~ a s_tratght A average m his maJor field and a 3.7 average out of a possible 4.0 in all subjects. Bastedo serves as a sports an­nou~cer f_or WSND, the student radio ~~tion at Notre Dame. 
Recipient of the Ernst and Ernst cas~ awar~ of $500 for achievement m '!-ccountancy was_Jerry D. F1tzge~ald, Idaho Sprmgs, Colo.. Marrted an~ the father of one c~tld, he has achieved a 3..8 cumulative average. 
~ second Ernst and Ernst cash pr~ze of $500 was, awarded to Clifford. W. Losh, ~ alls Church, Va. fo~ achievement m accountancy. Wtth an average of :J.9. he. is in the top I per cent of the 'Jumor class. 
R. Davin Bergonia, Spring Valley. Ill. received the $250 
I.B. ~cGladrey award for academic excellence. Bergonia has ha~. 79 h?urs,of. "A" an? one hour of A-mmus smce commg to Notre Dame. 
harassment. Riddle was arrested in January 1971 for assaulting an MSU policeman at a concert. 
In Jeopardy 

-Several students are getting right into the thick of things by seeking offices. in which if they don •t succeed. they could become the targets of protest. 
Donna O'Donnohue. 23. a former student leader now turned graduate student. is seeking a nomination for election to MSU's board of trustees. If elected she will be the youngest person to sit on such a board in Michigan. Her platform is based on improving higher education opportunities for the ethnic educational and economically oppressed. 
Two students. Jerry DeGrieck and Nancy Weschler, both 22, won seats in the recent Ann Arbor City Council elections. Running on the newly formed Human Rights Party Ticket. they secured strong leverage on the council by preventing either the Democrats or the Republicans from achieving a majority on the council. 
MSU is not the only current 
protest center. Duquesne students 
were up in arms last month when 
tuition and fees were raised $240 
for !972-73. A poll taken two weeks 
before the announcement when 
speculation was ab~ndant 
revealed that when the results of 
t.:ms responses were projected to 
include the entire s 292 member 
student body, 67 per~ent would be 
willing to strike if the raise was 
inevitable. 

Cut Class At Harvard, teaching fellows and graduate students took a day 



TONITE

off from class March 28 to protest graduate tuition increases and a 
People and Song

cutback in teaching fellow scholarships. Tuition rose $200 to 
Cindy Corsaro Tex Petray
about $3,000, and the teaching fellow scholarships have been 

Butch Ward
stopped and allocated to various departments for their use. The 
Randy Sartan and Dan Koehler 
strike was virtually 100 percent effective, and was supported, in 
Coffeehouse Alumni Hall Lounge 
part, by some undergraduates who 
9-2 am Refreshments 

also cut classes. 
Everyone Welcome 25c
PIRG groups are rapidly 

==:...~=-=============:::::=======::::::=:~====-1
becoming the most popular channel for students to hit the 


Main Church
more unfair practices of the establishment. In addition to the formation of INPIRG, othH 

Sunday Masses 
groups are organizing in Penn­sylvania. New Jersey, Michigan, and Minnesota. 
5:15p.m. Sat. Fr. Bob Griffin, C.S.C. 
In Michigan, the PIRG group at 
9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. Tom McNally, C.S.C.
the University of Michigan has 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Aidan Kavanagh, O.S.B.
already wet its feet by providing weekly lists of grocery prices in 
12: 15 p.m. Sun. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 
nearby markets. The project is being done in cooperation with 
Vespers: 4:30 p.m. -Our Lady's Chapel

members of an economics course. ~--·-------· -· -------· ____.:..:.·..=-=-===-======================,......::_; 









JETHROTULL 
with Wild Turkey 
THIS TUESDAY, APRIL 18 at 8 pm TICKETS: $5.50, 4.50, 2.75 
SOME GOOD SEATS STILL AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
(11 : 25 -12 :15, 4 : 00-5 : 00 and the ACC 
Presented by the Student Union Social Commission 



NEW AD DEADLINE 
All ads must be in by 1:00 the day before publication 
New office hours 1 O:am -S:pm M-T lO:am -2:30 pm Friday 
. 

Friday, April 14, 1972 the observer 
9 

The South Bend Police Depart­a Notre Dame student. Potts first "somewhere near the Senior Bar" Chevrolets. The car recovered 
ment and Notre Dam(' security reported the vehicle missing from at approximately 3:00 a.m. y\.!sterday had been previousl:· 
combined forces yesterday in the student parking lot E-2 on Tuesday Monday morning. That was the vandalized in a student parking lot
City police recover successful recovery of a stolen car. Pvening at 10:00 p.m. After a last time the car was seen on March 19. 
The vehicle, a 1962 beige fruitless search of the campus for The theft is the !atest in a series Security Chief Pears cautioned Chevrolet, was found yesterday the car, Notre Dame Security of acts of vandalism to cars in against viewing such incidents asstolen student car morning at 8:00 a.m. on South Chief Arthur Pears referred the campus parking lots. Within the an "increasing wave of van­Rend's west side by a city patrol case to the South Bend Police past month, three cars have been dalism." He reported that only car on routine duty. Damage to the Department. broken into or otherwise five cars have been actually 
car is reported to be negligible. Potts had reportedly loaned the noticeably damaged. All cars "stolen" from student parking lots By Dean Mayors The car is owned by Greg Potts, car to a friend, who parked the car involved were 1962 or 1963 since September 1971 


Dennis Dugan (left) chairman of the Economics Department and George Brinkley (right) chairman of the Government Department will both serve as discussion leaders during this weekend's faculty sym­posium.
Faculty symposium·stresses changes in American culture 
A noted authority on Communist Optimistic Perspective." 
Economics Department, will serveaffairs, Professor Zbigniew Br­He has served on the policy as chairman of the meeting on 


zezinski of Columbia University, planning council of the Depart­will speak at a faculty symposium ment of State, as a member of the on changes in America, "Old Council on Foreign Relations, as a Culture or New?" ··April 14-15. trustee of Amnesty International, The program in the Center for and of the editorial board of Continuing Education is sponsored Foreign Policy magazine. Recent by the Institute for International books of his include "Between Two Studies, the American Studies Ages: America's Role in the Program, and the Student Technetronic Era" and "Dilemnas Academic Commission and is open of Change in Soviet Politics." to the public. Opening session of the sym­
Brzezinski is Herbert Lehman posium at 9:30 am April 14 will Professor of Government and feature talks by the following director of the Research Institute Notre Dame faculty: John Roos, on Communist Affairs at Columbia government; Dr. Kenneth and the author of a periodic Jameson, economics; Dr. Richard column in Newsweek magazine. Lamana, sociology; and Dr. The topic of his talk at 2 pm April Joseph Scott, black studies. 14 will be "America: A Coldly Dennis Dugan, chairman of the 
Removes pressure 

Ne'W studysyste1ndevised 
A unique exam-tutorial system must pass an exam for each before devised by an associate professor progressing to the next. An in­at Cornell University is said to novation of the system is an exam have increased the mastery of room where the tests may be taken introductory calculus achieved by when a student feels ready. It is his students. staffed with tutors 14 hours a week. 
David W. Henderson, who Exams are marked immediately conceived of the system last spring by the tutors, who discuss the because he has an aversion to the mistakes with, and make standard lecture-exam system, suggestions to the student. which tends to be impersonal, Designed to make exams part of allows his students to take an exam the learning system, a mark of 80 several times, if necessary, tQ is needed to pass, but 90 has been pass. the average. The student must 
According to Henderson, this also show an understanding of removes the pressure "because each question. they knew that if they goofed, Henderson is pleased with the thev'd have another chance ... and results but says he will continue as aresult most of them did well trying to improve his teaching the first time." methods, "I'm not planning to stop 
The course is divided into here. I don't think this is the op­several sections, and students timum." 
ND gets $3~000 ALCOA grant 

A $3,000 grant supporting three undergraduate scholarships in journalism and mechanical or electrical engineering for 1972-73 at the llniversity of Notre Dame has been awarded by the ALCOA Foundation. Pittsburgh, Pa. 
The grant was presented 1\londay by Richard N. McCan­dless. South Bend sales manager for the Aluminum Company of America. to James E. 'lurphy, the University's assistant vice president for public relations and development. 
In accepting the grant. l\lurphy noted that ALCOA is one of the nation's leading corporate con­tributors to higher education with grants totaling $1,850,000 in 1970 or 
87 per cent of its net income before taxes. The aluminum manufac­turer has been a benefactor of Notre Dame since 1960. 
liNt~lN-MIIt~IY I 

COME SEE METRO AND ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL PURCHASE PLAN FOR COLLEGE GRADUATES 
-$--MET~}J•.!, 
~------­
----·-----. 

"Politics, Economics and Social Organization." Discussants will include Dr. M. A. Fitzsimons, professor of history, and John Barkett, former student body president. 
A session on "Philosophy, Science and Technology" begin­ning at 4 pm April 14 will feature talks by Dr. Cornelius Delaney, philosophy; Dr. Julian Pleasants, microbiology; Dr. Thomas Musial, collegiate seminar; Dr. Michael Crowe, general program; and Dr. William Davisson, economics. Brian Walsh, director of the computing center, will serve as chairman, and discussants will include Dr. John Lyon of the general program and Frank Healy of the Student Academic Com­mission. 
Morning sessions on Aprill5 will deal with religion and will include papers by Dr. Philip Gleason, history; Dr. Thomas Werge, English; and Dr. Stanley Hauerwas, theology. Prof. George Brinkley, chairman of the Government Department, will serve as chairman, and d discussants will include Rev. Maurice Amen of the Non-Violence Program and Steve Flavin of the Student Academic Commission. 
The final session at 2 pm April 15, "Arts and Media," will feature papers by Prof. Thomas Stritch; communication arts; Dr. Donald Costello, English; Dr. Thomas J<'ern, art; and Dr. Ronald Weber, chairman of American Studies. Dr. James Robinson, chairman of the English Department, will serve as chairman and discussants will include John Hurley of the C'ultureal Arts Commission, and Dr. Fred Syburg, speech and drama. 
associate professor of aerospace and mechanical engineerings, and 
S. Riepenhoff, a paper stressing the importance of data collection. 
--"Statistical Analysis of Type of Counsel and Plea Bargaining to Criminal Court Systems," by Drs. Raymond Brach and David Sharpe, associate and assistant professors of aerospace and mechanical engineering . The paper describes various simulation to urban, economic, transportation and medical problems, and is sponsored by the University of Pittsburgh. 
Who will be the famous celebrity called live by Bill Eiler and Jim 
E. Brogan on WSND's Double Midnight Comedy Hour? Tune in Saturday 12 pm to 2 am and find out. Also -funny phone calls, puns, prizes, comedy cuts, jokes, and novelty music! 
I . ----------------------2 



CJeu£g 
Sapp!tire 
18k.!/ewefrg 
call us ... 
:JJiamonJ !Import CompanN 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS 
Seen by Appointment Suite 602 St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Phone 287-1427 
•





umn1 Club 


"I -Didn't -Get -In Night" 
SATURDAY: 
Chapped Lips Play 9:00-1:00 10c Beer 7:00-9:00 

1 Free drink for every 2 Rejection letters 
-
~ -~------~----­

~~;:~>~----~--------------------------------------------------------------­
10 the observer Friday, April 14, 1972 
Cire us Maxim us 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111mtutmmllmumulllllllllllllllmnnmlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllmlmmlmntmulmuuuml 
• 

\ \ Humphrey lD South Bend 
uumlmnmuumumllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllmtmmummmmrnumtmumlllJuumHimltlmlllllluuHmllmntmllllnllllllllllllllllllll!llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllmmmtm Ed E11is
~ 
\ 
\ Hubert H. Humphrey is a "regular Democrat" 1 and thinks that the "regular Democratic"
\ 
organization still has enough strength in the
\ 
country to win the Democratic presidential nomination for him in Miami. 
\ 
This, at least, was the substance of "political" \ I side of the Minnesota Senator's downtown press 
' 
conference yesterday. Humphrey unhesitatingly called himself the frontrunner, in a direct
~ 
~ 
challenge to South Dakota Senator George McGovern's claims to the same position, as the campaign moves into a crucial six-week period. 
\ i When one reporter quoted Humphrey as having 25 delegates to the 90 controlled by~ McGovern and Maine Senator Edmund Muskie, the 1968 Democratic nominee smiled like a poker
~ 
\ \ 
player who had been raised $100 when he was holding four aces.
l 
"Well. we think we're doing much better than
i 
that."

I 
After. a moment's pause, he continued, "We have. hopefully, many delegates tucked away around the country in the non-primary states." 
1 .....__________ 
----~---­

\ 
\ 
<l 
\ 
\ 
\ 
\ 
~ 
\ 
' 
\ \ 
) 

He then quoted a survey that indicated his delegate strength as "a couple hundred or more." 
An Appeal in Indiana 
Senator Humphrey made an interesting appeal to Indiana Democrats. It's well known that the fight in this state on May 2 will be between Humphrey, the representative of the party's "regular, progressive," wing, and Alabama Governor George C. Wallace, who carries the banner of the right '\'ing. Except for his characterization of \1 ...<!1'-''-t: as a showman who plays on people's protests but "doesn't burden himself with the solutions," Humphrey told the party not to vote for him so the party could win in November. implying that only HHH could win if nominated. 
The Minnesota Senator appealed to Muskie supporters to back him in Indiana, since Muskie is not entered. He noted affinities between himself and Muskie, and called for a coalition of "regular Democrats" to beat Wallace. 
Pt>tmsylvania: "Balance Point" 
Humphrey noted that most convention delegates will be chosen within the next six weeks. Pennsylvania, he noted, was at the "balance point" of the series of 26 primaries. Humphrey is lined up against the former fron­trunner. Edmund Muskie of Maine in that primary, and early indications are th~t he will win. This would be important because it would almost certainly end Muskie's bid for the nomina~ion, and would leave Humphrey as the 
sole rest dent of the middle of the party. 
Strategy 
In short, Humphrey expects to beat Muskie in Pen~sylvania, draw considerable support, in­cl~dmg. perhaps Muskie's, in the remaining pnmanes, and let his political associates in the "~Jon-primary s.tate~" pick up enough to carry h1m t? the nommation. In Indiana he hopes for 1\luskte support and he will play on the idea that Wallace cannot win, regardless of his stance on issues. 

Bite into Spafiada. juicy! ­
One nip and you·11 know why we call it juicy. Spanada is mellow red wine drencned with the flavor of juicy oranges. lemons and limes_ Chilled. Over ice. Over and over again Drink Gallo Spanada. Juicy 

',JIIftllllli!grapn'v'n' ' 
· ' • .t ,!lh, ndtural fru1t flavors 
Gallo v mPyards Modest• '· Cal1torn1a 

,. 
:_, 


• 

Friday, April 14, 1972 the observer 1 1 
Irish squads invade Ohio 

,~-------------------------------------------------. 
sports parachuting -skydiving 


For those of you who missed · the first ND-SMC Parachute classes 
Hurrah! We are now starting our third set of classes. For more information phone S.B. 291-6565 
losing its home opener to Nor­thwestern 96-on Tuesday travels to Athens, Ohio, for a Friday­Saturday series with 19th-ranked Ohio University, tbe defending Mid-American Conference champions. 
Notre Dame's track team, snowed out of a home meet last Saturday with Army, visits Miami (().>at Oxford Saturday afternoon. The Irish captured an 87-44 victory indoors over the Redskins. 
The Irish netters, 4-1 following a loss to Michigan and a victory over Michigan State earlier in the week. will face Southern Illinois. Cin­cinnati and host Indiana State in Terre Haute Friday nnd Saturday. Notre Dame escaped with a 5-4 win over Indiana State last year during a 26-5 campaign and also defeated Cincinnati, 8-1. 
NO's golfers, under the direction of Rev. Clarence Durbin for the lith season, returned from a week of exhibition matches at Lancaster 
S.C. with an unofficial 14-1-1 record. The Irish were 14th at OSU last year. 
Jake Kline's baseball club, with four regulars hitting above .300 and a pitching staff that has registered five complete games and three shutouts in 10 starts, 
dropped 14-3 and 7-6 decisions ~o 
l 

the ~0-7 ~obcat~ a year _ago. OhiO t.r., s~ekmg a ftfth str~ught MAC title, IS 5-2-1 after watchmg a three-ga_me_ set with rival Western M1ch1gan washed out last weekend. 
Irish track coach Alex Wilson again will be counting on good efforts from high hurdler . Tom McMannon 04.1), the NCAA in­door champion, Tom's brother, Mike, in the jumps and weightmen Elio Polselli and Greg Cortina. 
Miami, 1-1 after watching a home meet with Northwestern called off because of snow, is led by 16-foot pole vaulter Scott Wallick. 
Stickmen to battle Buckeye 'ers 
its 4 game win streak under fire when they clash with the Ohio State Buckeyes on Saturday, and Ashland College on Sunday. 
Fresh from their 7-3 whipping of Wooster last Saturday, the ND stickmen will be facing a tough defensive-minded Ohio St. squad in Columbus. 
Last week, Ohio St., 2-5 stopped number 1 rated <club division) Michigan, 11-5. 
Offensively, the Buckeyes are a real threat and the Irish expect to have their hands full with All­American attackman Skip Van Bourgondien, who scored 30 goals last year. 
save injured defenseman Fred Morrison, but hustling Ernie Bergkessel has done the job defensively in Fred's absence. 
Coach Rich O'Leary has been platooning the goalies and it looks like Junior Jim Roller will get the nod Saturday. 
Offensively, the Irish are hot, especially attackman Ed Hoban. ''A lot of scoring pressure is on Ed". midfielder Dave Jurusik commented last night, "but our middies have been scoring and we intend to pick up some of the scoring burden." 
Sunday's game with Ashland will 
.&?~, 
j)~Y 


RoGERS 


Optical 
ROGER ATWELL -OWNE-R 


FRANKIE'S 
EVERYDAY DINNER 
SPECIALS  
-Ocean P~rch  $1.25  
-1 0 oz. Rib-Eye Steak  $1.50  
1h Broasted  Chicken  $1.50  

Includes Tureen Soup, Salad, Bread, Butter and Coffee Planning a Party? Frankie's has Special Rates ~_.for Student Partie~! 

';·:··:.., 
.. 

Mike Fanning, who set a NO record for most pins in a season with 20, was named MVP for the 71-72 squad last night. 
Fanning, Ryan honored 


Departing captain Ken Ryan and freshman heavyweight Mike Fanning led the parade of those cited for awards last night at the annual Wrestling Banquet. 
Coach Terry Mather, speaking at the dinner, told the team that he was "very pleased" with their 11-4 record the best in school history and th~t "The past season wa~ just the beginning. We still have a iong way to go " 
· 
Fanning, who set Notre Dame records for the _fast~st pin (19 seconds), most pms m a season (20 l, and most dual meets wins in a season (14), took Most Valuable Wrestler honors. 
Ryan, whose Notre Dame record of 50 career wins will be marked with a plaque on the wrestling room doors, received a new award, 
the "Man" award, presented to the 
wrestler who best exemplifies the 
all-around qualities of manhood. 
Another new honor, the "Heart" 
award,  went  to  versatile  Mike  
Kemp,  who has  wrestled  weight  
classes  ranging  from  142  to  190  

pounds over the past two seasons. Steve Moylan and Fritz Bruening, both of whom are headed for Europe next season, won plaques as Most Improved Wrestlers. Moylan's eleven wins this season were all by pins. 
Mather decorated seven wrestlers with "Wrestler of the Week" plaques. These awards, whose recipients were decided by the team, went to Ryan and Fanning, along with Mike Kemp, AI Rocek, Steve Moylan, Mike Martin, and Rich Esposto. 
feature two of the Midwest Club league's high scorers, Rich 
Ferrari and Gary Marino. 
HOURS: MON • lUES • THUR -FRI 9 AM. 5:30PM WED -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLETE $PecrACLE 
SERVICE ALL f': E OR_'$ PR'ESCRIPTIONS HONORE! 
Call 
289-7809 
i 

Three of Notre Dame's spring sports teams will head to Ohio this weekend, seeking to improve on their winning records. 
The Irish golfers will make their regular season debut today and Saturday in the annual Robert Kepler Invitational at Ohio State. The 54-hole event will attract between 15 and 20 schools, in­cluding most of the Big Ten teams and leading independents in the Midwest. 
The baseball team, 6-5 after 
....I...­

Globetrotters here Friday 
"Outfoxt-d you!" The Harlt-m Globetrotters' famed Clown Prince, l\lt•adowlark Lemon. taunts his opponent. The Globies will display their baskt>thall talents Friday night in the ACC. 
The fabled. fun-making Harlem Globetrotters are coming to the Athletic and Convocation Center on Friday. April 14th. to put on their incredible basketball en­tertamment program that's been witnessed by 68,000,000 fans in 87 countries during the past 45 years. 
The Magicians of Basketball will meet the Boston Shamrocks in the feature of a giant-sized program starting at 8:00 p.m. 
The game will be backed up by entertainment personalities the Globetrotters bring along for the pre-game and between-halves varietv show, talented artists discovered in various parts of the world visited by the famed cagers. 
"We have new routines and new gags, plus several exciting new players. comprising the family entertainment package this season. explained general manager George Gillet. 
Crew,Ruggers on the road 
Both the crew and rugby squads will see action away from home this weekend as the rowers travel to Detroit to take on Wayne State and the ruggers meet Cornell on neutral ground in Buffalo. 
The crew team. suffering from a shortage of coxmen will see action in both varsity and junior varisty competition starting at 2 o'clock Saturday afternoon 
The Ruggers. trying to improve on their 3-2 spring mark will take 
f only their A squad to Buffalo for their clash with CU beginning at 3 o'clock. 
We brought over 40 rookies mto our training camp this season and I've never seen such outstanding talent," Gillet said. "The 46th edition team is the finest in years." 
Going into the 1971-1972 season, the Trotters have played a total of 10,656 games -7,606 of these in 
North America, the  other  3,049  
overseas.  They have  won  10,333  
and lost 323.  


Friday, April 14, 1972
12 
the observer 

North Vietna:mese capture Anloc 

By Craig R. Whitney fought scattered small battles with Southern Laos where, according to 
<c> t!li2 New York Times Communist troops along the Cua informed American officers, there 
Saigon, Friday, April14 --North Viet River northeast of Dongha, are still 450 enemy truck Vietnamese troops, attacking with but the government defense movements detected each day. a force of more than 40 light and positions held. North Vietnamese rn The strategically important . heavytanks. took control Thursday gunners fired 40 rounds of 130-mm. mountain road approaches to the of half of the Province Capital of Long-range artillery at Quangtri city of Hue, South Vietnamese Anloc, 55 miles north of Saigon, but Combat Base just north of that infantryment held fast again soldiers of the South Vietnamese province capital and South Viet­Thursday against Communist 
attacks from all sides of Fire Base
F'ifth Division still held the other namese bombers destroyed three Bastogne, Hue's outer line ofhalf after heavy fighting all during tanks and killed 45 enemy troops at defense, situated 19 miles south­the day. Camlo District Town, the Saigon west of the city.
According to official reports Command said 
received by American and South After calling in two B-52 strikes
Clouds that had been thick over 
Vietnamese military commanders a relief force trying to break
North Vietnam above the zone also 

in Saigon, the heavy communist through an enemy siege of
lifted today, but the U.S. command 
assault on Anloc, capital of Bastogne said it had found 210
released information on air strikes 
Binhlong Province, began just bodies of North Vietnamese 
or naval bombardment there and 
after dawn Thursday. At the same soldiers, but as of late Thursday
a spokesman said that' an­
time a South Vietnamese relief the government troops had not got 
nouncements would be withheld 
force, drawn from the 21st Infantry until American air operations in through to Bastogne. 
Division and airborne troops, In the Central Highlands, where 
the north were completed. 

a major North Vietnamese drivefailed again to make much has been expected on Kontumprogress in their drive north on 
Highway 13, from Chonthanh dawn raid Province, South' Vietnamese airborne troops were attacked at
toward Anloc, to relieve the en­Early Thursday morning, the an outpost called Fire Basecircled fifth division. 
command announced that B-52's Charlie, 19 miles northwest ofThe South Vietnamese command had hit targets in North Vietnam Kontum City. The defendersasserted that 30 enemy tracked before dawn in the second such reported killing 36 north Viet­
vehicles were damaged or 
raid since the North Vietnamese namese soldiers and 200 others
destroyed in the fighting that 
offensive began in the first week of were reported found killed by airbegan at 6:45 a.m. Military of­
April. strikes.
ficers said that seven of the 
The command did not say what In the heavily populated Mekong 
vehicles were Soviet-made T-54 
the targets were, but informed Delta area west and south oftanks but could not identify the officers said they were made on Saigon, militia and ranger troopsothers. 
mig airfields near Vinh in the fought with the enemy in three
Antiaircraft fire all around 
southern Panhandle. The B-52's provinces, reportedly killing 100Anloc, a small rubber plantation came under attack from 16 to 20 enemy soldiers and suffering about town near the Cambodia border, 
surface-to-air missiles, the the same number of killed and
was heavy Thursday. The fire prevented hehcopters from U .S.officers said. wounded themselves. 
bringing supplies or rein­The air campaign against the forcements to the encircled Fifth North could expand greatly once Division force, but at the end of the the weather improves. About 40 21st goes north 
afternoon American and South more F-4 Phantom jets were 
Vietnamese officers were brought to Vietnam today to add to The southern region has been left reasonably confident that it would the roughly 600 fighter-bombers without one of its regular defen­not be overrun by the attackers, already in the country and the 100 ding divisions, the 21st. which has who are estimated to number B-52's in Thailand and Guam. been sent north in the campaign about 5,000 troops from three Air operations, including B-52 along Highway 13 to relieve the 
North Vietnamese divisions. strikes. are also continuing against besieged South Vietnamese force communist supply traffic on the Ho in Anloc. Chi Minh Trail network in American jet fighter-bombers,
lighter action 

THICK AS A BRICK 
Action on the other fronts in the two-week-old Communist offensive 
The new Jethro Tull album 
was less major: 

Gets Its Indiana Premier On the Kevin Dockerei"Morning Sh ,
. OW,
--In the far north, below the 
Monday mornmg 12-2 am, WSND-FM. Listen in FMstereo 
demilitarized zone, South Viet­~'!!~ regulars and militiamen 
SPECIAL OFFERING 





DOUBLE KNIT JEANS $12.99 
Enjoy a new lifestyle..... these great jeans give and stretch for the most comfort you've ever enjoyed, yet they always keep their shape. Choose black, brown, tan or blue. 
Pay Next Summer 
Pay June, July and August with no carrying charge or interest added. 
A~~~~· 
~ILBERT'S ~ampU$~hop 
ON THE CAMPUS . . . NOTRE DAME 
most of them from the aircraft carrier Constellation, flew 112 air strikes in support of South Viet­namese troops as the battle around Anloc heated up early Thursday morning. B-52 heavy bombers flew three missions and dropped hundreds of tons of bombs just two miles west of the city between noon Wednesday and noon Thursday, according to the United States Command. 
Military officers here said that the_ enemy breakthrough at Anloc, which has been under attack since North Vietnamese units began moving south on Highway 13 on April 5, began early in t~e morning when troops were seen marching down the highway toward Anloc. Tanks-about 20 at first -came in on the city from its short airstrip to the northeast. 
United States Air Force AC-130 "spectre" gunships were called in from Ghailand to attack the tanks, the officers said. 
But enemy antiaircraft fire, including 51-caliber machine guns and 37 mm. artillery, was heavy all around Anloc, the officers said, and kept the U.S. Navy Jets from striking as heavily at the tanks as they had planned. 
By noon, communist troops were reported in control of the northern oart of the town and two tanks were inside it, the officers said. But after fighting all afternoon, the South Vietnamese defenders ap­peared to be regaining control of the situation. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
• 

FOR SALE Lost: One Tiger. Affect ionate 
unless aroused. 1971 HONDA C B 100 -only driven Reward if returned. 800 miles. Call 1166. 
NOTICES For Sale -Ampex AM-FM Stereo Cassette System. Brand New Parts and Accessories for 1m­Heads. Also, pair Custom made ported cars. Foreign Car Parts speakers, 1 yr. old. Cheap · Must Co. 215 Dixieway North Sell. Call 2106. (Roseland) 272-7187. 
2 bedroom home on large sooded so ga lions free gas with 4 tire lot near campus, NW; one purchase; 25 free gallons gas with bedroom with panelling and built­2 tire purchase. Ask about our in bookshelves, ideal for study; rustproofing and shock absorber new aluminum storm windows, specials. Ron's Standard 1409 
new colonial cedar siding, wall to Portage Ave. 255-0520. wall carpeting, newly redecorated kitchen, soft water system, 1112 Beaux-Art Ball, Saturday, April car garage. For sale by owner. 15. 9 pm · 2 am. Ox Peddle th.eme­
Priced for quick sale. Call 234-Super market stomp. Creative 8652. attire, Tickets: AR­
CHITECTURE LIBRARY. 1966 vw -$325. 233-5570. 1128 Lincoln W.W. · Call Paul Blum. Mary Ann 234 3250 
Experienced Typist 69 VW Bus -Tape deck, $1195 after Will negotiate on rates. 6 pm. Lakeville, 649-3849. 
ORIGINAL JONAH FISH FRY. 1970 TRIUMPH GT6 +, Dark ALL YOU CAN EAT. St. Joseph Blue, Superb condition, must see Grade School; Hill & Colfax Sts. 
to believe. AM-FM radio, Fri. April 14. 5 pm..ap.m. $1.75. Berellis, stebro exhaust, new transmission, $2,400. Call John Baseba II Freaks: Knights of 
232-4135. Columbus sponsoring EX­CURSION to Reds-Cubs game For Sale: 1 ND ring. Size 1011:1. April 29. Price $8 for members or 
Best offer. Ed -1812. girls, $10 non-members. Includes 
Box Seat ducats. Food & 70' Truimph Bonneville. 5300 Beverage on Chartered Bus. If miles, $1100 firm. 232-8831. interested call Bob Cunningham 
(1876) or K of C. (7018). 1970 Ritz-Craft 65'X12' mobile home. 3 bedrooms, double bath . El Club Panamericano utiIity room with washer and Elegira' Nueva directiva. dryer garbage disposal -par. Rogamos a todos los Iatinos tially air-conditioned -and partly de ND y SMC el asistir a las furnished. In excellent condition. elecciones. 
Now parked at Green brook Fecha: Domingo 16 de Abril. Estates. asking $5,800.00. Call hora: 1:20 p.m. evenings 233-3749. Iugar: International Room, LaFortune. FOR RENT 
WANTED Kitchen & Rooms-$45 per month. girls only. Also free rent for Desperately need ride to 
summer for painting the house. Cleveland April 14th. Call Mary 233-1329. Beth 4828. 
LOST AND FOUND Wi II buy used ten -speed. Ca II 234­2376. 
LOST: Thoreau's Walden:­Hardbound, personal value Two female housemates needed. reward. Call 3444. Summer only. Inexpensive & 
near campus. 284-5165. Lost: "Jailers" key ring with 4 keys. Lost before break. If found Girl wanted: 
call 5448. April 20 May 20. 
--------~ ~----~ 
To cook for 3 off-campus dwellers. Lost: Glasses with green tor-Free room & board. Only serious t ioseshell frames. Call 3713. 
inquries. Call 233-3893. 

Lost: l brown imitation leather 
WANTED: We will do typingiacket. lambs wool lining Ed 
anyt1~e for reasonable prices,
1812. 
especially on short notice. Call 
Chip 8256 or Mike 6963. Found: Caravelle watch in Rock -----------­before Easter break. Identify. 
Folksingers wanted to entertain 
ph. 6991. 
April 22, evening. Call 272-8237. 
FOund: Men's Gold Longines Need one used bike. Please call 
watch at CCE · Morris Inn. May 
6556 for John. claim by further identification. ------------­Call 7744. 
Need to borrow Alice Cooper 
"Love it to Death" album or Lost: Turquoise silver ring at the 
cassette. Will pay. Life or death. rock pool Katie 4483. Call Mark 1033. 
PERSONALS 

hiebe Susannah B., Wir mussen Ieider dir sagen, dass Words lda 2da 3da 4da Sda 
1-10 .65 .9S 1.15 1.35 1.55

diene "rodelling" stellung 
11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40

morgen fullen wird 
16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95
Vater B 
21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45

Barry, 
31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15
The BRATS wouldn't be the 
36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 

same without you. 
41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20
M.R.B. 
%·50 3.SS 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 

;--­







