---------~­
.....-------~-3/1!7~ 
to welcome in in­ternational hamburger pickle month, we have hamburger pickle weather: rain this af­ternoon and snow tonite. 


Vol. VI, No. 90 of notre dame -st. mary's Wednesday, March 1, 1972 
Editorial 
Never, since student power and self-government was systematically organized seven years ago, have so many students been so bitterly disillusioned about what student government can do for them and about what they can do for themselves. The massive turnout for SBP hopeful Bob Kersten and for UnCandidate the Cat has conclusively proven that students at Notre Dame reject what the candidate himself termed so neatly "the student government oligarchy," which has situated itself in La Fortune for the past three years. 
That's why it is so important to elect Paul Dziedzic Student Body President tomorrow. All of Dziedzic's past efforts in student government have been directed towards throwing student government open to the student body. All of his plans for the future point in precisely that direction. 
As Omsbudsman, Dziedzic and his small staff have han­dled the complaints of close tn a thousand people at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. He has dealt with individuals one-on­one, and he has solved their problems. He has expanded the 
.•••, office's capabilities by a factor of two. •••• 
::;:; As a candidate for Student Body President, Dziedzic has :;:; offered a comprehensive, intelligent plan for opening student government to the students-or more correctly, of bringing student government to the students. By searching through an organized assembly of hall presidents and section leaders, Dziedzic would form a closer union between student government and the students than has ever been formed before. 
Paul Dziedzic has the sort of courage which can lead this union. He had enough courage to publicly· ask his cabinet chief, John Barkett, to explain why he was organizing Notre Dame support for the St. Mary's strike, and enough courage to tell Barkett to go to hell when he couldn't give an adequate answer. It is the courage of conviction, and Paul Dziedzic leading the convictions of the student body will be something with which the Trustees will have their hands full. 
This union between students and student government , •••· once formed, would be a potent force in dealing with Ad-·•••· ~;~; ministrators and Trustees. It would be potent when the i:~;: 
l~l\==========================================;;:======::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::J~~=~=~=~~~~~===~=~=:=f:g:~r:}L::::i!ir 
Ballot tan1pering causes SMC re-vote 
Alteration of forty Augusta Hall ballots in favor of Eileen Fitzpatrick caused yesterday's Saint Mary's Student Body Presidential election to be invalidated, according to candidates Jean Seymour and Sue Welte. 
According to Seymour and Welte, Ms. Fit­zpatrick brought knowledge of the vote­tampering before the election committee and caused chairman John Gaal to declare the election invalid. 
Gaal and the election committee is obliged by the SMC Procedural Manual to count all ballots twice within 24 hours of the original election. Last night, the counting stopped when the 40 vote discrepancy was discovered. 
According to Election Committee member Lori Sofranek, only 200 votes were actually tabulated, although Gaal told the Observer that all the votes were counted. 
"We cannot allow such an obvious tampering incident to go unseen," said Ms. Seymour, candidate for SBP. "We were asked by the election committee and Eileen to keep this whole thing quiet, but that course of action is clearly not in the best interest of students." 
"No new administration," said her run­ningmate Sue Welte," can go into office with something like this hanging over its head. We object to the fact that those ballots were not counted, and we want it brought out in the open." 
According to Ms. Seymour, none of her representatives at the counting saw the 40 allegedly invalidated ballots. They were shown one. and the the hall name was not revealed. 
An information leak from the Election Com­mittee reportedly brought the Augusta incident to light, according to Ms. Seymour. 
Jan Natale, campaign manager for the Seymour-Welte team, said, "For all we know, those 40 ballots may not have made a difference one way or the other. All the candidates have put a lot of work into this, and I hate to see this election be dragged out two more days if it isn't absolutely necessary." 
(continued on page 4) 


Kersten, Dziedzic slated for runoffs 
by T.C. Treanor Observer Assistant Editor 
Bob Kersten, a joke candidate whose can­didacy became more and more serious as the campaign went on, last night polled 1740 votes ­
35.8 percent of the elctorate -to lead the field of nine Notre Dame Student Body Presidential contenders. 
The voter turnout of approximately 75.8 percent of the undergraduate student body is the heaviest turnout in any Student Body Presidential race in the last seven years. Out of a student body of 6400 students, 4855 voted yesterday; the weakest showing came from off­campus, traditionally a light voting area, with only 356 voting. 
The 36 percent figure is not nearly enough to give Kersten a first -ballot victory, though. Instead, he will face Omsbudsman Paul Dziedzic in a runoff election tomorrow. 


Dziedzic collected seven hundred sixty-nine votes, or 15.8 percent of the elctorate to out­distance SLC Vice-chairman Floyd Kezele by 103 votes for the second spot and a right to appear on the ballot with Kersten. 
Kersten carried all halls save Lyons, Keenan, Badin, and St. Joe's in heavy voting turnout. He scored majorities in Breen-Phillips and Walsh, his home hall. 
Student Government Ombudsman, Dziedzic took two halls, Keenan and St. Joe, but did not score a majority in either. 
Kezele, SLC Towers representative, collected over 200 votes from the high rise dormitories and ran well in Farley, Holy Cross and Dillon. 
Kezele racked up a total of 666 votes or 13.7 percent of the total, while Hall Life Com­


missioner Bob Higgins garnered 9 percent of the 
Paul Dziedzic

vote, with 439 ballots. 
That total was nearly matched by Joe Schlosser, off campus junior who came in fifth Zahm, where one vote seperated him from Floyd with 437 votes, for 9 percent. Schlosser came in Kezele and eight from Bob Higgins and Joe second off campus,losing it to Bob Kersten. Schlosser. 
Higgins ran strongly in Alumni, home of his Michael Cunningham and A. Dennis Thomas running mate Ron Pogge, in Badin, his home hall were distant eigth and ninth place finishers and in Zahm and Morrissey. respectively. Cunningham, with a total vote of 
Zahm was the big hall for Chuck Luken , giving 82, or 1.7 percent ran well only in Dillon, his him 60 votes. He ran only nine votes behind front home hall. Across the rest of campus he failed to runner Bob Kersten there. Across the rest of get above ten votes in any hall. Thomas campus it was a different story with Luken managed to garner eight votes on campus, with coming in sixth with 254 votes. The only other twenty coming from off campus. His total was place he ran strongly was Fisher, his home hall. 28 or .6 percent. Sorin, home of his running mate Walter Spaak, None of the Above, on the ballot for the first gave the ticket 17 votes. time this year, got 189 votes, or 5.6 percent of the 
Lyons hall was captured by Gary Caruso who total, thus outdrawing four of the candidates. edged out Bob Kersten there by seven votes. The heaviest voting for none of the above was in Caruso finished seventh with 241 votes for 5 St. Ed's, Dillon and Cavanaugh. Across campus percent of the total. He ran well behind the other it failed to gain more than 12 votes in any single four candidates in every single hall except hall. 


't. •, .. --..,.. 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, March 1, 1972 
CAC plans cancellations to balance overspending 

by Joe Powers 
The Cultural Arts Commission 
will cancel the Spring Folk 
Festival and will attempt to 
break contracts with Tom Rush, 
Duke Ellington, and the Chinese 
Dance Company in a last ditch effort to balance their over-spent budget. 
CAC Commissioner Robert Brinkmann also assured in a statement made last night, that "there will be no changes, whatso ever," in plans for the Sophmore Literary Festival. 
When Cass Rejent, Student Government Treasurer was asked to estimate how deeply the CAC had overspent its funds, he replied, "I'd rather not talk figures, it might scare people. Let's just call it a substantial amount." 
While Brinkmann stated that he did not have a present figure to give, he expressed hope that the deficit could be whitled down to $1,600 by the end of the year. "However" he admitted "the CAC willl~se more if it ca~'t get out of the contracts." 
Tom Rush is contracted for an April 28 appearance in Stepan Center. He was to have been the feature artist in the now defunct Folk Festival. Duke Ellington is scheduled to appear April 6, also in Stepan. The Chinese Dance Co., as part of the Performing Arts Fstival is booked for the end of March. Brinkmann felt the Ellington concert would break even but anticipated a $1,000 loss if the CAC could not escape from the contract with the dance group. 

Rejent, a senior business major, cited mismanagement in contract dealings as one of the major reasons behind the CAC's financial woes. He added, "Brinkmann has unilateral control over all contracts." "when they're written up, there's never a clause allowing the CAC to back out." 
Rejent pointed out a bungled incident earlier in the year where Brinkmann alledgedly signed a 

sports p~~chuting -skydiving 

For those of you who missed the first ND-SMC Parachute classes 
Hurrah! We are now starting our 
second set of classes. For more information phone S.B. 291-6565 
The Observer Is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame. Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. Notre Dame. Ind. 46556. 
Regent: Never a clause to get 
out of contracts. contract with a company that "promised 'X' artist at a certain time and date and demanded a 50 per cent deposit immediately." The artist cancelled out due to "illness" but the CAChas still not recieved a refund of the deposit, which Rejent estimated to be $4,000. 
Brinkmann admitted that he had signed such a contract, that he had, in fact, signed two con­tracts with the company men­tioned, neither of which materialized. Brinkmann ex­plained that Neil Young can­celled out because "they said he was sick," and "We decided to cancel Sea Train when the price jumped $2,500." The booking firm which contracted the artists still holds the $6,250 deposit. 
Phillip J. Faccenda, Vice President and general counsel for the University, was contacted Monday by the CAC to arrange for a return of the deposit. He stated that he was "still checking into the matter," but that it appeared to be nothing more than a ')routine business problem." 
Speculation that some of the speakers for the Sophmore Literary FEstival would have to be cancelled was squelched at a meeting last week between Brinkman, Ray Funk, cnairman of the festival, and Student Union Director Bill McGrath. Brink­mann explained that many professors had synchronized their course reading lists to concur with the authors 

Brinkman: CAC will lose 
more money presented at the festival and felt, "it wouldn't be right to cut it down." 
In relation to the budget, Brinkmann announced the presentation of four additional films this semester in the hope that the money raised would cout substantially into the deficit. Rejent stated that the Student Government would probably underspend its budget by $6,000 this year and this money would probably go to the Cultural Arts Commission. He did not seem to feel that this would balance the budget, however, as he added, "The CAC will have to get out of some of those contracts or we'll all be nailed to the wall." 
''Hello, Chief? 
Pocahon'fas andI just eloped!" 
"Delicate" news is so hard to communicate in a letter-and so much more graciously said with a long distance call. Costs so little, too, when you dial direct (about V2 the cost of person-to-person). For example, a direct·dialed call to Niagara Falls after 5:00 p.m. would cost less than $1.00. The tactful way to "break news" is to call. The economical way is to dial the call direct. 
Ha~nlet 
A PLANNED HAPPENING 
March 3, 4 at 8:30pm March 5 af 7:30pm Little Theatre, Moreau, St. Mary's Tickets $1, free for subscribers Information at 284-4141 or 283-7054 

PLACEMENT BUREAU INTER VIEWING SCHEDULE 
ADDENDAM TO WEEKLY BULLETIN OF MARCH 6. 10 
Sign any time this week for these interviews omitted from Monday's Iist. 
March 7-8 INDIANA BELL TELEPHONE CO. BBA in Mgt., Fin. and Mkt. (Students interested in other Bell System Companies, may leave resume or College Interview Form at Placement 
Office). 
March 910 AYRWAY STORES. BBA and MBA. 
FOR SUMMER INTERVIEWS: 
March 6 JOHNSON WAX. Juniors in Ch.E., M.E. and M.E.I.O. For Engineering Trainees in Racine, Wisconsin. 

Wednesday, March 1, 1972 THE OBSERVER. Pav;e 3 
'World 


briefs 

((') 1972 New York Times 
Washington-Senators Mike Mansfield and Hugh Scott, the majority and minority leaders, will visit China at the personal invitation of Premier Chou En-Lai, the White House said Tuesday. President· Nixon spent his first full day back in Washington in attempts to assure conservatives that he had not given too much away to China without gaining anything in return. 
Washington -The Senate adopted the compromise antibusing measure offered by its leaders, Senators Mike Mansfield and Hugh Scott. Much stronger measure, however, was only narrowly defeated berore the adoption of the Mansfield-Scott amendment. 
Washington -A memorandum allegedly written last year by the chief lobbyist for the International Telephone and Telegraph Cor­poration links the settlement of an anti-trust action against the company with a pledge by I.T. T. to help finance the Republican National Convention. The memorandum was made public by columnist Jack Anderson. Both the company and the Justice Department denied the implications in the document. 
on campus today 
6 p.m.--meeting, Sail Club, room 204 engineering auditorium 
8:00 p.m. ·-lecture, Prof. michael j. francis, nd govt. dept, chile: a gringo's view, library auditorium. 


Voter Registration Drive nets 70% success 
by Greg Rowinski 

Check your state --and vote this year
Insight Starr Writer The Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Voter Registration Drive, co­
Can youYou must register by: Where to go/ Residency You must be register
chaired by Pat Coyle and Joe State 
primary election general election write/phone requirement 18by absentee!
Myers, has been active since its inception in early September .. 
The impetus for the drive was provided by SBP John Barkett, according to Coyle, who supplied the interested Coyle and Myers with the information Student 

Colo. Deadline: AuCW~t 11 County clerk; Denver 8 moe. in stale; Nov.? for general
Government had received from 
~~-..-+=~.""~mw-~~~o~:~·~~~~~:..'u=-~----1-:-~:a-"-:-:-~-m-':-:o-•_~~-~~~-"'~•-~-"--~Sop-L_u_~_._ru._""__~---­
national voter registration 
by convention town clerk 1yr.lnatate;81111;*..1n

Dept. ofEliiCtiOJI.II Nov.?for
groups which outlined campus -~-,-.-i~~-,~~".-~~r~.~-.~~--1-~-..-~-.-~---county; 30 daya,
incountylle&t both lllectlODII
precinct

registration campaigns. 
Notre Dame posed a difficult problem for any such campaign, since 85 per cent of its students are from out of state. ND's drive required a unique approach. 

County clerk or

DL In doubt Nov.?
At the time of the group's 
elaetlon comml.l!llloner 

~---I-D~ad~,.,~,~.~..~u,~----l--------lc0~,.~,.~
0 ,~"-~"~"-ro-.,-,-l•sm~o~•.'"'"""wwt~"----I~N~.,~.,~fu-,-.,-.,-~-,--1-----­
organization, it was nearly im­
-Ind_._rP::-"""""-:::--'~-:--'::-(P_>--~-----or bd. of reglatratlon : ~!Y.:!: ~~~~~; May 2for primary Y1111
possible for non-residents to Iowa 
Deadline: May 'Z1 City clerk or 6 moe. In stale, Nov. 'I ror generalPrimary: .June 6 county auditor 60 day• In county June 6 tor primary
register in Indiana. Since then, 
Deadline: July 11 County clerk or county 6 mos. In state; Nov.6forgeneralPrlmery: Auguatl elaeUon eommll<llloner ao daye In town or ward all:d primaryKana_ October 11
the situation has improved. 
-K-~---~-~~n~~~uo-~~~~.;~~~,.~---1-~-.-,,m-~-,-,-COunty clerk, bd. of lyr.lnat!l.te; Smoa.ln Nov. 7forgeneralre&letraUon In cltlee Ma:y28forprimery
county;80daya, 
precinct Deadline: July 20 Nov. 7forgeneral 
The group's initial approach 
1yr.ln atale; 
Primary: AUI"\IIt 19 Aug.l!lforprilllllJ7
was to encourage students to La. ~ !::: :!: ~r:.~ci 
Maine Deadline: June 9lo 18 Varies from Oct Regleb":ar of vot11rs 8 m011.ln ltat.-.; Nov.? for general
JuneUifor prtm..-y
register at home. An early poll ---1-p::-""""'--c--'-'~-'-'..;'#---171 to Nov. 8 or bd, of re«iitrntlon 3moe. In county 
resulted in a 53 per cent already Md ~.=:= :!'~~~ (P) Octeber 9# ~~~no~ r:!:~tnr :.r:.':;~~ns!!~ty ~d·p~l~enertl registered figure. Since then, the 
Deadline: Kan::hZ: primary: :----l-"'"'";;;-;;;"'""'=o•;;-,=='"->o-""l----'---'----·hN"-~"'."'""'""'•~;;;,;;;..,;;---I·-­
percentage of registered voters ::~;~~r~~~-~-~--bo_•_~___l-:=~~~~~~~~~~:=::~o,-,--~,-m-.,,~,"-'~w,~"----·12~~:~:~~mu~o~~~~~-:7,~---~-----
Mich. 
Primary: AuCW!It II# October 7# v:llla.K"II clerk '!I wka. In town Aug. 'l for primary
has increased to 70 per cent. 
Deadii.De: AUI"\IIt 22 City, village or Nov.'lforKeneral Primary: September U# October 17# town clerk 30 da,.aln pr~~elnct Sept. 12 for primary
Posters obtained from national 
1-,r.in.tatelllld
lllisa. July? county:lm011.1n Nov. 1 ,.,.. pDeral
organizations were displayed prec:lnct around campus, urging students 
to register at home. Permission 
was obtained from University Some states provide registration only on certain days throughout the year and are marked 
President Fr. Theodore M. 
by att Call the local official early to be sure of time you can register. Some states provideHesburgh, himself a member of complicated procedures for those who turn 18 after the registration deadline but before the the National Advisory Board for election and are marked by a'-'\ All other states allow those who haven't turned 18 to registerthe Student Vote, and then acting if they will be 18 by the age deadlines listed in column six. States holding primaries for the SMC President Sister Alma Peter 
Presidency at the same time as local contests are marked ( P). 
to include a registration reminder with the tuition statements mailed out during Christmas vacation. 
Since Christmas, efforts have 
continued. Absentee-registration 
request forms were made 
available at the dining halls. 
Coyle reminded any interested in 
requesting such forms to be sure 
to contact their boards at least a 
month before the elections. 

$100 a month while in school
The St. Joseph County Board of 
Elections has clarified its stand 
and make it possible for non­
residents to register here. 
To meet this change, the group 
has had two of its members, Joe 
Henderlong and Sheila Culligan 
deputized to register voters in 
Indiana. 
This registration campaign will 
take place from March I to 14. It 
is aimed primarily at the 30 per 
cent still not registered, but will 
also involve any of the 70 per cent 
who wish to void their home state 
registrations to vote in the In­
diana elections. Thus, any 
student who did so would be 
eligible to take part in Indiana's 
May 2 primary. 
Coyle has also worked with a few good men 
Ombudsman Paul Dziedzic to 
send delegates to the Emergency 
Conference for New Voters,. 
which provided information on Dining Halls 
how to organize registration Noon and Evening Meals 
drives in the delegates' home Today through 3 March 
states. · 


THE OBSERVER. Wednesday, March 1, 19721 
Brother Ryan discloses to HPC 
New applianc~_ ban proposed 
by Don Hopfer 
Last night at the Hall President's Council meeting, Brother Kieran Ryan opened himself to suggestions for alternatives to the appliance ban recently proposed by the cost to date of rewiring seven halls was quoted at $272,172. The total in refrigerator fines collected to that date was just over 50 thousand dollars. 
He said the fines have a two­fold purpose; namely, to deter the students from the use of he had heard that there are units with capacity up to 4.6 cubic feet which would not be much dif­ferent from the smaller units and that their acceptance was under consideration). Notwithstanding this ban, allrefrigeratoroperators would be fined next year at the 

presidents had some prepared as presently at the school to pay for well as comments on the policy. ·depreciation that has been taking --Dave Loring of Keenan place for forty years. Fur­wondered whether the funds to be thermore, they thought that halls 
allotted by the Trustees could be which do not need rewiring were utilized to defray the cost of being unjustly taxed for the rewiring. Bro. Ryan said that renovation of older halls. there were other priorities which After Bro. Ryan's departure, 
University. 
The Assistant Vice-President 
for Business Affairs also ex­
plained the rationale behind the 
ban with the aid of a five page 
release inCluding a letter from 
the University's insurance 
company, Royal-Globe, which 
said that the use of refrigerators 
should be discontinued and also a 
fact sheet from I&M Electric 
Company. 
The letter from the insurance 
company to Mr. C.S. Reddy, 
Notre Dame Insurance Officer, 
said, "The practice of installing 
used domestic type refrigerators 
in dormitory rooms by students 
should be discontinued." The 
reasons they cited for this 
suggestion included breakdown 
in electrical wiring, thus bringing 
about fire situations, lack of 
accomodation for these facilities 
in older dorms, and the 
possibility of leaking gas in an 
older unit using ammonia as a 
refrigerant. 
Thefactsheetshowedthatsuch 
appliances as air conditioners, 
"domestic type" refrigerators, 
televisions, toasters and hot 
plates had an average load ex­
ceeding 400 watts, and, in the 
case of the air conditioner, ap­
proached 1800 watts. Ryan 
considered this to be creating "a 
dangerous peak load," especially 
between the hours of 10:30 pm to 
midnight, when usage increases 
greatly. 
Emphasizing that the proposal 
has not been implemented but is 
only under consideration, Bro. 
Ryan felt that the University had 
no alternative save for banning 
certain high wattage appliances 
for reasons of health and fire 
safety. 
"It has been drafted for con­sideration only and represents the position I think we more or less have to take," Ryan said. 
Rewiring of Interest 
He added that the rewiring factor was of particular interest. In a letter to John Barkett from Bro. Ryan dated Feb. 18, 1972, the rate .o~ $20.00 per semester.

appliances and to help defray the Tel~viswn se~s also, would becose of rewiring. 

subJect to a fme of 10 dollars a
In effect, the statement 

semester.
provided for the prohibition of air conditioners, broilers, HPC Comments 

rotisseries, skillets, toasters, and hot plates. It further limited the, Bro. Ryan stressed the fact size of electric refrigerates in that he was "completely open to 
rooms to three cubic feet(con­suggestions" and at the end of his cerning this, Bro. Ryan said that presentation several hall 


Peter Gennaro to choreograph spring znusical, 'Sho'Wboat' 

Peter Gennaro, well known 
dancer and choreographer will be 
working with the Notre Dame-st. 
Mary's Theatre all this 
week(February 28 to March 3). 
Mr. Gennaro is in town to do the 

choreography for Show Boat, theIspring musical. 
The fa-ther of Notre Dame 
senior Michael Gennaro, Peter 
Gennaro agreed to do the show 
when he heard that Dr. Roger 1 Kenvin was looking for "a Peter Gennaro type choreographer." Mr. Gennaro said he "wanted to do something for Notre Dame." 
Peter Gennaro is perhaps best 
known to audiences for his 
dancing and choreography on the 
Ed Sullivan television show. He 
has also performed on and 
choreographed the Perry Como 
Show, the Andy Williams Show, 
the Jackie Gleason Show, and the 
Judy Garland Show, and ap­
peared in numerous specials such 
as the Robert Goulet Special, the 
Mitzi Gaynor Special, the Bing 
Crosby Special, and Brigadoon. 
On the Stage Mr. Gennaro has 
danced in shows like Guys and 
Dolls, Kiss Me Kate, The Pajama 
{iirl. and Rt>lls are Ringing He 
· was the choreographer for 
Fiorello, and Hallalujah Baby, 
co-choreographer for West Side 
Story, and he choreographed both 


SMC election 
(continued from page 1) 

Eileen Fitzpatrick and current SBP Kathy Barlow were unavailable for comment. Representatives of both the Seymour­Welte ticket and the Observer tried until 5 am this morning to contact them. 
According to the election committee decision, there will be no campaigning until the re-election. Signs already posted will remain posted, but no new material or campaigning is allowed. 
Gaal also said that stricter balloting procedures will be used. Election committee members will be the only ones allowed to monitor the voting, and other precautions will be considered. 
Nite Editors: J~ Abell, John Abowd Assistant Nite Editor: Marlene Zloza Friends and Lovers (no wives): Maria Gallagher, TC Treanor, Ed Ellis, Glen Corso, AT Darin,Ann Conway, Jerry Lutkus Day Editor: Bill Sohn Nite Controller (with mucho dedication): Helen Smudski 
PAIR YOUR OW CAR! 
USE OUR TOOLS, PARTS AND KNOW-HOW 
• ROOMY, WELL UGHTED SERVICE AREA & EXPERT SUPERVISION 

• 
600 HP DYNAMOMETER AND ALLEN ELECTRONIC ANALYZER FAST, ACCURATE DIAGNOSIS AND CHECK OUT 

• 
WHEEL ALIGNMENT, BALANCING AND TRUEING 

• 
TOOLS FOR EVERYTHING FROM TUNE-UPS TO MAJOR OVERHAUL 




AlJr®lECH 
112 MilE ~0.

'Phone Toll Free From So Bend OF lJiS 12 ON US :jl 

(SOUTH Of NILES)
684-1 

Gennaro: To set up dances for 'Showboat'. 
the stage and motion picture versions of 'The Unsinkable Molly Brown. 
Mr. Gennaro is presently producing and choreographing shows at the Radio City Music Hall in New York City. 
ha~ been put off for a few years the HPC considered a proposal to which w?uld have to be taken form a committee to investigate care of first. possible alternatives to the ban 
--Both Joe Markosek of Farley and related fines, but the con­and John Kwicien of Morrisey sensus was that the presidents 9uestioned the .v~l!dity of making should get back to their tt the responsibility of students respective halls foro inions first. 

NEED EXTRA CASH?? 
If you Are Mature 
Have a car 
Can work 12-15 hours per week during normal business hours 
Can communicate with the business man 
Enjoy direct selling 
We would like to talk with you about 
the great opportunities in selling our 
fine Phone Accessory Equipment. For 
appointment call COM-U-TROL272-87 fl 
In the heart 'of downtown South Bend 

GOOD FOOD AT MODEST PRICES 
! ·Steaks ·Chops :chicken ·Sea Food "(;ful et atmosphere -pleasant surroundings 

f.rAR~·s 

& ':C_.. ~ \ 
t l

-~.ll=.J ;~~­
105 WEST COLfAX AVE., SOUTH BEND 

CLOSED MONDAYS 
Daily & Sunday 11 am till 9 pm Saturday 11 am till10 pm 

Frorn the creatorof "Bridge OrverTroubledWatet;'' 
"Mrs.Robinson?'Sounds ofSilence;'and 


somanyotherunforgettable songs. 
PaulSimon. Singing some of the besttunes he's everwritten inthe years mostimportant new album. 


OnColumbiaRecordsl!landTapes 
~--~-----~-----------~----------­
Wednesday, March 1, 1972 TH£, OBSERVER. ft!p! 5 
Higgins, Kezele throw support to Dziedzic 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII paigned on a social activities
by Jerry Lutkus attention to me, but I imagine 
c L K platform felt that he could
S· c H T D K NONE not most of my supporters will go
Defeated SBP candidate Bob
z E give an endorsement as of last
c u A I u l-1 E OF with Kersten."
Higgins came out with a strong
H' I evening. Cunningham was not
N R G K 0 z R THE Thomas avoided declaring a
;tatement of support for run-off
E pleased
I,' N u G E M E s ABOVE particularly with his definite endorsement of Kersten, 
~ontestant Paul Dzeidzic last
0 I s I D L T _showing in the election, noting though.
N A 
1ight in post-election activities. 
especially his poor showing in

s N 0 N s z E E 
t<:arlier in the evening, runner-up Candidate Gary Caruso could 
s G I Dillon Hall.
s N 
E"loyd Kezele urged students to not be contacted late in the 
E H \C He also expressed a desire to
·'get out and work like hell for evening either for statement or 
R A aid in the social make-up of the endorsement.
Paul Dzeidzic." Other candidates 
campus for next year. But
M 

~hat could be reached failed to· 
Cunningham said "Whether or 
T e literary

throw their support into the
St. Ed's 16 6 2 10 31 7 32 14 not I get a title, I'll still help next 
~amps of either Dzeidzic or 
Catalyst_
year."

primary winner Bob Kersten. 
A student pubIication with the

B-P 4 9 18 8 0 39 15 97 6 Denny Thomas, a campaigner 
student in mind. 64 pages of short

In his statement, Higgins saia 
for the off-campus students, also 
stories, poems and essays, written

"We wholeheartedly encourage didn't endorse a candidate,Alumni 30 8 50 34 0 16 44 64 6 
by students throughout the United

everyone to consider the future of 
States. Stanford 7 22 :!0 9 2 31 39 95 8 was elected, I would not regard it 
though he said "if Bob Kersten 

Student Government and support 
Sample issue $.50 

the Dzeidzic-Sherrod ticket." as any kind of tragedy." 
ational Collegiat

Farley 6 2 18 4 0 17 52 106 10 Higgins also confirmed the Thomas noted that when you've 
support of coalition ticket mates got 28 votes in an election, 
Publications 

Keenan 4 5 4 9 9 0 95 50 83 5 Jean Seymour and Sue Welte in "You've gotta be philosophical 
Unlimited

saying that they fully endorse 
about the whole thing." And he 

Box 14 Flourtown, PA 19031 Sorin 10 9 5 17 0 29 4 52 8 further conceded that "I don't
Dziedzic and Sherrod. 
And what about looking back into the future?

The Hall Life Commissioner think anyone will pay too much 
noted that Dzeidzic "more fullyFlanner 61 0 20 :!0 5 78 95 166 9 
demonstrates the spirit of co­
ATTENTION PRE-LAW STUDENTS

operation we worked for."
Zahm 33 5 24 33 6 0 19 25 69 7 
Chuck Luken, candidate 
Notre Dame pre-law society presents

Lyons 23 0 72 9 5 0 7 14 li5 5 from Pangborn Hall, failed to support either run-off candidate claiming that he could not be
Cavanaugh 11 0 13 6 :! 53 17 63 15 
Three Law Students (2 guys, 1 girl)

honest with himself if he told 
people who to vote for. "We've
Pangborn 6 5 5 8 55 0 19 17 70 4 
speaking about their law experiences

been fighting against en­\) 7 dorsements whole
Holy Cross 16 0 7 2 0 6 32 36 this cam­
paign," he said. "In an election like this no one should really tell 
Friday March 3-7:00 pm

St. Joe's (i 0 2 0 3 0 16 0 10 8 
someone else who to vote for." 
127 Nieuwland

Luken expressed happiness at
Badin 2 5 50 5 2 14 11 27 (i 
the student dissatisfaction with Student Government that was
Dillon 24 !6 5 20 0 :!0 40 103 17 
mirrored in the Kersten vote. "I 


SAVE MONEY 

think the vote for Bob demon­
Walsh 2 4 10 0 12 8 145 4 
strates a need for an alter­
Do your own work on your car.

native." He claimed that
Howard 30 0 3 15 19 0 12 15 42 8 
throughout the campaign, his approach was one of an alter­
We have

Fisher 5 0 10 30 :!0 0 0 26 53 11 native, but noted that Kersten was a "radical alternative." 
Timing light Impact wrenches

Grace 43 3 10 33 10 0 132 Ill 144 11 
The Student Senator noted the possibility of a Student Govern­
Ignition analyzer Socket sets

Morrisey 52 6 5 53 9 52 15 66 9 
ment-in-exile saying that there 
Gear pulle-r Socket set (metric)

Off-Campus 73 5 2 12 8 20 44 29 152 11 are many thinking of it if Kersten wins. But Luken asserted that "I 
Car polisher

still think he'll (Kersten) win."
TOTAL 437 82 241 439 254 28 759 666 1740 189 
and many other tools

When Joe Schlosser was 
reached, he revealed that he was
PERCENT 9 1.7 5 9 5.2 0.6 15.8 13.7 35.8 5.6 
very happy with his showing. He 
TV sets and Mini Refrigerators at

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111It111111.111111111111111111111111111111 Ill111111111111 
also refused to come out in direct support of one of the run-off 
surprisingly low rates, too! Also roll 

candidates. "We really needed to turn 
Father Chambers sets up 
away beds for that extra guest on 

Notre Dame over in this election 

displaced students rules 
weekends!

and we did," Schlosser comJ 
mented. "We're still carrying
by Sue Prendergast far as i know, there is now no 
energy into Spring and into next 
process for evacuation," Tobben 
10% Discount with Student ID

year."
said.
Badin and Walsh residents will 
Schlosser registered his in­
Fr. Chambers proposedmove into other halls according 
tention to continue more Student
establishing hall damage control to a quota system established by 
Center concerts and "open-air
boards to determine who isFr. Thomas Chambers, director 
things in the Spring." "They 'II all
responsible for damages to theof student residence, and an ad­
be spontaneous, very open af­
hall. These boards to be com­hoc housing committee of hall 
fairs," he said. He also pledged at
posed of 3 or 4 members of thepresidents. 
least one more film to follow-up
The displaced students will hall judicial boards, would on the one produced for his hold equal rank with their 


relieve pressure on the hall 
campaign. 
2022 South Bend Ave. 272-5483

presidents, Tobben said.
classmates in other dorms in 

Mike Cunningham who cam-
selecting rooms. "Time in Badin and Walsh equals time in any other hall," according to Dave Tobben. secretary of the com­mittee. 
More than 325 beds will be available to Badin and Walsh residents, although only 270 are expected to be needed, Tobben said. The extras will be assigned to freshmen. 
The committee consulted each hall president in setting the quotas which range from 30 in Flanner and Grace to 10 in 
Cultural Arts Commission's Fund Raising Films presents
Fisher, Holy Cross, Howard, St. Ed's. and Sorin. "There will be some flexibility in these figures, but we (Office of 
GIMME SHELTER 
Student Residences) will try to 
with Rolling Stones

stay close to them," Tobben said. In other business, Fr. Cham­
Thurs. & Fri. March 2 & 3 
bers told the committe that all lofts and partitions in the rooms 

8 & 10 pm Washington Hall 

will be removed this semester or this summer at the latest, since they violate regulations and 

Fund Raising Film Patrons 
create fire hazards. The committee agreed_ to 
(purple card) Free! 


Admission $1.50 

initiate fire drills in the halls. "As 
Wednesday, March 1, 1972 

p 6 THE OBSERVER.
• 1 t What is and what will be the real
SMC g1r S CODlDlen On Dlerger; Employability of an Engineer? tell of disappointDlent, anger EINGINEERING -A SINGLE 
by John Cominsky Editor's note--Mr. Cominsky researched this story with St. Mary's students on Tuesday afternoon, following the an­nouncement of the Notre Dame­St. Mary's merger negotiation cancellation. 
Final cancellation of merger negotiations will force St. Mary's students to make serious decisions concerning their academic futures. The concensus of student opinion seems to be that St. Mary's has committed institutional suicide, and that those students who entered SMC because of the promised merger no longer have a stake in the college's future. 
In speaking to students yesterday, they, especially sophomores, are under extreme pressure to decide immediately whether to stay at St. Mary's, attempt to transfer to Notre Dame, or to leave the two in­stitutions completely. The nature, of application deadlines is such that many of these decisions will be hasty, and many others will be resolved through inaction. Those unable to transfer out will feel imprisoned by circumstance, and the resultant apathy will kill community at St. Mary's, ac­

cording to some SMC students. 
No Merger Regretful 
Many students, with a genuine · love for the friends they have made here, and the institutions themselves, regret the decision not to merge, and see no future for a St. Mary's separate from Notre Dame. They believe that_ 

Jazz Festival announces \schedules and judges 
Jazz-rock percussionist Aymsley Dunbar of Frank Zappa's "Mothers of Invention" has joined the list of distinguished judges par­ticipating in the 14th annual Collegiate Jazz Festival at the University of Notre Dame March 9 -11. 
Other nationally famous personages on the panel include Hoberta Flack, top recording artist; Dan Morgenstern, editor of Down Beat magazine; Jamie Aebersole, reed player, and Hubert Laws, winner of the 1972 poll by Down Beat as best jazz flutist. 
Sixteen major university bands will participate in competition on March 10-11 in Stepan Center, and 15 midwest high school bands will compete all day March 11 in ()'Laughlin auditorium on the adjoining Saint Mary's College campus. The top band in this group will perform at the Saturday evening finals of the collegiate group. In addition, three guest bands are scheduled. 
Participating in the festival, which Down Beat has described as "the first and foremost of all college jazz festivals," will be bands from Arizona State, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, University of Illinois, Ohio State and Michigan, Southern University of Baton Houge, Shenandoah Con­servatory of Virginia, Malcolm X College of Chicago, and others. 
Festival judges will participate in a symposium, "The Current State of Jazz," at 7:30 p.m. March 9 in Notre Dame's Center for Continuing Education. This session and a talk by Morgan­stern on "Jazz History" at 2 p.m. March 10 in the Memorial Library Auditorium are open to the public without charge. 
Admission to evening sessions March 10 and 11 is $3 each night. The afternoon session March 11 is $2, or one can purchase ad­mission to all sessions for $5. There is a 50 cent admission for the high school competition March II. 
2 PROOFS OF AGE REQUIRED 



WEDNESDAY-TUESDAY 
March 1 -7 







WIIJB eiNBY 
no man could keep her down untiI . • 



LOVING 

financial and organization~! stalemat~ should not be allow~d 
to stand m the way of academic excPilence and a more realistic social situation. Merger with a previously existant institution may be the best method by which to ease into coeducation. 
General discontent, and talk of negative recruitment, indicate that some present studenfts woultd 
1 rom ­discourage app icants a tending St. Mary's. Without a 
steady influx of students 
PATH T 0 A M U L TITUDE

QF CAREERS 
Dr. Frank leurssen 
V .P. of Research -Inland Steel (Presented by ASM Student Chapter) 
Rm. 3 0 3 En9. B u .IId.In9 

genuinely interested in St. 1----------------------------.J
Mary's, the school could become an alternative for Notre Dame's cast-offs, and an aura of second class citizenship would arise. 
Basically Merger Oriented 
--Since St. Mary's appeal to its present students seemed to be basically merger oriented, it would also seem that whatever appeal SMC had previously no longer exists, or is overshadowed by present mistrust. The need for a Catholic women's college may no longer exist, or may call for an institution radically different than those now in existence. St. Mary's obviously cannot remain a sister school, on an equal basis with a co-ed Notre Dame. Ten­sion and rivalry will replace the present community and mutual interest. 
ncn 
2RECORD SET 



VICTOR 


HEnRr No~ 

m~ICn$5.49 

VPS-6029 

SPECIAL SAVINGS on these selected RCA Records and Tapes. 

RCII Records and Tapes 
Notre Dante Bookstore 
---~-------------------------~-------------------------------~----------------­
.. 
Wednesday, March 1, 1972 

THE OBSERVER. 


ND ho-sts 'Nova in home finale 
by Joe Passiatore stead turned into one of the low season will be the year Notre Dame will be surprising people
Basketball season at the ACC points of the year. 
and evening accounts with teams
comes to a merciful close tonight Irish a four
The have game 

such as Indiana. Right now,
at eight o'clock when Notre losing streak and their total won­
however. the Irish are not unlike
Dame plays host to the Villanova loss record of 6-18 will be the 
the punch drunk fighter who
Wildcats. 
exact opposite of the team they 

keeps getting up after being
The unrelenting Notre Dame will face tonight. With Dayton 
knocked down on the hope that he 
schedule again pits the Irish awaiting the Irish Saturday after 
can come up with a knock out
against an NCAA tourney tonight's Villanova match-up, punch.
hopeful, and as the North nobody is betting against a Carolina and South Carolina twenty-loss season. At any rate, even if Notre games recently proved, teams Dame hadn't been drained by the
This year has been a long and 

that have the incentive of post trials of an unsuccessful season,
exasperating experience and 
season activity going for them the task of defeating Villanova
neither the fans, players, nor 
are not likely to be upset. would be a difficult one. The
Digger Phelps can be blamed if 
Wildcats are currently com­
The game will mark Nottre they are now looking ahead to 
peting for an at-large berth in the
Dame's first appearance at next year when help will arrive in 
Eastern division of the NCAA
home since the Fordham rout, a the persons of a recovered John 
tournament and have knocked off
game that could have given the Shumate and the impressive 
such teams as South Carolina,
basketball season some sem­freshmen backcourt pair of Gary 
Duquesne, St. Bonaventure, and
blance of respectability but in-Brokaw and Dwight Clay. Next Tennessee. 
Eric Kink opf ·=========================================================================================:::::::::::: They don't have many cold shooting spells, as is evidenced by their 48 per cent field goal percentage over the year, and
Kinky Sports 
their average offensive output is 
82.6. On defense they allow just over 70 points a game.
;:::::::::::=:=:::=:=:=::Roller Ruckus in the Raw? 
The leaders of the club are two holdovers from last year's fineJust in case you missed it, Your Own Jolters (or Our Own Jolters, as 
team which beat Notre Dame
the case may be) downed the Southern Eagles in Roller Derby action 
badly at the Palestra. Hank
Monday night in the Convo, 41-40. 
Siemontkowki and Chris Ford
The intricate details (are there any, ask Stan the Mouth) of the 
are the senior returnees and they 
pseudo-sport fiasco were far beyond my comprehension, it being the 
occupy the two forward positions. 
first time that I had watched with undivided attention the fantastic debacle. Siemontkowski is 6'7" and 6'5", played guard on last year's The game will be the last op­
averages 18.5 points per contest,
But from what I can remember (it was one of those forgettable team. but has shown no ill effects· portunity to see Digger Phelps'
along with 10.2 rebounds. Ford,
experiences) the Derby dandies put on quite a show. in the transition to forward as he crew in action and, admittedly,
More than once, Francine Cochu, the 4-11 sparkplug "jammer" of contributes over 17 points and chances of an upset are slim. the Jolters "sat out" (?)through the legs of hefty, 5-7, 160 pound Jan WCHA eight assists every game.Vallow of the Eagles to score for the home team. And Jerry "the_ Blond Tiger" Cattell of Your Own was the victim of quite unconvincing The leading scorer for the WCHA pugilistic fakery by "Sudden" Sam Tiapula and 1968 Roller D. Wildcats is 6'4" junior guard Tom 


Standings 

"Rookie of the Year" Ronnie Turbin throughout the evening. Ingiesby with 19.5 points per 

Games

Pts game. Inglesby hurt his ankle in But the biggest response of the night by the blood-hungry Hoosier w L Pts GF GA Lt. 
Wisconsin . . . :!0 ti 48 130 77 8 a recent game, but in keeping GAME )VEDNESDAYcrowd came when "fiery" Ann Calvano of the Jolters draped the 
Denver ....... 17 9 46 138 100 8 Colorado College at Minn.·Duluth
with Notre Dame's lack of luckchunky Vallow over the Derby rink rail, and proceeded to give the Michigan State 14 12 • 40 108 89 4 this season, he should be ready to C.AMF.S FRIDAYEagle matron a sound spanking with her "pivot" helmet (shades of de !llorth Dakota . 16 10 40 120 101 4 
Minn.·Duluth . 14 12 38 117 108 4 go tonight. The other guard is Michigan State at Notre Dame (7:45Sade? l. 
Michigan Tech II t3 JO m 114 4 p.m., ACC) .
Eddie Hastings who is usually
At that point the crowd came to life, and Margie Laszlo, apparently !'loire Dame... 9 Iii 26 106 110 4 Colorado College at Minn.-Dulllth 
16 16 125 153 4 good for about eight points a Minnesota at Michigan
a Hoosier favorite, seized the moment. Colorado Col. . 10 
Michigan ...... 10 16 24 99 157 8 game. 6'8" sophomore Larry Denver at Wisconsin The lanky Laszlo, who gave up a modeling career(?) for the Derby Minnesota . . . . . 7 19 14 77 123 8 Moody is the center and his North Dakota at Michigan Tech life, circled behind the flustered Vallow, and attempted to pants the statistics are 10.2 points and 7.8 GAMi;S SATURDAY
WEEKEND RESULTSEagle female co-captain. !\Jotre Dame 1·9, .Michigan 2-4 rebounds per game. The Wild­Michigan State •t Notre Dame (7:45 
p.m.. ACC)

It was a low blow, to be sure, and the referees gave Laszlo a one Denver 13·6, Colorado College 2·9 cats are led by veteran coach -Minnesota at Michigan
Minn.-Duluth 5-5, Michigan Tech 2-7

minute penalty, and a $10.00 fine for ...well for ... ah, trying to expose Jack Kraft who has made a habit Denver at Wisconsin ~
!\Jorth Dakota 4·1, Minnesota 2·5Vallow to the crowd, I guess. Wisconsin 5-6, Michigan State 0-4 out of winning seasons. Nortll Dakota at MicblpJI Tecb All in all though, the whole exhibition seemed to be a rather boring insult to anyone with an I.Q. of over 53, who paid to see twenty eight 

Coaches sound off on Frosh rule
adults whiz around a banked track. But the resident Hoosiers loved it, those 2,000 plus who showed up. by John Fineran the country were 
considered in agreed on one point -the affect on

And actually it would be only fair to mention that all the participants This January, in a surprise 
the course of this report. This is the freshman player.
in the contest (I refuse to call them athletes) are damn good skaters. 
move, the NCAA ruled that fresh! the first of a two-part story. It "It could hurt the freshman
But that is as far as any athletic excellence goes. men would be eligible for four 
will deal with college basketball player scholastically,". said More important than being able to skate, is the ability to give an years of varsity competition in and the freshman athlete. Manning. McGuire agreed,Academy Award performance at the drop of a hat. football and basketball. Many of Football and the freshman saying, "Would it be morally
Evidently, the most important move in an endless repertoire of the big powers in both sports athlete will be considered in the good and academically good for dramatic stunts for the Roller Derby artists seems to have been one were against it; many of the second part. the freshman?" where one of the skaters, under the impetus of a well-placed hip block schools which saw the immediate The questions put forward to The Dean of collegiateby an opposing skater dives onto the rink rail, suspends his or her body advantages of the ruling favored the basketball and football basketball coaches, Adolph Ruppthere for a fraction of a second, falls to the ground (being careful to it. Between now and the starts of coaches were the same: What do of Kentucky, disagreed with fall on the head), feigns brain damage for a split second, and then these two seasons, the athletic you feel in general about the Manning and McGuire on the 
climbs back into the rink, seeking retaliation. boards of the colleges, univer­ruling? Would you use fresh­scholastic point. "It will not hurt
sities. and the various con­
Timing is very important in this intricate move. Get up too soon, men? Do you think it would the freshman scholastically
ferences will have to decide their 
and the crowd, who may already have a slight feeling that everything cause any problems on your because they play as many
opinions on this rule and the
ain't Kosher may finally realize the fakery. Get up too late, and the team? Were you in favor of it? games now as the varsity."
incoming students that each
coach may have cardiac arrest. Do you think it will hurt the fresh­He went on, "We will use fresh­
September brings. 
Actually, the whole routine is rather simple, the hardest part is man athlete scholastically? Most men next year it they are making it seem real. The NCAA ruling was finally of the coaches questioned did not qualified. It will not cause any And last night was a good test for the Derby actors and actresses. passed this January because of answer the questions as they problems. I have always been in 
After all, if you can fool 2,000 Hoosiers, you can probably fool anyone. the contiqual_ \ financial dif­were stated, but they did have favor of it." 
Anyway, the outcome of the cosmic clash between two of the ficulties of collegiate athletics. some opinions concerning the John Wooden, the coach of the members of the International Roller Derby League (ya gotta be Many schools and coaches have freshmen ruling. national champion UCLA Bruins, kiddin' me) was never in doubt. The baby blue and black clad Jolters argued for it; many schools and Duquesne head coach, John was probably the most outspoken were in command throughout the battle. coaches have questioned the "Red" Manning, commented of these coaches. 
Oh, the Jolters and Eagles kept the score close, but it seemed as ethics behind such a ruling. that "a rule such as this could "I don't like the freshman though everyone in the Convo sensed that Your Own Jolters, playing in Many questions have been put help my squad." The Dukes have ruling. I don't know how it will front of Their Own People would not disappoint the home town fans. forth concerning the status of the only eight players on their var­effect college basketball. I feel 
And as it turned out, the Eagles took the dive, and there was no freshman athlete in college sity team. He went on, "I don't freshmen need a year of ad­doubt that the sun would rise on the Wabash tomorrow. sports: Will collegiate sports be know if it will help overall justing to college academics. 
When it was all over, the patrons made their way out, many walking hurt or stimulated as a result of though. It could hurt the fringe That's why they are here in the past the track, trying to sneak a peek at the Derby lovelies and studs. the ruling? Will the rule itself players, discourage them from first place. I feel they can One gentleman eased close to the railing, in an effort to get Ann hurt the freshmen? These playing college basketball. The compete athletically, but, in 
Calvello's autograph. questions were put forward to colleges will try to get the some cases, not scholastically. Apparently, the guy forgot to bring a pencil and pen, and the pug­such notable college basketball premium players to use im­It puts too much strain on the 
coaches as John Wooden <UCLA) mediately." freshman athlete."
nosed, freckled 43 year-old vet gave him a look that would have turned AI McGuire <Marquette), and Marquette coach, AI McGuire, So. as can be seen, the collegea mountain lion into a petrified pussy and said, "What the hell do you 
expect me to sigh it with, my nose?" Adolphy Rupp <Kentucky), and disagreed with Manning. "I don't basketball coaches of the country 
Well gee whiz, Ann, the least you could have done is grabbed that such football coaches as Joe like it. But whatever the Big Ten have mixed emotions concerning piece of paper and blown your nose with it. I mean, for the rip-off you Paterno <Penn State), Paul does. we'll do. A rule such as this the new ruling. In a future ar­and your cohorts just pulled off, it might have been supremely sym­Bryand <Alabama), and Ara could be good for the small ticle, the football coaches will 
bolic. Parseghian <Notre Dame). The school." state their opinions on the new Ya know what I mean? opinions of the various sections of Both Manning and McGuire 1NCAA freshman ruling. 


Wednesday, March 1, 1972

Pagel THE OBSERVER. 
contracted by student govern­

A definite possibility for a "breach of contract" and 
ment, it will be the option of the

freshman class lawsuit against "negligent misrepresentation. " 
freshman class to continue to

St. Mary's College exists, ac­Individual sophomores and 
extend the issue into a court case. 


SMC freshznan 
cording to attorney Tom Singer. juniors will also have grounds for 
At a recent meeting the fresh­

SMC student government suit if they feel they are receiving 
man council recommended not to

secretary Nancy Christopher an inferior education, or believe 
do so, but this decision was

revealed yesterday that Singer, a they were deceived into coming 
contested by the women mem­


la"Wsuit possible 
lawyer· contracted to study the to SMC with the impression that 
bers. They have scheduled a 

unmerger case, had discovered merger was imminent. 
meeting for Thursday at Carroll

by Maria Gallagher suit possibilities on two grounds: Although Singer has been 
Hall. 

To renovate the Student Center 


LaFortune contest open to all 
University Vice-President for Student Affairs Fr. James Shilts and Student Government l{esearch and Development Commissioner Ed Ellis an­nounced yesterday a contest with a fifty-dollar first prize for students interested in renovating La Fortune Student Center. 
In a statement released yesterday, Fr. Shilts noted the request of the Board of Trustees for "a student survey ... taken to include the physical facilities that would enhance social life in the residence halls and in a reconditioned LaFortune Student Center that could operate around the clock, possibly with all its present offices transferred
.. 
elsewhere." Fr. Shilts continued, "We are asking all interested students to draft and submit to the Office of the Assistant Vice-President for Student Affairs plans in­corporating ideas for such renovations." Items to be considered in the plans include the current location of the Administrative and student offices in LaFortune, potential student usage, and cost. Fr. Shilts said that some of the offices may be moved, but since this was not certain, plans could be submitted with or without the offices. Proposals should be submitted to the Office of the Assistant Vice­
!'resident for Student Affairs by Floor plans of the current Friday , April 21. The proposals student center may be obtained will be judged by a "qualified in the office of the Vice-President pane I," and fifty dollars will for Student Affairs in LaFortune. presented to the author of the best plan, with 25 dollars going to Questions should be directed to the runnerup. Fr. Shilts or Ed Ellis. 

1-Ed~rlal:::,:::~:] 
:;:;  Trustee's attempt to crack down next year on Parietals, as  ::~:~  
:;:;  the two women's dorms will surely move them to do.  :;:;:  
:::;  It would be potent in making inroads in the fight to have  :;:~  
:;:;  coed dorms next year.  :;:;:  
:;:;  It would be potent in changing the current Academic  :;:~  
:;:;  Calender, which presently has us planned to come back in the  ~:~:  
:;:;  second week of August.  ~:;  
:;:;  It would be potent in preventing the administration from  ::r:  
:;:;  enforcing the ludicrous and insulting refrigerator fines they  ;:;:  
:;:;  intend to levy at us. Brother Kiernen Ryan says t~e  ;:;:  
:;:;  Univeristy is "considering" fining students $40.00 for 3-cubtc  ::;:  
;::;  ft. refrigerators, and $10.00 for televisions.  :;:;;  
::;.  We believe a union between students and student govern­ :;:;:  
:;:;  ment led by Paul Dziedzic would be potent in removing that  !:;::  
;:;:  consideration from the Administration's mind.  :::::  
::;:  Many students believe that it is impossible to deal in any  ;:;:;  
;:;:  way with the Trustees, and the day the student body gives up  :;:;:  
;:;:  those students will be proved right. But as long as there is  :;:;:  
;:;:  fight in the student body, and as long as there are intelligent,  :;:;:  
:;:)  courageous, responsible men like Paul Dziedzic to lead that  ::;:;  
:;:;:  fight, the Trustees will not have carte blanche to run this  :;:;  
:;:;:  University.  :;:;  
::;:; !;:;:  Because we believe that the students must become part of student government, and because we believe that Paul  ;:;::;:j  
:;:;: ~:;~  Dziedzic is the man to form and lead that union, the Observer editorial board unanimously and firmly endorses Paul  ;:;: ;j;j  
:;:;  Dziedzic for Student Body President.  ;:;:  

i1::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=::::;:::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:::::::::::j~ 
THINK SPRING. THINK EASTER 
THINK JOB HUNTING. THINK ... 

DOUBLE KNIT 
Doubleknit is it...wrinkle-free, never restricts or 
binds, looks crisp and fresh always. We are now 
showing the new doubleknit suits, sportcoa~ and 
slacks in a fine array of colors, styles and stzes. 
Whatever you're thinking of... remember 
doubleknit. 

LAST WEEK FOR CLEARANCE 
You'll still save as much as one-half on sweaters, shirts, all-weather coats, suits, sportcoats, etc. 

PAY NEXT SUMMER 
Pay next June, July and August with no service or carrying charge. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
Barb, Betsy. Cathy and Von,
WANTED 
To lhe gracious gourmets with the sunshine smiles
wanted ride to denver for spring Muchas Graciasbreak, can leave almost anytime·· For lhe delightful. gastronomicalplease call chip--8256. 
Celebration of life. Tim, Dave, Dave, Mike, Jack,
POETRY WANTED for An· 
Jason, and the Old Man lhology. Include stamped en­velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. 
NOTICES 
Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90021. 
Private Party Friday Night. Girls Only. Transportation Provided. 
Ride needed to Long Island area. 
Call 232-9625. 
Can leave Thursday. 7956. Roma Party Friday Night· All the 
Need ride to Cleveland. March 2 Schlitz you can handle, Coke free or 3. 4864. 
loo. Rock music by CHAPPED LIPS. All ND·SMC students in· 
Ride needed to Dayton and back viled. 2nd Floor at the ROMA,
March 3. Call CHRIS 8659. 
Michigan Avenue next to Morris Civic Auditorium. 8:30 · 1:00. 
Need ride to Peoria (or within Admission: $2.00 (N.D.), $1.50 
hoUI" radius) Mar. 3 · 4374. (SMC) 
Need ride to Cincinnati or Dayton. 
Parts and Accessories for lm · 
Will pay expenses. 6880. 
ported Cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North 
Sociology Maior needs couples 
(Roseland) 272-7187. 
living together, not married, to answer questionnaire. Please call SAVE YOUR HANDS FOR 
234-1926. 
BETTER THINGS--TYPING DONE FAST AND 
Need ride to Cincinnati or Dayton REASONABLE. CALL MIKE 
area March 3. Call 4788 or 4081. 
6963. 
Two girls need ride to Michigan DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and 
State Friday, March 3rd. Call 
Within Europe. Leave anytimeBETTY 4341. KATHY 4881. 
lrom NY Chicago. Flight Center 227 North Randall, Madison, WI 
Need ride to Florida over Easter 
53705. (608) 263-3131. 
break. Call Mary Ann 4552. 
N('W 7th & 9th grade classical­
FOR SALE 
christian school needs English, Latin, Math and Science teachers. 
Golf Cart for sale or rent. Call Since salaries will be small the 
JIM 8906. 
first year, we're looking for qraduate students (preferably
For Sale: Parts, accessories for with Masters) to work part-limerecently acquired '69 Mach I. Call while at Notre Dame. Send vita,HAIRY 234-4259. 
references, etc. to Magdalen
·------­
School. P.0. Box 1225, South Bend,
LOST AND FOUND 
46624. 
Lost: Blue and gold knit scarf. WILD FLICK. Don't miss Call TOM l437. Reward. campus thriller of year. WAIT UNTIL DARK. Sponsored by Lost Aluminum film cannister Youngstwon Club. Sat. Mar. 4th containing 2 rolls of film · very Engineering 7 9 -11. important! Call 1466 or 1465. 
CIVIL ENGINEERS Join AC· 
FOR RENT 
TION, The Peace Corps-Vista team, and use your talents to ehlp$40 mo. rooms. Girls only. 233­
others help themselves. See 1949. 
ACT ION recruiters at the Library Feb. 28 March 3. Or phone 283­
PERSONALS 
6255. 
Jackie, Roses are Red, Violets are 
ARCHITECTS. PLANNERS· Get 
blue, Nobody can giggle exactly year's of experience in a short like you. A compliment you want. 
lime with ACTION (Peace Corps.
A compliment you'll get. You're Vista). Put your skill to use lhe...well you're kind of...You're helping others. See ACTION 
sorl of...um ... 
recruiters in the Library this Jimi 
week. Or phone 283-6255. 
"Popular" Bob, please come 
MBA'S LAW MAJORS-ACTION,
horne. (But not at 5:30) The Peace Corps-Vista agency
Your Roomate needs your skill to help others develop theirs. See ACT ION 
Don Bruns: Please return recruiters at the Library Feb. 28· 
cadaver all will be forgiven. Dr. 
March 3. Or phone 283-6255. 
"0" and Med Students. HEY! Edge City, St. Mary'sCongrats Jean...but to us you'll Coffeehouse LIVES. Everyalways be SALLY SPORT. 
Sunday night. 8 12. Best local Hogg and Coach 
lalenl. good coffee. Just a 
quarter.Happy Birthday to a beer clriniking, hockey playing, girl 
CHIMES accepting poetry, fie· snatching Albert. 
lion, essays, graphics. Submit to 
Luv, 
D. Kerr 533 McCandless, R. Two Typical Freshman 
Campell 813 Grace, T. Knoles.P. 
Smith 334 Filion. 5th Floor Flanner and all who were lhere. Thanks for the 
Words 1da 2da Jda 4da 5da(Jreatest party! 
1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55
"WI1o Stole the Kishka!" 
11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 
Bachelors 3 and married Italian 
21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 
seekinCJ CJirl in bathtub. Must be 
26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 
born on Feb. 29. Call 3286 and ask 
31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 
lor Chuckles, Giuseppe, Sparky, 
36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 
Gizooch 
41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 
(p s. Happy Birthday) 
46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 






