
50-50 chance of snow and rain this afternoon (so what else is new?) more cold, like 18 degrees of it tonite, and 25 tomorrow morning 
serving the notre dame-saint mary's community Monday, January 24, 1972 

Notre Dame Law Building: Expand or replace? Dean Shaffer 
(inset) to find out. 
Referendunt to poll 
student sentintent 
on law bldg addition 
by Art Quinn 
Student Bar Association President Tim Hartzer announced Friday morning that the referendum concerning the expansion of the law school, originally planned for Friday, would be held today between 10 am -3 pm. According to Hartzer "Monday just seems to be a better day to get things done.." 
The refereudum will poll law school sentiment on the $1.6 million addition to the law school. Dean Thomas Shaffer announced plans, which include a new library at a press conference last Thursday. 
Over the week-end the OBSERVER contacted several law students to find out how they felt about the recently-announced school. 
Patrick Rocchio, a third year law student, had this to say about the issue: "I think they (anit­addition campaigners) are sort of creating an issue about the library. It needs to be expanded and improved but it is not really that bad 
"I think the bigger proglem is the whole idea of improvement at the law school. Some students £'quate that to have a good law school you need a good building. They are equating facilities with the quality of the law school. 
"The present condition is somewhat undesirable, but it is not unsatisfactory. It is adequate. What disturbs me is equating the type of people at the law school with some type of building program. Bricks and cement do not have that much to do with the quality of the fllace. The type of people attracted by bricks and cement have a questionable set of values to begin with." 
Third-year law student, Stephen Hellrung, said "I generally support Dean Shaffer's decision to go ahead. It is going to demand sacrifice on the part of the students and faculty. I do not think it is in the best interest of the law school to delay any longer. The benefits will outweigh the inconveniences in the long run. I am sure Dean Shaffer has the best interest of the law school at heart. We ought to respect his decision to go ahead with the plan that he, as dean, has formulated." 
Dennis Hauptly, a third-year law student reacted less favorably to the $1.6 million proposal. I think it is a mistake. If it means staying in a small structure with a base of 400 students, then it will be harder for it be the type of law school I would want it to be. It seems they could build a new building with slightly more money that what they have now. They ought to look into this more. I would like to see another ar­chitect called in." 
Third-year law student Steve Stegich said, "Since the decision that we could not move into a new building was made, we are trying to make the best of going ahead with the addition. The facilities as they stand are not adequate. If I had the decision to make I would not add on to the present building. Architecturely, it would destroy the integrity and character orf the building. The character of the building should be reserved. Aesthetically, it would be poor." 
The results. of the referendum will be available in tomorrow's Obsl'rver. 

Three students included 
71-72 Hall Life Board appointed by Blantz 
by Susan Prt>ndt>rgast 

Student-Affairs Vice-President Rev. Thomas R. Blantz has announced the llniversity's appointment of students Carl Ellison, Paul Dziedzic, and Dave Fromm to the 9-man 1971-72 Hall Life Board. 
According to Blantz, the Board is design£'d to facilitate improvements in hall life by making "recommendations to the prop£'r authorities." 
Th£' three join three faculty represen­tatives, and three administration mem­!)('rs . who w£'re also appointed by University President Rev. Theodore IIPsburgh just before the Christmas vacation. 
Assistant Dean of Students Dr. Robert 
Ackerman joins Rev. Ralph Dunn, C.S.C., 
Director of Psychological Services Center, 
and R£'bv. James Flanigan, C.S.C., Dillon 
Hall rector, as the administrative sector of 
the Board. 

ll£'sburgh also appointed Paul Conway, Associate Professor of Finance and Business Education; Peter Thornton, Professor of Law; and John Uhran, Associate Professt r of Electrical 
Engineering as faculty members of the 
board. 

Ackerman agreed with Blantz and said that he hoped that "we will go beyond approving hall constitutions and work as resource group to help organize student activities in the halls." 
Dziedzic, a junior is currently Student 
(;overnment Ombudsman. Ellison, who is 
also a junior, heads up Student Govern­
m£'nt 's Recruitment Action Program 
<HAP>. Senior Fromm is the president of 
Walsh hall. 

l<'romm expressed a desire to see the 
Board Investigate the "rector situation" 
and work to improve the physical 
facilities. Fromm suggested that the 
committee investigate the possibility of 
replacing rectors with married couples. 
JIC' contended that "since it <the hall life 
board l is appointed by Hesburgh, I think 
this body would have a lot of influence with 
the administration." 

Dziedzic agreed with Fromm's goals for 
th£' hoard but was less optimistic about its 
possibl<' effectiveness. "This board could 


bP us£'ful but its not directly tied to any fluid structur£'," he said. 
II£' contended that overlapping junsdiction, for Government structures was a common problem on campus, "It's thP samP as the SLC and Student Senate. No one really knows how they relate." He d(•scrilwd the resulting situation as "very, vt'ry muddied." He contended that although this alleged confusion is "not int£'ntional," it alienates the average studt>nt from th£' decision process. 
l<'ath£'r Blantz disputed this view "in any largP area there will be some overlap­ping." hut contended that no other board is doing exal'tly what the Hall Life Board is 

designed to do. 

lie said that there is definitely a place for thC' llall Life Board and that its ac­l'omplishnwnts can b£' very beneficial. 
E IIi son: Third student addition to 
Studl•nt Body Vice President Orlando 
Board. 
llodriguez suggPst£'d that two most im­portant oppm·tuniti£'s for the Board would hl' to study th£' physical facilities of the halls and also the relations between hall gon•:-rmwnts and rectors. 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER 
Monday, January 24, 1972 
Jerusalem--Foreign ministry sources in Jerusalem said Prime Minister Golda Meir of Israel had delayed official acceptance of an 






world briefs 
American peace initiative for at least a week to iron out the precise wording of American-Israeli understandings. But the sources left no doubt that Israel would accept the American initiative. 
Saigon--The United States command said that American planes had knocked out two enemy antiaircraft guns and damaged another inside the demilitarized zone Saturday. A spokesman said the planes at­tacked sites in the DMZ after being fired upon while on missions over Laos. In another incident, an American pilot fired a missile at a site in North Vietnam. 
Washington--Leaders of both Republican and Democratic parties in the Senate pledged to oppose a bill forbidding the use of federal funds to bus children out of their neighborhood to achieve integration. The Senate is to vote on the bill in the next few week, and the positions taken by the leaders and by President Nixon were thought to be crucial in what was expected to be a close vote. 

Mardi Gras festival to feature Richie Havens, /on Edvvards 
by Bob Corsentino 
Richie Havens and Jonathan Edwards will highlight the Mardi Gras concert, Chairman Greg Stepic announced last night. Construction for the charity benefit will begin this Tuesday, January 25, at Stepan center. According to Stepic, Mardi Gras will extend over two weekends this year. It is scheduled to commence with a kick -off dance on February fourth, and be followed by the Carnival Feb. 5 -13 and the Concert Feb. 13. 
The Carnival will begin on Saturday, Feb. 5, and be held on Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday of Mardi Gras week, Stepic said. The Carnival will officially close on Sunday af­ternoon, Feb. 13, and be followed by the concert. 

The Mardi Gras committee is attempting to raise $50,000 this year to be distributed among neighboring charities including ND-SMC Mental Health, Manasa, Council for the Retarded, Cila, and the Bengal Missions. Since 1962 more than $120,000 has been raised for charity organizations through this event. 
Stepic urged students to at­

EN61NEERIN6 GRADUATES 
MEN AND WOMEN 



Ebascolill 
Interviewon campus 
Mon., February 7 
It's find out time! Time for you to find out the role you might play in the company that has designed or constructed over 8 billion dollars of fossil fuel, hydroelectric and nuclear plants. 
There's never been a more exciting time to join Ebasco. Forecasts call for electrical power 
systems 3V2 times the size of our present 
national systems. As an engineer at Ebasco 
you'll be in the forefront of this activity. Ebasco 
engineers always have been. 
See your Placement Director soon to arrange a 
Q&A session with the Ebasco representative on 
the above date. If this is not convenient, write to 
College Relations Coordinator, Ebasco Services 
Incorporated, Two Rector Street, New York, 
New York 10006. An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
EBASCO SERVICES INCORPORATED 
®a Boise Cascade Company 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

on campus today • • • 
all day exhibit-goerge reull, french art, oshagunessy hall 
5:45 8:00 basketball-fresh­man and varsity game,acc 
8:00 lecture-theodore h. gester, columbia univer­sity; dead sea scrolls, library auditorium 

tempt to sell the Mardi Gras raffle tickets which they 
received before Christmas in order to make the event a success. Admittance to the five-day Carnival will be $2.00. Single-book sellers, however, will receive free admission. 

PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS 

is pleased to announce the appointment of as your campus representative 
KEN KERN 
call on him for all your travel needs -anywhere. He can tell you about special low rates that are available only to you 
Phone -234-6423 ND Campus Travel Bureau 

-Compliments of a friend 
lHf STROH BREWERY C0L,PMH. OC1 ROIT, MiCHIGI!.N 48~2b 


Monday, January 24, 1972 THE OBSERVER Chicago-eight defendant ---· 


Dellinger to speak Friday 
b)· Don .J. llo11h•r 

Chicago-Pight defendant 
David Ddlinger will speak next 
Fr-iday on "response of defen­
dants to conspiracy charges." 
I >PIIinger is onP of five speakers 
who havP accepted the program 
of non-violt>nce's invitation to 
addrl'ss on Coinspiracy and 
dissl'nt this Thursday and 
Fridav. 
Tlw· conference will also 
ll•atun• Leonard· Boudini, who 
has ddendl'd .Julian Bond, 
Bl'njamin Spock and Daniel 
I•:Jtsburg, Temple University 
II istory Profpssor Allen F. Davis, 
author and SANE director 
l!ichard Neul)aus, and Arthur I. 
Waskow. who coauthored A ('all 
to H1•sist llh•gitimah• Authority. 
Ddlingl'r's spl'ech is scheduled for :1::10 pm Friday at Washington llall. Thl' non-violence program will charge a dollar for ad­Ill iss ion. All other speakers will app('ar in the Center for Con­Iinuing l!:ducation and will be frt•('. 
Davis is schedult>d to speak on Conspiracy and the Amt>rican 111-ritagl'at 10:15on Thursday. At thn•P. Neuhaus will speak on "Tiwological Heflections on eonspiracy" and at eight Boudin will speak on "Legal Defense against Conspiracy." 
In addition to Dellinger, Waskow is scheduled for a Friday st•ssion. He will speak on ''AnH'rican Capitalism and AnH'rican Catholicism: On Collision Course?" at 10:15 AM. 
In addition to these speakers, tht• symposium will feature panel discussions following each lee­tun•. I>dlinger's panel consists of indided or convicted con­spirators. including represen­tativ£'s from tht> Buffalo Five and thP Oakland St•v£'n. 
Merger••• 

The Studt•nt Affairs Committee of 1111' StudPnt S£'nat£' will file a rl'porl on nll'rgcr activites son1!'t inw m•xt Wl'Pk. according to ehairman Don Patrick. Patrick. a stay smator, said that his commilll'l' will contact "llll'dia. administration and faculty of both schools" in an t•ffort' to n•sParch means to nwrgt• thl' studl'nt bodies. 
Tlw Sl'natt• has sch£'dull'd a nwt•ling at thl' md of the month. 
Aceording to thl' Conference's program . the symposium was dl'sigm•d bt•cause of a fear that "I hl' government's increasing 
us£' of th£' conspiracy charge ominously thrl'atens the civil libl'rties of anyon£' opposed to the administration." According to lht• program. the conference is dl'sigm•d to "meet this need <for dissent l in a manner appropriate to lh<· University." 
Patricia McNeal, a Conference coordinator and a member of Davis' discussion panel, com­nwnt£'d on what sh£' felt was a "unique" asp£'ct of this sym­posium. "This conference in-

Citroen 

Truly the ultimate in driving. If you haven't driven one yourself, just ask somebody who has. You'll see there's more to Citroen than just a pretty face. 
llsed Specials of the Week 
'b9 F 1 AT 124 4 door Sedan Radio and 4 speed 
'67 FIAT 124 4 door Sedan White & Black 
'68 VOLVO 1425 MODEL 2 door Automatic real nice 
'70 850 SPIDER AM FM Radio 4 speed 
'71 124 Sport Coupe Saving 
'68 FIAT ABARTH 300 CC The real thinq 
.uut.JfJI 8,

auto/spot·t 
l':itr!'1~,.., 
52148U.S.31 N. 
Soutlo Bc.,c.i 
Pt.on"' 2n.n.~ 



Free Aluminum Cassette Library 
WHEN YOU BUY THREE MEMOREX C -90 Cassettes 
at our sale price 
$2.87 
~UdtO SP~C\lL1Sl.~ 
S?\tcs an& scr-v\c( 3\0 nm\c\,\gJn Z'bl-\"1\ 
dudl's speakers who are both scholars and activists. They have written much that is important in this fidd and yet they are very much involved in the non­vioi£'11C£' movt>mcnt. She also said that "The interest of the students is th£'re. Now there is a need for analysis rather than street action and 'civil disobedience." 
PICTURE YOURSELF AS A PAULIST. 

First, 
picture a re­
ligious Com­
munity. A 
Community 
founded by 
an 
can 

in, and for, the 
benefit 
North Amer­
ica. 

Picture 
founder 
was a 
ahead of his 
time. A 
with a vision 
that came true. 
A man 
a belief that 
a Community could be modern 
and flexible enough to meet the 
needs of the Church in every age 
as they arise. A Community that 
wouldn't lag behind the times on 
leaden feet. A Community that 
would communicate through the 
spoken and printed word and one 
that wouldn't be hampered by 
specific activities when new needs 
arise. 
Next, picture the men in this 
new Community. They would be 
flexible. Each one would use his 
own individual talents in his own 
way and would be given the free­
dom to do so. 
These arc the Paulists. The 
modern religious Community. 
Keeping pace with the times. 
Concerned. Involved. 
If you can pi~:ture yourself as 
a Paulist, why not write for more 
information to: Rev. Donald C. 
Campbell, C.S.P ., Vocation Di­
rector, Room No. 400 
paur~Stfcthets. 
415 West 59th Street New York, N. V. 10019 
the 
Page J 
ugliest 
words 

•
1n college! 
QUIZ FRIDAY 

on the next six chapters 
Your average reading speed probably ranges between 150 and 300 words per minute. Graduates of the Reading Dynamics course read and study at least 3 to 6 times faster than that. And the average graduate of our course actually improves comprehension over 10 per cent. 
Thousands of college students are Reading Dynamics graduates, including over 1,000 at Notre Dame, Indiana University, and Purdue. This is the same basic course that first received national recognition when President J<'lln F. Kennddy invited Evelyn Wood to the White House to teach her system to top level staff personnel. Recently, President Nixon's staff took the Reading Dynamics course. 
The best way to find o.ut about the remarkable Reading Dynamics course is to come to a free MINI-LESSON. At this you'll learn what It's like to be able to read and study 3 to 6 times faster. You will see a short, enjoyable movie and have all your questions answered. 
Center For Continuing Education 
Notre Dame Ave 
Attend 

a free mini-lesson. Increase your reading 50 to 100% on the spot. TODAY & TOMORROW 
6 and 8 P·M· 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 

-----------------·--·-··· 

Page 4 THE OBSERVER Monday, January 24, 1972 

FOR INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS CONTACT 
lnPIRG: funds needed to realize its full possibilities 
by Bob Higgins 

This is the conclusion of a two tmrt series on Notre Dame's dutpter of the Indiana Public Interest Research Group. Today !Iiggins discusses organizational Jlroblems unique to the ND campus. lnPIRG is a consumer protection organization organized and run by stud<:nts. 
Organization is moving at a somewhat slo\\.er pace across Indiana than it is at Notre Dame. Twenty of the state's campuses have working InPIRG organizations and at least six will be ready to petition their respective student bodies bet­ween February 14 and March 14. 
The petitioning campuses include Notre Dame-st. Mary's, Indiana at Bloomington, Purdue, DePauw, Rose Polytechnical, and Ball State. 
Bachman hastened to point out that the enrollment of just these six schools could produce a budget of more than $200,000 for next year. Concerning the petitioning drive he emphasized that "Being one of the larger schools in the state, it is essential that Notre Dame have a suc­cessful and productive petitioning drive. The rest of the state seems to be counting on us." 
IUSB profs win lawsuit 
After a lengthy struggle in the federal courts William Fabrycki and Matthew Zivich, members of American Federation of Teachers Local2002, have gained temporary reinstatement to the faculty of Indiana University at South Bend. 
Fabrycki and Zivich were denied tenure in the Spring of 1970. After appeals within the university they filed suit in the United States District Court in South Bend. ThTheir suit was brought on the grounds that they were denied due process of law. 
On November 15, 1971 Fabrycki and Zivich won the first round of their legal battle when Judge Robert Grant ordered the university to either give them reasons for their dismissal and a fair hearing with an opportunity 
Cultural Arts Commission's Performing Arts Series presents 
Boccacio '70 3 Segments Directed by: 
Fellini  
De Sica  Starring  
Visconti  Sophia Loren  
Anita Eckberg  
Tues. Jan. 25  

Engineering Auditorium 7:00 & 9:30pm P.A.S. Admission $1 .00 Patrons Free 
to rebut those reasons or to reinstate them on the faculty. The university officials chose not 
to  give  Fabrycki  and  Zivich  
reasons  for  dismissal  and  a  
hearing.  

The administrators then asked Judge Grant to stay the rein­statement order pending an appeal of the case to the United States Court of Appeals <Seventh Circuit). Judge Grant denied the stay request as did the Court of Appeals and Supreme Court Justices Thurgood Marshall and William Douglas. 
The university restored Fabrycki and Zivich to the faculty on January 10, 1972. 
The university's appeal of the district court's basic decision is not expected to be heard by the court of appeals for several months. 
Petitioning strikes Bachman as a more difficult problem than collection of the fee. "InPIRG can't go anywhere," he said, "until more than 60 per cent of the students on the campus agree to assess themselves, by signing the petitions. Furthermore we will need administrative ap­proval after we collect the signatures, but that would be hard to refuse if more than fifty percent want to be taxed." 
Collection of the funds will be facilitated by having it appear as an additional $1.50 fee on the tuition statement distributed each semester at registration time. Asked to explain this particular method, Bachman stated that, "It's really the only feasible way to collect a fee. The Pakistan Relief Fund (using voluntary contributions of any size) netted only 13 cents per student on the average." Asked if he thought any student would be unable to afford the $3.00, Bach­man replied, "the average student spends $250 per year, on soda, cigarrettes and incidentals and we're only asking for a small percentage of that. However any student wanting a refund will be given one in cash at a convenient time and place." 
InPIRG has the potential to make numerous contributions in both academic and civic com­munities. Primarily it can benefit students in all fields. Economics courses could study the equality of actual property tax evaluation, sociology students could provide the research necessary for long­range projects, and science students could receive credit for studying and leading toward the elimination of environmental problems. 
Secondly, it can provide a new channel for student activism and thirdly it can provide a new type of job, one of public interest, for the professional (Iawyer, scientist, etc.) 
On our own campus, the Nonviolence department is currently offering credit for InPIRG as part of its course work. 
Notre Dame's chapter of InPIRG is beginning now to prepare for itmammouthtask of petitioning the entire student bodies of the two campuses and obtaining 60-70 percent of their signatures. InPIRG will be providing instruction to prospective petitioners beginning next Tuesday at 7:00 PM in LaFortune's Fiesta Lounge. All are invited or asked to call 3827 or 
3610. 
Bob Atkinson Jordan Motors, Inc. 609 East Jefferson Blvd. Mishawaka, Indiana 46554 (219) 259-1981 

RENT·A·CAR 
For students and faculty 21 and over. 
Mardi Gras '72 

Construction Begins Tues. Jan. 25 From 7:00p.m. To 12;00 p.m. We Need Volunteers To Help With General 
Construction If You're Interested Come On Down To Stepan Center Tues. Night Or Any Other Night The Rest Of The Week 
Questions -Call 1689 
INPIRG LIVES! 

Once Established, We Will Organize Projects In The Following Areas: 
Consumer Affairs Corporate Irresponsibility Health Care 
Ecology Race and Sex Discrimination Occupational Health And Safety 
But We Need People To Petition. 

Come To INPIRG Open Meeting Tues. 7 pm In Fiesta Lounge. 
Chuck Hamilton Bill Kelley Joe Hayden, Inc. Romy Hammes Fordland 1102 South 11th Street 244 South Olive Niles, Michigan 49120 South Bend, Indiana 46621 (616) 683-3920 (219) 289-4041 



Monday, January 24, 1972 THE· OBSERVER. 
Fr. Robert Griffin 
Saviour for sale or rent 
Below the theater district on Forty­second street where the body queens dance and celluloid lovers flicker in the lights and shadows of simulated lust before an audience of dozing wines, there stand the church and rectory of the New York parish of Holy Cross. The buildings are too substantial with brick and mortar to seem like ghosts, but they are too cold and lifeless, like warehouse walls, to lift up the heart with a faith that breathes. Inwardly, the old-fashioned church and the out-of­date rectory look like movie sets where Bing Crosby as £<'ather O'Malley can make a eomnwrcial success out of the caroling of gutter-urchins, thereby saving the nuns from the hankers and sending a debt-free pastor on a tee-ra-lee-ra holiday with his sainted Irish mother. 
In former times of greatness, Holy Cross Church was the parish of Fighting Father Duffy, whose screen portrayal was played by Pat O'Brien and whose statue is now a pigeon step in Times Square. During World War II, over twenty five thousand people crowded the church for the weekly novenas services, a disservice to Catholic piety for which the Nazis were never tried at Nuremburg. Now Holy Cross is a parish of parking lots and porno shops. In a store up the block there is an encampment of gypsies who practice harlotry, it is rumored, the the back rooms. Just down the street there is a cluster of massage parlors, and the advertising posters proclaim an entertainment of Live Male Burlesque. 
Last month, on December 19th, I arrived on this inner city scene: El Gordo, the Fat One: the hammer of God, the laureate of loneliness, the scourge of the demons of 
Jim Brogan 
In the inevitable, never-ending search for Truth on the college campus, there is one question that pervades all others. Although this question is mainly the poluted run-off from the endless, comercial river of major holidays, for 3 days following it can be seen overflowing from one quad to another. 
It is a simple question almost rhetorical 
by its very nature. It has become as 
natural a dating at a state school, as 
mandatory as 6 hours of philosophy, and as 
superficial as an SMC freshman. 
The usual scenario reads: 
First Speaker: "Hi, blank. How was the 
old vacation?" 
SPcond speaker: "Great" 
That is the entire ritual, excepting the 
fact that the roles of the first and second 
speaker are generally considered in­
tcrchangable and often in fact are. 
1 am challenging this tradition not 
because of its cherished value, not because 
of its time honored superficiality, not 
because of its maudlin memorabilia, but 
simply because I can never answer 
"gn•at." 
f~ver since 5th grade when an ogre 
diguised as Mrs. Kromher decreed that we 
were all to write a 100 word composition 
mtitled "My Vacation" and I could only 
muster 27 words including my namf', the 
date, and the title, I have despised 
vacations. 
Nothing exciting ever happens during 
my vacations, except if you count rotten 
things. These gallop through my holidays 
with all the friendliness of Attila 's hordes. 
Since this past Christmas vacation was 
about as exciting as a slug with sunstroke, 
lct me point to last year's Easter vacation 
to buttress my thesis. 
Having stolen the heart of a nubile 
Chicago lass after only one date, I' was 
naturally invited to spend the holidays 
with lwr family, and return it to her. I 
arrivcd on Holy Thursday must in time to 
))(' invitcd to go shopping for Easter 
bonnctts. Mumbling that I already had 
mine, I was relegated to babysitting for 
two so-called dogs. 
Tlwse dogs (not to be confused with the smut. For a month, I lived in a basement room that looked out through barred windows on the sidewalks of sin, a closet charismatic, a Jesus-freak hidden in an Pnclave of grace just off the pavements of Sodom and Gomorrah. In the beginning, in the days before Christmas, I wanted to advertise the Redemption in the newspapers: 

To the Flesh merchants of 42nd Street: 
You are cordially invited to celebrate the Pvent when, innocent and sinless, the Word became Flesh and dwelt amongst us ... Dec. 25, 1971. In the end, I discovered there was more saintliness in the streets than in the rec­tory, which is not exactly an original of insight. 
Days on duty at Holy Cross were apt to be busy with calls to anoint the anonymous 
dead at the Port Authority Bus Terminal and with parlor visits from the local odd­
balls. There was, for example, the professional virgin of Eighth Avenue, a street spinster of sixty who dropped by to lament her lost chastity, surrendered within the hour, she said, to a house dick from the Dixie hotel. It was only after comforting this erstwhile veteran of virginity for a while that I realized her heyday as virge intacta had ended long before I was born, and she was only drc>aming of innocence lately lost. I gave her two dollars, hardly a hustler's fee any more, but it cheered her up considerably and gave me a new respect for the therapy of wealth. There was the other quaint soul who said she was Elizabeth Taylor, daughtor of King George VI. Her ovaries she said, had been stolen by Sammy Davis .Jr., whose father is a dinosaur half the size of Forty-second street. Now she needed those ovaries, she said because she wanted to give birth to a child on June lst, so could I make Sammy give them back again'! On Thirty-fourth street, she said they were turning priest into pigs, and Englishmen into rats for the sake of the fur. It's a lousy way to get a fur coat, she said. I agreed, and then stopped listenting, because there is only so much sickness of the mind that I can safely endure. 
Then there was Simon, who lived as a beggar at our gate. Every day he woull! station himself on the church steps and beg alms. He was a nice old man, on speaking terms with the priests of the rectory, all of whom he addressed as Monsignor. Each morning he was at Mass and received Holy Communion. The priests agreed that if you had to a have a beggar at the gate, it was nice to have him a practising Catholic. 
The Rectory was really rather proud of Simon. 
Then one evening, a prostitute came to the door. She had something to give the priest,something that she had bought from Simon for two dollars, something he had taken from the church. The priest on duty opened the handkerchief; inside, wrapped in toilet paper, he found a Host, presumably the Communion Host Simon had received at Mass that morning. 
It was not the first time that Christ has been bought or sold on Forty-second street. Others of us have done so, even at Holy Cross, for simony is the ancient sin of the Church. Perhaps this time the Lord did not mind being sold at the church door; perhaps he felt at home in the hands of that beggar with his odd, commercial way of asserting the value of the Sacrament. Perhaps it was His way of saying, "If you are not going to take of my dear,old Simon then let me be sold in the street at a price cheaper than the wages of a hustler, for one of must look after the hunger and the clothing of that old man." I really have no way of knowing what private arrangements Simon may have had with the Lord. 
As for the prostitute who brought Christ from the street to the rectory, I would like to feel that I had done as much at least once: that sometime I had brought Christ from the rectory to the street in that parish of the parking lots. 
Perhaps, if I had noticed, I would have found Him on the street already, only I thought He was a wino asleep at a dirty movie. 
On Forty-second street. it is not easy to notice that the Word was made Flesh and dwells among us. 

Tale of two dogs 
one I had come there to visit> for good reason ruled the household. The Dober­man pincher had the jolly disposition of a Lassie with rabbies, while the mongrel "puppy" appeared to across between a turkey buzzard and a Mongolian yak. Each had its own private room--the pincher's contained a couch, a TV, and a slot machine, while the puppy's domain was only a deed to the kitchen. Each of these rooms had not only sturdy doors, but sliding fences to keep the canine quadrupeds out of the living room. 
My four hour cat nap set the dogs to growling but their's was drowned out by that of my stomach, and I ambled into the kitchen. There I managed to open a can of alphabet soup, only to have it attacked by the mongrel. Because of all the letters I can only surmize that it thought it was a mailman. 
After this beast, <which I had dubbed 
Anacin because it was a combination of 
ingrediants), finished lapping up the. so~p, 
it souped up into my lap and began hckmg 
the gravy of my plate. It was then that I 
rralized that not only was this dog not 
house trained. it wasn't even gravy 
trained. 

While 1 sat there doggedly, this orphan 
dog (you see it had a paw, by no ~~.) 
slipped through the fence into the hvmg 
room quickly foolwed by Bill the Dober­
man pincher. 

They proceeded to race around in such 
furious circles that I concluded that they 
eould only be watchdogs and they were 
winding themselves .. The frivolity quickly 
came to a halt however when Anacin upset 
its own stomach, and surrendered its lunch 
all over the carpet. 

Never being one to loose my head during 
a crisis, I calmly walked to the stairs, and 
with the alacrity of Pegasus flew up the 
stairs. packed by hags, slipped on a sturdy 
burnoose, and bolted out the back door. To 
this day I have never regretted that craven 
decision to swap this dog's life for a nor­
mal boy's life (a Saturday Evening Post, 
and a year's subscription to Time). My 
conscil'nce is put at complete rest when I 
think of the note !left in the living room. It 
said simply\ "My pup runneth over." 

-\ 
.
~lI 
J . 
T.\-~ 
. '\ 
/; \-1\\\\ 
1 

I;-Ir · r '\, 
I 

WSND's 'Contact' 
This week WSND is resuming their series, CONTACT, to be broadcast each night, Monday thru Friday, from 10-11 P.M. over the FM station. Our guests and topics for this week are as follows: 
Monday: 
Tuesday: 
Wednesday: 
Thursday: 
Friday: 

Guests: 
Topic: 
Guests: Topic: Guests: 
Topic: 
Guest: 
Topic: 
<iuest: Topic: Members of the Alcohol Information Center Mrs. Rosemary Lough, director Mrs. Pat McCaffery, chairman of the Junior 
League Alcoholism Committee Mr. Richard A. Muessel, former alcoholic Alcoholism as a Disease 
Prof. Charles Rice of N.D. Law School Prof. Thomas Poulson of Zero Population Growth Forum on Abortion 
Sr. Patricia McNeal, Co-Ordinator of the Conference on Conspiracy and Dissent, to be held here on 1-27 and 1-28 
Mr. James Forest, Chairman of the above meetings and co-chairman of the Harrisburg Eight Defense Committee 
a) the Conference on Conspiracy and Dissent h l the non -violence movement 
HPgular Thursday night guest, University provost James T. Burtchaell 
not yet known 
Prof. John Matthias of N.D. English Dept. Prof. Matthias -the man and his poetry 

Page 6. TilE OBSERVER 
Room for more children 
Child center expanding 
by John Kloos Things seem to be going well for the Day Care Center located in the St. Mary's Clubhouse. According to Lynne 1\lastriana, who organized the service, twenty-five families now use the center. · The center was established during last semester to care for the children of married ND-SMC students. Miss Mastriana emphasized that there is still plenty of room to accomodate more children. The center is licensed to handle twenty children at one time. Presently, there is no time during the weekly schedule that this limit is reached. 
There are no major financial problems in sight for the center. !'he center is planmng to hire a full time administrator to take over the managerial duties, now taken care of by Miss l\1astri<•rw and one of thE' full-time staff members. 
'The program for the center is basically the same as last semester. The center is open from 7:00a.m. to 5:30p.m. and car£>s for children between two and one-half and five years of age. The day is divided into an afternoon and morning session. Families can sign up for one or both of these periods for any day of the week. 
The sessions consist of free time for physical exercise and play and two hours of structured time. The structured time can be spent in a Montessori section, science class, or an art class. 
The staff consists of three full time lllernbers and student voluntt>ers. The full time staff m£>mbers arc wiv£>s of Notre Dam£> graduate students, while the stud£>nt volunteers have been r£>cruited throu[;!J the education and psychology departments of Saint Mary's. Students having experience in these areas who wish to volunteer are welcome to call the Day Care Center to arrange an interview. 

Those wishing to inquire about the services of the Day Care Center should call 284-4317 on wt>ekdays between 7:00a.m. and 5:30p.m. 
lots more room for kids like her 
(upper photo)  at  the  Day  Care  
Center  in  the  SMC  clubhouse  
(lower  photo),  says  organizer  
lynn Mastriana.  



Kennedy to file non-cCDldidacy 
<cl l!li~ Ncw York Timcs News Sen·ice 
Portland, Ore.,--As things now 
stand Sen. Edward M. Kennedy's 
name will be missing from the 
ballot in 23 of the 23 presidential 
primary states because he in­
tends to file affidavits of non­
candidacy. 
But in Oregon, where primary day is May 23, the Massachusetts democrat will have nothing to say about it. The decision whether or not to place a name on the ballot is left by state law solely to the discretion of the Secn~tarv of State. Oregon's secretary of state is Clay Myers. a liberal republican. 
As a result of watching Ken­nedy's standing in the polls, and by rating the amount of national magazine attention devoted to his activitiE's, Myers is inclined to put KE'nnedy on the ballot. 
"Ho\'· would that hurt Ken­nedy?" Myers asked. 
"If it turns out he's really not a candidate and he do£>sn't come lwre. people won't vote for him. If he's a late bloomer, then the p£>ople of Oregon can vote hirn up or down and we don't have to kave it up to the whim of the eandidate or the scheme of some campaign manager." 
Tile Oregon Ia\'. was amended in 1969 to eliminate the affidavit 

of non-candidacy because, as Myers explained it, the Oregon legislature tired of people saying they weren't candidates--such as thE' late Adlai E. Stevenson in 1960 and Gov. Nelson A. l{ockefeller in 1968-only to start running later. 
Q
In the view of regon
Politicians, it is just possible that. if the democratic race has not been resolved by late may, and a substantial number of candidates are still active, an unauthorized or semi-authorized Kennedy campaign could gather momentum--even though oregonians have historically prE'ferred candidates willing to l'OmP ht>re and work for their votes. 

Th£> prospect is sufficiently alarming to the backers of Sen. (;Porg£> McGovern of South Dakota. One of McGovern's local managers, Normal L. Lindstedt. a Portland attorney, wrote Myers last summer asserting that the inclusion of KennE-dy's name on tile list of candidates would "rend£>r the •Oregon primary indfPctiv£> and meaningless." 
Much of what ultimately happ£>ns in Oregon will depend upon what happens in the 17 primari£>s that precede the one lwre. 
At the moment, even those who support his rivals concede that Sen. EdmundS. Muskie of Maine is ahead here. Robert Straub, the State Tr£>surer, who is one of Muski£>'s stat£> chairmen, said Muskie is strong here "basically b£>caus£> h£>'s Oregon's kind of guy--liberal but a little eautious." 
V2 PRICE COLOR PRINTS? 
SAVE ON SLIDES -MOVIES-B&WPRINTS, TOO 
This low price saves you up to 50% over usual "drug store" prices, 
rushes high quality color prints back to your door in just a few days. Try 
the film service used on many mid-west and southern campuses. 
SO EASY, SO CONVENIENT ... just use your own envelope and the coupon below. Fill in name and address, write name on roll or cartridge, enclose coupon and remittance. Or, use the coupon to get film mailers and dis­count coupons; order film and flashes at low prices ... a better deal than "free" film. Savings and processing quality guaranteed. 
: YOUR ORDER MUST INClUDE THIS COUPON-
•
• 

• Name_·--------• 
• Address ______ •
•e City-· _____ _ State_ •
•

• rJ Send me free ftlm mailer envelope and discount Rll· Price You,~, • 
e coupon 0 12 exp Black & 1'/~itt 1.29 .99 • e 0 I'm enclosm~ __ rolls of f1lm and paymenllplus 0 20 exp Black & l'l~ile 1.99 1.55 
lax in o~ o) 0 20 e~p. Slides or 8 mm Mov~es 1.49 1.22 •
1 

• [] 1am enclostng an e,.tra l'S¢ per roll lor erpress 0 Send me fresh Kodacolor fllm and/or !lashes e e handltng and hrsf..;tass m;HI relufn f~~~!:!~~~r ~~~~izl~\lz~w~ lZO _ Sl'Q. SBe each • • Rea. Price You'"'' Ctrt.:le your flash: !limit two sleeves) 88t each • 
e 0 12 e~p Kodacolor $2.99 $2.33 Cubes-AG·l-M·2-M.J e • 0 20 exp Kodacolor 4.49 3.55 Mag•cubes .$1.19 each • 
• MAIL TO: SPE-0-PICS ·Box 299 ·Cincinnati, Ohio 45214 ·Dept. ND • 
~ • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • A • A A A • a A a a 
Spring Semester STU DENT SPECIAl 


15" Color TV 2.1 Cubic Ft. Refrigerator Both for only 
$29.95 -month less than $1 .00 a day 
19"Biack & White TV 

2.1 Cubic Ft. Refrig Both for only $19.95 -month less than$.66 a day 
Rented Separately 15" Color TV $24.50 -month 19" Black & White TV $14.50 -month 
2.1 Cubic Ft. Refrig $7.50 -month 

Only Monthly Rentals 10% Discount For Full Semester Payment 

2022 South Bend Ave. 272-5483 
Is this the :J~th President~ oft~he United Sta.tes! 
~'Bt•fort• 
Chap1mquiddit•k 
*Tht• Pnrf~ -sft•p-b~·-sfl•p 

ACADEMIC COMMISSION 
Needs People For Second Semester Get Involved In Such Projects As The Mock Convention Help Set Up For This Year's Political Speaker 
Meeting On Wednesday, Jan. 26 at 7:00 pm In 
Academic Commission Office -4th Floor -LaFortune 
*I:MK-b~· bis rt•t•ord 
*TPdd~ .;and fht• mt•n around J.;wk 
*ThP "Tt•dd~· C.;abinpf.. 
*Six ('rist•s in fht• lifP of t:MK 
':'ThP KPnnt·d~· Chnrismn 

Don't mi~~ this probln~ analyrd!i4 of tht• non-<·andldate ·who may be the mo~t import.ant man in the 1972 ele<•tion. 
(>•·• ~ ..-... ; ... ~ , .." 

t't•bruar,· 1C~q I.a...,.,_&,... on salr 

....---------------------------­
Monday, January 24, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 7 ... 
Irish sweep pair at Minnesota 
hy .Jim Donaldson casions, they let three-goal leads 
~ third period, gave Notre Dame a St,orts Editor lw whittil'd to one goal margins. ' :-.-o bulge. Nyrop fed Green at the Fr<'shman John Campbell got blue line as hl' broke down the left 
Th£' Irish hockey team found 
lh<• Irish attack going with a side and the Irish co-captain put a its£'lf in a "must win" series 
powl'r play goal late in the first ' ~ 't high shot past Hastings.against Minnesota over the 
J>l'riod. Campbell gained Rrad Buetow finally putW<'t>k£'nd in the Twin Cities so 
possl'ssion of a loose puck 10 feet M innl'sota on the scoreboard 4:31coach "Lefty" Smith's club did 
to the Jpft of Minnesota goalie into the period and Doug Pelletierwhat had to be done and swept a 
Doug Hastings and backhanded made it a 5-2 game at 6:46, firing pair of games from the Gophers 
lh<' disc through a crowd and into a shot from the point past thehy !l-4 and 8-3 scores. 
the net at 18:27. Williams was screened Tomasoni. Th<' victories, worth four points 
credited with an assist on the Pl'lletier's score came whileapi£'ce. gave the Irish 22 title play.
points and enabled them to climb some help the thl' Gophers had six skaters on
With from lhl' ice to Notre Dame's four.
from Pighth to fifth place in the <:ophers, Notre Dame moved into With the Irish a man short
W£'stern Collegiate Hockey 
a :l-0 l!:'ad early in the second Minnesota coach Ken Yanke!'
Association. 
session. Bill Green intercepted a 
deperately trying for a goal:Th£' Irish are now 7-7 in league had Minnesota pass in the slot pulled Hastings in favor of a sixth play and 1\-9 overall. The and fired a slap shot that 
attacker and, on that occasion, 

<:ophl•rs arc buried in the caroml'd off a Gopher defen­his strategy paid off. WCHA cellar with a 3-13 record sl'man and past Hastings at 2:54. and are only 4-16on the year. L<'ss than two minutes later, Williams boosted the Irish back 
Notre Dame the loosely .John Noble passed out from into a four-goal lead at 10:52,
won playl'd series opener 5-4 on b!:'hind the Gopher net to Regan hrPaking into the clear after l''riday night, sparked by goalie in front of the cage. Hastings taking a pass from Bumbacco who
Dick Tomasoni, made 31 tried to clear the puck away with -and sliding the puck under stops, and came back to trounce his stick, but instead, deflected it Hastings who had come out of his th£' <:ophers on Saturday 8-3 as into his own net and Regan was cage in a vain attempt to stop 
Williams.

Ian Williams, Paul Regan and crPditl'd with the tally. Bill <:rt>en scored two It didn't take Minnesota long to
goals Soph dt>fenseman Steve Curry scored one of Notre Dame's eight goals It took the Gophers only 16 apit>c£' and Tomasoni, with 32 bounce hack. With Campbell in as the Irish downed Minnesota 8-3 Saturday night to complete a sweep seconds to get the goal back,sav£'s, was again outstanding in the pmalty box, Mike Polich of their Wt>t>kend series with the Gophers. however. as Cossalter tallied to 
lh<.' nl'ts. faked Tomasoni out of position make it 6-3. That was as close as Th£' Irish didn't play well and then fed Cal Cossalter, who gave the Irish another three-goal Notre Dame into a lead it never Minnesota was able to come the
whipped a ten-footer into the rl'iinquished with a power play
Friday night hut they still came bulge by pumping home what rl'st of the way. despite the fact 
out on top. twine at 6:21. proved to he the winning tally at goal just 1:47 into the opening that Yankel continued to pull his
Just over three minutes later, 10:21. Larry Israelson slid a JWriod. Bill Nyrop started the
Both clubs played sloppy goalie when the Irish were
Coss;iltcr picked up his second pl'rfect pass to Conroy 12 feet out scoring play, making a pass from
hock£'y and th£' Irish had penalty shorthanded and the Gophers
goal of the game by driving a 25-on a three-on-two break and the the right point to Ric Schafer in
prohl£'ms as well, being whistled controlled the puck in the Notre
foot slap shot into the Irish net frl'shman notched his fourth goal the corner. Schafer then fed
for 14 off£'nses to Minnesota's Dam£' l'nd.
with both teams a man short. Noble in the slot and the junior
of the season.
five. 
The Gophers refused l'l'nt£'r beat Minnesota goalie Tomasoni and the Irish defense 
"That's about as poor a, hockey D!:'spite nine Notre Dame to quit, Doug Hastings with a 15-footer proved £'qual to the challenge
though. Pete Anderson scored a
game as I've seen," coach JWnalties in the period, the and, one point, managed to
into the upper right corner of the at
power play goal at 14:23 and John
"Ll'fty" Smith said afterwards. t:ophers were unable to come up 
rwt. keep the Gophers at bay, despite 
Matschke beat Tomasoni at
"I could have gone out to the with the l'qualizer and the Irish !wing outmanned, six skaters to18:55, but the Irish hung on to Sixty-two seconds later, PaulMinnl'haha pond and seen a took a :l-2 lead into the final three defenders and the able
win. BPgan pumped in Notre
h£'tl<'r gaml'." p<.'riod. 
Tomasoni.

Daml''s goal,
With five different players Noble made it 4-2, 6:48 into the It didn't take long for the Irish second taking a pass from Jim Cordes about 10 Minnpsota was finally "bur­doing lh<' scoring, the Irish led all period. hanging in a rebound of a to assert their superiority 
feet out with his back to the net, ned" by their daring tactics at
the way. although, on two oc-hard shot by Regan. Pat Conroy Saturday night. John Noble put 
spinning. and scoring. 14:09 when Regan shot the puck almost th<.' length of the ice into
The Irish were thwarted for the th£' Gophers' untended net.
Cagers meet No. 2 Marquette 
remainder of the period by HPgan gained possession of theHastings but wasted little time in puck in the ll'ft corner and, after 
hy .Jm• Passiaton• Dame basketball teams. Since McGuire's son Allie is a starting adding to their lead once the controlling the rubber with some
lh<.'ir series began, Notre Dame guard and his success as a s£'cond period got underway. 
nifty stick work, he skated behind 

Volatile AI McGuire brings his has used Marquette as somewhat playmaker proves that he's not f)pfenseman Steve Curry picked his own and, he came
net as untwatl'n, high flying Marquette of a punching bag. The Irish have out there because of parental up his first goal of the year just 17 around the cage, sent the puck

Warriors, 14-o, to the Convocation hPaten Marquette 52 times as love. Marcus Washington fills out seconds after the opening faceoff, into the Gophers' net at the op­<'<>ntPr after publicly blasting his romparl'd to only 18 defeats. the quintet and the 6'1" drilling home a wicked slap shot posite <.'nd of the rink.
players. Digger Phelps counters Marquettl' doesn't like to miss sophomore guard is already from the right point. with a :J-8 squad that he has any opportunity to gain a lwing heralded as the next Dean <:reen completed the scoring at 
measure of revenge. MPminger. Th£' Irish tallied another goal in Hi::~2. stealing the puck at thevoicl'd nothing but respect for. It lhl' period, at 16:42, as Williams blue line and skating in to beatmakps for an unusual situation McGuire still hasn't forgotten Against all these guns, about lll'at Hastings in a power play Hastings with a high shot.
whl'n the two teams meet tonight his last Pxperience in the Con­all one could expect of Notre situation. Ed Bumbacco and
at Pight o'clock. vocation Center when Notre Daml' would be to go into the Notre Dame will return to 
Campbell were credited with
DamP and Austin Carr upset the contest loose with the feeling that hom£' ice next weekend, hosting
At this juncture in the cam­assists on the play.
Warriors 96-95 in a double they have nothing to lose and the league-leading Wisconsinpaign it appears that the Irish ovl'rtiml'. The loss prevented PvPrything to gain -the luxury all Another power play goal, this Badgers in a four-point series cannot l'scape a losing season 
Marquette's from one by Bill Green, at 2:47 of the Friday and Saturday nights.
and the only way to salvage the 26-3 team underdogs are afforded. 
participating in the Midwesty<'ar would be to spring an upset division of the NCAA finals.
on onP of the powers that remain 
Frosh trounce Ball State, 92-77
Marquette was extended an aton th<• schedule. It almost hap­larg£' invitation, but this onlypPnl'd last Thursday when the msultPd McGuire, who took his by Vic Dorr scorl'r for Notre Dame with 18 Ind., converted 23 of 28 freeIrish gave nationally ranked 
!Pam on to victory in the NIT in Pl'te Crotty, the 6-8 center on hit throws. but they hit only 27 of
lluquesm• a scare. If Notre Dame points. Clay on eight of 15 
N<•w York. Notre Dame's freshman from the field and two of five th£'ir fi9 shots from the floor (38
knocks off spcond-ranked 
Finally there was last year's haskl'tball team, surprised from the line, and did most of his p<'r eentl.
Marquette. Phelps will l'arn 
incidPnt at Milwaukee when visiting Rail State by going to the scoring from the 18-20 foot range. Bobby I<'aulkner paced Ballhirnsdf the title of miracle .Johnny Dl'e pulled one of th~ hoop parly during Saturday's And as impressive as it was, Stall' with :JO points on ten fieldworkl'r and the team will have "dass" moves of all tim~. Dee matchup between the two teams, lhl' Brokaw-Clay due might hav.e goals and ten free throws, and hepulll'd off an upset more 
astounding than last year's was familiar with Marquette's and th<.'n Gary Brokaw and hl'l'n Pven more effective had was followl'd by teammates prp-gaml' routine of shaking Dwight Clay picked up whatever lh<•y playl'd the entire game. Larry Eaves, who had 19 points,
ambush of UCLA. All this may be 
hands with thP opposing coach, slack rpmainPd and guided the Brokaw. though, was saddled and Rill Janes, who collected 10. 
so rouch wishful thinking, 
onl' of Mc<;uirc's gimmicks, so Irish to a !!2-77 victory. with his third personal foul with Notre Daml''s superiority on
however, as Marquette has 
11 liPn llw Warriors Pxtended their Tlw win was the second in a five minutes remaining in the lh<.' scoreboard was also reflectedl)('aten tougher teams than Notre 
nands had packet row and fourth against three first half, and he sat out the rest in lh<.' n•bound totals. The IrishDame on the road, with l.::ouLh Dl'l' a of mustard for Pach of them, letting lossl's for Coach Frank of that p!:'riod. And both he and oulrl'hounded Rail State 41-25,Carolina being the most notable tlwm know by implication that he 1\kLaughlin's freshmPn, who will Clay sat out the last five minutes and lhl' versatile Rrokaw (13example. The Warriors will not thought lh<.'y wPrc just so many continul' their current home of lhl' gam<'. as lhl' Irish subs set rebounds l ll'd both teams in this 
be taking Notre Dame too lightly, 
hot dogs. ~land with a fi:45 showdown this out to protl'ct a 27-point cushion. l'atPgory. Pete Crotty grabbPdhowever. 
A:-;idl' from thl'Sl' psychological .lrtPrnoon against the Marquette Clay. Rrokaw. and Crotty sPvl'n caroms and BPdford Rruno 
A key reason for this would be frosh unit. six for ND. while Janes 18l,
n•asons. the Warriors also supplil'd mueh of the firepowerMc<:uire's incessant attempts to prl'sl'nt five very physical MtPr Crotty's l'arly offensive for Coach McLaughlin's squad, Eavl's <7\, and Faulkner (-\\ led spur his team on to greater 
rl'asons to dim Irish upset hopes. ~purt. Brokaw and Clay wPnt to hut th<•re was support from other lh<• visitors in the rebound performances. In the aftermath 
.Jim Chones, the 6'11" center, will work anrl put on a show which quart<'rs. too. li-:~ Redford Bruno, d!'partnwnt. of a WPak victory over Loyola in posl' the biggest problem since dPiigh!Pd the sparse crowd at the \l'ho was a pPrfect six of six from Ball State was :H before their Milwaukee, McGuire fumed, "I Notre Dame met UCLA's Bill AthiPiil' and Convocation C<'nter. tlw fil'id and a nearly perfect run-in with the Ll'prechauns, and think there have been too many Walton. Bob Lackey, a 6'6" Brokaw. who finishl'd with 17 tl1rl'l' of four from the line, tlw Irish will be attempting to 
scouts and parents talking to my points. wPll below his :lO-plus spoil another imprl'ssive record
forward, usually gets whatever finishl'd with 15 poihnts. Tom 
players. What's happening is that whPn they tangle with the Baby
rPbounds and tip-ins that Chones avPragl'. k<•pt the pace of the Varga had ninl'. and substitute the bodies came out on the floor doesn't. Larry McNeill is the Irish offensl' alive hy dealing out Dan <:Phhart added ten more. Warriors tonight. Marquette's and twPnty minutes later their other forward and he's 6'9". With II .tssi~ts. Anrl <'lay. who missed llvl'rall. the Irish wpre :m of 72 frPshnwn are unbeaten in seven hPads have to be carried out." all this height against them, llw first p;ut of the season from lh<' fidd (!)2 percent> and starts. and one of the wins in their 
.. 

Then, too, there is the fact that Willie Townsend and Gary Novak hP<'allst' of an injurl'rl finger, was \\1'1'<' lfi of 22 (72 p<•rcent> from strpak came last week in has never been any love lost may appear at times to be lost in ~·qually l'ffpctiv<'. tlw lirw. B;~ll Stall' didn't fare as !\1ilwaukPe, whPn they toppled lhl' Irish frosh 86-80.
hl'!ween the Marquette and Notre a forest of seqouias. Coach Tlw :)-11 guard was the high wt'll. Tlw visitors from Muncie, 



Page 8 _________________________ _!!IE_OB~EI_lVEIJ_ ___________ _ Monday, January 24, 1972 
ND receives $542,019 in research awards 

The University of Notre Dame has accepted $542,019 in awards for the month of December to support research, educational and service programs and new facilities and equipment, ac­cording to Dr. Robert E. Gordon, vice-president for advanced studies. 
The largest award was $100,000 from the Fannie E. Rippel Foundation of Neward, N.J. to support research on "Certain Aspects and Causes of Heart Disease." Dr. Bernard S. Wostmann, professor of microbiology, is the principal investigator in the study of 

Minorities lectures scheduled 
• 
Several noted educators will participate in an American Minorities lecture series beginning next month. Each will spend two days on the campus and deliver three talks on "Socio· Political Conditions and Liberation Movements" of their minority interest. 
One lecture in each series will be an evening event and will be open to the public without charge. 
These talks will be at 7:30p.m. in the Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Dr. James Turner, director African Studies and Research 
Center at Cornell Ithaca, N.Y., will participate in the first discussion on Afro-Americans February 10. Others include Dr. Eduardo-8eda Bonilla, director· of Puerto Rican studies at Hunter College, New York City, February 16; Dr. Maria Babin, chairman of the department of Puerto Rican studies, Herbert H. Lehman College, Bronx, N.Y., March 15. 
Also, Henry Santistevan, executive director of Southwest Council of LaRaza, Phoenix, Ariz., and an expert on the Chicano movement, April 5; Dr. 
SMC holds activities 
•
s1gn-ups 
The new SMC program for athletic and recreational ac­tivities will hold final signups tomorrow, Campus Ministry Director Fr. Roger Cormier announced yesterday. 
The program, including some twenty-seven activities, is being conducted under the auspices of the campus ministry, dean of students, and the phys. ed. department. 
Some of the activities included in the new program include: karate. skiing, auto-mechanics, camping. yoga, bowling and fencing. Students head the Yarious clubs as well as college staff members, and interested South Bend residents. The only costs involved are for the activity itself as in the case of bowling. 
~*********AA*A***
the staff 
night editors: maria gallagher, 
jim roe (we got by with a lot of 
help from our friends) 
free advice: joe abell, john 
abowd introductions: t.c. (james jones, i 
presume?) movies: anthony abowd underfoot, etc.: mcdermott, corso, ellis, hunt, debbie, helen,

.. 
peggy, marty, donaldson, john 
brady, diane "Lefty" 
***..~************1 

cholesterol buildup and its relationship to diet and age. 
Awards  for  research  totaled  
$283,994,  inclu ding  thP  above  
grant and:  

--$57,500 from the National Science Foundation <NSF) for research on "An Approach to Large Scale Dynamical Systems" by Drs. Ruey-wen Liu and Richard 'Saeks, professor and associate professor of aerospace and h1echanical engineering. 
--$42,105 from the NSF as an institutional grant for science. 
--$30,626 from the John A. Hartford Foundation for a study of "Longevity and Senescence in 
The chairman of the lecture the Black Studies program at series, Dr. Joseph W. Scott, University of Maryland, April 13; 
Masry Berry, acting director of 
associate professor of sociology Dr. Jose Angel Gutierrez of the 
and director of Notre Dame's Institute of Latin American Black Studies program, said Studies at University of Texas, 
future series, which are open to Austin, April 19; and Dr. Bart 
students for credit, will include Landry, Purdue University 
discussions of other minorities sociologist speciializing in Afro­
such as women, American Americans, April 27. 
Indians and Jews. 
ENDS 

OPEN DAILY 12:45 TUES. 
University, ..-----• 
MADAM SATAN 

MORRISeuJtC 
AUDITORIUM Monday 
South lend, lndiono 
2 Shows Only 6:30 & 9:30 

(;crmfree Hats" by Dr. Morris Pollard, director of the Lobund Laboratory. 
--$30,000 from the U.S. Navy for research on "Buckling of 'Cylindrical Shells Under Pr.essure" by Dr. Lawrence H. N. L<'e, professor of aerospace and nwchanical engineering. 
--$21,663 from the National Institutes of Health for a study of "Cellular Aspects of the Mechanisms in Ab Synthesis" by Dr. Albert A. Nordin, associate professor of microbiology. 
--$2,000 from the Sun Oil Co. as a grant-in-aid to the department of chemical engineering. 
$100 from Corley B. 

McFarland, M.D., as a graduate fellowship. 
Awards for educational programs totaled $248,025, in­cluding: 
--$115,073 from the NSF to support a summer institute in <'arth sciences, administered by 
Hev.  Michael  J.  Murphy,  
chairman  of  the  geology  
department.  

--$75,010 from the NSF for a summer institute in chemistry, administered by Dr. Emil T. Hofman, dean of the freshn1.111 year of studies. · --$48,492 from lhe NSF for a sum mer institutP in physics administerPrl h" nr Rnhert 
SMORGASBORD 
Every Mo.nday 5-9 pm $1.25 All you can eat 
Every Wednesday evening $1.00 PITCHER NIGHT ANU LIVE ENTEHTAINMENT 
Every Friday night 
.LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
Every Saturday night 
POLKA BAND·DANCING 
Open Weekdays 11 a.m. ­
LAUREL &HARDY 
PIZZA PALACE 
4ti10Western Ave. Belleville Shoppin2 Center Phone 289-7Q83 
Anthony, professor of physics. 
--$9,000 from an aonymous donor for an "Interterm workshop in Economics" ad­ministered by Dr. Dennis J. Dugan, chairman of the economics department. 
--$450 for the James A. McCarthy Scholarship fund in civil engineering, donated by three faculty in the department. 
The Collegiate Jazz Festival received $1,000 from the National ~"l>-luwmeut for the Arts. 
The Art Gallery received art­work titled "Tiahuanaco Pon­cho" valued at $9,000 from Mr. And Mrs. Everett McNear. 








