------~----------------·------------------------------------------­
Inside 
fire guts regina room 
... page 8  
editorial  on  the  new  
calender  
... page 4  



Vol. VI No. 95 serving the notre dame -saint mary's community Wednesday, March 8, 1972 



Brinkmann says 
CAC debt not as 

bad as it sounds 
by Don Ruane Observer Executive Editor 
Admitting partial contract mismanagement, Cultural Arts Commissioner Bob Brinkmann said Tuesday that CAC potetial debt has been blown out of proportion. 
Brinkmann, in reply to Student Government Treasurer Cass Rejent's statements of Feb. 29 that the debt might be whittled to $1,600 by the year's end, said there are good signs that deposits totaling $6.250 will be returned, that a projected loss of $1,000 has been eliminated, and that much of the remaining debt could be eliminated by a series of films the commission is attempting to schedule. 
"If we do finish in red, it isn't going to be that much," he concluded. 
Explaining the mismanagement claim by Rejent, the commissioner said the mistake may be that the CAC deals with smaller booking agencies which "care for the artist," and can provide cheaper deals. Since the agency is small, and "legitimate," according to Brinkmann, its money is invested, and it is hard to get deposits returned. 
Rejent complained last week that the CAC signed contracts without protecting itself with an escape clause. As a result, according to Rejent, Neil Young was able to cancel because of illness, and Sea Train could raise its fee $2,5000 after deposits totalling $6,250 had been placed. 
Brinkmann said negotiations to return the deposits appear promising, and claimed there are no contracts providing the CAC with escape when it involves a live performer. 
Admitting this leaves the CAC unprotected, Brinkmann added that this situation exists with both large and small booking agencies, because live performers are placed on tours and a cancellation would cost the agency money. 
The treasurer also claimed Brinkmann has "unilateral control" over all contracts. The commissioner's answer is that he must approve all contracts for the CAC, as does each commissioner for his own area. 
When asked who reads a contract before it is signed, Brinkmann said the commission member handling the contract not only reads it but also signs it. It is then given to Brinkmann, who generally rubber stamps the smaller contracts, but reads the more expensive ones before approving. 
No other check for inconsistencies is made within the Student Union, according to its director, Bill McGrath. If legal problems arise an attempt is made to solve them through correspondence, before the Student Union turns to Phillip J. Faccenda, University Vice President and General Counsel, for legal aid. 
Most contracts are cosigned by someone from the Student Affairs office, usually the assistant vice president, Fr. James L. Shilts, according to Brink­mann. 
(continued on page 3) 
Announced by UAC 


1972 -73 schedule starts classes early 
by Jerry Lutkus Observer News Editor 
The University Academic Council has scheduled the 1972-73 school year opening for Thursday, August 31, and removed the ROTC departments from the College of Arts and Letters placing them administrativelv under the Office of the Provost. 

The earlier opening date for the fall semester is necessitated by an eight-day Thanksgiving break and a three day weekend October 14-16. 
University ProvostJamesT. Burtchaell explained that the longer semester was necessary because, "We felt a break would be advisable." This is the second year that the University is on its present schedule and, as Fr. Burtchaell noted, "This is the first time we've had a semester without a break and it is fatiguing." 
semester still short 
According to Fr. Burtchaell, the semester as it stands now, has too few class days. Even with the addition, he said, it still will be only 70 days. 
Fred Giuffrida, student member of the Council, claimed that presently the first semester was "too long." "The people needed a break. Since a lot of people go home now anyway, they might as well have a week at Thanksgiving." 
The assurance that the dorms and library will be open over the break was given by Public In­formation Director Richard Conklin. But Guiffrida disagreed. "We want to make sure the place is open over the break, but they didn't make that sure yet." 
Further University reasoning was provided by Leo Corbaci, dean of administration. Corbaci related that the new move by the University is part of a marked trend by colleges and universities for pre-Labor Day openings. 
two breaks in spring 
The calendar calls for the first semester to end December 14, and be followed by a week of final exams. The University reopens for the spring session on January 14. Two breaks will provide respite during the second semester, March 9 to 19 and April18 to 24. The last class day of the semester is May 8, again followed by a week of finals. 
Yesterday's Observer published the calendar for next semester as it had been released in the 1972-73 Academic Bulletin for the College of Business Administration. The only essential differences between the published calendar and yesterday's 
release are the starting date has been moved from August 29 to August 31, and the three day weekend has been added in mid-October. 
student response negative 
Student opinion on the change has been negative. Guiffrida confirmed that a group of students are considering the University to change the calendar back. He feels, however, that change is "not probable." 
Academic Council or the Administration would have to change their minds and that is not likely," he stated. 
In other action, the Academic removed the ROTC program from the College of Arts and Letters. The department will now come under the jurisdiction of the Office of the Provost. 
Fr. Burtchaell claimed that the move was "for the sake of efficiency." He explained that a very minor percentage of ROTC members were in Arts and Letters, and that ROTC subjects didn't qualify as A&L subjects. "Originally, they were put there for convenience," he noted. 
The College seems to have grown too large for one dean to handle now, Fr. Burtchaell claims. 
The Council also dissolved the Institute for Studies of Education, and moved the Graduate Department of Education into the College of Arts and Letters. 
Fr. Burtchaell said that his move was also one for the sake of efficiency. The programs will now report to the deans of Arts and Letters. 
(continued on page 8) 





---------~~---------------------------------------------------------------·--------------------------------------------------­
Tokyo--Emperor llirohito of Hapan said during an interview that he on campus today would welcome a visit to Japan by President Nixon. The comment could not be regarded as an official invitation, since the Emperor 2:00 billiards tournament, adheres to his role as a constitutional monarch. An official invitation semi-finals, basement of would have to come from the head of the government, Premier Eisaku Iafortune. 


-world briefs 
(c) 1!172 New York Times 
Sato. 

New York--Mayor John V. Lindsay revealed the names of the people who have contributed $489,804.35 to his presidential campaign. The vast majority of the 1,010 contributors are from New York City and include some of Lindsay's relatives, municipal labor leaders, real estate men and city officials and their wives. 
Washington--The Defense Department announced that it is establishing a department-wide program to treat its estimated 150,000 alcoholics. In announcing the step, a department spokesman called the program a landmark, since it was the first time in the history of the military that alcoholism was being treated as a disease. 
New York--Police using trained dogs found a bomb concealed in the cockpit of a jetliner less than an hour before it was set to explode. The Trans World Airlines plane had made an emergency landing at Kennedy International Airport after a telephone caller had warned of the bomb and said that four T.W.A. planes would be blown-up at six hour intervals unless he received $2 million. 
Plans for An Tostal presented to HPC 
by Anthony Abowd Successful contests from past 
Plans for 30 events for An years will be repeated this year. Tostal Weekend, Notre Dame's The best SMC basketball team spring festival, were presented at will play next year's varsity the Tuesday meeting of the Hall basketball team. This series is President's Council by Fritz currently ti~ up with one win Hoefer. general chairman of the apiece. Championship touch weekend. football also will be featured. 
This year's An Tostal will be Many new events are a1so held from April 20 through April planned. Animals under twelve 
22. inches will race each other in 
"An Tostal is Gaellic for front of the South Dining Hall. 'merry making' and that is what The First Annual ND Roller the weekend is all about. It is the Derby Tournament is planned. biggest social event on campus in A special track for this event will spring," Hoefer said. be constructed on the GameS" 
Hoefer aims to appeal to as Field between St. Joe's hall and much of the student body as u.s. 31. possible. In past years An Tostal Friday night, April 21, will 
has drawn large crowds of feature a variety show using spectators and participants. campus talent. On Saturday Everything is free. The HPC has night, April 22, the "Irish Wake" budgeted $1,800 for the weekend. will be repeated at the South 
"The weekend is geared to Bend Armory. getting people outside and doing Two events which gained An crazy things. All the money is Tostal Weekend national spent to see that t)le students 
(continued on page B)
have a good time," Hoefer siad. 
LAFORTUNE 
RENOVATION 


CONTEST 

$50 -first prize $25 -second prize 

For best plans utilizing student center space. Plans to be used 
next summer  
for info. contact:  Student Affairs  
vice-pres.,  
asst. vice-pres.  
or  
Ed Ellis 7663  

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

4:00 ward-phillips lecture, dr. william arrowsmith, the modal nature of character and action in drama; euripides' alcestis, library auditorium. 
4:30 lecture, prof. franklin long, "chemistry and society," rm. 123 nieuwland science hall. 
6:00 meeting, sailing club, 204 engineering building 
7:30 lecture, dr. ralph gusman, university of california, santa cruz, engineering auditorium. 



FRANKIE'S 
EVERYDAY DINNER 
SPECIALS -Ocean Perch $1.25 -1 0 oz. Rib-Eye Steak -V2 Broasted Chicken  $1.50 $1.50  
Includes Tureen Soup, Salad,  

Bread, Butter And Coffee 
btianoole 
jim)'eSter 
ted blueche.l 

THE ASSOCIATION 
Free Door Prizes 14 stacks of 100 45's Total of 1400 oldies 
Beetles Neil Diamond Lovin' Spoonful Elvis Presley 
Rolling Stones 
Sergio Mendes 
Carole King 5th Dimension and more... 
Presented by: Rick Kanser & The Social Co 111 mission 
Stepan Center March 18 8:00pm $3.50 
The Association will play two 1 hr. sets 
Tickets go on sale Thurs. March 9 in the dining halls 
Buy your's early-There's a limited amount. 


----------~----------------~ 
Includes coronation, inaugural ball 


Kersten announces plans 
by Larry Dailey King R. Calhoun Kersten, 
S.B.P. elect, has announced "definitely tentative" plans for the upcoming months after his succession to office on April Fools Day. 
"A coronation has been planned to take place in Sacred lleart Church sometime after the spring break. In addition, we are arranging an Inaugural Ball at LaFortune Student Center and are contacting St. Mary's in search of a chamber orchestra." 
The Prime Mover also an­nounced that, contrary to popular rumors, "no official ap­pointments have been promulgated. We are going to have to declare martial law first," he explained. 
The newly~lected S.B.P. has received national news coverage since his victory last Thursday. NBC television film clips have been aired in Pittsburgh, Chicago, and New York City. f<'ront-page pictures have ap­peared in newspapers of both Hichmond, Va. and Omaha, Neb. 
Kersten confided, however, that his greatest personal feat was the appearance of his high school graduation picture on the front page of the Ft. Dodge J\1rsst>nge•·, the King's home · town. "My grandmother is very proud of me," he boasted. 
As usual. the Prime Mover stated that he has been in daily communication with God, but "He's not really helping me very much these days. In fact, I'm seriously beginning to think that Satan was involved in this all the time. and that I was actually misled." 
As of yet, there have been no assasination attempts upon the King's life. "However, I have received several threatening 


Kersten: No official ap­
pointments until martial 
law established. 

messages," he complained. "The cryptically lettered notes bear the messages 'The King is a fink,' and 'Beware of the Ides of March!' " The Prime Mover assured us, though, that all security precautions are being taken to insure his safety. 
BrinkJnann: CAC finances OK 
(continued from page 1) 
Fr. Shilts says he reads them "very fast," for certain points before signing. He said he or the vice president signs all contracts involving the Student Union. Large contracts involving the Athletic and Convocation Center are sent to the facility's managing director before approval is given. 
Brinkmann, however, said Tuesday that some contracts are not signed by the Student Affairs office, but are accompanied by a "cover letter" vouching for the financial feasibility. 
Fr. Shilts, who is an assistant professor of physics, and Brinkmann, an arts and letters major, differ on another point of contract procedure. 
Brinkmann says the usual 50 percent deposit is sent with the contract. The only prior commitment is a verbal one by the booking agency to send a contract for a performer with a specified price and time. If the contract is different, then it is returned, he added. 
Fr. Shilts claims a deposit is sent before a con­tract is signed. It accompanies a similar statement signed by the booking agency. If the contract is different it may be cancelled, and a request is made for the return of the deposit. 

Rejent has been searching for ways to to get the CAC out of several contracts since Christmas, after he found them filled with escape clauses for the performers, but not including an out for the Student Union. 
When asked if the contracts are read, Rejent replied, 'they just read the name, the cost and time evidently." 
The treasurer said the contracts should be signed by someone in the student affairs office since the documents are with the University and not the Student Union. He said he would recommend that his successor arrange this step. 
Reji:mt claimed part of the "fault," stating, "I've seen them going past my desk all the time." Brinkman said Rejent has nothing to do with the signing of contracts, at least with the CAC. 
•

The CJF IS• CODling: 
Wednesday, March 8, 1972 
3
the observer 


·Sea Food -pleasant surroundings 
CLOSED MONDAYS 
Daily & Sunday 11 am till 9 pm Saturday 11 am till 10 pm 

on your term papers? 
We have Electric Typewriters $9-week Manual Typewriters $6-week Adding Machines $9-week 
(Daily and monthly rates available) 
TV Sets and Mini Refrigerators at surprisingly low rates, too! Also roll away beds for that extra guest 
on weekends 
10%.Discount with student I.D. 



·<AHf~Nf1( ~~ ..­

Swing along with the best this weekend at the Collegiate Jazz Festival Thursday, Friday and Saturday March 9th -11th 
-Thursday night March 9th at 7:30 in the Center for Continuing Education; free jazz symposium featuring Roberta Flack, Aynsley Dunbar, Dan Morgenstern, James Aebersold, Hubert laws and George Russell 
"Swing" times scheduled for Friday, March 1Oth and Saturday March 11th in Stepan Center 
Friday, March 1Oth -7:30 pm -admission $3.00 
Saturday, March 11th -1:30 pm and 7:30 pm afternoon session $2.00 evening performance $3.00 pass to all sessions $5.00 
tickets available at the door, or at the Student Union Ticket Office or at the dining halls 
"it's a musical happening you can't afford to miss" presented by Student Union's Cultural Arts Comm. 
the observer 
THE 

AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
OBSERVER  John Abowd Editor-in-chief  Jim Jendryk Business Manager  
Don Ruane  Bill Bauerle  
News: 283-1715  Executive Editor  Advertising Manager  
EditoriaI: 283-8661  I  

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer,Business: 283-7471 
on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment 


The New Calender 
The new academic calender has exams preceed the Christmas break, arrived and, unfortunately, some of the Thanksgiving vacation will remain revisions leave students out in the cold nothing more than a tease vaction. Most 
again. Many universities are moving students will simply not enjoy the respite towards the August starting time but they because the time will be used to catch-up have realized that opening classes in on subjects that fell by the wayside August cuts summer jobs short almost during the football season. No one can two weeks. To compensate for the loss of enjoy a vacation with three term papers 
revenue in these two weeks, most schools due the next week. that start early finish by the end of April. If the first semester is going to be 
divided by a long break and a short one, it 
Summer Jobs is much more realistic to put the 
"vacation" in the middle of Oc­
Not so atND. Although the financial aid tober(perhaps an extended football week­
office expects the summer employment end) and leave Thanksgiving as the four 
of students to cover about one third of day tease right before exams. their upcoming expenses, the school has allowed only twelve and a half weeks to Changing it 
raise this cash. That's about $100 a week in savings--no easy task by any means. The Academic Council has 
seven Many summer jobs start June 1 and run student seats. The Student Government until Labor Day. These are contract Academic Commissioner holds one and 
arrangements and it's going to be dif­the others are divided between the ficult to get one of those jobs if the student various colleges and graduate schools. 
On a council of about 40 members thesehas to come back to South Bend in the last 
week of August. votes are not enough to reverse any Here's the catch. Universities that decision. On the other hand, the petition close by May 1 have only the usual two­that some students have begun cir­
week break at Christmas. Since culating to get the calender revised Christmas jobs are generally harder to should force the issue--especially in find and short-lived, the trade-off bet­terms of the lost money from short­ween a shorter Christmas break and a circuited jobs. 
longer summer vacation favors the The request is reasonable--provide students when the second option is taken. some means to recoup the lost funds This is even when more apparent con­caused by the shortened summer 
sidering that. no academic programs vacation. It deserves some type of con­exist for students to use the extended crete public answer either a revision of Christmas vacation for independent the calender or financial compensation study. for a job that couldn't cover school ex­penses because it was unnecessarily Thanksgiving shortened. If you agree, sign the statement. It's a stalemate until students The other vacations are not problem­show concrete disagreement with the free either. As long as first semester new calender. 
John Abowd 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Letters ... 
Real Campus Security? 

advisory committee established degradation of human sex and 
Editor: by the administration is that we human dignity: 2. It is ironic --if 
The statement of our Provost, must wait to consider the not a bit hypocritical --that as quoted in The Observer security problems on next year's someone like Fr. Toohey, who (March 6, 1972 -page one), freshman women before con­takes pleasure in shooting at such regarding security on campus sidering the problems of this safe targets as Madison Avenue,
boggles the mind. If indeed year's graduate women. has not spoken out against these "there is no evidence that it's Perhaps next year we ought to adds which are obviously evils unsafe on campus" then I would wait to see what security <'xisting in his own back yeard. suggest that the recent in­problems will exist for If you can overcome what is stallation of lights on campus sophomore women. Maybe that apparently your paranoia referred to by Fr. Burtchaell committee will think it more concerning criticism directed indicates fiscal irresponsibility advisable to wait four years so toward the Observer, it would be on the part of the administration. that women alumni can also be appreciated if you would print
Of course there is such evidence considered at the same time. We both my original letter con­and Fr. Burtchaell's statement is can't be too hasty you know. cerning as well as this letter. directly contrary to fact. It is a 
Devotedly yours in N.D., For a "fair " press,typical administration attitude to Edwin K. Isley J.L. Wilkdeny the existence of problems in Graduate Student
this best of all possible academic Stupid People worlds. Perhaps if someone Editor:
Porno Ads 

rapes Fr. Burtchaell something Concerning the letter in your will be done about security. Editor: March 6, 1972 issue from John 
The security committee of the I .ast week I wrote a letter Hickey in which he claims that Graduate Student Union has which you apparently were the smartest Catholic women and labored throughout the school afraid to print. It concerned your men will never be stupid enough year to improve the security running of the ads for por­to attend Notre Dame or St. situation for graduate women on nographic movies, and the gist of Mary's: Itwould seem to me that campus. Results of these labors the letter was twofold: I. It is the fact of Mr. Hickey's being a have been completely nil due to ironic that the Observer which student here proves his point. administrative blindness and foot assumes a high moral posture at Sincerely, dragging. The position of the new other times sees fit to promote the Joseph Abell 

Minstrel of the Dawn 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
• 

merger mus1ngs 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIII Jim McDermott 
If Fr. Neil McClusky understands the feelings of the Holy Cross Sisters, they consider the present freshmen the most radical in the schooL If letters received by the Observer are any indication, a good portion of the class is proud of the designation. 
Radical seems the worst term that could be used for the freshman however. Where a radical seeks basic structural change, the freshmen are only demanding what they were promised in their acceptance materials. They were assured that they would be able to receive Notre Dame degrees, since the projected date for completion of the merger would be the 1975 academic year. Now they are told that if they want a degree from Notre Dame, they should immediately apply for a transfer. 
If they do apply, however, they join a crush at the admissions office. Present SMC sophomores have received little if any co-operation from this office. Several women report that they are not even able to schedule an interview. And the announcements of acceptances seem to be taking as long as the fall of an empire. The transfer situation is only a part of the confusion left to students in the after-math of the come-and-go unification of Notre Dame and St. Mary's. The amount of information that students have been given is almost insulting in the questions it leaves unanswered. The separate announcements that Notre Dame and St. Mary's released on the future of the co-exchange program did not clear the issue. 
Will the rules for co-ex electives be changed? Co-ex majors now seem much more difficult, or impossible in many cases. There had been no word yet whether electives will follow that trend or remain as they have for the past two years. In short, the continuing negotiations 
between ND and SMC are not making the student side any  more  
rationaL  Students  are  not  participating,  people  are  not  com­ 
municating.  The  principle disagreements  seem  to  be,  as  ever,  

finances, student life and regulations, and the psychological aspects of changing an institution that has existed for 125 years. 
The finances may never be solved until the two schools are willing to sit down and try to agree. Similarly, student life, especially for women in the University, will be a source of separation until the ad­ministrations finally reach agreement. There is no sign that any such agreement is near. 
The psychological aspect of the merger is perhaps the most difficult. St. Mary's is the residence of many retired members of the Holy Cross Order. They are used to having the college. It is not an intentionally malicious, grasping claw, but it is one grown familiar over years. And it isn't going to let go of the College until it knows what the ultimate situation will be. 
The Staff 

Night Editor: Jack Frischkorn Layout: Joe AbelL Maria Gallagher Headlines: Don Biancamano Pictures: Bob Hughes Day Editor: Bill Sohn Typists: Mark Niederkorn, Pat Kenney, lucy Rodarte, Barb Nor­cross, Ann Druecker Night Controller: John Brady News Editor: Jerry lutkus Managing Editor: Joe Abell 
St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Edi1torial Editor: Jim McDermott Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Features Editor: Rod Braye The Editorial Board consists of: John Abowd, Don Ruane, Joe Abell, Jim McDermott, Jerry lutkus, Maria Gallagher, Jim Donaldson, Rod Braye Cath: nothing worth having ever comes easy. not everything is apparent, m; just the important things. 

Wednesday, March 8, 1972 the observer 
Fr. Robert Griffin 

a letter to someone who cares 

My dear Fr. Griffin, Monday's Observer contained a letter which disturbed me to some extent, in that I cannot answer it adequately myself, and thus, turn to you for assistance. The missive I refer to questioned how one can bear the titles of Christian and gay simultaneously ... That is why I ask that you answer the letter for me, for others questioning how Christianity feels. I know it will be difficult for you, but it would be a great help to many of us ... 
"One who cares" 
My dear Someone: 
You are indeed relying on the strength of a broken reed when you ask me to describe the "official Church stand" on homosexuality, and I would not even at­tempt to answer your letter, if I were not touched by your apparent faith in a priest without credentials as a theologian or as a very heavy thinker. But because you, as well as a number of others. have asked, I feel obliged by responsibility to offer personal comment on the plight of the Christian homosexual. I warn you that these views are not to be confused with Pope Paul's or the teachings of the Council of Trent. If you should hear that I have been consumed with fire from heaven, or that I am being shunned by the Brain Trust of the Paraclete at the Faculty Bar, think gently of me as a false prophet who is biting the dust of fools. 
In regard to official Church teaching, let me make two ooints: (1) it is pretcy _gril'llin its condemnation of homosexual practices. (2) At any given point in history, the official Church attitude is about 25 or 50 or 100 or 500 years behind the viewpoint of 

joe morkosek 

contemporary theologians and Christian intellectuals." and more especially, of the rank and file of the people of God. Even­tually, the Church catches up; but in­stitutions destined to last until the end of time never seem to be in a rush for relevance. 
Apropos of the letter suggesting that the phrase "Christian homosexual" is a contradiction in terms, my initial reaction was to think less well not of homosexuals 
but of the Christianity that fails to un­
derstand that the Redemption of the Lord 
can accomodate itself to all manners and 
conditions of men. I am willing to concede that there is no Christian way in which one can be a child-molester, unless one is willing to baptize the aberrations of a sick psyche. But recent studies seem to be little the fact that for some in­dividuals, homosexuality is neither a sickness nor a neurosis; they seem destined by nature to operate by homo­erotic drives. Thus it would appear to be the mission of the Church to study the evidence in an attempt to relieve, if possible, the dilemma of the gay folk wishing to live out a commitment of Christian love. Even when viewed as part of the mystery of human suffering, it would seem thoughtless of God to equip his sons and daughters with sexual appetites ' entirely natural to them, which they can use only under the penalty of being outlaws to his love and grace. What God has made, God can accept, it seems to me, and so also can the Church. 
It is not illuminating to quote St. Paul in this matter. Ripping Bible verses out of their context and beating them as though they were the war drums of God is a game by which Christians have confused each other for centuries. Paul did not un­derstand homosexuality any more than he understood women, hairy old misogynist that he was. May I suggest, among other contexts, that he was writing to neophyte Christians, often still close to paganism, who lived in an Empire which was sick with its own sexuality; homosexuality was one of the moral illnesses among people who gave themselves up to indiscriminate perversions simply as a way of exploiting the pleasures of the flesh: Nero castrating a young athlete, then marrying him as a wife; Augustus as a sexually impotent old man who entertained himself by deflowering virgins by puncturing their hymens with his fingers. With sketches like these as a background illustrating the decadence of the upper class of the City, t·ead the opening chapter of the Epistle to the Romans, where Paul writes of God's anger with the pagans who have turned to unnatural practices, and you may con-elude that it was not a Gay Alliance group that he was concerned about 
The Bible as a handbook of moral theology has its limitations. Moral theology must constantly adjust itself to a 
contemporary understanding of the nature. credentials can stop worrying about the of man. Otherwise there could never be the distress of the children of the Lonely change in the attitude of the theologians, in Kingdom harassed by Bible students who their treatment of birth control and themselves are victims of textual per­masturbation, that we are presently versions. witnessing. Dear Someone Who Cares: I do not in­
llopefully, somewhere, the dialogues tend to endlessly harass this campus with have already begun that will help to build a commentaries on the plight of the bridge between the Church and the homosexual, but writing these words for twilight life of the gay world, so you. if they helped, was a pleasure. threatening and mysterious to many of us.· May Christ give you His peace, and may In our time on this campus I want to hear the love of true friends always be your the conversations between the men of faith; comfort. God bless you forever. Amen. 




a historian's historian 
What does it mean to be a historian? I'm a history major-but am I a historian? What has three years of historical study knowledge transformed me into? Ob­viously, an inconsequential dribblist. No doubt about that. When it comes to flinging trivialities around or the profusion of common dribble, then I am a prolific prodigy. But am I educated? Does anyone really care? Is it not folly to be wise? Perhaps, but yet the struggle within myself continues. The merits of my en­deavors must l>e hidden. Let's have a look. 
The question which immediately pops into the average coconut is: What the heck can one do with a knowledge of the past? !he answer to that question is amazingly JOCk. Allow me to enumerate just a few of the more popular careers standing wide open for the crack dribblist. 
1) Bartending (called · mixology by science majors l -The mechanics of this profession are easily learned by spending a few days behind a bar and watching the pros mix drinks. However, the gutsy stuff like listening to family problems, sports, and politics should only be handled by a deft dribblist. Also, the BeeEssing under fire that a mixologist must go through is no job for an untrained blabber. 
2) Jingle Singing -Well, somebody's got to do it. Besides, the field is wide open. How many jingle singers do you know? 
3) Sewing Name Tags on Bulls -This profession calls for an immediate propensity for propelling the proper tags on the prospect while lying in a prostrate position. This is extremely important if the bull is to maintain his credibility within his peer group. Imagine the snorts and snickers if El Toro walked into the stable wearing Bossy's identification. That would be like Walt Patulski wearing Ben Gay's number. 
4 l Go on welfare -This is the most and the men of science. What is needed most by the gay community of Notre llame --and by those ~;ho try to open to them the possibilities of faith-is a marriage between the Wisdom of ancient insight and the contemporary evidence of research upon which the Spirit of God has breathed. Then a priest of limited 


the bull pen 
common profession for dribblists. The hours aren't bad and commuting costs are cut considerably. I am personally taking a slightly different option. I plan to go on Medicare and work when I'm sixty-five. 
5 l Teach -Oh how gross! 
True History Grit 
-The Roman Emperor Commodus, who wrestled as a hobby, was assasinated when his political enemies paid his sparring partner to strangle him. 
-French soldiers on their way to the battle of the Marne in August 1918, were shuttled from Paris in the most unlikely of all military vehicles, the taxicab. 
-George Washington, upon assuming his duties as first president, requested to be addressed as "His Mightiness." 
-The Roman emperor Caligula ap­pointed his horse consul of Rome (Kersten take notel. 
-Hank Aaron, home run king of the 

, Atlanta Braves, makes as much money per year <Approx. $200,000) as the President of the United States. This is obviously a gross injustice. When did Nixon ever bat.300. -Rumour has it that William Howard Taft, President of the United States 1908­1912, once got stuck in the White House bathtub. The 300 pounder was also the first Prexy to toss out the first baseball at a major league game. -The legend that the Emperor Nero fiddled while Rome burned is almost certainly false. The fiddle was not in­vented for at least another thousand years. Reports have it, however, that Nero was an excellent bagpiper. Perhaps he played the Victory March during the con­flagration. So there you have it. Some interesting dribble that I bet you didn't know about. 
McGovern second in New Hampshire 
Muskie takes New Hampshire primary 
by Bill Kovach 
(c) New York Times Manchester, N.H. --Sen. Ed­ward S. Muskie won the New Hampshire Democratic primary 
Tuesday night in the face of a strong challenge by Sen. George 
S. McGovern. 
On the republican side there was no serious disaffection from President Nixon to either Rep. Paul McCloskey on the left or Hep. John M. Ashbrook on the right. 
Heavy voting in the Democratic primary throughout the state saw what began as a fragmented five-candidate field turn into a two-man race between Muskie and McGovern. Muskie's victory was built on a steady, even showing statewide that was just as evenly cut into by McGovern. 
Lagging far behind the leaders in the Democratic Primary were Sen. Vance Hartke of Indiana, Mayor Sam Yorty of Los Angeles, Edward T. Coli and written-in candidate Rep. Wilbur D. Mills of Arkansas. 
The blue-collar wards of Manchester, the state's largest city, provided the first surprise in the early returns. Muskie, with the support of most regular democrats, had been expected to score heavily in these ethnic wards. Returns from key precincts, however, had Muskie and Mcgovern splitting the vote almost evenly between them. 
It was in these wards in 1968 that a write-in for President Johnson denied Sen. Eugene McCarthy a victory in the New Hampshire primary. 
Muskie swept the coastal city of Portsmouth, where he had been identified as a friend of the large naval shipyard there, and generally showed strength along the eastern edge of the state of Maine. 

Another core of support ap­peared in the North Country town of Berlin, where a three-to-one Muskie vote smothered speculation that organized labor in that industrial town had been split by his opponents. 
As a statewide picture emerged, it was clear that 
Association plays lor charity 
General Meeting 
by Joe Powers 


for those interested in working on 
The Association, a group of musicians voted the Best Pop Hock Recording Artists of 1967, 



AN TOSTAL
will appear at a benefit concert in Stepan Center on Saturday, March 18. 
Rick Kanser, an off-campus 

WEEKEND junior who has organized the show in cooperation with the N.D. Social Commission, announced 
Apr. 20~21-22
that all proceeds will go to a unique experimental education progtam presently being 

in Off-Campus center LaFortune 
organized in the Chicago area. The plan, initiated at the high school level, would abolish all 

Thursday Night 8:30 
exams and set courses such as English, history, and music; and their replacements with what 
The Association: Pop
Kanser termed "inter­
group to appear at 
disciplinary education." Instead 
Stepan Center for ex­




COPIES UNLIMITED 
of teaching divided and 
peri menta I education 
categorized disciplines, "all 
program.information will be provided at one time in an attempt to make 

Quality and fast service is the main facet of copies unlimited. learning more relevant." Kanser added that teachers in 
The Xerox 3600 III copier used in copies unlimited is the fastest and best the program would be provided 
reproducing machine made. 
with mini-busses to be used for 

W<' specialize in any short run order you may have. 8¥2 x 11 and 8¥2 x 14
bringing students into contact 

paper is used in copies unlimited. This paper is especially made for the
with the educational facilities of 

3600 III. While going through the machine the toner is fused into the
universities in and around Chicago. 

paper to prevent smearing, fading and cracking. Half tones and solids Due to the benefit nature of the 
;1 re remarkable in quality. Call 233-9471 or come up to suite 402 Whit­concert, The Association has 
comb-Keller Bldg. and ask aboutthe other services we offer. 
agreed to perform at a special rate. Kanser predicted a $5,000 

Office hours: Mon Thru Fri 9-5, Sat 10-4 Emergencies after hours
profit if the show is a sellout. 
ca II 232-9834.
Since their inception seven neither of the three other can­didates--Hartke, Yorty, or Mi1ls had caught on. There was little evidence to support the widely held theory that the conservative 1\Janchester Union Leader newspaper could deliver 15 per cent of the· vote. Only in some Manchester wards did the paper's candidate, Yorty, come close to such a percentage. 

The national implications of the race were reduced by the fact that several other major Democratic competitors were absent from this primary, in­cluding: Sen. Hubert H. Hum­phrey of Minnesota, Sen. Henry 
M. Jackson of Washington, Mavor John V. Lindsay of New York, Rep. Shirley Chisholm of New York, and George C. Wallace of Alabama. 
It was not clear Tuesday night who would win New Hampshire's delegates to the national con­vention. Because of the length of the ballot, only preferential primary votes were counted early and ballots for the 20 Democratic and 14 Hepublican delegates to the national con­ventions will not be completely tallied until Wednesday. 
McClo.skey's showing against the !'resident in the Republican primary did not seem likely to pa'ss the 20 per cent minimum he 
said  was  needed  to  carry  his  
challenge  outside  New  Hamp­ 
shire.  

McGovern's clfml:i above the 25 per cent he had set earlier as a target was offset somewhat by his past-minute predictions of a 
'close race. 
years ago, The Association has received 8 Grammy nominations, including 3 for their arrangement 
of  "Cherish,"  the  number  one  
recording of 1965.  Other gold  
Admission  for  the  8  p.m.  

concert at Stepan will be $3.50 per person. 


RECORD SALE 
Time: Mar. 9 & 10 Place: 133 Hayes HeVintage:  aly OLDIES  Cost: so~ Condition: ( 68-72)  New  
Such nostalgic artists as  

Henri Mancini The 5th Dimension The Platters Aretha Franklin 
The Sup!'"emes Ike & Tina Turner 
Frank Sinatra 
Simon & Garfunkel 
Dionne Warwick 
Ray Charles 

Engelbert Humperdinck Frank Valli Stevie Wonder 

~---------------------------~~--------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, March 8, 1972 the observer 
Irish playoff picture looks bleak 
Denver thrashes ND 7-2; leers need six-goal victory to stay alive 
by Jim Donaldson Notre Dame outshot Denver 22-
Peluso closed out the scoring at Sports Editor 11 in the first period but wasn't 8:32, registering his second goalable to outscore the Pioneers, and of the game on a wicked 18-footWCHA champion Denver 
the teams left the ice tied 1-1 after slap shot.
exploded for four goals in the first the first twenty minutes of play.

ten minutes of the second period The Irish had the game's first The Irish were unable to cut and went on to hand Notre Dame good scoring chance when Peluso into Denver's margin the rest of a 7-2 setback last night in the was whistled off the ice just 1:33 the way and tonight face the opening round of the league after the opening faceoff but were difficult task of having to defeat playoffs at the Denver U. arena. unable to convert. the Pioneers by six goals if they are to keep their championship
Bob Young scored two goals Instead, the Pioneers were the and Tom Peluso and Mike first team to get on the hopes alive. Lampman each contributed one scoreboard. Rick Bragnalo put Notre Dame, which finished inin the middle session as the 
Denver in front with 7:02 gone, a tie for eighth place during thePioneers broke open a 1-1 game. firing a rebound shot over fallen regular season, now has a 14-19The two clubs will meet again Irish goalie Dick Tomasoni and record.tonight in the windup of their into the left side of the net. total goal series and, if the Irish Tomasoni made fine stops on In other WCHA playoff action, are to advance in the tourney, Brian Morenz and Bob Krieger Michigan Tech upset Wisconsin they must win tonight's game by seconds earlier but the Irish in Madison, 2-1, Michigan State 
a six-goal margin. weren't able to clear the puck and topped visiting Minnesota­The game will be broadcast by Bragnalo finally lit the red light. Duluth, 4-2, and North Dakota 
breezed past Michigan in Grand
WSND at 9:55. The Irish came back to tie the Forks.
score on a tainted goal a littleThe Irish managed to stay 

Paul Rt'gan scored his :lOth goal of the year last night on a penalty shot
over two minutes later while

close to Denver for one period Denver was shorthanded. Paul but tht' Irish were unable to generate much more offense, dropping the Marx, Gatewood
before the superior speed and 

npt'nt'J' of their two-game, total goals playoff series with Denver, 7-2, in
Hegan started the scoring play byscoring punch of the Pioneers 

Colorado.
dumping the puck into the (Photo by Joe Raymond) named Academicdecided the issue. 
Pioneer zone from mid-ice. The but were unable to capitalize on season, continued to besiege theKennedy featured disc took a wierd bounce off the their man-advantage situations. Irish net and were rewarded All-Americans 
lively boards at the D. U. Arena with a fifth goal at the halfway
But the Pioneers didn't waste 

and caromed out to John Noble in Two Notre Dame football
many scoring chances in the first mark in the period. Lampman
at B-ball banquet the slot, who fired a low wrist half of the second period. Mter did the honors this time for the players, All-American receiver shot past Denver's surprised Tomasoni stopped Krieger on a Pioneers, with an assist from Ed Tom Gatewood and 1972 co­
J. Walter Kennedy, Com­

goalie, Ron Grahame. Hays. captain Greg Marx, have been
breakaway in the second minute
missioner of the National 

Both teams had power play named to the 1971 University
of play, Young gave Denver a
Basketball Association, will be Regan picked up Notre Dame's 
opportunities later in the period Division Academic All-American
lead it never relinquished at 3:03 last goal of the night, making athe featured speaker of the 1972 first team selected by the College with a slap shot from the blue line nice move to score on a penaltyAnnual Notre Dame Basketball 

WCHA Standings Sports Information Directors.
Banquet on Thursday, March 16. that bounced past the Irish shot near the end of the second The Irish have had 13 players
The dinner, honoring coach Final Standings netminder. period. Regan's tally cut Den­
W L Pts GF GA honored with first team selec­
nigger Phelps and his staff, and Denver..... . 19 9 54 148 I~ Young added his second goal ver's margin to 5-2, but that was tions since inception of the honorthe varsity cagers, will be held in Wisconsin . . . .... :!0 8 48 134 87 with 5:14 gone, putting a 10-footer as close as the Irish could come. 
squad in 1966.
North Dakota . . 18 10 44 130 109

the Monogram Room of into the net from a tough angle. Palmer upped Denver's lead to
Michigan State.. 15 13 42 119 103

theAthletic and Convocation Minn.·Duluth ..... 15 13 40 129 123 Peluso made it a 4-1 game at 8:28, Gatewood, a senior co-captain
6-2 with 2:15 elapsed in the last 
Michigan . . . . . . .. 12 16 32 108 163 taking a pass from Rob Palmer and the holder of every Irish
Center beginning at 6:30 with a period, stealing an errant Irish
Michigan Tech ... 11 15 30 120 124

social hour. and moving in to beat Tomasoni. career pass receiving record,
Notre Dame... . 10 16 28 120 121 pass and moving in to score while "This will be the first op­Colorado College. 11 17 28 140 165 Denver. the top scoring club in both teams had two men in the was also named to the first team 
Minnesota . . . . 7 21 14 83 132 as a junior. Gatewood, among 12
portunity basketball fans in the the WCHA during the regular penalty box.
WEEKEND RESULTS . college football players receiving 
area have had to personally Notre Dame 8-6, Michigan State 9-2 

.------------~...,..---------.......,~-----~ a National Football Foundation
welcome Digger and his Minn.·Duluth 8-4, Colorado College :).10
assistants, Dick DiBiaso and 
Denver 4-6, Wisconsin 2·2Frank McLaughlin to the com­Michigan :).4, Minnesota 3·3 munity," said Athletic Director North Dakota 1>-4, Michigan Tech :;.3 
TllESDAY·WEDNESDAY
Edward W. Krause. "We feel we 
PLAYOFFS
have the finest young staff in Notre Dame at Denver college basketball and we are Michigan Tech at Wisconsin 







OBSERVER.
Michigan at Noitfi Dakota
proud to have them as 
Minn.-Duluth at Michigan Slate 
representatives of Notre Dame's athletic program." In addition to Kennedy, James 

Green, Regan 
SPORTS 
Cooney, Executive Director of the Notre Dame Alumni 
Association, will serve as Master to lead icers 
of Ceremonies. 
scholarship, was also awarded a NCAA post-graduate scholarship, the 24th recipient from Notre Dame in the past seven years (including 16 football players). 
Marx, a 6-5, 255 pound defen­sive tackle who helped anchor the Irish defense last fall, is one of three juniors selected for the academic team. Marx, a physiology major, has a 3.7 grade average while Gatewood, a sociology major, has a 3.6 mark. 
Juniors Bill Green and Paul 
Tickets for the banquet , which Hegan were named co-captains
include pre-dinner refreshments, Coaches speak out on Frosh rule
of Notre Dame's 1972-73 hockey are $10.00 each and may be or­team at the icers annual awards 
dered by writing to the Basket­banquet at the University Club by John Fineran Royal agreed with Bryant, sized school. I had no feeling oneball Banquet Committee at Notre 
Saturday night. In last week's article, the commenting, "I'm afraid it way or the other about it," name. 
In addition to being elected co­collegiate basketball coaches of would hurt the freshman, since I Parseghian stated. captain for the second year in a the NCAA voiced their opinions feel that during the first semester Hockey Stats row. Green was also voted as the concerning the ruling which he should get his feet on the As far as freshmen playing on 
next year's Irish team, Par­Pen· club's best defenseman for the would allow freshmen athletes to ground and play a freshman seghian listed three things whichPlayers Gms G A Pts Min second successive year by his play varsity basketball for four schedule rather than get lost on 
Noble,c ..30 17 42 59 17·42 might hinder them. "First, they 
teammates. years. Their reactions were the varsity squad." 
Williams, w . . ... 29 25 29 54 23-46 will miss spring practice. In the 
Regan, c .......30 29 23 52 33-66 "The team respects Bill an mixed. Some, like Adolph Rupp Both Bryant and Royal were 
fall, they must go throughBumbacco, w ....32 23 26 49 4-8 awful lot," Irish Coach Lefty of Kentucky, favored the ruling. 
strongly against the ruling, but
Campbell, w . . .. 32 12 23 35 14·38 orientation which means they
Smith said of the Roseville, Others, like John Wooden of
Green, d ......32 5 19 24 22·44 said they would use freshmen. 
will miss valuable time prac­DeLorenzi, w ....31 10 13 23 9-18 Minn., standout. "He's a UCLA, strongly voiced opposition They also believed that it would ticing. Finally, they must learnNyrop, d ...31 3 18 21 22·44 tremendous leader-by-example, to the NCAA decision. 
present no problems to their
Conroy, c .......24 6 11 17 !-4 our system," Parseghian added.
the kind of player that inspires In the conclusion to this two
Keating, w . . ... 15 8 9 17 2·4 teams. Concerning the rule in 
Cordes, w __......32 7 7 14 8-16 others to emulate him." part report, the football coaches But the Irish coach had strong 
general, both coaches took dif­
Schafer, d . . ...32 6 7 13 11·22 
"Paul is also the quiet type of of some of the NCAA colleges and opinions concerning the 
Steinborn,d .....31 I 11 12 7-14 ferent approaches. Bryant 
CulT)', d .......... 28 I 10 11 32·64 leader," Smith continued. universities voice their opinions concentrated on the financial scholastic aspect of the ruling. .Jsraelson, w, . " ...32 4 3 1 . :).10 . "Together, they should lead this concerning the freshmen ruling . He disagreed with Bryant, Royal, 
aspect of the ruling.
Undsey, c ... : ... 10 I 3 4 ().0 
team in a very business-like Joe Paterno, head football and Paterno on this point.
Larson. d. . .. 32 0 2 2 1:).38 "Generally speaking it may
Bonk. c..... . ...24 0 I I 1·2 manner. We hope we can foster coach at Penn State University, help some of the small school's or "First, the freshmen in everyTomasoni, g......22 9 I I ().0 this attitude--it's the philosophy stressed the adjustment of the 
Tanlani, w ....... 11 0 1 I 1·2 institution's budgets," Bryant college scrimmage the varsity.
M. Bonk, d ....... 5 0 0 0 ().0 we feel necessary for a winning incom.ing freshman athlete to 
replied. They have practices and a
Maison, w . . . . . . 4 0 0 0 ().0 program." college. 
Howe. w . . . 4 0 0 0 ().0 schedule of their own. Besides,
Two other players were also "Generally, I'm against the Royal, however, showed 
Cunha. w . . . . . . . I o 0 0 ().0 they compete in other sports at 
Bench 1·2 honored at the banquet. rule because it makes it tougher concern more for the freshman the varsity level," ParseghianNetre Dame ...... 3% 15t %58 417 %31·478 Sophomore wing Larry Israelson for the freshmen to adjust to athlete than for the athletic concluded.
Op:lal'tDls . 3% 14t %!4 lU %02-4%3 was tabbed the team's best college," Paterno commented on budgets of schools. "About five 
Power Play Goals-Notre Dame 40 of 

120 (33 per cent); Opponents 37 of 152 defensive forward and freshman the scholastic question. per cent of the incoming fresh­The NCAA ruling has produced • (24 per cent). center Pat Conroy was named the Coaches Darrell Royal and men would be able to play, but I mixed reactions among the 
Shorthanded goals-Notre Dame 7. 
most improved player on the Paul "Bear" Bryant, of Texas am concerned about the other coaches. Whatever their opinions 
Opponents 5. 
GoaltendersGms GA Avg. Saves So squad. and Alabama respectively, ninety-five per cent." are. the coaches of the nation will Tomasoni .... :!0.50 86• 4.20 645 0 The winners of the awards voiced the same sentiments. Ara Parseghian, coach at soon find out the results of the 
Kronholm . . . . 8.60 37• 4.30 271 I 
presented annually to the team's "Yes, I believe that it will hurt Notre Dame. agreed with Bryant edict. Only time will determine if 
Cathcart . . . . . 3.33 20• 4.54 110 0 
leading scorer and Most Valuable the freshmen players concerning the financial aspect of collegiate athletics will be
Notre Dame. .32.43 143• 4.41 10~ I Oppoaeats. . . 32.43 lSi' 4.81 t8i I !'layer will be determined after scholastically," said Bryant, the the ruling. "The freshmen ruling generally affected by the fresh­
•Does not luclude open net goals the playoffs. 1971 Coach of the Year. was aimed at helping the mid-men ruling. 

~--------------------------------~-------------------~-------~--~ 





