
On the Inside 
reactions to Dr Henry 
... pg 3 
Faculty reactions 
... pg 6 
Vol. VI, No. 101 
Henry begins shuffle 
•
1n SMC administration 
by Ann Therese Darin Campus Editor 
Three SMC administrators have new blocks on the organization chart today after newly-appointed president Edward Henry's first administrative shuffle. 
To alleviate any problems occuring between the new head's biweekly visits here from Minnesota, Henry has appointed Dr. ·william Hickey as special assistant to the president. 
Reorganizing financial areas, the present St. John University Ceriter for Local Government director has named Sr. Basil Anthony O'Flynn as vice-president for development. "With a candidate in mind," Henry will not fill her vacancy as fiscal affairs vice-president until July 1. 
The new president also announced formation of a search committee for an academic affairs vice-president-provost. Dr. Jack Detzler, three-year veteran in the post, will carry an increased teaching load in the history department and a new assignment. 
Canon doing job 
"His long experience in education and 
multiple community contacts will be 
utilized in some new capacity," Henry 
disclosed. 
Student affairs offices will remain intact. 
"My impression is that Dr. Cannon 
(student affairs vice-president) has been 
doing a good job and will be retained," 
Henry decided. "I will let her determine 
the composition of her own department." 
Interviewed in Collegeville, Minn., 
Henry dispelled false reports in Tuesday's 
South Bt'nd Tribune that he dismantled the 
merger negotiation team. He has dissolved 
the administrative task force, clarified 
Henry, a committee delegated by the 
Board of Trustees to run the college during 
the interim. The force: Drs. Hickey, 
Clarence Dineen, Paul Messbarger, and 
Bruno Schlesinger may reactivate as a 
steering committee, Henry said. 
Questioned about the possibility that the 
new appointments make the ad­
ministration top heavy in proportion to a 
1750 member student body, Henry 
responded, "I don't think the ad­
ministration is that top-heavy. Most small 
colleges have four•five people in 
development, a registrar, and a public 
relations officer. St. Mary's has none of 
these." 
administration 
not top heavy 
"The academic dean's slot may become 
reduced in significance with the ap­
pointment of the new academic affairs 
vice-president." Henry said. "There are no 
plans for replacing the present dean." 
Special assistant to the president Hickey 
will act as staff research person and as 
chief negotiator to iron out the wrinkles for 
next year's coexchange with Notre Dame. 
Intending to make the position per­
manent. Henry justified his action sayipg, 

"'We've come out of that first meeting of 
the merger negotiating teams with some 
agreements. However. there are lots of mechanics that policy has to rest on." 
"These nuts and bolts things-­registration procedures, transfer of credit, finances--must be out of the way before registration <Apr. 26). This will be Dr. Hickey's first priority," Henry continued. 
Hickey will also investigate the mechanisms of next year's mixed departments (political science and psychology, the co-exchange program's future, and alternative options to merger with the university. 
Announcing the search committee for provost. Henry declared, "The team will produce candidates, either men or women, for the position. I would be delighted if the search committee could find a qualified lay woman or sister." 
provost to be named 
He plans to meet with either Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh university president, or Rev. James T. Burtchaell, provost on his next campus visit. 
Although Henry, a political science professor, believes every administrator should teach one class to maintain student contact, the Board of Trustees has advised him to do no instruction next semester. 
"They told me to wait and reserve the first semester for getting my feet on the ground," he confirmed. "I plan however, to work with the chairman of the political science department to strengthen the department." Henry served as St. John University's political science department chairman for 16 years. 
His wife Elizabeth will not teach next year. The mother of nine children plans to do some studying in her field, develop­ment psychology. 
In the interview, Henry also clarified his first personal goal as president, in­corporation of the college. 
"Separate incorporation would be dissociation from the Sisters of the Holy Cross," he defined. "We would hope the new Board appointed after incorporation, would be expanded to include more laymen, students and faculty." 
clarifies personal goals 
Within St. Mary's community, Hickey has served for several terms as American Association of University Professors chapter president, Academic Affairs Councilman. merger negotiator, and ad­ministrative task force member. 
The present biology department chairman graduated from King's College (Wilkes-Barre, Pa.l with a B.S. in biology. His M.S. and Ph.D. in biology are from Notre Dame. 
Sr. Basil Anthony O'Fiynn received her 
B.A. in English and philosophy from St. l\larv's in addition to an M.A. in Sacred Theology. Member of the first Institute for Educational Management at Harvard University's Graduate School of Business Administration (1970), she has a second l\l.A. in Gudiance and Counseling (Education l from Notre Dame. 
As an SMC administrator, Sr. Basil Anthony was dean of students <1961-1968). 

• 
'---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~''-~· 
"''lll,. 
:¢.. . 

Ca1npus media respond ·toiletter if ·. .., 
The editorial boards of The Observt'r, WSND, and The Scholastic met in joint session on Tuesday night to draw up a statement representative of the campus media on the Faculty letter. 
The joint meeting resulted in a statement calling for a confrontation of the criticisms aired against the Administration. The statement also urges the students. faculty. and administrators of the Fniversity to work towards new solutions. 
Tlu' full tt'xt is printed on the editorial page, pagp I. 
Faculty wcmts 


dialogue with administrators 
by Joe Powers 

Reflections on yesterday's faculty statement, "The Future at Notre Dame," by some of the professors who sponsored it, ranged from disillusionment over Fr. Burtchaell's administration policies to hope for an immediate and constructive reconciliation of ad­ministration-faculty differences. 
All of the professors interviewed limited their criticisms to within four main areas-lack of faculty participation in administration decisions, the quota on tenured professors, course evaluations, and the added teaching load for the fall semester. 
Mr. Peter Walshe, an Assistant Professor of Economics and one of those who endorsed the letter, expressed hopeful optimism that administration and faculty could work out their problems together. 
"will spark debate" 

He was "convinced," that the Report of the Com­mission on Faculty Ethics, to be released today, "would spark constructive debate." He added, "I would expect that the Provost would welcome the opportunity to get into a constructive dialogue." 
In reasserting a statement made in the letter, Joseph Tihen, an assistant chairman and professor in the Biology Department, suggested that the crucial issue was the administration's refusal to allow faculty to participate in decision making. 
Tihen stated, "There is a tendency for policies to be made without discussion with department faculties. The faculty is certainly qualified to discuss academic problems with the administration and to participate in their decisions." 
Joseph Brennan, an Associate Professor of English at Notre Dame, foresaw tension arising among younger professors who are faced with the pressure of course evaluations and the lower number of tenured faculty positions. 
course evaluations 

While stressing that course evaluations are of value to the individual professor "to assess the strengths and weaknesses of his own performance," Brennan added that many young faculty members seeking tenure "might adjust their performance in the classroom." He felt the course evaluations were "wrong" to the extent that this coercion took place. 
John Borkowski, Associate Professor of Psychology, added that aside from the danger that professors will redesign their courses to influence favorable ratings, he felt the evaluations to be "too frequently done," and "done prior to finals when pressure is greatest." 
As an alternative, Borkowski suggested that seniors do the evaluations as they graduate from the depart­ment. He added, "Seniors would be better able to judge the long run effect of faculty members. For one, they have a greater number of courses behind them." 
In response to the directive, issued by Fr. Burt­chaell. that each faculty member must assume a twelve-hour teaehing load in the fall, one professor, who wishes to remain anonymous, claimed that the Provost was implying an "abuse of academic privileges" on the part of the faculty. 
Wi Ilia m Storey, Associate Professor of Theology, also signed the statement "The Future of Notre Dame" which appeared in yesterday's Observer. 
In stressing that a professor has a specified amount of time to distribute among his students, he pointed out that a larger classroom load would only lessen the time spent with each individual. 
The unnamed professor disagreed with the con­tention of other faculty members that the new ruling meant they were being "cheated out of one-third of their salary." He asserted, "All of your time goes into your job if you're doing it right. You can't manufacture time." ~ 
Borkowski termed the new twelve-hour load an · "undesirable influence." He stated that the curriculum in the psychology department is geared toward in­. dividual attention to seniors and that this individual 
study and research will be damaged by the ruling. 
A number of sponsors for the faculty statement refused comment on the fetter, on the grounds that any disparity of opinion concerning the release might reveal its author's identity. As one professor stated, "All 31 of us are sharing equally the responsibility of this letter." 
_ _j 
2 

the observer Thursday, March 16, 1972 
Adopt "wait and seell attitude 
Students react warily to selection of Henry 

by Rt>th llall 
The selection of. Dr. Edward Henry as the new St. Mary's president has ellicited a generally favorable response from the SMC student body, although many students have taken a "wait & see" attitude. 
Sophomore Mary Orr was "really impressed" by Dr. Henry. "His direction is clear, he is honest. dynamic, and innovative," she said. 
Kathy Hies, a junior psychology major. was more cautious. Miss Hies commented, "His plans are good, but we will have to wait and see what he will actually do to rebuild communications and the community." 
When asked whether Dr. Henry could meet the needs of St. Mary's Miss Hies expressed satisfaction with his past experience. "He is involved in politics and the outside community. He will not be easily intimidated," she said. 
Deborah Ley, a sophomore majoring in biology, also felt confident about the new president. "lie was involved in another merger attempt and he seems to willing to cooperate with Notre DamP " Miss Lev noted. 
Hall Presidents-
new lines unjust 
by Sui' Prt>ndergast 
Calling the proposed increases in refrigerator and television fines ··unjust." the Notre Dame hall presidents contend that all students should share the cost of 
r!.'wiring the halls. 
Alumni hall president Butch Ward wrote to Brother Kieran Hvan. assistant Vice-President for Bi1siness Affairs last week, suggesting that the University charge all on-campus students $7 more for room and board instead of raising the fines. 
According to Ward, this would provide approximately $39,()()() per y<'ar --enough to rewire one hall. 
"Ht>wiring is a maintenance job which is necessary when the halls grow old and no longer meet student needs." Ward contended. "Pres<mt students should not be taxed simply because they happen to be here when the halls need rewiring." 
Walsh president Dave Fromm also recommended abolishing the n!.'w fines of $20 per semester for rPfrigerators and $10 per semester for televisions. 
"All students should share the cost of rewiring halls since all students benefit from rewiring in the form of more electrical outlets. improvPd lighting .... and greater safety." Fromm wrote to Brother Hvan. 
·ward described the fines, designPd by Brother Ryan to discourage the usc of refrigerators and tPkvision and to pay for rewiring as "inconsistant" with 

.. tlw llnivPrsity 's mPthods of paying for othPr types of maintenance. liP also COll1mentcd that since rt>frigcrators and televisions are no longl'r luxuries, it is unfair to dC'privC' students of them. Whil(• admitting the "hot plates. large 'Salvation Army' type rdrigt>ra tors. and other high wattagC' appliances" should be hannl'd. Fromm argued that "fhl'rC' is no n•ason to discourage refrigPrators under ~.i cubic foot ('apacity and televisions which an• relatively low wattage ap­pliances." · lie sugges!t•d a refrigerator and tpleviswn permit fe(• to cover "only tht· co;,. of electricity which these appliances consume." 
The Observt:c •s published daily 
during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the Universily of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, ·second class postage paid. Notre 
Dame, Ind. 46556. 

The most common reaction to the selection is satisfaction in the choice of a layman. Many felt that an "outsider", without connection to the Holy Cross Order, can be objective. 
Freshman Mary Rejent was "glad the presidency is out of the hands of the nuns". She added, "He won't always be concerned with the Holy Cross Order." 
Opinions varied on Dr. Henry's prediction of a small college renaissance. Dr. Henry feels that a small college can provide a better community atmosphere. 
Mary Rejent noted that most people don't want to be mass produced. Agreeing with Dr. llenry, Miss Rejent continued, "Small colleges have their problems, but they can provide personalized education." 
"I believe the trend is toward experimental education, less structured, with student interests in mind. Or. Henrv is aware that creativity needs a s·mall en­vironment," Mary Orr noted. 
Kathy Hutter, a freshman, Pchoed Miss Fraser's comment but added. "I do like the idea of getting out of the shadow of Notre Dame." 
Students expressed interest in 

Dr. Edward Henry: favorable 
~tud_ent re~oose. 
Our fittle inexpensive economy car can beat your little 1nexpens1ve economycar. 
Sp~tfire is a long time winner of National, as well as Divisional, Sports Car Club of America Championships. But taking a title doesn't mean winning just one or two hard fought '\'aces a year. It means winning ten or twenty or more hard fought races a year. 
Also, don't think owning such a big winner will cost a big price. Because you ·can buy the Spitfire for a small price. And drive the Spitfire for a small price. {It gets 27 miles per gallon.) 
They don't call us Triumph for no~hing. 
Triu"'ph SpitfireI 
The Complete line of 1972 Triumphs are available for 
Immediate Delivery at 

Bt81i;~livEIIUIAIII
~oo•o••••o 
916 East McKinley, Mishawaka. 255-4751 


Dr. Henry's proposed consortium with other South Bend colleges and universities, aware of the op­portunities available. The students felt that "the time had come to work together," and St. Mary's should not ignore the facilities of other South Bend in­stitutions. 
Several underclassmen believed that the plans of Dr. Henry will not be realized for several years. 
Kathy Hutter feared that she would not be here to see the changes occur. 'In five years the school may be really good. Un­fortunately we will have graduated," she said. 
Miss Hutter continued, "Maybe someone more fiery could move things faster." 
Another freshman, Janet Krier, agreed that it will take time for St. Mary's potential to be "let loose." She doubts that Dr. Henry's plans are feasible in the near future. 
Anne Fraser summed up the sentiments of most Saint Mary's women. "At least they finally decided on somebodv." 
BEST BANDS IN TOWN -Two Bands a night -Dancing 6 nights a week (closed Monday.) -No cover on Tues., Wed., Thurs. -Open till 2~a.m. "One stop entertainment center" 
Cocktail Lounge Bowling Billiards 
SJ.u/a's vl\f;te C/ut 


2802 SOUTH 1 1 th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
616/683-4350 
''Sorry to be leaving you" Tell your favorite SMC girl how much' she'll be missed over the spring break with a special spring bouquet of flowers from Poor Richards -Only $5.00 -Orders must be in by Friday March 17 I -All deliveries to be made Mon.March 20 -Deliveries from NO Students to SMC campus only 

Phone 272-2966 
Class of '48 . 
"Shamrocks for St. Patrick's Day" 


\v.ith CONTACT LENSES 

• 
No hassle. Slip into the action with better vision without bother. Contact lenses help you see better, keep you looking great. Feel free to join the action Nith contact lenses ..· . You gP.t better looking at Union. 

Thursday, March 16, 1972 
the observer 
3 

Miami--Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama, basking in the glory of his stunning victory in the Florida Democratic Presidential primary, said that he would begin campaigning in Texas on Saturday and would 
go to Milwaukee next Thursday in what will be a broadened effort to 
on campus today
win the Democratic presidential nomination.

world 
7:30 -lecture, alan pope, recent advancement in aerodynamicNt>w York--Mayor John V. Lindsay returned to New York and in effect testing, library auditorium. confirmed reports that his presidential campaign is in deep fiscal , 7:00, 9:00 -fellini festival, engineering auditorium 
trouble. He was .cheerful and confident as he said he had to raise 7:00-lecture, sister alma peter, keenan hall. $300,000 to continue his campaign, but his aides conceded that there 7:00 -meeting, student senate, !afortune amphitheater.

briefs 
was little to cheer about in the mayor's fifth-place finish in Florida. 
Washington--A bill that would have established a national system of at notre dame -st. mary's registering voters by postcard was defeated, 46 to 42, on the floor of the (cJ New York Times 
Senate. The solid opposition of Republicans and Southern Democrats to the plan was sided by the absence of 12 Senators, eight of whom-­including Hubert H. Humphrey, Henry M. Jackson and Edmund S. Muskie--favored the bill. 
No alternative yet proposed 

Academic Council will reconsider calendar 
by Mike Baum 
held on Wednesday, March 22. The Academic Council will 
The action to reconvene the' reconvene next week to consider Council was taken after 10 
the question of the University members of the Council signed a 
Academic calendar. according to petition requesting it. Prof. Ed­
University Provost James T. ward Vasta of the English
Rurtchaell. The meeting will be Department explained the action. "The faculty manual states that the academic council meets at the call of the president, but that he must call a meeting at the petition of ten members."

n Fr. Ferdinand Brown, Associate Provost and Secretary of the Council, noted that "there is an agenda which was requested by some members of the Academic Council to discuss the new calendar." Brown added that the notice had been mailed to Council members yesterday afternoon. 
No alternative calendar has yet been submitted for the agenda. Prof. Vasta commented "The students certainly ought to bring up their new calendar, the one that was published in the · Observer
Fr. Ferdinand Brown, Associate 
<March 14th edition), and I can say 
Provost 
Transfers from SMC to receive 'Word soon 
by John Abowd 
St. Mary's students who apply to 
Notre Dame by April 5 can expect 
to hear from the admissions office 
within ten days after their files are 
complete. according to John 
(ioldrick, director of admissions. 
Applicants will be either "ac­
cepted. rejected, or told that no 
decision can be made until this 
semester's grades are available," 
he said. 
The completed application and a , college transcript constitute a 
complete file. In addition, high 
school transcript and college board 
scores are requested from tran­
sferring freshmen. 
Goldrick picked the April 5 
deadline "to allow further 
discussion with parents over 
Easter vacation." 
All transferring SMC students 
can expect a final decision by July 

Goldrick: SMC students should apply by April 5 for early ac­ceptance. 
The application deadline for all transfer students is June 15. SMC students who apply before this date can expect notification on the regular timetable. 
A total of 200 female transfer students will be accepted. The quota for incoming female fresh­men is 125. 
"All female transfer students must live on the Notre Dame campus expect those girls who will be living with immediate families in South Bend. Those living with families are still counted in the 200 quota." Goldrick said. 
ND usually requires that tran­
• sferring students take at least half their credit hours at Notre Dame. This requirement is waived for present SMC students. 
"Students who are presently at St. l\lary's arc eligible to apply for transfer to Notre Dame until the end of their junior year." Goldrick continued. 
Although the admissions office makes the final decision on transferring students. the .ap­plications are forwarded to the eollegc deans for recommendation of approYal or disapproval. Final accl'ptancl's \\'ill be sent out then by the admissions office. 
·TwentY-six business ad­rninistraiion students at St. 1\lary's will be allowed to complete their dl'grl'es as Sl\IC students. If they wish to transfl'r they will be given "I hl' highest priority ... according to a l\larch :\ l'niwrsity release. 
The other !lti Sl\lC' students pursuing programs "not offered or not fullv staffed at St. 1\Tarv's qualify. for 19i2 Notre Da~e degrees but \\·ill be considered for transfer on an equal basis." Goldrick said. 
now, for my part, I think they have a better calendar than the Ad­ministration had proposed." 
Mike Davis, who has helped coordinate efforts to change the revised calendar, explained the actions taken. The petition to reconvene the Council, he said, had been signed by 6 out of 7 student members, and by 4 faculty members. These were Prof. Charles Allen, Asst. Prof. David Appel, Prof. Alfons Seitzinger, and Prof. Vasta. 
The action was taken in response to the recent student petition to change the new calendar, which Davis said has been signed by 3,400 students. Commenting on the action of the Council members, he said, "They realize the students are dissatisfied with the calendar and they're willing to change it." 
Davis explained that the calendar proposed by the students and published in the March 14th Obsf'rvf'r (as calendar 2 and 4) will be put before a student referendum before being placed before the Academic Council. 
The Hall President's were contacted by the calendar reform 


Burtchaell: Academic Council will 


ONE OF THE BEST CONCERT GROUPS OF ALL TIME 
THE ASSOCIATION 
group last night, and will conduct a everybody voted for 2 and 4. It's general referendum of members of like a sprinkling, three guys from their halls through the section each hall, so I think there's a leaders today, Davis said. Whether distinct possibility that this or not to submit the proposed (revoking the Administration's 
calendar will depend on the results calendar> could happen. of this referendum. "At the Academic Council 
"If they (the students) don't sign meeting, the way things have been the referendum,'? he said, "we going considering that letter they won't present the calendar, but had in the paper today written by 
. right now, from the thing run in the the faculty and judging from all ObsPI'Vf'I' (the straw ballot> we signs," Davis continued, "I think have about 200 copies. Nobody there's a very good possibility that 
voted for the new calendar (that is, we can get the calendar changedthe Administrati9n's version), and over Fr. Burtchaell. 
ATT'N JUNIOR ACCOUNTING MAJORS The OBSERVER needs a Business Manager for the '72-'73 academic year. 
Interviews will be taken Thursday March 1 6 1-3 pm 
· at the Observer Business Office. Applicant must be willing 
todevote 20-2 Shours-week Salary $30-week. Any questions call Jim 7 471 or 233-2341 
BUY YOUR TICKETS NOW! ON SALE IN THE DINING HALLS MARCH 18 STEPAN CENTER 
8:00 pm$3.50 . 

.. 
., 
I 
I I 
I 
1 
j ~ 
I 
1 
Thursday, March 16, 1972
the observer
4 


rTHE 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Jim Jendryk

OBSERVER 
Editor-in-chief Business Manager 
Don Ruane Bill Bauerle Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
News: 283-1715 Editorial: 283-8661 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writerBusiness: 283-7471 
?n ?~half of ~he editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of th~ tnd1v1dual wnter; they are not to be taken as editorial comn·~nt. 



The dialogue CriSIS 

Joint Statement 
Thirty-one faculty members of the University of Notre Dame have made public a statement addressed to Father 
~ 
Hesburgh. Thestatementexpresses a fear 
that the University is moving backwards 
nd its spirit is faltering. 
One of the reasons for this condition, they 
feel, is that administrators will not 
respond sincerely to criticism. 
We strongly urge the students, faculty and administrators of Notre Dame to confront the issues raised and to work toward the solutions required. 
the editorial board of The Observer the editorial board of The Scholastic the editorial board of WSND 
There is a crisis at Notre Dame. 
The 31 faculty members who signed yesterday's statement "The future at Notre Dame" provide the best testimony to this crisis that has yet emerged. The names read like a "Who's Who" of respected professors who honestly believe that their future, both within the Notre Dame academic community and at large, may be severly jeopardized by this public statement. Whether this is true or not the fact that so many prominent teachers could feel this way is symp­tomatic of an incredible disease lurking under the skin of "The future at Notre Dame." 
At the crux of the problem is the 
University's decision-making process. Rather than taking a cosmic look at this process, a microscopic view of the way a tenure decision is made provides a better insight. 
The tenure process 
Individual departments vary somewhat in their approach but typically this is how a professor gets tenured: --The departmental Committee on Ap­pointments and Promotions meets to nominate candidates and collect credentials. One member of the depart­ment is asked to evaluate each can­didate's publications. Each candidate's publications are also evaluated .by an outside authority. --At the next committee meeting all the evaluations are read and discussed.. 
Staff: 

.·' 
Nite Editor: Dan'l Barrett, Beth Hall Layout: Peter Fries, Mary Romer, Lutkus, Kenny Headlines: Ken Kampman, John Kloos Headliner: Don Biancamano Nite Controller: Joe Wilkowski 
Discussions usually center around a candidate's scholarship, teaching ability and contribution to the department. When evaluating teaching ability, the computer analyzed teacher evaluations are u~"'d, but not as the sole criterion. --The committee then votes. Some committees use weighted votes, others use straight votes. Until last year, these votes w_ere usually secret, now each voter is required by the Provost's office to sign his ballot. --The chairman of the department then writes his own independent evaluation and recommendation which is for­warded, along with the committee's decision, to the Dean of the College. --The·. dean writes his own evaluation which is forwarded with the other in­formation to the Office of the Provost. --The Provost, then, makes the final decision which is returned to the department chairman in a form letter stating only whether the candidate was accepted or rejected for tenure or promotion. As a rule no explanation accompanies the decision. 
The aftermath 
After all the individual work by faculty members only the Office of the Provost can make a final decision. This is the lack of significant faculty input that 
contributes to the distrust which filled yesterday's statement. 
It is a distrust fueled by the absence of accompanying explanation from the Provost. It is a distrust further fueled by the arbitrariness of the one-half to two-thirds tenure limit newly imposed on the departments. It is a distr•Jst that must 
d enB~t the problem is incrediol_y complex 
and by no means one sided. It is the fact that faculty and students are left holding the ashes after a decision has been made in which they had no concrete input---no input which could politically influence the decision--that is so deplorable now. 
Our community, if it ever existed as a community, is collapsing on a bed of paternl\'lism. Dialogue has collapsed and apparent arbitrariness abounds. And it is this problem that yesterday's statement 
pinpointed. Now, it is this problem that we, as an academic:,com.munity," must confront. Immediatelr. .... ' . ·.-ii­
>~4,.. .i;:;; . 
rhe editorial board 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIII 
Reflections on Mardi Gras... · and more 
uuuuuu~~m1muuu~umuuu1uuumuumummmmmuum Greg Step;c 
Now that the bills have been paid and Mr. Way of Bethel Park, Pa. and 
O':Jr own Leo Monagham have happily driven their cars away it's time to 
div~y_ up the profits of Mardi Gras '72 -almost $11,000. There is usually 
little trouble in finding organizations who need the money -Sr. Marita, . 
Cila and many others will once again undoubtedly apply for a small share -but unfortunately there are many who will not even get a small share. In our present economy a profit of any kind often makes the one who is responsible for it a financial wizard. I cannot claim this but I can claim ·having a handful of people as my staff who were willing to work very hard 
to help benefit some of our localcharities. Many did their part. But was it a success? Certainly not. 
The entire Mardi Gras program was begun many years ago and has prospered and developed into a tradition at Notre Dame. The only reason it has been able to withstand the fate of time is because inherent in the program is. n~t only the spirit of charity but also the true Notre Dame spirit. Certa"inly not the kind that emanates from the establishment pre­molded i~age of the institution but the spirit that makes Notre Dame 
special-.t~at spirit which makes Notre Dame very meaningful to some of us-the PeoPle of Notre Dame-the students-all of us. In a serious at­tempt tope un~que and perhaps a little corny I can truly say I love Notre Dame-I've corrie, to appreciate the special education I've received from 
some very special people. """' 
But still, Mardi Gras '72 failed. If everyone we reached through the social activities had done their part those that will shortly distribute the profits would not have to turn anyone down. Instead ofa bankaccount of $11,000. We'dhaveonewhichwouldsay$50,000. Myconclusion? 
We should a~lreflect a little on our lives here -what does an education meaq to~s. · ~erely a degree? Things are changing. No longer is everyone willingoto do their share. Apathy is commonplace in our vocabularyasisthenebuloustermcommunity. Insteadoftryingtobuild 
and unite to affect change many spend tireless hours in an attempt to tear do~n and discredit others serious work. Personalities are constantly
bemg attacked. No longer do we offer suggestions but we still expect results. No longer do we hear -let's do something-but instead, what has ll'm sure everyone can fill in the blank> done for us this year? What has somebody done for us? or What can WE DO F'OR OUHSELVES? 
_u:s nonsens~ to expect something for nothing and unless everyone is wtlhng to do h1s own share-to do something positive-no one, whether godlike, kingly or poobahish will ever be able to do a thing "for US'. 
The effects that this seemingly prevailing attitude can have on educ~tion is ?larming. Involvement and development are necessary if one ts to:clatm to be educated -apathy, degradation and a constant tearing down may eventually lead to an inferior or at least lower quality
education for all of us. Ifthis be the case, someday soon we may not have to worry·about overusing the term community for it may forever be exiled from our often times redundant and meaningless vocabulary. What may emerge, however, is the third major state university in this great ·state' of Indiana. To some Iguess this won't matter. 
Jerry 

New:; F.ditor: Jerry Lutkus 
Sports f -ntor: Jimmy Donaldson 
Editorial Editor: Jim McDermott 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell 
SMC Editor: Maria Gallagher 
Features Editor: Rod Braye 

Letters to the Editor 
Thursday, March 16, 1972 the observer 
5 

On the schedule, the grass, and more 
A new schedule 
Editor: 
I would like to make a suggestion concerning the latest burning issue on campus, the new calendar. This seems to be the last of a series of matters raised by the OBSERVER this year which are of vital im­portance to quality education at Notre Dame. First, the newspaper challenged the administration to allow students to drink and sleep with their girl friends in the dorm rooms. Then the editors got upset because St. Mary's girls are not going to get Notre Dame diplomas. 
Next, an editorial urged the students not to elect a cat for student body vice-president. Finally, the issue is whether students will have to quit their summer jobs on August 29 or September 4. 
With the campus constantly in turmoil over such far-reaching and important problems, it is no wonder people make statements like those of Tom O'Mara <OB­SEHVEH, March 13), John Hickey <OBSEHVER, March 6 and 9), and Mr. Joseph Duffy <SCHOLASTIC, March 10>. 
Although the previous problems are much too important and complicated for an undergraduate like me to solve, I do have a rather simple proposal for an alternative calendar: 
1st semester -Sept. 15 to Dec. 1 ­registration, classes, finals THIS SCHEDULE HAS 70 CLASS DAYS. 2nd semester -Jan. 15 to Apr. 4 ­registration, classes, finals THIS SCHEDULE HAS 72 CLASS DAYS. 
It is obvious that this calendar 
starts later and ends earlier than 
l'ither one mentioned in the March 
14 Obst'J'Vl'J'. The only catch is 
that classes are held on Saturdays, 
Sundays, and HOLIDAYS. If we 
double the number of clas~s held 
p<'r day by scheduling them trom 8 
am to midnight. we can eliminate 
lh<' tst semester completely. · 
As soon as this ideal calendar is 
scht'duled, the Obsl'rver editors 
will definitely have to stay awake 
at night pondering how Notre 
Daml' t'ducation can possibly be 
further improved! 
Very truly yours, Thomas A. Gregory 

SBP election 
Editor: 
As a l''rancophile and student of history. I've often thought that the l•'n'nch people seemed a better lot than many of their politicians. As a lt'aclwr. I've formed a similar notion about Notre Dame students. This impression is strengthened by lh<' rt'cent student elections. l<:,·idently more.people than myself w non-,·oterl found Bob Kersten a rl'freshing change. O\·er the years ft'w things have been more im­pn'ssi,·e in the performance of so manv student St'nators. Consuls. l'ardinals. and Elder Statesmen than the utter seriousness with which thev take themselves. 
Sometimes a stern "editorial" ainl<'d at \'illains in the "Ad­ministration" has made me think of a third grader sticking his tongue out at teacher. l\1any a "position paper" or electoral manifesto reads like an invitation to com<' out and play gang busters. 1 .aml'nts about student "apathy" make me think of the "apathy" with which many adults would wdcome the exhortation to read a eomic book. 
In the recent elections, Bob Kersten and the voters showed not only a sense of humor but something else closely allied: a sense of proportion. They are rebels who have achieved the ultimate in defiance: they have r<'pealed the Law of Gravity. 
Sincerely yours, 
.James E. Ward 
Stay off grass 
Editor, 
llpon reflecting on the nature of the cable-threaded, silver-painted, concrete-embedded posts which line a large portion of the surfaced walkways of thts campus, I came to the rather obvious realization that .someone, years ago, acknowledged that many of the people who spend time at this university are manifest pigs and cattle; in short, upon surveying the terrestial damage to the campus' green areas, it is clear that the cables serve a necessary, though oft-times frustrated, purpose. 
As yet. spring is far from 'bustin' out all over;" on the other hand, the likelihood of significant snowfall is steadily decreasing. In effect, then, the dessication of the local grassy areas will become increasingly obvious, particularly if the local swine and bovine continue their cross-country short­cuts, and if the hobbled bastards in the golf carts continue to leave their treaded scars in the wet sod. 
To wit: the most flagrant violation of the grass consists in the ever-widening mud paths which converge, V -like, at the west doors of the library. 
My appeal, therefor, is directed to the university's domesticated stock and to those gents who concern themselves with the maintenance of the university's grounds; to these, the following comments are directed: 
1. 
It would be a shame to haveto cable-off the flora surrounding the library. 

2. 
I suggest, however, that the grounds people take immediate steps to place cable barriers in the essential places, hopefully to block. or at least retard, the current traversing in the foot-worn areas about campus; and im­plement re-seeding as soon as the last frst danger has passed. 


:t 1 wish that the 'people' who make daily treks in the campus l'nvirons would observe and heed the meaning of the above­nl<'ntioned barriers, i.e., walk on thf' siclPwalks. 
.t. In sum. fellows. give the grass a chance: impose upon your fril'llds to keep off the grass, at lt'ast until it is stronger and full­grown in the later spring. Yours. at tlw grass roots level. Louis A. Bojas 
Schedule, again 
Jo:ditor: 
In regards to the new schedule. 1 wonder if anv member of the t 'ni,·ersil\· Academic Council considered the economic \'iewpoint of the students. 
\\'ith an earlier fall semester. manv students will lose a week's pay 'on summer jobs. The shor­tt'ned Christmas ,·acation will also cut into jobs. \\'ith the tuition raise l'Xp<'cted. this will present a larger l'conomic burden than the one we face now. !\laking two trips home in the spring semester presents the problems of finding noes anti financing them. 
The reason for the schedule change. according to Fred Giuf­frida. was that the first semester was too long. The council with the campus in weather an bright spots, notably , the dinner responded by extending the eskimo wouldn't rub noses with? Saturday night highlighted by Fr. semester. With this contradiction, Under these weather conditions, Hesburgh's speech and Fr. and the student's financial all activities must be confined to Griffin's saving note on Sunday, situation, I beg the council to the indoors. And this calls for will compensate for the reconsider. organization. Unfortunately, this mismanagement and in­Yours in Povertv call wasn't answered. Things consideration the parents of the 
didn't culminate in junior class suffered here at 
disorganization, they began with Notre Dame. 
it. It seems a little absurd to me, 
that I had to be told by my Paul Breen
Corso replies parents two weeks beforehand Abraham Lincoln Hickey 
that Junior Parents' Weekend :309 Morrissey 
was on the first weekend in 
March. I mean, why weren't the Editor: students informed and why didn't 
In reply to John Hickey's letter we receive a brochure of the Plaudits for in your March 9th edition: activities'? And why wasn't 
I did not write or sign the letter the faculty informed that they Henry editorial sent by the 21 residents of Flan­would be meeting with the ner's ninth floor, which sharply juniors' parents before it was too criticized SBP John Barkett. late to work them into their 
Mr. Hickey's comments make it schedules. That really got things (~l'ntlemen: l'vident that he is a middle class started for some: going to an I wish to congratulate The Ob­ass, a species which abounds at alleged majors presentation and st•rnr on the appointment of a this university. His being ac­being presented with an empty mature staff. The article on the cepted to Harvard Law School room. And then having the appointment of Doctor Henry in has simply served to lower my parents and their sons sitting vour March 13 edition, as well as inconsiderable opinion of that around the engineering the editorial in regard to the ap­institution. auditorium while someone, or pointment on page 4 shows a 
By the way, it was very clever of perhaps no one, was scurrying maturity which is certainly Mr. Hickey to look up my address around looking for the campus welcomed by graduates of Notre in the student directory. If offered life film which had already been Dame. a biscuit I wonder if he would sit up sent back <at least that's what we Since my graduation from Notre and beg also. were told, it probably was never Dame. my wife and I have en­
Sincerely obtained in the first place) to the tertained many students from the 
Glen S. Corso Public Relations Dept. I was University. All of these have shown 
906 Flanner Tower under the impression, in this a normal, healthy maturity which 
case, misconception, that a film was in contrast to the editorials, 
should be proofed before a newspaper stories, and cartoons 
general showing. At least on which I have seen in The Observer 
Saturday, the president's in the past few years. I can well
Junior parents 

meeting and the dinner at understand that there are times 
Stephan's came off as scheduled. when the students do not see eye to 
But then, Fr. Hesburgh was eye with the administration. The 
I would like to discongratulate affiliated with these activities, so expression of normal gripes in a 
the committee responsible for the their success was insured. "bull session" is historic at Notre 
organization of Junior Parents' Dame, and I certainly have taken 
Weekend. Their acute case of At least the committee <if there part in my share as an un­
ineptitude is inexcusable. Being was one, I'm not so sure right dergraduate. However, when the 
a junior, whose parents made a now\ was consistent, because on discussion of these matters are put
supreme sacrifice to be with their Sunday the floor really fell into a newspaper in an editorial, 
son for this special occasion, I through on their unplanned they certainly should be expressed 
feel both embarrassed and in-plans. It seems as though the in a different manner than those 
furiated with the way the ac-brochure that was given our generated in a heated extraneous 
tivities were handled this past parents was the only one aware discussion. 
weekend. I can only imagine the that there was an 8:15 mass Again, I wish to congratulate
impression of N.D. they took scheduled at Sacred Heart you on your excellent presentation 
home with them. Church, because neither the in the March 13 issue and I look 
-.
Mismanagement like this has not Church nor the priests were forward to reading The Observer 
been seen around here since aware of this. However, · the with interest rather than being
Studebaker was on its way out. brunch afterwards really stole appalled.
To begin with, to have the the show. That was inefficiency 
Junior Parents' Weekend at this at its best. Having a ghost town Very truly yours,
time of the year is regrettable. for an MC table was the coup de Francis Jones 
How can anyone expect the disgrace of the whole sad affair. Class of '29 
pra_r_e_nts~t_o_fa_m__il_ia_r_iz_e_t_h_em__se_l_v_es____ __ is that the few
M~y~o_n_ly~h_o_~pe --------------------------~ 
Due to circumstances the 
MARBLES TOURNAMENT 
will be cancelled until after Easter Break. 
ALUMNI CLUB 
tSENIOR BAR) 
presents 
WED. Pre-war-m up-Warm up Happy Hour extended 4:00 • 9:00 Bar open till2:00 
THURS. Warm up 
,,.

-.. •
Bar open 9:00 • 2:00 with Chris Jlanion and Fiddle playing friend stomping up a storm 
FRI. The Day Open 7:00 am Beer 30c: less than regular price for 1st hour Beer sells for 25c·glass rest of day 
SAT. Sorry, Dar Closed 


the observer Thursday, March 16, 1972
6 

Walshe, Houck discuss Faculty statement 
hy Mikt.> Baum 
Asst. Prof. Peter Walshe of the Economics Department yesterday commented on his signing of the Faculty letter and called for a "shift from the negative to the positive" in the debate. 
Making two points, Walshe said, "All of us signed the letter in substance. in other words there are important issues in there we are com·erncd about. The point is agn•ement in substance." He then wPnt on to say, "I signed it in parentlwsis with the following ~fa(('lllPnt: 'In the expectation of rlialoguc on the basis of the report of thP ( 'ommittee on Faculty !<:!hies, .. The samP statement was arlrlPd by Prof. E .A. noerner of ( ;ovt•rnnH'nt. 
Walshe explained that the Committee, actually a sub­committee of the Committee on the Faculty Manual, was set up by the Faculty Senate to "Reexamine the whole question of the faculty and its responsibilities here at Notre Dame. This automatically involves the faculty vis-a-vis the ad­ministration and vis-a-vis the students.'' he said. "so we've been considering some of the central isSUl'S about University structure. Thcrl'fore. I would like to see this il'ttcr 1 the Faculty letter l arouse intPrPst in a positive on-going discussion on the issues raised by thc <'ommiteee on Faculty l·:thics." 
Walshe emphasized that he hoped to see the question discussed af IPngth preferably with the 
L* 
Mock Convention News 
Organizers of the Mock Democratic Convention announced last night opening meetings of state delegations scheduled for this evening. States that are meeting are: California 6::30 127 Nieuwland Michigan 6::~0 Sudent Union Social Comm. Illinois 7::lo 123 Nieuwland Maine 9:00 Main Lounge LaFortune Connecticut 11:00 2-D LaFortune Florida 10 pm Badin Vintage Cinema 
Delegates should check lists in the Huddle for their assigned delegation. 
SMC Major's Night to outline new programs 
by Ann Tht.>rt.>sl.' Darin {'a111 pus Editor 
SMC academic departments will host "Major's Night" this evening 7-9 pm. 
Unlike previous major's nights, which merely served to inform St. Mary's students about rcquirements of majors, tonight's session will be the first time department chairmen can con­cretely specify the I'equirements for majors to be retained. They will also elaborate on new academic programs. 
At this stage, according to ad­ministrative sources no one can
-determine how strong or how diversified departments will become. This decision depends on the number of major intents. Meetings to simultaneously take place in Madeleva and Science 
flall classrooms, are open to both 
freshmen and sophomores. 
According to Dr. William Hickey, 
special assistant to President 
Edward Henry, "Major's nig~t 
will be the first substantial and 
authoritative information since the 
college distributed information on 
academic co-exchange with Notre 
Dame for next year." 
"Students who don't feel that 
they understand St. Mary's 
present situation or who have 
difficulties should come by to see 
me." invited Hickey. This evening, 
he as biology department chair­
man, will counsel biology intents in 
the Science Hall. He will be available to students today and daily either in his administrative office. Hoom 131 LeMar.s Hall, or his academic office, Room 212 Seience Hall. 
Amtrak lapses intcJ debt 
by Stt>JIIwn Aug 
((•) l!li:! Nt>w York Times 
Washington -Amtrak ran out of cash today and is unable to meet a $12 million monthly payment to the 
J:l railroads that operate its nationwide system of passenger trains. officials confirmed. 
Nonc of the railroads: however, has indicatPd any intention to stop operatmg ·tne trams. 
Hardest hit financially by the shortage will be the bankrupt Penn Ccntral Transportation Co., which had been expecting a monthly payment of about $2.8 million. Penn Central runs about 40 per cent of Amtrak's service. 
Penn Central President, William Moore. said the railroad this year is ''fortunate ... we have the cash and we can stand it." 
Although the bills due_tucl<u:Jatal about $12 million, the railroads pay Amtrak about $5 million a month as their cost of joining the cor­poration. the difference -about $7 million -is the cash Amtrak ac­tually pays out to the railroads l'ach month. 


''LONG HAIR'' 
Strictly Caranaby St. The British Shag is The new limey shag here. If you have long (LONG HAIR) is the hair Continental's bloody sensation, as Artists can trim it for a desired, for the young bloody true Shag, as HARE SET with kitties desired, with or without only. 
k.iUJ..es..

.. 
H('althy hair is our business. 
a 


HAIR STYUNG, LTD.I} 
SEI\\"IN<; TilE N.I>. 1'01\1!\ll":\ITY FOH 0\'EH -1 YEAHS 
I ·.111 ~:i!l llil\l lor AI'I'Oit'-iTl\IE!\T J:l~l I·~ :\lcl\inll'Y Avc .. 1\lish. 1ncxt door to Provost. Fr. James T. Burtchaell, playing a part. "My suggestion," he offered, "would be that the debate be shifted from the negative on to the positive and this document could do the trick." 
The report of the Sub-committee on Faculty Ethics to which Prof. Walshe alluded was explained by
; . 


Houck: language inconsistencies being removed 
Prof. John Houck of the Business College, who is chairman of the subcommittee. "Thestateofit (the report) right now is that it's being worked on removing some language inconsistencies and improving the style," he ex­plained. 
Houck said that the report is being prepared under the Com­mittee on the Faculty Manual. "W~'re in tne process of redrafting the faculty constitution. We call it the Faculty Manual, which is a misnomer." 
The report discusses the university as a "community of scholars" and deals with rights and duties arising from this con­cept. and "certain duties of communal government" ac­cording to Prof. Houck. "The area dl'alt with is extremely im­portant." he said. 

Whether or not the report will be published as is is not yet decided, according to Houck. It is being considered as part of the deliberations on the revised Faculty Manual in the Manual Commitee under Prof. James Hobinson of the English Depart­nwnt. WhcthPr or not the report itself is published will be decided by Prof. Houck's committee. 

JIM HIBSCHMAN
mmille
bUSiness PONTIAC 
301 Lincolnway East 
Mishawaka 255 4771 
SOPHOMORES 
Meet your Maior Night 
DEPT. OF ECONOMICS 
Faculty & Students will be on hand to explain the curriculum &·answer your questions 
Thurs. March 16 Lib. Lounge 8:00 
* Principles of Econ is not a necessary prerequisite for a major 

Whatis lifewithout love? 



From one beer lover to another. 
THE STROH BRE\X"ER \" Cm!PA:\Y. DETROIT. MICHJGAi': 48226 
·~------··-~----------------­
Thursday, March 16, l'm the observer 7 
Kayos, an upset in Irish Bouts 
by Vic Dorr 
The second round of Notre Dame's annual Bengal Bouts was held last night. and the semis, like the quarter-finals featured a good nu_!!!_!)er _<!!._ ~nockouts and TKO'~ 
Five technical knockouts and two knockouts capped the action on last night's 20-fight card, as ten fighters advanced into Friday's championship pairings. 
Basketball Standings 
Final Standings IVY LEAGUE Colli. AD Penn 0000.:.: ..... .13 I .929 23 2 .920 
Princeton 00 .00 00 ool2 2.957 19 6 . 760 Harvard 00 00 00 00 .. . 8 6 .571 15 II .577 Dartmouth . . . . 8 6 .571 15 II .577 Brown. ... 6 8.429 10 16 .385 Yalt>.. 00 ....... 00 00 5 9 .357 7 17 .292 Columbia .. 00 ...... 3 II .214 420 .167 Cornell I 13 .071 5 19 .208 SOUTHEASTERN 
Coni. AU W L Pel. W L Pet. Kentucky ........14 4 .778 20 6 .769 
Tennessee 00 ...14 4 . 778 19 6 . 760 
Alabama .. 0013 5 .m 18 8 .692 
Vanderbilt... 00 ... 10 8 .556 16 10 .615 
Georgia 00. .. . 9 9 .500 14 12 .538 
Mississippi ........ 8 10 .444 13 12 .520 
Auburn .. .. .. .. .. .. 6 12 .333 10 16 .385 
LSU .. 00......... 6 12 .333 10 16 .385 
Miss. State . . . . . . . . 6 12 .333 13 13 .500 
Florida . . .. . · ... 414 .222 9 17 .346 BIG TEN Conf. AU W LPd. W Llet. Minnesota .. . .. ... II 3 .786 17 6 . 739 
Ohio State .. 00 ....10 4 . 714 18 6 . 750 
Michigan . . . . . . . . . 9 5 .643 14 10 583 
Indiana...... . 9 5 .643 17 17 .708 
Purdue . 6 8 .429 12 12 .500 
Wisconsin . . 6' 8 .429 13 II .542 
Mich. State. 6 8 .429 13 II .542 
lllmois . 5 9 .357 14 10 .581 
Iowa ... .. .. 5 9 .357 II 13 .451! 
Northwestern 3 11 .214 5)8 .217 MAJOR INDEPENDENTS WoR Lost Pel. Oral Roberts 2.1 .96l 
Hawau. .. .. 24 92:' Marquette .... ~4 .923 Marshall 23 .8K5 South Carolui; .. 22 .641• Flonda St. .. 00 23. 5 8: Providence. 21 5 .808 Syracuse .. • 0 2i .808 Duquesn~ 5 .8uu 
')(_

Houston 6 •.769 Nev• Mexico St 19 6 .760 Villanov< If 6 .760 Cmcinnati. .17 .708 Detr.:tt 17 .708 i arkscm,·dh• .708 Pan Amencan 00 00 17 .708 ~ urdilam ... 18 8 .692 Nia~ara . 18 8 .692 Penn State 17 8 .680 Col~ate . . .. 00 .. 16 8 . 66"I St. onaventure .... 16 8 .667 St John's. Nv . 17 9 .654 Farrleigh Dickmsrn .. 15 9 .625 Vtrj,\tnla Tech . 16 10 .615 West Texas St . 15 10 .600 Creighton 15 II .577 Hardm-Simmons . . 15 II .57i Holy Cross ... 15 II .517 Cantstus . 14 II· .560 New Orleans Lnyola . 14 II .560 Rutgers 00 14 11 .560 Oklahoma Ctty 15 12 .556 West Vtrguua . 13 11 .542 DePaul .. 12 11 .542 Centenary 00 .. 13 12 .520 Long Island . . 13 12 .520 Boston College . 13 13 .500 Davton .. 13 13 500 Pitisburgh 12 12 .500 Air Force .. . 12 13 .480 Fatrfteld .. 12 13 .480 St ~"rancis, Pa.. . 12 13 .480 St Peter's. ... f2 13 .480 Navy 11 12 .478 Denver 12 14 .462 St. Francis. N.Y . 12 14 .462 Ohto Xavier 12 14 .462 Army .. 11 13 .458 Manhattart 11 13 .458 George Washtngton 11 14 440 Seton Hall 11 15 423 Utah State .11 15 .423 Portland . . 10 16 .31!S Ch.tcago Loyola 8 14 364 Jona 7 15 318 Tulane 8 18 .308 Boston U 7 16 .304 
Georgia Tech . 6 20 .231 
Notre Dame 6 20 231 
Georgetown. D.C.. 3 23 115 
BIG EIGHT Coni. AU W L Pet. W L Pet. Kansas State . 12 2 .8:i7 18 8 692 
Mtssoun . . 10 4 714 21 ~ ROB 
Oklahoma 9 5 .643 14 12 .:i3R 
Nebraska. 7 7 500 14 12 53H 
Kansas . . 7 7 500 11 15 .423 
Iowa State 5 9 .357 12 14 462 
Colorado 4 10 2!16 7 19 269 
Okla State 212 .143 4 22 1>-1 
WEST COAST ATHLETIC Coni. AU ". L Pet. W L Pet. San Francisco 13 I 931 19 7 .731 
Santa Clara . 11 3 7!16 II 9 6>-1 Seattle 10 4 714 1i 9 6:>4 Nev ·Las \'~gas 8 6 .5il 14 12 539 Lovola 6 8 429 II 15 423. Pepperclme 5 9 357 10 15 400 S! 'c!a~··s 3 11 214 9 li 31Jli "''vada· R~no 0 14 000 224 0/i 
l'\CIF!f-8 fonl. All W L Pet. II' L Prt. L'CLA 14 0 I 000 21i 0 I tiiJO 
Washmgton 10 4 714 19 7 731 
Oregon St 9 5 .643 10 10 643 
Southern Cal 9 5 643 16 10 til;) 
Stanford .. 5 9 .357 10 15 400 
Wa>hington St. 3 11 .214 11 15 m 
Oregon .... 0 14 .000 6 20 .231 
Larry Semerad began the semifinal card by scoring a TKO at one minute of · the first round against Harry Bush. his opponent in the 125-lb. class. Semerad made effective use of his mobility and a strong left-hand attack to stagger Bush just moments .after the opening bell. 
Semerad's opponent in the 125­lb. finals will be Mike Loughery, who posted a unanimous decision over Frank Graziano in their semi­final match. 
In the opening match in the 135­lb. class, Pat McGrath earned a final-round berth by scoring a unanimous win over Rich Aren­sberg, boxing in place of the in­jured Jami~ Egan. Matt Cavanaugh earned the other 135-lb. spot by decisioning Tom Hudes. Cavanaugh and Hudes pawed at each other for nearly two rounds of their three-round match, but Cavanaugh clinched it late in the third frame by landing several punches to Hudes' head and upper body. 
Gar.y Canori, last year's titlist in the 145-lb. class, survived an en­counter with roundhouse boxer Charlie Morrison. Canori avoided most of Morrison's best punches, and scored enough himself to win unanimously. But while Canori continued a winner, Mike Suddes, last year's champion in the 150-lb. division. did not. 
Suddes, competing this year in the 145-lb. class, was surprised in a 
. unanimous decision by Tom Hanlon. Suddes weaved around his opponent for most of the match. but Hanlon caught him twice--in the corner just before the end of the first round. a.1d with an ef fective flurry midway through the second round. :~arning the aod trom the judges. 
150-pounder Tom Bole ><cored ~he first knockout ot the c~vening when he dropped Paul Smyth at 1: 1P of :he iirst round of their match. Bole staggered Smyth early in the opening round. and sent him to the canvas with a combination of punches shortly afterwards. 
Mike Sanders claimed the other final-round spot in the 150-lb. class when he scored a unanimous decision over Terry Johnson. Both fighters scored well in that match, but Sanders' use of his left hand gave him the advantage. 
Kevin Kerrigan and Ken McCandless fought a fairly even fight in the opening bout of the 155­lb. division. The two fighters spent most of the early· periods feeling each other out, but Kerrigan took the fight to McCandless in the late going and earned a unanimous win. 
Larry Finneran. who kayoed Hoger Varela in Monday night's action, kept his title chances alive by notching a TKO against Bob lknnett. Finneran. who made good ~se of his left han~--especially on Jabs and occasiOnal hooks-­finished Bennett at 25 seconds of the second round. 

The second half of last night's program saw the tempo of the individual fights increase con­siderably. Ed Carney and Dan Moriarty opened the 160-lb. division. and it took Carney ·slightly more than two rounds to register the evening's third TKO. Carney felled Moriarty with a right 
in the second round. and dropped 
'tim !wier again in the f'·•al frame. 
Til(· fight was called «i·5ti seconds 
ot the third round. 
' 
.,hl other 160-lb. ffi«;'ht:;: niht:d 
lidi·, Polk against Bot M:tykuth
"'olk. following the script of the 
previous event. scored a TKO by 
dropping 1\-iaykuth at 50 seconds of 
the final round. Polk used sizeable 
height and reach advantages to 
finish Maykuth. after corralling 
him in the corner. 
Bill McGrath and Roland Chamblee produced the night's most spectacular fight in the opening event in the 165-lb. division. The two boxers traded-­and absorbed--each others best shots for the entire fight, and McGrath held a slight advantage after the first two rounds. But Chamblee. who had dropped McGrath in the first round, dropped him again just before the bell in the third and took a split decision. Chamblee and McGrath left the ring to a standing ovation from the sparse Convocation Center crowd. 
Norm Barry earned the right to oppose Chamblee in tomorrow's finals when he flattened Charlie Grimm at 50 seconds of the second round. Ba and Grimm rred 
.. 

for much of the match, but Barry The other light-heavy event saw won it when he nailed Grimm with Pat Steenberge capture a split a rising right hook to the head. decision over Tom Kain. Kain had 
Denny Clark punished Tim Steenberge against the ropes Dempsey for three periods in their several times, but Steenberge 1_75_-lb. fight_. but he could never escaped often enough to gain the ftmsh off his stubborn opponent. victory. 
Cia~~ did win a una_nimous The heavyweight class featured dectswn. however, and w1ll meet the night's last TKO--a furious ~~ron King in Friday'~ finals. flurry by Mike Webb, who had 
Kmg da~ced and d?d_ged his way to Brian Joseph nearly defenseless at a un~mmous decision over Ken 50 seconds of the first round. l\1abne. 
Webb's opponent in the heavyweight finals will be big Bot·

In the light heavyweighr division, Cecil Boot scored : Moorman. Moorman gained il 
unanimous win over nard-fought. split decision
rugged Dar owr· 
Frank Basanese.

Brown Brown stood up to Boot for . mnr" than two roundf.. but suc-Fridav·,: actiOn will be held ;r 
c'tnr;;r:·d to 2 flurry of punches tne /'. :..c. arena, and wil! get lm\·;,rds iiJe end of the third stanza. underway at 8:00. 
r-




OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
ND golf team heads 
•

South for sprzng 
by Jo(' Passiatore Voelker; and Marty Best. Phil Burn and Bucky Boetto are The 1972 Notre Dame golf team sophomores who figure swings into action with a Spring prominently in Coach Durbin's trip to the University of South plans and Mike Kristner and Jeff Carolina beginning March 22 and Burda arf' p:-r.mising f~:eshmen. concluding April 2nd. Veteran When asked what he would coach Fr. Clarence Durbin em­consider a successful season from phasized that the trip will be this year's contingent of linksters, looked upon as a type of Spring Coach Durbin replied, "Any time training for the team since they we finish a season with a record of have had no opportunity to having beaten more teams than practice thus far this season. have beaten us in the various tournaments we play in, and the
"Thev call this tournament the 

like. then we've had a successful
shoot-otit in the South and there 

season.''
will be close to 45 different schools 

The golf team will host its own
participating in the variou.s 

Notre Dame Invitational on April
tournaments held down there. 

29 at the Burke Memorial course.
We're going down there with the 

The tournament will include
idea of getting ready for our 

twdve different schools and will be 
regular season." Notre Dame's 

:lfi holes. The fact that the tour­
first real competition will be the 

nament will be played on the Irish
Ohio :-< .. te Invitational on April 14 

golfers' home course should make
and l:ith. 

them a serious contender for the Coa~h Durbin appraised this championship.Ye;ll ',, ~earn :; (he following on
In summarizing his feelings tna nner. "The ·"··· r have to the upcoming season coach Durbin 
\I ork with thi~ '.ear seems con­said. "I'm expecting some prettysiderably better than last year's good things I was impressed by ~·-am. \\'e lost thret St·niors from 
some people in the Fall tour­
last ~-ear. but I feel the sophomores nament and we'll find out with this and freshmen we have this year 
spring trip who will be playing in are an improvement over those the regular season tournaments. 
three." 
Just because a boy doesn't make 
Heturning juniors from last 

this trip South with the team does 
year's team include captain Mike 
not mean he will not be playing in 
LaFrance. winner of the Fall Notre 

Dame tournament: Chuck 


~~ ~ ~

..---------­
the observer Thursday, March 16, 1972
8 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
BRUCE BARKER WANTED

SMC plans "celebration" 

by 1\lal"ll'rH.' Zloza 
Candles. flashlights and firecrackers prevailed Monday during a power failure that plagued sections of the Notre Dame campus. A Tuesday night failure blacked out LaFortune Student Center from 9:30 to 10:20. 
Beginning at noon, the Monday blackout was caused by the failure 

Provostls office to control 
all future f!OTC programs 
by Bill McGinn The Arts and Letters College Council decided on March 8 to transfer its control of the ROTC programs to the tutelage of the Provost. Col. Lake. executive officer of Military Science, noted that the primary reason for the switch was to reduce the administrative load of the A&L College. He also explained that less than 20 per­cent of the Army ROTC par­ticipants are enrolled in this college 
-
The top Navy ROTC com­mander at duLac, Col. Staples, stated that the transfer occured for several reasons. He em­phasized the fact that Navy HOTC students were enrolled in all colleges of the University, only 20 percent of whom are in Arts and Letters. He also in­structed that the switch will reduce the administrative load for this rapidly growing college. 
Col. Staples further explained that Navy HOTC was not a degree granting department, as are the other departments in the Arts and Letters Collel!P 
Hev. James T. Burtchaell, 
C.S.C. also explained the ad­ministrative shift of the ROTC programs to the control of his office. The Provost stated that the transfer was requested by the D£>an of the College Council. The D£>an cited the small percentage of HOTC participants in the Arts and Letters College. 

The second reason Burtchaell gave for the shift was that the · three ROTC "service" depart­.. nents don't grant degrees. The .:f~ frovost explained th~t there is a ' . precedent for removing "ser­vice" departments from the various colleges. The Physical I<:ducation Dept. was removed from the A&L Collegewhen it ,. ··&topped issuing degrees. It 
''l)ecarrie a service department .voting power on the A&L College Counci.l. However, one com­mander will serve in an observer capacity on the council. 
He also added that for the past 
three years Notre Dame has 
insisted that the ROTC faculty 
have graduate education. The 
University has turned down 
many more officers that were 
appointed because of their lack of 
academic degrees. 
When queried about the place 
of ROTC on a college campus, the 
Provost gave an affirmative 
answer. "As long as we have an 
Armed Forces a liberal education 
is most important. It is much 
better than being just 
professionally trained." Rev. 
Burtchaell also disclosed that the 
ROTC programs provide 729, 000 
dollars worth of financial aid to 
Notre Dame students. 
YUL RICHARD LEONARD BRYNNER .CRENNA NIMOY 

Bruce Barker: WHERE ARE YOU? We are waiting with bated breath to hear
social and vocational 
you. Write quick. 

Annie
stereotypes."
by Ann McCarrey 

In response to an expressed concern of a lack of awareness and expression in the Saint Mary's community, an independent student movement-will organize a four~day "Celebration of Self" on the SMC campus in mid-April. 
Originators of the event, Ann Dunn and Father Roger Cormier, hope that the event will provide an opportunity for students to "come to know the spiritual soul of the community and to stimulate a renaissance for women." 
"On the whole. we don't deal with each other as persons," Ms. 
Dunn said. "Therefore, Saint Mary's takes on the appearance of a non-community of individuals suffocating in mutual isolation." "If the collective community has 
a  weak  concept  of  self,"  she  
continued,  "it  can't  project  a  
strong image."  

Accordingly, the focus of the celebration will be upon women. The activities will be aimed at raising the personal levels of consciousness of members of the SMC-ND community and provide discussion of issues related to the liberation of women. 
"What we are aiming for," Father Cormier stated, "is to raise issues both publicly and personally concerning the need to shatter 

The "Celebration of Self" is still in the developmental stages. At 
WANTED 

present. organizers plan to begin with a fair consisting of various 
Wanted: 2 female roommates for house off-campus. Rent $40
displays· allowing students to 
month. Call 8409.

manifest' and share in the ex­pression of hidden talents. 
Want to rent garage near campus 
tor rema·inder of semester. Call after 6:30 pm. Frank 8242.
The independent student project is supported by St. Mary's Campus Ministry, Human Helations Com­
Need two individuals to rent six­room bi -level apartment for summer months. Completely 
mission of the SMC Student 
Government. and the Notre Dame 
furnished Ideal for Grad.
Non-Violence Department. 
students. 10 minutes from 
Any student or faculty member 
campus $85 per month total. 
Contact Kevin 272 7565 or Rich 283 1766. 
interested in participating, organizing, or just talking, should contact the coordinator, Ann Dunn 
Need 2 4 Sonny & Cher Tix (non· 15273 l or Father Cormier t 5389 l. 
bleachers). George . 1337. 
WANTED: Wine bottles (empty, of course) to be used in decorating
Power failure plagues the North Dining Hall for Italian Night. Please bring your empty bottles to the Manager's Office of the North Dining Hall or the South Dining Hall, prior to April 7th.
Holy Cross, LaFortune 
Wanted: 3-4 students to sublet a house for the summer in SB. 3 blocks from campus. Call Tim 
of an electrical feeder line between 
lloly Cross and Columba Halls. 
1105.

Mr. William Ganser, Chief 
LOST AND FOUND
Engineer at the power plant, specualted that the initial cause of 
Found: Contact lens. Call Sam 
the calamity "could have been a 
7415. 

lightning bolt that struck a nearby 
Lost: ND Food Coupon Book.
tree during the electrical storm." 
Call Pal 232-9118.

B£>cause all campus power lines are connected underground, it took 
Lost Keys on long chain. 
Generous reward. Help! Call 8320. 
some time for the trouble to be 
corrected and the fault bypassed. Although the blackout affected 
ATTENTION! Lost: Small red 
LaFortune, Stanford-Keenan and 
notebook. Return much ap. 
preciated. Call 1376.

St. Joe's. the most serious problem 
occurred in Holy Cross Hall. While 
RIDES

other. buildings experienced failures for short periods of time, 
DRIVING SOUTH?? 

People need ride (s) to Baton Rouge New Orleans area, for
Holy Cross was without electricity 
for 13 hours. 
break. Call Rick 8257.

During the correction of the primary failure, the power line to 
N<'ed ride to N.Y.C. or Conn. Can 
leave anytime on or alter 23rd. Call Patll 8276.
Holy Cross developed a short circuit, resulting in the extended dark plague. Lack of lighting and 
Need ride to New Orleans for 
break. Call Chris 8659.

heat were the major concerns, but 
hot water was still available 
Need ride to Davenport. Iowa. 1-80
Some Holy Cross residents spent 
west. Cal I 8423. 

the evening at the library or visiting friends, but many stayed 
Need ride to Syracuse area March 
22. Call Mary 5124.

in their own hall. According to Dennis Moran, a sophomore, "We 
Need ride to NYC, Phil., or Wash. 
just decided to make the best of the 
D.C. Mar. 18. 8426. 

situation and ended up having a 
Need ride(s) to L.t. or Phil. Mar.
really good time." 
18 19. 8720. 

NC'ed ride to Florida for spring
Wygant Floral Co. 
break. Call Mary Ann 4552. 
Need ride to Detroit and-or back for Easter. Call Roger 1588. 
Flowers for all occassions 
327 Lincoln Way 
NEED RIDE TO D.C. WED., MAR. 22. WILL PAY. CALL
West~ 232-3354 
TOM 1409. 

NEED RIDE TO O'HARE ON MON OR TUES. CALL 3381.
Last Night "Lawrence of Arabia" 
NEED RIDE TO ST.LOUIS FOR BREAK. DENNIS 1374.
TOMORROW 
D!'sperate!y need ride to Cincinali
Plus -Co-Feature 

or vicinity this weekend .. P!ease call Ann£>, 5107. 
Richard 
2 qirls need ride to Florida. Call K,lthy, 5183 please•
Burton 
FOR SALE

ffVill • " 
I 310 
For S.11e: '63 VW. Good Condition. 
Phil 3444, Ned 2164.

[RJ MGMO 
ROBERTS 770X tape recorder: Cro>s F ie!d 11eads. sound on
This ad plus $1.00 ad­
o,ouncl. >ound withsound. 4 speeds. 
(,111 3729.

mits I student Sun. thru 
Thurs. Void April 1st, 
I or S.11e· '67 Honda 305. S400. 
C.1ll Grorqc 8327.
'72 
PERSONALS 

Three guys like to meet three SMC chicks. Call 3591, after 11. Supply references. 
HELP! Last Grasp on Last Legs? Can this be the Last Gasp?. 
Sentence is served tomorrow. Do you advise acquital? "cute qirl" 
NOTICES 

YOU. ISIS GALLERY, OLD FIELD HOUSE. FRI., SAT .• SUN .• 8. 9, 10 PM. 
Pnrts nnd Accessories for ! m ported Cars. Foreiqn Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roselnnd) 272-7187. 
Typinq Anytime Reasonable Prices. Chip (8256) or Mtke (6963). 
NASSAU TRIP MARCH 2431. 8 days nnd 7 niqhts with quad ac rom. Air fare and Hotel may be purchased separately. Limited number of seats available. Tickets on sale at Student Union Ticket office. $202 inclusive. puestions, call 7757. 
New 7th lhrouqh 9th grade classical christian school needs Enqlish. Latin, Math, Science teachers. Small salaries first year. Looking for qraduate students (preferably with Masters) to work part time while ilttending Notre Dame. Closing date tor applications March 19th. Send vita. references. etc. to Maqdalen School. P.0. Box 1225, South Bend 46624. 
TRY OUTS ND SMC FRESH MAN ND VARSITY CHEERLEADERS INVITE YOU TO CHEERLEADER TRYOUTS ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 3:30PM SUNDAY, MARCH 19 IN THE BASEMENT OF WALSH HALL. QUESTIONS? CALL JOE 6706 OR ROONEY 4041. 
Spend a day in Chicago before break this Saturday. 2 pm -2 am. 
Round trip bus tickets available $4 each. Call 6785 6-7 pm. Also Laura Nyro Chicago Auditorium tickets on same night. 
Detroit Club St. Patrick's Day celebration Friday March 17, 8:30 pm. 54115 Burdette St. BYO. All Invited. Call 272-2068 for info and ride. 
Cleveland Club Easter Bus GnrY 8150 
Pitt Club Ensler Bus Siqn ups and payment March 16 Thurs. 7:30 8:30 Room 2-D La Fortune 
Drive a ways now available to your home town. Inexpensive and convenient travel. Call 7843. 
Jackson Hole Ski Trip 2. places left $99. March 23 31. Lifts & lodqinq. Call 6875 Hurry. 
NO PLANS tor Easter vacation? Spend the first week of Spring in Hampson County, South Carolina. lutorinq elementary and high >chool students. Persons with rilrs especially needed; expenses will IJe m inim,ll. Also, additional SMC students needed. For further inforn1.1tion, call 4501 or 234 5889 (P,lu!l. 12001:00nm. 
JOBS ON SHIPS! MEN. WOMEN. Perfect summer iob or c,1reer No experience required. Excellent pny. Worldwide travel. S!'nd S2.00 for information. Srafax, Box 1239 IG. Seattle, Washinqlon 98111. 
GREAT WHITE HOPE Sat. 3:30. 7, 9. THE SHAMELE.SS OLD LADY. Sun 2, 8.. Carroll Hall Last Grasp. 

AD ··~ RATES ..,_ ..,.. 
Words lda 2da 3da 4da Sd.a 
. I·!'0;.' .u '95 1.15 .1.35 1.55 ~r:JS.,I.OO 1.501.85 2.10 2.40 

·:J... '•J9 ,J.Jo u5'"2.15..2:ss 2.95 
.'-~:r,,s t.7o 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 ·..,;a 26-30 2.10 J. I 5 3.95 4.75 5.45 .. .;)\-~5 2.45 'J.65 4.45 4.75 6. IS . '36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 ·u-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 1.10 a.2o 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 
-

·· H.1ndsomc Ll'alher BELTS 1\\,ldl' on campus. On display at
Cinema presen s 
Tony's Shoe Shop behind Adm. r>lc.Jq . .: 
,. -­
~­
A Fellini Festival 
Golf Cart for saie or rent. Call J io\1. 8906. 
Two >cts speakers. Utah; ·PvnAco: also cameras, en. 



81!2 
Thurs., March 16 7 and 9;30 pm 
cyclopedi.as. c?.ll 1678. 

. . .. ·-1;....----,,...-.. ­
•. For S.1t.e: '63 ~pmet ·' Excellent ( onditjon m_s·:.:e~~---3305.
.,.lm~~r~l);Je control of the Fresh-.)':· ';;fi\an Y'ear Office. He also stated ""!· 
JIJLIE~ OF 
···f N s.11e 2 Associationf.'l'ix for S6­-that the College of Arts and 
c. C.•ll 1)97, ask for Glen.n. ·' 
Letters needed this change to 

. <.TE~'EO SPEAKER SYSTEMS.
lessen its huge administrative 

· llo .111cl new full waranly. Call


THE SPIRITS
load.· 
763 8~62 
Hev. Burtchaell emphasized 

Fri., March 17 7 and 9:30pm
that ROTC courses will continue to receive the same credits as 

Engineering Auditorium
awarded to them by the various college councils. The three ROTC 

Admission $1.00 Cinema '72 patrons free 
commanders have lost their 



