
----~-~-----~---­


Law Chair to be temporary or permanent? 
by Mike Baum The Notre Dame Law School is presently discussing with the Administration the feasability of awarding one of their newly endowed Chairs on a temporary basis, rather than making it a permanent assignment. Endowed Chairs, usually financed by private in­dividuals of corporations, are one of the best methods for a University to enlarge it's teaching faculty. The University has at present six, almost seven of these Chairs, the last five being the result of contributions from the Summa campaign, and are not yet officially filled. University President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., noted at the announcement of these chairs that "the establishment of these chairs is a significant way of underwriting continuing academic distinction at Notre Dame. Named professorships enable the University to honor outstanding scholarship among its own teachers and to attract scholars of the first rank to the University." The Law School has two new Chairs, only one of which, the White Chair, can be considered fully funded. A result of the Summa drive and the recent Law School fund-raising campaign, the Chair represents a $500,000 gift from Mr. and Mrs. Thomas J. White.The other, the Kenneth Redman Chair, is presently being funded on year to year contributions. The Law School, according to Dean Thomas Shaffer, would like the White Chair opened for tem­porary appointments, such as Visiting Professorships, instead of being restricted to permanent appointments. 
! 

Shaffer:  Advocates  tern- Murphy:  Followed  
porary  Chair  ap­ tradition  and  awarded  
pointments.  permanent Chairs.  

The difference, according to Dean Shaffer, is the amount of freedom in awarding these Chairs. "We feel," he said, "that it will give us exposure to a wider array of people." Those teachers, for example, that don't want to be tied to a University for some con­siderable length of time could be hired. It requires of a teacher a "less drastic committment," in Dean Shaffer's words. 
In addition, it allows the school a margin of safety in the hiring of professors. The fact that a man is prominent in the field of law does not neccessarily guarentee that he will be a good teacher, as Dean 
I 
Shaffer pointed out, the surest judgment of teaching ability is based on performance. A temporary Chair requires a less drastic commitment on the part of the Law School also. 
The problem is the matter has two causes. First, named or endowed chairs are customarily permanent positions. The College of Business Administration recently faced the same question in searching for a man to take the C.R. Smith Chair of Business Ad­ministration. This Chair will be awarded permanently. 
Dean Thomas Murphy of the Business College ad­mits that there was "some discussion" on opening the Chair to temporary appointments, and that "some of the faculty" were in favor of it. However, endowed Chairs are awarded permanently "by tradition in American education," according to Murphy. 
The second obstruction, and the baSis for the discussion between the Law School and the Provost's office, is a document which Dean Shaffer refers to as "the Board of Trustees Regulations on Endowed Chairs", which have not been released to the public. 
According to Shaffer , these regulations "im­plicitly" require the Chairs to be permanent awards. 
Fr. Burtchaell agreed with this. The regulations do not allow temporarily-awarded chairs, he said. He pointed out, however, that this does not preclude the possibility of exceptions. Burtchaell also noted that they were "very far" from a decision on the point. 
The eventual decision will certainly have some effect on the other three Summa Chairs, in Chemistry, Philosophy, and Electrical Engineering. 
Inside 

Poll shows students against new academic schedule ... page 2 
Jazz Festival opens with panel discussion . page 9 
by Robert B. Semple Jr. 
(c) 1972 New_ York Times Washington, March 9-President Nixon today ordered all airlines to adopt new security measures immediately to prevent the sabotage of American commercial aircraft. -. In a strongly worded statement which followed an explosion this week aboard one commercial aircraft and the discovery of explosive devices on two others, Nixon ordered into effect new security regulations published two days ago in 
the federal register that, under normal cir­cumstances, would not have been implemented for 90 days. 
Recalling his efforts in 1970 to curtail hijacking, he said: 
"Our air transportation system faces a new threat in the form of vicious extortion plots like the ones which have been directed at air traffic across the country this week. We must not be intimidated by such lawlessness. Rather we must and will meet this blackmail on the ground, as vigorously as we have met piracy in the air." 
Nixon also disclosed that he had ordered John Volpe, the Secretary of Trasportation, to sum­mon "leaders of the aviation community" to discuss ways to implement the regulations. The executives of nearly 30 airlines are expected to meet with the secretary tomorrow morning. 
As sketched in general terms by the President, the regulations direct every air carrier to prevent or deter "carriage of weapons or ex­plosives" aboard aircraft; to prevent or deter "unauthorized access" to aircraft; to tighten baggage checking procedures; and to improve the security of cargo and baggage-loading operations. 
Officials said tonight that the federal aviation administration, which drew up the new regulations, has also devised a specific set of procedures which it is prepared to recommend to the airlines. These are said to include more electronic surveillance, more frequent baggage checks, and even personal inspection of in­dividual passengers. 
They conceded that some new manpower and equipment might be required, and said the costs "Nould be borne by the carriers. 
Gen. Benjamin Davis, an assistant secretary of transportation who briefed newsmen this afternoon, said the antihijacking program curretnly in effect involves a rapid screening process under which potential hijackers are identified on the basis of a complex four-part "profile" separated from other passengers, and detained. He said the same profile would apply to extortionists. 

., However, he conceded, not all airlines had vigorously followed the hijacking procedures, and that in any case the antihijacking program was aimed largely at passengers. Any new program to deter extortionists, he suggested, would have to involve more careful surveillance of baggage and airline employees-maintenance personnel for example. 
Nixon also said he had directed the depart­ment of transportation to invoke new security regulations governing airport operators, in addition to the carriers. The effect of these regulations, he said, would be to segregate the public rigidly from operating areas at airports, thereby creating a "security envelope" around the aircraft and its "supporting systems and personnel." 

'S no fun at Notre Dame, but Florida's only twelve days away ... 

Fraudulent authors! 
One indicted, another suspected 
Stories on pages 3 and 12 

Observer Insight 

Students nix new schedule 
by Stan Podlasek 
Students polled last night in a random survey voiced 
II :2 opposition to Notre Dame's schedule next semester. The question asked of residents in fourteen halls was:Are you in favor of the planned schedule change for next semester? 

Yes  13  14.4 per cent  
No  71  79.0 per cent  
Undecided  :1  3.3 per cent  
Indifferent  3  3.3 per cent  

Heasons given for opposition were threefold: 1) The early beginning would cause a conflict with summer jobs: 2) The one week vacations would not benifit student's whose distance from school made travel too expensive and time-consuming; and 3) Christmas vacation remained too long. 
"I can make $125.00 in one week, if late registration only costs $25.00, I'm going to come a week late." "I don't want to go to school on labor day." 
Many who recalled the scortching days of August regarded the weather as a major concern. However, it is not a matt~r of convenience in many cases. From the students voicing a "no" answer the early com­mencement of classes was the largest cause of disappointment. 
"I need the money; many companies won't hire people that can't work the entire summer, and jobs are hard enough to find." 
For students who remain here for Thanksgiving, the increase of a few days will make no difference. 
"It costs me $80.00 round trip to New Jersey. I can't afford to pay that much." "What good are three-day weekends? Two day weekends are dull enough here." "What can you do in three days; I'd rather have them lumped together." 

~-St~d~~ts who didn't like the plan suggested that 
Christmas vacation be made still shorter rather than 
opening the. school year earlier. 
"lwouidn't mind clipping a couple of days off at Christmas if we didn't have to come back so early." 
The greatest support for the change was in the midwest where opposition ran only five to two. Other parts of the country, including all of the foreign students polled, heavily opposed the plan. Many students revealed that they had already signed a petition expressing their disapproval. Most were skeptical, however, of the ability to chang the UAC's decision. 
"I would like to see the schedule changed, but I don't know how much ofa chance there is ofthat." "I doubt they're going to reverse their decision." 
Upper-classmen agreed that there was a need for a semester break, but said that free time should not be supplemented by adding days in August. 
"It will disrupt everyone's summer plans. Many people take vacations in the last weeks of August; others count on an extra week's wages." 
There seems to be a great undercurrent of student empathy. People who stated openly that the new schedule would be to their advantage didn't hesitate to add that they didn't feel it was "fair to everyone in­volved." 
"I hope the University will reconsider." 

Some students resented the votes cast in favor of the new schedule by the seven student members of the liAC. "Why wasn't the student body consulted about the change? many ask. In view of the fact that the change was introduced to the HPC as early as February first, it is clear that the new schedule was not made as well-known as it could have been. 
What will happen now is uncertain. Not all the students agreed about the entire schedule, but 80 per cent confirm that their opinions should have been considered more seriously. The students are not asking that the entire new schedule be scrapped, but they are 
asking for more awareness of their personal needs. 

MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15p.m. Sat. Fr. Bob Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. Jim Buckley, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Aidan Kavanagh, O.S.B. 
12:15 p.m. Sun. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 
Vespers: 4:30pm ·Our Lady's Chapel 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 


Popular student opmton opposed as students on the new academic meeting in Badin Hall try 

MCAT 
Preparation for 
Medical College 
Admissions Test 
For information write GRADUATE Studies Center, Dept. MTS P.O. Box 386, New York N.Y. 10011 
Fellini Festival 
March 13-17 
I Vitelloni, La Strada, La Dolce Vita, 8V2, Juliet of the Spirits 
calendar becomes more 
to decide what _ _:_to::__:d:o~---------===:=::=:=:::::::::::::::::::=:==:~
about it. 

Calendar protestr 2400 sign petition within two hours 
by Mary Romer 
Within two hours last night, 2400 students signed a petition to change the new academic calendar for next year. The new schedule, as approved by the Academic Council three days ago, calls for the opening of school on August 31, an eight day Thanksgiving break and a three day weekend October 14-16. 
Prompted by popular disap­pointment with the new schedule Badin Hall freshman Mike Davis drew up the petition. Davis said they hoped to get more names later last night by canvassing the halls, the library and the Huddle. It was circulated in the dining halls also last night. 
The petition will be presented to Rev. James Burtchaell, C.S.C., University Provost. 
The main objection to the calendar is the reduction of time for summer jobs and the Christmas vacation. The cutback on working time could mean as much as a $300 loss in some cases. 
Any student wishing to help with the petitioning can contact Mike Davis at 6938. The petitioning will be continued in the dining halls tomorrow night. 




FRANKIE'S 
EVERYDAY DINNER 
SPECIALS Ocean Perch $1.25 10 oz. Rib-Eye Steak $1.50 
-V2 Broasted Chicken $1.50 Includes Tureen Soup, Salad, Bread, Butter And Coffee Planning a Party? Frankie's has Special Rates for Student Parties! 
The South Shore Railroad is trying to discontinue 37 passenger trains. 
This means a severe reduction in South Bend service. H you have the privelege of voting, it's your responsibility to express your opinions! 
Attend public hearings! 
Monday, March 13 7:00pm Public Library South Bend 


ON CAMPUS MAIL 
-LAST PICKUP THIS FRIDAY (3/1 0/72) BETWEEN 1 PM AND 2 PM. 
-THERE WILL NO MORE PICKUPS AFTER THE ABOVE DATE. 


the observer
Friday, March 10. 1972 



In an effort to give the newly enfranchised student l•t• aJ voter an opportunity to be heard, Purdue University
Student PO l 10 Student Government has scheduled the first Indiana Student Political Convention.convention slated Between 500 and 1000 delegates will gather at Purdue-Lafayette, April 21-23 to listen to major
"or La"ayette 

Presidential Candidates, draft a platform relevant 
l 1 

l' to student needs, to further inform students of political process through workshops. All national presidential candidates and state candidates have been invited to speak. While in 

fF:;Jl:~;::?J Toohey: Prove it! 

~l By Henry Raymont ;:;;: (c) 1972 New York Times News Service 
f.:~ 

::;:: New York, March 9-The authenticity of a published 
::;: memoir--a best-seller here and abroad-by a man claiming to ~;: be a 101-year-old Sioux Chief is being seriously questioned by ;::: some of the country's leading authorities on American In­::;: dians and challenged in a lawsuit charging plagarism. ~;: Published a year ago this week by McGraw-Hill, Inc., the ;~:! book, "The Memoirs of Chief Red Fox," has just been issued :;:;: as a paperback by Fawcett. The hard-cover edition , which !:1~ sells at $6.95 a copy, has gone through at least seven prin­·::; tings, sold about 100,000 copies and made the author, William :;:; Red Fox, a sought-after television celebrity. :;:; The plagarism charges stem from evidence indicating :;:; that some 12,000 words have been drawn almost word for :;:; word from a book published in 1940. Itis "The Wounded Knee ::1: Massacre: From the Viewpoint of the Sioux," by James H. :;:; McGregor, which historians and ethnologists consider the :;:; classic in the long struggle to get federal compensation for ::;: injustices committed against the Indians. :;:; The Red Fox memoir claims, among other things, that the :;:; author, a self-styled former vaudeville and movie actor, :;:; played an eminent role as a champion of Indian Rights-a :;~; claim that also won him praise from President Nixon for :;:; "The outstanding leadership and direction you have given to :;:; your people." The occasion was a centenary greeting on June :;:; 11, 1970, nine months before the book was published. :;:: An extensive inquiry by the New York Times has failed to :;:; produce any evidence to corroborate the origins alledged by 
:!t:x:::~i~;:!:~:~~~~:;:~~~~!:==:=:==:==::::=::==::==:::::::::::::::;:;:::;:;:Jil 
Commencement plans 
announced by Pilleretti 
Senior Class President Tom Pifferetti announced yesterday that plans for the 1972 Com­mencement Exercises in May are already in the planning stages and that all plans for housing accomodations for parents and guests on campus have been taken care of. 
"Housing for parents will remain basically the same as last year," Pifferetti said, "parents will be housed in various dorms on campus for a very nominal price per night." 
Senior parents will be sent a packet of information in about two weeks which will includ" an application form enabling them to request any one of a series of dorms and the number of rooms they will need. A letter of ex­planation and a tentativeschedule of events for the weekend will also be enclosed in the packet. Seniors will be sent a copy of the letter. 
"There is no limit to the number of guests permitted," Pifferetti stated. "but Seniors ar_e 

~--------------~ 
Clothes and things Men's Boutique 


"On the Mall" -McKinley Town & Country Shopping Center-Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 259­7:13.'; 
asked to keep the number reasonable." 
In order for all the forms to be sent out properly, and to facilitate further Com­mencement plans, seniors are urged to check their name and room number for any discrepancies ~n the computer lists which will be posted in the lobbies of each hall throughout next week, and to make any necessary corrections. 
As far as the graduation ceremonies themselves are concerned, Pifferetti confirmed that the University is hoping to change the ceremonies, "perhaps to make them less formal and more personal." Class representatives have been asked to sit on the planning committee. 
Pifferetti said that anyone who would like to contribute ideas or has any questions concerning housing or the Commencement weekend can contact him at 234­8234 or leave a message in the Student Government offices. 

[~j~ Rev. William Toohey , C.S.C., 
:;:;: Director of Campus Ministry, :;:~ released the following statement ;:;~ regarding the Kersten coronation :;:~ plans. ed. 
!:1:! A number of inquiries have ;:~: reached me about the an­;:;:; nouncement King Kersten made ;:~: about his coronation in Sacred :1:1: Heart Church. I believe it should ::;:; be revealed that I, too, have been ~:1: in. coml_llunication with God on :::: this topic. ;:;: 1 was instructed to go to the ;:;; chapel of Walsh Hall, where I ;::; found, near a statue of the Infant :;:~: of Prague, a tape recorder. The !:1:: message ( on a tape which then :;:;: immediately self-destructed) 
,~:~ told me to go to the Shrine at the 
;::;:  Fatima  Retreat  House  for  a  
;:;:  "Fatima  letter"  with  further  
;:::  information.  

;:;: I found the following letter: ;:;:. "Happy to consider coronation 
;:;; :;:;: :;:;: ::;:: 
:;:~ 
possibilities to be held in My House for King Kersten, if he can pass a series of credibility tests. The first of these will be to walk 
New constitution pro posed for ND 
A proposed new constitution was unveiled last night at a meeting of the Notre Dame student Senate. It was described 
by Ed Ellis,  a  member of the  
constitution  committee  as  a  
constitution  "that  will  give  

student government some real power." 
The proposed constitution, which was drawn up by a com­mittee made up of St. Mary's-Notre Dame students, provides for a concentration of all student governments power into a Board of Commissioners, composed of six elected representatives from assigned districts, the chairman of the Hall Presidents COUtlCil, the Student Body President and 
'd t th SBP ld beP
Vice-resi en ' e wou chairman. 
The members of this board would also serve as the student representatives to the Student 
Life Council and assume all the powers of the Student Senate. Ellis felt that "by creating such a board we can formulate unified 
~~~============~--~ 
GRADUATE 








STUDENTS 
The GRADUATE STUDENT UNION announces that NOMINATIONS for President Vice President Secretary -Treasurer 
are NOW being accepted 
NOMINATIONS close MARCH 17. INTERESTED STUDENTS should contact the GSU office on the 4th Floor Ad. Bldg. or call 8752 
Lafayette, delegates will be housed at minimum cost. The main floor of the convention will be the Lambert Field House with workshops taking place at many surrounding buildings. 
The steering committee consists of Pete 
Prizevoits, chairman; Anthony De Bonis, rules and credentials; Bill Caudell, workshops;· Gary Ubelhoer, university relations; Wayne Johnson, interstate university relations and publications. 
The mailing address is Box 645, Purdue Memorial Center, West Lafayette, Indiana 47906. 

prove it. 

on water-specifically, across St. Joseph lake, beginning at one· minute past midnite, April Fool's Day. Upon completion of this demonstration of authenticity, further instructions will be sent. On the other hand, should King K. fail (for which it would seem a miracle would be necessary), I want you to be sure he receives every final consideration, with appropriate services, if possible." 
It was signed: "The King's King." 
student government policy." 
Following the discussion, amendments to the constitution were discussed by Stay Senator Bob Sauer. Sauer closed with the announcement of a new meeting next Tuesday at 7:00 in the ampitheater, at which time the Senate would have the op­portunity to pass decision on the bill. 
Sauer also announced that he would discuss the proposal with SBP-elect Bob Kersten. 

J 
V0 l U NTE E R S 
(FRONTIER APOSTULATEl needs teachers, tradesmen, office and kitchen help, nurses. One 
thousand have Shared since 1956. ·' Long hours, hard work, no pay. 
<Room and board plus $25 month.) Accept challenge of missionary diocese: Bring faith and love;
find hope, fulfillment. Write today. Bishop Fergus O'Grady, 
o.M. 1. 778 College Road, Prince George, B.C., Canada 


Citroen 
Front wheel drive, power assisted rack & pinion 'steering, hydropneumatic suspension for constant level ride, aerodynamic design and elegant interiors. What more can you ask for? 
sed Specials Of T eek 
71 850 FIAT SPIDER Like new 70 124 FIAT SPORTS COUPE Real Sharp-An excellent buy 70 OLDS TORNADO Loaded -13,000 actual miles 69 CITROEN A Choice of Two Pallas and D Special SEE THE 128 FIATS Economy Car of the Year 


___..You like people 
___..Are willing to listen to their problems ___..Want to learn how to 
help them 
___..Are not lookingforcom­pensations 
___.. But are willing to pre­re for a life of dedication to rs by bringing to them the d news" of Jesus' I ife, h, and resu_rrection. This ns prayer, work, study, and ntinued self-giving,lifeofthe 
For young Catholic Men 

e
interested in the Priesthood ~ . or Brotherhood. 
Contact: Bro. Kevin O'Malley, C.P. Passionist Community, Dept. C 5700 N. Harlem Ave. Chicago, Ill. 60631 

PROOF 


OPEN
Nixon's campaign builds 
OF AGE 

(c) l!li2 New York Times 
Washington, March 9 President Nixon's Political operatives are clearly using the early presidential primaries as training grounds for next fall's nationwide election, and there is no better illustration of this than their activities in Florida. 
The Committee to re-{!lect the President -the hub of the Nixon operation with headquarters across the street from the White House on Pennsylvania Ave. -is, of course, anxious to make the best possible showing in these early contests. The Committee was pleased with the New Hampshire results and hopes to do even better next Tuesday, in Florida, where representatives Paul McCloskey and John Ash­brook are again on the ballot opposing the President. 
But to anyone who has traveled to the primary states it is plain that the Committee's efforts to get out the vote now are also aimed at improving its capacities and techniques next November. 
To take one small illustration: the only mass mailing so far in Florida -a letter to about half the State's 800,000 registered · Republicans -contained not only 
-f 



Davi~s: Nixon's good-will. trip amends 1944 policy mistakes 
by Don Hopfer 
Calling President Nixon's recent to China "one of recon­ciliation, an attempt to repair damage done", John Paton Davies, noted author and former member of the State Depart­ment's Foreign Service, lectured last night in the Library Auditorium on "China and the United States: The Balance of Power." 
"We would not have become enemies if, in 1944, we would have had a different policy". Davies felt that our backing of the Chinese Nationalists under Generalissimo Chiang Kai-Shek caused the Communists to seek support from the only other available source-Moscow. 
While Davies was a member of the American consulate in China during the war, he had a chance to deal with the present premier of China, Chou en-Lai. He said that everyone who has met Chou, himself included, have been "enormously impressed" by the personal charm of the man. 
He continued that there were only two other men with this common trait of tremendous personal magnetism: noted philosopher Teilhard De Chardin and the late prime minister of India's Jawaharla Nehru. "Of these, De Chardin was the most vibrant, Nehru the softest, and Chou the supplest-sinewy and bending." 
Nixon: Low-key Florida strategy 
a reminder to vote for Nixon on March 14 but an appeal for volunteers to fill vacancies in the party organization at the county and precinct level. 
In addition, several young specialists in direct mail ad­vertising, youth organization, and other areas have been dispatched to Florida from headquarters here to on-the-job training. And when one asks leading Florida Republicans about Nixon's opposition, they do not talk about Ashbrook and McCloskey -the immediate challengers -but about George Corley Wallace, who is perceived as the real threat next fall. 

I 
Davies briefly recounted our relations with the East, dating from the time when the first clipper ships established trade with Japan and China. 
He recalled the time when the Japanese were attempting to expand in the mid-30's: Japan had always looked upon the US as imperialists, and they thought us rather hypocritical for "being so self-righteous" about their own expansions. The bitter feelings that ensued as a result of this culminated in the attack on Pearl Harbor. 
Mr. Davies was born in China. His parents were stationed there as di lomatic He 
HJVcK PAKK
..................... 
MISHAWAKA AVI. ~T JOTH. 
ACADEMY AWARD 

ONTENP_ERS 
In everyone's life there's a SUMMER OF '42 


JANE


FONDA 
DONALD 


SUTHERLAND 
r-1111ana1anJ oakula 1111 t 1
.'5 oroouctoon U • 
DAILY 12:45 
Three other aspects to the 
0

Nixon Florida operation that -..R._E.•Q•U•l•R•E=-• 
suggest something about his present and future strategy: 
-It is so low-key as to be almost inaudible, and so low-profile as to be almost invisible , compared to the Democratic campaigns. 
-It is being run largely from Washington, despite the assertion here yesterday by Francis Dale, Titular Chairman of the Re­election Committee, that "we take most of our keys from, our state organizations." 
-It has a clear "southern" cast to it-the people who are speaking on the President's behalf are almost always conservatives ­despite statements here recently by some Nixon operatives that they intended to run the "same" campaign in all 50 states. 
With one eye trained on November, the Nixon forces have made no pretense at separating the Florida Committee to re-{!lect the President from the State Republican Committee, which is theoretically supposed to remain impartial as long as more than one Republican is on the ballot. Indeed, the Chairman of both groups is one and the same man: -"Tommy" Thomas of Panama City. 
served in the Foreign Service in the USSR, Peru, Germany, and China. Before the Chinese Civil War, he predicted the conquest of that country by the Communists. 
In 1954, he suggested to the State Department that the US resign itself to the inevitable Communist role and set-up relations with the Communist regime. Because of the intense McCarthy-sponsored in­vestigations at the time, Davies underwent eight loyalty tests, only to be fired by then Secretary of State John Foster Dulles, because he refused to capitulate. Hewaslaterreinstated,afterthe 

ENDS TUESDAY 

PAPA GALLO 
SECOND FEATURE 
I'M NO VIRGIN
I I 
Last Grasp presents 
3 Anti-War Films 
Fd. 3:30, 7, 9 

King and Country 
with Tom Courteney & DirkBogarde 
Sat. 3:30, 7, 9 

General della Revere 
with de Sica, by Rosselini 
Sun. 2, 8 

Fires on the Plain 
By lch ikawa Kon Carroll Hall 75~ or subscription 
denunciation o~f~M~c~C~a~r~th~y~.--~========::==================================~ 
1




~--WANT TO TRY A TRULY 
I UNIQUE "ACADEMIC" AND HUMANITARIAN EXPERIENCE? The NO Knights of Columbus will be collecting for the MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY ASSN. TOMORROW ; MARCH 11; and needs volunteers to help. Help us to help someone else;to fight this crippling disease. 

JOIN THE FIGHT AGAINST MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY 
For more informution about how you can HELP; contact Don White (3374) or call the KNIGHTS of COLUMBUS at 7018. 
There'll be a PARTY for all workers! --And a substantial gift certificate for the male & female collecting the most money!! 
··--------------------------~-------------------_J 


Less Chinese support? 
Sato predictsNixon trip consequences 
<c) 1972 New York Times News Service Tokyo, March 8 -Premier Eisaku Sato of Japan predicted in an interview today that communist China would "draw a line" and "voluntarily limit its support of the Vietnamese , Communists, as a consequence of President Nixon's visit to the mainland. Sato did not pretend to have any information on this point, despite the briefing given him at Nixon's request by United States Assistant Secretary of State Marshall Green. But he did express the opinion that the presidential journey to China had been a "great and significant event in history" and also had been "very effective in reducing tensions in Asia." 
Obviously expressing his personal in· terpretation of the new Far Eastern situation. the Premier added: "I expect that new talks on Indochina Peace will start soon and that they will be based on the recent U.S. proposal." 
Apart from his observations on the prospects of Vietnam Peace·-a subject on which Sato admitted he had not been informed in his briefing by Green -Sato said Japan was most anxious to have President Nixon pay this country an official visit. 
Sato said he thought it would be more suitable for Emperor Hirohito, this country's Chief of State, to make an official visit to the United States first; after that, Nixon would come to Japan. 
Sato indicated that such a formula would permit the Emperor to express the gratitude he and his country felt for American aid after World War II. 
The impression given by Sato was that, despite a desire to arrange this exchange swiftly, it might not be possible before 1973 because of the American political campaign. 
The Premier also made the following points: 
-Talks aimed at arranging a formal peace treaty between Japan and the Soviet Union, thus putting an end to World War II as far as those two countries are concerned, will commence before the end of this year. 
-Tokyo would look with favor on a nonagression pact among Russia, China, the United States and Japan-but only if it includes a clause providing for sanctions against any violation of such an agreement. 
-He implied the United States should limit its base facilities in Japan to positions required to help protect this country under the Security Treaty rather than to support any U.S. com­mitments elsewhere in Asia. 
Nevertheless, he stressed that an American Military presence was necessary to ward off Russian threats. 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 HI 
Farley residents 
CO-EX TICKET LIST 
organize donC?rS Friday, March 10--Breen Phillips, Stanford for dying girl 
Saturday, March 11-No exchange; SMC soph weekend Three year old Michele Jordan 
is dying of leukemia. Thanks to Sunday, March 12-·Cavanaugh, Sorin Hank Zielinski and his friends she 
may live a little longer. Monday, March 13-·Grace, St. Eds. Zielinski was moved when he 
heard about Michele's condition Tuesday, March 14--Pangborn, Farley . and after going downtown to give 
blood, he talked it up among his Wednesday, March 15-·Fisher, Morrissey friends in Farley. 
Michele is now in Wylers Thursday, March 16--Flanner, Grace Children's Hospital of the 
University of Chicago. Any type Friday, March 17-·Flanner, Dillon of blood can be given at the Blood 
Bank, 212 W. Navarre Ave., South 
Bend, for her benefit. 
l=riday, March 10, 1972 the observer 

_____:__:;:===:::===:::============5 
Pandora's Golden Heebie-Jeebies Enter the Young Cherish Windy Goodbye Columbus 
Never My love 
Everything That Touches You Along Comes Mary Six Man Band 
Requlm for the Masses 
No fair at All 
Time for livin' and more.... arch 18 Stepan Center 8:00 p 
$3.50 

Tickets on Sale NOW at Dinin Halls 
-Feature Times-· 1:45 3:45 5:45 7:45 and 9:45 

ABC PICTURES CORP presents 

DUSTIN HI:IFFMAN 
COLOR (!!r~ 
ACADEMY AWARD NOMINEE , BEST ORIGINAL DRAMATIC 
1i~_OR_E _ . ,_,_.. =--=------.....---­
Special Notice: ""Straw Dogs"' unleashes such dramatic Intensity that this theatre is scheduling a 5-mlnute Interval between s/1 performances. 
CJF performances begin tonight at Stepan Center 






COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL 
Tonight at 7:30 pill -adlllission $3.00 tolllorrow at 1:30 pill and 7:30 pill Saturday afternoon perforlllance $2.00 Saturday evening session $3.00 
Roberta Flack, Aynsley Dunbar, Dan Morganstern, 
Jamie Aebersold, Hubert Laws and George Russell. 
tickets available at the door of Stepan Center 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
~--~-~~ 

-~------~ ---~ ~---~-----­
the observer Friday, March 10, 1972 



THE OBSERVER 


News: 283-1715 EditoriaI: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Jim Jendryk Editor~in-chief Business Manager 
Don Ruane Bill Bauerle Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 

The endowed Chairs 

The establishment of endowed chairs from the money generated by the SUMMA drive marks the University's emergence into a new academic era. Permanently funded professorships are a luxury most universities, especially small private ones, simply cannot afford to any great extent. The creation of five, possibly six, endowed chairs represents (along with the minority scholarship fund) the most significant improvement in the long term academic excellence of Notre Dame to emerge in several years. 
Professor Dennis Dugan of the department of economics estimated that the funds required to support these five professorships range from one and a half million to two million dollars. The exact amount, of course, depends on the salary and growth arrangements of the fund. When one considers that Harvard runs on an endowment in excess of two billion dollars, establishing five permanent seats from ND's meager endowment of $67.9 million is a major accomplishment. 
The Rules For some reason, however, the Board of Trustees has already promulgated regulations governing the appointments to these chairs. These rules are probably an outgrowth of the original SUMMA plan when twenty-five such positions were planned. Now that some appointments are being made, it seems quite arbitrary to strictly follow rules formulated several years ago. Fortunately, the rules are anything but arbitrary. The Provost is allowing Dean Shaffer plenty of latitude in selecting the people to fill his two chairs. In the Law school, especially, this makes sense. If Shaffer is able to persuade someone on the caliber of an ex-Supreme Court Justice or a prominent legislator to ac­cept the law chair, he will undoubtedly add to the University's academic prestige. But, as the dean himself ad­mitted, there is no guarantee that a prominent politician will be able to teach law. Temporary? 
If Shaffer can produce a professor of national acclaim and if the terms of his agreement involve the designation "visiting professor," then there is no reason stifle the academic potential of the endowed chair by unilaterally for­bidding temporary arrangements. Shaffer's appointment is not an ex­ception--how can there be exceptions when there are almost no precedents to establish the rule itself? The only existing named endowed professorship is the Jesse Jones Chair in management. 
There are no precedents now, only 
potential. This potential should be 
developed in a manner that improves the 
academic quality of the University. 
That's the best rule. 

John Abowd 
The parents and the trustees 

The continuing mass of misinformation 
and confusion about the state of the 
merger may be cleared a little this 
weekend, if the organizers of the soph­
more parents weekend take advantage of 
the St. Mary's Trustees meeting. 

There is no denying that the two groups 
have something to say to each other. The 
parents' concern for the standards of 
education at SMC requires answers from 
the trustees, who have control of the 
education. The department chairmen will 
not have all the answers'!' they are in the 
dark too. The decisions, the knowledge, 
the planning are all contained in the 
Board, and its principal members: Sister 
Alma, Sister Gerald,. and Mother 
Olivette. They have the answers. 

The opportunity is there-and the need is there. The sophmores, perhaps more than any other class, will be affected by the merger or its total breakdown. The decision to transfer or stay presses on the sophmores more than anyone else. The organizers of the Parents Weekend, Maureen Rogers and Jill Hampe, should arrange the meeting -and the Board should meet with the parents. 
Jim McDermott 
Sign it 

The thought of school starting in August, and still ending in May, has caused little happiness on the campus. The problems are obvious. When students are forced to rely more and more on their summer earnings to finance college expenses, shortening the summer vacation for an eight-day Thanksgiving break is senseless. 
Students are now circulating a petition asking that the administration or University Academic Council reverse the decision on the Calendar. There is no chance that the calendar will be changed if the petition cannot get any support. It's in the interests of all students to sign the petition. It's our schedule, we should be heard in its formulation. 
Jim McDermott 

31n1: Hong wl1;h tho Shtl!r• 
For w hat it's worth111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

Let's take a stand 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Don RUane 
Although a cool breeze was blowing in off the ocean, the afternoon of 
July 12, 1971 was a hot, dusty time for some twenty-odd young men 
who were kicking, heading, and dribbling a half inflated soccer ball up 
and down a sun parched field in Atlantic City, N.J. 
It was more than just a pick up game; it had to be unless they were 
just plain crazy to want to run around on a field strewn with broken 
glass, and just a little smoother than the frozen mud characteristic of 
the shortcuts to the library. 
These men, all university students who came to the resort from 
overseas for the summer, were showing the world, in their small way, 
that rival factions can coexist under circumstances conducive to 
outbursts of temper and emotion at least. 
The players, and the dozen or so girls along the side lines, were 
natives of Northern Ireland, where at least 15 have been killed and 189 
injured since Jan. 30. 
The game was organized because the students wanted to prove that 
Protestants and Catholics from the Emerald Isle could get together 
without any of the religious and political strife that has brought 
terrorism, colonialism, humiliation, fear, anger, hatred, suffering, 
and death to their home. 
It was also played on this particular day to celebrate the Battle of 
the Boyne, which was fought in 1690. The battle determined that 
William III <William of Orange) of England would rule Ireland. 
William defeated an overthrow attempt by James II, a Protestant who 
had given civil and military power to the Catholics. This power was 
revoked when Queen Elizabeth II forced her Protestant faith upon the 
Irish. 
Since then Ireland has been fighting for its release from the British 
tyranny, and the religious struggle to fill the power vacuum. 
Although the Northern Catholic squad didn't have the cheerleading support the Protestant southern team had, it dominated the game scoring four goals in the first half, and two more in the second while holding the opposition scoreless. 
But the score really didn't matter. No one offered excuses of dirty play by the North, or tried to embarrass the Southwith ridicule of their soccer prowess. No one made any hint that those of one faith were inherently superior to the other. 
As if this wasn't enough to rekindle some of the hope that sanity remains in the world, handshakes and congratulations were in order, and the captains of both teams shared an ice cream bar, supplied by the local good humor man who recognized an international market ready for the probing claws of American capitalism. 
Change this entire scene to Drogheda, Northern Ireland, where the River Boyne empties into the Irish Sea, and you would have a game interrupted by British paratroopers with itchy trigger fingers; gelignite filled nail bombs; and completed with a tar and feathering of the losers. 
Like other atrocities in the deranged world, we have followed the fighting Irish for some time as it popped in and out of the news, and now as they consistently grab banner headlines while intensifying, without taking any sort of position for or against the British oc­cunation. 
This campus has become blase since Spring '70, at least as far as such issues as Northern Ireland go. Anyone who wants to refute this statement can check the per capita donation to the Pakistan Relief f<'und. It was less than 20 cents. No one asked you for the type of donation Notre Dame seeks from its alumni, or to save the world, just to sacrifice a trip to food sales or maybe a six pack. Is it too much to ask for such a stand, or to spend an hour or two marching and petitioning for a cause? 
Now thanks to graduate student Denise Askin, the campus has another chance to show some moral backbone through the Notre Dame Committee for Ulster Justice, which is part of a national committee gathering congressional support in Washington for a 
resolution requesting the British to end the Northern Ireland
The Staff 

atrocities and initiate reform promised in 1968, including the with­
Nite Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Jerry Lutkus drawal of troops and negotiations for reunification of the island. It also Ass't Nite Editresses: Maria Gallagher, Managing Editor: Joe Abell urges a boycott of British goods.Marlene Zloza St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher 
If you don't want to give time or money, let this committee know so
Specia I Guest Ass't Editress: Kathy Editorial Editor: Jim McDermott 
it won't waste time in the home of the Fighting Irish. We are already
McDermott (the sister, natch) Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 
late as to taking a position, but we still have time to make next
Day Editors: Tom Drape, Peter O'Fries(?) Features Editor: Rod Braye 
f<'riday a happy St. Patrick's Day.
Typists: Pat Kenny, Lucy Rodarte, Dianne The Editorial Board consists of: John Abowd, 
If you can afford any form of help it should be offered to the NDCUJ 
Chermside, Helen Smudskl, Barb Norcross, and Don Ruane, Joe Abell, Jim McDermott, Jerry sweet Annie Conway Lutkus, Maria Gallagher, Jim Donaldson, and so that everyone will be able to share that ice cream bar before it dawntreader: mark j. niederkorn Rod Braye melts in the fires of Ulster, Vietnam, and the Middle East. 
~-~-~--~--------­
---------~--------­
the observer

Friday, March 10, 1972 


Viewpoint--student 
This is written in response to T. C Treanor's recent article in The Observer, in which he interpreted the election of Bob Kersten as a satirical manifestation of the immaturity of the Notre Dame student 
reflections

body. According to Mr. Treanor, the success of Kersten's campaign style shows that the only way to reach the Notre Dame student body is through an appeal to baser 0 n instincts. 
The implication from Treanor's article 
b 

is that the mature and intelligent response p0 0 a 
would have been to vote for Dziedzic in the 

hism


runoff election, thereby preserving the student political establishment from the insane satire of Mr. Kersten. As one of the Notre Dame "rabble" who voted for the Prime Mover, however, I would like to suggest that the election of Bob Kersten cannot be simply passed off as an in­dication of student immaturity and that the nature of the satire staged by Kersten is more complex than Mr. Treanor and other defenders of poobahism would have us believe. In particular, I will attempt to describe the campaign of Bob Kersten in terms of a satire upon the vocation and mentality of poobahism. 
On the most obvious level, Bob Kersten's campaign was a witty, and at times brilliant, slam against the oligarchical student political establishment at Notre Dame. It is hardly necessary for me to repeat the standard satire against the poobah as the higb school "hot shot" who satisfies his desire for getting ahead in the world by joining the elite who have secured a niche in La Fortune student center, The inflated egos of the student political figures at Notre Dame were clearly the tal'get of much of Kersten's attack. But it was more than just an attack on the personal conceit of poohbahs. The more important grievance against the student political mavericks lies in their blind adherence to what may be termed the "poobah mentality." The "poobah" mentality is characterized by the belief that although Notre Dame has serious academic and social defects, these problems can be readily eliminated and that they <i.e., the poobahs) are them­selves the instruments of such reform. 
When carried to an extreme, this men­
tality can provide the student politician, find fat asses." Although Mr. Dziedzic's 
with the image of himself as the savior of the proletariat, the leader of a new revolution which will transform Notre Dame into the "Harvard" of the Midwest. 
The gravitation towards this extreme manifestation of the poobah mentality is na more evident than during the election campaigns for Student Body President, and this year's campaigns were no ex­ception. Aside from King Kersten's campaign and the less effective campaign of Mr. Thomas, the remaining candidates had similar campaign promises. Although none of them wore crowns or explicitly claimed that th~y were uttering the will of the divine, they all had a set of formulas for improving the social, academic, and financial lives of Notre Dame students. Through a combination of co-ed dorms, the extension of the pass-fail option, an attac~ on the malicious refrigerator fine, and a call for the raising of the endowment for minority funds, the various presidential candidates believed that they could transform the condition of life at Notre 
Jerry McElroy 
Even though the promises of the can­didates this year were particularly unoriginal and hardly seemed to indicate that the candidates grasped the com­plexity of the problems which they spoke about so confidently, each of the can­didates made noble efforts to drum up support for his brand of reform. Realizing, of course, that it would be foolish to hold up John Barkett's administration as an example of how poobahs have saved the ignorant proletariat from the exploitative Administration, all of the candidates made a special point of slinging mud at Barkett. Paul Dziedzic, in response to the demand that he defend the state of student government, pointed out "that's bullshit. I have never considered myself a poobah." Tlw Observer, caught up by Dziedzic's "new approach," declared that he had the courage, intelligence, and responsibility, to "fight in the student body" and to prevent the Trustees from running the university with a carte blanche. To justify their portrayal of Mr. Dziedzic as a "knight in shining armor," the Observer noted that Dziedzic had told John Barkett to "go to hell" when he disagreed with Barkett's position on the strike at St. Mary's. This same sort of courage and individuality was manifest when Dziedzic asserted that he would "kick ass where we 
vocabulary did set him apart in some way from the other candidates, a closer ob­servation of his position on the standard campaign pledges revealed that he was another faceless poobah parading before our wearied eyes. 
The failure of the poobahs to transform the lives of the students in quite the manner in which they implied they would seems to call into question the validity of their immense claims. Even more disturbing than their failure to live up to their promises, however, is their uncanny knack for building up an inefficient organ of bureaucracy, which is so unwieldy that it is beyond the ordinary student's controL Consider. for example, the Cultural Arts Commission's cancellation of the Spring Folk Festival as a result of "mismanagement of control dealings." The Treasurer of the Student Government, ('ass Regent, is reported to have said that he'd rather not "talk figures" about this particular matter since it might "scare 


people." This quotation is the arch typal language of the poobah. You are correct if you discern a certain similarity between this type of language and the rhetoric of our national political figures, who are similarly secretive about their bureaucratic errors. Admittedly, our poobahs aren't able to start wars and drop bombs, but they have managed over the years to alienate Notre Dame students from any participation in the governing of their own lives at Notre Dame. 
The student political establishment at Notre Dame is thus a microcosm of the sickened state of politics on the national level, and it was against this establish­ment that Kersten directed much of his cogent satire. And as one of those students who have seen and heard too many poobahs, I can say that it was with no small amount of pleasure that we par­ticipated in the emancipation of ourselves from the delusory claims of the par­ticipants in the wheels of student bureaucracy . Now that the campaign has ended, however, it has become clear that the election of Bob Kersten was more than a satire against the poobahs. It was also a satire against the Notre Dame student body --but not a satire of the type described by T. C. Treanor in his own self­righteous way. The satire wasn't con­tained in our enthusiastic response to the Prime Mover. Rather, it was found in the realization that we had allowed ourselves in the past to be duped and carried along by the shallow promises and distorted mentality of political leaders. The ludicrous figure with a robe and crown, claiming to be the Prime Mover, brought out with shocking clarity the stupidity of our faith in the saving formulas and simplistic solutions of student politicians. 

So, Bob Kersten's campaign was a satire against the participation in the "poobah mentality" by both the poobahs and the student body in generaL The key question, however, is where the students go from here. It is rather clear that there is still a need for some student government mechanism, to handle various chores of an administrative nature, but it is also clear that the unwieldy bureaucracy at La l<'ortune should be reformed. Even more essential, however, is the need for the students at Notre Dame to rid themselves of poobah delusions and to realize that complex problems must be confronted with an appropriate depth of thought. There is a particular need for mature judgement on the part of the students since Notre Dame's Administration had long indulged in its own brand of the poobah mentality. Through a curious blend of paternalism and grandiose statement about the destiny of the Christian University, the Administration had managed to dress academic and social stagnancy under the cloak of "greatness". 
And the sad fact is that the penetration 
beneath the delusions of the Notre Dame 
Administration will require more than 
political slogans, of the sort which our 
brothers at La Fortune are so adept at 
coining. The solution Notre Dame's 
academic and social ills, for example, will 
not be approached simply by extending the 
pass-fail option and establishing co-ed 
dorms. In fact, the extension of the pass­
fail option too far beyond the present limits 
would force law schools and graduate 
schools to judge Notre Dame students 
almost entirely on the basis of their per­
formances on the standardized tests. 
The more effective way of combatting the academic ills would be to ask the Notre Dame Administration why the vast majority of Notre Dame students, ex­cluding those who study under the CAP, must fulfill course requirements, which may be inappropriate to their particular educational goals. The rigid separation between dep~rtments and the vast gap between the different colleges offer the students much food for reflection and criticism. And it is rather clear that many of the faculty would be more than willing to join the students in a questioning of why the Notre Dame administrative organs and its Board of Trustees are content to lag behind other schools in the im­plementation of reforms which would make Notre Dame a better community in which to live and learn. The important point to emphasize in concluding, however, is that the students can't depend upon the poobahs to ask the important 
Questions and that only a mature and in­felligent consideration of crucial issues <such as parietals) will allow the students to wage a successful war against the contracted minds of the Trustees, who wish to rule Notre Dame with a carte 
blanche. 
The ND-SMC Children's Theatre presents the fairy tale classic, Rum­pelstilskin, in the Little Theatre, Moreau Hall on Saint Mary's campus March 11 at 10 am and 2 pm, and March 12 and 18 at 2 pm. Tickets are $1 for adults and SO cents for students 16 years and under, and will be sold at the door. 
Two of the leading characters are Michael Gennaro in the title role and Leanne Montgomery as the Queen. 

------------------~-----------------------~--­
8 
the observer Friday, March 10, 1972 

Telaviv Ending an eight-day lull, Israeli jets bombed targets across the Lebanese border. Israel described the action, which included an on campus todayartillery bombardment, as a response to guerrilla rocket attacks from Lebanese territory Wednesday. Lebanon said two civilians were in­jured in the bombings and asserted that Israel had established military posts inside Lebanon.


-world 
Paris--The treasurers of multinational corporations, the exchange friday saturdaydealers of banks and private investors, appeared to be selling dollars as fast as they could in the European currency exchange markets. 2:00 --collegiate jazz 1:30 --collegiate jazz

briefs 

Nearly every major currency was either at its upper limit against the festival, lecture, jazz festival, stepan center. 
history, dan morgen­dollar or near that point, and some specialists called it a crisis that s t e r n , library 2:00 --rugby, irish, vs. johncould endanger the Dec. 18 currency realignment. 
auditorium. carroll, behind stepan.
)c) J!li2 New York Times 3:30 --SLC planningWashington--Dita D. Beard, a Washington lobbyist for the in­committee, 361 o'shag. 7:30 --collegiate jazzternational telephone and telegraph corporation, said she was told festival, final session,
that President Nixon had ordered "a reasonable settlement" of three 4:00 --meeting, any ln­
stepan center.

ferested in seniorantitrust suits against I.T.T., an investigator for columnist Jack lifesaving, rockne pool.
Anderson told a Senate Committee. John N. Mitchell, then Attorney 7:30 --collegiate jazzGeneral, was said to have given Mrs. Beard the information. 

festival, opening session, San Diego--Authoritative Republican sources in San Diego said that big bands, guest bands, party leaders in Washington are exerting strong pressure to cancel the stepan center. sunday 
$400,000 I.T.T. financing guarantee for the Republican National 9:00--concert, andy cohen, 4:00 --finals, billiards Convention. The sources said there now is a frantic search under way edge city, smc, $1. tournament, Iafortune. for new convention financing. 
Fr. J. Kelly na~ned Moreau superior 
by Jim McDermott their final years of theology study 
before ordination, and several 

Rev. James E. Kelly, C.S.C., men who are taking un­has been named to a three-year dergraduate courses at Notre term as superior at Moreau Dame. Seminary. Kelly believes that his main 
Fr. Kelly, who starts his term task will be to present the goals of 
June 15, is presently an associate the Holy Cross order to the professor of sociology at the seminarians without infringing University of Portland. He on their freedom. Seminarians, succeeds Rev. Louis Putz, C.S.C., he feels, must have the op­who has been superior at Moreau portunity to exercise their own for six years. talents as they see best. 
A native of Akron, Ohio, Kelly received his bachelor's and master's degrees from Notre GSU posts open Dame. He was awarded his doctorate by the University of The Graduate Student Union North Carolina at Chapel Hill in announced yesterday that 1967. nominations are now open for the 
Kelly was ordained in 1958, and positions of GSU President, Vice­has taught at Portland since 1965. President, and Secretary­
He has also taught at Treasurer. The deadline for Sacramento State College, and at nominations is March 17. Any Chaminade College in Honolulu. questions should be forwarded to 
As superior at Moreau, Kelly 402 Administration Building or will supervise seminarians in phone 8752. 
Tonight 
People & Song Presents Otuck Beck Tex Petray Bill Schneider Rick Walters Coffee House Everyone Welcome 25c Admission 9-2 am Alumni Hall Lounge 
KIPKG. 
• 
Yamaha ISkis • Poles 

• 
Tyrolia 55AOO Bindings 

• 
Plastic £uckle Boots 


$99
_• Two Giont 
• Installation
.:;,;;;\Stores 
Regular Sin......... . 
• Just Minutes BADGER SKI PKG. 
• riScher 707 Glass Skis • Poles
Away 
• 
Marker-Eiastomat Binding 

• 
Plasli( Buckle Boots 

• 
Installation 


$16 
Regular SZS2.......•.. 
HOOSIER SKI PKG. 
• Volkl Sapporo Skis 
• Look/llewada Bildings 
• Garmont Comp. Boots 
• Poles 
• Installation 


$2 4 9 
R..,ar SlSJ •.•.•••. 
"World's Lorgesf Selection" 

When it comes to engagements, we wrote the bookI 
I I 

It's 40 pages filled with diamond engagement and wedding rings. In beautiful full color you can look at hundreds of different styles. Everything from antique to modern. 
Vanity Fair has been in the dia­mond business since 1921. We import our own diamonds, design and manufacture the settings, and mount the gems. And since 1921 we've sold directly to deal­ers. Now in a new and unique mar~eting policy, we're selling di­rectly to college students. 
What it all means is that we've eliminated the middleman profits that can drive up the price of a diamond ring. 
In fact we've done it so well, we can probably sell you a diamond ring for 50% less than anyone else. If we don't we'll give you your money back. We give you that guarantee in writing. 
You can read all about our guarantee and a lot of other inter­esting facts about diamonds in our book. It's free ... 
send for itl 



r------.
llfmitvlflirJ)iamonds I 
__I 

1 55 E. Washington St., Chicago, Illinois 60602  I  
I Name__  I  
I  Address  I  

: City State Zip Code School -1
&-!-----..-......-.. 
Friday, March 10, 1972 
Symposium opens festival 
Jazz panel exchanges views 
by Sue Prendergast 

The relationship between jazz and rock music dominated the jazz symposium held last night at the Center for Continuing Education. 
The symposium opened the 14th annual Collegiate Jazz Festival being held this week-end at Notre Dame. 
The panel featured CJF master of ceremonies Willis Conover of Voice of America and CJF judges Aynsley Dunbar, drummer with the Mothers of Invention; George Russel, arranger and composer, Hubert Laws, flute player with Downbeat; Jamey Aebersold, jazz conductor, and Dan Morgenstern, Downbeat editor. 
Roberta Flack, Downbeat vocalist, who will also judge festival bands, was unable to attend the symposium. She will, however, arrive later tonight and preside at the other weekend events. 
In a question and answer exchange with the audience, panel members offered their insight into jazz and the music world in general. 
Relating jazz and rock, Russell contended that 
"rock came along when jazz was regenerating, question on lhe difficulties of playing free-form CJ F panel decides that jazz trying to work new ideas out. It was a new and traditional jazz. and rock music are movement that brought things home to more Free form is a misrepresentation, Russell really the same as panel people." contended. Freedom really means getting members (inset) listen to When rock needs to refresh itself, it must go deeper into the laws of music.lf the artist fails to unidentified jazz 
selections and try to
back to its source--jazz, Russell continued. "Jazz achieve a deeper level, he becomes mechanical. 
name them. 
uses rock ideas and rock borrows from jazz so Panel members also commented on four jazz 
they are really one," he said. numbers played during the symposium. The 

the observer 

ROMA PARTY TONIGHT! 
Friday, March 10 

SCHLITZ 
(all you can handle) 
ROCK MUSIC by 


OX PEDDLE 
Pretzels, pizza, and pool tables also available. All ND-SMC Students are invited. 
Admission: $2.00 (NO), $1.50 
<SMCJ Special for Couples: $3.50! 2nd Floor at the ROMA 219 N. Michigan Ave, next to Morris Civic Auditorium 8:30-1:00 

Morgenstern agreed, saying that audience received information on these songs, 

JIM HIBSCHMAN 
distinguishing between jazz and rock often but the panel did not. 
becomes a "semantics problem." The purpose of this "blind-fold test" was to 
PONTIAC Dunbar distinguished between underground provoke specific responses rather than the rock groups which are "trying to incorporate general discussions of past jazz symposiums, 301 Lincolnway E. Mishawaka 
255-4771
other music" and popular rock groups such as explained master of ceremonies Richard Bizot, Three Dog Night which play "simple songs they assistant professor of English. 
don't have to think about." 
Many people today don't want to really listen to music, so jazz has lost popularity, Dunbar contended. 
Russell then described the development of both jazz and rock as a continuing process of "searching for new forms until the music passes beyond the understanding of most listeners ... It then "feeds" new types of music which "filter down to broader bases in forms people can ac­cept." 
Jazz is a splendid Mro-American music which represents many sources and ethnic backgrounds, Russell declared. "It affects people all over the world; why is it totally misunderstood and unsupported in its native land?" 
"Improvising is a greater challenge to !lle than playing traditional music," Laws replied to a 
'Meet your major'nights for AL sophs scheduled 
majoring i.n undergraduate

A "Meet Your Major" education may fulfill stateprogram for sophomores in the requirements by taking coursesCollege of Arts and Letters is Mary's according tobeing sponsored next week by the at St. , 
Kuntz. The St. Mary's Depart­Student Advisory Council. 

ment of Education will have a

Starting Sunday night, 
presentation

sophomores will have a chance to on undergraduate 
education during the "Meet Your hear ·presentations; by each Major" program.

department in the College. 
Kuntz also reminded students 

The purpose of the program, interested in Communication 
according to Chairman Tim Arts that the program has been Kuntz, is to aid sophomores in merged with the American choosing an area of study within Studies Program.
the College. They will be given a 
One additional feature this chance to talk with faculty year will be the student majors to members and students majors at talk with interested individuals 
each presentation. In addition, a bout their major. Some 
printed material describing the departments have already program will be available. released a list of the available 
The program is timed so that majors in the department.
sophomores can talk with their The program leaders stressed 
parents over spring break before that the Arts and Letters Student 
making their decision. The choice Advisory Council is happy to talk of major must be turned in during with any student about liberal Advance Registration. 
education and the programs of Sophomores interested in the 
SJGN UP NOW 



COPIES UNLIMITED 
<)uality and fast service is the main facet of copies unlimited. 
The Xerox 3600 III copier used in copies unlimited is the fastest and best 
rC'producing machine made. 
WP ~pecialize in any short run order you may have. 8V2 x 11 and 8V2 x 14 
p:1 per is used in copies unlimited. This paper is especially made for the :l600 III. While going through the machine the toner is fused into the p:lp<'r to prevent smearing, fading and cracking. Half tones and solids :• I'C' rC'm:1rkable in quality. Call 233-9471 or come up to suite 402 Whit­l'omb-Kl'ller Bldg. and ask about the other services we offer. 
Office hours: !\Ton Thru Fri 9-5, Sat 10-4 Emergencies after hours (' :111 2:J2-9834. 
MaROONE 

Color; Rated G, Rated A-2; 134 minutes Gregory Peck, Richard Crenna, David Janssen directed by John Sturges 
MAROONED, a Frankovich production, is the story of three astronauts stranded in space with only 55 minutes in which to be rescued. Magnificent performances by Gregory Peck as the chief of the U.S. Manned Space Flight Program, David Jansen, the senior U.S. astronaut, and Richard Crenna, the third member of the team. "MAROONED is a space adventure that is indeed spec­tacular!"-L.A. HERALD EXAMINER. "Dazzling, just plain thrilling! A vivid experience!"-Charles Champlin, LOS ANGELES TIMES. "Truly marvelous suspense! Con­sistently exciting! A space saga that springs from reality!"­LONG ISLAND PRESS. 
KNIGH.TS OF COLUMBU111Marooned'is FRIDAY & SATURDAY one 7-9:30 -MIDNIGHT 
helluva movie!" 

Students $1.00 Members F
-John Huddy, Miami Herald 

for the first 1st Annual 




MARBLES TOURNAMENT 
Sat. March 18 Entry Fee: $1 to the Student Union Office -4th Floor LaFortune Min. of $100 of Prizes 
standard insurance at reasonaote payable to the agent who sold the the note transaction is made; and 
cost because of age and non-note to our wholly owned sub­sending out to the insured, after 
hazardous duties, but when they sidiary, the Mayflower the policy has been delivered to
A Letter • • • might not be able to make Investment Company or to the and accepted by him, a specialregular payments conveniently. agent's own local bank, The letter inquiring by means of a 
• • • on life insurance 
The following letter was sub­mitted by John Consul, assistant baseball coach and a salesman for the Fidelity Union Insurance Co.. in reply to the recently printed Consumer's Union article on life insurance. ed. 
Editor: 
Last week, while I was in one of our agencies in New England, I saw an article appearing in the January 1972 issue of a magazine 
known as "Consumers Union." This particular article briefly described the sale of life in­surance to college seniors and graduates. The opinion of the writer of the article was that college seniors should not buy life insurance unless they have children. 
The article condemned the purchase of life insurance by college seniors in general, and mentioned our company in one brief paragraph. -· 
In order to re-emphasize why we strongly disagree with the position that a college senior doesn't need, or shouldn't pur­chase life insurance, I would like to summarize some facts that I know you are familiar with. 
Since 1955 we have served college seniors and graduate students by offering policies on a deferred premium arrangement under the registered service mark, "CollegeMaster." We presently have approximately Two Billion Dollars of life in­surance in force •on these plans which are sold in all of the states in which we are licensed to do business. These policies are sold by a carefully selected and trained group of agents. Most of our agents are college graduates; we have not followed the practice of using college students as agents in this particular market. 
The deferred premium arrangement fills a very definite· need for college seniors and graduate students of legal age, many of whom have family and other responsibilities and many of whom upon graduation will be in the armed forces and possibly serving in Viet Nam or some other war area where the prospect of premature death is very real. The deferred premium arrangement, when used, per­mits these students to commence a permanent insurance estate at a time when they are in a favorable position to secure Our C'ollegeMaster policies generally have received com­mendation from educators, parents and others who speak highly of a plan which provides permanent life insurance protection for these young adults. We have paid to widows and parents almost Two Million Five Hundred Thousand Dollars in Viet Nam death claims on this plan alone over the past few years. Of course, we have oaid many more thousands of dollars in benefits on account of natural and accidental death. 


Our leading policy in this market is a low-premium, non­participating form of life in­surance to which the applicant can add a number of optional benefits if he desires including the very valuable Guaranteed policy contains a special five­year pure endowment benefit payable at the end of the fifth policy year designed to take care of the major part or all of the note given for the first year's premiums. Thus, if the policy is continued to the end of the fifth year. the majority of the note (and in many instances all of the note> will be taken care of through this benefit payment from the policy. 
Our company takes every possible precaution to make certain that the applicant who avails himself of this plan knows exactly what he is doing. We follow very rigidly the regulations promulgated for this type of plan by the various State Insurance Departments. The Nation~! ~ssoiation of Insurance 
Insurability Option which per-• C'ommtsstoner.s have a.dopted a 
mits him to secure additional policies at stated ages or events without evidence of insurability. The applicant executes a five-year promissory note for most of the first year's premium, the balance being remitted in the form of a cash payment. These notes currently are made payable directly to the Fidelity Union Life Insurance Company. Formerly such notes were made 
' model regulatiOn for thts type of life insurance sale to prevent abuses in the. market, which model regulation we strongly endorse. A few of the safeguards includ~. the follo:-v~ng: 

Reciting the giVIng of the note in the application for the policy, a copy of which is attached to the contract; attaching a copy of the ~ote to t~e polic.y when it is Issued; usmg a pohcy acceptance letter in which a full disclosure of 
reply card as to his full un­derstanding of and satisfaction with the policy and the note transaction. Included in the welcome letter a seond copy of the policy acceptance form is provided to make sure the in­sured was aware of what he had signed at the time of policy delivery. If an insured should indicate at the time of policy delivery or at the time he receives our letter that he has any question or is not fully satisfied, we will be glad to consider a request for can­cellation of the policy if the in­sured's question or problem is not resolved. 
To further protect the interests of our clients, we do not offer the note privilege to students under age 21 without the co-signature of a parent or legal guardian. 
Sincerely, Wm. B. Stephenson, C.L.U. Executive· Vice-President I<'idelity Union Life Insurance 
Letters to the editor should be typewritten and sent to The 
Observer,  Box Q,  Notre  Dame,  
Ind.  46556  or  delivered  to  the  
office.  Letters  must  be  signed  

(unless they deal with a sensitive ethical question). Names will be withheld by request. 


Bengal Bouts begin Monday 
The 41st staging of the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts boxing tournament begins Monday, March 13 in the Notre Dame Athletic and Convocation Center. 
The first-round action begins with elimination bouts in 10 weight classes at 8 o'clock on the opening night. It continues Wednesday, March 15 and con­cludes with the championship matches on Friday, March 17. 
A total of fifty-eight student boxers, including six returning champions, will take part in the three-day affair which benefits the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. 
This year's tournament will mark the 39th year that Dominick 
J. "Nappy" Napolitano has directed ths amateur boxing event at Notre Dame. With the exception of three years during World War II, Nappy has staged the intramural bouts which have donated almost $175,000 for missionary work in the Far East. 
South Bend's Roland Chamblee is perhaps the most experienced 
Thine/ads, wrestlers headed for NCAA 's 
Five Notre Dame athletes will dual meet season with a brilliant compete in NCAA Indoor Track 24-Q-1 record that includes 20 and wrestling Championships pins. The other Irish wrestler this weekend. entered is 177 pound Rick Komar 
(13-9), who finished third in the Track coach Alex Wilson will regionals two weeks ago. 

enter three athletes in the NCAA regionals two weeks ago.
finals at Detroit's Cobo Hall Another freshman, shot put ace
Friday and Saturday while 
Greg Cortina, will head thewristling coach Terry Mather has trackmen in Detrot. Cortina hastwo matmen ready for the NCAA a best effort of 60-10 this winter. 

meet at the University of 
High hurdler Tom McMannon,Maryland. 

with a 7.2 effort in the 60 yard 

Much attention will be focused high's and freshman sprinter on Irish heavyweight wrestler Eric Penick are also entered. Mike Fanning. The Tulsa, Penick will enter the 60 yard dash Oklahoma freshman finished the field with a low mark of 6.2'. 
boxer n~turning. Two years ago he was crowned champion in the 160-pound division and last year won a unanimous decision over Terry Kasperak for the junior middleweight crown. He will be paired against newcomer Tom Strachota in the opening night action. 
Another experienced fighter is Larry Semerad who advanced to the championship round last week in the Chicago Golden Gloves tournament. Last year he lost a decision to eventual champ Jack Griffin in the semifinals of the 125-pound class at Notre Dame. 
Other returning titlists include Pat McGrath, 135-pounds; Gary Canori, 145-pounds, Mike Suddes, 150 pounds, Kevin Kerrigan, !55­pounds; and Ed Carney, 160­pounds. 
Also entered in this year's tournament are three football players, Cecil Boot, quarterback Pat Steenberge, and linebacker Mike Webb. Boot and Steen­berge will compete in the light heavyweight division while Webb will slug it out with the heavyweights. 
Tickets are priced at $1.00 for general admission for the first two nights and$1.50 for the finals. Bingside seats are $2.00 each night and all tickts may be purchased in advance at Gate 10 ticket window. 
Fencers visit 
Great Lakes 

for tourney 
Notre Dame's fencing team, boasting a lofty 18-2 record, will renew its yearly battle with two Detroit schools-Wayne State and the University of Detroit -for midwest and national supremacy during the next three weeks. 
The Irish will compete in the annual Great Lakes Fencing championships at Cleveland Friday and Saturday, battling undefeated Wayne State and defending champion Detroit for the title. Detroit handed the Irish its first loss of the season a month ago, 14-13. 
Notre Dame, the Great Lakes champion two of the past four years, concludes its dual meet season at home the following Saturday, March 18, against Wayne State in the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
The NCAA Championships are scheduled March 23-25 in Chicago at the University of Illinois­Chicago Circle. 
Irish coach Mike DeCiccio indicated that he will enter two fencers in sabre, foil and epee. Ron Sollitto (40-5) and Matt Fruzynski (39-6) are in sabre, Mike Cornwall (35-9) and Jim Mullenix (29-14) in foil and Tim Taylor (32-8) and Chuck Harkness (32-7) in epee. 


Notre Dame's Intramural hockey champions are left to right, front row. Joe Meyer, Rob Reff, Steve Bell, Terry Parent, Lou Angrue, Eric Horne: back row, John Murphy, Bob Dressel, Sam Costello, Pat Roche. Larry McMahon, Marty Klabacha(captain), Joe Raymond, Jim Hatler, and Jerry Hill. Mike Kuryla was absent when the picture was taken. Klabacha's team finished first during the regular season, compiling a 6-0-1 slate. The only blemish on their record came when a club captained by Paul Simmons battled them to a 5-5 tie, but Klabacha's squad avenged that deadlock by defeating Simmons' team in the championship playoff series, 7-3 and 3-1, in overtime. Simmons' club was 5-1-1 during the regular season. 

Friday, March 10, 197'1 
Mike Suddes (Left -150 lbs.) and Gary Canorl (1451b8.) wDI be out to I'l'tain their titles when the 41st Annual Bengal Bouts begin Monday at the ACC. The first two rounds of the Bengals are slated for Monday and Wed­nl'sday nights and the finals are scheduled for St. Patrick's Day, the night of March 17. 






OBSERVER, 
SPORTS 
JV icers finish 11-2-2 
Jerry McPartlin is MVP 
by John Fineran 
The Notre Dame Junior Var­sity hockey team concluded its 1971-72 season with an out­standing 11-2-2 record. Coach Charles Burroughs' team played many fine clubs and had a number of top notch per­formances from key personnel. 
Jerry McPartlin led the Irish 
J.V. 's in scoring, finishing the season with 25 points on 15 goals and 10 assists. The senior from Chicago was named Most Valuable Player by his team­mates for his performance. 
Cliff Maison, 21 points, Lee Gurley, 20, Mike McPartlin, 19, and Tom Lindsey, 13, were the other big gunners in the potent Irish attack. 
Freshman Mike Thorpe, playing 711 minutes in goal, had an exceptional 3.9 goals against average while making 320 saves. He received capable back-up help from Mark Thacher. 
The Irish defensive corps was led by Gary Gallagher. Gallagher topped the team also in penalty time, racking up twenty­four penalties worth fifty-nine minutes. Leo Cushing, Greg Collins, Drew Black, and Jack Hafter all proved to be capable 
NCAA PAIRINGS 
SATURDAY 
EAST REGIONAL 
soutn Carolln~ vs. Temple at William­
-::ourg, Va. 
Villanova v5. East Carolina at Prlnreto". 
N.J. 
Providence vs. Penn 31 New YoJ1( City.
MIDEAST REGIONAL Muquolle vs. Ohio University and Flori­
..1.-! State vs. Ohio Vallev Conference cham­pion •t Knoxv11le, Tenn. MIDWEST REGIONAL 
Southvtcstern Lou;siana vs. Marshall and 
tlouston vs. Southwest Conference champlor. 
-'~Las Cruces, N.M. WEST REGIONAL 
Weber .state vs. Hawaii and Long Be3ch 
st~tc vs. Briyham Young at Pocatello, ld­
.,ho. 
stoppers at the Notre Dame 
blueline. 
The highlights of the season included a four-game sweep of the tough Chicago Minor Hawks, an exciting overtime win over Hillsdale College, 7-6, and a victory over the previously un­defeated Park Ridge All-Stars in the seasons finale, 7-4. 
Four players for the Junior Irish saw action with the varsity: " Maison, Lindsey, Mike Tardani, and Bob Howe. 

Ruggers open 
The Notre Dame rugby team will open its 1972 Spring season this Saturday afternoon against John Carroll behind Stepan Center. 
The Ruggers have been holding practices for a month and feel optimistic heading into Satur­day's opener. The team was dissapointed in its fall season, but returning experience and some promising Freshmen could be just cause for the bright outlook. Returning to the serum position will be Tom Masenga, Joe Hafener and . Doug Smego. Among the returning veterans in the backfield are Rich Cam­pagna, Herb Giorgio and Bill Markel. 
Following up Saturday's game on the schedule is a contest against Michigan on March 17. Both of these games start at 2:00 p.m. 
The Notre Dame team is also .. hosting an invitational tour­nament this season on the weekend of May 6-7. Par­ticipating in this four team tournament will be clubs from Colorado State, Kent State, ., 
L.S.U. and host Notre Dame. 

Friday, March 10, 1972
the observer 

Hughes, biographers booked in Ne'W York 
New York, March 9 --Clifford Irving's purported "autobiography" of Howard R. Hughes was officially discredited today as the expatriate author, his wife, Edith, and his researcher, Richard Suskind, were indicted here on criminal charges. 
In the climax of a six-week investigation, a New York county grand jury charged the three with grand larceny, conspiracy and possession of forged instruments. Then, in a second indictment, it charged the 41-year-old Irving and Suskind, 38, with perjury. 
In yet another indictment, handed up by a federal grand jury, Irving and his 36-year-old artist wife were charged with conspiracy and mail fraud. The federal indictment named 
.. Suskind as a co-conspirator but not as a defendant. 
What emerged from the indictments made public at a crowded news conference at the Federal Court House here were allegations of a bold scheme to sell McGraw-Hill, Inc., what was described as a "bogus autobiography" of the wealthy, reclusive Hughes for more than $750,000. 
According to court papers, the success of the purported design rested on the belief by Irving and Suskind that the 66­year-old industrialist was either dead "or not of sufficient mental or physical capacity to denounce it." 
In addition, the papers said Irving and Suskind agreed that "regardless of Hughes's condition, they would fashion a biography of Hughes that would portray him in such a sympathetic light as to preclude him from rejecting it as his life's story." 
Among the details--some ironic, others brazen or bizarre­that emerged from the allegations in the indictments were these: 
--The germ of the plot was planted during Christmas week, 1970, when Irving read a Newsweek article about Hughes that was accompanied by a photograph of the last Ulines of a Hughes letter. Dissatisfied with his forgeries after seeing in Life an enlarged version of the Newsweek letter he had used as his model, Irving reforged the letters and was replacing them as late as last January. 
--To give their manuscript "the aura of spontaneity and ring of truth," Irving and Suskind took turns at playing the role of Hughes in interviews the two conducted to furnish them with tape recordings for their work. 
--With the cooperation of Life, which had a $250,000 con­tract to publish excerpts from the "Autobiography," Irving was given access to the confidential file on Howard Hughes of Life's parent concern, Time, Inc., and took more then 350 photographs of t!le contents of the file. 
-The search for material for the "Autobiography" in­cluded a stint at the Business Week and Aviation Week reference library at McGraw-Hill, the purported victim of the plot. 
NOW. LOOK. HERE. 
-----~-~~----­
Spring, summer, sun, warm weather, green, etc....lt's on Its way! We're ready with the latest apparel••.•beach wear, Levi double-knit slacks, a great selection of shirts and more, much, much more. Stop in and look us over; get ready for the sun. 

and with the Campus Shop Way to Buy you 




PAY NEXT SUMMER 
True! You wear and enjoy your apparel now and pay next June, July and 
August with NO service charge or interest of any kind. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Grey frame glasses. Call Jim 1535. 
Found: $near Notre Dame circle. Identify date and amount of loss. 8139 after ll. 
Lost:  Gold watch with twistoflex  
band.  Reward offered.  Call Tom  
6727.  

Found: a small silver ring in tunnel at SMC. Call 4285. 
Lost (Stolen) -wallet, $7, personal 
ID's. Valuable to me only. No Questions. Call RICH 8147. 
Lost: Shaggy black and gray dog with Indianapolis Rabies Tag on choker chain. Please call 234­1752, 272-4761 or 283-1956-John C. Meyer 
Found one W.ittnauer "award" ­wrist watch see monitor, Memorial Library. 
Lost (Stolen): Blue coat in Washington Hall Monday night (11:30). Reward. CaiiTOM8409. 
PERSONALS 
Let's swing together this weekend at the Collegiate Jazz Festival. Are you man enough? See you there. 
Love, 
Roberta 
Pert SMiCk chick looking for cuddly jazz freak. Will you be there when I need you? If you are, I 'II see you at the Jazz Festival this weekend. Don't want to swing alone. I've been hearing dif­

a ferent drum too long. March 22 Suzy April 4 Tickets on Boys, Campus tbut we have enough All Sales what good training CLEVELAND EASTER Hazel and Ruby SIGN UPBilr) 6 6:30 pm Want to find out what Shangri-Ia is 6-6:30 pm like? Come see "LOST 2-3:00 pm  NO to O'Hare 1:30pm. Need ride for two girls to FloridaO'Hare to ND 8 pm. ill Spring Break. Call 5716.sale at the lst Bank PLEASE!ravel office $5 one-way. Final. Girls desperately need ride to Ft. Lauderdale area. Call DebbieCLUB 4418 or Patsy 5786.BUS S--LaFortune (Coke Spring break Need ride to Baltimore, MD Call Rick 6810.Thursday Friday TWO GUYS NEED RIDE TOSaturday  
at Badin Vintage Cinema this weekend. NO PLANCassanova Spend the Break in Dear Miss Canton, Mass. Carolina, me bananas, for high school students. in my life, no joke informatioLove ya, Connecticut (Paul). FOR RENT ROMA ROCK MUDual­8mm projector for rent. Call LOTS OF N D SMC Admission (SMC). 219 nest to MTRY IT· KING&COWar film. Say, Why d(pop) over Arkie builLOST WEEKEND TAGE CIGENERAL Italian AGrasp. AMERIBASEMENT) CLINTON HURLEY, SHRECK 8:30, 50 ceNew 7th classical English, teachers. year. L SOUTH SIDE CHICAGO FRI AFTERNOON. CALL LARRYS for Easter vacation? 8276 OR RICK 8257.first week of Spring Hampton County, South Need ride to NYC, PHIL. ortutoring elementory and WASH D.C. Mar. 18. 8426.For further n, call 4501 or 234-5889 Need ride to Hartford. Springfield12:00. 1:00am. vicinity for Easter Call 1425. PARTY TONIGHT Need ride to PH ILADELPH lASIC BY OX PEDDLE­AREA any weekend. Call TOMSHILTZ ON TAP and 8422.students are invited. $2.00 (ND); $1.50 FOR SALENo. Michigan Ave orris Civic Engagement Rings, WatchesYOU'LL LIKE IT. Tremendous Savings, Complete line. Call Tom 3575.UNTRY: BritishAnti­Last Grasp. Michel in X Tires 165-380-15 with tubes. For all VW Bugs; most 15"on't you bring your can sports and imports. Less than to the basement of the 2,000 miles. $80 for 3 tires or bestd? offer. 255-6726. ------------­HORIZON THIS 1967 Dodge Dart, 2 door, 6­AT BADIN VIN­cylinder, automatic, radio, snowNEMA tires, new battery, turquoise, excellent condition. Call John 283­DELLA ROVERE: 6720.nti-War film. Last 12" TV only 5 mo. old. $95; 1020. CA (FLANNER For Sale: '65 Comet. $225. 287­FRI. NIGHT PAT 4940.WITH JOHN SAT NIGHT CHARLIE For Sale Reliable P.A. system;PLUS FREE TIME full range and good volume;nts FREE COFFEE microphones separate in­formation, John 7802.through 9th grade Christian school needs STEREO SPEAKER SYSTEMSLatin, Math, Science Brand new-Full warranty. CallSmall salaries first 283-8462.ooking for graduate  

Dear O.C. 
Thanks, business-Amazing, brings. 
Dearest, 
really HORIZON" 
You're driving once 
Don 3729. 

(:LASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES 
Recycle your books with Pandora. South Bend-Notre Dame Avenuse. 
Charity Bake Sale. Huddle, Sat., March 11. 9:00-4:00. 
Parts and Accessories for Im­ported Cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 272-7187. 
DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and With in Europe. Leave anytime from NY -Chicago. Flight Center 227 North Randall, Madison, WI 53705. (608) 263-3131. 
CHIMES accepting poetry, fic­tion, essays, graphics. Submit to 
D. Kerr 533 McCandless, R. Campell 813 Grace, T. Knoles-P. Smith 334 Dillon. 
Typin~J Anytime--Reasonable Prices. CHIP (8256) or MIKE (6963). 
NASSAU TRIP MARCH 24-31. 8 days and 7 nights with quad ac­com. Air fare and Hotel may be purchased separately. Limited number of seats available. 
Tickets on Sale at Student Union Ticket office. $202 inclusive. Questions, Call: 7757. 
If you're interested in flying to Denver for spring break, call Pete ill 6743 or 6730, or Dan at 6987. 
Student Union Buses to O'Hare. 
students (preferably with Masters) to work part-time while at Notre Dame. Closing date for applications March 19th. Send vita, references, etc. to Magdalen School, P.O. Box 1225, South Bend 46624. 
FIRES ON THE PLAIN: Japanese Anti-War Film. Last Grasp. 
AMERICA (FLANNER BASEMENT) FRI. NIGHT PAT CLINTON WITH JOHN HURLEY, SAT. NIGHT CHARLIE SHRECK PLUS FREE TIME 8:30, 50 cents FREE COFFEE 
People: Don't let your money go up in llleless smole. Real opium doesn't 
sell for $5 a gram. 
Courtesy of: 
The Student Drug Information 
Center 
To the person who took a pwir of pointed boots of tan suede from the costume room in Moreau Hall, SMC .. please return as these are needed for production of Rum­pelstiltskin for this weekend. No questions asked. 
Dr. Rober Kenvin 
N D-SMC Theater 
WANTED 
Wanted: 3 roommates for 4­bedroom house off-campus. $62.50 mo. Call Denny -234-4435. 
WANTED one very light por­table typewriter for travel in Europe Call BRUCE 288-7558 after 6. 
RIDES WANTED 
Need ride to Florida for Spring Break. Call Mary Ann 4552. 
Need ride to Rockford, Illinois for break. Call Irene . 4148. 
Two girls need ride to New York area or D.C. for break. Call 5776. 
Need ride to Florida. Can leave Tuesday (3-21). Call 1441. 
Need ride to University of Illinois March 10. Marty 4944. 
Need ride to Providence R I vicinity. Spring Break. MICHAEL 233-4435. 
Spring break Need ride to Florida. Call 8471, 8549, 8075. 
Afgan puppies AKC, male and female, several colors and masks. Call 288-6911. 
ROBERTS 770X tape recorder: Cross Field heads, sound on sound, sound with sound, 4 speeds. 
Call 3729. 
SAVE ON RECORDING TAPE! Cassette, reel, and S-track; Ampex, BASF, Memorex, Sony, or TDK. Call Don: 3729. 
Words lda 2da 3da 4de Sda 
1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-151.001.501.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 







