
don't get used to yesterday. cloudy, high in low 40's. chance of rain tonight. 


_I{Q!VI., No. 88 of notre dame -st. mary's Tuesday, February 29, 1972 
Merger finished!! 
Kersten, Seymour lead in final poll 
by John Abowd asked: 
Observer Assistant Editor --If you were voting for the Notre Dame (SMC)
Many fewer students are undecided in their .111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111~111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111
student body president today would you choose: choice for Student Body President, according to (names of the candidates in alphabetical order), the final Observer poll. At Notre Dame rione of the above, or another student? 
sophomore Bob Kersten has a slim lead. At St. 
--Do you intend to vote? 
results
Mary's Academic Mfairs Commissioner Jean Only 5 of the. 221 people contacted respondedSeymour holds a substantial lead. 
that they did not inten to vote. However in 1970 Undecided vote at ND is down to 17.4 percent only 70 per cent of the ND student body voted. In from 48 percent on Saturday. SMC undecided 1971 66 per cent voted. These figures cast some Notre Dame SBP 
oercent
vote dived from 72 per centin the last poll to 24.5 doubt on the validity of the "not voting" percent today. response. Bob Kersten 19.8 
"Prime Mover" Bob Kersten leads the ND Class Breakdowns Floyd Kezele 14.0 field with 19.8 percent. Behind Kersten are Kersten's greatest strength is the Junior class Paul Dziedzic 11.6 Floyd Kezele, Towers SLC represe!'tat~ve, with where he polled 22 percent of the votes. The Gary Caruso 7.6 St. Mary's SBP percenf 
14.0 and Ombudsman Paul Dziedzic With 11.0. other classes divided evenly. Bob !iiggins 7.6 
At St. Mary's Seymour leads her only opponent The largest undecided vote came in the senior Chuck Luken 7.6 Jean ~eymour 40.8 SMC Student Assemblywoman Eileen Fitz­class where 28 percent reported that they had not Joe Schlosser 5.8 Eileen Fitzpatrick 19.8 patrick 40.8 percent to 19.8 percent. yet decided for whom to vote. Seniors were split Mike Cunningham 2.3 
The poll was conducted for The Observer by evenly between Kersten ann Kezele. Dennis Thomas 0.0 other 4.1 Omnicron Delta. As with Saturday's survey the Sophomores had the smallest undecided vote. results were reported by Joe Cooney, president Voting sophs split evenly between Kersten and other 0.0 not voting 2.0 of the economics honors fraternity. Dziedzic. None of the Above 4.1 
Cooney drew a random sample of 192 ND 21 per cent of the Freshman class favored not voting 2 . .J undecided 24.5 students of whom 172 were contacted. 49 of a Kezele. This was the only class in which Kersten random sample of 69 were contacted at SMC. did not have the lead. Frosh also showed the undecided 17.4 sample size 49 
"We could use these sample sizes," Cooney second highest undecided rate with 21 percent said "Because we don't allow substitutes on our indicating they were uncommitted. sample size 172 original list of students. Statistically, this gives The latest addition to the ballot, "none of the 
accurate results even with the relatively small 1111111111111 II III 1111111 II Ill II I1111 IIIII II II IIIII 1111 IllII 1111111 II IIIII 1111 Ill I111111111111111111111111111111 II
above" garnered only 4.1 percent of the final sample." vote. No class showed a significant trend toward Students were surveyed Monday afternoon and this option. 
by Ann Therese Darin Associate Editor 
St. Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame have reportedly terminated all plans for­unification. 
Releasing this information yesterday af­ternoon unofficially, Rev. Neil G. Me Cluskey, SMC trustee and coeducation committee chairman, pointed out that the Sisters of the Holy Cross, owners of the college, "purposely renegging on the May 1971 agreement." 
"The officers of the Sisters' Congregation have usurped the authority of the Board of Trustees and administration. Their decision, ignoring the mandate of the students, the faculty, the parents. and the Board, is no merger. This is being done without the legal authority of the Board," Fr. Me Cluskey said. 
An official announcement on the progress of the renegotiations is expected Thursday, 
Sisters wanted control 
According to Me Cluskey, a prominent Jesuit educator-author, the Sisters retarded the negotiations by trying to impose their exclusive control of women's life on the Notre Dame campus. 
"The sisters wanted complete control of the feminine side of the new entity," Me Cluskey recounted. 
Reportedly the College's only reason for reentering the second round of negotiations was to procure a guarantee that its 30 juniors enrolled in majors not offered at SMC could receive Notre Dame degrees "for the cheapest 
·price." 

Although negotiators would not confirm this rumor, more than two weeks ago, the university provost's office circulated a list among ND department chairmen to verify SMC juniors presently enrolled in ND majors. Psychology and Government majors were not included. 
As yet, negotiators have made no official decision concerning the Notre Dame students enrolled in the St. Mary's undergraduate 
department of education, the only  source  for  
teaching  certificate  accreditation  on  either  
campus.  

ev. Neil •v•\;'-''u:>~>ev 
termination of the ND-SMC merger and 
resigned his position from SMC's Board of 
Trustees. 
While power is the Sisters' number one 
priority, Fr. McCluskey also named finances as another stumbling block, particularly the recent incorporation of St. Mary's College as ap in­dependent entity from the Sisters of the Holy Cross, Ind. In both corporations, the Sisters of the Holy Cross, reluctant to incorporate the college control of the stock. 
Fr. McCluskey singled out Sr. Gerald Hartney, 
Holy Cross Order treasurer, who "in her zeal for 
the financial niceties" has squelched the 
merger. 

Fr. McCluskey resigns 
"The new independent incorporation of the college contains explicitly what Notre Dame must pay for the: St. Mary's propperty.' Fr. McCluskey said. Reportedly, "The in­corporation papers bogged down with a lot of amorphous information are based solely on Sr. Gerald's estimates.'' 
The trustee, who served with Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, university president, and the late Msgr. John J. McGrath, SMC president, as a United States delegate to the Papla Commission on Education, also announced his resignation from the Board of Trustees. 
Defending his resignation, McCluskey said ''I 
feel my input is terminated. I see no future'for 
'St. Mary's without Notre Dame." He in­
timated several other trustees will leave soon 
too" ' 
Mr. William Cahill, vice-chairman of SMC's 
executive board of trustees, has "not really 
thought of resigning at the .present time.'' 
However, at the January meeting of the Board 
of Trustees, the Notre Dame graduate 
tpreatened to resign with Fr. McCluskey when 
it became apparent the Sisters did not want 
merger with Notre Dame. They withdrew only 
when the Sisters vowed their sincerity to unify. 

Trustees disappointed 
other trustees contacted by The Observer indicated they could not decide without more information. A majority of the Board contacted expressed disappointment over the lack of in­formation mailed to them on the merger. 
P. Jordan Hamel, trustee on the College. negotiating team, remarked, "I am not resigning. On Fr. McCluskey's knowledge of the breakdown: he seems to have knowledge I don't have." 
On a second session of negotiations, Hamel 
professed, "I don't know if there will even be 
another meeting." 

"I feel five years of work started by the late 
Fr. McGrath have gone down the drain because 
of the willful greed of women (the Sisters)" Fr. 
McCluskey charged. 
"Sr. Alma (acting president) and Mother 
Olivette have nothing to say any more," he 
reported. "Sr. Gerald is calling all the shots." 
With the news blackout and the lack of 
pressure from students and faculty, the sistes 
have protected their own interests, McCluskey 
alleged. 

"They excuse this year's freshmen class as being more radical than the rest of the college ­an oversight through hasty student selection by the admission office," Fr. McCluskey said. 
.(continued on,,...'' 




world briefs 


r----------------------------------------·--­
<c> 1972 New York Times 
Washington--President Nixon-returned to the United States Monday night, ending his visit to China and a week that he said changed the world. Nixon was awaited by a large crowd at An­drews Air Force Base, including congressional leaders cabinet office~s. the heads of about 100 diplomatic missions and ~umerous other government officials 
Taipei, Taiwan-In a strongly worded statement on the com­munique issued by President Nixon and Premier Chou En-Lai the Nat~onalist Chi~ese government said that the "rebel group:' in Pekmg had no nght to represent the Chinese people and that they regarded any agreements reached during _Nixon's visit that effected the Nationalist Government as "null and void." 
Washington-Hearings on the various Constitutional amendments against the use of busing to achieve racial integration were opened by th~ House Judiciary Committee. A rift between skeptical committee leaders, afted much of the major Civil Rights Bills of the 1960's, and younger members who demanded imediate action was immediately apparent. ' 
Merger talks end; coex class cutback 
(continued from paae J) 
"The Sisters believe the rest of the schools loves St. Mary's and does not want to see it change at all." 
He further forecasted a drastic cutback in coex classes because of the impossible financial burden. 
Questioned on the future of St. Mary's in competition with a coed Notre Dame, McCluskey replied, "Whom the,gods destroy, they first make mad." 
During the interview, Fr. McCluskey alluded to a letter written by Edmund A. Stephan chairman of the NO Board of Trustees, to Mother Olivette Whelan after the Feb. 1 and only meeting of the renegotiation teams. 
The letter alleged questions the sincerity of the college's motives in the present talks and cap­sulizes the events of the meeting which Mother Olivette did not attend. Reportedly she has not yet responded to Stephan's letter leaving the negotiations at an impasse, 
Despite the rumors of a second 

Cunningham visits halls 
students needs so much so that 
by Art Ferranti they have had little argument 
with students concerning their 
Student Body Presidential proposafs_ hopefuls Mike Cunningham and John Voll yesterday campaigned in Sorin, Zahm and Keenan Halls. 
They showed the biography movie of Knute Rockne at each of the halls they appeared at in an effort to show show how they can present enterntainment to the students at little and, in this case, no cost. 
On Saturday night, they presented an entertainment show free to the students in the basement of La Fortune Student Center. On the bill of the moderately attended program was a magician and ventroloquist act and the Rockne movie. Af­terwards, those who attended were invited to Voll's house for a swimming party. 
Cunningham said that the sho·;· was an example of what we can do and it did not cost us a dime."Voll added that they were trying to have ""more action and less talk." 
"'Also as part of their campaign, 
the candidates ran a shuttle 
service with their fleet of two 
hearses and an ambulance. 
Acoording to Voll they have-as of Sunday--transported over 300 students to wherever they wanted 
to go. 
Cunningham emphasized his platform as "basic" to the 
~~--~~--~-==dl 
What is and what wi the real Employability of an Engineer? 
ENGINEERING -A SINGLE PATH TO A MULTITUDE OF CAREERS 
Dr. Frank Leurssen 
V .P. of Research -ln~a~d Steel {Presented by ASM Student Chapter) 
Thur. Mor.ch 2 7:30pm Eng. Building 

Tuesday, February 29, 1972 

on campus today 1 elections during meals 
11-1 p.m. SBP Election S-7 p.m. On-campus students in halls Off-campus students in 0-C Office, Basement, La Fortune 


nd-smc 

meeting between the university and college bargaining teams either this week or next, there is no meeting scheduled. Mother Olivette was unavailable for comment. She is in California on a 30-day retreat. 
Although Fr. McCluskey chairs the Trustees committee on coeducation, he claims that the two other members of his com­
Sr. Gerald and Mother Olivette did not consult him before issuing the November decision to suspend unification. 

Objecting to the decision­making for the unification suspension, McCluskey urged the Board to reopen negotiations. 
"The members of my com­mittee had no business making that decision," Fr. McCluskey fumed. He invited Fr. Hesburgh and Stephan to addreess the January Board meeting, which agreed to renegotiage the problems. 
NO and SMC student body presidential campaign platofrms 
to  merge  the  student  bodies  
compelled  Fr.  McCluskey  to  
disclose  the  information.  

"Forget it! There is no merger. It is finished ! There is no future for St. Mary's College!" he ad­vised. 
Dziedzic 

down any further it may not exist any more." 
Abowd echoed these thoughts by saying that Kersten derived his support from those who are dissatisfied with student government. He added, "If we elect a joke as president next year, a year in which there will be many important issues, then we might as well padup an~d go home." 
In speaking of the issues, Higgins said that upcoming problems like coed dorms, parietals, restructuring the SG to better represent the student were too important to trust to a can­didate who has pledged that "He will do nothing if eleected." 
He continued "My plea is that you all vote for a serious can­didate. Obviously, I think that Ron and I are the best or I wouldn'. be running. But if it's not me, just don't vote for a joke." 
Specifically, she cited the little


Seymour 

or no interaction between Barlow and Barkett, Barlow's failure to keep her student government officehours. and the weekly hall meetings Barlow had promised her campaign which never materialized. 

"During the merger crisis, student government com­munication was excellent, but before and after it was virtually non-existent. Student opinion was never sampled before Kathy acted, and her viewpoint represented that of only one faction," Ms. Seymour claimed. 
Seymour went on to say that the coalition ticket representedby Maria Gallagher 
the most serious effort of all theClimaxing a hectic campaign candidates to effect com­week, candidates Jean Seymour munication between Notre Dame and Sue Welte last night spoke in and St. Mary's next year.
Regina and Holy Cross at SMC, "We did not choose a coalitionand toured Morissey, Keenan­because merger appeared im­Stanford, Zahm and Grace with minent: we merely hope to unitetheir running mates Bob Higgins two student bodies with similarand Ron Pogge. 
social and cultural interests.
At St. Mary's the candidates What the administrators choosestressed communication as the to do si their business. It's timekey to successful student to transcend the 'Notre Damegovernment. 
image' and the M. Mary's"A general lack of com­image' as separate entities," she munication, especially second said. 
semester, prevented the Barlow Seymour emphasized thatadministration from being as maintenance of communicationeffective as it could have been," would rally ND's support for theMs. Seymour asserted. 
SMC students' desire for merger 
Kezele b)· A•·t Quinn Students have got to make their views known on important issues in order to accomplish anything, SBP candidate Floyd Kezele said in his last night of campaigning. A student leader "can't take the students by the hand and lead him to meetings no matter how much some may need to be," the SLC vice-chairman said.  constitutnts concerning the same issue, Kezele continued. Such questionnaires are important, he explained, because then it is "not just one student standing up against the administration. "Over 700 students returned the questionnaire, he said. Kezele labeledhis candidacy as the only one "to take a definite stand against refrigerator fines."  
Kezele pointed out that the SLC meeting concerning sanctions last fall, that saw student Kezele pointed out that the SLC meeting concerning sanctions last fall, that saw 600 students attend, was influenced by their presence.  Faculty members of the SLC were also impressed with the student opinions obtained from a questionnaire which he sent to his  "Our campaign has laid out many specifics where the others have failed to do this,"he con­tinued. "We were the first and only candidates" he stressed "to really break from the Barkett ad­ministration."  



Caruso 
by Joseph Abell 

Accompanied supporters, SBP Caruso confronted Floyd Kezele in the Chapel last night. 
Saying that he was tired" of Kezele's concerning the sophomore issue of last year, Kezele before a crowd of about 60 and charged that his statements were false. 
Caruso contended that Kezele passing the 
that were 
Kezele said, 

was threatened since "the Administration will leap on the unfeasible parts and use that to defeat the entire bill." 
More ND, SMC endorsements announced 
by The Redman personally and have been very Tracey is confident that the confidence that they would be the administration policies and 

FREE UNIVERSITY impressed with her work in the Fitzpatrick-Orr ticket would be most able to "provide continuity decisions. She thought that by
academic areas and the merger. able to provide a "new type of
Larry Pino, Free University as consistency toward the growth not playing the role of critics of director, endorsed Eileen Fitz­As for Kezele, I don't know him challenge" to the administration, of a quality-educational en­the total universitv environment 
personally, but I think his ideas who would thus be forced to stop
patrick and Floyd Kezele vironment.'' they had been "detrimental t~
provide a framework from which ignoring students.
yesterday, as Student Body Barlow also praised Schlosser­students' rights at Notre Dame." 
much can be accomplished,"
Presidential candidates for St. Soldati for their decision for their 
Pino said.
Mary's and Notre Dame BARLOW ENDORSEMENT dedicatfon to the philosophy of AFRO-AMERICAN SOCIETY respectively. TRACEY ENDORSEMENT Kathy Barlow, St. Mary's self-determination. She said that Robert McCrady, Coordinator 
The Free University director Stressing the need for student Student Body President, en­the two are very much activists for the Society of Ujamaa (for­felt that Fitzpatrick and Kezele leaders who recognize and ac­dorsed Notre Dame's SBP and will be capable of merly the Afro-American best meet the requirements he tively demand what is essential hopeful Joe Schlosser and his challenging "the power structure Society l announced last night the 
feels are necessary for a suc­about St. Mary's life, former St. running mate Lincoln Soldati, that prohibits self-determination Society's endorsement of the cessful student body president. Mary's SBP Ann Marie Tracey while also throwing her support of students." She further Kezele-Jones, SBP-SBVP ticket. Pino said that it is essential for an endorsed Eileen Fitzpatrick and for Eileen Fitzpatrick and Mary stressed their concern for the McCrady stated the Society felt SBP to have knowledge of the Mary Orr as the next St. Mary's Orr as St. Mary's SBP and SBVP social and cultural atmosphere. that of all the candidates, Kezele situation as well as the ability to SBP and SBVP. candidates. Her announcement included a and Jones were the most sen­bring about changes he feels are The Tracey announcement In her endorsement statement, criticism of the present Notre sitive to the black needs on necessary. _ stated that the two candidates Barlow explained that she was Dame Student Government. ~ampus. "From our experience
He commended both can­are not only sypathetic to their confident the Fitzpatrick-Orr Instead of being the vehicle for :>f knowing Jones and our brief 
didates on their "storehouse of fellow student's needs, but have ticket would be the most com­student evaluation and im­contact with Kezele," said ideas" and said their philophies the "foresight and creativity" to mitted to the philosophy of self­provement of the university, the McCrady, "we feel they are of academics are very similar to respond to those needs. She was determination, which she stated present government she felt ;;incere and dedicated to their the Free University's. especially praiseworthy of their is the essential for student merely provided a vehicle for 1latform commitments to 
"I know Eileen <Fitzpatrick) stance on academics. Miss government. She also expressed communication to the students of ,inorities." 

THE O&rERfiSt 




The Man with the Crown 
There's a man with a crown running in today's SBP election. By all indications he has captured more support thanany othercandidate in the race. His platform is satire---he has deftly analyzed the nature of student government and student politics. In the best tradition of Jonathan Swift, he has rationalized the ludicrous. 
Bob Kersten's message is not as ridiculous as some may feel. What he is saying is basically true. A small group of students do run student government, the Observer and other organizations on campus. A lot of thes'e same people don't have, or care to have much contact with the ordinary students. A lot of them hold the positions they do because they have an inner need to. 
That it would be a very fine and sweet slap in the face of the student politicians--who often view the student body as so many cattle to be manipulated--to elect Bob Kersten cannot be denied. It cannot be denied, but neither can the fact that the election of Bob Kersten could hurt us. 
Take three situations that are now on the docket, waiting to be decided; co-ed dorms, fines on refrigerators and televisions, and the new calendar that will have us come back in mid-August. 
Student Government could have an influence in the decisions on these three problems. They could represent the students interests and perhaps force the administration to take our point of view for a change. 
Could Bob Kersten, as head of Student Government, get the ad­ministration to change their stance on these three things? 
Could Bob Kersten,crown and all, walk into a Vice-Presiden's meeting andpresentanalternative proposal for appliance fines, a proposal that would be accepted? 
If your revulsion against student government is that strong then do everyone a favorandvote for none of the above. Don't put the student. body in a position they might regret, bitterly, next year. 
Acapulco, or birth control pills.
The New Season Begins:=========================================================:=:::=::::::::::::::=~ Only Castles Burning=====:===============================================::::•::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Floyd Kezele Bob Higgins 
:=:::::::=:=:::::==========================================Jack Candon & Glen Corso ~=~::::::::;;.:::::::'i:.i::::::::::======================:~::o::::::::::::=:===================================:::::::::::::: John Abowd 
Colu~nist's n~te ·today is the great day, and I have spent it in hiding from my The effective use of student power has become a central issue in this year's SBP numerous enemtes so that I do not get assassinated before I get a chance to cast campaign. Unfortunately many candidates have made the mistake of assuming my ballot. Thus I relinquish today's column (please attempt to control your that the mere presence of students in large numbers at a college or university t>motions) to two of my colleagues. Mr. GlenS. Corso and Mr. Jack Candon. These guarantees a measure of power which, if effectively activated, can bring on 
two gentlemen, like myself, had been involved in the campaigns and have an wholesale changes in student life. This is simply not the case. Of all the candidates overview of the situation -probably a better one than I do. For what it's worth in this year's election only llob Higgins and Ron Pogge understand the fun­(probably nothing> everything said in this column reflects my own viewpoint. damental distinction between power and influence. 
Mr. Corso has edited the Observer for two years. Mr. Candon managed the The Student Body President has some influence by virtue of his office but this student body presidential campaign of Don Mooney last year, and helped say a lot influence, while it gives him access to informationwhich he might nototherwise have, of things that were rejected then, but which many people wish they had a second does not produce results merely because the SBP notes that there are 6,000 
chance to judge now. students breathing down his back waiting to spring into action. Converting in­fluence to political clout requires using more elements of the University com­
There are nine candidates running today. There are nine candidates and nine munity than just the students. supposedly different positions being expressed. A few have spoken eloquently and To understand this it is necessary to distinguish between parochial and universal to the point; some have satirized the Notre Dame life well, but not to a point; issues. Parochial issues apply only to Notre Dame (or whatever community being 
others have stumbled along. Sincerity is a common demoninator; practicality discussed). Good examples include sign-outs, permission to live off-campus and isn't. improving food services. All the genuine parochial issues at ND were settled years That practicality will be an important quality for the next Student Body ago. They were settled through blunt applications of force by the students: food President is evident. Recent events have supported this clearly and strikingly. riots, mass refusal to sign-out or threats of extensive national advertising. These 
What now appears to be the false hopes of merger with St. Mary's and amorerapid techniques worked because ND was clearly behind the times. By pointing out how 
and complete co-education; what now appears to be increasing restriction on backward the University really was it was possible to force concessions that student life through the use of punitive refrigerator and television fines; the merely brought ND up to the norm. Trustees stubborn refusal and the occasional administrative divine revelations Crude student power worked then but it will not work now. Higgins, Pogge and 
toward recognizing the true nature of student opinion on the parietal issues, for that matter all the other candidates except one are speaking of larger universal compound an already difficult situation. issues. University students all over the country are concerned with their rights as Floyd Kezele is a candidate with such practicality. During the year that was students within the college community <a community which depends on students 
somber to the point of morbidity, Kezele's work on the SLC was a bright spot un­for its existence but not soley on students-faculty and administrators also make duplicated, on campus. vital commitments to the school.) .) The universal issues of this campaign include John Barkett and his cabinet had the infamous report on sanctions a full week the right of students to determine living conditions in their own halls and more importantly the inclusion of students in the central decision-making processes of 
before the SLC meeting. They didn't release them. Floyd Kezele got the report 
two days before the meeting. He released the report immediately. Once the the University. This means open-hours, co-ed dorms and students on the Board of students, those that it concerned, realized the existence of the report, they turned A~ ~iggin~ and Pogg~ contend the only way to achieve these goals is through out in force to eloquently voice an opinion ignored, up to that point, by the trustees coahtwns. with. St. Marys students and faculty and NO faculty-with two segments 
of th~ .umversity pressuring for more input into the decision-making processes. 
and the student body president. Floyd Kezele didn't ignore it. At personal ex­
pense, he canvassed the two towers in an effort to find out how his constituency Specifically, this means keeping students and faculty informed as an issue 
develops; then, pressuring the administration from both the faculty base and the felt. They responded overwhelminglyagainst the sanctions proposed by the student base to make the necessary changes.
trustees and pondered on by the student body president. Action in an atmosphere 
of inaction. There are tow good examples of this method of working. First, at SMC during the unmerger-the students were aware of the key issues involved because of media
He has worked hard to put life into the SLC. His proposals include re-evaluation 
saturation. When the administration made a definitive move, both students andof the absolute veto power currently enjoyed by the trustees and some ad­faculty responded by pressuring SMC into renegotiaing. This was no accident:ministrators. Under a proposal he has presented during the campaign the men both the students and faculty had plenty at stake and St. Mary's studentwho actually make the decisions at this university would sit on the SLC. He has go~ernme~t.spen~ much effort to build the faculty-student during the early months e~deavored to m.a~e the top executives of ths university open to the novelty of of 1ts admm~strah?n. When action was necessary, they were prepared to move.
d1rect student opmwn. No longer would these men be able to make final decisions T~e on_ly time ~his method has worked at ND was during the srike in May, 1970.
without having them scrutinized and vocalized by those they effect, the students. 
Nationwide media c~verage of anti-war activity in 1969 and early 1970 kept theIn academics, all of Floyd Kezele's programs point towards self-determination. 
faculty and student~ mformed. A natural coalition between anti-war faculty andOpening up the pass-fail option, university exchange within the United States students_alr~ady ~xisted because of the moratoriums early in the year. When theexpansion of hall level classes -such as those that are now found in Farley -will Cambodian mvas10n occurred, students swung into action. But the whole efforthelp towards a total education rather than the finality of graduation. 
would have ~ailed if the faculty had not cooperated by supporting academic am­This quality of practicality will be by and large worthless unless the candidate nest~ .. Part~cularly, the Facu.lty ~enate endorsed the idea only hours before theelected gets the full support of the students during his term in office. It is admmistratwn met to make Its fmal consideration.
necessary, then, to vote today for the candidate you feel can most effectively The structures already exist to begin implenting a faculty-coalition. They arerepresent you. We must initiate our responsibility today and carry it through, so the Student Life Co~ncil and the student seats on the Faculty Senate. Prof.
that student government doesn't deteriorate into the time-worn student govern­Thoma~ S~artz, chairman of the Faculty Senate thinks the coalition is a good idea. 
ment attacked with useless hindsight every February. 
Bob H1ggms and Ron Pogge (in concert
We have disagreed over the past four years, but feel it necessary to come with their SMC running-mates Jean 
Seymour and Sue Welte) offer this alternative for Notre Dame. We mus. make this together to offer our singular opinions at this time. This upcoming year can be a political coaliton a reality. The only way is to vote for Higgins and Pogge today. 
students' year, but it can be a students' year only if we support our student body Student government is serious business; we cannot be afraid to face this challenge. 
president all year. • 
Tuesday, February 
29, 1972 771B· oarawa 
Prof. Thorson as SBP 
25 years ago • • • before the Prime Mover 
he does not feel that "heat" 
by Don Ruane today. Elections were 
Campus Editor "popularity contests" in the 
Some may find it hard to middle forties, Thorson claimed, believe that the first Irish and although there were "no leprechaun led the sudent crying issues, we got some very government nearly 25 years ago, able people in." but it is even harder to believe Admitting that he hasn't that he won the post after the followed the present campaign elected candidate was caught in closely, he was surprised that so the revolving door of a Cleveland many candidates are in the race, hotel with a waste basket by the and commented that this plus prefect of discipline. the none of the above option 
Believe it or not, that is the way "eould result in the least biology professor Ralph E. desirable candidatellnlessthere is Thorson came to the magic seat of a clear cut fav?rite." student power in 1948. 
The Forgotten Irishman Officia I Invitation recalled those days for the Ob­server from his Galvin Life Confrontation with the ad­Science Center office to share a ministration in his post WW II little nostalgia with our readers. days at duLac was practically 
Today's bureaucratic structure nil. However, one incident led is "quite a marked change" from Thorson to resign his office, and that of days gone past, according provided him with an official to Thorson. In 1948 student invitation to resign from the government was a 30-man llniversity. student council elected by the The incident, "which today students, except for one would seem absolutely representative from each ludicrous," the professor said, college. concerned Ellis Arnold, a for-
Thorson was represented the merer Alabama governor con­college of science, when he was sidered radical. The Rebels Club dected vice president of the the wanted Arnold as a speaker and council by the other members, as Thorson helped finance the event. were all council officers. He was As Arnold walked to the stage, elevated when the president was the prefect of discipline pulled caught going around in circles Thorson aside to tell him not to with his little souvenir . bring such speakers to Notre 
Although top officials were Dame. elected by a process "once Although Thorson resigned his removed from the students," the office, he declined the official system had built in "governors," invitation, because he was a according to the 49 year old Air second semester senior and in­Force veteran. Perhaps the most volved in other activities. important check was that leaders One reason there were no were well chosen. The student "challenging situations with the body was half of today's size, administration," according to the many were World War Two parasitologist, was the type of veterans. and generally knew student body. Being veterans, more about one another than they could go off campus to drink, today's "diluted" student body. and were "used to higher com-
Comparing elections, Thorson .mand." said there "was an intensity of "I thought the army was easy interest" in council elections, but compared with the rules here llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll' 
THE O&I'ERfiM 
THE STAFF THAT HAS Nite Editor: Anthony Abowd Assistant Nite Eds: Art Esposito, Nic Catrambone Day Editor: Pat "Redman" 'Tyrell Layout & Headlines: Chris Sullivan Early Shift: John Abowd Headliner: Dandy Don Biancamano 
Pictureman: Bob Hughes 
Test studier: george lund Controller of the Night : rick smith (complete with his misplaced sense of humor) Typists: Pat Kenney, Ann Druecker, Jim Flannigan, Debbie Gras, Dianne Cherm­side, Dan Rock, et al 
Rabble: Glen Corso, AT 
Darin, Ed Ellis, TC Treanor, 
Pete Fries, Mike Baum,Roger 
Burrell, Stan the Man, Art Ferranti. Jim McDermott, Joe Abell, Maria Gallaqher 
Entertainment: Mick Jagger, Keith Richards, Bill Wyman, Charlie Watts, Mick Taylor, Brian Jones, Peter Townshend, Roger Daltrey, Keith Moon, John Entwhistle 
News Editor: Jerry Lutkus 
Features Editor: T J Clinton 
Art Editor: Mike Murphy 
Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 



10% OFF 

On any mechanical 
work and winterizing. 
For stu!}ents and 
University Personnel 
Roseland Gulf 402 U.S. 31 North Across-from Burger King 
IT TOGETHER SMC Editor: Ann Conway 
1. 
Hi, Gilda, Maria, Kathy ­mike d. 

2. 
Long live the king! 


J. m.b.,  who needs  a  skirt  
anyway?  
4.  Racoon,  that  hat  is  
ridiculous!  

s. Beware of leap day ­E,B,H,B,R (Cathe, Jeanne, 
when I left in 1942," the professor said. 
Another reason is that the student council was very active, and provided many activities. H('sponsible for the Mardi Gras in 1948, which grossed $40,000; the council also ran victory dances on football weekends which made profits up to $4,000 a week. 
"In those days we had plenty of money: we were loaded," Thorson emphasized and ob­viously enjoying the memories. There was even extramoneyat the ('nd of the year, which "mysteriously disappeared," he said with a chuckle, quickly adding that it went into the University coffers. 
The professor also explained a raffle for the maternity fund in which he won one of those new fangled inventions called a television set. "It looked like a fix. but I had my tickets." 
Wouldn't Run, but 
As with any quarter century 

ehanges have come and the llniversity's general structure is no exception. Quickly dismissing any desire to run for SBP with an emphatic "No" wrapped in laughter. Prof. Thorson did outline a platform he might use if time were to play a cruel trick and put him on todav's ballot. 
First, but not most important is 
coeducation. "Student govern­
ment should be doing everything 
in its power to make it smooth. In 
our time we would never have 
been asked," he stated. 

His second plank, and perhaps tied for importnace, is the question of minority students. Thorson feels that Notre Dame must upgrade the quality of the minority student. The situation should be such that "if a kid is the kind of id that, if he was not a minority. could get in here, he would be grabbed up by the llarvards, the Ivy League schools." 
Faculty-student rapport seems to run neck and neck with the minority issue ofr Thorson. Noting it to be a "two way 

Tired of living on Campus? 
Come see the Notre Dame Avenue Apartments 
If you are looking for modern living, we have the answers: 
* 
Close to campus

* 
2 large bedrooms-Room for four students

* 
Large kitchen, dining room and plenty of storage space

* 
Fully carpeted living rooms with a prlvate patio and balcony

* 
9 & 12 month leases 


These apartments are completely furnished and are co-educational. 
Renting now for this summer and next fall 
Call 234-6647 
$1 00 a month while in school 
are looking for a few good men 
Dining Halls Noon and Evening Meals Today through 3 March 

street," he said it "just doesn't ('Xist" at Notre Dame. A hall fellow himself, Thorson said he can barely get to know the 50 students in one of his advanced courses, let alone the 350 in his general biology calss. He ad­vocated expansion of the hall fellows program and dining clubs where the two groups could mingle. 

The final plank supports the thought that student government is "top heavy with personnel. In 1948 the student council ran the whole show so that, according to Thorson, "If something went wrong there were fewer people to blame, but then there should always be somebody to blame." 

• The TnJP. liJA"IJry Car• 
• The World'> Mo'it Unrqoe Cart 
• VotP.d ThP. luxury Cor Of The Yeorl 



troen 

Used Specials Of T Week 
70 FIAT 124 SPORTS COUPE Sharp An excellent buy 11 850 FIAT RACER Like new, real savings 1>9 124 SPORTS COUPE A choice of 2 68 VOLVO Real Sharp 70 OLDSMOBILE Power Steering & Brakes, Automatic NEW 124 SPORTS COUPES 6 to choose from 

auto/sport 
-· 
~an. 
52148 u.s. 31 N. 
South Bend ' 
Phf1!~_2]2·215C 
Tuesday, February 29, 1972

..... THE OIJSERVER. 

Schlosser 

by Mike Baum Wrapping up the last day of campaigning before the election Joe Schlosser and Lincoln Soldati called last night for a new student activism, and urged "creation of a culture". Speaking in several halls, the team slammed the Ad­ministration for trying to create "neat little Notre Dame package men, "and the Barkett govern­ment for ignoring the uses of student power." S~,>eaking before receptive au~Iences, the office hopefuls pomted to their own records as activists, Schlosser a strike worker and Coalition for Political Action member and Soldati an underground newspaper publisher and union organizer in the Army. (Soldati noted that he had stood before seven court­martials and been convicted byone.) Both placed emphasis on the ne~essity of organizing the residenc~ halls as units, citing the panetals question as an example of a case where halls should legislate their own regulations and present the Administration with a fait ac­('Oillflli. "People are going to have to start making the niles th~t run their lives," Soldati said. 

Kersten 
by Jim Roe SBP hopeful and Prime Mover 

H. Calhoun Kersten spoke before crowds numbering between 150 and 500 people in rallies last night in the North and South Quads. 
Addressing students from a burning waste-basket on the fourth floor ledge of Walsh Hall, Kersten ordained his campaign saying, "God is with us. It wasn't 

easy to God's calling at 
flame over my head in the mirror one morning while I was shaving, I knew my manifest wisdom and awesome power were needed for this political apocalypse." 
Pat Steenberge, speaking as the un-quarterback, endorsed Kersten's divinity as "the only way we can defeat the USC Trojans, for Troy was an 
Soldati also pointed to the Administration's "favorite trick" of "pulling any change right before a holiday or over the summer". so that any anger aroused will be mitigated by the time the students return. He argued that this was the way the Administration accomplished thin~~ from its superior strategic position. and said that a organized student body was needed to combat these tactics. 
oligarchy." Steenberge claimed he came "not as a politically minded contemporary, but as one who sees the need for divine intervention r,n our campus." 
Kersten, also known as the "commode candidate" vowed "that when popular mannat~ flushes me into office, I will make every command to see the students' wishes are fulfilled provided, of course, they should coincide with my own arbitrary desires." 
He also denied any rumors that SBP John Barkett would be backing him in return for the chairmanship )) the Committee for Redundancy Committee. Kersten felt that, in fact Barkett desired a monument in his name by the grotto. 
In a similar rally from the roof of Stanford and Keenan Halls Kersten disclaimed rumors that he was contemplating with­drawing from the SBP race. 
The crowd responded en­thusiastically as Kersten re­affirmed his aboslute divinity and recounted how two leppers had been cured while listening to his word at a previous rally in front of Walsh Hall. 
Kerseen told the multitude that 
"for everyone of you who vote 
!wice you will receive a plenary 
mdulgence. And looking down 
upon your fresh, young faces I 
see that many of you hereneedit." 





OBSERVER 
election close-out 


BEST BANDS IN TOWN 
-Two Bands a night -Dancing 6 nights a week 

(closed Monday.) -No cover on Tues., Wed., Thurs. -Open till 2 a.m. .,.__ "0ne stop entertainment center" 
Cocktail lounge Bowling Billiards 
Sf.,./"~ j\f;te C/u~ 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
616/683-4350 
The. Observer is published dally during the college semester except vacat1ons by the. st~dents of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscnpt1ons may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. · 

Fitzpatrick 
by Beth Hall 

Kathy Barlow, St. Mary's SBP, endorsed Eileen Fitzpatrick and Mary Orr last night before a small crowd in the LeMans Hall recreation room. 
Ms. Barlow said, "The reason for the endorsement is based on the political philosophy of self­determination." She continued, "Eileen has a broader per­spective of what St. Mary's is and should be all about." 
Ms. Barlow concluded that "If St. Mary's is a college dedicated to the education of women, the 

Thomas 
by Pete Fries 

Expressing "disgust" with the campaigns of SBP candidates Chuck Luken ann Gary Caruso, Dennis Thomas rebuked the pair for their failure to debate with him. 
lloth candidates had issued 
challenges to all presidential 
candidates. Only Thomas 
responded . 

"It was just a lot of rhetoric " 
contended candidate Thomas.' 


Luken 
by Mike O'Hare 

Asked about his pre-election thoughts, Chuck Luken responded "Walt and I consider ourselves the only alternative to the bureaucracy." 


"The students have a chance to opt for a change, to elect someone outside the bureaucracy and get only way to fully educate is to have personal responsobility lie with the women themselves. That is what I worked for this year and what Eileen will work for next year." 


Ms. Fitzpatrick followed Ms. llarlow with a discussion of her platform, giving emphasis to student's services. She con­tended that St. Mary's lacks sufficient student union acti­vities. "The students do~;t benefit enough from the Student Union funds," she said. 
"Caruso and Luken never in­tended to debate, but just wanted to be projected as gutsy can­didates." 
Thomas said that he had responded to a challenge he said was made by Chuck Luken to debate openly at Shula's but that "nothing was made" of his response. 
Canvassing Green-Phillips and Farley Halls, Thomas argued for his proposals for "academic halls" and "a stronger university community" next year. 
emphasized his campaign as not telling the students what to think but rather asking their opinions. 
In response to the suggestions of several candidates that the student government fee be raised, Luken responded "We ran't do this until the students know where the money is going." 
Instead of raising the fee, he suggested that the contract with the ACC be renegotiated. By gett~ng rid of the profit ceiling, the mcreased proceeds could go to student government and make 
Observer should exercise their journalistic responsibility more earefully in the future. "In ad­dition, Luken cited T.C. Treanor as, "playing the role of king~aker during the campaign, lookmg at the machines instead of the candidates." 
Concerning his election predictions, Luken believed that Bob Kersten would be in the runnoff, but considers it very 
Fitzpatrick proposed the use of Heidinger House as a student center and features such as "Over-the-Hill concerts, TGIF's and a variety of lectures." 
Ms. Orr contiimed, "We need a Social Commission again to provide the students with an improved social atmosphere on the SMC campus." 
While speaking floor to floor at McCandless Hall earlier in the evening, Ms. Fitzpatrick at­tacked the administraion's offer of a 30-40 hour a week "parietal ceiling." She contends the offer is a "bastardization of hall autonomy and self­determination." 
"The decision of parietals mush be made within the hall, by the students, not handed down by the administration," she con­cluded. 
Fitzpatrick added, "I had to be sure that students could be effective and that there was potential power before I decided to run." 


students will vote for a workable change, which he believes that he and Spak offer. 
the raise in the fee unecessary. If 
the ACC is reluctant to 
renegotiate, Luken advocates threatening to have the concerts at Morris Civic Auditorium. 
Luken emphasized that he and r~nning mate Walt Spak and himself have tried to carry the campaign to the students despite thl' Obsl'rver . He felt that "the 


MCAT 
Preparation for Medical College Admissions Test 
For information write GRADUATE Studies Center Dept. MTS P.O. Box 386 N ' 
York N.Y. lOOll ' ew 


IYESIIF YOU WANT TO FIND OUT WHY EVERYONE ELSE IS TALKING ABOUT THIS MOVIE. 
INOjiF YOU SHOCK EASIILY, OR YOU THINK AN X -RATING IS NOTHING BliT A DEFINITION FOR SMUT. 
IYESIIF YOU'VE EVER BH:N IN LOVE, AND KNOW HOW BEAUTIFUL THAT EXPERIENCE CAN BE. 

Tuesday, February 29, 1972 .,.tarBifM !W J 

Gamecocks rip ND five, 109-83 
by Vic Dorr clicked on 12 of 14 field goal at-controlled the boards effectively fattened to 15, 51-36. The 15-point At the 12:00 mark of the and usually limited ND to one­margin was to hold for the rest of second half, whatever slim hopes 
Last night, in front of a near tempts. 
shot offensive efforts. the half. the Irish might have ben nursing full-house crowd at the Notre Dame made a game of it A pair of free throws by 6 10 vanished. Carver stole an Irish
University of South Carolina, the ror much of the first half, and the The Gamecocks cooled off­
forward Tom Riker pulled S. C. to pass and soloed in for a lay-up,
Irish basketball team played Irish well played well offensively slightly at the start of the second 
within one of the Irish, and then a Kevin Joyce followed with a
unwilling victim to a very of-themselves during the early period, and the Irish pulled to
20-foot jumper by Bob Carver running, one-hand field goal, and 
fensive-minded group of u.S.C. going. ND shot better than 50 per within 13, 63-50. But Winters Gamecocks. cent during the opening stanza, scored on a court-length pass,
gave Carolina the lead, 11-10. Riker netted a lead pass from 7-o but the Irish defense could not Gary Novak's answering bucket Danny Traylor to make the
and Riker tossed in a left-handed
The Carolinians thumped the long contain the red-hot gave ND its last lead of the game. score 90-61.
hook to start U.S.C. on another
Irish 109-83, and they did it Gamecocks. But the Irish did manage to tie . Willie Townsend saddled
wastear.

mainly on the strength of a torrid the Gamecocks at 17 with 13:45 with his fifth personal foul
first half. In that first period, ND held early leads of 2-o and 4-Irish Coach Digger Phelps
left in the first half, and the 
moments later, but by then itCoach Frank McGuire's 2, but the Irish reached their began the game with the squad 
Carolina coach wasted no time in 
didn't make any difference.
Gamecocks ran up a 61-46 biggest cushion of the evening of Tom O'Mara, Gary Novak,
sending Brian Winters into the 
Carver dropped in a free throwmargin, shot an unbelievable 71.8 when Gary Novak's bucket gave Willie Townsend, John Egart and
contest. Winters, who scored 24 
with just under eight minutes to.
per cent from the field, and . them a 10-7lead. After that it was Don Silinski, but he alternated
points in South Carolina's 88-82 play to make it 99-69, and the final 
displayed a pair of backcourt all South Carolina. The Gamecock frequentlythroughout thecontest.
victory over Davidson Saturday, 
score would have been muchmarksmen who, between them, front line, tall and physical, Only Novak and O'Mara, though, 
ignited an S.C. spurt that sent the 
worse had not the Gamecocks were able to score consistentlyIrish reeling.
Jim Donaldson~:!:!:~!:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:::=:=:!:=:!:::!:!:!:!:::!:::~:::::::::::: gone cold during the clsoing
against the Gamecocks.
The 6-4 sophomore was perfect 
minutes of play. Notre Dame 
on his first five shots from the O'Mara led the Irish in scoring closed the gap to 99-78 beforeThe Irish Eye with 25 points, and Novak Riker broke the Carolina drought 
,I 
floor, and it didn't take the rest of the Carolinians long to pick up followed him up with 23. They with a lay-in at the 4:00 mark, the tempo. With Winters and were the only two ND players to and both coaches began sub­
,•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ;~r.•,...........--.••.-.•,.-.,.;. 'J J
···=-=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=···=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=-=·=·=·=·=-=·=·:-=··-=o!·!.'«-=···;,····!~R''ayo· .,., Ratter 
Carver <both of whom were six of reach double figures. Don Silinski stituting freely after that. seven from the field during the finished with nine points, Chris Irish reserves Greg Schmelzer, Notre Dame remained in the thick of the Western Collegiate Hockey first half) hitting from outside, Stevens had seven, Willie and. Tom McGraw, and Tom Hansen •.
Association playoff battle by sweeping its two-game series with and Riker dominating play un­Mike Townsend six, and John along with Mike TownsendMichigan last weekend at the ACC. But whether or not the Irish will derneath, the S.C. lead soon Egart four. and Chris Stevens, finished thequalify for post-season play will be decided this weekend. 
game for ND.
Notre Dame's 7-2 and 9-4 wins over the Wolverines upped the icers' The win boosted Southleague record to 9-15 and enabled them to climb from ninth place into a Carolina's record to 20-4, and left tie for seventh with Colorado College. The Irish and the Tigers both them with llh excellent chancehave 26 title points this year while Michigan, which dropped to ninth, of obtainingan at-large big to thehas 24. 
NCAA tournament. Tom Riker 
Colorado kept pace with the Irish by whipping Denver 9-7 Saturday· paced the Gamecock effort with


OBSERVER
in Colorado Springs after absorbing a 13-2 thrashing at the hands of 31 points, but the home team the Pioneers Friday in Denver. 
placed four other players in Oddly enough, however, it is Michigan which probably has the best double figures.
chance of qualifying for the playoffs. Unlike Notre Dame and Carver finished with 21 points,
SPORTS
Colorado, which play four-point series this week, the Wolverines host Winters with 16, Joyce with 14,
last place Minnesota in an eight-point series. And Minnesota hasn't and Rick Aydlett with 11. 
Pages 7 aDd~
won a four-point game all season while Michigan is 9-3 on home ice. 
Notre Dame's record is now 6-· 
Colorado faces a pair of ro!id games against Minnesota-Duluth. 
18. 
UMD is currently fifth in the standings but is only two points out of third and will be fighting to finish in the top four and get the all­important home ice advantage for the opening round of the playoffs. 
Swimmers lose two meets 
The Tigers will be in Duluth on Wednesday and Friday so the Wolverines and the Irish will know just whattheyhave to do against The past weekend was not a meet. with the lead changing llame. their opponents to make the playoffs. successful one for the Notre hands on nearly every event. ND The outcome of the meet was in 
Notre Dame will wind up their season at home but will have to face I lame swimming team. finished first in six of the races, doubt until the final several one of their arch-rivals, the Spartans of Michigan State. MSU had The Irish tankers entered the and again it was Jim Kane who events. but M.arshall clinched it been one of the hottest clubs in the league, winning 11 of 12 games, weekend's competition with a 7-3 paced the Irish effort. Kane, by finishing first and second in before losing two on home ice last weekend to league-leading l'ecord. and needed a sweep of again the lone double winner, the 200 backstroke, first and Wisconsin. The Spartans have a precarious hold on third place going their meets with Northern Illinois posted times of 1:50.5 in the 200 second in the 500 freestyle, and into this week's action. and Marshall U. to assure freestyle and 49.5 in the 100 first and third in the 200 
There are a number of ways that Notre Dame could make the themselves of the best record and fl'eestyle. breaststroke. playoffs. Most simply, they must match Colorado's win total in the the highest winning percentage in 
<~ene Krathaus turned in Notre Dame rallied in thelast two games. If the Irish can do that, they can finish no worse than Notre Dame swimming qistory · another personal low of the meet's last two events-the Irishtied for eighth, the last playoff spot, with Colorado and would But coach Dennis Stark's crew season with a time of 22.2 in the 50 finished first and third in theautomatically qualify for tournament play because they have out-was not able to earn a sweep. Nor freestyle, and Chris Payne three-meter diving and easilyscored the Tigers 23-9 while beating them three out of four times this were they able to earn a split. 
1three-meter divingl was the won the 400 freestyle relay--butseason. The Irish were defeated by · other individual winner for Notre their efforts fell one point short.
If Michigan wins twice,they will finish seventh, but if the Wolvernes Northern Illinois' Huskies on win only one game against Minnesota, the Irish can finish ahead of Friday afternoon, 64-59, and were them by beating State twice, or end up in a tie with Michigan if they shaded by Marshall 57-56 the only win once this weekend. Since Notre Dame outscored the following day. The two setbacks 
N D thin clads beaten 
Wolverines 26-18 while splitting four games this year, the Irish would will send the swimmers into next . by &ic KID~: . and qualified him for the NCAAbemoveduptobreakthedeadlock. weekend's Motor City In-indoor championships in thatNotre Dame coach Lefty Smith has his own formula for making the vitational with a 7-5 mark. The Broncos of Western event.
playoffs. "We've got to win to be positive of getting in," he said Fl'iday's loss to Northern Michigan Unviersity swept the yesterday. Illinois was Notre Dame's first final three events in their dual Mike's 23-5 mark in the long home pool loss of the season, and meet with the Irish trackmen jump was also a season high for 
"Denver didn't help us out so we're back in the same boat we were in the lluskies engineered their win 
him.
Saturday afternoon in the ACCbefore the Michigan series," Smith commented. "We can't worry Eric Penick had his jets turned about the otherteams,we'vegottodothej'obourselves." by grabbing first place in seven and posted a come from behind 
of the l:l events. Included in the victory over coach Alex Wilson's on again this weekend, breezing
"The two games with State are very important to us and we know collection of Huskie blue ribbons to victories in the 60 and 300 yard
charges, 71-60.
what we have to do," he continued. "The full , playoff picture won't was a new record for the Rockne dashes.
But despite the loss, it was,

be decided until Saturday night." 1\lemorial pool--a 2:05.5 in the 200 Penick who has already
perhaps, the best individual
"The kids played well last weekend. They've got the playoffs yard butterfly by Gene Mulloy. qualified for the NCAA's in the
showing by some of coach
looming in front of them and it se~ th~ir ~drenalin flowing," he SB;id. .lim Kane, the meet's lone :lOO posted times of 6.3 (in the 60)
Wilson's top performers this 
Many of the Irish turned m msptred ~rforrnances a~amst double winner. continued to shine and 31.8 <in the 300).Greg Cortina 
year.
Michigan. Goalie Mark Kronholm was superb m the net, makmg 65 for the Irish. He posted first continued to dominate the shot
Tom McMannon won the 

saves in five periods and giving up only four goals. place finishes in the 200 yard put competition topping all
nomination for the most im­
Freshman Les Larson, filling in for Steve Curry who was sidelined I I :-t9.5l and 100 yard (49.3) competitors with a toss of 59-5.
pressive performance of the 
with mononucleosis, did a solid job on defense for the Irish. freestyle events. Three other Elio Polselli finished right behind 
afternoon as he set a new varsity
Offensively, the John Noble-Eddie Bumbacco-Ian Williams line Irish swimmers--John Sherk, Joe Greg with a 57-71,-2 effort.
and ACC mark in the 60-yard high 
went on a scoring rampage, racking up eight goals. Noble led the v:ay Fisher. and Gene Krathaus-­hurdles. Mike Gahagan wrapped up the with four tallies and added five assists to take over the team sconng l'ecorded individual bests for the Irish first place finished with a
Tom won the 60-yard highs with 

lead. The junior center has 16 goals and 36 assists this season. season the the 500 freestyle blue ribbon in the 1000-yard dash. · 
a time of 7.2, eclipsing the old
Williams played some of his best hockey this se~sonagainst Michigan l b t t k 
<2 25 O) Mike won the event with a time of · 
· fl . 1:1:07.8 ,200 reas s roe : . varsity mark Qf 7.3 held by three
and scored two goa Is while Burnbacco, emergmg rom a scormg and freestyle c22.3) respec-2:15.0.
50 former Irish hurdlers, and the
slump, added two more. lively. The Broncos took eight of the 15
ACC mark,held by George Buers 
Paul Regan returned to action against Michigan. skating between The Huskies took control of the events, including a win by
of Kansas and Bill Tipton of 
Larry Israelson and Jim Cordes. The club's top goal-getter, Regan meet from the start by winning Central Collegiate champion pole 
Eastern Michigan.
boosted his total to '1:1 with a pair of markers. the 400 medly relay and grabbing vaulter Larry Robards with an
And for the first time this 

The Notre Dame players weren't the only people in the ACC ice rink first and second in the 1000 season, the McMannon brother effort of 15-6. whose adrenalin was flowing. "These were the most enthusiastic freestyle. but it wasn't until later act finally got off the ground. The loss to WM dropped the ND crowds I've seen in my four years at Notre Dame," coach Smith said in the competition--when the Not to be outdone by his kid dual meet mark to 2-2. 
of the fans who cheered the Irish on last weekend. lluskies earned first and second brother, Mike, after finishing Western Michigan was par­With the Fanatics, roaring to the beat of Pete Fries' drum, showing , i.n the 200 backstroke and the second to Tom in the 60-yard ticipating in dual meet com­the way, the rest of the crowd joined into root the Irish past the hree-meter diving events-that highs with a time of 7.4, won both petition for the first tirne this' 
season.
Wolverines. .; . they iced their victory. the triple and long jump events "I was very pleasedwiththe student response at the game," Smith Things were much the same for and qualified for the NCAA's in The Irish will travel to Prin­
ceton New .T£!rsey this weekend to 
said. "Everyone on the club felt strongly about it. It gave us the the Irish in Saturda~·s meet with the process. feeling that the student body was behind us and was a real 1\larshall. The Ir1sh volleyed Mike's effort of 48-9 in the triple compete i d the ICAAAA cham­
pionships.
psychological boost." · with Marshall for the entire jump was his best of the season, 

by Joe Wilkowski fencers were equal to the task, respectively. Sabreman Ron The Notre Dame fencing team waltzing to an easy_ 17-10 victory. Sollitto took 9 decisions, 
dropping only 1. Epeeist Chuckwas on the road Friday and • Only the Badger fml team put up Saturday, and they returned with · much of a struggle, taking 6 of 9 Harkness also lost only one bout, as opposed to his 7 victories.

four victories over Big Ten ~outs. Both sabre and epee led North Carey went 2-1 in epee,rivals. Their victims were ND attack, each breezmg to 7-. 
foilsman Jim Froess was 2-0 and

perennial power Wisconsin, Big ~ marks. 
Joe Pauwels earned a 2-1 recordTen leader Illinois, Purdue, and 

Friday night, the Irish tuned up 
in saber.

Indiana. 
for the quadrangular with a 23-4 
Coach Mike DeCicco was ex­The victory over Illinois decision over Purdue. All 9 

tremely pleased with Notre

Saturday was a big one for the epeeists were victorious for 
Dame's performance this

Irish, since the Illini had been Notre Dame, and the other two weekend. He had a right to be, for defeated only once before this weapons also feasted on the in addition to the seniors, some year. In the 19-8 decision, it was Boilermakers. Foil won 8 bouts 
underclassmen showed great

the sabre team that contributed while sabre took 6 of their 9 potential for next year. Mikethe knockout blow, achieving a decisions. 
Cornwa11, foil captain as a junior,perfect 9-0 slate. The epee and As their varsity careers draw had a 9-2 record over the best the foil teams each added four wins. 

to a close, it seems that the Big Ten could offer. Dan The Irish next faced Indiana in 
seniors on the team have decided Mulligan, a junior sabreman, the quadrangular meet, and ND 
to go out with a bang. That was posted a strong 7-1 record as the 
took an easy 21-6 decision from what happened this weekend, as third starter in the weapon. Mike the hapless Hoosiers. Again, the upperclassmen posted a Matranga, in epee, finished sabre was perfect in the victory, fantastic 40-4 record. Sabre Saturday at 6-2. and foil and epee were not far captain Matt Fruzynski and epee The Irish fencers travel East behind, posting 6-3 records. captain Tim Taylor had perfect next weekend, facing Buffalo, 
Wisconsin posed the final days over the weekend, gar­Syracuse and Case Western challenge to the Irhsh, and the nering 10 and 8 victories, Heserve. 
Majeta trying to revive Crypt 
committee would also eliminateuphold such decisions.
by Don Ruane 
the problem of having the SLC

The petition, fourth on Thur­
Campus Editor consider all proposals presented 

sday's agenda, reached the floor 
.John Mateja was not really to the body, in that it (the com­

seven minutes before the meeting 
angry at the Student Life Council mittee) would have the power to
was to end. In those seven
last Thursday, but optimistic that kill an appeal in committee,"
. minutes a motion to extend the
the legislative body may act on Mateja stated.
meeting 15 minutes was soundly vice president for student affairs. 
appeals to decisions made by the 
defeated by the faculty and ad­Mateja was refused permission However, the Crypt may not be 
' ministration members, and a 
from that office last fall to reopen motion to extend discussion 10 dead yet, according to Mateja,minutes was dismissed by
the Crypt, a student discount who thinks the petition will pass,
Chairman William Egan as
record store which he operated "if not this year, hopefully next privately for two semesters in already defeated. year even though it won't make LaFortune Student Center, under "I got the impression it was a any difference to me, being a student Union ownership. senior."
·specific stall by the ad­
The New Castle, Pa. senior ministration to postpone debate began his fight with the SLC last 
on the issue," Mateja stated, and spring when Fr. Thomas E. 
criticized Egan's handling of the Dlantz, vice president for Student 
10 minute extension motion. Affairs, threatened to close the 
He added that he didn't expect Crypt. The issue was raised at a specific decision, but was the SLC by student represen­surprised that debate was tatives, but nothing came of it. postponed. What irks Mateja most about
After Fr. Blantz vetoed the the whole situation is that therecord store in the fall, an appeal 

was placed before the SLC, and it decision to block the Crypt was made by one administrator in­
recommended that the vice 
stead of a tri-partite committeepresident review his decision. 
consisting of a student, faculty,Fr. Dlantz reviewed it, and 
and administrative represen­
returned another thumbs down decision. 
tative. 

Mateja, known among friends "I would have been satisfied if as "Hairy" because of his the decision had been handed shoulder length hair, countered down by a tri-partite committee. with a petition signed by at least This would alleviate the student 50 students, in accordance with problem of having to appear only SLC bylaws, which would give before a sometimes biased ad­the SLC power to overrule or ministration official. This 

PICTURE YOURSELF AS 


Picture a ica. 

~i~~~~iil~ ilr
founder who 
was a century ahead of his time. A man with a vision that came true. A man with a belief that a Community could be modern and flexible enough to meet the needs of the Church in every age as they arise. A Community that wouldn't lag behind the times on leaden feet. A Community that would communicate through the spoken and printed word and one that wouldn't be hampered by specific activities when new needs arise. 
Next, picture the men in this new Community. They would be flexible. Each one would use his own individual talents in his own way and would be given the .free­dom to do so. 
These are the Paulists. The modern religious Community. Keeping pace with the times. Concerned. Involved. 
If you can picture yourself as a Paulist, why not write for more information to: Rev. Donald C. Campbell, C.S.P., Vocation Di­rector, Room No. 400 

415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 

Mike Cornwall won 9 of II bouts over the weekend. 
CT4ASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Desperately need ride to Cleveland this weekend. MARC-­6746. 
wanted -ride to denver for spring break, can leave almost anytime-· please call chip..8256. 
POETRY WANTED for An­thology. Include stamped en­velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90021. 
Panzerblitz aficionados wanted. 
Call 1433. 


Desparately need ride lo Des Moines this weekend. Call SUE 5422. 
Ride needed to Long Island area. 
Can leave Thursday -7956. 

Wanted: 2 nonbleacher tixs Williams-Mancini, TRACY 5230. 
Need ride to Cleveland. March 2 or 3. 4864. 
Ride needed to Dayton and back March 3. Call CHRIS 8659. 
Need ride to Peoria (or within hour radius) Mar. 3 4374. 
Need ride to Cincinnati or Dayton. Will pay expenses. 6880.
Sociology Major needs couples living together, not married, to answer questionnaire. Please call 234-1926. 
FOR SALE 
'63 Impala, good condition. $200. Call 233-7323, after 5:00pm. 
GREAT CAMERA BUY--Canon 
Ganonet QL25: 35mm. 
rangefinder focus, f2.5 lens, auto 
or manual operation, Canon 
"quick load" mechanism, like 
new, just factory reconditioned, 
with case, only $55. Will explain! 
Call 283-8180 -NOW! 
Golf Cart for sale or rent. Call JIM 8906. 
FOR RENT 
2-three bedroom furnished houses available June or Sept. 234-5830. 
$40 mo. rooms. Girls only. 233­1949. 
-
LOST AND FOUND 
-
Lost: Blue and gold knit scarf. Call TOM 1437. Reward. 
-
PERSONALS 
To the Four Incognitos, The myth has been broken. We really had a good time. 
The Converted Four 
Thanks, Fourth Floor Love, Jean, Alison, L;Mort, Lish 
Rich, Dave, Kevin & Harry No. 
3253 
Thanks for ice cream Love Kathy, Missy, Punky & Terri 
NOTICES 
Parts and Accessories for lm­ported Cars. Foreign Car Parts 
Co.  215  Dixieway  North  
(Roseland) 272-7187.  
SAVE  YOUR  HANDS  FOR  

BETTER THINGS--TYPING DONE FAST AND REASONABLE. CALL MIKE 6963. 
DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and Within Europe. Leave anytime from NY Chicago. Flight Center 227 North Randall, Madison, WI 53705. (608) 263-3131. 
New 7th & 9th grade classical-christian school needs English, Latin, Math and Science teachers. 
Since salaries will be small the first year, we're looking for graduate students (preferably with Masters) to work part-time while at Notre Dame. Send Vita, references, etc. to Magdalen School, P.O. Box 1225, South Bend, 46624. 
WILD FLICK. Don't miss campus thriller of year -WAIT UNTIL DARK. Sponsored by Youngstown Club. Sat. Mar. 41h Engineering 7 -9 -11. 
CIVIL ENGINEERS Join AC­TION, the Peace Corps-Vista team, and use your talents to help others help themselves. See ACTION recruiters at the Lib~ary Feb. 28-March 3. Or phone 283­6255. 
ARCHITECTS, PLANNERS-Get year's of experience in a short time with ACTION (Peace Corps-Vista). Put your skill to use helping others. See ACTION recruiters in the Library this week. Or phone 283-6255. 
MBA'S, LAW MAJORS-ACTION, The Peace Corps-Vista agency needs your skill to help others develope theirs. See ACTION recruiters at the Library Feb. 28­March 3. Or phone 283-6255. 
The Italian-American civil rights league endorses Dziedzic-Sherrod for office. Vote. 
"Scarface" 
HEY! Edge City, St. Mary's Coffeehouse LIVES. Every Sunday night, 8-12. Best local talent. good coffee. Just a quarter. 
CHIMES accepting poetry, fie-lion, essays, graphics. Submit to 
D. Kerr -533 McCandless, R. Campell -813 Grace. I. Knoles-P. Smith 334 Dillon. 
Words 1da 2da 3da 4da Sda 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16·20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21·25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26·30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 








