

On The Inside 
Fr. Burtchaell's Viewpoint ..... Pg. s 
Watergate... Pg. 6 



vol. VII No.8 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Wednesday, September 20, 1972 

Disscussion centers on SLC elections 
Hall presidents meet in St. Ed's 
By Pete McHugh Obscrvt>r Staff Reporter 

Student Life Council elections, allotment of hall finances and bicycle theft were among the topics discussed last night in St. Edward's Hall. 
The meeting was closed for discussion among the presidents, until HPC Chairman William "Butch" Ward opened it ten minutes after its start. 
Ed Ellis, a member of the Student Government Election Committee explained voting procedures for today's election, and stressed the need for attendants to observe the balloting at all times. He urged that everyone who votes be registered, and Ward em­phasized the importance of the elections noting that the winners may have to choose the successor of King Kersten should he resign. 
Election boxes will be delievered to the halls between 
10:30 and 11:00 a.m. today, according to Ellis. Voting will continue until 7 p.m. Registration before voting is mandatory, with each student giving his name, class and identification number. 
Ward added, "If we are to create an atmosphere at all conducive to Student Government, we will have to show responsibility." 
Hall Allocations 
Ward brought up the subject of hall allotments for 
renovation, or other needs. He said this money is not to 
be used for gerieral maintainance, but for larger needs 
such as the creation of study areas or lounges. 
There will be $50,000 available for distribution. 

Mentioning that the Board of Trustees isin no hurry to dispense this fund, Ward urged the council to submit their reports as soon as possible. Distribution decisions will be made by Fr. Jerome Wilson, vice president for business affairs. 
Noting the continued incidence of bicycle theft on campus, Research and Development Commissioner Jim Clark described the planned bike registration procedu-re. 

There will be a 75 cent registration fee, and serial 
numbers will be punched into the frames of bicycles 
without them. It will be done by halls beginning with 
Flanner and Grace, where the theft rate has been 
highest. For more information, contact Clark at the 
Student Governnment offices. 
In a related traffic matter, Ward called for the en­for~ement of campus speed limits to prevent any more accidents such as the Friday night hit and run incident. Ward has met with the acting vice president for student 
affairs about the matter. 
Coed Housing 
A significant part of the meeting was given to 
discussion of coed housing. No opposition was voiced 
against men and women sharing the same hall, but 
there was mixed emotions about the reality of such a 
dorm on campus. 
Mike Cunningham, of Dillon, felt the council should 
wait before forming a position since the coeducational 
experience is only two weeks old. 
Jim Ferguson, of Howard, felt that any HPC action 
would be useless. Inresponse to plans to organize coed 
housing study groups hs said, "No matter how many 
'SLCs you have and how much you put into student 
government, the fate of the University will still be in 'the hands of the trustees and the administration." 
In other matters the HPC agreed to admit a 
representative from the Old College, and discussed 
homecoming activities, judicial boards, housing for 
visiting high school seniors, and a request by the St. 
Joseph's County United Fund for student volunteers. 

Kennedy
SLC elections held in halls today 

to speak 
By Tom Drape 
Elections to decide members for the Student Life Council will be held today in each hall. To help determine your choice, the Ob­server is providing a brief sketch of each candidate. 
DISTRICT I (Off-Campus) 
Jim Hunt: Hunt is best known as editor of the ND yearbook, Dome, last year. He is also a photographer for the Observer and Domt>. Transferring his talents off-campus this year, he would hope to keep the OC's represented. 
Tim Schwartz: Schwartz is emphasizing enthusiasm rather than qualifications in his bid. Calling for biweekly meetings rather than monthly, he stated that he would devote 10-15 hours a week to the job. 
Bob Sauer: A former stay senator in student governement, Sauer was a member of the ND­SMC Constitutional Merger Committee. He was a severe critic of the Township Plan for student government last year. 
DISTRICT II <Farley, Breen­Phillips, Cavanaugh, St. Ed's) 
Matt Cavanaugh: Cavanaugh is a junior in engineering. Although an evicted Badin Hall tenant, he has yet to decide on a plan for co­residential dormitory. 

Juan Manigualt: Another junior in Arts and Letters, Manigualt has been involved in student body president elections and MANASA. His drawback is his support of monthly meetings, according to the Observer Editorial Board. 
DISTRICT III (Flanner and Gracel 
Mike Hess: A junior resident of Flanner, Hesse is involved with the campus radio station WSND as a show moderator. 
Floyd Kezele: One of the more "experienced" candidates in the election, Kezele's two year record in student govennment has been described as "impeccable." Floyd has been the vice-chairman of the SLC for the past two years. He is a senior in A.&L. 
"Carolina" Nichols: A fresh­man in Arts and Letters, Nichols would like to see the SLC as the main governing force on campus. He feels he can generate the power for such a goal. DISTRICT IV <Stanford, Keenan, Zahm, Holy Cross, St. Joe, Moreau) 
Anthony Abowd: Abowd, a sophomore at Holy Cross, felt an understanding of the role of the SLC is needed for the expanded role of the students under the new constitution. An AL intent, he is a Special Projects Editor for the Observer. 
Rich Eschman: Eschman is a senior in Stanford Hall. Choosing not to be interviewed by the Ob­server, Rich was also unavailable on election eve in lie of his cam­paigning. 
Bill McLean: A stand-off with Abowd for the Observer's en­dorsement, McLean also exhibited a knowledge and concern for the future of the SLC and new con­stitution. He is a soph in Stanford, and currently an Ombudsman. 
Mark Knevel: Knevel is a junior at Keenan Hall and an AL intent. Knevel, too, was out campaigning and unavailable for comment. 
Dick Singsank: Singsank could not be reached for comment. DISTRICT V (Alumni, Dillon, Walsh, Badin, Sorin) Frank Devine: Devinne, moderator of the WSNDshow 
Contact Notre Dame, as well as a former Dillon Hall senator, has been a prominent figure in student government his last 3 years. 
Dennis Etienne: Beter known as H-man, Etienne was a main thrust in King Calhoun's bid for the Student Body Presidency. He is currently serving as Executive coordinator for student govern­ment, and is a junior in AL. 
Rick Hilton: Hilton is a past frosh class president and was involved in the ND-SMC freshman 
1 

class merger procedure. He is a / junior. 
1 

DISTRICT VI (Howard, i Morrissey, · Lyons, Fisher, 11 Pangborn) 
Fred Giuffride: Considered the other experienced and outstnading jcandidate in the election, Giuffride has a oong line of student govern-I ment accomplishments. He has . served on several student-faculty committees and the University


Academic Council. He is a senior, Senator Edward Kennedy <D­and has also served as a stay · Mass. 1 will speak on the Notre sen~tor. He is presently the Dame campus on October 6. Jim editorial page editor for the Ob-Novie, Student Union Academic 
server. Commissioner, revealed yesterday 
Joe Lipka: Lipka is a senior ·,that Kennedy will appear for a without a previous student . morning lecture at Stepan Center. government record. A heavy schedule would hamper l!is might 
hamper his availability. 
Jim Roe: A junior and Observer night editor and reporter, Roe remained unavailable on his specifics of the role of the SLC. 
Wednesday, September 20, 1972 ,·
2 

the observer 
warld briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

UNITED NATIONS, N.Y.-The General Assembly of the United Nations convened Tuesday for its 27th annual session, and hears its newly usually strong statement, say that the war in Vietnam should be stopped "once and for all." Normally, a General Assembly President in his inaugural address steers clear of controversy. 
LONDON-An Israeli diplomat was killed and another injured when a envelope sent through the mail expleded in the emb~ssy. RDr. Ami Shachori, 44-year-old counselor for Agricultural Mfairs, was hit in the chest and abdomen by the explosive charge. Theodor Kaddar, who recently arrived to replace Shachori, was slightly injured and hospitalized. Three more explosive devices, in envelopes understood to be addressed to Senior Embassy Of­ficials, were discovered and rendered harmless. 
WASHINGTON --The Senate approved a major environmental bill designed to meet a developing "land crisis" by authorizing the Federal Government for the first time to help states develop long-range plans for use of land. The vote was 60 to 18. The legislation represents an evolutionary departure from the traditional practice of private and local control over use of land. 
an campus taday 
12:00 --election, student life council voting in halls 
12:15 --seminar, "genetic control of immune response," 109 lobund laboratory 
7:00 
--meeting, physics club, 331 nieuwland science halll 

7:00 
--meeting' placement night, engineering auditorium 


8:00 --film, "something beautiful for god," carroll hall 
6:30 --meeting, sailing club, 204 engineering 


at nd-smc 


University press in crisis 
the idea at its suggestion. 'With 
By Ann Theresa Darin University budget. According to 
the consertium of the University of
Observer Staff Reporter Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, business 
Chicago and the Big 10 schools,
affairs vice-president, "It's the one 

they have now dropped everything 
Will the presses continue to roll figure in the financial statement 
except a combined distribution 
at the University of Notre Dame that really stands out." But, when 
center. They all complained about 
Press next year? Presently a viewed with other university 
the loss of their identities and the
substantial 1oss, $112,000 by one presses around the country, its loss 
rising costs." 
estimate; $17,000 by another, is is about average. Large state 
(Continued on page 12)
jamming the presses. Before Rev. schools can fund their publishing 
The Panamerican Club Announces Its First Football Season 

PARTY 
Friday Sept. 22 8:30p.m.St. Mary's C1ubhouse Everyone ts Invited Guys $3.00 GIRLS FREE 
FUN, MUSIC AND SHOW 










James T. Burtchaell, univeristy houses with public funds; Notre provost, commits further funds Dame, as a private school, must 
MICHAEL'S••• 

from his academic budget to fund rely on its endowment­
MARDI GRAS COMMITTEE 

EXPERTS AT

the press, he has asked the seven contribution-tuition revenue to members of the University Press sustain the Press. 

CONTEMPORARY

IS LOOKING FOR
editorial board to evaluate the Next year, according to in­

STYLING

program, before the autumn draws formed university sources, the to a close. Press will be limited to $50,000. 
The University of Notre Dame Can the Press survive with such a losss for 1971-72 is quite high drastically reduced budget? compared to other figures in the Many of the editorial board 





FUN PEOPLE 

members polled are hesitant to answer except for Mr. John Eh­News mann. acting press director. Eh­
TO BRING OFF THE SOCtAL 

mann believes the Press can keep within the limit. ''Our loss this 
EVENT OF THE YEAR

Announcement 
~~

year was only $17,000 and that's a 
long way from $50,000," he said.
Planning to operate a concession 
However, when depreciation and
stand on campus on home football 
If you are artistic,

inventory are figured into the 
STYLED FOR

game Saturdays to sell hot dogs, 
imaginative, friendly,

soft drinks, buttons, and the like as expenses and profits, accoridng to 
MORE CONTROL
like to work with people

a fund rainsing project? University financial advisors, the 
for charity 
AND EASIER

The office of Student Activities loss figure soars to almost a 
will coordinate this project. quarter-million dollars. 
MANAGEMENT 

Application forms and information Many of the financially-troubled 
BETWEEN

must be obtained from the Office of university presses have lately 
General Meeting 
HAIRCUTS ...

Student Actifvities, LaFortune merged into consertiums of three 
Grand Ballroom

Student Center. or four presses banding together to 
Complete line of services3rd floor; LaFortune
All dormitories and relieve expenses. However, Press 
for the particular male

organizations planning to operate 
Wednesday, Sept. 20

editorial board members are 
a stand must complete an ap­
9:00p.m.

reluctant to support such an ac­
Appointments if desired
plication form. Applications must 
tion.

be returned to Student Activities 
MICHAEL'S

"You may wind up by paying as 
More Information

Lffice by5p.m. Friday, Septmeber 
much as before or even more," 

HAIR STYLING
Call: Joe Oliva 1204

22 in order for your organization to 
claimed Rev. Paul Beichner. Ms. 

FOR MEN

have a concession stand for any 
John Duffy 233-4840

Emily Schessberger, recently­
football game this season. 
272-7222


retired Press director, squelched 
18381 Edison V2 mile east of campus·­
Student Union Social Commission 
MICHIGAN STATE FOOTBALL GAME 
BUS TRIP TICKETS ON SALE 
3:00 p.m. WED·SEPT 20 IN THE FIESTA LOUNGE OF LA FORTUNE 
Price is $18 

(in~udes bus, ticket, and all t~e sandwhiches and pop you want). Lim it of 1 per person (must have I.D.). 
Payment by check payable to Student Gov'·T Fund Only 
Wednesday, September 20, 197l the observer 
3 



Shriver 
by Steven V. Roberts 
<c> 1972 New York Times 
Pittsburgh, Pa., Sept. 19 -The motor launch cruised down the placid Monongahela River last night, as the neon lights on the surrounding hills reflected in the dark water. The boating party included many of the top democratic and labor leaders in the area, and after a roast beef dinner and plenty of wine, Sargent Shriver picked up a microphone and told them: 
"I don't care whether you love George McGovern, or whether you like me, that's almost beside the point. The question is, what are your going to for for yourselves?" 
In that kind of blunt language, the Democratic Vice-presidential nominee has been bringing this message to the big city, big state politicians: We're all in this boat together, so let's cooperate. 
On the basis of three days of campaigning in New Jersey and Pennsylvania, it seems that the McGovern-Shriver team is getting through, at least to the politicians. Shriver's punchy talk was in­terrupted a dozen times for ap­plause last night, but no line drew a better cheer than this one: 
""If Franklin Roosevelt were on this boat tonight, if Harry Truman were on this boat, if John F. Kennedy or Rob Kennedy were on this boat, if Lyndon Johnson or Hubert Humphrey were on this boat, you know what they would be 
Placement Bureau begins sessions 
The Placement Bureau will begin their series of Placement Nights tonight for all Seniors and 
Graduate  Students  in  Arts  and  
Letters  and  Busin ess  Ad­ 
ministration.  ·  

Tommorrow night, the Bureau will sponsor the same event for Seniors and Grads in Science and Engineering. On both evenings the events will be held in the Engineering Auditorium at 7:00. 
The Placement Nights will feature mock interviews, a question and answer period, and the opportunity for the students to pick up the necessary registration materials. 
Today, the same students will be receiving in the mail the placement manual. The manual, according to Richard W­illemin,Placement Bureau Director, will contain instructions for Seniors and Grads interested in using the bureau's facilities. Also covered in the manual will be the schedule of employer's interviews as they have been scheduled already. 


rallies 
saying-We have to unite to defeat this man Richard Nixon." 
Some important people are obviously not sold yet. In Las Vegas· yesterday, I. W. Abel, President of the United Steelworkers of America and the district's most important labor leader, was reiterating his position of neutrality in the Presidential Race. Mayor Peter Flaherty of Pittsburgh was conspricuously absent, and Mayor Frank Rizzo of Philadelphia is supporting President Nixon. 
Some McGovern people are still not happy about cooperating with the same politicians they have sworn to annihilate. The local leader who drew up last night's guest list omitted some of her old enemies, and only last minute repair work kept a lot of noses in joint. 
More seriously, the attitudes of the politicians and labor leaders are not necessarily shared by their followers. The reform movement in the Democratic Party, led by McGovern, has been rooted in the 


DO YOU NEED HELP? 
The Pan American Club starts its r Spanish Tutorial------­-------this WednesdaySept 20 in the lobby of Regina Han: St. Mary's from 7-8 p.m. 
THE NEW 
ALUMNI CLUB 
Open Wednesdays 
4:00 o p.m.· 2:00 a.m. 
Good People Good Fun Good Drink 


Penn. Democrats 
rising educational level and in­dependence of the Electorate, but this year that independence might work against the reformers. 
In addition, as Shriver tries to appeal to "traditional Democrats, the cracks in the old Roosevelt coalition show clearly. Yesterday morning, following a meeting with Philadelphia black leaders, a Shriver aide indicated that the candidate favored hiring minorities in roughly the same proportion as they appear in the electorate. 
But at a news conference an hokr later, Shriver denounced the concept of set "quotas" in the hiring of minorities, an idea bit­terly opposed by many labor unions and Jewish leaders. As the conference broke up, the candidate expressed the dilemna to a black newsman this way: 
"I want to help you, but I don't want to help you and hurt everyone else. I don't think that's fair."' 
As it has been developing on the campaign trail, Shriver's appeal to Urban Democrats has three main 
themes. The first is the invocation 
of party loyalty' the recitations of 
party heroes and ac­
complishments, the insistence that 
a McGovern-led party is open to 
all. 
The second theme is economics, 
the traditional democratic issue. 
Asked at a News conference 
yesterday to name the most im­
portant issue in the campaign, 
Shriver declared: "The economic 
issue is most important for most 
people --unemployment, welfare, 
the price of consumer goods." 
Again and again he invokes the 
democratic record --social 
security, unemployment com­
pensation, Medicare. The 
Republicans, he always notes, 
oppose these measures, and thus 
do not "care about the working 
man." 
The tird thrust is to make people 
realize one simple fact: The only 
alternative to George McGovern is 
Richard Nixon. As one labor 
leader said on the boat last night, 
"Richard Nixon finally brought us ~ together." 
THE NOTRE DAME EXPRESS 
leaves every Friday at 3: 55 A Greyhound Sc enicruiser goes non -stop from the circle to Chicago. Two returns on Sunday Call Tom Boyer, 234-8259 for reservations and information 

ATTENTION 
Knights of Colombus Members NEW KEY CARD SYSTEM IN USE To pick up new key card you must present a paid up traveling card to GK or DGK 


Knights and Ladies of Columbus Enjoy a Delicious 

STEAK DINNER 
This Friday Night At The K of C You must sign up by Thursday night in order to insure you get your steak. 
MEMBERS $1.50 NON-MEMBERS $2.50 
DEBBIE BECK for 
FRESHMAN ASSEMBLY 
REPRESENTATIVE 
PLATFORM: 
My platform is I')OI going to be a 
g i m m i c k y , g·i v e . t h e . k i d s . 
everything-they-want, tear-down­
the-school kind of thing. 1 feel 
what we need is honesty and open 
communications between the 
freshmen and the upperclassmen 
and among the freshmen them­
selves. My job will be to offer to 
members of my class the op­
portunity to make their ideas 
heard. Many freshmen feel that 
they have no effective way to voice 
their opinions and comments. Well 
now, we have the means to do 
something about this---by selecting 
two representatives to sit on the: 
Assembly and be a sounding board' 
for their fellow classmates. By 
running for this council, 1 am in­
dicating my willingness to work 
for my class. 
Comments and complaints abound among the freshmen. I've found that out in my first two weeks here. By selecting two people who are willing to give the time and effort this assembly requires, we can start off on the right track. I feel I can do the job here and my first hope will be that this election can unify our class. Right now, to many of us, the girls here are just a sea of nameless faces. Through The Assembly, 1 hope to be able to bring our fresh. men class closer together--and by this I don't just mean getting to know the girls on your floor or in your classes--! mean getting to know everyone in all the dorms. This is my number one goal. 1 hope that you, the students in my 
class will place enough trust in me to elect me to the Student Assembly. My door is always open and I'm always eager to hear what anyone has to say--and this holds true even if I'm not elected. If you have any questions, problems, or comments, just call me at 4280 or come to room 203 in Holy Cross. Thank you in advance tor your 
support. 
JUDY MARDOIAN for 
FRESHMAN ASSEMBLY REPRESENTATIVE PLATFORM:. 
My platform is posted here in the hope that you will only cast your 

' vote tor me in the event that you believe the following can benefit our school. 
I believe student government should try to accomplish the following: 
Work with the college in at­tempting to establish Saint Mary's as a unique institution independent from Notre Dame but always willing to work in attempting to establish its strengths and weaknesses and this might best be accomplished by embarking on a year of intense self study. Student government can and should take an active role in this. 
SMC student government should also make itself more responsible to the immediate needs of its constituency and should work for now as well as for the future. We should be able to provide more for student needs by initiating more interaction between halls ori an academic as well as social·lev'el. SMC student government should avail itself to those students in need of tutorial help and attempt to establish a course of evaluation booklet similar to that currently being done at Notre Dame, but 

,more complete in its range and scope. 
We should also attempt to seek new sources of social outlet for ourselves and the Notre Dame com~unity were applicable to relieve the "party syndrome"; the scipe of this should be as diver­sified and imaginative as we can make it. Finally student govern­ment should take and maintain a strong stand on the position Qf parietals. 
I feel that individual halls should be able to establish parietal hours as they deem necessary. 
As your freshman represen­tative to the Student Assembly 1 will try my best to be conscientious in my duties, open to any ideas you might have, and offer to devote sufficient time and interest on the Assembly. I would appreciate your vote, 
Sincerely, 
Judy Mardoian 
\f there1are any further questions pleast> ·~q~ t'ee to contact me at 4998 





THE OBSERVER 
AN  INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER  
John Abowd  -­ 
News: 283-171 s  Editor-in-chief  Business Manager  
EditoriaI: 283-8661  
Business: 283-7471  Don Ruane Executive Editor  Joe Butler Advertising Manager  

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Wednesday, September 20, 1972 
The HPC's Task 

A significant part of last night's Hall Pr.esident's Council meeting was dedicated to a discussion of coresidential housing at Notre Dame. HPC Chairman Butch Ward initiated the discussion and despite his optimism, the Council reacted skeptically. 
There was no opposition to coresidential housing voiced at the meeting, but nonetheless, the overriding attitude was one of defeat. 
Jim Ferguson, President of Howard Hall, summarized the feeling that was prevalent. "No matter how many SLC's you have and how much you put into Student Government, the fate of the University will still be in the hands of the trustees and the administration." 
Reason for Ferguson's skepticism is apparent. Last year the administration and trustees ignored the fact that 18 of the 20 rectors on campus supported coresidential housing facilities. They also ignored a proposition submitted by Alumni Hall urging that Alumni be transformed into a "salt and pepper" dormitory. They further ignored a Student Government report on the choice of female dorms. 
Itappears that skepticism is the proper· attitude. 
Time For Initiative 

But this is not the time for skepticism, rather it is the time for positive action. In IIIIIIIII II II II1111111111111111111 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111IllI 

Night Editor: Jack Frischkorn 

Ass't Night Editor: Albert D'Antonio 
Layout: Kathy Schwille, Joe 
Day Editor: Mark Luppino 

Typists: Diane Chermside, Dave Rust, Mary 
Romer, Bullet 
Night Controller: John Flannigan 
daanesbury 
recent times, the HPC has begun to drag its feet. Instead of initiating action, the HPC has always reacted to the actions of others. If ever there was a 'time and an issue for the HPC to take the initiative on, this is it. 
The Council is meant to serve the wishes, desires, and needs of the halls on campus. Thus, the coresidential housing issue is one on which the HPC should initiate action instead of stalling until others move first. 
Ward feels that the worst thing that can happen would be if the University said no to the coed hall proposals. But the fact remains that if the University says no, they will also be forced in a public forum to give a reason and that alone will be a step forward. 
At this time, the University doesn't seem prepared to initiate coresidential housing. But it must also be remembered that five years ago, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh published an article citing the reasons why coeducation would not be good for Notre Dame. 
Times can change as can opinions. And the initiative must begin now if this University will ever see coresidential housing in the foreseeable future. 
HPC's Responsibility 
Therefore, the responsibility seems to lie on the HPC. They have the greatest contact with the halls of any governing organization on campus. If they must serve as an. advisory board to a higher organization (i.e. SLC or the Board of Trustees) then let that be the case, for who could advise them better in this instance than the HPC. 
The HPC cannot let this issue die. It should unite to resubmit the Alumni proposal. It should develop a number of additional proposals to be offered as alternatives. And it should submit these proposals directly to the Student Affairs Subcommittee of the Board of Trustees. 
This would handing the trustees a hot potato that they could not ignore. They would be dealing with a powerful and progressive statement from the student body indicating their ideals. It would not be the type of proposal that the trustees could quietly relegate to a committee. 
So, the initiative lies with the HPC. Itis their turn to lead and to be out front. Action must be forecoming from them. The responsibility is theirs. 
Jerry Lutkus 


by IJarry trudeau 
~-----------=~~ 


~------------------~ 
FarWhat lt!s Warth 


Clearing the Air 
dan ruane 
A letter written by Student Body President Bob Kersten appeared Monday accusing a staff member of a "conscious attempt to besmirch my flawless character" in an SLC story, and challenging the responsibility and credibility of the Observer in general. 
Obviously the staff member is myself, and I want to publicly reply to SBP Kersten's letter, and apologize for my injustice. 
There is no need to repeat the quote in question, as it was quite apparent in the SL~ story Friday. SBP Kersten is quite correct in his charge of breach of promise, but not libel. 
After he made the comment he quickly added "Don't print that." I replied in such a way as to indicate that it would not be used, which was just the same as promising. 
It was a gross mistake on my part. I have often criticized other members of the media for allowing other concerns, be they in the interest of one's self or the public, to be given priority over the ethics of good journalism. Just last week I berated ABC and CBS for their stingy roles concerning the use of satellite time during the terrorism at the Olympics. 
It also violated advice I frequently give to others around the office, that is, never promise anyone anything in this business, because there is no guarantee you will be able to fulfill a promise in spite of good intentions, or because you might allow other considerations to enter the situation and persuade you to foolishly do something otherwise. 
The use of the quote, however, was not intended as a malicious at­tempt to make SBP Kersten look crude, callous and bold to other SLC members, the faculty, trustees, administration, or any other group or person. 
My reasons were as follows: 1. After considering its use, I concluded that the quote was an accurate and forceful expression of SBP Ker­sten's opinion of the SLC as it appears to him. 2. It is my impression that this is how many students believe the Kersten administration feels about the SLC and many other things. 3. The story was an Ob­sl.'rver Insight, which allows for some speculation, interpretation, and editorializing as opposed to a straight news story. 4. SBP Kersten should be more aware of his office, and thus be more careful in what he says while speaking from that office. I feel that he treats his ac­cepted responsibility too lightly, and that the use of this quote might bring the seriousness of the student body presidency to bear a little stronger in his mind. Had I not made the promise, I probably would have used the quote for the same reasons, adding "Don't print that." 
In spite of these reasons, I did make the promise and should not have violated it. I apologize and retract the statement. 
As for SBP Kersten's other comments in his letter, I would like to set the record straight. As Executive Editor I have a great deal of freedom to write responsibly outside the restrictions of a straight news story. I failed in that responsibility when I used the quote. If you consider this to be representative of the entire staff, so be it; but I prefer to consider it a personal mistake, and not a reflection on the others since they were not aware of the situation. 
As for the credibility of the Observer, it did not reach any low point during the campus elections last spring. I believe that this is an un­derstandable, but over-emotional reaction of SBP Kersten to get his point across. The Observer's credibility has risen substantially during the last year and a half, and I hope my mistake has not set it back to any degree. 
I hope SBP Kersten will consider this an adequate explanation and response, and that he will be willing to resume his previous relationship with the Observer, with the understanding that it was not a deliberate or calculated attempt by the Observer to libel him or his administration. 

Wednesday, September 20, 1972 the observer 
5 




Viewpoint 
Fr. James T. Burtchaell 
In Loco Parentis 
or Life With(out) Father 
The following is the first part of an article by University Provost Fr. James T. Burt­cahell which originally appeared in the August edition of Notre Dame Magazine. 
Since the article is of general interest to students Fr. Burtchaell has given The Observer permission to reprint it. No passages have been deleted or edited. The second part will appear tomorrow. ed. 
Time was when universities and colleges proposed to exercise parental authority over their students. That was a time, be it said, when everything about parenth(l(){} itself seemed somehow less ominous: when "family planning" meant planning to have one; when childbirth could be contemplated without the aid of Spock; and when youngsters could generally count on growing up with a single set of parents. But today surrogate parenthood, like its natural model, has fallen upon hard times. 
Few today acquiesce in the notion of a university's standing in loco parentis, "in the parents' stead." The last decade has seen this once traditional legal doctrine virtually extinguished by the federal and state courts. The results have gone in both directions. In some cases, students have successfully resisted peremptory dismissal; the courts held that university authorities were obliged to state their rules more clearly and administer them with due process. In other cases, students have failed to win damages claimed for negligence since the colleges were no longer expected . to exercise such a careful vigilance over them. Hitherto, nearly all of these cases have dealt with public in­stitutions, and the courts have, with rising consistency, been holding that the student­school relationship should be that of a citizeri to any state agency, just as professors in state schools are increasingly likened to civil service employees. Private schools will not be indefinitely immune to this growing legal tradition and to the philosophy behind it, surely alien to that older view of the campus as a domestic household. 
Many university officials seem pleased to 

shake the onus of supervision that was 
theirs in loco parentis. The issue of room 
visitation between the sexes provides a 
contemporary illustration. When several 
Oxford colleges announced this year that 
they would admit their first female un­
dergraduates next fall, Hertford College 
explained that coeds would lodge in no 
special wing of college buildings. Asked if 
that would not lead to cohabitation, the 
master of Hertford stated emphatically that 
it was none of his concern. The former 
president of Parsons College has recently 
founded another proprietary school in the 
East with open dorm visitation. Asked the 
same question, he snorted that he was 
running a college, not a church. 
The most vociferous dismantlers of the in 

loco parentis policy, of course, have been 
the students themselves. Entering into the 
university often relieves strained relations 
at home between parental authority and the 
striving for independence by the child. He 
does not leave home in pursuit of new 
authoritarian adults, but to breath new 
adult freedom for himself. Curriculum 
requirements, disciplinary rules, university 
requirements, disciplinary rules, university 
decision-making bodies without student 
involvement--all can seem disconcerting to 
a young man or woman whose driving 
personal need at the time is to assert his or 
her own arrival at adult freedom. 
Well, despite its unpopularity and un­timeliness, the notion of senior members of the university standing in loco parentis to their undergraduate students in one that I should like to sustain. 
While standing for the formula, I suppose I shape its meaning somewhat differently than its despisers. It need not imply, for example, that the student is a juvenile, while his teacher is adult. Admittedly, when one says "parents and children" the imagination tends to picture a couple in their twenties or thirties, with the customary two or three children, probably at elementary school age or younger. But surely parenthood is a lifelong identity, and the parent-child relationship remains asymmetrical throughout all the long seasons of its maturation. This same young couple will still be parents--and, please God, actively parents--when they are in 
their eighties and their children are gran­
dparents. Indeed, parenthood does not 
lapse when one's offspring move onto their 
own. It really comes into its own only when 
one's children are adults. 
Nor need that parent-child relation always be colored by authority. One of the frustrations of being mother and father is that so much of the early experience of families demands firm parental control. When comes the time for tearing loose, for taking wing, the season for the children to gather -their own privacy and autonomy about themselves--in short, when comes the end of command and control--so many fathers and mothers feel their parenthood lifted from them and are at a loss to negotiate new ways of dealing with sons and daughters. Yet parenthood should have a fuller abundance of gifts to share than that: much of what parents can bestow is only available anyway in those years when their children are no longer dependent upon them. It is a mutual devastation if at the very age when the parent has the richest wisdom and perpective to share with his child, both have likely shut each other off in the belief that the family's interchange is at an end now that they have quit the same roof. 
A parent, then, at whatever age or 
maturity, no matter what his degree of 
control, authority, or involvement, retains a 
total concern for every feature of his child's 
life. 
And why should a university educator not 
stand in the same situation of total concern: 
in loco parentis? We have the dubious 
privilege of entering the scene at exactly 
that awkward and restless period of break­
way (a matter of years rather than the crisi 
of a moment), when young men and women 
of 18-22 years' age are renegotiating their 
relations with their parents. They are no 
longer at their command, nor have they yet 
cast off lines completely. Itis an ambiguous 
time, and strained, and quarrelsome, and 
critically influential. 
Bear in mind that I speak specifically of 
our stand at Notre Dame. At virtually all 
universities in Europe and Latin America, 
at most state schools in North America, and 
now in many of our private colleges, too, the 
senior scholars decline and often repudiate 
all active concern and certainly all 
responsibility for the personal growth and 
integration of the students. The interchange 
is specifically academic. Students may be 
fortunate enough to find one or another 
professor of administrator with a shrewd 
eye and a giving heart for them, but will 
more often encounter resentment if they 
impinge of faculty time or seek their at­. tention beyond what is statutorily required. At Notre Dame it is possible to encounter the same disappointment, but we publicly 

Fr. James Burtchaell discusses the role of administators and faculty at a university which adopts a modified goal of in loco Parentis. 
profess and hold ourselves accountable for a personal regard for our students. I like to think that we live up to this commitment better even than many of those few universities that accept the same charge, and that we do it in some special and precious ways that make our tradition distinctive and deeply memorable. 
To assume to stand in loco parentis is to share the chancy fortune of any father or mother of an intelligent young man or woman. Just as at home, in a residential college there is the recurring struggle to determine who is really master of the house, 
It is no good simply pounding the table, reminding the students that they are on our turf,and showing them the door if they fail to abide by our rules. On the other hand, little challenge and slight growth will ensue if older and younger scholars simply turn their backs on one another. Like parents, academics care aboutmore!in their students than they can control and must often forego command in favor of persuasion and debate. 
Often, but not always. There is an asym­metrical exchange: teachers always have new insights afforded them by their junior colleagues; yet the whole academic en­terprise would not exist save by the common belief that teachers see, hear, and know more and perceive more deeply than their students. 
Like a parent, a stringently effective teacher will be appreciateed only in retrospect . . . and will often have to do without the satisfaction of hearing much by way of thanks. Like a prent, a teacher in­vests his mind and heart in the growth of the students he loves, and can only hope that the seed he plants is sound, the soil sweet enough for future fruit. One always teachers with one's heart in his mouth, and doesn't always succeed. But then again he often does. 
We are terribly vulnerable and we do our 
work for love and not for gain--none quite so 
vulnerable, I imagine, as those who lay 
aside natural parenthood to give their whole 
soul and strength to this other begetting and 
have such single-minded desire that these, 
their sons and daughters, succeed. 
Our vices and virtues are the common 
domestic varietals. Sometimes we frown 
top often when encouragement is needed. 
We can be too protective or not demanding 
enough, or lose our tempers, and (worse) 
our wits, and we can give in to the strain and 
fatigue and simply not give a damn. But 
there are times when the work goes well, 
and we sense somehow just when to push, 
when to wink, when to commend, when to 
laugh, when to ridicule, when to listen, when 
to explode. 

Particularly in these years when student 
rights, and dignity, and Jperogatives; have 
been struggled for and enlarged, one of the 
slur words for the over-authoritarian 
teacher or adminstrator is "paternalistic." 
I hope the word can be purged of this un­
pleasant meaning, for so many of us in the 
profession do feel that fatherhood is is our 
blood, and while acknowledging the great 
risk it presents, don't really want to be 
ahsamed of it. 

We tend to remain in correspondence with 
many alumni--and this mail continually 
impresses me with the similarity of fortune 
between teacher and parent. One young 
man who had lived in our hall <Dillon) wrote 
recently after his first year in grad school. 
As you predicted, there is no place like 
-
Notre Dame. The University of ---------is such a sterile, lifeless institution--more of a parking lot than a univeristy. The transition from a private, residential university and relatively small enrollment to a public commuter university with an enrollment of about 28.000, was an experience even at the ' ripe old age of twnety-two. More and More I appreciate the commitment to a university community that Notre Dame has made. I 
sound like an "alum" already! 
Hopefully every set of parents receives a letter something like this after their own son or daughter has moved out of the home into other circumstances. 
(Reprinted with the permission of Notre Dame Magazine.) 
------------~~ 

Wednesday, September 20, 1972
the observer
6 

Watergate affair sparks party feud 
justly exposed him and otherby Patrick Collins finance committeemen to severe 
criticism over the bugging in­(c) 1972 Washington Star-News cident, and Stans' recent notoriety 
Washington, Sept. 19-----The is expected to hamper his efforts to Watergate Affair has touched off a raise money for the Nixon fund behind-the-scenes struggle drive. between the most powerful The former commerce secretary committees in President Nixon's has been named in both a re~lection campaign. congressional staff investigation 
Key antagonists in the feud are and a general accounting office Maurice Stans, chairman of the report tracing $111,000 in Nixon Finance Committee to Re~lect campaign deductions to one of the the President, and Jeb Stuart seven men charged in the June 17 Magruder, Deputy Director of the break-in at Democratic National Committee for the Re~lection of Committee headquarters. the President. Through committee spokesmen, 
Stans feels the silence imposed Stans has denied any part in the on him by Magruder and other bugging scheme, but he repeatedly Nixon campaign bosses has un-has declined to discuss his 
Counciling center sees role asadvisor and trainer 
by James i\bowd 
Since 1!!67 the third floor east wing of the Administration Building '· has been the location of the Notre Dame counseling center. 
Dr. Sheridan McCabe, head of the counseling center staff, sees two, functions for the center: advice and training. 
Advice, maintains Dr. McCabe, is the traditional responsibility of the center. "We tell students to make the most out of their lives at Notre Dame," Dr. McCabe says. "This means a much broader program than just helping individuals in need·" 
Dr. McCabe explains that counseling has three distinct II purposes. First, to remedy a bad situation such as grades or majors. 
Secondly its purpose is to prevent situations in which students are faced with major problems. 
Thirdly, counseling produces programs which stimulate student interest. 
"In spite of these programs, which are as broad in concept, in concept, student counseling still centers mostly around remedial care," states Dr. McCabe. 
Training 
Dr. McCabe considers training
the second important function of the center. We will train in­dividuals, groups, faculty and staff in whatever capacity necessary," 
he says.
Dr. McCabe documents this by citing a recent training program in Howard Hall. Last year the· counseling center ran a leadership training program for section leaders. "It was successful and many hc-11 " are requesting similar training ::n.minars." 
On coeduation, Dr. McCabe ex­plains that the center has been working with SMC for four years in anticipation of a merger. 
"We have been ready for women at ND. The current counseling staff includes two women one of says. 

Also along these lines, Dr. McCabe explains that Mrs. Susan Roberts, a special assistant to the Provost, has worked extensively with the counseling center. Preliminary discussions have been held with the hall governments of both Badin and Walsh, and this consultation and training will 
continue in Walsh. 
Minority Service 

Two new counselors have been added to this program. They are: Ann Williams, a law student with a 
Arrington, also a law student. 

PITTSBURGH® PAlNJS Notre Dame
d
Stu ent Discounts 
-30% off latex Paint 
-15% off unpainted fu rn itu re 
333 S. Michigan 289-2439 
financing operation, on the advice of campaign officials. At one point Stans prepared a complete statement but campaign leaders talked him out of releasing it. 
The feeling at the finance committee is that Magruder or his public relations men would have spoken out in defense of Stans and openly discussed the use of the $114,000. But Magruder has not spoken out or made himself available to the press. 
The dispute between Stans and Magruder has seeped down the rank and file of the Finance Committee. Some of these aides are harshly critical of top officials of the Nixon Re~lection Com­mittee, and have let their views seep out publicly. 

Stans has talked about his problems privately with former Attorney General John N. Mit­chell, who resigned in July as Nixon's campaign manager, and, a few weeks ago, Stans even got a cheerful call of encouragement from the White House. 
But now Stans apparently has decided to make his own defense, circumventing the campaign committee public relations staff, which reports to Magruder. 
This is apparent from the fact that a former White House counsel, Clark Mollenhoff, reported in the Des Moines Register yesterday that Stans had conferred with Nixon counsel John Dean about a $25,000 campaign contribution which was cashed by one of the bugging suspects. 
According to Mollenhoff's report, Dean assured Stans that even though the $25,000 con­tribution came to Stans after April 7, when the new Federal Campaign Disclosure Act went into effect, the donation still did not have to be reported. 
The White House counsel based his decision on a provision of the law which says that whenever an agreement to deliver funds is made, it shall be considered a contribution. 
In the revised account of the $25,000, the contributor, Dwayne Andreas, a Minneapolis businessman and former sup­porter of Democrat Hubert H. ­Humphrey; Kenneth Dahlberg, midwest fund raiser for Nixon and the man who collected the money; and Stans all agree that Andreas promised the contribution last January. They said he reaffirmed his promise in February but did not get around to handing over the cash to Dahlberg until April 9. 
Before Dean gave legal counsel to Stans, he was commissioned by the president to conduct a "thorough" investigation of the Watergate incident. 


Art Auction 

featuring original works of graphic art-etchings, lithographs,-by leading 
20th  century  artists:  
Picasso  Dali  
Miro,  Calder  

Chagall Friedlaender Searle Rouault Vasarely and others. 
THIS SAT., SEPT. 23rd! RAMADA INN 52890 U.S. 31N 

AUCTION: 8:30P.M. EXHIBITION: 7:oo-8:30P.M. All New Show -Free Ad­mission 
Free Book-Prints & Print­making Given Free to Each Buyer 
Presented by Meridian Gallery of Indianapolis 



*Student Billing Card 
The time is NOW! 

There is no standing in line! There is no extra charge! It can save you money! 
With a Student Billing Card, a dorm resident may make long dis­tance telephone calls with the privacy of the dorm room phone and get an individual bill once a month. 
And you can take advantage of Direct Distance Dialing . . . the eco­nomical way to call long distance, within Indiana or out of state. 
We'll mail you a Student Billing Card, if you'll call 234-5088. Or you can drop in at our Business Office at 307 South Main. Open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
@Indiana Bell 
which is an R.A. in Badin." he~----.,----------' 
FREE DRAWING SUN.. SEPT. 24th 
No pun:hase Necesspry llleecf Not Be Present To Win 
-
Register Now For • • • Deluxe 5Gal. Equipment Kit Brother Vineheart 5Gal. Kit Brlther Vineheart 2Gal. Kit The Fbnllesf Hobby You Ever ~rank 
VISIT 

WINE·ART, _ 
~..West .McKin~'(U.S£.120) 
....~lana ACIOSS ,.OM fo'tifN ~y G~lt$ ' 259~44' ' ' 
..cNI5.:· Mon.-Fri. 12·" · -Svn 1 

-
Wednesday, September 20, 1972 the observer 
7 


So. Cai. tops

Ara set to name 
national polls 
Southern California's 51-6



qb vs. N'western 
trouncing of Oregon State 
Saturday night convinced voters in 

Coach Ara Parseghian will 
both wire service polls that the provide the answer this afternoon Trojans deserved to be ranked to an oft-heard question of Notre I number one in the nation. Dame football fans -"Who's going Now 2-0, S.C. easily out­
to start at quarterback'?" distanced runner-up Oklahoma in 
Early in the fall, the Irish head the Associated Press poll but coach had said,' ' I 'd like to name narrowly edged the Sooners in the a number one quarterback by the United Press International Northwestern game, but, if no one rankings. Oklahoma, which clearly emerges as the best, we drubbed Utah State, 49-o , Sat­
might start the season by using urday, was first on the U.P.I. poll two quarterbacks." last week. 
Junior Cliff Brown, who started The Trojans received 28 first the last six games of the '71 season, place ballots from A.P. voters and and Tom Clements, a promising outpointed Oklahoma, 920-840. 
sophomore, have been "head and Southern Cal had just a four point shoulders above the rest of the 
edge in the U.P.I. poll, however , • candidates", according to Par­picking up 14 first place votes and. seghian. 318points to Oklahoma's 13 number. 
The pair have battled for the one votes and 314 points. number one job throughout spring Notre Dame, which opens its practice and fall drills and it ap­
season Saturday against Nor­pears that Parseghian has finally •
thwestern in Evanston, Illinois,was decided who's going to be the ranked 13th by both the A.P. and starter, at least for the first game 
U.P.I. and no selector cast a first of the season. 
place vote for the Irish. Sources close to the scene 
AP Ratjngs

speculate that Clements will get 
I. Southern California (28). . 2·0 920

the starting nod against the 
2. Oklahoma (II)... . .1·0 840

Wildcats, especially in view of the 3. Colorado (7) ..2-0 769 4. Ohio Stall' (2) . .1·0 622
fact that Brown has been slowed 
5. Tennt>ssel' (2) : ...2·0 615

somewhat the past couple of days 
6. UCLA . . .2-0 490 by an injured Achilles tendon. i. Alabama .1·0 463 
8. Louisiana State. . . .1-0 392Clements has an impressive set 9 :'1/Pbraska . . . . .1·1 377
Cliff Brown--still a starter? 10. ,\rizona State. .2·0 190of credentials that indicate he's 
II. Penn State .6-1 180

more than capable of handling the 
12. llichigan . . . .1-0 16"l first string QB chores. He 13. :'1/otre Dame. .0·0 162
Swimmers to 
14. Texas . . . . . .0·0 109·

starred in the Blue-Gold game last 
15. Washington . .2-0 861

spring, leading the number one 16 Georgia. . ... 1·0 59 offense to six touchdowns in six 17. Florida State. . .. 2·0 58
aid retarded 
18. Michtgan State .1·0 54

possessions. This fall, he has been 
19. Stanford . . .1·0 50running well and passing, in Notre Are you interested in working :!0 llississippi . . 1-0 38 
Dame's weekly game-type with children less fortunate than 
UPI Ratings

scrimmages, at a slightly better the average youngster'? 
L Southern Cal (14i (2·0) .31R

than 60 per cent clip. Would you like to help a retarded 2. Oklahoma (13) (l-0). .314 With Brown at less than full 
child with his swimming activity? 3. Colorado (4) (2·0) . 251 
4. Tennt•sscc (2·0). 204

Do you have a Senior Lifesaving 
efficiency, Clements ran the 5. Ohio Statt• (~) (1-0) . 202 number one offense by himself in Certificate'? 6 . .\labama (I) (1·0) .155 
7. UCL.\ (I) (2·0) .. 109

Tuesday's practice session while Could you spare one hour each 
R. "'ebraska (I-I) . . .IU7Brown worked with the second week'? 9. Louisiana State (1·0) 72 
unit. If the answer is yes to all these, 
10. Arizona Stale (1·0) 53 
II. Michigan (1-0) . . . 40

then contact Pennis J. Stark, 
12. Michigan State (1-0). 28 coach of swimming, Box 150, Notre 13. (tie) Notre Dame (0-0) . 16 
(tie) Penn State (0-1).. . ... 16

JV netmen 

Dame; or come by Room 217, 
15. Texas (0-0) . . . . . . . . . 13

Rockne Building; or call 6222. If 16. florida State (2·0) ............ 12 he's not in, then please leave your 17. Washington (2-0) II 
18. Iowa State (1-0) . . 7

win, 7-2 name, address, and telephone 
19. GPorgia (1·0) . . 4 number. 20. l\rkansas (6-1).. 3 Winning five of six singles matches, Notre Dame's junior 
varsity tennis team breezed to a 7-2 victory over Manchester Tuesday 
says

on the Irish courts. it comes to pianos. we wilt
Chris Amato, Bill Sturm, Pat 
do just about anything. 

Murphy and David Wheaton won their singles matches in straight 
If we can·t"ao it. we willtryto find sets and Barry Andrews downed 
someone who does. 

his Manchester opponent in three sets to lead the Irish to victory. 
me now for an appointment 674-9335

Doubles wins by the teams of Amato-Andrews and Mark Peterson and Wheaton accounted for Notre Dame's final two points. 

"Piano Pete'' 

Bob Johnson and Bill Sierks recorded exhibition singles wins 
Osceola, Indiana for the junior netters while Chip Turner and Joe Zmolek posted a 
win in an exhibition doubles 
Quality Tuning and Repairing match. 

i:~

..i.=I=~.=:-.~*'""''"S~~~;thl~k;'~~~u==g 
k I 
•.l=,j==j now I 
. :::: 
.... 
:::: 
:::: 
·:·:
.... 
::::
..•.
....
..•. 
1iil 
····· 
:~:~ 


:·:·: 

I 
Tes;·~~~~ R;~·~;;:dge I 
~\~\ every Thursday ~~l~Iwith the sports quiz and I ~f football picks contest in 1~1~ 
IIrish Sports Weeki yJ
I JUST lSC PER ISSUE! I !iii or by Subscription: ~lll ii I semester -$1.50 on camp~s/ ~~j! [~~: $3.00 by· mail ~ll~ ~i!j 1 year -$2.75 on campus/ ~~~~ 
:;;;j $6.00 by mail ~~~~ 
~lll Delivered to your door l~l~ 
iii! Send To: ~~~ lill The Observer .Notre Dame, Ind. llll ~l~~ Name ~ 
l1l1 

~~l Address ~~~ 
~ ~ 
« ~ 
~' ~ 
-·;::: I!~ 
~~~ Zip Code . ~ 
:;a~-=····~.~ .....-..• ...·.···········~~··.-~:·...;~·!•!«.o\.YN~.:.:-x-!&:•:•»:•!•!•;.;.;•:•!•!•!•!•::;•:•;;;!3§.S..;;!;;,...·········· .. .........
~·.•;,.•.w._._ ~ ~ 

-
Wednesday, Sep'ember 20, 1972
the observer
8 
(Continued from page 2) 
Separate incorporation of the University Press from the University is another possible solution. By this action, the Press would lose its tax-exempt, non­income 1 producing status. 
"I can see an inherent danger in this," mused William T. Liu, editorial press board member. "The Press director would humanly be steered to take profit as a motive rather than schlarship. 
This isn't the real objective of a university press." 
In its stead, Liu suggests a separate endowment. "I think this might be hard for the University to take," he said, " but this would free the hands of the press director. He could get good manuscripts and not have to worry about the cost. Without a separate

• endowment. the press director has 
Dr. Henry 
to speak at 
O'Laughlin 
On Thursday, September 21, at 
4:30 p.m., Dr. Edward Henry, President, will speak at a student-faculty convocation to be held in O'Laughlin Auditorium. Immediately following the con­vocation there will be a Student­Faculty Picnic on the east lawn of the Dining Hall. Meal tickets will be distributed at the convocation for the picnic. The regular dinner hours have been altered for this meal. 
It is at the discretion of the faculty who hold calsses at 4:30 on 'Thursday to shorten the class period to facilitate your attendence at the convocation. If you have a class that conflicts with the con­vocation-picnic contact Mary Ginn Ptacin -4620 or Nancy P­arker -4632 so meal ticket arrangements can be made. 

Your store in style, price and term 
Pay ¥3 in January ¥3 in F ehruary Y3 in March 
You pay no interest or carrying charge on this exclusive Campus Shop way to buy. 
Incorporationonly hope for press 
Schessberger, no one could explain 
to actat the mercy of the financial finally meet to discuss the Burt­
how board members were ap­
officer of the university." chaell letter. At present, there is 
pointed or what criteria was used.
Julian Samora, youngest no meeting of the Press editorial 
With some members, they were
member of the Press editorial board schedule. 
appointed because they published 
board, believes separate in-When Ms. Schessberger retired, 
with the press quite regularly.
corporation may be the answer. "I John Ehmann was appointed as 
Others had established the Press.
should see no good reason why it · ·acting press director. However, 
wouldn't work. I wouldn't par­ticularly like that option, but if it would save the Press ... why not?" 
The Press would find it dif­ficult to merge with the other publishing facility on campus, the Ave Maria Press. Ave is primarily a magazine publishing house and is not equipped to print books. 
Publishing at a loss is only one of the problems that Press members will have to cope with when they 
prohibit most alumni for par­
ESCAPE 

ticipating in the decisions. But, 
TO 
Pop Farley's House 
GRAND OPENING-Wednesday Sept 19 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
8: :J) -11:30 p.m. FREE Coffee, Tea, Soda, People, Live Music 

136 .W. Washington Ph. 233-4943 
most replied that it hadn't been thought of. 
Presently the University financiers are preparing a three­year projected budget. If the University Press's loss escalates as Ehmann anticipates that it will (to $30,000), the Press may very well be the victim of the crunch in private higher education. 
But, Ms. Schessberger recalled, the University of Chicago Press was dormant for 10 years in 1870. Then, it discovered Dewey and new life. 
There may be an idea lurking around O'O'Shaughnessy or Galvin Life which when matured may gross more for the Press than the whole University budget. Until then, the Press will wait until "the end of autumn draws to a close" for its verdict. 
LOST 

Brown wallet lost around Stanford Hall Sunday. Reward, Jim 8725. 
Lost: qold Wittnauer watch 
Thursday or Friday Sept. 15 South quad. John 1960 Reward. 
NOTICES 

Now accepting: Poems, photos, fiction, drama and essays for fall 
issue  of  Juggler;  NO's  only  
10urnal of the student arts.  Send  
material to P.O.  Box 583.  

NEW Westinghouse Compact Refrigerators. 4.4 cubic ft. capacity, full warranty, im­111<'diate delivery, costs less than leasing. Call now. Wynne's Refrigeration Co. 234-0578. 
Dependable mother of two will babysit in home. Riverside Manor, North of town 272-1780. 
Morrissey Loan Fund Open. 
Borrow  up  to  $150.  11:15-12:15  
Monday thru Friday.  LaFortune  
Basement.  

Europe and back for $190! How can you ilfford to stay home? Call Clark, 283 8810. 
FOR SALE 

Porsche 66-912 5-spd, excellent 
abarth,  cibie,  pirellis.  rebuilt  
engine  $2850-best offer.  233-1039  
or  234 1563.  

1970 Opel GT, new engine, new Michel ins, $2600. Tom 6325. 
Impoverished student must sel 500golf balls. Any quantity. 8781 
Like new electric typewriter $60. Stereo with Garrard turntablt $30. Both $85. Call 233-8855. 
1959 Chevy pannel truck. Rebuilt engine, restored body, air, car­peted, birch pannel ing inside, other extras. 272-7661. 
For Sale: '64 Lincoln Continental. 
Deluxe Special, air. 47,000 miles. Sweet condition. $750. Mike 233· 5336. 
For Sale: Couches $10-30. Chairs $3-7.50. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. Free delivery to campus. Open 
Sunday. 
2 beds mattress, box springs, head boards. $25 each or best offer. Call 272-2977. 
Sports car at economy car prices . 1971 Fiat 850 racer, vinyl hardtop, 35 MPG excellent condition. 232­8830. 
For Sale: Typewriters your choice $25. 7735, Brother Clarence. 
For Sale: Norelco cassettes CHEAP. Guaranteed for life. call 1868 Paul. 
1970 MGB roadster. Blue 10,000 miles. Asking $2400. Call 234­8533. 
1969 blue Shelby GT-350, 33,000 miles, perfect condition, body work needed, call Ed-287-3666. 
Wurds 1di1 2chl lchi 4H. Mit 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.51 n. u 1.00 1.50 1.15 2.,. 2.41 '16-21 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.M 2;55 :t.a ,.., 1,45 26-30 2." 3.15 J.95 ••u 5.15 31-35 2.4!.3.65 4.45 us 6.l5 ,...... 2.10 4.21 us 6.lS ,...7!1 
41-45 3.15 4.71 '·" 7.......
• .......~ .....,... i;,. 
Basement of Farley HaD 

G·UESS WHO is coming1 Oct. 14 in the ACC. 
TOBACCO HUT. LTO. Now open to serve you 

Specializing in: Pipes Accessories Bulk Custom Blending Tobaccos 
VISIT US SOON 
WANTED 
Desparately need ride West on I· 80; Friday, September 22. Call Patte 4629. 
Need 2 5 tickets for Pittsburgh or TCU. Joe 8374. 
Desperately need three <together) general admission Missouri tickets. Will meet any reasonable price. Call 8446. 
Riders needed to Indianapolis Friday, Sept. 22. Rob 8518. 
Desperately need one Purdue ticket. Money l1j object. Call John 3239. 
Faculty member seeks guitar instruction for 12 year old son. Must include reading music. 272­7661. 
Want 4 or 6 tickets for either Purdue or Missouri. Will Pay. Call 255-4922 nights. 

there is neither a move to make Ehmann's appointment per­mamn<>nt or to appoint a search committee to interview possible replacements. Ehmann's job, his com padres say, depends on the evaluation of the press. 
Finally, the very nature of the University Press editorial board constitutes a problem for its members. Of the six members interviewed for this series and Ms. 
Others represented acadmic disciplines which the Press specialized in. But, across the board, there is no norm for selecting press members. 
Because no press member could give the norms, they could not reply why no alumnus in the printing business had been invited to serve on the University Press editorial board in an advisory capacity. 
Several members half-replied that the distance and time would 
South Bend 
Need 4 tickets for Missouri. Call 287-6154 in P.M. 
1 or 2 housemates needed . 732 Penna Ave. Cheap, good ac­comodations with 2 seniors. 2 bedroom, furnished· call Mark or George at 289-5940. 
Need Purdue tix. Will pay your price. Call 7819. 7812, or 7471. 
Ride needed to Ohio Northern (or vicinity) in Ada Ohio any weekend; contact Rick by calling 8917. Will pay. 
Need 2-3 general admission tix for Purdue call 1946. 
NEED 3 or 4 general admission tickets to either Pittsburgh or Missouri game. Call Pat, 3277. 
Wanted: Part-time legal secretaries to assist small law firm. General practice. Inquire: 920 South Bend Avenue; 234-3216. 
Need 2 general admission Purdue tix. Will pay. Call 3499 after noon or after 11 p.m. 
Need ride to Cleveland on Friday, Sept. 22. Call Mary Beth 4391. 
NEEDED: 3 general admission tickets for Pittsburgh. Contact Joe 7471 or 232-5633. 
Need 2 general admission tix to Pittsburgh must be together. Call John 7845. 
Help! I desperately need 1·4 general admission tix for Purdue game. Name your price, call Mike 6984. 
Need Purdue tickets. General admission or student. Call Frank 8825 or Ed 8463. 
Shahjahanpur Need student Purdue tickets. Call 6920 after midnight. 
Photographer wanted. Eill pay. Call 6869. 
Need two general admission tix together for Missouri and Texas Christian game. Call Kevin at 7845. 
PERSONALS 
Notice: September 15, 1972, Alfred C. Constants Ill: Today 1 am a man. 

-





