,......--------------------~------~ 
the last coupla days fooled ya, didn't they? 
just expect more of the same--south bend ain't finished with us yet! 


Vol. VI, No. 92 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Friday, March 3, 1972 


The Prime Mover--apparently reading the right books, begins his reign April 1••• 
Kersten defeats Dziedzic 
Garners 65% of vote 
by T-<'-Treanor 
H. Calhoun Kersten and Uncandidate the Cat took 19 of 20 halls, Moreau, St Joe's and off ­campus in scoring a smashing 1500 -vote triumph over Campus Ombudsman Paul Dziedzic last night. 
Kersten, an oligarchist, collected sixty-five point seven percent of the vote, topping the record 63.6 per cent former SBP Dave Krashna polled two years ago. 
Cavanaugh was the only hall to give an edge to Dziedzic, who finished with thirty-three percent of the vote. Slightly one percent of the vote were invalid. 
Kersten, who has labelled himself the "Prime Mover" picked up the four halls he didn't carry on the first ballot. Badin, which went for Hall Life Commissioner Bob Higgins first time around, gave Kersten a 69 to 46 margin. Lyons, which voted for Gary Caruso on the fist ballot, gave the "Prime Mover" a 151 to 36 vote. Keenan and St. Joe's both gave Dziedzic an edge last Tuesday. gave the "King" 126 to 116 and 18 to 15 affirmations, respectively. 
Cavanaugh's margin for Dziedzic was only four votes; !11 to 77. 
Appearing before an enthusiastic crowd at LaFortune Student Center shortly after Student Body President John Barkett announced the figures, Kersten promised that "Cavanaugh Hall will be the next woman's dorm on campus." 
Kersten, who is reportedly in daily contact with God the Father, entered LaFortune from the Ballroom Staircase surrounded by close to a hundred followers. The "Prime Mover" assumed microphones belonging to the campus radio station, WSND, to give greeting to His people. 
His Movership attributed his triumph to "Divine intervention," but contended that he did not want to "demean Myself to the trivial and mundane tasks of Student Government." 
Ket sten had earlier urged His people not to vote for Him, revealing that God the Father had appeared to Him in a vision and told Him to "get Yourself the hell out." 
Later, though, His Movership changed His Mind. saying that "I'm in the race to win." 
Last nightHe attributed His decision to stay in the race because of "the urging of My running ­mate. UnCandidate_" His running-mate, unlike llimself, is a mortaL 
The "King" said He had "no" definite plans for the future of student government When asked whether and for how long He would stay in office, He said that "all I can say is that the feast of the Ascension is May ll_" 
Kersten also had come comments on the man he defeated in last night's runoff, Paul Dziedzic. "He<Dziedzic) was trying to do basically what we were trying to do." 
Earlier. He suggested that He might offer cabinet posts to the mortals he defeated in the SBP race. Dziedzic, contacted an hour after the race was over and made official, said that "I am not going to accept a cabinet position if it is of­fered-I have obligations to other people now, but none to the student government structure." 
Dziedzic maintained that student government would still have to " "challenge the student body." 
I think it has to be done. The potential has always been there, but the student body hasn't respect for itself. Everything is still the same," the Omsbudsman contended. 
"Kersten isolated what we always suspected was in the student body, but in doing so he set one faction of the student body against another. The potential is still very great -it just makes the challenge greater. And if he is able to pull it off­if he is able to show that the whole student body is similarly oriented -then his administration will be a tremendous success." 
Dziedzic argued that Kersten next year would 
have to "challenge the student body to begin to 
respect itself. Student Government must stop­
trying to provide answers and start providing a 
leadership to challenge the student body." 
Dziedzic has another three weeks to serve as 
Student Government Omsbudsman. 
Kersten will assume office on April first It 
was rumoured that He planned to make some 
structural changes and then resign, but He had 
"no comment" on the issue. 
Kersten's only other venture into Notre Dame 
student politics was a bid He made to become 
Walsh hall section leader earlier in the year. He 
finished third. 
••.with his SBVP, Uncandidate Cat, first female Notre Dame poobah_ 
Seymour, Welte win top spots at St. Mary's 

by Maria Gallagher Obst>rver St. Mary's Editor 
Jean Seymour and Sue Welte emerged victorious in the SMC student body presidential contest last night, defeating Eileen Fitzpatrick and Mary Orr by 516 to 346, with 55 per c~t of the student body voting. "None of the above" rec1eved 99 votes. 
Regina Hall President Barb McKierman won the Student Affairs Commissioner position with 593 votes, as opposed to 327 ballots cast for none of the above. 
Natalie Dwyer was elected Academic Affairs Commissioner with 507 votes; 348 voted for "none of the above." 
Ms. Orr stated for herself and Ms. Fitzpatrick: "We'd only like to thank those who supported us, and, because of what we believe in, hope that all the students pull together to make the school a really good place." 
Ms. Seymour commented, "Thanks to everybody who worked for us, especially our campaign manager, Jan Natale. She did a hell of a job. We also hope that we will be able to cooperate with Eileen and Mary; not to do so would be a tremendous waste of talent" 
Ms. Welte added, "We're looking forward to next year. It will be challenging, but we feel we can handle it. We plan to put our ideas into effect immediately." 
The counting of ballots was supervised by the election committee, the candidates, and Ms. Kim Mulaney. St. Mary's dean of students. 
Seymour: Hope to Welte: Looking forward cooperate with defeated to next year_ opponents Fitzpatrick and Orr. 

-~----~--~ 

ND -SMC release '72-'73 course exchange 
by Mike Haum 
Simultaneous press releases from Notre Dame and St. Mary's College have defined the positions of both schools on St. Mary's women taking courses at Notre Dame next semester. 
Both reports distinguish among three classes of students: the 26 SMC Juniors currently in the Notre Dame College of Business Administration. the 86 St. Mary's Juniors in Notre Dame programs not offered or fully staffed at St. Mary's, and all other students (not now in Notre Dame major programsl. 
The policy of the two in­stitutions differs only with respect to this last (and largest) group. 
Hichard Conklin, Director of Information Services at Notre Dame, expressed the. essential differences between Notre Dame's policy and St. Mary's observing: "We're completely open toSt. Mary's students, the only stipulation being the tuition has to be paid. St. Mary's is applying some restrictions to their own students." 
The Notre Dame release says 
that : "As a general policy, each institution will accept all qualified students from the other in to its course and degree programs on a part-or full-time basis. Full-time students will pay the tuition costs of the institution in which they are taking courses, and part-time students will pay the per-<:redit hour charges." 
This would apply to freshmen, and sophomores and juniors at St. Mary's not presently in a Notre Dame major program. By contrast, the St. Mary's release says: "OTHER STUDENTS HETUHNING next fall, present freshmen, sophomores and juniors not now enrolled in a major progran'l at Notre Dame will t·onlinue their regular Saint M:u-y's prog•·ams, with the option of enrolling in Notre Dame classes not offered by Saint Mary's. Degrees will be granted by Saint Ma•·y's." 

Letters to St. Mary's students from the college detail the restrictions on co-ex courses in force at St. Mary's. Students of this group may opt for "Tuition I'Ian A", where they will take all courses at St. Mary's College, up to 18 credit hours, at a tuition of $1,125 per semester. "Tuition I'Ian B" will alow students at St. Mary's to take some courses at Notre Dame. 
This plan will charge a tuition of $1,020 and require that at least 12 credit hours be taken at SMC. The students choosing plan B must of course also pay the Notre Dame charge for part-time course work, presently $100 per l' rt•dit hour. but subject to change, usually up. 
The possibility of taking all courses at Notre Dame does not exist save for outright transfer. Courses taken at Notre Dame must be approved by thl SMC Academic Dean. 
SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS ARE provided for St. Mary's students in Business Ad­ministration at Notre Dame. These students may either apply 
for transfer to Notre Dame and receive priotity consideration, or 

Vienna Sy1nphony to per/orin 
The famed Vienna Symphony 
Orchestra, under the direction of 
Josef Krips, will present a con­
cert in ()'Laughlin Auditorium at 
!I o'clock, March 8. Ticket 
reservations for the concert, 
sponsored by the Performing Art 
Series, are presently being taken. 
Krips, who has served as guest 
conductor of many of the world's 
major orchestras, is on a two­
month tour of the United States, 
the third in the history of the 
group founded in 1900. The 
traveling company includes 110 
men and 10 women. 

A concert violinist at the age of 15, Krips was named conductor of the Vienna State Opera in 1933, and later, as a professor at the Vienna Academy of Music, conducted the Salzburg Festival for the first time. lie is con­ductor emeritus of the San Francisco Symphony and has served as music director or 
16 law students appointed clerks in 
major court systems 
Approximately 12 per cent of the third year Law School students at the University of Notre Dame have received ap­pointments to serve as law clerks in major state or district court systems. The figure of 16 is believed to be the highest in the history of the law school and ranks well above the national average for appointments in graduating classes. 
One student, William J. Maledon of Detroit, Mich., is one of two law students in the nation to receive an appointment to the staff of Supreme Court Justice William Brennan. 
Three others have accepted clerkships in state supreme courts. They include Michael W. llilliard, University City, Mo., Missouri Supreme Court; f<'rederick J. Martone, Melrose, Mass., Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts; and Randall L. Stamper. Maple Valley, Wash., Supreme Court of Idaho. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ec­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box 
Q,  Notre Dame,  Indiana  46556,  
Second class postage paid.  Notre  
Dame, Ind.  46556.  


conductor of the Buffalo Philharmonic, Israel Philhar­monic, Cincinnati May Festival, Metropolitan Opera, Chicago Lyric Opera, Boston Symphony, l.os Angeles Philharmonic and the Chicago Symphony. 
Honors accorded to Krips in­

clude the Ring of the United Nations~ the Cross of Honor for Art ana Science from Austria Austria's Mozart Ring, the Ring of Honor from the City of Vienna, the Bruckner Medal of the f<~uropean and American Bruckner Societies, and the Great Silver Medal for Merits to 
the Hepublic of Austria. 

During the orchestra's first 60 years it played more than 500 first performances, including 150 world premieres. The Vienna Symphony was the first to play Bruckner's Ninth Symphony in 1903 and followed this with first works of Richard Strauss Ravel Heger. Kodaly, Blacher,' Einen; and others. 
The orchestra introduced to Austria the works of Tchaikov­sky. Debussy, Bartok Mahler llindemith, Honegge~. Frank Martin, Werner Egk, Wolfgang Fortner, Stravinsky and others. 
Meconi, Nagle elected new Morrissey officers 
by Daniel Rock 

Vince Meconi surprised three other contestants and was handily elected Morrissey Manor President for next year. Meconi and his running mate Gerry Nagle collected 116 of 253 votes cast. 
His closest opponents, Juan l{ivers, III, and write-in can­didate John Short tied for second place with 53 votes. Freshman 
Tom  Tinsley  finished  the  
balloting with 31.  
Aske? if he expected to  win,  

Mecom answered, "I really didn't know-but I was surprised at the large margin of dif­ference." 
Meconi, a Junior Government major from Wilmington, Delaware' said that he hopes to "bolster the sense of community that seems to have declined in the Manor." 
The former Athletic Com­missioner said that he plans to do this through a "wide variety of activities--social, athletic, and academic." 
When questioned about the two new girls dorms near Morrissey, Meconi responded, "I'm all for cooperation, like co-sponsoring functions but every other hall will want to also. 

Meconi commented on the Student Body elections this way: "Obviously this shows dissatisfaction with student government. I'm somewhat apprehensive because I really do 
believe  there  is  a  place  for  
student  government  at  Notre  
Dame.  


10% OFF 
On any mechanical 
work and winterizing. 
For students and 
University Personnel 

Roseland Gulf 402 U.S. 31 North Across frnro Rur~~r King 

MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15pm Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30am Sun. Fr. Thomas McNally, C.S.C. 
10:45 am Sun. Fr. Aidan Kavanagh 0 S B 
12:15 pm Sun. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. ' ' ' 
Vespers: 4:30 pm • Our Lady's Chapel 
n•main at St. Mary's and have their tuition transferred to Notre Dame. They will receive Notre Dame degrees, the main dif­ference will be the campus. 
Students remaining at St. Mary's will be subject to that College's student affairs polciies. 
Simialrly, the 86 Sl. Mary's juniors in other programs (all but one are in Arts and Letters programs l may continue to take their departmental major requirements at Notre Dame, and receive a Notre Dame degree. 
Their tuition for these courses will be written off by Notre Dame against credits taken by ND students at St. Mary's. 
The St. Mary's letter notes in Pach case: "A student who thinks that these policies do not explain her particular situation or feels that her situation involves a special set of circumstances may request a review of her case before the Academic Affairs Council. This review should be requested in writing to the Academic Dean by April 10, 

1972." 

THE ROMA presents THE POST-ELECTION PARTY 
(All ND-SMC Students are invited) 
All the SCHLITZ you can handle Rock Music by CHAPPED LIPS MASTER OF CEREMONIES: THE PRIME .MOVER 
Admission: $2.00 (NO), $1.50 (SMCl 2nd Floor at the Roma, 219 N. Michigan Ave.-Next to Morris Civic Auditorium. 
ATTENTION PRE-LAW STUDENTS Notre Dame pre-law society presents 
Three Law Students (2 guys, 1 girl) speaking about their law experiences 
Friday March 3-7:00 pm 127 Nieuwland 

Clothes and things Men's Boutique 





tlte Ptt Stap 
"On the Mall" -McKinley Town & Country Shopping Center-Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 259­
7:l.1."i 
Alumni Club 
(Senior· Bar) 
Once again 
presents 



Chapped Lips 
Playing:Saturday from 9-1

PLUS 1oq: SchlifJ 

~----------f~r~o~m~7~-~9--~ 

( THE OBSERVER. ] 



Kersten S plans

Election Wrap-up 
didnIt include 

Friday, March 3, 1972 Page 3 


getting elected 



The King and his court in Walsh Hall show their triumph over Student Government poobahs. 
The mew who presented the King with his victory: the Notre Dame election committee count the votes ... 
... and the people who an­nounced the Prime Mover's conquest. 

by Bob Cosentino 
Bob Kersten never really planned to be student body president of Notre Dame. In fact, he said (in an interview) that he was against student activism to any great extent. He is serious about his academic work-he has a 3.9 average in pre­med. And his well-planned parody of the student elections demonstrated his personal disrespect for student political machines. 
But, if Bob Kersten is so anti-political, why did he run for SBP? And how did he ever win with 65 per cent of the votes? 
"I originally decided to run for SBP after the fourth student declared his candidacy in the Observer," said Kersten. "All the can­didates came out with the same trite statements and cliches. I knew I couldn't take that for 10 days straight. That's when I got the idea of the Prime Mover." 
Kersten's campaign was spontaneous. He laughs at the candidates who spent hundreds of dollars on their campaigns. Kersten spent $7.27. And besides a few hours spent writing his speeches, very little other work was involved in his campaign. 
"I never really intended my campaign to go so 
far," stated the "Prime Mover." We wanted to 
satirize the election and then drop out of it." 
The development of the campaign convinced 
him to continue, however. "I was screwed over 
many times by people who didn't want me to 
win." Kersten referred to a WSND an­
nouncement in which someone impersonating 
him stated that Kersten was withdrawing. "I 
never made that tape for WSND. Fortunately it 
was never aired." 
Secondly, "I didn't want everyone 
to take student government so seriously. I 
Observer Insight' 
thought it was important to add a little humor to the election instead of having candidates slashing at each other all the time." 
Lastly, Kersten firmly believed that the students needed a candidate to identify with. And the students identified with Kersten as they could with no other candidate. 
Most of the other candidates claimed they would bring student government down to the student's level if elected. Kersten stated just the opposite. "We need oligarchy," he said. But Kersten proved his point, from Machiavelli's Tlw Prince: ''The crowd is caught solely by appearance, and there is nothing in the world but the crowd." 
Fewer than 20 students usually showed up to hear other candidates speak in the halls. Ker­sten usually gathered more than 100 students at his rallies. Wednesday night over 1,200 students listened to the "Prime Mover's" words in front of Walsh. 
"By not saying anything, I was actually saying more than the other candidates," contended Kersten. "If I would have just gotten up and made a fool of myself, no one would have listened. But I had something meaningful to say and the students responded." 
What Kersten found is a definite need to re-evaluate Notre Dame's perspective of student government. He brought out the "political animal" in his opponents. He showed the Observer to be a "bush-league manipulator of student opinion," and he brought down the sacred aloof image of what he called the "poobah." 
Kersten never intended to be student body president. He doesn't have the time or the thirst for power. He does have real concern for the people of Notre Dame. 
After Kersten resigns from his newly elected 
position (he says he will before May 11), he will 
call another election. 
"Let's hope by that time the candidates will 
appeal more to the students than to the hierar­
chy," Kersten said. "If they don't we may have 
to make another appearance next time." 


Oligarchy! 
---------~--------­

Breach of contract 
SMC frosh consider lawsuit at meeting 
by Mary Romer 

In a meeting of the St. Mary's portion of the freshman class last night Nancy Christopher, student government secretary, presented the different ways that the class could bring a lawsuit against St. Mary's. This is being considered in an effort to confirm their status as Notre Dame students. 
After cosulting a lawyer, the student government has found that there are two different types ofsuits the freshman class could 
memories 
Remembering the confrontations with Sr. Alma last November, the St. Mary's freshmen look into lawsuits against the College. 

bring against the school. (1) they . could sue for breach of contract on the grounds that the freshmen were under the impression that 

French seize heroin load stored in shrimp boat 
by IIPnry Giniger 
<c> 1!172 New York Times 

Paris, March 2 --French customs agents in Marseilles found almost half a tone of pure heroin aboard a 60-ton shrimp boat early this morning. 
French officials called the drug seizure the biggest ever made. It came after a day of searching the vessel whose home port is point-a-Pitre in Guadeloupe. Waterproof bags containing 935 pounds of h~roin were found embeddin in concrete in the hold. 
The captain , identified as Marcel Boucan, a 57-year-old frenchman, was reported to have tried to commit suicide by diving overboard after leaving a note declaring that his family and the six-man crew, all natives of <;uadeloupe, were innocent. He was later picked up half-drowned and revived in a hospital. 
(Continued on page 5) 



Ulster Justice group discusses plans. publicity 
In its first meeting, the Notre Dame Committee for Ulster Justice announced its plans to inform the campus of the need for civil rights in Northern Ireland. 
Fifteen people attended last night's meeting in Lewis Hall. 
According to committee orgamzer Denise Askins, "In­formation is our biggest project." 
Law Students Night to be held 
The Pre-Law society will hold its annual "Law Students Night" tonight in room 127 Nieuwland at 7 p.m. As in past years, the program will consist of several law students from various law schools, each speaking for a few minutes on their experiences in law school. The law students generally have valuable in­formation about topics such as admissions, financial aid, or amount and type of studying encountered in Jaw school. A new feature on this year's program will be the addition of a woman law student. 
She commented that she was 
"appalled at the ignorance of most students about it." Among ideas to inform the students discussed were: articles in the Scholastic and the Ob­SI'I'Vl'l', a radio talk show and distribution of information on campus were discussed as possible methods of countering this. 
One student mentioned that a group of students were working to bring the Irish National Champion and All-Irish football and curling teams to Notre Dame in April. It was suggested that this would be an excellent chance for students to hear some first hand accounts of what is really happening. 
Another idea was to hold a special mass and have someone speak at it to coincide with the visit. 
They also discussed fund raising activities. The group decided to try to find help from campus groups. 
The committee will operate independently of the New York­based American Committee for Ulster Justice. 
Now ROMA presenting the most talented band 
"The Fifth Amendment" 
Wed., Fri., Sat. 
for your dancing pleasure don't miss them! Large T. Bone $2.95, wonder-pizza deliveries, phone 234-3258 
they were Notre Dame students would also be available to 
when they were accepted here, students of any class. This would 
and <2) they could sue for be the best chance for any in­
negligible representation, which dividual cases. Student government paid for the legal advice from their treasury_ The girls present did not think a law suit would be feasible because of the enormous cost it would entail. Most of the fresh­men felt that a lawsuit cannot improve their position and that its only purpose would be to give Notre Dame and St. Mary's some 
bad publicity. One freshman said, ''St. Mary's is hurting itself enough without a law suit --it won't accomplish anything. The purpose for a suit was publicity and pressure, and now that the merger has fallen through it would be useless." 
Since only 45 people were present, the class has scheduled another meeting next week which they hope more people will at­tend, and at which they will make definite plans as to what they want to do. 




Hans Haus 
2803 So. Michipn St. l'hclne 29H&22 
German Food 
Our Specialty 
Created with Old World Atmosphere. Specializing in German and American Foods. 
Open 10:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m. Closed Sundays and Holidays South Bends Finest Banquet Rooms The Alpine & Bavarian Rooms 

Dull, uninteres 
.......-__. weekend ahead? 

Not ifyou ,get the messag 
ANHEUSER-BUSCH, INC. o ST.lOUIS o NEWARK o lOS ANGELES o TAMPA o HOUSTON o COLUMBUS o JACKSONVIllE o MERRIMACK 
5 


L* mock convention '72 
340 delegate volunteers needed 
by Ann McCany 2 pm to 5 pm and from 7 pm to 11 lead to a better understanding of Women are especially pm. Delegates will be excused the American political system." requested to sign up for the 
The Democratic Mock Con­from classes. Several of the major convention, as the present ratio vention still needs at least 340 Andrus also feels that the Democratic candidates have of men to women delegates is 10 more delegates says organizer <'ducational value of the four-day been invited to appear at the to I. Eric Andrus. convention outweighs any con­convention. Andrus feels there is Any student interested in being 
Hepresentatives will canvass siderations of time. a "good chance" that some of the a delegate can receive more 

Citroen

dorms Sunday evening to com­We're using the rules used by candidates will come. The In­information from Andrus or the 


plete the roster of 666 delegates the official convention. By diana primary election will be Student Union Academic Com­registered last week. following these rules, students held on May 7, and many will be mission. A fee of one dollar will 
"We have to have 1004 can become familiar with them," campaigning in the state at that be the only charge for the four delegates to make the convention Andrus contended. "This should time. day event. feasible," Andrus said. "It's not crucial. but a delegation of 1004 would make our convention 
Drugs found on French vessel
directly proportionate to the actual democratic convention." 
between Turkey and other Middle 
The convention will be held (Continued from page 4) boats, belonging to customs, East areas and the United States. 
April 24 to 27. Lawrence O'Brien, Boucan was known to the · when they hailed her she refused Generally, the drugs arrive to be chairman of the Democratic customs service as a long-time to stop and two warning shots processed into heroin in carefullyNational Committee, will give the smuggler of cigarettes. He was were fired. The boat was then 
hidden laboratories around
keynote address at the con­said to have bought the shrimp taken to Marseilles. 
Marseilles. Little more than avention on Tuesday. April 25. boat. the "Caprice des Temps" A first inspection showed the month ago one such laboratory"A lot of people haven't signed about three years ago. In that 62-foot vessel to be empty. But was discovered after more thanup because they are afraid that it time she made three crossing suspicions were raised the by fact two years of searching.
will take up too much of their between the Mediterranean and that she seemed to be carrying 
Today's success brought

time," Andrus commented. "The the West Indies. ballast not only in the middle, 
congratulations from Finance
only time most delegates will It was not immdeiately clear which is the usual place, but Minister V' Alery Giscardhave to devote is the time that the where the Caprice des Temps toward the bow. The concrete in D'Estaing. Both the Marseillesconvention is actually in session, was coming from when she was the hold appeared to account for police and customs have been
plus going to a few short, spotted during a stopover in the weight in back. 
under heavy pressure from the 
organizational meetings before Villefranche-sur-mer, near Nice, Marseilles and the Riviera United States which has a con­
the convention." Tuesday. That night she left the coast have long been known as a tingent of nar~otics agents in the Sessions will be held daily from port followed by two coast patrol major transit center for drugs Mediterranean city working with them under a gent!ral agreement between the U.S. and France.


MANASA conference slated 
The heroin was estimated to have a retail value in New York, when mixed with other products, 
for Ball State March 18 -19 
of $45 million based on a calculation that there would be enough to make about 9 million 
by Marlene Zloza transactional analysis and highlighted by speaker Eugene doses..
homosexuality. E. Levitt, Ph.D., director of the Plans have been announced for A dinner and evening of en­psychology section of the Indiana the Ninth Annual MANASA tertainment will conclude the University Medical School 
Edge City:

Conference, to be held at the Ball day's activities. Department of Psychiatry. 
Front wheel drive, power assisted rack & pm1on steering, hydropneumatic suspension for constant level ride, aerodynamic design and elegant interiors. What more can you ask for? 
sed Specials Of T eek 
71 850 FIAT SPIDER Like new 70 124 FIAT SPORTS COUPE Real Sharp-An excellent buy 70 OLDS TORNADO Loaded . 13,000 actual miles 69 CITROEN A Choice of Two Pallas and D Special SEE THE 128 FIATS Economy Car of the Year 

IIIIBD. 
auto/~p.ott ~ilnll 
r52148-u.s: 31 N. 
South Bend · 
Phone 272-2154 

State University Student Center Scheduled for Sunday is a The cost of the conference is 


;St. Mary's Coffee House 
March 18-19. The conference will Presidents' and State Officers' thirteen dollars, including meals include several well-known Meeting, and a closing brunch and accomodations. 
Presents 

speakers and a weries of workshops. 
Friday, Marcfl3 -Rock Music with 
The program will convene Saturday morning with a 

Ox Peddle



ND KinetoScope to 
welcoming address by Jack 
9 to 1

Stinchcomb, state general chairman. and continue with a 
75¢



encourage students 
luncheon and speech by former Indiana Governor Since the dissolution of the the vacations. This is to prevent ~unday, March 5 -Weekly FolkMatthew E. Welsh. His topic is Black Maria Film Group a few the equipment from being ripped Politics, Pressure Groups and years ago, little has been done in off or "lost" as was the case when 
Show 

Students for Mental Health. the area of student-made films Black Maria disbanded. Conferees will then have a here at Notre Dame. A new The first Meeting of Notre 
8:30 to 12 

choice of attending any four of organization on campus, Notre Dame KinetoScope will be held 
25¢

eight afternoon workshops Dame KinetoScope, is attempting this evening at 7:30 in 204 focusing on different aspects of to fill this void. O'Shaugnessy. Those interested college campus mental health Bunning the organization wilJ. but unable to attend the meeting 
Truck on· over! 

programs. be grad students Jim Dyer, should contact Enderlin at 3097. 
Featured guests and their topics include: Dr. Judith Vogt, Ball State University, on Human Awareness; Indianapolis psychologist Edward R. Strain Ph. D., on Careers in Mental Health; and Rev. Gary W. Ed­wards, Christian Student Foundation, Muncie, on the Jesus Movement. 
Conducting a panel discussion on Death and Aging will be Dr. John R. Caraddock, Indiana State Commission on Aging, and Ms. Kathleen J. Halberg and Jay 
S. Southwick, both from the In­diana State Board of Health. 
Other topics are alcoholism, hospital volunteer programs, President; Bill Barnes, Secretary-Treasurer; and Lee Enderlin, Vice-President. 
According to Enderlin, the purpose of the organization is to provide grants in raw film or cash, equipment, and facilities to students in order to produce their own films in eiher Super 8 or 16 mm. The organization already has a good start in maintaining studios in the Butler Building and in obtaining cash grants from the Cultural Arts Commission's Cinema Series. 
The Art Department will act as a "watch-dog" in maintaining an inventory of all equipment and in storing the equipment over 

HOURS, 
MON • TUES • TKU'II. • FRI 9 AM 5:30PM WED • SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLETE SPBCTACLE





RoGERS 
SERVICE ALL fYE 011.'5 PR£SCRIPTIONS HONORE!:


Optical 
Call 

289-7809
JtOGER ATWELL· OWNER 

VOLUNTEERS for the Annual SHAMROCKS FOR DYSTROPHY DRIVE 
are 



DESPERATELY NEEDED. 
Drive to take place week of MARCH 5th Prizes for top collectors. Party for all Participants. 
Organizational Meeting Sunday, March 5th. 7:00pm at Notre Dame Knights of Columbus 
-----~-~~--­
T. C. Treonor 111111111111111111111111n11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
White cane lying in a gutter in the lane News: 283-1715 If you're walking home alone Editorial: 283-8661 Don't lef it bring you down Business: 283-7471 Its only castles burning. 
N. Young John Abowd 
Editor~in~chief 
Don Ruane Executive Editor Jim Jendryk Business Manager Bill Bauerle Advertising Munager 
from the editor's desk 



The first hurrah 
"We were not elected as joke candidates. The reaction to the withdrawal statement brought that out." 
Bob Kersten 3-2-72 
Ca mpaigns(genus: political, species: student) do strange things to people, especially those who get tied up in the thicket of a grand personality assualt. For a month students pick sides then do their best to knife apart people, who just a few weeks earlier they numbered among their friends. When winning is the only game, it's a prisoner's dilemna. 
The Prisoner's Dilemna 
The prisoner's dilemna as students of Deutche realize, in­volves two convicts who are brought before the governor. Individually, he tells them that if one will testify against the other, he will go free and his compatriot will bite the electrical dust. The catch is: if both confess, they both die; if neither confesses they both spend the next ten years in jail. The last position is called the "plus-plus" condition because both prisoners gain by not testifying. The "plus-minus" and the "minus-plus" conditions represent either prisoner pimping the other. It's easy to see how either of these last two positions could very quickly become the "minus-minus" condition in which both prisoners sail off into never-never land. That's what the governor wants. 
In student politics, the cam­paign is the prisoner's dilemna. Personality assualts are the "minus" situation. And the esc a Ia tion from one assualt to a whole battalion of slams is the natural by-product of any one candidate's entry into the "minus bracket. Fortunately, Bob Ker­sten put an end to that, for the time being. Kersten is in a genuine bind. He recognizes that there is serious, but mundane work to be done in his LaFortune student castle. But to consider tackling those jobs would deprive the satire he created of any meaning. 
The Withdrawal 
Nothing demonstrates this 
predicament more clearly than 
hazy circumstances surrounding 
the withdrawal statement. For 
the record these are the facts: 
--Kersten composed the 
statement in The Observer office 
at 4: 00 Thursday morning. 
--He was accompanied by Paul Dziedzic who asked that his name not be mentioned to avoid charges that anyone pressured Kersten into issuing the statement. Ker­sten and Dziedzic had discussed the move but Kersten made the decision to release it on his own. 
--At Kersten's request no story was written to accompany the release; however, he was shown the headline: "Kersten With­ctraws!" and offered no objection. 
--The election committee was 
never notified of this decision. 
It wasn't until many of his supporters asked him to stay in the race that he made a public retraction on WSND. So Bob Kersten will remain in Office: "Right now, I do want to have new elections. There's a chance we might stay in--but don't count on it." To be sure, the thought of another SBP election does not bring delight to this office. Everyone has learned the lesson. Everyone, that is, except the students who really didn't have any lesson to learn. 
Deja vu 
Back to the prisoner's dilemna. The only way to insure the "plus­plus" condition is to force all the candidates to put only their honest foot forward. To spare everyone another week and a half of deja vu, a suggestion --if Kersten ctecides to resign, have a one day campaign consisting entirely of a forum of all contenders assem­bled in Washington Hall in front of any and all interested students. One night of speeches and questions should ge quite enough to prevent a circus and allow any still existent doubts to be ctisuaded. It might even be fun, in a perverse sort of way. 
.John Abowd 
Vanish in the haze 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 The new season ends 
TilE HEVENGE OF CALHOUN KERSTEN 
I .l't ml' tell you about the campaign of Calhoun Kersten. Perspiring 
with confusion. quivering with hesitation, it was the saving grace of 
satire which holy ghostwrote his success. Hysteria, want, and bit­
terness formed theholy trinity which put him over the top. But you 
know that. 
I.et me tell you about the campaign of Calhoun Kersten. Two days 
before he announced, he was unsure of how he would come off--fearful, 
and discouraged by the reception WSND had given him. Two days 
hdorp the election, he knew how he had come off, and he was more 
fearful and unsure than before. But you know that too. 
I.Pt me tell you about the campaign of Calhoun Kersten. It was 
parody come to perfect circle; parody turned to salvation; oligarchy 
turned to anarchy. The Revolution came to Notre Dame, and the 
Bt>volution was a joke. 
I.t•t me tell you about the campaign of Calhoun Kersten. It was a 
satire -but not really a satire on student government; not really a 
satire on the SBP candidates. It was a satire played on the Notre 
I>aml' student body. And the rabble responded beautifully. 
Ill' n•adwd people. He was the only candidate to do that. 'J,'hc, 
student body, 
lacking either the intelligence or the ambition to look at the candidates 
and discriminate between them or discriminate between them and the 
p ast student governments, turned in their self-righteous stupidity 
towards Kersten. They were deaf to his parody. He was simply the 
easiest man to vote for. 
Kersten knew that he could never reach the student body as a 
serious man, banging home his own version of the truth or his own 
vision of the future. The student body couldn't identify with that-they 
couldn't identify with a rational man. Instead, he sang forth his 
alkaline rhyme, and made his opponents vanish in the haze. 
II TilE HEIRS OF CALHOUN KERSTEN 
I have sent my spies scurrying to find a successor to the Prime 1\lovl'r-ambitious freshmen and sophmores for his SBP residency. t((•rp is what they found: 
Barry "NN-ro Fl.'t•lyuh : the "corpse candidate"; he promises to 
fornicate with all the corpses in the Prime Mover's revised fieldhouse, 
bringing about eschatalogical moment by finding life in death. 
nun Oldm·k: the "quack candidate" his platform and slogan will be, 
"don't bow. duck!" 
Tlw Zodiat· KiiiPr: on bail from the California penal system, he will 
promise not to kill anyone in office. 
lloly .Jnt•: recently released from Bellvue, he claims that not only 
docs he talk to God, he is God. 
There may be more, but there's already plenty for the student body 
to identify with. 
Ill VANISH IN THE HAZE 
Wlhy would anyone want the trivial, mundane job of the Student 
Body President? Why would anyone want to work fifty hours a week for the shit Rarkett has recieved this year? For that matter, why would anyone want to be the editor of the Observer'! the Scholastic? 
Station manager of WSND? 
The first reason is: they're all fools. Every last one of them. 
KPrsten revealed the se~ond reason himself, when a reporter asked 
him why he was running. "I never had any close friends in 
childhood." he said, "I was looking for affirmation." 
lie's so right: Those guys -candidates and candidates past; editors 
and editors past; station managers and station managers past, put 
their time, energy, ideas, and whole self on the· line in the desperate 
hope that the student body will give them a sign of their nppreciation. A 
sign of their respect. Of their friendship. Of their kindness. Of their 
affirmation. 
And they didn't get. They were beaten· and by a joke candidate. Has 
the student body ever performed a greater feat of jocular cruelty? 
Look at the candidates now! If you didn't know the full dirrensions of 
the late election, then you have even further good yuks coming to you. 
And what of the people who have already put everything they had 
into the LaFortune Oligarchy? They have seen the whole thing 
rejected. The whole thing. The Senate. The Student Union. Student 
Covernment prop~r:. The Observer. WSND Everything. 
What will they do? What can they do? Let me tell you They will 
stand, stock -still, slack -jawed, and amazed, as they all, all, all 
vanish in the haze. 

II II 11111111111111111111111111 IIllI111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
The Staff (Under New Management) 
Nite Editor: Joe Abell(as usual but with a new improved title) Assistant Nite Editor: Marlene Zloza (soon to usurp?) The New Management( and others): John Abowd, Jim McDermott, Maria Gallagher, Mike Baum, Bob Consentino, and a hell of a lot of drunk poobahs. Headlines: Don Biancamano Pix( well, one anyway): Bob Hughes Typists: Barb Norcross, Ann Druecker, Lucy Rodarte, John Brady, Dan Rock dawntreader: mark j. niederkorn 
maria gallagher 
peter gennero --no business like • • • 
To hear Peter Gennaro talk about the dance is to hear Michelangelo describe sculpture, or Beethoven music. He becomes excited and the listener, in turn, is caught up in his enthusiasm. As he gestures to emphasize a point, the air comes alive with the Pavlova and George 
M. Cohan. 
The veteran choreographer will be working with the Notre Dame-St. Mary's theatre for one week arranging dance numbers for the upcoming spring musical, Show boat. 
Gennaro accepted the invitation of Dr. Roger Kenvin to choreograph the show after it was discovered that he was the father of Notre Dame drama major Mike Gennaro. 
Ironically, Dr. Kenvin had been looking for "a Peter Gennaro type choreographer" for the production. 
Gennaro has tackled his task with en­thusiam. It is not the first time he has worked with non-professionals. About 20 years ago he used to train non-dancing actors and actresses, a number of whom are now famous. Grace Kelly was amoPg his pupils. 
Those days now seem far r~moved from the present, and Gennaro looks back on them with a touch of nostalgia. His start in show business was rather unorthodox--his debut as a "professional" dancer came while he was in the armed forces. 
Gennaro, who considers himself a "natural" dancer, had studied acrobatics and tap from an early age, but never performed publicly until he became connected with an entertainment unit in the army. Actor Melvin Douglas was commander of the troupe, which staged improvisations and USO-type shows. After the small brush with show business, Gennaro said, "I couldn't see myself going back to help with my father's business." His father was a bartender. 
Discharge in hand, Gennaro came to New York for two years of intensive 
study · under the G.I. bill. For 8 to 9 hours a day he lived and breathed dancing, studying every conceivable form and variation. Eventually he landed a job in an opera company as a ballet dancer, where he met his wife. 
From there he went into teaching, and his proverbial "big break" came when (;race Kelly recommended him to the producer of a new musical. The show it­self was "a colossal flop," Gennaro recalls with a smile, but soon Gennaro was well on his way to becoming one of the most celebrated dancers and choreographers in the entertainment world. 
Perhaps his most outstanding achievement was his collaboration with Jerome Robbins on the Broadway production of "West Side Story," which won several academy awards. 
The rest is history. Those who view the sorld of show business as merely fun and games for a salary need only investigate the endless hours, often without any ap­parent reward, that are a necessary prerequisite for fame. And, even after the top has been reached, everything about it is not necessarily as appealing as the song would have it. 

"Your time no longer your own. When you are workling on a show, it absorbs you. 
You eat, breathe, move, even sleep your work. And it leaves you drained, exhausted ... " 
The tiniest bit of bloodshot could be detected in Gennaro's twinkling eyes as he spoke. 
And yet, he'll be the first one to agree that there really is "no business like show business." 
"I suppose I prefer television to the living theatre because there's more money in it ... but it's all fun." 
Students in Show Boat sharing in Gen­naro's fun have voiced the deepest respect and admiration for him. "He's interested in everyone on a personal level; it really impressed me. The first night of rehearsal he started learning everybody's names," commented one. 
"We're learning so quickly," another added. "He's the most patient man I've ever seen." 
Geeting good reviews from those you work with is probably the highest form of praise a man can hope for. During his brief stay here, Peter Gennaro has im­pressed us as more than a performer, but most importantly of all--as a person. 


"Hamlet-A Planned Happening" will happen at St. Mary's Little Theatre in Moreau Hall. Performance times are 8:30pm on 3 and 4 March and 7:30pm on 5 March. 
sumer Repo·rts, explains why the lender's 
risk is so minimal. 
One element involves a miniature en­
dowment policy built right into the in­
surance policy. At the end of five years, 
the insurance company gets most of the 
cash value in payment of the 
policyholder's debt. -The promissory note itself has built into 
it an acceleration clause, a typical feature 
of retail installment contracts. If the 
student fails to pay any premiums on time, 
the lender can demand immediate 
payment of the entire loan. With the 
promissory note, he can also readily ob­
tain a court judgment ordering payment. 
Entitled "Caveat Emptor on Campus," the CU report warns that, as with most retail credit agreements, an insurance policy financing note may be impossible to cancel. Life insurance is customarily sold for a year at a time. When a student is persuaded to buy a policy and sign a financing agreement, he is committing hjmself to buJ ~ _f!l)ll'ear's P!"Otectio!_l_!___. 
None of the policies or promissory notes examined by Consumers Union had a provision for refund of premiums during the first year. And, says CU, the policies examined tended to be relatively ex­pensive cash value policies with lots of extra-priced features. 
Companies doing a: big business in college policies often set up special agents in college towns. They like to recruit as salesmen popular campus figures such as fraternity leaders, recently graduated star athletes, former coaches and even faculty members and administrators. 
One professor at Michigan State University is cited as reporting some students he interviewed didn't know tQty were signing a contract committimg them to buy insurance. Some thought they were signing a medical form. Others thought they were getting the first year's in­surance free. All were being sued by the same insurance company. 



the Insurance game 
into a selling point. Says Consumers.
Prepared by Consumer Reports Union, they approach the premium paying problem by offering to finance the firstUnless a college student has children, as annual premium, and frequently the a rule he should not buy life insurance. In second, with a loan to be paid off perhaps fact, says the nonprofit Consumers Union, five years later.

"the last thing most college students need The interest on that five year loan? It'sis life insurance." 
payable at an annual rate of 6 to 8 percent The exception would be the breadwinner or more. And, says CU, in many plans the on whom children will be dependent until policyholder pays interest on the interest, they grow up. Despite this atypical cir­
too. 

cumstance for a collegian, CU says that As an example of what life-insurance "the life insurance agent has become a loans can cost, the nonprofit consumer familiar figure on many campuses." 
organization tells of a $10,000 policy sold by 
Bearing this out is an industry survey of Fidelity Union life of Dallas in 1970. The 21-, more than 300 life-insurance companies year-old student purchaser paid an annual which turned up 20 per cent with sales interest rate of 8.5 per cent. The com­programs aimed at college students and pounded finance charge on the first year young professionals who are . not yet premium loan of $151 comes to $76.07. earning enough to pay the premmms. From the creditor's standpoint, such 
Isn't it difficult to sell a policy to loans are among the safest imaginable, someone who can't afford it? Insurance says Consumers Union. Its full report on men have their sales pitch so programmed the sale of life insurance to students, to this hurdle that they can often turn it contained in the Jannuary issue of Con­
--~---­
U.S. to recognize Bangladesh 
(l') 1!172 New York Times by Benjamin Welles 

Wahsington, March 2--Senior J<'oreign Policy officials of the Nixon Administration said today that the United States was preparing to recognize Bangladesh within four to six weeks. 
At the same time, the officials said. the administration is beginning to accelerate humanitarian aid programs to both Pakistan and to Bangladesh, which was formerly East Pakistan. The Agency for In­ternational Development an­nounced Saturday an immenent shipment of food grains worth $21 million to be distributed through the United Nations to Bangladesh. 
The Agency for International Development is also planning $3 million in cash grants to American voluntary agencies in Bangladesh for construction of food grains and long staple cotton 

shelters. plus other smaller sums is about to be signed with the 
for relief. government of Pakistan, these 
An agreement for $27 million in officials said. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Bangladesh gets Soviet aid 
by Theodore Shabad 
<c> 1!172 New York Times 
Moscow. March 2--The Soviet Union and Bangladesh signed two aid agreements today while the visiting Prime l\1inister of the new Bengali state, Sheik Mujibur Rahman, was received by Leonid I. Brezhnev, the Soviet Communist l'arly leader. 
Th~ official press agency TASS said Sheik Mujib, who arrived here yesterday on his first journey outside the Indian subcontinent since becoming Prime Minister, had thanked Brezhnev for "the tremendous support given by the Soviet l 1nion to the people of Bangladesh." 
Moscow's moral and diplomatic support for India last I lecember is generally credited with having been an im­portant factor in winding up the brief Indian-Pakistani war leading to the independence of the Bengali Moslem state. 
Brezhnev. though nominally leader of the Party, has been taking <Jn increasingly prominent role in the conduct of Soviet foreign policy. His meeting with Sheik Mujib was t-vidently intended to underline Soviet determination to maintain close relations with Bangladesh.
Soviet support was given concrete form in the two economic accords signed at the State Committee for Foreign Economic Relations, the Soviet foreign aid agency. 
1111111111 I1111 I I I 111111I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I II I I I II I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I II I I Ill II I I II II III III I I I I I I I I I I I I I Ill I I 
Plavac -wins Mardi Gras sales contest for third year straight 

by Anthony Abowd 

J<'or the third straight year Tom Plavac, a Notre Dame junior, surpassed all other ND students to become top seller of Mardi Gras Tickets. He walked away with $500 top prize by selling 201 ticket books. 
In his three years at ND, Plavac has sold 5,430 Mardi Gras raffle tickets, the proceeds of which go to the Notre Dame charities. He wants to be distinguished as NO's all-time lop salesman. 
Plavac revealed the keys to his success, "I always carry the tickets with me and I'm not afraid to ask. It is really easy to sell the tickets; you just need a little push, " he said. 
Plavac's push is winning the contest. He tries to break his own sales record every year. As a freshman he won a Bermuda trip, color T.V. and a shopping spree for selling 150 books. In his sophomore year he won the $500 top prize after peddling 192 books. 
l* mock convention 
Muskie people organizing now 
The Muskie organization for the upcoming Mock Convention is presently organizing, according to Mike McCarthy, co-chairman of the group. 
"We are confident that Muskie will gain the support here at Notre Dame that he has been gaining all over the country, McCarthy said yesterday. 
Allen Docal. another member of the team said that, although close to 90 per cent of the delegates entered in the con­vention were uncommitted, he felt the Muskie following was strong. Docal also noted that the Mock Convention would be in­fluential in determining the leader of the Indiana primary slated for the week after the convention. 
Those interested in joining the Muskie organization should contact either Docal at 1591 or McCarthy at 8810. 
"I'm going to win it again next year. I'm going to try and sell 300 books," Plavac said. 
Most of Plavac's selling is done over Christmas break. This year he sold 50 books at a Christmas party where he used to work. He sells to his relatives, ND coaches, employees and alumni. 
"Technique is important," Plavac said, "I use both the hard and soft sell approach. Sometimes it is best to appeal to the emotions. Other times it is easier to joke about it." 
A native of Ohio, Plavac has sold tickets to his governor (aND alumnus, and to Woody Hayes, head football coach at Ohio State University. But his most im­pressive sale was to Senator Hubert Humphrey. Plavac met Humphrey by coincidence over Christmas vacation at a Florida hotel. 
"Now I have a contact for ticket sales in Congress. That's the secret, you must have con­tacts." Plavac said. 
InhighhighschooldaysPlavac collected money for his baseball team. more than any any other 

Plavac: Top salesman at 
Mardi Gras attend medical school. He said he would fall back on his sales ability if he is not admitted to 
medical school. 
"I can sell anything and I think 
it is a lot of fun. I enter the contest 
to have fun and meet people." 
Plavac believes offering in­
centives for selling raffle tickets 
is a good idea. Presently there 
are several large cash prizes for 
top sellers and a 20 per cent 
Since Bangladesh declared independence following the In­dian-Pakistani war in December, --17 countries have granted her recognition, including the Soviet llnion. India, Britain, France. Japan and Canada. 
Of the major powers, only the 
ll. S. and China--both of which supported Pakistan in the con­flict--have failed to grant diplomatic recognition to the regime, headed by Sheik Mujibur Hahman. Sheik Mujib is currently on a five-day visit to Moscow, reportedly to discuss economic and trade ties. 
President Nixon first used the expression "Bangladesh" at a White House news conference before leaving on his visit to China. At the time, he told newsmen, "We have not yet made a decision with regard to recognition and should not expect <1 decision prior to the time that I return from China." 
In the joint U.S.-Chinese communique issued in Shanghai on f<'eb. 27, China called on India and Pakistan to "withdraw all their forces to their own respective tPrritories." 
Heports here say that the last of the Indian forces will be with­drawn from Bangladesh by March 12. On March 17, they say, Sheik Mujib will receive Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India at Dacca, her first visit to the new nation. 
ll. S. recognition will be deferred. officials say, until all Indian forces are withdrawn and until the effects of Sheik Mujib's visit to Moscow have been weighed. 
It is also likely, they say, that Nixon and his advisers will await the response of Pakistan's president. Zulfikar Ali Bhutto, to Mrs. Gandhi's recent offer of "unconditional" talks to sub­stitute for the cease-fire. 
Indian diplomats, who point out that India still holds 100,000 Pakistani prisoners, believe that Bhutto is delaying the talks because the return of so many troops might exacerbate strained conditions in his country. 
Wait Until Dark 


Saturday, March 4th. 
7-9-11 Engineering Aud. Sponsored byYoungstown 
Last Grasp presents Member of the Wedding 
from the story by Carson McCullers 
Fri. Carroll Hall 3:30, 7, 9 
Cultural Arts Commission's Cinema '72 presents 


ASHES AND DIAMONDS 
A film by Andrej Wajda 
Saturday & Sunday March 4 & 5 2 and 8 pm at Washington Hall 

Cinema '72
Admission $1 .00 
patrons free 

r-pl_a_y_e_r._P_r_e_se_n_t_Iy_P_Ia_v_a_c_p_la_n_s_t....::o=---c_o_mmission on ~al~l~t~ic~k~e:_t.=:s~a~le~s::·--.!================---=---=======:::; 

8 & 1o pm Washington Hall 'Ne will start on time tonight!

Fund Raising Film Patrons (purple card) Free! Admission $1.50 
London--Britain announced Thursday that the harsh interrogation methods her security forces have used against detainees in Northern Ireland would end. Prime Minister Heath said that "interrogation in depth" would continue in an effort to end the terrorists' "barbaric 
world briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
practices." 
Paris--French officials searching a shrimp boat off Marseilles found almost half a ton of pure herion in bags embedded in concrete in the boat's hull. The jubilant officials called the seizure the biggest ever. The boat's captain, who has a smuggling record, reportedly tried to drown himself but was rescued and revivied. 
Washington--Defense and State Department sources said that the Soviet Union seems to be engaged in a significant program of retiring older medium and intermediate range missiles. The moves were thought to reflect budgetary pressure, a belief among Soviet leaders that they have enough such missiles, or both factors. 
Washington--The National Heart and Lung Institute announced the first use of nuclear energy to power an artificial heart pump in a living animal and the first use in animals of a complete artificial heart. The Institute's director said nuclear powered heart devices might be available for humans by 1980. 
Kennedy calls hearings 
Congress talks amnesty 
by David E. Rosenbaum 
<l"l l!ln New York Times 
Washington, March 2--A Senate subcommittee took a fleeting look this week into the qeustion of amnesty for the men who have evaded the draft or deserted from the armed forces during the war in Indochina. 
The three days of hearings, called by Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D.-Mass., were in­conclusive. and few of the issues raised or positions taken were novel. 
Rut the hearings marked the beginning of what is likely to be a long and emotional battle in Congress over the next few years on a wrenching question that the country will undoubtedly have to deal with eventually. 
Kennedy held the hearings in his capacity as chairman of the . Judiciary Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure. The subcommittee has no authority to consider legislation on amnesty, but it can look into the administrative possibilities involved. 
Officials from the Selective Service system, the Justice Department and the Pentagon 
Gaughran, Ms. Pearce enter law competition 
Hobert J. Gaughran, New the regional competition include Monmouth, N.J., and Marcia two-man teams from the Pearce, Baltimore, Md., will llniversity of Iowa, Indiana represent the University of Notre llniversity, and Washington Dame in regional competition of University of St. Louis. Winners the Interscholastic Mock Law will go on to semi-final com­Office beginning at 12:30 p.m. petition before national winners Saturday (March 4) in the Center are selected April 16 in Los for Continuing Education. Angeles. 
The two third-year students Contest entrants are judged on were selected from Notre Dame interviewing skills necessary for candidates who began professional competence in law preparations for the competition office practice, including last December under the mastery of preventive law direction of their counselor, techniques, human relations Professor Paul R. Moo. Both factors in talking with clients, attended the London Program of counselling, planning, and im­the Law School last year. promptu analysis of client's real 
Other schools participating in problems. 
Hantlet 
A PLANNED HAPPENING 
March 3, 4 at 8:30pm March 5 at 7:30 pm 
Little Theatre, Moreau, St. Mary's 
Tickets $1, free for subscribers 
Information at 284-4141 
told Kennedy that they knew of more than 50,000 men since 1964 who had broken the law by deserting from the military or refusing to be drafted. Of these, fewer than 3,000 have gone to jail. 
The total number of draft evaders is presumably much higher. since there are probably thousands of men who have never registered for the draft and thus never come to the attention of the government. 
Candian officials estimate that there are 50,000 to 70,000 exiles in Canada alone. These men and others in exile elsewhere are subject to prosecution only if they return to the United States. 
l fpholding the position taken by !'resident Nixon in January, the administration officials told Kennedy that the entire question of amnesty should be put off until the war in Inodchina has ended . 
Dr. Curtis W. Tarr, the Director of Selctive Service, declared that to grant amnesty now. while men were still subject to being c1.rafted, would wreck the Selective Service System. 
Maj. Gen. Leo E. Benade, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Personnel Policy. said that "the granting of any amnesty to deserters at this time, whether general or par­ticular. or whether conditional or unconditional, would have a serious, detrimental impact on our armed forces." 
Sen. Hobert Taft Jr., R-Ohio, and Hep. Edward I. Koch, D­N.Y., have introduced legislation that would permit draft resisters to avoid prosecution by volun­teering for two years of alter­native service in some federal social program. Their bills would leave the military the disposition of deserters. 
Neither the Koch bill nor the Taft bill is given a chance of passage this year. 
l* mock convention 
ND Faculty for 
McGovem fonned 
A Notre Dame Faculty for 1\lcGovern Committee has been formed to promote the candidacy of Senator (;eorge McGovern for I'resident of the United States. The Committee. Professors John 
W. llouck. Business Organization and Marketing; Edward Vasta, L<nglish; William T. Liu, ~oci0l.ogy and Anthropology; 1\lichael J. Francis, Government and International Studies; \\illiam D. McGlinn, Physics and \\illiam B. Berry, ElictricaJ l<'ngineering; has announced an information and organization mC'eting to be held on March 10 at Ihe l 1niversity Club from 4:30 to :.::lOpm. 
At this meeting Senator 1\lc<;overn's record and his position on the critical issues of lhe campaign will be available 
-
., ................... . RIVER PARK ........... " ........ . MISHAWAKA AYI. AT 30TH. ACADEMY AWARD ~ONTENDERS In everyone's life there's a SUMMER OF '42 r.;;IR:::"'Ir--:-=:----.1 rrom Warner Broa :=:::--=; AKonney Leoaure Servo<e  
JANE FONDA DONALD SUTHERLAND ~nanalanJ oakula lkl t•l ~ oroduct1on U <0  
Phone 288-8488 for times & directions  

on campus today 
7,9:30, & 10 --movie, birds, badin vintage cinema 
8:00 & 10:00 --movie, gimme shelter, washington hall 
8:30 --play, hamlet, little theatre, moreau, $1 
9:00, 1:00 ..rock concert, ox peddle, smc coffeehouse 

the frosh present One Day Only!! DUSTIN HOFFMAN 
"LITTLE BIG MAN" 
Mon., Mar. 6 

Washington Hall 
3:30, 6, 8:30, 11 :0 Adm. $1 


HELD OVER 2n WEEK!! FINAL DAYS­OPEN 6:45 

FINO OUT YOURSELF WHY EVERYONE'S TALKING ABOUT· 

Also "3 IN THE AITIC" 

Note: If You're a student and over 18 Bring This Ad and Buy Ticket for $1.00 I. D. Required-Valid Thru Mar. 10. Good only Mon. thru Thurs. 

2 PROOFS OF AGE REQUIRED 
WEDNESDAY-TUESDAY March 1 -7 
WlbB 
eiNBY 
no man could keep her down until . 


• 

LOVING 

Letters • • • 
• • . on hair, calenders, the beatles, harvard and hurrahs 
A Hairy Task 

t<:ditor: 
I just came from one of those wonderful lunches in the north dining hall. in the infamous "E" line. The menu was turkey slices over bread with that all-purpose yellow gravy. Not bad except that the most wonderful dish on the menu was the long hair in the center of the s.a.e. (society of automotive engineers) approved gravy. I am telling you this so that you could ask for reform. If only they could list those long hairs on the menu. That way no one would go without their daily minimum requirement of protein ~9. It would be great to read a nwnu with ·•steak au jus with two brunette forearm hairs" or "chuck wagon with grey armpit hairs". Really. this listing of delicacies would spark en­thusiasm for all meals. Maybe the Notre Dame food people have initiated a new fad in cuisine. At least. the hairs seem to be of the ungreasy variety. The ND food guys at least agree with current fashion trends. 
as ever. 
Frank Keres :109 Grace 
The King Knows All 

Editor: 
In the Obst'rvt'r editorial on Wednesday, March 1, it was stated that we need to change "the current Academic Calendar, which presently has us planned to come back in the second week of August." I wondered about the authenticity of this claim, and, seeking confirmation, I decided to contact those who should know when the date was. First I called Academic Affairs Commissioner Fred Giuffrida. who was asleep, but his spokesman referred me to SBVP Orlando Rodriquez. There was no answer at his room. t<:xecutive \'ice-President Fr. .Joyce was out. his secretary didn't know. and rl'ferred me to the Provost. The Provost's secretary didn't know, and suggested the Registrar's Office. There. the secretary referred me to the Office of Dean of Ad­ministration. She <the dean's secretary l didn't know, and claimed it wouldn't be decided until the Academic Council met March 6. The secretary of the Academic Council, located in Fr. Brown's office. when questioned, referred me back again to the Registrar's Office. Hound-and­round we go; where it ends, nobody knows. 
Next. I called the Obst'rvt'r. A member of their editorial staff said that paper had obtained the infomation through the grapevine, and flatly refused to reveal its source. 
As a last alternative, I con­tacted Bob Kersten's campaign headquarters. in hopes of 
manager. who admitted that he 
really didn't know when the 
Academic year would begin, but 
had heard that the probable 
date was Aug. 28, with a 10-day 
Thanksgiving break. 
The point of this letter is that 

all those people in the Ad­
ministration and the Obst'rvt'r 
who profess to be open and 
straight-forward are in fact the 
very ones who are engaged in a 
most fantastic and frantic game 
of run-around and pass-the-buck. 
And the one on campus who is 
supposed to be such a big joke, 
Kersten, is in fact the only one 
who gave me a straight, honest 
answer. 
Sincerely, 
.John Murtaugh 
Move Over Beethoven! 

t<:ditor: 
I am writing this letter in the 

hope that someone who reads it 
will be able to do something to 
correct the situation I am going 
to talk about. 
Everyone knows we have a fine 

selection of music, speech, and 
drama in the Audio-Listening 
Center on the second floor of the 
library. but one very important 
class of music has been obviously 
omitted from this collection. This 
music is in a class all by itself, it 
triggered a decade of transition. 
It was a transition of styles, life, 
looks. beliefs, and much more. 
This music is a unique art form in 
itself. This music played a big 
role in the development of this 
generation. without this music's 
presence. we might be a little 
different than we are. This music 
did influence the world, probably 
more than any music or art form 
ever has. Of course I speak of the 
music of John Lennon, Paul 
McCartney, George Harrison, 
and Bingo Starr. 
Every hundred years or so a 

Beethoven. or Van Gogh come 
along. and why wait two-hundred 
vears torealizethe Beatles too are 
in this class? There is not one 
Beatie record. or even an in­
strumental of their of some of 
their compostions in the library. 
For the reasons I have stated 
above. and many more, this is a 
grevious mistake that should be 
corrected. 
Bud llauser 
218 lloly Cross 
Congrats, John! 

( Tlw following is an open letter to SBP .John Barkett -ed. l 
Dearest John, 
We the undersigned members of the ninth floor Flanner tower constituency, wish to extend our heartfelt congratualtions on your recent yet well deserved ac­ceptance into Harvard Law School. You certainly worked hard for it. We know that we may be tempting fate by incurring the wrath of such an outspoken, fiery. student leader. But at the risk of exposing ourselves to it, we would like to say that the phenomenon, commonly known as King Kersten, <may we be 
protectedfrom his wrath) which is currently sweeping the campus, can be considered nothing less than the end result of or reaction to your sterling record as student body President. Of course, John we kn.9w that you did your best at seeking concessions from the university but sometimes this push. push, push can get a leader down. We would like to close by again expressing our ap­preciation to to the real in­spiration behind this innovative form of student government known as "Oligarchy". 
Yours in Peace, 
(lht• lt'ltt'r was signed by 21 n•sidt•nts from lht' !lth floor of Flannt•r-t'd.l 
Set the Story Straight 
Editor: 
I would like to take this op­portunity to comment on Ann Conway's editorial LAST llllHHAII: John Gaal and the SMC election. My prime concern is to set Miss Conway straight on certain aspects of her editorial which she seems to think are fact. 
First of all, her mention of 40 fraudulent ballots was not fact. The election committee never stated the exact number of such ballots. In fact. the number of fraudulent ballots was nowhere in the vicinity of 40. 
Perhaps if these ballots had been the sole reason for declaring the election invalid. they could have been tossed. However, Miss <'onway neglected to find out the facts by contacting any member of the election committee, and therefore left out the other main reason for the invalidation. That reason was the ballot !:)ox stuffing which occurred. Altogether, the number of fraudulent ballots plus the number of excess ballots made over 10 per cent of the total ballots cast illegaL That certainly seems grounds enough for declaring an election invalid. 
After boggling the first paragraph of her editorial, Miss Conway did a fine job of con­fusing. or "tampering" with the facts in the fifth paragraph. Miss (;orman. the former SBVP whom she mentioned. had been told at I ::lo am that the ballots had not heen counted. It was after that, not before, at 3:00 am<an ungodly hour for phonecalls from reporters> that Mr. Abowd made his call, and was told that the ballots had been counted, which is true. 
llnforunately Miss Conway must have been absent from grade school on the day reading 
comphrension was taught, unless she herself neglected to read the rna nual. The manual does not state that the ballots must be counted in the presence of the committee, but merely "the election committee is in charge of counting ballots ... ", which seems to allow for a delegation, or a concentration(in the form of just one member), of this power. where the idea that represen­tatives of the two parties must be present, only The Prime Mover knows. for nowhere in the procedural manual is that stated. 
Finally, Miss Conway took it upon herself to implicate the t<:lection Committee as being involved in the ballot tampering. As to where the ballots went after the polls were closed, a few more than just the Almighty know. All the ballot boxes were taken to the student government office, where they were im­mediately locked up. Taking further predcautions for security, a girl was stationed outside the office. In fact. so conscientious was this girl that one of the J•:lection Committee members was detained before entering. 
In the future. I sincerely hope that Miss Conway will take it upon herself to find out the facts before she writes an "off the cuff" editorial. It would be in the best interest of Miss Conway, and also those unfortunates who have nothing better to do than read her column. 
John Gaal 
FRANKIE'S 
EVERYDAY DINNER SPECIALS 
Ocean Perch $1.25 1 0 oz. Rib-Eye Steak $1.50 1/2 Broasted Chicken $1.50 
Includes Tureen Soup, Salad, Bread, Butter And Coffee 
• 
Yamaha ISkis • Poles 

• 
Tyrolia 55t100 Bindings 

• 
Plastic ruckle Boots 


$99 
• Installation Regular $172•••••••••• 
BADGER SKI PKC. 
• fiScher 707 Class Skis • Poles 
• 
Marker-EiastlllllCit Binding 

• 
Plastic Buckle Boots 


• Installation 
$16 
Regular $252........ .. 
HOOSIER SKI PKC. 
• Volkl Sapporo Skis 
• 
Look/Nevada Bindings 

• 
Carmon! Comp. Boots 

• 
Poles 

• 
Installation 


$24 9 
Regular $3S3 ........ 
"World's Largest Selection" 

forward response. I talked to H­man. Kersten's camp~n 



Irish are one win from playoffs 
by Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 

Whenever teams from Notre Dame and Michigan State meet, in any sport, the games between the two arch-rivals are usually exciting, rough-and-tumble, no­holds-barred contests. And that seems doubly true when the Irish and Spartans play hockey. 
Last year the clubs met four times. with the Irish winning only once. and it sometimes seemed that they did more fighting and skating. But this weekend, the primary battle will be for playoff positions. 
If the Irish win either one of Friday or Saturday night's 7:45 encounters with State, they can clinch a berth in the WCHA's post season tournament. And, while the Spartans have a playoff spot se\\-n up, they'g like to sweep the four-point series and assure themselves of a third place finish. 
The Spartans, winners of 11 of their la'st 14 league games and currently third in the WCHA with a 14-12 record and 40 title points, should provide tougher op­position for the Irish than State's neighboring institution, the U. of Michigan, did last weekend. 
ND quintet winds up at Dayton 
by Eric Kinkoph 

The Irish basketball team will put the wraps on their 1971-1972 season tomorrow night when they take on the Dayton Flyers in the Dayton Arena in the season finale for both teams. 
Last year, the Irish snuck past the Flyers in the 70-71 season finale in the Convo, 82-83, when Flyer guard AI Bertke came up short on an uncontested eight footer at the buzzer. 
The missed shot cost the U of D 
boys more than the game, since 
the confrontation was billed as 
"must win" game for both teams 
with NCAA tourney hopes. 
The Irish with the win, received 
a bid from the NCAA hierarchy, 
while the Flyers had to settle for 
an NIT spot. 
But things have changed drastically for both teams during the past year, and tomorrow night's battle has only pride at stake. 
The Irish 1!172 NCAA hopes were dashed by the graduation of Austin Carr and the D.C. Boys, and although the Flyers entered the 71-72 season with hopes of extending their string of seven years in a row of post-season competition to eight, their present 12-13 record is a far cry from any kind of prerequisite for the NCAA's or the NIT. 
Dayton coach Don Donaher lost his entire front line through graduation last year, a solid trio that included Ken May, Tom Crosswhite and George Jackson, the top Flyer point getters on the 70-71 team. 
And with only three lettermen returning, a group of rather mediocre guards, Donaher was hard pressed for top talent to mold his 71-72 contingent. 
Rut the fiery Irishman has founded a respectable team with a combination of sophomore talent. a junior non-letterman, and a junior college transfer. 
The sophs are 6-0 guard Don Smith, Ii-I guard Jack Kill and 6-5 forward Mike Sylvester. 
Smith, the leading on scorer in the Flyer freshman team a year ago with a 22 point average, leads the Dayton varsity in point production with a 20.1 scoring average. 
Kill teams up with Smith in the backcourt. and complements the 
Notre Dame thrashed the Wolverines by 7-2and 9-4 scores a week ago and moved into a tie for seventh place in the league standings with a 9-15 record and ~ti title points. 
Notre Dame's playoff hopes received a boost Wednesday night from the U. of Minnesota­Duluth Bulldogs, who deafeated Colorado College 8-5. The Bulldogs and Tigers meet again tonight in the final game of the regular season for both teams. If <'olorado loses, then the Irish will qualify for the playoffs, no 
WCHA 
LEADING SCORERS 
Gms G A Pts 

Palazzari. CC . 26 24 'll 51 Peluso, Denver. . . ... 25 21 2ll 49 McNab, Denv(r.. . . 26 18 29 47 Cahoon, N. Dakota .26 19 24 43 Thompson, MSU ......25 21 22 43 
B. Gagnon, Mich. . . .. 26 23 19 42 Bertsch, CC . . . . . . 26 20 22 42 Crosby, Mich. Tech ... 24 16 25 41 Ledingham, UMD ... 26 19 20 39 Winchester, Wis.. . .. 26 17 22 39 Jarry, Mich. . .......25 II 26 37 
G. Gagnon, MSU ....25 II 25 36 Winograd, CC .. .26 12 24 36 Noble, ND.. . . 22 15 21 36 
GOALTENDERS 

Gms GA Avg. Saves Perkins, Wis 6 12 2.0 207 Makey, Wis... 20.3 64 3.2 588 
Watt, MSU . .. .. 26 87 3.3 846 Kronholm, NO .. 6. 7 25 3.7 217 
..
-------..~-~' 

c;uard John Egart will be making his final Notre Dame appearance 
matter what the results of their series with the Spartans. But, if Colorado wins, Notre Dame must come up with a victory, too. 
"As of now," Irish coach Lefty Smith said Thursday, "we have to at least split this weekend to be sure of getting a playoff spot. Colorado's loss certainly takes a little pressure off, but we're not automatically in by any means." 
Notre Dame looked like a playoff-bound club in their vic­tories over the Wolverines last 
. Friday and Saturday, as Smith was quick to point out. 
"I<:veryone contributed and combined for a very successful weekend." he said. "We did a fine job offensively, scoring 16 goals, and did a good job defensivley, as well. Michigan is a club that can l'Xplode but our defensemen, goalie Mark Kronholm and our forwards did a great job of defending against them." 
State also packs plenty of scoring punch. All-American Don "Zipper" Thompson and Gilles Cagnon are the Spartans. Top point producers, ranking fifth and twelfth in the WCHA 
scoring race with 56 and 44 points, respectively. Thompson 
Saturday night against Dayton. 
Dayton hotshot with an 8.7 scoring mark. 
Mike Sylvester, the second leading scorer on the U of D squad, has an 11.8 scoring average, and an average of 6.4 rebounds per game. 
The lone junior on the Dayton starting five is 6-7 center John Bitter. Bitter is the leading rebounder on the team, grabbing 
10.1 rebounds per game, while chipping in with 9.5 points per contest. 
J. D. Grigsby, a 6-4 junior college transfer from Kilgore 
J .C. in Texas, fills in at the other forward spot, and has been averaging 6.6points per game for Donaher. 
The Flyers also have pretty good depth on the bench, with lettermen and co-captain guards Hex Gardecki and Pa Murnan, and li-8 center-forward John Von Lehman ready to answer the call if needed. 
The Irish are expected to go with Gary Novak, Tom O'Mara, Willie Townsend, John Egart, 
(Photo by Joe Raymonc!) 
and Don Silinski in their final 
outing. 
Novak, the most consistenf performer of the year for "the Digger", leads the Irish in scoring and rebounding with 19.6 and 10.6 averages respectively. 
Tommy "0" follows the "Goose" in Irish scoring parade with an average of 16.7 points per game. -Willie T., Egart and Silinski are scoring at 9.3, 6.3 and 6.1 clips respectively. 
The Flyers have at least kept things interesting for UD fans this season. 
Twelve of the 25 Flyer contests have been decided by less than five points, including four two point decisions and single one­pointer. 
The reason for the close games is reflected in the overall Flyer offensive and defensive statistics. The Flyer "0" averages 71.!\ points per game, while the Flyer "D" has been allowing 73.3. 
The all-time ND-UD record 
stands even at 4-4. 
Came time is 8:30. 

Tlw Irish will battle the Spartans this weekend with a spot in the \\'CIJA tJlayoffs as the purse. Notre Dame's John Campbell and l\1khigan's "Punch" Cartier engaged in this scuffle last weekend at 
tlw ACC. has pumped in 28 goals this season and Gagnon has added 12. Wings Mark Calder (25 goals, -tO pointsl and Michel Chaurest <~I goals, 37 points l are also potent scoring threats. At the opposite end of the rink, 
the Spartans are stingy about giving up goals. Smith calls MSU's netminder, Jim Watt, 
"one of the best goalies in the league".Wattstarredagainstthe Irish earlier this year in East 1 ,ansing, stopping 71 of 74 shots as State trimmed Notre Dame by 8-2 and 4-1 margins. 
But the Irish were hurtin_g

physically in that series as both Ian Williams and John Campbell were bothered by injuries, and Notre Dame's play was ad­versely affected. 
ND approves NCAA Frosh ruling 

i'<otre Dame's Athletic Board announced laiP Thursday that they had ratified lhl' NCAA's ruling on freshmen eligibility. 1\t•ginning next year. freshmen will be able to compete for Notre I>anw on the Varsitv level in both football and basketball. !\lore details foriheoming on Monday. 
ND 's on the road again 

Except for the Notre Dame hockey team, all other Irish winter sports squads will be on the road this weekend. 
· The Irish trackmen will par­ticipate in the IC4A Indoor Championships at Princeton University Friday and Saturday. Among the leading NO entries are high hurdler Tom McMannon and freshman shot put ace Greg Cortina. 
McMannon, with a nifty 7.2 60­yard high hurdles time to his credit this year, won the IC4A outdoor 120 yard high hurdles title last spring 03.9). Tom McMannon, Mike's brother will compete in the triple jump while just recovering from a month­long illness. Mike, who jumped -18-9 last week, was third in the IC4A outdoor finale with a 48-8lf2 mark last spring. 
Cortina, with a nifty 60-10 shot effort to his credit, will be joined by freshman sprinter Eric 
Irish vs. Spartans 
Don't just be a fan Be a Fanatic! 
Fri./Sat. -Sec. 6 
Tickets $1, on sale at Gate 10, ACC 
(Photo by Joe Raymond) This weekend, the Spartans will have to overcome the injury jinx. Their top defenseman Bob Boyd, who's as handy with his fists as he is with a hockey stick, will be sidelined with a separated shoulder and winger Bob 
Michelutti will also be out of action because of a broken leg. The injured list may grow on both sides before the weekend is over, however. "State is a very physical club," Smith com-men ted. "I've always felt that they're as physical as anyone in the league. They're a rough, tough group of hockey players." 
It will undoubtedly be a rough, tough series for Notre Dame, but the Irish figure to be equal to the challenge. 
· 
Penick, weightman Elio Polselli and middle distance runner Mike Gahagan. 
The Irish swimmers, now 7-5 following two setbacks last weekend, conclude their season at the 5th annual Motor City Invitational in Detroit Friday and Saturday. Defending champion · Eastern Michigan and Central Michigan head the field. 
Notre Dame's wrestlers (11-3) finish their season at Marquette on Saturday. Freshman heavyweight Mike Fanning and 177-pounder Rich Komar both qualified for the NCAA finals at Maryland, March 11-12 following regional competition at Cin­cinnati last weekend. Fanning won the heavyweight division and is now 23-o-1 while Komar was runnerup at 177. 
The Irish fencers, with a lofty 14-2 ledger, compete at Case­Western Reserve in Cleveland Friday and Buffalo Saturday. 
.. 

• 
Wants halls to decide p_arietals 
CLASSIFIED ADS

Barlow calls for autonomy 
Saint Mary's Student Body President Kathy Barlow an­nounced Wednesday that. she would present a proposal calling for hall jurisdiction of visitation policy to the SMC Board of Trustees at their meeting on March 12. 
The proposal, "based on the philosophy of self-determination as the right of each student " would _8ive each hall the power to determine its own parietal hours and procedures. 
Though this proposal has passed through the Saint Mary's Student Assembly, Student Af fairs Committee, and Student Affairs Council, acting President Sr. M. Alma vetoed it last November. 
Ms. Barlow also released a statement reacting to the final merger negotiations breakdown. 
Lauding "student energy" this past December as an attempt to establish "credibility and openness'', m the merger negotiations she blasted both the Notre Dame and St. Mary's administrations for their failure to cooperate effectively. 
"Without changes in the 

philosophies and personnel in­
volved in the negotiations on the 
part of both institutions, the 
promise of unification made to 
the students is merely a sham," 
she said. 
Ms. Barlow went on to add that 
"contingency planning" for Saint 
Mary's should have been started 
during the negotiations. 
"It is imperative that im­mediate concern must be given to both the maintenance of St. Mary's as an independent in­stitution and to the fulfilling of obligations to all present students." 
Londonderry report released 
by Bt>rnard Weinruab <cl 1972 New York Times 

Coleraine, Northern Ireland, March 2--A Northern Ireland medical officer testified today that six of the 13 men killed by British paratroopers in Lon­donberry on January 30 had been carrying weapons. 
The witness, Dr. John Martin, scientific officer of the depart­ment of Industrial and Forensic Science, said hand swabs and clothing test indicated five other victims had not handled any firearms. Tests on two proved conclusive. Martin said. 
Today's testimony at the of­ficial British Inquiry into the incident pointed up the conflict and uncertainty about the Lon­donberry tragedy. The army has insisted that paratroopers fired only at gunmen or nail bombers who attacked soldiers during the mass civil rights march. The Catholic community in Lon­donberry maintains that the army's attack was unprovoked. 
Martin's testimony now makes clear that five -and possibly more -of the Roman Catholic victims had neither fired weapons nor tossed bombs. 

So far evidence has been given that traces of gelinite --the ex­plosive in nail bombs --was found on '>nly one of the 13 dead. He was identified as 17-year old Gerald Donaghy, found with four nail bombs in his pocket. 
Martin said young Donaghy was one of the two men on whom paraffin tests were inconclusive. This would assure that at least five of the victims were free of guns or nail bombs. 
After strong cross-examination by J.D. McSparran, an attorney for families of 12 of the 13 dead, Martin conceded that the positive paraffin tests on two of the vic­tims could have resulted from the lead fragments of a'!Y_bu11ets. 
McSparran asked: "The large particles found on Michael Kelly and Michael McDaid -these could have been fragmented bullets?" 
Martin replied. "It could, 

although the probability was not very high." "But it's a possibility?" McSparran questioned. "Hardly more than a possibility," came the reply. 
Martin testified that the positive tests on the six victims showed minute lead particles on their hands, similar to particles produced by gases discharged from a firwearm. 
McSparran asked: "In the case of these persons that are positive there is a suspicion that they may have been exposed bo explosive gases?" 
Martin replied: "Yes. I have said there is a strong suspicion. I think that is a fair assessment." However, under further questioning the doctor agreed that particles of lead could get on a perso ·'s clothing or hands in a number of ways. He said this might include handling a weapon that had been previously or recently fired, standing near a 
weapon  being  discharged,  or  
lying  near  someone  firing  a  
weapon.  

FINAL NOTICE 
Our annual clearance is in the final days... 
you can still save as much as onehalf on 
sweaters, dress shirts, body shirts, suits 
and sportcoats and more. Stop in...browse 
around, we've got the apparel you want, 
at the price you want to pay, and terms 
better than you expect... 
PAY NEXT SUMMER* WITH NO SERVICE CHARGE 
Buy your apparel now, wear and enjoy it now, yet pay 'l:r next June, 11:~ next July and lf3 next August. We never add a service charge or ~ntcrest of any kind! 


FOR RENT NOTICES F urnishcd 2 Bedroom house tor 
-------·-----­
Parts and Accessories for lm. ilfter 5 pm. 
rent in Roseland. Call 272-6086, 
ported Cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North WANTED 
(Roseland} 272·7187. 
·------­
DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and tiloloqy. Include stamped en. 
POETRY WANTED for An· 
Within Europe. Leave anytime velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. 
lrorn NY Chicago. Flight Center Olympic Boulevard, Los Angles, 
227 North Randall, Madison, WI California 90021. 
53705. (608} 263-3131. 
---·-------­
New 7th and 9th grade classical· living together, not married, to 
Sociology Major needs couples 
christian school needs English, answer questionnaire. Please call 
Latin, Math and Science teachers. 734 1926. 
Since salaries will be small the first year, we're looking for l~eed ride to Cincinnati or Dayton 
qraduate students (perferably area March 3. Call 4788 or 4081. 
with Masters} to work parf.fime . ·---------­
while at Notre Dame. Send vita, Need Ride To Detroit Fri. Mar. 3. 
references, etc. to Magdalen Call PAUL 8428. 
School. P.O. Box 1225, South Bend, 
46624. 2 quys desperately need ride to Milwaukee this Friday, March 3. 
WILD FLICK. Don't miss Can leave anytime after 12 noon. 
campus thriller of year. WAIT Call LARRY or PAUL 8276. 
UNTIL DARK. Sponsored by Youngstown Club. Sat. Mar. 4th NEED TWO NON·BLEACHER 
Enqineering 7 -9 ·11. SEAT TICKETS TO MANCINI CONCERT. 3663. 
HEY! Edge City, St. Mary's -· --------­
Coffeehouse LIVES. Every 1 voluptuous blondes need 
Sunday night, 8·12. Best local Lauderdale housing March 
talent. good coffee. Just a n ...onward? Call 4292 or 4368. 
quarter. 
CHIMES accepting poetry, fie· 8852. 
f~ ide to Dayton for Friday . 8840 or 
lion. essays, graphics. Submit to 
D. Kerr 533 Mccandless, R. Need Ride to U. of Ill. Mar. 3 Call 
Carnpell 813 Grace, T. Knoles.P. 4383. 
Smith 334 Dillon. 
-----·---­
---·--------­
Need it typed tonite? We will do for 15 page paper in exchange for 
Law Student desires female typist 
typing AT ANY TIME for Mtenfion, love, and affection. 272­
reasonable prices. Call ABC 3622. 
Enterprises at 8256 (CHIP} or 6963 
(MIKE}. Wanted: Mature, intelligent participants for group sexual 
Student Union Buses to O'Hare r·ncounter. Serious replies only . 
March 22. NO to O'Hare 1:30pm. Confidential Interviews by mail. 
April 4 O'Hare to ND 8 pm. Box 171 ND Station 
Tickets on sale at the lst Bank Campus travel office $5 one.way. PERSONALS 
All Sales Final. 
NASSAU TRIP MARCH 24·31. 8 This is fun but expensive. Let's 
Secret Adm irerer (Admirer}: 
days and 7 nights with quad ac­11l!'el. 
rorn. Air fare and Hotel may be Purchased Seperately. LimitedR.S.V.P. We wouldn't miss it for 
number of seats available.
t11e world!!! John. Don, Jutes, 
Tickets on Sate at Student UnionBob, Mikey and Billy. 
Ticket office. $202 inclusive. Questions, Call: 7757.
Britto, Happy 21st Wrench, Gram, YuL Lazarus, The 
Members Of The Wedding · JulieGeneral. Zero, and Noshitsky. 
Harris Last Grasp Carroll Hall . Fri. 3:30, 7, 9
To Sue, Beth, Mary Lou, An· nabelle, Lucille, Marilyn, 
FOR SALEMelanie, Chris, and Marlene Thank you for my Suprise Bir· 
Golf cart for sale or rent. Callthday Party 
JIM 8906.
Yours in Christ John 
MG B '66 Hard & Soft top, ex. reltcnt engine. 234·2376 . 
.John John, Mike, Neil 
-·-------­
3 EOE, AF, C, RC? Next time you For Sale: 1953 purple bus. $75 or want to catch the fire, let us drive! 
!Jest offer by Wednesday, MarchCushioned console??? 
B. Call Crew Club C·O Steve
Kathy Kathy Buccini 1076. 
-·---------­
Creep 
For Sale: 1956 Oldsmobile 
I was just too much for you to 
Holiday. Call 8098, DAN.
handle PANGBORN'S "CONCEITED" 
Stuffed chairs super cheap;FLAME mandolin Excellent condition; Cot; 1966 Sunbeam low price.
Von, 
Call 2590482.
It hasn't been Funky, But it's been real. 
Enqaqement Rings, Watches
Munchkin TremPndous Savings, Complete line. Call TOM 3575. 
''wives can be lovers, too" apparently! 
PANASONIC AM·FM Stereo Receiver and Speakers,
Good luck to all tigers, 
GARRARD SL95·B turntable with those seeking Mr. Right. 
base,dustcover EMPIRE 888VEX Judas' fritnd and prom 
cartridge and matching preamp. 9 mos. old. BEAUTIFUL CONchairmans. 
DITtON. $310.00 new. MZ 
SACRIFICE $160.00. Call KEN 8633. 
LOST AND FOUND 
I ost ·. one addressed envelope roqtail"ing money and negatives. Somewhere near Washington Hilll. last TI1Ursday evening. Just drop if in the mail, because the 
Words lda 2da 3da 4da 5da ,lddress is right. Thanks. 
l-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 ll-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 
Lost· l PRINCIPLES OF 
16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 
MANAGEMENT BOOK IN 
21·25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 
O'SHAG HALL. CALL BOB 8406. 
26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31·35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 
Lost: Blue and gold knit scarf. 
36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 
Call TOM 1437. Reward. 
41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 
Lost Aluminum film cannister containing 2 rolls of film . very important! Call 1466 or 1465. 







