Here are the ideas you need to help improve the world. 

The greatest personal library ofgreat writings ever assembled...GREAT BOOKS. 
Granted, the world is not in good shape. Freud still have great relevance for today. every one of the thousands of topics and 
War, pollution, poverty, simple social And that's what the Great Books are all subtopics within the Great Books. 
justice ... the problems are all around us. about! They contain just about every key idea In minutes, the Syntopicon enables you to 
And today, everyone seems to have pat, conceived by Western man over the past look up any idea in the Great Books and find simple solutions to very complicated problems. 3000 years. The Great Books are published in what each of these great thinkers thought Problem is, most of these solutions are collaboration with the University of Chicago, about it. more simplistic than simple. Meanwhile, the by Encyclopaedia Britannica. A set of 54 problems remain. sturdily bound volumes containing 443 master A wealth of knowledge 
What more can you do about these works by 74 of the greatest geniuses who 
for you to use
problems? How can you, personally, begin to ever lived. attack them? Paradoxical as it may sound, As you begin to absorb some of these great you can move ahead by ideas, you'll find it may change many of your looking back. The $1,000,000 reactions to the world around you. You'll find 
Because these problems are yourself re-thinking some of your original 

Syntopicon included 
not new; they've been around opinions on war, ecology, justice, opportunity 
as long as man has been around. With the Great Books (and -all the problems confronting the world today. 
It's just that they're intensified availabl!! only with Great You'll find yourself referring back through 
by the surge of population Books) is a unique reference the Syntopicon to that wealth of ideas in an 
growth and the speed-up of work called the Syntopicon. An instant-double-checking your original 
social change. amazing index, it took some reaction with your considered reaction. 
Unless you're one of the 8 years and cost some $1,000,000 Ifyou really want to help change the world, minority that feels the past is all just to write! and change your life in the process-if you're dead matter, you'lllikely Unlike a dictionary that not afraid to have your ideas challenged-look agree that the great ideas of defines words or a reference book into the Great Books. Not incidentally, you'll such thinkers as Plato, Homer, that synopsizes facts, the find there a lifetime of reading for pleasure Cervantes, Tolstoy, Aristotle and Syntopicon indexes ideas-as well as stimulation. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · MAIL CARD TODAY · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 

FREE DAAWING ACADEMIC COMMUNITY Register now. You may 

\NIN 
a magnificent 54-volume set of 
GREAT BOOKS 
Register now-this free drawing does not obligate you in any way, and you need not be present to win. Winners will be notified by phone. The drawing is being held to help publicize the Great Books and the revolutionary Syntopicon which indexes the great ideas of 74 of the world's greatest authors, covering 443 major works of the past 30 centuries. 
PLEASE PRINT (fill in all spaces) 
Name Age 
Local Address 
City County 
State Zip Tel. No. 
Occupation 
If Student, Name of School Major Field Signature 
Only One Entry Per Family Permitted 
•

Card must be completed in full to be eligible. If your name is not drawn for above award, we will notify you and explain how you can acquire a Free Copy of a fascinating Booklet which describes the Great Books. 
G-734 NM-5 




FREE DAAWING 
To help publicize in this community the greatest personal collection of great ideas ever assembled ... 
See other side for details. 
Mail attached card to enter. 
FIRST CLASS PERMIT NO. 16850 CHICAGO, ILL. 

Shriver speaks here tomorrow 

See story, p.2 

On The Inside 
Campus happenings ... pg 6 Chess pairings...pg 7 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Tuesday, October 10, 1972

Vol. VII No. 23 
Giuffrida, Ackerman head SLC 
In its initial action of the year, the Student Life Council unanimously elected Fred Guiffrida as chairman for 1972-73. Dr. Robert Ackerman, director of stmlent activities, was also unanimously elected to serve as the Council's Vice-Chairman. 
After the meeting, Guiffrida promptly announced his resignation from the editorial board of the Observer. Guiffrida held the position as editorial editor of the paper. 
The SLC likewise established four general areas in which they intended to work this year: 1. possibilities of alternative life syles in the residence halls; 2. what action the University will take if the age of majority is moved to 18; 3. the problems of over-crowded housing; and 4. which halls will be changed to female residence dormitories for next year. 
Election of the Chairman 
Nominations for the post of chairman also went to Floyd Kezele and Professor John Uhran. Both however withdrew the nominations. Guiffrida's nomination then prompted his election. 
The situation was similar in the election of the Vice-Chairman. Sister John Miriam Jones also withdrew her nomination. She felt that she lacked the experience necessary for the post. 
Faccenda Opens Session 
Dr. Phillip Faccenda, Vice President for Student Affairs, who by ad hoc action opened the meeting, defined the SLC's function. He offered that the SLC was to "legislate in that area of responsibility which is assigned to the office of the Vice President of Student Affairs." 
He further claimed that the Student Life Council needed action this year to prove to the university community that something does go on at Student Life Council meetings. 
Badin and Walsh Representation 
Discussion then moved to the floor where the 
question of representation from Badin and Walsh 
Halls was pursued. Council members felt that in 
this year's issues the contribution from such a 
representativee would be extremely valuable. 
The SLC therefore adopted a motion to the Steering Committee to study the possibilities for such representation on the -body. 
Steering Committee Elected 
The Steering Committee, which sets the agenda for SLC meetings, is comprised of one student, faculty member, and Administration represen­tative. This year's body elected Floyd Kezele; Prof. · Fred Syburg, Assistant Director of the ND-SMC , Theatre; and Leslie Foschio, Assistant Dean of the . Law School. 

Further floor discussion prompted more topics which the SLC will consider this year. Included in these were coed housing, renovation of LaFortune, student initiated enterprise on campus, and university initiated rent control for off-campus students. 
On the question of LaFortune renovation, Fac­cenda noted that he alrezdy has a committee looking into the matter. For SLC purposes, he hoped that the body would look into more areas concerning the use of the facility. They hope to 
Fred Guiffrida and Fr. Riehle lead the discussion at the SLC meeting. Fred resigned his Observer position after the meeting. 
discuss the 24 hour opening proposition and the question of what should be done with the center. Faccenda noted that the idea of massive ap­propriations should also be debated. 
Kersten Unseated 
The SLC also approved the seating of Dennis Etienne <H-Man) in Student Government's ex­officeo seat on the body. He will replace King R. Calhoun Kersten who holds the seat in his position as Student Body President. 
Kersten submitted that he could not hold the seat because he had a French class at the same time and promptly departed to take a French test. 




Academic Council studies 
•

Faculty Manual revs1ons 

Fred Guiffrida was elected chairman of the SLC at yesterday's meeting. 
The University of Notre Dame Academic Council has received recommendations from its steering committee for revising the Faculty Manual, originally adopted in 1967. 
The steering committee draft revision came after it studied chal!ges suggested by the Faculty Senate, colleges, departments and individuals. Materials distributed to Council members included, in ad­dition to the Committee draft, copies of all suggestions submitted, including a couple of completely revised texts of the manual. The Council voted to study the material before deciding on a procedure for tile next three meetings, which have been reserved for discussion of Manual revision. 
The Council also: 
--Deferred a decision on whether or not professional staff members of Psychological Ser­vices ought to have status on the University's teaching and research faculty until the matter could be discussed in the context of Faculty Manual revision. 
Phys ed expansion? 
--Received for study a report from a committee which considered the physical educ~tion requirements for freshmen. The report recom­mends that "the present physical education requirements for freshmen be maintained with the 
hope that still further diversification of program activities may be developed" and that women undergraduates be incorporated directly into the existing program. 
~-Extended the two-year experimental ap­pom~ment of seven ~?tudents to the Council through the hfe of the Faculty Manual revision discussion. It was pointed out that, although review of the ex­periment was scheduled for this fall, revision of the manual might resolve the question. 


Committee members 
Announced a Committee on the Course of Study which will discuss the cluster of issues relating to the question of what the organizing principle of undergraduate education at Notre Dame should be. Members of the committee are Dean Frederick Crosson, chairman; Dr. William Burke, assistant provost, secretary; Dr. David Appel, assistant professor of marketing; Antonio Colacino, second­year law student; Dr. Donald Costello, professor of English; Dr. Dennis Dugan, associate professor of economics; Dr. John Kozak, assistant professor of chemistry; Dr. Stuart McComas, professor or aerospace and mechanical engineering; Dr. Vaughn McKin, associate professor of philosophy· Dr..John. Mihelich, professor of physics; John Ring', semor m Arts and Letters' preprofessional program, and David Sparks, director of University Libraries. 


the observer Tuesday, October 10, 1972 ~ 


warld briefs 
<c> 1!172 New York Times 
Washington -TV viewers are glimpsing a new, tougher George McGovern as the Democratic presidential campaign heads into its final month. In the latest wave of political commercials now getting network exposure, the South Dakota senator criticizes President Nixon on several fronts and speaks out bluntly on his own defense on sensitive issues like welfare and radicalism. 
Paris -Presidential Adviser Henry A. Kissinger and his deputy, Maj. Gen. Alexander Haig, met with North Vietnamese negotiators Monday in Paris for the second consecutive day, the United States Embassy reported. Mter the talks, the two men will fly to Washington to report to the President. 
Istanbul -Turkish and American officials engaged in the fight against illegal narcotics believe it will take considerable time ­estimates range from 1 to 3years-before Turkey's ban on the growing of opium poppies can markedly reduce the amounts of heroin smuggled into this country. Meanwhile, United States Law En­forcement and Intelligence Agencies are striving to prevent narcotics smugglers·from repl~cing their eventual losses. 
London -The bank rate, which for 270 years has been the peg for monetary policy and interest rates in Britain, was abolished by An­thony Barber, the Chancellor of the Exchequer. In its place will be a fluctuating rate tied to the average discout rate for treasury bills that will no longer signal the treasury's desire to expand or contract the supply of money. 
an campu• taday 
9:00 a.m. -5:00 p.m. --information, peace­corps, vista, memorial library 
7:00 p.m. --nixon youth rally, 100 north michigan ave., south bend 
7:30 p.m. --lecture, herman de bose, ex­periences in kenya, black c.ultural arts center, Iafortune 
8:00 & 10:00 p.m.--film, johnny got his gun, engineering auditorium, $1.00 
7:00 p.m. --meeting, mecha, basement Iafortune 


at nd-•mc 

Shriver expected to make major policy statement here 
Sargent Shriver, the Democratic vice presidential nominee, will speak atl:30 pm<EST> Wednesday <October II) in Stepan Center at the University of Notre Dame. 
The campaign speech is a result of an invitation extended to presidential and vice presidential candidates of both parties by Notre Dame's president, Fr. Theodore' 
M. Hesburgh to present their views to Notre Dame's student body, most of whom are newly en­franchised. 
Hesburgh will introduce the <'andidate, whose association with the University predates his career in public service. As general manager of Chicago's Mer­chandise Mart, Shriver joined the university's Advisory council for the College of Business Ad­ministration in 1953, where he served for 14 years. 
Three months after his ap­pointment in March, 1961, to head up the newly established Peace Corps under President Kennedy, Shriver spoke at Notre Dame's 
Fr. Hesburgh conferred the Laetare Medal on Shriver in June, 1968, while Shriver was serving as the American Ambassador to France. The medal symbolized Shriver's "concern for those less fortunate." 
NOTRE DAME-ST; MARYS THEATRE presents 

THE LION IN WINTER 
James Goldman's witty, intelligent comedy. O'Laughlin Auditorium St. Mary's Campus October 6, 7, 12, 13, 14 at 8:30p.m. Students $1.50 Phone Reservations 284-4176 (Season subscriptions still available -5 plays $6.50) 
Commencement and received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree. 
He used this occasion to announce the first agreement negoitiated by the Peace . Corps with any university, under which Notre Dame would be the site for the training of volunteers to work in rural development in Chile. 
Shortly after adding the Office of Economic Opportunity to his Peace Corps responsibilities, 
.... ..... . .... ...... . ........ . 
:  : : :· •• : •• :: ::: .. : 0 •• ••  
0 •  ••••• • • .... • • .. • •• • • 0 0 ••••••••••••  

••••• 0 0 0 0 •• 0 ••••••••••• 
Shriver was again at a Notre Dame podium. accepting the 1965 Patriotism Award, given annually by the Notre Dame Senior Class. 
In 1968, the University conferred upon Shriver the Laetare Medal, generally regarded as the most significant annual award given to Catholics in the United States. llesburgh made the presentation in June in Paris, where Shriver was serving as American Ambassador 
The Observer is published dallyduring the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
to France. The award citation noted the recipient's "concern for those less fortunate... whether disadvantaged fellow citizens or peoples of far-off and un­derdeveloped nations." 
Third District Congressman John Brademas 'm., Ind.), a close friend of the vice presidential candidate, is expected to be on the platform with him. From South Bend, Shriver will fly to Gary, Ind., for' a campaign stop. 
TRAVEL BUREAU "ON CAMPUS"-BADIN HALL 
*Airline Reservations *Complete Domestic and Foreign Services *Representative for dl airlines *No Additional Cost 
"Oriented to youth Programs" 


FIRST BANK & TRUST TRAVEL 
Phone : 283-7080 

Tuesday, October 10, 1972 the observer 
Kovatch upgrades SMC security 
ministration priorities this year, as  
evidenced  by  the  self-protection  
and first aid courses taught to the  
RA 's,  the  posting  of  bulletins  
concerning  bike  regulations  and  
hitchhiking,  and  the  policy  on  
hitchhiking  to  be outlined in the  
forthcoming  Student  Handbook.  
Both  Kovatch  and  Mulaney  
warned the students against hit­ 
chhiking and urged them  not  to  
accept rides from strangers.  
"If  any  incidents  do  occur,  
students should  not  be afraid  to  
.report  them  immediately,"  
Mulaney  advised.  She  stressed  
that such reports would be in the  
community  interest,  and  that  
New security chief Anthony Kovatch has drawn praise for his part in making this year's St. Mary's campus security "better than ever."  confidences would be maintained. Kovatch also reminded bicyclists of the college's bicycle regulations. "Bicyclists are to use the south path, not the north path <which is reserved for pedestrians l or the  
road.  Even  with  lights  and  
reflectors, it's still sometimes hard  
campus. Kovatch also hopes to expand the security force, subject to approval of the administration. "It's in the works, but the financial considerations have to be resolved first," he said. The present force consists of eight guards, plus Kovatch. Two persons work the day shift, two  work the four-to-midnight shift, security office at night, as no one is and three work the night shift. · doing this now. This would Kovatch emphasized that each eliminate the need for calls to go shift is continually on the move, through Notre Dame. locking and checking buildings, Although no bicycle thefts have patrolling the campus, and in 'yet been reported this year, general keeping a watch on the Kovatch plans a campus-wide campus. If more personnel serial number registration so that is.hired, Kovatch stipulated that South Bend, Niles, Roseland, and they would man the phones in the Notre Dame police can be notified  in the event of a theft. "We haven't experienced any major problems so far this year," continued Kovatch, "outside of the fellow who harassed a few girls." He added that he foresees no. difficulties if students cooperate by contributing their own measure of responsibility. Safety is high on the list of ad- for a driver to spot someone on a bicycle," he said. Kovatch views the function of campus security as protecting the students, faculty, and staff of the .college, and restricting outsiders from access to the campus. "With the help of students, we'll try to do our best," Kovatch concluded.  





Budget committee releases recommendations 
by David Rust others of the government's administrative costs (salaries for over by the University to the securing passage for the Finance Observer Staff Reporter executvie circle believe, the new a secretary and bookkeeper-none student government. Committee's '72-73 budget 
This year's total should fall proposal. Both are strongly behind student government constitution is of the government's officers are salaried-phone bills, advertising, within the $83,000 range, reports its safe and faithful acceptance by Setting a total spending ceiling of adopted by the end of the week, the 
$79,000, Student Government budget will by voted on by the a contingency fund), $43,500 to the Treasurer Marget, who announces whatever legislative body should that the approximately $4000 left have the responsibility to say yes
Treasurer and Finance Committee constitutionally proposed Board of Student Union, and approximately unspent will be applied to the
Chairman Mike Marget released Commissioners, the Boards consist $21,000 divided between twenty­or no to the proposals.
remaining debt of that amount left "I feel it should be adopted as
Sunday his recommendations for of the student body president and two carefully selected campus organizations and causes. over from the 1970-71 term. is," says Marget, "and I'll gothis year's student government vice-president, the Hall Presidents Seven of these are receiving Another $5000 of the debt from that before the Board (of Com­
budget. Council .chairman and the six year was paid last year. missioners) to ask them to do justHearings began in Marget's student members of the Student $1000 or more. The biggest money­
committee Oct. 2 and almost 40 Life Council. getters are the Hall Life Fund, that." campus organizations petitioned receiving $4250, a sum which the No problem in passage Treasurer Marget, incidentally, Committee hopes to again be plans to appoint his assistant
l"inancial aid, supporting their 
Thrt'P innovations in machinery matched by the Administration Both Marget and Provost Treasurer within the very nearclaims with financial statements of 
last year, during the seven-hour and administered by a hall life Etienne see not much difficulty in future. committee for the purpose of
session. 
The Treasurer's new budget 
"establishment and maintenance

The committee met at different introduces three innovations to the
times during the rest of the week, of a comfortable level of life in the 
Priorities co111mittee
fiscal machinery of Notre Dame's
hammering out the final document residence halls"; and the Hall
student government. One is the
during the weekend. Grant Program, with $3250, con­
budget's final form itself
Marget's budget now goes to the sisting of the 50 cent per resident
(published in its entirety on page 5 

forms four task force$ 
student government's legislative discussed earlier.
of this issue l, including the arm for amendment and passage. 
rationale for each allocation, and a Four task forces have been ap­other task forces will be formed toIf. as Marget, acting Student 
short statement on the philosophy Other Monies pointed by the University of Notre Pxamine a variety of issues in lateProvost Dennis Etienne adn the 
behind the givings-away. Dame's Committee on University November, Rev. James T. Burt­Marget points out that previous Priorities. chaell. C .S.C., provost of the
Nov. voting 
years' budgets were restricted to Others winning large amounts in The task forces will study four llniversity and chairman of the columns of figures detailing only to the Committee's recom­issues: research as related to Committee. said. where and how much moneywas mendations are: the Scholastic's Father Burtchaell also said 
instruction: the campus plant and

procedures 
going, and not why. Course Evaluation Book project facilities: academic disciplines the Committee will shortly iss1
<$2500, or half the estimated costl; 

His second newly-introduced taught at Notre Dame, and student public appeal to five University
the New Frontier Scholastic

are outlined concept concerns the govern­t>nrollment. constituencies--faculty, students, 
ment's traditional subsidization of Society and the Society of the Three members of the Com­administration, alumni andby Mandt' Pytynia 
Ujamma (in aggregate, $2500);

the Hall President's Council in mittee will serve on each task I rustees--soliciting suggestions as
Obst>n·t'r Staff Reporter support of its annual An Tostal MECHA ($1500); the International force. to be joined by other to how best it could approach its weekend. Rather than supplying Students Organization ($1000); and members co-opted from the task. The provost added that the
Out of state students that are of radio station WSND ($1000).
the necessary $2000 -2500 to the University community. The Committee has no present plans tovoting age should take note that HPC, Marget's budget would allot Marget and his committee composition of the four task forces conduct public meetings. but tasksome states do not allow absentee sympathetically reject petitions
50 cents per resident to the is expected to be announced within forces mav choose to holdballoting, and that this requires the residence hall treasuries, leaving for financial aid in the carefully two weeks. It is anticipated that hearings. · 
students to register in the state of them approximately $3250 and the written budget proposal document, Indiana. option of using the sum as they reasoning that, with the tightne$
These states not allowing ab­wish, in support of An Tostal and of government funds, those funds 

'Speak-easy'_ athmosphere 
sentee balloting are Alabama, any other hall improvements or cannot be used in support either of 
Iowa. Louisiana,New Jersey, and organizations and causes· that
service projects they wish to
Pennsylvania. Students from sponsor through the HPC. should be supported through the hightlights Homecoming
these five states should go to the Mardi Gras Charity Chest, or
Marget's third proposal calls for
City and County Building on 
each organization allowed whose functions, aims and goals do foot chandelier suspended from the LaFayette Street in South Bend to government monies to apply to the not include as primary the idea of by Art Ferranti ceiling and a bath tub filled with a
register to vote. The deadline for service to the student community
office of the Treasurer each time -dubious liquid will also beregistration is today, Tuesday, money is needed for any particular in general. or whose purposes After a sellout •of 530 bids, the feat1 red. 
October 10. The residency 
purpose. The Treasurer would <such as athletic, alumni or public details of homecoming prohibition Br If-rages will cascade from tworequirements for Indiana is sixty then proceed to write its check out relations l fall under the category party for this Friday night were foun a ns and to add to the speak­
days. and this period of time will 
directly to the company, and not to of Universit; business or interest. announced by the party com-easy -basement atmosphere, blue
be accounted for by most students Marget 1 eports from the
the organization. mittee. With decorations ranging lights will be utilized. Besides the 
in time for election. 
Treasurer Marget hopes this will Treasurer's office that no word of from two fake phone booths as dancing and food, photographs willAccording to Pam Sayad, a legal 
cut down on waste and fiscal protest has been received from entrances to two 1930 vintage be tc.ken by Jim Hunt for a nominal
counselor at Notre Dame's Legal rejected petitioners. 
irresponsibility, such as demon­touring cars to give the impression fee of couples by the touring carsAid Office, those students who can strated by some of the 40-odd of a prohibition speak-easy, the with a Tommy-gun cradled in the vote by absentee should write to organizations' financial hash at Stepan Center will feature "mobster" or "moll's" arms.
the Registrar of Voters in their All Funds From Fee
statements examined by the · an 18 piece brass band highlighting Social Commissioner Joehometown for an absentee ballot. 
Finance Committee during its not only the big band era but Prochaska. Special ProjectsSome states require these ballots hearings last week. modern music as well. Coordinator John Voll, and SMC to be notorized, but this in­All student government funds The party will begin at 8:30p.m. Social Commission Coordinatorformation is sent with the ballot. 
Studt'nt Government Allocations derive themselves from the $14-with food provided by the Capri Lourrles DelaTorre, Deluca, andMs. Sayad emphasized that per-student fee paid to the Restaurant. John Deluca, one of Di« ~ Keenan have ·organized and
those students still needing to university by each student the organizers of the party, em-wo. ked on the project . All
register or request an absentee The budget provides for $14,900 registrant before the beginning of phasized that the couples should questions should be directed toballot should do so immediately. to go to the student government for theschool year and then handed come in 1920-30 costume. An eight-them. 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer,
News: 283-1715 
on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the
EditoriaI: 283-8661 
individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment.
Business: 283-7471 
Tuesday, October 10. 1972 



A Good Start 
The Student Life Council broke with its tradition of selecting a faculty member chairman and elected Fred Giuffrida, district VI student representative, as the first student chairman in the Council's history. 
Not bad for openers but the new mood of the SLC is probably better represented in Dr. Philip Fac­cenda's remarks after the election of the chairman. He asked the council: -to study alternative life styles in residence halls. -to study the problem of what ac­tion the university will take in the event of the lowering of the age of majority in Indiana. -to decide how many will people will be asked to move off campus in order to eliminate the present bed shortage. -to decide which halls will house women when the number of female undergraduate students is in­creased next year. 
The Catch is ... 
If the SLC produces legislation on all of these topics, it will begin to live up to the potential that a tripartite decision-makinng body has -especially in the area of student life. The catch is that all the effort required to produce workable plans for these problem areas is absolutely wasted if the final product is maliciously rewritten by any of the three of­fices with the power to veto an SLC measure. Students, faculty and administrators should feel legitimately insulted if their efforts on the SLC are treated with the sa me callousness as past resolutions. 
One suggestion which might get the SLC off on the right track would be for Faccenda to announce at the next meeting that he would ap­preciate by November 15 a detailed proposal on the creation of new female residence halls. The proposal should include specific recommendations on which halls would be converted this year and 
daan.-bury 
for the next couple of years. In addition, provisions for the han­dling of displaced students (in­cluding extensive improvement of information on off-campus housing) should be incorporated into the report. 
Flexible proposal 
A flexible proposal like this one would allow the administration to make the announcement of dor­mitory plans for next year in time for the announcement to have some bearing on a student's decision to move off-campus. Such a proposal would also represent a first (and hopefully extensive) effort in the area of long range housing planning. 
Most importantly, the proposal would give Faccenda the in­formation and advice he needs anyway to make the decision to convert a residence hall. It would be foolish to request such a report and then not act on its recom­mendations. 
Once this major consideration is handled, the credibility and usefulness of the SLC can be considered with useful evidence. Certainly, the two critical con­siderations will be whether the group can deliver a well-written, well-researched report and whether the administration treats that report with the respect it deserves. 
Right now there is good reason for optimism. The unanimous actions of the body indicate that, more than in past years, the three actions have a common sense of purpose. The SLC has always been politicized and sometimes this factionalization has worked in the students best interests. Its just possible that a smoothing over of the sharp political distinctions will make the SLC work more ef­fectively this year. 
John Abowd 


There's a story from way back which claims that Benjamin Franklin, though the vice president of the United States, should be called "His Superfluous Excellency." Franklin was a pretty sharp guy--1 wonder if after a critical examination of class officers he would render them "their superfluous poobahs." 
Are class officers necessary? At Saint Mary's, their function is to "articulate class opinion through their positions on the executive cabinet of student government." And yet, what particular needs would one class have that another would not? What needs would students have that could not be voiced as audibly and effectively through the student assembly? 
Class officers rna:'( ~e~e as initiators and organizers of class projects, but the only two activities at SMC presided over by class groups are the Christmas banquet (traditionally sponsored by the junior class) the Sophomore parents weekend. But these always have individual chairmen anyway; class officers aren't needed in these capacities. Last year the merged freshman class sponsored a series of social functions but drn:s this indicate that class officers are merely a group of sociai 
co-ordmator ? A social commission could fill this function. 

Quick quiz: That's what almost everyone who runs for a class office purports to be. Yet, how does one unite a class of 500 at St. Mary's? A class of 1500 at Notre Dame? Let's be realistic. 
Quick quiz: 1) name your class officers from last year; 2) name one thing they accomplished. Did both questions draw a blank? Thencongratulation:::,you·ve gotten the point. 
Perhaps Saint Mary's students have become cynical about class of­fices, and even student government in general. Perhaps that's why out of the four positions available--president, vice-president, secretary, and treasurer--only one person is running from the junior class. Perhaps that's why there were no contests in any of the student assembly elections in the halls--in fact, only one student ran for one of three available positions in Holy Cross Hall--the other two had to be filled by ap­pointment. 
Which brings us to today's election. Thank God that no percentage of the class must vote in order to make the electiOn valid--past elections show such meager runouts that no one would ever have gotten elected provided anyone chose to run>. Candidates need no percentage over their opponents--a simple majority is all that's necessary. 
Student governement does have a purpose but class officers are a superfluous bunch of figureheads. Their jobs can be done just as well by the members of the student assembly .. It's a waste of time to even bother. 
The no-contests in the student assembly elections two weeks ago--now, thats11nother matter entirely. The student assembly meets weekly, and serves as an outlet for information, a place for halls and-or clubs to petition for student government funds <and a dispenser of said funds), and is the first in a series of three legislative bodies any proposal must pass before it reaches the Board of Regents. One member represents a constituency of approximately 100 women. These members are elected on a_ hall basis--five from LeMans, and three each from McCandless, Regma, and Holy Cross. Off-campus holds one seat. The bulk of student representation is here and there is no reason for students to be represented twice--such representation is a duplication of functions. 
The student assembly, then, is a fairly important body. For students to be apathetic toward it--a body which really does have some power <as opposed to class positions, which are essentially a fake lis for them to be apathetic about the issues which should be of primary concern to them ­parietals, the right of students to determine their own lifestyles, open lobbies, dispensation of student government funds, the development of St. Mary's, and countless others yet to arise. 
Apathy gets brought up every year but nothing ever gets done about it. The stellar example of class officers has been no help, either. This may be _a year of test-~et's examine the function of the class officer this year as It IS translated mto action -and see if the posts are really viable ones. If not, let'sabolishthem and concentrate our attention and efforts on the student assembly--something that is really worth getting excited about. 

'!lArry trud•au 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
~----------------~ 

I Hf/ST5-4X TI-llS !SN'r
1/T t.Asr1 


evrr'H
A P!HM tOT /J!ffeREIJI
11V FIRST PAY ()NTH& HJB. 

7HI1N J'IJST B~IN6 II H/1551£0 
6£T77!VG
MOTH~R ITS 1!-IC: Sr!M~ .577<f.J66/..C -ro 6'Er THR0(/6fl fiJI/} FOR tr/
0 

IH& 1?/IY. 
Issue Staff: 
Night Editors: Beth Hall and Dan Barret! Layout: Janet A. Giordano, Steve Barrett, Pete Headlines: Ken Kampman dawntreader: mark j. niederkorn Typists: Diane Chermside, Tom Modglin 
Thanks, Jer Goodbye, Fred 

1111111111111111111111111111111IIIIIII1111II II II II IIIllII111111II II 11111111111II 
• 
Tuesday, October 10, 1972 the observer 
5 

Full text of Budget committee proposals 
request. Rowing Club-Crew TeamPre-Law Society ... $150.
Budget Recommendations Sailing ClubMath Club ... $150.
Finance Committee Happy Day Care Center, lnc...$750. Glee Clubto be applied to speakers' expenses andNotre Dame Student Government 

other academic or cultural programs. A not-for-profit enterprise operated by a Karate Club student board, Happy Day Care Center Flying Irish Flying Club offers an essential service to the student Arnold Air SocietyFor the past several years students, Notre Dame Radio Club ... $150. 
and university communities. Farley Stridersfaculty, and administrators have addressed to to be used to make physical repairs to its Farley Cyclersthemselves to the goals, objectives and building and for equipment additions to 
WSND ... $1,000.

priorities of the Christian University. In enable radio-telephone communications. 
to be used for improvement of the physical While symphathizing with the difficultiesdetermining this year-s budget we also feel plant and of signal quality. experienced by these groups, we are not an obligation to relate the priorities em­Chess Club ... $750. 
able to advise that student activities feesployed in the formulation of these recom­to provide necessary financial backing for a Scholastic's Course Evaluation be used to additionally fund them. In the mendations. Midwest regional tournament to be held at Book ... $2.500 case of the rowing-crew, sailing, andThe Student Activity Fee of 14 dollars is Notre Dame and the purchase of co­glee clubs, university money has beencollected by the University and entrusted to necessary equipment to launch this Student Government recognizes its responsibility, along with that of the made available. Unfortuanately, theStudent Government in order to subsidize organization. 

University and the colleges, to inform nature of their activities and of theirvarious academic, cultural, and service the student body of courses offered. requests are neither primarilyprograms within the framework of the Free University...$75 
recomment ap­nor service.
philosophical and political viewpoint there are costs involved in running even free Therefore, we the academic, cultural, The 
propriation of $2,500 which represents remaining organizations are maintainedrepresented among the student body. universities, therefore, $75. is pledged for approximately one-third to one-half of primarily for the benefit of theirMindful of our own economic limitations, we promotional needs to avoid the necessity the total costs involved. memberships, and any service or are unable to assume those responsibilities of tuition hikes. 
charitable aspects are secondary.

that lie primarily with other segments of the Ha II life Fund ... $4,250. (Public relations and alumni relations
lntt'rnational Students
University. Accordingly, we cannot expect If Notre Dame is to remain a residence are University functions.)
the students to fund such items as public Oq:(a niza tion University, establishment and main­
relations, alumni relations, campus MECHA...$1,500. 
tenance of a comfortable level of life in International Student Leadershipministry, and athletics. Notre Dame Baltic Society ... $350. 
the residence halls lies primarily with . .. In our opinion, this organizationIn a similar vein, we cannot appropriate Notre Dame Celtic Society ... $500. 
the Administration. However, and its program has little bearing on the
funds to activities definable as the private to be applied to speakers' stipends and recognizing that the University has only ND student community, and it would concerns of individuals or groups of expenses and to cultural and academic reluctantly financed construction of best look elsewhere for funding.
students. events. 
study, party and meeting rooms in the Additionally, it is our view that the proper halls, we recomment the appropriation Campus Ministry source of funds for charitable activities is All events, academic, cultural, service, of $4,250 to a Hall Life Fund, and ask thatetc., that shall be funded by these grantsthe Mardi Gras Charity Chest and direct the University again match this sum. It is with regret that we reject the budgetsolicitation of individual students. must be open to all students and must be These funds will be distributed to the request of the Campus Ministry. We feelannounced and advertised in advance. In halls by a hall life committee, similar to that it is a primary responsibility of the considerations mind, addition, if an entry fee is to be required of
With these in we the arrangement employed in 1971-72, to University to adequately fund this 
make the following recommendations: members of the University community finance internal construction and pur­program and question why the Campusfunded by these grants, any profits shall chase of equipment and luxuri-es for the Ministry found it necessary to appeal to Student Union: not be applied to activities which would hall communities. Maintenance and student government for money.
AdminisIralion...$6, 100. not have normally been funded by the repair the are the
structural of hall Academic Commission ... $18,000. original grant. 
direct responsibilities of the UniversityCampus Press ... -0­and not of the hall treasuries or the 
Cultural Arts...$17,300. New Frontier Scholastic Society FURTHER RECOMMENDATIONS:
student activities fees. 
Services Commission ... -0-The Society of Ujamma...$2.500. 
In the past, student government grantsSocial Commission ... $2, 100. 

Hall Grant Program...$3,250. 
were remitted directly to the organizationtotal student union ... $43,500. While recognizing the need to subsidize the This committee recommends that a grant of which was then free to spend the funds as itprograms of Notre Dame-s black com­50 cents per resident be remitted to the saw fit. Last year the organizations wereStudent Government...$14,900.. The munity, we feel separate funding of these residence hall treasuries to be used for required to submit financial statements atrationale for funding of those campus two groups would result in inequities and funding programs within the halls and the end of each semester to inform studentorganizations independent of Student imbalances, as well as duplication of for the funding of An Tostal weekend. 

government as to these

Government lies in the fact that the services. Therefore, it is our recom­The remaining amount of this total grant how funds were 
used.

Government, Student Union, and the halls mendation that $2,500 be appropriated for shall be held for off-campus students and Review of those financial statementsoften fail to address themselves to the academic and cultural events that will be an represen­
remitted to off-campus reveal some questionable uses of studentparticular needs of certain segments of the open to all students. Distribution of these tative organization when one is formed. 
body funds. Therefore, we recomment thatincluding funds shall be administrered according to

student community, minority It is our feeling that An Tostal weekend appropriations be made for specific pur­students, foreign students, and non-Arts & a formula agreed upon by all segments of can be adequately funded by the poses, as enumerated in this report.
Letters college majors. the black commumity and submitted to residence halls following this blanket, After reviewing each request, we singledMore than thirty groups appeared before the legislative branch of Student no-strings grant. 
out items that could appropriately bethis committee on Monday, October 2, with Government. 

financed by the student body. In each caserequests ranging from $40 to $7,000. In the It is the unanimous recommendation of we attempted to make the approved usc ofhope of lending greater balance to campus Kinetoscope Filmmaking...$500. 

this committee that the budget requests funds broad enough to ensure a viablewide programs, we make the following recognizing the desirability of cultu,·al and of the foiling organizations be rejected: program for the organization, yet narrowrecommendations: creative outlets of this type, we recom­Neighborhood Study Help Program, enough to eliminate inappropriate uses.
mend the appropriation of $500. for the Manasa Field trips, travel expenses for students,Technical Review .... $200. purchase of equipment and supplies and Boxing Club-Bengal Missions parties and social gatherings, office sup­to be applied to general publication ex­to enable the establishment of a lending ND-SCMC Council for the Retarded plies and expenses, and the like, are more penses to maintain this magazine as a fund to aid the financing of individual CILA .appropriately supported directly by theproductions.
forum in which engineering and ar­organization and its members.
chitectural students may address to Red Cross Blood Program...$100. To ensure proper use of these funds, we matters of common interest. 
to be used for publicity and supplies recommend that all funds, with the ex­These organizations supervise charitable
necessary to operate the semester blood ception of the hall grant program, be ad­
American Institute of Aeronautics and programs and would more appropriately
drives. ministered directly by the StudentAstronautics, NO Chapter ... $300. be funded from the Mardi Gras Charity 
Government Treasurer. In addition, the to be applied to funding of its Midwest Draft Counseling ... $400. Chest. (A report of the appropriations of organizations receiving fund'"'g should be

regional convention to be held at Notre the Charity Chest will be issued shortly.)
Although we recognize that draft counseling required to submit a full state••ent of totalDame, to speakers'stipends and expenses, should fall within the realm of a operations to the Treasurer at the end of and other cultural or academic events 
university responsibility and should be each semester.
that will be open to all students. 
funded through the counseling center We further recommend the rejection of American Chemical Society •.. $75. 
and its programs, the urgency of this the budget requests of these additional FINANCE COMMITTEE Finance Club ... $150. service demands that we act on this organizations: Mike Marget, chairman. 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Letter... 
...on the polls 

Editor: seem to respond favorably." residence, registration and if they leads McGovern by a margin The most responsible cours£' of -Mr. McCabe should have in-would like to work for YVP. From fluxuating to a high of 39 per cent action Mr. McCabe could have 
This letter is being written in vestigated the facts before making this information we have compiled (Time, October 2, 1972). If these . taken would have been to contact response to Dennis McCabe's an uninformed evaluation of our rcomprehensive listings for our polls are not credible enough for 1 us, or another YVP member, for a retorical letter of October 6 in poll. YVP pollsters were assigned campaign activities. It should now· Mr. McCabe, because they do not complete explanation of our which he accused the Young to every dorm on the ND-SMC be evident to Mr. McCabe why concentrate on ND-SMC, the polling techniques and a review "f Voters for the President <YVP) of campus, married housing and McGovern voters were not in-Observer poll indicates the our raw data before making his fraudulently releasing fictitious Notre Dame ApartmentsEach tensively questioned. President leading by 13 per cent. grandiose allegations. • poll results .These flagrant ac-person was instructed to contact In his letter to the editor, Mr. The difference between our 15 per In his conclusion, Mr. McCabe cusations are unfounded. every room, introduce himself and McCabe continued by alleging that cent and 13 per cent is certainly asks the question, "How 
The results of our canvass, as inform the respondent of their our poll was fabricated and part of explanable considering polling pathetically naive do you think we correctly reported in the Observer, affiliation with YVP. They, then a coordinated effort to convince techniques and sample variations .. are?" YVP recognizes that Lhe revealed 51 per cent of those polled asked the question, or a similar the American public that However, such differences are not college voter is perhaps the most favoring President Nixon, 36 per question, "If the election were held President Nixon has a com-attributable to fabrication. The informed, conscientious voting cent favoring Senator McGovern today, who would you vote for?" If manding lead over Senator only contrary polling results were population in the country; with one and 13 per cent undecided or not the respondent indicated a McGovern. The facts are that he released by the poll conducted by possible exception, Dennis 
planning to vote. Mr. McCabe preference for Senator McGovern, does have such a lead. campus McGovern supporters. McCabe. assert that, "This is nothing but an the interview would be concluded. A Time Magazine poll, con-Their results, which showed intentional distortion of the If the respondent indicated they ducted by Daniel Yankelovich, McGovern with a slight lead, are YVP Co-Chairmen truth ... mainly because they have would vote for President Nixon, Inc., the Harris Poll and the Gallop simply not explanable in the light Bruce and Han Callner ignored any student who did not they were further questioned as to Poll all indicate that the President of the numerous polls mentioned. 
.."?t 

• 
the observer Tuesday, October 10, 1972
6 



Campus happenings••••• 
Mediation lecture 

There will be an introductory lecture on Transcendental Meditation as taught by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi on Tues., Oct. lOth at 1\:00 p.m. in Room 205 O'Shaughnessy Hall at Notre Dame University. Admission is frPe. Sponsored by the Students' International Meditation Society. For further information call 283­1\555. 
The Students' International Meditation Society is a non-profit, tax exempt, educational organization. 

Organ concert 

Daniel Pedtke, director of the University of Notre Dame Glee Club and associate professor emeritus of music, will present a program of organ music in the Sacred Heart Church Wednesday at !1: 15 p.m.
He will perform eight numbers, including Bach's "Fantasie and Fugue in G minor," and Saint­Saens' "Prelude to the Deluge" Op. 45" A Psalm composed by a professor of music at Notre Dame, Hev. Carl Hager, C.S.C. and the "Prelude and Fugue on Bach" by Franz Liszt will also be featured. 
Legal aid 

Due to an expected need for some form of legal counselling for the student body, the Notre Dame Legal Aid and Defender Association has instituted a Student Counselling Program to aid the graduate and un­dergraduate student populace with their legal problems. The division will be staffed by third year law students who, under supervision, can handle most of the legal matters that could complicate student life. 
To qualify for assistance from the Student Counselling Program, the individual must be enrolled as a student at the University of Notre Dame. Secondly, the individual must fill out an economic need form. !This is necessary because the entire program is premised on giving legal assistance to those who cannot afford to hire a lawyer>. 
The StudentCounselling Program is located in the Legal Aid and Defender Association office in Room 104 of the law school. !Phone: 283-7795) 


Nixon rally 

A young people's rally in support of Richard Nixon's re-election campaign will be held Tuesday, Oct. 10, at 7:00 p.m. The rally, which is sponsored by the St. Joseph County Young Votefs for the President, will include rock band entertainment, refresh­ments, campaign issue in­formation, and brief remarks by 
Y.V.P.Ieaders. The rally will be held in the Nixon Headquarters at 103 N. Michi~an. 
The public rally is open to all 
0 
0 
0
0 
n\11\"\e&) ' 
sll\lef• t~t~\aftee· 


S"'~us 
Imagine 16 days of Tyrolean Skiing in Kitzbuhel, lnnsbruck. Mayrhofen, and all of it at no cost to you! All you need do is sell four of your ski buddies on this exciting snow-venture, and you go free (or, should you prefer, you can receive a generous cash commis­sion). But you must act now as space is limited. The first trip leaves at Christmas. For further details write: 
P.O. Box 8398, SaH Lake City, Utah 84108. 

young Nixon supporters and is designed to demonstrate the strong support the President has among young people. Local residents and Notre Dame-St. Mary's students are co-planning the rally activities. 
Bill Wison of the Y.V.P.'s is serving as the rally planning chairman. 
The rally's entertainment will be highlighted by the appearance of the rock band, Sweet Red. In­formation booths will be used to discuss the key political issues of the campaign on a person to person basis. Wilson will briefly address the rally on the importance of young people taking an active role in the remaining weeks of the campaign. Bruce and Jan \aliner. co chairmen of the Notre Dame-St. Mary-s Y. V.P. will encourage student participation. St. Jospeph County Y.V.P. Chairman, Andy Nickle will welcome and introduce guests. New campaign supplies will be distributed and door prizes will be awarded. 
The Young Voters for the President is composed of Nixon supporters through the age of thirty. It is a branch of the National Committee to Re-elect the President. 

Kenya talk 
The Black Studies Program will sponsor a talk by Herman De Bose, a veteran worker in the action, Peace Corps & Vista programs at 
7: 30 P.M. Tuesday in the Black Cultural Arts Center of Lafortune Student Center. 
DeBose will discuss experiences of his service in Kenya, Africa. 
He will show a film "You Owe It To Yourself," which was produced in Kenya & Ghana. 

Still's tix 
Richard Donovan, Concert Coordinator for the Student Union, announced last night that Stephen Stills-Manassas tickets will go on sale this Friday. There will be a simultaneous sale, with half of the tickets at the ACC Ticket Office and the other half at the Student Union Ticket Office. 
Ticket prices will be $5.50 for chair seats and $3.00 for bleachers. The announcement was made in answer to the many requests for 
307 S. Mich. St.


Avon 
288·7800 

TODAY OPEN 6:.15 

campus or by just giving up their

ticket information recently made Oct 16th and 17th, anytime from 9 
ticket so a child can see the game. 

by students. to 4 p.m. at the ticket windows on
Another point is that the program 

the second floor of the Convocation 
is great for community relations. 

Cent_er. They will be given aTicket exchange Bingle feels that this is one day receipt for their ticket and will be 
during the fall in which interaction 

able to pick it up the followingbetween the N.D. students and the Monday, Oct. 23. South Bend people helps foster a 
Drivers will also be needed to 
better understanding between the

The Notre Dame football game tra~sport ki~s to and from their 
two environments.

ticket exchange program is en­designated pick-up points. Anyone tering its third year and in the past The different volunteer who ~an drive should come to a two years over 1500 kids from the organizations that participate in meetmg Monday night at 7 P.M. at South Bend area have been given a the program are, Neighborhood the second floor lobby of the chance to see a Notre Dame Study Help Program, Logan LaFortune Student Center or 
Center, Sr. Marita's Day School,

football game. This years game ca~l John Tully, 8742, for m~re will be the Oct. 21st game between N.WE. Neighborhood Center, and mlormation. 
the Big Brothers and Big Sisters.

N.D. and Missouri. Monitors for the kids the day of 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's

According to Director B.J. the game will also be needed 
students can participate in three

Bingle students who might not ~hat this entails is watching o~t 
usually participate a re given a ways. Most important of all is that lor the children while they are on chance to partake in an outside the program needs 700-800 tickets. c?mpus . from approximately 10 function; either by driving Thos.e students who wish to give up ? clock till 5:30, and taking them their ticket for the game should
children to and from the game, mto the game. The program needs 
monitoring them while they are on turn them in on Mon. and Tues., about a hundred monitors. 

1972 ND STUDENT TRIP 
SEE THE IRISH PLAY THE FALCONS OF AIR FORCE DEPART: Friday, (early pm) Nov. 10, RETURN : Sunday, (late pm) Nov. 12 Here's How To Take Advantage Of The Packaged Plans: 
A.) The Full Package ($140.00) --including round-trip bus transportation between Sou.th Bend and O'Hare Field, round-trip plane transportation between ~h1cago and D«;mver, complete baggage service, hotel ac­commodatiOns f~r two mghts, round-trip bus transportation between Denver and t~e ~1r Force Academy (box lunches will be served en route) and free admJSSIO~ to a pre-game party (Friday night) and to a victory 
party (Saturday mght after the aame). B.) Partial packages more suited to your needs are available. 
Signups may be handled in the OffCampus Office 
basement of LaFortune from 11 :30 am to 4:00 pm Deadline for signups and payment is Tuesday, Oct. 10. For further information Call Jim Shanahan at 233-4840 

COLOR IN THIS "MINI­

PRESIDENTIAL 
1. 
Buy a bunch of Flair pens. You need black, red, blue, brown, orange and pur­ple. (You need them anyway for school.) 

2. 
Now-color in the picture according to these color guide numbers. (1). Black (2). Red (3). Blue (5). Brown (6). Orange (9). Purple. Please do not color unnumbered areas. \ 


POSTER" OF ONE OF THE 


CANDIDATES! 
3. Congratulations! You have created a genuine full color portrait of someone you know and love. Maybe. If he is not your favorite presidential candidate, have patience. You'll see your favorite next in 
the Flair Election Collection! 
(Don't forget to ask about Flair's running mate, the Flair Hot Liner.) 

.-------------------------------------­



Columnist calls for end to business intrigue 
Tuesday, October 10, 1972 the observer 
7 

by Cean Mayers 
Dr. Leonard Silk, nationally known columnist and member of the editorial board of the New York Times called for a "national ef­fort" to bring "clandestine business and government operations out into the open," yesterday afternoon in the Library Auditorium. 
Dr. Silk, speaking on the "Future of American Capitalism," stressed that there is a trend today toward "greater intermixture between government " and business." He warned that too close an arrangement between the two is "dangerous" and cited as an example the closeness of defense military establishment. He called for "higher ethical standards from all involved -the press, business, and the government." 
Silk's address was the opening lecture of the Cardinal O'Hara lecture series. He spoke before 200 people. 
He also advised against ex­cessive interminling of govern­ment and business in federal housing projectsundertlousing and Urban Development Secretary Geouge Romney. While men­tioning that nearly every govern­ment program provides op­portunities for "collusion of a particularly dangerous kind," he did stress that the nation has weathered government-business scandals of a far more serious nature in years past. 

Thoughout the lecture, Dr. Silk sought to throw some light on the question of whether capitalism in 
America will survive or gradually disappear in the future. He began by tracing the history of capitalism from its inception in the Middle Ages to its zenith in twentieth century America. 
He stated that "America in the past has been an inspiration to world capitalism." 
Dr. Silk cautioned, however, that today "there is widespread disillusion with the glories of capitalism despite the evidence of prosperity." Stating that many Americans question whether the original goals of capitalism are still of value, Dr. Silk predicted waves of attack on capitalism in the future. "But." he added, "the attacks will be mild." 
He stated that such attacks 

Grad school interviews begin this week 
The first of about 25 Graduate Schools of Business and 20 Law Schools will begin their interviews at the Placement Bureau, Thur­sday and Friday of this week. 
On Thursday, October 12, the Tulane University Graduate School of Business will be 
Chess match pairings are available in the Observer office or at 8661 
represented by Prof. Dan Cliffe, and on Friday, October 13, the George Washington University School of Business will be represented by Professor Anthony 
J. Mastro. 
On Monday, October 16, the Graduate Schools of Business of De 

Security report 
by Beth Wille Observer Staff Reporter 
Two armed robberies and firecracker disturbances con­stituted what Arthur Pears, Notre Dame Security Chief, termed as an "average weekend". 
Saturday night at 8:05 two Notre Dame students were robbed at gunpoint south of the University Club. Escaping without injury the pair lost fifteen dollars in cash, and both of their student I.D. and football tickets. A student hitch-hiker was robbed Saturday night at 2:10a.m. after he was picked up near the circle. After pushing the hitch-hiker out of the car, the armed robber made away with one dollar in cash. 
Using a golf cart as a "get away car". three Notre Dame students were picked up by security Suncay morning at 2 · 10 a.m. for throwing firecrackers on campus. They will appear before the Dean of Students Paul and Amos Tuck School of Dartmouth College, will recruit on campus. on Wednesday, October 18, Virginia and Purdue Univer­sities will visit the campus. New York University is scheduled for Friday, October 20. 
Among the Law Schools, Nor­thwestern and Boston Universities will be here on Wednesday, Oc­tober 18, to interview prospective Law students. 
Students interested in the above Graduate Schools of Business may now sign up for interviews in Room 207, Main Building. Students in­terested in Law School interviews should sign up outside Dean Waddick's office in O'Shaughnessy Hall. All interviews will be held in Room 210, Administration Building. 
Watch the Placement Bureau Bulletins for additional visits for the weeks following the above listed interviews. 

, NOTICE 
Jobs Are Available... ! For FREE information on student assistance and placement program send self-addressed STAMPED envelope to the National Placement Registry, 1001 East Idaho St., Kalispell, MT 59901 
-NO GIMMICKS ­

FRESHMAN PHOTO DIRECTORIES MAY BE PICKED UP 4th FlOOR LA FORTUNE 1 -5 STUDENT 





UNION OFFICES 

. 'would consist more of rhetoric • Ralph Nader. While stating that than anything else and reasoned Nader often attacks some of the that such attacks have occured recent trends in capitalism, he before, are cyclic in nature, and hastened to add that Nader is "one pose no serious threat to of the mildest of business critics ­capitalism's future. he works within the system by Dr. Silk had a few words of trying to save it from its own praise for consumer advocate follies." 
-~~~-----------, 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Desperately need 4 TCU tickets. Phone 287-6010. 
Need 2 gen. admission TCU tickets. Call Frank 1943. 
Desperately need 4 gen. ad. mission tickets to Pittsburgh, call Tom 6848. 
I need a roomate. 2 headed, anything. 233-1329. Private. Gorgeous. Keep trying. 

Need six copies of the play "The Mouse That Roared." Call Art 8545. 
Want 4 Gen Adm tix for Missouri or TCU 8918. 
Desperately need tickets to Texas Christian game. Call 3377, please. 

Help wanted . have show car, need help in sanding & custom painting. Will pay call 232-0503, Millon (Monstu'er). 
Desperately need 3 gen. adm. tix to Pittsburgh. Call Joe 7471 or 232. 5633. 
EASY RIDER needs a bike (500 cc or larger) for wknd. of Oct. 20. 
22. Have experience and pay well. Call: 1609. 
Wanted: secretary, must type and take shorthand. 6-12 hours per week. Apply OBSERVER salary negoitable. 
Needed: TCU tix 2 general admission. Call 7819. 
Need one Pitt. student ticket. call 7471, 7812. 
Need 4 general admission tickets for TC Need not be together. Call John 1605. 
Need Missouri Tix, call 234-6802. 

Need 1 gen ad. tic.-et to TCU call 3521. 
Need ride to Cincinnati, October 
13. Please call 4354. 
Desperately need ride for HTH from Milwaukee to Notre Dame this Fri. and return ride to Milwaukee Sunday. Call 8573. 
Coaches needed for inner-city youth basketball league. Call 288· 4857, 1:00-5:00. 
Ride needed from Pittsburgh and back (Indiana U. in Penn.) for weekend of Oct. 14~15. Will pay 283-1868. 
Have 2 ga Pitt tickets. Will trade lor 2 ga tickets to any other home game. Call Jim 3256. 
NOTICE 
Student discounts on new Westinghouse Compact Refrigerators spacious 4.4 cu. ft. rapacity, factory warranty, immediate delivery. Call now! Wynne's Refrigeration Co. 234­0578. 
TED WILSON RALLY Saturday, October 14th 8 o'clock to ? Live orchestra Black and Chicano Theater Roast pig, barbequed chicken, etc. All the beer you can drink and all the food you can eat for $2.00. Tickets: phone 282-1186. 
Morrissey Loan Fund. Borrow up to $150. La Fortune basement. Open 11:15-12:15 Monday thru Friday. 
Tl1ose who feel they have psychic abilities and are interested in participating in parapsychology experiment, contact Gil 1067. 
Washington Post. NY Times & more on Sun. at Pandora's Books, SB & ND Aves. 
Typing experienced in disser. ations essays, term papers. Arlene Spitz 232-9061. 
Grad school and job applications photos taken 12-1 daily in Off. campus office. For more info call 283-8491 between 12-l. 
Europe is alive & warm & un­crowded this Christmas. Let us take you there. You'll find it incredibly inexpensive. Britich Overseas Airways Corporation. 
BOAC, Call Clark 283-8810 for details. 
There will be a SOCIOLOGY ANTHROPOLOGY MAJOR'S NIGHT MIXER tonight. October 
10, from 8:00 to 10:00 pm in the Library Lounge. There will be coffee and donuts and a chance to meet other sociology majors, as well as some of the faculty in the Department. This event is being sponsored by the honorary sociology society. 
Notre Dame juniors and seniors, the Peace Corps and Vista recruiters will be on campus October 9-13, with tables in the Library concourse all week, the Placement office on Thursday and the Architecture building on 
Thursday and Friday. If you are looking for the best way to go in the future and will have a degree or high skill in engineering, ar. ch itecture. business, education or math and general science, visit the ACTION recruiters. There is a place for you in the world. 
LOST 
Lost at pep rally: keys on wooden disk. Jan 6953. ' 
FOR RENT 
One bedroom apt. utilities paid washer & dryer. Call after 6:30 pm. 232-9448. 
PERSONAL 
George Black and Chris Mecca Hot dog dayy would never be. Thanx 
Hey Mexicali Grif! It's been 11 months. Thank you. I love you. "Flash" 
Tl1e Horns of 3-c are looking for a similarfemale group. Mutual satisfaction guaranteed. Phone 1686 
All Birds have wings and some have bills. Can you imagine a wing with a bill? I can Winger 
FOR SALE 
1963 ImapaIa Auto power, air, V ~ 8 A 1 mechanically 21,000 origional miles 259~9766 
Must sell: 701 2 Firebird 400, excellent condition, extremely low mileage, ai , Am FM, 4 on the floor, Must Drive, see. $2600 or best offer call 6588 or 272~6255 
For Sale: Gibson electric guitar. Call 283-1620 · 
Panasonic car stereo tape player, $30. Ca II 6272 
Electric combo organ with amp, $300 must sell. call 6272 
For sale: 1969 Triumph GTG + red, six cylinder, 4~speed, very Clood condition $1,650 Call nnytime alter 5 289 1794 
1967 Dodge Coronet V ~8, deluxe, power steeringbrakes. radio. 
44.000 miles tall 272~ 1700 after 
3:00 or week enc 
For Sale: Period ?-drawer Walnut kneehole desk with matching chair S40.00 259-9596 
For Sale: 2 Gen. Adm. Pitt tickets Call 1595 
Words lda 2da 3da 4da 5da 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46·50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 

.­
• 
.... 
.. 
the observer Tuesday, October 10, 1972
8 

Keenan wins IH grudge rematch 
by Stan Urankar victory. Farley now prepares for '72 runner-up Morrissey in a
A pair of North Quad teams League Two faceoff next weekend. 
captured important vicoties, and the 1972 finalists continued to roll Dillon 22, Off-Campus 0
toward an eventual rematch in lnterhall football action Sunday afternoon. Keenan and Farley Th Big Red defense starred, both came up with clutch shutout limiting 0-C to no first triumphs to label them as con­downs and negative yardage on tenders for the campus title, while offense. The losers accumlated 76 Dillon and Morrissey showed no yards in penalties, prompting signs of weakening as divisional Dillon coach Mike · play reached its second week. Caulfield to term them "the dir­
tiest, cheap-shot team we've seen Kt>enan H, Breen-Phlllips 0 in three years." Junior Tim Pophim recorded a safety for the 
Last season, the same two clubs Big Red, and Jim Cannon and Carl fought to a 6-6 tie that eliminated Weyan recovered fumbles. B-P from playoff contention. 
Freshman Craig Tigh broke
Keenan got their six again in this loose for a 34-yard touchdown runyear's rematch, via quarterback on the opening drive, and rackedJohn Gulden's one-yard run that up 54 yards in eight carries for his capped a 45 yard, second period day's work. Bill Frost scored from scoring drive. 
the one in the third period, withB-P took their opening series to 
Jack Licata adding the extrathe Keenan seven, but lost the ball points, and senior quarterbackon a fumble, one of five turnovers Randy Stasik added the final scoreforced by the winners' defense. 
with a 14-yard scoring strike to"Tom Hudes made a key in­split end Bill Hoy on the game's
terception for us in the fourth final play.

quarter," commented Keenan Dillon and Morrissey both posted weekend IH wins. coach Tom Ewing. Halfback Don Curl also picked off an errant B-P intercepting at the Zahm 22. Four calling just did not get going." at 1-1.
Morrissey 14, Zahm 0 

plays later, Miller plunged home
aerial to seal this North Quad 

verdict. from the one, with Breen crashing The only serious scoring threat Lyons, 6 St. Joseph 0 in for the final two points. of the game occurred on the
"We made mistakes, and had too game's first play. Pangborn­

many fumbles," quarterback Kirk Morrissey's defense also played A total team effort brought
Farley 14, Cavanaugh 0 Fisher clicked on a 5o-yard bomb
Miller said about the Mauraders' a major part in the victory, holding to the HC 15, but the play was Lyons back up to the .500 level in second victory. "It wasn't a sharp Zahm to a single first down and the League Two race, a game
negated on an offsides penalty.
A rugged defense that forced five 

effort...the running just wasn't as less than 30 yards total offense in behind front-running MorrisseyCavanaugh turnovers produced smooth as usual." the first half. and Farley. A 40-yard drive in theone touchdown and set up the other second quarter gave the winners 
as Farley moved to their second Grace 12, Flanner 0 
Despite the off -day, Morrissey their necessary touchdown, as
straight win. Tackle Neal Kemp 

still ground 162 yards rushing, with Paul Sokolich passed 15 yards to
started the first scoring play by Holy Cross II, Pangborn-Fisher, 0 

hitting quarterback Steve tailback Paul Breen the sparkplug. Second and fourth quarter touch­tight end Rob Hoertz for the score. The senior from Columbus, Ohio,
DeCoursey in the end zone. John downs gave Grace the victory in Horan pounced on the loose ball for took a pitchout from Miller and the annual battle of the High Scoring Leaders TD XP TP 
a 6-0 Farley edge. raced nine yards to a second There's not too much you can say Risers. QB Jim Ronan hit Jerry 
An interception paved the way quarter score that capped a 62-about a scoreless tie. "Our offense Samaniago with a 25-yard scoring P. Breen, Morr. 3 4 22 for Carl Oberzut 's four-yard run in yard drive. just couldn't get moving," Cross pass for the winning points, and B. Walls, Dil. 3 2 20 the final stanza. Oberzut then fullback Gary Caster noted. "They halfback Jim Earnst scampered 12 H. Bigham, Far. 2 2 14 
<P-Fl had some big tackles. C. Tigh, Dil. 2 2 14
passed to end Harry Bighan for the Linebacker Tim McCauley set yards to an insurance touchdown 
extra point conversion and the up the second Marauder tally, blocking the way, and our play-as the winners evened their record K. Miller, Morr. 2 0 12 

ND third in cc tennis tourney 
by Greg ('organ singles competition Notre Dame's Hawkeyes gained second place by Under the blue skies of a cool one and two doubles teams tied the virtue of losing one less game than 
score at four apiece. With the
October weekend, the University the Irish. Indiana State and


OBSERVER 
outcome hinging on the third and

of Cincinnati withstood challenges Purdue rounded out the five-team 
final doubles match the tandem of event.
from Iowa and Notre Dame to 
Mark and John Reilly fought to a 6­
capture the third annual Central 
6 tie versus the Cincinnati duo of

Collegiate Tennis Championships. Chris Kane, 5'10", 150 pound
SPORTS 
Peckskamp and Bates. This

The title was the Bearcats first sophomore, was Coach Fallon's
forced the match into a nine point 

in the Central Collegiates, and it most pleasant surprise. Last
tiebreaker which saw the Ohioans

came as a result of two narrow 5-4 season Kane was the seventh man 
come out on top 5-3 and wrap up the 

victories over both the Hawkeyes on a team which posted a 16-3
title.

and the Irish. record. This fall Chris has worked 
B-ba/1 tryout times slated 

Coach Tom Fallon's squad was himself into the number one slot Tryouts for Notre Dame's Candidates should bring their Host and defending champion and this past weekend defeated
one point short of clinching second 

varsity basketball team will be own equipment and use the student Notre Dame, fielding a young, 1971 singles champion John
place behind Iowa, whom they tied 

held at 7:00 pm next Monday and lockers in the A.C.C. untested squad, came within two Peckskamp of Cincinnati (5-7, 6-2,
in the win-loss column. Under the

Tuesday <October 16-17) in the points of successfully retaining . 6-4), Nick Giordano of Purdue, who
accepted scoring system for

main arena of the Athletic and Both upperclassmen and fresh-their crown. After battling back last year defeated Buster Brown,
breaking ties however, the

Convocation Center. men are invited. from a 4-2 deficit at the end of the <6-4, 6-1 ), and Roger Converse of Indiana State (6-1, 1-6, 6-4). His only setback came at the hands of 

·Irish ruggers lose to Michigan, 16-0 
Rod Kubat of Iowa, 6-3, 6­
4. Coach Fallon expressed his 

the Michigan Wolverines, 16-0. vantage of several Irish errors to held a 6-0 lead at the halftime 
satisfaction with the team's

The Notre Dame rugby team The game was closer than the attain their victory. break. The Irish threatened many showing in the three-day event.
dropped its second match of the The Wolverines opened the
final score indicates, and the times in the second half, but the 
s~~n .~his past weekend, losing to veteran team took ad-scoring in the first half and kicking of the Michigan backs kept 
"I'm very pleased with theND from putting any points on the performance of the group.
board. 
Although there were mistakes andTwo late scores by the Wolves 
they still need a lot of work,put the game out of reach for the especially in the area of doublesIrish, whose record is now 6-2. 
competition, I was quite pleasantly The Irish "B" team remained surprised because of their lack ofundefeated, as they trounced experience."
Michigan "B" squad, 22-6. Pat Krueger, Jerry Razer, Henry Clarke, and Mark Fredette all Fallon also noted the fine per­scored trys for the Irish while formances of Mark and Paul John Mcintyre added six points on Reilly. Mark, a transfer studdnt three conversion kicks. and number two man on the team, 
As their past games this season, was ineligible last year and has NO's "B's" were never in serious made a strong showing so far this

• 
trouble. The Irish "piggies" hit fall. Paul Reilly, a 6'6" freshman, hard, passed well, and were all has the physique and deter­over the field harassing the mination to develop into a fine Michigan team. The "B" team's player according to Coach Fallon. record is now 4-0. Both turned in exceptional per­

-The Notre Dame "C" team formances this past weekend. evened their seasonal record at 1-1 with a convincing 24-3 triumph over their opponents. Don Greiwe, The coach was optimistic about Mike Hastings, and Rich Conti all the success of fall tennis. "I feel it 
scored for the Irish in the rout. The was well accepted and is the up "C" team ruggers played ex­and coming thing." He added that ceptionally well, considereing it there was surprisingly good at­was the first game for most of the tendance and that the fall season players. has good potential for the future.





