chance of snow, temperature in the low 20's with an 10-18 mph wind from the north west. barometer is rising. 
Vol. VI, No. 88 


of notre dome -St.. mary's Monday, February 28, 1972 
Rogers, Mack withdraw at SMC 
by T.C. Treanor Observer Assistant Editor 
Sophomore Class President Maureen Rogers and her running mate, Mary Mack announced last night with Student Affairs C~mmissioner candidate Jill Hampe that they were with­drawing from this year's SMC student body presidential race. · 
Miss Rogers also announced that she would attempt to transfer from St. Mary's to Notre Dame at the end of this Academic Year. 
The three, who had entered the race only a week ago, contended in a statement they released at a press conference last night that "we are protecting our investment, our futures and this protection does not allow. us to pursu~ the ~ositions of Student Body President, Vice­President, and Student Affairs Commissioner." 
The trio complained that "Student Govern­ment. . .is incredibly and embarassingly impotent in effecting substantial changes in the academic policies of St. Mary's. 
"We are seriously questioning," they con­tinued in their statement, "whether or not Student Government is really much more than a requiremel)t for accreditation. It appears to be merely that. We cite the degree of effectiveness of Miss Barlow's administration during the December merger crisis. These are officers whose commitment is to the Student Body, but the administration's response has been to hit below the belt; the Student Body has refused to sink that low." 
They also questioned "the purpose of St. Mary's College. Is it to educate women in a Christian environment or to feed the Sisters of the Holy Cross?" 
"I've been at this college for a year and a half," Miss Rogers said, in a question-and­answer session after the announced withdraw!, "and I don't feel I've got an education here." 
"The nuns are so wrapped up in their own little entity here at St. Mary's that students have become superficial," she charged. 
Miss Mack voiced agreement with the charges, contending that "the most important things we could have done next year were in the field of Academics, and Student· Government can't touch Academics." 
In their statement, the three argued that "The Trustees and administrations can battle for years over their financial positions, but the education of the women here should not be left to speculation ... Due to the way the administration has handled the merger, even biology and chemistry, which are among the strongest programs, are in danger of deteriorating to the degree which such oth~r departments as political science, psychology, and business have." 
Miss Rogers refused to endorse either of the two remaining SBP candidates for the election scheduled tomorrow. She urged her supporters to "examine the issues, examine their situations." before deciding whether to vote or for whom. Miss Rogers said that she herself would not vote. 


Fitzpatrick, Orr visit LeMans and Regina 
by Ann McCarry 
Continuing their campaign, SBP candidate Eileen Fitzpatrick and running mate, Mary Orr spoke last night with students in LeMans and Regina Halls. Reviewing mainly their philosophy as set forth in their platform, as they have done throughout the campaign, Ms. Fitz­patrick and Ms. Orr tonight gave new emphasis to their theory of politics. 
"We don't believe in confrontation politics on a day-to-day basis as the only answer" said Ms. Fitzpatrick. 
"But," continued Ms. Orr, "we see it as a possible alternative when all else fails." 
The candidates went on to stress the necessity for students to utilize the structures of the community's government which already exist. 
"The women's voice should be heard in all areas," Ms. Fitzpatrick stated. Ennumerating on this point, she emphasized student 
representation on both the Executive and full board of trustees. For more active voice in the academic affairs of St. Mary's, Ms. Fitzpatrick advanced the possibility of placing students on the Rank and Tenure and Hiring committees. 
In further support of student action within the existing structures, Ms. Orr emphasized the use of the Apellate Board. As set up in the Student Procedural Manual, a student who feels she has been subject to unfair grading procedures or party to unjust administrative decisions, may appeal the action to the board. The board's decision will settle the issue. 
"Using the Apellate Board actively can give us a way to reprimand administrators a:nd make them accountable for their actions," Ms. Fitz­patrick added. 
Fitzpatrick and Orr also recognize a need for a 
change in the present social atmosphere. 

Cooperation stressed by Seymour and Welte 
by Maria Gallagher 
In response to charges that their coalition was "exclusively contingent upon and workably only in the event of a merger," SMC candidates Jean Seymour and Sue Welte last night an­swered questions in a 2-hour rap session in LeMans hall. 
"Programs we propose are workable either way," replied Ms. Seymour. 
"A popular misconception appears to be that we won't be open to a slightly different philosophy if the entire ticket isn't elected," Ms. Seymour continued. 
"Things will probably move faster if the full colaition succeeds, but we'd like to emphasize that we're willing to work with anyone. in order to achieve unity between the two schools," she asserted. 
Ms. Seymour here defined 'unity' as not necessarily a complete, formal merger but 
rather a 'social and cultural exchange of ideas and activities, hopefully in the academic area as well." The latter part, she said, cepended upon the administrative fate of the co-exchange program. 
Ms. Welte stressed that the failure of last year's coalition concept was not necessarily indicative of a similar outcome this year. 
"We have learned from the Barlow-Barkett example that cooperation is essential," the two candidates agreed. "We will not back away from, or flatly reject any of Notre Dame's proposals." However, they added that this could not be accomplished without similar response on the part of Notre Dame student government. 
Seymour and Welte also proposed a number of "innovations" in academics for St. Mary's. 
(Continued on page 6) 


Kersten speaks at SMC fundraising dinner 
by Jim Roe 
SBP hopeful, Bob Kersten, spoke at a fund­raising dinner at SMC and later made ap­pearances at Flanner and Grace halls. There he explained the details of his release. 
He added several new planks to his platofrm, to crowds averaging forty or fifty persons at Grace and Flanner. 
Kersten explained at his fund raising dinner that his kidnapping was effected by "misguided zealots of freedom and dignity who felt, that by seizing me, they were saving the University from that very evil with which we have all along intended to afflict it." 
'The purpose of the fund raising dinner, Kersten said, was "to recover the 'J:7 cents spent ransoming me after my 36 hour stay in the third floor water closet of Lewis Hall." Kersten noted that the 27 cents was surpassed by 15 cents. 
Kersten claimed that the "misguided zealots" , have madetwothreats on my immortality since my release." And, for this reason, "I have been forced to wear sunglasses with my regal attire to keep from being recognized on campus." 
The SBP hopeful replied to those who, "would make a mockery of our campaign by alciming we are running only for the hell of it." He con­tinued, "Far be this from the truth; it is rather divine edict which calls us forth to lovingly watch over and protect our own best interests until such a time as the students may assume this responsibility for themselves." 
Kersten noted his high standing in the polls 
despite a "total news blackout" by the Observer 
and WSND as evidence of his divine support. 
However, he admitted that the blackout was 
probably oflittle consequence,"since my support 
comes mainly from the illiterate rabble, who 
couldn't have read it anyway." 
Disputing the results of the WSND and Ob­
server polls, Kersten said, "neither have allowed 
for the fact that my supporters will be voting 
twice. In fact, in our own poll, conducted at 
random among my ten best friends, I had a clear 
hold on the number one position with sixty per 
cent of the vote." 
Kersten also announced a rally set for 6 p.m. 
this evening with the "unquarterback Pat 
Steenberge speaking for the Uncandidate, and 
Kersten speaking from 'a burning bush' from the 
fourth-floor ledge. 

SBP can.di.dates Eileen Fitzpatrick and Mary Orr challenged their only remammg oppoennets, Jean Seymour and Sue Welte to a formal debate last night. . Seymour and Welte declined the challenge, contending that students m the past had note shown up in considerable number to warrant a campus-wide debate, and would probably not show up at this one. They expressed their desire to campaign in the halls instead saying it 
would be more effective.  '  
Ms. Fitzpatrick expressed "disappointment" at decision.  Ms.  Seymour's  

p.,. 2 THE O&rERVER. Monday, February 28, 1972 Door to door campaign 
Higgins presents coalition platform in Sorin 
by Dan Hopfer 
"I've been a part of the decision-making process here at Notre Dame. And I've been frustrated as I saw how my opinion. which might have made a difference, was neglected," said Bob Higgins, candidate for Student Body President, as he continued his campaign in Sorin Hall. 
The candidate also went to Breen-Philips and Walsh on a door-to-door basis, and spoke to gatherings of students at Grace, Fisher and Lyons, among others. 
Higgins reiterated much of what he and his running mate, Hon Pogge, have said in their platform release, entitled "Higgins & Pogge-Why they're different". 
!lis door-to-door campaign consisted mainly of an in­troduction, followed by short comments on some of the areas where Higgins feels a change is needed: 
--social life: open up La For­tune 24 hours a day; open up lounge areas in the hall for larger parties. 
--hall life: coed dorms; doubling the present student life fund to provide $20,000 ior hall improvements. 
--minorities: increase minority endowment funds; hire a Spanish speaking recruiter. 
--problems of going coed: changing health services ("We will need a full-time gynecologist on campus.. .! think that birth control information should also be available.") 
--a new student-faculty 
coalition: joining forces with the faculty in both the faculty senate 
and  the SLC  to  solve  common  
problems.  
In  Sorin,  Higgins  fielded  

questions from the gathering after he had finished speaking. When asked about changing the structure of the existing Student (;overnment, Higgins replied that he felt that with the merger impending <perhaps), SG should stay the way it is, since "making two changes, one now, and then another one when and if the merger goes through would be pointless. I favor waiting until action is taken on the merger and then streamlining the govern­ment." 
The question was also posed concerning the system of selecting RA's. Here Higgins felt that Fr. Chambers was "quite competent" but that he should 

UnCandidate Cat voted ineligible 

The Notre Dame Election Board, in a heated meeting last Friday, voted four to two to eliminate Bob Kersten's Vice­Presidential candidate, UnCandidate the Cat, from the Ballot. 
The Board did allow the name of UnCandidate's spokesman, Ed Gray, to appear under the Prime Mover's name, however. 
Stay Senator Jim Clarke raised the protest, contending that UnCandidate was not a duly registered Notre Dame student. Kersten brought a copy of UnCandidate's Student Iden­tification <see picture, ·right) to the Election Board meeting, but the Board found the Iden­tification invalid. 
Joining Clarke in the vote was Stay Senator Don Patrick, Student Body President John Barkett. and Student Body Vice­President Orlando Roderiguez. Stay Senators Bob Sauer and T.C. Treanor voted to allow UnCan­didate to run. 
In other Election Board Business. the Board determined the order of candidate's ap­pearance by drawing names out of a silk hat. The ballot, from top to bottom. will read: 
Joe Schlosser-Lincoln Soldate; Mike Cunningham-John Voll; <.;ary Caruso-Bob Long; Bob Higgins-Ron Pogge; Chuck Luken-Walter Spak; Dennis Thomas-Mike Heimers; Paul Dziedzic-Mike Sherrod; Floyd Kezele-Milt Jones; Bob Kersten­f<:d Gray: none of the above. 
The Board also decided to allow all petitions which, due to an error in their construction, had only ninety-nine of the required one hundred signatures printed on them. 
Prof. Chubb to lecture 
Professor Jehangir N. Chubb, 
of ('ase Western Heserve 
l1niversity. will lecture at In­
diana llniversity at South Bend at 
B pn1. l\1onday Web. 28) in the 
faculty lounge of Northside Hall. 
The topic of his lecture will be 
"Sri i\umbindo-The Fulfillment 
of Hinduism." 
The lecture is sponsored by the 
I 'hilosophy Department and the 
<lffice of Continuing Education at 
lliSB. It is free and open to the 
public. 
Professor Chubb holds the D. 
l'hil. degree from Oxford 
l 1niversity. He is a former 
professor and head of the 
Department of philosophy in the 
1\laharashtra Education Service. 
STUDENT 
semester 4 9 
.,#',..~~~--~ 
·lrlff\'f:t.fJ.ltJJt 1 tt;•tJ;t·~,,,...,,1\lrtr: .ltf;m 

~JNst'~-~ 
VOID MAY 21 1972 


have the help of some type of advisory board. "I don't like the idea of Chambers picking the Hi\'s on his own." 
The candidate also favored the idea of requiring prospective Hi\ 's to take 3-credit courses in fields like Psychology. He said that the Guidance and Counseling Center for Psychological Service had pledged their support if it is requested. 
Once again the candidate stressed the role of com­munication in an effective ad­ministration. "We plan to make full use of WSND and the Ob­st•J'\'l'l' in order to keep the students completely informed so that when support is needed for a particular issue, we will know immediately where it stands with the student body." 
Pledging to facilitate co­operation in the best way possible, Higgins concluded with the following: "We are asking for more than a vote on Thursday. We are asking for a commitment for now and for all of next year".. 




Monday, February 28, 1972 

THE OBSERVER 

by Jim McDermott Dziedzic claimed. assemPIY would be rotating Huddle 01 Rookstore would or necessary alternative to Dziedzic plans to revamp the among the members of the hall disrupt the periodic cash flow of economic or other pressures. present student government delEgation, it would be more the University, but cause no D~iedzic attributed many of the 
SBP candidate Paul Dziedzic stru<:ture to counteract this accountable to the residents of permanent damage. problems of the University to continued to stress the election problem. The Senate will be me hall, Dziedzic thought. He commented that he would intolerance and ignorance by theme of student rights and abolished and a Forum will be Heyond the structure of the respect someone who had the default. Since students have not responsibilities in room-to room established with llu section government, Dziedzic explained power of conviction to "turn in been chalhm,ged to be otherwise. 
campaigning in Badin Hall last leaders :~nd hali presidents as 
night. members. This Forum will meet 
Dziedzic emphasized that the monthly to discuss problems that 
student body must start to regard have been discussed in the halls 
issues such as .parietals or co-ed and sections, and seek to 
housing as matters of conviction, establish a mandate for action. 
not of convenience. "Student Individual hall delegations 
government must look to would caucus to determine the 
students to see how far we are' priorities that their hall wants in 
committed to rights an<} an issue. The delegation would 
responsibilities," he asserted. ' then select several of its mem­
bers to serve on a legislative
Student apathy was another assembly, with a "mandate forissue that Dziedzic discussed action."
during the evening. Students in every hall cared about the The assembly would serve the problems of the sch09l, but had same purpose as the Senate no idea what othe-r·s felt. "People presently does, according to asStl'i'lle-tfiaf the others are Dziedzic, but it would have a apathetic, but they're not. much better boss. Since the Everyone is in the dark with Forum would meet every month, respect to what _others think," and the membership on the 
Caruso, Pogge exchange words in surprise debate 
by Joseph Abell followed concerning Pogge's stand on parietals in Alumni Hall A member of Caruso's staff, an
An impromptu debate between Alumni Hall resident, questioned SBP candidate Gary Caruso and Pogge's stand saying that it wasSBVP hopeful Ron Pogge Sunday not representative of the hall
night brought out sharp dif­sentiment.
ferences in platform, and, on "I agreed with the Halloccasion, sharp tempers. 
Council, on that issue" PoggeThe debate occurred afer said. "They did not want toCaruso, campaigning in Stanford confront the Trustees onhall, confronted Pogge, also parietals, and I supported them." 
campaigning, with questions He also said he would do the
concerning campus-wide 
same if the student body sen­debates. 
timent went the same way on anA sharp tongued debate 
issue.
followed, including discussions of 
the issues of Caruso's Further debate pointed out theinolveement with sophomore differences of the two candidates' cars, Pogge's involvement with meanns of dealing with the Ad­Alumni Hall's parietal issue ministration.
earlier this year, and means of Pogge contended that the bestdealing with the Administration. 
means was throoogh student­Caruso charged that the Pogge suported protest. He said that 
. Higgins ticket was afraid to the best means to gain student 
debate before the entire student support was by keeping the 
b~y. 
students informd theourhh the 
"If you can't back up your campus media. 
platform before the students, how 
can you back it up before the "That student support can then 
Administration?" he said. be used as a tool to force the 
Pogge replied that a debate Administration's hand," he said. 
that included less than all the Caruso claimed that the 
candidates at once would be University was "image con­
"unfair" to the students. scious" and t h e most effective 
"Then we should line the way to confront the Ad­
candidates up in a row, and have ministration is to use national 
each one of them speak," mass media to show "just what 
Caruso said. "I don't care how Notre Dame is like." 
confusing that might be; at least "'All we have to do is to 
the students would have a chance threaten to call in NBC or CBS 
to hear them all at once." and the University will go along 
A short arguemnn then with us," he said. 
IN PERSON 


ANDY 
WILLIAMS 

HENRY 
MANCINI 
the methods that he would utilize. his ID and take a three day "The students are sexist and lie noted that economic pressure suspension for violation of a racist," he commented, but not of 
on the university would be the ridiculous rule." But he did not choice. We have just never been 
\.
most effective. Boycotts of the expect that this would be a viable challenged to be otherwise." 


PLACEMENT BUREAU 
JOB INTERVIEWS ARE OPEN TO NOTRE DAME AND ST. MARY'S SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS. ANY WHO INTENT TO PARTICIPATE IN THE INTERVIEWS MUST HAVE A COMPLETED REGISTRATION FORM ON FILE AT THE PLACEMENT BUREAU, ROOM 222, MAIN BUILDING. 
SIGN UP SHEETS FOR HALF-HOUR INTERVIEWS WILL BE AVAILABLE MONDAY, FEB~UARY 28, IN ROOM 207, MAIN BUILDING. SELECT YOUR OWN TIME AND SIGN YOUR NAME. ROOM 207 WILL BE OPEN 8:00 A.M. UNTIL 5:00 P.M., MONDAY THROUGH THURSDAY. 
EMPLOYER LITERATURE IS AVAILABLE ON THE LOWER SHELVES IN ROOM 207. TAKE A COPY TO READ AND STUDY. 
CONSULT THE PLACEMENT MANUAL FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REGARDING PLACEMENT BUREAU INTERVIEWS. 
Milrch. 6 DAYTON'S. Retail Department Store. BBA and MBA. Merchandising Asst. Minneapolis, 
Minn. Citizenship required. KANSAS CITY LIFE INS. CO. BBA or MBA. Candidate-EDP Division. Chicago-Northern Indiana. Citizenship required. 
KRAFTCO. MBA. 
NATIONAL BANK OF DETROIT. BBA for Branch Management. MBA for Commercial Loan Analyst. SCOTT PAPER~CO. BBA or MBA. KANSAS CITY LIFE INS. CO. BA or MA. Candidate EDP Division. Chicago-NNorthern 
Indiana. Citizenship required. NATIONAL BANK OF DETROIT. Lib. Arts for Branch Management. SCOTT PAPER CO. Lib. Arts for Sales Rep. KANSAS CITY LIFE INS. CO. All ·Engineering graduates. Candidate-EDP Division. 
Chicago-Northern Indiana. Citizenship required. KANSAS CITY LIFE INSURANCE CO. All Science majors. Candidate.EDP Division. Chicago-Northern Indiana. Citizenship required. March 7 
METROPOLITAN LIFE INSURANCE CO. MBA GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION. All BBA for Management Trainee. INDIANA BELL. BBA in Mgt., Fin. and MKt. (Students interested in other Bell System 
Companies, may leave resume orCollege Interview Form at Placement Office). 
GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION. Lib. Arts for Realty, Supply, Transportation Records and Property Fields. STATE FARM INSURANCE COS. Cancelled. GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION. B. of Arch. BS, MS in E.E., M.E. and C.E. PRATT & WHITNEY AIRCRAFT DIV. BS, MS in A.E. and M.E. (Positions available in 
Center near West Palm Beach, FLA. in addition to East Hartford location.) PRATT & WHITNEY AIRCRAFT. BS, MS in Math. March 7-8 BELL TELEPHONE LABORATORIES. BS, MS in Math. 
INDIANA BELL TELEPHONE CO. BS in Math. (Students interested in other Bell System Companies, may leave resume or College Interview Form at Placement Office). BELL TELEPHONE LABORATORIES. BS, MS in E.E. and M.E. INDIANA BELL TELEPHONE CO. BS in E.E., M.E. and Engr. Sci. (Students interested in 
other Bell System Companies may leave resume or College Interview Form at Placement Office. l WHEELING PITTSBURGH STEEL. CANCELLED. 
Milrch 9 CONNECTICUT GENERAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. BBAor MBA. FOSTER FORBES GLASS CO. Glass containers. BBA in Marketing. Sales. Chicago, D0troit, or other as openings arise. Citizenship required. 
KAUFMANN'S. CANCELLED. NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE. All BBA. New York City. Citizenship required. THE TRAVELERS INSURANCE CO. All BBA. AYR WAY STORES. BBA and MBA. CONNECTICUT GENERAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. Lib. Arts. FOSTER FORBES GLASS CO. GLASS CON TAl N ERS. Lib. Arts. Salesmen. Chicago, 
Df'lroit or other as openings arise. Citizenship required. KAUFMANN'S. CANCELLED. TRAVELERS INSURANCE CO. Lib. Arts. il T E IMPERIAL CORP. CANCELLED. THE TRAVELERS INSURANCE COMPANY. BS in Math. AYR WAY STORES. BS in M.E.I.O. CONNECTICUT MUTUAL Ll FE INS. CO. All Science majors. CONNECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. Lib. Arts. OUN & BRADSTREET INC. Lib. Arts. CONNECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INS CO. BBAand MBA. OUN & RRADSTREET INC. All BBA. liMC COLSON. Manufacturer, Distributor of Calendars, Specialties and Gifts. BBA in 
Markctinq. Soles. Nationwide. Citizenship required. 
Ticket Prices: Blnchii'S ••• $3.00 Low1r lr••·$6.50 
Loce, and •••$7.50 Mlin Floor •d Plllforms$7.50 
TICkets on sale It 
NOTRE DAME A. C;C. Mon. • Sat. 9-5 St. Joe Bank and Branches First Bank 
lllliltlliCitiiJ 
Robertson's Elkhart Truth 
Paul Dziedzic emphasizes_ student rights 
Monday, February 28, 1972
THE OBSERVER. 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
F.dltor-ln-Cblef, Glen s~ Corso Aulstaa& E4ltor Assistant Editor 
All _10uccessful newspapers are r..t~aselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend
Baalaeu Ma..ger anyoneor anything If they can help Advertising Manager 
T.C. Treanor John Abowd 
The new season opens rmmnmmmrmmnnm
Jim Jendryt. It; If the lob is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle . It by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Predictions

Business: 283-7471 News: 283-1715 

The endorsements ­
Seymour-Welte 
There is only one ticket at St. Mary's. There are only two people who even begin to understand the distinction between problems unique to SMC and problems in which both campuses have a stake. There are only two people with the expertise and sophistication which student government 
demands. There are only two people who understand the effective use of student power. The Observer endorses Jean Seymour and Sue Welte for the offices of SBP and SBVP at St. Mary's. 

Seymour and Welte understand that student interests are advanced neither by petty flaming nor by depriving students of the information necessary to make in­dependent rational decisions. There are only two ways to build student power into effective action: 1) Build an informed student body, and 2) Ally with other segments of the college such as sympathetic faculty. From this base and only from this base can the student causes be advanced. Clearly, this is the most effective approach. Even more clearly, Jean Seymour and Sue Welte alone understand this approach. 

Dziedzic-Sherrod 
Notre Dame does not face as easy a situation as does St. Mary's. There are nine men running for Student Body President here, and several of them present im­pressive credentials. Among the nine, however, one man stands out with varied experience, innovative ideas, and a con­sciousness of the problems that will con­front Notre Dame in the coming year. Paul Dziedzic is the man who shows the most ability to be President in the next year. 
The Student body in the past year has been condemned for its apathy, the student 

_•.;., government for its inaction, and the ad­ministration for its paternalism. Dziedzic recognizes these problems, and has presented the best plan to institute changes needed. His challenge tostudents to accept themselves as adults, and his plan to in­volve section leaders in decision making through the Forum are realistic ideas, and most worthy of action during the year. 
Dziedizc has demonstrated his ability and willingness to work in his capacity os Ombudsman during the past year, and service as an at-large member of the St. Mary's Student Assembly. 
The next year will be a difficult one for Notre Dame. We will be struggling to become a coeducational school, while still hoping for unification with St. Mary's. The issues of hall autonomy, visitation hour sanctions, and academic reform will require cohesive and well­articulated student opinionn. 
The Observer believes that Paul Dziedzic is the man to lead this opinion. 
um1mmmmnmnmnnmmnnnmmmmmnn T. C. Treanor 
The last hurrah of the hon. Maureen Rogers yesterday evening was bathed in a rather sad light. In her conference, Miss Rogers, in many ways the most articulate candidate going on either campus, concluded that St. Mary's was no place to be Student Body President or, or even be a part of. She had seen three departments at breakdown time and was seeing two more breaking down because of the unmerger. 
And in a larger sense, despite mumbled pieties (The Merger is Going On l she saw a whole College at breakdown time·.· She·found an administration secretive, dishonest, and unconcerned about the student body. And she found Sister Alma -God bless her Grand­motherly, oft-defended heart -in O'Laughlin Auditorium, denying students the information they had a right to know -the details about the merger at breakdown time -because she thought the students were too young or too stupid to understand them. 
So-the inevitable conclusion. Miss Rogers is going to try to get into Notre Dame; if she can'tshe'll go somewhere else. Yet you can't fault her; it wasn't anything viable that she was abandoning. You just kind of sit back and sigh. St. Mary's loses one more intelligent and talented student. Alas. So it goes. 
To less galling things: The curious slowdown of the Higgins can­didacy plus some fortuitous endorsements has placed the most bon. Pul Dziedzic on the top of this year's mad scramble for SBP. There's just one night of flaming to go, and the trailers are going to have to come on strong if they are going to bump themselves into the runoff. The chief intellect of one of the camps suggested that the first-ballot leader will get less than 30 per cent; I tend to agree with him. If Dziedzic can avoid any more commode-flushing statements it looks like he will be sitting on top of the nine-man field; after that it gets even more heated. 
This election, incidentally, isn't working out like it was supposed to. At: all. Nobody's pulled away-a madman in a crown leads the field in the polls. Nor has it worked out like any o!,her election since the great Murphy:Q'Dea-Massina brohumma of '67 in which more than two candidates were strong.· 
Now for the rest of the field, as it looks the last time around: 

Marginal pick: SLC rep Floyd Kezele to make the runoffs -barely. By and large, he's impressed people; although he and his running mate have both been made uncomfortable-Kezele by Carus's largely false charges and Jones by Ed Motto's Inquisition. However, his organization's still messy-he lacks hall captains in a couple of halls. 
Bob Kersten -the prime mover who runs with his cat -is the man Kezele will have to edge out to make the runoffs. Kersten has done extremely well in every poll anyone has take this year -I here include the polls the candidates themselves take. But a telephone call is different from the real thing. Try it yourself. Make a random call; ask who the guy's voting for. Eventually you'll hear the guy say, Kersten, Kersten, yeah!" and a whole bunch of people in the background say, "Yeah, Kersten!" But put the same guy in the privacy of his own corner of the hall, ballot and pencil in hand. He'll start thinking about Student Union and La'Fortune dances and Football weekends and his $16.00 activities fee, and it's my guess that the Prime Mover's vote will go out the window. 
After that it may trail off, unless Higgins pulls a biggie on Monday night. The only thing that could have gone wrong with his well­organized campaign did: he couldn't come across well in the halls. His platform seemed confusing; I've seen better-written jobs myself. His organization is still potent, but it now looks as though he will take the pipe. 
.. For space's sake, I'll give the rest of my predictions in order: Caruso, who's been impressive but has his past to contend with; Luken, who's worn himself out and gets weaker every day; Schlosser, whose mixed-media campaign has entertained but not converted; Cunningham, who'll take Dillon and nowhere else; and Thomas, who may not even get his running-mate. None of theAbovewon't make a splash. 
Oh-and at St. Mary's, Seymour and Welte in a cakewalk. 
Staff  
Night Editors: Jim Roe, Maria Gallagher Assistant Night Editor: Carol Weiss Layout: Joe Abell, Glen Corso  Day Ediotr: Tom Bohrnholt Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Most Indispensable Typists: Helen Smudski, rick smith  

Monday, February 28, 1972 


Candidate Scorecard • • • 
• • • to make everything perfectly clear 

JOE SCHLOSSER 
running-mate: Lincoln Soldati year: Junior previous elective positions: none previous appointive positions: none platform: Pledges to "act for student rights, for self-determination, and for liberation." Says he wants education at Notre Dame to "stimulate the student to become an open-minded, in· dependant. self-determined human being." Also says he seeks to "create an exciting cultural atmosphere." Says he will "provide time, space, information and funds to the thousands of artists whose frustrated energies lie untapped." Suggests 
"Music sessions, poetry readins, crafts workshops -student initiated, student coordinated, or spontaneous." 
previous elective positions: none previous appointive positions: none platform: Proposes to "regain confidance" in Student Government by ··satisfying basic student needs and gripes." Contends "the most basic need centers around social life." Proposes a "stvdent entertainment center in LaFortune;" argues for "use of Stephan Center for more fun"; calls for "coed splash par­ties; wants "campus kickoff parties for Badin and Walsh"; proposes "halloween weekend"; proposes a "winter won­derland" festival; calls for "carnival nights" in the dining 11all; wants a "country-fair type carnival" on the Notre Dame qrounds; a Notre Dame skit night at Washington hall; a ;nuscle beach party at St. Joe with "hot dogs and hot fun." 
GARY CARUSO 
running-mate: Bob Long year: Junior previous elective positions: member, SMC student assembly. previous appointive positions: Sophomore and Junior Class Executive Coordinators: member of Strike Publicity Com· mittee; Co-Ex dining director platform: Would "back Alumni Hall residents unconditionally in their stand for no hours in pubI ic places." Get "the ACC back for the Student's use; "Immediate merger; hits University In· vestments; calls for "student action;'' promises "initiative for change;" says he has and will "take an issue; research it; and present the students with the facts." 
previous elective positions: none previous appointive positions: Campus Omsbudsman platform: Wants to "Challenge the student body," says he will "kick ass where there is fat ass· and that includes the students" wants to form legislative body out of all the hall presidents, all the section leaders, and 9 off-campus representatives to mediate the "politics of conviction". Confrontation a valid tactic "when the Administration decides to enforce a decision repugnant to the students, or when we are not a part of the decision-making process." Wants "definite committment" to recruitment of minority women. Pledges to return "$20,000.00 to $25,000.00 back to the halls (the figure depending on the size of the student government debt. l )" Calls continued merger efforts "imperitive."; Wants reestablishment of Academic Greivence 

Board. 
FLOYD KEZELE 


running-mate: Milt Jones year: Junior previous elective positions: SLC towers representative (two­term); Vice-Chairman of SLC. previous appointive positions: none platform: Pledges to "open up" Student Government to the students; would submit new constitution which would "give the student body president more time to spen with the students;" would raise student activity fee $5.00; giving $2.00 per person back to each hall; retaining 40 percent of that fund for a general hall improvement treasury; spending 20 percent for La Fortune rennovation; de-emphasize large social gatherings in favor of "More TGIF'S and 'Over the Hills' (Here and at St. Mary's); Outdoor concerts and movies; wants to break SLC up into smaller personel whose thinkings are somewhat atuned to that of the student body." Wants to extend pass-fail option to Fresh. man year; exchange programs with minority . group Universities and with other American Universities. 
BOB KERSTEN 

running-mate: Uncandidate the Cat year: Sophomore previous elective positions: alternate 7th grade homeroom rep. previous appointive positions: prime mover platform: Appointment of "l'm-a-Bud-Man" and a Committee for Redundancy Committee. Wants takeover of the Observer and WSND "in order that the Truth, the whole Truth, and nothing but the Truth would be kept from the students"; would have "Uniform quality drugs at reasonable prices." Contends "Reality is just. an escape from drugs" Wants lottery to determine scholarships; would replace Security Director with Grand Inquisitor and Brain Police; wants Rocka-Rocka discotheque on campus, calls for "recruitment of more heterosexuals and other minority groups," want to convert Fieldhouse to crematorium to eliminate problems of displaced students, and much, much more. 


BOB HIGGINS 

running-mate: Ron Pogge year: Junior previous elective positionsZ: Badin Hall Vice-president (two terms l previous appointive positions: Hall Life Commissioner Platform: "Dissatisfied with the performance of student government" this year and past years. Contends that past student govern­ments hav not included the students in important decisions. Proposes the "development of student power" along three lines 1) keeping students informed, 2) "expanding" the power base to include coalitions with St. Mary's student government and faculty of both campuses. 3) using this power base to "move" on issues of concern to students. Running on a coalition ticket with Jean Seymour and Sue Welte at St. Mary's. 
CHUCK LUKEN 
running-mate: Walt Spak year: Junior previous elective positions: Pangborn Hall Senator previous appointive positions: none· platform: Doesn't believe that "person with the best credentials is best suited for the job." Calls for "freshness of approach." to "restore lost momentum." Believes that 72-73 year is "crucial for ND." Believes that students should elect the one "who indicates action." 

DENNIS THOMAS 


running-mate: Mike Reimers year: Junior previous elected positions: none previous appointive positions: none platform: Calls for "reform of hall life" to include establishment of academic halls. Pledges creation of off-campus student government to take a place on HPC. Proposes the establish­ment of a Community University with a volunteer speaker corps on "sensitive national issues." Wants pressure on ad­ministration to explain "hold-up of ND-SMC merger." Wants University administration restructured to divide fund raising activites and "everyday problems of students." Raise minority endowment to $6 million; hire Spanish-speaking recruiter. Wants Senate abolished and legislation by HP with off-campus representation. 
NONE OF THE ABOVE 
platform: Contends that "it is no time for students to be burdened by the confusing bureaucracy of the present government. Claims that "the situation demands changes and leadership," that they are not present in current candidates. Claims that "our interests will be governed by the administration." Argues that a "none" 
0

vote is an objection to the ticket; shows "discontent without apathy." "We cannot afford to abstain as in the past." 
EILEEN FITZPATRICK 


running-mate: Mary Orr year: Junior previous elected positions: SMC Student Assembly previous appointive positions: none platform: 
1) self-determination: "right to direct own lives;" including goving SAC and AAC "ultimate power in their respective areas." 2) academic reform: "flexibility in cirriculum," 4-1-4 calendar to include independent study over Christmas vacation, experimental college, broader exchange programs, continued co-ex classes. 3) "creation of total environment:" inclusion of "racial, ethnic, religious and economic minorities;" encouraged "the investigation into various outlooks such as Gay Liberation, Women's liberation." Favors creation of SMC Ombudsman, establishment of bi-weekly newsletter and "greater use of present media." Supports health service improvements, hall autonomy and "expansion of coffeehouse." View merger as "crucial issue". Promises to use "every avenue" to achieve this goal. 
JEAN SEYMOUR 
running mate: Sue Welte year : Junior previous elective positions: SMC Academic Affairs Com­missioner previous appointive positions: none platform: Demand "immediate placement of student representation on both the negotiating and inter-institutional teams concerning merger." Insist on public release of information leading to another severance of merger negotiations. Propose alter­natives if merger is not achieved: "1) development of progressive liberal arts college. 2) introduction of para­medical fields." 3) "strengthening of all departments, and 4) offering of special women's courses." Promises to work against goving another C.S.C. the position of College 
President. Proposes westablishment of Hall Life Fund using SG budget surplus. Also favors 24 hour open lounges, coffee house, revision of sign-out procedure, 35-40 parietals, hiring of professional gynecologist. Long range projects include "laying groundwork" for a swimming pool and renovation of gym. Running on a coalition with Bob Higgins and Ron Pogge at N D. 


Monday, February 28, 1972

Page 6 THE OBSERVER 


world
. 


briefs 
<Cl New York Times News Service 

1\lan. w. \'a.--Gov. Arch A. Moore of West Virginia said that the death toll from the flash flood in Logan County on Saturday could reach a "couple of hundred." Several hundred persons were still missing. and the state police said an accurate count of the dead might not be possible for several days . 
('llJW Kt•mwdy, Fla.--The launching of Pioneer 10, an American ~pace creft designed to explore Jupiter was delayed Sunday because of high winds and a momentary power failure at the launching pad. No new launching time was announced. 
Washington--Ralph Nader announced the formation of a national organization of retired professionals that will attack such problems as housing, taxes, medical care, consumer fraud, nursing homes and pensions. The group's first priority will be the problems of the elderly. 
Washington--Pension reform legislation designed to guarantee and broaden retirement benefits for workers will be passed this year, the Democratic and Republican Leaders of the Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare pledged. One feature of their proposed bill is a guarantee of some pension rights even if a worker left a firm before retirement age. 
on campus today 
7: 30--duplicate bridge, flanner hall, students and faculty welcome. 
6: 30--lecture, crestes brownson society, "god and man at notre dame." prof. thomas werge, faculty dining room in south dining hall. 
B: 00--ox pedaI, Iafortune student center. 

'More joint activities' 

Kezele: continued cooperation bet"Ween ND-SMC 
by Jim Dixon 
Student body President hopeful Floyd Kezele campaigned on the North Quad last nigQt, holding section to section meetings with the students and fielding questions on his platform 
"We're going to take the ball in our own hands and get things rolling," were Kezele's words, in regard to his stand on financing student life. To begin with, the present contract concerning use of the A.C.C. "needs to be renegotiated," Kezele said. Kezele wants the present ceiling of $9,000 in profits completely removed. 

This profit along with the $24,000 which would be grossed from his proposed increase in the student activities fee would be used both directly for hall im­provements and for the renovation of ths Student Union, he asserted. The basement of the Student Union would then be used for "folk festivals, rock festivals, and things of this nature," ac­cording to Kezele. 
Kezele also stated that he "would like to see more joint activities held at St. Mary's "in the coming year."' This might eliminate the present need of bringing girls in from outside of the campus and help foster a greater community spirit, he commented. 
In academic affairs, Kezele sees the opportunity of pass-fail options being open to freshmen in coming years. "1he Arts and 

Luken wins WSND endorsement 

by Mikl' O'Hare 
Buoyed by their WSND en­dorsement, Chuck Luken and Walt Spak are continuing their door to door campaign for SBP and SBVP. 
"Students are reproducing the bureaucracy every year," states Luken. "In order to get out of the bureaucracy you are going to need a fresh approach." He feels that he and his running mate offer the student body this fresh approach. 

SBVP candidate Walt Spak believes that "the main thing wrong with student government is that it is not representing the students." He cites the system employed in Sorin hall as a remedy to this situation. "In Sorin. section leaders go door to door and see exactly how the residents feel on certain issues." 
"Spak would like to implement this plan on a University-wide basis. He stated that if elected, Luken and he would work through the Hall presidents 

Welte: cooperation 
(Continued from page 1) 
courses are currently beinmg researched to determine their feasibility here, they said. 
"Of course, this can't be all accomplished in a· year," Ms. Seymour pointed out. "But it is a definite future possibility, and it's not too early to start lying the ground work." She further hinted that with the addition of a well-developed curriculum, ther was a possibility that SMC would go co-ed on its own. 
Ms. Seymour also hinted that, since anything at all is a possibility, there was the very definite possibility that weekly excursions could be made during the wintry months from st. marys to acapulco, with studentw given a thousand dollars and free bihh control pills to boot. Or, since anything is a possibility, she said the whole damn campus maight be moved down to acapulco. 

"of course all this cant be done in a year, she said. We might juust have to settle fro palm springs this year. 
Seymour told the students that she and Ms. Welte plan to spend most of the summer here making preparations for next year. 
tuhural Arts Commission's (:in t'llHl ·72 p rt•s t'll t 
''Barren Lives'' 
Sun. & Mon. Feb. 27 & 28 
JH•rfurmanee Sun. 2 & 8 pm times 
Mon. 7 & 9 pin 
Cinen1a "72 Admis!iiion $1.00 
Patrons Frt'f.. 
section leaders to get an accurate idea of how the student body felt about certain issues. Such a system would have two ad­vantages according to Spak: it would make the Administration lake student government seriously, and for the first stime students would be part of student government. 

"It is necessary to get people involved," said Spak. "Making student govermment more personal would give it more legitimacy." Spak said that they have run their campaign in the same way that Chuck Luken and himself would runs tudent government, citing their door to door campaign and survey as proof of their desire to return to a referendum style of govern­ment. 
Letters student might be able to 
lake his math and science pass­
fail while the Science major 
would have the option in his Arts 
and Letters courses." 
When asked if freshmen would 
be able to adapt to this system, 
the candidate pointed out that 
such institutioins as Rutgers and 
MIT used it and there have been 
no difficulties. 
Also in the academic field is Kezele'splan for an expansion of the present exchange program with other universities. The exchange would be on a one semester basis, with all credits being transferable. Kezele noted that this association with other American universities would give the student an idea of the outside world and help him realize that "when he gets out of hree is he not going to have this type of community." 
"It doesn't look good at all for the Merger" said Kezele. He noted a need for continued cooperation with St. Mary's in­cluding continuing the present co­ex course program. The can­didate called for a renewed in­volvement by the students of both campuses in the affairs of student government and a "self­determination" on the part of the students to make that govern­mennt effective. 
Questions were posed regar­ding the candidate's position paper dealing with the proposed stiff fines on electrical appliances by the university. Kezele replied that since the students of the newer residence halls are already paying higher room ann already have the necessary wiring for lese appliances, the fines should not be applied university wide. 

NEED EXTRA CASH?? 
IF YOU
Are mature Have a car Can work 12-15 hours per week buring normal business hours Can communicate with the business man Enjoy direct selling 

We would like to talk with you about the great opportunities in selling our fine Phone Accessory Equipment. For appointment call COM-U-TROL--287 -8711 





SMC Elections Toes., Feb. 29 
Voting: 11 am -6pm 
Voting will be in your own halls. Off-campus students will vote in 
Madeleva. 

Monday, February 28, 1972 THE. OBSERVER. 


Irish sweep pair from Michigan 

by Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 

Irish hockey coach Lefty Smith hasn't had much to smile about during the past few weeks but he was beaming this weekend after Notre Dame combined a 16-goal offensive barrage wth some classy goaltending to defeat Michigan twice and snap an eight-game losing streak. 
"It's been a while since I've been this happy," Smith said Saturday after watching his club trounce the Wolverines for the second night in a row, 9-4. The Irish had breezed to a 7-2 win on l''riday. 
The victories enabled the Irish to boost their WCHA record to 9­15 (13-17 overall) and climb from ninth place into a tie for seventh in the league standings. Notre Dame and Colorado College, which split with Denver over the weekend, each have 26 title points, while Michigan, which fell to ninth place, has 24 points. The Wolverines are now 10-16 on the year. 
"We played extremely well against Michigan," Smith commented. "We put on good offensive pressure and played well defensively. I think we could have beaten anyone this weekend." 
Smith had words of praise for many of the Irish after their winning performances, especially. goalie Mark Kronholm who thwarted Michigan scoring threats on numerous occasions. 
"Mark did a fine job for us," Smith said. "He played well at Wisconsin and Denver the past few weeks and was outstanding this weekend." 
Creighton coasts by ND cagers 
by Eric Kinkopf 

The Creighton Bluejays pulled away from Notre Dame late in the first half of Saturday night's game in Omaha, Nebraska's Civic Auditorium and coasted through the second half, handing the Irish their seventeenth set­hack of the season, 104-77. 
Dominating the boards, and displaying a well balanced scoring attack, the Jays made short work of the Irish while recording their fifteenth win of the season and boosting their home court record to 11-1. 
The Rluejays streaked to a 12-6 lead early in th~ half, but Gary Novak kept the Irish in the game with a nine point outburst and eventually cut the lead to five, 37­:l2. late in the first stanza. 
But. at that point, Gene I<:llefson. who had 21 total points for the game. and Ralph Bobick who scored 23, took control, and stretched the Creighton lead to thirteen. 45-32 with 1 :47left in the half. 
That Rluejay burst, in which 
they outscored the Irish 8-o, iced 
the game for coach Eddie Sutton­
s boys. Creighton took a 50-36 
advantage into the lockerroom 
and expanded it in the second 
half. 

The Bluejays, who came into 
the contest with four players 
averaging in double figures, had 
five players in the magic column 
in their victory over the Irish. 

Besides Bobick and Ellefson, 
the Jay's got solid performances 
from <~ene Harmon, 17 points, 
Ted Wuebben. 13 points, and AI 
Lewis. 11. 

Everyone on the Creighton 
squad scored, except Wayne 
lleinrich. as Sutton emptied his 
bench late in the second half. 

As usual. the Irish were paced 
in scoring by Gary Rovak and 
Tom O'Mara. 

"Goose", tied for game honors 
Wolverine coach AI Renferw was also impressed with the soph netminder's play, remarking, "I thought he was great. He covers both corners real well. He goes down a little bit, but he makes the saves, and that's all that counts." 
Kronholm, who made a total of fi5 saves in the series, was par­ticularly sharp Friday night, holding Michigan scoreless for two periods, before giving up a pair of goals in the final session. 
And, while Kronholm was keeping the Wolverines in check, the Irish were rolling up a commanding lead. 
John Noble started things for the Irish, scoring on a rebound of an Eddie Bumbacco shot just 3:09 after the opening faceoff. 
Neither team was able to do much offensively after that until late in the period when Notre Dame scored on a three-on-two break. Defenseman Bill Nyrop carried the puck up ice and dropped a pass in the slot for Paul Began. who whipped the puck past Wolverine goalie Karl Bagnell into the lower left corner. 
Freshman winger Ray DeLorenzi upped the Notre Dame lead to 4-o with a pair of second period goals. DeLorenzi tipped in a Bill Green slap shot from the left point at 3:09 and scored again, on a two-on-one break, at 6:35. John Campbell slid a perfect pass across the crease to DeLorenzi who deflected the puck past Bagnell. 

The Wolverines spoiled Kronholm 's shutout bid with a tainted goal early in the last period. Kronholm had stopped a shot by Bucky Straub, coming in 
' 
-~..A 

Gary Novak once again led the 1:-ish in scoring, netting 23 points in a 
~ 


IRISH ELATION!' John Campbell exults after scoring against Michigan. Notre Dame beat the Wolverines twice over the weekend at the ACC, winning 7-2 Friday night and 9-4 on Saturday. 
on a two-on-one break, but the puck caromed back out in front and bounced off the leg of the onrushing Frank Warner, past Kronholm and into the net. 
But the Irish put the game beyond Michigan's reach with a pair of goals in the space of only :n seconds, midway through the stanza. 
Nyrop drilled home a shot from the left point at 8:55 and Noble popped in a short shot from in front of the net at 9:26. 
Paul-Andre Paris made the score 6-2 wilh a power play goal at 11:44 and Notre Dame's Ian Williams closed out the scoring with a shot from the left side at 13:34. 
Michigan challenged the Irish Saturday night, despite falling three goals behind in the early 
losing t'ffort against Creighton. with Creighton's Bobick, scored 2:! points. hitting on 10 of 17 from the field and 3 of 4 from the line. Tommy "0" played his usual solid game. tallying 17 points while John Egart added 13, and Willie Townsend scored 10. The Jays outshot Notre Dame from the field, 91-77, and out percentaged the Irish 44 percent to 40 percent. The Irish were whistled for 35 fouls in the contest, with the _.Jays converting on 68 percent of their charity tosses, while Creighton committed only 22 personals with the Irish hitting on fin percent of the free throws. 
Creighton completely dominated the boards outrebounding Notre Dame 64-40. 
Ted Wuebben and 'Gene Har­mon grabbed thirteen bounds .1 piece for the Jays, while Fllefson and Bobick collared 10 each. 
( ;ary Novak was the only Irish player in double rebounding figures. picking off 13. 
The crowd in the Civic auditorium was the largest ·'Jaybacker" turnout of the season. as 6,942 watched the Blujays up their season mark to l!'i-9. 
The loss dropped the Notre llame record to 6-17. 
action. but Notre Dame just had too much talent for the Wolverines and steadily pulled away. 
Noble again scored the first goal in the game, taking a nice pass in front from Williams and putting the puck into the upper right corner of the net with the game only 40 seconds old. 
Bumbacco scored two minutes later, gunning home his own rebound, and, when Regan picked up a power play goal on a rebound of a Noble shot at 7:42, it looked as if the Irish might run away with the game. 
The Wolverines temporarily stopped that sort of thinking by 





OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Pages 7 and H 
ND's Fanning, Komar qualify for NCAA's 
by "Lefty" Ruschmann Irish wrestling coach Terry Mather had been waiting all season to see how his ace heavyweight, Mike Fanning, would do against the tough competition of the NCAA qualifying round. Mather was anything but disappointed as big Mike continued to dominate his opponents, picking up three wins, boosting his season total to 23, and capturing first place in his division. Both Fanning and teammate Hick Komar, who wrestled at 177 pounds, earned trips to the University of Maryland for the NCAA championships on March 9-11. Komar finished third in his class. good enough to qualify under NCAA rules. A third Notre Dame wrestler, Fritz Bruenig, won an laternate berth in the finals by coming in fourth in the 1!'>8 pound division. After drawing a first-round bye, Fanning met Tom Hunt of the University of _Wisconsin at Milwaukee and pinned him at 
2: l!'i of the match. In the quarterfinals against Larry Malinowski of Central Michigan, Fanning took an early lead and coasted to an 11-3 decision. 
Fanning took on the University of Buffalo's Tony Policare in the final match, called by Mather, ''the most exciting match of the entire tournament." Policare, undefeated coming into the tournament, posted a 2-o lead with a first period takedown, and Fanning counter with an escape. In the second period, Policare tried to slow things down and maintian his lead, after an escape gave him a 3-1 advantage. Match officials docked Policare for stalling however, to make the score 3-2. 
After escaping in the final stanza, to tie the bout, both wrestlers came close to breaking the tie, but neither succeeded until Fanning took down Policare with 10 seconds remaining to nail down a 5-3 victory and the regional championship. 
Komar scored an opening­round win over Dave Bostelman of Morehead State by an 1-2 decision, but Marquette's Keith Koziczkowski ambushed Rick in the quarterfinals. 11-1. 
Under tourney rules, Komar was relegated to the losers' bracket. where he wrestled to a third place finish. After disposing of Chris Redder of Eastern Kentucky, 6-4, he went onto defeat Pat Carver of the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee, 6-4. Hick decided the match early scoring a first-period takedown and near-fall for a 5-o lead, and followed it up with a second­period escape. 
Bruening likewise went to the final match of the losers' bracket, but then lost to Paulis Johnson of Appalachian State, 13-3. 
scoring only five seconds after Began's goal. After Randy Neal won the ensuing faceoff, Pete Dunbar got the puck and fired from mid-ice. Irish goalie Dick Tomasoni, who started the game but was replaced by Kronholm after the first period because he was having a problem with his depth perception, was fooled by the shot, and the puck nestled in the lower left corner of the net. 
Michel Jarry closed the gap to :J-2 scoring on a slap shot from the blue line at 12:33 while the Irish were shorthanded, but Regan gave the Irish some breathing room when he notched his second goal of the night with three minutes left in the period. 

Second period goals by Camp­bell and Williams pretty much decided things in favor of the Irish, although there was plenty of scoring yet to come. 
Campbell lit the red' light at 
li: 22 and Williams deflected home a Noble shot at 17:44.~ 
Straub made it a 6-3 game with a goal at 18:20 but Noble beat Bagnell with a slap shot from the right side just 49 seconds into the third period to restore Notre Dame's four-goal advantage. 
Bernie Gagnon answered Noble's tally with a score of his own 21 seconds later, but the Irish picked up the last two goals of the game. Bumbacco scoring at 7:55 and Larry Israelson at 10:31. 
The Irish will wind \ up their regular season schedule with a four-point series on home ice next weekend against MichiganState. 

.. 
Page. THE OBSERVER. Monday, February 28, 1972 
CLASSIFIED ADS
ND five visits So. Carolina 
by Vic Dorr Notre Dame's often­overmatched basketball team faces another tall challenge tonight when it takes on the South Carolina Gamecocks in an 8:00 gaml' in Columbia, S.C. The two teams aren't exactly strangers, but the basketball program at the University of South Carolina has changed quite a bit since the Gamecocks and the Irish met the ACC a year ago. Since thl'n, South Carolina has withdrawn from the Atlantic ( 'oast Conference, and now looms as an at-large independent. Coach Frank McGuire's roster has undergone a change, too, for the c;amecocks lost three star­tl'rS to graduation last spring. • All American guard John Hoche. three-time Atlantic Coast Conference rebounding champ Tom Owens. and big John Ribock have departed from the South Carolina lineup after ll'ading the team to a 69-16 record over the past three seasons. But Frank McGuire has found adequate replacements for his departed stars, and the <;aml'cocks are approaching the end of their schedule with a 19-4 record, and with their sights set 
on a second consecutive ap­pl'arance in the NCAA playoffs. South Carolina won its first seven gamps this year, before suffering back-to-back one-point losses to Villanova \77-76> and Marquette <72-71 l. The other two U.S.C. losses this season have come at thl' hands of Iowa (91-85) and 
llouston \95-85>. 
Physically, the current squad of Gamecocks does resemble its predecessors. McGuire's team is 
NlXOll returns 
from China 
by Max Frankel 
(c) 1972 New York Timt>s 
Shanghai, China, Monday Feb. 28.-President Nixon and Premier Chou En-Lai concluded a week of unusual negotiations here today and parted with pledges to arrange a gradual American withdrawal from Taiwan and a gradual increase in their own official, unofficial and com­mercial dealings. 
The communique alternated bE-tween statements of agreement and separate statements of divergent position, a technique that is not uncommon in diplomacy but which was applied rather extensively by the two leaders. 
The document said on behalf of the United States that "Taiwan is a part of China." It committed the United States not to challenge that contention, which is made by both the Communist and Nationalist Chinese. It reported Washington's desire for a peaceful settlement "by the Chinese themselves" and with that "prospect in mind" asserted the president's "ultimate ob­jective of the withdrawal of all 
U.S. forces and military in­stallations from Taiwan." 
Nixon promised that in the meantime. but without a timetable, the 8,000 man American garrison on the island would be progressively reduced as the tension in the area diminishes. Almost all those troops have been placed there in support of the fighting in South Vietnam but the Nixon ad­ministration appears now to be <>armarking them for diplomatic use in the developing relationship with China. 
big and rough, and features 
accurate shooting from nearly 
l'very position. The South 
Carolina front line goes 6-10, 7-0, 
li-7. and the backcourt is 6-2, 6-4. 
l\1ost of the Gamecock's inside 
strength come from the duo of 6­
10 senior forward Tom Riker and 
7-0 junior center Dannv Travlor. 
Riker is Carolina's leading scorer, with an average of 19.0 points per game, and Traylor is averaging 14.7. The two are just as effective off the boards. Traylor is the team's leading rebounder (11.4), but Riker is only fractions behind him (11.1). 
The other forward is 6-7 senior Hick Aydlett. His rebounding totals are less than those of Riker and Traylor <7.0), but he is an accurate shooter and is averaging 10.9 points. 
The South Carolina backcourt slot is filled by another un­derclassman--6-4 sophomore Brian Winters. Winters, who is averaging close to ten points a gaml'. is another good shooter. llis hot hand in Saturday's game against Davidson was the main reason for Carolina's 88-82 triumph. 
li-2 senior guard Bob Carver is the Camecock's sixth man. He has appeared in every one of S.C'. 's games ·this season, and is sporting a li.6 scoring average. 
As a learn. the Gamecocks are scoring !l2.1 points a game and allowing 70.8. They are shooting 49.:J per cent from the field and 
74.2 per cent from the line, and both of these marks are above l'xisting U.S.C. records. 
"South Carolina speaks for itself." sid Irish coach Digger Phelps as he considered the job that faces his team tonight. The Irish. following Saturday's loss to Creighton. are 6-17 with only three outings left on the schedule. They will come into tonight's game with a streak of three consecutive losses <to North 
Movie 
Carolina. Fordham, and < 'reighton l and will be hard­pressed to break their string at South Carolina's expense. 
The Irish will be led tonight, as they have been all season, by the front line pair of Gary Novak and Tom O'Mara. Novak is averaging 19.6 points a game for Nil. and O'Mara is right behind him with a mark of 18.3. Novak also leads the Irish in reboun­ding. and he is seconded in that department by Willie Townsend. 
At the beginning of the season, Nll coach Digger Phelps promised that his sqad would "surprise" a few of its highly­rated opponents. The (;amecocks are ranked eighth in one wire-service poll and ninth in another. and they are one of the last chances that the Irish will have to "surprise" anyone. 
On paper. there don't figure to be any surprise in tonight's game. 
Hut Digger Phelps may have soml'thing to say about that before the evening is over. After all. thelast team to surprise last year's (;amecocks--who were the Atlantic Coast Conference champions--was Digger Phelps' Fordham Hams. 
Weekend 



Scores 
Fencing 
N.D. 19 Illinois 8 N.D. 17 Wisconsin 10 N.D. 21 Indiana 6 N.D. 23 Purdue 4 

Swimming 
N.D. 59 No. Il!inois 64 N.D. 56 Marshall 57 

Track 
N.D. flO West. Mich. 71 


Details tomorrow 

CHE 
WASH lNG TON HALL 
FEB. 27 2-9 28 9 29 7-9 
ADM. $1.00 


SMORGASBORD 
Every Monday 5-9 pm $1.25 · All you can. eat 
Every Wednesday evening 
$1.00 PITCHER NIGHT AND LIVE ENTERT~INMENT 
Every Friday night 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
Every Saturday night POLKA BAND·DANCING 

Open Weekdays 1'1 a.m. -12 p.m. 


LAUREL &HARDY· 
PIZZA .P~LACE 
4ti10Westem Ave. Belleville Shoppin1 c"enter 
Phone 289-7983 
WANTED 

lEAD OR RHYTHM GUITARI·ST ~EEKING ROCK BAND. CALL I<. I-N 8648. 
f1t·spPrillc>ly need ride to Clf'velnnd this weekend. MARC.· A7-l6. 
~~·<~ntcd ride to denver for spring hrP,1k riln lc>ave almost anytime·· pff',lSC' call chip -8256. 
1we:> SMC qirls to share fantastic tour ll('droom house next year. .lo1ek or Mike 233-3920. 
POETRY WANTED for An· tholoqy. Include stamped €ll1· Vt'lope. ldlf'Wild Press. 1807 E. 01 ympic Boulevard. Los Angeles, c ,,, iforn i,, 90021. 
f'<~tl7erblit7 aficionados wanted. Ctll 1433. 
R idP tweded to Philadelphia or virinily ilnytime soon. Call 4124. 
W-1!11Pd 7 non bleacher tix. 
Wdliilms Milncini 
Nt•l'd ride to Dilyton tor 1,2, or 3 pt·opiP. Fri. Milrch 4. Call 8840, H857. 
rit·Spilrately need ride to Des M·'itws ll1is weekend. Call SUE 'o-122. 
NOTICES 

P<~rts ,1ncl Accessories for lm port<'d C.1rs. Foreign Car Parts cn 215 Dixieway North ( h'OS('filnd) 272-7187. 
F'n•ssure with dislomilcy 
lukrn Spak for SBP SBVP 
SMC GIRLS: NOTE, 231 Breen Phillips is now truly "THE 111\CHELORS THREE." Now rpopened tor Business, 24 hour '<'rvice available ilS of 2-18-72. (dll 1287. 
SAVE YOUR HANDS FOR !lETTER THINGS -TYPING [)ONE FAST AND l~f ASONABLE. CALL MIKE 6963. 
f1tSCOUNT TRAVEL. To and Within Europe. Leave anytime from NY Chicilgo. Flight Center 127 North Randall. Madison, WI. 'o3705. (608) 263 3131. 
t imt· for il fresh approach 

I uken Spak for SBP SBVP 
S40 mo. rooms. Girls only. 233· 1949. 
Nt'W 7th 9th grade classical· Christian school needs English, 1iltin, Mtltil and Science teachers. Since salaries will be small the 1irs! year, we're looking for qr,ldunle st~dents (preferably with Mnstersl to work part-ti,me while ,11 Notre Dnme. Send vita, r<'ferences, etc. to Magdalen School. P.0. Box 1225. South Bend. 
-16624. 
WILD FLICK. Don't miss <ampus thriller of year WAIT UNTIL DARK. Sponsored by Youngstown Club. Sat. Mar. 4th r nqineering 7 9 . 11. 
CIVIL ENGINEERS Join AC· TION. the Peace Corps-Vista IC'ilm. and use your talents to ehlp ollu'rS help themselves. See ACT ION recruiters at the Library r 1"1>. 28 Milrch 3. Or phone 283· 6255. 
ARCHITECTS, PLANNERS· Get yC'ar's of Pxperience in a short tinw with ACT ION (peace Corps· Vista). Put your skill to use ilPipin~t others. See ACT ION r<'cruiters in the Library this Wl'<'k. Or phone 283-6255. 
MI'A'S, LAW MAJORS ACTION, IIH• Peace corps Vista agency tH'C'ds your skill to help others dPvelope theirs. See ACT ION rf'cruitcrs at the library Feb. 28· Marcil 3. Or phone 283-6255. 
FOR SALE 

MoviP canwra bargain: Wards 706,1, supc>r 8, 5: 1 power zoom, 18 & 24 Ips, .lulomiltic exposure TTL. rt•IIC'x vif'wing focusing, only $65. 
C.lll 283 8180. 
"63 lmpilla qood condition. $200. C.>ll 233 7323, .11ter 5:00pm. 
I nr S,liP: GIBSON ELECTRIC: 100 WATT KUSTON AMP. NEW CON 232 6338. 
(,Rf"AT CAMERA BUY -Canon c;,,nonC't QL25: 3.Smm. r.lnqPfinder focus, f2.5 lens, auto 01" 111.1nual operation, Canon "quick load" mechanism, like tH•w just filctory reconditioned, with case, only $55. Will explain! C.1ll 283 8180 NOW. 
(,off Cart for ~ale or rent. Call .lim 8906. 
LOST AND FOUND 

rt'Wilref. For return or in­forllltllion of brown leather tr<'nchcoilt taken from Regina fl,lll Silt. 2 19 Call THOM 1150. 
l o't AI ue i1nd qolef knit scarf. ( ,111 TOM 1437. Reward. 
l OST(Stolenl f1•·own w,llfC't containing money & 
I.D if found please contact JIM WILLARD 8056. 
PERSONALS 

PrC'ppie forward (flOckey), with MG sC'eks short term romance wtth intellignet female. Special <onsideri1tion qiven catty Italians wit11 IPrminill illnesses. Call 8741. .1 5 pm 
1\tll. 
HA HA HA-HA HA HA 
104 
lonPiy qood looking SMC girl lookinq for adventurous ND man to recuperate from bad ex­pPrience. C.1ll PEGGY 5435. 
H.1ppy Birthday Buckeye! love, ftnpire 
Dt•nr Otter. AP qood! If you can't be good, be <ilrPful! If you can't be carefuL namP one niter Greg, Bob, Griz, Kt·vin, Mark, Beaker, Dwight. Joe and Fred! 
Happy Birthday! 

D<·ar K, K, K, K, Keep the latch slign tied ilnd the dogs tied up! H,lppy Birthday, you zub! (siqnedl Nnb the 'Rab alias "The Cilm!'l Jockey"! 
Cathy, H.1ppy Birthday! love. John, Chuckles, Dave, Jim, 11obby, Pilky, Jim, Barb, Mary, StPvie, Bf'rnie. 
(l,,,uffeur Lildy, On rf'consideration: Silva Thins ,,r<' qrcat. 
Beggar. 

Norm. I love you. I've got this place if vou'v!' got the time. Don't blow this invitation. 
Guess Who. 

To ,111 my Pilrtners on Zahm 's 2nd floor : Y a 'I L thanks for the best hirthday a CJOill roper ever had. 1!'XilS. 
FOR RENT 

2 lhre<' bedroom furnished houses .wilifable June or Sept. 234-5830. 
Words 1da 2da 3da 4da Sda 
1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20.1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31·35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41·45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 








