
Clearing and colder; high in low 40's low all day, if you had a wild weekend. 


Vol. VI, No. 82 of notre dame -st. mary's Monday, February 21, 1972 
Three declare SBP candidacy 
SchlOsser cmnounces; 
intends to 11se 'fonnal 
structures' for policies 
by T.C. Treanor Obst>rver Assistant Editor 
Charging that "student government is in a sad state of inac­tivity," and that "the social and cultural life at Notre Dame is in hi berna t ion, " 0 ff­campus Junior Joe Schlosser yesterday announced his can­didacy for Notre Dame's Student Body Presidency. 
Schlosser, who last year lost a bid to 

Schlosser: "Student
become the SLC's off­

government must 
campus representative, 

stimulate the students
will run with Lincoln 

to question ad­
Solda ti, who coordinates 

ministrative policies."
the off-campus Indiana Public Research Group. 

-Schlosser, an American Studies Major from Plainfield, New Jersey, said he will use "the formal student government structures for gauging student opinion." and "the formal university governance structure for pressing student demands." 
He contended that "In its leadership capacity, student government must stil}lulate the students to question administrative policies, plans, and action. Student government officers often have the information students need." 
"No behind -the -scenes deals," Schlosser promised. 
Schlosser complained about the performance of current SBP John Barkett in this year's parietal hours SLC meeting held in the Engineering building. 
"There were six hundred people there and the thing just kind of fell apart. A trickle resulted from a powerful surge of student support," he said. 
"Student Government's responsibility is to press student needs as first priority," Schlosser contended. "The officers of student government must maintain an accurate sense of student desires and opinions -they must implement student opinion even when it conflicts with personal opinion." 
"We don't feel that Student Government should run on what we want -but what the students want," Schlosser said. 

Schlosser proposed no immediate changes in student government structures. 
"The Hall President's Council has the potential to deliver student opinion accurately," he speculated. "But it tries to come to a con­senseus for all twenty halls but a consenseus often ignores the minority halls." 
"We have entered the race for SBP and SBVP to put life into the formal structure," he said. 
"We want to be elected on our philosophy," Soldati echoed "We think our philosophy will become evident in the course of the campaign." 
Schlosser pledged himself to "a new attitude in student government based on self-determination of students directing their own lives." 
"We intend to transform the past rhetoric of student power into action," he said. 
Schlosser and Soldati also promised to "revitalize the cultural atmosphere." "We can privide time, space, information and funds to individual artists," Schlosser said, "The energies of these students can be actualized: coffeehouses, poetry readings, music sessions, craft workshops." 
Schlosser also pledged several unspecified campaign "innovations." 

Rogers joins race; wants to adopt stay hall system at SMC 
by T.C. Treanor Observer Assistant Editor 
Sophomore Class President Maureen Rogers yesterday evening became the second officially -an­nounced candidate in the St. Mary's Student Body Presidential Race. 
Miss Rogers, who will run with Sophomore Mary Mack, would try to "establish the stay­hall system at St. Mary's" and "cen­tralize the college's 

Rogers: "Strengthening
services" if elected. 

hall community will 
In a speech in Regina 

provide a new impetus
Hall's South Lounge, 

for legislation."
she contended that the stay-hall system would "build up hall counsels 

and make people build up the ·halls." "One of the main reasons this hall (Regina) is in trouble is that everybody here can't wait until she gets out," Rogers contended. 
She said that "Our emphasis will be in two areas: hall life and services." According to Miss Rogers, "Strengthening hall community will provide a new impetus for legislation, both on the hall level and campus-wide." 
She also favored making the Judicial Board a hall-level operation. According to the Junior Class President, the Judicial Board is "not applicable to the students now. Students will think of the J-Board, and they'll think of punish­ment." 
Miss Rogers would "reduce punishments and substitute instead constructive work for the hall." 
She contended that "situations weren't the same across campus. Parietals-and rules­shouldn't necessarily be the same in Regina and Augusta halls." 
According to Regers, "halls, not student government, ought to press for parietals." 
Miss Rogers echoed Notre Dame Student Body Presidential candidate Chuck Luken's con­tention that the President must apply "diplomacy and pressure" to administration and Trustees in order to get things done. 
She said that "student governmental philosophies (at Notre Dame and St. Mary's) seemed to be two extremes of a spectrum, but they were really a lot closer than they looked. Both philosophies were good ones, but not complete." 
But she did say that many of the objectives of 
St. Mary's Barlow "had not been attained." She said that she favored "many of the same ser­vice," including: --a birth-control information center --more money for minority scholarships and financial aid. --a day-student commissioner. Miss Rogers contended that the one hundred four off-campus day students had been treated "like high school students" by St. Mary's. --drug information center. --a cooperative grocery. She suggested renting space from the school and setting up a co-op run by students, with student employees, so "that students can buy their groceries there instead of going to the snack bar and paying crazy prices." --Health and Psychological services. According to Miss Rogers, "two people have had nervous breakdowns this year that might have been prevented if we had proper psychological ser­vices." 


Caruso in running; pledges 'to go as far as the students want' 
by T.C. Treanor Observer Assistant Editor 
Gary J. Caruso, a member of the St. Mary's student assembly, Junior Class Executive Coordinator, and former Co­exchange Dining Director, last night announced his can­didacy for Notre Dame's student body presidential post. 
In an address given before approximately fifty people in Lyon's hall chapel, Caruso pledged to go "as far as the students want" in 
and say 'act.' " 
pressing the ad­ministration for change. "We show the initiative and place the burden on 
the shoulders and say 'act,' " Caruso suggested. Caruso also accepted Pangborn Senator Chuck Luken's invitation to debate. 
Caruso, who comes from Canonsburg, Penn­sylvania, will run with Flanner Senator Bob Long, a Sophomore from Monroeville, Pa. 
Caruso said he would take "drastic action, if necessary" in behalf of co-ed dorms or "whatever else the student body really wants." 
"If the student body wants, really wants co-ed dorms, I'll go as far as renting U-hauls and moving some men into different dorms. So then the administration says, 'No, you can't move.' I say fine, get the national guard or maintenance to move us out, and while you do that, we'll stand on the side without any disturbance, but we'll also have NBC and CBS there showing the country what ND is really like." 
Caruso accused current SBP John Barkett of "Backing down" on the parietals issue, con­tending that "we blew our chance to change parietals this year because the SBP backed own." 
Caruso also predicted that the parietals issue would crop up again next year. "Next year when we have men and women dorms those same rules will be on the books," Caruso said, "but this time they will be enforced. So I foesee another parietals confrontation." 
The former Co-ex commissioner said that "many smaller but aggravating problems can be changed by simply nagging those in charge...'But no one ever tries. They sit up there and say 'We're changing this structure, or we went to that meeting.' A hell of a lot of good that does for our snowbound cars, or missed classes." 
He argued that if student government "just gets some of these smaller things done, along with introducing more student union ac­tivities...when an issue like parietals comes along, then the students will rally for a cause, and all the SBP has to do is lead them, not refuse them like this year." 
Caruso's running-mate, Long, suggested four changes in Student Union. They are: --a Winter carnival "patterned along the lines of An Tostal weekend" --a renegotiation of the current ACC contract --"higher quality groups of greater appeal" for concerts --remodeling of LaFortune Student Center facilities. 
Caruso said that the facilities could be remodeled if student government "offers a sum of money from the student ogovernrnent budget asks the administration to match it. 



Page 2 THE OBSERVER Monday, February 21, 1972 
Fonya Davis seeks local support for sister 

If the case is won, it will be a
is no longer accused of a capital
a struggle to free the people from sister, a Communist party people's victory, she said. "We
crime. According to her sister,
by Susan Prendergast 
"racist oppressors--Nixon, member and former instructor at are the ultimate target of all per: 
"There is no longer any legal
Agnew, Romney, Reagan." UCLA. Angela has been in jail -secution ... We must work to free­
basis for holding her."
These men are the true con­since October, 1970, on charges of Angel and all political prisoners." 
Ms. Davis regarded the case a­
"The persecution of Angela 
spirators in this case, not Angela, murder, kidnapping, and con­1 During the short discussion
gainst her sister as very flimsy­
Davis is a signpost that we are 
contended Ms. Davis. "I accuse spiracy, but Fonya Davis con­which followed, Ms Davis replied 
there is no accusation of any dir­
going down the road to racism," Reagan, Nixon, and the courts of tended that there is a "Great to a question about politicalass­
ect involvement in violence or p­
asserted Sister Fonya Davis ln a­
conspiracy to take my sister's possibility that Angela will be assinations. "I know who does
roof of intent. "I think she's going 
call for popular support of the -life." By calling Angela a able to get out of jail soon." believe in political assassination­
to be acquited, not because I have
Free Angel Davis camapign. 
terrorist on nationwide TV, Nixon As justification for holding -those in power. We (the Americ­
any faith in the judicial system, 
Ms. Davis spoke Saturday night 
"irreversibly damaged the Angela without bail, California an people) are not in armed st­
in the Memoftal Library but because I have faith in the
possibility of her getting a fair -officials have cited a law ruggle."
people.
auditorium at a rally sponsored trial." providing that defendants in ca­by the student union of the Notre According to Ms. Davis, "They pital cases are not legally eligible Dame Black Studies program. A <the government) are afraid of for bail where proof of guilt iscrowd of over 200 gathered to what she represents ... the vast evident or the presumptionhear Ms. Davis and Matt upsurge of people in this country great."
Eubanks, coordinator of the St. 
who are struggling against the 
Louis regional committee to free State's case "very flimsy" 
myriads of injustices which face
Angela Davis. 
us " 
Both Eubanks and Ms. Davis Ms. Davis brought "warmest Since California recently abol­called the struggle to free Angela revolutionary greetins" from her ished capital punishment, Angela 
Endorsed by 75% of ND students 

InPIRG petition successful 
MOCK CONVENTION DELEGATE SIGN-UPS 
Today thru Friday 
in the Huddle, 10:30 am-2:30 pm in the Dining· Halls: 5:00-6:30 pm 

Delegate Fee -$1 .00 
by Ed Ellis 
Over seventy-five percent of Notre Dame students have signed the petition to put the $3.00 IN­PIRG fee on the student bill for the fall semester, according to INPIRG spokesmen Bill Rahner and Gerry Nagle. 
Forty-two percent of Saint Mary's students signed the same petition yesterday afternoon when twenty five Notre Dame and SMC students petitioned the SMC halls during Open House. 
The campus-wide total at Notre Dame was 75.1 percent. Badin 
Delegate sign-ups for the ND mock convention will be held Monday through Friday, February 21-25 in the Dining Halls and the Huddle. Sign-ups are open to all students from 5:00 to 6:30. A Delegate fee of $1.00 is asked of all participants. Organizers urge students to sign­up early, thus getting their choice of state deleg_ations. 

Hall was the highest individual 
hall  with  95  percent  signed.  
Howard,  Morrissey,  and  
Pangborn  were  next  with  93  

percent, 92 percent, and 87 percent respectively. Off­Campus was low with about 52 percent, but INPIRG spokesmen expresses satisfaction with that percentage, since o-c is "always a hard place to work on." 
The next step in the INPIRG process is to get the $3 added to the student bill through the Office of Student Accounts. According to Rahner, the students are in a good bargaining position. 
As to whether they will suc­ceed, Rahner said, "We really don't know yet, because the University really didn't give us a firm figure to shoot for." 
Nagle said that the officers of the University, the Vice­Presidents Council, will have the final word on the INPIRG request. He said that the INPIRG staff itself was satisfied with their work, and noted that over 80 percent of on-campus students signed the petition. Saint Mary's petitioning will 

AND LIVE ENTERT~INMENT 
Every Friday night 

LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
Every Saturday night 
POLKA BAND·DANCING 
Open Weekdays ll a.m. ­



LAUREL &HARDY 
PIZZA PALACE 
4610 Western Ate. Beliedle Shoppin1 c"enter 
Phone 289-7983 
The Observer 'is published daily during the college semester eccept vac~ions by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre. Dame, Ind. 46556. 
continue for the rest of this week. The percentage needed there is expected by INPIRG representatives to be somewhat lower than that at Notre Dame. 
-Compliments of afriend 
Sign up early for your choice ol state delegations 

THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY. DETROIT. MICHIGAN 48226 


Monday, February 21, 1972 THE OBSERVER 




Nixon arriv~s in Peking 
world briefs 
<Cl 1!172 New York Times News Service 
(cl 1!172 New York Times 
Pt>king, Ft>b 21-President Nixon and the Panoply of the American Presidency arrived in China this morning to mark the end of a generation of hostility and to begin a new, but still un­defined relationship between the most powerful and the most populous of nations. 
Mr. and Mrs. Nixon, leading an official pa•ty of 15 but a total contingent of more than 300 Americans, flew in from the Pacific across the muddy mouth of the Yangtze River and touched down at Shanghai's Hung Chiao airport at 9 A.M. (8 p.m. Sunday 
E.S..T.) 
After taking tea at the teminal there, they were to fly on with a Chinese navigator across the wintry north plain toward a scheduled landing in Peking at 
11 :30 a.m. and a cordial official welcome. 
The welcome promised to be relatively restrained. Foreign diplomats stationed in Peking were advised not to come to the airport and it was doubtful that the ceremony would be the kind of full-throated reception given to China's warmest friends. 
Premier Chou En-Lai will lead the reception committee at the Capital Airport. And it is his handshake that will symbolize the end of American ostracism of his Communist Government. Nixon will be grasping the hand that John Foster Dulles spurned at Geneva in 1954, when the 

fetus Is 5 months 
Once a little girl who was aborted survived to be adopted. Those who assert that abortion merely removes 'tissue' from the mother's body should ask themselves whether tissue has ever been adopted. 
KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS 
Cairo--Egyptian security officials reported that a French student andtwo Belgians had confessed to having attempted to mail Israeli­prepared leaflets to Egyptians to foment rebellion against the Egyptian government. 
.. 1\tanagua, Nicaragua--President Anastasio Somoza of Nicaragua said that he and Howard R. Hughes were discussing a merger of Hughes' Air West and Lanica, a small airline owned by the Somoza f­amily, with flights between Managua and Florida. 
Nt>w York-David Dubinsky, the honorary President of the Interna­tional ladies garment workers union, reported that he had traded punc~es Saturday night with a mugger. Despite his fight, Dubinsky, who ts 80 years old, was robbed of $90 . "I couldn't forgive myself for not putting up a better fight," he said later. 
were still raw and the contest over Vietnam had just been joined. 
There was to be an honor guard and the playing of anthems at the airport. But there are to be no welcoming speeches for the airport assemblage of the worldwide television audience that could watch the arrival here over an especially imported satellite communications system. 
Nixon and Chou are to meet again this afternoon for at least two hours of formal discussion, and they will probably trade toasts at an official banquet this evening.But for the moment they intend to say next to nothing in public about their conversation until they issue a communique near the end of the eight-day visit. 
The schedule for the rest of the week in Peking and for brief visists to Hangchow and Shanghai next weekend has not been announce. But if appears that the American and Chinese leaders will meet almost every day, including one or two calls by Nixon or Chairman Mao Tse­Tung, the founder and leader of China's Communist state. 
Peking has been spruced up for the Presidential party. But all of the repainting and restocking of supplies has been accomplished in the name of the just-concluded Spring Festival, marking the Lunar New Year. 
Most--but not all--of the slogans denouncing American Im­less directly challenging billboard chants. There is no way of knowing, however, whether China's energetic new campaign for good relations with non­Communist nations would not have inspired a similar toning down in any case. 
There is said to be a general air of relaxation among the Chinese people now that the turmoil of the Cultural Revolution seems pent. The glorification of Chairman Mao has also been de­emphasized. And while purges have left.many senior positions 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Sign up the week of February 21 for interviews scheduled the week of February 28, 29, March 1, 2 and 3 
Interviews are open to NO and SMC seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 207, Main Building. Select your own time and sign your name. Room 207 will be open at 8:00am until 5:00pm each day, except Friday. 
Consult the Placement Manual for additional information regarding interviews and procedures. 
Make sure a completed College Interview Form is left in designated boxes in Room 207 no later than Friday of the week prior to your interviews. 
INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF FEBRU.ARY 28, 29, MARCH 1, 2and 3 
F <'b. 28 FIRST WISCONSIN NATIONAL BANK OF MILWAUKEE. ABand BBA. HARRIS TRUST & SAVINGS BANK. All BBA. LINCOLN NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. (Rescheduled from February 16) BA, BBA, 
MBA. BS, MS in Math. STATE LIFE INSURANCE. AB, BBA and MBA. F!'b. 29 
CHASE MANHATTAN BANK. AB and BBA. 
CORNELL AERONAUTICAL LABORATORY. All degree levels in Comp. Sci. and Applied Physics. MS, Ph.D. in Math. All degree levels in A.E., E.E., E:ngr. Sci. and M.E. 
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS CO. BBA in Acct., Fin and Mgt. MBA with Marketing background. BS in M.E. and M.E.I.O. DRACKETT co. No specific degree or majors for Sales Rep. MERCHANTS NATIONAL BANK & TRUST CO. BA in Econ. and Math. All BBA. PITTSBURGH NATIONAL BANK. BA, MA, BBA and MBA. SARGENT AND LUNDY. BS,MS inM.E.,E.E.,C.E.andSoil Engr. WHIRLPOOL CORPORATION. BBA and MBA. BS, MS in Engineering. MM. 1 ASSOCIATES CORPORATION OF NORTH AMERICA. BBAand MBA. BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA. BA. BBAand MBA. COMMONWEALTH EDISON CO. BS in C.E., ME.E, M.E.N.O. BS, MS in E.E. BBA in Acct. 
SEARS, ROEBUCK AND CO. BA and BBA. UARCO INC. BA or BBA. 
I .W. WOOLWORTH CO. All BBA. Mar. 2 
CHRYSLER CORP. MBA with Fin. and Acct. backgrounds for Corporate Finance. BS in 
M.E. and E.E. MS in Met. DE PAUL UNIVERSITY· GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS. All degrees. INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE. All BBA. KERBER. ECK & BRAECKEL. BBA in Acct. MOTOROLA, INC. BS, MS in E.E. REliANCE ELECTRIC CO. BS in E.E.Qr M.E. MBA with Technical undergraduate degree. 
Milr. 3 ACTION PEACE CORPS VISTA. BA, BBA, MA, MBA, LAW. BS, MS in E.E., M.E., C.E. and Science. B. of Arch. GOODYEAR Tl RE & RUBBER CO. BS in Ch.E., M.E., and Chern. BBA in Acct. JEWEL CO .• INC. BBA and MBA. MELLON NATIONAL BANK & TRUST. BBAand MBA (Management background). 
unfilled, the government seems to be addressing itself once again to the orderly conduct of business at home and abroad. 
. B~t th~re could be no question m Nixon s mind that he had come to a distant nation, far removed not only physically but also philisophically. 
Only Tian An Men square--the heart of the city and the country­conveyed some of the spectacular grandeur of China, old and new, on this first passage by any of­ficial American party in 22 years. 
on campus 
movie, catch 22, cac, engi­neering aud. 8 and 10 pm. 
lecture, crisis in the cities, chuck lennin, and prof.. patrick horsbrugh, lib. aud. 8:00pm. 
sign-up, mock democratic convention, huddle 10:. 30-2:30 nd & smc dinning halls, 5:00-6:30, cost $1.­
00. 

today 

Page 4 THE OBSERVER Monday, February 21, 1972 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
F.ditor-in-Chief, Glen S. Corso 
Assistant Editor Assistant F.ditor All successful newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
ceaselessly querulous and 
bellicose. They never defend Business Manager anyone or anything if they can help Advertising Manager Jim· Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle 
they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 
Bu~iness: 283-7471 News: 283-1715 

Sign It 
The Vice-Presidents Council will soon be called upon to decide whether or not to allow the three dollar InPIRG fee on the tuition bill. Over seventy five percent of the Notre Dame student body has signed a petition indicating support for placing the charge on the statement. 
Putting extra fees on the student's financial statements is not a privilege granted lightly. Rather each request is carefully weighed by the Vice-President's council and permission almost never is granted. In fact there are only two organizations that have such a fee on the bill now--the Observer and Notre Dame Student Government. 
That a position on the bill is granted only to special groups, groups that serve virtually every student, is a good thing. The bill is not a means to finance each and every campus group, or even part of them. It is meant as a revenue collecting device for the university and for those unique organizations that usually touch each and every student during the year. 
InPIRG is such an organization. With the money that the students voluntarily give to it, it will be able to fund research teams that will represent the consumer's interests in the state. These teams will be able to counteract the vicious influence that industry's lobbies exert on legislators and government officials. 
Much talk about change goes on at Notre Dame. Much talk about community and lots of talk about life in general. Most students hate pollution, despise legislators who are owned by-the corporate plutocrats, are scornful of the tax structure which allows mammoth companies to get away with paying few taxes and lacksidasical enforcement of anti-trust laws and industry controlled regulatory agencies. 
No Vice-Presiden of Notre Dame is in favor of any of the above ills. No Vice-President would ever say that none of the above are not grave and serious problems. We think that no Vice-President can vote against having InPIRG on the bill. This organization is one of the best hopes we have for turning this country around. Each and every one of the Vice Presidents should realize this when he votes, and vote affirmatively. 
Telegram 
The Governor of Indiana, the Honorable Edgar Whitcomb has vetoed the bill which would have given eighteen year olds the right to drink. 
The Governor feels that the number of deaths that occur from drunk driving would shoot up if eighteen year olds were allowed to imbibe. In response to his forceful gesture, the Editor-in -Chief of the Observer has sent the following telegram: Excellency: Congratulations on vetoing the bill allowing eighteen year olds the right to drink. How such a despicable measure ever gotpast the great legislators of this state is beyond me. But now, with one stroke of your pen, you have done more than a minister of the Lord himself was able to do-you removed this evillegisla tion from the books. By standing up to the combined interests of the dealers of demon rum and those miserable college students you have exhibited rare moral courage, for a politican, and are worthy of great praise. Your action is especially commendable in light of the fact that these youngsters have been given the right to vote and could very well wreak vengence upon your [)art at the next election. Our modern, safe, highway system is witness to far too many deaths caused by drunken driving already. If eighteen year olds were allowed to indulge an awful carnage would result -a carnage almost as terrible as the conflict in Vietnam. My hope is that the legislature will support your action and sustain your veto, despite the fact that they, unlike yourself will stand for re-election and be forced to face their younger constitutents. Again best wishes and sincere congratulations. You have made the state of Indiana proud of you, in spite of what some may say! 
Yours truly, 
Glen S. Corso 

Don Ruane mlmllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllmum11111111111mum111m 
Election Nud 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
For What It's Worth 
The SBP election is finally beginning to look like an exciting cam­paign now that Gary Caruso has joined the race. 
Caruso has been the center of various controversies ever since he was connected with the botched Freshman class elections and led the fight for sophomore cars on campus while Sophomore Class Executive Director. 
Since then he has faded from his behind the scenes seat as con­troller of his class government to unsuccessfully seek an SLC seat, charge the Observer with favoritism in the campaign, co-author a parietal proposal for SMC dorms and lead the co-ex dinner program until he was fired last week and charged his former boss, Research and Development Commissioner Ed Ellis, with playing little bureaucratic games. 
Caruso does not have an impressive record, and has made a few political enemies. There is bound to be a bit of mudslinging this campaign and it will probably start in Caruso's camp with criticism of Hall Life Commissioner Bob Higgins, a candidate and close friend of Ed Ellis. 
Without Caruso the campaign would be very dull. None of the other four candidates are really outstanding as student politicians go. 
Higgins gathered most of his experience this year in John Barkett's cabinet. Most of his time has been spent compiling a hall life report, which is yet to appear, and helping INPIRG establish itself on campus. If Higgins had designs on this year's election, his foresight in chosing the hall life commission is commendable and hopefully will remain with him if he is elected, but his lack of experience will be a big hindrance. 
Floyd Kezele, by far, has the most experience in the art of campus government, and the art of dealing with the duLac administrators. All of it has come from his membership on the SLC, where he is vice chairman. A member since November 1970, he created the present committe system to save time and improve efficiency, and has been a leader in several student causes such as the sanctions issue and having SMC representatives on the SLC. Kezele, however, has not had much contact with student government outside of the SLC. 
Ombudsman Paul . Dziedzic might be considered a major can­didate by some. Unfortunately he has not distinguished himself as a student leader. He has tried though, with a shortlived attempt to define the Imminent Danger Clause, by joining the SMC Student Assembly, and getting appointed to the Hall Life Committee. He also drew some attention with a national voters' peace pledge letter drive. 
An even more undistinguished candidate is Chuck Luken, a senator from Pangborn. Luken spent his sophomore year in Tokyo, and is a hall petitioner for INPIRG. As in every election there is a joker, and this year he comes from the South Quad. Identified only as "Greeker", he promises to annex South Bend and merge with USC. Greeker claims the merger with Southern Cal would solve at least two ND problems: girls and our poor poor football record with the Trojans. Transportation between campuses will be a problem, but the Greeker has a solution, build a barr street between the two, 
Production Staff Nite Editors (and Editress): Jim Roe, Joe Abell, Maria Gallagher (The Eternal Triumvirate) 
Layout: Carol Weiss, Mary Collins 
Headlines: Don Biancamano Day Editor: Tom Bornholdt News Editor: Jerry Lutkus Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Typist: Debbie Gras, Mark Niederkorn, Ginna Smith Nite Controller: Helen Smudski 
i. nothing funny tonite; we're too tired 
Monday, February 21, 1972 THE, OBSERVER. 
Page 5 





Letters • • • 
• • • on 1-Bne, gay letters, blood, beastiality and dorms 

Collis For a Different Reason 
question. But if we distinguish between agape and eros, (in
I<:ditor: 
terms of Christianity) and bet­Re: "f-line: dining hall mad­ween members of the same sex,ness" by Joseph Abell. I would the latter has no place what­like to take this opportunity to soever.
correct a slight mistake made by Mr. Abell. "Collis" Kilfoyle To love a member of the same 
sex physically -to even desire · never lived in his famed such love is in direct opposition tonamesake's room. Being a any type of Christian thought, is~anford Hall historian, I can it not? If you think not, I wouldassure you that Collis lived in the 
following rooms during his three refer you to 1 Corinthians 6: 9-12, and since you have by this time
years at Stanford: 223, 223, and no doubt pegged me as the holy­216. Bob Olivieri and Jack Hyzak roller type, a Biblical reference
were the two frosh who inherited Collis Jones' (and another eager should come as no surprise. If 
anyone could do so, I would veryyou may have heard of. Austin mush like to hear an adequate
rarrl room, which was 213. The whole point is that John Kilfoyle's definition of a homosexual within 
the terms of Christianity, or evennickname "Collis" stems from your Christianity. Is not the very his own prowess on the hard­
expression "Christian
wood. So please, Mr. Abell, give homosexual" a contradiction inCollis the true recognition he so terms'? I would suggest to youdesparately desires. As his close who are reading this that evenfriend, I think it to be the least should society liberate andyou can do. 
condone the attitudes of thePete "Rose" Gallagher homosexual through the efforts ofPeter Gallagher 
gay Lib or whatever, you must Gay Letters realize that you cannot maintain those attitudes of a homosexual,
Editor: and at the same time retain theFor the past week and a half I invaluable label of a Chrisian ­have seen in the letters-to-the choose whichever is more im­!.'ditor section a number of portant to you -but not both.
serious letters concerning some unhappy people today in the 
One who -very
Notre Dame Campus. cares but in a 
different way.
Your responsibility as an editor is to select a few letters that reflect the message or opinion of the students. It seems that you Thanks for Blood are giving too much publicity and importance to the gay lib Editor: "problem" here on campus. This Afew weeks ago you printed an 
is not to say that I am con­article concerning an appeal for demning you for publishing a blood donorsor a kidney machine 
couple of letters on the subject, patient Carnie! Geurs. Your but I feel that printing more of newspaper certainly obtained these each day is presuming the results! We were told the point more than it really response was so great that on deserves. Thursday of that week the Blood I am sure we all know that Bank couldn't handle them all on 
these are some of them around, that day. This tremendous but couldn't the OBSERVER response resulted in a reserve of 
use its space more intelligently? 40 units ofblood and they figured Luis J. Cabral on more, which will take careof 421 Fisher our need for several months. Since we can't thank each one
The letters on homosexuality 
of you personally, as well as
that have been run have only 
thanking any future donors, we
been a small sampling of those 
are writing this letter to express
we have received--ed. 
our sincere appreciation and deepest gratitude. 
Gay and God 
We thank each and everyone ofEditor: you for your wonderful responseFinally in the variouslettersyou to our appeal for help and trusthave printed concerning that God will bless you all.
homosexuality and the social and Thankfully,
personal implications of such on campus, finally, one of them had 
Mr. and Mrs. C. Geursat least a mention of GOD. I refer 1506 E. Altgeldto the letter of the fourteenth South Bend, Ind.
from "one who also cares'', where he hoped that "God would not require me to live too much 
Luken Debate Challenge
loneliness. We are all familiar with the social"mores" of today, and· those of us who have loved a Editor: member of the same sex are even I feel it is unfortunate that none more aware of the implications of the other candidates for and restraints such standards Student Body President have have on the homosexual -for accepted my challenge to debate better or for worse. But the point the issues confronting Notre of this letter does not center Dame students today. around society in general, but In my mind, it is time for a full rather about our society -here at and open appraisal of what Notre Dame. student government has done this 
If I may, let me further define past year for Notre Dame our"society"as at least ideally a students. Christian one, which I think for More importantly, it is vital the most part is an agreeable that students learn exactly what premise. My question then, is next year's leaders intend to basically this: given a Christian ·work for, and how hard they community, which in some way intend to work. or another should instill a bit of Debates such as I have Christian conscience, where does suggested would provide a much­the homosexual fit? What is his needed opportunity to display the role in that community? Most of programs and personal qualities the letters written before seem to of the candidates. agree at least on this -that it is a To spurn such an opportunity-­good thing to live, i.e. to give as my opponents have spurned it, oneself to another in total. That for whatever reasons--is, to me, is indeed Christian love -without to deny students the means to 
make a critical decision. My challenge still stands. Sincerely, 

Charles J. Luken, Student Body Presidential Candidate 
Co-ex Clarification 
Editor: 

Just two points of clarification concerning your article about the Co-ex dining ticket fiasco: 1) I said that Mr. Ellis was playing games and NOT the Hall President's Council, 2) Ed Ellis FIRED me from my job as Co-Ex rlirector---I did not give in to him or anyone else --I still believe that tickets at the Student Union is the only fair and best way to handle the program (fifty tickets at the Union and fifty tickets to each hall per day might be the best way>. 
Gary J. Caruso 
And Another Minority 

Editor: 
In recent weeks various men have expressed their feelings concerning their sexual preferences, I too feel that I must bare my bosom in this regard. 
1Homosexuals and bisexuals are, no doubt, repressed sects, but by far the most downtrodden of all sexual minorities are those practitioners of beastiality. 
Oh why, oh why must we be discriminated against'? Gays can room together, straights have parietals, I should be allowed the comfort of my dog. 
How can I describe the feeling that swells inside of me as I wander through a flock of sheep or prance through a gaggle of geese'? Variety is the spice of life, and who among you can quarrel with getting back to nature? 
An animal lover 
Dorm Complaints 
Editor: 
The article in the Observer by Marlene Zloza compelled me to write this letter. It appears to me that very few students are satisfied with the proposed girl's dormitories for next year. Miss 
Zloza expressed disappointment with the idea of living in either Walsh or Badin Halls next year. There are at least 180 Walsh residents who are even more distressed with their eviction notice. 
Recently two SMC Co-eds objected strenuously to the decision, "they gave us the two worst dorms on campus!" Most Walsh residents will tell you that Walxh is the finest hall on campus and very few want to leave. In fact, most of the students presently living in Walsh specifically requested residence there. It would seem that some better accomodations could be arranged. Why move guys out that want to stay and move girls in that feel cheated? 
Last year Walsh remodeled it's basement, many Walsh men sacrificed at least on week of their summer vacation to return early to help with the work. In September money was collected from each resident to buy a new T.V., etc. It seems regretable to evict these same guys six months later. I believe that the 

University could reach a more satisfactory solution. Sincerely, 
Brent Shreiner 
:m Walsh Hall 
Geoffrey Come Home 

Editor: 
I do admire your newspaper for 
its gadfly courage and integrity 
in printing stories fearlessly. I do 
wish some other, so called more 
liberal institutions had student 
newspapers as enlightened as 
yours. 
I have come across the story by 
Gahlib Ahmes <Ghalib Ahmed?) 
in the Observer last Wednesday. 
It is entitled: "Go Home Geof­
frey" My answer is as follows. 
No, No-America, America!! 
I have been a Human Rights 
Officer of the United Nations and 
I left that career appointment in 
order to be the Visiting Professor 
at St. Mary's College in 1967. I 
agree that in Pakistan human 
rights are still being violated. But 
that is no reason for denying 
minorities, be they racial or 
intellectual, their civil rights in 
an advanced country like the 
United States. Why should I be 
blamed for the actions of 
Pakistan authorities. In fact I 
wasthefirst person who publically 
criticised the dictatorship of ex­
President Sir Ayub Khan back in 
1960. In 1965, I authored a new 
theory of justice: Justice is the 
Absence of Dictatorial 
perogative. In 1966 I wrote my 
paper on the denial of human 
rights in my motherland. It is 
now an Honor Paper at Harvard. 
While I was at St. Mary's College, 
I was invited for a guest lecture 
at Syracuse Univer:.tty, .J.be 
lecture critices the orutality of 
Ayub Khan regime so 
vehemently that several s­
ycophants and scholarship 
holders from Pakistan booed me 
magnificently. One day when the 
story of fight for democracy by 
few is written, my contribution 
will not be ignored. In 1970, after 
fighting my battles, I left 
Pakistan because I could no 
longer continue in a dictatorial 
regime. Incidently my income in 
Pakistan was at least 6 times my 
earnings in the US. Mr. Gahlib A­
hmes, in his eagerness to pease 
some, should not be irresponsible 
with facts. 
I have not criticised the ND 
students. I have criticised ND 
administration for its bigoted 
personnel policies. When did they 
first hire a negro teacher'? Why 
have they not employed any
black man in any administrative 
position? For more than 100 
years, they could not find a 
qualified black man; the 
qualifications for an assistant 
dean are B.A. or M.A. The 
University started hiring ­
minorities for teaching posts only 
recently for pure tokenism 
reasons. 
I am not wealthy in America. I 
barely manage to survive -but with my head high. I have fought bigotry without distinction as to race, color or national origin. I consider America to be my home. Isn't it the Nation of Immigrants? I must have done something right that I am the youngest man in America listed in all major Who's Who's. IfI were white or an Uncle Tom, 1 would be the president of some University. In fact I see · nothing wrong with a Muslim being the president of ND and a christian heading Al-Azhar 
University. Merit should count 
more than labels. 

Very little intelligence or decency is needed to see that discrimination prevails at ND and this must be corrected. I see something wrong at ND, and I am trying to change it. Incidentally Mr. Ahmes has some glamorous ideas about asst' deanship, it's a ­lowly-paid job. Incidentally, a Vice-Presidency is open at ND. And speaking about my idealism.. .! did prove my ex­cellence at SMC with my on-job performance. At the end may I ask Ahmes to please wake up and not compromise his conscience for the sake of scholarship potential or an attendantship at the Library. We can build a better America and I am doing my bit, bit by bit and with a little bite. I am doing what I can do for my country, removing last remnants of bigotry here. 
Sincerely yours, 
Professor J Iqbal Geoffrey 
LLM PhD Ambim FRSA. 
Abortion 
Editor: 

The recent barrage of verbal 
abuse leveled at the Knights of 
Columbus for its allgedly "re­
volting" ad in this noble journal 
has prompted me to add 
something to this inexorable heap 
of dung. My opinions are based on 
a selfish belief in the right to life, 
and I care not whether they are 
shared or decried. 

Recent history has shown this ­campu~ to be painfully apathetic regardmg any issue. It, then, is surprising that anything as "tri­vial" as the issue of life should ­raise even an eyebrow among the socially (and morally?) elite of this community. However, all good attitudes must come to an end, and I suppose this issue is just as pertinent as Co-Ex tickets. Therefore, let me interject my two cents into the debate and then dissolve into the oblivion of the printed page. 
Although many people take gr­eat pains to confound this issue with highly patronizing and in­tellectual bullshit, the fact rem­ains that the moral implications are distinct: Abortion is murder. It is an indefensible evil with ugly ramifications on the whole of our society. 
With this in mind, I can only ­add that it takes a minute quant­ity of ·intelligence to compare sacrificed human beings with "squashed frogs." Finally, I offer no apologies for the K. of C. abor­tion in its most antiseptic form. 
Eugene Diamond 
304 Stanford 

111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
All letters to the editor should be typewritten. Priority will be given to any letters under 200 words. Letters should be ad. dressed to The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
'11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111, 
\ 

Page 6 THE OBSERVER Monday, February 21, 1972 

Grapplers notch 11th win 

recording the 48th win of hisby "Lefty" Ruschmann Notre Dame career, breakingNotre Dame's wrestling team Tom Ciacco's old career mark.
returned from an abbreviated Mike Fanning also returned to hisEastern road trip with their 11th winning ways, pinning his 18thvictory of the season, defeating opponent in 21 matches thisSt. Francis College of Loretto, season.
Pa., by a 36-12score. Heavy snow cancelled a quadrangular meet The Irish grabbed a quick 10-0 at Wilkes-Barre, Pa. lead in the opening pair of 
Senior captain Ken Ryan matches as 118-pound Mike highlighted the victory by Martin whipped Mike Segurton of 
Swilllmers drubbed 

by E.J. Kinkopf 
The Purdue tankers slowed down the high flying Notre Dame swim team Saturday afternoon, handing the . Irish an 84-39 drubbing in West LaFayette. 
In the one-sided dual meet, the Irish swimmers were only able to come up with two first place finishes. 
Gene Krathaus and freshman Jim Kane carried the Irish colors in the disappointing performance in the Boilermaker pool. 
Kane captured first place in the 100-yard freestyle, and also managed a second place finish in the 200 yard freestyle. 
Krathaus won a blue ribbon in the 50 yard freestyle, and added a third place finish in the 100 yard freestyle. 
ND fencers split pair 
by Joe Wilkowski The Irish fencing team split a pair of matches with Big Ten rivals on Saturday in East Lansing. They easily polished off Michigan State, 18-9, but fell to a strong Ohio State team, 15-12. 
In the first match of the af­ternoon, the foil team led Notre Dame to the victory over Michigan State. The foilsmen racked up an impressive 8-1 record over the Spartans. The epee and saber teams con­tributed 5-4 victories to the decision over State. In this contest, the victory was insured early, and Irish substitutes in all three weapons ran up the score against the host club. 
Against Ohio State, however, the foil team quickly went from hero to goat as it dropped an 8-1 decision to the Buckeye foilsmen and cost Notre Dame the match. The epee team made a strong showing with their 6-3 record, but unfortunately, due to a staggered start, most of their theatrics came after the match was decided. The saber team again finished 5-4. 
Junior Mike Matranga led the Notre Dame fencers Saturday, compiling a perfect 5-0 record in epee. Senior sabremen Ron Sollitto and Matt Fruzynski again turned in fine performances, Ron going 5-l and Matt 4-2 on the afternoon. Jim Mullenix paced the foil team at 3-2. 
The fencers will meet three more Big Ten foes on the road next weekend, taking on Purdue 
and Illinois and Wisconsin 
On any mechanical work and winterizing. For students and University Pei"sonnel 
Roseland Gulf 402 U.S. 31 North ssJromBurg'er 
Besides Kane's second place finish, Coach Stark's swimmers turned in three other runner-up performances. 
Ed Graham finished second in the 200 yard backstroke, John Sherk finished second in the 500 yard freestyle, and Jim Fischer was runner up in the 200 yard breaststroke. 
Joe O'Connor added two third place finishes to the Irish totals, scoring in the 1000 yard freestyle and the 500 yard freestyle. 
Larry LaFratta, John Sherk, Ed Strack, and John Balthrop also turned in third place per­formances for the Irish. LaFratta ended up with third place in the 1 meter diving, Sherk third in the 50 yard freestyle, Strack third in the 200 yard butterfly and John 
Balthrop third in the 200 backstroke.  yard  
The loss dropped tankers' record to 6-3.  the  Irish  

Coach Stark's charges will be at home next weekend meeting the Huskies of Northern Illinois on and hosting Marshall u. 
WCA, Chapman College, Box CC11, Orange, Cal. 92666 
St. Francis, 14-3, and 126-pound 
Steve Moylan won his match by 
forfeit. 
St. Francis closed the gap to 10­

7 with two decisions. Gary 
Pirozzola defeated Rich Esposto 
of the Irish in the 134-pound event 
by a 14-3 count, and John D' Ascoli 
followed in the 142-pound event 
with a 9-3 verdict over Kurt 
Bramble. 
The Irish pulled away to a 24-9 . advantage with two pins and a 
draw. Ken Ryan took 5:28 to pin 
150-pound Mike Dillon. 158­
pounder Fritz Bruening had a 
little easier time with Jim 
Harvey of the Saints, pinning him 
in 4:21. In the 167-pound match, 
Mike Kemp battled Bob Hickey to 
an 8-all deadlock. 
Rick Peterson scored St. Francis' final three points of the night with a 7-3 decision over Rick Komar in the 177-pound duel. But 190-pound AI Rocek came back with a quick pin of Bob Madden at 3:05 of their match, and heavyweight Mike Fanning recorded the fastest pin of the night, taking AI Diehl to the mat at 2:36. 
Notre Dame stands 11-3 on the season, a team record for vic­tories. The next dual meet for the Irish matmen is scheduled for March 4 at Milwaukee, where they will face Marquette University. 
This weekend, six members of the team, headed by Mike Fanning and Ken Ryan, will travel to Cincinnati for the qualifying rounds of the NCAA Wrestling Tournament. The first three finishers 'in each weight class will advance to the final ro­
to be held in March. 

SEND TODAY FOR FREE CATALOG ON 
YOUR SEMESTER AT SEA 
Academic Credit. Financial aid available. 


Monday, February 21, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
Tar Heels shake pesky ND five 
by Joe Passiatore had 17 points in all. Bobby Jones, Notre Dame's position quickly 
Notre Dame played highly a 6'8" substitute forward, saw deteriorated, though, when ranked North Carolina fairly enough action to sore 12 points. McAdoo hit the first five shots he even for the first twenty minutes In the early going it appeared took in the second half. Satutday afternoon, but the Tar that some of Digger Phelps' Gary Novak matched baskets Heels' height advantage took its success from last year in with McAdoo for a while, but the 
toll in the second half and Madison Square Garden was Tar Heels eventually piled up a 
Carolina coasted to a 99-74 win. going to carry over for Notre 67-53 lead. Notre Dame made a Forwards Gary Novak and Dame. The Irish, buoyed by the brief comeback to trail by ten, 69­Tom O'Mara were once again the early hot shooting of Tom O'Mara 59, however, six straight points nucleus of the Notre Dame attack led 16-12 at the 13:43 mark of the by North Carolina quickly ter­as they scored 21 and 20 points first half. North Carolina scored minated that rally. Tom O'Mara respectively. However, it was six quick points to assume an 18-fouled out with 10:23 remaining the front line of the Tar Heels that 16 advantage, but O'Mara and Notre Dame's position enabled North Carolina to win promptly retaliated with a steal became even more discouraging. decisively. of a North Carolina pass and a Digger Phelps began sub­
Six-foot-nine Bob McAdoo did lead pass to John Egart for a lay­stituting even before Dean Smith most of the damage to Irish upset up. On the next Irish offensive pulled his regulars, as North hopes as he was particularly play, O'Mara produced a three Carolina was possibly trying to effective early in the second half, point play after a driving inside atone for their recent loss to when the Tar Heels pulled away shot to make the score 21-18, Maryland with a big margin of from Notre Dame. McAdoo Notre Dame. victory in Saturday's game. 
totaled 20 points for the afternoon The teams exchanged baskets The Irish, who had a two gameand he got plenty of support from until another of North Carolina's win streak snapped by Satur­a couple of 6'6" forwards, Bill forwards John O'Donnell, scored day's loss will again be lookingChamberlain and Dennis Wuycik. 
to push the Tar Heels back out in for an upset when they play
Chamberlain had ten field front, 33-31. By halftime the Irish Fordham, Tuesday night. The goals and two free throws for 22 were still within striking range as Golden Rams defeated Rutgers Tom O'Mara scored twenty points in a losing cause as the Irish cagers points, while Wuycik was 11-11 in they were down only 47-41, due 109-90, Saturday to boost their surrl'rl'd a !1!1-7-1 setback at the hands of third-ranked North Carolina the free throw department and to Tom O'Mara's sixteen points. record to 14-7. Saturday in Madison Square Garden. 




Unlucky Irish lose 2 at Denver; slip to 


penalty. John Noble put the Irish in into the net. paced by freshman Greg Cortina, put with a 55.5 effort, and front. l-0, at 7:03 of the second Eric Pennick and Mike Gahagan, McMannon and Halleran turned
Krieger took a pass from Brian period, scoring his twelfth goal of Neither team was able to score finished sixth in the Central in fifth place performances, Mike Morenz just before the blue line, the year on a 15-footer from the again until the final minute of the Collegiate competition in in the triple jump and Pat in thealthough some of the Irish 
thought he might have been off­right side that went over Pioneer overtime stanza, when Krieger Kalamazoo, Mich., Saturday. 3-mile run. goalie Ron Grahame's glove registered his tainted tally to give The Notre Dame thinclads
side on the play, and skated in on Tom McMannon, a strong Irish 
hand. the Pioneers the win. totaled 39 points, largely on the
the ·left wing to beat Irish goalie hopeful in the hurdles, fell in the
performances of the first-year
Mark Kronholm with a short Les Larson almost gave Notre Irish Coach Lefty Smith had semi-finals and failed to qualify
Irish.
shot. Dame a two-goal bulge nine only words of praise for his club for the finals.
Cortina set a new Notre Dame minutes into the period. Pat
"I went down toward the left after the bitter loss, but he didn't The Salukis of Southern Illinois 
record, and a new Western
pipe," Krieger said afterwards, Conroy slipped a pass to the frosh feel the same way about the of­won the team competition with a
Michigan fieldhouse record with
"but I was indecisive. I was going defenseman at Grahame's right, ficiating. point total of 96. Eastern
a toss of 60' 10" in the shot put.
to shoot because there wasn't but Larson's shot missed the net, Michigan followed with 89 points.
"Everybody hustled," he said. Grid flash Eric Pennick 
much room, but he <Kronholm> hitting the left post instead. Bowling Green was third with 74 •
"Everybody did everything you finished second in the 300-yard 
wem down and I put a backhand Denver, thwarted on four points, Western Michigan fourth, 
could ask them to do. But that dash with a time of 31 seconds 
flip over his pads." previous power plays, finally and Air Force edged the Irish for 
penalty on DeLorenzi really flat, and copped a third place
It was one of the few shots the converted while the Irish were a finish in the 60-yard dash. the fifth place spot with a 40 point
irritated me. If I say how I feel 
Pioneers were able to get past man down and tied the score with effort.
about it. it'djust be sour grapes." Gahagan placed third in the Notre Dame's talented only 41 seconds left in the period. 100-yard dash. Coach Alex Wilson'~ thinclads sophomore who made 30 saves in Hob Palmer did the honors, Armstrong also lauded the Old reliables Elio PolseUi, Pat meet Western Michigan in a the game. Denver coach Murray picking the puck out of a goal Irish. commenting' Notre Halleran and Mike McMannon return to dual meet competition ' Armstrong complimented mouth scramble and flipping it Dame's team looked as good as also scored for the Irish. in the Convo at one o'clock. 
by Jim Donaldson 
Sports Editor 
It's generally agreed that to snap a losing streak a team has to get a few breaks. 
il
Notre Dame's hockey team got • some breaks over the weekend at Denver but they were all bad and i~ the Irish dropped a pair of one­i •• goal decisions to the Pioneers, ~ -· losing 3-2, in overtime, on Friday ; and 4-3 on Saturday. 
In the first game of the series, Denver took advantage of a penalty that should not have been called and an offside that wasn't to score a power play goal with only 17 seconds left in the sudden death overtime period and snatch a 3-2 victory. 
Saturday night, the Pioneers picked up a fluke goal midway through the first period while Notre Dame's netminder, Dick Tomasoni, was out of the cage and were never headed thereafter. 
The Irish played what was, perhaps, their best hockey game since winning the ECAC Holiday Tournament just before Kronholm saying, "He did an into the net.
Christmas, but saw their string of 
outstanding job. He has great
consecutive losses stretch to DeLorenzi put Notre Dame
anticipation and fast moves."
eight games. ahead again with 5:11 gone in the 
The twin setbacks left the Irish Kronholm, and the Irish, third period, speeding down the 
with a 7-15 WCHA record ( 11-17 deserved a better fate than losing right wing after taking a pass
overall) and dropped them into Friday night. from Bill Nyrop and gunning a ninth place in the league stan­The clubs battled through a shot into the lower left corner. 
dings, two points behind Colorado 
scoreless first period, thanks to
College and Michigan, both with Denver tied the score with a
Kronholm 's goaltending heroics.
24 points after splitting their near-perfect play. Krieger
Kronholm.stopped Krieger and
weekend series with Minnesota started things by breaking in on
Brian Morenz from in close while 
and Wisconsin respectively. Kronholm and shooting. He
the Irish were shorthanded
Bob Krieger netted the game­missed the shot but managed to
during the third minute of play
winning goal for the Pioneers at he made ex­get the puck to Morenz in the
and. 16:40, an 
corner.

Friday night scoring while Notre right Morenz hesitated,
cellent save on Rick Preston,
Dame's Ray DeLorenzi was in then slid a pass across the crease
moving up the right side on a
the penalty box because of a to Rick Bragnalo, at Kronholm's
three-on-two break. 
right, who tipped the puck hign
questionable interference 
lll'spitl' an outstanding job of goaltending by sophomore Mark Kronholm. the Irish dropped a :l-2 overtime decision to Denver Friday night. Tlw Pioneers also slipped past Notre Dame on Saturday, 4-3. 
any team I've seen this year. I score again in the period. Mark didn't see any weaknesses on Steinborn intercepted a Denver their club. We just got the passinthePioneers'zone,skated breaks." in on Grahame and slipped the Denver also got the first break puck underneath him with 2:54 
in Saturday's game as another of remaining. the unlucky, wierd plays that The Pioneers came out hustling have plagued the Irish at the outset of the final seesion throughout their losing streak and grabbed the lead again just 
occurred at 10:22 of the opening 46 seconds after the openingperiod. faceoff. Tomasoni came out of the Irish 
Pete McNab sent Tom Peluso
goal to stop a puck coming behind 
in on Tomasoni and the soph
the net but, strangly, the puck hit 
winger lit the red light with a
something at the bend along the 
short shot. Palmer gave Denver a 
left boards and caromed out in 
two goal lead at 11:44, scoring
front, onto the stick of Denver's 
with a shot from the right boards. 
Hick Bragnalo who flipped it into 
Eddie Bumbacco brought the
the empty net. 
Irish to within a goal, tipping in 
The Irish got that goal back 
Bill Green's shot from the point
with 6:18 gone in the second 
at 18:17 while Denver was
period, Jim Cordes beating 
shorthanded, but the Pioneers
Grahame from in close. 
hung on the post their 16th WCHA It took Denver just 35 seconds win in 24 outings. to regain the lead as Mike The Irish will return to home 
Lampman beat Tomasoni with a ice next weekend, meetinghard shot from the left wing at Michigan in a crucial four-point
6:53. 
series Friday and Saturday The Irish fought back to tie the nights. 





OBSERVER 

SPORTS 
Pages 6 and 7 

Cortina again places first 
The Notre Dame track team, Elio finished fourth in the shot 
---~------------­

Page 8 THE OBSERVER Monday, February 21, 1972 

Boos opens city crisis lectures 

Whitcomb vetoes bill 
reform the cities. Today, must both approve the project.by Jim McDermott however, the fragmentation Frank Jones of the ND 
Because of his legalizing of drinking by 18-21 year olds,prevents decisive action in city Economics Department also Indiana Governor Edgar D. Whitcomb has vetoes the Indiana 
"There will not be any action in governments, since no one person explained the negative income the cities if there is no ac-or agency holds the power or tax experiment with being 

age of majority bill. countability," according to John responsibility to act in many conducted in Gary, Indiana. 
In information received from the Indianapolis Star Roos of the Notre Dame cases. The tax is designed to give 
it was revealed that' Whitcomb felt the extension of legal Government Department. Roos Roos explained that this people a chance to escape · 
drinking priveleges to 18 year olds would increase an already was speaking at the first meeting fragmentation is stalling the poverty by allowing them to start 
high traffic death rate in the state. of the "Crisis in the Cities," last proposed cabinet structure in training programs, travel 
In the past week, calls to the governor's office have been 9 night in the Library Auditorium. South Bend's government. Each greater distances to work, or 
to I in opposition to the bill. The basis of this great opposition According to Roos, urban step of the process is being have their children cared for in 
was because of the section on drinking. government became fragmented delayed in the Indiana legislature day care centers while parents 
The House of Representatives of the state will meet this in the late 1800's in an attempt to and South Bend Council, which work. 
Wednesday and they will consider overriding Whitcomb's Additionally, the negative 
veto. However, Representative Dan E. Huff feels this will not be done. Huff, a minister, led the original opposition to theGoal notes ll.ll·ng deadll·ne income tax will allow people to 

. 
St. Mary's Student Govern­ment Vice-President John Gaal announced the plans for SMC Student Body elections yester­day. He stressed that all can­didates must submit their nominations by midnight 
Tuesday  to  the  SMC  Student  
Government offices.  
The Primary contest  will  be  
held  on  February  29.  SMC  

Student Government rues state· that if there are three or more' candidates there must be a Primary. The run-off election will be on March 2. 
The positions that require these nominations are the President and Vice-President, Academic 


P.O.W. info 
A group of ND-SMC students will be in the library concourse today from 9 A.M. to 10:00 P.M. with information concerning VIVA (Voices in Vital America). VIVA is a non-profit, non-political student organization dedicated to the plight of POW's and MIA's in North Vietnam. The main purpose of this display is to provide information to make the students aware of the situation of the POW's and MIA's. 

bill and he feels that he can raise enough opposition to sustain exist in the current welfare work without the penalties that 
the veto. Affairs Commissioner, and system, where every dollar 
The magic number of 51 votes will be needed to either Student Affairs Commissioner. earned is deducted from the 
sustain the veto or to override it. When the bill first passed, it . Questions on this matter can be welfare assistance. This, Jones 
carried 55 votes in the legislature. directed to t~e litStudent reported, will destroy the Government offices, 44 Holy initiative to work. The negative Cros.s Hall (4538) or Vice-tax will allow the person to keep President John Gaal 0076). part of the new earnings. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 

WANTED 
POETRY WANTED for An­
IN PERSON 
thology. Include stamped en­velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angles, 
California 90021.
ANDY 
Had Enough? Vote NO for SBP.

WILLIAMS-
Workers needed to campaign for "none of these." Call Terry 8547, Mike 8534. ·

HENRY 
Private duty. nurses registered R practical 5 or 6 days weekly, alternating weekends, 7-3 & 3·11

MANCINI 
shifts. Vicinity NO-SMC. Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Garage to rent near campus. Call
T~ekets o• lilt It 
8797.
Ticket 
NOTRE DAME Prices: A. C. C. 
Wanted: Campus talent for Edge
..... Sit. 1-5
Blucll1rs ••• $3•• 
City (SMC Coffeehouse) Auditions
St. Joe Bank 
7-10 Monday nights under Moreau
Law• Ar••.SUO 
and Branches 
or call 233-8123.
Loce. and •••$7.50 First Bank 
.........,
Ilia Floor 
Need ride to Northern Ill. U. Feb.
Robertson's 
25. Ca II 4383.
•d Plllfol'lls$7 
Elkhart Truth 
NOTICES 
DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and Within Europe. Leave anytime 
from NY-Chicago. Flight Center 227 North Randall, Madison, WI. 53706.
Make -Room For -Spring 
ATTENTION PRE-LAW STUDENTS!!! LSAT REVIEW COURSE NOW ACCEPTING STUDENTS FOR APRIL (AND OTHER LSAT TESTS.) FOR INFORMATION CONTACT: KELLY FLYNN, 232-8236.






CLEARANCE 
AVERAGE SCORE INCREASE 100 POINTS. 
Need typing done??? Will do typing for reasonable rates and on 
short notice --don't waste time pecking away. Call Chip 8256. 

A good selection of colors and styles. Values to S35 
SWEATERS NOW 112 OFF 
OVERSEAS JOBS FOR STUDENTS. Australia, Europe,

BODY SHIRTS· EXACTLY 112 PRICE 
S. America, Africa, etc. All professions and occupations, $700 _ A special group of these favorites. Stock up and save one-half. 

to $3,000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime. sightseeing, Free in­formation Write, JOBS

DRESS SHIRTS REDUCED Y2 
OVERSEAS, Dept. F2, Box 15071, From the most famous name, long sleeves. Reduced for clearance. 
San Diego, CA 92115. 
Books -Can't find them?


ALL-WEATHER COATS 
Try Pandora's 
S.B. at N.D. Aves. Noon-Midnight.


REDUCED FOR CLEARANCE 
TEACHERS! M.A.'s abd's, earn a pittance while working for small new classical Christian 7th-9th grade school. English, Latin, Lined and unlined styles. From a special group. 

SPORT COATS YOU SAVE 1f4, Y2, V3 
Math. Science teachers needed. Many colors and patterns in the most popular woven styles 
Send vita list of references, any statements for curriculum design to Magdalen School, Post Office

MEN'S SUITS SAVE 1/4, 112, Y3 NOW 
Box 1225, South Bend, Indiana Job-hunting apparel now reduced, a selection of colors, styles 
46624. All candidates will be contacted. 


SHIRTS! SHIRTS! SHIRTS! 
EUROPE THIS SUMMER! Earn For spring it's the 
Notre Dame credit at UniversitySurf shirts in stripes Golf shirts, mock of Vienna. Austria. Ample op­Wallace Berry, 34 

and colors. $6-$7 turtle or placet front. sleeve. S8-S9 portunity for tours or independent$6-$7$7.50 
travel. 234-6519. 


Nassau Trip -March 24-31. $202 . inclusive for quad accomodations. Hotel and air trans. available

PAY NEXT 
separately. On sale now at Student Union Ticket Office. Questions: Call 7757.

JUNE, JULY, 


AUGUST 
Pay 1/J, 1/3, 1/3 and we never add a service or carrying charge. What could be easier? 
Buses will be run again to Shula's. They leave the C.C.E. on the half hour from 2:30 to 4:30. 
Tired of Student Government B.S.? Join the Caruso-Long campaign. Call 1076, 7950, 1025, 7920. 
FOR SALE 

Parts and Accessories for Im­ported cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 272-7187. 
New 8-track tapes for sale ($4) 230 Fisher Call 1972. 
Quality 8-track tapes only $3. Call 6715. 
ROBERTS 770 X Tape Recorder: Cross Field heads, sound on sound, sound with sound, 4 speeds. 
Call 3729. 
Michelin X tires--165-380-15" with tubes. For all VW Bugs; most 15" sports and imports. Best offer 255-6726. 
Nearly new Robert's 1720 reel to reel stereo tape recorder. Originally $200, now $135. Call 
Bob 3151 after midnight. 
FOR RENT 

Have three-four bedroom houses available for June or September. Call 234-9364. 
PERSONALS 

Mickey-Wheezer Happy third anhiversary. Now aren't you glad I turned around. Love, Findley 
To the Chicago Six: You've got what it takes! 
Will the pretty red-haired Texan from MANASA BOOTH Call Chriss 1061 
Dear No. 5 Thanks for three beautiful ones. 
Bacon would be proud. Love, Mick 
To Mom, Thanx for the wonderful cookies The Kiddies 
To: Secret Admirerer (Admirer) 
Thanks  !Don't  keep  me  
guessing! l  
Paul  

LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: Blue wallet at Mardi Gras ­Reward. Call 272-5374. 
Lost: Black. vinyl NCAA Fencing Tournament notebook in 214 Computer Bldg. Important papers inside needed. Reward offered. Dan Rock 3589. 
Words 1da 2da Jda 4da 5da 
1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-151.001.501.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 




