

--~~-----­
Inside 
Jazz festival begins ... pg 2 Barkett on N D ...pg 3 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VI, No. 96 Thursday, March 9, 1972 

McGovern runs strong in New Hampshire Primary 
lcl l!li2 New York Times 

Manchester, N.H., March 8--Sen. George S. McGovern not only ran a strong second to Sen. Edmund S. Muskie in yesterday's preferential primary here, but he apparently also won a share of New Hampshire's delegation to the Democratic National Convention. 
Final results on the voting for 20 convention delegates, a separate category on the primary ballot, will not be available until tomorrow. But with more than half of the delegate balloting counted today, the count was 14 delegates pledged to or favorable to the candidacy of Muskie and six pledged to or favorable to McGovern. 
McGovern a strong secon·d 

During the day McGovern's share of the delegate slate fluctuated from zero to 10. His showing in this contest was a surprise, because the Muskie campaign had been confident that it would sweep all 20 positions. 
As late as last night Muskie's staff was predic­ting, on the basis of the returns in the preferential primary, that their man would win all 20 places. New Hampshire's delegation will cast 18 votes at the Miami Beach convention, nine-tenths of a vote for each delegate. 
President Nixon seemed to have no trouble, on the basis of nearly complete returns, winning all 14 Republican delegates. 
Also challenging the Democratic frontrunners for delegate votes were Mayor Sam Yorty, Sen. Vance Hartke of Indiana and Write-in campaigner Rep. Wilbur D. Mills of Arkansas. They were un­successful, as were Republican Reps. Paul N. McCloskey and John M. Ashbrook in their challenges to Nixon. 
As the delegate vote continued to trickle in, nearly complete unofficial returns showed the following results in the presidential preferential primaries. 
DEMOCRATS 
Muskie, 40,006 (48 per cent) 
McGovern 31,285 (37 per cent) 
Yorty, 5,128 (6 per .cent 
Mills 3,440 (4 per cent) 
Hartke 2,302 (3 per cent) 
REPUBLICANS 
Nixon, 75,997 (69 per cent) 
McCloskey, 22,357 (20 per cent) 
Ashbrook, 1,121 0 per cent) Voting in the 
Democratic 

primary was much heavier than expected with a total vote of 85,000, compared with 60,000 in the 1968 primary. 
There are strong indications that the Democratic vote was swelled by a swing of in­dependent voters into that party to support McGovern's 
· campaign. McCloskey, who competed with 
McGovern for
Muskie's victory seems 
those independent
tarnished. 
voters, came to 

the same conclusion today. "I would say," McCloskey stated, "that four of five independents who voted did so in the Democratic primary." McGovern's staff came to a similar conclusion 
based on their analysis of the youth vote for their candidates piled up in the college towns where they conducted intensive voter registration campaigns. 
Nearly all students who registered did so as in­dependents. Their participation was reflected in the votes at 
Durham, the home of the University of New Hampshire, and Hanover, the home of Dartmouth College, where McGovern won 82 per cent and 76 per cent of the vote, respectively. 
In the college town of Henniker, McGovern defeated Muskie by a 107 to 64 margin, In the same 

town, the McGovern organization had recently registered 52 student voters. 
While the youth­independent vote 
· factor reflected a basic strength in the McGovern organization's campaign, there were indications of a weakness that could affect his campaign in the April 25 Massachusetts McGovern ran a very primary. strong second. Muskie showed 
an unexpected 

strength in the Rockingham County suburbs--a sprawling subur­ban community on the Massachusetts border-­where McGovern's appeal was expected to be greater. The area is made up largely of new, young families that have moved into the state from the Boston area and most observers believe they still reflect the political feelings of that area. 
Only in the final days of the campaign did McGovern find himself in trouble in that area, largely because Massachusetts supporters of Muskie had moved across the border to use their influence there. 

0 n t h e 
Republican side there was still some question as to what affect New Hampshire would have on the f u t u r e o f McCloskey's campaign. McCloskey told supporters Tuesday night that he would continue to campaign in Massachusetts, Rhode Island and Oregon but ad-Nixon had an easy time visers were un­with the Republican voters. sure today if his 20 
per cent showing would be strong enough to attract the financial backing that those races would require. 
Ashbrook, on the other hand, seemed sure of carrying the conservative challenge to Nixon in the other primaries despite the fact his vote was half that of McCloskey's. He has already filed a delegate slate in the President's state of California. 
Nearly lost in the presidential campaigning were the low-level campaigns in both primaries for vice presidential preferences. 
The only active candidate, former Massachusetts Gov. Endicott Peabody, a Democrat, gathered nearly 33,000 votes. His only challenge came in the form of some 1,800 write-in votes on the Democratic ballot for vice president Agnew. 
Agnew swamps Brooks 

In the Republican primary write-in campaigns, Agnew swamped a disavowed campaign on behalf of Massachusetts Republican Senator Edward W. Brook by a 6-to-1 margin. 
Students try to chcmge the new calendar 
by Michael Baum 
Mike Davis, first year student, announced last night the organization of a campaign to petition a change in the planned academic calendar for next year. 
The petition, which will be circulated the next three days, reads: "The academic s~ as planned would cause excessive hardships on many students due to the early opening of school and the shortness of breaks. We, the un­dersigned, request that the University Academic Council reconsider the schedule for the 1972-73 academic year." _ 
Davis, acting as spokesman fo~ the group circulating the petition, asked that all interested students contact them at 283-6938. He also an­nounced a general meeting on the petition to be held tonight at 6:30in the Badin Vintage Cinema. 
Explaining the mechanics of the drive, Davis said, "We new have volunteers from this hall <Badin) plus four guys for other halls. We're going to ser·.· .me guy around to each hall and canvass ~•e hall tomorrow night (Thursday). We're going to be at the North and South Dining Halls tomorrow night, Friday night and Saturday night if we need it." 
Davis also said that the petition would also be circulated on the St. Mary's campus. 
Asked if an alternate calendar would be proposed, Davis explained that the purpose of the petition was just to have the proposed plan changed. Speaking for himself, he wai8 that he favored the present calendar. 
"Fr Burtchaell's reasoning that we need a change is poor reasoning," he said, "because the schedule is good this year." 
"We want to show that the majority of people are dissatisfied." He added, "We're expecting a pretty good turnout." 
Davis explained that the petitions, when signed, would be turned over to Prive Mover­designate R. Calhoun Kersten. 
Kersten, outlining his planned actions on the question, said that he planned to talk with University Provost James T. Burchaell today if possible. ' 
"I spoke to the Hall President's Council yesterday," he explained, "and asked each of them working through their section leaders to take a referendum on the thing, which I thought would be quicker and a little easier than a petition. Until I'm armed with some concrete facts there is not much I can do." 
Kersten, who will not take office officially until 
the 1st of April, noted that he had tried to find out 
details a.bout the proposed change in the 
calendar m advance of the actual decision but 
with little success. ' 
"yY~ got the run around on the whole thing. The decision was made by the Academic Council. We tri~d to find out as s?on as the Observer (q.v.) prmted a rather specious editorial claiming that It was the second week in August, what the deal was. I called up the Student Body President's off~ce, however he wasn't there. Somebody in the office told me he thought the meeting was going to be Thursday night at 7 : 00-which turned out to be when the Senate meeting was. We didn't have any idea when the meeting was. We didn't find out the results until it was printed in the Ob­sl'rver (q.v.)." 
Kersten also suggested that the student representatives on the Academic Council did not acc~rately represent student feeling on the subJect, and that the decision was the result of trying to rush the issue to a close. 
Kersten noted-that popular sentiment seemed 
to be against the new arrangements, "I've yet to 
speak to anybody that's for it." 

the observer Thursday, March 9, 1972 
Kickoff with jazz panel "quiz" 

14th annual Jazz Festival begins tonight 

The 14th annual Collegiate Jazz l<'estival gets underway tonight with a symposium, open to the public, at 7:30 in the Center for Continuing Education, Notre Dame. 
Featured at the symposium will be the panel of CJF judges plus CJF master of ceremonies, Willis Conover. This years judges are Jamey Aebersold (noted jazz educator l, Aynsley Dunbar <drummer with the Mothers of Invention l, Roberta Flack <number one female vocalist, Downbeat), Hubert Laws <number one flute player, Downbutl, Dan Morgenstern <editor, Downbeat), and George Hussel <famous arranger and 
composer). In past years the symposium has consisted of a panel discussion on a general topic related to jazz (e.g., "Where is the jazz audience?" "jazz-rock: fission or fusion?"). This year, in an effort to give the symposium greater definition, to give the panelists more specific matters for discussion, and to make it more interesting for the audience, a new approach is 
being tried. The panelists will undergo what in Downbeat is known as a "blind-fold test." 
Selections of recorded music will be played for the panel and the audience alike, but only the audience will be provided with 

Explosion on earlier flight 
information about the recor­dings: titles, musicians, dates, etc. Then the members of the panel will be invited to comment of the music they have listened to: to offer evaluations, criticisms, reactions of various kinds. 
The point of the experiment is not to try to "stump" the panel <which would really be im­possible, anyway, given its members' range of musical knowledge>. The point is to give the audience insights into the workings of the judges minds, as they respond to specific per­formances of specific songs. Copies of the adjudication sheets from which the judges will work during the body of the festival 
<Friday and Saturrl:wl will be .available at the symposium to the audience as well as the panel members. 
The second event in the 
festival, a lecture on jazz history 
by Morgenstern, will be at 2:00 p. 
m. Friday in the Library Auditorium, Notre Dame. Like the symposium, this event is free and open to the public. 
The main attraction of the festival, live jazz, gets underway Friday night at 7:30 in Stepan Center, Notre Dame, Additional sessions <also in Stepan Center>, are scheduled for 1:30 p. m. and 
7:30 p. m., Saturday. 
Tickets for the evening sesions are three dollars; the afternoon session is two dollars and a pass for the three sesions is five dollars. Tickets may be pur­chased at the Student Union Ticket Office, Pandora's Bookstore, and Witmer-McNease Music Store, plus at the door for each sesion. 



Is this the perfect Datsun? 
Your Datsun dealer is the Small Car Expert. Let 


FBI finds bomb aboard TWA flight Ask the expert. 
((')1!172 New York Times 
New York, March 8-A bomb heavily damaged an unoccupied Trans World Airlines jet in Las 'Vegas today in what apparently was the second installment of a $2 million extortion plot that came to light Tuesday with the finding of a bomb aboard another T.W.A. jet at Kennedy International Airport. 
The still-unfolding scenario threw the airlines into a furor. The tightest over-all security on record was imposed at airline airports across the United States and extended to key overseas points. Switchboards were kept busy with crank calls conveying more threats. Reservations were cancelled by many nervous travelers. 
The Las Vegas bombing was the most dramatic event in a day 
that  brought  these  other  
developments:  
The  Federal  Bureau  of  In- 

SMC sophs host 
parent weekend 
Parents of sophomore studentS at Saint Mary's College will be guests of their daughters at the annual weekend reception March 10-12. General chairman.of the 1972 event is Jill Hampe, Pitt­sburgh, Pa. 
Activities will open March 10 with registration in Holy Cross Hall, a program of entertainment in O'Laughlin Auditorium, and a social affair at an off-eampus location to be announced. Saturday events will include presentations in the major fields, an open house with faculty, ad­ministrative reception, and an evening banquet in the cafeteria. 
Brunch will follow the mass at 
8:30 Sunday morning in Church of Loretto. Other participants in the program include Maureen Hogers, Sandusky, Ohio, class president, and Dr. Richard C. Pilger, professor of chemistry. 
vestigation conllrmect reports that an explosive device had been found in unaccompanied luggage removed from a 'United Airlines San Francisco-to-Seattle flight Tuesday morning following a telephoned warning. Aviation sources here said that the device was not believed powerful enough 
to have destroyed a plane in flight and that the caller had made no immediate demand for money. The general belief was the the incident was not connected with the extortion plot against T.W.A. 
The Police Department here said a chartered business jet had been flown from New York to the Atlanta Airport during the previous night with money the plotters had demanded, in a mid­afternoon phone call, be delivered there. Efforts of the 
F.B .1. to contact the plotters at phone numbers that had been supplied were unavailing, and the plane returned to New York after four and a half hours in Atlanta. 
A strong view was developing that the smuggling of bombs aboard the T.W.A. airliners had to be the work of one or more industry employees, perhaps current or past T.W.A. workers, because of the intimate knowledge their work revealed of airline operations. the F.B.I., which has been releasing few details of its intensive in­vestigations, was reported questioning T.W.A. employees who might have had experience, in the Army or elsewhere, in handling explosives .. 
The Transportation Depart­ment's Assistant Secretary for Security Affairs, Benjamin 0. Davie, Jr., struck an optimistic note on the probable outcome of the plot. 
"In my opinion," he said in a telephone interview,"The T.W.A. extortion effort is over. They can't get any more bombs any planes, because of the tight security. And the airline is not going to give them any money. That's my current opinion, and I hope it turns out to be correct. 
The Las Vegas blast occurred at 3:55AM local time (6:55 EST), almost seven hours after the 



"MAROONED IS COMING' 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Boeing 707 had arrived at McCarran Airport on a non-stop flight from Kennedy with a thin load of 10 passengers and seven crewmen. 
The plane had been searched before departure, in the air in response to a warning phone call, and again on the ground at its parking spot about 300 yards from the main terminal at McCarran. But the concealment had been too ingenious, lending further support to the theory of an inside job. · 
No one was injured in the ex­plosion, though it almost com­pletely destroyed the cockpit and forward area. Ground crewmen had been getting on and off the plane through the night readying it for a later flight out. But none was aboard when the bomb detonated. 
Authorities in Las Vegas said the bomb apparently was planted in the cockpit or the restroom just behind it. 
A typed note found in a locker at TWA's Kennedy Terminal said that. if the $2 million payoff was not made, bombs would go off in four T.W.A. jets at six-hour in­tervals starting at 1 p.m. Tuesday. The last entry on this timetable was 7 A.M. New York Time, today, just five minutes after the Las Vegas explosive was triggered. 
Officials' attention had been directed to the locker by an anonymous male who made the first phone call to T.W.A.-the call that warned of a bomb aboard a Los Angeles-bound Boeing 707 that was about to take off for Kennedy. 
him show you what makes the 1200 Sedan so perfect. 
• 
Up to 30 miles per gallon 

• 
Safety front disc brakes 

• 
Whitewall tires • Optional 3-speed automatic transmission 


Drive a Datsun ... then decide. 

DATSUN 
PRODUCT OF NISSAN 
Jim Hammes 
DATSUN 
2102 L.W.W. MISH, 255-9644 
Mon. & Thurs. Eve. 


COPIE:S UNLIMITED 
Quality and fast service is the main facet of copies unlimited. 
The Xerox 3600 III copier used in copies unlimited is the fastest and best reproducing machine made. We specialize in any short run order you may have. 8lf2 x 11 and 8lf2 x 14 paper is used in copies unlimited. This paper is especially made for the 3600 III. While going through the machine the toner is fused into the paper to prevent smearing, fading and cracking. Half tones and solids are remarkable in quality. Call 233-9471 or come up to suite 402 Whit­comb-Keller Bldg. and ask about the other services we offer. 
Office hours: M on Thrut Fri 9-5, Sat 10-4 Emergencies after hours call 232-9834. 

ON CAMPUS MAIL 
-LAST PICKUP THIS FRIDAY (3/1 0/72) BETWEEN 1 PM AND 2 PM. 
-THERE WILL NO MORE PICKUPS AFTER THE ABOVE DATE. 
Thursday, March 9, 1972 
Warns ol"uphill struggle" 



Barkett optimistic on ND future
-



by Bob Long 
Commenting on the future of Notre Dame three weeks before he steps down as Student Body President, John Barkett said that he foresees "a very bright future" although "it will be an uphill path strewn with rocks." 
He cited coeducation, student affairs, and the general loneliness of the individual student as the primary areas which must be dealt with. 
"Coeducation takes in all kinds of people·, projects, and money," he said. "You've got to make a place for women not only in the faculty, but in the administration as well. And you've got to make the social facilities around here adequate enough to meet the needs of men and women on campus." 
He charged that Notre Dame has lagged behind in student affairs. 
"It's a great academic in­stitution, but when they talk about educating the complete man, they have ignored, comparatively, the problem of the individual outside the classroom.'' 
He cited "vast areas which have virtually been untouched:" the problems of the off-campus student, drug usage, and human sexuality. 
"It just boggles the imagination how much could be­done in student affairs." he said. 
Barkett personally feels that there is much loneliness on campus. 
"I think that people go through life, day by day, and don't make many fl:"iends here. There are too many barriers existing between people. It's up to Notre Dame to analyze this problem and try to respond to it." 
He was especially critical of the advising system, referring to 

World Briefs 
(c) 1!172 New York Times 
Washington--Secretary of State Rogers, testifying before the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, rejected a suggestion that the time was ripe for a re-examination of the need for security alliances in Asia. Rogers called the timing of such a move· "very unfortunate." The Administration has gone out of its way to assure its Asian allies that the China trip of Nixon would not undermine longtime ties. 
Washington--State and Defense Department sources said that the two departments had offered United States assistance torescue a Soviet Nuclear powered missile submarine in trouble off Newfoundland but that the offers were politely turned down. Instead , Soviet vessels have converged on the scene to rescue the submarine themselves. 
Washington--The House instructed its negotiators with the Senate to insist on the strong house language restricting busing to achieve school integration. The rare action, voted 272 to 139, allows the House negotiators no room for compromise with the milder Senate bill and could imperil the chances of enactment of fhe higher education bill to which antibusing amdendments have been attached. 
Nt>w York-A bomb placed in or near the cockpit of a Trans World Airlines jet exploded as the plane sat unoccupied at the Las Vegas Airport, heavily damaging the craft. It was ap­parently the second installment of a $2million extortion plot­and officials believed that the plotters were one or more in­dustry employees. 

on campus today 
8:00 
meeting--committee for ulster justice, basement of lewis hall 

8:00 
lecture--john paton davies, jr., library auditorium 


4:00 lecture--dr. william arrowsmith, "white men and red men; an american modal encounter", library auditorium 
7:00 meeting--students for mcgovern, fiesta lounge 
at notre dame -st. mary's 

BEST BANDS IN TOWN -Two Bands a night -Dancing 6 nights a week (closed Monday.) -No cover on Tues., Wed., Thurs. -Open till 2 a.m. "One stop entertainment center"
---Cocktail Lounge Bowling Billiards S~"'"'s J'\lite C!u~ 
2802 SOUTH IIth ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
616/683-4350 
the "plight of sophomores." 
"Most of them are in limbo as 
to where they're going and what 
they want to do...who is there to 
advise them? An advisor should 
be more than a guy who signs 
your registration form." 
Studt>nt Government This Year 
Barkett feels that the most far­reaching achievement of Student Government this year, and one that, for the most part, has not received the attention it deserved was his being named to the Search Committee for a new Vice-President of Student Af­fairs. 
":rhat man is going to affect everybody that works with students outside the classroom," he said. 
He also pointed to the success of the InPIRG petition drive, the Day Care Center, and giving $10,000 back to the residence halls. He praised the Student Union for putting on the finest concert program I've seen in the past four years. 
Barkett was critical of the student body, whom he termed as ":>elf-interested." They never relate to you unless they want something, he claimed. "Then at the end of the term they say you never did anything, but never once during the year did they come knocking at your door to let you know what they felt." 
He feels that the future of student life lies in the residence halls, stating that things like test files, interhall athletics, and social events can break down the "barriers between students." 
Future of Student Government Commenting on Student Government's future, Barkett claimed, "through Bob's (The Prime Mover) campaign the students were made to look upon Student Government as if it were a bunch of individuals who were self-perpetuating. The whole group we have working here came into office this year ... but those myths that were put across sounded to people. To a basically ignorant student body, in a sense, they were believed." 
He stressed that the Student Body President and Vice­President carry much more weight than any other students on campus, and expressed concern that Kersten might not come across very well to ad­ministrators, "because he's already admitted that he doesn't · have the faintest idea of what's going on." 
"I intend to help, but to stay out of the picture as much as I can because it's the type of thing th~ person should learn himself," he 
added 

JIM HIBSCHMAN PONTIAC 
301 Lincolnway E. Mishawaka 255-4771 
The Day You Buy A Diamond 
Emerald 
Ruby 

Sapphire 
18 K. Jewelry 
Call Us: 

Diamond Import Company 
The Ultimate in Diamonds SeEln by Appointmen't Suite 602 St. Joseph Bank Bldg. South Bend, Indiana Phone 287-1427 




COLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL 
FRIDAY MARCH lOth 7:30PM 
I 

admission $3.00 
SATURDAY MARCH 11th 
1:30PM and 7:30PM afternoo;n__ admission $2.00 evening admission $3.00 
Roberta Flack, Aynsley Dunbar, 
Dan Morgenstern, Jamey Aebersold, 
Hubert Laws and George Russell 
This weekend at Stepan Center-be there. 
------------~----~-------------------------~-----­
Thursday, March 9, 1972
the observer
4 




THE OBSERVER 
News: 283-1715 EditoriaI: 283-8661 

AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Jim Jendryk Editor-in-chief Business Manager 
Don Ruane Bill Bauerle Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer,Business: 283-7471 
on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
from the editor's desk 
Journalism: a theory 
Journalism is a curious phenomenon. This is especially true on a campus with only one newspaper; the ground rules change markedly from the city model in which sub­scribers have some measure of choice regarding their information sources. In Chicago, for example, readers can select The Sun-Times, The Tribune, The Daily News, The Chicago Today, or a whole host of non-daily publications distributed on a neigh­borhood basis. When only one daily is available, the competitive system typified in most metropolitan areas must be discarded. 
The city model 
In a community, the media serve as a balancing force by bringing the decisions of the political and economic powers into the realm of public scrutiny. The community can, then, take whatever action necessary to reverse unfavorable decisions based on the information which has been publicized. In the competitive model, different publications with different axes to grind can slant the news, often unintentionally. But this biased effect is countered by the other publications' tedious efforts to uncover the other side of the story. In this system, in­formation is usually fairly complete and decisions based on the current news are rational to the extent that these news sources are played-off against one another. 
In the non-competitive model, there's quite a difference. A single daily publication has the obligation (you can call it responsibility if you like) to present only balanced stories and opinions that scale both sides of any issue. The media still serve as a public scrutinizer but if no other daily paper can exercise the counter scrutinizing power of printing the other side of a controversial story then there's a good chance that the public information will not be complete. As a result, decisions based only on media­induced news cannot be rational. 
Opinion Shaping 
Everyone realizes that a daily paper 
inherently possesses a great potential 
for opinion modification. In fact, even 
if that publication attempts to abandon 
its role as a thought influencer, the 
result will not be neutrality but sloppy 
opinion shaping. The task, then, 
becomes determining when the in­
formation presented to the public 
represents the complete story, or at 
least as complete a story as available 
information allows. When this is ac­
complished, opinion shaping becomes 
neutral to the extent that each person's 
decision is determined by his own 
value system rather than the value 
system of the writer. 

For example, when the Chicago 
Tribune published a story shortly after 
the death of Fred Hampton in which it 
claimed that holes in a given door were 
the result of outgoing Panther bullets, the Sun-Times quickly rebutted the story with a demonstration that those particular holes were, in fact, nail holes. As far· as the public was con­cerned all the pertinent facts were available. An individual's decision, then, was based on his own beliefs and values regarding the State Attorney's office and the Panthers. If either of the two stories had been allowed to stand unchallenged, then the media would have been exercising irresponsible opinion shaping. All the facts would not be avaible for public scrutiny and, as a result, people's decisions would have been biased in favor of the value system supporting the story which was printed. 
J ourn a lis tic responsibility 

In opinion columns and editorials a journalist can influence the public by arguing for a particular value system. He cannot, however, deliberately hide relevant facts just to make his argument stronger. In a competitive system, he will be exposed by his rivals. In a singular system, he will lose the confidence of his readers and perform a major disservice to the community, even if he--individually-­feels that his presentation of the facts, in spite of the incompleteness, will result in some greater good. 
Realizing the factors which control a paper's power is considerably easier than taking measures to insure that the power is used responsibly. Some of the actions The Observer has taken in this direction include: --signing editorials to identify the immediate source of the information contained therein. While these editorials still represent the opinion of the editorial board, identification of the author eliminates much public con­fusion regarding the source of the argument. --holding unclear news stories for clarification by faculty and ad­ministrative sources when this clarification may cast a different light on the story. --initiation of extensive efforts to solicit faculty and administrative opinion in addition to the student columns currently printed. 
A newspaper cannot relinquish its role as an opinion modifier. To the greatest extent possible the paper has an obligation to present the viewpoint of the entire community. This is the best way to serve the students and the whole community because the ultimate goal is not merely opinion shaping but enlightenment--an enlightenment brought on by each individual weighing the news and deciding for himself. 
Johp Ahgwd Nite Editor: Dan'I Barrett, Beth Hall Headlines and Layout: Peter O'Fries, Ken Kampman, Don Biancamano Sports Editor: Jimmy Donaldson News Editor: Jerry Lutkus Nite Controller: Joe Wilkowski (in a return appearance) 
'l'hmne room 
Am er;c a 's ChiI d r en mummumunumuunmtummmtmtmmuu The Greening of the University, continued 
numuumutmmumummmummummmummmmmuuu Jerry Lu tk us The University of Notre Dame, Administrative Division has again put it to the University of Notre Dame, Student Division. It seems as if it's becoming more and more apparent that the Administration of this school has a pre-arranged plan of how this school is going to be run­which is not necessarily bad. But what is bad is that the students also have an idea of how the University should be run and there seems to be no compromise. The University Academic Board (65 members-7 students) decided Monday afternoon that the students of this school will return for classes in August and be allowed an 8 day break in the middle of November. There was student representation on the vote and ac­cording to Fred Giuffrida, a member of the Council, the majority of the students voted for the new calendar. Was the student vote representative? It's really questionable. Last week in attempting to reveal the proposed calendar to the students, Observer reporters got the cold shoulder from both the Registrars Office and the Office of the Dean of Administration. When the secretaries found out why the reporters were calling, they were not allowed to speak to the gnetlemen. It's almost as if the Administration was attempting to hide something. Had they been unafraid of student opinion, the fair move would have been to release the proposed calendar. Then student members of the Council could have talked to students and found out how they really felt. Then, students could have proceeded to protest against the move and have the possibility of getting the calendar changed. As the situation appears now, there is a great deal of student opinion against the new calendar. The Observer telephones were ringing all afternoon with students in opposition to the move trying to find out how they could change it. But there seems to be little future in that. Giuffrida said that it seems improbable. The Administation and the Academic Council would have to change their minds on it. And that only happens if the students can get the two to even reconsider it. The attitude of the Administration on the matter seems to be a bothered one-that all the ruckus is a real pain. That could be why they passed the calendar without releasing it to the students. This way they really don't have to bother with any protest on it. It's passed and done with. The attitude more than the action is what is really apalling here because it is an attitude that has persevered throughout this year. The Administration made an arbitrary decision to move out Badin and Walsh students. The Administration decided to terminate the merger with St. Mary's. The Trustees decided that the student body was immoral and smelt of liquor and decided to pass restrictions and sanctions on them. There's one similarity in all cases--the lack of student voice. The Administration is really playing their own little power game which would be fine if it effected only them. But everyone knows the students bear the brunt of it. It would be terribly infantile, however, to assume that the University was playing mere power games. There's no question that they have a long-range philosophy in mind and that's good because there must exist a policy of administration with an eye to the future. But then why must that philosophy remain hidden? Students at Badin received a run-around by Fr. Blantz when questioned about their removal from the haiL The 600 students who showed up at the SLC meeting to protest the sanctions heard that the proposal was being returned to committee never to be heard of again. The merger has died behind closed door and a proclaimed black-out. WHY? I can't answer that and I'm sure--positively sure-that the people can answer it won't. So what exists here is a real question of overriding philosophy. It's the same question that plagued SMC last December when the merger was declared unmerger---who constitutes the University? Who is the University? Is the Administration the University or are we or is there a compromise? You really can't argue that we all make up the University--the Administration, the faculty, and students. Thus, we all must have say in the University process and to have say, we must all be informed of the University process. This means that the Ad­ministration had nothing to hide from us~ They should have informed us of the proposed schedule, so that we, who must serve under that schedule could have decided whether we liked it or not. Instead, the Administration usurped the power of a tripartite University and hid the truth from us. The path of the student body is clear. Petitions for a review of the new schdule are now circulating. Whether or not you believe that the new schedule is bad, you should sign the petition. If anything, we may be able to get the Administre:tion to recosider. That in itself would be a retention of our place in the tripartite system. It's doubtful if the Administration will reconsider. But there's no question that it would be worth the effort of putting your name on a piece of paper. Sign the petition. 

Thursday, March 9, 1972 the observer 

Letters to the Editor 
POW bracelets 

Editor: 
I am directing this letter to Chuck Leader, campus organizer for the POW bracelets. In my opinion your requests seem illogical and unreasonable. To quote the article, "The program is part of a national campaign to show the Viet Cong that the United States people are seriously concerned about their refusal to uphold the Geneva Convention which they ratified in 1957." To begin with, the NLF <Viet Congl never signed any accord. But more basically I think it's absurd to demand of the "enemy" what the United States refuses to do, that is, uphold the 1957 Geneva agreement. 
I am just as concerned as you are about the treatment of POW's. but not just those made in America. You, just like Nixon, are using the POW's as a means of placating the U.S. public. Contrary to popular belief the Nixon-Kissinger team are not decreasing American in­volvement-they are diminishing only the visible side. For every American soldier removed from the field, four times his equivalent in machinery replaces him. 
Yet the basic point has been avoided. It is not the NLF which has acted immorally. It is the U.S. involvement, to say nothing of its unethical tactics 
<e.g. terror warfare via anti­personnel bombs l, and its sup­fOrt of a puppet dictatorship which constitutes immoral ac­tivity. Outrage shouls be justly aimed at the United States government for fraud of the American people and for murder of our Vietnamese brothers. So drop the POW-election year platitudes and face the real enemy -ourselves and the machine we call our government. 
unsigned 

the Flanner letter 
Editor: 
On March 3 you printed a letter signed by 21 residents of the ninth floor of Flanner which implied that John Barkett was only in­terested in being Student Body President so that he could get into Harvard Law School, and that his inep.t administration led to the election of King Kersten. (The letter smacked of Observer editorials, so I checked the student directory and found that by a strange coincidence Glen Corso lives on the ninth floor of Flanner.l 
First, I would like to comment 

that Barkett didn't need to be 
SBP to get accepted to Harvard 
Law School. I have also been 
accepted at Harvard, and I 
haven't joined a single campus 
organization in four years. I 
believe it is Harvard's policy to 
accept intelligent people as op­
posed to editors-in-chief of 
newspapers, campus leaders, 
etc. 
Secondly, Kersten was elected 

not because of Barkett but in 
spite of him. The students and 
the Observer strongly supported 
Barkett in last year's election 
because he is a man of reason. 
T.C. Treanor states on the editorial page that student leaders are "fools" who seek "affirmation". Speak for yourself, Mr. Treanor. You are a 
on POW bracelets, John Barkett, pornography, and more 
fool seeking affirmation. And the not be a Christian, but nowhere in best, I chose Saint Mary's And though we are not now 
students won't listen. They his letter did he clearly define College--an institution of national that strength which in the old ignored you when you ran for Christian. According to Webster, prestige and of superior days SLC, and they are ignoring you a Christian is one who follows the academics, and institution that Moved earth and heaven now. Yes, Mr. Treanor, people teachings of Jesus Christ. <There would allow me to take my place that which we are, we are--' like you will "vanish in the haze", is no stipulation as to whether in an urban, industrial world both One equal temper of heroic because you serve no purpose that person be bisexual or intelligently and confidently. ·hearts, other than getting attention. homosexual. l The author of the Secondly, I am a modern Made weak by time and fate, letter made a reference to 1 woman who has been raised but strong in will Corinthians 6:9-12 in which Paul in the Notre Dame-Saint To s!rive, to seek, to find, and 
But Kersten is not a "fool 
innumerates those people who Mary's tradition, a unified not to yield.
seeking affirmation'', Mr. 
will not inherit the Kingdom of tradition that made the
Treanor. You forget his cam­(;od. Paul states that those who University of Notre Dame and And therefore, I shall continue paign is a satire. What he says 
are effiminate and those who Saint Mary's College the leading "to strive, to seek, to find and not applies to you, the other commit sins against nature will institutions for Catholic to yield"--in the unified heritage presidential candidates, and all not see heaven. Being effeminate education in the United States. It of the University of Notre Damefools. But his statements do not is not being homosexual, again is also a tradition that allows me and Saint Mary's College. 
apply to himself. Kersten is a 
according to Webster, and if it is to feel a part of the Notre Dame­Yours in unity,brilliant man speaking the truth. 
in a person's nature to love a Saint Mary's heritage and Notre A concerned SMC studentAnd the students voted for him. 
person of the same sex, would it Dame-Saint Mary's is a part of
By the thousands. 
not be a sin to love otherwise'? me. And most of all, the Notre When Don Mooney, another Nowhere does Paul say a Dame-Saint Mary's tradition is fool, ran for office last year, the homosexual is condemned to one of flexible progression that is 
Those dirty ads

students rejected him in favor of · eternal death. ready to meet the demands of a 
If the author would like to get

Barkett. But this year there was changing world. 
technical, I point out anotherno Barkett. Only eight fools and 

Kersten. We have had a joke quotation. one which I'm sure Thirdly, I am committed to Editor: 
Saint Mary's. For within two
needs no reference. "And Jesus A few letters last weekcandidate every year. But this 
said, 'You must love God above years I will graduate and within although addressing themselve~year there was a choice between two years I am convinced that the 
all things. And the second if like to other matters, mentioned ina clown who spoke the truth and a the first. You must love one modern Christian woman will passing that the Observer is man who advocated flushing another as you love yourself." still receive a fine education at hardly representative of the level toilets to solve problems. What Now I ask, is this an adequate Saint Mary's. Precisely because I of thought or style of life of thecould the students do but vote for enough definition of a am committed to Saint Mary's, I lTniversity. I'm not sure whetherthe honest, reasonable can­homosexual within the terms of am vitally concerned about her or not this is so. It is obviousdidate'? 
<'hristianity'? future, her existence as an entity though, that there is one aspect of No, John Barkett will not For his own personal benefit, I separate from the University of the Observer which is by no "vanish in the haze," because he refer the author of that letter to Notre Dame. During the means representative of the 
does not seek affirmation. He Matthew 7:1-15. unification convocations of selfconsciously promoted image 
only wants to do what is right. A Header from across the Road Spring 1971 the statement was Notre Dame likes to project--that 
That is enough for him. The .Jackie Zale made that Saint Mary's had of a university where Christian 
Observer condemned the St. many alternatives open to her ethic is fostered. I refer, of 
Mary's nuns as incompetent but, above all, she could never course, to the pornographic 
hypocrites, and then criticized Merger regress; yet regress she has. And movie advertisements en­to my knowledge, there has never
Barkett for not insisting that the couraging readers of the Ob­
nuns be forced to help run our been progression through sc•n·e•· to patronize such high

termination 

regression. I am confident that expressions of art as "Snatchuniversity against their will. The Saint Mary's college will con­Shot."
Observe•· criticized Barkett for tinue as an institution separatenot making an issue out of Editor: from Notre Dame for severalparietals, when everyone knows I am neither a campus reac­I'm not sure what rationale the years. However, that Saintthat the university is interested tionary nor a rebel. Yet in all Observer can use to justify itsMary's College will be for thenot in enforcing parietals, but in good Christian conscience, I can encouragement of pornography,woman ready to accept merelygiving the outward appearance not allow the announcement of unless it is that a newspaper, like vocational skills, merely home­that they are being enforced. February 29, 1972, regarding the times themselves, should bemaking skills, merely a goodthe termination of unification
It is obvious that the real fools morally neutral--hardly a high
education. For at the "new"negotiations between the
this year were not the students, ideal. Perhaps your running the
Saint Mary's apart from NotreUniversity of Notre Dame and
Barkett, or Kersten, but the ads is only a reaction against
Dame, there will be no possibilitySaint Mary's College to pass by
editors of the Observer. .Jansenistic prudery, but those
of achieving the best.
without comment.

Sincerely yours, days have been gone for quite a John W. N. Hickey First of all, I am a modern while. and it's hardly prudish to 
woman in the · Therefore, I can only state my 
disavow, or at least refrain from 
pursuit of a challenging extreme disappointment in the 
advocating self-proclaimededucation. I am also an in­Sisters of the Holy Cross. For 
pornography. I'm not sure what telligent woman who sought Saint although they are seemingly your rationale is, but if you've got 
Mary's College as the vehicle by content with merely a "good" one. I'm sure several people"Gay and God" which that education might be. institution that will provide might be interested in hearing it. 
gained. Had I desired merely merely a "good" education, I am 
The question is obviously one of 

vocational skills, merely home­not. The modern Christian 
greater importance than that of
I would like to comment on the making skills, merely a good woman seeks only the best. In a
demeaning art. It is, rather,
letter from a fellow Christian, liberal arts education--! would conclusion, perhaps, these words question a question of pornentitled Gay and God. He in­not have come to Saint Mary's. of the poet Tennyson are ap­demeaning human dignity, and if dicated that a homosexual could Precisely because I sought the plicable: the Observer and this campus
' 

actually believe the phrase they love to brandish about, namely that humans should not be treated as objects, it follows that they should not promote what is a prime example of "objectifying," ridiculing and degrading the most intimate and sacred forms of human love and expression. 
. It's somewhat surprising--no, disappointing, rather--that no one has spoken out against these ads sooner. It is especially ironic that someone like Fr. Toohey, who purports to hold human love in such high regard, hasn't criticized these ads. <But then he's too busy solving the problems of the world. Those in his own back yard I'm sure are too trivial and unexciting for his attention. Besides, it's much safer to criticize Madison A venue--can't turn anyone off" that way.l 
In any case, spring is coming, 


so I think it may be time to start scrubbing up. 
\'ours for a clean environmen" .J.L. Wilk 

the observer Thursday, March 9, 1972 


Govt. secrecy restricted 
<(')1!172 Nt>w York Times 

Washington, March 8-­President Nixon signed an executive order today that is intended to limit the secrecy surrounding government documents, which are a major source of government in­formation. 
The President said in a statement that his action was "designed to life the veil of secrecy which now enshrouds altogether too many papers written by employees of the federal establishment--and to do so without jeopardizing any of our legitimate defense or foreign policy interests." 
The executive order, which will become effective on June 1, calls for reducing the number of documents classified "top secret," "secret," or "con­fidential" when they are written and for curbing the authority of officials to stamp such classifications on those papers. 
At the other end of the process, the order calls for speeding up the process of declassifying, or making available to the public, those documents with certain exemptions that the Ad­ministration pledged would be narrowly applied. 
The President and Ad­ministration spokesmen who explained the new order, however, readily conceded that the success of the program would depend largely on the discretion of officials. Nixon said that "rules can never be airtight and we must rely upon the good judgment of individuals throughout the government." 
The Executive Order is the outcome of a 14-month study ordered by the president and spurred by the publication of the Pentagon Papers last summer. Had the new order been in effect then. large portions of the documents in the Pentagon Papers would have been already declassified when they were published. 
Under the new order, "Top Secret" documents written before 1961 would have been automatically declassified--or would have been subject to a 
Fellini festival, concert head up new CAC season 
-.by Marlene Zloza 
Movies, lectures and music highlight the spring schedule of events offered by the Cultural Arts Commission. 
The Duke Ellington concert, which has not been cancelled, will take place April 6, 8:30 in Stepan Center. According to Bob Brinkman, CAC Commissioner. 

NO students can 
vote in Indiana 

Joseph Henderlong and Sheila Culligan, Deputy Election Registrars for St. Joseph County, revealed yesterday that Notre Dame and· St. Mary's students may register to vote in the May 2 Indiana Primary. 
Henderlong said that there are three requirements that must be filled before the student can vote; 
the student must have lived in the state for 6 months, Jived in the township for 60 days, and must be 18 years old. He clarified that this does include the ND-SMC out-of-state students who reside here during the school year. 
The registration in Indiana includes the right to vote in the November general election. But at the same time it requires cancellation of registration in the home state. 
The registrars explained that from 1 p.m. until 4 p.m. on Wednesday and Friday, the League of Women Voters will open tables in the Library for 
registration. Wednesday night McCulligan and Henderlong will be in the North Dining Hall for registration and Friday night they will register students in the SMC Dining Hall. 
Monday night, the booth they established in the South Dining Hall, garnered 12 registrants. Any of the students on the South Quad who were missed and wish to register whould contact llenderlong at 6893 or McCulligan at 4147. 
McCulligan also noted that they have available petitions for anyone wishing to be selected as a delegate to the Indiana State Convention. Any students in­terested should contact them. 

"We couldn't get out of the contract. The concert was never actually scratched." 
This month, in addition to the Collegiate Jazz Festival which begins tonight, Cinema '72 will present a Fellini Festival from March 13 to 17. Films to be shown next week are "I Vitelloni," "La Strada," "81/', "La Dolce Vita" and "Juliet of the Spirits." 
"Getting Straight," a Fund­Raising film, is planned for March 19 and 20 in the Engineering Auditorium. 
April activities include two more festivals, the Animation Film Festival and the Sophomore Literary Festival. 
A group of animated shorts will be shown April 13 and "Yellow Submarine" on April 14. Showings will be at 8 and 10 o'clock both evenings in the Engineering Auditorium. 
The biggest endeavor of the spring is the Sophomore Literary Festival, planned for the week of April 16 to 21. Events on Sunday through Thursday are scheduled at 3: 30 and 8: 30 in various lecture halls. 
Wygant Floral Co1 
Flowers for all occassions 
327 Lincoln Way 
West 232-3354 
The ROMA does it again! By popular demand PARTY FRIDAY MARCH 10, all the SCHLITZ you can handle (this time we ordered extra kegs to meet the demand). Rock music by OX PEDDLE. Pretzels, Pizza, and Pool Tables also available. All ND­SMC students are in­
vited. Admission: $2.00 (ND), $1.50 (SMC). Special for couples $3.50! 2nd floor at the ROMA, 219 N. Moc­jogam Ave., next to Morris Civic Auditorium. 8:30 -1:00. 
challenge in which the govern­ment would have to prove that injury to the national security would result from their publication. 
Similarly, many "Secret" papers dated before 1968 and "Confidential" documents dated earlier than 1965 would have been available. The Pentagon Papers included documents from 1945 to 1968. 
The new order means that large numbers of papers from the Truman and Eisenhower Ad­ministrations should become available. Plus those of the early Kennedy years. Documents concerning the Bay of Pigs operation in 1961, for instance, will be eligible for public in­spection unless the government can prove that such disclosure will harm the national interest. 
Later this year, documents pertaining to the Cuban Missile Cirsis would become eligible for inspection unless the government can prove that the national in­terest will be harmed. 
' 


"IT WAS A LOT OF CAR IN THE BEGiNNING AND IT'S A LOT MORE CAR TODAY."I MOTon mr:NDl 
Thnts a rave rt•view from a tough <'ritie: Motor 'lhmd. So when their t.edmiral Pdit{Jr said our THii I he!ow) is even more of a sport.scar than the classi<" TH2 (alx>Ve)-both winners in national and intornuti1mal eornpetitinn-we wanted you t{J know uhout it. 
But '~"ide from talking-uhout the TI-Uis heritage, they h;u!"a lot to say alxmt the car itself. "There is a feeling of almost uwesom<' solidity, as though the h~t'iic ear \Vcrc e:u·vcd out of a TH!i drivers anywhere: or by peoplesingl<' block of stt•ei:'ThuL solid feeling who huve simply driven in one. conms from tlw TRti's laul.low·built Even though we've lx-en imp•·ov­ehm;;sis with nigg'(··d 4·wheel indepen· · ing :md evolvinl!, the TH series fo•· ctenl.suspension. ItS a t'i:lr for precise twode<·udes, it wouldn't be thl' greatdriving-, cruftPd hy c.•nginc(~r-s who sportsear it is t<Jday, if it hadn't bt_.._•n r<lttlly und<•rstanrl sporL,cars. ).,'Teat t<J b<Jg-in with. 
And th" mugazino's deS<Tipt ion of it having "long-~leg-J{ed go..fort~ver THE CLASSICALLY BRITISH pcrformant•e" from its high torque 
TRIUMPH TR-6 ;Ejl
li-eylind<!r enJ.,>ill<' will he agreed by 
I,.••~ 


Avai1able F'or Immediate Delivery At • • • 

916 E. M~Kinley, Mishawaka Phone 25~-4751 

•vith CONTACT LENSES 
No hassle. Slip into the action with better vision without bother. Contact lenses help you see better, keep you looking great. Feel free to join the action with contact lenses ... You get better looking at 
Union. 
Phone 875-5183 


2201 N. Division, 
4107 S. Main St. 
Mishawaka 


Thursday, March 9, 1972 the observer 
leers eliminated from playoffs 

by Jim Donaldson Grahame from a tough angle on 
Sports Editor the left side. Bill Green started 
Twice overcoming one-goal the scoring play by carrying the deficits, the Denver Pioneers puck up ice and feeding center posted a 4-3 win over Notre Dame Pat Conroy, who passed to last night at the Denver u. Arena Campbell, and the Sault Ste. and advanced to the final round Marie, Ont., native lit the red of the Western Collegiate Hockey light.
Association playoffs. Both teams wasted power play
chances after Campbell's tally
Denver, the league's regular but Denver's Bob Krieger ex­season champion, outscored the ploded for a pair of goals within' Irish in the two-game, total goals 45 seconds midway thorugh the series by an 11-5 margin, period to put the Pioneers out in 
Notre Dame needed a six goal front. victory last night after losing 7-2 Krieger's scores came on on Tuesday but was unable to almost identical plays. Brian keep the talented Denver sextet Morenz set up both tallies,
in check. 
digging the puck out of the corner 
An outstanding job of and firing to Krieger, standing goaltending by Notre Dame's near the crease, who deftly put Mark Kronholm and a pair of the puck in the net. The soph goals by John Campbell made it a winger's first goal came at 13:29 lot tougher for Denver to win the and the second at 14:14. second game of the series but Notre Dame wasn't behind for third period goals by Pete McNab long, however. Noble and and Mike Lampman enabled the Williams successfully converted Pioneers to slip past the Irish. a two-on-one break at 17:06 to tie 
McNab's tally, which tied the the game again. Williams picked game 3-3, came at 6:29 while up an assist on the play, feeding Notre Dame's Ray DeLorenzi Noble, who put a shot over and John Noble were in the Grahame's shoulder, just under penalty box and Lampman netted the crossbar. 
Notre Dame's John Campbell, shown here against Mlehlgan, seored a the game-winner a little less than Neither club was able to break pair of goals in a losing effort last night as Denver nipped the Irish 4-3four minutes later. the deadlock in the second period, and eliminated them from the WCHA playoffs.
The Irish, making their first although both had a number of 
appearance  in  the  WCHA  scoring chances.  and,  after  one  Denver  skater  
playoffs, started off  as  if they  Denver put on heavy pressure  returned to the ice, Williams was  
might  wipe  out  the  five-goal  early in the period but Kronholm  sent  off  with  minor  and  
deficit  that  they  took  into  the  kept  the  Pioneers  at  bay and,  misconduct  penalties  and  the  
game, getting on the scoreboard  when two Denver players  were  teams were even.  
just  2:29  after  the  opening  whistled into the penalty box, the  The Pioneers had  a  two-man  
faceoff.  momentum swung to the Irish.  advantage  for  1:15  shortly  
Campbell  did  the  honors,  But Notre Dame failed to take  thereafter,  when  Jim  Cordes  
beating  Denver  goalie  Ron  advantage  of  the  opportunity  joined Williams in the sin bin, but  

Ryan racks up wrestling record 
by "Lefty" Ruschmann 

Four years after he arrived at Notre Dame as a math intent, busy Ken Ryan has helped pencil in new figures into the Irish record books. 
A decision in his final match over Marquette's Greg Gutowski gave Ken an even 50 career victories, a club record. In his tour of duty on the mats, Ken reached the finals of the Hochester Invitational and National Catholic Tournaments this year, and has made two trips to the NCAA regionals. This season, illness and some bad breaks have contributed to Ken's disappointing finish in the NCAA's and deprived the senior captain of a chance to end his career with a run at the title. 
By virtue of an NCAA rules 

change, which allowed freshmen to participate in varsity com­petition, Ken became the only four-year wrestler in Notre Dame history. He was on hand for the coaching change which brought Terry Mather to the helm, an event which Ryan credits as being the most important factor in making winners out of the Irish wrestlers. "He's everything you'd want a coach to be," Ryan explained, "Not only does he teach you the fundamentals, but he gives his self-confidence to others. That, I think, is the most important thing I've gotten out of the man." 
Like many Notre Dame 

wrestlers, football helped shape 
the 150-pounder's athletic career. 
Playing for a consolidated high 

school in the little town of 
Monona, Iowa, Ken went both 
ways, playing end and 
linebacker. "It built me up for 
wrestling," he observed. "You 
use the same muscles for both 
sports. For example, the down 
position on the line is the same as 
the drop step we use for 
takedowns." Kenny also stayed 
in shape the rest of the year, 
running in the 440 and 880 yard 
events for the track team. 
Math, however, and not sports, Kftl Ryan. ND's all-time win leader lured Ryan to Notre Dame. 


"Academically, this was the toughest school which accepted me, and I knew how good the math department was." Since then, Ken's love for applied math has caused him to switch to Chemical Engineering, with either a job in industry or graduate work in pollution control in store for him. The combined pressures of wrestling and classes has been a tough load for him; he admits that "it isn't that easy to do well in both." 
Finding out that he would not have to compete against scholarship athletes, Ken decided to give wrestling a try. He earned a place on the varsity under then coach Tom Fallon, and has wrestled regularly at or around the 150 pound weight class, where he feels the "large number of guys competing makes it one of the toughest classes of all." 
Four years' experience has eased Ken's nervousness, though he admits to mild cases of the butterflies before such key meets as the NCAA's. "What I have to do is psyche myself enough without getting nervous. Usually I'm able to do that" 
Prior to meets, Kenny spends several hours thinking of the coming match, "going over the moves I feel I can best use." He has worked out a routine for preparing for his bout once the meet gets underway. "I usually watch the first couple of matches and try to figure out just what I'll have to handle. During the third match, I'll get up and go into my warm ups. After that, I try not to pay attention to the next one." 
While Ryan has been working out with several sparring part­ners in practices, he refuses to speculate on whom his successor might be. "If nothing else, the freshmen-eligible rule makes such a prediction impossible." 
Meanwhile, having gone into 
what he calls "my retirement," 
Ken is returning to the more 
relaxed world of merely being a 
full-time student. 
Sellers of over 1 5 million records 
March 18 
8:00 pm Stepan Center 
$3.50 
on sale tonight 

they were unable to score, thanks to the efforts of Kronholm and defenseman Mark Steinborn, who did a fine job of penalty killing. 
Tern pers flared around the 14­minute mark of the period when Campbell was tripped by Den­ver's Mike Busniuk and, after an ensuing scuffle, both were banished to the penalty box. Irish coach Lefty Smith argued a bit too vociferously against the call on Campbell and Notre Dame was tagged with a bench penalt:iL giving Denver a four to three manpower edge. Once again, however, the Pioneers' scoring attempts were thwarted. 
Each team made a late scoring bid in the period, but Kronholm stopped Rob Palmer, breaking in alone with 3: 13 remaining and Grahame fell on Conroy's backhander from in close while Denver was shorthanded in the final minute. 
The Irish didn't waste much time in breaking the scoring drought once the third period got underway. Campbell recorded • his second goal of the night on a three-on-two break 3:17 into the session, with assists going to Conroy and DeLorenzi. 
But Denver once again battled back. McNab rammed home a rebound for the tying goal and Lampman blasted in the game­winner. Kronholm got a piece of Lampman's shot but the puck bounced off his chest as he fell and went into the net. 
The Irish concluded their first WCHA campaign with a 10-18 league record and posted a 14-20 mark overall. 
In other playoff games, second .. place Wisconsin moved past Michigan Tech 6-1, after losing 5­3 on Tuesday. North Dakota blitzed Michigan for the second straight night, coasting to a 10-1 win, and Michigan State com­pleted its sweep of Minnesota­Duluth, besting the Bulldogs, 4-2. 
This weekend, Denver will host the Spartans and North Dakota will visit Wisconsin for two­game, total goals series and the two surviving teams will un­doubtedly represent the West in the NCAA tournament next weekend in Boston Garden. 
''LONG HAIR'' 
Strictly Caranaby St. The British Shag is The new limey shag here. If you have long (LONG HAIR) is the hair Continental's bloody sensation, as Artists can trim it for a desired, for the young bloody true Shag, as HARE SET with kitties·. desired, with or without only. kitties. 
Healthy hair is our business. 
HAIR STYUNG, LTD. A
. 
SEHVlN(; nn: N.D. COMMUNITY FOR OVER 4 YEARS 
("all :!59-7679 for APPOINTMENT 
l:t!l E. 1\lcKinley Ave., Mish. <next door to Normain Pharmacy) tSpl•cial Student Hates Every Day) 

the observer Thursday, March 9, 1972 
Regional Clubs renewed 
by Bob Consentino 

When Ray Connell ,::arne to Notre Dame four years ago, he knew of only eight other students here from around his hometown near Kansas City. Through his involvement with the Kansas City Club of Notre Dame, however, Ray met 70 students who lived near him back home. 
Connell, a senior in St. Eds, now heads the student group trying to revitalize interest in the geographic clubs at Notre Dame. 
Michael Jordan of the Alumni relations board termed the current geographic clubs at ND "obsolete" as far as what they are doing for students. Clubs now provide transportation for students to their home towns. They occassionally hold banquets for its members. 
"Many students have cars now," said Jordan. "And there really isn't much interest for banquets and parties, since the students can get that same kind of social outlet in their halls." 
Consequently, the student clubs were "dead," he said. No one wanted to turn them around. Recently, though, two com­mittees of 17 members were formed to revive the clubs and also to develop effective programs for them. 

One of the new functions of the geographic clubs is to improve cooperation between students and alumni of NO back home. Alumni groups are very active with 120 clubs throughout the country, There are 14 student clubs on campus. Jordan said the role of the geographic clubs should be changed to working more with the alumni in home areas rather than on campus. 
"The students could help 

Jordan: students can get sum­mer jobs through influential alumnus. 
Marbles tourney slated for March 18 
Jim Schneid, Chairman of the Student Union Services Com­mission, has announced the beginning of a Notre Dame Marbles Tournament. Scheid said, "We're doing it for the hell of it." 
Though the schedule is not yet complete, the tentative date for the tournament is March 18. All those interested in participating should sign up with the Services Commission by March 14. 
Schneid stated that the future of the tourney will depend on the 


Jim Schneid: "We're doing it for 
support shown in the sign-ups. 

the hell of it. It might be fun." 
The $1.00 entry fee that is being asked will be used for prize money with 40 per cent going to the winner, 30 per cent to the runner-up, 20 per cent to the third place finisher, and 10 per cent to 

10% OFF
fourth place. The tentative plans call for the 

On any mechanical event to go roughly from 12 to 6 in 
work and winterizing. the Fieldhouse. Scheid hoped to 
For students and 
contract a band to also play 

University Personnel 
during the afternoon. 
Roseland Gulf
The idea grew out of a tour­

402 U.S. 31 North
nament that was held in the 1800's and then discontinued. "It might ' 
cross frQmBurg~r
be fun." Schneid said. .___
___________.....,. 
GRADUATE 
STUDENTS 
The GRADUATE STUDENT UNION announces that NOMINATIONS for President Vice President Secretary • Treasurer 
are NOW being accepted 
NOMINATIONS close MARCH 17. INTERESTED STUDENTS should contact the GSU office on the 4th Floor Ad. Bldg. or call 87 52 
compliment the alumni in recruiting high school students to Notre Dame," suggested Jordan. 
Also, through working closely with the alumni, Jordan pointed out that students can often benefit from an influential alumnus in getting summer jobs. 
Finally, the .new geographic clubs will become more active in community service and social action programs. "The Alumni club could serve as a clearing hous," said Jordan, between community organizations and interested students. 
"The students at Notre Dame are academically orientated," remarked Connell. "We want to expand the student's social outlets beyond his section or hall through the ,active participation in ~eographic clubs." 
Mock Convention 
News 
Co-chairmen of the George Wallace for President Campaign, Arthur E. Quinn and Michael H. Aldi, announced yesterday that all students who are planning to support the Alabama governor at this year's Democratic Mock Convention, April 24-26, should sign up as delegates from any of the following states: Alabama, Tennessee, Mississippi, Georgia, Florida, West Virginia, and North Carolina. 
There will be an organizational meeting in April to set the final plans and strategy before the convention begins. In the meantime, if any delegates have questions they are asked to call 1502. 
Quinn and Aldi also announced that Governor Wallace will be on ABC's political talk program, lssul's and Answers, this Sunday, March 12 at 1:30 pm. All are urged to watch the show as, Wallace will talk of his platform and answer questions on the issues of busing, law and order, and US foreign policy. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Blue cotton N D Band 
jacket. Laundry tag on label. 
JFB 1927. Reward. 
-· ----·-----·-------­
Lost: Grey frame glasses. Call 
Jim 1535. 
Found: $near Notre Dame circle. :dentify date and amount of loss. 3193 after 11. 
.. -------------------­
Lost: Gold watch with twistoflex band. Reward offered. Call Tom 6727. ------·----------­Found: a small silver ring in tunnel at SMC. Call 4285. 
Lost (Stolen) . wallet. $7, personal ID's. Valuable to me 'only. No ·Questions. Call RICH 8147,.-, ..-.----·-----------­PERSONALS 
Let's swing together this weekend at the Collegiate Jazz Festival. Are you man enough? See you there. 
Love, Roberta 
"PREPPIE" Call or I will resign my com­mission! 
"HOT LIPS" 
Pert SMiCk chick looking for cuddly jazz freak. Will you be there when I need you? If you are, I 'II see you at the Jazz Festival this weekend. Don't want to swing alone. I've been hearing a dif· ferent drum too long, 
Suzy 
A friend, Do I know you? One from the single building. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
* * * 
*SPECIAL NOTICE 

1. 
I do apoligiseto anyone that the classified ad column has offended recently by an ad that shall remain nameless. More over: The entire Observer Advertising Machine begs forgiveness. 

2. 
ALSO. From now on each ad in the classified ad section will be heavily scrutinized as to its moral connotations by one of America's most sterling citizens. Me. We will not print any ad which promotes unethical research procedures or unethical term papers. We also will not print any ad with OVERT SEXUAL CONNOTATIONS. We can't even use dirty words or dirivatives thereof. 


Courage, Robbins, Classified Ad. Mgr. 
NOTICES 

Recycle your books with Pandpra. South Bend-Notre Dame Avenues. 
Charity Bake Sale. Huddle, Sat., March 11. 9:00-4:00. 
---·-----------­Parts and Accessories for Im­ported Cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland J 272-7187. 
DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and Within Europe. Leave anytime from NY Chicago. Flight Center 227 North Randall. Madison, WI 53705. (608) 263-3131. 
CHIMES accepting poetry, fie· lion, essays, graphics. Submit to 
D. Kerr 533 McCandless, R. Campell 813 Grace, T. Knoles-P. Smith 334 Dillon. 
$Typing Anytime--Reasonable Prices. CHIP (8256) or MIKE (6963). 
NASSAU TRIP MARCH 24-31. 8 days and 7 nights with quad ac­com. Air fare and Hotel may be purchased separately. Limited number of seats available. Tickets on Sale at Student Union 
Ticket office. $202 inclusive. 
Questions, Call: 7757. 
-·· -------------------­

Students interested in forming a fundamental protestant. student· run Bible study and prayer group on campus. Call Steve 7986. 
ATTENTION: Soph. Arkies COLLECTING CANS (pop) tor project and recycling BASEMENT ARKIE BUILDINGS 
If you're interested in flying to Denver for spring break, call Pete at 6743 or 6730, or Dan at 6987. 
Student Union Buses to O'Hare. March 22 N D to O'Hare 1:30pm. April 4 O'Hare to ND 8 pm. Tickets on sale at the 1st Bank Campus travel office $5 one-way. All Sales Final. 
Anyone interested in a Spring Break flight to Denver on March 22? Please call PETE 6743-6730 or DAN 6987-6907. 
CLEVELAND CLUB 

EASTER BUS SIGN UPS--LaFortune (Coke Bar) 6 6:30pm Thursday 
6 
6:30 pm Friday 

2 
3: oo pm Saturday 



FLORIDA!! Roundtrip $45. Call 283-6339 between 4-7 pm. Ask for ROB. 
-·----·--------------­Anyone interested in a Spring Break Flight to Denver on March 
22? Please call PETE 6743-6730or DAN 6987 6907. 
JUNIORS! Today is the last day to make arrangements for your Senior Portrait for the '73 Dome. Please phone 1454 or drop by 
Room2-CLaFortune. 96. Tobe in the yearbook you must be photographed now. 
CORRECTED NOTICE 

NO PLANS for Easter vacation? Spend the first week of Spring Break in Hampton County, South Carolina, tutoring elementary and high school students. For further information, call 4501 or 234-5889 
(PAUL). 12:00 ·1:00am. 
WANTED 
Need ride to Muncie, Ind. Friday March 10. Call CATHIE 4904. 
Need ride to Florida for Spring Break. Call MARY ANN 4552. 
Need ride to Rockford, Illinois for break. Call IRENE -4148. 
Two girls need ride to New York area or D.C. for break. Call 5776. 
Need ride to Florida. Can leave Tuesday (3-21). Call 1441. 
Need ride to N.Y.C. Friday af. ternoon. Call Kevin 289-7433 or Pete 232-2103. 
Need ride to University of Illinois March 10. MARTY 4944. 
Wanted: 3 roommates for 4­bedroom house off-campus. $62.50 mo. Call DEN NY · 234-4259. 
Need ride to Providence R I vicinity. Spring Break. MICHEAL 233-4435. 
POETRY WANTED for An­thology. Include stamped en velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angles, California 90021. 
Scalpers! Wanted: 1 ticket for Vienna Symphony Orchestra. Will pay through the nose!!! Call KEN 8761. 427 Stanford. 
Spring break Need ride to Florida. Call 8471, 8549, 8075. 
Need ride for two girls to Florida at Spring Break. Call 5716. 
PLEASE! -· -----------------­
Need ride for 2 to St. Louis and back for this weekend. We'll pay for qas. Call 1010 or 8981. 
Ride wanted to MSU Friday. Call DAN 8427. 
Girls desperately need ride to Ft. Lauderdale area. Call Debbie 4418 or Patsy 5786. 
Spring break Need ride to Baltimore, MD Call Rick 6810. 
Need ride for 2 to Cincinatti Friday. Call 1650. 
TWO GUYS NEED RIDE TO SOUTH SIDE CHICAGO FRI AFTERNOON. CALL LARRY 8276 or RICK 8257. 
FOR SALE 
Stuffed chairs super cheap; Mandol in Excellent condition; Cot; 1966 Sunbeam low price. Call 259-0482. 
Engagement Rings, Watches Tremendous Savings, Complete line. Call Tom 3575. 
Michelin X Tires 165-380-15 with tubes. For all VW Bugs; most 15" sports and imports. Less than 2,000 miles. $80 for 3 tires or best offer. 255-6726. 
1967 Dodge Dart, 2 door, 6­cylinder, automatic, radio, snow tires, new battery, turquoise, excellent condition. Call John 283­6720. 
12" TV only 5. mo. old. $95; 1020. 
'69 Opel Sta. Wagon. Good con­dition. $1095. 8940 or 5392. 
Stereo Speakers Exciting New Sound Unbeatable Buys. Call 283-8462. 
For Sale: '65 Comet. $225. 287· 4940. 
1963 Chevelle. Reliable. 2156 or Box 216 Lewis Hall. MARY. 
For Sale · Reliable P.A. system; full range and good volume; microphones separate in· formation, JOHN 7802. 
Words 1da 2da 3da 4da 5da 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 l.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 




