
/ 
On The Inside . 
Civil Rights Commission loses Hesburgh ... page 3 
Evangelism and youth: a wrapup ... page 10 



serving the notre dome -st. mary's community Friday, November 17, 1972 ~ 
Vol. VII No. 51 



j 
j 
I j j 
l 
j 
I l J 
J 
J 



111111

~ ..t~h•e..•o•n•s•e•r•v•e..r......~F~ri~da•y•.~N~o·v•em~be•r·1~7·.~19~72~..................~--------------~--------------------------------------~ 
'\ 
P&lris-The North Vietnamese delegation to the Paris peace talks announced that Le Due Tho, Hanoi's chief negotiator, would arrive for a further round of private talks with Henry Kissinger. That was the only clear signal to come out of the 167th session of the formal, four­~ided talks as each side met ambiguity with ambiguity. But outside the session. the North Vietnamese spokesman was unequivocal in ruling


warld 
out any participation by a Saigon delegate in the secret talks. 
Baton Hougt>. l.a.-Two black men were killed and one was wounded during a day of violence at the campus of South University in Baton Houge. La., where students set fire to two buildings and exploded a bomb in a third. Gov. Edwin W. Edwards immediately closed the

briefs 
school. ordered resident state student to go home and said the school would remain closed at least through Thanksgivikng. 
Washington-Members of the civil rights commission have agreed ~o submit their resignations so President Nixon can have a free hand at the start of his second term. It was an apparent reversal of a policy ~h<' agency has followed since 1964 when members refused to grant Prt>sident Johnson's request their resignations on the grounds it would .i('Opardize the Commission's independence. 

((') I!H2 New York Times 
r\t•w York-Pt>psi-Cola will become the first American consumer product manufactured and sold in the Soviet Union. Pepsico, Inc., announced an agreement with the Soveiet Ministry of trade to begin marketing the soft drink in the Soviet Union next year. 

an campus taday 
friday 
7:30 p.m. --movie, butch cassidy and the sundance kid, engineering 
aduitorium 8:15p.m. --concert, josephino cuberino, soprano, library auditorium 8:30p.m.--play, summer and smoke, washington hall 
8:30 p.m. --movie, camelot, o'laughlin auditorium, smc 
9:00p.m.--poetry reading, terry davis and rich zollo, stapleton lounge saturday 

1:30 p.m.--football game, notre dame vs. miami, notre dame stadium 8:30p.m.--play, summer and smoke, washington hall 
8:30 p.m. --concert, yes, ace sunday 
1:00-3:30 p.m. --tryouts, for one-act french club play, regina hall auditorium 
7:30 p.m. --meeting, women's caucus, library lounge monday 6 & 10 p.m. --movie, ann of the thousand days, engineering 
auditorium, 25cents 8:00p.m.--basketball, charity game, ace, 50 cents or a can of food 
8:00 p.m. --lecture, dr. erik von kuenhelt, the church in an age of confusion, library auditorium 
8:15p.m.--concert, notre dame qlee club, washington hall tuesday 
10:30 p.m.--worship service, celebration, sacred heart church 




Campus Happenings••. 
prepan•d a program of religious, Broadway and campus songs that han• h('('n \\·PH-received in other !ours to W<'stern and southern 
Th<'sP include ''Death. l Do Not l•'t•ar Th<'e." "When Children l'rav," "Th<' Shadow of Your Sm i·l<·." "A'"<' Maria," "The 1\linstr<'l Boy," "A Dirge for Two \'t•t<•rans" and the traditional "Notr<' Dam<' Victory March." Songs of Latin America, Ireland <~nd rural Am<'rica will be featured in th<' program. 
\\'t'dnPsdav  November  29  with  
~  iek<'ts  g'oing  to  Howard  and  
Kt'<'n<m halls.  

l<'ortv m<'mbers of the club will i<'<H'<' 'Tu<'sday for a concert in 1\lagnificat HighSchool, Rocky Hi\'<'r. Ohio. Other stops on thee ~our will br in Hrrkimer, N.Y.; N<•w York City; New Rochelle, N.Y.; Paramus. N.J., and Uochester. N.Y. 
Th<' ·'Singing Irish" were originally organized in 1915 for the purpose of<'ntt>rtaining at informal ('ampus <'Vt>nts. In recent years th<'Y ha\'<' performed in every area of th<' llnit<'d States, on national t<•l<•vi~ion and radio shows. and in f<:urop<'. 
'Church' lecture 
Dr. Erik von Kuehnelt-Leddihn will speak on "The Church in an AgP of Confusion." Monday, Novembt>r 20. 
Dr. Kuehnelt-Leddihn was born in Austria and received his 
Thc Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­ccpt vacations by the students of thc l'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchesed for sa per semester ( 14 per year) from the Observer, t ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Coex postponed 
No eo<'X dinner tickets will be ;n·ailablP for Monday and Tuesday Non•mb<•r 27 and 28. Jim Clarke, dir<'<.'tor of the program announced lodav. 
Th<' program will resume on 
Tiek<'ts for the remainder of that \H'<'k will h<' assigned as follows: Thursdav-Stanford. Dillon: l<'ridav-Aii•mni. Zahm; Saturdav­1.\'ons. Grace; and Sundav· I•:mgborn. "F'lanner. · 
Ti('kc.'ts will continue to be assign<'d to two halls a day until lk'cember :.!0. 

'Action' deadline 
Th<' cit'adline to apply for Action, :he .ioint volunteer organization including VISTA and the Peace Corps. is Tuesday. November 21 l'or programs beginning in .Januarv. 
Th(' rlPadline for articles that h<'gin in March 1973 is November :~o. All majors are needed. Fur­th<•r information is available fro.m lkrnic(' Roy. campus represen­:ative at room 223 Administration huilding OH38L 

Pre-tour concert 
Th<' Glee Club of the University of Notr<' Dame will be presente<i in conc<'rt at 8:15p.m. Monday <No,v. :!0) in Washington Hall before !Paving for a Thanksgiving tour of t•astern stat<'s. The program of past and pn~sent favorites will be open to the public without charge. 
Directed by Daniel H. Pedtke, .associate proi·essor of music, since 19:l8. th(' 80-m('mber glee club has 

CELEBRATION 
-A Creative Worship Service ­
A Thanksgiving Liturgy on the Eve of the Ninth Anniversary of President Kennedy's Assassination-to Commemorate All modern Day Martyrs· 
November 21 
TUESDAY 10:30 SACRED HEART CHURCH 
Pducation in Europe. He has :aught both in the United States 
•md Europe. Since 1947, he has d<•vot<•d himself to writing, ~rm·<'ling. and further studies. Fhwnt in <'ight languages, Dr. Ku<•hn<'lt -L<'ddihn has reading abilitv in st>venteen. 
Sonw of the books he has publisht•d are Tht> Menace of the lla•ni and LibN·ty oa· Equality? SSom<' novels he has written are ( ;atc•s of llt•ll. N~ght Ovt>r tht> East, and Hlat·k Bannt>rs. He has \\Titt<'n for the Catholic World. ('ommonwt•al. Tht> New Sdaohastil'ism and presently is a r<'gular contributor to National Ht·\·h•w. 
Dr. Ku<>hnelt-Leddihn speaks wilh Catholic interests in pr('s(•nting a comprehensive view nf th<' humanities. His studies in political theory have been largely dir<•ct<•d toward finding ways to str<'ngth<'n tht> great Western lradit ion of human freedom. 
Dr. Ku<'hndt-L('ddihn describes his main activities as striving for a lwt t<'r understanding between English-speaking nations and the t<:urop<•an Continent. 




EXCLUSIVE! 
When you use your Gilbert Campus Shop account you never pay any service or carrying charges. True. 

Debaters popular 
Notre Dame debaters Tony Pandolfo and Thomas Matthews l'onsistenly captured the audience ballots at the 16th annual "Debate Da vs in Detroit" tournament hos't('d by Wayne State Universiw. 
Ballots which were distributed to determinE> the "Switch ' of pr<•fer('nce" by the audience after <'ach d<'bate favored the. N.D. ~<'am. Pandolfo and Matthews compet('d against the University of \'(•rmont before a Garden City lligh ~mdience; Loyola University at J<:ast D<'troit High-University of Illinois at Wayne State University; 
Bradl<'y  University  at  Grosse  
Point  North  High;  and  Central  
Michigan  University  at  the  
Wyandotte Rotary Club.  

Seventeen colleges and univ<'rsiti<'s from across the nation participated in these demon­stration debates presented before fiO schools. social and civic urganizations throughout nwlropolitan Dt>troit Nov. 12, 13, 
14. 
NEED WHEELS? 



REDT·A·EAR 

Charter Rental·s 
Mr. H. Honda 50715 U.S. 31 N. 272-4484 , Marv Borr Toyota 18185 St. Rd. 23 272-8080 2418 S. Michigan 287-1S6Q 

AS LOW AS 
$5.95 
We rent to 21 year olds. First tank of gas free! 

r 
I I 
-I ; 1 -I , t 

Friday, November 17, 1972 Page 3 
Indiana may keep presentdrinking age 
by Patti Shea 
Staff Reporter 

Construction plans for an on­campus bar at Notre Dame in­cluded in several LaFortune renovation proposals will be discarded unless the 1973 Indiana General Assembly votes to lower the legal drinking age. 
Changes in 450 sections of state law involving age with the ex­ception of the drinking age will b~ recommended to the legislature m early January by the A~ of Majority Task Force, according to Arden R. Chilcote, Indiana legislative council director of research. 
Stressing the 1972 legislature's failure to override the Governor's veto of the lower drinking <ij!e last spring, the Task Force has failed to include a change in the legal age for the purchase and consumption of alcoholic beverages in its recommendations. "I personally doubt the Indiana General Assembly is likely to change the laws in this respect," Chilcote stated in reply to a letter inquiring in to legal aspects of building a bar on the Notre Dame campus, by Student Government Director of Research, and Development Jim Clarke. 
Preliminary designs 
Several preliminary designs for LaFortune student center renovation include a student bar according to Clarke. "The con­struction of an on-campus bar is important to the University," he commented. "Students wouldn't have to travel to Michigan and the drinking and driving danger would be eliminated." 
Citing the lowered federal voting age of eighteen, Dr. Robert Ackerman, director of student activities, favored the lowering of Indiana's legal drinking age and the construction of a bar on the Notre Dame campus, "Provided we could do some creative things with the changed law like an education program for students on the use of alcohol." 
Pointing out that other universities with student bars find "they are an interesting en­terprise," Ackerman noted, "Here the school is able to control what happends in the bar and par­ticipate in the total education of the college student." 
No sneaking 

Urging that students work to put the proposal of lowering the age of majority for drinking before the legislature, Ackerman stated, "If the legal age were lowered and an on-campus bar established, students wouldn't feel the need to have to sneak around or drive up to Niles to drink!' 
In addition to passage of a state law, Notre Dame as a private institution would have to approve changes in present drinking policies on campus according to Fr. Riehle, dean of students before a student bar could be built. 
No action yet 

"Although the University prohibits drinking in the stadium, for instance, which is not agair1st state law," Riehle pointed out, ·in the case of lowering the age of majority, the University would go along with state law." 
So far, no formal action by the University or students has been taken to press for the lowered age of majority since last year's 
student government attempt to 
join other Indiana universities in 
:support of the change. 
"Everyone just assumed that the 
law would be changed," Clarke 
(>xplained. The bill was vetoed by 
the Governor and the legislature 
did not override the veto. 
"More push" 
Stressing that the change, which 
would be an important 
requirem(>nt for an on-campus bar, 
could not be passed without 
pressure, Clarke urged, 
"Students have to start putting 
some push into their efforts." 
Ackerman suggested that Notre 
Dame student government join 
with other universities including 
Indiana and Purdue which are 
working for the lowered age of 
majority. "By making public 
statements and uniting with other 
universities in the state, stude}lts 
could produce an effective lobby 
('ffort to lower the drinking age in 
Indiana," he contended. 
Listing neighboring states 
Michigan, Ohio, and Kentucky 
which have lowered their legal 
drinking age requirement, 
Ackerman said, "There is no 
reason why the change should not 
be made .Indiana has remained an 
island of virtue in a cultural 
vacuum for too long." 
Acad Council 
gives nod to 

officer changes 
The Academic Council Thursday gave initial approval to the article covering the academic officers of the University in the Faculty Manual revision recommended by its steering committee. 
Major changes included in­corporation of the new offices of provost and vice president for advanced studies; addition of the concurrence of the elected members of the Academic Council in the appointment of the provost; addition of students to search committees for the provost, the deans of undergraduate colleges and the Freshman Year, and the vice president for advanced studies; establishment of formal review for major University of­ficers. and enlargement of formal consultative procedures in the appointment of department chairmen to include all depart­ment faculty rather than only senior members as before. 
During discussion, the Council rejected by a voice vote a motion to substitute the Faculty Senate for the Academic Council as the body which provided for the faculty and student members making up the search committee for the provost. 
In its discussion of the revised Faculty Manual article on the faculty, the Council voted to keep the four current categories of faculty--teaching-and-research, special research, library and special professional-and added a fifth, non-regular faculty, which includes visiting, adjunct, part­time, guest and retired emeritus faculty. 
At its next meeting, the Council will resume discussion on the section of the Faculty Manual r(>vision dealing with academic freedom. 
Hesburgh resigns froiD Civil Rights Co~n~nission Chair 
by John Abowd 
Editor-in-chief 

University President Fr.Theodore M. Hesburgh 
tendered his resignation yesterday as the 
Chairman of the Civil Rights Commission. The 
letter of resignation came at the request of 
President Richard Nixon. 
The letter, mailed yesterday, came as the result 
of a request last Monday from Fredrick Malek, a 
member of Nixon's administrative staff. In the 
one sentence resignation Hesburgh said, "In 
compliance with your request transmitted by Mr. 
Frederick Malek of the White House Staff I hereby 
submit my resignation as chairman and member 
of the United States Civil Rights ommission. Best 
regards. Sincerely yours, theodore M. Hesburgh, 
C.S.C." 
All six members of the commission were asked 
to resign as a part of Nixon's 2,000 man shake-up of 
White House personnel. 
Acceptance likely 

Nixon has made no formal reply to Hesburgh's 
resignation but White House Press Secretary 
Ronald Ziegler said yesterday that the ad­
ministration believed Hesburgh wanted to resign 
rather than continue to serve under Nixon. 
Notre Dame's 21 year president denied saying 
that he intended to resign if Nixon was reelected. 
The widely reported story which broke before the 
election said that Hesburgh "Offered to resign the 
chairmanship <of the Civil Rights Commission) in 
the event of a landslide reelection of the 
President." (The Observer, October ~) 
Hesburgh sent a telegram to Ziegler yesterday 
clarifying the administrative story on his 
resignation. 
The telegram said: "Despite recent 
irresponsible news articles to the contrary I did 
not, repeat not, say that I would resign if President 
Nixon were reelected. When asked to comment 
about this story at the time, I simply denied it. 
What I did say was that if I were asked to resign by 
the reelected President, as is his privilege, I 
would. He did ask, and I did resign. After 15 years 
of service on the Civil Rights Commission, I should 
appreciate having the record honestly stated." 
Hesburgh, who was appointed to the commission 
in 1957 by President Dwight Eisenhower and 
appointed chairman in 1969 by Nixon, indicated 
that he expected a formal reply today. 
Reversal of precedent 

In 1964 the Civil Rights Commission refused to 
resign when Presidetnt Lyndon Johnson requested 
resignations as a part of his blanket ad­
ministrative shake-up. 
The commission claimed in 1964 that it was an 
independent agency and not a part of the White 
House staff. 
Hesburgh called the President's right to include 
Civil Rights Commissioners in his blanket 
resignation request a "a good legal question" but 
continued saying that "Nixon has the perogative 
to chairman." 
Hesburgh noted that tendering his resignation 
"was not important, but what President Nixon 
does about it is." 
Past record 

In his four years as chairman the Civil Rights Commission, and Hesburgh in particular, has been highly critical of Nixon's policies on civil rights. 
The two major areas of disagreement have been busing of school children to promote racial in­tegration and the role of federal agencies in promoting civil rights. 
On the busing issue Hesburgh has supported the one way busing of children from inferior schools to schools of higher quality. His most recent defense of this position came in an October 29 article in the New York Times in which he said, "If the only way to get students from bad schools is to bus them, then bus them. Keep in mind the standards established by the Supreme Court-not to bus in a way that will harm the child's health or his education." 
The Nixon administration has supported the constitutional amendment which would prohibit busing to promote racial integration. 
In the last year and a half the commission has issued two reports chastising federal agencies for 

Hesburgh: Resigns from the Civil Rights 
Commission "in compliance" with 
President Nixon's request. 
their poor performance in the area of civil rights. 
Among the agencies criticized is the Federal 
Housing Administration which the commission 
accused of promoting the white flight to the 
suburbs by supporting racially discriminatory 
housing codes and mortage policies. 
Other members 

The other five members of the Civil Rights 
Commission have also agreed to tender their 
resignations according to the New York Times. 
The commission consists of three Republicans, 
two Democrates and an independent (Hesburgh>. 
The Republicans are Dr. Stephen Horn, Vice 
Chairman and President of the University of 
California at Long Beach; Maurice Mitchell, 
Chancellor of the University of Denver and 
Manuel Ruiz a Los Anglelos lawyer. 
The Democrats are Mrs. Francis Freeman, St. 
Louis lawyer and Dr. Robert Rankin, professor of 
political science at Duke University. 
Late bulletin 
Nixon accepts 

Hesburgh resignation 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

Washington, Nov. 16-The White House said 
tonight that Father Theodore Hesburgh had 
resigned as chairman of the United States Com­
mission on Civil Rights and that President Nixon 
would accept the resignation. 
Gerald L. Warren, assistant White House pres!!' secretary, said the White House staff had requested the resignation. But he said the request was made because Hesburgh had said during the presidential campaign that he would resign if President Nixon were re-elected. 
llesburgh's resignation stemmed largely fr011 a disagreement between him and the President on the issue of school busing. Diring the campaign llf'sburgh described busing as "the most phony issue in the country." 
On Oct. 28, he was also quoted as saying that he could "not survive if the President is re-elected-­Pither by his wishes or my own." 
In South Bend, Ind., where Hesburgh is President of the University of Notre Dame, he said that he was drafting his formal resignation tonight, but it was understood that he had already acknowledged to White House staff members that he would step down. 
Meanwhile, there was disagreement over whf'ther resignations of other commission members had bf'en rf'quested by the White House. Several commission staff members admit the resignations had bf't•n requested. 
j i I J I I 
I j j j 
l l 
~ 
j 
l 



tria BBYGrveP r-naay, November 17, 1972
4 
SMC officials hail new co-ex rules; But fail to confirm renormalization 

by David Rust Starr Reporter 
St _ Mary's College president Edward Henry and vice president
r 
? for academic affairs William Hickey declined last night to herald the letter published in yesterday's Observer concernin~ ('o-ex programs as the complete "H'normalization" of relations betwPen Notre Dame and Saint 
..) Marv's_ "l;d say this is a step," said Hickev member of the ifve-man task t~o~ce that put together the rH'w policy over the past few months. "I'd say it was a step in the right direction. But right now it's hard to say" whether or not lhis will have a positive effect on 1he normaliztion of relations betwPen the two schools. "1 think it's a careful probing for wavs that Notre Dame and Saint Ma.ry's can cooperate, each in its own self-interest," added president Henry. "I don't want to rna ke any _ predictions, though. I don't want to arouse any false I'XPt'ctations among our students." 
Dr. Hickey also reported that the guidelines referred to in yester­ctav's letter that were to be 
,. 
t•st'ablished by each school in­cti\'iduallv for distribution of each's gi\'en :~.o·oo credit hours, have for ! he most part been worked out by Saint Marv's. _ 
SMC department chairmen 

Sen. Hart to keynote Civil Rights lectures 
Sen. Philip A. Hart of Michigan will be the speaker at the H.'corut annual Civil Rights Lecture St'ries sponsored by the University of Notre Dame Law School April 5 and 6, 1973. The well-known Democreat, who is a m<'mber of the Senate Judiciary Committee, will con­c<'ntrat<'. on the legislative con­tributions and prospects for the ei\'il rights movement, following the historical perspective offered bv the serils' first lecturer, Earl v~·,,rren, retired chief justice of the llnited States, who spoke last April. Jurists and other area r<'presentatives in the Senate and ( 'ongress will be asked to join Rev. 
Th<•odore  M. Hesburgh,  C.S.C.,  
pn•sident  of  Notre  Dame  and  
longtime  chairman  of  the  U.S.  

Ci\·il Hights Commission, in presiding at the three major lee­
! llr<'S. 
Sat. & Sun. 3:00 5:20 7:30 9:50 r Mon. • Fri. 2:00 4:25 6:55 9:25 
NOW! 
Open 8:30 a.m. 
last Feature 
10:20 p.m. 

The Syndicata 
The waylhay lived­
The way they diad. 
•PaJErs" 
\.
•'-' 
.\ 
' 
\­
{ -. 
A member of the Senate since 1958, Hart has played an active role in the civil rights legislation pr<'sented to his committee for action. H<' is a 1934 graduate of G('orgetown University and a 1937 graduate of the University of Michigan Law School. 
Hart has served as Michigan <"orporations and securities eommissioner, as U.S. attorney for :he Pastern district of Michigan, as liPutmant governor of the state for four yPars. and as legal advisor to formPr governor G. Mennen Williams. He was re-elected to the S(•nate in 1964 and 1970. 
ThC'·format for the Notre Dame t<tlks includes public lectures on Thursday evening, April 5, and on Fridav afternoon and evening, April·6_ The remainder of the senator's two-day stay on the campus wiJl include informal discussions with students and interested faculty members. 
meeting with Hickey have drawn up a policy on distribution of the hours which will come up before the dept. heads for a vote this Monday. Hickey expects them to be passed with minor changes and hopes to have copies of the guidelines released to each SMC · student by the time they return from Thanksgiving vacation. 
HE' also announced that his group will hold an open session for students the day after the final decision is made and the official statement is released to clear up questions and misunderstandings concerning the new policy. 
Both Hickey and Henry said that discussion of special library fees and restrictions on athletic facilities did not conern the five­man committee which hammered out the new co-ex policy. 
"It never came into the discussion." said Hickey. "As far as I know, there never has been a fee for Saint Mary's students wanting to use the library. It's been free access as far as I can remember." 
In relation to restrictions on use of ND athletic facilties, Hickey l-ia id. "There has existed in the past a $50 per semester fee on those facilities for Saint Mary's students who wish to use them, and I assum<' this same fee will be ap­pli<'d next semester." 
The co-ex policy change letter, signed by Notre Dame provost James Burtchaell and Henry, 
dropped all "individual charges" 
for Saint Mary's students who will 
bl• taking courses at Notre Dame 
next semester, besides those 
special fees normally incurred in 
:he course of classwork. 
Rationales given for the change, 
<"reating a new policy labeled by 
vcsterday's Obsl'rver article as 
~me that "reverts back to that 
which was obtained <at> the in­
ception of the program in 1965," 
w<'re given by the letter as the 
d£'sirability of an "educational 
<'nrichment" and a "better 
procedure that would make co-ex 
opportunities more freely 
available fo students on campus." 
IIickey was restrained in his 
feelings' on what the new policy 
m<'ans to relations between Notre 
Dame and Saint Mary's, which 
have been confused since the 
merger failure last year. 
"I think we've been considerably 
more optimistic in the past than we 
are now," said Hickey. "There 
have been cases when we assumed 
that relations between schools 
\H're good, and then problems 
cam(' up and we found that they 
\H'ren't so good." 
Th£' letter is symbolic of a r<'beginning rather than a com­pl<':ed renormalization, said Hickey. "Now in a kind of sense \n•'rp back to where we were four or fivE:' ~·ears ago." The difference now. h<' added, is that the schools hop<' that "wp'll approach it more intelligently this time." 
Presidt>nt Henry put Saint Marv's interests in relations with Notre Dame in ·line with its policy of ('Sf a blishing links with local schools. 
"St. Mary's is always working lowards relations with other in­stitutions of higher learning," said IIPnry _ liP reported that his school is involved in just that kind of work with Indiana University at South Bmd and Bethel College in South l\1 ishewaka _ 
With reference to Notre Dame and Saint Mary's specifically, llmry said, "I'll continue to work towards improvements of relations bPtween both schools." 
University president Theodore IJPsburgh said that relations are "as normal as <they) can be." He would not comment further on the Burtchaell-Henry statement, :-;ay ing that "it stands on its own two feet." 
f<'r. Burtcha ell could not be r<'ached for comment. 
Last Five Days 

Open 7:00 

Storts Wednesday November 22 
"Trouble Man" 

Special Thanksgiving Eve Concert from Ann ~\rbor-Detroit, the infamous Rock and Rollers: 
BROWNSVILLE STATION-
And t:IPveland's Finest -CaDitol Recording Artists, 
THE RASPBERRIES 
Also Appearing 
BANG in Concert Wednesday, November 22 8 pm 
Tickets: $4.00 (advance}, $4.50 (at the doorJ Morris C1vic Avditorium 219 N. Michigan Avenue Downtown South Bend 
, For tic.::ets or further inf.Jrmation, call 8253. 
AREN'T YOU GLAD YOU'RE NOT GOING HOME rOR rHANKSGJVJNG? 
CAC DANCE & DRAMA SERIES PRESENTS 
MARCEL MARCEAU 
..The World's Greatest Mime" 
Feb. 16th ••8pm O'Laughlin 
Advance Ticket Sale 
Nov. 27th through Dec. 1st, ONLY Tickets on Sale at: CAC OFFICE--1-5 pm each day, 
and American National Bank-Main Branch 
MAIN FLOOR $4.50, BALCONY $3.50 ALL SEATS RESERVED 
Patrons Will Receive Preferential Seating 
PATRON CARDS ON SALE UNTIL DEC 1st 
For last 3 events--$7.00 Feb. 16 Marcel Marceau Feb. 27 Saeko lchinohe and Ballet Company Mar. 20 An Evening of One Act Plays Including 
"NEXT" by Terence McNally 
FOR INFORMATION CALL 283-3797 
Observer ads 
pay off/ 

...--FUN FESTIVAL--~ "MY LITTLE CHICKADEE" "THE BANK DICK" AND... in FLIX NO. 2 
Clint Eastwood 
in 
"DIRTY HARRY" 

Check our LOW, LOW Prices 
! :.-£1 OIIPL£ ' 
I 
f •suWllA.IND. 255-9575 

............ ..: -----... ·--­
-----··~ -----~ 



Friday, November 17, 1972 the observer 
5 
Open session on tap for the SLC· 
SUMMER AND SMOKE
Mayor hails student volunteers 
Tennessee William's beautifully fragile drama of frustrated love 

by Mary Janca Starr Reporter 
The Student Life Council will hold an open meeting for all interested students on Monday, Nov. 20 at 4:15 in room t12 of the C'Pnter of Continuing Education to discuss proposals concerning various aspects of on off-campus ~t udent housing. 
"What we're trying to do is rt'solve the situation of over­l'rowding that Notre Dame had last y('ar in the residence halls and try :o prevent it from happening again," explained Dr. Ackerman, ehairman of the steering com-

Olgesbee only candidate 
SMC Vice President election held today 
by Mary P. Egan "Oglesbee must gain a majority 
Observer Staff Reporter of the total votes cast in order to 
win. Voter may vote for the single 
St. Mary's Student Government nominee , abstain, or write in a is holding the election for the vote on their ballots," stated position of Student Body Vice Student Affairs Commissioner President today. SMC residents Barb McKiernan. McKiernan will may vote in the lobbies of their supervise the election. halls from 10:00 AM to 4:00 PM. Should Oglesbee win, another Day students and Off-Campus Student Body Secretary will be ~tudents may vote in the lobby of chosen by the President and Vice LeMans Hall. President. 
Sue Oglesbee, the present Sue Welte, the former Student Student Body Secretary, is the only Body Vice President, vacated the nominee for the position of Vice post to become President in the President. Nominations closed this wake of the resignation of former past Tuesday at midnight. SBP Jean Seymour. 
Mayor Jerry L. Miller of South Dame and Saint Mary's College for B('nd has proclaimed Monday, their plans to provide November 20, as Community Thanksgiving dinners for an Volunteer Day in the city to honor <'stimated 200 needy area families. students of the University of Notre A charity basketball game is 
Quota coznznittee decides on admissions lor feznales 
thousand female students by 1975.
by Jim Gresser Sr. John Miriam Jones, AssistantObst>rver Staff Reporter tot eh Provost said that the com­mittee's recommendation for next

The University Quota Com­

year's quota would allow for ap­mittee reached a decision proximately two thirds of the 1975y<'sterday on the number of female quota. She said that this would setstudents they feel should be ad­the total enrollment of women nextmitted to the university next year year between six hundred andbut would not release the exact seven hundred wor.nen.
number. 

After the University OfficersAccording to Fr. James Riehle, decided on a quota, the Office ofD£'an of Students and Director of 
Student Affairs will beginHousing, the committee's 
deliberations as to which hall will
recommendation must be ap­

be converted for female residents.
proved by the University Officers b<'fore it will be revealed to the public. The officers will either The Quota Committee consists of accept the committee's recom­the deans of the co1leges, Johnmendation, alter it themselves, or Goldrick, Director of Admissions;r('fer it back to the committee. 

Emil T. Hoffman, Dean of Freshman year; Leo Corbaci,Sr. John Miriam said that this 
Dean of Admissions; Rick 
dE.'finite decision on the quota Sullivan, Registrar; Fr. Riehle would be reached "fairly shortly," and Sr. John Miriam. The Com­

probably before the end of this mittee is chaired by Fr. Ferdinand semester. 

Brown. Associate Provost. 
The quota must be decided upon mittee of the SLC. 

"We want to look into four specific areas," continued Ackerman. "These include room pick procedures, the stay-hall system, the problems associated with selecting halls for women, and the steps used to determine who moves off-campus." 
Concerned members of the administration, and student body have been invited and are scheduled to speak on various topics in this area. 
According to Ackerman, Fr. Flannigan, associate vice­president of student affairs, will discuss the type of planning which planned for 8 p.m. Monday in the 
Washington Hall Notre Dame campus
Athletic and Convocation Center 
featuring the prospective first and 
Nov. 10, 11, 16, 17, 18 at 8:30pmsecond teams of the 1972-73 Notre 
Students $"1 jO Phone Reservations 284-4176
Dame basketball team. Admission will be by gifts of non-perishable food or cash contributions which will be used by the students to 
one showing only
purchCise turkeys and other perishable items. 
Halftime entertainment for the game will be a basketball contest matching Notre Dame women against a similar squad from Saint Mary's. The two teams will meet for the first time in the history of th(' two schools in an abreviated 
Camelot
Pxhibition of 20 minutes. 
S(•rvices of parking lot at­t £'nda'nts, ushers and security personnel will be donated at the 
Tonight -8:30 

g&lffi<' so that the entire proceeds will go for food to the needy. More 
SMC O'LAUGHLIN AUD. 
than 2,000 items of food were ('Ollected at a similar game last y<'ar in Coach Richard "Digger" 
Sponsored by, $1.00 
Phelps inaugural year at Notre 
Darn('. 
FC, FC 

Miller, in his proclamation, also noted that more than 1,000 students ar£' volunteering spare time hours ina variety of community projects. 
H<' said these endeavors merited his whole-hearted support an..d 
. urged other members of the community to join him in at­t£'ndance at the game. . For the same cause, the Student Union is showing the movie Anne or thr Thousand Days. Admission for the movie is twenty-five cents and proceeds will go for the same purposes as the basketball game. 
the Student Affiars office is con­of women's residence halls·, and ducting on the housing problem. :he determination of what students 
"We've also invited Fr. Reilly, will be forced to live off-campus in who is dean of students and the 1973-74 school year. director of housing," said Previously, the campus life Ackerman, "and who is ultimately l'ommittee determined that the concerned with this question." hall or halls selected would be 
The rectors of both Badin and located on the North Quad, in order Walsh Halls, Kathy Cekanski and to distribute the women more Joanne Szafran respectively, will ('venly on the campus. Both Grace talk on the factors involved with and Flanner Halls have been ruled sE'lecting ahall for women, and of out. however. due to difficulties of :he needs of women students. security and location. 
Also at this meeting, Sr. John Chris Singleton and other Miriam Jones, chairwoman of the reprPsPntatives from a committee SI:C subcommittee on campus life, of the Hall Presidents' Council w1ll present the committee's will report at this time, on it~ r<'commendations on the selection findings, in regard to the stay-hall 
system. 

A R<'ctors' committee, under the 

ctir<'ction of Fr. Andrew Ciferni, Holy Cross Hall rector, will then discuss the selection of students ·who will reside off-campus and the 
room-pick procedure. 
Subsequently, the difficulties of living off-campus will be presented by Student Government's Off­Campus Commissioner. 
TimP will also be allowed within the program schedule, according ro Ackerman, for any interested student to express his own views, nnd make suggestions. 
Throughout this meeting, con­dudPd Ackerman, "we're trying to pr('sent an opportunity for in­:('r('sf Pd people in the Notre Dame student community to voice their opinions on these matters, so that whm the Student Life Council has :o make a recommendation on all of these factors. we have as wide an input as possible. 
"Hopefully. then we can stimulate those interested in these
Sue Oglesbee: The only candidate for St. Mary's Student Govern­
ment Vice President. 
NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE presents 
problems, and get them to come to us to let us know what their thinking is, and how they got ,to where they are in their thinking," h£' said. 
l'•'lllllJ•tplji!tli-_.J
. -....... .......... . RIVER ~ PARI< 
•••••••• •·? ••••• , •••• 


A FRANKOVICH PRODUCT10N 
J
Bl1'f,ERFLIH8 
ARE 
FRHE 

GOLD~ Ht\wti 
€t£EN H€CAART 
&:'AL9ERT 
Sc teenplay by 

LEONARD GERSHE ~'t.,;po' 
P•oduced by 
M.J. FRANKOVICH 
O.tected by 
MILTON KATSELAS 

t.om COLUMBIA PICTURES ~ 
Call for times and directions 
soon because of the need to begin admitting the new students. The 

PITT ClUB Presents 
Admissions Department cannot admit students until they know 

Paul Newman & Robert Redford 
how mam: women they can accept. 

in 
Sr. Joh.n Miriam added that fhe BUTCH CASSIDY l'niversity does not \vant to recreate the housing crisis of this AND THE SUNDANCE KID ;-.·par and this is another reason for reaching the decision as soon as Fr j. Nov. i 7 possible. Eng. Aud. 
The committee·.:: recom-Sun. NOV. 1 9 
Adm. 1.00

mPndation basicallv follows the 7 30 & , Q 00
1

out 1ir. e w hic11 p!ims for or.e-l : : P·m · m e rn h -6 i c '": :"': .
..____________________
.:...:..;:...::::...:~.--. -~-:-.:::_.__; 

~-~ ---~ -------~--~~----------------------............­


'THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd  Dan Thornton  
Editor-in-Chief  NEWS: 283-1715  Business Manager  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  
Don Ruane  BUSINESS: 283-7471  Joe Butler  
Executive Editor  Advertising Manager  

Friday, November 17, 1972 

i 
I 
I 
I. 
f r 
I 
[ 
r 
;-· 
The Ugly Precedent 
There are two sides to the resignation terdistrict busing to promote racial in­who support his policies is basically 
of Fr. Theodore Hesburgh from the Civil tegration of school districts. Instead he sound. There are, however, good 
Rights Commission but they aren't that has called consistently for Congressional reasons why the Civil Rights 
all clear. authorization of an amendment to the Commission should preserve a healthy 
Hesburgh contends that his fifteen constitution which would prohibit busing measure of its autonomy from the years on the commission have been "a to promote racial integration. Presidency. 
great experience that I am glad to have --He has refused to use the federal guns to The federal government is the prin­had." He notes that over 70 percent of the force suburban municipalities into cipal enforcer of most of the civil rights 
commissions recommendations have revising discriminatory housing codes. legislation in the country for the simple been accepted--a situation which he --He has completely ignored the city of reason that only federal legislators have rightly claims represents "enormous Washington, D.C. with its 80 percent been able to escape local reactionaries progress." black population. long enough to pass laws that have some 
He also rightly notes that "many The litany could go on but Nixon's teeth in them. people have committed their lives and record is not the point. The issue is that Over the years the Civil Rights Com­talents to the civil rights struggle-and I the Civil Rights Commission could be mission has been the gadfly that kept the .imagine it will go on." reduced to an ineffective playground for federal government honest. If the 
The struggle made difficult people who would dive into the law books President could replace at will the 
The question is not whether the to find rationalizations for Nixon's poor members of the Government Accounting struggle will go on but whether the Civil civil rights policies. And it could easily Office one could hardly expect that that Rights Commission will continue to become just that if Nixon (or any of the agency would completely wipe-out the function as a strong and unrelenting presidents who succeed him) can simply watchdog effect that the agency now advocate of minority rights under a replace a critical Civil Rights Com­possesses. chairman appointed by Richard Nixon. mission with one more favorably There is no doubt that the federal 
To say the least Nixon's record on civil disposed to his own policies. government needs to be kept honest. The rights has been far from impressive. The ugly prededent justice department is only able to enforce --He has refused to enforce a Supreme The idea that a President should be about ten percent of all federal laws at court ruling calling for the use of in-surrounded with administrative aides any given time. Without a considerable amount of prodding it would be possible to ignore civil rights legislation for decades until a popular outcry similar to the one that rose up in the 1960's forced
Charity Basketball 
the President to use the civil rights tools already on the books to their fullest ef­fect.
towards buying turkeys for the families
Monday night at 8: 00, the Irish cagers The big maybe
while the non-perishables will be included 
will be taking the court for the first time Hesburgh believes that the CivilRightsin the mealin the 1972-73 season. Yet the foe they Commission might function more ef­
Ail the benefits of the game go. to the
will be playing against won't be Michigan fectively under chairman more to
needy. All services necessary for the
or Ohio State or even Valporaiso. The President Nixon's liking. That's an awfulIrish cagers wil be trying to defeat the operation of the event are being con­big maybe. No doubt the past four years
tributed by ushers, attendants and
lonliness and sorrow that comes with an . ' on the commission have been frustrating security.
impoverished Thanksgiving day. 
for Notre Dame's president. Never­
An excellent opportunity is being
While millions of other Americans theless, no one can reasonably argue thatsettle back in their chairs to watch the presented to Notre Dame and Saint the commission has reneged its watchdog Nebraska-Oklahoma football game after Mary's to really show theirconcernfor the role. 
a· resplendent feast, hundreds of South community around them. Many hours of The biggest loss to the country is not
preparation have gone into setting up the 
Bend families will be suf­the loss of one particlular man whoa suc­fereing ... suffering because they cannot affair and all that'snecessary for happened not to get along with the
cessful project is the support of the
afford a Thanksgiving day banquet...let 
President--itis the loss of one agency thatstudents.
let alone a television set to watch college held one of the unique place in the federal football on. 
heirarchy that permitted it to be an ef­It is this kind of suffering that those Community Volunteer Day fective counterforce to its own creator. 
cagers are trying to beat. 

We can only hope that the civil rights
South Bend mayor Jerry Miller thinks 
movement has come far enough to carry
enough o~ the project to declare Monday,
Digger's Debut on by its own momentum. History, un­

Commumty Volunteer Day in the city. 
fortunately, doesn't reinforce that hopeThe basketball game will be Digger's We think enough of the project to very much.
strongly urge all ND-SMC students to
Debut and it will be an intrasquad 
actively participate in this game. When
match-up of Phelp's boys. And just as last year, admission to the game can be those Irish cagers come off the floor John Abowd purchased for 50 cents or with gifts of Monday night, make sure that the 
winners are not only the ones who score
non-perishable foods. 

the most points.
The organizers are attempting to round-up enough food and cash to feed 200 families. The money collected will go Jerry Lutkus the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell 
News Editor: Anthony Abowd 
narry· trud-au 

St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher
-;I Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus
daanesbury 5 
features Editor: Rod Braye ,-------------. ,...----------. 
Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 
Campus Editor: Ann therese Darin 
WHitT PO
/11K&: J.'V'e eG~ yeA~ Bvr 
Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis
W&"t.t-,

YOIJ H&RN YO()
7HINK/Ms fOR /1 t,ONG WHAt ODI 
Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett
I'Ve B££911

£)0!1/'T KNO/JJ?
711-1~ ABWr 1151\ING SAY EXACTl-Y? 
Asst. Ad Manager: Patti Strobel
AIVFl/l-

WHeN tfJ/15 THe
.:fORN!c Cf1tJClJ5 FOR r1 :r/JOI'I'T R£AUY 
L~usiness Secretary: Ceil Popovich
115"3?/ 8/JSY...

hAST T/118' YOU
PRTe". .. /)() YW H/11/c KNOW THe 
Subscriptions Manager~ Art Ferranti
Hfl/7 11 [)11~
MY S()66€S.rt0NS AS PROCeDUR~.. 
I I 

Produ.ction Manager: Joe Wilkowski
I !<£(/? ---e::~ I
1"0 HCMJ J: SHOiJW 00 
I 

Circulation: John Woods Nite Editor: Joe Abell 
Special Assistant Nite Editors: Bill Brink, 
Jerry Lutkus, John Abowd Day t:OITOr: Bill Sohn Picture Screener: Jerome Phillips Nite Cootroller: Rob Barringer 
'-IT? 

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the
~~I ) 
...;..._, 
opinion of the individual writer; they are IH7 
not to be taken as editorial comment. 
t ' ~ ~ •: •, > r •. ·',. I, • :, _, ~· I I -· '' • • ~ 
'>

...·" \. . ~ . . ,; . . • I 
",_, ~:··· .-,-•• ~ .·\ ·j·_'.. ·•· ...~·.·. -.1 
} 
'·• 
~ 
Fa~• What It's Warth 


Second Hand Rosa and Dr. Fern 
dan ruane 
L<'tters to the Pditor frequently make the best reading in any m•wspaper, bPcause they show the extremes of people who read the publiation. 
Usually the letters will rake a newspaper for its coverage of some (•vent. accuse it of slanting the news or trying to control opinions. Som<'tim<'s :hev are letters praising the local official or project and l<'tt<'rs which debate the issues. 
L<'t t<'rs that make it to Th£' Observer usually put Th<• Observer or som<' poohbah on the carpet. and proceed to pull it out from un­ciPrneath th£' target. 'Sometimes they criticize the entire place for not living up to <·xpectiations or predictions. 
('osmic Stnmghold or the lfniverse 
On<' such letter crossed.mv desk last week from a law student here just over three months. It was an open letter to the Notre J?a~e communitv (•xpr<'ssing the author's intolerance of the Chnstian community idea continually thrown in her face since she arrived. For th<' author·. the idea holds the implication that Notre Dame is "some sort of cosmic stronghold of the universe." 
ll<'r intolPrance "reached Vesuvian heights" after she met Evelyn, ;m MSU art student, and some of her friends who were here for the FPldhaus art competition earlier this month. 
Evelvn told the author that she and her friends were given quarters on the dirt floor of the Fieldhouse after two communications with Dr. Thomas Fern. chairman of the art department, had assured them they would be provided with adequate housing. Evelyn also complained of 
:h<' cockroaches, cold showers, filthy toilets and drunk r<'d-blooded 1'\otre Dam<' men who wandered into lh<' building and tripped over Ewlvn and her friends. 
Aecording to the author, the group was invited to the art conference. H(•sid('s the dirt floor, the group had trouble with the "Blue Meanies"­our campus rent-a-cops whose officious pretention it is to keep un­d<'sirabl('s from invading the bastion of the "Christian community." Tht• s<'curity guard, in short, would not let Evelyn, et al, to drive on <·ampus to set their display up in the Fieldhouse. 
J<:vdvn added to her bad report card on the art department, ac­<·ording to the author, by saying there was no cooperation to provide ~r s<'ll them videotape equipment, or fi_?d a place where they could buy •.t. Th<•y wandPred through South Bel)d for three hours m s<'arch of a supplier. , 
Tm conclusion according to the author is that the MSU contingent got nothing but grief for willingly s~nding th~ir o~n .m~n~y a_nd time :o share their ideas in accordancewtth the tlmverstty s mvttatlon. The author states that many left early in disgust. and won't be back to again share the "Christian Community." 
Following l'p th.-Letter 
Now it is not< >bs£'rver policy to follow up every letter we receive, hut this one raised some serious questions about Notre Dame and Psp<'cially the art department. 
Sine<' Dr. F£'rn was singled out, I contacted him about the letter and askro him to explain. 
l''irst. Dr. F<'rn corresponded with Rosa Patino, and not ail Evelyn. I :ri£'d to reach Patino, but she was not listed in either the East Lansing or MSU tc>lephone directory. 
S(•cond, Patinoand her friends were offered the best housing within 15 minutes of their arrival, of some 100 rooms the art department had arranged for participants, but they refused, according to Fern, h£'cause they felt most of their time would be spent assembling their project in the Fieldhouse and preferred to stay: her<'SO they could work as late.• as they pleased. They stayed in the poetry room which has a floor. Fern added that he was told they stayed two nights in Badin. 
Third. the group did have problems at first with the "Blue mPani('s," but they talked with I<,ern who solved the situation. He added that there was more trouble later in the week wh<'nthe MSU group frequently drove on and off campus. 
l<,ourth. the Feldhaus competition publicity noted that no equipment would be provided. Fern said he was not asked at any time if they. could buy a video tape from the art department; and the audio visual, wh<'re the the group sought a tape, could not supply matching ('quipmPnt. HP added that a member of the department spent a good dPal of time trying to assist them, and that the department rented an ('Xtra long extension cord, and 40 foot ladder for the students. 
Fifth. the competition was sponsored by the Mid-American College Art Association, and participation was contingent upon acceptance of a p_re-submitted project. Notre Dame was host. but invitations w£'ren't involved. It was a matter of advancing to competition'finals. 
Jo,inally. Fern said the MSU students were the only group to com­pia in. and that they l£'ft early.Soncerning the letter, he said it was not justified and inaccurate. 
A natural defensive move right? I doubt it. 
Thf' 0('l'asional Misfits 
Most letters which come to The Observerare well written, but there ar<' occassional misfits which reach to great depths of shallowness in the criticism. 
I think this is one of those letters. Besides being riddled with 22 ('XamplE's of typographical errors and broken margins; and being written on two different types of paper; the author has :aken second hand facts at face valuefromsomeone whose acquaintanceshehas just made. 
L£'tters are an important part of newspapers. They provide a public forum for those who aren't in the position to generate news in any other way. 
However, it is only a sound forum if it is factually based. Alleged facts from roomates who are in no position to get the real facts, or those overheard in dining hall conversations are not osund enough on which to base criticisms. It dosen't take much to make a phone call to confirm something. 
It ~ay t_ake some of the black humor out of the letters page, but at least •t w1ll be more accurate and informative. KP('p them letters coming. 
OBSERVER 
COMMENT 
Friday, November 17, 1972 Page 7 
Dpinian You Can't Appreciate the Sun 
ken wrir:~ht 
SomPhow the cycle of the year has brought us to th<'se days again. The upperclassmen know them wPll. Thl'se days seem hard to tell apart from one anoth<'r t'specially since many flow together as our studi£'s keep us up all night and each day we are gr<'<'ted by the same gray bleakness in the Indiana sky. 
The summer has faded beyond the point that we ean eh<'er ourselves by recalling all the joys it had for us. Ah<'ad of us lies such a demanding task that W<' cannot see beyond to the month of sweet respite waiting for each and everyone of us no matter how \n•ll W£' perform the tasks that lie between now and th<'n. 
Not as many of us are smiling now, some have not JWrformed so well and some are so lonely that they don't realize how many feel the same way. 
W<' walk about the campus each lost in our own misPrable interpretation of November. We each <·arrv two keys. One we use to lock out the rest of the world and w'ith the other we open the little spaces where we are supposed to hear from the world outside. beyond the shadow of the dome. 
My concern right now is with those who have not <'XJ)('rienced this part of Notre Dame before. Those 
who have not adjusted as fast as others who are 
Letters... 
Nixon's victory 
Editor: 
M~· first reaction to the re­t'IPction of Richard Nixon was one of surprising, almost frightening, apathy. I knew it was coming, and 1 more-or-less resigned myself to its int'vitability. This reaction of min(' bothered me for several days. I wondered how many other p<•ople in this country received the ('}(•ction in the same manner as m:vself. How many other people, who wPre once concerned and involved. had simply given up all hope for a hetter America and r<'sign<'d themselves to the way things arP. 
1 thought back over the entire campaign. Richard Nixon· dt•ceived, in my opm10n tTiminally. the American people. Th<' frightening thing is that his d<'<'eptions. lies, and criminal acts won hims<'lf the Presidency for another four years. In his post pf<•ct ion t•omments, the President promis<•d us that peace was soon to lw at hand <a rather drastic switch from his pre-dection "Peace is at h~md"). He promised once again :o bring us all together. to give the AmNican people a "moral" Am(•rica that we can all be proud of. Four years ago Richard Nixon promised us the same things. His r<'cord in office makes a mockery of the things he's promised and a mockery of the American people. For they are the ones who re­Pl<'cted him. 
Its very <'asy for us, who live in a eoll<'g(' community, to forget all of this and bury ourselves in our hooks and our personal interests. After all none of this really effects us at the moment. Someday, howPver. we'11 all have to leave :his dosed atmosphere and face th(' world as it really is. Perhaps \n''d all better start giving a damn again before there is nothing left to giv(' a damn about. The nation sat around and watched Richard Nixon and his policies be re-
J 
I 
I 
J 
j I 
j 
l 
I 
l j 
I 
doing so much better. Those who right now are groping for whatever it will take to get them in a bPtter frame of mind so they can return to their walk on the road of academic excellence which led them to du lac this autumn and now has seemed to ,·an ish from beneath their feet. I am talking to all of you with pink slips. 
You are aU extremely lucky! You shall learn so much more about yourselves before the semester's over. I'm not saying that the final weeks in this :-;pmester shall be the best times you've ever had for thPy most likely will be the worst time. A good number of you shall find an inner strength you n<'ver thought you had before and it shall lift you past these hard times. But through your acquain­tance right now with frowns and bad feelings you shall all. no matter if you push up your grades or not. learn just how great the smiles and good times are. 
"It seems it never rains In Southern California." So I'll wager, Californian, That you can't appreciate the sun. 

...on Nixon 
t>ll>ct<'d. Are we to be caught still sitting <lround in '76? 
Bob Griffin 
.1. Patrick Boyle 
:!51 Cavanaugh 
14f),') 

the towers 
Jo:ditor: 

WP write concerning a statement 
made in the lead story of the Nov. 
14 issue of The Obst'rver. To wit: 
"The campus life committee voted unanimously that the hall or halls selected <for women's residence next year) should be on the North Quad so that the con­l'<'ntration of women would not be in on£' place. Thf' l'ommitte.-also rulf'd out lhf' two towers. citing safc•ty and location problems. 
Safety and location problems? What about us poor <male) :-;chnooks living in the two towers now? 
Concerned Residents Grace and Flanner 

(signature withheld by request) 
female o-c 
Editor: 

I noticed in today's issue of The Obs.-rver <Nov. 14) that the SLC had supported the idea of requiring all female Notre Dame students to live on campus next year, unless these students live with South Bend relatives. 
While the number of women students desiring to move off­campus is probably very small, I f('('l we have a serious cause -and ought to be allowed to choose wh('re we would live next year. 
First. most women students are transfer students and this means :hat they're not eligible for any financial aid from the University until they have been at the university. for one year. The 
transfer student not only loses such benefits as a scholarship, but she also cannot Jive more cheaply 
the Towers
I 
by moving off-campus. 

S(•cond, one does not have to live <lt Notre Dame all the time to be "a Notre Dame student." Many upperclassmen especially would appreciate a change from dor­mitory living. Since many transfer students come from nearby St. Mary's, there is no need to familiarize these studeents with "what it is like to live at Notre Dam<'." 
Jo,inally. why not apply the rules regulating student life fairly? All other minorities <and majorities) :hat attend Notre Dame are allowed to live off-campus after on(' year's residence at the University <with the exception of scholarship students.) This year is a l'hange-over year for Notre Dam<' as it .begins coeducation. But the whole process is so "numbers-conscious" that it easy to feel like a :oken female-­t>specially when one can be \"iewed as another number living in a certain hall. Notre Dame doesn't s('('m to remember that it could <'xpand coeducation by a few pr<'cious numbers more if it 

allow<'d some of its women students to live off-camous -as 
W(•ll  it  allows  mal£' students  to  
move off-campu s.  
Notre  Dame  is  basically  a  

residential university and most students want to live here <after all. ·they chose to come here.) But for the sake of a justly-applied rule and also to allow more flesibility within coeducation, I strongly advise the SLC to change its po:~ition rather than support a definite discrimination. 
Sincerely, Jan Reimer:. Badin 
1111I11111111111111111111111111111111111I I IIIIIIIIIIIIIUI. 
Only typewritten and signed IPtters will be considered for publication. Mail letters to The Observer. Box Q. Notre Dame. Indiana 4r· -56 or bring them to the thirrf f'l"l''' TaFort<mP office. We resen·e the right to eoit letters to meet spac1> r•'f)LLirements. 

.... ,.. ... __......___, ___.--------­

the observer Friday, November 17, 1972
8 

lithuana -a case for civil rights 

~ love story that ends a-mystery 

Roman, a young university student, walked through the streets of his hometown on his way to the city park. It was that brief time of year which every citizen of Kaunas cherishes -the season of the linden blossoms. This blossom has a special place in the hearts of the Lithuanian people. Freed from dreary months of frost and darkness, the blossoming of the linden trees signals the advent of better days. 
Like every other Lithuanian, Roman loves the blossom's scent and each year he allowed himself to be swept into the glorious times of Lithuania's past. He used to sit in the park and dream of the time when his ancestors had carved out a mighty nation, which stretched from the Baltic to the Black Sea and from the border of Poland to the very outskirts of Moscow. An anciet race still pagan, the fierce Lithuanian warriors had crushed the German Teutonic Knights at Tannenberg 0410) and had then em­barked on the conquest of Russia. For as long as he could remember, he had loved this time and taken pride and consolation from it. 
But things were changing now. Books were changing. History was being manipulated. More and more, the children 
were using other words. -Russian words. In a way they were right. Roman knew that the Lithuanian Empire was but a spark of night within a never-ending struggle for freedom. But in that struggle -there was the glory. Theirs was a thousand-year-old history of resistance. The endless struggl~s have left their marks in every street, m £'very castle ruin, in ever~; brok_en monument. Every hillside speaks out With the remains of burned-out villages and the graves of myriad heroes. It might as well have been a myth. He thought for a time. His 
expressions changed: from fear, to sadness, to determination. Today, he would proceedf to the park. 
[ 
( 
~ 
f. This is the real story of a boy and a girl--it 
is not a love story; at least it is not a lover storv in the usual sense. It is a story so ( n·c~nt it is still happening. It could not have { happ<'n('d if two people, for different 
rPasons, were not profoundly concerned ~ about one another. It could only have ( happmed at a place like Notre D~me where ( thP Iivl's of good people touch the hves of sad ( JWopl<' in a city of the Lonely God. 
Bill is a student living in one of the halls atf Notre Dam£'. He is a quiet boy, full of ( goodnPss and human concern. He is a ( Catholic. but his religion is not so intense 
r 
1hat h<' never misses Mass on Sunday. His 
faith is of a kind that questions dogma, but
( 
in his charity, he is very close to Christ.

( 
J:<:arlv this semester, Bill recieved a phone
( 
eall fr~m a girl named Cindy in South Bend. ' 
( 
It was one of those situations, common
( 
t•nough around here, in which a town girl
( 
dials a Notre Dame number, seemingly at
( 
random. in hope of finding a pick-up or a
( 
frimd. As sometimes also happens, the girl} Cindy was. according to her own admission, a prostitute. Bill, lonesome like lots of other
( 
Notre Dame guys, was not in the market forI making deals with a prostitute; but by the
( 
f 
:imP hP was aware of Cindy's profession he had b(•com£' sympathetically attached to the id<.•a of helping a girl living without optionsr in a life of squalor.
I 
In a city where, it is said, young girls are 
{ 
b<'ing daiiy trapped into a life of prosti~uti~n
( 
through being hooked on drugs, Cmdy s 
r story was plausible enough. For several 
f \'ears now, Cindy, eighteen years old, has 
( llPen a prostitute. Her brother Tom is her 
r pimp: he keep~ her line thro~gh_ an ad­
r diction to herom. Also prostitutmg and 
r hooked on drugs is a younger sister, Chris, 
r age fouteen. This is the story that Cindy told 
{ Rill. 
'( Bill is not a crusader, but he is a decent, 
1 sensitive human being. His reaction to this 
sad tale was predictable: he offered help. 
( Cindy's response was, she wanted to be 
t helped very much. 
f Now the rescue operation of two teen-age
t 
prostitutes enslaved by drugs may seem 
f v<'ry simple: you get names, address~s, and 
t' a pair of policemen, and you ra1d the 

pr<'mises of the brothel. But what if the 
On this sunny day in Kaunas in May of 1972, Roman Kalanta sat down in the city park, which is called Freedom Square, and set a match to a gallon of gasoline which he had poured over his body. No one in Lithuania, or in the entire Soviet Union for that matter, had to ask why he did it, for it was all too clear. His suicide was followed by three other Lithuanian burnings and massive protests throughout the country. During Kalanta's funeral open rioting ignited when a girl was manhandled by police after she had lain down in the street with her arms spread in the form of a cross. Thousands of students and workers at­tacked Communist Party and secret police headquarters, shouting ''Freedom for Lithuania!" EvP.ntuallv. tou~Ul 
riot-control paratroopers were called into 
Kaunas and hundreds were arrested. This 
was the biggest demonstration to occur in 
the U.S.S.R. within recent memory. 
Significantly, it was but one facet in an 
increasingly powerful "civil rights" 
movement in the entire Soviet Union. 
Lithuania's is a struggle for her history. 
Her language and traditions, which trace 
back almost five thousand years, are the 
things the Lithuanians cherish the most. 
But the Soviets are determined to wipe out 
this long tradition. 
But the truly frightening aspect of this plan is its global extent. What many westerners do not realize is that the Russian people comprise little more that fifty per cent of the total population of the Soviet Union. The rest are members of twenty ethnic groups, each with a unique language and culture. With the aim of creating '"a single common socialist culture with a single common tongue", the ethnic Russian rulers in the Kremlin have taken on the task of Russifying 112 million people. .The western world's ignorance of this genocide greatly simplifies their task. 
To fight this tyranny, non-Russian 
Letters Ta A Lanely Ciad 
affair i~ :omplicated by the pimp's conc­n<'ction with the underworld? What if you ar<' told by professional men, called in as <·onsultants, that the last well-meaning kid who tried to help a local prostitute was found dead as a supposed suicide? What if \'OU are told that the last local girl who tried io pscape the prostitute's game ended up d£'ad from the effects of an abortion, and whP was not even pregnant? You can't h('lp prostitutes escape if they insist that th<'ir lives and yours are in mortal danger from a syndicate of crime with connections in <'very city to hunt you down and kill. 
Early on: Bill, sensing he was in beyond his depth. came to consult me, so that we <·ould be in beyond our depth together in trying to aid these girls. Through him, for \H'Pks. I was informed of a parade of horrors both of us were helpless to interrupt, for <'xample. the story of Chris's abortion. J:<'or five days, Cindy told us, Chris lay bl<•eding after the abortion. I tried at that 1im<' to arrange for both girls to see a gynecologist; but Chris, frightened by the fpar of an arrest for undergoing an illegal oJwrat ion, informed her brother Tom, the pimp. Cindy was punished by beatings and bv fixes of heroin withheld. Later there v.:Pre other details of punitive measures inflicted: Lighted matches held to the nipples of the breast until first class burns ·h-a,d developed, and tattoo marks of the word prostjtute traced in indelible ink on the abdomen, placed there, Tom said, so that the girl Nould be ashamed to try to see any other aoctor than the one employed by the tradl'. 
The hero of this story is Bill. Through hours on the telephone with Cindy, he listened: it iS. not easy to be a good listener when you are hearing about outrages for which someone should be hanged. But Bill listened and consoled and advised, and .he was sick at heart the whole time. Together, W<' planned how the girls might be helped. W<' did not dare to move too precipitously, for Cindy warned us of police connections her brother had: and even city lawyers told us that the cops were not to be trusted. B<'sides, ·we had only Cindy's wor'd that the whole mess was true, and how well can you trust a self-professed heroin addict to 
saulius matas 

nationalist forces and Russian liberals have churches and more than doubled the penaltyformed what is now known as the SOviet for "anti-soviet activity" to seven yearscivil rights movement. imprisonment. In addition, the civil rights In Jess than a decade, the movememt activists are faced with the one problem 
has created the Samizdat, which cir­culates effectively throughout the Soviet Union. Democrati~-minded dissidents have organized around their churches-notably the Jews, Catholics and Baptists. In 90 per cent-Catholic Lithuania, 17,000 dared to sign a petition in the winter of 1972 to part~ chief Brezhnev and to Kurt Waldheim of the United Nations in which they asked for enforcement of Soviet consitutional guarantees of freedom of religion that are now being violated. Finally famous authors and scientists such as P. Yakir, A. Solzhenitsyn, and A. Sakharov have proclaimed to the free world-with eloquence and anguish-the Kremlin's injustices. 
However, the movement has hardly been as effective as it had hoped to be. It suc­ceeded in stirring up national and liberal consciousness; but the result has been a severe crackdown by the KGB. So far the police have not been able to curb Samizdat entirely, but they have closed down many 
·. ..•. matters. But make it a definite and active =:):tt . yes or no. The future of twenty cultures, of ·· 112 millicln, whould not be decided by our 
refusal to become committed. 

rev. rabert 'riffin 
distinguish between fact and fantasy? 

On several occasions, we met Cindy and briPfly talked with her. She was a plainlooking little thing, very shy and rather sW<'<'t. She looked like the not-quite-with-it girl in your high school class whom no one I'Vl'r asked out; she was not all bonde and brassv like some hookers I haveseen in New York.· But she didn't have to wear wigs and hot pants and gladiator boots, like the New York hookers, Cindy told Bill. She was not a st rl'<'t walker: instead her brother brought :he johns to the house, and the way-out, wPirdo johns at that. 
Gradually. Bill collected the facts of 
Cindv's life: the addresses where she lived, 
thP bars where her brother hung out, the 
aliases they had sometimes used in hustling. 
With the emergence of facts, we began to 
eheck out Cindy's story, only no one in South 
B<•nd seemed to have heard of Cindy and 
twr pimp. this operator on the drug scene, 
this kingpin is his own stable of lust. Then 
one day, Cmdy gave us a new story: a 
campus student, she said, had become 
involved wi.th another prostitute on her 
premises. The girl had left the brothel with 
thP student and had returned with him to 
Notre Dame, where she was now living in 
his room. All of the facts given us were 
('arefully checked out, but there was no 
shred of evidence to verify the story, and a 
lot of evidence against. it. 

l'~inally, in recent days, Cindy phoned to 
say her brother had forced her into 
mi1rriage with a native-born Italian. The 
Italian needed marriage to an American 
girl. she said; otherwise he wol.lld have to 
l<'ave the country as an alien. Cindy had 
been chosen as the bride to keep him here; 
she was heartbroken, she said, at the role 
forced upon her. A check with the County 
Clerk verified that once again, there were 
no facts to support the story. There was 
nof filing of the intentions to be married, no 
record that the marriage had taken place. 
Faced with the facts of no proof, Cindy 
told us she was going away on a honeymoon 
with h('r new husband. Her husband and her 
brother, she said, were gradually takil:lg 
her off heroin, and her husband was tall(ing 
of having children. Having children might 
b£' impossible for her. she said, because of they had not expected: the West's un­willingness to listen-or even to acknowledge them! Only the U.S., Canada, and Western Europe have the bargaining power to put pressure on unjust Soviet actions, but these very same nations en­courage the oppressors by ignoring the dissidents. Alexander Solzhenitsyn, in his Nobel Prize acceptance speech, castigated the West as well as the Soviet Union for "comfortably ignoring all the groans, the stifled cries, the destroyed lives, as long as these remain at a distance." Going on, he writes: "The timid civilized world has 
found nothing wi'tb which to oppose the onslaught of a sudden revival of barbarity, except with concessions and smiles." 
Possibly because of our skepticism with 
our own government's policies . we reject such issues as stale, anti-communist propaganda which died along with the end of the 1950's. But keep this in mind: this combination of nationalist and civil rights issues is a new development in the Soviet Union. They are not some band of reac­tionary bourgeoisie working for the re­introduction of the capitalist system. Roman Kalanta was a member of the 
Communist  Youth  League.  They  are  
merely  people, fighting  for  their  basic  
human  rights  of  history,  language,  

literature, and religious belief. They are risking their necks, even they have taken their own lives, as they must have an active and determined world opinion on their side if they are to succeed in any significant way. The movement asks of those who are listening to voice their opinion on these 
th£' damage from an abortion she wa~~orced :o undergo several years ago. 
Cindy said she was in love witi(Bill, and she had begun to imagine he w~s in love with her. Now, she said, she 16flew that a love affair between them was.-impossible, b<'cause Bill could never love her as anything more than a sister. Sill, who had always known this was try€, could not disagree. i 
This is a real story, and only the names have been changed. I do not know which of Cindy-'s facts are true, and which were the fantasies of a lonely girl: I hope that the horrors are all untrue, and that they were bids for attention fron1 Cindy, whol looks like the girl in your high school class who was never had dates. I honestly feel that :his is a love story: Cindy in love with Bill, who was possible one of the few people who was ever kind to her in a non-exploitative way: Bill loving Cindy like an older brother earing for a troubled child. 
In think there are lots of lonely girls in South Bend who look for attention from students on this campus. I think students hear a lot of hardluck stories from the girls in town. The problem with this particular story is that there are so many unanswered queStions; as Bill remarked, it is like a puzzle that has been destroyed before half the pieces are put together. Among all the confused details that tell of pimps, drugs, abortions, torture, police corruption, and girls in trouble, only two facts stand clear: one girl thought enough of one boy to tell him apparent lies; and one boy had enough ('Ompassion for a girl he was not in love with. to risk helping her, even when he thought it might be mortally dangerous to himself. 
Those of you who have also listened to hardluck stories: in your own attention to :ales of sadness, have you also heard the story of these teen-age girls sent hustling by their brother? Can you confirm the story, 
or deny its truth, or somehow give it  an  
<'nding.  
This is the story of a boy and a girl.  It  

began as a love story. I would feel sorry to see it end simply as a mystery. That is one reason Bill and I have shared the story with 
~·ou. 

Friday, November 17, 1972 the observer 
9 

Little Bi'=l Screen 
yes -innovators 
•

1n a world of similarity
arl: f•rrant:i 
joseph abel/ 

No. this is not a rerun of a past column but 
a bratl,d new one since the paper is not 
publisning next week. First I must correct a 
few mist\Jces from my last column. Patton 
airs at 9:~ on 28 Sunday instead of 8:00 and 
The Grt>en Berets airs at 8:00 on 16 Saturday 
<tomorrow\ instead of 9:00 as reported. I 
get a ,ittle ~ixed up at times. One more 
correction, tllP. Patton Museum is in Fort 
Knox, Kentucky, not Texas. Oh well, I was 
close: give or take 1,000 miles or so. 
We have just about everything this 
coming wee, comedy, fantasy. drama, 
music, and horror; and most of it is worth 
your watching <remember vacation is next 
week). On the drama side, next Tuesday on 
28 Rrian's Song can be re-seen. It was the 
highest ranked movie last year and, after an 
unsuccessful run in theaters across the 
nation, ABC bought it back. A jock's v~rsion 
of Lovt> Story, this film concerns itself;+with 
the relationship of Gale Sayers <playM by 
Billy Dee Williams) and Brian Piccolo 
<played by James Caan-The Godfather) the 
first black and white to room together on the 
road for the Chicago Bears. This emmy 
award winner traces fr..eir training and 
Piccolo's tragic death from cancer in 1970. 
Jack Warden ("Wackiest Ship in the Army" 
and "N.Y.P.D."> won an emmy as coach 
George Halas. The film kicks off at 8:30. 
In typical television competitive style 
NBC has scheduled West Side Story at the 
same time as Brian's Song. This winner of 
ten academy awards (topped only by Ben 
llur with eleven) shows the feud between 
the Sharks and the Jets as the leader of the 
Hets, Richard Beymer, falls in love with the 
sister of the leader of Sharks played by 
Natalie Wood with her singing dubbed in by 
Mamie Nixon. George Chakiris copped an 
Oscar as the leader of the Sharks and Rita 
Moreno, who played his girlfriend, took an 
Oscar home also. This modern day version 
of Romf•o and Juliet also features Russ 
Tamblyn and Simon Oakland and some 
great scenes and songs. The blades flash at 
8:00. 
Monday has the Neil Simon movie 
. adaptation of one of his Broadway smashes ·J!;lr_t>foot in the Park on 16. With Robert R~dlord repeating his broadway per-form'ct~e and Jame Fonda at her sexiest before Jj•s.barella (a pretty bad movie in­didentallyT~.,_this flick is filled with the typical Sirrlbe one-liners guaranteed to 
Uvt> a Little. Love a Little on Friday on CBS at -9:00 is another Elvis Presley flick with an inane plot too simplistic to be worth mentioning here. Skip it. Once Upon a Time in tht> West is set for the ABC Sunday Night Movie on Nov. 26. 
How to Succeed in. Business Without Ht>ally TRYING, Another Broadway musical brought tQ the scre<.n, has Robert Morse <"That's Life") turning in a great performance ranking with that of another con man, Robert Preston, in The Music Man. For some good laughs, tune in Saturday Nov. 25 on NBC at nine. In­cidentally, for those who are leaving next weekend, all times listed above are Eastern Standard Time and substitute your local affiliate station for NBC 06), CBS (22), and ABC (28). 
There are two made-for T'1/ flicks next week that have not been seen before. Gargoyles (Tues. 9:30; CBS) has Corpel Wilde ducking half-men, half-bat creatures in the Carlsbad Caverns of New Mexico. I hope he watches out for the bottomless pit because that's where the flick will be rated with the oppostion from ABC and NBC Tuesday. All My Darling Daughters (Wed. 
9:30 on ABC) has Robert Young trying to relive his "Father Knows Best" days. Regular Marcus Welby viewers may be in for a shock when they tune in at 10:00 and find him married to Eve Arden and with four daughters. 
Trivia: ABC and CBS have announced their cancelation plans for a few of their shows. ABC axed Alias Smith and Jones and ThC' Sixth Sense replacing Alias with two situation comedies and Sense with The l\1t>n to see if it does any better. Kung Fu will be seen wee!Tly on Thursdays at &;00 and The Streets of Sand Francisco will follow that at 10:00. Owen Marshall will move to Wednesdays at 10:00 following the Wednesday Movie of the Week moved back an hour at 7:30. Julie Andrews will be moved to Saturdays at 9:00. CBS is moving Carol Burnett to 10:00 on Saturdays (Julie and Carol will then be back to back) and transplanting Mission: Impossible to Fridays at 8:00 and Sonny and Cher to Wednesdays at 8:00. Anna and the King is axed and Dick Van Dyke will replace it. "The Sandy Duncan Show" is also canned and "Mannix" will be seen at 8:30 Sundays instead of 9:30. A new detective show en­
break you up. 'tip-toe through the tulips at titled "Barnaby Cobb" has Buddy Ebsen 
9:00. 
Chitty Chitty Bang B.ang, based on the Ian Fleming <he wrote tne James Bond books for those who have been in the library for the past ten years) novel, is strictly for kids and is probably why it is set for Thanksgiving day. With Dick Van Dyke, this film has a car that flies, which is not so original since Disney had Fred MacMurray steering a flying fliver in all those Absent l\lindt>d Proft>ssor-Flubber-Sone of Flubber 
flicks years ago. Anyhow, it takes off at 9:00. 
<"The Beverly Hilbillies") in the lead at 
9:30 those nights. Confused? How do you think I feel? What you see above is the abridgement of a New York Times) two column by five inch article! Trivia Quiz: Name the smallest budgetted film to receive an Oscar as the best film, the year in which it was received, and the actor who received best actor for his role in it. 
Happy Turkey Day. ·ooo·o~&$ ump ssa1 :1so:::> ~au,u3Jog lS<JUJ3 :JOlJV ~~~6{ :Jeax ~Al.ll!lt\J :WI!..-1 Z!nb t?!A!J.L Ol J<)MSUV 
Yes is one of those extremely rare kinds of groups that does something that is so necessary to the rock music scene, and yet is so hard to do: innovate. 
The Yes sound, one I like to call "or­chestrated rock," is a completely different one from the kinds of music drifting from the windows of the practice room of most groups. It finds a unique cross between the classical orchestration of symphonies and the latest of the rock trends. Out of this strange combination comes a kind of music that is like the Moody Blues: virtually alone in its field. 
Ah, you say; what about groups like Rare Earth, Flash, Emerson, Lake and Palmer, and even the aforementioned Moody Blues? Dorilot they fit into this "orchestrated rock" category too? Not really. E, L&P are much more , classical-oriented, and dependent almost solely on a single instrument. Rare Earth, while as varied in instruments as Yes, doesn't have the sophistricated complexity of the English group. The Moody Blues are basica,lly a rock and roll band with mellowron and flute overlaid, a combination that gives an "orchestra" effect, but is far from the complicated in­teraction of Yes. And Flash is literally a spin-off of Yes. 
And back in those good old days, wuen 
Kaye and Banks were with the group, the 
sound <and the popularity_ ) were something 
totally different from the current Yes sound. 
The first album, YES set a pattern. It was the beginning of a series, a very primitive beginning, that was to slowly define itself in its own terms and develop into a complex sound. There was little of the totality that is seen in later albums, and the keyboards­especially seem limited in scope compared to later efforts. But on the whole, an ex­cellent beginning that went exact)? nowhere on the market. 
So. try again. Time and a Word. The same format: a few . .ttPn-original works surrounded with Jon (changed from the more formal John on 'fes) Anderson-Chris Squire tunes. A bit more ambitious, perhaps. a bit more pretensive, but still well done. While t.li'e tunes for the most part are fairly pleasant, a few melodic lines here and there ·Stand out, most notably from the choruses from short things called "Sweet Dreams" and the title track. 
On to album number three, and a change of personnel: Exit Peter Banks, enter Steve Howe, from Tomorrow, boy wonder guitarist. Described by former Mothers drummer Ainsley Dunsbar as "brilliant­he'll be starting his own group soon," Howe brings a new vitality into the Yes sound. And suddenly, The Yes Album has become one of the biggies, Not the biggest, but much better than the first two. A single is pulled off this one that actually makes it: ...Your Move," a part of the longer "I've Seen All Good People." A deceptively simple tune, one that fortunately hides the Yes complexity on the rest of the album in its popularity. aut no matter; album 

owners know "the thrilling_ soar of "Starship 
Troopers" and the abrupt but. natural shifts 
of motif in "Yours Is No Disgrace.." 
But the real move into the limelight is 

with the next album, last year's blockbuster 
at Notre Dame, Fragile. Adorned with a 
new Yes logo and a fancy new cover artist, 
Fragile showed Yes at their best yet. 
And the reason can be summed in two 
words: Rick Wakeman. While on tour 
keyboardist Tony Kaye became indisposed 
and Wakeman was asked to cover. The 
group and Kaye had had a fallings-out 
recently anyway, mostly about Kaye's 
reluctance to vary his fare from organ with 
periphera) moog and piano, and this tour 
was the turning point for Yes. The group 
was so satisfied with virtuoso Wakeman 
that they dumped Kaye in favor of the five­
keyboard 
And what a result in Fragile! The single, 
"Roundabout" hit the top ten around the 
country establishing Yes with the Top 40 set, 
while the album rose equally quickly, set­
ting Yes firmly in everybody's mind. 
Granted, the album wasn't as smooth as it 
could be, with those five individual pieces 
breaking up the group efforts into isolated 
segments. But with the exception of two of 
those pieces, the songs themselves showed 
where Yes had come: to a place that isn't 
afraid to try new sounds and make them 
part of a whole. 
And finally, the climax of this developing process: Close To The Edge; an album that is nothing short of a masterpiece of modem rock. Made up of only three songs, Close To Tht> Edge is Yes' destiny. There was no place el~e to go. 
The long title track, reminiscient of E.L&P's Tarkus and TuB's Thick As A Brick <with a hint of Days of Future Past), is an incredibly .coherent statement musically. Lyrically, it doesn't make a whole lot of sense. but somehow that doesn't matter: it's not what Anderson says, it's the way the sounds of the words blended into the rest of the musical web. If he has to say "Luther in time," it's because the music needed that kind of "u" sound; who cares if the phrase is nonsensical? And the other side of the album is likewise. In "Siberian Khatru," the total sound calls for a series of short phrases: Anderson supplies them. The same for "And You and l'"s repetition of the title six or seven times. It's the effect that counts. 
Again, the key is keyboards. Rick Wakeman has stretched his musical muscles and now takes on five keyboards (piano, electric piano, mellotron, moog, and organ), as he does in concert, a sight that is fascinating. With the five keyboards, he produces an entire orchestra-like effect, one that very definitely works. 
And work in concert it does, too. The music reaches out, grabs you, assaults you. And you find yourself coming back for more. That's Yes. 


Glee Club Concert
•ateakDu~ 
TIME 

Ride herd on the gang. Make a break for steak. And get a steak break. Rib-Eye Steak, baked po­tato, tossed salad and hot buttered roll. 


Student Union invites you to spend an evening with 
Just $129 YESand special guest
PONDEROSA 
STEAK HOUSE 


Good $2.75 seats and some higher priced seats
52627 U.S. 31 N. 
available through showtime at the ACC Ticket and 
Office (9-5) daily. 

Town & Country 
LINDISFARNE is Britian's best new group -Melody Maker
Shopping Ctr. 

The latest Yes album, Close To The Edge is ~ Fri. and Sat. to 10 P.M. ~ 
~pen 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. Dail~ 
number 5 in this week's Billboard survey.
Washin ton Hall FREE 






[!
• 
r~ 
'T : 
~-was --=•=•...--===•
. .. 
the observer Friday, November 17, 1972
10 

Three viewpoints
r Reverend Spurgeon M. Dunnam, Ill is a minister in the United Methodist Church. He is currently the editor of The Texas MPthodist. a chain of over 100 church 
The Jesus People:
newspapers across seven states. He is also the general manager and editor of the United Ml'thodist HPporter, a newly created national 11ewspaper of the United Methodist Church. 
Rc>v. Dunnam lives in Dallas, Texas. 
what's happening?
Rc>\'c.>rend William Toohey is a Roman 
Catholic priest in the C.S.C. order. He is currently the head of campus ministry at the University of Notre Dame. He is also on the central staff of the Vice-President of Student Affairs and has recently organized a year­
what's in store? 
long program on human sexuality with Fr. Thomas McNally. 
LC'n Biallas is a layman of the Roman Catholic faith. He is currently a professor of ThC'ology at the University of Notre Dame. He is a former C.S.C. priest who left the priC'sthood last spring "to better involve himsdf in his ministry." He is also the first 
C. S.C. priest to leave the order and remain on the faculty of the Notre Dame Theology 
departnH'nt. 


Crasslakes A comment 
jDIIeph abell 
Evangelism: what would make a reporter interested in such a thing as evangelism? Sure, the Jesus freaks are all around and ('Veryb<?<~y sees them spreading their "good news" as if it were somethmg everyone .else had never heard of. And everybody puts up w1t~ some of 1t, scorns some of it, and listens to the rest. So what's mteresting? . 
Last summer. I found out. I live in Dallas, Texas the site of the l.argest convention the Jesus People have ever had. Explo '72 flyers were out and even up here at Notre Dame as early as last J~nuary .. As the sum!Jler bega.~. the eyes of Dallas became more d1lated w1th expectation. And fmally, it was here, or rather, they \\'('re here: all 75,000 of them. 
But I'll have to Clarify that--Campus Crusade for Christ had arrived. ~ill.Bright's organization was in the limelight. and it was fascmatmg how he made sure that nobody stole that limelight. 
The Jesus freaks seemed to have found a certain kind of Jesus 
and refused to <'ven consider any other kind. Bill Bright's Four Laws seemed to be the only laws:Camous Crusade seemed to be the only way to heaven. And that bothered me. The Jesus freaks seemed to be the most confident bunch I've seen in a long time. "Don't worry about things " they said "J<'sus will take care of it; trust in Him." You ~ould hear the t·apital "h". That bothered me. And the Jesus freaks were convinced that they could save you ml.': ar:tybody. ~hey Jeisur~ly ~trolled around, blank grinc; o~ the1r laces. yelhng to the1r fr1ends "Praise the Lord!' and "Marathana. brothers!" and waving their index fingers the "One Way." around as if they were popsicles. And that bothered Ill(', Quite frankly, I got sick of it. The stubborness that Campus Cm~ade was the only means to salvation was frustrating. The <:ontmu~l verbal barrage, trying to convert me on the average of three h.mes ~n hour, was tirmg. The ~asy confidence that ('v.er.ythmg w11l be "taken care of" was disheartening--after all th1s ts the generation that's going to inherit the earth? And as for' their "One Way," many times was I, and many other DaJlasites, ll.'mpted to s~ow th~m "the Other Way," and it sure wouldn't have been an mdex fmger I would have waved! I don't pretend that all Jesus freaks are Hke the ones I met at Explo --I hope they're not--but I sure became disillusioned with th<' moyem~nt. .It was so damn pretentious and flashy when somethmg ltke th1s should have been real and meaningful. 
lknce. the interest in J.esus freaks and the new evangelism in generaL And my conclusions. after Explo '72 Key 73 and talking ~\'ith religious leaders, Protestant and Catholic? I don't know. I JUSt don't know. I side with all three: I can see Len Biallas' odyssey. I know I'm on one, though I don't know where I'm gomg. I cal? see Rev. Dunnam's cycles-evangelism had to come hack sometnne. But most of aU, I can see Fr. Toohey's concern: why a.ren't ~hey do~n.g something about our situation? What is the pomt of JUSt pra1smg Jesus all your life? 
I l'an't buy the kind of Jesus Campus Crusade is peddling. I'm not too su~e I c~n buy the kind the Catholic Pentecostal groups or the Chf:Irtsmabc Renewal groups have either but those are somethmg I'm still not too familiar with. All of them seem so full of gnosticism and plastic that I wonder how anyone could stomach it. A plastic God I don't need-there are enough here on (.'arth. 
by Joseph Abell Managing Editor 
Last in a series 

Only r<'cen.Uy .. large religious gatherings, projects, 
and commumty mvolvements have become prevelant 
m th~ .J<'sus,mov~ment. Events such as the highly 
pubhc1zed Explo 72 and the Billy Graham crusades 
h.a~·~ foc~sed national attention on the religious ac­
t tvlti('S ol youthful Jesus people. How important are 
th('S(' large events and happenings? 
"I'd like to dwell on the word 'happening,"' Biallas 
('Otnm('nted. "A happening is the element of ad­
\('ntur('. and if the element of openness can come into 
th<'ir (youth's) lives through some happening or ad­
\ ('~.tu~e and ~hey ~ecognize that their lives are not just 
suller1~g, ahenahon and anonymity, but a series of 
happ('nmgs, or a story, rather than a narration of one 
facet after another, then I'm all for it." 
lk pointed out one drawback to major events such as 
Ex plo '72. however: possible detraction f!'om an 
O\'{'rly structured plan. 
"To the extent that there's a lot of organization it's going to work against this sort of thing," he said. ' 
But he was quick to add that the effort could take one 
of two ~irections: one like the peaceful, successful 
ha p~('nmg of the Woodstock Pop Festival, or one like 
thl' fatal tragedy at Altamont California during a 
Holling Stones concert. ' 
. B~allas des~ribed long-range efforts like Key 73 
s1m1larly. saymg that they "could go either way." 
"It (K<'y 73) could be a rejuvenation of the ex­
cit<'m('nt of service and fellowship, or it could become 
o\·er-in~titutionalized and stifling," he said. 
Dunnam sees the major evangelistic events most 
imPortantly as symbols. 
"Explo was sybolically significant because so many 
JX'Ople ~~me fro~ so far to increase their knowledge 
and <1b1hty to w•tness the gospel," he said. 
A s<'cond reason for the importance of the events 
according to Dunnam was that they were religious 
<'vents. as opposed to secular ones. 
"Most of the symbols of our times have been secular 
mov<'m~~t~ --very few have been religious," he said. 
II<' cr1t1c1zed the Explo effort for its concentration on 
<I single set of theological ideas. The Campus Crusdade 
for ~hrist. sponsors of Explo '72, "boxes in" the 
poss1ble range of religious expression to that of th(>ir 
own theology, he claimed. 
"The Explo people weren't encouraging the kids to 
~<'~·elop ~heir own faith and understanding and express 
It m the1r own way," he said. 
"What they're doing is completely valid as far as it 
go('s." h<' added, "but it doesn't go far enough." 
Dunnam t'ited the Explo '72 goal as that of taking 
th(' gospel to the world, a goal he described as 
·'not ('Worthy.'' 
"But,'' he cautioned," the question is whether or not . t h('y 're taking the whole gospel." Dunham. also commented on Key 73, pointing up the W('akn('ss m the loose structure. 
"N~'arly ~nyone could participate on his own level," 
h<' sa1d. wh1ch could detract from higher levels of the 
program. 
But he praised Key 73 as "the best approach to 
<'vangelism" because it "recognizes the differences 
lwtw<'cn faiths and accepts all of them." 
"Wh('ther a great deal is accomplished or not <in the 
majur <'vents) is debatable. Much of it is good, but a 
small part of it could cause some harm," he concluded. 
Fr. Toohey again looked to the fruits of the Jesus 
JX'Opl(' for the importance of their giant events. 
"The real significance is Is our country any better 
bC'Cause of this?" he said, emphasizing that the im­
port~nce of the events are the results, both ultimate 
and 1mmediate. 
"<Those results) are somewhat measurable in the 
transformation of the individual who attends them "he 
said. 
Serving the N.D. Student Body Over 4 Years 
Visit Our Attractive Salon featurin Mr. Baron 
award winning stylist in this area 
also Our Adva~ced Lady Stylists 
Ca II for appointments--259-7679 student rates1321 E. McKinley Hwy.--Mish. 
Mon., Tues. &21 2 mi. east of T&C Shopping Center Wed. 

' 

~ ~'S'
Senior Death March ~~ 11(~,\~~ 
Ends at the Alumni Club 
See you there for 
Happy Hour & 1/2 
15~ Beers 
4-5:30 P.M. 


Billy Graham, one of the superstars in the evangelical movement, has been in the business for quite awhile. Blasting out against sin and corruption, he addresses his audiences with "fire and brimstone," championing the cause of Jesus Christ. 
photo by lorry reese, courtesy the do/los morning news 
Another major significance of the events he l)('li<'ves. is the opportunity to hear the word of 'cod, and th<' "call Jesus gave and the warning in that call." If nothing else, he saids the events give more people a ('hance to hear that call. 
What's in the Future':'· 

Th(' future holds three different things for the three spokesmen in the area of evangelism. 
For Dunnam, his cycles of history will continue: 
."Once you've got your middle, then something else w1ll get out of balance, and you've got another movem('nt." 
lk sees two possibilities for the immediate future: that the Jesus people will join the conventional chur­ches and settle down, or that they will form new ('hurches. His personal hope is for them to join and influence the present churches. 
For Toohey, his hopes lie with the ability of Jesus people to turn their love towards pressing social problems. 
"To be converted is to· have a burning desire to l'hange whatever in society is responsible for op­pr('ssion." he believes. "You can't say 'I'm for Jesus,' <tnd not say 'I'm for that little napalmed child in Vi('tnam.' " 
H(' is convinced that the of1}y proof of the Jesus people's true commitment to Jesus is their efforts for society. and he hopes that they will increase those ('fforts. 
"You can't just convert persons, because a truly ('Onvertro person doesn't just convert other persons· th('y convert society." ' 
For Biallas, a lot of newer things are in store. 
"Th('re's going to be a lot of exciting counter-cultural groups ten years from now," he said, and the moon m.yth will be "a thing of the past" for them, for they w1ll have moved on to something farther out. 
"Th<'ir myth will be someplace else. But the im­portant thing is that it will be their own," he said. 
He hopes that the churches in the future will begin to s('(' themselves not as "stagnant, sterile and satisfied with the status quo," but as moving ahead to break down the barriers between people. He also hopes that the Je~us people of today will actively inject them­s('lves mto the churches . 
"If they don't, they're stagnant before they begin," h<' commented. . The subject of evangelism has recently become a last-paced. complex series of evaluations of man, God and J£'~us. ~iscrepancies have appeared, as the ('\'angehst MarJoe has claimed, but for the most part, mod('rn ('Van~elism has succeeded in fulfilling the n<'('ds and ~es1res of hundr~ of thousands of people. Whether th1s rec~nt popularity of Jesus Christ among th(' young ~ple 1s merely a fad or is a genuine longing and graspmg for authentic religious comfort and in­spiration remains to be seen. 
Th(' youth rejoice in their "gladness of the Lord." P<'rhaps t~e discovery of something truely meaningful to them 1s a good reason to rejoice. 
~\/4 \jfl.,,ifjt~ ~ ~....­
..,;,: I ~· ~ I ­
-/ fiE_ 
--;i_t ~­


IIi uu:h::n Vts'f I I • """ 
--------------------------~~~~~~----~~ 
Pre-teaching elective offered next semester 
Once again next semester, the College of Arts and Letters, under the direction of the Collegiate Seminar Program, will offer an elective course dealing with the theory and practice of collegiate education, preparing second semester juniors from any college of the University to eventually design and teach -for credit ­their own college level discussion course. 
In describing the program, Professor Thomas Musial, Associate Director of the Collegiate Seminar, said that 
Welk prize to children 
A gift of $1,000 from the Lawrence Welk Foundation, Santa Monica, Cal., will be used by the Office of Student Volunteer Ser­vices at the University of Notre 
Dame  to  assist  in  financing  
cooperative programs  with  area  
youngsters.  

Rev. David Schlaver, C.S.C, director of the office, said a portion of the gift would be earmarked for paint in the refurbishing of a "Sunshine Room" at the Norther Indiana Children's Hospital. Other sums would be used for field trips and special instructional material for both retarded and exceptional children. 
a bout-30 second semester juniors will be selected for a preparatory course, SEM 421. 
The course will give them the opportunity to reflect upon and analyze what has happened to them as individuals since their freshman year, gain a critical perspective on the strengths and 
weaknesses of their  own  college  
Pducation,  study  some  of  the  
major  problems  of  higher  

£'ducation with reference to a variety of theories, of educatiM, and analyze models of colleges and courses that attempt to put these theories into practice. 
The course is also a preparation for a unique sequel course, SEM 422, that enables students to put theory into practice as actual seminar teachers. In this respect, the preparatory course will help students design their own syllabus for a section of the Freshman Colloquim course, SEM 181. 
The program, Musial explained, is based on the hypothesis that the best way to learn is to assume the role of a teacher. Students who successfully complete SEM 421 will £'nroll in SEM 422 during the following semester as seniors. 
In SEM 422, each student is rl'sponsible for planning and teaching a course which meets the purposes of liberal education as he understands them, and attempts to resolve the special learning problems of freshmen as he bl'comes aware of them through <'xperience. Sections of SEM 181 
Extermination program instituted to halt the roach problem in halls 
St'veral university departments have launched a new program to 
curb  the  roach  problem  in  
r('sidence  halls,  according  to  
Edward  Riley  ND's En­ 

vironmPntal Health and Safety manager. ·' 
Some of the r-esidence halls are now ('Xperiencing a rather severe roach problem. An accelerated <'Xt<'rmination program has been instituted by Maintenence D<'partment in· cooperation with the Environmental Health and Safety office," announces Riley in a recent letter to the Observer. 
Hiley listed factors that en­courage roach problems. He mPntions exposed food, and used furniture as breeding grounds for roaches. He also indicts sloppy food sales .rooms. 
"Poorly maintained and in some eas<'s filthy food sales rooms further compound the problem," writes Riley. 
Appealing to the students to help in the problem, Riley says, " .. .little success can be expected without the full cooperation of the hall students, food sales managers, anc the custodial staff." 
Hiley calls some of the problems "basic sanitation problems" and t·ontf'nds that student help is <'ssl'ntial to solving the roach problPms. 
"Unless we can resolve some of th<'se basic sanitation problems in f('sidence halls, the best exter­mination program in the world will h<' relatively ineffective, and many roaches will continue to die of old age." writes Riley. 
THE NOTRE DAME· SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
announces TRYOUTS FOR John Bowen's AFTER THE RAIN 

Sunda~, Nr,vember 19 at 1:00 p.m. Monday, Nu·rember 20 at 7:00p.m. Callbacks--Tuesday, November 21 at 7:00 p.m. 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM .•.•SAINT MARY'S OPEN TO ALL ND·SMC STUDENTS 
South Bend's Newest 110¥2 N. Main 
1 

THE RED DOOR CLUB' 
says: 

·BEAT MIAMI ·HAVE A NICE TURKEY DAY 
-and be sure to drop in before you leave forhom BEER * WINE * LIQUOR 
Entertainment every 

generally consist of about 8 to 10 volunteer freshmen. All the teaching seniors meet together tach week with a faculty member to whom they are responsible to discuss the problems and possibilities arising from their :section of the FY Colloquim. Seniors earn three credits for their tPaching activities. They may repeat SEM 422 for a second · :semester if they choose. 
Course book due Monday 
The Course Schedule booklet with the courses offered at Notre Dame for the upcoming spring semester will be ready for distribution this Monday, November 20. 
"The schedule' booklet is out <"arlier this year to permit coun­selling before the Thanksgiving break, " says Marc Carmichael, assistant registrar. 
Carmichael mentioned that this ('arlier publishing was made possible through the cooperation of the Obst-rvf"r. 
"We are trying to get it out as soon as possible to eliminate the ;r.oo at pre-registration time," says Carmichael." Doing the book through the Obsf'rver made this possible." 
The RPgistrar's office hopes to t'liminate some of the indecision that causes scheduling hassles by giving the students more time to s<'e their advisors and decide their schedules. 
This year's Course Schedule will not look like any of the previous booklPts. It will be printed on larger sized newsprint instead of the smaller white bond of the past :-;rvPral years. This is the first ~·rar the Obse-rve.r was asked to h<'lp publish the booklet. 
Professor Musial is currently inviting applications for par­ticpation in this program, and what they believe they can con­tribute to . the program. They should also include a word about their own education, and their current grade point average. 
The applicant must include in the letter the names of two faculty mPmbers who can be consulted as referees since recommendations will be necessary to arrive at a final selection of the students who may participate in the program. Letters of application must reach Prof. Musial in the Colle iate Seminar Program office, 346 O'Shaughnessy Hall, on or before November 30. 
Two meetings are scheduled to discuss particulars of this program and to answer any questions that students who are thinking of ap­plying might have. The meetings will be held on Tuesday and Wrdnesday afternoons, November 28 and 29, at 4:15, in room 105 O'Shaughnessy Hall. Seniors who are currently teaching sections of the FY Colloquium will also be present at these meetings to discuss their experience in the program. 

Student Union Asks.: 
TIRED OF SNOW, SLEET, RAIN & HAIL? Head for SUNNY NASSAU 
March 9-16 
Details soon -so Hang Loose 
In the heart of downtown South Bend 

GOOD FOOD AT M ·Steaks ·chops ·ChickeA ·Sea Food Qui &t atmos here -pfeasant surroundings 



CLOSED MONDAYS 
Daily & Sunday 11 am till 9 pm Saturday 11 am till 10 pm 

NOW AVAILABLE AT THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
THE GLORY 
OF 

NOTRE DAME 
It is a volume no Notre Dame fan can be without. It is a volume no football fan can do without. It is the story of Notre Dame. football, covered by the magazine and the writers that were there as each chapter was unfolding. And it is the story of those kids who 
came  up  out  of  the  
railroad  towns  and  
cities  and  farms,  and  

who saw those dreams fulfilled--not only for personal glory, but for The Glory of Notre Dame. 
...$6.95 

also available 
PARSEGHIAN AND NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
by Ara Parseghian and Tom P agna · •••$9.95 

2nd Floor 

NOTRE  DAME:  ITS  
PEOPLE  AND  
LEGENDS  

by Francis Wallace ...Special $1.96 

4 Ill .; ' • I ~· i t • t 6_. ) ..; J t. ·-' .~ J• ,\ 
~------­
Friday, November 17, 1972
the observer
12 

Mitchell discusses psychokinetics 


Mitchell: By feeling a presence of material things, "you can indeed become aware of your own con­sciousness." 
Local artists plan exhibit this weekend 
On Saturday and Sunday, Nov. 18 and 19, from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m., the South Bend Artists Guild will have its first art show at the Guildhouse located at 718 E. La Salle St., South Bend, Ind. 
The show will include sculpture, paintings and drawings which will be offered for sale. Intermittently during the show, the music members of the Guild will play and the writers will have poetry and prose readings. 
The Guild was formed 

..... 
by Pete McHugh he said that we use "very little of many bad effects of science: Staff Reporter our total potential." He described biological warfare, atom bombs, these as nonrational means to and pollution. This he felt knowledge. demonstrates the need for ex­
Imagine concentrating on an 
pansion and use of our con­
object and with no physical contact Science and religion 
He stressed that religion and sciousness which is "the ground of 
or any outside force, being able to 
science are not "mutually ex­both subjective and objective
move that object. Dr.. Edgar D. 
Mitchell, former astronaut and clusive realms of thought" as the thought." Academy of Science stated Concluding the lecture he asked 
sixth man to walk on the moon, 
the audience to "seek to know
described the actual occurrence of recently. Isaac Newton and Albert 
yourselves and God, and serve
such a psychokinetic movement Einstein were mentioned as 
during his lecture on "Con­scientists who saw an enigma humanity." Mitchells' lecture was the first of
sciousness-the illtimate Enigma" behind the physical world which 
a series of lectures sponsored by
at the auditorium of the Center for we would denote as God. 
Recalling his lunar flight he the Arthur J. Schmitt Foundation
Continuing Education last night. Mitchell said that presently described the earth as being a tiny in its Challenges in Science 
associates of his have witnessed blue and white jewel" in the vast Meetings to be presented this year. and recorded the psychokinetic darkness of space. He called this Prior to the lecture, Dr. Emil T. and even of compelling view "a glimpse of 
,.t 
I> 
Hoffman, Dean of the· Freshman Year of Studies, speaking in behalf of the college of science and its student science council, announced that Notre Dame will be the site of the 25th International Science Fair at a date to be announce. 
Dr. Bernard Waldman, Dean of the College of Science, introduced Mitchell and described his broad educational and military training. 
While the lunar module pilot on Apppollo 14, he participated in a mental telepathy experiment with four people on earth. Waldman called the results of this ex­periment "statistically significant." 
moving bonding metallic rings by a man in their West Coast research laboratory. Theirfindin_p;swill be published in a scientific journal in the near future he said. 
Good evening earth people 
"Good eveingin earth people'' was the manner in which Mitchell addressed the capacity audience. He began his talk by asking the audience to participate in a self­awareness experiment. 
Telling the people to relax and concentrate on where they are, he told them to put their awareness to the front of their heads and feel its' presence. Then he told them to move.it to the back, right and left side. He said by feeling a presence you "can indeed become aware of your own consciousness." 
The former astronaut went on to divinity" which "has led me to reestablish my philosophy." 


Another idea that he emphasized was "the illusion of objective versus subjective thought." "To be objective is to be neutral, emotionally uninvolved,'' he said. He felt that the two types of thought are aligned with the subjective often manifested in the concepts of consciousness and self awareness. 
Consciousness can only be studied he said. Though we do not know exactly what it is, we can describe it. Mitchell believes it is a "Necessary and sufficient con­dition for the universe." It is present in all life even in DNA and RNA structures he said. Self­awareness is characteristic of only man, according to Mitchell. 

give his views on the use and misconceptions about science. Science is at its best when it allows man to live harmoniously he said. However, he stated, "Science is not our only way of knowing." 
Citing ESP and intuition as alternative options to knowledge, 
"The feats of science are won­drous to behold" he stated, listing various advances such as the polio vaccine, and the harnessing of atomic energy. They are "a direct result of the objective techmque of science." 
However, he also mentioned the 
WANTED 
Wanted: someone from off­campus to sharP. double in Howard. Now or~ semester. Phone 283-8182. 
Riders needed to Central Penn­sylvania leaving noon Nov. 22. Call 232-5573 
Articles for the second issue of the NOTRE DAME SCIENCE QUARTERLY should be sub­mitted on November 17, in room 329 NSH, or call 7838. 
Need 5 general admission tickets for Miami, call 8680 Bill. 
TYPISTS -needed to volunteer their help during the Red Cross 
Blood Drive Nov. 30 and Dec. 1. Please call Pete, 3412. 
Needed student to fly with two children to (Nov. 21) and-<>r from (Jan 15) Hawaii. Call Peter 288· 4326 or 284-4439. 
Want to trade 8 pm ticket from O'Hare to NO for 10 pm ticket. ,Bob 3246. 
Typing . all types, call Carol 259­2555. 
Desperately need $5.50 tickets for YES. Will pay top dollar. Call John at 6891. 
Any typing done · call 232-01~6. 
Need 3 Miami tickets, call Gary 7864. 
RIDES WANTED 
"1eed Thanksgiving ride to Pc-~'<ersburg, W. Va. Jeff 1040. 
W~r.ted Ride: to N.Y.C., Boston or anywt>ere in Vermont on 
Fr'oay or Saturday Nov. 17 or 1B. Ca!l 234-4547 after 7:30 pm. Will share expenses. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
Need ride to Philly-So. Jersey 
Thanksgiving ride wanted to 
Hotzie's Here,

·Mon. nite-Tues.-Wed. for 
Louisville. Leave 22nd. Jim 8831. 

Notre Dame has reached Nir·Thanksgiving. Contact AI at 1193. 
van a. 

Pay, drive, etc. FOR SALE 
NOTICES
Need ride to St. Louis, Tuesday, Noise makers for sale. Send Nov. 21. Call Glenn, 8595. name and telephone number to 
REWARD-S5 reward offered tor
Box 685 N 0, Indiana 46556. 

original recording by the
ss Ride needed to wash, D.C. Can Pangborn Rootbeer Committee.
leave Tuesday. SS Call Mark, 1967Lotus Elan Coupe-25,000 mi. 
Please call 7253 for information.
1733. After 11 pm. Excellent cond. 52275 -272-1432. 
ND-SMC student tune-up special.
Need ride west on 1-80 to central MGB excellent condition. Best 
New sparkplugs, ·points, con­
Illinois -Dec. 1 or 2, call 8038. offer. Call: 232-2849. 
denser and labor only $21.95 for 6 cyl; 8 cyl. S24.95. Ted's Marathon,Need ride to Tulsa, Okla. Nov, 22. For Sale: 2 YES tix-on the floor. 
1101 S. Bend Ave. Next to
Call Linda 4637. $5.50 each . 8810. 
Nickie's. All major credit cards accepted.
Need ride to Detroit on Nov. 22. For sale -2 studded snow tires 7· Please call Dan at 8810. 35x14 very good condition $35. 272· 
See the Irish Swimmers compete
1428. 

in the 200 lap marathon Sunday,
Need Thanksgiving ride to 
Nov. 19th 6-10 pm. AdmissionOmaha. Can leave Nov. 20. 6970. 125 LB. weight set and metal Free · Rockne pool.
press bench $35. 283-7128. Need ride to Turkey in In­
Ski Aspen Jan. 6th-13th. $103.00.
dianapolis Tues. or Wed. 8573. 2 section 10 $5.50 seats for YES. 
525 deposit to Fr. Mertensolto by
Call 8283. 

Nov. 21. Rector: Lyons Hall.
Need Thanksgiving ride to Pitt. 
Hurry! Few spaces available!
Monday or Tues will pay, call Joe 
LOST AND FOUND 
3368. 

GSU meeting Friday, Nov. 17, 12 
LOST: Red, white and blue 

noon 127 Nieuwland Science Bldg.
Girl desires ride to Peoria, 
collapsable umbrella. Call 8029. 

Illinois. Sunday Nov. 19 call 6865. HELP the helpless unborn, with
Lost: SMC 1973 class ring JMF, 

time, money, or both. Right-toNeed ride to Princeton, New 
rail 4293. 

Life, Inc. 233-4295.
Jersey for Thanksgiving. Phily or vicinity. Will pay call Tom 7852. 
PERSONALS 

Cleveland Club Thanksgivir.g BussesNeed ride to O'Hare Friday Nov. 
Thank you lOB Flanner for a 

Leave Tues. night and Wed. af.
17. Call Joe at 7471 or 232-5633. 
Great Birthday. 

ternoon. Call Gary 1774.
Paula 

Need ride for one to Milwaukee. I can leave In the afternoon, !W:Jn. BROWNSVILLE STATION, THE
Where's Dave's Iittle brother? 

RASPBERRIES AND BANG IN CONCERT, WEDNESDAY 
20 Nov. Call Paul 8276. 
Carol:

Need ride east to New England. NOVEMBER 22 AT 8 pm AT
Don't wear your contacts home, 

MORRIS CIVIC. WHY GO HOMECan leave Tues 21 or Wed. 22. Will 
you rr.ignt loose them again. 

FOR THAN KSG IV ING?
pay. Please. Call Tom 6160. 
Ray 

TICKETS $4.00(ADVANCE), s.uo (AT THE DOOR). ALSO.
Need ride to N.Y.C. area. Leave To Mv Dear Bonnie, 
CHEECH AND CHONG IN
Wed. noon, Chris 3613. 
Welcome to Notre Dame, Hope 

CONCERT THURSDAY, 
you have a happy weekend, You

Wanted: Ride to NOVEMBER 30 AT 7:30 pm.
were missed very much,

PHILADELPHIA, will help with FOR INFORMATION OR
Love, Joe 

gas and tolls. Call 234 4547 ~ICKETS FOR BOTH CON­ar.ytmie after 8:00p.m. Cc:n leave M. Z.: YCUR GAME IS UP. CERTS, CALL 8253. 
a:1 \IT;r.e. 
() w. 

Future CPA's -Learn how to prepare for the CPA exam. 
Becker CPA Review course. Call Collect Indianapolis 317-547-9971. 
PITT CLUB THANKSGIVING BUSES. Buses leave from the continuing Center of Education Tuesday at 5:00 and Wednesday at 1:00 -Buses depart from the 
Pittsburgh Greyhound Bus Terminal Sunday at 5:00. Limited room on the Wednesday bus only. For; additional information, call Jim 8371 or Jeanne 5194. 
Attention N D students! Need money for Thanksgiving vacation? Borrow from Morrissey Loan Fund 11:15-12:15 Monday-Friday. Basement of LaFortune. 
Organizational meeting and work session Sunday Nov. 19 3:00 pm for anyone interested inb being a ski instructor at Royal Valley Ski Resort, N. Main Street, Buchanan, Michigan. Phone 616­
695-3847.  .  
MEN  WOMEN  
WORK  ON  A SHIP NEXT  

SUMMER! No experience required. Excellent pay. Worldwide travel. Perfect summer job or career. Send $2.00 for information. SEAFAX Box 2049-IG, Port Angeles, Washington 98362. 
Words 1da 2da Jda 4da 5da 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11·15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 us 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30-2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 4¢-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 

Friday, November 17, 1972 the observer 
ND icers visit Pioneers, defending WCHA champs 
h)' Stan llrankar BrucP Affleck <frosh defenseman Sehafer and Les Larson will from N<•lson. B.C.)," Smith added, cont inu<' with the sophomore line. Notre Dam<' will run up against a "so hP should be able to help im­
"With that double win over
major hazard in their hopes for pro\'<' th<'ir defense." 
1\lil'higan behind us, our attitudeW\MA supremacy this weekend (;oaliP Ron Grahame, who co­for this WP£'kend has been really
whPn they travel to Denver to face <'a p: a ins their season's edition of good." Smith commented. "The:h<' d£'fending conference cham­lh<' Pionl'l'rs with Hays, is a id<'a of having the personnel topion Pion£'ers in a four-point series <'apablP goaltender. as he posted a handl<• the joh is in our minds.
at th£' Iknver Ice Arena. ::.5 goals-against average and !\ow. it's just a matter of putting it 
cam<' up with :l0.3 saves per game.
Fourt£'£'n lettermen return from :o liSP." Coach Murray Armstrong's 1971-72 NotrP Dam<' will return all-time squad that finished with a 27-11-o h•ading scor<•r John Noble for his lknv<'r and Notre Dame have 
first action of the season. The nwt <'ight timl's in history, with
rPcord. and Irish coach "Lefty" Smith acknowledges the prowess s<•nior <'<'ntrr from Toronto, On­l<lst sPason's 7-2 opening game of th£' high-scoring Denver ! a rio. who has been out of the playoff loss the only runaway. 
Four of the games have been
\'<'1 erans. "Even though they lost lim•up with a leg injury. topped \"k V<•nasky to Los Angeles and lrbh point-scorers last season with d('dd<•d by a goal, with the only Tom P(•luso to Chicago <both HI goals and 42 assists for 61 points, Irish :riumph coming in a 4-2 NIILl, th<•y still have a lot of and will take over the playmaking '<'rdict at the ACC in February of 
s<·on·rs to lead them." <'horPs b('tW('en high-scoring I!l7 I. wing('rs Eddie Bumbacco and Ian
l'<'h' McNab. the third-leading 
Williams. WCHA Standingsseon•r in the conference last year 
Paul HPgan will move back to Tum ... ., L Pts. ra· ra
with 51 points <65 overall). returns [h•nn•r 0 !I 10 5
<"<'lll<'r th<' sN~ond line for D'Arcy ., ;
as do \"t't£'ran centers Rob Palmer \1 tchn:;m Stdlt! 0 !I II
1\t•at ing and freshman Pa't \or1h [lakota l I 6 ~ti 19
114-25-:19) and Ed Hays <12-32-44). .,
1\,;oyitl.ki. a switch that Smith says \utrt• D<lonl' ., 0 ~ J:l i 
Sl<lr dd'mseman Mike Busniuk \ltl'hll!ilO Tt'l'h 0 ., ~ II M
''\\ill hahmc<' out the scoring
has mo\'ed to the front line, so the Wtsl'unstn I ., II IU 
ability of our lines." Three sophs ('ulnrado l'ullt'gt• :l ., !II ~~ 
l'ionP<'rs won't be at a Joss for !li
\ltl'hll,:<lfl I 3 IIi
"ill skat<' for the third unit--Pat .,
points. \ltnnt•.,nla It (I 5 10
('onro~· <'<'nt<'ring forM ike Dunphy ···I
\ltnn ·Duluth 0 ~ II I~ Th<• dPf<'ns£' in a question mark .md Hay lkLorenzi. 
for :h<' Pion£'ers. With starters Tlw lnsh also will continue the W rrkf'nd St•rlt-s 
\ntrt• Danw Jt Th·nwr
1\1 ik<• Christie and Ross Woodlev "liYI'-man'' squads that Smith has 
\!wht'.!<ln Statf' at :O.Hnnt'Stlta
graduat<•d and Busniuk switched to institutPd this~·£'ar. Bill Nyrop and \orll fl<~kota at :\ltnn -Duluth a forward. the onlv blueliner with S!P\'(' Curry will b<> on defense with <·olnrado Collt'gr at \\ l~l·nnstn 
\ltrlltgan Treh at \ltt·h•gan
solid gam<' <:Xperience is !\ohh•'s line. Hill C'reen and Mark sophomort' Bob Young. "Denver S!t•inborn will work with Regan, did g<•t om• of the top recruits in 1\t·at ing ;md Novitzki. and Ric Individual Statistics 
Plavrr Gms G A Pts P-~1 Bumbacco. w .......~ 9 !I 17 1·2 Wtlhams. w . . . . . . .4 8 li 14 S-10 kf'gan. r . .. .. .. . . 4 6 7 13 1·2 rurry. n .... ... .4 o !i ~ 9-t!l Syrop. d . 4 0 !l 'l 4-!1 Gret>n. d .. ..4 o a ~ ().0 
Irish swimmers stage 
fund raising marathon 
Schafer. !I . . . .4 2 0 2 4-S Conroy. c . . 4 0 :? 2 3·9 Not r(' Dam<>'s varsity swimming quart<•rs in South B<>nd over this Matson. w.. .. . .4 I 1 2 ().0 
Stt>tnbom. d . . . . . .... 4 0 1 1 ().0
!<•am will hold a swim marathon \Par's s<'m<'l:itrr break, but ehe 
Dt>Lorenzr w .......3 1 0 I 5-l.l !his Sunday from 5-9 p.m. in the tH'W facilit iel:i will require three Cunha. r ........... 4 0 I I 1·2 Dunphy.w ...~ 0 0 0 H
HocknP M<•mnrial Pool. 'imPs th<' amount of money needed 
Kt>allng. w .4 0 ,1 0 1-2
Th<' swimmt>rs are aiming for a in past ~·pars. ' Larson. d .. 4 0 0 0 t.:.! 
non-slop. Pndurance ('(fort of 200 Th<' marathon won't be the Bonk. d . . . 4 0 0 II ().0 Tardani. w ..:! 0 0 II ().0
laps oft?(' pool~ a distance of 5,000 swimnwrs' only fund-raising 
Novitzkr. d . . 2 0 0 0 0.0 
~·ards. or two and one-half miles­projPct. Th<' !Pam has also been Israelson. w . . . I 0 0 0 0.0 and. in r('furn. their sponsors have N D Totals . . .. .4 27 -11 fill 3i·80
opPrating hot dog stands and 
Opp 7otals . .. ..... 4 19 33 52 41-90
agrP<>d :o giv<> <'ach swimmer a 
sPlling programs and peanuts Power Plav Goal~-t"; D. 12 of 26,p<•nny. <1 nicke 1. or whatever, for lwforP NI>'s home football games. ~ :!%: Opp. li·or 24. 33% Shortllandt>d Goals-~ D. 3. Opp. o
<'ach bp h(' swtms. NI>'s swimm<'rs will donate a 
GoaltendE-rs Gms GA 1\\'g SavesE<tch tall the NO swimmers have pPrcf•n:ag<' of the money earned to Kronholm . . ...... 2 5 2;; 48 
!riPd :o raise money to continue !h<' program at the Logan Center. Cathcart . . . . . . 2 14 7.0 61 
N.D. Totals ........4 19 4.75 t09
th<•ir training over the Christmas Tht' tl'am-:hrough the Dolphin 
Opp. Totals . ;.. : •. , .... 4 27 6. 7:i 1'!9
Brt'ak and to help support the Club-has aided the Center for l.ogan CPnt('r. In past years they many years. and it is not un­
Buses to O'Hare for Thanksgiving 
Some Seats Still Left 
leave Circle Wed. at 1 :30 
Sign up at Travel Bureau 
·l 

'I HOUIISr 
MON • TUM -ntUl -Rl f AM 5r30 I'M WID • SAT 9 AN. 12 NOON 


aMUUrf Wt'lerACI.I

RoGERS 
SEIYICI ALL f\11 DR."S PIIISCIIPTIONS HONOIK

Optical e.H 
289-7109

lOGO A1WEU • OWNII 
s H u L A 'S 
Miami Hurricanes (a lot of Hot Air)
H H 
prepare for the storm. 
OUR FORECAST IS CLEAR-­
u u
IT'S TIME TO MAKE IT TO: 
L 
L 
~te C/u~ 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD

A A
NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
Phone 683-4350 

s HU L A 'S 
haw also <'nded their Christmas common for team members to give ,·acations <'arlv. and have had to up their free time to work with the pay additional.room and board for children at the Logan pool. 
Get your heads 
! h<' us<' ot llniversitv facilities. Anyone interested in con­Th<' swimmPrs have an op­tributing should contact Jim Kane portunity to use excellent living (3414) or John Balthrop 0740. 
together. ­
Watch the game, 
From one beer lover to another. 
UP CLOSE 
Special1488 
7x35MM binoculars. 

• 
360 ft. field of view at 1 ,000 yards 

• 
Fully coated and polished optics 

• 
Carrying case and straps included 


Washable Acrylic stadium robe -5.99 
JCPenney 
We know what you're looking for. JCPenney, South tend, Open Dairy 9:30 to 9:00, Saturday 'til 6:30, Sunday 1 2:30 to 5:30. ______, 


.....----.-~--~~~~~=----~;-:-:-""'::":":'~::-:-:-:-:-:::=------------~ --­
J4 the observer Friday, November 17, 1972 
NO-Miami closes '72 horne slate 
f;' 
l ~. ( 
\ 
as coach Ara Parseghian point out 
r 
by .Jim Donaldson to his squad, "Everything isSports Editor 
t 
contingent upon beating Miami Notre Dame and Miami clash this Saturday." 
l 
Saturday afternoon in Notre Dame D£>spite a mediocre 4-4 record, 
Stadium and, although both clubs the Hurricanes of coach Fran 
will be sure to have their minds on Curci are a solid ball club, boasting 
l 
the matters-at-hand, it's likely that a strong running game and a quick visions of soft Southern climes will defense. After losing their first he flitting through their heads. three games, the Hurricanes won After a glimpse of Indiana's four in a row, defeating Tulane, 
• November weather most of the Houston, Army and Nevada <Las llurrican athletes will probably be Vegas), before bowing to arch­<mxious to return to the warm, rival Tampa, 7-0, last Saturday. sunny skies of Miami. The Irish "Miami was coming along well too are dreaming of Miami, but for until they were shutout by Tam­an (•nt irely different reason. pa." Parseghian noted. "Now 
Victory over the Hurricanes thl'y'll be even tougher because of tomorrow is virtually certain to having lost and being in a 'bounce­insurl' Notre Dame of a spot in the back' situation." 
Orange Bowl game held New "Th£>y can move the football," \"('ar's night in Miami, annually Parseghian continued, "and their om• of the nation's major bowl r<'cord is misleading-they gave gam£>s. It has been strongly hinted TPxas a tough battle <losing 23-10) that Nebraska would be Notre and then beat Houston and Army in Dam<''s opponent in the Orange a convincing manner (33-13 and 28­
Bowl. 7, resp£>ctivelyL Don't forget, they The Irish are naturally anxious gave us a struggle last year in test their skills in such a Miami." Notre Dame defeated the 
:0 

pr£>stigious bowl against the Hurricanes last season 17-0, after pow£>rful Cornhuskers, national l<'ad.ing ..1,ust 3-0 a_t halftime. . champions the past two years, but, . Mmmt s of~ensrve s~rength hes 
m an explosive runnmg game. 
Jim DonaI d s o n ===================================================:;=================================================: 
The Irish Eye 
:::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:~:=:=:=:=========:=========:::=:::=:======; FootbaII picks 
Every game is important in college football. A team can never have a "letdown", no matter who it's playing. Just look at last Saturday's games, in which previously unbeaten Ohio State was stunned by Michigan State, Louisiana State suffered its first loss, at the hands of undefeated Alabama, and Nebraska barely escaped a setback against solid, but unheralded, Iowa State, settling for a 23-23 tie. As it's been so often said, any team can beat another on a given day. Trite, but true. 
The nation's top teams figure to be on their guard this week, however. All of the major bowls will be extending bids sometime after six o'clock Saturday night and none of the major bQwl contenders wants a suprise loss tomorrow to spoil their hopes for a happy New Year. Alabama, Oklahoma, Nebraska, Penn State, L.S.U., Auburn and Notre Dame are all in the running for spots in the major bowl games and all of them will be in action tomorrow, trying to improve their credentials. 
Since Tht' Observer won't be publishing next week because of the 
Thanksgiving vacation, the selections for both this Saturday's and next week's games will be made in this column, 25 choices in all. 
H£>re they are: 

Notre Dame over Miami <Fla.) --The Hurricanes have the scent of oranges 'on their uniforms and the aroma ought to bring out the best in :he Irish. P£>nn Stat~ over Boston College ---The Nittany Lions are the best team in the East. 
Tennessee over Mississippi ---This has been a disappointing year for :he R£>bels and the Volunteers aren't going to help Ole Miss morale one bit. 
Texas over Texas Christian --The Longhorns have their eye on yet another Cotton Bowl appearance. 
Oklahoma over Kansas--No problem for the Sooners. 
Ohio State over Northwestern..:_ Not even the SPCA can stop the wildly angry Buckeyes from dismembering the 'Cats. Nebraska over Kansas State---The Cornhuskers don't figure to be in a real friendly mood, either. 
Auburn over Georgia--Playing at home gives the Tigers an edge here. 
West Virginia over Syracuse ---The Mountaineers have a score to settle with the Orangemen. Colorado over Air Force --Look for a Buffalo stampede in this pairing of intrastate rivals. 
Michigan over Purdue--They're smelling roses in Ann Arbor. 
Delaware over Bucknell--No one can dispute the Blue Hens' claim to the small college national title. 
Southern Cal over UCLA--The Trojans haven't beaten their crosstown rivals since 1969. A win here would give them revenge -and a Rose Bowl b<'rth. 
G<'orgia Tech over Navy -The Yellowjackets plan to spoil the Middies' hopes for their first winning season since 1967 
Upset of the Week: 

Missouri over Iowa State-The Tigers have been shocking "better" teams all season. The Cyclones may get blown out of Columbia. No\'embf>r 2:\rd or 25th Harvard over Yale (25) --The Crimson will have red faces if they don't beat the EJis in "The Game". 
L.S.U. over Florida (25) --The Gators can't whip the Tigers, not even in their home "swamp.. of Gainesville. Purdue over Indiana (25) --The Hoosiers will kick the Old Oaken Bucket. 
Missouri over Kansas (25) -This closes out the '72 campaign for the Tigers, who are much happier than they were after last year's 1-10 season. 
PE'nn State over Pittsburgh (25) -The Nittany Lions ought to finish up 
10-1, Pitt, 1-10. 

Nebraska over Oklahoma (23) -A win here would go a long way 
toward restoring the badly hurt Comhusker pride. 
Dartmouth over Penn (25) -IfDarmouth gets by Cornell on the 18th, 
the Big Green can wrap up another Ivy League title with a victory over 
the improved Quakers. 

T£>xas over Texas A & M (23) -They just don't make Longhorn ­
Aggie games like they used to. 

Arizona State over Arizona (25) --After a Sun Devils triumph Saturday 
night in Tempe, the sun won't be shining Sunday in Tucson. 
Upset of the Week: 

Ohio State over Michigan (25) ---Presuming that the Wolverines get by 
Purdue, they'll come into Columbus undefeated and ranked no worse 
than third in the country. The Buckeyes would love to spoil Michigan's 
p<>rfect season and write their own Rose Bowl tickets in the proqess. 
Last Week: lOof 14,1 tie .700 Season't pet: 109of 149,1 tie .730 

llt iiizing a pair of big backs, Chuck Foreman. a 210-pound All­Am<'rican candidate. and Tom Smith (218), the 'Canes can grind out th£> yardage. Foreman is the elub's top rusher with 484 yards and Smith has gained 391 yards rushing. Quarterback Ed Carney ean also carry the ball, having rush<•d for 115 yards this fall. 
Whm the Hurricanes go to the air. Foreman is again the man thPy look for. The multi-talented hack has more than twice as many pass r£>c<'ptions as anyone else on th<' t£>am. making 23 grabs, good for :l08 yards. Split end Witt Beck­man is the number two receiver \\'ith 11 catches. 
Carn£>y. a sophomol'e who start£>d the v£>ar as the 'Canes third-string quarterback but has mowd up because of injuries, is only a fair passer, completing just 
5:l of 124 attempts for two touch­downs. Ill' has been intercepted t'ight times. 
And. if the Irish play pass d(.•fense as well as they did last \H'<'k. when they bombed the Air Force Academy's highly-touted Hich Haynie to only eight com­pletions in 25 attempts and in­t£>rcepted four passes, the 'Canes may have real difficulty moving th£> ball through the air. 
Notre Dam£' switched out of its normal 4-4-3 defensive alignm.ent last W('('k into a 4-3-4 in order to b£>tter cope with the Falcons' dangerous passing game and the rC'sults of the switch were out­standing. 
"Anytime you hold a team that is averaging 36 points a game to just on£' touchdown <the Irish beat the Air Force, 21-7), it's pleasing," P&lrseghian said. 
"Without question, I think the alignm£>nt switch aided us a great d£'al," he continued. "After our IX'rformance against Navy <the Irish gave up 17 first downs 
Londergon, Neuville 
claim doubles crown 
K<'vin Londergon and Tim N(•uville claimed the ND doubles tennis open with a 6-4, 6-2 win over the team of Jeff Thompson and Tom Birsic. 
The finals pitted the Blue and Gold division champions, with Neuville and Londergon representing the Gold division on :he strength of their 6-3, 6-3 victory over Don Wendelin and Jim Paladino. 
This set the stage for the final round, which was played at the AC'C. The score of the final match­-6-4, 6-2--was not indicative of the t•aliber of play. Many deuce gam£>s were involved, and Neuville and Londergon won primarily on :he strength of their strong ser­ving. 
The victors, by winning the finals in straight sets, finished the· tournament without losing a set. 
In soccer, Alumni will play Off­Campus I for the championship :his Saturday. Off-Campus t which has yet to allow a goal, lost last week to Alumni (by default) il't the double-elimination tourney1 
passin~ to the Middies) and lmck in r£>cent y<'ars, and he is n•alizing that we were up against nin·l~· complim£>nted by powerful llayni£' and some fine receivers lullbaek Andv Huff, who has 
:hat had caught 17 touchdown gaint>d 467 yards thus far. The pass£'s, W<' felt it necessary to Irish haVl' six other backs, im-rPase our speed in the secon­quartPrbaek Tom Clements, dary. WP did that by switching to a l>c•wan. Gary Dim inick lour-baek d£'fensive coverage and .<'it'szkowski. Wayne Bullock and using more variations and the set­Bt'st. who have 'gained over 100 up worked \'<•ry w£>11." .'ards thus far. 
l\1ik<' Townsend was the top lksid£>s being a fine runner (376 pl'rform('r for the Irish defense \ards l, Cl(•mmts has done a sound int('r<'Ppt ing three Haynie passe~ job as a pass£'r in his sophomore :o: i(• a Notre Dame record for pass :o-('ason. <'ompl£'ting fifty per cent of intt•rceptions in a game. The his att<'mpts 161 of 122) for four junior dd'ensive back has swiped ! ouchdowns. :-;ix pass£'s in th£> last three games, 
Split t'nd Willie Townsend (16st'n•ral of those thefts coming on n'Ct'pt ions l and tight end Mikeaerobatie grabs. 
<'rmm'y (14 grabs l are Clements'Although hampered by a number lavoritP n•cPivPrs.
of fJU£'stionable penalties, Notre 
Dame's offense accounted for 386 "I've b('<'n very pleased with the !otal yards against the Air Force, ~wrformam'<' of the offensive team ;md with the return of halfback :his fall," praised Parseghian. Darryll D('wan. fullback John "Thpy'vp shown great im­<'iPszkowski and freshman prO\'PmPnt over the teem of a year 
sp!'<'dst£>r Art Best from the in­ago." jur£>d list, the Irish may be able to <'<'rtainly, an impressive of­g<'t lh<'ir potent attack in high gear ll'nsivp showing against the tomorrow. 
llurricanrs would enhance Notre 
Eric Pmick leads Notre Dame's Damp's bowl chances. And the rush<'rs with 666 yards, one of the Irish. like the 'Canes, would like lop outputs by an Irish running 'ery much to go to Miami. 
Mike Creaney nmmnmu1mmumm•mwmm1mu 

'lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllmn11111m11nmThe first time .·~ Four years of memories collected dust until this weekend, when the fir~t of many "last times" approaches the class of '73. The years past qmcker than I would have believed, or in retrospect, quicker than I had wanted them to. Saturday against Miami will be the last time that all the s~nio~s ,wi~l be in the Notre Dame stadium as players representing the Ftghtm lrtsh, and corny or not, I'm sure a real tear will pass my cheek. It doesn't seem like three years ago that Theismann and Gatewood were household names, and yet it was. It doesn't seem like three years ago that two scared stiff sophomores ran onto the field in Evanston Ill. to play the Wildcats of Northwestern University, and yet it was. John Dampeer and I started that game against N.U. three years ago, and today, some thirty games later, we find it hard to remember where all the time has gone. Playing tackle and tight-end for three years alongside of £>ach other, we've seen every defense and blocked every blitz so often, that you'd be hard pressed to find one we haven't seen. And it evern seems to have gotten to the point that if John or I don't recognize the dE:'fense, invariably, it means that they've lined up wrong. This is the last game_Dampy and I will play together for Notre Dame; he's been a great captam and a great friend, and I'll miss the times we've spent together. But after Saturday, one more collegiate game and it's all ov~r; all th~ pa~n and heartaches, all the sweat and joy, all the friend­ships and victories of football, all the feelings that can never be recap­tured, all the times we can never make the same... wish and try as we might. Some of the names won't be so familiar this Saturday, but these are the guys who have labored for the same four years behind the scenes not sc_ori~g touchdowns or getting their pictures in the paper, but 'con­tributmg as ":luch to our team victories as anyone else: Joe Borbely, Jim B~lger, Ed F1ber, Denny Gutowski, Walker Holloway, John Mariani, Dan 0 Toole, Tyrone Robinson, Tom Wright, to name a few. Mark Brenneman, Tom Devine, Greg Hill, Steve Niehaus, and Greg Szatko, won't be :.Jble to suit up for our home finale, but their's is in the future. Pat Steenberge, Jom Roolf, Bob Johnson, Tom Freistroffer will all be watching from the sidelines too, but their's is the added grief of not having another chance, another season to play. Their personal season ended in some cases, before ours even began. This is a great bunch of guys and I take my hat off to them. As I run off the field after the Miami game for the last time, I think I'll keep my chin strap and not give it to some little kid as I've done 15 times before. For this is my last time, my own moment. And as I run through thE' goal poasts for the last time, they too will close behind me forever as a football player for Our Lady's school, and so I'll take my hat off to her too-and somehow cherish my moment, and quietly wipe away the tear. 
--lt(t ~'C:lf 




Friday, November 17, 1972 the observer 
15 SMC, NO women 
set tennis tilt 

On Friday, November 17, 1972, Saint Mary's College tennis team and the women of the University of Notre Dame will participate in a tennis match, the first of its kind for the two schools. 
Starting at 8:00 p.m. at the Mishawaka Racquet Club near Edison and Hickory Streets, the competition will consist of six singles matches and three doubles matches. The public is invited; admission free. 
This match has been arranged by Reverend Edward J. Reidy, a member of Saint Mary's College Campus Ministry and the University of Notre Dame assistant tennis coach. 
Saint Mary's College will ;next meet Valparaiso University, Valparaiso, Indiana. 
Tix distribution 

Notre Dame and St. Mary's ~tudents who purchased season basketball tickets may pick them up at the Box Office, second floor of the Athletic and Convocation C'1:-nter beginning next week, an­nounced Donald Bouffaard, ACC Sl\1C's Theresa Sarmina, along with ( L to R) Don Silinski, Garyticket manager. 
Novak. and Digger Phelps, check early contributions to ND's 2nd Tickets can be picked up next annual charity basketball game.
Monday and Tuesday, November 20 and 21 or the following Monday 
Digger reopens for charity
and Tuesday. November 27 and 28. The box office is open from nine to 
The Second Annual Student Last year the donations gath.ered five. including the noon hour. Charity Basketball game will be at the game aided the Notre Dame upperclassmen, h('ld Monday, Nov. 20 at 8:00 p.m. Thanksgiving celebrations of over 
Grad Students, Law Students and 
200 families. People are still 
THE SRORT
Married Students must present the Admission is fifty cents or a 
n('eded :o transport the donated 

n'Ceipt issued when the ticket was donation of a canned good. The 
goods after the game. Anyone
paid for at our Ticket Office. game will be an intrasquad battle 
int<.>rested in helping distribute the 

SCENE, INC.
Notre Dame freshmen and St. f('afuring the best talents of the 
donated canned goods can contact 
Mary's students, who ordered by Fighting Irish basketball team 
Muffet Foy <4028) or AI Sondej 
2314 South Bend Ave Phone 272-9171
mail. must present their ID cards. coached by Digger Phelps. <8726). 


.:·. 

In conjunction with the Notre Dame Volunteer Services Thank~g;v;ng~Basket Drive· 
. . .· . . . . . . . . ·.· 

The Student Union Social Commission<. 
presents 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .·. . . . . . . ..· ··: . 
ANNE of ·the THOUSAND )liJ~WS>. :. . . .. . . . . . ·.· . . .--::' 
only 
25~ 
.

. .· . . . . . 
ALL. admission monies will.be:used to distribute 
.. ':''•: .:·:·.:··. . . . . . : . . . . . .::::'· . _-: _.· . 
Joodto the underp~ivileged on.Thanksgiving 
MONDAY 6 & 10 pm ENG:·AUD. 


COME TO THE MOVIE BEFORE OR AFTER 
N.D. CHARITY BASKETBALL GAME 
-··----~~.---------------­
------··~~· 
,' 

---------------------~----~ 
1 6 the observer Friday, November 17, 1972 
And the cainpus bids 
•

a grlln 
farewell 
to vacationing students 









