On The Inside 
A look at University Press ...page 3 The Crypt record shop returns ...page 14 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII, No. 3 Friday, September 8, 1972 

('O-[l>UCATfOH? JT,S RtD•tULOUS 
1TtAT~ "WifA.T 1 TH•NK. 6lR.J..S OH CAMPUS-"BIG J)EAL. 7HEr' loe>K WAl..Sii AWAY FRoM U.S! IT WA.S 
MoJt£ TUAN A HAlL, ,,-WAs oUR. HOfi1E. ~EY'VE C.ROWl»£1> THE FR..£.SH11E.N "1001 AN~ FoJt WHA_T ?! 
WE ''IE ALWAYS HAD GJRL~ AT SI\INT MARY~ ANYWAY! 
..• BUT '{OIJ I(NOW' 1 GUESS A 
BVllDlilG- IS  JU.ST  A  BUILD IN&.  
AN!)  A  I.I'T2;.E  CR.OtAIDINt;.  NEVER.  
TlEALLY  KILLE:P  ANY1JO:D'(  - ANI>  

AFTER. ALL , WE MUSr THJ~ K 0 F TJ.IE FulvRE · · · · · · 
j 1 
j 
~
Coeducation comes to Notre Dame ... see pages 
...--------------­
the observer Friday, September 8, 1972
2 

warld briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Munich-The West German police Thursday strongly defended their unsuccessful attempt to rescue nine Israeli Olympic team hostages from Arab terrorists in Munich Tuesday night and asserted that the German sharpshooters assigned to the task were outnumbered. 
Lydda, Israel-Ten of the slain members of Israel's Olympic delegation were brought back to Israel from Germany for burial, and were honored at formal State funeral ceremony at Tel Aviv airport. It was an emotional and, at moments, even angry ceremony that typified the reaction in Israel to the attack by Arab terrorists in Munich. 
Beirut-An Israeli armored patrol supported by Helicopters struck across the Lebanese border in search of Palestinian commandos. A Lebanese spokesman said two Israeli forays in company strength took place near the village of Yaroun in hilly zone of vegetable gardens and olive groves in southern Lebanon. The Israeli troops searched houses and set off an explosion before withdrawing two hours later, the spokesman said. 
Washington-James R. Hoffa, former President of the Teamsters Union, planned to leave Wednesday night for Hanoi in an attempt to bring about the release of some American prisoners of war, but he canceled the trip, at least temporarily, Thursday morning. Hoffa's lawyer and White House officials disagreed on whether the trip had the Nixon Ad­ministration's approval. 
St. Croix, Virgin Islands-Authorities conducted the largest manhunt in the history of the Virgin Islands to find the gang of bandits who shot to death eight persons at Fountain Valley GQlf Club in St. Croix. The eight dead included four golfers, whose identities were withheld, but who were said to be two married couples from Florida who were on vacation. The others killed were employees of the golf club. 
Washington-L. Patrick Gray III, the Acting Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, has departed from the nonpolitical tradition of his predecessor, the late J. Edgar Hoover, by making a series of speeches that follow key points of the political line of the Nixon Administration. In one of the departures from the Hoover tradition, Gray is said to be putting less emphasis on crime statistics than Hoover had. 

an campus taday 
12: 15--meeting  lnplrg,  lnplrg  office,  
lafortunelstudent· center.  
7:00--meeting  john  brademas,  nd-smc  

committee for mcgovern-shriver, library auditor lum. 
8:00 
& 10:00--movie walt until dark, zagran's zlnema west, flanner. 

8:00 
& 10:00--movie two lane blacktop, engineering auditorium. 


saturday 
8:00 
& 10:00--movie two lane blacktop, engineering auditorium. 

8:00 
& 10:00--movie cat ballou, zagrans zinema west, flanner. 


2:00, 7:00, 9:30, & midnight--movie, little big man, k of c hall. 
sunday 

afternoon--concert chose11 few, howard park. 
2:00, 7:00, 9:30 & midnight--movie little big man, k of c h a I I . 
4: 00--picnic ella, holy cross hall. 

at nd-smc 
Library undergoes facelift 
by Bill Sohn The reorganization is the result from sky-rocketing costs of books Observer Staff Writer of a careful study made last year and journals and from operational 
Returning students and faculty by a task force of the Library deficiencies which have in the past will find notable changes in the Faculty guided from time to time resulted in loss of these materials layout of the Memorial Library by the University Faculty Library or in serious inconvenience to the this year. The first two floors of the Committee. The public ·service user. Also at issue was the in­Library -the public floors -have functions of the Library were creasing need to restrict the use of been rearranged to form a examined, many difficulties of the Library's facilities to Periodical Center and a Reference operation and cost discovered, and registered Notre Dame and St. and Bibliography Room on the first recommendations for Mary's students. floor, and to house the College reorganization of the Library's The new Periodical Center on the Library and the Reserve Book public services were made. first floor, draws together all the Hoom on the second floor. Motivation for the move came periodicals, journals and 
newspapers, which were formerly scattered in various locations on the first two floors. The erection of 
a. steel and glass partition on the west side of the first floor of the Library allows the staff to 
(continued on page 14) 


THE SIEGAL-SCHWALL 
BLUES BAND 
in concert 

Also appearing: RESURRECTION (from Indianapolis) 
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 16 8:00pm Admission: $3.50 (advance), $4.00 (at the door) All seats reserved 
Advance tickets available at Morris Civic Box Office. Mail orders accepted --enclose self addressed stamped en­velope and check or money order 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 211 N. Michigan Avenue Downtown South Bend 232-6954 

Please Compare I I I 
Before You Buy Or Lease a 


REFRIGERATOR 
Look for these features: 
Look for these features: 
4.6 Cubic Feet (The Legal Limit) B Push Button Defrosting Sliding Shelves Work Top No Deposit FREE Delivery -Maintenance -Pickup Local Dealer -Student Reps 
CALL AND COMPARE NOW All this for less than you expect 
CALL NOW ESLINGER LEASE SERVICE 
259 2242 291 5676 ' 
SEALS & CROFTS in concert Friday, September 15 in Stepan Center Special Guest Star: PURE PRAIRIE LEAGUE 
Showtime --8: 00 $2.50 General Admission 
First ticket sale is TODAY from 4-5 in the Fiesta Lounge on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center 
...presented by the ND Student Union ... ...... . ."' .,
--~. 


THE OBSERVER 


Price hikes necessary
Campus Situation 
Price: "We cannot operate at a loss" 
Friday, September 8, 1972 Page 3 

First in a series 
University Press: the situation 
h)' Ann Therese Darin 
('ampus News Editor 
(Editor's Note: Last summer Rev. James 
T. Burtchaell, University Provost, issued a letter to the editorial board of the University of Notre Dame Press. The letter challenged the Board with four questions to survey the Press's accomplishments, project future undertakings and report to the ad­ministration "before the autumn draws to a close." 
In a five-part series starting today, Ms. Darin will examine the University Press using the Burtchaell letter-s questions as a basis.) 
Holiness is Wholesome, Chaucer, and La 
Raza are ranked as national university 
press best sellers. Each book has sold 
between 6,000 and 7,000 copies compared 
with an estimated 500,000-1,000,000 for a 
popular best seller. But, for the fiscal year 
1971-72, the University books publisher, the 
University of Notre Dame Press has lost 
money--$17 ,401.14 according to one 
estimate; $112,277. according to another. 
So have many other university presses 
across the nation. In fact, enterprises at 
Boston, Marquette, Duquesne and Catholic 
University have recently suspended 
publication because of increased expense. 
Adolescent or Fatality? 
At Notre Dame, however, it is difficult to 
determine whether the Press, founded in 
1954, is suffering the magnified frustrations 
of adolesence or the preliminary symptoms 
of a fatality. 
"The Press has scored a real lead in the 
field of Spanish American studies--a source 
of profit to the press,"noted Professor 
Matthew A. Fitzsimmons, editorial board 
member. "With Dr. Julian Samora's series, 
on Chicanos, Notre Dame has started 
making substantial contributions to the 
Chicano problem in addition to sponsoring 
work among migrant laborers." 
In addition to this distinction, the 
University Press guest-hosted the annual 
Association of American University Presses 
in late June. They also received grants 
from both the Ford Foundation and 
Rockefeller Foundation to sponsor the 
Chicano series and a series on foreign 
relations published by Notre Dame's 
Committee on International Relations. 
"This is a very, very complex enterprise 
that has to be run professionally and is, at 
the same time, a paradox." mused Ms. 
Emily Schossberger, recently retired Press 
director. 
"University presses publish the smallest 
number of books at the highest prices 
directed to the smallest readership there is 
and therefore, never can be profitable. But, 
they are indispensable for the dissemination 
of scholarship," she added. 
Last year Notre Dame Press published 
approximately 18 books with an estimated 
sale of 1500-300 copies per book. Leaders in 
the University publishing field such as 
University of Chicago, Yale University, and 
the University of California each released 
over 100 new titles during the same period. 
Tlw Magic :1.1100 
However. Notre Dame must limit the 
number of manuscripts published since 
expenses total $7500-$8000 for each work. 
Consequently if the University Press sells 
3,000 copies of a hard-bound book at $10.00, 
figures John Ehemnn, acting Press 
director, the Press will break even. The 
University must assume any press deficit. 
Money, though, is the Press's chameleon. 
While the Press, as listed in Schedule 44 of 
the University's audit for fiscal '70-71, shows a cash flow of -$$17,401.41, it is prohibited from acquiring normal business profits. 
Since it's official founding in the early 1950-s, the University Press, as part of the University, is a non-profit institution with a tax-exempt status. (Technically, according to Dr. James Corbett, history professor, the Press dates from the 1850's). Any sub­stantial profit, claims Ehmann, would cause commerial publishing houses such as Random House, Scribner's and Harper & Row to complain. 
Walking the tight-rope of profit-loss, University Press has encountered other obstacles in recent years in addition to finances. 
Pl'ofit-Loss Tightrope 
Once considered the sustainance of 
university presses, university bookstores no 
longer provide the market possibilities. In 
the Hammes Bookstore on campus, less 
than a dozen books published by the Press 
are stocked. 
"Only two or three are used in Notre Dame classes," noted Ehmann. "It's a negligible factor." 
Even the books stocked by university bookstores are not sure-sales. "A bookstore will order 50 for a class, and 30 will decide to share a book. This is becoming a real problem because college bookstores have to return a lot," said the acting Press director. 
Libraries are, by far, the Press' biggest customer. They account for 60 per cent of sales. But, this year, a survey of regular American Association of University Press customers indicates a cut in many library budgets ranging from 10 to 50 per cent. 
'Yes' Deposit. 'Yes' Return 
Further hurting university presses, in­cluding Notre Dame's are returns by both book jobbers (salesmen) to libraries and bookstores. Press customers may return merchandise not popular with their customers for credit which tends to snarl the Press' accountings. 
Despite these obstacles, the Press has developed from a clearinghouse for football reviews and previews, religious textbook and the university student manual to the only American University Press which specializes in scholarly research on Chicanos, classical English literature and both contemporary and classic theological­philosophical questions. 
:!1 ~ Million Imprint 
Press editorial board members boast that 
in the few years of the Press' functional 
existence, two and a half million books have 
been sold in the United States. Through a 
consortium arrangement with twelve 
midwestern and eastern universities, 
University Press publications are also 
marketed in Europe. 
"The imprint of the University of Notre Dame Press through its books has done more for the University of Notre Dame's academic standing than is given credit to us," asserts Ms. Schossberger. 
Along with a majority of Press editorial board members and faculty, she believes that in a university where publishing scholarly works is enthusiastically en­couraged, the Press is a necessity, ex­pecially in comparison to the allegedly large budgets of other official University publications such as Notre Dame Magazine, which they believe is less enduring when compared with a book. 
Monday: "You have hired a chauffeur for a 1932 Ford"---Ms. Shossberger. 

BY Bob Higgins 
Observer Staff Reporter 
Edmund Price, Director of Notre Dame Food Services, explained yesterday that price increases in many food service items were due to the rising costs of food, labor and other factors of production. 
The price increase touched all aspectf:. of the food service operation with the single exception of the Residence Halls Meal Program. Most items sold in the lluddle. Library Canteen, Pay Cafeteria and Vending machines will cost consumers five cents more this year. Cigarette prices in the Huddle were the most drastically affected, being raised from 35 cents to 45 cents. 
Price felt that it became necessary at the beginning of the summer session to take steps to ·pass on the the increasing costs to the co__ sumers.' 
The director, who shouldered the blame for the price increase in spite of the fact that it was Ad­ministration improved, claimed that every effort had been made to 'hold the line on prices.' However, he noted that the un;versity feels that it is essential that the Huddle not lose money. 
Upon questioning, Price con­firmed that many of his price in­creases exceeded the 5.5 percent guidelines set up by the Nixon Administration Wage and Price Commission. (The price of Coke in the Huddle is up 50 percent.) Althvugh food service is not one of the businesses specifically covered by this commission , Mr. Price said oi' the guidline, 'it was considered, but we feel that we can sub­stantiate what we've done. We cannot be expected to operate at a loss: 
He went on to say that 'there are 
many areas in v... ,ch we did not 
increase prices.' He pointed out 
that thd cost of coffee has risen 
sharply, yet the Huddle's price 
remains at ten cents. Price en­
couraged students to compare the 
Food Service prices to the price of 
similar products at off-campus 
establishments. 

The small increases, Price 
noted. should raise the gross 
revenue of the Food Service 
operation, but he expects no in­
crease in net revenue . Rising 
costs will consume all extra 
revenue. he explained. 
Questioned as to whether any 
methods were considered to avoid 
the price increases, the Food 
Service Director explained that it 
was inevitable. 'We could try to 
stretch our product,' he said, 'but 
I've found that one can't fool 
students.' 

'We are constantly investigating different sources in order to get the best possible price,' he explained, 'but we never compromise with quality first.' He noted that all the 
Burtchaell: Challenges press ac­complishments 

Price: Labor and food costs drive up prices. 
food served is tasted by true 
professionals before it is pur­
chased. 
Price hopes to curb any further increases in Food Service prices by improving the efficiency of the operation. Along these lines, the Director unveiled a plan to convert the Huddle to a self-service cafeteria-type operation, which Price feels will improve service and raise revenue. The renovations will cost about $5000 and will be paid for out of the operating budget of The Huddle. Price feels the work will be completed in time for the beginning of the second semester. 
Student reaction to the price increase was generally one of mild resignation. Mary Selis, the Huddle cigarette and candy counter clerk, said, 'Many of the students make remarks about the higher prices, but none said they would not come back.' 
Senior Cliff Hofman expressed strong disbelief at Food Service Director Price's contention that cigarettes were not a money­maker. He noted that he could purchase the same product downtown for five cents less. When asked whether he would continue to purchase cigarettes at the Huddle, Hofman answered, 'Probably.' 
Ray Cepulis, alsoa senior, was more volatile in his objections. 'I don't like it,' he said, 'and I know a place in Michigan where I can get cigarrettes for thiry cents.' Cepulis does not plan to purchase any more cigarrettes at the Huddle. 
Saint Mary's senior Carol Bontempo, resigned herself to the increases. 'Last year the prices were unheard of,' she pointed out. 'There really was nowhere else you could get a coke for a dime. Now the prices are normal.' 
Miss Bontempo complained that 'the Cokes are half-ice,' but she was quick to add, 'the quality and the price is no better or no worse than anywhere else.' 

Ehmann: A real problem because college bookstores have a lot to return 

AI'! INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER

THE 
John Abowd Dan Thornton

OBSERVER 
Editor-in-chief Business Manager 
Don Ruane Joe Butler Executive Editor Advertising Manager 

News: 283-1715 EditoriaI: 283-8661 Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer,Business: 283-7471 :m behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 



'Something to offer' 
.. "I'm sure that everyone here among Notre Dame faculty and students will have something to offer and something to gain during this transition period. We can face this new op­portunity, as we have faced many others, as a community. We'll never be the same again, but hopefully better. (Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 'Musing on Going Co-Ed," The Observer, 5-3-72) 
It is a curious characteristic of Notre Dame's transition from an all-male university to the beginnings of single-institution coeducation that nowhere in any of the university documents is there a single, complete rationale for the decision to go coed. In fact, one of the most frequently quoted articles is Hesburgh's "Musing on Going Coed" which is, as its title suggests, merely musings---nothing substantive. 
The absence of any publication clearly listing the university's motives for admitting female undergraduates contrasts very unfavorably with the 68-page edition of Princeton's Weekly Alumni devoted entirely to explaining the university's rationale for undertaking coeducation. The magazine preceeded the formal announcement of the decision to go coed by over two months. In addition, it provided for alumni, students, and faculty alike a complete assessment of the educational, financial and legal reasoning that precipitated the decision. 
Many people unquestionably believe that it is too late for Notre Dame to correct this deficiency and that such a document would now be useless. Not so. 
Possible Explanations 

Several plausible reasons could be advanced: 
---surrender to nearly interminable student pressure to provide a more realistic academic and social environment. (pressure that was being increasingly manifested in the reluctance many top quality students felt towards attending an all-male institution) 
--surrender to legal pressures regarding discrimmation on the basis of sex. (some federal funds come with that tie) 
-a genuine desire to provide quality un­dergraduate education to females. 
No doubt all these factors entered into the decision, but it's easy to see how policy could be flavored by giving a major emphasis to any one of them. There is no good reason to give any explanation the benefit of the doubt. 
Our Contribution 

The eight page insert that follows this editorial is a first step in addressing the question of motivation. It is our "something to offer" in terms of history and explanation of the change in environment that coeducation will bring to Notre Dame. 
It is past time for Frs. Hesburgh and Burt­chaell to give the ND community their "something to offer." It is past time for the of­ficial document on the reasons for undertaking coeducation. This does not mean that we should all be surprised by its contents. It means, sim­ply, that the entire community should be given the opportunity to read, scrutinize and con­tribute to the long range planning and the short run decisions accompanying coeducation, decisions that have by no means been completed. 
The starting ground for this process must be a clearly stated rationale. :l'he only place this rationale can come from is inside the ad­ministration building. Once it is public, though, the whole community must study and contribute to the resultant planning. 
John Abowd 


Ms. t;~ivinr:ts 
maria fiallar:~her 
Feminism at SMC 
A subtle, yet viable component of the new attitude which has sur­faced at St. Mary's is the considerable number of feminists who have emerged on the cainpus. The movement as yet is hardly a dominant force and its subscribers are hardly of the "radical" sort, but its impact is being felt nevertheless. The summer appears to have dredged up feminist sympathy long dormant in many. 
For example, I've heard several women say that this summer was the first time in their lives that they became downright incensed about the Miss Universe pageant. Before, they had tuned in merely out of curiousity, to root for their state's representative, or simply because it was part of the American myth and everybody watched it. This year, for some reason, brought a change. 
For the first time in their lives, they questioned. What is the purpose of this parade of flesh? What is the point of choosing the best exploiter of her physical attributes? To create an ideal for women the world over to emulate? I don't know about you, but the old saying goes, "either you have it or you don't," and I'm inclined to believe it. The very raising of the question of physical attractiveness as a prerequisite to a happy life (and any ad you see today would certainly imply it> presupposes a certain shallowness in the american culture which would sponsor and nurture such a spectacle. The women (or, rather, the bodies) which participate are not individuals--only a showcase for advertisers and a tool in the hands of promotion people. A recent article in Ms. magazine (vol. 1, no. 3) supports this hypothesis in an article about Wendy Long <Miss USA, 1069-70) who has had second thoughts about being Your Ideal. 
The women's questioning goes even further. Many experienced job discrimination over the summer which precipitated the emergence of more intense feelings about the treatment of women. St. Mary's women, like women everywhere, ·were weary of being shoved into a second-rate place in the world, and have come to realize that they can utilize their brains and fight back. This is the core of the feminist movement---not abortion support, not the braless revolution, not cries for the abolition of marriage---these are merely addenda that in­dividuals may choose to accept or reject. The primary bond of unity among the sisters is the realization of themselves as individuals rather than objects in society and their desire to be treated as such. 
At. St. Mary's, a new individualism pervades the entire campus. The new, growing spirit-of awareness manifests itself in innumerable ways. No longer does St. Mary's feel quite so dependent upon Notre Dame. Academic freedom has come to the campus with the in­novations of President Edward Henry. No longer are SMC freshmen taught the "fight song" as step number 1 in their orientation as they had been in the past. No longer are they herded across the road their first night on campus by matchmaking-bent RA's. Instead, there's a certain self-assuredness. Last year during the unmerger the cry was "What are we going to do without Notre Dame?" And this year, students are looking ahead saying, "Look at all we can do without Notre Dame!" Self-esteem has generated. 
More than that, the "woman's role" is being increasingly contested. As one junior pointed out, "God made man and woman. But he didn't make any 'roles'---these were Cl"eated by society. So no one is qualified to say, 'Do this---this is your place.' " 
Turning to nature, we can see that male and female share the "roles" that constitute their lifestyles. Both share equally the tasks of feeding, training, and caring for their young. Therefore, analogies to "the male instinct" or "the female instinct" are fallacious. 
Both the male and female participate in the act of conception, so why need one assume almost total responsibility for the offspring simply because one carried that offspring in her womb? Why should it be up to only the female to decide whether to place the child in a day care center and work or remain home full time? Why shouldn't the male be confronted with the choice as well? In nature, it is not "less masculine" to stay with the young, why should it be for human beings? A young father who would choose to stay home and rear his children would certainly be considered an oddity by our society, and yet why should he? 
One of the biggest boosts to the feminist movement is, of course, the institution of Ms. magazine. For the first time, a woman's publication has emerged which has some semblance of literacy, too long preceded by male counterparts such as Playboy and Esquire. Ms. appeared in the SMC bookstore this year and sold out in record time--faster than Bride's, Seventeen, Glamour, Cosmopolitan, and other standard feminine fare. Ms. does not traffick repulsive, mindless ads; neither does it project itself to a woman who busies herself solely with the preparation of recipes or the knitting of afgans. 
Ms. instead seeks out the openminded woman who acknowledges the fact that she has intelligence and. is not afraid to patronize it. Thank God that someone has awakened to the fact that it is no shame for woman to unfetter herself from·1the traditional restrictions of "her role," glorifying this bondbreaking as her triumphant new role. 
H111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 IIIll1111 1111 II II 111111 IIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
the staff 
the issue staff: 
Nite Editor: Joe Abell Asst. Nite Editor:Marlene Zloza Layout: Maria Gallagher, Bill Brink, John 
Sikora, ·AI Rutherford Day Editor: Pete Fries Special Coed Section Editor: Anthony 
Abowd Coed Section Staff: Nick Catrabone Picture Screener: Bob Hughes Typists: John Flannigan, Diane Chermslde, 
Dave Rust, Steve Roper, Mike Goetz Nite Controller: Joe Wilkowski 
Friday, September 8, 1972 the observer 
5 







THE ERA OF COEDUCATION 

$-4 
Q.) 
$-4> 
Q.) 
(/.) 
..0 
0 
';S ~ ~ 
..t::> 
~ 
~ ~ ~ ~ ~,DO
.,..... 
.....-4 
~ ~
(ll) (ll)
~ ~ b() ~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
{/.) 
~ 
~ 0 
...... 
u ~
~ = 
s
~ ~ ~ 
-~ ~ 
~
~ 
~ 
~ 
u 
~ 
...... =<
-~ ~ ......
....... 
~ 
~ ~ ~ 
0 
.!:J
~ 
0 0
-
...... ~ 
{/.) 
~ . 
~ 
0 ~
..... 
~ ~ 
The first women at Notre Dame: A look at coeducation 
by Jerry Lutkus 
"The undergraduate women are a beginning and a becoming. The University is growing with the times and speaking to a demand and a need that's been voiced by its students and brought by its ad­ministration. I think that when you come to it knowing that we are building a tradition, it isn't two to one in ratio and it won't be for a long time, you come away with an awareness that it's a pioneer group. And it just isn't the women who are pioneers, we're all pioneers."­-Sue Roberts 
130 years ago, a pioneer founded the Universityof Notre Dame. Fr. Edward Sorin opened his small school on the banks of the St. Joe River in the midst of what was then Indiana wilderness. 

Fr. Sorin's little school grew up td be the modem goliath that Notre Dame is today. Yet 130 years later, a new breed of pioneers have come to the wilderness patch where the goliath has grown ... a new breedof pioneers much like .. Sue Roberts. 
Sue Roberts is a Quaker from ..Edwardsburg, Michigan. Her initiation into University activities began when she was named to the University's Ad­visory Committee on Co-Education. Now she has been named as an Assistant to Fr. Burtchaell 's Office of the Provost, concentrating on aiding Sr. John Miriam Jones . 
Sr. John Miriam Jones is a pioneer much like Sue Roberts. 
(continued on page 8) 


the observer t:_riday, September 8, 1972
6 
A .first look at the new rectors 
by Anthony Abowd In the months ahead, the new staff in Badin and 
The dawn of coeducation brings new faces to the Walsh will play a key role in establishing hall rector and assistant rector scene at Notre Dame. The character. The new staffs inherited halls that had no new dormitory staffs of Badin and Walsh are young, hall government, no home rule and a set of entirely excited, very optimistic and totally female. new residents. 
"What's really a challenge," says Szafran, "is "It is not that women need Notre Dame, but that ND establishing a tradition and setting our own needs women," says Sr. Jane Pitz, assitant rector in precedents. We have no example to follow. We are the Walsh, echoing the views of many ND administrators. 
first in line."
"This is a challenge," says Joanne Szafran, rector in (continued on page 7) Walsh. "I'm very optimistic," says Kathy Cekanski, Badin's new rector. 
~What's really a challenge is 
Both Ms. Szafran and Ms. Cekanski are, naturally, the first female rectors in ND history. They are also 
establishing a tradition and 
the only rectors that are not members of any religious order. From this unique position they explain their 
setting our own precedents. ' 
qualifications and what the future has in store for their halls. 
Szafran is presently a grad student in History at ND. Her undergraduate degree is from Merrimak College in Massachusetts. Last year she was the director of Holy Cross Hall at St. Mary's. This, she believes, is her greatest asset in her new position. 
"From last year's experience IU can say that I am familiar with the environment. I know what is is like living with girls who go to school at ND," Szafran says. 
~ I know what it is like living with girls who go to school at ND.' 
Cekanski, an Ohio State graduate, is one of the "pioneers" females in the ND Law School. She is presently in her third year of law studies. Her law training and her status as a female member of ND for the past two years, she believesareher greatestassets 
"Throughout my law school experience I have been trying to break down barriers. This year should be Joanne Szafran is a ND 
grad student in History
similar. Also, as a lawyer, I am being trained to 
and the rector of Walsh
counsel and listen to people's problems. This should be 
Hall. 
very helpful" Cekanski says. 
fi' /t 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 


rent a refrigerator 


for the whole year I 
The perfect solution for late night snacks, study breaks, and even a whole meal . . . save money ... no more vending machines to gobble up your funds ... save time ... it's right in your own room .•• rent one for the whole year for only pennies per d~y . . . even less . . . when cost is split with your roommate ... approved by the university for in-room use . . . compact . . . lightweight . . . handsome walnut exterior has a beautiful furniture appearance . . . doubles as a table •.. quick freezing ... can freeze up a new tray of large size ice cubes in only 45 minutes •.. holds over 36 cans of canned drinks . . . if unit fails call representative for immediate replacement ••• free pick up and delivery included in rental fee ... limited supply -call now to reserve your unit today! 
CDLD DRINKS ICB CUllS SNACKS 
RIDBT IN !OUR ROOM ! 


call DOW 
FOR FREE DELIVERY 283-1553 
or 
283-7757 
only $22.50 per semester (based upon yearly rates) 
sponsored by ALPHA PHI OMEGA & THE STUDENT UNION OF NOTRE DAME Box 639 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
APO profits will be donated to Sister Marita Day School 




Friday, September 8, 1972 the observer 7 
'I'm impressed with the concern the rectors and administration have shown toward us. 7 
Sr. Jane says she is not a member of women's lib. "But I do think I am a liberated woman, free to think and act as I see fit." 
"I dislike the label 'women's lib,' but I do think women should be allowed to pursue a career the same as men," says Cekanski. 
"I believe in the equality of women," says Szafran. "Women should be recognized as real women andKathy ('ckanski, a third treated as such."
year law student, is the The new staff feels that the new coeds will be subject new rector of Badin to close scrutiny in the months ahead. Sue Roberts, a

Hall. newassistantin the Provost office, tells of her college experience which parallels the current ND situation. "I was one of twenty in a class of 1,000 men. You feel Still the rectors are wary about problems. Probably 
so visible as a woman that you are afraid to make the most formidable possibility is a panty raid on the 
mistakes," says Ms. Roberts. 
new female halls. The staff expects some type of mass 

ND women will probably be very visible for some invasion because the dorms are much closer than St. 
time. As Notre Dame approaches this new era of Mary's dorms. They hop.:: to adequately prepare the 
coeducation, Szafran expressed one caution. 
halls. 

"I just hope that people don't judge too quickly.The rectors are happy with the preparations made 
Remember, we have to establish whole.new traditions for coeducation. The halls are newly remodeled, and 
here." the Rockne Memorial and the ACC have female facilities. Even the bookstore has stocked ladies gym suits. 
' The halls are just the right size.' 
"The halls are just the right size. They are not too big. With the small female residences, we have twice the staff we would have if we had one big dormitory. I'm impressed with the concern the rectors and ad­ministration has shown toward us," say Cekanski. 

"I really like the willingness of those people to try different things," says Szafran. Sr. Jane Pitz is with
In such a prominent position for ND's coeducation 


Campus Ministry inprogram, the rectors and assitants face constant addition to being theconnection with women's liberation movement." Still rector assistant in 
the new residence hall staff members do not consider 

Walsh. themselves hard-core women's libbers. 
'I just hope people don't judge too quickly.' 
Cultural Arts Commission presents 
TWO-LANE BLACKTOP 
,
,
,

Starring Jallles Taylor, 
,
,
,
, 
,1

Dennis Wilson and 
~ 

Warren Oates Sept. 8 -9 8 -10 pm Engineering Auditorium Admission $1.00 
the observer Friday, September 8, 1972 

The first wome 
(continued from page 5) 
"The girls coming are pioneer women in a sense. Thev are comin~ with a challenge in mind." 
Sr. John Miriam is the new Assistant to the Provost. Her "central concern" is to insure a smooth transition to co-education. Fr. Burtchaell describes her job as "the most important person who has to worry about co­education." 
It is this new breed of pioneers that has helped bring coeducation to Notre Dame in its 130 year. 
The vanguard of Notre Dame's move toward a coeducational institution is 365women, 125 of whom are freshmen. 211 of the remaining 240 transfer students were former students at St. Mary's College. 
The women are much like Sue Roberts and Sr. John Miriam in their attitudes about entering Notre Dame. Many also view it as a pioneering adventure. A great many of the women claim that their admission is a historical move by Notre Dame and they proudly assert that they are the first women undergraduates at the school. 
Others, however, disregard the historical context. One female student pointed out that "This is simply Notre Dame's 130th year--nothing's different." 
Many of theadministrators seem to agree, but in a different light. They point to the co-ex program that the University entered into with St. Mary's College in 1965. 

This stipulation brought the merger proceedings 
This program brought thousands of St. Mary's girls to 
halt in November.
the all-male campus over the past seven years. 

After reconsideration, merger talks reopened
Dean of Students, Fr. James Riehle claimed that 

February, 1972, but they were short-lived. The
"it's not going to be a disaster of a change because of 

between the schools crumbled and Notre Dame
the co-ex classes. Because of the co-ex system, a lot of 

sequently announced that it would admit its
the problems are already solved." 

women undergraduate students. Mixed opinions answered the announcement. students were opposed and alumni were split.
~The girls coming are pioneer women in a sense. 

reigned. Admission policies at both schools reversed because all applications had been L---·'"·• jointly for Notre Dame-st. Mary's. 
Protest ripped St. Mary's as the women
They are coming with a challenge in mind.' 
vehemently. A one day boycott of classes 

closed the educational processes of the school. But 
Notre Dame side of US 31 remained calm ._..•.hal• 
These administrators point out that though the first quieted by the promise of 125 freshmen girls and women have been directly admitted for un­upperclass students. dergraduate education this year, the co-ex program Despite the uproar Notre Dame continued on 
has paved the way for them. announced plan and September, 1972 brought the In September of 1965, the co-ex program with St. women undergraduates to the campus. Mary's began and six SMC students began courses on Their entrance was well prepared. In March, the ND campus. Likewise, 15 Notre Dame men started Provost's office had appointed the Advisory courses on the campus across US 31. mittee for Coeducation. Its purpose was to The co-ex program continued unhindered until 1967 recommendations to the administration concerning 
.vhen its obvious effects began to take hold. The transition to co-education. frustees of both schools passed pledges that the The committee functioned well. The report, issued >chools would remain "autonomous but cooperating May, brought words of praise from Burtchaell. 
institutions." Significantly, the first cooperative "I was very impressed with the coed report and department was the Departments of Music and Speech complied with most of its recommendations," combined. noted. "I was very impressed that a committee 
May, 1969, brought new developments. Richard compile such a balanced report in such a short time. Conklin, the University's director of public information Burtchaell went on to explain that all departments reported that the ND-SMC Co-ordinating Committee's the University were responsible to him in fulfilling 
"Statement of Principles" was adopted by trustees of recommendations of the committee's report. both institutions. The document explaned the co-ex Kathy Cekanski and Joanne Szafran, appointed program and decreed that required freshmen liberal directors of the female dorms Badin and Walsh, arts courses were to be mixed 5Q-50 and taught on both not veil their pleasure with committee's report. campuses. It endorsed identical academic calendars, and integrated class and exam schedule, and a com­mon grading system. 
However, less than three months later Fr. Theodore 
Hesburgh, President of Notre Dame, and Msgr. John Sr. John Miriam Jones McGrath, SMC President, squelched all rumors of (left) and Susan Roberts mergers in a joint statement. join the staff of the Office of Dr. Lewis B. Mayhew and Dr. Rosemary Park were 
the Provost. Their new 
secured by the two schools in April, 1970 to prepare a 
duties include many of the 
report on the future collaboration of the two in­
programs involving N.D's 
stitutions. The report, issued in December, formed the 
lint female undergrads. 
basis for the merger announcements between the 

r schools in May, 1971. 
r Both Boards of Trustees approved plans to seek 
r unification without the loss of St. Mary's identity. The 
,r joint statement emphasized the importance of financial viability to any merger scheme. 
~ 


~Because of the coex system, a lot of the problems are already solved.' 
Exclusive photos by Jim Hunt 

,r 
r 
~ 
t 
Friday, September 8, 1972 the observer 
9 


at Notre Dame 
Fr. William Toohey, Director of Campus Ministry, however, was worried about being overly solicitous. "Maybe we'll be overly-solicitous. We'll be giving them too much maybe. Maybe we'll make too big a deal about them. It'll be tough and it'll take a special kind of girl." 
The problem of coeducation is a problem of education according to the committee and Ackerman agrees. Ackerman feels that the University has done a particularly good job in this area. 
"Co-education gives the University a chance to look at itself," he commented. "It's a great opportunity for institutional renewal. The purpose of ND is to educate and coeducation becomes part of that purpose. We're taking the opportunity to look at all facets of the University."The final recommendation of the com­mittee is one which is to a large degree unsure. The cooperation between the schools seems to be at the lowest point in the last few years. Notre Dame ad­ministrators seem unsure about the extent that cooperation between the schools will be continued. 
Burtchaell noted that "the co-ex programs need a lot more thought." But he added that "SMC has reduced coex activity about 96 per cent by taking the cost down to the students." 
Other administrators claimed that the extent of co­"The University is really prepared for women," ex activities is basically upup to the students.
Szafran noted. "I don't think they neglected Ackerman admitted that he really doesn't know where
anything." co-ex stands.
The committee itself was composed of studetns, faculty, and lay professionals from outside the campus "Communication (between the campuses) is done community. Their report offered four general beyond the level on where I sit. We've tried to main­recommendations for the community: tain communication on the Student Mfairs level. The 
--"for the welfare of all its students and in order to co-ex programs are being looked into again, but the uphold the University's tradition of excellence in communication is in the student's hands. We've got to education and social relevancy, the committee see how the student governments work together," recommends that Notre Dame significantly increase Ackerman offered. the number of qualified women on the faculty and Phillip Faccenda, Acting Vice President for Student include them in all administrative ranks. Affairs replied with a hopeful answer. ''I would like to 
--"with the modesty of a suggestion regarding a cooperate a whole lot more with SMC. There's so much general approach to and feel for how to go about more that we could do better together than apart.'' coeducation rather than the force of a recom­As of yet, however, there seems to be little headway mendation, the Committee advises the University to on the administrative level. The only contact seems to avoid the dual pitfalls of over-solicitude for women be on the student level. students on one hand, and neglect of their particular Jim Clarke, Research and Development Com­problems on the other. missioner for Notre Dame Student Government, has 
---"the committee wants to use this opportunity of resurrected the co-ex dining program between the making recommendations concerning women at Notre campuses. Included in that is the opportunity for the Dame to remind the community that the problem of women of Badin and Walsh to also dine at St. Mary's. coeducation is basically the problem of education, and But it would seem that the most disappointing aspect that thinking about the education and educational of Notre Dame's coed move is the failing of com­environment of women is thinking about the sub­munication between the schools on the Administrative stantive issues of the life of the University itself. level. The burden now seems to fall on the stude ts of 
---"the committee regards it imperative that the the two institutions who for years were unified out of University take positive steps to insure and promote social expediency. contact, communication, and cooperation between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's women. (continued on page 11) 

'The University is really prepared for women. I don't think they neglected anything.' 
Dr. Robert Ackerman, Director of Student Activites, spoke to the University's compliance with these four general recommendations. 
Ackerman noted that in particular the University has appointed Sr. John Miriam Jones and Sue Roberts to positions of importance within the Administrative structure of the school. 
In addition, the Office of the Provost confirmed that there are 43 additional females on the faculty. 
Ackerman confessed that this situation is "no where near parity," but he noted that it is a substantial in­crease. 
Sr. Jane Pitz's addition to Campus Ministry was one of the more important moves in the coeducation drive according to Fr. Toohey. Sr. Jane will be serving as a member of the Ministry and as the assistant rector of Walsh Hall. Serving in the same capacity in Badin Hall is Sr. Sue Bennett. 
The oversolicitude towards the women was of par­ticular interest to Ackerman. He noted that the renovations of Badin and Walsh were not out of the ordinary. He offered as an example that hair dryers, though requested by some for the two dorms, were not supplied. 


'Coeducation gives the University a chance to look at itself. It's a great opportunity for institutional renewal.' 






-.. 
10 the observer Friday, September a, 1972 
Dr. Robert Ackerman writes 

Coed process at ND 
Much has been made of the impending fall of Notre Dame, the certain result of the presence of undergraduate students who are women. The first few class days of this school year have passed and, hopefully, so has the CBS film crew. The long awaited and singularly important step of "going coed" has been achieved although not before Paul Harvey mused toward the day when the Four Horsemen would have to be called the Four Horsepersons. 
All of this anticipation not withstanding; the point should be made that for most of its long history Notre Dame has been coed in deed although perhaps not in fact until the class of '76, completed registration. This campus has not been without the presence and influence of women if only because it stands as a shrine to a particular woman. In addition, there has been a great deal of for­mal and informal exchange at various levels between the Notre Dame and St. Mary's communities and although the efforts toward marrying the two institutions have proven to be less than successful, similar unions bet­ween their graduates are most common. It is therefore difficult to pinpoint a specific day as the date when coeducation at Notre Dame began. It is equally irrelevant to point to a person or a group as being the "first". "Going coed" is a process which on this campus was undertaken several uears agp amd wjocj wo;; extend long into the future. 
A purpose of all universities is to preserve and transmit the culture and if only to fulfill their purpose universities change very slowly. The process of change at Notre Dame has now reached that point where male and female undergraduates will have the op­portunity to fully share an educational community as coequals. This new com­munity that can now be developed has been under preparation for a long time and a great many details have received attention. What remains is for each of us, individually in a creative way, to realize the personal growth that this new community makes possible. 
The process of "going coed" at the in­stitutional level involves specific attention to a variety of practical considerations. Matters such as seeking and admitting qualified students, selecting and refurbishing housing units, and choosing role models and training staff must be attneded to. How well the in­stitution has attended to these and countless other details is but a matter of opini'ln at this point. 
Impressions of Student 
However, institutionalized efforts can accomplish only so much and beyond that the successful completion of the process of "going coed" is primarily dependent-upon the individuals that conprise the community. What has,begun this week at Notre Dame is the building of a new environment in which all persons and each person can grow and develop according ·to his or her talents and interests. The great challenge of "going coed" is to be found in this one aspect of the total process. At a very personal level it involves acceptance and understanding, it requires that the community spirit that was our past be extended to include whatever community will be developed to mark our future. 
'What remains is for each of us... to realize the personal growth that this new community makes possible.' 
Rules, regulations and policies are of very little help in this challenge, personal consciousness and an attitude of caring are of great help. The process of "going coed" is at the unique stage where those persons who came here because we are coed must be fused those who came here because we weren't. The new community of the campus must onclude those persons who disapprove of the change as well as those who allowed it and this coming together of differences is dependent upon attitude change and personal understandidng. 
The processes that have brought us to this point were relatively easy to accomplish. What remains as our present challenge is more creative and more difficult. Coeducation itself can hardly be a panacea, nor can it be the source of all that is wrong. Rather, it marks an opportunity for each person here to experience and grow while participating in and living through a change. The success of "going coed" can be judged by each person as a means to further individual growth, to become educated. Little else in the process really matters. 
by Director Activities 
Grand Opening 
of 
ZAGRAN'S 
ZINEMA WEST 
CAT BALLOU 
Starring Lee Marvin and Jane Fonda 
Saturday, Sept. 9th at 8:00 & 10:00 
Come to "AMERICA" in the basementschedules, co II at Flenner
Dan Sheehan at 283! 3610. 
Admission $1.00
' 
-


-BICYCLES­
MIDDlE WEIGHTS LIGHT WEIGHTS RACING 
3 SPEED--S SPEED-·10 SPEED--TANDEMS 
American  QUALITY  
Japanese  IMPORTED  
French  10 SPEEDS  
English  S99.00 & UP  
Italian  IMMEDIATE DELIVERY  


WE SERVICE All MAKES 
IMPORTED & DOMESTIC 
BICYCLE CENTER 
OPEN MONDAY 'TIL 8:30PM Closed Sal. Sept. 9 and Mon. Sept. 18 Phone 287-1623 Daily 9:30 'tiiS:JO 1437 Portage Ave, 


September iJ! the A.C.C. 
Showtime • 8:30 
All Chair Seats $5.50 Bleachers $3.00 
on sale Monday in the Fiesta Lounge (4·5 pro) and in the A.C.C. Box Office (9·5). 

Any club or organization wishing to participate in Activities Night, to he held 
Wednesday, September 13, 
in La Fortune Student Center should contact the Student Activities Office (7308) or New Student Orientation (3378) by September 9. 
HOMELESS? COME SEE THE NOTRE DAME AVE. APARTMENTS. YOU ARE LOOKING FOR MODERN LIVING, WE HAVE THE ANSWER: 

CLOSENESS TO CAMPUS 
2 LARGE BEDROOMS · ROOM FOR FOUR STUDENTS 
LARGE KITCHENS, DINING ROOMS, AND 
PLENTY OF STORAGE SPACE 
FULLY CARPETED LIVING ROOMS WITH A PRIVATE PATIO AND BALCONY 
These Apartments are fully furnished and are coeducational. 
CALL 234-6647 OFFICE 919 SOUTH BEND AVE., SOUTH BEND 
. -:·:..-:.-----------.. ~-----~ 

WAIT UNTIL DARK 
Starring Audrey Hepburn 
Friday, Sept. Mth at 8:00 & 10:00 

Trans World Airlines welcomes you to Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
For information regarding group travel, youth cards, Getaway credit cards, and flight 


----~---~-~~~~~~--~~----------------....J 

More on ND coeducation 

(continued from page 9). 
Ackerman spoke of the disparity Other Committee recorr­
in numbers between men and mendations were followed almost 
women when he looked into the 

to the letter. As Burtchaell ex­future. "Experience tells us that it plained. the University virtuall) <the disparity l is a problem.complied point by point with th( 
University of Virginia had about report. 
the same process of going coed and The renovations of Badin and 
they ended up reaching for their Walsh were a major point of the 
parity figure immediately." report. The Committee asserted 
He continued, "the ratio is going that the renovations of the halls 
to be a problem in the same sense should be such that they are not 
that black to white is. It is that turned irrevocably f~minine. 
same kind of loneliness that the An estimate of $140,000 was 
black feels on an all-white cam­a<.·t·epted for the work on the two 
pus." ' dorms. The summer long job is 

Joanne Szafran, Walsh's rector, finally being completed with both 
hoped that the coeducation would Radin and Walsh seeing refinished 
bring a growing experience.:md t'l'painted walls, new sinks, 
"There will be a positive growing. nwdicine chests. lights and other 
Both guys and girls will be improvements. <.·hallenging and questioning..The The Committee stated, 
institution must be as normal as 

"Physical renovatons in Badin and life is and Notre Dame is at­
Walsh should be assessed in tempting to be close to life." 
rl'lation to residence halls im­The rector ·of Badin, Kathy 
provements generally needed Cekanski. spoke along much the 
throughout campus." same lines. It'll make the 
The coming of coeducation llniversity much more humanistic. 
prompted some star gazing on the Notre Dame is getting with it. 
part of the Administration and This will be a more realistic living 
after prodding many spoke situation because an all-male 
favorably of the future. institution is totally unrealistic." 
Fr. Toohey's big hope for 
t•oeducation is that it would 
<creative redeeming.> Within that context. coed is indispensable. It adds that dimension to the growth <.•xperience." 
Toohey offered an analogy to the Notre Dame experience. He 
daimed that training cannot be 
Guess the number* of Swingline"total actuality of a real ex­Tot staples in the jar. perience." But the closer the The jar is approximately square -3" x 3" x 4% ". Look for the
training comes to actuality, then 
clue about "Tot" capacity. 

the better the training is." 
The "Tot 50"'" is uncondition­

Roth Toohey and Faccenda 
ally guaranteed. It staples, tacks, noted that coeducation will finally mends and costs only 98¢ sug­destroy the "barracks attitude" at gested retail price at Stationery, Variety and College Bookstores
Notre Dame. Faccenda hoped that 
with 1,000 staples and vinyl

the new system would have a 
pouch. Swingline Cub Desk and

maturing effect on the people in­
Hand Staplers for $1.98 each. \"Olved and he labeled coeducation Fill in coupon or send postcard. No purchase required. Entries must be
the number one concern for the 
postmarked by Nov. 30, 1972 and re­l'ntire University this year. ceived by Dec. 8, 1972. Final decision by an independent judging organization. Toohey noted that we are seeing In case of tie, a drawing determines a the t•ompletion of Notre Dame's winner. Offer subject to all laws and void in Fla.. Mo., Wash., Minn. & Idaho.
"movement from the zoo." "It's a IMPORTANT: Write your guess outside the envelope, lower lefthand corner.
\"ery subtle change year by year. Wl•'re finally accepting women as a part of this place " 



NOW SHOWING 
ACADEMY

t 
AWARD 
~A~~!~~ 

"'""' Best Costume Design 

P.O. Box 1 
New York, N.Y. 10016 
THERE ARE_ STAPLES IN THE JAR 
Name-------------------­Address _______________
Nicholas 
City·------------------­
•nd 
State'--------Zip__

Alexandra 
Telephone No.------------­AHOIUZON FlM !rum C'OLUMBIA PICTURES ._.,lrlAE=~~rMf'qiJIIJ.I!IAff!lll 
_s~~ 
32.00 Sltdl...... A.... LOlli ••••nd c;ty. N.Y. 11101 I

IN COLOR PG 
~---------~----· 
"It's the real world," countered Sr. Jane Pitz. "There's always been a crying need around for women and it's finally being realized." 
Notre Dame has finally realized its need for women, but that is not the imperative reason behind coeducation . If ND held this viewpoint. then coeducation would be only an aid for the men already here. 
This is the view Dick Conklin takes. "If Notre Dame is serious about the business of higher education, it had better educate the other half of the human race. And if it wants to teach future leaders of society, it should open its classrooms to the sex which will increasingly influence major American institutions." 

Notre Dame St. Mary's Committee for 
McGovern -Shriver 
ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1972 7:00pm LIBRARY AUDITORIUM 
"humanize the place." "It will <.·ontribute to the goal that I think is 

Guest Speaker 
t·rucial to Notre Dame-that we can 
Congressman John Brademas
supply four years that are con­ducive to human growth." 
Everyone is welcome 
Notre Dame is a "touching 
)

place." according to Toohey. "We 
Paid for by Citizens for Brademas committee 
. are touched by other people. And we are either infected with the plague <unlove l or with love 

BOAnNG 8 mos. $6.50 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.50 1 yr. (48 iss.) $10.00 (1 yr. Reg. $7.00 (1 yr. Reg. $14.00 
. 
1 yr. newsstand $9.00) 1 yr. newsstand $24.00) SKIING REDBOOK 1 yr. (7 iss.) $2.00 1 yr. (12 iss.) $2.88 2 yrs. $4.00 2 yrs. $5.76 
(1 yr. Reg. $4.00 (1 yr. Reg. $3.95 1 yr. newsstand $4.50) 1 yr. newsstand $7.20) MODERN BRIDE STEREO REVIEW 
1 yr. (6 iss.) $2.00 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.50 (1 yr. Reg. $4.00 (1 yr. Reg. $7.00 1 yr. newsstand $6.00) 1 yr. newsstand $7.20) 
POPULAR ELECTRONICS CAR & DRIVER 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.00 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.50 (1 yr. Reg. $6.00 (1 yr. Reg. $7.00 1 yr. newsstand $6.00) 1 yr. newsstand $7.00) 
PLAYBOY PSYCHOLOGY TODAY 1 yr. (12 iss.) $8.50 1 yr. (12 iss.) $6.00 (1 yr. Reg. $10.00 (1 yr. Reg. $12.00 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) 
NEW YORKER JET 1 yr. (52 iss. )$6.00 6 mos. (26 iss.) $5.50 (1 yr. Reg. $12.00 9 mos. (38 iss.) $7.50 ·1 yr. newsstand $26.00) 1 yr. (52 iss.) $10.00 
APARTMENT IDEAS (1 yr. Reg. $12.00 2 yrs. (8 iss.) $3.00 1 yr. newsstand $18.20) (2 yrs. Reg. $5.00 BRIDE'S MAGAZINE 2 yrs. newsstand $8.00) 1 yr. (8 iss.) $3.97 VOGUE (1 yr. Reg. $4.00 1 yr. (20 iss.) $6.50 1 yr. newsstand $8.00) (1 yr. Reg. $10.00 READER'S DIGEST 1 yr. newsstand $15.00) 1 yr. (12 iss.) $2.50 SPORT (1 yr. Reg. $4.97 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.50 1 yr. newsstand $6.00 ) (1 yr. Reg. $6.00 ESQUIRE 1 yr. newsstand $7.20) 14 iss. $5.00 VILLAGE VOICE (1 yr. Reg. $8.50 1 yr. (52 iss.) $5.00 .1 yr. newsstand $14.00) 


(1 yr. Reg. $7.00 
rpj;;;'p;j;rt;;i;iY) 

RYING 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.50 (1 yr. Reg. $7.00 1 yr. newsstand $9.00) 
MADEMOISEW 9 mos. $2.65 1 yr..02 iss.) $3.50 (1 yr. Reg. $6.00 1 yr. newsstand $7.20) 
POPULAR PHOTOGRAPHY 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.50 (1 yr. Reg. $7.00 1 yr. newsstand $9.00) 
ROLLING STONE 20 iss. $7.00 (1 yr. Reg. (26 iss.) $10.00 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) 
SATURDAY REVIEW OF: THE ARTS THE SOCIETY SCIENCE EDUCATION 
Each title 1 yr. (13 iss.) $6.00 
(Each title 1 yr. Reg. $8.00) NEW YORK MAGAZINE 1 yr. (52 iss.) $5.00 (1 yr. Reg. $8.00 1 yr. newsstand $26.00) 
HARPER'S MAGAZINE 1 yr. (12 iss.) 8 iss. $2.84 (1 yr. Reg. $8.50 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) 
COUNTRY MUSIC 1 yr. (12 iss.) $6.00 (1 yr. newsstand $7.20 (Note: New S!Jbscribers get record album from publisher at no additional cost.) 
COMMENTARY 
1yr. (12 iss.) $5.00 
(1 yr. Reg. $10.00 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) 
McCALL'S 1 yr. (12 iss.) $2.88 2 yrs. $5.76 
(1 yr. Reg. $3.95 1 yr. newsstand $6.00) 
GOLF DIGEST 11 iss. $3.97 (1 yr. Reg. $7.50 1 yr. newsstand $8.25) 
CYCLE 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.00 
(1 yr. Reg. $6.00 1 yr. newsstand $6.00) 
HOUSE & GARDEN 1 yr. (12 iss.) $4.00 (1 yr. Reg. $7.00 1 yr. newsstand $9.00) 
PENTHOUSE 
1 yr. $8.00 (1 yr. Reg. $10.00 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) 
TV GUIDE 28 iss. $2.94 56 iss. $5.88 (1 yr. Reg. (52 iss.) $7.00 1 yr. newsstand $7 .80) 
GLAMOUR 9 mos. $2.65 (1 yr. Reg. $6.00 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.50 1 yr. newsstand $7.20) 
ATLANTIC MONTHLY 8 mos. (8 iss.) $3.50 1 yr. (12 iss) $5.25 (1 yr. Reg. $10.00 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) 
1 yr. newsstand $13.00) 

IName .................................. ,: ..................................... , ... ,... ,.... , .......... , ........... ..
TO ORDER: 

Mailing Address. ................ ..... . .................................. . 
Simply fill in your name, address, school and magazines desired in the ICity . . . . . . . . . .. . . . State . . . . . . . .. Zip . . . . . . . . . ......... . 
space below. Should you move during ISchool ...... .. ... .......... .. ... .. ... .. .. .. .. ................ .. ... .. ..... .. .. Yr. Studies End your subscription period, just inform 
I 

MAGAZINES TERM PRICEthe publisher via address change in· 
formation found in each magazine. I······························································································· O Pay now for fastest order-process­1............................................................................................................................. 
ing service. Return this information 

I........................................................................,....................................................
form with payment (payable to EBSCO) in your own envelope to the address IPlease indicate if renewal. TOTAL AMOUNT OF ORDER $ ........................ .. below ... or ... 
EISCO READERS' SERVICE 
0

0 We wilt bill you later. Just fill out I P. 0. Box 1943 BirfT!inaham, AI. 35201 c 1nd Nil this form to this address: I (Offer aood in U. S. only. Publisher prices subject to change.) ::z. 

j 

-~­
~ ---------------~ ----­
....--. 
~ 12 the observer Friday, September 8, 1972
: r,""'""","',"'"'"IIIIIII , , ,,,"""', , , ,,,,, """""""'""""""'""""",,,,,""'""""'~"""" """"'IIIIIIII , "'""', "'"""", 11111111111 , , ,,,""'""""', ,,,..~,,.,, 111111111111111111 """""'"""'""""""""'""'"""I ! i. THE STU DENT UNION i I SOCIAL COMMISSION i 




HAS A GREAT YEAR FOR·YOU CONCERTS . t 
... Seals & Crofts Sept. 15 
·Chicago Sept. 30 Guess Who Oct. 14 Stephen Stills Oct. 27 Yes Nov. 18 

OTHER EVENTS 

Michigan State Football Game Bus Trip Oct. 7 
Homecoming Oct. 13-14 Jack White {Pocket Billiards Artist) Oct. 26 
Mardi Gras Carnival
I 
i
;: 

& Raffle Feb. 2 -10
= 

PlUS Sporadic "Over -the -hill" Ili_ Dances and countless other events 1 

IAnyone interested in helping toIIbring about this great schedulel 
!I= ­

of events ca.~ contact I ~ Joe Prochaska at 7757. ; 
iI Help is needed. I§ 
1111111111111011111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 11111111111111111111111111 II111111111111111111 11111111111111111111111111111 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111~ 
... 

---____,; ------­

Friday, September 8, 1972 the observer 
13 

nam sach '' • • .will stay with me 
• I I

long after the war IS over 
by iane fonda 

(Jane Fonda, well-known actress, recently the boats going down the Red River wayreturned from a trip to North Vietnam. She above my head." is currently working with the Indochina We walked through the mud on the narrow 
Peace Campaign on a nation-wide program paths that run between rice paddies. Ahead, of education about the war and the Viet-I saw my first dike. Like all major dikes it 
namese people.) · 
rose gradually about 8 or 10 meters above the fields, and was made entirely of earth. 

I left my hotel in Hanoi at three o'clock in Some people on bicycles and a few water the morning of July 12th, in a camouflaged buffalo pulling carts were moving along the car. accompanied by members of the top. On the other side was the large Thai Committee of Solidarity With the American Binh River. l't>ople. We were driving to the district of This particular point was attacked for the Nam Sach. 40 miles east of Hanoi in the second time the previous morning by F-4's province of Hai Hung. We traveled at night and A-7's. It is a most strategic section, for because of the danger of strafing by US here the dike must hold back the waters of planes. six converging rivers. These rivers will be 
By the time we arrived in Hai Hung raging down the mountains in less than two province. the sky had begun to lighten. weeks. 1\1 any people were already in the fields; a lot The planes had been here twice so far that 

~---------------------------------, 
~ rr;;;::·:, " ' \
-"''•'% ~ . 
.....

]~ ~~


ti ® 
•....... 9 

All RIGHTS RESERVED 1972 BV ALTERNATlVE FEATURES SERVICE 
of work is done in the dark when there is less week, and they were expected back, Yet all later. This causes serious internal damage revolut~on of 1945. He spoke of danger of planes. around were the people, knee-and elbow­and makes repair work hazardous. schools,hospitals, sanitary facilities being 
Centuries ago, the peasants of Hai Hung deep in the mud; planting their rice, Though difficult ot detect, the weakening built. He told me that illiteracy had been had fought two famous battles against the carrying huge baskets of earth to the dike: of the dike base is the real danger. If these wiped out, and I remembered seeing even Chinese feudal lords. Later, the province, getting on with their lives. cracks aren't repaired in time, the pressure small children reading newspapers along with its large coal mines, became the cradle Someone said I was an American. People from the water which will soon be 6 or 7 the roadside. of the Vietnamese working class under smiled. There was no hostility. Not any, meters above plain level will cause the dikes He was deeply moved when he spoke French colonialism. and I searched their eyes. That will stay to give way and endanger the entire Eastern about the land that is now in serious danger. 
Nguyen Dinh Tri, well-known author with me long after the war is over. region of the Red River Delta. Since May He recalled the days before 1945 when it of a novel about Nam Sach, told me, "Men As I stood on the top of the dike, all I lOth, Nam Sach as been attacked 8 times; didn't belong to them, when his parents, like from there would go to work in the mines could see were rice paddies and, in the four times against the dikes. the others, had to sell themselves as while their wives remained peasants. On distance, some clusters of hamlets-no in­The other major dike I saw in Nam Sach, "coolies" to the rich Greek landowners. weekends the men would come back home," dustry, no routes, no communication lines, on the Kinh Thai River, had been com­"I was 20 at the time of the revolution," he he laughed, "that way we cemented the no military targets--just flat rice fields. pletely severed a few days before. The said. "The lands were given back to use, worker-peasant alliance." Then,suddenly, bomb craters lined both repair work was dangerous because of and my family joined an agricultural 
Today, Nam Sach has a population of one­sides of the dike; gaping holes, some ten unexploded bombs. cooperative. Life has been getting better hundred thousand. The majority grow rice meters in diameter and eight meters deep. Filling in the huge craters is a and better. Since 1968 we have mobilized our and raise pigs. They are protected from The bottoms of the craters were two meters monumental task. The Cuban Ambassador people to move 2 million cubic meters of flood and drought by a complicated system below sea level. The crater from a bomb in Hanoi told me that a dozen or more earth and strengthen our dikes. The dikes in of criss-crossing dikes. The importance of that had severed the dike was practically Cubans, accustomed to working in the fields our district were very strong, and we were the dikes becomes apparent when you filled. with the Vietnamese, collapsed after three safe in the biggest floods of last year. consider that the entire Red River Delta is The main worry was the damage done by hours of packing the earth into a dike. "But after the July 9th raids this summer below sea level. The river beds are raised the bombs which had fallen on the sides. Waiting out a· heavy' downpour in the our people have been very worried because many yards above the plain due to the ac­These cause earthquakes which shatter the district headquarters, I talked with the rainy season has begun and if we cannot cumulated deposits of silt, washed down the foundations of the dike and cause deep Nguyen Huy Ten, 47-year old Chairman mend the dikes in time, the lives of a hun­mountains over the years. A young boy in cracks that zig-zag up the sides. Bombs had of the District Administrative Committee. dred thousand people and 2,000 hectares of Hanoi said, "At the time of high water J,can also been used that penetrate the dike on a He spoke with pride about . the im­arable land will be in danger." stand on the street here and see the sails of slant, lodging underneath and exploding provements made in Nam Sach since the Copyl'ight. Pacific News Service, l!li2 
the pocket-size god 

fr. griffin 
relics, if I should become a martyr of theOn Communion calls to the apartments on one needed the doctrines that smack of It was such people as my lonely show girl Eucharist, dying on those tiles that stank ofthe avenues of Broadway in Manhattan, a· priest-magic, as well as of the romances in that I visited like a stagedoor Johnny this urine. The question was, did I believe thepriest becomes, in a most literal way, the which Christ comes, disguised like ..Cin­summer, bringing with me the sacrament of ~ucharist was precious enough to die for, ifChrist-bearer, bringing God to the derella 's prince, to visit the char-girl who love. In the heat of a New York morning, I It were stolen from me at the point of acrossroads of inner-city life. Among the lives in the ash heap. At such times, hee would walk the littered sidewalks, past the knife'? Was death what God wanted fromcrowds waiting for the light at the corner of qlternative need to fantasy (if it were massage parlors, the brothels, the gay bars, m_e to protect the Host from a couple ofEighth Avenue and Forty-second street, the fantasy) was a resentment colored with and ride the elevator to the seventh floor of a 
pnest alone is aware of the immensity of the Atheism. sleazy hotel, where widows waited, or wives wmos, and from their ignorance which could 
have known little of sacraments and theirgift he carries from the supper table of the I think of the wake of an old time show girl sat at the bedside of their crippled immortal value'?
immortal feast. He alone knows of the I attended this summer. I was the only husbands, with candles burning and linen 
Presence of the Lord hidden in the fragile living soul who came to visit the body at the napkins spread, as though sacristans had I did not die a martyr's death that mor­
ning. All those old guys really wanted wastrappings of a sacrament, borne as casually funeral parlor; the only prayers said for her been setting up altars in flophouse money, and they didn't even try to steal itas coins in the shelter of an inner coat that night was my recitation of the rosary. cathedrals. 
off me. I gave them a dollar apiece, andpocket. He alone is conscious of the There was not a single flower, a single One morning, two derelicts stopped me as then they went off on a spending spree. Thesnowflake of wheat, placed close to the candle, a single Mass card in that room; I was leaving a cold water tenement house whole episode was over before my faith (orbeating of his own heart, where the im-there was only a cheap, unadorned casket, on 47th street. Rather ungently, they pruden~e l co~ld be tested very severely,maculate Son of Man lives in the heart of mounted on trestles, in which rested a tiny demanded to know what a son-on-a-bitch and I still can t tell you the conditions under bread; an anonymous wafer carried like a little woman who had retreated from a life like me was doing in the neighborhood, and which I would expose myself to stabbing assmuggler's booty along the sad avenue of that totally snubbed her. I left after a half then they asked me for money. I wasn't a duty imposed on me by my ordination.
lost innocence; the ultimate mystery of the hour, sick at heart for the funeral without frightened, even though I had been mugged But I do know this: there is a strength and hidden and lonely God. mourners, so financially broke I couldn't on a nearby street earlier in the summer, beauty in the Eucharist that brings comfort This was the need of at least one priest afford to buy a solitary rose as a tribute to but I was puzzled to know what I would do if and peace to the aging guys and dolls in the this summer as he hustled up and down the the dead. I couldn't even leave her my they searched me and found the Communion apartments above the streets of Manhattan.
dark stairways of buildings on the west side rosasary, because it was borrowed for the hosts inside my coat. It is a lesson taught by Some of them would rather have Com­of mid-town Manhattan, doubtlessly evening from the housekeeper at the rec­every nun in the grade schools that a munion -than their welfare checks anddeficient in doctrine and filled with a faith tory. zon the way out, I asked the un­Catholic should be cheerfully willing to die welfare is all they have to keep them 'alive. 
met quite stylish enough fQr the Christians dertaker to lay a crucifix on the casket so to defend the host from sacrilege. I knew I It is their faith, as well as my own, thatwho really swing. At times in these squalid that the dead woman would have. some would be greatly admired if I shed my blood makes me happy enough to dance onapartments where ailing and aged people identification with the aloneness in death of right there in the doorway, and might even 


live like prisoners in confined abandonment, the Lord. 

HOUitS, 
MON • tua -THUR .... 
9 AM 5130 PM 
WED -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMI'LErE $PI!ICI'ACLI 
snYICE 
ALL fH ott.'S 
I'IIESCRIPTIONS lfONOI!t 
RoGERS 
Ca/1



Optical 
289-7809
IIOGU A'IWIU • OWHH 

Broadway when I walk up Forty-second 
street in the company of my pocket-size 
GGd. 
be canonized, with my T -shirt distributed as 

Newswriting --Arnst 345 Monday nights 6:30-9:00 
is open to all students interested in writing and reporting 
see Mr. Weber 
American Studies office by Monday 
-


l 4 the observer Friday, September 8, 1972 
Undercuts Bookstore 
'Crypt' records reopens 
BY Don Ruane Observer Staff Reporter The Crypt has once again n·turned to haunt the Notre Dame 
Rookstore with record prices ranging from $3.92 for single albums to $8.55 for triple albums. 
.John Mateja, who graduated in May, opened the Crypt for the third time in two years Wednesday, at tile intersection of Corby St. and ~outh Bend Ave. That's just across the street from Corby's and it is loudly announced by a wall size, black on white sign, 'The Crypt Hecords,' which dominates the ~.hell station parking lot. It is open 
p.m. to 8 p.m. and closed on ~:undays, Tuesdays and home · ootball Saturdays. Tapes will not be carried because local com­petition is too strong. 
The Crypt management hopes to 111ake the stark interior a bit more ('Sthetic and has offered to hang ~.tudent art in any medium from painting to woodcuts to photography. There will be no charge to hang the work which would also be for sale. Should the work be sold, Mateja will claim 20 percent of the sale price. 
The Crypt was first opened in 
Mateja's dormiotory room in late 
1970, with the necessary approval 
from the Vice President for 
Student Affairs. However, his 
operation grew quickly and he was 
mvited to reopen in the basement 
of LaFortune Student Center by 
the Student Union. 
Mateja accepted and opened in 
the central location in time to build 
a thriving business before the fall 
semester ended. 
Come 
Administration Acts 
Come December, Mateja had a letter from the Student and Business affairs offices requesting that the Crypt be discontinued for 
(continued from page 2) 
establish better control over these materials and provides a desirable and relaxed atmosphere for their use. In addition to periodical lit­terature, new books and other current reading will be found in this new area. Copying machinery will also be available. 
The remainder of the first floor will be designated a Reference and Bibliography Room. In it have been assembled all the reference books, encyclopedia, atlases_, etc., which, again, were formerly dispersed in various locations on the first two floors. Bringing together these materials with the Library's card catalog and with other published bibliographies like the British Museum Catalog of Printed Books, the National Union Catalog and other national and trade bibliographies, will yield a functioning unit where in-depth bibliographic research can be conducted. 
The staff feel that it is as im­portant for undergraduates to become familiar with this kind of literature research as it is for graduate students to become proficient in it. Adequate study facilities are also provided in this room. 
The entire second floor of the Memorial Library has been designated as the College Library, and the Reserve Book Room has been moved from the first floor to the space immediately overhead on the second floor. 
The intent of this reorganization is to begin to specialize the College Library as a grouping of books, microfilms and other materials assembled for the support of the course work of the University, both graduate and undergraduate. In this light, the location of the 
•Reserve Book Room in the heart of 
blatantly advertising that it was undercutting Bookstore prices, and for the :Student Union's offer while a similar proposal was tabled by the Student Union Board. The Student Affairs vice president asked that the Crypt be moved back to Lyons Hall, claiming it was out of its sphere, and shouldn't have been started in the first place. 
The official who approved the Crypt originally, admitted he 'didn't ask enough questions' when approached by Mateja, and the issue went to the Student Life Council on the initiative of Student Union. 
The decision stood in the SLC because the body's inability to function effectively, kept the issue from reaching the floor last spring until time was nearly gone. Two motions to extend the meeting were soundly defeated by the administrati.. .. : ~lid sympathetic faculty members. 
So Mateja, now a physics graduate student, decided last summer to open an off-campus shop, in the same vein as Pan­dora's Books, which is operated by a former ND undergraduate, and sells used books. 
Glad It's Over Mateja is glad to be rid of the hassle he had with the ad­ministration. "I get tired of bickering witb the Administration after fighting for two years", he said Wednesday night as a few neighborhood residents browsed through his stack of rock, folk and soul albums. Although Student Union took the issue to the SLC, Mateja often was the only representative of his side to attend the SLC meetings, other than student members of the council, when the issue was on the agenda. Mateja originally intended to un-



Floors rearranged 
the College Library carried out the purpose of course support, since the reserve books are the first requirement of course reading. Supportive and associated reading will also be available in the College Library as will certain ready reference tools like dictionaries, and atlases. 
Students and faculty are asked to be patient during this period of readjustment. The slow pace of budgetary development last spring allowed only a very short time this summer for execution of the planned program of changes, so that the completion of some of these will carry on into the earl~ weeks of the fall semester. It is hoped that these small in­conveniences will be compensated for by future improved public service in the Memorial Library. 
dercut the campus source of records saying in Oct. 1970 that bookstore prices were 'slightly exorbitant for a college and it's about time that this service was established.' He added, 'The prices are too high and can be cut back. If I can afford to sell at cost or less it's obvious they can be cut." 
Mateja's attitude is now ex­panded to include local dealers, not just the Bookstore. 'It's ridiculous to have to pay list prices at AI Smith's, or $4.50 at K-Mart,' he said, adding that he could charge similar prices if he wished. Mateja's prices have risen, but now he must pay rent and utility bills. 
The success of the new Crypt 'all depends on student support,' Mateja said, adding, 'I think more things will open up if these two <Crypt and Pandora's) don't fold.' Although the area is primarily residential, Mateja said there is a large place on Howard Street, and a bam-like structure on South Bend Ave., which housed a food concession, now available that would be good sites for student enterprises. He speculated that tbe barn could be divided by several entrepeneurs and become 11 small 'thieves mmarket.' 

"Come Jn and get ac:quaJnted.·· 
t mile No. of 
241 us 31 

Notre Daine 
2n-1s1o
1A!ndou:s 
• 51'11111 .... J 
._ ...... ­

GUITARS 
Imported from Spain for the discriminating buyer others $19.95 and up for beglnne~ 
GUITAR MUSIC--STRINGS--ACCESSORIES RECORDS Latest LP's and <45's---all discount priced 
PHONOS have your needle checked FREE 
TAP£S-CASSEnES 
FILM-PHOTOFINISHING 
The New 
ALUMNI CLUB 

Clean, close, & cheap Even nice enough to bring a date 
why pay more? 12 oz. BEER -25' 
Fri. & Sat. 4 pm-2 am 

Donation $1.00 MEMBERS FREE 
STUDENT UNION 
Applications are now being accepted for Student 
Union Secretary Student Union offices will be open 1 -5 pm, Mon. -Fri. Anyone interested in helping 
Call 7757 
.. 



15
the observer 

ND offense must produce 
by Vic Dorr 231 l held the position throughout Bullock a 6-1, 221 lb. sophomore spring drills, and will most likely who was impressive during spring 

During the summer months,a 
be the starting center when the prace.

noticeable change was made in the Irish open against Northwestern The key to the success or failurephysical layout of Notre Dame 
on September 23rd. of ND's '72 offense is the quar­

Stadium. A pair of new, modern 
terback position, and the com­

scoreboards were installed, and The "only" loss suffered by ND's 
petition for the signal-caller's job 

they wait new:-dark and silent-for receiving corps was All-American 
has been fierce. Junior Cliff

the September 30th home opener Tom Gatewood, who holds four of 
Brown <6-0, 196), who directed the

against the Purdue Boilermakers. Notre Dame's all-time receiving 
Irish in the last seven games in

During the summer months, too, records. But the Irish have a 
1971. is battling sophomore Tom 

a noticeable change took place talented replacement for 
Clements <6-0, 189l-the hero of the 

within the Irish football program. Gatewood in versatile Willie 
Blue-Gold game--for the starting

Heavy losses to spring graduation Townsend, a 6-3, 196 pount senior. 
berth. and the two were rated even

forced head coach Ara Parseghian Townsend, a varsity reserve for 
at the start of fall practice.

to shift the emphasis within his the past two season, will be backed 
program from defense to offense. by underclassmen Bobby The qb picture has been further Washington (6-0, 173) and Pete clouded by injuries. Minor
"We must be able to develop a Demmerle (6-1, 192). 
mishaps have hobbled Brown, and 

high degree of consistency on 
backups Bill Etter and Bill Nyrop. 

offense." said Parseghian, "to NO's tight end position will be 
Pat Steenberge, who started· two

keep the pressure off a defense manned. as it has been for the past 
games for the Irish last year, has

that will be greatly inex­two years, by senior Mike Creaney 
been lost for season

perienced." l(i-4, ~2>. A good receiver who has the with a 
shoulder separation.
steadily improved as a blocker,Nor was the Irish coach Creaney is another Irish favorite

l'xaggerating. Eight of II defensive In a season that will emphasize
for All-American laurels.

starters graduated last May, and scoring, the Irish will be putting the offensive unit, which will particular emphasis on their
"Creaney is an extraordinary

return eight of its regulars from quarterback. And if the quar­
voung man," commented Par­

the '71 campaign, has become the terback can gell the offense early, 
seghian. "He's an excellent

focal point of the '72 season. the stadium's new scoreboards
blocker, a very dependable Fullback John Cieszkowski will be a key performer as the Irish seek to 
may be quite busy this fall.

receiver, and brings a great and improve their point production in '72.
The Irish offense will be Jed by 
co-captain John Dampeer, a brings a great deal of intelligence
6-3, 
to his position."

~37-pound tackle. Dampeer, a two­
Deadline set

vear monogram winner, will be Creaney has a capable backup in ]oined at the other tackle by junior sophomore Steve Quehl (6-4, 238)llave Casper (6-3, 243). 
but he is lacking experience. 
for lnterhall 

.Junior guard Frank Pomarico Notre Dame's offensive back­



OBSERVER

<ti-l. ~4)) will anchor the interior l"ield. on the other hand, boasts 
football loop

portion of the offensive wall. depth. talent, and experience. Selected bv the Football Writers of fo~ric Penick (ft-1, 195) a i\nll'rica "as a pre-season All­sophomore spring champion who is 
SPORTS 

The lnterhall Athletic Office has plaving time than any other game-breaker, joins senior Darryll 
i\nl('rican. Pomarico logged more rated by many as a potential 
set a September 14th deadline for nwmber of last year's team. flew an <li-0, 204 l and junior Gary 
the submission of rosters for the Filling in at the other guard slot lliminick <5-9, 168) in a battle for 
upcoming interhall football will be sophomore Gerry DiNardo the two halfback posts. season. <fi-1. ~40\, who moved into a 
<ireg Hill <6-1, 187) another lnterhall events scheduled
starting role midway through As in past year, each hall will be spring practice. junior. operated out of the The University's Office of In­of partners must represent the responsible for organizing its own 
\ringback slot for much of spring Athletics scheduled team--including the appointment
terhall has same ahll.

Behind Pomarico and DiNardo practice. but he also could be a 
four events with September entry of coaches and managers--and the 
an• veteran senior John Kondrk (6-challanger for a halfback position. A slow-pitch, 16-inch softball lnterhall office will issue equip­
deadlines.

!i. ~a7l. and junior Tom Bolger (6-2, 
Both of 1971's regular fullbacks tournament has been slated, and ment only after a complete roster
237).. 
A graduate student-faculty its entry deadline is September 17. is submitted.
will be returning for their senior 

tennis tournament has been The single-elimination tournamentThe biggest graduation casualty seasons. Andy Huff (5-11, 212) and planned. and has been given a will be played in four divisions, and 
on the offensive line was center .John Cieszkowski <6-2, 230) will Teams competing in the In­
September 18th entry deadline. will require a $2.00 entry fee. ut
llan Novakov. a two-year stan­share the power-running duties, terhall Leagues will be asked to 
dout. Rut senior Dave Drew (6-2, and they will be backed by Wayne Play in the tourney will be best of will be open to all undergraduate practice at least three times athree sets <singles), and the games studetns. 
week. and are expected to have at
will be scheduled on a weekly 

The formation of graduate least two weeks of practice behind basis. 
school touch football leagues have them before their season openers. A men's doubles tennis tour­also been planned. Rosters are to nament has also been planned, and be submitted to office C-4 in the A physician will be in attendance
The Irish Eye 

it. too. has a September 18th entry A.C.C. Further information on at all interhall games, but the date. Play in the novice-beginners, this, and all interhall events may individual players will be held open-experienced tournament will be obtained at the Interhall Office, respoinsible for any injuries or be best of three sets, and each set or by calling 6101>. medical bills incurred. 
Football picks • • 
Football action Saturday at Notre Dame will be limited to a game-type Youngsters shine zn scrzmmage
scrimmage in the Stadium. Elsewhere across the nation, however, many college teams will be playing "for real." 'lby Jim Donaldson 
score

College football's 102nd season gets underway tomorrow, highlighted ·11 -4o,r Sports F.ditor 
eight possessions. His own 
came on a four-yard run.

by such games as Georgia Tech vs. Tennessee, Alabama vs. Duke, and 
Notre Dame's football team will 
The defensive play of youngGrambling vs. Morgan State. Nebraska sets out after its third straight 

depend heavily on its young 
Niehaus, a 6-4, 265-pound giantnational title, meetingUCLA,while Toledo, boasting the country's lon~est 

ballplayers this fall and, if a trio 
· from Cincinnati, brought praiseconsecutive win streak, 35 games, attempts to extend that string agamst 

who have yet to play their first 
from Parseghian. "We wanted to

Thmpa. . . . varsity game continue to perform see with first
him the unit,"Once again, national interest will center on the question o~ JUSt ~ho IS 

as they did in Wednesday's game­
Parseghian said, "and from what I number one. And, again, the Irish Eye will try to tab the wmners m the 

type scrimmage, the Irish may not 
could see on the field I liked what I top games on the weekend's schedule. This is the way things appear to 

have much to worry about. saw. He is performing ex­shape up prior to the first kickoff of the year: 
Sophomores Tom Clements and 
ceptionally well for a freshman."

Alabama over Duke-The Blue Devils will be left high and dry by the 
Eric Penick and freshman Steve 
Plaudits are nothing new forCrimson Tide. 

Niehaus looked sharp as coach Ara 
Niehaus, who was twice named aOregon over Missouri-The Tigers are still trying to grow claws after 

Parseghian put his club through a 
high All-American

last year's 1-10 record. . . school at
two-hour workout in Notre Dame 
Moeller voted

North Carolina over Richmond-The Tar Heels will step on the Sp1ders. and was the top
Stadium. 
lineman in Ohio last year.

Auburn over Mississippi St.--Beasley and Sullivan are gone but the 
Clements, in the midst of a battle 
SCANNING THE SCRIM-

Tigers still have enough left to beat the Bulldogs. . . 
for the starting quarterback job 
MAGE: Halfback Greg Hill joinedWest Virginia over Villanova-The Mountameers seldom lose m 

with junior Cliff Brown, ran the 
Brown on the sidelines Wednesday. 

Morgantown. 
number one offense Wednesday 
· The speedy junior suffered bruised Grambling overMorgan State-Grambling has its usual allotment of 

while Brown sat on the sidelines 
ribs in Tuesday's practice ... Frosh future pros. 

with an injured ankle. Making the 
quarterback Rich Slager conbined 

Tennessee over Georgia Tech-Soph phenom Condredge Holloway 
most of his opportunity, Clements 
with junior wide receiver Bobbyturned down a big baseball contract to quarterback the Vols. He'll begin 

accounted for four touchdowns, 
Washington for the longest gain ofhis bid for a hefty grid pact tomorrow. , . 

passing for three scores and 
the scrimmage, a 56 yard pass play Wake Forest over Davidson-The Deacons don t have much. DaVIdson 

running for one six-pointer. 
that carried to the four yard

doesn't have anything. . 
Penick, who combines good size 
line ... Soph Chuck Kelley reachedArizona over Colorado State-This just might be the year that Arizona 

with explosive speed, continued to 
paydirt on the next play, the onlyreplaces Arizona State atop the Western Athleti~ Co~erence. 

ramble for big gains and scored a 
touchdown given up by the number Kansas over Washington State-The Cougars, g1ant killers last season, touchdown on run,

a nine-yard 
one defense...Quarterback Bill

were hurt badly by graduation. The pass-conscious Jayhawks loom the 
while Niehaus, working with the 
Nyrop picked up a rib injury to gofavorite. 

numbe~; one defense for the first 
with his sore thumb when he wasNebraska over UCLA-The mighty Cornhuskers will win pig. 

time, made numerous tackles. 
banged hard by linebacker TimHouston over Rice-The Cougars are hunting for their seventh con­

Clements completed 10 of 15 
Sullivan ... Linebackers Mike Webb

secutive year in the top twenty. Beating Rice would be a good way to Tom Clements
passes· against the second defense 
and Tom Devine are plagued with start. 

Wednesday, including seven in a 

Willie Townsend and Mike knee problems ... Bill Etter, back in Colorado over California-Cal figures to be the first victim in the '72 
row in the second quarter, Creaney were Clements' primary action directed
Buffalo stampede. once again, the
prompting Parseghian to remark 

targets. Townsend caught scoring first offense on a touchdown drive, ·Florida State over Pittsburgh-The Seminoles should tame the Pan­afterwards, "Clements had a fine passes of 10 and 36 yards from the taking the team 39 yards in eightthers. 
day. I was encouraged by his 

soph signal caller and Creaney plays...Ken Schlezes, Reggie
Upset of the Week: His was
performance. passing hauled in a TD toss of 12 yards. Barnett and Mike Townsend were
Tampa over Toledo-"Fabulous Freddie" Solomon and the Spartans was very
very sharp today-he All in all, Clements directed the working together in the firstcan thrill the home crowd by stopping Toledo's lengthy winskein. 
much on target." first offense to five touchdowns in defense's secondary. 

........ 
• 
A ~ 

--~ ­
the observer Friday, September 8, 1972
16 

Applications are now being accepted for positions on
Major concerts announced 



Hy .JI'annt' Murphy 
Obst>rvt>r Staff Reporter 
The sounds of Chicago will rock the walls of the Convocation Center on Saturday, September 30. The concert will highlight the events of l'urdue weekend, the first home football weekend of the season. 
Hick Donovan, concert director for Student Union. has organized a series of major concerts for the fall. A concert with Seals and Croft on Friday. September 16 will be opl'ning the new year's concert sch(•dule in Stepan Center. 
Another important date on the Student Union calendar is a bus trip on October 7 to the Michigan State game. Tickets, tran­sportation. and meals are included in the $17 fee. 
October 13 and 14 mark Homecoming weekend which features Guess Who in concert. A prohibition party is planned for Friday night in Stepan Center 

WANTED
_W_E_h_a_v_e_t_h_e_m_!----~~~/_,-­
performance. Choose 
Tailored with a flare. dry. See it soon. 
from $14 
Your store in style, 

..... 
Pay l;3 in January l;3 in February V3 in March 
You pay no interest or carrying charge on this exclusive Campus Shop way to buy. 

• 
· including a sandwhich dinner and beverages. For each bid pur­chased, two game tickets are received, but the offer is limited to 250 couples. More details on Homecoming will be announced at a later date. , 'We need a lot of help for working on Homecoming this year,' claims Joe Proschaska, Social Com­missioner. John Voll and Jim Rybarczak are also coordinating this eventful weekend, and they hope other students offer their assistance in making Homecoming a huge success. On October 26, Jack White, the talented billiards player and trick­shot artist will display his abilities at the pool table in La Fortune Student Center's billiar room. Following his stint, White will perform at the Senior bar in the evening. The Texas Christian game makes way for the Steven Stills 
~ ..,~ ~·i~ 
.; 

Position open Assistant debate coach Must be Grad. student and 11ave had extensive experience in Collegiate debate. Send a short resume, by Wed. September 13, of 
debate and academic background to Norm Lerum, Box 89, N.D. Indiana. 
l ~-I 

Wanted: One or two female roomies for Notre Dame Apts. Contact K. Ostermeyer in Bldg. 832 Apt. 4C. No phone yet. 
Need tickets for Purdue. Call 
Walt. 6804. 

Need 2 General admission tickets for Purdue. Call 4505. 
Wanted: To buy, borrow, or rent a flexible 35mm single reflex camera. Call John 8578. 
Need motorcycle. Marty 3316. 
Houseparents. A married couple to live in home for girls. Only requirement is desire to help pre· delinquents. A team approach, many supportive people around you. Free room and board (incl. dishes, linens, etc.) plus $100 per month. Weekends off. Vacinity of campus. 233-9491. 
. . Classified Ads are now being accepted for any edition of the Observer. The next publication is Wednesday, September 6, 1972. Deadline for publication of a classified is 1: oo pm the day before publication. 
Some categories for Ob­server Classified Ads include: Want Ads, For Sale Ads, For Rent Ads, Travel Ads, Notices, and Personals. The Observer reserves the right to reject any objectionable Classified Ad request. Rates for classifieds are printed at the right. 
All Classified Ads are paid for in advance at the Observer office, second floor of La Fortune Student Center. For further information call 
7471. 
' 

The University Judicialconcert on October 27, while Yes continues the festivities after the Miami game on November 18. 
Board and
The Union has added a new line of entertainment this year. Small informal concerts every two weeks 

The University Traffic in the middle of the week are planned to relieve the tensions of 
Appeals Board
the academics and to provide a freer and friendlier atmosphere. 

CONTACT Greg Smith 
Rap Center presents special park festival 
Notre Dame 
J<'ive Bands including The 

Student Government 
Chosen Few will be featured Sunday. Sept. 10 in Howard Park 

Notre Dame, Indiana 
as the Rap Center presents "The Last Concert." Music is free and natural food will also be 
46556 
distributed to all who attend. 
Organizers of the concert hope to 
use the event to stir voter 
registration in the South Bend 

C.I.L.A. Picnic 
area. Opportunities will be 
provided for those who wish to 
register to vote . 

4 pm Sunday Dr. Knight dies 
outside
Dr. P. Leonard Knight, professor of biology at St. Mary's, died suddenly in his Granger, Indiana home on Sunday, July 16. 
Knight was born on June 10, 1921 

Holy Cross Hall 
in South Portland, Maine, and studied at Bates College in Maine and the University of Notre Dame. Fron 1944-1946 he served as a naval lieutenant (jg) in the Pacific 

A SOUND 
theatre. After holding teaching positions at Holy Cross School of 
OFFER 
Nursing and Indiana University in South Bend, he came to St. Mary's, 

Make money "repplng" en Ohlo·b!lsed distributor of femous neme audio and stereo equipment on your campus. Everybody likes music, so your job
where he taught Animal Mor­

is really easy. You run your own thing and earn good bread if you do it
phology, Histology, Physiology, 

right. We think this is a damn good otter, and we'll back it up. It's more 
and Principles of Biology lab. 

than just a sales job ...... it's a guarantee of an exclusive franchise on your 
campus. You get all the action yourself. And you'll get our help every step 
of the way. No investment required. 
He was a member of Signa Xi, 
Moose Lodge, and the· Indiana 

Interested? ? ?
Academy of Science. Several of his 

WRITE TODAY. P.O. Box 46167 
articles appeared in-the Journal of 

We'll be in touch. Bedford Heights, Ohio 44146 
Nutrition, the Journal of Ex­pt>rimental Medicine, and Ex­pt>rientia. 
Knight is survived by his wife, the former Dorothy Greer of South Bend, his parents, two sons, three 

CLASSIFIED ADS
daughters, a grandson, and a brother. Funeral services were 
held in the ctiapel of Regi,la Hall at St. Mary's. 

Student to manage small business. No selling. Short hours. 
$300 $600 a month. Write IN F, Box 508, Boulder, COLO 80302. Include a few personal details. 
Nl'ed Purdue tix. Will pay your price. Call 7819, 7812, or 7471. 
NOTICE 

Walt's Discount, 738 12 South 
Michigan.  Small  doors  and  
shelving, good for desk tips.  289·  
3380.  

Morrissey Loan Fund now open to ND students. Borrow up to $150. 11:15-12:15 Monday thru Friday. 
Basement of LaFortune. 

Time . Life . Sports Illustrated at the lowest student rates. 283·8323! 
RECYCLED BOOKS SAVE TREES AND YOUR MONEY 
Pandora has used books for: Am Sf 381; Art 151; Col Sem 321; Educ 503; Engl 109, 180, 185, 311, 320, 322, 345, 351, 381, 383, 386, 404, 445, 460, 482m, 494,620, 674n, 681; GP 281, 381. 481; Govt 342, 418; Hist 111. 227, 311, 351m, 365, 367, 44lm, 511; Clas Lang 400, 464; Mod Lang 
493;  Phil  101, 201, 254, 255b, 275,  
345;  Soc  227;  Theo  106, 107, 200,  
208,  217,  240,  243;  and  many  

others. 

20.000 books in stock, three day special order service. Buy, sell, trade. Pandora's Books 5 blocks south of campus on Notre Dame Avenue POpen noon to midnight 
Rooms lor rent. Cheap. Near. 233­1329. 
Words Ida 2da 3da 4da 5da 1·10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21·25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26·30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31·35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36·40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41·45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 






