On The Inside 

Woman's caucus at ND...page 3 
McGovern Teach-in...page 2 
~-~-~---­
~~-~----~­
~-------­



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol VII No. 34 
Wednesday, October 25, 1972 
Profs favor vote for students in Council 
by David Rust Staff Reporter 
Speaking of the "spirit" of the Faculty Senate's recommendations to the Academic Council concerning Faculty Manual revision, and of University governance, both English department chairman Edward Vasta and Economics department chairman Dennis Dugan announced support of the Senate revisions' proposed make-up of the Academic Council. 
The new formula, part of a body of Senate recommendations accepted Monday by the Council for discussion, reduces the Council to 40 members, including six voting student members. 
This is in opposition to the Council steering 


Dugan: "restricted student membership 'just incredible"' three student members suggested non-votmg. Vasta and Dugan share the belief that the 
steering committee's recommendation should not be allowed to pass, and they back the Senate's suggestion. 
"It's quite obvious that in the Senate ver­sion students are meant to be there," Vasta said. From the steering committee's revisions, Vasta went on, "Students serve only as consultants. Whether they vote or not is then trivial--the fact that the issue of voting is even left to discussion should make that apparent." 
The whole matter is largely a question of "spirit" to Vasta. 
''By 'spirit' I'm not talking about motivations of people," explained the English dept. chairman. "I'm simply speaking of the connotations or implications of the language. And I'm not saying that the administration is being malicious or trying to impose parochialism on the intellectual growth of the University." 
What is it that Vasta sees in the spirit of the Senate's proposal that makes him favor it over the steering committee's? 
"Whatever the math may look like," said Vasta, "whatever the theoretical possibilities of structure, I'm convinced that the Senate version in spirit aims at an open and relaxed style of University government, one that is both fair and committeed." 
This is as opposed to the other set of revision suggestions which, in Vasta's words, "tends to be negative and restraining faculty and student contributions." 
Vasta included another reason for his backing of the Senate set, this centered in the Council's balance. 
"The practical nature of the Council," analysed Vasta, "is such that an equal proportion of administration to faculty members makes the administration predominant in the Council." 
This is true, believes Vasta, because ad­ministrators "have the advantage" in University councils concerned with gover­nance by their prerogative of being able to see the proposals beforehand, being able to un­derstand machinery and tactics, and "ten­ding to think and vote homogenously," a direct contrast to the almost always less­than-unanimity of faculty and students. 
The practical consequence, summed up Vasta, is that "evr when the proportion <between faculty au administration) is equal in numbers, the a ninistration always has the advantage." 
With a numerical faculty preponderance, concluded Vasta, there is a continuous possibility that the six-man student con­tingent could pick up the slack, either in debate or in actual voting. 
"By pushing the faculty (representation total on the Council) higher," said Vasta, "the students have the chance to take command." This could be both a "disadvantage and ad­vantage," Vasta admitted, but he believes it would work itself out during the decision­making. 
Economics department chairman Dugan's somewhat more strongly voiced feelings bear similarities to Vasta's. Vasta's "spirit" is reflected in Dugan's "governance-in­context" concept. 
"(The Academic Council) is a major decision-making body of the University," said Dugan. "What it all gets down to in my mind is the governance idea--not coming down from on high and permeating the University structure, but the result of the inteaction between the different <University) parties that is supposed to be taking place in the educational processes." 
In way of contrast he referred to the steering committee's manual revision, which introduces the idea of governance to the manual for the first time by "sticking one paragraph under the heading 'Section 2' and confining it to <the legalism of) statutes, charters and bylaws." 
In the steering committee's revision ver­sion, continued Dugan in relation to the student membership issue, the limitation of students, who he claimed the committee says are to be "non-voting" (that adjective is bracketed in the Committee report), is a reflection of the idea that decision-making should be a vertical process, passed down through a legally defined channel to those on the bottom. 
Dugan finds the restricted student-to­general-membership ratio called for in the committee report "just incredible. Down to three--why, that makes them observers, not participants." 


Vasta: "the students have a chance to take 
command." 
Responding to comments by some sup­

porters of the steering committee sugestions 
who charge that student have not, in the two 
r.ears .they've been allowed membership, 
contributed much" to the Council, Dugan 

said that they haven't had time to get out 
from under the "mildly intimidating" at­.mosphere the Council generates. 
"I can understand how the student feel," 

said Dugan, when they sit for the first time 
with administrators and faculty to make 
decisions affecting the future of the Univer­
sity. (continued on page 7) 
Lathers,Waltman 

and McDonnell 
-

w1n SLC primary 
Patti Shea Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame women students chose Maureen Lathers, Diane McDonnell, and Janet Waltman as final candidates for a seat on the Student Life Council in a primary election held yesterday in Badin and Walsh halls. 
A petition making this seat temporary also received support in Badin and Walsh last night. This petition will come before the SLC at its next meeting. 
Lathers, Badin hall sophomore, headed the list of six candidates with 53 votes. McDonnell, a Walsh junior, received 44, and Waltman, a Badin junior, had 36 votes. 
Candy Kelly, Kris Anhut and Debbie Dell split the remaining 15 votes. 
Less than half of the 329 women students at Notre Dame voted according to election results tabulated by a student government election committee. 
"Meet the Candidates" discussion has been organized by the three winners at 11 p.m. tonight in the food sales lounge of Badin hall. Each of the candidates will present her election goals and answer questions of women students, prior to the final election on,Thurs­
,day. 
"Mter over a hundred years of wholly male thinking, I think it's necessary to have a woman's voice in student government," commented McDonnell. 
She felt that the female SLC seat would be necessary for one year "until the coeducation is more complete." 
Lathers agreed that the women student SLC seat should be temporary. "The seat was created to allow woman students representation and to allow them to work with faculty and administration, and it shouldn't be regarded as a token seat," she stressed. 
Third candidate Janet Waltman was unavailable for comment. 
Norling, Houck 
•
debate Issues 
by Pete McHugh Staff Reporter 
History Professor Bernard Norling and Management professor John Houck debated the ~candidacies of Richard Nixon and George McGovern last night in the chapel of Lyons Hall. ' 
Norling spoke first and immediately presented two major considerations for his position: that in most elections a person will vote for the less of two evils, and that practical politicians know that more people vote against a candidate than for his opponent. 
"This election is no exception," he said. 
Speaking before 40 people in the basement chapel, he admitted that Nixon:s domestic policies have been very unsuccessful. He cited the $25-30 billion dollar national deficit, the wage and price controls, and the removal of the United States from the gold exchange 
.... .... . ..... .... .... . . •••..•...
. ... .. . .. . . . . . .
. . ........ . ... .. . . . 
• 0 •••••••••••••••• 0 •• , ••••••••••••••••••••••• ••••••••••••
.... . .. .... .. ... . .
. . .. .. . ... .. . . .
.... . .. .. . ...... . . . .... 
market. 

As to the alleged corruption in the Nixon ad­mimintration, he said that if Nixon and his associates were ordinary citizens they would be guity of theft and embezzlement. Instead they are called statemen like John_son, Kennedy, and Eisenhower, who according to Norhng also had corruption in their administration. 
Despite these allegations, he feels that Nixon has "two solid domestic policies." He stated that these positive aspects of the Republicans are the elimination of the "utopian talk of Johnson" and the "replacement of four sociologists with four judges" on the Supreme Court. 
He also described the foreign policy of Nixon as far superior to McGovern's. He referred to Nixon's stand on September 19, 1970 when he activated U.S. armed forces in the,event Russian tanks crossed the Syrian border into Jordan. 
He stated that this stand is the chief reason for the unusual Jewish support of the President which ac­cording to the polls amounts to 30 per cent of that minority. Describing the Soviet withdrawal from that boundary, he stressed, "Nixon understands quite well 
(continued on page 7) 
r--------------~---------------------------~ 
Wednesday, October 25, 1972

the observer
2 

warld briefs 
(c> 1972 New York Times 
Saigon-President Nguyen Van Thieu, in a nationwide television speech, told the South Vietnamese Tuesday night that all the peace proposals discussed by Henry A. Kissinger, the President's National Security Adviser, and the North Vietnamese in Paris so far were unacceptable and -in an ambiguous statement -said that there were great difficulties in the way of a cease-fire. 
Washington--The White House ordered a temporary cessation of all bombing north of the 20th Parallel in North Vietnam, administration sources disclosed. The move was said to be designed as a signal to the leadership in Hanoi that Washington appreciates the concessions that it has made in recent secret negotiations. 
New York--Jackie Robinson, the black athlete who in 1947 broke baseball's color line against negro players in the major leagues with the Brooklyn Dodgers and won his way into the Sport's Hall of Fame, suffered a heart attach and died at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 53 years old. President Nixon joined with baseball figures in mourning the great athlete's death. 
Tampa, Fla.-A 26-year old Tampa secretary has acknowledged that she was part of a Republican scheme to sabotage the presidential campaign of Sen. Edmund S. Muskie in Florida last year. The secretary, Miss Patricia E. Griffin, said she had served as a Muskie volunteer to carry out the anti-Muskie effort and told a Tampa newsman that she reported to Robert Benz in Tampa who, in turn, reported to Donald H. Segretti in California. 
Washington -A Supreme Court action upheld the authority of the United States Archives to keep secret some of the autopsy materials and other items relating to the assasination of President John F. Kennedy. In a brief order, the court declined to review an appeal filed by Dr. John Nichols, a University of Kansas pathologist. 

on c:ampu• tiMI.,. 
6:30 meeting, sailing club, 204 engineering, all those interested please attend 
7:00 
spanish tutorial, regina ha11 lobby

7:00 
meeting, mcgovern supporters, tom dooley room, Iafortune 

7:00 
meeting, girls interested in officiating at irish swimming meets, rm. 216, Rockne memorial building 


7:30 
meeting, Philosopher's Circle, stapleton lounge, saint mary's 

7:30 
lecture, "meatheads: a way of life," patrick gallagher, Indiana criminal justice agency, carroll hall 


8:00 teach-in, for mcgovern, tom dooley room, Iafortune 
8:15 concert, marjorie hayward-madey, soprano, program of poulenc songs, library auditorium, free 
at nd-•mc 
225 campuses to participate 




McGovernites plan teach-in 

McGovern Headquarters, in LaFortune. This program will follow a regular meeting for McGovern campaign workers. Both students and faculty will speak and a filmstrip will be presented. 
McGovern workers also plan various programs throughout the week in several hall lounges. 
The organization will host an all night monster movie extravaganza this Saturday from 1 am until6 am in the LaFortune ballroom. It also plans to convass this Sunday af­ternoon in Niles. Volunteers are needed for this, as well as for a 
planned phone canvassing on 
Philosophers' Circle 
at SMC to discuss 

God and morality 
"God and Morality" will be the 
topic to be tackled by Saint Mary's 
Philosopher's Circle at their 
meeting tonight at 7:30 in 
Stapleton Lounge. 
Aspects of this question which 
will be covered include "Does 
morality presuppose God?" and 
"If there is no God, is everything etection day, according to an organization spokesman. In­terested persons should stop by the Tom Dooley room for information. 

Local organizers are also recruiting supporters to travel to Chicago on Nov. 1 to participate in a candlelight march through downtown Chicago. McGovern, Sen. Edward Kennedy and Mayor Richard Daley are scheduled to speak at the rally. 
Active College Program Weekly activities & Bible study Everyone Welcome 
Call: 272-2010 272-2153 283-7986 
Transportation Available Grace Baptist Church 19637 DuBois Sunday School .. -9:30am Morning Worship ... 10:30 am 

S H u L A 


H u L A 
s 
You're all -set to do some moving. 
We know how you get around 
Got to understand us when we're saying 
You need a place to lay it down. If you're 18, do some looking 
Got to stop that heavy booking. 

~ vl\lite C/u~ 


'S H 
u 
L 

2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
A 

Phone 683-4350 
H U L A 'S 

Some''How comes?'' about shaving, answered: 
How come I can't get a close shave? 
How come my chin and upper lip are harder to shave? 
How come I get a lot of irritation and nicks? 
Maybe you should take your clothes off first. Showering before you shave will soften your beard even more. Lots of hot water and soap is the key to a better shave. 
That's where whiskers grow the most. Always shave there last. The longer lather is on whiskers, the softer they become. 
Every stroke of your razor scrapes away skin cells. So use gentle strokes (and as few as possible) in the direction your beard grows. Never press too hard with your razor. 
Whatever bugs you about shaving, ENGLISH LEATHER POWER FOAM SHAVE CREAM can help de-bu,g it. We know shaving won't ever be fun.But at least we can help make it a little nicer to face the day. 
Inglish leather.* 
---------------------~-~---­
Caucusunites University women 
,1 
,
, 
Wednesday, October 25, 1972 

3 

and professional women of Notre eluded: Saskia Sassen-Koob, of women in three ways: as placesby Marty Miller What Broe foresees as a goal for related an Dame last week. (Tapes of the Vittoria Bosco, Anne Arbour and in hierarchy jn the University, as Staff Reporter ~he caucus to ob­conference can be obtained from Ann Dunne from St. Mary's. far as our tones and attitudes, and servation made by Dr. Gordon in
"We exist for the personal Sue Roberts, university om­Sassen-Koob commented, our interests in the group," Broe 
an Observer article, that there is

education of women and the budswomen.) The caucus will "Given the present need for commented.
not enough exchange between

general benefit of the University at finalize plans for their com­visability and accessability, the In a final comment, Broe added 
different levels of University

large in such a time of critical munication and public relations place is convenient. Right now we that "It is imperative to elasticize 
hierarchy, such as administration,

change," said Mary Lynn Broe, programs and a report from the need a place where we can provide some of the limited attitudes and
faculty, staff, graduate students 

one of three organizers of the Committee on Under­materials, pbst announcements concepts concerning women to
and undergraduates.

newly formed Notre Dame Representation of Women at the and check the progress of com­ensure that by correcting some of
"I think the Women's Caucus

Women's Caucus. University will be presented. mittee work. It will be used as a the factual inequities that now 
can be a model for this sort of

The Women's Caucus is aimed at The Draft-Counseling Center, clearing house for information and exist, the better representation of
exchange in microcosm for the

uniting the small and widely located on the main floor of the assistance." women at all levels will continue..
· 
University at large," Broe added. 

scattered group of women in the Library, was made available to the The group will meet again on that it will not be a boon awarded 
"It can be a lively and productive 

university and solidifying their Women's Caucus from 9 a.m. to 6 Sunday, October 29, at 7 p.m. in for the amount of noise made by
example of all the ranks and levels 

attitudes and interests. p.m. during this week. The Caucus Badin Chapel. Itwill be chaired by women in one particular
of the University interacting." 

"Women, in uniting, can not only will use this "Women Center" as a an undergraduate, Kathy situation_"
The agenda for the upcoming

get aware of stereotyped images gathering place for the exchange Osberger, a graduate student in
meeting will include a recording

and attitudes that do exist but also of ideas and a place where Theology, Anne Jones, and a Local Right to Live 
which was part of "Women, Higher 

can mutually realize how they literature and information can be faculty member, Susan Taub,
Education and the Law," an In­

themselves have internalized these :>btained. Members of "Women assistant professor of Psychology. committee to meet
dianapolis conference, that was

dominant attitudes about women," Center" search committee in-"We represent a complete range 
attended by many of the faculty

said Broe. The St. Joseph County Right to Life Committee will hold its monthly general meeting Thurs­day, October 26 at 8:00pm in the St. Joseph National Branch Bank, by Jim Eder absent" from the foreign policies He argued, however, that "such United States after it h&d seceded Darden Road and U.S. 31. On the Observer Staff Reporter of the Johnson and Nixon ad­cooperation is insufficient and does from the Union. "In Latin program for this meeting will be a ministrations. "I am aware of the not even begin to compensate for America as in the Deep South we presentation by the educational 
Accusing the United States of skepticism reigning in important the losses entailed by falling prices find the after-effects of slavery, a committee given by the Chair­being "unmoved" by the ap­circles of this country with relation for raw materials and the con­plantation ,economy and woman, Mrs. Kathleen Fisher. parently "insoluble problems" of to Latin America. But as a Latin stantly increasing trade imbalance agricultural production for foreign its Latin American neighbors, Dr. American, I cannot accept such a between developed and un­markets, without the com­
Brazil ex-president notes problems 
But, despite all the negative in­Juscelino Jubitschek, former fatalistic attitude in the face of a derdeveloped nations." pensatory benefits of an in­fluences mentioned above, morepresident of Brazil (1956-1961), challenge to our talent for coor­Kubitschek attributed the dustrializing, capitalistic society enlightened Latin Americans have addressed a crowd of about 200 in dinated thought and action." present political instability of like that of the Puritan Yankees of always insisted that economicthe Memorial Library Auditorium The former Brazilian president many Latin American countries to New England. One-crop development could and should belast night. agreed that some agencies, such as -their "desperate recourse to un­agriculture and slavery created an matched by social reforms andKubitschek said that following the Alliance for Progress, the democratic solutions" as the only extremely backward social public liberties."
the "premature interruption" of Peace Corps, and the In­way out of economic and social structure, still very resistant to As the three greatest successesits participation in John F. Ken­teramerican Development Bank, crises. change .... This social and historial of his administration, Kubitscheknedy's "New Frontier," Latin did open up "new channels and Kubitschek compared Latin background is scarcely conducive cited the industrialization ofAmerica has been "conspicuouslv prospects for cooperation." America with the South of the to the development of democracy. 
Brazil, the construction of a new national capital and "the op­timism, hope and faith" in
• 

democracy that resulted from the
Faccenda pra1ses SLC enthusiasin 
two former feats. Mter Kubitschek had finished his lecture the floor was opened for 
by Kathy Kelly will have to prove its ability to findings by the end of November. In reference to the various questions. Several members of the Staff Reporter 
work decisively. Faccenda At that point, Faccenda hopes to proposals for renovation of audience were upset and objected views the tormat of the SLC as one being conferences and "zero in on LaFortune, Faccenda pointed out when the ex-president refused to The Student Life Council, that is best suited for the "diffusion entertain questions dealing with
some specific problems involved." the need for study before action. It 
shortage of on-campus housing, of confrontation" and named 1968-
past or present politics. Kubit­
has been suggested that the money 
and LaFortune renovations were 69 as the most effective year might be better spent if schek, however, reasoned that as a among the subjects of Phillip because it dealt with immediate, former president he must guard
distributed among the residential 
Faccenda 's discussion with twelve as opposed to long-range, plans. his statements as would an am­
halls, thus making the various 
students in Fisher Hall Lounge last Regarding the special election bassador even though he is not
dorms the center of social 
night. being held for a women acitivites. formally speaking for his govern-
While Faccenda, as the Vice­representative on the SLC, Fac­ment. ' President of Student Mfairs, did cenda pointed out the fact that it not wish to prejudice committee was proposed by the student findings on the subject of co­members for this year only. 

Etienne namesCommittee 
residential dorms, and the When questioned about the criterion to be used in forciqg &Ome housing shortage, he replied, "they students to live off-campus, he did won't make the same mistake next 

onUnorthodox Privateering 
clarify his views on severaf issues. year". He discussed the problems 
Concerning the SLC, Faccenda involved in establishing a criterion expressed "strong hopes" that this for forcing some students to live Prompted by complaints from list, although all members in his year's council will prove off-campus but declined to give his students unhappy with their halls' task group have added new areas productive. A member of the own preference. food sales services, student of concern to the pre-questionnaire Council since its inception, he cited Faccenda also declined to government vice-president Dennis list. the enthusiasm of its members and comment on co-residential Etienne formally announced "No accusations will be leveled the fact that this is the first Council housing. However, he mentioned Freshman Office yesterday the creation of a right now," said Hess. "We just to meet weekly and to begin the that he will be writing a letter at Committee on Unorthodox want to know how the students year with an agenda of "positive" the end of this week to the three plans breakfast Privateering <C.O.U.P.) to "in­feel." issues to be settled. separate committees studying the vestigate unreasonable profits Members of the committee are 
Faccenda termed this year a issue. In the letter, he will ask made by students at the expense of coordinators Hess and Fromm;
Parents of freshman will be
"test" year for the SLC because it them to correlate their various other students." campus media repr~sentatives
treated to a continental breakfast 
The committee will hold its first David Rust (Observer), Brian
and reception Saturday morning 
meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the Deffinbaugh <WSND) and a
from 9:30 to 11:00 in the main 
student governent offices at Scholastic representative to be
ballroom of LaFortune. All fresh­

YVP express optimism 
LaFortune. announced; student government
man year counsellors and some 
Etienne chose executive coor­associate treasurer Mike
teachers will be present.

With slightly less that two weeks thoughts, "I definitely think he dinator Mike Hess and former Geisinger; John Doellmann
''This is an opportunity for fresh­
left to go in the 1972 Presidential (Nixon) will carry the campus." Walsh Hall president Dave Fromm <Morrissey), Paul Slaggert and 
men to introduce their parents to
campaign, the ND-SMC chapter of He attributed this to the great to coordinate the committee's Frank Guarreri (Cavanaugh) and
their counsellors and many of their 
the Young Voters for the President number of Democratic votes ex­activities, which will include Bob Maykuth (Keenan).
teachers," explains Emil T.
is optimistic. This was the im­pected for Nixon, since the Notre research into hall taxes and Other members will probably be
Hofman, dean of the Freshman
pression at the campus meeting of Dame community, and St. student concessions, as well as hall added in the near future. C.O.U.P.
Year of Studies. · 

YVP last night in LaFortune Joseph's County, are traditionally food sale prices and profits. invites student suggestions as to
Hofman is hoping that parents
Student Center, where final plans considered to be heavily Hess relayed Etienne's feeling areas of investigation through
attending the ND-Texas Christian 
were made for the remaining days Democratic. that the new C.O.U.P. is "pretty Hess in the student government
football game will stop by before
before the election. He admitted that a few big high on the student government offices.
the game. Advance ticket
Dianne Cole, subbing for Co­speakers to answer the Kennedy priority list."
registration dubbed this weekend
Chairmen Bruce and Jan Callner, and Shriver visits here would help "C.O.U.P. is one of the Kersten
"Notre Dame Parents Weekend."
at l<~st· night's meeting, stated, "I Nixon a lot, but further com­administration's first major at­
"This is officially called Parents
really do believe there is a silent mented that since Indiana as a tempts at serving the students,"
Weekend, but nobody seems to
majority on this campus, and it state went strongly for Nixon both said Hess.
know what that means. The Sports 
will show up on Election Day." in last spring's primary and in '68 C.O.U.P. will begin its in­
Department named the weekend. 
Although she claimed personally election, it apparently isn't vestigation by drafting a
We are taking advantage of the
not to be a big believer in polls (her receiving much attention from the questionnaire to be distributed to
opportunity to meet the parents,"
estimate was a 5-point edge for national Nixon campaign all students in order to determine 
says Hofman.

Nixon here), she has based her headquarterrs. exactly what problems students
Newsletters, sent to parents of
optimism instead upon the con­Cole warned last night's feel exist. The committee is
freshmen by Hofman, invited all
versations and contact she has had gathering not to view the cam­shooting for a 'deadline of the
the parents to the breakfast and
with students on both campuses. paign as "being over." middle of next week on the
reception. Hofman has already
She felt that Vietnam is still the The latest McGovern $2 million questionnaire.
received replies from about one
main issue with young voters, and media blitz and a creeping feeling Hess' committee will then
hundred families.

that most people agreed with the of over-confidence are the main evaluate the results and begin
"This idea is new," says Hof­
way Pres. Nixon has handled it. sources of potential "damage" to investigation of those problems
man, "and we hope it becomes a
Leo Buchignani, a VYP com­the President's wide lead in the which recur most often. He
tradition for parents of freshmen."
mittee chairman, echoed these polls, according to Cole. believes that food sales will top the 


Dut DnThe Weekend






THE OBSERVER 
On bulls and
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 

birth control 
News: 283-1715 Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, EditoriaI: 283-8661 
on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the 
bab hi'llrJin• Business: 283-7471 individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
"There comes a time in each man's lire, when he must take the bull by Wednesday, October 25, 1972 the tail and face the situation." W. C. Fields 

SMC &the Observer 
Three weeks ago, Saint Mary's Student Assembly passed a motion which would appropriate $2,878 (or $2.00 per student) in Student Government funds to the Observer for distribution of the newspaper on campus. One week later, for some mysterious reason, that same assembly decided that their action had been "hasty", and tabled the motion. 
What it all boils down to is this: that Saint Mary's up till now has been receiving the Observer without charge this semester. Last year, a $1.50 sub­scription option--50 cents less than Notre
r Dame--was placed on each students bill. Last year at the December Board of 
r Trustees meeting, the Trustees 
r eliminated the Observer subscription fee 
r from the St. Mary's bilL The Observer went before the Assembly three weeks ago to solicit compensation for several weeks of free service plus subscription money for the remainder of the year. After a presen­tation of facts and figures and some discussion, the petition was approved, only to be reconsidered and "tabled" the following week. The final decision will probably be made today. If Saint Mary's students cannot pay for 
the Observer, itis unreasonable to expect Notre Dame undergraduates to subsidize circulation at Saint Mary's. It is also unreasonable to expect full coverage of Saint Mary's events. No stable business can function on charity. 
The Observer plans to appear before the Board of Regents on November 4 to attempt to reinstate the subscription option for next year. But if the Assembly today denied the necessary funds for circulation of the papers for current school year, it may be necessary to suspend delivery and coverage until action is taken by St. Mary's Regents. 
The Student Assembly today can decide how much value to place on an informed or uninformed community. I wonder how many constituents know how their Assembly representative voted, or how she will vote today. If you want to keep receiving the Observer, go to your representa live and make your opinions known. Or, go to the Assembly meeting at 5:15 in 101 Regina North--it's open to the student body. It's a great chance for the SMC students to make student government work for you. 
Maria Gallagher 

Open letter to the student body 
Women and the SLC 

Frank Devine's position as Fifth District 
Representative will not be altered due to the ad­
dition of a female representative on the SLC · that 
is, she will fill the seat vacated by Bob Kersten of 
Student Government for an interim period of one 
ye~r. ~e views her role as providing input to the 
umvers1ty and not as necessarily reflecting her 
personal ideas as a woman. 
At the present time there are twenty-six senior Business majors living on the St. Mary's campus who are regarded as full-time Notre Dame students, as as such, share equal privileges (in­cluding representation on the SLC) with all other Notre Dame students. At this time, however, the status of St. Mary's women who attend classes at the University but are not formally enrolled as Notre Dame students has not been defined. Until such time as the Provost's Office makes such a definition, as are not in a position to include St. Mary's students in the SLC election. 
We hope that through this letter we have made the University community more fully aware of the present situation of Notre Dame undergraduate women with regard to the SLC. 
Sincerely, 

Executive Board, Walsh Hall 
Sue Andersen 
Kathy Cahill 
Peggy Pollara 
Terrv Skeehan 

Steering Committee Chairman, Badin Hall 
Kim Magnotta 

Apparently our humble and holy University has chosen to adopt The 
Old Master's words of wisdom, in spite of a drastically important 
issue, sweeping across college campuses in the United States. 
At a time when many universities are spending goodly sums on birth 
control information and devices, the University of Notre Dame seems 
to have had its vision clouded by perhaps confronting the wrong end of 
the issue. 

Instead of accepting the fact that terms such as abortion, con­
ception, contraception, and pre-marital sexual intercourse, that were 
only theoretically discussed in years gone by, are now relevant, in 
fact are now everyday terms, in the lives of many Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's students, the University implicitly denies that such problems 
exist. 

By adopting an ostrich-like position on the issue of a birth control 
center on campus, the University only sets itself up for richly deserved 
ridicule and becomes secondarily causal for the increase in unwanted 
pregnancies. 

Outlining the primary reasons for the University to act in this field 
becomes a mere recitation of facts. The Northern Indiana Planned 
Parenthood Association located on Chapin Street in South Bend, with 
clinics in a few strategic locations around the area, is swamped with 
work, much of which I'm told comes from the college students in the 
area. 

At present, this federally funded organization, established primarily 
to serve Michiana residents, is the only outlet for free and confidential 
birth control information and devices available to Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's students. 

Appointments at their frequently scheduled clinics are difficult to 
get and even more difficult to get to. Most of the clinics are so located 
that one needs a car to make the trip. 
A clinic on campus would alleviate both problems. South Bend's 
Planned Parenthood would no longer be overburdened with the in­
creasing number of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students using it 
and could concentrate its efforts on the underpriveleged and the 
unknowledgeable for whom it was created. At the same time, students 
from the two campuses would have the means of birth control readily 
and confidentially available to them. 
Now objections to such a center would be loud and emotion filled. It 
will be contended that the Bastion of Upper Educational Catholicism 
cannot provide its students with contraceptives or contraceptive in­
formation, because by doing so it will condone pre-marital sex. 
Here the University looks directly at the hull's posterior. The 
university already provides a course (Psychology, Human Sexuality, 
Dr. Giantonio) which studies in depth such things as contraception, 
venereal disease, abortion, homosexuality and deviant sexual 
behavior. Is this to imply that the University condones these ac­
tivities? 

Furthermore, the University provides ROTC, while many 
Theologians have denounced our military efforts as immoral. Does 
the University implicitly condone the military by offering ROTC to 
those who choose to take it? I think not. It then need not condone 
contraception or premarital sex, merely by providing for the 
dissemination of birth control information. 
Another objection will urge the University to make it as difficult as 
possible <or at least not to make it any easier) for its students to get 
contraceptives. Again, this entails a firm grasp of the hull's anus. For 
no university, Catholic or otherwise, should reduce its students to the 
level of trying to impose a system of morals on them. Preventing 
students from getting birth control information and devices does not 
prevent students from engaging in sexual intercourse. Surveys show 
that fear of pregnancy is low on the list of reasons why couples refrain 
from engaging in pre-marital sex. 
Instead, what preventing the dissemination of birth control in­formation does is merely add to the likelihood of unwanted pregnancy. Regardless of one's morat beliefs, an unwa ted pregancy is a situation far worse than the incidence of sex without conception. The University, then, by failing to provide contraceptive information for its students, cannot prevent sexual activity, but it can and -does increase the chances that annually, more and more of its women students will be undergoing the very serious and easily preventable operation known as abortion. 
Thus the conclusion is simple and readily apparent. The bull must be taken by the horns and faced, hard as that may be. The University must realize that there are now, and the number will continue to in­crease, instances of pre-marital sex and yes, even abortion, on the Notre Dame and St. Mary's campuses. And the same is true for venereal disease. 
In the interests of both ecology and the unborn and unwanted children, birth control and venereal disease devices, information, and counselling, should be provided to our students. Almost every un­wanted pregnancy can be avoided, and once this is accomplished the main reason for abortion is eliminated. 
The stage is set, the reasons are here, the time is r _ight. The SLC should begin research on a Birth Control and Venereal Disease Center and Clinic. Yesterday. 

•

for ms. miSS 

Are American young wom~n sex­depraved, drunks, clothes horses, jet set­ters, or rich snobs? The normal impuse would be to deny these allegations vehemently. But, after monitor:ing magazines specifically published for young women-Mademoiselle, Glamour, Ms. and Cosmopolitan-it is easy to conclude that the model Miss America pictured by these magazines is a mistake. 
Basically all four magazines contain features on fashion, food, travel, and beauty. Mademoiselle gears its content for women in college. Its readers graduate to Glamour, another Cone-Nast publication, with their first job or graduate school ac­ceptance. Both Cosmopolitan and Ms. appeal to an even smaller segment of young American women. Helen Gurleey Brown .,dits Cosmo reporting on topics such' as "The Bugaboo of Male Impotence" and "The Thoroughly, Splendidly, Outrageously Decadent Couple" for women trying to be urbane ·and sexually sophisticated. In its first year Ms. has countered Cosmo with many ariticles based on women's equality or superiority to men. While each of the magazines are edited by different per­sonalities, they all present just about the same image of the young American woman ­as a clothers mannequin into whom some fair godmother named "Lif" is trying to zap a brain. 
Three of the four covers for the magazines lure womem into buying them with a close­up of a beautiful model and a promise tQ show the reader ''How -to". Ironically Ms. neglects the how-to lure and model close­up. Oriented to women's rights, Ms. features a man-Senator McGovern-on the cover, while wm:nen are relegated to inner pages. Why is how-to such a-successful gimmick '! Perhaps, women are returning to handicrafts because ready-made products are too expensive. Anoihe: answer may be more leisure time. Busses ferry women between Notre Dame and St. Mary-s eliminating the more time~oosuming walk. The clothes code at both institutions permits jeans,. which reduce the normal longer dressing time. Hair dryers, electric curlers, and dry shampoos also save time. Regardless of the reason for its popdlarity, the successful how-to gimmick tends to picture young American women as domestic handymen with their tool kits of rouges, colognes, clothers' changes and handiwork. Apparently, judging by the diminishing piles of Mademoiselle, Glamour, Cosmo and Ms. in the SMC Bookstore, this is how-to describe the young American woman. She herself, will eagerly shell out cash for this description in articles in ads. · 
Mademoiselle's October issue has 137 pages of this kind of advertising out of a 248 

a. t. darin 


page issue. Glamour and Cosmopolitan rank very close with the advertising leader.· Finishing is last place with 15 full-page ads, Ms. confined its October ads to women's caucus announcements, a masculine "Come to Marlboro Country" layout, and sur­prisingly a "Goodbye Loose Pantyhose!" spread with a deceptively nude mode. After comparing specific products and magazines which adverti.se them, it is evident that these magazines do not sell a particular product. They sell a norm, a mode of behavior. 
Even a glance at the tables of contents of these magazines reveals interesting traits in the conceived personality of the reader. In the October Ms., one-fourth of the articles are columns which probe into the problems of women in various occupations. Ms.'s table of contents also lists serious features, short stories and fiction. However the magazine undercuts its fine in-depth reporting on women (and labor unions: "Song of the Shirt"; or employment discrimination "The Most Unforgettable Employer We've Ever Met") with several pages of crude photography and art work. This photography and the grade school attempt at cariacaturing McGovern on the cover of the magazine destroy Ms.'s quality. 
(ilamour and Mademoiselle devote most of their magazine feature pages to fashion, a shopping guide, beauty, travel, special features ("New Status in Waitressing"), and regulary monthly features. Unlike Glamour, Mademoiselle publishes creative writing. October's issue contains a short story, "Narcotics" by Joyce Carol Oates (who won Mademoiselle's prize for fiction in three Asian peets written in the eleventh and thirteenth centuries. In Cosmo, over one-half of all articles in the October issue, are features and fiction. The American young woman presented in the table of contents of these magazines seems mentally impotent. She is trying to find the book section, but she can't get past the rack of sale dresses. 

the kingdom under 
Lately, I feel that I am falling too much under the influence of urchins. I seem too often to be in a rainbow mood, though the place I sing of with the urchins (at their Mass on Sunday} lies over the rainbow, above the clouds, behind the sun, just a step beyond the rain. Bluebirds travel there to enjoy the sky, and urchins wish that they could follow those birds to the land above the chimney tops, where troubles melt like lemon drops. Urchins don't know what they are asking for. Even in the kingdoms beyond the rainbow, there are problems: a Tin Man needing heart surgery, a mindless Scarecrow, and a neurotic Lion must sometimes have the blues, and Wicked Witches surely have heartaches oftheir own, especially wh~n crushed to death by falling houses. Given my choic~ between the land of the munchkins and the land of the ur­chins, I would travel the road that leads back to childhood. Childhood is as close to the rainbow as I need to go. 
The trouble with rainbow kingdoms that begin in dreams is that they offer no lasting city. In the midst of a lapsed paradise, Disney built us a pair of fantasy worlds divided by a ruined continent. Each of them is as fresh to visit in the morning as our most recent reading of Mother Goose. But by evening, we have tired of the dancing mice, and nobody wants to live in a Haunted House. Our illusions are ended with weariness; the Matterhorn is cute, but it is also fake, and so is Cinderella's castle, 

and it is to be suspected that the girl taking 
tickets is wearing falsies. We need a new 
kind of fantasy outside the Mickey Mouse 
world that Adlai Stevenson once described 
as "a paroxysm in trivia," so some go home 
and read The Happy Hooker. Thus it is in the 
Disneyland-of-the-spirit called modern 
America; all of us search for a lost magic 
belonging to innocence, sometimes through 
drugs, sex, and alcohol, like the little girl 
named Judy who first taught us to dream of 
the kingdom over the rainbow. 
There is a primeaval dream of renewed innocence that belongs to the heritage of the race. In Biblical imagery, it is spoken of as the New Eden, the land of Canaan, flowing with milk and honey. Once upon a time, when the world was old and our country was young, the primaeval dream coalesced with (the dream of men we call patriots, for whom .. America was the paradise where the earth had been born again. Fitzgerald's Nick Carraway speaks movingly of the discoverer's experience: "I became aware of the old island here that flowered once for Dutch sailors' eyes-a fresh, green breast of the new world. Its vanished trees-had once pandered in whispers to the last and greatest of all human dreams; for a tran­sitory, enchanted moment man must have held his breath in the presence of this continent, compelled into an aesthetic contemplation he neither understood nor desired, face to face for the last time in history with something commensurate to 
;his capacity for. wonder." (The Great ,Gatsby) 
Wednesday, October 25, 1972 
the observer 
5 
An examination of covers, advertising, tables of contents and features reveals that whle these young women's magazines at­tempt to expand the young woman's interest in her environment -to influence what she thinks as well as what she wears, they may actually be stunting the readers' in­tellectual growth. 
The 'most serious deficiency of these magazines is their lack of positive creative stimulus for young women. Several hun­dred thousand young women writers are graduating from colleges annually. MADEMOISELLE AND Glamour, par­ticularly, which appeal to college age women, should make a strong effort to in­terest their readers in submitting original fiction, poetry, and features for publication. "The Poetry Place' ' in Mademoiselle should feature the work of young woman poets -not the work of eleventh and thir­teenth century Asian poets better left for an Asian lit class. True, Mademoiselle and Glamour do sponsor a writing competition annually, but this could be greatly ex­panded. 
Perhaps, articles dealing with women's fashion can be geared for readers instead of the national fashion industry. Seventeen magazine, a high school oriented publication, surveyed its readers and discovered that a sizeable number were making their clothes instead of fighting the expense of buying ready-made articles. Bi­annually Seventeen publishes the Make It! ­Do It! issue containing patterns, knitting instructions and inexpensive room decoration ideas. It is primarily sponsored by fabric and pattern companies. 'i'he four women's magazines evaluated should also consider such a project. There is a limit to make-overs with cosmetics and clothering. While it does keep cosmetic and women's apparel manufacturers financially happy, it is expensive. Most of the women enrolled at Notre Dame and St. Mary's can afford these changeovers suggested by these magazines. But with the rising cost of education, books expense, costly com­muting to and from colleges and decreasing summer job markets, any way to cut cor­ners would be appreciated. 




Letters Ta A Lanely Oad 


the rainbow 
rev. rabert IJriffin 
When you are living in a lost paradise, a Disney-land may help a little. But for Dutch sailors, Tinker Bell need not apply. As for the political fantasy of Camelot, or the whimsy of the Emerald City of Oz, as far as Dutch sailors are concerned, color them soda pop for sillyness. 
Ours is not the-rainbow kingdom; our is not the continent intact in beauty that flowered once for sailors' eyes. But ours is the dream--three hundred years shabby with reality--of the patriots who followed the sailors onto the fresh, green breast of the new world. 
The reality of the kingdom lying on this side of the rainbow has not to do with dreams, but with horror. There is blood on the Grand Old Flag, the blood of patriots who died trusting the wisdom of presidents elected on a promise to take us out, or keep us out of war. There is the blood of children who died as enemies in distant lands; it is indeed horror to believe that the .. American dream needs for its fulfillment the death of an enemy's children. There is horror in the sufferings of those who live as paraplegics in hospitals, or as protestors in prison. But the jeremiads against horror are repetitious; you have heard them for years now, but still the horror goes on.... the horrors having to do with bombings, and the domestic horrors involving the suffering of the young, the old, the innocent, the tired, caught in the death of cities. 
In the midst of the horror dooming the dream of the Dutch sailors and the patriots, there is, in this election year, a voice filled 
The travel and career~ollege depart­ments could also realign their features to their readership's interests. Every magazine which was monitored featured a . European excursion as its trip of the month · Ms. pushed Spain as an unlikely country for · women's liberation. Of Cosmo's "Ten best , places to be in love", only one, the Berkshire 
Mts. in western Massachusetts, is easily accessible for budget -conscious young American women. Perhaps, readers of these magazines do have unlimited travel expenses. But, I, for one, would rather see the travel departments explore areas easily accessible to students:: Williamsburg, Gettysburg, Concord, Vermont villages, western trails. Less expensive and more interesting American places to visit would be a welcome chage. 
Ditto for food. Of all the magazines examined, only Glamour assumed its reader could actually be the same person who sneaks into the ready-to-bake frozen cookie section of the supermarket to the the "ingredients" to bake her fiancee cookies ... or the frozen food department for frozen chipped beef, hors d'oeuvres, and other delicacies for Sunday morning brunch. Realistically the closest most of the Mademoiselle's, Glamours, Cosmo's, or Ms.'s readers will get to culinary expertise 

•
is the television when Julia Child is on. In its food section, Glamour, recognizing this disability among its readers, taught how to make a very simple sukiyaki -an ail­purpose oriental dish. As an added bonus, the magazine reprinted a how-to~ook rice ' feature. Cosmopolitan gave its apprentice cooks a four-step German Oktoberfect 

·whose name was more difficult to pronounce than its instructions to follow. Mademoiselle, however, included an unencouraging Grand Marnier Souffle and a gourmet duckling with olives. Perhaps the magazines can include pictures of the finished product, easy to follow directins and easy to find ingredients in recipes. Making a difficult recipe without these three aids is like making a skirt in dim light ­never knowing what it will look like! 
In conclusion, these magazines could concentrate more space on activities of contemporary women. What can be done for amusement in small college towns like South Bend? Job markets? Careers? Majors? Opportunities for exchange of ori exchange and academic projects of dif­ferent campuses? Most importantly, in­terviews with stimulating people: Alice Roosevelt Longworth, Clare Booth 'Luce. Martha Griffiths, and the not-so-famous success stories: secretaries, teachers, nurses, government employees? 
For the price of one issue of Mademoiselle, Glamour, and Cosmo, you get a yard and a half of cotton material and a pattern. For the price of an issue of Ms., you can get two brownie cake mixes. Perhaps, some day young American women's magazines will also have similar value by reflecting the intelligent -well­dressed American young woman. 

with reassurance that says, "Come home, America. America, come home." I listen to the voice not because it is Republican or Democrat, but because there is no other alternative to what we presently have, there is no other voice speaking that offers hope. 
<You say, "Meddlesome priest, stick to your alter and keep out of politics. • • And I answer, "Friend, there are human issues beyond politics. I cannot spend four years seething with ethical outrage or moral in. dignation over issues, then sudenly, because it is an election year, discard those emotions as political. If you have been close to the moral agony of some people on this campus for the past four years, I hope yol]·won'tthink so, wither.) 
I have written with clumsin<'SS in these tortured paragraphs of the .lreams and fantasies that men feed upon. All of them express a spiritual hunger for a better world. Martin Luther King had a dream. Bobby Kennedy dreamed of things that 
•

never were and asked why not. Now there is this other dreamer who says ''America, come hom,·." Hopefully his ·'lream has touched their dreams; prop tic visions should not be allowed to peri 
I am much under the influer . of urchins 
...

these days, but my patriotic aL ..giances are to the kingdoms under the rainbow. I think 
· it is lovely for children to travel in imagination over the Yellow Brick Road of the Munchkins, but I pray that the reahty they will know for their lifetime is the reality of America come home to her 1 dreams. 

~-~~ -----------------~--------~----------­
Wednesday, October 25, 1972
the observer
6 





Letters • • • • 

• •• on Me Govern, SLC women 
large on the SLC... not a district American Club, the India his lack of knowledge of the music 
McGovern dirt not a special group. It's hoped that Association, the Chinese Ticket exchange of that period. The first fault he a woman will bring different in­Association, and the Latin found with the concert "was that sights to the SLC, insights which American Circle. These vary in the strings completely over­
Editor: Editor:
come from the unique experience sizes and way of functioning, but powered the harpsichord." This is The McGovern Mud Machine has of being a woman at Notre Dame. all of them contribute to the '"in­only logical since the harpsichord
shifted into high gear. It seems From all indications the 1972
She will do so, though,) as an in­ternational environment" of the plays a very secondary role in this
that George has left his "nice guy" Football Ticket Exchange seems
dividual, a person, a represen­Notre Dame-Saint Mary's com­particular music. Mr. Abell'sapproach and opened up with a tative of the Notre Dame Student munity, so widely announced in all to have been a success. I would second mistake was to state that
battery of character assasinations Government. Notre Dame bulletins of in­like to thank all those students who not hearing the harpsichorddirected at the President. formation. took part in the program in some
Most of the people involved in "tended to weaken the Baroque
In an interview with Gregg way. From the beginning I em­
making the decision to ask the flavor of the piece." This could be
Harrington of AP on June 29, Our president, Mr. Amaury phasized that this project was
women of Notre Dame to suggest a due to the fact that the piece is not
McGovern said, " ... the Nixon Velez from Puerto Rico, talked sponsored not by some particular
candidate for the vacant seat are Baroque to begin with. In fact, the
bombing policy on Indochina is the with Mr. Marget after he first organization but by the entire
sensitive to the dangers of Baroque age was on its way out by
most barbaric action that any proposed only $1,000 for the ISA. student body, Last Saturday, I
tokenism. We rejected the idea of the time J.C.F. Bach was born. 
country has committed since The association was given "an believe, was proof of this
asking for a "special" ninth SLC Another weakness in Mr. Abell's
Hitler's effort to exterminate opportunity" to present its claims statements.
seat for women. We are com­article is that the reportage on the
Jews..." The sly Senator seems to to the Board of Commissioners last 
mitted: to a coeducational Notre However the program could not second half of the concert is totally 
imply that President Nixon is Thursday. The International
Dame, not to a male Notre Dame even had been thought of without wrong. Not only was the solo
another Adolph Hitler! Who will Student Association presented its
with a tiny women's ghetto. the help of certain individuals both pianist not Justus Frantz, but the
he drag up next? Atilla the Hun? objections to the proposed budget. 
Please give the members of the students and non-students. Mr. orchestra played neither a con­
.. Ivan the Terrible? Our delegates took with them
SLC enough credit to realize that Donald Bouffard, ticket manager certo by either C.P.E. Bach or byAt Catholic University on Apri.l we will not see the woman ap­pamphlets, programs, and in­of the ACC, was perhaps the most Mozart. The conductor announced
20, Sen. McGovern said, "I think vitations to all of last year's ac­
pointed to serve on the SLC as the important man in the whole in the beginning of the program
the re-election of Richard Nixotl in spokeswoman'for women at Notre tivities. These were not even seen operation and without his help and that the second half would be 
1972 would be an open hunting by the Commissioners since they
Dame any more than we view the cooperation there would have not changed. The Mozart Diver­
rights for this man to give in to all "did not have the time."
faculty members as speaking for even been a ticket exchange. Mr timento was played after the in­his impulses for a major war all the faculty, or Fathers Rhiele The word DISCRIMINATION Jay Kane, of the information termission followed by a Double against the people of Indochina." 
and Schilts speaking for all priests has been very used against the services should also be recognized Concerto for Violin and Oboe by
Aha! Sen. McGovel'tl has who hold administrative positions. student government, but maybe for the work he did in publicizing J.S. Bach. discovered another truism-that Each member sent to the SLC is an because of the frequency used, it the event to the different news Finally, how Mr. Abell can say
President Nixon can hardly wait to individual whose special interests has been monopolized by medi~. The Observer staff, that the encore, commonly known fight Indochina. The mudslinging and background give depth to the American minorities. Because of espec1ally John Abowd, Ed Ellis, as the Air on a G String by J.S. 

Senator even implies that Mr. and Jerry Lutkus were tremen­
body. I'm sure any woman ap­this, we prefer not to use it, since Bach, was not as exciting as the 
Nixon desires to open some sort of pointed to represent the Student we are not Americans. However, dous in letting the students know preceeding pieces is beyond me. personal hunting season on Body will be treated that way. we have not yet found a logical about the exchange and if I was Proof that it was probably the most 
Asians! Is there no limit to the any kind of a bother, I'm sorry.
I would like to thank Ann reason for the decision taken by exciting piece in the program was rhetoric? Therese for her concern for my the Board of Commissioners, last Finally, individual students such the fact that there was a full ten Just recently, however, the position as a member of the SLC, Thursday. It is clear to us, as it as John Tully, big Al Sondej, and seconds of complete silence after 
rhetoric has risen to ·remarkable especially Kathy Kane who was co­
however, my effectiveness will not was to them, that the ISA can not the piece before anyone dared reaches of irresponsibility. Mr. be hampered any more by having a function with $1,000. The activities chairman of the project should be break the magic by applauding.
McGovern has originated a new thanked.
resident of Badin or Walsh ap­planned for this year will not take I and other music lovers on both campaign game. He gives us the pointed to the vacancy· than if place, but of course, who cares I think the project is worthwhile of these campuses sincerely hope 
basic sentence: The Nixon ad­and should be continued in the next 
another resident of Dillon (there about "those foreign movies and that the Observer will be more 
ministration is the most (blank) in are two of us already), Alumni or shows?" Who wants to learn about years; all I can say to the lucky ~areful in the future when printing history. The trick is to guess what man who runs it next year is good
Sorin were appointed. Since the those strange customs in India, 1ts music criticism and picking its 
will fill the blank each week. The luck and have fun.
decision to appoint a woman was China, or Latin America? Who music critics. 
first week, the word was made, I have been selected to head wants to understand how those Sincerely, Sincerely,

"corrupt." This week, it is the SLC's Planning Com­foreigners U·om the other side of B.J. Bingle Brock Burroughs"ruthless." Next week, who can mittee ... the committee charged the world think? Next time student 
guess? 

with exploring future student government mentions something
I hesitate to guess what the next about "world peace" and "un­
center uses and alternative life Cologne defended Issue Staff 

cheap shot will be--but after styles (including coed dorms, derstanding amoun nations" theywatching this campaign develop, I can be sure that there will be at
experimental housing styles etc.). Editor: 
am sure that the mad mud-slinger, I hardly feel ignored by the SLC. least 400 student laughing at them. Being a music major, I feel Nite Editor: Jack FrischkornGeorge McGovern, will present us 
I look forward to continuing to obliged to write in defense of good Ass't: Sue Prendergast
with a smear so big that his Sincerely yours,

serve all five halls in my district music criticism. I write con­Layout: Albert D'Antonioprevious attempts will look like this year and to confir!'lling, as a cerning the article on the Cologne Sports Nite Editor: Stan Urankar
junior grade mud pies. Juan Carlos Fernandez.
Student Government Com­Chamber Orchestra by Joseph Pictures: Jerome Phillips
340 Morrissey

missioner, the candidate Abell. At the least, it demonstrates Nite Controller: John Flannigan
Leo Buchignani 
suggested for the SLC vacancy by
<Flanner 513) 
the women of Notre Dame. 
tel-1372 Sincerely, Franklin DevineWomen on SLC The once and Future Com­missioner, District V Editor: I feel that Ann Therese Darin's column, "Women on the SLC?" ISA thanks cannot be allowed to pass without some comment concerning a basic misunderstanding of the situation Editor: exhibited in the column. As the 
The 400 students in the In­
elected representative of the halls 
ternational Student Association
in question I feel some comment is 
would like to express their
in order. 
gratitude to the Board of Com­
District Five (Alumni, Badin, Dillon, Sorin and Walsh Halls) is missioners of the student govern­not being divided either by the SLC ment for such a great un­or by the Student Government derstanding of our organization. Commissioners. It will remain as The student government treasurer it always has. I will continue to Mike Marget, suggested $1,000 to represent the district in the SLC be allocated to ISA; a very and at the meetings of the Com­generous amount of money for missioners. anyone who is completely ignorant 
The SLC seat which will be filled of the size, composition, and ac­by a woman will be that of the tivities of the ISA. To all those who Student Body President. The are familiar with the activities of 
Student Commissioners, as well as the ISA, those who have benefited the faculty and administrators on from the India night, last year, the SLC believe that the absence from the Latin American Week 
of a woman from so many aspects celebration, from the International of campus life must be corrected. festival. from the Pan American 
With the vacancy on the SLC an Club Spanish tutorial, from the opportunity presented itself. Chinese and Indian movies, and The Student Government shows presented at Notre Dame, Commissioners discussed at some from the Latin American Circle,

• 
length methods of appointing a magazines, "Latin America", and qualified woman to serve in Bob from so many other cultural ac­Kersten's seat. We finally decided tivities presented by the ISA, $1,000 it was best to approach the two is the most ridiculous sum that 
organized groups of women of the could be proposed for the ISA. campus and invite them to come Of course, those who know

... up with a way of nominating a nothing about the ISA, and who woman to fill the vacancy. have never attended one of the The two organizations (Badin shows, lectures, movies, or and Walsh) have decided to hold an tutorials offered by it, as almost all election. The Student Government the members of the Board of Commissioners have agreed to Commissioners, ignore that the appoint the winner of the election ISA is not one group. The ISA is to the vacant seat. The winner will one of the biggest organization on be representing the student body at campus. It is composed of the Pan 
Pick... 

MANHATTAN MANTOPS 
Mantops is many ... many different styles and colors designed to coordinate as you wish; button front sweaters, sleeveless styles, zipper fronts and many more. Choose yours here ... and now. 
NEW KNITS 
slacks, sportcoats, suit­s ... double knit is new. See them soon. University styled and priced. The Mantops above is a pure 
wool sleeveless sweater in shades of blue and red. In­
$12 
dispensable . 
Use the Campus Shop 
Way to buy. Great 
Pay one, third in January, one­third in February, one-third in March. No service or carrying charges added. 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
----~------------------------------------------------------­



Norling 
(continued from page 1) 
permament communist ideology to take over the world." 
In regard to the President's Viet Nam policy, he felt that given the situation Nixon inherited "I can not think of a better solution." He could understand how people with "pride in their country" could vote for McGovern who would "crawl on his belly to Hanoi." 
He continued his comments of McGovern, calling his pre­convention "utopian ideas" as 
Profs comment 
on Academic Council future 
(continued Jror~...Page 1) 
Besides, he noted, "I've found <members oO the College Council of Arts and Letters (making) comments as insightful as any I've heard" at other levels. 
And there are specific jobs that need student input. "Believe it or not," said Dugan, "I think that the "cademic Council does other things besides revising the faculty manual" in which "student 
suggestions  are  almost  always  
found  to  be  helpful"  and  
necessary.  

There is also a need for a woman on the Council, said Dugan, arguing that the Council should help take the lead in making coeducation work at Notre Dame. 
"We've got to move and move very rapidly" (to consolidate the move to coeducation, said Dugan. "This beginning we make will set the tenor for the whole future (of coeducation) here." 
It's the issue of governance which will be the crucial one to the Faculty Manual, according to Dugan, and when it finally hits the Council; an event which he believes imminent, he will "put forth" his ideas and "put them forth forcefully .. " 
Will the idea take hold? Will the Faculty Senate version be passed unscathed? After all, it was ac­cepted Monday by the Council as its first subject for discussion. 
Both VastaandDugan believe the discussion will be "full and frank," anu ~at administrators, faculty and students alike will "definitely be willing to listen." But Vasta is relatively sure that the specific provision on Council structure included in the Senate version will be voted down. 
But this doesn't dismay Vasta. "This might sound corny," he explained, s"but the reason I won't be discouraged is because all are working for the good of the school-­nobody (on the Council) is going to stand in the way of progress for Notre Dame. I'll fight as hard as I can for my principles, but I can only be discouraged in that specific context." 
The Academic Council plans at least two more meetings given over completely to discussion of and a decision on the Faculty Manual revision, and expects the final vote at its Nov. 6 meeting. 
"ruthlessness in action." He called his alliances with Daley and Johnson after convention, "in­congruous for someone who had talked like an editorial writer for the Scholastic. 
Concluding his talk, he referred to as McGovern as "the least impressive candidate that either party has nominated in my lifetime." His chief defense of Nixon is that he "understands the big foreign policy issues and McGovern does now." 
John Houck, Professor of Management and Chairman of Faculty for McGovern, followed Norling by saying "I don't think George McGovern could have spoekn with less warmth for Richard Nixon than my colleague just has." Alluding to his and Norling's respective hairstyles, he said the debate might appear to be a battle between the "the Roun­dheads and the Cavaliers." 

He said that the campaign is much more important than the country has shown. Believing that polls can mislead the public he felt they should discuss the issues rather than elect the president. 
The CAC'S Dance & Drama Series 


The Second City Players 
Chicago's satirical humor troupe in 



"The Best of Second City" 
Sat. Nov. 4 O'Laughlin Aud., St. Mary's 
all seats general admission $3 Dance/Drarrapatrons free tickets at CAC office and Student Union ticket office for information call 283-3797 
-------~------~----------­
Wednesday, October 25, 1972 the observer 
7 





supports Nixon war 
•
SLC pr1mary results 
Badin Walsh 
Maureen Lathers 38 15 Diane McDonnell 17 27 Janet Waltman 24 12 Kris Anhut 1 4 Candy Kelly 2 5 Debbie Dell 1 2 
83 65 
1
Abstentions 0 
83 66 
TONIGI-IT-12till2 a.m. 
on WSND AM. and FM Kevin Dockrell plays1vvo hours of STEPHEN STILLS! 



fljf31~~, 

THIS FRIDAY-8:30 Some Good Seats Still Available at the ACC Ticket Office 
NOTE: MASASSAS will play the whole show so don't be late. 
presented by the N.D. Student Union 

Calling Nixon a "principle ar­chitect of the Cold War", he said that he was indirectly responsible for the situation in Vietnam. He stated that in 1969 Nixon had a "real chance" for successful negotiations with North Vietnam since that country was greatly weakened from the Tet offensive. "But being an old Cold War warrior", the President employed Vietnamization rather than pulling out. 
By neglecting to negotiate Nixon allowed the North Vietnamese to "nurse their wounds" and in 1972 mount another offensive. Houck equated the situationin 1969 with 


policy 

the present state of_ affairs. Therefore, he felt that Nixon has wasted 31k years and many livP.!>­
He felt that it is quite a coin­cidence that Nixon started these talks right before the Eilection. He called the bombing of North Vietnam "the most horrendous bombing in all of history." 
He ended his talk by attacking vested interests, the Soviet wheat deal, and the rise in unemployment (311:! to 5 percent) since Nixon took office. He felt that McGovern, if elected, would place distribution of America's welath, now controlled by a minoriy, and other domestic reforms as his chief priorities 
-· 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
Help!!! Desperately need 2 General Admission tickets for TCU. Call Colleen 4389. 

Need ride to Ph illy for Navy game. Will share expenses. Can leave Friday. Call 4151. 
4 Miami, 1 TCU gen. admission tix. Call John 8786. 
Need 6 Gen Adm TCU tickets, Frank 8533, Neal 6766. 
2 student or 3 gen. adm. tics needed for TCU game. Lisa 4556. 
Desperately need tickets for TCU game. Please call 3377 now!!! 
Desperately need 4 TCU tickets. 
Phone 287-6010. 
Need 4 general admission tickets for TCU. Need not be together. Call John 1605. 
Wanted: garage to rent near campus, Pat 8422. 
Need ride to Cleveland on Friday, Oct. 27th. Call Marybeth 4391. 
Need ride to Ohio turnpike exit 8 and back weekend of Oct. 27. Marianne 4611. 
Ride needed to Kent State October 
27. Call Sue 6958. 
I SEEK JUST ONE gen. ad­mission TCU ticket. Call Paul 6167. 
Need ride to O'Hare Friday morning, please. Ken 1343. 
Wanted: 2 general admission TCU tickets. Call Greg 3683. 
2 girls need ride to Philadelphia weekend of Nov. 4, will share expenses. 4635. 
Ride needed to ND from Cleveland on Oct. 27, Jim 1809. 
Desperately need 3 gen admission 
TCU tickets, call Jim 1782. 
Driving to Navy game? If so I need a ride to Philly, New York or vicinity, able to leave Nov. 1. Will share expenses, Paul 7861. 
Need TCU tickets -general ad­mission · call 233-9032 evenings. 
2 Miami G.A. tix needed, call Don 7471 or 234-6267. 
Need ride to exit 9 Ohio turnpike, Oct. 27, Marc -6832. 
Wanted: ride to Detroit, Nov. 3, Will share driving & expenses. Call Joe, 1412. 
PERSONAL 
djm, i missed you, love jpb 
Attila, Genghis, & the rest of the 
Huns, Sorry we went on the warpath. The invasion got carried away . so to speak. 
Your warriors 
p.s. Great weekend -By God! 
MELISSA 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO A REAL GROOVER! CELEBRATE YOUR TWENTIETH YEAR IN STYLE! 
camarry 
To whom it may concern: there is a lady with a hatchet alive and well and living in austria. "and i won't be back til later on" but i'll be back. 
peace. 

mom and dad, happy belated anniversary! us 
FOR SALE 

Genuine woman Italian gloves from Florence for sale. Fine quality. Call Muffet Fog, 4028. 
Westinghouse Compact Refrigerators. 4.4 cu. ft. capacity, factory warranty, free delivery. Call now! Wynne's Refrigeration Co. 234-0578 or 232· 2618. Ask for Tom. 
Stills tickets: on floor, rows 4 and 
6. Call Neil or Paul, 3232 or 3241. 
Must sell: dorm -sized 
refrigerator 2.1 cu. ft. Excellent condition. Sacrifice -$45.00. Call 1365 after 6: 30. 
Several good couches and chairs ­clearance prices. Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 
For Sale: 1, 2 or 3 general ad­mission TCU tickets. Call 1595. 
LOST AND FOL'ND 
Lost: a black switchblade, please call 2164. It is a present from my mom. 
Found: plastic covered bike chain at SMC, call Rick 1330. 
NOTICES 
THE BOAR'S HEAD Opening in November 
A young organization with a new concept in dihing, featuring a limited steak and lobster menu. We are now completing con­struction of our building which uses old EngI ish decor and five fireplaces to add to a warm an elegant atmosphere. Accepting Applications for cooks, bartenders, waiters, waitresses cashiers, dishwashers, dining room work. We'll be hiring about 60 full and part time people for our opening crew. An ex­cellent opportunity for a "fun" and interesting jog for the school year and summer. Please apply in person at the 
BOAR'S HEAD 31 North · next to Howard John-son's Restaurant. 9 am to 6 pm. Ask for Henry or Bill 
CALIFORNIA CLUB CHRIST­MAS CHARTER SIGNUPS. This Wed, thru Fri and next Mon. & Tues 1-3 pm at the Travel Agnecy. 
Beaux-Arts ball, November 4, 
9:30 -2:00 am, creative attire, band, refreshments, tickets $4.00. Everyone welcome. 
Morrissey Loan Fund. Borrow up 
to $150. La Fortune basement. Open 11:15-12:15, Monday thru Friday. 
HELP the helpless unborn, with time, money, or both. Right-to Life, Inc. 233-4295. 
Piano lessons: Call Eddie Sears 232-6882; $5 per hour; $3 per half hour. 
JESL'S CHRIST SL'PERSTAR TONIGHT AT MORRIS CIVIC Al1DITORIL'M. 2 SHOWS: 7:00 
and 9:30. GOOD TICKETS ARE STILL AVAILABLE AT THE L~OX OFFICE OR CALL 8253 FOR TICKETS AND FL'RTHER IN­FORMATION. 
Dressmaking and alterations. Phone 233-2441. 
FOR RENT 
Groovy room for rent, close to ND; bus; call 289-6581. 
Deadline for all classified ads is 
1:00 pm the day before 
publication. All ads must be placed in person, and must be prepaid. 



• 
the observer Wednesday, October 25, 1972
8 

Darryl/ Dewan -­ND falls 
•


1n polls
positive thinking 

Notre Dame's loss to Missouri dropped the Irish from the Top Ten in this week's A.P. and U.P.I.
by "Lefty" Ruschmann ("The Econ faculty, by the way, college football rankings. The 30­

has some of the best sports fans 26 defeat handed to N.D. by AI around") who plans to go to law

Nearly everyone here associates Onofrio's unrated Tigers
school, possibly here at Notre

the Notre .Dame "spirit" with a engineered a decline from the 
Dame, after graduation. "I

sort of romantic loyalty which eighth spot held by the Irish in the 
started out in geology and thought 

glorifies Irish athletes. But now ratings of a week ago.
of becoming an oceanographer,"and then. this same "spirit" has Sporting a 4-1 mark on the year,explained Dewan, "but I thought

haunted athletes; instead of 

Ara Parseghian's gridders fell toI'd get into something moreencouragement,it has turned into a the13thslot in the writers' survey, realistic, so to speak."
demoralizing--and often un­garnering only 138 points. Thedeserved-wave of criticism. So far this season Dewan has coaches took an even dimmer view Darryl Dewan knows how ugly benefitted from his more solid 

of Notre Dame, dropping them allthis "spirit" can become. His starting role in the Notre Dame the way to 15th, behind the likes of
reputation for fumbling, acquired backfield. "With so many people Auburn, Arizona State, and Iowaduring the 1970SouthemCalifornia shuffled in and out last year, things State.

game, has long since evolved into a got a little hectic. This year, it is Southern California, riding highstanding campus joke. The record, easier to get situated and play good on the crest of a 34-7 victory overhowever, does not support ball." Darryll has also run pass Sonny Sixkiller-less Washington,Dewan's critics. Only one time in patterns from his halfback slot, a took near total command of thethe fifteen gamessinceUSC has he task he views as "lending variety

lost the football. Moreover, the 6-0, and excitement to playing the number one spot. Between the two polls, the Trojans garnered 76 of a204-pound senior running back position," and has seen action on 

has amassed 297 yards rushing this the kick return squads as well. 

possible 85 first place votes, good st-ason for an average of 5.2 yards 
for a sizable lead over second­While Missouri's upset victory ranked Alabama.
per carry. 

dampened hopes for a major bowl The Crimson Tide, 17-10 come­
Also overlooked by the Irish fans appearance and a national from-behind winners over Ten­is that Dewan was a relative championship, the senior running nessee, moved up a notch as newcomer to the running back back has by no means given up. previously unbeaten Oklahoma 
position during his sophomore "Our goal is to win every game was knocked into the eighth spot
campaign; only after arriving here remaining on our schedule, in­following a 20-14 loss to seventh­was he switched to halfback. cluding Southern Cal. I feel we'll rated Colorado. Dt-wan played on the offensive unit bounce back against Texas 
The only major difference in this at Danbury <Conn.) High School Christian; we've got that kind of week's ratings occurred in theexclusively at quarterback; this, spirit on the team." 
third and fourth slots. Defendingcombined with his performance at Nevertheless, the students' post­,, . . . . ~;-;:, '} •' --){.? •";? ... ·, ·, national champion Nebraska, 56-0defensive back, earned him All­game cynicism after Missouri Halfback Darryll Dewan looking for yardage runaway winners against Kansas,American recognition in at least annoyed Dewan. "The students took command of the number three one sports magazine. are great, and they give us great he have to take all that criticism position in the A.P. poll, withsupport," said Dewan, "but they from his fellow students? The
Notre Dame recruited Dewan unbeaten Ohio State in fourth. The
Golfers win
sometimes get too critical. It's not name of the game is to try to reach 

along with a number of Ivy League U.P.I. balloting leaned towards
fair when a guy is a hero one week

and Eastern schools, prompting perfection; we don't want to make Woody Hayes' Buckeyes, though,
and bum the next." Commentinghim to choose between possible mistakes." at SW Mich. placing them a notch ahead of the 

on the fans' treatment of such

stardom at a small school, and the Mike Kistner and Chuck Voelker C'ornhuskers.
Looking ahead once again,opportunity to play "big­Dewan summed up the principal paced the Notre Dame golf team as Louisianaballplayers as John Egart of last 
year's basketball team, Dewan Michigan and State­
time" football. Notre Dame said, "When a guy puts in so much Irish goal for this season: "Let's they captured the second annual are fifth and sixth, respectively,
eventually won out, a decision due, win everything we can." Southwestern Michigan College
time and effort in practices, does with Colorado and Oklahomain no small part, to academic Fall Invitational Tournament last following. UCLA gained theconsiderations. Dewan is Friday at Hampshire Country number nine position in bothcurrently an economics major Club. Kistner's 76 and Voelker's ratings, but the writers and 
:::.~:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::~;:: 

77, coupled with 78's by Paul Betz eoaches once again disagreed on and Jeff Burda, gave the Irish "A" the tenth-best team in the country. 
IJJimmy the Gree~~f 

squad a 309 total, good for first Texas, with sophomore quar­place. 
terback Alan Lowrey looking like




OBSERVER 
Orchard Ridge finished second
if... -~-~ 9.~.7.-~-~..)..!D.~..-....J~ 
another master of the Wishhf1.-T. 
.·.11!·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·=·:·:·.·:·:·:·:·.···············-·.·..•..•..•••••••••• ~·-· 
with a 325 total, and the N.D. "B" throttled Arkansas to merit the<Home Team in Bold Type) team, led by Jim Culveyhouse's 79 number ten spot in the A.P. 
and Greg Gibbons' 83, took third.
College games 
balloting, but the U.P.I. board
SPORTS 
Kistner's score was good for low voted in favor of once-beaten Penn lloly Cross by 4 over Villanova gross honors, as only five players State for the final top ten opening.
Pt-nn St. by 13 over W. Virginia <all from Notre Dame) broke 80 inClemson by 13 over Wake Forest Only two games betweenthe tournament.
Maryland by 6 over Virginia nationally-ranked clubs are Sy1·acusr by 6 over Pittsburgh slated for this weekend. The Pt'nn by 6 over Princeton Nittany Lions tangle with 18th
Action heavy in lnterha/1 sports
N.C. State by 14 ove~ S. Carolina ranked West Virginia in a battle 
Georgia by 9 over Kentucky which should decide eastern
by Tim Neuville In open doubles,the Gold Division and if you know of three guys and
Dartmouth by 6 over Harvard college football supremacy, while
has crowned a winner in the team three girls who want to play
Columbia by 8 over Rutgers in the south, Gary Huff and his 17th
The annual freshman swimming of Tim Neuville and Kevin Lon­volleyball, call the Interhall office 
(;t'orgia Tech by 8 over Tulane rated Florida State Seminoles
meet highlighted intramural ac­dergon. Going through the entire at 6100.
Duke by 6 over Navy travel to Auburn to face the 12th
tivities last week with a new note. tournament without losing a set, Soccer has gotten underway with 
Yale by 4 over Cornt>ll seeded Tigers.
ND girls were involved for the first Neuville and Londergon dumped Off-Campus and Holy Cross
Miami <Fla.) by 10 over Army The rankings:
time this year. Wendeln and Paladino in the making it to the quarterfinals ofTt'nnesst't' by 46 over Hawaii 
Dillon scored 19 points to win the finals, 6-3, 6-3. the winners' bracket.
Ohio State by 19 over Wisconsin meet, displaying great balance on The Blue Division finals are The popular basketball program AP PollMississippi by 8 over Vanderbilt the way to the championship. Their almost ready to go, where Marx is now posting notice for teams. I Southern California (44) i·O !ll!li
Purdue by 17 over Illinois 
Z. Alabama (2). 6-0 1105 Oklahoma by 42 over Kansas St. individual leader was B. Eddy, and McKenna will take on the There will be one team allowed for 3. NPbraska (2) 5-l 71R
winning the 50 yd. backstroke and winner of the bursik and Thomp­each 100 students in the hall and 4 Ohio Slate (I) 5-0 6RINotre Damt' by 21 over T.C.U. 
placing 3rd in the 200 yd. freestyle. son-Byrne and Byrne match. team rosters will be due Nov. 6. 5. Michigan (I) ~ 629
Northwestern by 4 over Indiana 6. LOUISiana Stale 6·0 51H
Individual stars for the meet Co-ed volleball is still in need of Pangborn "B" are the defending
Nt'hraska by 33 over Okla. State 7. Colorado fi.l 500 
included T. Clemens from Zahm teams. Response has been poor champs. 8. Oklahoma 4·1 4.'i7
Colorado by 19 over Missouri 
9 l'CL;\ 6-1 340
who won the 100 yd. freestyle, 50
Houston by 4 over Miss. State 10. Texas 4-1 22!1
yd. butterfly, and placed 3rd in the II P1•nn Stale !).1 218Michigan by 28 over Minnesota 50 yd. freestyle, and P. Carry of 12 Auburn 5-I 175
Ruggers roll Evansville 44-0
Iowa State by 14 over Kansas 
13 Notrt' Dame 4·1 13!1
Morrissey won the 50 yd.
Michigan St. by 13 over Iowa 14 Tenni'SSI'I' 4-2 116 
breastroke and 100 yd. individual The Notre Dame rugby team Nitti added two more first half­15. Iowa State 4-1 8fiFlorida St. even against Auburn 
1&. Anzona StaiP 5-l 6li
medley. recorded its eighth victory of the trys--both on runs where he simply 
S.M.U. by 4 over Texas Tech 17. Florida Slate 6-1 24
season this past weekend with a 44-outdistanced the Evansville 18. (lie)Arkansas 4-2 10B.Y.U. by 8 over Colorado St. In the girls meet, Walsh swept 0 trouncing of the Evansville rugby backs.Greving scored twice in the Soulhl'rn Methodist 4-1 10
Washington by 7 over California all points in the 28-0 shutout win West Virginia 5-2 10
club. first half with both trys comingll('LA by 17 over Washington St. over Badin, as only two girls, R. 
It was the second shutout of the after he kicked the ball through Others receivmg \'Oles, listed alpha·Stanrord by 25 over Oregon St. Fritz and K. Gallogly competed. 
year for the Irish, and also the Evansville's back line and bt'licaUy Air Force, Dartmouth. Flon·
U.S.C. by 28 over Oregon Both were stars, with Fritz win­da. Georgia, Louls,·ille. Missouri. North
highest point total in the history of followed it into the end zone, where 
Texas by 13 over Rice ning three events and Gallogly Carolina. North Carolina Slate. Okla·
the team. Notre Dame· scored he touched it down for the scores. homa Stale, Purdue. Stanford, TexasBaylor by 3 over Texas A&M taking two firsts and a second. 
virtually at will and simply Rich Cusik added a score and Tech. Washington State.
Arizona St. by 12 over Air Force 
In the softball tournament, the overpowered the Evansville club O'Connell chipped in with three Pro games winners' bracket is down to the with a fine team effort. Joe Nitti more conversions to give the Irish 
UPI Poll
finals with Holy Cross playing the and Ed O'Connell each scored 12 a 38-0 half-time bulge.
Washington by 6 over N.Y. Giants I. Sf>uthern.Calilornia (32) ·7.0 347
Accountants. In the lower bracket, points for the Irish and John 
%. Alabama (2) s.o m
Atlanta by 6 over San Francisco the Slags are playing the Grazes Greving added eight more to lead A shortened second half saw the 3. Ohio State .~ 256 
New Orle~ns by 1 over Phila. Irish score only once. 4. Neb111ska (I) .5-l
and the Fellas battle MWD. the rout. Jeff War­' 23i 
5. Michigan .6-0 233
Minnesota by 3 over Green Bay ND scored the first time they nimont raced 50 yards for a try and 
I. Louisiana State 6-0 170
... St. Louis by 3 over Chicago The tennis tournament!>. controlled the ball, when, after a the conversion was good to give the 7. Colorado &-1 146 
Pittsburgh by 7 over Burralo meanwhile, are drawing to a close: series of good passes by the Irish Irish their final margin of victory. 8. Oklahoma .4-1 140 
t. UCLA 6-1 50
N.Y. Jets by 14 over New England In novice doubles action, backs, Nitti raced the final yard The ND record now stands at 8-2. 
10. Penn Stale S-1 22
Cincinnati by 12 over Houston Makowski and Scher came back in for the try. O'Connell converted The "B" team was idle this week II. Texas. 4-1 18 Denver by 4 over Cleveland their semifinal matchtobeat Renig and the Irish led 6-0. Herb Giorgio due to a last minute cancellation, 12. Auburn .5-I li 
IJ, ArizDna Stale . .S-1 9
Kansas City by 1 over San Diego and Wassel, 7-9, 6-3, 7-5. Skrod and added a try a few minutes later, and their perfect 5-0 slate remains 
14. Iowa State 
·"' 8
Miami by 4 over Baltimore Stucker took the other semifinal and after the successful conversion intact. Both teams take on Indiana 15. Notn.> Dame 4-1 5 
II. TeDilt'sset' ... H 4
Los Angeles even aginst Oakland encounter, downing Burkot and the Irish led 12-0 and the issue was University this Saturday behind 
17. SI(U .. 4-1 3
Dallas by 6 over Detroit (Monday) Burkot, 8-6, 6-2. no longer in doubt. Stepan Center. 18. florida State 6-1 2 



