
On The Inside 
Candidates invited to campus ... page 5 Trilogy review ... page 7 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Wednesday, September 6, 1972
Vol. VII, No.2 

lD
Eleven die • 
Olympic tragedy 
by David Binder The first two Israelis were killed early
(c) 1972 New York Times Tuesday morning when Arab commandos, ar­med with automatic rifles, broke into the Munich. Wednesday, Sept. 6-Eleven Israeli quarters of the Israeli team and seized nine other 
Olympic athletes and four Arab terrorists were as hostages, all of whom were killed in the air­killed yesterday in a 23-hour drama that began port shootout between the Arabs and German
Terroris1n 1nars 
with an invasion of the Olympic Village by the policemen and soldiers. Arabs. The bloodshed brought suspension of the Seventeen hours later, four Arab terrorists Olympic Games and early this morning there was

Munich gaJnes 
were killed in an exchange of gunfire with West doubt about when the international competition German police at an airport and a fifth com­would be resumed. mited suicide, after the Arabs attempted to fly to(cl 1972 New York Times 
Cairo with their hostages. policeman also killed At least three other terrorists were found
Tunis, Tunisia --Tunisia today tentatively offered to accept In addition to the slain Israelis and Arabs, a
wounded in the Olympic Village where they had

Israeli hostages from the Palestinian Commandos in Munich if the German policeman was killed and a helicopter
been resisted by knife-wielding Israelis.

possibility arose. pilot was critically wounded. Three Arabs were
The drama ended at the Furstenfekdbruch

A government spokesman said that Tunisia would not say no to wounded. There were some reports that two of
airport, some 15 miles to the southwest of the

the presence of Israeli hostages on Tunisian soil if such an even­the hostages said to have been killed might still 
Olympic Village. The Arab terrorists and their

tuality presented itself and if such a request were made to Tunisia. be alive.
hostages had been flown there in two helicopters,

The spokesman described the act of terrorism as "an act of "It is a dim hope," said Dr. Bruno Merk, the
shortly after 10 p.m. lo_cal_ time.

despair on the part of the victims of injustice who are forced to Interior Minister of Bavaria, "but I am skeptical make their voices heard by such regrettable a?d deplorable on this point." means." The bloodbath at the airport that ended at 1
terrorists demand plane 

a.m. today, came after long hours of negotiation between Germans and Arabs at the IsraeliRome --The Italian police increased security measures at air­At the airport was a Boeing 707 of Lufthansa, quarters in the Olympic Village in which theports and frontier points today following the terrorist attack on the the West German airline, which the attackers Arabs demanded that Israel release 250 im­
Israeli compound at the Olympic Games in Munich. had demanded to take them to Cairo with the prisoned Arab terrorists.
However, security officers here said they had no evidence that hostages they planned to hold for the release of Finally the West German forces supplied thethe terrorist commandos in Munich had been operating from a 250 Arab terrorists being held in Israel. 
helicopters to transport the Arabs and their
logistic base in Italy. Two of the terrorists, with their automatic Israeli hostages to the airport where all were toInvestigators here are still searching for a clandestine rifles, walked about 170 yards from the be flown to Cairo.
operational base of Arab extremists that is believed to exist in helicopters to the plane. Then they returned to Before the violence ended, the Arab actionsRome. Members of diplomatic, trade and cultural missions of pick up the three other Arabs and the hostages. 
were denounced by United Nations Secretaryvarious Arab states and many Arabs living here are known to have On the way to the plane, West German sharp­General Kurt Waldheim, President Nixon and his 
been placed under discreet surveillance. shooters opened fire from the darkness beyond · bemoeratic Presidential adversary, SenatorThe probe into a suspected Arab underground network in Rome the pools of light at the airport. The Arabs George F. McGovern.
was stepped up after an unsuccessful plot last month to blow up an returned the fire. Army. units sent up flares, 
(continued on page 12)

Israeli airliners after take-off from Rome airport. bathing the whole area in light. 
Administrative shuffle ~arks ND summer 
ministry. Sr. Jane Pitts, C.S.J., Faccenda 's appomtment and to theby Ed Ellis Residences, held the Studnt Ac­
assistant rector of Walsh Hall, has reorganization in general has been Observer Associate Editor tivities post for part of the sum­
joined the staff, becoming the first favorable. Student Body President 
mer, but resigned to complete woman ever in the Notre Dame and self-proclaimed Prime MoverAdministrative changes at Notre doctorate studies at Notre Dame in 

Campus Ministry. Bob Kersten was busy girl­
Dame this year bring a shuffled Higher Education Administration. 
watching and unavailable for

lineup to the Office of the Vice­Ackerman will handle special Student Affairs--Organization comment, but his Executive
President for Student Affairs and a projects and will be responsible for Coordinator, Dennis Etienne, new, feminine look to the Office of most administrative dealings with The new Student Affairs office volunteered that the move seemed the Provost. student organizations. He has a will use a horizontal organization "excellent." Faccenda, he said,
University Vice-President and Ph.D. in student personnel work, pattern, according to Faccenda. 
"seems quite efficient as an ad­

General Counsel Philip J. Fac­the only person in the Notre Dame This means that all major ministrator, and he doesn't give
cenda took charge of the Student office with such a degree. decisions will be discussed by the students the run-around !ike so
Affairs office June 1 for a one year entire central staff, which consists many people around here." term as Acting Vice-President and Sr. John Miriam and Sue Roberts Sr. John Miriam of Faccenda, Flannigan, Shilts, Research and Developmentimmediately rearranged the roles Ackerman, Riehle, Toohey and 
Commissioner Jim Clarke said,of the "central staff" in the office. Rev. James T. Burtchaell, Rev. James Riehle, C.S.C., who Swartz. Faccenda noted that if a "Faccenda has a reputation

C.S.C., University Provost, will continues as Dean of Students, and concensus cannot be reached by among students for knowingStudent Activities have Sr. John Miriam Jones, Rev. James Flannigan, C.S.C., the central staff, "I'll have to take what's going on and how to getrecipient of a Ph.D. in who now has, in the words of the ball and run with it myself." things done. It's good to see
The major switch brings former Microbiology from Notre Dame, as Faccenda, "the halls as his area of Faccenda himself will retain his someone like this in student af­
assistant dean of 'students Dr. an assistant to the Provost. Sr. central responsibility." position as Vice-President and fairs. It's long overdue, but I guess Robert Ackerman to the position of John Miriam will also teach Under this system, Resident General Counsel in addition to his this is as good a year as any to
Director of Student Activities, Microbiology. Assistants are responsible to their temporary duties as Student Af­begin."formerly held by Rev. James Mrs. Walter G. Roberts, of rectors alone, instead of to the fairs head. This situation is the Clarke also said he was pleasedShilts, C.S.C., who will now handle Edwardsburg, Michigan, a Director of Student Residences. result of the failure of the Vice­
with Dr. Ackerman's appointment administrative details for the member of the Advisory Com­The rectors, in turn, are respon­Presidential Search Committee to to Director of Student Activities.
office. Rev. Thomas Chambers, mittee on Coeducation, will assist sible to Fr. Flannigan. Fr. Riehle find a suitable replacement for 
C.S.C., former Director of Student Sr. John Miriam, whose "Central is responsible for room Rev. Thomas Blantz, C.S.C., who responsibility" is to insure a placements. retired at the end of last year.smooth transition to coeducation. Mrs. Jeanne Swartz, wife of 
Sue Roberts described the role of Economics Professor Thomas Prospects for relief the additions in Fr. Burtchaell's Swartz, joins the Student Affairs office as "helping out." staff in an official capacity as an Faccenda . said he expects . a 
"In short " she said "We must assistant to the Vice-President. replacement to be found by the end find the pedple who ne~d help, not Faccenda noted that she has been of this semester, if not sooner. The 
just the people in Badin and Walsh, working for the office in an new VP would take over next June but the people all over the campus. unofficial capacity for some time, 1. Faccenda, himself a member of Then we must plan ahead so that and he said that this appointment the Search Committee, com­these and other problems will not was just recognizing an existing mented, "I can assure you that I happen again." situation. 
will be the most active member of 
Campus Ministry Director Rev. the committee." Student Affairs--Housing William Toohey, C.S.C., has the only nob in the student affairs area Reaction The job of Director of Student that is unchanged, and even he has Residences has been split between added a woman to the campus Reaction from student leaders to




l ~ 
l 
l 
~ 
1 



If you were elected King... 
...Wouldn't you want your mom to know all about it? 
(send The Observer home) here's how 


IOBSERVER. I
Address jjj~ Sent by I 
warld briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Leonid Brezhnev and other Kremlin leaders. Enroute to Moscow, Kissinger is stopping over in West Germany to confer with Chancellor Willy Brandt as well as with the heads of the Christian Democratic op­position in Bonn. 
Los Angeles--Visibly elated by the response of Labor Day crowds, Sen. George McGovern took his campaign for the White House to the President's home state of California, sharpening his attacks on the Nixon administration as he went. Following a visit to a food-distribution center for the unemployed in Seattle, the Democratic candidate flew to Los Angeles for a mass rally. 
llarrisburg. Pa. --The Rev. Philip Berrigan was sentenced in Federal District Court to four concurrent two-year prison terms for smuggling letters out of the Lewisburg Penitentiary. He and seven others had originally been accused of plotting to kidnap Presidential advisor Henry Kissinger, but the jury was deadlocked on those charges and the government confirmed after sentencing that it would not press them again. 
8:00 
am--classes begin 

8:00 
pm--seminar, theology and community services seminar, library lounge. 


thursday 

4:00 
pm--seminar, john I. magee, radiation chemistry in the 70's. 

4:00 
pm--orientation, army rotc orientation, library auditorium and lounge. 


at nd-smc 
Shuttle bus schedules 
Shuttle bus service between the 
campuses of St. Mary's and Notre 
Dame will resume today, ac­
cording to the office of the Dean of 
Administration. 
The service will again offer express and local buses as it did last year. The expresses will leave from Nieuwland Science Hall and Moreau Parking Lot with stops at the Grotto and Madaleva Hall. 
The Dean's office requested that students without back to back classes at St. Mary's and Notre Dame use the local buses instead of tge expresses. "Expresses are scheduled to insure that a student with back-to-back classes on op­posite campuses will not be late for class." 
The schedule for the expressesis: 
MWF TI'H 

AM 7:40 SMC AM 7:40 SMC 
7:50 ND 7:50 ND 

8:00 SMC 8:53 SMC 8:55 9:00 ND 9:05 9:20 9:58 9:30 
10:05 9:58 10:50 ND 10:50 11:05 11:00 11:15 
TI'H 

MWF PM 12:50 SMC 
PM 1:05 1:00 2:08 1:10 2:15 1:10 2:50 ND 2:35 

3:00 SMC 2:45 ND 
3:13 ND 3:10 ND 3:20 3:20 SMC 
4:15 SMC 4:00 ND 
4:10 SMC ND--Departs from Notre Dame Campus Only SMC--Departs from St. Mary's Campus Only 
The local service will depart from each campus at ap­proximately 15 minute intervals beginning at 8:10a.m. from Notre Dame and 8:25 from Saint Mary's until 12:30 a.m. daily except Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. The schedule for these three days will be: 
Friday 8:10 to 2:30 Saturday 12:00 to 2:30 Sunday 12:00 to 12:30 
After 6:00p.m. on weekdays and all day on Saturday and Sunday, a 10 cent fare wilJ be in effect. 
-BICYCLES­

MIDDLE WEIGHTS LIGHT WEIGHTS RACING 
3 SPEED--S SPEED--10 SPEED--TANDEMS 


THE OBSERVER 
Hall renovations 
Wednesday, September 6, 1972 Page 3 

Badin & 
.. 
Walsh 
renovated 
Men continue to work on improving Badin and Walsh Halls. One ad­

dition is the new spotlights above. 
by Artie Quinn Observer Staff Reporter 
The major renovations un­dertaken this summer in Badin and Walsh Halls should be com­pleted within a week. According to 
-Fr. Jerome Wilson, vice-president for business affairs, the painters are touching up while work on the fire escapes and rain spouts are being completed. The cost for the changes in the women's dorms were originally estimated at $140,000. The final total which should be known by the first of November should not be too far from that figure. 
Fr. Wilson asserted, "The $140,000 is certainly going to be spent and the cost might go as high as $150,000 for the two buildings." 
Students also on board 
SMC names new regents board 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 

Six new members have been added to St. Mary's Board of Regents, formerly called the Board of Trustees, and a seventh will be chosen sometime in the near future. 
Fr. John P. Whalen of Oneonta, New York, has been named vice­chairman of the board, replacing William Cahill of Chicago, who resigned his post during the merger dispute. 
Other new board members are Charles Ingold, vice-president of the Wurlitzer company; Dr. Stanley J. Idzerda, President of the College of St. Benedict; Dr. Edward Henry, President of St. Mary's; Mrs. Timothy P. Galvin, Jr. of Munster, Indiana; and Ms. Jean Seymour, St. Mary's student body president. The faculty will elect a representative to the board soon after the fall term begins. 
Sr. Katherine Francis Ford, 
C.S.C. 
from Dunbarton College in Washington, D.C. succeeds Mother 

M. 
Olivette Whalen to the chair­manship of the board. Sr. Gerald 


Hartney, C.S.C. and P. Jordan Hamel retain their posts as secretary and treasurer respec­tively. 
The present board structure is nine lay persons, six Holy Cross sisters, and one priest. The previous arrangement was eight sisters, one priest, and five laymen. 
Membership in the new board is flexible, and may grow up to forty members. President Henry speculated that it would ultimately reach that limit, but only after a number of years. Board mem­bership will also be rotated, with members initially assigned to one, two, or three year terms. 
Members of the old board who did not return are William Cahill, Fr. Neil McClusky, S.J., and Sr. Alma Clare Stoeckinger, C.S.C. Cahill yesterday commented on the direction he now sees St. Mary's taking. 
"I hope that St. Mary's will do very well," Cahill said. "I have always held the faculty and the school as a whole in high regard." 
Cahill emphasized that he harbored "no hard feelings" since 

The list of the major renovations included day beds (22 for Badin ­24 for Walsh), new blankets built-in wardrobes for each room, a dresser for each resident, new towel bars, safety chains for each students's door, new outside doors, new locks on rooms, new sections of fire escapes, new fire doors leading to the fire escapes, a complete paint job, new laundry rooms. 
Medicine cabinets and new sinks were placed in Badin. Badin's front porch was rebuilt and Walsh recived new rainspouts. Also, urinals were removed and replaced by sinks, mirrors and all lights in both dorms. 
There are no plans for any other major changes for either hall in the near future unless the women initiate a plan of their own. 
leaving the board, although it was due to a profound difference in philosophy. Apparently that philosophy has changed, he ob­served, in the incorporation of the college and the restructuring of the board. 
In reference to the termination of the merger, Cahill believes that SMC will be hurt in time by in­creased women inrollment at Notre Dame. However, he praised the action of President Henry in his push for incorporation-an issue which Cahill himself had per­sonally supported for the past 10 years. 
"I haven't kept in very close touch with the college since I left the board," Cahill said, "but ap­parently he's doing a fine job-his first few steps have been in the right direction." 
Henry was optimistic in his outlook for the coming year. In a letter sent to students over ·the summer, he states: " ... we hope that this move, plus the full representation of students on the planning committees ... will fulfill in a more concrete way the concept of "community government" that 

, ~
, 
,
,
, 
~ 
~ 
~ 
majors." 

"Changes cannot come over­night," Henry remarked, "but the processes have been created so that changes can be effected. That is the first and, I believe, the most important step of all." 
has been tossed around so frequently in recent years." 
In a more recent interview, Henry indicated he was "pleased with the progressive attitude of students toward experiential education and proposed new 

Wednesday, September 6, 1972 
Provost names department heads 
Five new department chairmen Owen E. Brady (English), John Lewis M. Perkey (Radiation Rushton, Jr. (Art). highlight the list of 57 new faculty S. Brennan (Center for Study of· Laboratory), Rev. Claude E. Thomas J. Schlereth (American 
members released by the office of Man), William G. Burton the Provost. <Biology), Vivina R. Canino 
William Cerny will assume a (Architecture Rome Program), professor's position and hold the Albert B. Chu <Mathematics), chairmanship of the music Sister Miriam P. Cooney CSC department. The department of (Mathematics).architecture will now be headed by Professor Ambrose M. Richard­Judity M. Daher (Modern and son. Classical Lang.), Paula May 
Three new military men· will Dawning <Freshman Year), David move into chairman's slots in Air G. Donovan (Library), James A. Force, Military, and Naval Science Duncan (Chemistry), Msgr. John 
Departments. Colonel Joseph J. Egan (Theology), Larry J. Falvey will be in charge of the Air Gerstein <Mathematics). Force, Colonel Alvin Gendron will 
Norman J. Giradot (Theology),head the Military, and the Naval Rev. Eugene F. Gorski CSCCommander will be Captain <Theology), Alexander J. HahnWilliam McLean. 
<Mathematics), William J. Heisler 
Also new to the ROTC divisions <Management>, Gail A. Herndon will be Major Alexander Cochran <Library), Rev. James E. Kelly<Military Science), Major Thomas CSC <Sociology>.Dalzell <Naval Science), Lt. Cmdr. 
Robert L. Kerby <History),Kenneth Denbow (Naval Science), 
Cmdr. Robert Gennette (Naval Sister Madonna C. Kolbenschlag (English), James J. Lopach
Science), Captain Howard Hanson (Government), Eldred H.
<Air Force Science), and Captain MacDonell NO (Aerospace andDonald Weimer (Military Scien­Mechanical Eng.), Louisce). 
Mackenzie, Jr. <Modern and Other new faculty appointments Classical Lang.), Rev. William N. were: Matthews CSC (Freshman Year). Adam S. Arnold (Finance), Carole Elizabeth Moore Craig J. Benham (Mathematics), <History), David Morgan Karen L. Bergwall (Freshman (Biology), Joseph A. Neisendorfer Year), John J. Bernardo <Mathematics), Thomas L. Nowak <Management>, Frank E. Booker (Chemistry), Rev. Marvin R. <Law School>, Vittoria Bosco O'Connell (History), William T. (Modern and Classical Lang.). Onorato <London Law Program). 
Jazz program underway here at Washington Hall 
Anew program in jazz education Father Wiskirchen comes to the is being inaugurated this fall at university with a long background Notre Dame under the direction of in educational jazz and a nation­the Rev. George Wiskirchen, wide reputation for work in this 
C.S.C. The first phase of the field. His previous jazz bands from program will be the organization of Notre Dame High School in Niles, a big jazz band a~ the uniersity. Illinois have been highlights of 
Membership in the University NO's Collegiate Jazz Festival for Jazz Band is open to any student the past 12 years and he has who is interested in jazz ex­written extensively on perience. Auditions will be held on coeducational jazz in Down Beat Friday, September 8th at 7:00p.m. and in other publications. at the Band Room in Washington With this new program it is Hall. planned that Notre Dame will not 
According to the director, the only host the premier college jazz music to be performed in this first festival in the spring but will also 
r phase of the program will be of a be solidly represented among the jazz and jazz-rock nature with an festival participants. emphasis on improvisation. Later Students with conflicts for the planned developments include audition time can contact Father small combo work and im­Wiskirchen (283-6303) for further provisation workshops. information. 
Pomerleau CSC (Government), Studies), Alfred A. Susu (Chemical Allan L. Port (Mathematics), Rev. Eng.), Robert Wilken (Theology), William F. Presley <Freshman James L. Wittenbach (Ac­Year(, Howard L. Reiter countancy). <Government), Joseph G. 
20% over goal 

Summa drive tops $62 million 1nark 
The University of Notre Dame's most ambitious development program has finished 20 per cent over its 52 million goal. 
The five-year capital gifts campaign, called "Summa," ended June 30 with gifts and commitments totaling 62.4 million dollars from 32,129 individuals, corporations and foundations. 
Special note was made of alumni giving in which 24,379 persons made commitments averaging 1,036 dollars -more than double what Notre Dame alumni had averaged during the last capital gifts effort. 
A brea1tdown by source of giving showed 32.3 million dollars from individuals, including 7.3 million dollars from parents; 12.4 million dollars from bequests, including the campaign's largest gift of 9.6 million dollars from the estate of Eastman Kodak Stockholder Florence Dailey of Rochester, 
Protestant award given Hesburgh 
Rev. The?rlore M. Hesburgh, 
C.S.C.., president of theUniversity of Notre Dame, and Chancellor Willy Brandt of West Germany are the first recipients of the newly established Reinhold Niebuhr Awards. 
The two were announced in June along with the establishment of a fund honoring the Protestant theologian and author who died in June, 1971 Niebuhr had taught for many years at New York's Union TheologicalSeminary, and the fund sponsored oy friends and colleagues wll support annual awards to persons whose con­tribution in the areas of social justice, public life or world affairs exemplify his commitments. 
N.Y.; 9.6 million dollars from Foundations, and 8 million dollars from corporations,includingone of the largest corporate unrestricted gifts to a University -1 million dollars from Gulf and Western Industries. 
A SOUND 
OFFER 
-~ 

TWA 
-~ 

Trans World 
Airlines weicomes 
you to Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
For information regarding group travel, youth cords, Getaway credit cords, and flight schedules, call Don Sheehan at 
283 3610. 
Make money "repplng" an Ohio-based distributor of famous name audio ~nd stereo equipment on your campus. Everybody likes music, so your job ~~really easy. You run your own thing and earn good bread If you do It nght.. We think t~is is a.d,amn good offer, and we'll back it up. It's more than lUSt a sales 10b......1t sa guarantee of an exclusive franchise on your campus. You get all the action yourself. And you'll get our help every step of the way. No investment required. 
Interested? ? ? WRITE TODAY. P.O. Box 46167 We'll be in touch. 
Bedford Heights, Ohio 44146 
Any club or organization wishing to participate in Activities Night, to be held 
Wednesday, September 13, 
in LaFortune Student Center should contact the Student Activities Office {7308) or New Student Orientation {3378) by September 9. 


TYPISTS 
EARN EASY$$$$$$ 
REGULAR SCHEDULE 9 HOURS PER WEEK FRINGE BENEFITS $1.60 I HOUR STARTING 

CALL 1715 OR VISIT THE OBSERVER OFFICE TODAY 
~ 
r 


by Don Ruane 
The Presidential candidates or their running mates have been invited to Notre Dame at their convenience this fall to discuss the campaign issues. 
No reply has been received from either the Democratic headquarters of Sen. George McGovern, or the Republican headquarters of President Nixon, according to Helen Horinski , secretary to University President Theodore M. Hesburgh. 
Fr. Hesburgh extended the invitations in letters Aug. 28, as part of a personal tradition he began at the beginning of his career as president in 1952. 
'We have done this for the past twenty years, including the top candidates from both parties, so that our students might be more aware of the historic era through 
McGovern

which we are passing in an election vear, Fr. Hesburgh wrote. · He added a pinch of political Sargent Shriver. Shriver has Sen. Edward Kennedy and Sen. spice when he reminded the visited the South Bend area Edmund Muskie are under con­candidates that most students now several times. and is considered 'a sideration. but no invitations have have the right to vote, and the friend of the area, by one county been made as yet. importance of their voting in­Democratic official. The committee met yesterday telligently and conscientiously Fr. Hesburgh has met with morning but it is still in ·'just the whatever their political choice. moderate success in attracting talkative stage." and "nothing has 
While major politicians to the campus in gone out of the county yet," Doran Indiana is not a particularly im­election years. Nixon came after said. portant state <it had 11 district his election as Vice President; The committee's primary choice electoral votes, and two at large Henry Cabot Lodge was given a is probably Sen. Kennedy, electoral votes in 1968) there is brief reception as a VP candidate; although Sen. Muskie 'is a good another reason besides the youth Adlai Stevenson and Harry' name in this area, according to vote that might attract one of both Truman, came to town as Doran, because of the strong candidates. That is the Catholic presidential candidates; William Polish and working class blcock. vote. Combine the two factors Miller and Edmund Muskie came Doran said he did not think this and Notre Dame becomes a rather as Vice Presidential candidates, area is ready for McGovern, and logical place for a candidate to and both John and Robert Kennedy termed Fr. Hesburgh's invitation a speak. There is yet another came during the primary season of formality. n•ason. albeit minor, which might their campaigns. However, he did encourage 1111prove the chance of George The St. Joseph's County young people to register, and !\k<;overn or his runningmate Democrats are also considering quoted the following thought for l'isiting the campus . In 1968 Fr. several political leaders for a the day: 'Voters who stay away I h·shurgh traveled to Paris to speaking invitation. County from the polls this fall will play a present the Laetare Medal to the Chairman W. Joseph Doran said big part in picking the wrong then Ambassador to. France yesterday that Sen.Tom Eagleton, candidate." 
Nixon 

NEED A CHEST OF ORAWERS? 
BUY IT UNPAINTED ..• SAVE 1/2 OR MORE! 
HOW ABOUT A RUG? 
BIG SAVINGS ON ALL SIZES! 
Complete Selection of 
NEWEST STYLES AND COLORS! 
JUST ABOUT EVERYTHING IN BOOKCASES, CHESTS, RECORD CABINETS, END TABLES .•. YOU NAME ITI 

"SERVING NOTRE DAME SINCE 1948" 
WILLIAM'S 
RUGS and UNPAINTED FURNITURE 
AND NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION FREI! DELIVERY

AT THE OLD FIELDHOUSE 
259-5243 
2Bii-2181 

also at 2609 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET, SOUTH BEND and 1217 EAST McKINLEY (U.S. 20), MISHAWAKA 






rent a refrigerator 


for the whole year 
I 
.. 
The perfect solution for late night snacks, study breaks, and even a whole meal . . . save money ... no more vending machines to gobble up your funds . . . save time . . . it's right in your own room ... rent one for the whole year for only pennies per day ... even less ... when cost is split with your roommate ... approved by the university for in-room use ... compact ... lightweight . . . handsome walnut exterior has a beautiful furniture appearance ... doubles as a table ... quick freezing ... can freeze up a new tray of large size ice cubes in only 45 minutes ... holds ove~ 36 cans of canned drinks ... if unit fails call representative for immediate replacement 
•.. free pick up and delivery included in rental fee ... limited supply -call now to reserve your unit today! 
COLD DRINKS ICE CUBES SNACKS 
RIGBT IN YOUR ROOM ! 


call DOW 
FOR FREE DELIVERY 283-1553 
or 
283-7757 
only $22.50 per semester (based upon yearly rates) 
sponsored by ALPHA PHI OMEGA &THE STUDENT UNION OF NOTRE DAME Box 639 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
APO profits will be donated to Sister Marita Day School 

1, 1 
1 
1 
,1 
,
,
,
, 
,
, 

, , , ~ 
1 
, 
1 
1 1 
~ 
.. 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Dan Thornton Editor-in-chief Business Manager
News: 283-1715 Editorial: 283-8661 
Joe ButlerDon RuaneBusiness: 283-7471 

Executive Editor Advertising Manager 

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Wednesday, September 6, 1972 
Welcome changes 
One of the truest expressions ever uttered on this campus rolled off the tongue of one of the inhabitants of the administration building. "Student affairs is the area Notre Dame has screwed up the longest and hardest." 
There is impressive evidence for this statement. Although the creation of the post of Vice President for Student Affairs r was a move in the right direction, the r office has been held for the past two years on a temporary basis. As acting VP Fr.
~ 
Thomas Blantz ran an ad hoc show. Fifty­
r 
three people were directly responsible to
r 
him. As an ex-officio member of the
r 
Student Life Council he also held veto 
r r power over any of the SLC's decisions. 
r The veto was not flaunted but on several occasions Fr. Blantz made it very clear that he intended to ignore the council's decision. 
On and Off 
The search committee for a new VP for Student Affairs has been meeting off and on for more than five months and there is still no recommendation for the position,
r but the new Acting VP has reorganized the office so completely that it's nearly impossible to recognize. In fact, you can't even find it if you go looking in the old student center offices; it's moved to 309 in the Administration building. Philip Faccenda accepted the position of Acting VP on the condition that he could make "a few basic changes." "Basic changes" is an understatement. Only six people are directly responsible to Faccenda, whose permanent position as Vice President and General Counsel already represents a heavy burden. These six people, according to Faccenda, form the central decision-making committee. The responsibilities of each assistant ~re now very clear. Fr. James Flanigan is in charge of rectors, Dr. Robert Ackerman--student activities, Fr. William Toohey--campus ministry, Fr. James Reihle--Dean of Students and on­campus housing.
r 
While these four, plus Fr. James Shilts and Ms. Jeanne Swartz, will do the bulk of research and make recommendations,
f it still remains for Faccenda to evaluate 
r 
the results and make a final decision. 
Full Time Job 
However, he will not be ableto devote full time to student affairs, because of his duties as General Counsel. This is un­
r fortunate, because the Vice President for Student Affairs is the Administration's most direct link with the student body,
f 
making it a very important and full time 
r r job. He should not split his time with another office. The committee to find a new VPSA must increase its efforts, and 
r 
fill the office as soon as possible. 
r 
It would be difficult for a new per-
r 
r 
,r 
manent vice president to learn enough 
about the students and their 
organizations this semester, but at least 
he would know enough of the ropes by the 
middle of January to improve student 
affairs and assist student leaders during 
the second semester. 
The search committee has been con­
centrating on finding a suitable applicant 
from among the Holy Cross fathers. This 
has not been productive. The committee 
should expand its emphasis in the area of 
lay applicants, as well as increasing the 
pace of its search. 
John Abowd Don Ruane 


Spoiled sport 
The Olympic Games are intended to be 
a showcase of mankind's athletic ac­
complishments. They are an occasion for 
the world's greatest athletes to meet the 
best possible competition, in an at­
mosphere of good sportsmanship, and to 
test the skills they had developed during 
years of training and hard work. 
Instead, the Olympic Games have become an arena for political activity. The needless, tragic deaths of the 11 kidnapped Israeli athletes Tuesday is the latest, and most appalling, incident in a series of politically-oriented actions that have marred the 20th Olympiad. 
Even before the Games began, a political power play by the African nations brought about Rhodesia's disbarment from the competition. 
That incident was almost forgotten in the beautiful, thrilling opening ceremonies and it seemed as if, when the Olympic flame was lit atop the stadium in Munich, the true spirit of the Games burned in the competitors and officials assembled in the stadium. 
The feeling was short-lived, however, as complaints were hear time and again about the favoritism shown by judges in the boxing, diving, wrestling and gym­nastics competitions. 
Then, Tuesday, came the shocking news about the Israelis. 
Rather than reveling in the joy brought about by Mark Spitz's unprecedented feat of winning weven gold medals, the world instead mourns the passing of 11 devoted men, 11 athletes who wished only to compete. 
These 20th Olympic Games have brought no real triumphs for man, only failures. That's a tragedy. 
Jim Donaldson 
Talkinr:~ Did Saldiers 
·······~···,····· ....... ..,::·;: 

Back at 
the Dome 

fred '=Jiuffrida 
The fall rendezvous with the Lady of the Lake has been completed 
again, and for the elderly fold on campus, for the last time. The 
educated <=\~ anyway> eye of the senior espies some facets of this 
return that mark it from those that preceeded it. These aspects are 
varied, but they do hold in common th~ fact that each in its own way 
presents questions which leave the direction of dulac uncertain. 
The most immediate disaster is, of course, the appalling living 
conditions which welcome the freshman. In comparison with other 
schools, ND's housing has always been ghettoish, but it has recently 
been approaching respectability. 
Last year, we had freshmen living temporarily in the infirmary (a 
morguish thought for sure), but this year the problem has quintupled 
and they are now peopling study lounges and basements (an even 
worse thought>. One is surprised that beds have not been installed in 
the livrary carrels, but that would have violated the constitution's 
clause on cruel and unusual punishments. The real crunch is whether 
they will ever correct some of the forced doubles and triples that are 
among the lesser evils. 
Bad housing is an accustomed sight here, but the vision of a girl 
sunbathing in a bikini atop Walsh Hall is startling enough to prompt 
shock treatment (and thus disqualify you aspiring politicians from the 
vice-presidency. Have faith, though, statistics have proven that you 
must bl.' nuts to run for the presidency). 
Yes, coeducation is finally here, but instant paradiso, we shall not 
have. In point of fact, there are many difficult times ahead because 
Notre Dame, from top to bottom, will simply need time to adjust to the 
presence of women on campus <at night too-legally). Still, in contrast 
to the housing situation, ND is moving in the right direction here. 
High above these terrestrial considerations and their earthly abode, 
there sits the greatest Enigma of them all on his ethereal throne. One 
wonders what the King will do to or for his people. Will he send down 
his wizard, and, as rumor has, his adopted son, Ed Gray, Keeper ofthe 
Cat, to save his people from their terrible oppressions? Will he send 
his good friar H-Man to save the souls of the rabble and lead them in 
merriment? Or will he abdicate and leave the illiterate peons to fend 
for themselves. 
This campus has never had a King before and our Holy Cross ad­
ministrators have never dealt with One who is in dii:ect contact with 
the Highest One. They may well burn him as a heretic and wreak 
havoc upon the rabble who followed him. 
Seriously, the question is whether Notre Dame's limited student 
self-government will lapse or whether Bob Kersten will successfully 
transform the instrument he so viciously attacked into one which will 
meet the needs of the future. In the long run this is much more im­
portant that two-thirds of the campus or probably even Kersten 
himself realized last year. 
Of course, the average student, particularly if this be his last year, 
need be only academically concerned with these questions. We can 
still drink beer, play basketball, and watch football games to our 
heart's content. Classes will awaken us each day and tests and papers 
will pass our way ad infinitum. After all, despite all the cosmic 
problems which plague us, ND is still the same old place to live day 
after day. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Nite Editor: Jack Frischkorn Nite Staff: Joe Abell, Maria Gallagher, Don Ruane, Chris Sullivan Typists: the new gang Nite Controller: Joe Wilkowski 
--------, 



Recardinras j 
j j

trilogy: more of the ~ 
jaseph abell 
same old good stuff 

This may seem odd to you, but I've always considered Emerson, Lake, and Palmer as a rather strange, mysterious group. About once every 7-8 months, they'll come out with an LP of very creative (and vaguely pessimistic! music, and will promptly disappear for another 7-8 months. Concerts seem rare. and I've known few people who've seen EL&P in person. 
But the music remains, to fascinate in its complexity and in the virtuosity of Keith Emerson's keyboard work, to disturb in the faintly dischordant tone of Greg Lake's voice and lyrics, and to vastly entertain in its capacity to understand rock trends. 
The original Emerson, Lake and Palmer did this from the haunting "Take a Pebble" to the simple and popular-for-a-short-time "Lucky Man." It happened again when the group foreshadowed Jethro Tull's Thick As A Brick by recording Tarkus' single-side statement. And ~·et again <though not so .. successfully l with the extremely ambitious 
Pictures At An Exhibition. 
And now we're here again, with something called Trilogy. The same mysteriousness, the same breath of evil and madness; yet the same excitement that goes along with an EL&P recording. But somehow. I get the impression that this recording will meet the same fate as its predecessors, perhaps because of EL&P's deep understanding of general musical forms. an understanding not found in a great deal of popular music. And it's really a shame that the public would rather pay for. and listen to. more inferior craft­manship. 
Unfortunately, however, Trilogy as a 
whole is musically inferior to the standards set by the two previous EL&P recordings <I'm not really counting Pictures, since it's not an original work). It doesn't have the deep down excitement and creative trap­pings of Tarkus, and it doesn't have the dazzling cleverness of the premier album. Granted, it reaches all of these adjectives at times; for instance "Hoedown" is a very lively and inventive rearrangement of a familiar song of Aaron Copeland's, and "The Endless Enigma," though slow starting, brings out Emerson's diverse keyboards and Lake's commanding voice excellently. But on the whole, the album is more-or-less average EL&P--better than a lot of groups, but not fantastic. 
The album does confirm one thing, though: Keigh Emersons' talent for keyboard. He dazzles and astounds as he leaps from organ to moog to piano with no apparent hesitation or problems. He's benefited from the March of Progress in his more frequent use of moog than before. Where before he operated primarily from church and a heavy-handed-sounding organ in the first LP, he has moved to more "lighter" organ and more special effects on the moog. Verdict: improvement--he has a much less bleak sound and more of a lively one. 
And another talent emerges, albeit at the end of the record: that of arranger ex­cellante. "Abaddon's Bolero" is a march that draws back memories of King Crim­son's "Devil's Triangle" and is evil soun­ding enough to fit in that changing-of-the­guards scene in The Wizard of Oz; but the most significant part of the song is the crescendo of different sounds. All of them are produced by the moog of course, but 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Trilogy 
Emerson, Lake, & Palmer 
Cotillion 509903 
$5.98 list 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
they· effectively take on the characteristics of a full orchestra. Everything from simulated trumpets to tubas play a part to produce a climax that doesn't disappoint. What he could do with a real orchestra would be very interesting to see. 
But this buildup of Emerson is not a put­down of Lake and Palmer. While the latter is rather insignificant in the role of drum­mer. the former is very much a part of forming the style of the group. His rock hard <no pun intended) bass lines form the very solid framework for Emerson's creations and Lake has proven that he's no amateu; when it comes to writing. His simple "Lucky Man" from an earlier album and now his again simple "From the Beginning" are the Top 40 showcase pieces for their respective LPs. Yet he can also write more com­plexely. as his partnership with Emerson shows. especially on the title track of this album. 
The group has its fun too---no group can put out an entirely "serious" work and succeed for long---in the rinky-tink "Sheriff'' and the unusually short 1for EL&Pl "Living Sin." 

So there you have it: a keyboard man that ranks in the top five rock keyboard artists, a versatile guitarist and lyricist, and a very competent and efficient drummer, ap­parently enjoying their work and doing a damn good job. 
Three-man groups have a limit on what they can do. and how far they can progress, something proven by the Jimi Hendrix Experience breakup and especially by Grand Funk Railroad. But not so with Emt>rson. Lake and Palmer. Thev have shown that :l-man groups can be both creative and can progress in style. Thus. it sPems curiousthat they haven't attained the notoriety of the others. though their creativity far surpasses them. 
I said that Trilogy will probably meet the fatp of its predecessors: anonymity. Maybe it will. but it sure as hell shouldn't. It's not their best. but it's worth more than a lot of others. 


king's rook to queen's bishop four 
fischer vs spassky: another look 
by Harold C. Schonberg <Cl 1972 New York Times 
It is now September, and Bobby Fischer has been crowned Chess Champion of the World, and the sun goes down around 9:30 
p.m. In June it was different. Bobby Fischer hadn't arrived, and nobody knew if he would, and it was daylight 24 hours a day in this city near the Arctic Circle. At midnight the ocean lapping three sides of the city was light blue, and the gaily painted roofs of the small white buildings in Reyk­javik gleamed their reds, greens and yellows. · An American visitor was invited to go out for a round of golf at an oceanside course. 
"Gladly," he said. "What time?" 
"Shall we tee off at 11?" 
"Sorry. Can't. I have all kinds of things to do in the morning, and... " "No, no. Not in the morning. At 11 o'clock tomorrow night."
The visitor was told to bring a hat. The sixth and ninth holes of the course are trapped --by Arctic terns. They nest in June, do not like intruders, and the spunky birds dive-bomb the golfers. A hat strenuously waved in the air scares them off. 
For chess buffs, it was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity not only to watch Boris and Bobby, but also torubberneckat a gaggle of assorted grandmasters. There in one room, discussing the game, might be Larsen, Najdorf, Gligoric, Byrne, Evans and Lombardy. It was as if a music lover at a violin recital had stumbled into a room in which Stern, Oistrakh, Milstein, Fran­cescatti and Heifetz were analyzing the performance. 
The Russian grandmasters, Geller and Krogius. kept mostly to themselves. Geller ·.vas one of the GREAT SIGHTS OF THE MATCH. He would sit in the lobby, wat­ching the game on a TV monitor, chain­smoking nervously. Feller, a short, thickset man with laugh wrinkles at his eyes, does not have a poker face, and everybody could tell how his man was doing. When Spassky made what Geller thought was an inferior move, Geller would screw up his face in a pained expression and he would puff like a destroyer letting out a smoke screen, 
On June 28, Bobby Fischer fled Kennedy Airport before his scheduled departure for Iceland. His lawyer, Paul Marshall, blamed his action on the press, but an official of Loftleidir, the Icelandic Airline, had a different story. 
Bobby, he said, demanded privacy, so Loftleidir provided him with a limousine. He was brought to the airplane by a back route. Suddenly he decided to enter the airport terminal. He did so and disap­peared. Then he was located in a store, buying an alarm clock. Then he wanted his luggage removed from the plane. He would take a later flight. The luggage was removed. How to kill an hour and a half'? Bobby decided he was h11ngry and went into a restaurant. That waswherethe Press saw him and descended en masse. 
"Bobby wanted to be discovered," con­cluded the Loftleidir official, "He was looking for an excuse not to fly.'' 
The most hectic day of the match? Most would nominate Sunday, July 16. Fischer, angry about conditions in exhibition hall; had booked a flight on each of three planes leaving for New York. This was confirmed by the reservation desk. The journalists were not going to let him sneak out. One young man was selected as a fourth-floor stake-out, and he positioned himself near Bobby's room, a phone at hand, so he could warn everybody if Bobby was on his way down. The American journalists had a fleet of ca~s ready to take off for Keflavik Airport an~ mte_rcept B?bby. The British jour­nalists hired a private plane for the 30-mile trip. It all ended up with Bobby playing the third game in a private room of the hall. 
The funniest day of the match'? Well, there was the afternoon after the Russian charge of American electronic and chemical warfare against SJ!assky . An X­ray of Spassky's chair had revealed a foreign object, and the chair was taken apart. The stage looked like a hospital operating room. Pieces of chair were strewn all over the arena. An upholsterer was picking at its insides. A cop was on duty in case the unknown object was a bomb. Worried officials of the Icelandic Chess Federation were standing by, wringing their hands, wondering if the !%'?'? chair could ever be put together again. 
Toward the end of the match, the children of Iceland discovered that selling autographs of chess celebrities was big business. The kids, those beautiful, platinum-haired, blue-eyed junior vikings, would waylay celebrities. "Please, your autograph'?" Most everybody around here speaks English. The kids soon learned to approach grandmasters not with one, or even five cards, but with 20 or 30. "Please'?" It was hard to resist them, but some grandmasters did. During the last week a guard was placed outside of the pressroom to keep the kids from entering. 
If one man can be said to have held the match together, it was the referee, Lothar Schmid, during the interminable hassling, during all of Fischer's demands and ultimatums, he was calm, polite, un­flustered. But one day after the match he sagged. The reaction had set in. "I don't feel so good." he admitted at lunch. Like everybody else connected with the match of the century, he wants to take the vacation of the century. 
Now that the match is over, Icelanders are bracing themselves for something even bigger--a possible cold war with England. Iceland, stating its existence depends on exclusivity in its fishing grounds, is pushing her territorial limit outward to 50 miles. The British are conte~ting this, and a showdown may be imminent. Last time this happened. a few years ago, the two gunboats of the Icelandic Navy steamed out and engaged the British fleet, loading its guns, it is said. with potatoes. A barrage of potatoes were shot across the stern of the British Ad­miral's flagship. Nobody really wanted to kill anybody in that war. So last time the Icelandic fleet fought the Royal Navy to a standstill. Will it happen this time? The answer may be forthcoming any day. 


r­
~ 
I 
~ 
I I 
~ 
I I I I 
~ 
I L 
~ 
I I 
•I 
l l 
l• 
•I I I I 
I I 
~ ..... 
I 
•
•
•~ 
I 
I I I 
I . 


i • • 
L------------------------------------~ 
~---:·:· 
!Are ya busy on Thursday night?! I ; . Why not drop inl I 
on I 

t\1 The Observer :! 

We need new staff members in: News Editorial Production Photography Typing Advertising 
1~ Why don't you show up.? I, 
N ~ 
General and New Staff Meeting 
~ 7:30 Thursday Night r
I I 
i 20 LaFortune Student Center 
.·.·
.·.•
..•. 
:::: 
t 
:::: :::: *** 
I .... Those interested in reporting .... 
should register for Newswriting AMST 345 I See Sr. M. Kolbenschlag for information · 
I ::::..... 
:-:· 
~1:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::;:;:;;::;: 
.... 
9
Wednesday, September 6, 1972 the observer 

Six new department heads 
SMC undergoes administrative changes 
Notre Dame) will be guest lec­the Drug Action Program in South has been named an assistant

' 
by Maria Gallagher 
turers in that department. Bend, will lecture part time in professor, Mr. F. Eugene Hess In the chemistry-physics psychology, as will Dr. Ivan <M.A. Indiana University), a 
A number of administrative and department, Dr. Stanley Lichtman Pangrac, head psychologist of the county social worker, will lecture academic changes marked the <Ph.D Syracuse University) has St. Joseph County Mental Health part time in that department, as past summer for St. Mary's, ac­been named an associate Clinic. will the Rev. James Kelley (Ph.Dcording to Dr. William Hickey, professor, and Dr. Andrew Boyle .Ms. Joyce Marieb <doctoral University of North Carolina). 
Vice-President for Academic <Ph.D Notre Dame), Dr. Charles candidate, Boston University) will In the speech and drama Affairs. Brambel <Ph.D Johns Hopkins), be either an assistant professor or department, Dr. Charles Six new department chairmen, and Mr. Gary Marolt (doctoral instructor in religious studies. Heimerdinger (Ph.D Indiana seventeen new full time and candidate in physics, Notre Dame) In the sociology department, Dr. (Continued on page 12)
fourteen new part time faculty will be the guest lecturers. Jean Byrne (Ph.D Notre Dame) 
have been hired, four new majors In the economics-business are available, and the academic department, Mr. Arthur Jackson dean's office has been replaced <M.B.A. Notre Dame) and Mr. with a three-part "academic af­Frank Slaby, Jr. (M.B.A. Indiana fairs area." University) will serve as in­
structors.

Administrative Appointments 
Mr. Dominick Boscoe (M.F.A. 

In the administration, a number University of Iowa) will head the of jobs have changed hands and writing program of the English some new ones have been created. department, and Ms. Deanna Dr. Jack Detzler, former provost, Sokolowski (M.A. University of has been appointed Director of Maryland> will also be an in­Community Affairs in the newly­structor in English. Sister Bettina organized Office of Development Batchelder <M.A. English, M.A. and Public Relations headed by educational counseling and Sister Basil Anthony. Detzler: New post guidance, Catholic University) will 
Jason Lindower, formerly be a part-time lecturer in English. 
Assistant Vice President in Ms. Margaret O'Brien (M.A. charge of fiscal affairs, is now Vice University of Chicago) an SMC President of Fiscal Affairs. The Dr. Reginald Bain is acting alumnae, will be an instructor in office of Assistant to the President, chairman of the cooperative the Humansitic Studies depart­unfilled for two years, has now speech and drama department, ment. been occupied by John J. Hof, succeeding Dr. Roger Kenvin. Dr. Donald Prullage <Ph.D. former Executive Director of the Bain received his doctorate from Purdue> has been named an Thomas More Institute in Tucson, the University of Minnesota. associate professor in Arizona. Sister Jeanne Finske, Mr. Leonard Fleck, a doctoral mathematics. past academic dean, has rejoined candidate at St. Louis University Ms. Margaret Woods (B.A. St. the Education department. Sister and assistant professor of Mary's College), a teacher from 
Alma Peter, former acting philosophy last year at SMC, will St. Joseph's high school in South president of the college, has been serve as acting chairman of the Bend, will lecture part-time in named coordinator of off-eampus now independent philosophy Spanish. programs. department. The spot was for­Drs. Edward Gozodowski (Ph.D 
merly held by the Rev. Ernan Notre Dame) and Alan Nasser 
Department Chairman Shuffle McMullin, who headed the merged <Ph.D Indiana University) have 
departments of both Notre Dame been named assistant professors in 
Dr. Clarence Dineen reassumed and St. Mary's. philosophy.chairmanship in the Biology Dr. John McDonagh, also an Dr. Michael Sheehan <Ph.D St. department, replacing Dr. William assistant professor last year, will Louis University), a member of 

ND student discounts 
-30% off on Latex paint 
-15% off on unpainted furniture 
333 S. Michigan 289·2439 
Please Compare Ill 
Before You Buy Or Lease a 

REFRIGERATOR 
Look for these features: 
Look for these features: 
4.6 Cubic Feet (The Legal Limit) B Push Button Defrosting Sliding Shelves Work Top No Deposit FREE Delivery -Maintenance -Pickup Local Dealer -Student Reps 
CALL AND COMPARE NOW All this for less than you expect 
CALL NOW ESLINGER LEASE SERVICE 
259 2242 291 5676 

NEW REPUBLIC BOATING 8 mos. $6.50 FLYING COMMENTARY 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.50 1 yr. (48 iss.) $10.00 1 yr. {12 iss.) $3.50 lyr. (12 iss.) $5.00 {1 yr. Reg. $7.00 {1 yr. Reg. $14.00 {1 yr. Reg. $7.00 (1 yr. Reg. $10.00 1 yr. newsstand $9.00) 1 yr. newsstand $24.00) 1 yr. newsstand $9.00) 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) 
SKIING REDBOOK MADEMOISELLE McCALL'S 1 yr. {7 iss.) $2.00 1 yr. (12 iss.) $2.88 9 mos. $2.65 1 yr. {12 iss.) $2.88 2 yrs. $4.00 2 yrs. $5.76 1 yr . .02 iss.) $3.50 2 yrs. $5.76 (1 yr. Reg. $4.00 {1 yr. Reg. $3.95 (1 yr. Reg. $6.00 (1 yr. Reg. $3.95 1 yr. newsstand $4.50) 1 yr. newsstand $7.20) 1 yr. newsstand $7.20) 1 yr. newsstand $6.00) 
MODERN BRIDE STEREO REVIEW POPULAR PHOTOGRAPHY GOLF DIGEST 1 yr. (6 iss.) $2.00 1 yr. {12 iss.) $3.50 1 yr. {12 iss.) $3.50 11 iss. $3.97 (1 yr. Reg. $4.00 {1 yr. Reg. $7.00 {1 yr. Reg. $7.00 {1 yr. Reg. $7.50 1 yr. newsstand $6.00) 1 yr. newsstand $7.20) 1 yr. newsstand $9.00) 1 yr. newsstand $8.25) 
POPULAR ELECTRONICS CAR & DRIVER ROLLING STONE CYCLE 1 yr. {12 iss.) $3.00 1 yr. {12 iss.) $3.50 20 iss. $7.00 l yr. (12 iss.) $3.00 {1 yr. Reg. $6.00 {1 yr. Reg. $7.00 (1 yr. Reg. (26 iss.) $10.00 (1 yr. Reg. $6.00 1 yr. newsstand $6.00) 1 yr. newsstand $7.00) 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) 1 yr. newsstand $6.00) 
PLAYBOY PSYCHOLOGY TODAY SATURDAY REVIEW OF: HOUSE & GARDEN 1 yr. {12 iss.) $8.50 1 yr. {12 iss.) $6.00 THE ARTS 1 yr. (12 iss.). $4.00 {1 yr. Reg. $10.00 {1 yr. Reg. $12.00 THE SOCIETY {1 yr. Reg. $7.00 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) SCIENCE 1 yr. newsstand $9.00) 
EDUCATION
NEW YORKER JET PENTHOUSE
Each title 1 yr. {13 iss.) $6.00
1 yr. {52 iss. )$6.00 6 mos. (26 iss.) $5.50 1 yr. $8.00
(Each title 1 yr. Reg. $8.00)
{1 yr. Reg. $12.00 9 mos. (38 iss.) $7.50 {1 yr. Reg. $10.00 1 yr. newsstand $26.00) 1 yr. {52 iss.) $10.00 NEW YORK MAGAZINE 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) APARTMENT IDEAS {1 yr. Reg. $12.00 1 yr. (52 iss.) $5.00 TV GUIDE 2 yrs. (8 iss.) $3.00 1 yr. newsstand $18.20) {1 yr. Reg. $8.00 28 iss. $2.94 (2 yrs. Reg. $5.00 BRIDE'S MAGAZINE 56 iss. $5.88
1 yr. newsstand $26.00) 2 yrs. newsstand $8.00) 1 yr. (8 iss.) $3.97 HARPER'S MAGAZINE {1 yr. Reg. (52 iss.) $7.00 
VOGUE {1 yr. Reg. $4.00 1 yr. (12 iss.) 1 yr. newsstand $7.80) 1 yr. {20 iss.) $6.50 1 yr. newsstand $8.00) 8 iss. $2.84 GLAMOUR {1 yr. Reg. $10.00 READER'S DIGEST {1 yr. Reg. $8.50 9 mos. $2.65 
1 yr. newsstand $15.00) 1 yr. {12 iss.) $2.50 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) {1 yr. Reg. $6.00 SPORT (1 yr. Reg. $4.97 COUNTRY MUSIC 1 yr. {12 iss.) $3.50 1 yr. {12 iss.) $3.50 1 yr. newsstand $6.00 ) 1 yr. {12 iss.) $6.00 1 yr. newsstand $7.20) {1 yr. Reg. $6.00 ESQUIRE {1 yr. newsstand $7.20 ATLANTIC MONTHLY 1 yr. newsstand $7.20) 14 iss. $5.00 (Note: New subscribers 8 mos. (8 iss.) $3.50 VILLAGE VOICE {1 yr. Reg. $8.50 1 yr. (12 iss) $5.25
get record album from publisher
1 yr. (52 iss.) $5.00 .1 yr. newsstand $14.00) (1 yr. Reg. $10.00 
at no additional cost.)
{1 yr. Reg. $7.00 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) 1 yr. newsstand $13.00) 
rP!;~~~~jy)---------------------------------------­
TO ORDER: 
1~:~i:g .Addre~s . . . .. 
Simply fill in your name, address, school and magazines desired in the City ... . ............ State . .... . Zip . space below. Should you move during I School Yr. Studies End . your subscription period, just inform 
I 
MAGAZINES TERM PRICEthe publisher via address change in· formation found in each magazine. 
I
D Pay now for fastest order-process· ing service. Return this information 
I·I
······················································· ....................................
form with payment {payable to EBSCO) in your own envelope to the address IPlease indicate if renewaL TOTAL AMOUNT OF ORDER $ .... below ... or .. 
EBSCO READERS' SERVICE c::>D We will bill you later. Just fill out I P. 0. Box 1943 Birmingham. AI. 35201 o 
and mail this form to this address: I (Offer good in U. S. only. Publisher prices subject to change.) Z 
..... ., 
···: 
·,.·· 
:'A~i: 
:~ 
•. 

Hickey, now Vice-President for Academic Affairs. Dr. Dineen was originally chairman of the "sciences" department at St. Mary's, and served as the Biology department head for 15 years after the sciences department split into Biology, Chemistry, and Physics. 
Dr. James McCray comes to the music department from the University of South Florida with considerable experience in music education, specializing in choral direction. He hopes to involve the entire community---including South Bend and surrounding schools---in the SMC music program. McCray received his doctorate from the University of Iowa and also taught at the University of Miami. 
Sr. Jean Kiene, an SMC graduate, succeeds Dr. Paul Messbarger to the chairmanship of the English department. As assistant professor of English last year, Sr. Jean holds a Ph.D from the University of Toronto. 
head the psychology department. McDonagh is a graduate of the University of Oklahoma and holds a Ph.D in clinical psychology. 
Sr. Anna Teresa Bay house from Dunbarton College in Washington, 
D.C. will serve as chairman of the Modern Language department. She was also chairman of that department at Dunbarton, and holds a Ph.D from Georgetown. 
Thirty-one new faculty members In the art department, Ms. Jean Battles <MFA School of the Art Institute of Chicago> and Ms. Sarita Levin (M.S. Art Education, Illinois Institute of Technology( will be new instructors. Dr. Anne Susana (Ph.D Indiana University> has been named an assistant professor of Biology, and Ms. Juanda Bick (M.S. Tulane University), James McGivern <Ph.D in Genetics, Notre Dame), Dr. John O'Malley (Ph.D Creighton University), and Brother Lawrence Stewart (M.S., 

the observer Wednesday, September 6, 1972
10 
King sets SLC date, wants SMC minister 
by Mike Baum 
Student Government officials issued a series of announcements yesterday ranging from the renewed Student Life Council elections to SBP King Kersten's tentative plans for a SMC Minister Plenipotentiary. 
Speaking from R. Calhoun Kersten's office, Dennis Etienne, E (H-Man) Executive Coor­dinator; Edward Ellis, newly noted. Interested students should Clark, will consist of 5 or 6 apply at the Student Government students, Price, the two managers offices. "Women need not be of North and South dining halls, afraid to apply," Etienne added. and the staff dietician. 
Research & Development chief They will meet approximately Jim Clark announced the for­twice a month to discuss complints mation of a "Food Committee" to concerning the Food Services, act as an advisory board to Food suggest menu changes, and Services Director Edward Price. discuss policy decisions. The Committee, according to In addition, Clark said they are 
No problems for first coed classes 
working on reinstating the coex meal ticket arrangement of last year. The service, allowing students from Notre Dame and St. Mary's to eat meals at each other's dining halls will be directed on the Notre Dame side by Sharon McAuliffe and Skip Francisoni. St. Mary's half of the program is being handled by Barb McKiernan. 

Clark also announced tentative plans to set up a bicycle registration program on campus. "When a bike is lost the only way it can be returned is if it has a serial number," Clark explained, "This program will provide a system of serial numbers." The details of the registration program will be announced later. 
appointed head of Academic Af­firs; and James Clark, Com­missioner of Research and Development, explained the up­coming Student Life Council (SLCl elections. 
Consulting a calendar, the three set the date for the SLC elections as Sept. 20. Campaigns will start the preceeding Sunday at noon, and close at 2:00 am, Wednesday the 20th. 
Those who wish to run for the position of Commissioner from one of the six districts should present a petition with fifty signatures to the Student Government offices by next Friday, the 15th. Petition forms may be picked up at the offices next Monday. 
The SLC election districts are: 
1. 
Off-Campus 

2. 
Farley, Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh and St. Ed's 

3. 
Grace and Flanner Towers 

4. 
Stanford, Keenan, Zahm, Holy Cross, St. Joe's and Moreau. 

5. 
Sorin, Walsh, Alumni, Badin and Dillon 

6. 
Fisher, Pangborn, Lyons, Morrissey, and Howard. 


One commissioner is elected from each district, elections are restricted to undergraduates. 
The trio also announced ap­pointments, including Mr. Ellis' and Mr. Clark's and also Michael Marget to the position of treasurer . In addition, Etienne announced, "It's rumored that Kersten <SBPl might appoint a Minister Plenipotentiary to St. Mary's." This move is related to one of Kersten's famous election promises, and, as Etienne ex­plained, is mostly for the sake of the headlines. 
The position of Student Om­budsman is still unfilled, Etienne 
Registration runs smoothly 
Yesterday's registration program went almost as well as Registrar Rick Sullivan hoped it would. 
Sullivan claimed that the only major problem of the day was with the meal validation stickers on some I. D. cards. In many cases the cards were issued without the validation stamps attached. Sullivan noted that the problem was cleared up though. 
The Registrar complained that too many student~ again tried to beat the "rush" and register at 
8:30. "Students have a habit of coming at 8:30. They don't follow the alphabetical list we issue," 
Sullivan noted that the whole system would work much more efficiently if the students followed the published order. Then he questioned if perhaps he was not too naive. 
The 125 freshman girls followed the organized program of the freshman year registration, Sullivan confirmed. Likewise, he noted that the girl transfer 
students  followed  the  regular  
transfer  student  registration  
program.  

The transfer students had counseling on Monday with their advisors or deans and they ob­tained their course approvals today. 
6660 undergraduates were to have registered today according to Sullivan. He noted that of the 6660, 1635 were freshmen, 345 were new students <transfers or non-continuing students), and 4680 were continuing students. Also registering today were 1100 graduate students, 175 M.B.A. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 

NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY's THEATRE announces TRYOUTS for James Goldman's THE LION IN WINTER Wed., Sept. 6 at 7:30 p.m. Thurs•. Sept. 7 at 7:30p.m. Callbacks, Fri., Sept. 8 at 7:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Ooen to all N D-SMC Students 
Welcome Back Students and Faculty
Tired of getting your hair wiped out? Do you have sick, tired, damaged, frizzy sun-bleached or overly dry hair? 
Let us find out for you! Our shop'sHair Analysis Program works in conjunction with RedKen Laboratories. Our trained bar­berstylists study the corrective program designed for you. We cater to all styles but specialize in shaping and 
grooming longer hair. 
3 Barber Stylists to Service You 
Precision Cuts Blunt cuts Layer cuts English shag 
No waiting, all services done by appointment 
Complete line of RK products 

Phone today for a free hair analysis appointment 



Uhe WinJjammer 
HAIR STYLING FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN & BOYS 

1637 Lincoln Way West Ph. 232-6622 
CLOSED MONDAYS 
students, and 475 Law School In all, 8410 students were to have students. registered today. 
ANNOUNCING 
BOAC PROUDLY ANNOUNCES THE APPOINTMENT OF 
CLARK EIDE 
as CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE 248 Alumni Ph. 283 8810
I 
See Clark for any info on individual, group or charter international service. He'll be most happy to help! 
747 DAILY NON STOP: CHICAGO/LONDON 


UNITED 
House of Quality 
We Have Moved 
J mile north of old location 
2 ~ miles north 
of Notre Dame 52 J0 1 US 31 North Featuring 
Jewelrey Stereos Gifts Television Luggage Small Refrigerators 

ednesday, September 6, 1972 the observer 11 
'-Green'lrish looking ttf rebuild 



by Jim Donaldson Sports F.ditor 
Notre Dame will field a green football team in 1972--green not for its Irish nickname but because of its inexperience. 
Only 18 lettermen return from last season's 8-2 club, causing coach Ara Parseghian to com­ment, "This is the biggest rebuilding job I've faced since coming to Notre Dame." 
Parseghian must set to work improving an offense that scored only 225 points last season, the lowest total in his eight years at Notre Dame, and rebuilding a defense riddled by the graduation of eight starters. 
"We lost six people with three years experience and two others with two years experience from our defensive unit," Parseghian said Tuesday. "There's no way we can be as good defensively as last year." 
Tackle Greg Marx and linebackers Jim Musaraca and Jim O'Malley, all seniors, are the lone returnees from the '71 IRISH LEADERS---Coach Ara Parseghian, flanked by co-captains (;rt'g Marx. at left, and John Dampeer,defense. 
seeks to lead the Irish back into the top ten in the national polls.
"Because of our young defense it have an effective offense so thatis mandatory that we improve our we can control the game thatoffensive productivity," Par­way," he said. 
seghian commented. "We hope to The Irish have the makings of anbe able to put more points on the offensive machine, if they can find scoreboard and take the burden off the man to run it. Tackle John 
our defensive unit." 
Dampeer and guard Frank 
"Last year we controlled games Pomarico are the top performers with our defense and kicking on a strong front line, tight end game. This season, we want to Mike Creaney and wide receiver 
Jim Donaldson :::=:=:=:=:=:=====================================================:=:=:::::======================= 
The Irish Eye 

Ara Parseghian has always maintained, with good reason, that where his team is ranked in the pre-season polls isn't important -it's where they are on January 2nd that counts. 
After winning the national title in 1966, Notre Dame was tabbed tops in the country by the wire services prior to the 1967 season, but the Irish slipped to a 7-2-1 record and a final rating of ninth. 
A year ago, Sports Illustrated declared that Notre Dame ought to be first in the land, despite the absence of a proven quarterback. Instead, the Irish finished out of the top ten for the only time in Parseghian's tenure. 
Spurred by the football fever that affects the faithful before the start of the season, speculation about the relative strengths of the major college clubs is rampant. 
lf people took the predictions seriously, there'd be no point in playing the season at all -the national champions, the All-Americans, , and even the Reisman Trophy winner would have been decided 
beforehand. 
Nevertheless, the opinions of the experts provide grid fans with plenty to talk about while awaiting the fall's first kickoff. At Notre Dame. where it's the Irish against the rest of the country and the final polls determine the success or failure of a season, people get pretty concerned about where the club stands in the rankings. 
Depending on who you listen to, Notre Dame has been rated anywhere from a contender for the national title to a "possibility" for a top twenty finish. 
The Football Writers Association of America picks the Irish for tenth. Street and Smith's yearbook, a college football annual that has been on the newstands for years and is usually accurate, rates Notre Dame sixth. Playboy, considered by many to be a tremendous judge of form, though they specialize in cheerleaders rather than athletes, doesn't deem the Irish worthy of notice in its top twenty. 
Obviously, there's a conflict of opinion as to just how good Notre Dame figures to be in '72. 
With eight regulars. including three All-Americans, gone from last vear's defensive unit and the quarterback situation yet to be firmed up, it's difficult to predict how the Irish will fare this fall. If the offense 
fails to put enough points on the board to overcome a weakened defense. Notre Dame could lose three, or even four games. But. if the offense jells and the inexperienced defense matures quickly, it's possible that the Irish could get through the year unbeaten. 
It's inconceivable that an undefeated Notre Dame team could be ranked anywhere but first at the end of a season. 
Possible stumbling blocks in Notre Dame's path to the top of the rankings are arch rivals Purdue, Michigan State and Southern Cal. The Air Force Academy looms as a threat, too. 
Purdue and the Spartans are both well stocked with returning starters and are given outside chances to win the Big Ten title. Notre Dame will meet those clubs on successive weekends early in the season and the team's final ranking will hinge upon whether or not the Irish are ready to meet such a stiff challenge. 
The schedule becomes much easier after the MSU game, with upset­minded Air Force the only real danger. 
Southern Cal's powerful Trojans will be Notre Dame's final op­ponent in 1972, and, as usual, they figure to give the Irish all the action they can handle. 
But that's well into the future and if Notre Dame goes to Los Angeles -unbeaten, can the worst happen ..... again? 
•.~ With three weeks left until the.opener at Northwestern, 
Willie Townsend are talented pass catchers and the Irish can boast of an abundance of good runners. 
John Cieszkowski, Andy Huff, Greg Hill, Darryll Dewan, Ron Goodman, and Gary Diminick should provide a powerful ground game. In addition, soph speedster Eric Penick, a 9.5 sprinter, promises to be the breakaway back the Irish have been looking for since Nick Eddy graduated. 
The starting quarterback job has yet to be decided, however. Junior Cliff Brown, who started the last six games a year ago, and Tom Clements, up from the freshman team, are the top candidates, running ahead of Bill Nyrop and Bill Etter. Pat Steenberge, who saw plenty of action in '71, will be lost for the season with a shoulder injury. 

is yet to be proven. A look at past performances indicatP.:;, 
junior and senior centage favors a top ten finish by the Irish. Tht '"Y' ~~-~~~;~~
here, if the Jcish can win their first three games, <.hen · native won the is within reach. An early seasortloss could, in the long, run indoors as a : ten finish an accomplishment. · captured the IC4A 
"Clements and Brown are head and shoulders above the rest of the candidates right now,'' Parseghian said. "They're both doing well and working hard." 
Royals, Rutgers rob rookies 
Notre Dame's incoming fresh­men have arrived on campus, but two first year athletes who were considered to be among the school's top recruits last spring won't be joining their classmates this week, much to the dismay of the Irish athletic department. 
Jamie Quirk, an 18-year old star quarterback from Whittier, Cal., who signed a letter of intent to attend Notre Dame, decided to forego college in favor of signing a bonus baseball contract with the 



OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Wohlhuter beaten in Olympic 800 meters 
Rick Wohlhuter, a former Notre Dame track team captain and a member of the United States Olympic Team, barely missed qualifying for the finals of the 800 meter run last week in Munich. 
Wohlhuter seemed out of the race entirely after falling on the first turn, but he recovered in time to gain third place on the final turn. 
Thinking he had clinched third, Wolhuter eased up his pace in the final hundred yards, only to be passed at the wire. 
The former Irish star, running for the Chicago Track Club, earned his spot on the U.S. squad in the Olympic trials running a career low of I :45 to finish second behind eventual gold medalist Dave Wottle of Bowling Green. Ken Swenson of Kansas State and Club West was third in the trials, while the first alternate in fourth place was Jim Ryun. 
Wohlhuter, who worked on his master's degree at Illinois State University this past year, com­peted in track at Notre Dame for four years, graduating last spring. Throughout his collegiate career he was hampered by injuries, 
· · most of the outdoor meets 

"I'd like to name a number one quarterback by the Northwestern game," he continued, "but, if no one clearly emerges as the best, we might start the season by using two quarterbacks." 
The Irish will open their 1972 schedule Sept. 23 at Northwestern and take on Big Ten title hopefuls Purdue and Michigan State on the following weekends. Parseghian is well aware of the difficulty--and importance--of his club's early season games. 
"We'll have to grow up quickly," the Irish coach said. "What hap­pens in our first three games will go a long way in determining how well we do this season." 
On paper, it looks like rough early going for the inexperienced Irish but Parseghian isn't about to concede anything. 
"Attitude can make a big dif­ference in a team," he remarked. "A team with good morale, good leadership and determination can overcome inexperience. Those things are intangibles but they become very meaningful on the field. I believe that responsibility makes new stars." 
Notre Dame finished out of the top ten last year for the first time in Parseghian's tenure. If the Irish are to climb back to the top of the polls, it'll depend on whether or not those "new stars" can be found. 
Kansas City Royals of the American League, while basketball standout Phil Sellers, reportedly heading for N.D., changed his mind and has enrolled at Rutgers University in New Brunswick, N.J. 
Quirk's talents at shortstop were rated highly enough by the Royals to induce that club to dole out a $70,000 bonus in order to obtain his signature, the highest bonus ever paid by that club. 
Sellers averaged over 30 points and 20 rebounds a game while attending Thomas Jefferson High School in Brooklyn, N.Y. The 6'5 forward was rated one of the best high school basketball players in the country and was the object of a heated recruiting battle. He had been set to attend Notre Dame last May but an­nounced his decision to go to Rutgers June 7th. 
Four Irish stars touted as possible All Americans 
Four Notre Dame football 
players, including both co-cap­
tains, have been touted as possible 
All-Americans by various media 
throughout the nation in their 
annual preseason selections. 
Senior co-captains Greg Marx 
and John Dampeer, senior tight 
end Mike Creaney and junior 
guard Fran Pomarico have all 
been tabbed as players worthy of 
All-American consideration. 
Marx, a defensive tackle and the 
lone returnee from last season's 
outstandingfrontfour, is a two-time 
letterman from Redford 
Michigan. The 6-5, 245-pounder 
is a deadlv tackler and 
aggressive pass rusher. 
Dam peer. 6-2, 235, has also 
lettered twice for the Irish. The 
Kermit, Texas, native has logged 
over 300 minutes of action the past 
two seasons and is an outstanding 
blocker. 
For the third straight year, 
Notre Dame's starting tight end 
will be Mike Creaney, 6-4, 225, 
from Towson, Md. He has caught 
26 passes for 569 yards in twc 
seasons for the Irish. 
The only underclassman whc 
figures to receive All-America!l 
mention is guard Frank 
Pomarico, 6-1, 240. A Howard 
Beach, N.Y.,native who attendee 
the same high schol as former two· 
time Irish All-American guarc 
Larry DiNardo, Pomarico ha! 
hopes of duplicating DiNardo'! 
collegiate success. 

T C 
., . 


(continued from page 9) 
Universitv) has been named ant assistant ·professor, and Ms. Faith Adams (M.A. University oft Washington) will be an instructor 
and costumer. Nt-w Majors 
Concerning new majors, Dr. llickev revealed that four had been instituted three of which are
~ 
immediatl'ly available to students. Psychology and political[ science. formerly joint programs with Notre Dame, are now building
~ 
independent curriculums on this campus. Both will be in­terdisciplinary, utilizing courses from sociology and other depart­ments to supplement the major. 
While only an individual language major had been offered previously at St. Mary's, a major in modern languages is now available. Business administration is not yet open to students as a major filed as a curriculum has not yet been finalized. However, two professors have been hired by the department and some business 

Wednesday, September 6, 1972
the observer
12 
New faces at St. Mary's 
Bloodbath ends athletic tragedy 
(continued from page 1) 
The torment of the entire event was heightened by confusion created in the public mind by contradictory reports from German and olympic officials alter the gunfire erupted at the airport. 
Merk, in a press conference at 3 o'ciO<·k this morning said: 
"In this situation our task and goal to free the hostages was made more difficult by the lack of agreement from Israel to free prisonersor to get guarantees from the Arabs not to take action against the hostages." 
He said the federal minister of the interior, Hans Dietrich Gen­scher had offered to substitute himself and other German officials for the Israeli hostages. This, and money. was rejected by the Arabs. 
The Arabs, armed with Russian­
'' made Kalashnikov automatic rifles. entered the lightly guarded olympic compound about 4 a.m. after climbing the fence, they made their way to the three story building housing 26 Israelis and began their raid shortly before 5 
a.m .. according to eyewitnesses. 
The first to die apparently was Moshl' Weinberg, 33, a weight­lifting coach. The second man was identified as Yossef Romano, 31, a weightlifter. 
Israeli sources said Romano had held the entrance door to the three Israeli apartments as he Arabs courses will be taught this 
semester in the economics­busine~:s department.
Dr. Hickey added that a "special l'ducation endorsement" may now be obtained by education majors. This will be made possible in cooperation with indiana 
University; all the courses, however, will be taught on the St. Mary's campus. 
Acadl'mic Affairs Area 
The new "academic affairs 
area" is comprised of three of­
fice~: the vice president for 
academic affairs, the assistant to 
the vice president, and the dean of 
freshmen. This structure, Dr. 
Hickey explained, can better serve 
students by eliminating the 
overburdened academic dean's 
office and redistributing its duties. 
The vice president for academic 
affairs, Dr. Hickey, will be directly 
responsible for department 
chairmen, maintenance of 
aca~emic standards, and 
curriculum changes. The assistant 
to the vice president, Ms. Gail Mandell, will be an "academic ombudsman" of sorts, providing academic counseling and in· terp_ret~t_ion of academic policies fo~ mdividual students. This post, said Dr. Henry, was created to fill the students' need for a full-time academic counselor. 
Ms. Mandell plans to initiate evening office hours since most students are busy with classes during the day. While most juniors and seni~rs will seek counseling from their department chairmen or advisors, Dr. Hickey em­phasized the importance of Ms. Mandell's office to sophomores who may be undecided about a major program, and to all students who may have questions concerning requirements schedule difficulties, or colleg~ academic policies. 
Commenting on the new academic affairs area, Dr. Ed­ward Henry said, "It's time "administration row" pursued an open door policy, making itself a"vailable to students and a place where they are not afraid to come for help when they need it." 

tried to break in and called to another Israeli: "Run for your life." A volley of bullets then tore through the door, hitting Romano and wounding him fatally. 
An Israeli who managed to get out said he was one of 11 who escaped. One of them, Gud Psabar, dashed away in a hail of bullets as the Arabs were trying to herd his teammates together. 
The Arabs, four or five in number. placed guards on all floors of the building while their leader. a short man in a dirty shirt with dark glasses and a pock­marked face, stood at the entrance to negotiate on their demands for the release of 250 Arab terrorists held in Israel. 
Throughout the afternoon the West. German policemen poured into the area, more than two dozen of them putting on track suits over armored vests and hiding their handguns underneath. Three armored cars were driven into the courtyard below the dormitory area shortly after noon. 
According to a police source, the Arabs said they would shoot anybody in the vicinity who did not wear a track suit. They also demanded and received a small radio to keep in touch with the world outside. 
The terrorists issued ultimatums throughout the day, saying they would shoot their hostages by noon. and then postponed this till 1 o'clock, to 3 o'clock and to 5 o'clock 
from Chicago 
THE SIEGEL SCHWALL BLUES BAND 
in concert 
l , 
I ~ 
Admission: $3.50 (advance). $4.00 (at the door) All seats Reserved Advance Tickets available at Morris Civic Box Office 
Mail orders accepted . enclose self addressed 
stamped envelope and check or money order 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
211 N. Michigan Ave. 
.. 
without acting on their threat. 
In mirlmorning the retiring president of the Olympic games, Avery Brundage, said the Munich program would continue. But following an afternoon meeting the international olympic committee decided to postpone the games scheduled for this evening and tomorrow out of respect to the dead Israelis. 
Repeated efforts to gain release of the hostages were rejected by the Arabs. 
The West German government offered an unlimited ransom sum and this was turned down. So was an offer to substitute hostages. 
CLRSSIFII;D ADS 
RECYCLED BOOKS SAVE TREES AND YOUR MONEY Pandora has used books for: Am St 381; Art 151; Col Sem 321; Educ 503; Engl 109, 180, 185, 311, 320, 322, 345, 351, 381, 383, 386, 404, 445, 460, 482m, 494, 620, 674n, 681; G P 281. 381, 481; Govt 342, 418; Hist 
111, 227,311, 351m. 365,367, 44lm, 511; Cl as Lang 400, 464; Mod Lang 493; Phil 101. 201. 254, 255b, 275, 345; Soc 227; Theo 106, 107, 200, 208,217, 240, 243; and many others 
20,000 books in stock, three day special order service. Buy, sell. trade. Pandora's Books 5 blocks south of campus on Notre Dame Avenue Open noon to midnight 
Time Lite Sports Illustrated at the lowest Student rates. 283-8323! 
Student to manage small business. No selling. Short hours. $300-$600 per month. Write t N F, Box 508, Boulder, COLO 80302. Include a few personal details. 

Words lda 2da 3da 4da 5da 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 
Need 2 general admission tickets for Purdue. Call 4505. 
Any club or organization wishing to participate in Activities Night, to be held 
Wednesday, September 13, 

in La Fortune Student Center 
should contact the Student Activities Office ~ 7308) or New Student Orientation ~ 3378) by September 9. 

SPECIAL SCHOLARSHIP OFFER. 
CLASS OF '75 ONLY. 
Ir---.-----------,
Scholarship Includes: 2-year tuition... free! $100 monthly. Book allowance, lab fees, etc. I 
I How to qualify: I 
Just send in the coupon, or t~lk to the Professor of
I I
Aerospace Studies on your campus. (If you're class I of 76, next year is your year.) I 
U.S. Air Force Recruiting Service
I I 
Directorate of Advertising (RSAV) Randolph Air Force Base
I I 
Texas 78148 
Please send me more information on your 2-year scholarship
I I 
program. 
Birth Dote 
I I Name I I
_Sex
Address 
Zip____
City _County State
I I 
Present College Future College
I Soc. Sec.#. ___ -------I 
I FIND YOURSELF A SCHOLARSHIP I
L IN AIR FORCE ROTC. 2-NR~ 




