On The Inside 
Ravi Shankar ... page 5 
Text of Kersten speech .•. page 7 



servif"''" the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 14 Wednesday, September 27, 1972 

Kersten seeks provost to fill post 
by Don Ruane 
Executive Editor 
To the strains of "Pomp and Circumstance" R. Calhoun Kersten, student body president, announced his decision not to resign the office. The statement was broadcast livey by WSND-AM at 11:15 last night. 
Instead. Kersten, created an "ad hoc search com­mittee" to fill the position of Student Body Provost. Th<' two member committee consists of Dennis Etienne and Kersten. 
Th<' SBP cited as his reason for not resigning: "The thought of the poobahs on The Observer having control of both the SLC and the office of the Student Body President might be unsettling enough to bring on a r<'lapse in the problem which I have sosuccessfully overcome. which gives me pause." 
!lad Kersten resigned, the student members of the Student Life Council would have been empowered to select his replacement under the new constitution. The n<'w consstitution, however, has not been formally approved. 
Kersten argued that if he resigned he would be faced "with the probability that John Abowed will highly recommend his brother Anthony out of his recently acquired SLC seat and into the presidency. 
"I must admit that Anthony, or in fact any one of the self-recommended Observer candidates on the SLC, has the lackluster character which makes him the logical choise for this demeaning office." 
Kersten considered fathering an heir, but found his answer after awakening from a dream and gazing down at H-man <Etienne) who was "dutifully" sleeping at his feet. 
RFECALLING THE "indelicate relationship" 

Kersten knocks candidates on SLC 

existing between and the Provost's office, Kersten said he realized he was to create an office of the Provost "to handle all internal affairs, external affairs-yea, verily­the whole whole confused mess." 
;\t this point Kersten announced the creation of the 
Olf•.c~ of Student Provost which "shall be filled by 
dec•swn of the ad hoc s~arch committee, consisting of 
H-man and myself, which has been expressly formed 
for this purpose." 
The .student Provost will receive "carte blanche 
au~hority to assume the powers invested in me by the 
Pnme. Mover's Mover," according to Kersten. All 
executive decresses will be made from the office while 
~erst.en ,will concern himself with "such hempty 
fundt1?n a~ presen~ing the flag at football games, 
escortmg Miss Amenca on campus and meeting with 
the Board of Trustees. 
~ersten began his address by admitting his desire to resign the SBP to seek "higher, more approrpiatehonors" 
"There is indeed a deeper reason which made me desire to quite for I am now forced to admit that bet­ween July. ~8, 1952 and December of 1958, I was subject to a repetitive, compulsive bedwetting problem which forced me on three occasions to purchase a new mattress. And though Iwas able to overcome this problem with the help of a team of psychiatrists using shock-therapy-at the age of six-ti was nevertheless responsible for my lack of close friends in this criticai period of childhood-a factor which directly induuced me to seek the office of Student Body President." 
After the election he considered this no more than a mere physical affliction, "much as most of you look upon the frilled cube steak in the dining hall " Kersten 
said. ' 
Eventually he realized the problem was "a sign from the Fther that Iwas no longer pure and was not fit to continue to reign as Prime Mover." 
Resolved to accept the Father's will; and backed by th.e April first resignation of Ed Gray, spokesman for VIce President retroactive uncandidate the Cat Kersten planned to resign after the SLC elections. ' 
Burtchaell speaks on N.D. Future 

Burtchaell: Not naming next women's dorm. 
Rev. James T. Burtchaell, S.C.S., said last night that 
the announcement on the next women's dorm would 
not be made until shortly befpre room picks next 
spring.
"It wouldn't help anyone to know," commented Fr. Burtchaell. Fr. Burtchaell also commented on Notre Dame-St. Mary's relations, the financial state of the uni\'ersity and the future of the Fieldhouse. ' 
see page 6 
Relations with SMC 

Fr. Burtchaell said that no merger talks with Saint Mary's are currently under way,. and that SMC does not appear to be leaning toward any such unification. 
Saint Mary's students took 10,000 hours at Notre Dame classes through the Co-Eschange Program during the 1971-72 academic year. This amounted to more than one-third of the total SMC credit hours and a million-dollar Notre Dame contribution to SMC in teaching load, the Provost reported. 
Finances 

Concerning University finances, Burtchaell said that Notre Dame has functioned ol)ly two years in the red, 1969 and 1970. Last year's profit at this point has been bettered, and taht the budget for the next three years is favorably projected. Deficit years, he said, should be a thing of the past. 
Death Knell 

The fate of the Fieldhouse was also a topic of discussion. 
Fr. Burtchaell cited the dilapitated condition of the building and the infeasability of renovation. He was r~ther emphatic in his view of the Fieldhouse, "It will either be torn down or it will self-destruct." 
The meeting concluded with questions on Student 
Government. Fr. Burtchaell believes the current 
mood of apathy is norma. He added with some ad­
mitted facetiousness, "A little apathy toward the 
Student Government is healthy." 
When questioned on his attitude toward King Kersten and his cohorts, Fr. Burtchaell said merely: "Robert is a very good swimmer." 

LaFortune 
proposal appraised 

the observer ·Wednesday, September 27, 1972 
Washington --The Senate reversed itself and rejected, by a 45 -42 vote, an end-the-war amendment that it had adopted three months ago. The vote marked the final collapse of the anti-war movemnt in the Senate and left the administration firmly in command of the war issue in Congress. The Senate went on to approve, by a 46-41 vote, the Foreign Aid Authorization Bill. 
warld 
Washington --Henry A. Kissinger met privately in Paris with North 'Vietnamese representatives, and the White House announced that the talks would be extended into a second day. Ronald L. Ziegler, the White House Press Secretary, declined "to say whether the extension 
of the private talks mean that progress is being made toward a set­

briefs 
tlement of the Vietnam War. 
Washington --The House Agriculture Committee approved a bill that would partially compensate farmers in Texas, Oklahoma and Kansas who sold their early wheat at low prices because they were unaware of the magnitude of Soviet wheat purchases that were to send prices soaring. The vote on the bill, sponsored by Graham Purcell, a Texas Democrat, was 23 to 10. 
<c> 1972 New York Times 
Washington -Presidents of nine building and construction unions representing over 1.7 million workers endorsed President Nixon for re-election, stating that they found "the positions and policies of the candidate of the democratic party wholly unacceptable." Eight: other construction Union Presidents declined to join in the endorsement although invited to do so. 
an campus taday 
1:30-4: 30--openhouse, placement bureau, 222 administration building. 
2:00-·lecture, ravi shankar, sitarist, o'laughlin auditorium, SMC. 
3:30-7:00--bike registration, first floor of Iafortune student center. 
7: 
00--meeting, amateur radio club, at clubhouse behind holy cross hall. 

7: 
30--lecture, emil t. hofman, the rise and fall of the big bands, howard hall chapel. 


8:00--concert, ravi shankar, o'laughlin auditorium, SMC. 




Chess registration con't. 
Registration continues today for Observer office on third floor of Dame and St. Mary's. There is a the first Observer chess tour­LaFortune Student Center. $1.00 registration fee that enables nament. All registration is con­The tournament is open to all contestants to play for the cash ducted at the news desk in the students and faculty of Notre prize and trophy awarded to the 

N  s  
0 T R E  w :I: 1-ND  A I N T  
D  SMC  M A  
A M  THEATRE  R Y'  
E  s  
SEASON 1972  

(An activity of the Cooperative Department of Speech and drama of the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College) 
Five Plays 
THE LION IN WINTER by James Goldman Oct. 6, 7,12,13,14at8:30pm 0'Laughlin Auditorium 
Season Subscriptions 
SUMMER AND SMOKE by Tennessee Williams Nov. 10, 11, 16, 17, 18at8:30pm Washington Hall 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATE 
AFTER THE RAIN by John Bowen Feb. 16, 17, 22, 23;24at8:30pm Washington Hall 
FIVE PLAYS $6.50 

THE MAGIC FLUTE by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (in association with SMC Music Dept.) April6, 7, 12, 13, 14 at 8:30pm O'Laughlln Auditorium 
$2.00 OFF REGULAR PRICE 

YOU'RE A GOOD MAN, CHARLIE BROWN by Clark Gesner April 26, 27, 28. 29 
May 3, 4, 5, 6 at 8:30pm April 28 and May 5 at 2:30 pm Little Theatre, Moreau Hall 

:J ...............................................1.2!:5t~r..~.tftn~)...........................................! 
Class__Name 

Address 
City________;:,tate_____ Zip___ 
Please send _____student subscriptions at $6.50 
Totals-~--... Indicate-date choice for ~ach play 
1st Fri. 1st Sat. 2nd Thu. 2ild Fri. 2nd Sat. 
(Please choose alternate date Charlie Brown) f Enclose check -for total ~amount due and a stamped-Mall to: ~addressed envelope for return ND·SMC .Theatre, Notre:. :ot the tickets. Dame, lnd1ana 46556 • 
. • ........................................ -··· -············----·-= .................. 
Observer Chess Tournament
NaiDe______________________ _ 
Address___________________ Phone_____________________ 
Playing for prizee;___yes no USFC MeiDber___yes-DO 
Rating________________ 
October 2-8 



A little 
first place winner. The fee can be waived by those not interested in competing for the prize money. 
First round matches begin on October 2 at 7:00 and continue through Sunday night October 8. The tournament will be an eight round Swiss match with rounds every night Monday through Saturday. Two final rounds will be played Sunday. 
The first round pairings will be published in the Observer Monday afternoon. Boards and sets are being provided by the chess club, through contestants are asked to bring their own in case a scarcity develops. 
The tournament is co-sponsored 
by the Observer and the Chess 
Club Tournaments directors are 
members of the Chess Club. 

---.... 
Wednesday, September 27, 1972 the observer 
3 


A-L Council makes appointments 
by Jim Early Obst'rver Staff Reporter 

The Arts and Letters College Student Advisory Council made its final decision on the appointment of four students to fill seats on the College Council last Thursday. 
The forty-five member College Council consists of deans of the college, department chairmen, elected faculty members, and five student representatives. It meets periodically to discuss new programs proposed for the coolege or to reevaluate old programs and matters of academics. 
Originally, the Advisory Council interviewed sixteen students. These students had submitted statements expressing their personal interest in the College Council. Four students and Prof. Walter Nicgerski, faculty College Council member, interviewed the eight finalists, reducing their number to six. The entire Ad­visory Council chose the four appointees, who are Dan Kogov­sek, Michael Wahoske, Rose Lennon and Walter Spek. 
Neil Rosini, president of the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council, occupies -the fifth seat on the College Council, ex officio. Rosini said the Council looked for "creative, energetic people who had a firm idea of the meaning and significance of a liberal education for Notre Dame students and could convey that idea to others." 
Dial 1638 lor help 

Neil Rosini,-president of the Arts and Letters Advisory Council 
Today the Council meets to examine the report of the com­mittee that studied the Program on Non-Violence. It will also discuss the 1-2-1 division of the 4-year Bachelor of Arts program, which is a reshuffling of the Arts and Letters student program. 
According to this program, a student, after completing his freshman year, would spend his sophomore and junior years within a rna jor, as is presently practiced, or in one of a selection of fields of concentration. The latter would place emphasis on a "thematic," pursued and developed through a consolation of courses offered by the different departments. Some examples for such cross­disciplined thematics are American Civilization, Science, 
Technology and Society, and Concepts and Problems in In­ternational Community. The student's senior year would be reserved for integration, further concentration, or a creative project. 
Apart from the College Council, the Arts and Letters Student Ad­visory Council meets with the dean periodically and does research in certain areas of the college procedure. Some proposals which have been brought up by the members of this council are ways of improving sophomore coun­seling, means of increasing student-faculty relations, and examining the role of requirements within the college. The council has conducted an extensive study of other schools which employ more liberal grading procedures such as pass-fail. 




Ombudsman has answers 
Rosini noted, "It is our role to try to contribute to acadmeic ex­cellence in the college," and "any student who has any ideas its more than welcome to contact either me or any other member of the Ad­visory Council." 
The members of the Council: Neil Rosini, John Abowd, Fred Antczac, Michael Davis, Jim Gressner, Peter Homorer, Larry Johnston, Dan Kogovsek, Rose Lennon, Bill Matthews, Dan O'Donnell, iill_y Randles, Mike Sherrod. ~r ~k. Michael Wehoske and Chris White. 
by Marty Miller organization but wants more in­
Observer Staff Reporter formation about it, he can simply 
call the Ombudsman for 

Do you have a problem and don't assistance. "We are a human know where to turn? Dial7638 and directory," says freshman Om­you will be connected with the budsman Jim Spurling. office of the Ombudsman, whose Another important job of the mission .is to act immediately on Ombudsman is to protect the vour specific problem. students from outside soliciting. 
"Our job is to act primarily as McLean cited the example of an an information service," says encyclopedia distributor that sophmore Bill McLean, director of recruited summer employees from the Ombudsman service "We will the University last spring without answer your questions or direct permission, to sell the books in the you to the person who can." back hills of Tennessee. No living 
A recent example of this service expenses were to be provided. involved a girl who bought the Communication between the package deal tickets to the Administfation and students is Michigan State game and wished also facilitated by the Om­to sell them. But where and how budsman. Brian McGingy, 
could she do this? Senior Om-sophomore Ombudsman relates budsman. John McLaughlin the story of a student calling in and supplied the information she complaining of a bad deal from needed and her problem . was Student Accounts. The lines of solved. communication were immediately 
The Ombudsman also assist untangled by the Ombudsman and students in their dealings with the problem was settled. other student organizations. Where There are presently 17 active "activities night" ended, the Ombudsmen and 4 alternates, and Ombudsman take over. If a they are still recruiting. "The student is interested in joining an organization was a little top heavy 

Directory: 3 weeks away 
The University Directory should addresses of students, plus a be ready for distribution in about calendar of the school year, a three weeks according to Bob faculty listing, and maps of the ND Alden of the Student Union Ser­and SMC campuses. vices Commission. Anyone wishing to add in­
Besides listing the names of formation to the directory should students, their telephone numbers contact Alden at 7757. Until the and local addresses, the directory directory comes out, the number to also gives the college and home eall for directory . assistance is 
3222. 
ONCE A YEAR 

BICYCLE SALE 
Savings up to 15% full display $42-$410
3 SPEED --5 SPEED 10 SPEED .. TANDEM 
Bikes available for immediate delivery 

B1 S:!~~~N~AYS.~~TMER 
Closed Sat. Sept. 9 and Mon. Sept. 18 
Phone 287-1623 Dally 9:30 'Iii 5:30 1437 Portage Ave. 
last year with the majority being juniors and seniors. There was no built in mechanism to keep the office going," says direcotor McLean. "This year we have enlisted a large number of fresh­men and sophomores," he added. 
The Ombudsmen are planning a car co-op this year. The idea of the co-op is that students who are driving to Buffalo for example will be directed to a student who needs a ride to Buffalo. . . This new system will be initiated within a week. 
The office of the Ombudsman is open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. Dial 7638 if you have a problem ... an Om­budsman will help. 

It sure would be great to have all the time you need for all the things you like to do. And If your reading work load is keeping you from some of the finer things, here's an impor­tant suggestion. Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics will show you how to read 3 to 10 times faster with equal or better com­prehension. Once you've mastered Evelyn Wood's method, your reading and studying time will be drastically reduced. You'll know some important secrets of test-taking and be able to keep up better with your studies -as well as those social activities you're missing now. Time -that's what it's all about. Do something about it now. 
ATTEND A FREE SPEED READING LESSON INCREASE YOUR READING SPEED 50 TO 100% ON THE SPOT 
ODAY~nd TOMMORRO a~ 6 and 8 pm 
Cente~)For Continuing Education Nptre Dame Avenue 
\ 

m\Evelyn Wood Reading ~ami~ Institute 
"50 -100\% on the spot"
\ 
1 
1 
1 
~ 






THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Editor-in-chiefNews: 283-1715 EditoriaI: 283-8661 Don RuaneBusiness: 283-7471 Executive Editor Dan Thornton Business Manager 
Joe Butler Advertising Manager 

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Wednesday, September 27, 1972 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Provost endorsement 
Rumor has it that the middle name of Rev. Observer Associate Editor Edward 
T. Ellis, C.S.C. is Tungstead. We think this more than qualifies him for the position of "Student Provost" in the Court of the Bubble Gum King. 
At his birthday party at Nickie's Monday night, E. Tungstead was surrounded by tongues afire, that could be quenched only by draughts of Stroh's, the nectar of the Gods. 
It is rumored further that the venerable cleric forsook his home last summer to wander for forty days and forty nights in the great Philadelphia desert, where he 

was sanctified and ate ice cream. Moreover, while listening to the music of the spheres, it has been revealed to Tungstead (we hear), that the Bowel Mover is but a fifth-rate Anti-Christ, who ought to defecate or get off the pot. When confronted with these rumors, Ellis has refused to confirm or deny, 
saying,"It  wouldn't  help  anyone  to  
know."  
Ultimately, however,  we  propose  the  

name of E. Tungstead Ellis, C.S.C. for the office of Student Provost. 
Allah 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllijl 
fram l:he edil:ar!s desk: 


A reply 
This is not an editorial; it is a personal statement. 
It's hard not to be offended by Bob Kersten's remakrs last night. It's no secret that there's no love lost between the two of us anyway. Still, it is not the charge of political manipulation that is particularly annoying; rather, it is the pn'vailing assumption of dishonesty he unjustly associates with working for The Observer or student government (in· anything other than a comic capacity). I shart.' with many of the staff members and especially with those people who sat on the Editorial Board last Monday (none of whom were running for the SLC) a deep resentment of the charge that they would deliberately permit themselves to be railroaded into rubber stamping my opinion. I'm told that many of my prrctecessors contended that it was "their divine right" to manipulate student opinion. In the long run that is a coun­terproductitive goal--it runs against every legitimate element of a university environment And it always backfired. 

The first irony is that I could simultaneously incur the wrath of both my immediately predecessor and Ker­sten for mutually exclusive reasons. How it is possible to abandon the Mencken model of manipulative journalism and still deliberately deceive the student body is beyond me. 
Nonetheless, I'm willing to stand on my record which is more than Kersten ought to attempt. 
The second irony is that over a quarter of the way into its term the Kersten ad­ministration finally is getting serious because The Observer, no less, has forced its hand. That's a pretty unusual way to blame us for making him straighten out his office then the press can't be all bad. After all, there are $80,000 of student money entrusted to the SBP. Few people would take that trust as lightly as Kersten. 
John Abowd 


Dan'tRskMe 
Questions 

larry weaver 

Well, here I am on the editorial page of the Observer, and the question is: what am I doing here? To tell the truth, I don't know. How well I remember those halycon days of my du Lacian youth when I used to gad about the Scholastic office with a noteworthy ( I thought ) page or two in hand. Finally, some assistant editor in charge of tact took me aside for a word on the joys of journalism. "We have plenty of writers here, Weaver," he said. "Why not try the Observer?" 
And so, here I am. The spread on the editorial page is, I think, only to increase my public embarassment. Really, I feel uneasy amongst the lions of the fourth estate you usually persue on these pages. It's like the reaction I have when I go to the Rock. To stand and watch those people work out, and realize that you wouldn't press over thirty pounds on a dare, is not an ego building experience. I normally spend my time there taking lots of deep breaths. Then I look for an exit. 
You see, I can't write like the Observer people you're used to. To begin with, I have a pathological fear of the semicolon (; ). Now, there's not an essayist in the world who doesn't sprinkle semicolons through his prose with the same deft frequence of a pope dispensing blessings. As for me, I've never trusted the semicolon. For years, I thought it was a typographical error--an exclamation point that didn't make it, or something. Now that I know what it is, I trust it even less. In the wrong hands, a semicolon can make one sentence last three and a half paragraphs. 
That's another thing about me, I cannot write lengthy sentences with a straight face. I have a tendency to forget what I wrote at the beginning of a sentence before I finish it. (In the newspaper biz, we call this bad news.) Compared to the long and flowing beard.like sentences my compatriots write, my words must seem like itchy, stubbly two-day growths. 
Finally, while we're on the subject of my shortcomings, (who started this anyway?>, one last thing. Unlike some writers you'll find on these hallowed pages, I will not provide you with any answers. To be quite frank, I don't know any. I'm still trying to figure out why my moustache always decides to shed when I'm kissing someone. (And this makes me a hot date around coed circles as well you can imagine. <>f course, it could be worse. A girl I went with for three months finally dumped me because she thought I never wiped the cocoa off my mouth. I couldn't bring myself to tell her it was a moustache I'd been working on since I was sixteen.) 
Anyway, back to the ultimate question. What am I doing here? What I really want to do is ask questions--sometimes embarassing questions. Now hold on. I'm not trying to intimidate you. God forbid that anyone should feel like I do in the Rock. Rather, I want you to react to what these sentences are: stubbly, itchy two-day growths of words. If my phraseology can make you a bit uncomfortable, make ~·ou scratch a little until you want to go to the mirror and see what's the matter with you, it will have served its purpose. 
Isn't that nice? We're both in this together, embarassed and un­comfortable. Life is truly amazing. In six short paragraphs, I've dragged you dow~ to my level. Well. partner. you should have known when you signed on that it wasn't gonna be all peaches and pillows. 
You see. people are usually too satisfied with answers to go through the trouble of asking questions. As a precocious Jaw student would say. take a case in point. When our dear alumni swarm over the campus this Saturday, they will undoubtedly see that most fabled of all spec;t:>s. the Notre Dame drunk. "Heavens, Martha!" will say Whitney <'36) in a scandalous voice, "That lad is drunk." Then friend Whitney< ':l6l will make his way to grotto, game, and home. He has his ;msw(•r: Notre Dame students are drunks. 
llnfortunately. Whitney ('36) doesn't have his question yet. WHY was that lad drunk? Why do some people feel it necessary to get hhlstPd'' Now. I'm not talking about the happy-type party drunk--I'll he doing that myself this week-end. I mean that one guy in fifty who will turn to the bottle in loneliness and desperation. I'm talking about that sickening. dead-end kind of drinking we've all seen too often here at Notre Dame to completely brush off with simple answers. It's time \\'P started asking questions. Otherwise, we'll all be Whitney's <'73). 
·Well. that's today's itch. Like I said, it's up to you to scratch. Of eourse. I suffer no delusions concerning what we can accomplish here together. I am well aware that these hastily thought-out words will become splattered with Batter-Dipt Cod, and hidden under Spumoni­On-A-Bun. This is the way it should be. Life is too short to spend poring over ponderous newspaper columns. (I alone hold the ad­vantage here. I can clip these things out and send them home to mom. I'd like to see you try that...On second thought, if you'd like to, I'll give out my mother's adress on request.) So, don't brood over these questions, just scratch. And if you come up with some real answers, you can take over for me. Like I said, I don't belong here in the first place. 
I think I'll head over to the Scholastic office ... 1111111111 II II II III1111 III II II11111111 III11111111111 II II II II IllII1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

the issue staff: 

Nite Editor: Jack Frischkorn 
Ass't Nite Editor: Albert D'Antonio 
Charm: Kathy Schwille 
Headliner: Dandy Don Day Editor: Mark Luppino 
Typists: Dianne Chermside, Dave Rust, Mary Romer, the Halle 
Nite Controller: John Flannigan 
--~----~-----------­
Wednesday, September 27, 1972 the observer 
5 


mario gallagher 

rav1• shankar • • • on 
You can lose Ravi Shankar in6 crowd. I did. When I first walked into Stapleton­Lounge yesterday, I couldn't find him. 
Perhaps I didn't recognize him without his omnipresent sitar, for no one ever pictures Ravi Shankar without his sitar,, the in­strument which he made famous and vice versa in the Western world. 
Guru-Shishya Parampara is the traditional system whereby the Guru (master, teacher) accepts a Shishya (disciple, student) to live and work and learn at his home or Ashram (rural retreat). As the Shishya progresses, the Guru passes on more and more of all that he knows. durinfJ a period of austere discipline involving as much as 18 hours of practice per day for many years. 
Ravi Shankar has had approximately 


fourteen years of formal music instruction of the most intense sort. Indian music is a highly personal mode of both com­munication and art, and remains an oral tradition rather than a written one. Written notation is virtually unknown in the East; consequently the student's facilities of memorization and concentration are stretched to their limits. The student and teacher share such an intimate and protracted relationship that in Shankar's own words, "When a student takes a Guru, the instruction revolves a total surren­dering." One may conclude from this that Indian musicians are not likely to take their craft lightly or dabble in it as so many fly­by-night Western musicians do. For them music is a vocations to which they dedicate their entire lives. 
"One begins with the fundamentals, just as one does in Western music... with chords. with scales. , . but the Indian disciplines are gently integrated as well. .. the musician is finally ready for im­provisation after seven years, and even then five more years are required to perfect the skill. .." 
1'1 all. Shankar feels that ten to fifteen years are requiredin the molding of a "good" (but not "excellent" or even exceptional"! l musician. Apparently Shankar learned his lessons well, if his reputation is any testimony. 
Indian music Is simpler than its Western counterpart in counterpoint and harmony, but far more complex in structure. It relies on two integral elements, the Raga and the Tala, as its bases, and from these the artist is free to improvise. A Raga is difficult to explain to a Western listener, because it is neither a scale nor a mode. It is, however, a scientific, precise, subtle, and aesthetic melodic form with its own peculiar ascending and descending movement which consists of either a full acta ve. or a series of six of five notes. It is the subtle difference in the order of notes, and omission of a jarring or dissonant note, and emphasis on a particuar note, or the slide from one note to another and the use 
of microtones along with other subleties that 
demarcate one Raga from the other. There are seventy-two "Melas," or parent scales, on which Ragas are based. 
"Tala" is the second important factor in Indian music. These are te rhythmic cycles ranging from three to one hundred eight beats. (E.g. a bar of ten beats may be divided as 2-3-2-3 or 3-3-4 or 3-4-3.) Within the framework of the fixed beats the drummer playing them can improvise to the same extent as the main artist. 
Shankar believe that to fully appreciate the intracacies of Eastern music, an ex­tremely intellectual approach is necessary. As an example, he cites his most famous 




music, youth, and india 
pupil, George Harrison. Harrison, he said, was a "good student," but he didn't get the necessary training because he didn't have the time to devote to it. A combination of deep appreciation, time, talent, training, and effort are all required to become a skilled practicioner of the sitar, and of the Indian music in general. 
Wi1lie he ''loves" Western c-lassica-l music, Shankar feels that Western music has had no influence whatsoever on him, since his music is so deeply rooted in Indian culture and character of its own. Its frameworks are such that Western Music could not penetrate it without violating its basic principles. 
But Shankar will readily admit that his music has been borrowed freely by the West, and in some cases, rather rudely. 
"Advertisements have brought the sitar to a low level--they show a pot party and play sitar music in the background. It is not only commercial, it is a misrepresen­tation." 
It is this misrepresentaion wiich Shankar hopes to rectify in his concerts and tours. He aims to break the common association of drugs with Indian music, religion, philosophy, culture. Shankar feels that several modern writers, mainly American, have done great damage to India and her heritage by creating this wrong image. He is disappointed by the commercialization of that which is so sacred to his people. 
Those who have borrowed Indian modes 
for more aesthetic purposes--notably "Dave 
Brubeck. John Handy, Don Ellis, Buddy 
Rich, and other jazz artists." according to 
Shankar. have sometimes created an in­
teresting potpourri by juxtaposing the 
Eastern and Western influences. 
"But there is definitley a border line 
lwtween 'gimmicks' and serious work." 
declared Shankar who should be an 
expert. 

Shankar believes that the recent Western 
attraction to Eastern culture has been 
"mostly a fad and superficial interest," but 
he quickly adds that it "hasn't harmed 
anyone, and has even. taken some off drugs. 
Some serious individuals have achieved 
peace in heart and mind." 
He is puzzled by the drug problem and cannot understand why such people "sup plement" is needed by the younger generation. 
"Youth already have the elixir that is youth--why do they need drugs? Elderly persons may need drugs but not youth." 
He then explained that the Indians feel theat there are certain duties for aifferent periods of life. 
"Youth should go outandplay football and act while they are young and are able, not sit and think like an old man. If they do this when they are young, what will they do when they are old? They should experience life--but not without discipline--and later turn to meditation and religious thoughts." 
Shankar also wished to tell his prospective audiences that "you don't have to get stoned to come and see Ravi Shankar." He gave a rather humorous account of some of his fans who sit transfixed in lotus position throughout his performance and think they're really cool when they are actually in dire agony. and recalled people who came high and "did strange, freaky things, "not only ignoring the performance thesmelves but also distracting those who have come for serious purposes. The music itself. Shankar believed, gives an uplift, a stirring personal experience, a kind of "natural high.". 
"Indian music needs the same respectful attitude as Bach, Beethoven, and Mozart-­you don't see sloppy people necking and drinking CocaCola at classical music concerts." 
Shankar speculates that he will spend two more years touring and then return to India. coming out "only for an occasional con­l'ert." His self-appointed mission--to spread tlw Eastern culture throughout the West-­lwgan in 1956 as a reaction to the direction ll'hich most popular music was taking. 
Shankar sees himself as still a student--"! discover something new at every per­formance"--and something like a per­sonification of Indian music itself, which is eonstantly striving for perfection. 
"As my Guru used to say," Shankar 
smiled. "it takes more than one lifetime ..." 

ST.UDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSION 
ANNOUNCES A 




PROHIBITION HOMECOMING 
(a Ia Bonnie & Clyde) 
We'll make  Make You  An Offer You Can't Refuse!  
PROHIBITION PARTY  STEPAN CENTER, FRIDAY OCT. 13, 8:30 pm 1:OOom, COMPLETE with  
20piece Bross Bond, Buffet Dinner, OldTime Cars, 1920's Decor,  
etc. etc., etc.  All for only $5.00 per couple, if you buy "Guess Who"  
Concert Tickets.  ($6.00 per couple if you only buy the Party tickets.  

"GUESS WHO" CONCERT TICKETS 2 select $5.50 or $3.00 tickets for Saturday Night ore available for anyone purchasing prohibition party tickets. 
PITT FOOTBALL TICKETS To make it a complete weekend the first 250 couples purchasing Prohibition. Party Tickets hove the option of purchasing two. $8.00 General AdJTljssion Football Tickets. These tickets WILL NOT BE SOLrl\individuolly at any other time. The ENTIRE Homecoming Package includes $5.00 for Party tickets $11.00 or $6.00 for concert tickets and $16.00 for football tickets $32.00 or $27.00 total for a good old time Homecoming weekend. 


Tickets on sole beginning Wed., Sept . 27 at 3:00pm in the Fiesta Lounge and then in Student Union Office 
4:00 to 5:00pm every day. 

6 the observer Wednesday1 September 27I 1972 


24 -hour LaFortune 'no problem· 
by David Rust Obst•rvt>r Starr Reporter 
"It is no insurmountable problem," in keeping LaFortune open aII day long." 
Pears' comment came in the coursl' of an interview laying the base for this second and final artide of the two-part Ohst•rvt·•· s1•ries, studying the possibility of 
maintaining the LaFortune 
Student Centf'r and operating it 24 
hours a day. 
Notn• Dame's Security Director, sPrving at that post since Dec. l, I!Hili, is mor<' optimistic about running Laf<'ortune on a full-day basis than is its manager, Bro. l•'rancis (;orch, interviewed Vt'SI Prda V. · "A fu-11-timl' supervisor--lay pPrson, studPnt or what have you-­rwPds to he in charge," says Pears. 
·Atkr that's done I see no in­surmountable problem in keeping LaFortum· opm all day long." 
hy John Culligan 
Last Friday the suggestion to opPn the Student Center for 24 hours every day was made in an Ob.sPrver t>ditorial. In a follow-up of that Pditorial, The Observor asked several students their opinions on this subject. 
Mike Hyback "I think that it would be a good idea. It is somewhere to meet friends and if vou wanted to have a late (wganization m<'eting, it would be a good place to eome. I live off campus and come here a lot to study and m<'t't people."· 
Dan Clifford "I think that it is a good idea. If it isn't possible to OJWil it seven days a week, then it should be open at least on wPekends aII night.'· 
Flanner Hesident "I think it's a r<'ally good idea. It's quieter than the library. I come here to study lwcause I am not bothered and therefor<', I ean get more work dorw." 
Tim Evf.'rt "The hours of the Studf.'nt Cl'nter definitely should be irHTPased, especially on weekends. 
I live on campus and like to come hPrl' to read." 
Frank Biehann "Yes, it should h<•. I come here to study a couple of hours every day. I live off campus and find it a good place to come." 
Cynthia Booth " 1 think that it is a good idea. I live at St. Mary's, but have all my classes over here at Notre Dame. I like to come to the Student Center between classes to study and get something to eat at the Huddle." 

John Greving · "I think that it should be open 24 hours a day every day. It is a good place for me to come and study. I live off• campus and come here not only to study, but to meet my friends."
• 
Off Campus Resident"It's a good idea. I occassionally come here to

t 
study in the lounges and also get• something to eat at the Huddle."
• 
• •~ •
• 
f 


St•l·urity Dirt>ctor Pears is op­
timistic about kt>eping LaFortune 
Ollt'JI. 

Pears agrees with Bro. Gorch that security at LaFortune is often a problem. "Whenever you have a building," says Pears, "in which students can eat, study, recreate, sleep and congregate, you get your share of non-students using the 
Students voice abundant praise 




abreak.
for proposed LaFortune hours 
Patrick Refter "if it could 
possibly happen, it would be great, 
hut I don't think that it is possible, 
I live off campus and come here to 
study without any disturbances." 
John Paul Jeffrey "I think that it 
would be a great idea to open it for 
24 hours each day. I come here 
about three times a week to play 
pool. get a snack, and study." 
Tom Hurley "It's a good idea 
because it would be a good place to 
study. l{ight now, there is no place 
to study after one a.m. except the 
dorms. !<'or me, it isn't pasv to 
study in my room because· my 
roommate goes to bed at 11 p.m. 
t>very night. 
Dillon Hesident "I like to come to 
tht> Student Center every day to 
study and get a snack. If it were 
open all night. it would be a good 
place to go to study for an exam." 
Badin Resident "I go to the 
Student Center to study because it 
is doser than the library. I would 
like to see it opened longer because 
it is such a good place to study and 
talk with friends." 
Interviews with several others 
produced similar results. 
Everyone I talked with agreed that 
I he Student Center should be 
opened for 24 hours every day. 
Off campus students par­ticularly expressed enthusiasm for the idea. They like to go to the lounges to study and meet and talk with their friends. 
A lot thought that the Huddle also should be open all night so that it would be possible for a person to take a break from his all night studying and get a bite to eat. 
Also mentioned, however, was the possibility of increased van­dalism unless security guards 
Sweeney's Shamrock Bar Waiter Wanted for Fri. nite & Sat. 
234-4725 

says 

When it comes to pianos. we will
~ 
do just about anything. 
a 
If we can't do it. we willtryto find
~ 
-
someone who does. 
l 
l 
Call me now for an
I I appointment 674-9335 
~ 
I I fPiano Pete'' 
I 
t 
I ( u.s. 20 Osceola, lndlafta
I ~ 
l I 


Quality Tuning and Repairing 
facilities and, therefore, your share of theft and destruction." 
Supervisor Needed 
Unsupervised, speculates Pears, 
"after a short time everything 
would be carried off. We have 
problems with furniture being 
stolen even in Grace and Flanner," 
he added. 
But with a supervisor, argues Pears, the theft and destruction is curtailed severely. 
Would guards need to be placed inside the building, as Bro. Gorch contends? Not at all, says Pears, students. 
"You still have a problem with the other entrances," admits Pears, "because they all have to have firebars on the inside." But he adds that this problem always exists. 
Open Events 
So do.es the problem of outsiders using LaFortune's facilities. "We know that groups occasionally sponsor social activities open to anyone," says Pears. "That's where cost of damage comes." 
In short, looking at the situation 
analytically, Pears believes the 
institution of a responsible 
supervisor and a check-in system 
wopld be sufficient for security. Regarding it officially in relation to what his plans would be if the building were to open for the duration of the entire day, Pears guarantees that "My grounds people would check in occasionally and ask the supervisor how things were going. BBesides that, he . would know that he could always 
call here when he needs help." 
"That's not our function. We're not night clerks. We're simply around in case trouble arises." 
Although the security office would not be directly involved in 

Wegiuemaking security arrangements for the bulding, Pears believes that the best plan would be to lock all outside entrance doors bout one at a certain hour of the evening, and then require everyone entering and exiting to check-in and check­




students

out. permitting entrance only by 
I Send for your Student Identification Card and get a 
·-----------------·

were posted throughout the 
b1g break on rates at 75 Hilton Hotels and Inns coast I 
building. 
I to coast. (Grad students and faculty, too.) Just mail I

In most dorms, the lounges and 
1 this coupon to Hilton Hotels Corp., Travel Dept., I

study rooms are now occupied by 
I Nat_1onal Sales Div., 9880 Wilshire Blvd .. Beverly Hills, 

students, who have to use them as their living quarters. Many feel 
Calif. 90210. Then come visit the Hiltons. X I that the students are in need of I I some place where they could go to 
I I

study, get a snack, or just meet Name
I -----------I

their friends and talk whenever they got the urge to. 1 Address 1 
The Observer is published daily 

I Citv~--___ ~-State Zip___ I
during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and 
I College__ ___ _ Class of 19 I St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $e per semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 
:HILTOn HOTELs:

postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
·-----------------· 
IHf ~IRQH I!RfWtn COMPAN't' OfliOII. MICHIGA'·• 46'27t> 


Complete text of Kersten's address 
My depraved members of the illiterate rabble and rabletti, though--as pJ;ime mover-" 1 am of course bound by no obligation to in­form the public concerning my arbitrary whim and caprice--1 have--nevertheless-­deemed it permissible to come to you tonight (via a media which cannot misquote my 
splendiliquous eloquence) to further confuse you concerning my future plans. 
It should be no secret to you that ever since my election last spring I have been desiring to res ion from the trivial, mundane office of S. B. Pres. , in order to seek hiqher. more ap­propriate honors and aggrandizement· for myself. Yet, I have found that in speaking with members of the illiterate rabble over the last month, many have been unable to un­derstand my desire to leave this thankless position, a position for which there exists even no legitimate remuneration. 
It appears that many of these students huve 
sensed that my protestations about having a 
19 hour course load in a major other than 
political science were just an excuse to cover 
up the real reason behind my expressed in­
tentions of abdicating. It is for this reason 
that I speak to you tonight--for I must now 
confirm that these suspicions are in­
contestably true. There is indeed a deeper 
reason which made me desire to quit--for I am 
now forced to admit that between July 28, 1952 
and December of 1958, I was subject to a 
repetitive, compulsive bedwetting probelm 
which forced me on three separate occasions 
to purchase a new mattress--and though I was 
able to finally overcome this problem --with 
the help of a team of psychiatrists using sh­
IQck. therapy--at the age of six, it was, 
nevertheless,· responsible for my lack of close 
friends in this critical period of childhood--a 
factor which directly induced me to seek the 
Office of Student Body President. 
During and immediately after the election, 
I did not at first view this past medical history 
as anything more than a mere physical af­
fliction . I looked upon it much as most of you 
look upon the grilled cube steak in the Dining 
Hall. Not until the FAA permit was denied 
my hot air balloon in which I had intended to 
ascend in Heaven last May 11 did I realize 
that these inadvertant nocturnal emissions 
were a sign from the Father that I was no 
longer pure and was not fit to continue to 
reign as Prime Mover. 
I was left with no choice but to accept the 
will of the Father, and I resolved to ac­
complish this as soon as the S.L.C. elections 
had been held. Ed Gray, spokesman for the Vice President, was behind me in this decision one-thousand percent, and, to show his support, he has already tendered his resignation as Vice President, effective last April 1. 
The route for me, however, is no longer so simple. For, should I resign, as I had planned to do, I am now faced with the probabilitythat John ·Abowd will highly recommend his brother Anthony out of his recently acquired 
S.L.C. seat and into the presidency. 
I must admit that Anthony, or in fact any one of the five self-recommended •Observer candidates on the S. L.C., has the lackluster character which makes him the logical choice for this demeaning office. It is jut that the thought of the poobahs on the Observer having control of both the S.L.C. and the office of the Student Body President, might be unsettling enough to bring on a relapse in the problem which I had so successfully over­come, which gives me pause. 
Therefore I was left in search of an alter­native way to acceptably fill the throne after my departure. At first, I had considered fathering an heir, but I then realized that a less encumbering solution must be available. The answer which I sought came to me, predictably enough, in a dream--in which I envisioned a baby-faced man of purported illegitimate birth dressed in flowing robes. I immediately awoke and was puzzled as to the meaning of this divine visitation, until I gazed down at H-man, dutifully sleeping at my feet. 
At once I recalled the indelicate relationship existing between H-man and the Office of the Provost. Only then did I realize that the deity was demanding that I too create an Office of the Provost, to handle all interal affairs, ex terna I affairs--yea, verily--the whole confused mess (to mis-quote the Observer). 
Therefore I am pleased to announce the creation of the Office of Student Provost, who shall heretofore receive carte blanche authority to assume the powers invested in me by the Prime Mover's Mover. The office shall be filled by decision of the ad hoc search committee, consisting of H-man and myself, which has been found expressly for this purpose. All further executive decrees shall issue from this office and I shall remain the ceremonial figurehead I have always been-­concerning myself with only s1.1ch empty functions as presenting the flag at football games, escorting Miss America on campus, and meeting with the Board of Trustees. 
I remain yours in Peace, l-U-V luv and beauty, R. Calhoun Kersten. 

Wednesday, September 27 1972 the observer 7
' 
HOWARD HALL LECTURE SERIES 
presents 
Prof. Emil T. Hofman speaking on 
''The Rise and Fall of The Big Bands" 
Wednesday Sept. 27, 7:30 p.m. 
• 

Hall Chapel ,. THE NOTRE DAME BALTIC SOCIETY will meet TONIGHT in Louie's Restaurant beneath the picture of Mindaugas, King of Ancient Lithuania. The Five-Year Plans of the Lithuanian Liberation Front will be presented -­ 
CLASSIFIED RDS WANTED NEED 3 PURDUE TICKETS. CALL FRED 3118. To exchange · 2 Purdue generalad. field tickets for any other two tix. Pat 6733. FOR SALE Please! Need one general ad-For Sale: '71 Honda CL350 ex-mission Pittsburgh ticket. Call cellent cond & 112 year insurance5312. $650, 1339. Need 4 general admission tickets For Sale: one senior footballfor Missouri game. Name the ticket. Call 232-0151 after 9 pmprice. Chris, 1002. reasonable price! Wanted: motel rooms for Oct. 14. CHEAPER than leasing! NEWIf you have reservations in a westinghouse compactnearby motel for both nights of refigerators. 4.4 cubic ft.the Pitt. weekend, and you only capacity, factory warranty,want to use Friday's, call me! I Wynne's Refrigeration Co. 234­need two double rooms tor 0578.relatives on Oct. 14. Will gladly pay the price. John 8810. 2 "Chicago" tickets, floor 12th row. Call: 1970.Wanted: 4 general admission tix for Pitt. Call John 8810. Two tickets for sale to Chicago concert. Section 15. InterestedNeed 2 Michigan tix. Will pay persons call Tom 233-4202.higher prices. Call 6768. 1966 Alta-Romeo GSGT freshRoommate needed -own bedroom engine -never raced new W-0 -$45 mo. 234-3592 evenings -close radials -drive to beleive $2000.to campus. John 8927. Badly need 4 Missouri tickets. PERSONALSBill 233-9032. Hey free spitir! Smile God lovesWanted: 2Chicago tix Section C-you! L.S.-G.S.D. any price 272_-1709. Attention: Father Jim and Mr.SEX -Just wanted to get your Tuba! SMC student in need of anattention. Need three student affair. Please contact Sistertickets for Purdue. Need not be Mary Terrifia.together; will pay your price.Call Kirk 6984. NOTICES Need 2-8 general admission The Pitt Club is sponsoring a triptickets for Purdue. Money no to the PITTSBURGH PIRATES.object. Call 1486. CINCINNATI REDS PLAYOFF on Saturday, October 7. All thoseNeed ride to Iowa -west on 80 -interested in attending the game,Oct. 5. CaII 4625 or 4449. whether you're from Pittsburgh or Cincinnati. please call Jim 8371Need two general admission tix or Pat 8422 before Thursday.together for Missouri and· Texas Christian game. Call Kevin at STUDENT DRUG IN­7845. FORMATION CENTER has been relocated. Come to room 219 inNeeded: 4 tickets, Purdue game, the library for any drug coun­general admission. Call 259-3297. seling or into. Mon-Fri, 7-9 pm. Or call 232-8867.Wanted: Part-time legalsecretaries to assist small law Morrissey Loan Fund Open.firm. General Practice. Inquire: Borrow up to $150. 11:15-12:15920 South Bend Avenue; 234-3216. Monday thru Friday. LaFortune Basement.Need Purdue tickets, generaladmission or student. Call Frank Bored over Christmas? Try8825 or Ed 8463. Europe. An unbelievable $l90 round trip. Call Clark 283-8810 torNeed any number Purdue tickets. details.Call Jim 287-0900. Leave Message. Those who have had a chance for tour years and could not produceWanted: 2 Missouri general peace, should not be givenadmission tickets. Will pay your another chance. Richard Nixon,price. Maria 1715 or 5166. October 9, 1968, Santa Monica, California.Need Missouri tix: 2 student, 2 general admission. Tim 1678. LOST AND FOUND Need 2-5 TCU general admission Lost: Architecture historytickets. Call Tom 1387. notebook in South Dining hall. Very important. Call Fritz, 1529.Friend needs ride to Conn-NYC after Purdue game. If your Found: one grey kitten with bluefriends, parents are driving out collar. Call 6791.this weekend, call 3508. Stolen -10 speed ICITOH, yellow Need ride to MSU Fri. Oct. 6help with black handle-bars and seat. on gas. Call Ken at 6772. Boy's bike. REWARD. Call P. Steele 4809.Opponent for postal chess wanted. Contact Jim Meyers, P.O. Box Found: French book, Parole et695, the Western College, Oxford, Pensee, please identify, call 8118.0. 45056. Need two roomates: furnished 2 bedroom apt $60 each a month. Call Tom or Pete 233-4202.  

A new idea in comfort 
MANHATTAN MANTOPS . R. 
Here Is the greatest selection 
of shirts and sweaters ever 
assembled ... each one is color 
coordinated and styled to fit 
into your way of life. 
Manhattan puts all their 
know-how and quality into 
these new, handsome Man­
tops. See our selection. 
DOUBLEKNIT! 
The greatest fabric ever for men's wear ...we feature doub1eknit suits from $65, slacks from $14. 
Use the Campus Shop 
Way to buy. Great 
Pay one third in January, one third in February, one third in March with no service or carrying charge added. 
The Mantops above is a pure wool sleeveless sweater in shades of blue and red. In­dispensable. 

$12 

on Hi~e ··campus:..Notre Dame­
------------, 
Versatile Clements leads offense 
~ 
-----~-----­

the observer Wednesday, September 27, 1972
8 

by Vic Dorr of 98 passes for 731 yards and four Northwestern, saw both good and touchdowns, and led the frosh bad in his initial performances for 
"Versatility" is perhaps the best team to a 2-2 season. Spring the ND varsity.

word to use when talking about practice saw him rated as a "I don't think I passed as well as

Tom Clements, Notre Dame's. 

"possible" contender for the I can," he said, "but I got thesophomore quarterback. 
number one quarterback job, and nervousness out of me--and so didA six-footer from McKee's his fortunes have done nothing but the other new starters. I'm sureRocks, Pennsylvania, Clements 
climb since then. we'll get better as the season goes
won ten monograms in football, "No," he said. "I really didn't along."

basketball and baseball while at expect to be the number one Much is being asked of ND'sPittsburgh's Canevin High School. 

quarterback so soon.' In spring offensive platoon this season, butHe was a member of the state practice last year I just wanted to Clements is confident that his unitbasketball champions as a see if I could do the job. Of course, can get their job done.
sophomore and of the state football you think you'd like to start--and "I don't feel thaL there's anychampions as a junior. During his my goal was to start...so I was pressure affecting us. The defense senior year, Clements was named anxious to do well during the is young, but they've got a lot ofto Pennsylvania's Big-33 Football spring. During the fall I just good people. And we've got a realTeam, and was also picked as a wanted to continue what I'd done good offense. If we can execute,high school All-American. 

during the spring." and score, things will eventuallyHe was heavily recruited during Clements this fall has not only take care of themselves."
his last year at Canevin, but only continued what he'd been doing Execution and scoring will betwo schools were in serious con­during April and May--he's also much in demand this Saturday­tention for his services. 

improved. He has improved to the both from Tom Clements and from "It came down to either Notre point where he is frequently the entire ND team--when the Irish Dame or North Carolina," he said . 
• compared with another smallish resume their heated rivalry with
''Notre Dame recruited me for ND quarterback--Joe Theismann. Purdue's Boilermakers.

football, and North Carolina "Theismann was tremendous," "That," admitted Clements, "iswanted me for basketball. I came said Clements, "but comparisons going to be a rough game. Theyhere mainly because of the football with him don't really bother me--or have experience and a big defense, program, but my brother went affect me. I don't try to pattern and they'll be looking for revengehere, too--and he did a bit to in­myself after anyone when I play. I from last year. We won't do muchfluence me. I was also influenced just do what comes natural." different against them, our of­by Notre Dame's tradition." 

fenses will be basically the same,
Losing Clements may not have "In high school," he continued, 
but I think we will be able to move 
Marx awarded game ball

greatly affected the basketball "we didn't pass a lot, so I ran quite the ball.
fortunes of UNC's Tarheels, but a bit. This year, our offense has a "Purdue is the big game," he
gaining him has had a very large lot of rollout in it. If I see a Notre Dame's senior co-captain chosen the best defensive per­
continued. "If we can get by them,
effect on Notre Dame's football receiver open, I can pass the ball, and defensive tackle, Greg Marx, former. fortunes. but if I see I've got a run I can take and if we can get past Michigan was given the game ball Monday at Helmet stars were presented to 
Last season, as the freshman it. .. State the next week--well, we'll Cartier Field as the Fighting Irish George Hayduk and Gary signal caller, Clements rushed for Clements, who didn't have to do have a lot more confidence after conducted their first awards Diminick for fumble recoveries, 237 yards and an average of 5.5 a great deal of running or passing that. And if we play well, I think ceremony of the year. O'Malley, Reggie Barnett and Rob yards per carry. He completed 48 in last Saturday's 37-0 romp over we can go undefeated." Tackle John Dampeer, Notre Zanot, who intercepted passes, and 
An undefeated season is a big Dame's other co-captain, was Gary Potempa, who tipped a passgoal, and reaching it will take honored as the top offensive player that was intercepted.
Jim DonaIdson ::==================================================~=~=============================================::: 
every bit of Tom Clement's con­in Saturday's 37-0 victory ov!:'r 
fidence--and versatility. Northwestern while senior 

Irish climb to



The Irish Eye 
==================================================================No fime for a I etdown 
Notre Dame football fans have been savoring their ball club's im­pressive. 37-0, season opening win over Northwestern since Saturday but. for the Irish coaches and players, the joys of victory aren't so long­lived. 
Ara Parseghian and his staff forgot about Northwestern and started to think about Purdue Sunday morning and began drilling the Irish Monday afternoon for their home opener against the Boilermakers. 
Purdue was given a good chance to beat the Irish by many pre-season 
grid analysts and, although the Boilers have lost their first two games, 
they still rank as one of the toughest teams on Notre Dame's schedule. 
There's little doubt that coach Bob DeMoss will have his Boilermakers 
·­
"up" for their meeting with Notre Dame. In addition to the pair of frustrating defeats to Bowling Green and Washington this season, both of 
I 
I 
I 
t 
linebacker Jim O'Malley was 






OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
tenth in polls 
Southern Cal retained its number one ranking in both wire service polls this week while Notre Dame moved into the top ten for the first time. 
The Trojans, 55-20 winners over Illinois last weekend, collected 28 of the 50 first place votes cast in the 
A.P. poll and 20 of 35 number one ballots in the U.P.I. ratings to retain the top spot for the third straight week. Oklahoma's Sooners and the Colorado Buf­

which came as a result of late-game field goals, Purdue can look back on faloes were ranked second and their last two meetings with the Irish for further inspiration. third, respectively, by both wire Notre Dame ended a three-year losing streak to Purdue in 1970 by services.

ND harriers 3rd in 
trouncing the Boilers, 48----.n. Last season, the Irish nipped Purdue 8-7 in After defeating Northwestern 37­Ross-Ade Stadium with a miracle finish on a wet, miserable afternoon. oSaturday, the Fighting Irish, now Trailing 7-----n with less than three minutes remaining, the Irish got on 1-0 climbed from 13th to the the scoreboard when defensive end Fred Swendson recovered a fumble number 11:1 position, behind
quadrangu!qr 
meet by Purdue punter Scotty Lougheed in the end zone. Notre Dame tried a Louisiana State, in both polls. two-point conversion and made it, Pat Steenberge lofting a pass to tight end Mike Creaney. The Boilers never recovered from the heart-by John Wick A. P. breaking loss and stumbled to a 3-7 record, despite an impressive array The Notre Dame cross country 
IThr Top Twl'nty teams. with first·

of talent. team suffered a disappointing place •·otes m parentheses. season Purdue still has good ballplayers in abundance, although injuries have defeat Saturday in a quadrangular rtcords and total pomts. Points based on 26-IH-I6-14-I2-I0-9·8·7·6-5-4-3·2·1:)
cut into the roster somewhat. Halfback Darryl Stingley, who rushed for meet at Northwestern. The Irish 
I. Southern Cahfomta (28) (:1-0) 9411

248 yards in '71 and caught 36 passes for 734 yards, is a questionable finished behind Illinois and Nor­2. Oklahoma (14) .. :.. . _ (2-0) 894 starter because of an ankle injury which has kept him out of the first two thwestern but did manage to edge 3. Colorado (5) . . . . . . (3·0) 728 
~. Tennt'ssel' (I)... .(3-0) 622

games. Tackles Brent Myers and Mike Albrght are other offensive carthage College for third place 
5. Ohto State (1).. . .(1-0) 544

cas':lalties while linebacker Rick Schavietello, who was in on 21 tackles The Illinois squad ran a tough fi .\lahama. . . . . . . . (2-0) 4611 agamst Notre Dame a year ago, and cornerback Arnold Carter are race, staying to the rear of the i. Xrbraska . .. (2·1 1 46.1 doubtful ~tarters Saturday. . . pack for the first half of the race, 9. LOUISiana State. (~·0) 396 
H. ~hchtgan (.1 1 .. . . .. (2-0) 426 

The Bmlermakers have enough l?eople stlll h~althy ,to get ~e JOb don~, then breaking away together just IO. Xotre Dame .. _ ..·.. (1-0) 319 
II ..\mona Stall• ......... _.. c:l-0) 242

however. Quarterback Gary Damelson,the Btg Tens leadmg passer m when everyone else was beginning 
IZ. Tl'xas.... .... .. ....... ..(1-0) I31

1971, has won his starting job back from Bo Bobrowski, and ran for over to feel the strain. That is almost 13. Pt•nn Sta!e.... .(1·1) 130 200 ~ards last Satu_rday a~ainst Washinton. , . ~ . everyone. ' 1~. Washington . . . (3·0) 103 
15. L'CLA. . .(2·1) 69

Otis Armstrong IS a cmch t? become Purdue s all-tlme leadmg Notre Dame captain Dan Dunne 
16 t'londa State .. . .. (3·0) &I rusher _b~fore the sea so~ ends and ts equally da~ge~ous as a _pass c~tcher. stayed with the Illini runners and 1i. \hsstssippi.. . (2·01 50 
IS. Tulane . . . . . . (2-11) 34

In additiOn, there a~e eight veterans on the Emler s defens~ve umt. grabbed sesond place, while first 
I9. Stanford . .. .. . . (2·0) 28

Turnovers, especially fumbles, have ,plagued Purdue this season but, place honors went to Jim Vogle of ~'0 West \'irgmta ............ (3·01 ~'0 if the Boilers manage to run their newly installed Wishbone-T offense Northwestern Others receiving \'Oil's. hsted 
alphaDettcally: Air Foret.>..\rkansas.

without mishapagainstthe Irish, then Notre Dame's young defense may Jeff Eich~er also ran a good 
Georgia. Georgia Tech. Iowa Stall•.be !n for a long afternoon. . . . ·race for the Irish, finishing Louisvtlle. Sorth Carolina. San Diego 
f urdue has better runners, both mstde and outstde, than Nor-seventh but there were just too Stall'. Southern ~lethodtst. Texas 
Chnsllan. Texas Tech. Tolt•do.

thwestern and, in Danielson, Arms~rong, and wide rece~ver Rick Sayers, many 'Northwestern runners possesses a much more potent passmg threat than the Wildcats. between Eichner and Notre 
UPI

The Boil~rs have. P~,ssed for only 43 yards ~his season but, earlier this, Dame's third finisher, Marty Hill, wPek, Damelson said, How much we throw wtll depend on the look Notre to give the Irish the points needed (The t'mtrd Prrs.> lntrmatwnal top 
~'0 maJor ('OIIt•g!• football lt•ams 11 tth

'Dame shows us. If they play a tight, man-to-man defense, we'll throw. If to win. 
ftr,t placr I'Otes and" on-lost rt•cords m 

they drop back, we'll run the Wishbone. The race was held on what could parentheses). 
1 South•·n1 Cal (20) (3-0J :m

Either_ way, Purdue could ~ive the _Irish fits. . be termed an "excellent" ·cross 
2 Oklahoma (m(2·0) . 319

In _their early ~eek practtce s~ss10ns, the Boilers have been country course. It was run over six 3. Colorado (I) (3-0) 253 workmg on defensmg Notre Dames powerful ground game. How well miles of very rough and ~ Tennes.~er (3-0) 19:1 
o \labama (I) (2·0) . Jti:i

the~ can perform that difficult task remai~s to be seen ~ut, wi~h the likes treacherously wet ground, 
6 OhtoSt (1)(1-0) J~ 

of 6 7, 279 pound tackle Dave Butz cloggmg up the mtddle, 1t seems a resulting from alight rain that fell· i Xt•braska U·l) t:!7 
R. 'lichigan (2-0) 90

certai~ty th~t the Irish will h~ve to pass with m~re eff~cti_veness than Friday night. Scattered about the 
9 Louisiana St (2-0) . 69

th~.Y _did agamst Nort~~estern ~~order to loosen thmgs up _mstde. . rugged terrain were several steep 10 Xotn• Dame (1·0) .. ~ Jimmy the Greek Snyder hsts Notre Dame as 15 pomt favorttes on hills a feature not often en­ll \mona St (2·0) 53 
12 ll'ashtr.glon (3-0) . lti

his Las Vegas line and that's displaying a bit more confidence in the cou~tered on the Notre Dame golf 
13 t'londa St. (J-0) I:J

Irish than is merited. Noire Dame has a good team this year, potentially course where the Irish harriers 14 Texas (1·0) Jl a great one. But Purdue is a much better club than they've shown. With train ' 15 Iowa St (2-0) . i 
16 P1•nn St. (I-I)...... . S

that little extra s~ark that's a part of the Notre J?ame-Purdu_e series Notre Dame will face even meet the Spartans of Michigan I; (Tit· I Atr Fort'l' f2·0) ~ added, the~e promtses to. be one heck of_ a game thts weeken~ m Notre stiffer competition Saturday in tTir) W \'trgtnia (J-0) ~
State, Big Ten cross country 
19 L'CL.\ (2-1) .. . 3

DameStadmm. One that ftgures to be dectded by less than 15 pomts. East Lansing, Michigan, whre they champs for the last few years. 20. ~llsstssippi (2·0 . . . . . . 2 




