
~-----------------­

cold again today and most of the next two ... not even any hope of seeing the sun. maybe next semester . . . 
Voi.VI, No. 61 serving the notre dame -saint mary's college community Friday, January 21, 1972 


Nixon: a call for reason, realism 
<l' l I!172 Washington Star many segments of the nation's population, missle." including farmers, businessmen, minority The military research and development 
Washington, Jan. 20--President Nixon groups and conservatives, as well as program would be stepped up, he said, called today for a new program to spur liberals. with a $838 million budget increase in this technological research and development His long written message repeated his field. aim<'d at improving the everyday lives of "firm belief th~t educational quality--so The President did not spell out his plans i\nwrica ns. vital to the future of all children--is not for stepping up civilian technology 
In his state of the Union message, he also Pnhanced by unnecessary busing for the research and development. He said called for increased defense spending, a sole purpose of achieving an arbitrary America's outstanding capabilities in new approach to the delivery of social racial balance." space technology should be used to help services, and elimination of the $5.80 Describing strong military defenses as develop better mass transportation monthly fee for Medicare doctor bill in­the guardian of peace rather than its systems. surance. enemy, Nixon said "There could be no 
funds for ecology
But the President put most emphasis on more misguided set of priorities than one n•ncscd pleas for passage by congress this which would tempt others by weakening The targets for his proposed increased year of many of his proposals of the last America, and thereby endanger the peace emphasis on technological research, lhrl'e years--particualrly welfare reform, of the world." Nixon said, would include creating new revenue sharing and government sources of clean and abundant energy;

more military aid
reorganization. developing safe, fast pollution-free lie urgl'd C'ongress to rise above political He said his increased military budget­transportation; reducing the loss of life pressures in this election year to make and property from earthquakes and
he reserved news of the amount of the 
sure that "legislation the nation needs increase for his budget message next hurricanes; developing effective not'S not become hostage to the political Monday--would include "further sub­emergency health care systems that could interest of any party or any person." stantial military aid increases." lead to saving 30,000 lives each year; 
Noting that there arc more announced He also said that he would submit plans finding new ways to curb drug traffic and candidates for hdhc presidency sitting in to Congress for reform of minlitary rehabilitate drug users. ('ongress today than at probably any other Nixon described the theme of his written 
retirement and survivor benefit programs lime in the nation's history, Nixon said: to raise the level of protection of military message as a "call to reason and to 
"Let us have our debates. Let us have our realism."
families. 

hom•st differences. But let us join in Nixon declared thaat he is confident that 
foreign policy the same
keeping the national interest alive first." 
the goals of reducing draft calls to zero cao 
be achieved by the middle of next year. On the foreign policy front, the president His budget, he said, would includP a $2 offered nothing new. He said that thetelevision appearance million increase for the navy. He also United States ground combat role in The President appeared before a mentioned "a substantial budget increase Vietnam has been ended and noted that 
1. levised joint session of Congress in the to preserve the sufficiency fo our strategic 480,500 troops will have been withdrawn by 
I. Juse chamber at 12:30 p.m., E.S.T. to nuclear deterent, including an allocation May 1. ddiver a 4,000 word message highlighting of over $900 million to improve our sea­Nixon emphasized that "we will act to 
defend our interests whenever and
,1 written address more than four times based dPterrent force." hmger than he submitted at the same time. Nixon also said he has asked the defense wherever they are threatened anyplace in 
Although avoiding direct partisan ap­department to develop a program to build the world," but "where our interests or our p~als, Nixon's message contained new missle-launching submarines, treaty commitments are not involved ... we l;mguage obviously aimed at pleasing carrying "a new and far more effective will not intervene militarily." 


$1.6 million 

Expansion confirmed for Law school 
estimates under $1.5 million. It is Bar Association warned the ND according to certain im­the SBA's insistence on finding
by l'hris Sullivan 

unlikely that the cost will exceed Law school that its library was provement proposals, which he "some other way" to solve the Law School Dean Thomas the $1.6 million target, he con­"inadequate." In 1968, the ABA said were more extensive than law school's current problems. Shaffer officially announced the tended. threatened to revoke the school's the one announced Thursday, The SBA leader contended that The "relatively small saving accreditation if additional were abandoned. The present carrying out the present plan
Jaw school's planned $1.6 million 
expansion and renovation at a of a $200,000 grant" is not the volumes were not purchased. plan, according to Schaeffer, was might result in the law facilities primary reason for "proceeding
law meeting Tuesday morning in An immediate "pumping in" of developed from drawings made becoming again inadequate 
Washington Hall. The Observer immediately", , but rather the books by then Dean Lawless in 1967 under Dean O'Mara. perhaps "ten years from now." and the South Rl'nd Tribunl' had 
immediate need for "library and gained the law school a reprieve, SBA President Hartzer, in a He held also that it would be reported the plans in last study space," according to noted Schaeffer, by due to the interview later said that Friday's detrimental to the school to Thursday editions. Schaeffer. lack of sufficient library space, referendum at the law school reduce enrollment at a time when 
Whatever possible changes the new books were stored "all may indicate that a large applications are most numerousWhile making the an-
there may be in tuition would over" the law building. To relieve proportion of the students share ever. Postponing a final decisionnouncement, he responded point­reflect the University's plan to this inconvenience, Schaeffer the SBA's and certain faculty "for a few months," Hartzerby-point to eight objections £'quate law school and un­said, various building proposals members' "basic policy said, might allow the potentialpresented by the Student Bar dergraduate tuitions, Schaeffer have been considered since he disagreement"with Schaeffer .He ND-SMC merger to offer aAssociation at the meeting. SBA said. They would not be affected took office in 1971. felt that if the referendum solution.
President Tim llartzer, Thur­by the decrease in the student Fund-raising activity under revealed a widespread lack of r Copies of the SBA's eight-point sday afternoon expressed his 
body of the law school. Dean Lawless yielded pledges support for Schaeffer's proposal, protest will be sent to the Lawgroup's dissatisfaction with the Plans for a graduate law totalling only $500,000, therefore the dean might be receptive to Advisory Council and to thedt'an's response and outlined 
program and a program of alumni association, Hartzer said. 
channels through which the distinguished visiting lecturersprotest may continue. 
are unaffected by the proposal,The dean contended that the according to the Dean. He saw noallegations of a "likelihood of "negativ£' impact of the proposal intolerable noise" during the 

Dusquene wrap-up 
on faculty recruitment"
construction undeniable, but that foreset'n.
thl' majority of the building will The decision , Schaeffer said,b£' done during the summer. 
"does not conflict with" what heSchaeffer said the law school called the law school's "com­
see Sports, page 7
had received tentative cost 
mitment to excellence." "The llniversity administration will borrow $1 million for the im­provement because of the law 

correction 
In yesterday's edition of the school's priority at ND. 
Observer, Ann Marie Tracey, "My own vision," Shaffer former St. Mary's Student Body concluded, is of a "small and President was mistakenly quoted good law school," like "Duke, 

Reactions to Alnta resignation 
as attributing a lack of com­Cornell, Stanford, Yale." · SBA munication at St. Mary's prin­President Houoiuoiuoiu 
cipally to Kahy Barlow. 
"My own vision," ShafferMiss Tracey said that there t·oncluded, is of a "small and was a communication problem at 
good law school," like "Duke, see page 2St. Mary's, but that it would be 
Cornell, Stanfor, Yale."
impossible to attribute it entirely to om• person. In 1960, he said, lh£' Am£'rican 
---~. ~-----------~-~------~--­


Page 2 THE OBSERVER 
Alma's resignation draws comment 

by Mike Baum 

ReactiOn to the recently an­nounced resignation of Sr. Alma Peter from her post as Acting President of St. Mary's College has been cautious and wary of speculation as of last night. 
University Provost Fr. James 
T. Burtchaell. remarked that "Sister Alma has presided over St. Mary's College during troubled days. Recent 

JM 
negotiations with the College have enhanced 
Burtchaell 
-our respect for 
her. It will be difficult at this point to find a capable suc­cessor." 
St. Mary's English Department and Faculty Courncil Chairman Dr. Paul Messbarger remarked "I don't know what it means. i know she is terribly pressed and doesn't feel she has the con­fidence of the community. The f~ct that she was never given full title probably has something to do with it. In a sense all of our 

administrators have been lame ducks." 
Dr. Messbarger commented that he felt the decision was justified in view of what he saw Messbarger ~s S!~ter Alms's 
mabthty to act with full authority "I think all of us understood her credentials to 
Why not sell 
' 

be limited and while she might have been, and surely was, a candidate for the presidency, none of us thought of her in those terms. That's been her difficulty to try to conduct an institution over a period of a year and a half with limited credentials, so I approve of it in that sense." 
Messbarger contended that the search for a President for St. Mary's would be hampered by the upcoming merger negotiations and added that he felt the choice would have to come from without the in­stitution," Because of the dif­ficulties of the merger ... you can't find anybody, faculty or ad­ministratuion, who is not 

----carrying all 
kinds of special 
burdens. I think 
we have to go 
outside." 
SMC Student 
Body President 
Kathy Barlow 
Barlow declined to 
comment directly upon-the 
resignation, saying,"As far as 
what effect it would have on me, 
it doesn't have an effect on me 
personally, because I'll still be 
working with Sr. Alma for the 
rest of the year.. and I won't be 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

raffle book 
CDOr..llD 
Of


this weekend? 

.J=an'tas~ 
Mardi Gras '72 


t:be
a 

nrsne~ 
here next year." 
Asked to comment on Sr. Alma's statement that she was "personally very optimistic" concerning the recently renewed merger negotiations, in­terviewees were uniformly pessimistic. Said Messbarger, "I like to think she's right, but it's difficult for me to find any hard evidence that there has been any yielding on either side, but then we have never been told what was to be yielded." 
Dr. Don Miller, Assistant Professor of the Mathematics Department and also on the Faculty Council, noted, "From everything we've heard, Notre Dame's demands for the negotiations were the same as before, and those demands ap­parently were not acceptable before. I would see no cause for optimism unless both sides changed their minds somewhat." 
Agreed Kathy Barlow, "I · would be optimistic too, if Notre Dame had said they were com­mitted to a deadlinf> " 
Bar low answers charges 
Saint Mary's Student Body President Kathy Barlow yesterday caled the loss of her Vice-President, Missy Un­derman, "unfortunate," but redused to make further official Cf)mment on the matter. 
Miss Barlow also said that the office of the Vice-Presidency would be filled through a special election sometime in the near future. 
The vacancy in the office oc­cured when Miss Underman Barlow's running-mate last spring, resigned during the closing days of last semester's unmerger protest activity. In her statement of resignation she criticized the philosophy and methods of the Student Body President. 
Barlow's reaction to the criticism was tha"the matter is a personal one between myself and Missy and not one for the 



~-~-~· 
~sso~ ~1· ..,


_:.:JI 
\,'V . ··~ 
.«!,."!""~ 

Records Radios 241 Dixie Way N. Phones · Tapes 272-7510 

Held over week nites at 7:30 Sat and Sun. at 1:30 & 7:30 
In Df"W S('n"CD SJllf"Ddi}f••• 
The mosf magnifi('f"nf 
pi(•fltf(" ('H'f! 


LESLIE 110\\i\RD 

OLIVIA de HAVILLAND 
STEREOPHONIC SOUND METROCOLOR ·An MGM Re-release 

ACADEMY AWARD WINNER 
GIG YOUNG BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR JANE FONDA BEST ACTRESS OF THE YEAR 
New York Film Critics 
BEST PICTURE OF THE YEAR 
National Board of Review 
STARRING 
JANE FONDA • MICHAEL SARRAZIN • SUSANNAH YORK GIG YOUNG • BONNIE BEDELIAAND RED BUTTONS 
A PALOMAR PICTURE * A CHARTOFF WINKLER/POLLACK PRODUCTION * SCREENPLAY BY JAMES POE AND ROBERT E. THOMPSON * BASED ON THE NOVEL BY HORACE McCOY * ASSOCIATE PRODUCER-MUSIC JOHN GREEN * EXECUTIVE PRODUCER THEODORE B. SILLS * PRODUCED BY IRWIN WINKLER AND ROBERT CHARTOFF * DIRECTED BY SYDNEY POLLACK 
PRESENTED BY THE 


CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSION 
Saturday, Jan. 23 Sunday, Jan. 24 
8:00 & 10:00 Engineering Aud. 
Admission: $1 .00 Fund Raising Film Patrons Free 

~----~ 
~-­
Friday, January 21, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 3 



wor Id briefs 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
-MORRISeu'IC 
friday, 3:30, 7:00, 9:00-­

an 31 AUDITORIUM Monday
(c) 1972 New York Times movie, wild strawberries, 
South lend, Indiana 

Washington--Well placed administration sources said Thursday t.hat the United States and Israel are close to an agreement under which 18 more American jets would be delivered to Israel in return for an Israeli agreement to participate in indirect talks with Egypt aimed at a partial withdrawal of Israeli troops from the Sinai peninsula and the reopening of the Suez Canal. 
Ottawa-A four-day-old air traffic controllers strike in Canada that has virtually closed Canadian airports began to be felt in that nation's hotels, travel agencies and taxicabs. Mail delivery was slowed as postal officals shifted to using buses, trains and trucks. And hospitals were relying on small chartered planes for emergency supplies. 
Salisbury, Rhodesia-Mob violence, unexpectedly strong black opposition and tensions between the Rhodesian government and a British fact-finding team combined to place in jeopardy the proposed settlement of Rhodesia's rebellion against Britain. Eight persons were reported injured in the latest rioting. 
Washington--One of the new proposals was a program of using technology to "improve our everyday lives." Administration sources said the program will include recommendations for development of an automated four-to-six-passenger vehicle to travel on special transit guideways, for radical improvement of fire-fighting systems and for development of an electronic mail system. 
Washington--Treasury Secretary Connally told an audience of businessmen that the budget deficit this fiscal year would approach $40 billion, but he indicated that there was no alternative at a time when there are five million persons unemployed. He chastized the businessmen for not expanding more quickly their capital investments following reinstatement of the 7 per cent investment tax credit. 
New York--Although they continued to emphasize that they believed that their material was authentic, McGraw-Hill and Life Magazine said they were deferring publication of a purported aubiography of Howard R. Hughes pending investigation into the Swiss bank account into which their checks for Hughes were deposited. 

man-around-campus­or-anywear boots 

ORIGINAL 


$22.95
Continental 

pr.

Tyroleans 

Specific styles for your kind of action ... all Italian­crafted in Bronzo or sueded leathers with Vibram or St. Moritz traction soles. And, if your "action" is in keeping up with the trends in style, the rugged looks of Conti­nental Tyroleanslfil are today's look in boots. For action -or for fashion, you just can't buy better footgear! 
"FOR BOTH MEN AND OTHER MODELS WOMEN AVAILABLE" 



Sonneborn'S 
1 1 5 W. Colfax Ave. ph. 232-1451 
~ carroll hall ..g sadurday, 8:00, 10:00-­
2 Shows Only 6:30 & 9:30 
0 movie, they shoot horses, -don't they?, o'laughlin ~ auditorrium _ . 

BY IRRESISTIBLE DEM 
0.., 3:30, 7:00,9: 00--mOVIe, Wild S strawberries, carroll h~ll lj sunday, 8:00, 10:00--movle, u they shoot horses, don't 
s:1 they?, o'laughlin 0 auditorium 
2:00, 8:00--movie, wild strawberries, carroll hall 

Q) Flare and 
u 

(/1 

Bell Bottoms 

""0 
() 
OF 50
0 

Q) a 30 only $3.75 ""0 c 
(/1 

815 S. Michigan 


-----~-----~ -~­
Friday , January 21, W72

Page 4 THE OBSERVER 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Edito•·-in-Chief. Glen S. Corso Assistant Editor .\ssistant Editor 
T.C. Treanor All successful newspapers are John Abowd 
cease! essl y querulous and 
bellicose. They never defendRusiness Manager anyone or anything if they can help Adve•·tising Manager Jim Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle 
they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 
Bus in e s s : 2 8 3 -7 4 7 1 News: 283-1715 

The Ideal Plan 
Whether or not the Law School gets a new building, or a considerably larger building sometime in the near future, will make little difference in its quality. Madeleva Hall, or the proposed $6 million law center is not going to make Notre Dame the Harvard of the midwest,in factwon't even make it the Plattsburgh of the midwest unless the quality of the student and faculty is sharply upgraded. 
That's what makes the plan presented by Dean Thomas Shaeffer so attractive. That plan, which is being attacked by the President of the Student Bar Association, takes the$ 1.6 million the law school was able to raise and puts it toward an addition and modernization of the present building. Coupled with that action is a move to reduce the enrollment by one fifth .. , from fiOO students to 400. 
The Dean's plan is ideal from almost every aspect. The school has $1.6 million, money which it raised only after considerable effort, and it doesn't have any prospects for recieving a whole lot more in the near future. The school also has a $200 thousand grant, a grantwhich is going to expire in June of this year. Rather than let that money go and rather than hope for new quarters after unification, a hope which is foolhardy giventhecurrent scarcity of space on both campuses, the law school hierarchy has opted for changes in their present physical plant 
The fate of the current physical plant is secondary to the Dean's planof reducing the enrollment The best and surest way to allow the law school to select only top quality candidates for admission is to gain a reputation for highly selective admission standards. The best and surest way to garner a reputation as a top quality law school is to admit only top applicants and to havethefaculty to match them. 
That reputaion, a reputation fro excellence,can come only through the raising of standards, and is worth more than all the buildings on both these campusess combined. That reputation for excellence is worth the noise of building during the school year and certainly worth a slightly increased tuition. 
Dean Schaeffer's plan is a good one and serves the best interest of all those in law school. 

Goodbye, Sister Alma 
As strangely and as spectacularly as she appeared on the scene, Sr. Alma Peter,C.S.C. and onetime Acting President of the onetime St. Mary's College, has chosen to check out The unexpected demise of Fr. John McGrath ushered her into her post; the more welcome death of the incipient go-it-alone hallucinations during their gestation period signalled her departure. So it goes. 
The great temptation-and great tradition-is to speak only good of the dead. But the issue--and the post--and the personality--is too important to relegate to mumbled pieties. Sr. Alma Peter was a disaster-she sat in the middle of the greatest crisis in St. Mary's history unmoved, unmoving, perhaps un­comprehending. She was everywhere unimportant and impotent, and nowhere was she more impotent than when the St. Mary's Trustees make the short-lived lunatic decision to stop the merger. 
It was obvious when the Great Merger Intrigue of 1971 (January ) resulted in the dismissals of Professors Hink emyre and Runde. It was obvious when no one could figure out what the 1972-3 tenure procedure was to be. It was obvious every time a magnifico from the St. Mary's psychology department resigned. It was obvious when the Dean of Students resigned. And it was obvious, painfully ob­vious, when she stood on the steps of O'Laughlin Auditorium and handed low comedy and drivel to 1500 angry and insulted students. 
At no time during this continual display of ineptitude did the Board of Trustees take the obvious step. 
So this time around, if and when the Trustees deem it necessary to appoint an informed, ready, intelligent officer, they ought to appoint as though they were appointing with an eye towards permanence; so that when this president leaves it will be to more music than a soft snicker and a sad sigh. 
Ed Ellis------------­
End of the Line Blues 
The first round of the Battle for the Soul of St. Mary's ended this week with a series of announcements Jindicating,at least on the sur­face, the impending captulation of the good sisters to cosmic inevitability. Although the whole story has not yet been heard, anand more certainly will be heard, it is possible to assume that at least a few days will pass between now and the next major development in the situation. It is useful then to employ hindsight to examine the events of the past two months with an eye toward winners and losers. 
With this knowledge we may perhaps be able to pinpoint where we are to expect merger-unmerger activity in the near furture. 
First, the big winners, practically a non-existent category. It would appear at this point that the Notre Dame corporate instrument has succeeded in deflowering the nunnery across the road. Thus we are forced to give that instrument the Gold Star for achievement, although some ill-kept promises and unduly hard barg<.. ns may yet tarnish the gold leaf. But then again, ravishment is not a pretty business, and perhaps the n~w Notre Dame will live to justify by achievement the dubious nature of its conception. 
The big losers. The purple Heart for heaviest losses must be broken and distributed in many ways. Certainly, the nuns and the Order of the Sisters of the Holy Cross belong here. They will probably lose their college, their lives as teachers, and certainly their "identity," no matter what happens. 
But then nuns are no fun anyway. So lets talk about the girls. 
If Notre Dame should swallow SMC whole with no attempt to ease the transition by approximating a merger rather than a sale of assets, the girls are liable to induce a very bad case of corporate indigestion. Many students have remarked that this campus would likely be an ungodly experience bor both male and female during the first three to five years of co-education. 
An unrehearsed merger is liable to have deleterious effects on the first few classes it involves. These effects will be felt most harshly by the girls, but we must realixe that whatever affects the gilrs will also affect the guys. And so the future student body must get a share of the Purple Heart. 
The unchanged. Most of the current Notre Dame students remain essentially unchanged after the events of the past two months. This is logical, since the concept of coeducation held by the average student on this campus is a statistical one, more concerned with 5 to 1 or 3 to 1 ratios than with life-styles and personalities. 
Given the male-female situation here there is a certain justification for this view, but it does hamper efforts of students like Kathy Barlow to involve Notre Dame in the ballgame. It certainly underlies John Barkett's great reluctance to get involved in the situation on a public level. 
While the students of the future have a great stake in the outcome of the merger-assimilation, thecurrent students do not, simply because they often don't have any stake in the women at SMC. 
Now the preceding analysis concerns Itseu soJeiy with the effects of the co-education hassle itself. However, another factor enters the picture as soon as one realizes how the situation became such a sur­prise to everyone. Put simply, no one but a few administrators and the members of the Board of Trustees has had any information what­soever onlthe subject of the merger. Security is reminiscent of the Pentagon. 
At SMC, this state of affairs makes a mockery of the much-vaunted community government. 
The SMC Student Procedural Manual states , in part, " ... all members of the College community participate in the government of the College in accordance with the procedural manual." 
Violation of thi:> principle is obvious. 
At Notre Dame, no such clear cut principle exists, but total disregard of student and faculty opinion and interest in the matter would indicate that Notre Dame administrators see the Student Life Council and the Student Mfairs Committee of the Board of Trustees as nothing more than a sop to the rabble. 
University President Rev. Tehodore M. Hesburgh is fond of saying that while students are here for aonly a few years, administrators are here for har longer and must live tomorrow with the decisions of today. True. 
But the Student Body will be here longer than any administrator, and without students, the entire University would self-destruct. The students should be informed and consulted. The faculty should be informed and consulted. 
In short, then, the consumption of St. Mary's College would appear imminent. Sr. Alma is on her way out. Several members of the SMC Board were rumored to have threatened resignation if the merger didn't go through. The nuns are about to lose. Big. 
The silent Notre Dame student body must now consider the con­sequences of the events of te last two months , along with the months to come, And the Notre Dame administrators must hope that some of the un-Christian, unconscionable and unnatural methods apparently used by both administrations in the merger negotiations does not rouse rabble to an undue degree. 
The Staff Nite Editor: Joe Abell Sporting Editor: Jim Donaldson Ass't Nite Editor: Maria Gallagher Features Editor (in his debut): Marty Miller Wanderers and Friends: T.C., John Downey, Ann McCarry, Tom Housemother: The Hawk (right, glen?) Bornholt, Sue Prendergast, Jim E. Brogan, Mike Baum, Orlando l.who's been sleeping where? Whateber that neme is, the chinaman, Jack Kelly, Patty (on the beard-stroking courtesy of timothy charles treanor phone, Jerry Lutkus (without his cookies), Robert F. Griffin, "Lefty" 2. beard-stroking courtesy of timothy charles treanor Ruschmann, Ed Ellis (da muddeah), the Gipper, Alfred E. Neuman 3. be watching sunday for the huddle five! (our inspiration). 4.not for love, not for money, just for insanity ... Typists (no NC, Dan(: Helen Smudski, Debbie Gras S. your books are in the office, ann Honorary Nite Controllers: (with pay): John Abowd, Jim McDermott 6.not until sunday? 


Friday, January 21, 1972 THE OBSERVER. ~ages 
Maria Gallagher 


Reflections on Home 
Welcome home, stranger. 
Welcome home, to find your mother a little heavier, your father a little grayer, your friends a little more distant, your room clean--a strange place. 
Welcome home, to food you're not afraid to look at or eat, to bigger rooms, a more comfortable bed and a month to use it, to a dog that ·doesn't quite recognize you, to a brother or sister 10 times more irritable than the most trying roommate. 
Welcome home to antagonism toward long hair, criticism of your dress, the inevitable questions about everything from the weather to your courses to your sex life, to an HTH who (so that's why she n£>ver wrote) got married sometime after you left. 
Welcome home, to a Christmas somehow less magic than those of your childhood, to church for the first time in four months, to Aunt Elsie's (ughlloving kisses and smothering hugs, to a four week str£>tch of actually missing the place you couldn't wait to leave. 
Wdcorne home, to a new year that looked no different than the old ones, that 
Gene ,\1olinelli 
somehow won't quit begin until you get back to du Lac, that brings a myriad of forms holding distant promises of summer ..' 
.

employment and endless hours of 
:-­

reminiscing with old friends. 
Welcome home, till you find your phone bill running up, to speculation whether your late sleeping habits are also prac­ticed at school, to curfews, to snide remarks about your indolence or outright solicitations to "do some work for a change," till your grades come in. 
Welcome home, for about two weeks. Somehow things are dying around you, or maybe you're just getting older. Somehow this isn't your world anymore; you don't quite belong here. You strain at the fetters of a captor past, and it makes you anxious, in the many hours you have for just thinking, for that final break--and also frightens you. 
But, for the moment, welcome back to duLac, to nest among the branches of the St. Joe. Welcome back to headaches and all-nighters and putdowns and books and blizzards. Security, yet laced with an independence of sorts that you've become comfortable with. Welcome home. 




Several years •1n a day of the I ife of George 
(iporge got up with the sun that Thur­sday, which was not usual, not because there was something unusual about Thursday but rather because there was something unusual about the sun; and that was because it was shining right into his face, seering his eyes and drying out his lips. He instinctively and skillfully fell out of bed to avoid the harsh onslaught of sun h£>ms, cursing fluently at the darn little things that caused him to fall out of bed and hurt his elbow (among other less printable anatomic structures). So he dimbed to his feet, rubbing his elbows (as w£>11 as the other less printable anatomic structures l trying to figure out what freak of nature had caused him to be disturbed at this ungodly hour. Just look at the dock----God, it was before noon! 
II£> looked over where his roommate lay slcPping in the shade of his wardrobe and knew what the problem was. Henry had forgotten to close the shades when he went to bed last night. Stupid jerk! He had a good mind to kick Henry in the head. And 
h<• might have had he been able to find where he had left his boots the night before, but everything seemed strange, kind of unfamiliar-like he knew about <'verything but couldn't remember what it was that he knew. At any rate, forced to go without his shoes he crept over to where his roommate lay and gently rammed his good Plbow into Henry's face. 
With one of the most soul-rending yelps (;t•orge had ever heard, his roomate jumped out of bed, knocked himself un­conscious on the ceiling and fell limply to th£> floor. George was just smiling satisfactorily and wiping the blood from his elbow when he stopped in alarm. The battered face of the limp body on the floor was not Henry's! He had inadvertantly mangled a complete stranger! He eollapsed on the bed, horrified by his deed, wringing his hands and gnashing his teeth, not knowing what to do. 
Finally, after what seemed like hours (mostly because it was hours), the fellow r£>gained consciousness. George, trying to show there were no hard feelings, spoke first and a bit nervously: 
"lli there! What's your major? What do you think about this week's game? Sorry about your face. I'll bet your mother was sorry about your face too---ha, ha---a little humor there. Why don't you see a doctor about straightening your nose, or maybe it would be better to see a shrink about straight£>ning your head---ha, ha ..." 
Nothin. George had used his best lines 
and they hadn't cased the situation. The kid just stood there staring at him, which made George very uncomfortable. Meekly he tried once more. 

"Well uh ... Nice weather we've been having." 
Finally it occured to George that he wanted to know who this person was. He got off the defensive and began the attack. 
"Who are you anyhow?" 
The look of surprise that shot out at George from beneath the crusted blood on the kid's face took him off guard. 
Hurmmmphh", he thought, "He acts as if I should know." 
Apparently George was very good at r£>ading looks from beneath crusted blood because the kid said with a flip of his wrist and a bat of his black and blue eye, 
"Silly boy, I'm your roommate." 
"What" he said, "You're not my roommate! Henry's my roommate! Where's Henry? I want Henry. I ain't roomin' with no queers. You get out of here and get Henry back." George was screaming by now. 
" Honest", pouted the kid, "I am your roommate ... I am .. I am." 
"We'll see about that", said George as he stormed out of the room, "I'm going to see the rector and we'll see about that". 
Halfway down the hall George stopped, looked down and thought for a moment. Then he slipped back into his room un­noticed by the sobbing boy and put on some clothes. 
In the rector's office he said, 
"I want my old roommate back you 
creepy priest." 

"I'm no longer a priest", said ex-Father 
Niceguy, "and as for your old roommate, 
I'm sure you remember that he died." 
"What! Henry dead! I can't believe it. 
(What do you mean you'r£> not a priest, you 
With no tears in his eyes the rector went on: 
"Oh yes, the end was quite sudden though not unexpected. According to the rPport that I have here, he met his demise (that is, he died) during a Russian test at the end of his sophomore year. Apparently he lost his footing on a soft sign and got clobbered from the rear by a past per­fective participle. (I assure you that I am no longer a priest. I now have a wife and a darling young boy in the suburbs. I commute to work from Elkhart in my flashy new volkswagonl." 
It took a while for it to reach him but George finally realized the strange thing Pather cxNiceguy had said. He quickly jumped on it. 
"What do you mean at the end of his sophomore year ?The year doesn't end for another six months. <Commute! You couldn't be a rector unless you lived here; ther's no such thing as a commuting rector.)'' 
"My, my, young man, the end of your sophomore year was six months ago. Of I wish it so. there is such a thing. According to the new rules of the university I can do anything I want so long as I really and truely believe it is right for me)" returned no Father Niceguy. 
"You bastard", said George," You're 

trying to confuse me. I'm only a sophomore Aunt Matilda, Aunt Jemima, Auntie Em ." 
when I went to bed last night and I'm a sophomore now. (what do you mean? The university would never adopt rules like those.)" 
"Listen here, potatoe face", softly spoke Father not-so Nic<'guy, "You're a junior and it is about time that you started acting like one. <Of course the university would, in light of the recent relaxed morality set down by the Pope. Everyone must decide 
were a priest yesterday)", said George. what is good for himself, and any attempts with a groan as he slumped into a chair at establishingan objective morality will be lanwnting the passing of ll<'nry and with md by excommunication. l" him a car for his heavy date tomorrow. "I can S<'E' talking to you isn't getting me anywhere", sneered George at not-so ­Father Niceguy"I'm gonna kick that guy outta my room and nobody's gonna stop me. (All this overnight? l" 
"Whatever you wish," smiled Mr. Niceguy," (Times are changing; where have you been?)". 
Completely flabbergasted George reached for the door. 
"One more thing", interjected the nice guy, "Are your parents coming up for graduation?" 
"Why?" asked George suspiciously. 
"Well because it is tomorrow and I have to make arrangements for them if they will be here." 
"You're crazy", George screamed,You, the nut in my room, the Pope, your wife and your kid are crazy. You're all out of your squirming minds!" 
"My wife? Young man, it is extremely indiscreet of you to mention this. My wife and I have been divorced for several months now---she took everything: the house in Elkhart, the volkswagon, the little brat ..." 
George ran from the room fuming-­boiling mad---he really felt like belting somebody. He bounded up to the third floor and went to his room. He opened the door. The place was full of strange old ladies playing bingo. They turned and stared at him; he stared back for a long minute, then jerked back into the hall slamming the door shut. He ran down the stairs yelling that someone had doublecrossed him,---had stolen his room right from under his nose. He careened into the lobby and ran right into ... his parents! 
"Mom ... Dad ... what ...? " "Congratulations son, we were so proud of you." 
"What? Who? Where? ..." 
"So son, what are you going to do with your life? You've decided on a career of course. By the way, your aunts are here: 
''But ..." 
"Oh George, I hope you've thought about settling down with a nice girl and raising a family ... four children is good ..." 
"No! No!" cried George slapping his hands over his ears and clenching his eyes, "Stop!! Go away!! I'm not ready for all this yet!!" 
"That's okay, we'll get you ready", said the man with the crewcut who had come up lwhind him, as he handed George a rifle and flashed his sergeant's stripes, "We'll gPt you good and ready". 

Page 6_ 
_T._}{_~~9_B_~~-R_V_~~R~--~==~~=====-===·-=-=--~=-==~-~=Fr=id=a=y=,J=a=n=ua=r~y=21=,:=1972 
Nader's answer 





PIRG: Solving problems 
by Bob Higgins 
Part I of 2 J'flrts 

The Public Interest Research Group <PIRG) is originally a brainchild of Ralph Nader, created in answer to student queries as to how they might effectively work to solve problems facing all citizens and work in research for the bet­terment of the public interest. 
The idea is simple. Students in state are asked to assess themselves $1.50 a semester and thus generate about $200,000 to $300,000 for an annual budget. The money is used to hire a professional staff (controlled by a statewide representation of students ) comprised of lawyers, environmental and social scientists and the like who would direct students in research projects. The projects will deal with matters of pollution, con­sumerism, racism and sexism, corporate accountability and occupational health and safety. 
Students will receive academic credit for thir research work in the field, and the professionals will carry out the work through vacations, exams and other periods when student activism is usually low. 
The PIRG idea was first put into practice in Oregon and Minnesota in September of 1970. Following a Nader sppech at the Minneapolis campus, the students of the University of Minnesota petitioned their fellow students, requesting permission to institute a $3.00 per year tax to help fund a PIRG. Within two weeks 26,000 of the 44,000 students had signed the petitions and the Minnesota Public Interest Research Group <MPIRG) was born. 
MPIRG who, according to one Notre Dame PIRG coordinator, "is about a year ahead of In­diana," has now hired a staff of professionals and has begun to work on projects. 

RoGERS Optical 
ROGER ATWELL -OWNER 
• TwoGiont Stores 
• Just Minutes Away 

• 
Downtown Chicago 

• 
Ooen Eves. 'Tii9-Sun. 'TitS 


MORRIE MAGES SPORTS 
620 N. LA SALLE 609 N. LA SALLE 
Between Ohio &. Ontario Entrance 6o Exit To All X-Way5 
WITH THIS AD WE WILL PAY YOU UP TOSS FOil 


Ra 1 h Nader, the one who started ' _ P 
•t all. 

Indiana's Public Interest Research Group (lnPIRG) had its beginning at the University of Indiana in Bloomington. Brad Baker and Bruce Coles, both students in a "Naderism for Every Man" course discovered the idea and began to study the Minnesota and Oregon models. 
A convention held by Min­nesota's group introduced the PIRG concept to Notre Dame. Hundreds of midwestern schools were invited to meet in Min­neapolis in September to learn 
OBSERVER INSIGHT 
how to begin a PIRG in their own state. Notre Dame sent a representative and the organization has been growing ever since. 
Headed by a group including grad student John Bachman and undergrads Bill Rahner, Dave Kusek, Pete Homer, Gerry Nagel and Bob Carbone, the Notre Dame chapter of InPIRG is preparing to initiate a large­scale publicity drive aimed at acquainting the Notre Dame-St. Mary's community with the InPIRG concept. 
In recent months, InPIRG has been busily forming a workable organization on the two cam­puses. After receiving a $350 grant from Student Government in October, the began to set 


HOURS: MON -TUES -THUR -FRI 9 AM 5:30PM WED -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON 
COMPLETE SPilCTACLE 
SERVICE ALL EYE OR.'S PRESCRIPTIONS HONOREr 
Calf 

289-7809 

• 
Yamaha ISkis • Poles 

• 
Tyrolia 55AOO Bindings 

• 
Plastic: ruckle Boots 



$9 9 
• Installation Regular $112 ......... . 
BADGER SKI PKC. 
• 
Fischer 707 Class Skis • Poles 

• 
Marker-Eiastomat Binding 

• 
Plaslic Buckle Boots 


• lnshllation $16 
Regular S152.......... 
HOOSIER SKI PKC. 
• 
Volkl Sapporo Skis 

• 
look/Nevada Bindings 

• 
Carmon! Comp. Boots 

• 
Poles 

• 
Installation 


$2 4 9 
Regular S353 ....... . 
"WoriJ' s Largest Selection" 
up contacts in individual dorms. 
Eighteen of the twenty Notre 
Dame residence halls currently 
have representatives and many 
of them are further organized on 
a floor basis. Three dorms at St. 
Mary's are presently 
represented. 
Other PIRG activities in the first semester included speaking tours, which Bachman noted "were well received in several dorms," solicitation of assistance and donations from interested 1fac_ulty, and a benefit folk concert 
which netted $30. 
The Notre Dame chapter of 
InPIRG has also been very active 
on the state level. Beside helping 
Indiana University of South Bend 
with its organizational problems, 
Bachman pointed out that "Our 
people have attended numerous 
state meetings regarding 
organization and were in­
sturmental in preparing the 
Statewide Petitioner's Manual~' 
..Part two will be printed 
Monday will go into the InPIRG 
petition and fund drives. 



Steve 
Faye Me Queen 
Dunaway 

n 




e ThomasCrownAffair 
Friday Saturday Sunday 7:00 9:00 11:00 Knights of Columbus Members Free Nonmembers $1.00 
COMING ATTRACTIONS FOR FEB. Davey Crockett, King of the Wild Frontier The Wild Bunch 



-I I 
I 

Friday, January 21, 1972 
----·---------__ THE OBSERVER. 


Duquesne strUggles 
by E.J. Kinkopf '72 pl<'tely outscored the Duquesne Aet ually, the Irish forced team. The flashy junior did Duquesne into the type of game
It was close, and it was ex­ev<'rything but toss the hall up for they wanted them to play. Theyeiting, but in the l'nd it was just 
the tip-off. forced the Dukes to run, breaking thl' same old story, as the Irish 
up that
cagers came out on the short end lie scored, 21 points, he the offensive patterns of the scorl' again in last night's rebounded, 16 rebounds usually revolve around the 6-9 Billingly. hf'ad-to-head with the 6-9
114-79 loss to Duquesne. And the press gave the Dukes 
Billingy, and he put on the best
It wasn't as if Digger's boys plenty of running room, too much were terribly outclassed nor were show of basketball moves since in fact, and the high number of they really outplayed. They just that other number 34 graduated uncontested lay-ups they hit in 
ran out of gas. last y<'ar. two-on-one situations accounts 
The Irish had the Dukes on the But it just wasn't enough. The for their high shooting per­ropl's with 4:14 left in the game Dukes, who came into the game centage from the floor. wht'n John Egart converted a with four men scoring in double 
Both teams were about even in
stl'al by Willie Townsend into a figures left with the same four the turnover department, thebucket. and pulled the Irish rl'gistered in the same category. 
Dukes with 22 and the Irish withwithin one, 74-73. But they failed 
23.
Jack Wojdowski scored 12to land the knockout punch. 
points, Ruben Montanez hit for But, amazingly enough, and aThe Dukes roared back, rattled 13, Darnell Roebuck dropped in good indication of the scrappyoff 8 points to ND's two in the next 18, and Billingy who also grabbed game the ND cagers played, wasthree and a half minutes, and that 15 rebounds took game honors the edge they held in rebounds,was the ball game. 
with 29 points. 57-41. Tom O'Mara turned in another 
The Irish didn't have that kind Duquesne coach "Red"whale of a game. The grey-haired of firepower backing up O'Mara, Manning was satisfied with his<iael dropped in 22 points, and Novak and Townsend. 
team's play. "Anytime you winspearheaded the Irish press. 
The Dukes hit on 52 percent of on the road you have to be happy 
<;ary Novak chipped in with 16, 
and 16 rebounds. But if anyone their shots from the floor, while with the performance." stole the show from Duquesne's 6-the Irish converted only 40 When asked about the press, 9 Lionel Billingy it was Willie percent. And from the charity the coach said, "The press hurt 
stripe it was more of the same.
Townsend. us a couple of times, but I think 
. The Dukes converted 75 percent ­
we stayed pretty calm and
I~ they_ ~warded pomts for of their foul shots, while the Irish Willie Townsend lays one in for the
handled it well. We were lookinghustle, Wllhe would have com-dropped in only 50 percent. 
for it, and we expected Notre The Irisil scored first in the Townsend bucket with 10:22 leftJim Donaldson =====;;:=:z======================:========================================================== Dame to try and spread us out wild and wooly, fairly officiated in the first half. 
with it. They really did force us affair when Tom O'Mara dropped The Dukes moved back in front out of our game plan which was to one in at 19:20. But the Dukes. one minute and forty-two seconds go to Billingy. But we did run scored seven points in a row and before the half on a bucket by well, and when we did set up we weren't headed until the Irish Billingy, and held onto the lead
The Irish Eye 
did what we wanted to." grabbed the lead on a Willie for the rest of the game. 
::=:=:=:=:=:=:=============================:=:=:=:=====:=:=:=:::=:=:==================================:::::=:============:fee Chips 

leers at Minnesota in key sen·es 
To say that the Irish hockey team's two-game series with Minnesota 
Lefty Smith is going to try a Association series with Min­The Gophers --like the Irish -­this weekend is an important one is like saying that it gets cold in new psychological gimmick with nesota but for Smith and at least would like to sweep the series.
South Bend in the wintertime. Friday and Saturday's games with the his Notre Dame hockey team and l'ight players it will be home. Minnesota occupies the WCHAGophers, worth four points in the WCHA standings, are BIG ones for 
try to convince them they're Smith, prior to arriving at basement with a 3-11 record-­Notre Dame. 
going "home" for the weekend Notre Dame, coached in the following a double Joss at home to "The Minnesota series is extermely important to us," coach series. Minneapolis-St. Paul area <South North Dakota --and is 4-14 "Lefty" Smith commented yesterday. "It could be the most im­The Irish icers actually travel St. Paull and he has recruited overall. Winger Dean Blais leads portant series we'll play this year." to Minneapolis for an important heavily from the Twin Cities. the Gophers in scoring with 19 The Irish,5-7 in the WCHA and 9-9 overall, have won just one of their Wl'stern Collegiate Hockey And Smith likes the idea that points. last six games and have slipped to eighth place in the standings. Part his team will have some type of a of Notre Dame's problem has been an overahundance of road games. homecoming since his team has
WCHA Minor sports 
The Irish have played their last half dozen league hames away from played on home ice only once home and in the WCHA, as in most hockey circuits, highly vocal since Nov. 26-27 --a 5-4 overtime partisan crowds have a way of inspiriing their heroes and influencing win over Cornell last Monday. slate full 


standings
the officials. 
Smith also likes the thought of 
But, although the Irish would hardly speake highly of traveling, Notre Dame's swimming,
L l'ts. no more games in the state of 
their major problem has heen a lack of consistency, rather than wrestling and fencing teams will
Wisconsin :l :H Michigan since the Irish finished 
hostile crowds. On occassion, the Irish have played first rate hockey, Minn. -Duluth \) 7 with a 0-6 record following 8-2 and be active on the road this the kind they're capable of playing. They showed their talent in D<'nver 9 5 22 24 4-1 losses at Michigan State last weekend. winning two games at Madison Square Garden: enroute to annexing The Irish wrestlers, with a
Colorado 7 II 20 weekend. 
the ECAC Holiday tournament and turned in a fine performance record five straight victories,
North Dakota 7 7 IR Notre Dame is now 9-9 overall
while handing eastern power Cornell a 5-4 overtime setback. Although Michigan Tech (j 7 Ill meet Knox College Friday night
and 5-7 against WCHA teams -­and powerful Dnke in Des
the Irish look great at times, they've played some poor games too, as Michigan State 7 
!l 18 

just good enough for eight place 
evidenced by a 9-6 loss to Dartmouthand an 8-2 thumping at the hands NOTHE DAME 5 Moines on Saturday Fresh­of Michigan State. Michigan 7 7 10 14 man heavyeight Mike Fanning
with 14 title points. But the first ever meeting with the Gophers on anchors the Irish with a perfect 8­
"Lack of consistency is very much a problem with us," Smith Minnesota II (j Friday and Saturday in Williams o record --all via the pin route.
remarked. "We have to start recognizing the importance of every Each WCHA club will play Arena (8 p.m., C.S.T.) is worth NO's swimmers, 2-1 overall 
game. We can't afford a letdown. This is a common thing with a every other team in the league 
eight points. following a win at Western
young club because they haven't learned to look at things in the proper this year but they will meet some Sophomore ace Ian Williams, Michigan !57-56) and a loss atperspective. After a couple of good games at Colorado two weeks ago, teams four times and others, only out for the past three games with Northwestern (78-35) last we figured we were off and running but Michigan State shocked us twice. There will be eight points a mouth injury, will return for the weekend, face Kings Collegeback into reality. We've got to realize that everybody in this league available in each series, a total of Minnesota series. Williams, Saturday at Wilkes-Barre, Pa.
7? in the season. When one club
comes after you." 
along with John Noble and Eddie The Irish fencers, idle for the
plays another only twice, each
Sizing up his club's performance during the first half of the year, game is worth four points. When Bumbacco, have 31 points while past five weeks, meet Cornell and coach Smith said, "Offensively, we've done a fine job, with the ex­
teams meet four times, each Paul Regan leads the team with Tri-State College at Angola,ception of last weekend, and Dick (Tomasoni) has been outstanding in game is worth just two points. 19 goals and 33 points. Indiana, Friday.
goal. Our defense has been inconsistent. They tend to be too offensive minded at times. It's sure bet that the Gophers will be "coming after" Notre Dame 

Frosh split; play at home Saturday
this weekend. This series is just as imprtant to Minnesota as it is to the Irish. The Gophers are mired in last place with a 3-11 record in the by .Joe Passiatore Irish on top to stay. In the second The officials weren't hesitant WCHA and have managed to garner only six of 32 possible title points. Elusive Gary Brokaw worked half it was Brokaw's strength about calling fouls and this was to If they let eight more points slip by this weekend, they can forget about free for :!9 points last night as the inside that hurt Bethel the most. Bethel's advantage as they made 
making the plays. baby Irish drubbed Bethel At the outset, he tipped in missed 25 of :!7 free throws as compared The Irish have collected 14 of a possible 32 title points this season Colll'ge, 109-91. Bedford Bruno shots on successive plays and, by to Notre Dame's 13 of 23. and, despite their eighth place standing, are right in the thick of the and guard Dwight Clay aided the time he made a tantastic, one­The Leprechauns were coming battle for playoff positions. Third place Denver has 22 title points, a Brokaw's personal assault on the handl'd fade-away shot from off an 86-80 setback suffered to total the Irish could match with a pair of victories over the Gophers. Ikthl'l defense with 21 and 19 about seven feet in front of the Marquette the previous evening. Notre Dame's schedule in the weeks ahead chould give them a points respectively. Bruno was basket at 11:11, he had given In that game Notre Dame chance to move up among the league leaders. Mter the Minnesota <'specially effective in the first Notre Dame sufficient breathing couldn't hold an early 10-1 lead series the Irish will play eight of their last 12 games on home ice, half when he totaled fifteen points room, 81-62. and fl'll prey to Marquette's 57 where they have lost but once in five outings. Those final 12 games are to boost the Leprechauns to a 48-Dwight Clay's first appearance pl'rcPnt shooting from the floor. worth 32 points to the Irish, 20 of which will be contested on home ice. 
43 advantage. After intermission at thl' Convocation Center was an Four players wl're in double it was all Brokaw, however. as imprl'ssive one and he com­figures for Notre Dame: Brokaw,
The Irish will have their work cut out for them during the second the <i':l'' guard went on a 28 point pl<'nwntPd Brokaw well in the 21; Clay, 14; Tom Varga, who
half of league play, however. Looking ahead, the Irish list four games against the league leading Wisconsin Badgers, a pair on home ice with rampage in the second half. bal'kcourt. forcing Bethel into was moved to a forward position Minnesota-Duluth, currently in sicond place, two at Denver and two Bdhel proved to be a scrappy numerous turnovers, and going had 15; and Frank Allocco 
home ice encounters with both Michigan and Michigan State. opporwnt in the early going and to the basket wdl. Notre Dame contributl'd 10 points in the losing But, this weekend, the Gophers will be the sole object of interest for NotrP Dame was unable to open shot 50 pPrcent from the field, pffort. the Irish skaters. The return of Ian Williams and John Campbell, both up a substantial lead. The score 11ith Bruno clicking at a 10 for 12 The frPshmen will be looking to 
hampered by injuries recently, enhances Irish hopes for a sweep but was Ii<•d. :m-:-!9, at 2: II of the first pace. Brokaw was 16 out of 26 make it back to back wins in their 1wriod wlwn Brokaw hit a jumper ganw against Ball State Saturday 
the club still won't be at full strength because frosh winger D'Arcy from tlw fiPid and 7 of 9 from the 
from tlw top of the kPy to put fhf' at :l::lo in thl' ACC.
KC'atin~ is currently sidelined by academic difficulties. t•harity stripe. 
Page 8 
,..............,_,,............ Happenings 
Busses on schedule ... 

Full shuttle bus service will resume on Monday, January 24, according to Tim Poley, coor­dinator of the service. 
The current delays in the shuttles has been caused by temporary scheduling dif­ficulties, Poley explained. 
Starting Monday, four buses will be used on Mondays, Wed­nesdays, and Fridays, and three buses on Tuesdays and Thur­sdays. The express bus system employed last semester will be retained. · 
According to Poley, the buses 1 will make the travel between the two campuses in ten minutes, down from the 15 minutes allowed last semester. He said that the change was made after stuies and timings of the buses in operation last semester. Poley added that: "The students will find this way a little bit better." 
-I 

This was disputed by one of the drivers on the run. He alledged that the ten-minute run would be impossible. According to the dnver, highway crossing and slow-leading students would make the new timing unrealistic. 
Film Studies offered ... 

The University of Notre Dame will offer a selection of new courses in film studies during the summer session beginning June 26 and ending August 10, ac­cording to an announcement by Edward Fischer, director of the program. 
A part of the communication arts department, the new courses will include Film Masters with 
Senior Fred G. Christ­manlll, died in a Colorado auto accident on December 
19. Christman, 22, was a senior in the College of Business Administration. 
Originally from Terre Haute, Indiana, Christman resided off-campus at 707 West Colfax in South Bend. 
-·­


Dr. Donald Costello discussing the techniques of Fellini, An­tonioni, Bergman and Pesnais. Frederick W. Syburg, a director with the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's Theater, will present Films From Plays, an examination of productions that have been on both stage and 
screen, including "Long Day's Journey Into Night," "Hamlet," 
"Miss Julie," and "Death of a Salesman." 
Three production courses to be offered during the summer session include Film Making by James Baxter, Educational Television by Reginald Bain, and Still Photography by Richard Stevens. 
Courses from last summer that 
will be repeated include Verbal 
Communications, Elizabeth 
Christman; Visual Com­
munication, Edward Fischer; 
and Modern Fiction, James 
Walton. 
Co-ex Tix available hete ... 
Co-ex dining director Gary Caruso announced yesterday that co-ex dining tickets will now be available at the Student Union office. The tickets can be procurred there at no more than two per student. 
Cultural events scheduled 
Duke Ellngton and Saul Bellow will highlight the Spring 1972 Student Union calander, Cultural Arts Commissioner Bob Brink­man revealed yesterday. Saul Bellow will speak in Stephan Center on February 15 while Duke Ellington will appear in concert April 6 as part of the Performing Arts Series. 
Beginning February 16, the Performing Arts Series will host a five-segment film series en­titled "Museum Without Walls." Each performance will be a two hour segment featuring famous art pieces. They will be shown on February 6 and 24, March 1 and 8 and an undetermined date in April. The Performing, Arts Series will also include a per-
People & Song 
this Friday  presents  Alumni Lounge  
Chris and Jim  
Butch Ward  
. Refreshments  plus more  
9 -2 am  25c Admission  

Everyvne~~~e~l~co~m=-e________~ 
Take a Refresher Course 1n Kidstyle as a HEAD START Volunteer 
• LOVE 


Call Tom Patton 
2836984 
A Service of the Student Govt. 
Bll/411 
.auto/sf!:' 
52148 U.S. 31 N. 
South Bend · 
Phone 272-2854 






