


Burtchaell discusses faculty problems 

Expected high 45. Could mean b-ball behind Gilbert's. 


Vol. VI, No. 84 
Cunningham, Voll emphasize social 
Cunningham: "better social conditions ... 
Inside . .. 

by T.C. Treanor Observer Assistant Editor 
Juniors Mike Cunningham and John Voll last night became the ninth candidates for Notre Dame Student Body President and Vice-President. 
Cunningham, who comes from Park Forest, Illinois, and Voll, a South Bend native, launched their campaign from their headquarters at 281 Dillon by promising to "better the social situation at Notre Dame." 
In announcing, Cunningham contended that "those issues which other candidates have labeled 'major' issues are all tied up in dollars and cents. Students can effect the small and the concrete." 
Accordingly, Cunningham and Voll promised to concentrate their campaign on proposed Student Union social activities. "You can have all the girls you want at this University," Voll said, "but if you can't have anything to do with them it won't work." 
Cunningham's "concrete proposals" include: ---turning the basement of La Fortune Student Center into a "student nightclub." 
"It has to be made attractive," Cunningham said. ---"Labeling" dances; giving specific connections to the Student Union dances. 
"We could have a Muscle Beach party on the St. Joe's Beach," Voll suggested, "with Beach Boys 
---a "Boy-Girl splash party" at the Rockne Memorial Building. 
"We would definitely have to go through channels to get that," Cunningham said, "but I think we could get it." 
---a poll conducted by the Ombudsman to find out what issues are important to the student body. 
"Instead of demanding from the administration," Cunningham said, "we have to construct something ourselves." 
"We have to get students out of the hall," Voll agreed, "the Notre Dame community mostly lacks fun." 
"Many of our drug and drinking problems are due to the social situation," he continued. Cunningham, though, was quick to assure that "noway will we neglect other issues." 
He contended that the contact between the SBP and the student body should be "much more per­sonal, friendly, and informal," than it is now. 
He suggested that the president make "better use of campus media" to inform the student body of student government actions. He also said that he would release the result of the aforementioned Ombudsman's poll to the Observer. 
Cunningham promised to conduct a campaign that would be consistent with "actions, not words," but said he would retain more specific information until a later time. 
Cunningham's campaign will be co-managed by Dick Ryan and Mike Murphy. Murphy last year ran for Student Body Vice-President with Rich Sher­man, who finished fourth out of seven candidates last year. 
Wednesday, February 23, 1972 


announce; situation 
China 
Addresses Notre Dame AAUP 
by Don Ruane Campus Editor 

Communication between administrators and faculty gradually emerged as a discussion base for faculty and Provost James T. Burtchaell Tuesday night. 
Fr. Burtchaell as guest of the AAUP chapter at 
N_otre ~arne answered qu~stions after explaining 
v1ewpomts on tenure, appomtment, and promotions 
at a meeting in the Faculty Club. 
Using his comments to clarify an October 1, 1971 l('tter to all deans and department chairmen, which was published in Notre Dame Report 2, tl.e Provost consistently emphasized his request that each d<'partment submit plans to establish a set number of faculty positions providing for maintainance of the University tenure quota of no more than two­third. and no less than one-half of the regular faculty 
Explains Letter 

In explaining his convictions behind the letter, Fr. 
Rurtchaell claimed the quota system is the best 
way. to his knowledge, of providing flexibility and 
prev~!lting Notre Dame from entering a 
"position where it has to refuse appointments." 
Several departments now exceed the two-thirds limit, and won't be able to hire for the next 10 to 15 years. I<'actors of this situation, according to the Provost include a young average age of faculty; a lower attrition rate; shifting and increasing student ('nrollments, and a resulting impression that the enrollment patterns and departmental popularity would continue indefinitely. 
"We should allow ourselves some freedom to 
hire," Fr. Burtchaell added. 
Fr. Burtchaell conceded that the quota system established in the letter, "will create difficulties that even I can't anticipate, "and that some problems may not appear for years. 
llowever. the Provost said he would consider alternatives, "I don't think I have that much of an ('go investment in it that I won't back off from it." 
Following Fr. Burtchaell's comments the meeting was opened to questions and com~ents from the nearly 200 faculty in the hazy, smoke filled room. The discussion was divided among the quota system. criteria and mechanics of appointments nnd communications. 
During this session the faculty challenged present communication Jines with the administration. Their eomments questioned the administrators' ability to <'Valuate personnel recommendations from their removed position, why explanations are rarely if <'ver given for administrative decisions in this area, the faculty role.. in long term academic planning, and how the quota system may hurt the quality of the Notre Dame faculty. 
The following points were raised about the quota system: 
-Will qualified persons be refused tenure because of the system? Fr. Burtchaell replied that "qualifications for promotions <which must ac­company tenurel are very relative things", which vary. between schools, time, and departmentally. The decisions, according to the Provost, depends on the definition of qualifications. 
-Will the system interfere with recruitment and quality of personnel? According to the Provost, "The deleterious effect is misconstrued." He reiterated that departments should submit plans that do not reflect indefinite expansion or continued student popularity. 
Criteria and Mt>chanics 

These points were raised about criteria and mechanics of promotion. -Does the "academic market" and University 
financial situation influence a decision? Fr. Burt­chaell replied that it is Notre Dame's purpose to provide the best education, and that it is Notre Dnme's responsibility to consider these factors in nddition to personal competence. Noting that it does not provide a "license" to disregard an applicant's record. he said it is unrealistic "to pretend these factors do not exist." 
-Fr. Burtchaell 's ability to evaluate personnel from his removed position? This is not as serious as it seems, according to the Provost, because the deans have an impressive ability for evaluation and advising and because the Provost claims to study the departments as thoroughly as a professor studies his field. 
He added that to leave the final decision to a faculty board is not a good process, much the same as leaving the entire process in the hands of the administration is not good. 
Methods used in faculty hiring and evaluating were explained by the Provost. Although many people think publication is the sine qua non of ap­pointments, Fr. Burtchaell refuted this idea stating, "People are appointed and paid here to teach our students." 
Regarding evaluation, the student course Burtchaell: "some freedom to hire ... evaluation received a strong endorsement from the 
music and things like that." ---bringing a ·•country-fair type Notre Dame. ---more "weekends like Mardi Tostal." ---a "Gay nineties night." 
carnival" to Gras and An 
Provost. who claimed, "We'd be pig-headed to deride the student evaluation." lie added that it should be given serious con­sideration, but that it should not be "canonized." 
A third avenue to decision in hiring and evaluation is the report from a departmental committe. Fr. Rurtchaell has requested minutes from these committee meeting instead of a simple yes or no, so that the administration will be aware of rifts on serious matters. 
Communications 

Most comments on communications came from the faculty. They urged new channels which would encourage confidence and understanding among ndministrators and faculty. 
Fr. Burtchaell agreed that it is a difficult situation if "the University keeps its cards close to its chest." Throughout the evening he emphasized that much of the communication with the faculty should flow through their department head. 
"If not, I don't  see  how  he could go home  
tonight." the Provost co ncluded.  
'I  

~---~----­
THE OBSERVER Wednesday, February 23, 1972
~P=a~~~2~~~~~~==============~~ ---~~~~~--~------------------------~--------­
1!172 The New York Times
-world 

briefs 
Pt>king -The Nixon's accompanied by Mrs. Mao Tse-Tung, attended a ballet performance that featured the triumph of the red banners of the revolution over the black running dogs of capitalism and the nationalist Chinese. At the end, as American and Chinese leaders applauded the dancers and they applauded the audience, one observer was let to wonder which was the real audience. 
t\ldt>t'shot. Endland-An explosion in an officer's mess at a military base in England killed seven persons, including five women and a Roman Catholic chaplain. A spokesman for the Irish Republican Army said in Dublin that his organization was responsible for the blast. He also aid that the bombing was in retaliation for the 13 persons killed in Londonderry by 'British soldiers. 
Washington-A filibuster staged by southern Senators was broken after five weeks of debate and a bill giving the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission power to move against job discrimination through the Federal Courts was overwhelmingly approved. The measure now goes to the House, which passed a similar bill last year. 
Washington -Sen. Abraham A. Rivicoff condemned proposals hy other senators that he said would "appear to be against busing without really ending it." He called for the enactment of his own proposal that would give metropolitan areas 10 years to integrate their public schoos through the use of low and middle-income housing construction. 
Tallahasse, Fla. -Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York told the state legislature that he favored busing to achieve school integration and would take the political consequences of his stand. 
Nt>w York -Svetlana Allilueva, Stalin's daughter, has separated from her husband, William Wesley Peters, in a disagreement over the way of life at the Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation in Arizona. According to a newspaper, Mrs. Peters had complained that the families at the foundation were living a "communal life" and that was the reason why she had left the Soviet Union. 
on campus today 
7:30 
--lecture, douglas w. peterson, the kalamazoo plan, carroll hall. 

7:30 
& 9:30 --movie, brewster mccloud, engineering auditorium. 


9:00 --meeting, astronomy club, 118 nieuwland. 
6:00 meeting -nd sailing club: spring schedule yearbook picture, 204 engineering. 
NOTICE: copy for on campus today is due before 3:00 on the day before publication. 
Taiwan condemns Nixon's China trip 
<C> 1!172 New York Times Taipei, Taiwan, Feb. 21-­Taiwan's National Assembly, as its first order of business at the first working meeting of its current session, passed by ac­clamation a resolution con­demning President Nixon's trip to the China mainland. "Not only will it fail to con­tribute to world peace but it will make free world countries lose their faith in the United States," the statement said. The assembly also declared that the Chinese Communists were an "illegal rebel group" with "no right whatsoever to represent the people on the mainland" and maintained that 
Nationalist China would never change its "basic national 
Badin and Walsh pick rooms 
next week (?) 
Students from Badin and Walsh Halls should be picking rooms next week according to Dave Tobbin of the Office of Student Residence. 
Last night's meeting of the Ad Hoc Housing Committee with Father Chambers, Director of Student Residence, assigned four members the task of going to the presidents of the various halls. These four "subcommittees will, Tobbin explained, find out in each case how many rooms are available for members of the displaced halls, and under what arrangements. The reports will be given at next week's meeting of the committee. 
policy"  of  recovering  the  
mainland.  "Under  no  cir­ 
cumstances  at  no  · time,"  the  

assembly said, "will there be room for negotiation or com­promise." 
The resolution was forwarded to the Ministry of Foreign Mfairs for presentation to the U.S. embassy. 
The 1,374-member national assembly convenes once every six years, primarily to .elect the country's president and revise the· constitution. The current session opened yesterday with an address by President Chiang Kai­Shek. 
Taiwan newspapers carried brief wire service reports today of President Nixon's arrival on the mainland. Government spokesmen have said that the press will carry all the "hard news" generated by the trip but will not publish feature or "color" stories that tend to glorify conditions in Communist China. 
Junior Jim Ferguson won a landslide victory yesterday in Howard Hall's presidential election. Ferguson and his running mate Bob Chong cap­tured 87 of the 144 ballots c~st in the four way race. 
Ferguson is a junior from Akron, Ohio. Chong is from Wainanalo, Hawaii. 
Ninety per cent of the hall residents voted. 

STUDENT UNION BUSSES TO O'HARE 
Now on sale at the 1st Bank campus Travel Office from 9:00 am -4:30 pm Busses depart N.D. Circle for O'Hare March "'22-· .. 1:30 pm 
Busses return to N.D. from O'Hare April 4 ... 8:00 pm $5.00 one-way All Sales Final 
Busses will stop at SMC ONLY on April4 on the return from O'Hare to N.D. 

Eddy to speak at business symposium 
A. K. Eddy of the Leo Burnett advertising agency, Chicago, will discuss the Kellogg account at the 5th annual marketing sym­posium in the Paul A. Gilbert Lecture Series sponsored by the University of Notre Dame's College of Business Ad­ministration Thursday. 
Eddy will present a proposed program as it was presented by the company at a session beginning at 10 a.m. in the Center for Continuing Education. A solution to the company request will be discussed at an afternoon session beginning at 2. 
Next 
MONTESSORI 


Teacher Training Program 
June 26 August 11, 1972 in Chicago on beautiful campus. Serious shortage of Montes, Teachers. Write Montessori T_ Train. 1010 
W. Chicago Ave., Chicago, Ill. 60622 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 




20th Annual Jr. Parent -Son Weekend March 3 4 5 
-Majors presentation with College Deans -Luncheon -Campus Life presentation 
-Presidential Reception -President's Dinner -Communion Breakfast 
-Andy Williams -Henry Mancini Concert 



l 

Wednesday, February 23, 1972 
Vol. VL No. 84

OBSERVER 

by Homer Bigart <cl 1972 New York Times 

Harrisburg, Pa., Feb. 21--The government said today that its conspiracy case against the Rev. Philip F. Berrigan and six other antiwar activists was based on the word of one informer, Boyd F. Douglas Jr., a former convict who has served seven years in federal prisons. 
Chief Prosecutor William S. Lynch said in a opening statement that Douglas had supplied the Federal Bureau of Investigation with copies of alleged messages between Berrigan in Federal Prison at Lewisburg, Pa., and other members of the group outside. 
The prosecutor said that these messages showed that Berrigan was the leader of a bizarre conspiracy to kidnap a Presidential aide, Henry A. Kissinger, to blow up the heating systems of government buildings in Washington, and to raid draft boards in several cities. 
Lynch's outline of the govern­ment's case was promptly assailed by his one-time boss, former Attorney General Ramsey Clark, who is a defense attorney. . 
agreement, no plan to kidnapClark charged that the Henry Kissinger or anyone else," defendants were being Clark told the jury. "There wasprosecuted partly to stifle the no conspiracy, no agreement, no peace movement and partly to contract, no plan to bomb"justify a leak" by the F.B.I. 
anything. These defendants areDirector, J. Edgar Hoover. 
the gentlest of people, notHoover spoke of the alleged plot capable of injuring anyone." 
at a Congressional Hearing on Berrigan asked to make aNov. 27, 1970, before the in­personal reply to the Govern­dictments were handed down. 
ment's opening. He brought to the"Of course, we know Henry courtroom an 18-pageKissinger wasn't kidnapped," typewritten statement reviewingClark said. "He is alive and well his "nonviolent" actions againstin Peking today. You will see the war.
that there is no conspiracy, no 
Berrigan mass in Grace 
released from prison and placed on parole status at WoodstockConcurring with the prison College, New York. Berrigan and release of Father Philip six others--priests, nuns, and a
Berrigan, a concelebrated Mass will be offered Thursday night at Pakistani scholar--were in­11 p.m. in the "pit" of the Grace dicted for plotting to kidnap Tower lobby, announced Rev. presidential advisor Henry 
William Toohey, Director of Kissinger and blow up heating Campus Ministry. A meditation tunnels under the U.S.Capitol. and discussion on the place of The theme of the Mass, radicalism in Christianity will be "Berrigan, the Man of Faith," 
led by Fr. Toohey, and Father will involve student opinions and David Burrell, Chairman of the impressions as well as the 
Theology Department. homilies by Fathers' Toohey and February 24 marks the day the Burrell. All are welcome to 
participate, Fr. Toohey said.
Bev. Philip Berrigan will be 

Election Reporters: 
Please come up to the Observer office to pick up information, schedules, & other trivia sometime this afternoon before 5 
Thanx-the management 
China's reaction to Nixon's visit 
by Max Frankel 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

Peking, Wednesday, Feb. 23 --President Nixon and Premier Chou En-Lai met for four hours of policy discussions Tuesday afternoon as China finally let her people know that a major event was under way. 
Nothing was disclosed about the direction of 
conversation. But if the excitement in the streets 
was an indication, the mood inside the Great Hall of 
the People was cordial. Certainly cordiality bet­
ween the leaders of the two nations was evident as 
they appeared together last night at the per­
fqrmance of a revolutionary ballet. 
Chinese citizens crowded impatiently around 
downtown newstands after lunch for a copy of 
Jenmin Jih Pao, the newspaper of the Chinese 
Communist party, which devoted two of its six 
pages to an extraordinary layout of pictures, text 
and dry announcements about the President's 
arrival, his meeting with Chairman Mao Tse-Tung 
and his exchange of banquet toasts with Premier 
Chou Mondav. 
Chinese officials, editors and interpreters 
carefully avoided any explanation of this decreed 
news treatment or the public reaction. One editor 
conceded the obvious --that it had been a long time 
since a visitor to Peking had received such con­
centrated journalistic notice. 
There was visible discontent among Peking 
residents when the papers sold out at 4 p.m., two 
hours after distribution. . . The rare occurrence 
added to the crush around the billboards on which 
the papers are displayed in the principal downtown 
shopping streets. 
THE RADIO READ THE SAME announcements 
throughout the day, but it could not furnish what the 
people so clearly wanted most -a glimpse, without 
caricature for a change, of the President and Mrs. 
Nixon and of their senior aides, and of their 
reception in Chairman Mao's rarely photographed 
private study. 
There were three large photographs on page 1 --of the Mao-Nixon handshake, the Chairman's book­strewn study and the Chou-Nixon handshake at the airport. The Premier's "five principles" of peaceful coexistence were boxed conspicuously at the top of the paper above a large headline saying, "Chairman MaoTse-Tung meets President Nixon." 
The second page was also devoted entirely to the Nixon visit, with the text of the toasts and four more large pictures. The three other major newspapers on sale here, which are not available to foreigners, were said to have provided similar coverage. 
Peking television showed a 10-minute film of 
Nixon's activities Monday, including a rare but 
silent 90 seconds of Mao and the President in 
animated discussion, 
Conspicuous at Premier Chou's side in all the 
public receptions for the President have been Yeh 
Chien-Ying, an old army marshal-now apparently 
managing the military and influential also in 
foreign affairs, and Li Hsien-Nien, the deputy 
Premier. 
THE POLITBURO HAS BEEN deplet~d by a series of unannounced purges, notably of Lin Piao, the Defense Minister once designated as Mao's successor, the army chief of staff, the Navy's · political commissar and the air fopee commander. 
The press coverage confirmed the unusual 
prominence of the man who joined Premier Chou 
for the private talks with Nixon and Henry A. 
Kissinger Tuesday afternoon. He is Chiao Kuan­
Hua, a deputy foreign minister and the leader of 
China's delegation to the United Nations last fall, 
who has been present on every occasion when Chou 
pressed the policy of "coexistence" in international 
forums --at the Geneva conference on Korea and 
Indochina in 1954; at the conference of nonaligned 
nations in Bandung, Indonesia, in 1955 and at the 
Geneva conference on Laos in 1961-62. 
The others at the intensive discussion between the 
Premier and the President were Chang Wen-Chin, 
in charge of European, American and Australasian 
affairs at the foreign ministry, and Wang Hai-Jung, 
the deputy director of protocol, who is said to be 
Chairman Mao's niece. 
The President also brought John Holdridge and 
Winston Lord of the National Security Council staff. 
The other members of the official delegations, led 
by secretary of state William P. Rogers and 
Foreign Minister Chi Peng-Fei, held a separate 
conference at the same time. 
THE FOUR HOURS OF POLICY discussion were followed, after separate private dinners, by another warm, spirited social gathering of the leaders in another part of the endless Great Hall of the People in the center of Peking. 
LETTERS ... 
'fridges for third time 
Dear Students, 
In the last two letters which I wrote, I presented a proposal and a number of facts to reinforce the proposal. I will now say that I am not writing this as an interested student, but as a senior in Electrical Engineering. Fur­thermore the facts and arguments which I have presented, have all been discussed with a number of my professors, all of whom are professional engineers. 
I think that all large refrigerators (capacity greater than three cubic feetl and all appliances with a heating element should be banned. Large refrigerators have starting currents between 10 and 15 amps. Hot plates, for example, draw 800 watts (about 8 amps) when on. This is an excessive current drain on any "typical" wiring system. (Note: In most cases hall wiring systems are sub­standard -they were wired to handle a 1930 load, quite different from 1972). 
My contention is that the $40.00 fine on small refrigerators and the proposed fine on black and white TV's is unjust. It is unjust because it forces a minority of students to finance rewiring which benefits everyone; a rewiring that brings the elec­trical service up to a standard found in universities like LSY, Michigan, IU, Illinois etc. Moreover I only ask that the fine be reduced to a $5.00 permit fee. 
In closing I would like to point outthat if the above high wattage items are banned, then there would be a very large decrease in the current drain between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and midnite. <The time when hot plates, pop corn poppers, coffee pots , etc. are used.) This will put the current draw well below those "dangerously high levels" that Brother Kieran speaks of. 
Sincerely, 
Raymond DeCarlo 
Is lnPIRG Worth It? 

Dear Editor: 
Sure InPIRG is a good thing now-but how long will it stay that way with the guaranteed income that this petition is requesting? 
Why should the Notre Dame student bear the burden? Why have the University act as its tax collector? Why not have the University bill the Inidana consumer? O.K.-so the Notre Dame student is concerned. Why can't the group work among the students for voluntary donations? Wouldn't it just be as easy-in-fact more direct and immediate than 
trying  to  round  up  some  
significant  percent  of  student  
signatures?  

The University will certainly charge for the service and this will just cut into the funds collected. On the other hand, volunteer donation seekers will cost nothing. Maybe the students will be so enthusiastic they will deliver their donations them­selves if a location were so designated for that purpose. ­
Or could it be that the people behind InPIRG are concerned that the organization won't be able to hold a backing? Are they instead "banking" that the current wave of public concern will soon subside, thus drying up their resources? Haven't we learned from our fathers' mistakes how bureaucracies are created? 

I am not against InPIRG. I think it has great potential. It may be our last hope to make the producers responsible for what they are charging for. So why set up InPIRG so it can't have the responsibility to its benefactors~ To guarantee InPIRG an income through this petition is inviting still another bureaucracy to gobble up our last resource. 
I say if you've got a good thing it will live of itself. To stay a good thing, it must be made to work for its keep. 
So give InPIRG what it needs. It needs money now to start but also responsibility to deliver before it gets more money later. Rut for its own health and well being don't give InPIRG a free ride. 
Arthur G. Schmidt 
Graduate Student 
Department of Physics 
Make SLC Work! 

~ditur: 
The SLC, as I see it at the present time, is more or less a heavy restraint placed on the effectiveness of student govern­ment. Though in its creation its purpose was to help give legitimacy and to strengthen student government it has acted quite contrary to its purpose. There are 3 major problems with the SLC: 
1) It does not know itself, whether it is a legislative body, 
1) It does not know itself, whether it is a legislative body, an executive body or just what its functions really are. They have yet to define themselves. 
The committee of 24 is too large a group. It is difficult to motivate them in one direction. 
3) Even once the measure 
3) Even once the measure is past, there is the power of veto. This more or less defines the SLC as merely an Administrative tool which manipulates student government to achieve only w at it wants them to achieve. My suggestions to improve these situations are: 
1) Define its powers, and find out just what the SLC really is. 
2) Reduce the voting mem­bership to one half or one third the size, to make it easier to work 
with. · 
3) Create a channel to override the veto, by obtaining a two~ thirds vote. I stress this point most of all. 
If the SLC itself, the Trustees, or the Administration does not consent to these proposals and the SLC continues to achieve nothing while hampering student government, then it should be completely removed or at most only remain as an advisory body with no power. It is time the system within which student government must work becomes a practical and useful tool, rather than a bureaucratic maze of dead ends. If we are going to have an SLC, make it work or forget it! Walt Spak · 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-Chief, Glen S~ Corso Assistant EditorAssistant Editor 
All successful newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 

ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend 
Advertising Manager 
Business Manager anyone or anything if they can help it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle
Jim· Jendryk 

they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 
News: 283-1715Business: 283-7 4 71 
A Good Thing 
What looked like an angry confrontation between the faculty and Notre Dame's own Grand Inquisitor---Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell---turned out to be a rather quiet smoke filled meeting last night. 
The faculty, with their job security on the line after the Provost's ruling that no more than two-thirds and no less than one half of a department can be tenured, was rumored to be spoiling for a fight, on the grounds that Fr. Burtchaell's dictum was too arbitrary. 
But the Provost ~.isplayed a surprising degree of conciliation and flexibility in discussing his ruling with the assembled professors. The administrator indicated that he was not wedded to his two-thirds one-half rule so firmly that he wouldn't consider changing it. At the same time he offered to do so it anyone could come up· with a better idea. 
That a priest, known at times for being stubborn and arrogant, should go to far to soothe the faculty is both amazing and welcome. 
Even more astounding was the cleric's admonition to the teachers that student course evaluations were important in determining how good a faculty member really is at his job. That these evaluations should not be held up as the final word in determining a teacher's performance, was a most proper con­tention by the Provost. Too often students hate a professor who loads them with work, or who gives extremely difficult exams, and disregard his teaching ability. A clear statement on the part of the number two man in the administration, that student evaluations are taken most seriously, is a very good thing indeed. 
Tenure is a very difficult problem, one that almost defies solution. Faculty have a certain right to protection from arbitrary dismissal. But when this privelege is granted too freely, you have a situation where there is simply no room for younger and sometimes more talented faculty to advance. And that is a bad thing. 
The Provost's way is not the best, but it surely is not the worst. Allowing the situation to drift, allowing departments to tenure members in such a way that there will be no openings for fifteen years, lest someone dies or leaves, is the worst. If the system proposed by Fr. Burtchaell is flexible when conditions demand it and if the provost is as careful as he claims in studying the per­sonnel in the various departments then perhaps the system will work and work well. 
By asking for the minutes of each tenure committee, in order to see what, if any, splits there were on individual decisions, Fr. Burtchaell has demonstrated that he is willing to look beyond their stark yes or no decision and explore the substance of that choice. 
If the faculty, in the guise of the Senate or through individuals, comes up with an alternative plan then they should push it and push it vigorously. Until they do however Fr. Burtchaell's plan looks to be the best and indeed the only alternative to the drifting of the past. And that is a very good thing. 
nite editor: Jim McDermott 
Nite Nice People: Art "sunshine" Esposito, Maria Gallagher (thanks), Joe Abell, Dan Ryan, Joe Wilkowski (on two shots and a prayer), Don Biancamano, John Abowd (for a while), Chuck Mangione, a few guys from Chitown, theCat, TC Treanor, Glen S. Corso (the den mother), T.J. Clinton, Demon Rum, Gracie 
Voices on the Phone: the third floor LeMans group Sports Editor and co-horts: Jim Donaldson, Lefty Ruschman, Vic Dorr 
We introduce ourselves To Planets and to Flowers But with ourselves Have etiquettes And awes. Emily Dickenson, c. 1872 



fr. robert griffin 
the pathways through the cold 


In the heart of February when the drifts lie heavy upon the evergreen and the snowdunes heap the crocus beds with the frost of winterkill, I, as a Christian and a priest, sometimes lose the direction of the journey of faith. In summer, in the city apostolates, the mandates of the Christian life are easy: a quarter to a beggar, a word of comfort to a harlot, and one has completed the daily chores of the Kingdom of <~od. One performs a bit of Liturgy, formalized and unchanging: the whisper of absolution to a passing stranger, a thin flake of bread upon the anonymous tongue, and the Christ-life has been communicated to satisfy the thirst and hunger of the soul in search of heaven. 
But here on these acres of faith, where the Maiden-Mother, gowned in fire, dances with the sun and moon upon a dome of gold, and the symbols of the God­pncounter. always near at hand, are the Bread of living wheat and the Cup heady with the fermentation of grace --here, on this Campus, where the general ethic to love one another must be nailed down to a particular life-style and a tangible com­mitment. it suddenly seems that the road to heaven is strewn with broken com­passes and torn-up roadmaps, and there are booby-traps awaiting the kick of the straying foot. 
It was not always so in the Church. In the days before the aggiorniamento, before a fat, jolly old Pope began ven­tilating the premises with the uncertain 
breezes  of  tolerance  and  ecumenical  
brotherhood.  there  was  a  doctrine  and  
practice  of  orthodoxy.  The  Liturgy  

followed upon a ritual with the clean, chaste lines of tradition; and though Father might be drunk on the charismatic gifts. he proclaimed his joy through a prolonged and touching caress of the Latin s~llables rather than through the dance steps of relevance in a liturgical ballet. In those days, the celebrant of a Mass was not a creator of liturgies --not a syn­thesizer of Simon and Garfunkel, and 
gene mol i nell i 
It probably all started when I was born, 
but, ·since I'm not sure how that is con­nected exactly, I'll start this story somewhere else. 
It all started on registration day. I should have known something evil was in the works this semester when my girlfriend dropped me between lines MEA and MOL under the north dome of the Convo. But being the kind, unsuspecting nitwit that I was, my newly bleeding heart was immediately repaired when I got my schedule and found my Psych class was being held at St. Mary's. It was an ND course and I had expected it to be held here. It was a pleasant surprise and, since 1 had no classes around it, I thought I would have no problem getting to and from it in lime. 
WHONG! 

The class was TT at 9:30 in Madeleva, so, not wanting to be unprepared, I ran quickly to the directory and looked up the bus schedule. Ah, there it was: TT locals leaving 8:45,9:30, 9:40... Well, the first was too early---Heaven help my psychology instructor, I thought considerately, if he thinks I'm ever going to be awake by 8:45. I saw, to my surprise, that there were none listed for 9:00 or 9: 15, so I looked up that marvel of modern mechanizing--the ex­press--9: 19--perfect. 
I slept soundly that night, though my guarding angel and patron saint must have been wringing their hands in worry over what they knew to be in store for me. 
In my childlike excitement over the first day of class I awoke early, ate a con­tinental breakfast and found a bus passing the north dining hall about 9:00. What a surprise! I got on and it took a right at the stop sign. I made a mental note: shuttle bus--local--9:00A.M. It was good to know. Apparently there had been some mistake in the directory schedule <being for the Kahlil Gibran --he was a dispenser of por.dering the areas of commitment mysteries in the drama of redemption. necessary to the priest who would be "Alleluia" was his shout of joy, not "Sock contemporary to his times. To support it to me .. Jesus!" amnesty --that political football of an 

I do not want to go back to the liturgies election year --seems like one of the futile· that existed before the days of Superstar. I gestures truth is always making in the face do not really mind when my congregation of falsehood in a world where Christ is puts its hand in the hand of the Man Who forever condemned to wear a crown of stirred the waters. But will one ever again ·thorns. I have hated the war, and I want 
find_ in the folk-celebrations with the hippie Christ a sense of the Mass as the heartbeat of redemption, liturgically hushed on the solemn days of Holy Week when the God-Man hangs between heaven and earth, an enigma of eternity, as the victim of one world and the promise of another, until the Easter song of the Church proclaims the victory of life? In liturgy, as from one's youth. a glory has departed from the face of the earth. 
Hecently, I attended a meeting with a gr?~P of prie~ts --fine, sensitive m_en, as spiritually gifted as any generation of Notre Dame priests since the time of Sorin. One topic discussed among others was the support to be given to student movements favoring amnesty for the draft resistors now in jail or exile. To be honest, 1sat there slumped in the torpor of sloth, 
a very sad story 
fall semester>. I began to suspect that There might even be a local at 9:15. Too bad I didn't suspect that I was being set up. 
For the next class I was not childlike and I slept through the 9:00 shuttle and got along about 9:15 to the circle behing Nieuwland. Along about 9:16 comes this bus. Having no other buses to choose from, I got on to see what would happen. It turned right at the stop sign. I made another mental note: shuttle--local--9: 15-­sometimes one minute late. Though I would be a little late today, I was not unhappy. I was convinced that I had figured it out; if I had waited another two minutes I would have gotten on the ex­press. I was proud that I had figured it all out by myself. I now knew the 9:30 class bus schedule. 
WRONG! 

Maybe if I had looked up I would have seen Truth Central's Second-Warning­Signal--a cloud shaped like Fr. Burtchaell shaking its head. But I didn't. 
The "9: 15" bus turned into Madeleva first rather than LeMans. An interesting twist, I thought. Little did I realize it was merely another turn of the screw by the plotters-against-my security. 
Armed by the blank weapon of my false confidence, the next class day I stood behing Nieuwland resolute in my deter­mination to get the express which left three minutes after the end of class--the fabled 9:18 express! With a confident sneer I snickered at the foolish people who crowded on the bus that came at 9:16. Like lambs to the slaughter, I thought I ought to warn them. But I didn't and I watched the bus pull away, and I followed it in its path the the intersection. And as I watched it make a left turn and my mouth dropped open, my book fell from my hand and I swooned in a neurotic fit. 
This time I could practically hear the justice for its victims --but, there is a discouragement that comes with middle age, a weariness from watching too long at the Cross, waiting to lift the Victim down. 
I<~ighteen years ago, when I was or­dained, all of us priests knew the ab­solutes. Resist birth control. Hate Communism. Masturbation is a mortal sin. The' Family That Prays Together, Stays Together. Bishop Sheen knows how to talk to Protestants. Support the Legion of Decency. Build Catholic schools. Read Catholic novels. "Mother Dear, 0 Pray for Me" is a waltz tune. Gary Cooper died a Catholic. Avoid the near occasions of sin. 
Today, there are no occasions of sins ­no block-busters, at least, like Playboy ... only the occasions of selfishness and immaturity. The great sins are in­stitutional: the government's fire:. 
tail end of the buzzing buzzers and feel Heaven's unhappy sympathy. I felt per­secuted. When I awoke I looked around in a nervous jitter, biting my nails in fear of the Shuttles. I didn't make that class but searched my soul for the strength to rebuild the destroyed confidence-after all, it was only one failure. 
I managed to pull myself together and survive a 9:14 trip which took me around NO and then over to LeMans instead of Madeleva. I was even taken on an express ride that left at 9:21 and still I did not suffer a relapse. However, during this period I noticed my pulse would quicken at the sight or mere mention of a shuttle bus. I was convinced it was a plot by some evil authority to separate me from my sanity. I was going to fight it. 
Then one day I though no bus was going to come. I really had to get to class that day because I had a test on chapter one. 
I has made it to the stop at ten after so as to be able to get the late 9:00 local or the early 9: 15 local or 9: 18 express or the very late or early gypsy bus that I had figured must exist. It was 9:20 and no bus; it was 9:23--no bus; it was 9:25 and no bus. My heart began to race---if an express were to come, I still had a chance since this class might. start a minute late. 
It was ice cold out there as the minutes ticked away. Having worn, by chattering, my teeth to the bone, I was nearly in frozen tears. Then a bus came. Quickly I looked at my wrist---no watch! Oh, gosh-golly-gee what a dilemma! Was this the 9:18 bus late or the 9:30 local early,or was it the famed gypsy bus which was neither express nor local? Or was it, perhaps, last Firday night's bus which had never shown up for that heavy date with Waldetta? I was confused, but I really had no choice. I had to take it. All I could was worry. 
B~ the time the jam-packed thing bombing of jungle populations, the Church's failure to support integration. All the best priests are in jail, at the ghetto, on the picket line, or at the demonstration. All the best nuns are at­tending sensitivity groups. The great fear I have about sensitivity groups is that the really relevant people will talk themselves to death. 
In the heart of February, I lose the direction of the journey of faith. I don't know where I am going. 
So it is, Lord, in this confusing season on this campus of change, that I ask for the directions of love. I am supposed to be a shepherd, but I don't know the pathways through the chill and cold. I need one little lamb who can show me the way home. Then both of us will be at rest, and at peace, with You. 
Is it a sin, Lord, for a shepherd sometimes to get lost? Is there someone I haven't been listening to, or some sign posts I haven't been watching? 
Lord, let me sleep tonight in the sheepfold of love, and I'll not get lost again. 
1.. 

vomited up its belly of beauties and everything was ready for me to board, what did I see but another bus pull in behind--and, will wonders never cease, still another. Hurriedly I thought, but then I remembered that one shouldn't think when dealing with Shuttles. So I remembered the time when I hadn't taken the first bus and it was the express. So I got on the first bus. 
WRONG! 

The skies darkened, the clouds rumbled and my bus took a right at the stop sign, followed closely by the two others which took lefts. I was in psychic agony. The plotters against my security had done it again. They had tricked me. I was flaming furious. I pulled the stop cord and busted out the door. I started running after the expresses yelling obscenities and blasphemies. 
"There is no bus schedule!. . . The distribution of buses in time is random! .. :correlation coefficient is 0.00. . . " (you realize, of course, I had been studying for a psych test over chapter one> 
Mad as an unmerged SMC, I stormed over the road toward St. Mary's. At the grotto fourteen Shuttles coming from St. Mary's blocked my way trying to push me over the brink of sanity. Determined not to give in I headed across the lake. But a winter wind blew across, throwing snow all about me and blocking the view. Everything was white--I did not know which way I was going--lost, cold, bitter, I was crying now, screaming again, fuming still. 
I kept going though and, much to the consternation of my mother and in­difference of my friends, I was never seen or heard of again. It's kind of sad, really. 

Letters • • • 
• •• on abortion, rambling diatribes, and inpirg 
Abortions in general. the moment it comes into arguments. Your childish at­a check-off system. This poses 


John R. Lonergan 

morality' as shaped by Nazi Communist principles"). It's their morality against yours, the most powerful man winning. Third, no one, Mr. Petami, is trying to "cram'; his beliefs down your throat. Believe what you please, because freedom of belief is sacred. License in our actions, however, is not. There is no statute, for example, against a religious belief in human sacrifice. Attempts to put that belief into action, however, are forbidden by law -not as restraints on religious belief but as legitimate safeguards for the public welfare. So, too, with anti­abortion laws and crusades. They are not directed against religious beliefs but against anti­social and anti-life practices. Cloaking such barbarisms (viz., abortion in religious rhetoric is simply the worst form of blasphemy. Finally, Mr. Petami, I fail to understand (since you say you are a Christian) why you filled your letter wfth such pathetic ad hominem and anti-clerical ~ -~ 10% OFF  MOCK CONVENTION DELEGATE SIGN-UPS Today thru Friday in the Huddle, 10:30 am-2:30 pm in theDining Halls: 5:00-6:30 pm Delegate Fee -$1 .00 Sign up early for your choice of-state delegations  
111a11·\~ •11err111  
On any mechanical work and winterizing. For students and University Personnel Roseland Gulf 402 U.S. 31 North Acro11s frnmRurg~r KingL-----­ friday, feb. 25 at 8:00 p.m. la fortune ballroom $. 75 admission  
Cultural Arts Commission's Performing Arts Series presents Brewster McCloud Wednesday, Feb. 23, 7:30 & 9:30 tngineering Auditorium Admission $1.00 PAS Patrons {yellow-card) FREE  


Editor: 
Recently a wealth of con­tradictory 'facts' have emerged concerning abortion. I do not claim to know the facts, and therefore deem it fruitless to voice my opinion on the subject. But I am not on trial. Rather it is the authority of the concerned writers that I question. 
The point in dme at which human life (i.e. the everlasting soul, which theologians claim distinguishes man) enters the body is indeterminable. Surely the presence of a soul is an ac­cepted prerequisite for human life. The Knights of Columbus use pictures of the well-developed fetus because the similarities in appearance between the fetus and a baby will hopefully cause outrage. But resemblance alone is no proof of human life, for many primates resemble the fetus remarkably at similar stages in development, and no one could interpret an aborted monkey as a murdered person. 
All arguments are at best incomplete. Yet some people demand that their arguments be accepted as law. This can only be interpreted as repression. Abortion is in no way mandatory. It allows the mother to choose. Right or wrong, this can not logically be construed as murder since the woman fails to accept the belief of human life in the early fetus. The liberalization of the laws removes society's feeble 

attempt  at  universal  
moralization;  it does not  force  
immorality.  

The Church, regardless of its power over Catholics, dictates no moral law to non-{!atholics. U.S. citizens should not accept any specific church's stand on a moral issue since such a stand's legal application would constitute an infringement o£ religious freedom. 
However, if the K of C and other similar organizations feel a need to voice moral injustice, why not assault the cause of abortion. The cause if this society's anachronistic views which are the source of repression and ostracism aimed at unwed mothers and fatherless children. If there is any moral question involved it lies in the act which precipitates conception not the birth of a child. 

Since the K of C claims allignment with the Church, I suggest you question the Chur­ch's dictum on contraceptives. It is founded in the belief that human life is so sacred that 'unnatural prevention' of con­ception constitutes a moral of­fense. The evidence of social ills (over-population, poverty, unhappy marriages, etc.) compounded by the Church's stand leads one to doubt the Church's concern for present world community and mankind 
WATCH ROLLER DERBY CH. 28 T.V. SAT. 2:00
DftH01t 
JoLtERs

.n,u ll.l~ vs.
ei1Jy'8:00 P.M. EAGLES 
MONDAY FEB. 28th 8:00 P.M. DAME ATHLETIC &CONVOCATION CENTER 
lleuen ••••••••••••••••••••• $100 Lower lrt11 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • $3.00 Lece &Plltfonn ••••••••••••••• $4.00 
IOTIE Dl•• A.C.C. ln.·Sat. I It 5 
SL .Itt lnlnil lrucllts 
rtnt ....... Office 
Furthermore, what about the multitude of other social in­justices which exist in our society'? What of a war which the Council of Churches has con­demned as 'wrong''? What of political repression, racism, sexism, and the numerous other social evils'? Where is your moral voice on these issues'? I ask for ...I demand moral consistancy in a so-called religious organization. 
Abortion is pitiful. But do not pity the unborn, for if they had a soul a merciful God would surely grant them eternal rest. Pity ourselves for our blindness to the real evil and our unwillingness to change. For without change we are doomed and the unborn are luckier than we. 
Respectfully and hopefully yours, 
Michael C. Sheehan 
The Original Women's Lib 
Editor: 
As a woman, I watch with a quiet (and bitter) amusement the small storms on your pages, come from recent K of C anti­abortion advertisements. I feel a delicate sense of irony because, merger fun and games aside, this is an all-male organization speaking <Phew! "Knights"-the very word reeks of righteous virility) 
I'll say only this: none of you Knights is female. None of you will ever own a uterus. Thus, none of you will know a rather common, rather hellish time-that of a woman facing nine months of sick fear and utter degradation, utterly alone. None of you have a womb. None of you will ever be torn to clotting shreds by a back-room semiprofessional with a 11 coathanger and~r catheter as his credentials. . If I ever again see an ad like this placed, fellows, let me hear it from your wives. Until the Columbian Ladies speak, why don't you all shut up and sit down'? 
Sincerely, 
Name Withheld 
Petami Rambles 

Editor: 
Although Mr. Petami's ram­bling and disjointed diatribe is so ridiculous that it merits no reply, several errors in his recent letter should be corrected. 
Contrary to Mr. Petami's belief <probably pirated from a Sartre reading in freshman English), existence does not precede essence. Existence and essence are co-relative, co-existing principles: one cannot be separated from the other. A table, for example is a table from existence. It doesn't exist first and then at some later time gain 
"table-ness" (its essence). Ifone were to believe Mr. Petami, an object would exist first and then later acquire the attributes by which we identify it (e.g., "table­ness", "human-ness", etc.). Experience teaches us that this notion is absurd. 
Second, Mr. Petami un­fortunately subscribes to the currently fashionable (albeit misguided) practice of con­structing his own "personal morality" (to use his own words) -as if there are many "ac­ceptable" moralities, the trick being to choose the one that best suits each individual. Truth ( be it moral, historical or mathematical) is one, however. By definition it does not admit of contradiction. It is our job as rational, intellecting beings to put our actions and moral beliefs in accord with the dictates of this one True Morality. If we actually can justify one system of moral imperatives for Mr. Petami, one for me and one for you, then even the monstrous crimes of a Hitler or Stalin can be justified ("They simply followed the dictates of their 'personal tacks on Miss Ostric, the Pope and the Roman Catholic Church, for example, proved nothing. As for your gratuitous charges of "self -righteousness", why not put your own house in order before condemning others'? Richard J. Wall, jr. 364 Cavanaugh 
lnPJRG Objections 
Editor: 
I object to the purposes of the lnPIRG petition for the following reasons: 
1. You are asking for a political contribution to be collected under 
Notre Dame -St. Mary's Theatre 'presents 
Judas Christ 
A NEW PLAY BY MICHAEL REHAK Feb. 18, 19, 25, 25, 26 8:30 pm Washington Hall Tickets $2, $1.50 for ND-SMC Staff, Faculty, Students Reservations at 284-4141 and 283-7054 
the future problem of the University collecting funds for political ends. 
2. 
Since most tuition and fees are paid for the students by others, in effect this is a taxation without representation. 

3. 
There is no expressed purpose to the University collecting the funds that ·could not be ac­complished as well by a desk in the ACC during next fall's registration. 


Very truly, 
-~-­

Fordham embarrasses ND 89-72 

hy "Lerty" Huschmann remained in the opening period. served up by the Irish. Notre Tom notched nine of his team's Dame invited further disaster
Digger Phelps managed to first 14 points, enabling the Irish with a dismal 29 per cent shooting keep smiling until the end of last to stay close at 15-14. Notre average, compared to Fordham'snight'sembarrassing 89-72 loss to Dame's only chance to take the 46 per cent.
Fordham, even as a delegation of IPad was aborted, though, by a Notre Dame was unable tovisiting Ham rooters tried to rub charging foul assessed to Chris thaw out in the second half,whileit in with a few choruses of Stevens, who also drew a Sullivan, Heyward, and Charles"Good-bye, Digger." 
technical foul for protesting the reeled off consecutive Fordham 
Most of the 8,902 fans in at­call. The Hams' stand-in center, goals to forge a commanding !l9­tendance left the game wearing Tom Sullivan and Frank 26 lead, the largest bulge of the anything hut smiles, however, as lleyward banged home buckets evening. The Rams also led 59-35 
the Fighting Irish absorbed their sixteenth defeat of the season. It l'an hardly be said that Notre !>arne went down in style, either; last night's game was a sloppily played, loosely officiated bore which was no contest for most of the second half. Bad shooting, an Irish problem all season, set in late in the first half, when Notre Dame went scoreless for the last four and a  to make it 19-14. O'Mara interrupted with a long shot from the corner, but a Sullivan free throw, followed by goals by Woytowicz and Tom Pipich, put the Rams ahead, 24­16. After a flurry of basket­swapping, a five point run by Fordham, led by Ken Charles, extended the visitors' lead to 33­24.  later on in the half, displaying a balanced scoring attack. Officials Red Struethers and Jim Bain added to Irish woes, parceling out a total of 41 per­sonal fouls. Willie Townsend was the only casualty to the whistles; his fifth foul coming on a charging call after he decked Ken Charles while going in for a layup.Although Charles was hurt and missed the last nine minutes  
half minutes of action. Mean­while, the Hams built up an 18­point cushion which easily stood up against what feeble ehallenges the Irish could mount. Tom O'Mara's 32-point perrormance was the closest thing to a bright spot which the game could offer. It was Tom who got the Irish on the scoreboard for the fist time after buckets by Ken Charles and Bart Woytowicz put Fordham on top,  Mike Townsend replaced Don Silinski and quickly drove for a pair of layups to narrow the Hams' advantage to 33-26, but Mike's second goal, with 4:29 remaining closed Notre Dame's scoring for the half. During the Irish drought, the suffocating Fordham press produced repeated turnovers, while at the other end, a sporadic fast break produced a few easy baskets for the Rams.  of the game, he still led his team in scoring with 21 points. The Hams then leading 69-51, were able to go without his services the rest of the way. With six minutes remaining, Frank Heyward and Don Silinski engaged in a mild scuffle at midcourt, and both players were chased out of the game on the ensuing double foul. Both coaches substituted freely in the final minutes while much of  
·t-0.  Fordham's  44-26  halftime  the crowd started home. Those  
O'Mara  and  Willie Townsend  advantage could have been much  who stayed saw the Irish bench,  
provided  all  Notre  Dame's  larger  had  the  Rams  made  led by "Leo" Schmelzer, crawl  
Sl'oring  until  five  minutes  better  use  of sixteen  turnovers  back  to  a  respectable  final  

Frosh whip Purdue, 86-79 

hy .Joe Passiatore 

Notre Dame's freshmen basketball team withstood a couple of Purdue rallies in the second half last night, and prevailed over the Boilermaker freshmen by a score of 86-79. The Notre Dame scoring attack was a balanced one, however, it was the exciting backcourt of Gary Brokaw and Dwight Clay who were the key figures as far as making the offense go. 
Clay was leading scorer with 23 points, with Brokaw one point hack at 22. Belford Bruno was vPry much in evidence with 18 points, including a couple of timely scores, while Pete Crot­ty's inside manPuvers resulted in 15 points. 
In thl' parly moments of the gamP neither team could establish superiority and control of the lead shifted from one team to the other. Dwight Clay and Willis Price of Purdue were rPsponsible for the bulk of the Parly scoring, but when Brokaw began to get warmed up, the tempo of the game belonged to Notre Dame. At 12:10 in the first half Brokaw connected on a hanging jumper from the foul line to even the score at 12-12. 
At this point, Purdue's zone defense. wbich had been working pffectively, began to come apart al the seams. Clay's outside shooting, along with Brokaw.s penetrating drives and sub­sequent feeds or shots moved the Irish out in front 24-21, with 7:02 IPft in the half. 
Notre Dame's full court press finally resulted in some Purdue turnovers and when the harassed Boilermakers lost the ball on three consecutive drives upcourt, the Irish were able to turn it into a score each time. The Purdue dPficit went on to reach ten points whPn a Brokaw to Bruno basket made thl' score :18-28 at the I: 16 mark. A basket by Price from the 
corner  accounted  for  the  38-30  
halftime score.  
Bruno  and  Crotty  took  the  

initiative in the second half and their scores kept Notre Dame ahead by a comfortable margin. When Crotty hit a 12-foot jump (;:uy Brokaw led the Irish Freshman quintet to an 1!6-79 victory over 

Purdue last night with a 22-point performance. shot to make the score 55-43 it would have described as "silky looked as though Notre Dame's smooth". He spotted Clay drif­worries were over. Shortly af-ting down the right side of the terwards, however, Crotty picked court, fired a perfect pass and up his fourth foul and Purdue Clay converted the lay-up and began to make their move. John was awarded a free throw Garrett, a 6'8" center renowned because of the Purdue foul. 
for scoring 70 points in a high The three point play seemed to school game, g?t a hot hand and take the heart out of the reduced the I~Ish lead to 5~-54. Boilermaker comeback and 
Brokaw a_gam turned t~e tide, Notre Dame went on to ac­however, with a three POI~t play cumulate a 78-70 lead with 3:32 that resto;ed Notre Da'!le s lead remaining. Purdue began a to_ 59-54. I urd~e came nght back series of desperation fouls, but wi_th consecutive b~skets and ~he the Irish were successful enough lnsh held_ a prec~nous one pomt at the line to keep the game well lead. The mnovative Brokaw then in hand proceeded to steal the ball from a · Purdue guard and fake out the Notre Dame upped their season surprised Boilermaker with a record to 11-5, while the. reverse pivot that Bill Russell Boilermakers dropped to 8-3. 
Irish vs. Wolverines 
Be where it's at­with the Fanatics 
Fri. Sec. 7 Sat. -Sec. 6 

margin. In addition to taking Fordham upped its record to 5­scoring honors, O'Mara also 5 on the road, 15-7 overall. Notre 
shared the rebounding lead with Dame, now 6-16 travels to Omaha Willie Townsend and Fordham's on Saturday to face the Creighton 
Sullivan, pulling down ten Bluejays.
rebounds. 

·The Irish Eye 
Be Where It's At 

In my travels around the WCHA with the Irish hockey team, writers from other campus papers have invariably commented, "I'll bet you have an enthusiastic hockey crowd at Notre Dame. I've seen your football and basketball games on television and the fans really go wild." 
My reply is always given somewhat sheepishly. "No, I'm afraid that ho<·key hasn't really caught on yet at N.D. There's usually a pretty dect'nt turnout but they're the quietest hockey crowd I've ever seen." 
Most of the other colleges that have hockey are crazy about their teams. Getting a ticket for one of Wisconsin's home games is as dif­ficult as finding an extra ducat for a Notre Dame football game. Harvard and Boston University met last week in the finals of Boston's annual Beanpot Tournament, on a Monday night, and 14,995 hockey nuts crammed into the Boston Garden to watch the defending national champion Terriers whip the Crimson, 4-1. And those people don't sit on their hands, either. They really "shake down the thunder." 
But that's not so at Notre Dame. A club playing on its home ice should bt• at a distinct advantage, but, as things are now, a number of lhl' Irish icers would prefer to play on the road. 
"The crowd noise at places like Wisconsin really gets you psyched and makes for a better game," one Notre Dame player remarked to me as we bussed back from Madison a couple of weeks ago. "Things are so dead at the Convo." 
It could be different this weekend, however. Although the Irish have b('('ll slumping lately. they still have a chance to make the WCHA playoffs. Eight of the ten teams in the league qualiry for the playoffs and Notre Dame is currently ninth in the standings with a 7-15 record and:!:! title points. But they trail Michigan and Colorado College, who art' tied for seventh, by only two points. And the Michigan Wolverines art' coming into the ACC for a four-point series this Friday and Saturday nights. 
The Irish have their backs to the wall. Their hopes for post-season play rest on this weekend's games with the Wolverines. A sweep is almost imperative. 
Needless to say, coach Lefty Smith will have his club "up" for the St'ries. But there's a bunch of hockey fans who are "up" for the series too. and have been looking for ways to make their presence known at this weekend's games and give the club an extra lift. 
Loosely organized, and calling themselves the Fanatics---a little more enthusiastic then than the average fan, they say-the first step on their agenda was to see if they could have a student section at the games as a focal---and vocal---point of their activities. 
llonald Bouffard. Notre Dame's ticket manager graciously <·oope•·ated and the Fanatics and other interested students will be ('S<'onsed in section seven on Friday night and in section six on Saturday. Tickets in these sections will only cost $1 and the seating arrangement will be loose---fans can sit anywhere they want in the Sl'dion, as long as they make noise. 
It had originally been hoped that a pep band might be able to make an appearance this weekend but there was no help forthcoming from llobert F. O'Brien, Notre Dame's Director of Bands, who, for reasons 
•
of his own. was dead set against the idea, and the pep band succumbed as a result. 
N(•v(•rtlwless. the Fanatics plan to make a sort of music of their own, tn·ovid(•d by a stray drum or two, perhaps a few air horns, and a smattel"ing of kazoos. It won't be good, but it will be spirited. 
There have been all too few occasions this winter for Notre Dame sports fans to cut loose and make some noise. This weekend's crucial series with Michigan offers a golden opportunity to have a great, rowdy time backing the Irish. Be where it's at-with the Fanatics. 
~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Happenings at ND 
Assorted Odds 'n' Ends 



Draft Policy 

The University of Notre Dame has announced a policy for the readmission of students who are drafted before completing degree work. 
The policy announced by Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., University provost, makes readmission of any student in good standing who is· drafted automatic upon reapplication following his military service. 
University of Iowa; Washington University in St. Louis; Indiana University in Indianapolis, and Notre Dame. The winner of this group will advance to semifinal competition at a midwest site to be selected, and the semifinal winners will participate in national competition at Los Angeles April 16. 
Contest entrants are judged on the skills necessary for professional conpetence in law office practice, including mastery of preventive law techniques, human relations factors in talking with clients, counseling, planning, and im­promptu analysis of client's real problems. 
··•'"'''nlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllooo,... 
The Pan-American Club and the Latin American Circle have corrected an error printed in yesterday's Observer. The movie "Che" will be shown. It is the story of the revolutionary leader Che Guevara. 
..•''llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll"'•. 
Leader Art Show 
An exhibition of paintings by Robert Leader, including the unique "Debris series" that reflects the anguish and passion of modern man, which began Sunday (Feb. 20) in the University of Notre Dame Art 

Galleries,  will  continue  until  
April9.  
Other  pieces  of  art  in  the  

exhibition by Leader, a professor in Notre Dame's department of art, will include 16 paintings of geometric abstractions and 12 color studies for stained galss commissions. The latter are works for leaded or epoxy glass which Leader completed for more than a score of Indiana, Minnesota, and Nebraska churches and schools. 
Mock Law Office 

The University of Notre Dame Law School will host the In­terscholastic Mock Law Office regional competition Saturday, March 4. The public is invited to the competition beginning at 
12:30 p.m. in the Center for Continuing Education. 
Law students participating in the Notre Dame regionals will include two-man teams from the 
Tired of living on Campus? 
Come see the Notre Dame Avenue Apartments 
H you are looking for modern living, we have the answers: 
* 
Close to campus 

* 
2 large bedrooms-Room for four students

* 
large kitchen, dining room and plenty of storage space 

* 
Fully carpeted living rooms with a private patio and balcony

* 
9 & 12 month leases 


These apartments are completely furnished and are co-educa tiona I. 
Renting now for this summer and next fall 
Call 234-6647 





