
<;.old wjth a ella nee tlf 
~otll. 

Vol. VI. No. 94 serving the notre dame -saint mary's community 
Tuesday, March 7, 1972 
Shoppers, workers among victims 
52 injured •
lD Belfast blast 



(c) 1!172 New York Times News 
Rl'lfast•. Northern Ireland, March 6­Fifty-two persons were injured here today when a bomb exploded in a parking lot at the rear of a movie theater. The injured were mainly women shoppers and office workers. 
Security forces said that the explosion had been caused by a 50-pound gelignite charge planted in a stolen truck parked behind the Ritz Cinema. They were in­vestigating the possibility that the bomb had been planted by the same terrorists 
who set off an explosion in restaurant on Saturday that persons and injured 136.  a ki Belfast lled wo  
Police warned  

An official spokesman said thepolicehad received a telephone call earlier informing them that a bomb had been left in the parking lot. The lot was searched," but the truck was not there at that time, the spokesman said. 
Tonight, a security patrol, hearing gunshots, found a youth lying in apool of blood not far from the scene of the blast. He was taken to the Royal Victoria Hospital in serious condition. 


Bombs have terrorized Belfast this past 
week. Almost two hundred people have been 
injured. 

In. Londonderry, a bomb left by two gunmen wrecked one of the city's three remaining hotels. Staff and guests at the 17-room Ardown Hotel were given a 25­minute warning by the armed men, who asserted that it was frequented by detectives. 
Meanwhile in Coleraine, the tribunal investigating the killing of 13 persons by British soldiers in Londonderry on Jan. 30 went into its third week. 
The British Army Brigade Commander in the Londonderry area told Lord Widgery, Britain's Lord Chief Justice, who is sitting as a one-man tribunal, that the army· had rejected advice from the local police to allow the Civil Rights· March to take place. 
Rights march related 
Brig. Ptrick MacLellansaidunder cross­examination that the local police chief had warned before the march that if it was halted there would be intense violence. He said that the police chief, Frank Legam-a Roman Catholic-had suggested taking photographs of the march leaders for prosecution later. 
Dol. Derek Wilford, who was directly in charge of the paratroopers when they advanced into the Catholic bogside area, said he had seen only one soldier fire one shot and had not personally seen any civilian gunmen or nail bombers. 
He said that during the clash the paratroopers fired 103 rounds of am­munition. 
South quad favored in Badin, Walsh picks 


Halls on the South Quad quickly filled last night as displaced residents of Badin and Walsh chose new dorms. 
247 students picked rooms from the quotas which the ad hoc housing committee had determined for each hall. Dorm quotas ranged from Holy Cross's low of 10 to a high of 30 in Flanner and Grace. 
Morrissey, Howard, Lyons, Sorin and Fisher were the first hal~s to_ fill. On the Nort~ Quad only Farley, Flanner, and St. Ed s filled. No Badm-Walsh residents chose Keenan­
Stanford. "Residents picked into other halls on an equal basis with thos~ already living in those halls," according to Badin Hall President Roger Burrell. 
He added that most halls did not set aside specific sections but that students choosing those halls could form their own sections in a mann~r consis~.nt with that hall's policy policy. 
The only complamt the JOint room selection committee heard was South Quad halls filling "too quickly." 
"We expected this to happen," Burrell noted "but there was nothing we could do about it. Most of the co~plaints will probably come during individual hall lotteries of GPA 
picks." "No section was forced to split up," Burrell added. 

~ 

____ _j 

Tuesday, March 7, 1972

2 the observer 
·$25 taken lrom_olfice 
Juniors! Juniors! 
last week to make arrangements
Student Union robbed 
by Daniel Barrett 

A set of lost keys was ap­parently responsible for van­dalism in Student Union offices Saturday night. An unknown person or persons entered the offices by key and stole twenty­five dollars from the petty cash cabinet drawer. 
All locked cabinets were pried at and emptied according to SU Director Bill McGrath. A combination-lock safe in a cabinet was pried at but not opened. Contents of the other drawers were thrown all over the office. 
McGrath speculated that the vandal or vandals were "un­familiar with the office." par­tially because_the keys were later 
next semester 

Aug.25-28 Orientation Aug. 28 Registration for ALL students 
:Aug. 29 Classes begin at 8:00 a.m. Sep. 4 Labor Day (classes 
meet) Sep. 5 Latest date tor all class changes 
Sep. 10 Formal opening of the school year with Concelebrated Mass (subject to change) Oct. 11 Midsemester reports of deficient students Nov. 1 All Saints' Day <no 
classes) Nov. 18-U Thanksgiving 
vacation Nov. 27 Classes resume Nov. 30­
Advance 
Dec. 7 
registration for spring semester 1972-73 

Dec. 8 Feast of the lm­
n a cuI a I e Con· Dec. 14 ception (no classes) Dec. 15_ Last class day
21

r------F_i_na_l_ex_a_m_in_a_ti_on_s___get well duker .. the fellows 


IRISH HOCKEY 
WCHA PLAYOFFS ND vs. DENVER 
on WSND-AM 640 
Hear all the action tonight & Wednesday at 
9:55. 
Off-campus can hear WSND broadcast on WNDU 


PRE-CANA PROGRAM 
tFor those engaged) 


APRIL 9, 16, 23 -8 pm 
Registration: Office of Campus Ministry -Mem. Lib. 
or phone: 6536 or 234-6417 or 234-6451. 

Registration closes March 17th 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
for your Senior Portrait
He explained that during changeover many people on projects carrying over into the 
for the '73 Dome. 
new administration receive keys that are never returned. Many of these keys are later duplicated. 
Please phone 1454 
or drop by room 2-C
McGrath estimated that there are forty keys in the ahnds of U people, but as many as twenty 

student center 
more might be in the hands of people who shouldn't have them. 

to make an appointment
McGrath stated that no more 
Union money would be kept in the of­Director belie'les vandals of S.U. fice, but that no other security 
Studio Hours: 9 am -6 pm 
had a lost pair of keys. changes are foreseen. 
found in a lower floor lavatory. He was unsure whether the key was lost by a present SU member or a person on special assign­ment. 

on campus today 
4:00 ward-phillips lecture-dr. william arrowsmith, the modal nature of character and action in drama, library auditorium. 
7:00, 9:30 film, night at the opera, engineering auditorium. 
8:00 lecture cancelled, john snell is sick, his lecture on german history i:s cancelled. 
9:30 hockey, wcha playoffs, nd vs denver, wsnd radio; off campus, wndu. 
night editor: Anthony Abowd ass'! night editor: george lund layout: Nic Catrambone headlines: Chris Sullivan early shift: John Abowd· sports editor: Jim Donaldson special guest: Joe Abell night controller: rick smith 

Cu tura Arts Commission's performing arts series presents A NIGHT AT THE OPERA 
With the Marx Brothers Tuesday March 7 7:00 & 9:30pm Engineering Auditorium . . PAS Patrons Free 
Adm1ss1on $1.00 ellow card 




"Hello, Chief? 
Pocahontas andI justeloped!'' 
"Delicate" news is so hard to communicate in a letter-and so much more graciously said with a long distance call. Costs so little, too, when you dial direct (about V2 the cost of person-to-person). For example, a direct-dialed call to Niagara Falls after 5:00 p.m. would cost less than $1.00. The tactful way to "break news" is to call. The economical way is to dial the call direct. 

Tuesday, March 7, 1972 the observer 
Irish ready for playoff opener 
by Jim Donaldson 
Sports Editor 

The experienced, veteran champion, Denver University, takes on the young rookie, Notre Dame, in the opening round of the Western Collegiate Hockey Association playoffs tonight at the Denver U. Arena in Colorado. 
The clubs will meet for the 
second time in the two-game, total goal series tomorrow night. Both games will be broadcast by WSND, beginning at 9:55. 
The Pioneers, who captured their seventh WCHA title last weekend by defeating Wisconsin twice in Madison, are old hands at championship competition. Five past Denver teams have won the national championship and the Pioneers lost just one of their top 14 players from last year's club, which placed third in the NCAA tournament. 
Notre Dame, a first year member of the WCHA and playing only its fourth year of varsity hockey, will be making its initial appearance in the 
pressure-packed tourney. 
The Irish finished eighth in the league, compiling a 10-16 record and 28 title points. Denver won 19 of 28 WCHA games and compiled 52 points, six more than runner­up Wisconsin. 
The two clubs met three weeks ago in a pair of four-point games in the Mile High City and the Pioneers edged the Irish twice, winning a 3-2 overtime decision and a 5-4 verdict. 
Denver coach Murray Arm­strong was impressed with the Irish icers' showing and com­mented, "Notre Dame looked as good as any team I've seen this year. I didn't see any weaknesses in their club." 
If one had to pick a weak spot on the Notre Dame sextet, it would have to be the club's defensive performance, which has been disappointing at times this year. The Irish won't be able to afford any defensive lapses against the high scoring Pioneers. 
"A good, close checking game is the key to victory in the playoffs," Notre Dame assistant 
coach Tim McNeil said on the 

Jim Donaldson======:======================;=====:::::::::::::::::::::;;:=:=:;:::::=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::. 
The Irish Eye 

::================================================================:i=============================:::.Pfa yoIf Patter 
Mention the word "playoffs" around a hockey player or a hockey fan you're likely to get an enthusiastic response. 
Playoff games are not like ordinary, scheduled games. They're something extra special. Once a club has made the play-offs, it has a chance to rise to the top, no matter what its regular season standing. In fact, the playoffs are really a "second season". 
Right now, despite a subpar 10-16 WCHA record, Notre Dame's hockey team has achieved one of its season long goals, making the league playoffs. The Irish had to overcome a great deal of adversity in the form of injuries, bad breaks and poor officiating that cost them a couple of games, but now coach Lefty Smith's club is only six games away from the national title. 
But the Irish will have to battle every step of the way if they are to lay hands on the national championship trophy a week from Saturday in Boston. Because of their eighth place finish, Notre Dame's icers must play all their WCHA playoff games away from home and against the toughest competition in the league. 
The WCHA tourney pits the top four finishers against the fifth through eighth place finishers in a two-game total series. Notre Dame will play at Denver, seventh place Michigan Tech visits league runner-up Wisconsin, sixth place Michigan travels to Grand Forks to take on third place North Dakota while fourth place Michigan State hosts fifth place Minnesota-Duluth. Colorado College and Minnesota were eliminated from post-season play. Colorado finished in an eigth place 
· h 1 ff b h bee thth

tie wi Notre Dame but the Irts won the p ayo ert a use ey outscored the Tigers, 23-9, while beating them in three of four
· th 1d

meetings unng e regu ar season.
The four winners in the first round will meet in another two-game,total goal series Friday and Saturday and, again, the lowest regular 
· k

season finishers w' ill have top1ay at the top c Iubs•rm s. 
In a two-game, total goals series it is not necessary to win both games, but merely to score more goals than your opponent. If a team wins its first game 2-0, then loses, 1-0, it is still considered to have won 
the series and will advance to the next round. 
The two teams which survive in the WCHA playoffs will undoubtedly represent the West in the NCAA tournament. The playoff system may not seem fair to those teams which finish near the top of the standings 
eve of the club's departure 
for Denver. 
"Denver is a strong skating, free-wheeling team and we'll have to try to contain and pressure them," McNeil stated. "This team proved to itself Saturday night that, when it has to, it can play good defensive hockey, but it's a six man responsibility." 
"They recognize the value of working together," he continued. "We've been getting solid goaltending but, during the last couple of weeks, our forwards are beginning to share the defensive responsibilities, too. They realize how much they can contribute and have begun to think defen­se." 
"I believe that a goal saved is worth two earned," McNeil said. "To beat Denver, we'll have to make the necessary adjustments to play sound defense." 
The Pioneers are hardly a club that can easily be held in check. Paced by the talented line of All­American Vic Venasky, Tom Peluso and Pete McNab, Denver led the WCHA in goals scored, pumping 148 shots past opposing goalies. Venasky led the WCHA in scoring as a freshman last season and Peluso and McNab are among the top five point producers in the league this year. 
Denver, like the Irish, has had problems preventing goals, however. Twice within the past few weeks, Colorado College ripped the Pioneers for nine goals. Junior goalie Ron Grahame has been in the nets for all the Pioneer games thus far and the Irish hope that he may be 

• 

Co-captain Bill Green leads the Irish defensive crew against the high­scoring Denver Pioneers in the opening round of the WCHA playoffs 
tonight. tired after the grueling WCHA campaign. 
Notre Dame has regained its scoring punch the last couple of weeks, racking up 16 goals in a sweep of Michigan and 15 in the split with Michigan State last weekend. The line of John Noble, Ian Williams and Eddie Bum­bacco has been particularly effective recently, accounting for eight goals against both the Wolverines and Spartans. 
The Irish have also been get­ting solid goaltending from senior Dick Tomasoni, wh turned in an outstanding performance in the playoff clinching win over MSU, and sophomore Mark Kronholm, who did a fine job in the nets when Denver posted their overtime win over Notre Dame . 

Notre Dame had to struggle to gain their spot in the playoffs and they face an uphill battle in their quest for the national title, but coach McNeil feels that the team is ready to play their best hockey of the season. 
"As a result of the frustrations we've had this year, I think that the team has come of age. We're a young club but we've gained experience," he said. 
"We're thankful to be in the playoffs and look forward to the challenge of playing Denver. They might be a first place hockey team, but we still have a team capable of beating them." 


ND wrestlers lose, 20 -18 

the teams in the WCHA, it is the most equitable way to determine which clubs can play best with the pressure on. 
Last place Minnesota managed to win three of four games from second place Wisconsin during the past season while Colorado split its four-game season series with Denver. Any team in the WCHA can beat any other club on a given night and the teams which emerge victorious in playoff action will certainly be deserving of a spot in the national tourney. 
Notre Dame's chances of making the trip to Boston for the NCAA title event don't appear to be very good. They were able to compile only a 2-10 record against the WCHA's top four clubs and they will have to beat two of these teams, away from home, if they are to be selected for the national tournament. 
Nevertheless, the Irish are optimistic about being able to holdtheir own in the playoffs. Coach Lefty Smith commented on his team's playoff hopes after Saturday night's 6-2 victory over Michigan State at the ACC that ensured the Irish of a berth in the post-season com­petition. 
"As I look back on the season after nights like tonight," Smith said, "I have a hard time visualizing our record. Mter this weekend, I'm more convinced than ever that we have the makings of a good team. I think we have reached a high level of maturity and that we'll do well in the playoffs." Smith continued, "We're as good as anyone in the league. We haven't done as well as I'd hoped this season and the playoffs will give us a chance to redeem ourselves." 
Smith and the Irish have believed all season long that they can beat the best teams in the league. And now they've got their chance to prove it. 
by "Lefty" Ruschmann 
Close matches in the 134 and 158-pound weight classes made the differences as the Notre Dame wrestlers dropped their final match 20-lS, to Marquette University last Saturday night at Milwaukee. Despite ending the season on a losing note, the Irish grapplers finished at for
114 

their best record in history. Ken Ryan, appearing in his last duel meet, notched his 50th 
career victory to establish an 
Irish club record. Mike Fanning
also rolled to his 24th win of the . t . f' t
year, regis ermg an easy trs­
period pin to raise his season total 
to 21, also a team record. 
M1'ke Bei·ni·ng of the Warrt'ors 
· 
opened what proved to be a seesaw meet with a l3-5 decision over Mike Martin in the 118­
pound event. 
Steve Moylan led the Irish back in the 126-pound match by pin­ning Russ Cascio at 3:50. Steve closed out an unusual season, in which all eleven of his wins have come by falls. 
In the closest match of the evening, 134-pound Tom Rudolph was restricted by N.D.'s Rick Esposto to a 1-all deadlock, but Rudolph piled up enough of a time advantage to win by a 2-1 count. 
Kurt Bramble answered with a a near-fall for a 5-1 lead. Time advantage contributed the extra point. 

Fritz Bruening dropped a frustrating 2-0 verdict in the battle of !58-pounders to the Warrior's Dale Roznik. The only scoring came on Roznik's first period takedown. Mike Kemp, wrestling at 167, also suffered a shutout at the hands of Bill 
come-from-behind 5_3 win over . Bezdichek, this one by the score 
M tt , T N · th 
arque e s om euman m e 142-pound class. Bramble, after 
taking a 2-0 lead on an early
takedown, suffered a near-fall in the second stanza. A reversal 1 t . th . d h t 
a er m e peno • owever • pu him ahead to stay at 4-3, and he added an extra point for riding
time. 
Captain Ken Ryan was ham­strung in the early going by 150­pound Greg Gutowski before coming on strong in the last period. Trailing 1-0, Ryan reversed his opponent and scored 
of 3-0. 

NCAA regional champ Keith Koziczkowski of the Warriors 
took Rick Komar apart in the 177 pound match, winning 21-2. AI Rocek also had little success,
losing to Dan Jones in the 190­
pound event, going dwn by an 11-1 score. Jones' win sewed up the meet for the Warriors, who took a 20-12 lead into the final event. 
Heavyweight Mike Fanning needed but 1:15 to clamp a half-nelson on Ben Guido and pin him to the mats, leaving the Irish two points short of victory. 
during the regular season but, because of the balance of power among ,--------------------------------------1
* * IMPORT ANT * * 
NEWS DEPARTMENT MEETING TONIGHT 
7:00 IN THE RATHSKELLAR ALL OLD REPORTERS AND ANY 

INTERESTEDIN REPORTING SHOULD ATTEND.
* * IMPORT ANT * * 


.4__ the observer Tuesday, March 7, 1972 
For new members ol Council lor Retarded 
Digger to chair drive 
Hichard F. <Digger) Phelps, University of Notre Dame baske-tball coach,l will be the honorary chairman of the annual me-mbership drive of the Council for the Hetarded of St. Joseph County. 
Phelps' appointment was announced today by Ervin A. Derda, President of the Council. The-month-long membership campaign will be conducted in l\1arch. 
Lindsay meeting 
This week the Notre 
Dame Committee for 
Lindsay for President is 
attempting to coordinate a 
drive for placing John 
Lindsay on the Indiana 
primary ballot. 
The drive is in need of 
people to go into South 
Bend ot obtain signatures 
from registered Democrats 
on nominating petitions. 
All those interested 
should attend an 
organizational meeting at 
8:00 tonight in the Fiesta Lounge of LaFortune Student Center. 

Poetry contest 
by Deborah Kerr 
A statewide Poetry ·Com­petition open to all undergraduae students courrently enrolled in Indiana Colleges and Univer­sities sponsored by the Indiana College English Association I CEA has been announced by Harold Isbell of the St. Mary's English department. Entries must be given to Mr. . Isbell <office 308 Madeleva, SMC) on or before March 20, 1972. 
Any undergraduate student currently enrolled is invited to enter. . . Each student is limited to no more than three entries. These poems must be typed in double space on one side of the page < 81 ~ x 11). The students's name must be typed on the reverse side of each page sub­mitted. 
The poems submitted. will be judged by a local committee, and the first three poems selected will be entered in the state com­petition. 
Every entrant should retain copies of the poems entered in the competition. Poems submitted must be original <no tran­slations l and un ublished. 

DANCING WED. NITE 
MARCH8, 8:00 pm-12:00 pm 

PITCHER BEER KUBIAK'S TAVERN STATELINE 
THE ASSOCIATION March 18 8:00pm Stepan Center Association will play for two 1 hour sets All profits go $3.50 on saleThurs. 
to charity March 9 Dining Halls 
The Council for the Retarded of St. Joseph CCounty is a com­munity agency which provides a variety of services to retarded pe-rsons in the county. The Council operates Logan School for mentally retarded children between the ages of 2 and 16, and an Adult Training Center and Workshop which provides job training for older retarded persons, many of whom become seIf-sufficient after their training. 
The United Way agency, also 


McGovern group sues Gary cops 
James Beatty, chairman of the his name on the Indiana primary 
Indiana organization of the The delegation was at the 
McGovern for president Com­Village Shopping Center for less 
mittee, has filed charges against than an hour when Gary police 
the Gary police for harrassing collected them and threatened 
McGovern petitioners. them. Though the police had no 
Students from the Third legal basis for their treatment the 
District, including three Notre students felt compelled to leave 
Dame students, were in Gary last and did so peacefully. 
weekend trying to secure The students plan to return to 
necessary signatures for Senator Gary next weekend to continue 
George McGovern in order to put in the hands of their drive. 

SIMERI'S 
Happy Hour 7 to 1 0 pm 64% pitcher Bud. $1.32 
-PIZZA-

Italian sandwiches Spaghetti & Sea foods 
LIQUOR & COLD CARRY OUT 
Free use of dining room 
for club meetings, etc. 
410N.Hill 



l 0% OFF 
On any mechanical 
work and winterizing. 
For students and 
University PPrsonnel 
Roseland Gulf 402 U.S. 31 North Across frf.lm Burger King 

supported by county tax funds offers evaluation and referral services for retarded persons, a recreation program, and social services to the retarded and their parents. 
Among the activities planned by the Council during its mem­
bership campaign  is  an  open  
house  and  community  ap­ 
preciation day  on  March  15.  

Open House tours of Council facilities will originate at Logan Ct>nter. 1235 North Eddy Street, that day. 
BEST BANDS IN TOWN 
-Two Bands a night ··Dancing 6 nights a week 
. (closed Monday.) -No cover on Tues., Wed., Thurs. -Open till 2 a.m.
.. "One stop entertainment center" 
Cocktail lounge Bowling Billiards 

Sf.u/a's J\tite C/u/, 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
616/683-4350 


ICLASSIFIED ADS I 
NOTICES 
Recycle your books with Pandora. South Bend-Notre Dame Avenues. 

Cl1airty Bake Sale. Huddle. Sat., March 11. 9:00-4:00. 
Parts and Accessories for Im­ported Cars. Foreign Car Parts 
Co.  215  Dixieway  North  
(F~oseland) 272-7187.  
DISCOUNT  TRAVEL.  To  and  

Within Europe. Leave anytime from NY Chicago. Flight Center ?27 North Randall, Madison, WI 53705. (608) 263-3131. 
N<•w 7th & 9th grade classical­christian school needs English, Liltin. Math and Science teachers. Since salaries will be small the first year, we're looking for qraduate students (preferably with Masters) to work part-time while at Notre Dame. Send vita, references, etc. to Magdalen School, P.O. Box 1225, South Bend, 
~6624. 
CHIMES accepting poetry, fic­tion, essays, graphics. Submit to 
D. Kerr 533 McCandless, R. Campell 813 Grace, T. Knoles-P. Smith 334 Dillon. 
Student Union Buses to O'Hare March 22. NO to O'Hare 1:30pm. April 4 O'Hare to NO 8 pm. Tickets on sale at the 1st Bank Cnmpus travel office $5 one-way. All Sates Final. 
NASSAU TRIP MARCH 24-31. 8 ciays and 7 nights with quad ac­COill. Air fare and Hotel may be purchased separately. Limited number of seats available. Tickets on Sale at Student Union Ticket office. $202 inclusive. Questions, Call: 7757. 
Wives of Notre Dame Students are 111vited to join the Student Wife Club and -or attend their meeting Wednesday at 7:30 pm. in the F,,cully Lounge of the ND Library. There will be a make-up demonstration by Joanna Dr!'xler 
Students interested in forming a tundanwntal protestant. student­run Bible study and prayer group 011 cnmpus. Call Steve 7986. 
ATTENTION: Soph. Arkies COLLECTING CANS (pop) for project and recycling f\ASEMENT ARKIE BUILDING. 
1yping Anytime.. Reasonable Prices. Chip (8256) or Mike (6963) 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: 1953 purple bus. $75 or hcst offer by Wednesday, March 
8. C,lll Crew Club C.O Steve f\uccini 1076. 
I or Snle: 1956 Oldsmobile Holiday. Call 8098, DAN. 
Stuffed chairs-super cheap; 111 ,111dol in Excellent condition; Cot; 1966 Sunbeam · low price. C.111 259 0482. 
f ngagement Rings, Watches . 1r!'nH'ndous Savings, Complete line. Call TOM 3575. 
Michelin X tires 165-380-15 with tubes. For all VW Bugs; most 15" ~ports and imports. Less than 2,000 miles. $80 tor 3 tires or Best Offer 255 6726. 
1967 Dodge Dart, 2 door, 6­
cylinder, automatic, radio, snow 
tires, new battery, turquoise, 
excellent condition. Call JOHN 
283 6720. 
FOR RENT 
Furnished 2 Bedroom house for rent in Roseland. Call 272-6086, nfter 5 pm. 
WANTED 
POETRY WANTED for An­tholoqy. Include stamped en­velope. Idlewild press, 1807 E. Olympic Boulevard. Los Angles, Cnlifornia. 90021. 
Wanted: Mature, intelligent participants for group sexual mcounter. Serious replies only. Confidential Interviews by mail. Rox 171 ND Station. 
Scalpers! Wanted: 1 ticket for Vienna Symphony Orchestra. Will pay through the nose!!! Call KEN 8761. 427 Stanford. 
Need ride from Louisville Friday March 10 or back on Sunday Mnrch 12. Call 234-6689. 
N!'ed ride to Albany, March 8or 9. Cnll 8988. 
Need tickets for Vienna Sym. phony. Will pay! 3663. 
R1de to Joliet. Weekend of the 10­
12. Leave Friday. Eugene J. L1urich 
Sprinq break Need ride to Florida. Call 8471. 8549, 8075. 
Need ride tor two girls to· Florida ,,t Spring Break. Call 5716. Please!. 
NP!'d ride for 2 to St. Louis and hack for this weekend. We'll pay for qns. Call 1010 or 8981. 
Ride wanted to MSU Friday. Call [)AN 8427. 
NC'cd 2 or 3 riders to Erie PS M.1rch 10. Jim Licata 
PERSONALS 
f.!<·volving Door: 
You nrc wearing out your phone. 
l'>itsiepoopoo 
Teaman 
"Wives are good lovers to other men, too" ... apparently 
Sharon, H,1ppy Birthday to our favorite locker room pal love, KC'n, Bill, Mike the Jock, CI1Umley, Gersh, Jim, and Doc 
O,liSy: You cnn't fool Errol Flynn Errol Flynn 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Gold rimmed glasses near SPnior Bar. Call John 234-2484. 
Lost: Blue cotton N D Band jacket. Lnundry tag on label. JFB 1927. Reward. 
Lost: Grey frame glasses. Call Jim 1535. 
ror Sale: 1962 Valiant. Good <onclition. Call 3076, LUIS. $50 
ll.ORIDA 1! Round trip $40. Call 283-6339 between 47 pm. Ask for ROB. 






