On The Inside 
Hesburgh discusses civil rights 
...pages 
Vol VII No. 38 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
by Mike Charles Staff Reporter 
Student Acad~mic Council members Ed Ellis and Fred Giuffrida agreed yesterday that while a smaller Academic Council could perform more efficiently, the decision of the current Council's Steering Committee to drop effective student membership to three is ill founded. 
The Steering Committee, headed by University Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell, has recommended that entire Academic Council membership be reduced to twenty­nine, including only three students. 
Ellis, the Student Government Academic Commissioner, feels this is unwise, "Three does not allow a sufficient diversity." 
He believes at least five student members are needed. 

Giuffrida is more avid; he considers seven 
student members necessary. "I think there 
should be seven student representatives, one 
from the four undergraduate schools, one 
from graduate school, one from law school, 
and the academic commissioner." 
Giuffrida commented, "I'm in the Arts and 
Letters College and I know our problems, but 
I have no idea what the problems are in the 
College of Engineering." 
Giuffrida feels that student involvement in 
University affairs if vital. He has proposed 
student members be placed on other com­
mittees, such as: Search committees for 
officer recommendations, the Admissions 
committee, the Scholarship committee and 
others. 
Lowering the number of student members 
on the Academic Council, he said, would be 
an attempt by the Administration to stifle 
student involvement and invite further 
student apathy. 
The power of the University Administration is naturally quite strong, according to both Ellis and Guiffrida. This is another reason Ellis would like to see more students on the Council. He commented, "The ad­ministration's power is already large enough. With a small number of students the im­portant administration can intimidate the ·students. A larger number of students might 
be more relaxed." 
Ellis and Giuffrida possess nearly identical 
opinions on student membership' However, 
Fred Giuffrida had no comment on the faculty 
ratio on the Academic Council. All Ellis 
would say is that he believed a one-to-<1ne 
ratio of faculty and administration would 
suffice. Apparently neither belives the 
faculty situation is important. Ellis said, 
"Many times the faculty and administration 
will offset each other." 
The issue won't be resolved for at least 
another two weeks. Until then most of the 
student members are pulling for six or seven 
representatives on the Academic Council. 

Hesburgh hints at resignation of civll rights post 
by Betsy Dwyer Staff Reporter 
University President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh offered to resign his post as Chairman of the Civil Rights Commission in the event that President Richard Nixon is re-elected. 
Speaking in Sorin Chapel, Hesburgh touched on other topics ranging from amnesty for war protestors to coeducation. 
After the speech Hesburgh explained the offer saying, "I though it would be an honorable thing to offer to resign the chairmanship in the event of a landslide re-election of the President." 
Hesburgh noted that he considered civil rights the "number one" priority of the next four years. Notre Dame's President said that if Nixon is given a mandate he ought to be free to appoint someone of his liking to the civil rights chairmanship. 
"The Civil Rights Commission has just been ex­te~ded fo~ another five and a half years," Hesburgh said, addmg that he doubted that he would like to remain with the commission for the duration of the extension. 
no blanket amnesty 
On the amnesty issue, Hesburgh commented that "the Vietnam War is an obscenity· that will probably go down in history as the worst mistake the U.S. ever made. Since it is an obscenity, I think that anyone who stood up against it should be given a medal.'' 
Hesburgh does not approve of McGovern's blanket amnesty policy, however. He said that these men should not be grouped into one category but rather should be dealt with on an individual level. For example, he suggested, a serviceman who went 
A.W.O.L. to Canada or Sweden should work out his remaining service time as a conscientious object.Jr would, in a hospital or service organization. 
Americans apathetic 
The Presiden{'s greatest emphasis was placed on the fact that people "don't get excited anymore" about problems such as abortion, the draft, government subsidies and crime in the streets. 
"The American people have become a bunch of sheep. They are dead in their moral activities," he said. "What we need now are people who are sensitive to injustice, immorality, inhumanity ... most people 
, don't want to be botherd. Unless people get excited you can forget about humanity in this society." 
Commenting on coeducation, Hesburgh said that it , would take a year or two to get female enrollment up to ' I ,000, which will cause a slight decrease in male 
enrollment. 
Concerning increased employment of women and black professors, Hesburgh said, "We are serious about this. It is up to the individual departments to find these people." On this search, he observed, they must keep in mind that, "We have to run a first rate 
university." 
, 
~ 
1 
1 
I
1 
~ 

the observer Tuesday, October 31, 1972 
.. 
SMC planning committee to fill vacancy 

warld briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Pittsburgh-8en. George McGovern charged in Pittsburgh that "for the first time in the history of this country, we have had a Presidential campaign with only one candidate." Frustrated by his inability to draw President Nixon into more active campaigning, the Democratic nominee sharpened the tone of his attacks on his Republican opponent. 
. Chicago-At least 44 persons were killed and more than 320 injured 
Monday morning in the nation's worst rail accident in 14 years when 
one Illinois Central commuter train crashed into the rear of another. 
The accident occurred when a new double-decker train, backing up 
after overshooting a station stop, was hit by an older commuter train 
coming into the station. 
Ottowa-Early returns in Canada's federal election showed prime minister Pierre Elliott Trudeau's liberal party holding its own in Eastern Canada and making some inroads in traditionally con­servative Atlantic regions. Two hours after the polls closed, unofficial tabulations showed liberal candidates had won or were leading in 64 districts out of 264 represented in the House of Commons, while the progressive conservatives had captured or were leading in 49 districts. 
an c.ampu• taday 
12:00 a.m. til 12:00 p.m. -Halloween 
II: 00 a.m.-lecture, pollution, james j. gumbleton of general motors, albert pick hotel, south bend 
7:00 p.m. -lecture, jarvis tyner, library auditorium 

Dr. Donald Horning remains in serious C()•utition after suffering a he~:-~ attack Thursday night. 
Dr. Henry will speak Wednesday on prudence and ethics in politics 
Dr_ Edward L. Henry, President of Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, will speak on "The Role of Political Prudence and Ethics in Politics" on Wednesday, November 1, 1972, at Saint Mary's College, Carroll Hall, Madeleva Memorial, 7:30 p.m. 
An educatior for the past twenty­four years, Henry also served as Mayor of Saint Cloud, Minnesota from 1969 to 1970, and as Chairman of the Department of Government at Saint John's University from 1954 to 1969. He funded and 
directed the Center for the Studey of Local Government at Saint 
I • 
I 
John's University, and founded 
, both an Adult and Junior Great Books program in Saint Cloud.
r 
Henry has written two books on
t 
government-Metropolis, 1968 and
r 
t 
MA'tiNfE DAfLY abc GREAT STATES 
DOWNTOWN SOUTH BEND 
t 
r 
~ for th~.~~=::nn:a.:;;1 
I 
t story that now I• " a fascinating picture."-Rex Rfled 
A. GEORGE ROY HILL· PAUL MONASH PRODUCTION 
SLAUGHTERHOUSE 
r -FIVE .,.,... MICHAEL SACKS 
I 
RON LEIBMAN VALERIE PERRINE 
A UniYiflll PICIUII in TECHNICOLOR~ 
Feature Times 
1:45-3:45-5:45 7:45-9:45 
Micropolis in Transition. He is listed in the Who's Who in American Education and in the Outstanding Educators of America. Henry received his B.A. from Saint John's University, an M.A. in Political Science and a M.B.A. in Business Administration from 
Chicago University, and his Ph. D. in Political Science, also from Chicago University. 
Observer is publlalled daily during the college seme5ter ex. cept vacations by tl)e students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchaSed for sa per semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46!56. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
by Maria Gallagher Saint Mary's Editor 
Saint Mary's Planning Com­mittee will announce a new acting chairman tomorrow, President Edward Henry disclosed yester­day. 
The appointment will be made to fill the position held by Dr. Donald Horning, who suffered a heart attack Thursday evening. 
Although Horning remains in serious condition in St. Joseph's Hospital in South Bend, Assistant to the President John Hof em­phasized yesterday that the position will be a temporary one until Horning is again able to assume his duties. It is not known when Horning will be released 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllfftl 
...._ r:-•• _ ...-...~.m-~-'--­
_... "' ""'"'... 
Yesterday's story on the opening of the new Student Center in Regina Hall specified that "all Saint Mary's students are in­vited." The party is ot>en to both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
SPEND FOUR FUN-FILLED DAYS IN EXOTIC DETROIT 
Alternative plans of one to four days also available. We need volunteers to help swing the critical state of Michigan on Nov. 7 for George McGovern. 
We'll be doing serious work, but we'll have some serious fun, too. Transportation, housing, food are all FREE! 
Call the 
STUDENTS FOR McGOVERN 
office at the number below. If you haven't worked at all before or have worked everyday for the past 18 months we need your help now. It's 4 more days or 4 more years. CALL 283-8415 ­
STUDENTS FOR McGOVERN 
Tom Dooley Room, Lafortune 
from the hospital. 
Hof chaired the Planning Committee meeting Friday night, which he termed "routine," consisting mainly of reports from the Area Committees. 
"Some of them have showed remarkable progress in so short a time," Hof said. 
A great deal of discussion was devoted to the four-year nursing program proposed by Biology Department Chairman Dr. Clarence Dineen, but no con­clusions or recommendations were made. Henry revealed that manyquestions were raised con­cerning the program, and that the 
Discover the World on Your 
SEMESTER AT SEA 
Sails each September & February 
Combine accredited study with educational stops in Africa, Aus­tralasia and the Orient. Over 5000 students from 450 campuses have already experienced this interna­tional program. A wide range of financial aid is available. Write now for free catalog: 
Box CC40, Orange, Cal. 92666 
proposal was returned to its sponsoring committee for ad­ditional study. 
Standing committees of the Board of Regents will make thier progress reports to the Board on 
Friday, November 3. 
~BOAC 
CHRISTMAS! Europe and Back $213 Call Clark _
283 881 0 for details 
._, 

.---~----------------------~-----------------------------------------------------·-----------­
Tuesday, October 31, 1972 the observer 
3 
October 31 to pass without peace 
unresolved problems. These officials would not discuss last Thursday. Thieu of South Vietnam opposesby Bernard Gwertzman Hanoi, continuing its campai~n the nature of any messages they Kissinger, who is President the treaty once Washington-and Nl"w York Times News Service have exchanged with Hanoi. It Nixon's chief foreign policy ad­
of the last five days, agam Hanoi hammer out final details. 
was understood, however, from viser and an architect of the set­
Washington. Oct. :10-­criticized the United States for not The administration, however,
reliable sources, that the White tlement, said that "Peace is at
Adminstration officials said today being willing to sign the agreement remained sensitive to criticism that they remained confident that tomorrow, as Washington had House has used several channels hand" and that the settlement that Kissinger had raised hopes of 
including Mowcow and Paris, to could be achieved "Within weeks
North Vietnam would not allow the apparently said it would try to d?. an imminent settlement but that 
assure North Vietnam that it was or less."
passing of its deadline for a peace Despite the sharp statement~ m nothing seemed to have happened
not reneging on the nine-point Another official said the time
signing tomorrow to set back the Hanoi and Paris by North VIet­since last Thursday. But a key
agreement: rather, it was only frame was between two to six
chances for an Indochina set­namese spokesmen, key ad­official said there should be "no 
seeking to take care of details and weeks, depending, in , on how
tlement within the next few weeks. ministration officials here seemed hysteria" over the situation. 
Officially, the White House relaxed about the situation. They ambiguities that had arisen as the agreement was scrutinized here
repeated that although a basic said privately that Hanoi had nine-point agreement had been carefully avoided making Oct. 31 and in allied capitals. reached with North Vietnam for a an ultimatum, and they hinted that A high administration official 
said that the "basic trends" of the
cease-fire and political settlement, they had received some kind of 
current situation remained the
there could be no signing until one assurances that North Vietnam more negotiating session was held would agree to the additional same as outlined by Henry A. 
Kissinger at his news conference
with Hanoi to clear up some negotiating session. 
Blood drive organizes here 
Pete Meade, co-ordinator of the after Thanksgiving vacation. expand the accomodations to be The efforts of students such as this one resulted in over $350 for Sr. campus blood donation drive, Meade initiated the campus able to handle from 600 to 800 Marita's school. announced yesterday an blook drive last spring and the students. organizational meeting for student response overwhelmed the The Red Cross Volunteers Wednesday, Nov. 1, in room 127, campus facilities. Stephan Center sponsor the drive and this year the 
Shakespeare Marathon 
Nieuwland Science Hall. accomodated about 500 donors and Fort Wayne District volunteers are Volunteers are needed for many students had to be turned handling the donors. South Bend is recruiting, setting up facilities, away. Among the first to donate in the Fort Wayne jurisdiction. 
nets $350; breaks record 
publicity, typing, and escorting the blood last spring was King Ker­Being a national organization, Red by Patti Shea Ullinger and Vince Wagne"l",students during the drive. The sten. who wondered if the Red Cross can transfer the blood another coordinator, hope to have
drive is scheduled for Nov. 30 and Cross would accept "immortal wherever needed. Staff Reporter the record included in the Guinness Dec. 1, the Thursday and Friday blood." This year Meade plans to Meade pointed out that blook is Notre Dame set a new world's collection of world records.
used for many medical purposes. record and raised over $350 for It is used to treat shock, for those Sister Marita 's day school during a Describing the marathon's goal
Art conference to convene undergoing surgery, for those four-day Shakespeare marathon of raising $300, as the "basic reason for the insanity," Ullinger 
severly burned, for anemia, and in that ended yesterday, according to childbirth. Meade also noted that Rick Ullinger, marathon coor­noted he was more than satisfied
with photographic society 
the average person has 12 pints of dinator. with the final total of $350.63. blood and that 48 hours after Volunteers read Shakespeare's Added to $700 that Alpha Phi by Janet Longfellow sixteen slide projectors, four donating one pint he still has 12 plays for 100hours, one minute and Omega has raised in previous 
movie projectors and special lights pints. . ten seconds during the outdoor projects, the money from thestaff reporter together creating both a visual and Meade stressed the importance marathon organized by the Alpha marathon will be donated to Sister The 36th Annual Mid-America auditory concert. Finally, there of the organizational meeting and Phi Omega service fraternity. Marita's day school in South Bend. 
College Art Association Con­
will be interesting listening in the remarked that contributing to the One volunteer, John Rusche, "Mostly, the money will be used ference is being held this week Field House Friday, at 8:00 p.m. program is "a real concrete way logged over 41 hours of reading to pay for lunches and books for the 
from Thursday, November 2, children at the school," Ullinger, a
with some contemporary and someone can do something for throughout the marl}thon including 
through Saturday, November 4. 
original musical compositions someone in just a 1little time." a 19-hour stretch 'according to volunteer worker at the school,The conference is held every fall 
performed by Dan Goode. Ullinger. explained.
and for the first time is at Notre Dame. In addition to this year's art program, the Conference of The Society For Photographic Education is meeting jointly with MACAA. 
The MACAA is composed of the college art departments, faculty, and graduate students from twenty-four member schools in the mid-section of the United States: extending from Arizona to Penn­sylvania and from the Gulf of Mt•xico to Canada. Its puroose is to provide an opportunity to discuss the mutual problems among art schools, and now those of photography schools included for the first time this year. 
The MACAA Conference in recent years was held at Bowling Green. the University ofWisconsin at Madison, and the University of Iowa. Now is the first time in thirty-six years that it will be held at Notre Dame. Professor Thomas Fern of the Notre Dame Art Department claims that the University has received a very special honor in being selected for the Conference site. 
Professor Fern is the President of the MACAA and is responsible for unifying the many facets of this year's program. However, he insists that. "My staff deserves most of the credit for the organization of the program." 
The major portion of the meeting will be held in the Center for Continuing Education. Numerous prominent speakers will initiate discussion on subjects such as: Art History, the content of today's art, and relationships between the artist and art gallery in middle America. 
Professor Fern urges people to attend the special exhibits that will be shown in galleries by both faculty and students. Of special interest to the students of Notre Dame will be three evenings of artistic entertainment. Beginning Weenesday, November 1st, at 8:00 
p.m. Joseph Haydn's famous Mass in D 3 will be performed in Sacred Heart Church. Thursday evening at 8:00 p.m. there will be an "Electric Stereoptican" in Washington Hall consisting of 

~[ATTENTION \'OUNG LOVERS l~ 
· wherever you are .f. 
~ 
In a nationwide survey· one companysold diamonds for less than anyone else. 
Guess who? 
It didn't surprise until we sell you a completed diamond us. When you've ring; savings and all. And, Vanity Fair been in the dia­gives you a guarantee on the ring ..tnd 
mond business for the savings. In writing. 

more than fifty Send for our new 1973 catalog. I_ }\as years, you have a 40 pages of rings and diamond jewelry pretty good idea where all in color. It's free and it speaks for 
itself. 
•Survey available upon written request. to find that we averaged a healthy 
~--------,
50% less than the others. And the sav­
\lmitV.lflirDitunontl~
ings held up, whether the others called 
1 1
themselves retailers, wholesalers, dis­55 East Washington St.,Chicago, Illinois 60602 counters or dealers. 
I I 
How do we do it? Easy. Vanity Fair 
1 Name I 
begins by importing its own diamonds. Then our craftsmen perfnrm every step I Address I 
I City State Zip I 
I I
School,_______________ 

'•.' 
OBSERVER 
COMMENT 
TuesdayI October 31 I 1972 
America!s Children You gotta pay the price 
i.,.ry lutkua 

Last year's election for Student Body President ~as _u_nique in a lot of ways, but unique in a very s1gmf1cant way for me. Bob Kersten, at the time a pre-med Soph from Walsh, ran for SBP-actually that should be SBK (Student Body King). As King 
R. Calhoun Kersten, he swept the election in a fashion that was without precedent at ND. His campaign was brilliant and witty and unquestionably successful. 
Bob won, but that's not what I'm getting at. In winning Bob defeated a multitude of candidates. From all noticable evidence, the motives of those candidates were different from Bob's. The other candidates were the "serious politicos" that Notre Da~e ha~ a habit of producing._ (Perhaps serious poht1cos 1s a too harsh and unfall' categoriz~"''on of these candidates, because there is no oft.. ..:;e in­tended here. Yet it best describes the vein of student political involvement that runs throughND.) 
Nonetheless, these candidates by and large had established the SBP's job as one of their dreams, their goals. It was one of those things you shoot for and one day hope to reach. But as that day of realization grows closer and closeryou become more serious, more concerned, more energetic and more worried. It becomes a passion. And when failure interrupts a dream, it is a traumatic and humiliating experience. 
The State is Set 
So, this is the type of arena I walked into last year. 
The tensions were high and the feelings were raw to the bone after a long and rough campaign. Thus, election night-post returns-was a time of frustration, release, emotion, and planning. Not to mention a certain quality of despair that was in the air. 
After the returns were announced, my assign­ment was to get from the candidates their reactions to the election and to find out if they were going toi throw their support to Kersten or Paul Dzeidzic, the two orimarv victors. The campaign headquarters pffered a mixture of relief and sorrow, failure and the ugly silence of disappointment. But it was one headquarters <that will remain unnamed) that evok.~ the g~t reaction from me. 
I hope to be a journalist when I graduate. I've always wanted to be one and this has been my dream, my goal. And it was this election night that left the greatest impression on me that I've ever 
daane•bury 
r 
. ~ 
received in journalism. I may never receive one 
that proved to be as powerful as this one was. 
Needless to say, I don't think I'll ever forget what 
happened that night. 
In this one headquarters, I found the defeated 
candidate. He looked beaten. The eyes were red 
and still wet with the tears of an unrealized dream. 
He was tired and mad--frustrated and disappointed. 
It was a sight that I had never really seen the likes of in my life. It was my first run-in with the effects of defeat. 
"I've lost," he said 
As I began to offer my question about who he would throw his support to, the candidate stared at me with his wet eyes and hollered something like why can't you leave me alone. I've lost, he said. 1'he last thing I remember him saying was "You Goddamn reporters can't leave anyone alone." Then he left to receive the consolation of his friends who stayed with him even in a time of disap­pointment and failure. 
It was a tough time not only for the candidate, but for me. It forced me to reevaluate everything I ever thought about reporting and journalism. It forced me to question both my values and motivation. It isn't my purpose to bring grief to people. I don't want to cause them the kind of pain that I saw in the eys of that defeated man. But it is the duty and obligation of journalism to bring the truth to people. It is the duty of the press to tell the people what is really happening. But often in that quest for truth and in the effort of keeping the people informed, events like this throw a wrench in the works of your emotions. 
The Ups and the Downs 
Since then I've come to realize how tough jour­nalism really is. It can go from the heights of glory and praise to the cellar of despair, loneliness, and confusion. It can go from the excitement and grandeur of an interview with a candidate for President to the pain and sorrow of a .mother's tears as she looks over the body of her dead son. 
There is pain and joy, sacrifice and work, but there is never a time of boredom. There is always something happening. Always something wreaking havoc on your emotions. But that's this business and that could be why I'm doing all this. Yet for a very long time I'm going to be thanking that defeated candidate for SBP who forced me to figure out what this is all about. 
FarWhat lt!s Warth 

Robbing the 0-C student 
dan ruan• 
After three winters in Northern Indiana I never thought it would 
please me to anticipate a fourth season of bitter cold and ill winds but 
it is a warm feeling to know it approaches. ' ' 
And why would anyone in his right mind look forward to the advent 
of such an environmental disaster? First two qualifications must be 
noted. A. I live off campus. B. I not only enjoy riding by bicycle to 
and from eampus, I find it to be quite economical and healthy. 
An~ further qual.ification is in order. I like to do it safely, and on 
?ccss1on I must do .•t late at. night because of my work on this rag. It 
Is bad enough puttmg up With the motorists at Angela Boulevard and 
Notre Dame Ave., and even the pack of dogs that hang out near 
Howard St. and St. Louis Blvd.; but when you have to worry about a 
bunch ?f n~ighborhood punks who have pulled three or four strong arm 
robbenes m the space of two weeks, as well as decorating a student's 
~eck with swirly scars of razor blade origin, all of the health, en­
Joyment and economy you seek from bicycling isn't worth the risk. 
_If any of you have looked at seasonal variations of crime rates, you 
wlll,understand ~~Y I look forward to winter. Simply put, the thugs 
don t want to wait m the cold for some mark to walk or ride a bicycle 
through the weakly lit sections of Notre Dame Avenue or the streets 
that intersect it. ' 
Not the Worst, But ... 
Obviously this section of South Bend is not the worst residential or 
crime ridden area of the city. Since September 1, I don't think I've 
seen a squad car on patrol more than twice, except on home football 
weekends. 
This obse~vation isn't limited to any-set time such as early morning 
or late at mght. I've had occassion to go home in the middle of the 
morni!lg, early and late aftern~n, and at different times in the night 
sometimes as late as 2 a.m. I ve seen the city street sweepers more 
often than the police. I should say they were in the area Pitt weekend 
to make an arrest after some woman stabbed her common law 
husband to death. 
It is more than just my neck that is concerned here. Weekends mean 
that ~any stu~ents are on the streets either walking or hitching to 
Frank1es, Lomes, South Bend or to off campus parties or friends 
homes. While it is generally assumed that there is safety in numbers: 
there are always stragglers for muggers to prey on, just as jungle 
predators single out the weak, sick or slow prey. 
So what can be done about this other than to bear with the freezing climate of Northern Indiana? Individuals can stick to well lighted areas ~nd not take foolish or unnecessary chances like traveling alone or takmg short cuts. South Bend police might make themselves a bit more noticea~le by finding a happy medium between letting the area know they exist, and not becoming a threatening or oppressing symbol of the system. It's a tough medium to find, but it is possible. 
Make OC and SLC Work for You 
On the home front there are three a venues to approach the problem. The University, the Off Campus office and the Student Life Council. Notre Dame, while not responsible for the safety or other concerns of off campus students, should assist these students if there is any move to seek University support. One way of doing this is to use its influence to have South Bend look into better patrol patterns, especially on weekends and for an hour each side of the library closing time. 
Itis up to off campus students to get the off campus office into action and to take the gripe to the University. The Off campus office might also explore some sort of shuttle service staffed by off campus students with cars, or organize a petition for more police patrols. 
The other avenue of getting the request to the University is the SLC. Jim Hunt is the representative to see. Each day he wheels into C-3 from way out on Lincoln Way West so he may not be fully aware of the situation. 
Pidgeon-hole him and make sure he represents off campus. 
There are very few considerations the University and on campus students need to have towards the off campus resident. Listing ac­ceptable housing for minors is one, safety is another. These are 
f~arry trudeau 
I# Oif/CR N&~ tHIS .4P%1?NOON IN CH/Cr/60, SENATO!e ftc 6/JIIe/i!N CHI1N6eP H!SMINP. 
~ 
:r'p ttKE" ro tHINK I HII/J 
probably the most important. 
Cold weather is coming, and it will probably be a bit safer. There will be several months before the streets once again become areas of high interaction. This is plenty of time for the Off-Campus and SLC people to prepare something to improve the safety situation. Otherwise off-campus students will not be getting robbed by muggers alone. 
the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Ann Therese Darin Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Asst. Ad Manager: Patti Strobel Elusiness Secretary: Ceil Popovich Subscriptions Manager: Art Ferranti Production Manager: Joe Wilkowski Circulation: John Woods Night Editor: Kathy Schwille Ass't Night Editor: Robert Baker Sports Night Editor: Stan Urankar Features Night Editor: Jane O'Donnell 
Pictures: Jerome pirate of penance: mark 1. niederkorn 
Editorials printed In The Ob­server reflect the opinion of th writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they ar• not to be taken as editorial com­ment. 
IN sr. /..()()15 THIS HORNING, 5&NflrO~ ~ GEOR.G& Me 601/&RN
J /WN()()NC£1? HIS AN~J? 
: posmo/11 ON Per£/VSE
! cvrs. \ 
Alli?R£551N6 ,q PReSS CcWr&Rc/11~ ilfc.58-J.qTO~ .s~t~· "1r IS TIMe ro cvr 1H& r-41 .4NP WilSiE 
r.20f? cXTml/,tJ61/NT 
iftUmRY SffNJJ/11/o! 
IF Et-6CTc/4 I ,PUJJGc 
1f) PO JIIS/ 7HI1T/"' 
~ 

l I 
t 
,-I 
~ 
t Tuesday, October 31, 1972 thte observer 5 
J 
VielVpoint J 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh 
Father Hesburgh's program 
for racial justice 
(Copyright New York Times t972> America's national psyche is troubled today,although we hide it in multiple ways. We name-call, hide behind code words, pass the buck. Some even say that all goes well, that there are no real problems. But there are. The New York Times editorial en­dorsing McGovern for President spoke of the need for a "peception of the things that are wrong with America-politically' socially. economically, morally-as well as the things that are right; and a sense of priorities that gives precedence to human needs and public integrity over the panoply of wealth and the arrogance of power." 
Both candidates say that this campaign offers a choice on real issues, as never before in this century. However, most campaign rhetoric tends to be negative and does not always get to the heart of the problem. No one likes to look at the heart of darkness. The real solutions are painful. Even speaking about them is not the best ~ay to make fri~nds and win votes. But the Issues do remam. 
Wh~t are th; real problems that face good reason by our mo:;t liberal President. Browns have been abuted as the new slave labor on farms. The ·blacks, who did not come here willingly, are now, more than a century after their emancipation by Lin­coin, still suffering a host of slavelike 
inequalities. 
we don't even like to talk about this fajlure and its consequences. When someone does talk about some aspect of it seriously as for example, Daniel Moynihan in his report on black families, he is accused of bad motives and excoriated for his seeming prejudice--even though the latest census report amply justified his findings. (The number of black families headed by women jumped from 20 per cent to 30 per cent in the last decade.) The reason for this sensitivity is as complicated as the problem itself. One cannot consider seams in a seamless web. Families reflect opportunity, or especially, the lack of it, in housing, employment, health education. There were few Moyhihans around to comment when blacks were not allowed by whites to marry when black women were abused freely by white 
Am.enca today ·. The most neglected ones are masters and when black brothers and 

m~mly domestic: pover~y' welfare, urban bhght and lawlessness, flight ~o ~he suburbs, une~ployme.n~. cost of l~vrng, taxes, hou~rng: political. corruptron .. unstable f~m1ly. hfe, ~ducatron and b~smg, drugs, d1ssat1sfactron among ethnrc groups~to name. a few· The most spectacular m­ternatr~nal performance, and ours has been truly spectacular of late, cannot b~ry .or obscure. these .human problems or JU~tify neglect m so.lvmg the.m. They are all, m a 
real sense, mterlockmg, part of the total 
organic structure and reality we call the 
quality of American life, or lack of it. To the 
(•xtent that they are unresolved and con-
sisters were bought and sold like farm animals, even some by some of our founding fathers. 
But the point I really want to make is that because of our failure to cope with color differences as we did with differences of religion and nationality, we now have uniquely complicated domestic problems. I speak frankly as a white man to the white majority. Equally frank talk will be needed between and among the colored minority groups 
· M · p bl 'th c 1
aJor ro em WI o or Most of our domestic problems are 
tinue to exacerbate millions of Americans exacerbated by our problem with color. In daily and mar their lives, America lives in fact, until we recognize this and begin to contradiction to its highest expressed ideals understand that failing to cope with color of liberty and justice for all. means inevitably failing to cope with other domestic problems, we are con-tJ.S.. World's Greatest Melting Pot demning ourselves as a nation to constant 
We are not the only nation in the world to lowering of our quality of life, to a continual have these and other problems. What is negation of the hopes· of an increasing unusual is that the most affluent nation in number of Americans who are not without the world should have them at all. It much hope of real equality. Moreover, while suggests that we have used our wealth this is very much a minority problem in its badly, as indeed we have; that we have had pinch, it must be very much a majority some poor leadership over many years and problem in its solution. The white majority worse priorities, as indeed we have. Yet in does not like to face the real cost of the none of these have we been unique in the solution. world. Other nations have had equally bad Few white Americans have taken time to or worse leadership and priorities, and, study the real dimensions of the color while some have not squandered the problem, except insofar as it touches them enormous sums that we have, it is probably personally as whites . In the context ·of our because they have had less wealth than we. segrated society, it touches all too few very 
There is something unique, however, acutely. First, look at the numbers. About about America and its domestic problems. one out of every six Americans is colored. This becomes most apparent when others Twenty-two million are black, about 12 attempt to compare us with Sweden in million are brown, about a million are health or with Britain in crime. Most yellow, somewhat less than a million are nations are reasonably homogeneous in red, and then there are variations of all their populations, whereas America is the these colors--for a total of 36 million greatest melting pot in the world for all Americans. This means that there are more races, religions, colors and nationalities. In blacks in American than whites in Canada, fact, we, as a growing nation, encouraged more browns in American than white this: "Give me your tired, your poor ... " is Australians in Australia. A problem of this proudly inscribed on the Statue of Liberty at dimension cannot be ignored or Band-aided the entrance to our greatest port. By and over. It should be noted parenthetically that large, it should be said that this human not all of these colors are equally unequal. mixture has enriched American life. The Generally, reds are at the bottom of the lists of our greatest artists, scholars and totem pole of inquality, browns are in the scientiests are dominated by those who middle and blacks, whose problem is larger were born abroad and came here tb~ seek and has because of visibility , received more opportunity and freedom from persecution. attention in recent years, are on top. Many are those who entered as paupers a~·. Yellows are a very special case. died as millionaires. Our Horatio ~ · story has never been so true elsewttrf€jn Country At Historic Crossroads· the world. All of these, whatever their nonwhite 
Failure to Function colo~. are people, Americans and citizens, 
and they are probably growing in numers 
Despite all of this success, the meith~ pot faster than the white majority. Con­failed to function in one crucial area. sequently, the longerl~this problem remains Religions and nationalities, however dif-unsolved, the larger and more complicated ferent, generally learned to liv"''together, it becomes. Also e more intractable even to grow together, in J\n}erica. But become most. of :our other domestic color was something else.' Reds were problems, whidh are so enmeshed with the murdered like wild animals. Yellows were problem of colqr. Tlile time for solutions is characterized as a peril and incarcerated en. now~it should have/ been y~terday, when masse during World War II for no really the problem was Slllaller. ' 
I 
. 'f ,_,.; ',) 
J 
1 
1 
l 
l 
l 
l
For example, there were about three Niggers.'.' The title comes from a remark 
l
million blacks in America at the time of Emancipation. In fact, Americans at that time began to solve what was a much less complicated problem than we have now. The laws that were passed to guide the transition from slavery to citizenship were generally as good as those we have passed in the last decade. This forward movement was abruptly negated when Hayes sold out the blacks to gain the Presidency, which he 
)lad lost by popular vote to Tilden and could regain only with the electoral votes of the South. By pulling the Army out of the South and disregarding the Reconstruction legislation, Hayes ushered in almost a century of apartheid in America. Those who downgrade the effect of Presidential leadership in this area, or pooh-pooh the lack of it, should study the disastrous effect of Hayes' attitudes, words and actions on the hopes of black americans. 
I believe that we are at a historic-crossroads today, much more momentous than that of a century ago. We have wit­nessed enormous progress for colored Americans, espedially blacks, in the sixties. 
The whole ~pward thrust may be reversed · in the' days ahead as white A~ericans tir~ of the effort, or are ,imp~tie':lt with the tenacity of the. problem, the prrce It reall~ demands of whites everywhere, not only m t~e South. Never was Santa~ana's f~mous dictum truer: Those who Ignore hi~tory are condemned to repeat its mistakes. 
Education Illustration of Problem 
Consider i a!moment how the problem of color complicates some of the domestic problems mentioned above. Education is the best issue to begin with, the real issue hidden under the phony issue of busing. As an N.A.A.C.P._pamphlet on the matter was 
entitled: "It Ain't the Busing; It's the made by a white woman. 
When one tries to find an effective ap­proach to the total problem !of racial justice, education is by all odds the best. View the vicious circle: A black youngster is generally born into an atmostphere of poverty and failure. He grows up in a poor house in a poor neighborhood. He has a 30 
· per cent chance of not having a father at home to guide him, and, if so, his mother most often work to support him, which deprives him o{ the parental education that most white youngsters take for granted. Then he must go to a dismal ghetto school which resembles a jail more than a school and, often enough, functions as a custodial rather than an educational institution. All around him the atmosphere is polluted, not just bad air and water, but a bad human situation in which to grow up: failure, violence, drugs, prostitution, stealing, unemployment, aimlessness, ;hopelessness. 
Our black youngster may be bright, but no matter. Many of our eager politicians of both parties, lusting for office, obliterate whatever hope he might have of leaving this ·impossible situation. Even if busing is the . mly way out, and the courts find that he. is indeed being deprived of his 14th Amend­ment rights to equal opportunity in 'education, busing will not be available to him as a means of recressing his inequlity, if these politicians have their way. If good white heighborhood schools are good for whites in the suburbs, then bad black neigh­
'borhood schools are in no way good for blacks in the ghetto. But no matter: Blacks souls' not be allowed to contaminate out nice white schools, or . neighborhoods; or businesses, and they don't have enough 
political power to challenge the whi* majority anyway. So, prejudice spealr 

the observer Tuesday, October 31, 1972
6 
Local McGovern camp optimistic 
by Jim Ferry Staff Reporter 
The McGovern campus cam­paign is "beginning to catch on now that its in the eleventh hour," according to Greg Hannigan, McGovern-Shriver phone poll <"oordinator. 
"First of all," Hannigan com­mented. "we're very grateful for the Ohsrrvt>r endorsement of 
George McGovern. We were very pleased with the.way it was written and especially with the content. We realize that one editorial couldn't cover all the issues, but the basic dichotomy, the-basic difference between the two men was presented." 
Hannigan then explained the Pxtent of the campus McGovern effort. Voter registration was started at the beginning of the war. He stressed the fact that all ~·oters were registered, regardless of stated party affiliation. 
He added that "it was clearly against the law for Tricia Nixon and other first family members to refuse to register voters as Democrats' or Independents in their respective states." 
The second part of the campaign effort was the foot-canvassing of the whole of St. Joseph County. Also included in this second phase of the campaign was a com­prehensive phone poll of registered St. Joseph County voters with a special emphasis being placed upon Independents and Democrats. 
"we're counting on the help of a couple hundred volunteers with the phone poll. It is the most accurate poll possibile with almost 100 per cent accuracy. What it amounts to is three hours of boring work asking voters about their presidential coice and the issues that affect them." 
"The basis of everything we're doing is part of the McGovern campaign strategy of identifying the voter, giving them the facts, and getting out the vote." 
Hannigan then told of McGovern plans for a Detroit "blitz" this weekend. "Our own polls have shown that a change of 2 per cent in the 
Michigan vote would swinj.:'lhe state to McGovern. The Republican National Committee has supposedly written off Michigan as a lost state because of 
VWA officials cited as 'guest lecturers' 
1971," available for use by in-
Richard L. Mugg, vice-president tPrested domestic and foreign of corporate marketing for business schools form the In­Volkswagen of America, Inc, and tercollegiate Case Clearing House Baron K. Bates, VWA public of Boston. is the result of a student relations manager, were presented initiated . six month collaborative with mgraved plaques officially effort between Volkswagen of designating them guest lecturers America and three Notre Dame hy the graduate division of the Notre graduate business students: Dame College of Business Ad-James O'Sullivan, William Hake, ministration. and Patrick Cahill. 
The plaques were presented by Based on information obtained the college in recognition of the from published sources and from eontributions by the two VW executives, and authored by Pxecutives and Volkswagen to a the three students, the case deals recent Notre Dame production of a with the problems confronting business case analysis. The Volkswagen in the U.S. during the pxecutives' participa~d in an six months immediately following analysis of the problems presented President Nixon's imposition of the in the case with graduate business 10 per cent import surcharge on students at specially convened August 15, 1971 and invites reader Friday morning classes. formulation of a marketing plan 
The case method, pioneered by for the company during the 1972 the Harvard Graduate School of model vear. Business Administration and Francis Yeandel, Professor of currently utilized by business management, noted the schools in both the U.S. and .willingness of the VWA · abroad. comprises a key element executives to voluntarily par­in the Master's program in ticipate with students in an in­business at Notre Dame. depth analysis of their company 
According to faculty sources at focusing on the most difficult the university, the Notre Dame period in its recent history. business school was also the The members of the case-writing largest single contributor of new team pointed to the cooperative business cases to the In-<'ffort established between tercollegiate Case Clearing House themselves and VW as one means which publishes and distributes of bridging the often noted gap case material to colleges and between the theory of the universities during the year. classroom and the reality of the 
A variation of the case method business world. 
was adopted by VWA for use in its Mugg noted the challeng~ and 
d<'aler training program several the fresh insight provided by the 
years ago and. according to Mugg, identification, analysis, and 
has proven to be highly successful suggested resolution of company 
technique in the continuing problems by well educated, 
Pducation of dealers. business oriented observers out­
"Volkswagen of America, Inc., side the company. 
Communist VP candidate to speak tonight at 7:30 
efforts being made there in McGovern's behalf. The blitz will consist of hopefully busing 100 ND students up to Detroit this weekend to work as canvassers in a get-out­the-vote-drive. The buses, places to stay, and food will be provided. Free time activities will also be provided at night. A student can participate for one day or until Tuesday." 
wrong again. We're confident of carrying several swing states and especially California. The Republicans are stifling the results of their Pennsylvania poll taken last week. As we campaign, we rely on the polls taken by Mr. Caddell, whose accuracy has always come within 3 per cent of the actual vote. The polls confirm our resolve that if Nixon is re­ministrations in granting amnesty after the end of the war. This past Saturday in Ohio, Nixon said that as long as he is President, he will "never, never grant amnesty" to draft dodgers or deserters. Is this the consistency that the Republicans are looking for in a president?" 
He felt that the Watergate in­cident has taken a while to sink in. 
The Society of Ujamaa in con­junction with the student union academic commission is presenting on Tuesday, October 31 at 7:30 p.m. in the library auditorium a lecture by Jarvis Tyner. Vice Presidential candidate on the Communist party ticket. 
Tyner will speak on the 
"Communists Party Role in 
National Politics" in 1972 and on 
the topic of "Black Nationalism in 
America." Tyner who is also the 
only black vice-presidntail can­
didate is a former teamster and 

active union and in the civil-rights movement. Jarvis, a former chairman of th£ 
W.E.B. du bois clubs is presently the chairman of the Young Workers Liberation League, and a member of both the political and central committees of the U.S. Communist party. He is also the executive director of the World Federation of Youth, and a member of the co-ordinating 
committee for the People's Coalition of Peace and Justice. 
Recently a visitory to North Viet Nam, Tyner in Hanoi saw first­hand the effects of the U.S. born· bing and blockade of the ports. 
When asked about the recent elected, it'll have to be in spite of Yankelovich survey conducted by us, and not because of us." the New York Times and Time Hannigan felt that George magazine, which showed a McGovern was unfairly thought of "massive lead in potential elec­as "changing his mind." toral votes," Hannigan replied that 
"In October of last year, Richard the polls are wrong. 
Nixon was quoted in the U.S. World"One of the most frequent and News Report as saying that he casualties of the McGovern will be "very liberal" in regards tocampaign is the credibility of amnesty after the Vietnam war isestablished voter opinion polls. Its ended. In January, he said inthe feeling of the McGovern Newsweek that he was going to workers that the polls will be follow the precedent of other ad-
St. Mary's room changes 
may simply specify the hall andAny Saint Mary's student who type <i.e. single, double, etc.) ofwishes to change her room or room that she would like. Students
roommate for the second semester will have the opportunity to do so in are also asked to list the room­
mates they would like in their newthher hall office beginning at noon room.
Monday, October 30 and ending at All students given a room4:00p.m. on Friday, November 3,. 
Students may obtain a room change must move before leaving for the Christmas holidays
change request from the current <December 21 at the latest).
hall office and return it there However, no one will be allowed tobefore the closing date. A reason move until December 1.
for the change must be stated on Old room keys should bethe form. 
returned to the present Hall
Requests for specific rooms will be considered, but if the student Director; new keys may be ob­
tained from the new hall.
has no particular preference, she 
SMC Senior Class to meet tonight 
Commencement speaker op­21, Ethel Kennedy with 16, 
tions, graduation activity com­Margaret Chase Smith with 15, and mittee members, and dorm area Katherine Hepburn with 12. representatives will be considered Katherine Hepburn was the senior at a meeting of Saint Mary's senior preference while both faculty and class at 6:30 Tuesday, October 31 administrators chose Marg;uetin Little Theatre. Mead. 
Top votegetters in the All seniors are asked to attend nomination for a commencement and help decide these matters. speaker were Margaret Mead with 
He noted that recent polls have indicated that where a shift towards McGovern has taken place, the most frequently cited cause is the Watergate incident. 
Hannigan felt that there was "a good chance" on Tuesday. 
Food services have plans lor holiday dinners 
by Mike Murphy Starr Reporter 
With the fall holidays ap­proaching the Notre Dame and St. Mary's dining hall operations have planned special dinners. 
The first of these, a Holloween celebration, is tonight at the two Notre Dame dining halls and features decorations as well as an enhanced menu which includes such favorites as spice cider and pumpkin pie. 
Plans of the St. Mary's dining hall establishment are less specific but they may include provisions for a special Election Day dinner. The question of such an Election Day special on the Notre Dame campus is still open to con­sideration, Director of Food Services Ed Price has asked the Notre Dame dietician about the feasibility of such a project. 
The dining facilities of both Notre Dame and St. Mary's plan to hold their annual Pre­Thanksgiving dinners on the night of November 20. The occasion will entail all of the traditional decorations and foods. 
THE PARTY CANDIDATE. 

From one beer lover to another. 
'' 
~--------------------------------·-------------------­
.. 
Tuesday, October 31, 1972 the observer 
7 
Jazz Band opens season Monday 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band will newly established 'big' jazz band Fedele Volpe, trumpet, Neil Melodons, had achieved a national educator groups throughout the 
present its first concert on Mon­composed of 20 students from the Gillespie, piano and Katy Johnson , reputation and have performed at country, writes for Down Beat 
day, November 6th, at 9 p.m. in university at the present time. It vocal. the Kennedy Center in Magazine and is currently jazz 
LaFortune Student Center. was begun this fall on an ex­The second event of "Jazz at Washington, the Krannert Center editor for the Selmer Bandwagon. This informal concert will mark perimental basis under the Nine" will be a lecture-discussion of the University of Illinois, Future plans for the Jazz Band the start of a weekly series of jazz direction of the Rev. George on "The Current Trends and Chicago's McCormick Place include the establishment of an 
events, "Jazz at Nine", in Wiskirchen, C.S.C. in order to Practice of Jazz -an Overview" by Theatre, Down Beat Jazz Festival Improvisation Workshop where 
LaFortune. Alternating with the provide jazz experience for in­Father Wiskirchen at 9 p.m. on in Soldier Field and at many the art of improvisation will be 
Jazz Band will be smaller jazz and terested students. The program is Monday, November 13th in colleges and universities. taught; the formation of one or 
jazz-rock combos and sonicalijr open to any interested and LaFortune. The group has appeared to more smaller jazz combos; the illustrated lecture-discussio~.· ·of qualified student. Fath~r Wiskirchen, Director of standing ovations at the Collegiate introduction and experimentation 
jazz practices, directioqf ·and Soloists at the first concert will Jazz Bands, a Holy Cross priest, Jazz Festival every year (except with jazz and improvisational a• tists. This series is being JOintly include Nick Talarico and Don comes to Notre Dame after 17 the first) since its inception. music in the Liturgy; and the sponsored by the Jaz.fB'"and the the Banas, trombones; Jeff Noonan, years of teaching jazz at Notre Father Wiskirchen is a recognized formation of a Rock Creativity 
Collegiate Jazz Festival. guitar; Charles Rohrs, tenor sax; Dame High School in Niles, authority on educational jazz, has Workshop. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Band is a Matt Brandes, baritone sax; Illinois. His group there, the lectured extensively to music 
SB Arts Center to present special programs 
featuring works .by Tiepolo and and plays the music learned from transmits to her audience the life the most outstanding folk singer in On Sunday, November 5th, at 3 Piranesi and "16th and 17th her father as it was passed down style of a strong and resourceful the Tri-State (Kentucky, Ten­
p.m. in the South Bend Art Center, Century Printmakers of Northern from one generation to the next. people. nessee, West Virginia) Ap­two programs of special interest Europe", featuring works by She has also traveled through the Mrs. Eversole has presented palachian Folk Festival held at will be presented as the in­Durer, Kembrant, Callot, and Appalachian region collecting concerts at schools, churches, and Lexington, Kentucky. nauguration of "Mini-Membership Gellee, which will be on display songs in the true folk tradition of for organizations throughout Everyone is invited to take Month". through November 12 in the Main listening and learning from the Kentucky and Indiana. She has advantage of their "Mini­
Dean Porter, Curator of the Gallery of the Art Center. people of the mountains. made several radio and television Membership" in the South Bend Notre Dame Art Gallery, will give Nancy Eversole, the " Ken­Accompanied by her mountain appearances and was featured, in Art Center during November by a lecture on "Personal Ob­tucky Woman", will present a dulcimer, Nancy brings the music concert, at the Indiana University participating in these and other servations: 16th -18th Century program of Appalachian song.; and of the southern highlands to life. at South Bend Folklife Festival. In i)roglrams offered. For in­Graphics". The lecture is in stories for children. Born and Whether it be in the melancholy July of 1972, she was selected as formation, call 233-8201. conjunction with the exhibition of raised on the tales and music of the songs of the coal mines or the "18th Century Italian Prints" Kentucky mountains, she sings lilting "play party" tunes, she 
Democrates cancel torchlite parade after Chicago train wreck kills 44 
Chicago Mayor Richard J. Daley parade after two commuter trains President Nixon also cancelled a 
canceled tonight's torch light crashed, killing over 44 persons planned campaign swing throughand injuring hundreds yesterday Chicago yesterday. morning. Floyd Kezele, of the ND-SMC
]ack-o-lantern The parade, a traditional McGovern Shriver Committee 
Democratic pre-election festivity, stated last night that the busses was to have been headed by which had been chartered to take
contest 
presidential nominee, Senator Notre Dame and St. Mary'sGeorge McGovern. Vice­students to the parade would not 
Student government is spon­presidential contender run. soring a jack -o -lantern judging Sargent Shriver and Senator Students who have already paid contest tonight in the bookstore Edward Kennedy were to have fares for the Chicago trip may stop 
parking lot -behind Badin Hall. been featured along with by the. McGovern Campaign
The contest will be held at 11:30 McGovern and Daley. headquarters licated in LaFortune 
according to Jim Roe, public Citing the disastrous accident, Student Center or call 8415 to pickrei a tions director. Daley Cdlled off the rally. up their payments.
Any jack -o -Ianter carved by a Notre Dame-st Mary's student is eligible for the competition which will be judged by T.C. Treanor, art curator. 
Prizes will be announced at the judging. 
SOCIAL COMMISSION PRESENTS A TRADITIONAL FRENZIED BRAWL 
i.e. an 
ARMORY PARTY!! 
Relive those good old rolling-over falling-down days of the FIFTIES at the 
Hot Rods & Bobby Socks HOP (S) 
your ticket entitles you to 
10 ROUNDS with your hosts BUD & MICK 
Bop to the tunes of Flint and the Jon Potter-Music shows 
FRIDAY NOVEMBER 3rd -8:30-12:30 
at the SOUTH BEND ARMORY 
(free bus service will be available) 
$2.50 per person 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW AT S.U. TICKET OFFICE 
I r' ~ -', I r ' 
ATTENTION SMC SENIORS MeetinQ 6:30 Tues. Oct. 31 Little Theater MANADATORY Attendance 
deems vote any questions call 4104 

~~ -~~--------~---­
• 
the observer Tuesday, October 31, 1972 
B-P trips Stanford for league tie 
Dillon, Holy Cross roll toward showdown 
by Stan Urankar Flanner 6, Keenan 0 Dillon -t2, Sorin 0 
Two of Interhall football's three This loss eliminated Keenan This defeat was the worst 
divisional races are still up for from post-season competition for registered in an IH contest since grabs entering the final week of the first time in three years. The Keenan demolished Carroll, 35-o in regular season action. Breen­game was a tight defensive battle 1969. Though Sorin did become the Philips beat Stanford Sunday that wasn't decided until the last first team to get a first down on the afternoon to force a tie for the top thirty seconds. Big Red this season <three for the spot in League Three, while Dillon game), it wasn't much consolation. and Holy Cross both registered 
The High Risers' Chuck Stark 
Senior Randy Stasik controlledimpressive victories in preparing 
intercepted at the Keenan 40 with 
the aerial attack, completing allfor their League One showdown 
2:30minutestoplay. Witha pair of 
five of his passes for 154 yards and
next weekend. key penalties aiding the drive, three touchdowns, with speedster
F'lanner moved to the 11. From 
Morrissey, meanwhile, backed Paul Michaels scoring on bombs of 
there, sophomore Frank Flan­
67 and 13 yards.
into the League Two championship 
nagan followed a perfect block 
as they were enjoying a well­
from George Savage and bolted 
earned week's rest. The home with the winning score. Halfback Jack Likata rushed for 
Marauders were able to sit back 92 yards, including a 40-yard and watch both Farley and touchdown jaunt. and freshman Cavanaugh suffer stunning upsets, Craig Tigh scampered across the assuring them of their third lloly Cross :1-t, Off-Campus 6 goal line from 35 yards out. 
straight conference crown. Heserve QB Mike O'Neillcame on to pass for the final score, a three­
The Cros~ broke out of their 
yard toss to tight end Pete
scoring slump with a bang, as they
Brl't'n-Phillips U, Stanford 0 Dziuban.
had never scored more than seven points in a single game till Sunday. Sophomore quarterback Mark 
Recovering from an early season Anzelon keyed HC's attack, loss. B-P's victory forced another passing for a pair of touchdowns confrontation between these same and running for another. 
Alumni IN, Pangborn-Fisher 0teams in two weeks. Freshman Tom Foristel got things going 
Both of Anzelon's scoring aerials Halfback Rich Soeder againwhen he recovered a fumble at the came to tight end Pat Bathon, from starred in his team's secondStanford 30 in the first quarter. 
10 and 35 yards out. The signal­triumph. Racing for 74 yards inTwo plays later, quarterback Jeff caller then helped his own cause by seven carries, the junior fromBurda tossed a 25-yard scoring bursting from cap Pittsburgh scored on a 37-yardpass to Brian Hickey for a 6-o lead. in the six to another Holy Cross drive. jaunt and a five-yard pass from Jose Alonzo. The freshmanThe Klunk brothers, Ed and quarterback then accounted forDave, combined for the final Halfback Bob Cimino tallied the the final score, hitting split end
markers, withh the former bolting HC Jim Logan with a
remaining six-pointers. 42-yard touch­15 yards for the touchdown, and the 
Cimino scored on a four-yard run, down aerial.
senior co-captain adding the extra 
then combined with halfback
points. 
George Duke on a 35-yard option play.
B-P's defense contained the passing of Stanford QB George Zahm 1:1. Farley 0 Packer, as cornerman Charlie Anzelon has been filling in for Donnally and linebackers Dave injured junior Mark Hildebrand, Bertke and Darryll Holder each who has missed the last two games intercepted a pass. End Greg with a severely sprained ankle. A pair of first half fumbles 
Pappariella and middle linebacker However, Cross captain Gary spelled the end of Farley's title Livio Parolin were the keys to the Caster says, "We expect hopes. The losers let the ball get defense, continually pressuring Hildebrand to be ready for Dillon away on their first play from 
Packer into hurried throws. next weekend scrimmage, with Zahm linebacker 
" 
Rich Collins covering the loose pigskin. Two plays later, Phil Weckworth scored from the five.
Freistroffer gets game 
A fumble at the Farley 18 was pounced on by defensive end Mark Wurzel midway through the second 
ball for TCU defense 
period. Freshman Pete Gott­After a victorious Saturday Schlezes intercepted a pass sacker then notched the six­pointer on a four yard run.
afternoon, awards day returned to against TCU while Marx was Cartier Field Monday as coach Ara making tackles all over the field Parseghian made presentations to and inspiring the defense by his 
standout performers in Notre fired-up play. Pomarico, a junior Dame's 21-0 win over Texas guard, has been a solid performer Student ice Christian. all year for the Irish and was 
part.icularly outstanding Saturday. fix available Defensive end Tom Freistroffer, 
Guard Joe Borbely and Students who purchased seasonwho suffered a knee injury against linebacker John Mariani were hockey tickets may pick them upthe Horned Frogs that will sideline named the offensive and defensive Wednesday and Thursday from 9him for the rest of the season, was players of the week, respectively, a.m. to 5 p.m. at the Gate 10given the game ball for his efforts on the preparation teams. ticketwindow of the Athletic andin containing the Frogs' strong Convocation Center, according to
Wishbont'-T attack. Defensive back Mike Townsend ticket manager Don Bouffard. 
was awarded two helmet stars for 
In addition, students wishing toTal'klt· ;reg Marx and halfback his pair of interceptions against buy single tickets for individual
Ken Sd1l('zes were honored as the TCU while Schlezes, tackles Kevin home games during the seasondef<·n~.i • players of the game and Nosbusch and Dick Maciag, and may do so at any future time.
Frank P::marico was named the linebacker Tim Sullivan earned Student tickets for all home games game':< top offensive player. one star apiece. 
are sold for $1. 
Notre Dame Texas Christian game stats 
Teem Statistics Individual Statistics 
NO TCU NOftE a.IAMI:. 
fiR~r rc WNS ... . 22 8 RUSHING -Eric Pt>nick. 16 carrit>s ldr iSS ya~ds, I TO: A'tt Best, 7 lor 110, I Ru~.-·tf"t,t, ........ . 16 3 TO; .Andy Huff. 12 for ,.,; Tom ,Oemt>nts. 1-fw 51; lim Rooll. I lor 37; Jdln P~h..... lfW ·•···•··· 5 5 cieszltowskl. 10 ror 35; d..-y otm!M._s rotml.t.~ltor 4; ~ KOI'I\IJIB"· Pt~na!i, ·:L .••• 1 0 1 tor 4, Ron Goodman, 3for -:r, Tota. fi. .t.i:Z. ! ~~ . .
452 116
"~RI..l5 HllSHIING. PASSING -Tim Clepnts,,~,of 14, .' , lifu, f lllterceJiti8nll; _Cliff Lnst Ru .hlng . . .. 20 4li Brown. I out of 2. 14 yarl1s. · •· · ··r, · . Nrl Ru.-llng ..... . 432 ,70 RECEIVING -~Jim Roolf, liar..yards, I 11>; ~ CreaneJ, URi' 41; Way11e
.TIM~:~ ARRIED .. 63 .a 
BuUock, I for 14. • ·., · · 
16 16
PIISS~:S 
PUNTING -Brian Dollcrl'Y. 5flJr 3:i'Sts·· 
Cumplr·tecl ....... . 5 6 RETURN YARDAGK,...:I>Un!Jf.tim n . 4l )'alllj Ke,!! .SI:hl~ I Had ln·r~ecl .. I 3 for 21. Kickoffs: All'dy Kllft.l r~ J . . •e ~1\rfJ,Z'fur ·7;
YARDS l'ASSING .. 88 62 
Ken Scblezes. 1 lor 8. J 
~TOT Af ~·LAYS 70 62 
lntt'reep(lons ..... 3 I TB~·ifll'l 
Yards ftetui-ned .. • 7 0 RUSH INt. ..-Mike LuttreU.-13 c S'-.2lllllllli~~ J!Wtll!l 
tiuN·rs............. . 5 ID Perry Senn, I~ for 14; Ronll6e WHo~~, lor-)'k Billi:.lll~t.-QitT.~-.UIJt1P .1'···'!111& Average .. 35.0 404 l'unts Returned .. . 5, D 'III.PASSING :-Perry Senn, -.1of ..Jr~rcrs,a~;.ll ····­
'iatddktamed .. . 63 D 0out oll; M1ke Luttrell, 0 tlitt of I.. . • ...._. ...,__.R~EIVING-Sadftor.1Jor2f)I•._J......,...,.JJ4-~_....,..r
Ji~~~..~.~~-~-~-~: 
)120 .3/SO lor 10; Lane Bowen, 5.• 
"NALTIES1 PVNTI'NG -Greg . "YARDS •. , .•....•, .. RETURN YARDAGE -
lfiuMBI.IfiLOST ... Llttletoo, I for 21:. lnterceptlont: 
••p••u·w.,.,. 

Dillon's Randy Stasik led the Big Red to a 42-0 rout of Sorin in Sunday's lnterhall football action. The senior quarterback completed five of five passes for 15-t yards and three touchdowns. 
Lt>ague One W L T Pts St. Joseph 12, Cavanaugh 8 Dillon 4 0 0 8
The losers marched 65 yards on Holy Cross 3 0 1 7their opening drive, with Bob Fiala Alumni 2 2 0 4scoring from the eight and Kevin 
Sorin 2 2 0 4Ford running for the conversion. 
Off-Campus 1 4 0 2But, as Cavanaugh quarterback Pangborn-Fisher 0 4 I I
Greg Corgan put it, "Then we decided we didn't have to block any more." Lt>ague Two W L T Pts 
St. Joe kept blocking, and gave Morrissey 3 0 1 7 QB Tim Hagan enough time to hit Farley 2 2 0 4 Tom McMonagle with a pair of St. Joseph 2 2 0 4 touchdown passes for the victory. Zahm 2 2 0 4 
Cavanaugh I 2 1 3 Lyons I 3 0 2Scoring Leaders TD XP TP Lt>ague Three (Finall W L T Pts
B. Walls, Dill. 5 2 32 P. Breen, Morr. 4 6 30 
C. Tigh, Dill. 4 6 30 Breen-Phillips 3 0 6 
P. Bathon, HC 4 0 24 Stanford 3 0 6 
H. Bigham, Far. 3 2 20 Keenan 2 2 0 4 
J. Likata, Dill. 2 8 20 Flanner 1 3 0 2 
R. Soeder, Alum. 3 0 18 Grace I 3 0 2 
Harriers finish third 
by Tom McKenney Behind the Irish in team scoring W<'re Indiana State, with 102 
The Notre Dame cross country points, and Purdue, with a team team finished a respectable third total of 160. against intra-state competition in the Big State cross country meet The Notre Dame harriers will hosted by Purdue University last see their next home action this Friday. The Irish ran against an coming Sunday at 3:30 on the Indiana "Big School" field that Burke Memorial golf course in a included Indiana University, Ball meet sponsored by the Chicago State, Indiana State and Purdue. Track Club. 
The Notre Dame total of 95 points was bested by runner-up SC excursion Ball State, with a team score of 45, and by meet champion Indiana University. The Hoosiers captured adds features the title with a fine team effort that saw all 5 of the Indiana runners 
Two breakfasts and a steak dinner,finish among the top 10 for a team as well as $15 worth of tickets to score of 32. Sophomore Steve Disneyland have been added to theHeidenrich took medalist honors 
existing attractions of the
for the Hoosier harriers with a cheerleaders' proposed trip to the course record of 23:43. 
Southern California-Notre Dame football game December 1-3.
Indiana looked particularly sharp in this meet and is favored to The travel package also in­take both the Big Ten and National cludes, for $195 round trip air District titles. Notre Dame will be transportation from South Bend to meeting the Hoosiers in that Los Angeles, hotel accomodations, National District meet and · the a pre-g~me rally party (courtesy Irish are currently preparing for of the L.A. Alumni club), tran­the eventual rematch, in addition sportation to and from the Los to training for their regular season Angeles Coliseum, ND-USC game encounters. tickets, and a post-game party. 
For the Irish, senior Dan Dunne The charter fDght will leave had the best finish, placing sixth South 8eDd ~t 9 a.m. on F)iday, with a time of 24:20. Marty Hill ~~r Jst, a!KI..wW ~.w <25:05) and Jeff Eichner (25:08) SoUth Bend at 10 p.m. on Suaday, were next, capturing 15th and 16th December 3rd. place, respectively. Jim Hurt Payment for the trip is due 
(25:21) and Mike Housley (25:47) Novembel' 1st. For further in­rounded out the Irish team scoring, formation, contact Charlie finishing 22nd and 36th . Morrison <202 Holy Cross> at 3122. 
....,,JU,,-~. ... _ ·--­
' I I ~ \o I. I 
