
....------·-------­
On The Inside 
SMC awarded POE P grant 
... page 2 
Security reports... page 7 


serv!ng the notre dame -st. mary's community,
Vol. VII No. 57 Tuesday, December S, 1972 
IU seeks grading policies reform 
ND watches progress of credit-no record proposal 
ttH'mher of the student-based Academic pn•sent ABCDF systems.

by David Rust This is one of the most immediate 
l'olie~· Committee and the body whose The trniversity of Notre Dame operates
Staff Reporter drawbacks of the liberal pass-fail. and
philosophy Hichardson sees as "anti­its grading system on the undergraud~te 
other universities around the country have 

grades.'' lt•vel almost exclusively on the A. B, B-, IC,
lnoiana llniversity's Academic Policy graduated students whose lives· were
Onll' a fraction of all I.U. un­t·-. D. F plan. with pass-fail options
t'ommittt-e is facing off against the significantly changed for the worse
dergt:adua tes made response to the rpserved for juniors and seniors. 
t 'niwrsitv's Educational Policv Com­through their uncounseled dependence on
rderenoum. however. Under 4000 rpstrieted to one a semester and good o~ly
mittl't> in ·a struggle over grading 'systems pass-fail.
rdunwd their referendums to the APC. for non-major electives.
that eould have effects on many in­Out of the -1000. 3775 indicated their l'<lss-fail eourse results are kept on The Council has contacted several :-;t itut ionsof higher learning in Indiana, · prPferenee for retention of some kind of n·eoro. 11·hile eredit is granted to thqse l'OIIeges throughout the United States thatinduding Notre Dame. 

pass-fail option. whereas abolishment of 11 ho pass. and failures both deny cretlit have experimented with pass-fail andFour rdorms of the current I. U. grading llw sanw brought only 148 votes. <md l'ffect a change in the academic related systems. accoridng to Rosini. The!'\Stt'lll are ht-ing offered by the Academic Ilmrever. the more specific issue ran a a\'erages. results as they have been received by the l'olie~· Committee tAPC'l. They are: l'loser race. The EPC backs an "ABC­.\rgunwnts for and ngainst thepass-f9il. Council will be released after Christmas,--An ,\BC-no eredit trecordl system in l'r:tsun•" s~·stem which eliminates pass­pass-no record and pass-erasure systems hut there are alreadv indications ithat 11 hieh students transcripts record only fail but allows students the option to decide :mel rlerivations thereof. and those pro and unlimitPd pass-fail is perhaps not wise.
l'reoits t-arned bv a student when he 11 lwther or not they want to be graded t·on eoncprning grades themselves. are "WP wrote to Brown Universityreeei\'PS <ln A. B or C for his course, and 11ithi11 the context of I.U.'s ABCDF, or \'ndless. l'aried :md complicated. In short. t Providence. Hhode Island) ; a bout theirn·eorrls nothing if he is given a grade receive credits good toward a "certificate the l\1·o opposing camps on the desirability pass-fail." said presidnet Rosini. "TherehPiow C. 

of ;1ehievenwnt" if they get an A. B or C. of grades can be said to argue oVer thl'l' offer as much of it as students like.
--l{eplacing the pass-fail option with a and an ''l'rasure" if they are given aD or '' hether or not grades are an effective way The first semester it was offered there was pass-no 1·ecord option. this eventually I' of characterizing a student's ability iq a <t largl' surge for that <pass-fail) option.

extenrll•d to all parts of a student's Erasures are left off the transcript but gil'l'll subject. and then applied to llis but with lhl' passing of semesters the total curricula except his major. 

not off the record. and four erasures, 11hole academic history as it is perused by chrindled precipitously."
--Extension of the withdrawal deadline under the EPC plan. would demand pt>rspective schools and employers. as Hosini concluded that "There's to the last week of the course. 

sonwthing wrong--I suspl·ct that they· <the

automatically a decision of that student's opposed to the grade-backers' belief tlt
--Maintenance of a file on each student suspension or probation, while ten thert' is no more effective way of painti g studentsl didn't haven't too much coun­containing a list of courses completed, seling to being with."

erasures would be cause for dismissal. each student's academic portrait th n
selections of the student's <self-appraised) The APC'. while advocating a philosophy standard grades. Hosini and the Council reserving

best work, and recommendations of the are 
ll'hich requires only a credit-no record Tlwre are definite dangers in institution their opinions until the report is fullyfaculty and others. 
system and extensive evaluations by of t•xtensive pass-fail options. ', readiy and the results of their recent
A referendum distributed among 

tPaehers of students' performances, "What many people fail to realize about survey. containing 1111 questions aboutstudents enrolled in the Arts and Letters n•cognizes the fact that Law. Medical and the whole pass-fail idea," said Academic eotmseling. academics, freshman year
college of I.U. at Bloomington showed that and distributed to
(;raduate schools look for the most part Commisssioner and Accademic Counf.il and other topics, 22595 percent of those responsding to the 11 ith clisfavor on pass-fail courses, nwmher Ed 1<~1\is, "is that Law, Gradu~te upperelassmen, are compiled.
referendum favored retention of pass-fail lll'l'sented its own ABC-no-credit system. and 1\IPdical schools look down on recoros This report should also be ready foroptions, and five percent did not. 

This proposal barely made it past the 11 ith :llot of pass-fail courses. Sometimes n•Jpase after Christmas. 
This was the widest gulf in any of the El'<"s recommended ABC-erasure plan "thpy'll take any passed course under the "If the information from both reports n•ferendum's results made available to 11 ith the referendums' sparse student pass-fail system. convert it into a C, a~d indicates that a different svstem of Thl' Obser\'er through I.U. student n•sponse. t:l24-1046, with the others voting then figure it into the grade point grading is needed," said Rosini, "we'll government president Jeff Richardson. lor the extreme credit-no record or the average. propose it." 
Thieu reportedly ready to sign peace treaty 
by Sylvan Fox concord to be established under the cease-fire pre~ise date of the signing of a cease-fire agreement.
(c) 1972 New York Times News Service 

agreement would not function as a coalition govern­Ike. 15 has been mentioned frequently in recent days, nwnt. hut today spokesmen for Thieu called that date 
Saigon--A Vietnamese source close to President In discussing Thieu's plans. the source provided "ri1.Hculous and misleading" and dismessed it as "pure Nguyen Van Thieu said today he was convinced that somp new details about the evolution of the proposed specfulation." the South Vietnamese president would sign the cease­cl'ase-fire agreement now being worked out in Paris by This afternoon. the semiofficial newspaper Tin Song rire agreement that is expected to emerge from the !'resident Nixon's national security adviser and the denounced stories that appeared in the New York nwetings in Paris this week between Dr. Henry A. North Vietnamese Politburo member. Tim]es and Le Monde quoting South Vietnamese 
Kissinger and Le Due Tho. liP eon firmed what had been widely understood--that murlces as having said a cease-fire agreement would The comment was the strongest thus far about what ther turning point in the negotiations came when Hanoi he signe d around Dec. 15. Thieu would do in the event that a cease-fire accord is oropped two key demands: that Thieu be removed and The newspaper said "highly placed government reached in Paris. and it came as Sen. Charles Percy, that a coalition government including Communists be sou~ces stressed that no cease-fire would be able to 
H-Ill .. told South Vietnam's foreign minister, Tran Van established in Saigon. t:1ka place around Dec. 15, that the Times and Le Lam. that Saigon could not count on continued In early October, the source said, the North Viet­1\londe were attempting to "create a falsely optimistic American support if the current peace effort were namese negotiator, Le Due Tho, presented Kissinger a atmosphere." rejected by Thieu's government. \5-page draft of a cease-fire agreement. T~e source who predicted Thieu would sign the 
Percv. in an interview, said he had told Lam that the Although numerous clarifying appendices have been cease-fire agreement said there were a number of American people were solidly behind the current peace added to this document, it remains without substantial possible dates. each bearing historical significance. initiative and that there would be "no support for South alteration as the basic formulation of the cease-fire Among these dates was Dec. 19. It was on that date Vil'lnam if this chance. on the terms laid down by agreement now unnder discussion in Paris, the source in Jtl4li that the Vietminh launched its war on in­l'residen Nixon. was missed for having a swift end to said. oependence against French colonial rule. That phase the war." The fact that the document was prepared by the of the Indochina war ended in 1954 with the defeat of 
There had been speculation in Saigon and elsewhere North Vietnamese has added to Thieru's wariness the French at Dienbienphy and the signing of the that Thieu might refuse to sign a Washington-Hanoi about it. Genha accords. eease-fire agreement and decide to go it alone. "A text prepared by Le Due Tho," the source That date is favored by the Communists but is likely 
However. the South Vietnamese source, reflecting commented "is not going to be favorable to Saigon." to be opposed by the South Vietnamese. according to thP pressure building upon Thieu, dismissed that While this source expressed confidence that Thieu some Vietnamese sources. possibility and said he believed the South Vietnamese would ultimately sign the cease-fire agreement, there 

.,
president would sign the agreement despite his were reports from other sources that the President denunciations of some of its elements. might adopt what one called "a middle way"--neither 
"Thieu is a realist." the source said. "He will sign accepting nor rejecting the cease-fire plan in any ultimately. He does not want to break with formal way. According to these reports, Thieu would Washington." not sign the document itself but wuld agree to a 
The source explained that the South Vietnamese separate declaration of agreement "in principle" with president realized that to reject the cease-fire the terms of the cease-fire accord. agreement could lead to an irreparable rupture with These sources belive that if Thieu pursues such a the United States and the possible end of U.S. support eourse. the National Liberation Front might well adopt for South Vietnam. the same approach. Thus Washington and Hanoi would 
Thieu's primary objection to the cease-fire terms, as sign the cease-fire agreement itself while Saigon and they are currently understood, is that they do not teh Vietcong ;;gned an agreement in principle with it. provide for the removal of North Vietnamese troops Before signing anything, however, Thieu is expected from South Vietnam. The Saigon government to appear before the National Assembly to explain his estimates that there are some 300,000 North Viet­position fully and to seek the legislative body's ap­namese troops in the South. According to American proval of his plans. estimates. the number is more like 145,000. Todav Thieu met for several hours with his National 

' 
I Thieu also has sought to guarantee the re­Security Council to hear a report from Nguyen Phu establishment of the demilitarized zone between North Due. the Saigon emissary who met with President and South Vietnam and has demanded assurances that Nixon and Kissinger in Washington last week. a tripartite national council of reconciliaton and Still a lively source of conjecture in Saigon is the 

the observer Tuesday, Decmber 5, 1972 



warld briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

New York--Henry R. Sentner of Seagirt, N.J., and John E. Kilcullen of Brooklyn, were charged with the kidnapping of Emanuel Gambino, the 29-year old nephew of Carlo Gambino, the reported Mafia chief­tain. Emanuel Gambino disappeared on May 18 and authorities believe he is dead. The two suspects surrendered to the federal bureau of investigation.. 
Saigon--A source close to President Nguyen Van Thieu of South Vietnam said that he was convinced Thieu would sign the cease-fire agreement that is expected from this week's meetings between Henry 
A. Kissinger and Le Due Tho. The comment was the strongest yet on what Thieu would do in the event that a cease-fire accord was reached in Paris. 
Washington--The Supreme Court refused to set aside a lower court decision that New York State's off-track betting system was con­stitutional. Voting 8 to 1, the Court ruled that there was no "sub­stantial federal question" raised by claims that offtrack betting diverted revenue unfairly from the state's 11 harness and flat tracks. Associate Justice William 0. Douglass dissented. 
an campus taday 
4: 30p.m.--seminar, kinetic upper jawin reptiles, dr. thomas frazetta, galvin 
life science auditorium  
4:30p.m.--lecture,  system  
management  of  f-15,  lt.  gravis,  
memoriaI library  

8: OOp.m.--lecture, the trouble with negroes, they strayed too far from jesus, john o. killens, memorial library auditorium 
8:00p.m.--lecture, baltic studies conferences, dr. penikis, 1121 notre dame ave., south bend 
Dr. Corwin speaks on Mexican immigration 
Dr. Arthur Corwin, University of Connecticut Professor of Im­migration Studies, spoke last night to a small group on immigraion in the Memorial Library Auditorium in the first lecture in a series on Mexican-American relations. 
Last night's lecture, "U.S. Immigration Policy Toward Mexico." was divided into four parts. or theories, each part a different exemption policy. 
Corwin said he sees the U.S. policy towards immigration as nothing more than a pattern of events. 
lie explained, "This policy is without any legislative basis, it does not even have a Congressional Code. The resulting policy was not even intended, it is just a history of exemptions." 
He views these four stages of historical patterns as: first, the Open-Door Policy, indicative of the illogical but overriding generosity typical of the U.S. towards im­migration; second, the Commuter­Phenomenon Policy, present at a Exemption Policy that allowed a lowering of restrictions to ease the great cheap-labor shortage of the 1920's. and further. today's "God­Neighbor Policy" which allows relatives of immigrants to enter the country upholding the American ideal of "family unity." 

Throughout his talk, Dr. Corwin stressed the absence of any structured law controlling im-­migration. He claims, "In the last ten years there have been 453,000 immigrants from Mexico. There is nothing that the visa control can do about it, ... it has snowballed." 
Dr. Corwin expressed hope for the passage of the Nixon-favored Hotina Bill currently in Congress, which. if passed, would make "aid in the immigration of illegal aliens, 
Corwin: our stages or hiring them as employees, a 
in U.S. immigration policy toward felony." 
Mexico. Even if passed, Dr. Corwin said 
time when the immigrants com­that laws could not be strictly 
muting on the Mexican border enforced due to lack of significant 
were allowed to come over to the enforcement of the part of certain 
U.S. side daily or seasonally as local. governments. "businessmen;" third. Labor-He underscored this observation 


SMCawarded PDEP grant 
Dr. Edward L. Henry, President, Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, announced last week that the In­diana Criminal Justice Planning Agency has awarded St. Mary's a $30.000 grant to participate in a Parent-Delinquent Education Program. 
The St. Joseph County Probate Court is acting as sponsor on 

behalf of St. Mary's and the College's Department of Education has been working closely with Judge Francis X. 
Kopinski and Chief Probation Ol'ficer Michael Carrington, both of the Sf. MJoseph County Probate Court. in coordinating this program. 
The major thrust of the Parent­Ddinquent Education Program thereafter referred to as PDEP) , is fo assist youth to develop positive self-images. To ac­('omplish this, the Department of Education of the College will eombine its resources with those of other community groups, private and public. in a jointly conducted program of prevention and rehabilitation for a group of twenty five boys and girls between the 

r ages of 12-15. 
PDEP is concerned with junior high school students, their truancy behavior, the conditions con­tributing thereto, and the planned approach to the total situation. Students will be referred to the Program Director for admission into the PDEP by th.e Judge of the 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the l'niversity of Notre Dame and st. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchesed for sa per semester ( 14 per year) from the Observer, L'ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second clns postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 

Juvenile Court through the tutoring. Provisions will be made Probation Department for acts of to stimulate hobbies of individual juvenile delinquency. interest. Counseling will be on an 
PDEP aims to prevent individual and group basis. A delinquency. The student will physical culture program will be receive individualized instruction an intPgral part of the day. in academic areas, as well as continued on page 6 
rND/SMC THEATRE PRESENTS EUGENE IONESCO'S 
THE KILLER 
Dec. 8, 9, and 10 at 8:30 p.m. Washington Hall All seats $1.00 Washington Hall Box Office open 4:00-6:00 dailv Reservations 283-7054 {not included in season ·ubscription) 
by questioning the use of boarder certain work." patrollers in charge of restricting As one patroller told him, immigration. He said that "These people are only homing "Boarder Patrollers are still pigeons; they will not travel all the perrnissive...especially in the way to Chicago." Southern Texas boarder districts, This semester there are two where local authorities continue to lectures in the series on the subject let them over into the US for of the Mexican-American War. 

OFF CAMPUS CLODS 
Pick up your Mardi Gras Raffle Books Now 
Call Tony Malench 1691 607 Grace Tower 

ANYTHING WRONG WITH: 
Listening to a couple of fantastic bands? 
Finding someone to dance to them with? Drinking anything you can think of? Staying up late and missing Carson one or two nights a week? So Now You Know Where You're At 

280~ SOUTH 11th ROAD 
NILES, MICHIGAN -49120 
Phone-683-43SO 


-------------------------------. 
Tuesday, Deqember s, 1972 the observer 




Rumsfeld nominated as NATO~ambassador 
by Linda Charlton 
(C) New York Times 

KC'y Biscayne. Fla. --President Nixon announced today that he would nominate Donald Rumsfeld, Director of the Cost of Living Council. to be the next United States ambassador to the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty (lr~anization. 
1\umsfeld. whose impending ;1ppointmcnt to an unspecified but "major" new job was announced lwre over the weekend, will suc­ct•t>d llavid M. Kennedy, the for­nwr Trcasurv Secretary who has hdd the NATO post since April, 1!172. 
Tlw announcement was made on hchalf of Nixon bv White House Press Secretary Ronald L. Ziegler. Ziegler said Kennedy had "p:-,;pressed a desire to return to 
the President's request that he "rPmain available to take on spccial assignments from time to lime." 
No successor to Humsfeld was nanwd today, but Ziegler said that a nPw director for the council would be named. The fact that a successor was not named im­mPdiately. Ziegler cautioned, "would not lead you to any l'onclusions wha !soever regarding Tlw Cost of Living Council" and 11 as "not meant to be a signal of <In~· sort" with regard to the status of \he Council. which has super­\'iscd the implementation phase two of President Nixon's Wage­l'ricc Control Program. 
l{umsfeld. who represented the suburban Chicago former 13th ('ongressional District for 6 1~ yPars before becoming 
J)ircctor of the Office or Economic Opportunity in May, l!lli!l. is known to be considering a return to politics. He is said to feel that a job such as the one for which his nomination was announced today, one that i,s essentially concerned with foreign policy, 11 ould round out his background to provide a firm base for challenging St>n. Adlai E. Stevenson in 1974 if lw so desires. 

Ziegler's announcement today stressed the importance of the post as this country's permanent rcpresentative on the NATO l'OUt1l'il. which carries the rank of <nnhassador. Nixon he said, "has from the very beginning of his l'n•sidency. attached the highest priori!~· to the strengthening and n•vitalizing of this country's alliance \rith our West European partners... and I think we all know that President Nixon regards the 1\,\TO ambassadorship as one of the tnost important of American 
I 

diplomatic posts in Europe... " 
llc added that ~he President felt Bumsfeld's "extensive and varied background in American domestic al'fairs will complement his ;1bilities as a 'negotiator and spokesman for United States in­terests in this n~w role, making him uniquely qualified to represent this eountry on the North Atlantic Council at a time when the U.S. :1nd Europe arel increasingly in­terdependent economically and sol'ially as well as militarily." 
Humsfeld. whol is 41 years old, headed the O.E.O. until December, 1!170. and served as counselor to the !'resident until b~coming director of the Cost of IJiving Council in October.I971 . Heis also a member of the White House Domestic Council and ol the Property Heview Board. Before being Piected to Congress in 1962, he had served as an i administrative 

Goldhallllller speakson teacher education 

by Bruce Petrovick Staff Reporter 
Dr. Keith Goldhammer, of the MSU education department, spoke yesterday at the Center for Con­tinuing Education on the crisis of teacher education in America. 
Goldhammer divided the problem down into the crisis of relevance, knowledge utilization 
and of under consumption of professional potential. In discussing relevance Goldhammer thought that the 

VISTA at SMC 
St. Mary's students will have the opportunity to investigate placement in the VISTA organization or in the Peace Corps on Wcdnesday, announced Bernice 
Ho~·.  Notre  Dame  campus  
representative  for  those  
orga niza lions.  

Hoy added that a special booth would be set up in LeMans Hall between 10:00 a.m. and 4:30p.m. on WPdnesday to take applications and dispense information on VISTA and Peace Corps spring and sumnwr programs. 
She mentioned that all majors \H'I'(' needed for volunteers and that math. English. government, psychology and sociology majors were especially needed. 
The final day for applications from Notre Dame students during the fall semester will be Dec. 14. i\11 students interested in either VISTA or the Peace Corps are urged to stop in at Roy's office, situated next to the Placement Office in the Administration Building. 
educational program for teachers was too systematic. He felt that teachers should have a good education as training for the 
problems they will encounter, before they actually have to react to one in a real life situation. 
In his opinion a teacher's education should not consist of little capsules of knowledge but of tools to handle the problems in­,·olved in educating people. A tcacher's function is to increase human potential. not just to pass on knowledge. 
(;oldhammer also believes that 
tcachers in America have vast 
;nnounts of knowledge, but utilize 
,·erv little of it when it comes to the 
acti1al practice of teaching. 
<;oldhammer felt cduca tors should 
change their emphasis from 
descriptive knowledge to ap­
plieative knowledge or knowledge 
"ith which a person can live. 
On the crisis of under con­
sumption of professhnal potential 
<:oldhammer made his point very 
dear \\·hen he said, "You get what 
you pay for." Everyone these days 
is saying we have too many 
tcachers vet in all schools the 
amount of pupils per class is growing and illiteracy and reading problems abound." 
Goldhammer wa~ of the opinion that we, not only as a nation but as individuals, spend money on many uncecessary items, and reinforced his point by saying, "We spend millions trying to confuse people that people don't really smell like people. this is why the men's perfume industry is flourishing. The crisis in American values has caught up with education." 
Goldhammer also believes that a general problem is that education nwy also be affecting the Pcucation of teachers. He feels that the problem lies with the reluctance to admit that the liberal arts. presumably the background of the ecucational system may be :11 fault. 
The liberal arts aren't relating to the problems of living, but are more concerned with academic discipline. He also felt that the liberal arts have become affected ". i th specialized narrowness, which he feels is against the basic eoncept of liberal arts. (;oldhammer gave his reasons when he said, 
"The individual gets to know 

Repli~a 

Hedl;rown 
CHRISTMAS BUSES 
Circle -O'Hare Leave 12/19 -20 21 1:30 pm Return 1/15 8:00 &. 10:00 pm 
Sign -ups at travel bureau-Badin Hall Have a cool day 


Now at special college discount prices. The old glass red crowns stood for fine gasoline for over 45 years. Now they are collectors items. Our beautiful red crown 
swag lamps are exact replicas, made so order yours now while supplies lasL of glass and painted just like the originals. Stop in today. 

TOWN & COUNTRY LIQUOR 
Town & Country Shopping Center 
They measure 16 inches in diameter by 18 inches in depth. The handsome swag chain is finished in brass. And right now you can get one for only $29.95. We have a limited quantity 
more and more about less and less, and so. isan educated ignoramus. This is the result of schools "orrying too mucQ ab'i)llt making a ready employee instead of a human being able to liv'-1 with himself." 
In closing Goldhammer said, "We have the technology to turn out the greatest teachers ever, but it costs money. we must wage l'ducation as we wage war if we are to cure the social problems of today." 

assistant to two Congressmen and had spent two years as an in­yestment banker in Chicago. 
Kennedy. a former Chicago Banker. was Treasury Secretary until December. 1971, when he was succeeded by John B. Connally of TPxas. Kennedy served as Am­bassador at Large until March 1!172. when he became the Per­manent Representative on the 
NATO Council. 

ANNOUNCES YOUTH CARD NIGHTS 
Friday, Dec 8. 
5:00-6: 30 in South Dining Hall 
Monday, Dec.ll 5:00-6:30 in North Diniryg Hall 
Get a free album of your choice for trading in a youth card from another Airline, or for buying a 
wwone. 
Personality A LAMB of a PER­SONALITY-soft and flexible to cuddle your 
foot--in a flock of gentle color combinations. 
Bred for flattering fit with blazer suits. 






Personality. 
Personality Shoes Are Available at: Shoeland, 
U.S. 31 North & U.S. 31 South, South Bend, Indiana Shoeland, La Porte, Indiana & Portage, Indiana Paul's Shoe Store 116 West Plymouth, Bremen, Indiana Swearingens Shoe Store, 
208 North Michigan, Plymouth, Indiana 
Baa!s Razzbury
THE OBSERVER 
He's not the kind you
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Dan Thornton Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
NEWS: 283-1715 

wind up on Sundays
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
Ed Ellis 

Tuesday, December 5, 1972 

Academic reform 
Major academic reform proposals are in the works at two of Indiana's largest universities--Notre Dame and Indiana University at Bloomington. The central issues on both campuses are miles apart however. 
The 1 -2 -1 Program 

At ND the controversy in the Arts and Ldters College Council is over the 1-2-1 curriculum revision. This program calls for completion of the major in the soph­more and junior years. The major sequence is then followed by a wide variety of interdisciplinary courses taken in the senior year. At first glance the 1-2-1 proposal seems like a subtle reform at best. Actually, this particular reform would mean a complete revamping of the fresman and sophmore years. 
A wide variety of electives not presently available to frosh would have to open up. In addition the intent system now employed in the freshman year would need extensive revision. Courses needed to enter majors in the sophmore year would replace some of the univer­sity requirements in the first year. The university requirements would then be completed in the next two years. Science and engineering intents do not enjoy complete substitutability among the various levels of frosh courses. Under the 1-2-1 program Arts and Letters intents would not have substitutability either. Clearly, this is a major overhauling of the current order. 
The senior colloquium is the clearest advantage of the 1-2-1 revision. It would provide an opportunity to take interesting courses when the student has the greatest background to bring into the subject. 
The greatest advantage, though, is the development of many student and faculty directed interdisciplinary programs. But the 1-2-1 revision has a stormy road ahead in the College Council. Dean Frederick Crosson supports the plan but is faced with a conflict of authority between the Arts and Letters College and the Freshman Year, which operates independently. The college alone cannot adopt the program without either the cooperation of the freshman year or some pretty heavy-handed politics. 
The IU Battle 
At Bloomington the fight is over an issue more fundamental to all students··­grades and grading policies. The "Campaign Against Grades" at IUB is trying to change the basic structure of the certification sytem used at IU and mos:t other colleges--namely the idea that grades represent a relative measure of achievement within a degree program. 
The issue runs much deeper than the question of grades or no grades. A university which takes seriously its roh~ as a degree certifier must develop som1e system for establishing that a student who completes a given program can ·do what the program has supposedly taught. Universities provide grades basically a:s a service to graduate schools. It is in­stitutionalized buck passing--the un­ctergradua te colleges tell the graduate schools (law and medicine most definitely included) that they can decide who is qualified. If the undrgraduate colleges simply certified the qualifications of the students they graduated, graduate programs would have to look to other, perhaps more realistic, indicators of the student's graduate school potential. 
The fate of the IU proposals is near certain death. The American higher education establishemnt considrs grades the "coin of the realm." Still the issues raised must be aired in the hope that the future proposals will be softened by the arguments that have passed under the bridge. 
John Abowd 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Letter... 
l•:ditor: 
In the past two years I have \'isited Notre Dame. and in the at'lermath of my visit this year I have hE'en criticized as to my m'Pr<lll attitude towards Notre Daml'. I have been criticized by a St 1\lary's freshman as labeling '\oil"(' I>mne a "Jock" school. I \\OUid like to make this letter an open <~pology to every student at \I>. 
!luring my v-isits to ND I have ;dwa~·s kidded mv friends that Pverything is "jock" orientated, :-;uch as ''Number One Moses" and ··Touchdown Jesus". But then, there are many things which are orientated towards the student :-;uch as the library. to name an excellent example. Notre Dame has an old tradition behind it just as <'very college does. This lr<~dition changes but not in the basics. Notre Dame has a great tradition behind it. It is respected football but also for academi-cs. I respect the tradition and am en­\'ious in some ways that Boston <'ollege doesn't have such a I radition. But I am also. proud of our tr<Jdition just as every student at ND should be proud of theirs. 
In dosing I'd like to wish Notre llanw the best of luck in 1'\'l'r~·thing. (1\ special good luck in the Bowl gamel I'd like to thank it for the peace and serenity and warmth it h<Js extended to me. I'd like to thank it for the memorable momPnts and the not so nwmorable moments. I'd like to thank it for the people, and most of ;ill I'd like to thank it for Notre Danw. 
Sinc<'rl'lv 
!\lark Pie~man 
B Sluth St. 
Apt. :1 
Brighton. Mass. 

As most campus crud knows, the noble mug pictured on the right has 
for several years now been subject to mis-identification as belonging 
to a certain Protector of Campus Sanctity at Saint Mary's College. As I 
observed once last year, the mug is my own, and I can assure 
l'veryone that I do not lend my mug out as if it were something entirely 
accidental to my being. In fact, it has been with me all my life, and has 
informed me that it is not desirous of a new appointment. 
Nonetheless. I have often been accosted by 
souls in need of a spiritual kick in the ass, so to 
speak. To enlighten young Christians at this fine 
school <I have been informed that there are 
indeed a few extant. though they are even in this 
day and age huddled in small cliques in crypts 
and catacombs! I once even published a few 
letters sent to me by fair maids and unfair gents 
who were for some reason or other in temporary 
distress. 

At that time. I invited still more letters, and of 
course the response was overwhelming, so much 
so that I considered using vacant Augusta Hall at 
SMC as my mail box. Unfortunately the very 
sound of the word "male" so shocked the nuns 
that I was never given a chance to explain that 
all my mail would have postal stamps on it, and ~ 
thus I was denied access to that box. I am 
currently using an abandoned convent down­
town. 

. Observing that my advice has such success among young Christian 
ctrcles. and further observing that I look more like a priest than my 
double. I recently resolved-to take Orders, so that my advice might 
now have the added value of Truth, since it would come from a cleric, 
and God "can neither deceive nor be deceived." 
But now it is rumored to me that my distinguished colleague across 
the road grew a beard last summer <for it is indeed rumored to be a 
beard that is on his face these days l so that he would not be mistaken 
for some resident political hatchet-man who also writes for the Ob­
~C?n'C?r and who apparently looks like both of us clear-headed, fuzzy­
laced campus clerics. Of course, I can't believe that any Man Of God 
t·ould ever be so vain, and so I leave the rumor to whisper through the 
barren trees in the woods behind St. Mary's, which is undoubtedly 
\\'here such an idle thought originated. 
, i\ny~ay. I now present, for the edification and purification of young 
( athohcs everywhere. some of the best of my correspondence of the 
past year. hopefully for the benefit of all concerned. 
Dear Father Ed, My fiancee has just written to inform me that she is pregnant and that s~e ~ants to _get married. I seldom worry about such things, but the chtld Js not mme. Is there any way Holy Mother Chruch can help llll' control this unwanted birth'? 
Signed, 
Worried 
Dear Worried. 

I can of course give you the best advice our Church has to offer: I am 
not prepared to d!scuss that question or any related question. Fur­
thermore. I am qutte sure your problem doesn't exist. 
Yours in Christ! 
ETE.Csc 
De<Jr Fr. Ed. 

I am a member and the leader of a local women's lib group, and have need of some sch~larly advice. Is is politic for a person of my s_tature to be called Chairman, Chairwoman, or Chairperson'? I would hke to please as many of my boyfriends as possible in my "·hoiceof title. 
l.ovingly, Sr. Emeraldina Societa Dear S'ter. I can_ find little_ reason for so mundane a title. Women's lib ought to be_ darmg. _creative, sublime even. May I suggest "Madame Chair­thmg. Chatrnun. or Chaircropper." 
llumblv. 
Hl'v. E·d. 
Dear Father Ed, 

I am the Chairthing of a student group called SOB (Students Op­posed to Rusingl, and would like true Christian advice on how to end busing in our Notre Dame Dining Halls. We SOB's agree with Richard Nixon that this subtle form of institutional racism ought to be stopped at the home of that sick white liberal Fr. Hesburgh, former chairman of the hypocritical Civil Righteous Commission. What can we do'? 
Yours in the bus. .luan i\mortime Fordaspix 


Dear SOB 
I. like you. have always believed that it ain't I he bus--it's us. and that this problem ought to b€
1Jarry trudeau 

~--------~--~--~ solved. However. since it is too expensive not tc bus. and since non-busing is so ugly for suc­ceeding generations of eaters, I suggest that in the spirit of chairing, we bus ... our trays. 

Yours in Christ. The Confessor of All Sins <for a price) 
the observer 
Night Editor: Kathy Schwille 

Ass'! Night Editor: Robert Baker 
Layout: Dan Barrett, Beth Hall 
Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr 

Typists: Tom Modglin, John 
Flannigan, Barb Norcross, Harry 
Chung. 


young businesses making it in south bend 
Young people with more courage than NPstled securely among a row of street­money are opening small businesses in front stores on West Colfax is Jennifer's, a South Bend .. Mostly they are under 25, avoid women's botique. Owned and operated'~ coats and ties. have long hair. and might be Susan Stein. Jennifer'.s h~otind considered 'freaky.' Their store hours are <~hnost three years. and~ . mor.e flexible. their organization is often ·established' voung_.businesses. unorganized. and not one drives a Cadillac. 11. gradl!.at.e' ~-Mary's college, Susan 
They are not in business to 'rip you off' or was an art major with nothing particular to to sell shoddy merchandise. They are not too do. and a talent for making clothes. concerned with profit. and often the:~~ make Therefore. with a limited financial none. They are in business to help the investment <$1500>, moral support from ntstomer. vou and me. friends and family. and maybe a prayer or 
To meet 'some of these young people lets two. she opened Jennifer's in 1970. take a tour. Let's visit The 'Crypt, Jen­Sitting behind one of three sewing nifer's. Stitch. and Pandora's Books. machines at the back of the store, Susan 
states with a bit of satiric hindsight, "I couldn't find a job so I decided to make it 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 hig! .. The hum of the sewing machines is broken for a moment as the two girsls at the other machines laugh. One of the girls gets 
Tlw Crypt is a record store located on t~ up to ehange an album. and soon the sound corner of Corby St. and South Bend Ave. 
of "Jpthro Tull" was intermingled with that(;iant black letters on one side 4 the of the machines.
lluilrling proclaim The Crypt and a I ,ong gone are the times when only two orbenevolent "Mssr. Zig-Zag>~ ~uphorically three people would come in all day. Now. ongn•els all passers -by. ErUcring the one ;my given day. Jenniffer's could be host to aroom store. record liiJOO walls. a subdued hundred or more customers. Along with this ~tereo. and raven haired John Mateja t•xpansion came the shattering of certain \1 t•leonw the customer. 
pre-conceived notions about business. The.John Mateja. 22 a graduate student in first thing learned was that it wasn'tI'Jl\·sies. has been in and out of the record possible to run the businss soso. "You can'tbusiness the last three years. Originally, lock the door everytime you go to theThe Crypt was run out of Lyons Hall at bathroom." She also found bookkeepingNotn• Dame; John opened it in the fall of interfered with the valuable time needed for 1!170 in reaction to "the campus bookstore's rlress rlesigning. thus. an accountant was
exorbitant prices." the business soon 
hired.

lweanw too big for the confines of John's Susan smiles at the girls running the room. the continual traffic being an in­maehines. "I have good help now That'sl'Otl\'enience for both him and the hall. so important because it gives me morellw Student Union asked him to move into freedom. Some days I just have to take off, I thP Student Center in the spring of 1971. He have to get away; and now I can do itdirl. husinss improved throughout the "·ithout worrying about the store."
spmester. and eventually a system of \.ike most people. some days Susa.Jli.waKesrompter eards was employed to keep track up and wants to forget the whol.e -ttiing.
of tlw stock. However. most of last year was II m,·ever.. unlike most people. her business ~pPnt hassling with an unsympathetic allows her to take off wheno she wants.
school of bureacracy. Permission to reopen Wlwther it's going to Chicagofor a few daystlw Cr~·pt was refused because of the direct to just "get away":.ot"'taking a month offnnrlPt'eutting of bookstore prices. 
rluring the summe&, to go camping; the"I finally got tired of fighting the ad­business allows ~r more freedom andministration. and decided to forget it. This tkxibility. des,P«e its many demands. "I ~·par I rlecided to open off-campus. and here can't get tnt6 taking off just one or twoI am." .John leans back in the green and \Yl'eks a -fear." she says firmly.
\Illite patio-lounge chair and swats at the 
buzzing flies. Almost all the clothes at Jennifer's are The store is open five days a week <closed handmade. Susan Stein does the designing, 
Tnt•sday and Sunday), from a somewhat and her three employees help with the llexible 2 pm to 7 pm. sewing. The desire for a handcrafted item. "If I'm ten or fifteen minutes late, well..." and an extreme dislike of mass-production 
w;1s the main reason she went into business . 
.John shrugs his shoulders "·'·I don't really 
\rnrry about it." Presenting the public with the highest If things work out. he hopes-to stay open 
quality clothes at the most reasonable price ~ t'a r-round. Presently mosl-._ of his is her goal. From the first, Susan was ntstonwrs are from Notre Dame,,.,put he 
rletermined to have the best women's hopes to attract more 'locals' to help him 
dothes. to offer something unique and through the summer months. special to the consumer, something not available in the clothing departments of
"If I don't sell volume, I'm finish~re large chain stores. And thorough someisn't much profit on an album.. 
aeative designing and educated labor, sheII is bae price for a single-:album is $3.92, 
noes just that. This opposition to impersonal l'Ompared to an inflateq:..$4.31 at the Notre production and consumption exacts its price 1l;11ne bookstore. and.a1>elt-tightening $4.98 
however. To present hand made, qualityanrl 5.!18 at stor~1., South Bend. Unlike his nwrchandise demands a hard and con­campus-based operation, John must now l'entrated effort. Except when she decides to worry about overhead--the rent, electricity, "split". Susan works anywhere from eightpart-time help. etc. Tis small profit allows a to thirteen hours a day. and during theselow margin of error. and demands a con­times. the business becomes the center of her·
stant watch on the stock. A surplus of the wrong albums. or a careless order, and the Cr~·pt eould easily be ... well, buried. llowt•ver. John sees The Crypt as a service to the community. and not a money making 
operation. lie isn't interested in huge profits, a big ehecking account, or a new car, he's interested in his customer, 
As long as he has money to cruise on. he's contented. "I don't plan on retiring to Florida next .~'ear; I just want to keep the Crypt open." 
ll.s a graduate student, John teaches a Ph~·sics lab and receives financial aid from Notre Dame. This allows him to employ a I most all Crypt profits for expansion. <"The more I can stock and sell. the lower I can keep the price.") Although Physics occupies much of his time, he hopes to keep the Crypt going as long as he can. If it's still in existence when he graduates, he'll run it lor a while. and then. who knows? As with his hobby of photography, .John is into Ph~·sics simply because "I enjoy it, and I do what I enjoy." He isn't looking for an Pxecutive position after graduation, actually he doesn't expect to use his degree. 
Sweeping his shoulder-length hair behind his l'ars. he realistically states, "Jobs in l'hysics are scarce nowadays. Physics majors aren't exactly in demand." 
Another customer inquires about a cer­litin album. and Johirplays it on the stereo. The flies continue to swarn1 ~ingly. The customer wants the album but d!scovers he's short 20 cents; John lets it slide. 
With a little luck. and perhaps a screen rloor. John's ·service· philosophy of gusiness will succeed. 
daniel wesolowski 
Pxistence. The question naturally arises, enabled them to do their leather work and What's the reward for all the effort?." help pay for the babies. Both Girls are from Southern Indiana, and they chose South 
She laughs again. "Well it can't be for the Bend mostly because "it's where our money. because there isn't much to be husbands are. and we like it here." made; if I was in it for the money, I wouldn't 
To a great degree. the business was bornhe rloing this." She motions to the piles of out of .necessity. but that hasn't dampened
rlress patterns and whirring sewilltg 
Dw~e s ~r 1\lary's enthusiasm. They enjoymachines. "No I do it for personal workmg wtth leather. and the business is asatisfaction. and pleasure; I like to see great source of satisfaction. Endless hourspeople wearing clothes I designed:·• The are filled with cutting, designing,notion of personal fulfillment and satisfaction t•ngraving. and dyeing the leather; greatoverweighs the monetary aspect. It's the pains are taken to fill personal orders andquality of the end product that counts, not help the cutomer with his own creation.
how much profit it will bring in. 
!\lost of their work consists of special orders Despite the de-emphasis on profit, Jqnn and rlesigns the customer has thought up. Itifer's has managed to progress from its ereates problems because they are tornunstable beginnings to a relatively stable 
hetweeen keeping the shop filled with ~resef!.t,,!_ennifer's now employs three other presentable merchandise. and maintaining women both full and part time; is open six the quality of these personal orders. Also. clays a week <10-8:30 Monday and Thur­some eustomers complain of the prices and sday: and I0-1t~ the rest of the weekl; it are unappreciative of the work involved. 
advertises on WHBH and in the South Bend ''I'd hate to figure out what we're getting ... Tribune; and has built a sizeable clientele paid per hour" says Diane. It adds up to consisting mostly of strtf!lents and people in headaches and responsibilities ranging
1 

their t~enties. It success proves that people from the trivial--"Every leather coat in 
apprectate. and even dema~ the mer­town must be torn"--to the more serious-­chandise offered. As Susan says, "The store ··Last week we were threatened by an ex­is unique in the area. other stores don't have tortionist." And once again. the overriding the quality we do. There's a certain group of question is "Why'?" people who come here looking for that The girls sit and rock the babies in their quality.·· laps. Diane speaks up. "We aren't in it for 
the money because there isn't thatmuch.
Susan foresees the business, and herself, as It's the .satisfaction we get." Mary agrees,being here at least three or four more years. 
"Wt'd hke to make more money to help with Although she has other interests, she enjoys the family and baby costs. but. .. " she looks rlress rlesigning and the business is running up form her baby and tilts her head, " ... it's ~moothly. For all practical purposes, it not there. We're more interested in makingseemg Jennifer's had 'made it' in its own the best leather goods we can." 
\\'a\'. 
The problem of keeping enough hand­s'usan pauses a moment. looking up from made merchandise in stock to turn a profitthe machine. "I want to make enough naturall:v arises. a problem they haven't monev to live. but I don't want to becohl.e 
totally resolved.
·ig' o~\ch or anything: that would defeat ."We reall~· have time limitations." ~aysmy origilriNpurpose. When I get tired of the Dtant'. "Between the babies and thebusiness. I'll SeU,;t and ... " She stares out the family. and the leather work. it can becomerloor and folds ·ner.• arms; the s store prett~· hectic." Adds Marv. "We're stillbeeomes silent " ... buyta.,(arm. keep a little ,·erY \'en· naive " · ' garden. make ceramics ... 'l·SlJe snaps back I( ~·ithe~ girl n~eds a day or two off, theto the store's interior and"··~ghs. "You partner mns the store bv herselfknow. the typical idealization trip·." , 
The store is open five days. a week from 12-5 pm. and Saturdays form 10-5 pm. IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHI hut these hours vary <If we're Iate. we're late. l. and neither gets particularly hassled o\·er them. This looseness and flexibility 
II. wllow-lettered window at the corner of pervades the store. Bookkeeping is looked South Bend and St. Louis Ave. proclaims: upon with indifference by Diane, "I never do Atitci : Leather and Fabric. The sign is on hook work." and a mild degree of realism. one of the two square plate-glass windows; h~· 1\lary. "We don't keep very close and the plate-glass windows are located on records; we still have a lot to learn." the first floor of a dull gray, two-story However. through all the confusion and building. Contrasted with the stark exterior naivety Stitch rolls on; the human aspect is an interior l'illed with handmade leather l'onstantly outweighing the business. goods t belts. pouches. handbags etc. l hand Roth girls laugh when asked about the eolorfully patterened dresses. future. 
Diane Nelson. 24, for art student, and "We're not going to become lilte 1\lar~· llardy, 26, a former teacher. are the Robertson's says Diane. Mary reflects main forces be~ind. Stitch.1:hey ~>pened ~~~e., "After this, I might go ga<.;k to st?re last Aprtl .'":~th a ~ teaching. but I really don't know. There's
thrrd partn~r. "lreaked and spht '.the store.~~ t~e not much creativity in teaching." h~· them~elves. makmg and,.9estgmng 1. the Whether Stitch will be here in five years, leather m the ~tor~Be~td~s the varwus or even one year. is anyone's guess; but in leather and labnc goods wtthm the store are the meantime no one's worrving much. Diane's and Mary's babies. both only a few · 
months old. Diane an:l Mary were pregnant 
to be continued tomorrow 
I 



the observer Tuesday, December s, 1972
6 

Midwest six-row variety. The extra of this premium barley is worth it. 
SMC plans parent-juveni11e edcation program 
continued from page 2 

l''or parents of the students, the positive dfort to incorporate all of student teachers, volunteer <'ommunity Sehool Corp., Evan H. ThP program's first session will 
thl:'m into the home. student personnel of Holy Cross lkrgwald. Jr.. Executive Director ('omnwnce in Dl:'cember. 1972, with 
program will provide weekly 

group counseling. group in­Those involved in PDEP will Hall. St. Mary's College, St. Joseph of Youth S!'rvices Bureay -City of a (;)assl:'r RPality Theory struct ion in the study and includ<' Sister M. Concepta County community agencies, and South RPnd. Clyde J. Remmo, Workshop for all professional I >in•ctor of l'ubfic Service Carrers­pPrsonnd. There will also be a
discussion of the role of parents, l\1d)l:'rmott. C.S.C., PDEP the Probate Court. 
Board of County Commissioners, summPr sl:'ssion. and a secondDirector and Associate Professor The PDEP has received thelamilv interaction. mental and an Hussl:'ll rPgular school year session in the
physical health of both parents and of Education at St. Mary's, support of South Bend Mayor .Jerry Gagnon. Director of 
Administrative Counselor, four Miller. Donald D. Dake, l'rojl:'cl Hl'ach-Out. Big Brothers Fall of 1973. · The grant is
studmts. rl:'lation of these factors !q juv(•nill:' delinquency, with a master teachers, eight St. Mary's Superintendent of South Bend of S!. Joseph County. Inc. rl'nl'wabll:' for a second year. 
The hopped wort is Slr.ined, 
pumped to cooling towers, and 

makes for a milder, more pleasant beer. then to fermenting cellars. Yealot, made bor!ey is first cleaned, graded. washed from o,n own special pure culture. and steeped, then allowed to germ mate for a is .add(:d and fermentation hegins. min1mum of fi,·c: days under a gentle stream of llumid .air in slowly rc:voh,ing drums. 
-
Many beers ·would be ready for artificial carbonation, filtering and bottling at this pr:nt, but not Budweiser. Instead, it goes to huge tan~s in the lager cellars. Here, beechwood strips are spread uross the bottom of each 
lager tank. l>:cr is pumped in, freshly yeasted wort is added, and the beer is allowed to carbona!< itstll nat­
urally as it ferments and ages. slowly and ~uictly a second time. 
(Th1s u the exclusan Budwnser Beechwood Age1n~ proens. h takn more hme [actually u much u tltru tirnu as lo•g u the proceu some beers uu'J and costs more money, but the Smps ol beechwood provade extn surbce for the brewers' yeast to chng to-and help daflfy the beer natuully.) 
-
For a 20" x 28112" Budweiser Brewing Chari art print in tun color, send $1 check or money order payable to: BREWING CHART, Anheuser-Busch, Inc., Dept C, Box 8861, St. Louis, Missouri, 63102 



ND and SMC to host 'Workshop on Public Personnel Practices 
Saint Mary's College, Notre midwest council of La Raza, and 
Dame. will co-sponsor a Public St. Joseph County Council for the Personnel Practices day-long Hetarded. workshop with Public Service Careers. St. Joseph County, on It is the first in a series of ten December 6, 1972, held in the such sessions to be held throughout College's Little Theatre, Moreau the year at Saint Mary's College in IIall. cooperation with Public Service 
This workshop is being held for ·Careers. These sessions are aimed 
public orficials, agency directors, at assisting local governmental 
and governmental administrative leaders in dealing with labor­
personnel. and will include management relations in modern 
representatives from the cities of society. 
South Rend and Mishawaka, Mr. John N. Matzer, Jr., Village 
County Commission, County and l\lanager. Skokie, Illinois, will 
City Councils. Healthwin Hospital, conduct the workshop. His topic, 
the llousing Authority, , County "Personnel Systems Overview", 
Park DPpartment. El Centro, the will discuss Equal Employment 
Campus security director reports a quiet weekend 
Director of Secutity Arthur ObsC'rver. The directive stated l'l•ars reported a relatively quiet that the ordinary penalty for any \n•ekend as the Fighting Irish student apprehended and con­journeyed to sunny California. \'icted of stealing would be 
Several light bulbs and sockets suspension for the current wPre destroyed in the underground Sl'mester. steam tunnels that criss-cross the It was not clear whether this l'ampus. and a wooden tool cabinet policy was meant to be applied belonging to a contractor was only to cases of on-campus lar­broken into. Some tools were l'l'nies. or whether it would also be rPmoved from the cabinet, <lpplied to off campus cases in­aIthough it has not been deter­,·olving dvil authority. At press lllined exactly what is missing. tinw. Fr. Riehle could not be 
!'ems was particularly con­reached for clarification. t'Prned about the hazards one is "This policy is an aftermath of t•xposed to if the tunnels are en­\\hat happened last year when ten•d. lie said that there are many there were so many cases of high-lmsion electrical wires and shoplifting reported by the steam pipes running through the Bookstore," Pears said. tunnels. "Many of the students Pem·s also said that he had who go down there are not aware of n'l'eived a call from the county this. and if one of those steam pipes prosecutors last week. They in­
\H'rl' to hurst. well. .." formed him that there would be no 
clemency granted to Notre Dame 

l'l•ars also reported the larceny students suspected of shoplifting in of a battery from a car parked in South Rend stores simply because the D-1 parking lot. and several the students asked him or Riehle to radio antennas broken on cars in speak with them. the D-2 parking lot. "So if a student is worried about 
There Wl're no apprehensions of having a police record, that's too any kind made over the weekend. had. He had better think of this 
PPars also commented on the before he does any thing, because shoplifting directive issued by it is going to do no good for me to Dean of Students Fr. James Riehle l'all the prosecutors up," warned that appeared in yesterday's Pears. 
Notre Dame included 
ICUI urges new tuition 
equalization program 
The Independent Colleges and students so that they may have llniversities of Indiana, Inc. access to all institutions in the tlCU}), has strong\y urged the state and so all institutions, public Indiana Commission for Higher and private. can equitably appeal 
Education tQ incorporate a tuition­to the ablest students who qualify <•qualizatlon program in its for assistance." planning for post-secondary 
A non-profit corporation., ICUI <>ducation in the state. 

was organized last summer to · 

Comprised of 31 privately­
advncl' the cause of independentsupported institutions of higher l11ghl'r Pducation in the state. It karning, including Notre Dame, opl'r<ltl's from offices in In­!CUI also asked for additional dianapolis. 

funding of the state scholarship 
program "commensurate with the 
incn•ased numbers of persons to be 

s('rVl'd." Thl' two proposals are contained in an ICUI report, stating its position on the commission's prl'liminary draft for post­secondary l'ducation, which was i rdI.'a sl'd Sl'pt. 29. Noting that the preliminary plan dol's not provide for a tuition­
I

<'qualization program, ICUI asked thl' commission to consider such a I Santa Claus (children's photo availableJ 
program in 1973, according to Hobl'rt E. Martin, ICUI president. 
~ 

liP Pmphasized that such state assist ancl' would be in the form of grants directly to Indiana students to attend indeuendent institutions of higher learning in the state. "There are thousands of unfilled . spaces in the independent colleges · and universities," Martin stated. "A tuition-equalization program would promote efficient utilization of Indiana's, resulting in a sub­stantial saving to Hoosier 
ta~:;:;~l~g the state scholarship~ 
program. the ~C~I stated it~-Students $1 00 Under 12 $ 50 
"should be mamtamed for all • • 
. . . . ·. 
Opportunity, Callenges to Civil Service Systems, Manpower Programs. Intergovernmental Personnel Act, Fringe Benefits, T1·aining, Productivity, and Collective Bargaining in the Public Sector. 
l\latzer served as City Ad­ministrator for Trenton, New .JI.'rsey. He served on the staffs of the ltutgers Bureauof Government Hl'search and Urban Studies Cl'nter. Matzer has taught Collective Bargaining in the Public Sl'ctor at Rutgers, and taught llrban Policy. Fiscal Ad­ministration. and Collective Bargaining at Roosevelt l lniversity and at Rider College. Ill' is a contributor to the ICMA 
Handbood  for  Adminstrators  of  
Small  Cities  in  the  chapter  on  
Pl'rsonnel Management.  

l\latzer served on the National Council .or the American Society lm· Pubhc Administration, and is a nwm ber of the Curriculum Committee on Negotiating with Public J<:mployees. He holds B.A. and M.A. degrees from Rutgers llniversitv. . 
Dr. Ed~·ard L. Henry, President Saint Mary's College, will be th~ luncheon speaker. His topic will be "The Saint Mary's College BPiation to the South Bend Com­nnmity". Dr. Henry served as l\layor of St. Cloud. Minnesota for seven ~·ears. and was Director of the Center for the Study of Local (iovernment at Saint John's llniversity. Collegeville, Min­nesota. before assuming his present position at Saint Mary's College. 
S.B. Art Center 
offers invitation 
Privileges of membership in the South Rend Art Center have been Pxtended to the entire community through December lOth when the "l\1 ini-Membership Month" program will come to a close with the opening of an exhibition of 20 original drawings by Norman Hockwell. 
The pencil drawings, which are being lent to the Art Center through Mr. Edward McCarthy, agent for the Massachusetts l\Iutual Life Insurance Company, ""'redone by Mr. Rockwell, one of Anwrica's best-loved illustrators, between the years 1950 and 1964. 
Various selections of these Rock­well originals have been shown throughout the country in places such as the Oklahoma City l\luseum of Art. the Museum of i\l'ls and History in Port Huron, l\lit'higan. and the Museum of Fine AI'Is in Springfield, Mass. 
The l'Xhibition will open with a lea sponsored by the Women's Art I.eague on Sunday. December lOth, from 2 to 5 p.m. and will run through December 29th. 

See. it all at the: 

MICHIANA SNOW SHOW 
Friday  December 8  5-10 pm  
Saturday  December 9  10 am  -10 pm  
Sunday  December 10 10 am  -10 pm  
ACC  .Admissions  Adult $1.50  

Tuesday, December s, 1972 the observer 
WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE'S 
KING HENRY V 
Starring Sir Lawrence Olivier 
Tues. Dec. 5 8 & 10 p.m. Architecture Auditorium $1°0 proceeds to Sr. Morita 
Howard Hall Lecture Seri.es 
presents 
Fr. Joseph Hoffman 
discussing 
'Aspects of Human Sexuality' 
7:00 pm Howard Hall Chapel Tuesday Dec. 5 
TUESDAY NIGHT IS 
LADIES' NIGHT 
AT THE 

RED DOOR CLUB 

All Ladies' Drinks Y2 price after 7:00 pm 
Memberships Available 


CLASSIFIED ADS 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Rabbit's Fur Hat (Mad­
cap). Reward $10.00. Rosetta M. 
Kerrigan. 2701 Lake Shore Drive, ~ichigan City, Indiana 46360. 
Lost.Pink cameo ring. Fri, Dec. 1. 
Call Beth 4679 
Lost. I pair girl's grPen mittens Call Dan 8810 
T. F. Kerin: please· pi~k me up at SMC Security office; ')Klur lonelywallet. 
Found: wire rim glasses in Eng.Aud. Friday after the movie. Call 6664. 
Found: a cat. Call and identify1409. 
Found: watch near towers; call 8872. 
WANTED 
Rider wanted to Oregon. Must share expenses. Leave December 19: Call 233·3893. 
Wanted: ambitious person or couple interested in earning goodpart.time income. For interview call Mr. Wells 272-8375. 
Wanted: 2 roommates off­
campus, 5 bedroom hous.e. $50 mo. Call Denny 234.4259. 
Need apartment for one for next semester. Preferably close to campus and cheap. Call Rick 8284, Chris 4964 or Larry-Paul 8276. 
Ride needed to Colorado or New Mexico tor Christmas vacation. Call Steve, 1059. 
1 or 2 riders to Orange Bowl. Leaving Indianapolis Dec.· 29. Must share expenses. :carr Jim 259.9173. 
Men and Women .~tudents needed to help get YVfi\.A Home for girlsready to oplfn. Some jobs are: painting bunk beds, cleaningfloors, moving furniture, etc. Sllpplies are at the home; justdrop in and work. 520 North Lafayette. See Jay or JoAnn Powell. Or phone 233.9491 and ask for Carol Wilken. 
· 
Ride available to Dayton·Ft.Lauderdale Dec. 27. Call 8026. 
PERSONALS 

Thanks so much to everyone,especially Denis, Mary, Dave, & Regina for making this the best 
birthday ever!!! ·Mary · NOTICES 

Interested in participating in GayAwareness discussion groups?Write to Gay Awareness, care of The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 
Gals, earn S10 to $20 for 2 hours.;, work from your home. For details 
call 272·8375. 

Christmas Loans! Not due until January 19th. Morrissey Loan 
Fund. Open until Dec. 13, Mon. day.Friday 11:15·12:15. LaFortune basement. 
EUROPE! Lowest rates ·to all EuropeanCities! Daily flights from N.Y., Chicago, D.C., Philadelphia and others. British Overseas Airways Corp. Call Clark. 283·8810, for details. 
Speaking of BLONDES Girls willing to help us add some accent to our SWEDISH .­SMORGASBORD, contact~''Pat Joyce at the South Dining Hall, 6147. before Friday, Dec. 8th. Dinner will be provided as well .for any St. Mary's girl who can h.~lp.It'll be fun . so how 'bout jr! · · 
VALKOM_¥£N. 

Before you buy a ring for a gift or engagement call James 3133.· It may save you a great deal. 
FOR SAI_E 

CHRISTMAS SPECIAL. $10 off reg. price of new WestinghouseCompact Refrigerators. 4.4 cu. ft. cap; free delivery. CALL NOW! 234-0578 or 232·2618. Ask tor l'om. 
For sale: '64 Ford Galax\!-' 500,$250 ctreat condition, a:~'r.e.al trucke.r! ~89·5940. .;~ · · 
Noise makers tor sale. Send name and telephone number:· to 
Box 685 ND, Indiana 46556. :: 

For sale: Two Sugar Bowl tix. Cheap. Call Joe 287-4506. 
FOR RENT 

Bedroom in private home. One mile from N.D. All privileges of comtorlable home includingcooking and washing facilities. 272·2445 after 7 pm or anytime
weekends. 

7 
r 
... 
.. 
• 
~--~~~~~--------~~ 
~--­

8 the observer Tuesday, December 5, 1972 
Cagers drop OT thriller to Bucks 

trouble. quickly got the Buckeyesby Vic Dorr opener. the Irish led powerful Ohio halftime. and still owned an eight­But the Buckeyes. who several untraeked in the second period. He
State throughout the 40 minutes of point lead with four minutes left in times seemed on the verge of 
canned a pair of jump shots to cut
Last night. for the second time in collapse. took advantage of 29
regulation time. And the ND 
Nil's margin to four--47-43--earlyregulation play and scrapped to a 
as many games. Notre Dame's eagers barely missed a victory in Notre Dame turnovers--17 of them 
li!l-69 tie at the buzzer before finally in the half. and later threw in a
coming in the second half and in
sophmore-studded basketball succumbing to the Bucks, 81-75, in regulation when Gary Brokaw's third two-pointer to tie the game at mnning one-hander-following John
It-am found itself hanging on the the last two minutes of the over­the overtime session--and rallied :>1. 
Shumate's theft of an inbounds
hrink of a major upset. time period. around the hot hand of senior
pass--skittered off the rim with just But the Irish again made a move 
~uard Allan Hornyak. who scored
Playing in their 1972 home The Irish led by eight, 37-29, at seeonds remaining. to put lhe game out of reach. and 
IH points in the second half to forge (;;11·~· Brokaw's three-point playtheir victory. 
'' ith i :OH reamining gave ND a ten: point spread. ti5-55. Ohio State
llornyak finish('d with 22 points lo paee lh(' winners, but three of 
lrimnwd tlw lead In eight over the his ll'ammates also finished in the 
next thi'Pe minutes. and NO's 
double-figures l'alegory. Seven­l'hdps sent his team into their 21­loot Luke Witte tossed in 14 points. spn•;•d ollPnse--a holding offense-­lorward Wardell .Jackson had 10. '' ith lour minui('S left. and Ii-i Bill Andreas added 19 
l'hdps' strategy didn't work. 
Ill()!'('. 

( lhio State. l<tking advantage of 
Tlw high point man for the game :\D's l'aulious play, converted two \1 as .John Shumate. ND's 6-9 soph­lurno1·ers into buckets. forc('d lhe nwn' l'enter. Shumate finish('d Irish out of their holding attack. \lith '!.i points. and was joined in :ltHi NotrP Dame lll'V('r regained its double figures by guards Gary offensive continuity. A lay-in by 1\rokaw ( IHl and Dwight Clay ( 141. \\'ilte lied tlw scon' at li7 at 2::!3, "Shut'" also led both tea1~s in :IIHI till' St'OI'l' r('lllained tied-­rebounding. pulling down 15 dPspite Brokaw's lasl-s<>cond l'aroms. allt-mpt--until the Pnd of the ganw 
"It was a good game," Tlw teams volleyed during the I irst thn•<• minutes of the five­
acknowledged ND's Digger 
minull' exira period. and were stilll'lwlps. "But not good enough. 
tiPd--lhis tinw at i5--with 2:o:J left.
\\'e've pla~·ed lm> great teams here I :ut llw Irish ll"<'l'l' lo go scorelessin our first two games. Ohio State? 
Ior I he n'm i ndl'l' of I he game.
Tlw~··n· a sound tream. though not ''hill' tlwl\uekstalli('d three times-­a spt•l'tacular t('am. They play well Ill il'e on hask('ls hv llornvak andenough to win and Hornyak comes o1. ;1 pair of fn'e throws l;y guardthrough when they need him." 
ll;•n t:erhard. "But." lw eontinued. "for us to l'ome out as a ~·<mng team and play "I t:•ke the hlanw for the loss," 
these lwo teams !Michigan and said l'hPips. "W<· 11·ere up by eight Ohio Sial(') the wav we have--well \1 ith lour minutes left. and I it's tough. It's jusi not fair to th~ \\anlt-d to go into our !-spread. kids. What we need. what we've '' hid1 is a holding olfl'nse ct('signed gotta have now is a good win under to hring thl' zone out. They ad­our lwlts to help our confidenee. IIISil'd to it. and \\'(' gave the hall But. w<'re not going to win\\ith29 :1\1 a~. and then--bang--we gave it IUrrlO\'('I'S." ;1\\a~ again. and all of a sudden \ll,.l'l' on)~· up by four and we have 
Irish tan~cers nip Drury, retain 
~~~:: :,m?.~.~ :w,..~:.,~ ?.!".~o~~.~!?,,!~~~~'~!e. 
Despitl' the many turnovers, to go haek In our regular offense. retained its title in last Friday's h~· ~>et~e~ than ten seconds. In his re~o~d-setting pace of a year though. the Irish were in position to That's wh~· I blanw myself." Notre Dame Relays, nipping a V,llpd~lso sn_eaked by Drury and ·~g~ m g1vmg Notre ?arne a two­11 in last night's game with Ohio 
"\\'p\·p got to he more creative
highlv-touted squad from Drury Notre D,une m the 200-yard but-setOnd edge. Joey 0 C~mnor·. who Stat'. Dwight C'lay's layup off of a \1 ith our offense at the end of theCollege of Springfield, Missouri ~rlly relay. In a sees~w event, swam_ v~ry well ~II mght. added <:ary Brokaw steal broke a 10-10 tie game \\'t-'vl' got to play like we're
with a victory in the last event of (,ene Krathaus of the Insh near!y the w_mnmg marg1~ of the relay, 11 ith I.J ::14 IPft in the first half. and six lll'hind instead of six ahead. Wethe night. l'he meet. as expected, <;!aged enough of a.comeback m Pn_abhng Mark W1Icox and last after that the period broke strictly didn't l'hange that much in thequicklv resolved itself into a two-l_h~ anchor leg to ~am the lead but ·~•mute •.•.n~horman ent_ry John to the Irish. Nil opened up a six­on'rlinw pl'riod. hut we just didn'tteam hattie between Notre Dame lmtshed a close th1rd. Slwrk to_llmsh the event m a meet point lead with 7::30 remaining, but tlw Bucks quickly erased that t'Xl'l'Uil'. Wl' did a great job for 36and Drurv with hoth teams ex-Drury stretched its margin to 68-record Inne of 3:21. 
ntinult-s. hut unfortunately themargin and pulled to withing two.
l'hanging 'the lead throughout the liO with another first-place 
ganw nms for .Jil minutes.';
'!.!1-2i. wlwn Bill Andreas swished a
t-vening. showing. but Notre Dame's Dan Orange Bowl tix Ill-fool<'!' with iust over five and a
Notre Dame jumped into a 14-6 1\lakulski's best individual per­Thl' Irish players were not so
half minutt's left.

lead in the first event. the 200-yard formance of his career enabled the quick to place the hlame with their fre('stvle. with anchorman Gene Irish to take a wide lead in that avai I able today But the Irish answered with l'naeh. "It \\'as I he same thing up at 1\rattiaus edging Jennings of Pvent and close the Drury lead to sonw !all' scoring of their own. 1\lichigan.'' said a dejected Pete 
Slt!dent tickets for the January I
\'alpariso for first place, while il-li7. l'rott~·-"Wl' htd it. we had the
Baskets by Shumate. Pete Crotty,
Orange Bowl game between Notre 
gamt-. nnd \ll' just let it get away."
llrury finished fourth. and Brokaw gave ND an eight­
Drury cut the Irish margin with Gene Krathaus. in his third Dame and Nebraska will be on point margin which held up until 
a first-plac(' finish in the 400-yard performance of the night as an­sale--beginning today--from nine to !\I>'' ill make another attempt to
interm iss ion. 

individual nwdley. fighting off a ehorman. enabled Notre Dame to five at the ACC box office. k<'<'P one fr11111 getting away on l'nnwhack attempt by John Sherk, pull away from Drury in the Originally. 1.000 tickets were to llornvak, who sat out much of \\'t><hwsday. when the lr:sh meet \\hoswa1n a ;li.R anchor leg. Drury medley relay. The Irish team of Ed he made available to the students the fi1:st half because of foul \'alparaiso. at H:llll pm in the ACC. follmwd up with another first in (;raham. Jim Fischer. Jim hut ticket manger Don Bouffard the-tOO-yard medley relay and took 1\leagher. and Krathaus took a has announced that an additional m·er tlw lead in points from the l'Onvincing victory over second-allotrr :'Ill of 700 tickets will also be 1 rish. :l.J-2R. place Drury and knotted the team available. The new supply will se-ll 
Notn· Dame quickly retaliated score at R1-all with one event for $5.00 each. and students paying 111 lht• ROO-yard freestyle relay. The remaining · hv eheck may make their checks p;tyable to the University. 
It is recommended. however. that the students make sure of the location of their seats before the-y make out their checks for either price amount. 
Because of the great demand for these tickets. no student may purchase more than one. and any 
tickets bought will have to be used h~· Notre Dame students. Both the ticket and student identification card must be presented to gain admission to the Orange Bowl. 
Tickets may be obtained ae­cording to the following schedule: seniors. Tues.. Dec. 5; juniors, graduate and law students, Dec. 6; sophs. Dec.. 7; frosh. Dec. 8. 
ND--BC hockey fix 
A limited number of tickets ar•e available for the Notre Dame­Boston College hoekey game to b·~ played in Boston on December 22 at BC's McHugh Forum. The tickets will be sold today at Gate IoO of the ACC and will cost $2.50 each. 
Notre Dame leads the series with Boston College, 3-2. Last year the Irish won both encounters with the Eagles. defeating them 14-3 in Chicago Stadium. and 7-4 in the ECAC tournament in Madison Square Garden. 
• 


• 
... 





