
running the risk of sounding like the proverbia I broken record, we say "more of the same" 


Vol. VI, No. 72 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Monday, February 7, 1972 
Two month deadlock broken 
ND-SMC merger talks reopen 


Merger negotiations between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College reopen this Thursday, February 9, after two months of inactivity due to the negotiation breakdown last December 
A news blackout of all information concerning the negotiations has been declared. Both in­stitutions said, "in the interest of meaningful negotiations, future announcements concerning negotiation sessions will be limited to reporting concrete progress on resolving issues." 
The Notre Dame negotiating team is headed by the Chairman of the Board of Trustees, Ed­mund P. Stephan and University President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. 
Also from Notre Dame are included University Provost Rev. James T. Burtchaell . C.S.C., Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, Executive Vice-Preident and Treasurer, and Dr. Thomas P. Carney, chairman of the Student Affairs Committe of the Board of Trustees. 
The negotiating committee from SMC consists of the following: Sr. ~L Gerald Hartney, C.S.C., Secretary of the SMC Board of Trustees; Mr. P. Jordan Hamel, treasurer of the board; Sr. M. Verda Clare Doran, C.S.C.; Sr. M. Basil Anthony O'Flynn, C.S.C., College Vice-President for Fiscal Affairs; Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, College vice president for student affairs; Jason D. Lindower Jr., director of financial management; Sister Maria Concept McDermot, C.S.C., associate professor of education; and Dr. William A. Hickey, professor of biology. 
No faculty are included on the Notre Dame team. 
Reactions from the faculty of both institutions have centered mainly upon the fact that neither group was consulted in the naming of negotiating teams. 
Anthony Black, asst. professor of history at 
SMC, noted that, except for five SMC faculty 
Members who met with administrators from the 
college to urge the reopening of negotiations, no 
faculty members have had anything to do with 
the issues. 
Saying that he really "didn't know" how ef­
fective these new negotiations would be Black 
stated "I can't see that any change has taken 
place in attitudes in the past months." 
Dr. Paul Messbarger, assitant professor of English at SMC and head of the SMC faculty assembly also called the new situation "un­clear". 
It is not clear what authority the team has or who it is responsible to and these are critical issues" Messbarger claimed. 
He said that he hoped that the faculty meeting scheduled for this afternoon would clear up some of the issues. 
Messbarger claimed that the negotiating team from St. Mary's was set up pimarily by Mother Olivette Whalen, chairman of the SMC Board of Trustees. 
He also stated that "our (the faculty's) initial understanding was that Sister Gerald Hartney would not be on the negotiating team. Ap­parently she changed her mind." 
Notre Dame faculty members, Dr. Ernest Elie of chemistry and former AAUP head and associate professor Thomas Swartz, chairman of the Faculty Senate, stated that the Notre Dame faculty had no input into the selection of the negotiating team, which contains no faculty members. 
Swartz, president of the University faculty senate stated, "The faculty feels that there are individuals among them who could make meaningful contributions if asked." 
Nonviolence marks Irish demonstration 
by Bt>rnard Weinraub 
(cl 1972 New York Times 
Newry, Northern Ireland, Feb. 6-­Thousands of Roman Cathlics surged silently through the streets of Newry today in a mass civil rights protest against the British and Northern Ireland govern­ments. 
Thl' dramatic two-hour demonstration ­in defiance of a ban on marches in Nor­thern Ireland -avoided the center of the city and a threatened confrontation with hundreds of helmeted British soldiers who waited in armored cars behind barbed­wire roadblocks. There were no major incidents. 
"This is a big victory for the civil rights movement in Northern Ireland," Kevin Boyle, a 28-year-old leader of the march, said excitedly from the speakers' platform in a muddy meadow one mile fom the center of Newry. "We have defied the ban. 
There has been no violence. We've shown that we will not be intimidated by a government that's unacceptable to us." 
Moments later, Rory McShane, a 25­year-old law student who heads the Newry Civil Rights Association, said into a microphone: "An illegal march has taken place because we reject the law and we reject the repressive government that made the law. We will continue to reject the law until the British army leaves and this government ends." 
By the early evening, British army of­ficials were obviously pleased at the outcome of the march. A spokesman said: "You could say it was a bit of a victory for both sides, if you like. They managed to hold a hit of a march, but on the other hand there wasn't any violence." And Lt. Gen. Sir Harry Tuzo, Commander of British troops in Northern Ireland, who was in 

Silent march, no violence in Irish Catholic protest march in Newry 
Newry during the day, said: "I'm ex­tremely glad that the afternoon has been quiet in Newry and it ha passed without incident." 
Between 15,000 to 20,000 Roman Catholics from both sides of the border took part in the march, on of the largest civil rights demonstrations in the bitter 51­year history of Northern Ireland, where the Protestant to Catholic population ratio is 3 to 1. Although the march was planned last month, it turned into a major protest during the last week after the killing of 13 Catholic men in Londonderry during a demonstration last Sunday. The British army said that the demonstrators in Londonderry attacked them, but Catholics say that the British assault was un­provoked. 
Today, virtually every marcher wore a small black emblem, shaped like a coffin, with the number 13. As the solemn march, in honor of the 13, began from the Derrybeg estate, which is a series of hillside homes, Bernadette Devlin , the militant Catholic member of the British Parliament, said: "By the sounds of our feet and the silence of our tongues we are showing that we will smash the system in Northern Ireland. And we will smash it." 
The march and rally took place over the 
appeals of Prime Minsters Edward Heath of England and Brian Faulkner of Nor­thern Ireland, who feared a repetition of the Londonderry violence. By early this evening tension rose in the farming town, about 40 miles from Belfast, when the army and police inexplicably kept most of the town sealed, creating traffic jams and provoking anger among demonstrators, who shouted and cursed at the flak­jacketed soldiers, who held automatic weapons. By nightfall, many of the 20 
roadbocks were lifted. 
Demonstrators arrived last night and 
this morning in buses, vans and cars. 
Signs were everywhere: "Cement 
workers from Limerick"-"Dublin Civil 
Rights." The meticulously organized 
march, with 400 local stewards, was set to 
march a mile and a half into Margaret 
Square in the center of Newry for a rally, 
whose speakers included Catholic op­
position leaders in Northern Ireland, 
British members of Pariament and Civil 
Rights Officials. 
Hours before the march, however, it 
became clear that the army would bock 
any attempt to enter Margaret Square. 
Boyle, McShane and the other young civil 
rights leaders drew up an alternative plan 
so that the demonstration avoided the 
center of the town--but still defied the ban 
on marches. 
That the ban was still on became clear 
when a British helicopter soared over the 
marchers and a voice from it said: "You 
are breaking the ban on marches ... and 
subject to prosecution." 
The throng, walking with arms linked in rows of eight, remained silent and kept walking from the Derryberg estate along winding Camlough road. 
(continued on page 6) 
-----------------------~-------------------­
Monday, February 7, 1972 THE OBSERVER -Page 2 
----~------~----------------------------------------~­
world briefs 
<C> 1!172 New York Times 

Washington--In a major clarification of Hanoi's current position, the chief North Vietnamese negotiator in Paris said on a television program Sunday that American prisoners of war will be released only <tft£'r the government of Nguyen Van Thieu in Saigon has fallen and the war has been brought to an end. Xuan Thuy, the negotiator, added that just setting a withdrawal date would have been enough before Thieu's re-d£'ction. 
I.nndnn--Informed sources in London said that the British government has prt'pared a new political plan for Northern Ireland and is waiting for the right time to announce it. It is understood that the plan would give the Catholic community a larger share of ministers in the Nor­thern Ireland government than its proportion of the population. 
Washington--Government sources in Washington said that the state and justice departments were reviewing the case of Clifford Irving, the novelist, and his wife to determine whether Mrs. Irving should be ('Xtradited to Switzerland on fraud charges involving paymments for a book about Howard R. Hughes. Apparently, she would not be ex­tradited if charges are placed against her in this country. 
. . 1\:('w York--Scheduled United States airlines began complying at airports around the world with an emergency federal aviation ad­ministration order requiring them to screen all of their passengers as potential airplane hijackers. At least a dozen passengers at Kennedy International Airport here were not permitted to fly because they did not satisfactorily answer the questions of officials. 
12:00--lecture, gregory 7: 30--meeting, flying club, 
stone, symbolic in­120 o'shag. teraction, library lounge. B:OO--seminar, jacques 
3: 30--lecture, jacques maisonrouge, 
maisonrouge, how in­relationships between ternational business universities and helps world un­business in europe and 
derstanding, library in the united states, 121 auditorium hayes-healy. 
on campus today 
B: 00--lecture, robert gordon, graduate education: how bright is the future, library auditorium. 
B:OO--Iecture,paul martin, canada and her mighty neighbors, cce auditorium . 
B: 00--lecture dagfin fallesdal, husserl's theory of perception, galvin life science building auditorium. 
ND profs relatively 'poor,' say AAUP nat1 averages 
by Bill Sohn 

Notre Dame is relatively low ranked in teacher salaries ac­cording to the June, 1971 bulletin of the American Association of University Professors. 
On a scale of one to ten with one being the highest mark, Notre Dame ranked: 8 for full professors on an average salary of $19,140, 7 for associate professors, a salary of $15,440, 8 for assistant professors, a $12,580 wage, and 10 for instructors, which is any salary below $9,400. 
Explaining these figures, Dr. Ernest L. Elliel, president of the 
N.D. chapter of the A.A.U.P., said that several other factors should also be considered. First, he pointed out that these figures were in comparison only with universities giving doctorates. When compared with all other schools, N.D. comes out much better. 
Besides salaries, Dr. Elliel commented, there are other attractions that might bring top people to Notre Dame. These reasons included the catholic atmosphere, the low student to faculty ratios of most classes, and the fact that the cost of living in South Bend is lower than that of most areas around major east coast schools. 
When questioned about salaries, Dr. Philip J. Gleason, chairman of the History Department, said that he has experienced no problems in getting qualified professors. Dr. 
Gleason  explained  that  it  is  
currently  a  buyers  market  in  
History  teachers  and  that  

salaries are secondary to jobs with most professors now seeking work. He added that he thinks "we can get excellent people" and feels N.D. offers competitive salaries. 
Agreeing with Dr. Gleason was Dr. James E. Robinson, chair­man of the English Department, said that his department has very good people and is competitive in getting qualified new ones. 
V2 PRICE COLOR PRINTS? 
SAVE ON SLIDES -MOVIES -B&WPRINTS, TOO 
This low price saves you up to 50% over usual "drug store" prices, rushes high quality color prints back to your door in just a few days. Try the film service used on many mid-west and southern campuses. 
SO EASY, SO CONVENIENT ... just use your own envelope and the coupon below. Fill in name and address, write name on roll or cartridge, enclose coupon and remittance. Or, use the coupon to get film mailers and dis­count coupons; order film and flashes at low prices ... a better deal than "free" film. Savings and processing quality guaranteed. 
~ YOUR ORDER MUST INCLUDE THIS COUPON­
-~ 
§' Name \'t.\'6\~ ~\\1
--~~ 
:: Address \\\t>' ~ a.nt't:> ______._ip___ \11¢. 
0 Send me free film mailer envelope and discount Re1-Price Ya11 Pay E 
coupon 0 12 eKp. Black & White . 1.29 .99 ;: 0 I'm enclosing __ rolls of film and payment \plus 0 20 eKp. Black &White -1.99 I 55 = tax in Ohiol 0 20 eKp. Slides or 8 mm Movies . 1.49 t:Zz ~=-­
0 Send me fresh Kodacolor film and/ or flashes 
D I am enclosing an e~etra 25¢ per roll for express Circle your size: (limit two) . . . . . .. sse each handling and first·~lass mail return lnstamatic 126-12 -127 _ 120 _ 620 
Rtl. Price You Par Circle your flash: !limit two sleeves) . . 88(: each 
0 20 eKp. Kodacolor . . 4.49 3.55 Magicubes $1.19 each 
~ MAIL TO: SPE-0-PICS ·Box 299 ·Cincinnati, Ohio 45214 ·Dept. ND .I 1111 I IIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIII 
I 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The 
Strohs...From one beer loverto another. 
Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. 
TH B s'ri!OH tltl.Kiii·'E!()~ <;:<)Mf'ANY, I>J''rllt~lt, Miqf!<\AN :N*<· Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

Monday, February 7, 1972 THE OBSERVER 
ND-SMC fail to reach agreement 
by Jot• J>owt•rs 

Hopes for a merger between the Notre Dame and St. Mary's student governments dimmed considerably last night when election committees from the two schools failed to reach agreement on procedures for the upcoming April election. 
Endorsed by the St. Mary's Assembly, the SMC committee proposed a plan in which the two student governments would remain independent of each other. but a joint election would occur between the two schools. Under this system, individuals wishing to run for office would have to merge into blocks of four­·two presidents and two vice presidents. The party-block would then be elected as a whole by the combined ND-SMC student hodies. 
The Notre Dame Election Committee rejected the plan on the grounds that they felt it would not lead to an equal and fair rPpresentation of the two schools. .John Barkett, ND Student Body President and a member of the election committee, stoorl in support of a voluntary coalition of party candidates from the two schools, but felt it would be "unfair" to force candidates to align themselves. 
Barkett stated that he would ask "for a strong endorsement of cooperation from the candidates to engage in the coalition." However, he still favored separate elections for Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
The disagreement between the groups centered around the basic differences between the two schools and the question of whether of not a student government merger should be considered before or after the upcoming elections. 
Orlando Rodriguez, SBVP and a member of the Notre Dame committee, st~ted that "there is a different structure and a dif­ferent spirit to hall life at Notre Dame and hall life at St. Mary's." He felt that a merged student government could not adequately represent both schools. 
Kathy Barlow, St. Mary's SBP, stated that she was in favor of complete merger so long as it involved two student body presidents. Claiming that basic differences between the two schools could only be worked out through a joint effort, Miss Barlow attacked Rodriquez' statement concerning structural differences. "I tend to see this issue not in terms of Notre Dame­St. Mary's but in terms of men and women," she said. She felt that a mandatory joint election would be an initial step. 
Fred Giuffreda, ND stay senator, proposed to leave the question of merger as a cam­paign issue in the upcoming election. The SMC committee members were strongly opposed to this idea. Miss Barlow stated "It was made an issue in last year's election, and we pledged merger before we left office". 
It soon became obvious that the NO committee would not con­sider any type of joint election proposals other than voluntary coalition. Of this, Miss Barlow commented: "I don't see any evidence that Notre Dame is willing to consider a merger . There are two non-negotiable 

Voting slated for March 

Senior Fellow Program readied 
by Pete Fries 

The use of nomination forms as opposed to an informal nomination process and the in­clusion of Saint Mary's mark changes in the Senior Fellow Program for 1972. 
This year's program will be run by Eric Andrus, former Stanford senator and Hall Life Com­missioner, and presently Off­Campus senator and member of the Student Union Academic Commission. 
In the past, seniors were asked to nominate candidates and then voted on the top nominees. This year, however, a nomination form has been sent to all seniors and from the results of these forms the top nominees will be voted upon. 
Seniors are asked to return forms before February 10 by dropping them in any on campus mailbox or by taking them to the Student Government offices in LaFortune. They may also be taken to the Off-Campus office. 

Voting for the Senior Fellow is slated for the first week of March. 
The Senior Fellow Award was previously known as the "Patriot of the Year Award" and includes such recipients as Richard Nixon, Gen. William West­moreland, AI Lowenstein, and last year William Kuntsler. 
A problem for the award in the past has been a lack of publicity for the nominees. Andrus said this would not be a problem for the 1972 award. He also added that because of an "unexpected delay" the forms were not mailed until last week. He urged seniors to have an active participation in the forms and the balloting to insure the success of this year's award. 

here and there is no point in discussing this matter further." 
The decision on a non-merger is not final however. The com­mittees will carry their recommendations back to their respective Senates and Assemblies where the matter will be brought to final resolve by the C'nd of this week. 
night  editors:  nliir,.•,  gallagher,  
jim  rue  
aethetic-in-residence:  joe  abell  

typists: helen smudski, debbie 
gras, dan rock, mark niederkorn, ginna smith 
in bed (asleep): mary collins night controller: john brady night crawlers: glen corso, john 
"babyface" abowd, don ruane, cookieman, ed ellis, jodi camp­beli, john barkett, jim me­dormant 
1:30 and we're still waiting for 
God of ~hanks for the tea, j 

MOTHER KNOWS BEST 
Proof Of Age Always Required 

THE NOTRE DAME SCIENCE QUARTERLY 
IS REORGANIZING AND NEEDS TALENTED ND & SMC STUDENTS 
Meeting: Monday, February 7 7:00pm Rm 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 


Now that you can fly to Europe for peanuts, here's how little you shell out to get around: 
$130for Two Months of unlimited rail travel in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway,Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. 
You shell out $130, and get a Student-Railpass. All you need is the bread and something to show you're a bona fide student between 14 and 25. 
Our Student-Railpass gives you all that unlimhed rail travel on the 100,000 mile railroad networks of those 13 countries. For two foot-loose months. So with low air fares and Student-Railpass you've got Europe made. 
Our Student-Railpass gets you Second Class travel on our trains. You'll find that there's very little second class about Second Cl_ass. Besides being com­fortable, clean, fast, and absurdly punctual, the Euro­pean trains have some other advantages for you. They take you from city center to city center, so you don't have to hassle airports. And the stations are helpful homes ·away from home, with Pictograms that give you informa­tion in the universal language of signs, and dining rooms, bookstores and other helpful facilities. 
Now, here's the catch. You can't get your Student-Railpass or the regular First Class Eurailpass in Europe-you have to get them before you leave the coun­try. So see your Travel Agent soon. Meanwhile, send in the coupon for a free folder, complete with railroad map. 


-----------------------------------------------------------· 
SJUDENT•RAILPASS The way to see Europe without feeling like a tourist. 
Eurailpass is valid in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. Eurailpass, Box 90, lindenhurst, New York 11757. Please send me your free Eurailpass folder with railroad map. 0 Or your Student-Railpass folder order form. 0 

Page 4 THE OBSERVER. Monday, February 7, 1972 
India, Bangladesh plan friendship pact 
<Cl 1972 New York Times News Service 

Calcutta, India and Bangladesh are likely to sign a friendship treaty for mutual defense and economic cooperation, informed sources said today. 
The Prime Ministers of the two countries, Mrs. Indira Gandhi and Sheik Mujibur Rahman, held prolonged talks here today in two sessions lasting more than three hours. soon after the Sheik's arrival. They are scheduled to meet again tomorrow. 
The Foreign Minister of 

GSU plans grief code, other services for grads 
by Marlene Zloza 

Contending that the Graduate Student Union has "intentionally stayed out of the limelight and this method has worked fairly well," GSU President Matthew 
Minnicks last night said that his organization has initiated "three major" projects, including a plan 
to  codify  all  grievance  
procedures.  
According  to  the  GSU  

President, Bill Witt and the Advanced Student Affairs Committee are asking for "something similar to the un­dergraduates student manual." They hope to present their proposal to the Board ofTrustees this spring Minnicks said. 
On the academic side, Lyn Leone is trying to achieve clarifications in the subjective evaluation system employed on graduate work. President Minnicks said students dissatisfied with grades on oral exams or dissertations want an independent agency they can appeal to for reconsideration. There is presently no established appeal procedure. 
Minnicks also said that he has attempted to obtain an income tax relief for graduate students who function as teaching assistants. A number of other schools have also been occupied 

dilteRatil thi1 notice, hut come in 
and Vltif out NEW 1toteI 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME CAMPUS OFF JUNIPER ROAD. GIFTS • BOOKS • POSTERS • GREETING CARDS OPEN MONDAY & THURSDAY TILL 7:00PM. BROWSERS WELCOME. FREE PARKING. 


AGUINAS BOOK SHOP 
18717 BULLA ROAD,SOUTH BENQIND. 46637 TELEPHONE 219/272-1704 
Bangladesh, Abdus Samad Azad, had separate meetings with Mrs. Gandhi's principia foreign policy aides, P.N. Haksar and D. Dhar. 
The pact is expected to oe modeled on the friendship treaty India signed with the Soviet Union last August, providing for Soviet support in the event of external threat to India. 
However, India's pact with Bangladesh is likely to be slightly modified, to provide for the continued presence of Indian troops in Balkjlkj 
However, India's pact with Bangladesh is likely to be slightly modified, to provide for the continued presence of Indian troops in Bangladesh to help the country maintain law and order. 
with obtaining a statement from their Administrations that a certain number of teaching hours are required to obtain an ad­vanced degree, Minnicks said. The stipend received for these hours could then be declared tax deductible by the government. 
Students are in the process of soliciting opinions from University departments on this question. The Union is also supporting a case in Oregon which is testing this legal point, said Minnicks 
Minnicks also revealed this dissatisfaction with security for graduate students. He said he felt that "the situation has not improved since last year's at­tacks on women." 
According to Minnicks, George Henry has been active in petitioning the Administration for better lighting around Lewis Hall and to allow Lewis residents to drive on campus. The University has instituted measures which allows women to request security police escorts to accompany them. 
Minnicks contended that a 
major factor in the work done 
this year is the help from Ad­
vanced Student Affairs Vice 
President Dr. R. Gordon. "Dr. 
Gordon has been helpful in all 
phases of work," said the GSU 
President. 

Although the bulk of the Indian troops has been withdrawn since the surrender of Pakistani troops in December, a sizable number remain at the request of the Bangladesh government, which has not yet been able to control the Bengali guerrillas against taking reprisals against Pakistani collaborators, mainly Bihari Moslems. Clashes have occurred between the two groups when Indian troops have been withdrawn. 
The indian military presence in Bangladesh has embarrassed both countries, being used by Pakistan as one argument against recognizing Bangladesh as an independent nation. The Moslem Bloc of nations, in particular, has indicated that unless indian "occupation for­ces" are withdrawn they would not treat Bangladesh as a free country. 
It was not known today whether the treaty, which is also expected to provide for considerable In-
sending arms to Pakistani op-I 
Hey! Do You Know That You Don't Have To Be 21 To Play Pool At 




FRANKIE'S? 
Everyday Specials  
Ocean Perch $1.25 1 0 oz. Rib-Eye Steak 112 Broasted Chicken  $1.5() $1.50  
Includes Tureen Soup, Salad,  

Bread, Butter And Coffee 
1974COULD FINDYOUJUST ANOTHER COllEGE GRAD ORAJR.EXECIN MANAGEMENT. 
If you're a young man or woman with 2 academic years remaining either at the undergraduate or graduate level, you can apply for entry in the Air Force's 2-year ROTC program, offered on college campuses all across the country. If you qualify, you'll receive a $100 a month, nontaxable subsistence allowance. And on graduating. you'll receive an officer's commission in the Air Force. Also, this year, for the first time, the Air Force is offering hundreds ofscholarships in the Air Force ROTC 2-year program paying full tuition; lab expenses; incidental fees; a text­book allowance and the same $100 each month, tax free. For more information, mail in the coupon today. Or, call 800-631-1972 toll free." Enroll in the Air Force ROTC, and get your future off the ground. 'In New Jersey callB00-962-2803. 
r-----------------------------------,
J U.S. AIR FORCE RECRUITING SERVICE 
Z-NR-ZZ J DIRECTORATE OF ADVERTISING {APV)
I RANDOLPH AIR FORCE BASE, TEXAS 78148 I Please send me more information on Air Force ROTC 
I Name DateofBirth__Scx_ 
II Address______________
I City Sratc_______ 
f Date of Graduation -College
I 
I understand there is no obligation. 

1 Find yourself a scholarship in Air Force ROTC. 
~-----------------------------------~ 
dian economic assistance, would be signed before the Sheik returns home Tuesday. 
Sheik Mujib and Mrs. Gandhi appeared at a public meeting this afternoon, to a tumultuous welcome by nearly two million Bengalis gathered at the large parade ground in Central Calcutta. The Sheik, in a 30­minute speech, recounted Pakistani exploitation of, and atrocities in, his country, warmly praised Mrs. Gandhi for Indian support and denounced the United States government for siding with Pakistan. 
"The American people sup­ported our cause, the American press supported us, but the United States government, which swears by democracy, has only helped to endanger democracy in our country," he declared. "Instead of giving us food and rellief, when our people were being starved and killed, the American government was. 

pressors  to  kill  more  of  our  
people."  
If  the  Pakistan  government  

still talks of a United Pakistan, "They are in a lunatic asylum," he said. "No Pakistani can enter my country as our masters." 
"Pushing Your Luck" is a classic, in its own time, a collector's LP that gives testimony to the brilliance of Sleepy King, one of America's great· est living soul singers. From South· ern towns to South America, Sleepy King has won friends and fortune with his bedroom voice and bounc· ing beat.This is the dawning of the blues. The sunburst of soul. Don't sleep Sleepy King's classic hit LP release. "Pushing Your Luck". The tonal quality is perfection. The message is supreme. "Pushing Your Luck"wlllwake you up. It's Classici 
SEND $6.95 MONEY ORDER TO: Awake Record/"Pushing Your Luck" Lenox Hill Station Box 572 New York City 10021 
Name__________________ 
Address _____________ 
City___St. __ Zip__ 

Monday, February 7, 1972 

THE, OBSERVER. ,a 
5 


Tom Bornholdt 



Notes from Rigel VII 
Rf'printed from the February, 2777 Playlarva Tho a few anarchists, existentialists and Christians might demur, the editorial staff of Playlarva and therefore all intelligent humanoids, considers Antmen of Rigel VII to possess the Galaxy's only perfect society. For seven million years, the Antmen have enjoyed peace and pleasure <ie. peace and piece>. Not only have they enjoyed the peace of no wars, they have enjoyed the peace of absolutely no conflict. But we will let the Antmen speak for themselves. Below is an interview with Doctor Ventham Nichtwerden, popularly known as 537-3488-7776 the Third. Doctor Nichtverden has an IQ of 101.4, which makes him the most intelligent Antman in the last six millenia. Due to this horrible abnormality, Nichtwerden was sterilized, but the Solution Selection Computers of Higel VII can make use of the deformed and so Doctor Nichtwerden became the Antmen's Ambassador and High Missionary to the Barbarians. All his life, Nichtwerden has been preaching Rigel 
VII's Utopia to the rest of the Galaxy. He has had many successes and Playlarva wishes him many more. 
Play larva: What would you say allows Higel VII to be the paradise it is? Nichtwerden: Bio-and psycho­engineering. The scientific application of genetic manipulation,. subliminal programming and environmentalstimulae have given us the key back to Eden--to use an antiquated human myth. Playlarva: Don't mock us; we've been criticizing religion for centuries. Uh, back to the point--could you give us a basic outline of the scientifically self-evident principles of Rigel VII? Nichtwerden: Of course, as is obvious to any open minded scientist that only a material set of dimensions exist and that the logical goal of all human existence is the maximizing of pleasure and the minimizing of pain, the greatest possible number of people. In Neindenk's sociological calculus, this function can be determined for a population by assigning a pleasure coefficient for each Antman and summing over the entire population then dividing by size of the population. By the use of differential calculus, Neindenk's f'unction can be maximized for a given variable. Of course, it was first necessary to discover the relation of pleasure to a particular factor. The Incredible Wisdom of Psychology gave us the answer and allowed the construction of programs by which the Solution Selection Computers make important decisions. Playlarva: Besides Neindenk's human calculus, what specific invention or in­ventions have aided the Antmen in reaching perfect happiness? Nichtwt>rden: The electronic nl'urostimulator <ENS> stands out. This 
solved the economic problem ofprovidinga large population with n plenum of pleasure. Previous to the development of the ENS, the sources of pleasure was a scarce resource. While the problem of supplying food was solved early in our barbaric history, the problem of producing enough tasty delicacies proved in-· superable. Similarly while cosmetic genetics could help, attractive sexual partners were never in a supply anywhere near sufficient to meet demand. A good deal of the pleasure producing drugs were also extraordinarily expensive. Fur­thermore there were physical limits inherent to the ancient means of pleasure production. If one ate too much one became obese. Drugs often worked havoc upon one's body. Sex could cause pregnancy and transmit disease, besides there was a limit to the orgasms one eould experience in a period of time, especially for males. Now intense, voluptuous, raw physical pleasure can be experienced by anyone for a few millicredits of electricity, with no possible risk of physical harm. Whole new delights that the ancients never dared dream of, 
can be experienced at the flick of a switch. 
There is one interesting circuit co~­nected to the ENS, called the random pattern hallucinator. It transmits to the subject's brain a continuing stream of colorful kaleidescopic sights and noises. By proper setting of the controls, the visions can be tuned from frenzied splashes of color to a continuing subdued 
monotony . Likewise the sounds can be tuned from blaring sensual noises to peaceful relaxing noises. The RPH satisfies an Antman need called "sensory input need". In primitive societies this was satisfied by something called art and music. Among the ancient barbarians the need for constant unimportant sights and sounds were partially satisfied by radio, phonographs, television and hallucogens. However, in the first three inventions, there was always a possibility that an overall rational theme might be found in the experience which might possibly stimulate the antisocial activity of ab­stract thought in a subject. 
The development of the ENS took a great deal of technological research. Many problems had to be solved by the brave psychologists which developed this marvelous machine. One interesting problem was that it proved very difficult to separate and distinguish the nerve im­pulses that gave the pleasure of heroin from those that gave the pleasure of sex, expecially spiracular sex (Editor's Note: the internal anatomy of Antmen is sur­prising humanoid). Play larva: Is life on Rigel VII simply sitting around attached to a pleasure machine? Nichtwf'rden: Oh no, quite early after the Last Turmoil, we tried to establish a society like that and it proved un­satisfactory. The contribution of the old Conservative world view to the present Utopia, was its concern for order and its realization of how many of the ancient institutions served to preserve order by the prevention of abstract thought. The psychologists soon realized the prac­ticality of this viewpoint, tho they ex­plained it in terms of minor needs that must be satisfied lest the schizophrenia of speculation and imagination set in. 
Many of the old activities still take place, therefore. People must still eat to live. All Antmen , therefore are required 


to eat a scientifically prepared meal in the 
morning, before they are allowed to 
connect the eating circuits on their 
pleasure machines. Pleasure is therefore 
dependent on the necessary activity of 
staying alive, tho the pleasure comes from 
ENS not the tasteless diet. 
Work is also required from all Antmen. All important work is fully automated, but several large factories with trivial products are manned. In this factory, one is allowed to perform work which con­tributes to the generation of the electricity ENS requires. While his work is not necessary it serves the important purpose of keeping the Antmen occupied. A sense of responsibility and a sense of purpose, two annoying but apparently inescapable minor needs are given to the Antman. The work is easily memorized for it is repetitious, we don't give the Antman anything in the way of command or challenge, less he is induced to think. Indeed, the work is physically taxing, thereby meeting his need for exercise, with the fringe benefit that hard physical exertion releases nervous tension and hinders useless thought. The physical 
discomfort is eliminated electronically, of course. 
Likewise iarge social gatherings are 

still maintained. One form is a party, 
where Antpeople gather in large groups. 
At parties, an electronic conversation 
director is employed. This variation of the 
ENS induces its subject to speak forth a 
random of words, laughs, giggles, guf­
faws, and smiles to a random chosen 
subset of the mob. Parties satisfy the 
"social need" of Antmen. Another form of 
social gathering is the ritual rally. At a 
ritual rally, an entire community gathers 
in front of the Statue of the Great 
Psychologist, and make the act of faith 
and allegiance, "I believe in Rennix, the 
Psychologist Almighty, Maker of utopia, 
etc. "What need this fulfills is not exactly 
known, but the Founding Psychologist 
Fathers demanded that it be done, so it 
must be good. 
The most important of the old in­

stitutions, however, is the family. On close 
to a billion occasions, the family has 
In the beginning 
It_ s~ems he knew from the very begmmng that something was up. She was like everyone else, but somehow she was special to him. He talked to her often, but was usually content to let it go at that. Sometimes he'd go out of his way hoping to "accidentally" run into her somewhere. He wasted a great deal of time doing this, but he didn't seem to care at all. He had a hunch she was doing the same things, t>· .• you know how hard it is to be sure about something like that. He didn't really know what was making him feel the way he did but again he had a hunch. Things that hacl previously been important to him were no longer as earthshaking. She was beginning to head his list of priorities and 

~e wouldn't have had it any other way. The time he spent with her was the only time for him; he even enjoyed dull movies and bad weather. 
It seems the worst times for him were 

his separations from her' and there were plenty of them. Oh, they were just for a week, a month, or even three months, but all he knew was that she was gone and that he was alone. 
It seems some things have slowed down a bit since the early days of their rPlationship, but not his affections. It 
·~eems that their relationship grew, not because things slowed down, but in spite of that fact. Things are different now. She seems to be more considerate of his feelings, and he of hers, but he's in a worse state now than ever. Or is it a better state'? You see, I don't know what he'd do without her, and I wouldn't guess he plans to find out. 
Things may not always be the way they are today; he may not always want to spend every minute with her, but for now I see no change in sight. You see, it seems he loves her. 
protected the Perfect Hive of Rigel VII from dangerous antisocial individuals. The principle is similar to work and eating. To be eligible for any of the per­mutations of the sexual pleasure circuits, an Antman must marry. Gamete cells are surgically removed and sent to an Ant­man factory for production. The close proximity of a spouse gives the Security Computers a most useful spy. Fur­thermore, the family gives Antmen another type of "place in the World need". Again the minor need of "responsibility sense" is satisfied for the Antman is told that he is responsible for his children though he never sees them. 
The family thus gives Society a multihandled tool against the occassional fellow who attempts continued abstract thought, despite the best conditioning the Personality Programming Computers could give in childhood. The psychotic is then threatned with the removal of the sexual circuit from his ENS. If that doesn't work, his entire ENS is removed. These steps usually work but still an occassional problem case continues to resist. At this point, the removal of his family's pleasure devices are threatened. This threat is 99 per cent effective. The remaining freaks can be treated by the application of pain, first to them, and as a last resort to their families. Altruism seems to be the one programming that sticks in these maniacs, and out of altruism, they will even give up what lack of pleasures could not. Play larva: What makes thought so dangerous to the Hive? Nichtwerden: Thought, abstract and speculative thought, is the ultimate cause of human suffering. There are two causes of war and violence. One is the need for pleasure, which required some barbarian nations to fight others for limited sources of pleasure, e.g. food, and women. This cause was satisfied when the ENS eliminated the shortage of pleasure. The second cause, however, is thought. Ab­stract thought is the opposite of common sense. Abstract thought doesn't unify people like common sense, but divides them into differing opinions. Difference in thought leads to conflict, and in some circumstances, conflict leads to war and violence. It is only by the elimination of the arbitrary chaos of human thought, have the Antmen attained everlasting peace. Play larva: Could you give us a brief history of how the Antmen attained the perfect society? Nichtwf'rdf'n: Up until our twentieth century, insanity called philosophy ob­scurred the self-discovery of the Pleasure Principle. In our twentieth century, the rise of Psychology allowed hedonism to triumph. The great F.B. Rennix smashed philosophy once and for all in his books, "Beyond Philosophy and Reason" and "Hive Seven". Soon a prototype society arose in one continent. Three world views arose concerning pleasure. All agreed that pleasure was the true good. Conservatism, however, maintained that the need for order prevented pleasure from being 
extended to the rest of Rigel VII in the near future. Liberalism maintained that by the continued application of peaceful change utopia could be brought to all. Lastly, the Radicals believed that utopia for all Rigel VII could and must be brought about by revolution. 
In 1976, the Radicals finally succeeded in their revolution. It proved more violent than expected, and a century of Turmoil passed before the present order won out. As a last act the six million remaining philosophers, poets, artists, prophets, priest, and a few theoretical physicists, chemists, and mathematicians werr executed to purge Rigel VII of their danger. Playlarva: One last question. Has anyone ever resisted the pressures of your society in the seven million years of perfection. Nichtwerdf'n: Yes, one. The most hideous pain to him, his wife, his children, could not move him to renounce Thought. We then chained him to a mountain, where everyday a vulture comes and eats his Iliver. I 
I I 
I I 
J 

Page 6_ THE OBSERVER Monday, February 7, 1972 

U.S. command doubts major Viet offense 
(c) llli2 New York Times News Service 
Hue, South Vietnam, February 5--Despite predictions to the contrary, South Vietnamese and American officers in the far north of South Vietnam are not expecting a major enemy of­fensive here this month. 
Gen. William C. West­moreland, the United States Army Chief of Staff said at a news conference in Saigon last week there was "every in­dication" that the enemy was preparing a series of attacks in February. On Thursday, in Washington Secretary of State William P. Rogers said an of­fensive was "quite likely" and would probably include the northern region. 

Westmoreland said he thought the two northernmost provinces­Quangtri and Thuathien--would be the "major battlefield." Another big battlefield, he said, would be the central highlands, with possibly some action in the central coastal plain. 
The General was one of a series of American and South Viet­namese officials to forecast an offensive coinciding with Tet, or the lunar new year, and President Nixon's trip to China. 
But he seemed to emphasize the Northern region more than did the others. 
In a series of interviews over the last three. days, the South Vietnamese generals responsible for troops in the two provinces and several other Vietnamese and Americans said they ex­pected no major enemy action until March at the earliest--well after both Tet, which begins Feb. 15, and President Nixon's trip to China, which begins Feb.21. 
Americans are no longer conducting combat operations in the area. 
"Right now indications here do not show a big offensive will happen," said Brig. General Vu 
Catholic IJlarch lacks violence 
(continued from page 1) 

miles away. "It's a question of justice and civil rights," saidCarrying the lead banner, Irish-born Mrs. Ann O'Callaghan,emblazoned with the words "civil who resides in Dundalk, whererights," Brendan Curran, a 16­her husband, Peter, is a garageyear-old unemployed youth from owner. "The treatment that these Newry, said: "They can't keep people have borne for years is aus down. After last Sunday there's shock."
no more rule in Northern Ireland. 

What the civil rights leadersIt's finished -here for the Stor­
mont Government, finished." demand is an end to the govern­Beside him, 16-year-old Paul ment's policy of internment Rafferty said: "To be a Catholic without trial, which began last in Northern Ireland is to be a August to blunt the Irish nobody. You have the right to go Republican Army. At the to Mass on Sunday, and that's it. moment more than 600 Catholic And, I'll tell you, there's the hell men have been interned. There 
of a big difference between being are also demands for equal job a working class Catholic and a opportunites, better housing and working class Protestant. They voting rights. 
get the jobs. We don't." To many Catholics, however, 
Some of the most vocal sup­the reforms are secondary to the porters of the march came from prime aim of the civil rights across the border, less than five movement: the end to the 
Profs smoke out pollution; clean up Michigan waters 
Two Notre Dame Engineering Professors believe they have found a use for the waste product in removing phosphates and other water pollutants. Dr. Mark Tenney and Dr. Wayne Echelberger, both Associate Professors; have been ex­perimenting with fly ash in Stone Lake at Cassopolis, Michig"n, for the past 5 or 6 years, acC'~·rding to Dr. Echelberger. 
A pollutant made up of un­burned coal particlu,, fly ash "chemically precipitates phosphates present in the water," Dr. Echelberger ex­plained. 
Dr. Echelberger cited the abundance of fly ash as one advantage to this method of water pollution control. 
"Over 40 million tons of fly ash are produced annually (by smoke stacks in the U.S.), creating a serious disposal problem," he stated. 
Fly ash could also "minimize repollution" of water by con­taminants contained in the mud, Dr. Echelberger contended. As it settles, "fly ash seals off the bottom," and prevents pollutants from returning to the water, he said. 
Dr. Echelberger said that he and his colleagues "are trying to get additional funds from the federal government" to continue their studies. They have been working under a grant from the Federal Water Pollution Control Administration, now part of the Environmental Protection Agency. 
According to Dr, Echelberger, there are still many "unan­swered questions" about the use of fly ash, such as the best 

ND SMC Student Union Services Comm.ission Presents 




NASSAU '72 
8 Sunny Days & 7 Funky Nights March 24-31 
Hotel Accomodations At The Hotel Montagu Round Trip Air Transportation From SBN-NASSAU -SBN All Ground Transfers Swimming, Sailing, Snorkling, Scuba Diving, Etc. 
$189 plus $13.00 Taxes Tips and Gratuities 
Tickets on Sale Now: STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE 
MWF 11:15-12:15 4:00-5:00 
TT 1 1 :1 5 -12:15 4:00-5:00 
RICHIE HAVENS WINTER CONSORT 

Sunday Feb. 13 7:30 pm in the ACC Tickets $2.50, $3.50 & $4.50 on Sale Tonight in the Dining Halls 
presented by Social Commission and the ACC 

method of application and its "effect on the total ecological system." 
"We don't think this is going to give us any trouble," he added. 
While treating sewage sludge several years ago, they noted that the water became clearer and the phosphate level dropped with the addition of the fly ash. This observation let to ex­periments at Stone Lake, where fly ash had a similar effect on the murky water, Dr. Echelberger stated. 
Dr. Echelberger also credited Dr. Philip Singer, Assistant Professor of Civil Engineering; Dr. Francis Verhoff, Assistant Professor of Chemical Engineering; and Dr. Thomas Poulson, Assistant Biology Professor with helping in what he termed an "inter-disciplinary project." 
government of Prime Minister Brian Faulkner. 
"The end to this government has all but come," said Ivan Cooper, a leader of the minority social democratic and labor party, and a popular figure in the Catholic community. "The band has stopped playing but they're still dancing." 
Faulkner himself was closely in touch with army officials through the day about the march. 
Tonight he termed the demon­stration "an exercise in irresponsible brinkmanship." 
Van Giai, the commander of the South Vietnamese Army's third division, at his headquarters in the city of Quangtri. His division mans outposts along the demilitarized zone, which straddles the border between North and South Vietnam, and is responsible for the security in most of Quangtri province. 
"It looks like logistically they have not enough support," said Major General Pham Van Phu, the commander of the first division, which operates in Thuatien Province and aportionof Southern Quantri Province. 
"They cannot make a big at­tack," General Phu went on. "They must have a couple of 

Wed. Feb. 16 Through Sun. Feb. 20 Prices $4.50, $3.50, $2.50 Student Discount 
For Thurs. 8 pm Sat. 2 pm 5un. 6 pm 
Tickets are 1 2 Reqular Price Discount Tickets must be purchased at ACC box office 
more months to move men and 
supplies." 
Field reports from the Central 
Highlands and the coastal plain 
have also cast doubts on the of­
ficial predictions. 
The field commanders believe there is considerable possibility of a dramatic Tet attack by enemy demolition sp~cialists. Their target, the commanders say, might be a symbolic building .Dr an important bridge, a place that would make headlines in 
American newspapers. 
Perhaps with the experience of 
1968 in mind, both generals have 
canceled all leaves for Tet. But 
Phu said he has yet to put his 
troops on full alert. 


Page 7 THE OBSERVER. Monday, February 7, 1972 • 
Hot shooting Irish drub LaSalle 
•
Five men zn double figures as ND snaps 7-game loss skein 
by Vic Dorr those points back before the half 
I'Prhaps Tom Dennin, who mded. 
handled the radio broadcast of Explorer coach Paul 
Saturday night's basketball Wt•sthead's game plan was to 
game between Notre Dame and give the Irish the outside shots, 
LaSalle, said it best. but .John Egart, Gary Novak, and 
With slightly more than two Willie Townsend made a minutes to go in the first half of shambles of this strategy and that game, Dennin looked up at helped Notre Dame blow the the Palestra scoreboard (which game wide open early in the 
read Notre Dame 41, LaSalle 27) second half. Egart hit on five of and admitted: "It's been a long ten shots from the field, by far his time, friends. A long time." best showing of the season, and 
Novak connected on nine of 16.
It had been a long time--since But Willie Townsend was the man.January 15, to be exact--but who attracted much of Phelps'
Saturday night the Irish 
attention.
basketball team snapped a seven­"I thought Willie played ex­game losing streak--they beat tremely well," said Digger. "HeLaSalle, 97-71. 
was giving us what we need from The Irish won with hot shooting him on the boards, and he wasfrom the field (40 of 77) and with hitting the open shots." Town­
adequate shooting from the 
send scored 17 points and snaredlinell7-27). They won with a· 12 rebounds for the Irish, anddefense which was tough inside earned team runner-up honors in and which blocked a good both categories.
number of Explorer shots. But Gary Novak led the Irish withthe biggest factor, according to 20 points and 15 rebounds. Doncoach Digger Phelps, was Silinski matched Novak'srebounding. And here the Irish rebound total and scored 15squad rolled up a 59-41 ad­points besides. John Egart and vantage. 
Tom O'Mara each notched 14"We played a lot of teams that points for the Irish. 
w<>re extremely physical up front The first few minutes of thethis year," said Phelps. "They second half saw Phelps' team came after us and beat us on the turn the game into laughter.
hoards. This is no reflection on Controlling the boards at bothLaSalle, but we were able to beat ends of the floor, the Irish out­them on the boards and that was scored the Explorers 16-5, andwhat won it for us." 
coasted into a 32-point lead withLaSalle, now 6-13, ran to a 5-0 7::30 left to play.
lead with just 90 seconds gone in LaSalle placed four starters inthe first half, but that was to be double figures, but was never intheir biggest lead of the evening. 
the ball game after the first 20A sparse Palestra crowd saw the minutes. Jim Crawford andI<:xplorers hold their last ad­Steve Baruffi shared the scoringvantage at 15-14, but after that it honors for the Explorers with 15 was all Notre Dame. 
each. Jim Haggarty had 12 andThe Irish, with a height ad­Joe DiCecco 11 for LaSalle, andvantage of nearly four inches per Crawford was the leading Ex­man, began dominating the plorer rebounder with 14.
hoards midway through the first half, and just pulled away from Sports lecture the out-manned Explorers. 
Professor Greg Stone of the U.
Back-to-hack jumpers by Tom of Minnesota. a leading authority O'Mara and a rebound basket by on the sociology of sport, will give Willie Townsend put Notre Dame a lecture entitled "Sport in up 41-27 at the 1:56 mark, and American Society" tomorrow atLaSalle could get only two of 12:15 in the Library Auditorium. 


Thine/ads second at Ohio State 
by John Wick The Notre Dame indoor track team was defeated Saturday by a strong Air Force Academy contingent but topped Ohio State 
at OSU's French Field House. The final score of the triangular meet was Air Force 66, Notre 
Dame 56, and Ohio State 51. 
Tom McMannon paced the Irish in the sprints with his first place finish in the 70-yd, high hurdles, covering the distance in 
8.5 
seconds while his brother, Mike, pulled in a fourth place in 

9.0. 
Tom then returned to place second in the 70-yd. low hurdles with a time of 8.0, just a breath away from Bruce Bennett of the Air Force who finished in the same time. 


Freshman Eric Penick ran a speedy 6.2 in the 60-yard dash but was edged out of first place by . Jimmie Harris of Ohio State, who was clocked at 6.1. Penick returned later, however, and sped to victory in the 300-yard dash in the time of 31 seconds. Last week in the meet against Miami of Ohio Eric won both events with times of 6.3 and 32.1 respectively. 
Greg Cortina led the field in the shot put with his heave of 59' 6ll2 " of 55'10". In the other field <>vents, Mike McMannon took second in the long jump with a leap of 23'. Mike then went on to place second in the high jump, clearing the bar at 6'4". In this event , the top four finishers cleared the bar at 6'4" but first place went to the competitor with the least number of misses at that height. 
Mike later finished first in the lriple jump competition where he hopped, skipped and jumped to a dista,nce of 46'7" while his broth~r Tom took third place with a jump of 44'9". There were no Notre Dame scorers in the pole vault competition. 
Freshman Mike Gahagan pulled in a second place in the mile run with the time of 4:17.5 while 1 Dave Bell finished fourth in 4:20.7. Gene Mercer placed second in the 1000-yd. run with a time of 2: 17.3. Cross­country standout Dan Dunne came in third in the two mile run, timed in 9: 11.8, and Don Creehan was second for the Irish in the liOO-yard run with the time of 
I: 13.9. Gahagan, after competing in the mile, returned to grab second place in the 880-yd. run with a good time of 1.56.4 Notre Dame runners failed to score in the 440-yard dash. 
Next weekend the track team will travel to East Lansing, Michigan, for the Michigan State Belays. 
The game moved NO's record 

to 4-13, while it left the Explorers 
with a li-13 slate. The Irish, who 
have earned three of their four 
wins on the road, will be back at 
the Convocation Center Tuesday 
night, where they will attempt to 
run their streak to two in a row 
against St. John's. 
St. John's will not be an easy 

opponent. The Redmen are a tall 
team with a front line that goes 6­
7, 6-8, 6-10. They are led by 6-7 
Mel Davis, an All-American 
candidate, and should give Notre 
Dame all the trouble it can 
handle. 
But Digger Phelps wasn't 

worried about that after Satur­
day night's runaway. "We've got 
a winner now," he said. "Tell 
everybody to come out Tuesday 
to see us play St. John's. 
Fencers up slate to 8-0 
The Notre Dame fencing team 

extended their record to 8-Q 
Friday and Saturday at the ACC 
with victories over Milwaukee 
Tech, U. of Illinois at Chicago 
Circle, Wisconsin Parkside and 
Oberlin College. 
The Irish fencers have won 18 

consecutive matches over a two­
year period. 
l<'riday night, Notre Dame drubbed Milwaukee Tech 22-5. The Irish posted a perfect 9-0 sw<>ep in the epee while winning the foil event 7-2, and the sabre eompetition 6-3. 
Saturday, the epee team again won all nine of their bouts as the Irish breezed past UICC, 22-5. 
Wisconsin Parkside was Notre Dame's next victim, bowing 16­
11. Junior Epee man Mike Matranga turned in an out­standing effort against WP, defeating All-America candidate John Hanzilack, 5-4, after trailing, 4-Q. 
The final match, against Oberlin, was another Irish romp, with 21 people figuring in the final 19-8 verdict. 
Both the epee and foil teams finished the weekend with 28-8 marks, while the Irish posted a 23-13 slate in the sabre. In­dividual leaders were Jim Mullenix, 7-0, in the foil, Tim Taylor and Chuck Harkness, both 5-1 in epee, and Ron Sollito and Matt Fruzynski won five of six sabre bouts. 
Notre Dame will face stiffer competition in their next outing, hosting the highly touted U. of Detroit team Saturday in the 
ACC. 
Fanning wins Nat. Cath. title 
Notre Dame's outstanding freshman heavyweight, Mike Fanning, hiked his season record to 17-0 by winning four matches while capturing first place in his weight class in the National Catholic collegiate wrestling tournament Saturday in Cleveland. 
Fanning was the only Notre Dame wrestler to win a title as the Irish placed fi{th in the team competition. 
The 245-pound Fanning pinned his first three opponents, boosting his school record total to 15 pins this year, and was a 6-2 victor in his final match. 
Co-captain Ken Ryan reached the finals before bowing in the \58-pound class and Rich Comar was fourth in the 177-pound division. 
St. John's <Minn.l took the team title. 

-
.John Egart pum·ed in II Jloints to help the Irish snap a seven-game !using stn•ak with a !li-il victory over LaSalle Saturday in the Palt•stra. 


Swimmers win two 
by E.J. Kinkopf 

N.D.-Wayne State The Notre Dame swim team 
400-yard medley relay: l. Notre
raised its record to 6-2 this Dame (Graham. Fischer, Fahey,weekend with victories over Sherk). Time: 3:50.118. 
1,000-yard freestyle: I. O'Connor
Oakland University and Wayne 
(ND), II: 18.75; 2. M. Deters (WS),State. 11:26.52; 3. Walz (ND), 11:37.75. Paced by double firsts by Jim 200-yard freestyle: I. Kane (ND), l:'iO.l'i; 2. Meagher (ND), 1:52.81; 3. D.
Kane and Ed Graham on Friday 
Haley (WS), I :58.76. (New pool record;night, Coach Dennis Stark's old 1:50.9 by J. Campbell ol Oakland in 196!1.)
tankers eased past Oakland U., 
50-yard freestyle· I. Krathaus (ND),
60-53. 
::22.86; 2. Chance ("'S), :%3.28; 3. Sherk Kane took blue ribbons in the (ND). :23.46. 
200-yard individual medley: I. tra­
100 and 200 yard freestyles and 
ham (ND), 2: 11.211; 2. N. Baggett (WS),Graham won his firsts in the 200 %: 12.15; 3. Celina (WS), 2:13.69. (New yard individual medley and the varsity record; old re"cord 2: IU by 
Graham Feb. 4.)
200 yard backstroke. 
l·meter dh·ing: I. Reaves (WS),Other NO swimmers to place 251.45 points; 2. Sliwinski (WS), 202.35; first in the dual meet were Joe 
3. LaFratta (ND), 184.00. 200-yard butterfly: I. Fahey (ND),
O'Connor, 1,000 yard freestyle, 
2:10.71; 2. Starck (ND), 2:13.06; 3. Hale 
Mike Fahey, 200 yard butterfly, (WS), 2::!0.58. IIJO.yard freestyle: I. Kane (ND),
and Jim Meagher, 500 yard 
:49.36; 2. Chance (WS), :51.87; 3. Wilcoxfreestyle. ( N D), :52.47. (New pool record: old On Saturday, winning all but record :49.6 by J. May or Notre Dame in 1968; also ND varsity record, old
four events, the tankers drubbed 
:49.4 by Kane Feb. 4).Wayne State, 67-46. 200-yard backstroke: I. D. Baggett The dual meet in Detroit saw (WS), 2: 16.93; 2. Colina(WS), 2: 18.25; 3. Balthrop (ND), 2::!0.90.
the Irish establish two Wayne 
500-yard freestyle: I. Meagher (ND), State, Matthaei Pool, records and 5:19.21; 2. O'Connor(ND), 5::!0.90; 3. D two Irish varsity records. Haley (WS). 5:42.14. 
200-yard breaststroke: I. Adamczyk
Jim Kane set the pool marks, 
(WS), 2:25.44; 2. Fischer (NO), 2:25.91;while winning the 100 and 200 3. Mattern (WS), 2:27.83. :J.met~r diving: I. Reavl's (WS),
yard freestyles, and also set a 
%28.00 points; 2. Sliwinski (WS), 222.50;
Notre Dame varsity record in the 3. LaFratta (ND), 169.75. 100 yard freestyle with a time of ~ freestyle relay: I. Notre 
Dame ( t<rathaus, Short, Wilcox,
:49.36 eclipsing a mark of :49.4 he 
Sberk) Timl'· 3·211.J 
set the night before against Oakland. 
N.D.-Oakland U. 

Ed Graham set the other 400-yard mt•dley relay: Oakland (Dowdy. Foxlee, Karas. Nil"hols),
varsity mark in the 200 yard 
3:54.7.individual medley with a clocking 1.000 lreestyl~: I. O'Connor (NO) 2. of 2:11.29. Ed broke his own 
Bryk (Uakland) 3. Gibson (Oakland), 11:00
record of 2: 11.5, also set the night 
200 freestyle: Kane (NO) 2 Meagherbefore in the Oakland U. meet. (NO) 3. Ludwinski (Oakland). 1:51 4 50 freestyle: I. Growth (Oakland) 2.
Others contributing firsts to the 
Krathaus (NO) 3. Sherk (ND). 22.9.
Irish victory were Joe O'Connor, 200 Individual Medley: I. Graham 1,000 yard freestyle, Gene (ND) 2. Russella (Oakland) 3. Foxlee (Oakland) 2:11.5 (new varsity record,
Krathaus, 50 yard freestyle, Mike 
old record 2:12.3 by Tom Burke in 1966)Fahey, 200 yard butterfly and l·meter divmg: Parker (Oakland) 2. Jim Meagher, 500 yard freestyle. La Fratta (ND) 3. Lauinger (Oakland) 
226.2 points.The Irish relay squads also 200 buHerny: I. Fahey (NO) 2. Karas 
..
copped two firsts. The quartet (Oakland) 3. Strack (NO) 2:011.7. 100 freestyle: Kane (ND) 2. Groth
of Ed Graham, .Jim Fisher, Mike 
(Oakland) J Krathaus (NO). 49.4 (NewFahey and John Sherk won the record. replaces old mark or 49.6 held 400 yard medley relay, and Gene by John May in 196H). 
200 backstroke: I. Graham (ND) 2.
Krathaus, Brian Short, Mark 
Balthrop (NO) 3. Dawdy (Oakland).
Wilcox and John Sherk combined 2 16 9. to win the 400 yard freestyle 500 lreestylr: I. Mea~:her (Nil) 2. O'Connor (NO) 3. Byrk (Oakland).
relay. 
5:15.3. The next Irish meet is 200 breaslroke· I. F"oxlre (Oakland) 
2. Fischer (NO) J. Colbert (ND). 2 25 J
scheduled for Saturday at 2 
:I-meter diVIng Parker (Oakland) 2.o'clock in the Rockne pool. The Laf'ratta (NO) 3. Lawnger (Oakland) opposition will be St. Bonaven­231 p<~ints 
400 freestyle relay: I. Oakland
ture University, the NO tanker's 
(Nichols. Gibbs. Groth. Van l>ykt•).
biggest rival. 3 2R4. 
• 
Monday, February 7, 1972

THE OBS,ERVER

Page 8 
Political party opposes "big government" 
>c> 1!172 New York Times News Service 
Denver, February 6--The Libertarian Party, a new political party stressing op­position to big government and dedication to civil and economic freedom, has made a quiet national debut in Denver. 
"We feel the situation in America today is that there is no political party which consistently defends human freedom," said David F. Nolan, 28 years old, the temporary national chairman of the party. 
Nolan said the right wing of Americn politics stressed economic freedom but would restrict civil liberties. The left wing, he said takes an opposite stand, favoring civil liberties, but restricting business. And both would give excessive power to the federal government. 
The result, he said is confusion and a lack of principles with the two major )political parties that include both left-wing and right-wing thought. 
The New Libertarian Party, he 
said would cut government in­
tervention sharply both at home 
and abroad and encourage civil 
liberties and unrestricted 
Ombudsman oks Grolier Society 
The Ombudsman staff has investigated and cleared the Grolier Society, now contacting Notre D:Ime students, according to Ombudsman Paul Dziedzic. 
The Grolier Society offers 
upperclassmen especially those 
who will be making major pur­
chases in the coming years, a 
chance to save money, Dziedzic 
said. 
By signing up with the Grolier 
Society and paying the yearly 
dues members can purchase a 
variety of rand-name products 
including cars, appliances and 
other items for retail costs. 
Represent.atives of the Grolier 
Society can be contacted during 
this week in room 234 of the 
Morris Inn. 
.. 
capitalism. 
At a news conference last Wednesday at the Cosmopolitan Hotel in Denver announcing the new party, Nolan and Pipp M. Boyls, temporary vice-chairman, said its national membership totaled 250 persons. They said party organizations had been set up in Colorado, Texas, California, Utah and Michigan. 
The party's goals are to have 10,000 members by election day in November and to form itself into a major third party force in the United States by 1980. 
Nolan works in Denver as a writer and salesman, Boyls is a lawyer and investment counselor in Colorado Springs. 
A heavy majority of the party's membership comes from among former republicans, Nolan said, adding that two years ago, he served as chairman of the Massachusetts Young Republicans organization. 
Since the late 1960's there has 
been a libertarian wing in the 
Conservative Young Americans For Freedom. The Society for Individual Liberty, which follows libertarian principles, has offices in Philadelphia and issues a newsletter. 
However, Nolan stressed that the new party had no ties to any other party or organization. 
Much of the emphasis for party growth will be on college cam­puses. Members are offered a rebate from their $6.00 annual membership dues for each new person they recruit. 
Nolan said the party hoped to have 1,000 members by June when it plans a national con­vention in Denver to nominate a presidential candidate. 
Among the positions taken in the temporary national platform are these: 
--Repeal of all criminal laws in which there is no victim. 
--Full freedom of speech and of the press, along with repeal of the Federal Communications Act. 
--Opposition to preventive detention and "no knock" laws and to wiretapping, except in 

SMORGASBORD 
Every Monday 5-9 pm $1.;25 All you can eat 
Every Wednesday evening 
$1.00 PITCHER 
NIGHT 
AND LIVE ENTERT1\.INMENT 
Every Friday night 

LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
Every Saturday night 

POLKA BAND·DANCING 
Open Weekdays ll a.m. -12 p.m. 
LAUREL &HARDY \~~ 
PIZZA PALACE ~·'-'~-~~ 
4ti10 Western Ave. Belleville Shoppinr Center 
Phone 289-7-983 
cases where "high standards of probable cause" exist to believe that a crime has been committed. 
--Immediate abolishment of the draft and amnesty for those who have avoided it. 
--Support for private ownership of gold. 
--Repeal of the ;Interstate Commerce Act and the National Labor Relations Act as govern­mental impediment to a free market and eventual elimination of the federal reserve system. 
--End tax discrimination against single persons. 

-End subsidies at home and tariffs and quotas on foreign imports. 
--End all foreign aid, abandon "attempts to act as a policeman for the world," and withdraw from the United Nations but continue to maintain nuclear deterrance. 
--No commitment to battle of American troops without Senate approval and an immediate with­drawal from Indochina. 
Senior Bar Open Tuesday Feb. 8 After Basketball Game Featuring Chris Manion 
Banjo Player From The Village Inn 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
POETRY WANTED for An­thology. Include stamped en­velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California. 90021. 
STUDENTS WANTED for small technical school. Curricuum ECPD accredited. Major in 9 fields of drafting, 2 fields of Civil and Electronics. A.S. Degree. 
Industry recruits on our campus. Transfers accepted February 14th through 21st. Institute of Drafting and Technology, Morrison, Illinois, 61270. 
Need ride for HTH from Penn State (along 1-80) to N D for weekend of Feb. ll. Will Share$. Bob 1782. 
Desperately need riders for 2 young ladies from Kent State to Notre Dame and back on the weekend of February 11, 12, and 
13. Call 6987 and ask for John or Ken. 
-----------------~ 
Need ride to Poughkeepsie or New York Feb. 10 1464. 
PERSONALS 
HI MAX 
LOST AND FOUND -· ---------------­
Lost Dark-frame eyeglasses between Stadium and Stanford. 7966. 
Found: 2calculus books, Calculus and Analytical Geometry by Biddle. Please claim at Pan­dora's Books. 
Lost: Glass with dark brown frames in brown case. Somewhere between Nieuwland and Engineering Bldgs. Bob 1185. 
Lost: Electric wristwatch, Black band with buckle. Mark 1730. 
FOR SALE 
Parts and Accessories tor Im­ported cars Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland J 272-7187. 
For Sale: Martin d-35 G String; Kuston Amp--100 Watt, 4 Chan; Shure Mike & Stand; Gibson F­Hole Electric. All new. 232-6383. 
New 50mm F2 Nikkor lens, $60. Call Bob at 8395. 
New STEREO SPEAKERS combining excellent sound and decorative looks at reasonable prices. Call 283-8462 or come to 101 Sorin. 
S-track tapes for sale. 230 Fisher, 1972. 
Preferred Renters 4 bedroom, newI y redecorated apartment, Kitchen, bath and dining facilities. $50 per month per student. 742 West Indiana. Call 2726665. 
Handcarved Meerschaum pipes 
direct  from  Istanbul  all  first  
quality  Student prices.  287-4389.  
Zak  

For Sale: 1968 MGB-GT dark green, wire wheels radial tires, phone 219-362-8087. 
NOTICES 
DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and Within Europe. Leave anytime from NY-Chicago. Flight Center 227 North Randall, Madison, WI 53706 (608) 263-3131. 
Need typing done??? Will do typing for reasonable rates and on short notice .. don't waste time pecking away.-Call Chip at 8256. 
INTERESTED IN JOINING A GROUP OF STUDENT MARKET INVESTORE? CALL 233-3893. 
.. ------------------­ROME, ITALY. Summer Program. Stimulating 
curriculum. Outstanding faculty. Etruscan Archeology Program. Transferable credits. June 12 ­July 19. $760. Write: Trinity College-Rome Campus Trinity College Hartford, Connecticut. 06106. 
Words lda 2da 3da 4da 5da 
l-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 !".30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 







