~-------­
On The Inside 
Catholics react in N. Ireland ... p. B 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Monday, April 24, 1972
Vol. VI, No. 115 
Meningitis strikes student 
A case of dangerous spinal meningitis was discovered on campus this weekend, ac­cording to Richard Conklin, director of public information. 
Sophomore Michael Kearse, a Morrissey resident and Student Union member, collapsed Friday night in the hall and was taken to Memorial Hospital in South Bend. Yesterday morning doctors diagnosed the symptoms as those of 'spinal meningitis, a highly contagious inflammation of the membrane which encloses the spinal chord and brain. 
Dr. Francis Sellers, University physician, immediately notified county health officers and Notre Dame officials. Friends of Kearse are being alerted and urged to seek preventive treatment immediately. Over 100 students have already been to the in­firmary for sulfa drugs which are almost 100 per cent effective in countering the progression of the disease. 
Demand for the drugs soon exhausted available infirmary supplies, and also those in South Bend. However, it will be replenished be tomorrow afternoon. 
Kearse is an employee of the South Dining hall; this fact has prompted much concern 

Memingitis i_s an infectious disease of the brain linings and of the central nervous system. The relatively rare disease is caused by the bacterial nisseria meningiditus. 
The symptoms, among others, are a high fever, a stiff neck, and a rash. It is con­sidered contagious within "family contact," meaning that it can be spread among members of a section, classroom, or a social group. It is a respiratory or "droplet" in­fection, spread in a way similar to the cold. 
Meningitis is prevented by administering sulfa drugs, and, once it begins, is treated by penicillin. It is not known how and from where the disease originates. There have been no recently reported cases in St. Joseph County. The last reported case on the Notre Dame campus was in 1955. 
about the number of students exposed to the disease. However, Conklin assured the Observer last night that there was "no fear of an epidemic," but that necessary precautions were a must. 
Dr. Howard R. Engel, internal medical specialist and Kearse's attendant physician, said that he was "very encouraged" as to the student's prospects for complete recovery. But he added a note of warning , saying that anyone with a persistent fever and sore throat should seek treatment immediately, as these are possible symp­toms of meningitis. 
A spokesman at Memorial Hospital last night listed Kearse in "poor" condition. 
Kearse is an employee of the South Dining 
hall; this fact has prompted much concern 
about the number of students exposed to the 
disease. The infirmary last night indicated 
that there was no cause for alarm among 
students who regularly eat there. 
"If you think you've been in contact with 
him, then the drug should be taken," a nurse 
advised. 

However, Conklin assured the Observer last night that there was "no fear of an ~:;pidemic," but that necessary precautions were a must. 

North Vietnamese offense enters fourth week 
regular defenses and throw them because of the fighting. They are time to prevent the South Viet­Saigon, where an estimated 20,000by Craig R. Whitney into the large scale fighting. As a unlikely to take seriously, at least namese from reinforcing the Third to 30,000 North Vietnamese troops
(c) 1!172 New York Times result, local main force Vietcong for some time, the claims of the Division with a brigade of 2,000 began moving south on Highway 13 I units in the heavily populated government that they will be marines and nine battalions of from their base areas in Eastern Mekong Delta area, which was safely protested under its rule. about 400 rangers each. The Cambodia on April 5. 1 
The North Vietnamese offensive stripped of the 21st division, and on reinforcements, plus air power, Easily overrunning the districtof 1972, now in its fourth week, the central coast in Binhdinh and Vietcong are credited with staving off the headquarters of Locninh and I 
I
shows no sign of diminshing in Quantri provinces have expelled rural attack fall of Quangtri City in the early capturing a number of South
intensity, despite an apparent 

all government presence from a stages of the offensive. Vietnamese artillery pieces there, ~ 
stalemate on the two fronts at number of districts. Vietcong attacks--as In an indication that something the North Vietnamese encircled
Anloc and south of the The biggest expected offensive distinguished from those of the had gone wrong, North Viet­and began the siege of theDemilitarized Zone. North Vietnamese--so far have
of all, in the central highlands namese sappers were trying to provincial capital of Anloc, where 1 
New reinforcements are been limited to rural areas like
region around Pleiku and Kontum destroy the main bridge leading a garrison of 6,000 to 7,000 men of 
~ 
believed to be on their way south provinces, has not yet begun on the Binhdinh where their strength has north from Quangtri City to the Fifth Infantry Division has 1 across the zone and a new push same scale as in Binhlong and remained impressive over the Dongha as late as April 10. This been under daily attack and 
years. So far, there has been no

may be imminent in Quangtri Quangtri. But Communist forces was well after the government bombardment ever since.
general uprising of the kind that

province where the South Viet­have already succeeded in cutting reinforcements had arrived. Realizing the seriousness of the
had scores of South Vietnamese

namese have been holding the main roads into and out of the One American officer suggested attacks there, the government
cities and towns in flames in the

positions at Dongha and Guangtri area, and it will be difficult for that the North Vietnamese had not pulled the 21st Infantry Division
Tet offensive of 1968. Whether this 

City since falling back at the government forces to resupply and counted on being able to take the 15 out of the Mekong Delta on April 8,
is because the Communists plan to

beginning of the month. reinforce in the highlands when the fire bases between the and its 10,000 men began moving 
conduct their 1972 offensive in

Moreover, intelligence officials big push from an estimated 30,000 demilitarized zone and Dongha north up Highway 13 to believe
discreet piacPs, as American in­

here believe that communist to 40,000 North Vietnamese troops City in two days as they did, and Anloc on April 9.
telligence officials believe, or

forces in eastern Cambodia are does come from the mountains in had outrun their own timetable. 
The division stalled about 10
preparing to open a new push because their indigenous forces in
lhe west. Since then the South Vietnamese miles south of Anloc and after
many areas are too weak to do

toward Saigon to draw troops away forces . have held off all further repeated attempts to breakfrom the fighting at Anloc. Thus, U.S. military aid anything, as some military men attempts by the North Vietnamese through the Communist siege on
the future course of the fighting is suggest, will become clear only to move down the coastal lowlands the ground gave up late last week. 
with the passage of time.

uncertain. Some points however, from the mountains to the west, Its mission now is to defend its ownare clear about what has happened The U.S. government, depsite The North Vietnamese offensive both in Quangtri Province and in
repeated assurances by all high on both the major fronts, at flank and rear between Laikhe and 
so far including: Thuathien Province, where the old 
officials of their faith in the ability Quangtri and Binhlong, has been a the farthest point of its advance.
After giving way to the North imperial capital of Hue is being Meanwhile, a brigade of 2,000
of the South Vietnamese forces to main force semi-conventional style 
Vietnamese onslaught in Quangtri defended by 12,000 men of the First
withstand the enemy assaults by campaign anlike those that they airborne troops that had been
province on April I, and in nor­Division.
themselves, found it necessary to hav~ waged in South Vietnam over spearheading the advance was
thern Binhlong province April 5, "In 1968 we had the U.S. Third lifted out by helicopter andSouth Vietnamese troops, heavily pour hundreds of jet fighter­the past few years. What makes it Marine Division, and the 101st dropped into Anloc to reinforcebombers and B-52's back into not wholly conventional is their
reinforced. have held tenaciously Airborne Division, and the First the troops there.
Southest Asia theatre to support way of stealthily infiltrating their
to their fallback positions in both South Vietnamese Division up in 
places for more than two weeks the beleaguered government men and tanks through the jungles, those areas, and the North Viet­Inept tanks
troops after a three-year policy of depsite electronic devices and
despite heavy enemy artillery namese were: inside Hue on the
troop withdrawals. There has bombers and then suddenly
bombardment and repeated armor first day of the Tet Tet offensive,"
actually been an increase of about showing up in force to assault
thrusts with tanks. To do it they one American official said the At Anloc the North Vietnamese
20,000 men in the Southeast Asia .governmentpositions in the open.
have depended heavily on their other day to underline his op­showed the same inept use of tanks
theater of operations over the
own and American air power. Effective as the North Viet­timism about the Northern front. as they did in the north in
past thee weeks, although the total 
Th~ determined North Viet­namese forces on the northern "It took the Americans, with Quangtri. For days, small groups 
number of troops in Vietnam is on
namese pushes against Quangtri front were in the first days of the reinforcements, a month to drive of four to eight tanks would come
its way down to a projected 69,000
and Anloc, and the expectation of offensive, they showed some them out. This yPar there's only rumbling out of the rubber plan­
by May I. The increase is in the
an equally determined one in the puzzling shortcomings. the First and Third ARVN (Army tations into the streets of the
greatly bolstered Seventh fleet
central highlands, quickly forced Although the Commn'1ilits had of the Republic of Vietnam) northern half of the town, which
aircraft carrier and naval gunfire more than I 00 Russian-built heavy
the government to commit its divisions up there and they've not fell to Communist control briefly
force offshore and at the five
entire strategic reserve force--the and light amphibious tanks in the got in yet." on April 13. American and South
American airbases in Thailand,
10,000-man a1rborne division, the area. their use of them was inef­What will happen if the North Vietnamese planes and helicop­13,000 men of the three marine which have been launching fective and small assaults by tank Vietnamese succeed in bringing up ters had little difficulty knocking
missions against North Vietnam
brigades, and its 34,000 Angers--to companies--six or eight of the reinforcements from their 325-C them out, and the Vietnamese have 
every day since April 6.
the three fronts. tracked vehicles at a time without Division to the Quangtri front, as held to the southern two thirds of
There has been grave and a combined infantry attack--were they are believed to be doing now, the town though suffering hun­

Reserve force perhaps irredeemable damage easily repelled by the South is unknown dreds of casualties.
done to pacification, the collection Vietnamese, who used their own The South Vietnamese defen­
inadequate of miltary and political programs tanks. artillery fire and aerial ders, according to American
Focus on Anloc

designed to establish the Saigon 
bombardment to destroy them. helicopter pilots who fly over theIt now appears that the strategic government's control in rural and 
Neither local Vietcong units nor area, did not venture far from their 
reserve force was an inadequate outlying areas that have long been infiltrated North Vietnamese But the focus of the govern­compounds inside the town,one and the government has had to under contention. An estimated sappers succeeded in blowing up ment's attention has shifted to leaving the rubber plantationsstrip many relatively pacified 250,000 people have had to flee bridges on the main road, Highway Binhlong and Binhduong surrounding it as sanctuaries for 
areas of the country of their their homes on the various fronts One. leading to Quangtri Citv. in Provinces, only 30 miles north of the enemy. (continued on pg. 6) 
the observer Monday, April 24, 1972
2 


world 

briefs 
((') l!li:! N«>w York Times 
llouston --The third moon exploration expedition ended and their craft packed with 245 pounds of rocks from the lunar surface, the Apollo 16 astronauts rocketed from the moon's surface Sunday. The two moon explorers steered their craft, Orion, toward the reunion with the com­mand ship that has been orbiting the moon during their three days there. 
Nt>w \'m·k --The pay board, the nation's organized newspaper publishers reported approvingly, has been increasingly firm in their enforcing of wage controls. At a meeting in New York, the publishers said their papers had reached new circulation and advertising records last year --and a decline in employment. The industry is the nation's fifth largest employer. 
Washington --Sen. George McGovern was overwhelmingly endorsed for president by Americans for Democratic action at a convention in Washington. But the liberal group turned down a proposal to brand Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey and three other dernocrtats "unacceptable;" and it decided instead to reconvene if McGovern does not win the democratic nomination. 
l\1iddlt>town. N.J.--Marine sentries and local policeman arrested a dozen antiwar demonstrators who were attempting to climb onto the munitions pier at the Earl Naval Ammunitions Depot in Middletown. The demonstrators. members of a Philadelphia-based peace group, wanted to delay loading of a munitions ship believed bound for Vietnam. 

on campus today 
7: 
Jo.. meeting, mock collective bargaining, library auditorium. 

7: 
Jo .. meeting, mecha, elections, basement of Iafortune. 


7:Jo..opening, democratic mock convention, opening session, stepan center. 
7:30, duplicate bridge, flanner hall card room. 
12:00, meeting, movement to protest the war, fiesta lounge Iafortune. 
3:00 rowing, nd crew hosts min­nesota and washburn, mishawaka marina. 
Platform approves legal marijuana 
by John Comiskey grounds that such interference minority opinion, in reaction to gay which such action would be subject 
undermines the system of checks liberation policies, calls for the to. but not require, congressional 
In a seven and a half hour and balances. reaffirmation of the monogamous approval. marathon session, the Platform A potentially controversial heterosexual unit as the basis of Indo-China policy included total Committee of the Mock proposal of the Economic sub­American society. withdraw! of ground forces and Democratic Convention passed a committee was that of wresting Legalization of marijuana, with ceasation of bombing by a publicly platform reflecting a general tone control of the economy from the government controls similar to specified date, withdraw! of of self determination on the in­economic oligarchy of the Big those on alcohol, and the support of the Thieu regime, im­dividual, national, and in­Business-Big Government legalization and licensing of mediate enforcement of the ternational levels. coalition through the establish­prostitution were proposed by lhe Geneva convention concerning 
The committee had previously ment of a democratic socialism .Jm.tice and Law subcommittee. prisoners of war, and formed six subcommittees con­providing for government ad­Proposals by the Foreign Affairs redevelopement of both North and centrating in Government, ministration of collective goods subcommittee included phased South Vietnam. Economic Policy, Environment, and services. A minority amend­reduction of the defense budgEt, General Military policy endorses Opportunity, Justice and Law, and ment proposed nationalization of and a seven day limit on the dissolution of the Selective l•'oreign Affairs. major industries, including presidential commitment of Service System and the establish­
Platform committee chairman, railroads. steel, and automobile military forces abroad, after ment of an all volunteer army. 
Hick Harrison, said that, although manufacturing. he expects considerable discussion The Environmental sub-of major issues, he does not an­committee proposed official ticipate any floor fights concerning recognition and preservation of 
the platform. previously unprotected wilderness 
Among the proposals of the areas. and strict adherance to Government subcommittee were present automobile pollution level the return of home rule to Jaws. 
Washington, D.C. through The rights of minorities, in­dissolution of the Senate com­eluding women, Indians, Spanish 
' mittee that presently governs the speaking Americans, and
• 
city, and opposition of interference homosexuals were stressed in the with court ordered busing on the Opportunity subcommittee. A
• Women attackS. B. Tribune 
FACULTY NOTICE 
Tne Faculty Manual Committee will continue to welcome written recommendations for the revision of the FACULTY MANUAL until April 25th, 1972. These recom. mendations should be submitted to Prot. James Robinson. These revisions may concern either the present FACULTY MANUAL or the proposed changes to the MANUAL found in ND Report No. 
15. 
The Committee report will be made to the Faculty Senate on Thursday, Apr. 27 at 7:30pm in the Aud. of the Center for Continuing Educatipn. The Faculty at large is encouraged to attend this meeting. 
(Signed) The Executive Com mittee of the Faculty Senate. 

PROSPECTUS Mlf\jJMUS STUDENT UNION ACADEMIC COMMISSION 
Enthusiastic and creative NO and SMC individuals are urged having sampled our collective fare to 
make application for the '72-'73 Commission at the 
Student Union office (6244) or to call Jim at 1750. 
The Women's Political Caucus of South Bend has called for a "silent gathering of women of all ages" in front of the Athletic and Con­vocation Center at 5:30 tonight.

' r The action is a protest against the refusal of South Ht•nd Tribune Press Club to admit five female
~ 
members of that club to its annual 

r 
banquet. 

~ The five women are dues-paying members of the club, according to Heggie Mereduth a St. Mary's contact for the Caucus. Thl' five reporters have initiated 
a lawsuit though the American Civil Liberties Union but the case will not be decided before the stag affair. 
The Tribunt> Pr«>ss Club has refused admission to .Jean Dur­bach. Doloras Liebler, Eveline Larson. Chris Kagel and Alice Slede. all staff reporters. 
"Politicians and local dignitaries have been invited to the dinner," Ms. Mereduth added, "and many of these people already support equal rights for females." 
liNtllN-MlU~IY Srvi~Rli 

BUYS 


MONTEGO 
The New Personal Size Car With Big Car Ride. 

r-----------------------------­
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except 
J 

vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's 
College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The 
Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 




The LovingCup 

---~ --~--~ -~~ -~---­
~~----------~--­
----] 
Monday, April 24, 1972 the observer 

Demonstrators mob federal bldg. 
free-fire zone. Everyone please leave," or "What are you doing for the innocents'? The innocents are still dying. What are you doing for the innocents ... '?" llesburgh statement  dering $150 billion for devastation of a small country and its people ... Who can speak now of victory? Possibly the devil, but certainly no one else." Early start  The march ended at the plaza facing the Sherland Building on Michigan Avenue. where the South Bend Draft Board is located. While most of the marchers for­med a human chain in the plaza, five went upstairs--the draft of­ , 1 , 
The afternoon protest started as D. Robert Ackerman. Assistant  After Hesburgh's statement and a reading by poet Allan Ginsberg  fices. They were admitted one at a time. on the stipulation that they  ..  
Dean of Students, read a statement  the march to South Bend started  had "Selective Service business."  
issued by Rev. Hesburgh, President  Theodore of the Un­ from La Fortune. It moved along the police-approved route quickly,  There office.  were  no  indicents  at  the  • ~  

versity. In the stat0ment, hastened by intermittent showers. ,
Hesburgh declared that: "The Along Michigan Avenue. the country has had enough victory protesters stopped in front of the '::tl talk from Vietnam." Navy-Marine Corps recruiting ~ Noting the destruction of the station. About forty marchers region. he said that "Everyone has 
~·ntered the station, and brought \. lost: The South Vietnamese with ·out recruiting literature, and their devastated country and carried it to the Federal Building.millions of civilian After leaving the recruitingcasualties ... North Vietnam again station, the march continued to the 
La Fortune receives marks of on-campus protest. 
in devastation and lives ... " Federal Building. The demon­The statement continued: "We 
stration there was limited to the 
Several times during the Mass, in America have lost heavily in first floor of the building. Here, as
by Jim McDermott demonstrators with faces painted lives. resources, in the moral-rot elsewhere, the demonstrators did white walked through the that has infected our coun­not encounter any opposition, 
j

About a hundred demonstrators ballroom. scattering paper air­try ... Most of all, we have put off although some on-lookers were crowded the Post Office lobby on 
planes and wadded newspapers, as urgent domestic problems because unsure that the march would be a lousdpeaker blared: "This is a of lack of money ... while squan­
the first floor of the Federal effective. Builidng in South Bend Friday, protesting the re-escalation of the war in Indochina. 
The leaders of the demonstration had hoped to carry the protest to ,
Assistant Dean Ackerman reads
the FBI offices, which are located 
Hesburgh's statement on the war ~ 
upstairs in the building. They ,
loss. Both America and Vietnam
were blocked by police orders and 
i

were cited as losing in a struggle
a locked stairway gate. however. 
1

which allows for no victory. 
The Post Office protest, marked by chants echoing through the narrow lobby, was the major event C?n the Notre Dame campus, the of Friday's strike. There were stnke was marred by vandalism, seldom large crowds at any of the as a statue and the Student Center strike activities; the biggest were splattered with paint. Most gathering was about 300 students of the paint had been removed at a Mass for Peace offered in the later in the afternoon. Spray paint LaFo;tune Student Center along the side of the Student Center 
Students block Post Office lobby in peace protest. FBI offices were not visited.

ballroom in the morning. remained through the weekend, however.
Ll:._mock convention '72 
Convention notes • • • • • • • • 
WE SUPPORT 
,
nominating and seconding

A rules change to require a two­to the public. Monday night, from the cnc:urrnan 
PRESIDENT NIXON
speeches.

thirds vote to nominate candidates 
Delegation meetings of the delegation.
for president and vice-president 
Petitions for nomination require

highlighted preparations for the 
17 signatures and are available Members of state delegations

Mock Democratic Convention 
from the chairman of the con­who have not met for the

which opens tonight at 7 pm in 
vention of the Rules Committee distribution of credentials should

Stepan Center. 
chairman, Blake Worday. A be at Stepan Center by 6:30 pm

The rules change passed in the 
delegate may sign only one petiton, Monday to get credentials.

Rules Committee, but still must go 
and only even names are allowed All statechairmen who have not

throught the convention floor. 
from any one delegation. distributed all their credentials

Convention organizer, Eric An­
The Credentials committee also should meet with Dave Burch in

drus, commented that there will 
met and approved a challenge by Stepan Center by 6:15pm Monday. 

probably be "a great deal of 
Ken Muth, a Washington state

debate" on that issue. He said that 
delegate. who said that he was not 

no American political party has There will be a very important
informed of a delegation meeting 

used the two-thirds rule since 1936, meeting of the Connecticut
at which the chairman was elec­

when the Democratics abolished it. llt>IPgation at 6:00 pm in the
ted. Chairman Betsy Mohan was 

A minority report will challenge I<'lanner Card Room. All delegates
directed by the committee to hold a

the rule. must come to get their credentials 
reelection.

In another deviation from the for the 1st session of the Con­
At least eight candidates will be

regular rules, the comittee ap­vention, which begins at 7:00pm in
nominated Wednesday. Chisholm,

proved proxy voting, except for Stepan Center.
Humphrey, Jackson. Kennedy,

presidential and vice-presidential 
Muskie, McGovern, Wallace, and

balloting. 
gay lib leader Franklin Kameney 
Ohio [)plegation--will have a

According to Andrus, the Rules 
are represented by campus 
meeting tonight at 6: 15 pm in the

Committee report will probably be 
organizations.

given Monday night. Fiesta Lounge. Delegates will
Tuesday night features the

Other key rules concern receive credentials and attend to
keynote actress of Democratic 
any other business.

demonstrations at the con­
National Chairman Lawrence 0'

vention.w hich are allowed for six 
Brien. Delegates are admitted

minutes after each candidate is Nt>w Ym·k DPIPgation--Members
free. Non delegates are charged

nominated. Fifteen minutes are may pick up their rredentials at
the nominal fee of 25 cents. All 

alloted for each candidate's the door between 6:30 and 7:00
sessions of the convention are open 

International Artists Present Fri. the all-new glittering 
April 28 B:UO pm


Libetace 
A·C·C· 


Show 
ND-SMC Discount on advance sale only 
Ticket Prices 
6.50 no discount 
5.50 purchase for 4.50 
3.00 
Present I D c.ard 
1
,

MANHATTANVILLE COLLEGE 
,

WED, MAY 3 
8:30 in the Ace 

Undergraduate and Graduate Courses for Men and Women 
~ 

Ticket Prices 
THREE SUMMER SESSIONS 
s~.5o 
l

$4.50 Session I: June 12-July 28 (Seven Weeks) $2.75 
Undergraduate session and selected education courses 
Tickets on sale at: Session II: June 26-July 28 (Five Weeks) ACC Workshops orJd courses for graduates and undergraduates 9 5 Session Ill: July 31-August 37 (Five Weeks) Union Ticket Workshops and courses for graduates and undergraduates
office 11:1512:15 ARTS. MUSIC. SCIENCES. HUMANITIES Day and evening courses open to 
4:15 5:15 
degree, non-degree, and qualified high school students. • Teacher certification courses • Interdisciplinary master's program • Moster's in
Dining Hall Sale Tonight 
Teaching program • Air-conditioned classrooms • Residential and rec­
Tickets going last reational facilities • Cultural activities-concerts, ploys, lectures, films. ... some good seats still available For 1972 Summer brochure write: 
Director of Admissions, Manhattanville College I Purchase, New York 10577 I (914) WHite Plains 6-9600 
----~--­
the observer Monday, April 24, 1972 
Circus maximus 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
The showdown in the keystone state 
Ed Ellis

11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
In colonial days, Pennsylvania was called patronage list has also dawn sharp labor leaders to his side. He has cam­getting endorsements from nearly all the the "Keystone State" because of its location criticism, particularly from the con­paigned energetically in the state, and will major Democratic politicians in the state. at the center of the colonial system. It struction industry, where Humphrey is probably pick up most of the black vote in His slate of delegates looks like a Who's Who linked the New England colonies with the prefered, but dollars are being solicited for Philly and Pittsburgh, along with the of state Democrats. Unfortunately, Muskie 
Southern colonies, and thus was essential to Muskie. elderly and labor. ran out of steam and money in Wisconsin, political or military control of America. United Steelworker President I. W. Abel and his Massachusetts organization fell The 1972 election finds Pennsylvania at recently endorsed Humphrey, and this adds Wallace and McGovern apart for lack of both. His managers need the crossroads again. After two years of to Muskie's troubles, especially in between $100,000 and $200,000 for their 
frontrunning Senator Edmund Muskie of Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, where labor is One problem for Humphrey is the delayed campaign, but they have less than a fourth Maine finally meets the test. The former strong. entrance of George Wallace into the race. of that. They need the candidate's time, but leader of the pack faces a pair of primaries Governor Shapp is not likely to help He had not intended to campaign in Penn­he has given them only three days out of the absolutely crucial to his campaign, and the Muskie either. Shapp is a party rebel sylvania, but enthusiastic supporters last two weeks. 
key is in Pennsylvania tomorrow. himself, having defied the organization to convinced him to spend a day or two there. McGovern has a well-run, well-financed Two months ago Muskie would have been 
twice to get the gubernatoria:l nomination. He could draw off some of the Minnesota machine in the state, and his momentum is expected to win in both Pennsylvania and Last summer, Shapp instituted -but only Senator's labor support. starting to tell. He should win big. Massachusetts, Tuesday's other primary. after a bitter legislative battle --the state's McGovern is not entered on a state-wide 
The Massachusetts Ballot
first income tax law, whieh was later basis, but he is fielding slates of delegates in
Today, he is the underdog in both places and 
is losing ground raidly. declared unconstitutional. He then passed a selected districts. One difficulty that has plagued campaigns Pennsylvania will probably be remem-· second. legal law. Today, he probably in Massachusetts is the ballot, believed to be 
Prediction in Pennsylvania
bered along with Florida and Wisconsin as couldn't win an election for Recorder of the most complicated in the nation. one of 1972's "key" primaries. Muskie is Deeds in Philadelphia county. His en­We can expect Humphrey to win Statewide, there are over 20,000 candidates lined up for a duel with Senator Hubert dorsement is worth somewhat less to statewide and probably pick up a majority for various offices. There are twelve 
Muskie than that of Louis XVI during the presidential preference candidates, two
Humphrey of Minnesota. There will be of the 137 delegates up for grabs. Muskie limited interference from Governor George Reign of Terror. will win a few delegates, and some of slates of 20 at-large convention delegates, Wallace of Alabama, and Senator George Philadelphia McGovern's delegates are bound to get in. three slates of 6 or 7 candidates as pledged McGovern of South Dakota, bU£ Lhe results Wallace has few if any delegates running in district delegates, plus local elections.
Another problem Muskie has is the city of 

should reflect pretty clearly the choice the districts, so he must look for a good The confusion may result in the election of 
Philadelphia. The Democratic City

among centrist Democrats. If Muskie loses, score in the popularity poll. Muskie delegates--despite his poor showing 
Chairman, Peter Camiel, has !been a Muskie

he is through. He recognizes this fact, and Humphrey, in short, will be the big winner. in the popularity poll -because his 
man since early in the year. However,

has committed the major portion of his Muskie's campaign will expire with all delegates are better-known throughout the
newly elected Mayor Frank Rizzo has said

resources to the state. but the situation is deliberate speed, and the center of the party state. 
that no matter who the Democrats

still deterior:J ting. be pretty well consolidated --behind Conclusion
nominate, he will support President Nixon

Muskie in Trouble Humphrey.
in the fall. This means thart much of the A pair of losses tomorrow will certainly 

In Pittsburgh a few weeks ago, ethnic vote in Philadelphia is up in the air, Massachusetts qualify the Muskie campaign for decent Democratic Governor Milton Shapp threw a and since labor is backing Humphrey, much 
burial. His financial condition will probably big "gala evening" to raise money for of that will go to him. What doesn't will go to We might here make a note on 
be damaged beyond repair. He will have Muskie, and although all the tickets for the Wallace, since Rizzo votes are often Wallace Massachusetts. Even Muskie is ready to allowed the greater part of over 00 delegates event were sold (mostly through the use of votes. concede the popular vote to McGovern. to slip through his fingers in one day, and his 
gubernatorial patronage) the turnout for the Humphrey, on the other hand, looks Some experts feel he may run third, behind momentum, halted in Wisconsin, will begin
actual politicking was described as strong. He has tried to make the most of Humphrey, who has not participated at all traveling the long road to in­"disappointing." dissatisfaction with Sh?PP by running an in the state. 
consequentiality.Shapp's use of the 60,000 person state machine campaign, and has drawn most Muskie started early in Massachusetts, 
.. Berrigan named 1972 Senior Class Fellow 
federal prison after being indicted campus have not yet been planned. comparable number of 
fo:r pouring blood on draft records Andrus speculated that he will nominations for the honorary post, 
in Catonsville, Maryland. He has probably attend some classes, and but that he could not be placed on 
agreed to come and receive the meet with seniors in several in­the ballot because of his inability to 
award. arriving in South Bend on formal get-togethers. Andrus come to campus to accept the 
Sunday night, May 7. The commented that the schedule will award. Both are recent Nobel 
presentation will be made Monday be kept informal and above all Peace prize nominees. 
night in Stepan Center at the usual flexible since health reasons were This year's election marks the 
ceremony. a prime factor in his being paroled first time that St. Mary's seniors 
Eric Andrus. chairman of the Andrus added that Berrigan's have been extended voting senior fellows committee, said that brother Phillip had received a privileges. 

he "wasn't surprised by the results." and expressed r satisfaction about the significance of the number of voters. This 
~ 
year's turnout was a 30 percent

r 
increase over last year, when less r than 25 percent of the class voted. 
r 
Andrus quoted. Berrigan as 

r 
saying that he was "looking for­

r 
ward to visiting the campus."r by Maria Gallagher Approximately 53 percent of the A·ccording to Andrus, Berrigan is a 
r
, 
St. Mary's Editor senior class cast ballots which close friend of William J. Kunsler, 
tallied as follows: Berrigan, 57 last year's senior fellow, and 

Daniel Berrigan, pacifist priest percent: Charles Evers, 23 per­c~:pecially anticipates his trip after 
and Catonsville 9 member, was cent: and Fr. Ernest Bartell, 18 Kunsler's enthusiastic reporting of 
voted senior class fellow in last percent. 
his experiences here. week's election. Berrigan is on parole from Berrigan's activities-here on 
Buffalo Five face loss of pri1ne witnesses 
office. and intent to commit other."

by Cliff Wintrode burglary after their arrest inside a "His strength and beauty, hisSpt•rial to th«> Obs«>rv«>r 
, Buffalo Federal building last Aug. total committment ot resistance,
Buffalo, N.Y.--The Buffalo 21. of non-violence and the power of r sometime today will begin their Curtin said the defense had truth had a profound effect on me. 
r courtroom presentation damaged 
failed to show why Curtis Tarr, It was with Jim and because of Jim ,r by the probable loss of all their recently retired selective service that I first engaged in acts of civil
desired witnesses. as their trial director. Don Luce, journalist that d:.sobedience ... " r resumes here in federal court. 
exposed the "Tiger cages" in a Douglass is under indictment inl<'ederal Judge John Curtin, South Vietnamese prison, and Hawaii for pouring blood on theFriday denied "without prejudice" 

~ Douglass were essential to the electronic warfare files at an air 
a request from the Buffalo that he defense. or why they would not force base there. and would need aissue subpoenas for three wit­l'ome without subpoenas, or why subpoena to leave his federal court nesses, including Jim Douglass, they could not pay their own way. district.
who was a co-founder of the non­Darst, a former ND student, said Jim Martin said that his at­violence program at Notre Dame. 
in the written request that tPmpted citizen's arrest of TarrThe without prejudice clause Douglass "influenced and changed (continued on pg. 8)allows the request to be resub­

my life at a crucial time as did no 
JIM HiBSCHMAN
SiiiDie


IIJSiness 
PONTIAC 



IS coJming 
--------·--·­
---~--·--------­

WE'RE MOVING JUNE 1st COMMUNITY NEWSTAND 
to 113 W. Monroe St. South Bend, 1--d. 
~)\//PASS!!VGER TIRES 
U/13u~ FOR I" ,r .~..,,f.RICAN SPORTS
•. ·.j) CARS 
\__;/ Radial Ply -Bias Ply 
Singer· General Tire 312 N. Lafayette Blvd. South Bend, Indiana 
Phone 233-9411 
Candidates for class officers can pick up petitions 
from 8:00 am till 5:00pm today and tomorrow in the Student Government office. 
-·------------------------1 
mitted. whihc Vincent Doyle, co­counsel for the Buffalo, will do today. 
Last week. Curtin denied without prejudice a defense request for subpoenas for 21 persons, among which were President Nixon, Henry Kissinger and the heads of local corporations holding defense contracts. 
Maureen Considine, Chuck Darst, Jeremiah Horrigan, Jim Margin and Ann Masters are on trial charged with conspiracy, theft of government records from the Buffalo military intelligence 
a story •I like 

gene molinelli 
Marvin was not my roomate. Marvin Marvin was really pretty smart but he beat him of course something about Marvin brightenmg It --but that was enough for wore old white shirts that hung sloppily out just wasn't very practical. He was a physics just couldn't win, but he'd always give you a Marvin. of his cuffed pants, a brown hat that sat major, as I was, but he didn't work as hard run for the money. He was the perfect lk began attending class less and less 
floppily on browner hair, argyle socks and opponent. And he didn't get mad when he often. I asked him why once.
at it as I had to do. I could understand why penny loafers. He wore the same old he was a physics major all right, it fitted his kept losing; in fact, he never lost his tem­"I've learned everything this place can 
teach me. There are other things to be done 
raincoat every day was always unshaven, idealism so well; what I couldn't understand pera tall that I can remember. I suppose it often unshowered 'and 'probably had bad was how he was getting by. I mean, he just was things like that which gave me the that I should do." 
breath, though no one ever got close enough didn't care enough about some things to impression I had of him --the impression "What about a profession," I asked, to be sure. apply himself. that Marvin was the only one I knew who concerned for his welfare. He was often made fun of but was never was really capable of love. "Don't be silly," he said, simply. scorned. He was. very simply,alone. He The last time I saw Marvin was five weeks 
I remember one time before an elec­ago. Marvin came to my room very happyhad no close friends tronics test. I had been studying for a that dav.

couple of hours in the library and needed a He was often made fun of but was never break. so I bundled up and stepped out into So. though it was surprising, I should have scorned. He was, very simply, alone. He the icy still night for a walk and a think. I expected his becoming involved with "I'm -leaving," he grinned. 
had no close friends of which I knew; I was often went to the grotto at times like that Angela. Still, the thought of Marvin with a "Where you all going?" I asked.
probably the nearest thing he had to a friend just to see what was going on. I don't really girl formed a picture too incongruous to He shrugged his shoulders, still grinning,and I saw him infrequently at best. It was believe in God or anything like that, but believe. It was downright funnv. Marvin then chuckling . . . looking at me with ajust too hard to take very much of Marvin. there is something serene and unchanging did not change externally, it just became knowing sparkle in his eyes. He started me 
· I mean, ... well, he was a real nice guy. about the candle-lit grotto that soaks up all obvious to me that he was very much going; just looking at him and that stupid­
He really appreciated the slightest bit 'of the tension brought by changes that buffet happier. wise smirk on hid face, like he justattention; he always smiled when you said ever so quickly now. So there I was, I don't know how many weeks it lasted, destroyed some terrible, hated enemy by
hello to him and all, but just wasn't aware listening to the quiet of the early semester but. as these things so often do, it came to an accident. He was laughing harder now,that a four hour monologue was more than grind. Then I noticed a dark shape among 
end. I didn't see Marvin for a couple of days holding his stomach and wiping the water most people could stand. . the candles arid heard the rustle of pen on after that. When I did, I asked him why he from his eyes. I was with him now in that
He certainly gave these monowgues of his paper. Marvin was writing (either poetry or hadn't been to classes. He said he had been ridiculous relief that was somehow so funny.
often enough. All he required was a grunt or equations, it didn't matter, both were art to thinking. He didn't look any different, but He kept his eyes on me spraying his cackles 
a groan of approval every forth minutes or Marvin). 
something different was about him. He was about the room machinegun style. Then he so. No matter how long you waited for him not depressed, rather, he seemed agitated. was on the floor, curled up, eyes contortedto finish. he never came to the end of I waved my arms but he didn't see me, I Hight after that Marvin began falling in shut in laughter, rolling from left to right.
anything he was saying though he changed started to call but decided not to disturb love daily. It was an unselfish love, he His laughter filled me and I echoed it and wesubjects often enough. The funny thing him. Unnoticed, I walked away, back to the never asked that it be returned --since sent it throughout theroom till it poured outabout it was that everything he said was world of transistors, amplifiers and Angela he never even hinted at it. He gave the door and windows. We forced it through really very interesting. But, gosh, you had equivalent circuits. it anonymously, in a thousand little ways. the ceiling, pushed it up and out of the dorm, to break awav sometime. 
He would surprise you every once in a By compliments or attentiveness or help loaded the wind with it until, resounding in Once, I was in love with a girl and she was while. Take handball for instance; you'd when it was needed, he always delivered his our ears, it passed around and above and up in the room watching Ben Hur with me look at him and underestimate him, then special love. It grew from that time so that beyond the golden dome.
when Marvin turned up to ask me about a he'd come right out and start beating you he gave it indiscriminately. He saw now Goodbye, Marvin. Goodluck. You'll bephysics problem assignment. She watched eight to two so tht you'd have to hustle some that he was capable of brightening glad to know I fell in love three times todaythe movie and I listened to him for three just to get back in the game. You'd always someone's life --not fulfilling it, just and I have some things to think about.
hours. 


democratic mock convention 
who two months later performed the same

Now the classroom is Stepan Center. The Fourth Session: : Wednesday, April 26, 1972.
duty at the Democratic National Con-Address by Eric A. Andrus

attendance at this seminar is large--more 2:30PM 
vention.

than 1000 students will participate. This is a In 1964 the convention was Republican Call of Convention
Mock Convention, "a course in practical Call to Order by the Chairman 
and was held in the recently completedpolitics," says Government Professor Paul Stepan Center. The series of events was Roll of Convention

C. Bartholm:new, the convention's founder. Nominating and Seconding Speeches 
highlighted by an address by Congressman The convention is a Democratic one because William E. Miller of New York (a Notre Repo~t of the Committee onof the open nature of the race for the Dame graduate who was destined to be Credentials Democratic Presidential nomination which chosen Barry Goldwater's running mate by Balloting for Presidential Candidates (ifwill culminate in July. During the next four the Republican National Convention). It Announcements time allows)days, there will be many speeches and took seven hotly contested ballots for thedemonstrations. and behind the scenes, convention delegates to decide on Henry Adjournment Announcementscampaign managers will engage in ~he Cabot Lodge as the Presidential nominee:political maneuvering necessar~ to br!ng 

reasonable choice in light of the Republican Adjournment until 7:00 PM.
forth a winner. It should be an mterestmg disaster in the ensuing election.
class. 
The Republican Mock Convention of 1968 saw a record eleven ballots and suspension of the two-thirds majority rule before Oregon Senator Mark Hatfield was nominated in what was generallyconsidered SPcond Session: Tuesday' April 25, 1972. 
2:45PM

a Vietnam protest vote. Fifth Session: Wednesday, April 26, 1972. 
This year's Mock Democratic Convention 2:30PM 
Mock Convention History  will feature Democratic National Chair­man. and an address by former Congressman Allard K. Lowenstein, prime  Convention Called To Order By Eric A. Andrus, Chairman, Mock Democratic Committee  Call to Order by the Chairman  
The Mock Convention was first presented in the Engineering Auditorium in 1940. The convention itself was a feature of the classes in American Government in the Depart­ment of Political Science, so participation in the event was limited to Government and Political Science majors. At that time the burning issue was the matter of a third te_rm for Franklin D. Roosevelt, as the first convention was a Democratic one. In 1944, when World War II had taken most of the students from the campus and  instigator of the 1968 "Dump Johnson" movement. and now the chairman of the Americans for Democratic Action. In light of recent events in Southeast Asia, the Vietnam War is certain to be a major issue as it was in 1968. But other issues will also receive wide attention-women's rights, welfare. and tax reform among them. With 25,000,000 voters going to the polls for the first time. a significant amount of national attention will be focused upon the outcome of these proceedings.  Election of Convention Chairman Election of Other Convention Officers Report of the Committee on Rules Announcements Adjournment until 7:00PM.  Address by the Honorable Allard K. Lowenstein, Chairman, Americans for Democratic Action Balloting for Presidential Candidates Announcements Adjournment  
left  Navy personnnel  in  their  stead,  the  
convention was not held.  
In  1948  a  Republican  convention  was  
scheduled and participation was made available to the entire student body. Meeting in the old Navy Drill Hall, delegates chose Senator Vandenburg in­stead of Governor Dewey, the eventual  First Session: PM  Monday, April 24, 1972.  7:00  Third Session: Tuesday, April25, 1972. 1':\1 Call to Order by the Chairman  7:00  Sixth Session: : Thursday, April 27, 1972. 7:00PM Call to Order by the Charirman  
Republican nominee. . . Saint Mary's women were mvited to participate for the first time in the Mock Democratic Convention in 1952. The  Convention Called To Order By Eric A. Andrus, Chairman, Mock Democratic National Committee  Keynote Address by the Honorable Lawrence F. O'Brien. Chairman, Democratic National Committee  Nominating and Seconding Speeches for Vice-President  
assembly was visited by several nationally­known figures including Paul Harvey and Richard Daley. Adlai Stevenson was the choice of the delegates that year, as he was in 1956.  The National Anthem Invocation by the Rev. Madden  Denis  J.  Presentation of the Party Platform Announcements  Balloting for Vice-Presidential Candidates Acceptance Speech by Presidential Candidate or a Representative thereof  
John F. Kennedy was nominated by the 1960 Mock Convention which featured the keynote address bv Senator Frank Church,  Greeting from Hesburgh. C.S.C.  Rev.  Theodore  M.  Adjournment  Final Adjournment  

L------~--------------------~-~-~----­
·' 


.. 
the observer ~Y~onday, April 24, 1972
6 




Large refrigerutors to be banned 
by Bob Cosentino 
If the Notre Dame ad­ministration gets its way --and it usually does --all refrigerators over 4.6 cubic feet will be banned from the dorms next year. That means that hundreds of old salvation army ice boxes currently used by students in the dorms will be obsolete. 
Obviously, many owners of the old 'fridges who have become attached to their machines are quite disturbed about having to throw their boxes out. What will happen to these old refrigerators is still unsolved. Suggestions by indignant students range from burial in St. Mary's Lake to depositing them on Father
• Chambers' doorstep. ft'ather Thomas Chambers, director of student residence, has indicated that all large refrigerators will be banned next year because of the fire hazard they produce within the dorms. Also. the university's insurance company reportedly insists that all old refrigerators be removed from the rooms. 
"We have no choice in the matter,·' remarked Brother Kieran Hyan, vice-president of 
(continued from pg. 1) 
From a helicopter yesterday, Anloc and the small rubber plantation towns to the east, west and north. had seemed to have suffered devastation from North Vietnamese artillery attacks and American bombing. Broad swathes cut through the tightly packed green rubber trees showed where B-52's had dropped their long rows of bombs only a mile from Anloc. The northern half of the circle-shaped town appeared to have been completely flattened by the continual bombardment. 
Helicopter pilots described the 
antiaircraft fire from the areas 
around the town as the most in­
tense they had ever seen so close to 
Saigon. It has taken its toll of 
American and South Vietnamese 
planes, which swarmed over Anloc 
yesterday. Army helicopter 
gunships, Air Force C-130 tran­
sports dropping supplies by 
parachute, Air Force and Navy 
Phantom jets and propeller driven 
South Vietnamese Air Force 
skyraiders participated. Without 
the massive air support, American 
officers in the field say, Anloc 
would have fallen days ago. 
'I nus. at the moment, there is 
cause for both optimistic and 
pessimistic judgments of the 
course of the offensive. The South 
Vietnamese have stOPJ:e~eir business affairs. "The old klunkers are a serious problem and they have to go." 
Nevertheless, many students still like the idea of throwing out their old refrigerators. John Gezich, a junior in the Zephyrs section of Keenan Hall, retorts, "A lot of students have invested much money into their old ice boxes Besides the initial 40 dollar cost of the refrigerator, it also costs 30 dollars a year in fines just to keep it." 
Gezich's roommate sophomore Charles Grimm purchased his box at the salvation army last Sep­tember. "Charlie expected the refrigerator to last him his remaining three years at Notre Dame. That's why he bought it in the first place. Now the ~.chool says he has to throw it away after only one year of use. Who could he possibly sell it to?" 
Other students have questioned Father Chambers' and Brother Hyan's reasons for banning the old refrigerators. The adminstration claims the 'fridges are a fire hazard as well as a health hazard. "Often the wiring and insulation in the really old ones are faulty,"'' said Brother Ryan. '"Sometimes the food in them is not proplerly refrigerated. They also bring cockroaches into the rooms." 
Brother Hyan did mention, however, that there has been no fires reported in the past caused by faulty refrigerators. And out of the eight owners of old refrigerators on second floor Keenan, no one has reported any operational problems with the machines. Les Rud­nyanszky, the R.A. of that floor, bought his big ice box 2 and 1" years ago from another student. He says it works as good as new. 
"I don't really think the ad­ministration is justified in banning old refrigerators," ,"commented Runyanszky. "The refrigerators can't take up much more power than color TV's. And we have about four color TV's on the floor." 
He also noted that cockroaches will be attracted to the rooms as long as students keep food in their rooms, whether it be in a small, new refrigerator or a large, old one. 
Hudnyanszky also pointed out that the new 4.6 cubic feet limit on refrigerators happens to be the size of the boxes sold by various organizations around campus, including the bookstore. 
"I think they should let the student who already have big 

Vietnamese ofiE!nsive 
Pnemies on each major front, 
The North Vietnamese are
keeping them from taking control 
determined not to stop attacking,
of either Quangtri or Binhlong 
intelligence officials believe, until
Provinces or getting into Hue, but 
they have clearly succeeded on at
whether they can continue to stop 
least one of the fronts.
them is the big question. 
.Anyone interested in the positions of Mardi Gras Chairman or Raffle Ticket Chairman, please contact Joe Prochaska 
in the Social Commission office or call 77 57. 

willi4:.m toohey. c.s.c 
directc>r of campus ministry
•



paHIOn 
......, the. 


p01.1ible 
father toohey again reaches us "where we're at," probing key issw3s of modern life, responding to man's most pivotal questions, testifying that jesus is the answer to our quest for meaning. 
publish·ed by ave maria press copies available at: THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE notre dame, indiana 46556 

refrigerators keep them, but just not let any more students buy mem, "suggested sophomore Dave Grimmer, who bought a used box this year. "The ad­ministration seems to be forcing students to buy small ones. And 
· since there aren't too many used small ones around, they'll have to buy a new refrigerator costing over 100 dollars." 
The administration has made no final decision on bans or fines, although an announcement is expected soon. Some hall presidents are discussmg vanous possibilities to be presented to Father Chambers, who will make the final decision. 

Brother Ryan previously in­dicated that the fines for next year will probably be the same as this year. However, Carmen Maciariello, president of Fisher Hall, said there may be a minimum increase of fines for next year to help pay for the extensive rewiring of the halls. 
FRANKIE'S 
EVERYDAY DINNER 
SPECIAlS -Ocean Perch $1.25 1 0 oz. Rib-Eye Steak $1.50 -1/2 Broasted Chicken $1.50 lneludes Tureen Soup, Salad, Bread, Butter and Coffee Planning a Party? Frankie's has Special Rates for Student Parti.e~! 
uthe lighter that's m the stuff that goe e helmets that belo the men that got 

$2.95g 
i 
I ' 



It's taken two years to develop a refillable butane lighter this good. The Vu-tane is safe at any altitude. The three big fuel compartments help make it unbreakable ...without making it heavy or bulky. It still weighs only one ounce. And fits, almost invisibly, into your pocket. And comfort­ably, into your palm. Five flying translucent colors, so you can see the "works:· 


!!!:!'!!!'fs~ 
Notre Dame 
Bookstore 
,.. 
-----~--------­

..:.:M:..::o:.:.:-"="':..-'c:-·....:A~P~'-.::il-'2-:..:.4-.~.:..:l-9..:...7_2__-~~~~~--~-t~h~_e-_-_-o~b~s~_:_r~v~e~_r_-____ 
r------· 
7-----l 


Miami rocks Irl•ch t\\i.ce 12-2, 12-3 l
O.A.I. 

by Stan Urankar the first inning and Irish second plate collision with Wright. Both It was just ten days ago that Ohio sacker Ken Rump staked Riddell are questionable starters but 
University coach Bob Wren to a 2-0 lead with a wind-aided might be ready for limited duty. warned Notre Dame boss Jake home run, scoring Dick Nussbaum The Irish, now 7-9 on the year,Kline about Miami of Ohio. ahead of him. 
being a busy week of action this "They're the strongest threat From there on, however, Red­
afternoon, meeting the U. of we've had for the Mid-American skin ace lefty Gary Wright was in Detroit in the Motor City. Coach Conference title in years," Wren control. The sophomore south­Kline's club will journey to East commented. Following the paw's bases-loaded single, coupled Lansing tomorrow for a Redskins' performance at Cartier with another safety from left rloubleheader with Michigan State Field Saturday afternoon, most of fielder Gene Ziegler, put Miami on before heading south for ·twin bills the Irish will readily agree. top to stay in the second inning. with Butler and Xavier and a Coach Bud Middaugh's Oxford Wright then concentrated on his single game with Cincinnati at the 
Indians raised their team batting mound duties and fanned 11 Irish end of the week. 
average to .319 while sweeping a batters in five innings, while chilly doubleheader by nearly limiting ND to only one more hit, Thinclads winidentical 12-2 and 12-3 scores. The Ken Schuster's leadoff single in the 
triumphs extended a nine game fifth. Miami winning steak and the Miami added five more tallies three titles 
closing victory was the 100th of off loser Riddell (1-2), before Middaugh's five-year tenure. senior Art Combs came on in the 

in Ohio Relays 
"Ohio can hit the long ball on sixth. Pinch hitter Bro Johnson, you, but Miami has much better the Mid-Am's leading hitter with a Notre Dame's track team.led by
pitching," Irish hurler Mike .514 mark, greeted the senior junior star Tom McMannon,Riddell noted. "Miami is also righthander with a home run over captured three first places in the
the basepaths, Combs was Irish and stanza, Hasback relinquished only 
much quicker on the center field fence. Four errors five Ohio Relays held Saturday on the
and their coach has a lot on the touched for two more runs before Redskin hits produced six a leadoff homer to left fielder Ohio State campus in Columbus.
ball." retiring the side, while sophomore unearned Miami tallies that were Howard Wood in the last of the fifth " 
Captain Joe LaRocca concurred Mark O'Connell was nicked for the Eich's undoing. Center fielder Art before retiring to the sidelines with McMannon, the NCAA indoor with Riddell's assumptions. final Redskin tally in the seventh. Grzeskowiak's sixth homer of the 11 more whiffs to his credit. high hurdle champion, won his "Miami has a lot of good line-drive Lefty Rick Eich got the call for season was the big blow, and by the ND managed to pick up another specialty with a time of 13.7 hitters, and their pitching is really game two, and pitched better than time the smoke cleared, Miami single tally in the last inning on seconds and added another blue tough. If I had to pick between the final score might indicate. was in control again, 8-2. Wood's walk, singles by Mark Sch­ribbon by anchoring the victorious them, I think I'd take Miami." Singles by Ziegler, Gary Cooper, The outburst gave Redskin mitz and pinch hitter Gary Trick, Irish shuttle hurdle relay team. 
Rain washed out Friday's and Dennis Smith combined with a hurler Dave Hasback some and an infield out, while Miami Other members of the relay scheduled game with the Redskins delayed double steal play brought breathing room. The "weak" link capped their scoring with four runs quartet were Pat Mullaley, Jack but. unfortunately for the Irish, the home two runs in the first. of the Redskins' three super pit­off reliever Bill Lucas, including a Gerwe and Mike McMannon, weather didn't interfere with Rump countered with his second chers <Wright and senior lefty sailing circuit clout by third Tom's brother. Saturday's contests. round-tripper of the day, a fourth Buddy Schultz are the other two), baseman Bucky Merritt. 
Senior Elio Polselli recorded
At the outset, it looked like the inning shot that went sailing over Hasback had "only" a 1.87 ERA also hampered
The Irish were Notre Dame's other triumph,
Notre Dame might pull off an the right center field fence, to and an 11.9 strikeout pergame this weekend by the loss of third whipping his competitors in theupset as starter Riddell retired the narrow the margin to 2-1 before the ratio entering the contest. baseman Rob Reschan end catcher discus event with a toss of 165'7".
side without mishap in the top of roof caved in the top of the fifth. Following the productive fifth Bob Roemer. Reschan saw only Frosh weightman Greg Cortinatwo innings of action in the first almost added to the Irish victorygame because of a sprained thumb list, but had to settle for secondsuffered Friday. Roeq~.er, who had

Football returns to ND Stadium 
place in the shot put. 
caught every inning of every game this year, suffered a mild knee No team records were kept in the by Vic Dorr 
sprain in a second inning home meet. Ara Parseghian led the Fighting Irish football team through its first 
Golfers fourth at Michigan
Stadium scrimmage of the Spring season Saturday, but the change in Freshmen Jeff Burda and Mike recorded rounds of 77-82, 159, and scenery--along with the cold, windy Kistner fired two round totals of captain Mike LaFrance posted a weather--apparently did little to 153 and 155, respectively, to lead 160 total with rounds of 82 and 78. inspire the Irish gridders. Notre Dame's golf team to a fourth The Irish golfers, coached by Fr. 
ND's number one offense tallied place finish in a field of ten schools Clarence Durbin, will be in action the first two times it had the ball, competing in the University of again today, competing in the but then, hindered by penalties, Michigan's Invitational Tour­Mid-American Conference In­
turnovers, and injuries, went nament Saturday in Ann Arbor. vitational Tournament at Miami 
scoreless for nearly 60 minutes The host Wolverines captured <0. l U. in Oxford. until fullback Andy Huff sliced first place in the event, carding a over from the five midway through team total of 758, seven strokes 

ND-USC game 
the fifth period of play. better than runner-up Ohio State. 
The first-line defense, mean­Michigan State's "B" team while, was scored upon for the first finished third with a 766 score, rescheduled time this Spring. The number two followed by the Irish (777), Purdue Sports Information Director blues cashed in early in the <778), Ohio State's "B" team (781), Roger Valdiserri announced scrimmage on a 35-yard field goal Michigan State's varsity (785), Saturday that this coming season's by Bob Thomas, and then fresh­Purdue's "B" team (787), Western grid meeting between Notre.Dame man AI Samuels stunned the first Michigan (789) and Michigan's and Southern California has been "D" with an 80-yard touchdown "B" team (811). rescheduled. sprint just before the end of the Burda fired rounds of 75 and 78 The game, originally slated for workout. while Kistner shot an 81 and a 74 to November 25 (at Los Angeles), will 
Halfback Eric Penick, seeing pace the Irish. Gary Quinn still be played at L.A. but has been action for the first time this Spring, finished right behind Kistner with postponed a week until December opened the scrimmage in the Morrin's of a fumbled a 79-77, 156 total. Marty Best 2.
before being stopped. Two plays recoverysecond offense backfield, and he 
later, Huff spun through the right punt. Steenberge and Nyrop ran got things off to a quick start by 

Crew faces only home race
side of the line for the score. their team to the gold eight.
ripping off a 21-yard gain <against 
Thomas' coversion try was again Nyrop. going to the air, tried to hitthe first defense l on the first play good. Rob Washington in the end zone,of the afternoon. But the defense but defensive back Reggie BarnettHuff's first TD came at 13:49 ofended that early threat by intercepted the pass
the first period, and until he scored at the goalrecovering AI Samuels' fumble on line and carried the return 60 yardsagain at 10:05 of the fifth period the the 40. 
before being stopped. 

first offense was shut out.
Cliff Brown opened at the helm Both offenses reawakened late in of the first offense. and he im­But there was till plenty in store the fifth period. Dewan, Huff, and 
mediately began to move this team for the number one blues. Tight Greg Hill put the first "0" inthrough the air. Tight end Mike end Mike Creaney was submarined scoring position on the gold five.

Creaney, just returning from a while leaping for a Cliff Brown Huff got the touchdown from there, knee strain, ignored heavy pass midway through the second and Dewan scored on the con­coverage and hauled in an aerial at period and reaggravated an injury version try.
the 17-yard line of the golds. of his left foot. He had to be helped :\otrP DamP's lightweight crew practices in preparation for today's only But the number two offenseDarryll Dewan squirmed to the 15, from the field on a golf cart. Later honw mPPt of the year. 
came right back with a TD of their 

and Brown drove the first offense in the same drive, offensive guard to the 10 before a holding penalty Frank Pomarico was also was also On the first play following Notre Dame's crew club will which took place on a choppy Lake ~
own. moved the ball back to the 25. injured. and he, too, had to be Huff's score, halfback AI Samuels hold its only home meet of the Springfield. The rough weather, But on the first play following the carted off the field. took a pitchout on his own 20, season this afternoon when they which played havoc with the races, penalty, Brown hit Willie Town­made an outside break, and outran entertain the University of Min­swamped two boats and slowed up 
Pomarico suffered a mild sprain 
both his blockers and defensive the others.
send on a screen pass to the right nesota and Washburn University of
of his right ankle. On the defensive 
l

side. and the junior receiver back Mike Townsend to the end Topeka, Kansas. Race time is 3 Once again, the freshmen turned 
side, end George Hayduk and 
The play covered 80 yards, a in the the
followed his blockers into the end zone. o'clock, and spectator bus will best performance for
linebacker Sherm Smith also 
zone for the first score of the day. and Nyrop hit receiver Bob leave from the Circle at 2:45 to Irish, placing third behind Kansas
suffered ankle injuries.
Thomas' PAT was good, and the Washington in the end zone for the take fans to the race site on the St. State and Purdue. The varsity
The second offense reached the
first team had a 7-0 lead at the 8:47 final two points of the day. Joseph River. lightweights took fourth place with 
mark of the first period. scoreboard late in the third period. Head Coach Ara Parseghian. not a time of 6:13, eighteen seconds With Pat Steenberge and Bill The Irish. in an earlier encounter 
completely pleased with the play of behind the winning Minnesota.
They made it 14-0 soon after. 
Nyrop alternating at qb, the with Minnesota, won one race of
Taking over on their own 42 either the offense or the defense, Illness forced captain Phil following a Brian Doherty punt, number two blues drove to the IS­said: 'One has been building the three. The freshmen scored a Godfrey out of the heavyweight Brown and alternate qb Tom yard line of the first defense, and other. It would be easy to say that victory over the Gophers, while the race, and forced a reshuffle in the Clements got the first-line blues Bob Thomas snapped the first the improvement of the defense light and heavy varsity squads boat. The Irish managed to finish • 
rolling again. Clements gunned a "D's" scoreless streak with a 35-was due to the inefficiency of the both lost close races. fifth in 5:51, forty seconds in back yard field goal. offense. but I don't think that has Over the weekend, the oarsmen of Kansas. Phil will be back in thestrike to Townsend at the 38-yard 
line of the golds, and then, from the The number two blues had been the case. I'd just say the competed against eight other stroke seat today, however, and 
26, Andy Huff took a handoff from another scoring chance early in the defense showed improvement schools in the Springfield (Ill.) Notre Dame has a chance of Brown and stormed to the five fourth period. Following Dan today." Invitational Rowing Regatta, scoring a sweep of the meet. 


Monday, April 24, 1972

the observer
8 
Ginsberg protests the war 

by Carol Weiss The Sophomore Literary I<'estival closed out its 1972 season I<'riday with poet Allen Ginsberg at Washington Hall at 8:30. Ginsberg read and chanted before a capacity audience for three hours ac­companied by peace protesters, audience, guitar, flute, and banjo. The poet framed his appearance 
' fcontinued from pg. 4) 
last summer showed him the "unwillingness and inability of high public officials to recognize their responsibliity and complicity in the crimes of the Government." 
This "singular event" had such a great influence on him, said Martin, that he considers Tarr's testimony to be essential. 
Martin added that Tarr, instead of a local employee of Selective Service, was needed because Tarr "cannot pass on responsibility for his office to someone else." 
Luce was asked as an "eye witness to war crimes" and able to testify to the "criminality" of army intelligence ,activities in Vietnam. 
Luce is qualified, said the defense, to give the history of the war from a Vietnamese viewpoint. He lived in Vietnam from 1954 to 1967. 
"He knows what the war has meant to Vietnam as no other 
sta 
night editor -jim roe 
assistant editor -carol weiss 
day editor -tom bornholdt 
typists -gras, niederkorn, smith, 
brady, hampe, conway, anastasoff 

:5~ij molhel' ~ 2:Ja'J 
If you make a contribution 
in your mother's name, CARE 
will send assistance to a needy mother and her children 
overseas. CARE provides a special Mother's Day card which will be mailed directly to your mother or to you, as 
you request. Minimum do­nation -$2 per name. Send your Mother's name and ad­
dress with your check to: 
CARE-Mother's Day 
110 S. State St. Chicago. IL 60604 

as a personal peace protest beside an 8-foot wooden cross marked 'Roman Catholic Church.' Gin­sberg dedicated his mantras (chants) to working out the "demonic energies" and "hLtngry ghosts" at Notre Dame espedally at this time of crisis. He made note of the "little concerted action here on the campus at this time of suffering," pointing to the special challenge of Notre Dame as a Catholic center.· 
Pumping a harmonium, the poet began a mantra series on 3 variations with the words projected on the backdrop above him. Ginsberg termed the first, from the Buddhist Book of Death, a "suitable proclamation of flower power." The Indian words flowed through OM <bodyl-AH (speechl­GURU <leader-hope) as Ginsberg instructed the audience to straighten their spine, relax their belly, and breath a sighful OHM, comparable "to the great familiar 




Buffalo Five on Tricll 
said 
sigh given after orgasm." Gin­sberg's resonant bass lead the rise and fall of the humming cadence 
as  incense  burned.  A  cross­ 
breathed  bell  ringing  ended  the  
song.  

Recognizable language was offered to the audience for the first time with Blake's western gnostic mantra on "Spring." "Merrily, merrily we welcome in the year" was the phrase dedicated to the peace action group who brought the confrontation with suffering and the crucifixion back to cam­pus. It was a heralding of "the springtime of their suffering." Ginsberg improvised new words to the contagious melody and the audience joined in to clap, laugh, sway, and chant "go and end the war-caste out the devil from the door." 
In another Hindu mantra Gin­sberg bowed before "the name of Shiva. the cross of change." He then took up the rhythm for some of his own poetry and proposed through the mantra medium "ascetism in our life or con­spicuous consumption." His economic mantra echoed "Don't smoke, don't smoke, don't smoke ... 
American that we know of," It's a 9 million dollar capitalisticthe five defendents. Doyle sub­joke," clapped "·nicotine, it's too 
mitted the request for subpoenas to mean ... with your dancer or with Curtin at the conclusion of your cancer ... " to phase out his testimony Thursday. theme of dope with "smoke,smoke, 
If there'!» one time you nee~d a friend... 
... it's when you seek employment. ·That's our 
business. When you are seeking employment or a 
step-up from your present job, visit us. You'll 
become involved with people who understand your 
problem. And can do something about it. That's 
the key. Do something about it. Look us up in 
the White Pages. !\"ow. We're certain you'll 
make a friend. And so will we. 

World's Largest Prolesslonal Employment Service 
Call 674-8384 
Applications for Mardi Gras Charity Chest Funds submdtted to : 
Charity Chc~st Funds Student Govt Office Box 639 Notre Dame, Indiana 
Deadline: May 1, 1972 Information : 7668 


Urban Studies 
Ev~ening Monda~f, April 24 7:30p.m. Room 103 

O'Shaughnessy 
Work study ifor academic credit 
2. 
Urban studies seminar 

3. 
Urban studies double major 

4. 
Urban studies certificate 



smoke .... " The "Indochinese gang of traffie mantra target. 
read solo from poetic orations ranged in subject matter camps sheets think' movie screens. 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: 1 FANTASTIC Boys Girls 20" beginner bicycle. Low mileage, very few dents. Call 272­1885 after 6 pm. 
Martin Classical Guitar, model 00 18C. Tom, 8018, after 11 pm. 
8 Track closeout. 
Godd tapes only $2.00 
114 Farley. 
1970 TRIUMPH GT 6+, Dark Blue, Superb Condition, must see to believe, exhaust, new tran­smission, AM+FM radio, Pirrelli Radials, $2400. Call John, 232­4135. 
SAVE ON RECORDING TAPE! Cassette, Reel, and S-Track; Ampex, BASF, Memorex, Sony, or TDK. Call Don 3729. 
For Sale, 1966 Pontiac TEEM­PEST, Good condition. !400. 288­6562 after 6pm weekdays. 
So you expected a blue movie! We can only offer a year-long in­tellectual festival. The Review of Politics is having a sale of back 
issue  and  offprints  and  a  sub­ 
scription drive.  Library  Lobby,  
April 27, 28 10-2 pm.  
1971 issues $.75  
1968-70 issues $.50  
Offprints $.25, 3 for $.50  
Subscription $4.25  

Subscribe now, rates go up 
January 1st. 
1965 Ford Fairlane, Excellent Condition, $475. John Kloos, 6987. 
1970 350 CB Honda. Good con­dition. $550, firm. 283-1470. 
Like New '57 Chevy, 427 V-8, Candy Apple Red Metalflake Finsih, Mickey Thompson Racing Slicks, Chrome Reverse Mag Wheels, Inverted Truck Spring Rear Raked Suspension, Glass Packed Exhaust (Walker Blues), Hurst 4-speed Transmission, Competition Clutch, Factory Air (in the tires), Chopped and Channeled, Bored and Stroked, Power Tuned and Sun Analyzed. Wall1o Wall Pink Angora Interior, All The Decals, Car Used Only in Show and Beach Party Mvoeis. MUST SELL!!!!! Need Money for Med School. $500 firm, or Best Offer over $25. Call Chris Foley 1173. Free Chinos and Matching High School Tassle included. 
For Sale, 1966 Pontiac TEMPEST, Good condition. $400. 288-6562 after 6 pm on weekdays 
8 Track closeout 
Good tapes on I y $2.00 
114 Farley FOR RENT 
For ~~ent: 4 room apt. childless married student preferred. Phone 289-1329. 
3 bedroom 7 room house nearby campus on Notre Dame Ave. s.uitable tor tour people.· Summer only, Call John or Bruce 8092. 
House for rent. Summer only. 
blocks Irpm N D. 3 to 5 bedrooms. 
S175 mo. Call Julie 4549. 
Married Law Student . Furnished Apt. Two Bedrooms Call 272­8696. 
House for summer. Students bedroom home, completely furnished. 112 baths, shower in 1Jasemen1, washer & dryer. phone 232-7180. 
For ren1 4 room aj:'t. Childless married student preferred. Phone 2891264. 
Cottages on the Lake Michigan Shore for rent. GINTARAS RESORT, 15860 Lake Shore Rd. Union Piet, Tell. 616-469-3298. 
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCE MAJORS 


PERSONALS 
Kirk, You are a bothersome, ubiquitous, fungus. So Beware your demise is imminent. 
Precious. 
Cathy Conway: 
Congrats on Your Confirmation. Ann 
NOTICE 
Please offer your prayers today (April 24th) in memory of the 1.500,000 Armenians massacred by the Turkish Government, the first act of genocide in modern history, on this the 57th Com­memoration of Armenian Martyrs Day. Thank you. 
Parts and accessories for im. ported cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 272-7187. 
Mary Ann 234-3250 Experienced typist Will negotiate on rates. 
Will type anything tor faculty or students. Call 232-0136. 

Grow Abroad this Summer ... a month of carefree travel on your won in Europe ... plus tour weeks of study in art, music, photography, drama or French. Growth through experience and 
instruction ... isn't that what it's all about? $695 from New York. Call Joe McDonough, campus representative American In­ternational Academy. Phone 234­
3465, or 283-7024. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: Room key with numbers 358-196 on the North Quad lawn near Breen-Phillips. Call 1360 to claim. 
Found: St. Mary's girl's Yellow overnight case at Indiana Cab Company, apparentlY lost before vacation. 
LOST: Small black and white fox terrier. Last seen near library: Reward. 287-4589. 
LOST One catchers mitt. Last Saturday behind Senior Bar. Reward. 283-1470. 
Cape (Black full length). Lost at Beaux Arts. Reward for its return. Call Joseph Velez: 233­6800, 233-0842. 
Lost: Man's ring. C-3 parking lot. Reward. Call Mike, 233-6272. 
WANTED 
Typing term papers, technical reports, thesis, dissertations, resumes professionally done. Selectric changeable type machine used. Prompt service, free estimates 24 hour. phone 233 3257. EXPERT SECRETARIAL SERVIC3fe. 

WANTED: We will do typing anytime tor reasonable prices. 
Especially on short notice. Call Chip 8256 or Mike 6963. 
Need ride Nashville Vicinity. Around April 28th. Call Charley 6934. 
Need ride to Detroit this weekend for two. Could leave as early as Friday morning. Call Glen 
1397 or A.T. 1715. 
Word' :.-, ·. 7·J~· 3d a 4da 5da I lu ,. i'i I 15 1.3!> 1.55 11 15 l.OC I 50 1.85 2.10. 00 16 20 1.30 1.95 1.15 2 ss 2.>5 21 25 1 70 1 ss 3.20 3.85 4 45 26-30 'l.IO 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 )1-35) ~~ 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 J6-40 2 ao 4 20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5 ?0 7.10 8.20 46-SO J.SS 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 







