----------~--­
~-~--­
-----------\-:------...,...-_,------------------..--.. 
/
! 

j i 
~ 
1 
On The Inside 

l ,I 
Mock Convention 
... p.2 

Primary Analysis 
...p.S 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 1 
Vol. VI, No. 109 Thursday, April 13, 1972 1 
Mekong Delta threatened 

South Viets fear third offensive 
by Malcolm W. Browne 
(c) 1972 New York Times Saigon. April 12--Whatever else North Vietnam's full­scale offensive into South Vietnam has accomplished during the last two weeks, it appears to have seriously weakened defenses of the Mekong River Delta --the demographic heart of South Vietnam. 
The main focus of enemy attention thus far has been the northernmost cluster of provinces of South Viet­nam, where North Vietnamese divisions have rolled south. supported by tanks and missiles. 
A second campaign opened last week 75 miles north of Saigon, when other North Vietnamese divisions surged across the Cambodian border to threaten communities along Route 13 and the river and highway approaches to Saigon itself. 
third offensive immenent? 
There are fears among tacticians that a third North Vietnamese offensive may be imminent --starting at or near the Central Highlands towns of Kontum and Pleiku and cutting across the neck of the country to the South Vietnam Sea. 
Well over half of South Vietnam's population lives in the relatively confined but enormously fertile region stretching south from Saigon across the Mekong River Delta to the swamps and jungles of the southern tip of the Indochina Peninsula. 
During the last week, South Vietnam's army with­drew from a large part of this area, leaving it thinly defended by militia units of questionable military effectiveness. 
southern provinces stripped 
The South Vietnamese 21st division, responsible for the southernmost provinces of the country, was moved 160 miles north to bolster an airborne brigade as the latter sought to secure Route 13 and fight its way north. 
Stripping the southern provinces of their regular army garrisons tanks and artillery would be dangerous in any circumstances. The move was forced by the threat posed by the North Vietnamese divisions along Route 13, which leads to Saigon. 
Adding to the threat, Vietcong and regular North Vietnamese forces in the delta have regained some of the strength they lost in recent years to government pacification drives, according to observers with a 

South Vietnamese paratroops walk past the wreckage of a truck along Highway 13. 
decade of experience in the area. 
disturbing developments 
During the last two weeks enemy activity has in­creased sharply throughout nearly all the provinces south and west of Saigon, but some key intelligence sources find the following developments particularly disturbing: --North -Vietnamese forces moving into Tayninh province toward the delta last week hit the 49th regiment of the South Vietnamese 25th division so hard as to "render questionable its value as a combat for­ce." The North Vietnamese captured equipment from ihe unit that included four 155-mm. heavy howitzers. Two 105-mm. field howitzers, 10 armored personnel carriers, two M-41 light tanks and 14 trucks. --South Vietnamese units operating across the border in Southern Cambodia as a blocking force are reported to have. sustained heavy equipment losses and many casualties. During the last month alone, they are said to have lost some 40 tracked vehicles --tanks and ar­mored personnel carriers --either destroyed or cap­tured by the North Vietnamese. --The heavy guns and tracked vehicles captured by the North Vietnamese are apparently being put to ef­fective use against Saigon forces. --The pace of attacks by North Vietnamese or localVietcong units on government positions is in­creasing as enemy strength rolls eastward into the delta. 
Yesterday, for example, Communist forces repor­tedly overran a militia post 30 miles west of Mytho, a key delta city. According to reports reaching here today the defenders suffered 41 killed and 31 wounded. 
roads not sale 
Roads in many parts of the delta, which had been considered safe for several years, are again reportedly subject to Vietcong sabotage, ambushes and harassment. 
"None of this means that the Communists are about to take over the delta or the rest of Vietnam," one veteran analyst said. "In any case, nothing ever happens that fast or dramatically in Vietnam. 
"But the balance is being tipped again by a number of different factors. I don't feel it's realistic to expect the Saigon forces ever to regain all the territory they've lost in the last two weeks and priorities will have to be re-established for the areas that can and must be held. 
"The delta is just about at the top of the list, it seems to me, and we're all going to have to start worrying a lot more about it very soon." 

1 ~ 
,1 
, 
i 



Nixon S antibus bill may reopen court lights 
by John Herbers <cl 1972 New York Times 
Washington. April 12 -Acting Attorney General Richard G. Kleindeinst testified today that President Nixon's antibusing legislation would permit the reopening of every school desegregation case in the country to meet standards in the proposed legislation. 
His testimony, before the House Judiciary Com­mittee, conflicted with that of Health, Education and Welfare Secretary Elliott Richardson, who told the Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee last month that the measurewouldpermit the reopening of relatively few current desegregation orders. 
Kleindeinst's statement was considered important in that influential Southern members of Congress have opposed President Nixon's legislation on the ground that it would not help the scores of Southern school districts that have undergone extensive school in­tegration as well as additonal busing. 
In his first appearance before Congress on the legal aspects of the President's antibusing legislation, submitted March 24, Kleindiensalso did the following: --He said the Administration would welcome a provision in the proposal for a moratorium on court­ordered busing thatwouldprovide for a quick review by the Supreme Court to settle the disputed question of constitutionality. · --He refused to give his opinion on Constitutional amendments against busing before the com­mittee,saying that the President preferred to push for legislation instead on the grounds that i was quicker a..nd less drastic. 
--He said he believed that "some" Federal lower courts had ordered desegregation to achieve "racial balance." an action expressly forbidden by the Civil Rights Act of 1964. 
Richardson said at a news conference following submission of the legilsation that he knew of no court decision to bring "raical balance" and that the purpose was to do away with deliberately segregated schools. 
Nixon's proposals are in two parts: 1) to stay all court orders requiring additional busing until July 1, 1973, or until Congress enacts legislation prescribing standards for desegregation; 2) to concentrate Federal funds in segregated slum schools to improve the quality of education and to draw guidelines in the law to limit busing to achieve desegregation. 
As soon as Kleindienst was seated at the witness table this morning, Committee leaders of both parties charged that the Administration had submitted un­constitutional legislation. 
William McCulloch of Ohio, the ranking Republican on the Committee. accused the Administration of "asking the Congress to prostitute the Courts by obligating them to suspend the equal protection clause for a time so that Congress may debate the merits of further slowing down and perhaps even rolling back desegregation in public schools." 
On reopening cases, the President's second proposal contained this section: 
"On application of an Educatoonal Agency, court orders or desegregation plans under Title 6 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 in effect on the date of enactment of this act and intended to end segregation of students on the basis of race, color or national origin shall be 
reopened and modified to comply with the provisions of this act." 
The bill says that, for drawing desegregation plans the Courts and federal agencies cannot increase busing for grades 1 through 6 and must use busing only as a last resort in the higher grades. 
Asked about the reopening provision, Kleindienst • said: "If you're going to have the national standards then you've got to have a right to reopen cases." 
"All desegregation cases'?" asked Robert McClory, Republican of Illinois. 
"yes sir," Kleindienst said. 
In his prepared statement, Klein­dienst defended the constitutionality of the President's move. saying that it did not constitute interference with the Supreme Court's securing of a con­stitutional right, only a "particular remedy" -busing. 
Asked what the situation would be if busing were the only remedy available, Kleindienst said, "That raises a good 

question." 

r 
the observer
2 
world 

briefs
r 
<c) New York Times 
Thursday, April 13, 1972 

Moscow .. secretary of Agriculture Earl L. Butz. the first American official to confer privately with the Soviet Party· leader, Leonid I Br£>zhnev, since 1964, predicted that American grain sales to th£' Soviet Union could reach $200 million a year. He added that some credit and Soviet exports of oil and natural gas would be needed to finance the large grain sales. 
Washington -In a statement that went a long way toward meeting the oO)t'Ctlons of Southerners that President Nixon's antibusing hill would noi. help Southern school districts that have already integrated, acting 1\ttornev General Richard G. Kelindient told a house committee that the bill would permit the reopening of every school desegregation case in the country. 
Washington A member of the Price Commission disclosed that the hody is split over a proposal to allow manufacturers only to increast• their prices by the dollar amount of their added expenses. Currently. manufacturers can add a percentage profit margin to their costs in computing higher pnces. 
on campus today 
celebration of self 

1: 30--dr. elizabeth fiorenza, dicrimination in higher education, 
stapleton. 2:30--phyllis jameson, family and sex roles, stapleton. 

3: 30--self determination and scial relations, stapleton. 6:30--dr. paul messbarger, ritual celebration of community values, stapleton. 6:30--angie raaf, international perspective; the self determination of 
women, campus ministry room 8:30--theatrical event with all woman cast, washington hall 
9:30 mary lynn broe, conflicts in coeducation, stapleto11 
3:30 -discussion, larry conrad, candidate for ind1ana 
governor, alumni lounge. 8:00--concert, michael Iorimer, o'laughlin auditorium. 
8:00 -meeting, transcendental meditation, in­troductory lecture II, architecture auditorium. 
8:30--meeting, south carolina delegate, mock con­vention, badin vintage cinema. 



Lowenstein, O'Brien keynote mock convention 
by Joseph Abell Managing Editor 

AI Lowenstein, former Congressman from New York, will join keynoter Lawrence O'Brien as 
a  featured  speaker  during  the  
Mock  Convention,  Academic  
Commissioner  Eric  Andrus  an­ 
nounced.  

Lowenstein will speak on the night of the convention, Wed­nesday, April 26, at 7:00, Andrus added. 
"Lowenstein has spoken here every year I've been here," An­drus commented, "but I still think it's pretty big; the students like him a lot." 
In other Mock Convention news, he described the state meetings for selection of platform committees as "just about done." 
"There are still about fifteen states that have yet to hold meetings, but they should be finished by the end of this week." 
Concerning the convention schedule, he mentioned a slight change of session times. The 
Whyour fastback hasthelast laugh onits competitors: 
-~L-~­

~1-o~c:~,!j 
1200 Sport Coupe 

T.E.E. 
H.E.E.! 

T.E.E. 
H.E.E. stand for Technical Engineering Excellence. And Highly Extravagant Extras. Stand­ard equipment like: 

• 
A high-cam engine 

• 
Safety front disc brakes 

• 
Fold-down back seat 

• 
Reclining front buckets 

• 
Tinted glass 




• Whitewalls See the Small Car Expert, your Datsun dealer. 
Drive a Datsun...then decide. 
DATSUN 
FROM NISSAN WITH PRIDE 
Jim Hammes 
DATSUN 
2102 L.W.W. MISH, 255-9644 
Mon. & Thvr1. Eve. Til 6:3':1 

fhe Observer is published daily during the college semester ex. cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class Postage paid. Notre Dame. Ind. 46556. ______. 
sessiOn set for Monday atternoon has been cancelled, and the Monday night session will kick off the convention. Afternoon sessions will remain on the schedule for Tuesday and Wednesday but will not be held on Thursday. All evening sessions will be held. 
Andrus also felt confident, if a bit 
more hesitantly, that one or more 
of the Democratic Presidential 
hopefuls could be scheduled. 
Mentioning the names of Alabama 
Governor George Wallace and 
Minnesota Senator Hubert 
Humphrey. he said that there was 
a "definite possiblility" that 
campaign trails could bring them 
to Notre Dame. 
"We're not too sure that we can get them m time for the con­vention." he said. but that the Indiana primary was not long after that, and that both Wallace and Humphrey would be campaigning around the state. 
"We won't know if they can come here until the day before thev'll speak or even earlier that day. 
Andrus expressed confidence 

that the platform committee will 
have a full agenda drawn up before 
the arrival of O'Brien. 
"The committee will meet on 

Sunday night or Sunday afternoon, 
and should have everything 

ready for Messrs. O'Brien and 
Lowenstein," he said. 
;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
The real Walshe 

The picture that appeared on yesterday's front page was not Dr. Peter Walshe--it was Dr. Brian Walshe, M.D. 
Walshe released the following statement: 
"The situation is not so bad here that l find it necessary to travel incognito." 
:!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~=~=~=~=~=~:::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
!STUDENTS AND FACULTY 21 AND OVER 
RENT-A-PINTO 
$5 A DAY S<t A MILE 
Bill Kelley CALL Romy Hammes 
Chuck Hamilton Bob AtkinsonFordland 
Joe Hayden Ford .Jordan Motors South Bend Niles, Michigan Mishawaka 289-4041 (616) 683-3 259-1981 
Special prices on diamonds 
o ND students. 
Just show your ~ 
1.0. cards at any~ of our store~ 

Concerning delegates -at the would not affect the voting. Each Mock Convention, Andrus state would retain the proper emphasized the need for more number of votes for that state. ' people to volunteer. "It would just be up to the 
"We're just short of the 1004 delegates of that state to work out delegates we need," he said, "and a system Cof voting>," he said. we could really use more people." Anyone who wants to help, he 
However, he added, if some said, should call the office of the states were short of delegates, this Academic Commission. 
Regional 

Environmental Teach-In 
April 15 
Sessions from 1 0-5 
Admission -Free 

Life Science Center I 
I 
'========================~·~-~ 
ELTOn 

.JOHn 

Wednesday, May 3 at 8:00 in the ACC 
Tickets are $5.50, 4.50 and 2.75 
Sales start 

FRIDAY AFTERNOON at 3:30 in the Fiesta Lounge 
Thursday, April 13, 1972 the observer 

Gallo vs. Colombo 
Bloody battles terrorize Brooklyn streets••. 
By Nicholas Gage 

(C) 1972 New York Times 
New York--If there is an all-out gang war in Brooklyn between the Gallo and Colombo groups, as the increasing number of bullet­riddle bodies over the past few days seem to prophesy, both sides have the men and the guns to make it the bloodiest internal Mafia conflict in. many years. 
A check of the committed members of the two sides as listed in a report compiled by the Intelligence Division of the Police Department shows that the Colombo group outnumbers the Gallo group 118 to 85. 
But the Gallo group includes men with more "war" experience than the Colombo group. Some of these men have the capacity to provide the strong leadership lost to the group with the murder last Friday morning of Joseph Gallo. 
The experienced Gallo men are veterans of the Profaci-Gallo "war" in the early 1960's In that conflict, which resulted in a dozen murders, a faction led by Larry, Joseph and Albert Gallo rebelled against their Mafia family then headed by Joseph Profaci over division of the family profits. 
Joseph Colombo took over the Profaci family in 1964 and concluded a peace with the Gallo group. But to secure his position as leader Colombo sidelined many of the 


...while Malia leaders retreat 
from government investigations 
men who had been close to Proface during the war and replaced them with less ex­perienced younger men loyal to him. 
Since last June, when Colombo was critically wounded at Columbus Circle, non of those young men has been able to give the family strong leadership. 
Joseph Yacovelli and later Vincent Aloi reportedly have tried serving as acting heads of the family but with limited success. 
Neither has the experience or the tem­perment to be a wartime leader, according to law enforcement officials. 
The one who does qualify is Carmine Persic, who started serving a 14-year federal prison term 10 weeks ago for hijacking. 
Persico was the most daring front-line Lieutenant for Profaci in the war against the Gallos a decade ago. 
He is now in the federal penitentiary at Atlanta and prison records show that he has kept close tabs on recent developments in Brooklyn. The records show that in the last three weeks Persico's brother, Alphonse, who is listed by the police as a Colombo family member, and his chief lieutenant, Jerry Langella, have visited Persico at the prison four times. Coincidentally, Persico's cellmate at 
by Eric Pace (Cl 1!172 New York Times 
New York, .. April 12--High police of­ficials reported today that a number of Mafia figures had gone into hiding, ap­parently to avoid questioning about the 
spate of gangland-style murders. 
There was no indication that any of the missing gangsters had themselves been the officials said. But police rni·~~i.rm••r Patrick V. Murphy was rned that the real toll of the past two 
weeks may have1een higher than the seven known killings. 
No further gangster assassinations came to light today, however, and deputy police commissioner Robert Daley observed in grim jest: '·'They must have run out of bullets." 
Anxious residents of South Brooklyn, a M?iria stronghold, spotted a corpse floating in Gravesend Bay, but it had disappeared by the time police sped to the scene. 
In Brooklyn and elsewhere scores of detectives and federal agents continu~>d 
Joe Gallo is carried to his fina I resting place by his friends. 
NOW 
OPEN 
.I!!~!!.I! 

Weekend Special 
Slain mobster Joe Gallo's bodyguard Pete Diapoulos and friend leave funeral home. 
Atlanta is Hugh McKintosh, who was con­victed with him in the hijacking case and 
stood with him in the last  war  with  the  
Gallos.  
The visits to  Atlanta have led law  en- 

their investigations of the murders. They reported that many Mafiosi, notably members of the Gallo Group, were ob­serving the Mafia rule of "omerta," or silence. 
They said many potential informants seemed terrifi.Pd of being killed if they gave information, and policemen mounted guard outside the Chelsea home of Jerry Orbach, the actor who befriended the late Joseph Gallo, the best-known of the murder vic­tims. 
They feared the Orbachs might be har­med although Mrs. Orbach said there was no danger. She called the guard, "alarming dumbness.'' 
The high officials declined to say how many or which Mafiosi were now "lying low," but there were indications that they were mostly members of the Gallo Mafia group and its great rival, the group headed by Joseph A. Colombo Sr. 
"They're trying to stay out of our reach," one executive observed. 
The officials said Colombo had not been questioned in connection with the latest killings. He has been described as "a vegetable" since he was shot in the head at an Italian-American amity rally he staged last June 28. 
But Carlo Gambino, an even more potent 
Mafia overlord, is among the scores of 
underworld figures who the police say have 
not escaped interrogation in recent days. 
Orbach and his wife, both dishevelled and grim, accompanied Gallo's widow to the office of Manhattan district attorney Frank Hogan. They were questioned by two Hogan aides, and Mrs. Orbach said later that nothing in their questions indicated that Gallo's killer had been identified. 
Mrs. Gallo, who had been married to 
Gallo less than a month, wore dark glasses 
over her large dark eyes. She said nothing 
about the questioning. 
Sources close to the investigation said it 
was known, however, that Gallo had 
recently visited Elaines, a fashionable 
Italian restaurant in Yorkville. Elair.es 
has never been known as a Mafia hangout, 
and its proprietor, Elaine Kaufman, said forcement officials to speculate that Persico and McKintosh may be offering some long­distance direction to less experienced Colombo men back home. The officials, however, have no conclusive evidence to support that assumption. 
There is also the possibility that in the event of gang war some of the old Profaci Captains sidelined by Colombo would come back and assume command positions.­These include Harry Fontana, John Oddo and Salvatore Mussachio. 
On the other side, the Gallo group is missing two of the three Gallo brothers (Larry died of cancer in 1968) but is still strong enough to cause a lot of damage. In fact the group can count on 30 more men now than the 55 it had in the war 10 years ago. 
Albert Gallo, the surviving Gallo brother, is not considered as aggressive as were Larry and Joseph but is said to be smarter than either of them. 
In addition, he is supported by some 25 veterans of the war a of the war a decade ago. The most formidable is John Cutrone, 51, who has a long arrest record but no major convictions. 
Law enforcement officials believe that Cutrone would take command of the Gallo group in the event of an all-out war. 
Such a war could be avoided through the intervention of esteemed Mafia leaders such as Carlo Gambino or Thomas Eboli. But they would only involve themselves if in­vited in as mediators. 
Under Mafia tradition a conflict within a · Mafia family is off-limits to other families except on invitation to serve as peacemakers. 

Jerry Orbach and his wife have been placed under police protection. 
she did not know whether Gallo had in fact been there. 
It was in a downtown Italian restaurant, Umberto's Clam House, that an unknown assassin pumped three .38 caliber slugs into Gallo last Friday as he celebrated his 43rd Birthday with his bride and sister. 
Daley said one police theory was that the 
murderer might have deliberately chosen to kill Gallo on an important occasion in front of his family in revenge for the shooting of Colombo. 
He noted that Colombo had also been shot on an important occasion in front of his own family. Colombo's assailant was killed by a marksman, who has never been identified publicly. Nor have the police located a mysterious woman who was seen at the scene and thought to be connected with the crime. 
As of this evening, the police had arrested no suspects in the seven recent killings. But one high police official siad it was now considered unlikely that Gallo's killer had been "imported" from out of town to ensure that he would escape without being iden­tified. 
BEST BANDS IN TOWN 

Clothes and things 
-Two Bands a night -Dancing 6 nights a week 
(closed Monday.) -No cover on Tues., Wed., Thurs. -Open till 2 a.m. 
"One stop entertainment center" 

Men's Boutique 

' Cocktail Lounge
2 days for $8.00 & 6c per mile on 

Bowling Billiar.ds 

VW, Vega, or Pinto .SJ.u/"'s J\!ite C/u~ 
.... . .;.,. 

"On the Mall" • McKinley Town & Country 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD

Call 287-2333 
Shopping 
NILES, MICHIGAN 49120

Center-Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 259­
331 L.W.W. 
7:l.15 
616/683-4350 


4 the observer Thursday, April 13, 1972 
--------~~~~------~~~~ 
~...,. . ..JJ'<..~j Qd WQeQ tQesqoWQad goqe aqd spriQg bUrst r OpoQ tQe lt!Qd, 
r 
r 
tbe people ·. ·.·. /
r 
r 
r r 
r 
r rejoiced aiJd 
f 
~ ilraqkofspriqg.·.······ e.'' 
Start your own spring celebration with Tyrolia, California white wine and natural fruit flavors. The new wine that captures the spirit of spring. Pure wine that's as light and bright as that first spring day. With the crisp, clean taste of oranges, lemons and flowery spices. Drink Gallo Tyrolia, the wine of spring. 
~-..~ And celebrate! 
Gallo Virwvnrcb ..\1od<'~to. Cilliiorniil 




C. .
1rcus maxlmus:=:=::m::::::::::::::::::;:=:=============================:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:::=~===~=:=::::::.:::.=.:::.=:ru=:::::::.::;:w:;::~:::::;:::;;::.:::;;:;::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:: 
The Wisconsin Primary 
·:=:=:=::;:m;=:::::::::::;:::~::;:::::::;:::;:::::::::=:=:::=======:=:=:=:=:=::;;;=:=t=~:;;;=::::::;;;:z:::::.:::::=======~====~===::::;::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=================:=:.=:=:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::j::::£d Ellis 
There are three currently fashionable interpretations of last week ·s Wisconsin Democratic presidential primary. The first, the McGovern theory, emphasizes the South Dakota Senator's strong showing in all parts of the state, and notes, quite accurately, that :vlcGovern ran well in blue-collar districts, labor-union--dominated districts. and ethnically-oriented districts, all of which were con­ceded to either Maine Senator Edmund Muskie or Minnesota Senator Hubert H. Humphrey only a few months ago. 
This interpretation counters the view of McGovern as a one-issue candidate with a limited con­stituency, and it plays heavily on the success of McGovern's youth­ful "organization," which, in the words of one exhuberant aide, ·•rang one million doorbells." This machine beat Muskie decisively despite Muskie's thick portfolio of political endorsements. 
The second theory which might be called the Wallace theory, emphasizes Wallace's strong showing in a Northern traditionally liberal state. The Alabama governor finished an unexpected second, and ran close behind McGovern in most of the state's eleven congressional districts, although he garnered no delegates. George Wallace, in <!·ort, did well. 
A third theory notes that the two Georges, the two an­tiestablishment candidates, totaled 52 percent between them. Which is to say there is a fun­damental malaise abroad in our land for at least in Wisconsin) during this election year. 
Wallace, McGovern Issues 

There are, of course, weaknesses to all three theories. Twenty-nine percent is not stunnmg by any stretch of the McGovern imagination. Neither is 36 percent, which is what we get if we add .John Lindsay to McGovern, since McGovern will most likely be the major beneficiary of Lindsay's withdrawal. McGovern won a few convention votes in Wisconsin, but he won no broad-based mandate. 
Wallace benefited from an 
estimated 200.000 to 300,000 
Republican crossover votes. 
ObsPrvers helieve that McGovern
,. 
Our little inexpensive 
economy car can beat your little 1nexpens1ve econo~y car. 
Sp1tfire is a long time winner of Notional, as well as Oivi.sionol, Sports Cor Club of America Championships. But taking a title doesn't mean winning just one or two hard fought races a year. It means winning ten or twenty or more hard fought races a year. 
Also, don't think owning such a big winner will cost a big price. ~ecouse you 'can buy the Sp1tfire for a small price. And drive the Spitfire for a small price. (It gets 27 miles per gallon.) 
They don't.call us Triumph for nothing. 
gained some too, but not nearly as much. 
And then one can never explain so complex a primary as Wisconsin in terms of a single factor ' such as anti­establishmentarianism. Both Wallace and McGovern hit big on tax reform (with almost identical stances) and inflation, which seem ready to join school busing as major issues in 1972. However, the entire vote cannot be explained by this. 
Consider, for a moment, the nature of those issues. The busing question represents, to a large degree, an attempt by "common folk" to reject utopian plans of "pointy-headed intellectuals in Washington," to quote George Wallace. The tax reform issue, manipulated well by McGovern in Wisconsin, is a revolt by the blue­collar lower middle-class against the socio-economic elite of America. Basically, we have a class division in the nation, if Wisconsin is any indicator. 
The inflation issue also hits home with the poor, since the poor are most damaged by the rising price of foodstuffs. The "average man" is confused and afraid, and angry at leaders who cannot lead. This year may just be the year of· the average man. So far, the "big winners" in the "key primaries" have been Wallace and McGovern. They are the two least identified with any power structure,and most identified with the great mass of Democratic voters. Humphrey and Muskie would do well to note this in upcoming weeks. 
Wisconsin Conclusions 
Despite the confusion generated by the 12-way split in Wisconsin, we can draw several conclusions. First, three men are left in the race: McGovern, Muskie, and Humphrey, though not necessarily in that order. Wallace will cause confusion and will hurt people. but he lacks enough organization and support in non-primary states to draw many convention delegates. He may go to Miami with as many as 500 to 700 convention delegates, but 1507 are needed for nomination, and he cannot reach that. 
Lindsay, obviously, is out. and 
72 KACS • 120 

Triuroph Spitfirei 
The Complete· line o-t 1972 Triumphs are available for 
Immediate Delivery at 
SATISFA~~~TION

....... SERVICE 
1111 I"( ILVEIMAIII 
/" ;·;;; • •c o• •o• ''' o 
916 East McKinley, Mishawaka. 255·4151 Jackson has been unable ro get his "real majority" interested in a confused, poorly presented, and cliche-ridden approach to the problems of the '70's. 
Shirley Chisholm. Represen­tative Patsy Mink, Wilbur Mills, Eugene McCarthy, Sam Yorty, and Vance Hartke all pulled one percent or less of the vote, several of them being trounced by "none of the above." 
We are left with McGovern, Muskie, and Humphrey--all with weaknesses and strengths. and all representing different segments of a badly split party, which brings us to a second major conclusion. The Democratic party is split more seriously than usual. 
On the left we find McGovern, fairly well organized, rising in stature and likely to benefit from the demise of Lindsay, McCarthy, Hartke and others. There is still a significant force in the center, however, represented by Muskie and Humphrey. The former running-mates draw from dif­ferent constituencies, but they say practically the same things, and together, they pulled over 33 percent of the vote in Wisconsin. The inevitable showdown between the two will be in Pennsylvania on April25. If Muskie loses, his stock will rapidly disintegrate; if he wins he will have a slight edge on Humphrey. HHH's "old pro" strength in non-primary states will be tough to beat, though. 
Wallace and Jackson represent 
the right wing of the Democratic 
party, with the Alabama governor 
by far the dominant figure. The 
right wing could probably be in 
position to call the tune in Miami, 
and while Humphrey is the obvious 
choice, we have already noted 
affinities between Wallace and 
George M.cGovern. 
Split Democrats 

The seriousness of this year·s 
split lies in its distribution. In 1960, 
1964. and 1968 the opposition to the 
center of the party was never given 
a real shot at the top spot. Not 
since 1960 has there been a real 
question of the identitv of the 
(Continued on Page 9) 
why 
pay 
more 
?
• 
fire 
potnt 12colors 
The whole idea behind the new Scripto 19Cer was to make a fiber tip that will do everything the leading 49C f1ber t1p can do. Write as well, last as long, come in as many colors. and cost a whole lot less. 19C each. 
Notre Dame 
Bookstore 

,
,
, 

,
,
, 
, ~
, 
, 
Alu~nni 

, j 
1
,
, 

~..............----------------------------------------------------------------------~ ~ 
r 
r r 
r 
r r r r 
r 
r 
~ 
r r 
r r 
r 
~ I ~ 
r 
r 
~ 
r ,r ~ 
r 
~ 
Term papers & fraud 
ot... 'fiROSH #100' 
You'vE. 6oT YouR PiCK oF

Its about time! Its about time at least paper is probably going to be sharp one university --Ohio State --took legal enough to tell the company what "special 
STAI.L #'5 iN TilE l=ill.ST noo~ .ToliN, TilE SOVTHWEST Wii!JER OF"

action to prevent the sale of angle" the porfessor wants. 
TME ~vNK J:IOOM• oR FIND

professionally produced term papers. External legal action was an excellent, 
YollqsHr: AN ABANOOIIEO Sll.(tK
il'l 1111-nl BEND­

OSU nabbed Term Papers Unlimited, and long overdue approach. If the 
Easy Writer and Education Term Paper companies cannot be stopped judicially Research for doing what professors and they should be banned legislatively. 
university academic councils have Virtually every company currently on the prohibited for years--cheating, on a market uses the mails providing the 
massive and public scale. federal government with the necessary Students have a variety of reasons for legal basis. going to college. Not all of them are Some term papers are unnecessary equally noble but all should include at excercises in intellectual masturbation 
least some educational motives. The but that is not really the important draft is no longer a significant threat. The concern. Every student in any class has current state of the job market belies any to submit even these unnecessary papers. intention of getting a college degree to get Why should a rich or crafty student be a job. Students, then, are paying both to rewarded on an equal basis with those 
receive an education and to cheat who have taken the time to produce a themselves out of that very education. paper which was not only an individual 
There are no real recourses within the educational experience but a public University. The fake paper sellers are demonstration of that student's marketing a product indistinguishable knowledge? from the real thing. One professor's Ohio State is right: cheating is remark to the effect that he could tell the cheating. Period. difference was just an excercise in naivety. Any student purchasine a term John Abowd 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment.
THE OBSERVER 
editorials

AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Thursday, April 13, 1972 

John Abowd Jim Jendryk 
and opinions
News: 283~ 1715 Editor-in-chief Business Manager Editorial: 283-8661 
watched him finish another pack of cigarettes and Business: 283-7471 Don Ruane Bill Bauerle 
another glass of poisoned tea, and thought--as he 

Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
later told historians--that Rasputin was getting healthier with each lethal ingestion. Incensed at the injustice of a world in which the

0 b5 erverumummlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
strong and the noble and the people who hated selfishness, greed and dissolution could not ex­peditiously dispose of a raffish nuisance, Baron

The death of Rasputin 
Boyer-Sevitzky rushed upon Rasputin and stabbed him several times in vital organs. Rasputin frowned and said to Colonel Klopotsky,

lmmnmunmmmumunntmnum"'""""""""mmrmrnurn""""'""''"'m"'rummmu Ru55e II B0 ke r 
one of his noble hosts, "I hate to seem like a poor 

(c) 1972 New York Times dilating sentimentally upon summer nights of his guest, but I should very much like to have two more childhood when he had caught lightning bugs on the fried eggs and some Band-Aids." 
Washington, April 10--It was difficult to steppes of Russia. "Can't you take a hint?" Colonel Klopotsky assassinate Rasputin, as the many readers of The conferees, realizing that poison was coun­replied. "Nicholas and Alexandra," among others, can terproductive, decided to use cigarettes on Simultaneously, he drew his pistol and fired it testify. Rasputin. several times into Rasputin. Rasputin fell to the 
A group of "high noblemen," according to the Cigarettes did not do the job. In fact, cigarettes floor, apparently dead. Prince Kurilonsky said, World Book Encyclopedia, decided that the seemed to strengthen Rasputin. After chain­"Whew!" which is the Russian equivalent of, "I assassination was necessary because Rasputin, smoking the first three packs, he called for more think there's a light at the end of the tunnel." although he "had common sense," was "selfish, poisoned tea. While the noblemen were toasting their victory in greedy and dissolute." They invited him to a Prince Ilskozhky, meeting with assassination cavier, however, Rasputin rose on one elbow and palatial residence in St. Petersburg and served him experts in the kitchen, accepted their proposal to said he would appreciate it if someone could find 
raise Rasputin's cholesterol to a lethal density and him one more pork chop somewhere in the kitchen. 
poisoned tea. Rasputin was not deleteriously affected. induce a heart attack. The noblemen fell upon him with clubs and beat 
Several of the attending princes held a hurriedly Accordingly, Rasputin was quickly served four him until he seemed lifeless. called conference. They had read about hurriedly fried eggs, a rack of pork chops and a tureen of They then dragged him outside--the temperature called conferences being held at the White House gravy. was 70 degrees below zero, Fahrenheit--and left the 
whenever presidents had a nasty crisis; as princes, "What a nice surprise!" Rasputin said when the body in the blizzard. As they were re-entering the they felt more entitled to hold hurriedly called prince placed the food before him. As he examined palace, they were startled to hear Rasputin speak to conferences than presidents, but had never had a the meal, however, his smile faded in disap­them. pretext for holding one. pointment. "A little more of that tea would taste mighty good 
Rasputin's failure to respond fatally to the "Could I have some toast on the side," he said. on a night like this," he called. poisoned tea seemed the ideal pretext. The con­"Swimming in thick, rich butter."' In a group,. they lifted him from the snow, shot ference was held in a billiard room while several Baron Boyer-Sevitzky, watching behind the him several more times, carried him to the river other princes sat in the library with Rasputin, who screen, saw Rasputin finish his meal, heard him and threw him in among the ice floes. 
was imbibing his third glass of poisoned tea and call for some more pork gravy and buttered toast, "Next time," shouted Rasputin, as he was coming up for the eleventh time, "I am not going to be so quick to overlook bad manners." 
As he waded out of the river on the far side, hungering for another cigarette, his mouth set for a restorative plate of fried eggs, a whole squadron of nobles bombed him from 30,000 feet. 
Rasputin's dying words were heard only by the light of the cold Northern Star. "Something I did," he said, "must have made me a threat to the national security of the United States." 
111 ight editor: Dan Barrett Asst. Night Editor: Beth Hall Headlines: Pete Fries, Ken Kampman Layout: Mary Romer, Becky Griffin, Jerry 

Lutkus .., Night Controller: Joe Wilkowski Day Controller: Pat Kenney Day Editor: Jack Kelly 
and all the mama willie's gang. 

~------------r----------------------­


Sophomore Literary Festival 

Six novelists and three poets will comment on the current status of American novels and poetry at the sixth annual Sophomore Literary Festival at the University of Notre Dame April16-21. 
Charles Newman, critic, novelist and editor of Northwestern University's Tri­Quarterly magazine, will open the weeklong student-directed and funded festival with a keynote address in the Memorial Library auditorium at 3:30 p.rri. April 16. 
The winner of the 1969 National Book Award, novelist Jerzy Kosinski, will speak at 8:30 the same night in Washington Hall. Kosinski is the author of "Steps," and the award winner; "The Painted Bird," "Being There," and two books written in the early 1960's under the name of Joseph Novak, "The Future is Ours," and "No Third Path." 
Speaking at 3:30 p.m. April 17 in the library auditorium will be Diana Wakoski the first woman to participate in the festivai organized in 1967. She gained acclaim for two collections of poetry, "Inside the Blood Factory" and Motorcycle Betrayal Poems." 
Robert Coover, described by the 
Philadelphia Bulletin as "one of the most 
talented American novelists," will speak at 
8:30p.m. on April 17. He is the author of 
"Origin of Brunitis" and "The Universal 
Baseball Association," as well as a 
collection of short stories, "Pricksongs and 
Descents." 
Reading selections from their fiction in 
the library auditorium on April 18 will be 
Tull •
In 
Jethro Tull, the rock group that replaced the Beatles in the No. 1 spot, will be presented in concert by the Student Union Social Commission in the University of Notre Dame's Athletic and Convocation Center April 18 at 8 p.m. A companion group, Wild Turkey, will be presented on the same program. 
Led by Ian Anderson, Jethro Tull has amassed a modern-day record of sellout concerts in only three years of existance. Anderson has become known as the "dancing master of rock" for his stage antics which include jumping, skipping, lunging and pirouetting while playing the flute and singing the lead vocals. 
Appearing with him will be Jeffrey t:narles Newman at 3:30p.m. and William 
H. Gass at 8:30p.m. Gass is a literary critic and fiction writer who gained recognition for his "Omensetter's Luck," "In the Heart of the Heart of the Matter," "Willie Master's Lonesome Wife" and "Fiction and Figures of Life.'' A second lecture by Gass at 3:30 p.m. on April 19 in Carroll Hall of Saint Mary's College will concern metaphor and measurement. 
A member of the San Francisco group of poets, Robert Duncan will speak at 8:30 
p.m. April 19. He is the author of "The Opening of the Field" and "Bending the Bow." Duncan and Diane Wakoski will join with Allen Ginsberg, the poet-laureate of the ~ounter-culture, in a poetry symposium at 3:30p.m. April20 in the library auditorium. 
Speaking at 8:30 p.m. on April 20 in the library auditorium will be John A. Williams, black novelist and author of "The Man Who Cried I Am" and studies on Martin Luther King, Jr. and Richard Wright. The ap­pearance of Williams is co-sponsored by the Notre Dame Black Studies program. 
Jay Nuegeboren, author of "Big Man," "Listen Ruben Fontenez" and "Corky's Brother," will speak at 3:30p.m. April 21 in the library auditorium. Ginsberg will close the festival with a talk at 6:30p.m. the same date in Washington Hall. His published works include "Howl," "Kaddish," "America," "In Back of the Real" and "Reality Sandwiches." 
Raymond M. Funk, Jr., a sophomore from Libertyville, Ill. is serving as chairman of the 1972 festival. 
Concert 

Hammond-Hammond on bass, Barriemore Barlow on drums, Martin Barre on guitar, and John Evans on piano and organ. 
The group has earned gold albums for two current recordings, "Benefit" and "Aqualung." The latter is a biting, con­troversial look at modern-day religion that has merited an additional platinum disc for exceeding sales of one-million units. Their first album, "This Was," reached the top ten of English album charts after the group had played together only six months. 
Tickets for the April 18 show range from $2.75 to $5.50 and may be purchased at all ACC outlets or from the Student Union Ticket Office. 











Jay Neugeboren 




-~-------------------­
_8____t_h_e_o_b_s_e_r_v_e_r______T_hursdav, Apnl 13, 1972 
Viewpoint --the dome 
Women at Yale: part 3 

Dr. Robert Ackerman 
This is tht> last of a three part series in whkh Dr. 1\ckerman, assistant dean of students reviews the book Women at Yale. 
Tuesday Ackerman discussed the pl'llblems Yale encountered in recruiting ft>male students. In addition, he sum­marized the "realities fo the coed en­vironment" in the Ivy League school's environment. The mixer dance and the weekend date were also discussed. 
St>x at Yale 
The witness concluded that the majority of Yale's male students were attempting to relate to females in a special way but that they were very much afraid of being hurt of being used. The concern was frequently reported that women were out to trap a Yale man as a husband. The women at Yale were prepared by both fact and rumor to deal with his. the Yale philosophy of male-female relationships. The student handbook distributed to the yale Class of 1972 implied the philosophy : 
Treat Yale as you would a good woman. Take advantage of her many gtfts, nourish yourself wtth the fruits of her wtsdom, curse her if you Will, and congratulate yourself for the possession of her. But treat her w1th respect. When you leave her• as you ultimately must. profit from the education she has qiven you. 
The most frequently reported term used to describe the relationship between Yale men and women was"objectification. · While the term itself was not specifically defined. 1t implied depersonalization or deindividuation. The complaint was that Yale men did not perceive their female colleagues as individuals, but rather as members of the category "girls." In the classrooms this objectification occurred most frt>quently when the professors called upon the female students to respond to the discussion topic from the ''girls' point of view." In this sense one was not a person but a representative or spokesman for a group. ( lbjectification at the student level came to imply that the "girls" were to be viewed by the men solely as potential sex partners. 
Coeducation brought to light the double standard of role expectations that existed as a common belief among the male students. A sophomore explained it simply: 
A qirl who sleeps around is in some sense going lobe talked about by her peers cattily; a guy who sleeps around becomes an object of admiration. 
The writers devoted detailed attention to discussing the attitudes of Yale students under the heading of traditional, romantic, meaningful, and friendly sex. Their con­clusions. generally stated, were that the sexual mores of students were in a process of change. coeducation had not, by itself, made a significant impact upon behavioral standards. and the weekend date was still the most common form of relationship. In terms of figures it was found that only 26 percent of the males at Yale had dated Yale women while 36 percent were dating girls from other school exclusively. Most of the males interviewed did not consider any of the femal~ students as friends and some of thoseintervieweddid not know any Yale women even on a most caual basis. 
A study conducted at Yale and reported by the writers revealed that 61 percent of both the male and female students believed the non-coed colleges had proportionately higher incidences of homosexuality. The writers did not present evidence to support that conclusion. although they did offer the 
~ 
opinion that the fear of homosexuality was
l 
common to monosexual environments. A
l 
non-credit course in human sexuality was offered at Yale during the 1969-1970
t 
academic year; it attracted over six hun­
I 
dred students. Using this approach. an
I 
attempt was made to communicate basic information about sex in an oper way while­affording students the oppo !unity of receiving accurate and honest a. ·swers to their questions. The course was cit')d as an important means which enabled students to cope with their fears and doubts concerning the mystique of sex. 
Coeducational residence halls meant that the college deans had to discipline females as well as males. particularly in matters of parietal violations and cohabitation. (Yale parietals began at noon and ended at midnight.) Enforcement varied greatly from college to college with the general feeling being that both studetns and staff ignored them as a matter of course; the weekend dating system that was Yale's tradition was to a large extent dependent upon the fact that the parietal regulations would be ignored. With coeducation came cohabitation that extended beyond the weekend. A female resident supplied this account of the disciplinary proceedings that resulted when a fellow student reported her and her boyfriend to the master for living together in his room: 
On Monday John, only John. was called to the master's office. Ftrst he was told that we could be nrrested for 'lascivious carriage,' but it's not true because the laws have been repealed. Then the master talked about 'playing around' and John ,aid, "How dare vo~ say that. We have a steady relationship. Why don't you point out the weekend dates? That is much more playing around... ' The master said, 'Oh, John, you understand men have needs on weekends .. ' (By the end of the week the oirl was told she could not live on campus with her boyfriend. Shortly niter she moved out they broke 
UP.) 

The Male-Female Roles 
The writers devoted a chapter to the topic of stereotyped roles. Traditions had taught the men that because of their social and academic skills. Yale men were to be respected Women. on the other hand, were generally seen in terms of the weekend date. objectification. <md the sexual cougle standard The Yale environment before coeducation encouraged men to be men nnd following coeducation, it required of women that they adjust to the masculine at­mosphere. Despite the existence of these attitudes. Women's Liberation did not at­tract a great deal of attention of support on campus. The writers cited one factor to account for this somewhat unexpected phenomenon; many women did not want to be objectified further by having to be dependent upon a movement--liberation is a personal not a group exercise. 
As a spin-off of coeducation and, perhaps, of Women's Liberation. a small but active group of Yale students began to openly question the traditional stereotyped roles of the sexes. Yale Psychologist Kenisteon concluded that: 
Many at this point are trying to throw off the o,ld images--the images that men can not be sensitive and they can not be gentle, and they can not cry, and they can not like flowers and so forth. 
A male senior added: 
1 really think we are a transitional class. Last year was the last class of the really gung-ho college types -athletics, drink a lot of beer, dig the fraternities ..the old image. Now with women here a lot more will go. Farewell and goodbye. 
In their final chapter the writers present a discussion of role expectations regarding marriage. family, and careers. Generally, from the sample they studied, the writers concluded that women are somewhat more willing and ready to make changes in traditional roles. that men preferred working with other men as opposed to working with women and that this would curtail the opportunities women would have, and that while men did not see themselves as wanting to change traditional family related responsibilities, the women sampled were reluctant to surrender their traditional role in the family structure. 
Feminist activism occurred on several separate occasions. The female un-
Women at Yale: Liberating a College Campus Janel Lever and Pepper Schwartz The Bobbs-Merrill Company, Ind. Indianapolis, 1971, pp. 274. 

dergraduate and graduate students formed an unusual alliance to attempt change in areas where discrimination by sex was observed. 
The writers opinioned that the future role of feminist activism would assume political dimensions. Their prescription for change at Yale includes a consideration of both sexes and the role of the university which is presented as being repressive to the needs of the individuaL 


_5th annual spring weekend 
An Tostal plans unveiled by HPC committee 
by Jim E. Brogan 

Last night General Chairman Fritz Hoefer unveiled the plans for the upcoming An Tostal Weekend, sponsored by the Hall Presidents Council. 
The Weekend of April 20, 21, and 22 will mark the fifth annual celebration of welcoming Spring to Notre Dame. An Tostal, which in Gaelic means "The Festival," had its christening back in the spring of 1968 and has grown steadily ever since. This legitimate son of the former Badin-Sorin Olympics was adopted and reared by the Hall Presidents Council and in its five year life has developed a distinct personality of its own. 
Hoefer explained the weekend's composition, putting special emphasis on signing up this week in the Dining Halls for the free picnic. He announced that the picnic will take place on Saturday April 20 and will again be located on the lawns of Holy Cross Hall. 
He added, "There is no cost to anyone who signs up. A student simply has to present his meal card in the Dining Hall and he will be given aticket for the picnic. The 
Ed Ellis 
Wisconsin 
(Continued from Page 5) 
Democratic nominee. This year, there will be three groups, the smallest of which will still control over 500 delegates. At this stage, we have three potential nominees, representing two of the groups, all three of whom are likely to get pretty nasty in coming weeks. And there is always the possibility of a 
three-party  split,  should  Hum­ 
phrey  or  Muskie  get  the  nod.  
Nixon's delight.  

In addition to this analysis of who's-got-what, we may draw two political principles that ought to banish some of the "New Politics" talk that is so fashionable today. First. successful politicians are caused, maintained and distinguished by powerful, loyal, and effieient machines McGovern had the best organization in Wisconsin. That's why he won, and that's politics that pre-dates Machiavelli by a few millenia. 
Second, we might note that Muskie's bandwagonful of en­dorsements helped little· in Wisconsin. The reason is this: the endorsement of any individual is valuable only so long as that in­dividual's personal machine will work for the candidate endorsed. Muskie's backers had little or no control over their respective machines, and so the support never sifted down to the grass roots. In short, Muskie was sup­ported by some very poor politicians (we don't find Mayor Daley in his camp yet) who could not control their machines and who misread public opinion very badly. 
only catch is that if you sign up for inch-and-under Animal Race, a the picnic, we ask you to please eat Burlap Sack Race, and human that day at the picnic, and not in pyramid building. the dining hall. 
Likewise Friday of the Gaelic 
The chairman praised the efforts Weekend has been greatly ex­of the Food Services saying, "The panded and been knighted with the staff at the dining hall has been title "Frivolous Friday." The 
kind enough to promise food in frivolous events feature repetitionboth places, and we ask everyone's of last year's hits, namely the jello cooperation to show up in their toss, the old tire race, and the assigned places." tremendously popular Im­As always, An Tostal will begin personation Contest, as well as five 
on April 20 which has been dubbed new events. They are listed as a "Gentle Thursday." Why it has shoe race, an egg toss at the world's been nicknamed "gentle" is record of some 200 feet, a pennyanybody's guess for it includes pitching contest, the iron-man five such unbridled events as in­basketball finals, and the Original
dividuals being designated as An Tostal Amateur Hour. jailbirds, a pie toss booth, the ever Concerning this last event,popular dunking booth, a flour Hoefer said, "There is a blowing contest as well as such tremendous amount of latent 
happenings as an Irish Lunch in talent on campus. It is our hope
the dining halls, the annual ND­that as many people as possibleSMC Trivia Bowl, can stacking, a will participate in this Friday night 
local band performing on the North event. Anyone with any talent at Quad, and the Jocks vs. SMC all is invited to compete for our 
Basketball Game. prizes."Several new events have been Of course there is the full 
added to the already bulging complement of Saturday events Thursday slate. Hoefer explained, again this year. Repeaters from "As far as new Thursday events last year include the gimmick-type go, we've added a bubble-gum road rally in the morning, the free bubble blowing contest, a twelve-picnic, the Ben-Hur Chariot Race, a kite flying contest, a pie eating contest, a tug-o-war, and an ND vs. SMC touch football game. 
Besides these old faithfuls, there will be searching for a needle in an authentic haystack, a water 'n flour balloon fight, a Robin Hood Wallace and McGovern gauged • Little John type jousting contest feeling well, circumvented the with pillows instead of sticks over 
pri:mary 
"leaders" and, Bob Kersten-style, a mud pit, and a modified roller drove straight to the people, derby.McGovern with his machine, Hoefer emphasized that "con­
Wallace with his big-time rallies. cerning the roller derby, a If they are to win, Humphrey and premium will be placed on skating
Muskie must keep an ear or two skill, rather than on pushing and closer to the ground floor. George shoving. Anyone that gets out of Wallace has "sent 'em a hand will be thrown out of the 
message.". They ought to listen. contest." There are 22 more primaries, and This staggeringly full weekend is the message won't change much. capped off as always with the Irish 
Pound for Pound, ~ Dollar for Dollar, 
America's Best 
s 

c~~~~:~~
111111111 

'~/~ -~ 
~'> ~~·L--)~3
,. ,....,;~.w ~ 
COME SEE METRO AND ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL PURCHASE PLAN FOR COLL E GRADUATES 
Wake. Chairman Hoefer ex­reviews have modestly announced plained, "It is always the cheapest it as: "A unique item in literature. party of the year. This year we . . strikingly original. . . Touches have the South Bend Armory, and something very deep in us... rare,
only three dollars buys your bus contagious, terrific. . . transportation, your admission at unrestrained imagination. . . the door, and all the free beer you passion and craziness." Hoefer can drink." was no less vehement in his praise 
Details on all the events will be calling it, "a classic in our times." explained in depth in An Tostal's upcoming booklet. Pre-publication 
14 
M.AGICIANS OF BASKETBALL 
Friday, April 14 8:00"pm Athletic and Convocation Center N D and SMC Discounts 
Ticket prices $4.50--No discount $3.50-· Purchase for $2.50 
$2.50--Purchase for $1.50 
Must present I D Card for discount at ACC 
SENIORS! UNCERTAIN OF YOUR FUTUREl 

Consider the Marist Brothen Lay Volunteer Proaram 
Spend a year or two workina with youna people 
CHOOSE YOUR FIELD: -Urban Problems -High Sct·.ool Teaching -Guidance -Drug Programs, etc. 
CHOOSE YOUR COUNTRY -58 Countries In all 

Come listen to a Notre Dame Graduate now in the program: 
7:30 Tonight Morrissey Lobby 
For more information: 283-1955 



CAC's Performing Arts Series presents 

imation Festiv 
Thurs & Fri. Aprill3 & 14 8 & 10 pnt Engineering Auditoriunt Admission $1.00 PAS patrons free 
.. 

-~ 
Selected Animation Shorts Coming Friday: Yellow Submarine 
... 
Thursday, April 13, 1972
the observer

10 

UNUlN-MliUIY 
"He misjudged" 
West's condition is critical 

Freshman Warren West remained in critical condition yesterday in St. Joseph Hospital after surgery Monday morning. West dove out a window in Cavanaugh Hall on Thursday and critically injured himself. 
· Cavanaugh rector Fr. Larry Faye said West was engaging in horseplay. "Warren dove out the window on kind of a dare. He was daring himself. Nobody actually dared him, he just kinda jumped," he said. 
Apparently, West struck his head on the bank that slopes away from the hall under his window. The bank is not visible from the window. 
Fr. Faye said that "He miscalculated." 
West's miscalculation resulted in the crushing of two discs in his back. Monday's operation fused the upper portion of West's spine. Hospital sources say that it will be six weeks before they know the extent of West's paralysis, which is presently complete. 
In the meantime friends and 

SMC concert features outstanding guitarist 
Michael Lorimer, classical guitarist and protege of the great Andreas Segovia, will be presented in concert at 8 p.m. April 13 by the Performing Arts Series of Saint Mary' College. Reservations are now being accepted for the per­formance in O'Laughlin Auditorium. 
March of Dimes Walkathon set 
for Saturday a.m. 
The Saint Joseph County March of Dimes is holding their walkathon this Saturday morning, April 15 starting between 8:00 and 
9:00. Walkers are to solicit sponsors who are willing to pay them a straight rate per mile for the 25 mile walk. Sponsors can pledge anywhere from $.10 to $100 for each mile walked. The proceeds then go to the March of Dimes. 
Campus co-ordinator Albert Brenner can answer any questions on the walkathon. Brenner can be reached at 3663 or at 434 Morrissey. 
~:~:!:!:!;;;!;;;;i;:;z~~9;.~:::,Y:Y;;::~;;;f;;;;:::::~~ 
The story in the Observer con­cerning the drive for blood donors for the Red Cross contained two errors. First, the dates of April17 and 18 are correct, but they are on Monday and Tuesday of next week, not this Friday and Saturday. Also, the statement that any donors would be able to receive an unlimited blood supply for themselves and their immediate families for a year is incorrect. Donors will be able to receive one pint of blood for themselves and their families. 
Only 25 years old, Lorimer is already reaching the top of his profession. He began his studies at the age of 10 and eventually at­tracted the attention of Segovia at his home in Siena, Italy. He spent six summers studying with the master, prompting him to predict "I am certain that in a few years his name will be respected and esteemed in the United States and abroad." 
In the short time since Segovia made this statement Lorimer's concert appearances in Spain and America have drawn the critical praise of many newspapers. Collins George of Detroit Free Press wrote that "Lorimer belongs in the top rank of classical guitarists," and the New York Times praised him for "superb technical control and sensitive spirit." 
When he is not on tour Lorimer teaches guitar at the San Fran­cisco Conservatory of Music and at the University of California at Berkely where he has a master class. High Fidelity magazine selected hini as one of the most promising young artists in a recent poll. 
*mock convention 
The George Wallace for President Organization will have a meeting Thursday night, April 13, at 10:pm in the Badin Vintage Cinema. All who are interested in supporting or working for Governor Wallace during the Mock Convention are invited to attend. Governor Wallace who finished first in the Florida primary and second in the Wisconsin primary (the only two primaries he has so far entered> will be in South Bend early next week. For information 


BE'I.I'ER LOOKING AT UNION with CONTACT LENSES 
No hassle. Slip into the action with better vision without bother. Contact lenses help you see better, keep you looking great. Feel free to join the action with contact lenses ... You get better looking at 
Union. 


aeu•r Idea• Make l•ller can. 
residents of the hall are helping to make things more comfortable for West and his parents, who arrive early Friday morning from their home in Dumont, N.J. West's parents are staying at the retreat house, and a student has offered his car for their use. 
Each section within the hall has voted to donate its $30.00 allocation from the hall treasury to help with the medical fees. The money was tabbed for parties in each of the ten sections. 
A list has been posted in Cavanaugh, according to Fr. Faye, for those to sign who wish to spend a few hours with West each week for the next month and a half while 
he recuperates. It is hoped that enough people will sign to provide 24 hours of company for West. 

Michael Lorimer has been called one of the top ranking classical guitarists 
Wygant Floral Co. 
Flowers for all occassions 
327 Lincoln Way West 232-3354 
'72 KACS · 73 
The Little Sexy European Car! MERCURY 
CAPRI 
'72UCS -14 
Capri 2-dr. Sport Coupe 


COME SEE METRO AND ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL PURCHASE PLAN FOR COLlEGE GRADUATES 


JETHROTULL 

with Wild Turkey 
THIS TUESDAY, APRIL 1 8 at 8 pm TICKETS: $5.50, 4.50, 2.75 
SOME GOOD SEATS STILL AVAILABLE AT THE STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE (11:25 -12:15, 4:00-5:00 and the ACC 
Presented by the Student Union Social Commission 

ND tennis team splits m• Michigan 
by Eric Kinkopf 

A strong Michigan tennis squad ended Irish hopes of an undefeated season in Ann Arbor Monday afternoon thrashing the ND netters 8-1, but coach Tom Fallon's charges wasted no time in starting a new win streak rebounding with a 7-2 thumping of Michigan State Tuesday in East Lansing 
Big Ten favorites and the class of the Midwest. the Wolverine netmen made short work of the Irish, sweeping the singles competition and copping two of the three doubles matches. 
The doubles combination of Buster Brown and John Allare averted the shutout with a 7-5, 6-3 win over the Wolverine combo of Ross-Ravreby. 
Irish look good in first scrimmage 
by \'ic Dorr 

A hockey defenseman turned quarterback. a wide receiver named Washington. and a fresh­man running back shared the spotlight with Ara Parseghian's number one defense yesterday in Notre Dame's first 'live' scrim­mage of the spring season. 
The Irish number one and number two offensive units scored 34 points--none of them against the first-line defense --from various positions on the field, but several of the tallies were set up by defensive returns of interceptions and fumbles. 
There was plenty of player and position shuffling during the two­hour scrimmage, and both the offensive and defensive units were without players who will play large parts in the Irish grid program this fall. 
Mike Creaney, a starter at tight end for the past two seasons, was out with a strained knee, and his position was filled by sophomore Dave Casper. Running backs Eric Penick (pulled leg muscle) and Greg Hill <injured shoulder) were also sidelined. as was linebacker Tom Devine, who is still recovering from last season's knee surgery. 
Parseghian began the scrim­mage by pitting the number one effense against the number three defense, and fullback Andy Huff opened the scoring by sweeping into the end zone from six yards out the third time the offensive team <blues l had possession. Quarterback Cliff Brown was stopped short of the goal line on the two-point conversion attempt, and the ball went over. 
QB Bill Nyrop, who spent the winter playing defense for the Irish hockey team, got the number three offense moving when he ripped off a 23-yard gain on a keeper play against ND's first-line defense. Nyrop's squad reached the gold eight yard line several plays later, but Nyrop was thrown tor a three­yard loss on fourth and three, and that was as close as anyone came to scoring on the first "D". 
Second team signal~aller Brian Doherty, ND's regular punter, teamed with wide receiver Bob Washington for the second score of the day. Washington split the third team defense with a deep pattern across the middle of the field, and Doherty hit him with a 60-yard scoring strike. Freshman Wayne Bullock got the conversion by sweeping right end for the two­point play. 
Bullock paired with freshman quarterback Tom Clements to produce the second TD of the af­ternoon for the number two of­fense. Starting from his own 36, Clements found Washington for a 20-yard gain at the blue 43, then picked up 19 yards on a keeper to the 24. 
Ronny Goodman picked up eight yards on a left-side line buck, and on the next play Clements rolled right. found Bullock wide open in the end zone. and hit him with a 14­yard scoring toss. 
The fourth blue touchdown came soon after. Doherty took charge of the second offense after a a fumble on the 31-yard line and--sticking mainly to the ground--<lrove his team to the gold ten. Doherty picked up four yards himself on a broken play scramble, and then Bullock knifed through the right side of the line for his second TD of the day. There was no conversion attempt. 
Ken Schlezes, a regular deep back for the first defense, set up the final tally of the day when he picked off a Doherty aerial and returned it to the blue six-yard line. Gary Diminick squirmed to the one, and Huff got the score on an off-tackle plunge. The number two defense stopped Diminick short of the two-pointer. 
Jim Musuraca, a starter at 
threat of the day when he in­tercepted an errant pass at the five yard line and returned it to the 40. 
The blues mounted a final scoring attempt in the last moments of the scrimmage, but Bob Thomas' 35 yard field goal try sailed wide to the right of the uprights. 
The Irish will spend tomorrow viewing films and will practice on Friday before running through another live scrimmage on Saturday afternoon. 
Assessing the MU blitzkrieg, coach Fallon said, "They were just too good on down the line." 
"They had real good depth," he continued. "and in a game like tennis. if one guy is a little better than another in each spot, you get blanked. •· 
"Michigan is the defending Big Ten champ. and no one is ex­pected to beat them in the con­ference. They have a real nice team." 
Irish captain Buster Brown echoed the sentiments of Fallon. "They were just better than us man for man. And they had good depth in their personnel.· 
The Irish reverted to form in East Lansing, taking four of the six singles matches and sweeping the doubles com­petition against the Spartans. C:. 
The match started off on a sour note as both Brown and John Allare. the ND one-two singles punch, dropped close matches to the top MSU players. 
Rick Vetter decisioned Brown, 6-2, 5-7, 7-6 and Dave Williams handled Allare 7-5, 2-6, 7-6. 
But from there on, it was all Notre Dame as the Irish swept 

the next seven game points. Mike Reilly snuck past Joe Fodell6-7, 7-5, 7-6 while Brandon Walsh wasted no time in drop­ping Scott Rosen 6-1, 6-4. 
Rob Schefter defeated Al Jacoby 7-5, 6-4 and freshman John Carrico wrapped up the singles action with a 6~3. 6-0 win over Bill Jagger. 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 

outside linebacker last year, 
halted Doherty's most serious b h • d S 
Soccer team debuts today 
e l n tepa n 
The Notre Dame soccer team will open its spring season this afternoon at four o'clock, hosting the St. Joseph Kickers behind Stepan Center. 
The Irish will field a team dominated by underclassmen against the Kickers, a semi-pro club from Berrien Springs, Michigan. 
Despite their youthful lineup, the Irish hooters are considered to be one of the better Notre Dame clubs in recent years. 
Mikt> Reilly's booming serve helped him record a 6-7, 7-5, 7-6 victory O\'t>r Michigan State's Joe Fodell Tuesday in East Lansing. 
The Irish romped in doubles action as all three ND combos dropped their Spartan challengers in two sets. 
Brown and ABare swept
Vetter-Williams 6-1 6-4 Walsh and Chris Kane rec~rded a win over Fodell-Olsen 6-2, 6-0 and Reilly and Carrico finished up the afternoon's work with a 6-4, 6­0 decision over Jacoby Jagger. 
. . . . 
The spht wtth MIChtgan and the Staters left the Irish with .a 4­1 mark. 
Next on the agenda for the racqueteers is the Tri-State quadrangular in Terre Haute Friday and Saturday. 
There the Irish will be com­peting with host team Indiana State, Cincinnati, and Southern Illinois. 
Loo~ing ahead to the weekend, captain Brown figures the Irish should have· little trouble with State and Cincy, but predicts a close match with the Saluk1s. 

-
There will be a meeting for all delegates to the Mock Convention interested in nominating Senator Edward M. Kennedy for President, 
on Wednesday April 12 at 7 pm in the Fiesta lounge of LaFortune 

NEW AD DEADLINE 
All ads must be in by 1:00 the day before publication 
New office hours 1O:am -S:pm M-T 
lO:am -2:30 pm Friday 
1 2 the observer Thursday, April 13. 1972 
.Jethro Tull

Jethro Tull sho-w forces change 
This Tuesday at 8 PM Tickets at ACC (9-5) and S.U. Ticket 
Office (11:15-12:15, 4-5 PM)
in Soph Lit Festival schedule 
Student directors of the annual the same date. The philosophy Sophomore Literary Festival at professor from Washington the University of Notre Dame are University of St. Louis and former completing final arrangements faculty member at Purdue this week for the event which will University will begin his talk at bring six novelists and three poets 6:30p.m. in the Memorial Library to the campus beginning Sunday auditorium, rather than thP <April 16). Afternoon and evening previously announced 8:30 p.m. sessions during the six-day Also, the talk by Allen Ginsberg, program are open to the public. originally scheduled to begin at 
The appearance of the Jethro 6:30 p.m. on April 21, has been Tull musical concert in the Athletic moved back to 8:30 p.m. in and Convocation Center at 8 p.m. Washington Hall at Notre Dame. April 18 has resulted in a change Described as the "poet laureate of for the William H. Gass lecture on the counter-culture." Ginsberg is 
Senior Fellow voting held tonight, Friday 
from people such as Grouchoby Joseph Abell -Marx, Henry Kissinger, William
Managing Editor Buckley and Buckminster Fuller. They just weren't available toBalloting for the 1972 Senior come and receive the award," heFellow award will be held tonight said.

on a door to door basis and on His original intention was toThursday and Friday in the make the ballot "more varied,Huddle, St. Mary's Dining Hall, both politically and non­and the Senior Bar, announced politically," and extend it to in­Academic Commissioner Eric clude at least 5 candidates. 
Andrus. Andrus described the system as 
door-to-door balloting of seniors from 9 to 12 tonight. He went on to say that any 
a campus-wide Senior artists 
senior not by exhibit work
contacted this method may cast his ballot in the 
Sixteen senior artists in theHuddle from 11:00 a.m. to 3:00 University of Notre Dame's Mayp.m. on Thursday and Friday or in commencement class will presentthe Senior Bar on Friday evening. 
their annual exhibit from April 16St. Mary's seniors will be able to to May 21 in the O'Shaughnessyvote not only in the Huddle and the Hall Art Gallery.
Senior Bar, but also during the Called "'72 Conglomerate '72",
evening meal Thursday and the show includes paintings,
Friday in the St. Mary's Dining sculpture and photography byHall. 
students in the senior seminarAndrus emphasized a need for at class of Robert Leader, professorleast 60 per cent turnout for the of art. Rev. James F. Flanigan,award to be valid. 
C.S.C., is coordinating the exhibit. 
"Last year only about 25 per cent returning from a tour of Australia to attend the lectures and record some of hh~ poetry. 
Pictures and stories about the Literary Festival participants on today's Features Page, Page 7. 
Another participant in the festival who will be traveling a long distance will be Robert Coover, scheduled to speak at 8:30 
p.m. April 17 in the library auditorium. The author of "Universal Baseball Association" and "Origin of Brunitis" is currently lecturing and writing in England and will return to America for the Notre Dame event. 
The festival will open April 16 with a keynote address by Charles Newman, critic, novelist and editor of Northwestern Univer­sity's Tri-Quarterly magazine at 
3:30 p.m. in the library auditorium. Jerzy Kosinski, professor of prose and criticism in Yale University's school of drama, will speak at 8:30 p.m. the same date in Washington Hall. 
A faculty member at the New School for Social Thought, New York, and the first woman to participate in the festival organized in 1967, Diane Wakoski, will speak at 3:30p.m. April 17 in the library auditorium. She will also join Robert Duncan , San Francisco poet, and Ginsberg in a poetry symposium at 3:30p.m. on April 20. 
Other participants in the festival include black novelist and essayist, John A. Williams, who will speak at 8:30p.m. April 20, and Jay Neugeboren, writer in residence at the University of Massachusetts, at 3:30 p.m. April 
21. 
·-------------------------~ 
''LONG IIAIR'' 
Strictly Caranaby St. The British Shag is The new limey shag here. If you have long (LONG HAIR) is the hair Continental's bloody sensation, as Artists can trim it for a desired, for the young 
bloody true Shag, as HARE SET with kitties desired, with or without only. kitties.
a 

Healthy hair is our business. 
-~~II.ALI~ HAIR STYLING, LTD.~ 
SEH\ IN<; TilE N.D. COMMUNITY FOR OVER 4 YEARS 
<'all :.!59-7679 for APPOINTMENT 
l:l:.!l E. McKinley Ave., Mish. <next door to !\ormain l'har-macyl (SpPcial Student Rates Every Day) 


Classified 
Ads 
FOR SALE 
Stereo Amp FM Tuner Automatic Turntable. Perfect Condition. $75. 283-7634 -288-4160. 
For Sale: KLH Model 24 stereo system, with AM-FM stereo -one year old. Call -3272. 
1966 MGB, Blue, wired wheels, AM-FM radio. Superb condition, must see to believe. New BFG 
/oversized radials all around. $1200 or best offer. Call Jack at 232-4134. 
1971 HONDA CB100 ·only driven BOO miles. Call 1166. 
For Sale -Ampex AM-FM Stereo Cassette System. Brand New Heads. Also, pair Custom made speakers, 1 yr. old. Cheap-Must Sell. Call 2106. 
2 bedroom home on large sooded 
lot near campus, NW; one bedroom with panelling and built­in bookshelves, ideal for study; new aluminum storm windows, new colonial cedar siding, ·wall to wall carpeting, newly redecorated kitchen, soft water system, 1'12 car garage. For sale by owner. Priced for quick sale. Call 234· 8652. 
Handmade leather belts. 
New Selection Available in Tony's Shoe Shop behind the Administration Bldg. 
1966 vw $325. 233·5570. 1128 Lincoln W.W.' call Paul Blum. 
69 VW Bus-Tape deck, $1195 after 6 pm. Lakeville, 649-3849. 
FOR RENT 
Kitchen & Rooms -45 per mo. girls only. Also free rent for summer for painting the house. 
233-1329. 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: Thoreau's Walden: Hardbound, personal value reward. Call 3444. 
Lost: "Jailers" key ring with 4 keys. Lost before break. If found call 5448. 
PERSONALS 
Two daring males (sweet, kind, etc. l are prepared to interview female applicants for trip to 
Florida, Spring  '73.  Bring  your  
bi!<inis April 14th, 237  B.P.  Five  
spaces left vacant.  

The St. Louis Arch is not the nation's tallest monument. 
NOTICES 

Parts and Accessories for Im­ported cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 272-7187. 
50 gallons free gas with 4 tire purchase; 25 free gallons gas with 2 tire purchase. Ask about our rustproofing and shock absorber specials. Ron's Standard 1409 Portage Ave. 255-0520. 
Beaux-Art Ball, Saturday, April 
15. 9 pm . 2am. Ox Peddle theme· Super market stomp. Creative attire, Tickets: Architecture Library. 
ACCOUNTING MAJOR FOR CAMPUS REP. FOR NATIONAL CPA REVIEW COURSE CALL (Reverse Charges) or write to: BECKER CPA REVIEW 226 E. 8th St. Cincinnati, Ohio Tel·: (513) 651-4487. 
Mary Ann 234-3250 Experienced Typist Will negotiate on rates. 

ORIGINAL JONAH FISH FRY. ALL YOU CAN EAT. St. Joseph Grade School; Hill & Colfax St. Fri. April 14 5p.m .. 8 p.m. $1.75. 
Comedy Friday: The Wrong Box. Carroll Hall 3:30,7, 9. Last Grasp 
The best way to and from Chicago 'iS on the Greyhound non.stop from campus. Call Tom Boyer, 
6984, for information. 
WANTED 

Desperately need ride to Cleveland April 14th. Call Mary Beth 4828. 
Need ride to Columbus, Ohio after 
11:30 Friday, April 14. Call Mike 8847 or Mark 8852. 
Will buy used ten.speed. Call 234· 2376. 
Two female housemates needed. Summer only. Inexpensive & Near campus. 284·5165. 
MAKE MONEY Need 20 un· derclassmen -one from each hall (Notre Dame and St. Mary's) . to be stereo selling agents and make good, easy money. Call Tom at 1327 or 1318 right away. 
N D fresh seeking date for Jethro Tull concert and continued meaningful relationship. Call Sam 7203 after 6 pm. 
Volunteers needed for the March of Dimes walk·a·thon, Saturday, April 15. Call 3663. 
WANTED: We will do typing anytime for reasonable prices, especially on short notice. Call Chip 8256 or Mike 6963. 
Desperately need ride to Cleveland April 14th. Call Mary Beth 4828. 
of the seniors voted, and only about 5 per cent had voted for William Kunstler (winner of last year's award), so that wasn't really fair," he commented. "If we can't get60 per cent, we just won't have an award." 
Candidates for this year's award 
-
are Daniel Berrigan, Ernest Bartell, and Charles Evers. 
"The only real publicity for the ~andidates we've had was the nticles the Observer <see page 5 of yesterday's edition)," he went on. "We're hoping that the seniors have read that and if they haven't, that they'll get a hold of a copy." 
Andrus regretted the rather limited choice of candidates and mentioned that this was due to the inavailability of other nominees. 
"We got all kinds of rejections 
"One doesn't talk about MICHAEl COONEY. One listens to him." -Boston After Dark 

Saturday, April 15th, 
8:30 pm 

Washington Hall 
,----------~­
' 
• 
Not all' •• life insurance • compan1es

•t 



are alike 
t 
t t t t t 
t 

' 
-.-NML
t 

' 
1111 lli,IC,'Io' I I IM "Ill\ IDLJI\1' 
t 
~~>HI Ill\ I' II H'l MU!liAI liFE• Mil WAUKEE 
t 
1 

Are all football teams alike~ t 
' 
t

Are all colleges alike~ 
t 

Are all dates alike~ t 
t 

THERE IS A DIFFERENCE . 
t 
' 

A tremendous difference in what you get for your money. It's the kind of difference that's worth knowing about! 
Get the straight facts, by calling: 
CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVES 
Mike tlaumgartner 232-0649 
Ralph Holewinski 289-6100 
Kevin Hoeme 283-3543 
Tom Merritt 283-3094 






