On The Inside 
Will the Honor Code be revived? ... page 2 
Masters and Johnson preview ... page s 



serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 32 'Monday, October 23, 1972 


Trustees confer over weekend 
Duties of Student Affairs VP discussed 
The restructuring of the office of the Vice President of Student Affairs was the main topic of a Saturday morning session of the Board of Trustees. The rectors and assistant rectors of the residence halls also at­tended the session. 
The 9:00 a.m. meeting followed Friday's all day session of the full board. Richard Conklin, director of public information, said yesterday that no official information would be released from the Friday session. 
According to Dr. Philip Faccenda, vice president of student affairs and general counsel, the Fridaysession concerned mostly financial matters. The Saturday morning session began with Faccenda's explanation of duties of the central staff in the Vice President of Student Affairs office. 
Faccenda announced the election of three rector's and assistant rectors to serve as representatives to the Student Affairs Committee of the trustees. The three are: Fr. Donald McNeill, Fr. Maurice Amen, and Sr. Susan Bennett. 
In addition, Faccenda and Fr. James Flanigan, associate vice president for student affairs, related the formation of five committees of rectors who are studying particular hall life problems. 
Tile committees are studying: --the legal ramifications of a change in the age of majority in Indiana. (Chairman Fr. James Riehle, dean of students) --long range hall life planning. (Chairman Fr. Donald 
McNeill) --alternative hall life styles (Chairman Fr. Maurice Amen) --the problem of forcing students off-campus and conversion of another residence hall to a female dormitory. <Chairman Fr. Andrew Ciferni) 
"We are trying to help the trustees see the residence halls as a large part of the student's education," Flanigan said. 
Riehle's committee on the age of majority plans to investigate the policy changes which will accompany a possible change in Indiana law making 18 the age of majority. 
These changes include the university policy requiring parental permission before a student under 21 can move off-campus. The other problem under consideration is the possibility of an undergraduate bar located on campus. 
Ciferni explained that his committee needed an explanation of the "presuppositions we are going on" before it could begin work on the question of revisions in the university policy on forcing students off-campus. 
Some of the options the Holy Cross rector thought possible were a modified form of a lottery or a total lottery. 
"Apparently our options don't include using grade point averages," Ciferni said. He added that Faccenda 's opinion would be necessary to determine if use of the GPA was illegal. 



committees to study hall lite problems. 



New Women's Caucus: 'umbrella organization' 
Jeanne Murphy Staff Reporter 

"Our women's caucus is going to act as an umbrella organization and may include radical as well as moderate and conservative in­terest groups. We are not con­cerned with what type of people we include; we are concerned with bringing up issues we all see and recognize and all see, and bring these issues to the community at large," claimed Kathleen Weigert, member of the Sociaology and Anthropology Department and coordinator of Notre Dame's first Women's Caucus. 
The first general meeting fo the Women's Caucus was held on Sunday, Ocotber 22 in the Faculty Lounge in the Library. All women on the Notre Dame campus, faculty and administration, graduate and undergraduate students, were invited to attenq and participate in the Caucus. The meeting began wiyh an in­troduction given by Kathy Weigert and Mary Lynn Broe, instructor of the Collegiate Seminar course, on the birth of the newly formed organization of Notre Dame women. Approximately forty-five women were in attendance, equally representing the faculty, 
law graduate and undergraduate
levels of the University. 
"We discovered each other teaching in the same department lasty year, and we realized we existed," continued Weigert. She and Broe met during the summer and discussed the prospects of a Women's Caucus in the hopes of organizing a channel to com­municate to the community some of the needs they fled were of importance to them as women on campus. Notre Dame, just beginning its undergraduate coed program, was. "ripe" for a structured organization of a woman's group. 
"This umbrella or range of 
views from moderate to militant 
personalities is a positive thing and 
proves how far we have to go," 
according to Broe. "It is in the 
best interest of Notre Dame for 
women to organize. We can offer assistance in the decision-making process. That we exist is im­portant; we can make this bet­terNotre Dame as a result of our participation in it." 
The organizers of the Women's Caucus have described what they consider to be the key issue in their organization in the form of four committees. 
The first committee is concerned with discrimination and derutilization of Notre Dame women in general. This committee will investigate the numbers of women on the faculty and the percentages in each department. It will also study the un­dergraduate numbers, equal treatment in facilities and equal pay and positions. These in­vestigations will not only reflect the prodlems at Notre Dame, but of the whole society. 
The statistics on the ratio of male and female faculty members vary considerably. There are eight hundred male faculty and only forty-five female members.Out of this small number, ten are new faculty in teaching, research, special work, sixteen are library employees; two new faculty in teaching, research, special work, sixteen are library employees; five are non-teaching faculty. In regards to rank, there is only one associative professor, seven assistant professors, and four instructors . The Women's Caucus stressed the fact that ·there is one female faculty member on tenure. 
The second committee formed is going to study the sterotyped images that women carry in their positions. By reading and studying works written on feminist movements and the ·status of women, the Caucus hopes to incite panels and discussions that might lead to a better •mderstanding of women in general. 
A1committeeon public relations was organized with the prupose of 
(continued on page 6) 


-----~-------~ ~--------­
the observer Monday, October 23, 1972
2 

by Jim Ferry 
Starr Reporter 

After the demise of the Notre Dame 
Honor Code in 1969, the University Board 
of Trustees requested that the Student and 
I<'aculty Senates form a committee to 
investigate the collapse of the Code and to 
search out possible alternatives. In 
response to that request, the University 
Committee on Honor was formed last 
spring, and Professor Edward Vasta of the 
English Department was chosen to chair 
it. 
"We're trying to get down to the 
theoretical reasons why we can't have an 
honor system here at Notre Dame," 
commented Dr. Vasta last week. "For a 
Catholic university, this is of course, quite 
uncomfortable." 
Why Code Failed 

In a letter written in the spring of 1972 to 
Professor Harvey Bender of the Biology 
Department, Vasta explained why the old 
llonor Code failed: 
"The Code, the campus, and the world changed drastically between the Code's beginning in September, 1964, and its end in I<'ebruary, 1969. During its life the Code was never passive or stagnant; its ef­fectiveness increased steadily during the 'first three years, only to decline rapidly 
in the last year-and-a-half."
"The immediate cause of its death lay with the students charged with safeguarding it: the Student !1onor Council.'' 
"The first three Councils were secure 
about the Code's purpose, about its means, 
and about its service to the community ; 
working confidently and steadily, they brought the Code to a fully evolved form in three years." 
"But the last two Councils were sud­denly unsure of the Code's justification. These students-meditative, morally scrupulous-worried about the ethics of being judges of fellow students." 
"The last Council found itself in such a 
moral quandery that it refused to continue 
unless the student community committed 
itself unequivocally tothe Code in a new 
referendum. To precipitate such :> 
Db•erver lnsiraht 
referendum they resigned en masse. The referendum never came and the Code was dead." 
Vasta went on to write that the Faculty Advisory Council, of which he was a member, "must also share the respon­sibility of the Code's failure." 
He went on to explain why student and faculty support for the code was not unanimous. 
Code ill-suited 

"In significant ways, the Code itself was ill-suited to the situation. Although created and maintained by students, it was an authoritarian structure, an establishment institution, based on a type of community which did not actually exist. It sought to legislate morality for a ~roup in _which each individual was conscious of himself as a moral center. The Code also sought to restrict a virtue of wide applicability to the narrow and exclusive limits of student cheating, as if this area were seperable from the many other areas in which honesty should also apply." 
He added "that the times were against such an effort as the Code." 
Then the Honor Committee was formed. The Committee members were appointed by the Provost at the urging of the Board of Trustees. The Committee is represen­tative in that all segments of campus life are represented in the membership of the Committee. 
Students, Faculty, and Administration are included in Honor Committee mem­bership. The Committee recently voted to admit a woman student to the Committee. Approval is pending from the Provost's office. 
Vasta stated that "the question of whether cheating in the classroom takes place outside the context of dis~onor reveals things that arehappeningouts1de on campus." 
Causes of Cheating He went on to enumerate the causes of student cheating. Examining the problems of large classes, overcrowded conditions, inconsistencies in faculty procedure and expectations, and the intense pressure upon students to succeed, Vasta spoke of the overall dishonor that can be found at Notre Dame. "These are things that go on all over this campus. Can you isolate cheating? Both faculty and students take liberties with library books. $70,000 was spent last year replacing unreturned books." "With such widespread practices of dishonor found on campus, can you expect students to be honorable? These were the questions we were first faced with last spring." "That led us to the stage where we asked outselves 'whether or not the problem on one hand is policing cheating and letting all 

Professor Edward Vasta: the code has declined rapidly in the last year-and-a-half. 
the other stuff go on, or on the other hand, do we need to develop a new educational standard?' " 
Three Courses of Action Three points of view are held by Com­mittee members. The first point of view called for a con­centration upon cheating; making and enforcing a new honor system. Dr. Vasta "felt that the Committee rejected t,bis option. The second opinion calls for a "revamped basis for educational outlooks." This new basis would provide for an outlook where cheating would be eliminated because cheating would be "inconsistent with the circumstances of education." This outlook would "get to the circumstance on a cam­pus-wide level," and would call for a "change in the attitudes of students towards their own education." "Such changes would also have their impact on the faculty and would reduce dishonorable actions on their part," said Vasta. The third opinion has not yet been presented. Vasta felt that it will argue on the basis of a morality, expressing a moral philosophy. 


Hall Life Con1n1i ttee to set course 
The Hall Life Committee of the Student Life Council will meet at noon today in the Faculty Dining room of the South Dining Hall to determine its leadership and direction for the year. 
It is one of four committees that will research and recommend approaches to specific problems raised in tlie SLC. According to suggestions from the SLC steering committee, this body should be concerned with problems common to all halls. 
The other committees are the Campus Life Committee from which the recommendation for the next female dormitory might come; the Planning Committee which will probably look into coeducation in general, off campus problems and other areas with an eye towards the future; and the Rules Committee which handles University rules in general. 
The above areas for each committee were suggested by the SLC Steering Committee. 
Members of each committee, according to student, ad­ministrative and faculty representation respectively, are: Hall Life-Matt Cavanaugh and Anthony Abowd, Fr. James Shilts and Fr. Raymond Austgen, C.W. Murdock and Edward Cronin. 
Rules Committee-Fred Giuffrida and Dennis Etienne, Fr. James 
Riehle and Dean Devere Plunkett, 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

~=: 
I ~ ~ for a lot LESS MONEY. j~j 
~ » 
~·=· 232 Stanford Hall, 283-8650 ;~;j 
···Ill 
... ~ , 

Speakers, Stereo Receivers 8-track Tape Decks, 
I

Cassette Recorders, and Digital Clock Radios 
John Uhran and William Chapin. 
Planning Committee-Floyd Kezele and Frank Devine, Robert Ackerman and Philip Faccenda, John Borkowski and Fred Syburg. 
Campus Life-Jim Hunt and the woman's representative to be elected, Dt. · John Miriam Jones and Leslie Foschio, Ronald Weber and John Roos. 
NEW SHIPMENT ..... 



DOUBLEKNITS 
IN PLAIDS 
Choose Maroon, Brown, Blue or Green Plaids. All washable, wrinkle-free 

WIDE CUFFS 
In Grey, Brown or Maroon. These are brand new. Washable, too. 

DIAGONAL WEAVE 
The original, and still popular. In solid shades of new fall colors 

Pay V3 in Janrary Y3· in February Y3 in March 
Pay no service or carrying charge with this exclusive way to buy. 
*ATTENTION HALLS*· 
Mardi Gras Commlft-ae Wants 
.­

Volunteers For Hall Representatives To Handle Raffle Ticket Distribution 
CALL TONY MALENCH 1691 

$17 
$1~ 
$14 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 

Monday, October 23, 1972 the observer 
3 



Vote November 1 
Board proposal referendum slated 

by Don Ruane  member  county  council  by  a  
Executive Editor  referendum  vote  in  the  Nov.  7  
Registered voters of St. Joseph's general election.  

County will decide the outcome of a A full time elected chief with proposal to scrap the part-time executive duties will replace the three man Board of Comity commission which has executive, Commissioners and the seven legislative and judicial duties; and 

warld briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Washington--As presidential adviser Henry A. Kissinger continued to seek President Nguyen Van Thieu's support of a peace settlement that would be acceptable to Washington, Hanoi and Saigon, comments by officials in all three capitals Sunday seemed to indicate that agreement was close on the terms for a ceasefire as the first stage of a settlement. But Hanoi and Saigon seemed far apart on the kind of political alignment that would emerge in South Vietnam once the fighting stopped. And Kissinger was reportedly trying to assure Thieu of continued American support, while pressuring him to agree to a formula that would allow participation of the Vietcong in post-war Vietnamese politics. 
Washington--A question reportedly submitted by the White House confronted Sen. George McGovern when he appeared on a nationally televised interview program. The Democratic nominee, who has repeatedly challenged President Nixon to debate him, expressed surprise when he was told a question concerning his campaign rhetoric had been submitted by a White House official, but he an­swered it. He denied the question's premise that he had likened President Nixon to Adolph Hitler, but he said he stood by his characterization of the Vietnam bombing as "the most barbaric thing that has happened ... since the Nazis were in power" in World War II. "And I believe that," he said. "I don-t retract that for one minute." 
,,uop 

Washington--In his second nationwide radio speech of the weekend Presi~ent Nixon used a Veternas Day theme to praise "the young Americans who have served in Vietnam" and to outline his ad­ministration's achievements on their behalf. As usual, the President did not mention Sen. George McGovern by name, but the address was laced with occasional attacks on positions generally identified with the Democratic nominee. 
an campus taday 
4:00--lecture, on e.g. jung, thomas j. kapacin­
skas, library auditorium. 
7:00--lecture, fr. james t. burtchaell, university 
provost, howard hall 
8: 
00--lecture, masters and johnson, washington hall. 

8: 
00--meeting, celtic society, international room, basement of Iafortune. 



at nd-smc 
ROBERT STJGWOOD & MCA, INC. presents THE NATIONAL COMPANY 
CONCURRENTLY PLAYING TO CAPACITY BUSINESS IN NEW YORK 
AUTHORIZED PRESENTATION OF THE ROCK OPERA 
INCLUDING FULL 
ORCHESTRA AND CHOIR u 'JESUS CHRIST SUPERSTAR' IS A TRIUMPH!'' 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM WED. OCT. 25th 
2 SHOWS -7 & 9:30 P.M. PRICES: $&.50 $5.50 $4.50 
ALL SEATS RESERVED 
-Douglas Watt, N.Y. Daily News 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW 
at Auditorium Box-Office Daily llam to 5 pm 
CALL 232-6954 
for information 

a 15 man county legislature with law and budget-making pa will replace the county council which has only financial powers , according to the provisions of Senate Bill7, or Public Law no. 233 as it is also known. 
Information supplied by the county league of Women Voters reports that the reorganization will provide the traditional democratic checks between the three branches of government, provide more adequate representation of voters; and that the county has grown too complex for part-time ad­ministration by three com­missioners. 
The bill originated after county commissioners and the mayors of South Bend and Mishawaka established a 15 man committee to study reorganization in 1970. Unanimously supported by county state legislators, it was passed by by the 1971 General Assembly subject to a referendum. 
The county executive will serve four years, beginning January 1, 1975 and receive a salary of $18,000 per year. Before a person can be 
elected to the offece, he must be a county resident for at least one year. 
Authority and Checks The county executive's authority would include all administrative duties of county government, approval or veto of legislation, and appointment of an assistant ad­ministrator and heads of county boards, subject to legislative approval. His duties and powers are subject to approval by the proposed legislature, and the voters since he is soley responsible for his performance. The legislature, in the case of vacancy, will elect a new executive within 45 days, and the lr. ,Wfture president will serve a§" chief executive in the interim. The legislators will represent approximately 16,000 persons each, for four years, and at $1,200 annuallly plus $25 for each official meeting attended. Any vacancy would be filled by the legislature within 10 days. The body has all legislative power of county government; The authority to over-ride an executive veto. to approve executive ap­pointments, impeach officials, and 
make budgetary appropriations. The laws and 
approvals and budgets of the 

legislature are subject to executive ~!s~r!ctts will be redrawn into l:i approval or veto, and the IS ~~c s on a one man one vote legislators are more accountable basis. b~ the present county to their constituents because they commiSSion. and subject to ap­are elected from single member P,rova~ by _the ~resent county districts. counciL It IS estimated that the Only Form Changes rural-suburban area will have six legislators, Mishawaka two and 
Under Public Law 233 the voting South Bend seven. 
" ... there is no career that can match BUSINESS in diversity ofintellectual interest ... A vigorous, free society calls for the highest type ofbusiness leadership ... " 




Stanford MBA 
REPRESENTATIVE COMING TO CAMPUS A representative of the Stanford Graduate School of Business will be on campus to discuss, with inter­ested students, the exceptional educational oppor­tunity of the Stanford MBA Program. FRIDAY, OCTOBER 27 Appointments may be made through The Placement Office. 
The Stanford MBA program is a two-year general management course designed for highly qualified men and women who have majored in liberal arts, humanities, science, or engineering. 
THE STANFORD UNIVERSITY GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS 
STANFORD. CALIFORNIA 94305 


Personality A LAMB of a PER­SONALITY-soft and flexible to cuddle your 
foot-in a flock of gentle color combinations. 
Bred for flattering fit with blazer suits. 

Personality: 
Personality Shoes Are Available at: Shoeland, 
U.S. 31 North & U.S. 31 South, South Bend, Indiana Shoeland, La Porte, Indiana & Portage, Indiana Paul's Shoe Store 116 West Plymouth, Bremen, Indiana Swearingens Shoe Store, 208 North Michigan, Plymouth, Indiana 



News: 283-1715 EditoriaI: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
Monday, October 23, 1972 

The importance of the Faculty Manual 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
I 

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
At first glance it is not obvious why the Academic Council's consideration of the revised Faculty Manual should be of interest to students. It's not immediately apparent because all the Faculty Manual deals with is rank, tenure and esoteric committees. Wrong. 
The Faculty Manual is one of the few extant documents that deals explicitly with the formal academic governance of the University. To this extent it is an extremeI~ powerful document. Clearly, the Steermg Committee of the Academic Council would not have taken the whole summer to rewrite the manual. Instead, they would have used the Faculty Senate revision. Obviously, the members of the Steering Committee consider that document plenty important. 
What's inside 
Both versions of the Faculty Manual contain explicit provisions for student representation on the individual college councils. In fact, it is the manual itself that legitimizes the existence of college councils. At least in the college of Arts and Letters the student input to the college council has been a critical and definitive factor in several major decisions. The most notable example of 

daanesbury 

this input was the academic grievance procedure--a student written bill adopted last year. 
The other major student issue involved in the manual revision is the size of student representation on the Academic Council. The Faculty Senate revision cuts the size of the council from 65 to 40 with six student representatives. The Steering Committee revision cuts the size to 29 but with only three students. Such a loss of net input into what is clearly the most powerful council at the university should not be taken lightly by the student body. 
What's coming up 
At today's meeting the Academic Council will decide whether to work from the Faculty Senate revision or the Steering Com mittee revision. 
On a point by point basis students gain only slightly from the use of the Faculty Senate revision. The more important concern is that students show a clear interest in the document itself simply because it is such a strong formal statement of university ground rules. 
John Abowd 

Dan!t Ask Me About picking a new hall 
larry weaver 
I suppose a lot of you have been asking yourselves: "Where is ol' 
Weave, and why hasn't he been in the Observer lately?" Well, perhaps 
you didn't expess the question quite like that. Instead your inquiries 
were probably more along the lines of: "Just who the hell is ol' Weave 
and how did he get into the Obst>rver in the first place?" At any 
rate, it is nice to be remembered. 
There are, you know, more important questions facing our college ~ommunity than those_dealing with some stumbling columnist. Burning Issues confront us daily, such as: "Greencastle, Indiana--Is it?" or "Notre Dame-The Man behind the Story behind the Myth behind the Leg~nd." tOn_ sale,_ no doubt,_ at the bookstore) Fine and dandy subJects for discussion, you might say, and so would I. However a journalist's first duty is to his readers, hence today's topic: ' 
"Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., said last night 
that the announcement on the next women's dorm 
would not be made until shortly before room picks 
next spring." 
"It wouldn't help anyone to know," commented Fr. 
Burtchaell. 
Well. as any well-heeled debator might say, I beg to differ. And if Father Burtchaell had been in Badin or Walsh last spring he would probably be differing right along with me. 
Now getting the bad news, early or late, is no fun; and last spring's 
scenes in Walsh are not among my most pleasing memories of Notre 
Dame. After the axe fell, most of us were left with a rather vacant 
<'xperession and mind for several days. As one outsider put it: "You 
guys look like you all just swallowed Frogs!" As a matter of fact, 
that's pretty much the way we felt. Later our thoughts wandered to 
moving elsewhere; but few of us were prepared to break those ties 
that. somehow no longer existed. When it suddenly did become time to 
move. our shock turned to a barely subdued panic. A series of hurried. 
hut not very involved discussions took place, most of which came to 
something like this: 
"Wdl. are we gonna move there, or not?" 
"I dunno. I never even been in that hall." 
"Listen. I got drunk there once, and ... and like it's really got nice 
johns.'' 
"Okay, we're in!" 
If you get the idea that we simply didn't have enough time, you're 
right. None of us were 'lble to really research and investigate our moves. Many transfers had to be decided on hearsay, and that just didn't work too well. A hall with "really nice johns," was usually discovered to have telephone booths masquerading as doubles. The real tragedy is that these discoveries were often made too late, after the move. 
Why not give whoever is displaced plenty of time to make plans? Why not give them all of Christmans vacation to convince their parents about that house on Eddy Street. ("Sure we can live off campus. Nah! we ain't gonna drink beer alia time!!) Why not give those who wish to live on campus a chance to really investigate every hall community that interests them? 
Admittedly, an ordained issolution of hall life is not the cheeriest of Christman gifts. But many of last year's displaced would surely have appreciated knowing their fate that far in advance. At any rate, it's left to the Provost. Perhaps, in ·a burst of holiday spirit, he'lllet the axe fall early. We can only hope. 
I suppose as a veteran refugee, I seem a trifle bitter on this subject. I probably am. Mine though, was a special problem. You see, I suffer from a variety of inferiority complexes; and the outgrowth of one of these is that I decided to never again live with a room ate smarter than I am. That's why I live in a single room, now. Such is life--even extra time won't solve some problems. 


fiiarry trudeau 
~------------------~ 
W~U--He:T; 
fATHeR/ WH~T oc.TTeR 

!ICE!?TAIN~Y 
1711£' TO TI1U\ 1s mo B/11/ lt/E 
THAN t-AT~ fiT HIWEi" NOTHING 
1{!6Hr 01/CR ro mtx /180UT. 
~ CUPOP 

1 COFF&£7 J 
PO YOV 8£/..IGVE'IN 1HE PR{)41/Sc UI£U, YOtJ
THeN YOU'RE
W&v0 OF 111£'19HeRIC/lN fi)Oul.•. RNO eo-rrr~
5()f<& FOR 61:0!?6€ 
yes, OF SPIR/7; RNP TI-l£ :r:: Hc60V&!<N. :£'1JI{){)of!T 7lfl!t//( /1-1&5ECOtJR5£. DIGNIIY,!F .RU-oo! HE'S FOR f W/15 PDR lfii/IIGS
11&. 11NP ~u-/f/05£ NIXON. 711120UGif. ..\ \ k/OHeN? I \ /fl/11/85. I I 
I 
j 



~~~======= 
,~_,, -000 bJ 

r 
r 
~ 
r 
the observer 
John Abowd Editor-in-Chief 
Don Ruane 
Executive Editor 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Ann Therese Darin Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Elusiness Manager: Dan Thornton Advertising Manager: Joe Butler Asst. Ad Manager: Patti Strobel Elusiness Secretary: Ceil Popovich Subscriptions Manager: Art Ferranti Production Manager: Joe Wilkowski Circulation: John Woods 
Night editor: Marlene Zloza Ass't night editor: Chris Sullivan Layout: Kathy Kelly, Joe Abell (loser for page one), Don Ruane Copy editors: Ed Ellis, Mike O'Hare Picture man: Jerome Sedate visitor: Joe Wilkowski Typists: Mark Niederkorn, Dianne Chermside, Steve Roper, Howard Halle, Bob Barringer, Richard Meloy (Hal operator) Night controller: David Rust 

5

Monday, October 23, 1972 the observer 
movie as well. However, all profanities southern town lawyer defending a black uttered by minor characters will be cen­
received an Oscar for his role) as a small­

Lil:l:le Bi~ Sc:reen 

man accused of rape in the 1920's. It is sored since those are not necessary for the scheduled for trial at 10:30 pm but might be story. over-ruled until an hour later due to football highlights. T•·ivia Quiz: Dig deep to the '50's and Milt.'stont>s: Actor Leo G. Carroll who is early '60's to answer this one. Name all the best remembered as Cosmo Topper in family stars of "Father Knows Best", "Topper" and Mr. Alexander Waverly in "Leave it to Beaver," and "The ' Donna art ferranti "The Man from U.N.C.L.E." passed away Heed Show." at the age of 80 Monday, Oct. 16, after a long illness. Answers to trivia quiz
Breakout the popcorn and beer for some a mild librarian who dreams of being the 
Trivia: Patton won another war last
great TV viewing this week as the networks Scarlet Pimpernel. Says Scott in the film a 
·saJeqe.!l ..\anaaqs 

week; this time with the ABC censors. It
have scheduled more than their usual Ia Don Quixote <from TV Guide), "to think 
pue •uosJalad (nlld 'paaH euuoa 'zlaa IJR,)

was decided that the general's words would 
mediocre fare. Do not miss if you can at all windmills art> giants is madness, but to 
.. Moqs paaH euuoa, ·sJaq1ew AJJar pun

scatologically be left intact (meaning that a
help it or Tht>t> 1 Sing --a new production of think that they might be --therein lies the 
'MOQ ..\uo,L 'A(S~U!U!H eJeqJea '}uowne.Ja

few words never heard on TV up to this time
the broadway smash hit (debuted Dec. 26, source of human progress." It airs tonight · 
q~nH ..JaAeaa Ol u aAea'l, ·u,deq;) uaJne•t 

will bel since to cut the WW II hero's
1931 and extended for 441 performances). at R:OO. 
pue 'AeJ!) A((!H ·anqeuoa JOU!(:.>J ·neAM

colorful language would be ·to not only
An hilarious political spoof of presidential Drama -wise, The McKenzie Break is a 
auer ·~unoA 'J,IaqoH ,Jsaa sMOU)l Jal{Wd

weaken the character himself but the whole 
campaigns with wisecracks a':ld cutt~ng refreshing escape (sorry about that> from satire scattered throughout, this version the usual WW II war flicks since this con­
features Carroll O'Connor as presidential eerns itself with a British P.O.W. camp in candidate John P. Wintergreen, Jack Scotland and the German efforts to break (;ilford (A Funny Thing Happened on the out. With an emphasis on crisis and \\'a\' to tht> Forum, all those Cracker Jack suspense, Brian Keith as the Irish officer eommercials) as his running mate Throt-called in by the British matches wits with tlebottom and Cloris Leachman (Last Helmut Griem <Tht> Damnedl as the Ger­
lfvl A~ID W~ ~N 'T 

Pktun· show and "The Mary Tyler Moore man leader. Sychronize watches for twenty-
CARTll,f 12£1\L FOOD 1

Show"! as Wintergreen's fiancee. Also hundred hours <8:00 pm) Friday on 22. fl'atured in this musical are Michele Lee, Thursday. CBS also airs the 1967 Guess 
IYI~fh BIJI I A-SSO~t

Jim Backus, Herb Edelman, Jesse White, Who's Coming to Dinner with, as everyone David Doyle. Paul Hartman, and Ted knows. Spencer Tracy <he died four days Knight. 1will not bore you with their cred!ts aflt>r the completion of the film l, Katherine hull shall just say that they are all versatile JIPpburn. and Sidney Poitier. A great and accomplished actors. Said the New picture five years ago, it no longer has any York Tinws of this GeorgeS. Kaufman and impact of inter-racial condescension and (;Porge Gershwin Pulitzer Prize winner, "A should be viewed only if you are interested show that's funnier than the government." in seeing 'Tracy's last flick. Be seated The campaign begins Tuesday at 8:30pm on promptly at ll:OO. Channel: 22. Short Walk to Daylight <Tues., 7:30, 28) 
A grand master of all comedy flicks airs . concerns itself with a group of people on NBC Saturday at 8:00 pm. It's a Mad, trapped in a subway due to an earthquake. i\lad. !\tad. Mad. World is a classic of Family Flight <Wed., 7:30, 28) has a family n 1udevillian comedy and old burlesque stranded in the desert when their plane routines. The plot (evervone after a pot of crash lands. Both are made-for-TV and are gold. so to speak> is insig!lificant since the therefore unreviewable. But from the write­rrazv Pscapades of the numberous ups. rhope the viewers can bear through the l'Oml;dians and actors who make cameo plights also. appearances are the highlights of this film. On the local Saturday late movie, channel 
The third billed comedy of the week :!2 has been presenting some first-rate flicks features George C. Scott and Joanne twhich is a welcome relief from Creature Woodward 1both Oscar winners) in the 1971 FPaturesl. In recent weeks The Birds, flick. Tht•y Might Be Giants. Scott plays a lla•·n·,·. and Tlw List of Adrian Messenger social reformer who believes he is Sherlock have l;een shown. This Saturday, for both Holmes and Miss Woodward <Mrs. Paul those who missed it and those who would NPwman as everyone knows l plays a enjoy seeing it again, To Kill a Mockingbird psychiatrist whose name is Dr. Watson. will be _telecast. In this flick, Gregory Peck Jack Gilford plays another character role as turns m an excellent performance <he 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIll1111111111111. 

McNally reviews 
Kennedy dispels sexual myths 
truly come to understand themselves or to atld doubts about ourselves. These are only sensible and trustworthy judgments can beSEX AND MYTH know each other," Kennedy said1, "then it subsumed and worked through in the con­made: fifth, sexuality cannot be separatedby Rev. Thomas McNally, C.S.C. 
may be difficult for their relationship to text of human relationship in which from the context of total human personality1\lastt'rs and Johnson will be on campus develop much further...Obviously this sexuality is gradually integrated into a total in any discussion of deviations. 
tonight for a lel'turt> in Washington Hall at 
cannot be said of all cases, but it has been pattern of personal identity." X:HH p.m. 
dinically observed that a relationship which THE "AMERICA IS DEPRAVED" MYTH: <St>cond of a series) l'OmPs quickly to the sexual level may never The american scene, says Kennedy, is "We tell our stories in the same way so get beyond it; at that level, for as long as it THE GAY MYTH: This myth tells us that neither sophisticated nor depraved; 'it is that we can live undisturbed." lasts. the persons can stay strangers to one gay is good or even better than straight filled with frightened and uncertain people 
That's the reason Eskimos give for their another." sexuality. that it is everything from a who do not understand themselves or their unwillingness to change their own KPnnedy cites research by two solution· to overpopulation to the finest sexuality very well. mythology. Eugene Kmnedy, who gives psychiatrists to support his view. One bloom of human friendship. Kennedy What is Kennedy's answer to all these this t•xample in his new book on sexuality~ psychiatrist says that all major studies of rejects this, along with the old myth that myths? He gives it at various points points out that when persons lay aside their marital adjustment show a "consistent made homosexuals outcasts from ordinary throughout the book and especially in the myths they pay the price in anguish and 1 inding" that young men and women who society. final chapter. entitled AN OLD-FASIONED uncertainty. And this is why myths about have been virgins before marriage make Kennedy notes that some persons today M'\TH: Beneath all the stae apparatus of the sexuality are so hard to bury. better adjustments and are less likely to react very strongly to homosexuality and sexual revolution. he says, man is seeking 
Last time, in connection with the up-divorce than those who have had premarital suggests that these persons might fear the some humanly validating communion with coming visit to campus of sex researchers 'ex relations. The other notes tht frequently possibility of homosexuality in themselves. other persons: he longs in other words, for Masters and Johnson, I listed a few of the premarital sex teaches a person quite Despite these negative reactions, however, the deep kind of intimacy through which he mvths about sex which Kennedy explodes in unhealthful things, especially if their homosexuality has emerged into the truly experienceshimself as man. Sex takes Tl~t' Nt>w St>xuality. Myths, Fables, and relationship is disappointing or frustrating daylight more fully than ever before in. on its true significance when it is expressive Hang-ups (Doubleday & Company, Inc. in some way or another. America. of a rich and loving human relatinship. 1972. Available in the bookstore.) I'll " ... There are repeated assertions that "The signs of sexual preoccupation and describe a few more in this article. Note, THE"THIS WON'T HURT YOU A BIT" homosexuality is a natural variant," he experimentation," he says, "merely however, that Kennedy is not taking issue MYTH: This myth holds that censorship says, "perhaps even a preferred variant, of illustrates the human existential dilemna ­with Masters and Johnson -he quotes them must be opposed at all costs and in all cir­human sexual eperience, and that it ranks the search for meaning, personal and favorably several times -but is trying in­cumstances. A lesser tenet of hisfaith, says with heterosexuality as a manifestation of communal, through sexual experience stead to suggest a Christian orientation Kennedy, holds that obscenity cannot be human development. This is the kind of which is keyed to deeper realities -in a toward several aspects of sexuality. defined legally; therefore, nothing definite assertion again not backed by very much world that cannot get beneath the erotic 
can be decided or said about it. scientific evidence, that the homosexual surace of sex as it lives by myth rather than On the contrary, Kennedy holds that~ presents to explain his way of life. there is a reality." 
THE "AS LONG AS NOBODY ELSE IS difficulities in defining what is obscene does slightly tortured dualitY to some of these Ultimately, Kennedy claims, the problem HURT" MYTH. This myth alleges that not mean that a man of common sense hymns to homosexuality; what these is a religious one -though he concede~ that premarital coitus is morally acceptable "as cannot tell the difference between what is exaltations of homosexuality mean in the some will find this an "outrageous asser­long as nobody is hurt." Kennedy says it healthy and unhealthy, between what is whole panorama of human development is t ion" because of the contribution which the cannot be lightly asserted that the im-decent and indecent. And sometimes por­by no means clear." Christian churches have made to the mediatedecisionto have sexual relationships ,nography can destroy and cripple the Kennedy comes to five conclusions about disintegration of sex from personality. is devoid of the possibility of hurting psychological development of human deviant sexuality. First, we are at the "Religion's perennial task," he says," has anyone. beings. As an example, he points to the beginning stages of understanding it; not been to intimidate~r to control man but 
Despite the presence of affection," he association of sex and violence in books and secondly, our ability to deal constructively to free him for life through lighting up its says, "the act itself may have long-range films as an area which needs restraint if not with it varies in proportion to our own meaning for him. The persistence of sexual consequences in the lives of persons whose total censorship. openness to our inner human experience; . mythology illustrates the inability of own personalities are just forming." thirdly, the polarized myths of the "be-man technological or informational respom:es to 
For example, Kennedy maintains that THE "WE ARE SURE OF OURSELVES freak" and the "gay is better" will disin-clarify completely man's understanding of premarital sexual experience is prime ABOUT SEX" MYTH: Despite loud claims tegrate as we become morecomfortablewith his sexuality. Religion, of all the forces we setting for a dozen hard rationalizations and to the contrary, most persons <according to a deeper understanding of our masculine know. clearly possesses the power and the can, in fact, be employed for all sorts of non­Kennedy) are not at all sure about them­and feminine identities fourthly, we are not schemas of ultimate interpretation which sexual reasons-e.g., a dramatic expession selves in the sexual sphere. As a matter of hopeless to make judgements about what can answer the questions that come from of rebellion against parents, assertion of fact, we are not sure about many things constitutes healthy and unhealthy sexual the hearts of searching_ man. The sexual independence, assertion of virility or connected with human sexuality. behavior -the samw standards for what difficulities of twentieth-century ma11 are femininity. "No one is exempt," Kennedy says, "not makes for any kind of loving behavior may too profoundly human to be other than 
"If persons share sex before thye have even the healthiest of us, from certainfears be applied to sexual experience, and religious issues." 


.-. 

I 
l 
j j I 
l 
I 
j 
l 
" i 
I 
> 

the observer Monday, October 23, 1972
6 




Kissinger meets Thieu.Cambodians 
possiblity. only person present besides palace lasted from 8 to 10 am and stroke last year.
((:I 1!172 New York Times 

Although the meetings here have Kissinger and Thieu was Am­this evening's, after Kissinger's In any cease-fire arrangement, 
Saigon. South Vietnam, Oct. 22 -­been conducted in the strictest bassador Ellsworth Bunker, return from Cambodia, from 5 to 7 knowledgeable observers in Saigon Henry A. Kissinger conferred secrecy, a high-level Vietnamese Thieu's closest American friend. pm Kissinger was again spending feel, Cambodia would play a parly this morning with President official said today that Kissinger The earlier three days of talks the night at Bunker's residence, critical role, since two-thirds of the Nguyen Van Thieu, flew suddenly and Thieu had spent considerable had been attended by a large but Embassy spokemen refused to country is now under North to Pnompenh to meet with Cam­time discussing details of a cease­retinue of Vietnamese cabinet say how long the secretive White Vietnamese control and because bodian President Lon Nol, and then fire. ministers, Ambassadors and House aide would stay in Saigon. the Communitsts have extensive unexpectedly returned to Saigon The Vietnamese official also Presidential Aides, and there had Kissinger's sudden flight to base area there. for another meeting with the South disclosed that two weeks ago, been speculation that Thieu, a very Pnompenh came as only a partial Many Vietnamese fear that 
Vietnamese leader this evening. following the visit to ' Saigon of private man, would not discuss his surprise, since there had long been under an agreement allowing the 
! 
It was Kissinger's fourth st,raight Kissinger's aide, Gen. Alexander personal future or a possible speculation here that the proposed Communists to maintain their dav of secret meetings since he M. Haig, Thieu had ordered the resignation before his own peace plan Kissinger is believed to present areas of control in Cam­arrived in Saigon last wednesday, creation of a special high-level subordinates. Thieu's ouster haE have brought with him must in­bodia they could build up these and it increased the feeling among committee to study the problems long been the key communist clude Laos and Cambodia. bases even further for a future knowledgeable officials here that a of implementing a cease-fire. demand in the Paris Peace Talks. However, Embassy Spokesmen attack on South Vietnam if the major breakthrough in the Paris As a sign of the importance of This morning's session in the would not confirm Kissinger's cease-fire broke down. 
PPace Talks was now a realistic today's two meetings in Saigon, the concrete, modern presidential destination until he landed in Sullivan, who accompanied Cambodia for what they described Kissinger today to Pnompenh, had 
• 
as "security reasons." Parlier made unannounced visits to Kissinger flew in a U.S. Air Vientaine and Bangkok for con­
Force T-39, a small twin jet-liner ferences with Laotian and Thai 
• 
Wo111en's Caucus: broad appeal

• 
courier plane, accompanied by leaders on the proposed peace William H. Sullivan, Deputy settlement.

• 
problems that women in the Law effort to women to work agianst


(continued from page 1) Assistant Secretary of State, and Kissinger's visit to Saigon has
School encountered particularly discrimination," claimed Snyder. 
~ John Negroponte, a White House led to an atmosphere of feverish
keeping women on campus aware when -searching for summer Susan Taub assistant progessor of 
Aide. speculation mixed with awe among
• 
of i1.sues ofwomen'srights. Plans positions in Law firms. Ms. Snyder psychology, continued by stating In Pnompenh, Kissinger went Vietnamese. Informed sourcesfor t•stablishing a women's center, claims that the problem con­that the Women's Caucus could act 
•I 
directly by helicopter to Chamcar said that the same feelings havesponsoring a speakers program fronting women in Notr Dame and as an information group or an Mon. the official residence of prevailed in the American em­
• and distributing pertinent in all aspects of society is simply intermediary group in which in­President Lon Nol, where he bassy here. Most Vietnamese nowliterature are being explored. "discrimination" in general. Last dividuals could place a gripe or conferred and had lunch with the appear convinced that KissingerThe fourth committee is com­April, a Women's Rights opinion they have instead of Cambodian leader for somewhat has already agreed with Hanoi onmunications committee to inform Association was formed on campus solving their problem on their own. 
less than four hours. There was no the ouster of Thieu and histhe University and the surrounding primarily attacking the unequal Several of the women present official word on what Kissinger replacement with some form ofcommunities of the Caucus' plans job opportunities in the Law are already members of the newly discussed with the Cambodian coalition government.
and events. Judy Snyder, a third School. formed "Group W" of the Notre President who has been partially But officially no one is willing toyPar Law student, spoke about the "There should be a concerted Dame AAUP. A subcommittee of paralyzed since he suffered a say anything in Saigon.
the prestigious AAUP, the "Group W" focuses on the roles of women 
in the academic community.
Faculty Manual revision eyed 
Howard Hall lecture Series

Suggestions were made by the audience and questions were 
presents
The Notre Dame Academic making process in the academic 

Council meets today to begin sector of the University. discussed and debated as to what 
formal consideration of revisions the future holds for this newly
Also under consideration at the 3 

to the Faculty Manual, the set of created women's group. The 
Fr. James T. Burtchae/1
p.m. meeting is the future of the

rules governing the decision-organizers of the group and many
freshman physical education 

of the praticipants are optimistic 
University Provost
program. The Council received a 

as to its success. They hope that
Hesburgh on report two weeks ago from a 

moreNotre Dame women from all
committee which recommended 

groups will eventually become 
Monday, October 23 7:00 pm
that the program be continued

'Tear and Tell' interested in the movement and
without change and that women be 

share in the workings for their 
Howard Hall Chap_el__-----'
included on the same footing as

tonight, 11 p.m. men. rights as women of Notre Dame. 
At its last meeting, Council 
Fr. Theodore Hesburgh is the members were deluged with the featured guest on tonight's "Tear combined Faculty Manual reports and Tell" show on WSND. The of the Faculty Senate, the Steering show will be aired from 11:00 to Committee of the Council, and 
11:30 on botp. the FM and AM various other smaller recom­stations. mendations. This week will be 
Lyn Leone, a graduate stucJeht..iQ devoted to study and questioning,public administration, is the and next week will begin sub­moderator in the regular Monday stantive consideration of the 
night series. documents in question. 
Placement Bureau Interviews 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 207, Main Bldg. Interview times must be selected and signed for in person. Hours are 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m. each day, except Friday. The Placement Manual gives additional information regarding interviews and prodedures. 
OCT. 30 
Hurdman and Cranstoun, Penney & Co. BBA in Acct. 
Eli Lilly and Co. BS in E.E... BS, MS in Ch.E., M.E. and M.E.I.O. North Electric Co. 
BS in E.E .• Math. and Comp. Sci. l'niv. of Rochester. Grad. School of Management. BS in Engr. BA and BBA. MS for PH.D. program. 
OCT. 31 City National E>ank ALL BBA. Columbia l'niversity. 
BS, MS, all majors. Federal Highway Admin. Rc MS in C.e. OCT. 31 NOV. 1 
Lybrand, Ross E>ros. & Montgovery. BBA in Acct. MBA with Acct. background. Monsanto Company. BS, MS in Ch.E. and M.E. BBA in Acct. 
NOV.1 
E>endix Corporation. BS, MS in E. E. and M.E. BBA in Acct., Mgt., in MBA with Mgt. and Fin. backgrounds. Charmin Paper Products Co. BS, MS in Ch.E., C. E., E.E., M.E., M.E.I.O. MBA with BS in Engr. Ohio State l'niversity. Grad. Business Programs. All degrees, all majors. 
NOV. 2 American Hospital Supply Corp. BA, MA, BBA, MBA. BS in Science. Atlantic Richfield Co.-Harvey Tech. Center. BS, MS IN Ch.E. Rohm and Haas Co. Ph.c. in Ch.E. and Chem. Syracuse l'niversity. Grad. School Of Management. BS. all majors. NOV. 2 & 3 
E. 1. du Pont de Nemours & Co. BS, MS, Ph.D. in Ch.E. BBA in Acct. MBA with Acct. and tech. backgrounds. 
NOV. 3 Penn Mutual Insurance Co. All BA and BBA. Sears, Roebuck and Co. Cala Processing Div. All degrees and majors. Westinghouse Electric Corp. BS in E.E .• M.E., M.E.I.O. and M.E.M.E.M.O. l'.S. Government. All Federal Agencies. BA and BBA. 
Employer information. Alternatives. Teaching. Action-Peace Corps-Vista. Federal Service. Room 222, Administration Bldg. 



COLOR IN THIS "MINI-POSTER" OF ONE OF THE 
PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES! 
1. 
Buy a bunch of Flair pens. You need 3. Congratulations! You have created a black, red, blue, brown, orange and pur­genuine full color portrait of someone ple. (You need them anyway for school.) you know and love. Maybe. If he is not 

yourfavorite presidential candidate, have 


2. 
Now-color in the picture according to 


patience. You'll see your favorite next inthese color guide numbers. (1 ). Black (2). 

the Flair Election Collection! 

Red (3). Blue (5). Brown (6). Orange (9). Purple. Please do not color unnumbered (Don't forget to ask about Flair's running areas. mate, the Flair Hot Liner.) 


8 
the observer Monday, October 23, 1972 

Mizzou stuns errin 
by Jim Donaldson possible game it could after "Cisco" powered in from the one Sports Editor dedication all week in practice." for the T.D. Although his Fighting Irish The Irish ~hen committed
Taking advantage of numerous played their worst game of the another of the critical mistakesNotre Dame errors and playing year, Ara Parseghian wasn't that was to cost them thealmost flawless ball, Missouri's taking anything away from the game. After holding the Tigers toTigers stunned the eighth-ranked 

Tigers. one first down after the nsuingFighting Irish, 30-26, on a dreary, "Missouri was well prepared," kickoff, Notre Dame forceddrizzly Saturday afternoon in he said. "They executed almost Mizzou punt. But defensive tackle Notre Dame Stadium. 
perfectly. We made mistakes, but Greg Marx jumped off side on theThe Tigers utilized a pass in­that's part of the game. I have play and the Tigers retainedtl:'rception, an Irish penalty and 
possession.
nothing but good words for theirtwo fumbles to build up a 30-14lead 

total performance." Taking advantage of the break<'arly in the fourth quarter and Notre Dame fans might have had Cherry flipped a pass to Henrythen hung on to record one of the an inkling of things to come when .Marshall for a first down
biggest upsets of the 1972 collegiate at
Bob Zanot fumbled the opening linebacker Jim Musuraca season. 
kickoff in the end zone and the seven. Four plays later, JohnsonNotre Dame scored a pair of Irish were forced to start from the dove into the end zone from a yardtouchdowns in the final eight 
out with only 1:09 left in the half.
minutes of the game and had 20. Just four plays later, after 

It appeared that the Irish would 
possession of the ball with 2:26left Notre Dame had picked up a first 

turn things around in the second
to play but Missouri defensive down, Clements' first pass attempt 

half when the defense stopped
was intercepted by Roger Pankey. 
back Mike Fink snuffed out Irish Missouri quickly covered 46 Missouri cold at the outset,hopes for a rally by intercepting a 

such thoughts didn't last long.
Tom Clements pass and returning yards in 12 plays for a touchdown, 

Ken Schlezes was unable
three times gaining the yardageit to the Notre Dame 15. Mizzou 

catch Jack Bastable's punt and
necessary for a first down in fourththen ran out the clock to even its 

the Tigers recovered the football
down situations. The Tigers' lastrecord at 3-3 while handing the 

at the Notre Dame 38. A 30-yard
Irish their first loss in five games. fourth down play resulted in a 

pass to Bastable put the ball on the
score, Leroy Moss going aroundAlthough the Tigers had been 

eight, but the Irish defense stif­
his left end for 16 yards. Greg Hill thrashed 62-0 the previous 

fened and Mizzou settled for a 25­
kicked the extra point. Don Johnson powers up the middle for the Missouri Tigers. 
weekend by Nebraska and were The Irish quickly retaliated, ' yard field goal by Hill.

rated four-touchdown underdogs, 

The Irish weren't through
it was Notre Dame that looked like moving 66 yards in 11 plays to tie Jim DonaIdson:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::===================:::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:: 
the score (after Bob Thomas' playing give-away, though.
the weaker team. The Irish were conversion) with 4:31 gone in the Diminick fumbled away Missouri's guilty of four turnovers <Missouri opening session. Clements turned kick off at the 20 and the Tigers 




The Irish Eye 
had none) and the Tigers in several important plays in the added another three points, Hill'spenetrated the Irish defense for 329 drive, scrambling for 15 yards on 20-yard boot upping the score to 27­yards, 223 rushing and 106 through third-and-10 from the Mizzou 49, 14 with 7:40 to play in the quarter. 

the air. the best figures in each firing a 23-yard pass to Darryll With the period half gone, Notredepartment against Notre Dame 

this year. More importantly, Dewan on second-and-15 at the 42, Dame's offense made its first ======:===================:===========·Giving credit where it's due 
· then picking up 18 yards on a appearance on the field but theyMizzou ran 79 offensive plays to keeper play to put the ball on the didn't st~y long, punting the ball It's hard to believe that a team which had lost 27-Q to Baylor and had Notre Dame's 63, controlling the one yard line. Andy Huff hulled back to the Tigers after only three been smashed 62-o by Nebraska just a week earlier could upset unbeaten, clock for almost 38 minutes. 
the touch­plays. nationally ranked Notre Dame. Especially when the Irish were playingWith Don Johnson and Tommy over the left side for 
down. Missouri again moved into field on their own field. But it happened.
Reamon doing the ball carrying goal range but a fumbled center The Missouri Tigers had been expected to into Notre Dame

and quarterback John Cherry The Tigers weren't shaken, come 
snap forced Hill into an un­Stadium dragging their tails after the Nebraska debacle. Instead, theytossing four important com-however, and promptly put 
successful first
pletions, the Tigers' Wishbone-T together a 67-yard scoring drive in run for down played like wounded animals, pouncing on every Notre Dame mistake -­
yardage. and there were plenty of them --and playing good, aggressive,
offense consistently made the "big 11 plays, culminating in Johnson's play", picking up first downs in one yard plunge on the first play of The Tiger defense kept the Irish technically solid football.They deserved to win Saturday afternoon. 
third and, often, fourth dowp the second quarter. A 33-yard pass in check, however, and, the next Controlling the ball for almost 38 minutes, Missouri neutralized Notre situations to sustain scorii;I'g from Cherry to wide receiver Jim time Mizzou had possession Dame's potent offense by keeping it on the sidelines. 
drives. Sharp was the big play in the another field goal was for­Coach Ara Parseghian was quick to acknowledge the importance of thcoming. Hill put this one through that fact in the Irish dressing room afterwards. "We failed to control the 
"This was a tremendous victory march. 

the uprights from 24 yards out with line of scrimmage," he said," and they controlled the ball. The game is for us, our biggest since I've been a Once again, the Irish came back, 10: 13 remaining in the game. only 60 minutes, and they had the ball most of the time." 
coach at Missouri," AI Onofrio, moving 81 yards for the tying Notre Dame's offense really Defensive line coach Joe Yonto agreed with Parseghian commenting, who suffered through a 1-10 touchdown. John Cieskowski began to click after Hill's third "When you don't stop them, you don't give the offense a chance." 

campaign in '71, commented. "We carried eight times and Gary field goal but they just didn't have Although the Tigers benifited greatly from Notre Dame's numerousplayed a great Notre Dame team, Diminick, who saw a good deal of enough time to pull out a victory. errors, their ball control was accomplished by good blocking, intelligent which was demonstrated by their action at halfback in place of the 

... Clements, with the help of some play calling, accurate passing and hard running. Mixing their plays and 
ability to come back in the fourth injured Eric Penick, ripped off a fine running by Dewan and getting good blocking at the line of scrimmage, the Tigers gave Notrequarter.. Missouri· played the best 19-yard run, to spark the drive. 

Diminick, made the score 30-20 Dame's defense it's toughest and longest afternoon of the season. Time Individual Statistics with a 13-yard scoring run off the and again the fired-up Mizzou ball carriers broke away from Irish option play but a pass attempt for a tacklers or fell forward for an extra yard or two·. And quarterback John 
NOTRE DAME two-point conversion failed. Cherry, having his best game this season, burned Notre Dame's

RUSHING-Tern Clemt'nts, 13 for 94 yarits. lTD: Jolin Cleszkowsld, l2 for ~Z. lTD: Andy Huff. i for 43, 2TD: Dar.-yll Dewan. 7 for 32; Gary Dlmlndc, 6 for 28: The Irish drove 70 yards for linebackers and secondary with several key passes. 
Ron Goodman, 1 for minus 1. Totals: 46 for 248. 4 TD. another touchdown the next time "Missouri was well prepared, executed exceptionally well and did a PASS[JilG -Tom Clern~nts, 7·{)ut of It. 108 vards. 2 intercepted. they had the ball with an amazing, great job overall," Parseghian said. "They hit their third and fourth
RECEIVING -Garv Dlmtntck. 3 for 40 yards; Jim Roolf. 2 for 41: Darrvll 

Dewall. I for 23: Andy Huff, I for 4. • 36-vard Clements to Jim Roolf down plays with consistency and that's attributable to their fine PUNTING -Brian Ooherty, 2 for 38.~ averagE'. fourth down pass play highlighting execution. They took advantage of a couple of key penalties and played 
RETURNS -Punts: Ken Schll'zes, l for 3 yards. Kickorts: Gary Diminick. t 

the series. Clements almost fell errorless ball. I have nothing but good words 'for thier total per­
ror 31: Ron Goodman. l for 7; Bob Zanot. t for 4 

when he faded back at the start of formance."
MISSOURI 

the play but regained his balance "It was just one of those days for us." he continued. "We moved the ball 
RUSHING-Dml Johnson. 26 for 87 yards, 211>: TOm R«'amun. 16 tor 73; Leroy 

and heaved a bomb downfield for
Moss. 8 for 34, 1TO: John Cherry, 20 !or 30; Greg Hill. l for -.:1: Bill Zil'fler. I for offensively when we had it. In the third quarter, though we only had our -2. Totals: 62 lor 2"..:1. Roolf. Pankey, the Tiger defender, hands on the ball for a couple of plays."
PASSING -John Cherry, 4 out of7, 106 yards.RECEIVING -Jim Sharp. I lot :12 yards; BUI Ziegler. I for 31; Jack Bastable, made a futile try for an in­Notre Dame's offense could hardly be fault&l for the Irish setback. 1 for 30: Henry MarshaQ, I for 13. terception and Roolf, after Although it had the ball for almost 20 minutes less than Missouri, it 
PUNTING -Jack Bastable. 3 for 38 average. juggling the ball, squeezed it tight outgained the Tigers in both the rushing and passing departments. And
RETURN YARDAGE-Punts: John Mosclev. I for S vards; Kickoffs: Mike F1nk. 2 for 27; Rick Cook, l for 18. lntereeptions: Mike Fink: I fo.r 29; Bob Pankey. for an all-important first down at those two late game scoring drives werer real clutch performances. I for 10. the 13. Only a great play by defensive back Mike Fink thwartedtheirish hopes 
After Clements gained a yard for what would have been an amazing, come-from-behind triumph. 
with a keeper. Huff went off the left 
"I was lucky to make the interception," Fink explained later, smiling 
side and, breaking a couple of 
broadly in the jubilant Missouri Locker room. "<Roger) Pankey had
tackles, carried into the end zone 
called for zone coverage but I didn't hear him and picked up my man,
to make the score 30-26 with 4:10 
Roolf, who went toward the middle. Then I saw Pankey waving me back 
yet to play. Huff carried again on a 
and I saw Dewan. It seemed like a mile until I got back to him but I did. I 
two-point conversion bid, but was 
sure was glad to see the ball in my hands." 

stopped a. yard short of the goal 
The Missouri offense deserves even more credit, however. Mterwards,line. 
coach AI Onofrio outlined his pre-game strategy. "We didn't do much 
Cliff Brown then tried an onside different this week than we had done in the past," he said. "The most kick but Mizzou alertly covered the significant things were that we were determined to use all of our ball football and used up almost two carriers in the Wishbone-T and we had also decided to throw the ball minutes before punting to the Irish more than we had been. We knew that we had to have the big plays to win 13 with 2:26 go to. and we got them." 
Hopes for a miracle Notre Dame Onofrio, who had been under fire from Mizzou fans after posting a 1-10 victory were short-lived, as Fink I rec~rd in hi~ first season and getting off to a mediocre start this year, came up with his interception on re~eived praise from all corners after: his club's shocking. upset of the Clements' first pass attempt, a Ir~sh. Pareseghian, however, was being second-guessed by a number of toss down the east sidelines in­Insh supporters, largely about his decisions to try for two-point con­tended for Dewan. v~rsio~s after touc.hdowns in the fourth quarter and attempting an onside 
kiCk With 4:10 left m the game, rather than kicking deep. But Parseghian 
TEAM STATISTICS 
had sound reasoning behind both moves.

N.D. MO. ~,RST DOWNS .. . 20 IS . ·'~If we had made both two-pointers, it would have given us 30 points and 
Rushing ........... . 16 12 tted the game," he explained. "If we had been successful on one try we
Passing ............ . 4 4 
Pl'llaltiPS .......... . 0 2 would have had 28 points and a field goal ~ould have won the game. We YARDS RUSHING . 268 242 figured that percentage was in our favor." 
Lost Rushing ....... . 20 19 
"The onside ~ick was a tough decision," he continued. "The big factor 
Net Rushing. . ... . 248 223 
TIMES CARRIED .. 46 t! was our necessity for a touchdown. Had we gotten one of our two-point PASSES ......... .. 17 7 conversions, then a field goal could have won it and we would have kicked 
Completed ...... .. 7 4 
deep."

Had iilterceptl'd . . . 2 0 YARDS PASSING .. 118 106 But even the most brilliant strategy is worthless if a ball club can't
THAT FINK STOLE IT! Missouri defensive back Mike Fink heads down 10TAL PLAVS .... 63 79 
execute the plans on the field. Saturday, Mis_souri exec!Jted almost per­
ln~ptions .....• 0 ?
the sideline with his fourth quarter interception of a Toml Ciements pass 

PtS~.U.TI~/Yds ... '3-35 ·a-iS fectly. Notre Dame made mistakes. Too many mistakes, and the Tigers that ensured Missouri's upset victory Saturday. (t/~!IA~· $:% ~ won a major upset as a result. 



r 
Monday, October 23, 1972 th,e observer 
7 

'Blacks and the University ' 


New Frontier Society to hold forum 
PITTSBURGH~ 
PAINTS Notre Dame Student Discount 
-30% off Latex Paint -1 5% off unpainted furniture 
333 S. Michigan 289-2439 
by Greg Aiello Committee funded the 
Starr Reportt>r NewFrontier Scholastic Society 

The New Frontier Scholastic and the Society of Ujamma as one Society will sponsor its first Forum group because it was believed they tonight at 8:00 pm in the ~Jack provided the same service to the Cultural Arts Center located m the eampus community. The New Lal•'ortune Student Center. An-Frontier group then issued a nounced as a "Forum to broaden statement calling this an act of your learning experience," the institutional racism and topic will be "Black Peopl~, Bl~ck requesting the separate funding of Students and the Umverstty each group. Community." The statement read in part: "We 
The F..orum will feature Melvin object to the attempt of the Holmes, Alonzo Watson, and Ben Finance Committee to impose Johnson, all members of the South racial standards on our mem-Bend community, and will be bership ... We neither define nor moderated by Notre Dame senior consider ourselves a 'black Calr Ellison. organization' and the attempt by 
The Forum follows in the wake of the Finance Committee to do so a dispute over student government (whether or not intentionally) funding of both the New Frontier constitutes an act of institutional Scolastic Society and the Society of racism. The Society of Ujamma Ujamma. . and the New Frontier Scholastic 
In drawmg up the student Society are different and distinct government budget the Finance organizations. each working to
• 1 B d 
by Tom Sheridan Starr Ht>portt>r 

Selection of the University student judicial board has been finalized according to judicial coordinator Greg Smith. 
The Judicial board seats five faculty members and twelve students. 
The five faculty members are: Jo'r. James Riehle, dean of students, Engineering Professor Harry Lafuse, Chemistry Professor Maurice Schwartz, Professor Michael Mcintire of the Law School, and Dr. Charles Arens of the Psychology department. 
Saint Mary's lecture series continues Wed. 
In the continuing lecture series "The American Scene: A cultural Series," Saint Mary's College presents Patrick Gallagher speaking on "Meatheads and A Way of Life," Wednesday, October 25, 1972 at 7:30pm, in Carroll Hall, Madeleva Memorial. 
Gallagher is currently Director of the South Bend Criminal Justice Planning Unit. 
Born in New York, Gallagher received his M.A. from New York University. Along with th coor­dination of present programs, he is repsonsible for the multi-year planning and for evaluating programs already in operating for the City of South Bend and Saint Joseph County. 
·. ·.· 

l•Cla oar comp e e While UJa_mma I~ . prtmartly
concerned wtth provtdmg major
1U d 

serve specific functions, not the 'duplication of services.' As the Society of Ujamma and the New Frontier Scholastic Society are two distinct organizations, we question the precedent for the joint funding of two separate groups." 
The groups won their point when the Board of Commissioners of the student government changed the recommendation of the Finance Committee and decided to fund the groups separately. Ujamma was allocated $2,500 and the New Frontier Scholastic Society $400. 
"The charge against student government still stands," said Ray Turner. spokesman for the New Frontier Scholastic Society. "There isn't a dispute any longer. But their allocation of money is consistent with their past actions of institutional racism." 
Turner explained that the initial action of the Finance committee in 
~izeabl~ difference from the $4500
1 t d It rec~tved ~ast year:. 
arrangmg for joint funding of the two groups is an example of this racism. he feels there is a tendency to consider all social organizations organized by black students as 
branches  of  one  large  
organization.  
If black students  are  the only  

tudents taking the iniative to fill the social vacuum that exists at Notre Dame, Turner feels they should not be restrained because they are supposedly representing only 
black interests. Turner feels his organization exists for the benefit of the entire university com­munity. he also emphasized that the New Frontier group; has ab­solutely no connection with Ujamma. 
Both organizations must deal with fi~ancial shortag;es. The New Fro':ltter Scholastic Society recetved $400 out of a requested $2800. Ujamma received $2500, a social activities for black 
students, the New Frontier 
Scholastic Society is more 
a c a d e m i c a 11 y or i en ted 
organization and is open to all 
students. Its aim is "to emphasize 
the discussion of areas, the study 
of topics, and also the study and 
discussion of the content of issues 
that lend themselves to increasing 
the capacity of black people to 
responsibly contribute to the socio-
political enviornment that they 
share. 
Turner sees the New Frontier 
ScholasticSocietyasamuchneeded 
vehicle for the promotion of communication between black and white students. The Forum which begins tonight, is part' of a program that also includes a lecture series, a film series, a weekly newsletter, a tutoring program, and black music and art 

programs. -! 
The New Frontier Scholastic 
S?ciety meets every Thursday mght at 6:30 in the Black Cultural 

lArts Center. 
l 
i 
1 
j 



