
Special FreshnJan Issue 
On The Inside 
Fischer wins world chess crown ...page 2 
Frosh foght for b·ed space ...page 3 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII, No. 1 Saturday, September 2, 1972 
Marks first year for female domers 
Class of '76 sets full quotas 
......... -···· 
• •• HOME._ 

..•stnkin' CKII C 
•••Gftd. o.SSu.tCS

ah, the 
ror -the.

an t~ 


ttw t._nkless

golcle.n 


com'"' 'JeG r.

0~ 
title of .•.

dot'~#!··· 
Jn 

by Anthony Abowd 
The Notre Dame class of 1976 today will rea~h its full enrollment of over 1600 students, Ill­eluding ND's first female freshmen. Progr~ms for their orientation began today and contmue throughout the weekend. 
"We shall stand ready to assist you in every way possible, and we sincerely invite yo.~ to :use our services freely throughout. the year, wntes Emil T. Hofman, dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. in his first newsletter which freshmen receive today. 
I<'reshman Year of Studies, the college of record for all ND freshmen, has adopte~ sev~ral new proposals in its handling of onent.ahon, scheduling. counselling and problem solvmg. 
''Any freshman with difficulty this weekend can take care of. it at registration Tuesday at Stepan Center. If it is a serious problem, coun­sellors are available Sunday or Monday at ~he Freshman Year of Studies offic~,'' expl~ms Dean Hofman. Freshman Year offices are JUSt behind the Administration buiiding. 
coed situation 
Notre Dame's first female freshmen compose less than one tenth of the total freshman enrollment this year. The 125 female freshmen join about 240 other female transfers as Notre Dame's first women undergrads. 
Most of the women live in Badin and Walsh 
Halls although the total figure reflects some off­
campus women, some at St. Mary's College and 
some in the Sophmore Year Abroad program. 
The two on-campus residence halls have been 
renovated from the male dormitories they have 
served as since their construction. 
Freshman Year has established a special 
committee of consultants of junior girls to help 
the special orientation problems of the new 
women undergrads. Female freshmen will also 
participate in all the regularly scheduled 
orientation activities. 
advance preparation 
Orientation formally begins at 7:30 tonight with the official welcome for freshmen and their parents in the Athletic and Convocation Center 1ACC l. But all freshmen have already taken a battery of examinations for guidance and ad­vance placement. All have received t~eir f!rst semester schedules in advance of registPahon. 
"This is a tremendous improvement over past vears," Dean Hofman said. "We are way ahead ;,f things at this point." 
summer testing 
1 100 freshmen took the freshman examination package over the summer. The remainder were examined yesterday. The survey has three sections: Subject Matter Achievement Test, Psychological Survey and Student Activities Report. 
"The overall objective of this package is to provide the best program and the best coun­selling for the individual freshman," says Dean Hofman. 
The section entitled the Subject Matter Achievement Test is intended for counselling purposes. Dean Hofman states these tests will identify students with experience below or above average in certain areas. 
"These tests show experience, not. potential," cautions Hofman. "We are striving to get every student to perform up to his potential." 
Students with above average experience are invited to take another test, based on college level courses, which could qualify them for college credit by examination. 
"We are still honoring College Board Advance Placement Test results," points out Dr. Peter Grande, assistant dean of the Freshman Year of Studies. "In the College Board Tests. taken during the senior year of high school, a student usually needs a grade of three or four to receive college credit." 
personality survey 
A second section of the test package, the Psychological Survey, is an academic and career interest inventory. Its purpose is primarily guidance. 
"This includes a very mild personality test. It is not a clinical examination that attempts to identify abnormal behavior. It merely indicates 
academic  attitudes  and  motivations,"  Dr.  
Grande states.  
The  final  section,  the  Student  Activities  

Report, is an attempt to find the freshman's student interest in extra-curricular activities. The Freshman Year office has sent lists, based on this survey, to various university organizations and clubs. The organizations are asked to invite the interested freshmen. 
"We've found that most problems with fresh­men are not academic. They are adjustment­type problems resulting from a lack of in­volvement. We very much encourage freshmen to get involved in reasonable extra-curricular activities," Hofman says. 
activities and counselling 
Many services and activ~ties will be avail~ble to ND freshmen in the commg semester. Besides counselling services, Dean Hofman plans Friday night cook-outs from September 15 to November 
, 

Dean Hofman: "This is a tremendous im­provement over past years. We are way ahead of things at this point." 
10. He has also arranged a special program for freshmen parents on Saturday, October 28 before the Texas Christian football game. 
The Counselling Unit of the Freshman Year office has undergone several personnel changes, including the addition of two women counsellors. Karen Bergwall will counsel Arts and Letters intents and Paula Dawning will handle Student Workshops as well as counsel for various intents. 
"These women are sensitive to the special career interest of women and are prepared to handle them. But they are not exclusively for this purpose. They are well qualified to counsel every freshman in the area of their expertise,'' Hofman explains. 

counsellors 

other freshmen counsellors include: Fr. William Matthews--Business Administration intents, Conrad Naleway---Basic Science intents, Fr. William Presley--Arts and Letters intents, Dr. Neil Schilmoeller--Engineering intents and Laurence Sullivan--Preprofessional intents. 
Frehsman Year of Studies will continue to utilize specially selected ND seniors to do some of the counselling. In addition, one faculty member from each university department will serve as a consultant to the Freshman Year of Studies. 
One freshman problem that is not covered by the Freshman Year of Studies is the current housing squeeze. "I certainly hope all freshman are satisfactorily housed on campus," Hofman says: He refers all student residence inquiries to Fr. James Riehle, who as Dean ofStudentsoisin charge of all student residences this year. 

Saturday, September 2, 1972
the observer
2 




warld 
briefs 
(cl l!li2 New York Times by Harold C. Schonberg 
Ht')'kjavik. Iceland. Sept. 1 --Bobby Fischer, who for years has been saying he is the greatest, proved it today by becoming the chess cham­pion of the world and the first American ever to hold the title. He won it when Boris Spassky of the Soviet Union did not show up for the adjourned game scheduled to start today at 2:30p.m. Instead, Spassky telephoned his resignation to the referee, Lothar Schmid. Schmid received the call at 
12:50 p.m. 
Fischer. who at first refused to come to Exhibition Hall until he had secured a written statement of resignation from Spassky, was prevailed upon to go. He came on stage at 2:47, at which point Schmid addressed the audience of about 2,500. 
"Lddif:~s and Gentlemen," Schmid said. "Mr. Spassky has resigned by telephone at 12:50." At this point the audience broke into applause. l<'ischer. busy signing his score sheet, nodded thanks. "This is a traditional and legal way of resignation," Schmid continued. "Mr. l<'ischer has won this game No. 21, and he is the winner of the match." The final score was 12 1/z to 8Vz. 
The audience burst into rhythmic applause and rose. Fischer, still busying himself at the chessboard, again nodded, looked uncomfortable, glanced at the audience from the corner of his eyes, and rushed off. The audience slowly dispersed. 
"What a way for it to end," said a visiting American chess player with a 
pained look. He and his friends had come to the hall three hours early to 
stand in line and get a good seat. 
Shortly after Spassky made up his mind to resign in a lost position, 
Harry Benson, a photographer for Time-Life, ran into Spassky at the 
llotel Saga. Spassky was with his friends and psychologist, Nikolai 
Krogius. 
"There's a new champion," Spassky said to Benson. "I'm not sad. It's a sporting event and I lost. Bobby's the new champion. Now I must take a walk and get some fresh air." 
Benson phoned Fischer and told him the news. 
"You're sure it's official?" Fischer wanted to know. "Well, thanks." 
Spassky's sealed move would have been Bishop to Queen 7. Last night 
experts had guessed that move, and had worked intensively on it. The move lost in all variations, but any other move would have been just as bad. Spassky was in a mating net in one system of play, and in the other system Fischer's King Rook Pawn would have had a clear entry to the queening square. 
an c:ampus taday 

saturday 
7: 30--official welcome for freshmen, ace. 
sunday 
2:00-4: 00--meetings, freshmen and counselors, freshman year office 2:00-3:30--tri-military services, selective service and rotc information, ace. 4:00-5: 00--reception, administrative reception for parents only, cce. 
7: 00--dra rna, backstage, moreau Iittle theatre, for freshmen. 
8:30--mixer, tennis court match, regina hall tennis courts, smc, for freshmen. 
monday 
10: 00--ministry program, four years at notre dame--an experience in personal growth, sponsored by campus ministry, ace. 
2: 00--meeting, foreign year programs, cce. 
3:00--meeting, ujamma, engineering auditorium. 
tuesday 
8: 30-4: 30--orientation, freshman Iibrary orientation, library auditorium. 8:30-4: 30--registration, freshmen, stephan 
center. 8:30-4: 30--registration, upperclassmen, ace. 

at nd-smc: 

Varsity openings on debate squad 
The Notre Dame Debate Council has openings this year for fresh­men who are interested in an extensive travel schedule, development of one's speaking and analytical skills, and top flight tournament competition. 
Due to the fact that several
l active and successful seniors graduated from the Council lastI year, freshmen will become <:slJecially welcome. The debating r will be primarily on the varsity level, with freshmen included perclassmen; (4) although debate within the varsity unit at a very requires much time and effort, early stage of the year. most freshmen in the past have 
Any interested freshman must had little difficulty in maintaining note several points: (1) he or she ' a high scholastic standing while 
must have had extensive high school debate experience; (2) limited scholarship monies will be available to freshmen who demonstrate need and a willingness to debate. (3) more extensive scholarship aid is of­fered to active members as up-participating in debate. 
Ifyou are interested in becoming a member of the Council either Mr. Norman Lerum at 6129 or come to the first organizational meeting on Thursday, Sept. 7, in Room 2C of the Student Center at 6:30pm. 
A SOUND 
OFFER 
Make money "repping" an Ohio-based distributor of famous name audio and stereo equipment on your campus. Everybody likes music, so your job is really easy. You run your own thing and earn good bread if you do it right. We think this is a damn good offer, and we'll back it up. It's more than just a sales job......it's a guarantee of an exclusive franchise on your campus. You get all the action yourself. And you'll get our help every step of the way. No investment required. 
Interested? ? ? WRITE TODAY. P.O. Box ~6167 We'll be in touch. Bedford Heights, Ohio 4~1~6 




Welcome Freshmen! 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Located on the Campus is Ready To Serve You 
"Dependable Quality At Students' Prices" 
Text Books-New & Used Paperback Books School Supplies Drawing Instruments Drawing Supplies Stationery Typewriters Expert Radio & Typewriter repair Cameras & Film 
Typewriters For Rent ­Notre Dame Jackets Sportswear Monogram Blankets Toilet Articles Desk Lamps Religious Articles Jewelry & Class Rings Radios & Records 
Rental May Apply Toward the Purchase of Your Own Machine 
I 
... 


350 beds short
(THE OBSERVER] 
1 


Frosh bed squeeze 


Freshmen cramped 
by Mike O'Hare Observer Staff Writer 

Among the several problems Saturday, September 2, 1972 Page 3 that incoming freshmen will en­counter this year is a shortage of 

beds on campus. 
Consequently, the class of '76 will .find itself living in hall lounges, basements, and study rooms. Study lounges in Flanner, the basement of Farley and the guest lounges of Cavanaugh and Zahm are some of the places where this year's freshmen will be housed. 
Fr. James Riehle, dean of students and in charge of student housing, explained that only 50 students are living in cramped housing, not taking into con­sideration the basements and lounges. He described crowded housing as three room suites that usually house four freshmen which will now contain six freshmen, and two room suites that normally hold three freshmen which this year house four freshmen. 
Fr. Riehle stated that the three room suites with six freshmen, and the two room suites containing four freshmen will receive top priority in being relocated as empty beds are discovered on campus. Students living in study lounges in Flanner. Cavanaugh and Zahm are next on the priority list of relocation. Fr. Riehle stated that the crowded housing situation would not affect upperclassmen. 
Began in June 

Dr. Robert Ackerman, vice­president of student activities, traced the housing problem back to 
this past June when the University discovered that it would have 350 more freshmen than it had beds. The problem of finding beds for 350 freshmen resulted in the University exploring several alternatives, such as housing 
II • • • a test of the 
students at the LaSalle Hotel, St. Mary's College, Moreau Seminary and even mobile homes. However each of these possibilities were 
II rejected for various reasons. At this point the University sent
co.m.munity spirit • • • postcards to upperclassmen concerning the housing squeeze. Upperclassmen were asked if they were returning to the University, if they would like to live off-campus, or if they would agree to let a freshman live temporarily in their room. More than 4000 students 
responded to the questionnaire, with 1,000 stating that they would be willing to accept a freshman as a roommate. 
However, according to Dr. Ackerman, the University felt that the questionnaire was misun­derstood by many students and that the results were misleading. 
It was then decided to go through the residence halls on campus to determine where the incoming freshmen could be housed. The result was the conversion of lounges and basements into fresh­man housing. 
Two Points of Dilemma 
Dr. Ackerman expressed what he considered to be two important points concerning the housing dilemma. He pointed out that, at a time when most universities are having trouble getting students to live on campus, Notre Dame is experiencing an opposite trend."! think this says something about community life here at Notre Dame." 
Dr. Ackerman also emphasized that the overcrowding is not a direct result of coeducation. It is rather because of the decreased number of upperclassmen wishing to live off-campus. Although the overcrowding is hopefully tem­porary for less than a year,Dr. Ackerman expects complaints from students and parents. However, he sees the unfortunate overcrowding situation as a "test of the community spirit at Notre Dame." 


Saturday, September 2, 1972
the observer 
'A turning point•••' 
St. Mary's incorporates 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 
The most momentous step in recent St. Mary's history since the scrapping of merger plans was taken this summer with the in­corporation o the college separate frm the C.S.C. sisters. 
The move was lauded by President Edward Henry, who called it " ...a turning point for the Holy Cross order, indicating a change in philosophy with their acceptance of lay persons as partners in the management of St. Mary's." 
The new Board of Regents, according to Henry, was so named "to distinguish it from what it was before." Headed by Sister M. Katherine Francis Ford, C.S.C. from Washington, the board is comprised of nine lay persons, six nuns, and one priest. The previous arrangement was seven nuns, one 
priest, and five lay persons. 
Membership in the new board is flexible, and may now grow to up to forty mmbers. President Henry speculated that it would ultimately reach that limit, but only over "a long period of time." For the first time, faculty and students have each been alloted one represen­tative with full privileges. The student representative appointed by Dr. Henry is Jean Seymour St. Mary's student body president. 
Henry stated that the representative need not be the SBP, and hoped that in the future elections will be held for the position. The faculty member has not yet been selected; nominations and balloting will take place soon after the school year opens. Board membersip will be rotated, with members initially assigned to one, two, or three year terms. 
Henry was optimistic in his outlook for the coming year. 
"The main thrust this year will be our planning effort," he said. "We want to act, but it will be deliberate acton." 
Among immediate goals, Henry listed the reduction of rigid 
Student run activities lor freshman orientation 
A Monday afternoon "field day" highlights innovations in this year's student-directed Freshman Orientation Program including unstructured softball and touch football games at 1:30 pm on the An Tostal fields between Holy Cross Hall and U.S. 31 and a bike hike at 3 p.m. 
Other changes mentioned by Orientation Coordinators Dave Caruso and Dan Schipp include the workshop for hall orientation personnel and a "comprehensive evaluation" of the various campus programs. 
Caruso and Schipp said that the evaluation will be more detailed 
Error in frosh orientation pamphlet 
The booklet entitled "Freshman Orientation Information" contains one slight error concerning Sunday masses at Sacred Heart. The published mass times are for masses downstairs in Sacred Heart Parish. Other times for masses upstairs in the Sacred Heart Church are Saturday 5:15 pm and Sunday at 9:30 am, 10:45 am and 12:15 pm. 
I 
I;
l 
Caruso: Freshman orientation will be much more extensive than previous programs. 
than previous such programs and may include a 50-item question­naire to be completed by freshmen and hall orientation workers. The campus coordinators hope this questionnaire will provide greater 
continuity than last year's  brief  
quiz.  
The  workshop  for  hall  coor­ 

dinators is aimed, according to Schipp, at establishing a program "not so structured that it's for­ced." Schipp said that the hall coordinators are encouraged to approach freshmen on a "friend­ship level." 
All Notre Dame and St. Mary's frosh are encouraged to join in the fun Monday afternoon. 
requirements and the initiation of 

experimental programs. He indicated he was "pleased with the pressive attitude of students toward experimental education and proposed new majors." 
"Changes cannot come over­night," Henry remarked, "but the processes have been created so that changes can be effected. That is the first and, I believe, the most important step of all." 
Henry urged student par­ticipation in future planning processes of the college, and ex­pects significant differences as early as spring. An emphasis has been set on teamwork and in­volvement, with the final product that of the "entire" community. 
"If this year is not a complete success," Henry told an RA workshop last week, "it will be your fault." 

NEED A CHEST OF DRAWERS? 
BUY IT UNPAINTED ••• SAVE 1/2 OR MORE! 
HOW ABOUT A RUG? 
BtG SAVINGS ON ALL SIZES! 
Complete Selection of 
NEWEST STYLES AND COLORS! 

JUST ABOUT EVERYTHING IN BOOKCASES, CHESTS, RECORD CABINETS, END TABLES ••. YOU NAME ITI 

"SERVING NOTRE DAME SINCE 1948" 
WILLIAM'S 
RUGS and UNPAINTED FURNITURE AND NOTRE DAME STUDENT UNION 


FREI! DELIVERY
AT THE OLD FIELDHOUSE 

259-5243 288-2181 
also at 2609 SOUTH MICHIGAN STREET, SOUTH BEND and 1217 EAST McKINLEY (U.S. 20), MISHAWAKA 
ST. JOSEPH BANK & TRUST COMPANY 
On the plaza at Michigan & Jefferson Streets, South Bend, Indiana 46601 


FRESHMEN! 
Open a checking account at the St. Joe Bank and get a handsome checkbook with the ND monogram 
emblazoned in gold on the cover. You'll also get an all weather poncho featuring the ND monogram. Visit our main office downtown at Michigan and Jefferson, or any of our branches, and open your account soon. 

I"S'"T"'O"P""""""T"H"E""""""'P'R"E"S"'S"E~S11 
I (I bet you've always wanted to say that!) Well----You might just get your chance. I I Join The Observer I IWe need staff members in: 
------1 
Inews•****photography 
E d · d·t .
Ipro u~t~on..·e I or.la 1 IadvertISing....... typing 
General staff a!ld 

new staff meet1ng
Thursday 7:30 2-D LaFortune 
I.."""""""'"""""""""'"'""""""""""'"""""""""""""""'"""""'"'""'....""~"IID""'"UIU'uu!......._ S t u dent Cente 
-------------------···--··--­
.. -·----...--.... ·-·--·~·._~-------·-··· .-----'----·--------· .. 
----·---·­
Saturday, September 2, 1972 the observer 
Notre Dame hails first women as under rads 

by Jerry Lutkus Observer News Editor 
More than 300 women will register Tuesday, September 5, heralding a new era of un­dergraduate education at the University of Notre Dame. 
The 300+ women will include 125 first year students and 240 up­perclass transfer students. In­cluded in the 240 transfers are 211 former St. Mary's students, 24 SMC seniors in the Business Ad­ministration program who are residing at SMC, and women participating in the Sophmore Year Abroad program. 
The University has prepared Badin and Walsh Halls as their living quarters. The renovations of the halls have cost an estimated $140,000. 
Administrative changes have also prepared the way for the women. Sr. John Miriam Jones has been named Assistant to the Provost. Her direct duties will be to coordinate all coed activities, but she stresses that her job will not be exclusively limited to contact with women. 
Fr. James T. Burtchaell, 
Provost, defines Sr. Miriam's role 
as "the most important person who 
has to worry about coeducation." 
All of this "very much excites" 
Sr. Miriam for she finds the 
position "undefined" and it gives 
her "the opportunity to create the 
job." 

Sr. Miriam: The most important 
person who has to worry about 
coeducation. 
Sue Roberts, a member of the Advisory Committee on Coeducation, has also been added to the Administration. She will serve on Sr. Miriam's staff. 
The new rectors of Badin and Walsh Halls are Kathy Cekanski and Joanne Szafran. Ms. Cekanski is a third year law student from Alexandria, Va. Ms. Szafran is from Lowell, Mass. She is a graduate student in history, and a former hall director of Holy Cross Hall (SMC). 
Sr. Jane Pitz is the newest member of the campus ministry team. She also will serve as the assistant rector of Walsh Hall. Sr. 'Susan Bennett has been named to the post of assistant rector of Badin Hall. 
A Pleasurable Addition 
Administrators expressed great pleasure with the addition of women to Notre Dame. Dr. Robert Ackerman, director of student activities, claimed that "the purpose of Notre Dame is to educate and coeducation becomes part of that purpose." 
Fr. William Toohey, director of campus ministry, hopes that coeducation will "do much to humanize the place." He noted that "it will contribute to the goal that I think is crucial, that Notre Dame can offer 4 years of human growth." 
Fr. Burtchaell said that coeducation will "provide more day to day companionship for men and women students. Friendships will be more frequent, more realistic, and more humanized." 
Ms. Cekanski viewed the situation in much the same light. "It will make the University much more humanized. It's always been seen as a rah-rah, football school and now it's getting with it. It's more of a realistic living situation," she continued. "An all male institution is totally unrealistic." 
Follows Recommendations 
The changes the University 
made followed closely the 
recommendations submitted by 
the Advisory Committee on 
Coeducation last May. The com­
mittee was a mixture of students, 
faculty, and administrators and 
their report has served as a 
blueprint for eoeducation. 
The Provost reported that each 
administrative office responded to 
the report on their own. But he 
noted that they "had to reply to me 
all summer as they responded 
point by point to the committee's 
recommendations." 
Fr. Burtchaell said that he was 
"very impressed with the report 
and we complied with most of its 
recommendations.,; 
The committee and the Ad­
ministration differed on only one 
obvious point and that was the 
health services for women. Despite 
the committee's recommendation 
to supply an on-campus 
gynecologist, the Administration 
decided that gynecological 
problems fell within the bracket of 
specialized medical services. 
In its stead, the University has 
\. 
"Come in and get acquainted" 
1 mile No. of 
241 us 31 Notre Daine 
272-7510
~ndo~:S 
SPAniSH GUITARS J-..... 
-
GUITARS 
imported from Spain for the discriminating buyer others $19.95 and up for beginners 
G U IT A R M lJ SIC--STRINGS--ACCESSORIES 
RECORDS Latest LP's and 45's---all discount priced 
PHONOS have your needle checked FREE 
TAP£5--CASSETTES 
FILM-PHOTOFINISHING 
established the same torm of referral service that they have for any other type of specialized medicine. The Infirmary will refer the women to gynecologists in South Bend. 
The Administration noted that a "wait and see" attitude would have to prevail in regards to many of the possible conflicts. If a gynecologist should become a necessary campus facility then one would be provided. 
(continued on page 12) 

-BICYCLES­MIDDLE WEIGHTS LIGHT WEIGHTS RACING 3 SPEED--S SPEED--10 SPEED--TANDEMS AmericanWE SERVICE MORE THAN JapaneseALL MAKES 150 ON French DISPLAYIMPORTED & English $42.00 to 410.00DOMESTIC Italian BICYCLE CENTER OPEN MONDAY 'TIL 8:30 PM Closed Sat. Sept. 9 and Mon. Sept. 18 Phone 287-1623 Dally 9:30 'til 5:30 1437 Portage Ave.  
FRESHMEN WELCOME TO NOTRE DAME Rockne, rvy, Huddle, Lines, Dome, Adviser, Bookstore, Friends, Circle: The first weeks will be hectic, exciting and demand a great degree of adjustment on your part Plan now for a few quiet, serene moments by leasing a 4.6 cubic ft. (the NO legal limit) REFRIGERATOR Pushbutton defrosting. FREE delivery, maintenance, pickup. All for LESS than you expect. CALL 259-2242 291-5676 From ESLINGER'S: Proudly Serving the Notre Dame Community  


NEWREPUBUC BOAnNG 8 mos. $6.50 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.50 1 yr. (48 iss.) $10.00 (1 yr. Reg. $7.00 (1 yr. Reg. $14.00 1 yr. newsstand $9.00) 1 yr. newsstand $24.00) 
SKIING REDBOOK 1 yr. (7 iss.) $2.00 1 yr. (12 iss.) $2.88 2 yrs. $4.00 2 yrs. $5.76 (1 yr. Reg. $4.00 (1 yr. Reg. $3.95 1 yr. newsstand $4.50) 1 yr. newsstand $7.20) 
MODERN BRIDE STEREO REVIEW 1 yr. (6 iss.) $2.00 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.50 (1 yr. Reg. $4.00 (1 yr. Reg. $7.00 1 yr. newsstand $6.00) 1 yr. newsstand $7.20) 
POPULAR ELECTRONICS CAR & DRIVER 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.00 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.50 (1 yr. Reg. $6.00 (1 yr. Reg. $7.00 1 yr. newsstand $6.00) 1 yr. newsstand $7.00) 
PLAYBOY PSYCHOLOGY TODAY 1 yr. (12 iss.) $8.50 1 yr. (12 iss.) $6.00 (1 yr. Reg. $10.00 (1 yr. Reg. $12.00 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) 
NEW YORKER JET 1 yr. (52 iss. )$6.00 6 mos. (26 iss.) $5.50 (1 yr. Reg. $12.00 9 mos. (38 iss.) $7.50 1 yr. newsstand $26.00) 1 yr. (52 iss.) $10.00 
APARTMENT IDEAS 0 yr. Reg. $12.00 
2 yrs. (8 iss.) $3.00 1 yr. newsstand $18.20) (2 yrs. Reg. $5.00 BRIDE'S MAGAZINE 2 yrs. newsstand $8.00) 1 yr. (8 iss.) $3.97 VOGUE (1 yr. Reg. $4.00 1 yr. (20 iss.) $6.50 1 yr. newsstand $8.00) (1 yr. Reg. $10.00 READER'S DIGEST 1 yr. newsstand $15.00) 1 yr. (12 iss.) $2.50 SPORT (1 yr. Reg. $4.97 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.50 1 yr. newsstand $6.00 ) 
(1 yr. Reg. $6.00 ESQUIRE 1 yr. newsstand $7.20) 14 iss. $5.00 VIUAGE VOICE (1 yr. Reg. $8.50 1 yr. (52 iss.) $5.00 .1 yr. newsstand $14.00) (1 yr. Reg. $7.00 1 yr. newsstand $13.00) 
FLYING 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.50 (1 yr. Reg. $7.00 1 yr. newsstand $9.00) 
MADEMOISELLE 9 mos. $2.65 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.50 (1 yr.' Reg. $6.00 1 yr. newsstand $7.20) 
POPULAR PHOTOGRAPHY 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.50 (1 yr. Reg. $7.00 1 yr. newsstand $9.00) 
ROLUNG STONE 20 iss. $7.00 (1 yr. Reg. (26 iss.) $10.00 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) 
SATURDAY REVIEW OF: THE ARTS THE SOCIETY SCIENCE EDUCATION 
Each title 1 yr. (13 iss.) $6.00 
(Each title 1 yr. Reg. $8.00) NEW YORK MAGAZINE 1 yr. (52 iss.) $5.00 (1 yr. Reg. $8.00 1 yr. newsstand $26.00) 
HARPER'S MAGAZINE 1 yr. (12 iss.) 8 iss. $2.84 (1 yr. Reg. $8.50 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) 
COUNTRY MUSIC 1 yr. (12 iss.) $6.00 (1 yr. newsstand $7.20 (Note: New subscribers get record album from publisher at no additional cost.) 
COMMENTARY 1yr. (12 iss.) $5.00 (1 yr. Reg. $10.00 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) 
McCALL'S 1 yr. (12 iss.) $2.88 2 yrs. $5.76 (1 yr. Reg. $3.95 1 yr. newsstand $6.00) 
GOLF DIGEST 11 iss. $3.97 (1 yr. Reg. $7.50 1 yr. newsstand $8.25) 
CYCLE 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.00 
(1 yr. Reg. $6.00 
1 yr. newsstand $6.00) 
HOUSE & GARDEN 1 yr. (12 issU4.00 (1 yr. Reg. $7.00 1 yr. newsstand $9.00) 
PENTHOUSE 1 yr. $8.00 (1 yr. Reg. $10.00 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) 

TV GUIDE 28 iss. $2.94 56 iss. $5.88 (1 yr. Reg. (52 iss.) $7.00 1 yr. newsstand $7.80) 
GLAMOUR 9 mos. $2.65 (1 yr. Reg. $6.00 1 yr. (12 iss.) $3.50 1 yr. newsstand $7.20) 
ATLANTIC MONTHLY 8 mos. (8 iss.) $3.50 1 yr. (12 iss) $5.25 (1 yr. Reg. $10.00 1 yr. newsstand $12.00) 

rPI;~Pri~~W)-------------------------­
Name ...............................................................................................................
TO ORDER: 

I Mailing Address........ .. ..................................
Simply fill in your name, address, school and magazines desired in the ICity ........................ .. ... State ............................... Zip ......... . 
space below. Should you move during ISchool ........ ........ .......................... Yr. Studies End ...... .. your subscription period, just inform 
I 

MAGAZINES TERM PRICE
the publisher via address change in· 

formation found in each magazine. 1......................................................................................................................... 
D Pay now for fastest order-process· 

1................................................... . 
i ng service. Return this information 

form with payment (payable to EBSCO) I···························································································· .............................. in your own envelope to the address I Please indicate if renewal. TOTAL AMOUNT OF ORDER $ ......................... . below ... or ... 
EBSCO READERS' SERVICED We will bill you later. Just fill out I P. 0. Box 1943 Birmingham, AI. 35201 a and mail this form to this address: I (Offer good in U. S. only. Publisher prices subject to change.) :z. 
•

How to surv1ve at Notre Dame 
A first look at how the 


University really runs 
By the time you read this, if you have not already been welcomed to death, the saturation point is not far away. Even as freshmen, though, you have already en­countered your first taste of the problems of the University com­munity. This taste may be bitter indeed if you are one of the 350 freshmen living in the hastily prepared housing-resurrected hall lounges and converted study rooms--designed to accommodate the freshmen caught in the on­campus bed shortage. 
The knee-jerk response to a problem as critical as seriously overcrowded dormitories is to scream--loudly. Unfortunately, bitching will neither rectify the problem nor insure that it will never happen again. The bed shortage is, more than anything else, a product of changing University priorities that is long overdue. 
For the Record 
Even though the process of laying blame is not very productive in this case, it is necessary to clear the air and eliminate many mistaken notions about the source of the error. First, the problem did not originate in the admissions office. In spite of the nearly un­predictable conditions of the first year of coeducation, 1631 freshmen planned to enroll as of Se.ptember 1. The admissions target was 1625. Since there are usually about five "no-shows," enrollment ought to be about 1626, which is as nearly perfect as you could expect. 
The other possible source of error is the Office of Student Residence which was a separate office in 1971­72 but was re-incorporated under the Dean of Students over the summer. In the two years that Fr. Thomas Chambers served as director of student residence he made a commitment to the students that included the promise that no one would be forced to move off-campus. The first year everything worked fine; each hall was able to house its quota of fresh­men. 
Now comes the hitch. The past two years have seen quantum improvements in the quality of hall life, including large measures of self-government and the en­trenchment of the stay hall program. Chambers avidly promoted these developments. Though he was at times too zealous (if your Resident Assistant was around last year, ask him about the RA orientation), the changes that resulted from Chamber's advocacy of improved quality in hall life made students even more reluctant to leave the communities they had built. 
The crunch came when Badin and Walsh were converted to female dormitories. The enhanced quality of hall life and the in­stitutionalized difficulties of moving off-campus combined to cause the great majority of displaced students to stay on­campus. Chambers held to his promise. None of these students were forced to move off-campus. As a result the on-campus housing was seriously overdrawn. In the middle of the summer the newly re­organized Office of the Vice­President of Student Affairs faced its first crisis. 
Running Notre Dame 

Before any concrete suggestion can be made, a fundamental un­derstanding of the generic qualities of the University is necessary. 
Bureaucracy is a loaded word. Everyone realizes, however, that bureaucracy itself is not harmful. Rather, the only way to run any large institution is by means of an efficient bureaucracy. Disagreements, then, should center around the goals of the bureaucracy, not the fact of its existence. 
Briefly, this "is how the depart­ments of the University that most directly effect students are run. The Office of the President is small--Fr. Hesburgh. Decisions rarely reach this office unless the choice is between two nearly equal options. This is not meant to imply that Hesburgh is unconcerned with student problems. Simply put, in twenty years as the President of the University Hesburgh has been able to fill the critical decision­making posts, the Vice­presidencies, with men whose judgement he respects. 
Ninety percent of the decisions affecting students are made in two offices-The Provost and the Vice­president of Student Affairs. As provost, Fr. James Burtchaell is the second ranking officer of the University. Although the Provost's biggest responsibilities are in the area of academic affairs, Burt­chaell has had a major role in many student life decisions. 
This may change. During the summer Philip Faccenda, Vice-
Saturday, September 2, 1972 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
News: 283-1715 Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, EditoriaI: 283-8661 on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the Business: 283-7471 individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
' 
president and General Counsel, assumed the position of Acting Vice-president of Student Affairs. His first move was to centralize the office and establish more specific areas of responsibility for his assistants. When Fr. Thomas Blantz held the Acting Vice­presidency, 53 people were responsible directly to him. Only seven people are directly responsible to Faccenda. He plans to use them as his central decision­making staff. 
Faccenda's other major change was moving the Student Affairs office to the Administration building where it belongs. Now the VP is able to function as something more than a glorified task master. 
What to do 
Before developing a specific plan, several aspects of the necessary student power must be distinguished. Access is the ability to see the person making the decision. Influence is the ability to steer that decision in a favorable direction. Clout is the power to make a decision stick. 
Fact 1: Except in the academic area, no student has clout in anything but the most trivial decision. 
Fact II: Recent changes in the Provost and Student Affairs offices have created a number of middle administrative positions to which students have high access. The most noticeable of these are the Director of Student Activities, Dr. Robert Ackerman, · and the Assistant to the Provost, Sr. John Miriam. 
Both of these people are new to their posts although Ackerman was the Assistant Dean of Students last year. If the positions work as ex­pected, students should have greatly improved influence in many important decisions. 
But this is not enough. In order to prevent another housing crisis, students should be placed on the committee which makes the final decision on which dormitory will be converted to a female dorm next year and how the displaced students will be housed. Freshmen who lived in the makeshift housing this year should also be included. 
In the final analysis this ap­
proach is the most promising. It 
would give students some clout in 
crucial student life questions which 
must be solved in the upcoming 
year. 
John Abowd 
Freshman Issue Staff 
Editor-in-Chief: John Abowd 
Executive Editor: Don Ruane 
Nite Editor: Joe Abell 

Nite Staff: Anthony Abowd, Maria Gallagher, Mike O'Hare, Jerry Lutkus and Becky 
Typist and Nite Controller: Joe Wilkowski 
Business Manager: Dan Thornton 

Advertising Staff: John Kloos, Joe But!er, John Rumbach 


Saturday, September 2, 1972 the observer 
7 
'If you were elected King... 

~ ' . .:·­'·. ·.· 

..·• :,t t 
..-.. 

...._ ....
·. ·.. 
..· ' 
'". r ·. , 

-·:· ·.· .. ~-­
.. 

·: ... ~.. .'. :
1 ~ rf.J ~i . . ..··•· : . · ... ... 
' 
.... :
...W·0 U Id r( t y,;..) U . N Q lJ ) )U mom to k.1ow a':l a •oL it 
(send The Observer home) here's how ~ 
-

illr;:;::::::~=~=======::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;;::;:;::~=~=====~===~:=====::::::::=:===========::l_.__ ,,."","''''''"''""'"""-""--;;~---·~·..i
.. ,.... 
:-,.­
,.,.;
Name ~ 
---------·-· Address__________ ~ .... s t b ;;(
I en y ~ .. I ' ~~~~ BDK Q I 
.... Addres.s 
..

I NOTRE DAME, IND. 
Renewal?D New subscription~: 
.... 4&55& 
~;t:::.:::;:;:;::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::?.:::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::~.::::.::;:;:;::::::::;:;:::::::::::::::;:;:;:::::;:;<::;::;::;i;:::_:::y.»~:~·Xc!i!lfrS:Q8F: 



the observer Saturday, September 2, 1972
8 

America!Is Children


The Ghost 
of Bodin jerry lutkus 
"('o-t•dncation didn't change our projt•t•lt•d irnagl' and hasn't changed our t•omm ilnwnt--to preparl' Christan leaders for sot'it•tv. Woman's role in society is bt•t•oming -im-rpasingly public and we must ht• alu111t t•dm·ating woml'n as well as men. This won't t•hang«> tht' inhl'rl'nt character of tht· l'niHrsity.....but it will add something to tht· l'nivt••·sity Jll'rsonality .... " 
During a long week of interviews, a l'nivPrsity administrator told me that and I think better than any quotation I scribbled onto my pad, it exemplifies my opinion of ccH•ducalion. 
The women coming to Notre Dame bear a striking resemblance to the men already tlwn•. They are spirited individuals and have a high regard for team competition. their educational backgrounds are excellent. 
So. what's the big difference? Sr. Jane Pitz, the new female member of 
Campus Ministry said it well. "It's the real world now .... there's always been a crying need for women around here." 
Fr. William Toohey, head of the Ministry, also said it quite succinctly, "It's a fair slice of the real world. Perhaps now we can see the normal and appropriate interchange of men and women." 
I tink all of those sum it up quite well. Notre Dame is finally opening its eyes (and doors l t the reality of the world around us.•The world that is beyond the border of Angela Blvd. and Juniper Rd. is not all-male as some might lead you to believe. It is not the exclusive domain of those males we see around us. It is a world of mixture. Men and women, together, competing, loving, touching, arguing, learning ... Together! They are not separate, they are part of the same world. And traditional Notre Dame has finally brought itself to see that. 
Many say that tradition is dead now that 




OBSERVER 
COMMENT 

Ms. r:~ivinrJs 
maria vallavher 

Evolution 
Becoming is superior to being. Paul Klee 
The facade of almost every college campus is pretentious: one gets the im­pression that tradition is the cornerstone of every building; ivy snakes gracefully up the sides or stately residence halls which house a host or scholarly ghosts; alumni and alumnae perpetuate an oral tradition of fond memories and glowing praises; and the inevitable bells are an echo of decades long past. Pretentiousness was once a universal and almost integral component or the l'Oilege student body as well, complete with perpPndicular noses. vast wardrobes, and a lru11kful of conversational ploys that were y1·ars in the acquiring. 
l\t•edless to say, limes have changed--and thank God! I personally couldn't see white gloves making the jaunt to Michigan, or ll'earing skirts (no matter how long!) t brave the ferocious Indiana winters. Neither could I see myself carefully rt>lwarsing my lines before leaving for roiiPge in preparation for my "role." The outside facades as well have fallen victim to thl' new. simpler tradition as their majesty
• is dJalh•nged by sleeker. more imaginative, more experimental architecture. 
The new "college image" is no longer a captive in the fetters of its own tradition; it proudly acknowledges its past but does not allow itself to become bogged down or hindered in its preparation for the future. Likewise, the student today more than ever before is an individual and asks judgement on his or her own merits rather than riding on the coattails of a successful family. In­dependence characterizes him or her; the security or a logical sequence of artificiality is no longer needed. The "old" college concept was that of a bastion of striped-tie conservatism against a shockingly liberal world; the "new" concept is one of an in­novator that proudly leads the march 'of progress toward an uncertain end. This dramatic, and necessary, upheaval was made possible only through the triumph of openmindedness over closedmindedness, and the general result appears to be a happy marriage of tradition and experimentation. 
St. Mary's is no exception. After 127 years of competent control by the Holy Cross order, the recent merger struggle and more recent incorporation have shaken the very foundations of the institution and evoked an unprecedented community response. Yet she has emerged the stronger for the ordeal, realizing that she need not be destroyed by change, but could merely yield to its in­fluence. She is now characterized by in­dependence and a willingness not only to observe new ideas but to tty them. For a 127 year old institution, this is quite difficult, and in view of the circumstances, the transition could be called relatively smooth. 
The student at St. Mary's today, especially the freshman, must first of all leave herself vulnerable to new ideas and ideals. Only then can she grow. Perhaps your four years spent here will produce a thorough shake-up in your values, or only a subtle one. If it produces none at all, then you have wasted the greatest opportunity for self-examination and self-development in your lifetime. 
St. Mary's has a great deal to offer you, and vice versa. With the new goals set by President Henry, she is about to embark on a marvelous adventure of growth that can be enhanced by a student body willing to grow with her. 
But more than the school, you will find that the people you live and share your life with contribute the most to finding a self you were never before aware existed. Forming opinions of your own and asserting them without fear can help contribute to the most viable community possible, but only if the sharing is among mutually receptive in­dividuals who do not regard these views as implacable. 
I hope you take advantage of St. Mary's resources, and return in equal measure. I hope that you will become proud of your part in her past and her future. And most of all, I hope you have the time of your life here. 
Notre Dame has gone co-ed. They say the 
University will never be the same. I image 
that many an old alumni's heart skipped a 
beat when their hallowed Notre Dame made 
the announcement. 

Well, please think about it. Tradition is a mighty and beautiful thing, it is a quantity around which legends are based. And many legends have been tied to Notre Dame because of its beautiful and remarkable tradition. But if a tradition, as beautiful and wonderful as it is, is lacking or falls short in someway, why should wemaintainit in the form that we find it? The tradition of the Dome, as great as it is, is really short because the Dome has neglected throughout the years to educate the other half of society. Women complement men and men complement women and together they form 
one. 

Women and men are equals in society, why sould they not be equal in education? At Notre Dame? 
Think of the traditions of Notre Dame that 
you've remembered. I lived in Badin 
Hall for two years. Now it is a female dorm. Some of the guys who lived around me were excited because one of them lived in the room that Alan Page lived in. <Page is now an All-Pro football player.) George Goettke reportedly drove a motorcycle down one of Badin's Halls. These kind of crazy traditions mean little to the women who are moving into there this year. Right now they are more concerned with how ugly the hall looks to them or how they are gonna fare on this campus or how minds of the girls who live there now. 
I can almost see all those old ghosts 
tramping out of the hall perhaps to take up 
residence with the Gipper in Washington 
Hall . They are ghosts of the past and they 
have been upended by the new tradition. 
There are no ghosts in Badin Hall now. 
They've all left for greener pastures. 
Some went to the Dome, some to the 
stadium, others to the Rock, and maybe 
some drifted back to the little cemetery by 
Holy Cross. They're gone and it's kind of 
sad. 

But give it time because soon there will be 
new ghosts. New ghosts created by tradition 
present, no longer by tradition past. There 
will be new residents of the beams and attics 
and corners of Badin Hall. Traditions built 
from the first woman Senator from 
Badin or the first woman SBP who lived 
there .... their spirits will traipse through the 
darkened halls at night and relive their 
ghostly existence. 

There will be new ghosts in Badin because there will be a new tradition, a good, healthy and proper tradition .... a tradition that should have started at Notre Dame years 
ago. 

M, that tradition that you think is destroyed at Notre Dame is actually not destroyed. It is simply enhanced, expanded. It is added to and given a dimension it's never seen before. No Notre Dame hasn't become just any other college because it is still Notre Dame. But it is a new Notre Dame. A new Notre Dame with some new tradition added to the old and some openings 
·they are goin~ to make that room in Badin for compatriots to keep company with the look liveable. There are all very much in the gnosts of ages past. 






,Movin' In ••• 


•••to the Dome 

----~-. ... ---·········· .... 

Saturday, September 2, 1972
10 the observer 
IIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMMIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII NllllllllII11111111111 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIINIINIHftllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllII II 111111111 II1111111111111111111111111111 
The following briefs are a con­one to two years' duration. After St. Mary's students will this year County mental health center. densation of the past summer at St. this trial period, those which prove hike the price for SMCers to one --The Board of Regents has Mary's: to have lasting value will be dollar, the regular adult rate. The appropriated about $25,000 for the 
processed through the regular other ACC facilities are open to all renovation of Regina Hall into a committee structure for possible Notre Dame men and women, but studentcenter. Air conditioning has--St. Mary's has received a permanent inclusion in the not to St. Mary's students. been installed on the first floor; abequest of one million dollars in curriculum. Such experimental --Sister Alma will be flying billiard table and stereo arethe will of Ms. Dympna Balbach ideas might consist of a totally new overseas sometime this month to planned for the basement. Dr.
('16, St. Mary's). The sum, "to be course; credit for internship work, explore possible programs abroad Henry has appointed an ad hocused at the discretion of the etc. This is in conjunction with in Spain and Ireland. President committee to study the recreationcollege," is the largest single gift President Henry's goal of more Henry has indicated strong sup-and social needs of the studnt body, 
SMC 
in SMC history. According to Jason progressive education at St. port of these new programs "if and additional space is beingLindower, Vice President of Fiscal Mary's. they can be offered at a alotted to meet these needs in HolyAffairs, the money has not yet been reasonable financial charge." Cross, LeMans, and Regina Hallsreceived by the college due to an --More fees: while the shuttle Sister Alma will also look into an where kitchen and exerciseIllinois state law which provides and the library are still free to exchange program with the equipment are being installed.
seven months to challenge a will. 
SMC studnts, the Rockne pool will Thomas More Institute in Tucson, Student government has set asideLindower said the Board of charge a fee this year to SMC Arizona, which might be offered a fund for hall-initiated projectsRegents has made no plans as yet women using the facilities. A between the fall and spring which will be available on demand.
briefs 
for investment or utilization of the spokesman for the Rock said the semesters iif the college adopts the --Campus ministry has moved its funds. 
University had not yet determined 4-1-4 year main office to first floor, Regina 
I 
--An "Office of Experimental what the cost would be, and it --Ms. Donna Ayres (SMC '71) has Hall. Each hall on campus has Programs" reporting directly to would be sometime next week been appointed new director of been assigned a member of the Academic Vice President has before it did. The ACC ice rink, housing at St. Mary's, replacng campus ministry to live in so that been created which will approve which last year charged fifty cents Diane Petrovich. Ms. Ayres, 24, counseling will be available on a 24­
short term experiments of from admission to both Notre Dame and formerly worked at the St. Joseph hour basis. 
~ 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 u11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 ~ 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
Changes in ne'W 'Wo.men's dor.ms
!­
tinuing on both buildings. Sinks and medicine cabinets were by Jerry Lutkus Badin and Walsh were both replaced. Wardrobes as well as a equipped with card lock doors so chest of drawers have been added 
Badin and Walsh residence halls that only the women can gain to each room. underwent extensive renovation admittance. Fire doors with In Walsh, the sinks were not over the summer to prepare them alarms have been installed on all replaced, but new spigots were for Notre Dame's first women added. The interior of the hall was
fire exits. undergraduates. Other security renovations in­painted. 
Fr. James Burtchaell, Provost, cluded floodlights on the outsides The Advisory Committee on estimated in February that the of the buildings and new fire Coeducation recommended that renovation would cost $140,000. The escapes. neither of the halls be renovated total cost of the renovation has yet In the interior of Badin, all of the such that they became inor­
to be released as work is con-walls were refinished and oainted. dinately feminine. Director of American National Bank 
Student Activities Robert Ackerman feels that the renovations complied with that. In particular he noted that neither 
the bank that's nearest you
hall was furnished with hair dryers. Sr. ·John Miriam Jones, the new 
---Located on the corner of
Assistant to the Provost, expressed her pleasure with the new Angela and Michigan Ave. facilities. "The girls who come here will pick up the Notre Dame 
flavor fast. They are not over ---Full service banking six days
feminized and both are available for a woman's personal touch." a week. 
Sr. Miriam also commented on this generation's move toward simplicity in their style of living. ---We have installed a bike rack for She claimed that Notre Dame is a 
your convenience. 
leader in that move. 
Both halls have also been sup­plied with kitchen and laundromat member FDIC facilities. 


The freshman Orientation freshman orientation oooklets Committee has published a new prepared by students at Princeton booklet called A Willingness to and Indiana University. Schipp Experience according to Dan called the Princeton publication Schipp, coordinator of the com­"excellent" and hoped that ND mittee. might be able to duplicate this 
The forty page publication, effort. which cost $800 to publish, was The coordinators started with prepared during the summer by some of the basic information in Schipp and Dave Caruso, the the Mooney booklet, which was committee's other coordinator. mainly social. They added an Both are residents of Keenan Hall. extensive section on academics 
Academics, social activities and and expanded the treatment of
• 
campus organizations are all clubs and organizations. discussed in the booklet. Schipp and Caruso would both 
"We tried to include practical like to make "orientation a year information and a fair view of what long affair." They plan to hold Notre Dame life is really like," group sessions to revise and extend Schipp said. He added that, "We the basic booklet to "cover every 
also tried to promote some op­facet of the University." timism. We didn't want the new student to think he had two strikes Financial limitations prevented against him as soon as he got the publication of enough booklets here." to provide one for each freshman 
Schipp and Caruso used three but one book per single, double and publications as models for their triple will be distributed on 
... 
pamphlet. The first was The Notre Saturday morning. Rooms ac­Dame Manual for Freshmen, a comodating more than three frosh booklet prepared by Don Mooney, will be provided with two copies. a cabinet member of the 197G-71 Badin and Walsh residents can student government and un­pick up their copies at the Rector's successful candidate for Student office. Distribution in the other Body President. halls will be handled on a door-tn 
The other two documents were door basis. 
Welcorne to ND Freshmen 
Tired of getting your hair wiped out? Do you have sick, tired, dam aged, frizzy sun-bleached or overly dry hair? 
Let us find out for you! Our shop's Hair Analysis Program works in conjunction with Redken Laboratories. Our trained barber­stylists study the corrective program designed for you. Your hair is 95 percent protein. Don't take it lightly or it will be just that. 
3 Barber Stylists to Service You 
Precision Cuts Blunt cuts Layer cuts English shag 

No waiting, all services done by appointment 

Phone today for a free hair analysis appointment 

Uhe WirWjammer 
HAIR STYLING FOR DISCRIMINATING MEN & BOYS 

1637 Lincoln Way West Ph. 232-6622 
CLOSED MONDAYS 



Saturday, September 2, 1972 the observer 1 1 



~ ~::«. 
("MON GUYS--Coach Ara Par-during last week's practice when seghian grimaces during Blue-freshmen were having problems Gold game. but it could have been with college football terminology. 
Domer in the Olympics 
Frosh look to varsity as Irish start 85th year 
Heavy practice for the Fighting Irish began bright and early Friday after six sessions of light, padless practice which opened last Tuesday. 
This is the 85th year that such viblence has been wrought upon the campus of Notre Dame, and only the second time that freshmen have competed for a spot on the traveling varsity squad in any playing capacity. preferably as a starter. 
Th~re are 32 frosh with football grant-in-aids, according to Sports Information Director Roger Valdeserri. But the freshmen, who can be recognized on the field by their white jerseys, are not only smart football-wise. There are two class valedictorians, and 12 members of their high school's chapter of the National Honor Society. 
Valdeserri said that it is too early for the coaches to tell if any mdividual frosh is varsity r'1aterial, but there should be some indication in the next two weeks "when they get the pads on." 
One problem that Head Coach · Ara Parseghian has foknd con­cerns terminology. The mentor's 
TIIA ALL FOLKS-NO'S highly 
touted defense machine has been 
All of the events at the Olympic Games in Munich, Germany, are important but the one that many Notre Dame track fans are especially interested in is the BOO­meter run, in which former Irish star Rick Wohlhuter is competin~. 
dilemma is that some freshmen seem to grasp the jargon but can't execute the plays, while others can't understand what is being said, but carry out the instructions. 
However, there is still hope, according to Parseghian, because "it is just a learning process." 
Drills during the three days of double sessions have concentrated mostly on running and con­ditioning, in accordance with the NCAA grace period, which requires a minimum of light practice to avoid serious injury to out of shape players. 
So far there have been no serious injuries during practicE). One freshman is in a local hospital with a knee injury suffered in a state all-star game. He chose to have Notre Dame's team doctors do the required surgery. 
The only other injury was a freak accident. Tight end Ed Bower, who broke a bone in his foot during the summer, was running a sprint when another player stepped on the foot and aggravated the injury. He will be out from 10 days to two weeks, according to Valdeserri. 
Freshmen first competed for varsity slots during the Korean emergency in 1954, when there were not enough football to 
rt.'duced to these three returning lettermen by graduation. They are 
Wohlhuter, a 1971 graduate of Notre Dame, captained the Irish track team his senior year and was the NCAA indoor titlist in the 800. 
The Olympic finals in the 800 are scheduled for Saturday, Sept. 2. 

go around. According to 
Valdeserri, there were 25 fresh­men out for the squad, and 18 lettered. 
The number one units for the opening of heavy practice look much the same as they did at the end of spring practice. Offense includes: Willie Townsend, Brian Doherty, and Mike Creaney at the ends; John Dampeer, Dave Casper and Herb Briick at tackle; Frank Pomarico, Tom Bolger and Gerry DiNardo at guard; Dave Drew at center; Cliff Brown and Tom Clements leading the fight at quarterback with stiff competition from Bill Nyrop and Pat Steen­berge; John Ciezkowski and Andy Huff in the follback slots; and Daryll Dewan, Eric Penick and Greg Hill at halfback. 
The defense includes: Mike 
Fanning, George Hayduck and Jeff 
Hein at ends; Dick Maciag and 
Greg Marx at tackle; Jim 
O'Malley,. Gary Potempa, Mike 
Webb, Tim Sullivan, Pat McGraw 
and Jim Musuraca as linebackers; 
and Reggie Barnett, Tim Rudnick, 
Ken Schlezes, and Mike Townsend 
as. the ·deep backs. 
Dampeer and Marx are the co­
captains of the '72 Irish squad. 
, co-captain Gre-g Marx. and Jim Musuraca. 
Frosh ball out, JVmay be in 
Freshman football appears to be 
out and Junior Varsity on its way 
in, according to Sports Information 
Director Roger Valdeserri. 
The development stems from the 
recent NCAA decision to allow 
freshmen to run, tackle, block and 
bruise with varsity teams each 
Saturday, and during the daily 
practice sessions. 
While the decision hasn't been 
made yet, Valdeserri said it will 
probably be in favor of JV football, 
noting that the plan is to follow the 
decision of the Big Ten schools. 
There will be at least five games, 
featuring a home and home series 
with Michigan State, and an away 
game with Tennessee, which might 
also become a home and home 
series. 
Reflecting on the rule change, 
Valdeserri said, "It's a stupid rule 
to begin with!" 
He claims the freshman year is a 
difficult time of adjustment in 
many ways, especially 
academically, and "especially 
here." "To involve them in the 
varsity program might be a little 
unfair," he added. 
However, Valdeserri was 
"surprised" by a small poll he took 
among 1954 players, who were the 
first freshmen allowed to don 
varsity cleats and chew up some 
turf. Most of the replies said it was 
a good experience, which helped 
them budget their time, placed 
them in a desirable position of 
competition and gave them a good 
deal of incentive to work harder. 
There were 25 players in 1954 and 
18 won monograms. Most said they 
would do it again, according to 
Valdeserri. 
Unfortunately, according to the 
information director, the situation 
may have been biased, because the 
1954 players were allowed to take 
summer courses before the season. 
The result was that they knew the 
routine, and had a head start on 
their classes. 
GRAND OLD IRISH--Jersey numbers represent the 85 years of Fighting Irish football to be marked this year. Representing tht.' years from 1887 to 1972 are <L 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
to R) Chuck Kelly, Ed Rauer, Timothy Rockne Hickey, Ron (ioodman and Gerry DiNardo. llichey is the son of Assistant Coach Rill Hickey. 
MICHAEL'S••• 
EXPERTS AT 
CONTEMPORARY 
STYLING 

STYLED FOR MORE CONTROL AND EASIER 
MANAGEMENT BETWEEN HAIRCUTS ... 
Complete line of services 
for the particular male 
Appointments if desired MICHAEL'S HAIR STYLING FOR MEN 272-7222 
18381 Edison 
lf2 mile east of campus. 




PITTSBURGH~PAINTS 
ND student discounts 
-30% off on Latex paint -15% off on unpainted furniture 
333 S. Michigan 289-2439 


Saturday, September 2, 1972
12 

the observer 
Administrative shake-up 
Faccenda lD• Student Affairs 
by Ed Ellis .Kev. James Flannigan, C.S.C.,  Fr. Shilts retains his title of  
Observer Associate Editor former rector of Dillon Hall, joined  Assistant Vice-President, but will  
the VPSA staff, having the halls  have new responsibilities. Ac­ 
University Vice-President and and rectors as his "area of central  cording to Faccenda, Shilts will  
General Counsel Philip J. Fac­concern,"according to Faccenda.  handle "general administrative  
eenda took charge of Notre Dame's Former housing director Rev.  work" and liaison with other  
Student Affairs Office this summer Thomas Chambers, C.S.C., took  departments, in addition to direct  
in a wholesale shakeup of Student over in June the position of  responsibility for the Infirmary  
Affairs personnel. Director of Student Activities,  and Psychological Services.  
In the biggest administrative formerly held by Rev. James  Dean of Students Rev. James  
reshuffling since the creation of Shilts, C.S.C., who is also rector of  Riehle, C.S.C., retains his old  
the office of Provost two years ago, Farley.  duties and adds those of Student  
Faccenda became Acting Vice­Chambers, however, resigned  Housing.  
President for Student Affairs for a late in the summer to pursue his  Under the new system, Resident  
one-year term, replacing retiring doctorate studies, and was  Assistants are no longer respon­ 
Vice-President Rev. Thomas replaced by former assistant Dean  sible to the Director of Student  
Blantz, C.S.C. Faccenda has in­of Students Dr. Robert Ackerman.  Housing, but only to their own  
stituted a series of changes that Ackerman, the only member of the  rectors. The rectors, in turn, are  
leaves Campus Ministry Director Notre Dame staff with professional  responsible to the Student Affairs  
Rev. William Toohey, C.S.C. as the training in student affairs ad­ Office. The old job of Housing  
- only member of the Student Affairs ministration, will deal with student staff with unchanged respon­activities such as Student  Director is now split between Fr. Riehle and Fr. Flanningan.  
sibilities. Government and Student Union.  Mrs. Jeanne Swartz joins the  
staff in an official capacity as  
Assistant to the Vice-President.  
Coed coznznittee  According to Faccenda, the wife of Economics Professor Thomas Swartz has worked for the  
recoznznendations  University in the past. He said the University, in her appointment, was merely recognizing an  
(continued from page 5) coeducation is basically the  existing situation.  
problem of education.Recommendations ---The committee regards it  The old Student Affairs office in LaFortune Student Center is now  
The committee's report cited imperative thai the University  occupied by Dr. Ackerman and  
four general recommendations to take positive steps to insure and  Dillon rector Rev. David Schlaver,  
which the University has ad­promote contact, communication,  C.S.C., newly appointed director of  
dressed itself: and co-operation between Notre  volunteer services. Faccenda is  
---Notre Dame should Dame and St. Mary's women.  operating from his Vice-President  
significantly increase the number Administration officials  and General Counsel office, 306  
of qualified women on the faculty responded affirmatively to all of  Administration Building.  
and include them in all ad­the recommendations, but some  Faccenda's appointment, an­ 
ministrative ranks; expres&ed confusion as to the final  nounced June 1, resulted from the  
---The University should try to recommendation.  failure of the Vice-Presidential  
avoid the dual pitfalls of over­Ackerman confessed that he  search Committee to find a  
solicitude for women students on really didn't know where the  replacement for Fr. Blantz. The  
one hand, and neglect of their situation between St. Mary's and  committee of which Faccemda is a  
particular problems on the other. Notre Dame stands. "We've tried  member, has been operating since  
-The committee wants to use to maintain communication on the  the middle of last year, and has yet  
this opportunity of making Student Affairs level. The co-ex  to settle on a nominee. Faccenda  
recommendations concerning programs are being looked into  said he is confident a qualified  
women at Notre Dame to remind again, but the communication is in  person will be found some time  
the community that the problem of the student's hands."  this semester.  

NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY's THEATRE announces TRYou:rs for James Goldmanls THE LION IN WINTER Wed., Sept. 6 at 7:30 p.m. Thurs,. Sept. 7 at 7:30p.m. Callbacks, Fri., Sept. 8 at 7:30 p.m. 
O'Laughlin Auditorium Ooen to all NO.SMC Students 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
.. Classified Ads are now being accepted for any edition  Words Ida 2da 3da 4da 5da  
of the Observer. The next publication is Wednesday,  1-10  .65  .95 1.15 1.35 1.55  
September 6,  1972.  Deadline  
for publication of a classified is 1:00 pm the day before  11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40  
publication. Some categories  for  Ob­ 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95  
server Classified Ads include:  
Want Ads, For Sale Ads, For  21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45  
Rent  Ads,  Travel  Ads,  
Notices, and Personals. The Observer reserves the right to  26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45  
reject  any  objectionable  
Classified Ad  request.  Rates  31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15  
for classifieds are  printed at  
the right. All Classified Ads are paid  36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75  
for in advance at the Observer  
office,  second  floor  of  41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20  
La Fortune Student Center.  
For further 7471.  information  call  46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.1$  
Wanted  For sale  
Wanted: Typists for the Observer.  Recycled Books Save You Money!  
Afternoon and evening work on a  Pandoras has used books for: Art  
regularly scheduled basis. Salary  151 (Leader), General Humanities  
begins at $1.60 per hour. Call Joe  182,  Freshman  Seminar  180,  
at 1715 or  1412.  Humanities  185,  History  111  
(Kuhns),  History  111 (Norling),  
Philosophy 101, Theology 106.  
20,000 books in stock, 3day service  
on  other titles.  Buy, sell,  trade.  
Wanted: used girl's bicycle. Don't  Save a tree, recycle your books at  
care what it looks like, so long as  Pandoras  Books.  South  Bend  at  
it rides okay. Call Maria, 5166 or  Notre  Dame  Avenues  (5  blocks  
1715.  south  of  campus)  open  noon  to  
midnight---7 days.  




WELCOME FRESHMEN! 

We'd like to introduce ourselves...we're the men to see when you want apparel; we are ready for the year ahead with a brand new selection of slacks, sweaters, shirts, belts, shoes, suits, sportcoats, jeans...everything you'll need or want at the prices you want to pay. Our personnel is the same, however... we can't improve on this. 
PAY ONE-THIRD IN JANUARY, ONE-THIRD IN FEBRUARYI ONE-THIRD IN MARCH ... WITH NO SERVICE CHARGES 
It's true, you pay absolutely no interest or carrying charges with the exclusive Campus Shop Way to Buy. Open your account now. 
We're proud 
ORIGINAL HAGGAR 
to feature 

DOUBLE KNITS 
:~,. .. 
.. 

from $14 

Still the greatest doubleknit going. 100 percent Fortrel poly~ster is America's standard for comfort, style and fine fabrJcs. Solid shades in a subtle diagonal weave, with a university man's flare. Totally machine wash and dry.
t. 
Stop in ... get acquainted with our selections and services...you're welcome to browse. 
.... 

~ 
YOUR STORE 
WIN
! 
I 
A 10-SPEED
... 
~ in style
I 


BIKE 
~ 
In price

I Nothing to buy, just register 
I ~ 
In terms your name, you need not be 
I ON THE C.UUUS ••• NOTU DAM& present to win. I •­
L 
l •~ 






