
On The Inside 
The Faculty Manual is revised .•. page 3 
Sma II discusses the Guess Who ... page 5 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 27 Monday, October 16, 1972 
Wilson predicts increased expenses 

University 
by Bill McGinn Observer Staff Reporter 
A $187,700 surplus for the 1971-72 fiscal yea~ has not left the University Vice-President for Busmess Affairs Fr. Jerome Wilson optimistic about finishing in the black again this year. 
University President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh announced last week at the faculty assembly in Washington Hall that, contrary to expectations, the University finished in the black. 
"There was hardly a part of the University whi~h did not tighten its belt," Fr. Hesburgh satd, in explainingthe surplus. 
faculty insurance 
As a way of thanking its faculty and staff as well as "an act of faith in our ability to keep in the black," Father Hesburgh said the University would immediately assume the entire cost of medical and hospitalization insurance for faculty and qualified employees. Half the cost was assumed last July 1 by the University, and assumption of the rest was not scheduled until July 1, 1973. 
According to Wilson, the undergraduate colleges were the biggest belt tighteners-they saved the University almost $518,000. 

undergrad savings 
Thiswaspossible, Wilson indicated, because the colleges saved so much money last year because there were many unfilled positions in the various departments. He denied that this was a policy of under-staffing; rather, he urged that the depart­ments were exercising a policy of caution for the sake of their students. The department chairmen, he stated, were going selective in their search for 


balances budget 

Fr. Jerome Wilson: Balanced budget for 1972-73 doubtful. 
qualified faculty replacements. Wilson also added that the department chairmen saved money by cutting down on travel expenses and on the pur­chase of unneccessary equipment. 
The undergraduate co-exchange classes program 
with St. Mary's also contributed to the balanced 
budget of the past year. 

co-ex bill probable 
The Vice-President of Business Affairs was doubtful that these same techniques could be em­ployed again this year to implement a balanced budget. This year more Notre Dame students are taking courses at St. Mary's than there are SMC students at Notre Dame. The situation has reversed itself from last year and as a result, Notre Dame may have to pay St. Mary's for its participation in the co-exchange program. 

faculty raises 

The most crucial blow however will fall in the 
area of faculty pay increases. Because only small 
raises were given this year, the University will have 
to give n:'uch larger increases next year. According 
to Fr. Wilson, these pay increases will necessitate a 
rise in tuition. The exact amount of the tuition in­
crease for next year won't be known until later in 
the fiscal year, however, Fr. Wilson emphasized 
that the increase will be as small as possible--only 
enough to bring about a balanced budget. 
In the context of discussing surveys of American higher education by the Carnegie Commission on Higher Educaion, on which he sits, Father Hesburgh sounded an optimistic note last week in terms of Note Dame's future but warned that costs in higher education will probably continue to rise more steeply than income, necessitating either federal funding or increased giving on the part of the University's constituencies. 

study hall conversions 

Contrary to some rumors, the University is not making a profit on the conversion of the hall study lounges into residence quarters. Fr. Wilson pointed out that increased maid service and the purchase of new furniture were required for the study hall conversions. 
He also stressed that these study hall conversions were only temporary emergency measures, and that there will again be study halls in the dorms next year. 

McGoverncloses preference gap: Nixon on radio 


Poll shows McGovern gain Nixon: crime slowed 
by Jack Rosenthal 
by Robert B. Semple Jr.
(C) 1972 New Yort Times 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Washington, Oct. 15-ln the last month, 
Washington, Oct. 15-President Nixon
Sen. George McGovern has started to 
asserted today that he had brought what
reclaim sizable numbers of potential 
he called a "frightening trend of crime and 
democratic defectors, but President Nixon 
anarchy" to a standstill during his term in
still holds a wide over-all lead, according 
office. He pledged to do more to protect the 
to the third New York Times Yankelovich 
"moral and legal values" of the nation in a
Electoral Vote Survey. 
second term.
McGovern's gains appear most notable 
In a nationwide radio broadcast, Nixon
in New York and thee other large states, 
liberally used some statistics that have
among indepednents, and among voters of 
been disputed to prove his assertion that
Italian and Irish Background. But even 
he had done much to satisfy his 1968
these gains are only relative. Nixon 
campaign pledge to restore respect for
continues to hold sizable margins in these 
"law, order and justice" in America.
and most other categories of voters. 
The speech was the second in a series of,
The survey, conducted in the 16 largest 
states between Oct. 1 and 10, showed that voters preferred Nixon, 57 to 27 per cent, with the rest undecided. This 30 point margin represented a decided im­provement over the 39 point Nixon lead reported in ')e previous times Yankelovich Survey, completed Sept. 12. 
A simultaneous survey of the New York­New Jersey-Connecticut region also showed improvement for McGovern. A month ago, Nixon led in the region by 33 points. The new finding was 53 to 31, a 23 point margin. 
For the three states, the findings were: New York, 50 to 33; New Jersey, 58 to 27, and Connecticut, 60 to 29. 
Completion of the surveys coincided with publication of a special new Gallup poll conducted between Sept. 29 and Oct. 9 It showed a 26 point Nixon lead of 60 to 34­a gain of two points for McGovern in two weeks. 
The Times Yankelovich Survey in­dicated that the principal reason for these changes appear to be McGovern's im­proved standing among Democrats. In the radio broadcasts which Nixon intends to
George McGovern 

•••• 8 •• e • • • I I I lo lo lo I. I lo lo lo ••• I lo lo. lo lo lo lo lo lo lo I I ' ' e lo lo
. . ... . . ... . . . . . 
····;····~~~~·~··· ·....~ .. ~.·~-~ .....~ ....~ .....
. . . . . . . .. . . 
.... . . . . . . . . . . . .... 
earlier Survey, Nixon attracted slightly more Democrats than McGovern. 
The new survey showed that McGovern now leads among voters in his won party, 45 per cent to 36. Still, if even 36 per cent of Democrats remain defectors on Election Day, it would spell almost certain defeat for the South Dakota Senator. 
Nixon, the survey found, continued to attract strong support on foreign affairs issues. His standing did not seem to suffer much because of the Watergate Bugging Case. 
At the same time, there were strong signs in the survey findings that many voters do not much like either candidate. When asked whom they regard as a more attractive personality, Nixon got 34 per cent total, McGovern 26 per cent, and 
(continued on page 6) 


.uake to present his views on selected issues. Last week, he addressed himself to economic issues. 
Nixon found that he had committed few if any mistakes in his four-year battle against "the criminal forces in America." His appointments to federal courts, he said, had made the constitution "more secure." The leaders of his justice department, meanwhile, had brought "backbone" to national law enforcement. 
In addition, he asserted, his efforts to give more money to local law enforcement agencies had slowed the rapid rise in domestic crime; while bureaucratic shakeups and energetic diplomacy had stemmed "the raging heroin epidemic" of the last decade. 
Nixon conceded that more remained to be done and, in order to build a "land free of fear," he promised to appoint more "strict constructionists" to the courts, overhaul the federal criminal code, and channel still more funds to states and cities. 
The President did not mention by name his democrat opponent in the Presidential race, Sen. George MCGovern of South Dakota. But near the end of the 15-minute speech Nixon stressed some of his favorite themes of the campaign, associating himself with basic "values" that he suggested had been threatened by the forces of permissiveness. 
"I will work unceasingly to halt the erosion of moral fiber in American life, and the denial of individual accountability for individual action," the President said. "Government must never become so pre­occupied with catering to the way-out wants of those who reject all respect for moral and legal values that it forgets the citizen's first civil right, the right to be free from domestic violence," he added. 
(continued on page 2) 

r 
r 
r 
' 

the observer Monday, October 16, 1972
2 
Saigon-South Vietnam's chief delegate to the Paris Peace Talks returned to Saigon for consultations with President Nguyen Van 
•an c:ampu• taday
Thieu. Government spokesmen gave no details of the consultations, which will also include the ambassadors to the United States and Britain. But a newspaper that often 1eflects government thinking 
warld briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
reported that "everyone is waiting and hoping for a big event. either right after the American Presidential elections or early next year on inauguration day." 
Washington-The third New York Times-Yankelovich electoral vote survey indicated that Sen. George McGovern has begun to reclaim many Democrats who were defectors, but that President Nixon still holds a wide over-all lead. The survey, jointly sponsored with Time magazine, was conducted in the 16 largest states between Oct. 1 and Oct. 10. ltshowed that voters preferred Nixon over McGovern by 57 to 27 per cent, a decided improvement for McGovern. One month earlier, a survey gave Nixon a 39-point lead. 
Washington-Acting under the orders and direction of the White House, federal agencies have begun sending millions of elderly voters pamphlets describing the Nixon Administration's performance in programs affecting them. The Presidential assistant in charge of the effort said the mailing was to provide recommended information. But administration critics and some senior citizens organizations have called the effort political propaganda. 
Washington-Citing what it said were Justice Department files, Time magazine reported Sunday a link between a leading White House official and an elaborate campaign to spy on Democratic candidates and disrupt their campaigns. 
noon-meeting, indian affairs, "south dining hall, faculty room. 3:00pm-council, arts and letters college, room 100, cce. 
3:30pm-film, civilisation, 'the hero as artist: high renaissance 15th and 16th centuries', engineering auditorium. 
4:30. pm-seminar, 'translation of moth chorion messenger rna in frog oocytes', dr. richard gelinas, galvin life science center. 
7: 30 pm-meeting, big brother, 303 engineering. 
7:30 
pm-meeting, nd flying club, room 12, aerospace building. 

7:30 
pm-duplicate bridge, students-faculty, rathskellar. 


8:00 pm-lecture, 'some animadversions on american population policies', dr. william peterson, library lounge. 
deadline for all 'on campus today' material is 4:00 
p.m. on the day before publication 


Endorsed by Fr. Hesburgh 
TRAVEL BUREAU
Ticket exchange begins 
"ON CAMPUS"-BADIN HALL 
program, saying that this was one
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Notre Dame-Missouri game at 
of the ways for students to prove
students have the opportunity Notre Dame Stadium. 
the viability of "the concept of 
*Airline Reservations

today and tomorrow to turn in their Students may turn in their Notre Dame as a Christian community." , *Complete Domestic and Foreign Servicesfootball tickets so that un­tickets at the second floor ticket 
derprivileged children in the South window of the Athletic and Con­
Bend area can watch this week's vocation Center today and The exchange program also 
*Representative for all Airlines
tomorrow from 9 am to 4 pm. needs dirvers for the children. A 7 Seven hundred tickets are needed pm meeting tonight in the 
*No Additional Cost

for the three-year old exchange LaFortune Ballroom will orient 
program to succeed this year. drivers. A 7 pm meeting tomorrow Last year, over nine hundred night will orient monitors, which 
"Oriented to Youth Programs"
'tickets were donated for use by are also badly needed. Anyone 
South Bend children. wishing to help or needing further University President Fr. information should call B. J. Theodore M. Hesburgh last week Bingle at 3448 or Kathy Kane at 

FIRST BANK & TRUST TRAVEL 
released a letter of support for the 4198 or Tom Long at 3636. 
Phone : 283-7080 


During the past two years, I have been extremely proud of the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's concerning their total support of the Football Ticket Exchange program. This October 21st, the Notre Dame-Missouri game, will mark the third year of the project and I am certain that once again the students will come through. As President of the University, I give my total support for the exchange and encourage all students to participate In some way; either by giving up their ticket, by driving, or by monitoring children 
"'at the game. I believe the concept of Notre Dame as a Christian community is a viable thing. This is one of many ways that Notre Dame students prove it. 
Ever devotedly in Notre Dame, 
(Rev.) Theodore M. Hesburgh, C. S.C. President 
Can Heronymous Merkin Forget Mercy Humppe and Find True Happiness? 
Find out OCTOBER 17 or 18 at the Engineering Aud. at 6:30. 
NOTRE

FRIDAY 

ATHLETIC & 
CONVOCATI011




OCT. 20th
8:00P.M. 
CENTER 
The Concert Sound Of 



HENRY MANCINI 


Ticlltls on salt II: NOTRE DAME A. C. C. 
Ticket Prices: 
Bleachws •• $3.00
M ••••••• 
Box Office 9to 5M111.-Sat.
Lower ••••••••$5.50 

Robertson's-South Belli &ElkhartLoce St. Joe Ba'* 11d bra~~:hes Main Floor •••• $6.50 First Bait-main office ~~~~
M • M • 
Platforms Eihart Truth 

WHY PAY THROUGH YOUR NOSE TO SATISFY YOUR EARS? 
LEE LOUDSPEAKER SYSTEMS (Patents ijpplied for) 
You buy them factory direct. Their enclosures are of the finest oil rubbed walnut. They carry a free 5 year factory warranty. Yet. most important of aiL we are conviced that they will easily out perform any make of loudspeakers selling for twice their price. In face, we strongly urge you to compare their audio reproductive quai ities, under equal conditions of placement and loudness, to any other loudspeaker available-no matter how large or expensive they may be. You've got to hear them to believe them, so see our campus representative for a demonstration arid free brochure. 
Model LD-6, 18"-14"--8" deep, $39.97 each. 
Model LD-8, 18"-11"-12" deep, $49.97 each. 
Model LD-26, 22"-14"-12 1-8" deep, $65.97 each. 
36 WATT AM+FM MPX STEREO RECEIVER W-8-TRACK TAPE PLAYER AND TWO AIR SUSPENSION SPEAKERS 
This is easily a $149.95 value, your price is only $98.32. Mode. 8216 
8-TRACK STEREO CARTRIDGE TAPE PLAYER 
Normally sells for $49.95, your price isonly $31.73, Model 16247 
AC-DC CASSETTE TAPE RECORDER 
An Ideal lecture recorder. Comes complete with AC line cord, 4 
"C" cell batteries, carrying strap remote control microphone, push 
button controls. A $44.95 value, your price is only $31.66. Model Br 
380 
AM-FM AFC DIGITAL CLOCK RADIO 
Deluxe walnut grained vinyl clad wood cabinet, quality Am-Fm radio with AFC, silhouette lighted digital clock with large numerals, back lighted radio dial, loaded with extras. A $44.95 value, your price is only $33.17 Model 15227. 
5 year factory warranty on Lee Loudspeaker Systems. 90 day factory warranty on ali other products. We pay the freight and shipping charges, and give you a 15 day money back satisfaction 
guarantee. 
TO .ORDER: SIMPLY FILL IN THIS COUPON AND SEND IT '
.•. ----~-----------t
tt  ALONG WITH A CERTIFIED CHECK OR MONEY ORDER TO; LEE ELECTRONICS MFG., LTD., P.O. BOX 5, N ELM ST., THREE OAKS, MICHIGAN, 49128, (616) 756-9122.  •  
t  PLEASE RUSH ME ( ) MODEL  •  
.ttI  I HAVE ENCLOSED A CERTIFIED CHECK OR MONEY ORDER IN THE AMOUNT OF NAME DATE  t t I  
• :~;:ET ADORES<  ~  
'  STATE-------------------------------------­ 
ZIP CODE  •  

NOTE: ALLOW 'Va DAYS FOR DELIVERY-A LITTLE LONGER • FOR PERSONAL CHECKS __ . j 


t ______________.., 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: 
WRITE TO US, OR SEE OUR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE STEVE MAGDZINSKI 232 STANDFORD HALL N.D.U., 283-8650 
Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh 
Nixon cites stats showing slower crime rates 
(continued from page 1) 
Among the statistics cited by Nixon to prove the progress he had made in his war on crime at home were Federal Bureau of In­vestigation figures showing that serious crimes had risen by 122 per cent in the eight years before he took office. 
Crime rose by 30 per cent in the first three years of the Nixon Administration. The president failed to mention this in his speech. But statistics from the F.B.I. show only a 1 per cent increase so far this year, and Nixon cited the figure. 
Nixon also cited favorable figures reported earlier this year by the police department in the District of Columbia, which the President described in 1968 as the "crime capital of the world" and where he has greatly enlarged the number of policemen. 
McGovern, using statistics of his own, charged today that Nixon was making fraudulent claims and that crime had increased at a more rapid rate than ever before during the Nixon Administration. He also 1said that drug addiction had rreached new highs over the last two years. 
The Observer is pubilshet.l daily during the college semester ex­cept. vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased. for S8 per semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

r 
M ' ' 
" 
Monday, October 16, 1972 the observer 
3 
IIIIUUIII!IIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIDIIIIUUIBIIIIIHIIIIIIUUI!IIIIIIIHIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIU!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIUIIIUIUIIIIUUIIHIIHIIUIUHDIIDIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIBIIIIUIIIIII 
Academic Council to revise Faculty manual 

by Ed Ellis versions of the manual represents a Council to forty members, with six 
fundamental difference in philosophy students, all of whom vote, fourteen ad­
Observer Associate Editor between the drafters of each version. The ministrators, and twenty faculty mem­current manual-and the Steering Com­bers. 
Revision of the Notre Dame Faculty 
mittee version of the revision-begins in On the Steering Committee, the ad­
Manual is the Academic Council's major 
Article I with statements concerning the ministration~riented version places great 
task in its four scheduled meetings this 
President and the principal officers of the weight on administative input, whereas 
Fall. The current manual, in force since 
University. The manual is thus definitely the Senate version shifts the balance to the 
1967 and due for revision every ten years, 
faculty side.
administration~riented. 
was made obsolete by the creation of the 
The faculty version of the revision The faculty version of the Faculty
Office of the Provost, directives from the begins with the faculty in .4..ti<'le I. Senate itself tries to consolidate facultyProvost concerning tenure and ap­
Whereas the Steering Committee version opinion by placing the twenty faculty
pointments committees, and various other works down from the presidency, the Academic Council members on the Senate changes in the academic structure and 
deans, department heads, and finally the ex-officio. The Steering Committee ver­
operation of the University. 
sioq makes no such provision, and further version works upward through the same devides faculty opinion by eliminating the individual faculty members, the faculty 
Two Versions 
sequence of officers. Faculty Senate Chairman from the The revision process began last year Academic Council on an ex-officio basis. 
Four specific points 

when University Provost Father James. T. The Faculty Committee on University Burtchaell requested suggestions from Libaries is another point of clear op­various sectors of the University. One Four readily evident points of contention position. The Senate retained the original revision was planned, organized, and include the Academic Council, the wording of the Manual, which states, "the written by the Faculty Senate after ex­committee is competent to decide all tensive hearings, investigations, and 
matters of policy." debates. A myriad of other proposals were The Steering Committee replaced the submitted to the Provost, mostly con­original wording with a vague statement of Fr. James T. Burtchaell, University cerning themselves with small portions of purpose: "The purpose is to be responsive Provost and ex-officio Steering Committee the manual. Steering Committee of the Co'uncil, the to educational and research needs of the Chairman 
The Steering Committee of the Faculty Committee on University Academic community." Essentially the student protest against the-ill-fated

Academic Council sifted through the Libraries and the Faculty Senate, all revision deprives the committee, minor Academic Calendar.

various proposals and submitted its own quasi-legislative bodies, and in most though it may seem to be, of legislative The first meeting was last Monday, andversion to the Academic Council this week. cases, the administrative-faculty balance power, and merely asks it to be handled only procedural matters. TheThe major contending versions of the of power is the crucial difference. "responsive." 

The Academic Council currently con­second meeting, next Monday, is plannedrevision are the Steering Committee 
as a sort of academic free-for-all where administrators, 29 elected faculty members of the Council can question the
version, which rejected most of the sists of about 65 members, including 29 Four meetings to complete revisions 
proposals· and the Senate version. The authors of contending versions.

Steering Committee is dominated by. the members, and 7 students. In the Steering The importance of the revisions to the Administrative figures like P Fr. Burt­Committee's revision, several vice-manual can be judged by the fact that four Th~ third and fourth meetings will 
consist of substantive consideration of the 
chaell and Associate Provost Fr. Fer­presidents are dropped, the chairman of meetings of the Academic Council have manual.

dinand Brown. the Faculty Senate is dropped, and the been scheduled for a six-week period this student contingent is cut to three non-fall. The Council met twice all last year,
Organization 

voting members. and one of those meetings was at the The organization of the contending The Faculty Senate would cut the request of Council members responding to Research Assistance: Tom Drape IIIUWDDDUHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIDIIDJOIPQIID'I11111111111Iwiii11PIIWMIIIMIDIIQYIUIWIUIUUIIIDIIIIIIIIUIIIUIIIIIIIIIUIIIIUUIUU!IIUIIIUUUIIIIUIIIIIIIIIUDIII!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIUWUIIIIHHIIHIIIRIUHIIIUIIIIIIIIUIUUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
An Afternoon with
Airline'youthfares' to be axed 

DR. ROBERT GORDON 
by Jiavid Rust But when "sack load" mail from immediately void. 


Coffee and Conversation 
Obst:l"Ver Staff Reporter· disagreeing college students began Since the 1972 elections are reaching Present and the Board, America's first in which 18 year­

3:30-5:00pm OCTOBER 18
Unless it becomes a major 
the CAB ruled that there was no olds will be also able to vote, thecampaign issue in the presidential unjust discrimination against youth fare problem could become 

Library Auditorium
elections now less than a month 
adults inherent in the special an issue in the presidential elec­away, the Civil Aeronautics Board 
discount fare. tions, should, as one releaseis expected to announce its 

Sponsored by the G. S. U.
Four years later, study and suggests, "inquiries" be sent to the
decision to abolish discounts on research on the idea, including the presidential candidates.

youth fares for all commercial 
knowledge that only 14 of the
domestic flights. 
nations arilines supported youth
Such a move would have a major 
fares, with ten opposed or with no
effect on many of Notre Dame's 
stand, the CAB made the decision
students whose homes are long 
to cut off the discounts. If the
distances from the campus and 
announcement should come, all
who fly frequently because flying 
youth fare cards will be rendered
is the most economic form of transportation. 
r-...... ---------1
A statem~nt concerning the 
CAB's decision was planned for 
t ·~e(UC §'~, I 
release in August, says. . .,1~n official in Washington, and sources· at 



~Mmdme : 
several airlines agree that''lhtl announcement will come after the 
~ lco,l,let -~~ : 
November elections. Most also agree there is only a 
~WJI a ~ianwnd" J slim chance for retaining the youth. 
f enclode 5();
fare which has allowed thousands of students up until their 22nd 
Nem•----~----------­
(Pie.., print}
birthday to fly from 10 to 40 per­
Address _________
cent cheaper than older air 
travelers. The CAB began to reach a ten­
~ Ctty__Stete---.Ztp__ tative decision in January of 1968 when CAB examiner Arthur S. Present ruled that discount fares 


l TIFFANY&Co.
limited to persons 12 to 21 years of 
. : 715 North Michigan Ave.
age are "unjustly discriminatory" 
' Chicago, Illinois 60611 
because age alone isn't a valid 
L--...... --------...J
distinction between passengers. 
ST~EPHEN STILLS 

October 27 at 8:30pm 
SOME GOOD SEATS STILL AVAILABLE 
at Stu.dslfrUnion (11 :30-1, 3-5) and 
A. C. C. Ticket Office (9-5) 




SWEATERS 
You can choose from turtle necks, mock turtles, V-necks, crew necks and more ... in many of the latest fabrics and colors. Priced for your budget. 
,1
JACKETS 
Quality make jackets in many styles, fabrics. and colors. Stop, shop our selections. 
j

COATS 
Su~bur~an coats, outer coats to suit the 
1
untvers•_ty ~an (and his budget). Get ready for a Mtchtana winter. 
1 
~ 

ETC. 

Scarfs, gloves and all the etc. you're going to need and want. Stop in soon. 
Pay the exclusive 
Campus Shop Way ... 
Pay one third in January, one third in 
February and one third in March, No service 
or. carrying charges ever added. 



Americ:a's Children
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 


Just Rambling 
News: 283-1715 Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, Editorial: 283-8661 on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the Business: 283-7-t71 individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
jerry lutkua 
Monday, October 16, 1972 


Help for LaFortune 
In the last couple weeks, Dr. Robert Ackerman, director of student activities and students Dan Schipp and Dave Caruso have organized a committee to study possible renovations in LaFortune Student Center. 
It's become an annual occurence here to read about committees studying changes in the student center. So it's understandable that there was no response to their initial call for help. · 
But this year it's different. For the first time in memory, there's a chance for something to be done. 
The Architecture Department has included on its syllabus for second year students a period when they will study potential changes in the center. Their recommendations will amend those made by Ackerman's committee. Then, the report will go to the Vice-President for Student Affairs. 
Moreover, the SLC has included on their list of topics for discussion changes in the center. The Trustees have also experssed interest in the subject. 
That is why the committee is so im­portant. People are interested and concerned and the recommendations of Ackerman's committee will bear a great deal of weight in deciding what is to be 
donewith the center. 
To even get the report out, they're going to need help. Their appeal last week drew absolutely no response. And they do need people--people who are willing to sink afew hours into working the student center into a more viable 
daanesbu 
facility. 

Call them and offer your assistance. If 
you want ot help call Dr. Ackerman's 
office or Student Government. They need 
your help. 

Jerry Lutkus 
Donate your game tickets 
Two years ago a group of students started a program which has quickly become a tr41dition, of sorts, at Notre Dame. Today, for the third time students are being asked to volunteer their tickets to a home football game so that children from the South Bend area can have the opportunity to see Notre Dame in action. 
Exchange Director B. J. Bingle estimates that 700-800 tickets will be needed. In addition, approximately 100 drivers and monitors are needed to supervise the program. Considering the tremendous public relations image the program brings to Notre Dame students, its really a small price to pay. 
The Athletic and Convocation Center ticket offive (on the second floor) is open today and tom morrow from 9:00 until 
4:00 to process donations of student Missouri tickets. Think of your own little brothers and sisters--it's worth it for a smile and a thank you. 
John Abowd 
Sometirn~ last week, an off-campus student was jumped in the 
Corby St. area. Four ~ouths grabbed him and helped themselves to his 
wallet. He protested and asked if they would return something from 
the wallet. .. I think it was his driver's license. One of the youths 
responded negatively by sliding a razor blade across the student's 
neck. He's got a nasty scar there now to attest to his mugging. And he 
didn't get his license back either. 
The incident was noted in the South Bend Tribune and the Observer. 
The stories were short and to the point-as news stories of this nature 
generally are. Neither story attracted much attention-a bank robber 
was loose in Michiana and the student senate had just passed the new 
student government constitution. Sot the story was printed and soon 
forgotten... the only thing that remains is that ugly red scar. 
A few weeks ago, members of the campus media met with campus 
security and Fr. James Riehle to try and work out some ideas for 
bettering campus security. The major idea coming out of the meeting 
was a program of bicycle registration, an attempt to protect the 
ballooning bike population on campus. 
The P!'~gram ended up in the hands of the Farley Cycler who put out 
a magmficent effort only to watch the program fail miserably. 
L~st year, an ungodly number of bikes were stolen from the campus. 
This year, the number of bikes has increased amazingly, yet a 
program to try and prevent the massive thievery has failed. 
It's kind of interesting how insensitized we become when we pass Angela and head down Notre Dame Avenue to the circle. Just cut across the quad, zip past Alumni and you're in another world. The Dome g~ow~ in. its ar:tificial night light, the stars shine brightly, and <'verythmg IS nght with the world. We all feel safe in the womb of the great University. 
In the land of intelligentsia, we sometimes lose contact with the world o~tside its ~rders. And because of that our sensitivity toward the outside world IS destroyed. Out of touch with an urban society we cannot feel com passion or concern for the problems of the city. ' 
And on-campus the problems we face far outweigh any outside woes. Tests, books, academia, student politics, student problems all take precedence. 
I hope you'll excuse my rambling. 
Today I begin a new job... editorial editor. No longer do I have to hold the concerns of the news desk as I have for the past year. Students getting jumped and bicycles being stolen are now material for editorial comment and not news coverage. I must sit back in the office and tell you who screwed up or who to blame or who to congratulate. Or what the answer is. I hope this doesn't disappoint you, but I don't have any answers, just a lot of questions and a lot of feelings. 
Too. often feeling gets lost in the shuffle of newsprint and copy and headlmes and late hours. And to a large degree this must be the case. I really don't want to become insensitive, but to a large degree I must. . The right of editorial comment is the heart of any newspaper---€ven m a one newspaper town. And it is a right and a duty and a privilege that no paper should ever relinquish. Thus its importance is set. And thus the reason why sensitivity is so often lost. Facts and reasoning must prevail--{)pinions to a large degree cannot allow emotions to sway them. But here the dichotomy is found. If feelings are left out completely, then insensitivity has hit and rationalization has over­powered the man. A situation I find troubling. 
Oh well. I've finished rambling. I hope it made some kind of sense. 

.I've ec-~N ovr 
~~~ 
t),K,t:J){ .r 6'1/£55 ... SHe's 
BEeN APHIN/5'TEI?!Nt; 
CONSC!OV5Nt55 $5/NG5eSStON5 ro THe 6tl2t-5... 1 


IJarry trudeau 
~----------------, 

N011 
~ 

u~~~ 
IW/11/110.. 
-:JOfiNie HR'I 
/l6!15KJN6
'17JO MIJCH OF 
U77l£ 61/2t-S 
OF Tf/11 T AGe.. I 
the observer 
editorial staff 
Editor-in-chief: John Abowd Executive editor: Don Ruane News editor: Jerry Lutkus Managing editor: Joe Abell St. Mary's editor: Maria Gallagher Features editor: Rod Braye Sports editor: Jim Donaldson Campus editor: Ann Therese Darin Associate editors: Ed Ellis, Bob Higgins Special projects editor: Anthony Abowd 
business staff 
Business manager: Dan Thornton Advertising manager: Joe Butler 
issue staff 
Night editor: Marlene Zloza Ass't night editor: Chris Sullivan Features night editor: Jane O'Donnell Ass't. features night editor: Mairin North Day editor: Tom Bornholdt Layout: Sue Prendergast (a loyal roommate), Joe Abell, John (page one as usual) Typists: Mark Niederkorn, Steve Roper, Howard Harre. Dennis Anastasoff, Bob Ba-rringer Writer-in-residence: Ed E IIis Picture man: Jerome Night controller: David Rust Transportation: Joe Abell 

--------------------------------.
---------~-------------~------­
Monday, October 16, 1J'/2 
the observer 
5 

The One Last Weekend 


A Combination of the Old and New 
pat small 
When one is reviewing a concert, it is fairly easy to make erroneous judgments and generalizations about a group based on their live performance. I learned that lesson when I took in White Trash and the Guess Wllo Saturday night at the ACC. If I hadn't talked with various members of the two bands after the concert, I'm quite sure that this review woUld be brimming with unfair and untrue statements. On the other hand, by talking to a group after a per­formance, one may become biased toward or against them based on their per­sonalities. Therefore, one must reach a happy medium between how the reviewer sees it and how the performer meant it. I hope this is what I accomplished in this review and interview. 
White Trash with Jerry Lacroix is one of those get it on are you ready, are you feelin' all right type of bands. They play a fast, hard-driving, rock-soul type of music and they urge their audience to "get into it" with them. They are definitely the type of group that performs better at a concert than on records. 
They came off pretty good as far as the audience's reaction was concerned. I must give them credit for getting most of the people there to roll with their music. However, although they could jive and "get it on," their material left a lot to be desired. 
The only song that I considered halfway decent was Otis Redding's "Can't Turn Me Loose." 
White Trash struck me as a Joplinish, Otis Redding type of band. Even some of Jerry Lacroix's vocal mannerisms were reminiscent of the late Janis. The group is potentially a good rocking band but most of their material was kinda trashy. 
The Guess Who was a combination of the old and the new. Their performance featured a number of cuts off of their live album and their soon to be released album mixed in with their old hits. For the most part, the familiar bettered the new. 
Actually the new material just didn't come off. Guitarist Donny McDougall's "Samantha's Living Room" had a weak vocal by Donny and harmony and music that sounded a lot like Neil Young. "New Mother Nature" gave Grateful Deadish overtones. "Showbiz Shoes" was sort of a drag, and "Follow Your Daughter Home" was calypso with a flute and very raunchy lvrics. 
The old stuff was the best. They played the rock 'n roll "Workshop Owner," "Heart Broken Mama", "Hand Me Down World," and the ballad that brought them into fame, "These Eyes." The usual long version of "American Woman" was featured and was used as a vehicle for the group to solo. They proved that they were quite excellent musicians with Kurt Winter and Donny McDougall both playing lead, Bill Wallace on bass, and Garry Peterson on drums. Burton Cummings handled most of the lead singing as well as playing piano and flute. The solos rolled into "Truckin' Off Across the Sky", an anti-pusher, which completed about a half hour of non-stop playing. The group finished with strong versions of "Share the Land" and "No Time." 
I had a chance to talk with Burton Cummings after the show about the concert, the Guess Who, and music in 




general. It was pretty weird doing a first­a prostitute.': On former guitarist Randy 
....
time, unprepared, interview so it was more Bachman: "It was like he'd say jump and of a rap-around than anything else. • expect the three of us to jump. He's got his I asked him if he had anything par­own band now and they've put out three 
ticularly against American women after he albums and they're really not too good."blasted them on American Woman but his And on Alice Cooper: "They're a greatreply to the contrary "Actually, it gets bunch of guys but they really can't play.''
boring doing the same thing night after Burton expressed that the Guess Who was night so it just sort of evolved." Nothing a tighter, happier band now: "At least we personal to any female libs. can live with each other.'' He was also 
We also talked on a various number of pretty optimistic about the future "We're subjects ranging from radio to the future of going to be together for a long time." If the Guess Who. He commented on AM radio: G~ess Who can ~et their new music on par
"It's geared to 13 year olds and it plays the with some of their old standards it will be a music so it can run commercials; it's really pleasure to have them around. 

Little Bir:J Screen 
art ferranti 
The unpreviewed made-for TV movies with Kim Novak as Lylah Clare, a dumb sex look better this week than the released-a­symbol, and the false glitter of Hollywood. few-years-ago flicks, but take my advice There is a poster out with Miss Novak only and study for mid-terms since there is clad in a towel. This is the movie it came nothing really spectacular on the tube -­from. That should give you an idea what the until Sunday night, most likely. flick is like. The spotlights flash on at 8:00 on 
ABC is the network that gets the blue 22 but turn the switch off. ribbon this week with its great hilarious Fools Parade on Saturday on NBC might opener, The Odd Couple, last night. On be diverting but it isn't likely; and Sand­Tuesday(chan. 28, 7:30) Goodnight My Love castles (Tuesday, CBS, 8:30 pml is about a premieres with Richard Boone "Have Gun love story between a live girl and a ghost­Will Travel" , "Medic", "Richard Boone come on now ... If you haven't guessed by Show", and "Hec Ramsay", Michael Dunn those few words, skip it. <Ship of Fools, Dr. Loveless in "The Wild, There is not a CBS Friday night Wild West"), and Barbara Bain (("Mission movie(preempted due to a special on Impossible") in a spoof of The Maltese skyjacking) but NBC is presenting the first Falcon complete with the mysterious blonde in a ten part series in celebration of (just for the record to picky trivia buffs, the America's bi-centennial. Friday, Chet girl in Bogart's Falcon, Mary Astor, was a Huntly and Walter Brennan l"Goodnight, brunette), the fat man, and the time setting -Walter;" Goodnight, Pepito"???) will -1946. It looks good. narrate the growth of the United States from 
1776 to 1876 using vintage films and"stills-in­
Again ABC scores on Wednesday night­motion series of paintings and drawings" to same time same station -with A Great illustrate "The American Experience." American Tragedy, touted to be a con­History buffs, take note. temporary drama. Definitely appearing to Trivia and other assorted nonsense. The be in the same mold as Death of a Salesman, Classless Cover Award of the Year goes to the Willie Loman character here is played this week's cover of "TV Guide." The cover by George Kennedy (Airport,among others advertises two seperate articles inside. and the ill-fated "Sarge") who assumes the Titled next to the TV Guide letterhead is (in role of an aerospace engineer laid off from white bold lettering)) "Televisions his $35,000 a year job and who has to con­Changing Attitudes Toward Sex and front the numerous troubles of debts, Nudity (smaller case) "Page eight. "The full unemployment, and a possibly wrecked color cover picture is of the head and right marriage. Vera Miles, who seems to have shoulder of Robert Conrad ("The Wild, Wild played every middle-aged husband's wife West" and "Assignment: Vienna")­since The FBI Story, is cast as Kennedy's shirtless! I guess that makes him "TV spouse here. ' Guide's" answer to Cosmopolitan's Burt 
As for the rest of the week, mediocrity Reynold's centerfold. ­prevails. Cool Million airs Monday on NBC Trivia Question. Here's an easy one for with James Farentino as super-sleuth this week. Jack Klugman and T• 11y Randall Jefferson Keyes (obviously anyone with a play Oscar and Felix respectivei · in the TV plain sounding name would never make it as show "The Odd Couple." Walter Matthay a private eye on TV. Even Banacek, while and Jack Lemmon preceded them by a few having Polish jokes scattered throughout years in the same respective roles in the the show, is just as sharp sounding as movie version last night. Now, who played Mannix <Armenian and T.H.E. Cat in the Broadway version of this Neil Simon <Spanish-Gypsy)). Itis the pilot for the third hit? (If a California boy like me knows the segment of the NBC Mystery Movie which answer, then one's not being from New York ­will feature a "Cool Million" episode on is no excuse for not knowing the answer.) October 25 and presumably every three The answer is somewhere on this page. weeks afterward since it shares the spotlight with "Banacek" and "Madigan" (both excellent programs). A missing heiress is the plot for this flick about a private detective who only works if he gets a flat million dollars a job. I wonder how much Farentino gets for the show. 
Thursday CBS will present The Legend of Lylah Clare --a movie reminiscent of The ..\aweJ lJV .-\q pa.-\t?{d Jai!un X!fa.'{ 'neql
Oscar and Harlow. This one concerns itself -lew Jal{eM .-\q pa.-\erd uosJpew Je;:,so 
Monday, October ft, 1972
the observer
6 

U.S. apologizesfor bomb damage 
by Bernard Gwertzman 
(c) 1972NewYork Times 
Washington, Oct. 15---The Nixon administration has concluded in private that American bombs were probaply responsible for the damage done to the French and other diplomatic missions in Hanoi last week, and not a North Viet­namese antiaircraft missile, a high-ranking official said today. 
Secretary of State William P. Rogers, appearing on a television interview, said a "final deter­mination" has not been reached, but he left the clear impression that he did not care to argue with eyewitnesses claim that a United States Navy F-4 fighter bomber had dropped the bombs that had also caused serious injury to a French diplomat. 
"It is regrettable that it hap­pened. We have expressed our regrets to those countries whose embassies were involved, but faulty bomb drops do occur upon occasions," Rogers said. 

Rogers said, "I think there will be some statement by the Defense Department on this." But Daniel Z. Henkin, the Pentagon spokesman, said no statement was con­templated today because the in­vestigation of the incident had not been completed. 
Following initial reports of the damage last Wednesday, the Defense Department issued a statement asserting that U.S. Navy F-4 phantom jets had struck railyards and transshipment points across the Red River from 
McGovern trimming margin 
(continued from page l) 

-"neither" ran a strong second with 32 per cent. These figures contrasted with the over-all Presidential reference findings. McGovern's total was low--but almost the same as his over-all "vote" figure of 'Z7 per cent. Nixon's 34 per cent was far below his over-all figure of 57 per cent. Two-thirds of those who prefer each candidate said they did so only as the best of two abailable choices and not as the man they would most like to see as President. Among Democrats who plan to vote for Nixon, three­fourths took this position. McGovern's general gain, the survey showed, was paralleled by his improved standing on some national issues, with which he has been closely identified. For example, in the last survey, more voters answered "Nixon" 
when asked who would do the job of closing tax loopholes. In the new Survey, McGovern came out on top. There were similar shifts on other domestic issues. 
But there was no such shift on McGovern's major campaign theme--the Vietnam War. As in the past times Yankelovich sur­veys, two-thirds of the voters said they thought Nixon was doing everything possible to end the war. 
And 54 percent said they thought he was the "Peace"candidate, compared with 35 per cent for McGovern. 
More than a quarter of those interviewed described McGovern as "radical". Only 1 per cent described themselves, and 3 per cent Nixon in that way. 
The strongest signs of McGovern progress shown in the survey were in New York, California, Penn­sylvania and Michigan. 
The 17-point Nixon lead in New York was the closest reported. In 
SLC to discuss admission of, co-ed representative 
Female student representation on the Student Life Council and a proposed committee system for the Council will highlight today's SLC meeting in the Center for Continuing Education. The SLC Steering Committee formulated this agenda at a meeting last week. 
Dr. Robert Ackerman, chairman of the steering committee and Fred Guiffrida. chairman of the SLCmetwith the women's dorms to discuss the desirability of a female student voice on the council. The halls have yet to respond officially but Guiffrida feels the idea was received favorably by the dorms. 
Initially, Ackerman and the Steering Committee hoped to seek permission from the university to 

temporarilyexpand the number of stu<lents on the SLC from eight to nine. This new position would be filled with a woman student. Now. the resignation of SBVP Ed Grey. a SLC representative, leaves one of the regular student positions on the SLC open. Guiffrida would like to see this vacancy filled by a 
woman. 
"The procedure for seating the female student voice will be discussed at the SLC meeting." Ackerman said. 
The committee system that the 
Steering Committee approved is 
similar to last year's system. Four 
standing committees will deal with 
different facets of SLC business. 
"There are fourteen topics to be considered by the SLC," Acker­man said . "We will reccommend that they be considered by one of four committees. The committees will be similar to last year's. We will propose that a Hall Life Committee, a Planning Com­mittee, a Campus Life Committee, and a Rules and Regulations Committee be formed." 
Illinois students can request absentee ballots 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's students who are registered voters in Illinois, but have not yet requested an absentee ballot, may do so intheir respective dining halls, this tuesday, October 17th, during their evening meals. 
Tables will be set up at the main entrances to the South Dining Hall and St. Mary's Dining Hall, and at all three entrances to the North. 

California, the survey found a 51 to 32 point Nixon lead, considerably smaller than before. In Penn­sylvania, the result was 57 to 29, also an improvement. 
The biggest McGovern gain was in Michigan where the survey indicated, Nixon leads by a 50 to 28 point margin, a 22-point spread. The last survey found a 44 point difference. 
A new survey conducted in the state for the DetroitNewsreported the standing as 50 to 37--no gain for McGovern over a month, but a sizable loss for Nixon. 
Podemski will notarize ballots at StepanCenter 
A notary public is available in Stepan Center for any student who needs to have his applicatin for an absentee ballot notarized. The notary is Mr. Siggie Podemski, Stepan Center Manager, and he is not charging the customary fee for election notarization. 
The Notary Public is available Monday through Friday from 9 am to 11 am and from 2 pm to 5 pm or whenever there is an activity in Stepan. 
Podemski said that students 
should read theinstructionson their 
applications. Most of them require 
that the student complete his ap­
plication in the presence of the 
notary before it can be notarized. 
Podemski said there have been 
many cases in which students have 
marked the application before he 
saw it. This makes the application 
illegal and prevents Mr. Podemski 
from notarizing it. 
the French mission, some three miles away. It said that damage to the French and other missions could have been caused by a faulty North Vietnamese surface-to-air missile that blew up upon impact with the earth. 
But Secretary of Defense Melvin 
R. Laird, in a news conference, condeded that same day that pilot error might have been respoin­sible. 
Since then, various eyewitnesses have asserted that they saw an American plane drop bombs in the diplomatic quarter of Hanoi. The North Vietnamese have also claimed to have recovered bomb fragments from the debris. 
Damage was also reported by the Algerian and Indian embassies in Hanoi, both of which were situated near the French Delegate­General mission, the building that was most severely damaged. 
An administration official was asked whether Rogers felt 
American bombs were responsible. The official said that there was a "consensus" in the administration that they were the cause. 
But Rogers stressed that, despite the incident, there would be no change in American policy of bombing "military targets" In North Vietnam. 
"We would certainly hope there would be no further accidents," he said. "The President has said consistently that we would con­tinue the bombing of military targets in the north. There is going to be no change in policy." 
Appearing on "Issues and An­swers" over the American Broadcasting Company, Rogers refused to provide any details on the course of the negotiations with North Vietnam on ending the Vietnam war. 
Asked about Henry A. Kissinger's most recent round of private talks in Paris last week, Rogers said he did not want to comment in any way because the negotiations "are now in a very serious and very sensitive stage." 
~BOAC 
EUROPE! Take advantage of Our LOW, LOW Rates. Go and Return when you want. Call Clark for details. 283-8810 
Museum Without Walls 
Mon, Oct. 16 "The Cubist Epoch" 

"Germany-Dada" 
Eng. Aud. 8 & 10 $1.50 
Monday, qctober 16, 1972 
the observer 
7 

SMC parents hear plans 
by Mary Janca Observer Staff Reporter 
The Board of Directors of the Saint Mary's Parents Council heard proposals, ideas and future plans for the school Friday as they met all day with top College ad­ministrators and Student Government leaders. 
In the morning session, SMC President Dr. Edward Henry, briefed the Board on the Planning Process, an in-depth study into the student life, faculty, academic programs, and the college in general. 
Academic Development 
Dr. William Hickey, Vice­President for Academic Mfairs, explained his own research into Academic Development. This, he said, included "taking a look into each oe of our academic programs, determining where there are strengths and weaknesses, building up departments we would like to continue and looking for new areas we would like to open majors in." 
He also discussed the Ex­perimental Program Office, organized to allow faculty and departments with innovative ideas to establish new courses, new programs, and lecture series. 
In the afternoon session, Sister 
M. Raphaelita, C.S.C., Director of Admissions, outlined Recruiting and Admissions developments. She was followed by Sister Kathy Reichardt, C.S.C., who spoke on Campus Ministry, and Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, Vice-President for 
Two girIs join Notre Dame 
Air Force ROTC 
Two undergraduate women 
enrolled at Notre Dame have 
joined the Air Force Reserve 
Officer Training Corps <AFROTC) 
on the campus. They are the 
newest firsts in Notre Dame's 
move to co-education. 
The new cadets are Mary Ann 
Palinski, a freshman from 
Rochester, N.Y., who is planning 
to study biology at Notre Dame, 
and Rosemary Tirinnanzi, also a 
freshamn from Hampton, Va.. , and 
Stow, Mass., who is planning to 
study science in the pre­
professional program. 
The Notre Dame detachment 
enrolled agirllast year, Patricia A. 
Dunlap, but she was actually a 
student at Indiana University of 
South Bend and has since moved to 
a similar program at the 
University ·of Florida after her 
father, an Air Force officer, was 
transferred to that area. 
Both Miss Palinski and Miss 
Tirinnanzi were members of the. 
National Honor Society in high . 
Student Mfairs, who discussed the new Student Center and RA Program. 
Student Center 
The new Student Center, ex­plained Dr. Cannon, "was the result of action by the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees who were trying to find some area where we could create a social climate on the campus. So we looked to Regina Hall simply because it had a lot of space." 
She also stated that included in the new Student Center would be an Exercise Room, Hi-Fi Room, Game Room, Student Government offices, as well as kitchenettes and a room for foller-skating. 
Open Lobbies and Parietals 
Sue Welte, Vice-President of the Student Body, explained the 

proposed 24-hour open lobbies, and 
male visitation. She cited the 
necessity of this as "to provide 
concrete alternatives to meet the 
different needs of the students." 
The reaction of the Board to 
these two ideas, said Welte, was 
not wholly negative, although 
views were mixed. 

Although not a legislative body, 
the Parent's council was organized 
to inform parents of activities of 
the college and to enable them to 
express their own views on the 
proposed changes. 

The Board of Directors of the 
Parent's Council is composed of 
twenty couples, or forty parents, 
whose daughters attend Saint 
Mary's. Although they have no 
legislative authority, there are 
parents elected from the Board to 
serve on the committees for the 
Board of Regents, which in turn, lfnake decisions that affect the pture of the College. 


SMC Alun1nae meet W"ith adn1inistrators 
by Maude Pytynia Observer Staff Reporter 
The Saint Mary's College Alumnae Board heard reports yesterday morning from top college administrators concerning the integration of Alumnae input into the College planning process. 
College President Dr. Edward Henry, John Hof, Special Assistant to the President, Dr. Donald Hornung, Chairman of the College Planning Committee, and Sr. M. Basil Anthony, C.S.C., Vice­Chairman of the Planning Com­mittee, reported on the planning process, but details of the closed meeting have not been released. 
The second session yesterday afternoon covered aspects of alumnae work which included the 1973 reunion, the Alumnae Award Committee, and the Spring reception and breakfast for graduating seniors. 
New appointments to the College Board of Regents were also an­nounced at the meeting. Mrs. E. Milton Belvington of LaCrosse, Wisconsin, was appointed to the Academic Affairs Committee, and Mrs. Jon F. Dewitt of Grand Rapids, Michigan, was appointed to the Development Committee. Mrs. Bernard Hank of Muleen Illinois, became a member of the Student Affairs Committee, and Mrs. Timothy Galvin Jr. was appointed the representative to the Finance Committee. 

Many alumnae here for the meeting attended the Notre Dame­Pitt football game and the annual cocktail party sponsored by the St. Mary'sAlumnaeBoard. 
WSND show 
to feature 

co-ed views 
WSND's "Tear and Tell" will feature Badin Hall Rector Kathy Cekanski, Walsh Hall Rector Joanne Szafren, Badin President Kern Magnotta, and Walsh President Sue Anderson tonight at 11 pm. 
"Tear and Tell", moderated by 
Lyn Leone every Monday night 
on WSND AM and FM will present 
a discussion of campus life for 
Notre Dame women this week. 

school. 
-· 

TICKET EXCHANGE PROGRAM NO -Missouri Game Oct. 21 Turn in tickets Today or Tom:orrow Second Floor Ticket window ACC-­
From 9-4. DRIVERS NEEDED -Short meeting for all who can drive tonight 7:00pm Second Floor Lobby-LaFortune 
MONITORS NEEDED--To watch children on day of game and to take to game. 
Meeting Tues.--7:00 LaFORTUNE LOBBY--2nd FLOOR 
So-uth Bend's Newest 110V2 N. Main 
THE RED DOOR CLUB 
BEER * WINE * LIQUOR 
NO Night every Tuesday 
!" 
~ 
!:
;;· 
::T
!:
Memberships Available 
ANB :;·"' 

~· 
·­
OPEN llam to 3om 
;washington 

BIRTH DEFECTS 
Film and discussion on theNation's number 2 destroyer of life. Tuesday, October 17, 7:OOpm LaFortune Rm-1 c 
National Foundation--March ·of Dimes 
~c 
The National Players in 

Aristophanes "THE BIRDS" 
1st. of Dance and Drama Series 
8 P.M. 
Oct. 17th Olaughlin 
ALL SEATS GENERAL ADMISSION $3.00 
PATRONS FREE-PATRON CARDS $7.00 
Advanced tickets on sale at C.A.C. Office 
Student Union .Ticket Office-American 
National Bank and Branches­
Witmer-McNease Music -AI Smith's Records Pandora's and Jennifer's. 

ADS 
NOTICES 

Typing: Essay-term paper-thesis desertation -technical or research report-we do them professionally, efficiently, and reasonable. 
Expert Secretarial Service. 233­9466 or 233-3257 
St. Mary's Study Tour, England, Ireland, Scotland, Wales, Dec. 27­Jan. 16, 2 History credits available, Open to St. Mary's and Notre Dame students. For details contact Professor Black (4948) or (272-3726 
HELP the helpless unborn, with time, money, or both. Right-to­Life, Inc. 233-4295 
Morrissey Loan Fund. Borrow up to $150. La Fortune. Basement. Open 11 :'15-12:15 Monday thru Friday 
Does your club or organization need cheap transportation in the Michiana area?? Ride th~ "Blue Beasty." Call Crew Club, 6309 or 8825. "We have no limits." 
FOR SALE 

Misc. for sale: Kitchen set (table & 4chairs) 35" by 47" $28.00, 2 end tables and coffee table $27.00, 120 lb. wt. set $17.00, mens golf shoes size 8 like new $5.00, davenport and matching chair $85.00, size 15" Good year surbunite snow tires like new $50.00. ($140 value new) call 291-4063 
3 student Pitt tix for sale . 3252 
For Sale: Period 7-drawer Walnut kneehole desk with matching chair $40.00 259-9659 
'67 Ford 6, 4 door, Automatic, call Walt, 233-8176 
Chevy Impala, 66, extremely good condition. one family car. call 
Holy Cross House. 283-6337 
68 Cougar XR7; V-8 397 engine, air, automatic, power steering, disc. brakes, snow tires on rims $1350.00 Call 234-0610 after 5 and weekends. 
Carpet ll'by 12' For sale. Light brown $20. Call 233-4654 after 5PM 
LOST AND FOL'ND 

Lost: One gold initial disk. Please call Meg 5333 
Lost ring in Niewland Sci Hall if found please call 1619 
Lost Leather Wallet. Around Madeleva or Shuttle bus. ID's needed. Tim 7850 
Lost; Gold omega watch, In· scribed. Call 3046 
WANTED 
Need one Missouri Gen. Ad. Tick. Name your price. Call Jim 7858 
Desperately need 4 TCU. tickets. Phone 287-6010 
Need 2 Gen. Admission TCU tickets Call Frank 1943 
I  need  a  roomate.  2  headed,  
anything.  233-1329.  ?rivate.  
Gorgeous.  Keep trying.  

Need 4 General Admission tickets for TCU. Need not be together. Call John 1605 
Need 1gen. ad. ticket to TCU call 3521 
Need 3-4 non-student tickets for Missouri. Call 1244 Shawn 
Wanted: Tickets to Notre Dame­Texas Christian Game call . 289· 1163 
How about a couple Missouri tix? 
G.G.A. call Pat 3610 
Need 2 G.A. Missouri tix Call 1824 
Desperately  need  2  Gen.  Ad·  
mission tickets to Missouri.  call  
6701  

Wanted: typing, themes, manuscripts. call: Jane Smith at 233-6909 
WILL TRADE 2 TCU TICKETS FOR 2 MISSOURI TICKETS 4388 
f'aculty-ND Community Young girl who works in South Bendand Notre Dame, wishes to rent extra bedroom in your home-Call 283­
7401 
Need 2 Gen. Ad. T.C.U. Tix call 4719 
Room -mate wanted. call 232-4545 
Need two General Admission tix for Missouri Game .. Frank 8610 
Sell ND team posters this weekend. Make 50 cents each. No investment. Call Bob at 1204 tonight between 7-8:30. 
FOR RENT 
Rooms-Nice Home, close to town­for football weekends $6.00 per person. 232-2989 after 6 p.m. 
Words Ida 2da 3da 4da 5da 1-10 .65 .95 l.15 1.35 1.55 11-151.001.501.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 


the observer Monday, october 16, 1972 

Sluggish Irish whip Pitt. 42-16 
by Jim Donaldson Taking over at the 20 following fense in gear once the second half Sports Editor Knisley's field goal try, the Irish started. After a short Cliff Brown Notre Dame showed visiting were unable to pick up a first down kickoff, Pitt drove 61 yards in 13 Pittsburgh some Christian charity and Brian Doherty dropped back to plays to score, Hogan flipping a 
Saturday afternoon but the Pan­punt. The Panthers made an all two-yard pass to Janasek for the thers apparently felt it better to out effort to block the boot (they touchdown. give than to receive and &01., had deflected Doherty's first kick Hogan had also made a critical Fighting Irish won a mistake­of the day> but missed the ball and fourth down pass just two plays 
filled, 42-16 decision before the tackle Glenn Hyde bumped earlier, finding Todd Toerper open usual capacity crowd of 59,075 in Doherty, resulting in a 15 yard at the three yard line, to set up the Notre Darrie Stadium. penalty which enabled the Irish to scoring play to Janasek. 
Father Hesburgh might have keep the football. The Panthers kicked the extra been proud of the gentlemanly way Eight plays later, Andy Huff point but were penalized on the in which the boys entrusted to his hulled over left guard for Notre play and forced to try again from 
care shared the football with their Dame's first touchdown and Bob the eight. This time, they faked the guests but coach Ara Parseghian Thomas added the extra point with kick and Hogan, rolling to his was none too pleased by Notre 3:41 left in the quarter. right, fired a strike to Englert, just Dame's show of generosity. Darryll Dewan picked up 25 inside the goal line, for the two 
"I was very disappointed in the yards in the drive, which was point conversion. 

number of turnovers we had," highlighted by a nifty bit of It appeared that Pitt might be Parseghian said after watching the scrambling by Clements, good for on its way to a major upset when Irish lose possession four times on 23 yards, that moved the ball to the they forced the Irish to punt after fumbles and once on a pass in­Pitt six. Janasek's touchdown and drove to 
terception. Pitt fumbled the ball away to the N.D. 46. But then Mahalic "This was our poorest game for Notre Dame's Tom Freistroffer at came up with his game-breaking execution," he said. the Panther 47 on the first play play on a third and five situation. senior splitend Jim Roo!~ playing Brown, hit just as he released the 
Fortunately for Notre Dame, after the ickoff but the Irish gave it "We were in man coverage," instead of the injured Willie ball, made an errant pitchout Pittsburgh was only too ready to back at the 16 yard line five plays Mahalic explained later, "and I Townsend, had put the ball in which the Pantthers recovered at respond in kind to any Irish favors. later when Dewan fumbled and had the fullback, who ran a delay scoring position. the N.D. one. Two plays later, 
Two key Panther penalties Rod Kirby recovered. out of the backfield. A good pass Freistroffer set up Notre Dame's quarterback Bill Daniels snuck enabled Notre Dame to sustain Pitt was unable to move for a rush made the quarterback hurry fifth touchdown with a fumble into the end zone. He also added drives which resulted in a pair of first down but retained possession his pass and, when I cut in front of recovery at the Pitt 19. Roolf the two-point conversion, first half touchdowns and then, when Rudnick, after signalling for the fullback, the pass was thrown gained 12 yards on an end-around, scrambling over the goal line after after the Panthers had scored a faircatch of Tim Hornish 's punt, right to me." Gary Diminick picked up five dropping back to pass. early in the third quarter to move dropped the ball and the Panthers' Only Notre Damedefenderswere more with a sweep and Eric The victory upped seventh­within six points, 14-8, another Pitt Ernie Webster fell on it at the Irish in front of Mahalic after his in­Penick, who was limited to just 40 ranked Notre Dame's record to 4-0 miscue enabled the Irish to break :l4. terception and he breezed 56 yards yards in 13 carries, powered in while Pittsburgh slipped to 0-6. the game open. Notre Dame's defense again down the sidelines untouched to from the two and, again, Thomas 
Pitt quarterback John Hogan, stopped the Panthers cold as the put the Irish on top 20-8 with 3:36 booted the point after. Swim tryoutswho had passing problems all quarter ended, and Knisley's left in the quarter. Thomas again Freshman halfback Art Best afternoon. fired a perfect strike to second field goal try, from 40 yards converted. completed the scoring for the Irish, 
slated today
Notre Dame linebacker Drew out and into the wind, fell far short. The Panthers were never really sprinting 56 yards for a touchdown 
Mahalic. and the sophomore The Irish began to click of­in the game after that. Huff added on a reverse play, with 3: 13 All freshmen and upperclassmen defensive signal caller raced 56 fensively after that and drove to his third touchdown early in the remaining. It was the first time who were not on the swimming yards untouched for the third Irish the Panther 33 before Ed Mar­fourth quarter, bouncing off a Best had carried the ball for Notre team last year, and are interested touchdown. stellar picked off a Tom Clements would-be tackler and into the end Dame in a varsity game. in trying out for the squad, should 
!<'rom then on. Notre Dame pass intended for Mike Creaney at zone from four yards out. A 34-Pitt got on the scoreboard again report to the swimming pool in the dominated play, rolling for three the nine. yard pass play from Clements to in the final minute of play after Rockne Memorial today at 4 p.m. fourth quarter touchdowns before Marstellar's theft only saved the Pittsburgh .............. 0 8
0 8-16 
the Panthers made the final score Panthers temporarily as Notre Notre Dame ............ 7 7 7 21-42 Jim Donaldson======================================================================================================== a hit more respectable by Dame scored the next time they 
NO -Andy Huff, I run (Thomas
registering a last minute tally and had the ball, but not without a bit of 
kirk)

two-point conversion. help from Pitt. NO -Andy Huff, 4 run (Thomas 
The Irish Eye
Actually, the score wasn't in­Following a short punt by kirk) 

p -Dave Janasek, 2 pass from John
dic1tive of the closeness of the Hornish that went out of bounds at Hogan (Englert, pass from Hogan) contest. Had Pittsburgh not fallen the Pitt 41, Notre Dame had NO -Drew Mahallc, 56 interception 
returns (Thomas kick) 
into its season-long habit of beating marched to the 20 before stalling. 

Andy !luff. 4 run (Thomas kirk) ;=======================================================Pitt teaches N D a Iess on
itself with mistakes, the Irish Thomas came on to try a field goal NO -Eric Penick 2 run (Thomas might have found themselves from 37 yards away and missed, kick) Notre Dame's young football team left N.D. Stadium a more mature,
NO-Art Best, 56 run (Thomas kick) 
trailing at halftime, rather than but the Panthers had jumped off NO-Bill Daniels I run (Daniels run) wiser. and fortunately, still unbeaten ball club Saturday afternoon. leading, 14-0. side on the play and the subsequent AU-59,075 The Irish had won their fourth game of the season, beating Pittsburgh 
After failing to cross midfield the five yard assessment gave the by a convincing score of 42-16, but things hadn't gone according to plan. first two times they had the foot­Irish a first down. Individual It had all seemed so easy prior to the start of the game. Mter all, the ball. the Irish gave the Panthers a Dewan carried twice, gaining 12 Panthers were 0-5. They had been beaten by North western, a team the break on what should have been yards, then Huff powered in for his Statistics Irish drubbed, and only the week before had been pushed around by their third possession. second score of the afternoon. Tulane. losing 38-6. Notre Dame had won its first three games, against
NOTRE DAME
Timmy Rudnick returned a Pitt Thomas' conversion came with RUSHING-DamII Dewan. 17 for 67 Big Ten competition, and was coming off a hard fought win over its long­
7:05 remaining. yards; Art Best. I lor 56, I TO; Tom
punt 11 yards from his own 12 but time and always dangerous rival, Michigan State.
Clements, 7 for 42; Eric Penick. 13 for
fumbled the ball away when he Neither team threatened again 40. 1TD; Russ Komman. 2 for 36; Andy Pittsburgh hadn't come close to beating the Irish in seven years and was hit. Bill Englert and the in the first half but the Panthers Huff. 6 for 30. 3 TDs; John Cieszkowski, Notre Dame was ruled the 30 to 33 point favorite by the oddsmakers. The 
5 for 23; Jim Roolf, I for 12; Gary
Panthers' Dave Janasek wasted no time getting their of-Irish figured to win in a breeze.
Oiminirk. 1 for 5; .Cliff Brown, I for ·19.
recovered at the 26. Total. !i.'i for 292. But that was far from being the case. Plagued by turnovers <the Irish Hogan moved the ball inside the PASSING -Tom Clements. 7 out of lost four fumbles and one intereption), Notre Dame led the Panthers only
ND hockey, b-ba/1 16. 95 yards. I interception; Cliff
23 on a keeper but then threw two 14-8 midway through the third period and needed a 56-yard interception 
Brown. 0 out of 2.incomplete passes and Eric RECEIVING -Mike Creaney, 3 for return for a touchdown by Drew Mahalic to break the game open. Pitt 
Jim Roolf.
Knisley came on to attempt a field 51 vards; I for 34; Dave almost caught the Irish napping.
tickets available Cas)X'r. 1 for 6; Gary Diminick. 2 for 4.
goal, which went wide from the 29. PUNTING -!Irian Doherty, 1 for Coach Ara Parseghian had warned his squad all week about that After disdaining to make use of Season basketball and hockey 34.5 average. possibility, but it's not an easy task to convince the nation's seventh­
RETURNS -Punts: Tim Rudnick, 2
Notre Dame's favor, the Panthers tickets will be available at the ranked team that an 0-5 club can pose a problem.
for 11 yards: Bob Zanot. I for 7; Kenoffered one to the Irish shortly second floor ticket windows of the Srhlrzes, 2for 0. Kickoffs: Gary Oimin­"One of the most difficult jobs for any football coach is to convince his 
thereafter which N.D. used to its ACC Monday and Tuesday bet­irk. 1 for 22; Oarryll Dewan, I for 18; team that games are won on the field and not in the newspapers befor­
Bob Zanot, I for 0. Interceptions: Drew
advantage. ween 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. Mahalic, 1 for 56, 1 TO; Mtke Town­ehand," Parseghian remarked. ''Today's game with Pitt was a perfect send, I for 0. example of how tough and hard-nosed a team can be that lost its first five 
PITTSBURGH 
games.

RUSlliNG -Stan Ostrowski, 21 for 74 
vards; Bill Englert. 8 for 30; Dave Mahalic, the game's hero, hadn't felt that Pitt would prove to be so Janasek. 6 for 15; Dan Smith, 3 for 6; 'ough, nor so "high."Bruce Murphy. I for 2; Jo!tn Hogan, 3 
Hoop squad opens workouts 
Notre Dame's 1972-73 basketball throughout the 1971-72 season. "They were very enthusiastic," he said. "For an 0-5 team, I sure didn't 
for -11; Bill Daniels, 8 for ·50, I TO. 
team, hopeful of giving coach Novak, a talented 6-7 junior from Total, 51 for 66. think they would have so much emotion. But they came out after us." Digger Phelps an improvement in LaSalle. Ill., led the 6-20 Irish in PASSING -John Hogan, 7 out of 22. Fullback Andy Huff, who scored three touchdowns, echoed Mahalic's
59 vards, I TD. I interception. 
the won-lost ledger over last year, scoring and rebounding with 19.5 RECEIVING -Todd Toerper. 3 for sentiments. opened pre-season practice Sun­and 10.3 averages respectively. 26 vards; Stan Ostrowski, I for 19; "We were pretty flat today. I'd say we were guilty of looking past Pitt. 
Larice Wall, I for 9; Dave Janasek, 2 for
day in the Athletic and Con­It's when we play them one at a time that we're at our best." 
Phelps will be working with a 4.1 TD.

vocation Center. PUNTING-Tim Homish. 10 for 41.3 Notre Dame's offense, which had been so devastating in the teams
total of four seniors, six juniors,

Phelps, starting his second year average. victories over Northwestern and Purdue but had beenlargelycontained by
five sophs and two freshmen -RETURNS -Punts: Bruce Murohv. 
as the Irish cage boss, welcomed 17 2 for 5: !Iill Oaniles. I for 3; Rod Kirby, Michigan State, certainly didn't return to top form against the Panthers. candidates at the opening sesson -6-9 Roger Anderson<Minneapolis, 1 for 0: Kickoffs: Ron Siego, I for IH; "You've got to get everything perfect on the field or it just won't work,'' 
Minn. land 6-10 Myron Schuckman Leslie Block, I for 15; Interceptions:
Sunday afternoon. Another offensive tackle and co-captain John Dampeer remarked. "Football is
Ed Marstellar, I for 0.
workout followed in the evening. (McCracken, Kan.). just that way. We ran like a machine the first two weeks so everybody Single sessions are then scheduled Three sophomores expected to Team Statistics thinks that's the way it should be. Sure, we're striving to do things per­until the opener December 2 at give considerable help to the Irish, N.D. Pitt fectly, but it dowsn 't always work out that way." Michigan. will be 6-3 Garv Brokaw (New First Downs .... . 21 9 "Although we were consciously saying that we were ready for our best 
Rushing ........... . 14 6
"We'll stress fundamentals at Brunswick. N.J.): 5-11 Dwight Clay 4 3 pffort against Pitt, we were flat subconsciously," he added. 
Passing .... .

the outset and then gradually work (Pittsburgh, Pa.), and 6-8 Peter Penalties .... . 3 0 Being flat isn't a luxury that a Notre Dame team can afford. Nobody into other phases of the game," Crotty <Rockville Centre, N.Y.). Yards Rushing .. 325 135 that ever plays the Irish comes into the game flat --they're always up,
Lost Rushi ng . . . .. 33 69
said Phelps, the personable Irish Brokaw led the frosh in scoring Net Rushing. 292 66 because beating Notre Dame can make any club's season. When a team coach who spent his rookie cam­last year with a nifty 28.3 average. Times Carried !i.'i 51 meets Notre Dame. it's never "just another ball game." 
18 22
Passes

paign at Notre Dame with an Others reporting for practice Although Notre Dame won by a large margin, it was Pitt that taught the 
Completed .. 7 7inexperienced team. include seniors Bill Hinga, Bill Had Intercepted .... I 2 Irish a lesson. One that cost them nothing and should help them in sub­
Included among the returning Lucas and Don Silinski; juniors Yards Passing .. 95 59 sequent weeks.
Total Plays 73 73
players are six lettermen but two Tom Hansen, Greg Schmelzer, InterceoUon:; ....... . 2 I Missouri, battered 62-0 by Nebraska Saturday, comes into Notre Dame of them --Willie and Mike Town­Chris Ste•·.!ns and Ken Wolbeck, Yards returned ... . 56 Stadium next weekend with a 2-3 record. On paper they shouldn't come 
0 Punts ....... . 7 JO
send --are with the Irish and sophomores Tom Varga and dose to beating the Irish. But as proven by Pittsburgh, the game is
Punting avg,. ' .... . 34.5 41.3
footballers and will not report until John Shumate. Shumate, 6-9, 235 Punts returned ..... . 5 4 decided on the field. the grid season is finished. missed last year because of illness Yaroo Returned ... . 18 8 Notre Dame has learned that fact almost the hard way. It'll be fresh in 
Kickoffs ret.yds .... . 3-40
Of the four other lettermen, only alter averaging 22.4 ppg, as a frosh 5-98 
Penalties-yds ....... . 3-45 4-30 their minds when Missouri lines up for the opening kickoff. Watch what one Gary Novak, started two years ago. Fumbles-lost ....... . ~ !;.2 happens to the Tigers. 











