
~--~----~----------------------------------------------~------------------------------~-------·-------­
Mild temperatureswith rain this afternoon. Lull before the ... 


serving the notre dame -saint mary's college community
Vol. VI, No. 60 
Thursday, January 20, 1972 
Merger negotiations to resume 

Sister Alma resigns effective this August 
SMC to pay ND $150,000 
The executive committee of the Notre 
Dame Board of Trustees agreed 
Tu<'sday to resume negotiations with 
St. Mary's College on the subject of the 
unification of the two schools. 
The action followed a similar move 
by th<' St. Mary's trustees who met on 
December 18 and 19. 
Five representatives from St. Mary's 
and its Board of Trustees including 
Moth<'r Olivette Whalen and Sr. Alma 
Peter also attended the Tuesday 
meeting. 
compensation pay 
According to the official statement, 
"A cordial and extended discussion of 
unification of the two institutions took 
place." 
"It was agreed that negotiating 
teams representing the two schools would resume discussions as soon as possible after February 1," the statement concluded. 
The re-opening of negotiations followed an agreement by SMC to pay $150,000 as compensation for an in­creased teaching load on the Notre Dame faculty. 
During the fall semester, St. Mary's student credit hours at Notre Dame exceeded Notre Dame student credit hours at SMC by 2,315 hours, according to University releases. 
Le Mans Hall during the merger break­up protests: the decision has been reconsidered. 

This trend of disparity continued after the tabulation of preregistration. The disparity had increased to more than double. As of preregistration, SMC students would be taking 5,908 more hours at ND than ND students would be taking at St. Mary's. 
University Provost James Burtchaell pointed out in a statement ac­companying registration figures that "This turn of events meant that in the spring semester alone the net in­structional burden at St. Mary's College would be lightened by about one-fifth, with the work being assumed by the Notre Dame faculty." 
"Were the two schools to be charging one another according to their published fees per student credit hour, St. Mary's would incur a net debit of more than $1 million," the Provost continued. 

sr. alma rebuts 
Sister Alma contested Burtchaell 's statement, "In spite of the fact that he and Fr. Hesburgh had indicated publicly and in print that there would be no exchange of money the second semester, he stated that "events" have forced them to reconsider, however, whether this continues to be a reasonable policy." 
Alma claimed that Notre Dame of­fered SMC two alternatives disenrollment of St. Mary's students from ND classes until the exchange ratio was equal or a lump sum payment by SMC f~r credit hour difference. 
Tuesday's executive committee meeting was attended by Sr. Verda Clare, SMC Trustee; Charles Lindower, 

I I. 

Rev. James Burtchaell, Provost: St. Mary's teaching load lightened 
Comptroller and Charles Engle, SMC Trustee, in addition to Sr. Alma and Mother Whalen. 
"There was an openness and frank exchange of views and we are en­couraged that this may lead to re­opening of productive unification negotiations," Mother Whalen com­mented. 
Notre Dame Trustees at the SMC meeting were Frs. Hesburgh, Burt­chaell and Joyce, Edmund A. Stephan, chairman and Dr. Thomas Carney. 
by Ann-Thert•se Darin Obst•rver Associate Editor 
Sr. Alma Peter confirmed yesterday an Observer report that she has resigned as acting St. Mary's president effective August 1972. She tendered her resignation at the December 18 meeting of the Board of Trustees. 

In acknowledging the report, Sr. Alma indicated that she did not know what the plans of the Trustees would be in obtaining her replacement. 
"With the reinstitution of n<'gotiations for the unification of St. Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame, there may be no need for a St. Mary's president," she commented. 

Sr. Alma based her prediction on one of the December 18 resolutions passed by the Board of Trustees. The resolution says that if negotiations toward unification do not materialize, lh<'n. the chairman of the Board is authorized to initiate steps toward choosing a president. 
In announcing her decision, Sr. Alma, who has served as acting president since June, 1970, reasoned, "Ordinarily, when an acting presidnet is named by an institution, it is for a period of six months or a year. I realize that lh<'s<' arc not ordinary times at St. Mary's, but I have now been acting president for a year and a half and will have completed two years by this summer. 
"I feel it is best for St. Mary's College to have a new head for next year. I shall always be vitally interested in St. Mary's and I will do everything possible to continue the personal com­mitment that I have for unification," she concluded. 
The Board has asked Mother Olivette to immediately start contacting persons recom­mended by last year's Presidential Search Committee 
inside 
Missy Underman resigns SBVP Blantz quits post ... p.3 . ........................... p.~ New law addition planned 
Students oppose law additi~~..... p.a 
before plans for reunification. 
Sr. Alma declined to elaborate on her future plans after she leaves the presidency. The acting president did intimate, however, that she would remain within the St. Mary's-Notre Dame com­munity. 
Concerning yesterday's an­nouncement to reopen negotiations with Notre Dame, Sr. Alma opined, "I personally am very optimistic." She hoped most of the paperwork for unification could be completed by April 30. Implementation of the projects would start immediately afterward, she forecasted, and continue over a/three to five year period. 
Sr. Alma's SMC college career began in 1950 as a chemistry instructor. As an administrator, she has held offices as dean of admissions and dean of freshmen (1951), academic dean (1956), assistant to the president (1969), and acting president (1970). 


Page 2 THE OBSERVER Thursday, January 20, 1972 
I I 
live Ins · U.S. Male E 
0
0 
~·
Parra announces Chicano caucus 
Q) 
CD
L.. 
by Greg S. Pudhorodsky president of the Mexican 
u
University of California, founded will chair the caucus. Cardonas r-·Ricardo Parra, executive American Political Association the Quinto Sol student was one of the organizers of 
CD
(MAPA) in California. Gutierrez
director at the Mid-West Council organization at that school, which MECHA at thP University. 
Q) Flare and 
<
is the founder of the Mexican
of La Raza announced that on was later to become the Quinto 
u 
VI
American Youth Organization
January 22 and 23 the Midwest Sol Sol Publications. Professor Council of La Raza will hold their (MAYO) and as the founder of Alvarez is also a contributing
the La Raza Unida Political
first conference at the Muskegon editor for El Grito, a journal of 
n 
Community College in Muskegon, Party in Texas. He has been Contemporary Mexican­
0
credited with designing many of
Michigan. The Council American thought. 
3
that segment's political victories
represents the estimated one and Mrs. Gonzalez became the first 
"'0
in that state.

one-half million Mexican­Chicano to be elected to political 
c:
Professor Ramirez is a 
VI
American and Spanish­office in Michigan when she won 
member of the sociology department at the University of 
Americans in the ten state Great the position of councilwoman in 
Lake and midwest area. the municipality of Norton 
Colorado and has been a con­
Shores. She was recently named
The conference will key on sultant in community 
Community Leader of America
outstanding Raza leaders who organization for VISTA. Fierro, 
by the National Biographical
will speak at it. Among these presently a candidate for Institute.
speakers will be Bert Corona, Governor of Kansas, has among
Jose Angel Gutierrez, Salvador The Executive Director also 
his credentials the directorship of 
said that the Raza Student
Ramirex, Manny Fierrre, the Human Needs Corporation 
Caucus will be convened at this
Salvador Alvarez, and Mrs. Jane and serving as a national con­
meeting to discuss such topics as
Gonzalez. 
sultant for the Office of Economic 
greater recruitment of Raza in
Corona, a long time Mexican­
Opportunity.

America political activist, is one Midwest schools. Gil Cardenas, a of the founders and past 
Alvarez, a doctoral candidate doctoral candidate in Sociology Ricardo Parra, Chairman of the 
Sat.andSun. atl:30&
at the Berkeley campus of the at the University of Notre Dame Raza Student Caucus 7:30 
In new sen-en splt-ndor ..•
LAST NIGHT!!

Link named associate dean 
The most magnifit'ent 

''CRY UNCLE'' "THE OLDEST PROF

Provost Rev. James T. Burt­Kennedy to the office of the chief chaell has announced the ap­of Internal Revenue Service in pointment of Prof. David T. Link Washington, D.C., and served in Tomorrow! as associate dean of the Law this position for five years School effective January 15. becoming a partner in the 
Chicago law firm of Winston, ONE Of THE GREAT FILMS Of OUR TIME!
In this newly created position Link will work with Dr. Robert Strawn, Smith and Patterson. 
-ABC-TV

Gordon, vice president for ad­A member of the Law School vance studies, in the ad­faculty since August, 1970, Link is ministration of sponsored chairman of the American Bar 
r,~~~~~fohnny
programs in the Law School. Association's standing com­Link received his mittee on law and technology. undergraduate and Juris Doctor 





Got1fjs Gunf,i,t.,
degrees from Notre Dame, the ---------------1 
From the book that sold over a million copie5!
latter in 1961. He was appointed The Observer is published daily by the late President John F. during the college semester eccept 
A BRUCE CAMPBELL PRODUCTION ~ JERRY GROSS PRESENTS A CINEMATION INDUSTRIES RELEASE ~j ~ 
LESLIE 110\\1\ltll 
vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. 

OLIVIA de IIA\1LLAND
Special thanks to Beth Hall, 
STEREOPHONIC SOUND
Mary's College. Subscriptions may 

METROCOLOR ·An MGM Re-reoease
Ken Kampman, T. C. 
be purchased for $8 per semester 

Thurs., Jan. 20 '72 
from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class 

Treanor, and rick smith and 
A PAULIST DOESN'T 
Coming: Frank Zappa's "200 Motels"
Jerry Lutkus for staying when 
postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 

WAIT TO BE
things get-+!$&?-. 
46556. 

ORDAINED TO GET

Now that you can fly to Europe for peanuts, 
INVOLVED. 
here's how little you shell out to get around: 
If you think
$130 for Two Months of unlimited rail travel in 
that ordination 
Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, is something 
like graduation 

Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. -and the time 
in between is similar to marking time-then You shell out $130, and get a Student-Railpass. pean trains have some other advantages for you. They you couldn't be more mistaken. 
All you need is the bread and something to show you're take you from city center to city center, so you don't have The Paulists were founded with the belief that each man is
a bona fide student between 14 and 25. to hassle airports. And the stations are helpful homes 
a member of the community and 
Our Student-Rail pass gives you all that unlimited away from home, with Pictograms that give you informa­he contributes his own thing. rail travel on the 100,000 mile railroad networks of those tion in the universal language of signs, and dining rooms, Each is an individual with his 
own talents and he is given the
13 countries. For two foot-loose months. So with low air bookstores and other helpful facilities. 
freedom to use them in his own fares and Student-Railpass you've got Europe made. Now, here's the catch. You can't get your way. But not later. Now. Our Student-Railpass gets you Second Class Student-Railpass or the regular First Class Eurailpass in For instance, during the no­travel on our trains. You'll find that there's very little Europe-you have to get them before you leave the coun­
vitiate, novices work in such diverse areas as hospitals, voca­
second class about Second Class. Besides being com­try. So see your Travel Agent soon. Meanwhile, send in 
tional rehabilitation centers and 
fortable, clean, fast, and absurdly punctual, the Euro-the coupon for a free folder, complete with railroad map. Universities. They serve as assist­ant chaplains, co-retreat masters, student teachers and psychiatric
-----------------------------------------------------------· aides. 
Paulist Seminarians create
SJUDENJ·RAILPASS The way to see Europe without feeling like a tourist. 
recreational programs, direct Eurailpass is valid in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, "Days of Recollection" for CCD 
students, direct film series, ex­
Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. 
periment with the use of media Eurailpass, Box 90, Lindenhurst, New York 11757. in the liturgy as a preaching tool, 
originate and edit the Paulist
Please send me your free Eurailpass folder with railroad map. 0 Or your Student-Railpass folder order form. 0 
Free Press, coordinate Lenten lectures and organize Home Name._______________Street_____________________ Masses, to mention just a few. 
When you commit yourself to 

the Paulists, it isn't a someday thing. It's now. Today. 
For more information about the Paulists write to: Rev. Don­ald C. Campbell, C.S.P., Voc.-. tion Director, Room 300. 

paliSffcthets. 
415 West 59th Street New York, N.Y. 10019 





Underman resigns after split with Barlow 

THE OBJECT OF THZ DEBATE: 'The 'Dean of the Notre Dame Law School, Thomas Shaffer, announced today a $1.6 million addition to the present law building. The Student Bar Association has come out in 
opposition to the move. 

Shaffer announces law school addition 

by Ed Ellis Observer Associate Editor 
Saint Mary's Student Body Vice-President Missy Underman resigned from her position in Student Government shortly before Christmas because of a "conflict of philosophy" between herself and SBP Kathy Barlow. 
In her statement of resignation, Miss Underman referred to a "select few" who made all the decisions in student government and then " merely informed" the rest of the student government of what was to be done on a given issue. 
In an interview last night, she said, "There is a small clique making all the decisions, and that clique is not representative of the student body at 
large." She also contended that, "there was a conflict of philosophies, ideals, personalities, and ways of going about things." 
Miss Underman's letter is on page 12 
"When we ran or office together last year, I thought this would be good, because we would balance each other's personalities. For this to work we both had to work, we both had to work together and keep lines of communication open. This was not done. 
"By my staying," said Miss Underman, "I would be condoning both Kathy's philosophy and her methods. I resigned so that I would no longer have 



E OBSERVER
SerPing the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College Omummity 
Thursday, January 20, 1972 


any part of that student government." . 
Miss Underman said that other students m student government agreed with her, and that several times the:v had tried to talk to Miss Barlow. 
Opposes expansion 
SBA fights law school p~an 
concurred that the simple ad-
by Jt>rry Lutk~s. dition to the building was 
Obst•rvt•r Nt>ws Edttor .. t' . . th ld" nd 
Thl' Executive Board of the con mumg 10 e mo a Student Bar Association last they felt that to break the mold, night protested the decision to the Jaw school must either build cx~a.n~ the present la.w buildi.ng a new plant or transfer to another 
facthttes. SBA prestdent Ttm building. llartzcr, President of the SBA 1-Iartzer said that the reopening voiccd the Board's "strong op-of the merger negotiations position.". ~aying , "by expa~d!ng brought them more hope. "We the facthhes were commtttm~ will continue to pursue the the law school to a status that It possibility of using a building will likely retain for the future." already on campus." In par­
ticular, 1-Iartzer welcomed thellartzer said he felt that the possible use of Madaleva Hall asissue could very well be a a good facility for the law school. 
"tempest in a teapot". "We've There is widespread discontent been arguing this for about a year wilh the decision, according to 
now and they've gone ahead with the plan. Maybe it's too late," he contended. "They've all but gone ahead and dug the hole." 
llartzer and Mike Bradley, President of the second year dass, contended that the move commits the law school to an "unprogressive philosophy." Jlartzer felt that the Notre Dame Law School had the image of a "small, unprogressive Mid­western School." He said that' "they're freezing the law school into what it is now. They"re perpetuating the image." 
Bradley noted that his class will be alumni in two years and contended that they hope to have gra11uated from a "progressive t>ducative school." "The school has a continuing effect on our careers as we go along," 1-Iartzer argued. 
The two law school leaders the SHA prestdent. lt pervadesall levels of the law school. There exists controversy at every area 
of the school." Hartzer claimed that there are many faculty members equally dissatisfied with the move. 
"There is no strong sense of personal conflict or vin­dictiveness here. It's just that many people are confused and uninformed." 
Dean Shaffer has been very 
available, according to Hartzer, but there has been a lack ?f "tremendous student concern m terms of numbers." 
The Student Bar Associations 
(Continued on page 4) 
Dean Shaffer: The renovations are a "definite move" towards placing the Law School on the same level as other schools. 
"She never changed." 
Insiders reported that the conflict between the two leaders has been growing all year. According to Miss Underman, the breaking point came during the protest activities immediately preceeding the Christmas vacation. 
"Kathy never solicited my opinion, "she said. "I felt I had to be there 24 hours a day to make my opinions heard." 
"When the four girls were picked to go to the Board of Trustees meeting, I was never consulted. The decision was made and I was told about it af­terwards." 
In her statement, Miss Underman said that all segments of the student body were not being represented in student government because of the control of the decisions by the select few. She charged, "Some of the student leaders have con­tinuously ignored the major portion of the student body and instead have used their positions to ad­vance their personal philosophies and ambitions." 
"The Vice-President," she said, "must be able to trust those with whom she works. My trust, par­ticularly in the President, no longer exists." 
"I can no longer compromise my personal values to fit those of others, and I can no longer work for ideals or actions that I do not believe in." 
Former Saint Mary's student Body President Ann Marie Tracey said that "the problem is one of communication." 
"Jean Gorman and I had serious disagreements about things," she said, "but we tried to cooperate and things worked out." 
Miss Tracey said that apparently Kathy Barlow was not trying hard enough to maintain com­munication, and that Missy's resignation was the ly alternative. 
Kathy Barlow, the person to whom most of the criticism was directed, said that she did not get the the formal resignation until this week, and that she would comment today. 
She said, "It's unfortunate that it had to happen." 


by Jim Roe 
Dean Thomas Shaffer of the Notre Dame Law School announced today a $1.6 million addition to and general moder­nization of the present Law Building. 
The project, Schaffer said, will be up for bids in April and con­struction will commence in June with scheduled completion before August of 1973. The addition, which will be constructed to the East of the Law School, will approximately double the usable space in the Law Building, ac­cording to Schaffer. This new space will be used primarily for library expansion. 
Included in the renovations are additional study areas and seminar rooms, and a large student lounge. The entire Law Building will be air-<:onditioned and the classrooms will be remodeled to allow multiple use. 
Along with the new addition the Law School will reduce 

enrollment from its current 500 to 
about 400. 

According to Dean Shaffer 
these moves, coupled with the 
increase in application, will allow 
the Law School to choose from 
the top prospects. Dean Shaffer 
considered the renovations a 
"definite move" to place the 
Law School on the same level as 
other highly ranked schools. 

Pledges will cover most of the 
costs. $208,000 of the estimated cost will be paid from a federal construction grant Dean O'Mara securedinl967.Thefederalgrand was due to expire in June of 1972 had the building project failed to materialize. The deadline, Shaffer said, combined with the acute lack of library space to necessitate the construction of the new building this summer. The architecture of the new addition will conform, "as much as possible," with the present Law Building, Shaffer claimed. 

20o/o Discount on ALL skiis 
lYamaha, Blizzard, Fisher, Northland) 
STARRING JANE FONDA • MICHAEL SARRAZIN • SUSANNAH YORK 
Discounts Also on Some Ski Boots 
GIG YOUNG • BONNIE BEDELIA AND RED BUTTONS

.d E . "L Sk.''
F r1 ay ventngs : earn to 1 
A PALOMAR PICTURE * A CHARTOFF WINKLER/POLLACK PRODUCTION * SCREENPLAY BY JAMES POE AND ROBERT E. THOMPSON * 
BASED ON THE NOVEL BY HORACE McCOY * ASSOCIATE PRODUCER-MUSIC JOHN GREEN * EXECUTIVE PRODUCER THEODORE B. 
SILLS * PRODUCED BY IRWIN WINKLER AND ROBERT CHARTOFF * DIRECTED BY SYDNEY POLLACK

$6.00 
PRESENTED BY THE 

Includes transportation, Tow ticket, one hour of instruction, ski and boot rental. Free parking. Bus 
CULTURAL ARTS COMMISSION 
leaves from U.S. Leisure at 5:00 pm, returns at 
10:45 pm: CALL FOR RESERVATIONS 684-0750 
Saturday, Jan. 23 Sunday, Jan. 24 
8:00 & 1O:Ou O'Laughlin Aud. 
Admission: $1 .00 Fund Raising Film Patrons Free 


Page 4 
Will stay school year 
Blantz Steps Down 
by M. Baum Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, 
· president of Notre Dame, has announced the resignation of Rev. Thomas E. Blantz, C.S.C. from the post of Vice President for Student Affairs. Fr. Blantz resigned after two years in the position to return to his activities as assistant professor of history and University Archivist. Fr. Blantz, holder of a masters degree from Notre Dame, and a doctorate from Columbia, received a leave of absence from his academic post and was ap­pointed to the Vice-Presidential office for two years. He ex­plained that he felt his other duties, especially teaching, would suffer if he continued in the 
,.. 
~#~} 

(Continued from page 3) 
will circulate copies of their statement at the law meeting today in Washington Hall. Hartzer hopes that they will be given the chance to read it before 
the Assembly. 
The statement contends the decision for the addition was made. without the following considerations: 
''1) the likelihood of intolerable noise disruption during the school year; 
"2) the possibility of the total 
cost exceeding $1.6 million; 
"3) the short term adequacy of 
a 150,000 volume library; 
"4) the relatively small saving 
of a $200,000 grant by proceeding 
immediately, as compared to the 
long term impact on the law ' 
school; · 
"5) the effect of a reduction in 
student body size on tuition costs; post much longer. Citing the ever-increasing new researches in his field, Fr. Blantz said, "I'm afraid that if I stayed away too long I might find it too difficult to go back to history. Two years seemed a very suitable period." 
Fr. Blantz also contended that a considerable amount of work was necessary to maintain and direct the University archives, remarking, "We have one of the best Catholic archives, the office should not be vacant." He said that on the whole he preferred teaching to the administrative work, adding, "This has been a very satisfying position, but my whole background, training, has been in history, so it's not sur­prising that I would prefer
-

"6) the effectof the proposal or previously announced. plans for a graduate law program and distinguished visting lecturers and professors; 
"7) the potential negative impact of the proposal on faculty recruitment; 
"8) the relationship of this decision to a commitment to excellence at this university and in the community of national law schools." 
The Association plans further 
to have a referendum on Friday 
to determine exactly how the 
student body of the law school 
feels about the announced ad· 
dition. 
Hartzer said that they still have 
hope. "We haven't given up yet. 
The decision isn't complete!) 
irreversible and they haven't 
begun to dig the hole yet." 
teaching to the Vice Presidency." Considering his past two years· in the Student Affairs office, Fr. Blantz said he found the work 
"interesting, especially the contacts with students, and very satisfying. As to whether or not iI the two years have been fruitful, 
I'll let somebody else judge." 
Fr. Blantz's successor in Student Affairs and in the at­tendant position on the Board of Trustees will be chosen by a 
search  committee  headed  by  
Rev.  James  J. McGrath,  C.  
.. S.C.,  associate  professor  of  

biology. The committee also includes SBP John Barkett, Rev. David B. Burrell, C.S.C., chairman of the Department of Theology; Dr. Philip J. Fac­cenda, vice president and general counsel to the University; James 
W. Frick, vice president for development and public relations; Dr. Thomas L. Shaffer, dean of the Law School, and Jeanne Swartz, chairman of the Ladies of Notre Dame faculty­student committee. 
ACADEMY AWARD WINNE.R 
GIG YOUNG BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR JANE FONDA BEST ACTRESS OF THE YEAR 
New York Film Crit!cs 
BEST PICTURE OF THE YEAR 
National Board of Review 
No hassle. Slip into the action with better vision without bother. Contact lenses help you see better, keep you looking great. Feel free to join the action with contact lenses ... You get better looking at 
Union. 


-· .. ·-·-_____iiiiiiii_____ 


Thursday, January 20, 1972 
THEP~J~~~E_R________________________________~~a~~s 
._

Letters 10 ihe Editor 
l<:ditor: 
I was very disappointed to see in the Dec. 6 issue of The Ob­server a practical advertisement on p. 7 soliciting funds for a group known as The Buffalo. This group is accused of conspiracy, theft of government property and burglary in a draft records raid in Buffalo, New York. When asked to plead guilty or not guilty, they replied with the following statement: 
"Simply stated, we stand for life, love, laughter, music, good friends, air, sunshine, all things green, living, and beautiful." 
Well, Amen! I'm surprised "mom and applie pie" aren't on thz list of things they are for! Do you suppose they really feel they arc unique in being for these simple fundamental human joys'? Do you suppose they really feel that belief in these ideas con­stitute a genuine reason for destruction of property'? Do you suppose they really feel that "the state" and its evil, villainous leaders are utterly againsh such joys of life and bent on "per­petuating such social evils as war and poverty and prison?" Is this merely propaganda or actual self-delusion'? 
d. d h h Ob Editor:
I am lst~esse t at t e -To the administrations and serve~ ~eels 1t owes thes~ ~odern trustees of St. Mary's (formerly day Vlgllant~s.such pubhc1ty. Yes Notre Dame West) and Notre I mean v1gllantes. For ~he Dame (formerly St. Mary's Buffalo and_ other groups _hke East) 1 wish to say thank you. them fall mto the classical y ' f us are quite 
. "I t ld If d 't l"k ou see, many o
v1g1 an e mo : you on 1 e "th s me of us are 
. d angry WI you. o
the way Iaws are bemg rna e or · · g aga1·nst you st
· even orgamzm . .
d k

enforce , then ta e the law n~to Mary's students are threatening your own hands and to hell with t t .k · st you So 1 s· y
everyone else. For after all they 0 s. n e agam · <. 
' . agam thank you.
~The Bu~fal~) p?ssess a s~penor Thank you, for now 1 recognize sense of JUstJc~ ~nd morahty _an~ St. Mary's students as being mu_st obey a higher a~thonty more than that nebulous group of wh1ch they ~lone determme. what females riding the shuttle bus or th~t authonty demands without participaling in the nightly gomg th~ough ~he hassle of fashion show at th4 library. d~m?cratJc el~ctJ_ons and co~-Thank you, for 1 am beginning vl~cmg a _maJority that their to realize that there might just be ways are nght. No, thzy alone f ung ladies (excuse
"h. h a ew more yo
k h t th t

now . ~. a a lg er the chauvinism) like Miss Barlow 
authon.ty wa_n~s. Afterall, wh~t at St. Mary's trying to obtain does ol Jo~ C1hzen know w~at IS what is rightfully theirs. moral a~d JUSt when he contmues Once more 1 say thank you. 
to vot~. 1~ support of a s~ate that Thank you, for you have given us has a diet of death, rac1sm, and derwhi"ch to unite You 
f " R" ht B ff I ? W It a cause un · 
_ear. •g, u a 0 · rong. have establishsd an atmosphere JUSt doe~n t work out that way. nearlv as electric as thwt which That hne . has been used xisted on this campus in May
througho!lt h1story for t~e wrong 
~970 _ 

reasons JUSt too many times. You have miraculously shaken us from our doldrums. God knows Sincerely, you must have spent many wee 
Paul Hanson hours of the morning scheming to emerge with a cause which could 
pierce through our numbed bodies and into our hearts. Starving humans in Pakistan could not move us, Vietnam could oo longer move us, surely parietals could not move us. 
Only you have somehow awakened us. And now that you have provided the spark, possibly the flame will spraad onward to the more important battles which need to be won. 
And so, a final thank you. Thank you for saying, "Thank you, Park-Mayhew, but no thank you," --but no thank you. Stephen Hutchison 619 South Bend 'Ave. 
Editor: 
We the undersigned, as part of 
the Notre Dame-St. Mary's group 
in Rome, wish to express our 
deepest regret and extreme 
disappointment over the recent 
decision to postpone the merger 
between Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's. 
A majority of the girls here are 
seriously considering tran­
sferring from St. Mary's because 
of this decision. Almost everyone 
has already written letters of 
protest to varoous people, in­clueing Sr. Mary Alma, the Board of Trustees and our parents or will be doing so in the very near future. 

After reading clippings from The Observer and other newspapers, we strongly support the actions recommended and taken By Kathy Barlo and the student body--we only wish we could be there to help. 
This letter was signed by 30 women in the SMC Rome program-Ed. 
r 

on campus today... 
7: 00--meeting, new reporters for the ob­server, Iafortune second floor ballroom 
7:00 & 10: 00--movle, woodstock, washington hall 
7: 30--meetlng, old observer reporters, Iafortune ballroom 
Start the New Year off right ... 

Mini-Kool Refrigerators 
just $6.25 a month* 
Enjoy life a little more this term with a compact, • GUARANTEED SERVICE BY ON-CAMPUS, dependable Mini-Kool refrigerator in your room. STUDENT-RUN AGENCY It holds two cubic feet of food and beverages. 
• LIABILITY PROTECTION-for an extra $1,.

The price is right, and you get these valuable you're protected against loss by fire or theft.
Mini-Kool extras: • PURCHASE OPTION-75% of your rent 
• FREE PICK-UP AND DELIVERY applies toward purchase price. 
Don't Delay... Supply is limited! Call 288-2519 
alpha phi omega 
•Rental, plus a $10.00 refundable damage deposit that earns interest, is payable in advance for the semester. The monthly fi ure is arrived at b roration. 
THE OBSERVER

Page 6 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
t<:ditor-in-Chief, Glen S. Corso Assistant Editor 
Assistant Editor 

All successful newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
ceaselessly querulous and 
bellicose. They never defend 
Rusiness Manager anyone or anything if they can help 
Advl.'rtising Manager Jim Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

B us in e s s : 2 8 3 -7 4 7 1 News: 283-1715 
Si. Mary's :must face reality 
Curious. All the gymnastics; all the histrionics; all the cries of honor violated and honor defended; all of St. Mary's proud defiance has been washed away over the three-week vacation. The College has been severely dosed by reality, and the strangely subdued tones of St. Mary's spokesmen now make an interesting contrast to the showy anger of December's rhetoric. 
Sister Alma has resigned as St. Mary's president; according to her, the presidential search committee will make no great rush to find a successor. Trustee Neil McCluskey, perhaps the college's most articulate spokesman, recently blamed not only Notre Dame intransigence but St. Mary's "unreasonableness" for the merger's temporary power failure. 
But what specifically was the "unreasonableness?" Father McCluskey's statement regrettably stopped at that point. Other, unofficial, but highly reliable sources paint a far more gaudy picture. 
According to those sources, the Sisters of the Holy Cross find the following conditions necessary for the good order of God and man at Notre Dame: --That the St. Mary's campus maintain a constant ratio of one male to three females -indefinitely. --That for the next five years, none but senior girls live on the Notre Dame campus. --That at least one member of the Sisters of the Holy Cross be forever a Vice President of the University. 
We had hoped that they had learned. We had hoped that the student strikes, the transfers and threatened transfers, the vision of ten bleak future years before a sorry and quiet demise, had taught the administrators. and Trustrees the most basic fact of this merger's fledgling life; There can be no future for an in· dependent St. Mary's. 
But they haven't, if our sources can be believed. They haven't, if Father McCluskey finds it still necessary to warn his own board against "unreasonableness." We'll find out in February, when the Trustees will ex­change either a mass of important and useful suggestions or a welter of self­serving obfuscating polemics. We hope it will be the former; we believe it will be the former. But if it is the latter, that won't mean the project is doomed. Rasping, reluctant, slowly, and terribly deliberately, this merger is slouching towards Bethlehem to be born. 

Now you see it -now you d. on 't ­now yo!.! ~ee it again! 
Thursday, January 20, 1972 

America's Children---------­
1982?-and a Cracked C.rystal Ball 
___________Jerry Lutkus 

It's a brand new year and it would be difficult to predict the events of 1972. More impossible and implausible than that, though, would be to predict the events of a decade from now. So, if you would, look into my cracked crystal ball (actually it's only window glass, but I couldn't admit that to you) with me and let's see what this fabled prognusticator can come up with. The year is 1982... 
JANUARY -As the 250 novitiates of St. Mary's College return to campus after Christmas break, the still Acting President Sister M. Alma Peter reminds the student body that the 2:00 parietals of all students will be enforced ... The Notre Dame student body is informed by University President James T. Burtchaell that the _4_:00 hours ... 
will be enforced on the ND campus. Burtchaell tells the students that 
many a :student has been "saved by the bell" with the 4:00 hours · · · · · · 
SMC and Notre Dame re-open merger talks. Burtchaell is optimistic 
that the trustees can work something out ... South Bend is covered with 
18 inches of snow. 

FEBRUARY-Ageless Basketball Coach Digger Phelps states that 
he will retire after his first winning season. Athletic Director Ara 
Parsheigian expresses his confidence in Phelps...Notre Dame loses 
29th consecutive game 101 -32 to Slippery Rock ... Phelps signs lifetime 
contract with ND... Ageless campus politicians Gary Caruso and Ed 
Ellis square off in SBP election. Ellis vows that he won't graduate 
until he's the SBP ...Ellis wins election over Caruso 26-24 with .7 per­
cent of the student body voting. 

MARCH-ACC manager John Plouff has Convo guards throw out girl 
fencers. Plouff asks, "When will they learn? We'll have the facilities 
prepared for women in September of 1982." ... The 6000 plus female 
enrollment of ND bring famous woman lawyer Kathy Barlow to 
campus tu open court procedings against the university for 
discrimination ... Chairman of the Trustees Theodore Hesburgh cries 
that the university discriminates against no one ... The remaining 1000 
males on campus remain characteristically silent. 

APRIL -The midsemester lag continues ... Nickie's notes a slight 
decline in business...College bar owner Greg Stepic claims that his 
three Niles locations are drawing the majority of the college crowd ... 
The Sophomore Class opens a bar in Niles and the class treasury is 
flooded with cash. Sophomore Class President says that "We finally 
decided to make the move. We were lagging behind the other three 
classes who already own night spots in the Niles area"... The Observer 
calls for Burtchaell's Resignation. The ND campus suffers through it's 
!54th consecutive day without sun. 

MAY-The student body takes a day off after rumor of sunshine 
sweeps the campus ... Spring weather strikes as do the students as 
American military forces are rumored moving into New Zealand 
...SMC and ND, in hope of cooling students down, announce the an­
nual merger...SBP Ellis proposes merged student governments and 
offers a new constitution saying "I've got this great constitution that 
someone wrote years ago and nobody ever used it". ...the class of 1982 
graduates. 

JUNE, JULY. AUGUST-The summer of '82... Student body receives 
a note from President Burtchaell apologizing but explaining that a 
$2000 increase in tuition is necessary because of rising costs ... Head 
Football Coach Larry Dinardo isenthusiasticover the turnout for the 
football team. Fifty football players and two ex-cheerleaders show up 
for summer practice. 

SEPTEMBER -New semester opens ...Coach Dinardo expresses 
confiden~e in his squad but the Irish lose the opener to Northwestern 
28-14.... Dillon opens Interhall season by smashing P-F 12-0... Coach 
Dinardo is seen scouting the Dillon team. 

OCTOBER -The Observer observes its annual demise, suspends 
publication...Glen Corso miraculously appears during editorial board 
meeting and inspires the staff to suspend publication for another 
week. Corso reported to have told the staff, " , you 
might as well take another week off. Get some rest instead of putting 
out this lousy rag." ... Ageless TC Treanor appears out of the chaos to 
fill the job of editor-in-chief. In his first act, Treanor immediately 
calls again for Burchaell's resignation. 

NOVEMBER -Dinardo takes his 1-5 Irish on the road against 
traditional opponent Pitt. Larry screams about running up the score 
as Pitt thumps the Irish 50-7. Pitt head coach Ralph Stepaniak says, 
"You just can't stop these second and third teamers from scoring. 
They just want to play." ... Campus tempers fly as Burtchaell and 
Alma announce suspension of the merger. Burtchaell says that no 
blame is to be placed and that he wishes to remain a gentleman 
throughout. Alma says that the suspension was necessary for 
"financial and administrative reasons" .. Burtchaell claims that SMC 
will fold in two weeks. 

DECEMBER -The sun is seen for the last time until April as it 
disappears behind some of the gray overhanging clouds ... Sister M. 
Alma Peter announces the sale of the SMC campus to Borden's Milk 
Company ... Food Director Edmund Price heralds the sale claiming 
that now there is a ready and available source of fresh milk ... NDac­
cepts bowl bid to play in the Boardwalk Bowl against Delaware 
State .... Under Coach Stepaniak, Pitt is named number 1 team in the 
country and they accept an Orange Bowl bid to play Coach Ed Gulyas 
and his North Carolina Tarblooders ... Finals close out 1982 as the Irish 
are last seen entering a grain elevator on the North side of the campus. 
Night Editor: Dan Barrett Ken Kampman, John Abowd, Headlines: Kathy Schwille, T. C. Treanor, Lutkus, Fries Beth Hall, Joe Abell, John and Sheehan Kloos, Marty Miller Mustache.Twirling: Glen S. Layout: Maria Gallaqher, Corso 


< 

< < < 
~ 
< 
~;:::;;~ 

< 
< 
-E 


< 
( 
1111 

TONIGHT! 
for all interested writers and reporters. 
This may be your LAST 
·:>l:r~ 
~ 
~ 
... 
8:~:: 
< < 
< -E 



Page 8 THE OBSERVER 
Dacca starts to pick up the pieces 
by India in a two-week war,<c) I !In New York Times News
Ser\"ict> overcame the attempt by the 
government in West Pakista to 
crush their autonomy movement. 
"Now we feel safe," said B. B. 
Dacca, Pakistan, (Jan. 19)--Das, the Hindu superintendent of Earth is freshly turned and the the Faridpur jail, who fled into fields are planted with rice. Agile the interior to escape the fate of village men can again be seen in many of his fellows. "No one is the tops of the coconut palms, afraid now. We are now quite at legs wrapped around the trunks, home." as they tap the sar to make palm The feverish activity is the toddy, a potent country liquor. clearest of all the signs of revival Little girls are going to school this correspondent found on a once more, their scrubbed faces four-day, 300-mile trip through free of fear. the western half of the territory. 
And the flocks of vultures that When thel'akistanitroops were had circled endlessly in the here. those 'Bengalis who had not Bengali skies looking for the fled to the countryside or to India bodies of the thousands killed by would sit and· stare almost the Pakistani Army are seen only catatonically into the distance. infrequently now, for they are Silence was the morbid hallmark reduced to picking over the oc-of most communities. casion carcass of a cow or a Now the silence is broken. The horse. high-pitched laughter of the 
Those are among the abundant Bengali is once again as much a signs that the flow of life is part of the daily routine as the swiftly reviving in East Pakistan, creak of bullock carts of the which the Bengalis have slapping of clothes being washed proclaimed as the independent on rocks in the rivers. nation of Bangladesh. It is only a Most important, people are month since the Bengalis, aided doing things. No more catatonic 
Students face disciplinary action 
By Don Ruane 

Two students have been suspended, and six others are awaiting disciplinary action by the Dean of Students a result of a Dec. 4 ripoff and fight on the North Quad in which another student had hair pulled from his head. 
According to Fr. James L. Riehle, dean of students, the eight students emerged from Keenan Hall, where they had damaged hall property, and stopped near Zahm Hall where they vandalized several bicycles. 
Fr. Riehle refused to identify either the eight or the two passersby who tried to scare 
New Legal Age 
by Don Ruane 

If things go well in the Indiana legislature, every student on campus over 18 years of age will be able to sue and be sued by the time the fall semester is over, according to Rep. Arthur Hayes of Fort Wayne. 
A bill Hayes has introduced will amend all Indiana laws which currently apply to those 21 years of age and over so that they apply to 18 year olds. The bill will not contradict Federal laws requiring one to be 21 years old. 
The Indiana house, however, has eliminated the state's drinking laws from Hayes' bill. Hayes expects provisions for 18­year old drinking to be reinstated when the bill goes before the Senate for approval. 
Hayes, a Republican, said he is "confident" that his bill will pass the House this Friday when it comes up for its third reading. He says there has been some con­fusion about the bill's contents, but that there are enough votes secured for passage. It will go to the senate next. 
If the bill passes the legislature, it must be signed by each court clerk in the state's 92 counties, and then go to the governor for his signature and declaration as law. 
Barring any difficulties, such as a holdup in printing, the bill could be operative as early as August, 1972. 
Until then, the under-21s will have to rely on friends, their false IDs. and benevolent drivers who will give them a hop to Michigan on cold winter nights to get their brew. 
them off by shouting. at them The suspended students will from the quad. . have to follow regular application 
After the two shouted, Riehle procedures for readmittance to said, two of the eight started a the University next fall. Approval fight. One of the passer-sby was must be granted by both the dean dragged 20 to 50 feet by his hair, of students and their academic leaving a bald spot ap­dean. If readmHted, they will be proximately two inches in on probation for the year. diameter on his head. He also The other six are awaiting suffered badly bruised ribs. action for the damage done in 
The other student was not in­Keenan Hall. jured. All disciplinary action in the 
The incident was reported to case will be taken by Fr. Riehle Security after the victims sought since the defendants opted for a aid at the infirmary. Security private hearing before Riehle. 
apprehended the eight the next The suspended not to appear ~--------------'--------------1 
day, Riehle said. their decision, according to the 
Fr. Riehle said the eight had Dean of Students. been drinking, but not heavily, Neither the University nor the before the incident victims have pressed civil 
World Briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
WASHINGTON -President Nixon Wednesday stiffened the American policy toward nations that expropriate the holdings of Americans without adequate compensation. In a White House statement apparently directed at several Latin Americans, Nixon said nations that expropriate without compensation could assume that the United States would refuse to make new aid agreements with them. 
WASHINGTON-Retail stores with annual sales of less than $100.000, leased single -family houses, luxury apartments and apartments in some small buildings were exempted from economic controls by the cost of Living Council. The Govern­ment said the exempted businesses -75 per cent of the retail stores and more than 40 per cent of the apartments in the nation -would be kept in line by competing with their larger, controlled competitors. 
WASHINGTON-The House approved and sent to President Nixon a bill imposing the first spending limits on Presidential candidates. The legislation, aimed at holding down the cost of running for office and neutralizing the advantages of the wealthy, is expected to be signed by the President. 
WASHINGTON -William D. Ruckelshaus, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, announced that General Motors had asked for a year's postponement of the emissions standards for 1975 model cars and that he was rejecting the request pending receipt of proof that G.M. cannot meet the deadline. 
NEW YORK -Attorneys for Howard R. Hughes said they could produce witnesses to prove that a purported autobiography of the billionaire was a "hoax". They asked a state Supreme Court Justice here for a hearing. Clifford Irving, the man who compiled the purported autobiography, countered with an affidavit listing the times and places he said he met with Hughes. 
JERSEY CITY, N.J.-A State Supreme Court judge in Jersey City ruled that new Jersey's system of financing public school education with local property taxes discriminated against pupils in poor districts and was unconstitutional. The ruling, which is expected to be appealed, is similar to decisions in California, Texas and Minnesota. 
paralysis. Returning refugees an• pounding bamboo stakes into tlw ground for thatch huts. Boatmen are starting to build sampans and canoes. 
On balance, despite all the problems, the picture of life could not be called grim. Overlaying everything is the psychological factor--the people are happy, and that will help, to at least tern­porarily, ease their difficulties. 
There is also a new spirit of sharing everywhere. In every town visited, people who had come out of the occupation with 
their  homes  and  some  assets  
intact  were  helping  the  less  
fortunate.  

In Faridpur, for example, the merchants' association has been giving the poor, numbering about 4,000, a free daily meal of Khicuri, a mixture of rice, vegetable stew and mutton. They eat in shifts in an open courtyard, the food being served by mem­bers of the Mukti Bahini and other young volunteers. 
The sharpest impression one gets is that the Bcngalis'strongest asset is then charges. 
In another pre-Christmas security matter, approximately 25 students were charged with shoplifting in the bookstore, according to the dean. Without presenting specific figures, Fr. Riehle said "several offenders" were suspended, others were placed on disciplinary probation, and the remainder given a warning due to the cir­cumstances. 
No civil charges were pressed in these cases Riehle said. 
committed young people, who either fought with weapons or in other ways dedicated themselves to the struggle against West Pakistan's domination. 
Many are motivated by the fact that the Pakistanis or their civilian collaborators killed their parents. Some have lost entire families; others were forced to watch mothers and sisters being raped. 
"We are going back tocollege . and politics, we are going to fight for a society with equal op­
portunities,"  said  Mohammad  
Asbu  Jafar,  a  young  guerrilla  
le-ader  from  the  Jessore  area  

"There must be no more ex­plotia tion.'' 
The most striking evidence of the gradual return to normality is the reappearance of the women, large numbers of whom hid to escape the Pakistani's sexual appetites. Those who remained rarely ventured into the streets. 
For some people the .fear went too deep and cannot be washed away so soon. There are some who still run for shelter when a plane passes overhead. 

HAIR STYLING, LTD. 
SERVTNG THE N.D. COMMUNITY FOR OVER 4 YEARS a.... Most of us young students are wearing our long. Maybe dad and moo are not in agreement with this but if your hair's shaped by Continental, you will please both y rur parents and yet have your hair right-rn. We are specialists in long hair. Also we will treat your hair, trim the loose ends, and apply a protein solution that will condition your hair. This is a students pecial at an unbelievable low price.... many of your friends have already visited us. Call 259-7679 for APPOINTMENT 1321 E. McKinley Ave., Mish. (rext door to Normain Pharmacy) cial Student Rates Mon. and Tues 
1/2 PRICE COLOR PRINTS? 
SAVE ON SLIDES-MOVIES-B&WPRINTS, TOO 
This low price saves you up to 50% over usual "drug store" prices, rushes high quality color prints back to your door in just a few days. Try the film service used on many mid-west and southern campuses. 
SO EASY, SO CONVENIENT ... just use your own envelope and the coupon below. Fill in name and address, write name on roll or cartridge, enclose coupon and remittance. Or, use the coupon to get film mailers and dis· count coupons; order film and flashes at low prices ... a better deal than "free" film. Savings and processing quality guaranteed. 
•
: YOUR ORDER MUST INCLUDE THIS COUPON­

• 
• Name__ ~ 

• 
• Address. ·-_ 
• e City__ __Stale 
.Zip_-~ 

•
• rJ Send me free film mailer envelope and discount Re1. l'rict Yeu l'ay e e coupon 0 12 exp. Black & White 1.29 .99 e 
• 0 I'm enclosmg -~· rolls or him and paymcn!lplus 0 20 exp Black & White 1.99 1.55 lax-m Ohml 0 20 exp. Shdes or 8 mm Movres l.49 l.22 • 
• n 1 am enclosing iln extra 25¢ per roll lor express 0 Send me fresh Kodacolor fdm and/or flashes e : handlmr, and hrst····ass matl return ~~~~!~!~~~r ~i~~121 ~\1 sse each e
1 2jw~ 120 _ 620 

Re&. Prtce You Pa, Circle your flash: llimtt two sleeves) .88¢ each • e 0 17 cxp Kodacolnr S2.99 $2.33 Cubes-AG-r -M-2-M·J e • [l 20 exp. Kodacolor 4.49 3.55 Magicubes .$1.19 each • 
• MAIL TO: SPE-0-PICS ·Box 299 ·Cincinnati, Ohio 45214 ·Dept. NO e 
~ ••••••••••••••••••••• 6 • ~ ------­
Clrff"s Notes are wrrtten with 
you in mrnd The expert 
scholars who prepare them 
know what you need to help 

you understand the toughest 
literary works. They analyze 
characters. drscuss 
underlyrng meanrng~. 

Interpret. expla1n-all w1th a 
v1ew toward helping you gel 

more than JUSt a grade out of 
literature courses. Titles 
available now cover nearly 

200 frequently assigned plays 
and novels. 

~ . 
_LC.liffs~xfil~ ~ 
Get Them Wherever 
Books Are Sold 
Only $1 Each 


~~ 

In our Advanced Course the monthly sub­sistence allowance has just been increased. From $50 to $100. One hundred dollars every month for 10 months of the school year. To spend on room and board, dates and ball games. To save for grad school. · 
But Army ROTC means a lot more than more money. It means management and leadership experience that you just can't get anywhere else. The kind of thing that can land you a better job, and move you along faster once you get it. It means a commission as an officer and everything that goes with it. The prestige, the pay, the chance to travel, 
the experience.  
Now ROTC looks  
even better. For the money  
yot1'll earn today. For the person  
you'll be tomorrow. See your  
Professor of Military Science,  
orsendthecouponfor  ,.  ~  .  
information.  .......  
Army ROTC.  ··.....·  .....  
The more you look at it, the better it looks.  .\rill\' 1<0 n: 1'.0. llo' I~711:1 l'hiladl'iphia. l';t. 1'11'1·1  
lt·llnu· mon· oduHII thi!t~ «our~t·  
Ihal p;t\'' ~Jt)O a IIHHHIJ  
:"\anu·  
.\ddn'''  
<:itv  <:uulll\'  
Stollt·  Zip  

CNI7·2·72 

Page 10 ____j!f_E_OBS...:='E.:....::.R-=--=VE=-=-R.-=-------Thursday, January 20, 1972 
·-----­

ND icers post big holiday wins 
by Jim Donaldson 
1\. I>. X Col01·ado 1 Notre Dame in front with a first
Sports Editor 

Jan. 8-The Irish avenged their pl'riod goal and Bill Nyrop and The Notre Dame hockey team loss the previous night by Mike Tardani scored to boost the enhanced its national reputation thumping the Tigers 8-1 Satur­Irish lead to 3-0. Ric Schafer's during the Christmas vacation day. The victory enabled Notre third period goal offset an earlier but was unable to improve its Daml' to win three of the four Cornell tally and regained the standing in the Western gaml's in the season series with Notre Dame's three goal bulge, 4­Collegiate Hockey Association. Colorado. 1, but the Big Red got hot and 
The Irish posted a pair of Both teams scored a goal in the forced the game into overtime. impressive victories over Boston first period, Noble hitting the Hegan 's heroics preserved the College and St. Lawrence in twine for the Irish, but Notre Irish triumph, however. copping the ECAC Holiday Dame broke the game open in the 
N.D. 2 Mich. State I!

Hockey Tournament in Madison second period, scoring five times. 
Jan. 14 -The Spartans started
Square Garden, Dec. 20, 21, and, Hegan, Keating, Cordes, Conroy 
slowly, holding a slight 1-0 edge
three weeks later, recorded a 5-4 and Campbell all collected goals 
after one period, but Amo
overtime victory over Cornell, in the middle session and Conroy 
Bessone's club exploded for five
which annually ranks among the and Cordes each added another in 
goals in the second period and
top two or three teams in the the third period to complete the 
went on to thrash the Irish, 8-2.
East. Irish romp.
Ian Williams tied a Notre Dame record by scoring five goals against Regan and Cordes scored for
Notre Dame didn't have as 
Dartmouth in the consolation game of the Great Lakes Invitational N.D. 5 Cornt'll -t Notre Dame and Tomasoni made 
much success with their western 
Tournament. Despite Williams performance, Dartmouth beat the Jan. 10-Paul Regan scored his 46 saves in a losing effort.
foes, however. The Irish were 
Irish, 9-6. second overtime goal of the year N.D. I Mich. State 4
able to win just one of four WCHA 
games, splitting with Colorado for Notre Dame, scoring in each Bumbacco gave the Irish an just 51 seconds into the sudden Jan. 15 -With Ian Williams out 
death period to enable Notre of action and John Campbell
period, and Williams, Keating, early lead but Tech tied the score
College and dropping a pair at 
Dame to edge eastern severely hampered by a shoulder
John Campbell and DeLorenzi all before the first period ended. The 
Michigan State, and slumped to 
powerhouse, Cornell, 5-4 at the injury, the Irish had problems
eighth place in the league. contributed goals to the Irish Huskies built a 3-1 lead after the 
ACC. In November, Regan had scoring against a stiff Spartan
Coach "Lefty" Smith's club cause. second stanza and scored three Notre Dame led 2-1 after the goals in the third to wrap up their tallied the overtime goal that defense and their ace netminder
will take a 9-9 record, 5-7 in the 
gave the Irish a victory over Jim Watt. ' 
first period and 5-3 after the win. Regan and DeLorenzi also
WCHA, with them to Minneapolis 
second. scored for Notre Dame. Michigan Tech. Ric Schafer's goal put Notre
this weekend for a crucial eight 
ECAC Holiday Tourney t;n·at Lakt>s Invitational "Notre Dame outhustled us, Dame in front in the opening
point series with the cellar 
beat us us to the puck, physically period but Frank DeMarco gave
dwelling Minnesota Gophers. N.D. 4 St. Lawrence 2 N.D. 6 Dartmouth 9 Briefly noted, the Irish games Dec. 21 -The Irish became the Dec. 29 -Despite a record-tying beat us and made their own State momentum with a goal at first Western club to win the five goal output by soph winger breaks," Big Red coach Dick 19:56 and the Spartans had the
during the break went this 
Bertrand commented. upp~r hand the rest of the way,
way: ECAC Holiday event by posting a Ian Williams, the Irish were 
The Irish outshot Cornell, 43-29, scormg once in the second period 
thrilling 4-2 victory over St. ambushed by Dartmouth in the
N.D. 1-t Boston College 3 
but almost let the victory slip and twice in the third to gain a
Lawrence. Dick Tomasoni turned consolation game of the Great
Dec. 18 -The Irish hadn't 
away, blowing a 4-1 lead in the sweep of the series and pick up
in an outstanding performance in Lakes Tourney.
played in two weeks prior to 
third period. Bumbacco had put four title points.

the Irish cage and Regan scored The Indians scored five
making their Chicago Stadium 
two goals to lead coach "Lefty" first period goals and were in
debut against Boston College but 
Smith's sextet to the title. front 7-0 before Williams put the
it was the Eagles that looked 
Tomasoni made 12 saves, a Irish on the scoreboard in the
rusty. Led by D'Arcy Keating, 
number of them sensational, as second period. Notre Dame
who scored four goals, and Ed 
the Irish and Larries finally started to play hockey in
Bumbacco, who netted three, 
battled through a scoreless first the third period, but it was too
Notre Dame turned in their best 
period. St. Lawrence took a 1-0 late outscoring Dartmouth 5-1,
offensive show of the year to drub 
lead with a power play goal early but the spurt came too late.
the hapless Eagles. 
in the second period but Camp-Williams fired home four goals
Boston College opened the 
bell knotted the count for the and Bumbacco one in the third
scoring in the first period but a 
Irish midway through the period.
pair of goals by Keating and 
stanza. Williams, who was named the
tallies by Bumbacco, Ray 
Regan and Pat Conroy gave the tourney's MVP, tied records held 
DeLorenzi and Paul Regan gave 
Irish a 3-1 advantage in the final by Phil Wittliff for most goals in a
the Irish a 5-1 lead after the first 
period but the Larries came up period, four, and a game, five,
20 minutes. 
with a power play goal in the which Witliff had set in 1969
Jim Cordes, Bumbacco, Ian 
thirteenth minute and it was a against the Purdue Hockey Club. 
Williams, Regan and Bill Green 
scored in the second period as nip-and-tuck affair to the finish. N.D. 5 Colorado li Notre Dame continued to skate Hegan clinched the victory with a Jan. 7 -Colorado College came past the Eagles' weak defense goal into an open net just six from behind to poast a 6-5 and pepper BC goalie Ned Yet­seconds before the final horn. overtime win over the Irish in ten. Tomasoni finished the game with Colorado Springs. Wayne Horb Keating added his third and 37 saves and the Larries' Allen scored at 2:01 of the extra period fourth goals, Bumbacco com­Howes, who was named the sudden-death period to give the pleted his hat trick and John tourney's Most Valuable Player, Tigers the victory. Noble got into the scoring act as had 44. Colorado had 2-1 and 3-2 leads the Irish continued to dominate (;n•at Lakf's Invitational at the period stops but two goals play in the final stanza. N.D. 3 Michigan Tech 6 by Regan, and one by Larry ECAC Holiday Tourney Dec. 28-The Irish were tabbed Israelson gave the Irish a 5-4 
N.D. 7 Boston College 4 the favorites in the Great Lakes advantage. Doug Palazzari 
Dec. 20 -The Eagles looked Invitational Tournament in the netted the tying goal for the better but were still no match for Detroit Olympia after their fine Tigers, however, and forced the the Irish skaters in the opening showing in New York but the game into overtime. round of the ECAC Holiday Huskies from Michigan Tech Regan registered the hat trick Hockey Tournament in Madison paid little attention to "the ex-for the Irish, adding a second Square Garden. perts" and posted a 6-3, opening period goal to his two third period 
Paul Regan had the hat trick round wip_ over Nq_tr_:~ _Dame,_____~ores. _________________________..:._::....:_:.:::::::__.:..___~.:..=_::.=:::..=...:.=::..:.=..:L_, 

Cultural Arts Collllllission 
presents 

WOODSTOCK 
Tonight (Thursday) at 7:00 & 10:00 Washington Hall Admission: $1.50 or Fund Raising Patrons Free 


Irish meet Duquesne tonight 
by E.J. Kinkopf, '72 <'hristmas vacation Notre Dame In their next three home played rive away games, and games, the Notre Dame came away victors only once, basketball team will be facing posting a win over Tulane. Tom opponents with a combined 34-1 O'Mara and Gary Novak paced record Duquesne, _1, the Irish with 35 and 24 point
10 

Marquette, 12-0, and UCLA, 12_0_ performances, respectively, 
The "murderers row" home against the Green Wave. series gets underway tonight Add to that H &vad record two whPn thP Duquesne Dukes in-embarrassing defeats at the vad£' theConvoat 8 o'clock. The hands of Indiana and UCLA, in 
Duke coach "Red" Manning, in his thirteenth year as head coach at Duquesne, has found more than adequate replacements for those four. 
Huben Montanez, a 6-2 junior and Mike Barr, a 6-3 senior have combined to give the Dukes a 30.2 points per game scoring punch from the guard spots. Montanez has hit for a 17.6 average, while playmaker, has complemented Montanez with a 12.6 scoring average. 
At the forwards are junior Jack Woldowski, 6-5 and 13.9 points per gam<:' and 6-4 senior Darnell Hoebuck, 6.6 points per game. 
And then there's the man who makes the Duke's go, soph flash Billingy at center. 
The Irish will counter the Duke aypraged 85 points a game while allowing only 67.5, with a line up that boasts only two players in the double figure column. Gary Novak, 19.3 points per game, and Tom O'Mara, 12.4 have been carrying the Irish offensive at­tact. 
The NO-Duquesne series stands <'ven at 1-l, with the Dukes providing the equalizer last year 

Dukes are led by a 6-9 which the Irish were outscored 
sophomore, Lionel Billingy, who 208-85, and the suspension· of 
has awraged 23.4 points per sophomore Bob Valibus, and you 
game, and pulled down 138 can see why coach Phelps just 
n•bounds for a 12.6 per game ain't been whistlin' Dixie. 
avPragc. Tonight will be a new chance 
But Billingy is not the only for the Irish to regain some of Duke scoring in double figures. their lost respectability, but the Three of the other four Duke task will he far from easy. starters arc also registered in The Dukes, coming off a 21-4 that column. record and a spot in the NCAA 
Unlike the Dukes, who have tourney a year ago, were ex­played ten of their first eleven pectPd to field an inexperienced games at home, the Irish cagers l<'am this year. But so far, will be returning to the Con-graduates, the Nelson twins, vocation Center for the first time Barry and Gary, high scoring in rive wPeks. .Jarret Durham, and senior-to-be 
To say that the Irish road trip Mickey Davis, who signed a pro was a rough one would be a gross contract early last fall, have not und<'rsta tement. During been missed. 
Jim Donaldson;:;;=:=:::=:::=::::=:=:=:=:=======================:=:===============================::::::::: 
The Irish Eye 
::::============================~''!::::::::::::Down, but far from out 
Since the outset of the season it was obvious that the Notre Dame basketball team was going to have a fight on their hands every time they took the court. There weren't any sissies on Notre Dame's schedule and, in many cases, the Irish appeared to be overmatched ­pitted against bigger, stronger and more skillful opponents. But it's a dark day in Dublin when an Irishman shies away from a battle and the same holds true for "Digger" Phelps' South Bend Gaels. Even though the loss of seven lettermen through graduation and two fine players because of injury made it seem like they were fighting with one hand tied behind their back, the Irish plunged into the fray. 
They didn't fare too badly in the early going, winning two of their first five outings, but then, during the Christmas break, they wan­dered off into the tough neighborhoods of Bloomington, Los Angeles, Louisville, and Atlanta and took some beatings. A gang called the Hoosiers gave the Irish a couple of black eyes and sorely wounded Irish pride by thrashing Notre Dame, 94-29, marking the worst defeat in Irish history. Four nights later, the Bruins, unquestionably the toughest bunch on anybody's block, handled the Irish with all the ease of Joe l''razier polishing off Terry Daniels, taking a 114-56 decision. 
The Irish could have folded then and there but they came back swinging and made Kentucky's Wildcats scramble for an 83-67 triumph. And, in their next start, the Irish got in some good licks and heat Tulane, 87-78, in New Orleans. But Notre Dame was again on the losing end last Monday, bowing 82-62 to the Yellowjackets of Georgia Tech. 
Notre Dame, after dropping four of five straight road games and coming out on the short end in six of their last seven starts, returns home tonight, hosting Duquesne in the ACC. But the Irish are like the kid who's heading home after getting into a fight on the corner-happy to be going home but aware that a spanking may be in store for him. 
Duquesne, with a 10-1 record, and Marquette and UCLA, both currently unbeaten in 12 games, are due to appear in Notre Dame's back yard in the next ten days. The prospects of winning aren't bright but "Digger' Phelps and his club aren't about to throw in the towel. 
Phelps lost just three of 29 games at Fordham last season and the frequent defeats his Irish suffer must bother him like a punch in the solar plexus. But he won't give upon his kids. 
"You can't get down on them," Phelps says. "These kids have tried their best in every game. They never quit. They hustle and scrap and never let up. They're a great bunch of guys." 
"We make mistakes but we're starting to do some good thing's now. We're getting good shots lately but we've got to make them. We put things together against Tulane, but, against Tech, we couldn't put the ball in the hole." 
"We just try and stay loose, take each game one at a time, and learn by our mistakes. It makes you feel good to know that they're not quitting.'' 
Sports fans have always admired and applauded the great cham­pions of any field like the Yankees, the Celtics or the Packers. But the real sports buff, not the fair-weather fan who only supports a winner, hut the guy who backs his team no matter what the score, holds a special place in his heart for the man or team who suffers defeat after defeat but hangs in there and eventually becomes a champion. Witness the joy present when the Mets became champs as compared with the Yankee pennant clinching festivities, or the emotion present when Jersey Joe Walcott finally won the heavyweight crown, when matched with some of Ali's "bum of the month" title fights. 
The Irish cagers have lost quite a few ball games to date and they'll probably lose quite a few more in the weeks ahead. But they'll lose a lot less next year. And fewer the year after that. That's looking ahead though and right now it shapes up as a long winter. 
Rut the Irish are coming home tonight. They haven't quit on Notre Dame. It'll be interesting to see if Notre Dame has quit on them. 
"I hope we can put it together in front of the students," Phelps said yesterday. "They're more valuable to us than they realize. We've played in front of some partisan crowds the last few weeks, now I'd like to let some other clubs know what it's like." 
Barr, rated an excellent 
•
ND wtns 
by Vic Dorr '74 

Notre Dame's 1971-72 
basketball season is approaching 
its halfway point, and Coach 
"Digger" Phelps and his em­
battled group of Irish cagers are 
surely hoping for a change of 
fortune during the second half of 
the campaign. 
Phelps' young squad was 2-3 before the semester break, but they won only one of five outing5 during a disastrous Christmas vacation, and will go against Duquesne tonight with a 3-7 ledger 
Within a 10-day period, NO journeyed to Indiana, UCLA, and Kentucky, and was saddled with three convincing losses. Then, after a short breather, the Irish travcll'd to New Orleans and snapped their losing streak at five by dumping Tulane's Green Wave. But Georgia Tech saw to it that NO's winning ways did not last long, as the Ramblin' Wrecks dl:'molished the Irish Monday
night. 
N.D. :!!1--lndiana !1-t 
The Irish matchup with In­diana was the dedication game for the Hoosier's sparkling new arena complex, and if sizeable scores in dedication games mean anything, no sports facility was <•ver more thoroughly christened. Indiana pummelled Notre Dame !14-29, and the contest was so one­sidPd that the Hoosier's John Hitter outscored the entire Irish squad (Ritter had 31 points for the game.) 
And if the Hoosiers were hot, Digger's crew was frigid. NO shot t:l per cent, and hit on only Pight of 61 from the field. From the line, the Irish were 13 of 27. It was such a frustrating afternoon fl'r the Irish that NO's top four guards (Valibus, Hansen, Egart, and Mike Townsend) were a eollective 0 for 20 from the field. Gary Novak scored seven points to cl::tim the "honors" for NO. 
"If we score 30 points the next game, then 31 after that," reasoned the Irish coach, "then that's progress. We've got to regroup, reorganize, and get over it." 
N. B. !iii--UCLA Ill 
The Irish did make some "progress" in their next outing, hut that progress did not come easily. Pitted against the ddending National Champion l lCLA Bruins in a televised night game, the Irish were simply ('h<'wPd up by the overpowering llCLAns. 
Coach John Wooden's Bruins, looking for their sixth straight NCAA crown, streaked to leads of .Jii-ll and 70-20 before a full-court prPss <'nabled ND to hang even with tlwm for the rest of the way. .John Egart, who played despite an injun•d knee, led the Irish with IIi points. UCLA was paced by I Jenry Bibby, who notched 28 points. and by li-11 Bill Walton, who was a perfect 10 of 10 from the fidd, and who pulled down 19 rebounds. 
Notre Danw played without the s<•rvicPs of sophomore guard Bob \'alibus. Valibus missed the !Pam bus for the trip to the West ( 'oast <llld was suspended by !'helps for "Disciplinary l't':lSOnS.'' 
scoring attack, which has with an 81-78 overtime victory. 
1 of 5 during break 
Soph Tom O'Mara scored :15 Jloints in Notre Damt''S win over Tulant' last Saturday. 
N.D. fi7--Kt'ntucky x:l 
The Irish next tangled with Adolph Rupp's Kentucky Wild­cats on a "neutral" floor in Louisville. Although NO lost to the 'Cats, 83-67, the team played a respectable game, and lost its upset chances to a pair of shooting droughts, one in each half. 
Tom Parker, Kentucky's left­handed sharpshooter, bagged 30 points for the Wildcats. But he 
ND cheerleaders are number one 
Notre Dame's athletic teams and the famous "Notre Dame spirit" have, for years, been acclaimed as the equal of any school's in the country and Tuesday. the Notre Dame 
cheerleaders, who have made such a great contribution to Irish sports and spirit, received similar recognition. 
The Irish cheerleaders were named America's top collegiate cheerleading squad by the In­ternational Cheerleading Foundation, Inc. 
Notre Dame ousted UCLA's Song Girls, to take top honors. The Bruins' Song Girls had finished first in the poll the past four years. Also included in the top 10 were squads from Georgia, Kansas, Ohio State, Nebraska, TC'xas, Tennessee, Penn State and Florida. 
Patulski reaps honors 


All-American defl'nsive end Walt Patulski displays the form that P:\l'ut'd him recognition as thl' UPI's "Lineman of the Year·• and ,·nabled tlw Irish standlut to win the Vince Lombardi Trophy, awarded to "tlw nation's outstanding lineman" this month. Northwestern's 1\I.IIIrie llaignt'au was one of the many quarterbacks who spent an untJleasant aftl'rnoon in Patulski's arms. 
was pressed for game honors by Honnie Lyons, a 5-11 sophomore. Lyons, who scored but three points during the game, shredded Notre Dame's press with his ball handling--as Phelps feared he would--and put the Wildcats into a lead they never lost. 
Gary Novak paced NO with 25 points and 14 rebounds, but Kentucky's zone defense took its toll on Notre Dame's outside accuracy. The Irish hit on only 28 of 84 from the field, and Novak was followed in the scoring eolumn by Willie Townsend <II l and John Egart (10). 
N.H. 1\7--Tu\ant' 7!\ 
The Irish met Tulane's Green Wave in New Orleans, and for the second time NO found itself performing before a large t<'levision audience. The results were different this time, however, as the Irish evened their TV record with an 87-78 victory over the Greenies. 
li-6 sophomore Tom O'Mara hit for :!5 points to lead the Irish to the win, their third of the year. But ()'Mara's heroics were not the only ones served up by NO. <;ary Novak claimed 24 points and the 6-7 sophomore also snaggPd 14 rebounds to help the t<'am overcome several spells of sloppy ball handling. 
NJ) fi:!--Gt•orgia Tt•ch 1\2 
But two days later, against another Southern squad, the Irish were again defeated. A crowd of partisan Atlantans watched in approval as Georgia Tech held off several first half NO rallies, and Pscaped at half-time in possession of a four-point cushion. 
In the secondhalf, though, the Hamblin' Wrecks methodically added to their lead, and were Pnjoying a 20-point spread when the final gun sounded. Gary Novak led Notre Dame in both scoring and rebounding. He scored 21 points and pulled in 13 caroms. Mike Townsend, with 11 points, was second in scoring fc r Notre Dame. 

Page 12 THE OBSERVER Thursday, January 20, 1972 
TV Equipment Airlifted to Peking 
<c> 19i2 New York Times 
Washington, (Jan. 19)--When President Nixon arrives in Peking Feb. 21, the event will be telecast instantly--via a $1.6­million communications trailer in the Chinese capital, an Intelsat IV satellite in the Pacific sky, a communications station in Jamesburg, Calif., and a tran­scontinental cable to New York-­into millions of American homes. 
United States television net­works are preparing to transmit virtually all of the President's movements in China, most of them live and in color, during his eight-day visit. 
As the technical details and procedures that will be used became known today, it became increasingly apparent that Nixon will dominate American television screens within eight days of the first Presidential primary of 1972. 
But the White House, sensitive to potential charges that it is seeking to exploit the China visit for political profit, is attempting to counter that impression. 
At a meeting in New York city yesterday, Ronald L. Ziegler, the White House Press Secretary, officials of the National Broad­casting Company, Columbia Broadcasting system and American Broadcasting Com­pany that television represen­tatives in China would be treated "on the same basis as all other media." 
John Scali, a former diplomatic correspondent for ABC who is now a special consultant to the President, told a newspaper reporter today that "it's the networks who put pressure on the White House for this coverage. 
It's  never  been  the  other  way  
around."  
All  the  same,  the  point  is  

proving difficult for the White House to make in the face of the diplomatic and technical efforts undertaken by the administration and the networks to assure the capability of live television coverage from Peking. 
When Ziegler went to China l'arlier this month to make ad­vance preparations for the President's journey, the only newsmen permitted to ac­company the official party were officials of the three networks. 
Of the 80 journalists who will be accredited to accompany the President to China, more than half will represent television and radio, including four correspondents from each major broadcast network. 
By contrast, no working newsman from a print medium has taken part in advance journeys to China, major American publications have been dissuaded by the White House for plans to send more than one correspondent each, and only about 25 newspapers are likely to be represented at all. 
One Washington columnist already has recalled that Nixon wrote in his book, "Six Crises," that "Where votes are concerned, a paraphrase of what Mr. Khrushchev claimes in an 'an­cient Russian proverb' could not be more controlling: 'One TV picture is worth 10,000 words.' " 
Ziegler, aware of such skep­ticism abot the accommodating White House attitude toward television coverage of the hina trip, protested in aninterview that the initiative for the live 
color coverage had come entirely 
from the networks. 
"W<' are not giving emphasis or 
overemphasis to television--or to 
magazines or to other print 
ml'dia," Ziegler asserted. 
"However, the realities of life are 
that it takes more people to 
transmit news on some news 
ml'dia categories than on 
others." 
Robert Siegenthaler, Chairman of the networks' arrangements committee and one of those who traveled to China with Ziegler, said that the network group had dealt "Directly with the Chinese television people." 
"Obviously," he added, "we had the cooperation of the White House or we wouldn't have been let in. But once we were in China we worked it out directly. I don't know who the Chinese TV people reportto, but we don't report to the United States government." 
One network official familiar with the television negotiations in Peking from Jan. 3 to Jan. 7 said privately, however, that the White House had energetically l'ndorsed network arguments for large numbers of personnel and extensive live telecasting. 
Scali said that he and Ziegler had also "worked hard to raise the number of reporters (for all media) from the very small number the People's Republic of China was originally willing to admit." 
Furthermore, Ziegler con­tended that the $1.6 million satellite communications station that will be flown to Peking and leased to the Chinese govern­ment by Western Union In­ternational would assure swift reporting by print media as well. 

Lawless denies candidacy 
Describing himself as "thunderstruck," William B. Lawless, former dean of the Notre Dame Law School, denied a published report that he would seek the Deomcratic nomination for the New York governorship. 
Lawless, who headed the law school here from 1968 until 1971, was reported in the New York magazine of January 10 to be "spreading the word among Democratic friends" that he would seek the Democrats' nod. The election is not until 1974. Lawless is currently a partner in the New York law firm of Mudge, Rose, Guthrie, and Alexander. 
Before coming to Notre Dame, Lawless was active in politics in Buffalo, holding post of cor­poration counsel for the city and later serving as president of the Common Council of Buffalo from 1956 until 1959. After leaving the council presidency, he was elected to the New York State Supreme Court, where he served until leaving to assume the deanship of the law school. 
+P 

10 % OFF 
n any mechanical 
ork  and  winterizing  
snow  tires  included)  
For  Students  and  

University Personnel 
·noseland Gulf 402 LS. 31 North Anoss from Burger King 
While at Notre Dame, Lawless 
didate for office. was credited with doubling the 
Lawless speculated that the enrollment of the school, and report grew out of a "purelyinstituting a student loan fund 
social visit" to Joseph Crangle,and a program of legal studies in 
state Democratic chairman. London for second-year students. 
Lawless said that he naver In denying the report, Lawless 
discussed the 1974 gubenatorialsaid that although he is interested 
election with anyone, and that the in the fate of the Democratic 
New York report was pure party, he was not "actively "fabrication." engaged in politics," and had no intention of becoming a can-
SMORGASBORD 
Every Mo.nday 5-9 pm $1.25 All you can eat 
Every Wednesday evening 
$1.00 PITCHER NIGHT 
AND LIVE ENTEUTAINMENT 
Every Friday night 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
Every Saturday night 
POLKA BAND·DANCING 

Open Weekdays 11 a.m. -12 p.m. 
LAUREL &HARDY \~~ 
PIZZA PALACE 
4ti10Western Ave. Belleville Shoppin£ Center 
Phone 289-7Q83 
The ground station, which weighs 25 tons, will be kept in Pl'king from Feb. 1 to March 1, along with two mobile television vans that will be used to videotape Nixon's activities when he visits Shanghai and llangchow. 
A spokesman for the Hughes Aircraft Company of Culver City, Calif., which built the ground station, said it would be the only communications link between China and the United States. 

The instant telecasts could become available in Moscow. According to the spokesman fro the Hughes company, once the live color transmissions reach New York, there is no reason why they could not proceed by satellite to Europe and be available to such outlets as British Broadcasting Corporation and, on the continnent, Eurovision. The Soviet Union is a participant in Eurovision. 
Underntan's letter 
To the Students of St. Mary's College: 

I am submitting my resignation as Student Body Vice­
President and the reasons for my action to you, the students, 
since you elected me to my position and it is you who I have 
worked for and with this year. 

I envisioned Student Government as a group of students elected to represent the ideas, opinions, wants, and needs of their contemporaries in all areas of the college structure. Unfortunately, I have found that all of the student body. the conservatives, the liberal-minded, or those in the middle . have not been represented. The ideas presented as those of the majority of students have many times instead been those of a small minority. Some of the student leaders have continuously ignored the major portion of the student body body and instead used their positions to advance their personal philosophies and 
ambitions. 

Communication and cooperation, two very important qualities in any effective organization, were lacking in Student Government. Decisions would be made by a select few who would then inform the others of the result. This is very con­tradictory to the idea of all representatives working together to 
reach a mutually satisfactory decision. 

The Vice-President has many jobs. she is the "co-captain" of what could be a powerful and dynamic team with the President. But she must be able to trust those with whom she works. My trust, particularly in the President, no longer exists. 
And so I am resigning from Student Government. This is not'a decision made in haste nor one made because I am a quitter or afraid of the job. I am leaving because of the reasons 1 have stated above. I can no longer compromise my personal values to fit those of others, and I can no longer work for ideals or with actions that I do not believe in. 
Thank you. 
Melissa Underman 
Cl~~1SSIFIED ADS 
Classttied Editor Official Statement:­
The Entire Classified Advertising Machine is Ready For Your Ads. We Are In Wild Anticipation of Each And Every One of Them. 
Help Build The Classifieds Up To An Even Higher Plateau of Splendor. 
You All Have My Sincerest Welcome Back, Kirk Whether You Want It or Not. 
FOR SALE 
SECOND-HAND BOOKS FOR ARTS & LETTERS COURSES. 
BUY,  SELL,  &  EXCHANGE  
USED BOOKS AT  PANDORA'S  
BOOKS,  SOUTH  BEND  AT  

NOTRE DAME. OPEN NOON TO MIDNIGHT, 7 DAYS A WEEK 
SAVE A TREE -RECYCLE YOUR BOOKS 
r or Sale: Several suits, size 44 originally $120-$140. Also an overcoat Same Size. About $20.00 each. HENRY STUTE 234-0256 or 232-8233. 
LOST 
Lost: Large Gray-Green Suit­case With Leather Strap. Lost off of 0' Hare Bus. John 289-6820. 
WANTED 
POETRY WANTED for An thotogy_ tn~lude stamped, C'vellope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California 90021. 

EARN MONEY PART TIME PROMOTING STUDENT TRAVEL PACKAGES. INQUIRES TO: American Student Travel Assoc., 27 Mass. Ave., Boston, Mass 02115 617­536 7863 
PERSONALS 

Old man lying on the side of the road with the lories rolling by, 
blue  moon  sinking  from  the  
weight  of  the  load  and  the  
buildings scrape the sky.  

The Valpo Victim 
Don't let it bring you down. It's only castles burning. NY 
thl0q6jcers eas jobs for students Australia, Europe, S. America, Africa etc. ALL professions and occupastins, $700 to $3,000 monthly. EExpenses paid, overtime, signtseeing. Free information: Write, Jobs Overseas, Dept. F2, Box 15071, San Diego, CA. 92115. 
I 
AD RATES 
[words 1da. 2da 3da 4da 5da 
1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11·15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21·25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 16-30 1.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.35 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 1.75 41·45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 




