
temperature in the mid 20's to mid 30's. wind is from the south at 8 to 14 m.p.h. chance of percipitation, 5 per cent. 


Vol. VI, No. 93 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Monday, March 6, 1972 
Observer Insight 
Burtchael praises Barkett letter 
by Bill McGinn 

On February 15, 1972 Student Body President 
John Barkett distributed a paper entitled "Women at Notre Dame" to the various officers ot the University. This report offered suggestions and queries concerning the orientation of women to Notre Dame, as well as that of Notre Dame to women. Barkett's report covered such topics as the addition of more women professors and counselors, an escort service, parietal hours, a Dean of Women, and the renovation of the two 
residence halls. 

This report was favorably received by the 
Administration. Rev. James T. Burtchael 
praised the report for its many gooil suggestions. 
Some of his suggestions had already been, or will 
be acted upon. 

The Provost announced that a special Com­
mittee for Co-Education is being formed to help 
solve any problems involved in the arrival of 
women on campus next fall. The administration 
is actively trying to acquire more female 
professors and counselors. Their efforts are 
somewhat restricted though because of the 
limited number of qualified women in higher 
education. In accordance with Barkett's 
suggestion, renovation of Walsh and Badin is 
being carefully planned. Rev. Burtchael 
declared that the services of an architect 
specializing in women residence halls are being 
sought. 

There were, however, disagreements over 
several of the Student Body President's 
suggestions. The report's suggestion for a 
gynecologist to ensure female health care female health care was rejected by the Ad­ministration for financial reasons. Burtchael stated that "the University does not have the money for specialists." He emphasized that there are two diagnosticians at the Infirmary who can refer any student patient to a specialist in South Bend. 
The 24 hour escort patrol service offered as a suggestion by Barkett was rejected as unrealistic. The Provost declared that, "there is no evidence that it's unsafe on campus." He also cited the recent installation of lights on campus as a precaution taken for the prevention of any dangers. 
Burtchaell was not in agreement with Barkett's proposal for a Co-Education Office to be headed by a woman. The Provost declared, "I am opposed to the establishment of a Dean of Women. I don't like the creation of a separate world for a sub-group, ethnic or otherwise. If there are women in the Administration, they will be there for the purpose of integration and not segregation. He was not against having a woman as a Dean of Students, but he did object to having a special Dean for the co-eds. 
One important question concerning the ad­dition of women to the student body next year remains undecided. Parietal hours for the new residents of Walsh and Badin won't be decided until the girls arrive on campus next Fall. Burtchaell noted the national trend for girls residences to have restricted hours. "They may not want any hours imposed upon them," he advised. The Provost added that the two female residence halls (as well as any other residence hall) may restrict their parietal hours. They just can't expand them. 



N. Vietnam rejects plan 
<c> 1972 New York Times 
Hanoi, March 5--North Vietnam and Cam­bodian Prince Norodom Sihanouk's government of National Union today categorically rejected the U.S. eight-point peace plan and denounced "The American maneuver to dress up the puppets in Saigon, Phnompenh and Vientiane in a coal of false independence and neutrality." 
The denunciation was contained in a 13-page joint communique released here by the two governments as Sihanouk, the ousted Cam­bodian Premier now residing in China, returned to Peking, where his government of national union is partly based. 
The communique emphasized the solidarity of the Cambodian, Laotian and Vietnamese people in their efforts to end "all the American ad­ventures in Indochina." 
It condemed the "savage air attacks that the United States has launched against large populated regions in North Vietnam, seriously violating the sovereignty and security of the democratiic of North Vietnam." 
The two governments warned the "reac­tionary administration of Thailand" that it would have to "fully take the serious con­sequences" of putting itself in the "service of 
U.S. imperialism." 
The communique also said that the United States had still not given a positive response to the two key points in the seven-point peace plan put to the Paris peace talks by the provisional revolutionary government last year. 
Washington must "put an end to aggression and vietnamization, immediately abolish the apparatus of coercion and oppression, put an end to the so-ealled policy of pacification, close the concentration camps and guaran~ee democratic liberty to open the way to a government of national harmony and free and democratic elections," the communique stressed. 

Itcalled for the "immediate and unconditional 
withdrawal"  from  Bangkok  and  Saigon  of  
United  States  and  "satellite"  advisers  and  
military personnel.  

f:===!===~==:!:::::::::::::::::::::::::~:?.::::;:;:;:;::::::::::::;~::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::~..~!, 
::;: The Democratic Mock Con-!;!; ~lli vention still needs 300 delegates. :111 ;:;:: Those wishing to be delegates can ;:;: ;!;3 sign up by calling the Student ~:;: :::; Union Academic Commission at ~:: [:;: 6244, between I and 5 o'clock. :::~. :;:; The halls will be canvassed ~:3 :;~ tonight and tomorrow night in :;:~!;!; hopes that some delegates will be !;!; ;:;: found. ~;:
•« •« 
z._•••••.!.•.•••••••·····•••••••••••••"i•••••••••••.t.•.••X!:•;•e!e~··:•:e:;•~;·~Y;•~·~.-~
YA.·.·--····························-~;·.-........................................-;,.;.•...~­
I cers make league playoffs split series with Spartans 

the observer Monday, March 6. 1972 
Observer Insight 
SLC faculty comment on Kersten election 
Next MONTESSORI Teacher Training Program June 26 August 11, 1972 in Chicago on beautiful campus. ,serious shortage of Montes, Teachers. Write Montessori T. Train. 1010 W. Chicago Ave., Chicago, Ill. 60622  
The Observer is published daily during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556.  

by Art Quinn 

Opinions of the faculty members of the Student Life Council concerning the election of Prime Mover Bob Kersten as Student Body President range from disappointment to delight to wait-and-see. 
Kersten, as SBP elect automatically becomes· a member of the SLC, will first sit in during the April meeting. 
asserted, "I assume it <Kersten's election l reflects student body opinion. However, I try to avoid guessing why people do things." lie continued, "He arrived with the right platform at the right time. I think it may well be an interesting year, at least an in­teresting Spring." , 
"I am very disappointed," asserted Professor William D. McGlinn. "It was a slap at the idea of student government, not think he ran on, I would not ac­cept the nomination to the SLC next year. I think it would be 
contrary to what he  ran  for  to  
even  show  up  at  the  SLC  
meeting."  

Professors Peter Thorton and Hobert H. Va!>oli declined to comment on Kersten. 
"I think we will just wait and see what happens," contended Professor John J. Borkowski. "There has been some talk he 

lie continued, "If he got that much student support, the students must feel he is a good representative. He may be what the student government needs." 
When asked if he would mind serving on the same SLC with Kersten, Borkowski replied, "Not at all. I would hate to prejudge the man." 
Borkowski's "wait-and-see" attitude reflected the opinions of American Studies Program 
Cronin asserted, "Government of the University is a professional matter and a job for professors and administrators, not students. I think Kersten is saying we go to Notre Dame to go to school, to study." He added that by voting for Kersten the students were saying, "We didn't come here to run the place, but to study." 
Kersten's election was termed "delightful" by Professor Robert Goodfellow. "I know Kersten and 
SLC members comment on the only the type of student govern­might resign. If he does not, he situation: ment we had this year." He will have to come out with some Professor William F. Eagan added, "If he represents what I 1 definitt: plans for the future. ,;· 
McGovern finances questioned 
(c) 1972 New York Times News Service 
Durham, N.H.' March 5-The much heralded "Debate of the Issues" by the five Democratic candidates in the presidential primary here was held tonight, but the major confrontation occured after the debate. 
In a joint appearance for an hour and a half on national television, the five Democrats were unable to clarify or sharpen the issues that have developed after months of campaigning. 
However, as the candidates were leaving the television studios, representatives of Sen. George S. McGovern and Sen. Edmund S. Muskie became engaged in a sharp conflict over the issue of financial con­tributions. Aides to Muskie disputed McGovern's claims to complete disclosure of his con­tributions. 
IIIIII II II 1111 111111111111111 II II 111111111111111111 IIIll 

Lecture 
Dr. John Snell of the Univeristy 

of North Carolina, a specialist in 
history of Germany since 1870, 
will discuss the science and 
politics of the nation before World 
War I in a public talk at 8 pm 
Tuesday <march 7) in the 
University Club at Notre Dame. 
Snell is the author of "Illusion 

and Necessity: The Diplomacy 
of Global War-1939-1945" and the 
co-author of "The Meaning of 
Yalta" and "The Education of 
Historians in America" a study of 
the profession commissioned by a 
national history association. 
He is a former dean of the 

graduate school at Tulane 
University and served on the 
University of Pennsylvania staff 
before moving to North Carolina. 
The talk is part of the spring 
series of history lectures and is 
open to the public without charge. 
"I know a lot of people who have contributed to his <McGovern's) campaign who are not in that report," said John F. English, coordinator of the Muskie campaiggn, in a reference to McGovern's 
disclosure  of  finan­ 
cialcontributions that  was  filed  
last week.  

Though English refused to name names, he said he knew of several contributors of $1000 or more who were not on the list and complained further that the list did not include contributions made prior to January, 1971 when McGovern formally declared his candidacy. 
McGovern denounced the accusation as a "farce" but said he would add to his published list any contributions that had arrived before January, 1971. 
Such early money, he insisted, was a "matter of little or no consequence." 
He challenged Muskie, or his aides, to name the names of any of those they claim have con-
Now that you can fly tCJ~ Europe for peanuts, here's how little you shell out to get around: 
$130for Two Months of unlimited rail travel in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Gennany, Holland,Italy, Luxembourg, Norway,Portugal,Spain,,Sweden, Switzerland. 
You shell out $130, and get a Student-Railpass. All you need is the bread and something to show you're a bona fide student between 14 and 25. 
Our Student-Railpass gives you all that unlim'ited rail travel on the 100,000 mile railroad networks of those 13 countries. For two foot-loose months. So with low air fares and Student-Railpass you've got Europe made. 
Our Student-Railpass gets you Second Class travel on our trains. You'll find that there's very little second class about Second Class. Besides being com­fortable, clean, fast, and absurdly punctual, the Euro­
-------------------------------·--------~-------------------·
5ruDENJ•RAILPASS The w•r to ••• Europe without feelina like • tourist. 
Eurailpass is valid in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Holland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland. Eurailpass, Box 90, Lindenhurst, New York 11757. Please send me your free Eurailpass folder with railroad map. 0 Or your Student-Railpass folder order form. 0 
Name_______________Street _______________State______________ 
tributed but have not been identified. 
This post-television debate overshadowed the lackluster debate during which the five candidates generally avoided conflict over the issues. 




COPIES UNLIMITED 
Quality and fast service i:s the main facet of copies unlimited. 
The Xerox 3600 III copier used in copies unlimited is the fastest and best reproducing machine made. We specialize in any short run order you may have. 8lh x 11 and 8lh x 14 paper is used in copies unlimited. This paper is especially made for the 3600 III. While going through the machine the toner is fused into the paper to prevent smearing, fading and cracking. Half tones and solids nre remnrkable in quality. Call 233-9471 or come up to suite 402 Whit­comb-Keller Bldg. and ask about the other services we offer. 
Office hours: Moo Thru Fri 9-5, Sat 10-4 Emergencies after hours call 232-9834. 
Chairman, Ronald Weber, who described the election as "good fun." 
Professor Edward J. Cronin emphatically stated, "I think it is one ·of the best things that has happened at Notre Dame in a long, long time." Cronin ex­plained, "I think Kersten was saying the student government of the University was a farce. His election helped to restore my confidence in the Notre Dame student body. Kersten has shown there is that blessed sense of · humor on campus and I hope that tlhis will be reflected in other matters." 
pean trains have some other advantages for you. They take you from city center to city center, so you don't have to hassle airports. And the stations are helpful homes ·away from home, with Pictograms that give you informa­tion in the universal language of signs, and dining rooms, 
bookstores and other helpful facilities. 
Now, here's the catch. You can't get your Student-Railpass or the regular First Class Euraitpass in Europe-you have to get them before you leave the coun­try. So see your Travel Agent soon. Meanwhile, send in the coupon for a free folder, complete with railroad map. 
he's a very good student. I think it is very good; he is honest, he is flamboyant. If he can deliver half of what he hopes to, he will be very good." 
He continued, "I think it is time in student government where maybe someone as eccentric as Kersten is needed. I see no harm that he can do and a lot of good he can." 
Goodfellow also said, "His resounding election suggest­s ... that maybe he will be taken more seriously than past student body presidents." 


world 
briefs 
((') l\li2 New York Times News Service 
(;,.•w,·a -The United States will pay more than $20 million in withheld dues to the International Labor Organization before June. Trade union sources said in Geneva. The sources said that George Meany, the American Labor Leader. had been given that assurance by Rep. John J. Hooney. D-N .Y., chairman of the subcommittee that blocked the funds two years ago after a Soviet citizen was named the 
I.L.O. 's assistant director general. 
Washington---The Senate Judiciary Committee will ad­vance Monday to its next scheduled hearing into the justice Department's decision to drop three antitrust suits against the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation. It is expected to hear testimony from the doctor of Mrs. Dita D. Heard. the hospitalized I.T.T.lobbyist who allegedly wrote a memorandum linking the dropping of the suits to a pledge by 
I.T .T. to help finance the Republican Convention. 
Washington--Enrollment in the nation's private schools had dropped 23 per cent since 1965, the Census Bureau reported. Enrollment in Roman Catholic schools, the bulk of the private schools, dropped 30 per cent during the same period. About 10 per cent of school-age children now go to private schools, the Bureau found, while in 1965, the peak year. the figure was 14 per cent. 
on campus today 
4:00--lecture, dr. william 8:00--lecture, prof. lou arrowsmith, the nature silberman, gumran
of moda I thought; a lecture series, libraryglance at gilgamesh, auditorium. library auditorium. 
8:00 --recital. student 

4: 30--lecture, prof. franklin 
chamber mus1c recital,ling, proton transfer 
o'laughlin auditorium. from cyanocarbon acid, 123 nieuwland. 


Monday, March 6, 1972 the observer 

WANT TO TRY A TRULY UNIQUE "ACADEMIC" AND HUMANITARIAN EXPERIENCE? 
The NO Knights of Columbus will be collecting for the MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY assn. throughout the coming week, and particularly on Saturday, March 11. Help us to help someone else, to fight this crippling disease. 
JOIN T·HE FIGHT AGAINST MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY 
For more information about how you can help, contact Don White (3374) or call the Knight of Columbus at 7018. 
GIVE A DAMN! 
You'll be glad you did. There'll be a party for all the workers! 
and a substantial gift certificate for the male & female collecting the most money 




''Hello
' 

Moscow weather bureau? 
What are the chances 
for snow next week?JJ 
When you need information fast 
the quickest way to call long 
distance is to dial direct. Costs 
less, too. For example, a 
person-to-person call to 
Waterloo, Iowa costs about 
$2.00 after 5:00 p.m. The 
same call dialed direct costs 
less than 90 cents. Next time, 
dial direct and save. 




@ l~iana Bell 
the observer Monday, March 6, 1972 


Russia strengthens Bangladesh friendship 
((') l!ln New York Times 
Moscow.March 5--The Soviet Union appears to have con­solidated its early foothold of influence in the new state of Bangladesh as a result of the visit of its Prime Minister, Sheik Mujibur Rahman, which ended today. 
Sheik Mujib, in turn, is coming away from his four-day tour of the Soviet Union with pledges of Russian Economic aid both for immediate emergency needs and for longer-range development projects. 
These were among the key 
results emerging from a joint 
declaration signed here by the 
Bt•ngali leader and by Premier 
Aleksei N. Kosygin and made 
public today. 
The statement also lays the 
basis for regular political con­
sultations between the two 
countries and provides for a 
broad program of exchanges and 
contacts at all levels. 
The political element of Mujib's visit was underscored by the presence during some of his discussions of Boris N. 

'wait and see' attitude 
SLC 
by Mike Baum 
k "wait and see" attitude prevailed among Administration members of the SLC toward the SBP-elect R. Calhoun Kersten. 
"I think· It was kind of a delightful thing," Assistant Dean Waddick of the College of Arts and Letters said. "I think he's a pretty sharp guy." Dean Wad­dick commented on Kersten's "novel platform", by saying, "I don't think anybody knows what to make of Mr. Kersten." 
Waddick spoke favourably of Kersten's ability to "poke fun at poobahs", and said that he had "evidently captured the students imagination." He noted however that he felt that Kersten might "have trouble finding time to discharge his duties." He referred to him as a "breath of fresh air in a sea of politics." 
Waddick's comment, "We don't know him," was echoed by Fr. Robert Austgen, Director of Summer Session, who remarked that he didn't know anything about him really personally," a comment that reflected the opinions of most of the SLC. 
Fr. Riehle, Dean of Students 
wary of 
also admitted that he had no "first hand knowledge of Ker­sten, and added, "I assume he's going to assume the respon­sibilities of student government and I hope he does. I've never talked to him ... We<the SLC) will just look at him like we do any other student body president." Fr. Riehle also noted the large responsibilities and work load of the office. 
Vice-President for Student Affairs Fr. Blantz declined to comment at such an early time, but Assistant Vice-President Fr. Shilts said that, "He's going to be an interesting fellow to work with." He also felt that he lacked the information on Kersten and his future plans. Citing the work and responsibilities of Student Body President, which, presumably will devolve upon the new SBP, Fr. Shilts said that he'd have to "just wait and see if he really intends to follow through on this." 
University General Counsel Phillip Faccenda declined to comment on the situation. Fr. Chambers and Flanigan were 

IMPORTANT NEWS MEETING TUESDAY NIGHT 7:00 IN THE RATHSKELLAR 
ALL OBSERVER NEWS DEPARTMENT 
MEMBERS SHOULD ATI'END 

ANY PEOPLE INTERES'IED 
IN 

REPORTING 

ARE INVITED 
Ponomarev, a national secretary of the Soviet Communist Party who is concerned with relations with political groups outside the 
Communist-ruled countries. 

Ponomarev's presence was interpreted as an attempt to sound out Mujib on possible political ties between the Soviet party and the Awami League, Bangladesh's ruling party with some socialist principles. 
The Soviet-Bangladesh declaration was made public as 1\lujib spend the ·day in the central Asian city of Taskent before returning to his capital of Dacca. 


Kersten 

unavailable for comment. University General Counsel Phillip Faccenda declined to comment on the situation. Fr. Thomas Chambers, Director of Studnt Residence was unavailable for comment. 
Despite Mujib's avowed policy The new emergency aid ac­of nonalighment, the declaration cord, designed to help contains his expression of support Bangladesh rebuild its war-torn for the Soviet stand on in­<'conomy, provides for the supply ternational issues such as In­of helicopters to restore com­dochina and the Middle East, munications within the new urging acceptance of the Viet­country and for assistance in the Cong's peace plan and Israeli rl'building of fisheries, a major withdrawal from occupied Arab source of food, and of shipping territories. and railroads. 
The Soviet Union also declared 

_On the Pakistani-Indian con-its readiness to help train skilled 
flict that gave rise to an in-personnel for all technical and 
dependent Bangladesh last <'conomic needs of the new state. 
December, the two leaders said The longer-term development 
that a genuine political set-accord is understood to represent 
tlement on the Indian sub-. aid originally pledged to 
continent could be achieved only without "outside interference." ln contrast to the moderate 
approach to the problems of the 
subcontinent, the Soviet­
Bangladesh text contained a 
veiled rebuke to the United States 
and China for their pro-Pakistani 
position in the recent conflict. 

"The course of that struggle," the declaration asserted, "revealed with utmost clarity not only the attitude of different states toward the just cause of the people of Bangladesh, but also the true friends and foes of the people's Republic of Bangladesh as a new independent state." 
Pakistan for its east wing, but blocked when the December war broke out. 
It provides for assistance in the construction of a steam power station, radio stations and an l'lectrical engineering plant as well as in oil and gas exploration. 
Staff 
Night Editor: Jim Roe Assistant Editor: Carol Weiss Day Editor:Tom Bohrnholdt Typists: Ann Conway, Bar Norcross, Mark Niederkorn 
Ginna Smith. 


2RECORD SET 

~R( N~D~ m~~rn$5.49 



VPS-6029 

SPECIAL SAVINGS .on these selected RCA Records and Tapes. 

ROll Records and Tapes 
Notre I-ante Bookstore 
Monday, March 6, 1972 the observer 
~~----------------------------­

Letters • • • 
• • . on admissions, ra's, pornography, abortion and smart people 

Proud Radicals 
Dear Editor: 
According to Fr. Neil McCloskey, St. Mary's College believes that hasty oversights by Admissions officers resulted in the admission of a number of "radicals" to the present fresh­man class. We question whether. St. Mary's College knows what the word "radical" is all about. Is one a "radical" when she refuses to accept an injustice done to her and her fellow students? Is one a "radical" when she reacts with anger. indignation, and disillusionment to the great divorce for which students are forced to pay alimony? Is one a "radical" when she seeks to change the parochialism of a small women's college? 
If one were to consult Webster for the etymology of the word "radical" he would find that it is derived from the word "root". .Jesus was a radical. He was radically human--radically vulnerable--and said what he felt. lie sought change in a stagnant world. He did not come to pacify or to bring sweet dreams of contentment. but to bring to the multiverse a peaceful unrest. It is ironic to note that in this "Christian" instition, those who cannot be content with a grave injustice and a dehumanized milieu. are looked upon as sub­versives. It is unfortunate, too, that those who cannot remain silent-the redical element--are only membvers of this com­munity because of hasty procedures. It is too bad that their presence must be justified. 
We. of the class of '75 are proud to be called "radicals". To us, the words radical and Christian are synonymous. To us, a Christian community is a radically human, dynamic body--not a con­servative, complacent citadel. If St. Mary's College is to become a contemporary Christian com­munity which seeks to grow, then we suggest that more "radicals" be sought for admission. If St. 
Mary's College wishes to remain an ivory tower in a turbulent and changing world, then we suggest that it indeed revise its ad­missions procedure and accept 
only puppets and Yes-men. 
peace, 
Virginia Smith 
l'ete J<:vans 
Bebecca Titchey 
Candy J<:gan 
Ann <~reenburg 
Mary Beth Jones 
Mary Lynn Collins 
Mary Catherine Dean 
Joanne Casson 
Claire Wing 
Ann Houser 
Bob Higgins 
Dear Bob 

I would like to clarify a few points regarding the article by Dan Hopfer which appeared in the Observe•· yesterday. 
I do have a reviewing board for the selection of applicants for the position of Resident Assistant. The board consists of myself, Father Reihle. Dr. Ackerman, l<'ther Zang, and a committee of present Resident Assistants. 
There are several Resident 
Assistants taking the Resident 
llall Practicum this year for 3 
credits and next year all new 
H .A.'s will be required to take 
this course. 
I know you probably didn't have this information and I did want to clarify these points for you. · With all good wishes, I remain, 
Most sincerely, 
Hev. Thomas E. Chambers, 
C.S.C. Director of Student Residence. 
Sheehan letter 
J<:ditor: In a recent letter, Mr. Michael 
C. Sheehan raised some questions regarding the authority ol certain writers critical of abortion. 
To begin with, he makes the observation that we can't know for certain the exact point at which the immortal soul enters the human body. From this admitted fact he jumps to a straw man argument about the ab­surdity of considering "an aborted monkey as a murdered person." Opposition to abortion rests on more than the fetus's "resembanace to a baby." As the parents of the fetus are presumed to be human. it seems, at the very least. sporting to extend the fetus the benefit of the doubt that a human soul exists in its defen­seless body. · 
In the next paragraph, Mr. Sheehan introduces a number of concepts guaranteed to revolutionize the foundations of criminal law. First, he argues that since the arguments on abortion "are at best in­complete," a demand that one argument be accepted as law "can only be interpreted as repression." When dealing with an issue as fundamental as the extinction of life, morality and legality are not codes to be determined on an individual basis. Does Mr. Sheehan regard as "repression" the viewpoints, supported by law and force, that the lynching of prisoners or the gassing of Jews constitute wrongs. Mr. Sheehan than argues that liberalized abortion laws are defensible in that they are merely permissive, allowing the mother, who sees no evil in abortion, to choose. He states that the abortion "can not logically be construed as murder since the woman fails to accept the belief of human life in the early fetus." Fortunately, the law of murder, as of yet, rests on objective, not subjective, criteria; the purely subjective approach was ef­ficiently employed by men like A. J<:ichman who saw nothing wrong in executing those who were categorized as "subhuman." Was it an "infringement of religious freedom" for Catholic (and in­
deed, other) churchmen to 
condemn the mass murders of 
the Nazis? 
Finally, Mr. Sheehan offers the 

consoling observation that one should "not pity the unborn, for if they had a soul a merciful God would surely grant them eternal rest." The evil in the murderer is absolved by the innocence of the victim. 
Sincerely, . James R. Anthony. 
J<:ditor: 
I have followed the discussion about abortion in your paper and have finally found a point of view <in the letter of Michael C. Sheehan of February 23) that approaches moderate and fruitful consideration of the problem. 
First. let me re-stress the obvious. yet easily forgotten fact that nobody has to undergo an abortion without wishing todo so. The issue is whether or not to allow women to undergo such surgery if they find it necessary or desirable. Nobody can and will be forced to act against their belief in this strongly emotional matter. and any argument is good enough to prevent anyone from going through an abortion. I say "going through" because I am convinced that no woman would take this grave step if any other way is open to her. Any woman in her right mind will take a contraceptive rather than undergo an abortion which represents an emotional, physical and financial strain. 
The question is thus if those 
women who find it necessary to 
undergo an abortion in order to 
restrict the size of their family or 
who do not wish to have children 
are given the possibility to get 
medically competent surgery. 
There would no longer be 
unauthorized and risky attempts 
at abortion and actually 
thousands of lives could be saved 
every year. 
There is no doubt that there 
must be some restrictions on 
abortion laws. There is ample 
reason to forbid abortion at a late 
stage of pregnancy (from a medical as well as a moral point of view. ) Mutual consent of both parental parties must also be made a condition to obtaining an abortion. Such regulations will restrict abuse and at the same time allow people who feel capable of deciding in favor of abortion to take such a step . 
1 do thing that so far there has been too much theoretical talk in your column. Men can certainly comprehend only part of the emotional impact involved and for a more varied discussion it would be essential to hear the opinions of more women, some of whom may have faced or might face this very problem sometime in their lives. 
There is no denying that today's problems ask for population restriction and ways should be open at least to those who are willing to contribute to a solution by limiting the size of their family. 
I do not believe in argument such as presented by the Knights of Columbus and it is a shame to ridicule a problem of such eminent importance by taking a simplistic point of view. It is necessary to present several aspects in order to allow each individual to make his (and her) own decision. 
Sincerely, Isabelle H. Meyer 
St. Mary's finest 
Editor: 
In your February 18 edition 
Ann Therese Darin states that 
Notre Dame "will compete with 
SMC for the 300 finest and 
smartest Catholic women in the 
country." I disagree. It is obvious 
that the smartest Catholic 
women and men never have 
been. and never will be, st~pid 
enough to enroll at St. Mary's or 
Notre Dame. 
Sincerely yours, 
John W. N. Hickey 
Rl6 Leland Avenue 

the observer Monday, March 6, 1972 
ND cagers lose 20th at Dayton 


by Eric Kinkopf 
Dayton--The Notre Dan1e basketball team closed out its 1971-72 season in the same way they started it,--with a loss, as the Dayton Flyers thumped the Irish, ~6-74, in the Dayton Arena Saturday night. 
The Flyers, led by soph flash, Dan Smith, took control of the game late in the first half, and junior college transfer J.D. Grigsby made sure the Irish were down to stay in the second stanza. 
In the game that marked the end of college basketball careers for John Egart, "Walk-on" Tommy McGraw, and year-long crutch case Doug Gemmell, the Irish didn't have the steam to get back into the contest once they let the Flyers gain the upper hand. 
With the score tied at 17--all with 10:36 left in the first half, Smith woke up the Flyer fans with a dazzling long-range shooting display, canning three bombs in a row to put the Flyers ahead for good, 23-17. 
Grigsby added a lay-up, and at 7:48, Mike Sylvester sank a short jumper to put the Flyers ahead 27-18, after outscoring the Irish 10-1 in the span of two minutes and forty-eight seconds. 
Don Silinski ended the Notre Dame scoring drought with a tip­in at 7:09, and Gary Novak followed with a short jumper to cut the Flyer lead to five, 27-22. 
Tom O'Mara then converted on a one-and -one situation with 6:08 left in the half, and the Irish trailed by only three. 
But that was the closest Notre Dame got for the rest of the evening. 
With 4:32 left in the half, and trailing by only four, 32-28, the Irish went cold, and failed to score for the remainder of the half. 
And while "Digger's" club was trying to thaw its frostbitten hands, Dayton's ssmith had his burners going full blast, adding seven points to the Dayton total as the Flyers scored nine unanswered points for a 41-28 halftime lead. 
Smith took a back seat for the second half though Grigsby, who had only a 6.6 average going into the game, and just four points in the first half, scored seventeen in the second stanza and kept the 
In the space of three minutes and forty-five seconds, the 6-4 junior forward accounted for 11 of the 12 Dayton points scored during that stretch and at 13:52, the Flyer's had a twenty point lead. 58-38. 
From that point on, it was just 
a matter of the Irish trying to 
make the score respectable. 
With one last gasp, the Irish 
pulled within fourteen, as the 
Townsend brothers collaborated 
for three buckets and Tommy 
"0" added a lay-up to make it 71­
57 with 7:19 left in the game. 
The Dayton lead stayed around 
that margin until coaches Donaher and Phelps emptied their benches around the three minute mark, and the Irish pulled .to within twelve, the final 
margin of the Flyer victory. 
All year the Irish have been 
plagued by cold shooting per­
formances at one point or another 
during their games. Lacking a 
sharpshooting gunner, a 'Ia 
Austin Carr, there has been no 
one to pick up the slack when 
everyone else loses the range. 
This was more than evident 
Saturday night, when the Irish 
connected on only 28 percent of 
their attempts from the field in 
the first half, fell too far behind, 
and were never able to catch·up 
with the Flyers. 
Tom O'Mara took game 
scoring honors with a total of 23 
points, on 8 of 21 from the field, 
and 7 of 9 from the line. 
The skinny soph edged out 
Smith of the Flyers for that honor 
by one point. Smith, hitting on 8 of 
12 shots in the first half, ran into a 
cold spell in the second half, 
canning only 2 of 9 for a total of 22 
points. 
But it was Grigsby who really 
DeCicco to lead US fencing team 
Notre Dame fencing coach Mike DeCicco has been named the coach for the United States team that will compete in the 1972 Junior World Fencing Cham­pionships in Madrid, Spain March 26-April 4. DeCicco served as coach for the U.S. team at the World University Games in Turin, Italy two years ago. 

Wrestling score-1 uette 2ol



WEDNESDAY-TUESDAY March 1 -7 

WIbEl I:INBY 
no man could keep her down unti I . . . 

SECOND FEATURE 
2-LITTL LOVING 


deserved the kudos. Not only did he score 21 points, but he also hauled down 21 rebounds. 
The rest of the Irish scoring came from "Goose" Novak, who totaled 16 points, Willie and Mike Townsend, six points apiece, and John Egart, Don Silinski and Ken Wolbeck, four each. 
Chris Stevens scored three, and McGraw, Hansen, Schmelzer, and Hinga each recorded a bucket. 
The Flyers had four players in double figures. Besides Smith's 22, and Grigsby's 21, Mike Sylvester scored 14 points, and Pat Murnan added 11. 
The victory evened the Flyer's season mark at 13-13, while the loss dropped Notre Dame's final 71-72 record to 6-20. 
THE ASSOCIATION IS COMING MARCH 18 
What is lifewithout love? 
From one beer lover to another. 
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226 
----------------------------~~-~----~-~-----­
Monday, March 6, 1972 the observer 7 ­
Irish to meet Denver in playoffs 
leers split with Spartans; nip Colorado for WCHA tourney spot 

by Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 
During a season filled with bad breaks and misfortune, it sometimes seemed unlikely that Notre Dame's hockey team would qualify for the Western Collegiate Hockey Association playoffs. 
But the Irish refused to fold and won a spot in the league's post­season tournament by defeating Michigan State 6-2 Saturday night at the ACC, after losing a tough, 9-8 overtime contest Friday. 
The split left Notre Dame with a 10-16 WCHA record (14-18, 
Swimmers take 4th 
by Vic Dorr 
Notre Dame's swimming team closed out its season this past weekend with a fourth-place finish in the annual Motor City Invitational meet in Detroit. 
The Irish tankers chalked up six first place finishes and a score of team and individual records, but could only put together 91 points for their weekend's work. Eastern Michigan won the meet by piling up 230 points, while Northern Michigan (139) finished second, and Central Michigan 
(120) placed third in the seven-team event. 
NO was paced, as it has been many times this season, by fresh­man Jim Kane. Kane, the only 
Irish double winner, took first place in the 200 and 100-yard freestyle events with times of 
I:48.2 and 48.5. Both clockings are new Irish records. Notre Dame's other blue-
ribbon efforts came from Gene Krathaus in the so-yard freestyle <22.6), Joe O'Connor in the 1650­
yard freestyle (18:38,
another record), and Ed Graham in the 200-yard individual medley 
(2:02.8, also a record.) 
The remaining first-place finish came from NO's 400 -yard relay team, which swept home in a winning time of 3:16.9. 
"There were eight places in each event," said Joe O'Connor, as he explained the team's 
fourth-place finish. "And with. F~astern and Northern Michigan <who finished ·1-2), we'd usually have one or maybe two guys in there, but they'd have three or more. They swept a couple of events-took the top three places­and for something like that they'd get 20 points to our none. It was depth that got us. 
"They <Eastern, Northern, and Central Michigan) were really good," he continued, "but all of those schools are able to give out something like five swimming scholarships. We were about the only school there that didn't really financially aid its swim team. 
"We know they'd be strong, but we knew we'd win our share, too. Our team has improved a lot since last year, and we made a lot better showing than we did in last year's meet, We didn-t swim any of those top teams in dual meets this year, but I think it would have been close if we would have." , The Irish tankers, who con­cluded their season with a 7-5 mark in dual meet action, will lose very few regularly com­peting swimmers to this spring's graduation. 
"We could have an outstanding season next year," said O'Con­nor. "If we get a few breaks, and pull in some good freshmen, we could well go 9-3 or 10-2." 
overall) and in a tie for eighth Power play goals by place in the standings with Williams and Regan gave the Colorado College, which finished Irish a 5-2 advantage midway with an 11-17 slate. Both teams through the second period but the had 28 title points but the Irish Spartans closed the gap before won the playoff berth because the end of the session, Calder they had outscored Colorado 23-9 driving a shot past Notre Dame's while winning three of four Mark Kronholm while the Irish games from the Tigers this were shorthanded. season. State regained their lead in the 
Notre Dame will begin playoff first half of the third period, action tomorrow night, facing scoring four goals while Regan Denver in the opener of a two­was serving a five-minute major game, total-goal series. The penalty for drawing blood on a Pioneers annexed the WCHA high sticking violation. championship over the weekend Calder netted his third goal of by sweeping two games from the the night at 5:20, 67 seconds after Wisconsin Badgers in Madison. Hegan was sent to the penalty 
The Irish almost clinched their box. It didn't take long for the playoff position on Friday night Spartans to score again, Gagnon in a wild contest that nearly had a whipping in a slap shot from the sports fiction type of ending. left point 13 seconds later. 
A goal by Eddie Bumbacco just Gagnon's third goal of the night five seconds before the end of put State ahead at 6:38 and, after regulation play enabled the Irish a Spartan penalty left both teams to force the game into overtime with four skaters on the ice, but State's All-American center, Frank DeMarco gave MSU a two­Don "Zipper" Thompson, scored goal lead when he scored on a 
4: 18 into the extra session to spoil breakaway at 8:30. 
Notre Dame's victory hopes. It took Notre Dame a little over The Irish weren't to be denied three minutes to tie the score 
Saturday night, however. Ian again, though. Power play goals 

· Williams scored two goals and by Williams, at 9:37, and Noble, Ray DeLorenze, Bumbacco, Paul at 11:32, made it a ·7-7 game. Regan and Jim Cordes added one State regained the lead on apiece to hand the Spartans their Michael Chaurest's power play 
13th defeat in 28 league games. goal at 14:02 and it appeared that State got off to a good start in the Spartans had the victory 
the first game of the series, sewn up after that as they kept jumping out to a 2-0 lead on a the Irish at bay until the final breakaway goal by Gilles Gagnon minute. at I :59 and a score by Mark Notre Dame coach Lefty Smith Calder at 6:41 while the Irish had had pulled Kronholm with 72 two men in the penalty box. seconds left but, with 12 seconds 
But Notre Dame came battling to go, the Irish still had not scored back to move in front 3-2 before and lined up for a faceoff just the period ended. Cordes picked outside the MSU blue line. up the first Irish goal of the game Noble won the draw, getting the by backhanding a shot through puck to Bumbacco, who skated State goalie Jim Watt's legs 8:38 down the left side and fired a shot into the period. that went wide. Williams 
Williams tied the score only six retrieved the puck, however, and seconds later with a shot from the passed it out in front of the net 
d b u where Bumbacco flipped it pastright si e and John Camp e put
the Irish ahead with his tally Watt and sent the crowd into 
from the slot at 17:24. hysteria. 
Fencers win four; up record to 18-2 
record for wins in a single season. 
by Joe Wilkowski Ron Sollitto, who has come of 
The Notre Dame fencing team his own this season, went 8-1 on completed a successful Eastern the trip, giving him an im­trip this weekend, trouncing Case pressive 40-5 season's record, one Western Reserve, Cleveland victory short of the all-time State, Syracuse and Buffalo. The mark. victories boosted the fencers' Sabreman Matt Fruzynski, record to 18-2 on the year. also 8-1 on the weekend, is not far 
Friday afternoon, the Irish met behind Sollito with a 39-6 record. a tough Case Western Reserve The epee team has three men team and posted a 17-10 triumph. with 32 victories, co-captain Tim The epee team led the way with a Taylor, 5-3 on the weekend, 7-2 verdict. Sabre co-captain Chuck Harkness, 8-0, and Mike Matt Fruzynski had a fine day, Matranga, also perfect with a 7-0 defeating Frank Nogoi'ny, the slate. number two collegiate sabreman In foil, only Mike Cornwall has in the country, 5-4, as both the broken into the thirties, as his 8-1 sabre and foil teams contributed weekend upped his record to 35-9. five wins to the effort. A number of other fencers also 
The meet against Cleveland had good weekends against their State was easier, and the Irish Eastern foes. In foil, Jim rolled to a 23-4 decision. The foil Mullenix went 8-1 while Tom team led the way in this meet, Coye, in a substitute role, had a taking all nine of their bouts. perfect 6-o record. Dan Mulligan Both the epee and the sabre contributed a fine 5-3 record to teams added 7-2 records to the the sabre team. rout. Next week, the Irish fencing 
Against Syracuse on Saturday, team is idle, but a number of it was the sabre team's turn for a individuals will represent ND in perfect game, winning all nine the Annual Great Lakes Tour­matches. The foil and epee teams nament. Ron Sollitto and Matt won eight and seven bouts, Fruzynski will represent the respectively, as the Irish rom­sabre team, Tim Taylor and ped, 24-3. Chuck Harkness will go for epee, 
Five members of the fencing and Mike Cornwall and Jim team have now broken the 30 Mullenix are our foil entries in victory mark this season, and one the important tourney. The Irish of the sabremen has a chance to hope to regain the crown they lost break the all-time Notre Dame to Detroit last year. 


Notre Dame's Ian WDllams has faked Mleblgan State goalie Jim WaU to the ice and is about to fire in a shorthanded goal that gave the Irish a 5-2 lead in Saturday night's game with the Spartans at the ACC. Williams scored five goals over the weekend as the Irish split their two-game series with State and clinchecl a berth in the WCHA playoffs. 
(Photo by Joe Raymond) 

The Spartan fans were the last out the campaign because of a 
to cheer, though. Norm Barnes severe leg injury suffered last intercepted an Irish pass in the Spring. Notre Dame end just over four 
minutes into the overtime and fed 
Thompson, who skated in alone ND ok's use 
on Kronholm, faked him to the 
ice, and slid the puck into the of freshmen 
lower left corner. 
The University of Notre DameThe Irish knew they had to win Board in Control of Athletics has Saturday's game and, after a voted to support freshmantight first period, opened up a eligibility for both football andcommanding lead and recorded basketball beginning next fall.

the victory that sent them into the "The Board agreed to permitWCHA playoffs in their first year freshman to compete on thein the league. 
varsity level in the two sports,Williams and MSU's Gagnon but it did so very reluctantly,"recorded first period goals, said Rev. Edmund P. Joyce,Gagnon's coming with the Irish a executive vice president and man down, but Notre Dame chairman of the board. "Weoutscored the Spartans 4-1 in the would prefer to retain the present second stanza to virtually decide status for freshman, but ourthe issue. 

Faculty Board felt it should goDeLorenzi put Notre Dame in along with the recent NCAAfront to stay with a slap shot from resolution in view of the fact that the slot just 49 seconds after the other major independants andopening faceoiff and Bumbacco conferences have already madetipped one past Watt at 10:44 to freshmen eligible."

make it 3-1. 
The reluctance in approvingThompson cut the Irish ad­freshman eligibility stemmed vantage to 3-2 with an unassisted from the Board's concern of the score at 12:21 but a goal by Regan academic adjustment required of at 13:57 and a shorthanded tally freshmen, according to athletic by Williams at 15:18 put the game director Edward W. Krause. 

out of State's reach. 
"The classroom transition from 

Cordes, one of four seniors high school to college is a difficult making their final home ap­one and the pressure of varsitypearance, concluding the scoring competition may hinder a boy'sby beating Watt with a 2G-footer academic progress. Con­at 17:29 of the third period. 
sequently, we feel that freshmen Notre Dame's outstanding will have to be watched verygoalie, Dick Tomasoni, finished a carefully to insure normal 

tremendous four year career by aacademic achievment." stopping 39 State shots and Krause also expressed the hope 
making several spectacular that the NCAA would "make 
saves. 
comprehensive surveys of the 

The other Irish icers playing effects of freshman eligibilitytheir last game were winger Joe after next season to determine if Bonk and co-captain Kevin continuation of the rule is 
Hoene, a left wing who had to sit warranted." 
Irish place fifth in IC4A's 
Paced by Tom McMannon's Freshman shot putter Greg first place finish in the 60-yard Cortina finished second in the high hurdles, the Notre Dame shot event with a toss of 58-2, and track team placed fifth in the Elio Polselli placed fifth in that ICAAAA indoor Track Cham-same event with a 55-9 effort. pionships Friday and Saturday in The Irish tallied eighteen Princeton, New Jersey. points in the competition, 
The junior from Highland fin~shing b~hind Pennsylvani_a, 26 Heights, Kentucky, who has pomts,. VIllanova,. 24 pomts, already qualified for the NCAA Adelphi, 21 pomts, and indoor championships in the Manhattan. . , . same event, took the blue ribbon Th!~ of C~ach ~IIso~ s md<>?r with a clocking of 7.3 seconds. sp~Iahsts will be m action agam 
thJs weekend at the NCAA Indoor 

Mike McMannon turned in a Championships in Detroit,second place performance in the Michigan.tripe jump with an effort of 48-6, Eric Penick will be competingand added a fourth place finish in in the 60-yard dash, Greg Cortina the tong jump with a leap of 23-8. in the shot event, and Tom 
Mike also finished fifth, behind McMannon in the 60-yard high brother Tom in the 60-yard highs. hurdles. 

---------·---------------~------. 



the observer 
Monday, March 6, 1972 

Long to deliver lecture series 
Strategies to minimize the risk of nuclear war and bend technology to the service of broad national goals will be examined in a series of Peter C. Reilly Lectures this week <March 6-10) at the University of Notre Dame. 
Dr. Franklin A. Long, director of the Program on Science, Technology and Society and professor of chemistry at Cornell l lniversity, will deliver three lectures Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 4:30 pro in Room 123 of the Nieuwland Science Hall. A member of the U.S. President's 
Registrars 
•
sworn 1n 
A Notre Dame student and a St. 
Mary's student were recently 
sworn in by Corrine Wroblewski, 
St. Joseph County Board of 
":Iections Registrar, as a Deputy 
llegistration Officers for the 
Notre Dame-St. Mary's com­
munity. 
The students, Joseph Hen­derlong, a freshmen from Naples, Fla.. and Ms. Sheila <'ulligan. a junior from Glen Bock. N.J. are appointed to register any Notre Dame or St. Mary's student who lives on or off-campus as voters in the State of Indiana. 
The two students who were selected from the Notre Dame \'oter Registration Drive, are attempting to get all the students at ND registered before their commission expires on March 17, 1972. 
Anyone interested in registering should contact Mr. llenderlong at 6893 or Ms. < 'ulligan at 4147. 
SPECIAL SCHOLARSHIP 

CL OF ':at ONLY.
r--------------,
Scholarship Includes: 2-year tuition ... free! $100 II monthly. Book allowance, lab fees, etc. 
I How to qualify: I 
Just send in the coupon, or talk to the Professor of 1
I 
Aerospace Studies on your campus. (If you're class II of '75, next year is your year.} 
U.S. Air Force Recruiting Service
I I 
Directorate of Advertising (APV) Randolph Air Force Base
I I 
Texas 78148 
., 
Please send me more information on your 2-year scholarship
I I 
program.
I I
Name_______________Birth Date______ 
Address.______________________Sex______
I I 
City______(ounty______State____Zip___
I I
Present College_______Future College________ 
I understand there is no obligation.

I I 
I FIND YOURSELF A SCHOLARSHIP I 
______________...
IN AIR FORCE ROTC. 
2-NR-321 
Science Advisory Committee under presidents Eisenhower, Kennedy and Johnson, Long has served as assistant director of the l I.S. Arms Control and Disar­mament Agency and as a member of the Arms ·Control Body. He participated in the llarriman Mission to Moscow which successfully negotiated the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. 
His talks will be titled "Proton Transfer from Cyanocarbon Acid: Kinetics and Isotope Ef­fects" <Monday, " Chemistry and Society" <Wednesda and 

SMORGASBORD 
Every Mo.nday 5-9 pm $1.25 All you can eat 
Every Wednesday evening $1.00 PITCHER NIGHT AND LIVE ENTERT~INMENT 
.. Arms Control and Disar­mament: An International Problem or a National One?" 1l<'riday l. The public is invited to attend. 
Long is chairman of the Committee on Chemistry and l'ublic Affairs of the American <'hemical Society, and serves on the board of directors of the "Bulletin of Atomic Scientist" and as consulting editor to "American Scientists." 
The Peter C. Reilly Lectures are sponsored by the College of Science 
FFER. 
Every Friday night 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
Every Saturday night 
POLKA BAND·DANCING 
Open Weekdays 11 
LAUREL &HARDY· 

PIZZA PALACE 
4ti10Westem Ave. Belleville Shoppin~ c"enter 
Phone 289-7983 
~~~~ B. !<'rick, suffered a heart attack Saturday night and \~\~ ::~ was taken to St. Joseph's Hospital. His condidtion as of :::: ~~:~ Sunday ::tfternoon, was reported fair. ' :~:l 
::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::r::..:.::~===~======:=:::!:?.!:!:;:::::::~!:!:!:!:!:!:~;!!:!:"~;:::=:~:::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::c::::::::::::!:! 
CLASSIFIED ADS.  
1967 Dodge Dart, 2 door, 6·NOTICES cylinder, automatic, radio, snow tires, new battery, turquoise,.NOTICE: SOPHOMORE excellent condition. Call JOHNARKIES NOW COLLECTING 283-6720.POP CANS FOR RECYCLING PROGRAM BRING DONATIONS FOR RENTTO SOUTH Sl DE BASEMENT OF ARCHITECTuRE BUILDING. Furnished 2 Bedroom house for, rent in Roseland. Call 272-6086,:Recycle your books with Pandora. after 5 pm.South Bend-Notre Dame Avenues. WANTED Charity Bake Sale. Huddle. Sat.• POETRY WANTED for An­March 11. 9:00-4:00. thology. Include stamped en­velope. ldlewold press, 1807 E.Parts and Accessories for lm· Olympic Boulevard, Los Angles,ported Cars. Foreign Car Parts California. 90021.Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 272-7187. Socioloqy Major needs couples living togetherm n'JI married, to . DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and answer questionnaire. Please callWithin Europe. Leave anytime 234·1926.from NY·Chicago. Flight Center ----------­227 North Randall. Madison, WI Wanted: Mature, in tell ignet53705. (608) 263-3131. participants for group sexual encounter. Serious replies only­New 7th and 9th grade classical­Confidential Interviews by mail.christian school needs English, Box 171 NO Station.Latin. Math and Science teachers. Since salaries will be small the Scalpers! Wanted: 1 ticket forfirst year, we're looking for Vienna Symphony Orchestra.~raduate students (perferably Will pay through the nose!!! Callwith Masters) to work part-time KEN 8761, 427 Stanford.while at Notre Dame. Send vita, references, etc. to Magdalen 2 need ride to Minneapolis. LeaveSchool, P.O. Box 1225, South Bend, March 22. Share Exp. Call 1552 or46624. 4407.----------­---­--·-------­HEY! Edge City, St. Mary's Need ride from Louisville FridayCoffeehouse LIVES. Every March 10 or back on SundaySunday night, 8·12. Best local March 12. Call 234-6689.talent. ~ood coffee. Just a quarter. Need ride to Albany, March 8or 9. Call 8988.CHIMES accepting poetry, fie· -­------------­lion, essays, qraphics. Submit to PERSONALSD. Kerr 533 mcCandless, R. --­-----------Campell 813 Grace, T. Knoles-P. Creep,Smith 334 Dillon. I was just too much for you to handle.Need it typed tonite? We will do PANGBORN'S "CONCEITED"typing AT ANY TIME· for FLAMEreasonable prices. Call ABC Enterprises at 8256 (CHIP) or 6963 Van,(MIKEl. It hasn't been Funky, But it's been Real.Student Union Buses to O'Hare MunchkinMarch 22. NO to O'Hare 1:30pm. April 4 O'Hare to NO 8 pm. Revolving Door:Tickets on sale at the 1st Bank You are wearing out your phone.Campus travel office $5 one-way. TsitsiepoopooAll Sales Final. Teaman NASSAU TRIP MARCH 24-31. 8 days and 7 nights with quad ac­Alison, never grow up ... com. Air fare and Hotel may be Not even a fraction of an inch.Purchased separately. Limited Don't even try or ask why!number of seats available. But should someone try to makeTickest on Sale at Student Union you,Ticket office. S202 inclusive. 'I'll take you to never-never land.Questions, Call: 7757. Happy Birthday! Peter PanFOR SALE JKP,MGB '66 .. Hard & Soft top, ex. Happy 20th! Celebrate incellent engine. 234-2376. Bowling Green tonight, right? CurtainsFor Sale: 1953 purple bus. $75 or best offer by Wednesday, March "Wives are good lovers to other8. Call Crew Club C-0 Steve men, too" ... apparentlySuccini 1076. For Sale: 1956 Oldsmobile LOST AND FOUND Holiday. Call 8098, DAN. Lost: gold rimmed glasses near. Stuffed chairs-super cheap; Senior Bar. C;~ll John 234-2484. mandolin·Excellent condition; Cot; 1966 Sunbeam · low price. · Lost : Blue cotton N D Band Call 259-0482. jacket. Laundry tag on label. JFB 1927. Reward. Engagement Rings, Watches . Tremendous Savings, Complete Lost: 1 PRINCIPLES OF line. Call TOM 3575. MANAGEMENT BOOK IN O'SHAG HALL. CALL BOB 8-406. PANASONIC AM-FM Stereo Receiver and Speakers, GARRARD SL9S-B turntable with base,dustcover EMPIRE 888VEX Words 1da 2da 3da 4da 5da Cilrtridge and matching preamp. 1·10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 9 mos. old. BEAUTIFUL CON­11-15 1.00 1.50 1.15 2.10 2.40 DITION. !310.00 new. 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2. 95 SACRIFICE $160.00. Call KEN 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45'8633. 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 Michelin X tires 165-380-15 with 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 tubes. For all VW Bugs; most 15" 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 1.20 sports and imports: Less than 46·50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 2,(>00 miles. $80 for 3 tires or Best Offer. 255-6726.  









