On The Inside 
Freshmen elect class officers .•. page 3 St. Mary's is 128 years old ... page 5 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 26 Friday, October 13, 1972 
Etienne elected SBVP 
Senate abolishes sell at last meeting 
by David Rust Observer Staff Reporter 

Ed Gray resigned as student body vice­president and Dennis Etienne was elected to the vacated post during last night's Student .senate meeting in the student government offices at LaFortune Student Center. 
By an 8-1 vote the Senate also ratified a new student government constitution, thereby dismantling the Senate and replacing it with a Board of Commissioners as the government's legislative branch. . . 
According to the new constitution, the Board will consist of the six student members of the Student Life Council, the chairman of the Hall Presidents Council, and the student body president and vice-president. . . 
The election of Etienne to the VIce-presidency places him with SLC members Fred Giuffrida, Frank Devine Anthony Abowd, Floyd Kezele, Matt Cavanaugh and Jim Hunt, HPC chairman William "Butch" Ward and Student Body President Bob Kersten on the board. 
The creation of the board was the only major innovation characterizing the new Notre Dame undergraduate student government constitution. All legislative duties and powers assigned to the student senate were given to the new board. 
In the future according to the new con­stitution, the si~ on the board not serving as president or vice-president of the. student ~ or HPC chairman, will be elected m the sprmg by the student body as members of the Board. The board members will be appointed to the SLC after their election. 
The six districts in which each election will take place are set by the new constitution and are the same as those used in this year's SLC election, with the addition of Old College to District 6. 
Three amendments were proposed during the meeting to the draft prepared by a student 
government  constitutional  committee  of  last  
year.  
The section  requiring  a  constitutional  con­ 

vention was deleted. Stay Senator T.C. Treanor sponsored the amendment. 
An amendment calling for a "majority of 50 percent plus one of the votes cast" sufficient to elect a commissioner in each district passed. 
By a 5-4 vote an amendment to require that no Board of Commissioners member be a "mem­ber" of the campus media was tossed out. 
Arguments offered by those opposed to the amendment, including Etienne, reasoned that the amendment was vague, unfair and un­necessary. President Kersten labeled its failure 
That's a lot of .•. 
An accidental truck fire added this scene to the sights of the Nieuwland bus stop yester­day. Sharp eyes will spot a familiar publication in its final journey, one completed after a six-hour respite. 

Lobby proposal clears second committee hurdle 
Twenty four hour open lobbies at Saint Mary's came one step closer to becoming a reality last night as the SMC Student Affairs Committee unanimously passed the proposal "with minor amendments," according to Student Body Vice-President Sue Welte. 
Welte emphasized, however, that the changes did nothing to change the context of the original statement, which was published in full in the Observer two weeks ago upon its passage by the Student Assembly. 
"The only point of note was the insertion of a clause in the appendix which would provide for a firelock on the back door of the Reignbeaux in LeMans," Welte explained. 
Dean of Students Kathleen Mulaney noted that it was "significant that the proposal passed the tri-partite committee unanimously." 
The committee is comprised of the hall presidents, five representatives from the student assembly, three faculty members (Dr. John McDonagh of the psychology department, Mrs. Pat Pilger of the sociology department, Bro. Bernard Donahoe of the history department), three administrators (Dean of Students Kathleen Mulaney, Director of Placement Janice Wheaton, Sr. Bettina, Director of Holy Cross Hall), and Fr. Roger Cormier, representing campus ministry. 
Mulaney recalled that the subject of open lobbies had come up in discussion at the Board meeting last spring and at that time there appeared to be no opposition to it, but she also noted that "It's a new Board now," and no one could speculate on their reception of the proposal. 
The proposal faces its next test when it comes before I 
1
the Student Affairs Council within the next two weeks. 
If it is approved there, it will then go before the Board 1 
of Regents at their November 4 meeting for the final 
decision. 
In other business, the committee elected Student 1 Assembly Representative Janet Ryan chairperson for the year. 
j 
Observer/Chess Club 
chaznp announced 
••• story on page 11 


1 1 
·~ 

"a damn shame." 

After the call to order by chairman Kersten, the chair asked for opposition from the floor to setting the quorum at the number of senators present <ninel. No opposition was noted. 
Later in the meeting, during -iiscussion of the constitution itself, St. Ed's Senator Frank McLaughlin raised objection to having the senate vote on the new constitution, suggesting that the constitution be brought before the student body for their consideration. 
"I object to having this constitution passed by a body like this," said McLaughlin. "I don't think it's fair to the student body; I don't think it's fair to us." 
Student Government Treasurer Mike Marget answered that the matter was one of "ex­pediency." Citing specific examples from the past, he told the Senate he believed that 60 percent of the student body, the percentage required by the old constitution, would not show up to vote. 
Kersten called the decision a choice between the lesser of two evils, ·favoring the Senate's ratifying the constitution. 
McLaughlin held to his objection and cast the only dissenting vote. 
(continued on page 11) 

r-
r ~2~------t~h~e~o~b~S~e~rv~e~r_________ __ __
F_ri_da~y~,_Oc m_~_r 13~,-19_7_2 
r 
~ 
warld briefs 
(c) 1912 New Ywll Tlaea 

Washington-The Senate confirmed the appointment of Gen. Creighton W. Abrams as Army Chief of Staff. But the 84 to 2 vote did not end the controversy over the unauthorized bombing of North Vietnam. Two Democratic Senators, Harold E. Hughes of Iowa and William Proxmire of Wisconsin, threatened to delay future promotions of senior officers unless the Pentagon takes immediate steps to improve its command and control procedures. 
Washington--Stymied by a filibuster of Northern senators, who defeated three attempts to shut off debate, the Senate voted to set aside a bill aimed at preventing cross-town busing of students to desegregate public schools. The bill, which had passed the House, had the support of a majority of the Senate and the backing of the Nixon Administration. But supporters of the legislation could not muster the two-thirds majority required for closure. 
Washington--Sources close to the Watergate bugging investgation say that a former assistant attorney general obtained confidential information from the Justice Department after he had resigned to work for the Committee for the Re-Election of the President. But the sources, who reported that the information was used in committee reports, said there is no evidence that the former official had any advance knowledge of the alleged attempt to bug the Headquarters of the Democratic National Committee. 
Washington--Henry A. Kissinger flew home from Paris Thursday to report to President Nixon on his four days of private talks with North Vietnamese negotiators. As usual, no details of the talks were disclosed. 

f_riday 
2: !lO--ilolf meet, notre dame cross country In­vitational, university golf course 
7:oo-rally, nd vs pittsburgh pep rally, con­vocation center (featuring paul horning). 
7:00 & lO:oo-movie, el cid, zagrans's zinema west, flanner basement. 
8: GO-meeting, duplicate bridge, university club. 8:3o---drama, lion In winter, nd-smc theater, o'laughlin auditorium. 9:00-5: oo-program, peace corps-vista, library 
concourse. saturday 
10: 3o---dedication, ceramic wall by h. james paradis, sculpture garden, moreau hall. 
1: 30-football, notre dame vs. pittsburgh, nd stadium. 
7:00 & 10:00-movie, el cid, zagrans's zinema 
west, flanner basement. 8:3o-concert, guess who and white trash, ace. 
sunday 
9: 30-meeting, a I u m nae board, presidents conference room, lemans hall. 
7:0o-auditions, winnie the pooh, little theatre, moreau hall, smc. 
Campus Ro•dup 

Chem lectures next week 
Chemical reactions involving for the College; to provide a means Seven hundred thirty-five of a "excited-state intermediates" will whereby parents may transmit total 980 were interviewed in an be the focus of three Reilly Lec­their ideas. effort which made repeated at­tufes in Chemistry Monday The day's events will begin with tempts to reach every student. through Friday <Oct. 16-20) at the a morning coffee and the meeting Each was contacted on an in­University of Notre Dame. Dr. called to order by the Chairman of dividual, person-to-person basis 
Anthony M. Trozzolo of the Bell the Board of Directors Parents' using the same set of questions i~ Telephone Laboratories will Council, the Honorable Daniel J. every case. These precautions and discuss these reactions, important McNamara, Chicago. Dr. Edward the large survey indicate a high in such diverse problems as smog L. Henry, President, Saint Mary's degree of reliability in reflecting formation and lasers. College, will welcome the parents the views of Hanover students. 
The "excited state" is reached and brief them on the College's Results which were printed in when chemical compounds absorb Planning Process. Dr. William the Hanover Triangle last Friday
' 
energy, particularly in the form of Hickey, Vice President for show Otis Bowen with a com­r light. These compounds then Academic Mfairs, will discuss manding lead in the race for 
I ~ 
~ 
behave differently from the with the group Academic Governor, receiving the support of
r 
unexcited compounds, or "ground Developments. 51 per cent of the Indiana
I 
state." Trozzolo's three talks are In the afternoon, Sister M. residents, with 25 per cent un­on the general topic "Creation and Raphaelita, C.S.C., Director of committed and 24 per cent for 
' 
' Detection of Unstable Organic Admissions, will present Ad­Matthew Welsh. 
Intermediates." They include: missions and Recruiting
~ 
r --"Photochromism in Three­Developments. Dr. Mary Alice Membered Heterocycles" at 4:30 Cannon, Vice President for Student ~ p.m. Monday in Room 123 Affairs, and Jean Seymour.Niuwland Science Hall. Student Body President, wul -"SinglP.t Molecular Oxygen" at discuss Student Activities with a 
4:30 p.ll}. Wednesday in ~oom question and answer period.
123 of the Nieuwland Science Hall. The day will close with dinner --"The Chemistry of Eye and attendance at "The Lion in 
Lasers" at 3 p.m. Friday in the Winter" in O'Laughlin
Conference Room of the Radiation Auditorium. 
Research Building. 

Voter poll released 
Council meets 

John Hinton, chairman of a 
The Board of Directors of the bipartisan voter survey group at Saint Mary's College Parents' Hanover College, has released the Council meet at the College on results of a college-wide pollFriday, October 13, 1972. conducted September 18-23 which 
The objectives of the Parents' shows Republican Otis R. Bowen 
Council is to strengthen the bond with better than a two-to-one between the College and the margin over his opponent, Mat­parents of the students; to keep thew Welsh in the race for parents alerted of the College's Governor. The survey was made policies, plans, activities; to assist in conjunction with a registration in recruiting students and friends drive. 
University of Notre Dame 

Concerts 
presents 
little Theatre of Sicilian Puppets 
in 
DON QUIXOTE 
Thursday, Oct. 19 8:15p.m. 
WASHINGTON HALL ~dmission -$3.00 ($2.00 students) Call 283-6211 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of 
the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second -class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 





STEAK 
YOUR DATE 
Treat her tender. We've got a sir­loin guaranteed to put more sizzle in your dating. Served with baked potato, tossed salad and hot buttered roll. 

$1.89 

PDNDIRDSA 

STEAK HOUSE 

52627 U.S. 31 N. and Town & Country Shopping Ctr. 
~ Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. Dally. Fri. and Sat. to 10 P.M. ~ 
~~........______.___..,~ 

Friday, October 13, 1972 the observer 
3 

Bradley wins presidency .. 
Freshmen officers elected 
by Lee E. Klosinski Observer Staff Reporter 
Culminating a week of robust campaigning, freshmen elections were held yesterday. Sophomore class president Dave Yates an­nounced that Jim Bradley will serve as president, Mary Dondanville as vice-president, Shiela Elsner as secretary, and Pat Dore as treasurer. 
After explaining some technical problems which prevented some halls from voting at the posted times, the results were given. 965 students, about half of the class, gave it one of the hightest voting percentages in recent years. 
Presidential winner Bradley polled 191 votes; his closest op­ponent was Carl Bitler with 103 votes. In the vice-presidential race, Dondanville took 229 votes to 
Ed  Reilly's  165,  who  was  her  
closest rival.  
Newly  elected  president  Jim  

Bradley thanked all of the students who "bothered to vote." He con­tinued, "I hope that my teachers understand the time that I sacrificed. By May I'm sure that the class will be happy with their 
. "':·'.· -:-~:.:::::-. 

·TICKET EXCHANGE PROGRAM 
NO-MISSOURI GAME OCT. 21 
STUDENTS WHO WISH TO TURN IN TICKETS--GO TO SECOND FLOOR TICKET WINDOW ACC--MON. AND TUES. 
·OCT. 16th and '17th 9-4 
GIVE A CHILD A CHANCE TO SEE A GAME. 

HOUND DOG TAYLOR 
AND 

THE HOUSEROCKERS 
Sunday Oct. 15 8 P.M. Wash. Hall Doors open at 7:30 $1.50 

choices." 

Pat Dore, the class's new treasurer, stated that this year's class will get off to a firm financial start. He also emphasized that "this class will do more than any that has preceded it." 
Due to a mix-up in time schedules, Dondanville and Elsner could not be reached for comment. 
Frosh victors 
Newly elected freshman class president Jim Bradley (center) congratualtes class treasurer Pat Dore (right) while Bradley's campaign manager looks on. 

SMC plans 'experiments' 
On the recommendation of Dr. Edward L. Henry, President, Saint Mary's College, the Office for Experimental Programs has been created. This new program will be headed by Dr. William A. Hickey, Vice President for Academic Affairs. 
The purpose of this program is to encourage faculty to unleash their creativity and to become im­mediately and effectively involved in curriculum reform. This program will allow for ex­perimentation on a "trial period". The College administration sup­ports the program, emphasizing 
the great need for education in­novation. 
Student attacked The procedure is such that a 
proposal is submitted to the Office of Experimental Programs. An on ND avenue byadhoc committee reviews it and if 'it is given the approval for adop­unknown robbers tion, the proposal is given a two­
. year experimental trial period. 
I~ t~e latest. of a senes of rob-During this time, no full com­berJes m the neighborhood, a Notre mittment is made, rather an op­Dame student was attack~ and portunity for creativity, correction robbed on ~otre Dam~ Av~~ue and evaluation. After the two-year Wednesday mght. The umdenbfied period, the proposal is formally stude_nt was taken to St. Joseph presented to the College for con­Hospital for razor cuts on the neck, sideration to become an integral according to Capt. Richard part of curriculum. Albright, a detective on the South . 
Bend police force. One exa!'flple of an expenmental 
Albright said that "three or program 1s the new Fall course four" strong arm robberies had "The Culture ~f Yout~"? Depart­occurred on Notre Dame Avenue in ment of EducatiOn. This IS offered the last week and a half. to freshmen and sophomores, in 
A strong arm robbery means the helping them familiarize with the youth culture (12-16). Visits are made to many local agencies who work directly with that age group. Each student makes a com­mittment of volunteer service in the second quarter of the semester to one of the agencies. A text is required, Daedalus' Twelve to Sixteen. 
Students will lead seminar discussions, keep a log of their experiences, and write an in-depth case report of one experience. The entire course experience is to assist the student in determining her future study in education and­or community services op­portunities ·in other related disciplines: sociology, psychology, political science. 


victim was assaulted physically prior to the theft but no weapon was used. The Wednesday incident was the first one in which the assailant used a weapon. 
Albright believes "a small group of 13 to 16 year-olds on the prowl" is responsible for the robberies. No suspects were pinpointed as of Thursday night. Not all the victims have been ND students. Some of the older people who also live in the neighborhood were also assaulted, Albright noted. He added that none of the victims were women. 
Beautiful Nurses 
Friday Nite, 8:30 pm Memorial Hospital Nursing School 
MIXER Live Band Refreshments Adm $1.00 
120 W. Navarre St. 

the observer Friday, October 13, 1972 
Steering committee proposal 
Female SLC seat asked 
by Jim Gresser Obst>rver Staff Reporter 

The Steering Committee of the Student Life Council proposed the creation of a new seat on the council to be specifically filled by a female student. SLC Chairman Fred Giuffrida ; and Vice­Chairman Robert Ackerman asked special Badin and Walsh Hall Council meetings last night to draw up the specifics of that proposal. 
Ackerman cited the need for female point of view on the SLC. He also noted that at the time of the SLC elections "neither Badin or Walsh were organized enough" in their own hall government to provide the opportunity of a fair female candidacy. The halls had "no tradition so the girls were left to provide their own system without foundation." The women, therefore, were too involved with their internal hall affairs to give proper attention to the SLC. 
"The opportunity" for female representation," he said, "is the concern because there was no real opportunity before." 
Form of the Proposal 

Giuffrida said that the proposal 
could take various forms. It could 
create a completely separate seat 
for a woman, give half of a vote to 
the newly elected woman while the 
other half could go to the regular 
district 5 representative, Frank 
Devine, or take one of the two seats 
held ex-officio by Dennis Etienne, 
student provost. Other possibilities 
include electing two women with a 
half of a vote each. Giuffrida said 
that this "may prove for the bet­
ter" because it would add to the 
Ballot on page 9 

amount of female opinion on the council. Devine respo~ds 
Responding last night to a rumor that he was planning to resign his seat in the Student Life Council in favor of a woman from Badin­Walsh. District 5 SLC member Frank Devine answered a firm "No." 
"I have told the student 
government that I would be very 
much willing to give up my 
commissionership on the Board of 
Commissioners, the new govern­
ment legislative arm, to a 
woman," said Devine. "But I 
refuse to give up my place with the · 
Student Life Council, while they 
have an already vacant seat 
available which should be given to 
a woman." 
There were no women can­
didates in the running for Devine's 
seat when elections were held in 
his district, including halls Badin 
and Walsh, Sept. 21. One female 
candidate entered the race when 
the Walsh and Badin votes were 
disqualified. 
However, at that time SLC 
members were not also being 
elected to the Board of Com­
missioners, a body which did not 
even exist until the now defunct 
Student Senate breathed life into it 
last night. 
"If a woman is to be given a seat 
on the SLC, let it be the extra one 
(new student body vice-president 
Dennis) Etienne has left," says 
Devine. 
He refers to the seat vacated when Etienne, who was sitting for student body president Bob Ker­sten on the SLC, was elected to the 
Peace group polls ND-SMC students 
vice-preslden'cy to replace resignee Ed Gray, thus giving Etienne his own seat and leaving 
. an open spot. "Besides, it's not true to say that 
' I cannot represent Badin and Walsh just as well as any woman," claims Devine. "I'm terribly proud to be representing Badin and Walsh, and I know their problems." 
Possible Administration Veto 
"The most important function of the new proposal," Giuffrida said, "is not the vote but rather the speaking privilege and getting the girls' ideas." 
Floyd Kezele, SLC Steering Committee member said however that refusal to give the new member a vote would "smack of tokenism." 
The question of a new voting seat is subject to veto by the University President, Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, and the Board of Trustees. Citing possible ad­ministration objection to upsetting the balance between the eight faculty seats, the eight ad­ministration seats and the eight students seats, Guiffrida said women were necessary on the Council "whether they could vote or not." 
Tokenism and preferential trt>atment 
The Badin and Walsh counciis along with off-campus women will prepare a joint resolution before the Monday SLC meeting, Ackerman repeatedly stressed the need to consider the thirty-three off-campus women as all Notre Dame women students will vote in this election. 
At the Walsh Council meeting following Ackerman and Guif­frida's appearance, some students, led by Judy Offerle said that the 


Dr. Robert Ackerman (left) and Fred Giuffrida (right) 
To 

discuss a proposal to add a new seat to the SLC. 
Life! 

whole proposal was "pure tokenism." She also stressed the fact that the SLC came to the women and that the women "were not complaining for special at­tention." 
SLC issues and women 
Asked why it was important to have women's opinions at the Council, Ackerman pointed to the issues which need femal per­spective. "For example," he said, "the dorm situation. Should we have co-ed dorms ... who's going to move off campus next year ... which dorms will be turned into femal residences next year?" 
He noted that last year that decision "was made with very little student input and more will be needed this year." 
Only for this year 
Ackerman and Giuffrida both stressed that this would probably be a one year set-up. "Next year," Giuffrida said, "we'll go back to the regular districts." 

Trying to focus public attention on the effort to end the Vietnam war, the national organization Peace Alert USA is publishing a poll today in the Observer. The full-page ad encourages members of Notre Dame-St. Mary's to respond to the question: "Are the Candidates You plan to Vote for Pledged to End the War?" 
The poll being published nationwide (including a full-page ad in the October 24 issue of The New York Times) is part of an ad campaign initiated by Peace Alert USA on May 28 of this year. The purpose of the series, in essence, is to determine the opinion of the American public with regard to ending the Vietnam war. Responses are tabulated and reported to the decision-makers in Congress. 
The on-campus representative of the Washington D.C.-based organization is Patrick Donahue, formerly of Senator Harold Hughes' !D.-Iowa) staff and now a first-year student at Notre Dame law school. 
He said that the movement is currently preparing for the next session of Congress, and is con­centrating its efforts on fund­
raising activities while Congress is 
adjourned. 
Donahue said he feels that a good 
response from the readership of 
the Observer would be very helpful 
to their cause of peace. 
National co-chairmen of Peace 
Alert USA are Senator Harold 
Hughes !D-Iowa), Congressman 
Paul McCloskey <R-Calif.), 
Senator Alan Cranston (0-Calif.), 
and Congressman Donald Riegle, 
Jr. {R-Mich.). Its membership 
also includes University President 
Father Theodore M. Hesburgh. 
Open house set 
for SB center 
Notre Dame students and faculty members are invited to attend an Open House inaugurating the Meadowbrook Community Center this Sunday, Oct. 15, from 2-5 p.m. The center is located at 52792 Hastings Road in South Bend. 
The president of the new Center is Mr. Ernest Miltenberger. The principal speaker at the Open House will be U.S. Congressman John Brademas. 
In the· heart of downtown South Bend 


·Sea Food -plea·sant. -surro·-vndings 
CLOSED MONDAYS 
Daff..y & Sunday 11 am. till 9 pm 
Saturd~ ­11 am trn, 10 ptit 
NOW AVAILABLE AT-THE NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
THE GLORY 
OF 
NOTRE DAME 
It is a volume no Notre Dame fan can be without. It is a volume no football fan can do without. It is the story of Notre Dame football, covered by the magazine and the writers that were there as each chapter was unfolding. And it is the story of those kids who 
came  up  out  of  the  
railroad  towns  and  
cities  and  farms,  and  

who saw those dreams fulfilled--not only for personal glory, but for The Glory of Notre Dame. 
~ ..$6. 9 5 
also available 
PARSEGHIAN AND NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL 
by Ara Parseghian and Tom P agna · ... $9.95 
2nd Floor 
NOTRE  DAME:  ITS  
PEOPLE  AND  
LEGENDS  

by Francis Wallace ... Special $1.96 

Friday, October 13, 1972 
the observer 
5 

SMC celebrates 128th birthday 
by Colleen Feehan Observer Staff Reporter 
Students and faculty sang their Happy Birthday to Saint Mary's yesterday celebrating Founder's Day, 1972. 
St. Mary's College was founded in 1844 in Bertrand, Michigan by the Sisters of the Holy Cross. Ten years later the school was transferred from Bertrand to Notre Dame, In­diana, and was the first Catholic Women's College em­powered to grant degrees.Since that time the college has expanded tremendously in size and in academics. 
Its 128 years of existence and progress was commemorated Thursday by three women-oriented seminars, a Mass and a cake cutting ceremony. 
The seminars, held informally in Stapleton Lounge, examined the role of woman in society from three per­
..
.. 
spectives: the professional view, led by faculty wives Reenie the Women's Liberation movement is its ability to point out Horning and Hilda Bomer; the psychological view, presented the many different life style options that women have. by Penny Jamieson of Saint Mary's psychology department; ---most minority women are not concerned as much with and the political view, offered by Dr. Alan Nasser of the Women's Lib because they are still striving to be recognized philosophy department, sociology doctoral candidate Lucy in their race or creed. Perry, and SMC English major Marion Lusardi. Perry is Following the discussions and Mass, President Edward also chairman of the South Bend Women's Political Caucus. Henry cut the huge birthday cake displayed at SMC's 
Some of the issues discussed yesterday: festively-decorated dining hall. Hats, noisemakers, and 
---Jamison claims women's IQ's are superior to males party paraphenalia were distributed to all, and a group of before puberty but begin to decline thereafter. The Notre Dame students with a banjo provided songs and en-psychology professor added that males are more capable of tertainment. . handling abstract ideas while women show better per-The college archives were also opened to the public in the formance in verbal subjects. Angelicum (240 Moreau Hall), Bertrand Hall, and the Chapel 
---the male tendency is to overrate himself while women of the House of Loretto. The Moreau-Hammes Galleries tend to underrate themselves on intellectual abilities, ac-presented an exhibit of historical photographs of the college. 
cording to Jamison. ---Nasser's claim that the "most advantageous" aspect of 

Why hear Shriver? 'Cause he's Shriver 
by Greg Rowinski Observer Staff Reporter 

A warm corwd, estimated as equal to the group which greeted Senator Ted Kennedy last week, welcomed Sargent and Eunice Shriver back to Notre Dame campus. 
The audience more than filled the chairs set up in Stepan Center. Many arrived just before the vice-presidential candidate, prompting one student to remark as he came in at 1:20, "There aren't very many people here." But the more tardy filled the center. 
Patriotic marches blared as the students patiently awaited the candidate. Signs in the lobby welcomed "Sarge and Eunice" and called for the freeing of Martha Mitchell. McGovern supporters sold $25 worth of silk-screened "Napoleon Waterloo Nixon Watergate" teeshirts, which will also be sold at the dining halls. An independent button salesman reported that sales were "good." 
The crowd came for various reasons. One spectator anticipated a "big announcement, but even if he doesn't say anything new, I'd like to hear what he has to say." 
Many cam just to "hear what Shriver bas to say," including Bill McDermott, a . St. Joe's ·· freshman. Junior Jennifer Johnson from McCandless said she came "because he's Sargent Shriver," but added that she would also see the Republican vice-presidential candidate if he came to campus. 

Many came out of curiosity, including Mary Dolan, a McCandless senior and Freshman Kevin McGraw of St. Joe's. Off-campus junior Kevin Graham came, not expecting anything new, but to "keep up with the general currents of political thought." Kitty Carroll, a Walsh junior, came as the resutl of the impression Kennedy made on her last Friday. Others came to see Eunice Shriver, "a great campaigner" ac­cording to Fr. Hesburgh who intorduced the 
Shrivers,  and  "because  it's  a  class  
requirement."  
Shriver entered  to  the strains of  the  N.D.  

Victory March w~ich was drowned out by ap­

FRIDAY THE 13th / AT ' THE ALUMNI CLUB 

f ~ Happy hour 4 -5:~0 15' Beers \\I' ' .'..•C· • ... '. Weird t~ings will be happening during the nigt4t 
(Anyone wearing All-Black gets· 2 fte• drinks~ 
.'!',. ,··~·--" ~ .
.,Sat. open at 10-:00 am ~.:~i<~!:~ .-t:" ~ / BLOODY MARY SPECIAL 2 for .1 Join the a AA After-gam• Celebration



·f' ·, 
1 

I Open: Friday 4-?. 



Sat. 10 til game time 
/./ After game til 2 
·i+
f 

" ~ 
~ 
;r .. 
. ~ 
:.ol'"' 


'2314 South Bend Ave Phone 272-9171 
(continued on page 11) 

Henry takes the cake ... 
Dr. Henry cuts SMC's "bir­thday cake" as Kathleen 
Mulaney,  Dr.  Mary  Alice  
Cannon,  and  Dr.  Mark  
Bambanek look on.  


NOW SHOWING 
•
BOB HOPE in cAIICELMY AESERVAnDI 
from Warner Bros.. a Warner Communications company ~ 
FUN FOR r:::J ALL AGES ~ 
CALL 288-8480 
FOR TIMES 
AND DIRECTIONS 

MAIN CHURCH S.UNDAY MASSES 
5: 15 p.m. Sat. 
Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 

9:30 a.m. Sun. 
Fr. Eugene Montoya, C.S.C. 

10:45 a.m. Sun. 
Fr. Carl Dehne 

12: 15 p.m. Sun. 
Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 

"Evening Prayers" vespers at 4:30 p.m. Sunday. Con­
fessions are heard before each weekday Mass and from 7: oo _ 
7:30p.m. Mon. through Sat. 
South Bend's Newest 110¥2 N. Main 
'THE RED DOOR CLUB 
BEER * WINE * LIQUOR 
Come in before and after the game. Memberships Available 
A.NB 

OPEN 1 1 am to 3om 

1 
1 
, 
1 1 1 1 
,1 ~ , 
~ 
\ t:···.::. 






THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 

Rex Dominit 
N•ws: 283-1715 Editorials printed in The Obs•rver reflect the opinion of the writer, Editorial: 21l-8U1 on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the Business: 213-7.,1 individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
t.wlabarnhaldt 

Friday, October 13, 1972 


1rony

A time for • 
Yesterday was just loaded with irony. So much that it was virtually impossible to pick out the biggest one. First, Bob Kersten, the supreme non-manipulator, in a single swift move secured the adoption of the new student government constitution in a Senate that met with only nine members present. At the same time he secured the position of Student Body Vice-president for Dennis Etienne, the candidate that came in third in his own race for a seat on the Student Life Council. 
Secondly, since Etienne can now legally succeed Kersten (if one works from a loose definition of the word legal), the King has set up this same man who could not win election in SLC district five to become the next Student Body President. It is simply not true that Etienne does not have the same political ambitions that any one of the losing candidates in last February's SBP election had. What he is lacking is the very legitimacy that Kersten could claim--a vote of confidence from the student body. 
More to come 

But the irony doesn't end here. The constitution adopted last night makes several major changes in the structure of undergraduate student government. The biggest of these changes is that all the legislative powers of the Senate are transfered to the Board of Com­missioners. The exact form of this proposal was drafted in the Con­stitutional Revision Committee which was organized under the Barkett ad­ministration. 
That might be enough, but there's still much more. The first draft of the Board of Commissioners proposal was written in the summer of 1971 by the chairman of the Constitutional Revision Committee--­Ed Ellis. It's hard to picture anything more ironic than Kersten railroading a new constitution through tb.e Senate that was almost entirely written by the very people he has belittled throughout his entire campaign and tenure. It may well be the ultimate in egomania but it's not the ultimate irony. 
Now the Kersten administration would like the duly elected representative from SLC district five, Frank Devine, to resign his seat so that a woman can be elected to 
daa~W•b~~yj 

replace him. Devine has a better idea. If Kersten is really concerned about female representation on the SLC why doesn't he appoint a woman to fill one of Etienne's two seats. There really is no good reason why a man who was not even elected to the SLC once should now have two votes. 
Redeeming value 

Yesterday's performance should eliminate any doubt that the Kersten administration is playing the same game everybody else plays--politics. And the final measure of success in the game is still winning. 
Fortunately for the student body the new constitution represents a long overdue modernization of student government. As hard as it might be to admit, Kersten is the only person who could have possibly brought about this revision. Mike Marget was right---60 percent of the student body would never have passed the document. Two-thirds of the full senate would never have passed it either. The point is that the final method of passage, and the concomitant maneuvering, is no more or less legitimate than the long derailed poobahism. It is identical. 
It's time to inject just a small measure of public accountibility into the Kersten administration. As important as female representation is on the SLC, Devine should not be railroaded out of his seat. Kersten has two appointed seats on the SLC. As Acting Student Provost, Etienne held an appointed seat but was granted voting privileges by the SLC. As Student Body Vice-President, Etienne also holds an appointed position---he was picked by nine people to replace Ed Gray. 
There are two ways to secure female representation without permitting any further chicanery with appointed positions. If Kersten resigns to allow Etienne to become the SBP, the Board of Commissioners should elect a female Vice-President. If the King stays put, then the SLC should seat the winner of a special election in Badin and Walsh in the post formerly held by the "Student Provost." 
Now that Kersten has come into the ballpark someone should call his foul balls too. 
John Abowd 

It takes a while for freshmen to adjust to many facets of life at 
Notre. Da~e. Classes take usually a half semester to adjust to. A few 
weeks suffices for hall life. But student politics is something one 
never does understand. After four years of du Lac though I have 
been granted one ~nsight into student government, na~ely that I know 
that I know nothmg about student government. 
In order to bring the reader to a similar socratic state of wisdom I 
will present a brief orientation on past student politicians. Due to the 
spectral nature of the subject matter, this orientation will be 
presented as a series of portraits narrated in Rod Sterling fashion and 
called the Poobah Gallery. 
The Gallery 

Picture number one is of an aging philosopher-king, entitled 
McKenna_. Note well the unreal qualities of the ·f.igure and the eight 
students m the background, symbolizing massive student support. 
The story you will witness is frankly ludicrous, dealing with such 
profound questions as "Are gerbils racist?" or "Can Christian 
Community be attained through astral projection?". 
The only thing obvious about the face in picture number two is that 
the Poobah is black. The obvious is not so much the dark shades of the 
sketch, but that the Vice-President in the lower left corner holding the 
sign, "Gee, I'm progressive," won't let you forget it. Eve'rything else 
about the portr~it and the following story is very vague, though it is 
not half as trag1c as McKenna. Instead our portrait of Krashna will 
ask the questions, "Does a large majority mean that the students like 
me?" or "What's the Observer?". 
Portrait number three is a grotesque caricature of the Moustache 
that ate Cleveland. It concerns a political warlock who suffers 
political death, only to rise from his grave to haunt his killers. The 
following st?ry is a~_eerie tale ?f rev~nge and gives a new meaning to 
the term SmdelyWh1plashand 1s entitled Thrasher. In this macabre 
tale you will encounter weird little gremlins called senators, sum­
~oned by Thrasher to haunt his opponents, reducing to diabolical 
1mpotence. 
The Machine And The Flame 

Portrait number four is not of a man, but a machine named Barkett. 
The sty_le is ~ealistic, but franklyunimaginative,. and gets the impression 
that Ehot Richardson modelled for the portrait. The story to follow is 
of how a student body was threatened with death by boredom and 
~hould put you to sleep in four minutes flat. The story does ask two 
!mportant questions, "Did Mr. Stepan write a letter?" or "Which way 
IS the Harvard Law School?". 
Th_e reason w~y I am w~aring an asbestos suit is the strange 
m~chum of portrait number f1ve. The picture, is, as you see, composed 
of ther~onuclear flames and vaporized tunston held together by a 
force f1eld. The portrait is of an existential flame swallower who 
deci~es to run for student government as a clown. The story has a 
trag1c e_nd, e~~n t~ough the entire. circus tries to rescue him. If logic 
and behevab1hty 1s what you des1re from the plot, switch channels. 
This tale of the bizarre and grotesque is titled, "Mooney" and asks the 
questions "Did we take Morrissey" or "Why isn't Barkett a 
prankster?" 

Our final portrait is another king, but instead of being the Platonic 
philo~pher king, he is t~e Aristotelean Prime Mover. The music you 
~ear m the background 1s you know what. The plot appears promising 
mcluding such hideous things as an H-Man, rabble, oligarchy and a 
SBVP whf\ can transform herself into a cat. 
No Tragic Ending 

But frankly fellow lf!vers of the arcane and insane, none of the Lovecraft style happemngs have come about. Despite all the ill omens offered early in the story, nothing has happened. The Trustees have ~ot transformed into Nazi Werewolves, seeking to destroy the life, liberty and pur~uit of skirt and liquor by the student body. The Astrologers predicted that dawn patrol and midnight Mass have not been rei~stituted. Nor has $20,000 suddenly been converted to smoke by ~n evil spell. The student body has not been suddenly thrust into a soc1al and cultural grave. Student organizations are not suffering a hideous death. . I mean,l~ke we tried ~o wri~e a normal macabre, offbeat plot, but we JUSt couldn t get a trag1c endmg. I mean all our writers assumed that a_ student government without rhetoric, divorced from self­rrghteousness, was doomed to a tragic ending. We a11 assumed that a SBP who could laugh at himself would be doomed to at least the Hind_enburg, if not the Titanic. But damn him, the King has not only survtved, but he's prospering. 
An SBP who doesn't fight windmills, succeeding? A student government which doesn't wis~ to mobilize student support, working? Even my warped perverted mmd, could not have conceived of such a 
paradox. 

r--------------------r---------------~-

,!}AlPb)E!U, t1AY8c 
MOHHf
115. C/JUCVS, 

ONCETHflT 
Sill/?
I Tl1t.!re.O 
.r THIN/\

wll5 mvc; 
SOifeTf/ING1 TOHOMMY 
~5. Cfi()CtJS, IT's TIME
YDV DID, 
/J90VT 11 (A)HAT?

l /f/!.S HORNING :£ WfiNT FOR MILK
JeNNY? 
''P£0C5TI1l" I 
TO 8£" II _t:JNO 6000!5..
: ,48WT lt.JHflT 
I 
THAT .r 
sex I


E You row vs 
ll/\£0 lleJ2Y I MUCH' 


1arry lrudeau 
IUIHIIIIIUIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIII 
Issue Staff 
Nite Editor: Joe Abell Ass't Nite Editor: Bill Brink Layout: Marlene Zloza, Maria Gallagher Day Editor: Ken Kampman Pictures: Jerome Phillips Nite Controller: JW 

-·-·-.:. 

Friday, October 13, 1972 


the new season begins 
nd-smc theater 
The ND-SMC Theatre opened Its 1972-73 season last weekend with James Goldman's witty, The Lion In Winter . . . opened perhaps a week or two too soon. 
Despite the brilliant comic approach of Director Charles Ballinger, the production all too often appears a little ragged around the edges. An inconsistency in both acting quality and in costumes makes a theatergoer wonder if perhaps Lion In Winter should have played two weeks in Osceola before coming to the O'Laughlin stage. 
Sendelbach Brilliant 

The Lion In Winter has some tremendous moments particularly the acerbic verbal duels between Henry II and his estranged wife Eleanor of Aquataine. Susan Sen­
delb~ch as the queen was brilliant in her debut on the ND-SMC stage. Sendelbach not only carried herself with the outward flourishes of an exiled queen, but managed to afford the audience glimpses of an inner woman torn between her love of her former husband and her own ambitions for her sons. The newcomer to the theater exhibited an excellent comic timing par­ticularly when playing against Mark Swiney's King Henry. 
Mark Swiney offered a many faceted, multi-leveledKing Henry. Swiney, who has had many character parts with the ND-SMC troupe has turned in his most effective performance as the aging king attempting to keep his realm from being carved apart by his ambitious sons. Henry is a very complicated man; loving his wife, yet imprisoning her; willing to talk of murder, unable to perform it; able to make war on 
France treating France's king as a son. 
Swin~y's soliloquy at the end of Act One is one of the most moving moments presented by the ND-SMC Theatre in memory. Swiney is able to bridge the gap between the comedy and the tragedy in the character of the king. 
Henry's Sons Some of the inconsistencies of the show appear in the uneven acting of two .of Henry's sons, Richard and John. Chff Fetters simply overplayed the young, simpleminded John. While Henry and Eleanor were offered as real people, John was played as a caricature... a running gag more than a person. Fetters' John suffered in the single level interpretation. AI Fierro's Richard the Lionheart suf­fered much the same fate as Fetters' John. The surly one-dimensional Richard moped and muttered around the stage like a twelfth century Ben Casey around a m~ieval operating theater. There was simply something lacking in Fierro's Richard, the character had yet to bloom from the author's lines. Henry's scheming middle son, Geoffrey was a welcome relief. Mark Genero ... who may well have been ap­pearing in ND-8MC roles when So~in was president . ·.. gave depth to the bnghtest, but forgotten son. The theater veteran conveyed a sense of humanity, of ten­derness and lonliness to what might have been off~red as little more than an historical Mordred. Genero's Geoffrey had a per­sonality, a depth, not just l~es: The Lion In Winter's cast IS filled out by Christoper Ceraso as the young, crafty French king and Susan Maher as Henry's 


the guess who opens the weekend 
I. franklin devine 
beautiful mistress, Alais. 
Costumes Disappointing The uneven quality of the production was never so obvious as in the costumes. The costumes ranged from breathtakingly beautiful to horrid. Faith Adams made her debut as costume designer for the ND-SMC Theatre with this production. When the new costume designer is good, she is very, very good, but when she is bad, she hurts the characters. Some of the costumes for Lion are really quite memorable, particularly King Henry's attire and a beautiful black and white cape worn by Alais. Unfortunately Richard's naugahyde and mink looked ludicrous from a third-row seat, and Geoffrey's checkerboard tunic made him look like a refugee from a travelling com­pany of Alice In Wonderland The obvious inconsistencies in the quality of the costumes brings up the question again of whether the prOduction was ready for the audience. The unevenness of the costuming was terribly apparent throughout the performance. 
Stairs and Platforms in Set 
Although Christopher Egan's lighting was consistently effective, even Richard Bergman's set showed occasional signs of haste, something unusual for perfectionist Bergman. The set, a series of platforms and stairways was very effective, even stun­ning. Yet some of the painted flats, par­ticularly two used in a scene in the king's bedroom simply weren't up to Bergman's usual standards. The poorly executed falcon silouettes on those flats are another 

the observer 
7 


example of the inconsistencies of this production of The Lion In Winter. As has been the case in the past, Charles Ballinger's direction was tight, his blocking 
delightful  to  watch.  Movement  in  a  
Ballinger  play  becomes  as  integral  as  
words.  Geoffrey's  movement  is  as  
revealing  of  his  character  in  Lion  as  

·Elvira's movement was of her personality 
in Ballinger's production of Blithe Spirit last 
season. 
Ballinger's direction emphasizes the laughter of the most tragic of cir­cumstances, the joyful challenge of rivalry. One wonders though, what Ballinger, his cast and his crew might have done given another two weeks. 
The Lion In Winter is, for the most part, a joy, it continues through Saturday night at O'Laughlin. Curtain time is 8:30 


Western Canada is a beautiful place. It's also very strange and isolated, which makes it a tough place. Out of this beauty and isolation came a rock n'roll band, THE GUESS WHO. And one thing is certain-it takes guts to work the west. 
Wheatfield Soul is the label applied to their music, and whether or not it is ap­plicable is unimportant. They come fro~ Winnipeg, Toronto, and Saskatoon and paid their dues for five years, five albums, and ninteen singles, none of which did anything at all. 
THE GUESS WHO, when they arrived in 1969 ("These Eyes"), were one of a new breed. They were a self-sufficient band, featuring straight middle-of the-road rock, most of which was written by keyboards man Burton Cummings and gutarist Randy Bachman. They meandered their way through three moderately successful albums that were moderately good; they had a couple of hits ("Laughing", "No Time"), and they gathered a pretty decent following. 
And then it happened. The new album was called, "SHARE THE LAND," and it was good and still is the best work they've done. It was The Guess Who's first real solid work, a natural growth on record. There were a couple of failures­"Moan For You, Joe" and Cummings' nine minute flute freakout I'm a brilliant­songwritertune "Three More Days." But in between was some great rock-like "Bus Rider," "Hand Me Down World," "Share The Land," and the real beauty of the album, "Hang On To Your Life," which opens with an exploding guitar lick and never let up. SHARE THE LAND, even two years later, still has the sound of a great rock album. Another tale in the rock world of new directions has begun. When THE GUESS 

kevin dockre/1 
WHO started doing old-time beebop rock n'roll, I thought it was just a kick. SO LONG, BANNATYNE was a beebop album, and it was good, but hard to get used to. ROCKIN' followed closely on its heels and it was damn good. Nothing more needs be said. 
While all these beebop records were comin out, THE GU&SS WHO were un­dergoing a curious change. They have really become a beebop band, and their latest album, LIVE AT THE PARAMOUNT, proves it conclusively. They're doing new arrangements of "New Mother Nature" and "Alber Flasher" and suprisingly, it works. Seeing them this summer, and hearing their new album is like finding an old friend and discovering that your friendship is all that much better for having been apart. 
THE GUESS WHO are not superior musicians, but they are superb rock n' roll players. Cumming is a fine ragtime­honkytonk pianist and one of the five best lead singers in rock, with Roger Daltry, Cory Wells of THREE DOG NIGHT, Rod Stewart and Jagger. Guitarists Winter and Don McDougal work together flawlessly, and bassist Jim Kale and drummer Garry Peterson provide what every good rock band has to have -a tight, solid rhythm foundation. 
One thing that's nice about long-lived top 
40 groups like THE GUESS WHO is that they 
certainly learn how not to mess up, on 
record or on stage. No forty-minute guitar 
freakouts, no convoluted masterpieces-just 
good rock; believe it or not, come of the best 
contemporary rock you'll find ... so don't 
miss them in concert. You won't be 
dissappointed. 
Someday THE GUESS WHO will disband 
and won't be missed by many. They're the 
kind of group that comes and goes much too 
quickly, but that's a great deal better than 
too slow. 


Recardinrjs heep. disappoints jDSephabell 
A friend of mine once told me that when he felt depressed or homesick, he went back to his room and played something "loud and raunchy." He said he didn't really care what it was, so long as it wasn't something that would reinforce his mood. 
Uriah Heep is the kind of group my friend would find excellent for this purpose. Theirs is the James Gang "made loud to be played loud" kind of music that further fits the bill by being much raunchier than James Gang. In their history, they've put out a few notable works: "Salisbury," a ten-twelve minute excursion into early 1969 acid rock, "I Wanna Be Free," a shortie from Look At Yourself, and "July Morning," another one from Yourself, only a more-or-less extention of "I Wanna Be Free,." 
And now, Demons and Wizards, a new one with a gaudy, "mystical" painting on the cover by the same guy that does all the Yes album covers. Too bad the contents can't be up to Yes standards. 
Demons and Wizards is a disappointment, plain and simple. Such a highly-touted album should have been suspect in the first place, but it was a bigger disappointment to find it such a disappointment. Uriah Heep have been around quite a while now; you'd think they'd have learned something b~ now. Maybe it was the brief time they baa to record (they even tell you about it in the' liner notes), maybe it was the pressures of: writing while on tour, I don't know; but this is one the more shoddily packaged bunch of songs to come out this season. 
Take the lyrics, for instance. Whenever the music becomes vaguely interesting, they destroy any effect produced. One of the musically superior songs, a song that tries to produce the same effect as the jacket painting, suddenly pops up with this gem: 
He told me tales and he drank my wine Me and my magic man kinda feeling fine. 
and later on, in a not-so-superior song:. 
We must keep them away Or pretty soon we'll pay. 
Getting lines to rhyme is great, but c'mon now-even bad poets know when they're overdoing it. 
And the song lengths-talk about a group m·anager desperate to have a hit single:! Out of eight songs, maybe two would have to be hacked up to fit AM schedules. At a time when long, comparatively (to earlier years of rock) "epic" cuts are being made, to come up with an album of two and three­minute songs is· almost laughable. 


But they did succeed in one respect, though-"Easy Livin" has managed to garner a few bucks from AM play, more than any other Heep single. A curiously insignificant song wherein bad writing is glossed over by a lot of organ and falsetto background\vocals, one wond.ers how. it even sold to the record company \executives 
The best cuts of the album by far are what might be called the "title tracks." "The Wizard", despite its trite lyrics, comes across quite well, the organ providing a nice background to pleasant acoustic .guitar­work. "Rainbow Demon" is interesting in that it marks a departure from standard Heep fare, and hints a certain personality that doesn't appear in most Heep works. It sets the stage for a side of Heep that never materializes, but nevertheless makes the song itself quite good. 
"Paradise-The Spell" is the most 

prekntious song of the lot. While a little 
catchy in places, the song makes the 
misake of all mistakes-that of trying to 
ma.<e a long song from two small ones. 
There's not even an attempt to blend the 
songs-one merely fades in when the other 
fac'..es out. 
fhe rest aren't even worth discussing, 
since they all sound the same-bad. 
The cover's another story. Sorry all you 
guys at the packaging plant-you can't hide 
a bad album inside a /Weird jacket. But 

-
maybe they knew what was going inside and 
tried to hide it well: it took me five minutes 
to figure out how to get the record out of it. 
All in all, one big disappointment from a 
group who's had time to develope something 
better. 

-----~­
-·~··----­
Friday, October 13, 1972
the observer
8 



Hilard cites autos vs environment 
by Mike O'Hare Environmental Protection Agency, require vironmental Protection Agency. Both Dr. Observer Staff Reporter ninety percent of all these pollutants to be McGarland and Miss Cekanski -cited eliminated by 1975. He warned that the cost automobile emissions as contributing to The 1975 model car you may be planning of such control, if it could be achieved at all, sixty percent of air pollution. Miss Cekanski to buy after graduation will cost you $300 would add about $300 to the cost of the 1975 commended G.M. on spending $40 million on more due to federally required pollution cars. He questioned whether "the small pollution control research and then added controls. additional pollution control was worth the that this amounted to one-sixth of G.M.'s 
According to Frazer Hilard, assistant resulting increased consumer cost." advertising budget. 
general counsel for General Motors, the Describing the complexity of the technical standards set by the 1970 Clean Air Act will problems in further reducing automobile necessitate this price increase. Sponsored pollution, the counselor stated, "If General by the Law School Advisory Council, Mr. Motors doesn't meet the federal pollution Hilard's speech "The Automobile and the standards by 1975, it won't be because we 
Environment," attempted a "non-emotional didn't try." objective appraisal of the question of In an effort to meet these federal stan­automobiles as a pollutant." dards G.M. is experimenting with several 
Hilard cited the first effort to control car new devices. Among these is a new car­Word to exhaust emissions as coming in the 1960's, buretor that will result in more efficient and with the development of the PCV Positive rapid combustion. Researchers are also the wise Carburetor Valve. He pointed to the working with two types of catalytic con­passage of the 1970 Clean Air Act as forcing verters, an oxidizing catalyst and a Hilard: better start saving car manufacturers to reduce emissions in reducing catalyst, in order to reduce your money--all the new their exhaust systems. pollution. anti-pollution devices will 
Compared to 1960 model cars with no In concluding his address, Mr. Hilard jack up car prices almost pollution controls, Hilard cited the ef­wanted to destroy what he termed "The 300 bucks. 
ficiency of the 1973 models in reducing Washington myth; the belief that the 
exhaust emissions of hydrocarbons by regulators are the captive of the regulated." eighty percent, carbon monoxide by sixty­He termed this accusation "as pure nine percent and nitrogen oxide by thirty­unadulterated baloney." eight percent. The additional cost involved A panel discussion followed the speech, in reducing emissions to this extent which featured Dr. Andrew McFarland, amounted to $40. Professor of Chemical Engineering, and 
Hilard then added that the provisions of Miss Kathleen Cekanski, a third year law the 1970 Clean Air Act, as enforced by the student and summer intern with the En-
Response 'poor' 

SMC ignores United Way 
by Beth Wille were asked this week to distribute apparently many of those who did 
Obs~rvt>r Staff Reporter flyers and a letter from Brophy receive it ignored it. 
that explained how the money "I realize that many of the girls 
Saint Mary's forty dollar received by United Way is given to at St. Mary's just don't have the response to this year's United Way such causes as day care centers, time to volunteer for area social campaign was termed "poor" by United Services Organization, causes and I felt that perhaps senior Julaine Brophy, who is Mental Health Association, and contributing some money would heading the student campaign on other area social service agencies. give them the opportunity to do campus. A total of thirty groups receive their part." said Brophy. 
Thus far only forty dollars has funds from United Way. Brophy also said that students been collected: Lemans Hall $37, Many students never received should contribute since they use so Regina Hall $2, Holy Cross $1. the information because of many of the St. Joseph County 
Resident Assistants in the halls overload duties on R.A.'s and resources such as voter 
registration materials that were 
recently used on campus. 
There is one week left for St.

Rally, hot dog stand 
Mary's students to contribute to the drive by either calling Julaine Brophy 4722 or by contacting her in

are planned by YVP 
room 422 Lemans. 


GOOD AFTERNOON 

SHULA'S 
Celebrate early for NO's win over Pittsburgh 

Do it with two great bands, dancing, bar, whatever Start the weekend off right 
Can't make it? At least be in good 

shape to watch it on T. V. Now you know ~te C!u~ where you're at 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 


A rally was held by the Young Voters for the President last Tuesday evening at the Republican headquarters in downtown South Bend. 
Young people from South Bend high schools, I.U.S.B., Notre Dame and St. Mary's College came together to celebrate their support of President Nixon and to recruit more workers for the campaign. A band donated its music while refreshments were served and a raffle held. 
Andy Nickle, chairman of the Young Voters for the President in St. Joseph County read a letter from President Nixon to the young people of the county. In the letter the President expressed his gratitude fdr the efforts of .young campaigners. 
Nickle stated that "the outlook of the campaigning is very favorable in St. Joseph County as it is throughout the country," but he also warned against complacency. Nickle also announced another rally to be held this Saturday at 
11:00 a.m. at the Republican headquarters, 103 N. Michigan Ave., South Bend. 
Bruce Callner, Co-chairman of the Y.V.P. chapter at Notre Dame announced a hot dog sale in front of the Law building at N.D. before this Saturday's football game. Callner also invited N.D.-8.M.C. Nixon supporters to attend the 
Y.V.P. meeting on Tuesday, at 
7:30 p.m., in the ballroom of the LaFortune center. 

ZAGRANS' ZINEMA WEST 

Presents 

"EL ·CIQ'' 
Staring .. Sophia lor~n Charelton Heston 
-


Fri. Oct. 13 &,·sat. r.t. 14 /' at 7 '& 10 -; 
':·

come to "america" In the bMem nt of Fle~r l admission only $1."' 
I 
•
\ 



STEPHEN STILLS 
ri\ti.11~~1 
Oct. 27 at 8:30 in the ACC FIRST TICKET SALE TODAY 
from 3-5 in the Student Union Ticket Office (third floor of LaFortune) and at the ACC Ticket Office (9-5) 
Free MANASSAS bumper sticker to each 
person buying tickets. 

·:: :1

at 8:30 =:· THE GUESS WHO 
I 
. I 

Remaining tickets -·on sale at theI ACC Ticket Office: today (9-5 ), tomorrow (9·1) and after the game up until showtlme. 

I, T 
•I 
Friday, October 13, 1972 the observer 9 
l 
-
For many Americans, the crucial issue in the coming election is endingthe war in Vietnam. 
This is the third in a series of ads published by Peace Alert USA in newspapers from coast to coast to permit hundreds of thousands of Americans to vote on the single question: '"Should Congress end the war by cuttingoff the funds?" 
Your peace votes have had their effect in Congress. We have not yet won but we have made clear headway. For the first time in history, the U.S. Senate voted to cut off funds for the war. (July 24) 
For the first time in history, the House Foreign Affairs Committee reported out an end-the-war amendment. (July 26) Other recent votes in Congress have shown growing strength for peace. 
It is important now to make sure the candidates you vote for in November are pledged to peace in Vietnam. Write or visit your Congressman. Write or visit your candidates, both national and state. Make sure they are right on the war. 
The National Peace Poll and other actions of Peace Alert USA are working to turn the tide. We ask again for your vote and your help to raise the money needed to get these ads into local newspapers. 
Send your contribution to Peace Alert USA to keep this current effort going. And make sure the candiaates you vote for in November are pledged to peace in Vietnam. 
r.............. , r··--------~~--,
E CE POLL I Peace Alert USA ·. · NO
1 NATIONAL P A I 233 Massachusetts Ave. NE II 1 Washington, DC 20002 1
I Should Congress bring the war to an end 1 · . _; ·by cutting off the funds'! I I Enclosed is my contribution of S II · YES 0 : -t ' NO 0 I 1 Please make checks payable to~Peace ~ert USA'' I 

N_AM.E__ ..... ---. .. --·-I I NAME I
............ , ,.,. ..:. •• :· : -~ •,~ J -~-•• :r .i' • . •
I

I ~~~~~~~-~ N~~ .. ~--~-· ·..~ ' ·-----~..}_i:_ ------I I ADDRESS I 
I SEND THIS HALLOT TO:NAT;ONAL ...~EACE POLL I I CITY STATE ZIP I 
L 
N D L •
Box 1621. Washington. D.C. 2001.1 • 
This ad courtesy of.~dent~G~o~v~er~n_m~en~t~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
--------------· --------------· 
-~-------Se-n-.H-a-'--rold E. Hugh~s (D.-Iowa) Sen. Alan Cranston (D.-Calif.) Rep. Donald W. Riegle, Jr. (R.-Mich.) Rep. Paul N. McCloskey, Jr. (R.-Calif.) 
,.;i. National Co-Chairmen Peace Alert USA .,, .··~:
._________________________________-.______,"''
·~·t 
'· 
>., 


-
Friday, October 13, 1972
the observer
10 

GSU PARTY Refreshments and Dancing at Carroll Hall 7:30 pm Saturday Od. 14 $1 per person lAW STUDENTS WELCOME!  
Can Heronymous Merkin Forget Mercy Humppe and Find True Happiness? Find out OCTOBER 17 or 18 at the Engineering Aud. at 6:30.  
Tonite: Homecoming Extravaganza "People and Song" present Butch Ward and Donna Dixon Cindy Corsaro Randy Sarton and Dave Gray Chuck, Maria, Maureen, and Jim Alumni Hall Lounge Fridays 9-2 Admission 25 cents Free Refreshments  



Notre Dame chapter AAUP sponsors membership drive 
by Kim Kittrell Observer Staff Reporter 
A membership drive, the plans for the fall chapter meeting, faculty manual revisions, and the committee on women were the topics discussed at the American Association of University Professors Executive Committee meeting Wednesday. 
During the luncheon meeting, Professor Dennis Dugan, chair­man of the Economics Depart­ment, reported on the membership drive now in progress. 

-
Dugan heads the drive and pointed out that last year the total membership in the group was 275 professors. This year the organization has over 200 mem­bers, and hopes to reach over 300. 
The fall chapter meeting was 

McLean receives Legion of Merit 
One of the nation's highest awards, the Legion of Merit, was presented at the University of Notre Dame to Captain William McLean, U.S. Navy, for his con­tributions in deterring nuclear holocaust. 
Captain McLean is Professor of Naval Science and Commanding Officer of the NROTC unit at the University of Notre Dame. The presentation took place in Stepan Center at the university Thursday afternoon, October 12. The ward was presented by Father Theodore Hesburgh, president of the university, before the brigade of midshipmen and guests. 
The Legion of Merit is a U.S. Presidential award. It was earned by Capt. McLean for his distinguished and meritorious service in support of the recently completed Strategic Arms Negotiations between the United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 

Mishawaka Raquet Club 
to host ND, SMC students 
Tennis, anyone? Fr. Ned Reidy of Saint Mary's campus ministry is organizaing weekly excursions to the Mishawaka Raquet Club, for those of you who have had it with the short Regina courts or the potholes on the McCandless courts. 
Starting this Sunday night, four courts will be reserved for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students from 9:00p.m. to 10:00 p.m. Reidy has offered to reserve the courts for two hours if enough persons wish to use them. 
Cost for the excursions will be 75 cents per person, since there is a $16.00 per hour charge for court 

CAC 
The National Players in 
Aristophanes "THE BIRDS" 
1st. of Dance and Drama Series 
8 P.M. 
Oct. 17th Olaughlin 
ALL SEATS GENERAL ADMISSION $3.00 
PATRONS FREE -PATRON CARDS $7.00 
Advanced tickets on sale at C.A.C. Office 
Student Union Ticket Office-American 
National Bank and Branches­
Witmer-McNease Music -AI Smith's Records 
Pandora's and Jennifer's. 
rental. Transportation will be 
provided by Reidy, a Notre Dame student, and two Saint Mary's students with cars. 
-·•. 

Reidy mentioned the possibility of forming a tennis team from Saint Mary's, which would com­pete with surrounding colleges. He also hopes to offer tennis lessons with student instructors to both ND-SMC students and un­derprivileged children from the South Bend area on Friday nights and Saturday afternoons. 
Anyone wishing further in­formation about the program may contact Reidy at 5392. 
another primary topic. The organization agreed on the central them "Collective Bargaining in Higher Education" for this meeting which is open to all members of the Notre Dame 
faculty. 
Professor Paul A. Rathburn, president of the local chapter, gave the following reasons for the choice of the topic: "The purpose of the proposed meeting would be to disseminate information, to provide an opportunity for com­munity discussion of one of the most significant developments in the recent history of American higher education, and perhaps to quiet some fears, apprehensions, and misgivings." 
The date of the fall chapter meeting has not been finalized, but 
The Legion of Merit is given in recognition of outstanding service to the nation. It is second only the Distinguished Service award for non-combat service. 
Capt. McLean earned the Legion of Merit as a full-time member of the U.S. delegation to the U.S.­Soviet Strategic Arms Limitation Talks (SALTl. 
He was a senior military and the senior Naval member of the U.S. delegation from July 1969 to July 1972, the entire period of the talks. He contributed significantly in his role as delegate and as chairman of a joint US-USSR committee to the consummation of both the Antiballistic Missile Treaty and Interim Offensive Agreement. 
The treaty and agreement were negotiated in Helsinki, Finland and Vienna, Austria by delegations of the U.S. and Soviet Russia. Both were signed in Moscow by President Richard Nixon and Secretary General Leonid the meeting will probably be held late in this semester, either in November or December. 
The final major order of business was a report by Chairperson Susan Taub, Assistant Professor of Psychology, on the plans of the Committee on the Status of Women in Academic Professions. 
Her Committee plans to conduct a survey to investigate the relative status of men and women faculty members at Notre Dame. 
The Executive Committee consists of Drs. John Lyon, Dennis Dugan, George Brinkley, Vincent DeSantis, William Liu, Fr. Francis Sullivan, Edward Vasta, Ed Trubac, Ray Brach, Charles Murdock, Gerald Jones, Dolores Tantoco, Susan Taub, and Tom Swartz. 
Brezhnev in May 1972. 
They were recently ratified and accepted by both nations. The results of the SALT negotiation are considered by many to constitute the most significant strategic arms limitation and deterrent to large scale, catastrophic warfare in history. 
This is the second time Capt. McLean has received the Legion of Merit. He previously received the award for his contributions in analyzing the capabilities of America's offensive and defensive weapons systems. This analysis was performed for then Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara. 
The presentation of this second award took place at a ceremony which also commemorated the 196th birthday of the U.S. Nayy. The birth of the Navy is considered to be October 13, 1776. On this date the Continental Congress ap­propriated funds for the con­struction of the first Naval ships. 
Capt. McLean is a native of Illinois and entered the Naval service in March 1943. He is a Naval Aviator and specialist in Naval weapons systems. 
HOUISr 
MON • TUES • THUR -Pll 
9 AN. .5r30 PM WfD • SAT 9 AN. 12 NOON COMPI.Er! $l'l!lcrACLI

RoGERS 
SERVICE ALL f"l"f ~'S 
P'IIESCitlPTIONS HONOif[

Optical 
e.lt 
289-7809

11001!11 ATWRl • OWNH 
NOTRE DAME-ST. MARYS THEATRE presents 
THE LION IN WINTER 
James Goldman's witty, intelligent comedy. O'Laughlin Auditorium St. Mary's Campus October6, 7,12,13,14at8:30p.m. Students $1.50 Phone Reservations 284-4176 (Season subscriptions still available . 5 plays $6.50) 

T & C O'Liquors salutes the 

FIGHTIN' IRISH 
We've got the spirit(s)! 

OPOV VODKA$380 ANTIQUE BOURBO 
RIVA VODKA$392 fifth 
CRAWFORD.  RON  
SCOTCH  QUERIDA  
RUM  
$4 1 1 fifth  

8-16oz ~ ctn. 
79 


Chess tournament champ 
by Pete McHugh Observer Staff Reporter 
Pierre Espanan last night became the Bobby Fischer of Notre Dame by winning the first Chess-Club-Observer Chess Tournament. 
Espanan finished the eight game tournament with a record of six wins and two draws. The other top finishers were Steve Pettit, second place; John Kelley, third; Professor Samuel Shapiro, fourth; and Mike Antolino, fifth. 
Going into his final match with Shapiro, Espanan needed only a tie for the championship. Shapiro agreed to a draw after their game was adjourned due to the professor's prior lecture com­mitment. 
When questioned on his victory considering the time he put into it, Espanan said, "I feel happy but NO chess champ Pierremostly relieved. Of course, it's congratualted by runners-up Johnworth the time if you win." 
Espanan felt the best opponent he faced was John Kelley. Kelley, "Sic transit gloria mundi." (so who tied Espanan in their only passes the glory of the world' meeting, lost but one match on a Professor Shapiro, who con­technicality to Pettit. ceivably could have won the 
Kelley had a decisive lead over tournament with a victory, was Pettit in their game, but neglected gracious considering the cir­to make the required number of cumstances of his final match. He moves before the time clock ex­was glad to see so many players pired. participating. 
However, Kelley was He stated, "I have never seen so philosophical about his loss saying, much interest in chess in my ten 
(continued from page 5) 
plause. His standing ovation lasted more than half a minute, and seemed to increase in in­
he said. 
tensity and volume. The applause that in­terrupted his speech was steady rather than rabid. His "warm cerebral speech" was well­received by a "warm but not fanatic" crowd, according to a McGovern supporter. on
Post-speech reachtions were enthusiastic. One crowd's 
obviously-ardent McGovern supporter could only say, "I think it's great." Another student especially noted Shriver's use of "historical stuff." Shriver made references to incidents dating back as far as 1952, before many mem­bers of the audience were born. Another ap­proved of Shriver's "hammering away" at the administration and urged that he continue doing so. A couple equated Shriver's own charisma with that of Kennedy, while another said that 
half hour.
Shriver's speech was political, while Kennedy had relied on his personal magnetism. One observer thought that Shriver should have spent more time on the Vietnam issue, though he 
<Flanner),
felt that the corruption "should be made known." A dissenter felt that the speech was too negative in only attacking the present situation, without offering a very tangible alternative. 
amendments,
Another student said she "was glad that he students today.
came." However, she added, a sore spot was the 
At
apparent block of students that left during the Etiennespeech. She felt that this was a planned act. 
Kersten's
A McGovern "bucket-passer" disagreed, saying that a number of students had said that 
effective
they would have to leave early, as a result of hierarchy.
class conflicts. The intent of the mass move was to minimize the disturbance. Since the students were carrying books, there seems to be grounds for this theory. 
The best sign of Shriver's reception, according 
Wall .dedication Saturday 


-------------~---------------------------:~ 
• 
Friday, October 13, 1972 
the observer 1 1 

... 
.... 
-~--~ --~---------­

• 
the observer Friday, October 13, 1972
12 

Unbeaten Irish host winless Pitt 
season with a knee injury, and bles, errors, and plain mental 
"REASON FOR SUCCESS? I OWE IT ALL TO HIM.//
by Vic Dorr 

center Tony Kuzneski was lost mistakes. 
The first five weeks of the 1972 "indefinitely" when he hurt his "I can't believe some of the college football season have not elbow. things that have happened to us," been good ones for the Pitt Pan­But despite the rash of dif­he continued, "but I'll tell you this thers. ficulties which plagued his team, our players have never quit. Their 
Coach Carl DePasqua's squad coach DePasqua is bringing Pitt hitting has been excellent, and began its season by losing into ND Stadium with a positive they've never given up. It's those respectably to Florida State (19-7) outlook. mistakes that's costing us games." 
and UCLA (38-28), but Pitt's for­"I don't want anyone to· say Irish coach John Murphy, who tunes have slipped steadily since we're going there to have the hell scouted the Panthers' effort then. There have been losses to Air kicked out of us," he said. against Tulane, agreed: "Pitt has Force and Northwestern, and last "Our squad continues to have an some great individual skills on 
Saturday the Panthers were excellent attitude, and they're their offensive team," he said. pounded by Tulane, 38-6. looking forward to this game. "Turnovers and returns have been costly to them but Pitt has the
Tomorrow, Pitt wil bring its 0-5 Mistakes have been killing us. 
We've got to overcome the fum-ability to move the football."
record into Notre Dame Stadium With halfback Cecconi sidelined, for a clash with the unbeaten, most of the Panthers' offensiveseventh-ranked Fighting Irish. On Basketball team skill lies with quarterback Johnpaper the game is a mismatch, but Hogan, a 6-0, 185 pound senior.
ND coach Ara Parseghian isn't Iists tryouts Hogan, through the first fiveviewing it as one. 
Tryouts for Notre Dame's games, has completed 37 of 63"Pitt is not enjoying the best 
varsity basketball team will be passes (59 percent) for 537 yardspossible season," he said, "but I held next Monday and Tuesday, and seven touchdowns. 
-
learned long ago that anything can October 16-17 in the main arena of The air game is built aroundhappen on a Saturday afternoon. 
the Athletic and Convocation Hogan and a pair of junior splitPitt is a better team than most · Center. ends, Todd Toerper (6-3, 198) and
people realize. (Quarterback 
Candidates should bring their Lance Wall (6-3, 191), and Pitt'sJohn> Hogan is completing about 
own equipment and use the student wishbone running game is manned 59 percent of his passes, and lockers in the ACC. by another trio of underclassmen.
they've got a good running back in Junior halfbacks Bill Englert (6-2,Stan Ostrowski. Their problem this Rally in Convo 19~) and s.ta.n Ostrowski (6-3, 195)season has been with their will be Jomed by sophomoredefense." 
. fullback Dave Janasek (6-2, 210),

The Panther defense has been Tonight's ra~y for the. Pitt-who became a regular after porous-it has allowed 163 points in sburgh game will be ~eld m the Cecconi was hurt. five games--but Pittsburgh has had Convocation Center mstead ?f Defensively, the Panthers are other woes besides. Turnovers and St~pan Center. (Stepan Cente~ Is young, inexperienced, and hurting. 

poor coverage on kick returns put bem~ !-l~ed for the Homecommg Ralph Cindrich, last year's first­Tomorrow, when they meet 
DePasqua's squad in a deep hole Prohibition Party.) . rate middle linebacker, has Notre Dame, the Panthers will 
against Tulane, and the Panthers Featur~ at t?,e 7:00 rally Will b~ graduated, and his replacement, meet one of their stiffest 
lost two offensive starters to in­challenges of the season. The Irish, 
Paul Hormng, The Golden Boy senior George Feher, injured his juries in last week's game with the of Notre Dame and G~een Bay knee against Air Force and will be who last week completed the Big Green Wave. Packers fame. Spea~mg along out for the season. Defensive end Ten portion of their schedule, are ~ith Hornungwill be M•keCreane)l John Moss suffered a knee injury
Lou Cecconi, the team's scoring at a clip of nearly thirty leading rusher, was lost for the Jim O'Malley, and Coach Yonto. against Florida State, and he too is points per game and are allowing 
fewer than five points per game. And two of NO's three victories
Jim DonaIdson·===================================================================================================== o~~~ i~~?eea;~fensive backfield 
have been shutouts.
do the Panthers boast experience and depth. Seniors Reggie Frye "The Michigan State game put a and Joe Herndon and juniors Ed burden on our defensive team,"
The Irish Eye 
Marstellar and Dan Rullo all said Parseghian, "and the 
return from the '71 team. statistics will indicate just how well we reacted. We got the shutout. We knew that we had to
~-!1!·~==..*=*======:.-=:::===================::::=========================:r.~=Footba/1 picks Lacrosse club 
have good defense to win that It's considered to be proper, when two teams of widely disparate ability game.
opens Sunday

are scheduled to meet, to say polite things about the underdog, such as, "Now, after three victories, I "They've got talent, but just haven't been able to put everything together Coach Rich O'Leary's lacrosse can give a more positive _... yet," or "Any team can beat another on a given day." That's nice. But, club will open their 1972-73 season assessment of our team. We've often, it's just pointless etiquette. this weekend when they take on been a solid team, and all aspects Unless Pittsburgh has engaged the services of a football magician of our game have been good. Our
Purdue. Game time for the contest 

during the past week, there is no way that the Panthers will beat Notre kicking and defense has been
will be 11:30 Sunday morning,

Dame tomorrow. As far as is known, Pitt coach Carl DePasqua is still beyond expectation, and the of-
behind Stepan Center. 

carrying a clip board and whistle, rather than a magic wand, and, under those circumstances, the Panthers just aren't a good enough football team to even rate as an upset threat. 
Farley, Morrissey clash in 
Only in Parseghian's first year at Notre Dame, 1964, did the Panthers give the Irish a battle, losing only 17-15. Since then, the closest score has been a 46-14 Notre Dame win in 1970. This year, Pitt comes into Notre key lnterhall grid battle Dame Stadium with an 0-5 record and its chances of stopping the losing streak seem nonexistent. Interhall football heads into its Lyons, meanwhile, has the ex­
Elsewhere on the collegiate scence, however, there are some evenly third week of action Sunday af­plosive Pat "The Redman" Tyrrell matched contests that ought to attract nationwide attention. Stanford ternoon, with a seven game slate making his first appearance. and Washington clash on the west coast, Oklahoma and Texas stage their on tap. The feature duel is between Tyrrell, star QB for the Badin yearly "mini-war" in Dallas, L.S.U. and Auburn tangle in a pair-up of a pair of League Two teams, 1972 Bombers in '71, will work at split Southeastern Conference powers and arch-rivals Michigan and Michigan runner-up Morrissey and sur­end and defensive back in this State meet in Ann Arbor. prising Farley. Both teams sport 2-week's contest. 
This is the way the Irish Eye sees the outcome of this weekend's top omarks on the season, and are tied college games: for first place in their division. 
NO cage, ice
Notre Dame over Pittsburgh-The Irish can win this one by as many 
Farley quarterback Carl
points as they like. 
Oberzut calls the ability of hisOhio State over Illinois---Just as they did a year ago, the Illini are team to control the ball the key to fix availablestarting the season with a losing streak. The Buckeyes should have little the game. "To beat Morrissey,"

trouble making Illinois 0-5. Season basketball and hockey
says Oberzut, "you can't let them

Stanford over Washington-Stanford made U.S.C. work hard last week tickets will be available at the
have the ball, or they'll run you

while the Huskies have beenscramblingall year. second floor ticket windows of the
into the ground." The sophomore

Nebraska over Missouri--The Tigers will just be hoping to keep ACC Monday and Tuesday bet­
from Chicago has thrown for two

everyone healthy for next Saturday's game with Notre Dame. Hoping for ween 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. 
touchdowns and run for another in a victory is. out of the question. 

Farley's wins over Cavanaugh and BasketballTulane over Miami <Fla. )--The Green Wave has been rolling over most 
Lyons. Single upperclassmen who failed of their opponents this fall. 
to apply last spring and freshmen... Alabama over Florida---The Gators shocked Florida State last weekend Elsewhere, defending champion who failed to apply during thebut the Crimson Tide will bring them back to reality in a hurry. Dillon gets a week off, as does summer may order season tickets
Southern Cal over California-The Trojans are pointing towards a League One contender Holy Cross. 
for $12. An ID card is required for 
battle of unbeatens on December 2nd. · At the ACC Auxiliary Field, Grace purchase.
Penn State over Army-Army's outclassed again. meets League Three favorite Married students may also order Oklahoma over Texas---Greg Pruitt and his gang are too good for the Keenan at 1, while Alumni faces basketball season tickets forOff-Campus at 2, and Sorin takesLonghorns. 
themselves and their spouses byNavy over Syracuse--The Midshipmen are the toughest they've been in on Pangborn-Fisher at 3. 
bringing an ID card and proof ofrecent years. 
Flanner takes on unbeaten marriage. Student tickets are $12L.S.U. over Auburn---Since the game's in Baton Rouge, the edge goes to Stanford behind Stepan Center at and tickets for wives or husbandsthe Bayou Bengals. 

1, to be followed by the Farley­are $15.

Air Force over BostonCollege-A victory in this one will boost the Morrissey duel. St. Joseph squares 
Falcon's record to s-o. Hockey
off against Zahm at 3, then another 

Mississippi over Georgia--The Rebels are out to avenge a trouncing by Single students may purchase a
League Two encounter between

the Bulldogs in 1971 and to rub out the memory of last weekend's loss to hockey season ticket (12 games)
Cavan~ugh and Lyons comes at 4. 

Auburn. for $12. Student seats are located 
fense has been solid, too. It's going 
to take a good team to beat us." 

It will take a good team to defeat 
the Irish this season, and the Pitt 
Panthers don't figure to be that 
team. The first five weeks of the 
1972 college football season have 
not been good ones for Pitt. The 
sixth week may be the worst yet. 
Sailors enter Cal. event 
Sailing teams from the United States Naval Academy, the University of Notre Dame and the University of Hawaii joined co-host Long Beach State U. today 
as entrants in intercollegiate 
sailing's most important annual 
match racing event, the Long 
Beach Douglas Cup Regatta Oct. 
27-28. 

Four more teams remain to be 
named for the seven-race series of 
team against team match races to 
be sailed outside Long Beach 
Harbor under the direction of Long 
Beach Yacht Club in cooperation 
with Alamitos Bay Fleet of the 
National Cal25 Assn., according to 
event chairman Tom Shadden of 
LBYC. 

Defending champion USC will 
bid for the right to retain the 
championship in an upcoming 
sailing which will pit the Trojans 
against UCLA, UC Irvine, Orange 
Coast College and several other 
contenders. A Pacific Northwest 
representative--expected to be 
ether the University of British 
Columbia of the University of 
Washington--will also be named 
and two more entrants are ex­
pected from the East Coast. 

The event is a collegiate version 
of LBYC's annual 10-skipper 
Congressional Cup match racing 
championship each March. 

Among former Congressional Cup 
champions is Scott Allan, recent 
U.S. Olympic yachtsman who is the Naval Academy sailing ad­visor. 
Fencers name two asst's. 
Ron Sollitto and Tim Taylor, 
leaders of last year's 19-2 fencing 
squad, will return as assistant 
coaches this year, according to 
coach Mike DeCicco. 

Sollitto set a season record last 
Texas Christian over Tulsa-The Horned Frogs will try and jump past A pair of familiar IH faces will at center ice in the south year with 43 wins, and he will Tulsa for their third win in four games. return in the day's final game. bleachers. assist coach DeCicco with a saber Upset of the week: Soph quarterback Greg Corgan, Married students may also squad hard hit by graduation. 
Michigan State over Michigan--If the Wolverines can't move on the who tossed three touchdown passes purchase hockey season tickets for Taylor, as last year's epee ground, they can't score. The Spartans looked tough against the run last in two games last season, will themselves and their spouses. captain, emerged as a true team week and with a game's experience Mark Niesen should be able to lead return to Cavanaugh's lineup to Notre Dame students may buy leader, and he will profit from that the M.S.U. offensive unit into the end zone. replace the injured Steve tickets for $12 and their spouse's position in his present coaching 
Lastweek: llof15: .733. Season'sPct.: 57of75: .760. DeCoursey. ticket will cost $15. capacity.
' 








