

Enjoy the warm while you can. The Winter Festival should have its cold. 
Vol. VI No. 78 
---~1 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ ~ 
I 
~ 
1 
I 
l ~ 
delivered with love to nd -smc Tuesday, February 15, 1972 
I 

Vows ND-SMC student gov't. merger 
FloydKezele opens SBP race 
by T.C. Treanor Observer Assistant Editor 
Vowing that "if there are to be any --"expansion of the already existing
substantive changes in the life of the Notre African Studies Program"Dame student, the students themselves --"the office of financial aid ... (to) up­
are going to have to take the initiative," date scholarships so as to keep pace with and pledging to "immediately merge the cost rises." Student Governments of Notre Dame and ---"full time operation of the Student 
St. Mary's after the election", SLC Towers Center" with "24-hour coffee in th~ representative and Vice-Chairman Floyd basement" and "split shifts so that the 
Kezele last night became this year's first Student Union offices will be open 2 hours announced candidate for Notre Dame's at night as well as in the afternoon." student body presidency. --"the pass-fail option for all freshman year courses." 
Runs with ]ones 
Major stand coming 
Kezete, a :w-year ota Jumor Uovernment Major from Gallup, New Mexico, will run In a question-and-answer session with Sophomore Milt Jones. Jones, the 
following his and Jones' announcement, Student Union's Associate Director, comes Kezele said that he would issue a "major from Atlanta. position paper" on the Student Life Council 
In a 45-minute press conference, held in during his campaign. According to Kezele, the Flanner Hall pit, Kezele charged that he will suggest that the SLC become a "student government is like a morgue," "University Forum" which would include and contended that "especially during the the Trustees and be composed of weighted 
past year, student opinion has only been committees designed to deal with issues in effective in blocking attempts to repeal student life, academic affairs, fihances, rights which have been granted in past and other areas. years." He also said that he would press for 
more money for the Hall Life Committee, Eight point plan which last year distributed $10,000.00 to the halls for their physical improvement. 
"If there is no pressure, no agitation for 
In SLC since 1970
movement," Kezele said, "the ad­ministration rightly or wrongly views this as an acceptance of the status quo." Milt Jones is Kezele's running mate Kezele became an SLC member in a· 
Jones followed Kezele's address by special election in November of 1970 when outlining an eight-point platform to an Observer editor Glen Corso resigned to audience of about fifty. In addition to the --"open-air movies and open-air con­take over his newspaper post. He won re· 
"immediate merger," Jones called for: certs in the spring as well as TGIF's election last year, defeating Joe Schlupp 
--"an exchange program between Notre <Friday concerts in the student center) 289-29. Dame and schools within the United States and Over-the-Hill dances." Kezele's campaign will be managed by as well as with schools in English-speaking ---pass-fail for "required courses ex­Carl Ellison, a Junior who currently 
nations such as Canada, Australia, and clusive of major courses beginning with directs Student Government's Recruit­England." sophomore year" ment Aid program. 


InPIRG to host Nader Thursday 
Ralph Nader, a crusader in the field of consumer protection, will speak in behalf of the Indiana Public Interest Research Group (lnPIRG) at a talk in Stephan Center on Thursday, February 17. The lecture will culminate a three day cam­paign by InPIRG to seek student support for the organization. · 
The 9:00p.m. speech will deal with the progress of student activism in fields varying from environmental problems and consumer affairs to occupational safety and minority group rights. 
Students will be admitted to the talk for 50 cents and general admission tickets, priced at $1.00, will be available to the public if space permits. 
InPIRG, an organization of Indiana students concerned about public policy and corporate power was the inspiration and brain-child of Ralph Nader. The group has been active on the Notre Dame campus since the fall of 1971. 

support for a plan to add a $3 assessment on next semester's tuition bills. Proceeds would be added to InPIRG receipts from other colleges and universities in the state. 
This would give the organization an 
annual sum of $200,000 to $300,000 to cover 
research expenses and to support a 
professional staff of physical and social 
scientists, attorneys, environmentalists, 
and faculty. 
The petition drive at St. Mary's College 
will begin February 20. 
In the event the petition drive succeeds, 
InPIRG plans to reimburse the accounting 
departments for the cost of tabulating the 
added assessment. In addition, meanswill 
be provided to refund money to students 
not wishing to participate in the program. 
Other state schools participating in 
InPIRG are Indiana State, University of 
Indiana, Purdue, Ball State, and DePaul. 
Indiana University at South Bend leaders 
say they will tart the program next year. 



Page 2 THE OBSERVER 
Tuesday, February 15, 1972 



Mardi Gras grosses $40.000 
by Mike O'Hare 

The total revenue taken in by Mardi Gras is about $40,000, according to chairman Greg Stepic. 
The $40,000 figure is the gross 
revenue  received  during  the  
week  long  event,  and  not  the  
profit.  From  this  total  the  

overhead expenses of Mardi Gras must be paid. 
Stepic pointed out that a "good chunk" of the $40,000 will go to paying such expenses as the rent for Stepan Center, security, and advertising. 
Any hopes for the possibility of the profits of the Richie Havens concert going to Mardi Gras were dashed last night. Mr. John Plouff, managing director of the ACC, said that "although the 
Hall-coex tickets••• 
Winter Festival coming soon 
A new campus-wide activity called the Winter Festival is planned for this Saturday, Feb. 
19. Organizers say that the ac­tivity will be like "a winter An Tostal." 
Centering around St. Mary's lake and Holy Cross Hall, the winter festival will include: crowning of the campus snow queen, skating and sledding on the lake, a live band, free hot chocolate, l!_nd a snow sculpture 
SBP endorses lnPIRG petition 
Student Body President John Barkett gave his "very strong personal endorsement" to the petitioning efforts of the Notre Dame chapter of INPIRG yesterday afternoon. The IN­PIRG group is attempting to solicit the signature of two-thirds of the Notre Dame population on petitions calling for· an increase in the student fee of 1 $3.00 per 
year. The proceeds will go to INPIRG and will be used to co­ordinate their efforts. 
Barkett hoped that all students would give "serious con­sideration" to the petitioning and he called it a "very worthwhile 
Student Financial Aid 
New and Renewals For 1972-1973 Application Deadline: May 1, 1972 Parents Confidential Statement To Be Filled by Aprill, 1972 Pick up forms now 
Office of Financial Aid Room 111 Administration Building 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except
vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's
College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The 
Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid.Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Wintc>r Consort performed opposite Richie Havens at the Mardi 
G1·as concc>rt. totals are incomplete, I would Stepic stated that at this time almost bet that there will be a he had no idea whether Mardi 
loss on the concert." 

Greg Stepic confirmed Mr. Plouff's opinion, saying that he heard the concert lost about $5,000. 
contest. Activities begin at 2:00 Saturday afternoon and end with the square dance at SMC's Angela Hall at 9:00. The dance is also free. 
"We felt that the entire campus needed something to put the life back in," said Tom Valenti, a 
N.D. sophomore, and one of the organizers of the festival. 
Valenti announced these plans late Monday night after a meeting in Holy Cross Hall. The 
project". "It opens options for student involvement in public 
interest work that  wouldn't  be  
there  otherwise.  It opens  an  
outlet  for  students  to  get  in­ 

volved, where their voices can be heard and they are given the proper financing." 
The whole concept of INPIRG is one that Barkett believes will soon spread to all 50 states. This is largely due to it's purpose and that fact that it is totally student run, Barkett feels. 
In a letter dated February 14, Barkett passed on to Father Thomas Blantz, his endorsement of the INPIRG idea and the news 
llall and Dates for C'o-t>x Tickets This Week 
Tuesday Feb. 15 Alumni, Zahm Wednesday, Feb. 16 Badin, Walsh Thursday, Feb. 17 Breen-Phillips, Stanford Friday, Feb. 18 Cavanaugh, Sorin Saturday, Feb. 19 Grace, St. Ed's Sunday, Feb. 20 Pangborn, Farley 
Gras was a financial success. He Residence. did not anticipate a large profit and expressed the hope that 
perhaps the Student Union would'------------------------" 
contribute some money. 
N.D. Fire Department will flood some of St. Mary's lake this week, to improve the skating surface. Aurora, the same band that played at the Mardi Gras, will play on the front steps of Holy Cross Hall. 
Plans are being made to offer prizes to the snow queen and the best snow sculptures. The festival is open to all N.D.-8.M.C. students, faculty, and ad­ministration. 
of the student Senate's unanimous approval of the INPIRG resolution. 
The Student Body President expressed his optimism that the petitioning will succeed and the INPIRG group will receive the 
1necessary signatures.  "I'll be  
highly  disappointed  if  the  
students  turn  down  this  op­ 
portuni ty."  

Cultural Arts Commission's 'Literary Program Presents: 




Saul Bellow 

Tuesday, Feb. 1 5 
8:00pm 
Stepan Cen·ter 
Admission so~ 
Off-campus moves must be OK'd by March 3 
In order to facilitate theselection of rooms for the 1972-73 academic year, it is imperative that you notify the University in the manner prescribed below of your desires to live off campus. 
Any student now living on campus who would like to live off campus next year must notify his rector by noon of March 3, 1972. The University regulations apply that all single students who will be under twenty-one years of age in September must have parental permission to move off campus. This letter must be sent directly to the Dean of Students' office by March 3, 1972. 
The above procedures are for information only and in no way in­dicate permission to move off campus. This will be announced with a regular bulletin concerning room selection. 
It should also be stated that students signing up for campus ac­commodations are doing so for the entire 1972-73 acaemic year. Room picks will be April 10·15. Additional informationconcerning these dates will be posted after March 3 by the Director of Student 
THANKS 
KEENAN HALL MARDI GRAS WORKERS 
1l~m~~~[~~[~u~~ 


MEDITATION 
AI TAUGHT IY 
MAHARISHI 
MAHESH 
YOGI 

TRANSCENDENTAl. MEDITATION IS A NATURAl SPONTANEOUS 
TECHNIQUE WHICH AllOWS EACH INDIVIDUAL TO EXPANO 
HIS MIND ANO IMPROIIE HIS liFE 
Introductory Lecture 
,NOTRE DAME 
Tuesday Night 8 p.m. Library Auditorium 


Tuesday, February 15, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 3 




world 
briefs 
"ND Magazine'' newly started 
The University of Notre Dame has combined two of its publications.intoa new magazine, "Notre Dame Magazine." 
The first issue of the new 72­
page, bimonthly publication is 
now in the mail to some 67,000 
alumni and friends of the 
University. Circulation is free. 
"Notre Dame Magazine" 
replaces the "Alumnus," for­
merly sent seven times yearly to 
50,000 alumni, arid "Insight: 
Notre Dame," which was mailed 
quarterly to alumni and friends. 
The new publication is edited by 
Timothy J. Hughes, former 
"Alumnus" editor, and Ronald R. the topic "Who Shall Live and Parent, associate director of Who Shall Die--And Who information services and former 
Decides?" 

Barkett telegraphs Whitcontb 
SHP John Barkt'tt urges In­
diaml Govt'rnor to support 
lowl'r lt'gal agt'. 
Saul Bellow will speak at Stepan Center 
Saul Bellow, internationally known novelist and professor of English at the University of Chicago, will speak at 8:30p.m. tonight in Stepan Center at the University of Notre Dame. The talk is sponsored by the Cultural Arts Commission and tickets, priced at 50 cents, will be available at the door. 
The winner of the National Book Award in 1954 for his "Adventures of Augie March," Bellow followed this with best­sellers "Herzog," "Mr. Sam­mler's Planet," and "Henderson, the Rain King." He was the recipient of an Institute of Arts and Letters Award in 1952 and 
studied under Guggenheim and Ford Foundation fellowships. 
Bellow has taught at University of Minnesota, New York University, Princeton and University of Puerto Rico. 
Washington---A further relaxation in trade policy toward China was announced Monday by the White House. The latest directive placed trade with China under the same restrictions as the Soviet Union and other Soviet Bloc nations. President Nixon also met with French writer Andre Malraux, whose knowledge of China dates to the 1920's. 
London---Thousands of British workers were suspended from their jobs as government restrictions on the use of electricity went into effect. As the national coal miners strike went into its 36th day, a court of inquiry charged with proposing a compromise said it would try to produce its report by Friday and political bitterness erupted in the House of Commons. 
Washington---Congressional supporters of constitutional amend­ments against the use of busing to achieve racial integration were told by President Nixon at a White House meeting that he would decide on a course of action to offset recent federal court decisions that require a great deal of busing after he returns from China on March 1. 
i Tight bookstore security 
stt'aling stops 
editor of "Insight." 
The cover story of the first issue is devoted to a discussion by Notre Dame faculty members of 
"On the behalf of the 6400 members of the student body of the University of Notre Dame," SBP John Barkett yesterday afternoon telegraphed Indiana Governor Edgar Whitcomb urging him to approve the legislation lowering the legal age in Indiana to 18 years old. 
In a letter written Monday, Barkett followed up on the telegram to Whitcomb by saying "I certainly hope you sign the legal age bill in the best interests of Indiana and particularly its young adults." 
The body of the letter contained Barkett's rationale for his sup­port of the 18-year old legislation. "Twenty-one has always been the 
In its effort to crack down on shoplifting, theBookstore, which employs both uniformed and plain-clothes security officers, has hired another officer for duty on the second floor, according to Fr. James Riehle, Dean of Students. 
Over seventy students have been apprehended since last Thanksgiving when the new officer started. Riehle credits this to the additioal officer. 
Last week, Riehle issued a bulletin changing the penalty for shoplifting from probation to suspension for the semester furing which the offense is committed. Althouhg five shoplifters were caught since the 
traditional age of maturity, but that is no longer true. The voting age is now eighteen and voters' registration drives for 18-21 registration have sprouted up 
across the country. One may be called into service at age 18! Barkett concluded with, "Surely, 
I can give other examples of men and women determining the direction of their country and 
dying for it. But need I?" 
The SBP stressed that all students should write or telegraph Governor Whitcomb and urge him to approve the legislation. Telegrams can be sent through Western Union (233­6101) and they can be billed to the student billing number. 
on campu-s today 
7:00---show, c.i.l.a. slide show, architecture auditorium. 8:00---lecture, saul bellow, stepan center 
7:30---st. ed's lounge, hall fellows night, terrence harris, minority affairs of notre dame. 
8:00---program, the burgundy street singers, o'laughlln auditorium. 
8: 00---meeting, transcendental meditation, library 
auditorium. 

bulletin was released, the Dean noted that no stealing has been reported since Thursday. 
As a consequence of the Bookstore's heightened security and the stiffening of shoplifting sanctions, Riehle said, "I hope the stealing stops." 

BUDWEISER AND THE SOCIAL COMMISSION 
PRESENT 
THE BURGUNDY STREET SINGERS 
IN CONCERT 
TONITE 
8:00 p.m. 
O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM 
FREE ADMISSION 
nd-smc 
€P 
10% OFF 

On any mechanical 
work and winterizing. 
For students and 
University Personnel 
Roseland Gulf 402 U.S. 31 North Across from Burger King 
Page 4 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, February 15, 1972 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-Chief, Glen s~ Corso Assistant EditorAssistant Editor 
All successful newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend 
Advertising Manager 

Business Manager anyoneor anything if they can help 
Jim· Jendryk it; if the iob is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Business: 283-7471 News: 283-1715 


Sign it! 
The Indiana Public Interest Reasearch Group is looking to tack $3 on to student tuition bills next year to finance their activities. The money will be used to fund a state wide group that will employ professionals to do research and lobby for projects deemed by the organization to be in the public interest. 
INPIRG is one of the best organizations to come along in quite a while. It's good becuase it will have access to a healthy supply of money, and money is the best way to effect change in this country. For too long the vested interests have steered legislation their way becuase they had enough cash to oil smooth organizations that pushed their point of view on legislatiors and in some cases bought them. 
The same vested interests lobbies have often won over recalcitrant representatives by bombarding them with data supporting their positions. The data has been dug out by well organized and well funded research teams, and used to cheat the public. 
There is no effective citizens lobby to counter the employees of the economic royalists. John Gardner, with Common Cause, and Ralph Nader, with· his people, have made a start, but it isn't enough. It isn't enough because the number of lobbyists representing the plutocrats from the pharmeceutical industry alone outnumber the people that work for Nader and Gardner. Also, Nader and Garner have directed their efforts on the national level. 
We badly need a countervailing power to the corporate lobbyists. They have enormous power and money at their disposal, and they use it, every day, to make sure their clients are being taken care of. Save for the aforementioned overworked organizations, no one is making sure that the common people are being taken care of. 
INPIRG's aim is to defend the rights and priveleges of the common citizens and make sure that they are not trampled in the rush for cor­porate gold. 
A miserly $3, on a bill that for most will be about $1600, is not too much to ask. It is not too much to ask to finally have the consumer actively represented in the law making councils of this state by a vigorous well armed group 
The Observer strongly urges students to sign the petition and allow the optional $3 INPIRG fee to be placed on the tuition bill. For us to do less would be worse than shameful, it would be criminal. 
Fr. Griff 
::=========================::::::::::::::===================================================================================:::==================================================================== 
Ash Wednesday 
In the ancient cities, at times of drought or loneliness and fear, while our President 
blight or pestilence, a band of gaunt, honey, publicly and prayerfully hopes that he will be semi-fanatical seers called prophets arose to on God's side, presumably in Peking as in wag chastising fingers in the face of kings and Washington. The Deity, typically, has not 
shamans, herdsmen and harlots, and to been heard from on His choice of sides; but lament the general condition of sinfulness God, as a Republican of the Silent Majority that brought the tribulations of God upon the and a kind of cosmic Bebe Rebozo, is the 
moral deserts of the land. ultimate image of shabbiness in America that 
Needed today, Ash Wednesday, 1972: one could make atheists of us all. gaunt, honey prophet to weep over the sins of Shabby times do shabby things to the spirit our modern wasteland...Our Eden gone to of man. seed; our Canaan of uprooted vineyards; our Shabby spirits sometime need to hear the 
land of milk and honey, turned sour or rancid; ancient call of the prophet, bidding them to our America of the lost dream, a skid row of assume the sackcloth and ashes of penance, the spirit. and to observe a fast that will cast out the 
These images are exaggerations, of course; demons of pestilence that sicken the land. exaggerations are common when fat cats That is why, in the Christian calendar, Ash speak as though they had the moral vision of Wednesday and the Season of Lent are an­gaunt, honey prophets. Our country is still nually observed. 
America the Beautiful, and we are the 1972 in a year when Ash Wednesday, with or Children of the Promise. But may I suggest without prophets, seems sorely needed. In the that it is also America the Shabby ... America, search for America as Paradise Regained, the gray of heart ... America the immaculate prophets may be expendable and sackcloth conception of hope where everyone stands and ashes may prove superfluous. What is around, paring his dirty finger­needed is the soul's personal commitment to nails ... America the dreaming, brooding justice and truth, love and mercy. Lent, ·country, in need of a swift kick in the ass? coming at the dark time of year just prior to 
Gaunt, honey prophets cannot speak the birth of life, is an ideal season for pleasantly to a land that fights endlessly and renewing commitment. interminably in a war that wounds the con­Souls in need of prophets and-or com­science of the generation that is called to bear mitment are authentically invited to a arms. On the stairways of tenements in Penitential Service on Ash Wednesday, Chicago and New York, children die from February 16, at 10:30 in the evening, in the 
overdoses of heroin, because the only escape Keenan-Stanford Chapel under the direction 
from a lost childhood is at the end of a of Frs. Don McNeill, Jim Buckley, and Bob hypodermic needle. Old folks die in rooms at Griffin. Sackcloth optional. Ashes free as a the top of the stairs from malnutrition and service of the management. 
The New Season Begins::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
Shoring Up 
;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: T.C.Treanor 
ABOUT THE SITUATION_______ 
When April first, traditionally Notre Dame's Patriot's Day, finally rolls around, a Magnifico yet to be determined will sit in the chair which all year held the body of John Barkett. In that chair, the New Magnifico will take nourishment, write letters and drink coffee until his eyes grow bleary. It is a highly elevated honor to do such, and this year, as in years past, many hungry aspirants will slobber for the job. It promises to be a highly entertaining show, but the vast majority of the campus will seeonly the finished product -the highly polished ex­terior. The real fun is behind the scenes, where hucksterism of all varieties abound. 
More than that: behind the scenes is a tableau of pathos, bathos, fears and tears, where candidates and their supporters come to grips with fundamental questions about student government and about themselves. 
The business of this column -quaintly entitled "The New Season Begins"-is to reveal precisely what machinations really go on behind the scenes. It is not a particularly glorious picture -never has been ­and it is designed to shake the belief that election time is that time when all good men come to the aid of du lac. But it is at the same time a fascinating picture, a trifle gory at times, with its own strange sense of almost poignant tragedy -for the losers, and sometimes for the winners, too. 
ABOUT THE AUTHOR 
Gentlemen, my credentials: 

I have probably lost more elections than any man exant on the Notre Dame campus. Most of the people running for SBP this year will lose. Hence, QED, I am eminently qualified to write about SBP candidates. 
I have also been connected with a couple of the glorious ventures myself -usually to the candidate's considerable embarassment. I've seen what's gone on. Honest to God, it would curl your stomach. 
Plus, I know most of the guys who are running. Really. They talk to me and everything. ABOUT THE ELECTION 
The Rt. Hon. Mr. Kezele is the first of at least five candidates who will declare themselves for the presidency. Two others should declare this week. Campaigning starts on the 23rd and the election will be on the 29th. If there's a runoff, as there was last year, it will be held on March the second. 
This week, aspirants will be gathering up endorsements and sup­port; they'11 be shoring up their organizations. Generally, the can­didates are after the endorsements of three large, amorphous bodies. They are: 
The Barkett people: It is difficult to tell precisely how popular John Barkett is with the student body. There has been no vociferous attack on Barkett -I hear-except a bitter letter sent by Alumni Senator Glenn Sorge to the Observer -but the feeling that he hasn't pressed hard enough for students is pretty widespread. Even his own Research and Development Commissioner, Ed Ellis, gave him a mild ride over the coals for his work with the SLC during the Parietal Hours Crisis. 
Nonetheless, there's no denying that Barkett had a terrific organization backing his SBP bid a year ago, and a word or two at the right moment might spring a large portion of that machine, fairly intact, for one of the candidates. 
The Moont>y people: Don Mooney almost beat Barkett last year, and, rightly or no, many of the people who have been disillusioned by Barkett have been increasingly sorry that they didn't vote for Mooney. Although Mooney's organization was not nearly as thorough as Barkett's, the effect of a mass of people walking back going back to the hall saying "I told you so and I'm telling you now" could be devastating, particularly in the event of a runoff. 
Tht' Hall President's Council: Since it appears as though no Hall President is running for SBP -although at least two will run for VP -a lot of the candidates think that they can corall a lot of the hall president's into their camp. The hall president is usually the hall's most respected figure, and it is interesting to note that in most of the halls Barkett lost in the first round, the president was for Mooney. 
There are two major uncertainties that the candidates face. One is the vague future of the merger-the two school's and the two student government's. This uncertainty, (hereto fore to be known as the Gaal principal l has left many candidates in the dark about who they should choose as running mates and-or St. Mary's hand-in-hand partners. 
The other uncertainty is the amendment Sorin Hall Senator Lefty 
Ruschman introduced to the Senate last Thursday. It allows students 
to vote for "none of the above." If "none of the above" collects 51 per 
cent of the vote or more, they hold another election. If "none of the 
above" wins again, the Senate meets in special disaster session. 
Rut more on this -and other grim stuff -later. 
THE OBSERVER. 
SHIP OF FOOLS Nite Editor:: Anthony Abowd Ed Ellis, TC Treanor, L. 
Ass't Nite Editors: Art Emmett Ballantine (from God 
"Sunshine" Esposito (resident knows where), Dan Barrett, 
weatherman), george lund Eric Kinkopf, Burrell, CB 
Layout: Nic Catrambone News Editor: Jerry Lutkus 
Headlines: Chris Sullivan .Art Editor: Mike fllurphy 
Headliner: Dandy Don Features Editor: us fools 
Biancamano Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 
Picture Screener: Bob Hughes 1. "No St. Mary's package Typists: Dan Rock, Diane plan" . Steve "KA" Chermside, Pat Kenney, 2. Nice lob Saturday nile, Art Debbie Gras, Joe Wilkowski 3. Tom & Steve say "hi, meg & Nile Controller: John Brady janet, came back some nile." Day Editor: Pat "Redman" 4. Hunter: you'll never do it Tyrrell (your opponent Phyllis) Early Watch: John Abowd 5. Dear Flashcard: Best of luck Seamen lrd Class: Glen Corso, this weekend (dollies in 346) 



Tuesday, February 15, 1972 THE· OBSERVER f:lage 5 
Letters to the editor 
-

'fridge fees 
<The following is an open letter by Ray DeCarlo---ed.) 
Dear students, On January 26, 1972, submitted a proposal to Brother 
K. Ryan, Asst. V.P. of Business Affairs. The proposal asked for a reduction of the $30.00 refrigerator fine to a $5.00 permit fee. It is now Feb. 18 and Brother 
K. Hyan has not extended to me, the simple Christian courtesy of an acknowledgement, either written or verbal. 
For four months prior to Jan 27, I talked with Brother about reducing the fine. At each of our six meetings, Brother explained the university's present and future positions. During a phone call he emphatically stated that the fine would not be reduced. Later that same week he asked me to put my requests in writing. I did so in the form of a proposal published in the Observer on Jan. 27, 1972. 
Since Brother has failed to respond, and because he threatened to "intercept" this information, I feel obliged to divulge the main points of a new university policy, written by Brother K. Ryan, Fr. Chambers and two other Administrators. The main points are: (1) all refrigerators whose capacity is over 3 cubic feet will be banned; 
(2) all hot plates, rotisseries, air conditioners and pop corn pop­pers will be banned; (3) the fine on small refrigerators will be increased to $40.00; and (4) televisions will be fined. 
A board of officers approved this plan about a month ago. Brother Ryan said this news will probably be published this summer or late this semester. Fr. Chambers told me that the policy will not be promulgated until he has received feedback from the hall presidents council. He also mentioned that dropping the fine, would mean a large increase in room and board. Let us do some arithmetic: With a $30.00 fine and 1,000 refrigerators on campus, the university collects $30,000. Now there are approximately 5,000 dormitory students. If the fine were drop­ped, student housing could only justify a $6.00 increase. Since they are running a $250,000 deficit, one can expect a minimum increase of $50.00 per student per year. 
Before writing such a plan the administrators conducted an investigation. From my talks with Brother K. Ryan the in­vestigation consisted of (1 ~ the fact that hall wiring and in some cases hall feedlines were overloaded; (2) hall rewiring costs upwards of $50,000 and new feed lines $10,000; (3) high wattage appliances (meaning all refrigerators, T.V.'s, hot plates etc.) were causing the overload; and (4) a study of the Mini-Kool refrigerator by the maintenance department. The maintenance dept. determined how often the refrigerator turned on and off. Th'at was the only test the maintenance dept. made. 
I also had the same refrigerator tested by a professional engineer, Associate Prof. A. J. Quigley, at Notre Dame's Electrical Engineering Dept. He concluded that the unit has " ... about one-fifth the power consumption of a typical small color T.V." and "Thirty or forty of these in a hall should have little more effect on power failure than a dozen more 100-watt light bulbs." A copy of Prof. Quigley's letter was given to Brother Ryan a month before the board of of­ficers approved his new plan. He ignored this letter. In point he continued to maintain that the Mini-Kool refrigerator (and all other refrigerators) caused power failure and overload. 
Let us do some more arith­matic: Assume the campus had 1000 small refrigs. They consume 42 watts of power on the average, causing a total comsumption of 42,000 watts. There are about 300 large, old bought-at-the­salvation-army type refrigerators on campus. They average about 250 watts of power, causing 75,000 watts of power consumption. Almost 35,000 more watts of power with three-tenths as many refrigerators. Perhaps this gives the university grounds to ban large boxes. However there is no evidence to support their $30.00 fine let alone an in­crease to $40.00 on any typical small refrigerator. 
I suggest that all concerned students express their opinion to their respective hall presidents and-or Fr. Chambers and Brother K. Ryan. 


JESUS 
RETREAT 
An evening of Mass, dinner, and prayer. Followed by a day of talks on what it means to be a Christian. 
From: 4:45 pm Friday, February 18. To: 9:00pm Saturday, February 19. 
Call 1507 (afternoons) 283-3529 (nights) 
Sponsored by True House 
Catholic Pentecostal Community 
Raymond DeCarlo 
Pres Alpha Phi Omega 
A national service fraternity 
open letter 

<An open letter to Gary Caruso--­ed.l 
Gary--­
So we are involved in '"little bureaucratic games," as you say. Ifanything, centralization is bureaucratic. Keeping the dining tickets in one place is no good, as far as I am concerned. 
I believe that the halls ought to handle the tix. They give the possibility---a readily accessible possibility---for the guys in the halls to eat at St. Mary's. This facilitates everyone--or at least most everyone---the chance to share in the co-ex and co-ed programs. As Ed said, creating exposure between the ND-SMC student bodies ought to be the main purpose of the program. I do not feel that you can deny this. Since to me this is the case, I cannot understand how you can think that the Student Union office offers this chance to the on­campus students. It is logical, and somewhat obvious, that the best way to "get to" the men is through the halls. This includes the co-ex dining. 
Statistics are not as important or impressive as availability is to me. I think that ;t.is too bad that we all seem to be hung up on them. Think about it Gary, while you are thinking about your own political and bureaucratic games. 
Peace--­
Marty Siemion 
309 St. Ed's 
K of Cads 

Editor: Congratulations are in order to the Knights of Columbus for having the courage to present candidly the simple realities of the abortion problem. In the face of that grim reality as it is so truthfully portrayed by the K of C, the logomachy in the letter in Tuesday's Observer signed by 23 people (whom I assume are relatively glad that they weren't aborted) is in fact as empty as it appears. It's rather sad to see how some people refusP. to 
acknowled e facts even they see them. We can only hope that the current fashion of fleeing from objective reality is a passing one. It is fortunate that there are some truths which can't be clouded by specious argument and weak analogy. It is un­fortunate, of course, that the particular truth in point is surrounded by such tragedy. 
For life, .J. L. Wilk 
BEST BANDS IN TOWN 
-Two Bands a night -Dancing 6 nights a week 
(closed Monday.) -No cover on Tues., Wed., Thurs. -Open till 2 a.m. 
"One stop entertainment center" 
....__ Cocktail Lounge Bowling Billiards 
S'"'"'• ._lVue C!u~ 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
616/683-4350 
ATTENTION Pre-Med Students Lecture Tonight Feb. 15 
7:30 p.m. 
Auditorium 
Life Science Building Don't Forget 


Action: If you want it 
Action for the environment Action for consumer protection Action for racism and sexism Action for iob safety Action for you 
If you don't do it -it won't get done Your help is needed Call 3827 or 6413 
Petitioners are going door to door •1n your dorm-Off campus-Sign up •1n the lnPIRG Office, The Huddle or the library 
Sign The Petition for 




lnPIRG 

Page 6 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, February 15, 1972 



Mooney: More ACC concerts 
By Milt Jones Insight Staff Writer 
According to -Don Mooney, Chairman of the Student Union Social Commission, the ACC should be made available for concerts more frequently. 
Mooney states that the Convo is only available for Student Union concerts seven dates during the year. This according to Mooney, is not fair to the Student Body. 
"They only allow us seven dates while they fill their calendar with all types of events that don't interest students," Mooney commented. 
In addition to the problem of limited dates for concerts, Mooney also cited a problem with profit splits between the Student Union and the ACC. 
The present arrangement is that the Student Union and the ACC split profits evenly until profits for the year reach 9,750 dollars. After this "ceiling" is reached, the Convo receives all profits on Student Union Con­certs. 
Observer Insight 
According to Mooney, Student Union Concerts have made ap­proximately $23,000 thus fat)ue to the ceiling however, students will receive $9,750 and the ACC will $13,250. In addition, the Convo will net all profits from the Richie Havens concert and the other two concerts scheduled. 
Mooney stated that if the split was 50 per cent of total profits with no ceiling, then the Student Union would be in a position to provide more spring activities for students. He mentioned ac­tivities such as "free movies, free concerts, and other activities." 
Two-Year pact 
John Plouff, Director of the ACC, stated that the ceiling price was agreed on two years ago by the Student Union. He stated that "this year is the first profits have been very high,"and that "in the other years there was no com­plaint about the ceiling." He also said that "the profit sharing idea works both ways, when there is a 
Black Awareness 
Festival and Davis 
to happen in April 
Assistant Director of Student Union Milt Jones yesterday announced the formulation of a Black Awareness Festival for the "first two or three weeks of April". 
The festival will feature Ron Dellums, the congressman from Berkeley. 
The Student Union is trying to secure Richard Hatcher, Barry Gordon, and Jesse Jackson to speak for the festival. Also 
during  the  festival,  the  Duke  
Ellington  Band  will  appear  in  
concert.  

Other events scheduled for the Festival include black student poetry, black art exhibitions, and a black film series. 
Jones also announced that the Student Union in conjugation with the Afro-American Society is bringing the sister of Angela Davis, Fanya Davis, to campus on February 26. 
net loss we absorb half of it." student concerts we can allow," There is no no loss cellar. Plouff stated. Plouff feels that seven dates is enough for student concerts 
Mooney said that "the profitbecause the Convo also must ceiling should be eliminated for promote its own events. 

Student Union affairs in the Convo because there is no ceiling"With athletic events tying up on the other events that come in." 

most of the weekends, we are Mooney also said that "it wouldlimited in the number of ac­seem that the Convo couldtivities we can stage," Plouff maximize profits by allowingadded. 
more student concerts." 

ACC Interests Mooney also said that, "the profits will be high on the Richie Havens concert but the students will not realize any of them. Thus 
"Since we must look out for our the ceiling really hurts the own interests as well as those of students." the students, we feel that seven dates is the maximum number of 

Save up to $3.00! Major label LP's! Top artists! 
Many, many selections in this special purchase. Classics included! Hundreds of records! Come early for best selection! 
Sale starts today! 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 


Get your favorites at Big Discounts! 

Discover the World on Your 
SEMESTER AT SEA 
Sails each September & February Combine accredited study with educational stops in Africa, Aus­tralasia and the Orient. Over 5000 students from 450 campuses have already experienced this interna­tional program. A wide range of financial aid is available. Write now for free catalog: WCA, Chapman College, Box CC12, Orange, Cal. 92666 

Tuesday, February 15, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 1 
Irish romp past Bowling Green 

by Jim Donaldson terwards, "We got the momentum Badenhop finally put the Falcons Sports Editor early, something we have not on the scoreboard after two and a done all season, and kept going half minutes of play but two free
The way things have gone for when we got cold." throws by Don Silinski and athe Notre Dame basketball team subsequent steal and layup by the
this season, every victory is a "Defensively, it was one of our "Slink" gave the Irish a 10-2thing to be cherished. Yet, last better games," Phelps continued. 
advantage and sent the Falconsnight's 92-65 win over Bowling "I think that the press bothered into a huddle at the sidelines toGreen in the ACC can't mean them and we just kept going after get organized.
much to the Irish. They were the them." better of a pair of mediocre ball Bowling Green's strategy
The Irish weren't plagued by

clubs. session didn't do the Falcons
their usual slow start last night 
much good as Notre DameThe only bright spots in the and jumped into a 6-0 lead just retained their momentum oncegame were Notre Dame's ability 1:09 after the opening tap on play resumed and opened up a 20­to win handily, despite a 34 baskets by Gary Novak, Willie 5 lead with 12:21 remaining on apercent shooting performance, Townsend and Tom O'Mara. 
pair of baskets by O'Mara andand the hustling defensive play of Bowling Green had trouble hoops by Silinski, Novak andthe Irish. 
bringing the ball up court against Willie Townsend. 
Notre Dame's aggressive 
the Irish press and, when they did 
The Irish finally slowed down apressing tactics unnerved the 

manage to cross the ten-second 
bit midway through the openingyoung Falcon quintet and line, had difficulties getting the and Falcons were
session theresulted in 24 Bowling Green 
ball in the hoop. Dalynn 
able to score six straight points turnovers. The Irish forced the and close the gap to 21-13 beforeFalcons to hurry their shots on a WCHA Silinski and John Egart hit from number of occasions and the the field to give Notre Dame a 12­visitors were able to connect on point bulge with 9:07 left in theonly 29 percent of their field goal 
Standings 

half.
attempts, offsetting Notre Dame's subpar offensive effort. After Bob Hotaling canned a
l>ts. W L Pts. GF Ga Left shot for the Falcons, the Irish ranThe game was a wide open, 
Wisconsin ............ 17 5 42 llO 66 16 

off eight straight points in a
run-and-shoot affair that saw the Denver .. . . .. . ......14 8 36 ll2 84 20 
Irish toss up 99 shots, sinking only Minn.· Duluth ........ 13 9 36 104 88 16 minute and a half, six of them by 
North Dakota ... .'.. 13 9 36 100 96 12 Chris "Hawk" Stevens, to boost34, while the Falcons fired 79 
Michigan State ....... 12 10 32 93 76 16 

their lead to 33-17.
times and could make but 23. It Michigan Tech ....... 10 10 28 96 89 12 Notre Dame.. .. .. .. .. 7 13 22 85 97 16
just wasn't top flight college ball. 
Michigan . .. .. .. .. 9 13 22 79 130 16 The Irish cooled off con­But, although basketball Colorado College .... 8 14 22 105 1~6 12 siderably after that spurt, goingMmnesota ........... 5 17 10 62 109 16
aesthetes may not have been scoreless for over four minutes, satisfied with Notre Dame's Weekend Resulls but Bowling Green was able to 
Wisconsin 6-5, Notre Dame 4-1

showing, the game still counted pick up only six points in that
Minn.·Duluth 7·2, North Dakota $-3 

as win number six and the second Denver 7·13, Colorado College 9-4 span. 
Michigan State 7·6, Minnesota 2·3

in a row for coach Digger Phelps' Michigan Tech Jl.S, Michigan J.4 Stevens dropped one in at 3:11squad in a season that has seen 14 to break the ice for the Irish , whoIrish defeats. The Falcons record Weekend Series Notre Dame at Denver outscored the Falcons 10-6 the
fell to 3-15. 
Colorado College at Minnesota rest of the way and took a 43-27
Wisconsin at Michigan

"We did the job with pressure," lead into the dressing room at
Michigan Tech at North Dakota a smiling Phelps remarked af-Minn.-Duluth at Michigan State halftime. 

Frosh drub Chitown club 
by Joe Paaaiatore 
The Irish freshmen basketball team engaged in what amounted to a game type scrimmage with the Chicago Hustlers last night and came away with a 113-67 victory that was anything but hard fought. 
The Hustlers were a team comprised of schoolteachers, some of whom had previously played college basketball. The team participates in three dif­ferent Chicago leagues and came into last night's contest with a 38­10 record. In an earlier encounter with DePaul's freshmen (recent victors over the Irish frosh), the Hustlers lost by only two points. 
Last night, however, the team was without three of their better players and, as a result, the game quickly evolved into a one-sided affair for the Irish. 
In the early going it appeared that the contest might be fairly close as Notre Dame held only a l6-l3lead at 13:36 of the first half. At this point, the Irish im­plemented a full court press, much to the chagrin of the 
Hustlers. The press brought Gary Brokaw <:IOl dropped in 16 points last night as the Irish frosh about a plethora of Hustler errors bt't't>zed to a 11:1-67 victory over the Chicago Hustlers. and Notre Dame lay-ups. The 
win, only by how much. Clay had nice passes. Gary Beaverson was score continued to mount against 18 points, Crotty totaled 17, unstoppable for a stretch late inChicago until, with 2:20 left in the Brokaw 16 and Bedford Bruno the game and scored sevenhalf, Notre Dame led 51-21. 
scored 13. None of the four played straight points for Notre Dame.
The Irish did not employ the more than twenty-five minutes in Beaverson's streak was com­press in the second half in an 
the game. prised mainly of tip-ins and heeffort to hold down the score. It eventually went on to score 10made little difference, however, Coach McLaughlin began points. as the Hustlers, who had only six substituting midway through the For the game, Notre Dame shot players present for the game, second half, but there was no let 55 percent, a percentage thatlooked tired throughout the up in sight for the Hustlers. 
would have given tougher op­
second half. Frank Allocco came in and ponents problems. The Hustlers,Gary Brokaw turned loose an personally rolled up the score meanwhile, were
occasional drive for the basket, with a run and gun exhibition that successful on 
only 36 percent of their fieldPete Crotty hit 7 of 8 shots from in could have gotten him reported to attempts.
close, Dwight Clay banged away the humane society. He scored 19 from the outside, and it was points, mostly on jumpers from The victory boosted the never a question of who would the foul line, and made several Leprechauns record to 10-5. 


Don "Slink" Silinski lays in two of the 15 points he scored in last night's !l:!-li5 thrashing of Bowling Green at the ACC. 
Neither club shot well in the The Falcons managed to stay first half, Notre Dame making with the Irish in the opening just 16 of 50 shots for 32 percent minutes of the second half and while the Falcons hit on only 26 moved to within 11 points of Notre percent, sinking 10 of 38 at-Dame, 51-40, with 14:09 tempts. remaining. But that was as close 
as Bowling Green was to come. 
Both teams had 28 rebounds but Novak and Egart sank shots to the Irish had an advantage at the give the Irish a 15-point bulge and free throw line, making 11 of 12 the Falcons never even mildlycharity tosses (they canned 24 of threatened again. 
26 overall) to the Falcons' seven Notre Dame put the gameof 11, and the Irish forced away with an 11-point tear thatBowling Green to make 16 tur­saw them open up a 77-52 leadnovers while committing only with 6:11 to go.
seven themselves. 
Phelps began to substitute liberally after that surge,ND wrestlers clearing his bench in the final 
visit Purdue 
minutes. O'Mara took game scoring 
Senior captain Ken Ryan will honors, netting 21 points, and Novak was right behind him with 
be going after a record mark of 48 20. Silinski, with 15 points, andcareer victories, and freshman Stevens, who dropped in 10,heavyweight Mike Fanning will were also double figures forbe looking for his 20th straight Notre Dame. 
win of the season as the Irish wrestlers take on the Boiler­Brian Scanlan led the Falcons attack with 12 points and Jim
marker grapplers in West Kindle chipped in 10.
LaFayette tonight. The Irish will be in action again 
The Irish have already broken on Saturday night, traveling to24 team and individual New York City to take on therecords this year and their nationally-ranked North Carolina current slate is their best won­Tar Heels in Ma(iison Squarelost mark ever. 
Garden. 
Cortina wins at 

MSU Relays 
by E. J. Kinkopf Elio Polselli finished fifth in the 
Freshman shot putter Greg shot put with a heave of 55'5". Cortina added another first place Dan Dunne rounded out the award to his trophy case, as he Irish finishes with a sixth place paced the Notre Dame track effort in the two mile run. Dunne team in the individual com­finished in a time of 9:05.6. 
petition at the MSU Relays in All the results of the com­East Lansing last Saturday. petition were overshadowed by Cortina topped all the shot the record breaking times of two putters with a toss of 59'8". MSU Sprinters who established 
Besides the first place finish by new world marks. Cortina, the Irish managed three Marshall Dill flew to a near fouth place finishes, fifth and a world record in the 30-yard dash sixth. with a time of 29.5 seconds, and 
Tom McMannon turned in a teammate Herb Washington fourth place finish in the hurdles, turned in the outstanding time of 
5.9 seconds in the 60 yard event,and teamed up with Mike Pat bettering the world mark by oneMullalley, and Jack Gerwe for tenth of a second.
another fourth in the shuttle hurdle relay. The track team travels to 
Fleetfooted gridder Eric Kalamazoo this Saturday to take Pennick copped a fourth in the part in the Central Collegiate 300-yard dash with a clocking of competition on the Western 
31.2 seconds. Michigan campus. 
PageS 
Burgundy 
The Burgundy Street Singers are a bright, handsome and throughly "now" musical group with a style and verve as ef­fervescent as their name. 
They're seven in number --five guys and two gals -with a fresh sound and a fresh look that in the space of just two years has boosted them to major ap­pearances on top television shows and made them favorites in popular clubs throughout the country. 
Observer Review 
The group hrst came to national prominence in 1969 when they appeared as regulars on the "Jimmie Rodgers Show" which was the hit of the summer season for CBS-TV. Since that time they have appeared on such programs as the Carol Burnett Show, Johnny Carson Show, Barbara 
McNair Hour and most recently, as semi-regulars on NBC-TV's new "Red Skelton Show". 
One of the most popular con­temporary groups on the club circuit, the Burgundys have played Caesars Palace in Las Vegas with headliners Anthony Newley and Jimmie Rodgers, have topped shows at Harrah's Club in Reno and Lake Tahoe, the Nugget in Sparks, Nevada, the Persian Room of the Plaza Hotel in New York City, the Playboy Plaza Hotel in Miami Beach where they were held over in­definitely for a period of three months, at the Exposition in Ottawa, Canada, and last sum­mer played nearly every major State Fair in the nation. Ad­ditionally, for the past two years, the group has been signed by the Anheuser-Busch Corporation for television commercials and personal appearances on behalf of the company's Budweiser beer. 
The group was formed three years ago on the Kansas State University campus by two members of the glee club. The youngsters were searching for "something extra" in their college life. That something was the formation of a singing group. 
A fan who had followed the group from concert to concert noticed that the two girls always wore the same burgundy colored outfits. He suggested turning that to their advantage by calling themselves something with burgundy in the title.. After discarding Burgundy Hill, they decided upon Burgundy Street Singers. 
The group had started off with singers, guitars and a bass. When the two more were added, they added more instruments. To the sound of guitars and bass were added the sounds of horns, piano, and drums. Little by little, by trial and error, they found what they were looking for --a different and distinctive sound. 
When the group finally began to make a little money from the numerous concerts they were giving, they still did not "declare" a profit. Every cent that was earned was put back into furthering the success of the group, with everyone an equal partner. 
Then late in 1967, one of the group saw an article in the school paper inviting any interested musical organization to complete in the National Intercollegiate Jazz Festival. The first step would be the Regional contest in 
THE OBSERVER. 


Singers reviewed 

Budwt>iser brings the Burgundy ()'Laughlin Salt Lake City, followed, hopefully, by the Finals in St. Louis. 
The fresh, exciting talent of the Burgundy Street Singers was "soundly" recognized as they 
Singers free to ND tonight at 
won in both Salt Lake City and St. 
Louis! 
Talent --like the bubbles in 
their namesake --always reaches 
the top and, as the song says , it's 
"Up, Up And Away" for the 
Burgundy Street Singers. 

Better Late Than Never Valentines 
To SMO Better late than never Happy Valentine's Day. 
JAK 
To the Rabbit: Please don't let anything preclude your appearance today. We all love you. From: Flash, "Puss" and Patrick. 

Dorothy: I choose number 2: 115 pounds of you! 
Smusher 
Sunshine: In everyone's life there's a summer of '72! 
Resolved: That Notre Dame has Great Golden Gentlemen. Plan: A Valentine Thank you for being a part of you and your debate tournament. 
Coach BAM-BAM 
Donna M., I think I've loved you ever since Math class. Need a Valentine? 
Love, Jon 
To Ann and Ann of our own ad dept., We 'wish you to have had a very Happy Valentine's Day. And hope the rest of your days aren't bad either. 
Da Ad People. 
ARKIE VALENTINE: All nighters are great, Tangellos are too. We're just friends; What else is new? Cu-ju-be mine? ..... a friend ..... 
Patrice, Peggy, Mary Elen HVD Your day will come! ­MFC 
HVD Tiger! Osc and I love you 
T.B. or Snoop? 
Dear Josephus, You really know how to deliver a Valentines Day Card...in person, 
Love, Jack 
TERRI, Love to me is you Happy Valentine's Day! George 
To St. Ed's Penthouse, Happy Valentine's Day From Santa Claus 
SKS -my future roomie: Happy hunting on Valentine's Day 
-438 
LAST BUT BY NO MEANS LEAST 
No.1 
With a great deal of love. Have a nice Tuesday, Wed., Thurs., etc. 
No. 13 
17 .2 Shows

T.HURS., FEB. 6:30 & 9:30 
At Box Office 11 to 6 AUDITORIUM 
All Seats Reserved $6, $5, $4 South Bend, lnd 

Tuesday, February 15, 1972 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
POETRY WANTED tor An­thology. Include stamped en, velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California. 90021. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh Feb. 17 or 18. Call 4864. 
Need ride to U. of Ill. Feb. 18. Call 4353. 
Models needed $10-hr. Male or Female. Call 6,8 pm. 283,6811. 
Need ride to U of Ill., around Feb. 18, Call Joan 4346. 
Need ride to Dayton-Springfield area, Feb. 18, Call 8272. 
Need ride to New Jersey. Feb. 18. Share Expenses Bob 1841. 
PERSONALS 
Come home Bob. New potholders purchased. Love, Maud. 
Maria: A grey hair tor something gained A tooth tor something lost To you who are real tine The 15th is yours. 
A beautiful five months in my life. May whatever you do from here on in bring you the happiness you seek but I wasn't able to provide. My eyes are very green today. 
Love always and forever. 
GREAT EXTINCT OX by the people that brought you HOT CHILl IS GROOVY 
Melanie-Thanks. A crass and forward guy. 
Where were John, Martha, Ed, Chris, Bob, and Diane? 
genevieve; as time goes on i realize just what you mean to me, i love you 
brer rabbit 
Dear INSTITUTIONALIZED Consuela, Your REPUTATION still stands pat in yours and my book. (I don't believe it) 
Cavanaugh Bell-man. 
Beautiful-you ARE NOT the lucky one. I NEED YOU NEAR ME HURRY BACK. I LOVE YOU 
ALWAYS YOURS CREEP 
KO: The snow melted. No one will ever know. 
To-ON JAB and REPMUH; You can tool some of the people all of the time, and all of the people some of the time, but you can't tool mom. 
Love, Ann 
RICK, CHARLEY, good job. Sorry about the aftertaste. Love, Joe 
FOR SALE 
Parts and Accessories tor Im­ported cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 272-7187. 
FOR SALE: '63 GALAXIE, GREAT SHAPE. $250 OFFER. RICK 234,6467. 
Michelin X Tires"165-380-15" with tubes. For all VW Bugs; most 15" sports and imports. Best offer 255-6725. 
New STEREO SPEAKERS combining excellent sound and decorative looks at reasonable prices. Call 283-8462 or come to 101 Sorin. 
1970 Toyota Mark II, 4 dr. automatic, Ziebart. snows, 29,000 mi., garaged and excellent, $1700 firm. 233-9701. 
For sale: Minolta lens Me Rokkor 55mm., 11.7, $65 Tel. 233-2340 after 5:00pm. 
'69 Datsun 1600 cc. stick shift. good condition. Call 259-8286 after 7 pm. 
LOST AND FOUND 
LOST: RING, GOLD WITH BLUE STONE, BISHOP KEARNEY H.S. REWARD $5.00. CALL 8341. 
Lost: Dietzgen slide rule. Brown leather case. Initials J.F.K. on tab. Reward. Call 272-2227. 
Lost: Ladies gold watch. Sen­timental value. Peggy 272-2551. 
Found: Season basketball ticket Call Tom 287-2731 and give evidence. 

Lost: '72 class ring at National Guard Armory (kick ott party); White gold and blue stone; name inscribed on back. Reward. Call John 232-2725. 
NOTICES 
DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and Within Europe. Leave anytime from NY-Chicago. Flight Center 227 North Randall, Madison, WI 53706. (608) 263,3131. 
ATTENTION PRE-LAW STUDENTS!!! LSAT REVIEW COURSE NOW ACCEPTING STUDENTS FOR APRIL (AND OTHER LSAT TESTS.) FOR INFORMATION CONTACT: 
EDUCATIONAL  IDEAS:  
KELLY  FLYNN,  232-8236.  
AVERAGE  SCORE  INCREASE  
100 POINTS.  


Need typing done??? Will do typing tor reasonable rates and on short notice " don't waste time pecking away. Call Chip 8256. 
OVERSEAS JOBS FOR STUDENTS. Australia, Europe, 

S. America, Africa, etc. All professions and occupations, $700 to $3,000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing, Free in, formation Write, JOBS OVERSEAS, Dept. F2, Box 15071, San Diego, Ca. 92115. 
EUROPE THIS SUMMER-Notre Dame credit at University of Vienna, Austria. Ample op­portunity tor tours or independent travel. 234-6519. 
Juniors -Sign up to have your portrait taken for the 1973 year book. 2,C LaFortune. 9-6:00 daily or call l-454. To be in the book, you must be photographed now. 
Computer Dating Write: Data­Mate. P.O. Box 703 South Bend. 
STUDENTS WANTED tor small technical college . Curriculum 
ECPD accredited. Major in 9 lields of drafting, 2 fields of Civil and Electronics. A.S. Degree. 
Industry recruits on our campus. Transfers accepted February 14th through 21st. Institute of Drafting and Technology, Morrison, 
Illinois, 61270. 

ROME, ITALY. Summer Program. Stimulating curriculum. Outstanding faculty. Etruscan Archeology Program. Transferable credits. June 12­July 19. $760. Write Trinity College-Rome Campus Trinity College Hartford, Connecticut 06106. 
The martians will return to the martian landing pit June 22. For more into. write Hotline c-o Larry or Jack, Community Mental Health · Frederich, MD 21701. 
Long layer cuts $3.00. Trims, $2.50. Call Ann between 5 & 5: 30 at 7471. 
Edge City · SMC coffeehouse (under Moreau). Live rock, Friday night. 
FOR RENT 

Summer rent: 3-bedroom house near Miami St. Comfortable, large. $150 month. 287-0350. 
Two bedroom townhouse near Town and Country Shopping Center. l'h baths. Reasonable. Call anytime after 5 259-0512. 
Words 1da 2da 3da 4da 5da 
1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 ll-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 







