
Heat wave coming: high today 30 degrees. 

Vol. VI No. 68 notre. dame-saint mary's student newspaper Tuesday, February 1. 1972 
IRA vows "reprisals" 
Killings awakep. Ulst~~~~l~J.[Qr 

11-12 ND budget deficit to top $100,000 
dollars are required just to cover This year an initial of $300,000
by John Abowd problem under control.
cost-of-living increases. This was made to the unemployment 
Many major universities areObst>rver Assistant Editor 
matches the added revenue that a 
insurance fund. Wilson predicted 
facing the same problem of
$100 a semester tuition increase that the practice would cost one 
runaway cost. Princeton, for 
Salaries and a 6 to 7 percent would provide but the increase and a half million dollars over example, has publicized its
wouldn't meet rising costs out­
inflationary pressure caused the five years. austerity budget designed to
side of the payroll.

University budget to jump from a reduce spending a million $76,000 excess to a predicted 1971-Wilson said that "much of the Can•t pass on costs dollars. 
pressure for increased faculty72 deficit of $700,000, according to 
salaries comes from the
Rev. Jerome Wilson vic!'­Solutions to the financial pinch Measures include ra1smg
American Association of
president for business affairs. are not easy to find. Manufac­under-graduate tuition $300,
University Professors and
Notre Dame's cash loss has turing firms can pass almost all trimming athletic expenditures,
competition from other
been declining from a 1968-69 increasing costs to the consumer firing IOOemployees and limiting 
universities." AAUP rates
high of $937,000 but the University but the university has "almost use of the University computer. 
faculty salaries on a four grade
has been unable to control ex­reached the limits of its ability to
scale.

penditures during the most pass cost increases on to the recent inflationary push. student in the form of tuition Federal help?
"This (the anticipated loss), of New insurance costs increases," Wilson said. course, we find discouraging," "While we are going to con­'fhe Federal government could Wilson wrote in the recently "Major universities," Wilson tinue to try to maximize income, come to the rescue. Although r!'leased annual report. "We felt noted, "are under considerable Notre Dame and all universities Wilson said that Nixon's Phase II w!' wE're getting expenditures pressure to maintain top level are going to be cutting back with programs have not eased the under control, only to find that faculty salaries." each university concentrating on inflationary pressure, he added thE' inroads of inflation and the Another major new expense is Fr. Wilson on the budget: "We the things it does best," the Vice­that Congress is seriously con­unemployment insurance for sidering "across-the-board aid"
almost insatiable demands for felt we were getting expenditures president continued. increased expenditures have non-faculty personnel. The under control... " to colleges. once again thrown us out of Unemployment Compensation Wilson suggested that ND "In the meantime," he added, 
balance." Act was recently extended to would probably use "strict "we must do everything possible With a $27.5 million payroll include Universities and other academic priorities" in at­to maintain a balanced budget over one and a half million non-profit organizations. tempting to bring the rising cost with or without government aid." 
by Bernard Weinraub 
<c> 1!172 New York Times 
Belfast, Northern Ireland, Jan. 31­Stunned by the killing of 13 persons in Sunday's civil rights demonstration in Londonderry, Northern Ireland was torn today by protests, bombings and terror. 
Thousands of Roman Catholic workers 
stayed away from jobs in Belfast, Lon­
donderry and Armagh to protest the 
killings. Troops came under automatic 
fire in the Andersontown and Falls Road 
areas of Belfast, where black mourning 
flags with white crosses hung from hun­
dreds of windows. A 100-pound bomb 
E'xploded in a department store in the 
center of Belfast, critically wounding a 
policeman. 
Across the snow covered province, the mood among the Roman Catholic minority was one of sullen fury. Seven Catholic priests in Londonberry accused the British Army of "wilfull murder." And John llume, a Catholic leader, called yester­day's incident "A cold blooded massacre." 

"mass murder" 
Early today the two wings of the Irish !{!'publican Army spoke with one voice and vowed vengeance on the British Army for the "Mass murder of 13 innocent people." I.R.A. leaders of the Official and Provisional Wings said at a secret news conference in Londonderry that "There will be reprisals, without any shadow of doubt." 
Both the army and the Catholics poin­tedly defended themselves in the af­l!'rmath of the worst single incident since the civil rights struggle began in August, 1969. When the Catholic minority began its campaign for equal job opportunities, b!'tter housing and voting reforms. 
According to witnesses, the killings occurred when more than 10,000 civil rights marchers came up against a British army barbed-wire barricade in William Street in The Bogside, a Catholic area, of Londonderry. Leaders of the march ap­

:.t"" 
.. 
pealed for calm as the demonstrators turned and surged toward a street called "Free Derry Corner", where the organizers · planned to hold a protest meeting. 
Some observers said that a few bottles, paving stones and chair legs were thrown at the troops manning the barrier. Army officials said the troops were attacked with bombs and bullets--and then moved through the barricades. 

snipers shot dead 
Lt. Col. Derek Wilford, the commander of the parachute unit manning the barricades, said that the initial sniper attack broke out when two gunmen were seen opening fire from a pile of rubble beside a nearby housing project. He said the gunmen were shot dead. 
Maj. Gen. Robert Ford, Commander of the British Land Forces in the North, who went into the Bogside area with rear elements, said that his soldiers had opened fire only after demonstrators had flung nail bombs, acid bombs, and molotov cocktails at the troops. 
parachute battahon opened up only after 
they had been fired on," said Ford. 
"Unfortunately, a Holligan element took 
over and attacked our troops." 
In London and Belfast, army officials 
said that four of the 13 dead were on the 
wanted list of suspected terrorists and one 
of the dead was found with four nail 
bombs. 

The army said they had a detailed report 
on each shooting incident and had ac­
curate map references of where each ex­
change had taken place. 

All the army's statements were 
emotionaly and bitterly denied by Roman 
Catholics. Parents and relatives of the 13 
dead-whose ages ranged from 16 to 41-­
insisted that none of the victims was ar­
med or a member of the I.R.A. 

priests protest 
One witness, the Rev. Edward Daley, curate of St. Eugene's Cathedral, said he was standing off the curb at Rossville in the Bogside when the army pushed through the barricades and moved in. 
"I saw the Saracens heading in and I ran with the rest of the crowd," he said. "I headed across the courtyard of the Flats and I was about halfway across when the shooting started. A young boy of about 15 was running beside me, and he fell wounded. 
"I threw myself on my face and crawled back to the boy. I gave him the Last Rites of the church and then lay beside him. I don't know how long the firing lasted but it seemed like ages. They shot in­discriminately and everywhere around them without any provocation." 
The seven priests in Londonderry who denounced the army today, and who have a broad following in the Catholic areas, said: "We accuse the Colonel of the Parachute Regiment of willful murder. We accuse the Commander of Land Forces of being an accessory before the fact. We accuse the soldiers of shooting in­discriminately nito a fleeing crowd, of gloating over casualties, of preventing medical and spiritual aid from reaching the wounded and dying." 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, February 1, 1972 
Bengali-Bihari fighting enters third day 
by Sydney H. Schanberg 
(C) 1972 New York Times 
Dacca, Pakistan, Jan. 31 --As shooting between Bengalis and non-Bengalis continued for a third day, in Dacca, the prime minister, Sheik Mujibur Rah­man, offered forgiveness today to the non-Bengalis, many of whom had collaborated with the Pakistan army, but threatened force if they did not surrender their arms immediately. 
The two heavily non-Bengali neighborhoods in the capital where the fighting is taking place -Mohammedpur and Mirpur, remained under a 24-hour cur­few, with a cordon around them, as Bengali soldiers and the police continued to search for arms and the non-Bei:lgalis continued to fire on them and other Bengalis. 
The Indian army, whose vic­tory over the Pakistani oc­cupation army here last month helped establish Bangladesh, the nation proclaimed by the Bengali secessionists in East Pakistan, was being kept in reserve, to be moved in if needed. Both Indian and Bengali officials said that some of the shooting in the non­Bengali areas was being done by Pakistani soldiers who had gone into hiding there in civilian clothes rather than surrender with the rest of the Pakistani forces on Dec. 16. 
With newsmen barred from the areas, the picture of the fighting remained confused and no exact figures were available on ca.:iu<:~lties. But a check of hospitals indicated that the Bengali casualties must be in the scores, with at least 20 dead. There are no figures on the non­Bengali casualties, for they are 
Gen. Westmoreland predicts new North Vietnamese offensive 
by Iver Peterson 

<c> 1972 New York Times 
Saigon, Jan. 31-Mter nearly a week of talks with field com­manders, Gen. William C. Westmoreland said today there was "every indication" that the North Vietnamese were preparing for a major offensive in South Vietnam in February. 
Westmoreland, the U.S. Army Chief of Staff, said he expected the offensive to consist of several phases, with the fighting cen­tered in the northern most provinces and the central highlands, but perhaps also on the coastal plain in the vicinity of the port city of Quinhon. 
He added that he felt U.S. and South Vietnamese forces were well prepared and that they had "a great deal of confidence that they can handle any forthcoming enemy initiative." 
Westmoreland, who spoke at a news conference in the U.S. command headquarters, was the latest in a series of high-ranking American and South Vietnamese officials to predict an offensive coinciding with the approach of TET, The Lunar New Year, on Feb. 15 and President Nixon's trip to China beginning Feb. 21. 
Shortly after the general's news conference, a spokesman for the United States Embassy announced that Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker would leave tomorrow for 10 to 14 days of "consultations" in Washington. 
The spokesman would not comment on whether; the consultations would concern the possible offensive, which Bunker has also predicted, or Nixon's visit to China. But the timing of the ambassador's departure suggested that those two issues would be on his agenda. 
American and South Viet­
namese headquarters, 
meanwhile, reported continued 
activity in the regions where the 
offensive is expected. 
U.S. officials reported saturation bombing by B-52 bombers in the central highlands on both sides of Vietnam's bor­ders with Laos and Cambodia and just below the demilitarized zone between North and South Vietnam. 
The South Vietnamese reported destroying three of four enemy tanks sighted near the highlands capital of Kontum. 
The North Vietnamese have rarely used tanks in South Vietnam, but for the last few weeks the South Vietnamese have been reporting enemy ar­mored movements in the highlands. 
being treated in their neigh­borhoods. 
Sheik Mujib had given the non­Bengalis until 1 P.M. today to turn in their weapons, most of which were given to them by the Pakistani army during its nine months here. Today was also the deadline for the surrender of arms by the Bengali guerrillas, who fought for independence and received most of their weapons from the Indian government. 
These guerrillas have turned in part, but not all, of their large arsenal, and the non-Bengalis ­who are known as Biharis -have not voluntarily turned in any. It 
was  from  the  Biharis that  the  
Pakistani  army  drew  the  
greatest  number  of  

collaborators. Together, they killed at least several hundred thousand Bengalis during the crackdown, an effort to crush the 
Bengali autonomy movement. The bones of some of the Bengali victims still lie scattered at execution sites in the Bihari neighborhoods. At a symbolic arms surrender 
at 

Dacca Stadium -during which a supposedly elite Bengali guerrilla contingent turned in some of its weapons --Sheik Mujib told the crowd of about 40,000 that "we can forgive" the Biharis. "I don't want you to kill these people," he said, "regardless of what they have done to us. But they must give up their ams. If they don't, the arms will be taken by force." 
The Prime Minister also ap­pealed to the Urdu-speaking non­Bengalis who have always identified with West Pakistan and the Pkistani army. "In the name of Allah," he said, "learn the Bengali language, become Bengalis and learn to live here. Your safety will be guaranteed." 
He praised the guerrillas for 
their restraint in dealing with the 
non-Bengalis and again promised 
that those who collaborated with 
the Pakistanis would be brought 
to trial. 
The arms surrendered at the 
stadium today included huge 
piles of boxed ammunition, 
grenades, machine guns, a few 
small antiaircraft gun. 
Most of the firing today was harmless, but there were some accidents. Four guerrillas wounded by stray bullets were being treated in the late morning in the emergency room of the Dacca Medical College Hospital
Elsewhere in the hospital were many of the casualties from the firing in the Mirpur section. One wounded Bengali soldier con­firmed that a fairly large Bengali contingent--about 150 policemen and soldiers --had been surrounded by non-Bengalis in Murpur last night and had broken out only after suffering a number of casualties. 
He said that in his platoon of 25, one man was killed and five wounded. Other patients gave similar accounts. 
All the wounded at the hospital said that Pakistani troops in civilian clothes were among those who fired at them. They said the Pakistanis used 2-inch mortars, machine guns and grenades. 

Stun the Army with Rockne. And agonize with Ara Parseghian, as USC topples the Fighting Irish. 
Sweep around end with Hornung. And get close to the action with Lujack and Layden, Frank Tripucka and Kevin Hardy and Gipp. 
This is where you can do it. In the 320 exciting pages of The Glory of Notre Dame. Many of America's greatest sports­writers-from Grantland Rice to Jimmy Bres­lin and Roger Kahn-have written their most brilliaPt and colorful oieces about Notre Dame's spectacular football record and its legendary players and coaches. Now, twenty-two of these memor­able articles, which originally appeared in Sport Magazine, are collected for the 
first time in this one handsome volume. It's another big wtn for Notre Dame. And for you. Order your copy today. 
The Glory of Notre Dame 
Introduction by Johnny Lujack Edited by Fred Katz 
30 black and white and color photographs 


THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
$6.95 


Fr. Brennen honored with Sorin Award 

Peking warns USSR, India after Bhutto's arrival 
in the streets for the Pakistan believed to be aimed primarily at Bhutto, the editorial quoted the Tibet and created a so-called by Ian Stewart leader, according to reports from re-affirming the strong links Pakistani leader as having said question of 'Tibetan refugees's
<c> 1972 New York Times the Chinese capital, but he was between China and Pakistan. At the Pakistan , government had after coercing tens of thousands given a warm greeting at the the same time it was seen as a made "terrible blunders" in of inhabitants of Tibet into going 
Hong Kong, Jan. 31--President airport by Premier Chou En-Lai chance for the Pakistan leader to handling the question of East to India." It added that the Zulfikar Ali Bhutto of Pakistan and other Chinese officials. brief the Chinese on the state of pkaistan. Indians had since used this as a arrived in Peking today for talks Bhutto previously had visited his truncated nation. The talks However, the editorial rejected pretext for carrying out with Chinese officials. Coin­Peking in November, when, as a were also expected to focus on the this as an excuse for India's subversive activities againstciding with his arrival, China special envoy of former growth of Soviet influence on the action, asserting that the issue Tibet. delivered a strong verbal attack , President Agha Mohammed subcontinent and India's could only be solved by Pakistan. on India and the Soviet Union, Yahya Khan, he was reported to heightened prestige as a result of "It does not mean that Soviet India, it said, with the backingwarning that they would have been seeking a promise of its military victory. revisionism is allowed to support 
of the Soviet Union, wasultimately suffer "defeat" on the Chinese aid as war loomed bet­China's attack on India and the India in dispatching troops to 
"determined to legalize itssubcontinent. ween Pakistan and India. Soviet Union was contained in an occupy East Pakistan and im­aggression and occupation,
The Pakistan President Chinese leaders publicly pledged editorial published in the Peking posing a so-called solution on which once started will continue,flew to the Chinese capital after support for the Pakistan Daily Jenmin Jih Pao under a Pakistan by force from outside," 
and turn East Pakistan into a
announcing his country's with­government but China did not headline reading, "It Is Im­the editorial said. new Indian protectorate."drawal from the British Com­intervene directly when India permissible to Leagalize India's The editorial dismissed 
The editorial warned that India monwealth because Britain, pushed into East Pakistan. Invation and Occupation of East Bangladesh as something that and the Soviet Union had "better
Australia and New Zeland's India's defeat of Pakistan's Pakistan." The editorial was was created by the Indian not rejoice too soon," recalling
recognition of Bangladesh came forces in the East was distressing transmitted abroad by Hsinhua, government through naked earlier Chinese statements thatshortly after his announcement. to Peking not only because it the Chinese press agency. aggression and subversion with the fall of Dacca was not a Hhutto was accompanied by a severly weakened an ally but also The Chinese asserted for the the support of Soviet 
milestone but the "starting point
large party of senior Pakistan because it represented a victory first time in the editorial that the revisionism." of endless strife on the South government officials including by association for the Soviet Hawalpindi authorities may also It said that more than 10 years 
Asian subcontinent and of theirthe commanders of three armed Union and was damaging to have been at fault in East ago the Indian government had defeat."forces. A snowfall forced the Chinese prestige. Pakistan. In an apparent engineered a "counter­cancellation of a mass welcome Bhutto's present visit was refcrencl' to a statement made b revolutionary rebellion in China's 
on campus today 
7:00 · meeting, freshman council, 2nd floor Ia fortune 
7:45 .. hockey, minnesota-duluth vs notre dame, ace 
8:00 --lecture, john higham, ethnicity in america: the melting pot and its critics, library auditorium 
8:30 .. dance, peral lang dance company , o'laughlin auditorium 

nd-smc 
Awarded by Alumni Board 

notre dame-saint mary's student newspaper 
The Alumni Board of Directors, this past weekend voted unanomously to bestow the Sorin Award upon Fr. Thomas Bren­nen, professor of Philosophy. 
The award, the highest honor the Alumni Association can bestow on any person, was given to Fr. Brennen for the "distinguished service" he has given to the University. 
The award was presented Saturday by the members of the board to Fr. Brennen at his bed in the infirmary. 
Fr. Brennen was born in 1898 in Purdue, Indiana. He received his doctorate from the Gregorian University. He was ordained a priest in 1929 and taught here at Notre Dame until his retirement this year. 
The alumni board also voted to ask the University to continue to give the Campus Ministry in­stitutional and budgetary sup­port. It was the Alumni Board that initially suggested the revitalization of the Campus Ministry two years ago. 
Regarding the present situation on the merger, the 
l 

Board voted to change the name of the ND-SMC Alumni Com­mittee on Unification to a committee of cooperation bet­ween the two associations. Presently the Peoria Alumni Club has an SMC alumnae as its secretary. 
The purpose of the Boards meetings this weekend was to familiarize and acquaint the new and old members of the board to university policies. During the weekend the board heard speeches from Fr. William Toohey, Director of Campus Ministry, Fr. James Burtchaell, University Provost and Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh's annual State of the University Address. 
The Board also welcomed Dr. John Kungren as the new President of the Association, and other new board members which included Coley O'Brien, former ND football star. 
The text of the award given Fr. Brennan follows: 
To Thomas Brennen, CSC 
We make this award to you 
in behalf of the 45,000 alumni, 
the hearts and minds of many 


world briefs 
Tht> Nt>w York Times 

W;~shington--Ronald L. Ziegler, the White House press secretary, said that North Vietnam's decision to make its peace plan public was hl'ing reviewed and that he would have no comment until today. Privately. administration officials seemed pleased over the North Vi£>tnam£>se action. 
London--Reginald Maulding, Britain's home secretary, said in l'arliam£>nt that the government had ordered an independent inquiry into the killings in Londonderry. While Maulding was speaking Ikrnadette Devlin, the Catholic radical from Ulster, physically at­tacked him. 
Washington--Defense Department analysts said that China has hl'gun to replace her medium-range nuclear missiles with an in­termediate-range weapon with greater range and a much improved propellant system. The analysts said that a "handful" of the new rockets had been deployed so far. 
SECOND FRONT PAGE ruesday, February 1, 1972 



OBSERVER 
of whom you have touched. You have embodied all the virtues the Notre Dame Alumni esteem. You have truly been the priest-teacher to whom generations of students have turned for knowledge, compassion, warmth and love. You have been the whole man which this we strive to create. 
The founder of Notre Dame reflected an abiding concern not only for the greatness of his school but for the youth who were charged him. In that cherished tradition you importantly contributed to producing an unparralleled man. A great teacher is one who knows and can com­municate, the greatest teacher is one who exem­plifies and you have been all of these. 
You are known to Alumnus in every walk of life and in the most remote corners of the world. You are known and cherished not just as a teacher but as a man who combined the high virtues and sacred purposes of the priesthood with warmth and concern for all the youth of Notre Dame. 
We honor you today on this your premature retirement as a Notre Dame man unexcelled. 
We honor you as educator, as counselor, and as a friend. 
We know you most im­portantly as the priest teacher. 

~P~ag~e-4----------------------------------------~T.~ll~E OBJER_~V.~~-~~----------------------------T_ue_s_da_y_._F_eb_r_ua_r_y_l_,__
l972 

ca~npus news 
Blood Drive 
Carnie! Geurs, age 50, is in­
fected with multiple myoloma 
and has made a desperate appeal 
for blood transfusions. The 
disiese affects the blood-making 
capacity of the bone marrow and 
paralyses the kidneys. 
Mrs. Armand Spitaels his sister, said that Mr. Geurs, ~ho is at home but must depend upon a kidney machine, needs a pint of blook every other week. A kidney transplant will not be possible until the bblood condition is cleared up, Mrs Spitaels said. 
Mr. Geurs, married with no children, has shown some im­provement but doctors are still indefinite about how much time it will take for the transplant to show effects. 
Mr. Geurs has been out of work since July and does not know when he will be able to return to work. Mrs. Spitaels labeled the couple as "not financially well off" since the hospitalization and the machine have cost them over $15,000. They received some help from friends in Mishawaka who raised $1500 in December for them with a benefit card party. 
Mrs. Spitaels said that the members of the family and his fellow employees at Krisman Manufacturing Co. in South Bend have already donated blood. 
Mr. Geurs first noticed his illness last June when he complained of a constantly bad taste in his mouth. After tests in a local Hospital, he was sent to Mayo Clinic in Minnesota, where his illness was diagnosed. He was then sent to a hospital in Indianapolis from which he was released after two months. Besides the blood transfusions and the time he spends on the kidney machine, he must go to Indianapolis every four weeks for tests. 
Mrs. Geurs, who must work away from the house but is trying to find work she can do at home, said, "It was something that came up suddenly on us. We would certainly appreciate the help from the students." 
The blood, which is usually $50 per pint will be given freely to Mr. Geurs by the Central Blood Band Inc. if it can be replaced with another pint of any type. Therefore, it does not matt.cr what the donor's type is. 
The blood bank is located at 204 
W. Navarre. 


Rap center open 
Anyone who has felt down knows what a drag it is not to have anyone to talk to. The Rap Center at 209 Western Avenue hopes to provide an open at­mosphere in which people can communicate about their problems. 
The center is a storefront and phone operation open from lOAM to 2AM every day. It provides experienced help with drug problems from drug iden­tification to bum tips. The referral system can direct people to a variety of free services such 

as draft counseling, pregnancy 
and abortion help, medical and 
psychiatric aid. Anyone can drop 
in or call to talk about whatever 
is on his mind. 
At this time volunteers are 
desperately needed to help staff 
the center. As a staff person one 
deals with a variety of social 
problems and works closely with 
a tight collective. 
In order to join the staff each trainee must come to the center for a short informative interview. Applicants must take a twenty-­hour course run by center per­sonnel which lasts two weeks. Staff members and professionals will lead discussions on drugs, law, personality, reality therapy; there will be role-playing of day­to-day crises seen at the center. After completion of the training course several weeks of on-the­job work must be completed before the regular staff may vote a trainee on to the staff. 
The next training session for the Rap Center will begin on Monday, January 31. Anyone interested in working there should come down in person or call the center at 289-7986. 
Nuclear study grant 
Research on the nature and structure of the atomic nucleus has received support through a $21,000 grant from the National Science Foundation to the University of Notre Dame. 
Drs. Eugene R. Marshalek and Paul E. Shanley, associate and assistant professors of physics, respectively, seek to develop theoretical models of the nucleus 
Conspiracy conference a 'success' 
Sr. Patricia McNeil, C.S.C. 

by Mike 0' Hare stated that the only failure of the conference was the inability to get a lawyer, something con­
The Conspiracy Conference 
sidered a necessity when
sponsored by the Non-Violence 
discussing conspiracy and the
Department this past week was 
law.
termed "a success" by its coordinator. 

According to Sr. McNeil, Mr. Leonard Boudin, a lawyer for the Sister Patricia McNeil said Harrisburg Eight and the that she thought the conference sche~uled speaker for thursday was successful because its main evenmg, could not attend due to purpose was to "put the non­the necessity of being in court the violence program up front again following morning. . . She said on campus concerning relevant that Mr. William Kunstler ex­issues." pressed a desire to address the 


A flu epidemic? 
I ~ 
! 
. . Sister Celeste, a Notre Dame Student Infirmary nurse, denied yesterday that there was a flu epidemic on campus. S_he admitt~d that the number of flu cases was high right now, but cla1med that 1twas not unusual for this time of year. 
"There are approximately 8 to 10 flu-stricken students in the In­firmary at this time," she said, "but none of them are serious. Most of the cases we are seeing are of the 24 hour type." 
One o! the reasons she gave for the relatively high incidence of the flu now IS that many students contracted the virus while at home and ~ave spread it ~pon their return to school. She mentioned that neglect 1s also responsible for the number of illnesses. 
Sister said the best action for a flu-sufferer is to come to the In­
firmary to be checked by a nurse or physician. She added that aspirin 
would also be helpful. 


conference but was also unable to do so because fo court com­mittments. 
Sr. McNeil also said she was pleased that Anthony Russo, codefendent with Daniel Ellsburg in the Pentagon Papers case, filled in for David Dellinger, who was unable to attend due to an appendecitis attack. 
Sr. McNeil also said that if his parole board allows him to speak, Fr. Daniel Berrigan would come to Notre Dame to discuss con­spiracy and the law. 
which can predict and explain experimental observations. Marshalek is particularly in­terested in fairly large nuclei which are deformed from the usual spherical shape. Shanley is studying small nuclei of hydrogen and helium composed of only three parts. 
The nuclei of a few unusual 
atoms  called  "rare  earth  
elements"  are  elongated  to  be  
football  or  cigar-shaped.  Mar­ 

shalek is studying the way these nuclei can rotate (end over end or about the axis) and studying the changes in energy levels the nucleus undergoes when swit­ching from one type of rotation to anotner. 
Shanley is examining the simplt-st of the complex nuclei-­those containing only three parts. 
Nuclei with only one or two parts are fairly well understood, he said, while the interactions among three bodies are significantly more comples. In addition, he explained, the forces which govern interactions among the protons and neutrons making up the nucleus are not known in detail. He anticipates that a model of the simple three-part nucleus may help physicists approximate the basic in­teractions among the particles. 
Ombudsman 
The service of the Ombudsman staff will be available to the Notre Dame and St. Mary's student body and faculty beginning today, according to Student Government Om­budsman Paul Dziedzic. 
According to Dziedzic, the 
staff, including twenty students 
from both campuses, has handled 
problems ranging from 
cockroaches to co-education and 
"is at the service of anyone 
puzzled by life at Notre Dame ­
St. Mary's." 
Staff members will man the phones during weekday af­ternoons and calls made during off-hours will be logged by the Student Government secretary and referred to the staff. 
Calls should be directed to 7638 during the afternoon hours for immediate help. 


Indian lectures 
Dr. William H. Hodge of the University of Wisconsin an­thropology department will present two talks on American Indians Wednesday tomorrow, a feature of The American Scene: A Cultural Series. The talks, at 2 and 7:30p.m. in Carroll Hall of the Madeleval Building, Saint Mary's College, are open to the public without charge. 
The afternoon talk is "Death of a Potawatomi Village: Evergreen County, Wisconsin'' and the evening subject will be "Navajo Urban Migration from the Perspective of the Family." 
Hodge, a graduate of Washington University of St. Louis, and Brandeis University, is the author of several books, including "The City Indiana," currently in press; "Navajo Urban Migration," and "The Albuquerque and Wisconsin. 

Hey! Do You Know That You Don't Have To Be 21 To Play Pool At 


FRANKIE'S? 
Everyday Specials -Ocean Perch $1.25 -1 0 oz. Rib-Eye Steak -V2 Breasted Chicken  $1.50 $1.50  
Includes Tureen Soup, Salad,  

Bread, Butter And Coffee 

·Cultural Arts Commission's . ! Performing Arts Series Presents 
l 
Pearl Lang Dance Co
• 

Tues. Feb. 1 8:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
$1.50 P .A.S. Patrons Free 
Tuesday, February 1, 1972 THE· OBSERVER Page 5
---------==---­
Observer Insight 
The plight of the blind student 
by Art Ff'rranti Insight Starr Reporter 
There is almost unknown by the student bodies of Notre Dame and St. Mary's another "Minority" on campus. But unlike other minorities, these pl•ople do differ physically since they lack the sense of sight --but that is the only difference. 
Also unlike most minorities, the blind are not covered by the F<'deral Civil Rights Act <however, a state "Model White Cane Law" has been accepted in 23 states since its origination in 1\l(i6l. 
There are four undergraduate and one graduate blind students at Notre Dame and St. Mary's. There is also one blind professor on the Notre Dame faculty. This is the largest number of blind students to be at two institutions at any one time. 
Mark Maurer, a blind sophomore, besides taking classes at NO, is President of the National Federation for the Rlind, Student Division. As such, he has to deal with the problems of the 1,500 blind students across the nation <there are an estimated 400,000 to two million blind people in the U.S. today l. 
Professor Stephen Rogers, on the General Program and Comparative literature faculties, has been with Notre Dame for l'leven years. Jim Grimes is a second year law student at the l fniversity. 
As can be evidenced by these three people. the blind are a vital part of the Notre Dame com­munity. 
Admission standards for the 
blind are the same for sighted 
students. Grimes said the ad­
missions board knew of his 
blindness and had accepted him 
on the basis of his academic 
m('rit. llis basis for a scholarship 
was also on that of academic 
abilities. 
Ht>adt>rs Essential 
"Headers" are a necessary tool 
for the blind on any campus. 
Notre Dame does not fund any 
special program for readers but leaves that responsibility to the individual. Prof. Rogers, who utilizes two student readers, says that they are paid "a mere pit1mc<>" of their worth. Maurer has readers from the NO -SMC community. Red Cross volun­teers give of their time for Jim Crimes. "You have to have the readers," said Grimes, "but we also make use of tape recorders and what Braille material is available." 

Maurer likes the idea of having to take the initiative at Notre Dame to get your own readers. "It is not good (for a University to provide readers and special programs for the blind) since it provides me the opportunity to work for myself and to get help myself," Maurer stated. 
Notre Dame also does not provide any special programs for the blind and Maurer agrees with this idea. "People should not try to be specifically helpful to blind people because it probably will not help them in the long run," he said refering to types of rehabilitation programs at universities such as Hawaii and Illinois. 
Prof. Rogers agrees with Maurer, "The individual must meet his own needs but the University does make allowances whenever possible." For his own duties as a teacher, Rogers said that he is, "expected to perform like everyone else in his depart­ment." However he favored special rehabilitation centers which are set up for all the handicapped in many states to help prepare a student who has sufficient qualifications and desire to get into a college. 
fi.Rmes-saidthftt~t deal of work expected of him like all law students and that he has adjusted to the problems associated with doing this work. 
Misunderstandings Hurt 

As far as problems concerning this completion of work, Grimes said the main problem is that people do not understand about the blind and are indecisive about ''not doing enough vs. doing too much, so consequently many do nothing." 
Mardi Gras soon 
' "•<ll preparations in Stepan Center are being made for the N ;) ·me Mardi Gras. The weeklong affair will begin with a kickoff •day February 4. 
Maurer also feels that a lack of understanding is at the root of the problems of the blind and the prejudices against them. "few hate the blind but due to a lack of understanding, descrimination may be as great or greater than that of racial prejudice, Maurer added. 
Hogers said that, "there are no sensational statements to be made about the blind. Intelligent people on the whole are easy to get along with." However, he added, "People in the outside community are descriminated against more than here." 
Grimes said though that "he would like Notre Dame to in­crease their tapes and Braille materials for the blind as, in fact, all universities should." There have been improvements and considerations," he added. 
The greatest problem the blind have had to face here --and everywhere for that matter -­seems to be that of acceptance. Grimes said that there is "no way to make someone like you. Be yourself and hope people will accept you. Adjust to the situation and hope the people will adjust to you." Maurer said that, "I do not mind being known as a blind guy, because that is what I am; but I am also a person." 
Kenneth Jernigan, President for the National Federation of the Blind, stated in a report to the Iowa Commission for the Blind, "The real problem of blindness is not the loss of eyesight. The real problem is the misunderstanding and lack of information which exist. If a blind person has proper training, and if he has opportunity, blindness is only a physical nuisance." 

PUBLIC SERVICE -
FARlEY ACADEMIC COMM. 

FOR INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS CONTACT 
Chuck HamiltonBob Atkinson Jo£> Hayden, Inc . 
. Jordan Motors, Inc. 
1102 South 11th Streetli09 I<~ast Jefferson Blvd. 
Niles, Michigan 49120Mishawaka, Indiana 46554 1'!19) 259-1981 
((i16) 683-3920 


RENT·A·CAR 

For students and faculty 21 and over. 
Bill Kelley Horny Hammes Fordland 244 South Olive South Bend, Indiana 46621 (219) 289-4041 


Page 6. THE OBSERVER 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
•:ditor-in-Chi~r. Glen S. Corso Assistant F.ditor 
Alisislant Editor
T.C. Treanor All succe5sful newspapers are 
John Abowd
ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend
Rusiness Maaager 

anyone or anything if they can help ,\dnrlising ManagerJim Jendryk it; if the iob is forced upon them. 
Bill Bauerle
they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Busineu: 283-7 471 

News: 283-1715 




Give blood 
Multiple myoloma is one of those diseases that are found in the catalogues of obscene ills which afflict mankind, ills that force men to give up their jobs and depend on machines for their life. 
Camiel Guers, a South Bend resident, has multiple myoloma. That disease has affected the blood making capacity of his bone marrow and paralyzed his kidneys. As a result he is out of work and has to depend on a kidney machine to live. He could get a kidney transplant, but only if the blood condition disappears. In addition Mr. Geurs needs blood and lots of it. He requires a pint of that precious fluid every other week. 
Family, friends and co-workers have all contributed to helping keep Mr. Geur alive. But out of work and faced with tremendous medical costs­--totaling over $15,000 so far---has put a severe strain on Mr. Geur and his wife. 
Blood costs $50 a pint, that's $50 that the Geurs have to come up with every other week, along with money for the kidney machine, and money to pay for visits to the Doctor and the like. 
Central Blood Bank Inc. has agreed to give Mr. Geurs his pint of blood every other week, provided it is replaced with a donated pint. If only 50 Notre Dame students donate blood, then Mr. Geurs can get the rights to 100 weeks of the precious fluid. The Central Blood Bank is located at 204 West Bavarre St. That street is behind Memorial Hospital, that's the one on Michigan Avenue with the addition going up. Mr. Geur needs the blood to live. Most people won't even miss a pint. Go to the blood bank and give up a pint; you never know when you could be in the same spot. 
Guess which hall 
The big game of "Guess what hall is going to get nailed"? is starting 
to sweep across the campus, after Student Body President John Barkett 
announced that the decision on which dorm is going to house co-eds will 
be made this week. 

The residents of the hall eventually chosen will be mad and not without 
some reason. All the various verbiage expended about hall life has not 
been without effect. There is, among some students, a strong feeling of 
attachment to their place of residence, a feeling that has some merit. 
But you can't have women on campus without having an entire hall 
turned over to them. As desirable as the concept is, Notre Dame is not yet 
ready to house women and men on the same floor, or the building. In fact, 
Notre Dame probably won't be ready for it for a long time. 
So the residents of one hall will be turned out in the snow, so to speak. It will be a bitter blow, but not one without some consolation. There will be women inhabitating one of the residence halls, Notre Dame will at long last be co-educational and more importantly a better place to live. With all that possible, how cold can a few flakes of snow be? 
Tuesday, February 1, 1972 

Tom BornhoId t mmm1mmlmmmnnmnnmnmnnmm11111111111 
Math and the Merger 
IIIIIJIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII11111111 II1111111111111111111111111111111111111 II 11111111111111111111111111111111111 
In the recent paroxysm over the status of the merger, a great many 
words were uttered. Few of these managed to form logical phrases. 
Of these a remarkable few were transformed into logical sentences. 
So on down the line, a geometrical progression of the most unfortunate 
sort. Yours Truly searched through this N-Space of irrational 
syllables, and was more able to find a logical SJX->ech than the 
Magnetic Monopole or the Holy Grail. 
One of the big stumbling blocks found in a good many tirades was 
the phrase "equal responsibility". Like a scratched record, the 
animated mouths of the SMC student government babbled .forth this 
phrase. evidently promising themselves to analyze its meaning in 
the next leap year ending in seven. 
As a phrase, Equal Responsibility is meaningful, however. It was 
only in the way it was used with other words that reason was folded 
spindled and mutililated. Equal Reponsibility, as then used, meant 
that the "fault" for the failure of the merger rests equally with the 
Trustee & Co. of both SMC and Notre Dame. 
The fault with a good deal of Equal Responsibility Theorems as they 
were promulgated, was that they talked about blame, without first 
talking about the spectrum of issues that contributed to the impasse. 
To speak about responsibility fGr failure to agree, and to ignore the 
issues of the disagreement is a strange type of ethics. That is, Equal 
Besponsibility is only a statement of the obvious, if it is taken to mean: 
WhPn two parties disagree, each is equally to blame, since each party 
chose not to agree with the other.': 
But the Babble of Rabble meant more than a statement of the ob­
vious. They meant that both campuses had done an equal "wrong". 
This would make all human disagreement a mortal sin, no matter 
what the issues involved. One need not spend a semester in a course in 
ethics to see the problems in that. Negotiations are an attempt to 
reconcile differences in a human desires. To talk about the 
negotiations and to ignore the right and wrong of the two opinions is 
patently absurd. 
To illustrate, consider two very possible causes of trouble during the 
negotiations, money and student life. From various sources of 
information, it seems that the dear Sisters desired that Notre Dame 
pay them a certain sum of money each year on the pretext of "ren­
ting" St. Mary's buildings. As a cause of disagreement, the problem 
becomes "Is this demand reasonable?". If one says yes, the next 
question become "How large a sum is reasonable?". Obviously 
$10,000,0000,000.76 is ridiculous, while $1.25 would be more than 
reasonable. Money doesn't sprout from any known vegetation, a large 
SMC extortion fee would take needed funds away from the quality of 
life and education at the campus. The problem here is a 
sticky one that deserved much attention and discussion before a 
student. even an SBP, could intelligently say who was wrong in the 
failure of the merger. 
Even more interesting is the problem of student life. It is very 
possible that the SMC negotiators desired the administration of the 
merged university be drawn so that the present SMC Administration 
Clique would have the deciding say over the SMC student life matters. 
It is very reasonable that there are a good many St. Mary's YIP's who 
are horrified at the prospect of their innocent girls being corrupted by 
the irresponsible laxity of Notre Dame regulations. It may be no 
coincidence that Dear Sister Alma slashed away a parietals proposal 
just a few weeks before the merger impasse was announced. If she 
felt so strongly about the matter, wouldn't parietals be a bone of 
contention with Notre Dame? Would she not be scared that the ad­
ministration of Notre Dame could not maintain for long, a double 
standard in student privileges? And that the Pure and Holy Sisters 
must forever be allowed a veto? 
Suppose this was the central stumbling block with the merger. How 
can Kathy . . Barlow possibly maintain that Notre Dame was 
responsible after spending most of her term battling the oppression of 
various SMC regulations? It just doesn't follow logically. It should be 
noted here, that temporary halt in the merger and the subsequent 
announcement of the admission of Notre Dame women, probably 
guarantees that a St. Mary's Student Life Board would not exist if and 
when the merger takes place, SMC might have been able to get a 
double standard of rules with regards to men and women at a unified 
Notre Dame, but two different sets of rules for two different sets of 
Notre Dame women is ludicrous and unlikely (nowadays those two 
words are not exclusive), And it is almost certain that next year's 
Notre Dame women will not have to suffer the wisdom of Sister Mary 
HolyWater C.S.C.. 
There are many other issues involved in the merger. Each involve a 
value judgement before one can talk of right and wrong in the 
disagreement. If Miss Barlow does really believe all human 
disagreements are equally wrong without regard to the issues, then 
she should tell Missy first. 
THE OBSERVER 
INDENTURED SERVANTS 
Nite Editor: Anthony Abowd (the Boss) Ass't Nite Editor: Art Esposito, george lund (the bossed) Layout: Nic Catrambone (all mistakes), Jim McDermott 
(return performance) Headlines: Chris Sullivan (always great) Headliner: Dandy Don Biancamano (his usual self) Picture Screener: Bob Hughes (sees dots) Sports Nite Editor: Vic Dorr (Donaldson's lackey) Nite Controller: Joe Wilkowski (Hal's baby-sitter) 
Typists: rick smith (speeding along), Dan Rock, Diane Chermside, Mark Lammert, Lucy Rodarte 
... and the cast. of thousands: Ed Ellis, T.C. Treanor, GSC, A.T., Jeremiah Lutkus, Jim Donaldson, Margie Rudolph, John Abowd (who started it all), The Bullet, Mike Dent (on the phone), Bob Higgins News Editor: Jerry Lutkus 
Art Editor: Mike Murphy 
Features Editor: Marty Miller 
Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson 
SMC Editor: Anne Conway (in absentia) 
General Spukcufs: Donaldson and the van keys 
1. 
Free the Badin Five!!!!! l 

2. 
Go Margie Rudolph---Section A 1\ 

3. 
Hey Greg, when are we gonna have pin.,~? 

4. 
To Jrd floor Lemans; Lunches are the ~­greatest! (the boys) 




Tuesd~y. February 1, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page7 
I 
I 
I

Charlie's awful Trip I 
The following story is a reprint of a story that appeared in the National Observer on November 6, 1971. 
When Ed Stefankiewicz reported for the night shift in the lockLJp on the first floor of Baltimore police headquarters, he was advised to keep an eye on the stoned hippie who was talking to the walls in Cell 2. So when he noticed after midnight that Cell 2 was suddenly quiet, Officer Stefankiewicz opened the gate to the front row --where women, rum heads, and "mental cases" are usually kept --and walked the few steps to the second cell. In the shadows he saw a heavily bearded young man, naked, sitting on the bare, two-board bench that is the only furniture in each of the tiny, dismal cells. 
"You all right?" the turnkey asked. The naked man glanced at him, he recalls, but said nothing. 
The burly jailer returned to his desk, and busied himself with paper work for the next few minutes. Then, still wondering about the longhair's curious change of behavior, he decided to take another look. What he saw when he got to Cell 2 this time, Ed Stefankiewicz avows he will. never forget. This is how he tells it: 
The first thing that Stefankiewicz noticed was a pair of forearms jutting through the bars of the cell, the hands bloody. Behind the bars the young man, now wearing the hospital robe, stood in the shadows, stoically, almost spiritually. For an unreal moment, the hairy, robed ap­parition reminded Ed Stefankiewicz of a picture he had seen of the Apostle Paul. Yet there was a ghastly difference: Staring from this apostolic face were two mutilated, partially dislodged eyeballs. 
"I am God ... Let me touch and save you." the apparition pronounced. Only after Stefankiewicz extended his arm for the touch of salvation would the blinded youth let his jailers put a strait jacket on him for the trip to the hospital. 
Whether or not Charles Innes, in dark moml•nts of lonely anguish or unreality, tried to gouge his eyes is hard to deter­mine. The stark impression that Stefankiewicz retains is of torn eyeballs that apparently had been replaced in their sockets. only in front of the eyelids. A doctor who operated on Innes, but who asked not to be identified, says the eyes, though mutilated beyond repair, were never severed from the sockets. 
Fantastic Series of Events 
l<'ive months later, after extensive psychiatric observation in a state hospital, Charles can finally talk about his longest and--he swears--his last "trip." An in­telligent. articulate man of 25 from a distinguished Boston family, he recently described in a long interview the fantastic series of events that climaxed in Cell 2last he's buying. 
--A potent drug known as PCP, marketed 
legitimately as an anesthetic and analgesic for animals, is being produced by "underground chemists" nationwide and foisted upon unwitting young buyers as f'verything from an "aphrodisiac" to 
"mescaline." 

--There are widespread misconceptio.ns 
among police and hospital personnel about 
how to handle and treat people under the 
influence of psychedelic drugs. Standard 
procedures for "drug cases" can 
exacerbate reactions from some drugs, 
especially psychotic effects. 

The Drift Into Drugs . At Hopkins Charlie was an erratic student nominally majoring in philosophy but aud.iting more and more courses just because they interested him. He turned on to marijuana and radical politics, and gravitated into Baltimore's drug-oriented counterculture. He split to San Francisco for a spell, and returned to Baltimore last year considering himself a permanent member of what he calls the Third World. 
Last January Innes and Robert W. 
H.ettman were arrested in a Baltimore 
suburb and charged with possession of 
cocaine. On May 14 undercover narcotics 
detectives, acting on a paid informant's 
evidence, obtained warrants to search 
Innes' and Rettman's residences. 

There is little resemblance between 
Innes' and the police's version of events 
during the raid on his house. He says that 
the officers beat him; the police deny it. 
But this much is undisputed: When two 
plain-clothes men confronted Innes in the 
back yard that evening, he bolted into the 
house, grabbed a 35-mm. film can, and 
swallowed its contents. 

'What Did Charlie Eat?' Officer James Dugent recalls that all the way to the station Innes repeated slogans: ."PCP ... LSD ... Peace ... Right On ..." 
He was taken from the police station to 
Union Memorial Hospital, where his 
stomach was pumped. He was kept 
overnight, and released the next afternoon 
on $3,000 bail, charged with possession of 
marijuana. (Police say they found some 
residue in a home-made pipe in his kit­
chen. l The charge was later dismissed. 
What did Charlie eat'? 

To this day, Jim Dugent believes that it 
was a pot laced with LSD. He says he 
found in the film can "a residue of a green, 
grasslike substance" resembling 
marijuana, but that it wasn't enough to 
lest. In the police file is a lab analysis 
indicating traces of LSD in the gastric 
material pumped out of Innes at the 
hospital. The man who runs the laboratory 
says that this analysis is no more than 85 
pl'rcent certain. 

But Innes insists that he ingested neither 

pot nor LSD, but parsley cured with 
"PCPA" --enough "to get at least 30 
smokers high." 
He describes PCPA as a derivative of 
PCP, an animal tranquilizer, but with "an 
extra molecule" that nobody knows much 
about. Once he referred to PCPA's 
mysterious aphrodisiac quality; several 
times he described its ability to stimulate 
the senses: "It was like being born again . 
..like everything was new ... like your 
mind is completely open. . . I was 
energized." Other effects were "complete 
ego loss" and "intensive audio and visual 
hallucinations." 
Whatever it was, Charles Innes says the 
drug kept him stoned for five days. This 
defies belief, unless he reinforced it with 
something else later. But Dr. David 
Smith, founder and medical director of the 
Haight-Ashbury free clinic in San Fran­
cisco, offers a possible explanation: "It's 
highly unlikely that the drug reaction 
would have lasted that long. But a very 
intense delirious drug experience can 
precipitate a psychotic reaction." 
Compounding Treatment's Problems 
According to a new paper prepared for the Student Association for the Study of Hallucinogens, a private research com­pany in Beloit, Wis., treatment for adverse reactions to psychedelic drugs should include these essentials: "A warm and nonthreatening environment; one-to-one contact with the empathetic individual who would be capable of determining the deterioration of the individual's physical state; protection from self-harm; and the availability of hospital facilities." 
The problem of treating a spaced-out kid is compounded when nobody knows what he got loaded on. 
Officer Dugent still believes that Charlie Innes gobbled an overdose of LSD-laced pot. Charlie insists that it was p&rsley sprinkled with PCPA; that's what the dealer told him it was. But there is strong potent drug which produces disorientation in many species. It must not be used in animals other than primates." 
PCP's Bad Side Effects 
Studies in the 1950s produced some hope that phencyclidine could become an ef­fective anesthetic for humans. It depresses the central nervous system so that a wide-awake person does not feel pain. But in many people it also induced anxiety, depression, fear, excitability, and, in higher dosages, delusions, con­fusion and weird behavior. 
An extreme overdose of PCP con­
ceivably could provoke the side effects 
that Innes experienced. Smoked, the drug 
produces a marijuanalike high; ingested 
in larger doses, it can trigger extended 
delusions and paranoia much like an LSD 
trip. 
The most compelling evidence that PCP caused Innes' tragedy is in a 1959 paper written by a research team at Wayne State University that administered the drug to 102 patients. To some people who were given large doses, the scientists reported, "objects seemed to 'float away' and the subjects had the sensation that the body went numb and was displaced ... Many of our patients with strong religious backgrounds reported 'God was taking them away,' or that they were being 'carried up into the clouds.' " <Charlie's prattle in jail continuously mentioned God. l One woman in the Wayne State study stayed in a "prolonged state of confusional psychosis" for four days. 
Drug Has Many Guises 
Understandably, PCP has never become very popular in the underground drug market. But its illicit producers won't stop trying: They simply t4rn it out in a variety of forms and hawk it under different names. It first emerged in California in 1967 as the "Peace Pill." 
The next year it was peddled in capsules passed off as 'THC", which is thought to be the active ingredient in marijuana. In 1969 it reappeared as "Hog." 
Last year PCP was sprinkled on oregano and parsley and smoked as "angel dust" -­confounding police, who kept confiscating stuff that looked like pot but didn't pass the lab tests for marijuana. Most of the "mescaline" being peddled this year. according to students of the drug culture, is PCP or LSD in disguise. Furthermore, many chemists combine PCP with another substance without telling anybody. 
"These people have learned marketing techniques from their parents,'' San Francisco's Dr. Smith points out sar­castically. 
PCP, or "PCPA." hasn't been available in Baltimore, Charlie has been told, since he freaked out. Kids elsewhere are still l'ating and smoking it, though, whether they realize it or not. Many dealers and customers heard the macabre story of the hippie who gouged out his eyes, but counterculture sources say that not many believe it. The prevailing view is that the story was just another drug-scare hoax promulgated by the "narcs." 
That's one reason to hope that Charles Innes realizes one of his ambitions: to become a drug counselor. For anybody who looks into those dead eyes sees that Charlie has been where nobody wants to go. 

May 20. llf' says that he even remembers destroying his eyes --without feeling a thing. 
Still. when the inevitable question comes .. "Why did you do it'?" --Charlie's characteristic volubility wavers, as though he were confronted by a specter. lie becomes evasive, suspicious, agitated. Behind the red, shrunken, sightless eyes that the doctors couldn't repair must be l awful memories that, for now at least, l can't gain voice. 
Even if he could unlock all his im­pressions of that night, however, Charlie Innes probably couldn't answer some questions that his experience raises: What , provoked and prolonged such a bizarre : trip? How can a drug so warp a person's i. mind and deaden his senses that, days 1 after taking it, he could mutilate himself without feeling pain? Why would anybody .; take. or sell for human use, a drug with ::: such terrible potential'? Did the system of·· handling drug-abuse cases contribute to Charlie's tragedy'? 
The National Observer's inquiry intc Charles Innes' case produced some· chilling revelations: 
--The underground drug market is s< contaminated by ruthless profiteering deception, and product falsification that it's practically impossible nowadays fo1 .: Pven a veteran "head" to be sure of what eircumstantial evidence that both are mistaken. What ripped Charles Innes was almost certainly "angel dust" --PCP. 
There is widespread confusion about and PCPA in the drug culture. Despite what he knows about chemistry, Charlie seems to hold some of the common misconceptions, including the one that PCPA is a derivative of PCP. 
PCP: It Spells 'Danger' 
They are, in fact, totally different kinds of drugs. PCPA is a synthetic chemical compound that can reduce the level of serotonin in the human brain. It has been used experimentally to treat patients with tumors and some mental patients. But the most publicized PCPA research was done by a team of visiting Italian scientists in Washington, D.C., who noticed that it increased sexual activity in rats and other animals. This inspired some underground chemists to manufacture the stuff and 
found a market in the counterculture. 
PCP. on the other hand, is an anesthetic that in small doses can produce a 1.1oderate "high" but in drug darts can immobilize a rhino. The only phar­maceutical company licensed to market the drug --phencyclidine --restricts its ::;ales to veterinarians for experiments with animals. The label on each container reads: "Sernylan (the trade name) is a 

\ 
Page 8 THE OBSERt1ER. Tuesday, February 1, 1972 
North Vietnam reveals nine-point peace plan 
by Henry Giniger 


Draft lottery coming up 
lc) 1!172 New York Times 

Paris, Jan. 31--North Vietnam made public today the Nine-Point Peace Program it had secretly submitted to the United States last June and charged that Washington had not seriously considered it. 
Obviously annoyed at President Nixon's disclosure last week of the private meetings that had been held here, the North Vietnamese delegation ac­companied its own program with the version of the eight-point American peace plan it said it had received in October. 
Nguyen Thanh Le, the delegation's press spokesman, commented at a news conference that the differences between Hanoi's and Washington's plans were "fundamental--like night and day." 
The actions by the North Vietnamese today it appeared, did not provide any major disclosures of position. But they did remove what seemed to be the last vestiges of secrecy from the 12 meetings that henry A. Kissinger, President Nixon's special assistant for national security affairs, held with the North Vietnamese last year. 
The North Vietnamese disclosures were evidently an effort to counteract any propaganda gains the United States might have made by its revelations. 
In Washington the Nixon Ad­ministration, which in the course of its disclosures had refrained from publishing the North Vietnamese pl~m. withheld specific comment on Hanoi's decision to make it public. The White House said the North Vietnamese statements were under review and promised comment later. 
The North Vietnamese and the United States peace plans leave intact the two essential differences between the positions of the two countries. 
The private American one gives more detail on military withdrawal than Mr. Nixon announced in his tPlecast Jan. 25, but insists that such withdrawal come only after agreement in principle on a final settlement. The Communists want the United States to set a date for with­drawal without conditions. 
The United States document calls for a presidential election run by a commission with Communist participation. It would leave the present Saigon government intact until a month before the election. when President Nguyen Van Thieu and Vice President Tran Van Huong would resign. The Communists want the United States to abandon the Thieu group im­mediately and agree to its replacement by a tripartite coalition that would hold the election. 
At the news conference today Nguyen Than Le, the Hanoi press pokesman, in noting the gulf between the American and North Vietnamese positions, avoided a direct answer to the question whether North Vietnam had rejected the American initiative. 
"We criticize severely this maneuver by Nixon, who refuses to put an end to the war, to halt Vietnamization and give up his support of the Thieu Ad­ministration," Le said. He added thaI his delegation would con­tinue "to criticize severely." 
American official sources here refused to comment on the authenticitv of the version of the United States plan given out by Le. but no effort was made to cast doubt on the accuracy of the text. 
At the news conference the North Vietnamese also made public an exchange of messages concerning cancellation of the secret meeting Mr. Kissinger was to have had on Nov. 20 with Le Due Tho, a senior member of the North Vietnamese Com­munits Partv's Poiitburo. 

)ffic~a ~s prepare the barrel for Wednesday's draft lottery. Numbers of all ehgrble men born in 1953 will be randomly drawn. This is the first lotter_y since college deferments for the current freshmen class were 
not grven. 

l 
Tuesday, February L 1972 THE OBSERVER Page '1 l 
~ 
~------------------------------------~ 
Letters to the Editor 
Barkett's metaphor 
I<:ditor: 

Did John Barkett really say, as The Observer (January 26) quotes him as saying: 
" ... the group is'combing the 
Holy Cross priests' for a 
replacement, but will 'sweep 
the Country' for other can­
didates. 
" 'We're not leaving anyone 
out. We're shooting for the 
best. . .' " 
Well, as I always say, a man's 

speech should exceed his grasp ­or what's a metaphor? 
Sincerely, 
Richard Bizot 
For Gay Lib at ND 
Editor: 
To anyone who might be there to 
listen. 
Saturday night at Notre Dame. 

Surrounded by friends I am in a 
lonely mood. Why? I'm one of 
Notre Dame's silent minority ­
the bisexual or homosexual. 
After a month of being with old 
friends I'd forgotten what it was 
like -things are pretty much the 
same as before, except that the 
guy you loved no longer has an 
interest only for you. "Just 
friends." Hadn't you heard that 
from a home town honey (or 
two>? What a blow to the ego ... 
somehow a guy suffers more 
when a relationship ends. I guess 
because it usually takes him 
longer to become involved, but 
when he does he wants it to last. 
The atmosphere at du Lac is 

conducive to homosexuality. 
8,000 guys and 1,500 girls. Still I 
never thought I'd get hung up on 
another guy. Me? The image of 
the "Notre Dame man" turning 
into a "queer." The tragedy of it 
all. Yet for a few months I was 
the happiest person on earth. For 
the first time in 31;2 years here I 
knew what it was to be needed by 
someone; to experience 
Pmotional security, to discover 
physical love. Maybe that person 
will come back to me. I would 
like that very much since I still 
love him more than anything on 
this earth. 
I guess I'm not the fellow Fr. 

(;riffin wrote about. I never had 
much of a problem with self­
acceptance. That is the hardest 
thing to do and a lot of people 
couldn't cope with it. It is hard to 
reject what so many years of 
white middle class Catholic 
teaching has told you, or what 
your psychology or sociology 
teachers said. Yet there are 
"happy" homosexuals. I am 
relatively so, but I'm more of a 
bisexual right now, not having 
decided whether I want a full 
commitmt>nt to the gay world. I 
haven't had that much ex­
perience to make such a decision. 
I suppose the purpose of this 

missial is to point but once again 
the uptight situation at this 
school. It's rather pathetic 
because there are probably (at 
least l 500 gays enrolled here. 
Because of the natural op­pression and the Notre Dame image, none can step forth. Du Lac could probably benefit greatly from Gay Lib or some group that would enable gays-bi's to get together and talk without fears and humiliation, to allow eounseling for these who need it, to strive for some mode of ac­ceptance. It would be asking too much for Notre Dame to condone ·the gay life style, but it would be to its advantage to help evoke a 
better understanding. 
This letter probably won't be 

printed. Yet I wish that the t-ditors of the Observer would take just a little time to think about it. and perhaps pass the problem to someone who will do something about it. Maybe because it is a New Year something will be done. 
Just an aside to Gene Molinelli ­don't stereotype gays as limp­wristed, lisping individuals. Homosexuals are part of every profession, from law and medicine to the clergy. There are too many fine gay people who are being held back by propaganda making the homosexual out as little more than a promiscuous faggot. It just ain't so, brother! 
Whoever is reading this, thank­you for listening. And is it really important who you love -rather that you love, and by so doing are able to bring someone else the fulfillment he or she needs? 
Peace and Love, One Who Cares 
Change the H.L.B. 
Editor: 
In recent days conflicting comments concerning the Hall Life Board and its future have appeared in the Observer. Rev. Thomas Blantz, Vice-President for Student-Affairs, and others have spoken of it with tinges of optimism while the Observer has called it "another administrative abortion." As a student member on the board both last year and this year, I feel that I am in a position to help clear the air about it. 
Aside from cursorily approving hall constitutions, the Hall Life Board simply functions as a recommendatory body. It has no authority over anyone or anything; save whatever in­fluence its members can muster. Its effectiveness is comparable to the success which Father lies burgh's various civil rights suggestions have had with Richard Nixon. 
Yet its future as an advisory body might be a bright one. The administration obviously wants it to become a viable body. Otherwise it would not have been 
formed.  
But  an  apparent  ad­ 
ministrative  oversight  has  
contributed  to  its  present  inef­ 

fectiveness. Since the board was appointed at the end of the first semester. it will function for only a part of the second semester. With less than one semester to work. how can any board or 
...more of the same 
organization hope to have valuable input into hall life? 
At present the Hall Life Board is a useless board. Unless the administration more clearly defines its responsibilities and allows it to operate longer within the school year, it will continue to function unnecessarily. 
Carl Ellison 
Hall Life Board Member 

Chides law editorial 
EDITOR: 

The lead editorial in your Friday edition, calling the recently announced expansion of the Law School building an "ideal plan" and chiding the Student Bar Association for opposing it, warrants a response from those who are better informed about the situation at the Law School and in legal education generally. The piece is grossly over­simplistic in its analysis of the factors involved in the decision to expand. Moreover, it gives the misleading impression that the move is opposed only by a hand­ful of petular:tt students and that 
no sound reasons exist for their attitude. 
Honest and sincere differences in viewpoint exist about whether the planned expansion will enable the Law School to continue to progress, or whether instead it will settle into a rather traditional and stereotyped niche as a good, smaller law school as a result. Indeed what, this appears to signal, in many respects, is a turning back to an earlier era in the Law School's history. Thus, a considerable number of the Law School faculty share the pessimistic view on this question aptly expressed by Tim Hartzer, the SBA president. None can reasonably disagree with the objectives of continuing im­provement in students and faculty on which you place great emphasis (through your suggestion that reducing enrollment is the best way of achieving top-quality students is surely a redyctui ad absyrdan; a law school needs a reasonably sized student body to exist at all-­to attract that sort of faculty that you correctly urge as desirable, to provide diverse course of­ferings in a time of great legal ehange, to produce the sub­stantial sort of institutional input without which the whole effort is not worthwhile, etc.). Disagreement exists as to whether we can do what we must do to make the Law School an 



JESUS 
is lord...And It MakesADifference.. Really There Is A New life For You. There Is Power In living 
As A Christian. Come And See ..... Make A 
Jesus Retreat 
24 Hrs. Sat. Feb. 5 & 6 For Further Information Call Joel 3840 Days Or 234-3529 Evenings Sponsored By True House ...A Charismatic Christian Community At Notre Dame 
increasingly better institution-­one that will attract that sort of student and teacher--in an ex­panded physical facility. 
In view of the atrocious library and study space space situation that currently exists, to which Dean Shaffer repeatedly refers. expansion of the present building is better than doing nothing. And the saving of a $200 thousand government grant is good economics in a time of financial cns1s in private higher education. But some of us don't think that the planned expansion can realistically be regarded as a ten-year program, as it has been labelled. 
Our opposition, then, is to the probable long-range implications of the planned expansion, which some of us regard as unfortunate and undesirable. That is what makes the announced plan something less than "ideal". A "reputation for excellence", to which you also refer, is not of great intrinsic value except as a aid in recruiting the best students and faculty and in placing graduates in the best jobs possible. True excellence in an academic institution, as distinguished from a reputation therefor, is the overriding aim toward which we must strive; the result of this sort of excellence is the best legal education that can humanly be provided. 
Your support of Dean Shaffer; as distinguished from your ap­proval of the planned expansion, cannot be disputed. He inherited, as the new Dean, an extremely difficult situation and he has attempted to steer a course that he sees as providing a way out, al least temporarily. The real failing--if indeed there is one at all--lies with a University un­willing to put its wholehearted support behind the Law School. The question is really one of will; if those making decisions in these matters were as devoted as they say to the best interests of the Law School. they would find a say to do what had been planned (or a reasonable substitute therefor). If a new physical facility was a sound concept in 1969, it is no less sound now. Perhaps the analogy is a bit forced, but for "one, brief, shining moment" Notre Dame 
had  the  opportunity  to  move  
ahead  in  the  field  of  legal  
education  at  an  almost  

breathtaking pace. That chance, some of us think, is needlessly being lost, and the whole University community shall be the poorer for it. 
Francis X. Beytagh 
Professor OF' Law 

School spirit? 
Editor: 
Once again, the student body, Monday night, found the necessity to resort to vulgarity, obscenity, and the throwing of objects such as hot dogs, banana peels, cookies, etc. at the visiting team, their coaches, and the refs to express themselves. 
Whether it was a majority or minority of the students, the fact remains that the over-all conduct of the students, as viewed by all, that is, the verbal abuse and various hand gestures was im­mature and childish, a far cry from the school spirit and in­tellectual institution which Notre Dame is so noted for. Such ac­tions can only damage, harm, or insult the reputation of the university, the student body, and its team in the eyes of the visiting athletes and their supporters, as well as, general spectators. Past and present athletes can readily attest to this fact, especially, if they, themselves, have been the subject of such "school spirit." 
It is sad, as well as maddening, to realize that such behavior is the end-product solely because the Fighting Irish's opponets are undefeated, nationally ranked, or wear flashy uniforms, or that one of their players is ugly or freaky looking, or that fouls are at­tributed to our players. It makes no difference whether they were just or not. Everyone knows that the referees are either blind morons and-or being paid off by the opposing team, whichever team that is. The list is endless. Perhaps such notables as "up yours," "eat me," "you s--t, ref," or "you're f--ked" should replace or be incorporated into the Fight 
song. 
Let's not be hypocrites, hiding 
behind good sportsmanship and 
school spirit labels when actually 
vulgarity, obscenity, etc. is the 
name of the game. The decision 
is ours, individually and 
collectively, as members of the 
Notre Dame student body. 
Hobert Keenan 
1 Lyons 

Student Union Social Commission presents 

RICHIE HAVENS 
WITH SPECIAL GUESTS 
THE WINTER CONSORT 
Sunday -Feb. 13th 7:30 p.m. Ticket Prices $4.50, $3.50, $2.50 
Ticket Sales Begin 7:00p.m. the Fiesta lounge 
LaFortune Student Center 
Page 10 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, February 1, 1972 
Nobles eniertain Irish ice fans 
by Jim Donaldson At 5'9" and 160 pounds, John Noble looks like just another guy on campus. But when he skates around the ACC ice rink for the Notre Dame hockey team, he stands out in the crowd. Noble came to Notre Dame from St. Michael's College Prep, in Toronto, where he had been unanimously selected to the Toronto Metropolitan Junior B all-star team, and quickly established his reputation as a first-rate hockey player. As a freshman in the 1969-70 season, Noble led the Irish in scoring, totaling 59 points on 24 goals and 35 assists, and he was voted Notre Dame's Most Valuable Player by his team­mates. His 35 assists and 59 points also established team season records. Last year, Noble slipped to 43 points 06 goals, 27 assists) but still was Notre Dame's number one point producer. At present Noble trails linemate, and former teammate at St. Mike's, Paul Regan, in the Irish point parade with eight goals and 28 assists, yet he isn't satisfied with his scoring statistics. "I really don't feel that I'm scoring that well, "Noble says. "I'm not disappointed in my goal total. Picking up a point for a point for a second assist isn't important. Only when you have a direct hand in a scoring play do you get some satisfaction." Coach "Lefty" Smith had nothing but praise for Noble, however, when asked how he'd evaluate his junior center. "John's a heady player who sets things up well," Smith com­ments. "He's a good stickhan­dler, with a hard shot. He has good athletic sense and great balance." "John's the thermostat for the line he's on." Smith says. "When he pushed, his whole line goes." Noble doesn't mind "pushing" at all. "Everyone likes scoring," he says, "but the thing I enjoy most in hockey is having to work to set up a scoring play -having to forecheck, dig and make a good pass to score." He feels the same way about each game, too. The tougher· the victory, the more Noble savors it. 
"An  easy  game  isn't  as  en­ 
joyable  as  a  hard  one,"  he  
remarks.  

At times this season, the Irish have been plagued by in­consistency. Noble is one of of the team's steadier performers, 
as evidenced by his school record of scoring a point in 23 con­secutive games from January, '70 to January, '71, but he, too, isn't always at the top of his game. 
"We look good on a particular weekend, Noble explains, "and then we figure it'll all be downhill from here. Then, the next weekend, we're jarred back to reality. We tend to dwell on past games and that's not good." 
"We haven't been in the WCHA long enough to realize that we can't react that way," he con­tinues. "We have to learn to concentrate on the team we're playing. We have to forget the past and future and keep in mind the task at hand." 
Noble and the Irish face a difficult challenge that will require all of their attention this week when the Bulldogs of the University of Minnesota at Duluth invade the Convo for a pair of games Tuesday and .. Wednesday. The series is worth eight title points and, since both clubs are battling for high playoff position, there should be plenty of hard hitting and fast skating. 

"I'm not opposed to being hit," Noble says. 
"It wakes you up and helps you get in the game.. I don't like a series with no contact." 
And the fact that there's a a valuable playoff position at stake ~eightens Noble's anticipation about the UM-D series. "I like to play best in games where there's a challenge, something to gain," he says. 
There's plenty for the Irish to gain in their series with the 
Bulldogs, so John Noble will undoubtedly show up more than ready to play. If his teammates do likewise, Notre Dame has a good chance to climb in the WCHA standings. 
by PPggy Lawlor For the past couple of years, John Noble has been entertaining Notre Dame hOckey fans with his stick handling and scoring, but this season, he's not the only Noble who's brightening up the atmosphere around the ACC rink. His wife Marcia has now joined in 
as combination cheerleader and band, playing the organ at the icers' home games. 
Coach "Lefty" Smith was aware that occasional dead spots occurred during games, especially between periods, and was anxious not to let this discourage many potential hockey fans from coming to cheer on his team. So he asked 


.John Nobll' on thl' ice. 
Coach Wilson honored 
Veteran Notre Dame cross title (1957) while placing third on 
couuntry coach Alex Wilson has two other occasions been named 1971 Coach of the The Irish, iil the same 22 year Year by the NCAA Cross Country time period, have finished first or Coaches Association. second 12 times in the Central 
Wilson, the Notre Dame cross Collegiate finals, winning six country and track coach for the titles; finished first or second six past 22 years, will be honored by of the 16 years they have com­the coaches association during peted in the ICAAA cham­
the 1972 NCAA Indoor Track pionships, winning one title, and Championships in Detroit, March have won the state title in 10 of 22 10-11. attempts. 
During the last 22 years, Wilson. a member of the Wilson's harriers have finished in Canadian Olympic teams in the top 10 in the NCAA finals 11 1928and 1932, is a 1932 graduate of times, winning one national the University of Notre Dame. 
Mardi Gras "Destruction Party'' 
(for all who work on Mardi Gras Construction) 
Tues. Nite 10:00 

Senior Bar 
All SMC Girls Invited 

Beer Free! 
Marcia to use her musical talents to perk things up and the ice rink has been a lot more lively this winter 
Marcia has put together her own routine for the games, and now not only entertains the fans, but prompts cheers and makes an occasional "editorial" comment about the officials' calls---or lack of them. If Marcia thinks the men in black and white have missed a penalty call (on the opponent, of course> she plays a few bars of "Three Blind Mice" to let them know her opinion. 
Officials aren't the only victims of Marcia's musical barbs. An opposing team, after being charged with a penalty, is sure to hear the "Dum da dum dum" of the "Dragnet" theme to warn of an upcoming Notre Dame power play, and admonish the offending player for hi~ indiscretion. 
Marcia is impressed that "the people are gradually becoming excited fans. More and more interest is being generated in hockey here at Notre Dame, which is good since it is a new sport to many." It's not new to Marcia, however. 
She has been involved with hockey for many years. She recalls sitting at outdoor prac­tices near her home in Chicago, watching intently, though freezing. "My brother plays hockey, and my relatives have been spectators for years." 
Now closer to the sport because of John's place on the Notre Dame team, she finds herself even more wrapped up in the games. 
"It's hard not to become emotionally involved, expecially when John is on the ice. I rarely get upset, though. Let's just say I'm concerned that he does well." 
Both John and Marcia "do well" and make hockey nights at the Convo most enjoyable for Irish fans. 

TABORN'S TENNESSEE SOUTHERN BBQ 
(Newly Opened) 
Visit Us To Pick Up 
The Most Delicious 
Ribs, Pork, 
Chicken, Beef, And Roundhouse You've Ever Eaten. Right Next To 
Simeris (415lh N.HiiiSt.) South Bend 
Hrs. Tue. -Thurs. 6-llPM 
Fri. 6PM -3:30AM 
Sat. 3:00PM-3:30AM 
Sun. 2PM -6PM 
Closed On Mondays
, 



.r-------------------------------------------------------------------­
Tuesday, February 1, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 11 
leers at home In crucial series 
by Jim Donaldson 
Sports Editor 

The Fighting Irish hockey tean finds itself in yet another crucial series tonight and tomorrow night at the ACC, meeting Min­nesota-Duluth in a two-game set worth eight title points. 
"There are no two ways about it," coach "Lefty" Smith remarked yesterday. "This is an important series for us. There are eight big points up for grabs. If Minnesota-Duluth can win two games, it'll put them in con­tention for the title. If we win 
two, we can move into the first division." Notre Dame, despite dropping a pair of games on home ice to 
· 

I I d 1
eague ea ing Wisconsm ast
weekend, remained in fifth place
in the WCHA with a _9 record
7 

and with 22 title points, four behind Minnesota-Duluth, which is 10-8 in the conference. 
When coach Smith speaks about the "first division", he's referring to the first four teams, rather than the top five in the ten team loop, because theFirstfour 
Vic Dorr================>=====================================================================================:.,~================; 
What would you have done ? 
The reaction to Digger Phelps' mid-game stall in Saturday's contest against the UCLA Bruins has not been good. And from the viewpoint of the fans, it's easy to see why. 
It was apparent last spring that it was going to be a rough year for the ND cagers, and the students who paid for season tickets realized this--most of them did, anyway. But one glance at the Irish home schedule was still enough to sway even the cynics. 
After all, what basketball fan wouldn't shell out ten dollars for the chance to see teams like UCLA, Marguette, Villanova, and Duquesne during the span of one season? 
Saturday afternoon, against UCLA, the bargain seemed to be glowing at its brightest. Here was a chance to watch the nation's defending champions--the defending champions for the past five years--in action. It made little difference that the Bruins had smashed the Irish by 58 points during a game earlier in the season. It made little difference that they were favored by nearly as many the second time. 
What mattered was that this was UCLA. And that 11,000 fans in the· Convocation Center and countless many on national TV had a chance to watch them do their thing for the 16th time in a row. 
But the fans--all of the fans--were disappointed. It was a game for the first ten minutes, but when the Bruins started to explode Digger quickly slammed a lid on the game. He stalled for six and one-half minutes of the first half and ten minutes of the second half, and the 57-32 final score was indicative of this. 
Among the fans, the complaints about Digger's strategy were two­fold. Some were upset because he didn't go with a stall the entire game, and even Bruin coach John Wooden had to wonder about this: 
"I thought Notre Dame's chances might be enhanced when they w£>nt with the stall," said Wooden, "but I was surprised that Phelps waitt-d so long." If John Wooden was surprised, then so were many of the viewers of Saturday's game. 
There is another opinion, too. The opinion that Phelps shouldn't have stalled at all--that he should have played run-and-gun with the Bruins for the whole game ... thus enabling at least one of the teams on the floor to perform to its full capacity. 
Yes. many people were disappointed by Digger's strategy against the UCLAns. They had a right to be. But they should also look at the game from Digger's point of view. 
lmm(•diately after the game, Digger sat in the training cubicle of the ND locker room. He had long since removed his suit coat, and his n£>rves wpre obviously on edge. 
"Wl'll," he replied to a questioner, "what would you have done? We played them once before out in Los Angeles and got beat by 58 points. I wasn't going to let that happen again." 
But ther£> was more to it than that. When things started to get out of hand. Digger admittedly began playing to avoid another humiliation. But h£> was also playing for the win, and when the Bruins climbed into a 12-point lead late in the first half, the stall seemed to be the best way to get it. 
"'W£> wanted to contain them for 10 or 15 minutes," said Phhelps, "and thm go all out to win it." The containment part worked per­fpctJy, but when the Irish went all out, so did the Bruins. They out­scored Notre Dame 12-0 during one span of nearly five minutes in the spcond half. and made equally easy work of both halves of the Irish stall-and-go strategy. 
The game was a demonstration, all right, but not like any demon­stration the fans had expected. Notre Dame had little chance when Digger elected to go with the stall, but they would have had no chance at all if they had gotten involved in an endurance contest with the Bruins. 
So Digger stalled. UCLA handled his stall with as much poise as they had when they handled his regular game, but they did not finishers at the end of the regular season will be able to play the first series of post-season playoffs on their home ice. And, although Notre Dame's chances of finishing first are practically nonexistent, they are very much involved in the scramble for the top playoff positions. 
The Irish weren't happy about their double loss to Wisconsin Friday and Saturday nights. But they're aware that they've got to bounce back and be at their best for Minnesota-Duluth. 
"It was a very disappointing to 
come out of the Wisconsin series with two losses," coach Smith commented. "We played pretty 
good hockey in four of the six 
periods last eeekend, and had one 
fair period, and one bad one. But when you're playing a cham­pionship club, you can't afford to ~:~~,them any openings. And we 
"I was impressed with the way the kids pushed themselves, though," Smith continued. "When we went down three goals in the first period Saturday I was .... worried that they might not come back. I was impressed that they 
I
did and, if their goalie, <Dan Perkins), didn't have such a good night, we might have won." 
Defeating the Bulldogs from Minnesota-Duluth doesn't promise to be a much easier task for the Irish, particularly since the games are so important to both clubs. 
UM-D is led by All-American junior winger, Walt Ledingham, who earned national acclaim a year ago by leading the Bulldogs in scoring, picking up 26 goals and 28 assists for 54 points. Smith ~ails Ledingham "a sure-fire NHL prospect." 

In liM-D's 18 WCHA games to date, Ledingham has scored 14 goals and been credited with 15 assists. His tootal of 29 points places him among the league's 
•
top scorers. 

Irish wing Ian Williams 
Cagers tangle at MSU 
by Eric Kinkopf The Notre Dame basketball team takes on the Michigan State Spartans at East Lansing tonight at 8 o'clock. At first glance it would seem that the Irish are finally back in their own class after taking on Marquette, Illinois and UCLA last week. But any Notre Dame team playing at MSU can forget about strengths, weaknesses and relative comparisons and just be ready for an all-out dogfight. When it comes down to MSU versus ND, you can throw all the 
stats right out the window, spot the home team 15 points, pat the visitors on the back and wish em' good luck. 
And the Irish will need a solid 40 minute performance as well as a little help from lady luck to defeat the Spartans on their home ground. 
Even without the home court advantage, the Spartans offer a formidable barrier to Irish hopes of getting back on the winning track. 
Coach Gus Ganakas has nine lettermen returning from a 10-14 season a year ago. Included in those returnees is 6-7 junior Badgers, may also have to ride the bench this week. 
Besides Tomasoni and Curry, the rest of the Irish are healthy and anxious to atone for their losses last weekend. 
Student tickets will again be available for $1 for both the Tuesday and Wednesday night games. Faceoff time both nights is 7:45. 
pivotman Billy Kilgore who averages 14.2 points per game for the Spartans a year ago. 
Kilgore has held that mark this year, averaging 14.1 points a game and collaring an average of 
11.1 rebounds a game. 
But the big gun for the Spartans is soph guard Mike Robinson who leads the MSU scoring parade with an average of 20.0 points per 

-
game. 
When Rudy Benjamin graduated last year (21.2 points per game) Ganakas looked to be hard pressed for a scorer to pick up the slack in Benjamin's ab­sence. 
But Robinson, who averaged 
33.8 points per game as a fresh­man has picked up where Rudy left off. 
Brian Breslin, a 6-5 junior forward and a 9.5 scoring average, Allen Smith, a 6-7 junior forward and a 8.7 average and Pat Miller, a 6-2 guard averaging 
8.4 points per game, round out the MSU line-up. 
The Spartans enter the contest with a 8-6 record that includes victories over Adolf Rupp's Kentucky Wildcats at Kentucky, and Indiana last Saturday. 
The Irish come into the game with a 3-11 won-lost mark, following their loss to UCLA Saturday. 
Gary Novak still leads the Irish scorers with a 19 point average, followed by Tom O'Mara with a 
12.9 points per game average. 
Digger is once again expected to go with the starting line-up of 

-
Novak, O'Mara, Willie Town­send, Chris Stevens and John Egart . 
The Irish hold the edge in the all-time series with MSU 57-32. Johnny Dee's boys won last year at the Convo 104-80. 

Sophomore winger Pat Boutette, who tallied 17 goals last season, second only to Led­dingham, is also a scoring threat. 
He has 10 goals and 14 assists~in WCHA games this year. 
The Bulldogs have also been getting good goaltending in the '71-'72 campaign from sophomore Jerome Mrazek and freshman Ken Turko. 
The Irish may not be at full strength for tonight's key en­counter with the Bulldogs. Dick Tomasoni, Notre Dame's stan­dout goalie, suffered a concussion in Friday's game against Wisconsin and is a question mark for the UM-D series. IfTomasoni is unable to play, Smith will divide the goaltending duties between soph Mark Kronholm and junior Chris Cathcart. 
Defenseman Steve Curry, who hurt a shoulder against the 

·~ 
., utn 
humiliate the Irish. 
After the game the ND round­

The Irish, for their part, were never really in the game after the first 
bailers will return to the Convo to 

-
ten minutes. Phelps' strategy did not spring an upset. It did not even 
Nil's O'Mal"3 and Novak team up on defense prepare for the upcoming game
come close, and it irritated plenty of basketball fans. But the stall aid 
with the Mountaineers of West

Virginia Thursday night. 

Page 12 THE OBSERVER Tuesday, February l, 1972 





Killings awaken Ulster terror 
-
-
-

The anger of the Roman Catholics was mingled with the fears of moderates. David Bleakley, the respected former community relations director in Northern Ireland, warned of the dangers of civil war. "It is now clear we are well and truly over the brink," he said. "If the tragedy of Derry does not bring us to our senses, nothing will. Unless we now make a united effort to save the province, we are all going to be destroyed together." 
Protests took place across the six counties of Northern Ireland, whree two-thirds of the population is Protestant. It was at the demand of this Protestant majority that Ireland was divided in 1921. They feared 
Warrant issued for Irving's arrest 
by Clyde H. Farnsworth 
(Cl 1!172 New York Times 
Zurich, Switzerland, Jan. 31 ­District Attorney Peter Veleff of Zurich Canton said tonight that the Swiss police had issued warrants for the arrest of Clifford Irving, the writer, and his wife in the dispute over an alleged autobiography of Howard H. Hughes. the billionaire. 
He said the charges, which arose from a complaint filed 11 days ago by McGraw-Hill Inc., the publishing company, against "unknown persons," were "urgent grounds for suspicion of fraud, falsification of official documents and instigation of these crimes." 
The prosecutor said that the police had impounded 1.7 million Swiss francs, about $445,000, from an account at the Swiss Bank Corporation under the name of Hanna Rosenkranz, which he said was a pseudonym used by Mrs. Irving. 

Father Toohey urges Alumni Board to support students 
Director of Campus Ministry Fr. William A. Toohey em­phasixed the need of greater concern for the welfare of the student body in his report to the Alumni Board this weekend. The report was presented in an at­tempt to convince the Alumni of the need for support of student oriented programs. 
According to Toohey, the ad­mittance of women to Notre Dame will present new problems in student affairs which will need attention from qualified per­sonal. In addition, Toohey em­phasized the need for a "serious financial commitment" on the part of the alumni to support the "creative growth" of Notre Dame students. 
Toohey asserted that the university was primarily an institution of higher learning, and while research is important, the alumni should not loose sight of the university's foremost pur­pose. 
,-:::·:t~ 

F,.~oohey 
"'"" the@ 
board to support students. 
In response, the Alumni Board recognized the need for improved university-student relations, as well as up-dated student services. 
The Board attested that the Campus Ministry has tip priority in its considerations. 

Friday, Feb 4 Mardi Gras Begins 
With The 
Kick -Off Party (Featuring The Red Garter Band) $5.00 per couple 
Indiana National Guard Armory 
Irving has said he collaborated with Highes in compiling the alleged autobiography, but a voice identified as that of Hughes has told reporters in a telephone interview that the billionaire never met the writer. 
Irving said that his wife, using the name Helga Hughes, deposited the money in a Swiss bank account and then tran­sferred it to another bank at the request of Hughes. 
The Zurich prosecutor said today that no request for the extradition of Mr. and Mrs. Irving had been transmitted to the United States authorities. He added that if the Irvings had come to Zurich last week. they would have been arrested. 
Cliff's Notes are great any time you 
need help in literature' We 
recommend buying early so that 
you can use them as you study 
the assigned play or novel and as 
a helpful review pnor to exams. 
Get the Cliff's Notes you need 
today. You'll see why they're the 
preferred study aid of millions of 
students nat1onw1de (P S.) If your 
dealer's out of a t1tle, he can get 
another fast with Cliff's "Hot Lme". 
~ 

LC.Iifts~•m~ 
Nearly 200 !Illes-always available wherever books are sold. 
Only Sl each 
being engulfed by the over­whelming Catholic majority of the South. 
Since the division, Ulster· has been governed by the dominant Protestant Unionist Party, basically the local conservatives. 
In recent years, the Catholic minority has sought to crack the established structure and pressure the government for reform. 
The Catholics, however, have grown disenchanted and alienated from the government, which has used the British army to maintain order and introduced an "Internment without trials policy to weed out terrorists." The minority insists that in­ternment is merely an anti­Catholic measure that avoids Protestant terrorists. 
With the province tense and frightened today, more that 1,000 college students from Queens University marched near their campus to protest yesterday's army action. At the same time sit-down protests, work stop­pages and brief demonstratoons took plaice in Omagh, Armagh, Strabane and other cities . 
In Londonderry, a bout 400 teachers from Roman Catholic secondary and primary schools decided to strike for three days. The tone of their statement un­derscored the anger of the Cathoilics here, including teachers and clergymen. A statement on behalf of the teachers simply said: "Eye witness accounts from teachers present refute utterly the blatant lies of the British army." 
Charles Irving who claims to be the author of an autobiography of Howard Hughes is wanted for fraud. 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
POETRY WANTED tor An­thology. Include stamped en­velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California, 90021. 
STUDENTS WANTED for small technical school. Curriculum ECPD accredited. Major in 9 fields of drafting, 2 fields of Civil and Electronics. A.S. Degree. 
Industry recruits on our campus. Transfers accepted February 14th through 21st. Institute of Drafting and Technology, Morrison, 
Illinois, 61270. 
Three delicious chicks need ride from and back to Cincinnati area during Mardi Gras Feb. 11·13. Desperate. Any information call Steve 1027. Wilt pay all expenses. 
PERSONALS 
Beep, Beep·­Happy Birthday Mom. Your loving daughters 
Friends are friends, 
Pals are pals, 
but buddies sleep together. 
A.W.W: The candle is at the window. 
FOR SALE 
Parts and Accessories for lm· ported cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 272-7187. 
'65 Pontiac Catalina, 383·V8, Automatic, power steering, radio, inspected. $350. Call 283-1933. 
AKC old english sheepdog pup­pies, 2 lett, male.female, champion sire and dame, 288·9943. 
1960 Chev. 2 Door, Good running 
condition.  $150.00  Call  Olga  
Parker, accounting office.  283  
7211.  

NOTICES 
OVERSEAS JOBS FOR STUDENTS Australia, Europe, S. America, Africa, Etc. All professions and occupations, $700 to $3,000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free in· formation · Write, Jobs Overseas, Dept. F2, Box 15071, San Diego, CA 92115. 
Need typing done??? Wilt do typing tor reasonable rates and on short notice .. don't waste time pecking away · Call Chip at 8256. 
NOT AVAILABLE NEW? TRY US FOR A RECYCLED BOOK. PANDORA'S BOOKS. NOON MIDNIGHT. 233-2342. 
DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and Within Europe. Leave anytime from NY·Chicago. Flight Center 227 North Randall, Madison, WI 53706 (608) 263·3131. 
ROME, ITALY, Summer Program. Stimulating curriculum. Outstanding faculty. Etruscan Archeology Program. Transferable credits June l2.July 
19. $760. Write: Trinity College . Rome Campus Trinity College Hartford, Connecticut 06106. 
------·--------Worch ltta 'ltl,, 3d,, ·Ida Sda 1 10 .6~ .95 1.15 1.35 l.SS It 15 1.00 1.50 1.85 7.10 2.40 16 70 t.JO 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 )I 1~ 1.70 7.~5 3.20 3.85 4.45 76 30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 Jt 35 7.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36 40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 1145 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 16 50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 







