


i
,
On The Inside 
Viewpoint CAP ...pages 
1 
... page 9 

1
Circus maximus 
Sports ... pages 11 and 12 
serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Tuesday May 2, 1972Vol. VI No .. 121 

Vote is today
Ohio primary: a tight race 
by Douglas E. Kneeland 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

Columbus, Ohio, May l--As the two leadi~g contenders in tomorrow's Ohio Democratic Presidential Primary worked hard today to pry out the last possible vote, their campaign strategists fretted over what they agreed had become an increasingly tight race. 
In their late-hour efforts, Senators Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota and George McGove~n 
·of South Dakota continued to devote most of the1r dwindling time to courting the blue-collar workers who make up much of the Democratic vote in the heavily industrialized Northern part of the state. 
The importance and closeness of the Ohio Primary, one of the four scheduled tomorrow, seemed apparent in Humphrey's decision to spend the !;lay here rather than split the time with Indiana. 
The Minnesotan is in a head-to-head race with Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama, who is not on the Ohio ballot, in Indiana's election tomorrow. other primaries are to be held in 
The Ohio primary enters its final day with Sen. ... closely with Sen. Humphrey in this important
Alabama and Washington, D.C. 
1
McGovern battling... contest. 
Humphrey camp grim Under questioning, McAlister conceded that he In a campaign in which he has concentrated on thought McGovern could win. wooing workers and blacks, among both of whom 
Jesse T. George, Humphrey's Ohio campaign Informal surveys in various parts of the state Humphrey is believed to be strong, McGovern coordinator, spoke today of the race here against have shown in recent days what appears to be has not visited a single college campus, where McGovern: strong evidence of rising support for McGovern. much of his support is supposed to lie. 
"It's going to be very, very close" I think Moreover, it is generally agreed that his At stake in tomorrow's election are 153 we're going to win the at-large race and most of campaign organization, using the intensive delegates to the Democratic National Con­the delegates, but I'm more worried than I was canvassing techniques that have become its vention at Miami Beach next July. Thirty-eight last week." trademark, is the best in the state. delegates will be chosen at-large. The rest are 
Ohio, coming only a week after the crucial Campaigning with Humphrey today through apportioned among the 23 Congressional primaries in Massachusetts and Pennsylvania, Toledo, Canton and Cleveland was Vrnak W. districts. While there is no Presidential has been more of a sprint for the candidates than King, head of the State Labor Federation, which preference vote as such, the candidates' names some of the earlier elections. has nearly a million members. appear above their delegate lists and the at-large 
Neither McGovern nor Humphrey was able to King, who is on Senator Humphrey's at-large winner will be considered to have carried the 
give much time to Ohio until the last few days. delegate slate, has been one of the Minnesotan's popular vote. McGovern, in fact, did not decide to make an all­leading supporters. out effort here until a week or more after he won In an interview today in Cleveland, King Jackson, McCarthy in 
the Wisconsin primary, on April 4. predicted that Humphrey would win in Ohio. But After he defeated Sen. Edmund S. Muskie declaring he thought McGovern was gaining, he decisively in Massachusetts and Humphrey did said, "I'm glad the election is tomorrow." Sen. Henry M. Jackson of Washington, who is 
the same in Pennsylvania, leading the Maine considered by most to be trailing badly here, is Senator to withdraw from active campaigning, Both tour state also on the ballot. Although he had campaigned the Ohio primary became essentially a two-man almost constantly in the state since April 14, he struggle -Humphrey carried his campaign today to a returned to Washington, D.C. today. He is ex­
shipyard in Toledo, where he accused the Nixon pected to come back tomorrow night.McGovern support .up Administration of not having do/J.... enough for the Former Sen. Eugene J. McCarthy of Min­Maritime industry. e nesota has an at-large delegate slate and several 
He then appeared at a rally at a courthouse in district slates, but has not campaigned.
With little time to win over the voters in Ohio, Canton and did a handshaking stint outside a The polls will open at 6:30a.m. and close at McGovern's campaign aides here have been Cleveland steel plant. 6:30p.m., returns are expected to be extremelydeclaring that they did not think they would be However, a heavy rain dampened what was to slow. Because of the large number of names on able to overtake Humphrey. have been a major rally in downtown the delegate list, voting machines could not be 
Today, however, Robert R. McAlister, the Cleveland's (CPAS) public square. used. Columbus lawyer who had headed the South McGovern toured plants in Toledo and President Nixon is virtually unopposed in the Dakotan's effort, was close to being optimistic. Cleveland, held a rally in downtown Cincinnati, Republican Primary and seems assured of the 
"It's going to be extremely close," he said, visited a shopping center in Dayton and then support of the 56 convention delegates and 56 "extremely close." returned to Cleveland. alternates to be selected. 
North Vietnam offensive continues strong 
by Henry S. Bradsher war there, although a month early. stimuiate "popular uprisings" in 
(c) 1972 Washington Star But military planners in Saigon attempt to give some support to its 
Saigon, May 1--Amid signs that are considering the possibility that assertion that the offensive has North Vietnamese troops might be the divisions might be added to public backing. It has lacked any preparing to strike at Saigon, some Hanoi's attempt to dislodge public support in its first month. experts here are becoming con­President Nguyen Van Thieu and Intelligence reports, both vinced the Communists can keep control South Vietnam. Some prisoner interrogations and their offensive going indefinitely. intelligence men are skeptical of •captured documents, point toward 
Hanoi's supply system is con­this however. a plan to have sabotage and tinuing to pump into the offensive The offensive now has the South terrorism squads strike into more ammunition, fuel and men -­Vietnamese army in difficult Saigon. some 20,000 more men down the Ho situations on five fronts: Details ot the plan have not been Chi Minh trail in April in addition They are Quangri-Hue in the made public. South Vietnamese to units coming acoss the so-called North, Kontum in the Central authorities have tightened their 
demiliturized zone. Lands, Binhdinh along the Central precautions against such dangers. This logisticla effort makes Coast, North and West of Saigon, On a different scale, the 
possible the same kind of and a developing new problem in equivalent of four North Viet­
methodical preparation for new the Mekong Delta. namese Divisions operating within 
attacks that produced the current The North Vietnamese First 75 miles of Saigon might now be 
crisis. at Quangtri, the Peril at Division has smashed an attempt shifting into a new plan of attack 
Kontum, and possibly now trouble by Saigon's forces to block it off in on the capital. 
northwest of Saigon. southeastern Cambodia and Intelligence officers are dividedin Saigon, are now "oozing away" to 
~aigon, the North Vietnamese
North Vietnam might be plan­prevent it from getting across the interpreting the movements the southwest, as an offlC.la1put it. seem be around
to swinging toning to add two more experienced border into South Vietnam's however. Other sources questioned whether threaten the capital from thedivisions to its all-out effort to ·densely populated Delta region. Some say the divisions will be there has been any significant northwest in­
destroy the South Vietnamese The Communists are trying to used for new attacks. Others say movement, however. and west, some 
telligence men think. 

army. support these battlefields of the div1sions have been so badly Prisoners captured from these
guerilla The destruction of a South
The two North Vietnamese army .regular troops with ac­decimated by U.S. air strikes that North Vietnamese units said they Vietnamese comound at Binh­divisions that were fighting in tivity and terrorism inside South they are pulling away fighting. had been told Saigon was their chanh, five miles to the southwest, Northern Laos have now pulled Vietnamese cities. Some North Vietnamese soldiers eventual objective. 
might also indicate North Viet­back. This could be the normal Senior : .malvsts here who had been tying to capture Blocked in the 'Anloc area from namese alements in that direction, seasonal withdrawal in the seesaw think Hanoi feel a compulsion to deseged Anloc, 60 miles. north of pushing straight south toward although it is still unclear. 





world briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
the coast of central Vietnam has fallen under enemy control in the past two weeks. Both South Vietnamese and American officials conceded that the loss of the area had destroyed years of work on pacification programs and that Vietnamization had failed a crucial test. 
Washington--The White House said that on the basis of a series of ex­changes between President Nixon and Soviet Party Leader Leonid Brezhnev, the first-stage agreement limiting strategic arms would be broader than had been anticipated. There was also a hint that a key issue. concerning submarine-launched missiles, was near resolution. 
Washington--Small businesses and government units with 60 or fewer employes were exempted from wage an and price controls by the cost of Jiving council. The council's :<ction affects about five million small concerns, which are responsible for about 28 percent of the nation's annual sales. It also frees about 19 million workers from wage controls. 

3: 00--seminar, jacob neusner, legal, form-critical and com­parative-literary aspects of qumran documents, hayes­healey center. 
7:30, 9:00, 11:00--movie, goodbye columbus, engineering auditorium. 
7: 30--lecture, gloria santiago, socio-political conditions and liberation movements of puerto ricans,· galvin Iife science auditorium. 
Hunt, Coccimiglio, Yates elected 
by Jim Dixon 

Jim Hunt, a junior majoring in Business Administration, was elected Friday as President of the senior class for the 72-73 school year. Hunt received 46.7 per cent~ of the 668 votes cast by prospective seniors. Steve Castellano, running r for Vice-President on the same ticket,wasalsoelected,~arnering 39
r 
r t Berrigan to speak 
r 
r ~ here on May 8 
The recently elected Senior Fellow, Rev. Daniel J. Berrigan, will be at Notre Dame on May 8 and he will deliver an address at 8:00pm in Stepan Center. 
The 50-year old Berrigan was recently paroled from the Dan­bury, Conn., federal Correctional Institution afterserving 18 months of a three-year sentence for bur­ning draft records in Catonsville, Md. in 1968. 
Berrigan was born in Virginia, Minn. and grew up in a family of six brothers headed by a social activist father with a love for poetry -two character traits which apparently rubbed off. While primarily known for his espousal of unpopular social causes, Daniel Berrigan won the Lamont Poetry Award in 1957. 
He entered the Jesuit Seminary near Poughkeepsie, NY in 1939 and, after completing theological and philosophical studies at the Jesuit Seminary at Weston, Mass. was ordained in 1952. Shortly after his ordination, he was sent to France where his contact with the worker-priest movement formed his social and political ideas. Upon his return to the United States in 1954, he was active in the most progressive Catholic Action movements of the day, including the Young Christian Workers. He was also a disciple of Dorothy Day, who founded the Christin Woker movement in 1933. 
In 1957 he was appointed a professor at Le Moyne College in Syracuse, where he was known as a conscientious, affectionate and demanding teacher. He established an off-campus "In­ternational House" for his best students, whom he then trained for social work in underdeveloped countries. 
In 1963 he returned to Europe, where he was one of the first American priests to be granted a visa to Hungary, Russia and Czechoslovkaia. His glimpse of the Christian remnant behind the Iron Curtain reinforced his theology of poverty, in which the truest Christians are the ones who are poor and persecuted, who make no obeisance to secular power, and who live in a community of risk. 
He returned to the United States the following year, and at the time he and eight others -who were to become known as the Catonsville Nine -were arrested, he was part of a team ministry on the campus of Cornell University in Ithaca, NY. He and his brother Philip, a Josephite priest also widely known for his peace activism, defended the destruction of government property as an act of Christian witness against what they con­sidered to be an immoral war in Vietnam. 
percent of the vote. Completing the elected slate is Secretarv Chris Mecca who received 37.5 per cent and Treasurer Mike McCurdy who received 46.6 per ce'nt of the vote. 
The upcoming juniors elected Miko Coccimiglio to the office of President of their class, giving him 48 per cent of the 300 votes cast. Other elected officers include Jim Lerge, Vice-President with 62 per cent of the vote, Pat Kaiser who took the spot of Secretary with 61 per cent and Skip Francesconi, 
Treasurer with 60 per cent of the votes. 
The sophomore officers were elected on a split ticket, with the present freshman class President, Dave Yates getting 41 per cent of the vote and the Presidency. Of the 540 votes cast Greg Garrison received 38 percent to make him Vic-President, Art Gilloon picked up 47 per cent as Secretary and Pete Fleming 43 per cent to become Treasurer. 


@Standard Oil Division American Oil Company 
Your freedom-machine is too pre­cious to take chances with. So why not give it the best care you can? One way is using Standard gasolines. 
Standard's Lead-Free Amoco®, the new car gasoline. not only helps cut down on air pollution, but tests prove it can double the life of your muffler and tail pipe compared to fully leaded gasolines. Makes your spark plugs last longer. too. 

It's a fact-more drivers in the Mid­west care for their cars with Standard gasolines than any other brand. And they keep coming back. Isn't that the truest test of quality? 
You've got a lot of money in your car. And it means a lot of personal freedom to you. So take good care of it ... with Standard. 
You expect more from Standard and you get it.rM 
Small businesses exempted from controls 
by Philip Shabecoff Under the new rules adopted today, prices The Council added that a periodic review of Tier Two, the category of companies that 
<C> 1972 New York Times and wages will remain under direct controls the effects of the exemption would be con­must report price and wage actions. where more than 50 per cent of the employes ducted "to ensure inflationary pressures do
Washington, May 1-The Administration 
in a small business are affected by a not arise unexpectedly.'' --The Internal Revenue Service will nowexempted millions of small businesses and "master employment contract" covering The Council added that, in any case, shift about 30 per cent of its stabilizationlocal governments from wage and price more than 60 or more workers. For "prices charged by smaller firms are not program manpower from handling inquiries controls today, effectively freeing over a example, if a company had an average of expected to increase significantly because and complaints and related matters, into quarter of the nation's total sales and work only 40 workers in a year, but 30 of them large companies within an industry tend to such compliance and enforcement activities force from compliance with its economic were covered by a multiconcern contract, exert some price discipline over small and investigations and audits. From now
stabilization program. .. Revenue's ser­
that company would still be subject to wage companies." on, r.1ore than half the
The council announced that all business or 
and price controls. vice's 3,000 men stabilization force will be
government units with 60 or fewer employes However, the Chairman of the Price
On the other hand, if a company has 60 or helping enforce the stabilization program,
need no longer comply with wage and price Commission, C. Jackson Grayson Jr., along
fewer employes and some, but less than compared to about 20 per cent previously.
regulations. with other commissioners, did not concur
half, are covered by a master contract in­--The size of the Price Commission staff
The decision affects five million small with the Administration's decision to
volving more than 60 workers, then only the will be increased from 445 to 595, a 33 per
concerns and about $500 billion in annual exempt the small businesses, commission 
wages of those workers covered by the cent gain, and the Pay Board staff will
sales, or 28 per cent of the nation's total staff officals said today.
contract are subject to wage controls. The expand from 137 to 174, or 27 per cent, to
annual sales. Reportedly the Commission believed that, 
other workers and the company itself would help the two agencies cope with their
Today's announcment also means that 19 while the decision would have no adverse
be exempt. casework. •
million workers, or 26 ~er cent of all payroll economic impact on the stabilization 
Itis Hkely that more non-union than union The cost of living council declared in its
employment, will be exempt from wage program, the timing of the decision might
workers will be exempted from controls statement today that its action in exempting 
controls. Some of these had already been erode some of the public's confidence that
under the new rules because union labor the small businesses was consistent with the 
exempted as low wage workers earning controls are being firmly enforced. 
tends to be covered by master contracts. provisions of the Economic Stabilization Act 
$1.90 an hour or less. The council did not include the con­Donald Rumsfeld, Director of the Cost of -nie Council said that the new exemptions struction industry or medical services in its, amendments approved by Congress lass 
will release 67,500 small governments, December.
Living Council, insisted that the nev: action in exempting small business. 
exemptions "are not a step toward atcounting for 83 per cent of all local Rumsfeld said that these companies and In January, the Council exempted about 1 
government units, and 378,000 local 75 per cent of the nation's retail stores,
decontrol or Phase Three. They are the serfices would remain controlled because of 
government employes, or 7 per cent of the which account for about 15 per cent of total 
logical next steps in the refinement of the main controlled because of their "potential
total. from controls. retail sales, as well as about 40 per cent of
economic stabilization program." inflationary impact." 
all rental housing from the controls
The decision to exempt-small business 1
program.
and government, Rumsfeld said, would The Council said that even though small The Cost of Living Council also announced At that time time Rumsfeld emphasized, 
"eliminate unnecessary red tape," from businesses and governments are now several related decisions today: as he did at today's news conference at the
Adniministration and enforcement of the exempt and will no longer ~e monit~red on --controls on construction and medical new Executive Office Building, that the
stabilization program and would allow an ongoing bases, "compliance with t~e services have been made "tighter" by exemptions were not a sign that the
better allocation of the program's limited standards and policies of the Economic reclassifying 201 companies upward into government had started to decontrol the resources. Stabilization Program is still expected." Tier One, the pronotification category, and economy. 
Pentagon Papers 

E 

Pulitzer prize 

by Peter Kihss Columbia Trustees for finai 
(C> 1972 New York Timt:~ decision. · . 
New York, May 1-The 1972 In the case of'·The New York Pulitzer Prize for meritorious Times, an entry in the Public public service in journalism was Service category had been ac­awarded today to the New York companied by separate Times for publication of the nominations for Neil Sheehan, the


OBSERVER 
Pentagon Papers --documents Washington Correspondent who showing how the United States first obtained the Pentagon became involved in the Vietnam Papers, in both nation and in­War. ternational reporting categories. Jack Anderson, the syndicated The Public Service Jury
Tuesday May 2, 1972 Page 3 
columnist, won the Pulitzer Prize recommended a eold medal for for national reporting for his both the Times andSheeharbut the disclosures of Nixon Ad­Advisory Board made its ministration policy-making during recommendation only for the the Indian-Pakistan War. newspaper with 'members arguing 
For what was believed to be the that the prize in this category was first time in the 56-year history of not intended for an individual. the prizes, the Columbia A.M. Rosenthal, Managing 
Russia announces tougher 
University Board of Trustees, who Editor of the Times said today: officially award them, issued a "This Pulitzer Award means a statement saying a Board majority great deal to everybody on the 
by Theodore Shabad "had deep reservations about the paper. It symbolizes to us the 

line on U.S. foreign policy 
<c> 1972 New York Times timeliness anuitability of certain of support we have received from the Moscow-President Nikolai Podgorny The anti-American theme was reiterated the Journalism ~rds.'_' great majority of the American 
denounced yesterday United States policy in on several floats in the parade, which has Press in our decision to print the
While the Trustees said they had 
Vietnam and pledged continued support for been entirely civilian for some years. One :accepted all the recommendations Pentagon Papers and durine: the the Indochinese Communists, in what ap­float showed a figure in Ku Klux Klan garb made by the Advisory Board on the court battle. Weal;'e_all particularlypeared to be a toughening ofthe Kremlin's hanging a black against the background of a Pulitzer Prizes largely because . proud of Neil-Sheehan, for the · line on Southeast Asia. silhouette of the Statue of Liberty. they had done so in the past, they tenacity, owledgeand professional
Speaking from the Lenin Mausaleum to At the same time, the appearance of the added that "had the selections ability____!!!at contributed so pivotlly 
tens of thousands of Muscovites assembled article in USA magazine, in effect setting the been those of the Trustees alone, to thP. wholP.-project.,
in Red Swuare, Podgorny said: stage for Nixon's visit, was designed to show certain of the recipients would not Arthur Ochs Sulzberger,
"On this first of May we affirm our that, Moscow would not let the have been chosen." President and Publisher of themilitary solidarity with the courageous developments in Vietnam stand in the way Although none of the members of New York Times, is a member ofpatriots of Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia, of agreements with the United States on the 23-man board who could be the Columbia Board of Trustees,who are waging a heroic struggle against other major issues. 
reached would be quoted on which John Hastings, University
· United States aggression.'' Although the article also deplored the awards were opposed, it was spokesman, said Sulzberger ab­However, the impact of the Soviet situation in Vietnam in vigorous tones, this 
learned that the controversy in­sented himself from discussion and 
Pesident's words was balanced by was one of a wide range of aspects of Soviet­volved the prizes for Anderson and voting on the Journalism awards
publication of a moderate article on Soviet­American_r«:!ations discussed by the author. the Times. In both instances there held at an unusual board meeting
United States relations looking toward the 
Podgorny's statement of support for was argument over the way that Sunday night at the Columbia
summit meeting beteen President Niixon Indochina's Communists may have had the official government documents University Club and today at theand Kremlin leaders later this month. 
aim of assuring the Soviet Union's allies had fallen into the hands of jour­Universitv.
The article, published in the monthly 
following the secret visit to Moscow last nalists. Anderson's national reportingmagazine USA, expressed the hope that weekend by Henry _Kissinger, Nixon's ad­In addition to 11 prizes in award involved his disclosures ofconcrete agreements on strategic arms visor on national security affairs. Vietnam Journalism, there were six awards White House and other discussions limitations, trade and scientific and cultural is understood to have figured prominently in in letters and one for music. For which pictured President Nixon as
exchanges would emerge from Nixon's ~
talks he had with Leonid Brezhnev, the the first time since 1968, no award having favored the Pakistani sideweek-long visit starting May 22, and added: 
Soviet Party Chief. was made for drama. when the Indian army was winning "There can be no doubt about the ob­A public affirmation of the Soviet Union's The prizes provide for $1,000 independence for the new nation of jective necessity for the normal develop­
commitments to its allies was also made awards in each category, aside Bangladesh in what had been Eastment of Soviet-American relations." 
while Kissinger was meeting in Moscow from the gold medal for public Pakistan, 
l
The juxtaposition of President Podgomy's 
with Brezhnev and Foreign Minister Andre service, and the teams involved In Washington today Andersonspeech and of the magazine article, written 
Gromyko. will share their $1,000 allocations said:
by Vikenty Matveyev ,a seni\.lr commentator The USA magazine, which is published by while each member will get a "The Pulitzer Prize is theof the government newspaper Izbestia, 
the Institute on Study of the USA of the certificate. Academy Award of Journalism, soreflected the evident ambiguity of Soviet Academy of Sciences is presumed to have a There were 693 entries for the I have to be both pleased and proud attitudes in the present context of world more limited impact than speech Journalism awards,screened first to receive it. But far more is thedevelopments. 
pronounced by a leader of the Kremliin by nine juries consisting of 45 significance of the award.Podgorny's remarks, made in the course from the Lenin Mausoleum. editors and publishers. The jury "This was given for exposing ,
of a 15-minute speech before the start of the a 13­
But the views expressed in the magazine, recommendations go up to government secrets. The Pulitzer 
traditional May day parade, were evidently 
whose printing of 32,000 copies circulates member advisory board, set up Board therefore has recognzied the 
intended to affirm the Soviet determination among academic leaders and policy­under the will of Joseph Pulitzer, r.ight of the people to know what 
to criticize the United States on the Vietnam 
makers, are known to reflect a significant Publisher of the New York World. goes on in the backrooms of 
,l
issue and to continue support for Moscow's 
segment of opinion in the Soviet establish­The Board may accept, reject or (8overnment, and that's moreallies in -Hanof ment. substitute recommendations, and important than any personaiits recommendations then eo to the satisfaction I might have." ~ 

r 
, r 
by Linas Sidrys

r Lithuanians actively fought the 
Recently a petition was cir­Russians in guerrilla warfare, culated on the ND-8MC campuses, hoping for help from the West. For requesting the United Nations example, in May 15, 1945 the forest Human Rights Commission to of Kalniskiai was a scene of battle investigate the Russian occupation between 84 Lithuanians and 2000
f 
and subsequent annexation of the Russians; the Russians left 280
r 
formerly free Baltic countries, and dead, the Lithuanian losses were
r 
also the massive violation of 43, with three women. The
r
, human rights in these three struggle has now changed to nations: Lithuania, Latvia and passive resistance.
r 
Estonia. Although one thousand In 1970, Pranas Brazinskas and
r 
r signatures were collected here, his son became the first to escape many of the students had not heard from the USSR using a Russian
r 
of these countries before, others plane; Vytautas Simokaitis and his
~ 
~ argued that it was a completely wife made an unsuccessful at­,I futile gesture, some thought it tempt the same year. V. would be like having the Soviet Simokaitis was executed.r Union request that the UN in­Last month, 17,000 Lithuanians vestigate racism in the US. in Lithuania put their own necks on 
l ~ 
.al the line by signing a demand for 
All violation of human rights is religious freedom which was then deplorable; however an analogy presented to Brezhnev through the between the personal racism here UN, by this petition hoping to draw and the official and systematic the attention to the rest of the genocide of the Soviet Union world to their persecution. Ac­cannot be correctly drawn by cording to the UN Charter, which
r 
anyone with a knowledge of this the Russians have signed, religious situation. persecution is condemned as a crime against humanity. This OBSERVER INSIGHT petition was the largest protest in the Soviet Union to date; it 
Lithuania is a country of received widespread publicity int 3,000,000 people within a territory Europe but was not mentioned in r of 35,000 sQ. miles on the east shore American oa~rs. 
of the Baltic Sea, bounded by In the March 29 issue of Le Latvia, Germany and Russia. Monde Moscow correspondentf 
With a distinct history of 700 years, Alain Jacob reported: " ... we have the Lithuanians have nothing in no freedom of worship; the Church common with the occupying is persecuted. Our bishops J. Russians; their history, language, Steponavicius and V. Sladkevicius r culture, religion and physical have been exiled without a trial. r appearance is entirely different The priests Zdepskis and Bubnis from that of the Russians. have been imprisoned because Lithuania is the only Catholic they taught children the
,f 
country inside the Soviet Union; it catechism, at the request of their r is 85 percent Roman Catholic. The parents." r Lithuanian language is closely The lack of priests is noted: 
related to ancient Sanskrit, not to "The state does not permit men to ~ Russian or German. enter the seminary -only ten a For ten years after WW II, the year are allowed, and those are 
r 
Irish activistists' talk 
by Redman Tyrell 

Calling for a student body more concerned about the critical situation in Northern Ireland, Mr. James O'Sullivan, Publicity Director of the Notre Dame 
Committee for Ulster Justice, yesterday announced a campus program for Thursday night, which will feature two Irish liberationist speakers and an Irish­American folk group. 
O'Sullivan, a Notre Dame MB MBA student from London, EnJZland, stated that the two 
speakers Sr. St. Hugh and Bernard Cullen, are well qualified to speak on the subject, both being in­timately involved in the movement. 
Sr. St. Hugh, an Irish Franciscan nun whose brother was killed recently in Northern Ireland, has made numerous speaking ap­pearances on the crisis, including a talk before the Untied Nations. Mr. Cullen, a native of Belfast, recently came to America, having narrowly escaped British im­prisonment. Also appearing will be Tht> Travelling People, an Irish American folk group who'll be singing a number of Irish militant songs. 
The program represents an effort to present the militant view of the Northern Ireland situation, characterized by the statements issuing forth from the IRA Provisional Headquarters that seem to enjoy pervasive popular support in the Catholic ghettoes in Belfast and Derry. 
"The militant view carries the 
hallmark of legitimacy and has a 
right to be voiced. It will be voiced 
Thursday night." O'Sullivan said. 
O'Sullivan went on to justify the 
militant perspective on Northern 
Ireland by claiming that nothing 
has been done to alleviate the 
social conditions job 
discrimination, housing 
discrimination, and practices 
against the Catholic minority-that 
forced "millions of Irish men and 
women to flee their homeland in 
the lOth century." 
The Thursday events are being arranged by the Notre Dame Committee for Ulster Justice, a small, recently organized group. O'Sullivan said the Committee is now composed of "about 10 active members," but he was hopeful that 
many more would join after at­tending Thursday night's talks. 
chosen by u..~ state, not by the one even the Soviet Constitution. remaining bishop." The people Therefore, I consider myself are not permitted to build new completely innocent. However, I churches, even in cases when two know well that my fate has already churches burned down the same been decided by the security
organs."
night. Other churches are con­
verted to museums and Kudirka continued: "The death storehouses. of Stalin saved my people from 
A clear picture of the physical extermination. Now we Lithuanian-Russian conflict can be are destined to die a much slower realized from the trial of Simas death-assimilation. However, we lfudirka in 1971. This Lithuanian don't want to die. For ten years, sailor had jumped from a Soviet our brothers in the woods trawler to seek political asylum <Lithuanian partisans l fought, aboard the US Coast Guard vessel believing that in the West our Vigilant. Because of American struggle was known and sup­bureaucracy, ignorance and a red ported, even if only morally. tape, Kudirka was returned to the Those who died in battle or in Russians. The following is taken concentration camps believed it as from Mr. Anatole Shub's report well. <Even the state security from Paris, released by the Los officials admit that 50,000 Angeles Times and the Lithuanian partisans died). The Washington Post. Atlantic Charter which promised 
The chief judge asked Kudirka the enslaved nati~ns freed?m, was "How do you exnl:~ip that they an empty promise, costmg my turned you back?" Kudirka-people 50,000 dead and 400,000 replied, "The ordinary American de~orted, of. whom 150,000. fou~d received me very well. Seeing that their graves m the earth of Siberia. I was cold, they gave me warm " clothing, while the Russian sailors "The bravest and most resolute beat me until I was unconscious. . patriots of Lithuania were physically annihilated. But a new young generation has grown which intends to go the road of their fathers. When I refused to fulfill the wish of the state security organs, they threatened me with the death sentence. I believe that this promise will be fulfilled. I am a devout Catholic. Therefore, if the supreme court sentences me to deah, I would request it to invite a priest to give the the last rites of the Catholic Church.' 
". . . I ask you grant my homeland Lithuania, in­dependence." 
Chairman: "How do you picture an independent Lithuania." 
Kudirka: "An independent Lithuania, in my opniion, has a sovereign government and is not occupied by any army. The government has a national ad­ministration, its own legal system, and a free democratic system of elections. The laws of other countries are not binding on this government, as the laws of Russia are here today. I would like there to be no more trials as mine in Lithuania." 

. In the eyes of the eyes of the .----------------~$~1=--0::-:::9:--:M:-:::-£-=--=-,--, American military administration, • r • S I, as a Lithuanian, was the legal Suggested Retail property of Brezhnev. th heir to Stalin, and should be returned •­
him." 

A political comissar asked Kudirka if he had known that he wouldn't find work in the US-or it would have been cleaning toilets .. Kudirka answered: "The job isn't important. There is no dishonorable work, and if I had cleaned toilets, it would have been 
CREST FAMILY 
wwith a clear conscience, which is 
N.D. Bookstore 


not the way you carry out your 
work. Your party membership 
card is only a ration card." 
ND Prelaw Society Meeting
Kudorka spoke in his own defense, citing statements from 
4 South Bend lawyers Marx an Lenin and other writings to explain the difference between 
(criminal, corporate, US Attorney, 
.>ocialist theory and practice in 
general trial)

Lithuania. "I do not consider 
myself guilty since I did not betray 
my homeland, Lithuania. I do not 
will speak and answer questions 
consider Russia, called the Soviet 
Union today, as my homeland... 
Thurs. May 4 8:00 pm
From the standpoint of in­
ternational law I am not a 
123 Nieuwland

criminal. My decision to go abroad 
does not contradict the UN 
Declaration of Human Rights or 
TWNsLOW YOUTH FARES TO EUROPE. 
LONDON $275  
PARIS $285  
ROME $259  
ATHENS $338  
FRANKFURT$298  
ZURICH/ $248GENEVA  
The fares shown are Chicago round trip departures. "'Service marks owned exclusively by TWA.  

Besides offering you these low airfares, TWA also offers you great departure and arrival flexibility. 
You have a choice of coming or going from almost any city in the United States or Europe. 
And to help you in Europe, TWA offers Stutel pass.* 

A coupon booklet that gets you a room and Conti­nental breakfastineithera guest­house or student hotel in any of 50 European cities for only $4.80 
a night. No advance reservations needed. 
Or, if you want, there's our Bed and Breakfast Adventures.* 
These are a higher grade of reserved accommodations and range in price from $6 to $18 a day. 
Then to help you pay for your trip, there's our free 

Getaway Card.* With it, you can 
take up to two years to pay. For more information call your 
travel agent or TWA. 


Tuesday May 2, 1972 
the observer 




Vieweoint---faculty 
CAP ..-an inside look 
Leslie Martin 

(The following is a letter from Dr. I,..eslie Martin, assistant professor of English and director of the Committee on Academic Progress, to Dean Frederick Crosson, College of Arts and Letters. In the letter Martin takes a deep look at the goals and directions of CAP. The letter was released by Dean Crosson. ed. l 
Dear Dean Crosson: 
Two years as Chairman of the Committee on Academic Progress have been a rewarding time for me. I have profited from the intellectual and personal com­panionship of the Committee's students and advisors and from our sense of shared en­deavor. But I must now ask, with regret, to be relieved from these duties at the end of the present semester. 
I have for some time been deeply con­cerned about the charges of "elitism" aimed at the Committee with increasing frequency. Formerly I answered them with the confident assertion that there is, and always would be, an Aristocracy of Talent whose claims constituted a right rather than a privilege. I based this attitude on two assumptions: that the Committee did in reality locate and embrace gifted students from throughout the College; and that reasonable, adequate alternatives existed for others less promising but equally valuable as human beings 
Neither of these assumptions is, however, 
any longer entirely tenable. The Com­
mittee's procedures for identifying the 
College's best students have broken down. 
In confirmation of that claim, let me pose to 
you the implications of statistics related to 
the interviewing period now in progress. 
The figures before the names of the various 
departments are the number of persons 
submitting nominations; those after, the 
number of students nominated. 
Faculty 
(10) English 23 
(1) History 1 
(1) Theology 1 
(1) Economics 3 
(2) Sociology 2 
(2) Classics -Mod. Lang 5-1 (1) Government 5 (1) Art 1 
19 42 
Teaching Assistants (16) English 28 (1) History 1 
17 29 

To interpret these data one need observe 
only the following facts: 
1. 
Of the 15 departments in the College, only 8 are apparently able by virtue of contact with freshmen to supply nominations. 

2. 
Of those 8 departmenss, only one 1English) yielded responses from more than 2 faculty members. 

3. 
While the English faculty did nominate 23 students, a bare 15 proved to be freshmen. One was a junior, 


The implications are obvious and dismal. Only 25 percent of the regular English faculty appears able to respond, and only 66 percent of their nominations involved fresh­mul. Although the English faculty has in the past proven an excellent resource for the Committee in terms of judgment, it produced only 15 candidates. In sum, their discrimination is excellent, but their quantitative output (and that in terms of candidates, not appointments) is less than .01 percent of the enrollment of the College. 
The implications to be derived from nominations submitted by our Teaching Assistants are likewise unreassuring. The Teaching Assistants do by virtue of their classroom contact with Freshmen comprise an indispensible resource. Yet even in the English department only 16 TA's, or. ~o percent of those teaching, responded v...h nominations. If we assume that the remaining 15 English T A's each teach one section of about 25 students, it would appear that about 375 students were not accorded careful scrutiny by their instructors despite Prof. Donald Costello's earnest urgings. It is, I think, fair to assume that among 25 randomly assembled freshmen, at least 10 percent on the average deserve preliminary consideration from their teacher and that ­again on the average -one student among 25, at a minimum, warrants an interview. If anything, these estimates are conservative. 
Examination of the statistics for the 
"When the College was small and its faculty less taxed, the Committee as it is now constituted served a most useful function But now needs have outstripped our existing capacities." 
plausible. This can lead to an unpleasant ritual interviewing of many young men who are deserving persons but average students. Their hopes mush be disappointed if the 
autumn semester, 1971-72, shows an almost-Committee is to retain its past level of identical profile for the location of gifted academic excellence. sophomores. Then too English was the sole So much for logistics. Let me return to the department vigorously active. The second of my former assumptions, the cumulative effect of this prepensity toward· availability of reasonable, adequate localized nominations is conspicuous in the alternatives to the CAP. The problems of ultimate composition of the Committee. Of, locating gifted students could be solved 
31 CAP advisors on duty, 12 (40 percent) are members of the English Department. A' roughly corresponding proportion Of the Committee's students are English majors. The Chairman is at present a member of that faculty. 
In terms of locating the College's "gift­ted" students, then, the Committee on Academic Progress from necessity relies largely upon the only department still ac­tively engaged in teaching freshmen and sophomores. A substantial role must of course be played by a large department which attracts many majors. But the inability of other departments to contribute a reasonable proportion -not to mention the inexplicable absence of nominees from the Freshman Seminars and the Humanities Seminars -bodes ill for the future. 
A further complication isthephenomenon of self-nominations to date many were solicited by the students themselves. I have found that faculty are quick to grant nominations to such students because they reason that their want of knowledge warrants letting the Committee screen the student and decide for itself. This is,of course, a deplorable corruption of the system originally envisioned. Moreover, I am approached constantly by students who do not know a single faculty member well enough to make even a solicited nomination 
WE'RE MOVING JUNE .1st·. ·r 
COMMUNITY NEWSTAND to 113 W.·Monroe St. S'outh Bend, i."'d .. 
BEST BANDS IN TOWN -Two Bands a hight -Dancing 6 nights a week (closed Monday.) -No cover on Tues., Wed., Thurs. -0oen till 2 a.m . "One stop entertainment center" 

Cocktail Lounge Bowling Bi.lliards 
S~u/a's J\lite C/ut 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
616/683-4350 
within the context of the existing structures if radical measures were employed. But it is in a degree the elaborateness of the Freshman Year of Studies which poses the problem not to be resolved by any existing entity. At a time in which the Freshman Year is evolving a complex structure, the sophomore year in this College and in others remains a void. Even the efforts of Deans Thompson and Waddick cannot begin to cope with the sheer numbers of students whom they must try to aid. In consequence sophomore Arts and Letters intents, knowing that many of our departments lack an organized advisory structure of their own, look to the CAP from a standpoint of desperation. I am not inclined to sen­timentalize students or their problems. Yet I find from lengthy experience that their frustration when not appointed is indictive of a vacuum not to be filled with my stan­dard, if honest response: that the Com­mittee is convinced they are making fine "academic progress" on their own. 
In my view, the only possible alternative is an organized, effective program for sophomores, substantive in its own nature and supportive for those whose needs do not warrant appointment to a special program. The Committee itself must develop a whole new approach employing whatever can be salvaged of its old methods and improvising new. probably difficult procedures which avoid statistical appraisals and psychological norms to recommend Fresh­men to our attention. At a guess, such a new approach might involve virtually ad­vertising the existence of the Commiteee; preliminary screenings of the resulting inundation of students through brief in­terviews and careful appraisal of all available credentials, including any faculty recommendations that are spontaneous; a more representative sampling of each student's capacities than that afforded by the intellectual autobiography presently iQ use; and a more discursive style of final interview htnathe present sudden death thirty minutes on which, in my opinion, too much emphasis lies. 
When the College was small and its faculty less taxed, te Committee as it is now constituted served a most useful function. But new needs have outstripped our existing capacities.Now that the new curriculum has dispensed with any need for management of requests for exemptions from the routine program, the Committee needs to move into a new stance within an enhanced context. I earnestly hope new ways can be found. 
To end on a personal note. I think you for the compliment of confidence which my appointment to the Chairmanship first testified and for the many evidences of your good will which I hav subsequently enjoyed. The former gave me genuine pleasure; the latter made possible much of the "progress" which I like to think the Com­mittee's students have achieved. Please convey my thanks and good wiches to Dean Devere Plunkett, Dean Richard Thompson; and Dean Robert Waddick. To their un­derstanding and good offices many owe a great deal. Cordial regards, Leslie Martin. 

Anyone interested in applying for the following positions or in working on 1973 MARDI GRAS can contact John Duffy or Joe Oliva at 1204 or contact the Social Commission Office (7757) Carnival Chairman 
Pomotions Kickoff Party Chairman 
Raffle Chairman 
Games Chairman 
Business Manager 

r 
r 
r 
~ 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER  
John Abowd  Jim Jendryk  
News: 283-1715  Editor-in-chief  Business Manager  
EditoriaI: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471  Don Ruane  Ann Druecker  
Executive Editor  Advertising Manager  

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Tue!'tJay May 2, 1972 

r 
r 
! ~ 

Meet the 
" ... 1 believe in letting a thousand flowers of creativity bloom on this campus... " 
"We want to let a thousand flowers bloom on this campus, and we want to work together as a team... " 
--Dr. Edward Henry, President­elect St. Mary's College 
Dr. Edward Henry blazed out from the O'Laughlin Auditorium Friday, leaving a trail of rhetoric in his wake. The president-elect used more similes and metaphors than a fledgling poet in his recital of promises from long ago. Not only were the ideas and proposals unoriginal, but his manipulation of cliches, supposedly heavy with sym­bolism, strained the belief of the students. It is impossible to refer to in­telligent students who want answers as "a thousand flowers". You have to wonder, where have all the flowers gone? To Notre Dame or elsewhere, if they're fed up enough. When will the ad­ministrators ever learn? 
The speech's tone and content hardly redeemed it. Dr. Henry was once described in an Observer editorial as initially moving with "FDR-like ef­ficiency," but Friday's convocation had neither the soothing nor the moving effect of a fireside chat. It was stiff and formal, and hardly conducive to the "community discourse" and "open lines of com­munication" that Dr. Henry refers to. "Community discourse" seems just another one of those safely ambiguous catchphrases that can be interjected to one's advantage without forcing one to cite any concrete starting points. 
Speaking of that "community discourse" and "open lines of com­munication," Dr. Henry didn't open the floor to questions after his monologue. Afterward, he evasively muttered something to the effect that students would be likely to bring up individual problems of a technical nature con­cerning their personal situations, or this or that course-questions which he said he would have been unprepared to answer. So, no dialogue. 
This is presupposing a lack of judgement on the part of the students. Dr. Henry need only have stipulated at the 
new boss... 
beginning of a Q-A period that the questions were to be general ones. His jumping to unqualified conclusions defeats his own philosphy of a desire for open student-administration com­munications. 
Dr. Henry does plan to sample student opinion sometime next week through a questionnaire to be sent to 500 randomly selected students. That's a start, but why didn't he mention this to students during the convocation and offer some concrete proposals instead of his rambling generalities? Why was there no report on the results of the progress of the SMC­IUSB negotiations for co-exchange, in­stead of just a vague non-committal reminder that a coexchange is being planned? Dr. Henry wants to "implement community government." Great--but how? 
"New majors are already under consideration," we are told. This stirs our interest, but we are only left frustrated when we are not told exactly what majors. And so on. Perhaps it's ad­vantageous for a politician to speak in terms that won't commit him, but Dr. Henry is no longer a politician. St. Mary's needs an administrator who is willing and unafraid to commit himself. It certainly would have given students some hope to hear some plain facts instead of the same old run-around. After Friday's speech, no one would call Dr. Henry a morale­builder. 
In a press conference on March 13 immediately after his appointment to the presidency, Dr. Henry stressed the need for reconstruction of the Board of Trustees, and the inclusion of students and faculty on the Board, in an attempt to "implement community government." However, on Friday, he only suggested, "I hope to convince the corporation ... to include more laywomen and men as well as nuns, representing all walks of life ... " 
Fine! But but he didn't specifically commit himself to faculty membership. Here we go again, on the ambiguity merry-go-round. Those laywomen and men could be just more outsiders, un­familiar with the real problems of St. Mary's. 
Meet the new boss--as the song says, "sa me as the old boss." 
Maria Gallagher 
THE OBSERVER 
Monday Night Staff in their valiant last stance. 
Night Editor: Anthony 
Abowd t:any Shift: John Abowd 
Ass't Night Editors: Art Esposito, George Lund Layout: Nlc Catrambone, Mike Dent 
Headl!nes: Ch · S llivan
Headliner: ns u Pictureman: Bob Hughes 

Day Editor: Redman Managing Editor: Joe Sports Night Editor: Jim Abell Donaldson News Editor: Jerry Night Controller: John Lutkus Bra.dy SMC Editor: Maria Typists: Dan Rock, Gallagher Dianne Chermside, Debbie Features Editor: Ron Gras, Anne Conway, Jill Braye Hampe, Ginna Smith, John Editoria I Page Editor: Flannigan Jim McDermott Honorary Night Editress: Sports Editor: Jim 
Marguerite Barrows Donaldson 
Many thanks for a semester of hard work and full to the staff that has it all toqether. Have a nice 
summer. -A.A. 
"Young man, you must quit your petty thievery here." 
0 b er v er 11111111111111111111111111 lllllmlmlmmnmmnmmmm1mmmm11mnn
5 
Man over clock 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111mlmm1 Russell Baker 
(C) 1972 The New York Times 

Washington, May !--Daylight Saving Time is an act of magic. One instant it is 2 o'clock in the morning and--abracadabra~-the next it is 3 o'clock in the morning. An entire hour has been made to vanish. Science cannot justify it; logic cannot explain it; farmers cannot tolerate it. But there is the fact nevertheless. For one entire hour no one has been born and no one has died. No one has made a fortune, no one lost a love. 
Two A.M. breaking every rule required to keep the Universe in orderly running condition, simply and instantly turned in to 3A.M. magic. 
This is an exciting demonstration of what we can do when we really want to rise above science, constricting regulations and rules of the Universe; because the magic behind Daylight Saving Time is nothing more mysterious than a general human agreement that men are more important than clocks. Because we don't like what the clocks tells us we take the clock in hand, and, using physical force, make the clock tell us something more to our liking. 
''We are tired of it being dark by 7:30in the evening on these sweet days of spring." We say to the clock. "When the days are as good as this we want them to last longer." 
"Tick tock," replies the clock smug in its 'scientific esac­titude,immutability and sense of representing inescapable rule and universal order. 
"Clock, " we say, "we are man! When woman and man want sweet spring's light to last beyond 7:30 in the evening, they cannot be frustrated by officious clocks." A quick hand on the hands,·and the magic is done. Through the night has advanced notatall, it is suddenly 8:30PM. 
The pity is that this instance of man's taking charge of his own destiny is so rare, for the principle of Daylight Saving Time could be used widely to make life more human in many areas where life is at present barely tolerable. 
Why not, for example, wave the wand and abolish the hour between 1 and2 P.M. of each weekday? The gain in human happiness, as well as sobriety, would be incalculable. This is the hour traditionally occupied by the start of the business lunch, a dreadful ritual in which, to transact three minutes of business, men have to sit two-and-a-half hours in a darkened restaurant struggling, each, to seem more vital than the other. An hour magically cropped out of the day at this point would surely work magic for the Gross National Product. 
It would also be a boon to school children, for it is the hour immediately after lunch when the future hope of America is barely educable, what with drowsiness caused by healthy young digestion and the grim knowledge that the school day still has two hours to run. 
The deducted hour could be resored magically at 7 A.M. at which time the women of America (men on Mondays, Wenesday, Friday and alternate Sundays in liberated households) would turn off the alarm, reset the clock to 6 A.M. and take another hour of sleep. 
Applications of the magic need not be confined to the clock. It can be made to work with the calendar, too. Would it not be delightful if at midnight on the 31st of January we all went to the calendar, tore off February and immediately entered the month of March? 
People born in February and skiers would probably object. Some people like standard time all summer long, too, and for those people certain areas of the United States are reserved, areas in which Daylight Saving Time is not allowed. The same provision could be made for those who want to keep February where it is. Several mountains in Vermont, the city of Buffalo and a large tract of northern Minnesota would still go from January into February; the rest of us would be able to say, at midnight, January 31: "only three more weeks until spring!" 
The removed month of February would be put back, naturally, but at a place where it would improve life for the generality of humanity. The ideal spot would be immediately after the month of August{ so that children might say at August's end, "only one more month until school begins." and that women might havt: another four weeks respite from football. 
In times of political drudgery a race habituated to rearranging time by magic would be especially fortunate. How sweet if tomorrow we could all awake. peel four years off the calendar, and thus make politicians who so depressed us last night four years older, tireder, maybe even wiser. We would have to put those four years back in somehwere later, of course. But not too soon. Maybe in the 21st Century, if the war is over then. 
Daylight savings time is something that hasn't gotten to South Bend yrt-----t>d 
------------­ 
Tuesday May 2, 1972 the observer the once and future student (interregnum)  7  j l j I l  

new writer of the fertile page 
Fred and I walked into the Sink just as darkness was falling. We showed our ID's to Larry and went into the main room. I went up to the bar for a pitcher of Coors and two paper cups and went to the booth where Fred was sitting, and poured two ~asses of beer before sitting myself. 
Fred lit up a cigarette and I realized that I had left mine in the car, so I bum­med one of hers. She took off her coat and stuffed it into the corner of the booth. 
·•·Hey, hey, tropical heat wave's. a­
~min' !"We looked up and saw a fifty1sh, 
balding man wearing a nylon windbreaker 
and a Detroit baseball cap, shuffling and 
snapping his fingers at the mouth of our 
booth. Oh, jay, Dancing Delmar. 
"Hello, Delmar," Fred said. Dancing 
Delmar pirouetted and put his hands flat 
on the table while his feet continued to 
move. 
"Hey, hey, tropical heat wav~, coming 
through, heard it all on the evenmg news, 
tropical heat wave comin', yeah!" 
"No kidding," Fred smiled. "When's it 
coming, Delmar?" 
"Tonight, yessir, it's comin'g tonight, 
that tropical heat wave, we'll get it soon, 
tropical heat wave, comin' through!" 
Delmar began to dance again, and Fred 
poured his glass full of beer. He picked it 
up without missing a beat, and ~r~nk 
between phrases. "Temperature r:•smg, 
just like spring, tropical heat wave comin' 
through, gonna be beautiful. yeah, yeah 
we'll all go swimmin', yeah, yeah!'; "That's great, Delmar!" Fred said. "I'll ,1 ·get my tan this weel}~nd!" 
"yeah, yeah, trq\)ical heat wave!" Delmar danced slowly away, turning and snapping his fingers. 
A bearded, black-haired freak came in from the bar area and sat next to Fred, across the booth from me.-"Hello, people what's new?" 
"Tropical heat wave," I answered drily. 
"Oh, Pete, this is John the Baptist," Fred said. We shook hands. "John the Baptist?" I asked. 
"Yeah, well, it's a long story." John jumped up and grabbed an empty cup from the next booth. He looked at the pitcher questioningly and I shrugged. "It started a long time ago,"he said, pouring himself a glass of beer, "in Atlantis." 
I drained my glass and took another one of Fred's cigarettes. 
"Yesssss ..."John shut his eyes. "In Atlantis." He opened his eyes and sud­denly sat forward. "We're all vibrations, dig? I mean, atoms and everything is just made up of vibrations, right? Well, those vibrations come from the stars, and sometimes a vibration is a note, dig? Well, when a vibration produces a note of ex-
Elton John came to Los Angeles in mid­1970 for a promotional appearance at the Troubadour, famed as a rock talent hat­chery, won standing ovations and, within three weeks, was a major rock celebrity throughout the United States. 
Gordon Lightfoot, Bread, the Beach Boys, Quincy Jones, Three Dog Night, they all dropped by to see what the applause was about during his week at the Troub. 
Leon Russell came in, too, and as Elton tells it, "He's my idol as far as piano playing, and there he was sitting in the front row. My legs turned to jelly...I mean, to compare my playing with his is sacrilege." 
AI Kooper, one of Blood, Sweat & Tears' founding fathers, said of a John LP, "That albums's really got me screwed up It's just the perfect album, and I carry it around everywhere with me in my briefcase." 
Elton, meanwhile, was having difficulty with his new "superstar" status. 
"It's just a word," he said. "I hate it. In America everyone gets overexcited and I found I had to take a few people aside and calm them down. Imagine how I felt being introduced to people like Leon Russell as 'Elton John, superstar'--pretty stupid, I tell you. 
"I suppose it's because I'm basically ven ceptional clarity and resonance, that note will never fade away. It may go to the moon or the sun or the stars, it may become a comet, but it never dies. Eventually, it comes back to the terrestial plane." 
"And your vibration is a clear note?" I suggested. John smiled beatifically. 'A very clear note. The clear, rich note of the Baptist." 
"How did you recognize that?' I asked. 
"The note is clear. I wax in communion with the vibrations of the stars and my vibrations were clarified, mellowed out and enriched, and the note emerged from my inner soul and became me. It vibrated and its resonance shook every atom of my being and the note was manifested in my astral and terrestial body and made them one." 
"You weren't John the baptist before?" 
"Not quite. But in a way, yeah, I was. But, dig, I wasn't tuned into it. I didn't have the sensitivity. I was just living in my body, abusing it with all forms of drugs-and garbage food. But the note was strong and clear. You have to clarify your vibrations ... " He turned his attention to explaining to Fred that communing with the Eternal was essential and that finding a medium was all-important. Naturally, the closer you got to a medium such as John the Baptist ... 
I switched off my mind and was con-
quiet that I don't revel in that sort of thing. It's nice knowing certain people like me, but I know what I'm capable of and I'm capable of much more than I'm doing at present. 
"There's no reason for me to get big­headed. I hate it when things get blown out of all proportion." 
The superstar, err, that is, John will headline in concert here on May 3 at the ACC, with tickets priced from $5.50, $4.50, $2.75. 
Appearing with him will be his regular trio of backup musicians, Dee Murray on bass, Davey Johnstone on lead guitar and Nigel Olsson on drums. 
The myth of the Wasteland in literature is a tale told in images of death and sterility of a kingdom that lies under a curse. The failure of the natural fruitfulness of the earth and the dehumanized sexual energies of people who <':}pulate as mindlessly as machines are a reflection of the wounded king sick with impotence. The land will remain doomed until a hero (a questing knightl comes who can cure the king. In the meantime nothing grows in the Wasteland. The rain does not 'come to relieve the drought and bring new life to the fields. All human life is still-born or aborted, because the Wasteland is a kingdom without hope or grace. 
At times this year, America has seemed like a contemporary wasteland, even in the garden spots of a Southern springtime. At Easter I travelled over 4300 milkes across Dixie on a bus with the Glee Club, and although the Glee Club has its own form of vitality and the tour was a delight, at times I felt stifled by a civilization whose best ac­complishments seem to be expressways and Burger Chefs. On the expressways, all the scenery becomes the same scenery, and all the landscape looks like the views on the Ohio turnpike between Toledo and Cleveland. Just off the highways are the chief eateries: Colonel Sanders', Howard Johnson's, Burger King, Burger Chef, Fish'n'Chips, McDonald's. The sign outside 
flavour of bletters have been consumed, and you know your lunch will be computeril:ed with the rest to send the sales total spiralling towards the ten billion mark, and a nausea rises in your throat. 
At night. there are the coast-to-coast motels: the Uptowners', the Downtowners', the Rountowners', the TraveLodges, the JiffiLodges, the Ramadainns, the Holiday Inns--anonymous bedrooms overlooking a parking lot, with the same plastic drinking cups, the same television set with re-runs of the Honeymooners, the same germ-free bathroom, with the same credential of sanitation pasted in a strip across the toilet seat. You wonder who, among the gypsies of the road, slept here last. Motel rooms keep 
more secrets than the grave; and there is no clue, no hint, no message except once, when there was a passage marked in the Gideen Bible; "Put not your trust in chariots." It sounded like the night prayers of a traveller who was having car trouble. 
After nineteen days of travel, I came home with the feeling that the New Eden has come a Paradise Lost of superhighways rushing on to the next roadstop of instant lunches and sleep-ins with anonymity: symbols of a Wasteland of a mass con­formity wherein man's capacity for wonder has sickened and died from hunger. 
I came home to the news of the political search for the Hero who can cure the Wasteland of its cultural, domestic, and social shabbiness--only all the heroes look as tired as the Jackie Gleason re-runs on the television of the motel rooms. To contribute to the general gloom, the Fisher-King, that gray victim, in a white house, of moral and spiritual impotence in national life, is trying to be his own hero of redemption. But ac­
McDonald's gives you the grim statistics of cording to the formula of the myth, the the eating habits of the nation: over nine patient cannot be self-cured, and the billion of these meat sandwiches with the_ sickness cannot heal itself. A health-bearing 
here, a messiah, must come; and after his vision of truth, the rains will begin, bringing­life to the desert places of the desOlate 
Kingdom. 

Here at Notre Dame, I have no feeling that the children of the Wasteland are ex­pecting a Hero to arrive who will cleanse the Shire. In the face of a continuous war, which is part of this generation's illness, I find two attitudes; <1l that what is needed is more student strikes, more demonstrations, more Masses on the quad, more teach-ins, more helium-filled balloons, more war-games in the motif of guerrilla theatre. Or (2) that we are doomed to be betrayed by politicians. Candidates are elected who pledge not to begin a war, or with plans for ending the present one. Yet war goes on, year after year. Politicians are dishonest men who never keep their promises. A plagu~ on all their houses ... 
The mood of a Wasteland is always characterized by despair, but those who believe in the myth have the hope that the hero and redeemer will come, possibly like Arthur. the king returned from Avalon to re­
establish Camelot, or like Frodo, the Hobbit of the Rings, emerging from Middleearth with Gandalf of the Gray Havens as his companion. But my own belief for a long time now has been that the Hero-to-come-is now among us. He is a corporate here, and he lives on the campuses and in the com­munes of the country, and sometimes serves in the Army. He is, then. not Arthur, not Frodo, not Kennedy, McCarthy, or McGovern. Rather he is all the young people recently come to adulthood who have ever dreamed of a world free of war and slums and poverty and hatred and sickness. To him has been given the vision of truth needed to heal the diseased and ravaged land, and his name is Youth. 
pete peterson 
centrating on the beer in front of me when someone said, "Aren't you Pete Peter­
son?" 
I looked up to see a short-haired guy in a sportshirt and windbreaker standing over me. "Yeah," I answered uncertainly. 
"I was at Notre Dame last year when you ran for Student Body President." 
"Oh, yeah, that was me." 
"That certainly was quite a campaign. Who was that guy you were running with?" "Rory Baruth. He's a junior out here at CU now." "Oh yea,? You guys living together or something? Sort of Student Government 
in Exile?" ·-· "No, actually I've only seen him once or twice since I've been here." "Me and my roomate both voted for you." _ "Thanks." "I thought you guys really had some great ideas. Too bad you didn't win." "Yeah, well, there were a lot of factors involved in that, you know?" 

l 
~ 
I 
...l 
l 



fr. robert griffin 
But the Hero who sits around bitching about the shiftlessness of politicians sounds 
as impotent as the rest of us. The Hero whose idea of a war protest is a march to the nearest draft board seems as tired as an old television documentary of Hubert Hum­phrey. What our Hero needs in not tired blood, but a rage and passion for the possible. To know the possibilities of an 
election year is the bit of wisdom that makes the difference between a hero and a dreamer. 
In the ancient romances, there is the story of a sword sunk deeply into a stone--only the rightful heir of the throne, Pendragon's son, can draw the sword from the stone and afterwards lead a generation of hero~s as the semi-Christian defenders of the causes of God. According to the romance, only the unknown boy, Arthur, was able to draw out the sword. 

Today again, in the Wasteland, the sword is ;;unk deeply into the stone. The sword and the stone is given, temporarily, into the keeping of this generation. It is the task of this Generation Called New to find the unknown lad, Pendragon's son, who can, on • behalf of all of us, draw the sword from the stone. and lead a generation of God's heroes as defenders of the causes of mankind. But the Hero who is Youth had better act quickly. because here in the Wasteland, no one. not even heroes, escape the death of the spirit for very ong. 
It rn.p_y sound like the stuff that fairy tales are made of, but in a Wasteland it is better to perish as dreamers than to live by the reality of fifty thousand miles of superhigh­ways leading nowhere but to the sandwich palaces where even now the minions of McDonaldburger are preparing their ten billionth tidbit of indigestibility. 

. "Yeah, well we'll see you around!" "Yeah, see you." I turned back to Fred, • 
who had not qute been convinced that the path to enlightenment started in John the Baptist's bed. We pulled on our coats and walked out into Dancing Delmar's tropical 
heat wave. It was snowing to beat hell. 

elton iohn superstar? wednesday 
the myth of the wasteland 
.. 
the observer Tuesday May 2, 1972
8 

An Observer news feature 


Previous 'life' through hypnotism 

by Dan'! Barrett 

"At first I was very confused-I saw a man and a cabin in the forest, but i didn't know who he was. And then I was the man; I was Tim Sykes and it was my cabin." 
"I was very proud of that cabin, because I had built it all bv mvself. I was a loner and liver in the forest because I didn't like people -they only got in my way." 
Bob Welly, president of Flanner Hall, is a member of an informal group experimenting with the phenomena of hypnosis. During one experimental session he was hypnotically regressed into the "former life" of a lumberjack which he describes above. 
Regression is a hypnotic prac­tice in which a person's con­sciousness is taken back until his early childhood, past that to his embryonic stage, and then further, into former life. 
First found in '54 

It is not a very will understood experience; its history dates back only to the 1950's when it was ac­cidentally discovered. Since then it has been investigated by many groups, but no real understanding of it has been attained. 
The accidental discovery came 
in 1954, when Virginia Tyge went to 
a hypnotist in hopes that he could 
cure her smoking habit. While 
hypnotized, she was made to recall 
events from her early childhood 
and gestation perwd. As she went 
back, she described things about 
her earlier life that she otherwise 
did not recall. 

That level of regression had been 
attained before, but this time the 
hypnotist experimented and 
allowed her to regress even fur­
ther. Suddenly she felt herself 
become an Irish woman by the 
name of Bri<h Murphy. As Bridie 
she could ac...ace a jig and speak 
snatches of Gaelic, something she 
otherwise could not do. 
Skepticism 

Skeptical investigators later 
discounted the regression by 
showing that when she was very 
young, Virginia Tyge had known a 
person who could dance the jig and 
speak Gaelic; but the wave of 
interest continued. One man even 
committed suicide, leaving a note 
explaining that he wanted to 
investigate reincarnation first 
hand. 

Interest in regression renewed 
about four years ago when a 
Campus book drive launched 
by Rt-dman Tyrell 

A campus Book Drive for In­
diana Prisoners was announced 
yesterday by Kathy Nagy, the 
coordinator for the Drive. 

The drive, sponsored by InPIRG 
and running from May 1-17, is an 
effort to supply desparately 
needed reading material to four 
Indiana penal institutions: Indiana 
Women's Prison, Indiana 
Reformatory. Indiana's Boy's 
School. and Indiana State Prison. 
Book donations well be handled 
on a hall basis. Nagy said. Boxes 
will be placed in the entrance or 
main lobby of each hall so that 
"students can conveniently rid 
themselves of book s they may 
want to give up," she added. 
InPIRG captains will be respon­
sible for each hall's collection. 

Almost any type of book will be 
acceptable, Nagy commented 
including textbooks, paperback~ 
and comic books. Magazine and 
newspaper will not be collected 
because they become outdated so 
quickly, Nagy said. 

Notre Dame and St. Mary's are the second and third schools in Indiana to begin such a drive. Indiana University began their program last week. Nagy ex­pressed confidence in the success of the collection drive, and said it would be continued next year if successful. 
dentist accidentlaly hypnotized his daughter and regressed her in to a life seventy years ago. In it she was able to correctly name her mother. father, siblings, husband, and offspring. Evidence showed not only that the names were correct, but also that the girl had no reason to know anything about the people. 
ND group formed 

The Notre Dame group started 
when T.C. Treanor contacted Mrs. 
Elizabeth Ryan. an experimental 
regressionist, and asked that she 
perform hypnotic experiments 
with the group. Mrs. Ryan con­
sented, and a meeting with the 
group was arranged. 
Mrs. Ryan started developong 
the groups capability to go into a 
trance the first night. First she 
told the group to stand up, close 
their eyes, and imagine they had a 
balloon in one hand and a bowling 
ball in the other. 
She repeated this suggestion 
over and over, and soon all the 
:students were tilting toward the 
hand they imagined had the 
bowling ball. The point of this, 
however, was not to put the student 
in a trance, but merely to show 
what Mrs. Ryan calls the "power 
of suggestion." 
How she does it 

Her technique for hypnotizing 
people seems to be down pat; the 
first step is to reassure the subject 
that she can not make him do 
anything under hypnosis that he 
would not do normally. The 
smooth delivery is calculated to 
allay all fears the subject might 
have. 
After this, she has him lay in a 

comfortable position, close his 
eyes, and just relax. Then she 
takes over with her voice; without 
letting the subject know it, her 
voice becomes very monotonous 
and unaccented, and he drifts off 
into hypnosis. 
The first stage consists of telling 
the subject to relax his whole body. 
Starting from the toes, Mrs. Ryan 
proceeds upwards, telling the 
person to relax each part, but 
keeping the same monotonous 
rhythm in her voice as she goes. 
Soon the subject has relaxed his 
whole body and is ready for the 
second stage of hypnosis. Here 
Mrs. Rayn tells him that she is 
tying a helium-filled balloon to his 
wrist, and that his hand watns to 
rise. The hand starts to slowly 
creep away from the body, at first 
inch by inch, but later in bigger 
stages. 
The hand never stretches 

straight into the air because Mrs. 
Ryan stops coaxing it up and tells 
the subject to let it fall. As he does 
so. she tells him to let his hand 
touch his fact; when it does so he 
will go into a deeper trance. 
A hesitanting hand is a clue to 

Mrs. Ryan that the subject is still 
unsure about going into a deep 
unwilling, the hand will not touch 
his face. Here, also, many people 
give up, realizing that they are not 
going under as they should. 
If the subject touches his face, 
Mrs. Ryar.• tells him to imagine 
that he is walking down a flight of 
ten stairs. While he does so, she 
counts off the stairs for him. telling 
him that when she gets to the 
bottom he will go further into his 
trance. 

At the end of three flights of 
stairs, the subject is usually in a 
deep trance and ready for ex­
perimentation. 

Welley's vision 
Mrs. Ryan actually succeeded in 
regressing two of the Notre Dame 
students, Bob Welly and Glen 
Corso. Welly was regressed 
through one life, while Corso was 
regressed through two. (By 
comparison, the dentist's daughter 
mentioned earlier in the story was 
regressed through fourteen lives.) 
What is it like to be regressed'? 
"At first I was skeptical and had a 
hard time visualizing things," 
Welly explained, "but things got 
better quickly. I saw the picture 
like you would in a nightmare -you 
feel as if things are really hap­
pening and you are right there 
participating." 

Bob was regressed back to the 
year 1670, when he was a lum­
berjack in Northern Canada. He 
was a hermit who never married, 
lived by himself, and had no use for 
other people. "It was strange," 
Bob explained, "because these are 
all things that are alien to my . personality." 
"After I died," Bob continues, "I 
felt I was drifting around for a long 
itme, and then suddenly I was on 
an old fashioned train. I felt very 
removed from everybody and later 
felt as if I was floating fifty yards 
above the train and looking down 
on it." 

2 lives for Corso 
"The train disappeared 
quickly," Bob said, "and Mrs. 
Ryan brought me out of my 
trance." 

Glen Corso, the second subject, 
was regressed back to 1750, when 
he was a blacksmith's apprentice 
in Philadelphia. The blacksmith, 
Jonathon Harris, liked to dance, 
but was not able to do it well. Both 
his parents were already dead by 
the time. 

Glen described growing up and 
marrying, and also his own death 
bed scene. He told of dying at age 
42, of a lung ailment caused from 
breathing around the forge. He 
said his lungs stopped breathing, 
and he could feel himself die. 
After dying, Glen saw the body 
from near-by, but did not want to 
return to it. Instead he was finally 
carried off in a swirling mist, until 
suddenly there was a very intense 
light all around. 

After drifting for a while, Corso 
felt that he became a civil war 
hypnosis. If the person is really lieutenant by the name of Billy 
Bedspace is needed for Alumni Senators for Thursday and Friday nights, May 4th and 5th. Any students interested in hosting these men please contact the Alumni Office immediately 
7267, 7268 

VOTE TODAY TO 6 PM EDWARD J· MALO FOR STATE REPRESENTATIVE (DEMOCRAT) Notre Dame, B· of Architecture, 1955 Supports: Christian values U· of Notre Dame Mock Convention Resu Its 
Fr. Hesburgh's Program 
Paid Political Ad 
Simmons. He described seemg 
General Grant, and realizing that 
it was the battle of Shiloh. After he 
saw Grant, however, his l'!':•l 
jammed and he was forced to ~ake 
cover. 
After the war Billy Simmons 
became a customs worker in New 
York. af:cording to Glen, and was 
stricken by a hcdrt attack while 
walking dowr. Wall Street in 1901. 
He died the next day. 
When Billv Simmons died. Mrs. 
Ryan brought Glen back to age 
three, ·where he tried to count to 
fifteen and recite the alphabet. 
"He messed the alphabet up quite 
badly," commented Treanor, "but 
he was able to count to fifteen." 
More mind control 
Participants pointed out that this 
and a number of other facts 
demonstrated that Glen was in a 
very deep trance--so deep that he 
lived out the part into which he was 
regressed. "At one point Billy 
Simmons was drunk," Treanor 
pointed out, "and when Glen acted 
this out his words became 
slurred." 
Mrs. Ryan also tried to progress 
Corso into the future, but admitted 
"this would be purely 
imagination." Glen bore this out 
when he was not able to predict the 
next day's lunch correctly. 
The regressions were not the only form of hypnosis with which the group experimented. Mrs. Ryan seemed to enjoy playing games with the hypnotized students; she even made Bob Welly forget his name at one point. 
"First she made me forget the 
number five," Welly explained, 
"and then she told me I would 
remember the number but forget 
my name. And I did that, too." 
Mrs. Ryan also gave Bob the suggestion that his cigarettes would taste terrible the next day, and according to Bob, "Every time I smoked it would just taste .terrible." 
Control of senses 
Perhaps the most amazing 
example of her control was when 
she told Bob there was no one else 
in the room. "All of a sudden the 
people became blurred, then they 
were just a bolb of color, and 
finally they were gone." 
Another time she told Bob that 
he was smelling perfume, and 
asked him what it smelled like. "I 
could smell a flowery fragrance," 
Bob admitted, "but I .knew damn 
well she didn't have any perfume 
there." ' 
Mrs. Ryan also used other 
students for these experiments. 
Once she told Glen Corso to get on his hands and knees and put his nose to the floor, suggesting that he could not move his nose. "You could see his muscles quivering and his whole body shook, but he couldn't move his nose," Welly claimed. 
Astral projecting 

The group tried two other ex­
periments--astral projection and 
self-hypnosis. Astral projection is 
an experiment where the sould is 
made to leave the body and is free 
to go wherever it pleases. 

"I could feel that I was trying to 
leave my body," claims subject 
Joe Abell, "but as soon as I tried to 
leave, I was snapped back. All I 
got were brief flashes of what the 
room looked like from three feet 
above my head." 

"I was disappointed," he con­
tinued, "becuase I think it would 
be great to be able to float around 
and go wherever you want." 
Self hypnosis 

Self-hypnosis was the other experiment, and it was only taught to two subjects, Tom Bornholt and Pete Freis. By using it they have been able to control their mind to the extent of being able to stop hicupping, remove fatigue, and even control muscle action. "I think it is really fantastic," Pete asserted, "it gives you a real control over parts of your body." 
Opinions 

What do the participants think of the whole situation? Maria Gallagher had qualms about the 
type of controUrs. Ryan had over the hypnotized person. "It looked like they were under her complete control," she •commented "The fact that she could look into people's eyes, count to three, and control them seems absurd." 
Pete Freis disagreed, saying "I only do what she asks because I really want to do it. But you do have to trust --trust a whole lot." 
"I really trusted her," explained Joe Abell, "but I also had con­fidence that the people in the room would not let her do anything 
wrong." 

How much faith do the students put in the regressions'? "I don't know," claims Joe, "I thing a lot of it is imagination." Freis felt the regressions were interesting but "did not put much faith in them." 
"I don't know how much faith I put _into the regression," Welly admitted, "But it is fascinating to see the way the mind works." 

6mercr/J 

CJeubg 
Sapp~ire 
18k. }ewefrg 
ccrl/11s . .. 
:l.JiamonJ !Import Companfl 
THE. ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS 
Seen by Appointment Suite 602 St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Phone 287-1427 


Tuesday May 2, 1972 the observer 9 
Circus maximus ==========================~=;=~=~=~=~=======~=:======:::=::::::::::::=~=~===:======================================'======='=:=======================:'=:,.;=:=:::'::::::::=========================================~=~=:=~=~=~================================ 

Indiana and Ohio: a study in J,nconclusiveness 
============================================================:===============================:=========================~==============='==='===========================================================================================:======================== Ellis 

Justice dept. ignored memo in ITT deal 
winners, two in undisputed con­K.C. Tiernan to the posts. candidates Mary Ellen Stumpf and tests, and a run-off in balloting A reelection will be held in Holy Gail Pocus, due to the close margin yesterday. Cross Hall basement Friday in balloting there. 


Juniors Judy Tweet and 
lener Ideal Make letter Can.


72 KACS. 73

Genivieve G Farrell, running unopposed. were elected president 
The Little Sexy European Car!
WHAT'S HAPPENING THIS WEEKEND
and vice president respectively in 
MERCURY
McCandless Hall. In another uncontested race, LeMans H.111 
(ans. on p. 4) 
CAPRI 
Meal tickets 
Buffalo Club Meeting 
May 2 .. flanner, Grace May J .. flanner, Dillon 
May 2 7:00pm 

May 4--Holy Cross, Lyons May s .. Howard, Kenan 
Room 1 1 04 Grace Tower
May 6 .. Aiumni, Zahm May 7--Badin, Walsh 
COME SEE METRO AND ASK ABOUT
Agenda: elections 

May 8--Stanford, Been Phillips 
OUR SPECIAL PURCHASE PLAN
baggage truck

May.. Sorin, Cavanaugh 
FOR COLL.EGE GRADUATES
May Jo..st. Ed's, Grace 
refreshments

May 11--Pangborn, Farley May 12--Morrisse·t. Fi<>cl"er 
·lr Information call John 6809 Dick 37 0 2 
Presidential primaries are deemed important for any of several reasons. First, they may show strength somewhat greater or less than that expected for any particular candidate. For this reason Wisconsin was important in 1972, since both George McGovern and George Wallace showed stronger than expected. 
Second, and related to the first, a primary may show a surprise victory, and start a trend, such as was started in Wisconsin. Thirdly, a primary may be a knockout blow to one candidate. Penn­sylvania and Massachusetts were this to Muskie--especially Pennsylvania. 
Neither today 's Ohio primary nor 
Today's Indiana primary are liable to do any of the three things that make a primary singularly important. Neither have had the great media buildup that was present in last week's contests, and as of now, there are no indications that anyone will score decisively in either one as far as delegate strength is concerned. 
OHIO 

In Ohio, Minnesota Senator Hubert Humphrey squares off with South Dakota Senator George McGovern. This is the first sharply defined race between the two. Edmund Muskie's demise has left most of his Ohio strength in disarray, Governor John Gilligan has refused to support either of the top two contenders, and the result seems to be a straight fight between Humphrey and McGovern, with Hum­phrey leading but McGovern closing fast with an extensive media campaign. The guess here is that Humphrey will win, 
by Robert M. Smith 

<C> 1972 New York Times 
Washington, May 1--Although he thought he had only three days to do so , Richard W. McLaren, former assistant Attorney Genral in charge of the Antitrust Division, strongly urged then Attorney General John N. Mitchell to seek a temporary restraining order to halt the International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation's acquisition of a major food vending company. 
In a memorandum to Mitchell submitted April 7, 1969, McLaren-now a Federal Judge in Chicago-called a preliminary injunction to stop I.T.T.'s acquisition of the Canteen Corporation "particular necessary." Despite this argument, the Justice Department did not move for an injunction and the merger with Canteen took place April 25, 1969. 
At one point in the memo, Mclaren wrote, "If antitrust is ever to take action to prevent such a restructuring of the market, this acquisition of a leading firm by the largest conglomerate is the one to challenge.'' 
The memo has been made available by the Justice Department to the Senate Judiciary Committee in connection with the recent hearings on the fitness of Richard G. Kleindienst to be Attorney General. The committee was given the memo with the proviso that it be shown only to senators and that they not copy it. A copy of the memo has been obtained by the New York Times. 
Later-after I.T.T. had acquired Canteen 

SMC election 
SMC hall elections yielded three voted though not by much. There will be a wide split in delegate count with 153 up for grabs. 
INDIANA 

In Indiana, Humphrey faces Alabama Governor George C. Wallace in the first straight confrontation of the year between Wallace and a party "regular." Muskie is also on the ballot, but gave up cam­paigning in Indiana long before he gave up campaigning altogether. The state labor leaders favor Humphrey in general, though Wallace has had some en­dorsements and the party machinery favors Humphrey. Wallace, however, has large areas of support, especially among the 63 per cent of the state categorized as blue collar. 
Humphrey has emphasized his status as a party regular, implying heavily that Wallace is not a true Democrat. One of the Minnesota senator's television shorts has blamed Wallace for Mr. Nixon's victory in 1968, and for the first time tnis year, Wallace has been attacked vigorously on his record as Alabama governor. Aiming straight for the blue-collar vote, the "regulars" have cited Alabama's low blue collar wage average, Alabama's low 
education standards, and Alabama's alledgedly poor crime record. 
Wallace has countered with attacks on 
Humphrey's campaign tactics, saying that 
Humphrey, as well as McGovern and 
Muskie, have stolen his issues. 
Despite the heat generated in the state, observers rate the contest a toss-up, 
-the government sued to break up the merger. It lost in the trial court. However, when the Justice Department subsequently settled the Canteen case and two others with I.T.T., the huge conglomerate agreed to give up Canteen while keeping other properties. 
In the recent hearings McLaren told the Judiciary Committee that three factors had persuaded him not to seek an injunction to stop the Canteen Merger. He iden­tified these factors as shortness of time, a hardship plea by Canteen's management and "the novelty of our theory--according to some". The phrase "the novelty of our theory" referred to McLaren's position ­not shared by his predecessors --that the government could act to stop conglomerates from merging with other companies. 
The memo clearly shows in its seven pages that McLaren felt that--even when he thought he had only three days--the government could get a preliminary in­junction. Second, it demonstrates, in a section titled "Legal Precedent for the Case" that McLaren felt that his theory, thought it might be novel, would prevail. 
In the second paragraph of the memo, 
McLaren wrote: "We can reasonably ex­
pect consummation of the merger on or 
shortly after April 10. "He sent the memo to 
the Attorney General on April 7. 
In the section on precedent, McLaren 
wrote : "We relied upon this theory in at­
tacking the acquisition of Penick and Ford, 
TD. by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. 
In that case, we were denied a preliminary 
injuction because the district rourt placed 
holds no surprises liiUlN-MIIUIY 
juniors Regina Ivory and between 11:00 and 6:30 between heavy reliance upon testimony of the 
Reynolds' officers that they would not 
engage in a reciprocity program... We 
would hope to convince the courts in this 
case that an injunction should sue and that 
the court erred in Penick and Ford.'' 
· Summarizing his concern, McLaren wrote: "We believe that this merger would create a vast complex of buyer-seller relationships not enjoyed by any competitor of Canteen. This would give Canteen an unfair competitive advantage. Canteen's position as one of the nationwide firms in the vending field, and as a leader in the in­dustry, makes the danger of its position being further enhanced through reciprocal dealing of substantial competitive significance.'' McLaren, in other words, feared that 
I .T.T. would not only use Canteen to feed its own employes in its many plants, but would also use its great economic power to induce its suppliers to use Canteen's services. 
Elsewhere in the memo, McLaren wrote: 
"Canteen and its franchised distributors are the largest organization in the United States in the business of retailing food and related items through coin-operated ven­ding machines. They are one of the largest organizations in the business of providing in-plant feeding and vending to industrial plants. I.T.T. Industrial plants are part of the market for companies like Canteen. 
"l<,urthermore, I.T.T. makes purchases from many companies which are actual or prospective customers for Canteen. We contend that through vertical integration depending heavily on three facets: the Muskie vote, the McGovern vote, McGovern is not on the ballot, and the Republican crossover vote. All three depend on how much influence labor leaders have over the rank and file. The guess here is Wallace, but very close. This is based on the report from State Democratic chairman Gordon St. Angelo that a good number of crossovers are expected. In Wisconsin this helped Wallace, and in Indiana it should do the 
same. 

No Gain for Anyone 
Given a close Humphrey victory with a big delegate split in Ohio, and a narrow Wallace victory in Indiana, we can draw few strong conclusions about the future. Should McGovern or Humphrey win big in Ohio, the loser would be in sad shape in­deed. Should Humphrey win in both states tomorrow, but big in neither, his bid would be much stronger, and McGovern only 
slightly weaker. These possibilities, however, do not seem likely, given what we know now. 
Consider now the potential effects of the Indiana primary on the Wallace show. A defeat might damage his drive seriously, since he has come since Florida without a major victory. Admittedly, his candidacy is not of the sort that requires constant reinforcment. A substantial percentage of the vote would be enough to "send his message." However, there comes a time even for Wallace when he needs something new to talk about. Indiana has always been Wallace country, and a poor showing might stall his drive, or at least make it hesitate in Michigan on April 16. 
A Wallace victory, of course, will boost him greatly --especially a victo~y over the 1968 nominee. Despite this, it will not kill Humphrey. 
A Long Shot Gets Shorter The man, then, whose future is most explicitly on the line today is George Wallace. But consider the effect on the party of a split today between Hum­phrey in Ohio and Wallace in Indiana, given of course a respectable showin~ by McGovern in Ohio. Simply, the delega~es are badly splintering. McGovern and Humphrey show strength in spots, and Wallace holds down a healthy bloc of his own. Rather than turn to Wallace to break what looks like a deadlocked convention, perhaps the "regular Democratic party" will turn elsewhere for a compromise. Perhaps the party will turn to Edward M. Kennedy, despite his avowals of disin­terest. In all, 281 delegates are chosen today, including 29 in Wallace's home state of Alabama, where he should win easily, and 15 in the District of Columbia. An inconclusive set of primaries will help no one, and 281 convention votes will have passed on if all goes as expected. Should this pattern continue, even the 271 votes in California might be insufficient to break a deadlocked race between McGovern and Humphrey. In­conclusiveness will push Kennedy to the fore. But more on that Thursday. 
and reciprocity this acquisition will foreclose a substantial portion of the relevant markets from competition, en­trench a leading firm, raise barriers to entry and very likely trigger similar mergers by other leading food and vending firms. 
"Food and vending has traditionally been a service business where the small in­dependent who was willing to work hard could compete effectively. A few mergers of the sort we have here could seriously change that healthy industry structure." 
Under the heading "conclusion," McLaren said, "I recommend that the at­tached complaint be approved and that we be authorized to seek a temporary restraining order pending a hearing on a motion for preliminary injunction." 
Me .aren has refused to be interviewed by reporters concerning the I.T.T.MXXX 
Under the heading "Conclusion," McLaren said, "I recommend that the attached complaint be approved and that we be authorized to seek a temporary restraining order pending a hearing on a motion for preliminary injunction." 
M~.._,aren has refused to be interviewed by reporters concerning the I.T.T. antitrust cases. He could not be reached for comment today. 
At the Senate hearings he originally testified that shortness of time and Can­teen's management problems forced him to abandon the effort to get an injunction. Later, however, he modified this by telling the Senators of a meeting of I.T.T. an 
Canteen lawyers with Kleindienst. 


the observer ·Tuesday May 2, 1972
10 


If you think Kodak is just pretty pictures,you ought to have your chest examined. 
elude convenience for the patient, economy for the hospital,When a chest x-ray shows that you have a potential an even more useful tool for the radiologist-and, most impor­
killer like TB or cancer, it's not a pretty picture. But it's an important picture because it can help the doctor detect and tant, reduced radiation exposure. 
Researching and creating better x-ray films is goodcatch the killer in time. 
for our business, which is why we went into them in the firstWhen doctors are out to catch these potential killers, place. But it does our society good, too-which isn't a badthey want the sharpest, clearest x-ray films they can get. And feeling. After all, our businPss depends on our society-so we
that's why people at Kodak spend so many hours creating new and better x-ray film equipment. Already, the results in-care what happens to it. 
f.CI More than abusiness. 

ND netmen capture Huskie Invitational 
by Eric Kinkopf winning the consolation brackets lack of time due to inclement of the doubles action after being
The Notre Dame tennis team, weather. 
ousted in the first round of
capturing four of the six singles 
championship play. Each team was awarded six
championships, and one of the points for a championship or twodoubles trophies, easily out­Coach Fallon was extremely points for every victory leading up
distanced an eight-team field in pleased with the overall to the individual crown. Twowinning the Huskie Invitational performance of his squad. 
points were also awarded to theTournament at DeKalb, Illinois on ''I'd have to say we did very teams with winners in the con­
the Northern Illinois campus last well. We put five out of six of our solation brackets.
weekend. singles players into the finals of The victory marked the third fairly tough competition. And The Irish won the tournament 
straight year that Coach Fallon's those who won did so rather con­with 38 points, followec! hy Indiana charges have either won or shared vincingly." State with 25. Miami of Ohio 
the Huskie crown, the deadlock totaled 24, Northern Illinois 20,
"All the fellas were playing the
coming last year when the host Illinois State 16, Ball State 9,
caliber of tennis they're capable of 
team, Northern Illinois, took ad­Western Illinois 5 and Northeast
playing. And it's a good time to 
vantage of a poor performance by Missouri o.
start coming around with a tough
Irish number one singles plgyer 
match against a strong Indiana The victory will not be counted inBuster Brown for a share of the team coming up. We're finally the Irish spring slate, which stands 
title. 
beginning to round into shape, at 10-3.
But this year it was a different 
although perhaps a little late after 
story, as Buster avenged his Today's scheduled match with
that earlier loss to Cincinatti." 
Indiana University has beenshowing af last spring when he lost The Huskie pairings were based postponed indefinitely due toin the first round of both the 
on a draw with the ten point pro conflicts with the Hoosiers' finalchampionship and consolation scoring system used because of a examinations.
brackets by taking number one singles to lead the Irish rout. iHE SHAPE OF THINGS TO COME. 
The Irish net captain got the resident racqueteers off and flying by defeating last year's champ, Tom Gullikson of Northern Illinois, in the opening round and outlasting Roger Converse of Indiana State, who had heated him earlier this year, in a close match for the title. 
"Last year Buster didn't play well at all", coach Fallon com­mented, "but this year he was just great. He was placed in the tougher half of the draw and had to come up the hard way. And to top it off, the boy he beat for the championship had defeated him earlier this year." 
Mike Reilly, was the only Irish double champ, taking the number three singles crown and _tearr.ing with freshman John Carrico to annex the number two doubles title. 
Other Irish individual champs were Brandon Walsh, who won at the number four position, and Rob Schefter, who captured the number five singles crown. 
John Allare just barely missed making a shambles of the com­petition as the senior lefty lost a sudden-death tie-breaker to Don Brown of Miami of Ohio at the number two singles position. 
The other doubles combos of Brown-Allare and Schefter-Kane The Irish soccer team posted a quarter tally but the Bearcats each earned points for the Irish by pair of victories over the weekend closed the gap to 2-1 before half­
in Ohio, edging Cincinnati, 3-2, on time on a penalty kick.Golfers 2nd Friday and trouncing Miami, 5-l Another penalty kick enabled 
on Saturday. Cincinnati to tie the score in the second session but Moghadan'sin ND event Jafar Moghadan provided Notre boot secured the Irish win.
Dame with its margin of victory 
The ND hooters had an easierby Tom McKenney against Cincinnati, booting a home time with Miami as captain Bruce 
a second half penalty kick, while
Notre Dame's golf team was Graves, Tom Shriver and
Jeff Noonan scored two goals to
unable to overcome Ball State's Moghadan joined Noonan in the
lead the Irish past Miami on a
classy performance Saturday and· scoring parade while Mike
soaked, slippery field in Oxford.
had to settle for a second place in Farrelly, Rick Eichner and goaliethe Notre Dame Invitational Bob Donovan gave Notre Dame Carl Straub kept the Redskin at­tourney. an early advantage Friday night in tackers at bay.The impressive Ball State team Cincinnati's Astro-Turf stadium, The Irish, now 2-1, will be in 
swept the first three individual driving in a rebound of a Mike action again Thursday, hostingplaces-to finish with a team total of Machin shot. Jeff Noonan upped Northwestern at 3:30 behind 732 for the 36-hole tournet. The the Irish lead to 2-0 with a second Stepan Center. 
medalist for the meet was Steve Seibel. Seibel shot a one under par 70 in the morning round and 

Ruggers lose 2 in tourney
managed a 73 on the afternoon 18 It just hasn't been a good season kick by Ed O'Connell accounted for for a one over par total 143. 
·Freshman Mike Kistner was the for the Notre Dame rugby club this all of the Irish scoring in their first low man for the Irish, finishing spring. Since winning the Gator round game. fifth in the individual competition Tournament over spring break the In the consolation match the 
with a 148. Mike LaFrance and Irish have dropped four straight 
Notre Dame lost 10-8 to the 
Marty Best both finished with 151, contests including two shutouts. Volunteers of Tennessee. The Irish 
followed by Jeff Burda at 152, Most recently the Irish ruggers 
were never really out of this game, Chuck Voelker at 153, and Gary were victimized by Navy and but the Vols' ability to capitalize on 
Quinn, 154. Tennessee. Over the weekend the one of their conversion attempts
In spite of Notre Dame's good scene was Washington and Lee made the critical two point dif­
overall performauce and their University and the event was the ference. 
second place finish, the Irish National College Tournament. 
Irish tries in this game werestroke total of 752 was a long 20 Notre Dame was eliminated scored by Terry McCarthy and Joe 
strokes off the hot Cardinal pace. from the 16-team field by a strong Hafner.
U. of Cincinnati was third with Midhipmen squad that managed to 760, followed hy Northern lllinois, put 10 points on the scoreboard in The tournament was· won by 770, Indiana State, 782, Eastern the first half while the Irish Palmer College. Michigan, 785, Central Michigan, remained scoreless. This weekend the Irish will be 791, Aquinas College, 793, Though the second half was quite hosting their own invitational 
Wisconsin-Milwaukee, 796, U. of anotehr story, with the Irish tournament with teams from LSU,
Detroit, 801, and Wayne State, 829. outscoring Navy 13-6, it still was Kent State and Colorado State Next weekend, the Irish will not enough to overcome the participating. The tournament travel to Bloomington, Indiana to Middy's early lead. will start at 1:30 Saturday behind 
compete in the Northern In­Tries by both Dave Simpson and Stepan Center with the finals tercollegiate Championship. Jim Carr, and a successful penalty slated for Sunday. 

Tuesday May 2, 1972 1 1 
Notre Dame net captain Buster Brown led his club to the title in the Huskie Invitational Tournament ov.er the weekend by capturing the number one singles crown. 
J1m. Dona ld
s on:l::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::::~=~=~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~=~===========:=::::::::::: 

The Irish Eye 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::The defense rebuilds 
Joe Yonto, George Kelly and Paul Shoults are football coaches. They direct the activities, of respectively, Notre Dame's defensive line, linebackers and defensive backfield. But, in another sense, they may be considered construction workers, for all three are busy this spring rebuilding the Irish defense. 
With the sidewalk superintendents seated in the stands looking on with avid interest, Yonto, Kelly and Shoults have set to work making major repairs on Notre Dame's defensive edifice that thwarted so many op­ponents last fall. 
With eight regulars gone from the '71 defensive unit that allowed a mere 8.6 points per game, the coaching staff has no small task to ac­complish. Tackle Greg Marx will be back to serve as the cornerstone on which to build, as do linebackers Jim Misuraca and Jim O'Malley, but after that veteran trio come only inexperienced ballplayers. 
Three years ago, coach Yonto faced a similar dilemma. Ends Bob Kuechenberg and Tom Nash and tackle Eric Norri had graduated, leaving Yonto only standout tackle Mike McCoy to anchor the line. Yonto found three promising sophomores, Walt Patulski, Fred Swendson and Mike Kadish, to team with McCoy and there weren't many slubs that were able to run on Notre Dame'~ "inexperienced" line the next fall. 
"I'd be almost asking for a miracle for things to work out like that again," Yonto says. "We were lucky once, I don't know if we'll be so lucky again." 
"We hope that Marx will be our leader," Yonto continues. "He's a hard worker and a fine competitor. But at the other three spots, we lack experience." 
Freshman Kevin Nosbusch and junior Dick Maciag are fighting for the job of being Marx's running mate at tackle. Both have plenty of size but little playing time. 
The same situation prevails at the end spots. 'Freshman Mike Fan­ning looks like the top prospect to date, ranking just ahead of Tom Freis troffer, Jeff Hein, Tom Fine and Gorge Hayduk 
"He's a hard worker and he moves well but he'll have correct his mistakes," Yonto says of the 6'6, 245-pound Fanning. 
The fear of mistakes looms large for secondary coach, Paul Shoults, who has had, to start building from scratch this spring after losing his regular deep trio of Mike Crotty, Ralph Stepaniak and Clarence Ellis. 
"We're missing some fine players and a lot of experience at positions that demand experience," Shoults comments. "Playing in the secondary leaves a player open to criticismfrom the press and fans. We'll have to find out how the new candidates respond to pressure. That'll be their big test." 
"We've got pretty good speed this year, although we don't have a big, strong back like Stepaniak," Shoults continues. Ken Schlezes runs a 4.6 40-yard dash and played quite a bit last season. Reggie Barnett does 4.5, Mike Townsend, 4.65 and Terry Garner, about 4.7. 
Shoults has been pleased with theprogress of his top four deep backs, remarking, "They've come along as well as could be expected con­sidering the shortness of spring ball. They are progressing fairly well and I expect much improvement to come in the fall when our workouts become more exacting." 
At least George Kelly has plenty of material with which to build his linebacking corps. In addition to the veterans, Musuraca and O'Malley, no fewer than nine people are battling for starting berths.. Pat McGraw, Drew Mihalic, Sherm Smith, Gary Potempa, Mike Webb, Greg Collings and Brian Clemente, as well as Tim Sullivan and Tom Devine who are recuperating from injuries, may win a starting berth next season. 
"I know that we can put people out there that are capable," Kelly relates. "Most of our players are lacking game experience, but not practice field time, which is almost as valuable." 
Kelly rates Musuraca and O'Malley at the top of his list and says of some of his other prospects, "Sullivan was doing well before he hurt his knee and Devine is recuperating, too. McGraw is having his best spring and youngsters like Mihalic and Smith have played real well. Potempa has improved his pass defense and that's make him a more complete linebacker." 
"I'm most pleased with the situation right now," Kelly says. "We have a lot of people competing for open jobs and who have great hopes of contributing. Two things that we will have to work on are a lack of quickness and knowledge that results in mistakes." 
The lack of experience and kn_9wledge will present a problem for the Irish in the early weeks of the falC But, with Yonto, Shoults and Kelly as architects, ~"llotre Dame could once again build a sturdy defensive wall. 
...­

• 
1 2 the observer · Tuesday May 2, 1972 
Stickmen top Columbus 

Who is the first girl in your life? 
MOM 
Mother's Day May 14 
GET WITH IT! ORDER EARLY 
... 

Phone 272-2966 Class of '48 

by Andy Scantlebury The Notre Dame lacrosse team closed out its home season on a victorious note Sunday afternoon, stopping the Columbus Lacrosse Club 9-2 behind Stephan Center. A large crowd took advantage' of the beautiful weather and saw the Irish break open a close contest with a seven-goal second half barrage. The game, however, was by no means decided until midway through the third quarter. Up until then, the Irish were sluggish and Columbus kept close, taking ad­vantage of the numerous Notre Dame errors. Junior Dave Jurusik put the Irish on the scoreboard with a "man up" goal at 10:07 of the first quarter. The one goal lead held until Columbus' Charley Fit­zgerald tallied at the 3:33 mark of the second quarter, climaxing a great clearing play by the Columbus defense. Bill Dacy gave the Irish a 2-1 half time lead with a picture play goal at 12:06, but Columbus had visions of an upset. Throughout the afternoon, Columbus played with only two midfield units and this was the key to the game as Notre Dame wore them down in the second half. After Notre Dame's Jim Bingle and Columbus' Tom Lyle ex­changed early third period goals, the Irish took over offensively and tallied six straight markers. Rich Mullin and Jurusik closed the third quarter scoring with goals at 9:26 and 14:33 respectively. Middie Jim Brown continued the Irish scoring spree in the fouth quarter with his fifth goal of the year at 2:48. Then, it was at­tackman B. J. Bingle's turn. The talented junior, a sure bet for post season recognition in the Midwest, tallied twice, at 9:09 and at 11:03. In between his goals the consistent Steve Tarnow scored and the Irish had their eighth win of the year. Despite the nine goals, Columbus goalie Jay Lehr was sharp making two impossible stops on Bingle and freshman John Corcoran . Insh goalie Paul Simmons played well in picking up his fifth victory of the year. He had plenty of help from his defense, however, especially defenseman Tim Baker, who undoubtedly was the star of the game. Playing in his final home game as an Irish stickman, the senior from Towson, Md. was spectacular, blocking shots, 
IE-;r:~~ ••,. ~., •"" 

clearing the crease with vicious checks, and thrilling the crowd with several rushes as if he were · lacrosse's answer to Bobby Orr. The deserving Baker was awarded the game ball by his teammates. 
The Irish stickmen close out their season Saturday at Chicago against the Chicago Lacrosse Club. A victory will give the Irish the Midwest Lacrosse Club title. 
ND trackmen fare poorly 
by "Lefty" Ruselmann Members of the Notre Dame track team went to meets at three different locations over the weekend, but turned in generally subpar performances. 
The bright spot in Saturday's activity was at the Penn Relays in Philadelphia, where freshman Greg Cortina placed third in the shot put event with a throw of 59 feet, 2 inches. Greg also took fifth place in the discus throw with a toss of 151 feet. 
The shuttle hurdles team, which competed in the Drake Relays at Des Moines, Iowa, had a disap­pointing afternoon. The foursome of Jack Gerwe, Tom and Mike McMannon, and Pat Mullaley failed to qualify for the finals. However, Tom McMannon did get as far as the finals in the 110-yard high hurdles but finished fifth. Team captain Elio Polselli also reached the finals in the shot put and discus events, but he could not place. His best throw with the shot put was 55 feet, 6 inches, while his best discus toss was good for 164 feet. Throughout the meet, in­termittent rainshowers played havoc with competitors' times and made for lower caliber per­formances. 
Other Irish runners who did not go the Des Moines or Philadelphia competed in the Ball State Relays in Muncie, Indiana, where Notre Dame's sprint medley team placed third. 
This afternoon, Notre Dame will compete with some 15 other colleges in the Indiana State Meet in Lafayette. The Irish, along with Indiana and host Purdue, are the top squads in the field, and Notre Dame rates a strong chance at the team title. 
..·· 

,.,.~ t ...L L..;~t: ry•:~~..,~
j: _t.·~ ,~r:: -, ­
Steve Tarnow, pictured here in action against Michigan, has been a nightmare for opposing goalies this year. The talented freshman is one of the leading Irish scorers. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: stopwatch. Identify. Don 3374. 
Lost: ND classring. Gold-Purple stone. Rob. 8152. Reward. 
LOST: Around Easter. light­weight ND jacket, possibly qlasses in pocket. reward. Call 3134. 
LOST: tan corduroy jacket in room 118 O'Shag. call 1742 or 1751. 
PERSONALS 
Yesterday was my birthday but nobody cared Jack Greeley 
p.s. got a dime? 

Hey Aunt Ween, I like you even with the hiccups. Your nephew, Jimmy 
B.S., Fee B., J.W. A tawdry cheapness will outlast our days. (L.B.) Good capers, though. Ree-ee-ee. Thomas P. 
Dear Secret Admirer. Pretty Swift. See PZ1W8923 pg 131. Paul. 
Dear Secret Admirer Please come forth. Paul's driving us nuts. (signed) His roomates. 
ND nine at Hillsdale 
by Stan Urankar 
Notre Dame's varsity baseball 
squad will finally get a chance to 
play at Cartier Field tomorrow, 
but not before taking to the road 
once more, travelling to Hillsdale 
College today for a doubleheader. 
Nine games remain on the 1972 
NO hardball schedule, with six of 
those contests under the shadow of 
the Golden Dome. Michigan in­
vades South Bend Wednesday 
afternoon for a twin bill, while still 
another Mid-American Conference 
team, Bowling Green, will visit 
Cartier for a three game, two-day 
series this weekend. 

Single games at Western 
Michigan Monday and against 
Valparaiso here on Tuesday will 
draw the curtain on the 39th season 
for Irish coach Jake Kline. 
Rick Eich and Mike Riddell, the 
workhorses of the Notre Dame 
pitching staff this year, are the 
scheduled starters in tomorrow's 
doubleheader. Eich, a junior 
southpaw, will be looking for his 
fifth win in six decisions this year. 
Riddell, called by Kline "the 
most consistent pitcher we have 
this year," shackled Butler in his 
last outing to win his second game 
against three losses. The junior 
righthander leads the Irish mound 
corps in innings pitched (35 and 
one third), ERA (4.56), and 
strikeouts (34), while surrendering 
only ten walks, three of those 
passes given intentionally. 
Hard-hitting Rob Reschan is 
continuing an assault of the ND 
record books. The sophomore 
third baseman has six home runs 
to his credit, only four short of the 
mark set by Rich Gonski in 1964. 
The RBI title is likewise within his 
reach. Reschan has 24 to day, with 
John Carretta's 34 runs knocked 
home in 1960 the mark to shoot for. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Need ride to Minneapolis. May 4 or 5. Call Tilly 5745. 
WANTED: we will do typing anytime for reasonable prices. Especially on short notice. Call Chip 8256 or Mike 6963. 
WILL BUY: working refrigerators, couchs, chests, ilnything of value. Call Mrs. Cooper, 272-3004. 
Responsible woman over 30, grad student. To house sit. mid-June through mid-August. In exchange for place to live during summer school. Local references. Call 
312 324 0043 after 7 pm. 
Typing: term papers. technical reports. thesis, dissertations, resumes, professionally done. Selectric chanqeable type ma­chine used. Prompt service, tree estimates. 24 hour. Phone 233­9466. EXPERT SECRETARIAL 
SERVICE. 
Will work on Vol kswagens 12 
years experience. Reasonable Call after 4 pm. 272-3980 or 272· 2765. 
WANTED: Metal file cabinet; used 3-speed bike. 232-6796. 
Wanted: 2 white girls for personal international correspondence. must be over twenty. call 283-7982 
1

for information. 
Ride desperately needed to N.J. this weekend. Dan 8427. 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: Two (2) $5.50 Elton John tickets. Call 1687 anytime. 
For Sale: 2snow tires and chest of drawers. Bob. 8251. 
35 mm Minolta. Camera reasonable. Call after 6 pm. 259­3573. 
Seniors selling furniture: two couches, corner bar, rocking chair, rugs, stereo, cushion chair, book case, end tables, curtains, small icebox, dressers, albums etc. call 1079. 
For Sale: 1 fantastic Boys · Girls 20" beginner bicycle. Low mileage very few dents. Call 272­1885 after ·6 pm. 
1969 Fiat 850 Sports Coupe. radials, snow tires, Priced tor quick sale. 233-6059 after 6 pm. 
1960 Red VW 41,000 miles. Good transportation. $150. 289-4940. 
STEREOS: at student discount rates almosi any brand. You can't afford not to call us if you're buying or thinking of it. Call Tom 
1327 or 1318. Mateco Marketing. 
Realtone Stereo. Tape deck. AM­
FM  radio.  BSR  turntable.  Air  
suspension  speakers.  $95.  Call  
1246.  

SAVE ON RECORDING TAPE! Cassette, Reel, and S-Track; Ampex, BASF, Memorex, Sony or TDK. Call Don 3729. 
CAMERA: CANON FTb like new. Call 234 9765 after 5 pm. $195. 
1970 Triumph GT6, Dark Blue, excellent condition. AM-FM radio, Pirrelli Radials, new lransmission. Call John 232-4135. 
Engagement rings, watches, complete line Hallmark rings. Waltham watches. Tremendous savinvs. 313 Morrissey. 3575. 
Quality Oil and gas filters at wholesale price. 288 7004 or 8908. 
'69 VW bug, light blue, 4-speed stick, excellent condition. $1195 firm. Bill Lavage. 259-0225. 
PHOTOGRAPHERS: must sell new camera system: Honeywell Spotmatic, telezoom 2x MAG, etc. Call Jerry 8849. 
1967 Triumph TR-4 conv, wire wheels, radial tires, dual exhaust. 48,000 rn;jes. 233-1912. 
Refrigerator: GE. big freezer. too big for campus . cheap 8125. 
For sale. Portable 8-Track stereo tape player with AM-FM radio condition. Call John 1642. 
FOR RENT 
Furnished house. 1 story. 3-4 people. 272-6174till noon, after 430. Available May 4, 1972. $140.00 
---· ----------­
House tor rent. Summer only. 2 blocks from N D 3 to 5 bedrooms. $175 mo. Call Julie 4549. 
House for Summer students 4 bedroom house. completely furnished, 11 > baths, shower in basement. washer and dryer. Phone 232-7180. 
----------------·­
Cottages on Lake Michigan Shore for rent. GINTARAS RESORT. 15860 Lake Shore road. Union Pier. tel. 616-469-3298­
Two six bedroom houses, com· pleeely furnishe, including utilities. available May 20 thruough august. 234-9364. 
One and two bedroom apartments available May. Utlities furnished 234-9364. 
"' 
Rooms with Kitchen. Now or Fall. Girls only. $45. Also tree summer rent for painting house. 
NOTICE 
Will make clothes. Reasonable. Have some on hand now. 272-6174. 
ANY TYPING DONE: 232-0136. 
Baggage truck to OMAHA. Dennis 1747 or Kevin 1215. 
Baggage truck to ALBANY, NY area. Call Larry 1854. 
Met club baggage truck to Long Island only. Space limited to first 70 $5 depositers. Sign up at 432 Zahm from 4-28 to 5-2. between 6-8 pm Any questions call 1883. 
Grow Aborad this summer ... a month of carefree travel onlyour won in Europe ... plus four weeks of study in art. music, photography, drama o,· French. Growth through experience and 
instruction ... isn't that what it's all about? $695 from New York. Call Joe McDonough, campus representative. American In ternational Academy. Phone 234­
3465 or 283-7024. 
Student Union Charter Flights to Europe. 5 departures and returns. All different dates on sale at the Student Union ticket office, 11; 15 . 12:45, 4:00 . 5:00. 
SUMMER STORAGE: New bldg.­dry and clean. Will pick up and deliver. Mrs. Cooper. 272-3004. 
The Student Union will be closed from May 4 on. It Will reopen September 6. 
Parts and Accessories for Im­ported Cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North. (Roseland). 272-7187. 
Students: 7 Day Caribbean sailing package. Beautiful San Jaun. 
Puerto Rico. Sail, swim surf, snorkle. mountain and Mangrove trails, deep sea fishing, for­tresses, islands, 'Flamenco dancers, and Steel bands. All expense paid exciting week of sailing and entertainment aboard a PEARSON 26 Fiberglass sloop. Only $150 (plus air tare) Hurry! Only limited space. June lOth 
June 30th. Captain John Ladd, 
Box 5141, San Juan P.R. 00906 or phone 725-0139 (AC 809). 
CONNECTICUT RESIDENTS: New Haven club is sponsoiring a baggage truck which will stop in several cities For infor call Paul 7954 or Jess 3610. 
MCAT. DAT: Summer home study review and testing program for the Medical-Dental Admission Tetss. For information write: 
Graduate Studies Center, Box 386, New York, NY 10011. 
To whoever stole my wallet from the Convo: keep the money. Send back the cards. GFR. 
Words lda 2da 3da 4da Sda 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-IS 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-201.301.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 







