
no more frostbitten ears (for a while anyway) as the wind's gonna die down. sizzling twenty­five degrees today; and it might even snow. 


Vol. VI, No. 67 serving the notre dome -saint mary's community Monday, January 31, 1972 
Barkett: Female dorms to be revealed 
by .h•rry Lutkus Ohst•rv('r Nt•ws Editor 
Student Body President John Barkett yesterday predicted a decision this week on which "dorm or dorms" will be used as women's dorms rwxt year. The SBP also claimed that the seareh for a successor to Fr. Thomas Blantz as vice-president of Student Affairs is the "the most important thing to happen here this year." 
Barkett ruled Pangborn, Fischer, Dillon, Flanm•r. Alumni and Grace Halls out as womt'n's dorms because of their locations and rooms. lie claimed that the towers were out ()('cause of their size. contending that "Notre I Jamt' is not ready for a co-ed dorm yet." 
Tht• dorms that the SBP mentioned as 
possibilitil's were I .yons. Howard, Morrissey, Sorin. Walsh. or Badin. On a "hunch," he ruled out tht' North Quad. though "Zahm and <'avanaugh could be considered." 
Finally. he ruled out the Stanford-Keenan l'ompll'x, which many students had suspected to ht• the University's choice. Barkett said that the hall was all doubles and the dorm "must have soml' flexibli ty for the girls." 
Ill' feels that the best way to house male students displaced by the influx of females would lw "on a quota system with the other halls. 
"I'm sure that the halls chosen will be upset," lhl' SBP contended. "It's a question of what you want more," he argued. "Somebody's goint to have to leave if they want women to liveon t•ompus." 
Barkett also suggested that the newly­admitted girls be allowed to eat at both dining halls if they all live on one quad. "It's not fair if llwy eat just in one dining hall." 
Th(' SBP said that there will be a need for ·rapabl(' womerl' in the Dean of Students office 

Barkett: Decision on women's dorms for­thcoming 
and to take the jobs of rectors and R.A.'s. Ac­eording to Barkett, a need exists for "someone to fight for the girls. They are going to be terribly outnumhered'and Barkett hopes that the new l't'dors and !CA.'s will be able to handle what eould he termed "a very delicate situation." 
Barkett tl'rmed the search for Blantz's suc­l'l'ssor "crucial." The vice president for Student Affair's serves the Dean of Students, the Director of St udentHesidences, the campus ministry, and tlw eounseling services. "The University has finally awakened to the fact that a highly qualified man is needed fortheposition," Barkett :-;aid. 
Barkett said of Blantz: "He's an excellent man. hut he belongs in the classroom. He had very little administrative experience." 
si~l' Barkett said he hoped that the new man will be given free reins to re-organize the office so that it might handle problems in the fields of drugs, off campus student living, sexuality, the n•sidt•nt'l' halls, freshman orientation, and the social and academic life of Notre Dame. 
Barkett is the only student on the seven-man \'in•-Pn•sidential search committee and he eonsiders his appointment to the committee quit(' a breakthrough, calling it a "step in the right direction." 
Barkett also came out against all plans to merge the Notre Dame and St. Mary's student hodies. 
"As long as there are two Administrations and two Boards of Trustees, there is the need for st•pl'fatl' representations at the schools," 1\arkelt siad. contending that, "They< st•parate student governments l can see the problems hetlt•r." 
Barkett said that a good way to solve the problem would be in running four-candidate t iekcts. through both universities. He had "no rl'al opinion on it", though, just as long as "there an• two !\Cts of offices. That is crucial." 
Thl' position left vacant with the resignation of fornwr St. Mary's SBVP, Missy Underman should he ll'ft vacant, according to Barkett. The SBI' thought that the filling of the vice president's post was unnecessary. "They should appoint a temporary replacement or leave it open." 
Barkett. also revealed that he had writh•n to l lnivt•rsity President Rev. Theodore lies burgh and asked him to follow a recommendation the Board of Trustees set forth earlier in the year by appointing a ('Ommittee to investigate the 
(continued on page 2) 
Lindsay makes unexpected showing 
Muskie No. I in Arizona preli~inary 
<(') I!172 Nt'w York Times News Service 
Phoenix, Arizona--Sen I<:dmund S. Muskie of Maine won 38 per cent of the delegates in yesterday's Arizona Dl'mocratic presidential voting, more than any other candidate, final figures showed yesterday. 
But the two liberal candidates in the race. New York City Mayor John V. Lindsay and Senator George McGovern of South Dakota, took 44 percent between them, a potent showing in one of the nation's most conservative states. 
Lindsay, who waged an intensive media campaign that aides say cost $18,000Cin­dependent estimates are closer to $30,000) l'dged out McGovern, who had been at work in the state much longer. 
The results appeared to establish the mayor, in his first election contest outside New York City, as a viable contender for the Democratic presidential nomination only a few months after he switched from the Republican party. 

They also showed, however, that McGovern, whom many politicians had 
considered overmatched by the Mayor's Sen. Edmund Muskie of Maine faces down New York City Mayor John Lindsay in Arizona. Second­personal magnetism, could give him a 
ranked Lindsay (left). a liberal surprised speculators by his show of strength in a supposedly con­race. servative state. But the question of who will win the ultimate face-down is still very much up in the air.
The Arizona results constituted a 
stunning triumph for the democratic Convention on February 12, at which 25 that Arizona's delegation to Miami Beach clobbered almost everywhere." But he,party's reform rules in their first national convention delegates will be would contain< with slight deviation like other party leaders, said he wassignificant test. Designed to open the party chosen. Because it was not authorized by possiblel 10 votes for Muskie, six for delighted by the new selection system.
to broad public participation, they did just state law, the balloting was run by the Lindsay, five for McGovern, and four Aycock said early this morning that it
that here, as rank-and-file voters chose party, not by the state. Cumulative voting uncommitted. would be possible to send to Miami Beach,students, blacks, Indians, Mexican­was used. 
Included in the uncommitted block were among the four technically uncommittedAmericans, peace activists, justices of the 
supporters of Jackson and Humphrey, delegates, a Humphrey supporter, a peace and a nun as delegates. With results tabulated from all 30 candidates of organized labor, and .Jackson supporter, a Union man and a
In 1968 five prominant democrats met in legislative districts, the final unofficial members of the State's black caucus. representative of the caucus. a series of closed meetings to name totals of delegates gave: Muskie, 189; The uncommitted effort of the State lll're, as in Iowa earlier in the week,
Arizona's dele~ation to the Democratic Lindsay, 118; McGovern, 102; Hubert H. Labor I<'ederation, which followed the Muskie emerged as a clear winner, but he National Convention; Saturday, more than 
Humphrey, 2; Henry M. Jackson, 2; Vance national strategy of the A.F. of L.-C.I.O. was unable to generate the strength his:15,000 people went to the polls to take part. llartke. I and Shirley Chisolm I, while 85 was the day's major failure. managers had hoped for. In the view of
Under Arizona's unique new delegate­delegates were uncommitted. 
Darwin Aycock, the Federation's liberal political observers, he slipped a bit.
selection system, party members voted for Because party rules leave little room for 
secretary-treasurer, who was himself Muskie came into the election with the500 delegates to the State Democratic maneuver at the state level, it appeared heaten for delegate, said, "We were backing of most of the State's I )<•mocrats 
Page 2 THE OBSERVER Monday, January 31, 1972 

Mock Stocks Open to All 
by Mark McLaughlin 
The fourth annual Mock Stock Market of the Finance Club will begin its first day of trading tody. Open to both faculty and students from Notre Dame and St. Mary's, the Market operates in order to give all interested persons "a greater understanding of the workings of this very fascinating American institution," according to a release from the Finance Club. 
In return for a one-dollar en­

trance fee, each trader receives $10,000 credit with which he may make transactions of the Market. Stocks can be bought and sold at the price stated in the Wall Street Journal on the day of the tran­saction. All stoeks listed on either the New York Stock I<:xchange, the Midwest Stock Exchange, or the Over-the­Counter Market are eligible, and the Finance Club will keep a complete record of all tran­
sactions. 
The prizes in this contest will amount to a total of $150, and are to be divided in two categories, best short term appreciation and best long term profit. Active trading will continue until February 25, when all portfolios will be closed and a prize will be awarded to the contestant who has realized the largest profit. From that point on no more trading will be allowed, and on April 28 the portfolios will lbe examined again, with the final prize going to the person with the greatest appreciation over tlhe three month period. 
The club has ont yet deter­mined the precise amount of prize money. 
The Mock Stock Market will be located in thelobbyof the Hurley Building, and will be open from 
10:00 until2:00 each day Monday through 

Treasurer notes financial state 
by Andy Winiarczyk 
Student Government 
Treasurer Cass Regent last night 
had some optimistic predictions 
for this year's finances. 
"Financially, we are in very good 
condition. We should end up in the 
black." 
Regent said, " The Student 
Union has spent about $24,000 out 
of $37,500 that was appropriated 
by the Student Senate. That 
means that they will have left 35 
percent of their budget for the 
second semester. The Student Government has used 
almost $4,500 out of $15,00 that 
was given to them by the Student 

Senate. They will have 70 percent 
of their appropriation left for the second semester." 
He added, "It is quite possible that there will be a transfer of $3­4,000 to the Student Union from Student Government. If the Union exceeds its budget. All of the other organizations on campus have received a total of $20,000 from the Senate. The Leadership Institue is the only group which to this date, has filed a financial statement." " In order to achieve a balanced budget we will just have to control our spending. aizf we can do this it will be the first time in years." In 1967 there was a debt of $22,000, in 1968., $52,700; in 1969, $73,200; in 1970, $30,100; in 1971, $13,400. The fiscal year will end on August 31 

Fund begun for nuns 
by Chris Sullivan SMC Education professor Sr. Maria Concepta McDermott and Special Services director at Indiana University at South Bend Harry Marnocha, are co­ordinating a fund-raising effort to 

Barkett 
(continued from page 1) 
Student Center or hall facilities 
The SBP was uncertain if there would be any renovation of the halls and student center over the summer. Yet. he asserted, "the eommittment is there to do something." 
"The new student center is inevitable." Barkett claimed. ·'It's an expensive building, but it will eome. It's a matter of when and I think it's at least five years away." 
Presently. Hall Life Com­missioner. Bob Higgins is working on a facilities survey of the halls. but Barkett said that the action is to come from the Administration down. 


Involvement '72 
Student Government is holding 
Involvement '72 Night tonight in 
the Library Lobby between 7 and 
8:30. 
Display table will be set up by 
campus groups and students can 
stop to talk with people involved 
in the different activities. 
Its purpose is to let campus 
activities recruit news members 
and to let students know what's 
going on this semester. 
About 20 groups plan to attend 
including the Free University, 
Pakistan Relief, InPIRG, Big 
Brothers, Sister Marita's Day 
School, and the Ecology Club. 
Any groups wanting a table 
need only show up with a sign at 
7:00. Students from both cam­puses are more than welcome. 
cover the cost of tuition and books for two nuns from Uganda, East Africa, who have recently enrolled at IUSB. 
IUSB tuition currently runs to approximately $1200.00 per year. 
The African nuns, Sr. Im­maculata Biteeko and Sr. Agnes Kabuhire of the Daughters of St. Theresa order, will complete two years of study at IUSB to fulfill the requirements for B.S. degrees in Education. The two have marticulated at colleges in Edinburgh, Scotland, and Lon­don. Their travel has been financed by the Congregation of the Holy Cross. 
Srs. Biteeko and Kabuhire both expressed a desire to become headmistresses of government schools in their homeland upon graduatioon from IUSB . Both have experience as ad­ministrators in Ugandan schools. 
While attending the university, they will stay at the Holy Cross convent at SMC. 
Contributions may be sent to Mr. Marnocha or to Sr. McDermott. Checks should be made payable to the Sisters of the Holy Cross, Africa Fund. 


@i·Y 
10 % OFF 
On any ·mechanical work and winterizing 
For Students and University Personnel 
Roseland Gulf 
402 U.S. 31 North
Across from 
Burger 1\.ing 
SUNG VESPERS 
Sunday's 4:30p.m. Mon -Thurs 7 pm Lady Chapel -Sacred Heart Church 
ALL WELCOME 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Student Union Social Commission presents 





RICHI,E HAVENS 
WITH SPECIAL GUESTS 
THE WINTER 

CONSORT 
Sunday -Feb. 13th 7:30 p.m. 

Ticket Prices 
$4.50, $3.50, $2.50 
Ticket Sales Begin Tuesday Feb. 7:00p.m. the Fiesta Lounge 
LaFortune Student Center 


Bill Kelley Romy Hammes Fordland C'huck Hamilton 
Joe Hayden, Inc. 1102 South 11th Street 
244 South Olive Niles, Michigan 49120 
South Bend, Indiana 4662ll (616) 683-3920 
(219) 289-4041 



Bob Atkinson Jordan Motors, Inc. (i09 East Jefferson Blvd. Mishawaka, Indiana 46554 r219 l 259-1981 





RENT·A·CAR 
For students and faculty 21 and over. 
FOR INFORMATION & RESERVATIONS CONTACT 


.-----------------------------------------­
_M_o_nd_a_y_,_Ja_n_ua_r_v_J1_,_19_7_2____________________________T.~1fE OBSERVE~ 
Pa e 3 




ND student for SMC office 

h.Y Bub Lang 
1\ Notn• Dame student is the sole candidatt• thus-far for Plection to tht• n•t·ently vacated office of Saint 1\lary's Student Body Vice I'resident. pJcction Chairman .J;uw Seymour revealed today. 
.John '<;aal. a government major from FlannPr llall. made known Sunday his wish to run for tlw post. formPrly held by Missy llndPrman 
Th(' qtwstion remains as to wlwthPr tlwre will be an election. 
"Hight now. it's rPally hard to tl'll. hut with only on£' candidate, it reallv doesn't look like there will ht• 'orw" Miss SPymour said. 
/\t a nwl'ling of thP SMC l·:xl'l·utivl' Cabinet Sunday ('Vl'ning. it was decided that the Saint Mary's Student Assembly would take action on the matter at tht>ir rwxt mPeting., Wed­rwsday night. 
/\ceordinr to Miss Sl•ymour."tbd·e is nothing in the proeedurP manual against (a mal£') running. "The con-

Mardi Gras lacking 
Mardi Gras is in serious trouble, according to festival chariman, Greg Stepic. 
"There just isn't the great involvement by every one to help make the Mardi Gras program a success, because of this, the policy of charging admission-­instituted last year-will be eontinued," Stepic said. 
Admission charges will vary from a dollar to fifty cents depending on the day. The final day will be free. 
Stepic contended that the charge was necessary to keep the Mardi Gras festival alive. 
"I hate very much to have to do this. It would be very nice not to have to handle any money at the door. however. there seems to be something missing from a few years back when Mardi Gras was making over $20,000 a year. There just isn't the great in­volvement by everyone to help makE:' the program a success," StPpic said. 
Many people," he added, "put forth an effort in Stepan center constructing the booths that are set up and its a shame that their pfforts and the efforts of myself and my committee may ~lave to 


lRANSCENDt.llrtAl NlfPITATION 1$11 NA'IURIIL SPONTANEOUS 
TECH,.IQUE WHIC:H AllOW~ fACI-I INlJIVIOUAl TO [XPANO 
IU~ MIND AND IMPROVI'. HI~ LifE 

Introductory Lecture 
NOTRE DAME ROOM 103 O'SHAG 
8:00 -TONIGHT 
" 
1l'• ,, 

111 11
!!: I" '::,, . ., '!II '"',,, .. ''II'· ""'ut; 11ll',,;',lllh '"'~,~~!Ill';, .lllll.,"':,illi,' 11 ',,,;11ijll.:::"illli''tnl//u,,ilmJ::::";mii,'' 111i",,'~IIJ ::';~!~ '""!llii~ 11 ';",.'1111::;; IIIII: 
Seymour: SMC election still in doubt 
stitution. as it now stands, calls for an l'lt•ction." 
Miss Spymour did say, howt•vt•r. that "the assembly may make an addition to the pro(·pdural manual to provide for anotlwr nwthod of selecting the inh·rim VP. due to the ex­h·nuating circumstances." 
SMC Student Body President Kathy Barlow was not available for comnwnt. 
Gaal explained the rationale behind his candidacy. " I realize that the short 
Stepic: "There just isn't the great involvement 

be in vain if this year's Mardi Gras is not a success." 
Stepic blamed poor raffle ticket sales for the bad financial position of the festival. $3,000 worth of tickets have been sold to date. 
While Stepic conceded that this result was parallel to last year's performance which he termed a success, "this may not be the case this year." 
"I have indications which lead me to believe that this will not be the case. With overhead of ap­proximately $15,000 Mardi Gras is once again in danger of losing money as it did three years ago," Stepic predicted. 
duration of th(' term will hamper tlw l'fft'elivcness of whomever is dell'd or chosen to this position. llowl'vPr. I hop(' that the mere fact of my candidacy will pave tlw way for a more active in­ll'IThar;gl' of ideas between the two eampuses. and lead to the ultimatt• unification of the two St udPnt Covernments," he said. 
I 

A HARD PROPOSITION TO BEAT? 
If you get the feeling you're spending too much time with the books ... we may have the solution. Ours is a course in reading efficiency that means we teach more than speed. Our course emphasizes study techniques, recall skills and flexibility of rate as well. Let us demonstrate to you the dynamics of today's most comprehensive 
reading course in a free Speed Reading Lesson. 
INCREASE YOUR READING SPEED 50 TO 100% ON THE SPOT! 
TODAY 6, and 8, pm TOMORROW 6, and 8 pm 
FINAL TWO DAYS! 
THE CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION Notre Dame Avenue Across From The Morris Inn 
EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 
ON CAMPUS MAIL 
Pickup: 1:00 Tues.-Sat. Deliveries: Residence Halls (N.D. and i St. Mary's). Academic Depts., and 
Administrative Offices. (Not to Gilbert's or Bookstore). No Stamps Needed Use Full Address 



IT'S 


Page 4 THE OBSERVER Monday, January 31, 1972 



world briefs 
<cl 1!172 New· York Times 

Washin~ton--Secretary of Defence Melvin R. Laird announced that no men would be drafted before April at the earliest--meaning that tens of thousands of men who were born in 1951 and who had no defermC'nts at the end of last month will escape the draft forever despite their low draft numbers. 
Washington--American intelligence sources in Washington reported that North Vietnamese and Vietcong units in South Vietnam have been told to prepare for "decisive" attacks against American and South \"ietnamese positions during President Nixon's visit to China. The sources added that the infiltration of North Voetnamese troops had inrreased substantially over last year. 
San Francisco--A spokesmand for the Hughes Tool Company suggested that some of the material used in the controversial "Autobiography" of Howard R. Hughes compiled Clifford Irving might have come from a computer owned by the company. The eomputer has a bank of information about Hughes's life. 
on campus today 
7:00 . 8:30 --involvement '72 night, Library lobby. 
6:00 .. lecture, msgr. spiers, orestes brownson society, faculty dining room, south dining hall. 
10:00-2:00 --trading, mock stock market, hurley business bldg. 
8:00 --lecture, tran­scendentaI mediation, 103 o'shag. 
7:00 --try-outs, hamlet, nd­smc theatre. 


nd-smc 
lnPIRG to seek funds next week 
Notre Dame's chapter of the Indiana Public Interest Research Group <INPIRG) is organizing a campaign in the various halls that will be in full swing by February 14, according to leader Bill Rahner. 
Consumer advocate Ralph Nader, who concieved the idea behind INPIRG, will appear on campus Thursday, Feb. 17th at 8 pm in Stephan Center. His talk is being sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission. 
The chapter plans to petition the administration to add a $3 per year fee to student tuition bills to hire lawyers and other experts to work for INPIRG. 
Other Indiana colleges in­cluding Indiana University and Purdue, are presently par­ticipating in INPIRG and are planning similar drives. If all the colleges agree to add the $3 fee the state fund would total $300,000 per year, according to Rahner. 
A student board consisting of two representatives from each participating Indiana school will be elected to hire the professionals and assign projects to them, Rahner said. 
Results would be achieved by publishing their findings, lob­bying for their cuases, or, if necessary, taking cases to court. Similar programs already un­derway in Oregon and Minnesota have hired workers at $9,500 salary per year. 
Coming Soon 
DUKE ELLINGTON 
HAVE YOU GIVEN MUCH THOUGHT TO WHAT YOU'LL BE DOING TOMORROW? 
Finding a job that gives you satisfaction isn't easy today. Not in a world as con­fusing and com­plex as ours. 
But the Paul­ist finds a fre­quent joy in his own way of life and values that are lasting. 
As a Paulist he may counsel a run­away youth, listen to the problems of a senior citizen, or­ganize a Home Mass or a forum on nar­cotics. Because Paulists have al­ways been pioneers in communi­cations, he may communicate through the printed word or through mass media such as radio, films or television. 
Whatever tool he chooses, the Paulist gets his "message" through. 
Can you think of any other life that will provide more inner satisfaction for you? 
For more information about the Paulist priesthood write to: Rev. Donald C. Campbell, C.S.P.,Vocation Director, Room 
PQliiStfcthets. 
415 West 59th Street 
New York, N.Y. 10019 




PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Sign up this week for job interviews for the week of February 7 · 11 
Interviews are open to ND and SMC seniors and graduate students. Sign-up schedules are in Room 207, Main Building. Select your own time and sign your name. Room 207 will be open at 8:00a.m. until 5:00p.m. each day, except Friday. 
Consult the Placement Manual for additional information regarding interviews and procedure. 
FC'b. 7 EBASCO SERVICES, INC. BS in C. E., M.E., E. E. and M.E.N.O. BS, MS in Environmental Sci. and M.E.N.O. 
INLAND STEEL CO. GENERAL OFFICES, CHICAGO. Any degree acceptable for Sales Trainee ilnd Customer Service Trainee positions. BBA in Finance or Accounting or MBA with majors in these fields for Finance Trainee position. 
INLAND STEEL CO.. INDIANA HARBOR WORDS. BS in M.E., M.E.I.O E. E. and C.E. All degree levels in Met. and Ch.E. BBA in Acct. 
NORTHERN INDIANA PUBLIC SERVICE COMPANY. BS in E.E., M.E., C.E. and Ch.E. BBA in Acct. 
OWENS ILLIONOIS, INC. BBA. 
SEARS. ROEBUCK AND CO.-DATA PROCESSING. Will interview all students regardless of major llut would prefer those who have had academic exposure and-or practical experience in the field. 
Feb. 8 ALBERTO CULVERCO. BS,MSinEngineering. AlldegreelevelsinScience. BBAandMBA. SANTAFERAILWAYCO. BSinE.E.,M.E.andM.E.I.O BBAandMBA. 
Feb. 8 & 9 FORDMOTORCO. BBAinAcct.,Fin.,Mgt. MBA. BSinM.E.andMEIO. 
Feb. 9 COMBUSTIONENGINEERING,INC. BSinCh.E.,C.E.,Engr.Sci.,M.E.N.O. BS,MsinM.E. CORNING GLASSWORKS. (Changedfrom Feb.23.) BBaandMBA. MOBIL OIL CORP. BA and BBA. PURDUE UNIVERSITY. BUSINESS OFFICES. BBA and MBA. 
r Pb. 10 AETNA L1 FE & CASUALTY.. GROUP DIVISION. BA and BBA. CONTINENTAL CAN CO. BS in M.E., M.E.I.O and E.E. BA and BBA. OTISELEVATORCO. BS,MSinE.E.andM.E. BBAinacct. PROCTER & GAMBLE CO. Plant Management. BS, MS in Ch.E., M.E., E. E., M.E.I.O. and C.E. 
MBA with technical undergraduate degree. WHEELABRATOR CORP. BS, MS in M.E., Ch.E. and C. E. 
Fcb. 11 
CONTINENTAL CAN CO., INC. MBA. INTERVIEWS SCHEDULED FOR WEEK OF FEBRUARY 7 -11 
Cultural Arts Commission's Performing Arts Series Presents 
Pearl Lang Dance Co. 
Mardi Gras ''Destruction Party'' 
(for all who work on Mardi Gras Construction) 
Tues. Nite 10:00 Senior Bar 

All SM C GirIs Invited Beer Free! 
Tues. Feb. 1 8:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium 
$1.50 P .A.S. Patrons Free 

Monday, January 31, 1972 THE· OBSERVER Page 5 
gamma 
What ever happened to the university 
What ever happened to the university Alluring promises of an academic Hopefully, in their next meeting both produce nothing more than a few fifteen­which claimed its role to be the education merger have proven false, and those who parties will show some awareness of their minute martyrs. of students for a mature and responsible matriculated at Saint Mary's College with responsibilities towards both institutions, Legal action is in this case groundless, role in society? Where are those who hopes of a Notre Dame degree find they private education, and Catholic education for false advertising is rampant in our praised openness, honesty and integrity as were naive enough to deposit confidence as a whole, and be able to cope with the society, and there's no such animal as a virtues to be encouraged here? Certainly where it was not to be placed. Being naive personal sacrifices required to demon­'straight' colle~e recruiter to be found not in ad hoc committees who reverse is no crime or fault, but a stage of strate the authenticity of their dedication. anywhere. Publicity then remains as a policy decisions at whim, or in meetings to development everyone passes through Maybe with a little 'give and take' in course of action. This will be difficult coordinate class schedules with dining hall during the gradual acquisition of settling existing differences something within the radius of Notre Dame's in­facilities, or in offices making threats to knowledge towards an informed constructive can be expected. fluence, but this influence does not extend intimidate students and student judgment. The crime and fault, however, During one of the recent confrontations, to everyone's home town newspaper. This organizations when these set out to con­may well rest upon the shoulders of those a university official allegedly claimed that is not a simple task, for it requires the duct a legitimate investigation of obscure who profess a dedication to providing the students were not mature enough to un­translation of voiced concern into action, practices. And what about dining hall means for developing such a judgment, derstand the reasons for the failure to and too often in the past this translation managers who bring up a pet paranoia in and yet seek to pull the wool over the eyes reach an agreement on this merger. Many has proven to be inefficient. 
order to cover up for administrative of their students. inability to stay within their budgets ... to 
As a university, we can place no claim to 
the further inconvenience of students? 
academic excellence as long as the basic 
Let's include them, too, lest the "costs of 
principles taught here are overtly violated 
education" suffer another astronomical 
by administrative policies, and policy
increase while salaries are further 
reversals. Students in both schools are 
squeezed in order to make ends meet. 
taught elements of psychology, sociology, 
Whether we call such events 'spades', or 
management, business ethics, and a 
follow certain trends and settle for 
healthy share of common sense only to 
'agricultural implements' as a safe and 
leave the classroom and find more than 
vague and non-committal definition, the 
the number of exceptions required to 
diagnostic is the same: we are all prove the rule. matriculated in a very, very, very sick institution, or pair of institutions. Now a promised merger has fallen 
Here are two religious orders, through because of an evident lack of presumably related in name, but never­ability --on at least one side -to set theless branches of that great reasonable terms. Granted that financial conglomerate and accumulator of wealth terms are difficult to set and meet, which issues sermons and doctrines of budgets must be revised and adjusted, service and solidarity from a city called depts paid, etc. --but these have been the Vatican. Two orders, struggling disclaimed, or rather evaded, as the issue against the world and each other to divert at point during last week's meeting, and their attention from the death pangs of personnel problems have become the their own organization as well as those excuse. Such an explanation doesn't seem caused by the gradual emancipation of the to hold water. The merger has been built institutions which they have nursed for up as a means of survival for both in­several generations. Here is also an stitutions, and unless there has been more assembly of both clerical and lay direc­than the usual amount of demagogism in tors, officers, administrators, and staff this build up, it hardly seems to be characterized by the extraordinary reasonable to imperil the whole for the competence of a few, the extraordinary sake of a few personnel. Quite to the incompetence of many, and the run-of-the­contrary, such a reorganization would mill mediocrity of many more. provide a unique opportunity to relieve And here is the fruit of many hopes, this ailing community of some of the dead many dreams, and many hours of devoted weight responsible for blunders such as 
work and study: a miscarriage. those mentioned above. 

Pearl Lang:natural movement 

Somewhere in the archives of our minds, Several of the pieces, such as one called often haphazardly stored beneath "Shirah", make great use of ritual in "theatre" is a genus "dance", including biblical dance drama. Some are futuristic such species as jazz, ballet and modern. with electronic music, while other, less Of these, the last is ironically the least exotic ones include classical music. familiar. Tomorrow evening, however, at One of the most widely performed O'Laughlin Auditorium there will be works is an adaptation of Brecht's presented a singular opportunity to view "Mother Courage aatd Her Children" modern dance, with the appearance of the entitled "The Brood", which combines Pearl Lang Dance Company, one of the music of the 1940's with masked figures in leading four or five modern troupes in the an anti-war production. All of the com­United States. positions, however, illustrate the technical 
Formerly a celebrated dancer with prowess of an excellently-trained group. Martha Graham, Miss Lang organized her The music and natural movement of company in 1952. Since that time, she has modern dance can artlessly bind space also choreographed over thirty-five works, with time, and it is probably that the adept both for her own troupe and for other Pearl Lang company will accomplish that American companies, as well as for the in their performance here. The experience Netherlands National Ballet and the should be a very exciting one. 
students resent this type of paternalism There are many ways in which such a towards themselves, and towards the campaign can be carried out, and in times faculty, who were no less informed, or of need we have found no match for the misinformed. As a simple matter of fact, resourcefulness and creativity, so I shall the outcome to date seems to indicate that make no pretense of strategic leadership. immaturity lies elsewhere. The whole In conclusion, I would like to point out affair parallels a gathering of two groups that both administrations have demon­of children, each with its own set of rules strated a rather cavalier attitude towards for the game, and neither willing to part the entire problem of coeducation, failing with the obsession of leading and winning to discern between the task of eduction and the game. Unable to discuss terms that of coercing the student into a frame of maturely, both groups picked up their toys moral and religious conduct. They have and stormed out of the playground. (Was failed to make any but a token effort to it, perchance, that the "personnel recruit some of the professional expertise problems" involved personnel present at available among their faculties in order to the meeting?) Needless to say, we can all exercise a true religious leadership in the expect some bickering about one group community, simply because power and running off with another's toys. In any control are autonomous to this objective. course of events, neither side lost, and This is indeed a very unfortunate situation, neither side won, and the game was never but hopefully, when both administrations played. Of course the students of both iron out their differences regarding the institutions lost, but students are students, merger, they will be able to channel their tney come here to college, dish out a few efforts towards the true goals of Catholic thousand dollarr, and go. That's all. education. 
There are only two ways to stimulate some action from the Notre Dame and St. Devotedly in Notre Dame, Mary's bureaucracies: legal action, and gamma adverse publicity. Confrontations are but confrontations, and usually result in nothing more than inspiring rhetoric and P.S. -my apologies for remaining tiring demagogism -yes, more of that. anonymous, but my untenured position is Boycotts may or may not prove that the quite vulnerable to administrative limits of student tolerance have been retaliation, and I would much rather have surpassed, but they definitely will increase certain personalities devote their energy the burden of upcoming final exams. And towards the soul-searching this letter is demonstrations will most probably intended to inspire. 
Morton Kelsey 



Jung:Life and Work 
From the Life and Work of C. G. Jung: throughout twenty volumes of his collected Aniela Jaffe, Harper and Row, New York, works, are gathered together by a com­1971, 137 pp. $2.25. petent student. If parapsychology has theological implications, no theologian interested in an empirical theology can 
Aniela Jaffe's book shows once more afford to miss this study. that a package cannot be judged by its Jung believed that there is empirical size. In four brief essays about C. G. Jung Pvidence. derived non-experimentally, for she has lifted our picture of this man and the reality of an autonomous, non-physical his work off of the ordinary person's flat organizing factor which affects both the eanvass to give it dimension and per­human psyche and soma. Men, he found, spective. Each of these studies takes up come to wholeness and maturity only as some aspect of Jung's life and thought they relate to this reality, and to the which is either little understood or parapsychological phenomena that often misunderstood--subjects which the author accompany it. These conclusions were is well qualified to discuss. For twenty influenced by Jung's study of alchemy, ~·ears she worked in analysis with Jung, as which offered historical evidence of ex­secretary of the C. G. Jung Institute in periences similar to those of Jung and his Zurich. and during his last years as Jung's patients. Mrs. Jaffe provides a simple and private secretary, and as editor of Jung's definitive analysis of Jung's study of biographical reflections, Memories, alchemy and its relation to parap­Dreams. Reflections. The present slim sychology. volume is a much needed, most adequate Her last two chapters are of particular companion and addition to her former interest to those who are already work. fascinated by Jung as a person. She offers 
The first two essays are of immense a most comprehensive study of Jung's value to anyone interested in religion. controversial stand towards Nazi Ger­Here the findings of the most impressive many during World War II, showing that 
modern student of the parapsychological neither the critics nor his devotees have are carefully and clearly detailed. For the dealt with what actually happened. Jung, first time Jung's comments on these as she delineates, was never a Nazi strange reaches of the human mind, sympathizer. Instead, during the first references which are found scattered years of the Nazi revolution he made a 
&t~naDaoce~mpaey~I~acl.The~~~~-~~~~~~~---~~---------------, serious error in judgment, and this, in fact, 
was one thing that he always regretted. 

compositions emphasize the traditional 
In the concluding essay Mrs. Jaffe tells

elements of modern dance, rather than 
what it was like to be Jung's secretary.

extreme or controversial technique, and 
ThP Hap Center is a switchboard and referral service helping people with a wide 
The explosive and touchy side of Jung is 

are thus accessible to the ingenue as well 
,·:u·iety of hassles. A lraining course for volunteers will be held during a two-wee~ 
described. as well as his incredible in­

as to the acclimatized dance viewer. 
perioJ hN(inning on January 31. Persons interested in working at the center and 
tuition and kindness, and thus she leaves 

Nevertheless, that for which Lang work is 
t;t!king to people shoudl sign up at 209 Western Avenue or caH 289-7986. 
us with a disarmingly honest and human 

renowned is the brilliantly original 
portrait of a great man. No one interested 

organization of those "classical" modern 
in Jung or in empirical religion can afford 

dance movements into a whole. 
In pass up reading this little book. 
Page 6. 


Grapplers pln• 
by T.C. Trt>anor Fanning's victory, his twelfth 
A second-period pin by massive consecutive pin. came on the freshman heavyweight Mike heels of 190 pound Al Rocok's 12-2 Fanning earned the once-beaten triumph over Larry Dulay. The Notre Dame wrestling team a ten-point victory won Notre dramatic 22-21 victory over Dame four team points at a time previously undefeated John when they trailed John Carrol by Carroll University. nine, 21-12. 
Swimmers split pair 
The Notre Dame swim team 
split this weekend in dual meet 
action, beating Bradley 
University, Friday, 59-46, and 
losing to Illinois State, Saturday 
afternoon, 66-47. 
The Irish tankers took seven 
first place ribbons out of the 
twelve events, in the victory over 
Bradley. 
The most important first place finish came in the 400 yard freestyle relay. Had the Irish lost that event, the Bradley swim­mers would have left the Rockne pool with a victory instead of a loss. 
But the ND quartet of Jim Meagher, Joe O'Conner, Jim Kane and Gene Krathaus, took the event, and in record time. The clocking of 3:23.8 gave the Irish the victory as well as the meet record. 
All told, seven meet records were set in the competition, three of those by Coach Stark's swimmers. 
Other Irish first place finishes were recorded by Jim Kane, 200 yard freestyle, Gene Krathaus, 50 yard freestyle, Mike Fahey, 200 yard butterfly, Joe O'Conner, 500 yard freestyle, Jim Fisher in the 200 yard breaststroke, and Larry LaFratta in 3-meter diving. 
Saturday was a different story. 
Joe O'Conner paced the Irish with two blue ribbons, but didn't receive much support from the rest of the Irish. 
O'Connor captured the 500 yard freestyle, and swam in the 400 yard freestyle team that copped a· first in that event. 
Two other ND swimmers joined O'Connor in the winner's circle, Jim Kane in the 100 yard freestyle, and John Balthrop, who won the 200 yard backstroke. 
The weekend action left Notre Dame with a 4-2 record. 


Trackmen top Miami 
by John Wick The Notre Dame track team breezed to victory over Miami of Ohio Saturday by a score of 87-44. Despite the abscence of Mike McMannon and other team members because of illness, the Irish succeeded in placing in all of the events, showing, in coach Alex Wilson's words, "a highly competitive team effort". 
In the field events, freshman Greg Cortina put the shot to a new school record of 59'8" with 
Ellio Polsellii taking second place. Kevin McAuliffe managed a first in the long jump and later placed second in the triple jump behind teammate Tom McMannon. 
The sprinters, led by freshman football player Erie Penick, swept all of their events. Penick took first in the 60-yard dash with a time of 6.3 seconds. Rick Vallicelli and Bob Washington were second and third, respec­tively. In the 300-yard event, Penick again picked up a first place as Vallicelli finished third. 

Tom McMannon tied the meet Erif Penickrecord of 7.4 seconds in the 60­Earlier, Mercer took a first in theyard high hurdles with Pat 1000-yard run, easily out­
Mullaly and Mike Dimick placing second and third. 

distancing the Miami runners. The Irish showed their strength 
Sophomore Don Creehan and Bill in the middle distances with 
Phillips finished first and second Marty Hill and freshman Mike in the 6000-yard dash. Gahagan placing first and third The Irish, now 1-0, will be in in the one mile event. Gahagan action again next weekend, later returned to take first in the meeting Ohio State Saturday in 880, just ahead of Gene Mercer. Columbus. 
INVOLVEMENT '72 NIGHT TONIGHT 
7 -8:30 LIBRARY LOBBY 
A CHANCE TO SEE WHAT NOTRE DAME -SMC ACTIVITIES NEED HELP 
GROUPS WANTING DISPLAY TABLE CALL 1434 
THE OBSERVER Monday, January 31, 1972 





in final match 

Team captain Ken Ryan, wrestling at 150 pounds. and 126 pound Steve Moylan won Notre Dame's other twelve points via pins. Ryan pinned Bill Collins one minute and thirty seconds into the third period, and Moylan, now !l-2 in duel meets, pinned Jack !Iague 43 seconds into the second period. 
But it was the 6'6", 265 pound Fanning who thrilled the large crowd in the ACC's auxiliary gym and who won the match for the Irish. Fanning, a defensive lineman on the Irish football team. oinned 6'4", 245 pound Ed Floyed after 36 seconds of the second period. 
The other six matches went to the Ohioans. Jim Trausch pinned ND's Bill Moran I :49 into the second stanza of their 167 pound match. and Carroll won five matches by decision. John Morabito outpointed Mike Martin at 118,3-0; Tom Mulhall downed Rich Esposto 6-3 at 134; 142 pounder Dan Weir decisioned 


Curt Brambel 4-2; Mark Hum­mer topped Mike Kemp at 158, 8­3 and 177 pound Tom Corbo was a llt•a"yweight Mikl• Fanning's second period pin gave the Irish7-2 winner after Rich Galoon. 
\\T(•stll'l"l'i a llll"illing :!:!-21 victory over prt>viously unbeaten John The victory made Notre Dame ('aJTnll l 1ni\'l'rsity. !l-1. John Carroll is now 7-1. (Photo by Joe Raymond) 
What is life without love? 


From one beer lover to another. 
THE STROH llR EWER Y COM I'A:-; Y. DITROIT. MICHIGAN 4R226 

Monday, January 31, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
Lost weekend for Digger, Lefty 
UCLA, Illini drub cauers 
~· 

by Vic Dorr According to Digger Phelps, Notre Dame has the number one student body in the country. According to the International Cheerleading Foundation, Notre Dame has the number one college cheerleaders in the country. But according to virtually everyone, UCLA has the number one college basketball team in the country. And Saturday afternoon the Bruins showed why. Playing in front of a sellout Convocation Center crowd of 11.:!43 , the Bruins shrugged off every offensive and defensive wrinkle that Irish coach Digger Phelps could throw at them, and Pnded up with a 57-32 victory, their 16th in a row this season. The Irish opened the game by battling UCLA's pressing man-to­man defense with a press of their own, and by working the ball slowly and deliberately on of­fense. Helying on this strategy, and taking advantage of some !'arly UCLA turnovers, the Irish W!'re able to stay just about even with the Bruins, and trailed by only 17-13 at the 10:00 mark in the first half. But during the second ten minutes of the first period, UCLA began displaying the ex­plosiveness that has become their trademark. Tommy Curtis and Tom O'Mara traded field goals, hut thl'n two quick buckets by llenry Bibby and one by 6-ll Bill Walton moved the Bruins into a 25-15 advantage. Bibby dropped in a pair of free throws to make it 27-15 at the 7:04 mark, and when Willie Townsend picked up his third personal just 34 seconds latPr. Phelps decided to go with a stall. "We playPd them once before," remembered Phelps. "and got beat by 58. I felt that they were about ready to explode against us again, so I decided to go with our 1-2-2-spread. We wanted to try to contain them for ten or 15 minutes, and then take it from there. The 1-2-2-did enable us to cut their lead to eight and got back into the game, but Bibby scored right at the half, and that hurt." The Irish 1-2-2-was an of­fensive set which cleared the left side of the floor and let Gary Novak work one-on-one against UCLA's Walton. Novak, only occasionally passing off, would feint toward the basket and then would retreat out beyond the top of the key, only to turn and make another move at Walton. Notre Dame started the stall at fi: :10 in the first half, and they stayed in it for the remainder of the period. Novak popped in a short j mper at 3:31, and drew a foul from Walton just 40 seconds later. The 6-7 sophomore con­verted both free throws to pull the Irish within eight, 27-19. But a fielder by Walton and a buzzer basket by Bibby moved the Bruins into a 12-point halftime lead. "Our plan at halftime was to hold the ball until eight minutes remained," explained Phelps, ·'Then we were going to go all out to try to win it. Our strategy was dept•ndent on whether Walton would come out to pick up Novak, or whether Wooden would make 
·---;~-)\r ~~ 
·-. ~ ..n ~,,
~..,.. ., . . .
i "">~ _, 
." 






t .it~ 
l.arr~· lsnlt'lsun f I!J) flips the puck into an open net to give the Irish a 2­11 h•ad nn•r Wisconsin in the first period of Friday night's game. The Badl-(t•rs t·a nw h;u·k to win. howt>ver. 5-:1. (Photo by Joe Raymond) 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
J 

(;ar~· ~~~' ak and Bill Walton "dut•l" ont' another while teammates look nn. The• Bruins won. 5i-:l:!. Saturday aftt>rnoon. 
just decided to sit back and wait." 
And wait the Bruins did. A backdoor bucket by Larry Farmer put the Bruins up, 33-19, and then Novak went to work on Walton again, dribbling in and out for nearly seven minutes until he finally drove the lane and scored. 
Irish turnovers helped the Bruins stretch their lead to 15 with ten minutes to play , and Phelps was forced to abandon the stall then--rather than at the l'ight minute mark. And the Bruins, as Phelps had feared, !'Xploded. They held the Irish scoreless until only 5:05 remained, and scored 12 points themselves during this span. Wooden's substitutes ran the score to its final 57-32 spread. 
lil'nry Bibby had 15 points, Bill Walton 12, and Larry Farmer ten for the Bruins. Walton and Swen Nater each grabbed seven rebounds for the UCLAns. NO's Gary Novak was the high scorer for the game with 16 points, and Tom O'Mara followed him with ten. Novak also led the Irish in rebounding with six. 
The loss to UCLA was Notre Dame's eleventh setback of the season and second of the Wl'ekend. On Friday night, the Irish traveled to Chicago Stadium. where they absorbed an Ill-59 defeat at the hands of 
1Photo by Joe Raymond) 
throws, and fell behind by 35-16. 
The Illini raced to a 27-point 
lead, 58-31, with 12 minutes left to play in the game, and Coach llarv Schmidt's crew just coasted ·from there. Nick Weatherspoon paced the Illini with 26 points, and Nick Connor had 17 rebounds 
for the winners. 
Gary Novak had 16 points and 
Pight rebounds to lead the Irish in 
both departments, and Tom 
O'Mara had 12 points. 
The Irish cagers have com­
pleted the roughest weekend on 
their schedule, but there is no 
rest in store for them. The team 
will play Michigan State in East 
Lansing tomorrow night, and will 
return to the ACC Thursday night 
against the West Virginia 
Mountaineers. 
Frosh win fourth straight 
Badgers beat icers twice; Irish iall to 7-9 in WCHA 
by Jim Donaldson 

Sports Editor Notre Dame was able to handle the East's top team earlier this season, but they couldn't handle the best in the West last weekend, dropping a pair of 5-3 decisions to the WCHA-leading Wisconsin Badgers at the ACC. 
The Irish icers had handed Cornell,considered by many to be the top hockey team in the East, a 5-4 overtime defeat back on Jan. 10, but were unable to come up with a victory against Bob Johnson's classy Badgers. 
Wisconsin fought back from a three-goal deficit to top the Irish on Friday night and Gary Win­chester scored four goals to lead the Badgers to victory Saturday. 
The Badgers upped their WCHA record to 15-3 with the twin triumphs and now have 38 title points. They are 19-3 overall. The Irish were unable to add to their total of 22 title points as their record fell to 7-9 in league play and 11-11 on the season. 
The Irish came out skating hard Friday night and played a near perfect first period, building up a 3-Q lead over the Badgers, who hadn't played in two weeks because of first semester examinations. 
John Campbell got things started for the Irish at 9:58, banging in a rebound of a shot by Eddie Bumbacco. Larry Israelson followed suit li9 seconds later when a shot from the right point by Mark Steinborn hit off Badger goalie .Jim Makey to Israelson, 10 feet in front, and the soph left winger flipped the puck into the open left side of the net. 
Notre Dame moved in front 3-0 with a power play goal at 19:11 as John Noble tipped in an off speed shot from the right side by Paul Regan. 
Things were different in the second period, however, as the Badgers came roaring back to take the lead with a four-goal outburst. 
Lloyd Bentley put the Badgers on the scoreboard at 5:37, driving a 35-foot slap shot by Irish goalie 
Dick  Tomasoni.  
Gary  Kuklinski  made  it  3-2,  
7:53  into  the  period  and  Pat  

Lannan lied the score at 13:04, hitting the twine with a rebound of a shot by Winchester. 
The Irish had a chance to regain their lost lead and momentum when the Badgers' Jim Johnston was sent to the penalty box thirty seconds after Lannan's goal but, instead, it was Wisconsin that came up with the big play, scoring while short­handed. 
medium range jumpers. Notre Dame opened up an 82-53 margin at 1l: 1l on a Pete Crotty bank shot and it was obvious that the Roadrunners weren't going to be 
The final minutes of the game were marred by an abundance of 
·turnovers as the Roadrunners attempted to make their defeat a bit more respectable. They weren't too successful, however, and the contest ended with the score 108-85. 
Stan Hinkley provided the heroics for the Badgers, gaining possession of the puck at his own blue line and breaking in alone on the N.D. net. Tomasoni came out to meet Hinkley but the Badger winger faked past the Irish goalie and deposited the puck into an empty net for what proved to be the winning goal. 
The Irish outshot Wisconsin 13­7 in the final period, but it was the Badgers who registered the only goal, Jim Young picking up an insurance goal at 8:30. 
In the second game of the series, the Badgers' duo of Winchester and goalie Dick Perkins were too much for the Irish. Winchester was the game's offensive standout, picking up a first period hat trick and scoring what proved to be the winning goal in the final stanza, while Perkins, playing his first game 
since  being  injured  in  late  
November.  shone  on  defense,  
stopping 37 Irish shots.  

Winchester started started his scoring spree at 7:38, driving a 40-footer frim the left side past a screened Tomasoni. He picked up his second goal at 16:39, speeding down the left wing and whipping a shot into the far right side of the net while the Irish were shor­thanded. 
Winchester's third goal also . came on a power play. The Calgary, Alta., sophomore completed his hal trick at 18:59, drilling home a shot from the left point. 
The Irish came battling back in the second period and cut the Badger lead to 3-2 on goals by Bumbacco and Ric Schaffer. 
Bumbacco scored on a power play, taking a perfect pass from Ian Williams in front of the Badger net and deflecting the puck over Perkins. Schaffer, standing 15 feet in front of the cage, got a stick on a slap shot from the right point by Steinborn and deflected the puck past Perkins, caught leaning the wrong way. 
Winchester gave the Badgers a two-goal bulge again at 4:41 of the third period when he backhanded a 15-footer past Tomasoni but Hegan kept the Irish comeback hopes alive with a shorthanded goal at 5:48. 
The Irish kept the pressure on the rest of the way but were unable lo come up with the equalizer. Wisconsin's Jeff Hotsch decided the issue at 19:40, shooting the puck into an open net from his own blue line after the Irish had pulled Tomasoni in favor of a sixth skater in an at­tempt to tie the score. 

by Joe Passiatore 
The Notre Dame freshmen basketball team placed five men in double figures en route to their fourth consecutive win, a 108-85 conquest of Southwest Michigan, Saturday afternoon. 
Once again the backcourt tandem of Gary Brokaw and Dwight Clay did most of the damage for the Leprechauns. l<:ach had 17 points at halftime and Brokaw finished the game the first half. The taller Irish had all the better of it in the rebounding phase of the game and were able to limit Southwest Michigan to just one shot on of­fense in the early going. By the time Frank Allocco fed Brokaw for an easy lay-up at 5:30, the lead had balooned to 41-21. 
At this point, Skip Miller caught fire for the Roadrunners and was instrumental in reducing his team's defecit to 47-35, with two minutes left in the half. 
some other adjustment." lllinois. with :12, Clay with 23. Pete Crotty Dwight Clay then began to Notre Dame outrebounded 
Wooden. the UCLA coach, did Phelps' team missed their first supplemented their attack with connect from the outside and he Southwest Michigan 55-42, and consider an adjustment, but he six tries from the floor, and 11 of 14 points . Tom Varga con­negated Southwest Michigan's outshot the Roadrunners 53 eventually decided against it. "I their first 12, but trailed the Illini tributed 13 and Bedford Bruno hot shooting. At intermission percent to 45 percent. The tur­nl'ver did consider bringing by only 16-12 at the 8:00 mark in tallied 11. Notre Dame led 55-43. nover discrepency wasn't much Walton out when we had the the first half. During the next Notre Dame was able to Brokaw and Clay went to work of a factor, as Notre Dame had 19 lead," hl' said. "I did consider seven minutes , though, the Irish Pstablish superiority over the in earnest at the outset of the compared to the 22 committed by bringing in a faster man and could collect only four points on a Hoadrunners early, as they built second half, Brokaw driving the Southwest Michigan. The victory using the zone trap, but then I goaltending call and two free a ten point lead, 21-11, at 13:46 of lane and Clay connecting on boosted the frosh record to 6-3. 
Page 8 THE OBSERVER Monday, January 31, 1972 
Russo claims American people defrauded 
The government of the United States is "guilty of conspiracy", according to Anthony Russe, keynote speaker of the Con­ference on Conspiracy and Dissent. Russe, speaking Friday, also claimed that the government has "defrauded the American people and the world." 
David Dellinger was originally scheduled to speak in the keynote slot. but when he cancelled out due to illness, Russo was con­tacted to fill his place. Russo is co-defendent with Daniel Ellsburg in the Pentagon Papers affair. 
Russo extended his attacks to the U.S. judicial system, particularrly the structure and 
Rhodesia attacked 
purpose of the Grand Jury set-up. He claimed that as they now stand. "the Grand Jury is the foremost arm of the police state"., · 
Russo also called the in­dictment he shared with Ellsburg "sheer fabrication". He also contended, that the government had a weak case against Ellsburg and himself. 
The indictment was for con­spiring to defraud the United States Government. Reading directly from the indictment, Russo said that he conspired "by impairing, obstructing, and defeating it's lawful government functions of controlling the dissemination of classified governmt>nt studies". 
Ellsburg's co-defendent said that it was the government which was guilty of conspirary . "Everyting is backward," he said. "The government is charging us with conspiracy when they are the defrauder." 
"The government is guilty of lies, secrecy, and deceit. A kind of establishment LSD, only their's is a mind contracter," he stated. Russo quoted the lawyer who defended Sacco and Vanzetti who said that "the ex­tent to which a government relies upon secrecy is the extent to which that government is a tryannt." 
The speaker called the Grand 
.. 
Blacks condemn treatment 
by James Dixon desha Hamisi Alimayu. 
The Black Unity Conference of In the statement the conference South Bend last Thursday, issued demanded that " ... the U.S.A. a statement condemning the severe its economic ties to this treatment of Black Africans by racist country, as it saw fit to do the Ian Smith regime in against Cuba." The statement Rhodesia. The statement was also asked that the United States signed by former council En-come out against Ian Smith, "the 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
The Staff 
Nite Editors: Jim Roe, Joe Abell(the sub) 
Day Editor: Tom Bornholdt Layout and Headlines: Gene Slason, Maria Gallagher Typists: Helen Smudski, Mark Niederkorn, Pat Kenny, Ginna Smith Sporting Editor: Jim Donaldson News Editor: Jerry Lutkus (who isn't forgotten too much) Features Editor: Marty Miller 
Special Guests from the East Coast: Marilyn Foster, Maureen McKenna Gypsies, Tramps, and Theives: John Abowd, T.C. Treanor, Don Ruane, Ed Ellis, Glen Corso 
Headline Operator: Don Biancamano Picture Man: Bob Hughes Night Controller: John Brady 
1. congrats to frank walsh, first pitman-of-the-week 2.will this give you faith, mike berens? 
3. where were you, mary collins? 
PROOF 
OF AGE 
REQUIRED 
HIS SPECIALITY WAS SEXOLOGY 
HIS PATIENTS WERE NYMPHS 
HIS HOSPITAL WAS lHE S .............. IN THE WORLD 
Hitler, who is ratsmg his ugly head in 1972." Finally the con­ference affirmed its support of the Africans "in their struggle to be free of white domination." 
The statement is a result of the recent turmoil in Rhodesia in which eight Black Africans were killed and two members of the African National Council were imprisioned. The riots stemmed from a dispute over a recently signed pact between Rhodesia and Great Britian. 
According to Alimyu the main objective of the Black Unity Conference wiii now be to "have the public know the situation in Rhodesia." He suggested that supporters write to the United Nations in behalf of the African cause. 
Chfl's Notes are great any time you need help in literature' We recommend buying early so that you can use them as you study the assigned play or novel and as a helpful review prior to exams. Get the Clrfl's Notes you need today. You'll see why they're the preferred study aid of mrlhons of students natronwrde (P S) If your dealer's out of a trtle. he can get another fast wrth Clrffs Hot lrne". 
Nearly 200 trtles-always available wherever books are sold. 
Only $1 each 

Jury ·'an arm against the movement". He contended that "the criminals are the ones doing the prosecuting_ The government is using the Grand Jury against us to further their tryannical goals." 
Russo said that the juries work to collect data to be used "against the movement" in two ways. He objected to the use of the sub­peona to question people behind "closed doors." He also accused the Grand Jury of being a "sweatbox" for third degree interrogation. 
The Grand Jury, according to Husso is just a collection of "warm bodies". "They are the tools of the prosecution," he said. 
Russo said the government used the immunity system "to go back on it's work". Russo said he was given transactional im­munity which, he said, is sup­posed to protect him from all prosecution, before the govern­ment indicted him 
Russo claimed that "you don't have to do anything unlawful" to be guilty of conspiracy. All it involves, according to Russo, is ''just talking about an act that is wrongful". 

Russo: Verdict: guilty for U.S. for "defrauding the American people" 
Russo called the Pentagon papers that they are a "pamphlet for the new American revolution". "You've gotta decide where you stand and what you stand for, "he continued, "If you don't stand for something, you'll fall for anything." 

Saul Bellow 
In. person 


SMORGASBORD 
Every Monday 5-9 pm $1.25 All you can eat 
Every Wednesday evening 
$1.00 PITCHER NIGHT AND LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
Every Friday night 
.LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
Every Saturday night POLKA BAND·DANCING 
Open Weekdays 11 a.m. -1 2 
p.m. 
LAUREL &HARDY ,~~ 
PIZZA .PALACE ~·~f 
I -
...-~ 4titOWestern Ave. Belleville Shoppinat Center Phone 289-7'l83 
/____C_LA__SS_1F_1~E_D__A_n_s____~ 
WANTED 

POETRY WANTED for An­thology. Include stamped en­velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California, 90021. 
STUDENTS WANTED for small technical school. Curriculum 
ECPD accredited. Major in 9 fields of drafting, 2 fields of Civil and Electronics. A.S. Degree. 
Industry recruits on our campus. Transfers accepted February 14th through 21st. Institute of Drafting and Technology, Morrison, Illinois, 61270. 
PERSONALS 
Tsitsiepeopoo, Shannon. Allectionatel y. 

The fat little guy with the crown. 
FOR SALE 

Parts and Accessories for lm­ported cars_ Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 272-7187. 
All recordings (Pver done) by_ PC'ter. Paul & Mdry, Beatles. ~tones. Dylan, Baez. New copies. 
8125 

'65 Pontiac Catalina, 383-V8, Automatic, power steering, radio, inspected. S350. Call 283-1933. 
NOTICES 

OVERSEAS JOBS FOR STUDENTS Australia, Europe, S. America, Africa, Etc. All professions and occupations, $700 to $3,000 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing. Free in­formation -Write, Jobs Overseas, Dept. F2, Box 15071, San Diego, CA 92115. 
Need typing done??? Will do typing tor reasonable rates and on short notice ·-don't waste time pecking away -Call Chip at 8256_ 
NOT AVAILABLE NEW? TRY US FOR A RECYCLED BOOK. PANDORA'S BOOKS. NOON MIDNIGHT. 233-2342. 
Word' ltla 7cla 3da 4da Sda 
I 10 .6S _95 1.15 1.35 1.55 II 15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2. tO 2.40 16 70 LJO 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 71 25 1.70 2_55 3.20 3.85 4.45 76 30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5-45 31 35 7-45 3-65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36 40 2.80 4_20 5.25 6.75 7.75 11-45 3.15 4_70 5.90 7.10 8.20 .J6 so 3_55 5.20 6.5o 7.80 8.95 







