-------------~ --~ ---~---­
On The Inside 
SLC picks •.. pg. 4 Observer Survey•••pg. 3 

Vol VII No.8 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 

Security officer hit-skip victim 
by Jeff McPherson 
Observer Staff Reporter 
Notre Dame security officer Richard W. Biniasz remained in serious condition at St. Joseph Hospital Monday after being hit by a car Friday night while patrolling the university parking lots. 
Bianiasz, a Notre Dame off campus student working in his second year for the Security Department, was walking along Juniper Road between parking lots CI and Dl when the incident occurred. 
He was well off the road when the vehicle veered onto the grassy shoulder region and struck him. The car failed to stop. 
Kevin Dunbar, another security officer, was walking with Biniasz at the time of the accident, but was not hurt. 
The car was identified as a 1968-69 Nova with extensive damage to the front end and possibly with Michigan license plates. 
St. Joseph County, Indiana State and Michigan state police are cooperating in the search to locate the vehicle. 
In another incident reported to the Security Department over the weekend., $675 in steroeo equipment, tapes, boots, shoes, an electric typewriter and a radio were stolen from room 35 Pangborn Hall. 
Security personnel also are investigating the weekend theft of two bicycles, one from the Grace Tower vicinity and another also from the northern end of campus. 
Acar parked in the Stepan Center parking lot was vandalized with severalal hammer strokes to the windshield Alsoover the weekend and early Mon­
day morning the candy machine in the first floor of Flanner Tower was forcibly entered and the money removed. 

Security begins to register bikes 
by Greg Ryan A program for bicycle registration will be available soon to aid in the identification of bikes stolen on the campus. The student government project, under the direction of Jim Clarke, coor­dinator of Research and Development, will allow 
ND cyclers to register their bikes with the security department for a charge of seventy-five cents. Bikes will then be filed by the name of the owner, 
make, and serial number of the bike. 

According to the head of campus security, Mr. Arthur Peers, out of the sixteen bikes stolen on campus so far this year, only six have had serial numbers. "The most important part of the registration is the serial number," stated Peers, "because it is hard for the owner to claim his bike without it." 
Peers doesn't feel that the thefts are the works of an organized ring, but did state that "about 95 per cent of the thefts are by people from South Bend." He cited as an example the case of two South Bend youths who were apprehended on campus this weekend allegedly attempting to steal bicycles. A ~ack saw is being held as evidence in the case. 
The university has ordered six new bike racks for Badin and Walsh halls, but more will be needed to accommodate the more than five hundred bikes on campus this year. The racks are needed not only to prevent thefts but also to avoid damage by the snow plows to bikes locked to fences along walk-ways, according to Peers 
A good lock and a strong chain strung through the frame and a tire and then secured to a rack is one of the best ways to deter thieves, Peers felt. Peers also mentioned that good lighting around racks at night is helpful in discouraging thefts and said he has plans to provide better protection of racks by lighting the bike areas. 
Tuesday, September 19, 1972 
Student govt. leaders acknowledge problems 


by Greg Aiello Reactions from student government yesterday varied concerning Hall President's Council Chairman Butch Ward's letter urging students to work through their Hall Government in the absence of a viable student body leader. Those officials contacted acknowledged the existence of the problems Ward described, but they differed in their interpretations of those problems. Student Body President R. Calhoun Kersten was unavailable for comment. Executive Co-Ordinator Dennis "H-Man" Etienne blamed student government's lack of direction on inadequate student participation. "We are either a student body without a leader or we have a leader without a constituency," said Etienne. "For adequate direction you need adequate student input. We are offering great possibilities because we are an open student government and so far there has been no student input. "Butch is right about the destructive cynicism and apathy,", Etienne continued, "but the solution can't come from student government without the help of students. All your big changes come from the students, not the government." 
Leaders emerge 

H-Man noted that as of yet no issues have arisen, but when they do leaders will emerge. He cited the parietals issue of last year. "The Obs.-rvf'r was the leader in that case. They called the people out, not Barkett," Etienne said. 
Student Union Research and Development Commissioner Jim Clarke underscored this point. "Student government is handicapped because basically we are administrators," he said. "All we are involved in now is student services." Clarke feels that the structure of student government is diffused in such a manner that only the S.B.P. can provide effective leadership. 
Clarke also cited John Barkett, last year's SBP. for failure to lead the students last year in the parietals issue, but expressed a lack of confidence in Kersten's ability to provide leadership this year if needed. Clarke agrees with Ward's letter and added, "With the situation as is the students should turn to the H.P.C., but I don't agree that the situation should be. Hopefully, it will be resolved after the S.L.C. elections and if Kersten resigns. Of course, you can't tell." 

H·P·C· an alternative 

Academic Affairs Commissioner Ed Ellis also recognized the viability of the H.P.C. as an alternative to student government. "It's quite possible," said Ellis. "People have been talking about it for years. I'd hate to see it happen because the HPC would become politicized and this would take away from their contributions to 
Ed Ellis, left, and Jim Clarke 
the individual hans: The H.P.C. can take us a long way, but I'd rather see student government do it in conjunction with the Halls." 
Whereas Clarke sees a lack of government leadership and H-Man a lack of student input, Ellis views the problem in terms of a lack of experience. "Butch is absolutely right," said Ellis. "Things like co-ed dorms, campus bars, and academic changes are important issues that require leadership with experience. The problem is that we have good people with no experience." 
As far as criticisms of Ward's letter, S.B.V.P. Ed Gray contended that Ward's reference to Kersten's letter to the freshmen missed the whole tone of the letter. "He took it out of con­text." said Gray. It was actually one of the most honest things we could have written." 
Etienne criticized Ward's contention that student government has damaged student relations with the administration. 


Kersten good 
"At a meeting with the Student Affairs Committeee of the Board of Trustees four months ago, a group of Trustees spent a good deal of time convincing Kersten to stay on in the capacity he was elected in, as a figurehead. They thought he was good for the students because he took the professionalism out of student government." Etienne said. 
Etienne mentioned that Barkett told the Alumni Senate Meeting last May that Kersten had established greater rapport with the ad­ministration at that one meeting that he had all of last year. 
Ed Gray noted that student government was in a period of transition, a possible explanation for its present lack of direction. While creating a new government with a new constitution and a new atmosphere, he said they are presently handicapped until the S.L.C. is elected. Gray stated that the new government will try to get away from playing politics and to involve new faces. He emphasized the forthcoming S.L.C. elections as an important beginning to . the rejuvenation of student government. 



King Kersten Ed Gray, left, and Dennis' Etienne 

the observer Tuesday, September 19, 1972 

warld 
briefs 

Logan. w. Va.-Sen. George McGovern came to West Virginia's coal country to assert that the government should "put an end to the strip mining that is destroying so much of this beautiful state." The Domocratic Presidential nominee declared as well in a lengthy "agenda for human concerns in Appalachia" that clearcutting of trees should be abolished in the Monongahela National Forest and a federal task force should make recommendations on "changing this practice" in all national forests. 
Washington --The Secretary of the Treasury, George P. Shultz, qualified the pledges recently made by two other administration officials that President Nixon would not propose any increases if elected to a second term in office. 
Washington --.The House Appropriations Committee approved a $4.2­billion foreign aid bill monday, which was nearly $1 billion below ad­ministration requests for the current fiscal year. The committee cited the "critical financial situation confronting the nation in making cuts in the foreign aid appropriations bill that dealt mainly with economic assistance. The bill is virtually certain to be approved by the House without change, and it is doubtful that any of the cuts will be restored in the Senate. 
an campus taday 
4:00--seminar, dr. michael sela, molecular basis of antigenicity, b238 galvin life science. 
8:00--meeting, manasa, volunteer recruit­ment for old and new members, engineering auditorium. 

at nd-smc 





British announce North Ireland conference 
By Bernard Weinraub But the Social Democratic and Catholic opposition parties, the resumed direct rule in March,the Further, officials said, Whitelaw 
<c> 1972 New York Times Labor Party--which represents Nationalists and Republican Moderate Alliance Party and the felt an obligation toward the most Catholics in Ulster--has Labor. Northern Ireland Labor Party. participants who have submitted 
London, Sept. 18-The British announced a boycott of the con­The Alliance and the Labor Parties proposals for discussion. A Government announced today that ference unless the 238 men in the The Rev. Ian Paisley, the represent both Catholics and decision to cancel the conference 
a conference on the political future Long Kesh internment camp were militant Protestant member of Protestants, with the Alliance because of the Catholic boycottof Northern Ireland will be held 

freed. Parliament, has announced that Party gaining some strength over was ruled out because that would next week despite the decision of his party--the Democratic the last year among middle-dass have amounted to the Roman Catholic minoritynot to William Whitelaw, The British unionists--would not participate moderates on both sides. acknowledgement that political
take part. Administrator of Northern 

because Whitelas has refused an efforts toward a settlement had Ireland, and British Prime official inquiry into the killing of reached a standstill.
A joint announcement in Belfast
The three-day "all-party" Minister Edward Heath have two Protestants by British soldiers and London said that the con­
conference, starting Monday at a rejected an immediate end to the 

in Belfast two weeks ago. 
ference will be held at the Eurpeahotel near Darlington, in Counry policy of internment without trial lodge Hotel at Blackwell, about 245Durham in the North of England, because of the continued violence miles North of London the hotel
had been planned by the British in Northern Ireland. This leaves the representatives opened last month.Government to see what common 
of three parties scheduled to attend
ground can be found in governing Joining the party in the boycott 

group that dominated Northern 
A spokesman at Whitelaw'sNorthern Ireland. 
of the conference were the other Ireland for 51 years until Britain London office said: "We chose the hotel because it was quiet, well off the road and afforded the necessary degree of privacy. It
ND Security undergoes change; 
was outside official premises and away from London." Official close to Whitelaw said that his intention to press ahead
seeks involve:ment, better i:mage 
with the conference was due partly to his desire to spur some political momentum and dialogue among 
~ 
by Maude Pytynia 
•

the bitterly divided parties in
Observer lnsilaht 
Northern Ireland. Guess the number• of Swingline In May of 1972, the Dean of Tot staples in the jar. 
Students received a report from Finally, James L. Dyer, who also community to get involved, and 
The jar is approximately square

the Security and Traffic Advisory serves as a Teaching Assistant in lastly, to improve the Depart­

Celtic society 
-3" x 3" x 43/e ". Look for the
Board reommending that the art, served as a full-time Security ment's image. 
clue about "Tot" capacity.

Notre Dame Security Department Officer this past summer. To achieve these goals, various 
The "Tot 50"" is uncondition­


plans events
establish a system that would take These three students met with projects have been undertaken. 
ally guaranteed. It staples, tacks, 

the "police concept" from the Security Officer Jerry McGlynn, Among these include radio and The Notre Dame Celtic Society 
mends and costs only 98¢ sug­

Department and set up a public for the purpose of initiating some poster announcements, bulletins met last night for it's first meeting 
gested retail price at Stationery,

relations program for the entire ideas as to how the Notre Dame placed in dorm rooms, and student of the year under the new president 
Variety and College Bookstores

University community. Security Department could create publications which run articles on Eamon McCarthy. The Society 
with 1,000 staples and vinyl

At the close of the 1971-1972 school a better image of itself. During the secunty. Barnes, Hake, Dyer, and broke up into special sub­
pouch. Swingline Cub Desk and 

year, three Notre Dame graduate summer months, radio an­McGlynn also found that an ef­committees to handle publicity, Hand Staplers for $1.98 each. students took up positions on the nouncements which gave in­fective bicycle registration system budget, and social events. Fill in coupon or send postcard. No Security Department. William formation on security and safety is needed to reduce theft. The idea Publicity Director James purchase required. Entries must be 
postmarked by Nov. 30, 1972 and re­

Hake, the first of the three, is measures were broadcast on of a student I.D. system called O'Sullivan revealed that the group 
ceived by Dec. 8, 1972. Final decision presently in the MBA program and WSND for the summer school "Stop That Thief,'~ which would will feature a series of special by an independent judging organization. works twenty hours per week as a residents. employ etching tools for per­events throughout the year in­In case of tie, a drawing determines a 
winner. Offer subject to all laws and

security officer . William E. The goal of these Security manent identification of personal cluding guest speakers and Irish 
void in Fla., Mo., Wash., Minn. & Idaho. 


Barnes, the second, is a Teaching Department measures was to items is also being considered. musical evenings. 
Assistant majoring in art, and he improve University Security with has worked as a Radio Dispatcher the help of the entire Notre Dame for the Security Department. community in the areas of crime incidence, development of a .es common knowledge of campusSMC Serl security problems and procedures, encouragement of the entire


plays host tor--------; 
J. Brademas 
U.S. Congressman Brademas, ( D-Third District, Indiana< will be the initial speaker partaking in "The American Scene : A Cultural Series", hosted by Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame. This series is in its sixth year~ and includes lectures, musical concerts, drama and art exhibits. 
Congressman Brademas, a member of Saint Mary's College Board of Regents, will speak on "Educational Legislation· f~ ...m the Congressional Point of View", on Septmeber 22, 1972, at 7:30p.m. in Carroll Hall, Madeleva, Saint Mary's College. The public is invited. 
The Observer .is publiShed daily during the college semester eJ<cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. Second class postage peid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 
TONIGHT THRU THURSDAY 
THE FRENCH 

CONNECTION 
at 9:15 

at 7:15 
AVON THEATER 307 N. Michigan Ave. · 288-7800 

MARDI GRAS COMMITTEE 
IS LOOKING FOR 




FUN PEOPLE 
TO BRING OFF THE SOCtt\L EVENT OF THE YEAR 
If you are artistic, imaginative, friendly, like to work with people for charity 
General Meeting Grand Ballroom 3rd floor; LaFortune Wednesday, Sept. 20 9:00p.m. 
More Information Call: Joe Oliva 1204 John Duffy 233-4840 
IMPORTANT: Write your guess outside the envelope, lower lefthand corner. 

P.O. Box 1 New York, N.Y. 10016 THERE ARE_ STAPLES IN THE JAR Name____________________ 
Address _____________ 
City•--------------------­State•-----------Zip __ Telephorte No.---------­

C:::::~: 
32-00 Sk•llman Ave., long Island Cily. N.Y. 111011 
L--------------~ 

1 
1 
Tuesday, September 19, 1972 the observer 3 1 1 
~ 



Politics keynotes Administration view o~. SLC. 
. circles the past has been marked Affairs but it has been over-the membership has not been also cnticiZed for Its efficiency. by D~n Rua?e by th~ "anticipation of group ; shadow'ed by several things. First, uni!ied,. a~d has not had ~e Fr. ~ames Shilts, assis~t vice 1 Exe~ut•ve Ed•~or . voting, usually the administration 1 the leadership that has been Umversit~ s good as c~ose to Its pres1dent for ~tudent ,affarrs, !a~s I 
Student ~Ife Council electiOns for. the ~IX student represen­tatiVe~ Will be held Wednesday. This is the third and final part of a series presenting the outlook for t~e 1972-73 SLC from the point of v1~~ of ~tudent, faculty_ and ad­mmistrative representatives, who 
a~e new members, or are retu~­
mng ~embers from l~s~ yea_r s 
~~'tf:a~·. Today' the admmistration 
Politics and the efficiency of each member seem to be the major threads of concern about the SLC from the administrative point of view' according to comments made Monday by one half of that faction. 
The political aspect involves power voting blocks, for whom the SLC is intended, and its ef­fectiveness since it was formed in the fall semester of 1968. Mem­bership efficiency concerns the knowledge a representative has of his constituency's views, the ef­fects of their other activities, and how well they are able to prepare for a meeting as a group such as a committee. 
According to Dr. Robert Ackerman, director of student activities and a rookie in SLC against the students with the faculty becoming the swing vote." 

There was much done in the way of courting the faculty by both sides which made the sLc idea of discu~sion and rational voting into a campaign and vote situation, he added ~ 
Dr..Ackerman urged that the 

concept of the council be more than 
~~~;_c~~frs~~t~~onpr~~Jr~ s:::~ 
similar to the Academic Council. If it does not become "viable," a concept which has become popular among SLC representatives this year' there will be nothing relating to students beyond the academic sphere. 
Maket\ a Case 

General Counsel Philip Fac­cenda extends the political thread when he makes a case for the council's effectiveness. He said that 90 percent of the SLC recommendations have been approved. 
One can make "a pretty strong case for the council's ef­fectiveness," according to the acting Vice President for Student 


Kersten still remains popular 

according 
by Dean Mayors 

Notre Dame students feel much the same way about Student Body President Bob Kersten as they did last spring, according to a campus poll conducted yesterday by the Observer. The poll revealed that over ninety percent of the students who voted for Kersten last spring would vote for him again if the election were held tomorrow. 
Most of the students contacted 
admitted that they don't know 
what Kersten has accomplished 
but that they "didn't really expect 
him to do too much anyway." The 
students generally commented 
that they liked Kersten but knew 
too little about the operation of 
student government to comment 
critically on Kersten's tenure. 

provided after the first two years heart as It should. Fmally~ the success for this years council m has led to disillusionment because students seem to evaluate It as the ~mtcome of tommorrow's 
1
the best possible leaders have been "What have you done for me electiOn. 
I
bypassed. According to Faccenda, lately," rather than for the entire . Becoming more general, Fr. 
1
the students have been less at fault student body. Shilts noted the time element as 
1
than the other factions. In addition to the mis~ected Continued on page 8 Secondly, the aoproach taken by approach, the membership was
1 • 11 • 1 
1
Prob1eDlS resu t lD cance atlOD 1 
i 
1
of Sophomore Parents' .Weekend 1 
1 
by Sue Prendergast Observer Staff Reporter 

Scheduling problems and lack of enthusiasm among class members resulted in the cancellation of all plans for a Sophomore Parents' Weekend at Notre Dame this year. 
Eighteen sophs attended the general class meeting in LaFor­tune last night--a turnout which Vice-President Greg Garrison described as "terrific." 
President Dave Yates apologized for a mix-up this summer which caused temporary cancellation of the weekend, originally scheduled around the Texas Christian game on October 
22. Letters announcing the weekend did not reach sophomore parents in time for them to pur­chase football tickets. 
Yates added that the weekend could be rescheduled later in the year and suggested several possible dates, including March 3 <basketball game), Mardi Gras, and An Tostal. 
The class, however, rejected each of these dates: Mardi Gras because of possibly hazardous winter weather; March 3, because of its proximity to spring break, which begins March 9; An Tostal, also because of its nearness to vacation and its lack of parent­oriented activities. 
Many felt it was already too late to begin planning a worthwhile event. "I'd rather we did nothing 

to Observer survey 
Students who disliked Kersten felt that he has "gotten in over his head, and now he wants out." They cited his lack of "in­volvement"\ and contrasted his satirical approach to his own administration with the sincerity of Paul Dziedzic, whom Kersten had defeated for the Student Body President post last spring. 
Most students gave their opinions in light of the recently released letter of HPC Chairman Butch Ward which urged that students work through their hall government in the absence of a 
student body leader. While most students admitted that they hadn't read the letter , they assumed it to be a direct imputation of Kersten's "inactivity" while in office. 
The students generally felt that student government is "inef-

During the academic year 1971-72, the Student Government allocated $15,000.00 frol'!l its operating funds to thirteeen campus organizations. It is possible that a-limited sum may again be available for distribution among various campus clubs. In ad­dition, approximately $1,500.00 in Mardi Gras Funds remain and may be applied for by organizations .that qualify as Mardi Gras charities. 
There exists no set of criteria to guide us, but service to the University Community, number of students involved, and the like, are certain to influence the distribution of these funds. Buget­funding requests--in the form of an itimized statement of an­ticipated income and expenses must be filed with the Student Body Treasurer before 12:00 noon, Friday, September 29, 1972. This statement must bear the signature and telephone number of an authorized group spokesman who will be available to appear at a budget committee meeting on October 2, 1972. Student Govern­ment grants and Mardi Gras grant requests must be filed separately. 
On behalf of Student Government, I wish you every success in your activities this coming year. Respectfully, 
Mike Marget Student Body Treasurer 
fectual" in its present form, but they hesitated to place the blame on Kersten. Many preferred to criticize the general apathy of the student body. 
Many of the students agreed with Ward's assertion that students should work more through the hall governments. Some felt that student government should be of a different structure. As one sophomore put it: "The halls should have more power. I like Kersten, but he's just a comic figurehead." The general outlook of the students was perhaps best summarized by the senior who commented, "Kersten's okay. He hasn't done much, but I doubt anybody could really do anything effective. The Board of Trustees lays down the law, and we're just allowed to play 

.in our sandbox." 
than do a halfway job on this," one soph said. Very few indicated that their parents would attend the event if it were held. 
In other action, the class set tentative dates for freshman class elections; voting will take place on Thursday, October 12, and cam­paigning from 6 P.M. on Sunday, October 8 until midnight on Wednesday, October 11. For more information, contact Dave Yates. 
Yates encouraged any sophs who object strongly to the cancellation 

Hundreds of stereo records to choose from. You're sure to find whatever type of music you like in our large selection of Decca, Capitol. RCA. and other top-notch brands. Take advantage of these fabulous prices. 
1
of Parents' Weekend to present 
1 
their views at the next class meeting on Monday, September 26, at 7 in LaFortune. 
Garrison stressed the need for more student involvement in class activities, especially as student government is currently inactive. "We (the officers) are sorry Parents' Weekend fell through. But maybe if we had had more people behind us, pushing us harder than we pushed ourselves, it might not have happened." 




s DB 
$4.98 to $5.98 
values while they last 

Another Hit Record Spectacular 
A  FEW  OF  THESE  GREAT  ARITISTS  ARE  LISTED  
BELOW:  
LESLEY GORE  PERCY FAITH  
CANDY-SOUNDTRACK-­ JOHNNY MATHIS  

Featuring THE BYRDS BLOOD, SWEAT & TEARS &STE PPENWOLF. 
BOB DYLAN PL_US MANY MANY MORE! 

IGNORANCE is bliss write for the 
SCIENCE QUARTERLY 
and be miserable 
writers, reporters, artists, Old and New Mem­
bers Meeting Tuesday, Sept.19, 1972 at 7:30p.m. 
118 Nieuwland Science Hall 
~I'! INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER

THE­
John Abowd Jim Jendryk 
Editor-in-chief Business Manager

OBSERVER 
Joe Butler Executive Editor Advertising Manager Don Ruane 
News: 283-1715 EditoriaI: 283-8661 Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, Business: 283-7471 on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the 
individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Americ:a's Children The Last Time Around? 

jerry lutkus
I \ '\ I\ 
'/ ' I U 
I 
II~ 

SLC Endorsements 
The Observer decided to endorse candidates for the Student Life Council election because the body's potential could be realized under the Acting Vice-president of Student Affairs Phillip Faccenda. 
Prospective council members were asked standard questions about their opinions on the role of th~ S~C, t~e ;o~e of SLC representatives under the new constitution (If It IS approved), the effectiveness of the Kersten government, and proposals for co-residential dormitories. In addition, each candidate was asked how often he thought the SLC should meet and how much time he would be willing to devote. 
The form of the endorsements is changed over past years. The categories (recommended, acceptable and not acceptable) represent the Editorial Board's opinion of the 1otential effectiveness of the individual candidates. A can­lidate was recommended only if we believed he had a 
significant contribution to make to the future of the SLC. The endorsements are: District I (Off-campus) 
Recommended: none 
Acceptable: Tim Schwartz. Schwartz showed good en­thusiasm for the job. He did not favor the unworkable plan 
whichcalled for SLC meetings every month rather he opted for biweekly meetings. He promised to devote 10-15 hours a week to the job.) 
Not acceptable: none 
District II (Farley, Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, St. Ed's) Recommended: none 
Acceptable: Matt Cavanaugh, Juan Manigualt. Both can­didates are about equal in ideas about the SLC and in the other opinions given the Observer. Cavanaugh's drawback was a lack of specific ideas on the co-residential dormitory problem. Manigault's drawback was his support of monthly meetings. 
Not Acceptable: none 
District III (Grace, Flanner) 
Recommended: Floyd Kezele. Kezele's two years of ex­perience and his SLC record are impeccable. He is one of the outstanding candidates in the election. 
Acceptable: Mike Hess 
Not acceptable: "Carolina" Nichols 
District IV (Stanford, Keenan, Zahm, Holy Cross, St. Joe, 
Moreau)Recommended: Anthony Abowd, Bill McLean. Both can­didates showed a good understanding of the role of the SLC and of the expanded role of student representatives under the new constitution. The editorial board could make no distinction. 
Acceptable: none 
Not acceptable: Dick Singsank 
District V (Alumni, Dillon, Walsh, Badin, Sorin) Recommended: Frank Devine. Devine had sound ideas on the role of the SLC. In addition, his experience as moderator of the WSND show Contact Notre Dame gives him a big edge in knowledge of the campus problems. 
Acceptable: Dennis Etienne (H-man) 
Not Acceptable: Rick Hilton 
District VI (Howard, Morrissey, Lyons, Fisher, Pangborn) Recommended: Fred Giuffrida. Giuffrida is the other outstanding candidate in the election. He has served on several student-faculty committees and on the University Academic Council. This is invaluable experience for the SLC. 
Acceptable: none 
Not acceptable: Jim Roe, Joe Lipka 
The following candidates chose not to be interviewed: Rich Eschman, Jim Hunt, Mark Knevel, Jim Napier, Bob Sauer. 
The Editorial Board 
Wednesday, the stuaent body of Notre Dame will be put to the task of 
selecting six student reptresentatives to the Student Life Council. 
Needless to say, based on thepastperformances of the Council and the 
current out-of-vogue condition of student government, the election 
doesn't generate a whole lot of excitement. 
Throughout the week, articles and columns appearing in this newspaper having seemingly tolled the chimes over the death of the SLC. Countless people have noted that the SLC is on it's last legs--­which may or may not be true. But in a column in Monday's Observer, Ed Ellis issued a call for all good men to "come forth." 
Ellis heralded an opinion that was heard countless times last evening. 
Last night the Observer editorial board met concerning en­dorsements for the SLC positions. In what proved to be one of the fiercest meetings in quite awhile, the board "decided" on the recommendations that are found on this page. 
But the board's decision is not really what I care to talk about here. There is something that is much more important. Despite the death tolls that have been sounded, 20 gentlemen have expressed an interest to sit in the six chairs that have been delegated to the students on this tripartite assembly. (Two chairs are ex officio.) 
In the last SLC election that we had <Spring 1971) approximately the same number of candidates ran for office. Despite the state of the SLC, candidate interest has not decreased. People are still interested and enthusiastic about serving on the Student Life Council. And it was this enthusiasm and the accompanying optimism which made the editorial board meeting worthwhile despite the intense wrangling amongst the members. 
All of the candidates opted that the SLC is still a viable operating forum where students, faculty, and administration could meet together. All of them also called for more "teeth" to be put into the Council---a cry that remains to be the loudest complaint issued when speaking of the SLC. 
As it stands now, the SLC has no real power, but with enthusiastic and optimistic student input, perhaps the SLC can push for some kind of power, some "teeth" that it needs desperately. That remains un­certain, something that will be decided early in the SLC's 1972-73 
reign . If the body declines to redefine itself and continue plodding along it's same old well-worn path then both students and faculty will be searching desperately for some kind of forum where they can be heard. This is the choice that is left open to them. 
To the students this seems to be crucial. If the forum that is created in the SLC breaks down, the students really have nowhere to look. The office of the Student Body President is full of pomp, pagentry, and a general ineffectiveness in student affairs. Kersten is on the fence, seemingly undecided about what his next move will be. In that state, he cannot offer an effective forum for students. 
The Senate will be its same old, ineffective, impotent self.. ..that is until tonight when (according to widesperead rumors) it will vote on the new Constitution. Student Government sources are unclear whether the Senate will be able to meet at all. (The problem seems to lie in getting all the Senators together in one place.) If the Senate does meet and pass the Constitution, it will be destroying itself and establishing a new form of student government. 
The only other outlet of student frustration will then be the Hall President's Council The HPC can rule on affairs dealing with the Halls, but beyond that they don't have any other power. To top that, they don 'tseemto have the potential for any other power. 
The SLC does have that potential. The SLC is essential to student input in the next year ... a year in which student input seems to have lost all channels. 
Most of the candidates expressed that opinion last night. They view the SLC as both a new opportunity and a last chance. The Kersten regime has created a reactionary impulse in student leaders. In the absence of a strong executive, they have taken it upon themselves to serve the students. Perhaps that's what Kersten wanted to do all along, but I'll let him reap his own plaudits. 
Nonetheless, therein lies the importance of tomorrow's election. It is perhaps the SLC's last chance, but it's an optimistic last chance. It's a last chance that could blossom into a smooth-operating, right­fully powerful body of students, faculty, and administrators all meeting for the good of the University. 
1111111111111111111IIIII111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

l:he sl:aff 
the editarial baard: 
Editor-in-Cheif: John Abowd executive Editor: Don Ruane News Editor: Jerry Lutkus Managing Editor: Joe Abell St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Features Editor: Rod Braye Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis 


the issue staff: 
Nite Editor: Dan 
Assistant Night Editor: Beth Hall 
Staff: Ken Kampman, Mary Romer, Pete 
Fries, Don 
Day Editor: Ken 
Jan needs two Purdue tickets. Call 4679. 
L. 
Tuesday, September 19, 1972 
the observer 
5 


l"oo'"mSLC'~"~·~;;d'i'd'~'~oo;·;;~;;;t;l 
= 
= 
;==-Tim Schwartz District 1 
~ The Student Life Council has failed §miserably in the past several years simply §by its negligence in recognizing two 
§essential facts: The Notre Dame student ~is changing in character year by year as is §his life style. In order to avoid an ad­§ministration-faculty coalition which §inevitably destroys any realistic self­
:_determination of student lifestyles the SLC 
§must reapportion the representation until §the students are in self-control. Changes $that must take place this year include a $minimum acceptance quota of 30 per cent $women for next fall, co-ed housing, and the §establishment of an off-campus tenements ~nion to challenge exhorbitant rents. 
S Mctt:t Cavanaugh 
-
-D•"str1·ct 2
5 ,. 
= 
5 The voice of the stu'dent must be heard. 
§With the advent of co:education and the 
5 present student government it becomes 
$evident that the Student Life Council must 
$attain its full potential as a decision 
§making body at Notre Dame. 
5 Questions such as the next women's 
-
~dorm, a bar on campus and the possibility 
5 of a co-residential hall w1·11 be dec"1ded by 
-
5 the SLC this year. Students have the right
5 and the obligation to take part in this 
5 process. I will work with the student 
§members of the board to answer these 
Squestions and assert the sttudent members 
~of the board to answer these questions and 
Eassert the student's ideas and views 
~=-through the SLC. 
Juan Manigault
§== District 2 
5 Student government has been a dream of5 which students work together for the 5 betterment of life on campus. In the pastathis idea seldom materialized because 5 student government was far above the 5 students. It has been a working fraction 5 divided from the whole doing a disservice ~ to all. With the unveiling of the new 5 structure, the board of commissioners, students can finally form a workable coalition for the betterment of life, and the pursuit of new goals. The challenge of past inactivity is before us now and I run to see that this inactivity remains in the past. I run not to make or break promises, simply 
to help make us all aware of the situations here. 
Mike Hess District 3 

Mike Hess. My name. A new name in student government. The SLC needs new names and faces and ideas if it is to sur­vive. Should SLC sink or swim' You may see either as the eviler of two lessers. SLC 
. will sink if it does not become a forum for honest interaction, instead of parliamentqry rhetoric. I offer a new 
voice, and if necessary, a loud voice on the SLC. I will' make no promises, but I will
make no compromises. I do not seek to 
raise hopes·-but to raise hell. I ask for you support. Thanks. Floyd Kezele District 
3 

This is a year of change for Notre Dame,
and if the students wish to have a · f . . th· h th
meaning u1vo1ce m IS c ange e , they must skilfully use their experience to change the Student Life Council. As a member of the Council for the past two years, I've seen it succeed in protecting student's rights, and 1-ve seen it stand helplessly by in the face of student apathy. To counter this the S.L.C. should evolve into a much more powerful body -the University Forum. A body such as this
ld · t· t B 

cou mves 1ga e new areas ( ookstore, Dining Hall, Rebates for Freshmen), and implement its findings. 
Anthony Abowd 
District 4 

The SL'C is the last vestige of student input into campus affairs. We need people wiltinQ to d~vote the time necessary to make-the SLC"effective. 
With student-directed energy the SLC can work. Administrators and faculty are waiting for student initiative. They have said so. A student SLC representative must be prepared to shoulder the 
.responsibility and especially the com­
mittee work. I am prepared to take the 
initiative and do the work. 
A dead SLC signals a dead student body. 
Why let administration and faculty think 
we don t care about the conditions of 
student life? Be positive. Support me. 
Rick Hilton District 
5 
The student body at Notre Dame is out of t t ·th th d .. t
con ac WI e a mm1s ration. In theory, the SLC should provide the means for liason through which the needs and wants of students could be satisfied. But the SLC has proven useless in such intercourse, a flacid phallus which renders the unaroused student body impotent. It is my purpose to act agressively to make our puny organ of expression potent. As the only means at our disposal to vent the basic frustrations of ND student life, it
h 
1

s ou d be exploited to the hilt. Use it, it's yours. 
Frank Devine District 5 
It's strange running for office again.
d
After a stint as assistant ombudsman an a frustrating term in the impotent senate, I left Student Government
· Why run for the S.L.C. now? We've had a void which needs to be 
filled. A void which has encouraged us to postpone the inevitable: al True co-education 
b) 
creating a usable student center 

c) 
co-residential dorms 

d) 
slowing rising room fees by cutting 


~ -~ 
back unnecessary services (option for all$ 
in bedmaking and clotheswashing). ~ 
5 They'll all come as surely as "co$ education". The S.L.C. must show thE§ university we have nothing to fear frorr€5 
tomorrow. I'll try. __
.§====_ 
Fred Giuffrida '5 
= 
District 6 ­
~ 
Tomorrow's election will bear directly§: upon the fate of both the SLC and studentS government, the latter because, should 5 Bob Kersten resign, the burden of reor-5 dering student government will probably 5 fall to this election's victors. Thus, it 5 
should be taken seriously. 5 Today, student Power 1·s dead. Now,=-­poobah pretentiousness must share its 5
casket ­· 5T~e present task, then, is adapting these~ bodJes to the remaining legitimate goal-to 5 
communicate the needs, wants and 5 feelings of the students to those in power.§ An earth-shattering goal? Certainly 5 not! Yet one that must be pursued. a
Thu th b · · • 
. s, e su miSSIOn of my name for·'!! thJs office. · ==.­
a 
Joe Lipka ~­D" t · t 
6 
IS riC = 
The problem facing the S.L.C. this year I is little student participation in deter-5 mining the agenda of the S.L.C. From 5 published articles, the S.L.C. agenda has=-­been described as "spontaneous" and 5 mostly dependant on student action. The a pre t t· i th t h t b = 
re sen a 1ves n e pas ave no een = active in helping form the agenda. A new i d" ct· · ded Th tud t b = 
Ire Jon IS nee . e s en mem ers = should be similar to a "consumer i protection group" in that they are aware of 5 current and future University operations 5 and use their influence to make the 5 Faculty and Administration aware of the§ students' roles in these plans. 5 

finlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIi 
-
New voters may decide presidential election 
<First-time voters --perhaps 25 million of them -may make the difference in this year's Presidential election. Star-News staff writer Duncan Spencer is crossing the country to talk with America's "New Voter." This is another of his reports.) 
by Duncan Spencer 
(c) 1972 Washington Star-News 
Los Angeles, Sept. 18 -Could it be only two years ago that the Bank of America at Isla Vista near the Santa Barbara branch of the University of California was burned? And campuses disrupted all over California'? The law and order was the issue. 
"SDS (Students for a Democratic Society) is dead," said a young man on a city campus here this week. "War is an issue that was adopted by upper-class whites and the college community--it was a moral issue. But now, to labor, the .issue is the meatheads in Washington; and in California, it's the economy, I guess." 
The speaker was 23-year-old Alan Ungar, a f irst-time voter himself, a community organizer 
daanesbury 
for McGovern in Los Angeles' Chicano-dominated 5oth assembly district, and a member of one of two armies of students who this are are scouring California for voters. In California as in few other states, the 18-to 24--year-olds are them­selves the active force in politics, as well as a brand-new element in the electorate. 
The issues of the campaign seem less and less important every day; two large groups of students and young people are struggling to register every voter they can. 
One of the more "elderly" campaign workers, Republican Bruce Nestande, 34, remarked: 'The California campaign is issue-free, I suppose. Registration is the ball game. It comes down to the organization." 
That's something the two parties can agree on. "Our plan," says Terry Friedman, one of McGovern's staffers in the San Fernando Valley, "is to register every McGovern supporter we can get our hands on." 
Republicans put is simply. "This is the most intensive cam­paign ever in the history of California politics," Nestande 

said. "It's a fortunate situation where only one person is running 
statewide  and  that's  the  
President."  
California  has  2,655,000  voters  

between the ages of 18 and 24, according to census bureau estimates. That'is more than any other state, by over 500,000. Of the total, 214,000 are black, more than any other state except for New York, and Chicanos make up another important bloc. More of the young here are either in college, through college, or about to begin college than in any other state. 
The sheer numbers of the first voters can make hash of the plurality enjoyed by President Nixon over Hubert Humphrey in 1968 --223,346. And even in the unlikely chance that Nixon could count on all of the 1968 Wallace of 487,270, the numbers are there to make the difference if the 18-to-24's actually do vote; only 54.6 per cent of the young part of the electorate went to the polls in 1968. 
Both parties have set up a bewildering number of headquarters throughout the state. The Democrats claim they will 
by ~:~arry lrudeau 
~-I! ~ SO Tfi/1T'5 I){)R fJE,t:IL-.---~~~,----3-iJ-T------. r--<>~~-,-, 
----=:.._..=-, ~ ,.__"&. IF YOU HELP ldiTf/ ~ IN /it-1.--1 ~G 
UQVQ' " ff/E COMNLJ#E, 1/.Q~()Il Flf!RNE£5, 0)1, W\)l -. . 0 VOl/ C/1# S111V NIKE, I HUST I<JfiRN 7Hf!T'5 ' 
()NTit VOl! FINO I C/II'('T YOU -WE. Hfii/E ~16HT; .. 9, ' • i .5!Y1E SORT 1 THANK V()() SOHE 1/ERV /.}EfiR, c n • : OF JOB I ENOU6H... A/EI/lO , 1 I... ~ Y,-: 
f'EOPt.E ((!}? ~ co Q ,; /'f::' 0 ; ~·~Dq-~~·i ~ q{' n~ _, ?, 

1 

, 
~~~:c;:;"~~~~ 
~[ ,;;,'$}!{/ , -~A~O~­l ~ 1~ ( '' J ·, · if!~# · "·· < '-" :>c32 
lec-~l 'PC I 11 ' ~/\ c"-'l .'" /l/'r:;" -?'( T 
\u!' · Q #: rf1i,/ 1•, T..-;.~-~ ----~V·.,.~ .-. • -~ · . '.::~ ~-o~};;}~! fl }1"";
. 
1, 

• ~~ ,-;,;,~·-.-(trr)),_ r ~ ·. ''"· :.!r:;.. • /' ~// 
have 200, split evenly between 
north and south, more than one 
apiece in the state's 80 assembly 
districts. The Republicans say 
they will have at least one every 
assembly district. 
Humphrey won handily in 
northern California, only to have 
his plurality of 300,000 votes wiped 
out by conservative votes in 
Orange County, and San Diego, 
Los Angeles County, which Nixon 
won by 43,000 votes out of 2.5 
million cast there, is the obvious 
battleground. 
But in California, the past 
seldom means that much. Things 
seem to work in reverses, like 
student radicalism going com­
pletely dormant. Instead of 
talking about overthrowing the 
system, the "new politics" has a, 
pitch that is so simple it is corny, 
like the coffee parties Terry 
Friedman is planning to zing them 
with in the San Fernando Valley. Friedman is 22, a graduate of the University of California at Los Aes, a pleasant young man with a face rimmed by frizzy hair. He is fond of calling the San Fernando Valley the sixth largest city in the United States, and in a way he's right. There are 2 million people here, neatly hemmed in by the dry and dusty Santa Monica moun­tains. The valley is connected to Los Angeles by freeways, famous ·for multiple collision disasters, 
and the valley is part of Los 
·Angeles county. 
There are five assembly district 
in the valley (three of them won by 
Republican assemblymen), a state 
university campus and two junior 
colleges. The area is described as 
mainly white and middle class. 
"This," says Friedman, glan· cing at the map of the valley behind him, "is the swing area. If we can win this area, we can win California." 

Art Auction 


featuring original works of graphic art-etchings, lithographs,-by leading 20th century artists: 
Picasso Dali Miro, Calder Chagall Friedlaender Searle Rouault Vasarely and others. 
.. 
THIS SAT., SEPT. 23rd! 
RAMADA INN 
52890 U.S. 31N 

AUCTION: 8:30P.M. EXHIBITION: 7:00-8:30P.M. All New HShow-Free Ad­mission ­
Free Book-Prints & Print­making Given Free to Each Buyer 
Presented by Meridian 
Gallery of Indianapolis 


of the programs with audio-visual -~a~id~e~s.:...------------------------~-========================== 
Tuesday, September 19, 1972

the observer
6 
Pat Nixon launches tour 
by Nan Robertson 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Chicago, Sept. 18-Mrs. Richard 
M. Nixon began her first and longest political swing on her own of the 1972 Presidential campaing today by declaring: "I'm taking the White House to the people." 
Mrs. Nixon's six-<lay schedule embraces seven states, three of them--Illinois, California and Texas--crucial in any race for the Presidency. 
Her first stop today was Chicago, a city that has not been carried by a Republican Presidential can­didate since Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1956. This trip has been frankly billed as "political" and the Committee to Re-elect the President is picking up the tab. 
The First Lady handshook her way through a lunchtime crowd on the steamy sidewalks of Michigan Boulevard in front of a Nixon Campaign headquarters. 
Surrounded by a tunnel of roughly shoving Chicago Police, Secret Service agents and television cameramen, she listened to a band render "Hail to the Chief" in a rock beat that made the tune that ushers in Presidents virtually unrecognizable. 
Then Mrs. Nixon toured the campaign headquarters seven stories overhead in an office skyscraper. There she talked with a 99-year-old volunteer, a wisp of a woman with a wisp of a voice, who danced at President William 

MANASA to conduct recruitznent zneeting
' . 
MANASA. the ND-SMCchapter of the Mental Health Association, is holding a membership-recruitment meeting for both new and old members tonight <Tuesday, September 19) in the Engineering Auditorium at 8:00p.m. All programs will be described by the chairmen 
The Hotline crisis phone needs volunteers to deal with problems such as drugs, pregnancies, suicides and boy-girl relation­ships. All volunteers will be trained to deal with the problems that they will come in contact with 
-
over the phones. Although the South Ward of Northern Indiana Children's Hospital has been isolated due to Salmonella, there are still many volunteers needed to work in the other two wards of this in-patient hospital for retarded children. T~enty-seven volunteers are needed to work in training therapy. Thirty volunteers can also be immediately placed in recreation therapy. Another forty-one volunteers are needed to assist at feeding times. In addition to this, a new program in which volunteers help teach retarded children how to swim needs as many as eighty­five volunteers. Halfway House , another project of MANASA, needs volunteers for their monthly party at this transitional home for formerly emotionally disturbed patients who need time to adjust after their hospital stay. We also need several volunteers for a one­to-one program with the residents. Unfortunaltely, Manasa s project at St. Joseph's Hospital's Psychiatric Ward will not continue this year, since the ward is being closed . All the patients will be moving to Memorial Hospital in a new and larger ward. The organization is proceeding to establishj a new program at Memorial's psychiatric ward for disturbed adults and adolescents who are anxious to engage in conversation, playing cards and games with student volunteers. This program will not get under way until mid-October. 
A couple of students with cars are also needed to work at .a Social Club for people with slight emotional problems. The volun­teer will assist with transportation and will participate in activities which will include cultural and · spart .events, recreational ·ac­tivities, etc. 

McKinley's second inaugural ball. She brought her birth certificate with her in case someone did not believe her age. 
Downstairs again, Mrs. Nixon heard 12-year-old Teri Serletic sing "Mr. Nixon in '72, is the man for me and you" in a piercing nasal whine that carried far beyond the crowd of several hundred still waiting for a glimpse of the First Lady. 
At a brief press conference in her hotel this afternoon, Mrs. Nixon became flustered when asked whether she thought the Watergate bugging investigation would "hurt the President's chances." 
She paused and then said ten­sely: : "No, I don't. The polls haven't indicated that. They know he has no part of it." 

Moreau seminary to discontinue Liturgy
The ll:OO a.m. Sunday Mass at Moreau Seminary which has long served as a regular liturgy for hundreds of university people will be discontinued this year. This announcement came after a meeting held by Moreau students and staff in early September. Moreau students and staff point out that the new music, new preaching, and other pioneering features which were brought in as innovations a few years ago, have become standard institutions in 

Student Union Social Commission 
announces 
Michigan State Football Game 





BUS TRIP 
Includes (1) Round trip bus fare 
(1) MSU foootball ticket 
All the pop and sandwiches you can eat 
Time Bus departs from Continuing Education Center at 8:00 a. m. Sat. Oct.7 and returns after game 
Price: $18.00 per person 
Sales will begin at 3:00 p.m. on Wed. Sept. 20 in the Fiesta Lounge of LaFortune. Limit one (1) ticket per person (Must have I. D.>. Tickets are limited. PAYMENT BY CHECK ONLY, Make payable to: 
Student Government Fund 
A questioner said: "When you and your husband discuss the election and the campaign, does the Watergate situation concern him?" 
Mrs. Nixon answered: "We don't discuss it, because all I know is what I read in the papers. That's the only knowledge I have, so there's no reason to discuss it. I think it's been blown completely out of proportion. I think the Chairman has answered all the questions on it." 
It was believed she meant Chairman Clark MacGregor of the Committee to Re-elect the President. 
"Are you concerned about what you read?" she was asked. "No, I'm not," she retorted. 
any number of local parishes and campus halls. Instead of duplicating, Moreau men will now concentrate on giving help to already-standing groups when such advise is sought. 
Moreau is intensifying its long­standing participation in the local parish scene and in social services. 
It will attempt to make more impact than before. Moreau's daily services, its morning and evening prayer and its Mass will be continued and are still open to visitors. It was decided to leave the large-scale Sunday celebrations to the hall chapels and to the Campus Ministry at Sacred Heart. Father William Toohey, who once resided at Moreau, has enacted a number of liturgical innovations since he became head of Campus Ministry, notably his Sunday 12: 15 Mass at Sacred Heart. 

September 30, in the A.C.C. Showtime -8: 30 All chair seats -$5.50 

Same good seats still available in the 

A.C.C. ticket office. (9-5 daily) 
"What is B & M?" 
Check Wednesday's Observer 
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY CITIZENS FOR McGOVERN 
YOU ARE INVITED TO ATTEND; 
Time--8:00 p.m. Date--Tuesday (every week) Where--301 North Michigan 
COld South Shore Station l 

-----------~-~-­
-~---~---­
Tuesday, September 19, 1972 the observer 
7 

Marx--confidence under pressure 
by Andy Scantlebury 
Greg Marx is a man who un­derstands pressure, whether it's the pressure of being the preseason favorite, or the pressure of being the dark horse. 
"Last year we were picked to be number one and this put a great deal of pressure on the team. This year we're green, but the pressure is still there. The pressure is the same, it's just on different people." 
Marx, the only returnee from last year's front four, is one of those "people" under pressure, but he views the season with a very positive outlook. 
"I think John Da!Jlpeer said it well: we've got a lot to prove. Our greenness has caused a great many questions and we do have a lot to do. But, we're talented of­fensively and defensively and I think we can do it." 
Greg was an academic All­American last year and this year he is rated one of the top defensive linemen in the country. This praise and attention means little to him, however. 
"Football is a team effort. For me to be successful, the team must be successful." 
This attitude is clearly demonstrated on the field by Marx. 
"I try to set the example by doing, not by saying. I realize that as captain I have certain responsibilities. I try to set a particl_llar style as a player. But the important thing is that I get the job done. This is the way the team feels it and I know we can all get the job done together." 
One of the big question marks in the defense this year is the secondary which was wiped out completely by graduation. Marx does not view this as a tremendous problem. 
"Believe it or not we're actually quicker in the secondary than we were last year." 
Another big question is whether or not the Irish offense is capable of improving upon their 22.5 points per game of last year. And, a great deal of attention has been given to the Irish quarterbacks. Tom Clements and Cliff Brown have both played well of late but still, many fans are wondering and even doubting this year's offensive potential. Marx, however, is superbly confident the of the Notre Dame attack. 
"Both Clements and Brown are talented and very capable of 

ND ruggers win, now 4 -0 
The Notre Dame rugby team ran ·its season record to 4-1 last 
weekend with a come-from-behind 
victory over the Cleveland Blues 
in Cleveland. 
The much bigger Cleveland 
team used its size to an advantage 
and rolled to an early 4-0 lead. The 
Irish tied the game shortly 
thereafter on a try by John 
Greving. The score followed 
several good tackles by the Irish 
serum, and Greving picked up the 
loose ball and dived the last few 
yards for the score. However 
Cleveland scored on the ensuing 
kickoff and stretched their lead to 
8-4. The Irish fought back to tie the 
game on a try by Lee Pallardy just 
before the half. 
Cleveland came out .strong in 
the second half and scored on a try 
and a conversion to take a 14-8 
lead. The Blues held this lead in 
the face of consistent Irish 
pressure but finally ND scored on a 
try by Pat Krueger. Krueger's 
tally cut the margin to 14-12 with 
little more than five minutes left in 
the game. The Irish tied the score 
on a controversial conversion 
attempt following the try. A 
Cleveland player jumped up to 
block a low kick by Ed O'Connell 
but instead tipped the ball over the 
crossbar. The referee ruled the 
kick good and the match was tied 
14-14. 
As it turned out the kick was not 
critical because the fired-up Irish scored again with a minute left in the game. Don Greiwe scored on a breakaway run and this time O'Connell's conversion left no doubt as the Irish assumed their final margin of 20-14. 
The main difference in the match was the better conditioning of NO's ruggers, which showed during their late second half rally. Cleveland simply ran out of gas but the Irish continued to make their own breaks and press for the winning scores. 
In the "B" game, Paul Collins' try gave Notre Dame a 4-0 victory over the Cleveland "B" side. The fine, hard-hitting play of the Irish serum in this mainly defensive match kept the Irish in the game. 
In the "C" game, Notre Dame lost to a combination of Clevelannd "A" and "B" players by the score of 13-6. 
The Irish travel to Kalamazoo this weekend to play Western Michigan and open at home on Sept. 30 against John Carroll University. 

Swimmers meet 
All Students interested in the Notre Dame s'wimming t earn are urged to attend a meeting on Wednesday September 20th in the Rockne Memorial Bldg., Room 216 at 5:00 P.M. 

Soccer squad drops pair 
by Mark Nishan The Notre Dame soccer team got its season off to an unimpressive start this year by losing its first two games. On Friday night the Irish were beaten by an excellent Indiana squad, 4-0. Then on Sunday af­ternoon Dayton handed them a 3-1 loss. Friday when they met In­diana they faced one of the toughest teams in the country. The Hoosiers had a record of 13 wins against no defeats last year. Their offense was sparked by Adi Aniteye who was second in the nation in goals scored last year with 31. Despite the score, though, NO's coach thought his defense played a commendable game. The Dayton game, though a loss, produced two good players. Forward Rick Coleman scored the team's only goal unassisted. And halfback Rick Eichnei played an excellent game. A team spokesman pointed to several reasons for such a poor start. The team has had only three practices and one practice game. Although they looked good in the 
practice game, winning 3-0, they were playing a lowly Bethel team. Secondly, the team is a young one with unseasoned players. 
Their new coach, Arno Zoske, has brought with him a "man to man" defense, with which the players are not experienced. And the most likely reason for the poor start was a shortage of players making the trip. Due to prior committments and other cir­cumstances only twelve hooters made the trip. Since there are eleven players on the field at the same time the Irish became physically exhausted. 
After the first two losses Coach Zoske said, "We weren't out­played, we were outconditioned." The coach also commented that he will move up Eichnei to the front line in order to produce more scoring punch. 
But the team still has prospects for a good season. They have played two of their toughest op­ponents. And as the season progresses the players will pick up valuable experience and will give future opponents a rough time. Experience is the key and only time will provide the skills needed to produce a winner. 

·getting the job done. Eric Penick 
· · has been unbelievable. I haven't 
seen anybody faster. And, he's not 
only quick but hardnosed, also. 
Eric can play "three yards and a 
cloud of dust" or explode around 
the end." 
Greg also has praise for wide 
receiver Willie Townsend. 
"Willie was overshadowed by 
Tom Gatewood but he's every bit 
as talented. He's one of the pride 
and joys of our offense." 
The "green' Irish take on Nor­
thwestern this Saturday, a team 
that lost to Michigan last Saturday 
by only seven points. 
"The score didn't surprise me," 
Greg remarked, "because 
Michigan was hit hard by 
graduation. Northwestern has 
always been a hard hitting ball 
club, though, and there's no doubt 
in my mind that they'll try to sting 
us Saturday." 
... 
A lot of teams will be out to 
"sting" the Irish this season. 
Coach Ara Parseghian has been 
called on to do his greatest 
rebuilding job since 1964. And, the 
questions won't be answered till 
the season gets under way in four 
short days. Marx, however, 
typifies the confidence found in 
this "green" Notre Dame squad. 
"There are a lot of questions 
about this team. But, they'll be 
answered the way Notre Dame 
Greg Marx --NO's defensive mainstay
wants them to to be answered." 
~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::::::::::::::
I Catch Mike Creaney's IIcolumn every Thursday I 

•
lD 
JIRISH SPORTS WEEKLYI 
:f JUST 15c PER ISSUEl t 

or by Subscription: 
1 semester -$1.50 on campus/ $3.00 by mail 
::::: 1 year -$2.75 on campus/ $6.00 by mail ::::: 
fl~l~ Delivered to your door :lll! \lll\ 
Send To: ·The Observer Box Q Notre Dame, Ind. ~~~~ 
Name 
Address 

Zip Code 


.. 


j 
Tuesday, September 19, 1972

the observer
8 



NEWS STAFF
Local units push McGovernl 

by Steven V. Roberts 
<c> 1972 New York Times 
Redwood City, California-About a dozen volunteers sat around a narrow table in a cavernous room that still bore the signs of Its for­mer function, a shoe store. Whites from the suburbs of Menlo Park and blacks from the ghettos of East Palo Alto, they sipped coffee from plastic cups and plotted how to elect Sen. GeorgeS. McGovern as President. 
The conversation bristled with words like "decentralization" "visibility" and "input" An expert on voter registration pointed to a wall map. The districts east of the freeway vote 85 per cent 
~he:'s~~~~tic,soconcentratethere, 
West of the freeway is only 56 per cent Democratic-low priority. 
The debate over where to put the local headquarters dragged on, and a black newspaper editor said angnly, "we don't have time to keep fiddling with it and playing games. We're interested in votes, period." 
That scene has probably repeated hundreds of times in 
recent weeks as the McGovern campaign passed Labor Day and began organizing in earnest for the November election 
The national campaign may be having its troubles, but the grass roots legions, who played such an important role in McGovern's quest for the nomination, are starting to march again. San Mateo County, just south of San Francisco, offers an in­teresting example of that local effort. The county's 700,000 

Ad:tninistrators view the SLC 
Continued from page 3 
did some faculty representatives in the report yesterday. "The people who get elected are naturally busy anyhow," he said. 
I 
r 
While incapable people are not desired, ti seems that the capable people who seek an SLC seat are usually active, he concluded. 
However, "It looks possible, it looks good, and it looks
t 
promising," to Fr. Shilts, who has
l 
been a member since the first
l 
meeting. 
Homework 

Dean Devere Plunket, of the Arts & Letters college, agrees with the general concensus among faculty 
and student members that "this is 
~he year the SLC must prove C1•nema 
Itself." 

'73 presents
The SLC can do this by examining significant problems, and "there will have to be some 

year's film schedule 
homework done about them ,"he 
states. By homework the dean 
means some papers or documents On September 23 and 24 (Sat. and which will be distributed to Sun.> Cinema '73 will open its members before the ~eeting date, s~ason with The Blue Angel, a 1929 · "to prime the individuals on the ftlm by Joseph von Sternberg. The' essentials of the questions to be film, for forty years hailed a discussed." masterpiece, will be shown in the 
In addition, many members Engineering Auditorium at 2 and 8 have not been able to speak for p.m.their constituencies because The sponsoring Cultural Arts "nobody really knew what their ~om_missio? clai~s th~t emphasis constituency was thinking," ac-m thts ~ear s festJv~I wtll be placed cording to the Director of Student upon ftlm as a umque and ever­
1increasing body of work. Each of

• t the twenty seven films in the series 
SU g l ves ou 
holds a prominent place as an important member contributing to

•f that body. All of them are made by
free g1 t-paX men who have, w~ether in the p&st 
or present, contnbuted greatly to 

Student Gift-Pax will be the development of the cinema as a available in the off-campus office valid and important art form. (LaFortune basement) between The first semester will carry 
12:00 and 1:00 this week. They eleven films. Highlights include a contain coed assortments and festival of 5 classic films from the 
~-male oriented product assortments silent era; Chaplin's The Gold as well. Only one gift-pax will be Rush, Griffith's Orphans of the handed out to each student. Bring Storm, Eisenstein's October, your ID for identifications. The Murnau's Sunrise, and Dreyer's gift-pax are compliments of Gift The Passion of Joan of Arc. Others Pax, lnc.,and the Student Union in the series will be Renoir's Servic:es Commission Rules of the Game; Hitchcock's 
i 
MEETING

E!;j 
E 

Tuesday 7:00 Fiesta Lounge La Fortune 

residents range from the poor blacks and Chicanos of East Palo Alto to the working class of Daly City to the affluent professions of Atherton. The San Mateo organization illustrates that the McGovern campaign did not spring suddenly to life on the college campuses. 
Rather, it is rooted in the educated, professional classes, and has woven together various threads 
of liberal activism that have been going on for some tome. 
With three draft-age sons, Martha Ziegler became involved in the antiwar movement and organized a petition drive to ban the manufacturing of napalm here in Redwood City. 
Running a general election campaign is a strange experience for many McGovernites. "I'm used to losing· the primary and having the summer off." laughed Mrs. Ziegler. 

Things  got  rough  after  the  (if you intend to write this  5  
primary they concede. In addition  
to the natural psychological let­down, dozens of out-of-state  year you must attend)  
volunteers  left  immediately,  
stripping  the  local  organization.  
Dropping Senator Eagleton form the  Thomas F. ticket had  WE NEED A DAY EDITOR  
"quite an impact." according Rod Minott, her co-leader.  to  FOR MONDAY  
But even though they had trouble finding volunteers and money, the .organizers did not stop, partly  (pa;d p0 5 ; t;0 n}  ===-==  
because the McGovern campaign  
is only one episode for them in a longer and larger battle. "I've been working too long at this to lose heart," said Mrs. Zeigler.  ==== = = lfiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~  
In  San  Mateo  the  local  

organization believes it is per-----------------------------, 
forming a critical task. "McGovern can win all the debates, and have a great image, but if we don't register 5 million new democrats we won't have a fighting chance," said Minott. 
Activities. 
Dr. Ackerman adds to the issue that students at many universities are "clammering" for the tri­partite body which Notre Dame has, but does not seem to work. He pleads partial ignorance as to why it will not work, but adds that the reason lies somewhere among the faculty, administration and students. 
To find the answer within that maze the SLC will have to know what its role is here at Notre Dame, and this is a task it can't perform alone. According to Dr_ Ackerman, "The SLC was created by someone, and it has to go back to the creator and way 'What is our 
purpose?' " All three factions seem to want the SLC to have one more chance. 

Allowing it to die could have tragic consequences, according to Dr. Ackerman, "By throwing out the wash, you may be throwing out the baby too." 
There is much the SLC could do this year, if it is taken seriously by its members. Besides "putting out fi.es" like the pornography con­ference four years ago, as Fr. Shilts said, it will be needed to give direction to the coeducation movement, examine security problems such as theft1 look into the problems of academ1c honesty, and play a major role in long range planning. . 
Of course it all boils down to F/Shilts' comment, "If the ~c worked and did its work, it would get the recognition and a,uthority it deserves." 
Shadow of a Doubt and Truffaut's The Wild Child. 
The second semester will carry sixteen films including two festivals. The first of these festivals will consistof five films by Roson Welles; Citizen Kane, The Magnificent Ambersons, Lady from Shanghai, Macbeth, and A Touch of Evil. The second semester will be a festival of five contemporary French classics; Truffaut 's Stolen Kisses, Malle's Zozie Dans le Metro, Chabrol's La Femme lnfidele, Demy's The Umbrellas of Cherbourg, and Godard's Breathless. Other highlights of the second semester include Ford's The Searchers and De Sica's The Bicycle Thief. 
Adm'iss'ion to the films will be one dollar for non-patrons; patrons are admitted free. The patron cards for the festival will go on sale Tuesday, September 19. Included in the six dollar fee is a magazine containing program notes for the films of the first semester and a listing of those films scheduled for the second semester. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: Couches $10-30. Chairs $3-7.50. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. Free delivery to campus. Open 
Sunday. 
2 beds mattress, box springs, head boards. $25 each or best offer. Call 272-2977. 
Sports car at economy car prices ­1971 Fiat 850 racer, vinyl hardtop, 35 M.P.G. excellent condition. 232-8830. 
For Sale: Typewriters -your choice $25. 7735, Brother Clarence. 
For Sale: Norelco Cassettes CHEAP. Guaranteed for life Call 1868 -Paul. 
Golf clubs 3 woods, 9 irons-cheap. 283-6878, Steve. 
1970 MGB roadster. Blue, 10,000 miles. Asking $2400. Call 234­8533. 
New Westinghouse compact refrigerators. 4.4 cubic It. capicity, full warranty, im­mediate delivery, costs less than leasing. Call now. Wynne's refrigeration Co. 234-0578. 
FOR RENT 
Rooms for rent, cheap. 233-1329. WANTED 
Needed: FOUR PURDUE TIX. Call John 8810. 
Wanted: Part-time legal secretaries to assist small law firm. General practice. Inquire: 920 South Bend Avenue; 234-3216. 
NEED 3 or 4 general admission tickets to either Pittsburgh or Missouri game. Call Pat, 3277. 
Need 2-3 general admission tix for Purdue, call 1946. 
Ride needed to Ohio Northern (or vicinity) in Ada Ohio -any weekend; contact Rick by calling 8917 will pay. 
Need Purdue tix. Will pay your price. Call 7819, 78121 or 7471. 
1 or 2 housemates needed -732 Penna. Ave. Cheap, good ac­comodations with 2 seniors. 2 bedroom, furnished call Mark or George at 289-5940. 
Need 4 tickets for Missouri. Call 287-6154 in p.m. 
Want 4 or 6 tickets for either Purdue or Missouri. Will pay. Call 255-4922 nights. 
3 off-campus students seek 4th housemate. Private bedroom. 2 blocks past Corby's. Call 232-3560 
1029 E. Miner 
Need Purdue tickets, general admission or student. Call Frank 8825, or Ed 8463. 
Help! I desperately need 1-4 general admission tix for Purdue game. Name your price. Call Mike 6984. 
Need 2 general admission tix to Pittsburgh. Must be together. Ca II John 7845. 
Needed: 3 general admission tickets for Pittsburgh. Contact Joe, 7471 or 232-5622. 
Need ride to Cleveland on Friday, Sept. 22. Call Mary Beth 4391. 
Need 2 general admission Purdue tix. Will pay. Call 3494 after noon or after 11 pm. 
Help! I need 1 or 2 general ad­mission tix for Purdue. I will beat any reasonable otter! Call Gene, 8424. 
NOTICES 
Europe and back for $190! How can you afford to stay home? Call Clark, 283-8810. 
Morrissey Loan Fund open. 
Borrow up  to  $150.  11:15-12:15  
Monday thru Friday.  La Fortune  
basement.  

PERSONALS 
Is the miss Illinois Teenage America contestant alive and well at Notre Dame. RSVP Delbert. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: black leather handbag on September 5 
Lost: black leather handbag on September 5 on NO campus. Contact S. Fitzmyer; 4381. Reward. 
Brown wallet lost around Stanford Hall, Sunday. Reward-Jim 8725. 
Found: High school ring at Rockne · call Bill 1143. 
Found: Contact lens case in fron of bookstore. Call 8219. 
Words 1da 2da lda 4da 5da 
1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31·35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.7S 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 

l .. 









