
Cold with a chance of snow. 

of notre dame -st. mary's Thursday, March 2, 1972Vol. VI, !'Jo. 91 

Kersten withdraws! 
I am well pleased with your works, My Son. They have shown The Observer to be a bush 
league manipulator of student opinion and have given student government a fresh perspective on itself. Moreover, they have shown people that there is too much gravity in life to take any 

Late Bulletin 
Saying only that the Prime Mover works in 
election too seriously. It now appears that there

strange ways, R. Calhoun Kersten issued the 
are those who would take You from Your

following statement at 4 am this morning. Paul 
Commode and raise You to a higher position

Dziedzic was not available for comment at that 
dealing with the same substance. You have

time. The following is the text of his withdrawal 
better things to do and must study to get an "A"

state111 ent.---Ed. 
to go to med school. Yet, there are those in office, whom you have touched, who must remember Your Word or shall fear Your return. For should I deem it proper, I shall send You again. Let Gentlemen, I must report that the Word of Your coming be a sign to smash the sacred God, upon which We have been dependent golden image of the poobah but let You getthroughout this campaign, has shifted. We Yourself the hell out. This is My will. 

received a vision last night, while praying ar­Who am I to argue with the Prime Mover's dently for victory at the Grotto. The wind rose Mover? 
up, the lightning flashed, the thunder roared and signed,We were struck by God's Word like a piece of hail The Prime Moverfrom above. He spoke thus: 

Kersten ... Dziedzic... 
by .Jim Roe by two weeks." by Jim McDermott ministration, Dziedzic asserted, "In The crowd's reaction to Kersten's and Fred Schaefer effect the administration had said Approximately 1300 students and speech was mixed. Many just listened, "There is a challenge to student might makes right. We must be willing faculty listened to SBP hopeful, R. while others cheered constantly. government this year," said SBP to stand up in a confrontation situation. Calhoun Kersten, as he spoke from the Walt Patulski, Notre Dame defensive We have to be willing to sacrifice as
candidate Paul Dziedzic last night. "Itfourth floor ledge of Walsh Hall early end, gave an introducory speech in must remain a positive effort during men for the right to make our own 
last night. which he pointed to the Prime Mover's the next year." decisions." Kersten, calling himself The Prime power. Patulski cited the fact that he Mover. told the crowd that "The had been a 90 pound weakling prior to 
Campaigning in Morrisey, Howard, Dziedzic was frequently questionedpoobahs are on the run. The poobahs," meeting Kersten. 
Zahm, Cavanaugh, B-P and Stanford­about Bob Kersten's campaign forc~ntinued Kersten, "have fought us Kersten's campaign manager, H­Keenan, Dziedzic continued to hammer student body president. "He has foundwith sla~?er, rumors and a great deal , man, encouraged the crowd to vote at the election theme of challenging the a sensitive nerve in the student body. Itof truth: once again for Kersten and praised student body to assert themselves as is not apathy, as some people say, butStandmg b~tween two orange flares them for their strong showing in adults. "It's our battle and our con­frustration. The people see mediocrityand clothed m a regal costume, Ker-Tuesday's election. 
victions--we have to be willing to in decision making, in the food, in a lot sten, w~o polled 35_.8 per~ent . of Earlier in the day, Kersten made sacrifice for them." of important day to day things. They're Tuesday s vote, proclaimed_ his pohcy successful appearances in the South mad that student government has been to_wards ~~e unmerger sta~mg that he Dining Hall. Entering the room to the "Part of the problem," he said, "is so inactive. There is a positive element will call for a state w_e~dmg betw_een strains of "Pomp and Circumstance," that we never talk about our com­in this that should not be negated."
myself and S. Alma to JOin the two m a the Prime Mover received a thunderous mitment. We leave it to the ad­bond of mut~al disgust." . standing ovation from the students. 
ministration. Take vandalism for an "People from both extremes areIn answenn~ the_ question of the As Kersten completed his address, he example. Too often we ask 'why can't saying that I have to defend studentAugust 29 reg1strabo? date for next turned into the hallway of Walsh Hall the RA's take care of it?' The challenge government, and that's bullshit. I never semester, Kersten claimed that he had and as he did so, the bells of Sacred is the student body's, and no one have considered myself a poobah. I wasspoken with God in an attempt to solve Heart Church began to sound. Crowd else's." in student government to do somethingthe problem. "God," Kersten assured reaction to the bells was definitely in Addressing himself to the ad-for the students."
the crowd, "has agreed to extend July favor of Divine intervention. 

Corso steps down 
Abowd to be new Observer editor 
by Jerry Lutkus 
Observer News Editor 
Glen Stuart Corso steps down today as Editor-in-Chief of The Observer, a position he has held since October 1, 1970. Succeeding to the position will be new editor John Abowd. 
Abowd, a Junior Economics major from Farmington, Michigan, has served as Assistant Editor-in-Chief since mid-October when he moved up from his position as News Editor. Prior to this, Abowd was Executive Editor and a Night Editor. 
Filling the post of Executive Editor will be Junior Don Ruane from Pleasantville, New Jersey. Ruane's experience in campus journalism includes being Campus Editor and Managing Editor for the Observer. 
The new Managing Editor will be Joe Abell. Sophomore Abell, a resident of Dallas, Texas, assumes responsibility over the production aspect of the paper. Since his arrival at the paper, Abell has served as a Night Editor. 
Remaining as head of the News 
Department of The Observer will 
be Jerry Lutkus, a Sophomore 
from Cleveland, Ohio. Lutkus has 
served since mid-October as 
News Editor and will retain the 
position. 
New to the News Department hierarchy will be Maria Gallagher who will succeed Ann Conway as St. Mary's Editor. Ms. Gallagher, who comes from 
Delaware City, Delaware, has served as Sunday Night Editor during her Sophomore year. 
Succeeding to Ruane's post as Campus Editor will be SMC Junior Ann Therese Darin Miss Darin of Lathrup Village, Michigan, has been an Observer Associate Editor during the 1971­72 school year. 
The Sports Editor's job will be retained by Junior Jim Donaldson, an American Studies major from Pawtucket, Rhode Island. Donaldson has served in that capacity since March of 1971 when he replaced the retiring Terry Shields. 
Jim McDermott, a Junior Economics Major moves from his Tuesday Night Editor's slot to the chore of Editorial Page Editor. McDermott, a resident of Edison, New Jersey, has been a stalwart of the night staff since his beginnings on The Observer. 

The thankless jobs of night editing now falls on five people. S~mday Night Editor is Jim Roe of Spokane Washington. Anthony Abowd of Farmington, Michigan is Monday Night Editor. Sophomore Jack Frischkorn of New Brighton, Pennsylvania moves into the Tuesday night opening. Veteran Dan Barrett of Grosse Pointe Farms, Michigan remains as Wednesday night Editor. The Thursday Night Editor's slot falls to Joe Abell. 
Corso, Ann Conway, of Falls Church, Virginia and Mike Murphy, photo editor, are the only Seniors stepping down from the staff. Corso and Conway plan on law· school next semester. Murphy looks forward to a career in photography. 
Corso has served longer than any other Observer editor having edited 200 editions of the daily newspaper. He accepted the position in October, 1970 taking over for Dave Bach. At the time, The Observer had suspended publication and it was uQcertain if it would continue at all. 
At a fierce editorial board meeting where Robert Sam Anson, former editor of The Observer appeared, Corso was voted to succeed Bach. Since that meeting, the paper has not missed a single day of publication. Under his strong will and guiding control, The Observer· has grown from a weak uncertain daily to a strong, certain, demanding college daily newspaper. 

Page 2 THE OBSERVER Thursday, March 2, 1972 


VP Gaal survives re1noval try; SMC Asse~nbly drops Galena 
A third attempt to remove 

appointed Saint Mary's Student 
Body Vice-President John Gaal 
failed in the Student Assembly 
last night by three votes. In other 
action, the Assembly remo~ed 
assemblywoman Darlene Gallma 
from office becuase she has 
moved from her constituency 
since the time of her election. 
The Assembly also allocated 

surplus funds to the Student 
Union, to an organization for 
volunteers to Appalachia, and to 
four students for expenses at the 
National Student Body Con­
ference. 
Student Assemblyman Jim 

ct'arke proposed both the G~llina 
and the Gaal actions. He said he 
had received complaints from 
residents in LeMans Hall, Ms. 
Gallina's original constituency. 
This was supported by Sue 
Ogesbee, another representative 
from LeMans. . 
Mary Walsh, representative for 

Hegina Hall, questioned wh~ no 
action had been taken s1~ce 
Christmas. when Ms. Gallina 
moved off-campus, and Ms. 
Oglesbee said she had not known 
of the move until recently. The 
vote was 6 to 2 to expel Gallina, 
with seven abstentions. 
Clarke then brought up the question of the election held Thursday, saying that John G~al had not handled the election properly. Eileen Fitzpatrick, one the candidates and a member of the Assembly, related the election committee report to the Assembly, noting that she had 

Meeting tonight for Irish Justice Co~n1n. 
The Notre Dame Committee for Ulster Justice will hold its first formal meeting Thursday evening at 8:30 in the rec room ?f Lewis Hall. Denise Askin, who IS organizing the group is a member of the American Committee for Ulster Justice, headed by· Dermot Foley and Paul O'Dwyer in New York City. 
The national association has been instrumental in gathering support among congressmen. in Washington for a resolution referred in October by Ted Kennedy and Abraham Ribi~off to the Committee on Foreign Relations. The resultion calls for the termination of the interment policy and the rel~ase of ~he prisoners detained without. ~rial, the termination of political, social, economic and religious discrimination in Northern Ireland, and the implementation of the reforms in housing, law enforcement, employment and voting rights promised by the tmtam government in 1968. The resolution also advocates the abolition of the Stormont government, the withdrawal of British troops from Northern Ireland and the initiation of negotiations for the re-unification of Ireland. , 
The committee is also spon­soring the nationwide boycott of British goods led by Teddy Gleason of the Internationl Longshoremen's Association and Matthew Guinan of the Transport Workers' Union, scheduled to 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ec­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and st. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box 
Q,  Notre Dame,  Indiana  46556,  
Second class postage paid.  Notre  
Dilme, Ind.  46556.  

"no concrete pr-oof" when she 
told the elction committee that 
votes had been manipulated in 
her favor. 
Student Body President Kathy 

Barlow then revealed that 1009 
ballots had been cast, but only 952 
names were checked off. 
Arrowsmith speaks 

011 modal thought in 
Ward-Phillips series 

Dr. William Arrowsmith, professor of classics at Boston University, will deliver the 1972 Ward-Phillips lecture series at the University of Notre Dame March 6-9. 
The series is sponsored by the department of English and honors two ·deceased faculty members, from that department, Hev. Leo L. Ward, C.S.C., and Prof. Charles Phillips. 
A specialist in modal t~ought _in literature, Arrowsmith will present talks on "The Nature of Modal Thought: A Glance at <:itgamesh and Achilles," "The Modal Nature of Character and Action in Drama: Euripides' 'Alcestis'," "A Modal Critique of Culture and Politics: Aristophanes' 'Birds'," and ''White Men and Red Men: An American Modal Encounter." 
The talks are at 4 p.m. daily in the Memorial Library Auditorium and are open to the public. 
begin on March 1. 
The Notre Dame committee, which had an orgainizational meeting on Monday, will _be primarily concer_ne~ w1th publicizing the situation m Ulster and in gathering moral support and funds. "As the 'Home of the Fighting Irish' and an institution dedicated to the freedom .of religion," said Miss Askm, "Notre Dame should long ago have made a statement against the wanton disregard of civil rights in Northern Treland." 
Fourteen ballots were changed. 
Though Election Committee 
chairman Gaal was not at the 
meeting, committee ~ember 
Nancy Christopher sa1d that 
today's voting will take place at 
only one box, which will move 
from Madeleva Hall in the 
morning, to the dining hall at 
lunch, to the lobby of McCandless 
during the afternoon, and the 
dining hall again at dinner. 

Former SBVP Jean Gorman 
then asked why more care was 
not taken for Tuesday's election. 
Ms. Christopher defended the 
committee, arguing that Notre 
Dame had all the locked boxes. 
Ms. Gorman argued that there 
should be at least two boxes for 
convenience in today's election. 
This was rejected. 

Ann-Marie Tracey, former 
SBP contended, "Anybody who tries' to run an election and doesn't consult the people who ran it last year, and doesn't read the election manual... is in­capable of carrying it out and a · new election chairman should be 
named." 

C'larke meanwhile had called 
for a reconsideration of the vote­
of-confidence given Gaal two 
weeks ago, arguing, "We have to 
stay up to our responsibility in 
following the procedural manual 
when all the other students have 
to." 

Clarke also cited sections of the 
manual to help support his 
claims. 

Ms. Gorman added that the 
issue of Gaal's appointment was 
not yet dead, since the SBVP 
must deal with the whole com­
munity and not just the students. 
"It's a question you people had 
better face," she said. 

The Assembly voted to reaf­
firm Gaal, 9 to 6, with one ab­
stention. 

In other action, the Assembly voted $2000 to the Student Union at the request of Union Director Bill McGrath. McGrath said that it was necessary to save some "very good programs," including the appearance of Rev. Jesse .Jackson. 
$200 was given to Frank Miklavic, from an organ~zation doing volunteer work m Ap­palachia, and $280 will finance a trip by four SMC students to the National Student Lobby Con­ference over Spring Break. 


Alumni Club 
(Senior· Bar) 
Once again 



Ch~P'Ped 


Lips 
Playing :Saturday from 9-1 
1Oct Schlitz


PLUS 
from 7-9 

a few good men 
Dining Halls Noon and Evening Meals Today through 3 March 


Thursday, March 2, 1972 THE OBSERVER 
Page 3 
Washington--The top Democratic and Republican officers of the 
on campus today
House protested indignantly because only Senate leaders had been invited to go to China. Speaker Carl Albert threatened "appropriate


world 
7: 00--meeting, smc freshmen law suit against smc, augusta hall
action" unless new invitations were arranged. 
lounge. 

Washington--The Senate passed, 86-1, the Bill formally raising the 
8:00 & 10:00--movie, gimme shelter, washington hall. 
price of gold from $35 to $38 an ounce--thus reducing the international value of the dollar. Prompt House action is expected on the bill, which 
8:00--lecture, william f. may, library auditorium. 
has no practical effect since the dollar has already been devalued. 
8:30--meeting' committee for ulster justice, lewis hall
briefs 

Washington--A special session of the Senate Judiciary Committee basement. was scheduled for Thursday after deputy Attorney General Richard 
G. Kliendienst asked for an opportunity to deny allegations that the at notre dame -st. mary'sJustice Department acted improperly in settling its antitrust action
(c) 1972 New York "nmes 
against the International Telephone and Telegraph Company. 


SMC ballot tampering 
Gaal explains trouble 
by Larry Dailey SMC Election Committee head John Gaal explained yesterday afternoon that, contrary to previous reports, ballot tam­pering ocurred not only in Augusta Hall, but throughout the campus. Gaal also stated not all the ballots that were tampered with were in Miss Fitzpatrick's favor. Ms. Lorraine Sofranek, SMC Election Committee member, indicated, "the Election Com­mittee counted the ballots twice last night. It was obvious that 17 of the ballots had been deliberately tampered. Pen­written choices of one color ink were crossed out by another color ink, and pencil-written names were marked over by pen." "However, these were not the only problems, " Ms. Sofranek added. "Throughout the campus, there was a discrepancy between the number of ballots and the number of signatures. We had all the girls sign the ballots and, admittedly, some might have made the innocent mistake of forgetting to sign their names. But, then again, at times there 
were large crowds mulling around the voting tables and some might have thrown some ballots in without signing them­thus making them invalid," she said. 
The Dean of Students at St. Mary's, Ms. Kathleen Mulaney, indicated that more precautions would be taken for the Thursday election. "There will be only one voting location available at a time. and the taple will be manned by the election com­mittee at all times," she vowed. "All the ballots are going to be 
initiated by the Election Com­mittee member before being placed in the box, and the can­didate)> themselves will have the opportunity to watch the ballots being taken. 
"Granted this will not be as 
convenient, however our chief 
concern is that the election is fair 
and that the choice of SBP is 
representative of all the 
students," she commented. 
Ballot tampering was first 
reported by Ms. Fitzpatrick to 
John Gaailast night. The Election 
Committee immediately met 
with the other candidates to 
disclose the details. 
Ms. Sofranek, indicated that 
an agreement was made not to 
disclose the meetings details. 
"We drew up an official 
statement which explained what 
had happened," she stated. "The 
purpose of the statement and 
agreement not to disclose the 
details publicly was because we 
tried not to blame either can­
didate, since neither of them were at fault. Unfortunately, Jean Seymour called me early Wednesday morning and said she had decided to make public her own statement. They gave us their word, yet they backed down on it." 
According to Election Com­mittee head John Gaal, the rumor concerning Augusta Hall cropped up during discussion with the candidates Tuesday night. 
"Someone, during the talks, gave an example which used Augusta Hall. However, nobody said it was merely Augusta. It 

SMC Student Government Vice­

was only used as an example," 
President John Gaa I

r;aal said. 
Tuesday night, the SMC eledion. com~

SMC mittee, after discovering obvious alterations in more than one ballot, decided to invalidate the whole proceedings. A new election will be held

Election 
Thursday and voting will take place in the SMC cafeteria during the meal hous (lunch and dinner) 
Madeleva between 9 a.m. and 11 a.m. and McCandless from 2:00 to 4:30 


Schedule 
BEST BANDS IN TOWN 
-Two Bands a night -Dancing 6 nights a week 
(closed Monday.) -No cover on Tues., Wed., Thurs. -Open till 2 a.m. 
"One stop entertainment center" 


Cocktail Lounge Bowling Billiards 
S~u/a:'s JV/te C/ut 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
616/683-4350 



PATH TO A MULTITUDE OF CAREERS 
Dr. Frank Leurssen 
V .P. of Research -Inland Steel (Presented by ASM Student Chapter) 
Thur. March 2 Rm. 303 
7:30 pm Eng. Building 
YOU GET· 
BE'I"IER LOOKING AT UNION with CONTACT LENSES 
No hassle. Slip into the action with better vision without bother. Contact lenses help you see better, keep you looking great. Feel free to join the action with contact lenses ... You get better looking at Union. 
Phone 875-5183 
Cultural Arts Commission's Fund Raising Films presents 



GIMME SHELTER 
with Rolling Stones 
Thurs. & Fri. March 2 & 3 
·Wygant Floral Co. 
Flowers for all occassions 
327 Lincoln Way 
West 232·3354 


8 & 10 pm Washington Hall 
Fund Raising Film Patrons {purple card) Free! Admission $1.50 
~----------------------­
Page 4 THE OBSERVER Thursday, March 2, 1972 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER  
F.ditor-in-Chlef. Glen S. Corso  
i\uiataa& E4Uter  Assistant F.ditor  
T.C. Treai!:OI'  "Democracy  is  a  system  where  John Abowd  
Business Mau1er Jim. Jendryk  the people get what they want, and deserve to get it good and hard."-· H.L. Mencken  Advertising Manager Bill Bauerle  

Bu~iness: 283-7471 News: 283-1715 
The Merger Morass 
The great merger talks--called off in November, ressurected in late December and apparently dead again in February--are perhaps the worst collection of hypocrisy and double dealing these two campuses have ever seen. 
The good nuns have piously run around and proclaimed that they were completely frank and open in their dealings with Notre Dame. The problems, both sides claimed, were complex financial ones, so complex that mere students could never hope to understand them. 
Well as it turned out they weren't that complex. What they exhibited, above all, was good old fashioned human greed. The nuns were willing to give up "a bit" of autonomy, in order to consumate the merger. But in return they wanted Notre Dame to guarantee that St. Mary's would remain "essentially" the same, and they wanted the protection of the Notre Dame financial umbrella. 
It is obvious that the deal was unacceptable to Notre Dame. It is also obvious that it should be unacceptable to Notre Dame. The type of relationship envisioned by the sisters was proposed by Park-Mayhew in their report. That report was rejected by the hierarchy of both schools, supposedly. The structure that was supposed to emerge from the merger was to combine the best elements of both schools. It was not designed to have St. Mary's as an autonomous woman's liberal arts college.
The sisters were probably correct in assuming a hard negotiationstance, in order to insure that merger did not turn into adsorption. But to stick to that position, despite guarantees that the unification of the two institutions would truly be a merger is ridiculous. 
In all-girl Catholic, liberal arts college could probably survive in the years to come. There are lots of people, every year, who try to get into college and can't make it. A healthy percentage of these , no doubt, could afford the tuition of St. Mary's . 
Itwill prove impossible for St. Mary's to remain a good all girl Catholic liberal arts college in the coming years. In competition with Notre Dame, St. Mary's can't help but come off second best. All the people who steer women to St. Mary's will start to steer the best of these high schools seniors to Notre Dame. That move is only natural. 
As a university, Notre Dame has a wider variety of courses, a higherquality of faculty and in general a better education. Added to that is the fact that it will probably be slightly cheaper. 
The great mass of alumni of DuLac, who currently urge their sons to attend, also have daughters, who undoubtedly they will also urge to apply to Notre Dame. 
The Holy Cross Nuns have labored long and hard not simply to provide an education for Catholic women, but to provide a good education as well. If they unify with Notre Dame this proud tradition will be carried on. If they don't then St. Mary's present philosophy will be replaced with that of Parson's College in Iowa, "everyone is worth educating," and that would be a pity. 
Last Hurrah=================================:=:=:=:=====:=======:=================================================:=====:============:!=;=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=;=;======================================= 
John Gaal & the SMC Election 
===========::::::::::::::::;:;;;:::::;:===========================================;====================================================:=========================================·Ann Con way 
The St. Mary's Student body election has legitama tely? once again been boggled miserably. 
Perhaps the tampering occurred during the Tuesday's election was thrown out this time day. But some doubt can be cast on that. For because 40 ballots were found fradulent and all 40 ballots were reportedly tampered with the Student Body Vice President, elected 

in the same manner. illegally according to the St. Mary's Then comes the count of John Gaal. After procedural manual did not bother to exercise telling the Obst>rvt>r that he had counted all his option of throwing out these ballots and the ballots he told a past SBVP that he had not completing the count, and declared the counted the ballots but had instead declared t'lection invalid causing the need for a new the election invalid as soon as discrepancieselection to be held. appeared. So today it comes out that to make 
Once again the Student Procedural Manual amends to the procedural manual he came in was grossly violated by those supposedly in the dead of night and made a one man count-­
power and representing the student body. Mr. sorry, John, but according to the manual the Gaal. apparently unaware of the section of ballots must be counted before the election the procedural manual which demands that committee, and representatives of the two the votes in the election be counted right after candidates. 
the election and then once again 24 hours later All in all, this election has only proven the ineptly screwed up a valid election, and by his ineptitude of the student government at St. bungling the student government of St. Mary's this year. Gross violation of the Mary's will once again have a chaotic turn­procedural manual coupled with an illegal over at a crucial time in its existence. election of a male vice president (perhapsWhat about those 40 votes which were Kerstan would lend Uncandidate Cat for the tampered with' How could they be tampered next election) have made a sham of student with when election procedure calls for locked government and this election in particular.ballot boxes to be used. The brown cardboard Today the new election will be held. It's a box in my hall (perhaps handsomely taken shame that it has become a necessity for one from the A & P l for the occasion had to be held--an inconvenience to the can­no lock, one person watching it and only God didates, the student body and an insult to the knows where it went at 6 pm when the polls intelligence and integrity of those who voted closed. But obviously it went into the hands of in good faith the first time. I ask that the some unscrupulous persons who wanted the students take the time to vote again and this election thrown out. How did 40 ballots in one time I hope that those who are elected will dorm suddenly get tampered with? Was correct the chaotic state in which the present someone afraid of losing or even winning administration has left student government. 
The Merger Morass ===================:t=====================;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:======== 
$MC: The 'un' One 
:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:=:=:=:Ann-Therese Darin 
Tlw Securities Acts of 1933 is designed to provide disclosure to in­
vt>stors of material facts concerning securities publicly offered for 
sale by the use of mails or instrumentalities of interstate commerce, 
either by an issuing company or by any person in a control relation­
ship to such company, and to prevent misrepresentation, deceit, or 
other fraudulent practices in the sale of securities generally. 
Invest $3700 in the stock market today and this law will protect you 
from "misrepresentation," "deceit," and "other fraudulent prac­
tices." But, invest that same $3400 in a St. Mary's College education 
and what protects the investor? 
What protects the investor in a $15,000 St. Mary's education from the 
exaggeration of the college's catalogue in course number and 
description? Consider, for example, this year's academic bulletin. In 
the Biology Dept., what happened to "Advanced Genetics," 
"Evolution," or "Introduction to the Cell"? Alive and flourishing on 
paper -dead as an empty classroom in reality. Or what about the 
more than 20 courses in the Art Department? Especially the eye­
catchers such as "Soul: Intercultural Education" which appeal to the 
high school English-Math-History-sick senior? Granted a little 
irregularity is expected since each course must have a ten student 
minimum for a class, sometimes not reached. But can lack of students 
explain two solid pages (over 18 courses) of Economics and Business 
classes which didn't materialize? 
Or more astonishing, the philosophy department, sans department 
head, with two pages or just about the whole department in limbo? 
While the catalogue dictates an SMC phil. major must take nine hours 
of upper division at SMC, this year's philosophy major will be lucky to 
find even six hours offered on the west campus. With the Political 
Science Dept., what happened to over% of the department offerings 
not taught? 

Merger can not be used as an excuse. This catalogue was prepared 
during the unification negotiations. In fact, the catalogue boasts on 
page 8, 

'"To pt>rpetuate this historical commitment in May, 1971, the two in­
stitutions agreed to a unification which will create a center of total 
t>ducational opportunity that could not be achieved by either in­
stitution alone. Within this unified structure, and in light of the 
<·hanging role of woman today, particular emphasis will be placed on 
tlw full and equal participation by women in the intellectual and social 
life of the University. 
The ultimate goal of this unification is a single institution with one 
student body of men and women, one faculty, one president and ad­
ministration, and one Board of Trustees. The unificiation of all 
academic departments of Notre Oanw and St. Mary's College was 
begun in Sept., 1971. The academic year 1974-75 is the target date for 
completion of unification." 
But this week, two Trustees of St. Mary's have resigned--disgusted 
with the decision-making of a select group of the Board of Trustees' 
l~xecutive Committee, the nuns, to retrench and start storing up nuts 
for the hard winters ahead. One of the trustees resigning leaked the 
"merger-off" story to the Observer which printed the information only 
after checking with more than six members of the SMC Executive 
Committee plus top administrators and trustees from both Notre 
Dame and St. Mary's. They unhesitatingly authenticated a sur­
prisingly high per-cent of Fr. McCluskey's remarks. 
This first week of March is also the deadline for SMC department 
chairmen to submit to the academic dean's office the list of courses to 
be offered next year ON THE SMC CAMPUS. Even though the true 
number of courses which the department heads are certain of offering 
may not fill more than one of those un-appetizing virgin-blue 
recruitment fliers sent to next year's freshman class, it would, at 
least, be the truth. 

Last December, when the students at St. Mary's activated against the administration, Board of Trustees, and Sisters of the Holy Cross, there was a reason -more fundamental than the unmerger .. for the signs, strike and television cameras roaming cross-campus. It was the lack of full disclosure --the insults hurled down from the O'Laughlin stage by the administration. Questioned on why the merger was terminated and what was the financial obstacle the administration flaunted, "Oh, you wouldn't understand ... It's much too com­plicated!" 
The students of St. Mary's College maybe too stupid to understand the financial webbery which snarled and cnoked the merger. But, the St. Mary's establishment should also realize that it is these same stUJ)id students and stupid parents who are shelling out $3400 a year of hard-earned a:.d bankloaned money to finance SMC operations. Unless the Sisters want the nuts they are storing up for winter to be in the form of academically-inept students, they should agree with Notre Dame administrators to make full-disclosure to the students of St. Mary's NOW.. .instead of waiting for the summer "tog-late-to-apply­to-anywhere-else" months to blast students with the "NO MERGER" news. That would be a cruel (but at this moment odds-on bet) trick. 
This week it was reported that the Sisters of the Holy Cross are preparing to ditch their rosaries for adding machines, to bury the '"nunny" heavenly gaze for the steely penetration of the businessman. The Sisters of the Holy Cross, Incorporated are preparing to give birth to St. Mary's College, Incorporated. Itis hoped that with the transition in their lives, they will acquire business ethics-full disclosure, as described in the Securities Act of 1933 ·· none of the "misrepresen­tation", "deceit", or "other fraudulent practices" which have characterized this year's dealings with students' 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllnlllllllllllllllllllllllllllflllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll .. The staff of the Observer wish to publicly thank Glen Corso for aII that he has done for them since he took over as Editor-in-Chief last year. Somehow a "thank you" doesn't seem to express our gratitude for a job well done and the coutless hours it took to do it. So, to the 'top wop', our best in whatever you attempt after this. 
The Whole Staff 

Assistant Editors: John Abowd, T. C. Treanor. 
Campus Editor: Don Ruane . . ~ 
Ed·t J' D ld N1te Ed1tor: Dan Barrett, Beth Hall
Sports 1or: 1m ona son .
A C Layout: Jerry Lutkus, Pete FnesSMC Ed.t 
1or: nn onway H dl. J h Kl D 
D. t M'k M h ea mes: o n oos, andy Don
A t

r 1rec or: 1 e urp y N't c t 11 h B d 
N, Ed"t J L tk 1 e on ro er: Jo n ra y
,ews 1 or: erry u us Pictureman: Bob Hughes 
Thursday, March 2, 1972 THE· OBSERVER Page 5 




Peeking th...-u the merger blackout 
by Ann Therese Darin Campus Editor 

FIRST PICKS OF THE COED BUM­PER CROP----Tomorrow the University of Notre Dame will reportedly guarantee in a written statement that any St. Mary's student enrolled in a Notre Dame major before Nov. 30, 1971, not offered by SMC may finish her major there and receive an 
N. D. diploma. 
This should cover all Business Ad­ministration, American Studies, I<~ngineering, Pre-Professional Studies, General Program, Architecture, and all modern languages (except Frnech and Spanishl. 
Presumably the release will also in­dicate N. D. students may get teaching certificates through the SMC education department. 
TRUSTEE CAHILL RESIGNS---­Yesterday William Cahill, SMC Board of Trustees vice-chairman, added his resignation to the growing list of trustees dissatisfied with the merger termination. 
"The students of SMC are being sold short," Cahill declared in Chicago. "I can't see any future for the girls there.,­
He indicated the termination of negotiations is based on "the sisters ... they do not wish to merge at all. They have 125 years of histroy and they think they can develop this. What bugs me is that the nuns are only worried about themselves and money, and not about the students at all." 
MOTHER OLIVETTE STILL 
HETREATING----The Observer last night 
interrrupted Mother Olivette Whelan's 
lSMC' Board of Trustee chairman) 30-day 
retreat in California from the merger 
problem at St. Mary's. Mother Olivette 
admitted she had heard "through the 
grape vine" <but did not specify whether it 
was composed of Calif. or Ind. grapes) 
that Rev. Neil McCluskey had resigned 
from the Board. She refused to comment 
on his move or his allegations that the 
merger is an "un" one. 
She denied that th'e College had recently 
incorporated, another of McCluskey's 
charges. But, she did admit that there is no 
further meeting of the two negotiation 
teams. 
The Trustee chairman also claimed she 
had not yet received N. D. Board of 
Trustee chariman Edmund Stepan's letter 
recapping the Feb. negotiation meeting 
she missed. 
Reportedly the letter also questionned 
"llw Primr Mover" of the Sisters of the 
f Ioly Cross on the Order's sincerity in 
negotiations. Sources claim Stepan sent 
his letter to Notre Dame to be forwarded to 
Mother Olivette several days ago. 
THE SCORE IS 2-1 ----United Press lnternational agreed substantively with the Obsl'rver scoop, published in Monday's paper. on the merger termination. In an article, released yesterday, UPI, who interviewed N. D. Bd. of Trustee Chair­man Stepan "on the record" quoted Stepan as being not too optimistic on the merger possibility. The release continued, that while Stepan said the talks are officially still on. he has not scheduled a second meeting of the negotiating teams. 
Dolores Liebeler, South Bend Tribune reporter, however quoted Sr. Verda Clare, SMC negotiating team member saying, "that the committee plans to adhere to the original agreement made early in February and negotiate over a three­month period." 
Sr. Verda Clare denied the Observer report and indicated unification negotiations are expected to continue. When tlw Observer and other media called the alleged "brains" behind the un­merger, she had contracted a sudden case of larengytis. 
MC' CLUSKEY AND CREW GET OFF SINKING SHIP SMC----(excerpts from Fr. 

Don Mooney 

McCluskey's letter of resignation to Mother Olivette Whelan, dated March 1, 1972). 
The Holy Cross Sisters were concerned that one kind of unification would result in the total disappearance of St. Mary's with its tradition, alumnai clubs, distinctive programs. presence of the Sisters, and so forth. Despite the solemn assurances to the contrary from Notre Dame authorities, some statem:>nts and actions on lower administration levels of the university consistently provided the grounds for this concern. 
"On the other hand, by insisting on jurisdiction over the housing of women, life in the residence halls, disposition of buildings, property, security and main­tenace and most striking of all---by stipulating structure and emphasis in degree programs, the Sisters created the impression that the College really in­tended to remain semi-autonomous with certain areas of the academic and non­
academic life reserved to some kind of shadowy authority representing St. Mary's or the Sisters of the Holy Cross. 
''Given the assumption that genuine unification was the common goal, this division of iurisdiction was an im­
possibility. Ail policies, programs, and procedures relating to every area within the university operation had to come through one central administration. More than any other factor, the refusal of the Sisters to accept the full implementation of unification was the stumbling block of the negotiations ... '' 
"I am leaving the Board primarily because during the last six months, there really has been no Board. Its authority has been preempted by the officers of the Congregation. All key decisions have been madt> in private by a small group of sisters without open discussion by the full Board. In l'ffl'ct. you have privately decided there is to bl' no merger with Notre Dame. One could perhaps find some justification for this position, if not for the way it was arrived at. But what one cannot possibly justify is that your true intentions have been kept from the Board, students, parents, faculty, alumane, and friends of the College most of whom are still laboring undt>t· the illusion that St. Mary's is Jll't•sently megotiating for merger. It is not." 

The Pranksters and The King 
The great SBP election was a nightmare for the conventional campus politicos, and I suppose you can count me as one. Herr Kersten's appeal is anti-poobah, anti­elitist. He has capitalized on the bitter feelings of students who feel they have been let down by an encumbering, selfish bunch of paper shufflers. And the students 
have been let down. Student government has become a reproducing virus of inac­tion that weights down an already lethargic campus. I direct this not just at the Barkett regime, but also at the people, including myself, who worked in those 
offices before him. A year ago I talked about the inadequecy of a stifling student bureaucracy. .. (But I think it is significant that the heir to the Naked 
Kahuna has had so much more success after a year of SG imootence.) 
lt is in this context that the Monarch's words are so seductive. A loosely ordered anarchy is what we had in mind for student government before being so rudely defeated last March. A main problem on this campus is that everyone, especially a student politico, takes himself too sl'riously. Maybe it was time for the 


students to tell the politicians to back off, and put their rhetoric back into the scope of simple human enjoyment. If the King could convince me that behind all that satire lays some type of political 
framework that can make this campus one quality point better, I'd sign up as a court jester. 
But I am un-convinced. The King's masses are a bit too totalitarian for my tastes. They are a bit too reminiscent of Freshman year football rallies, and panty raids. For some reason I had felt Notre Dame had transcended that type of adolescence after May, 1970. 
Possibly I am a bit too programmed into the old style of student politics. But when I think of any of the better aspects of four years at Notre Dame, I think of people like Richard Rossie, 'Dave Krashna, John Zimmerman and others, realizing that any of the better·qualities of student life here came about only after they banged heads with a stubborn, image obsessed University. It seems amazing to me that . 
the students are more than willing to throw away the work of all those people in return for a little pre-spring comedy. 
If Kersten is elected, and if Kersten fails to set up some type of program, the students will be losing more than $200,000 in activities fees. They most likely will be losing, by default the gains of the past and the potential of an aggressive SG for the future. Earlier this year Fr. Riehle told me he was amazed at how "quiet" the campus was. When the campus is "quiet" the administration feels a little more free 
to make student life fit into the Univer­sity's well cultivated image. The result is repression of student autonomy. <E.G. : Suspension for stealing a note book with no judicial appeal.) 
Clearly, the Administration would be more than happy to see the students return to the good old days of phone booth stuffing and student council popularity contests. It's so much more efficent for the good fathers to operate "in loco parentis". 
I'm not asking you to vote for anyone. Just weigh the alternatives-how much are you willing to risk on a prank. 

SMC Elections 
Elections will be held today, Thursday, 
•

rn each, hall from llarn to 6arn 
off-campus and day students 
vote in LeMans Hall 
THE OBSERVER

Pa e 6 
A word from Barkett-­reflectioDs on the run-off 
Dear Student Body: 

I have watched this year's Student Body Presidential cam­paign very dispassionately. Nobody got "my endorsement" and from the way the Observer and WSN D attacked me, I'm not sure anybody would have welcomed it. 
What happened these last few days did not surprise me. Eight "serious" candidates ran poor campaigns; one "joke" can­didate ran a beautiful one. Nearly all of the eight attacked my administration, talked of raising the activity fee, talked of a co­ed dorm, talked of student power, and a zillion other things. In fact, they talked themselves to death. 
I was so dbappointed in the eight and the campaigns they ran, that I nearly voted for Bob Kersten myself. I suspect that many students voted for Bob expressing a similar disappointment. 
I feel obliged, as it bears on tomorrow's run-off election, to make some comments on Student Government. Student Government is basically a service ard a "watchdog" organization. I can think of only a few ways it directly touches each student, for example, the South Bend in a Nutshell magazine and making $10,000.00 available for improvements in 17 halls. However, I can think of dozens of ways it indirectly touches each student. Hell, not even a section leader in a section does that. Whars worse, though, is that many of you think the same way . You are concerned about Student Government when you want something and at campaign time. A selfish student body? Self-interested is perhaps a better description. 
Maybe I deserve much of the blame for this attitude. It has become patently obvious to me that our efforts to communicate with you were not herculean enough. However, I don't think it would have made much difference. The largest crowd I t;ad in the twelve halls I spoke in was 20 people and just five showed up in Grace right after the parietal hours hassle. Yet I and many others went on working hours upon hours to improve our academic advisory system, security, the quality of rectors and resident assistants, the Student Center, hall facilities, and on and on and on. These things don't change in one administration, sometimes not even in two or three. When you are confronted with a $750,000.00 university deficit and the very difficult search for the most qualified administrativepersonnelyou don't change things instantly. Furthermore, though all these things affect you, that doesn't mean they touch you every day. What's most crucial is that they are all important and somebody -lots of people -has to do the work. 
With those remarks, let me say that tomorrow's election is terribly important to you. I'm not endorsing either Bob or Paul. Bob has a refreshing sense of humor and knows absolutely nothing about what he's getting into. Paul is very idealistic, has some great ideas, and knows the job, but he will become very frustrated because he can't change human nature and he hasn't emphasized enough the practical concerns of students to suit me. 
But I do want to point out to you very clearly that the year ahead is a serious one and whomever you elect will be faced with a time-consuming, demanding schedule on such topics as the reorganization of Student Affairs (Dean of Students, Infirmary, La Fortune Student Center, Director of Sturent Residence, all rectors and resident assistants, the Counseling Center, and many more) under a new vice-president, parietal hours, renovation of social facilities, off-campus, and most im­portantly, women at Notre Dame. Just keep in mind that these things must be dealt with and you will reflect in your vote who will be the representative you desire to deal with them. 
And keep in mind, too, that whomever you elect will be criticized next year at this time by candidates seeking office and by members of the media who will try to sway public opinion, 
·often for personal satisfaction, and''' Do I have to go on? It's been fun and frustration serving you this year but thanks to all for the help and understanding. 
Peace, John Barkett Student Body President 







JESUS 
RETREAT 
An evening of Mass, dinner, and 
prayer, Followed by a day of talks 
on what it means to be a Christian. 
From: 4:45pm Friday, March 3 
To: 9:00 pm Saturday, March 4 
Call 1507 (afternoons) 234-3529 {nights) 
St::"'nsored by True House 
Catholic Pentecostal Community 


Thursday, March 2, 1972 
ATTENTION PRE-LAW STUDENTS Notre Dame pre-law society presents 
Three Law Students (2 guys, 1 girl) speaking about their law experiences 
Friday March 3-7:00 pm 127 Nieuwland 

''LONG HAIR'' 
Strictly Caranaby St. The British Shag is The new limey shag here. If you have long (LONG HAIR) is the hair Continental's bloody sensation, as Artists can trim it for a desired, for the young 
bloody true Shag, as HARE SET with kitties desired, with or without only. kitties. 

Healthy hair is our business. 
HAIR STYUNG, LTD.~ SEll \'IN(; TilE N.D. COMMUNITY FOR OVER 4 YEARS 
Call ~59-7679 for APPOINTMENT t:l:!l E. MeKinley Ave., Mish. <next door to Normain l'harmacyl 
(Sp(•eial Student Hates Every Day) 
Thursday, March 2, 1972 THE OBSERVER 
Wildcats nip scrappy Irish 78-75 
by Vic Dorr him. The Wildcats were very 14:33left, but the Irish hit a cold effective in their pressure tac­spell after that. They did not
In their last appearance in the tics. and they forced ND into a score again until the 11:26 mark,Athletic and Convocation Center rash of costly first-half tur-and by that time Villanova's lead this year. Digger Phelps' ND 
novers. had grown to nine, 56-47.
basketball team almost pulled off When they did pick off a straytheir upset. 
pass, or gather in a loose ball ND came back to life with justThe Irish cagers battled the Villanova usually tried to fast under nine minutes left. A pair ofVillanova Wildcats right down to break. And with Chris Ford and unanswered field goals by Tomthe wire before bowing, 78-75, and Tom Inglesby on the scoring end O'Mara and one by Williethe ND squad played under come­of those breaks, the 'Cats Townsend made it 62-59, and thefrom-behind conditions for most threatened several times to run Irish stayed fairly close the restof the contest. 
the Irish right out of contention. of the way. Siemiontkowski hitNotre Dame enjoyed its last But the Irish, while they could two field goals to move Villanovalead of the ball game, a 7-6 never completely erase the into a 68-60 lead with 4:52 left, and spread, at the 16:43 mark of the Villanova lead, would never let ND spent the rest of the gamefirst half, and was last tied with the 'Cats put the game out of trying to close the gap.
the Wildcats at 15 all at 12:02 of reach. The Irish defensethe same period. 
alternating the man-to-man with Notre Dame closed to within
After that, it was all uphill. 
a 1-3-1 zone, forced the visitors three points three times within
Villanova threatened to pull into a number of turnovers the last minute of play, but each away late in the half, when back­themselves, and managed to stay time Villanova was able to scoreto-hack field goals by 6-7 Larry even with Villanova on the in return. Chris Ford's layin off aMoody and 6-6 Hank Siemion­
boards. court-length bomb at 0:15 gavetkowski gave the 'Cats a 29-20 
Both teams pulled in 46 Villanova a 78-73 lead and sealed lead. But two free throws and a rebounds for the game. Moody NO's fate. Don Silinski's bucketfield goal by ND's Don Silinski led the Wildcats with 14, and at 0:07 finished the scoring.
pulled the Irish back to within Gary Novak ( 12l and Don Silinskithree, at 31-28. 
Villanova, who yesterday
<11 l paced the Irish.
Notre Dame could come no 
received an at-large bid to the
Notre Dame made its mostcloser than three during the first 
NCAA tournament, advanced
serious challenge of the gameperiod, and Willie Townsend's 
their record to 19-6 with the win.
with 16:06 left in the secondbasket at the first-half buzzer cut 
The loss was the nineteenth in 25
period. A fielder by Novak pulled Villanova's lead to 37-32 at in­
starts for the Irish, who will close 
the Irish to within three, 46-43,termission. 
their season Saturday evening
and then the ND press forced the And the entire ball game was to against Dayton. 
Wildcats into a hurried inbounds follow the pattern set in the first pass. John Egart grabbed the Tom O'Mara led the Irish in T~nn O'Mara, shown here against Western Michigan, was Notre
half. Four times during the game Danll''s top scorer last night, netting 29 points as the Irish dropped a
loose ball and fed Tom O'Mara
the Wildcats built up sizeable scoring with 29 points. Don iX-i5 dt>cision to tourney-bound Villanova at the ACC.
under the basket. O'Mara scored
leads over the ND team, and four Silinski had 19, Gary Novak 14,
to cut the Villanova spread to and Willie Townsend 10 for ND. The game was. the last home ready to forget the 1971-72 season.
times the Irish battled back to 
one. Ford led the Wildcats with 31, appearance for ND seniors John "We've still got another game towithin striking distance. But the Chris Ford's three-point play while Siemiontkowski had 24 and Egart and Tom McGraw, but go." he said, "and we'll start toIrish could never mount enough 
Tom Ingles by 10. Coach Digger Phelps was not worry about next year on Octoberof a rally to overtake the 'Cats. sent the Wildcats back into a 15th."
Villanova did most of its four-point lead, but Willie damage by turning two of Digger Townsend hit a short-range goal Phelps' favorite weapons--the to cut it to two again at 49-47. 
Leprechauns dump TIJinois Police 
press and the fast break--against Townsend's score came with by Stan Urankar from the top of the key, and was defense, while TomVarga was awarded a basket on a able to shift easily from forward
An avid follower of the Notre

''Zipper'' Thompson 
goaltending call to put the to guard as needed. The entire
Dame freshman baskteball team 
Leprechauns on top to stay. squad, along with coach
might have noticed a few 
The victory closed the McLaughlin and assistants Artie
familiar faces upon entering the 
Leprechauns' season with 12 wins Stars and Gary Trick, are to beleads State sextet ACC last night. In fact, one .noisy 
against just five defeats. Rather complemented on a very suc­
fan shouted, "Hey, it's the 
than the prep squad approach cessful season..
Chicago Hustlers." 
used towards the frosh by Johnny
When Don Thompson came to 
Indeed. Larry Schulich, Chuck Dee, this year's club was run 
Hockey Stats
Michigan State University four Zagozdon, and Bill Gavin had all independent of the varsity. "Our years ago, he brought along the appeared at Notre Dame only 17 whole concept is to make the
reputation of a fierce competitor, days ago when the Leprechauns Pen· 
players sound fundamentally," Pla\·er Gms G A Pis. Min.
tireless skater and big-time ran the Hustlers right out of town, 
noted McLaughlin. "We want to :'>oble.c . :18 16 36 52 16-32 scorer. 113-67. However, last night was a Regan.c . . . . . .. 28 27 20 47 ~'9-58
adjust them to our system of 
Williams. w ..... 27 20 26 46 17·34
The'so·<:alled "book" summed different story, as Notre Dame 
basketball." Bumbacco. w .. 30 21 21 42 4-8 
up "Zippy" perfectly. He ranks twice had to battle back from six­Campbell. w ....30 21 14-28
"It was a very coachable II 32 
at the top in desire and point deficits before downing the Green. d ....30 5 17 22 2J.42
team." McLaughlin added. .....30 3 21
:'>yrop. d 18 21·42
dedication. He was an All-Illinois Police Federation, 89-74. 
"Dwight came on real well after DeLorenzi. w.... 29 9 12 21 1!-16
American and All-WCHA "It's such a long season, his inJury <16.3 ppg in only 13 Keatmg. w . . . .. 15 8 9 17 2-4 selection last year, and recently Conroy. c ...... .tl 6 9 15 
1·2there's no tournament to get up contests), and all the kids, even Schafer. c ....... 30 6 7 13 11·22
passed former Spartan Tom 
for, and it's just tough to get the walk-ons, had great at­Steinborn. d .....29 I II 12 6-12 
Mikkola as the most prolific Curry. d. .. .... :18 I 10 II 32·64
ready for every game," com­titudes." 
Israelson.w ...30 4 2 6 5-10
scorer in State history. 
mented Irish coach Frank Brokaw ended the season with Lindsey. c ......10 I 3 4 0.0"I remember the first time I McLaughlin after the game. 481 points and a 28.3 average, in Larson. d. . .. 30 0 2 2 11·22 
saw 'Zip' play," recalled Coach Bonk. c.. .23 0 I t 1·2
"The kids were just a little flat in addition to grabbing 138 
Tomasoni. g. .21 0 I I 0.0
Amo Bessone. "His team lost, 
the early going." rebounds. The 6-8 Crotty came on Tardani. w . . . .II I 0 I 1·2
but I knew Michigan State had a Maison. w . 4 0 0 0 0.0
strong near the season's end, and 
With Schulich, resemblant of a Howe. w . 4 0 0 0 !HI
future star." 
Marine drill instructor, canning finished with a 14.3 ppg total, and M. Bonk. d . 3 0 0 0 0.0
All of Thompson's amazing Bench 1·2
pulled down 10.8 caroms a
his first six shots, all from 15 feet con­
records take on even greater :-lotre Dame. . . . . 30 145 232 377 209·418.
test. Dependable Bedford Bruno
or better, and 6-6 leaper Steve Opponents ...... 30 138 197 335 189·397significance when one takes into 
accounted for 12 points a game Po\\-er Play Goals-Notre Dame 37 ol
Jones sweeping the boards, the
account his size -5-5, 165 pounds. 116 (32 per cent): Opponents 32 of 147
and was often the stalwart on
IPF pulled away to a 26-18 lead
Many hockey experts, including (:!'! per cent). 
before McLaughlin called time
professional scouts, label "lack 
.-·------------~------------------------~

out midway through the first half. 
of size" as a major disadvantage when recruiting today. The Leprechauns evidently got Not Thompson. "When you're the message, as they outscored 
small." he says, "you can pick the Police, 14-1, over a four and a your spots. You can get through half minute span, and finished a little easier. Maybe some the half with a healthy 40-33 teams give the little guy some advantage. Leader of the barrage more room near the net." of buckets was superstar Gary And Thompson, a native of "Zip" Thompson: Michigan Brokaw, with four jumpers, a 
Toronto where his father is a State's ·s-5 AU-American free throw, and an unbelievable hockey arena manager, does a lot "The WCHA has been a good flying layup over Jones' out­of his scoring from in close. 'I training ground for me, The big stretched arm. 
The mid-game rest boosted the 
don't think I have a great shot," thing is the skating-you can get a 
he says. "Every player has a few lot in this league. I want the Police attack. Jones threw in a 20 footer and blocked three shots
strong points and mine are play­opportunity to play prof~ssional. 
Gavin scored two layups on long
making and carrying the puck. This is what I've always dreamed "But. you can beat any goalie about." bombs, and Jim Reuter stole a from close in if you can put the Bessomi rates his chances pair of passes and converted 
them into breakaway buckets. By
puck in the right spot." good. "He's one of the top college 
What's next for Thompson, players anywhere," explains th~ time, the smoke cleared, the Insh were down, 49-48, and
after he completes his senior Amo. "He rates in the top five in 
McLaughlin again talked to his
season? modern hockey history here at 
charges, this time with 15:27 to
"I hope to play pro hockey," State. and his ability and desire says "Zip", a family nickname, make up for lack of size. He's play. 
ND then took charge again, as
as both his father and younger plenty rugged, and can take care 
brother go by it, too. of himself." Tom Varga converted a jumper 



OBSERVER. 
SPORTS 
Irish vs. s·partans 
The Fanatics will be in Sec. 6 this weekend -will you? 
.. 
Tickets $1, on sale at Gate 10, ACC 
• 
Thursday, March 2, 1972
Page 8 THE OBSERVER Dr. Thomas Werge 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
NOTICES




Multiversity is doomed 
f'rivate Party Friday Night. Girls 
~ t F' t'

by "r erran 1 Defining a multiversity as a "creature of pluralism and diversity", English professor Dr. Thomas Werge spoke to faculty and students Monday night. The main thrust of his lecture entitled "God and Man at Notre Dame" concerned itself in showing how a university like Notre Dame will survive in contrast to the multiversity which has, according to Werge, "no coherent center and no purpose" and is consequently bound to failure. This absence of a unifying center, said Werge, leads to two views: <1l "learning is important for its own sake as though learning and salvation were synonymous," and (2) the multiversity is a "vast machine...stamping out im­mediately applicable solutions for every variety of human problem." Praising the student movement in Berkely as a "crying out of the anonymity of an education on a mass scale," Dr. Werge said that Notre Dame is a welcome prospect of spirit in a world of indifference. Dr. Werge then quoted Maria Gallagher's February 3rd article on faith at Notre Dame in order to show that the "disenchantment and questioning" of the ideal versus the real at Notre Dame is not only "commendable" but "vital to Notre Dame's in­tegrity." Citing many literary and philosophical figures throughout his talk, Dr. Werge said that the "intellectual journey has a destination and the destination should be as important as the 
Endorsements ....Seymour 

We the undersigned endorse Jean Seymour and Susan Welte for the positions of SBP and SBVP. From their work this year we feel them most qualified to represent SMC. 
Missy Unoerman, Ex-SBVP Jean Gorman, Ex-SBVP Jane Sheehy, Co-ed Com­missioner Sue Dorn, McCandless Hall President Barb McKiernan, Regina President Margie Rurak, LeMans President Teeta Bliley, Senior Class President Maureen Walsh, Student Assembly Greta Anderson, Student Assembly Mary Kay Tobin, Student Assembly 
....Kersten 

Speaking for the Washington­Maryland-Virginia Club, President Brian Mastro and Vice­President Bill Fenton endorsed Bob Kersten for Student Body President last night. 
"We feel that Kersten will be able to restructure the Govern­ment and the Student Union so they can function with an eye for the students rather than them­selves," Mastro said. Fur­thermore, he believes that geographic clubs have been pushed aside by the Government and especially by the Student Union. 
·'With Kersten" Mastro con­tinued, "the emphasis will be in 
the students' interests in all cases rather than appeasmg those who are in influential positions. Now the students will be the main 
... interest and will benefit the most." 
journey." 
· .
That which distinguishes Notre Dame as a university from, for example, University of California campus as a multiversity is our relation with God. This religious relation with God is seen in the truth "not that we have sought and found God, but that he has sought and found us," said Dr. Werge. 
Those in the multiversity, according to the professor, never ask what is true but concern themselves "in the contemporary 
event,  the  newest  discovery."  
Notre  Dame's  "continuity  of  
man's  experience  and  

"tradition" distinguish the university from the multiversity said Dr. Werge. This continuity coupled with an humility of acknowledgement of man's concerns and values not only separates Notre Dame as a 
· ·t f It· · 

umvers1 y rom a mu Iversity, but as a community also, added Dr. Werge. 
The moral commitment is evident in "students, faculty, and administration," said Dr. Werge. "An awareness of our need for grace and faith is one of the reasons why we are here and not at the multiversity,"asserted Dr. Werge. 
Only in retrospect do we realize our need for faith in seeking the final understanding, concluded Dr. Werge, and that is our hope that we will be shown "the Lord's light in his faith and un­derstanding." 
The Orestes Brownson Society sponsored the talk and dinner in the faculty dining section of the South Dining Hall. 
Engineering 7 -9 -11. 

CIVIL ENGINEERS Join AC.

Ha~nlet 
TION, The Peace CorpsVista team, and use your talents to help
A PLANNED HAPPENING 
others help themselves. See ACT ION recruiters at the Library Feb. 28 March 3. Or phone 283·
March 3, 4 at 8:30pm 
6255. 

March 5 at 7:30pm 
ARCHITECTS, PLANNERS· Get yenr's of experience in a short time with ACTION (Peace Corps­V isla). Put your skill to use 11elping others. See ACT ION 
Little Theatre, Moreau, St. Mary's 
Tickets $1, free for subscribers 
recruiters in the Library this week. Or phone 283-6255.
Information at 284-4141 
MBA'S LAW MAJORS-ACTION, The Peace Corps-Vista agency needs your skill to help others develop theirs. See AACT ION 
recruiters at the Library Feb. 28­March 3. Or phone 283-6255. 

5.uNDA v MARCH 5th
8.00 P.M. 
HEY! Edge City, St. Mary's Coffeehouse LIVES. Every 
Sunday night, 8-12. Best local talent. good coffee. Just a quarter. 
IN PERSON 



ANDY 
CHIMES accepting poetry, fic­tion, essays, graphics. Submit to 
D. Kerr 533 McCandless, R. Campell 813 Grace, T. Knoles-P. Smith 334 Dillon. 
WILLIAMS· 

HENRY 
The best way to and from Chicago is on the Greyhound --non -stop from Campus. Call Tom Boyer,

MANCINI 
6984, for information. 

Need it typed tonite? We will do typing AT ANY TIME for
TICitels on salt at 

rPasonable prices. Call ABC
Ticket NOTRE DAME 
Enterprises at 8256 (CHIP) or 6963
Prices: A. C. C. 
(MIKE)

Bluc*en . __ $3.110 111011. . Sat. 9-5 
St. Joe Bank 

Interested in living in Grace next
Lower lr111. $&.50 

and Branches 
fall. Call RICH 1762.

Loce, and ___ $7.50 First Bank ..lffice •.., 
Student Union Buses to O'Hare


Ilia Floor 
Robertson's 

March 22. ND to O'Hare 1:30pm.
•d Plllftr•s$7.50 

Elkhart Truth 

April 4 O'Hare to ND 8 pm. Tickets onsale at the lsi Bank Campus travel office $5 one-way. All Sales Final. 
NASSAU TRIP MARCH 24-31. 8


sports parachuting-skydiving 
days and 7 nights with quad ac­com. Air fare and Hotel may be Purchased Seperately. Limited number of seats available. Tickets on Sale at Student Union Ticket Office. $202 inclusive. Questions, Call: 7757. 
A lot of SCHLITZ plus the in­famous CHAPPED LIPS. FRIDAY NIGHT PARTY--2nd floor of the ROMA. 
FOR SALE 

Golf cart for sale or rent. Call JIM 8906. 
For Sale: Parts and accessories for recently acquired '69 Mach I. Call HAIRY 234-4259. 
MGB '66 · Hard & Soft top, ex­cellent engine. 234-2376. 
For Sale: 1953 purple bus. $75 or best offer by Wednesday, March 
8. Call Crew Club c-o Steve Buccini 1076. 
For Sale: 1956 Oldsmobile Holiday. Call 8098, DAN.
For those of you who missed 
FOR RENT

the first ND-SMC Parachute classes Furnished 2 Bedroom house for rent in Roseland. Call 272-6086, niter 5 pm.
Hurrah! We are now starting our 
second set of classes. For more information .phone S.B. 291-6565 
WANTED 
POETRY WANTED for An­thology. Include stamped en­velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angles, California 90021. 
Ride needed to Dayton and back March 3. Call CHRIS 8659. 
Need ride to Peoria (or within hour radius) Mar. 3 . 4374. 
Need ride to Cincinnati or Dayton. Will pay expenses. 6880. 
Sociology Major needs couples living together, not married, to answer questionnaire. Please call 234 1926. 
Need ride to Cincinnati or Dayton area March 3. Call 4788 or 4081. 
Two girls need ride to Michigan State · Friday, March 3rd. Call BETTY 4341, KATHY 4881. 
Need Ride To Detroit Fri. Mar. 3. Call PAUL 8428. 
2 guys desperately need ride to Milwaukee this Friday, Mar. 3. Can leave anytime after 12 noon. Call LARRY or PAUL 8276. 
NEED TOW NON-BLEACHER SEAT TICKETS TO MANCINI CONCERT. 3663. 
2 voluptuous blondes need Lauderdale housing March 22 ... onward? Ca II 4292 or 4368. 
Ride to Dayton for Friday. 8840 or 8852. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: one addressed envelope containing money and negatives. Somewhere near Washington Hall, last Thursday evening. Just drop it in the mail. because the address is right. Thanks. 
Lost: l PRINCIPLES OF MANAGEMENT BOOK IN O'SHAG HALL. CALL BOB 8406. 
Lost: Blue and gold knit scarf. Call TOM 1437. Reward. 
Lost Aluminum film cannister containing 2 rolls of film . very important! Call 1466 or 1465. 
PERSONALS 
Barb, Betsy, Cathy and Von, To the gracious gourmets with the sunshine smiles Muchas Gracias 
For the delightful, qastronomical Celebration of life. 
Tim, Dave, Dave, Mike, Jack, Jason, and the Old Man. 
COWBOY HERO AND SIDEKICK (AND SPARKY THE HORSE) DESIRE PRESENCE OF AT· TRACTIVE ITALIAN OB· SERVER GIRL AT FRI. NITE ROUNDUP. CALL 3286 AND ASK FOR JOHN WAYNE. P.S. HAPPY BIRTHDAY. 
Kathie Zzzzz Happy Birthday and PLEASANT DREAMS... 
Your roomie 
Thanks all tor Friday's surprise, scotch, strawberries and destruction. 
Paul 
Secret Admirerer (Admirer l: This is fun but expensive. Let's meet. 
Jackie, Roses are red, Violets are blue, Nobody can giggle Exactly like you. A compliment you want, A compliment you'll get, You're one of the nicest girls I've ever met. (And you have a better bod than my roomate too.) Jimi 
Lost Little Girl: Found your wagon, Where were you? Teaman 
Words 1da 2da 3da 4da 5da l-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95. 

Only. Transportation Provided. Cnll 232-9625. 
PMis and Accessories for Im­ported Cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 2727187. 
DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and Within Europe. Leave anytime from NY Chicago. Flight Center 227 North Randall, Madison, WI 53705. ( (608) 263-3131. 
New 7th & 9th grade classical­christian school needs English, Latin, Math and Science teachers. 
Since salaries will be small the first year, we're looking for qraduate students (preferably with Masters) to work part-time while at Notre Dame. Send vita, references, etc. to Magdalen School, P.0. Box 1225, South Bend, 46624. 
WILD FLICK. Don't miss cnmpus thriller of year. WAIT UNTIL DARK. Sponsored by Youngstown Club. Sat. Mar. 4th 








