On The Inside 
The Kennedy visit: hectic . . . page 3 
John Mayall hits South Bend . . . page 5 

Vol. VII No. 22 

Badin Rector concerned 

Priorities committee hears no coed voices 
by Mike O'Hare Observer Staff Reporter 

The absence of women and Student Af­fairs representatives to the Committee on University Priorities had prompted Badin Hall Rector Miss Kathleen Cekanski to express her concern to University Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell. 
In a letter sent to Fr. Burtchaell, Miss Cekanski stated, "I question the notable absence of anyone from the Student Mfairs Office and anyone representing the new voices of Notre Dame ...the coeds." The letter questioned the insight any of the present members on the priorities com­mittee would have on the future of student life and coeducation at Notre Dame, if none of their backgrounds reflect such expertise. 
Miss Cekanski's letter noted that she has been impressed with the forward looking views and plans set forth by Dr. Phillip Faccenda and Fr. James Flanigan of the Student Affairs Office and Fr. William Toohey, Campus Ministry Director. It continued to state that "coecucation is here at Notre Dame and should not be inad­vertently overlooked when setting priorities." While Miss Cekanski didn't feel that her letter would alter the composition of the current committee, she hoped it might have some impact on future committee selection. 
Miss Joanne Szafrank rector of Walsh llall. echoed Miss Cekanski's concern over the make-up of the committee on priorities. "If the deep twofold concern with academics and student life is something unique to Notre Dame, why wasn't this concern with student life represented on the committee," questioned Miss Szafran. 
Concerning the absence of women on the committee. she feels that there are many women in the university qualified to sit on such a group, and cited Sr. John Miriam Jones, Assistant to the Provost, as such a woman. 
St. John Miriam, while disappointed at the lack of female and student life represen­tatives, believes that the people who selected the committee were sincere and 
·that "there was no overt effort to exclude women." She expressed hope that it would not be too late to add a woman to the com­mittee and correct this "oversight." 
Sr. Miriam believes that the reaction over the absence of women and Student Mfairs representatives on the committee should "serve as a gentle reminder that we should have some voice on future priorities." She feels it would help to have a person present to voice the views of coeducation and student life. 
The assistant to the Provost is optimistic that the committee on priorities "will be anxious to lend an ear to our views. I assume the good will of the people on the committee and believe that coeducation will be a high priority." 
Although sorry that there are no women on the committee, Mrs. Sue Roberts, educational consultant, believes that coeducation is so visible that "the com­mittee will bend over backwards to allow our viewpoint to be heard." 
She doesn't think that it will be a closed committee,but will "seek out every aspect of the University community" and allow for input from these various segments. Mrs. Roberts mentioned the idea of creating satellite committees to provide the necessary expertise and input into the central committee. And despite the lack of women, she remains optimistic about the future of the committee. 




The nation watches as... 
Notre Dame bests Michigan State 16-0 Saturday afternoon. 
see page 8 for story 
Kissinger continues 
private peace talks 
By Bernard Gwertzman 
<C> New York Times 
Washington, Oct. !!--Presidential foreign policy adviser Henry A. Kissinger held another private meeting in Paris today with North Vietnam's top negotiators. The White House, in making the announcement, left open the possibility that they might meet again tomorrow. 
As usual, no substantive details on the session were made public, either here or in Paris. This was Kissinger's 19th such trip to the French capital since August, 1969, when he began the series of private Vietnam negotiations. 
It followed by less than two weeks his meetings on Sept. 26 and 27 with the same two men, Le Due Tho, the Hanoi Politburo member charged with Vietnam negotiations, and Xuan Thuy, Hanoi's regular chief delegate to the Paris talks. 
A new factor today was the presence for the first time on the American side of Maj. Gen. Alexander M. Haig, Jr., who serves as Kissinger's deputy, and who held talks last week in Saigon with President Nguyen Van Thieu of South Vietnam. No reason for Haig's attendance at the talks was given by Ronald L. Ziegler, the White House press secretary, who made the announcement of the session this morning. 
But another White House aide suggested that because Haig had an up-to-date understanding of Thieu's views, he would be of help to Kissinger if the talks, as expected, dealt with a possible political settlement in Saigon. 
President Nixon, in his most recent Vietnam comments at a news conference three days ago, said that "The negotiations are in a sensitive stage." 
From what has been said publicly, a settlement has been blocked largely because of serious disagreements over what kind of government might emerge in Saigon.. 
Nixon said at his news conference that the settlement "will come just as soon as we can possibly get a settlement which is right-right for the South Vietnamese, the North Viet­namese, and for us, one that will have in mind our goals of preventing the imposition by force of a communist gover­nment in South Vietnam and, of course, a goal that is par­ticularly close to our hearts, in a humanitarian sense, the return of our prisoners of war." 
In their most recent public proposals, the North Viet­namese and the Vietcong have insisted that their proposal for an interim, tripartite government would not impose com­munist rule on South Vietanm, but would also prevent con­tinued Pro-American rule. 
Under that three-pronged government, Thieu would resign and a coalition, made up of Vietcong, Saigon officials and neutralists would take over power, write a new constitution, and hold new elections for a permanent government. 
Publicly the United States has rejected the communist proposal as a smokescreen for a Vietcong takeover, and Thieu last night, in a national broadcast, called the proposal "a wicked design" in which the communists, have'failed to win militarily, were seeking to take over politically. 
the observer Monday, October 9, 1972
2 

warld briefs 
<cl 1972 New York Times 

Saigon--As fighting between government troops and communist guerillas continued within ten miles of Saigon Sunday, military spokesman said South Vietnamese forces had failed to drive the in­filtrators from the three hamlets they have controlled all weekend. Field reports said the fighting was not on a large scale, but thousands of civilians fled the combat area east of route 13 in search of safety. Meanwhile, one American plane and its two-man crew were reported lost as United States bombing continued at a high level over the weekend. 
Washington--Henry A. Kissinger had another meeting with North Vietnam's chief negotiators in Paris, but no important details of the sessionweremade public. It was Kissinger's 19th such visit to Paris since the presidential foreign policy adviser began his series of private negotiations in 1969. A new element in the latest meeting was the presence of Major General Alexander M Haig Jr., Kissinger's deputy, who met recently with South Vietnamese president Nguyen Van Theiu. 
Washington--A senate subcommittee investigating the extent of civilian damage caused by American bombing of North Vietnam has been told by a senior military officer that field reports of so-{!alled collateral damage are not sent to the Pentagon. In secret testimony released to the New York Times, Major General John W. Pauly told a subcommittee headed by Sen Edward M. Kennedy that "lucrative targets are often rejected" if examination shows that civilian damage would be substantial. 
an campu• taday~ 
3:30 ·· lecture, leonard silk, future of american capitalism, libraryauditorium 
9:00am ·5:00pm --information, peace.corps, vista, memorial library 
7:00 pm -· meeting, persons in. terested in british isles trip between semesters, 348 made leva 
7:30 pm ·-duplicate bridge, students and faculty, Iafortune rathskellar 
8:00pm --meeting, celtic society, Ia fortune, internaitona I room 
at nd-•mc: 




Civilian losses unreported I 
(cl 1!172 New York Times 

Washington, Oct. K--A senior military officer has testified in secret before a Senate panel that the Pentagon and the Ad­ministration are not "necessarily" informed in specific reports of civilian damage and casulaties resulting from United States air strikes in North Vietnam. 
Maj. Gen. John W. Pauly, Vice Director for Operations of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, told the Senate subcommittee on refugees in executive session on Sept. 28, that although United States air com­manders in Vietnam conduct field "critiques" on the results of the raids, these studies are not sent to Washington. 
The transcript of the executive session hearings, with security deletions imposed by the Defense D<'partment, was made available to the New York Times today by the subcommittee, which is headed by Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D­Mass. The hearings were called in
r 
an effort to determine the estent of 
r 
civilian damage in North Vietnamr stemming from American raids on 
~ 
military targets there. Using a Pentagon term of 
r 
' "collateral damage" to describe 
t
, 
hits on civilian targets, Pauly said that "our policy has been r established that only military
I 
targets will be struck, and that
I
, 
civilian casualties be minimized." "Lucrative targets are often
, 
rejected if, as a result of 
r examination, we found that the ,r collateral damage would be substantial," he said. r Heconnaissance is put in to 
identify what damage has been done to the target, and to identify, where possible, any collateral damage that has been done." 
,r ~ 
,r 
"The critiques are done by the commanders and the crews alike with the idea of refining not only our capability of taking out the targets we are after, but likewise to minimize any possible collateral damage," he said. 
But under questioning by Kennedy, the general said that "we do not get distribution on the actual critiques. They do not come to our level. It is handled out in the field and the type reports that are kept, I am not sure of at this time." 
"We get regular reports in the system back here-the report of the strike and then the day after, a resume of the stri,e," Pauly testified. 
"WThey do not necessarily in all cases contain any indication of collateral damage," he said. "In one case that I will point out, we did find in those reports that were identified, mention of collateral damage, the crews pulled off as they released because a SAM <surface-to-air missle) had been detected; it was an accident and that was identified. But the regular critiques are done at unit level." 
Asked by Kennedy whether reports on "collateral damage" were submitted to the "top level" in Washington Pauly replied: "No, sir, not as a specific report." 
In a comment on Pauly's testimony, Kennedy said today that "it is apparent from the record that at the highest levels of our government-where the 
The Observer Is publiShed dally during the college semester ex. -cept vacations by the students of i the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for sa per semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 
46556. 
~ 
"Johnny Got
~ 
His Gun'' 
Dalton Trumbo's classic 
brought to the screen , October 10, 11 
I 
Engineering Aud. 
I 
r r 
,r 

8 & 10 p.m $1.00 
decisions for the massive bombing and shelling of North Vietnam are made-there is no regular procedure for observing and monitoring the damage being done to civilian populated areas." 
"Spokesmen fot the Ad­ministration can talk with great precision about the number of bridges and roads and supply depots knocked out-but the damage done to schools and hospitals and housing and cibilian installations generally is 
(continued on page 7) 
Cinema '73 ~ards stolen 
50 Cinema '73 cards were taken from Pandora's Bookstore. The ticket numbers were 202-252. Anyone with information on these cards please call the Student Union Office 7757. These cards willnot be honored. 

For rugged wear 

NOTRE DAME-ST. MARYS THEAlRE 
presents 

THE LION IN WINTER 
James Goldman's witty, intelligent comedy. O'Laughlin Auditorium St. Mary's Campus October6, 7,12,13,14at8:30p.m. Students $1.50 Phone Reservations 284-4176 (Season subscriptions stilt available -5 plays $6.50) 

LAST DAY TO ORDER SMC 1973 YEARBOOK 
If you have not yet been contacted and want to buy one, 
then call 4722 or 4551 
and place your order today! 
MUSTANG KNITS IN BRUSHED CORDUROY 
All the style and great looks of brushed corduroy in 100 per cent Dacron polyester knit. The soft plush fabric is fashinoed with wide beltloops, a rear flap pockets and flare legs. Complete wash and wear, no shrinkage. In Burgundy, Blue, Tan or Brown. 
$15 

We can fill your need for university-styled, up-to-minute apparel. .. slacks, jeans, sweaters, shoes, belts, shirts, jackets, suits, sportcoats, outcoats, etc ... we have it in the style and price you're looking for. 
Pay Next Year 
Pay one. third in January, one­third in February, one-third in March. No service or carrying charges added. 

ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
' ~ 
r 
~ 
:Kennedyvisit hectic andproductive 
by Jerry Lutkus 
Observer News Editor 
Early press releases claimed that Senator Edward Kennedy would spend "a jam-packed" four hours in the Third Congressional District of Indiana. And they weren't kidding. 
The key word of the Kennedy visit had to be "packed." 
Kennedy arrived Thursday night at the Elkhart airport-much to the consternation of Observer reporters and ND-SMC s'tudents for McGovern. The McGovern organization informed us late Thursday that Kennedy would be arriving at the South Bend airport. Needless to say, the small crowd that formed at the South Bend airport was thwarted. 
breakfast at 7:45 
Kennedy and John Brademas, the 
Third District Congressman who 
toured with Kennedy rose early 
enough on Friday to attend the 
fund raising breakfast at 7:45 at 
the Indiana Club in South Bend. 
The breakfast was mobbed and 
the Senator's departure was late. 
He went directly to the studios of 
WNDU where a 30 minute cam­
paign program was taped. It was 
billed as a conversation between 
clearance.  All  staff  personnel  
wore  red  tags  indicating  their  
clearance.  They  informed  the  

Senator Kennedy and 
Congressman Brademas. In­
cluded in the program were 12 
students from the ND-SMC 
campus. 
The students were ushered into 
the studio 15 minutes before 
Kennedy and Brademas arrived. 
All of them had received security 
clearance earlier in the week and 
as they entered the studio ID's 
were required. 
security precautions As they sat waiting for Kennedy to arrive, the security became noticably tighter. Kennedy is equipped with a corps of Secret Service men for his protection. The Secret Service had the 
. C .

ACademJC OUDCil reasoned, he smiled that Kennedy 
to discuss revision of faculty manual 
The Academic Council will meet in a closed session today at 4:00 pm in rooms 102 and 104 in the Center for Continuing Education. The Council which is composed of 26 members of the administration, 26 faculty members and seven students, is the governing academic body of the university. 
At the meeting, a new Steering Committee is expected to be elected. The major undertaking will be the revision of the faculty manual with today's meeting devoted to the procedure for this revision. The manual, which hasn't been revised since 1966, contains the bylaws of the administrative and academic structure of the university. The purpose of the academic council is to determi'le all academic policies of the university. 
Monday, October 9, 1972 the observer 
3 


were phenomenal. Kennedy to them was John, Robert, and Ted all wrapped into one. 
Kennedy was a different man then he was a few short minutes earlier. He thumped his podium, he hollered, he raged, he built up the crowd's emotions. He slashed out at Nixon and the Republicans, all the time ignoring his 5----opage prepared text. 
Kennedy mobbed The speech was short, shortel' than had been intended, but he was 
late. Its completion met with another huge cheer and he made his way for the exit only to be closed in by the crowd. He was 
forced to go backstage at Stepan to avoid the pushingcrowd, but when he again tried to leave he was mobbed. 
Finally, the entourage made it into cars and headed east for Elkhart's airport. From Elkhart, Kennedy flew to Fort Wayne, Muncie, and Indianapolis making 
Observer lnsir:Jhl 
WNDU building more or less cordoned off. Admittance was given only to those with security 
students that any move toward Kennedy would be stopped. It was a different story though if Kennedy offered the initiative and made a move toward anyone. 
When he finally arrived in the studio, the Kennedy magic just exploded. He, along with Brademas, addressed all the students, shaking hands and speaking with each. WNDU staff members flashed pictures of the Massachusetts Senator and some 
asked for autographs. When he finally settled into his seat on the set, Kennedy appeared nervous. He fidgeted in his seat and played with his microphone. But when the cameras began to roll. the Senator turned on the Kennedy charm. He flamed, he 
smile. 

After the show was taped, he shot two endorsement com­mercials, one for Floyd Fithian, Democratic candidate from the 





Carberry 
Dr. James J. Carberry, professor of chemical engineering at the University of Notre Dame, has been appointed to the Working Committee on Chemical Catalysis. 
The group of seven United States 
scientists was organized recently 
as a consequence of President 
Richard M. Nixon's trip to 
Moscow, and his commitment to 
establish a program of cooperative 
scientific exchange between the 
U.S.S.R. and the U.S.A. The U.S. scientists will meet at regualr intervals with Soviet scientists. 
Carberry has also been elected to the Yale Alumni Board, now 
Museum Without Walls 
"Le Corbusier" "The Greek Temple" 
Monday, Oct. 9 Engineering Aud. 8 &1 0 p.m. $1 .50 
campaign stops' in each. 
Second District, and the other for It was a dynamic day at Notre 

Brademas. (He had to shoot each 

Dame. One of the sons of one of twice because of on-camera Notre Dame's favorite families goofs.) returned to the Dome. Kennedy's on to Stepan father Joseph was at one time Trustee of the University and his
The Secret Service then rushed brothers Jack and Robert servedhim out of the studio into the lobby on Notre Dame advisory councils. 

where he was detained by picture Now Ted came to Notre Dame.

shooting and autographing. The preparations began early 

exit route was through the back, doors of WNDU into the waiting1 The preparation for the visit car that took him to Stepan. · 
started days in advance­
Kennedy appeared on stage 

particularly on the press end. All almost immediately after he reporters who would be in the 
arrived at Stepan. As he walked vicinity of Kennedy must have onstage, the ovation was thun­
security clearances. They turned in to the Secret Service-their name, date of birth, and Social Security numbers. Once cleared, their names were placed on a list to gain them entrance into all the ac­tivities. 
Brademas headquarters in town handled all the press passes for the area. Originally they offered a single pass to the Observer, but after an afternoon of haggling, a second one for a photographer was obtained. Just an example of how tight the security really was. 
! ht> came. he saw ... 
Teddy Kennedy came and went at Notre Dame. He was on campus for a little over l'h hours, but the effect will be felt for many days to come. That relaxed confident smile as he climbed the stage will be remembered. That easy, af­fable wave to the crowd the strong, warm handshake; the severe attacks on President Nixon will remain in the minds of many for quite awhile. 
Yes, Ted Kennedy came to Notre Dame. Veni, vidi, vici. 


NOTICE 
Jobs Are Available... ! For FREE information on student assistance and placement program send self-addressed STAMPED envelope to the National Placement Registry, 1001 East Idaho St., Kalispell, MT 59901 
-NO GIMMICKS ­
dering. It was an electric moment and the Kennedy magic wand 

South Bend's Newest IIOV2 N. Main
worked· its magic. 
From the start, Kennedy seemed 
to have the crowd in his hand, 
particularly those students that 



THE RED DOOR CLUB 
ringed the stage. They all had arrived hours before so that they 

BEER * WINE * LIQUOR
might get a seat close to the stage. 
(Before Stepan opened, the line 

NO Night every stretched back to the Towers.) 
Tuesday
There was no question that those students who were first in line 

Memberships Available 
were wrapped up in the Kennedy 
ANB 
charisma, but the looks of idolation 

OPEN 1 1 am to 3om 
that they cast toward the stage 


WE CAN EARN MORE 


appointed 
WITH DORE 

known as the Association of Yale Alumni. The current president of 
VOTE the Yale Club of Michiana, Car­berry received his undergraduate education at Notre Dame and his 
PAT DORE
Ph.D. at Yale. In 1968 he received 
the Yale Engineering Association 
Award for the Advancement of 

Freshman Class Treasurer
Pure and Applied Sciences. 

FRESHMAN PHOTO DIRECTORIES MAY BE PICKED UP 4th FLOOR LA FORTUNE 1 -5 STUDENT 




UNION OFFICES 
1 
,j 
, 
l 
1
,
, 
~ ~ 
1 
~ 
1 
1 
~
, 
' 
1 
l 1 
1 
1 
1 
,, I
, 
1 
, 
~ 
,~ 
1 
1
,
,
, 
1 
~ 
1 
1 

Eurapean Trippinr:~


THE OBSERVER 
Bar-hopping

AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 

Perugia-style

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer,
News: 283-1715 on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the
Editorial: 283-8661 individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comn,ent.
Business: 283-7471 

ann mc:c:arry 

Monday, October 9, 1972 
Perugia. Italy-Bar-hopping Perugia-style is something that we were not completely prepared for upon our arrival in the Appenines. We came to this small university town to be oriented into Italian society gradually, to avoid "culture shock." Whether we were ex­pecting to find a Nicky's, Louie's or Shula's on the Perugian main­drag, I am not quite sure. What we did find are the Cafe Turreno the


Enough Talk 
Cafe Lilli, and the Club 2000, a discotheque. ' 
The Turreno and the Lilli are pretty much the same. 'The Turreno is located in the center of town, making it an excellent place to meet students who study in Perugia's five universities and institutes. In­cluded in this number is our temporary alma mater La Universita Ita Iiana per Stranieri, or as we affectionately call it, '"Stranieri U." Stranieri is attended by students from all parts of Europe, the Middle 
faculty and administration given

At 4:00 today the Student Life East and Africa. Council and the University votes commensurate with their One night at the Turreno, in conversation with a Somalian student, rela live importance. In other the old "What's your major? Where do you come from?" line cropped 
Academic Council will hold their 
words, the deck should be un­up. For a minute I thought some miracle had transported me to the
intitial meetings. No insignificant 
Senior Bar. Recovering my composure, I told him I lived near
stacked. The SLC, under thecoincidence. The two councils 

Chicago and was surprised to find he knew where it is located.
direction of a new and hopefully

bear the responsibility of "Ah, Chicago!" he cried. "Yes, Yes. How is the what-do-you-call­
more capable chairman, must it? ... Syndicate?" ·
determining the future direction 
assert its right to function as the I laughed, expecting him to imitate a submachine gun as the Alitalia 
of the governance of the 
critical legisla live body on all pilots had when I answered the same question on the flight over. I
university. There are two options. 
calmly told him that AI Capone and Frank Nitty had been dead for 
matters of student life, broadly

First, they can continue along many years.
construed. This means holding

the track of the past. The ad­"Oh. no. That's all back in the 1920's." He joined in my amusement. ministration will dominate the the Vice-President of Student "l mean now. You know, Daley ... King Richard?" Affairs directly responsible for No Domer at the Senior Bar ever had a comeback like that one. 
Academic Council and bypass or 
The Lilli is located on the other side of town in the Piazza Partigiani. 
any administrative veto.

veto the SLC whenever it is 
It's not as lively as the Turreno but features great service and a quiet
Politically, it's a question of

convenient to do so. Such actions back room that is perfect for surprise parties. 
replacing influence with clout. Allassert the inherent ability of 

the talk in the world about the The Italian Baradministrators to take a more wonder and beauty of community
long range and objective view of the problems that affect Notre government will not transform The Italian bar, in itself, is far removed from its American coun­the SLC into the policy-making terpart. F.irs~ of all, Italian bars open early in the morning and close 
Dame than any other group. 
around m1dmght. They serve every kind of food imaginable from ice 
body on questions of student life.

Alternatively, the two councils 
crea.m and bubblegum to pizza to crambled eggs, tea and toast.
Community government has

can use effective faculty and ~va1lable beverages range from mineral water to Coke to imported student input to develop geniune been battered about often in the hquor, the most expensive of which is U.S. whiskey.last few years, it's time to make it The clientele is greatly varied. A typical customer may be
community legislative bodies. It 
work. anywhere from 3 to 93 years old. Two old men may stop to reminisce
won't be easy. The Academic 
over espresso before buying their morning papers at the corner
Council will have to be 
newstand. Meanwhile, their grandsons will pause on their way to
John Abowd

streamlined with students, school to buy bubblegum and cookies. It is customary for married c~uples to come in around 10:30 p.m. with their young children. They w1ll have several glasses of Campare, an Italian liquor served with soda, while their kids slurp happily on chocolate ice cream cones and play with the bartender.
, 
Prices are very surprising. Only at the fancier bars is there a
11011111111111Ulllli..IIIIHIIIIHHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
r charge for table service. Coke or beer cost the same, around 45 cents r per glass. A glass of good wine, however, costs only 15 cents. Mixed r Letter . drinks sell from 60 cents to a dollar, depending on the type of liquor r used. A large pizza and half a bottle of wine can be bought for 1.30. r The people are not rowdy. One rarely encounters a crowd or a party
. . . on the war 
r except on weekends. It is also unusual to find a jukebox playing; most r are out of order. When they do work, the music isbasicallyAmerican. r Editor: Communists we apparently still The big hits this month are "Thick as a Brick ", "Alone AgainFour years ago America was Ihave not saved Vietnam. Naturally", and the ever-popular theme from "The Godfather". Th~ engaged in a holy war to save Thieu and Nixon have rejected Erratum Motown sound is also very popular in Italy. And old Beatles' songs fill 
South Vietnam from the evils of the Communist proposal for one-third of a typical machine.
a 
Communism. The American coalition government that wouldn't 

conscience was struck because our The columns which
be dominated by either side; so it Tlw Italian Simla's 
cure seemed as bad as the evil we now seems that the purpose of our appeared on this page in sought to eradicate. It was an last Friday's edition were
r holy war has clearly been The closest thing Perugia has to compare with the ever popular
election year, and we voted in a broadend to save South Vietnam mistakenly attributed to Shula's is the Club 2000. The 2000 is a bit swankier than Shula's. The new administration that promised from a Neutral as well as a the wrong authors. 
walls are paneled, the booths upholstered and the dance floors
to bring peace. Communist government. "Politics and the Elec­
f polished. Frequented by the 18-25 group, this discotheque features an
Nixon has brought troops home tion" was written by Greg 
r Again it is election year. Does abundance of American Top Forty. On Saturdays and Sundays (the 
and now carries on a more Aiello and "Chess-A
Smrtiva still have a conscience? hot nights in Perugia), the management brings in rock bands. Their
sphisticated war. For Americans Familiar Game" was
~ programs are substantially soul and old American Bandstand hits. 
the war has lost much of its pain, written by Bill Betz. 
In this joint, you pay for the atmosphere. There is no admissionbut still it goes on. Perhaps our Sincerely, charge, but everyone must order at least one drink. Coke and mixed ~ cure is too simple because after
, 
killing an incalculable number of Frank Berkemeier drinked are the only beverages served. Each sells for a flat rate of , 1000 lire or $1.80.
111111111 11"111IIIIIUIII'IIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHII_IIII___III"MMIIII"MI'II"MI--'IIMIMMIMIIII"~III 
r 
r 
' ~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
~ 
f 
~ 
r 
~ 
r 
r r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
, ~ 
, 
l__ 
daan..tlury 
g
. 
/0-1 
HH/'1... 
0 
81/T .I't-l­
OH 
SccWHf/TI 
Cf/N 00.
I 
511£'s XINP
C£UJ1RC.'/, 
OFCliT~
li!Evt:RBYt? 
PoN'I y(}()
C£UBRCYl 
71f1Nir? 
I I 

Going drinking in Perugia is not quite the same as a Wednesday night at Nicky's, a Friday night at Shula's or a Sunday night at Kubiak's. If you are with your friends, you can still have a good time even if you are a little short on money. ' 
There is one other advantage -NO CARDING! So, if the going gets rough in Sout Bend during the election year crack-down, why not try Italy next weekend instead of NILES? 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

the staff 
editorial staff business staff 
Editor-in-chief: John Abowd Husiness manager: Dan Thornton Executive editor: Don Ruane Advertising manager: Joe Butler News editor: Jerry Lutkus 
issue staffManaging editor: Joe Abell St. Mary's editor: Maria Night editor: Marlene Zloza Gallagher Ass't night editor: Chris Sullivan 

Editorial editor: Fred Giuffrida Day editor: Tom Bornholdt Features editor: Rod Braye 
Layout: Kathy Kelly, Mike Baum, Sports editor: Jim Donaldson 
Joe Abell Campus editor: Ann Theresa Typists: Mark Niederkorn, Mary
Darin Romer, Steve Roper, Howard Associate editors: Ed Ellis, Bob 

Halle 
Higgins :\light controller: David Rust 

Special projects editor: Anthony Picture man: Jerome Abowd 
Dl'iver: John 


Monday, October 9, 1972 the observer 
5 

cac dance and drama series 

opens with 'the birds' 
The 1972-73 Dance and Drama Series of" in his zany style, in a colloquial vein that is the Cultural Arts Commission will begin this of the text, sometimes compensating for this vear on October 17th with Walter Kerr's loss by extending an idea of the original in i1daptation of Aristophanes' classic comedy his own style. This production follows Mr. Thl' Birds. presented by the National Kerr's aim in trying to get the joke of Players of Washington, D.C. Now, one may Aristophanes out of where we can hear or 
say that they were just here last see it. and not on any obscure 'classical' year performing Tht' Trial and the year idea. before with Arms and thl' Man. Well, the In the play itself, Pithetaerus and 
National Players deserve to be back, with Eulpides are two clumsy Greeks who are the longest touring classical theatre com­fed urrwith the frauds, bores, and quacks of pany in the country, and also approximately Athenian society, so they leave Athens in an a ninety per cent average of requests for return engagements. So Notre Dame--SMC will not be the only campus to have seen them more than once. Playing ap­proximately 150 dates each year from coast to coast. the National Players are dedicated to bringing the magic and excitement of theatre to the current stage in as many towns. cities. and universities as possible. lkdication is the trademark of all National Players ensembles, achieved both through its staging. costuming, and lighting, but also hy their performed works: sometimes reviving masterpieces, such as the Birds; sometimes by introducing modern plays or adding other classics to their large reper­toire. The National Players production of The Birds is based on an 'acting version' written hy Walter Kerr, the New York City critic. Mr. Kerr reduces the original lines to their simplest meanings, and then recasts them, 


Little Bir:~ Screen art ferranti 
TI"ivia and Plugs. I will gladly review any The networks are trying to ·make up for picture appearing on campus the followingthe lack of good pictures <with a few ex­week <thereby getting some free publicity>ceptions l they presented last week by giving providing I get proper notice of the flick athe viewer some good solid action flicks this week and a half in advance. Leave anywPek. No schmaltz. no comedy but a few notice in mv box at Tht' Obst'rvt'r office.
screen favorites make the majority of the llowever. I· will not pass any informationmovie watching worth one's interest. Skip O\ ~r to the ad department nor will I give athe football game tonight in favor for the good review simply because the movie is forfirst NBC classic to air on Monday <with a worth wile cause (but a little graft neverapologies to all Raider and Oilers fans). 
hurt anybody).
.James Stewart and Henry Fonda pair off Once again, Stan Urankar, Obst'rvt'r and against each other in Firecrt'ek·-a western WSND sports commentator Pxtraordinaire that has the usual violence and plot <gang of wins the free plug since he was the only onefreebooters terrorizing a town) but it still to answer correctly (if fact the only one tostays a cut above any John Wayne flick answer at all l the name of the actor whoshort of Stagecoach and True Grit. The played the fourth Maverick. It was Robertbullets begin to fly at 8:00. 
Colbert who also starred in an atrocious TV Thursday at 8:00 on James Garner entity called The Timt> Tunnt>l with James
22 

plays the Ray Chandler sleuth Philip Darren. Since it is plug time, I hope Marlowe in Marlowt>, a role created by everyone got a good laugh when Observer Humphrey Bogart in The Big Sleep and news editor Jerry Lutkus and campus editor subsequently followed by Dick Powell and Ann T Darin asked questions of Sen. Ted Hobert Montgomery. For those who like a Kennedy Friday on WNDU (16). Thank little of the classic Bogart mixed with some God they are top writers and not TV com­l\1averil'k and a little trntouchables action mentators. They were not as bad as I thrown in for good measure, don't miss this make them out to be, but, for example, if flick. On Friday night, we can view Sidney Jerry was to have his own TV news show, it Poitier for the third time in a month on would be very reminescent of the fictiJnal prime time TV. He returns as Lt. Virgil Ted Baxter show on Mary Tyler Moore. Tibbs In tht> llt'at of the Night, in They Call Besides, I, along with 2,000 other ND 1\le Mistt'l· Tibbs!, this time as a San students, beat them out with a national f<'rancisco detective <they should take a poll debut on First Tut>sday two years ago. to see how many crime busters of the Trivia Question Time. Last night El cinema and TV have been based in the great Dorado aired on ABC. It was actually a city by the bay and Los Angeles, the city remake of Rio Bravo with different with the purple skyl on a typical murder characters; example, the drifter in El case. They have given Tibbs a wife in the Bm·ado was called Mississippi; in Rio person of Barbara McNair but her acting Bravn. Colorado. So, in this multi-part does not supply the counterpoint by Poitier question please answer Rod Steiger did three years earlier. a. l who played John Wayne's part in Rio 
Also, Friday on the late movie on 22, the· Bravo (a giveaway) life of Ernie Pyle, the great journalist of b. l who played Robert Mitchum's part as WWII who wrote about the lives of ser-the drunk <hint) but reformed sheriff in Rio vicemen abroad with truth and compassion, Bravo? will be told in the 1945 film The Story of G.I. c. l who played James Caan 's .Jot'. one of the best movies to come out of <Mississippi> part as Colorado in Rio the war. Again. the three made for TV Hnl\'o? movies look bad so pass by Night of Terror d. l and who played the old deputy in Rio <Tues., 28l, Visions <Tues., 22), and Lt. Bravo? Sdmstt'r's Wife <Wed., 28l. Also, go out and celebrate Saturday night because the Robert Mitchum and Cliff Robertson war flick Tlw Devil's Brigade is not worth the ueuuaJa: JaneM ( ·p uos1aN powder it would take to blow it to you-know-:lf:J!'H (":J U!llew ueaa cq au.-\eM uqor ce where. ·z!nb ll!A!l.L aq1 01 sJaMsuv 
e~fort to found a better society among the birds_ <Clou~ Cuckool~nd). Once they begin to build their new society they are besieged by all the Athenian characters they had just tried to escape: a poet, a prophet, a real­estate man, a tax inspector, a lawyer and so on. and alas by all the Olympian gods. Since Cloud Cuckooland lies between Mount Olympus and earth, the birds demand that the gods pay tribute when they are passing through their territory en route to earth. This tribute comes in the form of Iris--a flighty goddess who also 1appens to fall in love with the mortal Pithetaerus--before fleeing back to Zeus. Of course, the gods of Olympus protest over this tribute, but the birds' society eventually triumphs: the gods acquiesce, Pithetaerus marries Iris, and all is happinness in Cloud Cuckooland. The whole effect of the play is a manner similar to our musical revues and 

Hichard Winterstein as Pithetaerus
burlesque. And for all you critics out there who of Tht> Birds. Patron card holders must 
already are at work at this synopsis of the present their patron cards at a tickert out!.et 
play, there is a warning in this production, or at the box office to obtain your ticket for as the cast are lined up on the stage. (It is this event. Individual tickets and Patron 
paraphrased here. l As they all are birds, cards will both be on sale at the ticket 
they say that they will be forever thankful if outlet and at O'Laughlin box office the :.·ou like the play. But if you don't and you night of the performance. For any further plan to walk down the street tomorrow... 
information please call 283-3797 between 12­they advise you wear a hat. 
3 on Monday through Fridays. The Cultural 
Hemember: The National Players will be Arts Commission hopes you all plan on a here October 17th at 8:00P.M. at O'Laughlin 
hatless evening at O'Laughlin Auditorium Auditorium with Walter Kerr's adaptation on Ocotber 17. 

maya// at the civic 
pat small 

I find it rather difficult to give a com­petent review on someone like John Mayall considering I've never listened to any of his music. I know of him as the King of the British blues; the man who broke in Eric C'lapton. Jack Bruce, Pete Green, Mark­Almond, and a score of others; and I know that he has progressed in more different musical directions than any other group or individual. save the Byrds. Disregarding all of these types, I tried to maintain a fairly critical attitude toward him, which should have been easy considering I'm not into jazz-blues that much. However, I wasn't too successfu.l as Mayall and his band were tremendous. 


Mayall has once again assembled another last number. They encored with "Will I Be group of really talented muscians. His 
True."
lineup features Blue Mitchell on trumpet Although I've had nothing but praise forand flugelhorn, Fred Clark on alto, tenor, Mayall, there is one thing that they wereand baritone sax, Victor Gaskins on a big lacking: togetherness. The band functioned double bass, Freddy Robinson on guitar, quite well as soloists but they didn't appearformer Mayall Bluesbreaker Keef Hartley to be a really tight, polished band. This wason drums, and himself on rhythym guitar, fairly noticeable on the part of Blue Mit­keyboards, and harmonica. All proved chell. However, the music still came offthemselves quite competent soloists, but 
alright.
Fred Clark stole the show with his sax solos On the whole, it was very satisfying ex­and his all-around rapport with the crowd. 
perience. Mayall proved himself a definiteMost of the music was jazz-blues. The non-ego tripper by the way he let hissongs would start off bluesy and the horn musicians solo through most of the show.
solos would take them into jazz. The only One can easily see why he has gone through straight blues number that was played all so many personnel changes. However. henight featured Freddy Robinson on the has the knack of selecting really talentedvocal and guitar solo while the horns were musicians as I can honestly say that I wasrelegated to the background. It was great. 
not in the least bored by any of the solos. IAlthough I am admittedly very partial to the can't say the same about the time I sawblues, still I think Mayall could drop his Butterfield and his horns.
horn players and have a great band. 

While admittinP, that the band was great. IProbably the best song all night was remain a devo\1 I lover of the blues and IMayall's "Exercise in C" which featured wouldn't object •v Mayall returning solely toMayall on harmonica playing in his famous 
the blues.
style of using his tongue and his breathing 
llllllllllllllllllllllllllJIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
for percussion while backing himself up on organ. He received a great standing ovation from the audience who ate up all of his music the whole night. ­
The rest of the material that was per­fomred was excellent. They opened with 
Oh. so. when modern things are thrust
"Messin' Around" which was sort of bluesy 
By death beneath the coffin lid,
and featured a trumpet and a sax solo. 
Our liberal sons will spurn our dust
'Goodtime Boogie" was a solo-fest in which 
And wonder what it was we did.
everyone except the drummer soloed. The band also played "Things Go Wrong" which was a rock-jazz number from their soon-to­be-released-album. The last cut was 
Alfred Lord Tennyson

another soloists' exhibition in which everyone got their licks in. Blue Mitchell played a good extended trumpet solo on the 
~llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllJIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIillllllllill 

Monday, October 9, 1972
the observer

6 


Rap Center: share problems 
by Maude Pytynia Observer Staff Reporter 
The Rap Center, located at 527 

W. Colfac Ave., is really an "everything" place-a place where you can bring your problems and talk them out with a number of people who work with the Center. 
Established in 1970, the Rap 

Center has been housed in three 
different buildings. At the present 
time its staffers are looking for a 
building of their own, and the funds 
and people needed to stabilize its 
foundations. 
Mike Alford, a recent ND 

graduate and a staff member ex­plained that individuals par­ticipate in both group and one-to­one encounters at the Center. It is in this way that people are able to communicate with others of their peer group when considering problems which usually stem from drug involvement and the legal 
SLC to hold 
and medical aspects of this in­volvement. This "rapping" can be done both in person and over the telephone. 
The Rap Center has also spon­sored bi-weekly summer concerts in Howard Park. Last April it was involved in organizing a People's Fair which allowed people to view an arts and crafts show, and also a concert. 
Members of the Rap Center staff, now numbering ten, undergo a three-week training program before they get to observe and actually participate in the Center's many functions. These training sessions involve encounter groups and lectures on such varied sub­jects as transactional analysis and suicide prevention. At times a panel discussion revolving around the life and habits of a person well into the drug culture will be utilized. Sessions on "role­playing" and talking down people on trips are common. 
Each of the staff members have an equal vote in all decision­making. 
Although the Rap Center is an autonomous organization, it works with NIDAS, a drug rescue and counseling service. The Center itself does not go out form its walls for drug rescue, but its staffers do go out on free speaking tours if asked. 


1.eCorbusier' tonight 
The 55-minute color art film, "LeCorbusier," to be screened tonigh at 8 and 10 p.m. at the Notre Dame Engineering Auditorium as part of the "Museum Without Walls" film series, will bring to viewers the most complete motion 
picture to date on the in­
• g "oday ternatio~ally great architect.
meetm I' The film was made by Carlos 
Today at 4:00pm in the Center for Continuing Education, the Student Life Council will hold its first meeting of the semester. The major concern will be to judge the direction the body will be taking this year. The election of a chairman and the appointment of members to standing committees will also be handled. No issues will be decided because all projects must first go to committees. 
Vilardebo, one of the architects's collaborators, and has com­mentary by CDouglas Cooper, British art historian and collector. 
Le Corbusier's great impact on architect u a I development throughout the world is dramatically portrayed in the film .. His concern for the urbanized man revolutionized architectural design druing his lifetime and continues to have a strong impact. 
The center of heated discussions 
IIIIUIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Today's chess tournament pairings 
Black
\\'hill" Round 4: 

R. Lis 1234-6689) DaCunha(234·1385l M. Lins 13648> Marchuska (1688) Diagle <8977l Campagna (233-4300) 
The game must be played before the end of tonight's round or it is 
scored a double forfeit! ! 
Hound 5: 
1. Pettit U286> 
2. Antolino I 1262> 3. Kelly !8768) 
4. 
Espenan (1038 l 

5. 
Hannah I 1316> 

6. 
Burger I1057) 

7. 
Saville I 1170) 8. Shapiro 1234-9648) 9. Szasz 1289-4119> 


10. Da Cunha 1234·1385 11. Ursu 16349) 
12. Usignol I 1735> 13. Lis 12.14.(;689 l 14. lloppner 18892) 15. Finnigan 13589> 16. O'Neill 1232-9597) 17. Zagrams U389l 
18. Carnes I 1724 > 20. HE'illy 18918> 21. Grimm 13264) 22. Gibbs 1234·6584l 
23. Peroz 24. Anchetta 1272·9462) 25. Griffin 18604! 26. Keenan !3317l 
27. Hanrahan I 1201 > 
18. Weaver 
29. De Saussure I1372) 30. Moran 16727> 31. Early 11863> 
32. Lins I 3648> 33. Crowley 11113> 
34. Bornholdt I8455 > 
The IE'aders after four rounds: 1·3 Chirs Kohlimmer 1-3 Steve Osborne 1·3 Steve Pettit 
4-8 Mike Antolino 
HI Pierre Espenan 
4-8 Geoffery Hui 
4·8 John Kelly 
4-S.Tim Nowalk 
Osborne 0781) Kohlmiller (1177) Nowalk (8372) Hui ( 7963) Krebsbach (3591 Glika 0598) Bachman (272--Q509) Bolduc (272-7405) Wilkowski 0412) Sorge (234~274 Parker (6325) Fitzpatrick (8658) 
Andrade 0874) 
Mutz 0093) Arena (1062) O'Connell (6795) Campagna (233-4300) McCollum (7874) Corballo (272-7405) Podlasek (6781) 
Mendez ( 8876) Perry (3114) Trofino (8325) 
Sitter (8571) Marchuska 0688) Parretta (272-1365 
Yates (8406) 
Locher <233-9406 Hyland (1496) Slattery (8286) 
Kampman (8810) Daigle (8977) Schott (6322) 
4-{) 
4.() 4.() 
3l:t_l,2 
3•2-12 
3':!-1.2 ~~ :!-·2 
3 12-1·2 

Please contact your opponent and the Observer Office (8661) in cases of lateness, forfeiture, or withdrawal from the tourney. 
1-IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIURIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
-
ATTENTION! N · D · SENIORS! 
RETURN PROOFS FOR THE YEARBOOK 2-C LA FORTUNE TUESDAY, OCT· 10 11-3 this is the final deadline questions, call 7085 between 11-3 
in the architectual world because of his revolutionary byilding concepts. Le Corbusier developed a series of standardized element~ which could be combined in many waays to erect a building. His ideas were a foretaste of modern construction methods. He made no concessions at the outset of his career and was frustrated during the war years, so Le Corbusier waited until he was almost 60 to realize the important conceptions which he evolved in his youth. In spite of dozens of unfulfilled plans, such as designs for idea. cities for New York, Antwerp and Berlin, the great architect persisted: "Of this I am sure," he said, "I am right." . 
"Le Corbusier" has footage on such dramatic building in­novations as the Swiss Students Dormitory at the Paris University; the Salvation Army Hostel, the Villa Savoie, also in Paris; the Millowners building; and the Heidi-Weber Museum. 
Frosh candidate!$ 
to give platforms 
at meeting tonight 
There will be a meeting tonight at 7::10 for all freshmen running for class office. It will be held on the second floor of the LaFortune Student Center. All freshmen who are interested in hearing the views of the candidates are invited to attend. Freshmen are reminded that elections are Thursday af­ternoon. 
VOTE FOR 



t<aren Zientry 
-a leader --freshman class vice-president 
Tues. Oct. lQ 


FREE UNIVERSITY 
An Alternative Have You Any Knowledge? of the arts &·crafts, music, the letters, 
practical and technical skills, life. We are your vehicle. 
We Need People to offer courses and help organize. 
call Jim 7883 or bring 
course description to 204 lyons 
WHY PAY THROUGH YOUR NOSE TO SATISFY YOUR EARS? 
LEE LOUDSPEAKER SYSTEMS (Patents applied for) 
You buy them factory direct. Their enclosures are of the finest oil rubbed walnut. They carry a free 5 year factory warranty. Yet. most important of alt. we are conviced that they will easily out perform any make of loudspeakers selling for twice their price. In face, we strongly urge you to compare their audio reproductive qualities, under equal conditions of placement and loudness, to any other loudspeaker available-no matter how large or expensive they may be. You've got to hear them to believe them, so see our campus representative for a demonstration and free brochure. 
Model LD-6, 18"-14"--8" deep, S39.97 each. Model LD-8, 18"-11"-12" deep, $49.97 each. Model LD-26, 22"-14"-12 1-8" deep, $65.97 each. 
36 WATT AM+FM MPX STEREO RECEIVER W-8-TRACK TAPE PLAYER AND TWO AIR SUSPENSION SPEAKERS 
This is easily a $149.95 value, your price is only $98.32. Mode. 8216 
8-TRACK STEREO CARTRIDGE TAPE PLAYER 
Normally sells for $49.95, your price is only $31.73, Model 16247 
AC-DC CASSETTE TAPE RECORDER 
An ideal lecture recorder. Comes complete with AC line cord, 4 "C" cell batteries, carrying strap remote control microphone, push button controls. A $44.95 value, your price is only $31.66. Model Br 
380 

AM-FM AFC DIGITAL CLOCK RADIO 
Deluxe walnut grained vinyl clad wood cabinet. quality Am-Fm radio with AFC, silhouette lighted digital clock with large numerals, back lighted radio dial. loaded with extras. A $44.95 value, your price is only $33.17 Model 15227. 
5 year factory warranty on Lee Loudspeaker Systems, 90 day factory warranty on all other products. We pay the freight and shipping charges, and give you a 15 day money back satisfaction 
quarantee. 
1tTO ORDER: SIMPLY FILL IN THIS COUPON AND SEND IT
---------------­
A ALONG WITH A CERTIFIED CHECK OR MONEY ORDER TO; & 
I LEE ELECTRONICS MFG., LTO., P.O. BOX 5, N ELM ST., 1 
' THREE OAKS, MICHIGAN, 49128, (616) 756-9122. ' 
t PLEASE RUSH ME ( ) MODEL & 
I HAVE ENCLOSED A CERTIFIED CHECK OR MONEY ORDER : IN THE AMOUNT OF f 
' NAME 

I
'

t IDATE 
• STREET ADDRESS. • 
• C_ITY ' 
' STATE-------------------------------------­
ZIP CODE ' 
' NOTE: ALLOW~. DAYS FOR DELIVERY-A LITTLE LONGER • FOR PERSONAL CHECKS '
L 

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: 
--------------­
WRITE TO US, OR SEE OUR CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE 
STEVE MAGDZINSKI 232 STANDFORD HALL N.D.U., 283-8650 

1972 ND STUDENT TRIP 
SEE THE IRISH PLAY THE FALCONS OF AIR FORCE DEPART: Friday, {early pm) Nov. 10, RETURN : Sunday, {late pm) Nov. 12 Here's How To Take Advantage Of The Packaged Plans: 
A.) The Full Package ($140.00) .. including round-trip bus transportation between South Bend and O'Hare Field, round-trip plane transportation between Chicago and Denver, complete baggage service, hotel ac­commodations for two nights, round-trip bus transportation between Denver and the Air Force Academy (box lunches will be served en route) and free admission to a pre-game party (Friday night) and to a victory party (Saturday night after the aame). 
B.) Partial packages more suited to your needs are available. 
Signups may be handled in the OffCampus Office basement of Lafortune from 11 :30 am to 4:00 pm Deadline for signups and payment is Tuesday, O~t. 10. For further information Call Jim Shanahan at t 233-4840 
I 
I 
Monday, October 9, 1972 the observer 7 
I 
4,000 in crowd 
l







Kennedytalk liftssupportas'spirits J 
by Mike Baum 

McGovern campaign workers here and in South Bend expressed enthusiasm over Sen. Edward Kennedy's speech here Friday, citing Kennedy's attack on corruption in the Nixon Ad­ministration as his most important point. At the same time, a recent Students for McGovern poll shows McGovern holding an 8 per cent lead over Nixon among students of Notre Dame -St. Mary's. 
Students for McGovern organizer AI Cramer noted that he was "pleased with the turnout" at" the Kennedy Speech in Stepan Center. The crowd was estimated at four. thousand. 
"I think the most important point he leveled was corruption in the Nixon Administration," Cramer observed, "The McGovern movement has been on the 
defensive  to much.  We have to  
force  Nixon  to  defend  his  
policies."  

Kennedy leveled serious charges of corruption in the Nixon Ad­ministration, citing the ITT anti­trust case, Russian grain deeds, and the Watergate incident. 
Jack Pfaffinger, another member of the Students for McGovern organization, remarked, "I think it (Kennedy's speech) was quite a boost to the campus ... the reaction was very 

Action recruiters here 
by John Culligan Beginning October 9 and continuing until October 13. four representatives from Action will he at the Memorial Library Concourse from 9 am till 5 pm. The purpose of their visit is to provide general information about Action to those students that are interested. They will also conduct interviews with any student that is interested in joining. Action is an organization that is eomprised of the Peace Corps, Vista. and other smaller groups which are interested in the bet­terment of mankind. The representatives here are in­terested in students wishing to take part in either the Peace Corps or Vista program. The Peace Corps is a two year program that sends volunteers to other countries that need their help Vista volunteers provide service to 
people in this country. Par­ticipants in Vista serve for only one vear. 
· Mr. Herman DeBose, a return volunteer from Kenya, is in charge of the group that will be here for the next few days. Like Mr. DeBose, the other three representatives hav have also had ('Xperience in either the Peace Corps or Vista. All four stress the point that a degree or a specialty is not needed in order for someone to participate in one of these programs. 
This is the only time this year that the group will visit the ND eampus. Anyone having questions or wanting to join one of the groups should stop in at the Library during the specified hours this week. Also, the Action represen­tatives are available for class or club lectures and can be reached at the library or by calling 8183. 

Sociology prof dies 
Dr. John J. Kane, former head of the sociology departments at the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, died Friday, October 6 in Philadelphia. He was li3. 
A native of Philadelphia, Dr. Kane received his undergraduate training at St. Joseph's College, his 
M.A. from Temple University, and his Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania, all in Philadelphia. Last year, he left Notre Dame's faculty to become chairman of the sociology department at St. Joseph's. 
Before joining Notre Dame's faculty in 1948, he taught two years at St. Joseph's College. He headed Notre Dame's sociology depart­ment from 1953 to 1963 andnlater served as chairman of St. Mary's sociology department while also remaining on Notre Dame's faculty. He served as president of the American Catholic Sociology Sociey in 1952 and was active in the National Conference of Christians and Jews. 
A specialist in the family, Dr. Kane was the author of four books in that area and for many years wrote a syndicated column, "family clinic" which appeared in many diocesan and secular papers. 

A wake will be held Tuesday night at Toppetzers Funeral Home in Drexel Hill, Pa., with a funeral Mass scheduled for 10 am Wed­nesday in St. Charles Church in Drexel Hill. 
He was survived by two daughters. 


THE GUESS WHO 
plus: White Trash with Jerry LaCroix 
HOMECOMING CONCERT October 14 at 8:30 
Hear their hits: "These Eyes," "Laughin," "Undun," "Notime," "AmericanWoman," "Rain Dance," and more 
Some Good Seats Still Availabl 
CHAIR SEATS $5.50 BLEACHERS ---$3.00 
Tickets on sale at Student Union Ticket Office, 3rd 
floor LaFortune (11:30 -1:00, 3-5) and the ACC 
Ticket Office (9-5). 


TRAVEL BUREAU 
"ON CAMPUS"-BADIN HALL 
*Airline Reservations *Complete Domestic and Foreign Services *Representative for dl airlines *No Additional Cost 
"Oriented to youth Programs" 
FIRST BANK & TRUST TRAVEL 
Phone : 283-7080 
enthusiastic from the crowd ... " Pfaffinger thought Kennedy's comments on the war and domestic issues such as education and health care to be his most important points. 
Paul Scherer, co-chairperson of the South Bend McGovern -Brademas organization, agreed taht corruption in government was the "most important point," ad­ding that, "Rampant corruption in the Nixon Administration, I think, will be the hallmark of the Nixon Administration in history." 
While Sherer felt this to be "intrinsically most important," he noted that "economic issues and the war in Vietnam" most con­cerned the people at present. 
Commenting on the success of Kennedy's stay, Sherer remarked, "I think that the community reaction has been tremendous, "noting that it was impressive to get 1,000 people out at 7:00 am for a $25.00 breakfast." 
Meanwhile, in a poll taken recently by Notre Dame-St. Mary's Students for McGovern, the McGovern-Shriver ticket ran 8 per cent ahead of the incumbent Republican candidates. 
The poll, possibly the most ex­tensive poll thus far, was taken 
Civilian casualties not reported 
(continued from page 2) 

unavailable, even in executive session," the senator said. 
He said that Pentagon officials "seem to operate on the assujmp­tion that because it is not our gobernment's policy and intention to hit civilian areas, we therefore don't-except accidentally. How many so-called accidents occur, is apparently unknown." 
The transcript of the hearings quoted Kennedy as asking Pauly if there is "any reason we cannot have the aerial photography" of areas where civilian damage was inflicted. A note in the transcript said that "the witness's answer is classified." It added that "not photography was shown to the subcommittee, however, and none, 
apparently,  will  be  made  
available."  
Several  other  senators  

acquainted witnh the transcript of the hearings expressed privately their view that Patily's testimony appeared to raise again the problem of command control in the conduct of the Vietnam war. 
They said that the failure by field commanders to forward civilian damage reports to Washington could lead to situations similar to the unauthorized strikes on North Vietnam last year by Maj. Gen. John D. Lavelle, the demoted commander of the Seventh Air Force. 
door to door in the halls on both campuses, attempting to contact every person. Responses were obtained from 4121 persons, 3318 at Notre Dame and 803 at St. Mary's. 
The breakdown showed McGovern with 1402 votes at Notre Dame and 380 at St. Mary's, or about 43.2 per cent. Nixon totalled 1121 at Notre Dame and 330 at St. Mary's, or about 35.2 per cent, the rest undecided. Cramer noted that the class that went heaviest for the Republican ticket was Freshmen. 
Hall by hall totals, Cramer announced, are available for in­spection at McGovern headquarters in the Tom Dooley Room of LaFortune Student Center. The room is open from Ilam to midnight Monday through Friday, or may be reached by phone at 283-8415. The newly opened St. Mary's headquarters is in 105 Regina North and is open from 4 to 6 pm Monday through Friday.
Interested S. Mary's students 
should call either Pat Murphy at 
4124 or Ann McDonald at 4629. 


• 
.. 
• 

.. 
the. observer Monday, October 9, 1972
8 

touchdown late In the fourth quarter 





Irish 
by Vic Dorr 
Lured by a Notre Dami:­Michigan State football game, 77,828 fans crammed themselves into Spartan Stadium on Saturday afternoon. 
ThE' few non-partisans present wpre treated to a thrilling display of defensive football, and saw a game that wasn't decided until wl'll into the final period of play. Michigan State backers, who made up a large majority of the crowd, saw their team rebound from last WE'!'k 's USC debacle by harassing the Irish for most of the afternoon. 
But Notre Dame's fans saw their iPam win, 16-o. They saw junior placl'kicker Bob Thomas hit three field goals, they saw fullback Andy !luff score a last minute touch­down from eight yards out, and they saw the Irish defense hold the ~'partans to no points, only six first 
• downs. and less than 200 yards in total offense. Notre Dame's defensive team Pnjoyed great success against the MSU wishbone. and after they had blunted Michigan State's first drive of the game, the Irish offense took over at its own 31. Runs by Andy !luff and Darryll Dewan and quick passes to Dewan and split end Willie Townsend moved the hall to the State 30, but there the drive stalled and Thomas came on to put the Irish on the scoreboard with a 47-yard field goal. The Spartan defense tighter.~_, after ND's first score, and the Irish WE're able to mount only one more sprious threat in the first half­also resulting in a field goal. Ken Schlezes' 22-yard return of Michigan State's third punt of the game set the Irish up on MSU's 28, and from there the ND offense drove to the Spartan eight. 
But on third-and-five from the Pight. Eric Penick was dropped well short of the first down, and Thomas had to kick his second three-pointer. this one from the 
14. Notre Dame's second field goal camP with 14:23 left in the second period, but it was the last scoring of thE' first half. 
"I was very impressed by their defense," said Irish coach Ara Parseghian. "John McKay said it's the best defensive team he's played, and I told Duffy maughertyl his kids played a rPallv great game." 
"They did a good job scouting us and a good job preparing for the game. and I thought Duffy was doggone smart the way he plaverl it." 
Basketball team 
lists tryouts 
Tryouts for Notre Dame's varsity basketball team will be held next Monday and Tuesday, October 16-17 in the main arena of the Athletic and Convocation Center. 
Candidates should bring their own equipment and use the student lockers in the ACC. 
... 
.. 

outdefense S artans, 16-0 
The way the Spartans played it was to rely on a quick, pursuit­conscious defense, and on a kicking game that kept Notre Dame in a hole for much of the game. Notre Dame's offense wasn't totally shackled--the Irish attack gained 338 yards in total offense--but it could only move in spurts against the fired­up Spartans. 
Michigan State's offense, on the other hand, was completely shackled by the Irish "d". The Spartans were able to cross midfield only once, and then they penetrated only to the Notre Dame 44-yard line. MSU's lone drive into ·No territory came early in the fourth period, with the Irish still nursing their slim 6-o margin. 
State recovered Eric Penick's fumble on the MSU 21, and, keeping to the ground, quickly slashed to the NO 44. On third­and six from there, Spartan quarterback Mark Neisen tried to 

throw over the middle to his tight Andy Huff powers through a gaping hole to score Notre Dame's only 
side of the Spartan line for a 26­yard gain to the 18. Three plays FIRST DOWNS later, with 4:37 left, Bob Thomas Rushing .. 
Passing
sealed Notre Dame's victory by 
Penalties........ .. drilling his third field goal of the YARDS RUS!IING .. 
Lost Rushing .
day, a 26-yarder. 
Net Rushmg . .. . TIMES CARRIED ..Wrestling tryouts PASSES 
CompiNed ...... . 
Had lnt!'rceptPd .. YARDS PASSING .. TOTAL PLAYS .
scheduled Tues. 
1nterceptwns . Yards returntd ...
There will be a meeting for all 
PUNTS ' wrestlers and anyone interested in Punting avf'rage . Punt~ rPiurned .. .
joining the wrestling team 
Yards returned .. .
Tuesday afthnoon at 4:30 pm in Kickoffs.ret.ydsthe auditorium of the Athletic and turned/yards . . .. 
PE!'IALTIES/Yards
Convocation Center. 
FL'MBLES!Lost 

Individool St:at.is.tics 
·tt>~ptions: K~n Se~ttn~S. I for 16;
• ~OTRE DI(ME . 

Rl'SHHfC-Dat;TYRI~aD. 16 for 72 Rt>ggte Bametl, I for 5; Tim Rudnick, I yards; Eli~>" J;t'nii:li~o for 65: l\fll!)' 
11!1'0: Wuff. 15 lor 114. I 'fD; lohl\ Ciesl!ko\Yskt, MICHIGAN STATE tl lor 24; T<>ITI 'Ciel!lfnts. 5 lor 22; Gary RUSHING -Mark Niesen, 16 for 95 Dtminick,. t Cor 5; AI Samuel I for 4. yards; Arnold Morgado, 15 for 51; Total. 64 for 256. James Bond, 3 for 12; Damond Mays, 4 PASSING -Tom Clements. 9 out of for 5; Dave E. Brown, I foro. Total, 39 
18. I intercepted, 82 yards; DarryU De· for 163. 

1.-an. 0 lor I. PASSING ....; Mark Niesen, 3 out or 9, RECEIVING -Willie Townsend, 3 28 ~'ards, 3 interceptions. 
for '!1 yards; Gary Diminick... l fill' 14; RECEIVING :....James Bond. I for 18 Bobby Washington. I for 12; DarryU vards; Blllv JIM! DuPree, I for 10; Da. Dewan. 1 lor II; Mike Creaney, I for 9; inond Mavs, I foro. Eric Penick. I for 5; Andy Huff. I for 4. PUNTING-BUI Simpson, 10 for 42.7 
PUNTING -Brian Doherty. 5 for a\·tragd. 

41.6 average. RETURNS -Kickoffs: Dave E. 
RETURNS-Punts: Ken Schlezes, 3 Brown. I for '!1 vards; Mike Danieltw· for -10 vards; Tim Rudnick. I for I; icz. 2 for 17; lnierceptlons: Paul Hay· Kickorfs: Gary Diminick. I for 23; In· ner. I for 0. 
N.D. ~ISU 16 6 II 4 
4 2 I 0 'll7 164 21 ·I 256 163 ti4 39 19 9 
9 3 I r 3 82 28 
83 ' 48 
3 ·· I 21 0 5 10 
41 6 42.1 4 0 41 o' 
1·2!1 3·44'1 1·2~' 3-44 . i-1~ 7-66 
S.l' ().0 
into the end zone on fourth-and­goal from the eight. 
Thomas' placement gave the Irish their final point, and Tim Budnick's interception on State's first play following the score-a desperation. liO-yard bomb-iced thE' win. 
"Our kicking game and our pass defense both held up well today," said Parseghian. "We made some mistakes on offense, but still I was pleas('d with our performance und('r these conditions." 
"We really needed this sort of gam('. We had to prove we could play it to the hilt after two relatively easy games. The dPfense knew they had to stop the Spartans, and they did." 
The victory was the third straight for the Irish, who next \\'PPkend meet Pittsburgh in Notre !lamP Stadium. Michigan State is I :1. 



The Irish Eye 
:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:===============================:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:The defense rests 
The trial of Notre Dame's young defense, which began September 23 in Evanston. Illinois, came to a close Saturday in East Lansing, Michigan, when a largely hostile jury of 77,828 begrudgingly adjudged the Irish not guilty of any of the charges made against them. 
Prior to the start of the season, the Irish defensive unit was accused of vulnerability. The front line was said to be porous, the linebackers, inadequate. and the secondary, helpless to stop opposing passers. The ('Vidence on which these charges were based, the fact that only three starters were returning from last year's veteran defensive team, was circumstantial, but the accusers felt that their claims would be proven Irue once the Irish were brought to trial. 
Notre Dame's first hearing was just over two weeks ago against North­western and its opening arguments were impressive. The Irish d('fense's shut out of the Wildcats was duly presented as Exhibit" A". but was eonsidered to be insubstantial evidence on which to render a verdict. 
Charges might have been dropped after the Purdue game of September :lOth. had not Notre Dame, after holding the Boilermakers scoreless for three quarters, given up 14 points in the fourth quarter. The judges ruled that the case should be continued to the following Saturday. 
With Duffy Daugherty's Spartans waiting to turn State's evidence, Notre Dame's detractors felt confident that the Irish would be found guilty and sentenced to defeat. Even Notre Dame's most ardent backers wondered if the Irish could prove themselves innocent. Either way, a decision seemed imminent last Saturday in East Lansing. 
The Irish were faced with a difficult task. The atmosphere in Spartan Stadium was ho~ile and Daugherty, in the role of prosecutor, ruthlessly sought a conviction. 
But Notre Dame, in the finest traditions of Clarence Darrow and Ara Parseghian, Louis Nizer and Knute Rockne, presented a brilliant defense on its own behalf, shutting out Michigan State, Hi-0, and was proclaimed innocent beyond the shadow of a doubt. 
The Irish defense was outstanding under trying conditions. It allowed Michigan State to cross the 50--yard line just once, in the fourth quarter, and then stopped that penetration at the 44-yard line. 
The Spartans were only able to pick up 191 yards in total offense, 163 of those yards coming on the ground. They recorded just six first downs in the ball game. 
And the key play in Notre Darpe's victory, its third of the year without a loss, was made by a defensive player, halfback Kenny Schlezes. 
With the Irish clinging to a tenuous 6-olead midway through the fourth quarter and M.S.U. making its deepest penetration into Notre Dame territory, Schlezes stepped in front of a Mark Niesen pass intended for tight end Billy Joe Dupree at the Irish 34 and returned the ball to midfield. 
Notre Dame subsequently moved to State's 19, setting up Bob Thomas for his third field goal, a 26-yarder which insured the Irish win. 
The Irish defense against the Spartans hinged on one principle: keep State's fleet halfbacks inside and, if possible, make the quarterback carry the ball. 
As evidenced by the M.S.U. point total, or lack of, the strategy worked perfectly. Although quarterback Niesen gained 95 yards in 16 carries and fullback Arnold Morgado rushed 15 times for 51 yards, halfbacks Damond Mays and Jim Bond gained only 17 yards in seven carries, combined. And the Spartans didn't score. 
"We made the quarterback the runner to take away the outside because that's where you get beat," explained Parseghian afterwards. 
With their standout performance against the Spartans, Notre Dame's defense won a ball game, and the case against its detractors. The charges leveled against its abilities were proven false. The Irish have a defensive unit to be proud of, one that will carry the burden, if again called upon to do so, in future games. 
Eleven scoreless quarters in 12 played, coupled with Saturday's showing, is more than ample evidence of its capabilities. The defense rests. 
Pnd, Billy Joe Dupree. But Irish defensive back Ken Schlezes diagnosed the play perfectly. He stepped in front of Dupree, in­tercepted the pass, and returned it IIi yards to midfield. 
.:We knew that Dupree was their rna in receiver." said Schlezes. I had a back to cover, but when he stood back to block I was sort of looking for a pass to Dupree. I knew he was on the left, and from past game films I figured he'd run a crossing pattern." 
The Irish offense didn't waste the opportunity. After quar­terback Tom Clements was stopped for no gain on a keeper, PPnick skipped through the left 

Saturday at Michigan State. But NO wasn't through. After Reggie Barnett intercepted Neisen at the State 39, the Irish drove to their only touchdown of the game. A 17-yard gain by Clements on a keeper highlighted the drive, but it was Andy Huff who kept it alive. Huff picked up two yards on a fourth-and-two from the 11, and four plays later, fought his way 
Notre Dame. .... 3 3 0 10--16 Michigan Sill:t . ..0000--0 
ND-FG ':'homas 47. 
ND-FG Thomas 24. 
ND-FG Thomas 26. 
ND-HuCf 8 run (Thomas llifk) 
A-77,R2R. 

TEAM ST.4.TISTICS 


