
On The Inside 
The resu Its of congressional races page 3 The HPC met.last night . • . page 7 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Wednesday, November 8, 1972
Vol. VII, No. 44 



ixon ta 
es e ection 

by Max Frankel 
<C> New York Times 
New York, Nov. 7-Richard Milhous Nixon won re­
election by a huge majority today, perhaps the largest 
ever given a president. 
Nixon scored a stunning personal triumph in all 
sections of the country, sweeping New York and most 
other bastions of Democratic strength.. 
He was gathering more than 60 per cent of the 
nation's ballots and more than 500 electoral votes. He 
lost only Massachusetts and the District of Columbia 
with decisive returns from everywhere except Min­
nesota, Alaska and Hawaii. 
The victory was reminiscent of the landslide 
triumphs of Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1936 and Lyndon 
B. Johnson in 1964, although it would fall just short of their record proportions. 
Despite this drubbing of Sen. George Stanley McGovern, the Democratic challenger, the voters split their tickets in record numbers to leave the Democrats in control of both houses of Congress and a majority of the nations's governorships. Nixon thus became the first two-term president to face an opposition Congress at both inaugurals. 
Some of the apathy and distaste for both candidates that had been recorded in pre-election surveys ap­peared confirmed in the size of the turnout. 
The number of voters who went to the polls appeared to be unusually low, despite jams at many polling places. Projections indicated a total vote of 74 or 75 million out of a voting-age population of 139.6 million, or only about 53 per cent. If accurate, that would be the lowest proportion since 51.4 per cent in 1948. The percentage had been over 60 per cent in every election since then. . 
The President seemed certain, however, to claim a clear mandate for his policies of gradual disen~agement from Vietnam, continued strong spendmg on defense, opposition to busing to integrate the schools and a slowdown in f-ederal spending for social programs--the issues which he had stressed through the campaign. 
Personal Vindication Achieved 
The 59-year-old Nixon--who will be 60 before inauguration on Jan. 20--could also claim a resounding personal vindication against the strong charges of corruption brought against him personally by the opposition. By coincidence thegreatesttriumph of his 26 years in national politics came on the tenth an­niversary of his defeat for Governor of California-the night he told newsmen they would not have Nixon to kick around anymore. 

McGovern, 50, conceded defeat before midnight in the East with a telegram of support for the President if he leads the nation to peace abroad and justice at home. The South Dakotan took credit for helping to push the administration nearer to peace in Indochina and assured his cheering supporters that their defeat would bear fruit for years to come. 
The President responded in a brief address from the White House, expressing appreciation to his supporters and respect for the supporters of McGovern, whose name he pronounced for the first time in months. He promised rapid progress toward peace and prosperity. 
.Nixon c~rried i~to office again his running mate, V1ce President Sp1rto Theodore Agnew, who will now be regarded as a formidable candidate for the 
Richard M. Nixon: wins re-election by landslide vote. 
Republican Presidential nomination four hears next. His opponent, Robert Sargent Shriver Jr., has left many with the impression that he, too, will seek to lead his party. Both will celebrate birthdays on Thursday-­Agnew his 54th, Shriver his 57th. 
No Suspense 
Unlike four years ago, when he became the 37th President by the slenderest of margins, Nixon did not suffer even a moments's supense last night. As predicted by the public opinion polls, he gathered three votes or more for every two for his opponent. 
Indeed, in state after state, Nixon's margin was remarkably dose to the combinE-d total \~.:on by him and the third-party candidate, George C. Wallace, in 1968. Had Wallace not been eliminated from contention this year by a crippling bullet, the 1972 contest would have been much closer. 
But in the clear field against McGovern, the President swept almost everything in sight. Projec­tions based on early returns showed his getting bet­ween 55 and 60 per cent in the cities, 70 per cent in suburbs and nearly 80 per cent in rural regions. 
Nixon's margins of victory in the states ranged from 52 per cent in Rhode Island and Wisconsin to an estimated75 per cent in Oklahoma. McGovern carried Massachusetts by a margin of 5 to 4 where Hubert Humphrey had triumphed by 2to 1 four years ago. The South Dakotan carried the District of Columbia and its black majority with a decisive 72 per cent. 
The President appeared to have improved his standing with all identifiable groups in the electorate, even blacks and Jews who still gave majorities to Democrats. The first-time young voters upon whom McGovern had counted throughout his long struggle for the nomination appeared to have divided their votes 50-50 • 
Loyalties Greatly Split 
The bonds of party loyalty were shattered in every part of the country. The defections of Democrats from New York to California and overwhelmingly in the once solidly Democratic south were so great that the computers projecting early returns for the television networks had no difficulty marking state after state in the Nixon column. 
The total turnout of voters was difficult to judge. To 
the naked eye, the voters were streaming out in large 
numbers all day. but the national broadcasting com­
pany's computers estimated at midnight that no more 
than 75 million ballots had been cast. That would be an 
extremely low turnout, well below the 60.7 per cent of 
eligible voters in 1968. 
The unanimous verdict of the opinion polls and 
political analysts had deprived the campaign of much 
of the customary suspense. Many voters were found to 
have lost interest in the race, in part because they felt 
sure of the outcome, often because they felt no en­
thusiasm for either candidate. 
Yet the contest was fiercely fought. 
It was by far the most lavishly financed Presidential 
campaign, with Nixon's forces spending nearly $50 
million and McGovern's at least $25 million. The 
President was the beneficiary of many huge individual 
contributions including one of one million dollars. 
Mc~vern CC?mpensated for the loss of many 
traditional bit Democratic contributions with mail 
solicitations that evoked an estim~ted 650,000 in­dividual responses. 
No Soft Charges 
And the charges exchanged by the two parites were not lacking in bite. 
Nixon set an idealistic tone at the start, seeking "four more years" to complete what he called the works of peace in the world. But without mentioning his opponent by name, he accused him of wishing to "stain the honor" of the nation by settling for "surrender" in Vietnam and proposing a fatal weakening of the country's defenses. 
McGovern's lofty appeal was that America "come home" to the ideals of the past, home from foreign adventure and back to a religious concern for the poor. But he combined this with bitter attacks upon the President, accusing him of barbaric tactics in In­dochina, of corruption and big-business favoritism and deception of the voters. 
Contrast in Style 
The fundamental contast between the contenders lay in their style of campaigning,clearly reflecting their own agreement with the conventional finding that Nixon was far in front from the outset. 
The President pleaded the press of business at the White House and left most of the stump-running to Vice President Agnew and dozens of other stand-ins. lie held only one news conferenceduring the campaign, ventured intoonlya few well-prepared urban parades and topped a series of radio speeches with only one long television speech. 
McGovern, by contrast, kept criss-crossing the country, seeking crowds and enthusiasm and money and concentratin_g his energies on the most populous states with the large blocs of elctoral votes. He and his running mate, Sargent Shriver, made a daily pitch for free time on television news shows and combined rally appearances· with a heavy use of purchased television time. 
With the outcome so widely taken for granted, the principal question on election night turned on the size of Nixon's majority and the question of how many other Republicans, particularly candidates for the Senate, he could pull along to victory. 
Nixon was ambivalent throughout the 1972 campaign about whether to seek the largest possible mandate for himself .or whether to risk offending some Democratic voters by supporting Republican 1candidates for Congress. For the most part, he stressed his own race, making only token appearances in the closing weeks in states where Republican Senate candidates had complained of the lack of help. 
Senate "Within Reach, ''House Not 
The President yielded to the calculation of his strategists that the Senate might be within reach, but that the House was not. At the same time, he appeared to believe that with a huge popular vote and the ideological support of many southern and conservative D~mocrats he would be able to work almost as well with an opposition Congress as one whose leadership and committees were in the control of Republicans. 
Nixon had drawn much criticism for the partisan vigor with which he tried to capture control of Congress in 1970. In his own cause this year, he 
(continued on page 6) 


George S. McGovern: Concedes election before midnight. 

was the scene yesterday at the voting. 

Wednesday, November B, 1972
the observer 


warld briefs 
<cl 1972 New York Times 
Saigon--Communist agents in South Vietnam have quietly contacted several members of the non-Communist opposition to the Thieu Government, apparently in preparation for a cease-fire and the subsequent political struggle, according to opposition sources in the South Vietnamese capital. The sources expressed fear that the con­tacts can only benefit the Communist National Liberation Front, since there have been no corresponding overtures to the opposition from the Thieu Government. 
London-The wage-price freeze came to Britain, and in London the first full day of the special three-month effort to control inflation brought complaints and confusion. But despite hundreds of telephone calls to government offices, a spot check of London shops showed no pattern of price rises, ·and consumer complaints seemed to center on exempt grocery items such as meat, fruit, vegetables and fish. 
Washington-Militant Indians agreed Tuesday night to evacuate the Bureau of Indians Affairs building that they have held for six days. They agreed after accepting a program for dealing with Indian grievances and proposals that was offered by White House aides. 

12: 15--seminar,growing old in a sterile environment" by dr. morris pollar, room 109, lobund laboratory, galvin life center 
7, 9 &11--film, "the best of genesis", engineering auditorium, $1.00 
7: 00--spanish tutorial, regina hall lobby 
7:00meeting,  amateur  radio  club,  clubhouse  
behind holy cross  
7: 30--meeting,  philosophers  circle,  stapleton  
lounge, lemans halls  

8: 00--lecture, transcendental meditation, rm. 105 O'shaughnessy 


Ackerman lists traffic problems 
by Pete McHugh Staff Reporter 

Dr. Robert Ackermen, Director of Student Activities, and chairman of last year's Traffic Advisory Board said yesterday that the suggestion for speed bumps on old Juniper Road faileddue to"some problem with snow removal." 
Despite his committee's decision, he said, "I would really favor the idea of speed bumps." However, he stated that there are a "lot of other things to be resolved first." 
Among the problems to be resolved is the appointment of this year's board members. As of 
November 7,  Ackerman had  not  
been  informed  of  any  ap­ 
pointments.  When  and  if  thP  

committee is a~pomted, he cited 
Steve 'frozn 

the possbility of bicycle paths and 
stricter bicycle laws as immediate 
topics for discussion. 
Referring to the daily bicycle 
traffic on the university's sidewalks, Ackerman felt there is a definite need for some provisions to eliminate the problems which result from the mixture of bicycle 
and pedestrian traffic. 
He also expressed concern over 
the frequent use of the sidewalks 
by automobiles. He said. "Every 
weekend tourists can't tell the 
difference between sidewalks and 
the road." 
When asked his opinion of a all­
pedestrian campus, he stated, "I 
would favor it here. I think it is 
something we should go to." He 
stressed the parking problem 
which would come with a change. 
He called the additional parking 
Cleveland' 


appointed ND rep to SMC 
Steve Paspek was today named Notre Dame's representative to St. Mary's College by R. Calhoun Kersten, N. D. student body president. 
Kersten appointed Paspek, "in hopes that his presence on the St. Mary's campus will induce more SMC girls to come over to Notre Dame. Watching Steve in the dining hall I was impressed with his ability to approach girls he never saw before and strike up a conversation without trepidation." 
Steve "From Cleveland" Paspek, is a freshman from Cleveland Ohio. and a resident of Sorin Hall. In accepting the SMC representative position, Paspek said, "If a chicken and one half can lay an egg and one half in a day and one half. How long would it take a grasshopper with a wooden leg to kick all of the seeds out of a dill pickle." 
Student body president, R Calhoun Kersten said of Ste\'. "From Cleveland" Paspek "Ht> 
has the personality and flair demanded by the job." 
Said Kersten, "Paspek will start his job this week." 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the L1niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Sub­scriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester ( 14 per year) from The Ob­server, L<ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
THE BALTIC SOCIETY OF NOTRE DAME presents 

Wednesday, Nov. 8 Engineering Aud. 7-9-II pm ONLY A BUCK ONE NIGHT ONLY 
lots which would be needed a 
"mammoth problem." But he 
stated that the university is "stuck 
by economic necessity" with the 
present system. He concluded by 
saying that there is a "great deal 
of work for the Traffic Board, if it 1.ver gets organized." 
Erratum 
Yesterday's Observer contained a typographical error which mistakenly intimated that Drs. Harold Weiss, Peter Smith, Don 
Miller, Eugene Campanale, and Sr. Mere ita Lynch would be candidates for tenure next year. They received tenure after last W('ekend's Board of Regents mPeting. 


r BOAC
> 
AFRICA -$316 EUROPE -$2oo: INDIA-$450 
ALL ROUNDTRIPS! Ca II Cfarke 283-8810 tor details 

NOTRE DAME -SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
presents 


SUMMER AND SMOKE 
Tennessee William's beautifully fragile drama of frustrated love 
Washington Hall 
Notre Dame campus Nov. 10, 11, 16, 11, 18 at 8:30pm Students $1.50 Phone Reservations 284-4176 


,,~ 1'ete" 
says 
When it comes to pianos. we will do just about anything. If we can't do it, we willtryto find someone who does. 

Call me now for an appointment 674-9335 

u.s. 20 Osceola, lndiono 
Quality Tuning and Repairing 
Great. REALLY GreatI 




NEW WIDE WALE KNIT CORDS ... 
Here's the best of all ...the comfort and freedom of knit with the rugged good looks of a wide wale corduroy; they go beyond or­dinary "cords" because they won't shrink! In Blue, Burgundy, Brown or Tan. 
$15 


NO SERVICE OR 
-

CARRYING CHARGE 
Your Campus Shop account is unique ... there's never an extra service or carrying charge added. 

See our entire collection of Haggar slacks ... designed with Notre Dame in mind. 
Wednesday, Novmeber 8, 1972 the observer 
Cozn112ittee nalDes task forces 
COUP to study acade~nic areas 
committee are such questions as professor of aero-space and Associates, Inc.; William metallurgical epgineering; Clif­
by Bill Betz what kind of commitment should a mechanical engineering, and his Loughran, senior in the Depart­ford Losh, senior in the Depart­
Staff Reporter university have to such things as a task force will deal with ment of English; Miss Patricia ment of Accountancy; Dr. James 
universitv press and university educational physical facilities. O'Hara, student in the Law School; Massey, professor of electrical 
Notre Dame's newly formed computers. Dashbash stressed that his Dr. Ray Powell, professor of ac­engineering; Paul Moo, professor Priorities Committee under the McMillin also pointed out the subcommittee was not only con­countancy; Ambrose Richardson, of Law; Frank Palopoli, graduate chairmanship of Provost Fr. role research plays in keeping a cerned with the academicbuildings professor of architecture; Brother student in the Department of James Burtchaell, has assigned professor "scholarly alive" in his on campus but also with athletic Kiernan Ryan, C.S.C., assistant Government and International four task forces to tackle the field and therefore effective as a and residential ones, and also the vice president for business affairs. Studies; Dr. Ellen Ryan, assistant questions of research instruction, teacher. His investigators will grounds, the space, and the en­professor of psychology; Dr. physical facilities, academic study the relationship this type of vironment that is Notre Dame in The third task force is academic Ernest Sandeen, professor of 
disciplines and enrollment. The research has to independent total. disciplines, headed by Dr. Timothy English; Dr. Paul Weinstein, four subcommittees will in­research, which doesn't involve, O'Meara, professor of professor of biology.
The task force on physical

vestigate these areas in terms of for the most part, material ap­mathematics. Generally, an
facilities will investigate who sets The task force on enrollment,
how well they fulfill the needs of a plicable to the majority of his academic discipline is defined as a
the criteria for the existing which greatly depends on the
modern institution of learning. classroom activities. broad area of study, such as
buildings and whether they are findings of the other three forces
English, Physics or Biology;
Members of the task force for fulfilling that purpose. For has nothing to report at this date.
Fr. Ernan McMullin, head Of the research and instruction are Rev. however, within these general
example, the main enginereing
task force on research and in­Ernan McMullin, professor of areas there are more specific Members of the task force for
building was built in 1931, and may 
struction, will investigate the philosophy, chairman; Rev. Paul disciplines such as Shakespeare, enrollment are Rev. David 
not be as effective and functional
relationship of teaching and Beichner, C.S.C., professor of Nuclear Physics and Geneti~s. Burrell, C.S.C., associate 
now as it was in 1931'?
research on the university cam­professor of theology and
English; Dr. Robert Gordon, vice In addition tothis inquiry into the The task force on academic

pus. This subcommittee will president for advanced studies; philosophy, chairman; Howard
possibility of out-dated facilities, disciplines will investigate some of
confront the question of what Dr. Robert Hentz, faculty fellow in Bathon, senior in Arts and Letters
the committee will also investigate these more specific disciplines
emphasis should be placed on each the Radiation Laboratory; and Department of Chemical 
ways that a physical structure can within the larger departments.
area. "Is research being Kenneth Jameson, assistant Engineering; Leo Corbaci, dean of 
aid students in reaching maximum They will test areas in the major
displaced or is research too professor of economics; Sister administration; Carl Ellison,
effectiveness in their area of study. departments for strengths and
heavily stressed'?" is one question. senior in the Department of
Madonna Kolbenschlag, instructor weaknesses.

In addition to this question of English; Miss Julienne Emperic,
in English; Dr. Jerome Novotny, Members of the task force for The task force has contacted
emphasis, this task force will look graduate student in the Depart­
professor of aerospace and physical facilities are Dr. James department heads and will conduct 
at the financial side of research in ment of English; John Goldrick,
mechanical engineering; Dr. Louis Daschbach, associate professor of their investigation in conjunction
the academic setting. Research Pierce, professor of chemistry; aerospace and mechanical director of admissions; Daniel
with them.
has traditionally brought money to O'Brien, alumnus of Notre Dame,
Dr. Arthur Rubel, professor of engineering, chairman; Rev. 
the university, but with the Members of the task force for stockbroker with Roney and
sociology and anthropology; Dr. James Flanigan, C.S.C., associate 
tighting economic situation, academic disciplines are Dr. 0. Company; Dr. Julian Samora,
Marshall Smelser, professor of professor of art; James W. Frick,
research may stop bringing in Timothy O'Meara, professor of professor of sociology and an­
history. vice president for public relations 
money and start draining the As a physical correlative to the and development; Dr. Yusaku mathematics, chairman; Rev. thropology; Dr. Thomas Shaffer, university, forcing it to subsidize research and instructional in­Furuhashi, professor of James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C., Dean of the Law School; Dr. Albin the research with student tuitions. vestigations of McMullin's com­marketing; Herman Hundere, provost; Dr. Nicholas Piore, Szewczyk, professor of aerospace 
Other issues before this sub-associate professor of and mechanical engineering. 
mittee, Dr. James Dashbach, resident architect of Ellerbe 
Democrats retain their hold on Congress 
by R. W. Apple Jr. '(C) New York Times 
New York, Nov. 7--The Democratic Party withstood the Nixon landslide today to retain control of both Houses of Congress. 
With voters in all parts of the nation splitting their tickets in unprecedented numbers, the Democrats brought off a series of startling upsets in the Senate contest to gain at least one seat, just as they did in the face of the Eisenhower sweep of 1956. 
The Democrats captured previously Republican seats in five states--Delaware, Iowa, Kentucky, Maine and South Dakota. Those pickups more than offset Republican gains in two South­Western states, Oklahoma and New Mexico, and two Southern states, Virginia and North Carolina. 
Three races remained in doubt this morning: Alaska, Colorado and Nebraska. All were held by the Republicans in the last Congress and a turnover appeared a strong possiblity only in Colorado, where Se1,1. Gordon ABott trailed. 
The figures for the House were far less complete, but the Republicans were not making the gains they needed to take control. It appeared that they would pick up somewhere in the neighborhood of a dozen seats; they had already gained seven. 
At present, the Senate lineup is 54 Democrats, 45 Republicans and one Independent who votes with the Democrats. In the House it is 225 Democrats, 177 Republicans and three vacancies. 
Nixon's coattails proved relatively short this year, as they had in 1968. In state after state, he swept ·to massive victories while Republican Senate candidates were defeated. Nor was the President able· to give much aid to House nominees. 
Such Democratic Reps. as Romano T. Mazzoli, in Kentucky, Ella T. Grasso in Connecticut, Henry Helstoski in New Jersey and John Brademas in Indiana--all considered vulnerable to a Nixon landslide--were re-elected handily. 
The Republican pickups were scattered. They won a new seat in Florida (but the Democrats won two others), a seat in Virginia, a seat in Connecticut (where they ousted Rep. JohnS. Monagan) and a seat in Indi·ana, where the Rev. William L. Hudnut, a Presbyterian minister, defeated Rep. Andrew Jacobs in a redrawn district. 
Among other incumbents who were beaten were: Rep. John G. Dow, D.-N..Y., William R. An­derson, D.-Tenn., who backed the Berrigan Brothers; Earle Cabell, D.-Texas, and Abner Mikva, D.­Ill., forced into a new district by redistricting. 
Reapportionment was a major facor in other shifts. 
As usual, states and districts wherethere were no incumbents experienced the great change. Only one incubment Democrat was beaten for the Senate--William B. Spong Jr. in Virginia. 
But four incumbent Republicans went down to defeat: J. Cabel Boggs of Delaware, upset by a 29­year-old county Councilman, Joseph R. Biden Jr.; Jack R. Miller of Iowa; Gordon Allot of Colorado, beaten by Floyd K. Haskell, a Republican who turned Democrat to oppose the war; and Margaret Chase Smith of Maine, the Senate's only woman, whose 74 years were a major factor in her defeat by Rep. William D. 

Athaway. 
Perhaps the most dramatic example of the cross-tide at work on Tuesday came in Iowa, a traditionally Republican state that gave Nixon a traditionally heavy majority this year. But in the Senate race, Sen. ,Jack Miller, a relatively colorless moderate who had seved two terms, was beaten by Dick Clark, a 43-year-old for­mer aide to reprsentative John Culver. 
Ironically, Clark, who had been given no chance, ran only because Culver decided at the last minute that Miller could not be beaten. 
In Kentucky, Nixon was unable to help former Gov. Louie B. Nunn, who was attemtpting to hold the seat being vacated by the retiring Sen. John Sherman Cooper, a 
Republican. State Senator Walter 
<Dee) Huddleston won there. 
The Republican gains were scored by former Gov. Dewey Bartlett over Rep. Ed Edmondson in Oklahoma, for the seat now held by Sen. Fred Harris, and by Pete Domenici over Jack Daniels in New Mexico, for the seat now held by Senator ClintonP. Anderson. 
Others were made by Rep. 
William L. Scott, who defeated Spong in Virginia, and by Jesse Helsm, an ultraconservative television newscastenvhobeat Rep. Nick Galifianakis in North Carolina. 
New Democratic faces included Rep. James Abourezk, who won in South Dakota. 
Democratic incumbents re­elected included Senators John J. Sparkman of Alabama, John L. McClellan of Arkansas, Walter F. Mondale of Minnesota, James 0. Eastland of Mississippi, Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island (in what had been considered a possible Republican pickup) and Jennings Randolph of West Virginia. Democratic seats were held by non-incumbents of Georgia and J. Bennet Johnson Jr. of Louisiana. 
Republicans incumbents re­elected included Charles H. Percy of Illinois, James B. Pearson of Kansas, Edward W. Brooke of Massachusetts, Robert P. Griffin of Michigan (who had been con­sidered in jeopardy), Clifford P. Case of New Jersey, Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, Howard H. Baker Jr. of Tennessee, John Tower of Texas, and Clifford 
(continued on page 7) 

Attention Observer News Staff: 
IMPORTANT BUSINESS MEETING 7:00pm Thursday Nov. 9, Lafortune 2-D 
An important meeting for all reporters and day editors (old or new) 


All interested people invited. 
Dpinian



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Dan Thornton 
Stay Home America 
Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
dan kar:~avsek 
Wednesday, November 8, 1972 
I wanted to hear it from Walter Cronkite. There's something about getting bad news from him that, well, just doesn't make it seem as bad. I've always been able to take strange solace in the fact that no rna tter how upsetting a day's news might be, ..Cronkite would always re-appear on the television screen 24 hours later to report more of the


Nixon 63% 
same. Hence, while concerned, I have never really been afraid for our country. For regardless of what happened on any given day, I've always been convinced that America would somehow survive, if only to watch Cronkite the following night. 
Last night, I wanted Walter Cronkite to tell me that George 

McGovern 37% 
McGovern was not going to be the 38th president of the United States. In this way I sought to reassure myself that America would somehow survive four more years of Richard Nixon. After all, wouldn't we all still be here in 1976, getting bad news from Walter Cronkite like before? After last night I fear that the answer to that question is "no", and for this reason I am afraid for America for the first time in my
No, this is not the dawning of the 
life. We may all be here in 1976, but I fear that we won't be watching Walter Cronkite. 

age of aquarius. 
John Abowd An t"xplanation 
Let me explain. The problem is not with Walter. To the best of my knowledge, he doesn't have terminal beri-beri, nor does he plan to retire and join Chet Huntley in Big Sky Country. The problem is with 
~----·IIIIIIIHHHIHIHIIHII---IIIIIHRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1111f' 1 111111111111111111111111111111111111111• us. I'm afraid that as a result of this election, those of us who sup­
promise with the word of God! If she 1s responsible for "filling her ported Senator McGovern may become cynical about our political it's necessary for you to leave bed." This means that she must system and turn so apathetic that we won't even bother to watch everything and become a small personally find a replacement for Cronkite any more. parish priest to get back in touch the vacancy she will create by 
• more clearly with the word of God, leaving; shP cannot depend on an I object to this pessimistic attitude for one basic reason: George then I would respect you more incoming transfer to take her McGovern was not "defeated" yesterday, he merely received fewer there than as University place. Presently, no requests from votes than President Nixon. This distinction involves much more than 

Letters.. 
Editor: President, Chairman, Advisor, etc. in-coming transfers for on-campus mere semantics, for in a very real sense, Senator McGovern in 1972

I'm in favor of Fr. Hesburgh's of a million different "prestigidous housing have come through the accomplished what he had set out to do when he began his campaign. 

resignation from his civil rights 

ortanizations." Housing Office. He called for America to come home. To the extent that our countrypost. He has so many com­
The caption on Tuesday's Ob-Mr. Betz is assuming toomuch in has done that in this election year, George Me Govern was suc­mittments and endeavors that he 
server went "Hesburgh hints as writing that the off-campus policy cessful in his campaign.
reminds me of the Platte River; a resignation of Civil Rights Post." which will be followed this year

mile wide and an inch deep! 

As far as I am concerned you are "represents a change from the off­Inspite of Fr. Hesburgh's Father Hesburgh, a priest, and campus policy stated in the St.
tremendous energy, intelligence 

first a priest. The American people Mary's student handbook." The Has Amt"rica come home ?
and dt..'<lication to the problems of are buying your kind of com-policy is exactly the same. It is the people he is o~viously confused. I promise. I won't! The Civil Rights interpretation of the requirement

say this because: He says the Who can doubt that America has indeed come home? The war in
post should be filled by someone to fill one's bed that may be
American people don't get excited VietNam is of course the most obvious example of our homecoming.
who won't compromise with causing some confusion and which 
anymore .... The American people After four years and 20,000 American lives, it took the candidacy of
Christian principles no matter how in turn may have befuddled Mr.
have become a bunch of sheep. Senator McGovern to convince a Machiavellian politician like Richard 
unpopular he or she may be. Betz. The SMC Student Residence 
They are dead in their moral ac· Nixon that the American people wanted peace and were willing to vote
Manual does not clarify the extent 
tivities. What we need now are for it. Had McGovern not galvanized public opposition to the war,
of a student's responsibility to fill
Paul Blum
people who are sensitive to in­there would have been no pressure on the Cold Warrior to negotiate
her bed. The Coilege is officially
1127 Notre Dame Ave.
justive, immorality, inhumanity ... delineating this responsibiliyt with the North Vietnamese.­
South Bend, Indiana as 
How can he criticize us when he as involving a personal one-to-one
Dept. of Grad. Ed. Senator McGovern's success in bringing America home cannot be
a priest and president of a exchange: a student who wants to limited to one issue, however. In his campaign he succeeded in getting university condones and harbors a move off campus for second our country to reassess its priorities. During the past two years he has ROTC program here. In an effort o-c housing semester after having occupied a brought to the public's attention many domestic problems that hadto run a first rate university, he bed in one of the dorms must seek been largely ignored in the past. Questions about income distribution compromises with his convictions Editor: out someone who desires to move unnecessary . ~nempl?yment, defense spending, corporate ta~
as a christian. Why of course the into campus, i.e., an off-campus
I would like to amend the im­loop~oles_, pohtlcal spymg, etc. will not simply disappear now that the 
American people are insensitive. student who desires to return to
plications of Bill Betz's article of election 1s over. When solutions to these pressing problems are
They have been driven into a residence status. St. Mary's will
October 27th on the off-campus eventually found, it will be because McGovern exposed them in the
"dull" state by the compromises therefore allow any eligible
and rationalizations of very im­housing policy at SMC. The policy, first place.
student, who does find a personal 
portant matters by very strong as reiterated in the St. Mary's 
replacement to move off campus
Student Residence Manual, states
authority figures. this year if she applies by
that a student must be 21, or a McGovern's success
Fr. Hesburgh also stated that "a December 18th.
junior or senior to be eligible to
serviceman who went A.W.O.L. to It should be noted that last year
Canada or Sweden should work out move off campus (those under 21 several students were permitted to George McGovern's real success in bringing America home cannot his remaining service time as a must have parental permission). move off campus at the mid­be confined to the issues alone. In the course of his campaign he conscientious objector would in a Students who apply in the spring academic year point since the literally brought our whole political process home-to the people. hospital or service organization." may live off-campus for the College was operating at slightly McGovern came within one step of the White House not because of big He says this only within minutes of following year as long as they meet over its residence capacity. This political contributions, but rather as a result of the efforts of millions saying that anyone who stood up these requirements and as long as procedure represented an ex­of grass roots volunteers across this nation. In this way, he returned a against it (the Viet War) should be they have not committed them­ception to the off-campus housing sense of power to the people. This power need not be surrendered now given a medal." How can he be so selves to occupying a room on policy. This year SMC will adhere that the election is over. It can and will be re-channelled to~ard defensive and compromising? ' I campus for the next year. to the policy as stated in the implementing the goals that the campaign merely introduced. Thus, can only speculate that he has to However, if a student has signed a student handbook. It is therefore even though Senator McGovern was not elected yesterday, his try for remain popular and alterna~e room agreement contract card in absurd for Mr. Betz to attribute a the presidency was surely not in vain. 
April for the ensuing year, she has 
service is a popular <but com­declaration of no off-campus
promising) motion. committed herself to occupying So let us smile, and touch each other today. And let us be thankful 
permission on the part of St.
that room for the entire academic 
I ask Fr. Hesburgh; who is Mary's.
year. If she desires to move off
passing the buck? If you want to be (Mrs.) Donna Ayres
campus after the first semester,
a priest, be a priest. Don't eom-Housing Coordinator 
daanesbury 

HOW CRN YOV SIIY 
fH,qr, B.P.? 5JieS 1l<Y!NG 10 Rc!KH Of/T ltJ Y~t/, If/IN! IF YW'Re ..50 Sfllft-UJW '1H~T 
YOU'O t£111/E H£1< OLII3R.. SOH£TH!I'IG /IS 5/U)I /15 1/IEN :t: F£&t­50teRY POl? 
. you/1 

t~at in 1972 George McGovern brought America home. We owe it to h1m and to ourselves to stay here. 

the observer 
Nite Editor: Jack  
Frischkorn  
Ass't Nite Editor:  
Sue  Prendergast  
Layout: Albert D'Antonio & Marlene Zloza  Sports Editor: Urankar  N i te Stan  

Pictures: Jerome Phillips 
Nite Controller: Howard Halle 

Editorials printed in The Observer· reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the 
opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editoria I comment. 



Wednesday, November 8, 1972 the observer 
•

iean shepherd --a force 1n modern comedy 
Remember the time that the Daphne Bigelow of your high school class gave one minute's eartime to your impassioned plea for a date--the one you spent four years strengthening your tongue for--politely declined and walked away with the guy that reminded you vaguely of John _Lindsay? Remember the way your mom always wore a Chinese red chenile bathrobe--every day-­for twenty years? Remember the way it was to be a little kid--waiting breathlessly for the day you'd be able to do all the great things that grownups wouldn't let you-­before you grew up and have yet to do any of it anyway? 
If you've forgotten, Jean Shepherd remembers. Or, if you haven't forgotten because none of it ever happend to you, Jean Shepherd still remembers, and will tell you about it until you believe it did. Jean Shepherd's titles include humorist, short­story writer, tv host, philosophor, story­teller. and voice of a six-times weekly 45­minute radio program originating in New York City where, he says, he fills the air space "like a painter works on canvas, with big spaces, color--imagine chunks of silence about to be molded, kneaded and there I am in front of a microphone." 
His program is now heard in 40 other cities besides "The Big Apple" New York and his loyal fans are said to number near a million. Among east coast college audiences--especially in the New York area­-Shepherd cults have evolved ubiquitously through the years. I myself have been a loyal fan since junior high school days, with only the deepest admiration for his ability to tell stories. One of his most salient talents is the rare knack of spicing a tale ever so delicately with the sort of suggestion that would make Edith Bunker blush if she-unly knew what he was talking about. <And I'm not just talking about sex, either.) 
His humor isn't broad--it's often subtle 
and personal--but I think the genius of his 
stories lies in the way he allows each 
listener to interpret and identify with them 
as if the experiences he relates are just the 
ones that you alone have always known. 
Many of his funniest stores center around 
his youth in Hammond, Indiana, (but 
Hammond has no reason to laugh.) He'll 
talk about his childhood friends, Flick 
Bruner, Schwartz, Farkas and others, 
desrbing with--what impresses me as-­
graceful detail, masterpieces of metaphor, 
and infinities of irony, their ill-fated at­
tempts to achieve the unachievable in a 
world If frustrating roller-haired mothers, 
moustachioed old lady geography teachers, 
saidstic football coaches, unempathetic 
employers, and heedless gods. 
An idea of Shep's talent for description 
can be gleaned from his classic recollection 
of his winters in the Indiana hinterlands (an 
experience we can all identify with) as a 
recent "Wall Street Journal" recorded it: 
So then Mousey started. First of all, he put his ear up close to that wooden leg, to find out exactly where the noise indicated a mouse was at work. Then he whispered a little at that place, and he hummed a little. His song was full of squeaks and Lim­burger smells and hints of cellars made snug for the winter ... He puckered into a whistle that told of fields always warm with the sun, where nests could be built in the tall, sweet grass, and three times a day there were lunches of timothy seed served by mama mice. or their very attractive daughters. A cat wasn't ever allowed in those fields except to have its tail pulled, and its whiskers tweaked, and to be generally made a fool of. Then Mousey made flute noises. He sounded like an organ note advertising a church-mouse residency, with free crumbs from digestible hymn­books. Then he whistled again ... and with only one second left a tiny squatter of a grey mouse pushed open a drawer, scampered down the unsociable wooden leg, and danced delightedly before them on the sand. <From "The Stowaway", Boys' Life, 1967-quoted mostly for its allusion to mice, and for the author's own narcissistic delight in being able to quote from himself.) 
We are these days advertising an opening traditions at all of mice or men, worth in the Keenan-Stanford chapel for a resident hanging onto. ' church mouse. All of the best churches have We are on this campus the heirs of a them. and even a few synagogues; and to be tradition that is twice as old as the most as poor as church mice is one of the com-ancient Christian creed, but we act as forts of religion offered by the Protestant though our reli~ion had been founded this ethic. Recently, when I mentioned to the morning. Popular liturgy becomes more 
children at Mass that the tenants of a and more detached from dogma, more and 
"Kids plodding through forty-five-mile­an-hour gales, tilting forward like tiny furred radiator ornaments, moving stiffly over the barren clattering ground ... only the faint glint of two eyes peering out of a mound of moving clothing told you that a kid was in the neighborhood ... (after his mother opened the front door) ... we would be launched, one after the other, my brother and I, like astronauts into the unfriendly Arctic space...It was make school or die! Scattered out over the icy waste around us could be seen other tiny befurred jots of wind-driven humanity. All painfully toiling toward the Warren G. Harding school, miles away over the tundra, waddling under the weight of frost-covered clothing like tiny 
frozen bowling balls with feet. An oc­

summer and smoke o 
of 
casional piteous whimper would be heard faintly, but was lost instantly in the sigh of the eternal wind." 
For what? "All of us were bound for geography lessons involving the exports of Peru... " 
But besides telling stories of his childhood, Shepherd discusses his world­wide travels, hapless days in the army and the philosophy of politics, city living (he resides in a Greenwich Village brownstone where the streets are "knee-deep in cigar butts and beer cans"), television com­mercials, pop entertainment, youthful dreams, and adult realities. 
He also enjoys railing his loyal audience to spread his fame far and wide. Testimony 
student commune called Marvin Gardens were searching their Park Place pantry for a resident rodent for the Urchins' Chapel, one little girl suggested that if they couldn't find a church mouse, perhaps a church jerbal would do. I told her I though church jerbals were untheological, something like the ordination of women. Thinking about it later, I decided that even if the Pope were to admit jerbals into the church-mouse ministry, I would still opt for the mice. I am even traditional enough to want a Roman mouse, imported if possible, from the sacristies of the Vatican. But church mice, like priests, are a vanishing breed, and I am sure the Pope is feeling the pinch like all the rest of us. Maybe, if vocations are plentiful there, Marvin Gardens could furnish the Life with the Pope as his church mouse would be a career worth having for any worthy Catholic rodent, provided it could have its evenings out, for in the papal courts it should not be the mice who are notable for their infallibility in matters of faith and morals. 
It is mere whimsy, or even silliness, for a priest to write at length of holding on to the tradition of church mice. The real fear is, if we keep on as we are going, we will have no 
Letters Ta A Lonely Ciad 
•
m1ce and men 


r•v. rabert t;~riffin 
more divorced from the Christian creeds. The result is a vague, sometimes vulgar, often sentimental kind of Mass as bad in its shapelessness as the worst religious poetry. 
<It is no accident that our best religious poets --lie Donne, Milton, Dante, Eliot -­wrote out of a solid, theological tradition that gives their work a tough intellectual center. Not for them are the glittering generalities of a line like, "It takes a heap of livin'-To make a house a home" -or whatever the horror of that line is). 
The counselling services are full of secular insights, which I assume to be God's holy truth. But nobody ever says whether these insights are related to, or substitutes for, the older insights of the religious tradition. One feels that it is happening more and more that priests are divorcing themselves from the tradition, with the result that they no longer speak with the authority of the tradition behind them. The traditional church thundered prohibitions 
against the use of SIX outside of mar:riage. here should be a recognitiOn .th~t . the 
The New Morality says the only absolute is the law of love, and so under the proper, loving circumstances, sex may legitimately occur outside marriage. Does the New Morality, then, offer a deeper insight into the Gospel teaching, going beyond the letter of the law into the heart of truth or has modern psychology rendered th~ Com­mandments obsolete as the tribal law of a society trving to preserve its own common good? 
I am not in favor of a religion whose every precept is imposed by an obedience that dilemma exists. Then I want the disctph~es to integrate themselves, so that the healmg of the church can begin. . 
In the meantime, ther~ are .elements m the tradition that seem Im~nshable, an.d all of them center on Chnst. B~t Hts tradition, alas, seems to say nothmg of church mice. In all the writings <?f the Fathers and Doctors of the Church, I fmd no one wbo teaches that t~~ ho~sin.g o~ church mice is a matter of dtvme t.nstitutJOn. 
Never mind, mice of Marvm Gardens, the Urchins' Chapel needs you anyway. 

cannot be questioned. I believe that every moral or religious act should be understood as far as possible in a human way. I even agree with the rebel who said, if God wants me to obey the ten commandments, why doesn't He tell me about it instead of Moses? 
But I also know I need the Church, even when I don't understand the reasons why. I need the Church to integrate its ancient traditions with the modem disciplines that minister to the needs of man. This must happen if I am to remain a Christian. This must happen unless I am to ignore the progress of my own century. . 
I think many of us on this campus are m a dilemma. I think the Church is being pulled apart, torn by the tug of truth fr~m a.ll directions. I don't want anyone readmg thts column to acdept or reject whether I have analyzed the dilemma correctly, because I am writing out of a sense of what. I am feeling rather than from any perceptions of myself as deep observer. I. J.ust want that to his success manifests itself on lavatory walls, subway doors, high school desks, etc. with the simple graffito: "Flick Lives." Flick is a childhood friend of Shep around whom a lot of the childhood stories revolve. "Flick Lives" is the watchword Shep exhorted all his listeners to inscribe everywhere, and they did, and still do. (Incidentally, the verbal sign of recognition among Shep fans if "Excelsior!" 
Besides doing his radio program, Shepherd also writes books of short stories like "In God We Trust, All Others Pay Cash," and his latest, "Wansda Hickey's Night of Golden Memories and Other Disasters." He has masterminded an educational network series entitled "Jean Shepherd's America"; he writes at least a few stories for "Playboy" each year; he has contributed a regular column to "Car and Driver Magazine" and pieces for the "National Lampoon." 
And, of course, he also appears on college campuses. His reception at Princeton has been especially enthusiastic, and he keeps going back for one appearance after another. His first Notre Dame performance is planned for Thursday, Nov.9-that's real soon--at 8 PM in the library Auditorium, and it's sponsored by the Student Union Academic Commission so it's free. 
I recommend without reservation that you take a two hour break from Emil, or whatever else you happen to be doing. Remember, this is your life. 


friday 
Three of the leading ladies 
in the upcoming production 
of the Notre Dame-Saint · Mary's Theatre production 
of SUMMER AND 
SMOKE. Pictured are 
Dt>bbie Tirsway, Mary 
Walsh and Maribeth Fencl. 
The production has been 
dirf'Ctl'd by Dr. Charles 
lll'imindinger and the show 
will run from November 10, 
11 Hi. 17 and 18 on the 
Washington Hall stagf' at 
X::UI p.m. 
6 

the observer Wednesday, November 8, 1972 
18 seats were up for grabs 
Dems make gains in gubernatorial races 
by John Herbers (C> New York Times 
New York, Nov. 7--Despite Richard Nixon's sweep of the country in the Presidential race, the Democratic party managed to retain or possibly improve its margin of control over the majority of the nation's 50 governorships. 
Of the 18 Governors' offices up 
for election, Democratic can­
didates won seven of them and 
were leading in four others. The 
Republican candidates won four 
~vernorsh!psand were leading in 
three others. 
Thus it was likely that the Democrats would come out of the election with a slight improvement over the 30 to 20 margin in glubernatorialoffices they had held 
before the elction. 
There were upsets for both 
parties. The results seemed to 
swing on local issues and per­
sonalities, and the only pattern 
emerging from them was an in­
dependence of the national tickets and national issues. 

One of the biggest upsets, however, occurred in Missouri, a Democratic stronghold, where the 33-year-old state auditor, a Republican, upset Edward L. Dowd, 54-year-old Attorney and fromer Federal Bureau of In­vestigation agent who ran as a law and order candidate. Bond will succeed retiring Gov. Warren E. Hearnes, .a Democrat. 
In West Virginia, John D. (Jay) Rockefeller IV, the 35-year-old 
Secretary  of  State  and  great  
grandson  of  the  world's  first  
billionaire,  apparently  was  

defeated by Gov. Arkch Moore, a Republican, who was seeking a second term, although the vote was close. A win for Rockefeller would have propelled him onto the national scene as a possible future Presidential contender. 
In Vermont, Thomas P. Salmon, former Democratic Minority leader, was the apparent winner in a close race over Luther F. Hackett, the Republican Nominee, in the race to succeed retiring Gov. 
Nixon out to vote early 
(continued from page 1) names of one or more minor party this year, he remained aloof and candidates. They were: 
serene to the end. The (American) Independent The President and Mrs. Nixon Party--John G. Schmitz for voted when the polls opened at 7 President and Thomas J. An­
A.M. today at schoolhouse near derson for Vice President (33 their villa at San Clemente, Calif., states). and then flew across the country to People's Party--Benjamin Spock await the returns at a private and Julius Hobson (10 states). dinner in the White House. Socialist Workers' Party-Linda 
Mr. and Mrs. McGovern voted in Jenness and Andrew Pulley. a church in the Senator's home Communist Party--Gus Hall and town of Mitchell, S.D., and then Jarvis Tyner. drove to Sioux Falls to await the Socialist Labor Party--Louis verdict. Fisher and Genevieve Gunderson. 
In many states, today's Liberatarian Party--John Presidential ballot also carried the Hospers and Theodore Nathan. 
Deane C. Davis, a Republican. 
In Arkansas, Democratic Gpov. Dale L. Bumpers, won a second term, easily defeating former State Welfare Commissioner Len 
E. Blaylock. And in Kansas, another Democratic incumbent, 
Gov. Robert Docking won a fourth term over the Republican leader in the Legislature, Morris Kay. 
Two other Democratic Gover­nors re-elected tonight were Calvin 
L. Rampton of Utah and Richard Kneip of South Dakota, who turned back challengers who had hoped to be swept into office on Nixon's coattails. 
But Republicans were winning in some states in which the in­cumbent Governor was retiting. In Indiana Dr. Otis Bowen, a 54-year­old physician, defeated former Governor Matthew E. Welch, a Democrat, to succeed Governor Edgar D. Whitcomb. In North 
Dakota Lt. Gov. Richard F. Larsen, 36 years old, a Republican, was leading Arthur A. Link to succeed retiring Governor William Guy. 
In Iowa, Republican Gov. Robert 
D. Ray won a third term against Paul Franzenburg, a former state Treaasurer, who had accused Ray of failure to reduce the burden of property tazes. 
Races in Illinois, New Ham­pkshire, Texas, Rhode Island, North Carolina and other states were in doubt several hours after the polls had closed. 
Overall, it appeared that the Governor's races were decided on local issues and personalities and 
had  little  relation  to  the  
Presidential  race  or  national  
issues.  

Most of the campaigns centered on the question of whether to lower or raise income andpropertytaxes. Across the country there was a 
Engineer shortage viewed 
by Bob Quakenbush Staff Reporter 
Current data and the latest projections, as reported in a Purdue University special report, strongly indicate that the demand for qualified engineering graduates has far outstripped the number of people available to fill such positions. 
In the Purdue report, released October 26, Prof. John C. Hancok, dean of Purdue University's School of Engineering, states, "Students who desire to apply science and technology toward the solution of problems besetting society, and who have the aptitude and the perserverance to tackle a rigorous curriculum, could not choose a better time than now to begin an engineering career." 
The report, backed by data and projections from the Engineers Joint Council, a national body of representatives from the professional engineering societies, observes that, "While layoffs due to the economy and priority shifts in national spending have created imbalances in certain fields and locations, the fact remains that virtually no Purdue engineering graduates of 1971 and 1972 are without suitable jobs." 
Purdue grants the nation's largest number of engineering degrees annually. 
The over-all rate of unem­

The decline in the numbers of college freshmen enrolling in engineering is causing some to worry. 
"Unemployment problems will not be solved by a continued decrease of new college freshmen into the academic pipeline," Hancock remarked. 
Sources within the University of Notre Dame agree that the Purdue report is well-founded 
Dean Joseph Hogan of the College of Engineering points out that the current demand for qualified engineering graduates is even greater than in 1970. 
Hogan reported that this year there was an increase of engineering intents at the fresh­man level within Notre Dame, which is in sharp contrast to the national trend, which show an average decrease of freshman engineers of some 11.5 percent this fall. 
According to Dean Hogan, the situation is so distressing that at least two major companies are considering plans to commence recruiting programs in Europe within the next two years. 
Hancok, in the Purdue report suggests similar measures to meet a demand that overreaches the number of graduates. 
"Looking ahead to 1980," the report says, "Hancok sees the need fo~· new engineers being filled by non-graduates, by utilizing with developed to fill the massive needs of our growing economy and and technology. He expressed the hope that "the Alumni associations and the Admissions Office come up with highly qualified high school students who are strongly directed toward engineering careers." In this way, Notre Dame would be better able to help fill this pressing need. 
strong protest movement against taxes, particularly the property ~ax that has been raised repeatedly m many areas to meet rising costs and demands for additonal ser­vices. 
At the same time, a number of states wer_e in need of new tax revenues if services were to be continued at the present level. 
This  conflict  resulted  in  bitter  
Gubernatorial  contest  in several  
states.  

The political careers of several candidates considered to be likely contenders on the national scene in the future hinged on today's Gubernatorial elections. These included John D. (Jay) Rockefeller 4th, the 35-year-old Secretary of State of VVest Virginia, who as the Democratic nominee, was seeking to oust Gov. Atch Moore, 49, from office in that state; and Daniel Walker, the 49­year-old Chicago lawyer, also a Democrat, who sought to unseat Illinois Gov. Richard B. Ogilvie. 
Nine of the 18 Governor's races were relatively open because in these the current Governors were . retiring, due either to defeat in the primaries or state law that forbids a Governor to succeed himself. 
Those nine states were Indiana, New Hampshire and Vermont, where the retiring Governors are Republicans; and Missouri, Montana, North Carolina, North Dakota, Rhode Island and Texas, where the departing Governors are Democrats. 
In Delaware, Illinois, Iowa, Washington and VVest Virginia Republican Governors were seeking re-election; in Arkansas, Kansas, South Dakota and Utah Democratic Governors were seeking a new term. 
lntemstecJ ir Graduate Study in 
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 
HOSPITAL & HEALTH SERVICES ADMINISTRATION 
See us November R. 9 K 10 at tlu• 1'/acement Bureau for information about our two-year Master's degree programs at the Cornell University 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 
Contnct yvu! ,nlacement c:ffi -e for exact times 


Student Union invites you to spend an evening with 
YES 
.s p e c i a I g u est--Lindisfarne Sat., Nov. 18 at 8:30 Tickets $5.50, 4.50, 2.75 on sale now at ACC Ticket Office (9-5) and Student Union Ticket Office ( 11:30-1:00, 3:-30-5:00) 
Hear the new Yes Album, "Close to the Edge," on WSND. 
-~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:~:~:;:~:~:::;:::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:~=~~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=:=~=~=~=~=~=~=~:~:;:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 



I A 1·1ttle I
I ~ 

II camal knowle~ge II 1 is a dangerous thing. 1 
» 

» 
So just be careful 
:::: how you use it. ::::
I ~~!~~~~~~i~~~~8~~!·h I 
ployment among engineers is only greater efficiency the available :::: Leather. On the :::: 3 percent, according to the report­supply of engineers, and by :;:; other hand, if you are :::: 
roughly one-half of the national breaking down jobs into positions across-the-board figure. The which technicians and other kinds 
~~l~ ~~r~~i~~· ~ia~hne~~end ~~~l 
report suggests on average of workers can perform." . . .... demand of 48,000 new engineers .Mr. Richard D. Willemin, ~~ll have a ball. Use j~j~ 
per year for the balance of the Dtrector of the Placement Bureau ..... English Leather Soap, ···· at Notre Dame, also affirmed the ::::: Shampoo, Shave Cream, :~:~
decade. ..••, .•..
validity of the Purdue report. He
The release quotes Richard ~::: After Shave, Deodorant, :::: 
-' Stewart, Purdue University remarked that the nation will 
::::: Talc ... the works. And who :~:~ 
Placement Service director, to the soon be extremely short of 
::::: knows, she may even ::::
effect that women and minority engineers at all educational levels, members are particularly in citing the fact that he had received teach you a little something.

il ~ 
demand in the field. "There is not three requests for Ph. D.'s alone in 
a day goes by that I'm not asked the last week. Mr. Willmenin felt ..». .N...
b N
for a black, a chicano or a woman that there are just not enough « ~ 
qualified personnel being ::~:. . . .. . ... .. .. ... . ... . .. ... .. .. . . . . ::::
engineer," according to Stewart. 

··=~=~=~~).=~=~~=~=~=~=~=~=~=~=========::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!·!················~-·-······················································
...................•·····•···············•···························································· 
Wednesday, November 8, 1972 the observer 
7 

HPC plans An Tostal vveekend 
by Jim Eder at St. Mary's the An Tostal budget recess. 
Sta H Reporter has been met. The Student Union Jeselnick also reminded the 
has agreed to also take part in the presidents that their proposals
The annual An Tostal weekend affair by sponsoring a free concert. regarding the $5,100 Student Life sponsored by the Hall Presidents Jeselnick urged each of the hall 1-"'und should be submitted to him Council will be held on April 26, 27 presidents to begin thinking of by next week. Each hall will be and 28. This announcement came special projects that they might allocated funds according to the last night from Steve Jaselnick, undertake. The council will begin cost and necessity of their intended executive coordinator of the HPC. to discuss An Tostal plans next projects. Each president should, 
The HPC had been short of funds month. The actual work assign­therefore, include with his for the festivities, but thanks to a ments for the festival will not be proposal a supporting argument contribution of $483 from students made until after the Christmas and a financial statement of both 
Chinese deploy missiles 
by William Beecher The missiles, the officials said, That brings to 19 the number of <C) New York Times have a range of about 3,500 miles, such harnded depots--for tactical 
carry a three-megaton warhead bombs and warheads for tactical Washington, Nov. 7--and are installed in launching sites missiles--that the Soviet Union has 
Administration officials said today comparable in their "hardness" built along the long, contested that there was now evidence that against attack to America's nine­border with China over the last five China had deployed a handful of year-old Titan-2 intercontinental years. 
strategic missiles capable of ballistic missile silos. "Many of our analysts felt that reaching Moscow. The officials reported that China once China deployed enough 1,000­achieves hardness in her launch mile missiles and nuclear-armed sites in two ways: some missiles TU-16 bombers to be able toStudy tours are are installed in underground destroy cities in Soviet Asia in th concrete-and-steeJ silos capable of event of attack, Russia was planned by SMC withstanding even a near miss, deterred," one ranking planner 
said.

and others are built into mountain Two international study tours are sides. "But some of us aren't o/J sure planned by Saint Mary's College The officials declined to reveal any longer. The Soviets have History Drpartment for the 1972-73 the nature of their evidence, but recently added another three Christmas vacation. Each group presumably it came from divisons along the border and built will leave the last week of reconnaissance satellites. five more nuclear storage bunkers. 
D<'cember, 1972, and return on the In addition to these 3,500 mile · Why does she continue to expend third week of January, 1973. One liquid fuel missiles, the officials so much effort and wealth on that college credit is earned by par­said China has deployed a total of region if she is not keeping open an ticipating in either trip and an a bout 20 other missiles of two option to make a preceptive additional credit may be earned by types: one with a range up to 1,000 strike?" writing a paper. Dr. Anthony miles, the other with a range up to Another analyst put it this way: Black, Professor of History at Saint 2,500 miles. "Most of my colleagues believe it's 
Mary's College, will conduct the Further, new launching facilities silly to even think in terms of a study tour of England, Scotland, are under construction for all three Soviet first strike. But I think the and Ireland. This tour is open to types of medium-range and in­next 18 months are the critical the MichiaM area's college and termediate-range missiles, they period. By that time, Peking 
university students and alumnae. said. should have 30 to 40 missiles that can strike Moscow and other
The itinerary will include cen­Most analysts regard those t<'rs of learning, art, and culture in developments as being of major major cities in European Russia 
the United Kingdom of Great importance in shaping the and by then a Soviet first strike Britain and Northern Ireland; relations between the Soviet Union really would be too dangerous~" 
,points of interest such as and China. They note that China Officials agree that probably the Stonehege, ancient castles, and now can target the capital of the principal reason the Soviet Union Stratford-on-Avon; and major Soviet Union with a few missiles, insisted on maintaining an an­
timissile defense around Moscow,eith.'s such as London, Canterbury, but they disagree over whether 

Edinburgh, and Dubljn. The tour this constitutes enough of in its negotiations with the United
a 

price is $669.00 retaliatory threat to deter the States on limitation of strategic Dr. Cyriac Pullapilly, Professor Russians from a possible first armaments, was to retain a of History at Saint Mary's College, strike. capability of defending against a 
possible Chinese missile attack.

will conduct the study tour of In­Those who tend to doubt it--and dia. This tour is open to the they appear to be in the minority-­The treaty signed by the U.S. and Michiana area's college and point out that the Soviet Union has the Soviet Union last May permits university students and alumnae recently completed construction of 100 antimissile missiles each and the general public. five new storage depots for tactical around Moscow and Washington, 
The tour of India will include nuclear weapons along its border and 100 defensive missiles around cPntE.'rs of Hindu learning, art, and with China. one I.C.B.M. complex in each 
nation.

culture: points of interest such as the Taj Mahal, Ajanta Cave paintings, and ancient Hindu and Buddhist monuments; and major 
PEP RALLY 

cities such as Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta,and Madras. The tour is 
THURSDAY NITE (Tomorrow)
('stimated at $1 ,000.00. Prices of both tours include all 
BEHIND FLANNER HALL 

traveling and living expenses 

featuring

round trip from New York, subject to some changes upon final 
COACHES STOCK& MURPHY

arrangement. Those who are interested may write or call Dr. 

KEN SCHLEZES & MIKE CREANEY 
Anthony Black or Dr. Cyriac 

CHEERLEADERS-NAKED KLUNKER
Pullapilly at Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Indiana, 46556 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT BEGINS AT 6 PM 

RALLY AT 7:15

Good Republican 
The Game's Away But

showing in South 
The Spirit's Still Here 

(continued from page 2) 
P. Hansen of Wyoming. 
The best Republican showing in the House came in the South, where Nixon's sweep and the 
Direct from Chicago's

straight-ticket tradition may have helped. In South Carolina for EARL of OLD TOWN example, Edward W. Young, the House District of Columbia Committee, who lost in a bitter primary contest. 



KELLER & WEBB
Sparkman's victory over Blount, who spent heavily in the hope of scoring an upset, resulted at least in part from his endorsement by spend a relaxing eveninq in Gov. George C. Wallace and from 
the L.lf ortune Ballroom with

the financial support of bankers 
Two ace omplished performers of

accross the country. Had Spark­man lost and the Democrats Contempor,lry American Folk Music retained control of the Senate, Sen. 
Saturday Nite 8:00 10:30-SOcentsadmission
William Proximire of Wisconsin, a 
from the social commission

Liberal, would have assumed the Chairmanship of the Senate Banking Committee. 
previous renovations and the require major renovations in many current plan. of the halls. The investigations are The distribution of the funds will to be carried out by Mike Thiel a 
third-year law student. ' be handled by a committee con­sisting of Jeselnick himself; HPC Chairman Butch Ward; Ron Paja, 
Vogel selected
president of Fisher; Kevin Grif­fith, president of Grace; and Fr. Donald Vogl, assistant professor Andrew Ciferni, rector of Holy of art at the University of Notre 
Cross Hall. 
Dame, has been selected to serve 
Butch Ward informed his fellow as a juror at the annual presidents that the Board of "Celebration of Christian Art" in 
Commissioners will hold an open Grand 'Rapids, Mich. Com­meeting tonight in Room 120 of the petition opened October 21 in the Hayes-Healy Center to discuss First United Methodist Church for 
their methods of allocating the the 162 entries in the current 
$50,000 that they have ap­exhibition. propriated for major hall A member of the Notre Dame renovations. Ward suggested that faculty since 1963, Vogl received 
anyone having complaints about degrees from Art Institute of the way the fund is being handled Chicago and the University of should attend the meeting. Wisconsin at Milwaukee. He 
Several of the presidents at last previously served as an art in­night's meeting were disturbed structor at Marygrove College and ... about a notice they recently in the Milwaukee school system.
received from the university's health department, announcing 
Active College Program Weekly activities & Bible study 
that monthly inspections of hall 
food-sales will soon begin. The 
Everyone Welcome
notice contained a number of 
Call: 272-2040 
regulations that were, according to 
272-2153 
the presidents, either "ridiculously 
283-7986 
trivial" or "impossible to fulfill." It requires, for example, that a 
Transportation Available 
Grace Baptist Church
thermometer be kept in every 
19637 DuBois
icebox. It also demands that the 
Sunday School ... 9:30 am
food-sales rooms be properly 
Morning Worship .. 10:30 am 
ventilated. a regulation that would 

CLASSIFIED ADS 
CRYPT SPECIAL SALE New Moody Blues · Seventh WANTED Sojourn and Peter Townsend's 
Who Came First: $3.35. Open 2-7, TYPISTS . needed to volunteer rlosed Tues. & Sunday. their help during the Red Cross Blood Drive Nov. 30 and Dec. 1. Must sell: Round trip & ad­Please call Pete, 3412. mission ticket to Air Force. 8906. 
K. c. Riders needed to Kansas Acoustic 270 amp, 271-272 City this weekend. Leave Thurs. cabinets. $1400-Best offer. 8029. nite or Friday. Call 4556. Must sell 1 student trip ticket to Need ride to Cincy for Air Force Game. Call Dan 1341. T11anksgiving, preferably Nov. 20. Call 6747. Will share expenses. 62 Ford, very good condition. 
Best offer. 234-9765 after 5 pm. Need one two or three general admission tickets for Miami NOTICES qarne. Call Larry at 3647. 
HELP the helpless unborn, with Need ride to Cincinnatti. Will time, money, or both. Right-to share expenses. Nov. 10, call Pat Life, Inc. 233-4295. 4833. 
Sports car club now being formed. Need ride to Baltimore for Call Phil 272-9914 evenings. Thanksgiving. Prefer to leave 11­17 if possible. Call Steve 6798. Weekday Community Study Club 
proudly announces the birth of its Wanted . ride to Detroit Friday, first second generation member, Nov. 10. Call Tony 1422. Alissa Mave Creach, on Oct. 29, 
1972. Celebration meeting Need ride to Boulder, Colo. or Wednesday night: 9:30. Call Denver this weekend. Will share Mike if you can come. 288-2887. driving & expenses. Call Steve 1435. Eurore Over Christmas! 
Fly with the best fly BOAC. $213 Need ride to Milwaukee for 3 on round trip! British Overseas Nov. 10, call 4409. Airways Corp. Call Clark 283-8810 for details. Need 3 qeneral admission tickets for Miami. Paul 8276. Attention NO Students! Need 
•noney for Thanksgiving NC'ed Thanksgiving ride to Omaha vacation? Borrow from (Weds. or Tues.) Wi II share Morrissey Loan Fund 11:15-12:15 C'xpenses and driving. Kevin 1329. Monday Friday. Basement of 
La Fortune. Need: 3qeneraladmission Miami tix, call Gil 6125. LOST AND FOLIN 0 
Need ride to Cincinnati, this week. Lost Glasses in black case. Call Rich 6789. Reward; call 6747. 
Riders needed to Philadelphia. Reward Keys lost Sal. between Leaving November 18. phone Cavanaugh and the bookstore.. 7803. 
Found: girl's '72 high school ring. IN Dl RE NEED of 4 Miami fix­Call 6815. call K. Graham . 234-6397 after 6. 
PERSONALS Need ride to Pittsburgh Nov. 10. Call 3261. Buon Compleanns, A.P.O.L.O.C.! 
Til inkir.g of you lots today & Need riders to Toledo Friday Nov. 111 issing you more. Lots of Love, 10. 3261. Cheenie 
MIAMI general ad. tix Any Happy Birthday, Moo: Wish I ilrnount wanted, any needed . were there; I'II see you at please help! Mike 7053. Tl1anksgiving. All my love, Roo Need 4 gen. ad. tix to Miami, call 6701. Dear Ted, do you have a hairy 
chest? Love, Perry 4 Miami G.A. tix: Ride home to Cleveland: John 8786. Dynamite is 
Pennies, footballs, leaves, and Need 2 or 4 tix for Miami. Call iaughs with S.N. 
•
8038. 
FOR SALE Deadline for all classified ads is 

1:00 pm the day before '69 VW, semi-automatic. AM-FM publication. All ads must be 
radio, excellent condition. $1450. 
placed in person and must be Call Steve after 5:00, 234-3389. 
prepaid. 

' 
I 
~ ~l, 
~ 
I; 'I I' 
I;_ 
I' 
~ 
' 
' 
~ 
~ 
I; 
'I
,, 
1:•) ,I -·
I' 
II li 
~ ~I. 
r l 
t: 
~ : 
if 
I 
8 

the observer 

Schlez·es -experience 
•


1n young secondary 
What is this year's Notre Dame linebackers have been cushioning defensive secondary that last off and have pretty decent speed." year's wasn't? Well, to begin with, 
"We had troubles against Navythe most inexperienced group in because of injuries. With boththe past seven or eight years. 
Steve Niehaus and TomThis season, Notre Dame has Freistroffer pass
been near or at the top of NCAA lost, our rush 
dropped off because of inex­
defensive passing statistics, 

perience. We've been playing aallowing a 98-yard average per little more zone, too," Schlezesgame. <The Irish led the nation adds of the secondary. "Reggieprior to the Navy game with a 68­(Barnett,) Mike <Townsend) andyard average). And about the only Tim (Rudnick, the extra back) allthing this Irish secondary has in have pretty good range, so we cancommon with last year's talented play a zone. I like a zone better-­
group is senior safety Ken 

you have more freedom to roamSchlezes. 
and we all have the speed to do it. I"When a team has players like 
think been a
w~ did last year--Clarence Ellis, our success has 
combination of the three thingsM1ke Crotty, Ralph Stepaniak," together," he concludes.
Schlezes explains, "people forget that there are talented people That little extra freedom in the 
backing them up. We had more zone Schlezes has at safety helped than three defensive backs last him come up with one of the big year, but the three that played individual plays of the season--his 

happened to be supers. That didn't game-saving interception in the mean there wasn't any talent fourth quarter against Michigan
behind them." 

State. 
The Irish actually played three­and-a-half defensive backs last "You certainly don't expect 
something like that to
season-Schlezes was the half-a­happen," back, switching with linebacker Schlezes admits, "but in a game
situation where the score is only 6-o Senior defensive back Ken SchlezesJim O'Malley in passing late in the game and the .other chance comes, you have to take Schlezes is originally from Sioux situations. 
"The switch definitely helped me team appears to be starting a advantage of it. When my man set City, Iowa, where he played drive, you know you have to do up to block and the passer was baseball, basketball and ran track
last year," Schlezes explains. "I something--force a fumble, in-rushed, I had the chance. You as well as football. Because of his got around 150 minutes of playing tercept a pass, make them turn the don't make a mistake in a situation size--6-3 and close to 200 pounds--­time and game experience that I 

ball over on downs. When the like that." coach Ara Parseghian considerswould not have gotten at all playing on the second team. It 
,,,,,,,~'j'r;~;,;,,,,,,,t,h;,,,,G~~,;;,,k,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ;~~~~:~~;~~~~r:;~~
gave me confidence in my game. It's not enough to just be a senior to lead. You have to have the ex­perience.'' ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:~:~:;:~:~:=::::::::::::::::::::::::;:~:::;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:.:•:·:·:·:·:·:·:;:·:·:·:··· ••••••••••••••••••::::· c a reer . ''It doesn't seem possible
(Home team in Bold Typ~)··· ··· ·....... ···-·-·····-·-·······-···· that there's only one more home
Schlezes admits he's surprised game left. As you go through theabout the Irish being close to the Dartmouth by 10 over Columbia Michigan by 21 over Iowa years, you take them for granted. 

top in pass defense, expecially in Yale by 7 over Pennsylvania Minnesota by 6 over Northwestern But by your senior year, you knowthe first six games. "When you Harvard by 6 over Princeton Illinois by 12 over Indiana you're never going to have it thislook back at the seniors we had last 

Cornell by 13 over Brown Oklahoma by 27 over Missouri good again."
year and all the All-Americans West Virginia by 33 over V.M.I. Nebraska by 20 over Iowa State Philosophically, Ken may have awe've had in the secondary," he V.P.I. by 10 over S. Carolina Colorado by 19 over Kansas point. But then, Notre Dame neversays, "it's a good feeling to say the Penn St. by 13 over N. Carolina St. Oklahoma St. by IOover Kansas St. thought it would have it so g(J<Od inleast. I really don't know exactly Syracuse by 7 over Army Texas by 15 over Baylor the defensive secondary, tither.

why we've been so successful. 

Navy_by 7 over Pittsburgh Texas Tech by 10 over T.C. U. 
There's talent involved, of course, 

Georgia Tech by 11 over B.C. Arkansas by 10 over Rice
and breaks. Some teams just 


IH fall sports
North Carolina by 20 over Virginia S.M.U. by 6 over Texas A&M
haven't passed much or haven't 

Maryland by 7 over Clemson Notre Dame by 13 over Air Force
passed well. But the statistics 

Duke by 27 over Wake Forest Houston by 35 over Colorado St.
are a testimony up to a certain 


near closing
Florida State by 20 over Tulsa Arizona St. by 24 over New Mexico 
point. They certainly mean 

Kentucky by 6 over Vanderbilt Arizona by 10 over Brigham Young 
something. I think there are by Tim Neuville
Florida by 3 over Georgia UCLA by 7 over Washington
several things involved. The front 

Alabama by 10 over L.S.U. Stanford by 7 over Washington St.
four has been containing the Basketball, hockey, squash, and
Ohio St. by 6 over Michigan St. Oregon by 10 over San Jose St.
quarterback and doing a good job handball signal the beginning of
Purdue by 13 over Wisconsin California by 6 over Oregon State
hurrying the passer. The. the winter sports season for In­terhall athletics, as the fall ac­
• tivities, slowed by the recent in­
clement weather conditions, are drawing to a close. 
Diminick leads award w1nners 
Halfback Gary Diminick topped Ellen McGuire claimed a 6-o, 6-o the award winners in the weekly 

victory over Becky Banasiak to ceremony at Monday afternoon's reach the finals of the women's 
practice. The junior scatback tennis tournament. Four players­

received the "Irish" award for his are left in the lower bracket. 

82-yard game-opening kickoff 

The Accountants, led by Joe return and overall inspired play. Butler and Hawk Belock, took the Diminick's return was the first winners' bracket championship in kickoff run back for a touchdown 
the sixteen-inch softball tour­
since Nick Eddy turned in a 96­nament, while M.W.D. claimed the yarder against Purdue in 1966. It losers' bracket title with a victory was also the first non-interception over the Hogs. M.W.D. now must return brought back for a score win two straight games in order to,since 1969 when senior Brian 

take the double elimination 
Lewallen tallied on a punt return tourney.
against Northwestern. 

The soccer tournament has been 
Offensive awards were given to narrowed to four teams, with Off­fullback Andy Huff and quar­Campus owning one of the spots in terback Tom Clements. Huff led the finals. Alumni will face the 

all Irish ground-gainers against win~er of the match between Holy the Navy with 121 yards, his best Cross and Breen-Phillips for the 

performance ever in a Notre Dame other spot in the finals. 
uniform. 

First round competition is Clements almost 'feached the completed in handball, with more 100-yard mark in rushing, gaining than 60 participants split into five 
95 yards in 13 carries and scoring different divisions. 
twice N.D.'s sophomore signal­

Basketball is in the works, with 
caller also hit on six of his nine the better-than-~00 game schedule passing attempts for 53 yards, and 
presently being drawn up. Action was honored for excellence in is expected to begin the week after directing the team to five of their Thanksgiving break. six touchdowns. Plans are being made for a The defense, however, was void student-faculty squash tour­
of honors, as they watched the nament, with the deadline for Middies score 23 points in the entries set at November 9. Par­second half and rack up a total of ticipants are asked to call 6100 to 
447 yards in total offense. Coach register. Ara Parseghian specifically cited The Interhall hockey organizing "assignment mistakes, alignment meeting will be held next Wed­mistakes, and a general failure to nesday night, November 15, at 8:30 react to the ball" as the keys to the p.m. in room 214 of the Computer poor showing. Center. Those unable to attend are 
Preparation team honors went to asked to inform the Interhall Of­sophomor,· quarterback Frank fice of their desire to play before Allocco on .Umse and junior November 16. Entry fee is $1.00 per linebacker Gary Lane on defense. player. 



Irish twelfth in both polls 
Notre Dame remained firm in the number twelve spot in this week's Associated Press and United Press International major college football rankings. Despite rolling to a 42-23 victory over Navy in Philadelphia's Veterans Stadium last weekend, the Irish were unable to gain any ground as all the higher-rated squads turned in victories. 
Southern California kept their lock on· the top slot in both polls with an impressive 44-3 shellacking of Washington State, as coach John McKay's Trojans took 67 of a possible 85 first place ballots between the two rankin~s. 
Nebraska dropped Alabama from the second position in the coaches' survey, thanks to a 33-10 triumph over Colorado. The Crimson Tide held fast in the writers' poll though, raising their record to s-o with a 58-14 trouncing of Mississippi State. 
Michigan and Ohio State again shared the fourth and fifth positions, while the U.P.I. ratings surprisingly raised Louisiana State. The Bayou Tigers, seventh in the coaches' rankings last week, moved up a notch to despite squeaking past stubborn Mississippi, 17-16. 
Oklahoma, a 20-6 winner over Iowa State, was thus lowered to seventh in the U.P.I. balloting, the same spot that they hold in the 
A.P. poll. UCLA and Texas are eighth and ninth, respectively, and Penn State and Auburn again share the 10 and 11 positions. 
Three games between nationally ranked clubs are in the spotlight this weekend, with the big one scheduled in Birmingham where Bear Bryant's 'Barna boys will face a major test in sixth-ranked L.S.U. 
The other two contests are both Big Eight ball games. 14th-rated Missouri tangles with Reisman Trophy candidate Greg Pruitt and his Oklahoma Sooners in Norman while once-beaten Nebrask~ travels to Ames to battle scrappy Iowa State. 
The rankings: 
AP poll 
The Top Twenty. with hrst·place votrs m partnthest's. season rt•fords and "total oomts. Points tabulatt•d on bti'SIS of 26-1!!·1&.14·1:!·1~9·H·7·6-5--l-3-2·1: 
I. Southern Callfornia (40) 9-0. . . . . 978 '! Alabama (3) S.O. .H2l 
3. :'\ebraska (51 7-1 . . . . . .. . .. .. i97 4 !t1 ich1gan ( 1) 8.0 .. . . . . . .. .. .. .. 70!! 5 Ohio State (I) i·O . . . tiOO &. Louisiana State 7-0 ... :5~4 i Oklahoma &-I . . . .. . . . . . . . . -D!S 8 l!CLA S.l ..... , .................3!!1 
9. 
Tl";.;as &-I . . .. . . .. . . .. .. . . . 30!1 

10. 
Penn State i·l . . . . . ... . . . . . . 304 ll·.\ubum7-l. . :..... ........... 2'!5 1:? \'otrr Dame &-I. . . . . . . . . . . . . .2'!1 13 Tennt>sser ~2...... .. .. . .. ...... 165 14 ~hssouri 5-3 . .. .. . . . .. .. . .. .. . 6.'i 15 Texas Tech 7·1 .. . .. . . . . . . . . 50 16. Colorado 6-3 ................... 411 li Iowa State 5-2 .. . . . . . . . . . . 45 18 \orth Carolina &-I . . ............ 15 


19. Anzona State S-2... . . . . . . .. .. . 5 :!0 (lie) Stanford 5-3 . . .. . . . . .. .. . . 3 Yah.•5-I .... .............. .. 3 
Others rec~.>ivmg \"otes. listed alpha· bt'l1cally: Air Foret'. .-\rkansas. Ba·•tor. :\f1ss•ssippi. !llorth Carolina State. Washmgton. 


UPI poll 
Tbt> l!mt~d Prt>ss InternatiOnal top maJor college football teams with f1rst 

placc.>  votes  and  won-lost  records  m  
parentheses:  
Points  

I. Southern Calif. (27) (9.0) . 342 %. Nebraska (6) (7·1) . . .. . . 284 3. Alabama (2) (R-0) . 280 
4. OhiO State (7.0) .. ,.. . .. 245 
5. 
Mich1gan (s.G) . . . .. . . . . . .. 226 

6. 
LouiSiana State (7-0) . . .. 177 

7. 
Oklahoma (S.l) .. .. . . .liO 

8. 
UCLA (S.I) . .. ... . . . .. . !fj 


I. Teus (S.l) . . . .. . . .. . 60 10 Auburn (7·1) . . . . . . 31 11 Penn St.lte (7·1) .. . . . . .. . . . 26 1!. Sotre Dame (6-1). .. .. . . . .. . 19 
13. Tennt>ssee (5-2) .. . .. . . .. . . . 4 
14. lOW¥ State (}I} . .. . .. . . . . .. .. . 3 IS Ttllt6 Tech (7tl) . . . . . l .H. (tlf) Nwtlt Carolina C'-1).... . 1 lt. f1'rtl Co&ondlt Wl .. .. .. . . . .. .. I 

' ,
1;, 








