
On The Inside 
SLC interviews... pg. 4 and 5 LaFortune story... pg. 7 


serving the notre dame 

Observer sponsers ND chess tournament j 
Vol. VII No. 13 
by Dean Mayors Observer Staff Reporter 
Lloyd All~n. current chairman of the local Re­elect the President campaign, opened the St. Joseph County Nixon headquarters last night by sounding a note of "cautious optimism." He acknowledged that President Nixon currently holds a large lead in the polls but hastened to add that much more work must be done to elect the "entire Republican team." 
Allen, former Mayor of South Bend, officially opened the Nixon Headquarters in downtown South Bend, before approximately one hundred fifty people. The event, featured speeches by Republican Congressional candidate Don Newman and Andrew Nickle, Chairman of the local Young Voters for the Pres.ident organization. 
Allen cited Nixon's accomplishments in the areas of Vietnam, the economy, and welfare reform. He praised the President for "having done more than any other man in recent history to make a major thrust toward world peace." 
"a clear choice" 
U.S. Congressional candidate Don Newman made a late appearance, but his extemporaneous remarks were clearly the highlight of the evening. Newman asserted that for the first time the voters of Indiana have a "clear choice" between him and Democratic Congressman John Brademas. Newman refrained from attacking Brademas directly, however, and referred only to the "McGovern-Brademas team" in his remarks. 
Newman gave his support to President Nixon's stand on the Vietnam war. He also voiced his agreement with Nixon's anti-bussing stand, and his assertion that "busing of school children is evil" drew a particularly enthusiastic response from the gathering. 
Newman closed by admitting that he possessed neither the organization nor the funds to rival those of the Brademas campaign, but he assured the gathering that his "persistence" would lead him to victory. 
YVP chairman Andrew Nickle opened his remarks by reading a telegram from President Nixon which congratulated local Republicans on the opening of their headquarters. Nickle, a Notre Dame law student and former member of Nixon's White House staff, told the gathering that the President has "returned a sense of dignity" to the White House through his concern for Americans as "individuals." 
concem lor the young 
Nickle also indicated Nixon's concern for young people by calling attention to the President's per­formance on the "issues which concern young America-the war, the draft, and the eighteen-year­old vote." 
Republican officials had hoped that Guber­
natorial nominee Dr. Otis Bowen would attend the 
opening of the headquarters, but the physician­
politician had a previous committment. Pete 
Klappenspeit, an aide to Bowen, represented the 
candidate and forecast that both Nixon and Bowen 
would win their respective races in November. 
Is there a Bobby Fischer lurking deep in the corners of Keenan Hall? Or how about a Boris Spaasky playing his heart out in the basement of Farley? Well, they'll all get a chance to appear at the first Observer chess tournament, October 2-8. 
The tournament is open to all students and faculty at Notre Dame-St. Mary's. The structure of the tourney will be an eight-match Swiss round. One 1round will be played daily Monday through Saturday nights, while the tournament will con­clude with two rounds on Sunday. 
Each night the rounds will begin at 7:00. All forfeits must be announced to the tournament directors prior to 7:00. 
A l dollar entry fee will be charged of all entrants competing for the cash prize and trophy that will be awarded to the winner. The presentation of the awards will be made Sunday night after the final round. 
Those chess-players who are interested in playing, but not interested in competing for the 
Lloyd Allen, former South Bend Mayor, urged support of the "entire Republican team" at the official opening of the St. Joseph County Nixon Headquarters. 

The customary introduction of all of the local Republican candidates followed the speeches, and Chairman Allen called for all party members to work for their election as well. 
The program was marked by periodic cheering from approximately thirty high school students bedecked with "Nixon Now" buttons and straw hats. While they gave each speaker a standing 
...while some polls show McGovern gaining support 
by jack Rosenthal <Cl 1972 New York Times 
Washington, Sept. 25-Two new political polls reported today that Sen. George McGovern, the Democratic presidential nominee, had narrowed the massive lead for President Nixon found in previous surveys. There were differences of opinion between the poll-takers, however, as to the significance of the findings. 
One new survey, conducted by Louis Harris and associates, reported a Nixon lead of 59 to 31, a 28­point spread. This compared with a 34 point spread, 63 to 29, reported early this month. 
"Statistically," Harris said in an interview, "the change is significant. But politically, well, Nixon still has nearly a 2-to-1 lead." 
The other survey, conducted for McGovern, showed that he has cut President Nixon's lead to 22 percentage points and is thus well within the goal set by his campaign managers. 
This survey offered several gounds for optimism, according to spokesmen at a news conference held today. They said they took the unusual step of releasing their findings in an effort to counteract the effect of surveys, conducted earlier, showing a widening Nixon margin. 
The Harris survey findings were based on 1,668 in­person interviews conducted September 19 to 21. The 59-to-31 per cent finding included people who described themselves as leaning to one candidate or the other. 
The principal change found over the prior survey, Harris said, was a movement toward McGovern among·voters under the age of 30. 
prize can waive the 1 dollar fee. 

Registration for the tournament will be conducted everyday in the Observer office at the news desk. Registration will be open from 1:00 to 5:00 and from 
7:00 until 10:00 on Monday through Thursday. 1 Friday and Sunday afternoons registration will also be held. 
The deadline for registration is Sunday night at 
7:00. The draw for Monday's opening round will be printed in Monday's Observer. 
Any late entries will be accepted from 4 to 5:00 Monday afternoon, but a 1.50 late entrance fee will be charged. 
Any entries not competing for the prize can call in their entries to the -Observer at 8661 any afternoon. 
When chess players enter, they are being asked to supply a rating number (if they are United States Chess Federation members) or a rating of estimated strength. 
Can you be the Bobby Fischer of the Notre Dame ­SMC? Enter the Observer chess tournament and find out. 
. ovation, their most popular cheer was the slogan born at the Republican National Convention, "Four More Years." 
A small contingent of Notre Dame and St. Mary's students were in attendance, as were the co­chairmen of the Notre Dame-st. Mary's division of Young Voters for the President, Bruce and Jan Callner. 



Observer Chess Tournament 
Name___________ 
Address______________ 
Phone__________________ Playing for priz~e__yes_no USFC Membet .yes-no Ratins-----------­



October 2-8 
In the prior survey, they were for Nixon, 52 to 42. The new findings, Harris said, was 47 to 45 for the President. 
The McGovern camp found further grounds for encouragement in new evidence of a "tremendous volaqlity" in the electorate, according to one of it's spokesmen, Patrick Caddell who is head of Cam­bridge ~urvey Researcht Inc. He is also McGover;; 's chief public opinion survey analyst. 
Caddell cited figures indicating that fully one­third of the electorate had not yet finally settled on its presidential choice. This volatility, he said, gives McGovern a real chance in the November election. 
The new McGovern survey findings were : Nixon, 56 per cent; McGovern, 34; undecided, 10. This represents a drop from the findings of a McGovern survey made in July which showed a 17-point Nixon advantage. But the new findings represented a substantial gain, Caddell said, over the 34-point Nixon margin reported in public polls conducted in late August. 
The new McGovern findings were released at a news conference called after the New York Times and Time Magazine published the results of a 16­state survey conducted by Daniel Yankelovich, Inc., a leading social research concern. This found a 62­to-23 per cent Nixon lead. <Story page 3). 
The McGovern spokesman didnot ~xplicitly take issue with the Times'Yankelovich survey, drawn from interviews conducted between Aug. 25 and Sept. 12. But Caddell said that "the public forgets" that polls taken three or four weeks ago "are a snap~hot of that period," not of the present. 


the observer Tuesday, September 26, 1972 

SMC sponsors British tour 
by Maria Gallagher 

St. Mary's Editor A study tour covering England, Scotland, and Ireland will bed offered between semesters sponsored by the Saint Mary's History department. The tour, which will leave from New York on December '1:1 and return to South Bend on January 16, will visit London, Canterbury, Salisbury, Stratford-on-Avon, York, and Chester in England; Edinburgh, Durham, and Lin­disfarne in Scotland; and Dublin, Wexford, Cork, and Limerick in Ireland. Highlights of the tour include stops at Buckingham Palace, Westminster Abbey, Parliament, Stonehenge, the Tower of London, and Oxford University in England; and Blarney Castle, Trinity College, and the Kennedy. an­cestral home in Ireland. New Year's Eve will be spent in Trafalgar Square. Several af­ternoons and evenings will be free for personal shopping and sight­seeing. Passage from England to Ireland will be via a ferry across the Irish Sea to Dublin. Land, transportation will be via motorcar or bus, depending on the size of the group. The tour will conclud with a "a medieval banquet at Bunratty Castle in 14th Century style," according to the itinerary. 
comprehensive fee 
Comprehensive cost for the tour is $669.00, which covers all ex­penses, icnluding jet transporation via Irish International Airlines; superior tourist class hotels with two or three in a room ; three meals a day for the entire tour; admission fees to all points of interest; and all motor and sea 
Alcohol safety leader will speak today 
The director of the Kansas City Alcohol Safety Action Project, Robert F. Boos, will be oneof the principal speakers at a seminar planned by the Alcoholism Council, Inc. of St. Joseph County on Tuesday in the Center for Con­tinuing Education at the University of Notre Dame. His talk will be at 10:45 a.m. 
Boos participated in the planning for the federally funded $2.2 million Kansas City project, one of 35 in operation throughout the United States under the direction of the U.S. Department of Tran-1sportation through the National . Highway Safety Administration. and the Office of Alcohol Coun­termeasures. 
The project is an action program1 designed to lower the number d. fatalities and injuries in alcohol­related automobile accidents byl identifying and controlling the problem drinking driver who represents only two per cent of the drivers on the road, but who is responsible for more than half the alcoholl -related fatal automibile accidents. 
A recipient of degrees form Michigan State University and University of Kansas, Boos has·· served as city manager in1 
Laramie, Wyo. and Fort Collins, • 
one or two nights a .week?
Colo., and as assistant city manager in Las Vegas, Nev. and Wichita, Kan. He received a presidential appointment to the National Highway Safety Advisory Committee in 1967 and has server~ 
So Now You Know Where You're At 
as lecturer of Principles of Public Administration at the University of Nevada. 
The Notre Dame seminar will 

SHULAS 
take the place of the September meeting of the Alcoholism Council 
2802 U. S. 31 N. (In Michigan)
and is open to all interested par­ties. Sessions will begin at 10 a.m. 
616 683-4350
and conclude at 4:30p.m. 
transportation. Also included are tickets to one theatre, concert or ballet performance in London and one perperformance at the Abbey Theatre in Dublin. There will be no additional expenses other than those which are strictly personal. 
The tour is open to all students at Saint Mary'sCollege and the University of Notre Dame. One college credit is earned by par­ticipating in the trip and an ad­ditional credit may be earned by writing a paper. 

deposit required 
A $50.00 deposit is required to secure reservations. Final payment is due on or before December 1, 1972. In the event that 

world briefs 
<c> 1972 New York Times 
United Nations, N.Y .--The United States asked the United Nations to convene a meeting early next year to act on international terrorism. The meeting called for by the U.S. would have full powers to define and to set up the legal basis for taking forceful action to put an end to terrorism. · 
Washington--The House approved and sent to the White House an interim United States-Soviet agreement to freeze a major portion of their offensive nuclear arsenals for five years. The agreement would limit the number of offensive land-based and submarine-borne missiles possessed by the United States and the Soviet Union. 
Billings, Mont.--Sen. George McGovern charged that the Nixor administration was dominated by special interests in environments. and regulatory agencies. The Democratic presidential nominee told the Western States Water and Power Consumer Conference that "you would have to go back at least as far dS the administration of Warren 
G. Harding to find an administration so beholden to special interests and big business." 
Washington--The House Ways and Means Committee voted to give President Nixon unlimited authority to cut whatever government programs he chooses, between now and June 30, in order to keep total government spending for the fiscal year at no more than $250 billion. The Committee's action, if approved the entire Congress, would constitute the most sweeping delegation ever made to the President of Congress's constitutional authority to control government spending. 
an campus taday 
6: 30--meeting, McGovern organization, south shore station 
7:00--meeting, mecha, Ia fortune basement 
10:00-10:00--show, hi-fi, rathskeller, Ia fortuna 

at nd-•mc 
~~~~===:!!!!!!~~~!!!!!~BI~~~~~~=~!!!~ 
ANYTHING WRONG WITH: 
L1istening to a couple of fantastic bands?, 
Finding someone to dance to them with? 
Drinking anything you can think of? . Staying up late and missing Carson 
the tour is over-subscribed students will be accepted cording to the date of their deposit. 
Dr. Anthony Black, professor of history at Saint Mary's will escort the tour group through the British Isles. He emphasized that the tour will be flexible, and "no one will be forced to participate in any part ofthetourthat they don'twant to'' 
The average size fc.r such groups, according to Black, usually 10 to 12 persons, but may go as high as twenty. 
An organizational meeting anyone interested will be held October 9 at 7:00p.m. in Madeleva Hall (place to be specified later). Further information may obtained by contacting Dr. Black at his office (4948) or home (272­3726). 
Your average reading speed probably ranges between 150 and 300 words per minute. Graduates of the Reading Dynamics course read and study at least 3 to 6 times faster then that. And the average graduate of our course actually improves com­prehension over 10 per cent. 
Thousands of college students are Reading 
Dynamics graduates, including over 1,000 at Notre Dame, Indiana Universtiy, and Purdue. This is the same basic course that first received national recogniton when President John F. Kennedy invited Evelyn Wood to the White House to teach her system to top level staff personnel. Recently, President Nixon's staff took the Reading Dynamics 
Course. 
The best way to find out about the remarkable 
Reading Dynamics course is to come to a free 
Ml N 1-Lesson. At this you'll learn what It's like to be 
able to read and study 3 to 6 times faster. You Will see a short, enjoyable movie and have all your questions answered. 



ATTEND 
A Free Speed Reading Lesson 
Increase your reading speed 
50 to 100% on the spot. 
TODAY &TOMMORROW 
6 and 8 pm 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION 


NOTRE DAME AVENUE 

EVELYN WOOD READING DYNAMICS 


'Tuesday, September 4!6, 1972 the observer 
Catholics boycott Irish summit 
We are proud to contribute so little to the high cost of listening. 
by Bernard Weinraub <C> 1972NewYorkTimes 

Darlington, England, Sept. 25-A three-day conference on the political future of Northern Ireland opened here today in mood of gloom and anger. 
The talks, in a heavily guarded hilltop hotel outside this city in the 
north  of  England,  focused  on  
political  tactics  to  calm  the  
stricken  province  and  the  

disparate party policies in Ulster. 
But the absence of four of the seven political parties in Northern Ireland--including representatives of the Roman Catholic minority­sharply weakened, perhaps even doomed, the impact of the meeting. 
"The whole community is in the grip of fear, suspic ion and misunderstanding," said a joint statement by two of the par­ticipating groups, the moderate Alliance party and the Northern Ireland Labor Party. "How many more must die, lose their jobs or homes before(the four parties) are prepared to sit down and talk." 
William Whitelaw, Ulster's 
administrator, said after today's session: "It would obviously be more satisfying if all these parties had decided to come to the con­ference. But no one can deny that as result of this conference there is discussion and dialogue on the future of Northern Ireland. 
solution is 
discussion 

"I have always believed that if you talk about a situation quietly and determinedly you can do nothing but good," he said. "If you don't discuss problems you'll never solve them, and this is what we're attempting to do." 
At today's closed session at the Europa Lodge Hotel, discussions centered on numerous political questions facing the province. These ranged from the shape of the new regional assembly to replace the old Sotrmont Parliament-which Catholics rejected as unfair and one-sided--to the delicate problem of who controls Ulster's ~!)lice and security. 
Former Prime Minister Brian Faulkner, who heads the Unionist 
urged a return to a modified should remain linked with Britain. who are holding the talks in the tribunals to deal with suspected Sormont Parliament with control It was generally agreed that the hopes of working out some formula terrorists as a replacement for the of the police and security in the delicate question of unification between Catholic and Protestant controversial policy of interning 
hands of Ulster's Protestants. This with the Irish Republic to the South politicians. men without trial. 
was the rule from the formation of was ruled out unless the Protestant The party, which is the main The fourth group boycotting the Northern Ireland in 1921, to last majority in the north agrees to opposition group, has refused to talks is the Rev. Ian Paisley's March, when Britain took over the such a move. This is improbable take part in political discussions as militant Protestant Democratic 
province and all security since the Protestant majority m long as 241 suspected terrorists Unionist party. It is angered at responsibilities. the north, with two thirds of the remain the Longkesh internment Britain's refusal to order an of­populationfeared being swallowed camp. ficial inquiry into the killing of twolocal assembly up by the Irish Republic, where 95 Protestants by Britich soldiers 
per cent of the population is legal tribunals during a recent Belfast riot.

urged 

Roman Catholic. Whitelaw wanted the talks held
condemned

Both the Alliance and Labor Through today's conference, it outside London and Belfast for was the absence of the Social security reasons and, in what his
parties supported a move for a The Social Democratic and local assembly--with wide powers Democratic and Labor party that Labor party is joined in the boycott advisers termed, "an atmosphere to the Catholic minority--and all plainly annoyed the delegates as by two smaller opposition groups, of calm'' Whitelaw has made clear police and security firmly con­well as British officials. the Republican Labor Party and that the disussions are merely 
advisory. "It is the government's 

trolled by the London Government The boycott by the party-a the Nationalist Party. These three and out of the hands of Ulster powerful force in the Roman parties, representing the Catholic intentions, when we have heard the Protestants. Catholic districts of Northern political grouping, have con­views of the delegates at the 
Ireland--was an especially sharp conference, to draft firm proposals 
The three parties, however, demned Britain's decision last confirmed that Northern Ireland blow to the British Government, week to create special legal for the future," he said. 








Poll finds Nixon's war stand popular 
by Frank Lynn than in the first phase in mid­"Generally, who would you say is the two-thirds approval of his summer. the real peace candidate -foreign policies. 
<cl 1!172 New York Times New Jersey, 56-22 per cent a McGovern or Nixon'?" Only 4 of 10 tristate voters, for 
New York, Sept. 25 · The Viet­spread of 34 points, compared to 30 Nearly two thirds of the tristate example, think that Nixon can cut nam War, which was supposed to New Jersey, 56-22 per cent was a residents surveyed felt that the down crime or keep prices from be Sen. George McGovern's strong spread of 34 points for Nixon. President was doing everything he rising. suit politically, is actually working Connecticut, 57-18 per cent, a 39 could to end the war, although even Many of those who will vote for to the advantage of President per cent margfic, the same as the more predicted that the war would Nixon are not too happy with his Nixon in NewYork,New Jersey and over-all spread in a Yankelovich not be settle before the election. domestic policies, but their strong Connecticut, where much of the survey of 16 states with two-thirds About half of those surveyed in agreement with his foreing policy antiwar movement has been of the electoral vote. the tristate area, and even slightly and a widespread identification centered, according to a voter Four years ago, Nixon lost New more in New York, saw the war as with his conservative-moderate survey released today. York and Connecticut and barely the major issue facing the country political philosophy smooths over 
Thevoterviewofthe President's won New Jersey. today. · objections about specific domestic role in the war is a major reason If the survey results are Vietnam clearly outstripped the policies. for his massive 33 per cent lead reflected in the Nov. 7 election next important issue, the economy, About two-thirds of the voters in over McGovern in the second returns, the President would win which was cited by about a third of the tristate area consider them­phase of a tristate survey con­all three states by a landslide those polled. selves conservative and moderate ducted for the New York Tomes by comparable to the victories of Other issues that have and even more consider Nixon Daniel Yankelovich, Inc. President Johnson in 1964 and dominated recent state and local conservative or moderate. 
The findings on the war as an President Eisenhower in 1956. elections, such as law and order, The question was "Do you think issue in turn pointed up the fact The role of the Vietnam issue in taxes, drugs, racial problems and of yourself as a conservative, that foreign policy generally is the the President's strong showing in welfare trailed far behind, at about moderate, liberal or radical'?" President's strong suit. Typically, the survey is evident 15 per cent or less. In contrast, McGovern is rated for example in the tristate area Nixon, who has been attacked The tristate finding were vir­liberal or radical by more than half those who are supporting repeatedly by McGovern for tually identical to a 16-state sur­1those surveyed in the three states. McGovern by a 56-33 per cent tally, failing to end the war, was chosen vey's findings. 
The Observer is published daily

still feel that Nixon can deal more by about half of those surveyed as By margins of up to 6-1, tristate 
during the college semester ex­

effectively with Russia and China "the real peace candidate." Only voters felt that he would deal more 
cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions 

and would treat Israel more fairly a third felt that McGovern, who effectively with Russia and China, 
than his opponent. has probably been the leading '.treat Israel more fairly and 
may be purchased for $8 per

The survey showed Nixon spokesman for the antiwar cause maintain a strong defense posture. 
semester (14 per year J from The leading in each of the three states for the last four years, was the Nixon scores considerably lower 
Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 

in the following tallies: peace candidate. The remainder on his domestic policies, generally 
New York, 57-26per cent, a margin were not sure. winning acceptance of from a third 
' 

---------, 
~~ 

You may long for a stereo system that McDONALD takes more bread than you've got. BSR (USA) ltd. Or you may think it's impossible to 
Blauvelt, N.Y. 10913 

buy a good complete magnetic stereo I like mail. Send me 
system at an affordable price. Long 
your free color catalog. no more. It is possible. Th13 BSR McDonald RTS-30 gives you a 30 watt sensitive FM-AM stereo receiver, a BSR turntable (with base, dust cover Name and Shure magnetic cartridge), and a pair of acoustically matched speakers Street with good response. You can buy the RTS-30 for under $180. It's a lot 
Cityof sound for the money. The bread 
you save buys a lot of bread. 

the observer Tuesday, September 26, 1972 
New student SLC members emphasize issues 
-
by Jerry Bradley 
Observer Staff Reporter 

Newly elected Student Life Council . representatives Anthony Abowd, Frank Devine, and Fred Giuffrida emphasized that coresidential dormatories are the prime issue that the SLC should consider this year. 
All three also noted that the SLC could be a powerful body once it is redifined. 
Anthony Abowd 

Abowd, representative from District 4, believes the big problem that the SLC faced last year was that the body's recommendations did not carry enough weight. He concrete are the students going to 


feels that if this years SLC does it's respect the SLC as a legislative
homework and presents the Ad­force. 
ministration with well conceived 
and developed recommendations Frank Devine 
"something concrete can get 
done." 

He feels that over the year there Frank Devine, elected from has been a tremendous change in District 5, feels that this is the year the Administration's receptiveness when the SLC must take the to student issues. He noted that in initiative in dealing with the the past the Administration was campus issues. He feels that the solving problems after they Administration would like to see became a crisis. This year he'd the SLC take on more issues. He like to see the SLC,"handle issues pointed out that the Provost office before they become crises . " ends up handling the issues 
Abowd sees the most pressing because of the vacuum created byissue as being the coresidential no one else willing to take them on. debate. He feels the SLC must He sees the SLC as the body to research into the problem of relieve the Administration of many 
coresidential dorms and offer the 
Administration valuable solutions 
to all the implications. 

Finally Abowd believes that if the SLC were to fail this year the format should be scratched and a new body set up. 
Fred Giuffrida 
District 6 representitive Fred Giuffrida sees the SLC as presently being defined very loosely. He believes that the SLC must "define it's role in the university struc­ture." He added that the SLC has the potential to take on anything". 
Giuffrida agrees with Abowd that for the body to become well respected, it's members must do their job and present the Ad­ministration with responsible , ~\ recommendations. He also sees i f the main issue this year as being ' the coresidential question. Like . . . Abowd, he feels that only when the Gruffnda: S~C has potential to SLC comes up with something take on anythrng of the issues. 

Devine also believes that the SLC has got to stop thinking about legislating and get down to "the nuts and bolts things." First and foremost again is the coresidential issue. 
Devine feels that the SLC must present the Administration with reasonable accurate surveys. He thinks that he won't see coresidentialliving in this, his last year at the University, but that the SLC is obliged to lay the ground­work for later years. 
He is not satisfied with the university's continued plans for coeducation. He feels that the SLC must expand Notre Dame's commitment to coeducation. 
All three representatives see the need for the SLC to redefine itself. They believe that the SLC must take on more student issues with the biggest issue being the coresidential question. Finally, all three believe that this is the year that the SLC must prove itself to the Administration and the students. 

HOMECOMING CONCERT October 14 



THE GUESS WHO 
special Guest Star : WHITE TRASH 
All Chair Seats $5.50 
Bleachers $3.00 Tickets on sale Wednesday at Student Union office4-5PM and ACC ticket office (9-5) at Gate 10. 
Some Chicago tickets still on sale ...presented by the N.D. Student Union 





UNDERSEA WORLD OF. ATLANTIS 
To all haHs, clubs, and organizations: 
If your group is interested in constructing a booth for Mardi Gras next semester, please contact Craig Wernig at 3258 by Saturday, October 7. This deadline is necessary in order to facilitate floor space allocations and other preliminary operations. 
The Architecture Department has indicated its desire to assist organizations in their booth designs as part of their academic program. If your group wants this service please ca11 Ken Knevel at 8798 by October 7 also. We think that the service would be an invaluable aid to your gra.JJp. 
This year's theme is "Undersea World of Atlantis." For further information contact Craig Wernig. 


MARDI GRAS '73 



by Richard Toland Observer Staff Reporter 
Newly elected SLC student­representatives Floyd Kezele, Matt Cavanaugh and Jim Hunt are well in harmony in their hopes for the present role of the Student Life Council as an organ operating within the university framework. All three want the SLC to quickly redefine and expand its respon­sibilities and powers. 
Floyd Kezele, the only one of the three returning to the SLC after previous membership has many proposals for the council. Kezele, from the third district, feels that more thorough insight into questions can be achieved by decentralizing the work load into committees. The committees recommendations would then be submitted to the entire council and 
Kezele: shopping mall on campus 
5
Tuesday, September 26, 1972 the observer 
Kezele, Cavanaugh, Hunt desire effective SLC 
third to 50 percent of the battle is
then to the Board of Trustees. 
won."
He also is hopeful that the SLC 

Although disagreeing slightly in 
will be able to anticipate arising 

their methods of approach, all
problems rather than dealing with 

were convinced that the question of
something already out of hand. He 

coresidential dorms would be the
would, for example, look ahead to 

most controversial issue before the 
the possibility of Indiana lowering 

council this year. The new student
the drinking age by setting campus 

representatives thought that any
policy before the legislation would 

reasonable suggestion would be at
be enacted. "This would be done," said Kezele "on an ' if and when' basis." 
Kezele also hopes to expand the considerations of the SLc to in­clude certain business affairs. He envisions a shopping mall on campus run by outside firms operated in harmony with prearranged university policies. He called the bookstore a "monopoly on campus that should be investigated." His statement arose from discussing the ad­ministration's order for the Crypt, a record store on campus, to relocate. 
All three agree that to achieve effectiveness the support of the student body is imperative. Jim Hunt District One representative, point~d to the alternation of this semester's calendar as the clearest example of what the SLC is capable of when it has student 


support. Saying that "numbers Cavanaugh: combine efforts of 
talk" he insisted that "once the HPC.and SLC toward coresidential 
students become insistent 33 & a housmg IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHin1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
the issue staff: 
Night Editor: Daniel Barrett 

Assisstant Night Editor: Beth Hall 
Layout: Jerry 
Headlines: Ken Kampman 

Visitors: Steve, Dandy Don, Jan, Becca, Nancy 
dawntreader: mark niederkorn 

Typists: Dennis Anastasoff, Tom Modglin, Barb Norcross, John 
Flannigan 

IllUIWIIIIUIWUUIWI.UJII11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111IIIIUillllllllllllllllllllWIUIUIIllll 
least considered by the university 
administration, although they 
were doubtful of abrupt change in 
present university policy. 

None of the three felt that the administration's veto power was an insurmountable problem when good ideas were being cQnsidered. They all felt that much time and work would be necessary to research ideas into realistic proposals 
Matt Cavanaugh, elected to the Second District, suggested that the ideal manner of pursuing coresidential housing would be a combined effort of the SLC and the Hall President's Council. "The HPC is better equipped to deal with the issue since it is more closely involved with the questions that have to be raised." 
All three of the members ap­peared optimistic toward what the SLC is capable of achieving. They think of the council as a well rounded body able to probe into the problems of student life. They also agree that the alumni are quite powerful and consider them generally conservative toward 
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY CITIZENS FOR McGOVERN 
YOU ARE INVITED TO ATTEND; 
Time--8:00 p.m. Date--Tuesday (every week) Where--301 North Michigan 
(Old South Shore Station) change. "Once change has OC· curred and has proven itself, " Hunt said, "the alumni tend to accept the changes." 




HI Fl SHOW 
Tuesday, September 26th lOam to10pm 
At the Rathske/1-ar In the St·udent Center 
See the newest four channel equipment Bring your own records and tapes 
FREE TO ND/SMC STUDENTS 
Sponsored by Pioneer Electronics 

the observer Tuesday, September 26, 1972
6 
-

~­


~···. 
:.·. -~»··:: ·::.;... ·.. ·...... 
We invited afew friends for dinner and they helped clean up the Genesee River. 
With the aid of a few thousand pounds of microorga­nisms, we're helping to solve the water pollution problem in Rochester. Maybe the solution can help others. 
What we did was to combine two processes in a way that gives us one of the most efficient water-purifying sys­tems private industry has ever developed. 
One process is called "activated sludge," developed by man to accelerate nature's microorganism adsorption. What this means is that for the majority of wastes man can produce, there is an organism waiting somewhere that will happily assimilate it. And thrive on it. 
The breakthrough came when Kodak scientists found a way to combine the activated sludge process with a trickling filter process and optimized the combination. 
We tested our system in a pilot plant for five years. 
(At Kod~k, we were working on environmental improvement long before it made headlines.) And the pilot project worked so well, we built a ten-million-dollar plant that can purify 36-million gallons of water a day. 
Governor Rockefeller called this "the biggest volun­tary project undertaken by private industry in support of New York State's pure-water program." 
Why did we do it? Partly because we're in business to make a profit-and clean water is vital to our business. But in furthering our own needs, we have helped further society's. And our business depends on society. 
We hope our efforts to cope with water pollution will inspire others to do the same. And, we'd be happy to share our water-purifying information with them. We all need clean water. So we all have to work together. 

Kodak

.-
More than abusiness. 
• 
Tuesday, September 26, 1972 the observer 
7 
24 hr. Student Center studied 

Gorch skeptical of changes 
by David Rust Observer Staff Reporter 
Because of the growth of what he terms "The Modern Selfishness," LaFortune Student Center Manager Brother Francis Gorch is adamant against keeping LaFortune open 24 hours a day, a move that is seen by several groups on campus to be both desirable and possible. 
Bro. Gorch, LaFortune manager for eight years, believes it is neither. "I don't see any reason to keep this place open all night long," says Bro. Gorch. "There's no point in it. People on campus really retire around midnight most nights. Very few like to walk about the place after that time. Why, even the Observer staff (the Observer offices are located in LaFortune) is out of here by 1:00 a.m., I believe." 
Assumii'g that there is some kind of need or reason for main­taining NO's student center open the full day, Manager Gorch stands even more convinced of its near impossibility. 
"Theft and drt•'1ks, those are the big things," sdys LaFortune's manager. "The way it is now, it's outrageous. Things are always being stolen." 
Brother Gorch reports that 
thousands of dollars worth of 
furniture has been liften from the 
center during his eight-year 
tenure, even though LaFortune has 
never remained open longer than 
midnight or 12:30 on weekday-eve 
nights, and 1:30 Saturday and 
Sunday mornings. 

"To keep LaFortune open all 
night would require posting 
security guards in the building,and 
paying them," says Bro. Gorch,. 
"Students couldn't be resoonsible for its safety. Security for a place like this is far different from that required for a residence hall. We're a natural magnet for drunks and rifraff." 
He notes that LaFortune has trouble now with undesirables. "If they bother us before midnight, they certainly would be here with greater frequency after," says Bro. Gorch. 
To meet this threat, he belives, students would be incapable of providing the necessary force and authority and would have no power to arrest or threaten the maurauders. "They'd be scared, wouldn't be able to do anything," says Bro. Gorch. 
Expenses is the common denominator underlying all of what Bro. Gorch sees as im­pediments to the proposed 24-hour opening; losses incurred by in­creased theft and vandalism, costs in maintenance (especially electric light bills) and salaries for the security guards. It is these things which keep other schools' student centers closed, he con­tends. 
"I've not seen a single school whose student center remained open must after midnight," says Bro. Gorch. "I wonder just how many schools even keep theirs open past eleven." 
He doesn't see a real possibility 
in cooperation with student 
government on elimination of 
these problems, having had 
several bad experiences with 
student government people in the 
past. 
"Sure, it's very possible that 
they could help eliminate the theft, 
the costs," says Bro. Gorch. "but 

Stan Kenton slated for Thursday at IUSB 
in Southern California.

The Michiana Friends of Jazz Kenton was the first composer towill present the Stan Kenton or­attempt an amalgam of stringchestra in a combined Clinic and instruments and normal jazzConcert on Thursday, September groupings of brass and reeds in the 28 at the IUSB Auditorium. The "Innovations" orchestra of theClinic will be held at 2:00 p.m. for early 50's. In the 1960s he waslocal high school stage bands. 
active in the Los Angeles area withAt the Clinic, after a brief con­the Neophonic orchestra andcert, members of the Kenton or­starting his own organization,'Thechestra will break into seminar Creative World," to handle con­groups where they will lecture and certs, educational seminars, jazzwork with the young local in­publications, and distribution ofstrumentalists interested in records.

developing their skills in modern The Michiana Friends of Jazz, amusic. 
local non-profit organization ofThe clinics--first started by jazz fans, brings in the KentonKenton in 1959 at Indiana State and orchestra as one of a series ofMichigan State Universities-have programs designed

been widely acclaimed educational to make the 
best of modern music available in events across the country. 

the Michina area.

At 8: 30 that evening the Kenton they won't. I never have had any cooperation from them. They might keep the organization tight for as long as a week, but after that you couldn't depend on them." 
But Bro. Gorch's general 
disquiet comes not from matters of 
costs, salaries and lack of student 
dovernment cooperation, but from 
his belief that the wodl is suc­
cumbing to the "The Modern 
Selfishness"-"everybody wants to 
destroy everything to satisfy his 
own immature whim"--which 
attitude would render any kind of 
security or responsibility for 
LaFortune, opened 24 hours a day, 
impossible. 

"Everyone's got to destroy the 
good things these days," says the 
manager. "They've got to destroy 
everything beautiful, everything 
decent." He is not optimistic about 
guarding his building against the 
masses who,he believes, subscribe 
to this policy. 

In the end, as Bro. Gorch will 
readily admit, it is not he who would make the decision whether or not to open LaFortune for the full 24-hour period; that is the privilege of the Administration. · And, if there is a decision to open LaFortune on a full -<lay basis, Bro. 
Gorch does not believe he'll be the ' 
one to oversee its nighttime 
operation. 

<Part II tomorrow--Interview with Arthur Pears on a 24-hour Student Center.) 
Nat. Teacher 
exam held here Nov. 11 
The University of Notre Dame 
has been selected as one of the 
nationwide sites for the National 
Teacher Examinations on 
November 11. The tests are 
prepared and administered by 
Educational Testing Service of 
Princeton, N.J., and locally 
supervised by Dr. Peter P. 
Grande, assistant dean of the 
Freshman Year of Studies at Notre 
Dame. 

Almost 120,000 candidates for 
teaching positions took the 
examinations last year which are 
designed to assess cognitive 
knowledge and understanding in 
professional education, general 
education and subject-field 
specialization. 

Bulletins of information 
describing registration procedures 
and containing registration forms 
may be rec~ived by contacting 
Grande at Notre Dame or by 
writing the Educational Testing 
Service, Box 911, Princeton, N.J. 
08540 
NOTICES 
The Pitt Club is sponsoring a trip to the PITTSBURGH PIRATES­CINCINNATI REDS PLAYOFF ?n Saturday, October 7. All thos.~ mterested m attending the garr:l'& whether you're from Pittsburgh or Cincinnati. please call Jill)>li371 or Pat 8422 before Thurs~ay. 
STUDENT DRUG IN­FORMATION CENTER has been relocated. Come tq,.rm. 218 in the library for any dnfg counseling or info. Mon-Fri, 7-9-pm. Or call 232­8867. 
Those who have had a chance for four years and could not produce peace, should not be given another chance. Richard· Nixon, October 9, 1968 Santa Monica, California. 
Morrissey Loan Fund Open. 
Borrow up to $150. 11:15-12:15 Monday thru Friday. LaFortune 
Basement. 
Dependable mother of two will babysit in home. Riverside Manor, north of town. 272-1780. 
Bored over Christmas? Try Europe. An unbelievable $190 round trip. Call Clark 283-8810 for details. 
Make $10 or more Sat. morn. before game. Call 7819. 
FOR SALE 
Black Iite and posters for sale, good buy, Rob 8518. 
For Sale: '71 Honda CL350 ex­cellent condition & '12 year in­surance, $650, 1339. 
For Sale: one senior football ticket. Call 232-0151 after 9 p.m. Reasonable price. 
Porsche 66-912 5 spd, excellimt abarth, cibie, pirell is, rebuilt engine · $2850 or best offer. 233­1039 or 234-1563. 
For Sale: Couches $10-30, chairs $3-7.50. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. Free delivery to campus. Open 
Sunday. 
1969 blue Shelby GT-350, 33,000 miles, perfeCt condition, body work needed, call Ed . 287-3666, $950. 
CHEAPER THAN LEASING! NEW Westinghouse compact refrigerators. 4.4 cubic ft. capacity, factory warranty, WYNNE'S REFRIGERA.Orft>N Co. 234-0578. 
WANTED 
Needed: 4 tickets, Purdue game, general admission. Call 259-3297. 
DesperateI y need three (together l general admission Missouri tickets. Will meet any reasonable price, call 8446. 
Wanted: part-time legal secretaries to assist small law firm. General practice. Inquire: 920 South Bend Avenue; 234-3216. 
Need Purdue tickets, general admission or student. Call Frank 8825 or Ed 8463. 
Need any number Purdue tickets. Call Jim 287-0900. Leave message.. 

orchestra will appear in concert for the participating high school students and the general public. Tickets will be $5.00 each. 
Stan Kenton has been a popular band leader since the early 40s when he started his first orchestra 







KING KERSTEN
Citizens for 
McGovern to meet tonight 
The Saint Joseph County Citizens For McGovern invite the public to attend a fund raising dinner for the Senator, to be held Tuesday evening from 6:30 until 8:00P.M., 
Speaks tonightat the Democratic Headquarters, 301 N. Michigan St. in South Bend. 
The dinner will be a simple 
hamburger and french fries affair 
costing patrons only $1.25. 
No caterer has been hired by the 
Citizens for McGovern because all 
the work for the dinner will be 
provided by the volunteers 
working for the Senator in Saint 
Joseph County. 


WSND-AM at 11
The public is invited to attend and support the fund raiser, and everyone is also invited to stay after the dinner and attend the regular Tuesday night meeting of the Citizens for McGovern, which begins at 8 P.M. 
Please! mission 5312.  Need one generaL.. ad­Pittsburgh ticket. Call  
.  ~  
Wanted  -2  Missouri  general  

admission tickets -will pay your price. Maria 1715 or 5166. 
Need 4 general admission tickets for Missouri game. Name the price! Chris: 1002. 
Shah iahanpur Need student Purdue tickets, call 6920 after midnight. 
Wanted: motel rooms for Oct. 14. If you have reservations in a nearby motel for both nights of the Pitt. weekend, and you only want to use Friday's, call me! I need two double rooms for relatives on Oct. 14. Will gladly pay the price, John 8810. 
Wanted: 4 general admission tix tor Pitt. Call John 8810. 
Need 2 Michigan tix. Will pay higher prices. Call 6768. 

Need two Missouri tickets. Call Dick 234-4259. > 
Need 1-4 Purdue tickets, Call John 1598. 
Roommate needed -own bedroom · $45-mo-234-3592 evenings. Close to campus. 
Badly need 4 Missouri tickets. Bill 233-9032. 
Need Purdue tix. Will pay your price. Call 7819, 7812, or 7471. 
Wanted: 2 Chicago tix, section C­D any price. 272-1709. 
SEX · Just wanted to get your attention. Need three student tickets for Purdue. Need not be together; will pay your price. Call Kirk 6984. 
Need 2-8 general admission tickets tor Purdue. Money no object. Call 1486. 
Need ride to Iowa -West on 80 Oct. 5, call 4625 or 4449. 
Need twp general admission tix together for Missouri and Texas Christian game. Call Kevin at 7845. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost room key. Please call Cathy 6924 or 1139. 
Stolen -10 speed ICITOH, yellow w-black handle-bars & seat. Boys bike. REWARD Call P. Steele 
4809. 
Lost: Antique gold link bracelet· Lost Wednesday evening on South quad. Valuable. Call Debi 8067. Rewa~d. Lost: Architecture History,notebook in South Dining Hall. Very important. Call Fritz 
Read . 1529. 
Lost: Gold Wittnauer watch Thursday or !friday, Sept. 15. South quad. Jo,hn 1960. Reward. 
Found: one grey kitten with blue collar. Call 6791. 
Found: French book, Parole et Pensee, please identify, call 8118. 

-
on 
•
• 15 


• 
8 the observer Tuesday, September 26, 1972 
ND ruggers post fifth win, 32-6 
The Notre Dame rugby team 
unleashed a powerful offense 
and a stingy defense last 
Saturday as it rolled over the 
Kalamazoo--Western Michigan 
Rugby Club by a score of 32-6. 
The win was the fifth of the 
season for the ruggers, and all 
of the victories have come on 
the road. 
The Irish drew first blood 
early in the game when Herb 
Giorgio scored a try on a fine 
individual effort to give ND a 4­
0 lead. Kalamazoo fought right 
back with a try of their own and 
with a successful conversion 
led 6-4. 
But the Irish were not to be 
denied and they came back as 
Giogio scored his second try on 
an assist from John Greiving. 
Joe DeLois added another try 
for Notre Dame when he hulled 
his way into the end zone from 
five yards out to give the Irish a 
12-6 halftime lead. 
It wasn't until the second 
half, however, that the Irish 
ruggers really got untracked. 
Early in the third period, after 
a series of hard hits by the Irish 
serum, Ed O'Connell fell on a 
loose ball in the end zone to up 
NO's lead to 16-6. Dan Lee then 
added a pair of trys and 
O'Connell, who had misfired on 
the earlier conversion at­
tempts, booted successfully 
after each of Lee's try to fur­
ther pad the Irish margin. 
Henry Clarke rounded out the 
scoring on a long breakaway 
run to give Notre Dame the 
final 32-6 spread. 1 Once again--as the second 
half explosion indicated-Notre 
•Dame's supurb conditioning paid off. Captain Joe Hafner feels that there isn't a team that can run with the Irish for t~·o forty-minute halves, and tfie last two games have sup­ported his belief. 
The emergence of a fine kicking game on the part of the Irish backs was also a factor, as ND kept Kalamazoo in a hole most of the afternoon. 
In the ·'B" game, the Irish ruggers turned in an awesome display of power as they overwhelmed their opponents, 44-0. Scrumhalf Ed Fishburne led the way for ND by scoring three trys. Jerry Razer added two more scores--one a long run in which he broke numerous tackles. 
The Irish tallied another breakaway score when Dave Simpson rambled 30 yards for a try. Bill Seetch and Mark Fredette also scored trys for Notre Dame, and John Mcintyre contributed 12 points on six conversions. The win hiked the Irish "B" team's record to 2-o. 
Notre Dame plays its-home opener against John Carroll University this weekend behind Stepan Center. The exact time of the game will be announced later. 
1-H exchanges 

Exchanges on lnterhall Football equipment can be made Wednesday, September 27th from 6 to 7 p.m. at Gate 11 at the stadium. 
This will be the last date for any equipment exchanges. 


OBSERVER 
SPORTS
.. 
•

Irish booters wtn, 4-1 
An improved Fighting Irish soccer club took on the University of Cincinnati Saturday afternoon behind Stepan Center, and defeated the Bearcat hooters 4-1. After taking a half time lead of 2-1, the Irish were not seriously challenged, as a tough defense combined with two break-away goals accounted for the Notre Dame margin. · 
Arno Zoski, the new Irish soccer coach, has installed a brand-new approach to soccer which stresses versatility. Instead of each player specializing at one system, the Zoski system attempts to field players capable of playing any position. The teamwork con­cept also downplays individual scoring, favoring instead the team effort involved in setting up goals. 
Coach Zoski attributed last weekend's victory to a variety of factors, including a balanced team effort, better physical conditioning, a tight defense which produced key break­aways, and forcing the Cin­cinnati squad to play Notre Dame's type of game. Once the Irish had established their style of play, they were not seriously pressed_ 
Despite Notre Dames's four­goal showing, Coach Zoski described the Cincinnati game as a defensive one, and promised that his Irish would be moving toward a more of­fensive type of game. 

Rick Coleman's fine play was one n•ason for ND's 4-1 victory over ('incinnati 
The Irish travel to Goshen today to face Goshen College, a team they have not beaten in four years. On Saturday morning, Notre Dame takes on Purdue. 
FB injuries few 

Injuries were few in Notre Dame's season-opening football triumph over Northwestern. 
Runningback Greg Hill suf­fered a pulled hamstring and is ques!iona~le for Saturday's meetmg wtth Purdue. Defensive captain Greg Marx had to have stitches to close a gash in his face, but he will play against the Boilers. 
Sailors 2nd in regatta 
The Notre Dame Sailing Team took second place out of 14 schools last weekend in the Indiana State Regatta. 
The series was sailed in light air on Lake Lemon in Bloomington. Cancellation of the last race due to light air and the threat of a storm caused the Irish to drop behind the Universtiy of Michigan by two points. Miami of Ohio was a distant third. 
Kevin Hoyt, who skippered in B division with Bruce Marek as his crew, cleaned up in his class. He took low point honors with 13 points out of a possible 
70. Will Donelan and George Gaw shared the skippering duties in .. A division. With AI Constance crewing for them, they also turned in a fine performance despite the ab­sence of wind . 
I. U. 's famous puddle-jumper regatta was won by ND alumnus Tom Willison. The races were held on an 18-foot pond with homemade boats <limited to a 6" x 3" size.) The boats were propelled by winds--which were proportional to Hurrican force winds--created by three fans. 
In other sailing club action, Notre Dame hosted its hmme regatta on Diamond Lake two weekends ago. The University of Michigan won, with ND finishing 4th out of eight schools. Notre Dame had a fine showing, and put all available sailors into the races. 
Last spring the Irish were the number-three team in the midwest. They were just two points behind Ohio Wesleyan, and Michigan was the midwest titleists. Although the Irish didn't qualify for the nationals, they were represented on the midwest race team by skipper Kevin Hoyt. Hoyt's per­formance helped the MCSA win the Woods Trophy as the best collegiate racing team. 
Next weekend the Irish will be on the road again, this time to Marquette. They have also been chosen as the midwest representative for the Douglas Cup, the collegiate match race ' championships, which will be held at Long Beach Yacht Club OctQber 25-28. 
Anyone interested in joining the team-either for racing or pleasure sailing--should con­tact Bruce Marek (8360) or George Gaw (233-9073), or attend the club meeting this Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. in room 204 of the Engineering Building. 

Run! 

To the dining hall 
Thursday 


for the second •ISSUe 
of 



IIrish Sports Weeklyl 
JUST 15c PEB lSSUEl 
ot by SubscriptJon: 
I semester-SI.50 on campus/ $3.00 by mail I year -$2.75 on campus/ $8.00 by mail De1Jvered to your door Send To: 
The Observer Notre Dame, lncL Name 

Address 
flll Zip Code -. . ~f: 
.~:.~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:::;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:;::::::::::::::::::::::~=~ 






