Inside 

Editorial: A new presi­dent at Saint Mary's. 
.. . page 4 



Vol. VI No. !IS serving the notre dome -saint mary's community Monday. March 1:1. I!17 ~ 
Henry named SMC president 
by Ann Therese Darin Campus ~ditor 
<C> t!li2 The Observer 

Dr. Edward Henry is reportedly the new president at St. Mary's College. 
Mother Olivette Whelan, Board of Trustee chairmen, was to have announced Henry's ap­pointment as the college's first lay president his morning. The statement, distributed cam­puswide through the morning mail, contains the full board's approval of the St. John University Center for the Study of Local Government director as president. Henry also oversees programs at the Rural Criminal Justice Study Institute there. 
Trustees met in special session yesterday "to approve something special for the St. Mary's community which will be released tomorrow morning with something in student mailboxes," according to Sr. Verda Clare Doran. Neither she nor any other trustee would disclose the contents of the letter 
Henry will succeed Rt. Rev. John J. McGrath who died June, 1970.Sr. Alma Peter, who has acted as interim president during the two-year period, announced her resignation Dec. 18. She will retire in July. 
Alma's resignation 
Sr. Alma based her resignation on one of the Dec. 18 resolutions passed by the Board of Trustees. The resolution says that if negotiations do not materialize, then, the chairmen of the Board is authorized to initiate steps toward choosing a president. Today Henry will meet with college community representatives. Sr. Basil Anthony, fiscal affairs vice-president, has scheduled a faculty con­vocation at 4:30p.m. He will meet with students at 5:30p.m. in LeMans Lounge. The president­elect will also lunch with newly-elected student government representatives. 
Dr. Henry would "neither confirm nor deny" the Observer report last night. 
First mentioned as a presidential contender last year, Henry "flatly denied any interest in becoming an interim president with news of merger possibilities with the University of Notre Dame." 
"I hope for the sake of both schools that 
negotiations do go through," he commented in an 
Observer interview (Jan. 28, 1972) 
SMC Independent 
In the interview, the University of Chicago graduate claimed "he would consider the presidency only if St. Mary's remains in­dependent and 'follows the growing movement all over America for small women's colleges and small liberal arts colleges to train women for openings for them in the job market." 
Interviewed last night in LeMans Hall, the 
Minnesotan reaffirmed his ideas:'St. Mary's has 
been undersold. Both it and Notre Dame are the 
two top Catholic institutions in the nation." 
"I favor ooening all possible avenues oi 
cooperation between both St. Mary's and Notre 
Dame without jeopardizing specific strengths of 
either institution," he opined. 'I strongly favor 
the possibility of St. Mary's and Notre Dame 
students taking elective courses at the other 
institution." 
Academic cooperation On SMC students electing N.D. majors: "My inclination would be to maintain close cooperation between the two institutions, but financial costs would hamper a major there." While "Notre Dame is probably St. Mary's first love." the 7-year St. Cloud, Minn. mayor would not restrict academic exchanges to the neighboring university. "We may be ignoring other schools in the area with equally interesting programs. for example. Indiana University­South Bend campus with its special education facilities." Instead of a one-to-one "limiting" relationship, Henry favors a consortium arrangement with interchange among many institutions as in Boston. Washington, D.C. and western Massachusetts. He believes St. Mary's is in an exceptional position with its two sister schools: Dunbarton College in Washington. D.C. and Cardinal 

Cushing College in Boston. "We ought to develop closer linkage between not only the two schools in the United States, but also colleges operated by the Sisters of the Holy Cross in Brazil and India," he said. 
To develop ties with the two colleges outside the continental U.S., Henry plans to inaugurate internships--apostolic contnt:>utions of time, based on the Peace Corp concept, to missions operated by the sisters. He also advocates a teachers' aide exchange program. 
"Experiential Education" 

Within St.. Mary's, Henry proposes "ex­periential education."He defined the concept as "some part of time spent in college through experiences in local social services, govern­ment, and neighborhood schools." He believes 
this exJ)erience gives insight, experiences, and motivation to students. 
Envisioning the scope of the presidency, Henry mused, "I believe in staying close to the students. Every administrator ought to teach at least one course to keep close to the student." 
Teaching Administrators 
Presently at ST. John's University, Collegeville, Minn., Henry teaches courses in political science where he was chairman for 16 

years. He was also vice-president for development.
Only top administrator at St. Mary's currently teaching is Dr. Jack Detzler, provost, with a two-eredit U.S. history course. 
Henry claimed he would opt for the merger­dormant political science department. With the merger demise, the status of the department is in limbo. 
Henry majored in political science at St.. John's. He also holds Master of Arts, Master of Business Administration, and Ph.d degrees from University of Chicago. In addition, he did graduate work on his M.B.A. at Harvard University. 
Besides teaching political science at several Midwestern colleges and acting as assistant to the president at Mt. St. Scholastica Women's College, Atchison, Kansas, Henry also spent 14 years in elective positions in government. "I need to utlize the outside world as a laboratory," he contended. 
Elected Positions The new president spent 7 years as St. Cloud, Minn. mayor and public school board cor­poration corporation member. As an appointee, he also served for two years as a member of the interest in the character of St. Mary's as a woman's college. Two other nominees for the as one of six prospective Minn. gubernatorial candidates during the last election. He is prominent in the state Democratic party. Six weeks ago, only two nominees selected by the presidential search committee acknowledged any interest at all in the position. Contending with Henry was Dr. Stephen Tons or. professor of intellectual history. Uni-.,ersity of Michigan. He, too, expressed nterest in the character of ST. Mary's as a woman's college. Two other nominees for the post had accepted other administrative positions. Lewis Gatto. St. Joseph's College. Rensaler. Ind., recently accepted the presidency of Martion College, Marion, Ind. Another aspirant Dean Palmer of the College of Arts and Sciences, Union College, Schnectady, New York, now heads Metropolitan State College. Denver, Col. In the Jan. 28 Observer insight on the SMC presidency. an unidentified member of the presidential search committee, reinvigorated by the Board of Trustees Dec. 22, commented, "We never had a sister of the Holy Cross in final contention fo the post. "All of them were laymen. We tried to get a \\'Oman and we almost had one, but we were not successful. I am just telling this to prove that the search committee was not a bunch of male chauvinists." "In fact." continued the committee member, \\'e \\·ere never told 'you'd better look for a sister' despite the fact that Sr. Alma and Sr. Miriam Patrick were co-chairmen of the committee." Sr. Alma Peter served as acting president for 


Dr. Edward Henry: future SMC president 

Right Rev. John J. McGrath: late SMC president 
two years following the June, 1970 death of 1\lcGrath. 
She declined to elaborate on her future plans after she leaves the presidency. The acting president did intimate, however, that she would remain within the St. Mary-s -Notr~ Dame community. 
Sr. Alma's SMC career began in 1950 as a chemistry instructor. As an administrator, she has held offices as dean of admissioons and dean of freshmen <1951), academic dean 0956), assistant to the president 0969), and acting president (1970 >. 


the observer
2 

Monday. Ma•·ch 1:1. 1972 

world briefs 
<c> 1!>72 New York Times News Service 
New Dl'lhi-With more than half of the returns in from the 16 Indian states and two union territories that elected new state legislatures, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi of India seemed to have won· more than 70 per cent of the seats at stake. Her new Congress party displaced ruling opposition parties in three states and one territory. 
London-Britain and China have agreed to resume full diplomatic ties after months of negotiations, aided in part by the Nixon visit. The announcement is expected this week. Britain was said to have modified her stand on Taiwan to follow the wording in the U.S.-China communique last month. 
Washington--Federal standards for cleaning up air and water pollution can be met without "severe" adverse effects on industry the national economy, according to a govern­ment study released in Washin-gton. The study said that no industry's survival was threatened by the cost of pollution control equipment. 
(;ary. Ind.--The National Black Political Convention here was offered a political agenda that would create a national black assembly to represent black voters and to convene similar conventions every four years. The agenda avoids one divisive issue by not calling for either an independent Black Political Party or more black input into the established parties. 
Co.m.mon Cause on ND ca:mpus 
by Mary Romer 

Common Cause, a national Citizen's Lobby of the people, which is committed to a belief in the value oiCitizcn Action and the power of Citizen Action, is form­ing a branch organization of campus to be headed by junior Mark Vututo. 
Common Cause is a Public Interest Research Group that is working on the national level. It has many of the same goal as Halph Nader's PIRG groups, but where as the PIRGs are on a local basis, Common C'ausewords on a national scale. 
With headquarters in 

South Shore to cut commuter service 
Tonight at 7:00 in the South Bend Public Library, the In­terstate Commerce Commission is holding public meetings on the fate of the Chicago South Shore and South Bend Railroad. 
In December of 1971, the Chicago South Shore, and South Bend Railroad applied to the 
I.C.C. for permission to discontinue 37 passenger trains, as well as, changes of schedules of certain other trains between 
DUKE ELLINGTON 
at Stepan Center Thurs. April 6 8:30 pm 
Tickets on sale NOW at the Student Union Ticket Office 
Reserved Seats $4.00 ($2.00 PAS Patrons) General Admission $3.00 (PAS Patrons FREE!!) 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Washington D.C., the concern of Common Cause is issues, not­political parties or candidates. Mr. Vuturo says the aim of the organization is to "revitalize politics and government and to protect the consumer." John <.;ardner, national chairman of Common Cause and former Secretary of the Department of Health Education and Welfare, says, "With our large and determined membership, we hope to create a better, more united America." 
Among issues during its one year history, Common Cause 
Chicago, Illinois and points in Indiana. 
Because of strong opposition to the proposed discontinuation of these trains, the I.C.C. scheduled the public hearings. 

The purpose of the hearings is to give individuals, organizations, associations, and public officials an opportunity to offer to the I.C.C. information and comments indicating why it would not be in the public interest to remove commuter service 
8: 00--chamber music, the eastern michigan trip, piano, violin, and cello, little theatre-smc 
8:00--lecture, visiting japanese prof. watanabe, the japanese left and the future of liberal democracy in japan, library auditorium 
3:30--lecture, cardinal O'Hara memorial lecture: prof warren 
I. smith, profv. of economics, univer. of michigan, library auditorium 

7:00 and 9: 00--film, fellini festival, i vetelloni, engineering aud., $1.00 
7: 45--lecfure-demonstration, gestalt therapy, jorge rosner, carrol hall-madeleva, ad­mission $1.00 
8:00--lecfure, art, politics and repression, stuart hampshire, new bio bldg. auditorium. 
on campus 
today 

members have lobbied against the war. the SST, and have helped to pass the 18-year old vote through Congress. 
Vuturo will speak to a meeting of InPIRG members on Wed­nesday evening to explain how students can help recruit professors, businessmen and other South Bend citizens to become members of Common Cause. More information on the organization will be available at a booth set up at the Mock Political Convention in April or can be obtained by contacting Mark Vuturo. 
between Chicago and South Bend. 
The hearings are informal and any person desiring to offer in­formation concerning the need for continued operation of all South Shore trains should plan to attend the meeting. 

NASSAU 
ROUND TRIP AIR CHARTER SBN-NASSAU-SBN ACCOMODATIONS AT HOTEL . MONTAGU IN NASSAU AVAILABLE SEPARATELY $189 plus $13.00 TAXES AND GRATUITIES ALL GROUND TRANSFERS FREE RUM SWIZZLE PARTY 
V2 PRICE DRINKS IN SINGLES BAR LIMITED NUMBER OF SEATS SIGN UP NOW 


TICKETS ONI SALE AT STUDENT UNION TICKET OFFICE CALL: 7757 1 1 : 15 ­12:15 .4:00-5:00 MO.N-FRI 
IN PERSON! 




NEIL DIAMOND 
MEMORIAL COLISEUM 
8:30

SATURDAY, APRIL 15 P.M. 
MAIL ORDERS NOW! 
TICKETS 54.00-55.00-56.00 
MAIL ORDERS TO NEIL DIAMOND CONCERT, BOX 5157, FORT WAYNE, INDIANA 4680.!r.-CHECKS TO NEIL DIAMOND CONCERT. ENCLOSE STAMPED RETURN Et'IVELOPE. 
BOX OFFICE SALE STARTS MONDAY, MARCH 20 AT THE COLISEUM'S PARNELL ENTRANCE Order Now For Choicest Seatsl 


MARCH 24-31 8 DAYS & 7 NIGHTS 

I 
~ 
r I 
1\Ionday. Ma•·ch t:l. 1!172 the observer 
Panel discuss North Ireland's troubles 

.Jim O'Sullivan: only two of the :!,nnn jailed not Catholic. 
''The real tragedy of the situation in Ireland today is that it is a conflict between Irish­men," Jim Murray explained yesterday on WSND-FM's In­h•rnational Hour Program. Murray, a graduate student at Notre Dame, participated in a panel discussion on Irish violence along with Fr. Ernan McMullin, head of the Philosophy Depart­ment at Notre Dame, and Jim O'Sullivan, the program moderator. 
Calling the British division of Ireland "a solution to the fact that in 1922 the two groups wouldn't live together," Murray emphasized that the central struggle is not between the Irish people and Britain. 
Fr. McMullin, however, pointed out that the choice of the actual dividing line was economically orientated. He said the line seperating was drawn fifty miles outside of Belfast" because Britain wanted to protect its investments in Belfast's shipyards and textile mills.'' 
Some of the counties in­corporated, McMullin claimed, were predominately Catholic, while the whole country was forty per cent Catholic. "Because the leaders realized that Catholics 
Place.ment Bureau co.mp1alnts lead to Grad Union probe 
by Tom Drape 
Recent developments affecting graduate students and their subsequent complaints with the Placement Bureau have led to an open letter to Fr. Hesburgh and other administrators, plus the formation of a Graduate Student Union Placement Bureau Committee. 
The letter attacking the policy of the Placement Bureau was presented Friday at the GSU meeting by MBA <graduate students in business) who recently had an interview can­celled. In addition to Fr. Hesburgh, Richard Willemin mureau director), Thomas T. Murphy and Vincent R. Raymond (dean and assistant dean respectively of the Business College l, and the GSU officers received copies of the letter. 
!<'red Voglewede. who sent the letter. wants a review of the bureau policy and the reason why his interview with a Chrysler Corporation representative was cancelled. 
Willemin. stated that Voglewede's deletion from that particular interview was a special situation yet, never­theless, within the Placement Bureau's stated policy. 
Voglewede, whose background is in chemical engineering and business, charged that due to limited time, money and facilities, some students are unable to obtain interviews. 
Willemin, claiming that he has statistics proving that Voglewede's claims are false, cited that the Placement Bureau has contact with 111 employers accounting for approximately 140 interviews. 
Emphasizing that he was not attacking the bureau director but the present policy, Voglewede wrote that he was challenging the bureau policy, "with the ob­jective of convincing college deans and departmental advisors of the need for their intervention in reviewing the policy of the Placement Bureau." 
The Graduate Student Union might become a majority, they responded by taking away their civil rights," he explained. 
Up until 1965, the Unionist Party of North Ireland still called itself "a Protestant party for a Protestant people," according to O'Sullivan. McMullin described some of North Ireland's present policies as "part of an Orange blood lust." 
One specific example, he claimed, is the policy of in­terment. This is a special law under which the British troops or Ulster police may indefinitely jail without trial any individual suspected of involvement in illegal groups. In explaining the policy, O'Sullivan stated that only two of the 2,000 people jailed so far have not been Catholic. 
"Fear that their way of life may be destroyed," according to Murray, is the major reason why the Protestants are so vehement in their refusal to grant Catholics civil rights. McMullin elaborated that there are three major groups responsible for that fear. 
• 
released 9 memo last Thursday announcing the formation of the Placement Bureau Committee and its purpose. The memo stated that the Committee has been formed to, "deal collec­tively with the Bureau while at the same time keeping the Univer­sity Deans and Departmental Advisors informed of the problems which have developed and what, if anything, is being done about them." 
The Committee stated, "We are working on the assumption that a few tactfully presented ideas will suffice to encourage the Deans and Advisors to put a Placement Bureau Policy Hevision on the agenda for their next meetings." 
The GSU has also requested 
that undergrads and grads 
submit any complaints and 
suggestions to the GSU office in 
the Administration Building. 
Willemin. commenting that it 
was unfortunate such actions 
were being taken, said that he is 
fully prepared to defend the 
policy of his office. 

The first group is the Orange Order, which he called a propaganda machine whose members are "the hard hat type that exploit all kinds of prejudices." He claimed that in the late eighteenth century, the British government supported the Orange Order in order to seperate the two people. 
The second group are the Squires of North Ireland who "have found it in their best in­terest to insure the continued seperation." He claimed that these men, the leaders of the Unionist Party which has ruled Ndrth Ireland for fifty years, fear Democracy because it will give the Catholics some control. 
Conservative members of the f<'ianna Fail Party in the Republic of Ireland, according to McMullin, are the third major group perpetuating the Protestants' in Northern Ireland. He called their statements of support for anti-partition policies "dishonest." 
This continued fear, and the resulting continued suppression of Catholic civil rights, according to the panel, has lead to the present violence. They point to the threats and counter threats of the Ulster Volunteer force and the Irish Republic Army as an indication of the fear and hatred. 
The IRA has threatened to kill two British soldiers or policemen for every Catholic killed by the police. Last Wednesday, ac­cording to O'Sullivan, the Ulster Volunteer Force threatened they would kill ten Catholics, in-eluding one priest, for every policeman or soldier killed by the IRA. 
In the tersely worded statement, the UVF emphasized that "with the help of God and to the last drop of blood, we will fight to defend our faith and heritage from Rome rule and Popery." 
Murray pointed out that this attitude is indicative of the IRA's attitude and also, in part, the Irish Republic's attitude. "The traditional southern Irish at­titude is not to compromise but rather to subjugate." 
McMullin cited the IRA's violence in the last year as one evidence of a failure to com­promise causing more bloodshed. The original IRA was not a militant group, and at one time even policed part of the ghettos as part of a 'gentleman's agreement' with the British troops, he claimed. 
McMullin pointed to the split in the IRA and alleged brutality by the soldiers, both happening after the first incidences of Irish violence, as causes of the new violence of the IRA. "The IRA took to violence out of despair with the situation," he claimed "although when the British first entered North Ireland they were welcomed by the Catholics." 
IRA members have the ex­tremely strong and unqualified support of the Catholics near the border," according to Murray. "The people farther south have an undiminished, but less practical support." 


Dr. Anthony Black, associate professor of history at St. Mary's addresses audience in an analysis of Nixon's China trip. Dr. Bernard Norling, (facing camera), associate professor of history at Notre Dame and Dr. Peter Moody, (far right), assistant professor of government at Notre Dame, commented on the "sensationalism" of the news media and "reunification of Taiwan with the Chinese mainland. 

JIM HIBSCHMAN
iiiible
business 
PONTIAC 
301 Lincolnway E. Mishawaka 
755 ~771 



SENATO·R BIRCH BAYH 
WILL SPEAK THIS AFTERNOON 2:30PM 
Carroll Hall Madeleva Classroom Bldg. St. Mary's· Campus 

MARCH 18BUY YOUR 
STEPAN CENTER

TICKETS NOW! ON SALE IN 8:00 pm THE DINING HALLS $3.50 
the observer 
Monday. March 1:1. 1972 
THE 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
OBSERVER  John Abowd Editor-in-chief  Jim Jendryk Business Manager  
Don Ruane  Bill Bauerle  
News: 283-1715  Executive Editor  Advertising Manager  
Editorial: 283-8661  

Business: 283-7471 Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
A new president 
Today St. Mary's will announce the appointment of its first lay president. Dr. Edward Henry, director of the Center for the Study of Local Government at St. John's University, Collegeville, Min­nesota, has been tapped by the presidential search committee and the Board of Trustees to succeed Acting President Sr. Alma Peter. 
Sr. Alma's tenure has been the most tumultuous in the history of the college. The clouding factor now, and throughout, has been unification with the University of Notre Dame. No one, not even Dr. Henry can be completely certain how this touchy issue will eventually be resolved. 
One fact is relatively clear. Henry is firmly committed to an "independent St. Mary's College." In his original in­terview with The Observer in January, Henry emphasized this commitment as one of his firmest preconditions in ac­cepting the post. Since he has been in consideration since the search committee was first established two years ago, it is inconceivable that Henry himself finally decided that the merger of SMC and ND is, at least for the time being, out of the question. The St. Mary's Board of Trustees has declared the merger dead. 
The sad fact is that the students and faculty of both institutions have been so completely secluded from the decision­making process that finally nixed the merger. 
It should become clearer in the up­coming weeks just exactly what hap­pened to the unification idea. Clearly, neither single institution is at fault. St. Mary's delayed the appointment of a permanent president to succeed Fr. John McGrath for two years. The University of Notre Dame placed the Acting President of St. Mary's College on its board of Vice-presidents. These are not the actions born of idle speculation--they are the actions born of hope. It is this hope that we are watching vanish, at least in the tangible form that so many have envisioned for the last three years. 
But at least the next months hold some kind of certainty. We do not expect any more reversals of official policy 

11JULI\JS (JE~+\A\) A RODEN CALtNDAR. AND ~f C+iAN6fD II,
NPE CS\<E60~+1AD A. RDTIEN cALENDAi<,ANV RECAAN6EEJ IT, J3UT ntE QUEstiON 10DA'-/, 'fRIENDS, IS...'1 

Steve Lazar 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
What the groundhog said 
0 Jesus. through LIFE through the Immaculate Heart of 
LifE of Mary, I offer Thee my life my prayers. works and lie and sufferings of this lie this day for all the intentions of Thy Lie Thy Sacred Heart in union with the Holy Lie Holy Sacrifice of the Mass LIE Mass throughout the world LIE world. in reparation for my Lie my sins; for the intentions of Lie of all our lie our Associates li e Associates and in particular for life for the intention recommended this liFe this month by the Holy Father LIFE Amen 
To he. or not to be: that is the questionproblemanswer To lw. or to be too: that is the question 
Amen Again 
Tiw p<'ace is ended; go ('lllnasse 
editorial staff issue staff 

news editor: jerry lutkus night editor: jim roe managing editor: joe abel\ assistant night editor: carol smc editor: maria gallagher weiss features editor: rod braye day editor: tom bornholdt editorial page editor: jim mc­typist: debbie gras, mark dermott niederkorn, ginna smith, helen sports editor: jim donaldson smudski campus editor: ann therese darin 
Letter. • • 
Editor. 
In its relentless effort to dominate the lives of its students. the University administration has again tried to pull the wool over the students' eyes this time with regard to next semester's scheduling. If student boards were consulted, they were. in our opinion. hardly representative of student opinion. No mention, whatsoever. of a student referendum has been heard. 
Most students would rather spend a few more days at home. especially over Labor Day. as 
statements. We expect that academic 
opportunities for students and faculty at 
both institutions will be fully delineated 
very shortly. This is the very least that 
can happen. There are many people who 
would be grateful for even this limited 
information. 

The Editorial Board 
South Shore plight 
Tonight in South Bend, the Interstate Commerce Commission is giving the people a chance to talk. They're organizing a meeting to hear what the people have to say about the discon­tinuation of the South Shore Train. 
For years, the South Shore has been an easy, cheap method of transportation between South Bend and Chicago. Now, however, the South Shore has asked for at discontinuation of service. The people, naturally, are distraught and the I.C.C. has offered the people a chance to say why. 
The meeting is tonight at 7:00 at the South Bend Library. If the South Shore affects you at all, if you use it to go up to Chicago for the weekend, or use it to bring your girl in from O'Hare, then it affects you. And you should be there to say something. 
If the South Shore no longer runs, then South Bend will really become a void. AU direct ties with the big city will be gone. The residents of the city who depend on the South Shore for commuting will be stranded. Overall, if the South Shore is discontinued, it'll be a :vicious blow to the city and people of South Bend. 
It is a fate that we really can't let happen. Our presence and our voices at the meeting tonight might help South Bend avert a problematic situation. Believe it or not, we owe the city something and it is unquestionable that they would appreciate our assistance. lf we can help, we should be there. 7: 00, South Bend Library. 
Jerry Lutku:s 
opposed to having the additional days at Thanksgiving. In light of the ever increasing financial burden imposed by a college <'duration. the students need all the time possible to muster the required revenue or face the reality of sinking further into debt than they already are. Being realistic and straightforward. most students would rather spend the stolen time in the last few weeks of the summer with parents and loved ones than wallowing in South Bend in November. l\lany are the students who can't afford to go 
on the new calendar 
home at Thanksgiving because of the lack of funds and-or tran­sportation. The semester is long enough without making it longer, thus we support retaining the present scheduling system. 
We look forward to a reply from the administration. We demand a voice in affairs that so intimately affect our lives. A united effort on the part of the students may prompt the ad­ministration to reconsider their decision. Where is Kersten now that we need him?~ 
9 residents from the ninth floor Grace 
the observer

l\londay. March 1:1. 1972 
•

cif --a weekend of mUSIC 

reflections of long _ago and far away 
Janet Cullen 
This isn't an essay on Angers, the relatively small French city where 19 girls and 32 guys are spending the year, nor a study of the French culture or language, nor an account of the vacation we've spent in different countries. I'd not even attempt to describe the times that were so hard nor the rewards ever so tenderly remembered, still feel, and will for three months to come. Those belong to each of us--some buried so deep that no one can ever share, only to manifest themselves in what we become. But what might hold some interest for anyone who cares to read are impressions of life at Notre Dame, seen by those of us who have been there, been here, and many having dubious thoughts of anticipation about returning. 
Once a week the package arrives and usually Tony doles out the 4 sets of Observer and a few Scholastic's. It's March now, and although they still evoke a reasonable amount of interest, somehow no one seems quite as enthusiastic as before, when acute homesickness was the dominant theme, and anything representing home signified a refuge, something familiar. We're a long way away now-­the miles always existed; the frame of mind slower in coming--learning to be at ease in a totally foreign life style. But maybe last year never really existed, and maybe, as someone wrote me: "One never reaches home. But where paths that have affinity for each other intersect, the whole world looks like home for a time." 
It's hard to imagine when daily schedules revolved almost solely around me--my classes, roommate, meals, homework. It's different to have new responsibilities: the other Americans, my French father in the hospital, shopping for my French mother, dinner at 7:45 with the family, an English lesson to give, and always the 2 kilometer bicycle ride when it's over. 
And when studying was so intensely concentrated in books--with 200 pages of history to read and 2 mid-terms tomorrow. It's like that from time to time. but. more likely today's lesson requires finding out the name for zipper--and buying one, reading the morning "Courrier de l'Ouest"psyching out my French mother's reaction, watching the evening news from Paris and then "Bewitched" in French. 
When was it that masks went up because he was a 
he') Or when normal female-male relationships 
depended upon a fictitional merger? Or when 
a christian university? 

The term "Christian university" is often 
tossed around at Notre Dame. It is im­pressive as a catchall phrase for press releases or Alumni magazines, but does it apply. One possible example of a Christian University at work is the efforts of five Notre Dame students at the Northeast Neighborhood Center, 803 North Notre Dame avenue, across from Pandora's books. Kevin Jordan, Juan Manigault, Honny Newkirk, Kevin O'Connell and James Reid, originally hired by the Urban ILeagueto do a public utilities survey, are trying to extend the center's services to 
the nearby community. 
One such program in need·of student 
help is the Community Friendship 
Program. It's purpose is to allow one to 
one contact between volunteers and the 
shut-in senior citizens of the area. Think 
about the program and if interested in 
helping contact Kevin Jordan at 283-1878. 

Rod Braye 

LAFORTUNE RENOVATION 
CONTEST 
$50 -first prize $25 -,second prize 
For best plans utilizing student center space. Plans to be used next summer 
for info. contact: Student Affairs 
vice-pres·~ 
asst. vice-pres. or Ed Ellis 7663 

contact with males meant a date, a concert, a phone call. a car. and someone paying my way? Wasn't it always just doing things with people, people who had known you at your best on an ocean liner, and at your worst. day in and out--fresh out of the shower in Home. after a a mobylette accident. crying after a Thanksgiving tape. 
Cold politics ever have meant an "Obsener" account of the SBP election. or "Times" prediction of the New Hampshire primary~ Wasn't it always that plus ('hbion-Delmas refuting a tax-evasion charge. the French television O.R.T.F.'s account of Nixon in China. fear of the gauchistes and their manifestation in Paris last weekend. a french ,·iew of Ikrnadette DeYlin" 
It·s been a while since realitv existed like it use to­,,·hen we had a reasonable id.ea of what monev is. and when travelling wasn't at whim. when decisions about the future were looked at serioush·: when life \\'asn't so much a dream. So home and next vear loom ahead. with a bit of last vear to sober. our thoughts. · 
Not without regrets will we leave Angers. nor without a bit of apprehension will the Dome come into view. for those of us who will return. 
C.A.C. Cinema '72 presents Fellini Festival March 13-17 today (Monday, March 13) I Vitelloni (1953) 7 and 9 pm tomorrow (Tuesday, March 14) La Strada (1954) 7 and 9 pm all showings at engineering auditorium Other films: La Dolce Vita. 8 1/ 2 and Juliet 
of the Spirits ' Admission: $1.00 Cinema '72 Patrons FREE 
6 the observer
l
'I Fanning,
~ 
I Komar beaten 
by "Lt>fty" Ruschmann 
Mike Fanning's unbeaten string came to an end at 26 and Hick Komar suffered a first­round setback in a disappointing weekend of competition for Notre Dame at the NCAA national wrestling tournament at College Park, Marvland. 
The tournament, which closed out the college wrestling season, was won by perennial champion Iowa State for the third time in four years. The Cyclones out­distanced Michigan State and Oklahoma State, last year's titlist, for national honors. 
The first returns from the heavyweight division were en­couraging to Irish fans, as l<'anning opened with a 5-1 decision over Mark Dunham of Washington. But Penn State football ace Dave Joiner, heavyweight runner-up last year, outpointed Mike in the second round by a 3-1 count. 
After a scoreless first period, Joiner managed to gain the up oosition and ride Fanning for dose to two minutes before Fanning escaped for a 1-0 ad­vantage. In the final stanza, .Joiner escaped to knot it at 1-1, and picked up another point when officials penalized Fanning for a rules infraction. Riding time accounted for Joiner's final point. 
l<'anning's chances in the consolation round were erased when .Joiner was eliminated in the next round. The eventual hl•avyweight champ was 400­pound Chris Taylor of Iowa State. 
Komar exited early in his bid for rhe 177-pound title, falling victim to Minnesota's Mike Tanning who registered a pin at :1:52 of the match. Komar's chances to gain a consolation berth also went by the boards wh('n he aggravated a knee in­jury, which forced him out of further competition. Tanning W('nt on to finish secoond in the tourney. 
1972 NOTRE DAME BASEBALL SCHEDULE 
SPRING TRIP 
MARCH 24 (Fri. J Murray Stafet of Murray, Ky. 
2.5 (Sat.) U. of Ill .. Chicago at Murray, Ky. 
2.5 (Sot.) Murray Stale at Murray, Ky. 27 I Mon.) North Dakota U. ol Murray, Ky. 27 (Mon.) Murray Stale at Murray. Ky. 28 (Tue1.) Memphi1 State at Memphis, Tenn. 29 (Wed.) Ar\{onsot State of Jonesboro, Arlr... 30 (Thurs.)Arkonsos State at Jonesboro, Ark. 
J 1 (Fri.) Chmllon Bro. Col. or Memphis, Tenn. 
APRIL 1 (Sol.) Ckristian Bro. Col. (2)at Mempkis, Tenn. J lMon.) 0fl'lta Slalfl' of CI~Ycland, Miu. o4 (Tues.) Delta Stale-at Cle~eland, Miss 
REGULAR SEASON 
11 ITuc" I Northw1utern at Notre: Dome 14 (Fri.) OtHo Unive-rsity at Alheni, Ohio 15 (Sat.) Ohto UntYerstly at Athrl"s, Ohio 18 (Turs.} Y-1lparaiso ol Yolporaiso 21 !Fri.) Miami of Ohio at Notre Oaml!' 22 I Sat. I Mtami of Ohto 12} at Notre Dam ...• 
24 {Mon.) U. ol Orrrod or Dctro;r 25 (Tues.) Mtckigan Stale (2) ol East Lansing 27 1Thun.)8ullt'r (2) a! Indianapolis 28 {Fri.) U. of Cincinnati ol Cncinnoti 2'} (Sat.) Xo'fter UniYcmily (2) a! Cincinnati 
MAY 2 (Tues.) Hillsdale College (2) at Hillsdale 3 I Wed. I U. of Michigan 12 I at Notre Dome .S I Fri. I Bowling Grun U. al Notre Dome 6 (Sat.) Bowling Green U. 121 at Notre Dome 8 {Mon.) Western Michtgon at Kalamazoo 9 ITues. I Valparaiso at Noire Dame 
Coming Soon 
Candice Bergen Elliot Gould GettingStraight 
Monday. March 1:1. 1!172 
Jim Donaldson·:!:,:,:~::::::::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=====================================================:=:=====: 
The Irish Eye 
:i:i:i:i:i:;:;:;:;:;:;:;:Boxing and the Bengal Bouts 
All too often, the sport of boxing conjures up images of smoky arenas, filled with bloodthirsty fans and gamblers, vivid memories of the helpless figure of Benny "Kid" Paret being battered to death against the ropes, and of Anthony Quinn, unforgettable in the role of the punch-drunk, pathetic fighter in Requiem For A Heavvweh!ht. 
But that sort of thing doesn't come to mind when boxing is spoken of in conjunction with Notre Dame. Boxing at Notre Dame means the Bengal Bouts, the University's annual undergraduate tournament where boxing is pure sport and not the gory, sometimes shadowy exhibition one sees in professional rings. 
Boxing at Notre Dame is also a gentle, lovable man called "Nappy" and bright, strong young men like Gary Canori. 
The Bengal Bouts begin tonight for the 41st consecutive year and Dominick Napolitano, known by virtually everyone as "Nappy", has been around since the very first tourney. 
"Nappy" seems to have a heart that fills up his diminutive frame and he cares a great deal about boxing and about the young men that participate in the intramural boxing program. It hurts him when people criticize boxing or wonder about the value of such things as the Bengal Bouts. 
"Boxing is one of the finest sports I know of," "Nappy" remarked last week during the afternoon of the last formal workout before the Bengals. "It's supposed to be violent but in over 40 years we have never had a serious injury here. It's less dangerous than a lot of other sports. If a boy in good condition is matched sensibly and the proper safety precautions are taken, the chance of injury is minimal." 
"Nappy" is careful to see that his boxers are not overmatched or placed in situations that they cannot handle. 
"I want all of the bouts we schedule to be contest," he said. "I don't want anyone to be a puching bag-that's not the objective of boxing. I hate to see a knockdown. I enjoy watching a boy in good condition who knows the mechanics of the sport, giving as much as ht takes. I like to see a boy who can block punches and move beautifully, who has tac­tical skill and isn't merely a puncher. That's real boxing." 
Men have been fighting for sport for centuries. The ancient Greeks considered boxing an important part of their physical training and, in addition, one of the purest of art forms. The sport can certainly paint a vivid picture of what's inside a man. 
"Once a boy is in the ring, he's on his own," "Nappy" commented. "It's a real challenge to step inside the ropes and no one can help a boy once he's inside them. He can acquire something in the ring that he can never get in any team sport." 
"Nappy" has spent over four decades teaching boys the sport he loves and, in the process, thousands of young men have come to Jove the sport, too. As well as the man who taught it to them. 
Gary Canori, a senior, president of the boxing club, and defending champion in the 145-pound weight class, is one of "Nappy's" many outspoken admirers. 
"Nappy's a very cheerful, friendly man," Canori said. "He's as old as my grandparents but he seems much younger. I couldn't talk to them like I can with "Nappy". And he's so active, he spends a tremendous number of hours with us in the boxing room. He never misses a workout." 
"Even for the guys who work hard but lose in the first round, being associated with "Nappy" makes the effort all worthwhile," Canori added. 
Canori is a fine example of a Napolitano-trained boxer. Strong, quick and bright, Canori has learned his lessons well. 
"Nappy's taught me to think a lot in the ring," he commented. "You can't rely on muscle. You've got to plan the fight and pace yourself so you'll have something left at the end." 
"If you're good enough, you win," Canori continued. "There are seldom any hard feelings after a bout. Sportsmanship is a byword of the Bengals. You hate a guy while he's in the ring with you, but, when the fight's over, you'r good friends. Everyone has a good time," he said. 
Canori's words ring true for anyone on campus that has an interest in boxing or enjoys watching a good sports event. If you go to see the B('ngals. you'll probably have a good time, too. 
--------------~ 
GRADUATE STUDENTS 
The GRADUATE STUDENT UNION announces that NOMINATIONS for President Vice President Secreta~y -Treasurer 
are NOW being accepted 
NOMINATIONS close /v\ARCH 17. INTERESTED STUDENTS should contact the GSU office on the 4th Floor Ad. Sidg. or call 8752 


The South Shore Railroad is trying to discontinue 37 passenger trains. 
This means a severe reduction in South Bend service. H you have the privelege of voting, it's your responsibility to express your opinions! 
Attend public hearings! 
Monday, March 13 7:00pm Public Library South Bend 
FRANKIE'S 
EVERYDAY DINNER SPECIALS 
-Ocean Perch $1.25 -10 oz. Rib-Eye Steak $1.50 -1/2 Broasted Chicken $1.50 

Includes Tureen Soup, Salad, 
Bread, Butter And Coffee Planning a Party? Frankie's has Special Rates for Student Parties! 
PROOF OPEN OF AGE 

DAILY 12:45 
REQUlR~D 
ENDS TUESDAY 
PAPA GALLO 
SECOND FEATURE 
I'M NO VIRGIN

I I 

Monday, March 1:1. 1972 the observer 7
-

Tom McMannon Fencers take third 
wtns tn NCAA's 
by Vic Dorr 
Notre Dame's indoor track team finished down in the standings in the past weekend's NCAA Championship Meet in Detroit, but the Irish delegation didn't come home empty handed. 
Hurdler Tom McMannon finished first in the 60-yard high hurdles and his winning mark of 
7.2 set a new ND school record. Freshman Greg Cortina set another school record for the Irish when he threw the shot 60 feet, 10 and three-quarter inches, but his effort was good for only a sixth-place finish. 
The other recognition gained by Notre Dame was a "Coach of the Year" plaque which was presented to Alex Wilson by his fellow coaches for the success of his cross-country team. 
Notre Dame's lone blue ribbon­-McMannon's --came only after a series of heats and eliminations. There were three preliminary heats in the 60-yard high hurdles, and these trials narrowed the field to ~ group of six finalist. by Jim Donaldson champs a year ago, head the list 
Sports Editor of 58 boxers participating in the"There were six of us in the Six champions will begin the 41st renewal of the Bengals.
final heat," said McMannon, defense of their titles tonight as As usual, the competition"and five guys finished with the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts get promises to be fierce in all tentimes in the 7.2 range." 
underway at 8 o'clock in the ACC. weight classes. 
Joining McMannon in that final Pat McGrath, Gary Canori, Larry Semerad and Mike heat were Bill High from Ten­Mike Suddes, Kevin Kerrigan, Ed Loughery are the co-favorites in nessee, Godfrey Murray from Carney and Roland Chamblee, all the 125-pound division. Semerad 
0 'Mara decides to leave ND 
by Vic Dorr 
While outlining the reasons for In the space of two academic 
his decision, O'Mara took ex­years. Tom O'Mara has appeared ception to an article that ap­
peared in Saturday's South Bendin a lot of basketball games for Tribune. The article stated thatNotre Dame. During his fresh­O'Mara was leaving Notre Dame man season he took part in 14 of mainly to devote more time to

the 18 games played by the Irish yearlings. This season, as a social work in Los Angeles. 
"That whole angle was in­

starting forward, the 6-6 
correct." he said. "I'm notsophomore didn't miss one of leaving just so I can get intoNO's 26 outings. 

social work. I mean, I could doBut Tom O'Mara's career at just as much social work hereNotre Dame--both as an athlete because I'm sure South Bendand as a student--will end at the could use it. I want to do someconclusion of the current term, social work, but it's not thefor the Los Angeles native an­reason I'm leaving Notre Dame.

nounced Saturday that he was In fact, it has nothing to do withleaving Notre Dame after this why I'm leaving Notre Dame. 
year to continue his education at The lanky sophomore conceded Berkeley, California. 
that there were several dif­

The decision was not a sudden ficulties tied into his decision, but one. and O'Mara knew before the those difficulties are causing him beginning of the fall semester very little regret.
that this would be his last year at "I know I'm throwing awayND. He would, he said, have about eight thousand dollars," he transferred sooner ,but Berkeley's admitted, " and probably a lot of admissions regulations caused other things as well--like mythe year's delay. 
talent to play basketball. But that "I wouldn't have been back this ability isn't particulary of any

Tom O'Mara
year if I could have helped it," importance to me. There are Tom said. , "but I couldn't get Saturday afternoon down at the other things that are now more into Berkeley until I was a junior. YM('A. but it's not for real life-­important. and I know that there 
And as long as I was here and and I certainly can't see making are better ways for me to com­
playing basketball I wanted to try it my whole life." 
municate other than bouncing a to do mv best." "To me." he continued, "Notre ball for the rest of my life. 

O'Mara 's best saw him lead the Dame is something less than an Heaction to O'Mara's decision-­Irish cagers in scoring ten times-­intellectual and academic oasis. I £>specially by Coach Diggerincluding each of the last five think it fails to consider the Phelps and the Irish cagers--hasgames. It saw him top the team emotional needs of its students, been variPd.
with field goal and free throw and I think there are a lot of ''I've been trying to explain my percentages of .439 and .714, p£>ople here who are unhappy and decision to people for a longrespectively. It saw him post a 17-alone. If I thought that something time." said O'Mara. "Digger waspoint average for the season-­,,·as going to be done, or could be non-committal. He told mesecond only to that of scoring done. or that there was '\\'hatever you think is fine,' andleader Gary Novak. something I could do--well. then I he could accept that that's how itThose figures would be enough \\·ould stay. I've been 
to impress a \\·as. !\lost of the guys on the team 
lot of people. But disillusioned that way with the didn't believe me at first...
neither they. nor basketball in total life of this place. 
particularly when the jump shots general. nor Notre Dame--do "And people go through this for from the corner started going in.

much to impress Tom O'Mara. four years so they can get a "If basketball or Notre Dame degree and then get a job. I can't "It's important to me." he said, were worth anything at all see that. mvself. I can't live 
"that people know why I'm significant to me. " he said."I \\'ithout reali'tv. and this is not leaving. I'm sorry <for the team) 
would be staying. But society is realitv. There's an attitude of that we lost those games when we over-competitive to start with. sacrifice around here--an at­did. I really am. But my personal and I just can't see myself titude of ·Jet's get it over with.' criteria was to do as well as I 
upholding that particular value. I \\'dl. I don't agree with that. I could out there. and I'm glad I did think basketball is a good game. don't think there are enough well enough so that what I'm but on the college level it's not a years to throw away on saying now can be taken game--it's a job. It's okay for a something like that." seriously." 
by Joe Wilkowski 
is a much improved boxer since last year, when he was beaten in the semi-finals. More ex­perienced now, he advanced to the championship round in the Chicago Golden Gloves tour­nament a couple of weeks ago. Loughery gave McGrath a good battle in the 135-pound class last March and, although he's ten pounds lighter, still packs plenty of punching power. 
McGrath, the youngest of the five "fighting McGrath brothers", appears to be the classiest of the 135-pounders. All of McGrath's brothers were Bengal champions and Pat kept up the tradition by winning a unanimous decision over Loughery last year as a fresh­man. Veterans Matt Cavanaugh and Jamie "Naked Kahuna" Egan loom as possible threats to McGrath's hopes for a repeat title. 
Sophomore Mike Suddes, a champion in the 150-pound class will be dropping down among the 145s in hopes of avenging the loss defending champ Gary Canori inflicted on Mike's brother Tom in last year's 145-pound final. 
Canori put on an outstanding boxing exhibition in wresting the 145 crown from Tom Suddes a year ago. Mike was awarded a win by unanimous decision in the 150-pound finale. 
Suddes' departure leaves the !50-pound bracket without a clear-cut favorite but Tom Bole and Terry Johnson have drawn first-round byes. Bole was beaten by Suddes in the semifinals last year while Johnson was a first round loser in the 155-pound division. 
Kevin Kerrigan, another of the tough Irishmen that seem to abound .in the Bengals, appears to be well ahead of his competitors in the 155-pound class. Kerrigan won a unanimous decision over Aaron Baker to pick up the 155 crown a year ago. 
Ed Carney breezed to the 160­pound title last year and may not find it much tougher to retain his championship. 
The 165-pound class could provide some of the best boxing in the tourney. Norm Barry, who lost a split decision in last year's 165 finale is back, as is Roland Chamblee. who was beaten by Barry before copping the light heavywight title. In addition, Bill 1\lcGrath. one of Pat's older brothers and a former Bengal winner. has returned from a year place. Mike Cornwall also did well in the preliminary rounds, racing to an 11-1 mark. He, too, had trouble in the finals, however, and his 2-5 record gave him 6th place in the foil. 
of study abroad and is out to regain championship status. 
The upper weight classes are wide open. Byron King and Denny Clark have drawn byes in the 175-pound division and football players Pat Steenberge and Cecil Boot look like the men to beat among the light heavies. 
Another Irish gridder, Mike Webb. will be making a strong bid for the heavyweight crown which senior Bob Minnix has not chosen to defend. 
The semifinals of the Bengals are slated for Wednesday night and the finals will be held Friday night. 
Diminick stars in 
Inter hall track; 
Grace takes title 
Sophomore Gary Diminick captured first place in three events to carry Grace Hall to the Interhall indoor track title last week at the ACC. 
Diminick, a varsity football player accounted for all of Grace's 15 points. He won the 60­yard dash in 6.5 seconds, finished first in the 60-yard hurdles with a clocking of 7.25 seconds and outdistanced all his competitors in the long jump with a meet record leap of 20-6. 
Ed Denning of Holy Cross and Cavanaugh's eight-lap relay team also set new records. Denning's mark came in the mile run, which he won in 4:43.8, while the quartet of Cliff Bourie, Bob Stockhoff, Bob Fiala and Terry Kahn set a new mark of 2:51.2 in the eight-lap relay. 
Zahn took runner-up honors in the meet, totaling 11 points on Bob Kissel's victory in the 440 and a first place in the four-lap relay. Kissel covered the quarter mile distance in 57.5 seconds and the relay team of Tom Dixon, John Murphy, Rich Dickinson, and Tom Grear was clocked in I :20.2 
Morrissey and Cavanaugh were tied for third place, each garnering nine points. 
Other individual winners were Morrissey's Joe Lepley, who won the 880 in a time of 2:06.4, and Randy Schultz of Alumni, whose jump of 5-10 was good for first place in the high jump. 
...
·'· .·· 


the observer
8 
1\londay. March 1:1. 1!172 
Dorothy Day awarded ND Laetare Medal 
..... 
.... 
.. 
.. 
Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame, announced the selection of Miss Day Saturday night <March 11). She is the 19th woman to receive the honor, conferred annually since 1883 on outstanding American Catholics. 

"Dorothy Day has been comforting the afflicted and afflicting the comfortable vir­tually all of her life," Father llesburgh commented. "always a little bit in advance of the ac­ceptable, she has pricked the conscience of us all, reminding us that the way to the Father is in Dorothy Day 
service to the least of His brethren. In a society buffeted by various types of political Dorothy Day, the founderof the radicalism, she has exemplified Catholic Worker Movement and the most radical approach of all: befriender of society's outcasts Christian love. No one has put it for a lmosta half century, hasbeen any better than she oncedid when named the 1972 recipient of the she said, 'Love is indeed a harsh Laetare Medal, the University of and dreadful thing to ask of us, of Notre Dame's highest honor. each of us,but it is the only an­
The Rev. Theodore M. swer.'" 
Cardinal O'Hare Memorial Lecture 
Found one Wittnauer "award"
S~nith to talk on fiscal policy wrist watch · see monitor Memorial Library. 
Dr. Warren L. Smith, professor 
of economics at the University of 
Michigan and a member of the 
Brookings Institution Panel on 
F.conomic Activity, will present 
this year's third Cardinal O'Haa 
Memorial Lecture at 3:30 p.m. 
Monday <March 13) in the 
University of Notre Dame's 
Memorial Library Auditorium. 
A former visiting lecturer at 
Harvard University and the 
author of several books and 
papers on economics, Smith will 
discuss"Measuring the Impact of 
l<'iscal Policy'~ at the afternoon 
talk open to the public. His topic 
for an evening talk limited to 
faculty and graduate students in 
the Hayes-Healy Center will be 
"On the Conduct of Monetary 
Policy." 
Smith received his un­
dergraduate and graduate dPgrees at the University of Michigan and served on the faculties of the University of Virginia and Ohio State ~;.;;;~:;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::*' 
\\\\Convention.~~~: 
· sign-ups 
[j\j: 
~ I 
;:; All those who signed up for:;:; ::;::the Mock Convention as;~: ~:~. dt'legates should check the;~;~ :;:; lluddle tomorrow <Tues l. to ;:;: :;:;see what state they have been;:;: :!:;assigned to. The organizer of:;:;: :;:;thl' Mock Convention ex-:;:;: :;:; plainPd that this is necessary ;:;: :;:; ~o that the state delegates can;:;: :;:; nwet as soon as possible to;:;: ;:;: Plect their committee:;:; ;:;; rt>presentatives. :;:; fi!::::::;.;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::!:!: 
Arkie build.?
COPIES UNLIMITED 
New 7th through 9th grade classical Christian school needs English. Latin, Math, Science teachers. Small salaries first year. Looking for graduate
(~u:1lity and f:1st service is the main facet of copies unlimited. 
students (preferably with Masters) to work part.time while at Notre Dame. Closing date for applications March 19th. Send 
Tlw X('rox ~600 III copier used in copies unlimited is the fastest and best 
reproducing m:1chine made. 
vita, references, etc. to Magdalen \\'p ~peci:-dize in :wy short run order you may have. 81/z x 11 and 8Vz x 14 
School. P.O. Box 1225, South Bend 
~6624.
p:1per is used in copies unlimited. This paper is especially made for the 
--· ----·---------­
:~600 III. While going through the machine the toner is fused into the 
paper to prevent smearing, fading and cracking. Half tones and solids :ll·e rem:1rkable in quality. Call 233-9471 or come up to suite 402 Whit­comb-Keller Bldg. and ask about the other services we offer. 
Office hours: l\lon Thru Fri 9-5, Sat 10-4 Emergencies after hours r a II 232-9834 . 
University. He was chairman of of the Complete Keynesian 
Lost (Stolen J: Blue coat in the department of economics at System," "Monetary-Fiscal 
Washington Hall Monday night 
(11:30). Reward. Call Tom 8407.
Michigan from 1963 to 1967. Policy and Economic Growth," 
He has served as a consultant and "Macroeconomics." 
PEI~SONALS 
to the joint economic committee The lecture series honors the of the U.S. Congress, to the U.S. founder of the Notre Dame 
Hazel and Ruby 
The o.c boys are accepting female riders to Florida. Inter·
Department of Justice, to the College of Business Ad­
U.S. Treasury Department, and ministration and annually brings 
views held this Saturday from 2 to 
to the Council· of Economic Ad­to the campus noted speakers and 
5:45 AM. Bring your green 
bikinis.
visors. Books he has written authorities in the fields of 

borand education. 
FOR RENT 
Dual8mm projector tor rent. Call 
Don 3729. 

SMORGASBORD 
NOTICES

Every Mo.nday 5-9 pm 
Parts and Accessories tor lm·
$1.25 All you can eat 
ported Cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland J 272-7187. 
Every Wednesday evening 
DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and Within Europe. Leave anytime from NY·Chicago. Flight Center
$1.00 PITCHER NIGHT 
227 North Randall, Madison, WI 53705. (608) 263·3131. 
AND LIVE ENTERT~INMENT 
Typing Anytime··Reasonable Prices. Chip (8256) or Mike (6963).
Every Friday night 
NASSAU TRIP MARCH 24·31. 8 days and 7 ni9hts with quad ac­com. Air fare and Hotel may be
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT 
purchased separately. Limited number of seats available. Tickets on Sal• at Student Union Ticket office. $202 inclusive.
Every Saturday night 
Questions, Call: 7757. 
It you're interested in flying to
POLKA BAND·DANCING 
Denver for spring break, call Pete at 6743 or 6730, or Dan at 6987. 
Student Union Buses to O'Hare. March 22 ND to 0'1-iare 1:30pm. April 4 O'Hare to ND 8 pm.
Open Weekdays 11 a.m. ­
Tickets on sale at the 1st Bank Campus travel office $5 one·way. All Sales Final.
LAUREL &HARDY 
NO PLANS for Easter vacation? Spend the first week of Spring
PIZZA PALACE 
Break in Hampton County, South Carolina. tutoring elementory and
4ti10Western Ave. Belleville Shoppinr Center 
high school students. For further 
information. call 4501 or 234·5889 (Paull. 12:00. 1:00am. 
Phone 289-7983 
Say, Why don't you bring your can (pop l over to the basement of the 
Miss Day, at 74 still guiding two of them published the first both the Catholic Worker issue of the Catholic Worker, a Movement and its newspaper, monthly which was to become was born in Brooklyn and spent over the years a journal of record her adolescence in Chicago. In for the American Catholic Left. 1914 she entered the University of The Catholic Worker, which Illinois as a scholarship student, currently has a circulation of and her awakened interest in 85,000, is still the only periodical social justice led her into the in American journalistic history Socialist Party. Two years later to cost more by the year (25 cent> she dropped out of the university than by the issue (a penny). when her father moved to a new Today she continues her work job in New York City. During the at the movement's headquarters next 10 years, she wrote for in New York City, writing and radical publications in New York lecturing, busy enough to regret and Chicago, entered into a short­
not spend~more time with her lived common-law marriage in 
which a daughter was born, and was converted to the Catholic 
CI~ASSIFIED ADS 
Church in 1927. 

In 1932 she met French-born 
LOST AND FOUND
Catholic layman Peter Maurin, who envisioned a "green 
Lost: Grey frame glasses. Call 
revolution" which would unite Jim 1535. 
scholars and workers in houses of 
Found: a small silver ring in
hospitality for the needy and in 
tunnel at SMC. Call 4285.
farming communes. In 1933, the 
Lost: Shaggy black and gray dog 
with Indianapolis Rabies Tag on· 
choker chain. Please call 234· 1752, 272·4761 or 283-1956. John C. 
Meyer 
daughter and nine gradchildren. Her most recent book, "Meditations," a collection of commentary on social ills in the light of the Christian Gospel, was published in 1970. 
The Laetare Medal will be presented to her at Notre Dame's commencement exercises on May 21. She joins such recent recipients of the ward as President John F. Kennedy, poetess Phyllis McGinley, in­dustrialist J. Peter Grace, and Associate Justice William J. Brennan. 
FLORIDA!!! Round Trip $40. Call 283-6339 between 4.7 pm. Ask for Rob. 
TRY·OUTS 
ND·SMC FRESHMAN NO VARSITY CHEERLEADERS 
INVITE YOU TO CHEERLEADER TRYOUTS . ORGANIZATIONAL MEETING 3:30PM. SUNDAY, MARCH 19 IN THE BASEMENT OF WALSH HALL. 
WANTED 
Wanted: 3 roommates for 4· bedroom house off.campus. $62.50 mo. Call Denny . 234-4435. 
WANT~D one very light por­table typewriter for travel in Europe. Call Bruce 288·7558 after 
6. 
Wanted: 2 female roommates for house off campus. Rent $40· month. Call 8409. 
RIDES 
2 girls need ride to Florida. Call Kathy, 5183 Please! 
Need ride to Florida for Spring Break. Call Mary Ann 4552. 
Need ride to Florida. Can leave Tuesday (3.21). Call 1441. 
Need ride to Providence R I vicinity. Spring Break. Michael 233·4435. 
Spring break Need ride to Florida. Call 8471, 8549, 8075. 
Girls desperately need ride to Ft. Lauderdale area. Call Debbie 4418 or Patsy 5786. 
Need ride to NYC, PH IL. or WASH D.C. Mar. 18. 8426. 
Need ride to Hartford. Springfield vicinity for Easter. Call 1425. 
FOR SALE 
12" TV only 5 mo. old. $95; 1020. 
STEREO SPEAKER SYSTEMS Brand new. Full warranty. Call 283·8462. 
Afgan puppies AKC, male and female, several colors and masks. Call 288 6911. 
ROBERTS 770X tape recorder: Cross Field heads, sound on sound, sound with sound, 4 speeds. 
Call 3729. 
SAVE ON RECORDING TAPE! Cassette, reel, and 8·track; Ampex, BASF, Memorex, Sony, or TDK. Call Don: 3729. 
4-track car player FM Stereo cartridge. 2·8 ohm car speaker. Ca II Joe 283 6569. 
STEREO SPEAKERS . Exciting New Sound Unbeatable Buys. Call 283·8462. 
For Sale: '67 .Honda 305. $400. Call George 8427. 
Words lda 2da 3da 4da 5da 1·10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11·15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16·20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21·25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26·30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36·40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41·45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46·50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 








