On The Inside 
Hershey Preview ... page 2 
NO senior escorts Viet orphans to America ... page 4-5 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 47 Monday, November 13, 1972 
Alter ordeal ends in Havana 
Passengers of hijacked jet return 
by Richard Witkin shuttled more than 4,000 miles,setting down 
<(') N('w York Times at .Jackson, Miss., Cleveland, Toronto, 
Lexington, Ky., Chattanooga, Tenn., at 
New York. Nov. 12--A Southern Airways Havana for an initial two-hour stay, Key jet landed in Miami last night with 31 West. Orlando, and finally Havana again. exhausted passengers and crew members _ 
of a sisterplanehijacked to Cuba by three medical attention for three 
heavily armed gunmen in a 29-hour melodrama that frequently seemed on the ('dge of catastrophe. 
A~ent~ of the Fed~~al Bureau o~ In~ vestigatJOn were waitmg at the Miami field to interview the .retur!ling passengers and crew on their perilous experience--a nightmare marked by the s~ooting out ofth_e plane's tires i~ Orlando, ~.Ia., the woundmg o! the co-pilot and a lmal emergency landmg on foam-covered Havana runway. 
The t~ree hijackers were taken into custody m Cuba. 

wheels down on landing 
The co-pilot, Billy Haryloyd Johnson, who was shot in the shoulder as the twin­jet DC-9 left Orlando Saturday night for the final lap to Cuba, was taken to a Hialeah Hospital. It was not immediately known whether he was shot by one of the hijackers or by a stray bullet from one of the F.B.I. agents who had fired at the tires in hopes of preventing the take-off. 
After a long period of circling in the Havana area to burn off excess fuel, the jet came in wheels down, generating a spray 
, of sparks as its main-wheel hubs contacted the asphalt. For the passengers and crew, who had 
helpless!y been swept back and forth : across• the continent to nine different · airports, it was safety at last. Their journey had been rudely altered about 7:20 : P.M. Friday when the trio of hijackers, · two wanted in Detroit on rape charges and 
one a fugitive from a Nashville jail, took over the jet while it was en route from Birmingham. Ala., to Memphis. 
In the course of the next 29 hours, they 

It was at Chattanooga that the airline handed over a reported$2 million of the $10 million in extortion money demanded. 
"The three authors of the incident <the hijackers) gained money said by Cuban sources to be 2.5 million. 
A Cuban radio broadcast monitored in Miami, said three persons' had required medical attention. One was the copilot, a 37-year-old resident of College City, Ark. His wife said officials of Southern had told her her husband was in good condition. 
The other two were: an 83-year-old passenger originally thought to have possibly had a heart attack but later 
reported suffering only from shock; and a passenger with a fractured foot, possibly sustained in sliding down an escape chute after the Havana landing. 
The Havana radio reported the shooting out of the jet's tires by F.B.I. agents in Orlando, adding that as a result "the landing was carried out under the strictest pmergency conditions." 
safety jeopardized 

Neither F.B.I., other government, nor airline officials would reconstruct this decision-making or say who had finally given the order for shooting out the tires. 
But what industry ('Xperts were asking was why the action was taken, J.Jarticularly since it did not have the desired effect and 
jeopardized the safety of the landing in Havana, and might have produced a violent react ion from the jumpy hijackers. 
One explanation being offered was that officials finally decided that the situation was getting desperate and that it was safer to try to stop the plane than to let the hijackers continue with what looke<.! like ;1n open-ended flirtation with disaster. Tht'Y W<'re talking at the time of taking the :-.mall twin-engine jet in short North Atlantic hops io Switzerland. 
A second major question being asked in the industry was how the hijackers-­officially identified as Melvin Cale, 21 ~·ears old (the fugituve), Lewis D. Moore, '27. and Henry D. Jackson, 25--had been ablc to elude the screening system when they boarded at Birmingham. 
passenger checking fails 
Southern did have the system in operation. It is based on checking passengers to see if they show behavioral traits that have been found common to most hijackers. Ifso, they must be further <'hccked in at least one of three ways. Metal detectors may be used to check for wPapons on their persons or in their luggage. They may be asked for iden­tification. They may ultimately be frisked by law-mforcement officers. 
Well-informed sources in Washington said that all three hijackers had betrayed the telltale traits and that all had been subjected to scrutiny with a hand-held 
inw:al detector. 
'W'hat  was  not  yet  determined  was  
whether  the  detector  did  not  work  or  
whPther  its  readings  were  ignored  by  

Southern employees rushing off to com­plete boarding of the flight. 
relief plane lands 

Th<> relief plane that brought the passengers and crew back from Havana today landed at Miami's airport at 5:26 P.M. 
Four of those debarking, all men and one of them elderly, were taken off on stret­chers. They were put in ambulances, and rushed to hospitals in the are. 
While many details of the hijacking, one of the most frightening and bizarre in the 
annals of the air privacy, remained to be dt'<lr<'d up. somP facts were clarified.. 
Th<'rc had been reports that President 1\:ixon, wPekending in Key Biscayne might have giv('n the orders for the F.B.I. to keep :he hijacked plane from taking off from <>rl<mdo. 
president kept informed 
A spokesman at the Florida White HousP. asked about the reports, said: ''The White House was not involved in that." 
Th<' spokesman also disclosed that the hijackers. on two occasions nuring the hijacking. had asked to speak directly to the President. He added that several WhitP House aides has been informed of the n•quest but had felt "a conversation would not be productive." 
The President. however, was kept in­formPd of the hijacking, the spokesman said. 
Cuban officials involved 
Cuba's Premier. Fidel Castro, was somt'what more directly involved. He eame to Havana's Jose Marti airport the first time the hijacked Southernjet landed :here, and was reported to have tried to talk with the three gunment aboard. 
The attempt failed because the nervous hijackers wanted him to come aboard the plane instead of going out to meet him on :he ramp. Cuban security guards forbade this. 
One of the hijackers, wearing a bullet­proof vest obtained with the extortion money and covered by the guns· of his colleagues, did at one point leave to pursue negotiations with Cuban officials. The trio was demanding certain conditions before agrceing to debark, and the Cubans evidently balked. In any case, after twc hours of fruitless talks, the hijacko ~ dPcided to depart, and forced the plane ;r, :ake off for Key West. 

Resignation still stands 
Jean Seymour returns to finish semester at SMC 
Former Saint Mary's Student Body President Jean Seymour has returned to SMC to complete the present academic semester. The SMC senior plans to graduate with her class in May. 
Seymour resigned as SBP last Sunday elaiming that she was unable to hold the position because of personal reasons. At that time she planned to withdraw from the college. 

"My health would not permit me to do both student government and my academic work. Now, however, I am able . to devote myself fully to my studies," SPymour said yesterday. 
SPymour asked the college to disregard hPr r('quest for withdrawal. "My teachers ha V(' been most cooperative in allowing m<' to finish the semester," she noted, adding that this cooperation made the task of giving up student government easier. 
ThP cx-SBP added that she regreted tPrminating her active role in student government. "I have very much enjoyed all the student government activities that occured during my six months as student body president." 
SPymour and running mate Sue Welte were rlected to the top St. Mary's spots on 

Jean Se\'mour: my health would not March  2,  1972.  Welte  has  succeeded  
permit me to do both student govern­S<'ymour  as  the SMC  student  body  
ment and my academic work. pr<'sidPnt.  




the observer Monday, November 13, 1972 

warld briefs 
(c) 1!172 Nl'w York Times 
Moscow--The Soviet Union has indicated its first signs of impatience at delays in the signing of an Indochina cease-fire agrl'£'ment, while the United States hastens arms shipments to South Vietnam. "Emergency deliveries of arms could just put a mine under the still­unsigned agreement on the cease-fire and restoration of peace in Vietnam." warned the Soviet armed forces newspaper Krasnaya Zvedzda. 
Moscow--A group of scientific workers at Moscow's Institute for Natural Compounds has been illegally making .narc·ot ics. according to reports circulating among Soviet intellectuals. Reliable sources report that at least one person has been arrested and that 2.2 pounds of narcotics, possibly LSD, has been found at the Institute. If the report about LDS is correct, it would be the first time that its availability has been acknowledged in the Soviet Union. 
Washington--The officials in charge of the Nixon Administration's controls over wages, prices and rents are strongly disposed to narrow the program as a gradual step toward decontrol. They are also afraid, they have indicated, that the program is becoming excessively complex as more and more regulations and exceptions are issued. 

an campus taday 
3: 30..film, civilization, 'the pursuit of happiness: rococco music and art', engineering auditorium. 
7 :30--lecture, digger phelps, stanford-keenan chapel. 
7: 30--meeting, flying irish flying club, room 12, aerospace bldg. 
8: 00--poetry reading, john mathias, library lounge. 8:00, 10: 00--film, cinema '73: 'rules of the game', engineering auditorium. 
8:00--travelogue, 'florence and the heart of italy', o'laughlin auditorium. 
9:00.. jazz session, rev. george wiskirchen, 'current trends and practices of jazz-an overview', Iafortune. 

'Mr. Selective Service,' Hershey, to speak here tomorrow at 8 
NOTRE DAME -SAINT MARY'S THEATRE presents 


SUMMER AND SMOKE 
Tennessee William's beautifully fragile drama of frustrated love 
Washington Hall Notre Dame campus Nov. 10, 11, 16, 17, 18 at 8:30pm Students $1.50 Phone Reservations 284-4176 
by Don White 
Staff Rt-porter 
(;l'n<'ral Lewis B. Hershey, past Din•ctor of Selective Service and l'llrr£'nt Advisor to the President of !h<' Unit£'d States on Manpower l\lobilization. will give a lecture tomorrow at 8 p.m. in the Galvin 
I.if<' Auditorium. Sponsored by the Student Union Academic Com­mission, the free lecture is open to :h(• public. 
"Mr. Selective Service," as ( ;pneral Hershey is universally known. was born in Angola, In­diana in 1893. His military career prior to his association with S{'lective Service began when he mlisted as a private in the Indiana National Guard of February 16, 1911. He was not yet eighteen, but h<' wanted to go to Indianapolis "where the Guard trained every summer." 
With 62 years of active duty and four stars on his shoulder, llrrshey is now the second-ranking g<'neral in the Army. The only p<'rson with more active duty time is Omar Bradley, also the Army's only five star general. "But he will still be on active duty when he r<'tires," jested Hershey during a t<'l<'phone interview. 
ll£'rshey's affiliation with S(•l('ctive Service started in 1936 wh£'n. as a major. he became s<.'cretary and executive officer of the Joint Army and Navy Selective S{'rvice Committee. This com­mittee was established under the National Defense Act to study and. plan for manpower procurement in th<' event of national emergency. 
Recognizing the grave in­ternational situation, the Joint S£'lective Service Committee had t>stablished a National ll£'adquarters and alerted all groups which were to put state plans into operation by mid­summ£'r of 1960. The nucleus of this nationwide organization was n•ady to function immediately· when the Selective Training and SPrvice Act of 1940 was enacted on September 16, 1940. 
Under Lt. Col. Hershey's supervision, more than 16 million nwn were registered on October 
16. 1940. This initial registration, how('ver. would see 16 million men 

the staff 
Night editor: Marlene Zloza Ass't night editor: Chris Sullivan Layout: Kathy Kelly Center spread: Joe Abell 
Typists: Mary Rpmer, John 
Flannigan, Howard Halle, Bob 
Barringer, Richatd Meloy 
Day editor: Tom Bornholdt 
Pictureman: Jerome 
Early escapee: John 
Night controller: David Rust 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the l'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchesed tor sa per semester ( 14 per year) from the Observer, lox Q, Notre Dame, 1ndiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 



Student union invites you to spend an evening with 
YES 
"~e~ completely captivated their audience by blending their bnlhant vocal harmony with an equally brilliant display of thoroughly precise musicianship/' -Cash Box 
"YES are something specia I!" -Sounds 
''... intelligent, memorable, uncluttered melodies and arrangements." -Richard Cromelin 
~­
"YES have started masses of perhaps not very sophisticated record buyers to thinking more about what music really is '' -Words & Music · 
~'The band firmly and beautifully manipulates the whole of 1ts gargantuan sound." -Rolling Stone 
There are still some good $4.50 and $2.75 seats available at the ACC Ticket Office and the Student Union Ticket Office. 



PLACEMENT BUREAU 
INTERVIEWS FOR WEEK OF NOVEMBER 27 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up sched­ules are in Room 207, Main Bldg. Interview times must be selected and signed for in person. Hours are 8:00 a,m. to 5:00p.m. each day, except Friday. The Placement Manual gives additional informa­tion regarding interviews and procedures. 
NOTE: The interviews listed below will take place after Thanksgiving. There will be no interviews during Thanksgiving week. 

actually drafted into the Armed Forces before expiration of the 1940 Act on March 31, 1947. 
Promoted to Brigadier General on October 25, 1940, Aershey was appointed Deputy Director and Executive Officer of the Selective S£'rvice System by President Hoosevelt on December 19, and then named as its Director on July 31, 1941. He held this position until the Selective Service Act expired in March, 1947. 
Congressional legislation macted shortly before this time called for the establishment of the Office of the Selective Service Hecords. With Hershey named as its director on· Aptil 1, 1947, its responsibilities called for the liquidation of the Selective Service 
All degrees, all majors. 

S~st('m, and the preservation and 
NOV. 27 The Trane Company.

maintenance of Selective Service 
& 28 BS in Ch.E., C.E,, E.E., A.E. BS, MS in M.E.

rrcords containing data for some 51 million men. 
NOV. 28 Allied Chemical Corporation. BS in Chern., Ch.E., M.E. and E.E.

A 1948 act reestablished the 
Long Island Lighting Company.

SC'lective Service System and 
BS i.n E.E. and M.E.

Hershey was once again named as 
Pfizer Inc. 

dir£'ctor on July 17. Appointed 
BS, MS in Ch.E., M.E., Met., M.E.I.O. Procter & Gamble -'sales Mgt,

Li£'UtE.'nant General in 1956, and 
All BA, MA, BBA and MBA.

GPneral in 1969, Hershey held the posit ion of Director of the Selective 
NOV. 28 General Motors Corporation. 
& 29 BS in E.E., Engr.Sci., M.E.I.O. and Met. BS, MS, Ph.D. in M.~. Ph.D. in Ch.E. BBA in Acct. and Mgt. 

S(•rvice System under six Pr£'sidents. 'up through and in­cluding Richard Nixon. The 79­
NOV. 29 Harrison Radiator Division -Gen. Motors Corp.

~·£'ar old Hershey finally retired as 
BS in M.E. and M.E.I.O. BBA in Acct. and Mgt. 
Hydra-matic Division -Gen. Motors Corp. BS in M.E., M.E.I.O. and Met. BBA in Acct., Mgt. 

th£' System's director on February 
14. 1970. 
NOV. 29 Electronic Data Systems Corp. 

(continued on page 6) 
NOV .JO Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New York. All BRA and MBA for Sales and Sales MF.t. Chica,zo area. 
DEC, 1 Goldman, Sachs 6c Co. MBA. For Sales and Investment Ranl<in~. Intervi.-winp, for various locations throup.hout the country. Youngstown Sheet and Tub~ Co. BS in C.E., E.F.., fo:ngr.Sci., H.E., M.E.I.O., Math. 
Employpr information. Alternativ<>o;. Teac"oing. SuJTmer. Action/Peacp Corps/Vista. Fedpral Service. Room 222, Administration Bl~g. 
11/9/72 


Monday, November 13, 1972 the observer 

3 
Thieu Dtodifies his total opposition 
hy Fox Ruttt>rfield 'l'l 1\t•w Y m·k Times 
Sai~nn. Nn\' .12--Following two davs of talks with White House Pnvoy GPn. Alexander M. Haig Jr.• Pn•sident Nguyen Van Thieu has modifi<'d his total opposition to the draft lfnitrd States-North Viet­namPS<' p('<H'<' s<'ttlemmt. but he is still unwilling lo fully accept it, informPd Vietnam<'sf' and Anwril'an officials said today. f\;orth Virtnam withdraw all its 
In what Thieu evidently con­!roops from the south before a sid<'r<'d an important concession, cPasP-fir<'. After such a public Ill<' sourc<'s r£'port. he told Haig he ph·dg<'. Saigon wuuld then be able could agr<'<' to the nine-point ~o <ll'l'('pt a "gradual withdrawal" '-t'tll<'m<·nt if North V:Ptnamwould of what it <•stimates to be 300,000 <lt )past piPdgc "in principle" to f\;orth Vi<'tnam<'se soldiers. withdraw its troops from South \'iPtnam. Thipu's two other basic ob­
Such an agr('eml'nt in principle, it'<'l ions to the proposed settlement otw well placed South Vietnamese can now lw "pasitly worked out", '-OIIrl'P said. would not satisfy ~ hP South •Vietnam<'se source Thit•u's n•pPatPrl d<'mand that .trld('d. 
Student gov't care program 

Popcorn plan announced 
Iknnis Etienne. student body 
'  i<.'('-pn•sirlmt.  announced  today  
:h<•  format ion  of  a  "care-type"  
program  lor  the  relief  of  the  

sl rickPn rPsid<'nts in Holy Cross Hall on tht• Saint Mary's College ('ampus. 
Tlw program. which stems from an incidPnt in which a Holv Cross n•sidm: wa:-; campused for pop­ping popcorn in her room, '' dl 
<'ncourageilnd promote the sending 
of cart' hox<'s of popcorn from the 
l\ I> community to !he stricken hall. 
Tht> op<•ration of a popper is a dirt'l'l ,·iolation of a SMC rule. Similar rulPs also apply to the "moking of cigarettes and cigars. 
Tlw can•-typ<' program will be und<·r thP Ministry of Propaganda. lndi,·iduals interrsted in helping ~h<· rPsidmts of Holy Cross hall by popping pop<·orn, packing care paekagPs, or donating 'Nikoban' 
Jazz continues tonight in student center 
Aft Pr a successful SRO first con<·Prt in th<' LaFortune Lounge the WP<'kly "Jazz at Nine" series I'Ontinues with a l£'cture-discussion on jazz at ~):00 P.M. in the Fiesta I .oung<' of thr Student Center on 1\londaY. Nov<'mber 13th. 
<'urrf.·nt tn•nds and practices in nw jan world wiJI be discussed .md ('\'r'uat<'d with sonically­
•llustrated t•xamples of the present "ork of Archir Shepp. Miles Davis, <•rn<'lt P Col<'man. Paul Winter, Wt·ath<•r lh•port, Bill Evans and <;t>org<• Bussell. 
Tlwn• will be no admission chargt• for this event that will hop<'fully answ<'r questions about what is going on today in the world or .iaII. Th<· discussion wiJJ be lead by Bt·v. (;(•orge Wiskirchen, <'.S.C.. llir<'ctor of the Jazz Band. 


.1rt' 1·neour:tgt'd to do so in­t·alm in this mom<'nt of crtsis. 
di\'idually. or under the direction Spl·aking from the president's of S:udPnt (;O\'<'rnmPnt. offici' in l.aFortun<' Student Center I 'opl'orn ~hould b<.' salted, but not F! imnl' ~aid. "an operation of this huttt'r<•d lor ~hipment. The pop­m.1gnit ud<• n•quires :he active part ieipat ion of <'V<'ry member of
'·orn -.,houlct lw plac<'d into plastic ~lw !\;I>-Sl\1(' communitY. This
hags. '-('al<'d and placed into rdid dfort can be ri\'aiPd only by 
,·,mlboard hox<'s. All packages !lw Bl'rlin Airlift."
•hould lw s<'nt to Holy Cross hall 
-.,inl'<' this hall apprars to be in the Humwrs an• rwPd<'d to carry the popcorn to Holy Cross hall. The
most distrPss. Oth<'r halls will be 1\1 in ist ry of Propaganda is asking
•ndudt'd 
on the care package m.tiling list as soon as a need is tor' olunt<'<'rs. P<'rsons interested 

•·st 
ahlishPd. in lwlping in this relief effort 


F: i<•mw. in an <.'mergency "hould contact Notre Dame 
llli'Pt ing with his advisors. asked ~: udPnt govPrnmrnt in LaFortune ~hat :hl' Nll-SMC community keep Stud('nt <'<'nter. or phone 7668. 
ThPse are. that the settlement doPs not provide for the rt'('stablishment of the d<•militarized zone as the boundary l)('tW('('n North and South '\'iet:­nam. and that the working of the draft s('ttlemrnt impties that the joint commission to hold new elect ions will be a form of coalition go\'<'rnm<'nl. Thieu has adamantly n•jpctPd any plan that involved l'oalit ion governm£'nt because he IPars it would lead to Communist ~ ak('O\'('r. 
Thl' South Vietnam('se source l'onfirmPd that after Thieu's more ~han fi\'(' hours of talks with Haig, who is ll!•nry A. Kissinger's Chief I kputy. hP gave Haig a letter for I 'n•sid('nt Nixon. However, the '-OIIrl'l' said. :he letter was mostlv I•IH' of "l'OUrtesy" and did not rnrlicatt' Thi<'U was prepared to 
•HTt'pl a SPt t1Pm£'nl. 
This wrsion of the secret talks in !lw pn•sid<'nt ial palace was sub­": ant ially confirm<'d by qualified l ·.S. officials. who said that while -.,onw progr<'ss had been made, "basic diff<'rences of position n•main.·· 
ln thP only official American "t at('nwnt on the talks, a U.S. r·mbass~ spokesman said this morning as llaig left Tansonnhut Arrport for Pnompenh, Cambodia, !hat th<' nw<'tings were "cordial .md constructive." 
Th<' key question now, one of­ficial r<'marked. is how long Nixon <md Kissing<'r are willing to put u~~ wi: h Thi<•u 's opposition to their\ cardullv plann<'d settlemPnt. The South Vietnam<'selead<>r himselfi~ un~ur<', :he official comm<'nted~ ;md h<• is "playing a brand new tfall 
gam<'  wh<'r<'  no  one  knows  the  
rult•s."  
Tht• offieial  spt•culated: that  in  

tlw I'aris rwgot !atio'ls Kissinger ma~· ha V<' purpos1ly ;n·oidt>d d<•m;mding that Hanoi withdraw all its troops. since it would be ;tlmost impossihl<' ~o 0nforce such .1 prO\ Jston. JJ1stead. the official "ugg(•stt>d. Kissinger may ha\'e hP<'n giV<'n som<' tacit un­d,•rs: anding by Hanoi that it ".mtt'd :o pull b<H'k some troops trom lh<' South. 
\'i!•tnall11'S(' soUrCPS in the pn•sid<•ntial palac<' reported today :hat llaig had in fnr'' t0ld Thieu the l'nit<'d S:at('s h<.d L1cen given in­dieat ions that North Vietnam \\ ould 'oluntaril~' withdraw at kas: somt' of it~ :roops. 
llaig fl<'w !rom Saigon to I 'nom p<•nh : o eonfer briefly with Cambodian Pn•sident Lon No1. and from hl'rP he was scheduled to go ~o St•otll for talks with South Kor<'an Presid<'nt Park Chung Ike. South Kor<'a still has 37,000 troops in Vietnam. 5,000 more than the total of lT.S. troops still here. 


Boeing is back. 
This fall marks the first time since 1969 that Boeing has had a formal recruiting pro­gram on college campuses. A lot has happened since then. It was a tough period. OnP. which saw the aerospace in­dustry plagued with man­power reductions. It was a period of belt tightening, soul searching, and finally, accomplishment. 
Now the airline in­dustry has turned the cor­ner and jetliner orders are coming faster than we ever predicted. Orders for the 727­200 have passed the 1,000 mark, and the sale of ten 707's to China represents a break­through which gained worldwide attention. 
Boeing continues to pursue vigorously a number of major aerospace programs, includ­ing a short takeoff and landing (STOL) air­craft, helicopters, the Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS), and space vehicles and equipment, among others. 
Boeing Computer Services, Inc., a wholly­owned subsidiary, is becoming recognized as a broad based company with services not only in consulting, training, computer system de­sign, programming, and data processing, but also in management, operations research, and management of customer computer facilities. 
While the major elements of our business continue to be commercial jet transportation and government defense and space require­ments, we have begun activities outside these 

traditional areas. Measured on the scale of total company operations, these diversifica­tion activities don'tloom very large yet. But we believe they have potential for 
the future and could represent as much as 25 percent of total sales in a decade. A few of these pro­
grams are: 1) people movers to unclog traffic conditions in our cities; 2) hydrofoils to move people and freight over water faster; 3) a 100,000-acre test site where we're growing crops in a desert that has been stabilized with garbage from a nearby city; 4) a pollution control process that has application in de­salination and as a treatment of industrial waste; and 5) aerospace programs that can lead to a better understanding of how to 
use  this planet's natural resources  more  
efficiently.  
The point is-today Boeing is  a  lean,  

ambitious, and very inventive company. A place where new ideas flourish. Where an attitude prevails that nothing we did before is good enough for tomorrow. An organization that's rebuilding. Strong. Healthy. And de­voted to the development of new systems that can keep planet Earth on course and the people who live here healthy. 
If this sounds like the kind of company you can grow with, let's get together. The place to start is with your Placement Office. 
IIOEINii 
An equal opportunity employer. 
the observer Monday, November 13, 1972 
A new life for outcasts 
by Joseph Abell Managing Editor 
Imagine a room, one not much larger than a classroom. It has no desks, no tables, no shelves; its only outstanding feature is the floor: a cold, hard slab of concrete. Now imagine about fifty to sixty babies l.ving on that floor without mattresses, sheets or nlankets. A few kick and cry at the hundreds of flies l>ttzzing around their naked bodies, but most are quiet, too weak to even move. They are fed perhaps once a dav. and their wastes are cleaned up maybe once every fm;r or five hours. Meanwhile the only life they know is <'ndless waiting on the bare concrete floor. 
Such is the fate of many Vietnamese children living in orphanages in their home country, according to Phil Conroy. a senior NROTC midshipman. And he has a source of information better than any Vietnam War propagandizer: he's 1:-~n there. 
Last summer, Phil and three other Notre Dame nndshipmen went on a summer cruise near Vietnam. Phil was assigned to the USS Midway, stationed off the North Vietnamese coast. While on this short tour of ctutv Phil became aware of a situation not so much 
Phil shares a few laughs with two

publlcized in the United States: the adoption dilemna 
orphans at Tan Binh before leaving

of Vietnamese orphans, most with American GI 
for Saigon. The departure was a
fathers. by American families. 
tearful one for these boys, for they

Before the summer was out, that awareness was to 
were unable to return with Phil.

blossom into his escorting seventeen Vietnamese or­phans, ranging in age from eight months to five years, to their new American homes in Ohio, Nebraska, Iowa and New York. 
Phil's job: to speed up the immigration process by fabricated documents and tht"I wanted to help" 
continuously prodding the Vietnamese officials. The dead, children. After his mandatory duty had been completed, he difficulties were immense. "My Vietnamese brother. recalled, "I wanted to see what the war had done to the certificate," he mentioned. ' 
"Lots of red tape"
country. My own family had been through adoption "Other problems includedt procedures for two orphans last year, so I knew some "There was a lot or red tape," Phil recounted. phanages, approval of a paren of the problems involved. But when I got over there, I "First of all, there's the Viet government passports. often simply give their child became aware of other adoptions from U.S. families These were free, but the problem was that to leave the without the proper docurnenl having problems. I wanted to help." country, you had to be a National." tificates, to allow adoption ·-"~ 
He contacted the Chief of Naval Operations, Admiral This problem is a major one in the adoption process, medical examinations and va Zumwalt, for permission to go into Vietnam <Naval he added. Vietnamese regulations require that any 
All pr·ocl•dures allregulations forbid NROTC midshipmen from visiting emigrant have an official birth certificate, and only the country near which they take their summer Vietnamese Nationals, which half-American children He emphasized that adoJcruise>. After receiving his permission, and the are not recognized as, are issued such certificates. 
already been started by the pe:permission of the Commander of United States "It's really a shame, since there are something like involved. The longest had beeMilitary Assistance Command, Vietnam fifty to sixty families in America for each child two years, the shortest for a•( COMUSMACV>, Gen. Frederick Weyand, both available for adoption," he said. The supply and "Ordinarily, a child will be'through the intervention of Phil's own senator, Carl demand are both great, but the Viet laws cause many Ihe bottom of the stack to geCurtis (Rep.-Neb.), he bgan a long month of red tape, problems in the procedures. 
plained. "And only recently tttravelling and adventures in Vietnam that lead him One solution was offered by the French government to allow children to be releasethrough such varied places as the American Embassy at the time of French withdraw! in 1954. When those the adoption. This left it open in Saigon, many small South Vietnamese hamlets and forces left, all children sired by French soldiers, and escort the children home b4 even one war zone. He found willing assistance from whether legitimate or not, were left with a legacy: finished.''
such officials as Admiral Zumwalt, Secretary of French citizenship, entitling them to free eduction and This, he added, solves what tDefense Melvin Laird, and Senator Curtis. And most of other benefits. Many thousands took t.he French the time element.
all, he found a lot of work cut out for him. government up on their offer and travelled to France. 
"The amount of time involPhil's first stop was the office of Do Ngoc Phu, a However, the United states has yet to provide such an years, and in that time a child • Vietnamese lawyer that specializes in adoption of offer. 
statistics that claim that a1orphans by American parents. Phu filled him in on the The-solution to the American problem, then'? 
fatalities in orphans in soil
problems and the best courses of action of the adoption Fabricated birth certificates. Phil estimated that 
resulting mainly firm sanitatio procedures, and between the two of them, a plan was nearly one-third of all Vietnamese adoptions involve children to suffer from malnutJformed to expedite the adoption of seventeen children. such cerificates, usually taking two forms: totally parasites. 
"This is mostly in the Bud quickly added, where the BU( 


donations to the orphanage for the children in conditions simil the beginning of this article. 
The figures are not so bad j which he dealt, however. Sr. M Tan Binh orphanage in Cam heads a small outfit that accep month, oftentimes babies si sisters' arms in the marketpl<i and care for them until some4 until they become old enough 
Most of these babies are the i American soldiers and Vietn which are prostitutes and b estimate the number of such wa 15,000 mark. Some guesses re~ 
"Sr. Lieu helped out the mosl a lot of the manipulations project." Phil mentioned. 
A spf•r ia I.• 
Phil also visited tv.. ;)ther travels: the Viet HoP a .d .~e V was at the Vung Tau orphang Buddhist orphana~-,e! tho,gh 
A short stopover at a Saigon orphanage provides a rest for twelve of the travellin· children before the long flight to their r~ ­homes. For both Nguyen Van Due (left, back t:OW) and Nguyen Anh Dung (third from lett, front row) the journey was one of life or death. Both children were given less than a week to live by American doctors upon arrival. Both recovered, Due from pneumonia, Dung from an ear infection. 

Y.-.. 
-...--~ : ~--· 
use of those of other, 
has another child's 
releases from the or­" --parents in Vietnam ·en to the orphanages ;; such as birth cer­r approval of relatives, ious fees." 
eady begun 
~tion procedures had sons and organizations r in progress for nearly )Ut six weeks. tdopted, but he'll be at 
a passport," Phil ex­e laws were liberalized I before completion of for someone 'o help out fore the procedures are 
m be a vital problem: 
•ed 
can be months or 

•ill 
often die." He cited 


much as 80 percent e areas, a situation 1 problems, causing the ition, lung diseases and 
:lhist orphanages," he dhist monks often sell 1ersonal gain and keep tr to those described at 
rt the orphanages with try Lieu, director of the Ranh, South Vietnam, s several children each nply thrust into the !!e. They feed, clothe, ne can adopt them or 
o care for themselves. legitimate offspring of tmese girls, many of lr girls. Authorities r orphans at around the has high as 20,000. , because she managed ;o necessary for the 
luty 
1rphanages during his mg Tau orphanages. It ~ that he heard of the te never actually saw 
photos courtesy 
the department of the navy The large earpieces, nicknamed Mickey Mouse ears, protect human ears from the deafening, unmuffled roar of helicopter engines. 
tlwm. And Vung Tau was on his agenda, not to check on departing orphans, but for one reason: a special dutv for a friend. 
"Dr. IThomasl Werge has had adoption procedures under way since March, and he asked me to see the orphan h~ wants to adopt," Phil said. He took photos of a small baby girl named Tran smiling from a tiny wooden crib, and added that English professor Dr. WPrge hoped to leave the week of Thanksgiving for Saigon to help expedite adoption procedures. 
"HP's having problems with the adoption," Phil said, describing the main difficulty as dealing with the child's reluctant guardian. 
"The guy keeps asking for more money before he'll 
give up the birth certificate," Phil said. "He ·pven tually was arrested for something else, and since he can't keep the certificate in jail, procedures for a new one have been started." 
Tlw t·t•lurn homt' 

Finally. at the beginning of August, Phil was ready to return with his entourage to the United States. AtnPrican officials stepped in to help out at this point. 
Communications with the American families had to he completed before the children could leave, and Phil cites the MARS !Military Affiliate Radio System) network as the biggest help. This organization of ham radio operators, which normally transmits and receives personal messages of military personnel, completed an electromagnetic link from Saigon to San Francisco so long-distance telephone calls could be ntnde to the families. 
Other authorities, most notably Secretary oi Defense 1\klvin Laird and the State Department, helped out at the actual departure time. 
The State Department provided help via the American Embassy in Saigon ("They gave us all the help we needed.">, and Secretary Laird insured the use of Navy helicopters to whisk the children from the two orphanages, Viet Hoa and Tan Binh, to a central 
tneeting point in Saigon. 
Once in Saigon, the group of seventeen was split into two groups, the first leaving with registered nurse Bonnie Bickel, who delivered them to San Francisco, where their new parents met them, on August 10. Phil brought the remaining eight the next day to his hometown of Omaha, from which they were met by their new parents and taken to their respective new homes. 
Trip savt>d livt>s 

"For some of the orphans, the trip literally saved their lives," Phil said. As soon as one child reached his new home, doctors discovered he had pneumonia. "He was taken to the hospital and put under intensive care for a few days. He was eventually in the hospital for ten days." 
Another had an infection of the middle ear, a type that causes eventual deafness, and was described as "very painful." 
"The doctors wondered how the kid stood it," Phi! recounted, adding that the pain would have killed the child within a week. The doctors were able to relieve that pain and save the child's life. 
lll('l"t'dibll' l"l'SpOilS(' 

The response he met upon his return was tremen­dous. Hundreds of letters and telephone calls greeted him from parents who believed he brought back children regularly. And some of the calls were a little less than believable, according to Phil: 
"One family called and wanted a child by the next week. They hadn't even started adoption procedures, and they thought I could bring them one. They said they wanted 'it' to show off at a family reunion." 
Phil also said that parents are not able to simply apply and receive a child; they must be very thoroughly screened by many agencies, including the Alllerican Welfare department, various state agencies, and the Vietnamese adoption agencies. 
And despite this, it is still very hard to get a Viet­namese child: special contacts are a must. 
"You really have to know somebody to do it," Phil said regretfully, adding that he felt that "it makes no sense to have a child die in Vietnam orphanage when there's so many people wanting to adopt them." 
A rt'union 

Recently, Phil journeyed to Cleveland for a special meeting: a reunion of some of the children and their new parents. 
Though not all of the nine former orphans in the Cleveland area made it to the reunion ("Some of them live way out in the sticks''), Phil said he "got a chance to see just about all of the kids." 
He discovered that the children had had no problems in adjustment to their new mode of living at all. The parents had been apprehensive 'about the adjustment of the children to the comparatively richer American food, but they reported that ''the kids seemed to handle anything thrown at them." 
Phil wa~ impressed with some of the families that had adopted the seventeen he brought back. 
Bonnie Birkel, the registered nurse that later took nine of the children to San Francisco, comforts 2-year old Nguyen Van Due on the helicopter ride from Tan Binh. 

( ' ' Monday, November 13, 1972 the observer 5 j 
The stopover in the Saigon airport produced a few happy faces as 
Nguyen Tien Hung insisted that his hand would make a better subject for PhiI than the other children. The victor? Nguyen Tien Hung, of course: his hand admirably taking the place of anothE-r boy's face. 

"One family had nine children, two biological and seven adopted. And the seven came from a wide background, some part black, some part Japanese, and others. This was their first Vietnamese child. I was taken aback, and wondered what they'd want with another one. until I got to know the family." 
Phil said the families anticipated no further problems of adoption. All but two of the orphans' papers had been cleared through the Vietnamese and American authorities. "If you get the child home, it's over the hill. 
"The only hitch some of them have is that some states, Ohio and Nebraska are two --don't legally recognize a foreign adoption. It's just a formality, however, to readopt the child in that state," he said. 
"A rt>warding experience" 
He summarized his feelings by saying that "it was a very rewarding experience. I'd like to help out more families sometime in the future, and eventually get into a sort of peace-corps program in the Navy later 
on.'' 
Perhaps the Vietnamese orphanages haven't seen the last of Phil Conroy. 

the observer Monday, November 13, 1972 


Weekend war action 
U.S.bombingraidscontinue 
b,· .hunt's P. Sterba I ,:l l\t•w \"m·k Times 
Sai~cm. South Vit>tnan{. Nov. 12-­l\1 ilitary spokesmen reported today th:-t.t heavy Communist <~rtill<'ry barrages and American bombing raids highlighted ViC'tnam w<~r at·tion ovrr the weekend as 'oth :-;idrs continued to move supplif's into South Vietnam in antit'ipation of a possible cease­
tin•. 
Bienhoa Airbasr, 17 miles north 
of Saigon. was hit by 45 122-mm 
roekt'ts Parly this morning,killing 
thn'P childrC'n. wounding ten both 
1wrsons. dC'stroying a napalm 
s:orag<• dt'pot containing about 150 
cannist<•rs and damaging one 
South Vit'tnam<•se Air Force F-5 
1ighc•r-bomber. Thirteen 
Anwricans Wt're reportedly 
iniurPd. 
;nw hasp is one of several into 
\\ hich AmPrican transport planes 
h<~v<' bt>C'n airlifting large amounts 


Hershey to 
(continued from page 1) Still on active duty, Gen. Her­sht•y was appointed as Special Advisor to the President on 1\lanpowC'r Mobilization on Fc>bruary 16, 1970, two days after his retirement from the Selective SC'rvice System. In this capacity, ht' advises the President on national mobilization for any purpose, military of otherwise. IIPrshev's decorations and awards. both civilian and military, would fill a book. He is one of only 24 p£'rsons who have been awarded 
"What do Notre Dame students know about sexuality?" and "What rt'levance does Christianity have for those deciding about pre­marital intercourse?"--these are :-;omP of the questions treated in tomorrows Campus Ministry 
program. 
The discussion--"Human 
S<•xuality and the Notre Dame 
Student: Two Viewpoints"--will be 
held tomorrow evening, November 
14th. at 8 p.m. in Washington Hall. 
Two perspectives of the topic will 
l)(' offered by Rev. David Burrell, 
C.S.C. and Dr. Gerald Giantonio. Thl'ir opening remarks will be followl•d by audience par­ticipation. 
"Th£' purpose of this program will bl' to provide an opportunity for students to hear two highly-
r..~,,,,,,.""''~=*"-'~S~.. 

of W<'apons and supplies during the last two WPt'ks. It is located about :hret' miles from the U.S. army's formPr headquarters, which was : urnt'd over to the South Viet­nam<'se army yesterdcay. 
Tht• hl•aviest of some 69 Com­munist shelling attacks reported in :h(.• 24 hours (.•nding this morning ''as <tgainst South Vietnamese marines north of Quangtri Cith and justsouth of the demarcation line. 'I'Iwre. 1,000 artillery, rocket and mortar sht'lls hit the marine positions. killing seven troops and wounding 29 others, a South \"i<'tnam<•se spokesman said. 
H-52 bombers flew six three­plan£' raids over the same : l'rritory. five other such raids '' ('rl' concentrated aginst susJH'(.'tl'd Communist troop lo<.·ations about 20 miles south of l'leiku City in the central highlands. These were among 21 ~ueh missions flown over South 
ere:lw eapital i~ the t·n·n~ ot a ~ease­

Speak h 
·,n·. Aeeordmg to Alhed officers. 
:hP Distinguished S£'rvice Medal of Indiana. his home state's highest award. 
Eight colleges and universities hav<' conferred honorary degrees upon the . \"eteran, including In­dtana, OhiO State, and Columbia llniv£'rsities. as well as Tri-State CollegeinAngola,Ind.,ofwhichhe is a trustee. 
l~<·rshe~ has also been very ae: IV(' wtth the Boy Scouts of Am<•rica. serving as President of the National Area Council from 1961-1967. 
'Sexuality at ND'will be discussed Nov. 14 
qualified mPn reflect in a very specific and personal way on an issut' of deep concern," according to Father Thomas McNally, C .S.C.. Associate Director of Campus Ministry, who is Chairman for the event. 
Burrt>ll. chairman of the theology department, is a I<~ulbright. Woodrow Wilson and K(•nt Fdlowship winner. In ad­dition to his academic duties, he is ;Jssistant rector of Grace Hall and has bPen a counsellor and friend of Notre DamP students for many years. 
Giantonio is an assistant professor of psychology, and currently teaching a very popular l"ourse. "Topics in Human Sc·xuality." in which 100 students ar£' <'nrolled. 
~-,~=~'""'''-'='<=!<!~===:>::=<====<~<=<====<:=:=:::~~,,,,,<,,,,,,<,==,,,,,,:,:,:<.,:;:::1 

, TIRED OF THE 
=~ HI-FI RIP-OFF??? 
Listen to what Steve's got, a lot BETTER SOUND for a lot LESS MONEY. 
.0.. .~...
··••· .... 
~~~ 232 Stanford Hall, 283-8650 ~~~~ ~~ ~~ [~~~ Speakers, Stereo Receivers ~~ 
I.,.. I.. 
::::: 8-track Tape Decks ?.! 
~ ~
* ~ 
l:;~:;=*-;~~~~~~.~~~::~:~~~~!t~:gi.~?.~;:;:.~:~ 
\'iPtnam. Twt'lve other missions wt•n• aim<'d at supplies in North \'iptnam. south of the 20th parallel. 
Th<• raids over the North also llldud<'(.' more than 240 tactical air strik<'s by planes based on aircraft l'arri<'rs and at bases in Thailand: 12~1 mort' tactical raids were flown o\·t•r South Vit'tnam. the American military command reported. 
A third ht'avy Communist mortar barrage \\:as reported in :lw l'<•n: ral coast province of Binh­
tinh. A South Vietnamese army spok<'sm;m said Saigon infantry position wPrt' hit by about 300 
nwr;ar shdls fivt' miles south of Hongson. and 15 more mortars and roekl'ts hit South Vietnamese ;trm~· basl's nt'arby. 
S<.·attert'd fighting was reported ~s mil<•s north ot ~aigon in Binh­duong provinet'. 
For lh<' last month up to 5,000 ('ommunist troops have been n·port l'l' moving from the Cam·­hodian border toward Saigon. l'rt'sumably to be in position near 
most of th<' hamlets the Com­mtmist:-; have tried to occupy 
rluring the last month's fighting .tre se:tl(.•ments where the Viet­("ong was traditionally supported hy :he people. 
In the ar£'a nt'ar the capital the ( ·ommunists have not made any 
·tfort to s£'ize district towns, provineial capitals. or hold 'illagl's wht're they did not feel lh<•y had popular backing. 
By <'Ontrast. in the recent fighting in :ht• ePntral highlands, the North \'iPtnaml'st' have concentrated on owrrunning the isolated border posts rwar their Cambodian and I,;tOt ian bast' art'as. 
In Navv airraids over North \"il•tnam. pilots rPportt'd hitting 26 :rucks. :l railPd bridges, 2 highway hridg1•s. to warehouses. 2 boxcars, 1 :ank and 4 other armored lwhid<'s. They also reported hitting thP runway at Baithuong Airlkld. Ql miles northwest of Thanhoa 16 times. 
POETRY READINGS John Matthias Ernest Sandeen Mary Pat Quinlan Dan O'Donnell MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13 
8:00 pm Library Lounge 

-, 




UMAN SEXUALITY 
and the NOTRE DAME STUDENT: two v1ewpo1nts

• 

Prof. G. G iantonio Rev. David Burrell Mod·erator: F. Giuffrida 
Tues. Nov.14 8:00p.m. Washington Hall 

sponsored by campus ministry 
7

Monday, November 13, 1972 the observer 




leers sweep Wolverines 5-2~ 8-5 
hy Stan lft·ankar 
Notre Dame's WCHA hockey fortune~ were Ia unched suc­cPs~fullv over the weekend, as the Irish fot1ght off sluggish defensive performances to sweep a four­point s<.'ries with Michigan. Paul Jkgan. Eddie Bumbacco, and Ian Williams combined for 11 goals and nine assists, with each m<'mber of that trio scoring a thr<'<'-goal "hat trick", and the 1 rish took a pair by ~cores of 5-2 and R-5. 
ll<'spite the continued display of offensive power. coach "Lefty" Smith noted the need to shore up the defense. "We'll have to do much better when we. go out to D<'nver this weekend," com­mented the Notre Dame boss. "Allowing seven goals is a very poor job." 
"The team realizes this, though." Smith added. "Wp've cleared the first major hurdle of our goals--a sweep at home. Now we have to make sure to go out and do it on the road." 
Assistant coach Tim McNeill 
also emphasized the need for 
backline improvement. "We have 
to maintain a eonsistent team 
balanced defense if we're to 
succeed in the WCHA," McNeill 
noted. "We were fortunate to open 
at home against Michigan, but now 
we have to look ahead." 
Though both games were won by 
three goal margins, Michigan was 
much closer than the score in­
dicated due mainly to the play of 
their outstanding goalie, Robbie 
1\loore. The 5'5" freshman made 
:n saves in Friday's game, and was 
going strong with 16 in about a 
p<·riod and a half of the finale 
before a ~evere knee injury forced 
him out of action. 
"That kid is going to be one 
super goalie," co-captain Regan 
r<'marked after the opener. ­
"Their defense is young and really 
hurts them 'but, without Moore, 
Michigan would be in even worse 
shape." 
As luck would have it, the 
Wolverines were struck with just 
that situation with 8:05 to go in 
Saturday's second session, and the 
score k~otted at 3-3. Soph Roy 
Bolles was forced into his first rwtminding duties of the season, and :h(' Irish capitalized quickly \\ ith thr<'<' goals for a 6-4 ad­' antag<' they nev('r relinquished. 
Bumhacco. top Irish scorer on th<' wartnine goals. <'ight assists> ;md. 1\1 ichigan 's Gary Kardos t•xchang<'d first period scores, then l\1 it:hPI .krrv and Pierre Sarazin mateh<>d taliies by Regan and Ric Schalt-r bcfor(' Moore was helped off the ic<'. 
With th<' "Fanatics" howling at :ht' un<.'<'rtain Bolles, Notre Dame :ook quick control. Bumbacco dd'l<,et<'d Williams' slot pass over Bolles' shoulder just a minute after :h<' change. 
Ba~· DeLorenzi, via passes from I';1: Conrov and Bill Green, snuck behind th~ Wolverine defense to llick home a hard 25-foot wrist shot at 14:~9. Sixty-seven seconds later. Bumbacco fed Regan out of :h<' corner. and the senior center stuffed it in to make it 6-3. 
l\1 ichiga n wasn't dead, though. l\1 ichel Jarry. top UM point produeer last season, switched to d<'f<'nse Saturday and blasted :hr<'<' goals past Chris Cathcart, with the last two cutting the margin to (i-5, but then the Irish got on track again. 
lh'gan flipped in a Bumbacco rebound at 14:08 to finish his hat :rick, and the Sault Ste. Marie junior added his third goal at 17:49, stealing an errant Wolverine pass to b<'at Bolles on a breakaway while the Irish were shorthanded. The score was Bumbacco's third of the year in a man down situation. 
Friday's duel saw Notre Dame 
almost totallv dominate play, but 
again slip into lapses that kept 
Mi<:higan close. Kardos and 
Hand\-Trudeau snuck away for a 
2-on-i break, with the former 
flipping a close one over Mark 
Kronholm 's right shoulder at 3:19. 
Williams then began his hat 
:rick, with the Irish seoring during 
a Connelly slashing penalty. Steve 
Curry poked the puck loose at 
center ice and slipped it to 
Williams. who led a 3-on-2 ad­
,·antage. The junior right wing 
then fired a hard riser past Moore 
to tie the score. 
William~ hit twice again t'arly in the second period. Regan and 
,. 
Bumbacco ~et him up for-a close shot ovt'r the prone Moore just 37 ~<'conds into the stanza, then lkgan one£' more centered right onto the Toronto native's stick, and Williams tipped it over Moore's right shoulder. 
A had dearing pass enabled the Wolv£'s to cut it to 3-2less than two minutes later. Jarry came up with th£' steal, and shoved the puck to Sarazin in front of the goal. as the Michigan freshman flipped a backhander behind Kronholm. 
N.D. bounced out to ice it in the final session, with Bumbacco ll('tting both goals.-Bill Nyrop fed th€' left wing at center, and Bumbacco mo~d past UM captain 

Hick  Mallett~  to  fire  a  25-foot  
boom<'r that Moor e  never  had  a  
chance on.  i  

I 
Williams then set up the final 

'Irish tally. Moving past two Michigan defenders, he burst out of the corner and centered to Rumbacco alone in the slot, and the latter again went over Moore's shoulder at 4:37. 

THINK AH 
And we a II know what's ahead••.a Michiana winter is ahead; and those of you who have been through at least one know that warm clothing is in order ( iackets; outercoats, suburban coats, gloves, scarfs, etc.). We have in stock all the warm weather apparel you're going to need at prices you'll appreciate. Come See. 
No Service Charge 
No service charge Pay next year and pay no service or carrying charge on this exclusive Campus Shop Way TO Buy. 
ON THE CAMPUS . . . NOTRE DAME 
CLASSIFIED ADS  I I  
Lost: A pair· of glasses in theWANTED vicinity of Nicki's. If found call Need Ride to c leve!dnd on 7930. Novetnl)er 22. Cafl 4679 -­NOTICES N!'ed ride for one to MILWALKEE I can leave in the Any typinq done Call 232-0136 clfternoon' Mon. 20 Nov. Call PclUI 8276 Futurc CPA'S Learn how to pr0pare for the CPA exam. TypinCJ All Types Call Carol 259­Fkcker CPA review course. Call 2555 . ollect Indianapolis 317 547 ·9971 NPed Turkey ride to or near HELP the helpless unborn, with Otttaha, Ncb. Can leave night time. r11oney, or both. Right to November 20. Will help pay ex-l de, rnc. 233 4295 penses. CCIII Chuck 1782 Attention ND Students! Need Ride needed to Syracuse­11 oney for Thanksgiving Binqhamton. -Scranton area for vilcation? Borrow from Morrissey Thanksgiving. Call Dan 3702 loan Fund 11:15 12:15 Monday Friaay. Basement of LaFortune. TYPISTS needed to volunteer their help during the Red Cross Typinq: Essay Tern Paper-Blood Drive Nov. 30 and Dec. 1. Tlteses Desertation Technical or Please call Pete, 3412 Rcsearch Report We do them professionally, efficiently, and Need 6 tickets for Miami game. l"l.'elSonably. Expert Secretarial Need not be together Call John Sr•rvicc. 233 9466 or 233 3257 1605 Cleveland Club Thanksgiving Need .$Ten. Ad tix to Miami call Russes Leave Tues. Night and 6701 WPd. afternoon. CCIII Gary 1774 .1 Miami G.A. Tix: Ride home to Tickets for SCIIe: Brownsville Cleveland: John 8786 Station Rasp berries concert, November 22, Cheech & Chong Ride needed to Kansas city at (()ncert, November 30 Morris Than ksq iv ing George 7861 Crvir Auditorium. Call 8253 ---­Need rides at t1anksgiving to D.C. RUMOR Well known F.Z. and area for 3 qirls. Will share ex-M.D. will play at CJF in April penses. Marianne 4197 Europe Christmas Break, Dec. 27 Jclll. 14.Need riders to Minneapolis on NY Luxernbourq NY Mon. Nov. 20th call 3377 Ot·ty $165 for info call 1879 or 1049 Girl desires ride to Peoria, Illinois FOR SALE Sunday Nov. 19 Call 6865 -­Nikon tense for sale: 28MM F 35 Desperately need ride West for cl utont,1tic. Mint condition. S115. T!1anksgiv ing. (to N M.) Can ?72 1428 leelve 17th share expenses George 7965 At!ipeq B 25 AMP 215 in speakers ?50 watts $300 Ricl1 3504 Nl'ed T11anksgiving ride to Buf-ICliO. will share expenses and · 69 vw. semi automatic. AM FM driving, Call Mark 1782 rndio. excellent condition. S1450. Call Steve after 5:00, 234 3389 Desperately need $5.50 tickets for Yes. Will pay top dollar. Call 62 Ford very qood condition Best Jolm at 6891 offer 23-t 9765 After 5 p •. Wanted Ride: to Boston or A• oustic 270 amp. 271 272 anywhere in Vrrmont on either 'abinets. $1400 Best offer. 8029 Friday or Saturday Nov. 17 or 18. Will help share expenses. Call Super 8111111 movie camera many 234 4547 after 7:30 P.M. (•xtras. $85 Drake 8427 -­N('l'd 4 G.A. Tix tor Miami. Call· PERSONAL 1992 Dl·ar Steve from Cleveland Need Thanksgiving ride to N.J. Pll'aSI' stCiy at ND Leave Nov. 19 Drake 8427 Love. Anne, Bonnie, Judy & Kate --­N0ed ride East. Destination W.1itinq M.T. , Call Mark at 272­Roston leave Nov. 17. 8906 8189 or Gary at 8243 --­Need 4 Miami general admission HclPPY 21st tickets. Call Jim. 233-3629 R,111' ie Pa111 i e . ..Love You .. Always Need ride to Princeton, New Boop Jl'rsey for Thanksgiving. Phily or Vicinity Will pay Call Tom 7852 Alice. Andy, Barb, Betsy, Blake, f~ob. D!'nny, Floyd, George, Greg,Nl'C'd ride to'-O'Hare Friday Nov. J.1ck. Jay, Joe. John, Kay, Mari,17 C.1fl Joe at 7471 or 2325633 Mock, Mike, Pat. Peter. PlliI. PiloC'be. Puth, Steve, et al: Defeat LOST AND FOUND 'an r1ever kill t11e dream. I love --­you. AI Lost: Wo11.an's ring in Gym 1 of ---Cnnvo Thursday night. Sen· Whcrc's Dave's Little brother? .ti11wntal value Call 1067 -lOST ,,;.,;:k 1.0. Holden valuable ' all .1284  

l 
l 
1 ~ 
• 
• 




• 
r-~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
8 the observer Monday November 13, 1972 
Irish see red in win over FaIcons 
\ 
by .Jim Donaldson upfield, but the officials apologized :~oo. Led by Eric Penick's 82 yards Sports Editor to the Irish--and then called the in 12 carries, the Irish gained 294 play back. yards rushing. With Clements
Th(' Air Force Academy Falcons connecting on seven of 13 attempts,;md the six-man officiating crew But neither the officials nor the they added 9? more through the:ri('d to flag down Notre Dame's Falcon defense could stop Notre air. 
\ lootball team Saturday afternoon Dame often enough to prevent the The Irish had been concerned111 Colorado Springs but found out Irish from racking up their seventh about the Falcons' dangerous!hat waving red in front of the win in eight games. Air Force, an passing game that had accountedFighting Irish only makes them ('arlier loser to both Army and for over 1400 yards prior to. mgry. Navy, dropped to 6-3. 
Saturday's contest but the Falcons Despit<' an assessment of 82 "I've never been involved in a had no success through the air­'arcts in penalties, which cost game where the officials 
ways against Notre Dame.
1\otre Dame at least another 75 dominated it so completely," Irish Switching from their usual 4-4-3 , ants in nullified gains, the Irish coach Ara Parseghian said. "I'll defensive alignment into a 4-3-4,handPd thP stubborn Falcons a 21-7 r<'s('rve judgement on some of the Irish limited the Falcons to a ·<'thack. :hose calls until after I've seen the nwre 99 yards passing as Air Forcefilms. but I think the officials
Tlw officials weren't hesistant quarterback Rich Haynie com­
outgained both teams."

"bout dropping their flags--the pleted just eight of 25 attempts and· F;lleons wer(' penalized 95 yards-­had four intercepted. Mike
''That was one of the most 
or blowing their whistles. Notre unusual games I've ever been Townsend, who has been 1),mw had a :~5 yard pass from involved in." Parseghian con­tremendous lately in the Irish Tnm Clemmts to Willie Townsend tinued. "Some of the penalties secondarv, was Haynie's chief \\ tped out in the first quarter nemesis, ·pulling down ·three passes 
called were totally unexplainable. 
because of a "quick" whistle. :o boost his interception total to 
It was very disturbing. I'm not seven on the year and six in the lastTlw plav began with a fake intimating any dishonesty on the 
three games.

handoff to· halfback Eric Penick part of the officials, but there is A holding penalty, one of several Dame wasn't going anywhere. A 
Offensively, however, the Irish
plunging into the line, and such a thing as incompetency and called against ND players moving running play lost a yard and 
wrren't overpowering and the final 
('}pmmts' sleight of hand was so that's what took place on the do·.vnfield for blocking another holding p£'naly nullified a 
outcome wasn't decided until Huff
~nod that referee Harvey Murdock field." with their hands away from their long gain by Penick. Then 
hulled into the end zone from 13
\ ruh'd the play dead when Eric was Although Notre Dame ran only body. slowed the Irish momen­Diminick made things come alive tackkd. The Falcons were fooled, 116 plays to the Falcons' 77, the Irish yards out to put the Falcons two tarily. But Huff caught a pass by ripping off a 23 yard gain and touchdowns behind with just 5:07 
from Clements at the 15 and then Penick quickly added 13 more. 

remaining. The numerous 
ran for eight yards to give Notre A face mask penalty against the penalties impeded Notre Dame's Dame a first down at the seven. Falcons on Penick's run pushed progress with the football and the Gary Diminick darted across the the ball to the Air Force 23 andIrish twice fumbled away scoring goal line through a gaping hole in after Huff dropped a ball in the opportunities in the second half, thr left side just seconds later. Bob flat, Clements flipped a screenraising their 1972 fumble total to Thomas added the extra point, his pass to Creaney, who carried to the 28. 17 of which have been lost. 

:mh in succession, with 6:33left in 13.

Air Force, in fact, controlled the the half. Clements and Parseghianrarly action. The Falcons moved Notre Dame tallied its second conferred on the sidelines during a to the Irish 28 on their first touchdown late in the quarter, timeout and, when play resumed,possession before stalling. Dave covering 78 yards in only six plays the soph quarterback rolled to his Lawson was sent in to try a 52-yard after Townsend's first interception right and fired a strike to Town­field goal but his attempt fell short. 
gave the Irish possession with 1:32 srnd in a corner of the end zone. 

The Falcons weren't out of to go. Thomas kicked the PAT with only striking distance long, though. 



They drove inside Notre Dame's 20 
as the first quarter ended and 
reached the 13 before Tim Rudnick 
intercepted a Haynie pass at the 
goal line on the third play of the 
second quarter and returned it 14 
~·ards to end the threat. 

The Irish finally started moving after a short punt by the Falcons' Jerry Colin, who averaged only 
25.2 yards on six kicks, gave them field. position at the ND 40. 
('}ements and Townsend com­bined on a 23-yard passing play that the officials could follow to open the drive and Townsend carried for 13 yards on a flanker reverse on the next play. 

ND jayvees beaten at Tennessee 
by Gr.-g Corgan 
The Vols weren't done yet, hand it over to a team that manyhowever, and with 1: 15 left in the times in four-down territory andWhile the Notre Dame varsity half scored on a 15-yard pass from win the game."
has suffered numerous turnovers quarterback Jeff Wallace to split
this season, the Irish JV's have Murphy cited the exceptional­
end Tom Servers to go ahead 21-14.
played relatively error free performances of quarterback
Tennessee opened the scoring in
football--that is until last Saturday Slager, who was 16 .for 30 for 187
the second half with Witherington
in Knoxville. Plagued by seven yards and two touchdowns, and
plunging over from the one and,
fumbles and one interception, the split end Kevin Donerty, who
after the extra point, Notre Dame
junior Irish absorbed a 49-34 defeat caught eight passes for 112 yards
trailed, 28-14. The tide seemed to
at the hands of Tennessee's baby and one touchdown. 
turn, though, as Nick FederenkoVolunt('ers. 
recovered a fumble that led to a 40 "Rich Slager played a goodCoach D('nny Murphy summed yard march in four plays with game." Murphy said, "besides his up his team's performance in a 
Tony Brantley's 27-yard reception passing he rushed for 53 yards.
<.'Oupl(' of sentences. "There's not Kevin Doherty played a fine game
from Slager good for the TD. 
:oo much I can say. We played and has done a good job this
With the score 28-21, Jim Zloch
w<'ll enough to win if you disregard season. He'll play a lot of ball
picked off a Wallace aerial at the
thP turnovers. We had a definite here."
Tennessee 20 two plays later and<'cige in the statistics but, as I've Paul Linehan slashed over from Saturday's game was the seasonsaid before, statistics are for :he two for the score seconds later. finale for the junior Irish andlosers." 
I' Stephans' boot was good and, going dropped their record to 2-3. The Fighting Irish were forced to into the final quarter, the game 
STATISTICS I
play catch-up most of the af­was tied at 28. 
Notre Dame Tennessee
l(•rnoon as Tennessee got on the 
First downs 23 20
But soon after, following 
Rushing yardage . . . . 193 187
scoreboard first as the result of a 
Passing yardage . . . . 1'87 li2
Slager's only interception of the-tO-vard scoring toss. But Notre 
Passes ............. 16-3~1 ~14-1
afternoon. Witherington bolted 14I>a.mt' came back to tie the game 7­
Return yardage . . . . . 135 1:?9yards for another score to put the Punts. ... . . . .. .. . .. 3·37 4-33
7 on a 45-yard pass from quar­
Irish behind again 35-28. Notre Fumbles lost . .. . . . . 5 3
: erback Rick Slager to split end • Yards penalized.. i2 79
Dame tried to play catch-up again Kt·\·in Doherty and Jack Stephan's 
Noti'P Dame ........... 7 7 14 B-34
but two costly fumbles enabled the
('Xtra point conversion. Since Tennessee .............. 14 7 7 ~1-49
Vols to put 14 more points on thebecoming the regular JV kicker board. Witherington scored his T-Seivrrs 40 pass from Wallace
Stephan. a sophomore walk-Qn, (Sherman kick) 
fourth touchdown on a six-yard run
has scored 12 points and has yet to NO-Doherty 45 pass from Slager
and Sam Goode added six more (Stepan kick) miss a field goal or extra point 
points on a two-yard plunge, T-Witherington 11 run (Sherman a~tempt. kick)
putting the game out of reach of 
SO-Payne 3 run (Stepan kick) 
Late in the first period, after an the Irish. T-Servers 15 pass from Wallce Irish fumble, Tennessee's Sid The junior Irish put together a (Sherman kick) 
!-Witherington I run (Sherman
Witherington scampered 11 yards 76-yard 13 play drive with Linehan kick) 
•for a touchdown to put the Vols barreling over from the two, but it ND-Brantley 27 pass from Slager 
(Stepan kick) 

ahead 14-7. But the junior Irish was too little too late. 
ND-Linhan 2 run (Stepan kick) 
again knotted the score late in the Coach Murphy noted that T-W1thrnngton 14 run (Shermanfirst half with Randy Payne going Tennessee managed to score 28 k1ck) 
T -WIIhenngton 6 run (Aaron kick) 
in from the two capping a 73-yard points on only 95 yards of total 
T -Good!' 2 run (Aaron kick) 18 play drive. offense and added, "you just can't ND-Lmhan 2 run (pass failed) 
At first, it looked as if Notre six seconds remaining before halftime. Team Statistics The Irish were moving the ball well at the outset of the second half 
Notre Dame Air Force First downs ntshing . 13 II but Penick cost them one scoring First downs passing . 4 5 
chance by losing a fumble at the 
Ftrst downs 
Air Force 10 artd the Irish saw
penalties ..... . 2 0 Total first downs . 19 IS another opportunity slip past when Rushing attempts .. 52 52 
Thomas missed a 32-yard field goal 
Yds. gaint'd rushing 309 232 Yds. lost rushing . 15 31 a little later. Net yds. gained Those missing points looked. 
rushing .......... . 294 201 
important when the Falcons,
Passes attempted . 14 25 Passes completed 7 8 thanks largely to a 51-yard run by Passes had 
Haynie, registered their only
intercepted ....... . I 4 
Yds. gained passing. 92 99 touchdown later in the quarter. Number of plays ... 66 n Haynie's long gainer put the ball 
Total offense . . . . . 386 300 
on the five and an ND penalty
Punts .......... .. 7 7 Punlir.g average . 42.1 27.7 moved it half the distance to the 
Punts returned ... I 6 goal. Joel Carlson took it the rest 
Yds. punts returned 3 37 
of the way and Lawson kicked the
Kickoffs returned 1 2 Yds. kickoffs extra point with 1:45 to go in the returned .. 20 5.1 
quarter.
Penalties ... 8 10 
Yds. pt>nalized 82 95 Staying largely on the ground, Fumbles lost .2 I the Irish controlled the ball thereafter but didn't clinch their Individual win until Huff's late score. Air f<'orce set up the insurance touch­Statistics down by fumbling the ball away at NOTRE DAME their own 28. The miscue came 
Rushtng-Huff 14-76. Diminick 14-72. just a few plays after DarryllClements IH2. Penick 12·82. W. Town­
Ikwan had coughed up the ball at
send 1·13. Dewan 2·8. Bullock I·I. Passme-Clements. 7·13·0. 92 yards; :he Falcon 23 to end another Irish Samuel I·G-1. 
threat. 
Recf'iving-W. To\1-nsend 3-58. Huff 
F'reshman Jim Stock recovered
2·23. Creaney 2-IL Punting -Doherty. 7-295 for 42 I. :he Falcons' bobble and Notre Punt rrtums-M. ToY.'TISl'nd 1-3. 
Dame powered into the end zone in
Kickoff returns -Huff 1·20. lntl'rception returns-Rudnick. 1·14. five plays. Penick, Df>wan and M. Townsend 3·0. 
lluff carried for a first down at the AIR FORCE 17. Clements added four yards and 
Rushing -~ark IH4. Berry 10-30. 
then Huff covered the remaining
Hayme 12·95. Carlson 15·29. Gessert 1·3. Passmg -Haynie 8-2H. 99 yards. distance. bouncing off a couple of Receiving -Berry 1·4 Smith 2·31. 
tacklers enroute to his ninth
Murray 2·29. Murphy 1-22. ~lark 1·4. 
Carlson 1·9. touchdown of the year. Thomas Punttng-Olin 6-151 for 25.2; Brown again conve~ted. 1-43. 
The Irish will wind up their home 
Punt returns-Ohn .f-?.8. !\lark 2-9. Kickoff retul115 -~lark 1·20. Carlson schedule next Saturday, hosting 1·35 the Miami (Fla;) Hurricanes. 
Happiness is a cold draft for 15 cents Nov. 14 8·10 pm 
SIMERI'S 
410 N Hill Street 
Free Snacks and Drinking Awards 






