
late 
City Edition 

notre dame -st. mary's
Vol. VI, No. 74 Wednesday, February 9, 1972 



It's Badin and Walsh! 
by Maria Gallagher 
Badin and Walsh halls have been officially designated as residences for female un­dergraduates enrolled at Notre Dame for the 1972­1973 academic year. 
A three-page release issued yesterday afternoon from the office of the vice president of student af­fnirs confirmed rumors and speculation that had been rampant since various halls first came under consideration, and provoked a storm of protest, 
The reasons for the selection of Badin and Walsh given in the announcement were because "both allow for appropriate security for young women, both have adequate physical facilities and both have room available for social and r~reational purposes. Necessary renovations in each hall could be accomplished at a reasonable cost." The statement also includes size of the halls and their central location as advantages. 
Rev. Thomas Blantz, who issued the an­nouncement, said yesterday that still another factor in the choice was the wide variety of rooms offered by both halls--th_e possibility of singles, doubles, and quads. Blantz ctted this as the reason for choosing two smaller halls rather than one large one. 
Emotions ran high at meetings in both halls as did confusion. Of primary concern were the relocation provisions for "evicted" students. The major protest centered around the breaking up of an established community, and each hall argued that its spirit was "unique." "Why our hall?" students pleaded at both sessions. 
Rev. Daniel O'Neill, Walsh hall rector for 10 ' years, called upon men in Walsh at the meeting there "to accept the decision graciously ... what do you say at a time like this?" He added to the restless 

So what about the guys 
students crowded into the basement, "No one feels 
worse than I do." Fr. O'Neill stated after the meeting that "if Walsh 
is as great a hall as it is supposed to be, they will

whore living there now? 
accept this as men ... the girls must be placed in the best possible spot.. .I only hope that we can live the 

by Joseph Abell Joe Marcosek, Farley Hall President and member semester out with the same spirit we shared and of the committee. Badin and Walsh Hall govern­then turn the hall over with graciousness." ments will soon ask their residents how many wish Walsh hall president Dave Fromm said he was
The announcement that Badin and Walsh Halls to remain on campus and where they want to go. "very disappointed" that Walsh had been selected will be transformed into female dorms for the 1972­The committee will then meet to discuss the most but noted that "somebody has to make the sacrific~73 school year brings to the forefront the fate of the advantagous method of distributing the displaced for co-education which will contribute to the overall present residents. 
st~dents. Uti~izing the Badin and Walsh lists, along betterment of Notre Dame." He stressed the needAccording to Fr. Thomas Blantz, Vice President w1th other hsts of incoming freshmen, returing for sacrifice on all counts, as Father O'Neill hadin charge of Student Affairs, approximately 330 students from Europe, transfer students and inter­also emphasized in his remarks, but said he per­students now living in Badin and Walsh Halls will hall transfers, the committee will then outline a sonally felt badly that "the common spirit we'vehave to be distributed among the remaining 
plan of placement for the Badin and Walsh developed has to be destroyed."
eighteen halls on campus. These students will be 
residents. The committee will also discuss the
proportioned to the various halls according to the Badin residents were equally vocal about the size of the hall, and its ability to absorb upperclass feasibility of such propositions as moving entire decision. Badin hall president Buz Imhoff calls the 
sections of Badin and Walsh to other halls. Father
transfers, said Fr. Blantz. The procedure for this hall "a most illogical choice." He noted that he 
distribution was outlined in his letter of an­Chambers will then notify the various hall govern­couldn't understand how Badin fulfilled some of the 
nouncement and consists of four steps: ments of the committee's findings and his own crite~i_a considered basic for a female dorm.
decision.
-The Dean of Students has already issued a Specifically Imhoff cited the lack of adequate request to all students who wish to move off-campus Pr~edures concerning room picks for the in­lounge space and overall 'dismal' conditions. He 
commg women students have not been finalized
to file their notifications with their rectors before also commented that he couldn't see the sense of 
said Fr. Blantz, as other details such as security
March 8. This would especially apply to residents of choosing two adjacent halls on the south quad when 
and staff, have not been decided.
Badin and Walsh who do not wish to move to another arr~ng~ments _w_ere being made to enable girls to 
hall. "All these things will take a bit of time and I felt eat m either dmmg hall, as their proximity to the that it was important to announce the decision of
-Before March 15, the Director of Student 
(continued on page 2)

selection of halls as soon as possible," he said. 
Hesidence will notify the governments of the remaining eighteen halls as to the number of spaces to leave available for incoming freshmen and the number of spaces for the displaced residents of 
We, the residents of Badin Hall, regret the decision to convert Badin
Badin and Walsh. 
to a female dorm. We regret it because it destroys the community that
--During the week of March 15-21, the hall 
we have striven to build in this hall and because it prevents the 
governments of Badin and Walsh Halls will select, Badin 
University from creating a genuine co-ed dorm. But we realize that
by means suitable to the hall residents (i.e. lottery, 
some hall must be chosen for the purpose of female housing. We ask
grade point average, etc.), which students will be 
that the University justify its decision to pick Badin and if this decision 
allowed to go to each hall, according to the number 
must stand, we also ask that other members of the Notre Dame
Hall
of spaces designated by the Director of Student 
community also make sacrifices for co-education. We further ask that
Hesidence. 
some elements of community be preserved by allowing
--Each of the eighteen halls will then hold room our us to 
picks during the week of April 1o-15, according to move, in sections, to other halls and by guaranteeing that sections In 
the usual custom of the hall. Hopefully, each of the reacts other halls would be available for this purpose. We also ask that we 
halls will permit the displaced students to select never be displaced again, in the spirit of fairness to those of us who 
their rooms on an equal basis with their own have already made this sacrifice. 
residents; but the halls will be free to determine 
their own policy. 
Director of Student Residence, Fr. Thomas The Badin Hall Council 
Chambers, has set up a committee composed of five (The Badin Hall Council is composed of all the residents of Badin not 
hall presidents to advise him concerning the just the section leaders.)
proportioning of displaced students. According to 
, 


Page 2 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, February 9, 1972 

Residents are shocked, curious and resigned 

Students from Badin and Walsh Halls exhibited shock, despair curiosity, and resentment as they reacted to last night's an­nouncment that their halls would become residences for women next year. 
Greg O'Toole, a sophmore at Walsh, said, "It's generally felt by everybody that it's a rotten deal. When they had the vote for co-education, they didn't say they were going to take our halls away." 
A few of the residents of Badin thought it surprising that their 
Girls for Badin and Walsh Halls 
(continued from page 1) south would cause them to be concentrated there. Imhoff said he has confidence that the HPC will handle student displacement better than in the case of Carroll hall. 
Hall Life Commissioner Bob Higgins pointed out that Badin is the third oldest hall on campus, and that its physical plan is "awkward, to say the least." Himself a Badin resident, Higgins described the living conditions there as "bad, but the spirit is excellent. It's the only thing that keeps guys want­ing to live there. The forced dissolution of this unique spirit is the main objection in the minds of Badin residents." Higgins commented he couldn't 
understand why students affected were not con­
sulted in the decision, or why recommendations of ----------"'1""""-------­
the co-education committee <headed by Jerry Buschelman of Walsh) were completely thrown out. "Walsh and Badin were at the bottom of the list," Higgins said. 
"Girls should be offered at least livable con­
ditions. The university is not putting its best foot forward," Higgins concluded. "The whole thing is just another example of typical University disregard for the opinions of students in matters that concern them." 
Rev. Leonard Biallis, rector of Badin, said that his first concern was for his students, "especially the ones who have been living in Badin for a couple of years·. Since the decision is irrevocable, it is my hope that they can move in fairly goodsized block to other halls and thus preserve that unique spirit that Hall. The talk is open to the public without charge. 
co-ex tix 
hall was chosen. Ed Ellis, a 
junior, said that he couldn't "see 
girls living in this hall." 
Similarly, Jerry Lutkus also a 
junior, remarked that he 
"couldn't figure out what girl 
would really want to live in 
Badin. It's kind of a dungeon." 
Lutkus echoed other sen­timents as he completed his comment. "But everyone who lives there loves it. To overuse the term, I guess we were developing a real community." The hall spirit was another matter for concern. Ellis said, "We have a terrific spirit here. 
characterized Badin." 
"My second concern," Biallis continued, "is for the girls who will be living in the new female dorms. I would hope that Fr. Blantz's notes are merely suggestive, because I feel that further and more thorough renovations than those specified are required." 
Biallis believes that the girls will be accepted as Notre Dame students without discrimination or bitterness. He views the change as part of "cutting the umbilical cord of the past to move on to more mature relationships." This, he feels, is a "necessary process;" only the first step in a series which will hopefully culminate in a resurrection to a truly adult, Christian university." 
There will be a meeting of the Notre Dame 
Student Senate Thursday evening, 7:00, in the 
La Fortune Student Center Auditorium. 
------------------­
Odell Newburn, South Bend c~ty councilman at-large, will g1ve the second lecture in Indiana University at South Bend's Language and Science Lecture Series. 
Newburn will discuss "The Language of Politics," at 7: 15 
p.m. Wednesday (February 9) in the faculty lounge of Northside It's a damn shame to break it up." This matter of breaking up was mentioned by nearly all of those who were questioned. 
· Jeff Warnimont, Paul Aspan, and Mike Desposito, sophmores who share a suite in Badin, were concerned as to whether or not they· would even wind up "in the same .hall" next year. 
Aspan said that he hoped "the University will utilize more common sense in re-locating us than they've shown in the past." 
The freshmen feelings in both halls were summarized by Ken Lee from Walsh who said that 
I 
"Next year we're going to have to 
start all over again just after 
we've gotten ourselves settled on 
this hall." 
Neil Loughery, another fresh­man, said, "We had a pretty good idea it was going to be us. Nobody wants to leave; however, we just have to accept things as they are. We're going to try to get into the hall we want to. If we can't, we're going off-campus." 
This idea of moving off-campus as an alternative to another hall was by far the most popular solution to the problem. 
It appears that to the people of Walsh and Badin, the situation is closed. A number of the residents merely said that there is nothing they can do but accept another hall or live off-campus. "The 
*ifyou have alteady
t~penfe4 pJeale 
decision has been made, and what else can we do?" was a familiar response. "I guess we had to make the supreme sacrifice for co-education," said Lutkus. 
Dave "Bullet" Barry, a resident of Badin's fourth floor and a candidate for Vice Presient in the upcoming electionstated "If I win, I'll rule in exile." ' 
Continuing, Barry said "At first I was a little upset 'but I realized that somebody had to get hurt. I'll just miss my pillow." 
John Gerspach, a freshman from Badin, was the last to be interviewed. He said, "I guess Badin won't die. I don't see much future for hockey in the corridors, anyway." 
ditteRatd thi1 notice, but come in 
and Vllif out H_EWtfote.1 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME CAMPUS OFF JUNIPER ROAD. GIFTS • BOOKS • POSTERS • GREETING CARDS OPEN MONDAY & THURSDAY TILL 7:00 PM. BROWSERS WELCOME. FREE PARKING. 



rr:D?~ !7'~~~~'!~~~~ 
~~ TELEPHOI\E 219/272-1704 

The following is a list of halls receiving co-ex dinner tickets for the next week. Out of hall residents wanting tickets for a special occasion should contact the hall president whose hall has the tickets for the night in question. 
Feb. 9 (today) Pangborn, Farley Feb. 10 (Thurs.) Fisher, Morrissey Feb. 11 (Fri.) Flanner, Dillon Feb. 13 (Sun.) Holy Cross, Lyons Feb. 14 (Mon.) Howard, Keenan 
In the neart 
of Downtown (ANf~N(1( 
South tsend 
6~ . 
GOOD FUOD AT-MODEST PRICES ·Steaks ·Chops ·Chicken ·Sea Food Quiet atmosphere -Pleasant Surroundings 
CLOSED MONDAYS 
Daily & Sunday 
11 am till 9 pm 
Saturday 
11 am till 10 pm 

The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
Cultural Arts Commission's Cinema '72 
MONDAY, FEB. 
Shorts: 
CAMPUS CHRISTIE, CRASY 
RAY, ENTR'ACTE, BEGONE 
CARE, FALL OF THE HOUSE OF USHER, TRIPTOTHEMOON 
(MELI ES), ADVENTURES-OF AN 
ANEMIC CINEMA, LABYRINTH 
TUESDAY, FEB. 8, AT 7 AND 9 
TRANS EUROP EXPRESS 
ily Alain Robbe Grille\ 
plus the short CAMPUS CHRISTIE 
Engineering Auditorium $1 .00 patrons free Patron Cards Available -$5.00 
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 9AT 7 AND9AND 11 TRASH by Paul Morrissey Andy Warhol 
THURSDAY, FEB. 10, AT 7 AND 9 
GREETINGS by Brian De Palma 
I RIDAY, FEB. 11 AT 7 AND 9 riverrun by John Korty 






Vol. VI, No. 74 
Wednesday, February 9, 1972 



mardi gras 

A sulphur oxide tax 
by E. W. Kenworthy 
(c) 1!172 New York Times 
Washington, Feb. 8 -In his third annual en­vironmental message to Congress, President Nixon said today that he would soon propose a tax on sulphur oxides emitted by the electric power, smelting, refining and other industries. 
A year ago Nixon announced in his environmental message that he would ask Congress to impose such a charge. There were immediate protests from industries emitting sulphur oxides into the at­mosphere that the technology for controlling such emissions was either not yet available or that, if available, was prohibitively expensive. The President's proposal was never sent to Congress. 
Today Nixon said that in the interim the White !louse Council on Environmental Quality, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Treasury De$partment had completed studies and agreed on the details of such an emission charge. 
Nevertheless, the proposed tax is likely to prove the most controversial item in the program outlined in today's message--a program containing seven proposals for new legislation and several executive actions but, over-all, a program far less extensive or costly than that contained in last year's message. 
By way of explaining this, the President said that Congress had failed to act on almost all the legislation he proposed last year, although com­mittee hearings had "attracted heartening interest and support." He then added: 
"Last year was, quite properly, a year of con­sideration of these measures by the congress. I urge, however, that this be a year of action on all of them. so that we can move on from intention to accomplishment in the important needs they ad­dress." 
Aside from the sulphur oxides tax, the following were the principal new initiatives, either by law or executive order, announced by the President today: 
--an amendment to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act under which E.P.A. would issue requirements and guidelines for state programs to regulate on-land or underland disposal of toxic wastes posing health hazards, with provisions for federal enforcement if a state did not establish a satisfactory program. 
This amendment would be particularly directed at such practices as the oil industry's pumping back underground the water injected in wells to force oil to the surface, and underground disposal of inud­strial wastes around Houston which have en­dangered water supplies. 
Such a law is certain to provoke opposition fronm the oil industry. 
--a bill requiring the states, through local and regional agencies, to regulate sediment flowing into waterways from building and road construction. Again E.P.A. would provide guidelines, and the federal government would impose a program if a state failed to establish one. Although the bill would 
call for state action, Russell E. Train, Chariman of the Council of Environmental Quality, told repor­ters that the forest service would be required to ('nforce rigid sedimentation controls on logging roads built by timber companies with contracts to cut in national forests. 
--amendments to the administration's bill, in­
troduced last year but still not enacted, to require 
the states to protect lands of "critical en­
vironmental concern." One amendment would 
require states to control the siting of major high­
ways and airports. Failure to do so would subject a 
state to a 7 per cent cut in federal funds it was en­
titled to from highway and airport construction 
(continued on page 5) 
A long struggle to unite Ireland 
by Bernard Weinraub 
(c) 1!172 New York Times 
Bt>lfast, Northern Ireland, Feb. 8 --Prime Minister Brian Faulkner launched a bitter attack today on the Irish government and said that "a long and bloody struggle" would take place if the Roman Catholic minority pressed for a united Ireland. 
Faulknt>r's major speech in the Stormant Parliamt•nt took place amid Protestantfears of new Jlolitical moves by the British government that would break the control of the Unionist Party, which has dominated Northern Ireland for 51 years. Protestant politicians insist that the end of Unionist rule would lead to the unification of Ireland, a move that the majority bitterly rejects. 
"Our history, our tradition, our economic in­terests link us firmly with Great Britain," said Faulkner in the half-empty chamber. "We see it as an absurdity in the modern world to cast off from a powerful and outward-looking community to join our destinies with a wak and inward-looking one. 
"What we see of the Irish Republic, we do not like. 
Tlw whole ('thos of the Republican State --the strul'ture of its constitution and of its laws --these things are repugnant to us." 
Most protestant here even moderate, non­tlnionists, reject unity with the Irish Republic because they see themselves as British citizens, not Irishmen, who would turn into a dissident minority in a single Ireland. Protestants view the Irish Hepublic aas a nation dominated by the Catholic Church and express misgivings about the country's laws against contraception and divorce, as well as book and film censorship. 
Within the past six months, the Catholic minority here has wholly rejected the Protestant Unionist government because of its policy of internment without trial the internment move, seekingto crush the outlawed Irish Republican army, has sparked the worst violence in Northern Ireland's history and led to a demand among Catholics for an end to the current government and possible unification with the Republic to the south. 
In his speech, Faulkner pointedly attacked Premier John Lynch of Ireland for his offer of money to the minority movement in Northern Ireland seeking to topple the Unionist government. The offer was made after the recent killing of 13 :•~tl1olics during a civil rights march in Lodonderry. 
"We do not admire the petulant and bellicose utterances of its Oreland's) public figures on the world stage," said Faulkner. "We hold in small regard a government which makes available for use against us money for subversion or worse." 
"Above all," he said in a rising voice, "we are contemptuous of that state's behavior toward Northern Ireland. At one moment its leaders ap­pear to accept the principle of consent: at another to be prepared to ride on the back of terrorism." 
Faulkner appealed to Lynch to set aside the issue of a United Ireland "and lend his influence to the cause of a realistic settlement." 
"What is his real interest --Irish unity by any means, or at whatever cost, or peace in !Northern Ireland?" he demanded. 
Faulkner, a 51-year-old Presbyterian business man and former minister of development, added: "All political leaders of our community must decide very soon --for time is not unlimited --whether to dig still deeper trenches for a long and bloody struggle, or whether to show some real courage and generosity. 
"But I warn again: we are not to be coerced, and we will never surrender our destiny into the hands of the gunman or those who seek to profit from his activities." 
In recent months there have been rumors that the 
British government was drawing up plans that 
would seek to calm the alienated catholic minority 
in Northern Ireland internment and the Lon­
donderry killings have only deepened Catholic fury. 

The merger talks re-open today after two months of inactivity. There will be an official news blackout of the discussions. 
Notre Dame participants include Rev. James Burtchaell, University Provost, Rev. Edmund Joyce, Executive Vice-President, and Dr. Thomas Carney, chairman of the Trustee's Student Affairs Committee. 
St. Mary's College will be represented by Sister 
M. Gerald Hartney and P. Jordan Hamel of the Board of Trustees, Sr. Basil Anthony, Vice­President for Financial Affairs, and Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, Vice-President for Student Affairs. Ad­ditional members of the SMC delegation are Sr. Verda Clare Doran, Jason Lindower, director of financial management, and faculty members Sr. Maria C. McDermott and Dr. William Hickey. 
Page 4 
Artificial brain? 
by Sandra Blakeslee 
<C> l!li2 New York Times 
Menlo Park, Calif., Feb. 8 --A team of California researchers has developed an experimental "artificial brain" that has been used to restore a variety of movements in the limbs of partly paralyzed monkeys. If extended to humans, the technique might help stroke victims overcome paralysis. 
A report of the scientists' work appears in the current issue of Stroke Magazine, a bimonthly medical journal published by the American Heart Association. Dr. Lawrence R. Pinneo of the Stanford Research Institutue here Jed the research effort. Coauthors of the report were Drs. Joel N. Kaplan and Edward A. Elpel of the Institute and Drs. Peter C. Reynolds and John H. Glick of Stanford Diversity School of Medicine. 
In an interview at his office on Monday, Pinneo said the "brain prosthesis," --or artificial or auxiliarybrain --serves the same purpose as does an artificial heart, lung or kidney. All are devices and techniques for replacing the functions of those organs lost, as a result of injury or disease. The researchers have not made an artificial "thinking" brain, but rather have learned how to replace a lost function of the brain by altering the function of the brain itself. 
Primates, including man, have a highly developed cortex or outer portion of the brain. Such voluntary motor activities as the ability to move an armor leg are directed from areas within the cortex. 
Efection merger still alive-Barlow 
by Jim McDermott 
Merger of the Notre Dame and St. Mary's student elections is far from dead, according to SMC Student Body President, Kathy Barlow. 
Barlow explained that the Notre Dame election com­mittee's rejection of proposals brought to them from the SMC Student Assembly was not definitely final -since both the Notre Dame and St. Mary's legislative bodies must approve the planned voluntary blocks of candidates. 
Under the block slate system, two sets of candidates would run together, one set to represent SMC, the other ND. According to Barlow, the SMC Assembly mandated their election com­mittee to treat Notre Dame and St. Mary's as one electorate for this year. Students would vote for one block of candidates under the SMC proposal. This would provide separate student body presidents and vice-presidents, but a common cabinet and legislature would be possible. 
Meeting Sunday night, the Notre Dame election committee opted for optional coalitions or blocks. 
Barlow commented that fur­ther co-operation between the student governments is a necessity. "Making the discussion hinge on merger of the institutions is irrelevant," she said. "The student bodies are already close geographically, and in activities. There are common interests in any case." 
She also noted the steps toward unification of governments that have been taken. Notre Dame students now sit on the SMC Sttudnet Assembly and cabinet. Since last spring, the Student Union has served both schools. 
When a stroke or injury occurs within the cortex, certain command areas are often knocked out and paralysis can result. 
What Pinneo wondered was whether there were other parts of the brain that could direct motor activities. That is, could another, deeper part of the brain take over the lost motor function? 
It was found that when sub­cortical structures of monkeys' brains were stimulated with electrodes, skeletal motor ac­tivity could indeed be prompted. Electrodes planted deep within the brain stem area --where commands from the cortex are normally integrated -­evoke movements foreleg, hind quarters muscles of the face. 
THE OBSERVER Wednesday, February 9, 1972 





PLACE YOUR ORDER NOW! 
and well make sure your girl has flowers 
on Valentine's Day. Don't let her be left out! 
the 
"J!j.Yenundle" 
Class of '48 





Save up to $3.00! Major label LP's! Top artists! 
Many, many selections in this special purchase. Classics included! Hundreds of records! Come early for best selection! 
Sale starts today! 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore 
Get your favorites at Big Discounts! 
Wednesday, February 9, 1972 
THE· OBSERVER Pages 
Washington--A State Department spokesman said Tuesday that 

on campus today

reports of a disagreement between the United States and South 
Vietnam's President Nguyen Van Thieu over possible peace terms 
were exaggerated. Thieu had reportedly been upset by remarks made 

'World 
by Secretary of State Rogers indicating that the United States was . 
flexible about when Thieu would resign prior to elections. 
briefs 
Vienna--Karl Schranz, who was disqualified from skiing in the Olympic games because of alleged violations of amateur rules, returned to a hero's welcome in Austria. An estimated 100,000 persons jammed the route from the airport to Vienna, where the ski champion was received by Chancellor Bruno Kreisky. 
Washington--Liberal Senators gave up an effort to break a Southern(c) New York Times 
filibuster against a proposal to give the Equal Employment Op­portunity Commission power to order companies to halt discrimination. The Liberals, instead, offered a compromise bill that would allow the Commission merely to go into Federal Court to prove discrimination. 
Montgomery. Ala.--In what was thought to be the first use of population ratios in a desegregation order for a government service, a federal judge ordered that the all-white Alabama State Police begin an immediate campaign to recruit Negroes and continue it until the force is one-fourth black. 
4:30 p.m. --colloquium --"collapsed nuclei", arnold bodmer, university of illinois. room 118, nieuwland science hall. 
7 & 9 p.m. film --cinema '72 , "Trash" engineering auditorium 
7:30p.m. lecture--american scene: a cultural series, "one man's awakening: from prison to poetry and philosophy," laverne lodbell, carroll hall 
7:30p.m. lecture--"student activities and counciling", robert glennen, grace well 
7:30 p.m. seminary, fr. pat maloney: difference between live and recorded music, st. ed's lounge. 



nd-smc 


Prints," and see two short films, An exhibit of woodcuts by


Environmental message 
"Football as it is played Today," Sidney Chafetz, professor or art and "Satirist in Academe."
at Ohio State University, wil Works by Chafetz are regularlycontinue until February 21 in thea proposal to Congress, also announced today, that

(continued from page 3) 
represented in major exhibitions, Moreay Art Gallery of SaintCongress add 18 new areas totaling 1.3 million acres including the Museum of Modern Mary's College, Notre Dame,funds and the Land and Water Conservation Fund to the wilderness system. 

Ind. Art, the Brooklyn Museum,with additional 7 per cent cuts for each year a state --an executive order, also signed today, providing American Federation of Art, and Chafetz, who has been awarded failed to produce an acceptable land use program. for control of motorcycles, snowmobiles, dune Fulbright and Tiffany the Pennsylvania Academy oJA second amendment would define "wetlands" -buggies and other off-road vehicles on federal Fine Arts. Prizes awarded to him Fellowships, will attend aestuarine areas --as environmentally critical areas lands. 

include L'Ecole Des Beaux Arts,reception in his honor at theto be preserved and would deny tax benefits, such The sulphur tax would be based on the 1970 clean Fontainbleau, Library ofgallery at 2:00 p.m. Sunday,as accelerated depreciation write-offs, to com­Air Act which requires the states to have Programs Congress, and the Gravure SurFebruary 20. The public is in­

panies building on wetlands. in operation by 1975 to achieve federal primary and Bois of Czechoslovakia in 1970.
vited to hear his talk, "Satire in today. forbidding the use of poisons on federal lands to control such predators as coyote.;;, eagles, The primary standard, designed to protect public falcons, and hawks. The Interior Department has health, is .03 <repeat point zero three) parts of already stopped its poisoning program on federal sulphur oxides per million parts of air. The lands, and the executive order would simply give secondary standard, designed to protect soil, water, this presidential sanction. Over the next three , animals, vegetation, materials and personal 
--an executive order, which the President issued secondary air quality standards for sulphur oxides. 
Swi~nlllers : 

years the federal government would shift to the comfort, is .02 <repeat point zero two) parts of states the responsibility for controlling predators, sulphur oxides per million parts of air. without use of poisons, on both federal and state The President's bill will propose that companies 
lands. in regions not meeting primary standards be --a bill that would make the killing of endangered charged 15 cents a pound for sulphur emitted, and 

Beat Bonnies

species a federal offense for the first time. that companies in regions not meeting secondary 
--an announcement today that 20 more parcels of standards be taxed 10 cents a pound. The charges land--in addition to 40 already designated --would would begin in 1976. Companies in regions meeting be made available for parks near urban areas, and both standards would pay no tax. 
THEARMY ROTC TWO-YEAR PROGRAM 
Attention Sophomores, Juniors, Seniors and Graduate Students 
You are eligible to apply for the Army ROTC Two-Year Program if you have at least two years 
of academic work remaining (undergraduate or graduate). The successful applicant will attend a six-week summer camp at Fort Knox, Kentucky and then participate in the Army ROTC Advanced 
Course for two years. You may attend any college or university offering Army ROTC (Exceptions: VMI, VPI, The Citadel and Clemson). Cross-enrollments with institutions offering Army ROTC ore 
also possible. A $100 per month subsistence allowance (tax free) is provided for 10 months of the school year. Two-Year Program participants are now eligible to compete for Two-Year Army ROTC 
Scholarships which pay for tuition, books and academic fees as well as provide the $100 a month subsistence allowance. 
Upon completion of ROTC and attainment of a bachelor's degree you will be commissioned as a second lieutenant in the United States Army Reserve. The newly commissioned officer may attend or complete graduate school prior to reporting for duty. Dependent on the needs of the 
Army he may serve two years active duty and four years in the Reserves, or three to six months ctive duty followed by seven and a half years in the Reserves. A four year active duty commitment is required of scholarship recipients. 
Students enrolled in the Army ROTC Two-Year Program may compete for the following programs: a. Ranger and Airborne School b. Subsidized Medical Schooling with full pay and allowances c. Subsidized Graduate Study d. Regular Army Commission and a career in the Army e. Flight Training To apply, visit Army ROTC in the Military Science 
Building. For informatlon call: Lieutenant Colonel Lai<.e at 283-6264 or 6265. 
---__________________. 
Page 6 THE OBSERVER Wednesday, February 9, 1972 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-Chief, Glen 8; Corso Assistant Editor Assistant Editor 
All successful newspapers are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
ceaselessly querulous and 
bellicose. They never defendBusiness Manager anyone or anything if they can help Advertising Manager Jim· Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle 
they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Tw0 Halls 
What can you say about two South Quad residence halls that have been chosen to house women next year? Nothing much, except to express sympathy to the residents, wish them luck in finding new accomdations and chalk the whole thing off to "progress" at the Dome. 
No matter where the administrative fiat placed the incoming women there was bound to be outraged cries from the residents affected. Hall Life is a special thing at Notre Dame. Most people make their best friends from among the people that live around them. Most people have their best, and worst times with the friends they make in their residence hall. Most people don't like to move once they have established themselves.
·­
The residents of Badin Hall have made the right move. They realize 
that they are being asked to sacrifice something that means very much to them. They also realize that this sacrifice is for the good of the entire school and they are willing to cooperate. 
The unpleasant effects of the forced move could be partially mitigated if the office of Student Housing acts to allow blocs of residence to pick into sections in the various halls. 
Each hall determines it's own methods of room picks, and after setting 
aside a numb~! of r9oms for incoming freshmen, allows its residents to 1select remaining rooms according to a variety of schemes. Now, because 
of the impending eviction of the residents of Walsh and Badin, the rest of 
the halls on campus are going to be given a quota of people from these 
halls they have to admit. 
A good, fair method of effecting this transplant would be for Fr. Chambers, as Director of Student Housing, to have the halls set aside a bloc of rooms for incoming Walsh-Badin residents, if they request it. 
This won't solve all the problems. It won't be the same as allowing the 
students in Walsh and Badin to stay there. But it will help. If a group of 
people enjoy living together, have a good time together and don't want to 
be scattered then they should have the chance to reside in one section. 
The solution is a reasonable one and it could be enacted with minimal pain. The Director of Student Housing should do it and do it now. 

Gaal's bit 
John Gaal wants to do his bit for c~educa tion. He wants to do his bit by serving as St. Mary's Student Body Vice-Presidentfor a month. He wants to do his bit, but the St. Mary's Judicial Board, headed by Sue Welte, doesn't want to let him. 
The reasons they cite for disallowing Gaal's elections are good ones. For starters, Gaal is not a St. Mary's student, and the Governance Manual seems to clearly call for an SMC student to fill the post. That, coupled with the fact that Gaal was elected to his post by the Student Assembly and not the student body doesn't leave much factual support for his case. 
This affair is rather sad. It's sad because the St. Mary's Student Government has once again demonstrated it's willingness to begin a sort of merger with Notre Dame's Student Government, a beginning that ND's election committee rebuffed Sunday night. 
John Gaal should not be the SMC SBVP. St. Mary's and Notre Dame's Student Governments should not remain totally apart through the coming Student Body Elections. The two student legislative bodies--the Assembly and the Senate--can right both wrongs. We strongly suggest that they do so. 
GahlTh A.hmes 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 

Go home Geoffrey 
1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
<The following was sent to the Observer late in November and was mislaid. Recently it came up and since we felt the message the writer was transmitting was pertinent, even at this late date, we decided to reprint it for the edification of our readers -ed.) 
It is truly regrettable to be speaking of cases and not of humans, at a time when the U. N. Declaration of Human Rights continues to be ignored in Pakistan, where human rights are still being violated daily. 
The authorities of the Piikistan Government have discarded all human values and have violated the elementary principle of right and justice through blowing up l)ouses, evictions, pressure and torture. So many pakistanis these days are living miserable lives and Mr. Geoffrey is living a life of luxury in the United States. Let us take a look at what the students of Notre Dame are doing for Pakistanis relief and what Mr. Geoffrey is doing for his own country. 
Before I go further, I want to ask Mr. Geoffrey who is saying that there is a discrimination at Notre Dame which is absolutely false-why he does not look back to his country to find the true discrimination. In fact, some people these days try to get things, but when they can't get them they try to invent excuses which are not true, like discrimination of color, religion and the country, as Mr. Geoffrey is doing now. 
You are saying, Mr. Geoffrey, that there is discrimination in hiring at Notre Dame; but what about the Pakistani Muslim professor in the Physics Department? You listed your qualifications as economist and management consultant; I think it is good for your knowledge to check with the Peace Corps to know how many U.S. citizens are in your country in these fields because you don-t serve your country or you are hoping to be wealthy in the U.S.A.; if your point or your aim in education is to get wealthy, I think your place is not here at Notre Dame, because education is not a business as you think, also as I have seen it here. The professors at Notre Dame are sharing their knowledge with their students and they are more receptive, assimilating and propagatiing the idealism, but you are not that type, therefore your place is not here. 

-..___ You listed your favorite job as dean or assistant dean. In fact, I can­t understand when they tell you there is no opening, why you still come back and say you want to be dean or assistant dean. Do you want them to dismiss somebody without any reason just to put you in his place to make you happy or to get wealthy, or do you want them to open a new department for you? 
Mr. Geoffrey, I want you to face the fact, there is a Muslim University (Al-Azhar University) in Cairo, Egypt for Muslims around the world. If we put a Christian in as the president of that University, what do you imagine will be the reaction of the Students? In the same way, you are seeking the application as the Muslim president of a Catholic College. It is not a question of discrimination, but of logic. I think that you have limited thinking and I am sorry to say that you use it to a selfish purpose, to get wealthy only. 
I want to assure you, Mr. Geoffrey, that there may be some who do smile in your face as you are trying to stand against Notre Dame, not because they love Muslims or foreigners, but becuase they hate Notre Dame and particularly the Catholics. Please be realistic and open your mind to see what you are doing before you fall down and don-t know what you did to yourself. 
Mr. Geoffrey, I think the better way is for you to go back to your country and serve there; and I want to remind you of the statement of 
J.F. Kennedy, ·"Ask not what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country". 
Maybe some of my Muslim friends feel bad to hear me say this, but I want to remind you as a Muslim what our prophet Mohammed said, "If you see something wrong, try to change it by your hand; if you can't, by your tongue (through verbal persuasion) and this is the weakness of faith". What he is doing is the wrong thing, and since I cannot change it, I must at least speak the fact. 


Nite Editor: Jim McDermott Layout: Art Esposito, Joe Abell, Dan Ryan Headlines: 'Don Ruane The gang: John Abowd, Maria Gallagher, Ann McCarry, Kathy Weber, Glen S. Corso Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Sports Nite Editor: Erik Kinkoph Nite Control~r: Helen Smudski 
c smile, and maria's got the card. shalom 
serving everybody except mike murphy 


Wednesday, February 9, 1972 
THE OBSERVER Pa 7 


THIS WAS YOUR LIFE 
ND 1968-69 
For seniors, freshmen year memories you can win the original photo's. (8 x 10 
bring back a lot of things that maybe prints.) weren't quite as great as they seem now. To enter the contest, identify (byBut things were really good (at times), number) each shot as well as you can, and 
and very different from what they are mail your entry to Photography Dept. now. Observer, Box 11, Notre Dame, Ind. or 
This nostalgia page, compliments of bring your entry to the Observer offices, TilE OBSERVER and LARRY SMOOTH third floor La Fortune, any weekday af­PHOTOGRAPHY is the first of a series of ternoon or evening. All entries must be in ND nostalgia. All these photo's are from by Wednesday, Feb. 16. Ties will be broken the 68-69 year. by random selection. Decision of the 
If you recognize, and can identify the judges will be biased but final. Good luck. 
people, things, and places of these shots 


J 
A-who? 
C-what? B-where? 
D-who'! 

E -where & why? G -who, what, when, why, where? 
F -when, where, why? 
Page 8 THE OBSERVER 
Indian troops to leave BanglclCJesh~ 
lc) 1!172 New York Times 
Calcutta, February 8-Prime Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and Sheik Mujibur Rahman of Bangladesh announced today agreement for the withdrawal of Indian troops from the new Bengali State at the end of this month. 
The two leaders, who met here for two days, made this disclosure in a statement signed yesterday and released today. 
The 900-word communique indicated that Sheik Mujib had expressed definite views on all the key subjects he discussed with Mrs. Gandhi in three sessions lasting five hours. In fact, according to official Indian sources, he did most of the talking. 
On the troop withdrawal, the statement said: 
"The Prime Minister of Bangladesh paid warm tribute to the armed forces of India and the part they played in the liberation of Bangladesh. The task having been completed,the two prime ministers felt that these armed forces should be withdrawn. The withdrawal of the Indian armed forces would be completed by March 25, 1972. 
According to Bangladesh sources, the suggestion for the withdrawal and the date set for it came from Sheik Mujib. The date would mark the first anniversary of the start of the Pakistani military repression in East Pakistan. The repression, which lasted nine months and involved the mass killing of Bengali nationalists, was ended when Indian troops marched into Dacca last December. 
Although the insurgent leadership declared Bangladesh independent soon after the surrender of Pakistani troops on 
Indian 

FEBRUARY ·9-15 
y. 

'I-~ ~ 
¥­
remained in the country, largely to maintain law and order and to help in the reconstruction of the shattered communications system. 
The Sheik, who returned to Dacca after his release from detention in West Pakistan less than a month ago, said that at a recent news conference that the Indian army would remain in Bangladesh as long as his country needed it. 
Both India and Bangladesh, embarrassed by Pakistani assertions that Indian troops are in Bangladesh as an occupation force, had agreed that the soldiers should be withdrawn as soon as possible. However, of­ficials in New Delhi had imagined that a total withdrawal would take several months. 
Bangladesh still lacks an effective police forcd and thousands of guerrillas roam the 
country seeking reprisals against former collaborators of the Pakistani army. 
There are about 40,000 Indian 
troops in Bangladesh. Their 
duties include the protection of 
the large communities of Bihari 
Moslems who continue to live in 
terror of reprisals. The Prime 
Minister has said that all of the 
Biharis are safe, but it is ap­
parent that at present their 
safety depends on Indian army 
protection. 
New Delhi had sought a formal 
agreement with Bangladesh that 
would have made the Indian 
military presence legitimate for 
any length of time. 
Cardinal knights Moose 
signed with Moscow last August, guaranteeing mutual support in the event of an external threat. 
Such a treaty was considered during the talks, but Sheik Mujib apparently felt that it would create an impression that Bangladesh was a vassal of In­dia. 


Wednesday, February 9, 1972 


10% OFF 
On any mechanical 
work and winterizing. 
For students and 
University Personnel 

Roseland Gulf 402 U.S. 31 North Across from Burger King 


by Ann McCarry 
Edward Krause, Notre Dame1s 
athletic director, has become one of America's 850 members of the Knights of Malta. Krause was knighted by the order, which was founded in the 11th Century, in . formal ceremonies in New York 
City on January 17. 
·Terence Cardinal Cooke ar­
chbishop of New York, pre~ided 
at the investure in St. Patrick's 
CathedraL Krause and the other 
newly dubbed knights were 
honored at a banquet in the 
Waldorf Astoria Hotel later in the 
evening. 
The Knights of Malta originate 
from a pre-crusade era of European pilgrims, the Hospitalers of St. John of Jerusalem. The order, which boasts 8000 members in­ternationally, still does charitable work for the poor and the sick which was its original purpose. 
Presently making its headquarters in Rome, the Knights of Malta have diplomatic representation at the Holy See. New Knights are chosen by the existing members from prominent Catholic clergymen and laymen in the countries where it maintains chapters. 
Hey! Do You Know That You Don't Have To Be 21 To Play Pool At 



FRANKIE'S? 

Everyday Specials -Ocean Perch $1.25 -10 oz. Rib-Eye Steak -1h Breasted Chicken  $1.5() $1.50  
Includes Tureen Soup, Salad,  

Bread, Butter And Coffee 


Hit tunes, show tunes, new tunes, rock, pop, folk ... even some oldies but goodies!!! 

esday, Feb. 15 8:00pm Free Concert O'Laughlin Aud. 
:· : . 
Wednesday, February 9, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 9' 
Mardf Gras robbed again 


by John Abowd 
For the second year in a row an unidentified number of persons have stolen Mardi Gras carnival money from Stepan Center. The thieves took over $4,000 in bogus five dollar bills from the center on Sunday night, according to festival director Greg Stepic. 
The cash value of the hiested money is $2,000. The theives entered the building by breaking one of the fiberglass panes on the north end. Once inside, they pried an opening in the wire mesh of the coat check room and opened the door from the inside. 
All the bogus bills were stored in the room adjacent to the coat closet. The door between the rooms was unlocked. 
Bills used at the carnival last night and and in the upcoming sessions have been stamped. The bankers and dealers are not accepting any unstamped bills 
unless  the  bearer  has  been  
cleared  by  the  Mardi  Gras  
Committee.  

More on Hughes-Irving Story 
('ontinut>d from yesterday's l'dition. 
<c> 1!172 Nt>w York Times 
In the 1960 presidential cam­paign, Pearson said in his newspaper column that the Hughes Tool Co. had loaned $205,000 to F. Donald Nixon, the brother of Richard Nixon, who was then running for president. 
The "autobiography" 
manuscript is made up of 
questions purportedly posed by 
Irving and answers purportedly 
given by Hughes. 
After Hughes is quoted as 
saying he had allowed Pearson to 
learn of the purported loan, the 
manuscript reads: 
"Irving: How did that 
happen?" 
"Howard: Can't you rut two 
and two together?" 
"Irving: 1 want to hear it in 
your words." 
"Howard: Well, I got someone to whisper it to Mr Pearson's ear, where to look, And Mr. Peason looked and Mr. Pearson finds ­found. The Bible says, "Seek and ye shall find." And then it hit the front pages of all the newspapers in the country. Television people had their say, too. Now whether it actually turned the tide of the election or not, I don't know." 
At another point in that ex­change, Hughes is quoted as saying, "I've never played the role of kingmaker. I never saw myself as the power behind the scenes in Washington, but I did my bit. Every businessman needs frineds in high places." 
Sources who have read it said the manuscript continually returned to discussions of mat­ters that are in bad taste for public discussion, "such as stories of sexual exploits, or that are libelous accounts of events in which Hughes is widely known to have had some role years ago. 
At another point, Irving pur­portedly asked Hughes about the time l''rank Sinatra, the singer, was knocked down by an em­ployee of the Sands Hotel Casino in Las Vegas. That exchange follows: 
"Howard: Well, Carl Cohen did more than I expected of him, he pasted him in the mouth ... that's the last we've heard of him in connection with Hughes Hotels. 
"Irving: But why? Was there any conflict between you and Sinatra?" 
"Howard: No conflict at all, I always felt Sinatra was beneath any particular consideration of mine. What is he after all? He owns nothing to speak of out there. We had no business dealings. He was just taking advantage of my prestige to bolster his waning prestige." 
At another point, the purported dialogue brings in the name of Hobert A. Maheu, who managed Hughes' enterprises in Nevada for four years until he was dismissed in 1970. The excerpt follows: 
"Irving: : 0 .K. Tell me so that we can get it on tape about Maheu. 
"Howard: You want the background on it?" 
"Irving: Yes." 
"Howard: As I said, he was an F.B.I.agent. He had been with 'he F.B.I. untill946 or 7, I think ust after the war. Then he got me of those public relations 'irms in Washington. Well, it was Jublic relations on the surface, 
but what it really was doing was weeding out industrial espionage and ferreting out secrets in Washington and lobbying a bit. Maheu's a snooper. A very competent guy. Hale fellow well met on the surface. Underneath a very icy, calculating man <Here followed a series of uncomplimentary remarks) 
"Irving: He's not a mormon?" 
"Howard: No, for awhile I thought I might have made a mistake there in not hiring a mormon for this job. Dull as they are. Later on I find out that they're not just dull, they're as tricky as anybody else. And I had bad luck with Bob Maheu." 
Maheu's career is well-known and details would easily be available to anyone who wanted to write that paragraph and attribute it to Hughes, sources pointed out. The unpleasant characterizations attributed to Hughes about Maheu would logically fit the mood of a man sued for $50 million by a former employee, as Hughes has been sued by Maheu. 
At another Point, Hughes' well­known penchant for calling people at odd hours is brought into the manuscript as follows: 
"Irving: Let's go on. That business about you calling people at 4 o'clock in the morning and getting the truth out of them because they're sleeping and dazed. Do you remember any specific instances that you can tell me? 
"Howard: I remember several. "Yeah, I'll tell you one. This was a very important one, it just so happened, and in a way it led to my realizing that Noah Deitrick had to go." 
This was lollowed, all at­tributed to Hughes, who has frequently been described as resentful of talk about his women friends, by a long section full of talk of sexual exploits in Hollywood in the nineteen­thirties and nineteen-forties. 
Deitrich, who worked for Hughes for about 32 years also was dismissed, as was Maheu. Dietrich's experiences with Hughes for about 32 years also was dismissed, as was Maheu. Dietrich's experiences with Hughes are recounted in a book called "Howard," to be published at the end of the month. 
One of the stories told to 
After Thursday night "no unmarked bills of any denomination will be accepted," Stepic added. 
Last year's culprits were ap­prehended because they at­


tempted to cash in all the stolen bills at once. 
Stepic said that he did not report the incident to South Bend police because "last year's reports and fingerprinting didn't help us." 
The carnival profitted $5,000 on its opening night with $2,000 of this money coming from ad­mission charges. Over $14,000 in raffle revenue has also been collected. 
Gamblers and fun seekers can still enjoy the festival on Thur­sday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday. The carnival will open at 7:00 in the evening every day except Sunday. One o'clock is the opening time for the fair's last day. 
hundreds of people over the years 
by Dietrich and recounted in his 
book, is also in the manuscript for 
the "autobiography." 
This story has Hughes' father 
buying up the bar stock of the 
Rice Hotel in Houston when 
prohibition began, and then 
storing the liquor in the Hughes 
home in Houston. 
About 1930, when he was 
knocking around Hollywood with 
people who were supplied with 
Student Discount 

illegal liquor from Canada, ac­
For Thurs. 8 pm Sat. 2 pm 
Sun. 6 pm 
Tickets are 12 Reqular Price

cording to this story, Howard 
Hughes remembered his late 
Discount Tickets must be 

father's hoard of liquor. 
purchased at ACC box office 


The liquor was now locked in the vault of the Howard Hughes home in Los Angeles, according 

Special

to the story, and Dietrich and his employer both knew the com­bination. Hughes, according to 

Valentine's Day Section 

the story, called Dietrich from another city and asked him to get 
Classified Ads 

some liquor from the vault. But, according to this story, 
10 words for 50¢

Dietrich was unable to open the vault because Hughes had 
or 20 words for $1 .00 

changed the combination. "That very incident sums up 
Come to the

his character," Dietrich said of his former employer in a 

Fiesta Lounge

telephone interview today after he confirmed the account in the 
LaFortune Center

"autobiography" and suggested how it could have been known 
1 pm -4 pm Thursday Feb. 10

publicly. Whatever the fairness of that 
thru Sunday Feb. 13 

judgment, neither this story nor any of the others in those ex­cerpts obtained by The New York 
or send your message with payment to Times Today, shows that Howard Hughes had any part in 
OBSERVER, Box 11, Notre Dame, Indiana 
preparing the "autobiography" submitted to McGraw-Hill by 
46556 

Irving. 
TONIGHT Tickets forRTCHIE HAVENS and WINTER CONSORT will be on sale in the DINING HALLS They're $2.50, 3 $3.50, & $4.50­ 
Mock Convention There will be a meeting on Thursday, Feb. 10, of all students interested in being campaign managers for the various Democratic candidates at the Mock Convention, April 24-27. This short meeting wil! begin at 7 pm in the Fiesta Lounge of LaFortune Student Center.  

Wednesday. February 9, 1972
THE OBSERVER 





Letters ... 
. . . on gay lib, faith, journalism, editorials, and foetuses 
N D Gay liberation phrase "physical clove'?" I guess one must be willing to Nicene' Creed, which they claim Columbus". I have a very close, dear friend suffer for a good thing, but I used to be said at Masses here, Of course the pictures of Editor: for whom I can honestly say I apologize for those who may and the Babylonian Captivity, aborted foetuses are "tasteless" 
This letter is addressed to"One hold a deep love. I would cause you pain. and others would probably be to look at -yet is murder ever in Who Cares" and people in the probably sacrifice as much for interested in learning what either taste, especially when the same situation. Notre Dame is no him as for the woman I love. I A very sincere thank you from of them refer to. helpless victims are discarded as 
place to be gay, bisexual or even am not a bisexual, in terms of across the road Admittedly, these students are refuse in garbage cans'? These heterosexual. The place is that engaging in sexual relations with in a minority, but I do think the children are not squashed frogs hungup. For homosexuals, the members of both sexes, no desire Administration could do nor appendectomies. hyper-masculinity of this campus to engage in sexual activity with How • Bout Some Tix? something to help them meet In the South Ben Tribun's forbids any visible expression of my friend, though I can't say I their needs. Since Fr. Burtchaell "Voice of the People" (2-5-72), love or affection between two would definitely turn him away if doesn't like "Shadow positions," Dr. Donald G. White reports that 
Editor: 
men. The gay people on campus he approached me. The fact is, We, the undernourished, creating a special department or "in the first 12 months under the must hide their true feelings for while I may not be "doing it," I hereby submit this letter in office for them probably isn't in new law in New York there were 
fear of harassment, intimidation can respect others' wishes to order. Even so, I doubt that it's 125,000 abortions (the population 
protest to the decision by the Hall 
and ridicule. If that isn't op­participate, just as extension President's Council to loving of the University to ignore of South Bend ! ). " Would the
return 
pression, I don't know what is. over that thin hairline from this minority. I'm not saying the writers of the "open letter"
distribution of Co-Ex tickets to
physical caresses to the obvious administration should actually do object to a report and picture if
Things are changing around the individual halls. We feel that 
limits. something entire
here. Many of the gay un­the rationale behind this move to encourage their the population of South 
In view of the tremendous existence -for that is obviously Bend was massacred'?
derworld at Notre Dame are tired was, in fact, not rational, but
social pressures imposed, it asking too much. But perhaps it Furthermore, one is not obliged 
of hiding. We have founded the paranoid. The HPC seems to
would seem evident that the could give them at least, a sign of to read The Observer "around
Notre Dame Gay Liberation. If fear that everyone was not
changes in our moralistic views peace. lunch hour" -and yet this might
you want to join us or just talk to getting a fair chance to partake 
others in the same situation, you cannot come from within, in the of the may fruits of an evening even be more effective in gay population, but from without, Devotedly, shocking us into realizing that
can contact us through the South meal at St. Mary's. 
Bend Gay Alliance at 272-8715 or in the judging society. Perhaps if The facts, however, show that, J.L. Wilk our society condones such a they look into themselves, they criminal act.
contact Joseph Valez, spokesman through both methods of
will find the capacity to judge This is a very important moral 
for the Notre Dame Gay distribution, there are invariably 
more humanely. Until then, until Editorials vs. Character question -yet it cannot be
Liberation. tickets left over or unused each
that time when the masses will debated upon because there is
day. The facts also show that 
Editor:

Peace, accept the homosexual or more students do take advantage only one decision which can be 
bisexual, people will just have to made concerning this "killing of
Another Who Cares of this opportunity when the The unsigned editorial in the
remain in hiding as they have innocents". This campaign is far 
tickets are distributed solely 
Observer for Friday, January 28,

been, behind closed doors, and it from primitive and is not
through the Student Union. a 
with its allusion to the Provost of

is for this distaste of public means of insulting the com­
Therefore, it would seem only
Another View of Gay pressurethatlamforcedtoleave the University being a person munity. Life and existence begin 
fair that those who want to 
''who has never and probably will 

this letter at the moment of conception and 
participate in the Co-Ex program 
never have the interests of the the very fact that some members

Editor: be given that chance. There are 
This is in response to the letter unsigned. many reasons why a student students at heart" was of the community "advertise" for 
irresponsible character 

this uncivilized behavior should
by "One Who Cares," who would not be able to participate assassination. 
be more insulting.

claimed in Tuesday's paper to be on his hall's "allotted" night. 
I, like so may others, suffered With regards to the objection

a bisexual, and a lonely one at Therefore, why not leave things through the ignominy of the Joe
And Yet Another on the grounds of "egotistical
that. Upon reading that letter, I as they were'? 
McCarthy era. The writer of the hypocrisy" -I leave this to be

discussed its implications with We sincerely hope that the Hall 
Editor: editorial is too young to un­answered by the Knights of
several people, most of who told Presidents will see their decision me that they just couldn't I would be very grateful to you has stilted rather than facilitated derstand the vicious and cruel Columbus for only they can know 
if you were to print this letter destruction of men's reputations completely what the writers of
comprehend the wants of the more active participation in the
because I feel very strongly through irresponsible the "open letter" meant.
homo-or bisexual. This letter left Co-Ex program, and will reverse statements. The editorial writer, about what I have said, and it
a great impact on me, though, it. 
like Joe McCarthy, gratuituously 

may be a help to "One Who Marie-Christine Ostricand I feel it would be helpful if I made the above statement(in your
stated my views on the subject. Cares" response to Robert D. Long St. Mary's College 
letter). without offering evidence or
First of all, I can not criticize James B. Clarke
People who are loving or have qualification. He is old enough,
this individual or laugh at him, Thomas J. McGlynn
experienced a similar situation however, to understand the
and I don't see why others should Steven A. Buccini
will understand and accept you. immorality of his action.
have to use him as their punching James Meehan
One should be able to love anyone I believe the above statement is
bag, which with each successive John Lombard And A Poem.••
he chooses, freely and without false. For example, I returned
blow delivered fills their egos Dave Westenkirchner
guilt. That includes any way in from a business trip to Chicago
with the masculinity they William L. Smith Editor: 
which he wants to express his late in the evening a week ago. I
desperately need. How insecure wished to see the Provost on anlove. <One would think that
in their own sexual roles must A Poem --Series 
people would be concerned with a NO vs. Faith important matter, and was quite The winners have lostthose people be who criticize 
lack of love rather than with who willing to wait outside his room
loudest the homosexual! In any And the losers are now we;
shortly after midnight until he 

case, although I think I un­one loves.) Editor: Once were the winners ­
To love a person of the same finished counseling two students Now only second rate.
derstand his feelings, I cannot 
sex and to express your love for Maria Gallagher's article <although I had called for an 
agree with· his suggestions bring 
him physically is not wrong or "The Catholic University as a appointment before I left The morning dawns on theGay Lib more out into the open. I bad at all( trust your good Danger to the Faith" in last Chicago).
feel that all this could succeed i11 Falling snow and the 
feelings and know that you are Thursday's Observer is a When I left his room with my Falling hearts do so not sodoing is increasing the tension 
good). It is unfair that noteworthy one. She describes business concluded at I a.m. he
between groups of people. This is other Gracefully.
people's attitudes cause doubt and explains well the source of still had three students who 
not the fault of the gay in­
and fear and restraint, and label some of the problems which desired to see him on personal Why, why, the air is filled.
dividual, but rather of the social 
you as "homosexual" or Catholic students experience at matters that evening. Returning Known for a minutestructure instituted and main­"bisexual". There should be no this university. Believe it or not, to my room on campus that night, Throughout the world --the world tained by those menti 
ned earlier who need the need for you to feel that you must there actually are students here I knew this was not a singular Thinks and leaves --but we make a decision as to whether who think that religion at its roots experience -it must have hap­
homosexual strictly for 
you want a full commitment to addresses itself to cosmic pened again and again. Perhaps We have the full thought
criticism. 
the "gay" world. What is im­questions and ought to be the men at Dillon and across the
It is to that distinct group that And Our thoughts can't 
a campus could speak to this
this letter should be directed, for portant is the fact that you are something more than stylish Leave this at all. 
happily willing to make a com­happening. They believe Jesus is question.
if any one of them looks inside I'm thinking; losing -­
himself he may be very surprised mitment to a person. Others God as well as man and think that After reading the editorial, I to find just the homosexual he should recognize this as good and He deserves a degree of realized, once again, that Losing ain't all that fun hates. I would ask anyone not make it difficult for you. reverence. (Some, though, agree freedom of the press at times It isn't great to lose a dream 
Please don't accept these His portrayal as exacts a high price, but it should 
reading this letter to think back that current To see a promise crumble 
labels used by people who must swinging revolutionary is not never be the price of slandering a 
upon an occassion in which you Before one's very own eyes.
place others in a neat little slot in altogether unattractive.) They man's reputation.
were re-united with a very close 
order to "understand" them. also believe that the sacraments After two character
friend after being separated for a Anger flows -and anger can flow 
long period of time. Try to <Have patience, because even and attendance at Sunday Mass assassinations in a week by the far this is an effort on their part.) are not unimportant parts of the Observer, it might be well for the
remember how warm and Why why why; the unspeakable
Faith.. They think deliberate editors to consider publishing It anguishes me and
reassuring the firm grip if his That you have experienced drunkenness and its glorification twice a week to give themselves Most of us all.
hand was in yours when shaking 
physical love with someone of and ripping-off others' property and their staff an opportunity for 
hands. Or, recall an occassion 
when you were at grips with the your own sex, does not mean that is wrong. <Indeed, they even reflection on their noble Maybe I'll be leaving, maybe I you are thus incapable of of a believe there are such things as responsibility.
world, and remember how can't 
comforting your friend-s arm similar love relatiOnship with right and wrong, and that in­But it is known the around your shoulder was. Ifyou someone of the opposite sex. So if dividuals, as well as "society" Sincerely yours, Losers have lost that makes you a so-called are capable of doing right and
can conjur up in your mind either And there are no winners. 
of these two memories ( and I "bisexual", then what does that wrong.) They believe that Msgr. John J. Egan Bye.mean'? It really is one who can shacking-up with St. Mary's girls Faculty, Dept. of Theology,
should doubt your sincerity to self 
love deeply and freely regardless Urban Studies
if you can not), you have engaged and screwing townies (The latter 
of sex. That's fantastic! aren't worth more -_ than ain physical caresses of a member 
of the same sex, and you ob­Know that the superficial couple hours of your time) are Foetus Pix: Gross vs. Effective re~arks to which you may be wrong. <There's that awful word 
viously received pleasure from 
again. Bur really, some of them Editor,
the act. Where, then is the line to subJect are contributed by those The Observer 
who speak out of context and do even believe there's such a thing Box IIbe drawn between these physical as "Sin.") Some of them know I am writing this in reference to
caresses and the obviouS sexual not have a heart big enough to Notrt> Dame, Ind. 
connotations inferred in the encompass all the world. the difference between the the "open letter to the Knights of 



Wednesday, February 9, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 11 
Irish revert to form; lose 86-75 
O'Mara nets 28 but St. John'~ proves too tough for ND cagers 

by Eric Kinkopf The ND roundballers have been physical club we've met besides Jack Frost struck again at the plagued all year by cold shooting UCLA and that Lyons kid reallyperformances at the beginning of put it together for them at the
Convo last night. 
The little demon stuck the second half. end. Take away his buckets and 
around for only about two Close half-time scores have we're still in the game." 
minutes <2 minutes and 24 been turned into semi-routs by "Everybody on our squad 
seconds to be exact l but it was the inability of the Irish to score played well. But we're not a 
long enough to cool off the Irish once they return from the physical team. We got tired 
shooting hands at the beginning dressing room. battling them on the boards and 
of the second half, allowing the And it happened once again. then we began to shoot poorly. 
H.edmen to outscore the Irish 9-2 Bill Schaeffer, who had a good Willie Townsend did a great 
and pull away from the Digger's shooting night hitting 9 of 13, put job on Mel Davis, holding Davis 
kids as the Irish dropped another the Redmen on the scoreboard at to 15 points, and Tom 0' Mara 
86-75, to St. John's University. 19:39 with a twelve footer from played well, but we just couldn't 
The Irish trailed coach Frank the base line. play well enough to win. 
Mulzoff's boys by only one point Bill Phillips converted a three Tom O'Mara took game 
at half-time, 46-45, but that cold point play thirty seconds later scoring honors with 28 points, 11 
period at the outset of the second and the Redman lead was four of 23 from the floor, 6 of 6 from 
stanza sealed the Irish' destiny. points, 51-47. the charity stripe. Don Silinski 
turned in another splendid
The Irish held four point ad­Willis T d~opped one over the 
vantages over the Redmen twice head of Mel Davis with 1:50 gone performance scoring 27 points, 
in the first half, but lost the lead in the half, to bring the Irish and Gary Novak added 12 for the 
on a Richie Lyons foul shot with within four, but Davis and losers. 
8: 05 showing on the clock. Schaeffer hit two in a row to put Both John Egart and Willie 
Townsend dropped in 9 points.
Leading at that point 30-29, the the Redmen ahead 55-47. 
The St. John's scoring was even 
Redman scored four more before And that spurt just seemed to 
more well balanced than the Irish 
the Irish registered on the take the steam out of the Irish. •
attack.
scoreboard. 
The lead stayed around seven 
Bill Schaeffer led the Redman
After Lyons converted the foul points until the Irish put on a last with 18, followed by Richiethe Irish missed a 10 footer, and ditch effort with 9:53 left in the 
Lyons with 17 points. All­
the Redmen came down the floor game. 
American candidate Mel Davis 
on a fast break with Lyons hitting The fans awoke from their scored 15, seven below hisEd Searcy for a driving lay-up. 
sleep at that point, but the season's average.
Another missed shot by the Irish handled the ball like they Greg Cluess added 13, Ed 
Irish, and the Redman worked 
were in a trance. They came Searcy 7, and Bill Phillips scored the ball inside where Mel Davis down the floor four times in the 12 points to wrap up the Redman missed on a 5 footer, but 7-0 Bill next two minutes, trailing by only scoringPhillips tipped in the bound for a six, 66-60, but they failed to score 
Both teams shot 43 percentfive point Redmen lead. each time and when Ed Searcy from the field, but the Redmen 
The Irish came right back, with converted a foul shot at 7:32 to 
held the edge in the free toss 
Tom O'Mara hitting two of his 22 stretch the Redman lead to seven percentage 73 to 65 percent.
first half points from 25 feet out to points, it was, for all intensive 
The Redmen holding a definite 
bring the Irish back within three, purposes, all over. 
height advantage over the Irish,
34-31. A-sparkling performance by outrebounded the resident 
Willie Townsend hit a turn­Richie Lyons, hitting for 8 points roundballers 57-44. 
around jumper 22 seconds later to in the last five minutes wrapped The loss dropped the Irish ·bring the Irish within one, 34-33, up the fourteenth Redman vic­record to 4-14. 
hut that was the closest the Irish tory. The next Irish basketball game 
got for the rest of the game. Coach Phelps had only praise is Saturday afternoon at 1:40 in 
In the second half it was the for the St. John's squad, his own the Convo versus DePaul . same story, the same script, and band of players ~fter the game. Maybe someone can turn up the once again it led to the same heat in the Irish dressing room at
"You can't take anythingending. from St. John's. They're the best half-time for that one. 




Jtreshman cagers down Ball State, Glen Oaks 
Frosh Cl'ntt·r (>(•tl' Crotty scorl'd 22 points against Ball State and added :!:t last night against Glen Oaks. 
The freshman cagers continued Freshman sensation Gary Center Pete Crotty also con­of the baby Irish, and when Glen Oaks hit 31 of 78 for 40 
Gerald Edwards made a lay-up

their winning ways with victories Brokaw unleashed his vast array tributed heavily to the Notre percent. 
over Glen Oaks Junior College, of sparkling moves last night for Dame attack as he scored 23 at 8:36 the Notre Dame lead had The Irish ·had five men in 98-76, last night at the Convo and 36 points as the Irish yearlings points, 11 on foul shots, and been cut to 70-67. At this point double figures as they eased past 
the Ball State freshman team 86-overcame an early Glen Oaks Jr. grabbed 22 rebounds. Dwight Gary Brokaw took matters into Ball State, 86-80, Monday night. College lead, and went on to coast Clay was limited to 12 points as his own hands and scored eleven 
80 Monday night in Muncie, In­Peter Crotty led the young Irish 
to a 98-76 victory. he was handicapped by leg points in the next five minutes to
diana. in scoring with 22 points, on 10 
cramps in the second half. Tom help create a 90-72 bulge for field goals and 2 conversionsVarga produced 1! points, 8 of Notre Dame with 3: 18 left. 
from the charity stripe. Tomthem in the first half when the Coach Frank McLaughlin Varga added 16 to the Irish totals, Irish needed them. began to send in his substitutes at and Gary Brokaw, in foul troubleGlen Oaks controlled the early this point, and they performed for much of the second half, pace of the game and a Marvin creditably. Jim Donnelly closed dropped in 15.

Brown bomb from the outside the scoring at 98-76 by stealing an Dwight Clay, who netted 16boosted them to an 18-12 margin inbounds pass and laying the ball points, converted on several 
at 11:51 of the first half. in. 
crucial one-and-one situationsThe Vikings continued to in­Notre Dame made good on 36 late in the game to insure the crease their lead, but when it of 82 shots from the field for a 44 Irish victory.

reached 25-16, Notre Dame percent shooting percentage. 
suddenly turned the game around by reeling off eight straight 
Record setting wrestlers 

points. Dwight Clay capped off 
the hot shooting ..pree by con­

set sights on new marks 

necting on a long jump shot to 
Mather's club has already wongive the Irish a 28-27 lead with Notre Dame's record breaking eight dual meets, losing but two.

6:12 remaining. wrestling team, which has sur­
Notre Dame was able to con­passed or equaled 21 all-time Commenting on the progress tinue their onslaught and at in­Irish marks, has its sights set on his freshman and sophomore termission they were on the long establishing a couple more laden squad has made this end of a 45-40 score. standards this weekend. season, coach Mather remarked, 
The second-half saw the dam The Irish face Findlay College "The maturation and enthusiasm break loose against Wen Oaks as Friday at 7 pm in the ACC and of the team has created a spirit Notre Dame outscorf?'d them 53-36 host Akron U. Saturday at 7:30 that is indicative of all winning in this pt>riod. pm. In their last home match, a teams. Sometimes, without equal 
Brokaw had 21 of his 36 points thrilling, 22-21 victory over John skills, they win on heart and in this portion of the contest. Carroll U., the Irish grapplers determination. We ask one thing 
Partly responsible for the drew a record crowd to of over of our wrestlers -that is, to come breakdown of the Viking defense 2,000 to the Convo's auxiliary off the mat not necessarily as in this period was the foul trouble gym and have hopes of topping winners, but with pride in they had gotten into in the first that number this weekend. themselves. Many times they've 
-
twenty minutes. Three of their One record that is almost sure come off the mat with their pride 
,_ 
players left the game with 5 fouls, to fall this weekend is the all-time and as winners." and in all the team committed 25. Notre Dame mark for team wins There is no admission charge Still, Glen Oaks was able to in a season, eight, set by the '68-69 for the team's home matches this remain within striking distance Irish. This year, coach Terry weekend. 
Wednesday, February 9, 1972

Page 12 THE OBSERVER 
CanaCa-easing tension 
by Tom Drape 
"'· ~nadian Senate Leader and prominent statesman Paul Martin, said Monday night that Canada is "actively seeking an easing of tensions in an effort of world peace." 
He justified recent. , un­precedented Canadian contacts with Communist countries and present Canadian economic and domestic feelings.
.. 

Paul Martin 
Martin's lecture entitled, "Canada and Her Mighty Neigh­bors," was hosted by the Notre Dame Institute for International Studies at the Center for Con­tinuing Education. 
A former president of NATO, Canadian foreign minister, longstanding political figure in Canada and presently, Leader of the Government in the Senate, Mr. Martin elaborated on changing Canadian foreign policies. · Immediately recognizing the recent change in Canadian feelings toward Communist countries and the subsequent concern of it's powerful, con­tinental neighbor, the U.S., Martin likened present tensions to those of the Cold War and expressed that Canada hoped such actions would help to ease them. 
In pursuit of this goal, Canada voted for the recognition of the People's Republic of China last year and received Russian Foreign Minister Alex Kosygin for a tour of Canadian Cities last October, he claimed. 
Mr. Martin was Kosygin's
personal guide and related a
basic difference, which he discussed with Kosygin, as being 
a  religious  idea  between  the  
Communist  countries  and  the  
West.  

In justifying Canada's chang~d attitude toward the Commurust Bloc, Martin also brought to mind the changing attitude of our own country. He cited President Nixon's upcoming visit to China at the end of this month and our decision to allow China ad­mittance to the U.N: Security Council. 
He complimented Former Secretary of State Dean Rusk on his efforts while in office and mostly on the greatness of Mr. Rusk's character. "Those who misread these decisions and individual efforts, do violence to all whom are seeking peace." 
The main relation between Canada, he claimed, and the United States is trade. Mr. Martin expressed great concern about the way that Canada's diversified trading reputation has been concentrated. Economically Canada depends upon the U.S. far more than their second and third traders, the Commonwealth and Japan. He cited the fact that Canadians are almost solely concerned with trading relation with the U.S. 
~~------~------------~~--------------­
while Americans, on the other hand, remain relatively non­chalant. 
"The United States' percentage of export of their Gross National Product is 4 percent. Of that 4 percent, Canada purchases one fourth of it." Martin went on to cite that two--thirds of Canada's exports go to the U.S. 
Martin commented that Canada is suspicious that the United States is after her raw materials rather than manufactured goods, the export
of which are critical to Canadian 
· d
1
capita an consumer con­
sumption.
The Commonwealth and Japan are also suspected of such in­tents. If this becomes the case, 
Mr. Martin added, Canada would thus be forced to turn to those who do need manufactured ex­ports, most probably Communist and Non-Commonwealth coun­tries. 
"This is not to say that we are anti-American. Nothing can ever replace our alliance with the U.S.," Mr. Martin added firmly. He explained that each would have to pursue their independent foreign and domestic courses in order to have a positive and constructive value for peace in the world. 
Domestically, Canada is protective of its raw materials which, according to Martin, become more important with the evolvement of time. 
When questioned concerning the Continental Energy policy, Mr. Martin replied that as of now, no official stand has been for­mulated but that any resource tapped would have to have been scientifically qualified as in abundance. Proposed pipelines from Alaska through Canada were also mentioned with Mr. Martin replying that likewise no decisions had been met. 







Clearance 
Here are six very special offerings -there's more "in store'' 
SWEATERS•.•YOU SAVE lh 
Reg. $11 to $35, long & short sleeves, sleeveless in an excellent selection of colors, fabrics and neck styles. 

DRESS SHIRTS•••EXACTL Y 1;2 
You'll recognize the name, long sleeve. Your favorites. 

BODY SHIRTS•••SAVE 1;2 NOW 
A special group of these great sport fashions 

ALL WEATHER COATS ••. 
Lined and unlined styles from a special groupp... l ...~CP"'PES...-C __,l_,
1"r'R ..... .....U SPORTS COATS••. ¥4, Vz, Ya OFF 
j 
From a good selection of woven styles. Many colors, patterns. 
MEN'S SUITS ••.¥4, Vz, 113, OFF 
A good selection of colors and sizes. Quality apparel. 
PAY NEXT SUMMER 
with no carrying charge 
Pay next June, July and August when it's more convenient. It's the exclusive Campus Shop Way to buy. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 
·POETRY WANTED for An­thology. Include stamped en­velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California. 90021. 
STUDENTS WANTED for small technical school. Curriculum ECPD accredited. Major in 9 fields of drafting, 2 fields of Civil and Electronics. A.S. Degree. Industry recruits on our campus. Transfers accepted February 14th through 21st. Institute of Drafting and Technology, Morrison, 
Illinois, 61270. 
Need ride for HTH from Penn State (along 1-80) to ND tor weekend of Feb. 11. Will share $. 
Bob 1782. 
Desperately need rides tor 2 young ladies from Kent State to Notre Dame and back on the weekend of February 11, 12 and 
13. Call 6987 and ask for John or Ken. 
Need ride to Poughkeepsie or New York Feb. 10. 1464. 
Needed: Enterprising young individual who would like to make $400 or so next fall selling Time, Lite, & Sports Illustrated. (That's how much I made). Send ap­plications (with qualifications) to Thomas Drexler, 530 S. Carroll Apt. A, South Bend, Indiana, 46601. Must be Postmarked 2-12­72 or earlier. Freshman or Sophomore preferred. 
Need ride to Dayton. Can leave Thurs. or Fri. Will share ex­penses. Call Pat 7920. 
In PI RG needs petitioners. Call 3827 or 3610. 
Wanted: Off-campus house for next year, 6 bedrooms. If you know of any please call John 7864. 
Models needed. $10-hr. Male or female. Call 283-6811, 6-8 pm. 
PERSONALS 
Dear Ann, I'm sorry (hie!. I'm sorry (hie), I'm sorry 
The Colonel and The Swan. 
Are you a man? What you've got is what I want. What I've got is what you need. Get your yah yahs... Call Meme 5236. 
Margie, Max, Karen: They can do it ALL, sports tans! 
St. Mary's girls. Why wait till next year to begin living in Walsh? You can start now. Lively acc;omodations available. 
What will the dawn of the 14th bring? 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: 2calculus books, Calculus and Analytical Geometry by Biddle. Please claim at Pan­dora's Books. 
Lost: Glass with dark brown frames in brown case. Somewhere between Nieuwland and Engineering Bldgs. Bob 1185. 
Lost: Electric wristwatch, Black band with buckle. Mark 1730. 
Lost: '72 class ring at National Guard Armory (Kick-off Party); white and gold and blue stone; Name inscribed on back. 
Reward. Call John 232-2725. 
Lost: Gold ring, looks like a belt buckle. Initialed and dated inside. Call 8985. 
Lost: r-hand black ski glove near bookstore. Call John 7802. 
Lost: red, yellow, blue striped scarf. Call Tom: 8369. 
FOR SALE 
Parts and Accessories tor Im­ported cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (roseland) '.!72-7187. 
For Sale: Martin D-35 G String; Kuston Amp--100 Watt, 4 Chan; Shure Mike & Stand; Gibson F­Hole Electric. All new 232-6383. 
New STEREO SPEAKERS combining excellent sound and decorative looks at reasonable prices. Call 283-8462 or come to 101 Sorin. 
S-track tapes tor sale. 230 Fisher, 1972. 
Preferred Renters -4 Bedroom, newly redecorated apartment, Kitchen, bath and dining facilities. $50 per month per student. 742 West Indiana. Call 272-6665. 
Handcarved Meerschaum pipes direct from Istanbul all first quality · Student prices. 287-4389. 
Returning to France. Must sell 1970 Simca, blue, 5-door, excellent condition, great as a camper! !New air matresses included.) 232-6493. 
Say I love you with flowers tor Valentines Day. Special student rat~s and delivery. 8102 -5194. 
NOTICES 
DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and Within Europe. Leave anytime from NY· Chicago. Flight Center 227 North RandalL Madison, WI 53706 (608) 263-3131. 
Need typing done??? Will do typing for reasonable rates and on short notice --don't waste time pecking away -Call Chip at 8256. 
ROME, ITALY. Summer Program. Stimulating Curriculum. Oustanding faculty. Etruscan Archeology Program. Transferable credits. June 12­July 19. $760. Write: Trinity College-Rome Campus Trinity College Hartford, Connecticut. 06106. 
Attention Pre-law students!!! LSAT review course now ac­cepting students tor April (and other LSAT tests. l For in­formation contact: Educational 
Ideas, Kelly Flynn, 283-8164. Average score increase 10 points. 
Buses will be running to Shula's on Friday. They will leave from the Center for Continuing Education from 2:00 pm as they fill. Round trip is $1.00 or SO cents one way. You can even join the Bowling Club of ND if you want. 
(That's who is sponsering the buses.) 
OVERSEAS JOBS FOR STUDENTS. Australia, Europe, 
S. America, Africa, etc. All professions and occupations, $700 to $3,00 monthly. Expenses paid, overtime, sightseeing, Free in­formation Write, JOBS OVERSEAS, Dept. F2, Box 15071, San Diego, Ca. 92115. 
lnPIRG open meeting for SMC students 7 pm tonight in coffee house under O'Laughlin. 
EUROPE THIS SUMMER-Notre Dame credit at University of Vienna, Austria. Ample op­portunity tor tours or independent travel. 234-6519. 
Words 1da 2da Jda 4da 5da 
1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 
Give a Valentine in the Observer. Let someone know you're thinking of them. 


' 








