_......----­
~~//fylrL I 

1 1
On The Inside 
Coex classes in qu~stion 
again... page 2 
Directories by Nov. 21... page 3 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 48 Tuesday, November 14, 1972 

SLC sets date for open hearing 
Ai1ns to eli1ninate overcrowding of dor1ns 
by Jerry Rradley Staff Reporter 

The SLC representatives announced an open mPeting to discuss on and off-camp~:~s
rPsidcnces for Monday, Nov. 20, at 4: 15 m lhP Center for Continuing Education. The hearing session. the first of five proposed meetings, will consider the areas of procedure for determining who moves _off l'ampus. room pick procedures, selectiOn of residence halls for undergraduate women. and the present stay hall system. The focus of the hearing will be those factors which appear to have contributed lhC' situation of overcrowding which
10 

occured this year in the on-campus
n•sidence halls.· The meeting is intended 
:o initiate the necessary planning at this 
:ime so as to minimize the risk of over-
l'rowding next year. 

i\: vesterday afternoon's meeting in the 
llolv ·cross Hall Halfway House the SLC 
rC'presentatives listened to reports from standing committees. Sister John Miriam Jom's. assistant to the Provost, presented 
:he C'ampus Life Committee's report on 
:he selection of residence halls for un­dergraduate women students. The report pointed out that the committee's ddibcrations were closely associated with an ultimate enrollment figure for women in lhe 1973-74 school year. The campus life committee voted unanimously that the hall or halls selected should be on the North Quad so that the l'Oncentration of women would ~ot be in 
one place. The committee also ~l\uled out :he two towers, citing safety and location problems.
ThC' list below is the suggested order of halls the committee proposed. The projections are based on several enrollmmt options for the 1973-74 year. l'rC'sently there are 305 women in Badin and Wal~h and 25 living off-cam~us. 

• ,f IIIHIHIIItum nn•nm•mmmmummumt mnmumnmmnuumnllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll /,1, Total enrollment 
of women 1973-74 
706 
687 636 607-617 577-571 
Halls 
Cavanaugh and St. Ed's 
Breen-Philips and St. Ed's 
Keenan 
Stanford or Farley 
Zahm or Cavanaugh 
Women relocated 
376 
357 
306 
288 
277 
247 241 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIUlllllutllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
percentage of new students in the con­H'rted ha lis. 
A survery conducted in Walsh Hall by :he committee revealed that 50 women would like to relocate. Of 173 women eontacted, nine said that they would like to move off campus. 
Student representative Anthony Abowd reported on the Hall Life Committee's proposals for forcing students off-campus. The committee suggested that the university exploit all voluntary means to l'ncourage students to move off-campus. The University should provide more in­formation on off-campus living, the report suggested. 
The committee foresaw two methods of approaching the problem. The report suggested as two extremes, a campus wide lottery to determine who must live off­l'ampus, or a "selective exclusion of hall rPsidents deemed not compatible with hall life by some hall committee or other mPthod." 

Sr. John Miriam Jones: presents Campus 
Life Committee's report on selection 
women's residences to the SLC. 
The criteria used in selecting the list of halls included location, physical layout, security. and the cost of renovation. St. Ed's-Cavanaugh proposal was cited for it's cmtral location and because it has the most single rooms. An important criteria used in the selection was the size of the hall r<'lative to the number of woman admitted. 
The University Quota Committee will nwPt WPdnesday to discuss the number of women Notre Dame will admit next year. 
The committee agreed that the SLC should continue to require women students to live on campus. The committee also proposed that the women in Badin and Walsh be allowed to relocate in any women's dorm on campus. The report suggestt•d that relocation would reduce the 
Floyd Kezele read the report of the planning committee reported that it would stick to last year's policy of dealing with long-range issues. The committee would deal with the plausibility of going towards ultimate life styles like coed dorms and would deal with the question of the LaFortune Student Center. 
ThC' Rules Committee reported that they W<'rt' in touch with the Indiana State Legislature waiting on any proposals to lowPr the legal age. The Committee ex­pects to hear from the Legislature soon aftpr the first of February when the new sPssion begins. The new bill would effect the age on consent needed to move off­eampus. 
Larry Mentz was unanimously allowed a seat on the Council as a speaking member for the Law School. 
The meeting concluded after the Council voted Dean Link, Professor Strauder and Larry Kascht to the Judicial and Appeals Board. 
1 1 j 
1 
1 
~ 

Messbarger will appeal rejection of tenure 
by Don Ruane Executive Editor 
St. Mary's College Professor Paul MPssbarger, yesterday, filed an appeal to his rejection for tenure with President Edward Henry. 
The former English department chairman learned of the rejection one week ago and said he was "shocked" because he felt he "probably had the best case for tenure" among the candidates under consideration. 
MPssbarger is not sure what will come of his appeal since the appeal procedure is not very clear. It is described in the Governance of the College, a manual containing the by-laws of the Board of Trustees, thP faculty and administrative manuals. 
The campus chapter of the American Association of University Professors has sent inquiries to the president, and to its national office inWashington D.C. According to the chapter secretary, Linnea Vacca, the association will investigate how the decision was made, if it acts at all. She said last night that she will convene the AAUP members as soon as possible to discuss the situation. 
Chapter president Dr. Donald Horning was not available for comment because he is recuperating from a heart attack, and is still hospitalized in fair condition. 
Stories Conflict 
Messbarger said there are several peculiarities about his case. The most prominent for him seems to be the fact that he was considered last spring after the merger moratorium was liflted, and that he has been reconsidered. 
According to Messbarger, he received a favorable 
recommendation last spring. He described the second evaluation as "double jeopardy," and challenged the priority of reconsidering a tenure case that had been complete last year." 
According to a statement released last night by Rank and Tenure Committee Chairman Dr. Richard Pilger, "Those who were under consideration for tenure were not granted it; they were issued terminal contracts indicating that they would not be retained beyond the 1972-73 academic year; some of them were separately informed that their cases would be reviewed this fall." 
Pilger said Messbarger was among those separately informed. The majority of those reconsidered were granted tenure. 
Messbarger said there were seven candidates, but Pilger said the figure is not accurate. He would not say how many were considered, stating that it is not public information. 
Another peculiarity, according to Messbarger, concerns the reorganized tenure process. The Board of Regents, which replaced the trustees when St. Mary's was reincorporated earlier this year now has the final power to grant or refuse tenure. Messbarger contends that the board participated in the entire process and questions this participation. Pilger said the Regents had nothing to do with his committee's recom­mendation. 
The tenure process begins with recommendations from dep ...rtment chairmen which are sent to the Rank and Tenure Committee for a recommendation. The recommendation is then considered by the president who makes a decision, which is submitted to the Board of Regents for approval. Student evaluations are used in the process. 
No Impropriety 

Pilger siad he is "satisfied that there has been no 
impropriety in any of the tenure deliberations this fall." His statement, a copy of which was given to Messbarger last Wednesday, emphasizes that decisions are made on the candidates merits and are not the results of "bias or whim." 

the observer Tuesday, November 14, 1972 
warld briefs 
((') 1!17:! New York Times 

Saigon--South Vietnam's foreign minister Tran Van Lam said Monday that the visit of Gen. Alexander M. Haig, Jr. has brought the United States and South Vietnam "closer together" on a draft peace settlement. But Lam said that there were still some problems requiring "clarification" before Saigon would accept the accord. 
Moscow-Communist Party leader Leonid I. Brezhnev asked the United States to remove "the obstacles created by the American side on the eve of signing" a Vietnamese cease-fire agreement. He chose a banquet in Moscow in honor of a visiting Bulgarian Party leader to address to the Nixon administration in the sharpest language to date by the Soviet leadership since the draft agreement was made between Hanoi and Washington. 
Charlotte Amalie, Virgin Islands-sen George McGovern, in one of his first interviews since losing the presidential election, vowed that he would "keep the heat on" President Nixon to end the Vietnam War, reduce military spending and reorder national priorities. He also pledged to try to prevent George Meany and others whom he called "wreckers" from gaining a dominant role in the Democratic party. 
Washington--Moshe Dayan, Israel's defense minister, will hold to­level policy talks in Washington Tuesday in which he expected to press for new weapons and seek assurances of continued deliveries of jet fighters, well-placed administration officials said. 
an campu• taday 
4:30p.m. --seminar, studies of phosphorous­phytoplankton interactions, using sysTems method, dr. orrie Ioucks, galvin life science auditorium 
8: 
OOp.m.--lecture, general lewis hershey, what's right with america, galvin life acience auditorium 

8: 
oop.m.--lecture, human sexuality and the notre dame student: two viewpoints, dr. gerald giantonio and rev. david burrell, washington hall 


8:00p.m. and 10:00 p.m.--movie, shadow of a doubt, engineering auditorium 
8:00 and lO:OOp.m.--play, midsummer night's dream, Iafortune ballroom, $1.00 
8:15p.m. --concert, james schwabacher, tenor, memorial library auditorium 
9: JOp.m.--discussion, mary lynn broe, fisher hall basement 



Question of coex courses to be resolved soon 
by David Hust Staff Ht>portt>r 

Saint Mary's students deciding whPther or not to take classes at Notre Damt• next semester may be mcouraged by a statement that will probably be issued before the md of the week by University provost James T. Burtchaell and Saint Mary's College president l<:dward HPnry, reports SMC's William Hickey, vice president for :wadPmic affairs. 
Dr. Hickey expects the question of SMC students enrolling in University classes to be resolved hv th<' pr{d of the week. 
·Presently, any St. Mary's st udmt who ·.vishes to puruse her studiPs in part a. Notre Dame must pay. ovPr and dbove her SMC 
I 
r 
I 
Five ND students 
r I 
r 
injured in crash 
r by J. Patrick Boyle Starr Reportt>r
'~ 
~ Five students, in a car traveling 
~ "at pxcessive speeds" failed to nPgotiat<' a curve on Douglas Hoad. skidding out of control, hitting a cement post on one side of th<' road. sliding across Douglas and digging up a tree on the other side. Th<' driver, pinned behind the wh<'<'l. was hospitalized. Injuries to th<' other students were minor, and th<' accident resulted in ex­tmsive damage to the automobile. 
A brPak-in occured at the Golf Maintenance Building Saturday night. A quick inventory revealed that nothing was missing, and Campus SPcurity feels that the thievl's were apparently looking for something specific, but couldn't find it. Everything was left untouched. 
Vandalism struck the campus PlsPwhPre early Saturday in Grace Tow<'r. where a trash can was thrown through the window of room 4:l0. 
Elsewhere, three people refused to stop their cars by the security booths that mark the entrances to th(• campus, and drove through the wooden gates. Jerry McGlynn, security officer, feels this is, "A real stupid and expensive thing to do. The people who try it never get \'ery far, and then there is the bother and cost of having to install a nl'w gate." 
There were three minor "fender bt•nder's" on campus this WPI'kend. The damage was only minor, and there were no injuries. 
The Observer is published dally during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the l'niversily of Notre Dame and 
51. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchesed for sa per semester I 14 per year) from the Observer, l'ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
tuition. University tuition costs \\'as "wide-open"--students at amounting to $100 per semester Notre Dame and Saint Mary's crPdit hour. 
could attend classes at either in­
Thus. any SMC student taking a stitution and pay only their regular n•gular three-hour course for two tuition. semPsters would owe the 
In the tumultous aftermath of University $600 if she took her th<' "unmerger," the present dasses ai Notre Dame. policy was arrived at by the This policy is new this semester University and Saint Mary's. 
to ND-SMC. During the 1971-72 "Thl' issue will most likely be school term. when both schools successfully or unsuccessfully wPr<' headed toward what seemed 
rl'solved this week," said Hickey. to bt> an imminent merger, policy "This present policy will either 
rPmain in dfect next semester, or th<'r<' will be a change." 
MPP!ings have been held over thP past few weeks by a group compos<'d of SMC representatives llmry. Hickey and assistant to the pn•sidPnt John Hof, and Notre DamP r<'presentatives Fr. Burt­chaell and president Theodore IIPsburgh. Hickey believes the issue will have to be settled very soon to meet deadlines and other rPquiremPnts concerning rPgistration for next semester's courses. 
In any case, Hickey feels fairly c<•rtain that provost Burtchaell and SMC president Henry will mak<' thPir statemmt either way this W<'<'k. 
"Wp'n• working towards a program that will be a lot more n•alistic than our present set-up," said Hickey. "a program in which ('ach school recognizes the in­dPpPndPnce of the other." 

THIS WINTER RECESS, TWA HAS THE BEST WAYS TO DO EUROPE YOUR OWN WAY. 
TWA. IF YOU W~~NT GREAT CITY AND SKI PACKAGES. 
Cities like London, Paris, Rome and Amsterdam. (Only with TWA can you leave when you w~nt.) For exa~ple, ~oronly $50.00 plus airfare, you can get 7 days in London. Includmg a room With pnvate bath, breakfast, four tickets to the London theatre free admission to six discos and much more. ' 
Or, there are our Great Ski Packages to places like St. Moritz, Zermatt and Innsbruck. Like for only $68.00 plus airfare, you can get 7 days at St. Moritz. Including chalet accommodations, breakfasts, transfers, taxes and tips. 
TWA. IF YOU WANT TO GO IT ALONE. 
Only TWA gives you Stutel pass.* A coupon booklet that gets you a room and Continental breakfast in a guesthouse or student hotel in any of 52 cities for only $4.30 a night, no reservations needed. Plus tickets good for meals, concerts, bullfights and much more. 
TWA. FOR THE ONLY FREE BONUSES WORTH OVER $40.00. 
Fly to London or Paris on TWA (whether on a tour or on your own), and we'll give you a coupon booklet worth over $40.00 of freebees. A free membership and drink at an uin" London club, free motorcycle rental in Paris and on and on. Plus hundreds of dollars worth ofgreat discounts. 
TWA. FOR THE ONLY FREE CREDIT CARD AT AGE 18. 
It's called our Getaway* Card. With it you can charge airfare, TW.Ns Great City and Ski Packages, Stutelpass, meals and much more in Europe. 
For more information, including TWI\.s free Winter Recess Brochure, stop at any TWA counter or see your travel agent. 

*Stutelpass and Getaway are service marks owned exclusively by TWA. 
Tuesday, November 14, 1972 the observer 
3 

Senior LrallSfer women to be issued guidelines 
by tum Thl'rese Darin 
<;ampus Nl'ws Editor 
After nearly a year's delay, the University of Notre Dame will issue very soon a statement con­



·..a 
taining guidelines for 80 St. Mary's College seniors who will receive d<'grees from the University in Mav. 
J{pportedly the statement in­dudPs information on com­mPncement, tuition, degree Pligibility, and academic n•gulations for the senior women majoring in American Studies, Psyehology, Government, Art llistory and Modern Languages. 
Written by Rev. Ferdinand Brown. university associate provost. and Dr. William Hickey, eoliPge academic vice-president, 1hP guidelines are the first dPfinitive information the women have received since they became pseudo-Notre Dame students last spring. 
In the document the only point still disputed is the section on graduation honors. Represen­latives for the university eontend that women will rec~ive academic rPcognition according to Notre DamP's honor system. If applied to St. Mary's seniors, the regulation would mean only eourses taken at the university, no 


SMC eourses, would count in grade point averages. 
St. Mary's spokesmen, however, twli<'ve implementation of this rule eould present problems for some smiors, who have taken much f<•w<'r than the usual 60 resident hours needed for Notre Dame dPgrees. Determination of academic honors using the Notre DamP eriteria could result in "non­rPprPsPntative determination" of 
honors. according to SMC n•prPsentatives. 
Although the statement repor­t<•dlv does not mention number of hours nPeded for graduation or whPthPr the women are eligible to 
CoD1pleted student directories will be on cantpus by Nov. 24 
by Hill McGi111n Starr Reporter 

The long-anticipated completed student directories won't be available to Notre Dame students for several weeks. Mr. Dick­mPver. President of Promotional F:niPrprises of Indianapolis, has promised that his publishing eompany will have the revised and fully eompleted student directories delivered to the campus by Nowmber 24. 
ln order to aid the students during the interim, Student Union President Jim Scheider has decided to distribute the defective directoreis this week. These directories lack student campus addresses. The student Union DirPctory also stated that a special supplement prepared by his organization will be distributed along with the defective direc­tories. This special supplement will contain the addresses and tPlPphone numbers of students at St. Mary's. 
Last week the defective student directories arrived on campus within the time limit specified by the University contract. Un­fortunately, campus addresses wPre omitted by the publisher. Dil·kmeyer admitted the com­pany's l:ault. 
The publisher's errors were also Pxplained by Mr. Joseph O'Brien, Director of Personnel at Notre Dame. He stated that the University submitted a computer :ape listing all the necessary student information, including local addresses, to the publisher. The publishing company reprogrammed this tape in order to eonvert it to printable form. Unoortunately, their programmer 

Burrell, Giantanio discuss human sexuality tonight 
Fr. David Burrell C.S.C. and Dr. (;Prald Giantonio will speak on human sexuality at Notre Dame :onight in Washington Hall at 8 
p.m. This will initiate a general program sponsored by the Notre DamP Campus Ministry. 
Fr. Thomas McNally described :his program as a spin off of the 1\lastPrs and Johnson lecture. Tonight's speakers will discuss sexuality in a Christian light and JWrtain more to the situation here at Notre Dame. 
Last Spring the Campus l\1inistry laid the plans of this program with co-education being :he primary reason. It also felt :hat sexuality was one area tha• hadn't been ·dealt with recently. 
A program was decided on, not ('Onsisting not only of tonight's }('ctun• but including other func­tions as wdl. There are also plans to have panels of married couples Yisit various halls and discuss topics such as marriage. 

s H u L A 'S 
PSYCHED PIGSKIN PEOPLE PRESENT PLEASING 
PERFORMANCES PROUDLY PREVIEWING PITT PRIOR TO PA.RSEGIAN'S PROLIFIC 
H H 
u u
PROGRAMMED POUNDING 

WHERE AT 
L 

' v¥te C/u~
• A
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD t'IILES, _MICHIGAN 49120 .Phon.e 683·4~50 
' 

s H IU L A 'SI 
,i. 
A 

omitted the tape sections that ineluded campus addresses. He did. however, include the listings for off-campus addresses. 
O'Brien was surprised by this aetion since the University had highlighted the hall information part of the student directory. 
O'Brien stated that the University informed Promotional Enterprises of Indianapolis that the first edition was not acceptable since it was not a complete directory. The publishing com­pany was obligated by contract to produce an acceptable copy. 
The company is now preparing 
10.000 copies of the directory which will include the necessary ruvisions. The Director of Per­sonnel further explained that the llniversity at present has no agreement to provide any ad­ditional payments to the publisher for the production of the revised directory. 
receive Notre Dame academic awards, it does stipulate: 
-lhese 80 students will receive only a Notre Dame degree (instead of a joint degree of St. Mary's diplomal; 
-thl'y will participate in only Notre Dame's commencement, but may take part in every official SMC graduation activity except :he eollege's graduation; 
-bPfore graduation in May, these students will become Notre Dame students by transferring officially to the university from the college; and 
-St. Mary's will pay diploma fees :o Notre Dame for the 80 women. Money will come from graduation fpes paid by the women to the <·ollege earlier this year. 
Questioned  on  how these  
students  will  transfer  to  Notre  
Dame.  Dr.  Hickey  replied  

~·esterday afternoon, "In the first week of May, they will officially go through the motions of officially :ransferring to Notre Dame. It would be too confusing to award Notre Dame degrees to St. Mary's students." 
Fr. Rrown. the other author of th<' doeummt, Fr. Burtchaell and Assistant Provost William Burke wPre unavailable for comment. 
Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant to the Provost, would only acknowledge "there's something in the process.. right now it is on Fr. Brown's desk." 
Sister Miriam confirmed since Notre Dame is granting the degree. it will establish the degree rPquirements. Earlier this year, St. Mary's administrators had stipulated that the seniors rPceiving their degrees from Notre Dame. under tuition plan "D" 
<major courses at Notre Dame, all 
electives at St. Mary's,) would 
fulfill St. Mary's requirements for 
a degree. 
Aecording to St. Mary's ad­ministrators, seniors would fulfill rPquirements for Notre Dame majors. specific St. Mary's class rPquiremPnts for a degree and ('Omplete the 128 class hours tweded for SMC graduation. Notre DamP Arts and Letters degree randidates only need 120 hours for graduation. 
Last month Fr. Burtchaell n•marked in a private con­n•rsation that the SMC seniors graduating from Notre Dame only needed 120hours to graduate. This n•gulation has not formally ap­pPared in any document yet. 
SMC registrar Donald Rosenthal n•ported that after first semester grades are recorded on the tran­seripts of the 80 women, thl'y will tw sent to Notre Dame's registrar to be re-set as Notre Dame tran­seripts. 

Services Commission Presents 

· Chicago-London· Chicago 
$180--COMPLETE 
Leave May 21 Return June 8 
OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS, FACULTY & IM­MEDIATE FAMILY OF ND-SMC Sign-ups NOW 
Travel Bureau 12-1 
S. U. Ticket Office 

FIRST COME FIRST SERVE 
UMAN SEXUALITY 
and the NOTRE DAME STUDENT: 


two viewpoints

• 

Prof. G. Giantonio Rev. David Burrell Moderator: F. Giuffrida 
Tues. Nov.14 
8:00p.m. 

Washington Hall 
\ 
I .• 
i 


sponsored by 
a"' ; 
~\ 


campUS:\ministry 
~ 
·l 
·, 
-' 


j 
., 
l ~ 
1 
1 
~ 
1 1 1 1 
j 




Canservative





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
An Answer 
John Abowd 

Dan Thornton Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
NEWS: 283-1715 

to Soothsayers
EDITORIALS: 283-8661 Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler Executive Editor Advertising Manager
r 
r jim napier 
r Tuesday, November 14, 1972 
r 
' 
r r 



r The Fine Art of
r 
t 
~ 
r 
r r 

' r Being
r 
f 
The Student Life Council cast the first ray of hope yesterday that the important
~ 
decision concerning which dorm will be
r 
converted to a female residence might be 
~ made before Christmas. The Campus 
r Life Committee's report made the 
r decision contingent on the quota of in­
r coming female students. That passed the 
r buck squarely to the University Quota Committee.
r 
r Logically, the quota committee is going to have to make the first hard and fast decision. It's impossible to allocate physical facilities when the needed capacity is not known. At Wednesday's meeting, then, Dr. John Goldrick, director of admissions, and the remainder of the quota committee should let the rest of the university know how many new female students to expect. But since this is the committee's first meeting, it's doubtful that a final decision will be made. 
For now 
Where does that leave the rest of us now? The Campus Life Committee of the SLC has done its homework. The suggestion, though, certainly has no finality. That is the unfortunate element of the fine art of "being in committee." None of the committee's work and. 
daanesbury 
''fJ.P., 'THE 6.REIIT ~~P~ON AN/~'0 7HIIT
Ht{c;!!IEF,T 

l'lff/..P HMSHI'Jt., /£11#&P f!iOFII£ al GOOP 
611CK IN HIS CHIIIR. RI'IP 8./J. RNP HIS 
{A)ORK; 

O.RIIIN&O H/5 !1&t:R
:;:.ONKER
,t?£TVI!JITO 

CRI'I IJEFC¥?£ CRVSH/NGfOOTlii'JU. HRRR~fK'E 
•1n Committee 
..-­

consequently none of the SLC's work can 
be completed until the rest of the com­
mittees involved get on the stick. 
At the least, the residents of the north 
quad have been formally served notice 
that two of the quad's dorms will 
probably be converted. This should come 
as absolutely no surprise. Unfortunately, 
all the residents of St. Ed's, Cavanaugh, 
Farley, Breen-Phillips, and Zahm must 
still worry about whose rooms are going 
to harbor next year's female students.. 
It's impossible to argue that the anxiety 
of any of these students could be reduced 
by any further extensions of the decision.. 
It is equally unlikely that the residents oJ[ 
Cavanaugh, and St. Ed's would worry 
any more if the selection of their dorms 
was finalized. 

Next step 
It's time for a little prudent haste. This means that all concerned students should make optimum use of the November 20 open SLC meeting to let the council know that there is some urgency surrounding the decision. The Monday before~ Thanksgiving is not known as a par.. ticularly good time for student activism. Nonetheless, time is running out--make the most of every opportunity. 
John Abowd 


IJarry lrudeau 
"'JCU-1'1Ff', B./?.,' I I'JSKED, 
"'_r UJII£ 

'UJHIIT IS IT 1'1801/T RXJT­
JJREAKING 1£/11/5, ' 

MU. THIIT Y()() 1-01/E SO 
flEPt-IEO THE

HIJCH THI1T YO(.) WOIJt.P 
/1Ua5EP HfffifiW

l?fm.r<N TO THe 6.RtJEtiN6 
/}C//V6.• , 
/<OII'TWeS RNO HOI/5 OF 
.:£ OllERHTr 
.r've-6lff -ro
AlliS 7W!PP8'0 IN 11 
COT C¥JT THC

Nt!JIIIIRII 81/S S171TION, KOOt.-11/P
C'/SCIISSIN6 Clll/l.­
BEFtAecR/6117'5 MTH 
pC{)...

M..9Rit' SPITZ.(/ 
I I?. 
Judg~g from the editorials and the majority of opinion columns appearmg on these pages as well as the bitter caterwauling erupting from McGvoern party headquarters last week, the recent elections results appear to have sentenced the United States to four more years of immorality. Sixty per cent of the American electorate has seemingly opted for the continuation of governmental corruption and Machiavellian values, over the reinstatement of righteous ethics embodied in the person of George McGovern. America has shunned a vision of Camelot for a state clearly unsuitable for those who believe in what used to be this nation's ideals. 
The Question is What llappt'nl•d'! 
How could over forty-five million people chose vice over virtue? Unless one questions the basic moral fiber of the American people, the answer is blatantly obvious. Most individuals did not interpret the campaign as a choice between corruption and integrity. 
Perhaps those that have predicted moral catastrophe should en­deavour to understand the reasoning behind the votes of these forty­five million people. Americans did not believe Richard Nixon to be a war monger, a hater of peace, who maliciouslyconnivedto prolong the Vietnamese War because of some well concealed, inner desire. Nor either did blue collar workers heed McGovernic claims tht the main goal of the President's wage and price controls was to sacrifice labor in an effort to help big business set record profits. The American voters found such concepts too irrational for a master politicial like Richard Nixon to endorse. 
In the finest tradition of theAmerican creed of innocent until proven guilty, the majority of the elect"·ate declined to smear the President with labels of Warren Harding. Despite the efforts of Chief McGovern Party Justice Lawrence O'Brien, the electorate decided not to indict the President in this election on the basis of a lack of convicting evidence. 
A Silent Majority Decision 
Despite George McGovern's morbid portraits of Richard Nixon, the bulk of the voting populace interpreted the campaign as a choice between the fundamentally sound America they know now and a radically revamped America with such priorities as increased Federal expenditures, pseudo-isolationism, and a reallignment of the nation's wealth via the Robin Hood method. 
The Real Question of 1972 
The real question of 1972 was posed best by Hubert Humphrey in the California primary debates, when he challenged Californians and all Americans, to decide whether they wanted the type of President whose concepts of government included advocatin.g the creation of a federal dole in order to give every man one thousand dollars. The former Vice President might just as well have added in his questioning of America, if the people of the United States have confidence in a man who would strip the nation's armed forces, grant virtually un­conditional amnesty to those who chose not to serve in the military, and who would almost undoubtedly spend billions more than the present federal budget thus leading to increased taxation. 
15 1\lillion Answers 

The American people answered Hubert Humphrey's question five months after he first posed it in California. Forty-five million Americans said they did not wish to live in George McGovern's home. 
the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Ann therese Darin Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Asst. Ad Manager: Patti Strobel l:'usiness Secretary: Ceil Popovich Subscriptions Manager: Art Ferranti Production Manager: Joe Wilkowski Circulation: John Woods 
Nigth Editor: Kathy Schwille Asst Night Editor: Robert Baker Layout: Jack Frischkorn Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr 
Pictures: Jerome dawntreader: mark j. niederkorn 
Editorials printed in The Observer 
reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf 
of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 

-----------------.. 

I 
Tuesday, November 14, 1972 5 
~ 

Explo '72: A meeting of teachers ... 
·.. .· ·..·· :-.·. -:·. :: 

.· · i.The~~ne: DaUa$ 1 TeXas,duringtnew~kofJune 12 
· ttir<Rtgl£'17, ·~t.. ---. ··-_ . .'Th~ oocasil.m: .the Intenational S~dent Congress on -···· Evangeli$nl, Training for Spintit8,1 Explosion....:.Explo '72, a gathering of an e$ti,Qlated7Moo young people to ,diseuss an orgari1'ted way to spread the gospel of Jesus 
Christ. -· ... _· . The impact.: incredible: ·. 
~n the planning stages f'9~-over two Campus C~de for Christ-:~~angelistre ~..,,..,...,;,._ sponsored tts most. l.mpr~IVti 'ev«ri'':i· . 
''Delegates" rrom all states aml 
tries deseended . · · _ _ · · meetings, :eorl~t;tltatiOJrt; laughing and hnt~thttnl'ofi<' Dallas was stunmi!d~> young people mnlg,l€~ beliefs, a~l · · 
-.<·._ -•------< L ------_---_ .-•• ­
.. .. _
•n.·.... tne·.sp•r•t· 

Tuesday, November 14, 1972

the observer
6 





US notes appreciation of aid 

spokesman, John F. King, said at a Southern Airways technicians and King and other officials noted those who had to be hospitalized, by Tad Szulc briefing that the Department mcchar;~ics to fly into Havana to that the Cubans did cverything and offer facilities to the airline 
<C> 1!172 Nl'w York Times shared the airline's "appreciation make repairs to the hijacked possibleover the weekend to assist p('rsonncl. for the cooperation shown the aircraft which would permitt it to the safe landing of the crippled jet, 
Washington, Nov. 13--The State aircraft crew and passengers .bY' be returned to the United States." help the passengers, including Department went out of its way Cuban officials." , ' today to express the "ap­King said that Graydon· Hall, the preciation" of the United States to general manager of Southern 
ND Institute for Urban Studies
Cuban authorities for their Airways, had told Secretary of cooperation in handling the State William P, Rogers that W('ekend hijacking of a Southern "Cuban officials with whom the Airways jetliner. aircraft crew were dealing were 
nazned regional IFCO office 
In what other officials described most cooperative in preparing for 
as a deliberate and unusual the emergency landing, cordial to The Institute for Urban Studies million in grants has been made by disadvantaged communities. "friendly gesture" toward the passengers and crew, and of the University of Notre Dame, the Foundation, generating more In commenting on the invitation Havana. the State D.~partment's eoooperative in permitting has been designated as one of six than $20 million iri direct resources !<'ather ll('sburgh said " ....we are 
rcgional offices of the lnter­for self-hclp strategies. The pleased to work with IFCO, and ){('ligious Foundation for Com­Foundation is located in New York acecpt this new responsibility asBadin hit with snowballs munity Organization <IFCO>. The City. an mdorsement of the skills and appointment of Alfred Williams, The activities of the regional d('dieation of our Institute for llrban Studies staff associate, as office on the Notre Dame campus llrban Studies and an opportunity
A rash of snowball throwing in vandalism that took place tonight. 
director of IFCO's Midwest Region will focus initially on problems and to give real meaning to the on­the Badin Hall area last resulted the fact that several girls could was announced Saturday by the projects in the South Bend area, going commitment of thein four broken windows. Two of the have been seriously and per­cxecutive director, Rev. Lucius with the purpose of increasing the llniversity of Notre Dame to thewindows over the porch, one manently injured is inexcusable in Walker, New York, and Rev. skill. sophistication, and ef­tTPation of an open, just, and
downstairs and one window in a a university community," Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., fectiveness of the leadership of humane society.
wom('n's room were broken, ac­Magnotta said. 
president of Notre Dame. community development projects "IFCO's commitment to long('ording to Kim Magnotta, Badin Several Badin Hall residents had 
Thc Inter-Religious Foundation in this area. range strategies to develop strong 
Hall president. been standing behind one of the is a l'ive-year old black-controlled Several projects with which the communities has begun to proveThe snowballing began at nine windows that was broken at 11:15. 
national foundation with an out­ncw center will cooperate have itself. N('W money for social o'clock. The first windows were The last time the snowballer standing record of achievement in already been identified, including changc, a new kind of training forbroken at 11:15. The last windows attacked one man attempted to 
the funding and management of the Hansel Neighborhood Center t·ommunity leaders, and the were broke at 2: 15. hold the Badin hall door open for self-help community development and the Urban League Ex­unification ·or diverse forces have "We are really very upset at the the remainder of the group to 
projects in black, Chicano, Indian perimental School. b('cn the results of IFCO's for­lack of concern and atrocious cnter. 
and poor white communities In addition to its staff and m at ion and control by black 
a round the country. A total of $4-lcadership training activities, the Anwricans. Training Center will distribute a HPv. Walker added, "we bi-monthly IFCO newsletter, and \Wlcomc this as a new model of
LaFortune Renovation Committee to will host periodic public seminars moperation between an important 
on subjects of national and in­university and a significant human ternational relevance to the im­justice organization controlled by
begin study of architecture proposals 
provemmt and development of black people." 
It was decided to conduct the ('Xamined briefly at the meetingby Tom Drape survey among a sampling of the with the decision to look at themStaff Reporter 
student body and individual Hall with ideas for specific areas in Presidents are going to be con­mind. Most committee membersMeeting in Dean Ackerman's tacted to administer the survey. were impressed with mezzanineoffice last night, the Renovation The Economic Fraternity was to additions to the main room and the Committee for LaFortune finalized handle the survey originally. courtyardas a focal point in hopeful
the~ survey and began 
The finalized survey includes plans. After an evehtual decisionpreliminary study of sophomore queries as to the present for plans for specific areas of thearchitect proposals. 
student use of LaFortune, student center, the suggested ideas Hope for immediate action was suggestions for improvements in will be forwarded to the Seniorexpressed to eliminate Center fees, recreational facilities, and the architectual students.
change the music programs, and earlier possibilities of a bar and co­The committee further agreed to remain open for 24 hours. If such a op stores. The question as to the display the plans in the main lobby change in hours is found feasible, need of a student center at Notre of LaFortune.
Co-chairman Jim McDermott said Dallfl>" is also raised.
hopefully it will become effective 
The sophomore floor plans
between Thanksgiving anc_l 
submitted were discussed and
Christmas. 

Earn $100 a month and a Marine Corps commission through the Platoon Leaders Class. 
Eligible college men The PLC also offers a . All PLC leadership 
can earn $1 00 a month few good men the training takes place each month of the chance to learn to fly during the summer regular school year. It's free. The Corps pays when it can't interfere 
the entire cost of with your college career. 
like a $900 annual 

scholarship. civilian flight instruction Upon graduation 
...worth about $800. PLC members are commissioned Second Ueutenants. 

The Marines 
are looking for 
afew good men. 
"DINING HALLS" 
NOON & EVENING MEALS 


NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
presents 

SUMMER AND SMOKE 
Tennessee William's beautifully fragile drama of frustrated love 
Washington Hall Notre Dame campus Nov. 10, 11, 16, 17, 18at8:30pm Students $·1 jQ Phone Reservations 284-4176 

Tuesday, November 14, 1972 
the observer 
7 


ND Cashier no longer to service SMC students 
by Mary Janca  DamP students bounce as do those  
.Starr Heporter  from St. Mary's, he believes.  In  
n•gard to those ND checks that fail  
to  dear. Howard stated that the  
cl<•rical  work  involved  is  much  
As  of  the  beginning  of  Sep­ pasiPr.  
t1•mtwr.  Saint  Mary's  College  "If, after redepositing the check  

studmtsw<•re no longer able to {'ash one<' or twice, the money could not 
cheeks at the Notre Dame Cashier's Office, according to II Pad Teller. Jim Howard. 
lloward requested that SMC students b!' presently banned from cashing checks there, but the final <h·ision came from Comptroller Dr. Hit·hard Lvnch. Howard ex­press1•d the desire that this policy n•main in effect. 
II<• strPssed that this was done in th1• past as a eourtesy, but was not dropped as a result of the un­sUC{'!•ssful merger. When asked 
whv the service was discon­:inu~d. Howard stated, "because WI' have no recourse, actually. Th<•y lSMC students) bounce ch<•eks and I have a horrible time trying to <'ollect on them." 
Not as many checks of Notre 
Mon. Nov. 20th, call 3377.
St. Mary'!; 24 hour lobbies to be Desperately need 4-6 general admission Miami game tix. Call · Dennis 1049. 
TYPISTS needed to volunteer their help during the Red Cross
delayed for reasons of security 

by Mary Egan siarr Heporter 

The dormitories at St. Mary's do not have 24 hour open lobbies as of 1·('( because more security is iwPded at Regina and LeMans llalls. 
I .orks are needed for "one door in Lt>Mans and one or two doors in H<'gin<t." stated Mitzy Tracy, the llall Life Commissioner. "They're supposed to be in by this week. Whm they come in, 24 hour open lobbies will go into effect." 
In H<•gina. only "the main lobby will be open when the locks come in.'' The South lounge can not be opened until' it is equipped with spPcial doors which can close off the !'nd of the lounge from n•sidents' upstairs. 
"I haven't been able to check on 
its progress." stated Tracy, in 
referpnce to these doors. "When 
tht' South lounge is ready with 
th<•se doors. that will be open." 
The South lounge and the lobby me ":he most that will be opened up. Tht• North lounge will never be open 24 hours," stated Tracy. 
Tracy feels that there is 1110 n•ason · to open the lobbies in MeC'andless and Holy Cross, although they are ready, because it would only be a difference of a few days bPfore ·Regina and LeMans :1n• ready. 
"( dm1't think we're slowing MeCandless and Holy Cross down. ThP locks are expected in this week ;md it won't take more than a day :o install them," Tracy said. She feels that opening all the lobbies at once also "makes it easier for security." 
Havi'ng open lobbies "was passed experimentally by the Student Affairs Council. It will foe !'valuated at the Board of Regents mPeting in January," Tracy ad­ded. 
Mrs. Elizabeth Dose, Mrs. Burke. and Sr. Bettina, the respective hall directors of McCandless, Regina, and Holy 
in concert 
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 30 
7:30pm Tickets: $4.50 (advance, $5.00 (door) 
Available at Morris Civic Bo>c Office and Pandora's or call 8.253. 
MORRIS CIVI<: AUDITORIUM 
219 N. Michigan Ave. Downtown South Bend 232-6954 

tl(' n•covered. it was just a matter of aecounting to pass it off on the bov's n•cord." he explained. 
ilow<•ver. in order to rectify a bounced check from a St. Mary's student. Howard explained that he first had to notify the Dean of Studmts. to receive the student's phone number and address, and th<'n attempt to get in touch with th<•m. This process, he said, was ''n•ry !imP-consuming" and in som<' eases. useless, as he was not abh• to reach the student involved. 
"In fact." he declared, "I have somP right now that I never have h!'!'n able to locate. I've more or h·ss given up on them." In cases lik1• th1•se. he continued, the loss 11ould tw absorbed by the Cashier's ( lffiel'. 
Cross. are all· in favor of open lobbies. The hall director of L<'Mans was unavailable for comment. but the assistant din'etor. Mrs. Kagel, spoke quite favorablv of them. 
Mrs. Dose feels that all the dorms should open .at once in fairness to the girls. Sr. Bettina 
For Sole Sisters. 

At the beginning of the semester, th<'S<• things. This makes it easier I, bv the Cashier's Office. 
a few students from St. Mary's had on us. because then we can be on s:·. Mary's College itself waseashed checks at the office, guard." 
.., <'ry cooperative" in attemptingbecause. said Howard, "not all the 

S<•v<'ral of the remaining 
to locate the students, statedpermanent ID's were ready, so we 

houm·pd SMC student checks were 
lloward. but "won't assumeeashed checks on the tem­

eash<'d for the maximum amount 
finandal r<'sponsibility" for theporariPs." Therefore, within this of $200, the limit set last January had eheeks.

:imP period, some checks from SMC that wpre allowed to be eashed. bounced. "But when the girls' ID's came out, and we could 
CLASSIFIED ADS
distinguish between a St. Mary's girl and a Notre Dame girl," he <·xplaim•d. "we just turned those 
from St. Marv's down." 
lloward reported that not very many Notre Dame girls' checks ha\'(' bounced thus far, but that "it's so hard to tell, because t hen• 's so few of them." 
Another area of weakness with St. Mary's students developed when. according to Howard, "they would lose, or have their ID's s:olPn. and W<' would be cashing forg('d checks. They didn't seem like th<'Y eared to let us know about that. ~-hen:•as the Notre Dame stud<•nts were very good about 
WANTED 
Need 4 Miami general admission tickets. Call Jim 233~5629. 
Need 4 G.A. tix lor Miami. Call 1992. 
Need 4 Gen Ad tix to Miami, call 6701. 
4 Miami G.A. tix: ride home to Cleveland: John 8786. 
Need riders to Minneapolis on 

Blow cool fashion vibes in the Bump-toed 
Can leave Tues. 21 or Wed. 22. Will pay. Please. Call Tom 6160. 
saddle oxford by PERSONALITY. A study in 
Need ride to Pittsburgh for two, November 19. Call 4104.
shine and suede, and color combinations to 
please oxford scholars. 

Desperately need ride to N.Y.C. or vicinity. Leave Nov. 17. Will share expenses. Call 287-6010.
Personalit}: Wanted: ride to Memphis. Can leave late Monday or Tuesday. Call Art, 1502.
Personality Shoes Are Available at: Shoeland, 
Two need Thanksgiving ride to St. Louis. Dennis 1548.
U.S. 31 North & U.S. 31 South, South Bend, Indiana Shoeland, La Porte, Indiana & Portage, Indiana 
Wanted Ride: to Boston or anywhere in Vermont on either
Paul's Shoe Store 116 West Plymouth, Bremen, Indiana 
Friday or Saturday Nov. 17 or 18. Will help share expenses. Call
Swearingens Shoe Store, 
234~4547 after 7:30 P.M.
208 North Michigan, Plymouth, Indiana 
Blood Drive Nov. 30and Dec. 1. 
Please call Pete, 3412.
said that she understands "the 
r('ason behind holding all the halls 
Anyone willing to swap two $5.50
back for one opening, but I 
YES tix lor two bleacher tix (sec.
probably would prefer to go ahead 
112) plus $6, please call 7053. 
Mike.

with it as each is ready." 
SomP students at SMC do not 
Desperate! y need $5.50 tickets for
s(•em to mind having all the dorms 
YES. Will pay top dollar. Call 
John at 6891.
opPn at once, but others are im­
patient. Need two G.A. tickets to Miami game. Will pay any reasonable price. Call Pat 1807. 
Typing · all types, call Carol 259­2555. 
RIDES WANTED 
Ride needed to Syracuse Binghamton ~ Scranton area tor Thanksgiving. Call Dan . 3702. 
Ride needed to Kansas City at Thanksgiving · George 7861. 
Need rides at Thanksgiving to 
D.C. area lor 3 girls. Will share expenses. Marianne 4197. 
Girl desires ride to Peoria, Illinois, Sunday Nov. 19. Call 6865. 
Desperately need ride West for Thanksgiving. (to NM). Can leave 17th. Share expenses. George 7965. 
Need Thanksgiving ride to Buffalo will share expenses & driving, call Mark 1782. 
Need Thanksgiving ride to N.J. leave Nov. 19. Drake 8427. 
Need ride east. Destination Boston. Leave Nov. 17, 8906. 
Need ride to Princeton, New Jersey for thanksgiving. Phily or vicinity. Will pay, call Tom 7852. 
Need ride to O'Hare Friday Nov. 
17. Call Joe at 7471 or 232-5633. 
Need ride to Cleveland on November 22. Call 4679. 
Need ride lor one to Milwaukee. 1 can leave in the afternoon, Mon. 20 Nov. Call Paul 8276. 
Need Turkey ride to or near Omaha, Neb. Can leave night
Put on a new floovember 20. Will help pay ex~ penses. Call Chuck 1782.Personality 
Need ride east to New England. FOR SALE 
Super 8MM movie camera. Many extras. $85, Drake 8427. 
Amplg B-25 AMP 2-15 in. speakers. 250 watts, $300. Rich 3504. 
YES· 2on the floor, Jist price. call 234-6267, 7471. 
Attractive console Color TV . 19 in. $175.00. Call 272-.'>625. 
NOTICES 
Europe  ·  Christmas  Break,  
Dec.  27  Jan.  14.  NY­ 
Luxembourg-NY  · only  $165  tor  
info call  1879 or  1049.  

HELP the helpless unborn, with time, money, or both. Right-to (ile, Inc. 233-4295. 
RUMOR · Well known F.Z. and 
M.D. will play at CJF in April. 
Cleveland Club Thanksgiving Busse5 Leave Tues. night and Wed. at~ ternoon. Call Gary 1774. 
Attention N D students! Need money lor Than ksg iving vacation·? Borrow from Morrissey Loan Fund 11:15-12:15 Monday Friday. Basement of La Fortune. 
Youngstown Club. there will be a meeting Monday nite · usual time at the circle. 
SMC Sophomo~tes who didn't receive, fill out; or return seJf. responsible hours questionaire, please contact Denise 4825 or Kay 4819. 
Organizational meeling and work session Sunday Nov. 19 3:00 pm lor anyone interested in being a ski instructor at Royal Valley Ski Resort. N. Main Street. Buchanan, Michigan. Phone 616­
659~3847. 
TICKETS  FOR  SALE:  
BROWNSVILLE  STATION  
RASPBERRIES  CONCERT,  
NOVEMBER  22,  CHEECH  &  

CHONG CONCERT, NOVEM­BER 30. MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM. CALL 8253. 
Noise makers lor sale, send name 
and telephone number to Box 685, N D Indiana 46556. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Lost: Woman's ring in Gym L of Convo Thursday night, sen~ timental value, call 1067. 
Lost: red, tour-subject. spiral notebook containing English and Soc. notes. Must have, or will flunk. Call Kay: 4819. 
PERSONALS 
Where's Dave's little brother? 
Waiting M.T., Call Mark at 272­8189 or Gary at 8243. 
Many thanks to the "N D man" wilo kicked the door of my VW in Dl Friday nile . you piece of shit drunk. 
Words Ida 2da 3di1 4da 5da 1·10 .65 .9$ 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.15 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3. l5 3.9~ 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.4S 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41·45 3.15 4.z.o 5.90 1.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5•• 6.5_0 7.80 8.95 
r 

l 
1 
~ I 
..,.... 


8 the observer 



Morrlssey, Stanford ~~st IH u 
a :!fi-t!! llllSt>t victory over Dillon. right to represent the North Quad in the final~. 

But yesterday's battle belonged

by Stan llrankar 
totally to Morrissey, as final stats will attest. The Marauders ran forMorrissey and Stanford both yards compared a

puliPd upsets to reach the Interhall 105 to minus 
seven total rushing figure forfootball finals next weekend. The Dillon. Morrissey's Kirk MillerMarauders had to go into overtime completed seven of ten passes forb<>fore they downed defending 1!2 yards: the Big Red's Randychampion Dillon, 26-18, and Stasik hit two

Stanford pulled off some big plays on only of 14 at­
tempts for 45 yards, and was in-early to rout Breen­t<>rcepted three times.

Phillips, 20-6. The two teams will square off Sunday afternoon at 
A pair of big defensive plays mabled D11lon to stay close. TheI ::lo p.m. in the Stadium. 

first cam<> after Paul Breen's six-1\lm..-issl'y :w, Dillon II! 
yPard touchdown run had put the MaraudPrs ahead early and they 

ThP win avenged a pair of Wl'r<' driving again late in the first prPvious Marauder playoff half. On fourth down from the dl'fl'ats. Two years ago, the same Dillon :l2 with only seconds two dubs finished in a 0-0 deadlock rPmaining. Jack Kikata picked off aft<'r five periods, but Dillon was a deflected Miller aerial and raced awarded the triumph on the basis fill yards to pay dirt to tie the score. of mon• first downs. Last season Th<' Big Red then took the lead, thPy squarPd off in the finals at with Marc Brammer scooping up a cartiPr Field. and the Big Red bad pitch from Miller and going 48 again pn•vailed, taking a 20-12 yards for a 12-6 edge. ovPrtiml' verdict. Again Morrissey recovered
• fd ....................................................
JIm Dona sone:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:.:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-: 
The Irish Eye 
::===========::ND wins over all ---even officials 
It was cold and overcast Saturday afternoon in Falcon Stadium and most people in the capacity homecoming crowd sat with hunched shoulders and their hands shoved deep in their pockets. 
Down on the field, much the same sort of behavior was taking place. The officials were constantly reaching into their pockets while Irish coach Ara Parseghian stalked along the sidelines with his shoulders hunched. But neither the officials nor Parseghian were bothered by the weather. Referee Harvey Murdock and his crew let their hands slip into their pockets only long enough to whip out their penalty flags and Par­seghian shrugged his shoulders in disbelief at some of the many calls that were made against Notre Dame. 
The Irish were penalized a total of 82 yards and the violations cost them 60 additional yards in nullified gains just in the first half. It seemed as if every time Notre Dame racked up a sizeable gain, the officials picked up the football and trotted backwards with it. 
Not that the Falcons weren't caught committing an abundance of misdemeanors. The Air Force was penalized even more than the Irish, being assesed 95 yards, but most of their violations came in the second half and few were as costly as the Irish penalties. 
Hardly a series of downs passed that one club or another was called for an infraction of the rules. There were more flags flying in Falcon Stadium than at the United Nations building. 
"I've never been involved in a game where the officials dominated it so completely," Parseghian said. "You can call a penalty on almost every play in football if you interpret the rules strictly. A good official has to use his judgement." 
What sort of judgement the officials were using was a matter of great concern to the Irish, who were confused at some of the calls being made against them. Three times, Notre Dame blockers downfield were called for illegal use of the hands which cost the Irish a couple of long gainers. Willie Townsend was a twoo-time offender and Mike Creaney was nailed 
once. "Sure, they had the hands out a bit," Parseghian said, "but you can't block a man holding on to your jersey. That's what I mean about the of­ficials having to use judgement." "The team was frustrated when they came off the field," Parseghian continued. "They just couldn't understand some of the calls that were being made." 
Besides the questionable holding penalties, the officiating crew made at least one other unusual call and a first class blunder. The unusual call was made against Mike Creaneywhen he blocked a Falcon defender after. Townsend, the ball carrier, had been knocked out of bounds. 
C'r<>an<'y, who was ten yards away from Townsend, was told by the of­ficial. "You should have known he was going to be knocked out m bounds." 
Th<> blunder came when quarterback Tom Clements faked a handoff to halfback Eric Penick into the line and then tossed a pass to Townsend good for 35 yards. The play was called back, however, because one official thought that Penick had the football andblewhis whistle when he was tackled. Although the mistake was obviously the official's, the rules state that when such things happen, the play must betakenover again. 
_''I'm not intimating any dishonesty on the part of the officials," Par­seghian said, "but there issucha thing as incompetency and that's what ·took place on the field." 
Pars<•ghian wasn't displeased by everything that went on infron of him, however. Naturally, he was happy about his club's victory and he was especially pleas~ with the performance of his defensive unit. 
Notre Dame switched from its usual 4-4-3 defensive alignment for its meeting with Air Force because of the Falcons' vaunted passing game and because Navy had riddled the Irish pass defense for 17 first downs the Jlrevious weekend. Parseghian installed a 4-3-4 setup, utilizing a fourth defensive back instead offpur line~ackers Saturday and the results were most gratifying. Air Force,• which had passed for over 1400yardsin eight 
games, was limited to just ~passing yards. Falcon quarterback Rich Haynie completed only eight of 25 attempts and had four intercepted, three by Mike Townsend, who seems to 1have become the opposition's primary receiver in recent games. 
"The new defense worked very well, Parseghian said. "We like to defenseateam'sstrongunitandmakethemplay'lefthanded.'AirForce ran more often than we thought they would, but we contained them pretty well." 
And, while the defense was keeping the Falcons in check, the Irish offense picked up 386 total yards and tallied three touchdowns. Diminick and Huff ran for scores and Willie Townsend caught a pass in the end zone from Clements. Bob Thomas added three conversions and Notre Dame 
.......,yp its ~venthwin j.n eight games this year, something not even the officials could call back. 
though. going 65 yards on their next possession. A third down completion from Miller to Fran Finnegan put the ball at the-two, and fullback Joe Holzmer folllowed up by belting home for the score. 
A scoreless fourth quarter forced the special Interhall overtime rules to be put into effect. Each team received four downs from their opponents' 10 yard line-, and th<' first team to end a seriles of possessions with the lead wins. 
N<>ither squad converted on its first try. and both matched six­pointers in their next possessions. Tom LuetkemPyer tossed a 10-yard option aerial to split end John llargr<>ave for the Morrissey sc·on>, while Craig Tigh's six-yeard burst tallied for Dillon. 
Lut>tkcmPycr then converted on a big fourth' down play that gave th<' Marauders the win. The sophomore halfback swept right Pnd for a fourth down score from the one. Dillon tried to match it, 
but a pai~ of runs and .two Stasik
~.ncompletJOns put Mornssey m the iVJals. The Marauders twice hit the backs for losses, and broke up both of Stasik's final two attempts. Big Red Coach Mike Caulfield 
praised the Morrissey per­formance, but was quick to attack the Interhall referees. "Morrissey totally outplayed us," the second­After a fumble recovery by year Dillon field boss noted, "but defensive 'rnd John McClurethe officiating of Rich Hunter (an midway through the first period,N.D. grad who returned to help Packer fired a 35-yard scoringwith the finals) was outrageous, strike to dependable Mikeand I hope his incompetence will Pohlman for a 6-0 edge.
never be shown·on the field again." 
J<:arly in the second stanza, lin<>backer Bill Shanley returned
Stanford :w. 8rt'£"n-Pttillips I! 
an int<>rception 43 yards for a George Packer's passing and a touchdown. with Tommy Ryan fired-up defense gave Stanford the running for the coversion. 
ND sailors win Area C regatta 
The Notre Dame sailing team; In the event's "A" divisior., led by Will Donelan, won the ayea Notre Dame alternated skippers to 
"C" elimination regatta ·last give the team more experience. weekend in Chicago. The 'win Th<' Gaw brothers, George and qualifies the Irish crew for the Hobbie, took two firsts and two Timme Angsten Reg~tta, to be thirds in their races. Jon 
held over Thanksgiving weekend Markielski and AI constants then at the Chicago Yacht·Ciub. altt-rnated in the last four races, 
Donelan. who alternated Bruce l\lking a fifth and seventh-place Marek and Skip Reynolds as his finish each. crew, turned in a fine per­
Notre Dame finished the regatta formance, posting six first-place with a total of 42 points, four points 
finishes and two seconds in eight ahead of runner-up Indiana. races. 
Junior varsity icers rally, win 10-3 romp 
Following the example of their varsity counterparts the Notre Dame jayvee hockey team picked up a victory Saturday, defeating the Park Ridge Juvenile team 10-3. It was Notre Dame's five goal <'ffort in the third period that put the game out of reach for Park 
Ridge, who managed to keep the gam<> close in the first two periods. 
The Leprechauns were slow to get started, and as a result found themselves on the short end of a 2-0 score after only 2:43 in the first period. The Irish soon picked it up and Frosh Bill Guisti scored at 5:34 on a pass from Jim Augustine. 
Both defenses stiffened at this point and it wasn't until 13:23 that Park Ridge was able to score Jheir third and final goal. 
The Irish offense began to click when Rick Locke scored the second goal at 14:29 with an assist from Bill Whiteside. This was the first in a string of nine consecutive Irish tallies that broke the game 
wioe open. 
With only 8 seconds remaining in the period Dave Howe took a pass from Neil Ungar to score and give the Irish a 3-3 tie at the end of te first period. 
Park Ridge managed to skate right along with the Irish for at least the first half of the second period. Then at 9:09 Howe picked up his second score of the af­ternoon, and at 10:45 Jim Augustine registered his first score to give the baby Irish a 5-3 edge at the end of two periods. 
The third period was a field! day for Notre Dame and it began with only 50 seconds, one when Augustine scored his second goal and followed up at 8:37 with his 
Musuraca gets game ball 
It took a bit of doing to get Saturday's game ball home from the Air Force Academy but, thanks to some hustling by head manager Mike Busick, the Fighting Irish left Colorado Springs with it in tow. And Monday afternoon at practice, the ball was presented to senior linebacker Jim Musuraca in the dub's awards ceremony. 
Other 'players honored were Gary Diminick offensive player of the game, Mike Townsend, defensive player of the game, Jim Bulger, offensive prep team player of the week and John Mariana, dt'fensive prep team player of the wt-ek. In addition, Busick was given the "Irish" awared, presented on occasion during the season for special achievements. 
The Air Force managers were reluctant to hand over the game ball, traditionally given to the winning team, after Notre Dame's .Jim Musuraca21-7 victory over the Falcons last weekend but Busick convinced record by intercepting three them otherwise. passes against the Falcons, was 


Six players earned helmet stars, given three stars while Tim for outstanding plays, against the Rudnick, Kevin Nosbusch, Tim Air Force Academy. Mike Sullivan, Jim Stock andBobZanot Townsend, who tied a Notre Dame earned one apiece. 
Wisconsin placed third, followed by host school Northwestern. 

lnterhall hockey 
Anyone interested in playing intramural hockey should come to room :!14-226 in the Computing C<•nt<'r on Wednesday, November 15, at 8:30 p.m. 
There will be a one dollar entry f<'<' charged to each player, and ND-SMC girls interested in being t•m<>keepers are invited. 
Packer then struck again, unloading a 78-yard bomb to flanker Jim Slack just two plays into the second half. B-P managed a final p<>riod score, but it was too littl<' too late. 
"W<> w<>re really sharp on d<>f<>nsc," commented Packer, a junior from St. David's, Pa. "Our dd'msivc lin<> (McClure, Ryan, Dick Prill. Jimmy Segerson and StPv<' Gilmorel provided a great pass rush. and we're looking forward to n<>xt week." 

third tally of the afternoon. Augustine led the high powered Irish attack with a total of four goals and one assist. 
N<>il Ungar made his mark at I :30, followed again by Augustine who slapped in his fourth and final goal at 16:29. 
Bill Whiteside scored the tenth Irish goal at 18:56 capping an impressive offensive team display. 
Tom 'VIcCardy, Mike Thorpe and Dave Smith shared the goaltending r<>sponsibilities for the Irish combing for a total of 12 saves. 
The Irish defense held the Park Ridge team to 15 shots on goal while the Irish offense managed to get 58 shots at the oppositions net. 
The JV Irish are now 1-1 on the season with their next encounter scheduled for Nobember 24 and 25 against Hillsdale College at 3:00 in the ACC ice arena. 







