
Academic Reform: A special insert 
See ]XIge 5 

On The Inside 
SLC candidate forum ....pg 3 St. Mary's SAC passes 24-hour open lobbies ..... pg 13 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 35 Thursday, October 26, 1972 
Hesburgh vows co-ed increase 


Administration critical of faculty ideas 
by Ann Therese Darin 
Campus News Editor 
Notre Dame plans to increase the number of female students admitted to the university to a thousand as quickly as possible, announced Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., university president, last night. 
Speaking at his old student residence, Badin Hall, converted for women's use earlier this year, Fr. Hesburgh speculated that the action would be completed wihtin two years. The university anticipates, according to Fr. Hesburgh, that at least one-half of the coeds will major in the college of arts and letters. Currently A&L ranks as the largest college in the university with 2680 students. 
"The big problem gets down to the total number (of women)," Fr. Hesburgh noted. "When the girls start replacing the guys, then the crunch will be on." 
In accepting women for the '73-'74 academic year, the university president said, "We will try for a mix. We want to gradually enlarge the number of freshmen and cut down the number of transfer students. Those women transfer students were our biggest break this year. We wanted kids who knew the place. It's a juggling act, but we'll have it under control in a couple of years." 
Before the question session, Fr. Hesburgh, accompanied by hall directore Kathy Cerkanski and several hall residents, toured the women's rooms amid popping flashbulbs. "Things have gone even better than I had expected," he said. "This is about as male chavinist pig as you can imagine. But you girls are great!" Questions during the two hour session centered on university policies, Fr. Hesburgh's experiences in civil rights and education, and his philosophy on a Christian community. 

with a token of appreciation 
Following the visit, Badin residents presented him with a miniature paper "Badin Woman" t­shirt, a large Snoopy "welcome" card, and a steel-wire floral arrangement. "I've gone to a lot of halls, but I've never gotten anything like this before," he exclaimed. "It just proves that girls are different," he grinned looking at a sheet-cake decorated with grape vines and in­scribed "Welcome Back to Badin, Fr. Ted!" 
Because of another large number of women students to be admitted to Notre Dame next year, several Badin residents asked if they would be relocated in a larger dormitory. Reassuring them that they wouldn't be evicted from Badin, Fr. Hesburgh commented, "We put $150,000 into Walsh and Badin this year. I'd say you're pretty safe for a number of years ... well, for the immediate future at least." 
There are no immediate plans to build another dormitory' he added. "The problem first of all is that we were thinking in terms of St. Mary's. They have quite a bit of space not being used." Because the unification with neighboring St. Mary's College was called off, the University is still repaying loans on the $7 million Flanner­Grace Tower complex, Fr. Hesburgh predicts no new dormitories will be built. 
If the university had the funs, it could build a residence hall in less than two years since it would simply modify architectural plans for Flanner and Grace. "Yale is putting upa big dorm for coeds," he reported. "Someone handed them $15 million. If we had a Jock Whitney, we'd have one, too." 
During the question and answer session with ove.rixty Badin resident, a black sophomore woman questioned the university president on active recruitment for minority students. "We've told the admission office," the U.S. Civil Rights Commission chairman claimed, "that we want to keep increasing the number (of minority women l every year. This year we fell low on men, but there was a run on chicanos. Every chicano we offered a scholarship to took it." Several black male prospective students, he indicated turned down NVs. scholarships to at­tend other universities. 
Another student concentrated questions on women's caucus and a proposed birth control campus center, advocated by an Observer columnist in yesterday's newspaper. On women's caucus establishing rapport with university administrators, Fr. Hesburgh an­swered, "We're glad to hve it. We've got to assume that we're going to make a lot of mistakes. If something is being donw that is outrageous, say something. We don't want to make goofs." 
(continued on page 2) 

by 
Michael Baum 
Two administrative members of the Academic Council, Assitant Provost Dr. William Burke and Arts and Letters Dean Frederick Crosson, voiced some criticisms of the Faculty Senate's recom­mendations to the Council as ex­pressed by two faculty members Tuesday. 
In conversations reported in Wednesday's Observer, English department chairman Edward Vasta and Economics department chairman Dennis Dugan defended the "spirit" of the Senate's recommendations to the Academic Council, calling for the Council to be reduced to 40 members, in­cluding 6 voting student members. 
The Senate's recommendations would also have had faculty members outnumber ad­ministrators on the Council by 20 to 16. 
Both administrators denied Dugan's claim that the Academic Council's steering committee recommended that the student members of the Council be "non­voting." Crosson, who will present this section of the committee's recommendations to the Council, said that the committee merely brings it to the attention of the Council that a decision must be made on this issue. The status of student members on the Council is presently probationary. The trial period for the arrangement will end this year. According to Crosson, "The recommendation of the steering committee is going to be that the student members be full voting members." 
Dr. Burke commented, "I think that the student comments, recommendations and suggestions are very helpful. I wouldn't have them as consultants, I'd have them as voting members." 
In contrast to the Faculty Senate recommendations, the Council steering committee suggests a total membership of 29, three of whom would be students. Crosson does not feel that the increase of student representation to six members would have any wor­thwhile effect. Pointing out that the steering committee recom­mendation essentially reduces the overall size of the Council, while maintaining the same proportions among the three groups, Crosson said, "It is not clear to me that short of moving to some tripartite membership (each faction equally represented) that the addition of two or three more students is going to make a difference." 
Commenting on Dr. Dugan's suggestion that more than three students are needed to effectively participate, Crosson agreed that three was a small number, but, pointing out that faculty and ad­ministration both had only 13 representatives under the com­mittee's proposal, said, "When you consider how many people are being left out that have sat on the Council for years and year, 12 or 13 is a small number too." 
In contrast, Assistant Provost Burke feels that student representation should be set at either five or six positions. He believes it should be structured that one student representative comes from each of four colleges and either a graduate studies representative and a represen­tative from the Law School, or one student to represent both of these. 
"It would make good sense to me to have representatives of the four undergraduate schools and law and graduate or at least graduate student representatives," Bruke commented, "I would favor any representation where each school is represented. My system would suggest five, lhen." 
Both men denied the thesis, expressed by Vasta, that the faculty should have more representation on the Council that the administration-to counter what Vasta felt to be an ad­ministrator's advantage in voting caused by a tendency to "think and vote homogeneously," contrasted with the general disunity among faculty members. 
Commented Crosson, "The Faculty Senate proposal would, in effect, mean a placing of the majority vote in the hands of faculty. They would be in a position to outvote both students and ad­ministration." 
The Senate proposal set mem­bership at six students, 14 ad­ministrators, and 20 faculty members. Claiming that the administration 
Remarking "Mr. Vasta is saying did not vote as a bloc in his ex­that the administration tends to perience, "certainly not solidly," vote together and what we need is Crosson said, "There are certainly to get more faculty . voting tensions and differences between together," Crosson claimed that in the colleges. More often the fact voting does not tend to be split division lines on votes tends to between administration and 
(continued on page 2)

faculty. 
Late bulletin: War may end 

The United States and North Viet Nam have reportedly reached an agreement to end the Vietmtm War. 
According to United Press lnternationa reports early this morning (1 :00 a.l'b. South Bend time) North Vietnam radio broadcast the news Thursday (today). According to the report, North Viet Nam is ready to sign the agreemtn on Oct. 31 "despite U.S. dElaying tactics." 
The UPI dispatch q.Joted South Vietnamese Foreign Minister Tran Van Lam emphasizing "there will be no ceasefire before the U.S. elections." After several students heard the early bulletin on WLS and alerted the Observer, United Press International's Chicago Bureau was called to verify the story. Jim Smeadstead, a UPI teletyper, authenticated the information. 
Most of the major U.S. dailies are leading with this news today. In New York City, the New. York._'fimes, which did not send the story out on the wire which the Observer subscribes to, told the Observer that "everyone here is asleep ... we are using the UPI story as our lead today." The Assicoated Press <AP) is also running a version of the report, but UPI was first to report. No further details were available at presstime for the student newspaper (3 
a.m. Thursday). 


the observer Thursday, October 26, 1972 
warld 
briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Paris -A high ranking French source disclosed Wednesday that a wide measure of understanding on a cease-fire and a subsequent political settlement in Vietnam h_ad been re~ched .b~tween Henry A. Kissinger, President Nixon's National Security Adiviser, and Le Due Tho, the North Vietnamese "egotiator. 
Detroit-Sen. George McGovern declared that the United ~tates faces a "moral and constitutional crisis of unprecedented dimen­sions" because of what he called the "widespread abuse of power" by the Nixon administration. In a national televised address he described as the most important of his campaign, the Democratic nominee accused President Nixon of having catered to special interests, usurped Congressional authority and tried to undermine the political 
process. 

Washington -Though peace negotiations are still described as precarious, American officials in wWashington now believe that only a supreme act of folly in Saigon or Hanoi could prevent an Indochina cease-fire within the next few weeks, perhaps even before the Nov. 7 presidential election. 
Washington -In his fifth radio campaign speech, President Nixon promised to press for legislation that would provide tax credits for parents of children in non-public schools and end "arbitrary court­ordered busing of children out of their neighborhoods." He said that "the people themselves" deserve the greatest voice in deciding education policy. 
Washington -~n its first ~tt~mpt to halt the rising price of gasoline, the ~ederal. Pnce Comm!s~10n has begun an investigation of the se~vi_ce stat~on r~ntal P?hcies of a major oil company. The com­mission, which did not Identify the company, wants to find out if rentals based on the number of gallons sold by the station have amou_nted to a disguised and illegal increase in the wholesale price of 
gasohne. 
an campus taday 

3:30 exhibition, jack white, billiard and trick shot artist, Ia fortune ballroom 



Father Hesburgh speaks in Badin Hall 
(continued from page 1) 
Discussing a suggestion to establish a campus center similar to Planned Parenthood, the university president vetoed the idea. "I'm not terribly enthused about opening up a center," he remarked. "That is the horror approach to life. I can't. The ball game's over before you start. It's kind of a red herring! I'm not going to get excited because someone writes it in the Observer and I'm not going to get excited about what he says. I know how it can be-a slow day for news; some space to 
fill." 
By establishing a center on campus, Fr. Hesburgh believes the university would be condoning that morality. He believes the adults on campus can advise and refer students to suitable agencies in South Bend if the occasion arises. 
Other questions ranked from rumors about campus life to national personalities and world problems. 
The university does not have a private jet, Fr. Hesburgh said. Father added that he "sparingly" borrows the private jets of his friends, but mostly he relies on commercial airlines. Concerning his travel and committee ap­pointments, he remarked, "You get your money's worth out of me. I'm here over fifty percent of the time." 
Besides acting as Notre Dame president for his twenty-first year, J<'r. Hesburgh also heads the U.S. Civil Rights Commission, Over­seas Development Council (foreign aidl, and Ecumenical Institute. In 
English Leather. Especially ifyour roommate wean lipstick. 
If you're sharing your pad with a groovy gal who gives you English Leather®, you're well on your way to a liberal education. Maybe she's trying to educate you that English Leather's fresh, clean, honest smell gets to her. And cheap perfumy stuff turns her off. On the other hand, if you're not so lucky, maybe a little English Leather would help. It couldn't hurt. 
MEM Co., Inc., © 1972 

addition, he serves on the changed in the Church ...Ja_ck 
Rockefeller Foundation Board, Kennedy was very m­Chase Manhattan Bank Board of telligent ... Johnson in one way was Directors, and Carnegie. Com­a very striking fellow ..Eisenhower mission fo~ Higher EducatiOn. was a decent fellow and humble ...! didn't like Bobby Kennedy at all
He also refuted the rumor that he 
much, but I admired his
lives in a penthouse apartment in courage ... his wife Ethel's a dreamthe Memorial Library. "Fr. 
girl...and, of course, Martin Luther Burtchaell 's always sneaking up King and Mother Teresa in India." 
there making dinner ghough," he teased. Rev. James T. Burtchaell, Concerning Nixon, Fr. HesburghProvost, doubles as a gourmet lauded his Russia and Chinacook. "Seriously, we use the diplomacy, but depl?r.ed. thepenthouse to entertain trustees and President's record on CIVIl nghtsfor cocktail parties when someone and the Vietnamese War. "I don'twithin the university community want to knock him," he remarked. 
has been promoted. I've been Three years ago Fr. Hesbu~g~tempted to move over there. But, offered to resign from the Civilso far, I haven't. I live over the Rights Commission. "He <Nixon)garbage can in Corby," he said. 
called me a week later and asked me to stay. I have a feeling heSeveral of the women were in­regrets that decision," he said.
terested in his reactions to national figures, in particular President Richard M. Nixon. "Which one has Fr. Hesburgh's other remarks impressed me the most? Well, I concerned his philosophy of life knew the last four popes pretty and reminiscences of Badin Hall in 
well. The present pope has got a lot the post-War years. 
Administration critisizes 
(continued from page 1) faculty and administraton 
reside along college lines rather 
members vote pretty much in-'t==========================~
than faculty and administration. dependly.. I never thought of 
On probably 80 per cent of the myself as an administration man votes where there is a division they or faculty man, I thought of how tend to reflect these verticle lines the issue would affect the of interests within the University University." 
rather than horizontal faculty­University Provost Fr. James T. administration lines." Burtchaell, declined to comment Burke also denied that there was beyond the opinion that ad­a tendency to vote in blocs, saying, ministrative members on the "On the Council for twelve to .. Council did not have any ad­fourteen years, I've seen the vantage of homogeneity in voting. 
"You should look-at the world as a chance to do something about it. You didn't create it, but you can do something about it. Unless you dod something for other people, you're not going to have any satisfaction in life," he philosophized. 

ATTENTION HEADS 

Need Shaping Up? 

*Blunt Cuts *Precision Cuts ·*English Shags *Hair Reconditioning 

"Let Sue style your hair." 


We solve long hair problems I 
~~~,.~~~l~~~t Appo;ntmont 1637 L" 1 w
lnCO n ay W. Closed Mondays Phone 232.-6622 
"THE BEST 
OF 40ACRES 







POETRY" 

Brash, funny, subtle poetry by black, white and Puerto Rican young people 13 to 20 years of age. Selected from "40 Acres And AM ule," Harlem's youth newspaper. 
Mail to: 
HORIZON SIX 
P.O. Box 21, Manhattanville Station 
New York, N.Y. 10027 
Regular Price $3.75 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES $2.00 
(Please include school mailing address) 

The Observer is published.. de~ily during the college semester ex. cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556._ 
l 

---------------------------------. 
Thursday, October 26, 1972 the observer 
3 

Apathy mars SLC candidate forum 
"Kids don't understand what the SLC is, and they just don't care," stated candidate Diane McDonnell after no one showed up for the planned "Meet the Candidates" discussion in Badin Hall last night. 
The discussion was to give women students voting in today's Student Life Council elections an opportunity to hear the three run­off candidates and their positions on the issues. 
Candidate Maureen Lathers said, "When we came here, all we 
HPC .may 
A proposal to channel funds to the HPC was introduced at its meeting Tuesday night. According to Steve Jeselneck, Executive Coordinator of the HPC, the alternative form of funding would be "a direct subsidy from the­student activity fee." 
The subsidy would cover the 
expenses of An Tostal and include 
a hall subsidy, to be distributed on 

a per student basis. This fund, which would be possible enactment. 
Questionnaire to be sent 

COUP questions students 
by David Rust Staff Reporter 

Students will get their chance to register grievances against student-run profit businesses on a questionaire to be distributed through the mail Wednesday evening, decided the new Com­mittee On Unorthodox Privateering <C.O.U.P.) at its first m::~;,,,., tqst night. 
Gathered in the student givern­ment cabinet offices for an hour session. the committee, coor­dinated bv Mike Hess and Dave Fromm. hammered out the shape of the forthcoming questionnaire which will be C.O.U .P .'s first of­ficial act since its inception two days ago. 
The one-sheet mimeographed questiOnnaire will be headed by an introductory paragraph and will contain in its body a list of ten areas suggested by committee memhers for their frequency in recurring among student com­plaints. 
These include hall food sales, concessions. donut sales, hall taxes. hot dog stands, solicitations, movie prices. stereo sales, and record sales. Other subject titles are not yer available for read was that this was tne year that the SLC could really become something." 
"But it seems that the only publicity the SLC gets is in the editorials of the Observer, although there was a small story on page two the day before the primaries," complained Janet Waltman, another candidate. 
Lathers, a sophomore transfer student from Michigan State, was quite vehement about the issue of a woman being seated on the SLC as a "token" gesture. "The seat is not token," she said, "no wav. It is token only in that it is giving the women an advantage. We are getting a special chance to make our minority heard. I am going in as a woman, and I'm not going to be afraid to make myself heard as a women." 
McDonnell agreed, saying, "The seat is token only in the sense that the 325 women here are." 
One woman who happened to wander by granted the fact that the women were being given a distinct advantage, but that she was glad they were. She said, that, under the circumstances, she felt they needed it. 
"A woman representative would be the only one to know what it is like to be one of the first 365 women on campus, just as an off-campus representative would be the only one able to know what an off­campus situation is like," said Waltman, a 1st-minute write-in candidate in the campus-wife SLC elections held in September. 
"All the different views and segments deserve represen­tation," she continued. "The woman should make her voice and her views heard, and not wait to be asked for the 'woman's point of view.' " 
Badin Hall Steering Committee Chairman Kim Magnotta urged all women to vote in the elections. She said that they may do so in both Badin and Walsh Halls between 
11:30 and 1:00 p.m., or between 
5:00 and 6:00 p.m. 

get funds lro:rn student activity fees 
itemized on the student's bill, could "supplement or eliminate the existing hall taxes," suggested Jeselnick. The HPC hopes, added Jeselnick, that this method of financing the HPC will be "a viable and visible usage of the students' student government fee." 
A subcommittee of the HPC was formed to draw up a concrete proposal to be presented to the HPC and then to the SLC for 
publication. 

Participants will be asked to list which they think are the most pressing, numberin~ them in order of importance and crossing out those which they think are no problem. 
Each will also be asked to ex­plain the specifics for each's top three on his or her list, and will be given space and opportunity to explain any further complaint or comment. 
Students' names and residence halls will be requested but not required. 
C'.O.U.P. hopes to work through campus mail servicemen and have a questionaire placed in each student's mailbox (one to a box, not to a student) with the Wed­nesday <Nov.ll 4:00pm mail. 
Boxes for receipt of these questionnaires, will be maintained 24 hours a day from Wednesday afternmon through Friday night in each hall, and students may also return completed forms to the student government offices during this time. 
The committee will meet with 
Ombudsman personnel Nov. 8 to 
evaluate questionnnaites and 


STEPHEN STILLS 
ri\m~~,_TA-, 
TOMMORROW NIGHT 
Showtlme ---8:30 sharp l 
Son1e Good Seats Are Still 
Available At The at the 
ACC Ticket Office 
Note: Casual dress is encouraged. 
....presented by the NO Student Union.... 
One issue the group will study is the possibility of eliminating the separate hall taxes in the future. The group will also study, added Jeselnick, whether it will be necessary to raise the present fee, to maintain the subsidy and the other organizations the fee presently supports. The subsidy would be "quite a large sum", in the words of Jeselnick. If the per student figure were $4.00, the budget would be "well over 
compile the results. Courses ot future action will be chosen after that time. 
Committee members were generally optimistic about theri efforts.. However, they stress that C.O.U.P.'s work will only "catch fire" if the students take time to fill out each questionnaire. 
"We've got to keep in mind that this is a student service," siad one committee member afterwards, "and as such requires a good amount of student cooperation at this critical juncture <the filling out of the questionnaires)." 
Boxes for questionnaire collection in each of the residential halls will be placed near the mailboxes or in hall lobbies, the committee also reported. 
$20,000." Next week, a committee com-
Butch Ward, HPC President, ·posed of Ward, Jeselnick, two hall reported that the allocation for the presidents, and a rector chosen by Hall Life Fund was given a boost the HPC will be formed to allocate since the Social Commission of the the non-An Tostal funds of the Hall Student Union has agreed to Life sponsor the free concert during An Next week, a committee com-Tostal weekend. posed of Ward, Jeselnick, two hall 
Jeselnick also requested $500 presidents, and a rector chosen by further aid from the St. Mary's the HPC will be formed to allocate Student Assembly last nightneeded the non-An Tostal funds of the Hall to meet the proposed budget for Life Fund. An Tostal. 
Return ENGAGEMENT .... 




Promenade 

St. Marys Snack Shop 
Friday the 27th 10-1 am Following Stephen Stills Concert 

Admission 25' Dancing & Entertainment 
LAST NIGHT: Woody Allen "All You Wanted To Know ... " 
THE WILDEST CLUB IN TOWN! YOU MIGHT NOT WANT TO JOIN­BUT YOU SHOULD SEE~ .. SWEDISH WIFE EXCHANGE CLUB! 





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
News: 283-1715

John Abowd Don Ruane
Editorial: 283-8661

Editor-in-Chief Executive Editor
Business: 283-7471 

Thursday, October 26, 1972 

Where are the students? 
Sometimes it seems as if everytime you turn around someone is asking you to do this or give that so that a little relief or happiness can be injected into someone's life. 
Notre Dame students have built a fine reputation for themselves when it comes to answering those .requests. The swimming team spends time with the Logan Center children teaching them fundamentals and helping them have fun. 
A large group of students tutor South Bend children. 
Latest response 
The lastest and largest response came last Saturday when more than 700 students gave up their tickets so that South Bend children could see a big time college football game. While it turned out to be a good day to stay home, no one knew in advance that it would be cold and wet, and that Notre Dame would lose, and all those who supported the program deserve a hearty well done. 
But there was another request made before last week's game, that perhaps was drowned in the publicity granted the exchange. It was a request from the March of Dimes. 
MOD 

Usually MOD can collect $1000 on the 
average by seeking contributions before 
game time. Lastweek they didn't come 
near that because only three persons 
answered their call. 
Everybody knows, or seems to know 
that MOD helps fight crippling physical 
defects. This year's poster child has just 
been fitted \lith artificial arms at the 
MOD'sexpense. Had last Saturday been a 
normal day, the price of his set of ar­
tificial limbs probably would have been 
colelcted. 
Without inflation, or any rise in the 
cost of materials and craftsmanship that go into a set of mechanical limbs, the poster child will need approximately a dozen more average Saturday's to absorb thfcost t of a new set each year tooffsetthe factor of natural growth. 
Only one example 

This child is only one example. MOD needs your help this Saturday, and for the rest of the season. If you think you can turn around once more, give Al Brenner a call at 3666 
Don Ruane 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 

Letters • • • • 

football tix 
Editor: 

As a freshman this year at Notre Daml'. I have been exposed and subjected to various experiences and regulations. Some are quite stimulating: others are totall) insipid. R£'cently, I have noted the difficulty that some of my fellow students have met with in at­tempting to slip girlfriends into the football stadium via the use of student tickets. As the university receives the same amount of money no matter who uses the lickets, I see the policy of non­
transferable student tickets as ridicuouslv inane. Whv can't the students <and by "students" I am cf'rtain that I am speaking of a vast majority of the student body which shares thi~ viewpoint) do something about this antiquated and unreasonable dictate? Once l'ach year the underprivileged children of South Bend are allowed to use student tickets to enable them to see The Fighting Irish; I am sure this is a noble effort. Why then can't students be permitted to allow non-university friends to use student tickets for the same privilege? Until someone exJ?lains this situation, I shall remam ut­tf'rly perplexed. 
Tom Aanstoos '76 

telegram from sarin 
T.M. HESBURGH NOTRE DAME, IN. 

TED: BEEN IN RED CHINA STOP ARRIVE HOME SOON STOP CAME BACK WHEN HEARD LEAHY NEEDED ACUPUNCTURE STOP YOUV'VE BEEN DOOING NICE JOB BUT WHAT IS THIS I HEAR ABOUT A KING ON CAMPUS? 
SORIN 


176eR, .rH!Wc 50HeTHING I H!WtJ ro rtJu.. 
.. YO{).. 
d 
_;: Gt€55 I've 9eeN /r!NP OF HIP/No IT, 91/T NOW .Z'H 77Rt0 OF 5NcAk­IN6 AR(){)NP 8£HIAIO YOV.e 
9/K:K. 1/lVST He TOt!£ 

more than ever 
Editor: 

We were thinking about President Nixon's campaign slogan, "Now, More Than Ever", and it is remarkable just how true this statement is. · 
We now have more bombing than ever. more prisoners of war than ever, more unemployment, more suppression of the minorities, more inflation, more political scandal, more distrust of the government, more drug abuse, and more waste than ever before. 
Nixon's the one! 

Students Now Concerned More than Ever About the President. 
<In Alphabetical Order Brian Barnett, Ricardo A. Campa , Jr., Mark Carney, Fred Graver, Mike Hatton, John Juarez, Jr. , Steve Kempa, Joe Lee, Steve Petit, Henry Seduski. 
8.{).... .r'v& etJ£111 
WORI\/N6 FOR 
6CORGe 
Nc60VeRN. 
apinian 


A case against Masters and Johnson fred antczak 

The poses, pretentions, and assumptions of any discussion are 
usually its most subtle and misleading features. Now, listeners ought 
to suspend belief until they hear the whole s~ory; but any evaluation of 
that story ought to include seeing its basis as well as following its 
development. It's at this level that I want to argue against Masters 
and Johnson's perception of sex. 

"Sex is a natural function," they told us. We ought to be able to see 
what they mean by noting other examples of "natural functions." 
Well, eating and defecation are others. This ought to arouse suspicion, 
because sex differs from the other functions in a very important and 
relevant way: eating and defecation are regularly necessary to 
survive, but sex is a matter of choice. Simply saying that "sex is a 
natural function" is M&J's way of absolutely begging the interesting 
question: when, and why, should a man choose to function sexually? 
Disguised in Clinical White 

The descriptive pose of the v.alue-free social scientist becomes clearer in their statement, "There are no considerations about sex exterior to the persons involved." I'll try to show that they've disguised in clinical white an assumption that, far from being descriptive, is prescriptive. We see how this sort of statement would be earnestly applauded by audiences of people seeking to escape any or all possibility of guilt and responsibility. What the doctors are saying is: 'do your own thing; overarching moral systems do two unacceptable things: they incorporate myths that we can prove false, and they attach bad vibrations to a stimulus that is (according to M&J) naturally neutral.' Of course, they themselves (certainly not Dr. Reubin) will determine for tis what's myth and what's not, and they are the ones who, without rigorous proof, have defined certain vibrations as inappropriate. 
Three Couples 

While empirical misconceptions deserve debunking, let's not throw out the baby with the bath. Are we ready to accept that whatever sounds good in our mind is the final answer, with no check against any independent standard? For example, take three couples. Couple A have intercourse together and only together. This is openly because they love each other. Each member of couple B only engages in masturbation, never touching each other. Couple C each exclusively engages in bestiality. All of them claim to be perfectly happy and content with their sex lives. 
Are we ready to accept that there is no way we may properly call couple A in any way healthier or better adjusted? Masters and Johnson must and do tell us that there is no "exterior" sexual dif­ferences among these examples; or again, no difference between our couple A, a homosexual couple, and a masochist-sadist duo. It doesn't necessarily matter whom or what you engage sexually, only t,\wt the participants achieve gratification. 
M&J say that "sex is communication"; what could they mean, and why would we want to communicate? If there's no consideration exterior to each mind, it's impossible to prove (as the doctors never attempt) that babbling about one's own fantasies is any less meaningful than some sort of "commitment", for judgments a bout meaning require a transcending standard. If there's nothing necessarily true for everybody, then one sexual myth is as good as another; and after all, if there's nothing that's absolutely true, all we can have is personal myths. 
The Libbie and the Stud 

The upshot of this is that the women's libbie has no moral claim against the stud who objectifies her; to say that he's wrong appeals to an exterior, shared value which she can't expect anyone else to necessarily accept. Her recourse, one muses, might be to physical coercion, to which, in his turn, the stud can't morally object. 
"Sex is communication." If this is true, then it ought to share generic traits with other kinds of communication. But the other ways we communicate assume that there are shared standards. Why else, for example, would Dostoevsky or Kafka have and made public Brothers Karamazov or The Trial if there were no public standard by which we can judge either work to be superior to, say, 50 pages of random vowels, consonants, and symbols? To be fair, some fiction doesn't assume the existence of a standard, whence we get the con­ceptual and lingual violence of Joyce, Finnegan's Wake. 
Exterior Considerations 

Rather than denying exterior considerations, the doctors should have said that no one, including themselves, have an access to them which is exclusive or complete enough to be perfectly authoritative. The reason that sexual myths ought to be debunked is simply because they aren't true, (while other things are). It is about this standard that we may most richly communicate, and it's our yearning to share in this real world around us that is our reason for communicating. As long as we go on listening, evaluating and speaking, we are ex­pressing our faith in, and perhaps sharing of, this exterior reality. The existence of this belief and sharing is the soul of the case against 
Masters and Johnson. 


,arry trudeau 
WH n1'?I ft£115E,
nf). 
'TR TO 
I 
the observer 
Night Editor: george lund Ass't Night Editor: Art Esposito Design: Lynn DiGullio, Tim 
Neuville, Anthony Abowd Day Editor: Tom Drape Pictureman: Jerome Sports Night Editor: Vic 
Dorr Night Controller: Steve Roper Typists: John Flannigan, Barb Norcross, Mark Niederkorn. Tom Modglin 
Editorials printed in The Ob­server reflect the opinion of th writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial com­ment. 


--~ 

----~-----·-----------------------------­
Thursday, October 26, 1972 the observer 
5 





Academic Viewpoints 


Academic Viewpoints is an effort to stimulate  administrative bodies of their college.  positive course of self-evaluation.  
discussion and input primarily from the  It is hoped that their opinions encourage the  Science major Bill Elliot zeroes in on par­ 
students, but also from the faculty and ad­ members of each of these groups to contribute to  ticipatory groups by describing the functions and  
ministration towards the processes that are used  the academic betterment of their college in some  activities of various clubs within that college. 
to review and reform the curriculums used by  way, whether it be simply calling a council  Elliot, who is a Senior, also presents plans 
the four colleges at Notre Dame.  member and making a suggestion or by joining a  several clubs have made, and charts the course  
Each fall semester there are requests for  college organization.  he would like to see the council follow.  
student representatives to the various academic  Each person was asked to contribute on a topic  Bill Kaufman is a managing editor of the Notre  
advisory councils. The slots are filled, but by  of his choice within the academic sphere of his  Dame Business Review, and joins Burke in  
whom most students would not be able to say.  college. It could have been on the need for more  recommending more opportunities to exercise  
Equally unfortunate is the tendency for the  imput from faculty or students, the need for  tools learned in the classroom. He also tries to  
student academic people not to seek a wide or  more participatory activities, curriculum  dispel myths about joining organizations, such  
thorough expression of opinion from the mem­ revision or an outline of the path they would like  as having to know someone, or feeling dumb  
bers of their college.  to see their advisory council follow this year.  because you are new. The emphasis Kaufman  
The result is that neither group is aware of the  Arts and Letters Junior Pete Homer confronts  places in his article falls on the value of ex­ 
thoughts and ideas held by the other. This leads  the problem of student input. He writes that it  perience gained in using tools and in par­ 
to confusion about college requirements, poorly  has not only been lacking, but that it has not been  ticipatory activites.  
planned curriculums, and a general gripe that  recognized for its intrinsic value as another  Also included in the supplement is a recom­ 
student opinion is not considered.  perspective. Homer also chides students,  mendation from the Arts and Letters Dean's  
All but one of the contributors from the four  faculty and administrators for assuming their  Committee for Collegiate Development for a 1-2­ 
colleges are members of their advisory council.  views to be almost dogmatic, and encourages  1 curriculum, which is complemented by Burke's  
The other is the managing editor of a publication  them to bend more in the future.  comments on a curriculum that allows for a  
that is widely read and respected within his  Senior Ed Burke has centered his article about  program to extend across several departmental  
college.  the first four years the College of Engineering  lines.  
They were asked to contribute because the  has experienced since dropping its  A reprint of Staff Reporter Jim Ferry's report  
Observer felt they were in a position to express  degree criteria requirements from 144 to 128  on the demise of the Honor Code at Notre Dame  
student concerns from the vantage point of being  credits. Drawing from experiences, he looks at  is part of the sidelight examining cheating and  
inside or near enough to the process of academic  the pros and cons of "core courses," urges the  what is being done about it at Notre Dame.  
review to comment intelligently. However, their opinions should not be construed to necessarily represent the opinions of the faculty, student or  practical application of classroom learned tools through work study or senior research programs, and encourages the college to continue its  Don Ruane Executive Editor  


Executive Editor Don Ruane Special Proiects Editor Dan Barrett  Contributors Arts and Letters: Pete Homer Science: Bill Elliot · Engineering: Ed Burke Business: Bill Kaufman Demise of Honor Code: Jim Ferry  Photographers Jim Hunt Steve Flann \Ji.n Carl 'straub N.D. Publications  



the observer Thursday, October 26, 1972
6 
A&L Dean's Committee Viewpoint 
The report of the Arts and Letters Dean's 
committee on collegiate development has 
suggested the use of a 1-2-1 instructional 
program to keep the goals a~d ideals o_f the 
college within the formal and mformal dimen­
sions of learning processes. 
The report, which was recently completed, 
describes 'the formal dimension as the 
curriculum and the informal as learning 
processes ~nd situations which arise out of 
educational needs and interests for which the 
curriculum does not directly provide and es­
pecially from the residential nature of the 
College. 
While the Dean's committee was formulating the 1-2-1 proposal printed below, four themes were central to all considerations. 
The first involved the enlarged scope of liberal education, which has resulted from the immense growth of the natural and social sciences, two traditionally intrinsic areas of liberal education. In addition to respecting the intrinsic character of each, the committee places emphasis on science as a human creation and activity, with significance which must be appraised within the total human context. 
The inner dynamics of a liberal educative 
system <knowledge, capacities and attitudes), is 
the second theme. Here the committee feels 
knowledge is never inert, but serves as an 
energizer of capacities, and suggests and 
recommends attitudes. In turn, capacities and 
attitudes must be developed as a necessary 
condition for the pursuit of humanistic 
knowledge. 
The committee's third theme emphasizes the 
skill of dialectical or deliberative inquiry, 
because it tends to restore confidence in the 
validity of rational dialogue on matters of right 
and wrong, and of taste. This prepares the 
student for participation in a free and civil order. 
Finally, the committee considers it a mark ?f the liberally educated man to be able to pool h1s 
knowledge and relate the result to live situations 
requirng judgement and prudence. 
the 1-2-1 program 
According to the committee's suggestion the 
first year is meant to give the Student a solid 
conception of the liberal experience. It should be 
a common experience for all freshmen in the 
college, and include the goals of liberal 
education: approaches to this area,: what is 
required of the individual, and what attitudes 
should be developedafter completing the 
program. 
The second and third years provide a choice of 
selecting a major or a college sequence of study. 
The college sequence places a thematic em­
phasis on some area, such as American 
Civilization, and is followed through a course 
sequence composed of courses from various 
departments. Work is done under a collegiate 
professor, with the assistance of a counseling 
committee of interested professors from the 
departments involved to help maintain per­
spectives. 
The fourth year emphasis is on synthesizing, 
deepening and evaluating the educational ex­
perience in seminars; further course sequences; 
personal, creative projects; or field work. 
The committee's more d~tailed description is 
printed below. 
organizational p-inciple 
The students' liberal educational experience 
should possess coherence and direction. The 
student should be able to participate actively and 
responsibly in the development of his own 
educational experience, within the general 
structure of the program, and thus acquire a 
sense of growth and increasing autonomy. He 
should understand the inner dialectic of 
knowledge, capacity and attitude which liberal 
education involves. 
A vital tension will inform the instructional 
program if it meets these norms. On the one 
hand, the dynamic of the program will be toward 
specialization, and specific competencies; on the 
other, it will be toward unification, coherence, 
organic and directional unity. Both of these 
movements are necessary; while that toward 
unity, coherence, and direction represents the 
dominant movement, it can be successful only if 
it rests upon a solid basis of specific knowledges 
and competencies. The student must sense this 
movement and sense the essential but creative 
tension between them. 
Competence in specific fields, subject matters, 
and disciplines is the office of the departments: 
for this reason the development of the depart­
ments must be a constant concern. The work of 
securing coherence and directional unity 
drawing upon the competencies of the depart­
ments falls to the College program and the College is its proper locus. 
the strudure 
The Basic formal instructional program should continue to be projected over four years, and the Developmental Program should be ordered to this projection. At the same time however, plans should be devdoped within four year projection which would enable some students, under specific conditions, to complete work for the degree in three years. Also, within the framework of the four year program, provision should be made for students' in­terrupting the program for a period of time and then resuming their college program without prejudice and possibly with some recognition <through faculty consultation and evaluation) of the experience acquired in the interval. 
The College, as presently organized, follows the conventional model in American un­dergraduate education. Two years of general exploratory studies are followed by two years of specialization in departmental major fields. The four year Developmental Program would in­troduce the following structure: 1-2-1. The first year represents a period of common experience for all incoming freshmen in the College. The second and third years constitute a vertical continuity of concentrated and progressive effort in a collegiate sequence or in a departmental major. The fourth year would represent a period of synthesis and personally oriented work. 
freshman year 
While the Freshman Year at Notre Dame is administered by a single University office, the various Colleges have autonomy with respect to the curricular structure. The Developmental Program in the College of Arts and Letters will seek to insure that this period serve as a sound basis for the student's total experience in the College. The chief aim will be to enable the student to secure a sense, an image and an idea of the character of the liberal experience upon which he is entering. More important than that acquisition of any specific knowledge or com­petence should be an understanding of the ty(w. of experience, liberal education, upon which he is entering, what its goals are, the kinds of knowledge it embraces and the way in which it addresses them (i.e. as liberal and humanistic), the capacities it requires and which it will help him develop and the attitudes which it will invite him to cultivate as a liberally and civilly educated person. All of these elements should be exhibited and exemplified in the experience of the Freshman Year, i.e. the actual courses, etc; they can also become the object of specific reflective study in a course directed especially to the problem of what liberal and civil education is. 
two year division 
The sophomore and junior years, in the 1-2-1 structure, will form a vertical collegiate sequence and would constitute the period of the students' concentrated effort. During these years, two options would be open to hom: 
A. The Major 
He might, with counseling, option for a major in one of the departments of the College. This would give him a central interest in which he would seek to achieve a special competence. In this case, too, however, premature over­concentration would be avoided because the major option would be buffered by course requirements which insure a reasonably ex­tensive contact with other fields. 
B. The Collegiate Sequence. 
He might enter one of the two3 year collegiate sequences which the Developmental Program will introduce. These two year collegiate sequences would place emphasis upon a theme which would be pursued and developed through a constellation of courses offered by the departments in their competences as con­tributory to the theme. In the structure of these collegiate sequences, by the selection of theme and ordering of contributory courses, the character of the civil orientation of liberal education would be especially underlined. The structure of the collegiate sequence would in­clude: 
1. A theme of basic interest from the view of such civil orientation; examples of such themes are American Civilization, Science Technology and Society, and Concepts and Problems of International Community. 
3. A constellation of courses for the various areas: humanities, natural and social sciences, fine arts, etc. about the theme. For example: the constellation of courses exploring the theme of American Civilization would naturally be drawn from such fields as American History, Economics. Sociology, Politics, Literature, Art 
The report describes the 
the formal dimension 
as the curriculum, and 
the infancl as learning 
processes and situations 
which arise out of 
educaticnal needs and 
interests fa which the 
curriculum does not 
directly provide. 
History, Religion, Philosophy, Science and Technology. 
4. A progression through a constellation of courses exploring the themes. 
Each collegiate sequence would be directed by a collegiate professor aided by a counseling committee of interested professors and students, who would under the direction of the collegiate professor, design the collegiate sequence, and into a major field, from collegiate sequence. 
fourth year 
The fourth year would be devoted to securing: 
A. Horizontal breadth from the basis of either a breadth for a collegiate sequence or a major; 
B. Integration about central points such great issues; 
C. With counseling; a creative project in some area such as: art, literary or social criticism, creative writing, etc. 
D. Further concentration in a major field, when recommended. 
The full force here would fall upon the activity of the students in synthesizing, deepening, evaluating his educational experience in dif­ferent ways. Available would be: 
A. Horizontal seminars or courses; 
B. An integrating collegiate seminar; 
C. Further course sequences, developing further some dimension of one of the collegiate sequences; 
D. Personal creative and critical projects; 
E. Field work in areas where this would be appropriate. 
consultative committees 
Permanent committes on the Natural Sciences and the Liberal Arts, the Social Sciences and the Liberal Arts and the Fine Arts and the Liberal Arts would be established as part of the Dean's Committee on Collegiate Development. Their purpose would be to foster communication among the elements of the College and the University. They would monitor their respective dimensions of the Liberal Arts Program to in­sure the relevance and effectiveness of the courses offered in these areas within the Liberal Arts Program. They would recommend for example, the courses in their areas to be in­cluded in a collegiate sequences, or a major program. 

------~------------------~----~-. 
Thursday, October 26, 1972 the observt!l" 
7 

Student Advisory Council View 
All parties are guilty of making their standards the final norms and judging others for failure to conform 

The Student Advisory Council of the College of Arts and Letters--a body of eleven students with the function of advising the College--has for­mulated a procedure to allow anyone interested to have their ideas heard and acted upon. 
Five members of the Advisory Council are voting members in the Arts and Letters College Council --a 50-member body including all department heads. elected faculty represen­tatives, and the college deans. The students have introduced several proposals to the College Council since the beginning of last year (when students were seated for the first time) and all have been acted upon favorably. For one, on March 15, the College Council passed a "problems procedure" to be mediated by the Student Advisory Council with faculty par­ticipation--that allows student input to the Arts an Letters College to come from anyone. 
Such ·"problems" might include anything as personal as a student's dislike for the way a professor runs his course to a "problem" as universal as an idea for changing the pass-fail options currently being offered. Perhaps a student feels his courses are not demanding enough--or perhaps too demanding when com­pared to the credit rewarded. Perhaps a student sees too much cheating in his classes and would like to do something about it. 
Of Course, student representatives at all levels of input have been concerning themsleves with matters such as these. but their losing touch with what most students really find wrong with their education is not uncommon. The "problems procedure" is designed to avoid that problem within the Arts and Letters College. 
The procedure is also intended to allow a student who feels he received an undeserved grade to do something after regular appeals channels within a department have been exhausted. Some Arts and Letters departments have grievance procedures of their own, but others don't, and students have found them­selves with nowhere to turn after seeing the professor and department chairman involved. The "problem procedure" allows for a final appeal, a thorough investigation if warranted, and the weight of the opinion of other students and faculty members--people who the Dean will listen to--when a student has truly been aggrieved. 
The procedure is a bit intricate and lengthy 
but that is the price of thoroughness. (Of course 
simple suggestions on any matter can be for­
warded directly to the Student Advisory Council 
address listed below without any further 
procedure at all.) 
by Peter Homer Member. A & L Student Advisory Council 
Part of the problem in attempting constructive changes within universities today is the in­soluable nature of many issues facing them. Problems arising from finances, from coeducation, from tenure systems, and even from food servies are characteristic of all schools . However, in the past, institutions of higher learning have often attempted temporary and even haphazard solutions and treated them as if they were the final ones. 
Once we realize that there is probably no complete set of solutions applicable to any of these areas, we could stop resting vn some proximate solution as if it were the ultimate. Ignorance of this fact--or plain stubbornness in resisting--has presented the greatest stumbling block to constructive change within university structures. It has left schools such as Notre Dame struggling to solve problems of the 1970's with sometimes hopelessly outdated answers. 
participation, autonomy 
Student input into the decision-making ap­paratus of Notre Dame contains both ephemeral and more permanently valid elements. Although one can't say that students are more perceptive than the more experienced members of the university, it would be equally foolish to eliminate student perceptions or fail to ap­preciate their convictions which grow out of many varying perspectives. As university ad­ministrators and faculty recognize this, we must ask ourselves how to best effect the translation of these elements into teaching and learning ac­tivity. 
This simply means that the student should be able to participate actively and responsibly in the development of his own educational ex­perience within the general structure of the program and thus acquire a sense of growth and increasing autonomy. 
deliverative inquiry 
However, a problem arises, as undergraduates at Notre Dame have discovered from time to time, that established procedures are lacking for direct action upon their ideas, complaints, contributions, and problems concerning the running of the university, the individual colleges, and their own courses. 
If we really need communication and constant 
examination of governing principles, we ought especially to encourage and develop the skill of dialectical or deliverative inquiry. A recent report of the Arts and Letters Deans Committee on Collegiate Development maintains that: 
"this mode of inquiry tends to restore con­fidence in the validity of rational dialogue on matters of right and wrong and of taste." 
All parties are called upon to exercise judgmentand prudence. To understand all the dimensions that this dialectic entails, we should consider the three parties involved: faculty, student,and administrator, and their sometimes damaging interworkings. 
Because the peril of disharmony from the variety of perspectives within the university is always so great and the pride of the dominant group so imperious, some effort is always made to coerce unity. At times, the administration will fondly imagine its perspective to be ultimate. Some faculty members think themselves emancipated of all prejudice but frequently manage to express it covertly in their benevolent condescension. 
As for students, they have not altogether ac­cepted the responsibilities of power and tend to pretend it's exercised by a peculiarly virtuous student body. All parties are guilty of making their own standards the final norms and of judging others for failure to conform to them. 
So after all these sweeping generalizations, where does the university stand? The answer rests in the tenet that a member of the university cannot fulfill his life within himself but only in responsible and mutual relations with his fellows. The problem lies in initiating procedures which will reduce misun­derstandings and allow individuals to rise above self-interests. 
The need for an established problems procedure for students wronged or unduly disappointed by a teacher, department, course, or educational program of the College of Arts and Letters has been neglected. 
Students from any college who found their grades in Arts and Letters courses significantly below their just ex­pectations; who found c·ourses or programs of disappointing value; or who found themselves burdened with any just grievance concerning an academic matter, formerly had to personally meet a teacher, department chairman, and finally the Dean, in an often unsatisfactory and time consuming effort to resolve it. Professors were often reluctant to reconsider their decisions, department chairmen tended to remain loyal to their professors, and the Dean was forced to m.ake a final decision without sufficient time available to fully investigate the case. 
The Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council has formulated a process by which students can air these grievances and have them investigated by fellow students, with results forwarded to the Dean: 
Though the Dean's and not the council's decision will ·be final, the council's recommendation will be a deciding factor in the final determination of the case. 
The student will present his grievance according to the following procedure: 
A. The student must always consult with the teacher involved as the first step. 
B. If a satisfactory agreement is not reached, the student should present his grievance to the department chairman under departmental procedures where they exist. 
C. If the student is not satisfied with the response of the department chairman, he should prepare a detailed written account of the particulars of his grievance and the response of the professor and the depart­ment chairman. This should be mailed to: 
The Grievance Committee Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council Room 137 O'Shaughnessey Hall Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
A member of the council will consider the student's claim and act upon it on the basis of the following criteria: l) the cia im must appear legitimate, and 2) the claim must involve a discrepancy of sufficient magnitude to warrant investigation (i.e., the council cannot hope to determine whether a student deserved an A-instead of a B, for example). If the above criteria are not met, the student will be so in­formed. If they are met, the~ student will be asked to appear before a panel of three members of the council and possibly a faculty participant as well. 
E. At the end of this investigation, the council will again meet with the student before making its final recommendation. 
F. The council makes its recom­mendation to the Dean. 
G. The Dean makes final determination of the case. 
The council wishes to emphasize that a grievance need not be based upon a specific grade or course, but may concern the quality and operation of academic programs within the college (for example, cheating, lack of rigor, general lack of academic achievement, etc.). 
It is the role of the Arts and Letters Student Advisory Council to contribute to the excellence of the college through consultation with the Dean. For this reason, it is of special importance that these more general grievances be brought to the attention of the council, and sub­sequently, the Dean. 
D. If the panel in consultation with the student, determines that the claim is just, the council will make a thorough in­vestigation, including a me•~ting with the professor and department chairman in­volved. 


--------------------------' 

-~~---------·. ----· ~·-~---­
8 the observer Thursday, October 26, 1972 

Engineering Viewpoint 

By Ed Burke 
President, Joint Engineering Council 
In the College of Engineering the senior class 
is the first one to spend all four years under the 
revised curriculum. The new course of studies 
has been streamlined from 144 credits to 128, and 
was assigned to reduce redundancy in course 
material. 
Consequently a large number of new courses 
were created and they were designed to have a 
much larger basis of appeal. Some of these 
courses have been very well received and others 
have been less than welcomed by the faculty and 
students. 
This year's senior class will be placed. in the unique position of trying to survey their four years at Notre Dame and to separate"the wheat from the chaff." 
It is commonly believed that more revisions are needed and deserved, but often a new and consequently poorly organized course is co~­fused with a useless or redundant course. It Will probably take several semesters before all the course outlines can be adequately ammended and texts and teaching techniques can be reviewed and finalized. 
"What is education?" 
One of the fundamental questions being debated in all four colleges is "What is education?" For an engineer the answer is often training for a job, and one can hardly deny that it is in a large part true. Education for the engineer must however, be viewed in two ways; as training and as developing the person, the individual. 
Neither of these branches of education can be simply defined or implemented. In th~ field of training students are often led to believe that their proficiency in the classroom skills will be the sole determining factor in their career success. 
This is not necessarily true, and in many cases the knowledge obtained from books will not be directly applicable, and only the capacity to learn and the analytical thought process will remain as tools of the trade. Experience teaches that good engineers come from the bottom of the class as well as the top. 
The idea of a liberal engineer is something often ignored by most, and this is perhaps one of the largest failings of our education. The liberal Pngineer is not only a well rounded ineividual, but also a socially conscious person. He is a person who is committed to preserving. and enriching our way of life and not merely havmg. a job. profit motivation. He is one who wi.II maintain a "realistic idealism" throughout his entire life. 

curriculum review needed 
The engineering college is now at a point where a review of all its curriculum is required. This includes the content of the courses and also the idea for teaching what are called core courses. Core courses are ones that must be taken by all engineering intents. They are designed to be general enough so that all engineers can take them, and yet each one ap­plies differently to each field of engineering. 
The advantages of cores are obvious; they save money because of larger sections, they allow greater freedom to change majors, and they increase the interaction betwee~ the dif­ferent disciplines. When on the JOb each engineer will be expected to work with other engineers in different fields and also be expected to solve problems which aren't really in his area. 
. ,..~..:·~~·.) ·.. 
.• 
..With the new 128 credit degrees there is much more freedom to diversify programs." 
There are also some inherent difficulties in cores, and they come in the selection of materials to be taught. If ah introductory to electrical engineering course is designed for chemical, civil and other engineering, it is less than ideal for electrical, and vice versa. 
The one obvious solution is to teach a special introductory course for each engineering intent, but this defeats the purpose of .core,course. This problem is apparent in many of them. 
The second problem is redundancy. Many departments cover the same material under different course titles. If the core is to be kept in its present form, all other ceurses must be examined to see just how they interact with the core orogram. 
Another problem with con•s is that some courses haven't seemed to take shape yet. They are still disorganized and unduly difficult in spite of all the time and effort spent by the faculty. In these cases, poor texts and course outlines are found to be at fault and in need or correction. 
With the new 128 credit degrees there is much more freedom to diversify programs. A student who has a specific set of inter~ .:;ts crossing several fields is free to pursue them. Biomedical engineering is an example. This should be en­couraged, and if there is sufficient interest, specific programs should be tailored for those who are interested. 
Although to get a degree from a department in the College of Engineering a large number of courses using free and technical lectures must 
be taken, a proper interdisciplinary program can be designed. 
Work study and senior research are two areas which can be very beneficial educationally, and also provide funds for those who need them to stay in school. Work study involves spending a year or semester working outside the University for academic credit. This makes the classroom education much more valuable because it can be put in perspective; and for some students the money earned is an absolute essential to continue their studies. This program requires much coordination, but would be ex­tremely worthwhile here at Notre Dame. 
Senior research can have many of the work study benefits. It can provide valuable job ex­perience, a challenge not found in the classroom and sometimes it is actually subsidized finan­cially by an outside firm and can help a student pay for his education. On a large scale this program would require some preparation but is entirely feasible in a school like ours. 
The engineering college is now in a state of flux. Where it goes from here will depend to some degree on the structure in the present college. What they show an interest in will effect the students for a long time. 
Although the college is less than perfect, it is in a period of reflection upon itself, and this is to its credit. Time, suggestions and constructive criticism will help the department to fulfill its function to educate students technically and as individuals in society. 
Ed Burke is a senior in the College of Engineering. 
Thursday, October 26, 1972 the observe1· 9 
----~ 

Science Viewpoint 

By Bill Elliott 
Member. Science Advisory Council 
There are basically two types of activities in an .academic sphere that will be considered by the Science Student Advisory Council during this academic year. These are the activities planned and executed by the various scientifically­related clubs on campus, and other functions.~ that are carried out by the council as a whole. 
The activities planned by the individual clubs are as varied as the clubs themselves. Prac­tically all the clubs are involved in the spon­sorship of lectures by distinguished people in their various disciplines. It seems also that the clubs are very much interested in promoting more student-faculty interactions; toward this end, many clubs plan informal get-togethers, smokers, or parties with faculty. 
The Biology Club has sponsored • TGIFs for biology majors and profs, the Pre-Med club has one planned at Nickie's Tuesday the 27th, and so forth. Some clubs plan to become more involved with their counterparts on other campuses; for example, the Chemistry Club is already associated with the American Chemical Society and the Physics Club is planning to join the American Society of Physics Students. Some clubs are devoting more time to future prospects in their fields. The Math Club plans a lecture series concerned with careers in Math-related fields; the AED <Pre-Med honor society) currently has a program which allows students to work in the Emergency Room at St. Joseph's Hospital in South Bend. 
review language 
requirement 
The major acedemically-oriented activities planned by the Council as a whole for this year are three: representation at the College Council meetings, the Science and Engineering Fair, and the Challenges in Science Lectures. 
The College Council last year tabled a petition from 95 students and six members of the science faculty to reconsider the nine hour language requirement in favor of a more relaxed requirement The current method of having to take, for example, a Russian Literature course on Tolstoy, taught in English, as a third semester of Russian language, is seen by many students as an unnecessary burden. 
The college's rationale for the third semester of the language has always been that one is not able to pass a graduate school language test with the knowledge gained in only two smesters of college-level foreign language study. Of course, this rationale has been questioned by those who will not attend graduate school, and also by a good many of the Pre-Meds, who have only a two-semester requirement fill for most medical schools. Thus these students feel that they are being forced to take something that is not in the best inerests of their plans for the future. 
The Advisory Councl plans to ressurect the idea of the reduction in the requirement, and investigate possibilities that could reduce the requirement to two semesters of the language, with the third as a strongly recommended option for those students planning to attend graduate school. This must be done through the College Council, which is why we require strong representation by the Advisory Council on that body. 
This year, as has been the case since 1960, Notre Dame will provide facilities for the area Science and Engineering Fair, to be held in Stepan Center in March. The Advisory Council 
Practically all the clubs are involved in the sponsorship of lectures by distinguished people in their various fields. 

.::.~
\ / 
\ 
/ 
helps Dr. Emil T. Hofman, Dean of the Fresh­man Year, with the planning and coordination of activities of this fair. 
This includes the organization of the "kick-off" meeting held for area high school students and their high school science coordinators (teachers), and the actual set-up, judging, and presentation of prizes for the fair. The council works in conjunction with the Joint Engineering Council on this project. 
science lecture series 
The Challenges in Science Lecture Series is a program funded by Arthur J. Schmitt, which invites noted scientists and science-related professionals to the campus to deliver talks in their specialties to the Notre Dame student body. 
This has usually been done on a single lecturer per semester basis. 
Outstanding lecturers in the past have in­cluded: Louis Alvarez· "X-raying the Pyramids", William A. Nolan "The Making of a Surgeeon", Arthur C. Clarke, "The World in 2001." This year, the Council will present Edgar 
D. Mitchell, the sixth man on the moon, astronaut, and scientist, to speak on a topic related to his science-oriented work in space. 


the observer Thursday, October 26, 1972 

Business Viewpoint 
The second phase of expanding education takes place outside the classroom, and is much more feasible as an immediate goal. I imagine that many students are under the mistaken impression that a person must ..know someone to become involved. " 

by Hill Kaufman Managing Editor. Husinl'ss Review It seems somewhat strange and a bit frightening to be addressing the student body through this mC'dia. Granted my work on the Notrl' Dame Busint•ss HPvil'w has provided me with some Pxperience in the world of jounalism, but that Pxperience is one of a man behind the scenes. I do not often have the opportunity to express my personal opinions in the Review. Yet I have been asked to take a critical look at the business eollege and its students, and offer to you what idC'as I may come up with. Naturally this is only one viewpoint, just one of eleven-hundred dif­fC'rC'nt viewpoints within the Business College. Why does a student ever choose to major in business'l Or for that matter, how does one decide to major in any field? Perhaps for some it 

is a career decision; the ide:r of a good job, hard work. upward mobility, etc. Or for others, it may be the easy way to coast through their college years. With the right amount of advanced planning, those special courses we all know about are readily available. Be it one of these reasons. or a dozen others, the choice is made, and the business student is locked into his major for the next three years. 
"what do we do " 
Yet after the decision is made, the vital question is: what do we do with the educational process which we pay for so highly in both time and money? Is it enough to plod along with our 15 to 18 credit hours per semester striving for that mystical "Dean's List average" which will bolt us directly into Law School or Graduate School? I think not. 
It is my opinion that the educational process will be most incomplete unless it is expanded outisde the classroom, professor-lecture en­viorment. What good will come from all the facts, theories, and concepts we learn if we do not apply them on our own outside the classroom? While it can not be denied that the fundamentals are a very crucial part of our education, I would like to see more effort channeled into expanding our knowledge through application of fundamentals both in and out of the classroom. 
excellent base 
The Business College can offer an excellent base from which we can expand our practical knowledge. One apporach is through the college's curriculum and the second approach is through increased student participation in student-oriented activities. I would like to ex­pand on these two ideas in the remainder of this article. 
During his three years in the Business College, 
tne typical student is exposed to an abundant 
amount of facts, figures, and theories concerning 
the business world. This is supposed to lay the 
groundwork for success in the "real" world. But 
isn't the key to success really the proper ap­
plication of those very facts, formulas and 
theories? And isn't the basic function of 
education to prepare us to cope with the 
problems expected in the !future? 
I would be deceiving you if I stated the Businesss College did not have any courses which sought to teach the application of the fundamentals taught within the college. Yet these types of courses, most of which are based on case studies, are to few. With just one or two courses taken by the average student, the ability to sense the correct procedure in any number of situations is not developed . 
more fundamentals 
What I personally would like to see is more emphasis placed on the application of the fun­damentafs. The senior year would offer the ideal time to offer these types of courses. The previous two years are .spent grasping the basic concepts. After this the senior year should be encouraged to use the knoweldge in case problem-solving. This is the time for the senior to learn by trial and error. The mistakes should be made before we leave the University, not afterwards. Mistakes are not expected in the business world. 
pseudo-corporations 
Following this line of reasoning, another 
beneficial program would be setting up pseudo­
corporations to be run by a team of students. 
This idea is similar to the recent innovations set 
up in the Southern Methodist University business 
curriculum. The program would incorporate 
practical experience in all operations of a 
business firm and also expose the ,students to one 
of the newest concepts of business: team 
management. , 
The second phase of expanding education 
takes place outside the classroom, and is much 
more feasible as an immediate goal. What I am 
talking about is increased student participation 
in student operated programs. This is not a call 
for the student body to rush out to become one of 
the "involved" or the "elite" or "poobah" or 
whatever tag one might hang on a student 
participation. .Rather, it is a means by which I 
think any ordinary student can expand his 
practical knowledge, learn a few insights and 
perhaps reach a new level of self-assurance. 
I imagine that many students are under the 
mistaken impression that a person must "know 
someone on the inside" to become involved in 
any particular activity. Even worse, many students are perhaps apprehensive about joining some activity cold, due to fear about feeling insecure or out-of-place. I suffered from this "disease" before I finally got untracked by joining the Busint>ss Rt>view staff. 
The sad part of the examples above is the waste of valuable man-power in the college of business, or for that matter throughout the whole University Community. It seems over the last two or three years, we have be~ome a withdrawn student body. Perhaps this was caused by failure to achieve anything critically important to the students. Whatever the reasons, we can not permit these past failures to eause a further withdrawal. 
My own personal experience working for the 
HPvil'w has broadened my general outlook and has given me a chance to greatly expand my range of friends. But most important it has offered diversity from the usual Monday through 
Friday classroom situation. 
lessons and responsibilities 
Thf' Notre Damf' Business Review is most 
likely not on the lips of those reading this article. 
In fact, the Review almost died in 1970. At the 
present time, we are trying both to upgrade the 
quality of the journal and also increase the 
student awareness of our efforts. Whatever our 
success this year, and for those working on the 
staff in the future, the lessons learned while 
attempting to reach our goals will remain 
forever with us. And the most important thing is · that we will have made the effort. 
And this is the very point many students are 
missing. The fact that one's accomplishments 
are small or insignificant matter not so much. It 
is the responsibilities encountered, and the new 
situations experienced that really make the 
activity worthwhile. 
Thus, we can not let ourselves be convinced 
that activism is bad. Nor can we convicne 
ourselves we do not have the time. The vast 
majorityof us do in fact have the time, and let's 
make the best use of it while we are here. 
.M:.'· 


..----~·-·-·----~­
Cheating at Notre Dame 
·----~-­
Thursday, October 26, 1972 the observer____1 1 ..;.. 


By Don Ruane 
Sometime between the time the present senior class was accepted, and the time it arrived on campus, its members received the official statement of the Student Honor Council. 
In affect, they received a copy of the Honor Code, a document which fell by the wayside shortly after today's seniors matriculated. 
The Honor Council wrote, "In an atmosphere of mutual respect, he (the student) does not take unfair advantage of another's material in any academic work, such as lab reports, term papers and examinations. He also knows that any violation of the Honor Code infringes on the in­tegrity of the whole community by undermining the spirit of honor;as a result, if he detects, dishonesty, he will take action in accordance with the principles outlined in the code ... 
It simply but formally recognized what already exists in principle--the responsibility of each student for his own actions and the good of his community." 
It is assumed, by Larry Johnston who is presently investigating cheating at Notre Dame for the Arts & Letters Student Advisory Council, that he Honor Code was ineffective when it came to stopping cheating. 
While his investigation is "not a response to a big crisis," he claims there are "snatches of it here and there," and personally knows term­papers being circulated. The biggest problem comes in large lecture classes such as general psychology or principles of economics. 
This doesn't eliminate the the problem in smaller classes however, "When it goes on you have no idea if it is done successfully," Johnston says. 
The only way under the Honor Code to know of any cheating was for a student to report it. "The Honor Code requires each individual's honesty, and willingness to report the dishonesties of others. Students just wouldn't report anything they saw. they didn't want to be finks," Johnston said. 
Johnston will probably be all year in preparing his conclusions and recommendations. Thus far he has compiled a thick file of information supplied by other colleges and universities, but he has just begun to querry Notre Dame ad­ministrators, faculty and students. 
definition 
Notre Dame has no precise definition of cheating, but Johnston has pieced together a working description. It includes intentionally taking or giving information during in class or take home exams; plagiarism; resubmitting previously used material; falsifying names, reports or other documents; and accumulating tests, lab reports and so forth to give or sell to others without prior consent of the instructor. 
In fact it is difficult to find any information about cheating and procedures for prosecuting any cases in any pamphlets, manuals or brochures at Notre Dame. The 1971-72 Academic Regulations pamphlet says the official regulations are on file at the Registrar's office. 
A check produced no such file. Registrar Richard Sullivan explained that since the Honor Code was dropped, the University has not had any formal regulations. Actually, Notre Dame is still working with the honor concept which is described in one paragraph of the May 1971 edition of Information for Incoming Fresh­men pamphlet. 
In part it reads, "As members of the academic community at Notre Dame the students have pledged themselves to accept the responsibility for hoporable conduct in all academic ac­tivities...The responsibility assumed by each student under the Honor Code is based on the ·mutual trust between himself and his in­structor." 

Devere Plunkett 
It also includes the idea that personal integrity will keep the individual in line and encourage one to assist fellow students to maintain the community integrity. 
This is a fine concept but what happens when a student is accused of cheating. Early in October an appeal was made to the Dean of Science after 
Are fake term 

papers used ? 
Competition has been drilled into us since high school, they are a waste of time and a make­work project, if I don't get anything out of it why should I do it, I could read the finished product and know as much as if I did it. 
But it goes against the purpose of education, it's immoral, it should be an exercixe in thought and give added perspective, one evil does not cure another. 
Will the T.A. catch it, will another student get the same copy, the class is too large and the professor won't have time to check, I have too much work to do. 
They are a legitimate outside source, they are not illegal, And thus go the basic arguments for and against the growing business of selling term­
• papers for profit. Outfits charge anywhere from two to five dollars a page for undergraduate papers, and more for graduate papers. Business is so great for some entrepreneurs that they refer people elsewhere. Larger organizations advertise nationally in various student publications, and request applications for campus representatives, much the way magazines such as Time and Sports Illustrated advertise. The Observer has received two requests for advertising space, one from a firm in Los Angeles, and one from a Boston based company. Both were refused. According to information supplied by the Los Angeles firm, it could be quite profitable to be a campus representative. The local dealer buys catalogued papers for $1.50 per page wholesale, and markets them at $2.50 per page, but only if he provides proof of advertising in his campus newspaper. Ifhe doesn't the wholesale price zips to $2.00 per page. If the salesman cannot sell a catalogued paper, he is urged to try and sell an original paper written to specifications. This costs the buyer $4.50 per page; unless it is for business, economics, science, technical or graduate course which go for $5.50. A minimum order for an original is $29, and the salesman takes .75 cents a page. The price may be higher per page if the order is not made so many days in advance, or if more than a certain number of sources must be checked. Most catalogued papers of the L.A. firm averaged seven to nine pages. 
The obvious danger of termpapers is that the same one will be sent to the same school. Although many companies claim this cannot happen, it has, and students have paid more than cash for the mistake. Other dangers also exist. 
Last spring the University of Wisconsin held up grades, transcripts and in some cases degrees .for 600 students suspected of buying termpapers from commercial sources. 
The Wisconsin attorney general had turned the records of one firm out of three that it had supoened, over to the university. 
Many universities and states are attempting to halt the sale of termpapers through the legal process. The California legislature introduced a bill last spring making it a misdemeanor and the New York state attorney general has in­stituted suits against several companies. 
Colleges which bring suit usually charge the companies with defrauding the students who don't use them, and those who support the university, and for undermining the academic process. ' 
Whether purchased termpapers are immoral or not will be debated for a long time. Thus far the only real benefit produced by the multi­million dollar industry that has been recognized by educators, is that it has thrown the whole system of competition for grades, the question of the instructots motives when he assigns papers, and whether termpapers are still the most ef­fective ways of teaching students to express themselves in writing; open to question and general discussion,· if not revision. 
In the meantime, most universities seem to treat cases involving commercial papers as a form of cheating and plagiarism. Professors have several methods of checking; including looking for style changes from previous writing, working with the student throughout the project in smaller classes, and by testing the student's knowledge of the contents of his paper. In larger classes many professors simply do not assign . papers to avoid what they consider cheating. 
two students were singled. out by their professor for talking during an exam. 
According to Dean Bernard Waldman, the present system for handling a case. s to let "P.ach department solve their problems·,iuternally.'' In response to the appeal, Dean Waldman created a three man committee to hear it. The body consists of a student and two faculty members from outside the involved department. 
The College of Engineering h~ts a similar system of handling cases by department, ac­cording to Dean Joseph Hogan. Engineering students first appeal to the profes ;;or, then the department chairman and occasionally to the dean. 
The college uses a modified honor system, "a voluntary honor code," the dean said. Each class is contacted by the enginc:ering honor society, and asked if it wishes to t se the honor system. If a particular course section says no, then it uses the proctoring system. 
Like engineering and science, tt,e College of Business Administration has not had any problems this year, or in recent ye-a:·s, according to Dean Thomas Murphy. 
However, there is some variation in procedure should a case arise. Again the st11dent should first deal with the instructor. Hov1ever, if the student refuses to admit cheating, or if the in­structor refuses to drop the charg,~, an appeal may be made to either the Dean of Siudents, or to the department chairman, according to Dean Murphy. 
Business faculty have the option of using an honor or proctoring system, just ~ s there is a choice in appeal procedures, simp!) because, as Dean Murphy said, "There is nothing written." 
Thus far the honor system has been a good experience for the busin_ess college!. The only problem, as Johnston said, is that students didn't want to report another student. 
The College of Arts & Letters also varies in some ways from the others. Its procedure in­cludes a "review committee," set up and staffed by members of the involved dep~ rtment, ac­cording to Dean Devere Plunkett. 
He said there are usually some instances of cheating each semester, but it its not to any degree indicating serious dege:1eration of academic honesty within the college. 
It frequently takes the form of p: agiarism in papers, according to the dean, when students quote large amounts of material, wilhout proper footnoting, from authors with whom the professor is familiar. 
to each his own 
Each college has a fom of cheating peculiar to its curriculum. Engineering and Science are more likely to find cheating on lal• reports or during in class exams because they -ire problem oriented. 
In business, it is probably a crosl: between in class exams because much of business is problem oriented, and plagiarism, because papers are extensively used, according to Dean Murphy. 
Arts & Letters makes much use of papers and reports, thus leaving room for plagiarism. 
In any case, the problem is de:ecting and correcting the situation. While it appears that Notre Dame does not have a widespread problem, it is difficult to be sure. According to the various deans, there has been very little reported cheating, but the question;; should be raised as to whether cheating only involves the more obvious forms such as pl~tgiarism and trading answers during an exam,; OJ' whether it includes the above as well as the forms included in Johnston's working definition, and whether the students and University want t<• draft and enforce any rules. 
-..·•1''.
i 
-:· 
::..­
Bernard Waldman 
·---------~--------------­
--~------~·~-------------~ -~--­

Demise of the Honor Code 

by Jim Ferry 
Starr Reporter 
After the demise of the Notre Dame Honor Code in 1969, the University Board of Trustees requested that the Student Faculty Senates form a committee to investigate the collapse of the Code and to search out possible alternatives. In reponse to that request, the University Com­mittee on Honor was formed last spring and Professor Edward Vasta of the English Department was chosen to chair it. 
"We're trying to get down to the theoretical reasons why we can't have an honor system here at Notre Dame," commented Dr. Vasta last week. "For a Catholic university, this is of course, quite uncomfortable." 
In a letter wtitten in the spring of 1972 to Professor Harvey Bender of the Biology Department, Vasta explained why the old Honor Code failed: 
why code failed 
"The Code, the campus, and the world changed 
drastically between the Code's beginning in 
September, 1964, and its end in February, 1969. 
During its life the Code was never passive or 
stagnant; its effectiveness increased steadily 
during the first three years, only to decline 
rapidly in the last year-and-half." 
"The immediate cause of its death lay with the 
students charged with safeguarding it: The 
Student Honor Council." 
"The first three Councils were secure about 
the Code's purpose, about its means, and about 
its service to the community; working con­
fidently and steadily,theybrought the Code to a 
fully evolved form in three years." 
"But the last two Councils were suddenly 
unsure of the Code's justification. These 
students--meditative, morally scrupulous-­worried about the ethics of being judge of fellow students." "The last Council found itself in such a moral 
quandery that it refused to continue unless the student community committed itself unequivocally to the Code in a new referendum. To precipitate such a referendum they resigned t>n masst'. The referendum never came and the Code was dead." 
Vasta went on to write that the Faculty Ad­visory Council, of which he was a member, "must also share the responsibility of the Code's failure." 
He went on to explain why student and faculty support for the code was not unanimous. 
code ill-suited 
"In significant ways, the Code itself was ill­suited to the situation. Although created and maintained by students, it was an authoritarian structure, an establishment institution, based on a type of community which did not actually exist. 
It sought to legislate morality for a group in which each individual was conscious of himself as a moral center. The Code also sought to restrict a virtue of wide applicability to the narrow and exclusive limits of student cheating, as if this area were separable from the many other areas in which honesty should also apply." 
He added "that the times were against such an effort as the Code." 
Then the Honor Committee was formed. The Committee members were appointed by the Provost at the urging of the Board of Trustees. 
The Committee is representative in that all segments of campus life are represented in the membership of the Committee. 
Students, Faculty, and Administratic>n are included in Honor Committee membership. The Committee recently voted to admit a woman student to the committee. Approval is pending from the Provost's office. 
Vasta stated that "the question of whether cheating in the classroom takes place outside the context of dishonor reveals things that are happening outside on campus." 
He went on to enumerate the causes of student cheating. Examining the problems of large classes, overcrowded conditions, inconsistencies in faculty procedure and expectations, and the intense pressure upon students to sucdeed, Vasta spoke of the overall dishonor that can be found at Notre Dame. 
"These are things that go on all over the campus. Can you isolate cheating? Both faculty and students take liberties with library books. $70,000 was spend last year replacing unreturned books." 
"With such widespread practices of dishonor found on campus, can you expect students to be honorable? These were the questions we were first faced with last spring." . 
"That led us to the stage where we asked ourselves 'whether or not the problem on one hand is policing cheating and letting all the other stuff go on, or on the other hand, do we need to develop a new educational standard?" 
courses of action 
Three points of view are held by Committee members. 
The first point of view called for a con­centration upon cheating, making and enforing a new honor system. Dr. Vasta felt that the Committee rejected this option. 
The second opinion calls for a "revamped basis for educational outlooks," This new basis would provide for an outlook where cheating would be eliminated because cheating would be "inconsistent with the circumstances of education." This outlook would "get to the circumstance on a campus-wide level," and would call for a "change in the attitudes of students towards their own education." 
"Such changes would also have their impact on the faculty and would reduce dishonorable actions on their part," said Vasta. 
The third opinion has not yet been presented. Vasta felt that it will argue on the basis of a morality, expressing a moral philosophy. 

Thursday, October 26, 1972 the observer 
13 
SMC student council passes open lobbies 

providing that "security is now 
residents. 'The evaluation had better be
by Mary Janca 
the responsibility of all the "If Security can get this thing good.. .if this looks bad, they
cleared up within the next few
members of the community, and \1 on'T consider anything else,"
Saint Mary's Student Affairs 
not the exclusive dominion of the days, possibly it will begin next Welte stated, referring to the
Council passed the 24-hour open 
Hall Directors or Security." week," explained Welte. proposed "male visitation."
lobbies proposal on an ex­
Since this proposal is ex­
perimental basis Wednesday The new policy will go into effect 
perimental, she said, it will not
afternoon, thus insuring that for all dorms as soon as the halls 
have to be sent to the Board of
there will be open lobbies for the are approved by Security, and in 
Regents for approval until IV iss Mulaney, Dean of Students,
remainder of the semester. particular, the first floor of 
January or February. S4~conded the motion, and it was
Dr. Bambenek, member of the Regina. If great difficulty is 
During Christmas vacation, carried unanimously by voice
Student Affairs Council and the found in securing Regina, stated v,Jte.
however, a fall evaluation of
Science Department, moved that Sue Welte, Student Body V.P., 
the open lobbies is to be made.
the proposal be passed, another alternative that could be Welte: evaluation better be good 
Observer subscriptions tabled by SMCI council 
was 'An Tostal Weekend,'' which Council, which consists of the 22
by Mary Janca ment to pay the $2600 bill, while Government. Each student, rather 
according to Steve Jaselnick, No1.re Dame Hall Presidents, as
other believed that each student will be responsible for her own
SMC Student Assembly refused Coordinator, is tentatively we: I as 4 from Saint Mary's. The
should pay for a subscription, if subscription.
to allocate student government scheduled to be held on the last HP C wants SMC to share some of
she desired, and that the money SMC's Student Government's J
funds for the Observer for SMC weekend in April. The event is the costs of the event.
previously allocated to the Ob­own budget and an estimation of
students' subscribtions yesterday. spol!_~red by the Hall President's
server should go to another cause. expenses and income was
The Student Assembly had tabled 
Student Assembly, after much reviewed. The current balance on
the $2.00 per student subscription 
discussion unanimously passed a hand was cited at $10,253 while
proposition at the two preceeding 
proposal that a $2.00 subscription Student Government plans to leave 
meetings on October 4 and 11. 
slip be placed in the second approximately $16,393 when the
Assembly members stated that 
semester bill, so that the $2600 current administration ends its
their constituents had mixed 
needed for the Observer will not be term in office.
views. Many students, they ex­
given to them by the Student Also discussed at the meeting
plained, wanted Student Govern-
on dropping youth fares 
CAB decision 'not final' 
travel advantages are being
by David Rust even though recent increases have 
utilised. TWA, for example, while 
Staff Reporter been made, and combined with the 
still selling youth fare cards, has
Trans World Airlines 
confidence of most airlines that 
initiated a discount book and travel 
representative-on-campus Dan 
they will be able to fill planes with 
brochure system, this book­
Sheehan. responding to an article 
full-paying paasengers" are the 
brochure being given to holders of
in the Observer of Oct. 16 con­
primary factors behind the push 
United and American airlines, as
cerning the abolition of youth 
for abolishment according to 
well as TWA, youth fare cards.
fares, said today that the Civil 
Sheehan. 
But, added Sheehan, if 
Aeronautics Board's decisii:m "is 
student fares are eliminated, "It 
not final." 
will have a very bad, harmful 
"The article written on Oct. 16 
effect on the domestic youth air 
about the abolishment of the youth 
travel market." 
fare." said Sheehan, "has caused 
From 20 to 30 per cent of the 
quite a bit of confusion among 
major airlines' travel market is 
students who are planning to fly 
the 25 years of age and under 
home Thanksgiving and Christ­
segment of the population, said 
mas. and think they won't be able 
Sheehan. "This is the fastest 
to fly on youth fare." 
growing segment of the air travel 
The Obsl.'rver said in its article 
market. Projection figures have 
that the C.A.B.had made upits 
shown that by 1980 <if the youth
mind to cut out the set of discounts fare is left undisturbed), those 25 which has been allowing millions 
and under may account for 50 per
of students reduced rates, and said 
cent of airline business." 
the decision would probably come 
Sheehan concluded that in mid-November. "Abolition will really slow the 
Sheehan argues that, from the 
growth. Students will look for 
information he has through TWA, 
cheaper means of tranportation."
airlines personnel in Chicago and 
The only solution to meet the 
travel bureaus, the C.A.B. has not 
probably youth fare cut's arrival,
yet absolutely decided on abolition. 
advised Sheehan, will be in group
However. these same sources 
and charter flights.
arE> of the opinion that a decision 
"Even though these have to be 
will come sooner or later to outlaw planned several months in ad­the youth fare. In any ca~. they vance," said Sheehan, "it's more agree. said Sheehan, that it can't to (the students') advantage to try 
come before Jan. 1 of next year. 
charters or group flying." Rates The reasons for this abolition are for groups are usually 80 per cent more than those reported in the of r~ular costs, explainedObse•·nr. The Oct. 16th article Sheehan, and charters are claimed as the reason that the "sometimes much lower." C'.A.B. believed youth fares to In the interim, while airlines 
constituteanunjust discrimination. wait and watch for developments"Overhead costs of running in the C.A.B. on the youth fare airlines due to inflation without issue, different systems for con­
corresponding rises in air fares tinuation of some kind of youth air 

*Prizes for best costumes *Fun and games *Bring a date 
*Festivities begin at 8:00 ~:,:,N~a~::s~lili--.-li'­

wastUnaton 
Sheehan commented onthe "unjust discrimination" aspect of the C.A.B. decision to cut out youth f11res. "That's a whole different issue." said Sheehan. "I believe it will have to be settled in the courts." 
A ALUMNI CLUB 
Thursday Nite Special
•
USHERS GREEN STRIPE SCC>TCH 25¢ This Scotch Runs Special 8-12 
JACK WHIT~OOL SHARK 
Wil demonstrate at the club from 8:30-12:30 Open Thurs. 8-12 A REMEMBER HAPPY HOUR FRIDAY (4-5:30 15~ Bee:!'-)
• 
YES Tickets on sal~e tommorrow! 
9:00 at ACC Ticket Office. 3:00 Fiesta Lounge Tickets: $5.50, 4.50, 2.75 

Hair Styled As You Are Accustomed To Having It Done In Y~:>ur Home 
City free hair analysis 
tall for appointments--259-7679 
student rates 
132·1 E. McKinley Hwy.--Mish. 
Mon., Tues. & 
2112 mi. east of T&C Shopping Center 
Wed. 
STUDENT UNION SOCIAL COMMISSIOf\1 PRESENTS 
Doctor of POOLOLOGY Joel(. White 
INTERNA TIO~LL Y KNOWN FAJ'IAOUS 
POCKET BILLIARD AND TRICK SHOT ARTIST 
has attained high runs of 3 J9 in POCKET BILLIARDS J47 in SNOOKER (Perfect Gam1:o) 
J2 in 3-CUSHION BILLIARDS 
See his FREE exhibition TOD1\Y 3:30-5:30 LaFortune Billiards Room 8:30-10:30 Senior Bar (Members Only) 
the observer Thursday, October 26, 1972
14 


.. 
apple sauce!!! 
BOONE'S FARM, MODESTO, CALIFORNIA 
MOD needs :more students 
A plea for student assistance has been made on behalf of the March of Dimes by Campus Coordinator 
Al Brenner. ' 
The annual collection at two home football games has suffered due to lack of student involvement he said and the Texas Christia~ game will be the final collection. 
"In the past several years we have usually had thirty to forty volunteers, but last week we only had four volunteers," Brenner said. Inclement weather and the children's ticket program were offered as probable reasons by Brenner. 
The March of Dimes con­centrates its funds and resources in birth defect prevention and handicapped children. Research includes study in the areas of mental retardation, sickle cell, and rubella diseases. Brenner pointed 
out that the amount raised last year was just enough to buy this year's poster child, Damian, a pair of arms. These artificial limbs must also be replaced every year. 
Brenner was quick to note that it is difficult to feel that one is helping anyone. "It's hard to get 

FSAC on food v.raste 

people to sympathize but they are touching and helping someone," he said. 
The student effort is in con­juncti?n ~ith the St. Joseph County orgamzatwn. The overall aim is to provide many more children like 
Damian with  the  results of  new  
research.  
Any  volunteers willing  to  help  

with the collection of donations should report to the Great Hall in front of O'Shaughnessy between lOam and game time this Satur­day. Brenner offered his phone number, 3666, for any questions. 
CLRSSIFIEiD RDS 
by Jerry Bradley Staff Reporter 
The Food Services Advisory Committee met yesterday af­ternoon in the faculty dining room and laid the groundwork for a campaign to eliminate waste in the dining halls. 
Six students met with Edmunc. Price and five other cafeteria staff members for the fifth official session. Mr Price presented the group with itemized lists of food and utensils costs. He stressed the importance of reducing food wast and pointed out that if a student wastes two glasses of milk a day it costs the Food service$22.20a year. 
Price also revealed that the price will increase 2 cents a gallon which will add an additional $5,000 to the expenses. He noted that "This is their food and they paid for it and if you wasteit it's like throwing away your own money." 
Price mentioned a few of the benefits that could be provided if the students were to economize. He stated that they could "provide more expensive items for the students." A successful economy 
NEED WHEELS?
program could help keep the university food rates the same in the future. Also price mentioned 

WANTED
the possibility of an additional special dinner. 
Need G.A. TCU tix, call 234-6802. 
Need ride to Philly for Navy game. Will share expenses. Can
The committee plans to print up 
posters with slogans and facts 
leave Friday. Call 4151.
explaining the waste problem. Signs will be scattered in the 
Need 6 gen adm TCU tickets, 
Frank 8533, Neal 6766.
cafeterias reminding the students 
not to waste food and drink. 
2student or 3 gen adm tics needed for TCU game, Lisa . 4556 
Within the next few weeks a 
Desperately need ticketsfor TCU
WSND interview will be presented 
game. Please call 3377 now!!! 
with Price and a student on the committee. 
Need 4 general admission tickets for TCU. Need not be together.
Price also released plans for 
Ca II John 1605.
buying compactors for the rubbish 
REDT-A-EAR 
Wanted: garage to rent near camp~s, Pat 8422.
depositories next year if the budget 
permits. He also pointed out that 
Charter Rentals
the Food Service burns rubbish for 
Need ride to Cleveland on Friday,
Mr. Honda
other campus departments. Price 
Oct. 27th. Call Marybeth 4391.
50715 U.S. 31 N.
added that the Health Officers are 
272-4484 
Need ride to Ohio turnpike exit 8
aware of the problem. 
Marv Borr Toyota 
and back weekend of Oct. 27, 
18185 St. Rd. 23 
Marianne 4611. 
72~080
Price noted that many students 
I SEEK JUST ONE gen. ad­
• 
mission TCU ticket. Call Paul
are unware of their privilege to 
AS LOW AS 
6167.
dine wherever they please. Anywhere from 100 to 150 more 
Need ride to O'Hare Friday morning, please. Ken 1343. 
$5. 96~!~ 
2418 S. Michiga
students eat on the west side. Next .._____287-1569 
r 
Wanted: 2 general admission 
TCU tickets. Call Greg 3683.
seme~ter the committee may 
reassign· the 180 residents of 
2 girls need ride to Philadelphia
Howard Hall from the west side to 
weekend of Nov. 4, will share
the east side. 
expenses. 4635. 
Driving to Navy game? If so 1 need a ride to Ph illy, New York or vicinity, able to leave Nov. 1, will 
share expenses, Paul 7861. 
Need TCU tickets -general ad­mission call 233-9032 evenings. 
2 Miami GA needed, call Don 7471 or 234-6267.
Never to laugh or love... Need ride to Exit 9 Ohio turnpike, Oct. 27. Marc 6832. 
Need apartment for second semester, able to move in in December. Call Fred 1487.
nor taste the summertime? Need 2 GA tix for Texas Christian game, call 4978. 
Need ride to Columbus 0. Nov. 3, Jan 4679. 
Need ride for 2 to Cleveland. Call Dan 8810. 
PERSONAL 
To· the sender of pink carnations: thanks for your condolences, but how about some more clues? Love, your Burger "queen for the 
day" 
jpb­wish you had been there, love! djm 
LOST AND FOL'ND 
t.Qst: a black switchblade, please c~ 2164 It is a present from my mo"'. 
lAhoever received my Meat Squad shirt in their laundry, please call me. 1348; laundry number 90641. 
NOTICES 
I 
I 

THE BOAR'S HEAD 

Opening in November A young organization with a new concept in dining, featuring a limited steak and lobster menu. We are now completing con­struction of our building which 
Knights OF Columbus 


uses old English decor and five fireplaces to add to a warm an elegant atmosphere. Accepting Applications for cooks, bartenders, waiters, waitresses cashiers, dishwashers, dining room work. We'll be hiring about 60 full and part time people for our opening crew. An ex­cellent opportunity for a "fun" and interesting job for the school year and summer. Please apply in person at the 
BOAR'S HEAD 31 North -next to Howard John­son's Restaurant. 9 am to 6 pm. Ask for Henry or Bill 
NOTICES 
CALIFORNIA CLUB CHRIST­MAS CHARTER SIGNUPS. This wed. thr.u Fri, and next Mon & Tues 1-3pm at the Travel Agency. 
Beaux Arts baiL November 4, 
9:30 pm -'2 am, creative attire, band, refreshments, tickets $4.00. Everyone W\:'lcome. 
Morrissey Loan fund. Borrow up to $150. La Fortune basement. Open 11:15-12:15. Monday thru Friday. 
HELP the helpless unborn, with time, money, or both. Right-to Life, Inc. 233-4295. 
Piano lessons: Call Eddie Sears 232-6882; $5 per hour, $3 per half hour. 
Dressmaking and alterations, phone 233-2441. 
Small. informal weekend with a unique group of American Franciscans dedicated to Christian unity. Nov. 10-12, call 1371 or 8814. 
Typing: essay-term paper-thesis­desertation-technical or research report we do them professionally, efficiently, and reasonably. Expert Secretarial Service. 233­9466 or 233-3257. 
FOR RENT 
Groovy room for rent. Close to ND; bus; call 289-6581. 
Rooms-nice home, close to town, for football weekends, $6.00 per person. 232 2989 after 6 pm. 
FOR SALE 
1 TCU student ticket for sale, call Bill 1244. 
For sale, 2 Navy tickets, cheap . 6841. 
STITCH has incense, handmade belts, purses, candles, earrings, and clother. Corner of South Bend Ave. and St. Louis Blvd. Phone 232-4014. 
Westinghouse Compact Refrigerators. 4.4 cu. ft. capacity, factory warranty, free delivery. Call now! Wynne's Refrigeration Co. 234-0578 or 232­2618. Ask for Tom. 
Stills tickets: on floor, rows 4 and 
6. Call Neil or Paul, 3232 or 3241. 
Must sell: Dorm -size refrigerator 
2.1 cu. ft. Excellent condition, sacrifice. $45.00 Call 1365 after 6:30. 
Several good couches and chairs . clearance prices. Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. 
For Sale: 1, 2 or 3 general ad­mission TCU tickets. Call 1595. 
Deadline for all•dassified ads is 
1:00 pm the day before publication. All ads must be placed in person, and must be prepaid. 
"-" 

~-----------------------­
the observer Thursday, October 26, 1972
16 
Drew Mahalic -­no longer naive 
by Vic Dorr the academics, the campus life, "It was just a case," he ad­
and the coaches that I have. I was mitted." of them having the ball in 
Drew Mahalic, by his own ad­lucky. I know." four-down territory. They were mission. was a bit naive when he Mahalic. a 6-4, 213 pound soph­just making the big fourth down Pnrolled at Notre Dame. more. began the fall practice play. 
The Birmingham, Michigan, sessions as an outside linebacker, "Missouri executed perfectly,"native came to South Bend with an and as late as a month before the he continued. "We didn't force impressive list of high school start of the season; was far away them to make mistakes, and theyfootball honors like High School from a starting position. But knee didn't commit a single turnover. It All-American and Michigan injuries to Tom Devine and Mike was a case of everything goingPlayer of the Year, and he came to Webb moved Mahalic to his inside­right for them, and nothing going South Bend largely because of the -or "swing--slot and a pre-season right for Notre Dame. But I don't brand of football played by the shake-up saw him emerge with the think our defense was flat. We l''ighting Irish. starting role. knew they had the potential, but 
"I wanted to play with the best," nothing went right for us."
"I was moved to swing backerhe said. "and Notre Dame was the two weeks before the season
best. That was the most important Though the loss to Missouri sent
opened," he said, "and I've been 
reason for my coming here, and NO's national rankings reeling, it 
there ever since. The swing
there was no question at all about left the morale of the Irish squad
position is a combination of the 
mv choice. But I didn't realize that unharmed, and it left Mahalic still 
middle and outside linebacking
there were other factors involved. optimistic as to the outcome of the ' ~ \
positions. I have the pass
I came here as a naive high school '72 season. ' ·.. ' ~t .' ' 
responsibility of an outside backer, 
kid. and I didn't realize that I'd get "Our spirit hasn't dropped at 
hut I'm in on the action like a Drew Mahalic, NO's sophomore linebacker
all," he said. "It was excellent in 
middle backer. It's a dual type of 
pre-fall. and it hasn't dwindled yet. ......-.-...-.·.·············--.-.-.-.·,················-·-.-.·.·.-.-.-...-.-.....-........
Iinebacking position." And as far as the season goes, Jim Don a ldson..............·.··~·~·~·~·~·~·~·:·:-:.:.:.:·:·:·:·:·:·:·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=·=································· College Stats Drew credits linebacker coach nothing has really changed. Most 
GPorge Kelly with his smooth
TOT .U OFFENSE of the top teams still have to play
transition from outside to swing
G Plavs Yds. AVG. Pach other. and this year's national 
The Irish Eye 
Artzona St. . . 6 485 2984 497.3 backer. and his transition from 
champion could well be a teamthat 
Nebraska 6 503 2885 480.8 reserve to starting status has gone 
has lost. I don't think any of the top 
Oklahoma. . . 5 404 2374 474.8 
So. Calif. .. 7 555 3234 462.0 equally well. teams will be undefeated when the Iowa St. .. 5 394 2223 4446 "Really, there haven't been too season's over--and I think that if =·=·=··············.....·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:···:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:······.....·.·;·;·;·:·:·=-Sports shorts
..························-·-·-·-···-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·····-·-· ·~· ........················-···-·-·-· 
UCLA 7 486 3040 434.3 many problems, and I'd say that a we play well, and win the rest of The injury jinx is still hoyering around Cartier Field. The Irish grid NotrP DamP .. .5 300 2145 4.."9.0 lack of game experience has been our games-then we can win it." squad suffered almost an injury a day last week while preparing for
Texas Tech .6 438 2553 425.5 
the biggest thing. I was very
7 517 2975 425 0 "Personally, though, I'm the Missouri and the situation has improved only a little this week. 
N.C. Slate 
nervous going into the first couple
Florida St 7 522 2961 423.7 kind who likes to take them one at Co-captain Greg Marx was the latest to be sidelined, sitting out Wed­
of games, but my confidence has
RUSHING a time. I don't like to look to the nesday's practice with a sprained ankle' Although his ankle may not be 
G Ruslles Yds. Avl(. heen built since then. I don't think future because that's the way you at full strength, the big defensive tackle said that he would "definitely
7 436 21172 3HI.7
UCLA being a sophmore has hindered me hurt your present day." play" Saturday. 
Oklahoma 5 332 1904 lll0.8 
at all."
Oklahoma St. 6 416 2048 345.7 This week's "present play," for Eric Penick appears ready to go against Texas Christian but one of his New Muico 6 394 20:!5 337.5 But the progress of Mahalic--and Notre Dame, means a clash with running mates, Darryll Dewan, is nursing bruised ribs and his status is 
Ohio St. 5 335 1632 326.4 
the progress of the Irish defense in the potent TCU Horned Frogs, and questionable.
Vale 4 236 1245 311.3 
general--was interrupted last for the Irish defense it means a Notre Dame's wide receivers are still plagued by a variety of aches and 
Arizona St. 6 329 1844 307.3 
Notre Dame 5 298 1531 306 2 weekend when the Missouri Tigers fifth straight week of triple-option pains. Willie Townsend has been working out with the first team this Michigan 6 386 JR02 300.3 hung a 30-26 upset on the offense. week but is bothered by his sprained knee. Jim Roolf, who played with a Texas Tech 6 340 1765 294.2 previously unbeaten Irish. Mizzou "In TCU," said Mahalic, "We'll broken finger against Missouri, had to have it reset this week and Bobby 
PASSING 
AU. Com. Pel. \'ds. Avg. controlled the line of scrimmage be facing another wishbone team. Washington is still kept out of action by his shoulder injury. Va Tech l29 123 .537 1830 305.0 and gained key yardage through They're 4-1 --I think Arkansas was Talking about the rash of injuries plaguing his club, coach Ara Par­Flonda St 241 130 .539 1955 279.3 the air against the Irish "D", and the team to beat them--and their seghian said, "These things always seem to come in bunches. You don't Tex.-EI Paso 187 108 .578 1496 249.3 NO's sophmore linebacker could offense looks very good. Still, if we have any for a while, and then you suffer a whole bunch of them. It's 
Nebraska 154 119 578 J4R8 248.0 
230 123 .535 1435 239.2 do nothing but compliment the play the kind of game we're unexplainable." 
department. Huff has scored eight touchdowns, good for 48 points, while 
Thomas has booted six field goals and 18 points after touchdown for a 
total of 36 points.
Catching up with Willie Townsend 
help the younger player relax. mits, "and I don't know what's
Catching up with Willie Town­Townsend leads all Irish receivers with 12 catches, good for 167 yeards.
"l like to stay relaxed," says harder--waiting for someone like
send isn't easy -on or off the Quarterback Tom Clements' passing stats look like this at mid-season: 
Townsend of his multi-sports in-Tom to graduate or trying to
football field. 44 of 86 for 614 yards and two touchdowns. He's thrown seven in­
terest . "I don't like to get all replace him. But it doesn't matter
Notre Dame's junior split end terceptions. Clements has done well rushing, too. The soph field general 
wrapped up in one sport. Then it if you're behind somebody if you're 
and leading receiver is always has picked up 188 yards in 38 carries, a 4.9 average.
hustling -whether it be for Digger becomes football and studies, doing something you like to do." 
Devensively, linebacker Jim O'Malley tops the club with 67 tacks. 
Phelps' basketball team, where he football and studie~ .. I li~e to_ stay "If nothing else, you know what Jayvees at Home Friday is a team leader in the winter, or loose. By partic1patmg m a vou can do against your fellow Notre Dame's junior varsity football team will make its home debutwhether it just be on campus number of things, it helps keep teammates and at Notre Dame Friday at noon against Michigan on the artificial turf at Cartier Field. 
where Willie is studying electrical both your mind and your body that means 'a lot. We have to hav~ This will be the third game for Irish jayvees, who opened their schedule engineering. loose. "My scholarship doesn't the best prep team in the country. 
with a 17-7 win over Michigan four weeks ago at Ann Arbor but were"I don't think I'm a very dif­~.onfine me to ~ne s~rt." h~ adds, Some of these guys play as hard as beaten, 26-14, by Michigan State last Friday in East Lansing.
ferent person on the football field and my studies don t confme me if they were playing defense for the Freshman halfback Russ Kornman has been one of the top performers than I am on the basketball court to my books. Everyone isn't a other team on Saturday af­for the Irish this fall, rushing for 162 yards and touchdowns. 
or on campus," Willie explains. "I football player or a book worm." ternoons. Working in practice is go through things the same ways -Football to Townsend is just one just like playing on Saturday Hockey Workouts Going Well hustling back and forth. Football way he expresses himself. sometimes." With the season opener just eight days away, Notre Dame's hockey
and basketball are a part of my "Football is something else to each Playing two major sports at team has been working hard and, according to coach "Lefty Smith,life. No matter what I'm doing, I individual," he explains. "I Notre Dame has made Townsend making good progress.
try to learn new things, try to take 
couldn't say meyself that it is a better at both. "The guys are coming on quite well," Smith said. "We're much care of myself, try to better violent sport. You get stuck -I "Basketball makes you a lot better defensively."
myself." 
really got stuck against Michigan quicker," Willie explains. "It The lines centered by John Noble and Paul Regan have both been sharp Townsend has been successful at State --but each individual is helps you co-ordinate your hands, in pre-season drills. Noble, until sitting out several recent practicesall those tings. Last winter, with expressing something. I don't call feet and eyes at once. Football with a bruised knee, has been between junior wings Eddie Bumbacco and Phelps trying to guide his young 
my expression violence. makes you a lot tougher. You Ian Williams. Regan centers for Larry Israelson and a much-improvedbasketball team through a difficult learn to dish it out as well as take Ray DeLorenzi. 
season, the new head coach said, "For me, at different times of 
it. Although I'm only 6-3, I can go
"Willie is the most inspirational the year I like to play different Hockey Tee-Shirts Available. 
against a 6-11 center in basketball 
guy on the team. He can't give any sports. In the spring, for instance, and control him a lot easier than I "Fanatics" tee-shirts are still availble at the pro shop of the ACC for less because he doesn't know how. I play a lot of tennis. A sport is 
would if I hadn't played a lick of $1.75. The flashy looking shirts are "de rigeur" for any hockey fans His attitude has been a great in­something you like to do. If you football." planning to sit with the Fanatics at Notre Dame's home opener,spiration to the team. The kids like doing something and you're November 5 versus Bowling Green. 
look up to him. He has pulled the relaxed, then it's not a task"' "From basketball, I've learned Where Are They Now Departmentteam together." Although Townsend was not a to use my peripheral vision more; 
Townsend is on another young regular last season, playing behind I can see and even hear a lot more Last year's cheer leading captain, Missy McCrary, was pictured in the team this fall, but his effect has All-American Tom Gatewood, his things." nationally sundicated Youth Parade column, written by Reba and been much the same. On road enjoyment of the game was not As far as Willie Townsend is Bonnie Churchill. Missy appeared in several photographs, demon­trips, he has been roomed with hindered. "I never had to play concerned, that's probably just as strating various exercises for cheerleaders, very prettily, and in national sophomore Eric Penick, just to behind anybody before," he ad-true off the field, too. championship style. 

Stanford 
California 252 123 .4R8 1611 230.1 Tigers on their performance. capable of--we'll stop them." 
Vtah St. 192 lOti .552 13~3 225.5 Rice ]69 86 .509 1110 222.0 s. Calif. 186 101 .543 1541 220.1 San Dlpgo St 158 90 .570 1320 220 0 
TOTAL OFFENSE 
..... G lds. Yd. PG Slr()('k. Va Tech 6 t811 301.8 Hull. Fla. St. 7 1814 259.1 .\dams. Utah St 6 1450 241.7 KellhiPy. UTEP 6 1317 219.5 .\mndsn. Iowa St. . 5 1054 210 8 Fouts. Ore. 7 1422 203.1 Humm. Neb. 6 1207 201.2 Boryla. Stan. 6 1201 200.2 Gadd. Race 6 999 199.8 Parr. Colgate 5 969 197.8 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
TCURugged The Horned Frogs aren't the type of club the Irish can play at half­strength. Texas Christian will bring a 4-1 record into its first-ever meeting with Notre Dame, the only loss coming to Arkansas, 27-13. And TCU led in that game until the fourth quarter. 
Looking at the Stats Although playing only slightly more than 20 minutes against Missouri, the Irish offense is still among the nation's leaders in rushing and total offense. Notre Dame stands seventh in total offense, averaging 429 years per game, and is eight in rushing, with a 306.2 ypg mark . With Penick out of action last week, Dewan moved within 28 yards of the soph speedster for the Irish rushing lead.Penick has gained 325 yards this fall, Dewan 297. Andy Huff's two touchdowns against Mizzou gave the senior fullback a 12 point edge on placekicker Bob Thomas in the individual scoring 
.... 




