On The Inside 

I
Coresidential dorms 
I
explored ••. pages 2-3 
j
Concession stand rules 
j 
...page 17 
l 
serving the notre dome -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 10 Thursday, September 21, 1972 • 
~ 
All but District 5 settled .. 
SLC representatives elected 

District 1 

Matt Cavanaugh District 2 



bv Jim Greese Observer Staff Writer 
Students elected Jim Hunt, Matt Cavanaugh, Floyd Kezele, Anthony Abowd, and Fred Giuffrida as , their representatives on the Student Life Concil yesterday. Representing 1924 voting students, they hola iive of the six district seats on the SLC The one district not represented is district 5. 
District 5, composed of Badin, Walsh, 
Sorin,  Dillon,  and  Alumni.  has  no  
representative  because the resi dents  of  
Badin  Hall  were  unable  to  vote  in  

yesterday's election. Due to a mixup the ballot box was left inside a locked room and no Badin residents were able to vote. 
Ed Ellis, Student Government Academic Commissioner, called for a special balloting to take place in Badin today The candidates for that district are Frank Devine, Dennis Etienne, and Rick Hilton. The results of the District 5 election will be made known immediately after the Badin election. 
The closest race was in District 3 be .­tween Floyd Kezele and Mike Hess. Representing Flanner and Grace halls, Kezele who was not available for com­ment, beat his opponent oy a vote of 251 to 230. 
Winning by the greatest margin was Fred Guiffrida in District 6. Taking 322 votes, Guiffrida 's nearest opponent was Jinm Roe, receiving only 88 votes Guiffrida also had no comment. In the off campus vote, Jim Hunt polled 55 votes, beating his nearest opponent Bob Saur, by 36 votes. 
Elected from District 2, Cavanaugh promised to keep in touch with the students and called this the "most important" aspect of his position. Citing last year as an example, he stressed the need for strong communication. Abowd, elected from District 4, said that he was "happy to get the chance to try to prove that the SLC works.'' 
District 6 Fred Giufrldda Jim Roe Joe Lipka 

District 1 Off Campus Total Jim Hunt 
55 
Bob Saur 

19 
Tim Schwartz 
10 
Other 

4 
District 2  Cavanaugh  St. Ed's  
Matt Cavanaugh  23  61  
Juan Manigolt  16  28  
Other  1  10  

District 3  Flanner  Grace  
Floyd Kezele  74  177  
Mike Hess  106  124  
tnher  12  25  

District 4  Zahm  Stanford  
Anthony Abowd  66  18  
Bill Mclean  86  60  
Dick Singsank  10  8  
Rick Eschman  5  10  
Other  12  3  

Breen-Phillips  Farley  Total  
1~  43  2~  
13  63  120  
10  17  38  

Total 251 230 37 
Keenan Holy Cross Total 
43  100  
27  8  
82  1  
3  0  
7  9  

227 
181 
101 18 31 

District 5 Dillon Sorin Alumni Walsh Badin Incomplete as yet 
Fisher  Pangborn  
69  37  
14  9  
7  12  

Morrissey  Lyons  Old College  
95  94  6  
47  5  7  
4  4  1  

Howard Total 26 ~322 
6 ~.. i\.
'· •
35 63
'• 
.. 
·~.~. 
.,. 
) 

ND security guard still hospitalized 
by Greg Aiello Observer Staff Writer 
Security officer Richard Biniasz' condition remains stable after being hospitalized after a hit-and-run accident last week, according to J. Arthur Pears, Director of Campus Security. 
Biniasz, also a student at Notre Dame, was hit last Friday night while patrolling parking Jot D-1 along Juniper Road with another student security officer. 
"The hospital tells me he is resting com­fortably," said Pears. "I suppose that means he's no worse than he was, but to me it doesn't mean he's any better." 
Biniasz sustained a fractured skull, a leg in­jury, and internal injuries from the accident.· 
"As of this moment we have no leads as to who did it,'~ commented Pears. No license number was obtained, but a Jlood descriotion of the car was: a 1968 or '69 blue-green Chevy Nova believed to be a hot-rod type with a raised back­end. Local police precincts have been alerted and are working on the case. 

Pears emphasized that the incident will not lead to any procedural changes in campus security. 
"No procedures need to be changed because there was no malfunction," said Pears. "The boys were carrying out their duties normally, they were well off the road, and and apparently these people went after them." 
Concerning rumors that Juniper Road is to be closed to the public, Pears said that the question is not under the jurisdiction of campus security. 
"That has to do with the University and the Chamber of Commerce/' he said. "It has nothing to do with me. If they close it, it would be 
convenient. If they don't we'll continue with no problems." 
l 
l ~ 
·1 
. 
•s.............~--------------------~~-·~~--ss-~.---~...........................................a ....
..s ~..scsssssss..sss................ 
Thursday, September 21, 1972

the observer 
Students react to coed dorms 
Dame coeducation, and that sucn by Jim Ferry an arrangement "is the only way ab..rver lnsit:~hl:
Observer Staff Writer to get out of the dating atmosphere eastern schools. We have about as view that "it wouldn't make any

Stu\lent reaction to the idea of that's still very prevalent on much of a chance as Annapolis." difference." Pat Keefe said that "Icoed clorms at Notre Dame is campus." They termed coed Notre Dame freshman Patty wouldn't change that much" andgenera&..v favorable, according to a housing as a way to "get over the Culler said she wouldn't "object," added that he didn't want it topoll ta)len by The Observer unnaturalness." "It would be very 
but that she "wouldn't live in one." "increase the price."
yesterday\afternoon. nice, and the towers could be made One junior stated his preference One student, who termed himself
When queried about the subject, coed by cluster." 
for the all-male environment in his "a fed up frosh from Lyons," said comments varied from ''I wouldn't 
hall. that if "we did have coed housing, want to live' in one" to "Should 
need coed living "I like things the way they are," we might .get new medicine chests 
come pretty soon" and "it's about was the opinion of Diana Wilson. and carpeting, but then it wouldtime". While· ,most of the com­
Maureen Lathers, a recent "Most girls like to run around in increase tuition like it did this
itumts were favorable to the idea, transfer student from Michigan curlers and cold cream." 
year."
many were ske.'ltical about the 
State said that "l:was in one last A vast majority of students Don Riordan, a Morrisseeychances of such a ~oposition. Art 
year, and now it's hard to meet doubted if coed housing had much senior, felt that he personallyMoher of Morr\ssey -~Hall said, 
guys on an informal basis. . It of a chance in the near future. would "like to see coed housing"
"Sure, we'll have ceed fialls, and· 
would make true coeducation Sophomore Bob Gumerlock felt but that he'd be "a little hesitant."
the North Pole will melt tonight." 
come a lot faster." that "a Board of Trustees thatSeveral "advantages" of· •. 
won't allow parietals after 2:00 AM
Jiving were repeatedly voiced By· One Domer, who preferred to be see woman as people
certainly won't allow coresiden­
those interviewed. The most identified as Boo, said that "the 
ce." 

''A lot of guys couldn't handle it. 
frequently mentioned was a people around here wouldn't like Give it four years. People couldn't "gradual breakdown of the rigid the expense or trouble caused by it guns and barbed wire cope with it now because of the~tructure of the'boy meets girls-­aU" but that it would "boost Eddie Farrell thought that "it deprived social situation. Let menNO & SMC dating game"' morale, increase willingness to was an excellent idea" but that as get used to the women, and let thelearn, and solve a lot of far as it being possible--"You've women get used to the university. 
communications psychological problems of the got to be kidding me. "people are Coed housing next year could force students around here." He added situations that people might be
"I think it would be a pretty good that "the people around here had a mature enough for It. It's a 
thing, mainly because the reaction fallacy that people our age are not. sorry for.
lot of them." on campus to girls is unreal and Perhaps the people in control "The image of Notre Dame is 
can only. be solved by better aren't mature enough."
its a coedplanet changing. Guys are going to act a 
communication with them," stated "We've been talking about all little more mature with women Fred Graver. "We have bad Students who agreed with the this for eight years," said grad around. Most guys would view it communications now because of concept usually added that coed student Dave Davis. "Badin and as 'living with broads' now, buthousing would be "practical" and Walsh are about as coed as you'reour lack of practical experiences." 
guys in three or four years will look 
that it -would make for a "more going to get, unless you put 
·~BOAC

SMC student Sue Beatty saw an upon it. as something that could
natural atmosphere on campus." machine guns and barbed wire 
opportunity to "see men as people seriously affect the rest of their
Frank Fransioli of Dillon Hall said around all the elevators." 
::UROPE and BACK

and for men to likewise see women lives . Attitudes are beginning to
that "it should be attempted" and 
an Incredible $190!

as people" in a coed h,1using deprived situation mature already."
that "after all, it's a coed planet."

situation. She added that "I'd be Most student reaction can be 
A different point of view was Alumni sophomore Don Bing 
{'all Clark for details

happy if we just had Notre Dame's typified by off-campus student 
presented by Tom Hastings, who thought that it's going to be awhile. Jack Joseph's remark: "I 
!83-8810 reaUy bad." said that "this place isn't ready for "We've only had coeducation for a wouldn't object to them." 
parietal situation, because ours is 


it yet." Sophomore Steve Barrett· short while. Reaction would at explained that "ND isn't ready for first be for such housing butspeed coeducation it yet. Boston College and alumni opinion will certainly be Georgetown are just now ex­against it. I think it might come. If 
Two Badin undergrads thought perimenting with ~oed housing and the student body got together and that coed housing should have been Notre Dame is anywhere from five worked for it. it might happen." instituted at the beginning of Notre to ten years behind a lot of the A few students expressed the 
Psyche Center serves coeds 
will be a greater number of women If further evaluation is indicated 
by Connie Greiwe 

using the services of the Psyche the student is given a small battery
Obst"rver Staff Reporter 

Center. of psychological tests enabling the staff to evaluate his problem atPsychological Services of Notre 
their semi-weekly meeting. The
Dame enters its sixth year of 
The center deals with minor student is then advised to attend
operation minus its only female 
obsessive thoughts and fears which either individual or group
staff member but with a whole new 
hamper the individual's normal therarpy.

group of potential residing female 
functioning. It does not "focus on
clientele. 
underlying personality disorders," 

Dr. Aren sighted a variety of
Aren added. 

emotional problems seen at the Dr. Sara C. Charles resigned center; "crisis in academic work, from her position as Notre Dame's relationships with other students," 
The services of the center can be

first resident psychiatrist to fur­
catagorized as either treatment or and more frequently, "apathy, 
ther her studies at the University alienation, and prolonged
consultation. students seeking

of Illinois Medical School. Father depression."
these service are referred to the

Ralph Dunn, CSB . Directm of 
center by faculty, hall personnel,

Psychological Services, and Dr. 
or come of their own initiative.

Charles Arens. Assistant Director Besides treating student will continue the operation of the patients, the center staff is center. Once a student enters the center, available for consultation with fac­
he is given a preliminary interview ulty. hall personnel, or student ·'to help him assess the dimension groups. The new clientele for 
of his proble~," Aren sai~-----------------,
Psychological Services are the 
undergraduate Notre Dame 
women, but Psychological Ser­
vices is experienced in dealing 
with female students. Services were offered to SMC women beginning in 1968. But according to Dr. Aren, "Many SMC women desiring psychological help were hesitant because they were easily sighted in the Psyche Center and ­afraid of the stigma some people associate with anyone seeking professional aid." He expects more women clientele to seek consultation with women now residing on campus and daily using the infirmary. 
According to psychological research, coed institutions of learning see a greater number of women using psychological ser­vices than men. Dr. Aren expects when the increase of women is equally proportionate to men there 
Naturalness is the Key i To Your Hair Style
Ot>ar N.D. Students. .. We would likt> to extend an invitation to you and inform you of our st>n·ict>s. We offer complete service in a relaxed at­mosphert>. 
-prt>cision cuts. Shags -R econd itionin g 
-Blunt cuts -Hair Straightening 
-Contint>ntal Hairstyling -Hair coloring 
-Hair Analvsis -Hair products 

\\'t> hope you take advantage of the opportunity for us to serve you in the near future. 
ALL SERVICES BY APPOINTMENT 

Ohe l'\)inJjammer 
HAIR 5TTLING FOR.DISCRIMINATING MIN & IIOYS 
1637 Lincoln Way W. Phone 232-6622 


JESUS RETREAT 
Date: Fri. Sept 22-Sat. Sept.23 
Time: 8:OOpm Fri-8: OOpm Sat. 
a JESUS RETREAT is a 24hr. retreat offering 
participants an opportunity to learn about 
JESUS to learn what it means to be a Christian, and to experience a life of power and hope, in Him. 
Call: 282-2500 days 288-9988 evenings sponsored by 
TRUE HOUSE COMMUNIT 
--a local Catholic Charisma tic Community at Notre Dame 


Ladies of Columbus 
Hospitality and Organizational Meeting 
Thursday Sept. 21, 1972 7:30 p.m. 

3

Thursday, September 21, 1972 the observer 
Coed residence surveyed 
Co -residential housing proves popular 
by Patti Shea 
Observer Staff Writer 

The increasing popularity of co­residential dorms is evident at four of Notre Dame's neighboring universities. Housing directors and deans at Northwestern, Marquette, St. Louis and Michigan State Universities report general satisfaction and enthusiasm on the part of both students and ad­ministrations toward the co­residential housing existing on those campuses. 
These co-residences range from inter-connecting buildings at most schools to housing complexes at Northwestern where man and 
(THE OB..rERVER.) 
woman undergraduates live on the same floor. They are usually new and a few are still in experimental stages. 
Marquette University opened its first co-residential housing this fall placing men and women students on alternatve floors of a 13-floor dormitory. A!though there are restrictions on intervisitation hours at the university, the Marquette students seem to be enthused and receptive to the new residence style, according to Howard Devine, the assistant dean of students. 
Similar in arrangement to the co­residence at Marquette, St. Louis University's co-residential hall is 
Co-residential dorms 
Search for coed dorm arrangement 
by Bill Betz Observer Staff Writer 

Investigations into coresidential housing have begun, reported Fr. John Flannigan, associate vice­. president for student affairs. to the first meeting of the hall rectors. "We must look at student housing from a broad spectrum, of which ,the co-ed dorm is only one 
alternative," the director said. 
"There are many sides to this 
question other than the "salt and 
pepper" arrangement that so 
many students associate with co­
residential living. 
"We'll look into the possibility of co-ed town-houses, co-ed floors, co­ed sections and a number of other alternatives." The director stressed that the main concern of the administration is to better the total atmosphere within the residence hall. "We're looking for an environment that will best meet the needs, in every area, of our stu­dent body," he said. 
For the present, Father Flan­nigan commented that he would be investigating the question, looking at how it has worked other places, seeing how the students here feel about the issue and generally uncovering as many of the pros and cons of co-ed living as he and the other rectors and ad­ministrators are able. 
As for now, the Administration, hall rectors and hall presidents know nothing definite, which means that Notre Dame students should not look for an opposite-sex 
roommate  in  the  near  future.  
However,  }<'ather  Flannigan  
promised  to  keep  the  lines  of  

communication open and ex­pressed the hope that all concerned students will keep in touch with him on this matter. 
in its second year of operation. "The students like the new style of th~ hall very well, and we have had virtuaHy no problems so far," 
remarked Mary Bruemer, dean of women. 
In fact, the St. Louis University administration dropped the last year of the original two-year probationary period for the new co-ed haH, and is looking into possible expansion in co-residential housing in the future. 
Expansion plans, though are not reported by Northwestern and Michigan State, where co-residential dorms have' been continuaHy established throughout the past four years. 

At Michigan State there are four co-residential haHs set up on an alternate floor basis. A new university policy permitting 24­hour visitation in selected dorms though, has reduced student demand for more co-residential housing, according to Robert Underwood, residence manager. "Many of the students are looking to a more conservative life style," added Underwood. "They want more privacy and more solitude than the coed dormitory aHows." 
William Templemeyer, assistant 
dean of students at Northwestern 
which has the largest number and variety of co-residential halls of the four reported a great deal of student satisfaction with the present sxstem. Co-residences at Northwestern fall into three categories of adjoining buildings, alternating floors, and the newest housing complex where men and women students live on the same floor. 
Even though Tempelmeyer cited a high demand by students for more co-residential housing, he­cautioned, "The coed residence is not for everyone and the university realizes that students must have an option." 






Hall presidents favor co-residential dorJm 
by Greg Ryan Observer Staff Writer 
Hall presidents interviewed yesterday felt that co-residential housing is a necessary part of personal growth on campus and ­fav~ed its inception in the near future. 
Althaugh plans were turned down by the administration last year for a coresidential dorm on campus, new plans will be sub­mitted this year by halls for consideration of one co-ed hall on campus. 
Three major ideas being discussed are: the "salt and pepper" approach, which means that womens' rooms will be scatt­ered throughout a hall; the separation by alternating floors of men and womens' rooms; and the use of interconnecting 
· Keenan and Stanford HaHs. 

Most hall presidents agree that Notre Dame needs the addition of coresidential dorms to aid in personal growth. 
Farley president, Chris Singleton stated, "I feel that the University's commitment to coeducation is meaningless unless we have a coed dorm in the near future. I feel that the experience coming out of that fits in with the Notre Dame tradition, which is that residence halls are the center of campus life and the development of the individual." ­Ron Pajap, resident of Fisher Hall, added that it is "more of a real social situation that isn't existing right now." 
Many students felt that male-female relationships should be taken out of a strictly dating situation to allow men and w­omen to become friends. 
Alumni President, Butch Ward, com­menting about barriers, felt that when men and women "meet in the dining hall or in the classroom, they're under pressure to im­press. But when you are forced into a living situation, those barriers are naturally broken down." 
In considering drawbacks, many ac­knowledged that there might be adjustment problems, but all polled were optimistic that Notre Dame students would be able to, as Cavanaugh president Paul Tobin put it, "adopt the right mode of thinking." 
Pajap conceded that, "One of the big disadvantages is that a Jot of guys that ar living in the dorms now might not be willing to accept this kind of change because it is kind of a unique and radical change for guys who have been living in an all-male dorm for two or three years." 
Opinions were mixed regarding how soon the administration would adopt the housing plans. Some felt that coresidential housing could be implemented next year, while others though the change would be many ­ears in coming. 
•s.............................-~·--~~5~--~.-........................................~..................... 
the observer Thursday, September 21, 1972 
Al Fatah backs down 
Arab terrorists ease Lebanese stance 

by Eric Pace ((') 1972 New York Times 

Rt>irut. Lebanon, Sept. 20-The Palestine liberation organization, under pressure from the Lebanese army, has acquiesced to new restrictions on Arab commando activity on Lebanese soil highly placed Arab informants reported today. 
The sources said Yasir ~Arafat, the AI Fatah leader, and other P. 
L. 0. chiefs had made their position known during talks with Mahmoud · ttiad, the secretary. general of the Arab League, who has been mediating between the Reirut government and com­mandoes, or Fedayeen. The commandoes were said to want to avoid a showdown with army. 
The informants also reported that booby-trapped mail had been sent to one or two AI Fatah leaders earlier this year. They said the mail had been intercepted, but they suggested that a desire to retaliate might have encouraged 
TAMIL NADU 
\ 

the Black September terrorist advancing Israeli tanks-and then And Riad, using diplomatic Many Lebanese leaders leel they group, an offshoot of AI Fatah, to ·found themselves prevent~ by understatement, said that the must restrict Fedayeen activities send postal bombs to Israeli of-Lebanese army from returnmg to commando leaders had "given in order to forestall future Israeli ficials this week. their old stamping grounds after assurances that they will continue raids. 
the Israelis withdrew. their cooperation with the An Israeli diplomat was killed in Lebanese government." London Tuesday by such a device .. 
Arab informants said Lebanese 
No comment on the latest bomb The Lebanese army high authorities had intercepted a letter mailings was forthcoming from command, which has long been The Arab informants said the bomb that had been mailed in

commando leaders today, but trying to curtail commando ac­commando chiefs had apparently Beirut to one of Arafat's main
Kamal Nasser, the chief tivities, also laid down new rules given in because they did not want deputies, Farouk Kaddoumi, who spokesman of the P. L. 0., told governing the movements of to risk a confrontation with the is known as Abu Lutuf, which 
a

reporters, "The Palestinian Fedayeen. These included Lebanese army, whose morale is means "father of gentleness."
stipulation that the commandoes

resistance movement has full high after the relatively good This bomb was in addition to the
confidence in President stay out of Lebanese villages. 

showing it made in the face of the three that killed Ghassan<Suleiman) Franjieh (of Lebanon) 
Israeli attack. Kanafani, spokesman of AI and his understanding of its role On Monday and Tuesday, the To have taken that gamble would Fatah's rival, theJ?opuiar Frontfor and his true belief in the justice of P .L.O. was quick to denounce tha risk complete sup­
have been to the Liberation of Palestine. 
the Palestinian cause." army's measures in a series of pression by the army--and after fiery broadcasts from the relative the drubbing they took in Jordan in 
Nasser's declaration seemed safety of Damascus. But today the 1970, the commandoes want to There are also reports that meant to ease the tension that has pro-commando Beirut newspaper maintain their position in Lebanon, another letter bomb was in­prevailed between the Lebanese AI-Liwa said the incident had been where there are an estimated 3,000 tercepted after being mailed to authorities and the Fedayeen since only a "tempest in a teacup." full-time Fedayeen. Arafat. Israel raided southern Lebanon last weeked in reprisal for the Black September Massacre of Israeli Olympic athletes at 

Mob violence increasing in India 
Munich. Many commandoes fled the Hy Kasturi Rangan 

elections in March, 1971. Before colleagues who broke with her, and ((')New York Times 
that there had been equally violent the Socialist party.New I>t"lhi--For many weeks, agitation but most incidents were Local Congress party leaders in 
mob violence has been erupting in over major issues such as Patna. state capital of Bihar, have various parts of India, set off by language, elections, state borders blamed the pro-Moscow Com­seemingly small-scale incidents and Hinu-Moslem tensions. munist party of India for fomen­
that officials say political foes of Although the current incidents ting violence there. Prime Minister Indira Gandhi apparently pose no immediate But a Government source here have inflated to national propor­threat to Mrs. Gandhi's Govern­said these riots apparently
tions. ment. the cumulative effect of reflected suppressed anger among 
There have been riots in recent growing lawlessness and economic the masses whose lives are days in New Delhi and in Bihar troubles could affect her becoming increasingly difficult Stcite southeast of here, and there popularity as well as the stability because of a steady rise in prices,
have been similar outbreaks in the of her Government. growing unemployment and last few weeks in five other states-­Mrs. Gandhi, apparently abysmal poverty.Kerala and Tamil Nadu in the worried, discussed the problem New Delhi was recently the 
south. Orissa on the east coast and with her New Congress party aides scene of four days of rioting byBujarat and Rajasthan in the at a special meeting early this citizens agitated by the death of a northwest. week. Shankar Dayal Sharma, the girl student who belonged to the 
In the last six months, more than party president, said after the Untouchable community. She was (iO people have reportedly been meeting that the current violence reported to have commited suicide killed and hundreds injured in in the country was a result of a after having been rebuked by her more than a dozen incidents in "deep-laid conspiracy" by four school headmistress who was said 
which the police have opened fire opposition parties that had earlier to have been offended by the girl's to restore order. joined in alliance to oust Mrs. invitation to share her food during
Violence has beset the country Gandhi. The parties are the right­a Hindu festival. after a relatively calm period of wing Hindu Jan Sangh, Swatantra, more than 18 months since Mrs. the Old Congress party led by Mrs. 
Gandhi's sweep in parliamentary Gandhi's erstwhile senior 
100 CENTER. ·MISHAWAKA (On Lincolnway West, between Logan and Main-Street) 

Thunday, September 21, 1972 
the observer 
5 

warld briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
New York -Explosive devices concealed in envelopes and mailed from Amsterdam to Israeli officials were discovered Wednesday in at least six cities abroad, and it was disclosed they had also been found in New York. Three of the envelopes, addressed to officials of the Israeli mission to the United Nations, were found by customs employes at the General Post Office in New York 
Saigon -United States planes have been mining the coastal rivers and canals of Northern Quangtri Province, just below the demilitarized • zone, to prevent the North Vietnamese from moving supplies across the border by boat, a senior United States Air Force officer disclosed Wednesday. The mining is believed to be the first ever of waterways in South Vietnam. 
Washington--The Senate Finance Committee voted to increase Social Security taxes bv about $6 billion to finance a vast array of new benefits for nation's elderly and disabled. The committee acted as it approached final approval of an extensive bill embracing both welfare reforms and liberalization of the Social Security and Medicare 
programs. 
Washington--Sweeping aside the Administration's objections, the House passed a bill creating an independent federal commission with broad authority to set mandatory safety standards for consumer products. The vote was 318 to 50. The bill now goes to a Senate-House Conference committee for reconciliation with one passed last June 31 by a senate vote of 69 to 10. 
New York-Dr. Wolfgang C. Friedmann, professor international law and director of legal research at Columbia University, was robbed and stabbed to death three blocks from the Columbia campus. His assailants, said to be three youths, escaped. 
an campua taday 
4:00p.m. meeting--smc president's convocation, o'laughlin auditorium 
6:30 meeting--placement night for science and engineering grads, engineering auditorium 
8: 15 concert--chicago symphony string quartet with louis sudler, library auditorium and lounge 
at nd-•mc: 
Quantri in enemy's hand 
•
North Vietnamese settling 1n 
deteriorating steadily and enemyby Joseph B. Treaster 
(c) 1972 New York Times pressure is expected to intesify. Route 1 has been cut iust below Saigon, Sept. 20-"The other side Quangngai City, the capital of is building a nation in the hills," a Auangngai Province, tor some high American officer said, time and on Saturday, a South summing up developments in the Vietnamese military spokesman in last six months in the five northern Saigon reported fresh enemy at­provinces of South Vietnam, tacks on the three southernmost known as Military Region 1 district capitals in the province. "The way they're going, they'll Two weeks ago the communist soon have two-thirds if not three­forces succeeded in pushing two­quarters of the physical geography thirds of the way across Tamky, of the region," he continued. the provincial capital. They were 
South Vietnamese troops took a following up a drive that had major step· I reversing the Com­gained considerable territory in munist trend in the northern region the southern part of Quangnam last Friday when they recaptured Province below Danang, South the citadel in the heart of the Vietnam's second largest city. capital of Quangtri Province, and "They're making a maximum some officials were saying they effort to inflict severe damage on 
haa greatly reduced the enemy government troops and to gain threat to Hue. territory," one senior American 
But the greater part of Quantri official said. Province remained either con­"They also want to inflict trolled or strongly consisted by the damalle on President Nixon's Communist forces and the Saigon Vietnam Policy in hopes of in­Military Command continued to fluencing the election," the official report 50 to 75 North Vietnamese continued. "They consider this a killed each day in the hills west of very important period. That's why Hue, indicating that more than a they keep attacking and pushing, few enemy soldiers were still in the evern though there is every in­area. dication that they have suffered 
Worse still was the situation in severe losses." th~ southern three provinces of the Some American officials take regiom -Wuangnam, Quangtin, comfort in the fact that the largest and Quangngai -· where the cities and most of the people of the government position has been region situated in the narrow 
CAC BLUES SERIES 
presents 

SHIRLEY GRIFFITH 
in a return performance 
at Washington Hall 
on Friday , September 22 
at 8:00 p.m. 
Doors open at 7:30 
$1.00 at the door 
coastal plain, have not yet come under communist control. 
But there is no denying that the Communists have greatly ex­panded the amount of territory to which they can legitimately lay claim in the vent of an in-place cease-fire or that they are in a position to annex even more ground. 
The northern region seems always to have· been accorded special significance in the Vietnam War--partly because it is adjacent ofNorth Vietnam and perhaps also partly because the region includes the former imperial capital, Hue, which holds an almost mystical place in Vietnamese Society as a cultural and intellectual center. 
Even those who tend to minimize the communists' successes in the region concede that they have had great "psychological and political effect." 
Intelligence officials had been predicting that the lower half of -1 Military Region would be a focal point for the Communists in late summer or early fall. In their first dramatic r_n()ve, toward the end of August, the Communists 

captured Queson, a district capital, and the nearby fire base known as OSS, which dominated the Queson Valley in Southern Quangnam Province. 
Government troops eventually recaptured the town and the fire base, but much of the surrounding terrain, including numerous trails linking the hills and the populated plain, stayed in enemy hands. 
In early September, the Com­munists took the town of Tien­phouc, a district capital in Quangtin Province, and gained effective control of the districts. This in turn gave them dominance over the Hauduc District Im­mediately to the south, which could no longer be reached by land and has no airstrip. 
These advances in Auangtin enabled the Communists to· move up supplies and longrange 130-mm artilery to a point where they could assault Tamky. As one American 
officer  said,  "Tienphouc  is  a  
springboard Tamkv."  for  an  attack  on  

SCHEDULE OF MASSES IN RESIDENCE HALLS 
HALL 
ALUMNI 
BADIN BREEN-PHILLIPS 
CARROLL DILLON 
FARLEY 
FISHER 
FLANNER 
GRACE HOLY CROSS 
HOWARD 
KEENAN 
LEWIS 
LYONS 
MORRISSEY 
OLD COLLEGE 
PANGBORN 
ST. EDWARDS 
SORIN 
STANFORD 
ZAHM 
CAVANAUGH 
WALSH DAILY MASS 

Varies -see hall bulletin t.oard 
10:30 p.m. Wed. & Mon. Varies . see hall bulletin board 
5:00p.m. Mon-Fri 
8:00 a.m. Mon-Sat 
11:00 p.m. Nlon·Fri 
5:00p.m. Mon·Fri 
5:00p.m. Mon-Fri 
11:00 p.m. Mon-Thurs 
5:00 Saturday 
11:00 p.m. Mon-Thurs 
5:00 p.m. Fri 
11:15 p.m. Mon-Fri 
11:00 
p.m. Mon-Fri 5:10p.m. Mon·Fri 

11:00 
p.m. Mon-Thurs 5:15p.m. Mon-Fri 

11:00 
a.m. Sat 9:30a.m. Mon-Sat 


11:30 p.m. Mon & Fri 7:00p.m. Tues & Thurs 
11:00 p.m. Mon-Fri Confessions 10:30-11:00 p.m. Wed. 
10:30 Mon-Sat. in Log Chapel 
10:00 p.m. Mon-Fri 
10:30 
p.m. Mon-Thurs 5:15p.m. Mon & Wed & Fri 

10:30 
p.m. Tues & Thurs same as Keenan 


10:00 p.m. Mon-Fri Varies -see hall buUetin board 
10:30 p.m. Tues. & Thurs. 




hills 

The new pressure m Quan~tin has led the Saigon Government to shift some of its troops away from Queson to the Tienphouc area. This has meant that efforts to retake lost ground in Queson were scaled down, giving the enemy troops a chance to catch their breath. 
According to allied intelligence reports, the Communists have been building a 10-foot wide road, have constructed numerous bunkers and houses and have been salting away supplies in the valley, which American and South 
Vietnamese ofticers have nick­named, the AK vallev after the 
basic North Vietnamese infantry weapon, the Soviet-built AK-47 rifle. 
Neither the division commander nor his senior adviser would discuss their unit nor the military situation in the area with this correspondent. Other Americans· in the region, however, spOke of the second division with disgust. 

SUNDAY MASS 
Saturday midnightI CD 11 p.m. Sunday in hall > lounge 
c 

See bulletin board Cl) 
10:30 p.m. Sunday Saturday midniaht1 ""0 
10:00 a.m. Sunday c: 
11:00 
p.m. Saturday 

11:00 
a.m. Sunday 5:00p.m. Saturday 


c 
c. 

10:00 p.m. Sunday 
:­

11: a.m. Sunday 
u

Saturday midnight 5:00p.m. Sunday 7:00p.m. Sunday (CILA) 
Saturday midnight 
11:00 
a.m. Sunday Saturday midnight Saturdav midnight Saturday midnight 

11:00 
a.m. Sunday (Urchins) 5:00p.m. Sunday 

11:00 
p.m. Saturday 9:30a.m. Sunday Saturday midnight 


11:30 a.m. Sunday Saturday midnight 
Q)

11:00 p.m. Sunday ,10:30 p.m. Saturday 
f; 

10Saturday Cl) 5:00p.m. Sunday 
10:30 p.v· Sunday "'U
c:

10:30 a.m. :,"•· y 
c 

same as Keenan Saturday midnight See bulletin board ·­
-
u

See bulletin board 
(.~;s~~--~a..~~------~----------~~~s~~------~----~.............................................._._a..._a........<&II_JII 
6 the observer Thursday, September 21, 1972 



OBSERVER 
COMMENT 
l
( 
I 
(, 

Mile11Ta Cia ••• A New Era? 
butch ward 
This is the beginning of a new era at Notre Dame. portrayed the real atmosphere that coed housing faculty and administration. We can't cut off this valuable com­From all corners of the campus, this battlecry has induces? Notre Dame has never hesitated to munication." greeted the arrival of women to the Du Lac com-demand its rightful position as a true leader among Af~er haying not only attended last year's SLC sacrifices, but also munity. We, the student body, have been invited to academic institutions in America, and we have havmg tned to type its cryptograms into some sort of understandable 
,· <lccept the invitation to partake in this new and always claimed uniqueness as a real Christian report as last year's SLC secretary, I think the kindest thing for the l'Xciting era. community. Do we actually doubt that we are Council would be euthanasia, or the racque, or the bed of needles. 
Our participation in this endeavor is assured; capable of implementing co-ed residences that When the Council was conceived almost five years ago, it was in the however, the uniqueness of this era remains in would reflect that same Christian spirit? wake ~f the studen_t power movement on campus. The rabble, psyched by question. To deny our ability to achieve a successful St. Richard Rossie, wanted a voice in how decisions were made on 
Does the mere presence of women on campus Christian community among men and women is to campus. They wanted to be heard in a legitimate forum of tri-partiteconstitute the framework for a revitalized Notre admit failure as a true coeducational institution; representation. They got their voice. The council was organized with Dame? Do men and women gain real insights into further. it is to admit a real doubt as to our actual student, faculty and administrative representation from the Student their ability to interact simply by sharing meals in ability in developing Christian character in our Affairs Vice-President's office. But now, the SLC should be re-evaluated. the same dining hall, or by attending classes students. Is it important tor students to merely babble with anyone like two fogether? Are we only attempting to eliminate the The road to the establishment of coeducational year olds or to be given an opportunity to think and act with topman's tendency to ogle at the sight of a woman, or residences is not an easy one; we cannot im-university decisionmakers? · the woman's tendency to take advantage of the mediately declare our halls to be co-ed and expect a Last year, asked from the parietals-sanctions extravaganza, the SLC larger male population? Will these changes con-successful community to thereby develop. But had a less than easy task of trying to teethe into issues involving students stitute the dawning of a new era at Notre Dame? there are concrete steps that can be taken to and to exert some authority. It would inflate itself with rhetoric for two 
Such changes could well result in a very smooth prepare this campus for implementation of such a and a quarter hours, take a time out, finally get down to business in the running operation; however, it would remain an program. First, each hall, as it now exists, rnust last fifteen minutes of the meeting, but fail to reach a consensus on what operation devoid of the real experience of utilize its staff, hall government, and the talents of action ~ho~ld be taken on the problem and dismiss promptly. It would coeducation that this great university should ex-every resident in an effort to develop an effective s_well With Impo~tance as. the rhetor~c g<_>t more pompous, only to collapsepet·ience. Are we really serious about coeducation? community. Also, Judicial Boards must adopt . hke an asthmatic man with the realizatiOn that it had no real authority to Is this a real commitment, or a token gesture? philosophies that reflect the trend towards the enforce its decrees. It is interesting to evaluate the member's comments 
The failure of innovations such as those Notre positive development of group living, rather than on the coming session of the Student Life Council as reported in Mr. Dame has implemented this year lies in their simply the administration of punishment upon Ruane's "Insights." It echoes the breathless anticipation of the students inability to promote the growth of any real trust those who flaunt hall rules. Some halls have waiting in dining hall lines getting a test you know you will fail.. .despair, between men and women. The masks that men and already begun programs in community living that bloom, dread. women have worn since the conception of the co-have resulted in a real concern among all of the It_ is significant th~t while Mr. Etienne was thumping his crystal ball exchange program with St. Mary's are still utilized, residents in those halls. This type of community agamst the wall trymg to shake some coeds into the District no.5 SLC and if interaction between the sexes remains spirit must spread, if co-ed living is to be the force race. no one from the SLC or Bice-President of Student Affairs Office limited to the classroom and the dining hall, we will that it could be. except Floyd Kezele bothered to go over to Walsh or Badin to brief th~ never be induced to remove those guises. The But once these initial processes are complete, the coeds on what the SLC's function is. Maybe it wasn't an oversight.formula for the final and complete dismantling of university must then accept its responsibility to its Maybe nobody knows .In contrast, last year, a woman, Ann Marie Tracey the barriers to real "coeducation" lies in the commitment, and implement the necessary ran for an SLC seat and received a large bloc of North Quad votes. establishment of residence halls that will enhance changes in our residence hall system. Let the Notre Another example of how the SLC's credibility is diminishing? the 'growth of real Christian community. Dame community, both administration and The Studen~ Life Council should be axed for another type of tri-partite 
We_ are afraid of coeducational residence halls. students. begin to develop a real sense of trust in the body--one which would deal comprehensively with all student-oriented Notre Dame must ask its community, why? Are we moral fiber of the Notre Dame student. Let us problems from student life to academic, a combination SLC-Academic
' . 
incapable of accomplishing Christian community assert and believe that we at Notre Dame are, Affairs Committee, more importantly, one whose rosterwouldinclude the 
when men and women reside under the same roof? indeed, unique in our Christian spirit, and that that decision-makers of this campus. As Mr. Faccenda remarked in 
Perhaps the root of our fears is anchored in our spirit enables us to institute programs that lift us yest~rday's SLC "Insight," the leadership that has been provided after conception of the co-ed dorm. Are we really so above the mediocre, and into the midst of the most the first two years of the Student Life Council has led to dissillusionment convinced that Life Magazine and Playboy have fulfilling of coeducational institutions. because the best possible leaders have been by-passed. 
The Student Life Council should be re-molded into a University Forum. 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
This idea has been gathering dust in the Student government's memory album since Phil McKenna's reign as SBP three years ago. Under this system, top administrators <Hesburgh, Joyce, Burtchaell, Wilson,
Letter • • • • • • from the kahuna Faccenda, t~e Student Affairs Vice-President), faculty (4 college deans, A_A U~ president, fa~ulty senate president), and students (SBP, SBVP distnct representatives) would-meet several times a year. Once a quarter ~ould not be tO? frequent. The fewer meetings, the more to accomplish. The more Important the membership, the less amount of paper bureaucracy and the better the quality of decision. 
Editor: back for this endorsement). But Mr. Klunk has promisea that he There are just two ideas to revitalize SLC. Every other member could that sheer and chic black silk outfit will associate himself with the best probably come up with a pocketful of suggestions too. But the real When I graduated many com­for the spring game really turned coaches down at the Torch during ~rime is that in spite of the rhetoric, the groans, the iack of action that is 
plained that I had left the me on. the season. So, I feel if each of you mherent in the initials, SLC, elections still go on. Wind bags inflate. 
University stripped of one of its give him a hand then the Naked Paper proposals will fly once again across cluttered desks to their waste-
bare essentials. However, I never Klunker will be able to show you paper basket destinations. ­intended last year to be my finale. why "skin is in." There is better rhetoric on the Merv Griffith Show. Just to show how weird I really I may return for Q a finale at Devotedly yours in Notre There are better, more relevant decesions at a rugby practice. was, I planned on attending Law Purdue if I am in the right mood Dame, The University is a Walden Pond. If we are so reticent to discard the School at Notre Dame and become (in other words, if I am drunk obsolete, who in this society will? If we do not show the courage of
enough). For all of you die-hard
a double domer. Alas, Dean Love and Kisses, innovatorsand experimenters, who will? 
Kahuna fans, you will be allowed to
Schaeffer, so to speak did not The burden is ours--all of ours! 
groove on my act. But, even so, catch a peek of my drawers in the Jamie "The Naked Kahuna' Uncle Sam has conscripted an john during half time. Egan idea to expose me on tour with the troops. Thus, it com~ time wit.. tears streaming down both cheekE 
daanesbury
that I must reveal a successor. 
Hl/15. CAVClJS. 
'11/lrt: SIWS YO/J'RE GDVNII 
!Jc 5TAYI/IIG
Ht:t..L-~

I have sized up the candidates 
IJN{) H&t.PING
l ZONKER 1 

and if God and the man in black 

/#ITH fl-1, IH&" 
sitting in the press box sees fit that this au natural tradition continue, then I feel Ed "Naked Klunker" Klunk should fall into a list Of many Notre Dame Nude IMmortals. I first noticed the Naked Klunker mimicking my moves in the B-P john two years ago. I am sure he picked up helpful hints from being my presidential campaign photographer. <By the: way, I am getting all the negatives; 


The Last Hurrah 

The SLC and King Konfusion 
ann there•• darin 

"There has got to be an SLC!" wheezed larengytised John "SBP" Ba~kett. As I sat in the student government office last spring with a sheaf )f Important Student Life Council handouts-the Student Manual from which SLC in a crucial 9o-minute huddle opted to delete all references to stud~nts as males in deference to this year'scoeds; an off-again, on-again traffic appe_al_s c~urt merger ~ith its St. Mary's counterpart; and other assorted trivia, It seemed like a bad dream. King Konfusion and H(esitanU-Man were seesawing over the merits of having elections for the student SLC representatives. John the Gipper of student government wanted King and H to come out strong for SLC. "You've got to have elections. Everyone worked so hard to have an SLC. 
Just think of all you would lose." he whispered from his Morrissey cataflaque. "It is the only chance students have to sit down with the 

by ta•rry trudeau 

WHY. .. "ZON/\cR ... 
/J.Jiii1T .4 t-01/£1..-Y: 
I't-t-PO

LOVEl-Y THIN6 FbR 
,.&Wyrf/!NB

YO() TD PO... 
TD ocr FeP 

THr:JNk YOtJ £0 
PROPeRL-Y

11tJCI/... I 
C> 



.., 
j 
j 
~ 
I 
~ 
t 
0) 
·-c:
..... 
0 c: c: 
:r:: s... c:
0 
-, :X: Q => 
c: -o c: 
...c -0 c:
0
-, c::-~ 
0 
Q 
VI 
L.. 
0-:l 
..Q·-L..
-c: 
0 
u 
...... 
c: 
Cb 
E 
Cb 

......


Q.."­


Q..o Historical insights:
:J lJ
(1)-g 
What went before
...... 0 
0 

oint 
or 
I s 


by Maria Gallagher0-o St. Mary's Editor
·­
u 
(I) 0 One hundred twenty nine years of history lieCb a:: behind Saint Mary's College. You'll find it struggling to articulate itself in the pages of the ~ 
information bulletin, in an occasional feature in the Courier, in Marion McCandless' book Family Portraits, in a conversation with an elderly Holy
'­
> 
Cb Cross sister. Yet how many of the students are aware of the tradition that precedes them? 
So far this fall, there has been tremendous
'­
emphasis upon the changes at Saint Mary's ­
Cb 
Cl) and rightly so. Still, a historical perspective can help one appreciate those changes even more.
..Q 
Saint Mary's has come a long way from its
0 early academy days in Bertrand, Michigan. Four sisters, with help from Father Sorin, established the girls' school in 1844, and received its first charter from the state of Michigan in April, 1850. 
People complain about the shuttle bus irregularities today, but the sisters didn't even have an unreliable bus back then. It was a long walk from Bertrand, Michigan (just across the state line) to Notre Dame-quite a stretch even in summer and almost intolerable in the Indiana winter. 
The move was made to the present site in 1855 when Father Sorin purchased the Rush property for them. Father was not entirely selfless, though --the present railroad tracks that. cross the Saint Mary's campus are there because Father Sorin didn't want them cutting across Notre Dame. The sisters brought everything they had at Bertrand with them, even some simple old frame buildings which were moved on wooden rollers. 
(continued on page 10) 


•sa..x~~~--....~.a~--~~--~~--~--..~~a..~~....~..........~..........................~-•-z-.z•.•££•-•--..•s....-.a..................... 
r 
Thursday, September 21, 1972
t I 8 the obsCITver 
r 
~ 
.1 
• 
, 
I
•~­
'!­
,f. ' 
~t' 
t-~ 
..r 
> ­
' 
~ 
i 
. 
~ 
i 
~ 
f 
~ 

by John J. Hof Assistant to the President 
As a newcomer to Saint Mary's College, I have been rather intrigued by that integral part of campus life known as train-waiting. Now train­waiting does indeed have a value. It stimulates, if not requires, one to grow in the virtue of patience. Patience of course is a good. It is inherent in the first word of the train oriented jargon: Stop! Look! Listen! Since we prefer not to be hit by a train, we stop. And if this silly analogy may be carried a bit further, with regard to the future of Saint Mary's College, we also must stop, that is have patience, since it is preferable not to be hit, and hit hard, by the negative influences that would render our future doubtful. 
So with stop-patience then, let us together take a good look at SaintMary sCollege·. We im­mediately see an institution with an enviable history and identify that has opted to remain a small, Catholic, liberal arts college for women. It has done so because one of the great strengths of America's system of higher education is its variagated pattern of opportunites, op­portunities which make it possible somewhere 
. within the system for every student to find what she or he is looking for. Veteran educatiors have amaximin seeking qualitywhichstates that each 
educational institution cannot be everything to everybody. Each must decide for itself what it want to be, and then it must do its own thing well. 
Thus Saint Mary's College is not for every woman. It is for those who believe in its ideals, who desire to participate ·in its challenge, and who wish to benefit from what it has to offer. 
Now to understand well the ideals, the challenge, the offerings, all of us have to heed 
· especially the third aspect of the train bit: Listen! We must listen to all the constituencies of our College community -Faculty, students, administration , Staff, Board of Regents, Alumnae, Parents, The Sisters of the Holy Cross, and in a sense, theGeneralPublic. But to unite these various constituencies, to inspire hope in the weary, to provide direction for the disoriented, and to stimulate courage within a time of confusion,strong leadership is absolutely essential. This is the job of the new President of Saint Mary's College, D. Edward L. Henry. 
Dr. Henry is fully cognizant of the fact that within what is really a dynamic era of change, R'ivate education faces serious problems. In­deed, the climate in which all of higher education operates is far less receptive to the educational mission than it used to be. But the President has confidence in the future as long as the total College Community dedicates itself to a full self­examination, an examination that will allow the true nature of Saint Mary'scommitmentto be more perfeclty understood. To this end, Dr. Henry has initiated this year a planning process which will involve all of the College con-



John J. Hof: ..Stop, look, and listen. I I 
stituencies. Theassembledcommittees and task 
forces will, for instance, specify individual 
responsibilities and relationships,' formulate an 
effective governance, outltne good living and 
working conditions, express vaJ:Jes, define goals, 
engineer a curriculum to achieve these goals, 
explore new delivery systems for the 
curriculum, and assure that the resourses of the 
institution will be adequate to carry out Saint 
Mary's mission. 
Saint Mary's is a small college . And there is a 
rising tide of support for small educational units 
as being the best way to provide for maturing 
opportunities and really close personal relationships. Such small units also generate the sense of family that can bridge all of those ridiculous gaps we hear so much about, that sense of family that can allow us to grow and to learn together. 
Saint Mary's is a women's college. And there is a growing conviction that the way to counter psychological and institutional biases towards women, especially in the formative years, is to create an academic setting in which they are regarded as first class citizens. . Personally, I have yet to see this regard on a coeducational campus, women's lib notwithstanding. 
Saint Mary's is a liberal arts college. And Dr. 
Henry is dedicated to maintaining and in fact strengthening the liberal arts. He also believes that as a social·. institution, the College has to meet the needs of its students, and he realizes that these needs may gradually change over a period of time, hence the need for planned review. As a result, over a period of time 
-the college has a specific theoretical 
mission of developing the intellect it also has 
been forced by history and circumstances, no 
less than by common sense, toaccept other 
responsibilities such as providing social 
laboratories and career training. And the 

President is convinced that with thoughtful 
planning, such provisions . need only entail 
broadening the base of the liberal arts 
curriculum. 
Saint Mary's is a Catholic college. And as 
much it endeavors to foster full realization 
within the College Community that each of us, as 
a child of God, must be sensitive both to our 
heavenly destiny and to the human conditions of 
our neighbors. Moreover, it is only through 
intensive efforts to strengthen personal 
spirituality that one can gain the maximum 
benefit from the Saint Mary's College ex­
perience. Wisdom is really the goal, and each of 
us must respond individually to a rather 
penetrating question post by Vatican II: "As 
special branches of knowledge continue to shoot 
out so rapidly, how can the necessary synthesis 
of them be worked out, and how can men 
preserve the ability to contemplate and to 
wonder, from which wisdom comes?" 
Saint Mary's College, as Dr. Henry so often 
points out, has a long tradition of service to society through young women -almost 130 years, which makes it one of the oldest women's colleges in the United States. Its respected history of continuously high moral and academic expectations for its graduates is convincingly demonstrated by loyal and. 2dedicated alumnae. And the vital concern of the Sister of the Holy 
Cross that their beloved College grow and 
prosper brought about separate incorporation 
and a new progressive partnership between laity 
and religious. The presence of a student 
representative and a faculty representative as 
full voting members of the board of Regents is 
indicative of the ever growing spirit of a total 
College Community. 
So 1he program to build an even greater Saint 
Mary's College is well under way. Ther first 
planning meetings will begin shortly, but the 
President has already taken some immediate 
steps: Departmental chairmen have been asked 
to include students in departmental meetings. 
Substantial personnel shifts have occured to 
bring in new points of view such as providing a 
special ombundsman-advisor for students who 
have academic problems to be unsnarled.· A new 
devlopment office has been established. An 
increased emphasis has been given to recruiting 
in order to assure a continuous supply of highy 
qualified young women. Creativity has been 
encouraged with a new experimental system 
that permit quick review and decision on in­
novative approaches to education. Additional 
off-campus programs are being investigated, 
__ and more vital inter-institutional opportunites 
are being fully explored. A greater social 
climate is being created on campus by preparing 
new facilities and providing additional equip­. ment. And allof these are just a slim preview of the exciting things to come. 
Often while train-waiting, I people-watch as 
well. How refreshing and encouraging it is to 
perceive that, though everything is not alway 
peaches and cream, the withered faces are few 
and far between! There appears to be a growing 
sense of our Saint Mary's unique identity. 
Dreams can be fulfilled; visions can become 
reality; and hearts knit together in love and 
common endeavor can change the world. So do 
let us share more and more Dr. Henry's con­
fidence that a fusion of the sacred and the 
secular. the spiritual and the humanistic ·might 
really be achieved on our campus as nowhere 
else. 
Saint Mary's College has the potential, if we work as a team, to become the finest small, Catholic, liberal arts college for women in the country -indeed, to remain in the forefront of women's education ! As our total College Community continues its efforts to acheive this goal, perhaps the words of an ancient prayer could best serve as our guide: "Heavenly Father, grant us the patience to accept that which we cannot change, the courage to change that which we can, and the wisdom to know the difference." 

'Saint Mary's has the potential • • • to remain in the forefront of women's education. II 
' ' 

................----------------------------------~---------------­
Thursday, September 21, 1972 

Ann Dunn: ..We need to explore 
by Ann Dunn 

For various reasons, students of St. Mary's converge on this campus at this time. each of us entitled to unique feelings and thoughts which cannot be conflated into nor confined within a single person's analysis. Each of us at one time or another has experienced misgivings and anxieties about our location in time and space, feeling an affinit~ for places and eras other than those in which w~ exist. Rather than dismissing such an attitude as a fantasy, possibly we should be attentive to a vision in order to deepen or allevia~ our disenchantment until we are dislocated or re-located in the world. 
Since the first moment I arrived on campus I began hearing words reminiscent of solicitations and promises of last year. Words regarding the dawn of new attitudes of "independence", "innovation", "responsiveness", "working together" rang with a hollowness even to the village optimist. Despite pleadings to "squelch the cynic", many students and faculty members remained mildly skeptical of change. 
Amazingly enough, some of these new at­titudes have been reflected in the decisions and actions of our "new" Administration. Students were greeted by real people, replete with en­thusiasm for imaginative ideas and vivid con­cerns. Motivated by concern for the social at­mosphere, administrative committees began 

many ideas. I I 
work on the "new" Student Center in Regina Hall, the Coffee House, Lounge Renovations, extension of Coffee Shop hours, etc. In asimilar spirit, each dorm extended its services to include the openi~g of Hall offices for twenty-four hours, and Resident Graduate Counselors. A well­planned professional orientation of Resident Assistants toward an operative base of practical knowledge <including advising, referral ser­vices, first aid, fire safety, etc.· plus-a two-credit hour semester "In Service Practicum" course have raised the consciousness of the ongoing responsibility of the Resident Assistants to the needs of those living nearby. In addition, the Academic Affairs office has been most responsive -in a refreshingly personal way -in Academic Counseling. The list of services honed in upon specific problems and concerns of the student, continue and indeed, reinforce the fact that many people are dedicated to helping the students. 
However. countering this sweeping spirit of apparent good-will, a resistance is evident. Somewhere in the proverbial subliminal recesses of existence many are still not inspired to participate in this institutional drive to produce a finished product of a college while we have no idea of what the product is to be. Even more fearful is the feeling that one freshman woman disclosed to me that upon hearing the opening speeches ; one adminstrator made her feel as if she will be the product emerging from the assemblyline SMC education, ready to be delivered to her parents in four years. 
Whereas many planners feel that they have opted for their concept of the definition of, "a small, Christian, liberal arts college" in the direction they have plotted, there are those of us who feel that our integrity is being threatened and our potential being grossly undercut. Somewhere within this mechanism which clarifies and defines the context of the college (almost purging it of the somewhat chaotic and yet passionately creative fervor of last November's protest>' spontaneity is being stiltified. We function together lbut, we do not feel the artistic pull of imagination calling us to our tasks of learning. 
The only two encouraging sparks of interest at this point seem to be a small grass-roots movement pushing the question of parietals and judicial reforms and a faculty-student of in­vitations into the homes and residence halls to extend our relationships to one another, as educators, beyond the classroom. 
In a psychological free space, we must call upon the resources of reason, will, and intellect in the task of attending to reality. For reality offers a measurement of goodness in order that he self may formulate a unique way of seeing the world-a personal vision. In living together, we · cannot improve our relationships by miring 
ourselves deeply in our own self-involvement. We need to explore and discuss many issues and ideas that will further contribute to our in­dividual personal vision and collective public identity. 

.,......~..~·....~........~~~--~----~·~·..~~s..~.........~...............................................~....zs....-.s................a~llllllllllllll 
, • v HI~ ou:;erver ···-· ---, · --· ­

The history of chan 
'• 
(continued from page 7) 
The original name was "Saint Mary's of the ­Immaculate Conception," and its legal existence was confirmed in 1855 by the state of Indiana, which empowered the sisters to "establish an ( Academy of learning for the education of young ladies in the various branches of arts and 
--~ 
sciet1ces usually taught in female academies of
,_ 
the highest learning; and to confer such degrees
,_ 
on scholars as are usual in such institutions." By this charter, Saint Mary's became the first le­gally authorized Catholic college for women in the United States. 
The first candidates for membership in a future alumnae association were six girls representing Illinois, Indiana, Louisiana, Michigan, and Wisconsin a rather cosmopolitan group for a class of its size. The school grew quickly, and by June 1863, one hundred and thirty two students were enrolled.
<.. ' 
t. Wartime put a strain on the academy. Sixty i Holy Cross sisters served at the front as nurses 1_, ' in the Civil War, and small memorial headstones 
~ 
still mark their graves in the sisters' cemetery behind Regina Hall. Not one was killed in combat. When a mischievious little boy was seen
!, 
waving the Union flage from the porch of Ber­trand Hall, it caused a near-insurrection among
~ 
the southern girls who countered the next day by
L 
making a Confederate flag out of their pet­
L 
ticoats. Even then, Saint Mary's students were
L 
capable of asserting themselves. There is no r record, however, as to how General William l Tecumseh Sherman was received by the c southerners when he attended the com­
( 
mencement of 1865.
l 

t ... the first legally authorized Catholic t 
l college for women in the United States. 
[ 
I What was the spirit of the school in those days? Vacations during the school year, except at 
t_ 
Christmas, were unknown; and even during the 
( 
holidays many students chose to stay. Marion 
r 
McCandless records in Family Portraits that "· many returned during the summer to the place 
~ 
~. they had come to regard as their home." The 
~· 
archives contain letters received by the sisters r from students which indicate the closeness
[ 
which characterized the academy. Between "the 
I l 
college," as Notre Dame was then known, and the academy were a dirt road and a cinder footpath, but it was a road never taken by the girls.
r. 
t 
The administration of Mother M. Pauline, from 1895 to 1931, was the completed evolution of
t 
the academy into a liberal arts college. Its first 
c 
degree was granted in 1898. By an amendment of
( 
the charter in 1903, the name of the academy was
I, 
changed to Saint Mary's College.
1., Mother Pauline was an innovator, and in 1899 
~ 
f. shocked a great many people in those con­l servative times by hiring an instructor of "physical culture." Chimes reported that "Saintf Anglea Hall will serve as a gymnasium ... general and individual instruction is being given, and physical training based on hygienic principles." There were those who considered this move( much too "advanced" for young ladies, ­( especially when they could be seen in bloomers, I climbing about the newly installed strange app­t aratus. Eventhe five yards of black serge that 
went into each pair of bloomers, bagging loosely 
~ 
( about six inches above the ankles were not ' sufficient evidence of their modesty. One can
c 
imagine teir reaction to a group of modern-dayr Saint Mary's women rollicking on the quad in a
( 
football game with some Notre Dame friends-in 
~ 
cutoffs, no less. ~ Despite the insistence of society back then to I keep women in their "place," educated woman ( was nevertheless coming into her own. Mary 
Cochrane Ryan ('73, from Chicago), in a toast at an alumnae reunion at the turn of the century,
I 
made these remarks: 
( 
( "The dignity of the female character cannot be ( 
too highly estimated nor too sacredly protected.
( 
Many writers, admiring the fair sex, take it for 
( 
granted that mere amusement is the only object
I 
to be proposed. This is not true ... it is a good sign 
r. 
of advance in society when attention is paid to 
'· 
the education of women. Today, all fields of learning are open to her and the highest mental 
i' 
r culture is not denied her. But what a woman knows is of comparatively little importance to what she is. Let her mind be enlarged and her in­{ormation accurate; let her excel if possible in 
i mtellectual development of her mind, and let the 
( 
growth of her soul keep pace ... " 
' 
', 
( ~ 
,· ' 
SMC 

Saint Nlary's College
...._ 

..NOTRE DAME, INDIANA 
Not only were the educational bars to women being raised, but several social ones as well. The pinnacle of excitement at the alumnae reunion in 1920 was the first official Notre Dame -Saint Mary's dance, held in Saint Angela Hall. The record of the incident in Family Portraits is surprisingly contemporary: "While the older members looked on with amazed and un­believing eyes, the younger generation made the most of its opportunity.'' Adventure was coming into its own with the first formal social in­troduction of Notre Dame to Saint Mary's. Less than forty years later, complete segregation had taken an about-face with the initiation of the academic coexchange program. 
In 1934 Sister M. Madeleva was appointed third president of Saint Mary's, and during this twenty-seven year period, her reputation as a poet, her travels and lectures, and her educational theories made their impact not only on Saint Mary's but on higher education for women everwhere. By providing in 1943 the first graduate school of sacred theology for women, secular. and religious, whe opened both a field and an era. (The newly-consecrated Episcopal bishop of the northern Indiana diocese hold his doctorate from Saint Mary's.) The program was discontinued in the mid 1960's when it was decided that the expense exceeded the necessity, since by this time a great many schools offered a similar course of study. 
Again, in 1956, she authorized the in­terdepartmental program in Christian culture <now termed humanistic studies) to implement Christopher Dawson's theories that the Catholic Church predominantly created and shaped western civilization. 
Sister Maria Renata succeeded Sister Madeleva to the presidency upon her death in 1961, and inaugurated both the graduate ­program in elementary education and special education. and the coexhange program between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. 
The direction Saint Mary's takes this year and in the next few years under Dr. Edward Henry will doubtlessly also go down the history books as important turning points. Imagine, though, how these changes must appear to an alumnae of many years ago. How must an alumna who wasn't even permitted to go to a Notre Dame football game view a student petition for open dormitories? A sample of alumnae opinion over a wide span of years provided an insight into the old and the new Saint Mary's, and how they feel about the new image of their alma mater. 
'Five yards of black serge went into each pair of bloomers, bagging loosely about six inches above the ankles. 

Thursday, September 21, 1972 
the observer 1 1 

ge at Saint Mary's 


Marion McCandless <SMC '00), oldest living alumna. recalls that no major porgrams were offered at the time that she matriculated at the college, but that it was then "as it is now, an excellent school." <She claims that the food quality has improved, though). Miss McCandl­ess is pleased that the merger was not con­summated and would rather see an autonomous Saint Mary's. 
Florence Lynch Bohan <Mrs. J. M., '10) sees no harm in change --"It's a changing world," she asserts. "Even our Church is changing ... I'll support anything that is real progress." 
In Mrs. Bohan's undergraduate days, "if you looked crosseyed at a boy you'd be expelled!" This she thought, was absurd since the sisters constantly stressed the importance of marrying a Catholic boy and yet did their best to keep the girls away from them. Despite the situation, Mrs. Bohan said she "loved" her years at Saint Mary's and felt that the sisters of the Holy Cross were wonderful. 
Mrs. Bohan last visited the campus the year after her golden anniversary, 1961. While she admits to being out of close touch with the college in recent years, nevertheless she still has strong opinions about the direction the school is taking. 
"It's nice that the girls don't have to wear u­niforms anymore, but I don't approve of them wearing shorts... there's a time and a place for everything, and !don't think that shorts are app­ropriate for college ... ! have no objections to a male head of Saint Mary's--! don't mean to minimize the ability of the sisters--but I'm sure he'll do a good job... a definite •contact' bet­ween otre Dame and Saint Mary's should be maintained, and of course coexchange classes.­.. when I was in school, we weren't allowed to see the boys at all; at all our parties girls danced with girls ... can you imagine!" 
It is difficult to imagine, but Sister Maria Pieta Scott <Stella Scott, '22) remembers much of the same. 
'It is a good sign of advance in 
society when attention is paid to the education of women. r 
'Over the years there is change but 
there is also continuity in change.' 
"Only brothers and first cousins were per­mitted to visit the girls," she mused. "Of course some girls had dozens of cousins and girls with or without brothers manufactured them." 
Back then one needed permission from the dean or the president to leave the campus, and when the girls went downtown they were always accompanied by a chaperone. 
"My best friend warned me against coming to Saint Mary's because she said the sisters would 'rope me in.' Well, I guess they did!" she smiled. 
Sister Pieta recal~ed that Holy Cross Hall was the whole college; Lemans hadn't even been built yet. 
"There was more of a family atmosphere then since the college was smaller," she feels. She estimates that 200 were enrolled at that time. 
Although Sister Pieta has seen drastic external and internal changes in her more than 50 years here, they don't bother her because "God per­mits them." 
"I love Saint Mary's and couldn't leave," she said. 
One thing which hasn't changed since Sister -Pieta's day is the cost of education at Saint Mary's. 
"When I went to Saint Mary's you had to watch your pennies. That still holds true." 
Although Marion McCandless has stated she didn't like the Observer because it was "too radical," Sister Pieta (a journalism graduate of Columbia), on the contrary, likes it. "It's the way young people express themselves today." 
Sister M. Edna Orzechowska, who came to Saint Mary's in 1910, sees this expression as good --"a desire to improve and constantly strive for the better.'' 
"There's a revolution throughout the world-­it's not just here; there are changes everywhere. It reflects, I think, a desire to be better but will 
things really get better? Only God knows." 
Sister Edna feels that in spite of the external changes the spirit of the girls now is much the same as it was back in 1910, but their manners and dress are "terrible sometimes." Again, though, she notes that changes must come about and more often than not are in the right direc­tion. 
Another view comes from Maureen Hayes Mansfield (wife of Majority Leader Mike Mansfield, SMC '26) who in an address to a gathering of Washington alumnae stated: 
"Some of my happiest years were spent at St. Mary's. The contrast with how it i for today's students seems very sharp; yet, in perspective, it is not so sharp. Over the years there is change but the is also continuity in change. Women in colleges and universities today --men and women -· seek a sense of fulfillment, a sense of well-being, and a sense of worthwhileness in their lives, and, if we can remember our own sentiments at that time, so it has always been." 
While the changes since Mrs. Mansfield's time in 1926 have indeed been drastic, they do not seem to disturb her or many of the alumnae interviewed. An anonymous alumna from the class of '32 was recently quoted in the Courier as remarking at the latest reunion, 

Thursday, September 21, 1972
the observer 

(continued from page 11) 
'"l found much that has changed--and much that will never change, notably the warm welcome and enduring love ofthe Sisters and our other friends on campus." 
The Courier summer edition also published a letter which said: 
"I think the nonmerger was a push rather than a blow to Saint Mary's, more unifying than divisive. What a perfect time to reeva{uate the College when women are becoming more out­wardly aware than ever b~fore.'(Bonnie Larkin 
Nirns, '43). 

The more recent graduates seem almost downright enthusiastic about the winds of change. Mary Gladys Turner Enderle (Mrs. R. T., '57) called the changes "delightful," and said she was pleased to see more responsibility placed on the girls' shoulders since they are mature enough to accept it. 
"I'm curious to see what happens this year and in the next few years--if the enrollment holds up, ifthe financial situation remains stable. I'm not opposed to change--actually, it took me a while to warm up to the idea ofa merger, but now that it's off many good things remain." 
Describing the social life, Mrs. Enderle said, "We weren't in the Dark Ages. We went to Fort Lauderdale in the spring just like college students do now, and we always went to the football games. I can't remember the exact curfews, but I can remember counting my 5:30, 8:30, and 10:30 permissions. We were permitted to stay out till midnight on Saturdays." 
When asked if she would go to Notre Dame or Saint Mary's again given the chance, Mrs. Enderle hedged and admitted she really couldn't make a choice. 
"But we had a terrific class, "she asserts," and I just loved it at Saint Mary's." 
Sister Kathy Reichardt (SMC '60) reminisces that student government during her un­dergraduate days was concerned mainly with bringing quality speakers to campus. 
"O'Laughlin was quite a cultural center, and there was much contact between Saint Mary's and Notre Dame -LaFortune was really a "student center' in those days." 
According to Sister Kathy, the school was much smaller then--"about 800 students" -and everyone ate at the same time in LeMans Hall where the Reigbeaux is now located) as there was no cafeteria building then. Holy Cross and LeMans were the only residence halls; there was a great deal of hall spirit; classes were held in LeMans and the Science Hall as Madeleva had not yet been built. 
"Of course the rules were stricter then, but the girls felt no sense of authoritarian opression--the rules reflected the way society was in those days." 
Sister Kathy cites the "more cosmopolitan point of view" as one of the changes she part­icularly supports. She agrees that fewer girls attend mass now than formerly, but also noted that Saint Mary's, unlike Notre Dame, "never had mass checks. They were never forced to go." 
Commenting on the lack of vocations from Saint Mary's, Sister Kathy believes there will be a resurgence of interest in the religious life in the future. 
"The world has come to view the religious life­as "less desirable looking" than in the past, but this goes for any commitment which implies permanence, including marriage. People are taking their lies more seriously, and the balues which deserve to exist will survive." 
One hundred and twenty nine years of chang•, and adjustment to change. In what direction are we heading? With Sister Edna, we will have to·~ agree--only God knows. But let us agree with faith and optimism, remembering the Sint M­ary's motto, Spes Vnica, which means, "United in hope." 

I have found much that has changed and much that will never change. 
Mrs. Enderle last visited the campus in June. She believes that the Holy Cross sisters should still be vocal in college policies but that laymen should be represented as well. 
"In the last ten years there have been more changes than in the last twenty-five or thirty. When I was there we were still governed by some of the same policies that were set up in the times our mothers went there." 
Mrs. Enderle reflected with amusement on the social atmosphere in the late fifties. 
"We didn't get off campus too often because we weren't allowed to have cars, and neither were the Notre Dame guys. Consequently, there was a great deal of cooperative social programs between the two schools -the campus was the center of almost all social activities." 
She also recalls that as freshmen, whenever they travelled anywhere, they had to wear hats and gloves. 
"We had to wear uniforms during the week but it really didn't matter to any of us because this • was in the days before coexchange classes and we never saw the guys during the day." 
Mrs. Enderle felt that uniforms were an ad­vantage bacause "they saved your good clothes." She said she was surprised when she heard that unirorms were voted o out by students shortly after she graduated. 

' 

-----------------------------------------~ Thursday, September 21, 19721 , 
the observer 

Don Horning 


Total institutional review 
by Dr. Donald Horning Chairman, Planning Committee With the sounds of the merger break-up still resonating softly in the now empty chamber of hope, I sat somewhat increduously in the make­shift office of President Edward Henry as he spelled . out his request--that I chair a total planning effort for Saint Mary's College. Specifically, his charge was three-fold: (l)he wanted a plan that would prepare the college for its C!ollision with the future and which would 
carry it into the next decade; (he wanted a plan 
that reconciled the incongruities in con­
temporary liberal arts especially as they relate 
to women's education; (3) he wanted a plan that recognized the differing views and prospectives on the SMC campus ; and (4) he wanted a plan that would project Saint Mary's College beyond the greatness that is its proud legacy, to the point where it could assume its rightful place in the forefront of women's education. 
Since that day in mid-July, I have harl an opportunity accorded to few academics :-an opportunity to reflect at length on the much troubled educational enterprise of which we and our problems are but a microcosm with some unique permutations;-an opportunity to probe the depths of my own awareness regarding the educational enterprise to ask what is right with it and what is wrong with it, what is possible and what is not possible, what is probable and what is not probable --an opportunhy to research other mstitutions, especially those that have successfully charted their course through the troubled waters of institutional change; --an opportunity to float untethered among the vanous islands of onininn in th"' 
college community · in quest of the multifarious visions of the ideal academic in­stitutional climate; --an opportunity to glimpse and occasionally see in depth the genuine love that people have for the proud and •noble heritage that is Saint Mary's;-an opportunity to sample the fears, frustrations, and ov­ccasional hatred nurtured by the disappointment over the failure of the merger; and finally,-an opportunity to develop a plan for a total in­stitutional review. 
In the intervening weeks, following numerous meetings with members of the administration, faculty and students, the plans for the planning committee and institutional review process haye been formulated. Throughout the pre-planning operation , it has become evident that there is no death of ideas about what could or should be changed of academe. The difficulty lies in gettin~ the propel; changes considered, approved and implemented. 
In developing the plans for 'total institutional review, the following guidelines have been operational: ( 1) the planning operation should represent the major constituencies in the college: administration, students,faculty, alumni,staff. the religious, order and parents­(2} the planning operation should be completely open--with all report.s being made available to the concerned constitutencies to allow for their reactive input; (3) that functional divisions should be respected insofar as possible in an effort to rna ximize the efficient use of functional interests and specializations; (4) that the planning committee establish a clear task demarcation between the responsibilities of on­going standing committees in the college and their counterparts in planning; (5) that task forces be given concise and unambiguous charges, and (6) that only the top of the com­mittee structure be established by Presidential appointment, leaving open the bottom of the committees for those who wish to enlist their services. 
Membership on the PLANNING COMMITTEE and on the Area Committees in by Presidential appointment. Committee Members were selected through consultation with numerous individuals representing all facets of the college. Area Committee Chairmen and their Vice Chairmen were given an opportunity to assist in the selection of Members of Members of their Committtee. 
Most Area Committees will coordinate the activities of a number of Task Forces. The Task Forces presently planned include: 
Academic Concerns 
1. 
Academic Climate 

2. 
Admissions Policies and Requirements 

3. 
Major and Degree Requirements 

4. 
Student Evaluation and Grading Policies 

5. 
Evaluation of Faculty and Courses 

6. 
Methods of Instruction 


1. Learning Services and Facilities 
a. Curriculum--College and Departmental 
9. Registration and Course Scheduling overseas and Internship Programs · 
11. 
Honors, Recognitions and Awards 

12. 
Continuing Education and Adult Education Programs 

13. 
Professional and Pre-professional Programs 

14. 
Summer Session and Summer Programs 

15. 
Interinstitutional Programs and Arrangements 

16. 
Programming 



PIMINING l'P..O'·:::ss {Core Slr.1r.:t"r·e) 
L ---·-·-1-----,IPRES r;n:::r
Edwiiid'L'~-"H;,,ry 
r-------.=I_______ ·­
PIA~'NI!'IG CU!'!'fiTTEI> --c-h~i-nnan-­
JP.". Donald N. M. Horntne Vic•) Cltaf rman Sist(!l' H. l\asil A11thony, C.S.C. 
l'.!!.£!.£!:!!Y 
Mr. john .T. He£ 
SUBC~ll_1_TF!l_O!~ FINANCIAL P!lOJrCTIONS
Area Com:•.li_t tee Cha il£!Cr& 
Chnirrr:m·-·-..

Area Committee Vice Ch«irmen Additicn~l Appointed Mc"'bers ~!r. J, D."'"'~cr, Jrj 

AREA CO.'IHITl'ZE 
~I':EJ. co;•XITTE~ 
ON 

ON 
STIJT>E:ri LIFE 
FACULTi-AHAI~S 
-chah1uau 
ct.ainw.n 
Miss 1.. E. ~!u lauey 
Mr. ~d-r~lller 
Vice r.haim.an · Vice Chainuan 
Mi~s Susan~lte 
t<!r. !1. James Pani'd is 
L......-----·------' 
c--------·--=--. .:=1----=,
·t-_:r~.  ~'~~~~  .  - ~-­ A:t&P.  CMIIT'J'U:  
ON  ~  
_fiDliJ~.\J•. Rt~llR'P.l''ENTS C:ha; r.nc n Y.r. Ja~;~.:~.t--o:-L"i-;:i'""·c.:, Jr,  DEI!El..O"'EN'f Cl~~ {::;,.:i:'i'"" SiHter K. llv.il~-.\tlwny, C • .!. .r..  
V~~e  C~fusu"  Vir:P.  C.heft'l'l~n  
Dx.  ~:..rk  J...  ll:u:w\!:1'!\c  Hrf'. 'l"i~.•ti•y !'. G~-l,·!r, ...1::. -----------·-·---... --· -­ ~ ..  


Chairman ofthe PlanningCommittee 
Student Life 
1. 
Health Services 

2. 
Counseling, Advising and Career Service 

3. 
Financial Aid, Work Study, Scholarships 

4. 
Orientation Programs 

5. 
Hall Life .nd Activities 

6. 
Campus Life and Recreation 

7. 
Campus Ministry 

8. 
Day Student Life and Activities 

9. 
Board and Food Services 

10. 
Student Governance 

11. 
Grievance and Appeal Systems, Judicial Systems 


Faculty Affairs 

1. 
Rank, Tenure and Promotion 

2. 
Faculty Recruitment Policies-Procedures 


3. 
Faculty Services--Secretarial, Duplicating, Departmental 

4. 
Research and Professional Services-Policies 

5. 
Economic Affairs 

6. 
Part-Time Faculty 

7. 
Faculty Committee Structure 



Governance 
1. Administrative Manuals and , 'Gover­nance 
IJA. Faculty Governance and Manuals 

3. Departmental Structure and Governance PhysicaI Resources 
1. 
Facilities and Space Utilization 

2. 
Equipment Needs 


3. 
Services-Housekeeping, Security, Main­tenance, Grounds 

4. 
Staff Policies 



. Task force membership will be under the jurisdiction of the Area Committee Chairmen and Vice Chairmen. Faculty, students and administrators who wish to work on a Task Force are invited to submit their names to the Area Chairmen. 
The first meetings of the Planning and Area Committees are scheduled for Saturday, Sep­tember 23. · The schedule for the meetings follows: 
lO:OOam Planning CommittE!Ie 
Meeting 
12:00 noon Planning Committee Luncheon 
1:30 pm Planning Committee and Area Qommittee Assembly 2:00pm Area Committee Meetings 4:00pm Social Hour 
The PLANNING COMMITTEE office is in 

Room 125, Madeleva Hall. Anyone wishing in­formation should feel free to contact Dr. Donald N. M. Horning, 284-t056 or the Planning Com­mittee Office, 284-4937, between t-5 p.m., daily. 
Thursday, September 21, 1172
14 
the observer 
SMC to survive 
Advantages of St. Mary's College 

'We could have offered every student the best of both worlds.' 
Dr. Mary Alice Cannon 
VP for Student Affairs 
by Michael Baum Observer Staff Reporter 
l \ # Less than one year ago, one could well believe that the very existence of St. Mary's College rested upon corporate merger with that in­
I 
dustrial giant, the University of Notre Dame. Times change, and although within recent memory the "unmerger" was drawing cries of anguish and massive requests for transfer papers. it now seems very premature to hang crepe over LeMans Hall. 
There is a general feeling of optimism, hard to express, that St. Mary's can and will survive. Survive? Improve in her chosen role as a small, private, Catholic women's liberal arts college. _ The emphasis is on the new, more visible woman in today's society. The approach is through the class advantage of a small college-­the ability to provide individualized attention. Miss Kathleen Mulaney, Dean of Students, notes. "I think the whole impetus of education at St. Mary's is to make education as individualized and personalized for each person as is needed." 
This theme is recurrent. Read the Resident Assistant's handbook for St. Mary's: "The primary responsibility of the residence hall staff is one of service to the student. ... l. Students are individuals and should be treated as such. 2. The individual student must be viewed and treated as a whole personality. 3. Work with students must take into account their existing level of development, needs, interests and problems." 
'We are not comparing like 
institutions -St. Mar..,'s is a 
' 

small. liberaf arts college; 
Notre Dame is a university.' 
But what about the ballyhooed competition from a coed Notre Dame? The theory is that St. j Mary's offered an alternative. Says V.P. for 
l ) 
Student Affairs, Mary Alice Cannon, "We are not comparing· like institutions--Saint Mary's is a small liberal arts college; Notre Dame is a 
l university. Their thrusts are in different ) directions. It is like comparing a 747 jet with a Beechcraft--each can do things the other can't. ~ In no way is this a criticism of either institution." 
j 
) 
~ 
She is echoed by Mulaney: "You should have the choice of a college or a university; the wish to go to an all-woman or all-male or coed in­stitution." It is for this reason she regrets the failed merger. "We could have offered every student the best of both worlds." 
A reflection of women emerging in society, the teaching of "useful skills" is emphasized as well as the traditional "liberal arts educa~ion." "St. Mary's is going to be concerned with giving the graduate the broad base of a liberal education background plus some skills that are marketable," according to Mulaney. "Our graduates will ue able to earn their own living if that should become necessary and .... to live qualitatively with her liberal arts background," she added. 
Dr. Cannon points out both the self-fulfillment and economic rationales for such education: "We have figures from the Labor Department that 95 percent day college students are going to be working whether or not they marry. There are three reasons for this. 
There is, perhaps, a broadening feminine "conciousness," in the words of last year's 
Celebration of Self". Psychology and Sociology both offer courses directed · specifically to women; freshman orientation includes a series of films and discussions on ' Women in Society." 
Welte observes, "The whole notion of women doing other things <outside the pall of traditional roles) is a role the College must provide, and I think they see it." 
'The prevailing attitude 
is that we are open to 
change... ' 

"The prevailing attitude is that we are open to change, "she remarked, "and we are going to meet the needs that necessitate change." 
Kathleen Mulaney Dean of Students 



SBVP Sue Welte 
It is difficult to fully assess and report the 

feelings hopes and attitude of an entire in­stitution. but perhaps Miss Welte's words sum­marize well, "I think we are off to a really good start." 
"One, the higher costs of goods and services, of health care,..of what our American Culture has deemed the necessities of life mean that the one­paycheck household is not enough. 
."Two, labor devices have taken the time and effort out of housework, and perhaps most im­portantly, three, because of their education their restless intelligence is going to want to work, either in paying jobs or in community service .vork. I thing most important is the need to us~ their education." 
Such 'are the hopes and theories of ad­m.in.istrators They are perhaps professiona,lly optimistic, yet much the same feeling seems· to exist at a student level. Student Body Yice­president, Sue Welte mused, "There's something unique here -the size ' of the school, I'm sure, plays a great deal into it -the sense of the community." 
'I see a very definite 
change, a very 

optimistic student body.' 
Welte agrees that there is a change from the days of merger negotiation: "I see a very d£-finite change, a very optimistic student body._ 
... We've gone through so much two ad­ministrations and into a third, the coexchange program, and this year I see an optimistic student body in the sense that the college has finally come to terms with itself-it has a sense of direction.'' 
"The college has come to the realization that it must define itself as it~ own institution ... the students are·no longer in a limbo state; they, too, have a definite di,.ection," she added. 

Thursday., September 21, 1972 
the observer 1 5 

•




1ew oint 

Fr. James T. Burtchciell 
In Loco Parentis Part 2 

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH 

again the beetles: how apple went rotten 


. .This is the second and last part of the article by Fr. Burtchaell which appeared in the August issue of Notre Dame Magazine. 
In yesterday's installment Burtchaell discussed some of the changing patterns of university life that accompany the decline of the legal doctrine: in loco parentis. He also began to redefine the term in his own personal context and in the greater context of Notre Dame. ed. 
A letter I received just this summer from a mother of a graduating senior also gave me much though: 
His father died when he was only two years old. Believe me it has been a struggle for me: no oil, no water, no lights, no telephone. no car. I had to walk for miles to get anything, rain, sleet, or snow. But I did it. His father was in the hospital for two years before he died. 1 walked twenty miles to work at night to work 12 midnight to 8 
a.m. in order to have food and clothing for him. He is one that has had it very hard, though I don't mind, 1did not mind it in the least. Father, ever since he made the tour out to Notre Dame with the senior class here at ---~· ------High School, he wanted to go there. So he said, "Mom, I want to work to get some money to be able to go out there. So he had a push mower and he went around and asked people to let him cut their grass for $1.25 an acre in the blazing sun, May, June, July, and August and some in Sep­tember. He got me to let him get a boat so he could go oystering in the evenings when he got home from school and on Saturdays. Then some days he would trim fences for people, dig ditches and so forth, in order to get money to be able to go to college. So, Father, his hard labor did work out. He began work when when he was only 7 years 
Alternative Features Service 

"I don't care too much for money. Money can't buy me love." sang the Beatles in 1964. 
But as everyone now knows, the Beatles became big stars and earned a lot of money. They packaged love in a series of record albums that have caused enthusiasts to compare them with Shakespeare and Dante, then started their own business and soon broke up. . 
The authors of a new paperback entitled Apple to the Coreseem to think it vital th~t the inside facts of this story be known. Thetr book, therefore, the tale of how Apple went rotten, is a drama of emotiOns and frustrations, with the almighty dollar as the tragic flaw. 
Peter McCabe, native Liverpudlian .and a contributing editor of Rolling Stone, provides the insight into Liverpool's dull gray atmosphere and shows how the Beatles, four shabby leather boys who could 
old to try and help me to pay the many bills that I had. He has been a wonderful boy and is still. He also worked seven days a week to help pay for the tuition and clothes. You know there is no student that would give seven days a week allsum mer in order to get. an education, but he did. 
A letter like this from a lady I don't even know makes me proud for her, but also reminds me of the professor who has had to feed his nine children on powdered milk and eggs for quite a few years and of the other professor who once had to read gas meters during the summer because his teacher's salary was so meager, and of the priests who spend their lives in a single room on this campus. 
Two years ago, one priest on campus received a letter from a recent graduate continuing his studies elsewhere, a letter not unlike that which parents might receive from a son who has appreciated home and family only after leaving them. 
I've many good things to say about my four years at Notre Dame---typically they center on the people who teach there. I owe much to you, Father, and 1 want to thank you for your friendship and concern---I want to thank you for your love. 
These past weekdays I've been reflecting 
on  the  education  I  received  at  N.D.  -­ 
particularly  in  comparison  to  what  I'm  
doing  now.  (I'll  explain  the  immediate  

events of my life later---suffice to say for now I'm at studying Public Administration.) The great thing about being here as opposed to N.D. is that at-­
I'm different. In discussions and seminars 1 find that what 1 contribute generally is unique and peculiar from the offerings of those surrounding me. People are genuinely surprised at what I have to say --I really don't think they've .en­countered many people who view social 
make music, brightened things u~. The~ 
enlivened a prnvincial English city, only to­
be won awa~from the whole world's con­
sumption by Brian Epstein, who "cleaned" 
the boys up, negotiated their success, and 
kept them together despite the crushing 
pressures of the big-time. 
Most of this has already been documented in two previous biographies of the Beatles. The more recent developments, involving Allen Klein (the all-business manager who took over the Beatles and Apple) are related with much "inside" dope on the boring and interminable litigation between John Lennon and Paul McCartney. Co-author ­Robert Schonfeld, a student of business administration, has contributed his knowledge of business relations to ~is section, citing all the statistics to brmg home the nalced truth about where everyon­e's heads ended up. The book abounds with references to the Beatles' materialism­even George "Beward of Maya" Harrison's fondness for psychedelic mansions--and 
Allen Klein' comes across as the greasiest most obnoxiously scheming, wheeling-and­dealing manager since P. T. Barnum. 
All right, suppose the book tells the truth about all this. What purpose does it serve beyond that? 

lynne bronstein 
Every so often, a book or article is writt~n that attempts to "expose" the pop mustc industry for the money-making machine that it is. Yet such writing is often hostile t(\ the music itself while barely scratching the surface of the existing corruption. 
What happened to the Beatles, as described in Apple to the Core, is happening to all the performers we know and love--but you won't learn that from this book. McCabe and Schonfeld "exprose" the history of corruption in Sergeant Pepper's Land without much comment on the more general problems of show business or the broader characteristics of the rock sub­culture. 
In Apple to the Core We learn that the Beatles may have been unleashed on ­America at an opportune time: the recent assassination of John F. Kennedy, the idol of idealistic youth, left open a gap that almost any new idol could have filled. We learn also that the Beatles were unglamorous and rough in their Cavern days, that Linda Eastman was a society girl who became a ­groupie, that Yoko Ono "turned on" John Lennon like acid all over again. Somehow these facts seem more instructive, overall, than Schonfeld's statistics and summations 
of maneuvers in court. 

Burtchaell: in loco parentis redefined as an essential task of the university community. 
problems et al. from a spiritual viewpoint. I suspect they feel I'm a bit odd and ec­centric. For these reasons 1 guess Notre Dame is one ofthe last places I want to be at now. I really feel what you constantly came back to in discussion about Notre Dame --we were a rather unusual group of people with something very unique and rare to offer those we encounter.... 
It seems really strange that my reaction to graduation has been counter to what I expected. Instead of nostalgia and melancholy 1 feel very happy and am at ease. I've done some very good things this summer--not the least of which is to feel a degree of self-acceptance that I've never felt before. 
At Notre Dame we assume the bur­
densome task of standing in loco parentis. 
We need not. To assume the strictly 
academic responsibility that most schools 
do would spare us much wrangling, much 
heartburn, even much disappointment. Yet 
we try to be more thoroughgoing in our gifts 
and our service. It is an uncanny thing to try 
to be the father of a 21-year-old boy-man. 
Some men fail; others succeed; most of us 
do some of both. There are as many styles 
as fathers, and as many different needs as 
sons. 
Because we accept this larger charge, the natural parents of our students demand much of us. All too often at Freshman Orientation I sense fathers and mothers desperately hoping that in a few short years we shall somehow be able to undo any negligence or failure they have been guilty of during the past 18 years. And alumni -­espe·cially those who have not yet been sobered by having their own children pass through these restless years, or who have forgotten how it was, or have raised their children entirely differently than they themselves were raised, and then expect us in some crazy fashion to be able to impose upon their sons the same style of discipline they lived under 30 years earlier--well, some of these alumni can write some unreasonable letters at times. 
But let me not end on a note of complaint. With god's grace and our effort we try as parents do to help boys (and now girls) into manhood <and womanhood). This is no small ambition. After having made even a career out of what is most people's great work in life, we would not, I believe, choose to stand elsewhere than in loco parentis. God help us. 
(Reprinted with the permission of Notre Dame Magazine.) 
Money itself is hardly the only problem affecting rock (or society as a whole.) The causes that lead Beatles to break up and F­illmores to close and rock festivals tobecome riots and loud unoriginal groups to flourish and more and more fans to get high on the wrong kinds of drugs system from political and social conditions as much as they do from the influence of money alone. 
A prominent film critic, after seeing Gimme Shelter, remarked that to refer to the Altamont disaster as "the Pearl Harbor of Woodstock Nation" was ridiculous. A generation, he pointed out, is not born and destroyed within four months. Woodstock and Altamont should be looked at as two events during a period of time in which it was possible for the same event to be either good or bad. He concluded that the people who made Woodstock good were around before and would still be around afterwards, and of course the same could be said of the bad. 
Keeping this in mind, Apple to the Core can be read to found out how money can be a problem in the lives of any dedicated ar­tists but don't get lost in those facts and forget about racism, sexism, hedonism and nihilism, those demons that are feeding on ­~he world as a whole. 

16 
the observer Thursday, September 21, 1972 

lew breakthrough at ND 
Waste treatment system demonstrated 

by Marlene Zloza 
Observer Staff Writer 

A completely new waste water treatment system was successfully demonstrated at Notre Dame Wednesday by the Ecology Division of Telecommunications Industries Inc. (Til). 
In an afternoon demonstration 
held at the pilot plant located adj­
acent to Carroll Hall, Mr. John M. 
Periale, V. P. Operations-Ecology 
Division, Til, explained the 
systems' operation to the public. 
The Ecology Division of Til is 
responsible for the design and 
construction of the actual plants on 
the sites selected. A second team 
of scientists and engineers at Notre 
Dame is concerned with continued 
evaluation and improvement of 
the system. 
Test runs made 

Test runs of the pilot plant on 
NO's sewage system by the Til 
engineering staff and the ND 
research team have shown that the 
combination of ozone and sonics is 
effective in the reduction of waste 
water contaminants. The various 
contaminant characteristics being 
studied include biological oxygen 
demand, chemical oxygen 
demand, bacteria, phosphates, and 
suspended solids. 
Notre Dame faculty working with Til on this project include: Dr. Don A. Linger, Chairman, Civil Engineering; Dr. Wayne Eche­lberger, Jr., Assoc. Professor, Civil (Sanitary) Engineering; Dr. Frank Verhoff, Assistant Profess­or Chemical Engineering; Dr. ­M~rris Pollard, Chairman, Department of Microbiology; Dr. Joseph Hogan, Dean, College of 
Engineering; Dr. Ray Brach, 
Associate Professor, Aerospace 
and Mechanical Engineering; and 
Dr. Philip Singer, Assistant 
Professor CjvU Engineering. 
Sewage water run through the three-stage pilot plant emerged as "potable" and "sparkling." Important factors of the treated water as shown Wednesday were the crystal clarity, absence of odor in the processed water and lack of need for chlorine. To dramatize the purity of the water, Mr. Periale pointed out a fish tank filled with the processed water. Clearly visible in the tank was a group of 
healthy r-looking goldfish s­wimming around contentedly. 
The pilot Til Sonozone waste water plant is built in three sec­tions. 
In the first or primary treatment section, from 60 to 70 percent of the solid content is removed from sewage water. The second stage consists primarily of a large mechanical filtering area which further purifies the water. Suspended solids are removed and most of the organic waste oxidized into harmless carbon dioxide. 
Lastly, the patented Sonozone process •combining, sonics and ozone, by removing and killing bacteria virus substances and oxidizing highly resistant chemicals to either gaseous or otherwise removable end products, performs final purification. 
Particles broken 
In the Sonozone process, ultrasonic destruction first brakes particles down, enlarges the amount of surface area presented ­to the ozone, and allows the ozone to act efficiently. 
This combination treatment produces effluent water with purity exceeding the existing and proposed standards of the EPA. 
Studies are also underway at 
Lobund Laboratory to determine 
the efficiency of the Til waste 



Voting dates 

~ptember 23 Sat. 
Last day a voter may register or transfer his registration before any Depty Registration Officer. 
pctobef' 10 Tuesday 
FirM day a voter may personally procure and vote a regular absent i'Joters ballot at the County Clerk's office in the county of what voter's residence 
Last day a voter may register before the general elections and such 
registration  must be  at  the office of  the county board of  voter  
egistration.  
November 4  Saturday  

Last day a voter may personally procure and vote a regular absent voter's ballot at the County Clerk's office in the county of that voter's residence. 
Last day a voter may make application for regular absent voters 
~allot. 
~ovember 7 Tuesday 
General Election Day---Polls open from 6 A.M. to 6 P.M. 
I 

r'< ( Music grant awarded 
A $2,500 gift from Louis Sudler, the symphonyEs String Quartet is ~ Chicago businessman and vocalist sponsored by the Department of 
f with the Symphony Orchestra, will Misic and is open to the public< be used by the Department of without charge. 
Music at the University of Notre ~ Dame to establish an audio-visual 
program for students of music
) 

education. 
< 

~-. The program's director, James 
l~) 

S. Phillips, assistant professor of music, said the new course of study is designed to develop the per­formance techniques of prospective teachers of the oboe 
J and bassoon instruments. 
i 

L Sudler, who will be making his 
third guest appearance in a con­! cert at 8:15 pm Thursday (Sep­I tember 21) in Notre Dame's
' 
I_ 

Memorial Library auditorium is a 
)~ 

musician businessman-civic L leader-philanthropist. He is 
) 

president of the Chicago Sym­phony Orchestra Asociation and
l. host of the prize winning NBC l television program, "Artist's 
) 

Showcase." His appearance with 
) 
water treatment system in inac­tivating viruses. Much of the current technical literature in­dicates that sonics removes viral coatings, allowing ozone to inac­tivate viruses. Dr. Pollard is directing this phase of study. 
The practicality of the Til system is based on improved in­stallation, power usage, raw materials and land space needs. 
Installation reduces to a matter of days as compared to months for traditional systems. The entire Til system is transportable by van, erected on-site by standard equipment with a minimum of special handling and simple foundation work. 
lbw material :air 
Air is the raw material for ozone production as opposed to chlorine, and since handling air is almost effortless, the entire Sonozone process is economically ad­vantageous compared to the chlorine system. 
.,. By reducing horizontal dimer..:nons in every stage of the Til waste water system, the amount of area required for each treatment step has been reduced to a small fraction of the space needed for traditional treatment systems. 
Angus D. Henderson, consulting engineer from Henderson and Casey, is working directly with Til in the development of this system. According to Henderson, "the Sonozone system will have ap­plication in housing developments, municipal sewage plants, lake 
water purification, ships, trailer camps, ski resorts, and other 'community-sized establish­ments."' 
The Til Ecology Division is presently taking orders for systems able to handle the domestic wates of about 50 to 2,000 mobile homes, 200 to 3,000 stan­dard dwelling units, and up to 500,000 gallons per day outflow from some small industrial systems. 

N D introduced to the world a revolutionary new waste treatment center. The system uses sound and ozone to purify water. 
In addition, the Til system will 
undergo further evaluation and 
adaptation over the next two years 
to enable it to cope with highly 
toxic industrial wastes. 
Those present for the demon­stration' Wednesday included Mr. AI Roche, Chairman of the Til Board; press representation from Chicago, New Jersey and New York, and several prospective financial supporters. Headquartered in Copiague, Long Island, New York, Telecom­munications Industries, Inc. manufactures and markets electrical and electronic com­ponents for use in communications and related areas. With its new Sonoze system, Til has now en­tered the field of waste water pollution treatment. 

CHICAGO BLACK HAWKS 
VS.DALLAS 
SATURDAY, SEPT. 23rd 8:30 p.111. 
Tonite at Dillon NOTRE DAME 
c01\?cfn18•'-'NTER 
8:30pm
AU SEATS RESERVED Prices: ADULTS •••$3.50 

Featuring: 12 liD 
CHJLDIEII 


u.. ,.• 
Coach George Kelly 
Tickets on sale 
Coach Wally Morre Capl Greg Marx 
at Ace 
Capl John Dampeer Punter Brian Doherty
Mon.-Sat. 9-5 
and 
The Nation's No. 1 Cheerle.aders 
also at Gate 3, one hour 
before game 
On campus mail 

Rocket Man... 
On Campus Mail will resume this Thursday according to Student Union Services Commissioner 

The Original Flamer.
Walt Swarc. 
Pick -ups on the mail service will be twice a day and delivery will be that same day or the next. Anyone 
Follow Him and His willing to help at St. Mary's should contact Swarc at 234-5566 or 7757. 
Dills
The service is free-no stamps are necessary and mail can be dropped at any of the three boxes around campus---outside the 
To The First Rallydining halls and outside the Student Union. 
of the Year 
J l,. 
}: 
) 

.................-----------------------------------.----------------~·
Thursday, September 21, 1972 the observer 17 

concession stand rules 
Because of the interest various student organizations hav@ shown in OPerating hot dog or similar concession stands ·an the campus on home football game Saturdays as a fund raising project it Is necessary to establish a policy based upon the University guide lines which regulate mer­chandising by students. 
1. 
Permits to operate any type of concession stand on the campus on football Saturdays will be granted only to residence hall student governments and to registered student organizations. Permits will not be given to individuals who plan to operate a concession for the profit of themselves apart from a registered student group. 

2. 
Residence halls located on the south and main quads may operate one (1) stand per hall. The stand must be located within 80 feet of the sponsoring hall so as not to in­terfere with the location of another group's concession. The dormitory student governments can be expected to supervise the operation of thse stands. For the purpose of this par­ticular project, residence halls not located on the south or 


main quads will  be considered  to  be  registered  campus  
organizations.  
3. Registered  student organizations  include all  student  
sponsored clubs  that  have  registered  with  the Office of  

Student Activities for the 1972-73 academic term. 
4. 
Application for a permit to operate a concession stand on campus durino the home football Saturdays must be com­pleted and returned to the Office of Student Activities by 5 pm, Friday, September 23. No student or group may oper~tP a concession without first having received permission of the Office of Student Activities to do so. Failure to comply with this University regulation will result in formal disciplinary action. 

5. 
Depending upon the number of residence halls and registered student organizations that indicate an interest in operating a fund raising concession, a lottery method will be used to match the interested student organizations probable locations for stands, and the available football game dates. 



(c) New York Times 

St. Louis, Sept. 20--Vice President Agnew today called national defense the "overriding" issue in the 1972 election and ac­cused Sen. George McGovern of advocating positions that would reduce American military options to only one: nuclear retaliation. 
While is was not the first time Agnew has criticized the Democratic presidential nominee's proposals to reduce military spending by $32 billion, it was the len_gthiest and most detailed critique of his campaign thus far. 
In a speech to more than 1,000 
O'Brien asks 3.2 billion 
Walcrgatesuit names Stans 
<c> 1972 New York Times 
Washington, Sept. 20-A federal judge ruled today that Maurice H. Stans, President Nixon's chief campaign fund-raiser, could be namedby attorneys for Lawrence 
F. O'Brien as a defendant in a revised, $3.2 billion suit arising from the Watergate break-in. 
At the same time, however, Federal District Judge Charles R. Richey granted a motion to dismiss an earlier civil action by O'Brien, the former Democratic Party Chairman, against five men arrested during the June 17 raid on the Democrats' Headquarters in the Watergate complex. 
The amended complaint, which in addition to Stans named as defendants Hugh W. Sloan, Jr. the former Nixon Campaign treasurer, and G. Gordon Liddy and E. Howard Hunt, Jr., both former white house aides, is thus the Democratic party's only remaining legal action in the matter. 
The suit, filed today, accused Stans and Sloan of having passed to Liddy $114,000 in Nixon cam­paign contributions "for the purpose 
of financing the activities ot tne espionage squad" which allegedly carried out wire-tapping and other surveillance operations against the 

1111111111111II111111111111 II IIIIIIllIllIII IIIII II Ill11111111111111 II II IIIII Ill111111 II IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUI II Ill 
he did not mention the so-called 
NixonDoctrine--the President's 
stated intention to reduce Am­

the issue staff: 
erican military presence abroad and rely on other nations to par­ticipate in peace-keeping en-

Nite Editor: Anthony Abowd Ass't Nite Editors: Art Esposito, george lund Design: Nic Catrambone, Sue Prendergast, Lynn DiGiulio, Dianne 
Design Your Own 

Chermside, Tim Neuville Typists: Mark Neiderkorn, John Flannigan, Modglin, Orshei~ 
Personalized Shirt 

Nite Controller: Steve Roper . 
Headliner: Don Biancamano 
from Our Selection

Pictureman: Bob Hughes Sports Nite Editor: Vic Dorv Special Supplement: Anthony Abowd, Maria Gallagher, Joe Abell 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 II 11111111 IIIII 1111111111111 Ill11111111111111 II11111111 II11111111111 IIIIIIIIll 
INeed Economical Transportation? Wilson Driveaways Has It 
Ifyou need a car to drive on any trip outside a 200 mile radius call Wilson's. The only requirements are that you must be 21 and have a valid Driver's License. 
For Additional Information Call: Murph 3530 Kevin 3460 

Bob 3670 
_L____________________ 




hits McGovern 
rotary club members from· this front of the state capitol was metropolitan area, the Vice predominantly and exhuberantly President said McGovern's ''fright Republican.
ening" policies would slash Agnew was to address the conventional military capability to convention later tonight before a pre-Pearl Harbor level and flying back to Washington to thereby pose a -threat to its remain overnight and resum his ­national secutity. campaign tomorrow in Tennessee. 
His address to the rotarians was "I can't question his the final public appearance here <McGovern's) sincerity," the Vice before flying to Columbus, Ohio, President said in this city in his 
where he was greeted warmly by a speech to the combined rotarycrowd estimated at 5,000 people, clubs of St. Louis. "'But I totallymany of them attending the state's disagree with his conclusion. It Republican convention there. must be based on the assumption
There were a few anti-Agnew that we're nevf'r again going to signs and a smattering of boos, but face the challenge of a limited, the large crowd gathered at the non-nuclear war. It guarantees we president William McKinley in can't fight such a war." 
Agnew, on the second day of his formal campaign, said later that Democrats during a six-wekk period in May and June. 
seven indicted 
Last week, a federal grand jury indicted Hunt, Liddy and the five arrested men on ·charges~ of conspiring to obtain and use in­formation gleaned from overheard telephone and other conversations and from documentsstolenfrom the party's files. But the eight-count indictment did not indicate how the operation was finished or to whom, if anyone, the stolen information was passed. 
The $114,000 in the form of five checks that Sloan has said he gave to Liddy, then general counsel for the Finance Committee to Re­Elect the President, were later deposited in a bank account con­trolled by Bernard L. Barker, one of the five men arrested in the raid. 
The suit dismissed today by Judge Richey was an earlier class­action filed by O'Brien, on behalf of all Democrats, charging Barker and the four others involved in the break-in with trepass and invasion of privacy. 
Earlier this month, Henry B. Rothblatt of New York, the att­orney for the five defendants, moved to dismiss the complaint on 

defense 
terprises--in his speech, "because 
that  philosophy and  a  strong  n­ 
ational  defense  are  not  in­ 
compatible."  

That explanation was off~red during a news conference following his speech he also said that in a st.atf'mP.nt in Minneaoolis the ground that O'Brien, who had resigned as party chairman to head Sen. George McGovern's presidential campaign, no longer had the necessary legal standing to sue on bebalf of the broadly defined class. 
The judge gave O'Brien's lawyers until Sept. 11 to file their reply to Rothblatt's motion, but they chose instead to reply with the amended suit naming Stans, arguing that this rendered Roth­blatt's motion moot. 
The new suit narrows the class on behalf of which O'Brien is suing to include only those persons who engaged in speech within the Democratic offices or talked by telephone to anyone there. 
Edward Bennett Williams, the lawyer representing O'Brien, had sought to include the names of the five original defendants in the new complaint, but today Judge Richey dismmissed them as defendants in both actions on the technical ground that filing the amended suit had not been a proper response to Rothblatt's motion to dismiss. 
Joseph Califano, a partner in 
Williams' firm,  said today  he  
would  file  an  appeal  on  the  
dismissal.  



policy 
yesterday he had not advanced "as a serious theory" the idea that the men indicted for the burglary and­electron bugging of the Democratic headquarters in Washington were "set up" bu someone intent on embarrassing theRepublican Party. 


~) 
·SEPT. 22 -FRIDAY 8:00 P.M.· 
FIRST NOTRE DAME 

INTER-LEAGUE SKATING GAME! 
PIONEERS WITH WESTON & ROBINSON THUND ERBIRDS WITH HARDMAN & VALlADERES 
NOTRE DAME CONVOCATION CENTER 
PIONEERS VS. THUNDERBIRDS 
_____·___________ Lower Arena ______________ Loge & Platforms ___________ 
Tickets on Sale At ACC 9-5. 
ND-SMC Student, Faculty, Staff 
$1.00 Discount on $3 and $4 tickets 
B 
[] 
D 
K 

5 
All types of t-shirts 
and ierseys. Many 
T 
colors to pick from. Your choice of numbers, 
D 
letters, N. D. Emblems 
and designs. We print 
R 
almost anything. See 
our large selection. 
E 
Open Mon.-Sat. 
9:00am to 5:00pm 



Thursday, September 21, 1972
1 8 the observer 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUIIIIIUlllllllUWUUWUII---------------~ 
Logan Center I 

I­
Volunteers 
-
by John Stelma 

-

Tne ND-SMG Council for the 
-­

--
-
volunteer organization working -­with Logan Center, which is ---­located just a few yards south of ­the campus, to serve the needs of the retarded children and adults in the South Bend Community. Through an environmentally = 
= 
-
enriched program, the volunteers 
help the retarded individual to ~ explore a world full of experiences, = activities and inter-relationships _ which may make it possible for the = 
retarded to grow to his optimum ~ and become an accepted member 15 of the community. § 
Motivated by a desire to both = teach and learn from the retarded, : -­the volunteer and society must =: --­

-
grow toward an understandmg and i acceptance of the mentally s retarded as a un~que human being s 
1
with both his realistic strengths 5 
--
-
-
-
-
--
-
-
and weakness . The mentally ~ 
-
5
retarded person must be treated as 
a friend that he really is and pride 5 must be shown in his ac-5 
complishments and a tolerance for §5
his shortcomings. We must grasp 
5
an appreciation of the beauty and mystery behind the truth that each 5 
-
-
-
of us unfolds in his own manner, in S
---§
his own time and in his own space. 
-
The retarded chua·s needs are S 
personal adjustment, social § adaptation, emotional controls, 5 
physical growth and development, §! and finally practical knowledge 5 
taught and put to use. It is im-§! 
perative that the child's total §! environment be designed to S provide an atmosphere for lear-§ ning in which he can individually ~ succeed and where self-:: !actualization, self-confidence, and E self-expression can be stimulated. § We must realize their failure to :: Jearn often reflects our failure to :: teach. 5 
-
A definition given for mental 5 retardation refers to "subaverage 5 general intellectual functioning 5 which originates during the 5 developmental period and is 5 associated with impairment in 5 adaptive behavior." It is 5 estimated that only one quarter of 5 the cases of diminished intellectual 5 
-
-
-
-
5 

capacity can be traced to fault: 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
genes, virus infections,accidents 5 and diseases causing brain ~ damage before birth or in early = inf8ncy. The rest may be victims of social, cultural, and. en-­
=
VIronmental depriVation am.. u.tding motivational and emotional dif­
ferences and not a function of innate deficiencies. Mentally ­retarded children behave the way they do because of the things that : have happened to them in their lifetimes 55 
-
Efforts rewarded 
Virtually all retarded children can profit from educational ex­
periences and we should never put 
any limitations on them. We can 
-
-
-
-
-
-
only say where the child is now and 
then take a step forward into the 
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
joyful and illuminating world of 
learning which will be geared to 
the particular student"s special 
needs. We must teach them simply 
to 
be whole, blossoming happy 
individuals. What the child is, is 
always coming to life. All that is 
required to be a volunteer is time, 
I 
patience, love and warm :.m­
~ 
derstanding. All that these children want is love-the love that = = 
demonstrates care, concern and interest. In return they will give ---­
-
you farmore love than any normal -­
-
child and a deeper appreciation of --­

-
-
-
-
life. 

-
As long as there are people who ­
-
-
-
-
are willing to judge human character by its depth and capacity to love, there will always 
be volunteers to help the retarded children and adults. There will be a meeting for both old and new volunteers 
on 
~ 
Monday, Sept. 18th 7:30 p.m. in room 118 of Nieuwland Science 
ALL STYLES EXCEPT CAPTAINS CHAIR 20 PER CENT
Hall. 

= 
For further information or if unable to attend, please contact Jack Greeley (234-2334) or John 
I


l~--0-F•F-W-•I•T•H-•T•H•E-P_R•E•S0111E..~~3!.w!u~.~:-~.-rr
Stelma<1786>

I 
z' 


Tom Clements will start Saturday 

I'Hall Soccer 
cerning times, dates, etc.
Further information may be obtained at the Interhall Office ­

The lnterhall Athletics Office C-4 in the A. C. C. has announced plans for its 1972 Soccer league. Rink Additions
Teams making up the league will 
be composed by hall, and are open Any St. Mary's or Notre Dame to all student except members of women who have some skating the soccer club. skill and would be interested in 
Team captains are asked to ~heering at the Irish hockey games submit their rosters by September should call Beth Ann at 4563 for 28, and will be later notified con-further information. 
Vic Dor r =:===============================~=~=~=~=~======================================~=~=~=~=~===~=====:=========================~= 
Only a Sophomore 


So now it's been confirmed. Mter a month and a half of spring practice, and more than a month of fall workouts, the Irish football team has a number one quarterback. 
The job will go to Tom Clements, a fHl, 187 pound sophomorP.A series of injuries to Cliff Brown, last year's regular, made the choice of Clements a near-certainty during the last several weeks of pre-season practice, but make no mistake about it. Clements did not win the position by default. He earned it, and he deserves it 
The McKee's Rocks, Pennsylvania native alternated with Brown at the controls of the first offense during spring practice, but neither of them showed enoughconsistenceto merit sole control of the reins of the number one team. 
Neither of them showed it, that is, until the Blue-Gold game. In that game, the final session of spring practice, Tom Clements was nothing short of sensational. He completed seven of ten passes, ran for touch­downs of three, four, and 52 yards, and led the first offense to touchdowns every time he was on the field. Following that performance, Head Coach Ara Parseghian rated Clements and Brown "even" going into fall practice. 
And fall practice saw Clements move-slowly and occasionally spec­tacularly--into a commanding positon in the quarterback derby. "Im­provement" and "learning" have been phrases often applied to the young quarterback this fall, and his performances of late have been so strong that Alex Agase. Northwestern's coach, informed Chicago sportswriters that "Tom Clements will start for Notre Dame." 
But Parseghian may have best summed up his second-year prospect when he said, "He has been gettingbettereach week. He has a great grasp of the system, he moves the team well, and he is an accurate passer. He doesn't have the game experience, but he seems to be able to get the job done." 
Clements, as Ara's remarks indicate, is an exciting player, and he is the type of quarterback who will fit well into NO's offense-oriented fall strategy. Comparisons of Clements with Irish great Joe Theismann were plentiful during spring practice (and were partially brought on because Clements was wearing Theisman 's old number seven jersey) but they were a bit premature. . 
For Clements, while being a quick and deceptive runner, and a better than adequate passer-he is extremely sharp in the 15-20 yard range-is still a sophmore, and he is yet to be tested under actual game conditions. 
Very little he went through as last year's freshman quarterback prepared him for what he will be facing Saturday afternoon in Evanston. Very little prepared him for the pressure, or for the near-sellout crowd that will be watching him in Dyche Stadium. 
As a freshman, Clements led his team to a 2-2 record, and his first year showing so parallelled Cliff Brown's (in 1970) that frosh coach Denny Murphy took pains to avoid any comparisons. 
"Tom Clements and Cliff Brown both did very similar-type jobs for 
, me," he said. "Their records against the same teams (Michigan State, Michigan, Tennessee) were identical (1-2) and I just don't want to compare them. Clements di a good job for me, but so did Cliff Brown. I'm not going to say that Clements is going to clear up our quarterback situation, and I sure don't want anybody thinking that Clements is going to be some kind of Saviour." The freshman coach .was partly off the mark-Tom Clements has, in­deed, cleared up Notre Dame's quarterback situation-but he was partly on, too. Casting Clements in the role of a miracle worker is unfair-both to the QB himself, and to the '72 Irish in general. Clements is a very good quarterback and an exceptional athlete, but being Notre Dame's number one signal caller as a sophmore is challenge enough-for anyone. Having to fill the role of a .. savior" at the same time is a bit too much to ask. 
. ' , ' . . . 
Thursday, September 21, 1972 
the observer 1 9 

Irish QB--it's Clements 
Now it's official -Tom Clements will be Notre Dame's · starting quarterback in Saturday's season opener against Northwestern in Evanston. 
Coach Ara Parseghian 's decision to give Clements, a sophmore, the go-ahead over junior Cliff Brown who started six games a year ago, had been expected for several days. 
ND harriers open today 
by John Wick 
The N~Jtre Dame cross-country team travels to Valparaiso University today for the first meet of its 1972 season. 
This meet will mark the opening of Coach Alex Wilson's last season as head coach of the track and cross-country teams and both he and the team seem eager to make this season one of the best. Coach Wilson is currently being assisted by Coach Don Faley, who will shoulder the coaching respon­sibilities upon Wilson's retirement at the close of the season. Faley is very pleased with the present arrangement and considers himself very lucky to have been given the opportunity to profit from Coach Wilson's experience in all areas of track and cross­country --particularly regarding knowledge of this year's squad. 
Coach Wilson has just returned from the Summer Olympic Games where he had the opportunity to be among and to talk with many nationally and internationally renowned track coaches. Con­sequently, he will initiate many of his own ideas, incorporated with some newly acquired concepts, into the training of the team. Both his interest and hopes for the team are extrememly high. 
The squad is also in excellent spirits, due in part to the en­thusiasm and determination of the captain, senior Dan Dunne. Dan, along with the rest of the team, has been developing steadily over the past four years and Coach Wilson feels that they now have the potential of establishing them­selves as powerful contenders in the field of cross-country run-~ ning. Providing strength and depth to this year's squad are returning senior lettermen Jeff Eichner, John Duffy and Roger Burrell, along with juniors Dave Bell and Marty Hill. Mike Gahagan, a sophomore who established himself last year as an 
outstanding runner returns along with prospectives Mike Housle)Bnd George Christopher. Rounding out the team is a fairly large number of freshman runners headed by standouts Jim Hurt, Greg Marino and Mark Armino. Hurt was the second place finished in the Illinois State Mile Championship in the time of 4:10. 
The team is out each morning at 
7:00 for a run around the lakes and then again at 4: 00 for their af­ternoon workout on the golf course. 
There they weave in and out among the golfers and manage to ­squeeze in a bit of sprint practice while dodgeing erratic golf ball~: 
ND's harriers are well con­ditioned, have good depth and plenty of capabilities and seem willing and anxious to combine their talents for a fine last seasim under Coach Wilson. 
Some highlights of the 1972. season will be the Notre Dame Invitational held here on the golf course on Oct. 13th, the Indiana State meet Oct. 27th at Lafayette, always a prestigious event, and the District Qualifying Meet for the NCAA finals. 
"We wanted to be fair in our Far from it. evaluation," Parseghian com-"Clements has looked great this mented after Wednesday's fall," according to Parseghian.
practice session on Cartier Field, "His passing and play conceptexplaining why the announcement have been great and, on the basis was delayed, "Cliff has been of his performance, he merits the 
handicapped by injuries this fall. starting assignment against He'sbeen hurt the last two weeks Northwestern.'' and that was a big factor in why As a freshman, Clements led the Clements got the job." Irish yearlings in total offense 
The McKee's Rocks Pa., soph while completing 48 of 98 passes for isn't backing into the job however. ·731 yards and four touchdowns. 
********************** 
There's dancing 
in the streets 
over the first issue 
of 
Irish Sports Weekly 
Available today at 
the North and South Dining Halls 
and The Observer office 
from 
11 : 1 5 to 1:00 

JUST lSc PER 1SSUEl or by Subscription: I semester -$1.50 on campus/ $3.00 by mail 1 year -$2.75 OD campus/ $6.00 by mail Delivered to your door ­Send To: The Observer Notre Dame, Ind. Name 
Address 
Thursday, September 21, 1972
the observer
20 
r-----------------------------------------------·-------­
First of year 
Observer ·ads pay off!!!!! 
One hurt in panty raid 

numerous screens having been pulled down at Holy Cross, and the 
CLASSIFIED ADS use of fire extinguishers by the students to spray into the hall's 
by Joseph Abell Managing Editor 
One mJury and several screenless windows at St. Mary's marked the aftermath of the first panty raid of the school year last night. 
David Hadley, a freshman in Holy Cross Hall, was admitted to South Bend Memorial Hospital with a dislocated shoulder. The hospital report lists him as at­taining this injury by being "pushed down" on the ground during the excitement. However, a conflicting report from the St Mary's Security says that he fell from a Holy Cross <St. Mary's) fire escape while attempting to climb into one of the windows. 
He was immediately released from the hospital. St. Mary's security also reported 

Cheerleaders get funds 
Something is better than nothing, reflects the financial aid which is finally reaching the ex­cellent Notre Dame cheerleading squad, which won first place last year in the National Cheering Foundation competition. 
Last year the cheerleaders financial assistance amounted to a grand total of $256 for cleaning their uniforms. All other expenses inclu4ing initial uniform cost and trip expenses were taken care of by the cheerleaders themselves. Complaints were filed and heard by Edward "Moose" Krause, head of the Athletic Department. 
'lbe Athletic Department has 
agreed to give the cheerleaders 
$1000 to $2500. Included in the 
Athletic Department's package 
• 
are coaching and insurance for the squad. 
Asked about the new aid, cheerleader Rooney Frailey replied, "The money should be more than enough to pay for our uniforms, but it won't pay for the trips." 
The situation isn't desparate, though. The cheerleaders plan to hitch rides to Michigan and take the student trip to Colorado. The trip to California for the Southern Cal game depends on the football team's record. 
The cheerleaders are presently under the Department of Student Affairs, but next year they will be directly under the Athletic Department. 


Students VIeW SLC 
by Lee Klosinski 
A random sampling of ND students about the nature of the Student Life Council shows a wide range of opinions on the role of this tri-partite committee. The SLC has been the object of recent criticism about its effectiveness. Elections for the student representation on the SLC are 
tsmw-row... 

' r" Suprisingly, ·very few freshmen asked what the SLC was. But some did. As expected the freshmen interviewed did not have definite opinions on the effectiveness of the SLC. Opinion from students who have lived with ND for more than a year falls into two categories. Most either expressed dissatisfaction with the body or endorsed the principle of the SLC without commenting on its performance. "Itdoesn't meet the real needs of the student body," one sophomore stated. "It doesn't do much," according to one junior. "It's similar to student government in that it's just there to give the students a secure feeling." 
Some students interviewed saw a real need for the SLC but added that it needed bolstering. 
"There's a real need for dialogue between students," one senior stated. But the SLC needs more active feeding of ideas to represent more of a cross section of the student body." 
"The SLC can be an important step in the direction of dialQgue but only if good workers 'ar~ elected." another senior stated. 
Several other revisions were offered. One junior would like to see a new body formed to dispell the unfavorable image the SLC has. Another student proposed adding more student represen­tation to the SLC in hopes of reducing the work load and in­creasing student voice. 
Perhaps the only point of agreement was the need for~ some type of organization, composed of students administration and faculty, that could so \ to coor­dinate the academic and nonacademic aspects of student life at ND. 
windows. No imiJlediate damage was reported, but lists of com­plaints were expected come 
WANTED 
from hall directors this morning. 
Please! Anyone who mistakenly
The raid was termed "orderly" 
took our winter clothes from the
by one St. Mary's security guard. 
fieldhouse storage, please be 
honest enough to return it. Call Ken or Lucy Foley at 289-2389. 
Though about 40 Notre Dame students managed to enter Holy Cross Hall, they were immediately 
MAY DAY! MAY DAY! 2 or 4 
evicted by the St. Mary's Security. 
Purdue tickets needed. Tom 8636 
or Paul 7861.
The crowd, estimated at about 
500 students, first formed at Grace 
Need Purdue tix. Will pay your
and Flanner towers at approx· 
price. Call 7819, 7812, or 7471. 
imately 11:00 p.m. Mter travelling 
Needed: Two Purdue tix . can be
around the Notre Dame 
separate. Call Mary 4635.
campus, picking up more students at each hall, the group made its 
Need any number Purdue tickets. 
Call Jim 287-0900. Leave message. 
way to St. Mary's. Wild cheering 
and firecrackers punctuated the movement the entire time. 
Need 3 TCU ti.x, call Rick 1314. 
The raid finally broke up around 
Need 2 general admission Purdue tix. Will pay. Call 3494 after noon 
1:20 a.m. at St. Mary's. Though a 
few small groups continued to 
or after 11 p.m.
wander the campus for a while, the major part of the crowd returned 
Need ride to Lafayette Fri. af. 
ternoon. Sept. 22, call 1504.
to the Notre Dame campus. "They 
just lost their steam," said one 
Need 4 general admission tickets
observer. 
for Missouri game. Name the price! Chris 1002. 
Need two general admission tix together for Missouri and Texas Christian game. Call Kevin at 
Candidates 
• 
7845.
com1ng 
Shah jahanpur Need student Purdue tickets call 6920 after 
by Bill McGinn 
midnight. 
The Democratic and Republican 
Need Purdue tickets, general
Presidential candidates responded 
admission or student. Call Frank 
with uncertainty and a polite 
8825 or Ed 8463. 
refusal to Fr. Theodore 
Help! 1 desperately need 1·4
Hesburgh's personal request that 
general admission tix for Purdue
they speak at Notre Dame this fall. 
game. Name your price, call 
Mike 6984.
George McGovern, the ­
Democratic nominee for 
Need 2 general admission tix to·
President, personally answered 
Pittsburgh. Must be together.
Father Hesburgh's invitaion. The 
Call John 7845. 
South Dakota Sentor expressed a 
NEEDED: 3 general admission.
desire to come to the campus. 
tickets for Pittsburgh. Contact
"Certainly," he declared, "if 
Joe 7471 or 232-5633. either Sarge Shriver or I can 
arrange our schedules so that we 
Need ride to Cleveland on Friday, Sept. 22. Call Mary Beth 4391.
can accept your invitation, we will do so." McGovern intends to notify 
Wanted: Part-time legal
Hesburgh personally if his 
secretaries to assist small law firm. General practice. Inquire:
schedule is altered to include a 
920 South Bend Avenue; 234-3216.
visit to Notre Dame. David N. Parker, a staff 
NEED 3 or 4 general admission 
tickets to either Pittsburgh or Missouri game. Call Pat, 3277. 
assistant to the President, responded for Mr. Nixon. Mter thanking Hesburgh for the in· 
Need 2-3 general admission tix for 
vitation, he stated that "a time is­
Purdue, call 1946. 
not foreseen now when the 
Ride needed to Ohio Northern (or
President or Vice-President might 
vicinity) in Ada Ohio -any
visit Notre Dame in the weeks 
weekend; contact Rick by calling
ahead." 
8917 Will pay. 
Since his appointment as Univ­
Need 4 tickets for Missouri. Call
ersity President in 1952 Father 
287-6154 in p.m.
Hesburgh has achieved great success in bringing major party 
Want 4 or 6 tickets for either­Purdue or Missouri. Will pay.
Presidentail candidates to the 
Call 255-4922 nights.
campus during the election year. John and Robert Kennedy 
Faculty member seeks guitar instruction for 12 year old son. Must include reading music. 272· 
visited Notre Dame during their 
primary campaigns. Henry Cabot 
7661.
U>dge, William Miller, and Edm­und Muskie spoke on campus as 
Desperately need three (together) general admission Missouri tickets. Will meet any 
Vice-Presidential candidates. 
Harry Truman and Adlai 
reasonable price. Call 8446.
Stevenson arrived here as Presidential candidates. Richard 
Need 2-5 tickets for Pittsburg or TCU. Joe 8374.
Nixon came to Notre Dame after his election as Vice President. 
Desparately need ride west on I­
Ted Kennedy <D-Mass.) how­
BO; Friday, Sept. 22, call Patte ever, does plan to visit Ntre Dame 
4629. 
on Oct. 6, Academic Commissioner 
Wanted: small guitar amplifier,
Jim Novic announced Tuesday. 
will rent or buy, call Jeff 233-5305. 
FOR SALE 
For Sale: '64 Lincoln Continental -Deluxe Special, air. 47,000 miles­Sweet condition. S750, Mike 233­5336.
Announcement 
1959 Chevy pannel truck. Rebuilt 
Planning to oper-.-..-concession 
engine, restored body, air, car­!stand on campus on home too~II 
peted, birch panneling inside, other extras. 272-7661.
!game Saturdays to seU hot dogs, · !softdrlnks, buttons, and the like as 
Like new electric typewriter $60.
Ia fund ralnslng project? 
Stereo with Garrard turntable The office of Student Activifles 
$30. Both S85. Call 233-8855. !Wfll coordinate. this project. ImpoveriShed student must sell
~ticatlon forms and Information 
5~ golf balls. Any quanity. 8780.
nustbe obtained from the Office of ~u.2..,nt ActlfvWes, LaFortune 
1970 Opel GT, new engine, new ~·vvon f Center. 
michelins, $2600. Tom 6325. 
Porsche 66-912 5 spd, excellent abarth, cibie, pirellis, rebuilt engine . $2850 -best offer, 233-1039 or 234-1563. 
NEW Westinghouse compact refrigerators. 4.4 cubic ft. capacity, full warranty, im­mediate delivery, costs less than leasing, call now. Wynne's Refrigeration Co. 234-0578. 
For Sale: Couches $10-30, Chairs $3-7.50. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. Free delivery to campus. Open 
Sunday. 
Sports car at economy car prices­1971 Fiat 850racer, vinyl hardtop, 35 MPG. Excellent condition. 232­8830. 
For Sale: typewriters your choice $25. 7735, Brother Clarence. 
For Sale: Norelco cassettes CHEAP. Guaranteed for life-Call 1868, Paul. 
1970 MGB roadster. Blue 10,000 miles. Asking $2400. Call 234­8533. 
1969 blue She I by G T -350, 33,000 miles, perfect condition. body work needed, call Ed, 287-3666. 
For sale 1967 Pontiac Tempest 4 door hardtop V-8 power steering, 
power  brakes,  good  condition  
$900.  Call  Steve Rathka  at  259­ 
1941.  

Ladies dresses, mostly Jerseys, and coats. size 12 & 14, boots, s­hoes, size 7. Also textured nylon carpet. and pad. five and two­thirds feet by eleven and two­thirds feet, like new. Rubber back washable rug 8112 X 11 feet. Sat. & Sun. Sept 22 & 23. And Sept. 30 & Oct. 1. 1006 So. Edison St.. South 
Bend. 
Need some beer beer signs. posters, to finish off those rooms? 
See Zen in 405 Flanner. 
1965 Impala excellent condition, new tires, battery. Call Ray 233· 6280. 
1972 Honda C B 100, $350-best offer, 259-9517 after 6. 
For Sale: female dalmatian. 8 months. purebred but no papers ­
Bargain at $25.00, 234-8947. 
NOTICES 
Sister Marita needs volunteers for her shchho. Meeting: Monday, Sept. 25 8 p.m. in Lafortone's lobby. 
Typing: essay-term paper-thesis­desertation-technical or research report-we do them professionally, efficiently, and reasonably. 
Expert Secretarial Service. 233­9466 or 233-3257. 
Europe and back tor S190! How can you afford to stay home? Call Clark, 283-8810. 
Morrissey loan fund open. 
Borrow up  to  S150.  11: l.S-12: 15  
Monday thru Friday.  LaFortune  
Basement.  

Dependable mother of two will babysit in home. Riverside Manor, north of town. 272-1780. 
Now accepting: Poems, photos, fiction, drama and essays tor fall 
issue  of  Juggler:  N D's  on1 y  
journal of the student arts.  Send  
material to  P.O. Box 583.  

Indiana residents: Write to 
MARION  COUNTY  ELECTION  
BOARD  ROOM  W  131  CITY  
COUNTY  BLDG.  IN­ 

DIANAPOLIS, INDIANA 46204, before 1 October, 1972 to get ap­plication tor absentee ballots. 
LOST 
Lost: gold Wittnauer watch Thursday or Friday, Sept. 15 South quad. Joh 1960, reward. 
brown wallet lost around Stanford hall Sunday. Reward, Jim 8725. 
PERSONALS 
Delbert. yes I am alive and living on top of the Dome. I'm watching 
you. R.S.V.P. Goldie. 
Words 1da 2da 3da 4da 5da 1·10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26·30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 






