
Cloudy today with a high of .25. Cold tonight with a low of 8 above. 


Vol. VI, No. 7'i Serving the Notre Dame -St. Mary's Community Thursday, February 10, 1972 
Relations improved 

US-Soviet arms talks continue 

Caruso charges '1ittle bureaucratic games" 
Nrw York Timrs 
WASHINGTON, Feb. 9--President Nixon told Congress today that the United States and the Soviet Union were in accord on the main elements, if not yet the details, of a first phase agreement on the limitation of strategic arms. He said such an agreement could halt the mushrooming arms race without damaging either side's security. 
But Nixon also warned that if the Russisans continued their stepped-up missile deployment and threatened the current balance of power, he would not hesitate to increase spending on American strategic forces. 
The major attention in the president's foreign policy report, his third "State of the World" m~ssage, was focused on United States relations with Russia and China. But the document also covered virtually every aspect of international affairs. 
a civilized discourse" 
Looking ahead to his trip to Peking later this month, Nixon said he wanted "a civilized discourse" with Chinese leaders on how to replace estrangement with a mutually beneficial dialogue. 
With the Soviet Union he was more specific, stressing the ambiguity in United States-Soview relations and the uncertainty here over Moscow's intentions in the world. 
Nixon said there were "serious grounds" for believing that "a fundamental improvement in the U .S.-Soviet relationship may be possible." But he said that it was "unclear" whether there had been a permanent change in Soviet policy "or only a passing phase concerneded more with tactics than with a fundamental commitment to a stable in­lerna tional system." 

"creative connection" 
In his forthcoming meeting with Soviet leaders in May, Nixon said he hoped for "concrete arrangements of benefit," which, would include an understanding on avoiding an inflammation of the situation in the Middle East, a curbing of big power rivalry in such areas as South Asia, and discussion of measures to further reduce tension in Europe. 
Summing up the "watershed year" that had just 

Nixon's State of the World message was focused on 
U.S. relations with Russia and China. 
passed, Nixon said that the United States, despite sharp problems with Japan and its western European allies, had achieved "a more balanced alliance" with its friends. The forthcoming summit meetings to Peking and Moscow he said were evidence of "a more creative connection" with America's adversaries. 

sense of achievement 
A sense of achievement pervaded the document, and this attitude was understood in Nixon's brief radio a'ddress to the nation this morning on the foreign policy message. 
He said in the radio address that various "breakthroughs toward peace" took place last year because his administration had consistently "stopped reacting on the basis of yesterday's habits and started acting to deal with the realiti~s of today and opportunities of tomorrow." 
Nixon said that his current eight-poiht pace plan was "The most generous peace offer in the history of warfare." 
The report's discussion of the status of the 27­
month-old strategic arms limitations talks was 
closely linked to the current balance of power in the 
world, and the determined Soviet effort to ac­
celerate its deployment of land-based and .sub­
marine-based missiles. 
After noting that the Soviet Union, "in virtually 
every category of strategic offensive and defensive 
weapons" had improved its forces, Nixon said the 
United States was "approaching a crucial turning 
point in our strategic arms programs.", he con­
tinued. 
"If the Soviet Union continues to expand strategic forces, compensating United States programs will be mandatory. The preferable alter­native would be a combination of mutual restraint and an agreement in SALT," he said. 
He said that the Russians were currently un­dertaking either "major improvements or the deployment of a totally new missile system," and he -added that two new or greatly modified land-based 
intercontinental ballistic missile systems were being developed. 


comprehensive limitation 
With this as a background, Nixon noted that"a consensus is developing on certain essential element" of a strategic arms agreement. 
He said both sides agreed that there should be a comprehensive limitation on the number of an­tiballistic missile defensive systems. Deployments of ABM's should neither provide a defense for the entire country nor threaten the strategic balance, he said. 
The President said an agreement on an ABM limitation .had not yet been reached because tha existing Soviet defense network of 64 missile launchers surrounds Moscow while the initial American safeguard program is geared to protect 
·offensive missiles in less populated areas. 
form alized treaty 
The Americans have proposed an asymetrical formula by which the Russians could have 100 missiles for Moscow's defense, while the United States would have more for ICBM protection. 
But Nixon said that the two sides had agreed that once an accord was reached on details, the ABM agreement would be formalized in a treaty that would require formal senate approval. 

by Michael Baum Gary Caruso, Co-Ex meal ticket program ex-director, yesterday charg~ 
Ed Ellis, Research and Development Commissioner, and the Hall President's Council with engaging in "little bureaucratic games" with his Protu.am. 
'-'"-::::..­

Ed Motto: "create exposure between the two student bodies" 
Ellis dismissed Caruso from his position 
la~t Tu.es~ay on a "conflicting 
philosophies charge. For the remainder 
of the semester, the HPC will distribute 
the 100 tickets through the halls. 
"It is the feeling of the Hall President's 
Council that the basic purpose of the 
program was to create exposure between 
the two student bodies," explained Ed 
Motto, HPC chairman. 

He and Ellis felt the same clique con­stantly monoj)olized the tickets when they were distributed through the Student Union. 
Caruso claimed that approximately twenty people used the tickets daily. "That is their right because the tickets are available, but you still have about eighty tickets left." 
"Don Mooney (student union social commissioner)even said 'Well, I see some of the same faces, but I always see a variety everyday there's somebody dif­ferent up there,'" the former director commented. 
"The Hall President's Council assumed the task of the co-ex tickets at the request of Ed Ellis. We have better things to do then 'play bureaucratic games' and have no desire to do such,'' Motto defended. 
"Our policy is more aligned to that of Mr. Ellis, who is in charge of it. We were not involved in the dismissal of Mr. Caruso in any way,'' he added. 
Caruso explained his office had originally distributed the co-ex meal tickets through the halls. "I got the 

Ed Ellis: "conflicting philosophies" 
statistics: how many people ate, and the average people eating. Out of 100 tickets per day, there were only 57 per day eating over there," he recalled. "This semester,'' he complained, "with all the tickets at the 
(continued on page 6) 

•
Gary Caruso: "little bureaucratic games" 
...... 

Pege2 THE OBSERVER. Thursday, February_1~. 1972 

ND-SMC-elections unified 



by Peggy Cullinane 

St. Mary's Student Assembly unanimously re-passed a proposal establishing mandatory four candidate tickets in the next Student Body President election. 
The bill, originally passed Sunday night was re-affirmed at last night's meeting. 
Darlene Gallina, SMC-SG public relations director em­phasized that the unified election would neutralize the merger issue, not bring it to the foreground. 
"There is a misunderstanding that coalition would make merger the big issue. Merger is irrelevant-we still want to work together on many issues," she said. 
SBP Kathy Barlow said "We have the facilities to go ahead on a separate election," if the senate fails to pass the measure today. 
The Notre Dame student senate must pass the proposal before the joint election can occur. 
St. Mary's concern stems from the possibility that a strong ND candidate could leave SMC with a minority SBP. 
The assembly also discussed the National Student Lobby, to be held in Washington, March 22-24, 
Darlene Gallina, SMC-SG public 
relations director 
but the issue was not voted on. A committee will interview in­terested persons. J'he assembly will decide on matters of money and transportation at a later date. 
Barlow, waiting the arrival of Sue Welte, Head of S.M.C. J. Board, opened the meeting to any further discussion. She an­nounced a request from the Board of Trustees that a task 

Faculty Committee wants higher saleries 
Larry Daley 

The Faculty Mfairs Committee of the 'Faculty Senate supports proposals calling for retirement income guarantees and increased University contributions to the faculty retirement fund, ac­cording to Dr. Thomas Swartz, chairman of the committee. 
Requested changes were based upon Notre Dame's failure to conform with "the agreed-on minimums of the American Association of University Professors," Swartz added. 
Swartz explained that the current system is weighted against lower-paid faculty members. At the beginning of a professor's employment, he and the University each contribute five percent of his salary to his retirement fund. But when the retirement fund reaches $9,000, the University increases its share to ten percent -a regressive system according to Swartz . 
Additionally, Swartz noted that the guaranteed retirement in­come "borders on the poverty level," since it is less than one­third of the professor's average salary_. The average salary of a full professor is $18,126, when the present retirement guarantee is $5500 for those with over 25 years of service. 
The F1culty Senate is proposing that the University include one and one-fourth of the final salary of the retired prof in addition to any other benefits. 
Although this proposed minimum guarantee is still below the AAUP minimum, the Faculty Affairs Committee recom­mended it as "a practical solution to the problem." 
The second proposal attempts to improve the present step-rate retirement plan, which the Faculty Senate terms "not fair to those with lower salaries." 
The report states that on a $20,000 a year salary, the University contributes seven and three quarter percent to retirement, "as opposed to the Indiana University of South Bend, which contributes 15 percent to a professor's salary each year," added Prof. Swartz. 
The second proposal suggests that the University "should contribute to faculty retirement a straight eight per cent of the contractual salary," in order to assure an adequate retirement for the present faculty.. 



MARDI GRAS 

force be formed to make broad suggestions as to the future of 
S.M.C. if the merger fails. This force will consist of students, administrators, and alumni. 
A 12 affirmative, 2 abstaining vote granted thirty-five dollars for the frosh Winter Carnival to be held Feb. 19. The free car­nival will include a square dance in Angela Hall. 
Off campus representative Midge Susardi announced that the S.M.C. grads of '69, headed by Frances Welch, will sponsor a seminar for women interested in "learning the greatest potential of your body." These grads advocate that "Basically, S.M.C. women feel that there is more to being a woman than cranking out babies." 
SBP Kathy Barlow 
Avoid ffisappofntment 
Orner Her 
Valentine Early 
From 
Wygants Floral Co. 
327 lincoln Way 
West 
232-3354 
Working with people in 
AFRICA 
is what it's all about 
Join a team of dedicated priests and brothers in the largest missionary society on the continent of Africa. The White Fathers of Africa derive their name from their tradi­tional white habit which has come to represent to Africans not only the word but the helping hand of Christ. 
SEND FOR COMPLETE ~ 
INFORMATION 
Fr. Joseph E. Hebert W.F. White Fathers of Africa 2020 West Morse Avenue p
Chicago, Illinois 60645 
NAM.E--------------­
ADDRES~S-----------­
CITY--------------
STAT'.t;_______zJp_____ 
AG·E--------------­


Student Union Social Commission presents 
RICHIE HAVENS 
WITH SPECIAL GUESTS 
THE WINTER 
CONSORT 
Sunday -Feb. 13th 7:30 p.m. 
Ticket Prices 
$4.50, $3.50, $2.50 
Ticket Sales Begin 7:00p.m. the Fiesta Lounge 
LaFortune Student Center 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 




Thursday, February 10, 1972 THE OBSERVER. 

Legal age lowered 
by Jim McDermott 

Boom times may soon be leaving Niles , Mich., if Indiana Gov. Edgar Whitcomb signs into law a bill partially lowering the age of majority to 18. 
If Whitcomb approves the bill, young Hoosiers will be able to enter into binding legal agreements. The bill also lowers the legal drinking age to 18. 
Although Whitcomb reportedly opposes the lower drinking age, Associated Press-Indianapolis speculated last night that the Republican governor will sign the bill. Indiana state legislators would pass the bill over guber­natorial veto, AP reporters believed. 
With Senate approval of a similar bill Tuesday that in­cluded a lowered drinking age, it forced the Indiana House into a compromise bill with a 54-40 vote. 
The bill passed yesterday does not grant full adult rights to those over 18 unlike Michigan's. Criminal sentencing, assistant and education for the han­dicapped will not be affected by the new legislation. 
The selective nature of the new right reportedly caused much opposition to the bills. The areas of drinking and entry into con­tracts were chosen, Sen. David Rogers noted, because they are "the two chief hallmarks to young people." 
Dorm thefts mark week 

Dorm thefts dominated the 
security problems of a relatively 
quiet week, according to Notre 
Dame Security Director, Arthur 
Pears. 

Holy Cross was hardest hit over 
the weekend. Thirty dollars was 
stolen from an unlocked dorm 
room Saturday and vandals 
removed two fire extinguishers 
from the hall. Security stopped a 
third burglary attempt. 

"Outsiders" hiested fifty 
dollars from Alumni residents 
over the weekend, Pears added. 
No damage was reported. 

Batteries were removed from a 
student's car in the D2 parking lot 
and from an employee's car in 
the ACC lot. A battery charger 
wat taken from a golf cart parked 
inside the front door of 
Morrissey. Also reported stolen 
were four stereo speakers from a 
vehicle in the D2 lot. 


Records · Radios 241 Dixie Way N Phonos · Tapes 272-7510 



Mock Convention 
There will be a meeting on Thursday, Feb. 10, of 
all students interested in being campaign 
managers for the various Democratic candidates at the Mock Convention, April 24-27. 
This short meeting wiU begin at 7 pm in the Fiesta Lounge of LaFortune Student Center. 
'World briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times News Service 
Washington -President Nixon told Congress and the American people Wednesday that the United States and the Soviet Union were in agreement on the outline of an interim limitation of strategic arms, with some details still to be worked out. But the President added in his Third Annual Foreign Policy Message that he would not hesitate to spend more on weapons if the Soviet Union continued its stepped-up missile deployment in the absence of an accord. 
Belfast -Roman Catholic civil rights demonstrators blocked streets, picketed police stations and staged rallies in various parts of Northern Ireland in the first attempt at mass disruption in the province, Civil rights leaders, although disappointed at the small number of participants, promised "to do this more and more." 
Washington -In his foreign policy message, President Nixon told his Democratic challengers for the Presidency that he welcomed criticism and did not question their sincerity or patriotism. But he asked them to refrain from criticism that "might give the enemy an incentive to prolong the war until after 
the election." 

Washington -Chairman John Stennis of the Senate Armed Services Committee served notice that his committee would seriously question the need for increasing the defense budget by $6.3 billion, as the administration has proposed, at a tiem when there is a large budget deficit. President Nixon has warned that any cuts in the proposed defense budget would be foolhardy and dangero.us. 
Washington-Federal officials said that the government would cut the domestic production quota for amphetamines to about 17 or 18 percent of last year's actual production in an attempt to cut down on the amount of the drug available illegally. 
nd-smc 

7:00, 9:00--film, greetings, cinema '72, engineering auditorium. 
7: 00--meeting, student senate, tv room, Iafortune student center. 
7:30--lecture' dr james turner, the socio-political movemnts of afro-americans, library auditorium. 
on campus today 
Clothes and thinp Mt:!n 's Boqtique 
"On the Mall" ·McKinley Town & Country Shopping Center -Mishawaka, Indi11na Phone 259­7335 

It looksgoodin races too. 


Ifthe sleek fastback lines and the well-appointed interior of the GT-6 make it look like more show car than sports car, don't be fooled. 
The GT--6 is the national E Class champion racer in SCCA competition. Ithas been the chlmpion for two years running. 
So if you're thinking of buying one, don't be afraid that you're simply paying for style or the sumptuous reclining seats, or for standard equipment detail­ing like the walnut facia and the self -defrosting window. 
Figure you're investing in an all independent suspension system, a 2-litre, 6 cylinder engine, disc brakes in front, rack and pinion steering, good acceleration and a good track record. 
The good looks come as a bonus. 
Triumph 
·~ITI•H GT-6 
'72 STC, SPITFIRE, TR 6, & STAG 
Available for immediate Delivery at 
--~---­
Thursday, February 10, 1972
THE OBSERVER. 


-
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
l•:ditor-ln-f'hier. Glen S. Corso ' Assistant Editor .\ssistant Editor 
T.C. Treanor All successful newspapers are John Abowdceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never c::fend
"usiness Manager anyone or anything if they can help .\dvt'rtising Manager 
Jim Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Busines·s: 283-7 4 71 News: 283-1715' 
Vote up the merger! 
The Notre Dame Student Senate is meeting tonight. That, in itself, is something of an extraordinary occasion. Meetings of that body, this past academic year, have not been prolific. The question facing the Senate at tonight's meeting is a weighty one, one worthy of careful attention. The question the representatives will face tonight is whether or not the students of this University, and the College across the road, should join hands and show the squabbling administrati-ons of both schools how to merge. 
To approve joint student body elections will not mean that the Student Governments will instantaneously become one. Nor will it mean that divine revelation will visit the administrators of both institutions and point out the way to merger for them. 
But joint elections will be a step, a crucial first step. This entire year has gone by without any overt move towards merger, by students. The Notre Dame Student Government has been waiting for official blessing from the administration, while a steady feud has been ablaze between them and the St. Mary's Student Government over various issues. 
It's too bad that nothing got done this year. It's too bad, because the Barkett administration obviously has no sense of the history of Notre Dame. They don't realize that the only way reform or change comes to Du Lac is for students to push the administration. 
Time has run out on John Barkett and his cohorts. Time has not yet run out for the rest of the students of this university. The Student Senate can redeem a Barkett campaign pledge tonight. It can bring merger between the two schools a bit closer. We think the Senate should vote to have candidates run together in a bloc, and show the two administrations how it's done, cause they obviously don't know. 
Booze and other stuff 
So now the age for legal boozing is, or rather shortly will be, 18 in the late, great State of Indiana. It took the Hoosiers a while to wake up to the fact that 18 year olds were getting shot at in wars and getting convicted of certain heinous crimes and tossed in jail the same as an adult; but they're ahead of most of the country. 
Save for the drinking age and contractural .arrangements, the rest of the elaborate legal framework that has been evolved to make 21 the magic age will still stand. That's unfortunate. It's unfortunate and it's unfair. While 18 year olds are being given a very definite privilege in being allowed to drink, they are being given an unfair advantage over their older brothers and sisters who can both drink and have the full, heavy hand of the law fall upon them. 
Ifa person can sign a contract, fight for his country, vote and, shades of he_aven above, drink, then he should be willing to take on all the r~sponsibilities that go with being "legal." 
Besides, if a bill is pushed, making 18 the "everything" age, maybe ~hey can sneak through a rider legalizing pot---by setting up a smoke screen, of course. 

..Always let your con.:ianca be your guide!' -Jimlny Cricket 
]erry Lutkus 111111111111111111111111111111111111•••n11111111111111111111 
Volunteers 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
The grand sacrifice for co-education was announced Tuesday. There were no volunteers, no requests for amnesty, just the executioner saying, "You two over there. You volunteer, don't you?" And then the ax fell. 
The decision came as a complete surprise to the residents of Badin ~-Iall. They had readily assumed that no one would even consider housing women in what they lovingly call "The Dungeon." And their surprise draws to the fore the whole procedure that was carried on in picking the new halls for women. 
The most curious fact in the whole decision-making process was that Father Thomas Chambers, the director of student residences, was not notified until 6: 00 on Tuesday evening of the decision. Apparently, the man who's job involves an expertise and knowledge of the living conditions on campus was not even consulted about the choice of Badin and Walsh Halls. The final verdict was evidently drawn up by Fathers Hesburgh, Burtchaell, Blantz, and Mr. Stephan. All of these men are directly above Chambers in the power structure and they do super­cede bis authority, yet none of them can talk with more experience about residence halls than can Chambers. 
Further curious facts have come to light. The Co-Education Com­mittee headed by Jane Sheehy and Bill Wilka organized a survey of the halls that was to be used in considering co-ed dorms. Out of the 20 dorms on campus, Badin and Walsh finished dead last. It seems more than evident that this survey wasn't consulted. 
The reputations of the two halls are another source of interesting insight. They have been regarded throughout the year as campus problem halls. Walsh has always been THE party hall at Notre Dame and its:drunken weekends have not been uncommon. This most likely was the source of a great deal of personal pain for Mr. Stephan. 
Badin's reputation, on the other hand, was at the other end of the scale. It was by no means a party hall. Badin has always been regarded as a small, quiet, intellectual hall. Last year, Badin had one of the highest collective GPA's on campus. Yet it too was a "troublemaker." The spirit of Badin is infectious and it based on and developed from a true sense of liberty, freedom, and democratic life found there. The rector of Badin has been under fire for the freedom the men there have. These oddities leave a curious questioning in one's 
mind. 
Finally, the letter announcing the choice of halls offered reasons 
which, in the minds of the residents of Badin, should rule them out 
completely. In the letter, signed by Father Blantz, it says that both 
halls "allow for appropriate security for young women, both have 
adequate physical faculties, and both have room available for social 
and recreational purposes." The hall is fortunate enough to have a TV 
lounge that is packed if 6 or 7 people decide to watch the program. 
. The administrators claim that necessary renovations for the halls 
will be obtained at a reasonable cost. Badin, built originally as a 
temporary structure, still resembles one. The facilities of the hall are 
inadequate for men, (as it is, the residents generally sink many hours 
and much money into the rooms each year to make them livable) let 
alone for girls who won't be able to do their own work on them. The 
necessary renovations of lavatory facilities, security precautions, 
study areas, and recreational faculties could run the Amdinistration 
more than they assume. 
Buz Imhoff, Badin president, has talked many a time before the 
HPC budget committees attempting to obtain from them money to 
renovate and supply needed study facilities for Badin. But he never 
could get enough money to supply the necessary quality facilities. 
It seems apparent that the choice of Badin is an off one and quite a 
surprise. Imhoff termed the selection "an illogical one". The hall 
residents, though greatly upset, could not understand how the reasons 
the university gave applied to Badin. 
But the fact remains that the men of Badin are resigned to moving 
out. Their only real hope is that the burden of this sacrifice for co­
education does not solely remain on the shoulders of Badin and Walsh 
Halls. It seems reasonable that the other halls on campus should share 
in the sacrifice. The best way this could be effected would be to clear 
out sections in many halls for the disposed residents of Badin and 
Walsh thus allowing them to move intact with their friends. 
It's a regretable situation, but one that must be done and Badin 
residents seem to feel that this is the case. But in all fairness the 
burden of this sacrifice must not be left squarely on the shoulders of 
the men of Badin and Walsh. 



Thursday, February 10, 1972 
THE· OBSERVER. 
Tom Wicker 

In the Nation: The Same Old Story 

New York, Feb. 9--From its beginnings, the Nixon Administration has insisted that the way to judge its civil rights activities was to "Watch what we do, not what we say." The implication was that, while talking one way to mollify a conservative con­stituency, the Nixon men would accomplish a great deal in the other direction. 
Southern senators, on the other hand, having long been the most determined opponents of any kind of social or economic or political advance for blacks, have lately taken to insisting that they and their constituents have gone further than the rest of the nation in providing equal opportunity for all. Particularly in the area of school desegregation, there is some substance in this Southern claim--and even in the Nixon Administration's "watch what we do" boast. 
In the crucial area of equal employment op­portunity, however, both the Southern·senators and the administration can now plainly be seen wearing the same old confederate uniforms. It is, in fact, rather like old times in the senate now that the southerners, with administration support, have filibustered to death the proposal to equip the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission with cease­and-desist powers against employers found guilty of discriminating. 
The net loss, of course, is not just for blacks; since the C.C.O.C. has jurisdiction over sex as well as race discrimination, the senate's action also is a grievous blow to women's rights. And one of those most responsible is also a man who has had a big hand in defeating or watering down the women's rights amendment, Sam J. Ervin, Jr. of North Carolina. 
There is no question, however, that the senate's 
Russell Baker 
action was mainly another refusal to do anything much about the problem of job discrimination against blacks. Studies of black unemployment -­which runs consistently at about twice that of whites, and far worse in the cases of black teenagers and black women -is not entirely or even largely due to their lack of job skills and education, much less to an unwillingness to work; rather the problem is to a great extent one of discrimination. 
Nevertheless, as it now stands, the E.E.O.C. has no enforcement powers at all, although in 30 states there are commissions that have cease-and-desist authority. But as the price for getting any kind of bill past the southern filibuster, Senator Jacob K. Javits and others have had to agree to a com­p_romise, It would, first, give the E.E.O.C. only the nght to go to federal court to try to get compliance with any finding of discrimination; second, it would raise from eight to only 15 the number of the em­ployees that would have to be in a company, or members in a union, to bring that company or union under E.E.O.C. jurisdiction. The filibustered bill would have made it 25 employees or members, vastly expanding the commission's reach. 
The compromise adopts, in effect, the ad­ministration's position, which is already embodied in a bill that passed the house. That it is intended to be a soft position, rather than a tough stand against job discrimination, became apparent when Senator Peter Dominick, the administration spokesman on the issue, said he would oppose a part of the proposed compromise that would have permitted federal courts to accept the E.E.O.C.'s findings as evidence, without further trial on the facts of discrimination cases. 
Since the Federal Courts are already clogged, and·' the average delay in disposition of cases is about 10 months, it is apparent that adding a whole new area of litigation to their burdens is not an expeditious way to handle job discrimination; it is more nearly another way to bog down judges and prosecutors already unable to manage their workloads. Moreover, lengthy trials, plus the long appeals process, is bound to be more costly to complainants than the adminstrative remedy that had been proposed for the E.E.O.C., the result of that fact will be to leave much discrimination essentially un­challenged. 
Just this week Federal Judge Frank M. Johnson Jr .. complained that although he had ordered the state of Alabama about two years ago to cease employment discrimination in all state agencies. "It looks like my order wasn't very effective." He was in the process of issuing another order, this one to the all-white Alabama state police, to recruit enough blacks to fill a quarter of its positions. Two years from now, will anything have been done about this second order, which is sure to be appealed'! 
Since the E.E.O.C. is being given jurisdiction over state and local workers, if it were also to have cease-and-desist powers--as does the National Labor Relations Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Federal Com­munications Commission, to name only a few--it might well be able to get .a better and quicker response by administrative sanctions than Judge Johnson could with court orders. 
But action is not what the Nixon Administration and the Southern senators want; delay and talk and promises are all they care to offer in the way of equal employment opportunity. 

Observer: No Harry? No Walter? No John? No ... ? 
WASHINGTON, Feb. 9--When President Nixon goes to China, he will take most of the American television industry with him. Harry Reasoner, Walter Cronkite, John Chancellor, Barbara Walters, Dan Rather, Herb Kaplow, Bernard Kalb Eric Sevareid and many more. Thirty-five more by precise count, including cameramen and technicians. 
Those of us who have to stay at home will not be entirely bereft. The President is leaving Hogan's Heroes behind, and Lucy, and the old prints of "Casablanca." These should help most of us survive the intervals--presumably few--when satellite transmission is not pulsing out of China with the saga of Marco Nixon. ... · 
There are a few people, however, who will be in trouble.All those people who are running for president, for example. What's the point of running in the U.S .A. if all the television is over in China'! 
The same question--"What's the use?"-confronts Congressmen, people who blow up buildings, writers with new books to be flogged--everybody, in short, to whom television exposure is life's blood and mother's milk. 
They will probably solve their problem by taking a vacation this time, but a point has been made, a question raised and it requires attention. We already knew that a President could make it very difficult for anyone else to get attention on television, but until the Peking trip we did not realize that he had the power to pack the entire television' industry into an airplane and transport it lock, stock and Sevareid out of the country. 
This is not entirely due to presidential power, let it be hurriedly said, but rather a disclosure of how thoroughly absorbed television has become with the presidency. The President plays the pipe; like the children of Hamelin, the mesmerized networks follow him into--where? 
Television is exceedingly presidential. It is at its best with bold, simple stories about strong men in familiar situations, and this is the kind of story the White House, of all American institutions, is most likely to provide consistently. 
The President flying about the earth to engage in pageant diplomacy, like a Tudor King on a royal progress through the realm, provides the spectacle , story which television reports incomparably. Presidents, of course, need television as much as television needs presidents. Television makes the politician's dream come true-with it, he can seize the voter directly by the ears, show him his smile his gravity, the way the muscle bunches with patriotic determination there under the jaw. when he is really on his mettle, and all this right in the voter's living room, or bedroom, or cellar. 
The Press~-or "writing press," as it is now oc­casionally called--declines in importance to presidents, as the common interest of presidency and television becomes more manifest. 
It see'ms unlikely, despite the occasional Agnewian assault on the columnists and publications of the wicked East, that anyone in the White House can care much about what goes on any more in print. National triumph nowadays goes to the man who can dominate the illuminated box. 
Even voters who do read, seem not believe much they see in print. 
For the present China trip the White House, nevertheless, allotted half the transportation space to "writing press." In the future we can probably anticipate that the percentage allotted to television will become progressively larger as televis~on becomes increasingly presidential in its focus and the presidency becomes increasingly telegenic and theatrical. 
Is the printed page, then to disappear? Probably not. It has an important role to play in a possible reorganization of society which might result from the marriage of presidency and television. There will remain, after all, other parts of government requiring public attention--Congress, Court, Legislature, City Hall, Police Station. 
There will almost surely remain a minority who need to know what these institutions are up to. Television, absorbed in piping the presidency to the great masses, will probably abandon this relatively negligible audience. Ratings, after all, must be respected. Print will be the logical method of conveying information to this minority. 
In time we might anticipate a great division--two nations living as one: one of them, living by television, would choose presidents; the other, still literate, would make most of the small decisions which determine how a country is actually run. 
The worst is also possible, of course. This is that Congressmen and Judges and Governors and Mayors and Copwill all give up '"hen they see that nobody but a president can get 01. television. And then we will really have probl~:-h.:: when the President flies away. 

Letters t0 the Edi t0 rIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
Editor: 

Your January 28 edition quoted St. John's University ad­ministrator Dr. Edward Henry as stating that he would consider becoming president of St. Mary's College only if it "follows the growing movement all over America for small women's colleges and small liberal arts colleges to train women for openings for them in the job market." 
The implication of this statement and the Women's Liberation Movement as a whole is that women can find happiness by working. (Assumedly men have already done so.) Up to now, I had thought that every college $tudent in the country realized that the function of a college is education and not job training. It would be nice if our society were structured so that every job was an aesthetic ex­perience, but the military­industrial complex doesn't work that way. 
My wife, a college graduate, teaches five days a week while I sit around and do nothing. I would not protest in the streets so that I might trade places with her. In fact, I will go to work (much as I hate the thought) in order to give her the option (not requirement l of quitting work m order to pursue happier activities \by "activities", I don·t mean housecleaning and watching soap operas). If any woman (or man) thinks that she or he can find fulfillment by working in the American "job market" as Dr. Henry calls it (market--isn't that where they buy and sell cattle?), I feel sorry for them. Work is a necessity for survival, not an aesthetic luxury. I think the cliche is that 'We should work to live, not live to work. 
Another point is that I would challenge the contention that liberal arts colleges train people for job openings. For what job is a theology or English1 major being trained? Although most college grads work, I doubt if their college "training" does them much good in terms of doing their jobs. If one is looking to the colleges for job training, I would suggest he or she look elsewhere. 
In addition, Ithink it is a reflection on the quality of the St. Mary's administration (and the faculty they hire, and the students they accept) that they consider as a prime presidential candidate a man who thinks that the function of a college is to train people for jobs. Although I don't particularly want to unduly praise Notre Dame, why this university would want to merge with SMC instead of going co-ed on its own is beyond me. Sincerely yours, John W. N. Hickey Senior 816 Leland Ave. 
Editor, 
To the already innumerable examples of your poor taste and 3rd class newspaper professionalism, the other day you added another crass work. The cartoon which appeared on the editorial page depicting the Blessed Virgin as a tattered, shivering character for a sup­posedly humorous purpose was remarkably ignorant even for the Observer. The fact that this mocking of our university's most famous symbol appeared on the editorial page of the student paper is an insult to everyone associated with Notre Dame. 
Very sincerely, Norman F. Bower 



THE 
Thursday, February 10, 1972 SMC-ND WlNTER RETREAT 

ay 

artng

Recruitment policy blasted 
Sat,'Feb. 19, SMC Clubhouse 

by Bob Long A MECHA Recruitment Committee member has sent a letter to the Notre Dame Ad­missions Office, blasting minority recruitment and scholarship funding policies. Miss Delfina Landeros, in a letter to Director John Goldrick, claimed that " ... min'ority enrollment has had to depend on chance. That is, if Notre Dame's football team is invited to a post­season bowl and wins, then and only then, would there be funds available for minority scholar­ships." In an interview Tuesday, Miss Landeros stated, "We have talked to Father Burtchaell and the Administrator of Ad­misswns .. we have done everything possible to sensitize them to our problem. They have . been totally indifferent to it." "Judging from the whole at­titude of those in control of school monies and the priorities that they set out to fulfill--minority enrollment not being one of them­-the new funding source for minority scholarships, fi found, will probably not deviate too , much from the previous one--that · 
HPC takes over co-ex tickets 
(continued from page 1) 

Student Union, around the third day there were about 92 people eating over there." 
<Under the central distribution system the average number of tickets used was 71.) 
Caruso's policy of distributing all co-ex tickets through the Student Union office ended when Ellis confiscated the tickets last week. 
"Ed's main contention, is he told me to run the program, BUT to cooperate with the Hall Presidents," said Caruso, "which I have and Ellis said, 'Well, I've taken it away from you."' 
"Now he's turned it over to the Hall Presidents but he never informed me of this before," Caruso mused. "He didn't take all these figures into con­sideration, even though he had copies of them, and I was a little 

ditteRatil thi1 notice, but come in 
and Vltif out NEW tfote.1 
ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME CAMPUS OFF JUNIPER ROAD. GIFTS • BOOKS • POSTERS • GREETING CARDS OPEN MONDAY & THURSDAY TILL 7:00PM. BROWSERS WELCOME. FREE PARKING. 

--ABUINAS BOOK SHOP 
18717 BULLA ROAD, SOUTH BEND. IND. 46637 TELEPHONE 219/272-1704 
is, minorities having to depend on chance for their higher education," Miss Landeros ad­ded. 
She contended that the small number of Chicano students (approximately 55) indicated that Notre Dame has not seriously committed itself to minority enrollment. 
In her letter, she suggested that "if 50 percent of the new students coming to Notre Dame are financially assisted, a number of slots be set aside for the different minorities and that these slots be filled." 
This would mean that "Notre Dame or any other University with this type of policy will not necessarily only get the cream of the crop of the minorities, but also, that which follows the cream of the crop." 

Adding that if 325 females are admitted to Notre Dame in the , fall of 1972 and 150 of them receive financial aid, "then at least one-fourth (37) of these women ought to be minority women who will be financially assisted." 
She maintains that Spanish speaking students, meaning 
perturbed at his unprofessional and unethical methods, how he dealt with the situation." 
The dismissed director felt ticket distribution through the halls entailed "a little inequity" formerly avoided with one central office on a first come, first serve basis. 
"Over 200 students who live off­campus have meal cards," said Caruso. ·"They have no way of receiving them at least when were over at the Student Union some of the tickets could be made available to these people." He attributed this information to Mooney. 
"Gary's statistics are correct," El_lis replied. "They are due to the old method of distribution. In order to achieve the primary goal of student exposure, and the second goal of volume, we have adjusted the method and I expect the volume to increase as a result." 
Sponsored by ND~SM C Campus 
Chicano and Puerterriquenos 
Ministries
born or residing in the US are, for the most part, living in just as 
Call Fr. Cormier (5389), 
deprived conditions, as the 
-Mary Gail Peterson t4494) or
blacks, if not worse, and "should not be second on minority 
recruitment as is the case at Notre Dame at the present time." Mr. Lupe Rocha, Director of El 
ed?!
Centro, a· government-funded agency that works among 
SKlROfAL VALLEY
Spanish speaking Americans in the South Bend Area, agreed with 
Only 15 miles from N.D.U.
Miss Landeros, agreed with Miss Landeros. 
6 Runs New Rentals 
"It is very discouraging to a 
Cafeteria 
Instructions
student that his chances hinge on 
Night Skiing 
the outcome of a football game," 
Ladies Day Tuesday 
he said. 

Mon., Wed., Thurs. 3 to 10 He cited one of the problems 
North Main Street Roa
Tues., Fri. 12 to 10 

Buchanan, Michiganwhich alienates Chicaanos is 
Sal and Sun. 10 to 10
their native Spanish. "When I was in school, we were punished for speaking Spanish during recess_period," he said . 
He claimed that primary and secondary schools very seldom hire bilingual counselors, who can communicate with Chicano students and their parents. This is responsible for the high number of "pushouts", those who leave school not because of any intellectual deficiency, he said. 
"I have no desire to 'play games' with Gary," he vowed. "He didn't want to be consistent with our goals, so we removed the program from his jurisdiction." 
Caruso, however, alleged, "it basically came down to two different philosophies, whether it should go through the halls, which I have shown through statistics has failed, or whether it should go to the students at large from one central place." 
"As far as I'm concerned, they're not doing it in the best interest of the students, they're just out to make themselves look good, and to play their little bureaucratic games," he 


Gl I. IIICIHY II. 
South a.nd 
From Town & Country Shopping Center) 
616-695-3847 
Special prices on diamonds NO students. 
Just show your 
I.D. cards at any of our stores 
'GARRARD TURNTABLE 


Thursday, February 10, 1972 THE OBSERrJEit 
Ste8dy "Goose" is going good 
" 

by Vic Dorr 
Several weeks ago, a sign appeared on the back wall of the Huddle Snack Bar. Obviously 
posted by a discouraged
~ 
basketball fan, it offered a season ticket for sale. 

The sign drew an immediate response, but hardly the response that was expected. "You'll be sorry," scribbled someone with a more optimistic outlook, "when the Goose is All-American." 
"The Goose," of course, is Gary Novak, one of Notre Dame's sophomore forwards. And while he won't be achieving All-American status any time in the near future, he has taken big steps this season towards becoming a top-rate college ball­player. 
The 6-7 Novak has started every one of the Irish basketball team's 18 games this season, and he leads Digger Phelps' squad in 
Fencers have winning tradition 
by Joe Wilkowski 

Last year, when the-Notre Dame fencers were ranked sixth in the nation, some people were disappointed with the season because the Irish finished with their poorest record since 1966 21-3. ' 
As one might surmise, the fencers have a tradition that spans 38 seasons with a per­centage of .834, and they are not about to stop now. 
With 13 lettermen returning from that squad, the fencing team has set some high goals for itself. They seek the National Championship, to regain their Great Lakes title, and to break the University record of 31 consecutive victories. 
The material which Coaches 
Mike DeCicco and two-time All-American Rick Deladrier have to work with is outstanding. In both foil and epee the Irish have five fencers who could start with any other club in the country, and the sabre team is not far behind. 
The Irish are strongest in the epee, due both to outstanding 
talent across the line and the number of fencers who ·have performed well as substitutes. Assistant coach Rick Deladrier has been the catalyst for the epeeists, bringing out the best in each of his starters. Co-captain Tim Taylor has done double duty 
both scoring (19.2 avg.) and rebounding 00.1 avg.) And Novak's performances 
have been steady all season long-­despite the fact that he was recruited by John Dee to play a part in the double stack offense-­and had to acquaint himself with the new system that Digger Phelps brought from Fordham. 
"Johnny Dee recruited each of us (the current crop of sophomore cagers) for a specific part of the double stack," said Novak. "I was supposed to replace either Collis (Jones) or Sid (Catlett), and John Shumate would take the spot I didn't. We had replacements for just about everybody. Except Austin <Carr), of course. You just don't replace someone like that. 
"We didn't know what to expect when Digger came here last spring," he continued, "because his style of ball is so different. He presses a lot and likes to play a lot of different offenses. There was a little difficulty at first, but I think everyone's making the transition now." 

Despite the successful tran­sition, the Irish cagers have won but four of 14 games to date, and the season has naturally been a bleak one for Novak and his teammates. 
"It has been kind of a discouraging year," Gary ad­mitted. "We play a lot of good teams, and often we play well enough to win. But we always seem to come just a little bit short. A lot of that's probably, because of the tough schedule. Otherwise, we probably would have won a lot of those games we've lost. 
"All we can do," he said, echoing Digger, "is just go out there, keep playing, and do the best we can." 
this year, fencing at an .850 clip with a 13-2 record. Mike Matranga, the third man for ep~e, carries a, 12-3 r~ord into th1s weekend s action, and numbers among his victims All-America hopeful John Hanzalick. Their backups, North Carey and Rick Waugh, have also been doing well, compiling career percentages .862 and .857 respectively. 
The key to a very strong foil team is co-captain Mike Corn­wall. "I expect Mike to make the big move this year," contends Coach DeCicco. "He has great talent. He's got the national championship written in his eyes and he has worked hard in hopes of gaining it." Only a junior, Cornwall is one of the best collegiate fencers in the nation, and he already ranks 2oth on the list of all-time Irish fencers. He carries a 12-2 record into action this weekend. 
Soph Jim Mullenix, 13-2, is coming into his own this year after spending last season in a substitute's role. Senior Warren
' 

Yau, 11-5, is the teams most 
exciting fencer, relying on his great quickness and decept;ve attack to take his opponent. If there is a team weakness, it is in sabre, but pity the opponent who tries to pick on that weakness. Co-captain Matt 

'with CONTACT LENSES 
No hassle. Slip Into the action with better vision without bother Contact lenses help you see better, keep you looking great. Feel free to join the action with contact lenses ... You get better looking at Union. 

Fruzinski has specialized in the te~ting art of defense, and his qmck reflexes have brought him ~o a 14-2 record. Ron Sollito, 15-1, IS perhaps a more complete fencer, intimidating his opponent on offense and defense. Joe Pauwels, 8-7, is off to a slow start. this year, while subs Dan Mulligan, Roy Seitz, and George Viamontes have contributed a combined 15-7 record. 
The starting nine fencers, with a combined record of 111-26, have carried the load well this year leading the Irish to an 8-0 record. The Irish, however, face their biggest test this weekend as they host the University of Detroit Saturday afternoon in the ACC's auxiliary gym. 
Detroit was third in the nation last year and they return 15 lettermen from that squad. The Titans boast tremendous strength in their number one fencers. Tyrone Simmons, NCAA champ and gold medalist in the Pan-Am games, leads the foil team. In addition, both Fred Hooker in epee and Ken Blake, in
b ed 11 Am · h 

sa re, earn a -ertca onors 
Often this season, mismatches in size have seen to it that Notre Dame's best is not good enough. At 6-7, 190, Novak is the tallest member of ND's starting lineup, and he has felt the size difference as much as anyone. 
"I'm about the tallest guy we've got," he said, "and I've been shifted around this year. I played forward at the beginning of the season, but I was low--in the pivot spot--against Marquette." Novak's attempts to score from in close have brought frequent contact with the likes of UCLA's Bill Walton (6-11) and Marquette's Jim Chones (also 6­11), and Goose knew what he was talking about when he said "we are at an overall height disad­vantage." 
Against Marquette's number two-rated Warriors, though, Novak was able to ignore the height disadvantage. In what he considers his best personal effort of the season, Novak scored 25 points and grabbed 11 rebounds while working against Chones and 6-9 AI McNeil. , 
"I really wanted to win that one," he remembered "I wanted to win it more than any game we'd played before it~xcept, maybe, UCLA. It just seemed that we could really go all 'Out and beat them." The Irish did come close in that one, but they 
Wed. Feb. 1 6 
Th h 
roU 9 
sun . Feb. 20 priCeS
$4 ~ O $3 $ ·-• •50, 2. 50 Student D js co u n t For Thurs.. apm Sat. 2 pm sun. 6 pm Ti.ckets ar~ '12 Reqular Price Discount Tickets must be
purchased at ACC box 
faltered in the second half and 
fell to the Warriors, 71-62. 
It has been a rough season for Novak and the Irish, but things won't get any easier as the end of the campaign nears. Following games with DePaul <Saturday afternoon) and Bowling Green, the Irish must face a cluster of big name teams--among them North and South Carolina, Villanova, Dayton, and For­dham. But the team's prime concern is with the next op­ponent. and the next opponent is DePaul. · 
"I saw DePaul play Marquette on TV while we were out in Philly," said Novak, "and itlooks like we should be able to press them. They got pretty rattled by Marquette's press, and if we execute well I think we can beat them." 
Then, permitting himself to look ahead, Gary said "We've got. both South Carolina and North Carolina left, and both of them . have been in the top ten. Then we've got Villanova, and I think they're in the top 20. They'll be tough ball games, but it's hard to tell. Maybe the breaks'll go our way in these last games." 
Goose Novak and the Irish cagers have gotten very few breaks this year. Maybe-as Goose said--they will get a few in the next several games. 

~l~~s~t-ly:!:e~~-r~·=---------_.:::========:=:==::::::::::;=:::::;::========::::;~ 
Cultural Arts Commission's Cinema '72 
MONDAY, FEB. 7, AT 7 AND 9:30 
1 
: ·sl1orts: 
CAMpUS CHRISTIE, CRASY RAY, ENTR~CTE, BEGONE CARE, FALL OF THEHOUSE OF USHER, TRIPTOTHEMOON (MELIE.S), ADVENTURES OF AN ANEMIC CINEMA; LA-BYRINTH 

TUESDAY, FEB. 8, AT 7 AND 9 TRANS·EUROP EXPRESS by Alain Robbe . Grille! plus the short CAMPUS CHRISTIE 
THURSDAY, FEB. 10, AT 7 AND 9 GREETINGS by Brian De Palma 
FRIDAY, FEB. 11 AT 7 AND 9 riverrun by John Korty 

Engineering Auditorium $1 .00 patrons free Patron Cards Available -$5.00 
Pege I THE OBSERVER. Thursday, February 10, 1972 





