------------------~-----­
On The Inside 
Frosh don't like cramped rooms...page 2 
Activities Night: who and where... page 7 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII, No. 5 Wednesday, September 13, 1972 
Rapping in Sorin Hall 
Riehle answers frosh overcrowding questions 

by Pete McHugh Observer Staff Reporter 
Questions about the overcrowded situation offresh­man were hurled at Fr. James Riehle, director of Student Housing, last night at an informal rap session in Sorin Hall. He opened the floor immediately for questions. and the barrage did not halt until two hours later. 
In response to the present housing situation he stated that as of September 12 there were 28 beds available and a problem of some overcrowded freshmen who are reluctant to leave halls and-or room where they have already made friends and settled down. 
He stated emphatically that he might resort to forcing overcrowded frosh out of rooms if necessary, and he added that transfer students living off campus would gladly take advantage of the open rooms, but he wished to alleviate the overcrowding as soon as possible. 
As to future housing plans he said that, in spring, many will be forced off campus. He left open the means of deciding who stays or leaves, but expressed a strong opinion.. 
More to go off campus 
As to future housing plans he said that, in spring, many will be forced off campus. He left open the means of deciding who stays or leaves, but expressed a strong opinion against academic dorms or cumula­tive point average placement. Fr. Riehle mentioned the strong possibility of the acquisition of another dorm next year for women, and foresaw no new dorm-Riehle: More dorms to be taken for women next year 
itory facilities being built in the near future. 
1,000 Would Help 
In response to the housing questions, Fr. Riehle outlined the situation existing in the middle of July when 300 freshmen were without beds. He mentioned that 5,000 letters were sent' to upperclassmen in­quiring if they would be willing to share rooms with freshmen if necessary. Of the 4,000 returned, 1,000 were willing to assist in this manner. Fr. Riehle went on to describe the transformation of study lounges and other areas in order to accommodate more students. 
SLC and coed dorms 
On the subject of Student Government and the Stu­dent Life Council, he expressed an opinion that greater communication between the administration and the student body is essential for productive achieve­ments from these organizations. Fr. Riehle did not view the student body as apathetic and spoke of the Student Life Council as a vital fact of the University and he called for the council to look into the long range questions as to who would move off campus, 
the  possibility  of  coed  dorms,  and  the  extension  
of parietals.  
Thieves Nabbed  

Many students expressed great interest in the rash of bicycle thefts, which has plagued the campus. Fr. Riehle said that over $10,000 in bikes were sto­len last year. He went on to say a neighborhood theft ring of teenagers was broken during the summer, and this should greatly diminish the stealing. 
He informed the group of an imprinting device available to the halls, which can inscribe one's social security number on the bike or other valuables, enabling easy identification if lost or stolen. 
Other subjects touched upon were the judicial boards choosing of rectors. and hall autonomy. The discus~ sion seemed to be characterized by openness and a mutual concern by both the students and Fr. Riehle to resolve any communication gap between adminis­tration and student. 
, 
1 
i 
~ 
] 
l 
Kennedy excites McGovern people in Minnesota 
Kennedv called the campaign a racial fear; lonely old people living by Paul Hope in poverty, strong young men andchoice between the " comfortable women forced into idlenessand the concemed," between a(Cl Washington Star-News president who promised to end the because of the mistaken economic 
war and didn't and a candidate policies of this administration a Minneapolis, Minn. Sept. 12-Sen. 
who would end it, between an welfare system unfair and 
demeaning to those ·it seeks toEdward M. Kennedy brought the 
administration that permits five 
million people to be unemployed . serve and to those who pay its out of the droldrums last night 
McGovern presidential campaign costs.
and one that would put everyone to before a roaring, overflow crowd work, a choice between "special 
at the Minneapolis Auditorium interests and the people."
It provided Sen. George S. Kennedy invoked the names of Hits Vietnam McGovern with his most en­his slain brothers, President John 
thusiastic audience since the F. Kennedy and Sen. Robert F. 
McGovern hit hard on the
campaign began lO days ago, and Kennedy, and said McGovern Vietnam War, a subject he has
he and Kennedy used the occasion would carry on in their tradition. 
tended to subordinate to economic
to turn the heat full blast on the "The American people," he added issues in his attempt to rallyNixon administration. aregoingto elect a president whose traditional democratic elements.
They blamed Nixon for num­interests do not lie with Wall 
herous ills at home and abroad and Street, but with Main Street,described the electionas a choice U.S.A.," he siad. 
Pledges economic reliefbetween wall street and main 
street. 
McGovern confidentMcGovern brought Kennedy "I make you two solemnteam moved on to Illinois this pledges," he said. "Withing 90morning, and will cover seven Buoyed by Kennedy's in­days of inauguration, we will bring states before Kennedy departs to tertainers and warm-up-speakers . people who support his candidacy" 
the campaign occasionally over and singing campaign songs. and asked Nixon why he won't troduction and the roaring home every American soldier and response from the crowd, every prisoner of war. And never
the next several weeks, and will be While it was obvious that Ken­disclose the names of contributors. 
McGovern said he felt "very much again will we send the preciousavailable for whatever help nedy was a big drawing card, The $10 million was raised before 
McGovern requests during the like I did some eight months ago, young blood of this contry to prop
McGovern received a tumultuous the new campaign finance 
final two weeks, and aide said. when public opinion polls showed up a corrupt military dictatorship 
welcome and applause was disclosure law went into effect in us about 4 per cent, just shortly 10,000 miles away."
showered on him throughout his April. 
before we started the drive that led On the economy he. adds another
Youth cheer speech. Kennedy said the wheat sale to us to victorv and the nomination." pledge: "We will guarantee aKennedy laced into the Nixon Russia enriched big grain cor­decent job opportunity for every
Administration during his 10-porations at the expense of far­McGovern told the audience not
The youthful audience jammed man and woman in America who is
minute speech introducing mers, and asked Nixon to explain to listen to the Repubiican cry of " 
the 8,500 seat Minneapolis audi­able to work."
McGovern. He demanded answers it. four more years" for Nixon. He
torium early andauthorities turned McGovern, who is trying to shed
from Nixon about what he termed said it would mean four more 
away a large number on orders the image of a party maverick, 
the" secret !10-million slush fund" Decries Watergate years of American sons and Asian 
brought up the names of all the
from the fire marshall. raised for the Republican Cam­· children dying in Vietnam; hungry Democratic presidents back toKennedy was late getting into paign, the "Wheat Deal with On the watergate bugging, he children, and young G.I.'s 
Woodrow Wilson, and manytown, and by the time he and Russia,' and the "Watergate said Nixon should listen to the hopelessly hooked on heroin, current Democratic leaders. HeMcGovern arrived at the hall, the . Bugging Scandal." people in public rather than " and mothers who can.t pay said Democrtas should drawcrowd had worked itself into a He said McGovern " is not trying to eavesdrop on McGovern grocery bills; wiretappers, war­strength from them.
heated state listening to en-ashamed to publish the names of and Larry O'Brien in private." mongers, and the purveyors of 

r 
r 
r 
f 
[ 
~ 
the observer Wednesday, September 13, 1972
2 
warld 
briefs 
washington-The Two principal United States intelligence agencies have concluded in recent reports submitted to the White House that Hanoi can sustain the fighting in South Vietnam "At the present rate" for the next two years despite massive American bombings of the North. R~ports from the Central Intelligence Agency and the Defense Inte~1gence Agency concurred that the bombing has failed to slow down mearungfully the flow of men and equipment to South Vietnam. 
Washington -To finance about half of his campaign costs during July and August Sen. George McGovern borrowed more than $2 million from suppor;ters, including $400,000 from the Political Action Fun~ of_ the United Auto Workers Union ($2,000) and from the Commumcations Workers of America ($1,000) and the Machinist Non-Partisan Political League ($1,000). 
New York-The New York State Commission on Attica concluded in its final report that Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller should have gone to the upstate prison before he committeed armed forces. The report noted the spontaneous nature of the uprising and criticised lack of planning in the negotiations, Jack of coordination in the assault and unsuitable weaponry, among other things. 
an campu• taday 
7:30--meeting, formal registration meeting for the american scene cultural series, , smc 8:00--lecture, anthony hecht, little known facts In the sex life of harriet beecher stowe, library auditorium. 
thursday 
1: 30--reading, anthony hecht, selected poems, library auditorium. 
4: 30--picnic, september thing, south dining hall lawn. 
6: 15--talk, fr. theodore hesburgh, south quad in front of dillon. 
88: 00--lecture, dorothy solle, the role of radical theology, galvin life science auditorium. 


at nd-smc: 

f 



Freshmen displeased with 
,i ~ 
r cramped room situation 
I r by Ed Ellis Obst•rvt•r Associate Editor 
Over 300 freshmen are living in overcrowded rooms, study lounges and hall basements this year, and for the time being at least. most say they can get used to 
rt. ~ 
The overcrowding resulted from a mistake in the University llousing office this summer, and forced the conversion of study lounges, hall basements, and even the Old College into dormitory rooms for freshmen. According to Acting Vice-President for Student Mfairs Philip Faccenda no up­perclassmen were cramped tby the emergency measures taken in August, despite the fact that about one thousand offered to share their own room space. 
agony 
Some frosh seem rather disgusted by the whole thing, despite promises from the University that the situation is only temporary. One of their gripes is that they are not provided with enough desks or lockers. 

l 
Bob Zierk, from Morrissey, complains, "You pay all this money to come here and then you don't even get what you need." 
Zierk is in a quad that has been converted to house six. His 

r roommate, Dave Hennessey commented, "The maid can't even get in our room to clean it." 
Hennessey concludes, "It seems that a Universitv with an acar!Pmic rating like this one would find something better than sticking six people in three rooms." 
In Flanner and Grace Towers, where the study lounges on each floor now house six students, only three tables and three chests of drawers are pi ovided in each room. Nothing more will fit. f<'requent complaints concern elevator noise, curtains that don't shut out hall light, and noise coming from the elevator lobbies on each floor. 
I feel like I'm not getting my money's worth," says Joe Zmolek. His roommate, Pete Rukovina, adds, "you just can't move around." 
Tom Goode, in Grace, calls it "a pretty inconvenient situation," and complains about lack of drawer space, towel racks, and mirrors . 
.Many students in the Towers are upset about the room rates for the forced sixpacks. One student noted that the rate was twenty dollars less than the regular double rate for the towers, and said he thought it should be lower. 
The conserns_ Anthony Ponzio, Resident Assistant, who reports success so far, but who holds some reservations. "lt.s a bit too tight in the five-man suites,"he says. "The four-man suites ought to be leveled down and separated into singles." 

! r 
Ponzio also said he regretted 

l 
that all the "Brothers" are fresh­men. He says that this is bad, especially since they are separated from the rest of the hall. 
Acceptance 
Despit the problems, most of the crowded students, as well as their 
H.A. 's seem to be making the best of things as they are. Pete Reid, a resident of Morrissey, sums up the feelings of most frosh, "I don't like it. but we get along alright and I 


Even in the Towers, the most prominent reaction seems to be a sort of wry humor. "You're never lonely" says one sign. "Come on in. Everbody else lives here, "invites another. 
One Flanner resident says, ''When I first was it I was really messed up. But it's the en­viromnent and you got to live with it. It's worthless to complain and make the situation worse." 
Compatibility of roommates will be the key to how long the crowded conditions can endure. Most fresh­

from Chicago 
THE SIEGAL SCHWALL 
BLUES BAND 
Also appearing: Resurrection (from Indianapolis) SATURDAY, SEPTMEMBER 16 
8: p.m. Admission: $3.50 (advance), $4.00 (at the door) All sears reserved. Advance tickets available at Morris Civic Auditorium Box Office or at Pandora's Books. tv\ail orders accepted--En­closesetf addressed stamped envelope and check or money order. 
211 N Michigan Avenue Downtown South Bend 
232-6904 


BICYCLE CENTER 
OPEN MONDAY 'TIL 8:30 PM Closed Sat. Sept. 9 and Mon. Sept. 18 Phone 287-1623 Daily 9:30 'til5:30 1437 Portage Ave.
Four of a forced "six-pack" in Flanner study lounge 

-BICYCLES­
MIDDLE WEIGHTS LIGHT WEIGHTS RACING 
3 SPEED..s SPEED--10 SPEED--TANDEMS 
QUALITY 
IMPORTED 
10 SPEEDS 
$99.00 & up 
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY 

SEALS & CROFTS 
.
In concert 

plus special guest star 
This Friday at 8:00 in Stepan Center 
ALL TI CKETS---$2.50 
Tickets Available TONIGHT During Activities Night at the 
•••pres ented by the 
Student Union Office 
Student Union 
(4th Floor LaFortune) CHICAGO tickets will also be available at this time. 
Wednesday, September 13, 1972 

the observer 
3 

Financial situation not good for Univers~y Press 
$17,401.91. While the Press ex­by Ann Therese Darin pended $117,259.07 for the printing 
Campus News Editor of new books and $208,230.84 for 
operating expenses, it only took in 
$302,835.21 for the sales of books 
Imagine a pile of 50,000 one­and $5,253.56 for other income. dollar bills stacked the height of "The financial problem of the 
the fifth floor of the University press is ultimately connected with library. It would take an annual the financial problem of the shot of this$50,000 to revitalize the university," explained Dr. William fifth-floor based University of T. Liu, Press editorial board 
Notre Dame Press operations. member. "There is a temporary For the fiscal year 1970-71, the monetary crisis in all facets of latest audit on the publishing American education." 
service shows a cash loss of Last year the Press did have its 
Student Trip reservations . being taken in Lafortune 
Reservations for the ND-SMC 

Student Trip to Denver Nov. 10-12 
can be made this week and next at 
the off campus office in the 
basement of La Fortune between 
ll :30a.m. and I:00 p.m.. Those who 
made advance reservations this 
summer should also pay the 
balance at this time. 
The trip is being planned in 

conjunction with the Notre Dame 
Denver Alumni Club. Highlights 
include the round trip flight from 

Chicago to Denver on Continental 
DC-10, 2 nights at the New AlbaJ:}y 
Hotel, and a short tour of the Air 
Force Academy Saturday mor­

ning. 
The Alumni Club has also sh­

cheduled a pep rally Friday and 2 
victory parties Saturday night. 
Game ticket and all bus passages 
are included in the cost of $140. 
Buses leave from the circle at 
J:p.m. Friday and the return flight leaves Denver around 4:p'.m. Sunday to arrive here around midnight. To make reservations by mail, send check of $140 or the balance payable to the Notre 

Wilson gives short talk 


best sellers: La Raza (21,826), right to life, and the University Galois Theory 07,301), Students' Press employees disagree. Guide 02,719) and the Meaning of University Administrators claim 
Sacred Scripture (12,425). that the Press has actually lost However, for a book to make $112,277.71 for 1970-71. In addition money, according to John Eh­to operating expenses, the mann, acting university press University accountants figure director, it usually takes close to $41,910.94 inventory write down five years. and $5,684.67 account receivable 
"When we have had a book in write-off as losses. inventory for five years, the cost of "It is just an accounting trick," the rest of the copies of the book claims Schossberger. But trick or are totaled and considered a loss. · no, with the present losses The book, however, still stays in acquired by the press, and more our inventory. From the sixth year anticipated this year, according to until it is out of print, the book is informed sources within the 100 per cent profit," says Ms. University, the Press's continued Emily Schossberger, recently existence is an open question. retired University Press director. Ehmann estimated this year's 
However, it is on this point that cash flow at $30,000 deficit. "This the University administration, $14,000 additional loss for this year which is currently reviewing the is due to income hard to tie down, .Profitless press and debating on its normal increment in salaries and 
increased advertising." 
Ironically, according to the


SMC senior pix 
acting Press directory, "You don't want to be too aggressive in selling university press boks. If a book jobber (seller), can't sell a book he St. Mary'asenior pictures will be has ordered, he will return the taken beginning this week on books for a credit and we wil have 


signups this week 
to resell them." 
Compared to other universities, book for book, UNDP rates in the 1500-3000 copies per manuscript category. Even this middle-weight rating may not save the press. 
"It is inherent in the nature of the beast for the University Press to lose money," mused Rev. Paul Beichner, Press editorial board member. "If it were a profitable venture, commercial houses would be trying to do it, too. It is like trying to win a game after giving away your best players." 
Because university presses are part of non-income producing, tax­exempt universities, university presses receive the same privileges. If the UNDP made a significant profit, commercial publishing houses could file a complaint with the IRS to change the Press's status to taxable. 
Rumors indicate that the University is willing to subsidize the Press with an annual $50,000. In the break~ven situation which hems in Press profits, the Press's continued existence remains in limbo. 
Thursday, September 14. Signup posters will be located on both sides of the dining hall beginning Monday, Septeber 11. Sitting times will run from 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 noon and 1:15 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. Thursday, September 17 to Friday, 
Our Specialty
September 22. 

Created with Old World Atmosphere.
All times on Sunday, September 

Specializing in German and American Foods.
24 are reserved only for those in med tech or student teaching who 

Open 10:30 a.m. to 10:30 p.m.
cannot come during the week. 

Closed Sundays and Holidays
Pictures will be postponed only if 

South Bends Finest Banquet Rooms 
there is a downpour; they will be 

The Alpine & Bavarian Rooms 
taken on schedule on cloudy days. If pictures are postponed they will all be rescheduled. 


The price for the sitting and 

Student Govt. Presents: 
eight 4" by 5" color proofs is $8:00, preferably a check, to be paid upon arrival for the sitting. Each sitting is 15 minutes long and proofs may be kept. St. Mary's library will be 



ACTIVITIES NIGHT 
the central meeting place with the photographer. 
Students may wear what they wish and may request photographing location, provided 

Wednesday Sept. 13th 
it is on SMC grounds and within a short distance from the library. Proofs will be processed within two weeks and distributed in the dining 
hall lobby. 


7:00-11:30 pm
Further information m~y be obtained by contacting Blue Mantle editor Ginnie Russell at 4691. 
says he is glad to see this office 


LaFortune Student Center
moving toward, are consumer protection and environmental protection. He also would like to see the office become a little bit 
(continued on page 12) 
by Jim Early Observer Staff Reporter 
Ted Wilson, Indiana Democratic Candidate for the Attorney General, visited the campus here yesterday, and gave a short talk on the role of an Attorney General in the state government. 
Wilson arrived at the Wenninger­Kirsch building at 11:00 and shook hands for fifteen minutes until he began the talk. He first stated that the primary role of the Attorney General is to give legal advice and opinion to the governor and other elected officials. The office is a statutory one, not a constitutional one. i.e., it is not provided for the state's constitution. 
It is not to be confused with the prosecutor's or district attorney's offices which are involved with law enforcement. "This is not the role of an attorney general at all," Wilson stated. The attorney general makes legislative proposals for changes in different areas of the government. 
There are various ways in which the Attorney General advises the state officials. He does this mostly through friendly telephone calls or letters which may be stamped either advisory, unOfficial, or official, the latter, of couurse, having the most influence. Some new directions. in which Wilson 
MICHAEL'S.... 
-~ 
EXPERTS AT ONTEMPORARY 



LOCAL TALENT 
STYLING 


ATTENTION 

Anyone Wishing to Have Their Name Placed in a Directory 
of Campus and Local Talent Now Being compiled,
~TYLED FOR • MORE CONTROL AND EASIER 

Please Contact Dave Bennett at 7757 (leave a Message)
MANAGEMENT BETWEEN' HAIRCUTS' .... 

or Write to Box 639, Notre Dame; lN. 
Complete line of services/
fbr the particular male Appointments if desired· 

Please Include all Pertinent Info. MICHAEL'S HAIR STYLING
FOR MEN., 

(Type of M-usic, Price, Dates, Address) 272L7222 
18381 Edison 
'h_ mil~ east of campus' 


the observer Wednesday, September 13, 1972 
S.B. area groups push voting drive A SEPTEMBER THING: 
by Kim Kittrell 

There is an extensive voter registration drive being conducted for Notre Dame-Saint Mary's students to prepare for the November election. There are several organizations par­ticipating in this drive, including the League of Women Voters of South Bend, the McGovern organizations of South Bend and ND-SMC and the Young Voters for the President. The Voter Registration Office of Saint Joseph County is also very active, though it concentrates more on the city than the campus. 
All of these groups will be con­centrating their drives on campus until September 23. Mter this date. students who wish to register to vote will have to do so at the Voter Registration Office on the fourth floor of the County-City Builiding in South Bend. Registration will continue till October 10. 
The process of registering is very simple. A student must sign an affadavit giving his name and his present address and present proof of his age. The residency requirement in the South Bend township is 60 days. 
Students may register in either their home state or in Indiana. Whether a student registers in Indiana or not is a matter of personal preference. If a student wants to register in his home state he may do so by mail through the Voter Registration Office down­town. 
Also if a student is already registered in his home state but would rather vote in Indiana, he can register in Indiana if he tells the registrar about it. The registrar will then send through a cancellation of the earlier registration. 

Students who register in their home state must vote by using an absentee ballot. Each state has a different process for absentee voting. Therefore each student registered in another state should know the procedure for absentee voting in that state. 
Most states require requests for absentee ballots from 90 days to at least 4 days prior to the election and the ballots themselves no later than the day of the election. 
If a student is uncertain about the ruling for his state he should either check with the Registration 
Volunteers 
needed for 

Headstart 
by Michael Charles Observer Staff Reporter 
The Headstart program which 
has 31 centers in the South Bend 
area is recruiting volunteers to 
help serve approximately 600 four 
year old children. The program 
will have a recruiting booth tonight 
in LaFortune Center at Activity 
Night. 
Initiated in 1966 under the 
guidance of Lyndon Johnson, 
Headstart's primary purpose was 
to aid underpriveleged four year 
olds before their entry into kin­
dergarten. This aid was to be 
distributed on all levels: 
educational, social, health. 
Parents were also encouraged to 
get involved in the program. 
Headstart offers this help to 
socially and financially deprived 
children. Students who are at­
tending school on loans are also 
eligible under Headstart. Children 
in this program receive kin­
dergarten type courses to help 
them adjust to school. They 
receive medical attention in the 
form of shots, and if the children 
have any physical, speech, 
hearing, or seeing impairments 
help is available. During school 
days hot lunches are served. 

Office or contact Mrs. Dennis Dugan of the League of Women Voters. 



PICNIC & 

The League of Women Voters as been very active in registration. It set up a table to 
.CELEBRATION! 

register voters on the day students 
registered for school. On the next 
5:00 PICNIC
two Saturdays, the League will have booths at the twelve city fire 
IN FRONT OF 
stations for the purpose of aiding 
BOTH THE NORTH 
people who want to register to 
& SOUTH 

vote. The addresses of the two fire 
DfNlNG HALLS
stations closest to the ND-SMC 
campus are: 110 East Marion (on 
North Michigan by the 
McDonalds) and 1805 McKinley. 
Another activity sponsored by the League is a Candidate's Reception to be held this Saturday, September 16. All state, local and congressional candidates were invited to attend this open house. It will be held at Tippicanoe Place 
WELCOME by f r. hesburgh
on Washington. All students are 
followed by buzz session
invited to attend this event, which will provide them with an excellent 
in front of 

opportunity to meet the can­
dining hall

didates. 
so~th quad

Both the ND.SMC Committee for the Support of the McGovern­Shriver Ticket and the Young Voters for the President will be 
**** IN ** •••••••••••••••••••
sponsoring booths at the Student 
PICNIC IN NORTH
Government Activity Night which is being held' tonight in the 
CASE & SOUTH DINING
LaFortune Student Center. This is to help students get registered. 
HALLS··-WELCOME 
Also the organizations have 
& liTURGY IN LA
representatives throughout the campus who are able to students 
FORTUNE-~SAME TIME 
who want to register to vote. 
Also students may register in the afternoons at the Dome office in the LaFortune Student Center. 

NICKlES 
-Now with full Assortment of Drinks and Wines 
-Delicious Hot Dogs Also Available 
OPEN: 2:00 p.111. to 3:00 a.111. MONDAY thru SATURDAY HAPPY HOUR: 3:30 to 5:00 
Everyday but Friday 
-Manhattan 50 cents -Martini 50 cents -and a cast of thousands 
LADIES NIGHT: Every Thursday 
-wine coolers 30 cents -25% off on all blended drinks 

LOCATED: 928 N. EDDY 
Inquire about pool tournament 
-~-----------------------­
5 

Permission granted for Viet strikes, Lavelle tells Senate 
by Seymour M. Hersh 
<c> 1972 New York Times 

Washington, Sept. 12-Lt. Gen. John D. Lavelle has told the Senate Armed Services Committee that he received permission from Adm. Thomas H. Moorer and Gen. Creighton W. Abrams before or­dering a series of attacks on North Vietnamese airfields in Novem­ber, 1971, well-placed sources said today. 
Moorer is chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and Abrams, whose confirmation by the Senate as Army Chief of Staff is being held up by the Lavelle hearings, was then the Commander of U.S. forces in South Vietnam. 
The missions, later reported as "protective reaction" strikes-that is, raids against targets posing an immediate threat to pilots-were the first of at least 20 strikes against North Vietnam by Lavelle's Seventh Air Force at a time before renewed heavy bombing of the North was authorized. 
The seriousness of Lavelle's accusations was underscored by Sen. John C. Stennis, Chairman of the Armed Services Committee, when he told reporters this evening that he had summoned Abrams to appear before another closed session of the committee tomorrow. 
Stennis said the committee, which heard more than four hours of testimony from Lavelle today, would not proceed with con­sideration of the nomination of Abrams as Army Chief of Staff until the Lavelle matter was cleared up. He refused to say how long that would take. 
In response to a question, Stennis 

acknowledged that the closed 
hearings had raised an issue of: 
"What was Abram's duty and what 
should he have done?" 
Lavelle was relieved of his 

comm~nd and demoted from full 
general last March after an Air 
Force Serbeant wrote a letter of 
complaint about the raids. The 
unauthorized raids ended on 
March 8, less than a month before 
President Nixon ordered the 
sustained bombing of North 
Vietnam. 
Abrams could not be reac:ned for 

comment today, but an aide said 
none was likely in view of the 
Senate hearings. An aide to 
Moorer confirmed that the Ad­
miral was in Saigon on Nov. 8, the 
day of the first raid, and also 
acknowledged that he had been 
briefed by Lavelle. 
But the aide quoted Moorer as 

saying that "There was no in­
dication of anything that did not 
conform" with the rules of 
engagement during the Lavelle 
briefing. 
Earlier this summer, during 

confirmation hearings on his 
reappointment as Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs, Moorer testified that 
his staff had noticed an Air Force 
attack on an unauthorized radar 
site sometime in December, and 
had ordered Lavelle to stop such 
raids. 
According to Congressional 

sources, Moorer "told the Senate 
Armed Services Committee that 
after a review by Secretary of 
Defense Melvin R. Laird, it was 
decided to place radar sites on the 
list of approved targets. The radar 
controlled North Vietnamese 
aircraft. 
Lavelle returned to the Capitol 

today for another closed session 
with the committee. 
At one point during the af­ternoon, Sen. Stuart Symington, D.-Mo., stepped out of the hearing room briefly and told reporters : "I'm convinced that a lot of people below him and a lot of people above him knew of the attacks." 

Symington added, in response to a question, that higher com­manders "knew of the nature of the raids" and "knew what he was doing." He declined to elaborate. 
Congressional sources said that Lavelle, in his testimony before the Senate committee, contended that he had received permission for the strikes from Abrams and Moorer at a meeting in Saigon. 
One target--Guanglang Airfield, some 180 miles north of the demilitarized zone--was in an area of North Vietnam usually attacked by navy planes stationed on air­craft carriers in the Gulf of Tonkin. 
Congressional sources said Lavelle told the Senate Committee that Moorer had personally assured him that he would get permission for the Air Force to stage the raids. 
Lavelle was quoted by Congressional sources as testifying that on the next morning as the Admiral was preparing to board a flight at Tansonnhut Airfield in Saigon he presented Moorer with a series of poststrike reconnaissance photographs. 
Lavelle is known to have told 
others, a source close to the 
General said today, that during a 
visit in mid-November to Honolulu 
he also discussed the mission with 
Adm. John S. McCain, who was 
then commander-in-chief of the 
Pacific forces. McCain retired this 
month. 

SENIORS 
LAST CHANCE FOR YEARBOOK PHOTOS! 
Friday Sept. 15th 9:30--2:00 (first come first served) 
Room 2-C LaFortune 
Wear suitcoat and tie of your preference -Girls, wear your best! 
All photos taken in color. A $10 deposit is required at the time the photos are taken... ! 
$5 of this amount is good towards any order. 
LAST CHANCE YEARBOOK PHOTOS 


SENIORS 
Any questions, call yearbook office 
Phone:7524 or 7085 

~BOAC. 
EUROPE and BACK an Incredible $190! 
call Clark for details 283-8810 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Editor-in-chiefNews: 283-1715 EditoriaI: 283-8661 Don RuaneBusiness: 283-7471 Executive Editor Dan Thornton Business Manager 

Joe Butler Advertising Manager 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Wednesday, September 13, 1972 
Frosh Beds Again 
If you've been thinking about moving off campus, it wouldn't be a bad idea to think a little harder, because you may have to move next year, like it or not. 
The freshmen overcrowding problem is approaching the permanent situation that many have feared would develop, and the only apparent solution, short of constructing a new dormitory, is to move off campus. 
Although 28 beds have become available already, there are still more than 300 freshmen stuffed into lounges,basement, and room intended for one or two thirds their present occupancy. 
Money's Worth? 

Many freshmen feel they are getting_~ raw deal for the $2,450 tuition and average$1,100 room and board fee. Morrissey resident Bob Zierk says, "You pay all this money to come here, and then you don't even get what you need." His roommate, Dave Hennessey adds, "The maid can't even get in our room to clean it." And Joe Zmolek from the Towers sums it all up with, "I feel like I'm not getting my money's worth." 
And they're not. The freshmen that are packed tighter than sardines must en­dure "temporary"' impediments to study such lobby noises, clanking eleva tor cables and roommates who must climb over them to get out to the wide open spaces of the hallway. 
Everybody Suffers Upperclassmen also suffer. Former study lounges, which many found con­venient, and productive are now private rooms, if you can stretch your imagination that far. The hall suffers because former lounge space is now occupied, thus eliminating pla~es where hall spirit can be encouraged m anyway from simple d i.scussions to social ac­tivities. 
The University has tried to solve the problem, but has come up empty handed. Rooms in Moreau Seminary are too few and removed from campus, if they are not already occupied by religious members of the seminary faculty. St. 
daanesbury 

Joseph's Hall is likewise filled. T_he o~her alternative, besides the present situation, was to place freshmen in the rooms of the 1,000 upperclassmen who said they were willing to accept a freshman on atem­porary basis. 
If it appears the upperclassmen would 
have to house the freshman for the entire 
year, it certainly would be better than the 
present condition, because there would 
be no need to put more than one extra 
person in a room, not to mention the 
influence of an upperclassman. 
The University should investigate 
moving the overcrowded freshmen into 
these rooms by the end of this semester, 
or in time for the start of the spring 
semester, if upperclassmen are still 
wHiling .to accept them. 
As a second move the University should 
take the necessary steps to improve the 
availability and quality of off-campus 
housing. This may mean that ND would 
be entering the off-campus housing
market itself. 

Waiting useless It is not feasible for the University to wait for more beds to become available. Student attrition will drop off as the semester grows old, and other bed sources such as sickness and suspension simply will not meet the demand. It is unlikely that the number of students moving off campus between semesters will be large due to the shortage of good housing in the area. Itis also unlikely the January graduates will empty enoughbeds either. 
In the meantime, freshmen and up­perclassmen will have to endure reduced quality and quantity in hall study and recreational areas. The sting of over­crowding is still felt more be the fresh­men because he is paying for something he is not receiving. The only good thing to come of all this are the strong bonds of friendship that some overcrowded fresh­men have managed to form. 
Don Ruane 
by r:~arry lrudeau 

I'M MilKING II 
C/.MN BREJIK, HIKE. 
yoi/R
I'M SeNPING MCK 
NilHE,
-rD 11'I Ht15BIINP 
Pt£R5el'

AU-f'He OONttcr.S He IAI/ISHeP 0/111 \I /Iff!. 
11Y N/JI'fe 
/5 l'f!<5 
.TO/IN!£
CRvcus' 


FarWhat It's Warth 

The Public or the Profit 
dan ruane 

With all respect to the families of the slain Israeli athletes, there is 
little more that can be said about the Olympic tragedy that has not 
been said already. On the international scale Israel and West Ger­
many will bicker about the tactics used to resolve the drama, and 
outraged world leaders will seek diplomatic methods, to a~enge ~he 
murders and hopefully prevent more of them, against countnes which 
give aid and shelter to terrorists. . 
Nationally, the tragedy revealed something . about _our me~Ia, 
particularly our electronic media, that most Americans missed durmg 
the drama. 1 discovered it, and base this column on my source, as I 
read one of the numerous stories from Munich that night which came 
across the New York Times wire service. 
According to the Times story by John J. O'Connor, A.B.~. ~cooped 
the other networks because it had reserved satellite transmissiOn time 
for its outstanding Olympic coverage. After the Arabs invaded the 
Israeli quarters, and the story broke, both C.B.S. and N.B.C. 
requested pooled coverage in which each network would use the same 
picture and a unilateral soundtrack. 
A.B.C. refused, and a spokesman later said that the other networks had not gone through proper channels. By mid-afternoon, after charges and counter charges of no cooperation, had flown among network heads, pooled coverage was finally ~chieved. , . 
Serious questions of journalistic ethics are raised by A.B.C s actiOn. The first canon of journalism is that the right of a ne~s age~cy to attract and hold readers is restricted by nothing but consideration for public welfare. Any journalist who does otherwise can'_t be t~sted. The third canon states in part that promotion of any pnvate mterest contrary to the public welfare, for whatever reason, is not compatible with honest journalism. 
A.B.C. 
had it'made. They scooped the other networks and they controlled transmission for a good deal of the time. This means that 

A.B.C. 
could point to it's coverage, in later public relation efforts, as the most complete of any network or news agency, of one of the top news stories of the year, if not the decade. This means money, and 

A.B.C. 
knew it and exploited it. If that isn't a private inte~est and betrayal of journalistic ethics, I don't know what constitutes a betrayal. . . 


Just to back it up a little more, A.B.C. signed off from Mumch m t~e afternoon, citing "prior commitments,~'.according to O'Conn_or. }his was at 1 p.m., "just as German authorities s~med m~re active, the Times reporter wrote. !Jt is also the approximate time when those highly profitable, but pitiful soap operas begin. . 
A.B.C. should have invited the other networks to share Its coverage after the first reports of the attack. Scoops have always been an in­tegral part of journalism and A.B.C. was the rightful heir to this one. But to monopolize coverage violates the first canon. 
Many an intelligent viewer selects a favorite network and co~­mentator because in their opinion, they receive the best coverage, m a most p;eferable sytle. And the networks recognize this. Why else would they advertise their newsmen. For example N:B.C. ~eatu~es Derrek Utley as the offspring of parents well established m prmt journalism, and that he is the new breed in electronic journalism. Most of us have seen David Brinkley and Harry Reasoner as they prepare journal and commentary, respectfully. 
Viewers turn to their favorite network and commentator much the same way they rely on special routines and methods for d~ing _thing~. 
A.B.C. should have given them the opportunity of tunmg m their preferred channel. Instead, C.B.S. fans could get the reports on the 7 
a.m. news, and from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. N.B.C. supporters got their reports via a telephone hookup to the Today Show. ~.B.C. broadc~st from 11:30 a.m. untill p.m., when C.B.S. took over rights to satellite time. At 2 p.m. coverage was finally ,pooled 
C.B.S. also violated canon one by refusing to pool with A.B.C., in apparent retaliation. A.B.C.'s excuse that the others went throu~h _the wrong channels is extremely lame. There is no doubt that top officials would have contacted top officials in this case. 
The problem is that the networks are not being ru~ by jo~~ali~ts, but by big businessmen who have allowed the profit maximizatiOn motive to overrule the journalistic goal of protecting the public welfare. 
Journalists had better take a tougher look at themselves, and ask why such practices are allowed to develop. Apparently Vice President Agnew was closer to reality than we thought when he raked the media. Journalists should control journalism. It is apparent that top network officials are not journalists, and it is quite safe to assume that much of the print media suffers the same malady. It's time these men learned some ethics, or they should be tossed out by the real jour­nalists. 
111111111111-1111111111111111111111111111-llllll_____llllllllllllll____ 
the issu• staff: 
Nite Editor: Jack Frischkorn Ass't Nite Editor: Albert D'Antonio Layout: Mike Baum, Joe Abell Day Editor: Bill Sohn Typists: Rust, Meloy, Halley, Anastasoff Nite Controller: John Flannigan 

------------~---------------------------­
7
!:!JIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllftiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
= = 
§ ~ ~ 5 ~ 
~ § 

siegal -schwaII saturday 8:00 
~ .......... ·· 
§ 
~ ~ 
= § ~ = 
I I 
E E
E ~ 






I = I = 
~ ~ 
= seals & crofts friday 8:00 iii 
!IIII 111111 IIIII IIIII 11111111111 II II II """'" " 111111 II IIIIIII II IIIIIII IIIIIII II II IIIIIII II II IIIIIII II 1111111111111111111 II 111111111111 Ill 1111 IIIIIIIIHIIII II II 11111111111 II 1111111111 II II IIIIIII II II 111111111 111111111111 II 11111111111 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIQII II 1111111"'" IIIIIIIIIIIIQIIIIIII 
baltic center initiated at notre dame 

paulius pakauskas 
In practical, day-to-day affairs Americans shave unconditionally guaranteed democratic rights-which in­tellectually and emotionally have little meaning for them. In the midst of our campaign propoganda, terms such as freedom of speech, justice and moral values sound hollow and blase. 
Such is not the case in the U.S.S.R. where no one has had enough freedom to sully these moral and civil ideals; they are spoken of with much more intellectual conviction and fervor when they are sadly lacking in practical affairs. It behooves us to listen to the protests of the Soviet dissidents, since they are expressedly ad­dressed to World Opinion. Their genuine sincerity might generate a more genuine concern for these values in our own country. 
To promote awareness of these struggles for more freedom, the Lithuanian Liberation Front is organizaing the Baltic Center of Studies at Notre Dame. It will deal in depth with the social, political and religious situation of the dissidents, especially concentrating on that of Lithuania. 
The repression of the Russian Jews has received considerable attention from the West already. Religious persecution is general throughout the country; Jewish protest was focused on the inability of in­dividuals to leave the country. 
The Soviet "civil rights" movement of democratic minded Russian intellectuals has also received much attention. Although the dissenters were advocating an ex­pansion of free expression within the legal distinction:; of the Soviet Law, Pyotr Yakir, Vlademir Bukovsky, Andrei Amalrik, Maj. 

Gen. Pyotr Grigorenko, Pavel Litvinov and more than 200 others have been sent to prisons, a Siberian exile or to mental hospitals. 
However, the peoples' determination to be informed has developed an incredible un­derground press system circulating materials from hand to hand across the whole continent. The Communist newspaper of Saratov reports: "To fill their reserves, the samizdatchiki seek ties with other cities ... They arrive with copies of the originals, which have been given abroad. Immediately, blank sheets of paper go into the typewriters. They don't sleep night­s ... (copying) literary manuscripts ... one copy for oneself, the rest for distribution." 
The samizadat have in-depth reports on struggles less familiar to tlie West: the Crimean Tartars reque8t to return to their old homeland, the letter by the "17 Latvian Communists" denouncing Kremlin policies of Russification in Latvia, and the spec­tacular petition of last spring demanding rights for the Roman Catholic Church in Lithuania-17,000signatures, followed by the self-immolation of a Lithuanian student, riots in Kaunas and the death of eight paratroopers. Lithuanian protest movement may well be the most difficult with which Brezhnev and his colleagues have yet had to deal..." Since Lithuania is a key element in the peoples struggles for more freedom against the Party govern­ment, the Baltic Center will focus on this country in depth. 
This will be an informal studies center. All interested "samizdatchiki" please contact the Center during the Students Activity Night. 

rising stars in comic-strip galaxy 
Charlie Brown and Archie Bunker, Dagwood, Jughead, even Dennis the Menace. Although only products of the pen, they portray the truly human humans, the victims of everyday life through whom most of us can laugh at our own failures, frustrations, and flaws. Their comic foibles make life much lighter. 
Now a new set of comic-strip characters is lightening The Way. From "Doonesbury," by 23-year-old Yale graduate-student Garry Trudeau, meet: 
Michael J. Doonesbury: a grown-up but still hapless Charlie Brown-loner, putdown lover, and general loser. A liberal middle-of-the-roader, ridiculed by women and extremist friends at Yale (and generally ignored by everyone but his parents), he's adored by and almost too identfiable to his reading public. 
B.D.: star Yale quarterback, as unin­terested in issues and education as he is devoted to women and athletics. An old-fashioned conservative of hard-hat sesibility, symbolized by the football helmet he wears everywhere, including in bed. 
"Megaphone" Mark Slackmeyer: campus radical who never quite makes it as a revolutionary because of his passion for the pleasure of the president's office during campus take-overs. 
Together the on-campus trio have brightened the pages of more than 150 nnewspapers daily since Doonesbury was first picked up from the Yale Daily News and syndicated by the Universal Press Syndicate just one and one-half years ago. 
Immediate success discussed 

Evidence of its immediate success is a collection of Doonesbury•s best strips, published last year by American Heritage Press. The book is complete with a foreword from Erich Segal, the car­toonists's former professor and author of ''Love Story,'' who explains why 
· Doonesbury has become so popular: "We laugh because what he shows us is so true, but more important, we smile because he has been so gentle." Although only four years old, the strip has gone through three stages. Originally it appeared in the Yale student paper as "Squiggles" during Mr. Trudeau's sophomore year, maturing into real Yale people and places under "Bull Tales" for the next two years. Its current title came out of the necessity for continuing the strip beyond Yale, the author has explained. Since syndication, Doonesbury has also grown from strictly campus come-ons to international events. B.D., for example, is currently serving in Vietnam. Mr. Trudeau is the antithesis of his characters. A handsome New York 
blueblood, his life already has been flavored with such spirited ventures as designing light murals for New York Mayor John Lindsay's ping-pong room at Gracie Mansion; participating in an archaeological excavation of a medieval English·village; working in the United States Embassy in Madrid; and co-founding and editing a tri­lingual magazine for the Washington diplomatic corps. 
But while he-s hardly a man whose everyday life tastes of everyday life, he has confessed that "sure, I'm the model for Mike Doonesbury. I've gone through a lot of what he goes through." 
robin wright 
Doonesbury's topics already have won it a reputation as the boldest strip on most comic pages. His subjects include race, sex, politics, the war, even individuals such as Yale Prof. Charles '"Greening of America" Reich, cartooned as campus guru Charlie Green. As a result, some papers run Doonesbury on the editorial page. 
Double standard seen 
"Editors have a fantastic double standard as to what they print on the front page and what they'll allow in the comics," Mr. Trudeau commented. "I do feel that my r strip should have some depth if it is to 
He 'QUickly adds, however, "I respect all· justify itself, and I try to use the campus 
my characters. I don't favor one over 
another. In Mark, Mike and B.D., l have a complete political and sociological spec­trum, a triad of different and polarized ways of dealing with life." 
Beliefs worth respecting 
"I am as sympathetic to the hardhat in 
B.D. as I am to the radical in Mark. Each believes in his way of life as strongly as the other. This is·worth respecting." 
Once labeled a quasi-underground comic strip. Doonesbury is actually more of a sophisticated, issue-oriented Peanuts, but it often employs an Archie Bunker tongue-in­cheek jab at current issues and prejudices .. 
seeting as a microcosm of society as a 
whole." 

Part of the appealing novelty about Doonesbury is, as Mr. Trudeau explained. that his strip" are Feifferian "perceptions of the humar,-.,ndition."' rather than g:1gs Readers are able to identify witb tl · situation as well as laugh. 
Mr. Trudeau only works part of th£ tirr . 
on the strip. Full-time graduate studies i1 graphics at Yale's School of Design and <~ budding private business venture · professional art commune call<. Calligraph) with friends are keeping hJ busy. In any spare time, there's frisbt table hockey, and a screenplay he's wo ith about kids, te tentatively titled "Pcan, Butter and Jelly." 
--. ·­


the observer Wednesday, September 13, 1972
8 

Nader Raiders use NO as HO 
Rev. Timothy A. Meehan of the Archdiocese of Hartford, Conn., and Sister Jacqueline Jelley, S.H.C.J., currently on the Ralph Nader Congress Project staff, Washington, D.C., will conduct a national survey of the urban ministry with administrative headquarters at Notre Dame. 
Father Meehan is now coor­dinator of the Office of Urban Affairs in his archdiocese as well as archdiocesan technician for Connedicut Interfaith Housing. Sister .Jacqueline is coordinator of field research for the Nader group. 
Thc> survey, which is part of the program of the National Catholic Committee on Urban Ministry tCCUM l, will be supervised by Msgr. .John J. Egan, a fellow in pastoral theology and urban 
Hecht to speak tonight in Library 

Anthony Hecht, Dean Professor 
of Hhetoric and Poetry atColumbia 
University will lecture tonight at 
R:OO in the Library Auditorium. 
Hecht will speak on the "Little­
known facts in the sex life of 
Harriet Beecher Stowe." 

A reading of selected poems will 
follow on Thursday at 1:30 again in 
the Library Auditorium. 

Hecht received the 1968 Pulitzer 
Prize for his third book of poetry, 
"The liard Hours." He recently 
was named a Fellow of the 
American Academy of poets, and 
in March, 1970, was elected to the 
National Institute of Arts and 
Letters, the congressionally 
chartered honor society for the 
arts. 

His publications include "A 
Summonin of Stones," "The Seven 
Deadly Sins," ""A Bestiary," and 
'Jiggery-Pokery: A Compendium 
of Double Dactyls" (with John 
J{ollander). · studies at Notre Dame. Funding for the program has come chiefly from the Raskob Foundation of Delaware and the Schubert Foundation of Cleveland. 
"The survey is part of an overall CCUM program to mobilize and train religious personnel for ef­fective ministry and to assist in the development of a sound theology for pastoral ministry in seminaries and novitiates," Msgr. Egan said. 
Father Meehan has been active in urban ministry and social action for more than 10 years. He par­ticipated in the civil rights march in Washington in 1963 and 1968, and in the Selma, Ala., march in 1965. He was formerly chairman of the board of commissioners of the New Haven Housing Authority, and a member of the board of directors 
of Community Progress In­

corporated of the New Haven. In 1968 he was selected by the New Haven Junior Chamber of Com­merce as the "Young Man of the Year", and in that year received the state Jaycees' "Outstanding Young Man Award." 
Sister Jacqueline Jelley, originally stationed in California, was for 15 years a teacher and an administrator in both elementary and secondary schools. She served as an educational consultant to the international consulting firm of Arthur D. Little, Inc. of Cam­bridge, Mass. Later, she became the special assistant to New York City Council President Sanford Garelick, acting as liason to various community groups and · institutional boards of directors. She has been on the Nader staff since 1971 
WANT A JOB? 
·-as a multilith operator on A-M 1250W and 1850 presses. Must have some experience. Work begins immediately. Good chance for ad­vancement. Pay is good and fringe benefits are great. 
Call Paul--283-7047 Mon thru Fri 1-5 or come in 
Campus Press Bsmt, LaFortune Student Center 
Sophotnore Literary Festival 
Positions are now open for committee chairman and staff of the Sophomore Literary Festival Council. . Any Notre Dame or St. Mary's sophomores interested in helping, should pick should pick up applications by Friday, Sept. 15th 
in 317 Morrissey or 414 Keenan. 
phone: 3578 or 3372 
StudentGovernment Announces First annual 
FALL ELECTION EXTRAVAGANZA 
Be the first in your section to: 
make new friends 
meet an acting vice-pres. 
feel important 
6 CHANCES TO WIN 
How to Enter: clip off proof of purchase seal on a nickel bag of Wheaties, fill out name and turn into Student Government office on or before Sept. 15 
L 
Candidates with petitions need not apply. 
A 3x5 card may be submitted in lieu of Wheaties seal.
I 
I 
I I 
I 
Wednesday, September 13, 1972 the observer 
9 
ActivitiesNight set tonight-r-=-=------------. 

in LaFortune at 7:00 p.m. 

Where the rooms are 
1. 
International Students room 

2. 
Rathskellar 

3. 
South wing-ground floor 

4. 
South lounge 

5. 
Main lounge 

6. 
T.V. lounge 

7. 
Tom Dooley room 

8. 
Caron court 

9. 
Amphitheatre 

10. 
Forensic room 



t 
11. North lounge 12. 1\Aain ballroom 
13. 
South lounge 

14. 
Meeting room 



N 
15. Meeting room 
16. 
Student Government 

17. 
Fiesta lounge 

18. 
Observer office 

19. 
Cabinet offices 

20. 
Dome 21-24. Student Union 


25. Scholastic Academic Commission (21) AIAA(6) AIESEC(2) 


.--------­

1 




2Jip I=LOOR .3RP FLOOR 
\ 
. . • lor what you want to do this year 
Academic Commission 21 LaCrosse Club 17 AIAA 6 Lithuanian Club 2 AIESEC 2 Logan Center II American Chemical Society 6 1\Aanagement Club 6 Amateur Radio& MANASA 13 
Communications 10 
1\Aath Club 6 
Angel FJig ht 4 Neighborhood Study Help IS APO 6 New Jersey Club 2 Arnold Air Society 4 Observer 18 Baltic Club 2 Omicron Delta Epsilon 6 Big Brothers 7 Pan American Club 2 Big Sisters 7 Pit Club 2 BOAC 2 Pre-Law Club 6 CAC 22 Pre Med Club 6 Campus Ministry NO 8 . Prison Teachers 12 Campus Ministry SMC 8 Project Star 12 Celtic Club s St. Stephen's Center 12 Chess Club 10 Republicans for Percy 3 Chicago Club 2 Red Cross Blood Drive 12 CILA 14 Research and Develop. 19 Cleveland Club 2 Rowing Club 17 College Republicans 3 Rugby Club 17 Council for the Mentally Retarted Sailing Club 17 Jl Scholastic 25 
Day Care 'Center 12 Social Commission 22 Debate 5 Sister 1\Aarita's Day School 12 Detroit Club 2 Ski Club 17 Dome '73 20 Speech and Drama 5 Farley Cyclers 17 Student Government 16 Farley Striders 17 Student Managers 17 Fencing Club 17 Student Union 24 
FLAC 12 
Students for McGovern-Shriver 3 Flying Irish 17 Technical Review 6 Glee Club 5 Travel Bureau (1st Head Start 9 Bank Travel on Campus 2 INPIRG 19 Upward Bound 12 International Students I Volunteer Service International Stud. Leadership for the aged 12 
lnstlt. 4 Volunteer Service Bureau 12 Juvenile Probation Officers 12 WSND 5 · ·Karate 17 Young Voters for the Kinetoscope 10 President 3 
Naturalness is the Key To Your Hair Style 

FREE COCKTAILS ON EVERY BUS? 
No, but again this year Greyhound's non-stop scenicruiser service is the fastest, most convenient way to an.d from 
Chicago. Every Friday at 
3:55 the Notre Dame Special 
goes directly from the circle with two returns on Sunday. 

Call Tom Boyer, 234-8259 
For Information and return schedule 
SPECIAL NOTICE TO ALL STUDENTS 
All Clubs, Service Organizations, Political Groups, Societies, and Activities including all forms of student media are requested to forward to the Ombudsman in care of Student Government an up-to­date listing of the names and local phone 
•

numbers of those in charge, as well as any business phone number that such a 
group might have. This request applies in particular to large organizations such as Student Union and the Hall Presidents' Council. The information must be in to Student Government by Friday Sep­tember 15, if your respective group is to be registered in the official listing. If it is easier to phone in the information, please do so, but only between 3 PM-5PM Monday thru Friday at 7638. Your co­operation in compiling the requested information will be greatly appreciated, and hopefully, will better enable the Office of the Ombudsman to assist in­terested parties in finding that which they seek. If there are any questions about what information is being sought or wby it is being gathered, please call 7668. Finally, if anyone is interested in joining the Ombudsman Staff, they are asked to apply at the Student Government Office which is located on the 3rd floor of the LaFortune Student Center. 
HELP IS NEEDED! 

_____~_j 


• 
10 the observer Wednesday, September 13, 1972 
New director invites prospective students 
RE-ELECT 
SMC writing program open 
by Maria Gallagher St. Mary's Editor 

The writing program at St. Mary's is definitely alive and kicking, according to Dominick Boscoe, new director. 
Since the latest date to add an SMC course has been extended to September 15, Boscoe invites all Notre Dame and St. Mary's students to register for any of the three writing courses being offered this semester: fiction writing, verse writing, and expository writing. 
Roscoe, who comes to St. Mary's this year from the writer's workshop of the University of Iowa, plans to "invigorate" the program this year by keeping its form flexible and emphasizing creativity in the product of every student. 
"A writing course enables a student to gain expertise and confidence in his work," he commented. "It teaches the student how to make his writing 'come alive'-to do this, he must write with determination and conviction." 
Boscoe also stressed the power 
wielded by the written word, and 
asserted that its power is not dead, 
as many claim. 

"There are ideas which can be 
conveyed by the written word 
which cannot be as effectively 
expressed through the media, and 
vice versa," he asserted. 

The expository course's goal, 
says Boscoe, is to "cultivate good 
writing of any kind, on any sub­
ject." Two books will be used: a 
writer's anthology, and a text 
dealing with the writer's problems. 
In the verse and fiction writing 
courses, Boscoe noted the im­
portance of workshop format. He 
also called attention to reading 
ability as one of a writer's most 
rent a refrigerator 
LAST CHANCE TO ORDER! 
for the Wbole year I 
The perfect solution for late night snacks, study breaks, and even a whole meal . . . save money . • • no more vending machines to gobble up your funds . . . save time . . . it's right in your own room . . . rent one for the whole year for only pennies per day . . . even less . . . when cost is split with your roommate ... approved by the university for in-room use . . . -compact . . . li&htweight . . . handsome walnut exterior has a beautiful furniture appearance . . . doubles as a table ..• quick freezing ... can freeze up a new tray of large size ice cubes in only 45 minutes ... holds over 36 cans of canned drinks ... if unit fails call representative for immediate replacement 
free pick up and delivery included in rental fee ... limited supply -call now to reserve your unit today! 
valuable assets. Not only will this expose him to a varjety of styles, but give him some background from which to draw. 
"I assigned Sterne's TrTristram Shandy to show the students what they could get away with, and give them an idea of what 'modern' is, " Boscoe said. 
The verse and fiction courses will be studying material from all periods. Sylvia Plath's autobiographical work The Bell Jar will be required for both. 
"Plath was chosen for two reasons: not only is her work an example of good literature, but her contribution as a woman will be of particular interest to the class." Boscoe added that he hoped to cover several other women writers as well. 
At the present time, twenty-five are enrolled in the expository 
Solie kicks off new lecture series 
A noted German theologian, Dr. Dorothee Solie, will present the first talk in the 1972-1973 Distinguished Lecture Series of the Department of Theology at Notre Dame at 3:30 p.m. Friday in the auditorium of the Memorial Library. 
Dr. Solie, a participant in a recent Los Angeles conference, "Religion and Hunanization of Man," will discuss "The Role of Political Theology" in her Notre Dame talk which is open to the public without charge. 
The Cologne theologian is the author of "Christ the ' Representative,"The Truth is Concrete," "'Beyond Mere Obedience" and "The Right of Man To Be Something other." 

course, eight in fiction writing, and five in verse writing. Boscoe called classes of this size "too good to be true," but admitted "we could use a few more." 
Boscoe estimates that "about a dozen" students have formally declared a writing major at St. Mary's. This major requires 12 credit hours in upper-division English literature, and 12 hours of writing courses. 1 
At the present time, the literature courses which must be taken are specified and encompass a wide range of callasses including Shakespeare, Chaucer, and the Neoclassical and Romantic movements. However, Boscoe said that these would have to be reviewed to better serve the students' needs. 
Boscoe concluded that the 
writing major, or some writing 
courses, would be a helpful 
prerequisite to careers in jour­
nalism, law, teaching, and, of 
course, freelance writing. 
"A skilled student can write his 
way into any major grad school," 
he feels. 
ATTENTION ARTS & LETTERS 
Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors. Applications for A&L 
COLLEGE COUNCIL SEATS 
and one 

UNIVERSITY ACADEMIC 
COUNCIL SEAT 
are now be~ng accepted. Student are asked to write a brief statement-­o~e typewritten page or less--on why they are interested in serving in either (or both) positions. Include address and phone number All statements must be submitted to the · 
OEAN'S OFFICE ROOM 137 O'SHAUGHNESSEl' NO LATER THAN FRIDAY SEPT. 15, 4:30 
(interviews will then be arranged.) 
THE PRESIDENT 
MEETING ND-SMC Young Voters to Re-elect the President 7:30 123 NIEUWLAND, THURS., SEPT. 14 

says 
When it comes to pianos. we will do just about anything. If we can't do it. we will try to find someone who does. 
Call me now for an appointment 674-9335 
''Piano Pete" 
Osceola, Indiana 
Quality Tuning and Repairing 
CDLD DRINKS ICI CUBES SllCIS 

IIDIT IN !DUB IDDI ! 
call now 
FDI FBBB DBLIVBB! 
283-1553 
or 
283-7757 
only $22.50 per semester (based upon yearly rates) 
sponsored by ALPHA PHI OMEGA & THE STUDENT UNION OF NOTRE DAME Box 639 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
APO profits will be donated to Sister Marita Day School 
.. 




l J 
Wednesday, September 13, 1972 
the observer 1 1 
~
ND ruggers 3-1 • 1
In early games 
... 


The Labor Day weekend meant a 
Pallardy return, as do juniors Ed The ruggers practice daily return to du Lac for most Notre O'Connell, Bob Olson, Dan Lee, behind Stepan Center, and will 
I
Dame students, but it meant a road Tom Masenga, and Henry Clarke. welcome any new tryouts. opener for the Irish rugby team. The Irish ruggers participated in The backs are improved over 
the Windsor iBorderers' Tour­last year and will be led by back 
Two gridders
nament in Windsor, Canada. The captainHerbGiorgio. The return of team was invited to the tour­John Greving and the shift of Don nament over the summer, and was Greive to outside center will add 
suspended
able to work in only a few regular more scoring punch to the Irish 
attack.
practices before travelling to Canada. 
Two Notre Dame football 
Even with this little preparation, Jeff Wornimont is holding down players remained suspended while 
though, the Irish posted a the fullback position, but most of others were reinstated
three respectable 3-1 record in the the other spots are still open. Joe Tuesday in the aftermath of a rules 

tourney and finished in a tie for DeLois, Ed Fishburne, and Dave violation last weekend. fourth place. Simpson are trying for the serum Senior linebackers Jim 
The tournament consisted of 15 half slots, while Pat Krueger, Mike Musuraca and Pat Me Graw did teams. Each squad played three Reagan, and Fred Manley are not dress for practice either games on Saturday and then a competing for the fly half position. Monday or Tuesday after beingfourth on Sunday morning. The Hard-running Herb Giorgio and the Irish ruggers will be in action this suspended for violating a trainingfour teams with the best records weekend in Cleveland. rule. ·
The ruggers begin their regular
advanced to the finals on Sunday downpour and the wet ball bin­The showing in the tournament season this Saturday against the Seniors Darryll Dewan, Joe afternoon. dered the small but faster Irish and a core of experienced retur­Cleveland Blues in Cleveland with Hagger and Jim O'Malley had 
Central Indiana set the pace for squad. nees leave the Irish ruggers with "A". "B", and "C" games. The also been suspended but the trio the tourney by posting a perfect 4-0 Behind 3-0 at the half, Notre bright hopes for the upcoming schedule is highlighted by games was back in uniform Tuesday.record, while the Chicago Lion~-Dame rallied on a long run by season. Last spring's serum with traditional foes Palmer, Coach Ara Parseghian said that and Cleveland Blues tied for Dave Simpson. The conversion returns intact and is led by co­Michigan, John Carroll, and the the length of Musuraca 's and second with 3-0-1 marks. In fourth insured the Irish victory. captain Joe Hafner. Seniors Doug Chicago Lions. Newcomers will McGraw's suspensions was place were the Irish and. the ND met Central Indiana in Amego, Jim Carr, and Lee include Kentucky and Evansville. "pending decision" 
University of Michigan with 3-1 Saturday's third game. The slates. Hoosiers were composed of A tournament ruling advanced players from Purdue, Indiana, the 
SC, Oklahoma top the polls
Michigan to the finals because they Indy Reds, Evansville, and Fort scored one more try than the Irish. Wayne. The Irish were generally Southern Cal and Oklahoma came up with 266 points. Colorado 1972 season a week from Saturday
Notre Dame's first opponent on outweighed and this disadvantage-moved into the number one spot in was rated third· and Ohio State at Northwestern, were relegated to Saturday was a team from -along with wet and sloppy con-the wire service polls this week, fourth. the 14th spot in both polls, failing to Blackrock, Ontario, and the Irish ditions--led to their downfall. The following Nebraska's loss to The Irish, who will open their receive any first place votes. overwhelmed the Canadians, 25-3. Irish could never use their overall UCLA, while Notre Dame was 
Af' Ratings UPI Ratings

Don Greive opened the scoring for quickness and speed and were ranked 14th. 
the Irish with a try and Ed beaten , 15_0 _ 1. Southern Cal (13). (1·0) 779 1. Oklahoma (11-0). . .(11) 27Jl
The Associated Press gave the 2. Colorado (12).. . .... (1-0) 769 2. Southern Cal (1·0). (11) 266
II d

O'Connell successfu Y converte The Irish kept their hopes for the Trojans 779 points and 13 first place 3. Oh1o state (5) ... (0-0) no 3. colorado (1·0).. (6) 264 
to give ND a 6-0 lead. A try by finals alive on Sunday when they . h d f 4. Oklahoma (12).. . . (11-0) 694 4. Ohio State (().0).. .(4) 192 
votes, JUSt a ea o Co1orado, 5 AI ba (I) (I 0) 598 5 AI b a (I o) (2) 178
Doug Amego and conversion and defeated a much larger team from · a rna · · : (~O) 7 · a am · · · 
k. k b O'C II which picked up 769 points and 12 6. Penn State (1). 4 3 6. Tennessee (1-0)... . ..160
I
pena ty IC s Y onne gave Milwaukee, 14-0. Playing before a first place ballots. Oklahoma also 7. Tennessee (I) . . . . . . (1·0) 426 7. Penn State (().0).... .154 the Irish a 15-0 halftime lead and it hostile crowd, the Irish were slow 8. UCLA (4). . .. (1·0) 415 8. Louisiana State (().0) 73 was downhill from there. at the start but scored on a try by received 12 votes for the top spot 9. Louisiana State. . .. (().0) 375 9. Nebraska (O·Il . . .b9 but only totaled 694 points, 16 less 10. Nebraska (I). . . (().\) 344 10 Michigan f().O).. . .. 67Second half trys by Jim Carr and Tom Masenga. After missing two than: third place Ohio State. u. Michigan ...(().0) 199 11. UCLA (1-0)........ (I) 66 Pat Krueger and a third con-earlier penalty kicks and a con-12. washington( I). . . . (I·O) 186 12. Arizona Statt> (().0) 40 version by O'Connell sealed the version,O'Connellfoundtherange Oklahoma was ranked first by l~:~~~~~n~;~!e: -~~~~:~; l~:~:;::b~~e·(~i-~ victory for the Irish. with a penalty kick and gave ND a the United Press International, 15. Texas.... . . (().0) !32 15. washington (I-ll) . 22 In the second game Notre Dame 7-0 halftime lead. ·however, garnering 11 first place 16. Georgia.. (().0) 81 16. Florida State (1-0)... 7 t d ""0 · t El 17 Aritansas (0·1) 79 17. (Tie)lowa State (().0) 6
faced the C eveland Greys and had I A second half try by Greive and vo es an ~· pom s. even 18_ Purdue . . . (().O) 55 (Tie) Georgia (O·O) 6 
to come from behind to win 6-3. another boot by O'Connell iced the selectors also tabbed Southern Cal l9 Missis.,ippL (O-O) 43 19. Purdue (().0). 6 
The game was played in a steady victory for Notre Dame. as number one but the Trojans only 211 Florida State (I-ll) 40 20. Auburn (().~) 4 
The Football Season Is About 
·"' To Kickoff Make Sure You're On 
\ 

The Receiving End 
of 
.. 

IRISH SPORTS WEEKLY 
Weekly features include: * * *Reports of all Irish varsity and club spor_~s .. ***Stories about current Irish
JUST 15c PER ISSUE! 
stars and alumni greats or ***Columns by top athletes in 
by Subscription: h f tli · t ..
I 1 semester -$LSO on campus/ $3.00 by mail * * * oc:=izz:s. c:n~~:~r spor s I ~l~~ I year -$2.75 on campus/ $6.00 by mail * * *Extensive Interhall coverage]( Delivered to your door 

First issue available September 21 
ill' . . .. 
L~.-~-·i:"'..::o»>.;··:-:·········...·.·······~n·i:"'HJ.~·~·····..~····,·····"~-=·"····.·.-.····........................ Published by The Observer ~jjj
..~ •• Jl!"" .. ..-: W.->N.,-.-.-.·.····~ .. -·· ~;.-..'J!•.il!•. ~».If!-:-:-.-.-:•• ••.-.•="ii'··X·,-.-..:•:il!-:•.•."!-:i/'.i'.<.e:<-:·:ii!•!•!•:*.!:!:!:!:!:!:!:!'!-:!:!:::::::::::::::::::::::::~::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:!:!~'S:!i-!!'$'S:!$:!~!'Zl;':J!t:!!!~:WAIS:!'$;:::::::-;:?;!Yb..!?!§!3::~:;:;::::::::::'S:::;:;:::::~iJiZ.:):.!:!:)S$:!:~:·.· 

• 
Wednesday, September 13, 1972
the observer

12 
Callner brothers appointed to NO YVP 
St. Joseph County Chairman of Young Voters for the President <YVP> and a member of the In­diana State Steering Committee of YVP, Andrew Nickle, announced today the appointment of Bruce and Jan Callner as Co-Chairman of the newly formed Notre Dame-St. Mary's Division of YVP. 
Nickle expressed the reason for the formation of the Notre Dame­St. Mary's Division stating, "We have a potential of over 8,000 voters on the two campuses. A lov­calized division of YVPwill insure that these students have the op­portunity to work for the President and that all students obtain the information needed to make an effective and meaningful decision this fall." 
Brice Callner outlined the

.. 
programs of the Notre Dame-St. ary's YVPwhich will contain voter registration drives, fund raising activities, rallies, and "with cooperation, there is the possibility of a series of debates on the major issues of this campaign." 
Jan Callner added, "Every registered student voter becomes an important participant in the election of the President. In order to make a meaningful choice between candidates each voter should know the candidates' ob­jectives, and the consewquences of these plans. Our job will be to present the President's stand on 
Wilson talks in Law Building 
(continued from page 3) 
more of a service to the average citizen. 
In the candidate's opinion the attorney general's office is "next to the governor's, perhaps the most powerful office in the state." No other office has the respon­sibility of touching more people in more agencies in the state than the attorney general's. He also stated that the role of the attorney general could be crucial for making a fine administration and could make a difference for a finer state government. 
' 

the issues to enable the students to make a knowledgable cooice." 
Bruce Callner is presnetly a second year layw student at Notre Dame. After graduating from Western Michigan University in 1970, he taught psychology as a graduate student for one year before entering lwaw scjpp;' Bruce has previously worked on the campaigns of Governor William G. Milliken of Michigan and otherRepublicans of the St. Joseph County, Michigan area. 
Jan Callner is currently a Clinical 'Counselor at the St. Joseph Mental Health Clinic nin South Bend. Jan graduated from Western Michigan University in 1971 with a masters degree in couseling. 
Andrew Nickle is a second year law student at Notre Dame, active 
For Snle: Mnrtin D 12 20 guitar. Cilll Tom. 233 7931' 
NOTICES 
2.50 per flour. If you nre at least a Junior, 11avc all A's in English, ,1nd would like to do part time <'ditinq (less than 10 hours per w<•ck 1 submit credentials 
Ornnscript, experience,  etc.)  &  
phone  number  immediately  to  
P.O.  Box 77, Notre Dnme.  

Europe nnd back for S190! How riln you nlford to stay home? Call Clilrk, 283 8810. 
Thursday Celebrators: Bring your own blankets and mosquito repellant to the South Quad. 
Time Life Sports Illustrated at tile lowest student rates. 283-8323! 
Morrissey Loan Fund now open to ND students. Borrow up to $150. 
11:15 12:15 Monday thru Friday. Basement of La Fortune. 
Willi's Discount, 738'' South Michiqan. Small doors and shelving, qood for desk tops. 289­3380. 
LOST 
Lost: Gold wire rim glasses in black case on N D campus. Call 233 3893. Reward. 
Lost: Blue wallet 9-9 72. Contains rickets, I D ran 't alford the loss!! Please cnll Kathi 4342. 
Lost: G.M. car keys. If found call Pnul 7961. Reword! 
Lost: set of keys with 314 on them. Cnll 1180. 
Lost: black leather handbag on September 5 on ND campus. Contact S. Fitzmyer; 4381. Rl.'ward. 
Lost: twisted qold loop r.-nrring. 
Call 8161. 

FOR RENT 
Furnished House 4 bedrooms, tub & Shower, 4, 5, or 6 men. S45 per month. 1315 Lincoln Way West 233 5282. 
Rooms for rent, cheap. 233-1329. 
PERSONALS 
Hey Shavacito when ilre ya ·roming home? I love you. 
Got the Hunqries? Free delivery of McDonald's hamburgers! Call Ronald 8838. 
W~rds 1da 2da 3d a 4da 5da 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 
.. 
We have em... 
DOUBLEKNIT FLARES 
These are the great ones ... tailored diagonal weave Fortrel polyester doubleknit to resist wrinkles and dry cleaners; they're machine wawash and dry! solid colors. 
STOP IN... 

See our all new selections of university-styled apparel; we have It all together. speed bike, no purchase needed, just register 
The ex,clusive Campus 
Shop way to buy... 

pay one-third in January, one-third in February, one-third in March. No Interest or carrying charges added . 
pleasant surroundings. Ex­perience with children preferred. c,111 234-0667 evenings. 
Needed: female roomate -close to campus -$55 mo. -233-8622. 
Need tickets for Purdue. Call Walt, 6804. 
Need motorcycle. Marty 3316. 
Help! I desperately need 1-4 gen. ild. tix for Purdue game. Name your price. Call Mike 6984. 
Need Purdue tickets, general admission or student. Call Frank 
8825 or  Ed 8463.  
Desperately  need  general  ad­ 
mission  or  student  tickets  for  
Purdue.  Call 6701.  

Need Purdue tix. Will pay your price. Call 7819, 7812, or 7471. 
FOR SALE 
2 beds mattress, box springs, head boards. $25 each or best offer. Call 272-2977. 
Panasonic am-fm stereo radio­cassette deck. Input for turn­table. Walnut cabinet and speakers. ! 100. Smith -Corona manual typewriter, deluxe model, $50 (orginally $125.) VIVITAR 28 mm F2.5 wide angle lens with Nikon mount. $40. 233-3581. 
STEREO: Powerful tuner cassette amp. Record direct!~ from AM, FM, BSR turntable (incl. l Headphones with ex­tension. Call 1477. 
For Sale: Couches $10-30. Chairs $3-7.50. Call Mrs. Cooper 272-3004. Free delivery to campus. Open 
Sunday. 

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
SENIORS AND GRADUATE STUDENTS Employer interviews biegin October 12.... Think about the future now.... Careers .... Jobs .... Pick up Palacement Bureau Registration forms, Faculty Rating Scales and other placement marerials at Room 222, Main Building .... Register as early as possible ... It's important that you register before that date in order to take full advantage of services and in­terviews. 
You may elect to participate in a national computer program to match your qualifications with employer job oppu­ortunlties .... It will help you pre-select employers to in­terview .... Notre Dame is one of just 157 participating schools .... No charge .... Program is called GRAD I I .... Ask for GRAD I I information and computer forms when you register. 
PLACEMENT NIGHTS Arts and Letters and Wednesday, Septmeber20 Business Administration Engineering Auditorium-7:00 
p.m. 

Engineering and Thursday, September 21 
Science Engineering Auditorlum-7: p.m. 
For seniors and graduate students only. 
Placement Bureau will offer career counseling, assistance on job selection, employers, resume writing, interviewing. 
Don't delay .... Prepare .... Register now.... Attend Placement 
Nights. Main B u i I d ing R. D. ~iil~!c~~~ 
WANTED 
Need 2-4 ildult Purdue tickets. Will pay $10 each. Call Tom 1687. 
Riders wanted to Ball State this weekend. Call Tom 1460 
Wilnted: four Purdue fix -must be together. Call John 8810. 
3 off -campus students seek 4th ilousemate. Private bedroom. 2 blocks past Corby's. Call 232-3560. 
Need ride to Pittsburgh. Friday, September 15. Call Suzy 8031. 
Wanted: Houseparents. A married couple to live in home for qirls. Only requirement is to help predelinquents. A team ap­proach. many supportive people ilround you. Free room and board (including dishes. linens, etc.) plus $100 per month. Weekends off-Vacinity of campus. 233-9491. 
Wanted: To buy, borrow, or rent a flexible 35 mm single reflex camera. Call John 8578. 
Need ride to Racine, Wis. Friday Sept. 15. Call Mark 3341. 
Bilbysitter wanted, male or lemille on Tuesdays 9-11 a.m. for 12 111onth old girl. Good pay, 

in~~ year's campaign. Nickle, in addition to his present positions, is a former member of Peresident Nixon's White House staff. 
Young Voters for the President is a division of the CorrutJ.ittee to re­elect the President and operates outside the auspices of the Republican Party, Anyone, In­dependents, Democrats, or Republicans through the age of 30 are welcome to join this division. The sole purpose of the organization is to re-elect President Nixon for a second successful term. 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's Division of YVP will hold their first organizational meeting in the Nieuwland Science Hall on the Notre Dame Campus at 7:30p.m. in room 123 on Thursday, Sept­meber 14, 1972. All interested persons are invited to attend . For Bruce or Jan Callner at 287-4021 further information. contact either after 6 p.m. any evening. 
THE AMERICAN SCENE CULTURAL SERIES 
Formal Registration for Education 373, or HU SE 373. 

7:30 p.m. Carrol Hall, Madeleva. Wednesday, September 13. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 

.... 






