-----------------·------------~--~-----·---------·­

On The Inside 
Gory juvenile officer speaks ... page 3 No progress in Paris talks ... page 7 
Voll VII No. 54 
by Andy Schilling Staff Reporter 
An informed source at the University Housing 
Office said yesterday that the announcement of 
next year's women's dorms would be for­
thcom.ing before Christmas. 
No other administration officials were 
available for comment on the matter yesterday. 
In a related event, Roger Burrell and David 
Fromm, last year's presidents of Badin and 
Walsh halls have addressed a letter to Fr. James 
Burrtchaell, University Provost, in which they 
('Xplain why they believe the University should 
announce the next co-ed ca dorm on campus "as 
soon as possible." 

'detrimental to morale' 
Burrell and Fromm wrote the letter in 
response to a·statement which Burtchaell made 
while speaking at Howard Hall. Burtchaell 
l.'splained that the University would not an­
nounce the next women's dorm until late in the 
second semester because such an announcement 
would be "detrimental to the morale of the hall 
selected." 
The two ex-presidents believe that this was not 
the case in Badin and Walsh halls last year. 
Fromm said, "The announcement was disap­
pointing, but not 'demoralizing.' If anything, the 
halls were brought closer together, since so 
many guys transferred in sections." He added, 
"Maybe there was something special about 
Badin and Walsh. But I like to think there's the 
same spirit in all the other dorms on campus.'' 
The letter explains that there is no reason to withhold the name of the next female dorm for 
morale reasons, since no such problem existed 
last year. 

'no case' 
"They just don't have a case," commented 
Burrell. '"Demoralization' is a weak 

argument.'" 
The pair said that an early announcement 
would give the present residents time to seek 

other housing, whether on or off~ampus, while 
hall clerks and mailmen would have the time to 
seek other employment. 
Fromm explained that "It could also be rough 

on the RA's. This problem was non-existent last 
year, due to the small number of returning RA's. 
Burrell and Fromm concluded their letter 

urging Burtchaell to announce the dorm "as soon 
as possible," saying, "The only damaging aspect 
of such an announcement is its delay.'' 
Burtchaell was contacted about his reaction to 

rhe letter, but refused to make any comment. He 
also refused to say whether the announcement 
would be made in the near future, or late next 
semester. 

Dilvid Fromm, ex-Walsh Hall President, "I w;s dihppolnted In Fr. Burtchaell." 

.: 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Thursday, November 30, 1972 

by Mike Baum Staff Reporter 

Criticizing the "profound suspicion and mistrust of our minds" in this society, Dr. R.D. Laing last night called for an easier,less restricted approach to "states of mind." 
Speaking conversationally from a chair on the stage of Washington Hall, the British psychiatrist and author explained his views of the healthy mind in modern society to a capacity crowd. 
Using metaphors ranging from Plato's Republic to mathematical idiom, Laing delineated several ways in which people today view themselves relative to the world. He observed that some people can impose a certain "state of mind" or framework, such o.s a political ideology, a religion, or a scientific viewpoint, upon their experience to give it order and meaning within the framework. 
Laing also remarked upon the tendency to view existence in time and space, such as the greneral conception that progressing favourably in life is "a definite forward movement". He added to this ideas of m~ving "in" towards oneself, "out" towards society, bemg "compressed" by responsibilities and social pressures "from all sides" or being "depressed from above " by wimilar pressures. 
Laing suggested that we all have similar "non­verbal experiences" which can be expressed as motion into, out of, and other modes of being. He then asked, "How can we get into the actual texture of this tapestry we feel to be real-to be living in?" 
Laing attempted to answer his question indirectly from several angles. 
He characterized the society of Rurope and North America as placing "enormous emphasis" on "doing'". "I suppose it consists of money, having money, what it can buy .... having influence on other people's lives," Laing reflected. 
He suggested that, "By the very fact of doing something, one proves to oneself that one was right in doing so because one's done it.'' 
From, perhaps, another viepoint, Laing observed that there has been in Westerrn society a sort of struggle between contrary "states of mind". Through a process of psychologicval witch-hunts, one particular state of mind has come to be the "norm", all others needing "treatment". 
"Where are our distinctions between sanity and madness?" Laing asked. "We take refuge in a state of mind which our society holds that if you're in that state of mind you don't have to wotry about your state of mind whatever else you have to worry about." 
"If it becomes frayed around the edges, you don't really know what to do because in WEurope and America we have become out of touch with other states 
of minds."  
Switching  groung  again,  Laing  discussed  the  
problems of epistomology.  know ledge  generally  raised  in  

"How do we know the world is real or unreal?" Laing asked. He cited somewhat obscure philosophies that held that in this existence we are all dead, not alive, suggestions tahat all "reality" is actually illusion, smacking of Bishop Berkeley, and the famous allegory of the Cave, from Plato's Republic. 
"We learn this in philosophy course, Plato is honored and all, but not many people sweat it out, ... actually loose sleep over it and allow themselves to be suffesed by the abyss that is opened out ther," Laing relflected. 
(eoDliDaed oa ,...I) 

Roger Burrell, ex-Badin Hall president, "They just don't have a case. Demoralization is a weak argument." 
Fromm said, "I was disappointed in Fr. Burtchaell. He could've talked to the hall rectors or presidents. He just assumed things would go downhill, which I think is a bad assumption." 
Burrell said there were ill feelings last year, because some students believed Badin was chosen as a women's dorm in order to "break up rhe lack of discipline" in the hall. "Guys aren't reluctant to go," he said. "But the Administration 
should have faith in the students, and explain why their hall was picked, whether due to the hall's location~ size, security or capacity.'' 
Burrell concluded, "The least the University can do is let the students stay on campus if they want. Give the student a room--give the student a break." 

text of letter 
Dear Father Burtchaell: 

Recently, while speaking in Howard Hall, you said that the dorms to be selected for female undergraduates next year would not be an­nounced until later in the second semester. The reason you gave for the delay was that such an announcement would be detrimental to the morale of the ahlls selected. 
Drawing upon our experiences as presidents of the two dorms (Badin and Walsh) that were selected last year, we must disagree with you. 
The men of Badin and Walsh were of course disappointed by the announcement but they were not wholely demoralized by it. If anything, they were drawn closer together and hall morale was bolstered. Fortunately, they were able to transfer to other halls. in sections and at least continue to enjoy the company of those to whom they were the closest. 
If the residence halls do have a morale or hall spirit (as you inferred in your statement) and if this morale is similar to that which existed in Badin and Walsh last year, thenlt should not deteriorate in the halls selected this year. 
There is therefore no reason to withold the announcement. And there are a number of positive reasons for an early announcement. 
Such would enable the present residents time to investigate other dorms and--or off-campus housing. It would give the hall clerks and mailmen of those dorms an opportunity to seek other employment for next year. It would give the hall staff members time to look for other positions. It would also give the Maintainance staff an opportunity to determine the necessary alternations to be made and to have those alterations completed by September. 
For these reasoi'1<; we urge tou to make the announcement as so.Jn as possible. The only damaging aspect of ;;vc~ "'"announcement is Its delay. 
Sincerely, 

Roger Surrell, Former President of Badin David Fromm, Former President of Walsh 
the observer Thursday, November 30, 1972
2 



·warld briefs 
((•l 1!172 Nl'w York Times 

Washington--In his first second-term cabinet appointment with clear political overtones, President Nixon nominated Peter J. Brennan to replace James D. Hodgson as Secretary of Labor. If confirmed by the SPnate, Brennan--the President of the Building and Construction Trades 'Councils in New York City--would become the first active unionist in 20 years to head the Labor Department. Though the White House announcement said Secretary Hodgson wanted to return to private life, he appeared to be a casualty of Nixon's effort to break up big labor's alliance with the Democratic party. 
Nl'W York--The Nixon administration plans to require the 531 air­ports serving commercial airlines to provide armed guards to help in! ercept potential hijackers. The new emergency measure is part of a broad anti-hijacking effort that will require the screening of every passenger by boarding-gate metal detectors, the inspection of all earry-on items and new cockpit security devices. 
Washington--The Rev. Phillip F. Berrigan will be paroled from 
Fl.'deral prison on December 20 after serving more than three years 
for his antiwar activities. Father Berrigan's first parolw request was 
turned down without explanation last year and no reason was given by 
the Justice Department in its announcement that he would be relased 
from the correctional facility in Danbury, Conn., next month. 
an campu• taday 
10:00 -4:00 blood drive, stepan center 
7:30 
Hearings, south bend tran­sportation problems, dept. of transportation, cce 

7:30 
concert, cheech and chong, morris civic auditorium, $5.00 at ihe door. 


8:00 
lecture, family and population change, dr. rubin hill, library auditorium 

8:00 
lecture, violence and non­violence: a moral iustification, iames childress, 120 hayes-healy 


7:00 urban studies, evening, 103 o'shag 
•l nd-smc 

Migration office inquires about uniting fa:milies 
ThP Office of Migration and HPfugPe Services of the United Sf ates Catholic Conference has asked the local diocesan office of Catholic Charities for assistance in seeking information on relatives of l1 .S. Citizens who might be living in Hussia or other Iron Curtain t·ountries, and who wish to be rPtmited with their families in the 
United States, according to John F. Martin. Diocesan Cirector for Catholic Charities. 
"This information is sought," PxplainPd Martin. "in view of the rPcl.'nt unprecedented movement of persons from the U.S.S.R. to Israel. and the slight easnig of !'migration restrictions from the Soviet Union." 

PPrsons in the Fort Wayne-South lknd Diocese, who have relatives in any Iron Curtain country, whom ~·ou wish to have join you here, are axked to compile the following facts: 
I l NamP, address and citizen­ship of the sponsor in the United States; 
2l NamP and address of the visa applicant: :~l Has the visa applicant applied for ;:m l.'xit permit, or in any way 
informPd the authorities that he Sta!Ps Catholic Conference is assurance has been· received that is dl.'sirous of leaving'? hoping to make a presentation on rhPr<' shall bC' little difficulty in Information on any special thp subject of freedom of obtaining the ni.'CC'ssary U.S. entry t>quity in the particular case; e.g., moYC'm<•nt to these leaders during doeummts for these people leaving rPlationship to the sponsor, 'hPir Yisit. · •hP Iron Curtain countries, once 
Religious conference in Australia 
Opportunities for students, faculty or administrators to attend rhe 40.fh International Eucharistic Congress are available to the conferl.'nce in Melbourne, Australia from February 18-25, 1973. 
IThl' Congress is an assembly of dPrgy. religous and laity which nH'l't to examine various aspects of rhp Eucharist and its revelance to eontl.'mporary problems. 

In conjunction with the Congress will l.'xhibits relating to the Congrl.'ss and the International I•:cum inical movement, art Pxhibits, film festival and eon­l'l.'rt s. 
Further information is available from Dr. Stephen Kertez, Director of the International Studies In­stitutl.'. room 1203 in the memorial library (6580), or from the 
ND press publishes essays 
America in Change, a new 
Yolume of essays published by the 
University of Notre Dame Press, is 
described by its editor as "an 
Pffort to comprehend the riddle of 
Arm•rica." I>r. Honald Weber, associate 
Scholastic not 'dropping out' 
('ontrar·y to a rl.'port in Tul'sda y's Obsl.'rvl'r the Sdwlastic does not intend to "drop out of the picture" in fuiurl.' Pditions of the Course Evaluation Booklet. Evaluation editors Joe Runde, .Jim Pauer, Time Strandrig and TPrri Phillips said yPstNday that the Scholastic Pditorial board will continue to dirPt'l the publication of the booklet assisted by a special t·oursl.' e· <~ 1 .a tion staff. 

professor of American studies, explained that he volume was originally published as the October issue of the Review of Politics, and is the result of a conference of Notre Dame faculty held in April, 1972. 
O\·er 15 essays by faculty in the dl.'partments of sociology, psychology. history, theology, English. l.'conomics and others Pxam in I.' change in society, r<'ligion and philosophy, science and fl.'chnology, and arts and the nwdia. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the l'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchesed for $8 per semester ( 14 per year) from the Observer, l'·ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 






THE HAMMES 
FLAIR.j 
now 
.

1n 12 dramatic colors 
• 
tough nylon point 

• 
click seal cap 








NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
--------------------~­


Probation officer cites 
Gary juvenile problems 
BY Joseph Abell Managing Editor 
Placing juvenile offenders In so-called "reform schools" has no effect on the juvenile criminal problem, declared Curtis Robinson, a juvenile probation officer of Gary, In­diana. last night. 
"'Sending kids to boys' schools or girls' schools does nithing, · · he told 75 Notre Dame and St. Mary's students in Carroll Hall. 
But the most pressing problem is not the schools. he stressed, but the attitude of law enforcers and probation procedures. 
··we·re operating under con­cepts that are of no use because they were applicable in 1906. not in 1972... he said. 
He described the attitudes of 
the some 200 Gary juvenile 
cases he handles as ranging from 
ND students 
may exceed 
coex limit· 
Notre Dame Registratr Richard 
Sullivan said yesterday he is 
concerneed about the possibility 
that NO students might enroll for 
more SMC' courses than allowed. 
"If the 3,000 hour quota is ex­
('t>eded, we will have to reduce the • 
cot>x Pnrollment on a class­
seniority basis," said Sullivan. 
Ill.' is confident that the quota 
will not be exceeded by. either 
('ampus but is worried that such a 
possibility exists. 
"I would like to think that the 
students have confidence in the 
Advanced Registration Process in 
that they feel relatively guaran­
teed of getting the courses they 
select. We would like to avoid 
pulling students out of a course 
which they have pre-registered for 
but unfortunately ,we have no clear 
preliminary tally of the nrollment 
until the procedure is completed." 
"SC'niors may obain checkmark 
course cards beginning Thursday, 
November 30, 1972; Juniors will 
begin Friday, December 1; Soph­
mores are restricted to December 
4,5,6, and 7. The Student In­
struction Sheet for Spring ad­
\"anced Rl.'gostration contains the 
previous information and adds that 
the first step for everyone is to 
consult with his tudent advisor. 
F.conomics, Government, 
History and Philosopny majors are 
then directed to the gymnasium 
above Gate 3 in the Athletic and 
Convocation Center. English, 
Sociology and Theology majors .are 
directed to gate 4 of the ACC. All 
others should go to their depart­
ml.'nt office. 
St. Mary's students may nor­mally take only one course at NotreDame but exceptions will be made for SMC seniors receiving NO degrees requiring more than one course to complete their ma.ior. 
Fom1 50's needt>d quickly 
Notre Dame students undertake 
approximately 2500 credit hours at 
SMC' this semester. Thsi figure 
tends to increase during the spring 
seml.'seter. Should thsi exceed 
3,000 hours "retroactive im­
pll.'ml.'ntation of the quota" would 
be imposed. 
!loping to avoid this, Sullivan 
urges Notre Dame seniors and 
juniors to quickly return their 
registration forms. This would 
Pnable the registrar to compile an 
approximate tally of coex courses. 
It is very unlikely that the quota 
will be exceeded before seniors 
and juniors have registered. If 
their tally is near the quota then 
the Registrar will be able to inform 
sophmore advisors to discourage 
uhassured coex registrations. 
violently hostile to a calm feeling of justification. 
A feeling of helplessness 
··I think what makes them hostile is a feeling of help­lessness when they come up against the system. Nobody really believes them and they feel they have to strike out at something,·· Robinson offered, adding that most juvenile offenders consider an academic environment hostile. 
School teaches the juveniles things they consider irrelevant, so they avoid it entirely. Robinson explained, commenting that he agreed with them to a certain extent. 
·"You can get a lot of theor.y 
in school.·· he said, but no 
practical experience. Thus. the 
juveniles gain no real knowledge 
survival in a large city like 
Gary in school. 
How they get to probation 
Robinson described the ways 
that a juvenile would come into 
contact with his own office, the 
Probation Office, citing the two 
prime sources as the police and 
the school system. He hinted that 
the youths are easily taken into 
custody by the police. sometimes 
for comparatively insignificant 
actions. and said that the average 
sentence is worse for a juvenile 
than for an adult for the same 
crime. 
·"The main problem here is 
that there aren't enough alter­
natives for the judges to give 
to the kids ... he said. 
His own education through 
experience with the kids was a 
highlight of the talk. He told 
of a few cases he has handled 
that taught him something about 
the juveniles and himself, and 
said that the best learning method 
was through mistakes. 
·'You realize how to deal with 
the problem only when it is 
called to your attention that 
you've made a mistake," he 
said. 
In the first case, he told of a boy who had threatened a settlement house with a bomb scare and was jailed. After pressure from friends and sym­pathizers. Robinson intervened and had the boy placed on pro­bation. Tpe next night, the report reached him that the boy had killed a man. Not believing the reports, he went to the boy, who promptly said, ' 'I did kill him."' 
''That was an education. I had discovered that I was dealing with kids who kill soo 
dealing  with  kids  who  kill  
someone  and look for  a  badge  
for it,"' he said.  

A second case told of Calvin (a changed name), who Robinson When accosted by police, he said, the police report claimed Calvin ·'went into a Joe Frazier crouch·· and attacked the officers "with a long looping left hook." The police report thendescribed Calvin as "slipping" and "falling against the butt of an officer·s shotgun,·' an incident that caused Calvin injuries ''to the head, arms, hands, neck and finger­nails." 
"They did a job on Calvin," was Rovinson's only comment. 
Another case involved a boy who "enjoyed stealing a great deal,'' but would also inform on other juvenile criminals. When asked to inform on others, the boy answered that he wanted to get rid of crime and make the streets safe. When asked why, in light of his own illegal ac­tivity, the boy answered, "How can I be a successful burglar when everybody stays at home because they're too scared to go out?" 
Doesn't envy kids 

"I don't envy the kids growing up in Gary,'' Robinson stated. "They're brought up on negatives, not positives," and that results in all the crime on the juvenile level. 
The negative attitude thus fostered then forces the authorities to deal with them from "a position of power." 

Thursday, November 30, 1972 the observer 
3 
CAC presents 

BARBARELLA 
starring Jane Fonda 
Eng. Aud. Nov. 30 -Dec. 1 8-10 pm Admission $1.00 

We solve long hair problemsI 
All Services By Appointment


ahe WinJjammer . 
HAIR STYLING FOI DISCRIMINATING MEN&. BOYS
-' 
Phone 2324622

1637 
Lincoln Way W. Closed Mondays .•.. 
CAC's Cinema '73 presents: 



UGETSU 

Sat & Sun Dec. 2-3 8-10 pm Engineering Aud. $1, patrons free 
PLACEMENT BUREAU 
Main Building 
INTERVIEWS FOR WEEK OF DECEMBER 4 

Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up sched­ules are in Room 207, Main Bldg. Interview times must be selected 
•nd signed for in person. Hours are 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m. each day, except Friday. The Placement Manual gives additional informa­tion regarding interviews and procedures. 
DEC. 4 Eaton Corporation. 
BS, MS in E.E., M.E. and M.E.I.O, BBA in Acct. and Mgt. University of Chicago -Grad. School of Bus. Bachelor's -all majors. 

DEC. 4 Price Waterhouse &Co. &5 BBA in Acct. MBA with Acct. background. JD. 
DEC. 5 Christian Brothers. 
All degrees and majors for Teachers, Administrators, Retreat Masters, Religious. Carnation Company. BA and BBA. Howard, Needles, Tammen & Bergendoff. 
BS in C.E. National Bank of Detroit. All BBA and MBA, 
U.S. Steel Corporation, BS in M.E,, E.E. and Met. 

DEC. 6 Clark Equipment Company, BS in M.E. BBA in Acct. and Mkt. Jewel Home Shopping Service. BBA in Mkt. and Mgt. 
DEC. 7 Lever Brothers Company. BA, BBA and MBA. Naval Research Laboratory, Ph.D. in E.E. 
DEC, 8 Teacher Corps. Bachelor's in Lib. Arts preferred, 
l 1 
1 

1
•I 
1
,

,
, 
1 
' j 
....... 


THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd  Dan Thornton  
Editor-in-Chief  NEWS: 283-1715  Business Manager  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  
Don Ruane  BUSINESS: 283-7471  Joe Butler  
Executive Editor  Advertising Manager  

Thursday, November 30, 1972 
It's About Time 
The announcement of the next women's dorm just might be right around the comer, surprising as the statement may be. 
There were very few people associ a ted with the Badin and Walsh conversions last year wwho advocated any delay in making this year's decision. The reasons are obvious: the displaced students are entitled to more planning time in deciding where they will move than the residents of Badin and Walsh received and the complicated process of allocating on-campus and off-campus space, given the on-campus housing shortage, should not be rushed through a chaotic month in the second semester. 
Last year's decision to convert the two south quad dorms was announced one month to the day from the deadline for 
declaring  an  intention  to  move  off­ 
campus and about  a  month and  a  half  
before the beginning of room picks.  The  

least graphic description of the situation that followed is "hectic". The students from Badin and Walsh received lots of verbal support but had to fight hard to prevent getting screwed in just about every hall. 
This year's early decision should put an end to all the concentrated hassle. Vice President for Student Affairs Dr. Phillip Faccenda made the right move by 

deciding  to  announce  the  halls  before  
Christmas.  
Added Bonus  

The university quota for un­dergraduate female admissions had to be made before the dormitory question could be settled. The decision, however, has not been made public. Its anybody's guess when the formal announcement will come but the information will come in through the back door when the dorm decision is made. The number of extra beds should approximately equal the number of new female students. 
The only unfortunate circumstance surrounding the announcement is the fact that it may come too late to be published in The Observer. 
We stop publication for the first semester on December 8, one week before exams start. If the decision i not made before then it will be impossible to publish the details in this paper. WSND AM will continue broadcasting throughout the exam period. If the decision hasn't been made by next Friday keep your radios on for the noon, evening and midnight news reports. 
Students may have won Round I this time. 
John Abowd 
FarWhat It'sWarth 


Detroit, Northern Ireland and Gun Control 
danruane 

CBS likes to play games with its advertising in the two news 
magazines. They always raise a question such as: Which city has 
more VD? or Which city has the longest welfare lines? 

After you have read the question, you look through 10 or so snapshots 
of VDclinics, or welfare recipients standing in lines; each picture 
labeled with the name of a major city. 

Another question to be asked is which city has the highest murder 
rate? There could be snapshots of homicide detectives watching a 
eorpse being loaded into an ambulance, or the chalk outline of a victim 
d!'scribing his position after crumbling to the ground mortally 
wounded. 

The winner, by a long run would be Detroit, which ironically is the source of another major factor of death, the automobile. The Motor City has the distinction of suffering almost as many killings since January 1, 1972 as Northern Ireland has suffered in the last three ~·f'ars. according to the lead editorial in the Detroit Free Press Monday, Nov. 27. There have been 623 murders, and Detroit has the highf'st per capita slaughter in the country. 
Chicago has reported 22 more murders this year than Detroit, but 
thf'n Chicago has two and one third times the population of Detroit and 
Northern Ireland, which have approxiamately 1.5 million people. 

Df'troit and Chicago even celebrated Thanksgiving in form with six and three murders respectively. The only other comparison between the two cities is that Detroiters commit 65 percent of their homicides by handguns. while Windy City residents bump each other off at a 66 p!'rcent clip by firearms. 
Washington, D.C. has had 235 murders this year, and reports a rate of approximately 60 per cent by firearms. Boston reports that 43 of 97 rf'corded homicides have been by firearms, and all but three of these bv handguns. 
There is definitely a need for gun control laws, and that includes all guns. not just hand-guns. Law enforcement officials throughout the country, if they know their business, will tell you such controls are d!'finitely a key to reducing the homicide rate. 
Gun lobbies will cry Constitutional violations of the right to bear arms, which may be true, but that is as yet unresolved. However, they do have other arguments. Afterall, owning a gun and learning how to use it builds character. The National Rifle Association said so itself on television. 
The NRA produced one of those shorts that takes you to the NRA hPadquarters, just like some football player takes you to Canton, Ohio and gives you a magic mystical tour through the pro football hall of fam£'. At the NRA headquarters you see some kid getting fed a bunch of crap about how mature it is to own and fire a gun, and then they take you to the range for a few rounds. 
Nobody but a mature responsible person should have access to a gun. But the argument that it builds character, goes about as far as the old saying that college sports builds character. Guns aren't sold to minors. They're sold to adults, and if adults haven't developed any character then they shouldn't have guns. 
Gun control proponents don't want to control people but the availability of guns. Most homicides are committed by friends, relatives and immediate family who have no real reason to possess a gun in the first place. Only those who can show beyond reasonable doubt that they nPed the protection of a gun, or those who have recreational uses should be sold guns. These intentions or needs might be proven by showing a number of assults on one's person or property, and by showing registration in a shooting club or a hunter's license. 
If the federal government isn't going to initiate any action, or can't make any progress because of the gun lobby, then the states must take the initiative. Everybody debates the constitutionality of gun control buy nobody moves to answer the question. 
Hopefully a state with a weak gun lobby could pass some sort of bill that either meets no opposition, or becomes a test case. There are just too many homicides by firearms. 
In the meantime Detroit will probably pass last year's homicide total of 690 persons, leaving Northern Ireland out in the peat bogs; Ball imore will probably add another 100 cases and pass 400 murders this year. and the nation will continue at its present pace of killing two of !'very three murder victims by firearms. 
the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor:. Jirn Donaldson Campus Editor: Ann Therese Darin Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Night Editor: george lund Ass't Night Editor: Art Esposito Day Editor: Tom Drape Sports Nigth Editor: Stan Urankar Night Controller: Phi I Orschein Typists: Barb Norcross, John Flannigan, 
Tom Modglin 

Editorials printed in the Observer reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reifeet the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 

Laing speaks at Washington Hall 
(Continued from page I) "If anyone takes that eriously then one is liable to be 
movin'g out where on has to watch it because people are always around atching to~ that one doesn't step out of line." . 
We are unwilling. Laing suggested, to let out mmds go and acutally follow such experience. The con­straints of prejudice as to what is insane, what should not be thought, interfere with "just taking chances with what comes" in our mental wanderings. 
Wf' have, said Laing, a "profound suspicion and mistrust of our minds. You get this even in Frf'ud ... The Unconcious becomes a dangerous caldron of l.'motions and desires and so forth that must be kept rl.'pressed or we will be destroyed by it." 
Opposed to this attitude towards the mind, Laing 
would set a freer, less concerned with "insanity", 
approach to life. 
He suggested a "better friendship, clos~ness to 
onl.'self." and offered that many states of mmd con­
sidered abnormal and unhealthy are actually useful 
and should be regarded as such. 
Laing cited as an example a young girl who retreated 
into herself to stare at a wall for as much as three 
hours at a time. This is not necessarily unhealthy, he 
suggested. "She had found a way to go out for a while 
without leaving the house." This is not, he suggested, 
so much different from staring at a television for three 
hours. "It's actually a matter of taste." 
Laing advocated the ability to "breathe easy" within 
one's mind. to ignore feelings that certain states of 
mind are somehow wrong and should be avoided if in 
fact that are more useful then not. 
We should learn not to fight certain states, such as 
anxiety' and fear, but rather to "observe" them within 
oursel~es, to come to understand them for what they 
arl.'. 
ThE' session £>nded with a question and answer period 
during which Laing, with but indifferent success, at­
tl.'mpted to clarify his views on the subject. 


St. Mary's sets 
St. Nicholas fair 
Thl.' Saint Nicholas Fair at Saint rPquirement for both young
Mary's College, Notre Dame, will woml.'n, who will graduate in 
featurl.' a student art exhibit and a Dl.'cember, 1972. 
st udl.'nt art sale during the month The artwork is experimental,
of lkcember. based upon the acquired
Two Saint Mary's College knowledge of each medium. Ms. 
sl.'niors, Karen Miller and Carmen Jean Battles and Mr. James 
Samora. will display their works in Paradis are the faculty directors 
thl.' College's Hammes Gallery, for Carmen Samora. Sister Rose 
rovl.'r of Moreau Hall, December 8-Wlll.'n MRose Ellen Morrissey,
:.w·. 1972. The exhibit reception, C.S.C. and Ms Sarita Levin are the 
opm to the public, will be from 4:00 faculty directors for Karen Miller. 
p.m. at 7:00 p.m., Friday, T A 'one-day sale of student art lkcember 8, 1972. work will take place from 10:00 Ms. Miller. Piqua, Ohio, will a.m. to 8:00 p.m., Wednesday,display etchings and xeroxed Dl.'cember 6, 1972, in the new prints, and Ms. Samora, South Moreau Art Gallery. All art Bl.'nd. Indiana, will display mediums will be represented from 
wl.'aving and ceramic forms. This freshmen through senior students. show fulfills the senior thesis This annual event is open to the public. 

Earthmover 
Men and machines combine to move a heck af a lot of earth for one purpose: to make room for the new law school additions. Scheduled time for the bulldozers to move out and the potential barristers to move in? Hopefully, sometime next 
year. 



~ ll~~.u~~ ~ 
lli1-'11~ 
;,a~le






:ral&el
.. ~-\~~ ' 
Bring your hungry herd to our place. We've got a wide range of steaks at prices to please you all. 

PONDEROSA 

STEAK HOUSE 
52627 U.S. 31 N. 
and Town & Country Shopping Ctr. 


Also Concor~ Mall in Elkhart 
~pen 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. Dail~ 
Downtown open Mon. & Thurs. 'til 9. Blackmond's open Fri. 
~ Fri. and Sat. to 10 P.M. ~ 
'til9. Others open nite 'til9. 
~ 


-

6 the observer Thursday, November 30, 1972 
Stay -hall procedure debated by the SLC 
by Jim Eder Starr Rt>porter 

The stay-hall system of deter­mining student residence on t·ampus was one of the major topics Pxamined at the open SLC mPE:'ting held last week to discuss aspE:'cts of student housing. 
SpE:'aking in favor of the stay-hall systE:'m, Fred Baranowski, prE:'sidE:'nt of Holy Cross Hall, prt'sE:'ntE:'d four reasons for con­' inuing it: hall unity, hall gt~wstE:'m'st. hall friendship and rhl' svstE:'m-s current success. 
"Ttw hall." said Baranowski, "is quickly becoming the center of st udPnt life at Notre Dame. Each hall dPvPlops its own personality which acts as a unifying factor among its students." Hall go\'PrnrnPnt. hE:' also asserted, has pro\'Pd successful and is now an 1mportant fore£' on campus. 
<'oncern ing the friendship factor. Baranowski argued that "IIH' hall opPratPs as a closely knit group. so idE:'as tend to be executed morP effectively." 
liP also pointed out that fresh­nwn "gain a better understanding 
Art gallery 

stages new show 
ThE:' traditional Christmas Show of the UnivE:'rsity of Notre Dame's Art Gallery was opened this week in thE:' O'Shaughnessy Hall exhibit an•a. l<'eaturing paintings, prints and sculpture. it will be open to the public until 5 p.m. daily through N<•w YPar's Day. 
Two vE:'ry early sculptures in stone of the Madonna and Child, onP a 16th CPntury piece by (;iovanni Amadeo of Italy, and :mothE:'r by a Burgundian French artist in the 15th Century, are <'xcellmt examples of distinct styles of carving. The Italian work is Carrara marble while the Burgundian is French limestone. 
ThE:' largest painting in the Notre Dame E:'xhibit is also one of the first works of art given to the gallery by Charles A.Wightman, an early b£'n£'factor of the University. It dt-picts the Holy Family. "Adoration of the Magi," a painting by Sebastiana Concha in the 18th Century, is another work on view. 
Two Ptchings of the "Adoration of the Magi." one by Canini and the other by Golzius, are hung side by sid£' for study purposes. These \·alued prints were the gifts of South BPnd friends, Professor Thomas St ritch of American Studies DPpartment, and Mr. and Mrs. Homan Radecki. 
The Notre Dame gallery is open from I to 5 p.m. weekends and from 10 to 5 p.m. weekdays. 
Otis Bowen to 

speak at CCE 
Dr. Otis R. Bowen, Indiana governor-t'lect, will discuss major programs planned for his ad­mmstration at a public talk at 3:30 
p.m. f<'riday December 1 in the <'<•ntE:'r for Continuing Education at the University of Notre Dame. 
Th<' ralk is 'part of the "State of Lif<' in America" lecture series ~ponsored by students of the Notre Dam<' Law School and is open to th<' public without charge. 
Dr. RowPn. a native of Bremen, 1s a formE:'r speaker fo the Indiana Ilouse of Representatives. 
IIELI' SAVE LIVES 



GIVE BLOOD 
Stepan Center Thurs. 10-4 Fri. 9-3 

of university life" when they live anywhere on campus. Freshmen with upperclassmen. Baranowski w£'r£' housed together in halls on 
concluded that since the stay-hall the North Quad. syst£'m is "working well now," it Gradually opposition to this should be continued. procedure grew until in 1969, the 
On the other side of the ledger, sf a y-hall system became a Chris Singleton, president of unii:ersity poiicy. Quotas of fresh­f<'arley Hall. argued that the stay­own W£'re then assigned to each hall system should be modified. hall. Now every hall is given a "Th£' basic disadvantage is that it quota of each class. r£'stricts the students' freedom to Hi£'hl£' also E:'xplained some move from hall to hall." Singleton points concerning off-campus point£'d out that, for some people, housing. BE:'cause there are only living with the same rector and rli!O beds on campus, ap­students for four years "could' proximately 1600 students must t·ause problems." liv£' off campus. According to 
f<'ather James L. Riehle, Dean of HiPhlP. ~hPre is an off-campus .•tudents and Director of !lousing, office but it has been a loosely­<'Xplained that the stay-hall system run organization." No restrictions was originated as a move to in­havP Pver been placed upon r PgratP freshmPn with the rest of st udE:'nts as to where they could th£' students. Prior to 1965, seniors livE:'. and the office has never taken with highest grade point averages thE:' rPsponsibility of inspecting the wPre iven their choice of rooms conditions of off-campus housing. 

Observer 

News Staff Meeting 
Regular, short business meeting Tonight 7:00pm Lafortune 2-D 
Sr udent Government Off­<'ampus Commissioner Bob Sauer said that there are two major factqrs di::ifouraging students from 
movmg ol campus: The lack of good housing and the high food prices. Sauer stated that he would like to see "more , apartments available for students and the organization of a food CO-{)p." 
Proposals for determining which studPnts must move off campus [)('caus£' of the present over­crowd<'d situation were bandied 
about. but no definite solutions W<'r£' rPach<'d. Father James F. !<'Ianigan. <\ssociate Vice-President of :Student Affairs suggested that smc<' man:v people do not approve ol s<'IE:'ct•on by grade point a\'<'rage. "Maybe those students not contributing to the hall or not living in harmony with the other n•sidE:'nts should be asked to leave th<' hall." 
BiPhiP. how<'ver, noted that it was not advisable to make off­

rban Studies Evening Thursday, November 30 7:00PM Room 103 O'Shaughnessy 
'1. Work study for academic credit 
2. 
Urban studies seminar 

3. 
Urban studies double maior 

4. 
Urban studies certificate 



THIS WINTER RECESS, TWA HAS THE BEST WAYS TO DO EUROPE YOUR OWN WAY. 
TWA. IF YOU WANT GREAT CITY AND SKI PACKAGES. 
Cities like London, Paris, Rome and Amsterdam. (Only with TWA can you leave when you want.) For example, for only $50.00 plus airfare, you can get 7 days in London. Including a room with private bath, breakfast, four tickets to the London theatre, free admission to six discos and much more. 
Or, there are our Great Ski Packages to places like St. Moritz, Zermatt and Innsbruck. Like for only $68.00 plus airfare, you can get 7 days at St. Moritz. Including chalet accommodations, breakfasts, transfers, taxes and tips. 
TWA. IF YOU WANT TO GO IT ALONE. 
Only TWA gives you Stutel pass.* A coupon booklet that gets you a room and Continental breakfast in a guesthouse or student hotel in any of 52 cities for only $4.30 a night, no reservations needed. Plus tickets good for meals, concerts, bullfights and much more. 
TWA. FOR THE ONLY FREE BONUSES WORTH OVER $40.00. 
Fly to London or Paris on TWA (whether on a tour or on your own), and we'll give you a coupon booklet worth over $40.00 of freebees. A free membership and drink at an "in" London club, free motorcycle rental in Paris and on and on. Plus hundreds of dollars worth ofgreat discounts. 
TWA. FOR THE ONLY FREE CREDIT CARD AT AGE 18. 
It's called our Getaway* Card. With it you can charge airfare, TWA's Great City and Ski Packages, Stutelpass, meals and much more in Europe. For more information, including TWA's free Winter Recess Brochure, stop at any TWA counter or see your travel agent. 

*Stutelpass and Getaway are service marks owned exclusively by TWA. 


Thursday, November 30, 1972 the observer 
7 


No breakthrough seen in Paris peace talks 

by Andrew Borowiec 1 ( • l 1!II:! Washington Star-News 
Paris. Nov. :!!I--There is not rn uch hope here for a breakthrough in the Vietnam dPadlock when Presidential ad­viser Henry A. Kissinger meets the North Vil>tnamese for another round of private talks next week. 
In fact. despite some optimism voicPd publicly by Foreign l\1inister Maurice Schumann, the French government exp3cts that tpdious nPgotiations are likely to drag on for months. 
U.S. no longer under pressure 
Aeeording to an assessment by rop FrPnch officials, the United States is no longer under pressure ro seek a quick settlement now that the PrPsident ial elections are over. 
ThP French apparently believed ;dl along rhat much of the Anwrican haste in seeking an Pari~· agreement was based on "PIPcforal considerations." 
ThP f'rench reasoning is that the llni!Pd Srates wanted to show some progress to the electorate without tH'l"Pssarily negotiating the final peace 1reaty. Having done this, the Americans now want to make the treaty as palatable as possible to those who feared that the original draft was a hasty document. full of loopholes. 
Thl' American effort to change some of the basic points of the treaty. according to th~ French, has run into stilf North Vtetnamese opposition. At this stage, the FrPnch do not expect any North ViPtnamesc concessions, nor do thpv feel that the United States is wiliing to go back to the original draft. 
French skeptical 
All this is making the French highly skeptical about the chances for an Parly agreement. Still, the FrPnch government feels that the twgot iat ions arc serious and that a 
,oJut ion  can  be  reached  even­ 
!uallv.  
Thi.•se observations  were  made  

on the Pve of another session of the formal public talks. due to convene tomorrow after a two-week recess lor the Thanksgiving holiday. Tomorrow's session is expected to provide a forum for strong at­racks against the Nixon ad-

campus living a ''penal colony." Father Andrew Ciferni, rector of lloly Cross Hall, suggested that all rhe rPctors meet with the students in their halls to explain the off­eampus situation to them and ask !heir opinions as to how the process of choosing students to move off eampus should be handled. SpPaking for the Rectors Com­mittee. Ciferni emphasized that rhP select ion should be made as soon as possible. Another topic raised at the nweting was the methods used in allowing students to choose their own rooms within the halls. Ac­eording to Flanigan, each hall now has itw own policy, ranging from select ion by class and grade to dass lotteries. In Flanner Hall, for Pxamplc, the grade point average of Pach set of roommates-to-be dPtPrmines their selection status. Dillon Hall uses the "Dillon Hall Adjusted A vcrage System." A sf udent's room -pick status is not onl.v detPrmined by grade point <t\'Prage but also by his length of n•sidencp in the hall and his contributions to the hall and tmivPrsitv. Some ·halls set aside certain rooms for incoming freshman in order to distribute them equally throughout the hall. Others sPgregate them by freezing entire spct ions of rooms. .Joanne Szafran and Kathy Cekanski. rectors of Walsh and Badin halls respectively, spoke on the womPn 's view of the housing situation. Szafran has take'l a poll of 190 residents in Walsh and found rhat onlv nine of them would like to mo,·e <;ff campus. Eleven are undPcidcd but would like to be gin•n the option. Forty-six women in Walsh expressed a desire to rotate halls, and another fourteen said they would if their friends eould move. CPkanski said that a significan number of Badin residents also would like to move to a new dorm. S;afran explained that "three important factors in determining a nPw women's dorm should be location, size, and security." She also found that most women desiring to change halls, wouldk like single rooms. Szafran insisted 
"KAMAAINA SENIORS For in­formation on jobs in 
Hawaii after graduation 
write:  Kamaaina  
Career  Opportunity  
Day,  Box  9668,  

Honolulu, HI ~6820." 
ministration by the North Viet­
tHimPse imd Vietcong 
deiPgations.The formal talks, 
while providing some continuity in 
the eontacts, serve mainly as a 
smokescreen to cover Kissinger's 
private efforts. Yet the Com­
munist side has used them in the 
past as an indication of itsmood. 
B\ all forecasts, tomorrow's 
spPechPs will be angry ones, 
reflecting Communist frustration 
at what is believed to be a major 
Anwrican effort to have that 
agreem<•nt revised. 
The American delegation, hPaded by William J. Porter, will sav verv' little. Porter has been kP~ping' a low profile. not wanting ro shed any light on the state of Kissinger's private contacts. 
negotiators dismayed 
The Anwrican negotiators were rPportedly dismayed by a series of leaks which managed to pierce sornPwhat the wall of secrecy ~ imposed by mutual agreement on rhe private talks. Although the llnited States itself did not engage in any leaks. the Saigon ad­ministration did not hesitate to 
·.
announce a deadlock on the basis 

Room picks dominate SLC meeting :: ,:: 
·.
rhat the selection of a hall for 
;rnd students alike. especially:;.
wom<'n in the 1973-74 school year considering that the meeting was ::: 
must be done as soon as possible in sehPduled so near to the:~ 
nrdPr to allow sufficient time for Thanksgiving holiday." ,.; .-~­intprviewing new staff members. 
II<' wPnt on to say that he felt the I>r. Hobert L. Ackerman, nwet ing had accomplished a great
chairman of the SLC steering deal. "WP are now much better 
committee, said that he was very informed about the housingpleasf,'d to see that the open problems and each other's views;nwet ing was "well-attended by consPquPntly, we are better able to 

council members. guest speakers lind the nPcessary solutions." 
Coffeehouse 
planned for this Friday Dec. 1, has been postponed due to a request from the musicians for more time to prepare. 


Mr. Baron award winning stylist in this area 
also Our Advanced Lady Stylists 
Call for appointments--259-7679 student rates1321 E. McKinley Hwy.--Mish. 
Mon., Tues. &21!2 mi. east of T&C Shopping Center Wed. 
Knights of Columbus 
STEAK DINNER 
Sunday, Dec. 3·5:00 pm Guests welcome in company of a member Members must sign up at Council by 9:00 pm Thursday. 

of eonfidmtial reports passed on from its mission in Paris, which was briefed by .Kissinger himself. 
f'or their part, the North Viet­namese hinted to some of their neutralist friends in Paris that the talks had run into trouble. Some versions ciaimed that the snag developed from the very first day of Kissinger's latest meeting with North Vietnamese negotiator Le Due Tho. 
The leaks made it fairly clear that the two negotiators were 
Santa Claus (child 
!~ . 


CLASSIFIED ADS 

ren s photojSee it all at the: available) 
FOR SALE 

1967 Lotus Elan Coupe 25,000 mi. Excellent cond. $2275 · 272-1432. 
Former Navy Officer has Uniforms for sale; call John 935. 5214 Plymouth. 
Noise makers for sale. Send name and telephone number to 
'63 Ford Galaxy, Radio, Power Steer, Heated, runs good. Kevin 288-1184 after ll pm. 
For sale ; Craig 8 track tape player and assorted tapes. Call Mike at 272-2977 or 3881 Leave Number. 
CHEECH AND CHONG Ticket for sale Call George 232-5633. 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost: one bracelet watch and one '73 SMC Class ring (MBCJ on Death March. Phone: 4726 or 
4170. --------­Lost 14 K gold graduation charm, Reward! 5464. 
Found; Men's glasses, near library, Monday night. 232-8867. 
Lost: Suede belt to a winter coat, light brown. Call Steve, 1059. 
Lost: One woman's ring at St. Mary's. If found, call KAYO 233. 2274. 
WANTED 

Ride needed to Toledo or Bowling Green this weekend. Call 1101. 
Need ride to Bloomington, lll. (lSUJ Dec. 1 -Call Jim 3274. 
Men and women students needed to help get YWCA Home for Girls ready to open. Some jobs are: painting bunk beds, cleaning floors, moving furniture, etc. Supplies are at the Home; just drop in and work. 520 North Lafayette. See Jay or JoAnn 
Powell, or phone 233-9491 and ask for Carol Wilken. 
Wanted: Ambitious person or couple interested in earning good part-time income. For interview call Mr. Wells -272-8375. 
1 or 2 riders to Orange Bowl. Leaving Indianapolis Dec. 29. Must share expenses. Call Jim 259-9173. 
Need ride West on 1-80 to LaSalle, Ill. on Dec. 2 and back on Dec. 3. Call 8038. 
Ride needed to Colorado or New Mexico for Christmas vacation. carr Steve, 1059. 
Need apartment for one for next semester. Preferably close to campus & CHEAP. Call Rick 8284, Chris 4964 or Larry-Paul 8276. 
NOTICES 
Gals, earn $10 to $20 dollars for 2 hours work from your home. For details call 272-8375. 
Europe! Lowest rates to all European cities! Daily flights from N.Y., 'Chicago, D.c., Philadelphia and others. British Overseas Airways Corp. Call Clark, 283-8810, for 
details. 
Typing: essay-term paper-thesis. desertation-technical or research report we do them professionally, efficiently,and reasonably. Expert Secretarial Service. 233-9466 or 233-3257. 
Pandora's Books has gift ideas for yourself or others. S. B. Ave at 
N.D. ave. 
Every Friday at 4; 55 a non -stop Greyhound leaves the Circle for Chicago. Call Tom Boyer, 234­8259 for reservations. 
HELP the helpless unborn, with time, money, or both. Right·to Life, Inc. 233-4295. 
To score your tickets for the Thursday night CHEECH AND CHONG concert at the Morris Civic, call 8253. Free posters! 
ND SMC VOLUNTEERS AT LOGAN CENTER: Saturday Recreation on Dec. 2nd will begin at 12:00 not the usual 9:00. 
Christmas Loans! Not due until January 19th. Morrissey Loan Fund. Open until Dec. 13. Mon(:lay-Friday, ll :15-12:15. La Fortune Basement. 
FINAL SCORE (1966) NOTRE DAME 51 
SOUTHERN CAL 0 "Never again will l be beaten by a Notre Dame team" 
John McKay 
PERSONALS 
RASENER: What's your sur. prise? This is mine. Happy reading! Love, Mary Pat 
Deadline for all classified ads is 
1:00  pm  the  day  before  
publication.  All  ads  must  be  
placed  in  person  and  must  be  
prepaid.  


-


the observer Thursday, November 30, 1972
8 

Valpo wrestlers dump ND. 24-19 
by "Lefty Ruschmann pound Terry Younhans decisioned again, overwhelming George pinned him at 6:46 of the final takedown on Delmogo and pinnedNotre Dame's Mark Renquillo, 14-Stillfar by a 20-2 count. Though period. him, cittying the Irish lead to 15-14. 
Re~enge-minded Valparaiso 7. The match was relatively close Martin was unable to register a Freshman Dave Boyer, in his 177-pound Bill Moran battle Univer\ity spoiled the home debut for the first two periods, but pin. his two near-falls in the middle first varsity match, met the Valpo's Jim Nynes to a 2-2 draw, of the N~re Dame wrestling team Younghans wore Renquillo down in period put him in a commanding Crusaders' ace 142-pounder Bob with all the scoring coming in the last night,\coming from behind to the final stanza to assure his lead at 15-1. Thompson and managed to muscle final period. Moran held a 2-1 lead defeat the h-jsh by a 24-19 score. victory. Ronquillo led briefly at 3-2 Steve Brischetto filling in for the him to a 1-1 standstill. Boyer by virtue of a takedown, but riding The Crusadel'li won the meet by in the second round, but Irish at 134 pounds, spotted the PSCaped early in the second peiod time. which plagued Notre Dame virtue of Kurt ·.Peil's pin of AI Younghans escaped and came Crusaders' Mike Sealritz a· 5-0 to take a 1-0 lead, which stook up all night. provided Nynes the Rocek in the final match of the back to score a takedown. advantage before staging a intil Thompson scored th tying typing point. £'vening, after Notre Dame had Following an other Ronquillo comeback victory. Seallitz went escape in the final periodi Bob Latta of Notre Dame, and held on to a slim lead they escape in the third period, ahead on two takedowns and an Pat O'Connor spelling· the in­the Crusaders' Bill Drewdlow drew fashioned earlier in the meet. Younghas again took down his escape before tiring late in the jured Lou DiPasquale at 150 4-4 in the 190-pound event. Second­
Valparaiso took its only other opponent for a decisive 10-5 lead. second period. Brischetto, trailing pounds, lost to a strong comeback period action provided most of the lead of the evening in the opening Mike Martin, wrestlin at 125 5-2 in the final period, took down by Valpo's Chris Skoczyl;Js, 7-6. scoring, with both wrestlers match, going ahead 3-0 after 118-pounds, gave Notre Dame the lead his opponent and subsequently O'Connor took a 4-1 lead after matching a takedown and escape 
opening period action, but Skoc­to force a 3-3 tie. Though Latta 

Jim Dona ldson==~===:=::::::===========:::::::::=:=:::=:=:=:=:::::::::::=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::=:=:=:=:=:::~:::::::=:=:::::::::::::::::::::::::=:=:::=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::=:=:=:=:=:= zylas rallied to go ahead 6-5 in the wPnt in front, 4-3, following a final minutes. His advantage in second-peiod escape, Valpo's riding tim£' was enough to over-riding-time advantage a gain 
come a late escape O'Connor. proved crucial.
The Irish Eye 

===============================:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:::::::::::=:=:=======:====~Hemingway, USC, and a look at hockey 
"Do you want to come up and hear the Irish have, on five occasions, kept U.S.C. from going game this afternoon?" though a season with an unblemished record. "Oh. no." she said. "I'd be too excited. I'll In each of the last two seasons, Southern Cal has be in the chapel praying." dropped Notre Dame from the ranks of the unbeaten. 
"We ought to be able to hear it pretty well," Twice, since Ara Parseghian came to Notre Dame, Mr. Frazer said. "They're playing out on the the Trojans have beaten an undefeated Irish club in coast and the difference in time will bring it the final game of the season ('64 and '70). In 1968 and late enough so we can get it all right." '69, Notre Dame tied otherwise unbeaten Trojan 
"Oh, no.. I couldn't do it. The world series teams. nearly finished me. When the Athletics were And every Notre Dame fan is well aware that the at bat I was praying right out loud: 'Oh, Lord, Irish haven't beaten S.C. since 1966, when the Trojans direct their batting eyes! Oh, Lord, may he were trounced, 51 -o, insuring Notre Dame of the hit one! Oh, Lord, may he hit safely!' ... Then national title. you know when the Cardinals would come to There's certainly nc. ldck of incentive for the Irish bat it was simply dreadful. 'Oh, Lord, may this time around. They can be avengers, spoilers and they not see it! ... Oh, Lord, may they fan!' national chanpoinship contenders with a win this And this game is even worse. It's Notre weekend. But it'll take the best game Notre Dame Dame. Our Lady. No, I'll be in the chapel. has played this year. And a few prayers. For Our Lady. They're playing for Our Lady." 
" ... You'd better come up and hear the Notre Dame's hockey team is also in a di­game." fficult spot this weekend, playing a strong Wis­
*** 

"It would be too much for me. No, I'll be in consin sextet in a four-point series at Madison. the chapel doing what I can." Things haven't been going well for the Irish, 
· That afternoon they had been playing about losers of three of their last four games, In re­five minutes when a probationer came into cent weeks. Against Minnesota last Friday andthe room and said, "Sister Cecilia wants to Saturday nights at the ACC they turned in whatknow how the game is going?" 
coach "Lefty" Smith called "an extremely poor

"Tell her they have a touchdown already." 
performance" and split an eight -point series with

In a little while the probationer came into 
the Gophers. leadof the night at 15-8 when ISS­n£'eding a victory in the heavy­the room again. 
a total of effort and hustle Rich edged
"Tell her they're playing them off their ''There was lack pound Gilloon W£'ight division to win the meet, 
last weekend," Smith said. "Getting beat Is one Valpariso's Joel Rows, 8-7, coming smt in AI Rocek to face thefeet," Mr. Frazer said. 
A little later he rang the bell for the nurse thing, but getting outhustled Is a different matter. back from a 7-1 second-round Crusaders' tough heavyweight who was on floor duty. "Would you mind 
Seeing Minnesota outhustle Notre Dame was, deficit. Gilloon closed to within Kurt Peil. Rocek, who normally going down to the chapel or sending word as Smith commented after Saturday's 7-1 debacle, three points at the end of two wrestles at 190, was forced up one 
peiods a takedown class replace

down to Sister Cecilia that Notre Dame has "very. very discouraging." with and wPight to Mike 
Pscape. hands

... them fourteen to nothing at the end of the first "Hustle overcomes a multitude of sins," Smith He used the same com­Fanning; he had his full 
bination, a takedown and escape,

quater and that it's all right. Who can stop said. "Every time there was a loose puck, against the larger Peil. Rocek held 
praying." they'd beat us to it." to forge a 7-7 draw late in the Peil to a scoreless opening period, match. The deciding point came but fell victim to a takedown and
In a few minutes Sister Cecilia came into The lack of Notre Dame hustle was in evidence with five seconds remaining, when pin at 2:56 of the match.
the room. She was very excited. "What does The Irish did a poor
at both ends of the rink. T£'ws was penalized for stalling. Notre Dame's wrestlers travel to 
fourteen to nothing mean? I don't know job on defense. failed to forecheck well. a!ld were Dennis Thomas, the Crusaders' Hochester, N.Y. over the weekend anything about this game. That's a nice safe 
unable to do much offensively. Only outstanding 
dangerous 167-pounder, managed to take on an eight-team field in theleade in baseball. But I don't know anything goaltending by Mark Kronholm (36 saves) and late lead over Dame's

a 4-1 Notre Hochester Invitational. The nextabout football. It may not mean a thing. I'm goals by Larry Israelson :md John Noble enabled freshman Mike Delmogo after one

going right back down to the chapel and pray Irish home meet is Friday,
Notre Dame to edge the Gophers 3-2 Friday, period. Thomas, with 56 seconds December 8, which has beenuntil it's finished." 
although Minnesota looked like the better club for gone in the second stanza, scored a designated "Freshman Night."
"They have them beaten," Frazer said. "I most of the game.
promise you. Stay and listen with me." 
Scoring has been a real problem for the Irish

·"No.\No. No. No. No. NOO. No. No," she 
lately. Notre Dame has accounted for just six

said. "I'm going right down to the chapel to 
Sailors take seventh
goals in its last four games and, in addition, has
pray." 

been held scoreless on its last 24 power play The Notre Dame sailing team the Irish skippers, and at the end of Mr. Frazer sent down word whenever Notre 
Dame scored and finally, when it had been opportunities. an almost unbelievable stretch of competed in the annual Timme the first day of competition NO Regatta over
dark a long time, the final result. impotency. Angsten the was in third place behind Navy and 
Bumbacco, Thanksgiving break, and the Maritime.
" ...1 knew they couldn't beat Our Lady," With the exception of Eddie Paul 
holiday and

she said. "They couldn't." Regan and Ian Williams, Notre Dame hasn't found sailors' efforts were Saturday brought snow 
rewarded seventh 

anyone who can put the puck in the net consistently. with a place light. shifty winds, but Notre Dame 
finish--{)ut of a field of 17 schools.

Ernest Hemingway, The Gambler, The Nun, D'Arcy Keating, supposedly one of the more dan­was able to keep up its pace during 
Top collegiate sailors from the the early events. During the af­

The Radio gerous Irish forwards, has yet to score a point entire country, including four All­ternoon, though, the lrich tanked
In eight games. Neither has junior college trusfer 
Americans, met at Chicago's !Several races. and were tied forWith the advent of the Southern California game it Mike Dunphy. Soph wing Ray DeLorenzi, wbo Belmont Harbor and braved ~ixth place at the end of the day. 

was common practice for Notre Dame's student looked as If he might emerge as a star after freezing weather, snow, and icy Sunday's racing did not improvebody, in the not so distant past, to assemble at the a great pre-season, hasn't done much since the water. 
NO's fortunes, and the final day of 


Grotto and entreat the Blessed Virgin for aid and Irish started playing for real, scoring just one N£'w York Maritime was the competition saw the Irich slip tovictory. Whether or not Mary was a football fllw was goal. Center Pat Conroy has only two assists 
winner of the three-day event­!'leventh overall, though ND wasneverdefinitely•ascertained but, more often thMl not, to his credit and Notre Dame's defensemen, which consisted of 34 races held in the second-highest midwestern
the Irish were able to win, whether the odds were 
touted as one of the most offensive blue line Lehman IO's--and the Naval firtisher. great or small. corps in the WCHA, have accounted for just Academy placed second with 
This weekend, Notre Dame will face its toughest Michigan's Woverines finishing The nominating meeting for the
one goal thus far. 

opponent of the season, the number one ranked third. Midwest Collegiate Sailing
Disturbed by his club's lack of scoring punch, 

Southern California Trojans, and the odds against an Notre Dame got off to a good Association was also held at the
Smith has completely rearranged the forward

Irish victory Saturday in Los Angeles have to be start on Friday, with Will Donelan Chicago regatta, and Bruce Marek 
lines for this weekend's Wisconsin series.

classified in the "great" category. The boys in the skippering in "A" division and was nominated for the post of vice­
Noble will skate between Bumbacco and DeLorenzi. 

betting business list the Irish in as 14 point underdogs George Gaw in "B". Bruce Marek, commodore. Elections and the
Williams has been shifted to right wing on a

and it's been a long while since a Notre Dame team Robie Gaw, Rob Albergo, AI scheduling of next year's regatta
line with Conroy and Israelson, although it's

rated that kind of a spread. Constants, Mike Dooley, and Skip will take place at Bowling Green, 
A look at the Trojans' record justifies that sort of likely that Williams, hampered by a muscle pull, Reynolds alternated as crews for in February.
confidence. Only team, Stanford, has will be spelled at that spot by Keating at Madison.
one come within 10 points of coach John McKay's powerhouse, Dunphy has been moved to center, where he they start to mesh." losing 30-21. UCLA, which lost 24 -7, gave USC its played in Canada, from his left wing post and With a rematch with the perenially tough next biggest "scare". Regan, who had been at center, will be on his Denver Pioneers, who have already defeated 
Southern Cal has averaged 38 points per game, left. Ric Schafer will be the third man on Notre Dame twice this season, following this 
giving up only 9.4, while romping past 10 opponents Dunphy's line. , weekend's set In Wisconsin, the Irish will have 
and now only Notre Dame stands in the way of the "Comming off a weekend like the last one 
to start hustling and start scoring quickly orTrojans' first perfect season since 1962.t and looking at the statistics indicated that a find themselve~ far off the pace for the league
Perfect records have been a difficult thing to 
change was In order," Smith explained. "We've championship early in the year. They're too preserve in this claJsic series. The Trojans have had to rearrange our personnel and now I hope good a team to be hovering around the .500
spoiled six perfect seaaons for Notre Dame and the mark --but tbey bavea•t sbowa it yet. 



-





