
On The Inside 
Term papers reviewed ... p.8 Mock Convention ........pg. 6 
Vol. VI, No. 108 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Wednesday, April 12, 1972 
Report examines faculty role 
by Chris Sullivan 

A report drafted recently by the Subcommittee on Faculty Ethics of the Faculty Manual Committee outlines proposals for increasing Ute role of the faculty in-University government, and for redefining Notre Dame's priorities with weighted reference to the views of faculty and students. 
According to Dr. Peter Walshe, Mrican Studies Program director and one of the four framers of the draft, it represents a significant attempt to. re-invest a view of the University as primarialy "community of faculty and students ... a learning community." All of the report's recomendations reflect that "central viewpoint," Walshe said in an interview Tuesday. 
The subcommittee's report divides into five major sections regarding the status of the University in general, the religious tradition at Notre Dame, the relationship of the University to society, "facult~ 


ethics and academic freedom," and the proposed augmenting of faculty power in the governance of the · University.
Dr. Walshe explained that in writing the first section, the subcommittee tried to establish the prime im­portance of the activity of the faculty and student body. the University's general purpose as well as that of each individual within it, relates finally to this faculty­student group.
The present University fovernment, Walshe said, "should take into account" the central place of faculty and students. the report goes on to state that if this were taken into account, "the principle administrative officers" would be "acceptable to and accountable to, the faculty and students." Walshe also pointed out the report's de-emphasis of full-time administrators in favor of those who would "come up ... serve ... and return to the faculty."
Notre Dame is a "peculiar institution" in its religious tradition, Walshe continued, substantiating the report which. he claimed, attempts to take the tradition and "cqallenge it to meet the intellectually exciting prospects within ecumenism." 
In its third section, the report details the reciprocal relationship between the University and the surrounding society. In return for "benefactions," the University owes society certain services. The University further must continuously provide a useful critique of the society. The report concludes: "society needs the University, and yet needs to keep it at arm's Iength.The University in turn needs society and yet needs to keep from being absorbed by it." 
A faculty member, the report states in its section on ethics and academic freed on, "is a maker of policy, a scholar, and an educator." Among his functions are questioning and redefining the institution while being "always in some sense its representative." 
Finally, "in light of the above," the report proposes that the faculty should be represented on the Board of 


, 
j 
~ 
Dr. Peter Walsche ~ Trustees and that the highest administrative officers ~
,
should be appointed "by common agreement between 

,
the faculty Senate and the Board of Trustees." 

Dr. Walshe said that no plans had been made to 1 implef!Ient the proposals but he suggested that a ~ committee be created by Univerity President Fr. 1
,
Theodore .M. Hesburgh to focus on the report and to review the implications of the two recent open letters 1 from faculty on the future of the University. 1 
~he suggested committee would include represen­~ tatives from the Administration, the Faculty Senate, 1 the Board of Trustees, and from among the signatories l of the letters. 1 
Walshe re-emphasized that the report's main intent 1 was to promote "discussion" rather than to serve as a 1 "definitive statement." He cited "genuine interest in I the re~ort" .on the part of the faculty. 
S~rvmg with Walshe on the subcommittee on Faculty Ethics are Professors Harvey Bender, of the biology department, Edwin Goerner, of the government department; and John Houck of the business faculty. 


Considine:'Look into your hearts' 
by Ann McCarry 
Arguing that people can not exist in a "glass bub­ble", insulated from a government that kiiis in the name of the people, Buffalo Five member Meaux Considine last night told students, "look into your hearts and see what you can do." 
"There's a real crisis; people are dying and dying because of us," the former Saint Mary's student continued. "It's our fault, our bombs, our government, in our names ... We have the potential to stop this," Ms. 
Considine  told  the  50  students  who  attended  the  
Celebration of  Self  events in Carroll Hall.  
Refering  to  her  own  personal experience,  Ms.  

Considine stressed action in proportion to the crisis at hand. For this young woman the celebration of her self began at the moment her action met the proportion of the crisis. 
"August 21st I put my body where my mind and mouth were for so long." 
On this day Ms. Considine and four others were arrested inside the Buffalo, N. Y. federal building which houses the local Selective Service Bureau. They were indicted with conspiracy, theft of government property, and burglary. Ms. Considine, former ND student Jeremiah Horrigan, Jim Martin, and Ann Masters will go on trial on Monday April17, in Buffalo. 
"I did what I did because personally it was right for me," the defendent said. "To take back the responsibility that belongs to you is a frightening thing. How many of us are willing to die for peace? If peace is going to come, the price is going to be just as high as war" she continued "A few years behind bars is a small price to pay." 
Ms. Considine evaluated the value of the Saint Mary's education as the development of a complete woman who is "responsible, moral, integretous, courageous. 
"Don't waste your time here," she cautioned. "Begin to realize your potential...You have more time now than you'll ever have ... more moral, responsible people around you than you'll ever have ... There is tremen­dous room for growth." 
The Celebration of Self is striving to encouage in­dividuals to realize their own being and the necessity for this individualism to be nourished by the spirit found only through community. As a former member of this community, Maureen "Meaux" Considine sees this community spirit and interdependence of self as its impressive quality. 
"All we have is each other and that's one of the amazing things about this community--its potential for togetherness. I am not what I am without all of you," she said. 
The Buffalo Five member urged those present to strive for this being through committment. Meaux' fulfillment came through committment to stopping "this madness." 
"Try to say to yourself, over and over, something that Dan Berrigan says, 'We have chosen to say with the gift of our liberty, if necessary our lives: the violence stops here, the supression of truth stops here, this war stops here." 



the observer Wednesday, April 12, 1972
2 


r 
r 
r 
r t 
World briefs 
establishing femaleness
Celebration of Life and maleness, campus ministry room
1: 30--lecture, Iinnea vacca,

(c) 1972 New York Times 6: 30--lecture, gail ralph, to
remaining single ... pro anc con, stapleton 

be black and female, Saigon--A series of attacks by the North Vietnamese in the moun­stapleton lounge.
lounge.

tains west of Hue were reportedly thrown back after 102 of the foe were 6: 30--lecture, terry auda,
1: 30--lecture, sr. kathy

killed. In the central highlands to the south of Hue, the enemy was On campus fr. ned reidy, women in
reichert, women, care

reported to have moved longrange artillary into position to shell the athletics, campus
and prayer-appeal and

city of Kontum. ministry room.
life activity, campus ministry room. 7:30--lecture, glnnyMoscow--American lecturers will be able to give courses in Soviet today clahane, eileen Iindburg,
2: 30--lecture, ann clark,

universities and vice-versa under the terms of an enlarged cultural women and the economy, 
feminine logic--do

exchange agreement signed in Moscow by the United States and the stapleton lounge.
women think logically,

Soviet Union. The agreement allows each country to send up to eight stapletom lounge. 9: 00--dance, the Impacts,full-time university professors to the other country. regina south lounge.
3: 30--lecture, kathleen mulaney, wo"len in

Hong Kong--In a communique released in Hanoi, the North Viet­
communication and

namese government said that "every Vietnamese citizen has the right 
government, stepleton

and duty to fight the American aggressor anywhere on Vietnamese 
lounge.

soil." The statement, following a similar statement by China on 
3:30--lecture, sr. jean

Monday, was the closest either country has come to admitting that klene, prof. edward 6: 00--meeting, sailing club,North Vietnamese troops were fighting in South Viet-204 engineering bldg.
vasta, literature in 

nam. 
r 
r llltlli-IIIUIY 
~ 
Cat assumes throne May 11 pRIcED )PRICED)PRICED\'R;~IO
TO TO }stu·

~ 
SEll' Sfll'

In keeping with the ambivalent 
The royal announcement of the Tospirit of his short reign, SBP R. changing of the guard was con­Calhoun Kersten has decided, after cluded when Kersten noted, SELL! 
Low Priced! ..,,., ....., Mok• ..""can.

extensive consultation with Un­"Though the student body 
72 KACS • 73

candidate the Cat, that students presidency is not an office I'd wish have better things to do than suffer on a friend, Ed and I have not The Little Sexy European Car! 
through another election cam­really gotten along anyway." He 
MERCURY

paign. then left leaving only memories "I've decided to allow Cat and and wet footpridts from his her spokesman Ed Gray to assume shoeless feet. 


the throne on my Ascension, although I'll nominally stay in office until May 11 to insure that I'll have all of my term papers typed by the student government Uncandidate Cat secretary," Kersten proclaimed representatives.. last night. There will be no election. for 
He added, with an enigmatic three reasons, according to the grin, "Ed will immediately begin Prime Mover who plans to enter setting up government under a national politics in late May. He plan we've been working on since explained that, in his opinion, there my election. In addition H-Man would not be enough interest; and will fill the office of Uncandidate." that the candidates, time for an 
However, the resigning SBP said election and the number of he would present a new con­students who would vote are all stitution for a referendum by questionable factors. section leaders and off-campus Kersten was escorted into the 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Observer office by Gray and H­Man. Cat was reported by Gray to
An Tostal Picnic Tickets: Free be in heat and unavailable for 
Tonight,. Thursday, and Friday in comment. the Dining Halls, tickets for the However, she was said to be fifth annual An Tostal Picnic will pleased with the prospect of 
be distributed. Again the picnic moving her sandbox into the larger 
will be provided free, courtesy of SBP office after the abdication. H­the Dining Halls and the An Tostal 
Man did have a comment, "I've Weekend Committee. 
been behind this all along, and it's 


llllllilll.IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII about time I got a position."
' 
' Need some help
'r 
on your term papers?
'r 
I r 
We have Electric Typewriters $9-week Manual Typewriters $6-week 
r 
Adding Machines $9-week 
~ 
(Daily and monthly rates available) 
~ ~ TV Sets and Mini Refrigerators at 
r 
surprisingly low rates, too! Also 
, r r 
' 
roll away beds for that extra guest , on weekends 
~ 
r 
10% Discount with student I.D. 

2022 South Bend Ave. 272-5483 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
low cost dependable jet flights to EUROPE. Choose from more 
than 40 flights. NO AGE LIMIT. Complete travel information. Call 259-971 0, evenings 5-11. 


Chicago's First Jeweler· Established in 1837 
Ideal gift for graduation, grooms, roommates, wedding ushers 
Authentic Reproduction of Antique, Circa 1870 Sooner or later, everything comes back in style. First, the mustache. Now, the Mustache Spoo~. A great gift for your guy-whether he's a boy­friend, fiance, son, husband, father or even grandfather. With built-in mustache guard, no more sloshed or sopped mustache at soup time. Handsomely executed in heavy silverplate by 
R~ed & Barton, as was the 1870 original, this contemporary counterpart, 8" long, comes with a dashing red flannel "security blanket" that goes into the pocket for dining $ out occasions. Attractively, 
Also In 24k vermeil goldplate, $12.50 Add 5% Slate Tax for Illinois delivery Add 85¢ for sending beyond delivery area 
6 



C.D.Peacock 
Michael French, Campus Rep. 911 Grace Tower • Phone 1771 

--~----------­
Wednesday, April 12, 1972 the observer 
3 

Term paper companies to be sued 
By Jerry Lutkus Observer News Editor 
Ohio State University has begun the first legal action against in­dependent term paper writing companies. Two weeks ago they asked for and received injunctions against three companies in the 
Columbus-Youngstown area. The injunction was asked for by State's Attorney General William 
J. Brown on behalf of the Board of Trustees of the University. The action closed down Term Papers Unlimited, Easy Writer, and Education Term Paper Research Companies. 
A hearing for the defendants in 'he case has been set for April 20, But the implications of the action extend beyond a three-sided suit. Ohio State Lantern sources have stated that the University intends to prosecute students who have used the papers. 
Albert Kuhn, vice president for academic affairs. said any student found having turned in one of the service's papers could be put on probation or dismissed from the University. 
"If a student turned in any plagarized material and we find out from any source -including Term Papers Unlimited's files -he will be subject to the procedures and penalties of academic misconduct." 
Upon ordering the closing of Term Papers Unlimited, Franklin County sheriffs seized the com­panies file, but failed to retrieve 
.the security files. These files contain the names of students who have purchased papers and the professors to whom the papers were submitted. Officials have threatened a contempt of court charge if these files are not 
handed over. 
The files were taken from the office moments before the county sherrifs delivered the injunction. The company was notified by the news media who were alerted by the Attorney General's office. 
The restraining order prevents the companies from doing any further business and ordered the 
sheriffs to impound all files. The order also prevents any destruction of materials by the firms. 
The restraining order charges the thr~e companies with causing students to break OSU's code of conduct. 
"The conduct whereby a student in response to academic assign­ments prepared by the defendants, representing the same to be his own work. constitutes fraud against the University from which the defendants benefit in a material manner," the order 

McCarthy at LaFortune 
Charles McCarthy ex-director of Notre Dame's non-violence program. will visit the campus Thursday and Friday, April 13 and 14, to speak on his campaign for the United States Senate from Massachusetts. McCarthy will speak tomorrow at 8 
p.m. in LaFortune student center, on the second floor. 
Running as an Independent for the seat presently held by Sen. Edward Brookes, McCarthy's campaign is based upon two unusual ideas. He proposes to have the citizens of Massachusetts vote on the major issues that reach the floor of the Senate, perhaps six to twelve bills per year. 
Citizens could vote on a bill via 
the telephone by callinl! a 
telephone number for a YES or NO 
vote, and then dialing the digits of 
the voter registration number, 
social security number. A 
memory bank computer would 
check to see that the person had 
not voted before,in order to 
prevent fraud. 
The memory bank computer would then record the vote and would tabulate the results at the end of the day. 
McCarthy would bind himself to vote on the bill as the people had voted. 
McCarhhy believes that direct voting on major issues would be cheap and fraud free, and he stresses the political consequences of voting directly on issues by the citizens. 
"What is done to the middle class and poor in war by bombs and bullets is done to the middle class and poor in peace time by the in­difference of conscience of a Congress that is indebted to the wealthy for being in office and for remaining in office. An economy of artificial scarcity, or an im­moral income tax code can cause as much human suffering as a bullet. Let us begin to remove 
government from the control of the wealthy, the few, the seekers of power over people," McCarthy argues. 
Coupling his proposals for 
participatory democracy with 
direct voting, McCarthy believes it 
will provide people with the McCarthy must collect at least 56,038 signatures between April17­July 3. His staff hopes to collect many of the signatures on April25, when Massachusetts voters go to the polling places to vote in the presidential primary. 
"ability  to  respond  to  human  
suffering."  
In  order  to  get  on  the  ballot  

Steve Raymond of Pandora's books is organizing McCarhty supporters in the South Bend area. 
11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Co-ex dining Jist 
Wednesday, April12--Holy Cross & Lyons Thursday, April 13--Howard & Keenan Friday, April 14--Alumni & Zahm Saturday, April 15--Badin & Walsh Sunday, April 16--Stanford & Breen-Phillips Monday, April 17--Sorin & Cavanaugh Tuesday, April 18--St. Edward's & Grace Wednesday, April 19--Pangborn & Farley 
EditoriaI Staff: 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Jerry Lutkus SMC Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorials Editor: Jim McDermott 
Features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Ann Therese Darin 
Issue Staff: 
Nite Editor: Jack Frischkorn Ass't Nite Editor: Kathy Schwille Layout: IJim E. Brogan) Lefty Ruschmann 
Headlines: Marty Miller 
llllllllllllllllllll11 II HIHn Ill II 11111111111 InlliiTIIII 
. Due to technical errors, a picture m yesterday's edition was in­correctly identified. The picture that had been identified as "Friends of the Buffalo Five" is in reality. the Staff of the Rap Center In South Bend. The Observer apologizes for any problems caused. -ed. 
lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllll 
A Time to Celebrate SELF, your SELF Dance to the Music 
Soulful Music of the Impacts Wednesday April 12, SMC, 9:00-12:00 tuition $.50 SMC -ND ID REQUIRED 
SPECIAL ITALIAN NIGHT 
All Faculty members are cordially invited to attend and participate in this special event. 

PLACE: NORTH DINING HALL SOUTH DINING HALL TIME: 4:45 6:30pm 
charged. selves unavailable. The orders, 
The operators of the company however, were served and resulted claimed that their's was a service in a hearing delay from the not unlike that of Encyclopedia originally scheduled April 10 back Britannica. They view their to April 20. service as a research set-up. This has been the first legal ac-
Vice-President Kuhn termed lion taken against the term paper their argumnets "specious." companies. Two University of "Those businesses offer the ser-Michigan students, however, felt vice of writing an original paper on the pmch of University discipline any topic for a specific price." he m the professional term paper charged. controversy. Last November. 
The restraining orders against they submitted the same pur­Easv Writer and Education Term chased term paper to an American Paper Research could not be literature professor. served on Wednesday with the The Michigan Daily verified that order against Term Papers the two students have been placed Unlimited. Lantern sources claim on academic probation and failed 
t the operators made them-for the course. 
---~-=---~~~~~--------~ 

Regional Environmental Teach-In April 15 Sessions from 10-5 Admission -Free Life Science Center 

Freshman interested in applying for Chairmanship of next year's Sophomore Literary Festival are urged 
to contact 
Ray Funk311 Lyons, 7937 Before This Years Festival 
After Graduation then what~ 
Consider the Marist Brothers Lay Volunteer Program 
-Spend a year with us--stay as long as you like. -Work with young people in any one of 58 countries. For more information 

Tonight 7:30 Fish~r Hall basement lounge talk with A Notre Dame Graduate now in the program For more information call 283-1953 

~­
the observer Wednesday, April 12, 1972
4 
M 1 
INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER
THE 
John Abowd Jim Jendryk


OBSERVER 
Editor-in-chief Business Manager 
Don Ruane Bill Bauerle Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
News: 283-1715 EditoriaI: 283-8661 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer,
Business: 283-7471 :>n behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 


Celebrate-you? 
The organizers of the "Celebration of Self" at St. Mary's have assembled one of the finest collections of speakers to face this campus in year.;. It is unquestionably the best group of Women's Liberation speakers South Bend has seen. 
So why the poor turnout? An average of six people attended the afternoon sessions including one male. Sessions were combined because the speakers justfia bly did not want to address a group of three. The keynote speech, delivered by Maoux Considine, drew only 50 people. 
Today's topics include: --the possibility of remaining single, given by Linnea Vacca, a woman who shares household duties with her husband on an equal time basis. --feminine logic, a discussion of the question of sex differences in reasoning by Ann Clark, a professor of philosophy. --discussions of women in com­munication, governmnet, athletics, literature and the economy. 
Wednesday's finale is a dance in Regina South under new ground rules: singles preferred, couples go dutch. 
Obviously the problem is not a lack of quality or diversity in the presentation. People on both campuses are simply not taking advantage of the opportunity. Only a handful of students have any right to judge the "relevance" or "quality" of the "Celebration of Self"--those people who have attended at least one of the 
·sessions. Give the program a chance. Find out for yourself if the program has any value. 
It would be a tragedy if the effort ex­pended couldn't realize some of the potential awareness it was designed to produce. 
.. John Abowd 
Letters-----------perplexed 
r Editor: 14th letter--but quickly forwardd to other faculty members. TheYou mention in Friday's the poll of the faculty; that was the request for the hastily taken poll
editorial a a poll of the faculty's policy of the Executive Com­appar:mtly emerged from withinreaction to the March 14th letter 
mittee. That the Executive 
the Executive Committee itself.
alleging a crisis at Notre Dame. Committee acted beyond its The Executive Committee includes The poll is being taken by the authority seems clear; that two signers of the March 14thExecutive Committee theof authority, according to the ~y­letter; one of these is the Chairman 
Faculty Senate. You rightly note Laws of the Senate, is limited to of the Executive Committee.
the incompleteness of that polL preparing the agenda for Senate 3) Over the last week and a half,
And Professor McLane in his meetings and to administering the a rumor has been circulating
statement sensibly calls for a poll business and activities of the among the faculty to the effect that that permits the faculty to respond Senate. usur­Unconstitutional the results in the poll were runningon the separate points of that first pation of the Senate's function by 4to 1in favor of those substantially faculty letter. Such a poll, as the Executive Committee is, agreeing with the March 14th
~t~ne suggests, would have perhaps, to be looked as a minor letter. I have no way of knowing
~~~ed the tendency to have that legal impropriety; the 1more whether or not such reports on the
wildly flailing first letter become serious problem, the irony in 1this poll are tuue. I do question thethe focus of the various and sundry 
case, is that the democratic propriety of releasing (leaking?)
discontents on the faculty. 
procedures of the Senate and present resu!ts of a poll while the
There are some other aspects of democratic discussion in the Notre poll is yet being taken (note the
this poll that really perplex and Dame community were scorned by 
"bandwagon effect" that operates disturb me. the Executive Committee at a time in democratic politics). In two
1) I am told by a friend on th~ when these very issues were being instances, the rumor was traced toFaculty Senate that this body, raised by the March 14th letter. a member of the Executive
established to represent faculty Committee. 
opinion, was not convoked to 2) The brief note which t~e Obviously, I cannot identifydiscuss the March 14th letter or to Executive Committee sent along myself without embarrassing mydetermine how the Senate might with the poll to each faculty working relationships with some follow up on the letter (for in­member indicated that the associates on the faculty. I can say stance, what kind of poll was to be Executive Committee "has been that I am a faculty member who taken? Should the results of a poll asked to ascertain more fully the 
holds no administrative position. I be publicly released?). Rather sentiments of the entire faculty." write only to report on the 
than having convoked the Senate, Asked by whom? That i::. a procedure~ surrounding the the Executive Commmittee of the question many faculty have been current poll of the faculty. From 
Senate acted on its own and polled raising. It seems that the this point, we mui'~ forward into the faculty before opposition to the Executive Committee was not the future. letter could be publicly expressed. ·asked b.Y members "of the Ad-
No Senate discussion, no public mimstration or by a f...culty Perplexed
rebuttal in the press to the March petition from Senate members or 

SPRIN6 MEANS .SR llON rliliCMct.E:R. wARS ! 
-,,(U.,.. sPRING N.AHS 
~f'\·P\ClCS ~ 

1'1~111E, BUT SPiliMC..,l S STIL• fll£ TIME fOR ~. MIIN ! 

m11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 J;m MeDermatt 
The greatest line in The Graduate had to be when one of the "great 
successful businessmen" came and told the "youthful hero" the one word 
of advice for the future: "Plastics." A growth industry and a way of life. 
Great. 
The plastic life presents few real problems to anyone. Put on the nice 
plastic smile, recite the time-honored phrases of "concern" for your 
"fellow man," and be relevant. It's a common way tQ live, sheltered in 
the mask of "caring." It allows an appearance of living according to 
Christian and human values, but does not demand the effort that these 
life styles require. 
It's plastic to sit in your room and ignore reality, thinking that you are 
secure in this. Most people have talents that they have not discovered, or 
have never fully realized and used. And there is enough opportunity to 
utilize these latent talents in the world. 
Most college students do not see children at all. Perhaps when they go 
home, they'll put up with younger brothers or sisters, maybe cousins, or 
watch the play of the smaller kids on the block. But there are kids out 
here that need some care and affection. Big Brothers, tutoring, and work 
at the Children's Hospital have all attracted people from the Notre Dame­
St. Mary's community, but chances are that they are always need some 
help -even a few hours a week. 
There is no need to go off campus to find things that need doing. There 
are organizations on campus that don't get a lot of attention, but help 
make the place reasonable to live in. For instance, no one really notices 
the work that some of the Student Union departments do. We all see the 
major concerts that the Social Commission put on in the Convo or Stepan, 
but don't realize the work that went behind it. We can lament all the 
mistakes and late delivery of the campus phone directory last semester, 
but how many would care to do anything to help get it out earlier. 
No hall is without things that people must do, be it getting a few 
speakers in, helping someone with a course, or taking the time to know a 
person that no one really tries to know. Plastic tends to shield out others, 
especially if they need a real person. 
Taking off the plastic could start to ,mprove this place. For example, 
we could have more candid communication between the administration 
and everyone else, as well as between students. 
Administrators 

The recent faculty letter claiming a stiffled sense of community decision-making at Notre Dame, and the rebuttal that followed may not have been necessary if people were more real, less plastic images. The lack of true communication seems the most frightening aspect of the letters. The feeling of betrayal that spead around St. Mary's after the cancellation of unification plans may similarly have been averted if there was a great~r openness about the problems, the chances, and the reality ofthe merger jnstead of the absurdity that was presented. 
There are people who have reached out beyond the absurd limits that false life styles could impose. People do work for service organizations, kids do have tutors, things do get done. The "Celebration" of self at St. Mary's is an example of this. No one is getting any great credit for what is done, yet many have worked to give others the chance to live better than before. There is home and improvement in all these, hut unanswered challenges remain. 
Monday's Observer contained a letter asking for help for the inmate library at the Attica State Prison in New York. Whatever we may think of the prison revolt, we cannot ignore people that need help if they are to be any more than caged animals. Finding a few books that will never again be read or. used will not drain anyone, but can help there. 



Wednesday, April 12, 1972 the observer 
The following are short biographies on the three nominees for the Senior Class Fellows award. The

Ernest Bartell C.S.C. 
voting will take place on Thursday and Friday. 

Instructor of Economics, University of 
Ernest J. Bartell, C.S.C. 
Notre Dame, 1961-1962. Principles of Economics. 
Personal Data: Born: January 22, 1932 -Chicago, Illinois Status: Single Sponsored Work: 
Education: Director, Economic Analysis of Non­
-
Ph.D., Economics, Princeton Public Education in the United States for University, 1966 President's commisson on School Finance M.A., Theology, Holy Cross College under grant of $150,000 to begin in January 
(Washington, D.C.), 1961 1971. A.M., Economics, University of Director, Economic analysis of St. Chicago 1954. Louis Catholic School System, under $40,000 Bachelor of Philosophy, Finance, contract, 1969-1970. 
University of Notre Dame, 1953. Co-principal, analysis of Higher Education Needs in the Boston Area for Experience: Massachusetts Regional Planning President, Stonehill College, North Association, and State Board of Higher Easton, Mass., 1971-. Education under contracts totaling $45,000, 
in 1969-1970. Positions and Teaching Experience at the Co-principal, Analysis of low income University of Notre Dame: callampas in Valparaiso, Chile, supported 
Director, Center for the Study of Man in by Rockefeller Foundation 1968. 
Contemporary Society, 1969-1971 Director, Economic Analysis of Costs Chairman, Department of Economics, and Revenues of Catholic Elementary and 1968-. Secondary schools in the Archdiocese of 
Assistant Professor of Economics, 1966-Denver, for the Notre Dame Office for 1968 Educational Rsearch under contract of Associate Director, Center for the Study approximately $60,000, 1967-1968. 
of Man in Contemporary Society, 1968-1969 Co-principal, Analysis of Labor Force Associate Director, Program of Latin Characteristics in 16 urban slum Barrios in American Studies, 1967-1968 Cali, Columbia, funded out of $250,000 grant Chairman, committee on the Social from U.S. Agency for International Sciences, 1969-; Chairman, Committee for Development to the Notre Dame institute 
Black Studies, 1968-1969 for Population Research, 1967-1968. 
Member of University Committee on Design and measurement of National Education, 1969-; Advisory Council on Income Accounts for the island of Dominica Urban Studies, 1970-. for the Institute of Social and Economic 
Elected member: Student Life Council, Research, University of the West Indies, 1968-1969; Faculty Senate, 1967-1968. 1964-1965. Director, Notre Dame Student summer Social Work Project (CILA), 1966-Other Work Appointed an ex-officio member, Economic Consultant, New York 
various University councils and com­Governor's Commission for Elementary mittees. and Secondary Education, 1970-1971. E c on om i c .. Cons u 1 tan t , Teaching Massachussetts Legislative Committee for Graduate and undergraduate economic Non-Public Schools, 1970. development economics of education, and Chairman, Review Board, Master 
undergraduate intermediate micro Planning Project, Catholic School Board, economic theory. State of Hawaii, 1970 
Instructor in Economics, Princeton American Economics Association University, 1965-1966. Undergraduate and representative, Review Board for Revision graduate(Woodrow Wilson School) micro of School Accounting Handbook II, U.S. and macro theory, undergraduate economic Office of Education, 1969-1970. development. Economics Department in the Member -Board of Directors, King's 
Woodrow Wilson School of Public and In­College, Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania, 1969­ternational affairs. 1973. 

Charles Evers 
struggle to make it in society. In his
Charles Evers, mayor of Fayette, 
speeches he talks of love between the races
Mississippi was the first black man ever to 
preaching in the manner of the late Dr.
run for governor in that state. He ran 
Martin Luther King. He also says to
knowing he had a small chance of winning, 
students, "If you don't like the system,
but all the same willing to try. His life and 
come and help me change it. That's better
that of every black man is the same way: 
than throwing your life away because you're 
small chance to win but dedicated to try. 
mad at the world. Today's student is
Evers lost that election in November, 1971, 
yesterday's nigger." 
but his efforts reaped many victories in 
Evers recruits students in northern
other areas. 
colleges to come and help with registration 
For example, due to Ever's and John 
drives in Mississippi. They come in large
Lewis' voter registration efforts, the 
numbers and reap tremendous results. He
number of black voters in Missippi has 
also calls for a small effort by many in­
increased from 23,000 in 1964 to 307,000 in 
dividuals. For example, he says that "I
1971. The increase in black voters is making 
don't want no big fat contributions -I want a
Missippi's white politician consider black 
million people to send one dollar apiece."
people in their campaigns and in their ac­
Thus Charles Evers stands; a man who
tions while in office. This is something that 
gets involved and who personally invokes
people for years had tried and failed to do. 
others to do so too, a man willing to sur­
Evers, 49 years old, big and stocky comes 
mount any odds for justice, and a man who
from different stock than the ordinary 
stands up for rightousness.
politicial. He He once bootlegged liquor in a 
Evers is constantly winning over people
Funeral Home ambulance. Evers also ran a 
with his strong stands and persuasive
string of whore houses in Mannilla and 
manner. In one instance, whien he was
played center on the football team of Alcorn 
speaking in a jammed auditorium of 2000
A & M an all black college, and dropped 
whites in Mississippi, a woman up in front
policy for the Mafia in Chicago. But he looks 
began to mutter, "I can't love you. I can't
back on his past as proof of everyman's 
love you." Evers then looked at her and told 
shared humanity. He says, "I never did 
not begged her, "You gotta love me." ' 
anything white people don't do everyday." 
In stating his ambitions Evers said
Now Evers is the leader of a rising black 
"Since Medgar(his brother Medgar Ever~
political movement. He received the 
murdered by a white assassin in 1963)
unanimous nomination of the Misissippi 
died ... and Bob Kennedy and Martin Luther 
Democratic Party recognized by the 
King and Whitney Young, why I'm about the 
National Democratic Committee as the 
only one left. Somebody's got to show our
official state Democratic Party. The party 
young people it can be done. Somebody's got 
is predominately black. 
to do It. And I want to earn something. I
In his autobiography, Evers, the Fayette 
want people to believe me. You've got to
mayor tells the story of his hard climb and 
earn that." 
Visiting Lecturer and Consultant to teramerical Cooperation Program, 1966. Peace Corps Training Programs, Arecibo Puerto Rico, 1965-1969. ' Professional Organizations: 
America) Economic Association Participation in Conferences: Catholic Economic Association. Midwest Council of the Association for Presentation for National Conference of Latin American studies American Educational Association, 1971. 
Editor of conference report and director Paper for National Conference on School of conference of social scientists onFinance, 1969. 

"Research Interests of Social Scientists inPosition paper for National Symposium Projected Reform of U.S. Office of on Catholic Education, Washington, D.C., 

Education ~chool Accounting," sponsored

1967. 
by U.S. Office of Education, 1967.

Discussant for one session of 1966 Economics consultant for the NotreAmerican Economic Association meetings. 
Dame office for Educational Research,Workshop paper for Catholic In­

1967-. 


Daniel Berrigan 
It is said of n:ran that he gives meaning to the edge of a society in order to take a sharp his life in tw~rways: creating and caring. and critical look at it. Berrigan has gone to Creation is the proper concern of the poet. the edge of the abyss, he has peered into the Care is the proper concern of the social deep, dark, night and he has returned, like activist. Daniel Berrigan is a man of all prophets, to tell us that there is light not creation and care, he has united these two darkness in the abyss. Berrigan can only be most proper of human activities. The action understood if we see his life in this way. of Berrigan is particularly well known and Berrigan has seen the Dark Night of the needs no real elaboration at this time. Soul, he has been stripped naked, he no Berrigan's life is his greatest poem,. A longer lives in any illusions and thus in one Jesuit in the deepest tradition of Loyola he sense, he is already dead. Dan no longer moves freely among poets, dramatists, depends on the church, the state or the actors, writers, Panthers, lawyers, doctors, Movement to help him define himself or his and social activists of every conceivable actions, he is dead to all of that. Physically, type. No stranger to the intellectual world Dan is very sick, he'll be permanently some of his most important time was that damaged for the rest of his life. I recall his spent at Cornell in the late 60's. words: "some of us are paying dearly for 
If I were to write a standard biographical the illusions of others." Again he says "the sketch of Berrigan as I was asked to do the cost of peacemaking is a high one, few want task would be endless. I would like to ap­to pay it." And so the war continues, the 
_proach Berrigan in another way. people (priests, sisters, good friends) are Radicalism can be judged by its ability to carried away at political trials, the prison, ask the crucial questions in any given age. the pain, the loneliness, the doubt, the cheap The value of radicalism lies in the moral price of their lives error before them. Dan commitment not in the outward understands all this now, he no longer hopes manifestation alone. You can't judge in the church, the country, the universities, Da~el Berrigan simply_ ~Y fookitlg_ at his instead he has gone beyond the hope of particular deeds, rather It IS essential to see visible images, his hope is much deeper,his entire way of life as his action. There much more real than any hope that rests in are of course particular incidents that stand a time, space world. Essentially what we out in Dan's life: the time spent in France must see here is Dan's modesty. Only if with the worker priests, the exile to Latin you understand death or madness can one America in the early 60's for the study come to similar realizations. Dan says: "I of questions of war and peace, the founding feel responsible for a very small area of life, of the Catholic Peace Fellowship, the early I can only do what I can do." war protester, the beginnings of Clergy and Berrigan does not ask anyone to follow Layman Concerned about Vietnam, the him or even to model their life after his. He early work with Dorothy Dar and the does not ask us to imitate but only to Catholic Worker, and most importantly, the respond in the best ways that are available trip to Hanoi with Howard Zinn to bring to us. The paradox of Berrigan is that he is back captured American airmen. Berrigan a man always calling us to move ahead, he is later wrote of that trip: "quite simply and aleader always changing, he is a radical at unequivocally, we had graduated from the roots of change, challenging us to innocence." The innocence lost in Hanoi led respond with justice to present condition, to the draft board at Catonsville and from and yet -perhaps also he is a man who will that time and act, the life of Daniel Berrigan not chang~, always peaceful and steady, a has been history. Daniel and his brother conservative, a man calling us back to the Philip have now become international best American and Catholic tradition.. symbols of resistence to the American Maybe Dan Berrigan hasn't changed over presence in not only Vietnam but many the last ten years, perhaps only America other Third World countries. Recently the has changed. Berrigans were nominated for the Nobel The last thing that might be said about Peace Prize on indication of their standing Dan Berrigan is perhaps not the end pointin other countries. but only the point of real beginning. I think 
The many actions of Dan Berrigan, his one of the most significant events of our speaking, physical resistence and presence, time is the growing · dialogue between are only a part of his real life. Berrigan's radical activists who have undergone pr~mary resistence is his poetry, "the drastic changes in their lives over the past primary response to tyranny.'' Berrigan is several years, individuals who have lived on a writer of wide interest and diversity. the edge of the abyss and tested the limits of human endeavor and on the other hand "the human potential movement" · within
Daniel Berrigan in all his recent works psychology. One of Dan Berrigan's mosthas written out of a context of suffering. 
important works may turn out to be "TheH~ving .recently spent a lot of time working Geography of Faith." This book is a seriesw1th pnsoners I have become increasingly of conversations between Berrigan,· while aware of how difficult it is for most of us to underground and Harvard .. Childunderstand or care about issues which Psychiatrist, Robert Coles.

cause so mucn pain ior those who live in Dan Berrigan is a significant figure in ourrealities quite different from our own. The times, he went underground for two mainpoint at which Berrigan's life can be un­reasons: to learn how to pray again and toderstood is the point of suffering. I am "get reborn"', TO COME ALIVE AGAIN IN·convinced that at some point in time, we are THE TIME OF GREAT DEATH. Danall called to take a position either actively or Berrigan is perhaps a measure of our umes,by N:fault. There is a point in the time of a standard to help us see where we are at. .
everyone's life when he must say Yes or No He is a convict before society, for into the question of death that confronts a America in 1972 to stand for life and prayer society such as ours. One either shares in are indeed serious crimes: the ultimateand profits from the evils in society or• mockery of an arrogance and power whichone removes oneself enough from the know~ no limits, ~o sanity, no morality and particular way of life (death) in order to certamly very httle of human life andstand at the edge. It is necessary to stand at· humble prayer. 

t ARVN repels heavy Viet attack
I I 
~ 
I 
the observer Wednesday, April 12, 1972
6 
~ 
~ ~ by Fox Butterfield ~ <cl New York Times 
I 
Saigon, April 11--North Viet­I namese infantry and gunnersI today launched a series of heavy
I 
day-long assualts around Fire I Base Rastogne, , guarding the I mountainous Wl'stern approaches ~ to Hue, but were reportedly thrown I back after 102 men were killed. ~ A government armored column, ~ which has been trying for three I days to reach the besieged base to I bring out an estimated 100 South I Vietnamese wounded made little I progress as it encountered stiff I enemy opposition. ~ In the jungle-covered Central I Highlands, the North Vietnamese I were reported today to have I moved heavy, long range artillery 
pieces into position to fire on
I " 
I Kontum City where a major I communist attack has long been expected. Ten government
I 
positrOns near Kontum were
I 
shelled today, and at least one outpost, Firebase Yankee, was said to have been hit by the 140
t 
guns which the communists used
I 
with devastating effect in their
I 
offensive in Quangtri.
~ 
Heavy clouds, rain and fog
I 
continued to hamper American air
I 
strikes today over Quangtri and
~ 
the lower part of North Vietnam.
I 
But U.S. B-52 heavy bombers flew 
I 
29 missions inside South Vietnam -­11 of them near Kontum City -and American fighter bombers made 360 strikes. 
It was wJaely beueved in Saigon that yesterday's B-52 raid on North Vietnam, the first since 1967, had been on Vinh, an important railhead and storage center 130 miles north of the demilitarized zone. However, the U.S. command would not comment on where the raid had taken place. 
Hanoi radio made no mention of a B-52 strike on its territory either yesterday or today, prompting speculation that the North Viet­namese regime was embarrassea that its anti-aircraft defenses had failed to down one of the big, slow­moving bombers. American analysts here nave pointed out that 
the North Vietnamese recently began moving many of their Surface to Air Missile sites close to the demilitarized zone to protect their major offensive there, but leaving other parts of their country undefended. 
In Binhlong Province, near the Cambodian border, a massive South Vietnamese relief column of tanks. artillery and infantry drawn from Mekong Delta inched for­ward a gam today in their attempt to break through to the surrounded Fifth Division at Anloc. 
The government troops, with a brigade of paratroopers in the lead and the entire Twenty-First In­fantry Division in the rear, pushed 12 miles northward to the town of Chonthanh, 45 miles north of Saigon. They met little resistance from the 20,000 Vietcong and-
North Vietnamese troops of the enemy's fifth, seventh and ninth divisions whohave been besieging Anloc. An American adviser to the South Vietnamese paratroopers commented on the day's operation, "Whatever you may think of this, we are moving up the road, if that's the criterion of progress." 
American officials in Saigon, who have been pleased with the tenacious defense made by South Vietn1;1mese Marines and Rangers in Quangtri this week, are said to be gravely concerned over the intentions of the veteran com­
munist forces in Binhlong and in neighboring Tayninh Province. 
The enemy's fifth, seventh and ninth divisions have been in Cambodia since 1968 when they were driven out of South Vietnam by American troops and their reappearance at this time is taken as an ominous sign of Hanoi's determination to win a major 
Blood drive to be Friday
-.r 
17; and from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. cer l. Persons with with colds or 
Saturday, April 18.
Notre Dame and St. Mary's presently under medication may students will have the opportunity also be deferred. Donors must
Anyone between the ages of 18 next week to "give the gift of life" and 66 is eligible to give blood. wigh at least 110 lbs. as the Red Cross holds its first Exceptions include individuals No money will be paid for the campus wide blood drive here. who have -had yellow jaundice, blood, it is strictly a volunteer 
hepatitis, malaria, diabetes,
Red Cros~ representatives will matter. However, donors will have 
man facilities in Stepan Center history of heart condition, or any an unlimited free blood supply froom noon to 5 p.m. Friday, April kind of cancer <except skin can-available to them and their im­mediate families for the following year.
NO seniors receive 
Part uf the blood collected in the drive will go to the Notre Dame 
Fund, which afds any Notre Dame 

NSF fellowships 
Six University of Notre Dame seniors have been awarded National Science Foundation Graduate Fellowships, while another four received honorable mentions <judged qualified for NSF support is additional funds were available. l 
Notre Dame students among the \198 Fellows nationwide include: Timothy Augustine <mathematics) of Maple Heights. Ohio; Gene A. Aydinian <geochemistry) of Rock­ville. Md.; Steven Garavaglia <mathematics> of St. Clair Shores, Mich.; John W. Hickey (life science) of Wheaton, MD.; Robert 
E. Masterson (nuclear engineering> of Swoyersvill, Pa., and David J. Stelte (electrical engineering> of Springfield, Ill. 
Among 1,494 students accorded 
I l!,Mock convention 
All students interested in working for Hubert Humphrey in
r 
the Mock Convention and the In­diana Primary should attend a
I 
meeting at 7:00 Wednesday night at 361 O'Shaugnessy Hall. Further information can be obtained from Rich LaSalvia <ll77) or Dave Barrett 0857). 
! 
Delegation meetings Wednesday at lo p.m. -Minnesota, Alumni Hall 
I ' 
Lounge. Thursday at 8:30 p.m. ­
t 
South Carolina, Badin VintageI Cinema. 
t 
l 
victory. 
It is believed in Saigon that the communists may try to set up a National Liberation Front government(Vietcong) in the territory they have seized in sparsely settled Binhlong Province. 
The Vietcong Radio today asserted that a "revolutionary administration has been setup in36 hamlets in Binhlong · with a population of 30,000." 
Firebase Bastogne, 20 miles southwest of Hue, Vietnam's an­cient imperial capital, is con­sidered the key link in the city'S western defenses. It guards the enemy's traditional infiltration route from Laos through the Ashau Valley and then to Hue. 
Bastogne has been shelled nearly every day for the past two weeks, and though it is cut off by road from Hue, troops from the crack South Vietnamese First Division have continued to patrol outside its perimeter. 
Two other government outposts between Hue and Bastogne, Fire Bases King and T-Bone were at­tacked yesterday by troops from the North Vietnamese 324 B division. The attack on Bastogne is considered part of the com­munists' major drive to capture South Vietnam's two northernmost provinces, Quangtri, and Thuathien in which Hue is located. 
The norther front in Quangtri was reported quiet today, though the Saigon command said that 278 more enemy troops had been killed 
yesterday by marines and rangers in three clashes west of Quangtri City. The government gave its own casualties as four killed and 54 wounded. 
American officers, who have visited the northern battlefields, say that South Vietnamese claims of large numbers of enemy killed are reasonably accurate. But they say that government officers have 
student or his relatives. The rest will be distributed throughout theHonorable Mention were Herman country.
J. Bouma <mathematics) of In order to save time, donors areLynden. Wash., Kevin T. Corbett requested to make an appointmentCengineering) of Pittsfield, Mass., 
beforehand. Signups are beingWilliam Rakowski (psychology) of· held all this week, and interestedUtica. N.Y. and Lawrence A. 
persons may register by callingRohrer <engineering) of Mt. 
Pete Meade (8006) or Ann SmithProspect, Ill. 
(5482). 
PROOF OPEN 
OF AGE 
DAILY 12:45 REQUIRfD 
cbar<lene 
FOR TIN URST T/Mt·. Tllf.' START/./NI; 
rl/f \'{}Iff: VA OF Tllf: TR,t.\'S.\'f.XUAI. /\ I II/RICA. _.\ 0.\Cf. TAHOO S(JflHCT IS Vrlll; lAID 8.-IRI HROUGIIT TO /"/IE 
Cl\'f.\1 ·I SCRf:f.'\" ,\.\' IJ.\7-.' OF Till MI!S/" S//OCAJ\'1; C/.Vf.M.-1 TIC LfPf.R/1'\CFS OF Till \'Ell' DJ:C 1/lf." IT IS /riC 1.'11 ITS J\IPL/CATIOVS W/1.-tT IS ~1-1.'11' II'IIAT IS WOM.i.\1' C.4N IT Hf." lli.F/Nf."/l 4S I Uh' 01· .\.-ITL"RE. OR Ill" Tille· S/ .4SII OF _.\ SUR<:EO.\'S SC.·Il.PU. SF:f: C/11RI.ENf.". Ill:". S/1£. IT J'OH Tllf." FIRST fiME ON TilE MOTION PJ(Tt'RE SCREEN Til£ TRA.'ISSf."rt'M. IS f."XPWR£D /.'11 {)f.'PT/1 AS A L/VJ.\"1;, 
The Honeymoon 
is Over! 
' 
been slow to report their own casualties, even to their American advisers. 
Although the northern front has been qmet for two days since the NorthVietnameselaunched a series of massive attacks Sunday in renewing theiroffensive, there are still believed to be anywhere from 20,000 to 30,000 communist troops in Quangtri. 
In Kontum, the North Viet­namese have been expected te open another major front becanse they have infiltrated over 30,000 fresh troops into the area this spring, along with tanks and long­range artillery. Government patrols have reported finding dozens of newly built roads in the mountains west of Kontum City and many large storage sites. 






FRANKIE'S 

EVERYDAY DINNER SPECIALS 
Ocean Perch $1.25 
-10 oz. Rib-Eye Steak $1.50 1/2 Broasted Chicken $1.50 Includes Tureen Soup, Salad, Bread, Butter and Coffee 
Planning a Party? Frankie's has Special RateS for Student Partie~!
I -. 
PLACE"=-=M=-=E-=-=NT~BU=-==R~-E=--A~lJl 

MAIN BUILDING SUMMER EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS  I I  
FIRESTONE TIRE & RUBBER CO. Thursday, April 20, 1972  
Juniors in Business Administration and Liberal Arts  
For:  Sales Management Training Program  
Locations:  Nationwide  

Interested students may sign summer schedule in Room 207, Main Bldg., week of April 10. 
There will be a meeting for all delegates to the Mock Convention interested in nominating Senator Edward M. Kennedy for President, 
on Wednesday April 12 at 7 pm in the Fiesta Lounge of LaFortune 

L----------------------------------------------------~ 


Wednesday, April 12, i972 the observer 7 .. 
•

Wildcats outslug Irish nine, 9-6 
by Vic Dorr Bauer's long-distance shot Dick Nussbaum opened the ND 
Notre Dame's baseball team lost virtually wrapped things up, and first with a single to center, and its home opener to the Nor-winning pitcher Bob Artemenko, Pete Schmidt advanced him with thwestern Wildcats.yesterday, and who opened the game at shortstop :mother single to center. Rob 
the game --the eleventh of the year and moved to the mound in the Reschan then walked to fill the for the Irish --saddled pitcher Ed seventh, shut down the Irish bases, and Joe LaRocca scored Hrabcsak with one of the season's during tne final two -innings. Nussbaum with a line single to left. undesirable 'firsts.' During the early going, though, Schmidt tried to score on the same 
play, but was erased at the plate.
With the score knotted at 6-6 in Notre Dame was the team with the 
In the Irish third, Schmidt was
the top of the eighth inning, advantage. Junior Mike Riddell . 
hit by a pitch and moved up by
Hrabscak served up a gopher ball started on the mound for ND, and 
stealing second base. Right fielder 
to Wildcat cleanup hitter Bill was very sharp in his three-inning 
Dan Phelps singled through the
Bauer, and Bauer slammed the appearance. He allowed no runs 
middle, and Schmidt scored. ND
pitch over the fence in dead center and but three hits, and was able to 
made it 3-o in the fifth. La Rocca
field <385 ft.l. The round-tripper squirm out of the two jams that 
reached first on a fielder's choice,
was good for three Wildcat runs, faced him. 
advanced to second on a throwing
and it gave the visitors a 9-6 lead Riddell retired the Wildcat 
error by the Northwestern second
that stood up the rest of the way. leadoff man in the top of the first, 
baseman, and scored on Phelps'
But the tide of the game had but John Brooks reached on second texas league double.
turned against the Irish two in-baseman Tom Hansen's error, and 
Northwestern staged their
nings before the home run --the tried to score from first when 
comeback in the sixth inning at the
first HR allowed by the Irish pit-Artemenko doubled to the center 
expense of reliever Rich Eich, who
ching staff this season. field fence. Brooks was well ahead 
worked a pair of scoreless frames 
A four-run Northwestern rally in of the play as he rounded third, but 
before running into trouble. Eich,
the sixth inning erased a 3-o Notre .. he slipped during his turn and was 
who had trouble keeping the ball
Dame lead, and the Irish were tagged out on the relay from 
down, opened the sixth by walking
never able to regain their ad-Hansen to catcher Bob Roemer. vantage. ND tied the game twice Northwestern put two on with Bauer, the Wildcat cleanup man. • in the late innings: at 4-4 in the two out against Riddell in the third, Gene Helfrich flew out to center sixth and at 6-6 in the seventh, but but a deep fly to center field ended field, but Eich loaded the bases by the Wildcats,whose record now that threat. walking Ed Grzelakowski and stands at 3-4, were not to be The Irish posted single tallies in John McCarthy. caught. the first, third, and fifth innings. First baseman Dave Skarin 
singled to drive in one run, and then Bob Dekas, the 'Cats' third pitcher, lined a pitch into the depest corner of center for a bases­clearing double. Hrabscak Tom Hansen dropped a soft the 'Cat' third-sacker and out of
relieved Eich, and ended the in­
single into right field to score play. Phelps was awarded thirdning with a pair of fly-outs. 
Hrabscak from second in the base on the same overthrow, and bottom of the sixth, but the he came home when pinch-hitter
SMC b-ball Wildcats wasted no time in moving Mark Schmitz rolled a single back out in front. Bauer opened through the hole between third and the seventh by drawing a walk, short. 



OBSERVER 
tourneyslated
SPORTS 
moved to second on a fielder's Hrabscak, who was tagged with Girls interested in entering choice, and scored on Gr­the loss {1-1), retired the first two teams in the SMC basketball zelakowski's siingle. The second men to face him in the eighth. But 


tourney to determine the school's Northwestern run of the inning he walked Brooks, surrendered a representative in the annual An came when Tony Iarocci, who single to Artemenko, and then Tostal game with the varisty must replaced Schmidt at short (injured threw the big one to Bauer. submit their team rosters today or ankle) bobbled a throw on a The Irish collected 14 hits during tomorrow. double-play try and allowed the game, and they were led by 
Sign-ups will be on. a first-come, Helfrich to score from third. Dan Phelps (who had three) and first-serve basis. Only the first ND tied it for the last time in the by Dick Nussbaum, Pete Schmidt, two teams from each of the SMC bottom of the seventh. LaRocca and Bob Roemer (two apiece.) halls will be allowed to enter the walked, and Phelps lined a single Notre Dame will take its 6-5 tournament. into right-center field. LaRocca record to Athens, Ohio, this 
Rosters should be turned in to 102 tried for third on the play and weekend for a two-game set with Fisher Hall between four and five scored when the relay skipped past M.A.C. po~er Ohio U. o'clock, or they may be submitted by calling 1879, today and Thur­sday. 
This year's competition, to be conducted in Angela Hall this coming weekend, will be run by three Notre Dame students, Carmen Maciariello, Jim Sweeney 
and Butch Wade. 
STUDENT-FACULTY PLAN 
FLY-DRIVEQ 
~o~~!~~e 
plus car for summer For Free Folder write: 
Car-Tours in Europe, Inc. 555 Fifth Ave.,N.Y.10017/697-5800 
NllffiC __________ 
/,dr!ress _________ _____Tel.._____ 
Crash coming up! Notre Dame's Pete Schmidt barreled into Nor­
D•dparting on for__days
thwestern catcher Mitch Nelson but the Wildcats' sturdy backstop held 
0 Student 0 Teacher 0 Lease 0 Buy
his ground. and the ball,retiring Schmidt in a close play at the plate. I 
MAGICIANS OF BASKETBALL 
Friday, April 14 8:00pm Athletic and Convocation Center N D and SMC Discounts 
Ticket pr'ces $4.50--No discount $3.50 Purchase for $2.50 
$2.50--Purchase for $1.50 
Must present I D Card for discount at ACC 

NEW AD DEADLINE All ads must be in by 1:00 the day before publication New office hours 1O:am -S:pm M-T 
• 

1O:am -2:30 pm Friday 

[ I 
Wednesday, April 12, 1972

8 the observer 
! 'Fail ~afe • term papers unsafe 
by Jim McDermott 

"Term Papers! We have them ­all subjects ...'Send for your FREE descriptive catalogue of 1,300 quality research papers ... " 
This type of advertisement began appearing in college newspapers across the United States two years ago. Term papers, once the student's nightmare, have become a profitable business. They might be sold by a small co-op near the University of California at Berkeley, or a large corporation based in Boston. 
A problem became obvious last semester when the large number of papers sold overwhelmed the "fail-safe"· systems that the companies use to prevent issuing the same paper to two students in the same courses. 
Duplicate papers have been accJ<lentally submitted in courses

• 
at the University of Michigan and Harvard University. According to the Harvard ' Crimson, a graduate student was suspended for a year, and an undergraduate was ex-

Siniths lead SMC seminar 
by Stan Podlasek 
Ann and John Smith led a thought-provoking seminar en­titled "Women, Abortion, and the Law" yesterday afternoon in Stapleton Lounge as part of SMC's Celebration of Self Festival. The program was attended by a dozen students and several faculty members. 
Several brief opening remarks were made by the third year law student at N.D., and his wife, an SMC biology major, regarding the legal rights of the human fetus. A concencus, of the participants, found it inconsistant that various inheritance laws concidered an unborn child an individual from conception while no homicide law permits prosecution of individuals killing babies ahlf emerged from the womb at child-birth which is legally an abortion.

.,.. When is the fetus a human being: from condeption; from birth; from 6 to 8 weeks <beginning of elec­trical brain impulses); or from 16 weeks (limit on legal abortions)? Does a human fetus have a soul at conception? These and other questions were presented to which no one clamied 
Ecology teach-in Saturday 
An ecology teach-in_ will be sponsored by the Biology Club on Saturday, April 15. The teach-in will be in the Galvin Life Science Building Auditorium startin at 10 a.m. The event will cover the ecology question from the population and economic angles, . and look into environmental law, and air, land and water pollution. Andrew Stodeard from the Environmental Protection Agency will open the day's events. Following Stodeard, Dr. Rebort Mcintosh of the biology depart­ment will speak on land ecology. The afternoon session will open at 1 p.m. when a representative from the Wheelbrator Corporation will speak on air pollution control devices. The corporation produces these devices. Drs. Erhard Winkler and Mark Tenney will speak at 2 p.m. on water pollution. For the duration of the afternoon,

• Dr. Thomas Poulson (biology> will speak on population, Dr. l"rank Jones (economics) will relate the economic implications of pollution, and Dr. Michael Mcintire (Law) will talk on environmental law . 
.. 
pelfed for handing in identical papers f~r ~ course~-­
. T~e Michigan Dally reported a s•m•lar c~se last No_vernb_er. Two students man AmeriCan hterature class . were caught when they submitted . the same, P.aper o~ Henry Dav1d Thoreau s. Wa_Iden 
Both students were failed m ~e course_ and placed on academic pro~~t!Q!!, ____ . -~ ~-_ . ---o-ne of the students contacted the paper an~ said she had paid ~17.50 to ~r~te-On, a . national orgamzabon, for a f1ve-page "original" paper. Write-on which is based in East Lansing, Mich., reportedly sells 1~,000 pa~es ea~h week through 1ts offices m Michigan, Ohio, and Pennsylvania. 
Th~ owner and manager of the syndicated system, Art Harges, was su:prised by th_e duplication, accordmg t~ the Dally. ~·I ~on't know how 1t colffil llappen, he said. "Our system is fail-safe." 
Notre Dame and ~t. Mary'~ ~ave not had such a widely-publicized inci~ent, ~ut ~nowledge of the services IS wide-spread. Ad­vertising in the Observer and ca~pus.. flyers have_ made the avallab1hty ?~~~ntten papers 
to have an answer. 
Legalization of abortion was seen by some as a means of protecting the mother, but proposing counselling and professional help which is currently unavailable , were considered more important. 
The S'mith's succeeded in their attempt to "make you aware of how to approach the issue, "by observing that abortion is no a problem to look at as a taboo which must be outlawed, but a social problem that must be dealt with in 
John Smith
a rational mature manner. 


JIM HIBSCHMA PONTIAC 
301 LincolnWiiY E. Mishawaka 255-4771 
If there's one time you need a friend... 
... it's when you seek employment. That's our 
business. When you are seeking employment or a 
step-up from your present job, visit us. You'll 
become involved with people who understand your 
problem. And can do something about it. That's 
the key. Do something about it. Lo"k us up in 
the White Pages. Now. We're certain you'll 
make a friend. And so will we. 

World's Largest Profeasional Employment Service 

~­

COME SEE METRO AND ASK ABOUT OUR SPECIAL PURCHASE PLAN FOR COLLEGE GRADUATES 

~bvious. · The Observer now refuses such advertising. 
While the University has not moved against the services or the advertising, professors have started precautionary action of their own. 
"I don't think that one of those papers would work in one of my courses," according to one history professor. "I require something different in the papers a specific angle or approach that I want to see. If the paper isn't written with that angle in mind it won't be 

acceptable"  he add~.  
Other professors  are  requiring  
several  short  papers  or  book  

reports rather than a single long paper. 
Student views of professionally-written pape-rs vary. Many sa1d they understand why som~{)n_~ would want to use the papers, but would frown on their use. Most remembered long papers that they had done and said they would feel cheated if another student had gotten the same mark for a plagiarized paper. 
Another reason that students may not utilize the services is the high cos~ For exa.!?ple, Write~n will charge 2 dollars per page tor Boston and California are studying "used" stories on file and $3.50 for the problem. . . 
"custom written" papers. One_le~al qu_est~on was opened m The legal ramifications of the the M•ch~gan mc•dent. One of the controv~~ are not yet clear. The students mvolved reported that she 
-California legislature was urged to was assured that there was no outlaw the companies in the state. c~ance tha~ yh~ would" be Some college papers have refused discovered usmg ~e pape~s ...If I advertising for ·them, others can sue them, Ill do Jt, she continue in commented. 
In the heart 
·of downtown ·(J.Hf~N(J( South Bend J~6j_ 
GOOD FOOD AT MODEST PRICES 
·Sea Foocl~ leasant-­surroundings 
CLOSED MONDAYS 
Daily & Sunday 
11 am till 9 pm 
Saturday 
11 am till 10 pm 







