-------------------------------------------~--------~-~---.----------------------­
, 
• ,'! 

On The Inside 
Campus McGovernites react to Nixon landslide ... page 2 
Scenario for revolution at NO .... paae s 


serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 
Thursday, November 9, i972
Voi.VII No.45 

Inserts needed to correct errors 
Directories delayed again 
by Patty Shea Staff R£>porter 

Long-awaited Notre Dame student direc­tories arrived this week but will be held from distribution to students until inserts correcting errors and omissions are readv according to Bob Alden, Assistant Student 
Union Services Commissioner. 

Listings for off-campus Notre Dame students and the entire Saint Mary's student body missing from the present directory must be printed separately and inserted into the books before they are distributed. "These corrected directories should be available in the next week," Alden predicted, "if nothing 
else goes wrong.'' 

cooperation lacking 
Citing slowness and a lack of cooperation from university clubs and organizations as the man reason for tht:!ate appearance of the directory, Alden explained that certain sections of the directory did not reach the publisher in time to ve printed and were omitted. · 
Missing items included a front section on student activities, campus clubs, and activity calendar as well as a final section of all Saint Mary's College listings. "This was not in­tentional," Alden said, "I am not sure what went wrong." 
everything has gone wra:zg 
Describing his job of arranging for the student section of the directory, Alden said, "It seems like everything that could has gone wrong this year. I had no cooperation from the clubs and organizatons on campus in getting the information for the student section together. This caused the delay in getting 
{'Vetything to the publisher on time." 
In addition to the Student Union, the ad­
ministration also assists in the preparation and distribution of directories to the faculty and Notre Dame staff, according to Joseph O'Brien. director of the personnel Office. 

publishers changed 

Noting that the two groups decided this vear to change to another publishing com­pany. Enterprises of Indianapolis, O'Brien ('m phasized that the change was not the cause of the ommissions. 
"This company puts out directories for both 
Purdue and Indiana University .jThey do a 
beautiful job," he comm~rited. He explained 
that the decision had been reached in view of 
the numerous typographical errors and long 
delay last year's directory experienced. 
"We felt this new publisher would insure 
more accuracy and a more prompt delivery," 
O'Brien staited. 


mistakes eliminated 

Typographical mistakes are eliminated by 
a photographic printing process, according to 
O'Brien, computerized tapes of names, ad­
dresses, and telephone numbers were made 
at the N.D. computing center early in Sep­
tember. They were then sent to the publisher 
where they were photographed and printed. 
O'Brien had no comment on the omissions 
that appeared in the directory. 

Under a contract which allows six weeks for 
publication work after all information was 
ready, Notre Dame recieved 10,000 copies of 
the directory free of charge. The 7publisher is 
allowed to sell all advertising contained in the 
directory, according to Alden. 

Recognizing student concern over the delay 
in distribution of directories Alden concluded, 
"We're working on the inserts and hope that 
this will all be cleared up in a few days. 

Editorial: fixing the directory 

Commissioners approve 

These corrected directories should be available in the next week. 
•••see page 4 


hall funding, 
cabinet, and name appeals board rep 
by Con nit' Grt> i-wf' 
Starr Rrporter 

The Student Government Board of Com­missioners approved the committee for the distribution of Hall Life Funds (HLF), a student representative to the University Appeals Board, and Student Government cabinet members at their meeting yesterday. 
The distribution of $5,100 in HLF will be handled by a committee consisting of Steve Jeselnick, executive coordinator of Hall Presidents Council <HPC>, HPC chairman Butch Ward: Ron Paja, president of Fisher, Kevin Griffin, president of Grace; and Fr. Andrew Ciferni, rector of Holy Cross Hall. 
Student Government designated $5,100 to the HLC for hall improvements at a previous neeting when they appropriated the Student Government budget. 
Dave Laskt was appointed one of three student representatives of the University Appeals Board. Tge Appeals Board enables suspended students to appal to the University Judicial Boatd headed by Fr. Riely. 
Greg Smith, judicial co-ordinator recom· 

cabinet members Mike Hess, executive co­
ordina~::--; Michael Marget, treasurer; 
James Clarke, research and development; 
Edward Ellis, academic commissioner, Mark 
Wilcox, hall life; James Roe, public 
relations; Greg Smith, juicial co-ordinator; 
Robert Sauer, off campus; and William 
McLean, ombudsman. 
The board also explored the development of a new investigating committee. Student Body Vice-President Dennis Etienne stated that "a committee to investigate university ripoffs" is exploring the inflation of bookstore prices, the location of more economical substityte stores in South Bend, and pricing in th4e Huddle. 
Etienne also announced that the Committee on Unorthodox Pirateering will soon report its findings on ·surveys concerning unfair student-business practices. 
The m{'eting of the Board of Commissions was atgended by Dennis Etienne; SLC representatives Matt Cavanaugh, Jim Hunt, and Anthony Abowd and Chris Singleton representing HPC chairman Butch Ward. 
.. 

Dennis Entienne: "committee to investigate university ripoffs." 
mended Laskt io; appointment. The three ·students will rotate representation at meetings of the Appeals Board. _ the board approved Student Government 


the observer Thursday, November 9, 1972
2 

warld briefs 
<c> New York Times 
\

Washington-President Nixon announced that his first order of business followine his overwhelming victory at the polls would be a "significant" 1 realignment. of his staff and the bureaucracy. The announcement was maae after the President has conferred with the senior staff aides, Cabinet members and agency heads. He then flew to his home at Key Biscayne, Fla., where the changes are expected to be discussed. 
New York-By decisively re-electing President Nixon a Democratic Congress, the American voter delivered a mixed mandate along· with fresh evidence that he remains in the center of the political spectrum. Nixon's personal triumph was virtually total. He swept 49 states, losing only Massachusetts and the District of Columbia, winning 521 electoral votes out 538. 
Saigon--American B-52 bombers set a record for concentrated bombing on a single South Vietnamese province in one day,, ·according to the United States Military Command in Saigon Quangtri province was the target. But during the same 24-hour period, United States strikes over North Vietnam were at their lowest number since the current bombing campaign began, reportedly because of a typhoon which cut visibility. 
Saigon--The 38,500 South Korean troops in Vietnam, at the behest of the United States and South Korean Governments, have been effectively retired to their rear bases and have stopped combat operations, ac­cording to their Saigon headquarters. They and the Americans still in South Vietnam would be required to withdraw within 60 days of the signing of a peace agreement. 
an campu• taday 
3:30 Civilisation film, 17th Century Northern Baroque, EEngineering Auditorium 
8:00 
Lecture JeannShepard, librarysAuditorium 

8:00 
Benefit Concert for draft defense trial, Edward Sheehy, Regina Auditorium 

8:00 
Discussion Breaking the Law -Program in Non-Violence, Robert HRhodes,120 Hayes­Healy 


9:00 Meeting, Charismatic Prayer Meeting, HolysCross Hall 

at nd-smc 

y·vp jubilant 

McGovern backers shocked 
by John Culligan Staff Reporter 
Yesterday was a day of depression and shock for those who worked for the Students for McGovern organization. AI Cramer, chairman of the organization, said that the group was terribly disappointed by the election results. 
Meanwhile the Young Voters for the President held a small victory celebration last night. The chairman for ND-SMC, Bruce Callner, said that he was very much pleased with the results. 
Cramer stated he had been convinced that McGovern would win or, at least, be in a very close battle. The final results, he con­tined were a complete shock. The factor that hurt the most was that the results were universal. President Nixon gave a strong showing across the whole country, which was unexpected, he added. 
He said that there was one bright spot in yesterday's elections and that was that the Democrats were 
able to keep a strong grasp on Congress. Cramer continued that he had been worried about the prospect of President Nixon in office without the worry of an upcoming election. But, since the Democrats have a majority in Congress, Cramer added, the President will be kept under a type of control. 

~ 
Even though his organization is 

r 
"down," Cramer said that they are going to bounce right back. "There is too much in this country for us to do to let one setback hold us down.'' 
Hopefully, Cramer wants to keep the organization together anq. is going to try to get the group af­filiated with· the Democratic coalition. Because he is a senior, he hopes to help those who take over the group to keeping it together. 
"It is important to hold it (the group) together because there are some important congressional and senatorial races coming up in the next few years." he added. 
Callner, as he said before the election, expected a significant victory, maybe a landslide, for the president. However, he did not foresee a landslide oif the magnitude that occured. He said this victory reflects that the people are behind President Nixon~. 
Callner was pleased with what his group achieved. He felt that they did a good job in campaigning for the President and also in getting people to go to the polls. On Election Day, the group made phone calls and canvassed in order to get all voters to the polls. 


r 
, r ~ 
, 
s H u L A
,r 
,I 
It wouldn't be right if
' 
H 
you weren't flying high 
for Air Force, would I•t?. 

u 
ESCAPE TO: 
L 
A 
~ 





5 H u 

JVitc C/ul 
2B02 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, _MICI-:f~GAN 49120 _PhOI)e 683-4350 
L A 
'S 
H u 



L A 'S 

The amount of ticket splitting indicates that the people were concentrating more on the man that was running and not the party that he was representating, Callner added. The ticket splitting also showed that the other Republican victories were not directly attributed to "the President's coattails." Evidently, well thought voting was excercised by all the people, Callner added. 
"During the next four years, we will see more concentration on domestic issues by the President and his aides," Callner added. With the war coming to an end ir. the near future, Mr Nixon will be able to concentrate more than ever on domestic problems, he con­tinued. "The next four years will be very productive," Callner finished. 
The Observer is published daily d\Jring the college semester except vacations by the students of the L'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Sub­scriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester ( 14 per year) from The Ob­'erver, l<ox Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class postage paid, Notre 
Dame, Ind. 46556. 

COFFEEHOUSE 
with  
Pete Snalce Bill & Jaclc  Buclc & John Bob Thomas & Milce Wallce  
FRI. NOV. 10  9-1  am  Adm. 50¢  

RATHSKELLAR (basement of La Fortune) 

GOT LONG HAIR? 
WANT TO KEEP IT? We realize getting a haircut can be a traumatic experience. Ask for one inch off and they take two. 
If.your tired of all.that, may we suggest calling M1ss Carot next t1me you need a trim. 

m~t.ra 
HAIR DESIGN STUDIO, INC. 2010 SO. MICHIGAN ST. SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
288-1211 
Tues-Sat. Call for Appointment

'------------------------_.J 

If you thought after shave lotions were just to smell good, that's only half the story. After shave lotions help heal nicks and re-establish the skin's proper acid/alkali balance after a shave. (Bet you didn't know that, did you?) 
But smelling nice is, after all, the nicest thing about finishing off a shave. So why not smell great? 
English Leather®has three ways to accomplish this. English Leather Regular, Lime and Timberline!!<. In After Shave or Cologne. 
So that even if you do use an after shave just to smell good, you'll smell better than just good. 
ENGLISH LEATHER MAKES IT A LITTLE NICER TO FACE THE DAY. 

3

Thursday, November 9, 1972 the observer 
McGovern impact to be felt in future decisions 
by Ann Therese Darin 
Campus News Editor 

Although George McGovern lost his bid for the presidency on Tuesday, members of Notre Dame's political science depart­ment believe that his impact will continue to significantly affect most future Democratic Party decisions. 
In a re-cap of the presidential l'lection, Professors George Brinkley, John Roos, and Howard Hf.'iter yesterday discussed McGovern's future affect and the future of the two parties during Heiter's afternoon "American Political Parties" class. 
As a person, Roos felt McGovern would become a statesman-like politician "But will not try to be a spokesman for the party." But Hoos and Reiter believer, however, that McGovern's followers could affect Democratic Party policy for some time. 
"I think David Broder of The Washington Post was right a few weeks ago when he said the next president will be the Democrat Gf.'orge McGovern gives his support to. What he has done," Reiter said,"is to legitimatize that faction <the McGovernites) so that they will have to be included in any future coalition." He equated the necessity of including McGovern supporters in future Democratic coalitions with inclusion of organized labor supporters. 
Because several students seemed to misunderstand this analysis, Roos rephrased the concept. ''Not that the McGovernites will remain in control of the party or that a McGover-type will be nominated in 1976," he explained. "They have been legitimatized as one part of the new coalition. Here in South Bend. the local party leadership will have to consult the liberal wing of the party on decisions now." 
If House majority leader Hale Bogs, whose plane disappeared in Alaska, is not found, Profs. Reiter and Roos concurred in a prediction that Congressman Tip O'Neill <Mass. land John Brademas <Ind.) will vie for the position. Speaking on the Democratic Party restructure, PReiter warned "Jean Westwood had better look for other emplo;ment. They'll look for somebody else. Larry O'Brien, who is tactician, would be good." 
Democratic voting patterns may shift slightly left since many Southern Democrats will not return to Washington in January, Reiter commented. 
In analyzing the Republican victory, all participants in yesterday-s tow-hour re-cap described the win as "a personal victory for Nixon, not a party victory for the Republicans." 
They disagree on which factors determined the landslide. 
"From the average person's point of view," asserted Brinlley, ":here was no difference between the two candidates' views on foreign affairs. But, most of the ('}ectorate saw great differences between the policies on domestic issues." 
Roos countered with the opinion that most people viewed McGovern as unpatriotic, while 1\ixon was depicted as the . proponent of peace with honor. "President Nixon's coattails only extended strongest where there were the greatest number of social issues." he added. He cited Democratic views in Colorado, 
South  Dakota,  while  the  
Republican  took  Virginia  and  
Michigan.  

Most of the participants agreed yesterday's landslide could signal a dissociation of regional and presidential candidate voting. 
According to Roos, Tuesday's Republican vote could signify two new trends in American politics. "It could show the dissociation between the type of things people look for in a presidential candidate as opposed to the Senate. On the other hand, what's happening in '72 has separated party regional and local concern from national party figures. Another thesis would be if there is some spread in state 
percentages of Nixon vote 71-72-73 ,...-------·----------------------~ 
per cent in the South dropping
down to 59-60-61 per cent in the Northeast maybe we will see more regional bloc voting."
As a result of Tuesday's election, Reiter speculated Hugh Scott current Republican minorityleader, may lose his post. "Many of the people leaving the Senate, such as Margaret Chase Smith, supported Scott in his tight race 



SBVP elections on Nov. 17 
h~· 1\lat'l)' 1\lillt"r Staff Ht•pnrt.-r  
The St. Mary's Assembly unanimously  Student voted  to  

hold the school-wide Vice­Presidential elections Friday, November 17 at their weekly meeting. Yesterday, Susan Welte, former Vice-President of St. Mary's student body has filled the presidential post, as provided by student government constitution, due to the resignation of Jean Seymour. 
"We are losing student 
~epresentationon certain assemblies and councils because of the vacated Vice-Presidential spot," W('lte told the assembly, "for this reason we should hold the elections as soon as possible." 
Barb McKiernan, St. Mary's Student Affairs Commissioner, will supervise the elections. Nommations will be accepted starting today, and all nominees 

HELD OVER Open 7:00 

must either be a junior or senior. More details concerning where and when the ballots may be cast will be announced in the near future. 
The Assembly also voted to appropriate 100 dollars to the St. Mary's Tennis Club. Judy Mardoian represented the newly formed Club and explained that they practice at the indoor tennis courts in Mishawaka one hour per week. Mardoian mentioned that the Club will play other schools, the first match being Friday. November 17. "Any St. Mary's student is eligible to play with the Club," said Mardoian. 
Janis Tabb, was elected t>y the assembly to the newly created office of Day Student Com­missioner. "The Day Student Commissioner will attend the Student Assembly meetings 
representing  the  interests  and  
desires  of  St.  Mary's  day  
students." said Welte.  

The final item of attention for the Assembly concerned the Bangladesh Feat, Director of Food Services, Crawt'ord Cassewell asked me to see how the Assembly felt about a Bangladesh Feast which would be held 
Wednesday evening, November 15 in campus dining halls throughout the country," Welte reporrted. "The feat will feature typical Bangladesh food, and donations will be accepted for the underprivileged Bangladesh people," she added. 
The Assembly favored the "least" and appointed Jackie Eickholt. Nancy Dupray and Ellen Hanahue to work in con­n<'ction with Casewell. 
PEP RALLY 

TONITE!! 
BEHIND FLANNER TOWER Live Entertainment Begins at 6 pm 
featuring 
"Country Scum" 

R.ally at 7:15 
featuring 

Coaches Stock & Murphy Ken Schlezes & Mike Creaney 
Cheerleaders 
* Lt. Tim McCarthy * (Indiana State Police) *The Naked Klunker* (Successsor to the Kahuna) 

M. C·. KID ZERO ! ! ! 
with Baker ot Tennessee, a few years ago," he recalled. "Scott got some support because he was older than the young Baker." 
Forecasting the Republican Partv's future. Reiter added the future will depend on President 1\ixon's popularity at the end of his second term. "It seems that the bigger they ?(presidents) have been winning lately, the harder they have been falling. Look at Johnson," he said. 
Vice President Spiro Agnew's prospects for the GOP '76 presidential nomination will rest largely on the success of President Nixon's policies, Roos predicted. 
Services Commission Presents 


Chicago-London· Chicago 
$180-·COMPLETE 

Leave May 21 Return June 8 
OPEN TO All STUDENTS, FACUlTY & IM­
MEDIATE FAMilY OF ND-SMC 
Sign-ups NOW 
Travel Bureau 12-1 
S. U. Ticket Office FIRST COME FIRST SERVE 

r.·red of Gettl•ng Vour Hal·r
1 I 
w· d 0 t?

Ipe -. 
U • Is it Sick? Is It Damaged? Is It TangIed? 
Does It Need shaping up? ;~t 
"let Sue style your hair." 





We solve long hair problems I 

All Services By Appointment 

Uhe WinJjammer 
HAIR SlYLING FOil DISCRIMINATING MEN & IIOYS 
Phone 232-6622

1637 lincoln Way W. ..Closed Mondays , 
Great artists, great music­
budget-priced on Victrola Records 

Immortal Performances noweven more priceless at our low Victrola prices. 

RCII ncnRecords RCII 
Our price $1.86 

THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
! 
'­
,
, 
1 
., 
1 
1 
, 
• 
, 
,1 
~ 
~ 
~ 
~ 
.., 
1 
~

, 
1 

,I 
• 

, 
, 




Dpinian






THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
The Morning of 

John Abowd Dan Thornton Editor-in-Chief Business Manager
NEWS: 283-1715 EDITORIALS: 283-8661 


Election Night

Don Ruane BUSINESS: 283-7471 Joe Butler Executive Editor Advertising Manager 
jim ferry 

Thursday, November 9, 1972 
Dear Chris, I'm not in a good mood by any means, but I'm not unusually depressed, as might well be expected considering the circumstances 
and all. I held no pretenses that McGovern would win today, so I wasn't too disappointed as I listened to the election returns tonight. It 



The Directory. 
The 1972-73 student directory for the University of Notre Dame is finally out but we won't see the final product for at least another week while supplement is prepared listing the phone numbers of some 800 to 1000 students whose numbers are not currently listed. 

To further confuse the situation the addresses of every on-campus student have been omitted. The explanation for these two foul-ups is complex and it requires some knowledge of the workings of the printing business. 
Printing the directory 
First, the directory is printed with an offset process. This is the same method by which The Observer is published each day. The physical requirements of an offset process are relatively minimal­the printer needs clean black-on-white copy from which he can make the necessary negatives and plates for his press. 
If the university provides the printer with a clean computer print-out of the student enrollment (including all the information that should be included in a directory), and if the print-out is properly formatted, it can be reproduced directly. Last year, Registrar Richard Sullivan reprogrammed the output format of the student listing so that it met the technical requirements of direct offset reproduction. (The Registrar's office has the course booklet printed directly from computer print-outs. Hence, the office is very familiar with the technical requirements.) Last year, however, the printer typeset the listing instead of reproducing directly. He was replaced this year. 

Unfortunately, the Indianapolis outfit failed to use the computer listing directly. Instead, they used a hybrid IBM process which typeset the directory from a computer tape of the student listing. Nice, but not nearly fast enough. 
Slow down 

The method of printing was not the only factor which slowed down the arrival of the directory. Another major problem, and the factor which is currently plaguing the directory, is the fact that the 800 to 1000 students whose telephone numbers are not listed failed to write
, 
them on the enrollment card. This is the 
~ 
card from which the tape the printer used 
r ~ 
was prepared. 

,r 
The last major problem with the ~ directory is cost problem. This is related r to the problem of permanent authority f over the directory. Currently, when a 
r 
r 
~ 
r daanesbury r 
r 
~ 
r 
,.
' 
~ 
r 
r 
' 
F" 
printer agrees to publish the student directory, he does so at no charge to the university. The catch is that the printer agrees to sell all the advertising in the classified section. In other words, there is money to be made on the student directory and the printer, not the university, is making it. 
The reason the profits are given away in this manner is because the respon­sibility for publishing the directory changes each year with the changes in the Student Union Social Commission. It is much easier to put the responsibility in the hands of the publisher and give the profit away than to make a permanent arrangement. However, the university should assume responsibility for the directory. That's the only way to solve this problem. 
It won't happen again if. 
If the following five steps are taken this year's directory travesty will never happen again: 
1) Make the Notre Dame Telephone Directory an official publication of the university. Put the permanent year-to­year responsibility in the office of the Vice President of Business Affairs. 
2) Solicit bids from local publishers for offset publication of the directory from phot~ready computer lisitngs. This bid should be under $1,000. 
3) Hire two students who will be spending the entire summer in South Bend to serve as editors of the directory. These students would solicit classified ad­vertising on a commission basis. The minimum net yield of this advertising should be $1500. (Actually, $3,000 is more realistic.) This more than covers the printing costs and provides summer jobs for two students. 
4) Contract an on-campus organization to typeset the advertising section. It should be ready to go by September 1. 
5) Have the two student editors, and one administrative representative prepare the entire telephone listing in the first two weeks of the school year. This requires close cooperation with the registrar in preparing the computer listing for offset publication. One of the student editors should have some printing experience. 
If the directory is at the publishers by the beginning of the third week of school, it should be ready for distribution within a week and a half. There is no real point 
in blaming  a  lot of people for the  tar­ 
diness  and  sloppiness  of  this  year's  
directory.  But there  is  absolutely  no  

excuse for not taking all the necessary actions to prevent another disaster. 
John Abowd 
all just served to reaffirm my belief that the American people are in a 
hell of a bad state of being, a view I've held for quite a long time. 
Paul is pretty pissed at Nixon. Chris is out studying. Al voted for 
McGovern today. He was a staunch Nixonite, but I guess we rubbed 
off on him .. one more for the cause. I just feel kind of complacent. 
My bitterness is deep-set, but it is still there all the same. It's been 
there for quite some time now. 
I started bitching about the war when I was in 8th grade, and it 
wasn't too popular a stand for an 8th grader to take, but some of the 
others listened. I worked, as much as I could for as young as I was, 
and I'd debate anyone who'd listen .... because I thought I knew the 
truth. I remember passing out McCarthy literature to the people in 
the shopping centers, and licking envelopes. But even more--l 
remember the hope, the optimism. All that, only to see the ruins of 
Chicago in '68 and feel the disappointing loss in the following 
November. 
So then came an era of protest, and I protested, I demonstrated, 
wrote letters, debated in school assemblies, stuffed more envelopes, 
canvasserl, and hoped some more. I worked for this day, only to end 
up with this predictable morning. 
I said that the war was wrong five years ago, and I was 
"unamerican". People were a silent majority, and I was "wrong". I 
damned the war as immoral. I said we should get out. and stop the 
killing. You got kicked around for saying that type of thing. But you 
kept on saying it...and you kept getting kicked. 
So now---1972, and there has never been a time when I couldn't 
remember the war going on. Ending the war and pulling out is ac­
ceptable to the majority of Americans now. I don't understand. What 
I said five years ago is acceptable now, but the same attitudes are all 
around me. Nixon is the "peace" candidate (president), yet he has 
dropped how many tons of bombs on a country no larger than the state 
of Florida? 
The war is ending, but Nixon has made a mockery of the American 
political conscience, or perhaps he has shown us what it really is. 
The Nixon administration is tainted by so many things in my mind 
that it is hard to begin a list. ITT .... the grain deal "telephone 
calls".... price fixing .... secret campaign funds ... Watergate. These 
things raise so many questions in my mind, and still there are hints of 
even more unprecendented corruption. 
And then there are the Nixon policies of vetoing HEW bills and 
benign neglect. His ideas are not progressive for America, and they 
are certainly not in line with my way of thinking. Yet he has received 
an overwhelming mandate of approval. 
He hid behind his office door during the entire campaign. He would not debate the issues openly. He refused to outline any of his proposals. He waged a successful campaign I must admit, a cam­paign that made a mockery of the American people. But then, have the American people made that mockery themselves? 
Mike from across the hall stopped in and said that he is actually going to pray tonight. He said that he was going to pray that he had made the right decision in voting for Nixon. I told him that I'll be praying right along with him, for what it's worth. 
I was standing outside one of the voting places in South Bend shortly after the polls had closed when an old woman came up to me and said that she wanted to vote. I told her that the polls were closed and that it was too late to vote. She was quite upset. She explained how she had been waiting in line for a long time, but because of her heart condition, she had needed rest, so she left. I couldn't find much to say to her in the middle of a South Bend street with rain falling down. She left me with only "I would have liked to have voted, nobody listens anymore....! have to catch my bus in the dark." 
It's 3:30 in the morning now, and I'm no where nearer to un­derstanding what has been happening around me than when I started out five years ago. I don't know what to think of my country now. I don't know what to do, or even really what to say. But I've got four more years to try and figure it out now. 
I'd better get to bed. I have an 8 o'clocker in the morning and school will go on as usual I suppose. I don't really want to write any more anyway. 
I keep thinking though, "nobody listens anymore.....! have to catch my bus in the dark". 
all my love, 
Jim. 



raarry lrudeau 
the observer 
ISSL'E STAFF: 
Night Editor: Art Esposito Ass't Night Editor: James Abowd Design: Lynn DiGuilio, Tim Neuville, Anthony 
Abowd, george lund, Mike Baum, Jerry Lutkus Day Editor: Tom Drape Picturemen: Jim Hunt. Jerome Phillips Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr Night Controller: Phil Orscheln Typists: mark niederkorn, Barb Norcross, 
1\Aoshi Anastasoff, John Flannigan 
Editorials printed in The Observer" 
reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf 
of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 


Thursday, November 9, 1972 the observer 
5 


quotations from chairman baum 
J 
•

a scenar1o for the revolution 
, 
COUP D'ETAT 
~c enario for the Revolution 
as applied to 
Notre Dame Student Government 
by 
Michael Baum 
Obs('J'\'('1' Staff Conspirator 
foreword: 

We live in an age of deacceleration. Past the rabid riots of the Sixties, past Kent State. past moratorium. The Vietnamese War has become a subject with a boredom factor rivaling that of The Notre Dame Ht'IH)J't. 
The Year of the Great Sleep, when student activism will qualify for nostalgia status­when polls will reveal sweeping blocs of students supporting Richard Nixon over Gt.•orge McGovern. The Conservative Year. 
Indicative of this Vorstoss zur Vergangheit is the present Student Body Government of Notre Dame <du Lac). Always constructed on conservative lines ( dem.ocratic l, student body governments have rarelv if ever opted for the more radical Pniesidium or military junta forms of government. but in this year Notre Dame Student Government has regressed into the feudal past-it has become a monarchy. 
Benevolent. perhaps, but student government is restructured on the lines of monarchv-instead of using the omniscient knowledge of government students to seek new and ever more challenging systems of self-rule. We must ask, with Ernie Lun­dquist. "Now. really, what the hell goes?" 
The general abdication of the student body from the process of self-rule reached its nadir in the Spring of 1972, when Student Life Council elections barely elicited enough candidates to fill the positions. The moderate up-swing in recent months is lwartwarming. but hardly impressive. 
It would he unjust to chastize the students 
for this general apathy. After all, they do 
hut follow in the great tradition of American 
politics-which leaves vast numbers of voters 
dfectively disenfranchised through a 
combination of disinterest, and, of course, 
the ever present problem of never bei~g 
sure what the masters of government say IS 
rE'allv true. 
The broad constraints of Freedom of the 
Press <to counterfeit a phrase) hamper the 
American government. Perhaps the 
greatest of all its contemporaries, The 
Krt'mlin Papers were never released by 
Pravda. None the less, amid the many 
government and Pentagon spokesmen, one 
never knows what is true, and what has been 
doctored by a paternalistic government 
E'ager to prevent riots. 
w(' foreshadow yet another of citizen 
abdication here at du Lac. If a clique will 
run the government. says an ancient 
proverb. it might as well be our ~lique. ~his 
work is designed as a blueprmt, subJect 
alwavs to the necessity of improvisation, for 
internal change. The stroke otsrtate, in the 
old tongue, the coup d'~tat. 
This work is written for such conditions as 
now exist. It is dedicated to the Dormouse, 
wh·o knew enough to sleep through any 
crisis. 
·~1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
I 

C'oup d'Etat: Possibilities and Advantages 
Empirt>s do not suffer emptiness of purpose 
at tltl.' tim.-of their creation. It is when they 
ha\'t' bt>come t>stablished that aims are lost 
and rt>plact'd by vague ritual. 
-Muad'dib 

If ever a student body government was ripe for the traditional coup d'etat, the "stroke of state", this one is. Malaparte himself could not ask for more. It remains for one group, acting with decision, singleness of purpose, and lightening speed to change the course of student government, and, incidently, make page 36 of the New York Times and 14 column inches in Newsweek. 
Consider the position. The mood of the masses favours any colourful, exciting operation within student government. The overwhelming election of a government hased essentially upon slapstick humour <md general satire proves this. To borrow from King R.C. Kersten, it is this "bread and circuses" mood am&ng the rabble that''ill work most to our advantage. 
The thrill of a power coup, the blaring 
lwadlines, which we shall artfully work, the 
colour, the pagentry that must inevitably 
attend such action are all to our advantage. 
1\lonarchy has become boring. 
"Hevolution" will tantalize. 
Student Government is shaky. "The most 
dangerous game in the universe is to govern 

from an oracular base," according to the (iuide. We can but concur. 
Notoriously inconsistent, Kersten is un­predictable even among his own cronies. Etienne himself will admit this in his less guarded moments. The abrupt cancellation of prepared plans, the swift changes in direction <who can forget Calhoun's in­decision on whether or not to withdraw t:om the Spring's election?) provide a backdrop of bewilderment within the ranks of student government. a factor we will, of course, capitalize upon. 
Certainly, one may ask why we do not merely wait for the next general election to effect our plots. The answer is obvious. 
Kersten has set a mood, a tone for the next SBP election, possibly for the next two or three. Humour candidates, always the plague of such affairs, will be out in force. E\'en serious candidates will have to take to heart the lesson of R.C. Kersten, and play to the mob. 
A new tack may be used-the next winner 
rnav he an atheist-but the factor is there. 
I~ addition, general election is incredibly cumbersomP. Staff members of The Ob­st•nt·•· and WHNn will work themselves into Parly graves covering the election. Long hours trooping after boring speakers, paper in hand. on the off chance of obtaining a quotable phrase to toss to the night editors. llundreds of dollars will be spent to flood the campus with propaganda--buttons, leaflets, posters--the trappings of charisma. 

Compare to this the quick, clean, thrifty change of the coup d'etat. Go to sleep in a monarchy. arise under a "People's ( ;overnment." Efficient, neat, orderly. This is the wave of the future. In the twentieth century, coups are more com­monplace than elections as a means of changing government. 
In addition, we will have obtained, almost overnight. the awesome personal power heloved of every student politico. The national speaking engagements, recruit­nwnt trips. meetings with the Board of Trustees. Presidential Dinners with ll<•sburgh. opportunities to chat with James 
T. Burtchaell. all this and more will be ours. 
Tlw Obst•rnr will hang on our every word. This will be guaranteed, as we will, of course. maintain control of the Observer. The simple joys, known to every govern. nwnt. of shaping the opinions of the masses, issuing edicts, dodging questions, and covering up awkward facts will be ours. 
In addition. the not inconsiderable funds of student government, channeled our way hy a thoughtful university. will be ours. 
And what stands in the way? An lliJ<lthetic. proverbially so, student body, a couple of locked doors, and a boffo-humour civil service, torn with dissension, ham­strung by an oracular base ... 
Wt"ll! Make your will and testament. Won't you·? Join your local government. 
Jethro Tull "Thick As A Brick" I! !11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
II. 
The Planning of the Stroke of State 
Tht' most dangerous game in the universe 
is to go\'t>rn from an oracular base. We do 
not ronsidt>r ourselves wise enough or brave 
t•nough to play that game ... Our goal is not to 
I'llIt', but.. .to learn and to free ourselves 
from <til rt"slraints imposed by dt>pendency 
<tnd gon••·nment. 
-Chapter Three 
The Steerman's . Guide 


Situation Wanted 
Experienced ruler desires new satrapy. Urbane renewal forcing relocation. 
So long as we are circumspect in minorThe successful coup depends to a large details, such as our treatment of student

extent upon the extremely careful, 
government offices, which are universitymeticulous planning necessary_ to coor­property, Security will grant us the samedinate the movements and actions of the attention as a goldfish swallowing contest, 

opposition, our own personnel, and, most 
importantly, the major organs of perhaps less.. 
propaganda. notably The Observer. Timing is essential. We must know who 
In one thing, we are extremely for­will be where at the time of the active part of 
tunate. Student Government has no police the coup. This will enable us to have those 
power. There are no troops to risk being individuals who represent a threat to our 
loyal to the outgoing regime, no possibility take-over under surveillance; possibly, it 
of a sudden influx of trained, organized will allow us to preserve an interdict of 
coup-crushers. By the time the common news. keeping knowledge of the power 
rabble knows of our actions, they will be change from these individuals until the next 
presented with a fait accompli, a student day. 
government in new hands, the possibilities Ht.•re, and for many other reasons, it will 
for counter-coup proceedings hidden amid be well to have student fovernment 
a maze of inter-office memos and artfully thoroughly infiltrated. The importance of 
worded lead paragrc.phs. "inside information" to a successful coup 
The only organized forces of police cannot be overemphasized. power on the campus of the University of Every governmental power structure has Notre Dame lie in the hands of two certain key p<'sitions, not neccessarily with conveniently separated groups -the hall actual power. but close to the pulse and flow rectors and resident assistants and the of events, men whose counsels are heard by security force. We will examine both the decision makers. People in such groups as they apply to our operations. positions will be invaluable to our in­
The hall rectors, or, rather, the resident telligence operation, if only for their in­assistants, for it is they who have the timate knowledge of personalities. When numbers. may be discounted. Constrained the chips are down, where will Etienne go, by University Regulations to have no other with Kersten or with us? Can Clark be 
outside interests, save booze, they will relied upon, or must he be removed? These display little more reaction than the answers we must know. average student. This is to say -they will read the news stories over lunch. The (to be continued tomorrow) 
H.A. 's not only have no jurisdiction, they are mostly students <emphasis on student) and have better things to worry about. 
And what of the Security Force? Security has been here a long time. The officers are used, inured as it were, to the vagaries of college students. They were no 

erratum

doubt amused by the King's election. They will be amused by our coup. We must the author of yesterday's reviewnever lose sight of our ability to amuse, We of .Jean Shephard -A force inmust never loose sight of our ability to Modern C'omt'dy. was Neil Rosini. 
amuse, which lesson Kersten drove home so forcefully. 

Theatre Nates summer and smoke 
I. franklin devine 
The newest addition to the directing staff the selfish Mrs. Winemiller, "the cross" of the ND-SMC Theatre makes his debut this Ht•v. Winemiller must bear. weekend in Washington Hall when the Heimerdinger has tabbed Kirk Pace as 
.l

Theatre opens its run of Tennessee Dr. John Buchanan, the young doctor who Williams's Summt>r and Smoke. falls in love with the spinsterish Alma. 
Director Charles Heimerdinger comes to Ravmond Berndt tackles the role of John the ND-SMC Theatre by way of the Buchanan. Jr.," restlessly alive in a ..-.. University of Indiana where he earned his stagnant society". doctorate, having previously received Also in the cast are Paddy Donovan, degrees from both the University of Debbie Tirsway, Tom Mules, and Cathy Michigan and the University of Illinois. Hicks. 
Sumnwr and Smoke, a tragic drama, is Technical Director Richard Bergman has set against the background of a Mississippi designed a multi-level set dominated by town in the summer of 1916. Williams deals black, white and gray tones. Designer Faith with the crippling effects of a morally Adams has reflected the set tones in her stifling upbringing upon a girl wishing to fall costumes of the turn of the century. in love, but not knowing how. Senior Ellen Harrington, who has been 
working on ND-SMC Theatre Productions 

Maribeth Fencl, who ND-SMC Theatre since the fall of 1969's We Bombed In New followers will remember from her roles in lla\'t'll, has designed lighting for the Ua•·k of lht> Moon, and as the romantic lead production. in last spring's Showboat plays Alma Sumnu•r and Smoke opens Friday night in Winemiller. Alma's father, the Episcopal Washington Hall and continues Saturday,minister of Glorious Hill, Mississippi is then reopens Thursday, Friday and portrayed by Mark Swiney. It was Swiney Saturday next week. Curtain for all 
who turned in such a memorable per­performances is at 8:30. As usual, tickets formance as Henry in the Lion In Winter for students, faculty and staff are sold at the earlier this season. Marv Walsh appears as $2.00 discount price. 


COUP compiles results from questionnaire 
KELLER & WEBB 
SAT N!TE >c:~•;-~~ l<: 
U>.f'ORTIJNE BALLROO,V, 
::;~ COfltS Admi~~~M 

----------"-------­
t 
L 
I I 
by David Rust 

~ 
Starr Reporter

I I 
Student union and university

I 
sPrvices broke into the limelight of

I 
:he Committee on Unorthodox

l 
f'rivateering's areas of concern as 
C.O.U.P began the task of com­

I t piling its questionnaire results at last night's committee meeting.
I 
~ OvE'r one-fifth of the question­L nair<>s distributed Nov. 1 came 
back completed to C.O.U.P. 2800 t \\'l'rE' pa~sed to undergraduates ~ through the mail and through the l oil-campus office, and 600 were 
rt't urned. 

•l Although hampered by the theft of Dillon hall's reception box,
~ 
C.O.U.P. chairman Mike Hess

~ 
announ<'ed that he was pleased

I 
with the ''reasonable" turnout. 

I S: imulated by questionnaire ~ l't'sults preliminarily compiled by ~ C.O.U.P. c, Hess and his ~ committt'e have embarked on a ~ :hn'E'-pronged search into campus sl'rvices and businesses suggested
• 
by student comment on the

• questionnaires.
~ 
ThE'se three prongs pointt towards businesses on the hall 
~ 
IPv!•L student government and ~ student union, and the university.. ~ These last two mentioned areas 
\\We not given on the C.O.U.P. t quE'stionnaire, but chairman Hess I rt•ported that both were the subject 
Benefit concert for draft evader 

Regis Snyder, former Notre Dame student, will go on trial next Wt'dnesday in San Jose, Cal., for refusal to be . inducted into the armed services. To raise funds for Regis' defense, there will be held a benefit concert tonight at 8:00p.m. in the Regina Hall Auditorium, Saint Mary's. 
Music will be provided by Ed­ward Shehey, who has performed on campus previously. The peformance is free but the hat will be passed to contribute for Regis' defense . 
.. 
'( 
the observer Thursday, November 9, 1972
6 
of prodigious commentary, the latter receiving the majority of all com pia ints. 
"Wc'rl' basing all we do on the prPmise that students have the right to know what's done with their money," said Hess, in of­fering the committee's rationale for moving into these other areas. 
"We also believe that students ought to be given a chance to air all gnpes, and that they should be able to be included in the problem­solving processes." 
"Student government can only do what students want them to do," IIPss addE'd. "To get them to say what they want done, there may have to be a bite in their wallet" for stimulation. 
"WE''ve said before that 
C.O.U.P. was high on the student government list of priorities," noted Hess. "It is high on the list for that reason. H <Etienne) ereated it for that purpose." 
Food sales and hall taxes 
rl'appeared often on the surveys, in 
both favorable and unfavorable 
lights. Other hall services and 
institutions came under student 
scrutiny. 
Since these came in the line of C.O.U.P.'s original specific goals, the committee will attack these areas by presenting compilation of student comments, under each ahlJ category as presented on the questionnaire and by halls, and 




Observer 

News meeting 
7:00 TONIGHT LaFortune 2-D 

An important meeting for all reporters and day editors. New writers are encouraged to attend 
will present these to the halls through the Halll Presidents Council for any action the council or l'ach hall president sees fit to :ak<>. 
Noting that questionnaire results also indicated some cases of wide pric<> disparagement, C.O.U.P. nwmb<>rs will put together com­para! ive price lists and will pr<>sent these along with the ('omment compilation lists to the II PC. 
Both of these sources will also allow the committee to give all s!'rvieE's receiving compliments in thl' questionnaire, and there were several l'xamples of such student­givE'n good marks, the "C.O.U.P. seal of approval" (Hess). 
"This is not a case of student government trying to barge in on the hall level. No one of the eommittee has had any experience on student government. I was only involved in it a week prior to the committee's creation," said the ~tudent government executive coordinator. 
Owing to this suggested im­partiality, Hess described his committee's plans to check out complaints on student government and its student union. 
Hegarding the former, C.O.U.P. has already contacted independent auditors from the College of Business Administration, recommended by accounting d<>partment chairman professor Hay Powell, to conduct an audit of stud<>nt government books. 
"That's all we can do," said IIPss. "W<> can't examine policy­:hat's not our line." However, he said. "T don't believe that the stud£'nt governmnet, if they have anything to hide, will be able to kPPP it from the auditors." 
Their report will be submitted to C.O.U.I'. which will, promised IIPss, immPdiately release the audit's results ot the public. 
C.O.U.P. plans to attack com­plaints on the student union by {'ft'at ing a task force which will consist in the main of those who \·oic(•d the most elaborate com­plaints. Many of these have alt r('ady been contacted, said 
II('SS. 
Unhappiness with the student union. as recorded on the quE'stionaires, springs mostly from concert ticket sales, movie prices, and g<'neral policy concerning what is done with the money given to the union. 
''Again. these questions come up mostly out of a student concern for what's being done with their monE'y," siad Hess. "We will suggest that hall presidents and union and government personnel get together with the students directlv involved with their opE'rations and explain what the money goes to. 
------------------~~---=~~~=--. 
It's Not too Late To Take Some Time This Weekend ••• 
To Do Some Different Kind Of 
Listening , Th;nking, Praying , Talking. 
Time Is too short not to. 

CALL : 1371 , 8814 GRAYMOOR FRIARS 
Ih'ss stated that "the most in­: t'r<>sting result of the survey was :hat students felt that the university was the biggest rip-off around." 
SpPcific complaints included those concerning the bookstore, thE' Huddle, telephone installation fl•<>s. laundry fees and athletic ('v~·nt ticket and athletic facility PriCPS. 
"Another task force is being lornwd to look into these areas 
(continu€d on POI?€ 7) 
Interested in 
Graduate Study in 
. BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 
HOSPITAL & HEALTH 
·SERVICES ADMINISTRATION 
Sec us NovemiJcr "· ,, ,, ro at fill· /'lttl'l'l)/1'11/ /lurt'l/11 for informCJ/Jon about our two-year Master's degree progrnms at the Cornell Umversity 
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 
-
Contact yaur f'lacement offir'e tor exact times 

f 
r 

Thursday, November 9, 1972 the observer 
7 

People on campus 



Fr. Toohey as!!~rat!?-!i!ieti~~~.E~~.ck~!!!!~~~Xnneed 

by Mike O'Hare Observer Staff 

The glass wall of the campus ministry office faces the busy lobby of the Memorial Library, often displaying subtle social reminders to passing students. 
The thought provoking com­mentary found on the outside of this office reflects its occupants challenging conception of his role as Director of Camopus Ministry, at Notre Dame. 
A native of Racine, Wisconsin, Fr. William A. Toohey received his 
B.A. from Notre Dame in 1952, and after a brief attempt at selling insurance, entered the Marine Corps' officer candidate school Interestingly enough, his vocation to the priesthood developed in the Marines, at the unlikely locality of Parris Island, S.C. 
At night, Toohey played cards with the Marine chaplains and read deeply into Christianity, an exercise which he recalled, highlighted the gap between the ideals of the Corps and the ethic of the Gospels. "I slowly experienced a personal conversion," said Toohey. 
After being discharged in 1954, Toohey entered the Congregation of Holy Cross and was ordained in 1961. Fr. Toohey spent a year at Notre Dame before joining the faculty of Holy Cross College in 
Washington D.C.  He received an  
M.A.  in  public  speaking  and  
communications  in  1962  from  

Northwestern University. 
While at Holy Cross College, Fr. Toohey served as chaplain at the National Training School for Boys, a federal correctional institute, and also for two girl's high schools, one in a black ghetto and the other in white suburbia. 
When Holy Cross College was closed in 1968, Fr. Toohey came to Notre Dame, where he taught preaching to Moreau seminarians in Notre Dame's professional ministry program. When a Notre Dame committee, commissioned to revitalize the campus ministry, looked for someone to head this office, Fr. Toohey was selected. 
Fr. Toohey views the role of the campus ministry as a coordinating agency, rather than a referral agency, one which "coordinates the efforts and involvement of all levels of the university community 

COUP survey results 
(continued from page 6) 
quite extensively," said Hess. The committee is spurred on by such comm£'nts as the one which ap­p£>an'd on one student's returned questionaire: "We've got to make the university realize that we're not alumni; we're students and we 
can't afford their <the bookstore's)
prices." "This investigation will be more 
difficult than the others," predicted Hess, "because this does not involve a simple student-to­student relationship. That's why we believe it shoul<be looked into in a thorough way." 
Another area of student concern : urned out to be campus press, which students mistakenly took to mean the Observer and the Sdwlastic, instead of its intended meaning, the student union-run service that puts out posters and other paraphenalia for a fee. . 
"There isn't too much we can do here," said Hess, since the com­plaints were not of a fiscal nature. "What we will do is compile comments concerning these two publications and give them to the Scholastic and Observer. 

S3~ I 
l'rtNOI.l'rtJ003 N'rf:>H:13W'V I U::LlN'rtM S~O.lJ3 ~ 10 'rt3 ~'V l£00l JO 4SeM MN 
·a"'rf 'rtiN'rt/\ lASNN3d OEI'l l·OL lLSV-S'BL' 0£ :s-o£ :6 +eS (l0l) !J.::I·UOW 
S)IJ'rt8~3d'rtd .lNnOJSIO 0350 ON'V M3N· OU!POJ:>U! 
S1'rtl~3.l'rtW H:>~'rf3S3~ 
l'VNOI.l'rtJ003 3.l3ldWOJ 
S.lN'rt.llOSNO:>H:>~'rf3S3~ l'rtNOI.l'rtJOO 3 N'rf:>l ~ 3W'rt 
... .1.((:.: 
.. f ... 

F1·. Toohey: campus ministry can "ht>lp N.D. become a touching piact>." 
in a reciprocal ministry." He 
conceives the challenge of his idea 
of the campus ministry as "the 
ministry to the whole campus by 
the whole campus,'; The major 
thrust of campus ministry's efforts 
is":o make Notre Dame a better 
place by creating a revelational 
environment, where persons can 
grow through their experience of 
m£>eting God." 
In addition to promoting 
possibilities for revelation, Fr. 
Toohey hopes the campus ministry 
can "help Notre Dame become a 
touching place." He believes the 
creative force of love generated by 
Notre Dame becoming a "touching 
place" would indeed create a 
revelational environment, 
something unique to Notre Dame. 
Concerning the role of women in 
the Church, Fr. Toohey expressed 
regret over recent Vatican 
decisions in this area. "Women can 
still do as much as before, for 
example reading at Mass. 
However they have been denied the normal minor order of lector," ·he explained. Symbolically, Fr. Toohey feels that this represents a 
tragic movement in the Church. 
He sees the ruling as "intolerable 
in this day and age of equality and 
respect for persons," and thinks 
that it is "inexcusable." 
When questioned about the 
apparent campus apathy and 
student unwillingness to become 
involved, Fr. Toohey responded by 
citing "a pain among young people 
or what Kenneth Kenniston calls 
'the agony of the counterculture.' " 
C.O.U.P.'s next meeting, at which more information COIJ" ccrning questionaire results and task force personnel will be an­nounced, is set for the cabinet officeinLaFortuneat7:00pmnext thursday. November 15. It will be, as have past C.O.U.P. sessions, an 
co~p~e~n~n~w~e~t~in~g~·--------~~~~~~~~~~~~~
r 

NOTRE DAME · SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
presents 


SUMMER AND SMOKE 
Tennessee William's beautifully fragile drama of frustrated love 
Washington Hall 
Notre Dame campus Nov.10,11,16,17,18at8:30pm 
Students $1.50 
Phone Reservations 284-4176 

ca.lm: ""'t:oes not know whether 
t~Is IS c.~.._ t o student apat~y, 
d1sencha~tment, or the begmnmg 
of despair. 

"I suspect there is a pain," says 
~r. ~oo~e~," because when one is 
m pam, rt IS hard to g~t turned on to 
causes." , He bele1v~s th~t Fr. 
Hesburgh s rec~nt articles . m the 
ObsPrver are Important m un­
derstanding this pain. 

"Fr. Hesburgh characterizes the pain as a pain of hypocrisy, the divergence between rhetoric and reality," stated Fr. Toohey. The campus ministry director feels the pain of young people comes when they experience or witness this hypocrisy in every dimension of our society. Young people have seen corruption infect the highest levels of government, and they now believe that everyone can be corrupted. 
"Young people wonder who they can trust and believe in," says Fr. Toohey. According to him, Fr. Hesburgh realizes this when he speaks of the "moral bankruptcy of leadership in America. £>specially in the area of justice." Their martyrs, John Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, Medgar Evers, Martin Luther King, Phillip Berrigan, all these men, according to Fr. Toohey, relect young people's search for trust. 


' 


Hair Styled As You Are Accustomed To ~Having It Done mYour Home 
City free hair analysis 
Call for appointments--259·7679 
student rates

1321 E. McKinley Hwy.--Mish. 
Mon., Tues. &

21/2 mi. east of T&C Shopping Center 
Wed. 

concern," says Toohey, "I'm just trying to understand it." 
Toohey believes that the style of education the studentsreceive also contributes to their pain. He perceives our educational system as one of domestication, giving ~tudents rewards so they can fit mto a social system that they believe is corrupt and oppressive. Toohey calls for a more 
humanistic approach to education, one that will provide students with an urgency to transform society to the degree it needs to be changed. 
However Fr. Toohey is troubled also by a dichotomy he sees in young people. On the one hand, he finds they accept a kind of provatism which stresses "doing one's own thing," but on the other hand they recognize that 

has a claim on his brother. "They have a strange ambivalence," he noted, "being simultaneously self-centered and other-centered." He observed that students often find it easier to respond in a Christian manner to refugees in Bangladesh than to their residence hall 
roomates. Charity still does not begin enough at home. 
One thing that troubles Fr. 
• Toohey is his awareness of how few students any kind of campus ministry reaches. However Fr. Toohey is optimistic about moving the campus ministry from the periphery to the center of campus 1 fe. And if he could put just one ·nessage on HHIS Library office Jlass wall, it would probably be "Please touch." 
.._ 
• 

8 the observer Thursday, November 9, 1972 
Jayvee gridders set season's finale against UT's Baby Vols 

Junior varsity football teams split the first four games that in­from Notre Dame and Tennessee dudes an impressive 31-7 victory will meet in Knoxville Saturday in ovE>r Michigan State at home last lht> annual Children's Hospital I<~riday. ht>nifit game that is expected to Tennessee has won just one of attract some 30,000 fans into four games, a 34-6 decision over 1\t>vland Stadium. Kentucky. The Vols lost to Van-
r">Pnny Murphy's Irish will be derbi1t (17-9), Georgia Tech (9-7) playing their final game, having and Alabama last Friday (34-21). 
Jim I d son ~=~=~=:::::::::::::::::::====================================================================================·
Dona 

The Irish Eye 
::===============================:::=============================================================================:=Sports s horts 
Bob Thomas didn't set the only kicking record Saturday in Philadelphia. Punter Brian Doherty tied a Notre Dame mark without Pven getting up from the bench. 
Doherty didn't have to punt at all af~ainst Navy, tying the Irish stan­dard for fewest punts in a game, although the feat will go into the books as a team record. The last game in which Notre Dame did not punt was in a 45-12 victory over Oklahoma in the 1968 season opener. 
Gary Diminick's 84-yard kickoff return for a touchdown was the first for the Irish since Nick Eddy scampered 85 yards for a score against Pitt in 1%6. The TD runback was the second of that season for Eddy, who had carried carried a kickoff 96 yards for a score against Purdue in the first game of the year. 
Diminick's touchdown was the first at Notre Dame for the Mount Carmel, Pa., junior. In high school, he had set Pennsylvania state rE'cords for most touchdowns (38) and points (244) in one season (1969) but he had never crossed the goal line in an ND uniform until the Navy game. Diminick added his second career touchdown late in the second quarter. 
Hockey standouts Ian Williams, Paul Regan and Eddie Bumbacco got off to impressive starts in the scoring department as the Irish icers opened their 1972-73 season by splitting a home-and-home series with Bowling Green. 
Williams was the weekend's top goal-getter, pumping in five while getting credit for two assists and Regan and Bumbacco picked up eight points apiece to share the team lead. Bumbacco had four toals and four assists and Regan, three goals and five assists. 
Notre Dame will begin Western Collegiate Hockey Association play this weekend against Michigan at the ACC. Game time Friday and Saturday nights is at 7:30 . 
The Wolverines don't figure to be one of theWCHA's stronger clubs this year, although they opened league play by splitting a series with North Dakota last weekend. Wings Mike Jarry 04-36-50) and Paul Andre­
Paris (18-15-33) and center Randy Neal (10-23-33) are the top per­formers for coach AI Renfrew. Michigan and Notre Dame split four games last season, both teams sweeping two-game series on home ice. 
Again this season, Notre Dame will play a ~otal of eight points wo~th of games with the other WCHA cl_ubs.. If the Ir1s~ play a team four times, each game will be worth two pomts m ~e standmgs. I~ clubs appear only twice on the Irish schedule, each game 1s worth four pomts. 
With the passing-oriented Air Force Academy next on Notre Dame's schedule, Irish fans may have cause for concern Although Notre Dame led the nation in pass defense _prior to the Navy game, the Midshipmen quarterback, AI Glenny, riddled the Irish for 277 yards on a 17 of 26 performance. Each of his 17 completions was good for a first down, too. 
Statistics can be deceiving, however, and the primary reason that the Irish were tops in the country in passs defense was because five of their first seven opponents used the Wishbone-T offense, in which the emphasis is on the running game. Only Northwestern, prior to Navy, used a pro­style attack. 
·Navy tight and Steve Ogden remarked that he was "surprised" by the ,·ulnerability of the Irish pass defense and, after watching game films, Notre Dame coach Ara Parseghian comented, .. Our coverage was poor". It certainly looked bad Saturday, although Mike Townsend's first half interception <his fourth of the year) gave the Irish a team total of 13, equaling last year's ten-game theft totals 
. Air Force quarterback Rich Haynie and receivers Frank Murphy and Greg Smith are veterans and the trio can give any defense plenty to worry about. Haynie has completed 90 passes this year for 1411 yards and has 17 touchdown tosses to his credit. Murphy has made 'n receptions for seven touchdowns and Smith has 24 grabs for three touchdowns. Murphy was a key factor in the Falcons' upset of Arizona State, catching seven passes, three for touchdowns. Split end Bob Farr has caught four TD passes. 
Explaining his club's problem's with Navy's passing game, Parsegh.ian said, "It was really a combination of things. First of all, it was the f1rst time since Northwestern we had played against a passing formation. Secondly, AI Glenny had a great day. And then, that 35-0 lead at halftime didn't help." 

"You never know how you react with a lead like that," he continued. "The defense maybe gofcaught up in the success of the offense but ac­tually, Navy was moving the ball ":'ell in the first half when errors stopped two or three drives." 
When Huff and Penick both gained over 100 yards rushing against Navy, it marked the first time two Irish backs had accomplished that feat in the same game since Ara Parseghian took over the head coaching job in 1964. · 

A shutout wouldn't seem to be in the offing this weekend. Notre Dame has scored in 69 straight games while the Falcons have put points on the board in 50 consecutive outings. 
After two consecutive 500-plus yard rushing games, Notre Dame climbed to third in rushing offense statistics released this week by the NCAA. The Irish, who have been averaging 354.1 ypg, rank behind UCLA (362.7) and Oklahoma (381.1). 
Notre Dame also stands fourth nationally in total offense with a 
464.4 YPI average. Arizona Staze leads that category with a 492.8 mark. 
.­


Tl•nnessee has captured two of the last three games against the Irish, winning 10-7 in 1969 and 30-13 kast 
year before 31,000. The Irish won
in 1970, 21-20. 

"The victory over Michigan State was a good team effort, we showed a lot of improvement, especially on pass defense," said Murphy. "When we had a clutch situation someone was always there." 
Murphy, following last year's defeat at Knoxville, is well aware ot T<•nnessee's potential. "They have some fine receivers and a wry capable quarterback --I just hope we can control the ball to some extent. Everybody will have to play well," measured Murphy. 
T<'l1nessee's offense is anchored by freshman quarterback Randy Wallace, who has completed 17 of :m passes for 310 yards while rushing for another 249 yards in 42 attempts (4.0l. Wide receiver Larry Seivers has caught nine passes for 192 yards and three touchdowns. 
Irish quarterback Frank D e earns Navy game ball
Allocco, a sophmore, has com-amp er . pleted 16 of 29 passes for four TD's Offt>nsive captain John Dampeer received the game ball for his effort !three against MSUL Saturday in Veteran's Stadium. 
Sports feature---politics invades baseball 
by "Lefty" Ruschmann 
Baseball season finally ended today when the Decaying Cities League (Class F) wound up its playoffs, which were won by the Newark Maggots--maybe. Nobody was quite sure whether the Maggots had really won, not even their manager, Yogi Bearhug, whom I contacted last night over the, phone. Bearhug, who was tentatively celebrating his victory with a can of lukewarm Schaefer, imparted the following nuggets of wisdom, recorded in this uncut and uncensored transcript of the in­terview. ME: Mr. Bearhug, your Maggots won the playoffs pretty handily against the Camden Tapeworms, so how come you're not sure about your team winning the cham­pionship? YOGI: It's the !$+&? +$! Credentials Committee. They're voting whether or not to disqualify us for violating the McGovern reform rules. ME: You're kidding. Reform 
rules? In a baseball league? YOGI : Let me tell you the story. Last year the owners got sick of the Maggots always winning the pennant in a runaway so they imposed the McGovern rules in order to make the teams equal and open up the pennant races. Even the free-agent draft couldn't overcome such things as the stupidity factor of managers. ME: But you still won the division by 15 games. YOGI: That's what you think. We actually won by 2.6 games. That's because they abolished "winner take all" games this season and awarded victories proportional to the number of runs scored. 
That reminds me. Let me tell you another story. In order to please the fans, the Commissioner made up quotas for the teams. Every team must be represen­tative of its fans. Now our fans, for example, are 22 percent women, 34 percent young people under the 
? Booters win, 2-1 
Notre Dame's soccer team posted its 9th win of the season last Saturday with a 2-1 victory over the Northwestern Wildcats. 
Coach Arno Zoske's boaters were hampered by injuries to several regular players, but still turned in strong offensive and defensive efforts. Zoske, in his first year as NO's soccer coach, praised the play of Tom Melendres and Steve Welch-both of whom filled gaps left by injuries to regulars-and also credited the defensive play of center fullback Bruce Graves. 
Beth Notre Dame goals were tallied by center halfback Rich Eichner, whom Zoske lauded for an outstanding offensive effort. 
age of 12, and 45 percent drunks. the school administrators to keep So. in our training camp we cut our mt' around. ::-.tarting lineup and put in a team of ME: So what finally got the 2 women, Little Leaguers, and 4 Commissioner after the Maggots? skid-row types. Not good enough. YOGI: I think it was something I ME: What was the objection? did during the Smog-day That should have been enough to doubleheader against the Gary satisfy the Commissioner. Golden Buzzards. The pitching YOGI: Or so I thought. He Coach turned me in to the league demanded that I play a drunken office for chewing non-union first-grade girl, and make her the tobacco. pitcher to boot. But that's nothing ME: If vou win the Credentials compared to. . . Committee challenge, will you ME: Compared to what? plan to continue managing? YOGI: The method of electing a YOGI: No way. I saw what manager. The fans do it they've got planned for next year nowadays. In fact, but _for the and you wouldn't believe it. grace of the principal of Boss They're going to redistribute the Tweed High School I'd be pumping athletes' salaries to the bleacher gas this year. The fans packed the fans, allow minority reports on caucus and elected a 17-year-old judgement calls at first base, and libertarian stickball player. The double the number of players, principal, however, wouldn't give giving each one-half at-bat. At him the semester off to manage the least this isn't the Decaying Cities Maggots. But that put us on thin Football League, where they're ice with the Credentials Com-granting amnesty to NFL draft mittee, which felt we had bribed dodgers. pau1 Regan :munnmumunmmumnmuumunmuunnnumuunumnuuu 
Captain's Corner 
munmm1mmm1mnm•mnnumnmm•mmmmmmm•'The fan factor The hockey team has won four of its last five home games. Student support has played a key role. However, it was not always like this at Notre Dame. Earlier in our program we preferred to play at our opponents' rinks where there was more of an atmosphere of ex­citement. People from South Bend would come to see us but they wouldn't know much about the game. Our crowds reacted similar to those at tennis matches. Timid hand-clapping was the only sign of appreciatiou for a good play. Hockey fans do not act like that. The Fanatics, that group of avid cheerleaders, got the fans going in the right direction. For once there was some noise in the building. The Michigan and Michigan State series last year really brought hockey and the student-fans together. They cheered us on in their wild manner, and we were able to win three out of the four games-losing the other in overtime. Horns, drums, yelling, screaming, foot-stomping ... that's all part of a hockey game. You get a feeling of real excitement when you step onto the ice and hear cheers of encouragrnement instead of discouraging silence. When we start to slow down there is nothing that will pick us up quicker than student support. I had the privelege of attending the Russia-C--anada hockey game, in September, at Maple Leaf Gardens in Toronto. It is hard to explain how the fans picked that Canadian team up and cheered them on to a victory. In Russia it was the same. 3000 Canadians outcheered 12,000 Russians and helped Team Canada win a hockey series that will never be forgotten. Don't think those professional hockey players don't react to the encouragement. They do, and they were very quick to acknowledge this in their post-game interviews. This year our home games mean a great deal to us. We know that student support is worth a goal or two every game. No longer do people just watch a hockey game. They become involved in it. They recognize a good defensive play and cheer. It is important to watch for the that a player might do-things other than scoring a goal or getting into a fight. Mike Tardani holding the puck in the opposition's end to get a face­off when we are a man short or Les Larson going down to block a shot that may be a goal deserve as much recognition as scoring plays. Hockey is not only a game of scoring goals, it is also a game of stop­ping them. Believe me, these players who don't always score are juust as important to the team as those who do score. Our regular WCHA season opens up at home this weekend against the University of Michigan. We hope that we will again have the student support that we've had in our last five home games. Speaking for the team, I can assure you that this support will always be ap­preciated. 








