
Due to Inclement conditions, there will be no weather today. 


Vol. VI, No. 71 serving the notre dame-saint mary's community February 4, 1972 
Ulster Catholics to stage march 
by Bernard Weinraub ((') 1!172 New York Times 
Belfast, Northern Ireland, Feb. 3 --Northern 
Ireland civil rights leaders today announced plans 
for a massive march this Sunday, one week after 13 
Homan Catholic men were killed by British soldiers 
during a protest demonstration in Londonderry. 
The march, which would be illegal, will take place 
in the town of Newry, bordering the Irish Republic. 
Prime Minister Heath of Britain made a dramatic appeal today to Prime Minister Lynch of the Irish Hepublic as well as to Roman Catholic church leaders in Ireland and England to use their in­fluence to have the march called off. 
At the same time, the British army's joint security committee in Northern Ireland, made up of senior officers and Protestant.political figures in the area, announced that firm measures would be taken against the demonstrators. All marches have been banned in Northern Ireland by Prime Minister f<'aulkner. 
Heath's unusual move in sending letters to Lynch as well as Cardinal Conway, the primate of all Ireland, and Cardinal Heenan, leader of the Catholic Church in England and Wales, underlined the fears of new violence in the explosive mood that now engulfs Northern Ireland. 
Today, at a crowded news conference in a Belfast Hotel, four young catholic leaders -all under 30 ­announced the details of what they said would be a silent march. 
"This is a nonviolent civil rights march," said Kevin Boyle, a former Queens University student here who has meticulously studied accounts of the Hev. Dr. Martin Luther King's march in Selma, Alabama, in 1965. "We are not searching for a confrontation with the army. It will be a peaceful 
<'erective demonstration unless, that is, the British government intends to use its army to conduct a massacre of peaceful demonstrators." He added: 
"It's typical of Tory attitudes that Mr. Heath addressed his remarks to Cardinal Conway and Cardinal Heenan. Our demands are not sectarian. They are civil rights demands, affecting everyone." 
IHeginald Maulding, home secretary, asked the 

the carnival's here...... . 
The construction is finally finished -the Carnival opens for "business" Saturday at 7:00. 
Newry march organizers to "consider again the risks" and call it off. He was immediately rejected. "The danger of the action they propose is grave," 
England warns Ireland
Maulding said in a statement. "The responsibility on their shoulders is heavy." by Anthony Lewis "No chance whatsoever," replied an executive (C) 1972 New York Times News Service member of the Civil Rights Association. "Infact we 
London, Feb. 3 -Britain told the Dublin
;appeal to Mr. Maulding to think again about the 
Government today that its present critical
use of British troops and their murderous policy." 
attitude on the Ulster troubles could do
The Catholics civil rights demands, however, are 
"lasting damage" to Anglo-Irish relations.
clearly overshadowed by the anger and mourning 
The Foreign Secretary, Sir Alec Douglas­
that now engulf the minority community in Nor­
Home, took that firm line in exchanges in the 
thern Ireland, a province where two-thirds of the 
House of Commons. At one point he said:
population is Protestant The Protestants through 
"I must give a warning to the Irish
the ruling Unionist party, have dominated Northern 
Government that if they were to maintain the 
Ireland for the last 51 years. 
attitude they have tken -For example Dr. Hillery's speeches in New York yesterday ­Last Sunday, a march by Catholics in Lon­
they could do the most serious and lasting
donderry turned into one of the most violent 
damage to the relationship between our two 
<'pisodes in the tortured history of Northern Ireland. 
countries." British troops, claiming later to have been targets Dr. Patrick Hillery, the Irish Foreignof sniper attacks and nail bombs, opened fire and Minister, told a news conference at the United killed 13 men. The outragl:!d Catholic community Nations in New York yesterday that Britain said that the killings were unprovoked. was following "lunatic policies" in Northern Ireland. He accused British soldeirs of a "brutal
The decision to adhere to the scheduled march in 
onslaught" in the fatal shooting of 13 civilians
Newry was made after heated discussions among 
in Londonderry last Sunday. He called on the
Catholic leaders and some pressure by clergyment 
United States and other friends of Britain to
to cancel the demonstration. What had been in­
use pressure on her to change policy. 
tended as a relatively small march before Lon­
Since the Londonderry shootings the Dublin 
donderry has mushroomed now into a major 
Government in general has become much
Catholic protest as a result of last Sunday's 
more critical of Britain. This is sharply
violence. 
resented by Prime Minister Edward Heath and his conservative government here andCivil rights leaders said today that as many as 
the Hillery remarks evoked a partic~larly
20,000 marchers were expected in Newry, some of 
strong reaction -in private as in public.
them from across the border in the Irish Republic. 
There were rumors today that John Lynch, 
Officials said that at least 300 stewards would seek 
the Irish Prime Minister, might pat an early
to keep the mile-and-a-half march under control. It 
visit to Heath. The comment heard here was
is intended to end with a rally, at which speakers 
that he would be welcome for serious 
will include Bernadette Devlin, the militant Catholic 
discussions but not for what Heath considers 
member of the British Parliament, and local civil Hillery's inflamatory line. rights leaders. British officials showed deep disap­pointment this evening at the refusal of Ulster "We have seen enough deaths in Derry and we Civil Rights Leaders to cancel their scheduled want no violence," emphasized Rory McShane, the march in Newry this Sunday. civil rights leader in Newry. "The purpose of our The Londonderry tradegy began with a march is to peacefully demonstrate our rejection to march, and the fear is that there may be a the present regime, its policy of repression and similar result in Newry. Moreover the British point out that these Roman Cafuolic marches will inevitably be followed by
(continued on page 8) 
provocative Protestant marches. 
(continued on page 2) 

Senate meets 
No action on SBP rules 
yet. have to pass both the Assembly and The Notre Dame Student Senate 
killed last night a resolution that would The Election Committee is composed have delegated to the Student Govern­Senate by majority vote. 
of SBP John Barkett, SBVP Orlandomen Election Committee the respon­The bill lost by 16-9. Hodriguez, and the five Stay Senators.
sibility of negotiating the details of the In their meeting which followed theupcoming SBP elections with the 
The chief reason for the failure of the 
Senate meeting, the four-man ticketElection Committee from St. Mary's. 
bill. according to Stay Senator Fred 
plan met with opposition. The con­A second resolution passed that (;iuffrida, was that it was redundant. sensus was that the merger had not yet
"It does nothing to alter the current
required INPRIG to recieve the proceeded to the point where such an signatures of two-thirds of the student situation," said Giuffrida. election was advantageous. 
body in order to put the optional $3.00 per year fee on the student bill. The The Senate also decided to support other business for the Election vote was unanimous. the principles and aims of the Indiana Committee concerned procedures for 
Public Interest Research Group. IN­the up coming election. PRIG is attempting to collect a $3.00
The reso.lution. proposed by Stay 
per student fee from all Indiana
Senator, Jim Clarke, suggested that the February 29th will be the date for
Colleges so that they may have the
Student Senate and the Election 
first ballot voting with March 2nd the
funds needed to hire lawyers and
Committee form a proposal concerning date for a possible run-off vote. It was
professional staff workers on a state­

the SBP election. Following a meeting also decided taht each candidate would 
wide basis.
of the St. Mary's and Notre Dame be allowed to spend no more that election committees, the proposal 
$250.00 on his campaign.
The senators present concurred with 
would then be presented to both the 
what the Election Committee later
Notre Dame Senate and the St. Mary's decided. They seemed to think that A joint meeting of th Notre Dame

Assembly. seperate elections with voluntary Election Committee and the Election For a proposal, other than seperate coalitions would be best, especially Committee from St. Mary's is elections, to become effective it would since the schools are not mer_ged as of scheduled for Sunday evening. 

Page 2 THE OBSERVER 
Pal"is--The Vietcong revised their seven-point peace plan Thursday, 


notes from all over---­
Rev. Joseph L. Walter, C.S.C., chairman of the Department of Preprofessional Studies at the University of Notre Dame, has been named to the Committee on Liason with External Organizations of the Association of American Medical Colleges. The committee is concerned with fostering cooperative relations between the AAMC and such outside organizations as the American College Health Association, student organizations and various Federal agencies. 
Father Walter has also been named to three committees 

Ulster catholics prepare for march 
(continued from page I) 
But officials were not surprised that Heath's pleas for cancellation of the march were rejected. They know that emotions are running high in the Ulster Catholic com­munity -and they know how much history affects anything suggested from Britain. 
Sir Alec condemned the burning of the British Embassy in Dublin as "an outrage." He told the House of Commons that British diplomats yesterday had repeatedly warned the Irish about the crowd gathering outside 

Psych. Dept. open house 
by Beth Hall The Department of Psychology Wednesday invited all members "of the Notre Dame community" to an Open House on Friday, February 4th from 2 to 5 PM. According to a press release, visitors will view demonstrations of research equipment, faculty projects, and video tapes of faculty work with the retarded and aged. According to assistant professor of psychology, Dr. Ellen Ryan, "The purpose of the Open House is to show the campus what the department is doing education-wise and to show how the work we're doing may tie in with other departments." The psychology faculty "welcomes discussion about possible collaboration with other department in teaching and research," Dr. Ryan asserted. Following the building tour, the department plans to serve refreshments in room 206. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre 
Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 

within the Central Association of Advisors for the Health Professions. They are the Executive Committee, the American Medical College Ap­plication Service Advisory Committee and the Nominating of Committee. 
-----New Scholarship . An endowed scholarship fund for graduate students in the 
University of Notre Dame's program, organized in 1967 is College of Business Ad-currently providing advan~ed ministration has been established training for a record 156 students with a $4~,000 gift ~rom the Steber representing 85 undergraduat~ Foundabon of Chicago. colleges, 28 states and 16 foreign
To be known as the Clarence countries. 
MAIN CHURCH SUNDAY MASSES 

5:15pm Sat. 9:30am Sun. 10:45 am Sun. 
12:15 pm Sun. 



WINTER CONSORT 
Sunday Feb. 13 7:30 pm in the ACC Tickets $2.50, $3.50 & $4.50 on Sale Tonight in the Dining Halls presented by Social Commission and the ACC 
the embassy, but protective measures were not taken. 
Labor members moined in deploring the burning but went on to urge an early political initiative by the government in Northern Ireland. The shadow foreign secretary, Denis Healey, said: 
"The situation between the United Kingdom and the Irish Republic has dangerously deteriorated in recent days, and if it is to be improved, some initiative is required from this side of the Irish Sea no less that from the other side." 
Sir Alec did not pick up the suggestion. Indications are that the Heath Government is considering various political moves but is not ready for a decision yet. Much may depend on what happens at Newry. 
Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. Fr. Jim Buckley, C.S.C. Fr. Aidan Kavanagh O.S.B. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 
and Helen Steber Scholarship Fund, the proceeds of the gift will be used for scholarship aid for students in the Master of Business Administration program at Notre Dame, ac­cording to Dean Thomas T. Murphy. · The Steber Foundation was the 
private foundation of the father of a 1960 Notre Dame graduate,William C. Steber. The Notre Dame graduate 
"GRADUATE EDUCATION HOW BRIGHT IS THE FUTURE?" ' a lecture by Dr. Robert E. Gordon Vice-President of Advanced Studies Library Auditorium 8:00 pm 
Monday, February 7, 1972 SPONSORED BY THE GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 

world 
briefs 
<c> 1972 New York Times 

and the revised version presented at the Paris peace talks appeared more conciliatory to the current Saigon gov~rnment. The new p~an called for the immediate resignation of President Nguyen Van Thieu but added that they could then negotiate with the South Vietnamese government if it changes its policies of war and repression. The Vietcong called President Nixon's eight-point plan "unacceptable." 
Washington--Secretary of State Rogers attacked Sen .. Edmu~d. S. Muskie's two-point peace plan and accused the Senator of Jeo~rdlZ~ng the Paris talks by rejecting Nixon's plan before the Commurusts did. Rogers's remarks appeared to be the latest in a major administration offensive against Muskie. 
San Fl"ancisco-An examination of random selections from Clifford Irving's purported autobiography of H~ward R. Hugh~ indicat~ that the book may have been compiled enbrely from prev10usly pubhshed anecdotes about the billionaire. 
Washington--In an action without precedent in modern congressional history, Senate republicans voted to relieve Sen. Karl E. Mundt, who has been disabled since he suffered a stroke in November, 1969 of three miportant committee assignments. The vote was a vict~ry for a rising generation of younger Republican Senators. 
on campus 
friday 

2-5 p.m. open house, dept. of psychology; psych building 
3:30, 7:00, 9:00, film, last grasp film series, "cat and mouse", carroll hall. $.75. 8:30p.m. mardi gras, kick-off party, south 
bend armory, $5 couple. saturday 
3:30 p.m. discussion, justice porter stewart presiding, memorial library auditorium 
7:00p.m. mardi gras, carnival. 
nd-smc 

THE OBSERVER Page 3 

''Summa'' overreaches 
Notre Dame's five year with the interest the money ac­development program, "Sum-cumulated. rna," has raised more than $6.5 When the project stated the million over its goal despite University hoped to able to obtain failing to meet the goals of some 40 endowed professorships, but at of its individual projects, ac-the present, Murphy said, less cording to James Murphy, than 20 have been pledged and assistant vice president for some of those have not been filled public relations and develop-because of administrative ment. delays. 
Murphy reported that the Among those projects that have program had received a total of met their goals, Murphy singled $58,658,834 in gifts and pledges as out the project to increase of December 30 last year, which student aid as one of the over­is 113 per cent of the original goal. subscribed projects in "Sum­
"Summa" which end June 30th rna". Although "Summa" still is made of 21 separate programs has about five months left, the or projects which together have a project for increased student aid combined goal of 52 million has already received more dollars. money than anticipated, ac-
While "Summa" has been able cording to Murphy. to exceed that amount, it has not, Murphy indicated that according to Murphy, been able "Summa" has already received to meet the goal of all the over 30,000 gifts in raising the $58 projects individually. The million, over 23,000 of which were project is the last of three capital given by alumni who contributed development programs by the $24.1 million. He also pointed out University. that of this sum, over $7.2 million 
Murphy said that one project was contributed by the Board of that has not met its goal is the Trustees of the University. project to increase the number of According to Murphy, the endowed professorships among remaining $34.5 million was the Faculty. Under this project contributed by corporations, the University would be able to foundations, and friends of the hire one professor for each half University. million dollars it was able to Together the three programs obtain in pledges and gifts. The have been responsible for the professor's salary would be paid construction of the Memorial 
for Youth Advocacy Program 
Library, ACC, and Grace and Flanner Towers. Murphy em­phasized that after "Summa" the University does not intend to have another capital giving program in the foreseeable future, but will instead focus attention on annual giving. 
Freshman class sponsors dance Saturday night 
This Saturday night, February 5, the Freshman Class will sponsor a dance to be held on the second floor of the LaFortune Center from 8:00 to 11:00 pm. 
The band "Chapped Lips" will be featured. There will be $1.00 admission. Since the event will be limited to Notre Dame and St. Mary's freshmen, ID's must be presented. 
The dance is not primarily a fund raising event but is being held, according to Freshman Class Vice President Susan Schneider, as an "activity for the class." She added that more such events are being planned for the future. 
CRC outlines funding plans 
The Community Relations Commission of Student Govern­ment has announced plans to raise funds for the Youth Ad­vocacy Program of South Bend . The Commission will have a booth at the Mardi Gras carnival to sell Budweiser Tiffany Glasses filled with 48 hour scented Willwrick Candles with all profits from the sales going to Youth Advocacy. 
Dave Lah, Community Relations Commissioner, ex­plained that Youth Advocacy is a model action agency of the Youth Development and Delinquency Prevention Administration of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, and is under the direction of the Urban and Welfare, and is under the direction of the Urban Coalition and the Youth Coalition of St. Joseph's County. 
It consists of five major components to foster youth development and combat juvenile delinquency: 
I) Street Academy -A joint effort with the National Urban League to provide educational training in a flexible atmosphere for sixty school drop-outs over the age of sixteen. The relationship between delinquency and drop-out status has been well docurrrented; this segment of the program attempts to alleviate this problem by offering con­structive alternatives to juvenile crime. 
2lField Service Workers -To effect institutional change and make institutions more responsive to the needs of youth as perceived by youth via the Youth Coalition, six liaison workers have been placed with the South Bend Community School Corporation, South Bend Recreation Commission, Family and Children's Center, City­Country Government, Model Cities, and Youth Coalition (administrative assistant.) 

3) Counseling Center -A facility open from 9:00 a.m. to 
10:00 p.m., the Counseling Center employs a highly experienced staff to provide counseling and testing and vocational advice to walk-ins or referrals from community agencies. In-depth individual, family, and group counseling is being provided for youth referred from juvenile probation. 
4) Community Service Workers -Ten street youth attend youth functions arjd ride school buses in an attempt to prevent distur­pances and vandalism. 
Legal Assistant-A lawyer and two legal interns defend youth interests through class action suits and are in the process of developing a law curriculum for all levels of school students. 
Lah explained that in addition to these major components, Youth Advocacy and Youth Coalition anve initiated several projects to develop youth leadership and prevent juvenile crime. Among them include a 
r---~~~~~~~­
HOURS, MON • TUES -THUtt • FRI 
9 AM 5:30PM WED -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON COMPLETE SPilCTACLE
RoGERS 
SERVICE 
ALL fYE DR.'S PRESCRIPTIONS HONORE[
Optical 
eall 
289-7809
ROGER ATWELL • OWN!R 

Christmas Employment Program which provided a three week period of employment for 80 pre-delinquent and un­derprivileged youth prior to Christmas to attempt to prevent Property crimes associated with the holiday season, and a Thanksgiving basket and Christmas toys drive. 
The candle-glass sell for $2.50 a pair, $13.50 a half-dozen, and $24.00 a dozen. If one does not have the opportunity to visit Mardi Gras, the candle-glasses will be available for sale in the Student Government Offices on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center, or they can be 
ordered by calling 7668 and giving you namd and address for delivery. All checks should be 
made payable to Notre Dame 
Student Govenment. Lah expressed the hope that the drive would be very SUCCessful 
and that many members of the campus community would
participate. 
Placement Bureau 
JOB INTERVIEWS FOR THE WEEK OF FEBRUARY 14 _ 
Interviews are open toN D and SMC seniors and graduate students. Sign up schedules are in Room 207, Main Building. Select your own time and sign your name. Room 207 will be open at 8:00am until 5:00pm each day, 
except Friday. 

Consult the Placement Manual tor additional information regarding interviews and procedure. 
r cb. 14 r IRES TONE Tl R E & RUBBER CO. BS, MS in Ch.E., E. E., M.E. and Chern. FIRESTONE TNDUSTRIAL RUBBER PRODUCTS CO. BS in M.E., E. E., Ch.E. ilnd Engr. Sci. BBA in Acct. and MKT. FIRESTONE STEEL PRODUCTS CO. BS in M.E. BBA in Mgt. KAWN EE R COMPANY, INC. BS in Engr. BA and BBAtor Arch. Sales Reps. LEVER BROTHERS COMPANY. BA or BBA. 
I cb. 14 15 

FIRESTONE TIRE & RUBBER CO. BA or BBA. Primarily interested in students who rank in upper halt of their class. 
r cb. 15 CITY NATIONAL BANK OF DETROIT. BBA-all Depts. DETROIT BANK AND TRUST. BBA and MBA. (changed from Feb. 17. GENERAL MILLS, INC. AB, BBA or MBA. NATIONAL STEEL CORP. BS in C. E., M.E., M.E.I.O. RS, Ms in Ch.E. and Met. SAGA FOOD SERVICE. BA and BBA. TOLEDOEDISONCO. BS,MSinE.E.andM.E. TORRINGTON CO. BS in M.E. and M.E.I.O. Feb. 16 BABCOCK & WILCOX CO. BS in C. E. BS, MS in C'1.E., E.E., M.E. ilnd Met. BRUNSWICK CORPORATION. BS,MS in M.E. and E.E. BBA in Acct. and Mkt. CONTAINER CORPORATION OF AMERICA. BS in M.E. and E. E. 
FEDERAL COMMUNI CATIONS COMMISSION. All degree levels in E.E. 
GENERAL TIRE & RUBBER CO. BS in Ch.jE.,M.E., M.E.I.O. and Chemistry. BBA in Acct. LINCOLN NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE CO. BA and BBA. BS, MS in Math METROPOLITAN Ll FE INSURANCE CO. BAand BBA for Sales. 
U.S. GENERAL ACCOUNTING OFFICE. BBA in Acct., Fin. and Mgt. MBA. Feb. 17 
GENERAL FOODS CORP. BS, MS in Chern., Ch.E., E.E., M.E. and M.E.I.O. BBA m Acct. and Fin. MBA PROVIDENT MUTUAL LIFE INS. CO. BAand BBA 
KURT SALMON ASSOCIATES, INC. BS in M.E.I.O. BS, MS in Engr. Sci. Feb. 18 AMdEMR IECAN AI R FILTER CO., INC. BS, MS in M.E., E.E., Ch.E., C.E. iln ..1.0 . 
EASTMANKODAKCO. BS,MSinCh.E.,M.E.andChem. 
GENERAL MOTORS CORP. MBA. 
LIBBEY OWENS-FORD. BS in Ch.E., C.E. MAGNAVOXCO. BS in E.E., M.E. and Ch.E. SUNDSTRAND CORP. BS in M.E. 
U.S. NAVAL WEAPONS LABORATORY. BS, MS in E. E., M.E. and Physics. 
WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CORP. BSin E.E. MS,MSinM.E. BBA with minimum of 12 hours of Acct. 
l_______:..:.......::..:.......:.~:.:..:...:...:::_:__:.::::::.:~----------____j 

• 
The True luxury Car! 

• 
The World's Most Unique Carl 

• 
Voted The luxury Car Of The Year! 


See The 
CITROEN-SM, A$12,000 BEAUTY The Car Voted The Most luxurious Car Of The Year for 1972, Plus The Car Of The Year Award! 

Page .4 THE OBSERVER 
THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-f'hief. Glen S. Corso Assistant Editor .\ssislant l':ditor 
All successful newspapers are John Abowd ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never ~::fend
Rusiness Manager ar1yone or anything if they can help .\dvt'rtising :\lanager 
Jim Jendryk it; if the job is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else. 
T.C. Treanor 
H.L. Mencken 

From the Editor's Desk 
Scorn when Scorn is Due 
Newton knew what he was talking about when he claimed that for every action there is an equal reaction. There was plenty of evidence to attest to the truth of tha ttheory in the letters pages of the Observer last week and this. It seems that an editorial ripping Sr. Alma, Acting President of St. Mary's upset a lot of people--particularly those who work for or with her. 
Their outrage is hardly a phenomena. Each institution has its share of official or unofficial apologists who are more than ready to sit down and crank out a protest to something that offends their sensibilities. That these protests should condemn the act in language remarkably similar to that used in the original, blasphemous, editorial is always a source of ironic amusement. So's the condescending remarks received from high administrators about how the editorial writer should learn the "facts of life''. 
Editorials cannot and should not be meekly worded or mealy mouthed when they are discussing a person or situation with whom they disagree. By doing so the writer cheats everyone--the readers, the people being attacked and himself. No one, after reading the monstrosity, can sure if the writer thinks the subject of his opprobrium is important enough to get excited about, or whether it is simply a piece written to fill up space. The person, or persons criticized reach the same conclusions--something they did offended the writer, but not that offending because the criticism was couched in the fawning platitudes that abound in American editorial writing. 
The editorial that doesn't take a strong stand, the editorial that doesn't state clearly and concisely the writer's feelings on the matter at hand isn't worth a damn. It is a meaningless ineffectual bit of boobery that could have, and probably was cranked out by a third rate hack, a hack similar to those who occupy the editorial chairs of most newspapers. 
An editorial can't take the safe middle ground, it can't compromise with reality and it can't vacillate. If a person needs to be ripped, and ripped badly, then so be it. If an institution deserves scorn and villifica tion then so be it. 
There is a place, occassionally, for editorials that praise someone or some thing. The type of editorials that radiate sunny optimism, cheer­fulness and happiness, should be aired from time to time. 
There isn't much place for these editorials when supposedly intelligent clerics are spitting venom at each other over a merger of two institutions, or when the word is out that a committee formed to search for a university Vice President will seek a yes man to placate the ego of another top official. 
Good things can and do happen at Notre Dame, but so do ugly things. They are the things that hurt Notre Dame and this paper intends to pursue them and heap scorn on them, whenever it can. 
The Gang 
Nite Editor: Jim McDermott Ass't Nite Editor: Ann McCarry Layout Headlines, and other assorted merriment: Art Esposito, Marlene Zloza Visitors and Problems: Ed Ellis, John Abowd, TC Treanor, Jack Frishcorn, Mike the kid from Badin, Tom Bornholdt, Marty Miller, the Moviemaker, Dan Barett, Dan Ryan, and assorther other riff-raff. 
Is there enough snow for you, Joe? 
Hey, Kathy! This is the pits! 

The Second Editorial-------­
Give Shelter 
Deborah Kerr 

There is a semblance of order in this community. There is the nr>arly predictable AC-DC decision-making gymnastics concerning issues of merger, co-education, dis-merger, co-ed dorms, merger. There are nine o'clock classes which will be attended providing the previous night's constellations were properly arranged in the heavens. There are papers which will be written, phone calls that will get made, books that eventually will be read. There is gambling to be done, there are friends who will meet for a drink, there are dates to be made, a few deadlines unfortunately looming. All is as it should be, the clock keeps ticking, "God's in his heaven and all's well on the earth." 
But in the midst of this order there runs a rampant clown with a tragic mask. He hardly entertains and rarely brings mirth. The community needs to be aware of him and needs to protect itself against him. 
It is a generally accepted fact that the St. Mary's-Notre Dame 
campus is a shelter from many of the colder facts of life. The women 
walk freely between dorms and classroom buildings at any hour, 
naively unescorted. The fact that this is a small, rather isolated area 
brings a small degree of security in this practice. It is the time for 
these women to consider incidents occurring on this campus and to act 
then with their own safety and best interests in mind. 
The hours kept by the average student are decidedly different than 
those kept by people outside the community. Coming in at 3:30 AM is 
hardly unusual, nor is it unusual for a woman, having her car at her 
disposal, to come in alone. It would not be very unusual for her to meet 
a young man while walking from the parking lot to the dorm and 
perhaps •exchange a few words with him. The innocence of this ends, 
however, when the young man chooses to expose himself to her. 
The intrigue of the anonymous phone call begins with freshman year 
and continues, with decreasing frequency, through senior year. It has 
happened, on occasion that friendships have developed from the phone 
game. Perhaps one caller will call several times, giving an im­
pression of responsibility and good will. The game ends when a coed 
decides to meet the caller. He may ask her to come to the entrance 
alcove of the SMC Coffee Shop with him. When she refuses he forces 
her to come, abuses her, then exposes himself to her. Not a pleasant 
game after all. 
The merger, as most members of the community know, occurred 
years ago. Visitation, with or without official sanction, is common 
practice on the campus. It is less common, but still a practice, that 
men visit in women's dormitories. This can be brought about by 
merely opening a back door or window after hours. 
At a nearby, midwestern university such practice brought one more 
visitor than was expected. A coed, anticipating a visit from her 
boyfriend, propped open the back door to her dorm. While it was open, 
a man walked in and raped the coed's roommate in her room. 
Considering recent incidents, including at least three rapes on 
campus, this can hardly be dismissed with "It won't happen here." 
The security force cannot be everywhere at all times. The com­
munity must cooperate for the good of its members. If such openness 
and back-door hospitality is to continue as it has in the past, perhaps it 
is time to institute 24-hour open dorms for the safety of sister and 
brother students. 
During the recent fire in McCandless hall, not a serious yet a prime 
example, one brave young man chose to remain hidden in the dorm 
during the evacuation and subsequent fire-fighting procedures. This 
Promethean spirit evidently feared not the consequence of the fire 
which may have been more serious than suspected due to confusion in 
procedures concerning its extinction. 
With the inauguration of open dorms and the free use of only one 
entrance there would be no need for the fire escapes of Holy Cross, the 
back doors of Regina, Augusta, and McCandless, the windows of 
LeMans to be easy means of admission for the perverted clown. 
If parietals are not instituted, then it is time for more publicity 
concerning such incidents as described here to show the community 
the need not for boarding-school lock-ups, but merely for ·responsible 
behavior in this dancing, joyous, and sometimes grotesque com­
munity. 
If parietals are not instituted, then it is time for more publicity concerning such incidents as described here to show the community the need not for boarding-school lock-ups, but merely for responsible behavior in this dancing, joyous, and sometimes grotesqque com­munity. 


February 4, 1972 
THE OBSERVER 
Moreau Seminary increasing enrollment 
University. Thus, though the end of minor
by Greg Rowinski 

The seminarians receive half­seminaries seems to indicate a
Insight Starr Reporter 

scholarships to the University drop in seminary enrollment, this Moreau Seminary, located and are obliged to pay the other decrease is more than across St. Joseph's Lake from half themselves. Room and board replenished by the "more stable"Notre Dame's North Quad, has a at the seminary is free for students who enter the majorcurrent enrollment of 75 members of the Holy Cross Or­seminaries. Fr. Putz gave the
seminarians, with 30 faculty 
der but students from other example that, while the formermembers also living on the congregations must pay these number of dropouts at Christmaspremises. 
fees, Fr. Putz indicated. He time averaged from 10 to 15, theThis number shows no drop , at emphasized that Moreau doesn't present average is 1 or 2.
least in the last three years, belong to the University. Rather, The seminary has a fairlyaccording to Fr. Louis Putz, it belongs to the Holy Cross Or­intense recruitment program,superior of the seminary. In fact, der. according to Fr. Putz. It usesl<'r. Putz sees a trend to an in­J{t•cruitment Changes flyers, vocational directors whocreasing number of students at travel "all over the U.S." , and
Fr. Putz's optimism in the
the seminary. 
newspaper ads, many in campus
number of vocations stems, in
l<,r. Putz limited his view of the publica lions. 
part from the switch in em­
trend to the last three years, the This program is aimed at the
phasis from minor seminaries to
time in which the Seminary has students with four qualities: a
college seminaries and graduate
been a graduate theological genuine desire to enter thetheological schools.
college. Before this time, Moreau priesthood and the motivation to
Formerly, students were ap­
was a college seminary. 
see his vocation through, the
proached before high school to
Now, all of its students attend necessary talents, maturity and
enter minor seminaries. The
the University for their academic stability, and service con­
students were then screened
educations. The students live and while in the high school-minor sciousness. 
are trained "spiritually and 
seminary. This system resulted Service Orientedpastorally" at the seminary, in a high attrition rate. This last factor is especiallyaccording to Fr. Putz. 
Now, minor seminaries have important. Fr. Putz sees theThe students take all their been done away with, and priest's role as becoming moreundergraduate courses, in­colleges are being tapped for and more service-oriented. Itcluding theology, at Notre Dame. 
vocations. Students are found and 
Graduate courses are held at requires an awareness and a 
screened after high school, giving close working relationship withMoreau, more for convenience 
than any other reason, but are them a better chance of "finding the community he is working in, a <'~ill under the auspices of the themselves", Fr. Putz said. change from the old idea of the 
Canadian Statesman Martin to speak 
the minister of labour and two 
Paul Martin, a veteran years later served one year as Canadian statesman and the secretary of state. In 1946 he was leader of his country's govern­appointed minister of national ment in the senate, will speak health and welfare, beginning 11 Monday, Feb. 7, on "Canada and years of social welfare legislation Her Mightly Neighbors." His 8 which included the country's 
p.m. address in the auditorium of national health program. the CPnter for Continuing Although his ministerial I<:ducation is open to the public. responsibilities concerned 
Martin's talk, which is spon­domestic matters, he maintained sored by the Institute for In­his active role in the work of the ternational Studies at the United Nations and its subsidiary University, is expected to treat organizations. From 1963 to 1968, Canada's relations with the when he was appointed leader of United States, Russia and China. the government in the senate, he 

Martin, a native of Ottawa, was secretary of state for ex­
Paul Martin, Canadian
Ontario, was educated at Saint ternal affairs. He headed 
statesman, appearing on campus
Michael's College and the Canadian delegations to NATO, 
Monday.
Osgoode Hall Law School in the United Nations, and other Toronto and at Harvard international bodies. NATO in 1965 and was a member University, Cambridge llniversity He played an active role in the of the Canadian delegations to the and the Geneva School of In­negotiations with the United Council of Europe at Strasbourg
ternational Studies. He holds States which resulted in the in May, 1969. honorary degrees from 17 signing of the Columbia River There will be a reception for universities. Treaty and the Canada-United Martin in the Center for Con­
He was elected to the House of States Automobile Trade tinuing Education following his Commons in 1935 and in 1938 was Agreement. He also played a lecture. an official delegate to the 19th prominent role in the establish­
assembly of the League of ment of a United Nations Nations. In 1943 he was ap­peacekeeping force in Cyprus in 

priest living isolated in his rec­home on the various breaks, tory. according to one seminarian, 
Fr. Putz sees a "servant while the graduate students 
priest", rather than a "pontiff normally remain at the priest." The priest today, he said, seminary, due to the time in­seeks only "to be treated as an volved in travel, since many are equal". from the east, and the fact that 
This equal standing begins in many work in South Bend. All the seminarians have single 
the seminary. Here, the rooms, simply because the roomsseminarians maintain a policy of are not big enough for two, ac­
" no special privileges" for the cording to one of the students. 
priests. The impetus for the equal 
treatment came from the 
students, Fr. Putz said, and will 
..................... 

undoubtedly continue after their ordinations. The seminarians' lives are similar to those of other ND 
HELD OVER 

students. Since all are students, 
they can keep in contact with the 
''DOCTOR

rest of the ND community. They have their own gym, but also use the Rock for swimming: Other campus activities also serve as 
ZHIVAGO" 

diversions for the seminarians. 
Some of the seminary's faculty 
teach at Notre Dame. Others 
work in neighboring parishes and 
Sat; Sun At II

teach in some of the area's high 
1:10 4:35 8:30

schools. A number of the students 
also work in the parishes and 
Week Days At 

schools, while some work in town. 
7:30

The undergraduates usuall:y go 
SMC Last Grasp Fi ms 
Gunter Grass' 
Cat And Mouse 
Feb. 4th, Friday Only 
3:37 and 9:00 pm CARROl HAll, SMC 75~ 
Starts Tonight! 
Open 6:15 

You may be right! 
1H€'£AR OF lH€ CAHHIDAL~ 

O'Brien condemns boxing 

Page 6 THE OBSERVER 
by Art Quinn 

Fr. O'Brien -had an article published in the Chicago Tribune condemning the Joe Frazier ­Terry Daniels fight and has written to the President of the American Broadcasting Com­pany "asking him in the interest of American youth to discontinue carrying it (prizefights)." 
Rev. John A. O'Brien, research professor of theology here, and a longtime critic of prizefighting, is making an effort to get national legislation passed to ban televised boxing matches. 
Fr. O'Brien said, "I would like to see action on a national scale since the fight _was seen on 
J:~=~=t7~;~;;;;;S;t:;==;;~;:=;=:=::;f;~::::::b=;=:=:=M:~:~ t Court Jurist 
by Bob Cosentino 
The honorable Potter Stewart, justice of the United States Supreme Court, will be one of the presiding jurists in the 22nd annual Moot Court competition at Notre Dame's Law School Saturday, February 5. The public is invited to the 8:30p.m. program in the Memorial Library auditiorium. 
According to Professor Peter Thornton of the Law School, the student directed competition will be actually "a mock appellate argument of the Calley case. The national case this year involves habeas corpus for a soldier convicted in the military-justice system and imprisoned for crimes in Viet Nam." 
The four top students of the Law School participants will prepare cases for both sides of the My Lai incident and present them to the jury. "The students will be judged purely on presentation and oral arguments," commented Thornton. "The ultimate ob­jective is to pick the top man." 
The two contestants with the highest scores will receive the Dean's Award. established in 1950 by former Dean Clarence Manion. First place prize will be $150 while $100 will go to the second-place finisher. Com­petition for the 1972 Moot Court began in the fall of 1970 with 30 participants. 
Third year law students par­ticipating in the finals of the Moot Court include Joseph R. McFadden, Jr., John H. Suminski, Dennis M. Tushla and Thomas L. Bodnar. McFadden, Suminski, and Tushla represented Notre Dame in the preliminary National com­petition in Chicago. Bodnar placed number one in the London competition in England last year. 
Joining Justice Stewart on the jury panel will be Judge Shirley Hufstedler of the United States Court of Appeals in Los Angeles and Justice Roger DeBruler of the Supreme Court of Indiana. 
Officers of the court are Paul L. Binder, Thomas P. Dovidio, Berry G. O'Connell, Kernan F. Cunningham, and Mark E. Morley. 
"A Conversation with Justice Stewart" will be presented 3:30 

p.m. on Saturday in the Memorial Library auditorium. Faculty 
THE NOTRE DAME SCIENCE QUARTERLY 
IS REORGANIZING AND NEEDS TALENTED NO & SMC STUDENTS 
Meeting: Monday, February 7 7:00pm Rm 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 
Frosh Dance 
Tomorrow Night 
Featuring 
Chapped Lips 
Second Floor LaFortune 8-1 1 Admission $1 Freshmen Only 
lllembers of the law school and the Government department will be available for informal discussion. 
Earlier that day Judge Shirley Hufstedler will join Grace Olivarez, the first woman to graduate from Notre Dame's Law School in 1970, and Mrs. Kay Larkin, of the first all female law firm in the country, in a group discussion of women in law from 
1:30 to 3:30 p.m. in the library lounge. 
Student presentations will be presented from 9-11:30 a.m. in the lounge. Topics of the meeting will include women's attitudes in the legal profession and "Are Women Encouraged to Settle for 
Less?" 

j 
l 





waS\l.in4m_ ~~ wi\.h. -\he 
)(:il\{oiJ 

~-rin<b 

'The~d. ~t»\,el 

national television." He hopes ring, while an uncounted army of that some national organization brain-damaged, punch-drunk ex­will undertake the campaign. boxers eke out an existence in a shadow land." He went on to 
Commenting on the fact that state, "It is difficult to believe Frazier received a quarter of a that the American people want to million dollars for his 12 minute have such cruel, barbarous, and fight, he wondered about "the debasing exhibitions carried into strange scale of values we hold their homes." 
up to our youth." ti---
~~-J'AI•ml• Fr. O'Brien said that since this was the first heavyweight title fight to be carried on national TV since Muhammad Ali knocked out Zora Folley on March 22, 1967, he would like to "crystallize public opinion against it now" before the networks start broadcasting more. 
Additionally, Fr. O'Brien pointed out that "since 1900 more than 400 men have died as a result of iniuries received in the 
Hey! Do You Know That You Don't Have To Be 21 To Play Pool At 
FRANKIE'S? 
Everyday Specials -Ocean Perch $1.25 -10 oz. Rib-Eye Steak -V2 Breasted Chicken  $1.5() $1.50  
Includes Tureen Soup, Salad,  

Bread, Butter And Coffee 
-mal\,cli 
~~ 


THE OBSERVER 
Page 7 

Hapless Irish lose another, 97-87 

by Eric Kinkopf 

Don Silinski for an easy lay-up The Irish responded to Digger's Leading 48-42 at halftime, the with 1:06 left in the half. time-out as Gary Novak layed Irish just couldn't find the bucket After a missed Mountaineer one in, and Tom O'Mara scored 
at the beginning of the second on a feed from Don Silinski, after 
shot, the Irish came right back,
half, and dropped their seventh in padding their lead on an eight Slink had stolen the ball off the a row by a score of 97-87 to the Irish press.
footer from the baseline by Gary 
Mountaineers of West Virginia. Novak making the score 46-42. The game sea-sawed back and 
The ND roundballers turned in forth for the next seven minutes
The Irish press, which ham­
a good game all the way around, until Wil Robinson hit a ten-footer
pered the Mountaineers during
but this time as before, it just from the vaseline at 9:39 of the
the first half, forced the West
wasn't good enough. second half, putting the Moun­
Virginians into a turnover with
Digger's kids played the taineers back in the lead for good. 
nine seconds left in the half. Don
Virginians even throughout most Silinski came up with the loose The Irish managed a few weak of the first half, and then came on ball, passed to Mike Townsend, charges after that, closing the strong in the last three minutes of who was fouled by Chris WV lead to four, 80-76, on a Tom 
the half to take the six point lead. Springer. O'Mara corner shot with 6: 16left. Trailing 40-37 with 3: left in the But in the next six minutes the 
Mife converted the one-and­
first stanza, Mike Townsend lead a Mountaineers outscored the Irish 
one situation with only three
fast break down the floor and fed seventeen to eleven, and that was 
seconds left on the clock and the
Tom O'Mara for the lay-up to cut the ball game.
Irish went to the lockerroom with 
the WV lead to 40-39. 
Wil Robinson paced the
a lead for the first time in a long
O'Mara was fouled by Mike time. Mountaineers with 39 points, on 
Cartson under the WV basket fourteen from the field and 11 of
But the second half was more
with less than two minutes left, 13 from the charity stripe. Curtis 
true to the script.
and converted the charity toss to Price added 16, and Mike Heitz even the score at 40 all. Digger1s kids have been chipped in with 14. Gary Novak stole the ball off pl-agued all year by cool shooting 
Gary Novak led the Irishthe Irish press, fed the ball to hands after intermission, and last charge with 24 points, TomChris Stevens, who flipped to night's !lame was no exception. 
O'Mara added 23, and one of theMike Townsend, hitting him in Sonny~Moran's team came out forgotten members of the NDfull stride for the go-ahead points, of the dressing room on fire, and basketball team, Don Silinski42-40 at 1:44. outscored the Irish 9-2 before dropped in eighteen.
Mountaineer Mike Carson hit Digger called time-out at 16:54. on a 12 footer to even the score at Wil Robinson led the Moun­West Virginia coach Sonny 42-42, but Gary Novak, grabbing taineer surge, fast breaking to Moran felt that his team was 
on hampered by early foul trouble
a rebound his own shot, seven of the Mountaineer first 
seconds later, shoveled the ball to nine points. as Mike Heitz had three and Dave 
Weekend Minor 
Sports 
•
action 

Four of Notre Dame's winter sports teams--with a lofty 17-4 overall record--will be active this weekend but only the unbeaten fencers are scheduled for home action. 
The Irish fencers entertain Tom ()'Mara lays on in orf the front end of an Irish fast break. 
Milwaukee Tech Friday at 7 p.m. 
in the Athletic and Convocation Alex Wilson's thinclads compete in the National CatholicCenter and then Chicago Circle, received double victories from Tournament in Cleveland Friday Wisconsin Parkside and Oberlin freshman Eric Penick and and Saturday. Freshman on Saturday starting at 1:30 p.m. 
veteran Tom McMannon and a heavyweight Mike Fanning, whoThe fencers are 4-o with vic­record 59-8 effort from rookie won two meets last week withtories over Vanderbilt, Indiana, pins in the final match, is 13-o
Greg Cortina in the shot put
Cornell and Tri-State. 
with 12 of the victories coming
against Miami. Penick won the 60 
via the oin rontP.
Notre Dame's indoor track and 300 vard dashes in 6.3 and The swimmers, 4-2 following ateam. opening it campaign with 
:!2.1 respectively while 
an impressive 87-44 win over split against Bradley (59-46) and
Me Mannon posted victories in the 
l\linois State (47-66), meetMiami (0.), faces Ohio State and 
fiOyard high hurdles (7.4) and the 
the Air Force Academy at Oakland and Wayne State in
triple jump (45 1JI.Jl.
l''rench l''ield House in Columbus, Detroit Friday and Saturday 
0. Saturday afternoon. The Irish wrestlers, now 8-2, respectively. 
Crotty, frosh down Valpo 
by Joe Passiatore was due mainly to -Notre Dame's just couldn't match the offensive 
Pete Crotty turned in one of his ability to penetrate the Crusader firepower of Crotty, Brokaw, and finest performances of the season defense for short range shots, Clay. 
to lead Notre Dame's feshmen to while Valparaiso was kept out of In the second half, when 
a convincing 92-71 win over the middle by the imposing completed a
Brokaw twistingValparaiso last night. The 6'8" defense of Crotty. 
drive down the lane to score, the center was the leading scorer for A Gary Brokaw bank shot from 
Crusader's plight became
the baby Irish with 22 points and ten feet boosted Notre Dame to desperate at 65-37. Brokaw'she hauled in 13 rebounds. an early 17-5lead at 13:49 of the hanging shot was taken offThe game developed into a rout first half. The baby Irish kept the balance, after a series of movesearly as backcourt stars Gary pressure on with a full court that were reminiscent of ElginBrokaw and Dwight Clay press that played havoc with the Baylor.
augmented Crotty's attack with Crusader offense and the lead Frank Allocco was impressive21 and 19 points respectively. was inflated to 35-18 with 6:09left in the final minutes as he con­Both were removed from the in the half. Brokaw, who scored tributed 8 points, mostly oncontest about midway through 17 in the first half, was par­outside shots.
the second half. ticularly effective in close, while The victory raised the fresh­Notre Dame was considerably Dwight Clay softened up men record to 7-4. 
more accurate in shooting than Valparaiso with some outside 
On February 8, in a
the Crusaders. The Irish had a 53 bombs. 
preliminar; to the St. John'sper cent field goal percentage as Milt McGee was the Crusader's game. the i .eprechauns will facecompared to Valparaiso's 35 per main threat as he had 19 points in Glen Oaks Junior College.
cent. The shootin~ discrepancy the game. Valparaiso, however, 
w~,-'0"-.,.,_, __ ,~----r-.-•~,~-~ • 
Gary Nov.k nips In two fll tile Z4 points he seored aplnst West Virginia last night. 
The Mountaineers shot 50 perWorthman four by half-time. 

cent from the field, and a solid 75"While our foul shooting in the per cent from the charity stripe. 

first half kept us close," Moran The Irish shooters managed asaid, "I thought that our second respectable 51 per cent from thehalf shooting was outstanding. 
field, but could only convert 54We tried to set picks for Robinson per cent of the free throws.

and he gave us a good per­The victory ended the Westformance. 
Virginia road jinx, as Sonny 

"The Notre Dame press did Moran's Mountaineers won on bother us at first," he said, "but I foreign ground for the first time think after a while our fast break this year. WV how stands at s-:6. got to them. And it loosened up The loss dropped the Irish the press." record to 3-13. 
La Salle next in Philly 
by Vic Dorr Neither LaSalle not Notre 
The basketball fortunes of the Dame is an overly tall team, and LaSalle Explorers and the both rely heavily on defense. Fighting Irish of Notre Dame They would appear to be evenly
have taken similar paths during matched in tomorrow night's
after last night's defeat at the big advantage. They are a hands of West Virginia, are 3-13, member of Philadelphia's Bigwhile the Explorers were 5-ll Five, and the game lwill be going into Saturday's game with played in the Big Five's back Canisius. yard: the Palestra. Notre Dame Philadelphia's Palestra will be made one trip to the Palestra last the next site, and LaSalle's year, and Villanova made good
Explorers will be the next op­use of the occasion. They 
ponent for "Digger" Phelps and bombed the Irish, 99-81. 
the Notre Dame basketball team. 
Tomorrow night a differentThe two teams have nearly Notre Dame team will be tryingidentical won-lost marks, but to come away from the Palestrathere are other similarities, too. 

with a win to its credit. ButBoth squads are run by young Digger Phelps' squad has woncoaches. "Digger" Phelps is in only twice on the road this year,his first year at Notre Dame, and tomorrow's contest will be

while Paul Westhead is in his ..
anything but easy.

sophomore season at LaSalle. 
Neither team has a senior in its Gary Novak, as Notre Dame's 
starting lineup, and both rely leading scorer and rebounder, 
heavily on sophomore talent. figures to the team's prime 
And both teams have had mover against LaSalle. "Goose" several "near-misses." Notre is averaging 19 points and 9.9 Dame lost to Duquesne by five rebounds a game, but he'll 
and to number-two rated receive assistance in both Marquette by nine. LaSalle lost departments. Tom o,'Mara is its first four games of the season, averaging 12.9 points for the but by a total margin of only nine Irish, and Willie Townsend is 
points. chipping in with 6.0 rebounds a Tomorrow night's game will be game. the first meeting between the two "I can't really say what wer're schools, and coaches Westhead expecting from them," said 
and Phelps will be fielding teams Novak, "Because we haven't that rely primarily on defense, gone over them yet. I know rather than on offensive punch. they're in kind of an off year, but LaSalle is currently averaging other that that I just can't say 
74.4 points a game, but the Ex­much. We've spent the last few plorers do have the potential to days going over West Virginia, put more than that on the and we won't start with LaSalle scoreboard. They are led by a until Friday." quartet of underclassmen -one 
"The Palestra? Well you have junior and four sophomores -all to give a team a certain ad­of who are scoring in double vantage whenever they'refigures. 

playing at home, I've never 6-4 forward Jim Crawford leads played in there myself, but I'm the team in both scoring and looking forward to it. I like to rebounding. He is averaging 15.1 

play in big arenas ... big places.

points and 11.3 rebounds per But they probably will be at game, and is also leading the club something of an advantaee." 
in assists, with 43. Crawford is If Gary Novak finds that hefollowed by 6-3 Jim Haggerty, does like the Palestra, the Irishwho's averaging 14.3, 6-5 Joe could be in good shape. But heDiCocco 03.7), and 6-3 Frank was right when he said thatDoyle< 12.5). Frank Moffatt (5.9) 
LaSalle will have a "certainwill round out LaSalle's starting 

advantage."

five. 
-----~---------­
Page 8 THE OBSERVER 
Freshman council schedules 6 events 
The Freshman Council has 

scheduled  six  activities,  in­ 
cluding  a  party  at  Michigan  
Dunes,  for  later this year,  ac­ 

cording to Freshman Class President David Yates. Yates, who also chairs the Council, credited a poll the class had recently taken for the decision. According to Yates, "We polled almost half the ND-SMC fresh­man class and will offer the top 
Ulster march 
(continued from page 1) 

and internment and the need for political reforms which will end the situation." 
What the civil rights leaders have specifically demanded is, first, the end of the Northern six activities they wanted." 
They planned activities also including a dance, freshman movie night, and a concert trip. 
Except for the dance, scheduled this Friday in LaFortune, dates for other ac­tivities are uncertain. Yates indicated dates for other events will probably be spaced evenly throughout the semester. 
A newsletter for the freshman class will be circulated in dorms every week, according to Yates. The first one, printed this week, asserted that its purpose is "to keep the class informed about class activities." 
Regular meetings of the Fresh­man Council, with represen­tatives from every hall, will be held. They will organize and plan all freshman activities.They will also select the week's out­standing freshman. This week's 
WANTED POETRY WANTED for thology. Include stamped velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California. 90021. STUDENTS WANTED small technical school. Curriculum ECPD credited. Major in 9 fields of drafting, 2 fields of Civil and Electronics. A.S. Degree. Industry recruits on campus. Transfers accepted February 14th through 21st. Institute of Drafting Technology, Morrison, Illinois, 61270. Three delicious chicks need ride from and back to Cincinnati area during Mardi Gras Feb. Desperate. Any information call Steve 1027. Will pay all expenses. SMC girl needs ride to Cincinnati weekend of Feb. 4. Call 4081.  
Need ride to Detroit Friday for 2 people. Call 6987. Need ride for HTH from State (along 1-80) to ND weekend of Feb. 11. Will Share$. Bob 1782.  
Desperately need a ride to Detroit this weekend. Please call Desperately need riders for young ladies from Kent Notre Dame and back on weekend of February 11, 12, and 13. Call 6987 and ask for John or Ken. Wanted: The Real Reason Jerry gets the good looking visitors. curious but yellow.  
PERSONALS MARY FRAN: If you burn my candle all the way down, I 'II give you a Christmas Day. Lover Ex-rapist now into dirty movies. Needs female lead. Call 8261.  
To concerned SMC broad Who knows what evil lurks in the Brown Helmet? Expose thyself! Order of The Brown Helmet  
Larry, Mo, and Curly Joe, Sallied forth from SMC one day, all in a gab. Sugar Babe Thanks for staying this weekend. A little sunshine in the snow. LOST AND FOUND Lost Pair gold frame glasses on Notre Dame Ave. Call 233-5673. Reward.  
Lost Dark-frame eyeglasses between stadium and Stanford. 7966. -Found: 2calculus books, Calculus and Analytical Geometry Biddle. Please claim at dora's Books.  
-LOST SET OF KEYS: ENGRAVED RING: BETWEEN C2ANDCONVO. CHRIS 234-1964. OR 3831. -Lost: Glass with dark frames in brown case. Somewhere between Nieuwland and Engineering Bldgs.  



Ireland government's policy of internment without trial. 
HPC assumes control of 
Although the measure is aimed at crushing terrorism, the minority insists that internment is anti­
co-exchange dining tickets 
Catholic and ignores protestant gunmen. 
by Don Hopfar
Beyond this, the civil rights leaders demand the withdrawal The Hall President's Council of British troops from Northern will assume complete control of Ireland because the soldiers are the distribution of Co-ex dining now seen as virtual occupying tickets, Research and force upholding a Protestant Development Commissioner Ed regime that most catholics Ellis announced last night. The abhor. move eliminates the control 
There are also civil rights formerly held by the Director of demands for a system of Co-Ex dining. proportional representation that According to Ellis the switch 
would give catholics more was made to get more students to electoral power, better housing eat at St. Mary's. and legislation that would end "When the tickets are available discrimination in jobs. only at the office, the same 
Debate tourney at C.E.C. 
An estimated forty colleges and universities are expected to participate in the 20th annual National Debate Tournament sponsored by the University at the Center for Continuing Education Friday through Sunday. Each school will enter one to three teams of varsity debaters in the competition for trophies and award certificates. 
Well known debate teams planning to attend include Dartmouth College, Nor­thwestern University, the University of Michigan, the 
.. 
University of Wisconsin, Purdue, Duquesne, and Stonehill College of Massachusetts. 
The topic for debate this year is "Resolved: That greater controls should be imposed on the gathering and utilization of in­formation about U.S. citizens by government agencies." Each school will participate in eight rounds of debate on Friday af­ternoon and Saturday. Elimination rounds for the top sixteen teams will commence at 
10:30 Sunday morning and the final round is scheduled for 4:00 pm in the CCE auditorium. 
The public is invited to attend. Anyone interested in serving as a timekeeper for any of the rounds should come to the CCE on Friday or Saturday. 
frosh salute honored Mike 
Fanning, ND heavyweight 
wrestler. 

Yates is optimistic that the activities will be a success. 86 percent of the freshmen polled said they would attend a class 
t! Games Room on Second Floor 1\ 
social activity. Yates said, "We 
want to raise funds so we can 

:~l~: Pizza Deliveries, Music By U 
continue printing the newsletter." 53 percent of the freshmen John Nichols
j1jjCall 234-3258 Il polled would be willing to help in the organization of any activity. Most freshmen learned of campus events from the Oh-· 
~~1!:=============================2=r:=~=~====I::=t!=====!===g=~=====~L~=~==~t=~===================================j
-

Sl'l'\'t'l" or word of mouth 
Yates blamed late elections and "campus red tape" for the failure to have freshman social 
CLASSIFIED A1lS events during the first semester. The freshman class officers did, however, secure over 700 names on a petition sent to Fr. Hesburgh in December concerning the ND­SMC merger, Yates said. 
people will be going to St. Mary's every night. We want everyone to get an opportunity to use the tickets, and this is why we have placed the responsibility for distribution in the hands of the hall presidents. We feel that it will be a much more efficiently operating system." This an­nouncement came in the wake of a statement released Tuesday by Gary Caruso, Director of Co-Ex 
dining, which stated that "All Co-Ex dining tickets for ND students eating at SMC will remain at the Student Union Office." Caruso's release further said that he had not discussed the decision with the hall presidents, because "the hall presidents council has no jurisdiction over his program." 
However, since the Council is now in charge of distribution, Causo's office is no longer in existence. 
Under the new plan, the council plans to distribute 50 tickets apiece to two halls on a daily basis. In the past, 100 tickets had been given to one hall daily, but it was felt that 50 was a better number because, as Ellis said, "more tickets will be used on a given evening." 
The Observer plans to print in advance those halls which will be receiving meal tickets and their respective dates. 
Cultural Arts Commission Fund Raising Film Series 
Presents 

Prillle Of Miss Jean Brodie 
Fri & Sat Feb. 4th & 5th 
8:00 & 10:00 pill Engineering Auditoriu1n 
Adm-ission $1 .00 Fund Raising Film Patrons Free 
r... 


