------~----------------­
On The Inside 
Meningitis update 
... page J 
National primary news ... page 6 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VI, No. 116 Tuesday, April 25, 197? 



AAUP -releases newsletter 
ritique of Provost office upheld 
by Ann Therese Darin Campus Editor 

Notre Dame's chapter of the American Association of University Professors distributed more information yesterday supporting charges of 31 faculty members that the Provost's Office has usurped power from democratic decision-making councils within the university. 
In its ten-page April newsletter, AAUP lists five cases ranging from no faculty consultation in the appointments of ad­ministrative officials to no faculty input on departmental policies or new academic programs as proof of the faculty allegations. 
Responsibility 
According to the AAUP Executive Committee, which publishes the monthly newsletter, Notre Dame's administration violated Section V of the Association's Statement on Governance of Colleges and Universities. Three of 14 committeemen were absent. 
Section V grants faculty primary responsibility in areas such as ap­pointments, reappointments, curriculum, and granting of tenure and dismissal. The American Council on Education and Asf:ociation of Governing Boards of Universities and Colleges adopted Section V with the rest of the statement on governance in 1966. Notre Dame has memberships in both organizations. 

Reply to 2nd faculty letter 
In 1970, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, university president, received the Alexander Mikeljohn Award, which AAUP annually awards to an educator­administrator who has advanced the causes of higher education in America. 
By its membership in both associations, the university must subscribe to this sec­tion, chapter representatives insist. These representatives, who asked to remain nameless, also believe Notre Dame has endorsed Section V by the university's recognition of AAUP. 

.Dr. Victor Eliel, Notre Dame's AAUP' 
president, and the organization he heads, 
claim their decision making power was 
usurped ... 

So far neither Frs. Hesburgh nor James T. Burtchaell, provost, have responded to allegations by 31 faculty members who drafted "The Future at Notre Dame" statement in March. This statement con­tained the original charges against the Provost's policies. 
Two weeks ago another group of 31 faculty issued a retaliation which supported the current university governing structure. 
Dr. Victor Eliel, campus AAUP president, declined comment on the April newsletter. According to informed sources, Eliel had promised top administrators that the reporf would not be released for publication until later in the week. Since The Observer copy was not received as official release, Eliel, as chairman, could not comment officially. 

Hesburgh defends Provost 
The AAUP statement replies to critics of "The Future at Notre Dame" for its lack of specific examples with five detailed cases of increased centralization of decision-making in the administration, while excluding faculty opinion. 

... by the appointment of Fr. James Burtchaell as Provost and by other examples of Administration decisions without faculty opinion. 
These five cases illustrate no faculty consultation in the appointments of ad­ministrative officials, in major policy on tenure and promotion, or departmental policies or creation of new academic programs, "·•d in creation of SUMMA­funded, P:,dowed professorships. 
For the first example of administration violation of section V, failure to consult faculty in administrative appointments, the Executive Committee lists the two most recent examples as appointments of Emil T. Hoffman as Dean of Freshman Year and the Provost. 

Tenure and promotion 
When Dr. Joseph Tihen, chairman of the Faculty Senate committee on ad­ministration, questionned Fr. Hesburgh by letter on the appointments, "Fr. Hesburgh apologized for overlooking the faculty in the appointment of the Dean of the Freshman Year, but defended the creation and filling of the Provost's office. He mentioned events which in his judgement, made it awkward to take the necessary time to consult the faculty in this matter and asserts that the. Board of Trustees has full authority in the creation and filling of such a post ... The administration and the Board of Trustees made a profound and far reaching change in the academic structure of the University without consulting the faculty," read the newsletter. 
"This method by which the position of the· Provost was created and filled has 'produced· some of the resentment still present today on our campus. It has made the Provost's job more difficult and controversial. This resentment and controversy should have · been foreseen by the administration," the newsletter added. 

Burtchaell letter 

With no faculty input on major changes in tenure and promotion, the Committee believe Fr. Burtchaell's Sept. 30 letter announcing new tenure-promotion guidelines also violates Article V. 
"The letter establishes major policy changes in these areas. In the AAUP view, these policies should be determined primarily by the faculty. The faculty as a whole has had, in fact, no role whatsoever in determining these policies: far from determ•ning them or approving them, the faculty was not even aware of them until they became official University policy," believe the Committee. 

Faculty "wisdom" ignored 
"This making of academic policy by administrative proclamation is not good for the University. It ignores the wisdom of the faculty in the area of greatest competence. Apart from that, it causes unnecessary resentment and is divisive .... The Provost's present style of unilaterally setting policy in academic and faculty areas, and then asserting he is flexible and willing to change it if he can be convinced of a better policy, is abrasive and in no way conforms to the AAUP view of proper university gover­nance," the statement continues. 
Continued on page 8 

Convention passes two-thirds majority rule 
by Tom Drape 
A two-thirds majority will be required to nominate presidential and vice-presidential candidates at this week's Mock Democratic Convention. 
The controversial Rules Committee recom­mendation escaped deletion last night by 222 to 208 vote as forces favoring a simple majority failed to pass the Minority Rules Report in the Convention's opening session. 
In other action on the Rules report, a stormy debate and considerable confusion resulted in acceptance of the proportional representation scheme drawn up to handle unfilled delegations. Candidates will receive proportions of the uncast votes representative of what they received in the filled portion of the delegation. 
The report of the Credentials Committee received overwhelm~ng approval by voice vote immediately before the debate on Rules took place. The only action of the committee, ac­cording to chairman Betsy Mohan of the Illinois delegation, was to approve a challenge to the legitimacy of the Washington delegation. Washington delegates Ken Muth made the challenge because he was not notified of thP delegation meetings. 
The Credentials Committee called a meeting of the delegation with chairman Kevin McKernan and decided to let the elections stand because the business of the elected positions had already been conducted. 
University President Theodore M. Hesburgh had opened the convention earlier by addressing tne delegates on the importance and promise of this year's convention. 


Hesburgh sighted three areas where he felt that political leadership needs to be transcended by leadership encompassed with a vision. Lack of liberty and equality, poverty in the US and poverty in the world were the problems which he noted were going to need great conern. 
He said that the criteria for the leader we elect should be that he "give a new name to peace ­justice. Justice for all citizens, justice for our poor, and justice for all poor in the world." 
Concluding his greeting, Fr. Hesburgh ex­pressed a need to search for a leader with enormous hope to guide a world. 
Continued on page 8 



f 
~ 
r 
r 
, ~ 
r 
'
~ 
r I t 
r 
r 
, 
r 
~ 
r 
' 
r 
r 
~ ~ 
,r , 'r 
~ 
2 the observer Tuesday, April 25, 1972 
Pinpoint problem areas 
Co-education Committee report due May 1 
by Chuck Griffin 

The Notre Dame Committee on Co-education will meet Wed­nesday night to disseminate subcommittee reports on what forms co-education will take at ND 
next  year.  The  committee  will  
present  it's  full  report  Monday,  
May 1.  

Sister Elena Malits, a member of the St. Mary's Religious Studies Department, is the head of the committee and she explained that they were "appointed to study area's related to ND's going co-ed. We want to pinpoint the problem areas and make recom­mendations." 
She noted that the committee has broken up into three sub-

Kersten reveals governmentchanges 
by Don Hopfer 

R. Calhoun 1\.ersten, SBP, released details yesterday con­cerning proposed revisions in the existing Student Government constitution. Changes include the abolition of the student Senate and the establishment of a nine-man Board of Commissioners to assist in legislative and executive decisions. 
The board will substitute for the President's Cabinet, and will serve as a combination of the executive and legislative branches since it will be directly responsible to the Student Body President but .will derive its members by electiOns only. . 
Kersten said that the system IS modeled after "the Board of Commissioners of Webster County, Iowa. (Fort Do<!ge, Iowa, is the 
county seat.)" "Constitutions 

BEST BANDS IN TOWN 
-Two Bands a night -Dancing 6 nights a week 
. (closed Monday.) -No cover on Tues., Wed., Thurs. -Open till 2 a.m. 
"One stop entertainment center"· 
Cocktail Lounge Bowling Bi,lliar:ds 
2802 SOUTH IIth ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
•616/683-4350 
liNCOlN-lliUIY StviAR 

...... 
BUYS
g . 
.... 
r­
leUe• Ideo• Make BeUe' Con. 


M 0 N T E G 0 
The New Personal Size Car 

With Big Car_R~de. 
see Metro our pur-chase for college 

committees; orientation, residence halls, and ad­ministration and counseling. 
The orientation subcommittee is looking into a program of orien­tation for the incoming women students, but are attempting to go beyond only recommending a specific program. 
"We are trying to develop means which will orient the present Notre Dame faculty and students to the fact that there will be women here next year. We are trying to raise the level of consciousness here." 
Also, the subcommittee is trying to establish channels so that in­dividuals and halls will have an organization to work through to develop their own orientation ide:~ I' It is in this way, Sister 
really don't make much dif­ference. The problem lies with the people involved: however, there seems to be enough interest in ending the present spoils system whereby the SBP and his ap­pointed friends have complete control over the executive branch to warrant replacing the present appointive system with a niue-man elective council," Kersten added. 
The new Board is composed of: one representative from each of six election districts, the Chairman of the Hall Presidents' Council, and the Student Body President and Vice-President. Its duties will include the creation of com­missions, the assessment and allocation of funds and the ap­pointing of Student Union Director and Treasurer. 
All members except HPC chairman will also serve as representatives to the Student Life 
The uoserver 1S published daily during the college semester except vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from ~he Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, second class postage pa1d. 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
!~lena noted, that hall orientation programs can be co-ordinated. 
The residenee halls sub.. committee is studying the physical facilities and the concerns of residence hall living as they apply to the new women. 
The subcommittee will be making basically "internal recommendations" for changes and adaptation of the facilities of Walsh and Badin Halls, the two women's dorms for next year. 
Security arrangements for the women's halls is also a topic of debate for the subcommittee. 
The final group is working on administration and counseling, particularly recommendations about personnel. 
Sister Elena said that the group 
Council. 
Concerning the fate of the SLC, the Prime Mover commented that no deeision has been rPached yet. He felt that the committee's problem was largely due to per­sonnel, and that it should be given "one more chance." 
The new constitution changes also provide for petitioning to effect govermental policies. Under the proposed change, 250 student signatures can initiate a vote to consider specific resolutions of the board, force a referendum to be taken on an issue, or cause a vote to be held on 
;u




''nello, 
jr won) t be back tn toUJn for ilte senate nzeettng today.JJ 
When you're delayed, let the folks at home know with a long distance call. Who knows ... the call could change the course of your life. It costs so little when you dial direct. For example, after 5:00p.m. a person-to-person call to Rome, Ga. costs about $2.00 ... and you can dial the same call direct for less than $1.00. 

is stuuying the idea of women functioning in administrative positions. In particular, they are probing into the position of Hall Director and what it will entail. 
"In general, the committee is very concerned with making recommendations that will help make everyone more conscious of ND going co-ed," Sister Elena explained. 
The committee is not in favor of setting up agencies for women on campus unless there is really a need for it, she noted. 
"We don't want to make the girls highly conscious of their minority status. We rlon't want to overplay the issue ... but there are big at­titudinal problems here that we're 
working on." 

the recall of any member of the Board. 
The new constitution must be approved by a popular referendum to be held this Wednesday evening at all of the dining halls and all day at the Off-Campus office for those students not on campus. 
Besides abolition of the Senate and establishment of the Board, the new consititution provides for the establishment of a Judicial Council composed of hall judicial co-ordinators and new rules to govern the passing of amend­ments. 
B P


rutus. 
The committee was appointed by the Provost shortly before break and has been meeting weekly since then. It is composed of: Dr. Robert Ackerman, assistant dean 
of students; Marika Enz, a  Notre  
Dame  law  student;  Mrs.  Leon  
Bernard;  Robert  Higgins,  Notre  

Dame Hall Life Commissioner; Barbara McKiernan, Saint Mary's student affairs commissioner; Mrs. Walter Roberts; DR. Ellen Ryan, assistant professor of psychology at Notre Dame; Brother Kiernan Ryan, assistant vice president for business affairs; John Barkett and Orlando Rodriguez, former ND Student Body President and Vice President; and Edward Ellis, a Notre Dame junior. 
FACULTY NOTICE 

The Faculty Manual Committee will continue to welcome written recommendations for the revision of the FACULT'( MANUAL until April 25th, 1972. These recom. mendations should be submitted to Prof. James Robinson. These revisions may concern either the present FACULTY MANUAL or the proposed changes to the MANU'AL found in ND Report No. 
15. 

The Committee report will be made to the Faculty Senate on Thursday, Apr. 27 at 7:30pm in the Aud. of the Center for Continuing Education. The Faculty at large is encouraged to attend this meeting. 
(Signed) The Executive Com­mittee of the Faculty Senate. 
Tuesday, April 25,_ 1972 the observer 

, 
world briefs 
<c> 1972 New York Times 
Saigon--South Vietnamese forces were reported to be falling back toward the provincial capital of Kontum in the central highlands after they had abandoned a forward command post. The post was attacked by estimated 20 North Vietnamese tanks and, according to reports in Saigon, it was overrun. 
Houston--Mter five days of explorations on and around the moon, the Apollo 16 astronauts prepared to fire their rocket to begin the trip home. During their final orbits around the moon, the crew released a small satellite that is expected to remain in orbit around the moon forabout a year collecting data. 
Philadelphia--Senators GeorgeS. McGovern, EdmundS. Muskie and Hubert H. Humphrey spend a long day campaigning prior to Tuesday's Pennsylvania Presidential Primary. Aside from the popularity poll, there were 137 delegates to the Democratic National Convention at stake in the elections. 
Washington--The Price Commission refused to give the Ford Motor Company permission to raise prices for several of its products. The Commission said that the requested 4.45 per cent increase might give the company a higher profit margin than allowed under its regulation. 
on campus today 
2: 30--convention, mock political convention, stepan center. 
7:00--convention, mock political convention, keynote address lawrence o'brien, stepan center. 
7:00 & 9:30--film, "america, america," engineering auditorium. 
8: 00--lecture, "the role of providence in history," m. fitzsimons, library auditorium. 
8:00--lecture, rev. germain marc'hadour, "thomas more and the crisis of european thought," catholic university angers, france, room 1-c, Iafortune student center. 
deadline for on campus today copy is 3:00 
50,000 sulpha pills distributed 
WE'RE MOVING JUNE 1st 
Over 50,000 Sulpha tablets have Michael Kearse, a Morrissey had direct contact with the in­
COMMUNITY NEWSTAND
already been distributed by the resident, is still the only confirmed fected student either in his hall Notre Dame Infirmary in an at­victim of the deadly disease. He section, classroom or in a social to 113 W. Monroe St. South Bend, /~d.
tempt to prevent further cases of collapsed Friday evening and is group should take the Sulpha spinal meningitis from developing, being treated at South Bend medicine. 
according to Dr. Francis Sellers, Memorial Hospital. university physician. Dr. Howard Engle, the attending 
A shipment of 30,000 tablets was physician, reported Kearse "doing exhausted yesterday when 700 well." Sellers noted that Kearse students requested the treatment. was "recovering consciousness." The Infirmary provided the Sellers said that the preventive preventive medicine to 500 treatments were necessary students over the weekend. because "a person can become a 
Dr. Sellers expects a shipment of carrier without contracting the 40,000 additional tablets this disease. But four to five days of the morning. The medicine is being preventive treatment should flown from New Jersey. eliminate the carrier state in an 
Treated students receive 40 individual." doses of the medicine which are Sellers repeated his previoustaken two at a time, four times a warning that any student who has day. 
'Last chance to free yourself~ 
A weekend camping trip is being $6 and includes meals provided a plannedfor April 28, 29,30 and is reservation is made by noon open to all ND-SMC students ac­Wednesday. 
cording to organiziers Kathie The trip is sponsored by the SMC Hughes and Jim Sherer. (7942 or camping club. 5163) 
"This is a last chance to free 

One hundred people can be yourself from the pressures of 
accomodated at Camp Eberhard school, dorms and institutional 
located on a Michigan lake 30 cooking before exams," Ms. 
minutes from ND. The charge is Hughes said. 


SIMERI'S 
Happy Hour 7 to 10 pm 64% pitcher Bud. $1.32 

-PIZZA-
Italian sandwiChes Sp-aghetti & Sea foods 
LIQUOR & COLD CARRY OUT Free use of dining room 
410 N. HILL 
HAPPY DAY CARE CENTRE 
cordially invites everyone to an OPEN HOUSE CHILDREN ART EXHIBITION on Sunday April 30th between ~-5 pm in St. Mary's Clubhouse 


There are 347 designs in the Vanity Fair 
diamond catalog. (We can save you 50°/o 
00 all Of them.) For more than 50 
years we've been in the dia­mond busi ness-importing, designing and manufacturing -selling directly to dealers. 
Our prices have always been among the lowest. And now we're offering college students the same great sav­ings. 
How much savings? On an average, about 50% less than anybody else's price. And for the skeptics among you, we give a money-back guarantee in writing. 
But why not see for yourself by visiting our showroom or sending for our free 40-page, full-color catalog. 
Our diamond showrooms. are at 55 East Washington, Chicago. Or 
send for the proof. 

Vcnr






r-----... 
fiJI --. 

1 litnib,FcdrDitunontL't 1 
I 
55 East Washington St.,Chicago, Illinois 60602 
J 

Send me the proof; the free Vanity Fair catalog. 
I Name _ ~-J I Address__ _ -~-~-~--I J City State _Zip___ _ ~ J J
School_ 

~------...----­VANITY FAIR DIAMONDS CHICAGO • NEW YORK • ANTWERP 
THE OESER \tTER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER  
John Abowd  Jim Jendryk  
News: 283-1715  Editor-in-chief  Business Manager  
EditoriaI: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471  Don Ruane Executive Editor  Bill Bauerle Advertising Manager  

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Tuesday, April 25, 1972 

Answer 



There have been four rounds now in the "dialogue" on the state of governmental affairs atNotreDame. And they have all been leveled by the faculty. 
Unquestionably the administration (especially Frs. Hesburgh and Burt­chaell) will eventually respond. The new Faculty Manual in whatever form it finally takes, must be adopted by the Academic Council and the Board of Trustees. The administrators on both these bodies will eventually vote on the matter and, implicitly, this will reveal the feelings of both these men on the University questions that have been raised. 
Summer Action 

The real tragedy will come if Fr. Hesburgh or the Trustees wait until the summer, when the campus media have shut down and the students'have left, to make a definitive move. The Office of the Provost was created during the summer of 1970 and the "parietals crackdown" wa;S formulated during the summer of 1971. Summer, it seems with its relaxed atmosphere and its absence of public scrutiny,is ideally suited to major ad­ministrative actions. 
But an administrative response to the charge that the University not suf­
. ficiently democratic cannot come during the summer. The issue is precisely that­the decision making process is unresponsive to faculty and student in­put. It is an issue that demands public response and an issue that can only be seriously aggravated by the continuing absence of administrative response. 
Now that the AAUP has made the faculty case more specific by documenting violations of the current governing structure some questions demand an immediate answer:
~ --Why were the posts of Provost and 
r 
Dean of Freshman Year filled without 
~ 

faculty consultation (violation of current Faculty· Manlllal, Article II, section 1)? Since the Provost also holds the office of Vice-President for Academic Affairs, the action clearly sidestepped the requirement that "a committee of five members (of the Academic Council) from its elected faculty representatives meet with the· President to receive and consider nominations." An identical requirement exists for the Dean of Fresh­
man year. 
--Why were the latest decisions of the Provost regarding faculty ap­pointments, tenure and promotions, faculty qualifications, leaves of absence, and the method of operation of depart­mental committees made without prior consultation of ths appropriate faculty committees? (Provisions may be found in Article IV of the current Faculty Manual, if you can find a copy.) While Fr. Burtchaell argued in September that his" actions were not in violation of the Manual the fact remains that the Academic Council is specifically charged with determining "general academic policies and regulations of the Univer­sity." --Why, in fact, any of the AAUP charges? 
The point :is, for both faculty and students, there is a general disregard for even those relatively powerless com­mittees that already exist. This system is being challenged from within and the challenge demands response. 
John Abowd 

7Hl! OBSERVER 

Night Editor: An-Sports Night Editor: thony Abowd Vic Dorr Ass't Night Editors: Night Controller: Art Esposito, george rick smith lund Typists: Helen Layout: Nic Smudski, John Catrambone Flannigan, Jill Headlines: Chris Hampe, Anne Sullivan Conway, Dianne Headliner: /VIarty Chermside, Dan 
For what it's worth mmulllmllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 

Radical fellows 
nuuuuulmuluuuuuuuuuulllllluuuuuuuunuullllnuuuuml Don Ruane 
Last year it was William Kunstler, this year Daniel Berrigan. Last year the Senior Class Fellow voting was not representative so we can excuse Kunstler, and although this year the voting was up 30 percent, there is no real significance in Berrigan's victory. In either case the election was botched by the seniors. 
What was so wrong about Kunstler and Berrigan being elected Class Fellow? What was so wrong about spray painting LaFortune, the Christ statue in front of the Administration Building, or the Nieuland Science Hall steps and doors? 
The same thing that is wrong with inciting to riot and pouring blood over draft files. Neither act makes sense, just as the predawn war artists made no sense when they romped across the campus early last Friday. 
True, Berrigan has many qualities desirable for a Senior Fellow. He has sincerely taken a stand, as well as the consequences which ac­company it. The man has endured both prison and poor health for his beliefs. 
No Good 
But what good does it do to pour blood on Selective Service files as he did in Cantonsville, Md.? From a very naive view it just inconviences the one office until new records are reproduced from copies kept in the state headquarters. Expanding the view, it just alienates those against whom the effort is directed. 
The alienated are not playing Berrigan's game. The establishment, if you will excuse a belabored term, is playing its own game, and there is no way any advocate of civil disobediance is going to pass "go" by ignoring the rules. 
Again the vote in the election was nothing to boast about, but it is an improvement. The Senior Class really doesn't care who the class fellow is, and if there wasn't voting in the halls and especially the Alumni Club (Senior Barl, then it would be doubtful whether the vote would have ·exceeded last year when the tally amounted to less than 25 percent of the class. 
It cannot be said the classes voted Kunstler and Berrigan the honor because of the low percentage of voters. Kunstler made it in because it was rather entertaining for Conservative Notre Dame to award such praise on such an idiot. 
Most Dynamic 
Berrigan made it because he was the most dynamic of the three can­didates, Ernest Bartell, probably nominated by a bunch of econ students who really liked him as a teacher, is not known for any eye catching performances and has spread himself almost as thin as Fr. Hesburgh in regard to teaching positions, sponsored work, conferences, and chairing conferences and commissions. 
Charles Evers, the first black mayor in Mississippi, was riding more on his assasinated brother's name than his particular accomplishments. However, he represents more of someone who has successfully bucked society than Berrigan. 
Evers fought his way up the political ladder, inspite of his past which included bootlegging liquor, running a string of houses in a red light district and dropping policy for the Mafia, believe it or not. In seven years he raised the number of black voters in his state from 23,000 to 307,000, making them a political force to be reconed with by white politicians. Evers uses and challenges people to help. Berrigan tries to do it himself. 
Maybe Berrigan was another cool radical that the seniors could elect to demonstrate their disappointment with Notre Dame, and to embarass duLac in the hope of changing some things. 
Whatever the case, this fellow is not representative of the class. The Senior Fellow Award is no longer important to the class. It has become outdated and should be put to rest. 
Miller Rock
letters------------------------------------------------------on tragedy editorial 
~ 
r 
r Editor: 
r During the past four years I have 
r seen much, heard much, and read much about. our involvement in a 
~ growing tragedy--Vietnam. I have 
r been able to discern three groups of people with different views on the situation. There is a minority which has strongly protested our actions in Southeast Asia. There is a smaller minority which has supported the efforts of the United States government even at the risk of being socially ostracized for doing so. Then lastly there is the large majority of us who either don't give a damn, or who don't have the ambition to express their beliefs. To each of these groups I would like to direct some few comments. 
I<'irst of all to those who support the war. I would remind you of the God-given commandment "Thou shalt not kill." God did not put any qualifications on the com­mandment. One should not kill for either just reasons or unjust ones. Wt• should not kill. ·fhe stated purpose of our ~overnment has been w g1ve me v•ewamese people the opportunity to determine their future by themselves. We have failed to do so. War has not turned out to be the way of granting them such a chance. And yet I believe that simply pulling out of the war would be just as unfair, as unjust to them as staying in it. Killing is not a valid alternative. 
Next, to those who so bitterly oppose the war. I think that your bitterness, your ad hominem attacks on our elected leaders, your ostracization of those who support the war, show that you, too. are liable to the same violence of passion as the so-called war­mongers in Washington and elsewhere. Your attacks on the war are too onesided to show sincerity against the awful tragedy that is taking place. Why not protest to the leaders in Hanoi? Ask them to also stop their killing. Tell tht>m that war is not a valid alternative. 
1:' ma11_y, w the rest of us, myself included I would demand a new action. The situation we face is not one where moral power will prevail. The strength of our hearts will only serve to give us the en­durance to face the political struggle ahead. The conflict is a political one, and in politics money l<itlks louder than anywhere else. To end this tragedy find those competent (and I stress most forcefully the word competent) candidates for public office who can make their promises to end the killing come true, and then support them with time and money. This is the only way we can change the present situation. To end the war political power is the only viable alternative. 
But to insure the peace, once it has oeen politically established we must direct ourselves to th~ search for another alternative. A way of living that is based on living. not on dying. We must learn to live for ourselves, for others, and for our world. We can only have peace in the world when peace exists in our own hearts. Live for life. live for peace. 
Yours in peace. Andrew J. Froning '72 419 E. Pokagon. S.B. 
Editor: 

The editorial in the April 17th edition of The Observer titled, "The Bombing Must Be Stopped", is irresponsible journalism. Mr. Jerry Lutkus fails to raise sub­stantive questions vis a vis the President's actions, but rather raises the level of rhetoric, doing no one a service. 
Mr. Lutkus also fails to report the facts of the situation correctly, and does omit others to fit his own personal feelings on the war. He states, "The bombing is ... to merely save face in the wake of a strong VC offensive... " The FACT is that twelve of thirteen North Vietnamese divisions have in­vaded South Vietnam. The South Vietnamese are fighting to protect their homes and country from this outside invasion. It can be noted that the North Vietnamese have never admitted to having troops in the· South. He sites "top com­manders and reporters" who he claims state that the offensive has no military effert. just political. Secretary of f.ldte William Rogers in testimon·, before the Senate Foreign Pt·fations Committee, on April ~~. 1972, stated that the bombing did have military effect, in that it reduced the North Vietnamese ability to supply their twelve divisions in the South. This is a different type of war, the Secretary pointed out to the Committee. We are engaged in a more conventional war with this invasion, as opposed to the guerrilla type war being fought heretofore. Bombing may be ef­fective. It may be argued that it will not, but Mr. Lutkus does not give the reader the chance to argue since he fails to present the facts in the case. 
Mr. Lutkus also fails to point out that 450,000 American ground troops have been withdrawn from South Vietnam, and that the number is to be reduced to just !i9,000 troops by May first. He implies that President Nixon has rscalated the war unilaterally, which is just not the case. 
In all the editorial was simply a poor attempt at inflamatory rhetoric. It does not serve the University community, and rdlrcts badly upon the entire Ohsprn•r editorial board. 
Hrspectfully yours, Hussell B. Stone '72 
l 

l 1 
Tuesday, April 25, 1972 the observer 5 
----·-­



Letters • • • 
• • • on strikers, non-strikers and Jethro Tiill 
deceptive ads Epsilon Delta, the international anti-war tactics is dominantly American, and can appear in the haze only after the premedical honor society, and a be seen by such lyrical allusions as pain of copperative study and few items of business both im­"Superman for president".) consensus action among the 
pressed me and gave me the Editor: Criticizing Jethro Tull for playing parties. This process we haveEditor: factual motivation for my letter. Many of the people orgamzmg Jethro Tull music is hardly a sound called democratic in the past andRecently, InPIRG received a I was asked to participate in a Anti-War activities would agree basis for your review. Viewing ought to be a main characteristicletter from the Center for Student 
committee whose purpose was to with you that a one-day cessation music as art and evaluating the in the evolving structure of NotreAction in St. Louis asking for 
judge the pre-med activities of business as usual is a relatively theme's lyrical value, I would have Dame. Such a process served well student help in a nationwide at­reports of such schools as the ineffective way to change Nixon-s to assume a similar repugnance to in ancient Greece and duringtempt to end some of the more University of Kentucky, Univer­barbaric bombing policy. Thick As A Brick's moral certain peiods of Rome. It cer­deceptive advertising practices 
sity of Missouri, the University of However it seems rather strange ramifications. tainly allowed the leaders of ourcurrently permitted by the Federal 
Dayton, and the University of for the ObservPr Editorial Board to Please forgive my necessarv country in its early days to riseTrade Commission regulations. 
Illinois -to name a small portion. now decide to attack our tactics. It assumption, but I seriously doubt above any level they may haveThe Center for Student Action is a 
student funded organization In looking over the reports, I seems particularly amusing in you have ever found yourself in a believed possible for themselves. I noticed that the various pre-med light of the fact that none of you situation of creating any album­believe the faculty letter and
similar to InPIRG operating in the 
groups were striving to initiate bothered to attend any of the length musical piece, let alone Faculty Senate Survey have struck city of St. Louis. InPIRG would activities which the students here meetings where those tactics were performing one. Your under­such a sympathetic chord forlike the students of Notre Dame to 
cooperate in this letter writing at ND are already allowed to take decided upon. So absent were you, trained ears point at "the in­democratic action on the Notre 
campaign. for granted. Among these were: that you obviously don't know what creased and heavyhanded use of Dame scene. CSA has asked that you write one centralized files on all medical the organizers have been planning. the organ'' and you completely This view of the future through schools; the creation of such You suggest that we begin a new over (Didn't hearl-look the fan­the smoke of these and the other
letter similar to the one printed 
medically oriented courses as petition drive in South Bend. tastic drumming of Barriemore recent events really presents abelow. The Federal Trade Com­Medical Sociology and Medical Obviously, that tactic was inef­Barlow -a relative rookie to the tremendous opportunity. Duringmission has the power to make Ethics; the ability to observe the fective in the Spring of 1970. Even group. Your reference to "un­this time of tension it is most ap­regulations concerning unfair practice of medicine away from if it was effective in a limited musical-like sounds" would cause propriate for the leaders, i.e.,
trade practices. The FTC has told 
the university setting; and the extent, wouldn't the reaction at the any Emerson. Lake , and Palmer faculty, students and ad­the Center that they take issues for 
consideration based to a large availability of films and lectures of White House be an accustomed or Frank Zappa follower to wish to ministration, to join together in the 
yawn. turn in his earphones. Just what is search for the "ideal" each seemsinterest to the pre-med rather than degree on the concern of the public chemistry or biology students. I About " mobilizing the student music, Mr. Abell? I realize I to be striving for. Notre Dame canin the of
as reflected number were present a pretty harsh criticism of
complaints they receive from can't help but think that without vote." When some of us become the place where a man or a consumers. Also, we know that the energy and the sponsorship of registering voters on campus a ~our criticisms, but I personally woman can come and do things he 
month ago, we asked for an like to hear the musical value of a never thought he could do himself.
the preprofessional office, thesemost of the complaints they 
editorial of support, at least work of art or I don't want to hear Administration as a rigidreceived relate to a specific matter aspects of our premedical education would have taken much publicity that stretched beyond the at all, about it. Jethro Tull spells authoritarian system will stuntin which the complainant felt he longer to materialize. back page. You were all too pre­optimism for music and the growth of the fledgling com­was not dealt with fairly, rather . Dining with the delegate from occupied with shots of the King musicianship; an accelerating munity. Administration as servantthan complaints requesting walking on the water. trend of superior musical aptitude in a democratic system is theOhio State, I was made aware ofproposed regulations. Therefore the plight of the student whose And now that we are attempting in rock music today. Your only catalyst which can make such an
CSA wants each of you to file a 
complaints for a regulation in preprofessional advisor took on to turn out workers for George other musical reference Yes environment possible. advertising. All you have to do is that responsibility as a sidelight. McGovern, we find it somewhat attests to and epitomize~ thi~ Jesus Christ affected the world, 
The delegate also highlighted the difficult to get coverage of our optimism. perhaps for all time, and he did itrewrite in your own words the 
following sample letter and send it persistent confusion resulting from projects and meetings. The Ob­Placing faith in the audience of using a message of love. A 
the lack of an office solely for server didn't bother to print the this letter, I reiterate my en­developed tool of this message isto: Federal Trade Commission, premeds. fact that George McGovern won thusiastic attitude is not a case to service to others especially byWashington, D.C. Do it now while I noticed another interesting the Idaho and North Dakota "judge you all and make damn those in authority. This serviceyou are thinking about it. Send a fact: of the fifteen delegates that I primaries on Tuesday. Instead we sure that no-one judges me." It appears to be most constructive incopy of this article to one of your would suffice for all to hear the
friends at another school. was able to meet, ten were seniors. were treated with boring, day old an open and truly democratic 
prose on George Wallace. group tomorrow night and listen to
Of these, five had not as yet been If that structure in which each human can 
accepted by a medical school. If isn't futility, then what is ? Anderson's plea, 'So come all ye feel his opinion counts in the final The fact remains that some of us young men who are building balance.
these students -recognized as
Dear Federal Trade ·Com­
at·e attempting to mobilize the castles! Kindly state the time of
mission: being among the best their schools I commend the Faculty Senate 
had to offer -had such a proportion student vote. That people have the year and join your voices in a for taking the survey on the faculty There are two types of ad­attempted to -contact Father hellish chorus. Mark the precise letter as a continuation of thevertising that the Commission not yet in medical schools, our 
Hesburgh about making a nature of your fear." democratic response and I en­
should eliminate because they are figures at Notre Dame would certainly seem enviable. statement against the War. (he No, I also "really don't mind . courage them to further action.
anti-consumer and anti­has been out of town.) if you sit this one out."
Dr. Lester C. Shell, actingcompetitive. 
Unfortunately, we realize the Neil H. Schilmoellerpreprofessional advisor at Milliken
1. When a company is allowed to 
lack of committment against the The Blaze Associate Professor 
use superlatives such as 'best', University, told the assembled 
War of many who have been freed Department of Aeorspace and
'most' and so forth they should delegates on Thursday evening that he was that Fr. from the draft. That is why we Mechanical Engineering
have the substantiation to back it sorry Joe Faculty Senate
have planned activities that make 

up. It seems that the Com­Walter was not there to speak on 
it easy for students to show varied 

mission's view of the use of the "excellent and unique" ad­Editor: 
degrees of fervor :from listening

superlatives in advertising has visory system at Notre Dame The Faculty Senate should be been that superlatives are har­<Father was kept busy in his office to Speakers, to picketing commended for seeking faculty more red paint
Gover~ment buildings downtown,

mless puffery when in fact they until 4 pm Friday afternoon). I felt input on the question of the faculty 
to gettmg out the vote for George

contribute to the consumer's very proud and very lucky to have letter in the Observer of March 15 
McGovern in Michigan's primary. 

confusion as to what is a believable become a product of the Notre on "The Future of Notre Dame". Editor:
A strike merely at Notre Dame

claim and make it harder for Dame system. The special postcard survey is an I would like to commend the
would be ineffective,! l if the strike 

All of these things struck me at attempt to factor into the Notre
honest businessmen to make valid actions of the anti-war supporters
was the end in itself, and 2) if there

claims that consumers will be able Indianapolis, and I submit them Dame structure the opinions and on Thursday and Friday. They had to believe. for your consideration. were no other national efforts. But feelings of all of its faculty. a number of very good ideas.
we feel that is not the case. The

2. The second type is where an This show of the development of First of all, the masterful stroke 
National Student Association has

Sincerely a democratic system is timely in
advertiser makes comparisons involving the painting of the "war
called for this one day strike all

such as 'more powerful' without Stephen F. Mitros that it may help to revive some of rel~ted" objects around campus.
over the country. Already ac­

stating the object that is being President, Indiana Gamma the dampened moral of the faculty. ObJects such as the Nieuwland
tivities have begun on other

compared, or how significant the Alpha Epsilon Delta Recent events including the Science Hall <where, as we all
campuses. Maybe you could have

comparison actually is. letter on promotion and tenure in know, they are under a Defense
printed that story from the New

Puffing is not harmless, for it "Report 2" and the recent faculty Dept. contract to develop new
York Times instead of today's a 
creates differentiation in the red paint letter have clouded the relation­and more efficient death ray) the
article on the U.S. Olympic team.

consumer's mind that many times ship between the faculty and the Administration Building steps
In conclusion, I can only ask you I to con­
does not exist in fact and therefore administration. want <which serve to transport R.O.T.c: 
Editor: to keep your negativism to your­on two
it lessens competitive advertising centrate these events to war-mongers into the Dome where 
selves, unless you are willing to

the consumers believe To all of you enlightened people make the point that Notre Dame is 
can as they try to coerce N.D. into con­
participate in our admitedly

truthful and make purchase who, without any regard to per­at a crossroads. It can go toward a verting into a military school) and s~nal cost, repainted the library, meager attempts to stop the greater democratic participation
decisions on that reliance. the statue of Christ (whose
N1euwland Science Hall, LaFor­bombjng. If that is impossible, the 
by its faculty or toward further military activities needn't be tune and the statue of Christ in least you can do is go back to
Sincerely, retrenchment by the ad­mentioned) are all appropriate
campus politics where you are a

InPIRG front of the Dome I would like to ministration. I suggest the choice symbols of the military-industrial
say thanks--for nothing. I am sure bit more secure. must be toward a greater 
complex and should be desecrated. 
that u,:., infantile action on your democratic participation by all of the on the
Secondly, teach-in
ND preprofessionals Peace,
part will bring about a quick the elements which make up the Quad, where all students learned
Don Mooney

settlement of the war. I must Notre Dame family. This choice the correct method of conductingEditor: confess, however, that you did can allow the great potential of an air raid drill. This information
I suppose that at this stage of the achieve one of your original Jethro Tu/1 democratic participation to be will be invaluable when, after the
game it is usually best to let a 
purposes. You have made me used to reach new heights of 
abolition of the Armed Forces
dying issue expire, rather than to reevaluate my position on the war Editor: scholarly effort. 
such occurances will be com~
prolong its life needlessly. But I and the peace movement--! now As an avid rock fan and a very Father Burtchaell's handling of monplace, courtesy of those
would like to offer concerned feel that you are just as insane as avid Jethro Tull fan I was quite the question of tenure and "unenlightened" countries that
students a few insights which were 
those people whom you oppose. To concerned upon reading Mr.Abell's promotion in his letter in "Report maintaining an
made obvious to me only recently, still are obsolete
all those involved in responsible disappointment in reviewing 2" was a partial retreat from such and useless standing army.and which the readers may find as protest I say congratulations. It is Thick As A Brick. It appears Ian a developing democratic system Thirdly, the brilliant idea of
interesting as I did. really a shame that these has inadvertently drawn out but I judge quite a normal one using destruction to condemn
Although the drawn-out con­
hoodlums have become associated another brick, or what Jerzy given the past history of the ad­
violent and destructive actions.
troversy over the preprofessional with you. In the future I hope that Kosinski labeled "the other 58 ministrative structure and This is in full accord with the time­programs at Notre Dame has 
the Admissions Board scrutinizes percent" in his talk last night. The operation of Notre Dame. 
honored idea that "Two Wrongs
bothered me for some time, I've each applicant a little more trouble with Anderson is that he is However. his openness and Make a Right".
held back my opinions because I 
carefully. for I don't understand too egotistical to provide it is black willingness to take a position are to In conclusion, I would just like to
felt that they had a predominantly how people like this even made it So I will attempt to inand white. be commended and. I suggest that say thanks to those who haveemotional basis. Emotional through high school. 
his behalf. the tension created by his managed to open our eyes to thearguments tend to bury them­It appears that America and statements can be a positive step Vietnam war. which has beenselves in their own' rhetoric and 
Peace <That's a joke! l Americans today, are in the ex­toward democratic action if it is 
virtually unheard of up until now.
render themselves ineffective. But 
tremely bad habit of looking at accepted and responded to by the 
this past weekend I attended the Frank Kuserk 
everything from their own per­faculty and others. 
Mike Robinson
National Convention of Alpha 338 Morrissey spective. (Jethro Tull's audience The flag of studied reason can St. Ed's 

Pollution suits rE~ieE:·ed to 
lower courts 
~~--------­
Tuesday, April 25, 1972
the observer
6 

several federal district court:s, Illinois to go into a U.S. District by Lyle Denniston however. The court noted that a Court with its complaints that four < c >I !172 Washington Star 
series of federal cases raising the Wisconsin cities are dumping Washington, April 2-t--The same questions may be put sewage into Lake Michigan. 
Supreme Court ruled unanimously together for trial in one distriet In a one-paragraph order, the today that air pollution lawsuits court. Court did agree to hear a suit that should be tried in lower federal Moreover. Douglas said, there is the state of Vermont wanted to file courts, not in the highest court. already one pollution case again:st against New York and a private 
As a result, 18 states that want to the auto industry now pending in a paper company for creating a huge sue the auto industry for pollution federal district court in Los bed of factory. waste in Lake from car exhaust must take their Angeles. 
Champlain. 

complaint to a U.S. District Court. The legal dispute over auto The auto exhaust case turned The ruling will slow down ~"n­exhausts went into the courts after aside today had been aimed at siderably legal challenge to air the Justice Department agreed in General Motors Corp., Ford pollution. 1969 to settle a federal antitrust Motor Co., Chrysler Corporation The 18 states, and other states case against the industry. American Motors, and the involved in different pollution The Department had charged Automobile manufacturers 
controversies, had hoped to per­the companies and the association Association. 
suade the Supreme Court to let with conspiring to wipe out com­The 18 states complained hhat them bypass lower courts all petition in the development of the industry delayed the together. pollution-control devices, and the development of pollution controls 
They wanted to bring their case delivery of any such devices. for auto exhausts through an directly before the highest A negotiated settlement kept the illegal conspiracy. tribunal, getting a faster result and government case from going to They wanted the Justices to 
one whi,·h would apply at once trial. As a result, some 17 lawsuits order the industry to install across the nation. were filed in the Federal Court in pollution controls on all new cars Rut in the unanimous opinion Los Angeles, and the 18 states and on all used cars beginning with written by Justice William 0. began developing their attempt to 1953 models if they are still in use. Douglas, the justices said that air put the issue directly before the The other pollution case which pollution might differ so greatly Supreme Court. the court directed toward lower in various parts of the country that The Court took two other actions ft>deral courts involved Illinois's "practical necessity" requires today on attempts by states to sue challenge to the cities of Milwaukee. South Milwaukee,
that it be dealt with "in the context directly in the Supreme Court to of localized situations." stop pollution. By a unanimous Kenosha and Racine. The lawsuits need not be tried in vote, the Court told the State of Illinois said its own efforts to 

Pennsylvania priin~ary today 
small but always enthusiastk hitting election eve speech on his
by Donald Janson 

crowds at airports and on down­campaign themes that the Nixon 
<c> 1!172 New York Times 

town streets was that the South administration favors big business Philadelphia. April 24--The three Dakota senator "will get us out of and the wealthy, whle a Muskie major candidates in Penn­Vietnam ... he's done so much fo:r administration would end the sylvania's democratic presidential the country ... He cares so much, as costly Vietnam war end 
primary campaigned down to the mv father did." widespread unemployment, freeze wire today in an exhausting The 19-year-old junior at Rad­food prices and reform tax election-eve performance. cliffe College said at one point programs to benefit poor and Tomorrow. Pennsylvania when asked if her views were those middle-income citizens. democrats will go to the polls from of the Kennedy Family: "I haven't Humphrey plunged into the final 7 a.m. to 8 p.m. to elect 137 taken a poll, but I think everyone is day of an all out effort to win the delegates to the part's National for Senator McGovern-­first state primary of his life by Nominating Convention in July. personally." shaking hands at the main gate of a Campaigning hard today for the Pittsburgh steel plant at 7 a.m. prestige and psychological boost of In West Chester, McGovern after four hours of sleep. 
winning the popularity poll and for forecast a "surprise" in the The 60-year-old former Vice the practical value of winning number of Pennsylvania delegates President. eves red-rimmed and delegates were Senators Hubert H. he would win. Early predictions face pale,· then jumped by Humphrey, EdmundS. Muskie and have been that he would get about helicopter to the southwestern (ieorge S. McGovern. 15. primarily in liberal Pennsylvania blue-collar towns of McGovern, who has con­Philadelphia suburbs and in liberal New Castle, Butler Kittanning, 
centrayted on tomorrow's sections of Pittsburgh. Gov. Milton (ireensburg. Uniontown and Massachusetts primary and its 102 .J. Shapp, who has endorsed Washington . delegates, criss-crossed Penn­Muskie. has told friends precently Chilly, raw weather, at times 
sylvania by plane today, hitting that MeGovernwill get at least 25. ' worsened by rain or hail kept eight cities in a bid to win enough Muskie, striving to keep the enthusiasm muted and crowds 
Pennsylvania delegates to give delegate lead he has built in fairly small in downtown streets him the top combined total for the previous primaries and state and parking lots. day in the two states. conventions, has concentrated on Humphrey, who is counting He was accompanied by delegate elections in the state's 50 heavily on labor-oriented Pitt­sburgh and southwestern Penn­
Kathleen Kennedy, oldest senatorial districts. 
sylvania, was applauded as he
daughter of the late Sen. Robert F. Tonight he bought television Kennedy. time on nine stations covering all denounced the Nixon wage-price Her comment to sometimes parts of Pennsylvania for a hard-
program at each stop as a failure. 
SLC elections 
May 2: petitions 

due April 28 
SLC elections will be held Tuesday. May 2, according to Dennis "H-Man" Etienne. 
One representative will be elected from each of the following six districts: District I--AII un­dergraduate students residing off­campus; District 2--Farley, Breen-Phillips, Cavanaugh, St. Joseph, and Moreau; District 3-­All undergraduate students residing in Grace and Flanner: District 4--AII undergraduate students residing in Stanford, Keenan. Zahm, and St. Edward's; District 5--Ail understuate students residing in Sorin, Walsh, Alumni, Badin and Dillon: District 6--All 
undergraduate students residing in Fisher, Pangborn, Lyons, Morrissey, Holy Cross, and Howard. 
Petitions for candidacy can be picked up in the student govern­ment office and are due by 5:00 p.m., Friday, April 28. Balloting will be in the halls duringlunchan d dinner hours while off-campus students will vote in the Off­Campus office. 

Meal tickets 
Halls 
Alumni.. Zahn Badin.-Walsh Stanford-·BP Sorin--Cavanough St. Ed's..Grace 
Pangborn~.farle)l 
Morrissey--F is her Flanner..Grace 
Ar>ril 25 26 27 28 29 30 
l\la:v 1 ? 

------------------------·------------------------­
Applications i~or Mardi Gras Charity Chest Funds submitted to : 
Charity Chest Funds Student Govt Office Box 639 Notre Dame, lndiano 
Deadline: May 1, 1972 Information : 7668 
protect Lake Michigan would be October. futile if the cities continued to The Justices' action came before empty low or ill-treated sewage the Court began a three-week into the lake. 
recess. The case the Justices agreed to The justices threw out a major
decide involves the dumping of test case in which they had in­industrial wastes from an In­dic::lted they might reconsider the ternational Paper Company widely known 1966 Miranda rulingl<'actory in Ticonderoga, N.Y. . barring the use of criminal con­Vermont argued that the paper fessions if the suspect had not been company for 45 years had emptied advised by the police of his right to paper wastes into Ticonderoga remain silent and have a lawyer.creek, and these were carried into On March 20, the ourt agreed to Lake Champlain and deposited hear an appeal by Philadelphiainto a "slug bed" of about 300 prosecutors to a Pennsylvania acres. Supreme Court ruling dealing with International Paper said it has the scope of the Miranda Decision. closed the mill and is no longer The Supreme Court, concluding dumping wastes into the creek. that the Pennsylvania decision did The Supreme Court will hear have a state law basis, announced arguments on the case st3rting in that it would not review the ruling. 
Wallace blasts McGovern in Massachusetts primary 
react to suggestions that he and 
by Bill Kovach 

McGovern were attracting similar <c> 1!172 New York Times 
voters. "Hell," the Governor told oneBoston. April 24--Alabama Gov. 
reporter. borrowing a line fromGeorge C. Wallace made a last­other democrats who have opposed minute appearance here at a McGovern, "He's the easiesthastily arranged rally and news democrat for Nixon to beat inconference during which he November."
singled out Sen. George S. 
Wallace's appearance here wasMcGovern for criticism. 
the only personal campaigning inTwice during his hour-long 
Massachusetts that challengedappearance Wallace accuused 
McGovern, whose support hereMcGovern of "stealing my appears to be swelling daily. 
thunder" in casting himself as "an Sen. Edmund S. Muskie ofanti-establishment candidate." 
Maine, who has the only
"Senator McGovern has been in Congress 14 years," Wallace said, 
organization competing with "but he's managed--by picking up 
McGovern statewide, canceled a planned trip here yesterday and
what I said in Florida and saying it in Wisconsin first --to establish 
has left the field to the McGovern himself as an ali-establishment 
forces who are hoping to capture candidate, but he is part of the 
over 50 percent of the popular vote establishment. He voted for the 
tQmorrow to record a major vic­establishment's Tonkin Gulf tory ~ver Muskie. Hesolution; he voted for the 
McGovern's campaign swing
establishment's Welfare 
last night and this morning was 
programs: he voted for the 
accompanied by Kathleen Ken­establishments' busing bills; he nedy, oldest daughter of the late 
voted for the establishment's 
Sen. Robert F. Kennedy, and led to foreign aid giveaways." 
speculation that a strong showingAlthough the Alabama Governor in the primary here might lead to has consistently criticized those of further support from the Kennedyhis opponents from the congress in 
family.

this vein, this focus on McGovern apparently reflects growing Sen. Edward M. Kennedy has concern that the South Dakota remained scrupulously neutral Senator is making inroads into the 
during the primary here but the protest vote that has kept the 
presence of any member of the Wallace campaign alive since 1968. 
Kennedy family in a campaign organization in MassachusettsReporters traveling with the electrifies the rumor mills.
Governor today said he began to 


Wubl/ 
Sapp~ire 

18k.}ewefrl/ 
cal/ us .•• 
:l:Jiamom/ !Import Compang 
THE ULTIMATE IN DIAMONDS 
Seen by Appointment Suite 602 St. Joseph Bank Building South Bend, Indiana Phone 287-1427 
Tuesday, April 25, 1972 the observer 
Netters rack up three more wins 
by Eric Kinkopf Brickley to his Notre Dame to rest with a 10-8 win over Hayne­The Notre Dame Tennis team counterpart Brandon Walsh. Shirkey.
upped its spring mark to S-3 in Otherwise it was the Irish in a The BGSU challenge started offextended weekend action this breeze as Buster Brown started the on a sour note for the Irish as Tomweekend as the resident ND romp with a 10-2 win over Sam Lightvoet dropped Buster Brownraqueteers whitewashed Ball State Peden. John Allare followed with a 10-9, but from that point on it wasand clipped Bowling Green indoors 
all ND. on Saturday and dropped the and Mike Reilly captured the John Allare defeated Bill Oud­
10-5 decision over Paul Thomas 
Wildcats Purple Haze of Nor­number three singles with a 10-6 sema 10-5, Brandon Walsh whipped thwestern in Evanston yesterday 
win over Tom Warfel. Dan Ryan 10-4, Rob Schefter afternoon. Walsh continued the streak with dropped Tim Hoover 10-5, John
Moved to the indoor courts 
Carrico decisioned Brad Malcom

his close decision and John Carrico because of inclement weather, the moved up from the number six 10-4 and Chris Kane made hisSaturday afternoon action proved spot to the number five position singles initiation doubly sweet with to be no more than an extended and dropped Reed Hayne 10-6. a 10-1 win over Tim Howell.
workout for the netters as Tiger Chris Kane, making his first Brown-Allare kept it going with aTom Fallon's kids shut-out the Ball singles start, wrapped up the 10-6 win over Lightvoet-Oudsema,Staters 9-zip and waltzed by the singles action with a 10-1 victory and Reilly-Carrico followed with a 
BGSU Falcons S-1. over Bill Sharkey. 10-S win over Ryan-Malcom.
With the ten-point pro scoring 
Walsh and Schefter wrapped up
Brown-Allare kept the sweepsystem being used becuase of a 
Saturday action with a -10-3

alive with a 10-5 win over Thomas­shortage of of time, the closest the Warfet in doubles action, followed decision over Howell-Dredge.
Ball Staters came to winning a by Reilly-Carrico's decision over Yesterday the Irish dropped game point was a 10-9 loss by 
Peden-Brickley. Northwestern 6-3 with a sweep of 
number four singles player Bob Walsh and Kane put the Staters the doubles action, after splitting with the Wildcats-Purple Haze in the singles matches. 
Brown started the match off with




Irish upset Mich. St. 
a 6-3 6-3 win over Bob Reisser before the Wildcats rebounded at
by Andy Scantlebury 
scored two quick goals and then the two and three singles positions. 
A strong Michigan State dominated the play for the rest of Doug Conant dropped John Lacrosse team came to du Lac on the game. Hoban scored his Allare 3-6, 6-2, 7-5 and John Saturday to face the Irish in their second at 1:45 and less than a Vegosen defeated Mike Reilly 6­Irish from having their backs
annual battle, and they had every 3,6-3. only the minimum two sets.
minute later Tarnow added his ineed to the wall with a 6-2, 6-2
right to be confident. Led by Brandon Walsh earned the Irish Brown and Allare defeated
second. State could not set up sweep over Will Clayton.
midfielders Val Washington and another game point with a 2-6, 6-4
offensively and when they Reissen-Casati 6-4, 7-6, Reilly­
Don Grey , the Spartans were 6-o decision over Ken Cohen, but The lrish superiority shone Carrico trimmed Conant-Cohen 6­
managed to, Roller and his
averaging over ten goals a game. Steve Casati returned the favor by through though in the doubles as 4, 7-6, and Walsh Kane iced the
teammates did the job defensively. 
dropped Rob Schefter 7-5, 1-6, 6-4. the Irish swept the Pairs com­
In Notre Dame, they were facing victory with a 6-4, 6-3 decision over
peitition with each match going
a team that had lost to Ohio St. the Notre Dame continued its Freshman John Carrico kept the Vegosen-Clayton.week before, and had played domination in the fourth quarter as sloppily in an overtime win over they exploded for three more 
The Family triumphs in bookstore b-ball 
Michigan. The Irish were also goals. Hoban got his hat trick at weakened by the loss of junior Jim changing baskets. At that point, Dwight Clay ripped off fourLepley, and there could be not 2:55, Bill Dacey tallied at the ten by "Lefty" Ruschmann Family center John Shumate
minute mark, and Bingle closed straight bombs and set up a coupledoubt that Michigan State was the began to dominate play and
favorite. the Irish scoring with his second more points with steals, giving The 
The Family, led by Dwight Clay 

sparked a soggy fast break which
Unfortunately for State, goal. Satran scored for State at and Gary Brokaw, shot its way to quickly put his club back in Family a 9-4 lead. Later in the 
everyone knew this except the 3: 35 on a deflection of 2. Washington the first annual Bookstore command. game, Gary Brokaw took to the 
Irish stickmen. Rich O'Leary's shot, and several mmutes later corners and decided the issue with 
Hysteria! title, defeating Hawks

"dropped the gloves" with Notre In the other semifinal, Hawks his outside shots, erasing a late
boys put together a great team and GGeese, 21-12, before some 500 Hawks and Geese threat.
effort,stopping the Spartans 9-4 for Dame's Dave Jurusik. The of­fans at the "Rick" after tour­and Geese dissected Black Magic, their seventh victory of the season. ficials quickly broke up the fight nament officials moved the game playing without the Towsend Rock b-ball star George Nelson The win was highlighted by a three but not before Jurusik landed from the Bookstore courts. brothers and Greg Hill, under the won the tourney's "Mr. goal fourth quarter, several fights, several punches. Commissioner Vince Meconi boards, took a big lead, and hung Bookstore" award and a place on and the return of defenseman Fred cited the high number of casual on for a 21-12 triumph. the All-Bookstore team. Others
It was a big win for Notre Dame 
Morrison who played well in the water and intentional drowning named include Sonny Frazier,
as they continue to challenge for Hawks and Geese, playing with
"man down" situations. calls in the Family's 21-1S semi­Leon Hart, Jr., Bob Ritter, and
the Midwest Lacrosse title. This only five minutes' rest, then held
final victory over the Anvil Chorus. Tom DiPiero. A special award
Freshman Steve Tarnow gave Saturday the Irish face Columbus its own in the early going against went to Jeff Cowin of The Anvilthe Irish an early first quarter lead in another home encounter, and a The Chorus, aided by a strong The Family in the finale. After
and moments later attackman B.J. victory could all but clinch the title Chorus for distinguished work with 
wind advantage, scratched and bit Chris Stevens tied the game at 2-all
Bingle scored on a great inside for the stickmen. the hatchet. 

drive for a two goal advantage. Late in the period, the Irish were plagued by penalties and despite several fine stops by goalie Jim Roller, State's Jim Walters con­nected at the 11 :30 mark on a "man up" goal 
The evenly matched action continued in the second quarter with the teams exchanging a pair of goals. Notre Dame's Ed Hoban and Rich Mullin tallied early, but the Spartan's Paul Satran and Val Washington scored late in the period and the Irish held a slim 4-3 lead at half time. Though they only led by one, the Irish had done a 
great job containing the quick Spartan middies and this was the key to the game. bob Cullen, playing in place of Lepley, was 
particularly effective in stopping State's Don Grey, and Irish middie Paul Reagan was outstanding the entire afternoon. 
In the third quarter the Irish 
J. V. netters win 
The "B" team of the varsity tennis program at Notre Dame won its first match of the season Saturday by downing Maryhurst College of Erie, Pa. The junior Irish defeated the Lakers of Maryhurst S-1, winning five of six in singles competition and all three doubles matches. 
Fred Keuthen (6-Q,6-Ql, Dick Murray (6-2, 6-0), and Greg Reid (6-0, 6-2) paced the team in the singles matches, while the Murray-Reid combo (6-o, 6-Q) led the Irish in their sweep of the dQubles. 
The next two dates on the junior netters' schedule are home ap­pearances. The team takes on Goshen College today at 3:00pm at the Courney Tennis Center, and meets Kalamazoo on Wednesday, again at 3:00pm. 
its way to a 10-3 lead before and 3-all with his outside shooting, 






OBSERVER 
SPORTS 

Notre Dame, sporting a 7-9 slate, now travels to Michigan
New faces on the sideline State today for a double-header 
Irish, Badgers split 
Notre Dame's rugby team was shutout s-o by the University of Wisconsin over the weekend, while their B team understudies turned the tables on the Badgers, collecting an s-o victory. 
The wet and muddy field at Madison proved to J:>eaaetriment to the Irish A club. Amid the equalizing conditions the Irish were unable to utilize their speedy assets. 
The Badgers, who boast an impressive kicking game, did all their scoring in the first half, tallying two tries. The Badgers, however. failed on both of their conversion attempts. 
The Irish were able to suppress the Badger attack in the second half, but didn't do any scoring of their own. 
In the B game, Dave Simpson and Kevin O'Grady each scored a try on behalf of the Irish effort while Notre Dame's defense held Wisconsin scoreless. 
Next weekend the Irish ruggers will travel to Lexington, Virginia to compete in the National College Tournament. 
...


Rain halts ND's nine 
three runs and four hits to jump on 
top.
second. Rob Reschan led off with 
scheduled day game with the 
Detroit Titans. 
After lefty Larry Niedowicz 
hit sent LaRocca home to narrow
retired the Irish in the first, Detroit 
nicked started Ed Hrabcsak for 
that the _game was called. 

Tuesday, April 25, 1972
8 
the observer 


_Buffalo 
by Cliff Wintrode 

Ruffalo. N.Y. -The Buffalo jury today heard witnesses and defendants emotionally plead that every person on the courtroom must take action to stop the "crime" of the Indo-China war. 
"You know that we are not criminals," said Chuck Darst, addressing the judge and jury. "All of this is irrelevant to the death of people in Indochina. And we must do something to stop it." 
Darst said, speaking directly to Federal Judge John Curtin: "You too are called to act in some way, that you don't hide behind your robes. I move that you do something.'' 
These remarks came after the government had-rested its case, and Curtin had asked for motions or statements from the defense. Darst and Ann Masters spoke in addition to Vincent Doyle, their co­counsel. 

defenda:nts plea 
Prosecutor James Grable was replying to Doyle's motions when John Martin stood and said: 
"The court -is-supposed to be a a court ot JUStice, a place where we can cope with the problems facing us . . . Unless we can make the court a place for that, I don't un­derstand what you are doing here, Mr. Curtin." 
Curtin replied that the law does not allow every litigant to achieve satisfaction in court. 
Martin answered that "calling what we did a crime is to take attention away from the real crime ... Everybody's hands in this courtroom are tied." 
Two spectators during the ex­change were asked by Curtin to leave or sit down and be quiet after each had said that now was the time for the court to talk about the crime of war. Thev left. 
On trial here on charges of conspiracy, theft of army in­telligence records, and intent to commit burgulary are: Maureen Considine, Chuck Darst, Jeremiah Horrigan, Jim Martin and· Ann Masters. They were arrested inside the old Buffalo Federal Building last August 21. 
Tran Khanh Tuyet, a South Vietnamese citizen, said that if the United Staes wants to "win" badly enough in Vietnam, then America runs the likely chance of com­mitting genocide. She was the first defense witness. 
However, she felt that it was unlikely Russia or China would allow this to happen. 
Tuyet said she was born in the South Vietnamese near the Cambodian border. She has been in the United States since October of 1968. She said she has devoted a large part of lher time working at the Indo .. China Resource Center in Washington D.C. 

First znock convention session 
Continued from page 1 
The Rules debate was by far the most lively of the night, and in­dicated what most observers feel will be the tenor of the convention. Rules Committee chairman Blake Wordel presented the report, and 
_by voice vote,the convention refused to debate each of the 22 points separately. Wordel then presented the Minoirty Report, which called for the simple majority, and moved its ac­ceptance. 
Don Mooney, Ohio delegation chairman and McGovern sup­porter, spoke for the simple majority, saying that the con­vention could go on till the "middle of next week" if the two-thirds rules was approved. 
He also claimed that the Wallace organization was backing the two­thirds rule, and that the candidate nominated should not have to compromise to get two-thirds of the convention behind him. 
Wallace chairman Art Quinn of Tennessee argued that the educational value of the con­vention would be enhanced if a deadlock were to develop, a likely result of the two-thirds rule. He also commented that not only Wallace, but Kennedy, Jackson, Chisholm, and Humphrey also favored the two-thirds-rule. 
Florida chairman Ed Ellis also opposed the simple majority, saying that the party was divided in 1972like never before and that a signifkant following was needed if the party wanted to win in November. 
In a tense roll-call vote, the Minority Report was defeated by 14 votes, with three abstentions. 
Tuesday's sessions will deal with theparty platform, which is ex­pected to spark heated debate. Wednesday is the date for the nomination and voting on Presidential candidates. 

AAUP criticizes Prc)vost post 
Continued from paRe 1 
.-Regardmg no consultation on tenure and promotion, AAUP states in the newsletter, "there is a feeling among the faculty of the University that the administration is overruling departmental ap­pointments and promotions committees' recommendations with increasing frequency and largely without ex­
planation ... There is very little
.. 
open discussion of this area, and the administration does not feel obligated to provide reasons for overruling departmental com­mittees. This negation of long hours of committee work is demoralizing." 
The AAUP group also berated the administration for its handling of Black Studies faculty and substitution of a Dean of Theological Studies which was held by Rev. Charles Sheedy from 1968 to 1971. This group complained that there was no faculty in­volvement in Fr. Hesburgh's decision last spring to hire a certain number of black studies faculty or any discussion of its feasibility or impact on the various colleges. 
The statement also cited the Program in Non-violence, created in 1969, as another decidion made without faculty involvement. 
Creation of Advanced Religious Studies Institute was criticized for the same reasons. 
. . ,

The faculty representatives who The Executive Committee s drafted the statement also agree membership includes Drs. Pa~l that faculty should have some Ratnburn, John Lyon, Denms input into the use of funds devoted Dugan, Gerald Jones, Trubach, to faculty development. "It is not Raymond Brach, Charles Mur­clear that the faculty would regard doch, Vincent De Santis, Sullivan, devoting the entire twenty million Timothy 0 'Meara, G~o.rge dollars to endowed professorships Brinkley, Edward Wasta, W1lham as the wisest use of these funds, " Liu, and Eliel. they wrote. 
....--=----------------------------1 
Make it wi'th Ma Vino 
Anyone interested in the positions of Mardi C7ras Chairman or Raffle Ticket Chairman, 
please contact 
Joe Prochaska 
.1n the Social Commission office or call 7757. 


PLACEMENT BU RE:AU 
Main Building  MEAD JOHNSON &CC)MPANY  
Friday April 28  
For:  MBA.  Will  interview  students  with  Marketing  or  Related  

Backgrounds, Humanities (Social Science, E1~onomics, Sociology, 
Psychology, Etc.) Will Be on 6 to 9 month rotational assignment, before being selected for permanent placement within company. Personnel, management, marketing, etc. 
Other MBA students amy sign up Wednesday afternoon if spaces are 
available. Interested Candidates should sign immediately in Room 207 Main Building. ' 



trial 'irrelevant' 
The Center, according to Tuyet, disseminates information on Vietnam to peace groups and in­terested Congressmen. 
US bombing policy and defoiliant policy said Tuyet, is essentially based on the argument that by destroying the fields and villages in suspected enemy areas, the enemyis deniea those areas as hiding p[aces. 
She said as a result of these practices it i~ no accident that in her estimate five million of the sixteen million Vietnamese are in refugee centers and the agricultural fabric of Vietnamese society is being destroyed. 
Bob Wall, an ex FBI agent, testified that he spent the bulk of his three years in the FBI's In­ternal Security Divison in Washington D.C. investigating • people that had not-bro"Kenany law. 
"We were investigating people who did not disrupt but merely who were peacefully trying to assert their Constitutional right to protest," said Wall. He said that the FBI extensively employed the use of informants and agent provocateurs in their--"counter­intelligence program." to keep abreast of what was happening among suspect peace and black ­groups.
He would have an informant talk "wilder, more radical, and more violent,:• than the others in the group, said Wall. 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
FOR SALE 

For Sale: 1 FANTASTIC Boys ­Girls 20" beginner bicycle. Low mileage, very lew dents. Call 272­1885 after 6 pm. 
Martin Classical Guitar, model 00-18C. Tom, 8018,after 11 pm. 
So you expected a blue movie! We 
can only offer a year-long in­tellectual festival. The Review of Politics is ttaving a sale of back issues and offprints and a sub­scription drive. Library Lobby, April 27, 28, 10-2 pm. 
1971 issues $.75 1968-70 issues $.50 Offprints $.25, 3 for $.50 Subscription $4.25 Subscribe now, rates go up January 1st. 
1965 Ford Fairlane, Excellent Condition. $475, John Kloos, 6987. 
1970 CB Honda, Good condition. $550 firm. 283-1470. 
, 8 Track closeout. Good tapes only $2.00 114 Farley 

1960 Red VW, 41,000 miles, Good transportation. $150. 289-4940. 
1968 Triumph, TR 250, 6 cyl, 4-sp, Conv, Tonneau, WW with radials. 4552 or 282-2485. 
FOR RENT 

3 Bedroom -7room house -nearby campus on Notre Dame ave. Suitable lor four people. Summer only. Call John or Bruce 8092. 
House for rent. Summer only. 2 blocks from N D. 3 to 5 bedrooms. $175 mo. Call Julie 4549. 
Married Law Student -Furnished apt. Two bedrooms-Call 272-8696. 
House lor summer. Students -4 bedroom home, completely furnished. l'lo baths. shower in basement, washer & dryer. phone 2327180. 
Cottages on the Lake Michigan shore for rent. GINTARAS RESORT, 15860 Lake Shore Road, 
Union Pier. Tel. 616-469-3298. 
PERSONALS 
! ! ! Attention!!! Correction: From J-a-n-e­J-a-y-n-e-OK Sprout? 

"Dear John": Happy Birthday, wish 1 could share it with you. Love, me (the other woman in your Iife). 
Sprout, You disappointed us Friday (4-14­
72). 
RJ & PG 
NOTICE 

Parts and ~ccesories for Importee cars. Foretign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 272 7187. 
Attention SMC!!!!!!! 
If you're not gigging your dying... so be at The Boone's Farm Festival 8:00, 4-29-72. Farley Basement 
Lounge. 
Mary Ann 234-3250 
Experienced typist. Will negotiate on rates. 
Will type anything for faculty or students. Call 232-0136. 
Dear Graduate Student: What's your gripe. Ollie ? Social Life? Money? See your G.S.U. 
G.S.U. Party-this Sat.-8:00pm ­Carroll Hall -Band, B.Y.O.A.; B.Y.O.B; B.Y.O.C.; B.Y.O.R. and anything else. 
Conneticut Residents! New Haven Club is sponsoring a baggage trunk which will stop in several cities. For info call Paul 7954 or Jess 3610. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: St. Mary's girl's Yellow overnight case at Indiana Cab Company, apparently lost before vacation. 
LOST: one catcher's mitt. Last Saturday behind Senior Bar. Reward. 283-1470. 
Found -Girl's watch -between Huddle and Psych Bldg call Steve 1744. 
LOST: 1 pair gold converse all stars. call 1026. 
LOST: Girl's School Ring. With Ivory insert and initials KAH. Sentimental Value. Reward. Call 8596. 
LOST: Man's ring. C-3 Parking Lost. Reward. Call Mike 233-6272. 
WANTED 

WANTED: We will do typing anytime for reasonable prices. Especially on short notice. Call Chip 8256 or Mike 6963. 
Need Ride Nashville Vicnity 

Around April 28th. Call Charley 6934. 
TYPING: Term papers, technical reports. thesis, dissertations, resumes professionally done. Selectric changeable type machine used. Prompt service, lree estimates -24 hour. phone 233-3257. EXPERT SECRETARIAL SERVICE. 
WILL BUY -+ Working 
refrigerators. couchs, chests, 
anything of value Call Mrs. 
Cooper -272-3004. 

Need ride to Detroit this weekend lor two. Could leave as early as Friday morning. Call Glen 1397 or A.T. 1715. 
Word~ 1(:;;-:7d-~"..3da 4~a -Sda 1-10 6'-H 1.15 1.35 1.55 11 IS 1.00 1 SO 1.85 2.10 2 40 16 20 1.30 1.95 1.15 i S5 2.B '21-25 1 70 1.55 3.20 3.85 4 45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 ~1-35 7 <5 3.6~ 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5 25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5 90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.~5 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 

.. 





