On The Inside 
A new look at the SLC ... page 2 The Senior Bar is renovated ... page 10 
Vol. VII No. 6 
------------------~------­

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Friday, September 15, 19n 



A smiling young Republican welcomes prospective participants to the campaign to re-elect the President on Activities Night. 
Activities night packs Lafortune 
by Colleen Feehan 
LaFortune Student Center last Wednesday served as a showcase for Notre Dame and St. Mary's "Activities Night," and for the first time actually appeared to fulfill its function as a "student center." 
"I was most impressed with the use of the center," commented Gary Caruso, one of the night's organizers. 
Interested students packed the building to meet with members of some sixty-five campus organizations representing a diverse corss-section of interests: athletics, media, politics, community service, debate, student government, major-related clubs, and regional groups. 
Some, such as WSND and the Chess Club, reported marked increase in membership in comparison with past years, while others registered a comparative decline. Despite ,c>uch a drop in some, the overall at­tendance seemed to indicate a general interest in cxtracurriculars on the part of the student body. 
A few complaints surfaced, one· of which was that some of the clubs were not adequately represented. This harmed them in that they lost some potential members because students received an impression of apathy. However, the main problem was the half-hour blackout which discouraged many. Security cleared the building until the lights came back on, but by that time most of the crowd had dispersed. 
Hesburgh speech highlights picnic 
By Mike O'Hare Observer Staff Reporter 
Speeches by University President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh and Notre Dame Humanitites Instructor Ms. Mary Lyn Broe highlighted the Campus Ministry's "A Sep­tember Thing-Picnic and Celebration" yesterday.
Described by Campus Minister Director Fr. William A. Toohey as a "highly festive warm welcome for Notre Dame students," "A Sep­tember Thing" featured a picnic with live rock music, speeches by Fr. Hesburgh and Ms. Broe concerning Notre Dame's first year of coeducation , followed by an evening Mass on the South Quad. Fr. Toohey hopes that this event will "inaugarate a year long concern about coeducation, human sexuality, and how we are going to live at Notre Dame." 
Fr. Toohey emphasized that "the campus ministry has a special concern with the new area of coeducation. We are concerned with helping the student find his own identity." After the low key beginning of "A September Thing," the campus ministry has under consideration the use of different apporaches and subject matter to questions of human sexuality a~d individual identity, including lectures, hlms, group discussions, and workshops. Fr. Toohey hopes that this program will help the students adjust to living in closer proximity and will be a very 
· positive step toward the student's maturation. 
Proclaiming that "each one of us is a part of the new history at Notre Dme," Fr. Hesburgh spoke of the hopes and challenges that coeducation will bring to Notre Dame. Hesburgh told the crowd of students, "You are making this place what it might yet be." and cited that Notre Dame in the past lacked a dimension which he hoped coeducation would resolve. 
Hesburgh desciribed his past attempts to "do 
something about bridging the gulfs in the world, gulfs between persons of different races and different religions." He then related his concern over the gulf between men and women, stating "One thing always bothered me, the fact that there wasn't a healthy attitude about women on this campus."
Conceding that "we have a long way yet to go," Hesburgh expressed the hope that "_Part ?f education from now on will be to commumcate m a meaningful way with all persons." He challenged Notre Dame students to "learn together be open to change, and to respect and love on~ another." Hesburgh concluded his remarks on coeducation by stating, "It (coeducation l is part of a great adventure that we are going on together," and hoped that coeducation atNotreDame would bridge the gulf 


Hesburgh: learn together, be open to change, and to respect and love one another. 
between men and women. 
In response to Fr. Hesburgh's remarks on 
coeducation, Ms. Broe spoke of the "paradox of 
women at Notre Dame." She descibed "the 
deification of women" by endowing them with 
such feminine virtues as "compassion, emotion, 
and intuition,"and the "insiduous use of these 
virtues against women to keep them from up­
ward mobility in the intellectual order." To her, 
"The real value of coeducation is the process of 
undoing, of recovering lost territory, and that 
only by this process can you discover these 
feminine virtues." 
Broe spoke of the quota system of 300 women 
and 7,000 men as "conspiring against Notre 
Dame women." She stated that the heightened 
visibility of women on campus excludes their 
intellectual and creates a false image that could 
have detrimental effects on the women if they 
personally accept this image." Broe viewed the 
effects of coeducation on St. Mary's students as 
requiring a transition from "a sought after 
public identity to a private identity." 
Broe also complained about not being 
adequately informed inadvanceconcerning "the 
content or direction of Fr. Hesburgh's remarks." 
She also spoke critically of her instructions to 
speak for only five minutes and ·•to raise hard 
hitting questions." 
Reactions to the remarks of the two speakers 
varied among the female students in attendance. 
One student complained about women indirectly 
"being called a piece of the scenery" by 
Hesburgh. Another female student was annoyed 
by Broes's statements, commentating that "She 
used a bunch of big words, but didn't represent 
the opinions of the average girl." 
,
,
, 
1 
~
A campus-, 1 
j

wide picnic 
••• pix on page 3 
Future club members scan the scene and check out the various organizations before the blackout. 
L_ 

Friday, September 15, 1972
the observer
2 

warld briefs 
<l' l 1!172 New York Times 
by Don Ruane Executive Editor 
.. Student Life Council elections for the six student represen­tatives will be held this Wed­nesday. This is the first part of a three part series presenting the outlook for 1972-1973 SLC from the point of view of student, faculty, and administrative representatives who are either running for re-election, were members last year, or are returining as members. Today the student outlook. 
Theoretically today is the last 
day to submit your petition for an 
SLC seat from one of the six 
campus districts, but Student Body 
President Bob Kersten said last 
night that, "It's alright with me," 
if they are returned this weekend. 
As of Thursday afternoon, onlv district five (Sorin, Walsh, Alumni, Badin, and Dillon) was without a candidate. Dennis Etienne, executive cooridnator of student government, said he would like to see a woman candidate, and that he would not object to write-in candidates from this or any other district. 
The other districts shape up as follows: Off campus, one can­didate; District 2 ('farley, Breen­Phillips, Cavanaugh, St. Ed's) one candidate; Towers, one can... :lidate ; District 4 <Stanford, Keenan, Zahm, Holy Cross, St. Joe's Moreau l one candidate, and District 6 (Fisher, Pangborn, Lyons, Morrissey, Howard), two candidates. ­
Etienne, who holds the seat normally occupied by the Student body Vice President, expects pessimism to prevail, unless there is a major issue which is at least partially decided in the student's favor. 
Somewhat in sympathy with Etienne, but more of a self declared "pessimistic optimist is Floyd Kezele of the Towers Distirct. He was vice chairman of the council the past two years, and is the only student with a solid background in SLC procedures. He is up for reelection. 
"There's going to be a lot of hard nose bargaining on a one on one basis this year," Kezele said, adding that it will require a lot of preparation by the student members. 
Lost Some Friends 

In the past students have found more friends among the faculty delegates than the administrative members, but the situation has changed according to Kezele. The faculty position is very weak, and this is unfortunate for the students," noting especially the loss of Prof. William D. McGlinn, a well known student reporter. 
We've lost some good men. This is going to be an SLC of entirely new faces," Kezele added. 
Although "Things could go" this year, accor<lmg to Kersten, he doesn't plan to attend any 
Washington--Mter more than a month of debate, the Senate Thursday approved the United States-Soviet agreement to freeze a major part of their offensive nuclear arsenals for five years. However, it added a proviso that any future treaty affecting the weapons should be on the basis of numerical equality. The agreement was approved by a vote of 88 to 2. 
Washington--The White House said it expected the signing of a com­prehensive trade agreement with the Soviet Union before the end of the year. and possibly within weeks. But opposition to the proposed agreement appears to be growing in Congress where sentiment was running increasingly as a result of the Soviet Union requirement that all Jews who wish to emigrate pay high exit taxes. 
Homt>--Pope Paul VI ordered abolition of the tonsure, the circular shaving of the crown of the head that has been a mark of Roman Catholic clerics since the early middle ages. The command that "first tonsure is no longer conferred" to symbolize the entrance into the clerical state was contained in one of two papal documents reforming church ministry below the priesthood. 
Nt>w York--Sen. George McGovern accused President Nixon of being "afraid of the people." The Democratic Presidential nominee, who was campaigning in New York renewed his challenge to Nixon to engage in a series of television debates. "I know he's hiding," McGovern said, "he's afraid of the people." 

change's sake." 
The SLC has treated manyObserver lnsil)ht .issues, although not very thoroughly in most instances, since 
meetings. He went to one last year and "found it so boring" that he read his art history assignment, and didn'-go to any more af­terwards. 
According to Kersh~n. who claims "I really don't give a shit" the SLC is ''all we've got wr the time being." He is pessimistic about the whole thing, and it is expressed when he says the func­tion of the council "is to make it appear as if a tri-partite body is running things around here." 
Kersten adds that the SLC is supposed to effect "long range improvement," but adds that this is done by the administration anyhow. 
Both Kersten and Kezele agree that there seems to be more potential for change in the SLC this year. Kersten attributes it to the reorganization of the Vice President for Student Mfairs of­fice. 
Kezele feels there have been signs, particularly from the ad­ministration, that indicate the advent of more open discussion of issues. In particular, he noted remarks by RFr..James Riehle, dean of students, which indicate a greater willingness to cooperate, such as those made Tuesday in Sorin Hall. Fr. Riehle said for example, that greater com­munication between. ad­ministration and students is essential for productive achievements. 
Another factor noted by Kezele, which might contribute to better relations, is this "whole snafu over freshmen bed shortages. He said this puts the administration "on the defensive" and will force them to "cater to the students" to a greater degree. 
-~--­

------~----~------~-----------------------------------------­
I·
Chan·· fiWS'~ &·BOOK. CENTER 
.~. .. ' 

it was frome din 1968. This year it since the SLC probably will not appears that coeducation will be a meet before the last week in major and continuing issue. 
September, or early October. 

Already, Fr. Riehle has According to Kezele, "It will have recommended the SLC look into 
to be well conceived,but fast. It solving the freshman room crisis can't be hasty, or change for and preparing for the possibility of 
So-uth Bend's Newest 

THE RED DOOR CLUB 
llO'l-'2 N. Main (Behind Wyman's in Allen's Alley~ 
BEER * WINE * LIQUOR 
Entertainment Wed. thr"U Sat. _ N.D. Nieht on Tuesday 
.____~Students and Faculty Welcome 
Naturalness is the Key To Your Hair Style 
A Full Service Shop Precision Cuts Blunt Cuts English Shags 

1637 Lincoln Way West . . t Ph. 232-6622
5 mmutes rom Notre Dame 
an campus taday 
3:30 p.m. lecture --"the role of political. theology," mrs. dorothee sollee, library auditorium 
7:00 lecture--joe tex, washington hall 
7:00, 9:00, & 11:00 movie --"who is harry kellerman and why is he saying those terrible things about me?", kc hall, $1. 
7:00 & 9:00 movie--"anatomy of a murder," zagran's zinema west, flanner hall, $1. 
8:00 concert --seals and crofts, stepan center, 
$2.50. 
8:00 & 10:00 movie --"women in love," engineering auditorium, $1. 
at nd-smc: 
another womans dorm in their territory, and there is even the possibility that discussion of coed dormitory will begin, according to Kezele. 
Etienne agrees that coeducation will generate some issues, and (continued on page 16) 
Tot staples in the jar. 
The jar is approximately square 
-3" x 3" x 43/a ". Look for the 
clue about "Tot" capacity. 
The "Tot 50"" is uncondition­
ally guaranteed. It staples, tacks, 
mends and costs only 98¢ sug­
gested retail price at Stationery. 
Variety and College Bookstores 
with 1,000 staples and vinyl 
pouch. Swingline Cub Desk and 
Hand Staplers for $1.98 each. 
Fill in coupon or send postcard. No 
purchase required. Entries must be 
postmarked by Nov. 30, 1972 and re­
ceived ·by Dec. 8, 1972. Final decision 
by an independent judging organization. 
In case of tie, a drawing determines a 
winner. Otter subject to all laws and 

void in Fla., Mo., Wash., Minn. & Idaho. 
IMPORTANT: Write your guess outside the envelope, lower lefthand corner. 
•ctue: 
(You could · ·· . 
between 200 and · 
300 Tots with the 
Staples in the jar.) 
Swlngline Honda 
P.O. Box 1 
New York, N.Y. 10016 
THERE ARE_STAPLES IN THE JAR 
Name____________________ 
Address---------------­
City·------------------­
State____________ Zip___ 
Teteph011e No.------------­
S~: 
32-00 Sktllman Ave., Long Island C•ly. N.V. 11 101J 

L--------------~ 
Students pessimistic about SLC 

(THE OBSERVER) 
Around the campuses 
Friday, September 15, 1972 Page 3 
Student govt fee for special activities 
by Bruce Petrovick 
Observer Staff Reporter 

Students attending N.D. may have seen an optional Student Governemtn Fee of $14.00 in their university bill. This fee is used by Student Governemnt to support it's various extracurricular activities on campus. 
Student Government usually gets $70,000-80,000 from students paying the fee. With these funds the Finance Committee makes recommendations and the Board of Commissioners then takes action on these proposals thereby producing the budget. 
The breakdown of last year's Activities Fee found seven of every $14 going to the Student Union which sponsors concerts, movies, and general activities for all students. Various student groups accounted for three of every fourteen dollars. These included such organizations as the Afro­American Society and Neigh­borhood Study Help Program. The Presidents Council received one of every fourteen dollars, which was used for hall renovations and An Toastal. The remainder was used by Student SGovernment for maintaining its office in Lafortune and sponsoring Freshman Orientation. 
The Office of Student Govern­ment was of the opinion that the fee was ample. However, as is usually the case, if they had more money they could do more. 
The formulation of this year's budget has been delayed because of the Administration's changes in it's accounting system. The ten­tative target date for the budget is the first week of October. Distribution of the money should begin shortly afterward. 
Halls get money 
by Jim Eder As a result of last year's appeal by a committee of residence hall presidents, the University's board of trustees has agreed to provide up to $50,000 for major hall renovations. The money is to be distributed through the office of Fr. Jerome Wilson, Vice President for Business Affairs, who will review and evaluate any petitions for funds. In order to receive such financial assistance, a hall president and his council must first demonstrate the need and validity of their request. According to Fr. Wilson, the express purpose of this fund is to support "worthwhile projects aimed at improving hall life on campus." Consequently, the money is not to be used for in­dividual needs, such as a new bed or desk, but for major renovations that will benefit everyone in the hall. As of this date no money has been allocated. Rumors that $250,000 had been designated and $150,000 of it spent renovating Badin and Walsh proved untrue. 

The campus eats outside 
Photos by Jim Hunt 


Friday, September 15, 1972
the observer

4 
Cost estimate $1.6 million 
ISLI Meetin,g





Law school modernization begins 
by J. Peter Berry  
Observer Staff Reporter The ND law building will face the  
knife this week Thomas L. Shaffer,  
dean of the law school, said  
Wednesday, as he revealed plans  
for the building's announced  
rennovations.  
The rennovations, which are  
expected to provide extra floor­ 
space will cost an estimated $1.6  
million.  
"Book capacity will be doubled  
and student seating space tripled,  
and the rooms will be air con­ 
ditioned and modernized," the  
dean noted. "We were severely  
cramped over there," he said.  
About 450 law students and 25  
professors are now holding classes  
at the old Wenninger Kirsch  
biology building. The students  
come from more than 110 colleges  
and universities throughout the  
U.S. and the world. Sometimes a  
college degree isn't necessary to  
be accepted.  
"We try to get a spread of people  
from all different backgrounds.  
We take some people just because  
they're interesting people,"  
Associate Dean David T. Link said.  
"We like people who really got  
turned on to something," Dean  
Shaffer added. The law school  
often accepts people already in  
other careers some with PHD  
degrees, a few in their fourties and  
fifties.  
Wcml"n and Minorities  
The first woman was admitted in  
the fall of 1966. This year there are  
more than fifty women law  
students. On the subject of  
r  minority group students the dean  
r  said, "We actively recruit  
r  minority group students and we  
r  have a tuition grant program. Ten  
r  or 15 percent of the entering class  
r  
r  
r  
r  
r  
r  
r  
t  
~  
~  
~  
r  
~  
~  

are minority group students." 
He added that 45 minority group students had been accepted to this year's first year's class but 15 are attending classes. Every tenth student at the law school is on scholarship. There are also three loan programs available. 
One of the pearls offered Notre Dame law students is the chance to study law their second year· at ND's school in London. The ex­perience helps 20 students to become more familiar with British and international law. Foreign year abroad programs in Latin America and Japan are planned for the future. Dean Shaffer noted that the Japan program would require fluency in Japanese. 
Summing up the school's changing ways the dean said "It's much more diverse than it used to be." Indeed, a sequence of courses on environmental law is offered and 11 students are involved in a three year and two summer course which combines a degree in law and environmental engineering. 
Asked about ND undergrads, Dean Shaffer said he likes it when they apply. "An ND applicant has some advantage getting in because we can learn more about him, but we don't exercise any conscious bias towards him," he added. 
Double Domers 
The dean mentioned that ND grads usually make up about 30 per cent of the school. "They make good lawyers," Associate Dean Link added, himself a graduate of the Notre Dame law school. "I'm a double domer." 
Dean Shaffer sees a great future for the ND law school. "We promise to be one of the top schools in the country and we already are," he said. 

Proposed floor plan of renovated law building will include more student seating and greater book capacity. Classes are temporarily being held in the Wen­ninger Kirsch biology building. 

SEALS and CROFTS 
in concert 

TONIGHT 
Sunday Sept. 17 1:30 Morrissey Hall Chapel 
STARTS TONIGHT Sept. 15-21 
THE FRENCH 
CONNECTIQ_N 
at 9:15 

at 7:15 
AVON THEATER 307 N. Michigan Ave. 288-7800 

r 
r 
AT Stepan Center 

r 
~ 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
Special-guest star: 

r 

Bonnie Koloc 
SHOWTIME -8:00 TICKETS WILL BE ON SALE AT THE DOOR 
See the group who received rave reviews for their performance at last week's Stonehenge festival in Indianapolis. 



BRING YOUR BLANKET
r 
r 
r 
.......... presented by the Student Union......... . 
r 
l r 
---~-------~---·-----------------­
Friday, September 15, 1972 the observer 
5 
•

Catholic presses scarce 1n us 
by Ann Therese Darin Among the 150 titles published by Press just sold its pr~nting Campus News Editor Observer _lnsifiht Harvard last year alone, Murphy operation and is subcontracting 
said that almost every department the work. 
Catholic university presses in the few university presses in the sities for cost-saving. Marquette on campus was represented in­Recently the Big 10 Universitythe United States are like the country to be moving into new, University, Milwaukee, Wise., has cluding the Law School and the Presses bonded together in a number of sunny days in South larger quarters. also ceased publication in the last Graduate Business School. Notre consortium based in Chicago to Bend lately ... there just aren't that According to Ronald Man­decade. Dame, on the other hand, only has publish manuscripts. However, at many. sbridge's article "Towards An But, the financial squeeze is not confined itself to only a few this writing different universities 
Yesterday, The Observer tried to Ideal University Press" (Scholarly limited to Catholic university humanities departments in the have broken away from the union locate a few Catholic university Publishing, April, 1971) there are presses. Many state and private University. and resumed their separate presses to use as comparisons to five ways to finance a university universities have also re-evaluated At Yale University, New Haven, identities. Notre Dame's financially-troubled press. "First, by an annual ap­their publishing operations lately. Conn., the Press is financed by a There are other university press operations. After un­propriation from university funds. At Harvard University, the different means. presses in the nation that The successful tries at Boston College, Second, by obtaining a capital Press operates similarly to Notre "We're actually a department of Observer did not contact. These Georgetown University, Xavier endowment which will provide an Dame. As a division of the the university,'' explained Whitney presses, operated by large state University, John Carroll income sufficient to meet annual University, it is non-profit making. Blake, assistant Press director. and federally-funded universities, University, St. Louis University, deficits. Third, by obtaining a For the last two years, it hasn't "But, we have our own endowment by their size and <far-ranging) and St. John's University is succession of subsidies to cover the even come close. fund." financial sources could not provide Queens, New York, a press was cost of individual books or jour­"We had the biggest loss that a Although Blake could not release solutions to the local Press's located at Loyola University, nals," Mansbridge states. press at Harvard has ever had, two Yale's latest Press budget, he financial difficulties. Chicago, Ill. Mansbridge also lists publishing years ago," recalled Mr. Brian confirmed that it has a $2 million For example, at the University 
Loyola can maintain one of the on commission and making the Murphy, business manager. "Our sales volume. This compares with of Michigan Press, which is a few Catholic presses in the nation, operation self-sustaining with risk losses totaled over $500,000. Last Notre Dame's $143,548.64 figure for state-funded institution, the explained Mrs. Mary Fitzgerald, <best-seller) publishing. year, by comparison, our loss was the same period. university pays all the plant costs an editorial assistant, because, Despite these five different ways only $347,000." Despite this endowment, Yale is including the ~nufacturing ex­unlike Notre Dame, its operation is to fund a university press, The Murphy attributes the lower also losing money, but by a very penses of the first edition. 
not directly funded by the Observer could only locate two figure to a reduction in the number insignificant amount when viewed In a memorandum to University University. Since 1902, it has been other operating Catholic university of manuscripts published and with the other universities The Press Board Members distributed 
incorporated. presses west of the Mississippi greater selection in the quality of Observer polled. Blake traces the Although the press there has besides Notre Dame's. books chosen. As at Loyola, Press's loss to the fact that the (continued on page 16) lately been losing money, it tries to Commercial publishing com­Murphy added that Harvard also 
offset losses by producing a sub­panies took over presses which publishes a lot of textbooks which In the heart 
stantial number of Jesuit-written previously were operated by are used nationwide, including The 
of downtown
English grammar and religion Catholic and Duquesne Univer-Harvard Dictionary of Music. 
textbooks geared to grades 3-12. In 
South Bend 
addition, it publishes 15 scholarly 
manuscripts. In contrast, Notre 
Dame reduced textbook publishing 

GOOD FOOD AT MODEST PRICES
several years ago in religion--a 
previous money-maker. HOURS, 

·Steaks ·Chops ··Chicken Sea Food 
MON -TUES -THUll -FRI
Fordham University, Bronx, 
9 AM 5:30 I'M 

Quiet atmosphere -ple9sant
New York, operates the only other WED -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON COMPLETE S1'BCI'ACLE

Catholic Press which The Ob­surroundings
SERVICE


RoGERS
server could locate. The key to ALL fH DR.'S 
their continued existence is that PllfSCRIPTIONS HONOIEC 

Call :.~w--ARJ.tq S CLOSED
the university pays the salaries of 

Optical mt \ _ .the University Press employees. MONDAYS The Press, which has a modest 289-7809
ltOGEII ATWRL -OWNER 

appropriation, is only required to '~-~:1(~~\.' Daily & Sunday 
11 am till 9 pm
pay for the production and ?;'/ L7.J )'>~;;:--:

I( Saturday
marketing. 
11 am tilllO pm
This system may be one of the 105 WEST Colfll AV[., SOIITH IEID most successful. Fordham is one of 



...........................................................................................................................................................................................................:..............................................................""':''''''''"'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''~ 
Cultural Arts Commission 
and 
The South Bend Art Center 
present 






MUSEUM 
OUT WALLS 
Sept. 18 Picasso: War, Peace and Love * Goya Sept. 25 Giotto and the Pre-renaissance* Grete and Mycenae Oct. 2 The Art· Conservator * Kinetic Art in Paris Oct. 9 Le Corb~usier * The Greek Temple * The Impressionists Oct. 16 The Cubist Epoch * Germany-Dada 
EVERY MONDAY NIGHT FOR 5 WEEKS 
Shows at 8:00 and 10:00 pm 
$1.50 for students and faculty 

Engineering Auditorium • $6.00 for all five nights
......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
-----------~­
Friday, September 15, 1972

the observer 
Voter registration focuses on campus-wide canvass 
By Ann Therese Darin 
Campus News Editor 
Call the University of Notre Dame to find out a student's telephone number and special student operators, members of the Arnold Airforce ROTC Society, will not only fulfill your request, but also remind you to register to vote. 
This is only one of many techniques being used by both Notre Dame and neighboring St. Mary's College to insure that its students, an electorate of 10,000 votes, are franchised under the new 18 Year Old Voting Act. 
"At the college, we believe our job is educating people to become educated people, an educated electorate. Since it has been shown that the American people get the kind of government that they deserve, we felt that we would be raising the standard of American Government by encouraging the students to get involved," ex­plained Ms. Kathleen Mullaney, St. Mary's College dean of students. 
The college plans a door-to-door canvass in all dormitories using the school's resident assistants, aides to the dean of students. During registration for the fall term classes last week, both the college and university sponsored voter registration desks manned by Indiana State deputy registrars, which added close to 500 new student voters to the rolls. 
A technique being used at the College, which is becoming popular is to encourage students to register both at home and at school to avoid the intracacies of applying for and filing an absentee ballot. According to Richard Bohan, SMC political science instructor, this is perfectly legal as long as the voter does not cast ballots more than 

Broden: The Law School has a voter counselling service available. 


Applications are now being accepted for positio~s on The University Judicial Board and The University Traffic Appeals Board CONTACT Greg Smith 
Notre Dame· Student Government Notre Dame, Indiana 
46556 


Swartz: the McGovern people 
approached us to register 
students on campus. 
once during a nationai election. 
At the University of Notre Dame, Ms. Jeanne Swartz, assistant to Acting Vice-President for Student Affairs Philip Faccenda, is not sure about the dual registration. Her office has already discovered that if a student registers at school as well as at home, and is covered under his parents home owner's insurance, this may invalidate the premium. 
Because of a special 
Congressional enactment, any one 
who has lived in an area for thirty 
days prior to a national election 
may register to vote for only a 
presidential and vice-presidential 
candidate. 
Questionned on whether students 'can maintain more than one voter registration, Tom Broden, a voting 
registrar, refered all problems to 
the Legal Aid Office. 
"I do not think that it can be 
done," Broden said. "The Law 
School which is temporarily being 
housed in the old Biology Building 
has established a voter counseling 
service with difficulties." 
Broden, director of the Urban Studies Institute, reports that three deputy voting registrars will work in the Urban Studies Office (214 Rockne Memorial) to en­franchise voters until Sept. 23. 
After the 23rd, qualified students may register to vote at the Fire Station behind McDonald's on Michigan A venue south of 
Notre Dame. "The reason that we got involved in voter registration at Notre Dame," Ms. Swartz said, "is that the McGovern people approached us to register students on campus. In Indiana voting registration is weird. Each party has its own 
voting registrars. We didn't want 
to appear to be opening up Notre 
Dame strictly to McGovern forces, 
so we invited the GOP voting 
registrar and the League of 
Women Voters to come in, too." 
Ms. Swarts stressed the University's non-partisanship. However, she added that the McGovern forces are very strong on campus with voter registration, while the Nixon supporters do not have the same momentum. McGovern supporters have dorm captains and floor captains in every hall on campus acting as catalysts for getting out the student vote. 

(continued on page 16) 
Make a in Butt 
Yes, buttons. Selling them on and around campus... 
You just tell us what you want on the buttons. We'll do all the artwork, m~ke the buttons, and ship them directly to you. You only pa·( our costs-which you'll find incredibly low-and charge whatever you'd Iike when you sell. You'll have no overhead, and all your calls to us will be toll free. 
People buy buttons tor sporting events, for meetings, for elections, for causes, for slogans...the applications are limitless. 
airsl on NBC tonig~ 
Two NBC newsmen covered ~e Dame and St. MarysNotre s this week for material to 
:~k':fon the WMAQ five o'clock news tonight and MondaY. 
The broadcast will focus on ~e decision of St. Mary's to gma~ autonomous, afn~tsN~:t r:~:l: 
acceptance o 1 undergraduates. . h channel five 
The sho:W w1U~~end and the viewers m Sou There is a Chicago area. 't will also reach possibilitY thatt 1 dt as well as the 
the national ne wo 
Today shoW. 

killing ns. 
.. c ~ .2 
=;a
..
Just clip this attached E ii "' 
coupon and mail it to us, and 
.., 0 
we'll send you everything c .. you need to get started. 0
"' 
~-~ 
=0
u.. z 


There is no extra charge! It can save you money! 
With a Student Billing Card, a 
dorm resident may make long dis­
tance telephone calls with the privacy 
of the dorm room phone and get an 
individual bill once a month. 
And you can take advantage of 
Direct Distance Dialing ... the eco­
nomical way to call long distance, 
within Indiana or out of state. 
We'll mail you a Student Billing Card, if you'll call 234-5088. Or you can drop in at our Business Office at 307 South Main. Open 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. 
@ Indiana Bell 


------------~ 
------------------------------------------------------------------, 
7

Friday, September 15, 1972 the observer 
\ 


sometimes iohn brandi 
there's no way to get there from here 
to and from school, or to the beach, or oc­casionally to the mountains. I'd go on long trips to get out of the ma~h and clatter ofAlternative Features Service 

city life --sometimes just for kicks, to see how far I could get. 'Fhere was no one waiting for me on the other end, nobody to stop me with apple pie 

"Look, John, I'm trying to help you. Now, or stuff a few peaches in my pack. I'd turn · I'm giving you this warning and I'm telling around, dead broke, and hitch back home. you to grab a bus outta this state before we Church couldn't hold me, or take me into catch you again because if we nab you myself, so on Sunday morning I'd be out on another time you'll be in jail until Monday the freeway ramp, salami and rye under my and if you don't have any money you'll be in shirt and a J?air of trunks buttoned beneath jail until Monday and if you don't have any my Levi's, en route to Malibu or Santa money you'll stay there until somebody can Monica. My parents, God save them, would post your bail. And if no one posts your bail, be back in the varnished pews, praying for you're screwed, John. So I'm warning you. my life and the forgiveness of my sins. I'm trying to help you; it's against the law to I hadn't even a rucksack in those days, hike on this road. It's for your own only a bundle wrapped under my arm like a protection, John. Cars hit people like you true vagabond. "Organized" hitching all the time; why, just the other night we hadn't come about yet, so if you looked scraped a couple of packers off the in­freaky, you could count on no ride. terstate and lifted them to the morgue. So Nowadays, hitching is an art of travel 
I'm warning you, John." enjoyed no longer as something "different" 
Somehow the whining speech of this by an esoteric few; but by thousands of polished and starched man in blue doesn't youths each day, making their ways cross­quite ring true. How can he be helping me' if country to homes, universities, communes, he's throwing me off the road, telling me to religious colonies, abortion clinics, rock catch a bus or take a back road (gravel and festivals, and anti-war demonstrations. traveled only by farmers and local milk­The road is not a lonely place. Interstate men) 150 miles to the Kansas border? And highways (1-70, I-40, 1-80 -no longer since I've only $20 to get to New York, how romantically called "66" or "The Denver can I spend $17 of that just to leave Route" or "The Lincoln Highway") are Colorado? crowded with people thumbing down other 
My hitchhiking days started in the butch­people, sharing nylon-aluminum knapsacks haircut innocence of the late fifties, loaded with folding tents, sleeping gear, thumbing truckers out of LA to the Mojave freeze-dried ice cream, Zen bibles, Desert towns, to Reno, Lovelock, Boise, and obtaining a ride on most major roads; back. medicinal herbs and homegrown dope. 
Like most suburban boys, I'd also thumb Looking freaky is no longer a liability in 

a relic of 
the civil rights era 
display of independence, he courageouslytom brom tosses aside his programmed notes at a news conference. His self-assurance grows, 
Alternative Features Service but he remains aloof from open expressions of solidarity with other blacks, preferring
Released hot on the heels of The Can­instead quiet counsels in the White Housedidate and in time at least for one of the with black Congressional leaders.
national party conventions, The Man is a Oilman's militant daughter, and thethoroughly opportunist relic of the civil encounter with the accused black assassinrights era, exhumed solely to exploit Wheeler, serve to gut-check the President
widespread interest in the approaching his blackness. In con­
about separateelections. 

frontations, each calls him "house nigger"The script is an implausible em­and storms out of the Oval Office.

barrassment for screenwriter Rod Serling, and for actor James Earl Jones, who plays Tile film's drama pivots on two emotional the first black U.S. President. Billed as film speeches by Dilman. In the first, after about balck ascendancy to political power, discovering he has been used by Wheeler to The Man reveals instead a compulsive and protect a genuine assassination plot, unintentional study of white fear, racist to Dilman rages at the militant's reference to the core and finally blind as ever to black the passion of his act. "Our people don't culture and identity. lynch," Dilman says. "Our people don't 
James Earl Jones plays Douglas Dilman, bomb little school children." That's only for President Pro Tern of the Senate wlho Whitey. suddenly finds himself the Chief Executive Later he delivers a speech to the press, when the President dies in an accident and calling it "imperative that Wheeler be the infirm Vice-President refuses to succeed extradited" to South Africa despite the him. The opening sequence is tightly edited, national protest that Wheeler could not dramatic and fun, as the credits finally receive a fair trial there. "We cannot appear on Jones' black face while llle continue to govern by assassination," he receives the call from the Chief Justice. says, quoting from the epitaph of Martin 
It's all downhill from there. Sli1~k Luther King. "It can't go on." television production techniques cannot Not only does this precede Oilman's sustain the film's major device: tllle convention bid for nomination to a full term President's iD:volvement in the case of a it elicits reluctant, proud applause from hi~ black A.m~ncan stude~t ~cc':lsed of,, daughter, and ends the film. mastermmdmg an assassmabon m Soul;b With these pious sentiments Dilman Africa. That piece of high dra~~ was ~rn shows America that he is safe, he is just like on the Param~unt lot; the o:igmal ~mg any WASP inside, he certainly wouldn't Wallace potboile~ had Pre~ident Dilman offer any special treatment to a Brother. In framed for attackmg the white. datlghter ~f effect, he disowns his own constituency and the Secretary of State! But if Wallac~ s his own people It's fine for LBJ to champion novel hinged on the .mo,st prevalent wh~te Texas interests throughout his career, fear of blacks, Serhng s replacement m-Nixon to favor Southern California, Wallace volves Fear Number Two-that of black to fight for the South, but Oilman has to solidarity. . . prove he's just as white as The Man. He's 
Jones plays Prestdent Dilman as a got Principles. He believes in Fairness. He retiring black professor from New Hamp-certainly wouldn't be so gauche as to have shire, deemed safe enough to name race consciousness, or use the power of his President Pro Tern of the Senate as a sop to office for his own oppressed culture. Gulf + civil rights advocates. As Chief Execubve, Western who made this film seems to like however, .his anger ris~s at the imm~ate him this' way, but it certaWy came as a and persistent exclusion he experiences surprise that Jam~ Earl Jones would from his new Presid4!ntial advisors. In a mouth those speeche!s. 
there's probably another freak conveniently on his way to the same place you are, bumping along in a van, converted milk truck, model-T, or even grinding along in a semi. 
Hitchhiking is pretty much a "functional" effort these days. The U.S.A. is choking on poverty; people are running loose without a dime in their overcoats. The hitchhiker is no longer an eccentric out on a spree. You're more likely to meet a serious dude AWOL from the army (on one recent trip at least a third of the hitchers I met were) a college student going home for a break: a c~uple en route to Boston from Berkeley wit~ a package of educational toys under their arms, or a poet like myself going to rap and read and hold a workshop at some distant university for a little bread and brotherly interchange, or just "simple" people out looking for work--hitching because they've no money for a car or because they think there're too many automobiles for too few people and are 
chhiking is illegal there. . . The penalty can be anything from a $25 to $100 fine to a jail sentence--and there's always a gross delay in cross-country travel even if you're not busted. (A thorough coverage of the pedestrian laws in all the states, plus some pretty gruesome tales of bad rides caught in-between good one, comes in a new book called Side of the Road: The Hitchhiker's Guide to the United States <April. 1972, Simon and Schuster, paperback, $1.951 which was written by Ben Lobb and Sarah Links.) 
But it isn't just outrageous laws that imperil the hitchiker; it is the roads, and the automobiles themselves. 
City and country roads in more progressive communities now have lanes for bicyclers. Yet nothing is provided on interstate throughways: there're no lanes for cross-country bikers or for people without motorized means of travel. No wayside stations are set up for the hit­chhiker. The only conveniences offered 

det~rmined .to boycott the car culture by thumbers are bulletin Qoards at a few buymg a pair of shoes and polishing their universities where possible rides to such­thumbnails. and-such destination are listed. 
But hitchhiking--and hitchhikers-are in For the true protection of hitchhikers and danger. Thumbers need protection-but not the preservation of hitchhibing as a means the Man's kind of "Protection," where he of travel, much can be done. Restrictive writes you a warning ticket while checking laws must be repealed. Separate lanes could your eyeballs through his mirrored shades, be furnished on interstate highways--the seeking bloodshot rings or dilated pupils. routes most commonly traveled by thum­
In states as strict as Ohio or Colorado, bers because they provide the most direct where you have to possess a sort of tran­rides and the best chances of getting picked l,scendental power to thumb a ride, you must up. And would it really be unfeasible to stand opposite the traffic going your way establish wayside A-grames or hostels and act the idiot, hands in pockets trying to where the overnighter may be put up free or meditate a ride on the other side of the in­at minimal charge and have a shower and a terstate highway; in other words, hit-bowl of hot soup? 
~ 
, 
,1 , ~ 
1,
fr. griff's 

, 
Announcing A CLUTTERED, DIM­LIGHTED PLACE, a sanctuary for the Night People of N.D.-S.M.C. Things to drink, people to talk to, the resident guru on duty at all times. Open Monday through Thursday, from 1:00 
A.M. to 5:00 A.M., 120 Keenan <Griffin's digs). The Night Division of the Campus Ministry welcomes you to the quiet hours with the Rector of Keenan in A CLUTTERED, DIM­LIGHTED PLACE. 
morriS CIVIC: maybe , 
early October, and other possibilities for ,1 
pete kernan later in the season include Cheech and ,Chong, the J. Geils Band, Procul Harum, ,and Uriah Heep. In the past year, such ,
groups as Yes, Alice Cooper, Bloodrock, 

The recently-remodeled Morris Civic Edgar Winter, Canned Heat, Chase, Auditorium in downtown South Bend Brownsville Station, and Spirit have played presents the Siegal-Schwall Blues Band in at Morris Civic, but most of these concerts concert this Saturday, September 16, at 8:00 were held when Notre Dame was not in 
p.m. Corky Siegel and his band are making session. Efforts are now being made to their annual appearance here in South familiarize rock concert promoters with Bend. Last December, they appeared at Notre Dame's schedule and also to acquaint Stepan Center. TWo years ago, they gave a Notre Dame and St. Mary's students with memorable performance on An Tostal the various entertainment and cultural Weekend, also -at Stepan Center. Last events that take place at the venerable old Friday, Siegel-Schwall headlined at the Ann theater on Michigan Avenue. Arbor Blues Festival, along with Howlin' Gospel and country music concerts are Wolf and Jr. Walker and the All-Stars, in held on a regular basis, in addition to con· front of an enthusiastic crowd of over 15,000. cert stops by such teen idols as Bobby 
On Saturday, they brought the crowd to its Sherman and James Brown. The South feet at the Indianapolis Speedway Festival, ·Bend Broadway Theater League presents as did Chuck Berry, Fleetwood Mac, It's a an annual series of plays at the Civic, and Beautiful Day, and Argent. Resurrection, versions of Hair and Jesus Christ Superstar also on Saturday's show with the Siegel-have played at Morris Civic in the past. Schwall Blues Band, achieved notoriety Earlier this year, Governor George Wallace throughout the state of Indiana when they gave a campaign speech at the Civic, which were known as the Ritual. Advance tickets unfortunately for many of Mr. Wallace's for Saturday's concert are available at supporters here on campus, was scheduled Pandora's and at the Morris Civic Box on the same night that Jethro Tull played Office for $3.50. Tickets bought at the door the A.C.C. For the information of freshmen on Saturday night will cost $4.00. and other uninitiated and curious, the 
Saturday's concert is the first of the fall Morris Civic Auditorium is centrally located series of rock concerts scheduled at the in downtown South Bend, .on the west side of Morris Civic. John Mayall is already Michigan Avenue <U.S. 31), 2 blocks south of booked at the Morris Civic for a concert in McDonald's. 


THE OBSERVER 
News: 283-1715 Ed1tonal: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd Editor-in chief 
Don Runne Executive Editor Dan Thornton Business Manager 

Joe Butler Advertising Manager 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behnll of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Friday, September 15, 1972 

fram l:he edil:ar!ls desk: 
A Political Year 
Everyone knows there is a new con­stituency on campus. Not the female students, but the 18 year old voter. These votes, more than any single development in the lifetime of any college student, have the potential to transform the resigned disillusionment that has settled on Notre Dame and many other college campuses into a vibrant, very exciting couple of months. 
It's a newspaperman's dream come true. Now all the coverage of national politics has been legitimized in a manner completely impossible before the en­franchisement of college students. Throughout the country students have sampled the power of electoral politics and many have found the uniqueness of the 18 year old vote has made events 
·possible that may never be so easy again. 
Voter power 
In Ann Arbor, Michigan, the Human Rights Party which is completely con­trolled by students at the University of Michigan won two seats on the nine seat City Council. By forcing a coalition with the regular democrats they are able to act as the majority party in the city. 
In fact, at least one member of our own freshman class has run, unsuccessfully, for local office. 
The nine million citizens of the United States who will vote for the first time in the November elections are being openly courted by both major parties. Democrats and Republicans have budgeted large sums of money for ad­vertising in college newspapers. Both Richard Nixon and George McGovern have been invited by Fr. Hesburgh to speak on campus. McGovern replied that 
daanesbury 
r 
r 
r 
,r 
,.
, 
r r r r 
he is trying to fit the trip into his "busy" schedule. While Nixon has not yet given a formal reply, the Student Union Academic Commission is already preparing for his visit. 
Coming attractions 

Even if the candidates do not campaign in person in South Bend, The Observer is already planning extensive coverage of the November elections. An in-depth feature on a local convention attended by several staff members is coming next week. Two faculty members and a member of the newly re-organized Vice­president of student affairs staff have already agreed to do periodic election analyses. The articles will focus on the major economic and political issues of the campaign. 
In addition, reviews of Robert Sam Anson's biography McGovern and John Osborn's Second Year of the Nixon Watch are being prepared. 
Hopefully, this coverage will not be in vain. The last two years have not been very good political years on campus--­here or anywhere else. But many students are already registered to vote. If recent trends are any indication, the voter registration drive on campus won't let up until nearly all Notre Dame and St. Mary's students have registered either in South Bend or in their hometowns. 
It may be a little aggravating to be constantly reminded to register everytime you dial 3222 (campus directory assistance), but the results promise to be intriguing, or at the very least fun to watch. 
John Abowd 

by raarry trudeau 

Crasslakes 
Understanding 

the Situation 

iaseph abell 
"Why should their liberty than ours be more?" The Comedy of Errors,l,ii. 

In the past few years, there has grown a seemingly infinite number of "movements" that congratulate themselves on the supposedly brilliant genius of their inceptions and the startlingly new reason for those in­ceptions. Most of these movements deal mainly with liberty and the individual's pursuit of happiness, and many are definitely to be lauded. This is rapidly becoming the era of increased human freedom of ex­pression, though hopefully it will not increase so much as to become anarchy. 
But the one curious aspect of thse movements is the demand for im­mediacy. "This is an idea whose time has come; the current situation must be changed," is the cry and the implication of the members of the varied groups. Never mind what the situation is; it has to be changed. Poles and Italians are the butts of many, many jokes and stories, and that must stop now. Blacks have been slaves in one way or another for two hundred years, and that must be halted now. Gays have been shunned and despised for as far back as anyone can remember; that must be changed now. Women have been treated as inferiors everywhere, so we mustquitthatnow. And I say heartily, "Right on!'' 
But is this possib' ~ Is it a practical viewpoint that sees that hundreds of years of outlooks a1d prejudices will completely change overnight? I think that's a poor reflection on mankind, but that is what mankind is: a poor reality to his own dreams and utopias. I'm not saying that the goals of groups fighting for liberty will never be realized; I honestly think they will, eventually. 
A harsh word? Perhaps. Surely an incomprehensible one to the members of such gr:oups demanding immediate cures to their social victimization. But by eventually I try not to mean a purposely vague time, assumed to be in the far future, a word meant to placate the less zealous of the groups. By it I mean a time that is such as cannot be scheduled right away. Granted,that could mean500 years, but it could also mean next week. A goal that is reached eventually is one that is the end product of a carefully thought out process, so carefully thought out that it is worthwhile enough to reach that goal. 
And that is the main burr under the saddle of a great deal of modern movements: they are not really worth the while to reach their goals, and hence they become only a flashbulb of activity in the inferno of day to day living, ideas that appear and promptly disappear because the vast majority never really gave a damn anyway. 
Why? Because they are notthoughtout enough. And an important 
part of that process is thinking about and understanding the current situation. You can't change something unless you know what it is, and that eludes much more than what the situation appears to be Prime examples of this failure appeared recently in an article in 
ObserverbyMs. Maria Gallagher. Her movement: women's rights, the few laudable ones left. Her thesis: that St. Mary's women are 
realizing their potential as persons, rather than women, again a lauda occurence. 
llowever. while her movement and thesis are both worthy of support praise. and congratulations, her reasoning for the attainment of her goals is faulty. 
First· of all, she cites the Miss Universe pageant as demeaning to women. "Parade of flesh" is her wording. But is it entirely a contest of exclusively physical attributes? Admittedly, the actual television show likes to display the more gaudy parts of the competition, i.e., the bathing suit competition, but isn't there really a great deal more to attaining the honor ? Ask any of the contestants how many hours, weeks, months, even years of practice has gone into her specialty or talent. Look at the box of judges: a percentage of them are women --you won't find them looking at sleek legs and large busts, except perhaps in envy. Even the attitudes of the girls themselves: how many were forced to join the competition merely because they were physically attractive. Yes, Ms. Gallagher," you have it or you don't" but that can mean a hell of a lot of things besides looks. 
Anew individualism at St. Mary's? Possible, but perhaps one that was forced on the College. SMC women are doing without Notre Dame because SMC' women don't have much choice. I would estimate that over half of theSt. Mary'sstudents would jump at the chance to become Notre Dame students: personally I know quite a few that are awful disap­pointed that they're not. 
Another point: despite what many feminists claim, I feel that there really are such things as male and female instincts, if for no other reason than the female of most species is physically smaller than the male and derived her role from that. I agree with Ms. Gallagher that in modern society the female is an equal to the male, since physical prowess no longer has any bearing on out-level survival, but don't kid yourself that the instincts aren't there. Just see how many wives will abandon their child along with their husband. 
Finally, the inevitable mention of Ms magazine. A damn good idea, but not the kind of magazine that Ms. Gallagher makes it out to be. By comparing Ms. to such magazines as JP/ayboyand Esquire she shows that she has never bothered to actually rea atnot page through and look at the pictures, but rea,dl these latter magazines. If she did, she would see m that they are not glorified movement pamphlets, but entertainment magazines, geared to a much larger audience than Ms. is. Playboy seeks to entertain; Ms. seeks to preach. Comparing them would be like comparing Archie Bunker to Eldridge Cleaver. 
Ms. Gallagher is partially right in her claims, though. The original idea behind a Miss Universe is demeaning to women, St. Mary's has become . more self-aware of its individuality, female and male instincts are fairly useless in modern society. and it is about time that there was a women's magazine that presents more than a dollar's worth of ad­vertising. But in her article it is obvious that she has failed to do her homework. and really look into the situation as it currently is and that includes looking at it from both sides. 
And that's what more of the leaders (and followers) of the various movements need to do. Then maybe they would see the absurdity of demanding an immediate change in the situation, and would instead work to bring about an eventual' and permanent change. Perhaps then there would be fewer movements and more successful ones. 
Nite Editor: Joe Abell 
Ass't Nite Editor: Marlene Zlosa Layout: Maria Gallagher, AI Rutherford, Bill Brink Day Editor: Bill Sohn 
Typists: Diane Chermside, Dennis Anastasoff, Howard Halle, Dave Barry, Bob Barringer, Pat Strobel, Jeanne Eastely 
Nite Controller: Joe Wilkowski 


Friday, September 15, 1972 the observer 
9 




baker 



Total rebuttal 
a wheat deal, or that big grain dealers disposal, thus proving the Democratic the sun, declaring, "Golly, it's a lovely day by Russell Baker profited from it, or that the treasury had candidate careless with his facts. here in Tahiti." And next day, page one, the 
(c) New York Times subsidized it---if Butz had not been ordered One imagines, finally, McGGovern, able White House having whistled to thebeacbfor to rebut McGovern. to take no more, rebutted by Butz, Wayland help, the chief of the U.S. weather bureau, 
Washington, Sept. 13-0ne of the few Many of us, in fact, wouldn't have thought by Laird, Debunked by Bunker, Halted by carrying satellite photos taken from over things in Washington that really works well about McGovern at all, except for the ad­Haldeman, galled by Gallup polls proving Tahiti at the time the senator made his 
is President Nixon's campaign organization ministration's insistence on forcing the hair the futility of it all, slippinng away to Tahiti, statement., saying,_ "Contra~?' to Senatro for sQuelching Senator McGovern. shirt upon us. stepping out of his shack to paint, admiring McGovern s assertion..... Whenever the Senator says anything that Once we did start thinking about him 
might be construed as damaging to the again, of course, it was with a sense of Predident's chances for re-election, some relief. Even Republicans must have been wickermember of the administration immediately pleased to learn that he was still cam­
calls a news conference to say that paigning; it isn't much fun winning if you McGovern is all wrong. The idea, can't beat somebody, even when you get the presumably, is that with dozens of ad­whole Supreme Court to display in your ministration handymen pecking away at trophy case. • every thing he says, McGovern will feel as if Whatever its purpose, the White House 
The ISSUe of 1972 
he is being bitten to death by ducks and give rebuttal program has the effect of keeping 
the McGovern campaign in the headlines. Ifup. The technique of hitting McGovern with McGovern's speech of the day is overlooked by Tom Wicker every gun in Washington is being used so by the entire republic, the White House <c> 1!!72 New York Times
efficiently that you can hardly sneak past gives us a second chance to catch it next comment on the "success" of Viet-the television set without seeing some day. namization. cabinet member nobody has heard of for The determination to let nothing go NEW YORK, SEPT.Il--President Nixon has
un­
Could han• ht•t•n a knot·kout 

years announcing tthat McGovern is a challenged is an old passion of the President taken American ground combat troops out Muddlehead. as campaigner. Most politicians, certainly of the war and therefore American casuali­Another is the continuing display of North The program may, in fact, be working too at the Presidential level, accept campaign ties are down, but American war prisoners Vietnamese and Vietcong military en­well. Where in Wahington nobody ever talk in much the same way that voters do. are nowhere near freedom. "Viet­terprise in South Vietnam--despite the in­
That is, as mostly irrelevant, occasionally namization" has never looked more
hears of McGovern anymore except when a credible weight of American bombing in cabinet secretary or a White House aide or a mendacious and almost entirely not worth dubious, the Thieu regime has never North and South, and despite the mining of deputy assistant to the assistant deputy paying much attention to. seemed a less attractive ally, and neither Hanoi's ports.American officers now are calls a press conference to announce that Nixon, however, has the teutonic zeal for lethal bombing nor mining of its harbors has claiming that the North Vietnamese threat McGovern is wrong. thoroughness, the lawyer's passion for ended North Vietnam's ability to carry on to Hue has been ended, but in the last week If it weren't for the Republican policy of covering every possible contingency, for and perhaps intensitfy the war. Saigon lost an important base camp in the 
total rebuttal, many of us would probably spelling out the distinction between a little Even congress continues to pick at central highlands and suffered setbacks at 
have forgotten that McGovern still existed. and a lot, for leaving no stone unturned, no Nixon's vietnam policy, despite his success Tienphuoc 35 miles south of the important He seems to have gone out West sometime mind unstunned. If McGovern will not in fending off end the war legislation. In city of Danang. during the summer and disappeared. make himself heard out in the West, the approving the Biggest defense bill ($74.6 Together with vigorous North Vietnamese 
Except for the Predident's rebuttal men, President will plant ears along his path and bi,lion( since world warll, for instance, the and Vietcong activity in the Mekong Delta, who keep us informed about where the amplify his message across the continent, house nevertheless cut $450million from the all this suggests that neither Vietnamization Senator is and what he has said lately, we so that McGovern may then be satisfac­$2.8 billion Nixon had requested for in­nor Nixon's air power and mines have 
torily and meticulously corrected by the creased military operations. These cuts
might suspect that he had chucked it all and tipped the balance of fighting in favor of gone to Tahiti to paint. This is not a badidea, President's men. included trimming from 252 to 180 the Saigon; indeed, without American planes
Never having campaigned before as

incidentally, if you are reading, Senator number of helicopters to be sent to South and pilots, the Communist spring ·offensive McGovern. Anybody can be President, but President, Nixon has never had such Vietnam--just one day after 70 of those they might well have been a knockout punch. living is a disappearing art. facilities for rebuttal as now await his already have were destroyed or damaged Politically, the new Vietcong peace 
In any case, the question is whether total disposal. When McGovern frets about the at Bienhoa,In the worst aircraft loss of the proposal-"for a provisional government of rebuttal may be self-defeating. For In­war budget, Generals and Admirals and war. national concord that shall be dominated by 
stance: Joint Chiefs, a Secretary of Defense, the neither side"--may be pronounced by
Om• l'loqul'nl eomment 
The other day secr:etary of Agriculture Directoor of the Budget Bureau, Ronald American analysts to be the same old stuff ,Butz, was whistled off the bench and onto Ziegler, Righard Kleindienst and Sen. Hugh Those with long memories will recall clad in new rhetoric. On paper, however, it page one to declare that McGovern's Scott are but a handful of the authorities that it was the South Vietnamese army's appears fair enough and is so stated that it 
charges of foul collusion between the ad­who can rebut at the call of a press con­inablility to protect air bases that first my prove hard for Nixon to ignore.ference. brought American air power directly into
ministration and big grain dealers in the 
i\ SJJlt•nrlid irll'a

Russian Wheat Deal had left the dealers a Has McGovern, lost perhaps somewhere the war; in Febuary, 1965 infiltrators blew good bit richer at the expense of farmers in hottest Nevada, made some slighting up a number of American aircraft at Pleiku, This is particularly so since the proposal and taxpayers. comment about litter at the Wahington and President Johnson sent the bombers appears to demand something less than 
A lot of us would probably never have Monument. The President can summon the North in retaliation. More than seven years what Nixon calls "the overthrow of the known that McGovern had said anything chief elevator operator to give statistics on later, the South Vietnamese still can't Saigon Government." It would specifically about the wheat deal, or that there had been bold new initiatives in monument-litter protect their aircraft, which is one eloquent permit participation by members of that government, excluding only President Thieu himself--and the evidence is mounting that this exclusion is a splendid idea.
apple 
Having already wrested from the Senate the right to govern by decree in the fields of security, defense, economy and defense, having intimated and virtually s'il"enced the

MeG's push: a lot of things 
opposition press by Draconian publication rules, having-since the Spring oppensive began--thrown into prison literally thousands of Vietnamese on nothing moreBy R. W. Apple Jr. the schedule dictated by his advisers' and other crowds could no doubt have been 

determination to on news than suspicion, has abolished
<c> 1!!72 New York Times put him local turned out. Thieu now 
popular Democratic election of officials in

shows in at least three cities a day, in part Critics to this sort of thing say that it Des Moines, Iowa ---· As seen from because of their concern aboout raising produces no sense of excitement among the his country's 10,775 hamlets. Washington, Sen. George McGovern's enough money for an effective program of public or among hard-pressed local 
( 'mtl't•ntration of IIOWI'r

presidential campaign is an amalgam of oaid television commercials. organizers and that it gives neither the money problens, organizational confusion. candidate nor his traveling staff a chance to These moves make it clear that as disastrous showings in state and national In five days, McGovern has visited nine get any real feel for local political Americans have been withdrawn l'roro polls and the gloom of party professionalls states, with no more :han four working situations. How much can be learned about Vietnam, while Nixon's commitment to the 
As seen from the perspective of the hours in any of them--Ohio, Washington, Wisconsin in an hour and 50 minutes in Thieu regime has been continued and 
Democratic nominee's campaign plane, Oregon, California, Texas, Illinois, Superior? perhaps solidified, Thieu himself has seized there are a few mildly hopeful signs: Wisconsin, Iowa and new Mexico. On the The Defense of such scheduling, as voiced the opportunity to concentrate all power in reasonably good crowds at many stops tentative schedule for the next three days, by Mankiewicz, is "media impact." his own hands. So much for all the talk by 
during this first week of all-out cam­he has a total of four and one-half hours of Through the use of inconsequential four­the Nixon Administration and its paigning, and excellent ones in Akron and publicappearances listed. minute "exclusive" interviews granted to predecessors about Democracy and self­Seattle; a sense that McGovern, un­He flew to Houston for a one-hour visit to local television reporters in, say, Peoria, determination in South Vetnam. 
discouraged, has found his Primary theme-­the nation a McGovern reaches most of the television To its credit, the Nixon Adiministration Richard Nixon the Fixer, Richard Nixon the He flew to Houston for a one-hour visit to viewers in that area immediately. has protested against attacks by Thieu's Enemy of the Little Man; hints that many of the National Aeronautics and Space Ad­"They're only going to show one event a controlled radio and television network the old-line Democrats nervous about ministration's installation, during which he day on TV . in Los Angeles," said <financed by American money) on George 
McGovern have not yet decided to vote for spoke perhaps 20 sentences to government Mankiewicz, "so why should we do two?" McGovern as a "mad dog" and "mentally the President. officials--and gave the television cameras a Critics say that this is economical of time ill." The question is whether the nation 
Frank Mankiewicz, the campaign's good "visual" backdrop. and money but that it is also contrived and that finances South Vietnam, and national political1 director, thinks He flew to Peroria for a 30-minute con­may wear thin very quickly. They question, guarantees its existence with the most McGovern nas begun to make Nixon th.e versation in the cafeteria of the Caterpillar furthermore, whether the technology of the destructive air assault in history, has the issue again by attacking him on such sub­plant during which he was so hemmed in by jet airplane and the television camera can power left even to stop this presumptious 
jects as thz Watergate break-in, the television cameras that nothing of any real ever accomplish what the interplay between behavior. unemployment problem and taxation. substance was said or learned. voter and candidate can. 
Uay by day nwssagt·

Indeed, McGovern sounds a lot like his old He flew to Superior, Wis., soley to have his Frederick Dutton, the political strategist 
adversary. Sen. Hubert H. Humphrey, in picture taken against a backdrop of grain whose memorandums to McGovern have Sad to say, none of this seems to be costing the aggressive "trust-the-Democrats" eleyators while he read the statement won him modest renown in this campaign, Nixon any votes at home. The American thrust of his rhetoric. It is traditional denouncing the conduct of the ad­was at work on another one this morning. people do not seem to realize that their air 
•

Democratic presidential politics. Yet, the ministration in grain dealings. Its topic: How to get more substance into power is carrying out one of the most whole enterprise seems lacking in sub­And finally, he flew to Iowa for some the campaign and curtail what another aide terrible mass exterminations in historv not stance. farm-belt campaigning, which turned out to . described as "This panicky running around only in the North but in the South Vi,:lnam 
McGovern is running what he has often be a 40-minute visit to a single farm, con-· in search of another television camera that it is supposed to be defending am.: over described as a populist, reformist cam­veniently located near the Des Moines somewhere." which the squalid Thieu has been given such paign. But for most of this week, he has airport. He was in Iowa for all of 150 Next _week, an immediate fillip will be dictatorial sway. seen little of "the people" and, with the minutes, and a third of that was spent provided by three days of campaigning with That is the message George McGovern 
exception of his statement Friday about driving. Sen. Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts. ought to be carrying day by day and state by grain deals, has had very little to say about In 48 hour>, he spoke to only two crowds There will be no temptation to restrict his state to the American people. That is the reform or other maior issues. worthy of the name, one in Dallas and one in schedule to "visual availability." and after theme that brought him the Democratic 
Instead, the McGovern campaign had Rockford, Ill. Both were respectable, if not that, says Dutton, "We have to factor in presidential nomination, and if 1t is not the turned into an airborne media gimmick with overwhelming--perhaps 3,000 people each--more and more solid stuff." true issue of 1972 then there is nc, issue. 



.------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Friday, September 15, 1972

the observer 
Renovations completed 
Senior bar switches labels 
by 'Pete McHugh students, amounted to an excess of the popular rumor, Knute Rockne Observer Starr Reporter five thousand dollars. never called it home. Cooney Officially registered as the summed up the unusual history of 
The members of the Alumni Club Alumni Club at Notre Dame In­the building in these words, "If the will not be grabbing for all the diana, this establishment has been walls could talk, they'd tell a hell of gusto they can this year. This is the gathering spot for seniors and a story."
t just one of the many changes and occasionally an alumnus for the renovations made by the club last past four years. Often referred to
• 
month. as the Senior Bar, the club is the

• 
B1•sides switching beer first of its kind at Notre Dame. It ~ distributors from Schlitz to was created by the Alumni 


' 
l•'alslaff and Pabst, the Association and is governed by the• organization, under manager Alumni Board . 
l• 
.Janws D. Cooney, also installed While only in its fifth year, the new ieP machim•s and coolers. The • building in which it is housed is in har an·a has been tripled from its its fifties. What now is a bar, once l'ight foot lt•ngth of last year and was a convent, a monastery, and a
• holh tlw first and second floors professor's home. It has also been 
have !wen retiled. The the residence of an ROTC captain 

SELF EVALUATION QUIZ
renovations, done solely by and the University Club. Despite 

• 
t 
! • ~ 
k 
t • 

Hundreds of stereo records to choose from. You're sure to find whatever type of 
s music you like in our large selection of Decca. Capitol. $4.98 to RCA. and other top-notch $5.98 
values

brands. Take advantage of 
while they

these fabulous prices. 
last 
Another Hit Record Spectacular 

A FEW OF THESE GREAT ARITISTS ARE LISTED BELOW: LESLEY GORE PERCY FAITH CANDY-SOUNDTRACK--JOHNNY MATHIS 
Featuring THE BYRDS BLOOD, SWEAT & TEARS &STEPPENWOLF 
Columbus 

BOB DYLAN PLUS MANY MANY MORE! 
Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore donation $1.00 MEMBERS FREE 
--sponsored by the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus Check The An swer Most Applicable To You. 
I. Last weekend I a.) got drunk. b.) got stoned.. c.) "deviated" in general. d.) saw Little Big Man at the Knights of Columbus. 
2. The Last time I did anything worthwhile was when I a.) kissed my mother goodbye. b.) woke up by roommate for class (10 minutes late, of course.) c.) "streaked" the North Quad. 
d. l helped with one of the Knights of Columbus' charitable works (tutoring--drug abuse-­anti-abortion) . 
3. The Last time that I played pool or watched color TV was a.) 2 weeks ago, when my father paid for it. 
b. 
l last night, at the rate of $.01 a minute. 

c. 
l never, because I hate pool and television. d.) at the Notre Dame Knights of Columbus. 


4. The Last time I had a good steak dinner was a.) twoweeksago, my lastnightathome. b.) last weekend at the Wooden Keg for $6.00. c.) never, I'm a vegetarian. d.) at the Knights of Columbus monthly steak dinner. 
WE THINK THAT YOUR ANSWER SHOULD BE"D" TO ALL THESE QUESTIONS. IF IT ISN'T, AND YOU WOULD LIKE IT TO BE, JOIN THE NOTRE DAME KNIGHTS OF 
COLUMBUS THIS SUNDAY AT 2:00 P.M. For more information call 7018. 
Who is Harry Kclle1111an and why is he s.wing those terrible things about me? 
Friday -September 15 

Showin~s -7: 00, 9: 00 and 11:00 
Saturday-
September 16 
Showin~s -2: 00, 7: 00, 9 : 00 and 11 : 00 
AT 
Notre Dame Kni2hts of 

PEOPLE AND SONG 
Present 
Butch Ward Chris Marvt Rick Walters Jim Gresser Jim Fernzen Chuck Beck 
Alumni Hall lounge Tonight 9-2 Admission 25 cents Refreshments 
the observer 1 1 

Friday, September 15, 1972 
Regina Hall to be revamped 
SMC gets student center 



St. Mary's will have a student center of its own located in Regina Hall within a month, according to student government sources. 
Regina was chosen by the Committee of Social and Recreational Expansion headed by Dr. Mary Alice Cannon, Vice­President of Student Affairs, because of its extensive size, ease of adaptibility and already present equipment. The committee was appropriated $25,000 by the board of Regents for the new complex and expects its completion by October. 
The new center will provide ample spacing for authorized college organizations, and student recreation. 
Student Government and 
Campus Ministry have already 
moved into their new offices on 
First Floor North, with Student 
Publications Chimes, the literary 
magazine and Blue Mantle, the 
yearbook soon to follow. 
First Floor South basically 
functions as a coeducational en­
tertainment area, featuring ten 
small parlors offering a more 
personal atmosphere for dates, 
and an anteroom and kitchenette 
for group dining within the college. 
The north wing of the basement 
offers total recreational equip­
ment, housing two completely 
furnished dining rooms and kit­
chenettes, a small room for 
checkers and cards, an area for 
roller skating, ping-pong and 
billiard tables, a craft room, a 
concession area, and a small 
auditorium for movies and student 
productions. 
The south wing of the basement 
is the only area in the student 
center restricted to women only. It 
has its own kitchenette, lounges, 
and exercise room. 
It produces 33 watts RMS per channel, across the entire musical range, at less than 1 % total distortion (RMS 1s the most demanding and least flashy of the various power­rating systems.) The tuner ­sections will separate weaker stations on a crowded dial from their brawnier neigh­boring stations and receive them with an amazing full­ness and clarity. 
To match the qualitv and reliability that the Scott and the Advents represent, we recommend the Garrard SL55B with a Shure H93E cartridge. The SL55B nas a heavy platter, a synchronous motor, a convenient cueing control and comes with a dustcover and base. 
Come to RMS Audio this week. You'll be sur­prised how much quality sound your Three hundred and 
Seventy five dollars can buy. :121 So. Main Next to Indiana Bell 1-8 Mon-Thurs 1-5 Fri and Sun Closed Sat 288-1681 


IGNORANCE is bliss write for the 
SCIENCE QUARTERLY 
and be miserable 
writers, reporters, artists Old and New Members Meeting Tuesday, Sept. 19, 1972 at 7:30p.m. 118 Nieuwland Science Hall 

The best "stereo value" 
in town: 
Individually, each of the components pictured above has created a new standard of sound-per-dollar stereo value. Together, these components will provide you with more quality sound and reliability than you could have bought a year ago for over five hun­dred dollars. 
The Smaller Advent Loudspeakers are the only ~>peakers costing less than the now-famous original Advent Loudspeakers which can reproduce the entire musical range. Most inex­pensive speakers cannot produce the lowest octaves of music: the lowest strings of a double bass or electric bass guitar, the lowest pipes of a pipe organ. The Smaller Advent can 
The Scott 357 AM/FM stereo receiver has enough power to satisfy both and the Advents. 
StudentGovernment Announces First annual 




FALL ELECTION EXTRAVAGANZA 
Be the first in your section to: 
make new friends meet an acting vice-pres. feel important 
6 CHANCES TO WIN 
A PLACE ON THE SLC
How to Enter: clip off proof of purchase seal on a nickel bag of Wheaties, fill out name and turn into Stud•ent Government office on or before Sept. 15 Candidates with petitions need not apply. A 3x5 card may be submitted in lieu of Wheaties seal. 
One winner will be selected by ballot from each of the following districts on Wed. Sept. 20 
District 1 -Off-Campus  District 4  -Keenan, Stanford, Zahm,  
District 2  -Farley, Bp.B., Cavanaugh, St. Ed's  Moreau, Holy Cross  
District 3  -Grace and Flenner  Dristrict 5  - Sorin, Walsh, Badin, Alumni, Dillon  

District 6 -Fisher, Pangborn, Morrissey, Lyons, Howard 
...... 


------~-----­
Friday, September 15, 1972

the observer
12 


Cheerleaders need money. not publicity 
by Beth Wille Observer Staff Reporter 
For a cheering squad that won first place in the nation last year from the National Cheering Foundation, Notre Dame's cheerleaders are receiving practically no help from the University. 
"We gave this school a lot of recognition and publicity and the only financial assistance that we're receiving is $265 for our uniform cleaning," Squad Captain Joe Cowin related. 
Last year the members had to pay for all their travelling ex­penses, equipment and one half the cost of the uniforms. This year instead of improving the situationhas gotten worse. Revenue for some expenses was raised last year by selling "rumper stickers" for fifty cents. This year the bookstore has started selling "cheap imitations" of the squads only income for fifteen cents. Also, the squad must pay the entire cost of their uniforms this year. 
I 
The main problem lies in the fact that the cheerers come under the Department of Student Affairs which allots the majority of its money to the band. Dr. Robert 
t 
Ackerman told the members that no money was allotted for them in the present budget. 
For the job they do the squad feels that the Athletic Department should help them out. Joe Cowin and junior member Bob Bekendorf went to see Moose Krause, head of the Department, and were told only that the matter would be looked into. 
Last year, with their number one rating, the squad did receive $3,000 with which they reimbursed themselves for all their expenses and bought needed equipment. But they realize that they can't count on the average $250 a piece for travelling expenses. 
Noon bomb threat 
proves false 
bv Tom Drape An alleged "bomb threat" was ma~e by phone Wednesday noon agamst St. Joe's and Pangborn
Hall . .t<..:xcept for Pangborn, where the word was leaked, the residents were uninformed. At Pangborn, Peers reported, the maids and janitors were sent home. Security men remained until after 1 p.m. without detecting any bombs. 
6 DAYS ONLY 3 SHOWS--2:00,5:15,8:30 
ACADEMV
t 
AWARD 
~~~~t~~ 
•,.,.., Best Costume Design 
ASAM SPifGll 
fiWIKliNJ. 
SCHAffNER PIIOilUCTlON 
Nicholas
....
........... 

~IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiRUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~ 
~  § 
5  ~  
§  § 
=  =  
i  ~  
§  §  


Captains

I 
Ch~r ! 
§ Reg. 25.35 § § 
sa\e § 
E ~ 
= = 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 

= 4 = 
= = 
I 

I ~ 
I SAT. 'TILL 4:00 JUST NORTH OF CAMPUS 272-6500 ~ 
~llllllllllllllllllllllll.IIIIIIII...IIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIUMI..IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII?r 

~-------------------------------, 

the observer 13 

Ecumenical Institute dedicatio-n set 
Jerusalem, Israel--On a hill halfway between this city, sacred to the world's three mono theistic religions, and Bethlehem --where the founder of one of those religions was born, Notre Dame will dedicate this 
month  a  landmark  in  Christian  
ecumenism.  
The  Holy  Land  hill  is  called  

Tantur, and the landmark, fashioned from native stone and blending into its olive tree-lined and rock-strewn surroundings, is the University's Ecumenical In­stitute for Advanced Theological Study. 
The formal dedication is actually a year late (the Institute has already completed its first academic term), but there was no time for opening cerefllonies last November when the first of 18 scholars moved into the not-quite­finished complex. Belated though they may be, inaugural events will last four days, starting September 24, and include a religious service, a reception and open house and an academic symposium on the topic of "Salvation in Christ--the Problem and the Promise." 
SJmbol of Hl'conciliation 
The idea for the Institute came out of a precedent-shattering meeting between Pope Paul VI and the late Orthodox Patriarch Athenagoras in the course of the Holy Father's pilgrimage to the Holy Land in 1964. To com­memorate this meeting--a vivid symbol of reconciliation among Christians--the Pope asked Notre Dame's president, Rev. Theodore 
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., then serving as head of the International Federation of Catholic Univer­sities, to organize under the Federation's aegis an ecumenical institute in Jerusalem. (Ad­ministration of the Institute was subsequently transferred to Notre Dame.) 
Thus it was in November of 1965 that a group of Roman Catholic, Protestant, Orthodox and Anglican theologians gathered at the Rockefeller Foundation's con­ference center at Bellagio, Italy, and formed an Academic Council to plan the institute. Deliberately, there were only nine Roman Catholics among the 29 scholars on the Council. 
!'l;ucJpus of fivl' or six 
The task of raising the money for the Institute's building was left to Father Hesburgh, and he in­terested I. A. O'Shaughnessy, a St. Paul, Minn., Notre Dame trustee and benefactor, in underwriting construction. 
Notre Dame's president then turned his energies to raising money for an endowment ot pay the ongoing costs of the Institute, from honorariums for its fellows to acquisitions for its library. Con­struction of the Institute began in early 1968 under the direction of Frank Montana of the . . Depart­ment of Architecture at Notre Dame. Notre Dame's executive vice president and treasurer, Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., handled the financial aspects of con­struction. 
Meanwhile, planning went ahead on the academic organization. The Academic Council envisioned a nucleus of five or six resident scholars invited to make the In­stitute their home for a period of two or three years. Added to that were to be from eight to ten senior scholars who would come for a period of eight months, and perhaps as many as 20 junior scholars who would visit for shorter periods, perhaps to finish dissertation work or to carry on postdoctoral research. 
Colloquia and Seminars 
Meals and worship would be in common, and the academic dialogue would be carried forward in colloquia, informal con­versation, seminars, and invited lectures, all organized around a theme, which initially would be the Christian understanding of salvation...An annual report was to be published in order to cir­culate essays produced at the Institute and to keep scholars abreast of the work being done at Tantur. The scholars selected were to be first-rate, and their research on the cutting edge of theological investigation. One Methodist Church official saw the Institute as a kind of super think­tank. "It may well be other theological centers will feed their knottiest problems to Jerusalem." 
The first occupants of the nev• 
LAST NIGHT ACADEMY AWARD WINNER 
for times and directions Phone: 288-8488 







GRADUATE 
STARRING 
ANNE BANCROFT DUSTIN HOFFMAN 
TECHNICOLOR PANAVISION 
AN EMBASSY PICTURES RELEASE 
coming: FRENZY 

building at .Tantur were six library work and hospitality. The Spanish Benedictine monks from first group of fellows included Rev. Montserrat, who form the nucleus Charles E. Sheedy, Notre Dame's of what is hoped will be a cross-theology dean, who served as a confessional permanent staff for vice-rector..: 
FOREIGN CAR PARTS 
f~l ~) 
Regional Distributor 

-Lucas and Carello Drivin~ and Fo~ lamps -Amco accessories -Pacer Hi~h Performance custom equipment VW parts 
215 Dixieway North 272-7187 
('~Block north of Pendle Street on U.S. 31) INQUIHE ABOUT DISCOUNT TO ND STUDENTS AND FACULTY MEMBERS. 

Cultural Arts Commission 
presents 
I{en Russel's 


Wonten 
•




In LOve 
September 16 & 17 8 & 10 p.m. Engineering Auditorium Admission $1.00 

Sophmore Literary Festival 
Positions are now open for Committee Chairmen and Staff of the Sophmore Literary Festival Council. Any Notre Dame or St. Mary's Sophmores interested in helpin~ should pick up an application form by Friday, Sept. 15th ----in 317 Morrissey or 414 Keenan. Phone: 3578 or 3372 
LET'S GET PERSONAL ABOUT 
IT! 


1
• 
l ~ 

WE'LL PRINT ANYTHING-
Personalized 


SHIRTS CUSTOM 
WHITE T-SHIRTS -COLOR TRIM T-SHIRTS-HEATHER T-SHIRTS -COLORED T­SHIRTS-FOOTBALL JER­SEYS-TANK TOPS ... 
OVER 70 
NOVELTY 
DESIGNS 
SPECIAL DISCOUNTS TO ORGANIZATIONS FOR GROUP SALES 




Friday, September 15, 1972

14 the observer 
'We have something to prove' --Dampeer 




The Football Season Is About 
To Kickoff Make Sure You're On \ 

The Receiving End "-:
•
of 



IRISH SPORTS WEEKLY 

by Vic Dorr 
Every so often, Notre Dame's 
football program recruits a first 
class ball-player who also rates as 
a first-class "steal'.' .Johnny 
Lujack was one. So was Paul 
Hornung. And so is John Dam­
peer. 
Dampeer, NO's 1972 offensive 
co-captain, is a native of Kermit, 
Texas. and he came to South Bend 
from Longhorn Country largely 
through the efforts of an NO 
alumnus who saw him play in a 
high school game. 
"I was lucky enough to play on a 
good high school team," said the 6­
3, 237 pound senior, "and a Notre 
Dame alumnus saw me on a day 
when I had a good game. He wrote 
to the university, and pretty soon 
they got in touch with me. 
"I was excited when they con­
tacted me. but it was when I visited 
the campus --I spent a weekend 
here, living in the dorms, and all-it 
was then that I decided. I was 
most impressed by the people who 
make up Notre Dame, and that's 
the point I try to makewhenevcrl 
talk about the place to someone 
else. Of course, you can't play 
down the academic or athletic 
excellence here, either." 
Dampeer has won Two monograms for his work as an offensive tackle, and he was a member of 1970's high-scoring Cotton Bowl Champions, as well as of last year's ball control, defense­minded team. And he has little doubt that this coming season will see a return to the explosive brand of football that Irish fans have <'Orne to expect. 
I can speak for the offense," he said, " and I'm personally very optimistic about the season. But what's optimism up here? We were 8-2last year, and people were on our backs all season long. 8-2 is not a bad record--but I am ex­
pecting more this season. We'll 
JUST 15c PER ISSUE! 
or by Subscription: 
1 semester -$1.50 on campus/ $3.00 by mail 1 year -$2.75 on campus/ $6.00 by mail Delivered to your door 
have a better offense than we did last year--we'll score more, and we'll be more exciting. 
"We'll have some new personnel in some key positions," he con-
Only Miami grid tix left 
Notre Dame ticket director Don . Bouffard has announced that three 
1972 home football games with 
Purdue. Missouri and Texas 
Christian are already sold out. 
The Irish open the home cam­paign against Purdue, September :10 while Missouri invades October 21 and Texas Christian, October 2H. The few remaining tickets for home games with Pittsburgh and Miami went on sale August 1st. 
Tickets are still available for 
road games against Northwestern, 
Michigan State, Air Force. Navy 
and Southern California. 
Krause f!iven NCAA post 
Notre Dame Athletic Director l<:dward (Moose) Krause has been elected to the executive committee of thP National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics. 
Krause, starting his 23rd year as the Irish athletic director, will serve as the university division representative for District Four. The appointment will continue through the next four years. Krause replaces Bill Rohr of Ohio University. 
Other university division representatives include Seaver Peters, Dartmouth: J. 0. Cop­pedge, Navy: Bob Woodruff, Tennessee: Ernie Barrett, Kansas State: Rix Yard, Tulane; Pete McDavid, New Mexico and Jim tinued, "and we have a lot of old guys with experience, too. Our offense will be a combination of the two." 

The Irish offense will be in an unusual position this season. In a 
traditionally defense-oriented program, the Irish attack will be the unit that is stressed this year. And Dampeer--as offensive co­captain and as a two-year veteran­-is in the best position to appreciate the emphasis that is being given the offensive platoon. 
"Last year," he said, "we had a good football team, but we knew from the start what kind of season it was going to be. The defense had the experience then, and we knew that we were going to rely on them and on our kicking game. 
"It may have been different from what the fans wanted, but what else could we do? Would it have been better for us to lose 33-28 than win 14-2? 
"Now this year, the offense has the experience, and more of the pressure will be on us." 
And Dampeer is quite confident that the offensive platoon will be equal to that pressure. "We've been coming along well so far, and our young kids are beginning to get the concepts of the offense. We haven't regressed at all from our showing in the spring game (in which the number one offense scored more than 50 points). 
"What we did in the spring game didn't surprise me that much, either. We knew that we had a real fine offense, and we knew all we had to do to have a good game was to eliminate mistakes and develop some consistency." 
But still there is some question as to who will actually be at the controls of the offense when the Irish open next Saturday against 

Weekly features include: 
* * *Reports of all Irish varsityand club sports* * *Stories about current Irish 
stars and alumni greats ***Columns by top athletes in 
each of the major sports * * *Quizzes, contests* * *Extensive Interhall coverag 
Northwestern. Cliff Brown and Tom Clements have been battling for the number one role since spring, but the Irish coaches have yet to name a starter. 
"I can't say anything either," said Dam peer, "but I can tell you this. I think it's a good thing that we have so much competition at quarterback. It gives us more depth. Cliff (Brown) has the ex­perience--he started six games for us last season--but Tom (Clements) is a good solid player, too." 
As tne offensive captain, Dampeer shares responsibility for team morale with his defensive 
counterpart --tackle Greg Marx. And Dampeer is just as optimistic about his team's morale as he is about NO's chances once the season is underway. 
"It's good,:' he said. "Better than last year. There's been definite improvement--and I don't quite know why." 
"But probably," he continued, "it's because we aren't feeling the pressure of being picked number one before the season even starts. 
"We'll be looser out there, be more at we'll ha to 

First issue available Septe~nber 21 
Published by The Observer 


ND defense needs improvement 
by Jim Donaldson Sports Editor 
During his nine years at Notre Dame, Ara Parseghian has figured out how to beat Texas, Purdue, Michigan State, and Southern Cal, but there's one opponent that continues to frustrate him -the weatherman. 
Wednesday's inclement con­ditions resulted in a decision by the Irish coach to forego the usual mid­week, game-type scrimmage and conduct a split-squad, hour-long workout. 
Still the Irish managed to get in plenty of work as the number one and two offensive units ran plays against the third and fourth defensive teams in one half of the field while the third and fourth offensive clubs tested the first and second defensive units on the other side of the 50. 
"In view of the weather, this sort of workout was a way of achieving more than we could have done otherwise," Parseghian explained. 
"We didn't want to tear up the wet 
turf in the Stadium and, by 
practicing out here <Cartier 
Field), we were able to review• 
some fundamentals and still get in 
an hour's scrimmage." 
Parseghian devoted almost all of 
his attention during the scrim­
mage to his top defensive units and 
wasn't happy with their per­
formance. 
"The defense is playing with 
nowhere near the consistency I'd 
like,"Parseghian said. "We've got 
a lot of young people and they need 
a lot of work. Being young, they 
have a tendency to make mistakes 
and, on defense, one mistake can 
mean continuous possession for the 
opposition. We've got to work on 
reducing our defensive errors." 
Commenting on the progress of the players at some of the various defensive positions, Parseghian said, "The tackles are progressing, the ends are in­consistent and the linebackers have been hard hit." 
At the start of practice this fall, Notre Dame's linebacking corps appeared to possess both depth and talent, if not an abundance of game experience. But the suspension of seniors Jim Musuraca, a regular last season, and Pat McGraw, and knee injuries to Tom Devine and Mike Webb that will likely require corrective surgery, have depleted the Irish at that key position. 
Asked about the status of Musuraca and McGraw, Par­seghian remarked that, "Right now, the situation doesn't look bright". 
Jim O'Malley, who started a year ago, junior Gary Potempa
and sophomores Drew Mahalic and Sherm Smith were working as linebackers with the first unit Wednesday. 
Things weren't so gloomy on the southern half of the field, where the top two offensive units were consistently moving the ball into the end zone against the outclassed defensive reserves. 
"We could have almost passed at will," said offensive backfield coach Tom Pagna, who directed the offensive part of the workout, 'Instead, we used the time to work on and polish up our running plays. 
It was very crisp at first before it leveled out." 
Overall, Parseghian was satisfied with the workout, saying afterwards, "We accomplished a good deal. We had 44 people working full time and we got a good chance to look at both the defense and offense." 
Jim Donaldson =:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:===========:=========:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=::::::::::::::::::::::::::=======::::::::•. 
The Irish Eye 
As anyone who's spent more than a casual afternoon at the racetrack could attest, it's darn tough to pick winners without the past performance charts. You can estimate horse's potential by its class and recent workouts but you can't be sure of anything until it's displayed its form in competition. . 
The same goes with college football. A club may look great m the press guide but just hasn't got it on the field. Predicting the outcome of colleg~ games is no easy business even in mid-season, when a team's capabilities can be fairly well estimated. In the first couple of the weeks of the year, the coin flip sometimes seems like the most reliable method of selection. 
Still, only four of last week's 15 prediction went awry and in those four games the total point spread was only seven points. There weren't many people who tabbed UCLA to knock off Nebraska and there was some satisfaction in predicting the end of Toledo's 35-game winning streak last weekend. 
This weekend marks the first game of the season for most of the nation's colleges that didn't start last Saturday, with the exception of many of the Eastern schools and notables like Notre Dame and Texas. 
With another abundance of opening games slated, it'll again be a tough week for picks. Nevertheless, here's the way the Irish Eye s~s the outcome of this week's top collegiate encounters: 
Boston College over Tulane --Boston's ravilng over the Red Sox but coach Joe Yukica's Eagles may divert Beantown's interest to football tonight. · 
Georgia Tech over South Carolina --Look for Tech to play two halfs of good. football this weekend. Nebraska over Texas A & M ---The Cornhuskers, lose two in a row? No way. Michigan over Northwestern ---Michigan will face some tough battles in defense of its Big Ten title, but this doesn't figure to be one of them. Arizona State over Houston ---The Sun Devils should come up with most of the points in this meeting of potent offenses. • Air Force over Wyoming ---The Falcons will get off to a flying start in 
'72. 
Ohio State over Iowa ---The Buckeyes seldom lose in Columbus. 
UCLA over Pitt---Any team that can beat Nebraska isn't going to lose 
to Pittsburgh. . Penn State over Tennessee--Georgia Tech gave the Vols a v1ctory last Saturday. The Nittany Lions won't be so generous. . . . Navy over William and Mary --At least Navy wlil wm one game thts 
season. 
Purdue over Bowling Green --The Boilermakers open with a Iaugher. 
Michigan State over Illionois --A big game for both clubs, but this year State's Duffy Daugherty, always optimistic, has real reason to ~e. . 
West Virginia over Richmond-The Mountaineers ought to piCk up wm 
number two. 
washington over Duke -Sonny Sixkiller and his gang were almost 
ambushed last weekend. They'll be ready tomorrow. 
Upset of the Week: 
Miami (Fla.) over Florida State-Fran Curci has built himself a good 
ball club at his alma mater. Good enough to beat the 16th ranked 
Seminoles. 
Friday, September 15, 1972 rne·observer 

Bill Etter. back for another season of Irish football, quarterbacked the number two offense on \\iednesday. 
New turf due on practice field 
The University has installed contributions from season ticket AstroTurf, manufactured by theartificial turf on one of its practice holders and proceeds from 
Monsanto Company. was installed

fields. professional football preseason in early September on one of
Athletic Director Edward W. 

games in Notre Dame Stadium. Cartier Field's practice gridirons. 
Krause said the cost of the in­The same fund has paid for sub­Notre Dame Stadium will remain a stallation was underwritten by a stantial Stadium renovation in natural grass football field; itfund earmarked for major athletic 


recent years.
improvements and supported by 




OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
PomariCo keeps the 'TrU~ Faith'' 
By "Lefty" Ruschmann It has been almost required 
prodedure for sportswriters to compare Frank Pomarico with his noted predecessor on the Irish 
forward wall, Larry DiNardo. Both attended St. Francis Prep of Brooklyn, played left guard, wore number 56, and--well, you get the idea. Yet beneath the litany of comparisons is the individual character of Frank Pomarico, perhaps best expressed by the sign on his door, "Keeper of the True Faith." Pomarico, when asked once again about the comparisons to DiNardo, replied, "I admire and respect Larry, not as a ballplayer so much as a great all-around person. People often come to me and say that I play like Larry, but any resemblance between our playing styles is coincidental. My style is all my own."His style impressed the nation's football writers enough to earn him a spot on the All-American pre-season team. Although "thrilled" by his selection, Frank nevertheless added a word of caution, "The guy playing acros& the line from me won't be psyched up because I'm an All-American. I've got to be good on my owr. in order to make the post-season team, where it counts." Hard work, and plenty of it, is Frank's prescription for good play. "If I give 100 percent for the entire game, the worst that can happen is a stalemate on the line. It's when someone doesn't go all out that he gets in trouble with his man." Frank, a returning letterman, will be joined on the Notre Dame line by an experienced crew, a fact which gives him encouragement. "We know each others' moves through practice. There is no need to communicate to each other what we're trying to do."The result, in Pomarico's opinion, will make possible a more "balanced" attack this season. 

Acting as Keeper of the True Faith, Frank replied to those who are skeptical about the prospects of the Irish, predicting, "I per­sonally think we're going to sur­prise a lot of people. It'll take time and hard work and the offense will have to carry the team while the defense matures, but we're playing together as a team this year." 
Pomarico cites academics as the chief factor in his decision to come here, although he, as a New Yorker in contact with the famed "subway alumni," indulged a lifelong desire to attend Notre Dame. He may yet help spread the Irish legend in his community of Howard Beach, N.Y. "Since Larry and I, and a couple of other St. Fr:ancis graduates (Gerry DiNardo and John O'Donnell) played football at Notre Dame, the cannot be used as a practice facility because it is not lighted. 
The need for an all-weather practice facility was highlighted by two recent developments, ac­cording to Krause. A change in Notre Dame's academic calendar has forced earlier spring prac­tices, and the University's open­ness to bowl invitations presents the annual possibliity of mid­December practice sessions. Krause also said the Notre Dame football team finds itself playing on artificial surfaces in more and more opponents' stadiums. 
presents 

"ANATOMY OF A MURDER" 
Friday and Saturday, Sept 15th and 16th at 7:00 and 9:00 
Come to "AMERICA" in the basement at Flenner 
Admission $1.00 

j 
• l
15 

~ 
~ ~ 
<II 
~ ~ 
l ~ 
I 
j 
l 
people around Howard Beach 
have begun to foll_ow the team." .. Pomarico loves the game of football, a feeling which, ironically, causes him to hesitate about entering pro ball. "How solid is the pro game? It's not played for fun, it's just a job." Frank lists his main goals as graduating and getting a decent job, saying "the guys who think only of pro careers are foolish. Who knows, an injury can end their careers." But Frank admits that he would like a shot at pro ball, mainly to prove something to himself. "I sort of owe it to myself to give it a try." When Frank draws Jim An­derson as his first assignment against Northwestern, both he and the subway alumni of Howard Beach, N.Y. should see what hard work and· True Faith can do. 
ZAGRAN'S ZINEMA WEST 



..---------------~--------~----------­
• 
16 the observer Friday, September 15, 1972 
The Observer is published dally 
be purchased for $II .trom The
during the college se!llester except 
Observer, Box Q, Notre t1ame, Ind.

Press funding easier at big U's 
vacations by the students of the 
465S6. Second class postage paid, 

(continued from page 5) 
earlier this year, Ms. Emily Schossberger, recently retired University Press director, stated, "<U of M) requires the press to recover the salaries and selling costs from sales. Warehouse facilities as well as a beautiful new building, shared only with the course bulletin editors, is free, too." 
At other state schools, funding is equally more easy to obtain. At Nebraska, $80,000 of the payroll for the press is paid by the State. Offices, storage facilities and telephone services are also free. Wisconsin similarly pays its Press employees as civil servants working for the State. 
However, Notre Dame's budget is not as vast as those of bigger or 
Arnold Air Society holds open house 
In recognition of the 25th An­niversary of the United States Air Force, the Arnold Air Society will host an open house at the ROTC building on the campus of Notre Dame on Friday, September 15, from 2:00 to 4:30p.m. 
To help stimulate an interest in aviation and to the Air Force ROTC program, the open house will feature an exhibit covering the span of aviation from the begin­ning to the present space achievements. The exhibit, which is the personal collection of Robert Jaques, a student at IUSB, features old photographs, and original autographs of the aviators who actually made aviation what it is today. 
Letters by men like Ricken­backer and Doolittle will be seen, as will old air mail covers signed by a via tors like Sikorsky, Lind­bergh, and Byrd. Also on exhibit will be a complete collection of autographs of the Astronauts of the Apollo program, and the upcoming Skylab program. 
Another item rarely seen will be a set of colored photos per­sonally autographed by the Russian Cosmonauts. All students and members of the Faculty are invited to attend 
Your store 
the original 
state-funded universities. Reportedly the University can only fund the Press annually with 
Student outlooks on SLC pessimistic 
(continued from page 2) 
speculated that parietals might reappear on the agenda. "The students go t beat on that issue last year," he said. Etienne agrees with the suggestion that raising the issue is "like beating dead hor­ses" since most sut<tents ignore parietals anyway. 
However, "there's always some bastard that'll try to enforce them, Burtchaell tried to do it in Dillon last year, and then there is always one or two R.A. 's that try;" Etienne added. 
The Indiana state law con­cerning drinking could become an issue according to Etienne, but not Kezele. Etienne feels the age will be lowered to 18, which would require changes in the student manual. 
Kezele feels that its passge is contingent upon the election of a Democratic governor, and that the law would not be changed until next year. He said it seems to be Republican policy to veto any such change, and the present Governor is Republican. 
Monday: The faculty outlook. 





DOUBLEKNIT FLARES 
$14 

In a handsome diagonal weave Fortrel polyester that resitsts wrinlldes and gives with your novements for complete comfort, In solid shades. 

$50,000. It does not presently have the funds available to support the Press, if the printing operation keeps losing $112,277.71 per an­num. 
TUESDAY: "Will the University Press survive?? It also depends on your priorities. Do you want exotic courses or a Univer­sity Press?" 
---Rev. Paul Beichner, Press editorial board member. 
Voter registration 
(continued from page 61 
At St. Mary's, the trigger to the school's involvement in voting registration was also the McGovern camp. Ms. Mullaney said that the college received a letter from McGovern coor­dinators in mid-summer asking about student registration. This spurred the college to send out materials to each of 1500 students on how to register to vote and a sheet with the deadlines for registration and absentee ballot filing for each state. 
University of Notre Dame and St. 
Notre Dame, Ind. 46556 ' 
Mary's College. Subscriptions may 
Main Church 
Sunday Masses 
5:15 p.m. Sat.  Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C.  
9:30 a.m. Sun.  Fr. Eugene Montoya  
10:45 a.m.  Sun.  Fr. Tim Shaughnessy  
12: 15 p.m. Sun.  Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C.  

"Evening Prayers" vespers at 4:30 p.m. Sunday 


CLASSIFIED ADS 

Observer ads pay off 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: keyring plus 4 keys at Celtic Society Booth on Activities night. Call E. McCarthy 7069. 
Lost: black leather handbag on September 5 on NO campus. Contact S. Fitzmyer; 4381. Reward. 
Lost: Blue wallet 9 9-72 contains tickets, 1D. Can't alford the loss!! 
Please call l<.athi 4342.
The First Meeting of the 

Lost: Black wallet with ID's, tickets, etc. Please call Dick at For the '7273 year will be held in Jjloom 127 of Nieuwland 
GRADUATE STUDENT COUNCIL 
288 1121. Reward! 
Science Ha II at 12 Noon on Friday Sept. 22, 1972 
PERSONALS 
All GSU delegates should attend. 
Dear Mom lrom Canton, HAPPY BIRTHDAY!

The following departments have not notified the 
Love RoryElections and Credentials Committee of their new delegates Hi Artie! Hi Rich!
and should do so immediately: 

Jackie says "Conredge Who?" -Aero-Mechanical Engineering 
Go Penn State BC'at the Vols
-American Studies -Environic Design 
FOR RENT

-History and Philosophy of Science Medieval Studies 
Furnished House 4 bedrooms, -Metallurgical Engineering 
tub & shower, 4, 5, or 6 men. $45 per month. 1315 Lincoln Way
-Microbiology 
West 233 5282.
Modern and Classical Languages 

Rooms for rent. Cheap. 233-1329 Please Contact Mark RutKas (Eron). at 272-8189 FOR SALE
or the GSU Office 431 Administration Bldg. 
For Sale: Martin D 12 20 guitar. Call Tom, 233 7931. 
• 
For Sale: Couches $10 30. Chairs $3 7.50. Call Mrs. Cooper 272 3004. Free delivery to campus. Open 

1n style, price & terms 
Sunday. 
STEREO: Powerful tuner-cassette amp. Record directly from AM, FM, BSR Turntable (incl.) Headphones with ex­
tension. Call 1477.

EVERYTHING'S 
Panasonic AM·FM stereo Radio­Cassette deck. Input for turn­

NEW 
table. Walnut cabinet and speakers. $100. Smith-Corona manual typewriter, deluxe model. $50 (originally $125.) VIVITAR 28mm F2.5 wide angle lens with 
Nikon mount, $40. 233-3581.

(but the personnel) 
2 beds mattress, box springs, head boards. $25 each or best We think this is going to be our 
offer. Call 272-2977. best year ever... one look will 
For Sale: damaged H.D. super­

convince you that this is truly 
. glide, mini 1970 TRIUMPH 500, your store ... we have the apparel 
set wilson staff clubs; call 233-4024 you want at the prices you want 
after 5 p.m. 

to pay; all of our merchandise is Sports car at economy car prices-
new (but you'll see the old 
1971 Fiat 850 racer, vinyl hardtop,

familiar races ready to serve 
35 M.P.G. excellent condition.
you.) 
232-8830. 
For Sale: Typewriters your choice $25. 7735, Brother Clarence. 
Have 4 tickets for Purdue game. 
Talk price. Dan -1591. 
For Sale: Norelco cassettes CHEAP. Guaranteed for life

Use the EXCLUSIVE 
Call 1868 -PauL 

Campus Shop Way to Buy 
NOTICE 
Seniors Last chance for Year Book Photo-To-Day-· 9:30-2:00­2C La Fortune Center. Call 7524. 

Walt's Discount, 7381!2 South You wear and enjoy your 
Michigan. Small doors and shelving, good for desk tops. 289­

apparel now, pay one third in 
3380.

January, one third in February, one third in March. No interest or carrying 
Morrissey Loan Fund now open to charges added. 
NO students. Borrow up to $150. 
11:15-12:15 Monday thru Friday. Basement of La Fortune. 
Time-life-Sports Illustrated at Ihe lowest student rates. 283-8323! 
Europe and back for $190! How can you afford to slay home? Call Clark, 283 8810. 
$2.50 per l1our. If you are at least il Junior, l1ave all A's in English, nnd would like to do part time !'diting (less than 10 hours per wC'ek. Submit credentials 
(transcript. experience,  etc. l  &  
phone  number  immediately  to  
P.O. Box 77,  Notre Dame.  

Old and new volunteers for the ND SMC council lor the refatded will meet (Logan Center) Monday Sept. 18th at 7:30pm in Nieuwland Science Hall. Further info call Jack (234 2334. l 
WANTED 
Need Purdue tix. Will pay your price. Call 7819, 7812, or 7471. 
Desperately  need  general  ad  
mission  or  student  tickets  for  
Purdue.  Cnll 6701.  

Nl'ed Purdue tickets. General admission or student. Call Frank 8825 or Eel 8463. 
HPI p' 1 desperatel y need 1 4 gen. ad. fix for Purdue game. Name your price. Call Mike 6984. 
NC'ed tickets for Purdue. Call Walt 6804. 
Needed: female roomate close to campus. $55 mo. 233-8622. 
Need ride to Racine. Wis., Friday Sept. 15 Call Mark 3341. 
Wanted: To buy, borrow, or rent a flexible 35mm single reflex caml'ra. Call John 8578. 
Wanted: Houseparents. A married couple to live in home for qirls. Only requirement is to help predelinquents. A team ap­proach. many supportive people around you. Free foam and board (including dishes, linens, etc.) Plus $100 per month. Weekends off. Vacinity of campus. 233-9491. 
3 off campus students seek 4th llousemate. Private bedroom. 2 blocks past Corby's. Call 23.2-3560, 1029 E. Miner. 
Wanted: FOUR Purdue tix, must be together. Call John 8810. 
Wanted: used lightweight bicycle. Call Marc 8864. 
Want 4 or 6 tickets for either Purdue or MMissouri. Will pay. Call 255 4922 nights. 
Ne11d 4 tickets for Missouri. Call 287-6154 in P.M. 
1 or 2 housemates needed 732 Penna. Ave. Cheap, good ac­comodations with 2 seniors. 2 bedroom, furnished. Call Mark or George at 289-5940. 
Ride needed to Ohio Northern (or vicinity) in Ada Ohio -any weekend; contact Rick by calling 8917. Will pay. 
Need 2-3 gen. admission tix tor purdue. Call 1946. 
NEED 3 or 4 general admission tickets fo either Pittsburgh or Missouri game. Call Pat, 3277. 
Words 1 da 2da 3d a 4da 5di> 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21·25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 










