
~eather: Increasing loudiness, chance of snow High 15, Low 10 (we've run 
out of cliche's) 


Vol. VI No. 73 serving the notre dame -st. mary's community Tuesday, February 8, 1972 

Gaal's removal near? 
By Hob Cosentino, Jerry Lutkus <Observer News Editor), and Ann Therese Darin (Observer Associate Editor) 
Wednesday night may mark the ter­mination of the short reign of John Gaal as St. Mary's student body vice-president. Judicial Board Chairman Sue Welte will present the Board's decision tomorrow night to overide the student assembly's decision to elect Gaal. 
Observer Insight 
"The election is being contested," ex­plained Miss Welte, "because they are at least two distinct· violations in the election procedure of the SMC Procedural Manual." 
Although Gaal was elected to the post by student assembly representatives with a 10 -5 verdict excluding 3 abstentions, Miss Welte contended the election is invalid because Gaal is not a St. Mary's student 
"The manual clearly states that the SBVP must be a St. Mary's student," Miss Welte substantiated. She contends he directly violated election regulations. Gaal has not paid the student government fee. He also did not run for his office in a school-wide election. 
Miss Welte is not alone in her opposition to the seating of Gaal, a sophomore government major from Grace Hall, with no prior campus or high school student government experience. Jean Seymour, delegated by the student assembly to act as chairman for the special election, also believes Gaal's election to be invalid. 
"Personally I think Sue's right," she claimed. "It has to be a St. Mary's student, all right. It could be a boy Possibly. but practically it has to be a girl. 

contest John Gaal's election 
"I feel badiy about John Gaal. He's a 
very nice guy and when he called me on 
Sunday he impressed me with his 
knowledge of the Student Government 
Manual. But we have worked so hard for 
this student manual, that it seems a shame 
to throw it out and to not follow the rules 
that were set up by students themselves 
which we would be doing by validating 
Gaal's election," she claimed. 
In supporting Miss Welte's claims, Miss 
Seymour anticipated trouble getting the 
St. Mary's administration and faculty to 
recognize Gaal as vice-President. 
"Sue's worried that the faculty and 
administration will not recognize him as a 
voting member of the Student Affairs 
Committee and the Student Affairs 
.. Council. Those are two tri-partite 
committees that the SBVP sits on with 
voting privileges. And that was the main 
reason for having this whole election in the first place -we need someone who will be ablle to vote at the meetings of these two committees in the next month," she said. 
Miss Seymour also confirmed late last night that she has been instructed to act as election chairman during the coming student body presidential and vice­presidential campaigns. Normally (ac­cording to the student procedural manual l, the SBVP has served as chair­man of the election committee and organized and tabulated election resuls. 
Somemembers of thestudent assembly, however, reacted in opposition to Miss Welte's proposal. 
Jim Clarke, at-large student assembly representative, claimed that "the assembly should not rescind their decision. I personally objected to it, but since he was voted in, he should stay in." 
Molly Kowalczyk, student assembly secretary, agreed with Clarke. She declared Miss Welte's first point (that a student had to be an SMC student to run for office) technically wasn't right ac­cording to the Governance Manual of the College. 
According to the Governance of the College Manual, Article II, page 1, it says, cited Miss Kowalczyk, "All St. Mary's students are a priori members of the student government body." This does not keep the ND guys out of SMG"' student government, she commented. Look .at the three at-large members on the assembly from Notre Dame. 
Miss Kowalczyk also disagreed with Miss Welte's decision to disqualify Gaal because he does not conform to the article: "Each student will have the responsibility of paying student government fees. 
(Continued on page 2) 
Ulster Catholics plan protest campaign 
by Bernard Weinraub 
<cl 1972 New York Times 
Belfast, Northern Ireland, Feb. 7­Roman Catholic civil rights leaders, buoyed by Sunday's mass peaceful protest in Newry, announced today the start of a campaign of sit-ins, picketing and telephone and postal disruption. 
The civil disobedience campaigmwill start Wednesday, six months after the Northern Ireland government began to intern Catholics without trial in an effort to crush the illegal Irish Republican Army. Roman Catholics view internment as a repressive measure that ignores Protestant terrorists. 
"On Wednesday, roads will be blocked, pickets will be placed at R.U.C. (Royal Ulster Constabulary) stations, there will be a blocking of administrative processes and telephone services will be disrupted," said Kevin McCorry, a key organizer of the Northern Ireand Civil Rights Association. 
"It will be nonviolent peaceful disruption," he said. "This is a completely 
new departure in civil disobedience here. It's never been attempted before on such a massive scale." 
Although Wednesday -which the rights leaders termed "disruption Day" --will include protests in Belfast, Londonderry and other cities, the organizers em­phasized that the disruptions would continue thereafter attempt to focus at­tention of their demands. 
What the young civil rights leaders urge is an end to internment and legislation that would ensure job and housing equality. On a broader scale the Catholics here insist upon the withdraw! of the 15,000 British soldiers in Northern Ireland and the resignation of Prime Minister Brian Faulkner, whose Protestant Unionist Party has dominated the six northern counties for 51 years. 

"We do not accept the administration of Brian Faulkner," McCorry, a former student at TrinityCollege, Dublin, said in the office of the civil rights association in downtown Belfast. "An entire community is alienated from thisgovernmentmd the system that has oppressed them for half a century." 
Civil rights leaders here were angered at Faulkner's remarks Sunday night that the march of 15,000 to 20,000 Roman Catholics was "an exercise in irresponsible brink­manship." 
McCorry said: "What Mr. Faulkner feared was what happened yesterday. People marched peacefully and without incident. Mr. Faulkner was not afraid of the I.R.A. but more afraid that a mass body of people would take to the streets without violence and show the world what they think of his unionist regime." 
McCorry, as well as two dozen other civil rights leaders and political figures here, faced a summons today for breaking the g-overnments ban on marches. They are due to appear in court in Newry, Feb. 16, to answer the charge, which has a maximum sentence of six months. 
Civil rights officials declined to discuss the specific details of Wednesday's disruptions, except to say that telephone services will be jammed and postal ser­vices blocked. They said that milk and bread deliveries would not be affected. 
The outcome of Sunday's march clearly delighted the civil rights officials. 
"The people showed their revulsion at what happened last week in Derry," said Frank Gogarty, vice chairman of the civil rights association. "The policy of going back to the streets must not only continue but escalate." 
Thirteen Catholic men were killed in Londonderry a week ago Sunday when British Paratroopers opened fire on a civil rights demonstration in the bogside district. Catholic spokesmen insisted that the army shooting was unprovoked, but soldiers said that nail bombs had been tossed at them and that snipers had opened bombs. 
Thirteen Catholic men were ktUed in Londonderry a week ago Sunday when British Paratroopers opened fire on a civil rights demonstration in the bogside district. 

THE OBSERVER Tuesday, February 8, 1972
Page 2 
world briefs 
(C) 1972 New York Times 

Washington-H. R. Haldeman, one of President Nixon's chief aides, said in a television interview that opponents of Nixon's latest peace plan were "consciously aiding and abetting the enemy of the United States." The White House said that the comments were Haldeman's own opinion, but reaction from presidential critics was swift and sharp. 
llniterl Nations, N. Y. -United Nations Secretary General Kurt Waldheim offered his services to the British government to helf alleviate the crisis in Northern Ireland. Waldheim said that since the situation was an internal matter, he could not act until he was asked to by the British. 
C'airo -President Anwar El-Sadat returned to Cairo today from a five-day trip that took him to Moscow in quest of more weaponry and then to Yougoslavia, Syria, and Libya for further consultations on the deadlocked conflict with Israel. 
nd-smc 

12: 00---lecture, gregory stone, sport in american society, library auditorium. 7: 00---meeting, mecha-chicanos, urban studies workroom, rickne memorial building. 
7: 00---meeting, frosh council, second floor Iafortune 
8: 
00---lecture, william mcneill, venice and the goegeous east, carroll hall. 

8: 
00---lecture, seymour halleck, death of the new left, library auditorium 

8: 
00---basketball, nd vs. st. john, ace. 



on campus today 
SMC Judicial Board objects to Gaal 
(Continued from page I) 
She also felt that "things should not be dragged out any more than they absolutely have to ... that there should not be a general school-wide election . " 
According to Miss Kowalczyk, the election of Gaal, despite the rule that the SBVP must be elected by a school-wide vote, will catalyze the merger prospects. She stated that most of the constituencies have been polled and that students reported to their assembly representatives that theydid not wish to have an election, when the elections for next year's officers will take place in less than a month. 
Some of the student assembly representatives feel that the power of the decision rests wilh the assembly. Kathy 'Barlow who isthestudent body president, cited the clause in the College 'Governance Manual that the student assembly can settle all questions within the 'jurisdicition of student government. 
Gaal also cited the manual clause saying that "The assembly has full control and the final say." 

Welte, however, claimed that this is not the case. In the opinion of the judicial board, this clause does not infer that they have jurisdiction over this situation. 
Miss Welte said that "the vice­presidential election is spoken to in the procedural manual. It is stated explicitly how to fill the vice-presidential position. The powers of the assembly are too vague, she claimed, they can only be applied to what isn't in the manual. 
The student assembly could chose Wednesday to sustain the Judicial Board.s decision. However, it could also vote to appeal thedecision. If it chooses this route, the case will go before the tri-partite appellate board. 
Gaal was not the only can­didate to file for the position of vice-president. According to Miss Seymour, two other can­didates, Jack Gillis, an ND senior, and Maureen Rogers, sophomore class president, a.lso filed for the post. 
The assembly disqualified Gillis because he was a late applicant. They also disqualified Miss Rogers application con­tending that she was a member of student government and her election would be in violation of the Procedural Manual which says that the nominee cannot already hold a position in student government. 
Gaal expressed surprise that he was in fact elected. "I didn't expect to get it. I really didn't think they'd give it to a guy." 
Furthermore, he cited the SLC's failure to seat Ann Marie Tracey as another reason for his surprise. "They didn't allow girls over here, I didn't think they'd allow a guy to run over there." 
Finally, he thought that "somewhere in the procedural manual there had to be a point about who can run for vice­president." .. Apparently, Miss Welte feels likewise. 
Student Union Academic Commission Presents Dr. Seymour Halleck 
-psychiatrist from U. of Wisconsin speaking on 
"The Death of the New left" Tuesday 8:00· Library Aud. 
Juniors-Sign up now to have your portrait taken for the 1973 yearbook 


2-C LaFortune 9-6:00 daily or call 1454 To be in the book, you must be hoto hed now. 



Tuesday, February 8, 1972 THE OBSERVER~---Page 3 
Blantz quitting to return to History faculty 

by John Powers 
Insight Starr Reporter 
Anyone who happens to loiter around the entrance to the office of the vice-president for student affairs might wonder why people are dashing in and out every few minutes carrying checks and forms. What appears to be a dignified book-making operation is really the center for every organized student activity out­side of academic life. 
This modest office last year 

"I am simply not ready to close th.-door on teaching forever." 
administered a budget of over one million dollars. The heads of the Student Infirmary, the Security Dept., the Campus Ministry, and the Director of Student Residence are super­vised and assisted by the vice­president. Over two hundred hall rectors, assistants, and residents assistants are responsible to him. 
Minority 
The_post is not only full time; it is many hours of overtime as well. Father Tom Blantz, the out­going vice-president, will return to teaching in the history 
department next fall, after nearly a two year absence. 
Why did he resign'? 
"I suppose the shortest answer might be simply that my term of office is completed. When Father Me Carragher resigned from this office in June of 1970, there was really not time for an extended search since a new vice president was needed almost immediately 
Observer Insight 
to continue office preparations for the fall semester, "Blantz saiu. Father Hesburgh and the Board of Trustees asked me to accept the position for two years, and at the end of that time we could decide whether to continue or not. This two-year period seemed suitable since I could take a two year leave of absence from my teaching in the History Department: it would give the University time to look for a more permanent replacement, and so on," he continued. 
I taught History here for only two years (1968-1970) and now have ·been away from it for two years. With scholarship and academic research progressing so fast these days, I am afraid that if I delayed my return to History much longer I would find myself out of touch with present scholarship and very ineffective 
businesses 



offered financial help 
Minority businesses in financial difficulty can receive help from the Graduate Business School and the Law School 
through the Minority EnterpriseSmall Business Investment Corporation <MESBIC). 
One shop taking advantage of the opportunity is the Quan-Tiki and Boutique Shop owned by Eduardo Rueda and located on 208 Front Street in Niles. 
The shop specializes in medium priced men's and women's fashions including jeans, T­shirts, pant suits, dresses and accessories. 
Rueda's two biggest problems are: lack of advertising funds and poor business management. MESBIC has been trying to strengthen the shop's business for over a year. 
The store manager, Mrs. Lock­bridge works part time. Graduate students have taken up the slack by keeping the store's books and taking inventory but the poor business practices of the past have left Quan-Tiki with a $12,000 deficit. 
Rueda is "hopeful that the shop will stay open." He has extended its hours to 5:30 hoping that the increased sales revenue will reduce his store's loss. 
The store is now overstocked. Sale of the extra 1500 records that 
If you can't get yourself a. girl at least get a Louie's Pizza. 

LOUIE'S RESTAURANT 744N.NDAVE SOUTH BEND 
Rueda ordered would allow him to re-order items which have been depleted. 
Improved business methods as a teacher. And after only two years. I am simply not ready to close the door on teaching forever." 

Father Blantz is also serving as University Archivist. In this position. he is charged with the care of one of the best collections of documents on the Catholic Church in America. 
"My main reasons for leaving at the end of this two-year term is simply a desire to return to teaching, which might not be possible if I remained out of touch with it many more years, and secondarily, to return to the 

Archives. -I guess my first love is simply teaching." 
One of the most important changes Blantz made was to create the office of assistant vice­president to supervise student activities. His assitant, Father James Shilts, works with Student Government, Hall Government and student activities like the Dome, the Juggler, the Scholastic I<'arley Hall and teaches a course in the Physics Dept. 
Father Blantz tries to make himself as available as possible. He finds the personal contacts with students a most rewarding aspect of the job, although in many instances students-are referred to particular ad­ministrators unoer his super­vision. 
"I personally do not find budget decisions, personnel matters (hiring and firing), and long meetings particularly attractive. I certainly wish I had more time simply for reading and a lot of the other things I miss doing. On the other side, I would say that contacts with students in the office have been the most satisfying aspects of the position, though it is still unpleasant at times to have to turn down requests, refuse premissions, or simply not be able to agree on specific policies. But in general, the work with students directly has been very interesting and challenging." 


Our representative will be on campus: Tuesday, February 22, 1972 
Please contact the placement office for an appointment. 
98op1e build a b ~t~\~9J &fte,.+· ~"'$ 


THE EQUITABLE 
The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States New York, N.Y. An Equal Opportunity Employer, M, F 
7 
II 

-~ 
THE OBSERVER Tuesday, February 8, 1972
Page 4 



THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
t:dltor-in-<'ldd. Glen S. Corso ,\Ksistant l':tli&or
Auistall& F....._ 
All r.ucceuful new\l)apen are John Abowd
T.C. Treanor 
ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend 


;\dvrrtising Manager 
anyone or anything if they can help it; if th~ iob Is forced upon them. Bill Bauerle they tadde it by denouncing r.omeone or r.omelhing else. 
H.L. Mencken 



One year later 
Remember the great campaign rhetoric from last year? The two people who presently occupy the offices of Student Body President and Student Body Vice­President were going to "merge the student governments as soon as possible," they said near the beginning of their epic battle for the coveted positions. 
It is now nearly one year since John Barkett and Orlando Rodriguez were elected. One year in which there has been no overt move to merge the student government. One year, despitge the fact that both administrations elected last spring pledged to merge. 
Not all the blame for the inaction lies with John Barkett and Orlando Rodriguez. St. Mary's student government has never displayed any all con­sumingfieryzeal to merge either, butSunday they did offer a first step. 
The upcoming student body elections would have under the proposal, required the Presidential and Vice-Presidential candidates to come together in a bloc, and had both student bodies vote for the bloc they preferred. 
That course of action, the only substantial move made all year long towards the merger of ths student governments, was vetoed by John bBarkett and Orlando Rodriguez. Acting in concert with the rest of the members of the ND election committee, they destroyed hopes for a facilitated merger, with a few pious platitudes. 
That there "is a different structure and a different spirit to hall like at Notre Dame and hall life at St. Mary's" that could not be adequately represented in a merged student government, according to Rodriguez, is misleading and specious 
rhetoric. The issue at stake is not one of representing Canadians and Bolivians under the same government, or chickens and hawks or any groups that have large and fundamental disparities separating them. The issue is one of representing men and women, who, at present, attend institutions that will soon will be fully merged, hopefully. 
The Student Senate will have a chance to correct the foolish posturing exhibited by ND's student leaders. They can overturn the election committees findings and substitute their won. We hope that they do and force Mr. Barkett to redeem one of his campaign promises, finally. 
News Editor: Jerry Lutkus Art Editor: Mike Murphy

THE OBSERVER 
Features Editor: Marty ENSEMBLE Miller Sports Editor: Jim 
Donaldson Nite Editor: Anthony Controller of the Nite: rick SMC Editor: Ann Conway Abowd smith Paperboys: Roger Burrell, 
Ass't Nite Editors: Art Typists: Joe Wilkowski, Kevin Glenn, Matt Esposito, george lund Dan Rock, Diane Cherm­Cavanaughlayout: Nic Catrambone side, Pat Kenney, Debbie COMMENDATIONS AND Headlines: Chris Sullivan Gras, Ann Dreucker INSULTS: Headliner: Don Sian­Early Shift: John Abowd 1. When will the Taco Belles 
camano The "B" Team : Ed Ellis, and the Burrito Brothers Day Editor: Pat "Red­TC Treanor, Glen Corso, AT· ride again?man" Tyrrell Darin, Jerry Lutkus, Jim 2. The night is young and Picture Screener: Bob Donaldson, Hawkeye, the whaling is abundant! 
Hughes Bullet, Jim Roe, Jack 3. "I know I've got a date Kelly, Tom Valenti (in
Sports Nite Editor: Vic tonight!" 
Dorr absentia), Jim McDermott, 4. Jodf, sorry about the by­Stan Urankar 
line. J'L' 

Ot-1~ I L'iiEIJ~ TO••• 
Only casties h urning 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
blackout 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Jo h n A h o w d 
The Notre Dame-St. Mary's merger has joined the ranks of the Paris Peace talks and the latest UAW strike now that all the parties involved consider the question urgent enough to warrant a news blackout. Depriving the students and faculty of information surrounding a situation in which both have had a concerned and vital interest for several years is a serious measure. It places as many responsibilities on the negotiators as it presumes of the journalists asked to comply. 
A journalist expects a blackout to be short term and ultimately in the best interest of both the negotiating teams and the public. In­formation does not exist outside of its context. It is precisely because many of the lldministrators and writers who discussed the merger in the details necessary to present a clear picture of the critical problems, that some information control is warranted. It is just as unfair for an administrator to represent finances as the critical problem as it is for a writer to conjecture from severly limited in­formation that some financial solutions are better than others. Both actions are deceptions. They ask the public to believe that the only relevant information is what one man decides that they "need" to know rather than the facts which that man used to make his presumably rational decision. . 
The negotiators have an obligation to release only information that reports firm decisions. The May 14, 1971 press statement that an­nounced the original merger agreement placed a heavy emphasis on the willingness of both sides to negotiate. Now that this willingness has been challenged, announcements broadcasting "continuing willingness" are meaningless. Progress is the goal of secrf"t con­ferences. Straight-forward statements of "progress" or "no progress" are the only honest approach to rebuilding public con­fidence in boht schools' willingness to negotiate. 
Students and faculty will be hanging in limbo during the period of secrecy. The fifty dollar enrollment reservation is due next week. High school seniors seeking admission and financial aid must be notified. Faculty rank and tenure decisions are pending. Any decision which would adversely affect any of these or many other con­tingencies should be announced immediately. Public confidence has been broken once and it is pure folly to expect that any measure of this confidence could be restored if both administrations play games with the lives of the people who were burned once. 
Of course, any one of the negotiators could take matters into his own hands by handing out premature information. He would, once again, be making the kind of unilateral decision which places his own per­sonal interests in conflict with the public good. This does not mean that a news leak would not necessarily be in the common good but it places most of the deliberation concerning the public interest squarely in the hands of the talkative negotiator. Since he is deciding what in­formation he wishes the journalist to consider in making his decision to print the story, he cannot shirk the final responsibility for breaking the news silence. A writer can use all the facts which past coverage has provided but he cannot consider information, previously con­fidential, which the news leaker has chosen not to give him. 
Ultimately, the burden of secret negotiations falls squarely on the bargaining parties. They are taking the common good into their own hands and out of the correcting influence of public scrutiny. Besponsibility is a two way street. It cannot be expected of others if it is not practiced in the first place. 
Tuesday, February 8, 1972 THE, OBSERVER 
Page 5 

Dr. Matthew Baigell 
The prints of Chafetz: satire •

1n academe 

Sidney Chafetz is intensely committed to 
the important problem of our time: im­
proving the quality of higher education. 
Like many artists he is a teacher, but 
unlike most he has turned to the problem 
of his community. "The university is my 
environment," he says, "where I find 
subject and motivation". In view of the 
various art movements of the past 20 
years, Sidney Chafetz is an anomaly: an 
artist dedicated to a public cause. He finds 
his raw material not in junkyards but in 
classrooms, searching not only his own 
mind, but also those of his colleagues and 
students. Knowing the importance of 
education he also knows that centers of 
education do not always live up to their 
promise. He feels a sense of urgency about 
joining forces with such critic critics as 
Paul Goodman and James Conant, who in 
their prescriptions for our educational ills 
combine the surgeon's knife with massive 
doses of penicillin. 

As a result of his concern for quality in 
academia, his work has gained such 
prominence internationally that he might 
be called "The Artist Laureate of 
Academic Discontent". He is also one of 
the few artists producing a thematically 
consistent body of work concerned with an 
important public issue of the day. Begun in 
1948, the series now numbers some 40 
prints. Chafetz prefers the graphics 
medium not only because it lends itself to 
his subject matter, but also because he 
wants to associate his work with the 
tradition of social criticism enriched by 
such artists as Goya, Daumier and 
Kollwitz. 

Though Chafetz does not moralize as did 
the Englishman, William Hogarth, he 
intends his prints for an audience. He 
wants them to be seen and "read", and to 
be incendiary. 

His point of view is as causatic as the acid he uses for his etchings, yet his works intended to function as a conscience for the dedicated teacher. The perpetuation of mediocrity and the perpetual substitution of entertainment for instruction frighten him. Appalled by the conceptual barrenness and abuses of common sense of sorrow in his work. "Sorrow is personal", he says, "indignation is public and my prints are indignant". Finding purposeful activities and intellectual pursuits often ending in a promise, he holds up to view those actions and attitudes which then 
become the primary reasons for a university's existence. 
The view is not pretty. Populated with figures more real than imagined, more ethically evil than merely ludicrous, the personal inferno he makes of the American campus rings all too true. Pudgy professors in academic gowns wear 
Mickey Mouse hats. Bloated teachers cry lollypops or penants inscribed with their school motto "Medicritus". Empty­headed instructors hide behind their harlequin masks. I one prin, Une histoire sans paroles (Story Without Words), ob­viously derived from Pieter Bruegel's parable of human folly, The Blind Leading the Blind, a horse's posterior stumbles along leading its parrot-like,sheepish and blindly foolish students. In such works, where satire gives way to biting criticism, Chafetz spares neither teacher nor student, neither himself not his colleagues. 

But as he likes to say, "These prints are 
not made out of malice. Their purpose is to 
remind ourselves not to let these things 
hannPn" 
Like the artists of the medieval wood­cuts, Chafetz also intersperses words and phrases with figures. Written in Latin, the traditional language of scholars, as well as in English, some are purposefully misspelled as if to bedevil the freshman instructor. But where the medieval artist railed against the devil and vanity, Chafetz attacks the achievement of mediocrity. "If you can't teach them, entertain them", he engraves on one print. "Ineptitute in place of imagination", he writes on another. Quoting Ovid in Latin, he headlines across one woodcut, ''He who goes safely, goes in the middle". Figures pontificate, "Act Goodly-Think Hugely." 
Naturally, subject matter is often triggered by particular campus events--­processions, orientation day, Ph.D. candidates digesting departmental "party lines". All are informed by Chafetz ability to see the ludicrous and the absurd, as well as the unfortunate and the sad, in each situation. Processions show scholars as cretins. Nursery school substitutes for orientation day. Professors wind up their students with skate keys, few of whom, as Chafetz points out, have broken their mummy wrappings. 
Although his interests differ markedly from other artists, Chafetz does not criticize those who choose to interiorize their feelings and reproduce them by means of a highly personal vocabulary or respond with negative lack of purpose to social issues of the day. His prints, which call to mind the art of the socially con­scious 1930's, come from a person who matured during the late 1940's and 1950's. Far from agreeing, therefore, with the attitude well summarized in 1936 by the painter Louis Lozowick that " ... nothing could be more sterile than exclusive preoccupation with technical ex­perimentation and nothing more foreign to the best traditions of the graphic arts." Chafetz welcomes purely technical, compositional and poetic experiments. But he would prefer to synthesize his twin roles as artist and educator rather than devote the greater part of his creative energies to inventing private imagery and solving formal problems. 
Though critical of the present in­tellectual order, Chafetz is not defeatist. In a complementary series of prints, begun at the same time as the satiric works, he glorifies the heroes of mankind's. intellectual struggles. Through these works he projects his hopes for the future as well as his positive.committment to the present. Sympathetically portraying men such as Freud, Fros and Whitmen, whose personal accomplishments have made them culture heroes, Chafetz acknowledges is personal faith in man's ability for achievement. 
These portraits redeem what the satiric prints set out to destroy. Both groups complement each other and both forge integral parts of Chafetz's vision. They show him as a critic in the best sense of the term. for they show that he hopes and cares. 


Scott Joplin: ragtime composer rediscovered 
Ry Harold C. Schonberg ( C l 1!172 New York Times News Service 
Atlanta(undatedl-The big rediscovered American composer of the last few years has been Scott Joplin. This black pianist out of Texas, who was the father of ragtime and who died in New York in 1917, has been the subject of much recent talk, and there is even a Collected Edition of his music on the way. 
Joplin composed the "Maple Leaf Rag" and other works along that line. These piano pieces breathe a sweetness and period charm an echo of race and sadness, melodic and rhythmic ingenuity, that conquer all who hear them. And that is not merely a reflection of the current vogue for nostalgia. Scott Joplin was an ex­tremely interesting and original composer in his own reight. 
In 1911 he published an opera, at his own expense. Nobody was interested, and the work was never staged. Through the years even his orchestration was lost. Not until the Friday before last (Jan. 28) in Atlanta did the Joplin opera, "Treemonisha," get a public hearing. The performance, by an all-black cast at the memorial Arts Center came as a climax to an Afro-American music workshop that Morehouse College has been sponsoring. 
In writing "Treemonisha,' -the libretto was his own -Joplin clearly intended to author a social as well as musical document. He set up the forces of ignorance and superstition against liberalism and education represented by a young lady named Treemonisha. 
The only hope for the black community, Joplin stipulated, is through education. At the end of the opera Treemonisha becomes the leader of a group of blacks on an Arkansas plantation. The opera is not only a symbol of black aspiration; it also turns out to be a symbol of women's liberation, as many blacks around here are quick to point out. 
They also are quick to point out that "Treemonisha" must be regarded as a period piece, and they are right. As an opera it is naive, with a libretto virtually devoid of tension or literary ability, and the music that makes no pretense at development. 
Joplin thought naturally in small forms, and his opera is a collection of set pieces rather than a work with any kind of musical thread running through it. And Joplin, too, unfortunately tried to echo European harmonies and part writing in some of "Treemonisha." 
This is not a ragtime opera, although several sect.ions make use of ragtime elements, and there llrl' s~ctions of the work that reflect the strained writing of a composer floundering outside ot h1s 
natural style. But -and this is a very big 
but -"Treemonisha" makes an impact 
despite itself. Joplin could write 
extremely attractive melodies, and they 
were the kind of folk-tinged, Afro-American melodies that no white com­poser could have written. There are moments when "Treemonisha" comes unforgettably to life, as in some of the choruses that reflect the tradition of the spiritual, or above all the slow drag -"a real slow drag," as Joplin called it -that ends the opera. This slow drag is amazing. 

Harmonically enchanting, full of the tensions of an entire race, rhythmically catching, it refuses to leave the mind. Talk about soul music! 
The audience Friday night went out of its mind after hearing "a real slow drag." There were yells, and great smiles of happiness, and curtain call after curtain call. If the rest of the opera were as breathtaking as this, and also the second act, "and Dinah has blowed de horn," the opera would run forever on Broadway. 
Thus "Treemonisha" remains more than a historical and sociological oddity. It ends up transcending itself, breathing a peculiar kind of sweetness and hope. It may be that the militant blacks will dismiss Joplin's humble little plea as Uncle Tom music. One hopes not. And one hopes that the sophisticates will not dismiss "Treemonisha" for its innocent simplicity. For if the operadoes not have the purity of Joplin's ragtime piano solos, adulterated as it is by an attempt at a fancy kind of writing, it nevertheless remains an honest attempt. Joplin should not be faulted for being a child of his time. 
Morehouse College, aided by a Rockefeller Grant, gave "Treemonisha" an ambitious performance. Thomas J. Anderson, a visiting professor at the college, orchestrated the opera in a style that follows the one example of Joplin's orchestration that has come down to us. Robert Shaw conducted the small or­chestra, and Katherine Dunham was the 
stage director and choreographer.It would be hard to fault the pincipal singers -Alpha Floyd, Louise Parker, Seth McCoy and Simon Estes. . . All are experienced artists, and all sang with style and vocal security. Special mention must be made of Miss Floyd in the title role. The tessitura runs surprisingly high, and Miss Floyd sang the role with never a hint of strain in that silvery voice of hers. There was one pianissimo on a high B that will not easily be forgotten. 
Mention must be made also of the fine work of the chorus and dancers, most of them from Morehouse College. The dancers were an eager bunch of loose­limbed youngsters, and they were mar­velous in Miss Dunham's simple but ef­fective patterns. There is only one major miscalculation in the production, and that occurred at the end of the second act. Joplin, who had only a primitive sense of theater, wrote the billiant "And Dinah has blowed de horn" and made it last only a few minutes. But this could be one of the sock curtains of American theater and Miss Dunham should have given' it a reprise. And another. And yet another. 

r 
Tuesday, February 8, 1972

~P=ag~e~6~.--------------------------------~~~H=E~~ OBSERVER~------­
Letters to the editor 
...editorial policy, anti-abortion ads 
Editor, 
In the most recent editorial ­"Scorn where Scorn is Due," (2-4­72 editoriall -you responded to the barrage of intelligent criticism of your recent products. 
You attempted to defend your editorial policy. 
You made one logical statement -"The editorial that doesn't take a strong stand, the editorial that doesn't state clearly and concisely the writer's feelings on the matter at hand, isn't worth a damn!" What is debatable is the manner of this "taking a strong stand." Your manners are poor and boorish. 
You employ two different styles of writing, c01·responding with the subject matter. For example, your 1-21-72 editorial page has two editorials. The first 
editorial  entitled,  "The  Ideal  
Plan,"  is  a  quiet,  sensible  en­ 
dorsement  of  the  Law  School  
expansion.  It is a  logical,  con­ 

sistent piece of writing. 
The second editorial, entitled, "Good-bye Sister Alma", is a departure from sensiblity. ·You resort to the perrenial weaknesses of extremist writings -bitter sarcasm, name-calling, and misleading colloquialisms. You assume an ugly, divisive stance. 
Your style and attitude towards the Provost (1-28-72 editorial) is equally unimpressive. What about respect of authority? What about the dignity of the in­dividual? 
What I found most disgusting is your attempt to show off your competence through the use of excess verbiage. Your exploiting tactics ineffectively mask a certain lack of writing skill; and they force you <by their nature) to fall victim to the logical fallacy of argumentum ad hominem. 
Finally, your hasty, unbacked generalizations •about the editorial writers of America's newspapers are opposite of fact. The writers I am familiar with differ from you in one basic point -they do not try to pass off opinion as truth. Some times they print bullshit; but they label it as such. You will do well to follow suit. 
James Reagan 314 Farley 
Open letter to the Knights of Columbus 
Sirs: 
We wish to protest your taste­less anti-abortion campaign on several grounds. 
The first objection is purely gastronomical. The Observer is circulated around lunch hour, and we are no more charmed by pictures of aborted foetuses than we would be by graphic depic­tions of appendectomies or squashed frogs. We assume your intent is to gross out the infedels, in the tradition of the nuns who tell Isaac Jogues stories to traumatize school children into passivity. Sacred brutality is no less brutal. 
This leads to the further ob­jection of the basic primitiveness of your campaign. We feel that you insult the University com­munity by your explicit assertion that we are incapable of discussing the real question of essence preceeding existence. We don't mind the invalidity of your equation of morbidity being necessarily sinful . but we resent your archaic approach to a complex moral question in this intellectual community. 

Finally, we object to your campaign on the grounds of egotistical hypocrisy. The uproar generated by last year's abortion referal advertisement should indicate that abortion is not a topic to be publicly discussed. Instead it appears that we are with Pharissees, fervently thanking God that he has not made them as other men. 
If the topic is to be discussed in the campus media, let it be a debate. If your position is so self­
. evidently righteous, why bother to state it so repulsively? We do not wish to declare ourselves for or against abortion. We consider it a moral question which must be answered by the individual, but not on the basis of hypocritical, peurile polemics. 
Kathy Kosinski Karen Kelly Maureen McDermott W .L.Blazius 
Send the love potion 

r:;;~, ~~!hat neverfails. 
...-y..{,~/),---.. ~,-<\
::2.: 

(/)j,'",~il; ,,.. ~)
7C-rl<...:_;) •'-:__) --< 
m~1 ~ 
3,~
I 'ol,l._.,•t" ...... ~-<J>I 
Put her under your spell. 
Send her the FTD Love Bundle. This big, bright bouquet of freshly-cut flowers and Valen-

Usually av~ilable for 
less than *1210* 
tine trimmings is imaginatively ~ 
blended in a beautiful ceramic-~-~ bowl of world-famous Haeger Pottery. Order 11. ll a LoveBundle early so that it can work its magic 
all week. You can send one almost anywhere by ~~...~ 
simply contacting your nearby FTD Florist. (Hint! He 
can send candy with your flowers, too.) 
But start plotting now. Valentine's Day is Monday. 

The FTD LoveBundle~ 
"'As an independent businessman, ·each FTD Member Florist sets his own prices. ®1972 Florists' Transworld Deliver Associati n. 
su-pp-ort the 

Youth Advocacy Program 
Buy a Budweiser -Tiffany glass filled with a 48-hour willwrick candle 6 Scents: Bayberry, Orange, Lemon, Strawberry, Evergreen, Lavender Make great gifts for Valentine's Day! Or a great set of glasses to have in your room. $2.50-1 $13.50-6 $24.00-12 On sale at Mardi Gras Carnival and in Student Govt. offices -or call 7668 
to order: Free delivery All profits go to youth advocacy­Help promote Juvenile Decency. 
Hobert Rettig David Pais Mary Ann Proctor Joseph Velez Jim Wills John Cavanaugh Michael K Pet~.mi. John H. Woltz Jr. · Gregory Zimnawoda Cynthia A. Huff Edward FF. Gibbons John Turcic Dave Criscusto Tom Bonadies Tim Howald Ken Hughes Becky Bartzen Ferd M. Clemen Bill Krih~ 
'flw Observer considers all lt>tters to the editor. Please submit them typed and double spact-d to 
Tht-Observer 
Box II 
Notre Dame, Ind. 
or bring them to the office. We rl'gret that we cannot print all submitted letters. 

IMPORTANT REMINDER 
The Franklin Mint's 
$500,000 Bicentennial Medal Design Competition 
CLOSES MARC.H 31,1972. 
Draw your design idea in pencil or ink for a Bi­centennial Medal honoring your state's contribu­tions to our national heritage. You will compete only against other artists from your own state ... in one of 50 separate state contests. You may win a sizable cash prize and a once-in-a-lifetime oppor­tunity to become the artist from your state whose creativity will be represented on the face of an im­portant commemorative medal that will receive world-wide attention. 
$500,000 IN PRIZES There will be a total of 200 cash awards-four in each 
of the 50 states of the nation:  
First prize in each state ............ S  5,000  
Second prize in each state ......... S  2,500  
Third prize in each state ........... S  1,500  
Fourth prize in each state .......... S  1,000  
Total of prizes in each state ........ S  l0,000  

Total of prizes for all 50 states ...... S500,000 
In these 50 simultaneous state competitions, each artist will be competing only against other artists from his own state. 
All entries must be submitted on an Official Entry Form not later than March 3 I, 1972. 
If you have not yet entered and wish to obtain an Offi­cial Entry Form and the complete set of rules and instruc­tions, mail the coupon below.~ 
Bicentennial Medal Design Competition Box 1976 Franklin Center, Pennsylvania 19063 
Please send me an Official Entry Form, contest rules and instructions. 
PLEASE TYPE OR PRINT 

Name ________________________________________ 
Address _____ 

City--------------------------------------­
State, Zip _____________________________________ 
L----------------------------------------~1~ 



Tuesday, February 8, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 7 
In a row
Irish looking for two • 

by Eric Kinkopf Coming off a 97-71 victory over Michigan in succession right The record speaks for itself, forward Bill Schaeffer. LaSalle in the Palestra, the Irish before Christmas vacation. and the rebounding stats are Cluess comes into the game
Digger's Kiddie Korps will try roundballers will be out to St. .John's sports a 13-6 record, impressive, but the mere men­with a 16.7 scoring average andto add to their one game winning duplicate their longest winning an All-American candidate in tion of another All-American in IO.a rebounds per game, andstreak tonight when they take on string of the season, two games -Mel Davis, and a group of giants the line-up of an enemy starting Schaeffer has been scoring at athe Redmen of St. John's established when they defeated that have collaborated for an five is enough to make Irish fans 16.8 clip while hauling in 6l{niversity. 

Valparaiso and Western average of 42 rebounds per game. cringe. rebounds a game.last two 6-0
Produced by Jim Donaldson.=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=:=Scenario by T.C. Treanor The All-American Rick Lyons, a senior 
hopefuls the Irish have faced, carrying an average of 7.5 pointsMike Robinson of MSU and Wil per game, and Mike Kielty a 6-4 
Robinson of West Virginia, have senior are the probables at the had field days against Notre guard spots. Dame. ~ 
The Irish Eye 
The"sixth" man on the Red­

:=:=:==================================:::========The Winsome Leprechaun Who Couldn't And it'll take some kind of 
man squad is a transfer student, On this campus, as on any other, there are the usual number of chronic malcontents (research defense to keep Mel Davis in Ed Searcy, who joined the varsity shows this to be about 26.9 percent of the enrollment) who claim that sports are irrelevant and have check. last semester. The Redmen's no place in the academic community of the modern university. The hustling 6-7 junior forward ace-in-the-hole Searcy has been But lest it be said that "Motty" Miller has a monopoly on culcha on his features page, 26.9 per cent led the Redmen in scoring a year coming off the bench and scoring of today's sports page is going to be a noble dramatic endeavor---a theatrical pursuit of the eschaton. ago witha 20.7 scoring average at a 10 point clip while grabbing The threads of this bit of mummery began to form in my mind, amidst the filing cabinets full of and placed fifth in the country in an average of 7.1 rebounds per 
rebounding with an average of context.
sports trivia, sometime after Notre Dame's basketball loss to West Virginia last Thursday. It seemed 17.7 rebounds a game. And just in case those six aren'tto me that it had been awhile since I'd seen the Irish win a major sports event at home. 
dominating the boards like heThe hockey team had upset Cornell on Jan. 10 in the ACC but the students weren'taround to see that Davis has just about duplicated would like them to, first yearthat performance so far this yearone. Their last home ice win, previous to beating the Big Red, had come on Nov. 27. Since returning head coach Frank Mulzoff can gowith a 22.4 scoring average andfrom semester break, the icers had lost four straight at home. 

to his bench for 7-o senior Bill17.3 rebounds per contest.

Digger Phelps' boys had beaten Western Michigan back on Dec. 6 but dropped five straight in the Phillips or 6-11 soph Bozeat. 
·•friendly confines" since then. All this delving into recent athletic history reveals that Notre Dame's But the Redmen don't rely on Coach Phelps is planning one student body hasn't seen one of the "big clubs" win a game in two months and two days. Davis alone for their scoring change in his starting five. Based It's an unwritten law <until now) in the sports world that there has to be a "fall guy" whenever a punch and board work. Davis has on solid performances against team falls upon hard times. I'm pointing an accusing finger at Notre Dame's mascot, the leprechaun. WesVirginia ( 18 points ) and
had great support from 6-8 senior center Greg Cleuss and 6-5 junior
Now, if someone will dim the lights in the dining halls, we can begin. LaSalle ( 15 points) ,Don Silinski 
has earned himself a startingScene: The Specialty Employment Agency ,located in a dingy hovel on Chicago's Maxwell St. As the WCHA Standings role. Slink will replace Chriscurtain opens, we see Notre Dame's erstwhile leprechaun seated on a three-legged stool. The walls WCHA PlS. All Stevens in the opening line-up. 

are Indiana morning grey and cracked. In one corner is scrawled "The Canton Bulldog was here." 
Wisconsin . lo·5 38 Ill-:;.o The rest of the Irish startmg
Pipes are visible, stage left and stage right. There is sawdust on the floor. Denver.. . . 13·7 34 17· 7·0 five remains the same, Gary
Duluth . 12·8 34 13·11-1
Seated on furniture that has obviously seen better days is a condor from Pittsburgh, a bee from 
N. Dakota.. . . . .. 12·8 32 13·11·0 Novak, 19.7 points per game and Boston, a Titan from New York, and a well-travelled Piper, who has worked in Cleveland, Pittsburgh Mich. St .. . ... 111-9 28 13-111-0 
10.2 rebounds Tom O'Mara, 12.8

Mich. Tech.. 8-10 24 12·11·1
and Hamlin. The condor has a bandage around his beak which prevents him from speaking and a points per game, Willie Town-.
Notre Dame... 8·11 22 11-13·0
patch over one eye. The bee is missing his thorax. The Titan is about 5' 10" and overweight. Facially, Michigan . . 8·11 20 12·11~0 send, 9points per game and John Colo. College.... 7·13 20 8-14-0
he resembles Wahoe McDaniel. The Piper occasionally raises his instrument to his lips for a few Egart, 7.0 points per contest.
Minnesota . ·. f>-15 10 6-18-0
mournful notes, but whenever he does, water drips out of his pipe. Suddenly, a valuptuous secretary Despite their 4-13 record,
SATURDAY'S RESULTS

Miss Sentuoso <a cross between Terri Buck and Blaize Starr) walks out of the office of Hiram All, Minnesota 7. Wisconsin 5 Digger is proud of his kids, never­Pntrepeneur and employment agent and pronounces, in a voice pitched somewhere between Julie Michigan State 5, Michigan Tech 3 say-die attitude. 
Michigan 9, Colorado College 6 

London and Gravel Gertie, "Mr. All will see you now, Mr. Leprechaun." "That victory over LaSalle is
Denver 7, North Dakota 3 

The Leprechaun is ushered into All's office, a relatively opulent spot with the same sort of grey just what we needed," Digger walls. The white cracks in the wall are whiter than white, though, and adorned with pictures of WEDNESDAY'S GAMES said. After the loss to West Michigan State at Michigan Virginia everyone thought the
grateful clients---a Brown, a Griffen, and sundry other animals. In the corner, a forlorn urn marked FRIDAY-SATURDAY GAMES kids would just pack it in for the"Seattle Pilot" rests. The desk itself is round and marked "Boulder City Boulder"--apparently 
Michigan State at Minnesota ' 
season. But they refuse to quit.." 

another beast who never caught on. All waves his hand to a small footstool--marked "SingSong Colorado College at Denver 
Notre Dame at Wisconsin

Stoolies"---and the Leprechaun sits down. The Irish all-time record with
Michigan at Michigan Tech 

II .A.--Hi there, little guy, have a seat. St. John's stands even at 6-6. Tip­
SATURDAY-SUNDAY GAMES 

<The Leprechaun instantly assumes a fighting pose, left arm extended, his right hand close by his North Dakota at Minnesota·DuluiJ1 off is at 8 o,clock. chin, both knees flexed) 
N.D.L.--Shore and begorrah, if ye're goin' ta be a smart one, ye'll pay fer yere words. H.A.-I'm sorry, no offense meant. You're a regular little ... N.D.L.-I'm warnin' ya! H.A.--O.K., O.K. I was about to say, you're quite a scrapper. That how you lost your last job? N .D.L.-As a matter of fact, I lost my position because I wasn't tough enough. II.A.-1 see. Well, sit down and make yourself comfortable. My secretary will bring us coffee and 
OBSERVER
I

unemployment rolls. Now perhaps we should get a little of your past history. N .D.L.--I was born under a toadstool in County Cork around the year 1236. My mother ... H.A.-Uhh, a bit more recent history please. More along the lines of what your last job was. N .D.L.-AIIrightee. I was a mascot. A fighting Irishman to be precise. 
SPORTS 
II.A.--Seems fitting. Where? 

Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr
N.D.L.--Notre Dame. II.A.-You're putting me on. A French school? (At this point, Miss Sentuoso enters, places the rolls and coffee on All's desk and swivels out of the 
room. All the while, the Leprechaun eyes her avidly and, as she exits, mutters) 
N.D.L.-What marvelous buns. 

H.A.--(munching one) Yes, Manny Crumms makes them daily at his corner deli-bake shop. (He looks up and notes the Leprechaun's ogling eyes, bulging slightly from his head. He nods knowlingly.) Oh, that Notre Dame. What resulted in your fall from honor thither? 
N.D.L.-Me wha? li.A.-Why were you fired? N.D.L.--They claim I've lost my luck, that I can't win the big ones. Notre Dame hasn't won a 
basketball or hockey game at home in over two months. It used to be that the longest the Irish would go without winning was from one game to the next. 
<He begins to sob>. I've given them some of the best years of my life. Even after the auld master, Frank Leahy, quit and they let that fine broth of a lad, Terry Brennan, get away, I tried my best for that Kuharich fellow, but it just wasn't the same. It might have been more mediocrity when Par­seghian came, but he had been associated with Brownies before and we wee folk help one another. 
<He cries openly now.) But since that Southern Cal game of '70, I just haven't been able to deliver ronsistently. Oh, I've had my mom~nts, like the Texas and UCLA games in early '71, but I had a slump. Now they've let me go. And to think that just a few years ago I gave Father Teddy a pot of gold to gild the dome and the holy mother. Ah, I've been treated shabbily. 
*ifyou have alteadg
H.A.--There now. Don't despair. I've been successful in cases similar to yours. N .D.L.--Aye, me brownie friend told me how you fixed him up in Cleveland after he lost his job in t~penfe~ P.leate St. Louis. II.A.--Yessiree. And don't let"the fact that you're Irish bother you. Minority group employment is a 
ditteRatiJ fhi1 nofice, buf come in 
specialty of mine. Why, after the frenzy on cowboy and indian movies died out, I was able to get the 
1

and Vlfif out N_E.W tfote.
Indians jobs in Cleveland, Washington, Atlanta and a good many other spots. The big thing was 
finding people who didn't have any reservations about hiring them and I'm sure I can do the same for ONE BLOCK EAST OF NOTRE DAME CAMPUS OFF JUNIPER ROAD.
you. IIere's an opening for a chap with your interests in Belfast. How are you with a fire bomb? GIFTS • BOOKS • POSTERS • GREETING CARDS N .D.L.--If it's anything like tossing rolls of toilet paper, I'm your man. OPEN MONDAY & THURSDAY TILL 7:00PM. II.A.--Right arm. It's all in your throwing hand. I know you can handle it. Pack up your shillalagh BROWSERS WELCOME. FREE PARKING. 
and grab the next Aer Lingus flight. 
N .D.L.--Thanks for your help, Mr. All. I'll grant ye three wishes, next time I'm in town. With that remark, the Leprechaun hustles out the door and is off to O'Hare Airport, whilst I hustle 
\....~~ ~~ !\~,~~~=!!c;_JH'!~~~.!
off to the Grotto to pray that the Irish beat St. John's, or at least lle Paul, in the ACC so that this bit 
TELEPHONE 219/272-1704
of drama might never come to pass. 
I 

-~---~~~~~---------------------­

Tuesday, February 8, 1972

Page 8 THE OBSERVER 
Hughes book info traced to previous publications 

By Wallace Turner 
(C) 1!172 New York Times First of a two part series. 
San Francisco, Feb. 3 ­Selections taken from what was described as the purported autobiography of Howard R. Hughes indicate that these ex­cerpts could have come from previously published anecdotes about the reclusive industrialist, without any special inside in­formation. 
There was no indication in any of the excerpts that Hughes had a part in preparing the manuscript. 
Irving appears inN.Y. court 
By Douglas Robinson 
(C) 1!172 New York Times 
New York, Feb. 7 --Clifford Irving, the novelist who said he prepared the disputed autobiography of Howard R. Hughes, made his first ap­pearance before a federal grand jury today and refused to provide a sample of his handwriting. 
Federal Judge Morris E. Lasker, after a closed session in his chambers, ruled that the government's request for Irving to "execute certain writings" was proper. 
Irving, in addition to con­tending that his material from Hughes was gathered in a series of secret meetings with the in­dustrialist, has said that a number of documents received by McGraw-Hill, Inc., the con­cern that planned to publish the book, were in Hughes' hand­writing. Some of the documents were given to the publisher by Irving. Others came by mail. 
The Internal Revenue Service said today that it had filed a tax lien against Irving; his wife, the former Edith Sommer; and Richard R. . . Suskind, the 
researcher  whom  the  novelist  
hired  to  work  on  the  Hughjes  
project.  

York Feb. 10. 1464. 
PERSONALS HI MAX Roseanne: 

The soul can rise from the earth
~\\~WKD(Ai 
5 
MONDAY, FEB. 7, AT 7 AND 9:30 
Shorts: 
CAMPUS CHRISTIE, CRASY 
RAY, ENTR'ACTE, BEGONE 
CARE, FALL OF THE HOUSE OF 
USHER, TRIPTOTHEMOON 
(MELI ES), ADVENTURES OF AN 
ANEMIC CINEMA, LABYRINTH 
TUESDAY, FEB. 8, AT 7 AND 9 TRANS-EUROP EXPRESS by Alain Robbe · Grille! plus the short CAMPUS CHRISTIE 

into the sky like a bird, aware of its freedom, not feeling the barriers of man but the beauty of love which is eternal 
About the baseball bat: Forget it I guess I really don't need it Thanks for a wonderful weekend. 
Dear Ann, I'm sorry (hie), I'm sorry (hie),
~g ' 

I'm sorry The Colonel and The Swan. 
LOST AND FOUND 
Found: 2calculus books, Calculus and Analytical Geometry by Biddle. Please claim at Pan. dora's Books. 
Lost: Glass with dark brown frames in brown case. 
WEDNESDAY, FEB. 9 AT 7 AND 9 AND 11 
TRASH by Paul Morrissey . Andy Warhol Somewhere between Nieuwland and Engineering Bldgs. Bob 1185 
THURSDAY, FEB. 10, AT 7 AND 9 

Lost: Electric wristwatch, Black GREETINGS by Brian De Palma 
band with buckle. Mark 1730. 
Lost: '72 class ring at National riverrun by John Korty 
fRIDAY. FEB. 11 AT 7 AND 9 

Guard Armory (Kick-off Party); white and gold and blue stone; Name inscribed on back. Reward. Call John 232-2725. 
Lost: Set of keys, gold engraved ring; between C-2 and Convo. Chris 234-1946 or 3831. 
Information about all the in­cidents discussed in the excerpts is available in the clipping files of various publications, so that the skeleton of fact had already been established. 
However, without seeing the other portions of the manuscript, it could not be determined whether the rest of the book could also have been based on material already published elsewhere. 
A source familiar with the manuscript, who said that he had selected the sections at random, read the excerpts in a telephone interview. 
In addition to showing that the excerpts could be elaborations of facts known about Hughes' life, the material showed that the book, if it were published, might be an immediate target of libel suits from many persons. 
The tone of the excerpts is bitter. Hughes is presented almost as a paronoiac. His language is vulgar, according to the excerpts, which have him revealing intimate details of his personal life. 
McGraw-Hill, Inc., which in­tended to publish the book on March 7 until trouble developed two weeks ago, paid $650,000 to Clifford Irving, as author of the book, under the belief the money would go to Hughes. 


MECHA Invites Chicanos to Meeting 

7:00 pm, Feb. 8 
Urban Studies Workroom Rockne Memorial Bldg.
that a woman had gained control of the money. Then Irving an­nounced that the woman who cashed the checks intended for 
~

Hughes was his wife, Mrs. Edith 
CLASSIFIED ADS
Sommer Tryjng clubs to ask for bids for publication rights. The clubs' selection committee readers were required to sign secrecy promises, one publishing source said. 
In one excerpt, Hughes is quoted as saying that he had paid $400,000 to the then vice presedent, Richard M. Nixon, and expected Nixon in the late nineteen-fifties to help him with his problems with Trans-World Airlines. 
Hughes is quoted as saying, "Nobody was raising a hand to help me. They were glad. I'm talking about Washington. They were glad to see me in trouble. So I leaked the details to Drew Pearson." 
The rest tomorrow. 
Lost: Gold ring, looks like a belt buckle. Initialed and dated inside. Call 8985. 
-· 
FOR SALE 
-
Parts and Accessories tor lm· ported cars Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland) 
272-7187. 
For Sale: Martin D-35 G String; Kuston Amp--100 Watt, 4 Chan; Shure Mike & Stand; Gibson F· Hole Electric. All new 232-6383. 

New STEREO SPEAKERS combining excellent sound and decorative looks at reasonable proces. Call 283-8462 or come to 101 Sorin. 
S-track tapes for sale. 230 Fisher, 1972. 
-
Preferred Renters 4 bedroom, newly redecorated apartment. Kitchen, bath and dining facilities. $50 per month per student. 742 West Indiana. Call 272-6665. 
Handcarved Meerschaum pipes 
direct  from  Istanbul  all  first  
quality  Student prices. 287-4389.  
- 
NOTICES  

DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and Within Europe. Leave anytime from NY Chicago. Flight center 227 North Randall, Madison, WI 53706 (608) 263-3131. 
-
Need typing done??? Will do typing for reasonable rates and on short notice ·· don't waste time pecking away . Call Chip at 8256. 
ROME, ITALY. Summer Program. Stimulating curriculum. Outstanding faculty. Etruscan Archeology Program. Transferable credits. June 12· July 19. $760. Write: Trinity College-Rome Campus Trinity College Hartford, Connecticut. 06106. 
Attention Pre-law students! ! ! LSAT review course now ac· cepting students tor April (and other LSAT tests. For in· formation contact: Educational 
Ideas, Kelly Flynn, 283-8164 Average score increase 10 points. 
Words 1da 2da 3da 4da 5da 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 ll-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46-50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8.95 
17 2 Shows
THURS., FEB. 

6:30 & 9:30 

WANTED 

POETRY WANTED tor An· thology. Include stamped en­velope. Idlewild Press, 1807 E. Olympic Boulevard, Los Angeles, California. 90021. 
STUDENTS WANTED for small technical school. Curriculum ECPD accredited. Major in 9 fields of drafting, 2 fields of Civil and Electronics. A.S. Degree. Industry recruits on our campus. Transfers accepted February 14th through 21st. Institute of Drafting and Technology, Morrison, Illinois, 61270. 
Need ride for HTH from Penn State (along 1-80) to ND for weekend of Feb. 11. Will share$. Bob 1782. 
Desperately need rides for 2 young ladies from Kent State to Notre Dame and back on the weekend of February 11, 12, 13. Call 6987 and ask tor John or Ken. 
Need ride to Poughkeepsie or New 
In a new development in the tangled legal dispute over the book, a subpoena was issued in New York today requiring Richard R. Suskind, a researcher who worked with Irving, to ap­pear before a federal grand jury. 
Hughes has denied that the bllok is authentic. McGraw-Hill delayed publication on discovery 
With the start of federal and state investigations of the Ir­vings, and of the boo~'s production, the close ~ecunty under which McGraw-Hill held all copies of the book has been broken and what purport to be details of the manuscript have become available. 
There are three versions of the "autobiography." The first is 1,280 pages of transcribed con­versations from tape recordings. Irving said these were talks he had with Mr. Hughes. 
The second version is an abridged transcript, which is about 1,000 pages, that was sent to the printer by McGraw-Hill editors. The third version is 
the galley proofs, which McGraw-Hill circulated to book 
Engineering Auditorium $1 .00 patrons free Patron Cards Available -$5.00 




