On The Inside 
We print whatever news fits. 

serving the notre dome -st. mary's community 
Thursday, May 4, 1972
Vol. VI, No. 123 
Wf: ,Yu\DE aT ! 17 MORt. DA¥5 AND WE'RE ovi oF ThiS HOLE FOR ~001>}  r()I.)R 'tEARS Or T.-\IS 'f>\lll.. 1 :DON'T KNOW HOW I \..AST£1>.  J!JS( THINK! rwo WEEKS AND wE'RE FREE MEN! No MC>Rf EXAM$•• No Mt>RE: PAPfRS.  --·~---­NO MC>Rt TOW/1)/£5J NO ~ORE ~OA(Ht::.S, NO ~OT<_E" SoVfH :BEtJ.D W£'i..L BE JN IH£ REI\\. WORLD 1 •  WON'T ~Al-BE GRt:AT?  'fEA\-\ A~t> W£'LL.1 BE" o 1'1 o VR. OWN. wot>~'l tT. s£ Gl~AT ?  

• 
-Observer picks the year's ten best stories••.page ~ 
-Circus Maximus •.•page 18 


the observer Thursday, May 4, 1972 
In answer to faculty letter 
Hesburgh stirs mixed responses 
by Mike Baum 

Reaction to yesterday's Presidential address to the faculty ~aried widely among faculty members who signed either "The 
Future of Notre  Dame"  or  the  
second group letter.  
Five  professors  of  the  eleven  

surveyed by The Observer spanned the spectrum from complete agreement to "dismay." 
Gerhart Niemeyer, retiring professor of Government, found Fr. Hesburgh's speech "very impressive," saying that he felt Hesburgh "spoke from the heart, he was really concerned." 
Referring to recent differences among faculty members over the future and policies of the University, Prof. Niemeyer found the talk , "an aePeal to sobreity and at the same hme an appeal to the kind of spirit Notre Dame must have if it is to survive." 
Hesburgh's speech had stressed the need for faculty and administrationto draw together in the face of ~onomi~ crisis. 
Professor Ernest Sandeen of the Department of English, on the other hand, was criticial and dismayed." "I guess I was dismayed by the speech. I was amazed that so much of the Burt­chaell Policy had been Hesburgh's right along. Apparently nothing is going to be changed," he ex­plained. 
Sandeen specifically objected to administrative policy formulation procedures, policies he felt are decided by administrators and implemented with out discussion." 
Though Fr. Hesburgh had read from and affirmed an early statement by Provost James Burtchaell to the extent that ad­ministrators shpuld initiate policy to be 'tempered and tested" by such deliberative bodies as the Faculty Senate, Sandeen claimed, 
"Most of the principals and 


Niemeyer: Hesburgh calls for sobriety 
policies have not been, didn't seem to much good." 
Professor Paul McCane also of English, took a different and more approving stance. "I though he made a bold attempt to bring some kind of understanding. I don't think it was quite the right place to bring it up." 
Professor McLane said that the speech was an attempt to "calm the excitement." He expressed approval of the letter from Dr. James Massey, printed in yesterday's Observer, agreeing with Dr. Massey that "a good deal" of the current situation is the fault of the faculty. 
"This affectation of fears (about the future of the school) is sheer Ponsense," he offered, "a sort of paranoia." In the face of this he found Fr. Hesburgh's talk "a brave attempt bring some kind of composure." "Thefacultyhave to 
learn  how  to  moderate  their  
transports,, he said.  
Nonetheless,  he  did  not  agree  

with the timing of the speech, saying,~ "It was not entirely suitable, I doubt it was the time or place." He also found the talk "designedly vague. " 
Dr. Bernard Norling, of the History Department, also found the talk unimpressive, com­menting, "He didn't say anything very unexpected." Norling agreed with Hesburgh that "much of what has been undertaken here (in the way of restrictions on the faculty) has been done out of sheer necessity." 
Norling pointed out that many other schools had taken much more drastic steps than any here and remarked, ''To have decisive opinions a person would have to be high in the Administration or on the Board of Trutess." 
It is necessary to know the ex­penses, income and finances of the University necessitating such moves as the two thirds tenuring policy. Norling added, "I'm not dissatisfied with the way things are run" he finished. 
Dr. Thomas Swartz, professor of Economics, felt that Fr. Hesburgh's spee.ch, the bulk of which concerned the questions raised by the first faculty letter, had missed the point of the letter. 
"I think that Fr. Hesburgh may have missed the thrust of the first letter, which called for cooperation, but with faculty in­put," he said. Echoing to some extent Professor Sandeen's comments, Swartz suggested that "personalities are not the issue-it is the mode of operation." 
Swartz criticized what he felt to be "a lack of faculty input in decision making." He agreed with Fr. Hesburgh that an ad­ministrator should have "unique characteristic foresight, and the ability to initiate policy," but felt that the Administration was "following through on ideas without th "temporing and modifying" of these ideas by 
~'y~ant Floral Co. 
Flowers for all occassions 
327 lincoln Way West 232-3354 

All students interested in working for Saga Food Service next fall: We are taking applications. Please bring your new class schedule to the office at St. Mary's Dining Hall. 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester eccept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for S8 per semester from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556, Second class postage paid. Notre Dame, Ind. 46556. 
de Iibera tive bodies as suggested in the President's address. 
"I'm concerned with the changing that has happened since the Faculty Manual," he said, "We have lost faculty input." 
This difference notwithstanding, Dr. Swartz said of the President's speech, "He's calling for cooperation, and I agree 100 per cent with him." 

Norling: Hesburgh didn't say anything unexpected. 
WHAT'S HAPPENING THIS WEEKEND (see page 18)  
Notre Dame -St. Mary's Theatre present SHOWBOAT A musical by Kern & Hammerstein II April 28, 29, May 4, 5, 6 8:30pm sharp O'Laughlin Auditorium Tickets $2.50, $2 for students, ND-SMC faculty, staff. Information and Reservations at 284-4141, 284­4176  
SIMERI'S Happy Hour 7 to 1 0 pm 64% pitcher Bud. $1 .32 -PIZZA-Italian sandwiches Spaghetti & Sea foods LIQUOR & COLD CARRY OUT Free use of dining room 410 N. HILL  


-------------~======================:::::::::-::::-:::-::-::=:= 
Notre Da:me Poets 

POETRY READING 
readings by students: Rick Fitzgerald, Dan O'Donnell, Cathy Wolfe, Mary Pat Quinlan, John Coury, Gary Robinson, Jim Wilson, and Eileen Dugan SUN. MAY 7, 2:00pm LIBRARY AUD., 

UNIVAC 1107 COMPUTER NOW RUNNING ON CAMPUS • • • • • • 
• • • • • . BUT IT WON'T AFTER AUGUST 15 I 1972 
Convert your programs and magentic tapes before the 
1 10 7 leaves. All 7 7 0 7 tapes and some programs will not run on the IBM System/370 model 155 which is now 
installed. For additional information or assistance contact: Mr. R . R. Naegele ManagerAcademic applications or Mr. T. C. Drake, Assistant Director Customer Service 
at the Commputing Center. 
( 






--~ 
review of the year 

Observer picks the top ten stories: 


, 
by Don Ruane 
Merger problems between Notre Dame and St. Mary's had been declared the numberone story for the second year in a row among the top ten of the year. The top ten stories of the year represent those which created the most con­troversies; heralded pronounced changes in thought, sen­timents ·or physical make up of the campus; provided ex­ceptional human interest; or produced campus surprises and national attention. 
Arecap of each story follows, in their order of importance, as determined by this reporter, Editor John Abowd, and News Editor Jerry Lutkus, and Editorial Page Editor Jim McDermott. 
1. Merger-Unmerger 

First cancelled Dec. 1, 1971, it was revived Feb. 7, 1972 only 
J to unofficially collapse again 22 days later. Both can­' J
cellations sparked strong student reactions, especially the 
~ 
first. . Both campuses were actively involved in protest.
.... 

However, the second was met with apathy from Notre Dame N.D.'s first King, R. Calhoun Kersten, shown here with some1. Sr. Alma explains "why it is" to an overflow assembly of 
students. SMC was hit with student strikes, protest meetings, of the Illiterate Rabble in Wa Ish Ha II.
disgruntled s.m.c. students. 
window banners, threats not to pay tuition, and transfer applications. 
Neither administration would lay blame on either them­selves or the other, but one SMC Trustee resigned claiming that certain SMC negotiators had commandeered the negotiations and made unreasonable demands in financial matters. The merger has never· been officially declared dead, and SMC Trustees have voted to continue negotiations. 
:! . Coeducation 

Women's Lib and education both got a big boost when it was announced on Dec. 1, 1972 that Notre Dame could go coedtacational this fall, with or without St. Mar:ys'. It has been reported in Notre Dame Report 16 that 125 freshmen and 200 transfer women students will be admitted. Walsh and Badin Halls bit the dust in February, when it was announced that they would become the women's dormitories. Both halls protested strongly, and criticized the adminstration for ignoring a study which termed the halls unsuitable. The new students wll be the first women undergraduates in the 130 
,... history of Notre Dame. 


2. Death is sym uzed m this black wreath outside Badin ::. Sr. Alma Hesigns-Prof. Henry appointed. 7. Provost James T. Burtchaell under faculty criticism for 
Ha II, as the cost of Co-education takes its first toll. Acting President Sr. Alma Peter announced her his "two-third's quota" ruling. resignation in late January, effective Aug. 1, 1972. Sr. Alma took the reins of SMC in hand after the Rt. Rev. John J. McGrath died in the summer of 1970. She resigned to make way for a presidential search, in accordance with an SMC Trustee resolution providing for the search if merger negotiations fell through, as they did in December, 1971. 
However, Sr. Alma was subjected to much pressure and criticism regarding her part in the merger, which resulted in claims that she lost the confidence of faculty and students, and thus ability to communicate with them. 
Dr. Edward Henry, 51, was appointed President of St. Mary's College in early March, 1972. Although he doesn't officially take office until July 1, he already has made some administrative shuffles and made efforts to strengthen several departments. Dr. Henry believes in small liberal arts colleges, and that SMC has a future even if it never merges with the school across the road. 
Dr. Henry, who is director of the Center for Local Government at St. John's University in Minnesota, was well received by faculty and studer.ts in general, but many took a cautious, wait and see approach. 


3. Sr. Alma resigns, and new S.M.C. president Dr. Edward 1. Faculty Letters 8. Student organizers of the protest petition meet to discuss 
Henry steps in... Two letters, both signed by prominent faculty a.nd mostly the proposed academic calendar. from the College of Arts and Letters, were sent to the ad­ministration this semester. The first letter rapped the Provost's Office for allegedly leading Notre Dame from democratic methods. 
The signers also claimed they had little or no voice in any matter concerning them, and that the}were not reasons when tenure or other recommendations were refused. 
The second letter defended Notre Dame democracy, but acknowledted the communication problem. It also defended the Provost. Both called for communication improvements. 
5. SL(' sanctions. 

Students returning last fall, found parietal and drinking rules due for much tighter enforcement. The SLC was asked by the Board. of Trustees to draft sanctions or have the admini~tration draft them. The SLC complied, while student tervor against the crackdown increased. On Sept. 28, 1971, more than 600 students forced the SLC, which was to discuss the sanctiOns, to move from the CCE to the Engineering ""*'' Auditorium. The sanctions were tabled in true SLC tradition ":;"" . WV and haven't been heard of since. ,.-o::f. 
Viewpoint •faculty 

li. H. Calhoun Kersten elected. ~ 
4. The faculty letters about Provost James Burtchaell split The Prime Mover climbed out of a clogged, Walsh Hall ~-This year's M~~k Democratic Convention infused new life 
the ranks of the faculty. commode last month into the student body presidency and mto student poht1cal awareness. the national spotlight with a ribald campaign designed to show what a joke student government has become on cam­pus. He and Uncandidate the Cat spent more on cat food than they did on the campaign (about $10) while serious can­didates spent $200 or more. Kersten made use of campus notables from the world of sports, friends of the family, twilight audiences with the rabble from the fourth floor ledge of Walsh Hall, and was heralded by cries of "oligarchy'' and thr str:~ins of Pomp and C'ir<'umstan<"e in his parody. 
'i. Fat·ulty Tt-nure This issue spanned he entire year. and still leaves doubts 

•· and worries in the minds of untenured faculty. It started 
__..,.....Jl with the problem of how to solve the faculty increases created by th merger. but this was quickly solved. Next came Provost James T. Burtchaell's Oct. 1, 1971letter to all deans and department chairmen urging them to submit a plan to reach and maintain a two-thirds quota of tenured faculty within each department. The reason for this was to prevent Notre Dame from becoming impacted as did Yale, and froiT' losing the freecom to hire. 
New faculty were afraid of losing their jobs, and depart­


s. Concerned stuoents turned out in large numbers for the ment chairmen feared the loss of many fine applicants who 10. "Maybe next year ... " 
S.l.C.'s meeting on parietals. 
(continued on pg. 16) 


' -'' 

the observer "Thursday, May 4, 1972
4 




Campus an:Qouncements • • • 
Computer needs 
revised programs 
The UNIVAC 1107 will be 
removed on August 15, 1972, as a 
part of the new equipment in­
stallation plan at the Computing 
Center. The 1107 will not be used 
for instructional purposes during 
the Summer Session in preparation 
for its removal. It will be 
available, as it has been, for 
conversion of the 1107 tapes and 
programs to the IBM System -370 
model 155. It should be noted that 
the 1107 magentic tapes cannot be 
read by any other equipment in 
tn1s area and data not converted to 
System-370 compatible format 
before the 1107 is removed will, for 
all practical purposes, be lost. 
Programs which are currently 
being run on the 1107 will have to 
be modified or, in some cases, re­
written before they can be run on 
the System-370. 
The Computing Center Staff is 
prepared to assist current users 
with conversion problems. Please 
contact T .C. Drake, Assistant 
Director, Customer Services for 
additional information or 
assistance. 
Co-ed orientation~ 
committee begun 
Vice President for Student M­
fairs Rev. Thomas E. Blantz has 
appointed a committee of four 
students to plan orientation ac­
tivities for Notre Dame's new 
coeds next year. 
The students are Anne Cisle and 
Kathy Cahill, present St. Mary's 
students who will be attending 
Notre Dame in the fall, and Roger 
Burrell and David Fromm, 
presidents of the two halls <Badin 
and Walsh) that have been 
selected to house the new women 
students. 
Miss Cahill pointed out that the 
committee must concern itself 
with a two-fold task. 
"We must introduce the fresh­
men to college life and orient all of 
the girls to a formerly all-male 
University structure," she said. 
The committee has been working 

• The True luxury Cm• 
• 
The World.~ Most Untqu~ Cart 

• 
Voted The luxury Car Of The 'f~>arl 


SED SPECIALS OF THE WEE 71 VOLKSWAGEN Super Beetl Automatic, 'Really Nice Car. 70 VOLKS Convertible, 2-Door, Red 
66 MGB 
New Top, New Tires Nic ondition 
64 PORSCHE 356C 
A real collector's item 
71 850 SPIDER 
2 to choose from 

auto/sport 
CITROEN~ 
aDBll 

U.S. 31 N., South Bend 
Pboat 272 2154 

closely with the Notre Dame and St. Mary's general orientation committees. The ND freshmen coeds along with the SMC fresh­men will participate in the traditional individual hall mixers. Freshmen from both campuses will be invited to a mixer Sunday night on the SMC tennis courts. 
According to Miss Cisle, a Big Sisters program, similar.to SMC's program, will be organized for freshmen and non-SMC transfers. 
Burrell and Fromm will recruit former Badin and Walsh residents to help the girls move into the halls as they arrive. 
Other activities planned are a Mass at the Grotto on Sunday morning followed by a continental breakfast for the girls and their parents. 
Outdoor lunch 
slated lor-May 
Sunday, May 14th,· the Univer­sity Food Services are ex­perimenting with a special "take out" meal for all students who have validated meal contracts. 
Chicken, french fries and cole slaw will be served in a bucket. A• brown bag will contain: an apple, a brownie, napkin, salt, pepper, etc. 
Paper cups will be used for beverages. A caddy will be available to carry these paper cups. 
Students are encouraged to take their meal from the dining room to the outdoors to eat. We hope that students enjoy this new approach. Cards will be punched and no seconds will be available. 
Time: 5~00 P.M. to 6:30P.M. 
ME Prof honored by Big Brothers 
This Saturday at 6:30 P.M. Professor James Dashbach, of Mechanical Engineering and 50 ND students will be honored at a dinner sponsored by the Big Brothers of South Bend. 
The Dinner which is being held at the South Bend YMCA will be addressed by Cappy Gagnon, Director of South Bend Big Brothers. 
Gagnon said, "I would like to oersonally say how exceptionally pleased we are with the students at Notre Dame who participated in the Program. 
Senior trip is to 
Air Force game 
The 'Gateway to the Rockies' is making preparations for the arrival of the Irish and the demise 
of the Air Force Falcons on 

November 11th. Plans are being 
made by the Senior Class govern­
ment and the Student Union for a 
two or three day trip to Denver and 
the Air Force Academy, along 

with an optional ski trip to the mountains. 
Lodging, transportation, game ticket, and parties will cost less than $140, and sign-ups for a limited number of sludents (any class) will be in September. Any questions, call Jim Shanahan. 
Pre-med program to be reviewed 
The three programs of ' pre­professional studies at Notre Dame, which together enroll almost 900 students, will come under the review of a committee appointed by the provost, Rev. James T. Burtchaell, C.S.C. 
' Father Burtchaell explained "we have much cause for pride in our pre-professional programs and have reason to believe that our graduates are extraordinarly successful in being accepted at medical and dental schools across the country." He added that the 
programs, dispersed in two 
separate colleges, might escape 
the "regular self-scrutiny that 
benefits our other academic 
programs." 

He particularly charged the 
committee to consider such 
questions as: Are the pre­
professional students prone to bi... 
grade conscious? Are sufficient 
options available to students who 
do not get into medical school? Are 
the required courses in the pre­
professional programs the best 
ones for preparation for medical 
school? Are the departments 
appropriately responsive to the 
academic needs of the ore-

professional students? 
The committee consists of three faculty, three pre-professional students, three medical students who are graduates of the programs and three M.D.'s involved in medical school administration. 
They are: Dr. Richard A. Kurtz <chairman l, professor of sociology and anthropology; Dr. Jeremiah 
P. Freeman, chairman and professor of chemistry; Dr. Kenyon S. Tweedell, professor of biology; John Mulvehill· <A.L.P.P.); Charles Clark CSc.p.p. Major); Jeff Nilles (Sc. P.P. Con.); Joseph Moses, Case Western Reserve School of Medicine; James W. Findling, Northwestern Medical School; Maurice Norman, Indiana University Medical School: Dr. William B. Rich, Associate Dean of Loyola University's Stritch School of Medicine; Dr. Robert E. Mack, admissions committee at Wayne 
State  University  School  of  
Medicine,  and  Dr.  Robert  L.  
Devetski,  member  of  the  ad­ 

missions committee of the Rush Medical Center. 

One way from JFK. London, Paris, 
or Amsterdam. Round trip $195. 
Student power does it! Our inter­

national service just for students 
gets you special jet air fares to 

and throughout Europe. Confirmed 
seats, pre-scheduled departures. 
Complimentary meals and bar 
service. Avoid higher summer 

rates by booking now. Also flights 
to Tel Aviv, Zurich, Frankfurt, 
Rome, Athens, and others. 

For full information call~ (212) 986·8980 or mail coupon 
National Union of Students Travel Service, Inc. 30 E. 42nd St., N.Y., N.Y. 10017 Name __________________ 
Street __________ 
City_________________ 
State & Zip_________ 


LIQUORS BEER 
FOOD 

WINE DANCING 

TAKE-OUT & PIZZA 403 N· 2nd St. 
I'Jiles, Mich. 
Phone 683-9783 
GRAND OPENING All ND & SMC Students Welcomed 


5

Thursday, May 4, 1972 the observer 
• • • And more announcements 
Writer in Residence at St. Mary's National Institutes of Health
Jim Jendryk as Observer Business 
College. (NTHl.
manager, John Abowd, editor-in­Next year, he will study at the • 
Before joining the faculty of St.
chief, announced yesterday. California Institute of Technology
Paulis appointed Mary's, Mr. Isbell taught in the
Thornton, a native of Waterloo, at Pasedena to learn the 
General Program of Liberal The five-year award will allow
Iowa replaced the graduating techniques of working with the 
Studies at the University of Notre Martinez to pursue interesting new
J endryk at the beginning of the chemicals involved in sending
new Dome editor week.-lle had previously been Dame (1963-1964) and in the San side-lights to his research on an nerve impulses', and those charged 
Francisco Bay Area 0964-1969). important heart enzyme by freeing
production manager. with fighting diseases. When he 
"I think Thornton will make an Mr. Isbell has published poetry him from most teaching and ad­returns to Notre Dame, he will
Junior Michael J. Paulis of in numerous American and ministrative duties. The NTH
excellent business manager," apply the same methods which
Chicago will be editor.in-chief of His book, The award includes salary, and is one
Abowd said, adding that, "the Canadian journals. have proved useful in studying
the Dome '73, it was announced of the few programs available to
position is vital to the continuing Last Poets of Imperial Rome, was GAT to these new systems. Later,
last night by present Editor James published during the of senior. established researchers. ­
financial solvency of the paper." summer he hopes to study the biochemical
H. Hunt at the annual Dome 1971. An essay, "The Growth and processes which allow the body'sbanquet. 
Change: John Logan's Poetry", Martinex has been studying the cells to get certain chemicals in
The Civil engineering major has appeared in "Modern Poetry heart enzyme glutamate-aspartate and out, while remaining im­
worked three years for the Dome. Studies" during the winter of 1971. transaminase <GAT), which permeable to most substances.
These include sports editor two Professor Isbell has been com­stands at the crossroads of protein years ago, and as production missioned to do an essay, and carbohydrate released into the editor this year. His major con­"Decimus Magnus Ausonius: The blood, serving as an important tribution to this year's edition is Poet and His World", for indicator of trouble to doctor. Psych students the 32 page introduct~on of Routledge and Kegan Paul; the processea color pictures and essay will appear in a series: The enzyme is a large, folded present papersspecial effects, which he designed Studies in Latin Literature and Its 
'\ protein which "catalyzes"
and produced. Influence. Eight of the 25 authors of papers 
chemical reactions in small
Paulis plans to return Dome '73 presented this weekend by the
precursers of proteins and car­
to a 9 inch by 12 inch size, and if Notre Dame Psychology Depart­
bohydrates. By studying the en­
budget conditions permit. have a ment completed their research as
zyme and the tiny substrates it
small amount of color, naturally Chemistry Prof undergraduates.
binds, both in the free state and
processed colorand special effects The nine papers are being
during the reaction process,
throughout the edition. ''Next presented at the annual meeting of year's book will be nothing like gets NIH grant Martinez can gain insight about the Midwestern Psychological
which atoms are most important
Notre Dame has evern seen before Thornton: new Observer Business Association May 4-6.
<iuring the reaction. In the next
in its annals." Paulis said. Manager. Undergraduate student authors
Dr. Marino Martinez-Carrion, five years he hopes to extend this 
Most staff positions will remain are: Chris Cunningham (2), John
method to other important
the same next, except for Duane A. Harold Isbell will associate professor of chemistry at Joseph John
Clifford, Moskal, 
Dinehart who will serve as the University of Notre Dame, has chemical processes involving a Pearson, Alan Kamfonik, Charles 
F •d received Career large molecule acting upon a very
a Research
Coordinating Editor. Zubrzycki, and Gene Mercer.
read on rl ay .Development Award from the small one. 
Thornton is new Harold Isbell will give a farewell reading of his poems on Friday, 
Who is the first girl in your life? 
May 5, in Carroll Hall at 8:00p.m.
business chief A reception will follow the readings. Mr. Isbell, director of the Writing Program and assistant 
Dan Thornton, junior professor of English since 1969, ismanagement major, will succeed 
MOM 
Mother's Day May 14
Bina~:ular [laseaut 
GET WITH IT! ORDER EARLY 


Phone 272-2966 Class of '48 
Very special offering! 


MANHATTAN 
Built to professional standards for those who demand u~c~m· promising precision craftsmanship and opt1cal supenonty. 
Short Sleeved 
You'll feel the difference as the sculptured curve of the body balances effortlessly in your hands. You'll see the difference in the brilliant true color images sharply defined throughout the field of view ... distant objects and action seem so close you'll swear they are only inches away! Yet these famous make Sport 

SPORT SHIRTS 
Glasses are offered below factory list price in Europe! Order today-limit two pairs to each buyer. When present supplies are exhausted prices will be much higher. No COOs, please. 
priced exactly
Money back in ten days if not fully satisfied. 
Check these Custom Features:
* Electronically computed optical systems of une~~elled tru­color brilliance, balanced and aligned to super cnt1cal stand­ards to prevent eye strain. 
Regular $11 
Now $5.50 
* 
All air-to·glass optical surfaces amber hard coated to prevent internal light loss.

* 
"Squint-Pruf" front lenses block reflected glare from water, snow, sand and haze. 


These great and versatile shirts are in partters and solid colors in a good choice of sizes. Take
* Shock-resistant construction -extra strength hinge and bridge guard against misalignment; high index prisms are 
this opportunity to.stock up at savings of exactly permanently locked in. 
one-half! 

PROTECTION UNLIMITED, DEPT. 12 2701-Sterlington Road, Suite 132, Monroe, La. 71201 Please send me the quantity of Sport Glasses checked below (limit two). If not fully satisfied I will return the merchandise 
Use the Campus 
within ten days for a full refund. 
Shop Way to buy:
0 Send ONE only. I enclose $4.98 
0 Send TWO at the bargain price of $9.49 Pay in June, July and Name 
August with no in­terest or carrying Address 
charge added. 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME
City, State, Zip 


.J 





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd  Dan Thornton  
News: 283-1715  Editor-in-chief  Business Manager  
EditoriaI: 283-8661 Business: 283-7471  Don Ruane  Ann Druecker  
Executive Editor  Advertising Manager  

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Thursday, May 4, 1972 
From the editor's desk 
Finished but not final 
No pap! 

There is nothing really final about this edition except that, for a while, our staff must become students again. 
There is nothing final about the still brooding discontent among students and faculty over the decision-making process at this University. 
There is nothing final a bout the willingness of this community to accept coeducation as equal treatment for female students. 
There is nothing final a bout the relationship between Notre Dame and St. Mary's. 
There is something final, un­fortunately, about exams and the systemized production of an "education" that results in a degree. The finality comes from moving through a com­munity rather than into it. The sense of completion is heightened by final yearbooks, last editions of the Observer and Scholastic, graduation and the not so mythical "real world." 
What is it, then, that makes a person come to Notre Dame or St. Mary's and spend four years challenging the per­manent powers to open up to the students? 
A dedication to changing this place so that it becomes more livable and meaningful for the students that follow must go beyond the apparent finality·· of last semesters. Something must come away with those seniors who have not been molded by their education into the complacent attitude that says: since I am going to leave, I have nothing to leave behind but "good riddens." 
What they leave behind is a better place for those of us who remain and a better ND-SMC for those students they will never see. They also leave behind an inspiration for the rest of us to surrender our complacency--to take an active, vital interest in this community. John Barkett, Kathy Barlow, Bill McGrath, Glen Corso, Joe Hotz, Mary Ellen Stoltz, Don Mooney, and those who have not crept as noticeably into the media have all tried, in very different ways, to make this university a more livable place. 
If you ever get a chance, sit in one of the large abandoned rooms of Lafortune at three in the morning and think about what Notre Dame or St. Mary's might be like without the students who dedicated a large portion of their time to future students. Don't let yourself g.et buried in the silence, it could be lethal. 
John Abowd 

Final issue dedicated to Glen S. Corso Editor-in-Chief October 1, 19 70-March 2, 1972 
EDITORIAL STAFF 
Editor.in-Chief: John Abowd Executive Editor: Don Ruane News Editor: Jerry Lutkus Managing Editor: Joe Abell St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Features Editor: Rod Brave Editorial Editor: Jim McDermott Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Ann Therese Darin Associate Editor: Ed Ellis Night Editors: Jim Roe, Anthony Abowd, Dan Barrett, 
Jack Frishkorn, Joe Abell Day Editors: Tom Bornholdt, Pat 'Redman' Tyrell, Ann McCarry, Jack Kelly, Pete Fries, Tom Drape, Bill Sohn 
News Staff: Ann McCarry, Tom Drape, Michael Baum, Ed Rahill. Mike O'Hare, Art Quinn, Bill Sohn, James Dixon, Bob Long, Stan Podlasek, Don Hopfer, Larry Dailey, Mary Romer, Marlene Zloza, Joe Powers, John Powers, Sue Prendergast, Jack Kelly, Greg Pudhorodsky, Chris Sullivan, Bob Cosentino, John Comiskey, Anthony Abowd, Fred Schaefer, Art Ferranti, Jodi Campbell, Noli Kane, Greg Rowinski, Milt Jones, Andy Winiarczyk, Bill Weber, Bob Higgins. 
Night Staff: Carol Weiss, George Lund, Nick Catrabone, Chris Sullivan, Marty Miller, Don Biancamano, Bob Hughes, Beth Hall, Kenny Kampman, John Kloos, Pete Fries, Steve Barrett, Clark Eide, Kathy Schwille, Dan 

• Ryan, Marlene Zloza 
Cartoonists; Neil Rosini, Ted Kerin, Kevin O'Neill, John Downey, Jim Rosini, John Dengler Photographers; Jim Hunt, Mike Murphy, Joe Raymond, Carl Straub, Fritz Read 
Sports: Vic Dorr, Eric Kinkopt, Stan Urankar, Andy Scantlebury, Joe Wilkowski, Lefty Ruschmann, Peggy Lawlor 
Features: Fr. Griffin, Linus Sindrys, Jim Brogan 
BUSINESS STAFF 
Business Manager: Dan Thornton Ad Manager: Ann Druecker Production Manager: Joe Wilkowski Consultants: Jim Jendryk, Bill Bauerle Circulation: Roger Burrell, Kevin Glenn, Matt Cavanaugh Subscriptions: Art Ferranti, Steve Kane, Steve Wagstaffe, 
Tom Burke 
Typing: Helen Smudski, Mark Niederkorn, Rick Smith, John Brady, Lucy Rodarte, John Flanigan, Jill Hampe, Debbie Gras, Barb Norcross, Glen Corso, Ann Conway, Diane Chermside 
Ad Staff: Jim Dunn, John Maher, Jim Flannigan, Joanne Drexler, Tom Drexler Ad Layout: Ginny Monk, Grant Knapp, Rick Naumann, Tom Savin, John Rumbach, Maryanne Wright 
Pick-up party tickets from your department heads 


Minstre I of the da w nummnmuuum11mml11m11mmmu 
Rediscovery 

llltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllnnmlllllllmmmllmn Jim McDer m o t t 
This is not a good time of the year. Papers are becoming due, and overdue. Tests crawl toward us relentlessly. And we realize that we will be separated, at least for the summer, from people that are our lives here, or that we will not see many of the others again. Thoughts pile up, for­ming a wierd collage of memories, good and bad, and hopes, realized and lost. 
All semester, people have complained of a strange feeling: that something, undefinable, yet real, was wrong in the community we live in. There was an overhanging stillness in the air, a vague feeling of futility that no person could penetrate. 
Some called it apathy. The student body elections were a shoo-in for a man who found that apathy, and now he is trapped by it. As Bob Kersten tries to become Student Body President, he is hemmed in by the image of the joke, his beautiful satire on student apathy. He cannot escape the stillness; even "Prime Movers" are held down by this emotional lethargy. 
Others found the uneasiness a by-product of the "un-merger." The students of St Mary's, a part of the community, were shafted by disrupted plans, and dead hopes for Notre Dame degrees. Notre Dame men hoped for a true school --of men and women. Now, the transfer parade is starting_ Many women will leave here by next fall, or after next year. Others will wait and see, watch the carnival, and bide time to make a decision no one should have to make. In the meantime, few of the women who see themselves as transients on a sinking ship are willing to see any good here. Too many, it seems, are simply spending time, not energy. 
The pressure of higher requirements for grad, law and med schools was also cited as a reason for the fear-filled calm over the campus. Serious students worried about each test as if it were their lives on the line, not realizing that human values are more important than the 0.05 on the sacred GPA. 
Recently, attention has been focused on the administration and the distrust on the campus. The office of the Provost was accused of destroying the sense of community leadership that had, or has, distinguished Notre Dame. Thirty-one of the most respected faculty members signed a letter critical of Fr. Burtchaell's administration as Provost; thirty-one equally prominent teachers signed a letter sup­porting him_ 
No one of these reasons is adequate to explain the becalmed spirit of the campus, however, student apathy seems more a function of groups than individuals. SBP candidates saw individual interest in the halls, but a belief that it was futile, since "everyone knows that this place is a pathetic." Caildida~es had no chance to harness the individual concern amid the self-fulfilling "?rophesy of student apthy. But too many people really cared about what should happen here to believe that apathy alone would bring morale so low. 
~he annulled union of Notre Dame and St. Mary's did not raise the 

morale, yet it seems senseless to attribute all the futile felling to it alone. 
SMC students showed their concern over their future, and the school's. 
ND students cared, but the futility had already set in. There was no 
channeling of concern or action. With few exceptions, ·Notre Dame 
students did not try to relate to the pain at SMC. 
Higher grad school requirements, likewise, contributesronly a part of 

the "mean" feeling on the campus. If requirements for ND grads are 
higher, we must see that the quality of the graduating class is increasing 
in its O\\ n right. 
It would be convenient, but not realistic, to pin responsiblity for poor 

morale on the administration. The faculty letter did not go this far --it 
detailed specific problems that exist within the confines of the University, 
with its potential and failures_ 
There is no one answer why so many of us feel down because of the 

failures of the year. Perhaps it is because the potential is so much 
greater than the achievement, the smaller, real accomplishments are 
hidden. We've been able to take them for granted, in anticipation of a 
Second Coming of some sort. The achievement of friendship, the 
achievement of trust are not necessarily the type that can be shouted of. 
But they are the most real, and the most meaningful. And they are 
happening to all of us. 
The blues may be false expectations. I hope so. 

Thursday, May 4, 1972 the observer 


elton iohn: okay but disappointing 

I don't know, maybe I wasn't psyched up as much as I should have been or not in the proper receptive mood, but I was disap­pointed. Elton John just wasn't all he was cracked up to be. But perhaps I was looking for something that I should have realized was not going to be there. 
One thing I was not looking for last night was Country and Western music as a warm-up. Country and Western before Elton John? Well, as group spokesman, Mitchell Payne said, John asked for them. The Dillards, a bluegrass group straight from the Missouri Ozarks <and proud of itl 
gave it to me anyway. I will have to give them some positive credit, though; they knew how to excite a crowd. Billy Ray Latham's banjo playing was almost in­cendiary, and backed by Mitchell Payne's strong vocals and hard bass foundation, set the crowd to its feet. 
By far the cream of the crop of songs were "The Last Morning," "St. Pete's Gonna Put Me Up," and the final song, "Somebody Touched Me." The first, written, surprisingly, by Playboy car­toonist Shel Silverstein, typified C&W so completely, yet showed a certain ex­citement that is universal. "St. Pete", . supposedly a gospel song, sounded much more country than gospel, yet had that swinging, swaying rhythm of gospel music. "Somebody Touched Me" was the topper, though. This was a rousing, singalong song that everybody sang along with. Not a totally deafening singalong, but for a woar-up band to excite the habitually dead Notre Dame audience was quite a feat. 
They left with a standing ovation (well, partial. anyway >and returned suspiciously quickly to play a very short encore song, "Hamilton County Breakdown." Not too much of a song, but Latham's banjowork reached its peak. Just watching his fingers fly up and down the banjo neck was worth the listening to the whole set. 
A brief pause, accompanied by the semi­finals in Frisbee-piloting and an alwaystoo quick slurp of Coke before the lights went down again to produce, this time, Elton John. 
Entering m a pink coat that would put Liberace to shame. John went straight to his work, which, going without saying, it piano. Before even his backup group could join him onstage, he sat down and went J'ight into "Tiny Dancer." Though soun­ding a bit lacking without a beat behind it 1and definitely missing those beautiful violins on the album). the piece was very tenderlv done and was an excellent showpiece for John's virtuoso fingers. Too bad his voice wasn:t so virtuoso. 
He has been described as having a 

vaguely raspy voice. but when he started to sing last night, it was definitely more than raspy, he was downright hoarse. But fortunately. that was to disappear as the concert went on. 
A very smug look on his face, and very supple fingers stroking random chords, John introduced his accompaniment: Nigel Olssen on drums, Davey Johnston on lead guitar, and Dee Murray on bass. A passable bunch, with the exception of 
Vaudeville is alive and well and living in ()'Laughlin Auditorium where .the ND­SMC Theatre continues it production of the Hammerstein-Kern musical, Showboat. Showboat leaves much to be desired as a musical play, but is really a delightful series of skits hanging tenuously onto a weak plot. As such, it's not much of an actor's show, but provides an excellent showcase for the singers and dancers of the Theatre group. 
We've been offered a good, old-fas~ion visual extravaganza as the fmal production of the season. In a year of the broadway revival, when No No, Nanette. Sugal'. and A Look at the Fifties are all going strong, Showboat is an idea whose time has come... again. Showboat, much like the concrete canoes at Purdue, floated. even sailed, last weekend, despite all the gut feelings that it would go down 
like a lead weight. 
The musical owes much of its success to an extraordinary troupe of dancers. The show is smoothly choreographed by America's leading choreographer, Peter Gennaro. The troupe doesn't merely move ... it dances ... becoming a single moving body. All too often in non­professional theatre, we find "dancers" who move while music plays. In Showboat the dancers are dancing with the music. 

OU.Sen, who was much more than passable, they played well but not ex­ceptionally. But then again, if they did, I suppose they would take away from John, and that's not their purpose. 
They did fulfill part of their purpose by helping to pick up the tempo considerably. The excerpt "Suzie" from the soon to be released Honky Chateau rocked with a controlled emotion, as did the subsequent "Border Song" and his popular "Levon." After the slow start with "Tiny Dancer". .John seemed to be able to get into his songs a little more intensely, and his singing seemed to get into him more efficiently. He took on an appearance of tethered excitement in both his piano playing and singing. Continually on the verge of ex­ploding into a violent frenzy of smging and poinding on the keys, John seemed to be held back by both the song material and the plain fact that he was at a piano, a very restricting insturment when it comes to onstage emotion. 
Someone that was definitely not restricted though was drummer· Nigel Olssen. It's been a long time since I've seen such a shiny set of drums and such a shinv drummer to go with them. Olssen alm~st challenged John when it came to sheer presence onstage with his exciting rim shots and exasperated looks when tired. John and Olssen exchanged looks quite a few times during the set as if daring each other to rule the piece, and though John may have ruled the melodic line. Olssen was king of the hard, driving pounding of the rhythm. 
The "other two" members of the band, 
.Johnston and Murray, were fairly 
quiescent, almost to the point of apathy. 
Johnston looked like he knew what he was 
doing on the mandolin and banjo, but 
John's wild key-pounding continually 
drowned him out. As for his normal role of 
lead guitarist. he performance seemed 
almost extraneous in that his work wasn't 
entirely necessarv in the wake of John's 
playing. In other ;ords, his playing, which 
appeared to be above average (an ad­
mittedly very lousy criterion for judging a 
musician>. added next to nothing to the 
music. And that's too had. As for Dee 
l\1urrav, he looked like he was stoned, 
loving it and not caring about a damn thing 
as he thumped out a fairly soled basis for 
John's piecework. One genuine complaint 
I will air. however. concerns their abilities 
as hack-up vocals. Or lack of such. 'Nuff 
said. 
But. once again. the real star was, of course. the Star. Elton John. Despite his initially raspy voice and relatively tame renditions of his more exciting songs, he always retained the spotlight, whether it was on him or not. Taking on many dif­ferent looks. John played piano and played very good piano. He played on his knees, he danced. all the time the continual pound, pound, pound of hanky tonk erupting from the distinguished-looking instrument. Very definitely a maestro of rock piano, John has a highly polished style conbining emotion and control. His many faces kept the crowd amused with their childlike aspects. a characteristic very evident in one look of smugness that all but shouted, 



showboat 
Add to this an excellent chorus, and the production numbers alone are worth the price of admission, plot or no plot. . 
Solid performances are also turned m by Maribeth Fencl, Joan Zimmerman and Donald Shea. Miss Fencl, as Magnolia. has a sweet voice, the kind which is always a joy to lean back and hear. Neve_r belting out a song, Miss Fencl offers It to the audience to savor. 
Miss Zimmerman and Mr. Shea are a fine comic team. As Ellie May Shultz and her husband, Frank, the two provide some of the high moments of the show. From a high spirited dance in the opening sce_ne to wonderfully comic ''Life upon the Wicked Stage'' number, they are a joy to watch. Both are ideally suited to the "show biz" parts they play. Shea dancing brazenly away while Miss Zimmerman rolls a~d flutters two of the biggest eyes since Eddie Cantor. 
Tom Broderick, a veteran actor turmng 
in his last ND-SMC performance, seemed 
ever so slightly out of his element in some 
of the musical numbers, partJcula_rl~· 
when attempting to dance and sing with 
Miss J<'encl in "Why do I Love You'?" His 
acting, however, as the river gambler. 
Garth. provided one of the few clearly 
drawn. meaty characters in the musical_ 
The difficulty in character delineation m Showboat can best be seen in Susan Maher's Julie. Julie is a woman who has every reason in the world to sing the blues. "Can't Help Lovin' That Man of Mine" and "Bill" can be two powerful numbers. Miss Maher's voice is excellent, clear, vibrant. .. but that hurt, that certain emp­tiness which a Julie would need is lacking. At times Showboat offers too little op­portunity to act from the gut as well as the \·oice. 

Showboat is "Old Man River" and "Old 1\Ian River" is Showboat. Aubrey Payne, as the stevedore Joe. delivers an un­t~·pical. but pleasing version of the song. His stvlization like so much much of the show. ·is just a little night clubby. No ~eep hass singer. Payne offers no pretensiOns and delivers in his natural range. 
Helen Fricker was a joy in the non­singing role ot Magnolia's mother, Parthy. She showed all the charm or a graduate of the :\largarrt Hamilton. Wicked Wit~h of 
the  West  School  for  Ladies.  .:\lis~  
Fricker's  was  a  good.  comic  per·  
formance.  
Hichard  Bergman's  vaude\'ille-ish  set  

\\·ith an almost cartoon showboat adds color and mood without crampmg the dancers and chorus. Bergman manages to save a "biggie" in his set until the final curtain. 
joseph abel/ 

"Look at me," like a ten-year-old about to 
go off the high board for the first time. The 
look, which also smacks of conceit, 
seemed to appear-invariably when he was 
playing a particularly rough passage. At 
other times, a look reminiscent of a 
chimpanzee, utterly fascinated at his own 
playing, peered over the keyboard. A 
most curious performer, indeed. 
As for the actual playing of his (and 
lyricist Bernie Taupin's) songs, most were 
played with amazing conventionality. He 
simply played it and went on to the next. 
There were exceptions, the most notable 
being "Madman Across the Water," where 
two long jams occurred within the three 
verses, but for the most part, the songs 
were disappointingly "stock." 
But maybe it was better that there were 
fewer jams, for the jams that did ensue were also disappointing. Excellent pianowork, excellent drumming, excellent everything, but nothing really exciting or worthwhile getting into. Take "Madman" for instance. Now this song is, in my opinion, one' of the very best results of the John-Taupin team--a very troubled song, both musically and lyrically, and a very stormy and emotional song--but those jams destroyed it. Very dull in some places where John seemed like he was trying to get moving, yet not quite making it. they lost the original halting motive completely, and obliterated the original 
effect. And that was too bad. 
It wasn't until near the very end that 
John finally got moving and exhibited the 
excitement that is so evident on his 
albums. But once again, it was an ex­
citement that didn't strike me as quite 
right. It was too brassy, too brash, too 
honky tonk. And that was disappointing. 
Elton John can produce some very beautiful music, packed with a kind of controlled emotion and excitement that almost leaves one breathless, as nearly all of his albums attest to <I'll save judgement on Honky Chateau until I hear all of it). But when in concert. he seems to overstep the boundaries of his own music and tries to produce a kind of music that doesn't fit, a music that is too loud, and too imitation­frenzied. Damn it, it was too fake! The most obvious example of this was the encore (of course he had one---after the standing ovation he got, he couldn't have done anything else). An oldie---"Whole Lotta Shaking"---provided the material, and John provided the antics. A very bawdy, rousing song, the entire audience was on its feet and crowded around the stage, clapping, dancing and doing other related (and not so related) things. John pounded, leaped, danced, and everybody ate it up. But the attitude he had assumed did not seem real---like he had practiced it just that way on purpose. In short, he did not seem to genuinely get into the music. Everybody else did, especially when he returned again for his version of "Honky Tonk Women," which made it extra rlisappointing. 
And that was it---a very lively end to a very disappointing concert. Too bad the lively end wasn't a genuine lively. And too bad the concert was disappointing. 
I. franklin devine 
Patricia Gruska's period costumes and dance outfits are colorful and wild, completely in keeping with the mood of the "big musical". A word should be said about Miss Gruska's period wedding gown for Magnolia, rich, flowing, and crowd pleasing. 
The entire show runs on the backbone of a twenty-six piece orchestra directed by Thomas Doyle. 
This was the final ND-SMC Theatre production directed by Speech and Drama Department chairman, Roger Kenvin. In a year of snafus and unhappy"'choices, St. Mary's College made still another one which got little press when it managed to lose Dr. Kenvin. Dr. Kenvin's productions have been some of the high points of the last few years, whether working with inexperienced actors in studio productions such as this year's excellent My Sweet ('hart-'· or in the major shows such as the high point this reviewer has seen at the :\D-SMC Theatre. last season's The llu~tagt•. The vacuum created by his departure will not easily be filled. 
Slw'\ !mat demonstrates the smooth blockmg and the ensemble acting which have marked Roger Kenvins shows. 
Slum hoat continues tonight, Friday and Saturday at ()'Laughlin. 

the observer Thursday, May 4, 1972
8 
Dean Shaffer gives Law Day lecture 
"Law ought to be as rational a system as men can manage to make it be," Dean Thomas L. Shaffer of the University of Notre Dame Law School told a Law Day audience at a meeting of the Niles Rotary Club today. 
"We are inclined to in­tellectualize the law," he said.
t1 
"The law expresses all sides of us, good and evil, rational and
rJ 
irrational. We need to keep our
:-/_ 
feelings tuned in to the horrors of
1
)
.. .· the law; and we need to do that 
(I precisely because the law cannot express the best that is in us, the best we hope for, unless we are awake to the fact that it also ex­
-!t 
presses the worst." 

"Awful machinery" 
Citing the trial of Charles .1 ' Manson for murder in Los Angeles, 
J 
···/ Shaffer said "It displayed before my eyes all of the parts of me that I prefer to see as part of the law. I am sometimes a champion for 
righteous causes and for just
·l
?l judgment --as the prosecuting I attorney was there. I am 
' 
~r sometimes quizzical and doubting ~( and wonder what to do, as the jurors in that case did. And I am
l
(. sometimes evil and dark and inexplicable and frightening to
?/ 
myself, as the defendants, and
l 
especially Manson himself, were in
1 
that trial."
l 
Continuing, Shaffer said "I am
'{ 
also sneaky and manipulative and
( 
clever, as perhaps the defense
'( 
lawyers in that case were. Finally, 
f t 
I am sometimes wise and just and sober and altogether admirable-a kind of God. All of those things are
! the law and I am all of those things. As I look a round the courtroom in Los Angeles I see the awful machinery we taxpayers maintain for dealing with evil and order in our society, and, more to the present point, I see all of the sides of myself which I am talking about when I talk about the law. 

'i ' 
~I Law: an experience
I 
"Law is for each of us a personalf experience," Shaffer concluded. 
r 
'j 
l 
~ 
I 
( 
/ 
~ 
I 
! 
"It is part of us and we are part of it. If we can look at the law in this way, we might be able to use it, together, as a means of affirming what is best in us. We might also be able to deal with what is worst in us with compassion, for ourselves and for each other." 
Education changing 
Predicting that legal education is going to change dramatically in coming years. Dean Thomas L . Shaffer of the University of NotrP Dame Law School told members of the Elkhart County Bar Association that his profession will react to the students' search for skills necessary to win law-reform cases. 
"If, as I believe, more and more of our students want to learn to use law as an mstrument of social change, as an alternative to revolution, we will probably do more about training in the skills necessary to win law reformcases, and draft and enact reform statutes, organize and assist disadvantaged groups, and put pressure on city hall," he said. 
Shaffer added that legal education has to broaden itself, "If only because the lawyer of the future is probably going to stop using antique words on 14-inch paper and begin to function in a world now being described by the social and behavioral sciences." 
He said "legal education is going to become somewhat more educational and somewhat less legal. There is no good reason for us to confine ourselves to being trade schools for lawyers. Many 

Graduates will hear 
Kingman 
Kingman Brewster, Jr., the president of Yale University, will be the speaker at the University of Notre Dame's 127th com­mencement exercises May 21. He will also receive a doctor of laws degree. 
A total of 1,745 degrees will be conferred by Notre Dame's president, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. There are 1,247 bachelor's degrees to be awarded, 227 master's degrees, and 69 doctorates. A total of 135 persons will receive law degrees and 67 will be awarded master's degrees in business administration. 
Nine persons, in addition to 
Brewster, will receive honorary 
degrees. They are: Dr. Hannah 
Arendt, university professor, New 
School for Social Research, New 
York, N.Y., doctor of laws; Dr. 
llobert Coles, psychiatrist, Har­
vard University Health Services, 
doctor of laws; Dr. Paul A. Weiss, 
professor emeritus of biology, The 
Rockefeller University, New York, 
N.Y. doctor of science; J. Irwin 
Brewester 
the Cummins Engine Company, Inc., Columbus, Ind., doctor of laws. 
Also . Dr. Ernst R.G. Eckert, regents professor of mechanical engineering, University of Min­nesota, doctor of science; Judge Walter V. Shaefer, Supreme Court of Illinois, doctor of laws; Franklin 
D. Schurz, president of the South Bend Tribune company, doctor of laws; Sister M. Alma Peter, C'.S.C., acting president, Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, Ind., doctor of laws, and Thomas Grey Wicker. associate editor of the New York Times, Washington, D.C., doctor of laws. 
Archbishop Giovanni Benelli, undPrsecretary of state for the Vatican was scheduled to receive a doctor of laws degree, but unex­pected developments have prevented him from leaving Rome. Dorothy Day, the founder of the Catholic Worker movement and the 1972 Laetare Medalist, also will probably miss the exercises because of poor health.

WORTH $10 
I TOWARD PURCHASE OF ANY
f 
/ '( SUIT or SPORTCOAT ~ 
( I 
Bring this certiifczte to Gilbert's Campus Shop and use it for a $10 price reduction on any suit or sportcoat you select. You
1 
( can choose from a fine selection of styles, and fabrics; all ( designed to make you look your very best. Offer good only at ( Campus Shop.
( 
r 
r 
~ 
( 
l 
~ USE YOUR CAMPUS SHOP ACCOUNT... ( Pay June, July and August with no service or catrying charge.
~ 

·-~ c~ -~ ~-----::::-....__ 

r ~~~c;?:~>~ 
,r 


4J:GILBERT'S ' 
~ampU$~hop 
~---­
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 
schools are already experimenting with education for legal paraprofessionals, and a few are offering graduate programs in law which expressly disavow any in­
tPrest in educating lawyers." 
The Notre Dame dean said he could see future lawyers becoming . influential in a quieter way than has been true in the last generation. The new breed will carry out reform in manipulative ways, "in ways which see them joining with their clients rather than leading them " 

D!iiDUI 
MIII1AWAICA AVI. AT JOTN, 
HELD OVER 
IN THE GREAT TRADITION OF AMERICAN THRILLERS. 


PARAYOUNT PICTURES PRESENTS 
Ali MacGraw • Ryan O'Neal 

AHOWARD GMINSKY-ARTHUR HILLER Production 
Jo-hn Marley &Ray Milland 
W···r.,b1 [l,,pelc1b, Pt~t>, 
ERICH SEGAL ARTHUR HILLER HOWARu GMINSKY 
frt""t.'"t P.-· "' '~~;,: S:c·ed t, IN COLOR 
DAVID GOLDEN FRANCIS LAI APA!UMOu~r PICIUR! ·cp ~~..--.. ~~ 
SOUND TRACK::~ AV~I~:~~~--fft}
Ol'l PARAMOUI'lT RECORDS ·-~ __,_:, 

ND Prelaw Society Meeting 4 South Bend lawyers 
(criminal, corporate , US Attorney, general trial) 
will speak and answer questions 
Thurs. May 4 8:00 pm 123 Nieuwland 

MEN ONLY! 
Eddard and Baron take pride 
in announcing -direct from Ft. Lauderdale -"Barbara" . 
and South Bend's ''Chris''. 

EDDARD 
Expert hair weaving consult­ant 
Men's heir stylist 
from dale  Ft.  Lauder­ 
BARON Award winning  

men's heir stylist 
CHRIS 
Men's hair stylist

HAIR SPECIALISTS 
and hair analyst of Redken Labor­

in • • • 
atories, Van Nuys, Calif. and South Bend. 

1. 
Sensuous slithering layer cuts 

2. 
The British Shag with kittles 

3. 
Sculptured hair styling 

4. 
Floridian soft hair look 

5. 
Specialists in hair weaving 


CALL 259-7679 for APPOINTMENT 
OPEN EVENINGS 

HAIR STYLING, LTD. 

1321 £. lcliltty An., lisL (ttll._" .....P-.ICJ) 
.·~ 
Thursday, May 4, 1972 the observer 
9 

Where have all the chairJnen gone 



Mock conventions over the years 
by Jerry Lutkus quiet the crowd. convention actually started two maintained enthusiasm right down precinct captain for the 
Observer News Editor 
"There was a great deal of build­and a half years before the to the Vice Presidential election." Republicans, campaign manager up before it. It was a real ex­"cheduled date. But the actual Much like Andrus, Chema found for a Congressional candidate, and As the' gavel sounded, Eric travaganza," McCarten vork on the affair covered about signing up delegates the most he was appointed as a Juvenile
Andrus breathed a huge sigh of remembers. "There was a great 
ix months difficult part of the convention. Court Judge. His appointmentrelief. The Mock Convention that 
deal of interest in the issues, too. It But he began the registration which came at the age of 28, was
Against the Law
he spend months organizing was was very much like a real con­process during orientation. given him by Marlowe Cook, now a over, and it had nominated vention. Underneath, there were Nonetheless, he confirms that he Senator from Kentucky. He served 
Mopotger related the biggest
Senators George McGovern and a lot of people working, getting too, would do it all over again. in that position for three years and
disruption that occured thatyear.
Birch Bayh for President and Vice­their points through and collecting "I enjoy trying to make things then resigned to return to his law
The dean of the law students
President of the United States. votes." work. I enjoyed the organizing of practice.
refused to give them permission to
It all started months ago when The temporary chairman for it. I don't that a mock
think A former Marine Corps soldier, 
participate in the convention. So,
Andrus began signing up students that year, Edward Robinson, political convention is that im­Edward Robinson is now working
made man named
for the delegate positions. The recollects the convention in a they up a portant. Ours was sort of im­on organizing independent com­
Leonard Fingerman, gave him a
registration was the first snag of different light. "The campus was portant in that it was a protest. munity developments. His latest
hotel reservation in LA at the time
the convention. It required the about 70 percent Rebublican at Years before it was probably more project is Soul City, in North
of the real convention, and raised
presence of more than 1000 that time, and we had a important. From an educational Carolina. Before he went into
so much curiosity about him that
delegates and the registration Democratic Convention, so that viewpoint, it would probably not independent work, he was a State
the AP put a reporter out to find
wasn't even approaching that results weren't necessarily in­have the same impact. College Senator for Michigan (at the time
Leonard Fingerman.

figure. A door-to-door drive helped dicative." students today have a greater the youngest in Michigan history), 
Then on the nomination night,
the total to a satisfactory level. According to Robinson, everyone knowkedge of the government and worked for Urban Poverty Housing 
during a demonstration, the law
But in most years past, delegates seemed to take the convention its processes than they've ever had in Detroit, and served as the
students broke in through a
past, delegates were never a pretty seriously, but he noted that before. But it is still a good Executive Director of the Detroit
bathroom window and disrupted
problem. Blair McGowan, the first he got "bugged" at times because demonstration of what the young Metropolitan Housing Authority.
the convention for an hour and a
Mock Convention chairma of the lack of attention among the people are thinking." McCarten is a successful remembers that there wasn't an delegates. It became a social half. Mapother had hear rumors of graduate of the Notre Dame Law
this happening and had Navy
option involved in the . 1940 con­event with St. Mary's," School. He practices law in Shaker
ROTC members in uniform posted 
vention. Robinson, however, indicated Stay in Politics Heights, Ohio and has retained his
throughout the hall. The ROTC
"Dr. Paul Bartholomew initiated the change that had started interest in politics.
members then threw the law
it in 1940. In freshman year, creeping over the convention since As a whole the ex-chairman of
students out.

politics was a course we were the days of Blair McGowan. He Notre Dame Mock Conventions No Correalation
That wasn't the end of it though, 
taking and the convention almost claimed that he put in a good many have gone into a politically-related
because there is a law on the books 
was an assignment," he con­hours in preparation for the con­field, though there are exceptions. Is there any correalation? None
that ROTC students cannot wear
firmed. vention. Most of the hours were Blair McGowan, the initial head, really, except that all these men
their uniforms except for official
McGowan's fondest memory of spent in researching and writing graduated with the Class of '43 and were interested, young, Notre
proceedings. So, letters went out
that convention was his meeting of his keynote address. To add to carried with him in a BA in Dame politicians and they got
to the Department of Navy, and
,Tames Farley, the National this, Robinson was the co­business administration. After involved. The convention is now a
Notre Dame didn't hear the end of
Democratic Chairman. McGowan chairman for Adlai Stevenson. graduation, he joined the infantry fond dream in their minds, a
it for quite awhile.

wrote Farley to find out his duties McCarten agreed with Robinson and fought in World War II.He recollection that goes in the file
Michael Dillon, who headed the 
as the Chairman of the Con­noting the hours he spent in picked up a job in Chicago in th e along with those "When I was in
'64 convention, had recollections
vention. preparation were many. Again, post-war days, but eventually college stories.'' They are dreams,
much different from those of
his time was spent mainly in settled back to his home state of memories, and smiles. Nothing so
Mapother. Though his memories
"He sent me a nice letter and an preparing his keynote speech. 'It Michigan and a job in a factory. terribly important or earth­
were all very good, he remembers
autographed copy of a book he just wasn't an exceptional amount of The other exception is Chema, shaking or life changing, but
that at that time in history, there
wrote," McGowan remembers. time,". he countered, but he did but not by his choice. He something pleasant that happened
was so little of that unrest and
"He extended me an invitation to make note of the time that the graduated from Notre Dame with as they worked through Notre
dissatisfaction that is so prevalent
come to the Chicago convention campaign managers poured into a history degree and traveled on to Dame. Pat McCarten probably
on campus now. "Because of that,
and meet him. I had to get through the affair. Harvard Law School. Upon said the sentence that reflects it
the political situation was more
about 14 obstackles that prevented In 1956, there was an finishing at Harvard he worked the most: "I rember there being a 
normal. In that light it could be
people from seeing him, but I got in organization called the Academy with a law firm in Cleveland, Ohio, great deal of interest in the issues,
looked at in more of an
and visited with him for a while." of Political Science and it was this until the Air Force found him but I really can't remember what
educa tiona I light."

group that handled most of the suited to their tastes. He now came of it."
Looking back, Dillon remembers
Minimal Preparation Convention preparation. works in the Intelligence wing of Important? Well, kind of to the
eight or ten people who sacrificed
Robinson heartily confirmed the service, and claims that it people that remember it. For the 
an entire semester of their senior
In contrast to the time Andrus that he'd do it all agin if he had the bears no relationship to the name. importance lives in the memories 
year for the convention. "The
spent in '72, he recollects spending opportunity. "You've gotta un­His interest in politics, like all of and significance that each of these 
publicity men and the campaign
minimal time in preparation for derstand how to broker for votes. the chairmen, pre-dated the men remembers it by. Will it ever 
managers did tremendous jobs.
the convention. "I can't give a Life is a kind of brokerage. You've convention, and he vowed that change anythin~? Probably not.
There was that kind of naive en­
quantitative answer like four hours gotta find out what you can sell to someday he will go into politics Hut it's great memory.
thusiasm that comes when you're
and thirteen minutes, but I'm sure people and what you can buy." and run for office. Andrus signed again and smiled. 
first introduced to something you
that would be generous." The 1956 convention nominated Michael Dillon left Notre Dame The convention was over and he
think is important."

McGowan's memory of the Adlai Stevenson of Illinois. The after eight years here with a BA in had one less thing to worry about. 
In '64, tht state delegations were
convention has been clouded by the ballotting was tight with the political science, and a Ph. D. He What faced him now was his own
made as close to a representative
years, though, as he admitted. He Northern sections supporting is now teaching political science at election into his state delegation
group as they could be. Before
couldn't recall who the convention Stevenson and the Southern bloc LaSalle College, in Philadelphia, for the real convention.
they went into the convention they 
nominated in 1940. (The Con­standing behind Lyndon Johnson. Pa. He laughed, "It's-funny.
received a briefing about the
vention went for incumbent After three ballots, Johnson held a Mapother perhaps has seen the Somebody came up to me after the
candidates. Dillon laughed that
President Franklin Delano 552-532. But Stevenson pulled it out most varied career of any of the convention and asked me 'What do 
"The product wasn't any better in
Roosevelt in that year.) on the fifth ballot, 694-344. A late chairmen. He claims to be you think?. I've never really
electing Henry Cabot Lodge."
• In 1944, the convention was not run by Harry Truman pulled votes "somewhat active" in politics thought about it. I just tried to run held because of the wartime from Johnson's camp and netted around Louisville, Ky. He's been a the convention."
Times Change

situation. Most of the students Truman 302 tallies. John F. were in the service and military Kennedy was nominated as 
Dillon still remmebers that the
personnel were in classes instead. Stevenson's ticket partner. 
most serious concern, at that time,
The 1948 affair was a wild one as 
of the Executive Committee was
the students nominated Sen. Ar­Johnson Returns 
whether the law school was going
thur H. Vandenburg of Michigan nominate an for
to animal
for President. His running mate Johnson appeared again in the 
President. "We weren't dealing
was California Governor Earl 1960 convention, this time battling 
with the real serious issues that
Warren. against Sen. Kennedy. Bill 
· college students are dealing with
Vandenburg edged Minnesota Mapother, the 1960 Permanent 
now. Things have changed in eight
Governor Harold Stassen on the Chairman, remembers it as "the years."
sixth ballot. General George most realistic convention in the 
Dillon might have been closer •.
Marshall, who had been in con­country. The Southern delegations 
he had said things have changed in
tention, threw his support behind were right down the line for 
four years, because in 1968 , the
Stassen, but this solidified Van­Johnson. It took awhile, but 
Mock Republican Convention
denburg's support in the east and Kennedy got it." 
nominated Sen. Mark Hatfield in a
the south. By the third hallow it Mapother expressed delight at 
protest over the VietNam War. 
was evident that the convention the representative nature of the 
Thomas Chema who chaired that
hinged on wh· h way the Southern event. The state delegations 
convention said that the Hatfield 
block would turn. When they fell reflected greatly on the state's 
forces were "theprimeforce in the
behind Vandenhur-. it swept him make-up, according to the ex­
whole convention. Their only
to victory. chairman. Very few of the states 
platform was the war." 

Sen. Robert Taft was the were not made up of people from 
Chema recalled that the con­
darkhorse in the 1952 Mock that state. 
vention was not chaotic at all. "I
Republican Convention and he HP stressed the similarity bet­
wasn't like past chairmen, who 
waged a stiff b"attle against Gen. ween the Mock Convention and the 
might have attempted to promote
Dwight Eisenhower. But Ike actual convention that was held in 
rancor among the people, the war 
pulled out a seventh ballot victory Los Angeles. Even the voting was 
issue did that. There were plenty 
over the Ohio Senator. Earl near identical, Mapother claimed. 
of people who didn't want to make 
Warren was again nominated for "We practically closed down the 
the convention a protest against
Vice-President. damn University that week. The 
the war. I didn't really care just as
whole thing was covered on the 
long as everyone played by the 
Chaos in '56 campus radio." Mapother even rules."
noted that "It was the only thing in 
The convention's balloting was 
Pat McCarten, now an attorney four years that could be truly 
long and drawn out, he remem­
in Shaker Heights, Ohio, called a good mixer. It was one of 
bers. "I considered renting Stepan 
remembers the 1956 convention as the few activities that the SMC 
for another day, but we finished up 
being "chaotic." Me Carten, the girls came over to do something 
five minutes before the planned
permanent chairman that year, besides mixing." 
ending of the convention." 
recalls that he was forced to play Mapother claimed that the 
Everyone was tired, but the 
the national anthemn numerous convention was "a hell of a lot of 
people stayed interested in the 
times during the proceedings to work." He said that work on the 
affair all along. "Everyone 



10 7Q bS£ rVer Cen te r SP.,.,r..,e...,.a.d.___T.hu•r•sl!!!dl!!!amiy,•M-a•y•4•,•19•7•2 
• 

ee zn 

e ct 
Notre Dame has a beautiful campus. Here attractive shrubbery and trees surround the bookstore. Not-so-attractive posts and wires mar the beauty of the scene. One of the purposes of the Committee on Campus Environment is to keep the campus beautiful and rid the scenery of eyesores like the posts. 

by Anthony Abowd 
A campus of beauty is a joy forever. 
Many visitors to the Notre Dame campus remark about its beauty. 
The campus is beautiful. The full grown trees, bushes, vines and 
flowers give it natural beauty. The buildings and monuments give 
the campus architectural beauty. 
But not everything is beautiful. . Muddy paths substitute for sidewalks. Signs are inadequate or non-existent. Sparse lights glare over the night scene. Benches and outdoor plazas are scarce. The situation is sometimes dangerous and almost always displeasing to the aesthetic eye.
" Since ND is an academic institution it can turn into itself to find
~ 

i solutions. W.ithin ND are· many capable architecture teachers and 
.l students. There are artists and industrial designers. At the suggestion of Fr. James Burtchaell, University Provost, last year these people pooled their resources and minds into the Committee on Campus Environment. This is not a Lady Bird Johnson 'KeepAmericaBeautiful' type of campaign, a member of the Committee says, "It is more than an emotional, hot-dog ecologist kind of thing. The Committee is a serious study relaling several academic interests into one." The Committee explores renovations of the campus. 

The sole assignment of this brain trust is to formulate a workable 'Master Plan' for campus imporvement. "Our goal is to produce very real and practical suggestions that will ultimately be put into effect." says Professor Francesco Montana, chairman of the Ar­chitecture Department, and a member of the Committee. 
To date four specific projects and many spinoffs are being ex­plored. One project deals with standardizing the university's image presented in signs and stationery. Another deals with the messed up sidewalks. Some recommendations for lighting are being for­mulated. A study for an outdoor plaza i;:-:..dng explored. 

1\btre Dame 
~1842 
University of Notre Dame 
f01Rfed1&42 

A study in lettering designs shows what kind of universal lettering could be adopted for the campus image. The sa me pattern and lettering would appear on everything from street signs to stationery. 

1 _ ".I th.ink th~ administration is ,,, ~:'*-'.. ' ·, :~ " · ......,. :1t -:.:: ~~·:'<"'· mterested m tmprovmg the campus' .. f..,·,·:-~~· ·...::~,.. _?Ai=:~;,;:·:· ~( ~e'' ~ image in the visual media--signs, vehicles 
.~~-'_':' ~ ;::_::::.~ ..;.~ ' . · ·,~ and stationery. The problem is similar to 
a business establishment wishing to 
present a pleasing image to the public." 

( ( 


Kaufman is an industrial engineer who spent three years with National Cash Register Company working on product 
Untverstty of 
· Notre Dame 
Morrissey 
Residence Hall 

T_hese_ are various propasals for ca_mpus signs. The shape, material and lettering for all the Signs IS the same. The upper left s1gn a general_ identification sign. The lower left one is for ~ r!sidence hall.. The upper right one denotes a parking lot and the lower right sign would 1nd1cate the Lew1s bus shelter if it is converted into an information center. 
1. Standardized signs 
When Jim Kaufman, a teaching 1ssistant in the Art Department, first ::arne to Notre Dame last year, he did not (DOW where anything was. The signs or lack of them around campus did not _!lelp nuch. 
He discovered that no sign on the ex­
>ressway directed traffic to the campus. Jlo sign even marks the campus itself. In finding the campus, getting around on campus and finding parking "People are confronted with many contradictions and numbers. Signs are random and sparse. It all adds up to a hodge-podge of signs." Kaufman says. 
Image problem 
Kaufman observeu tnat around campus some buildings are well marked such as Hayes-Healy, the Radiation Center and Howard Hall. But most buildings are poorly marked especially the Infirmary and older residence halls. It is even dif­ficult to tell which tower is which. "The signs inside the Administration Building are riduculous," he adds. 
Several months ago Kaufman, through the Committee on Campus Environment, began researching the University's image 

Four proposals by the Committee on Campus Environment 


design. From this experience he draws his suggestions for standardizing signs and unifying the campus' "outward image." 
Unzform signs 

New standardized signs are proposed. "We should have signs for each building with uniform shape, material and let­tering." Kaufman says. He suggests signs be the same rectangular shape and vary in size according to their function. The signs should have one color schem1! and the same style of printed lettering. 
His proposals are detailed. The sigilli are made of specially treated brown aluminum. The finished sign has long life and resists vandalism. It is similar to the brown trim on the ACC. The shape and design of the signs are carried over into vehicle decals, office nameplates and official stationery. Color codes are used extensively to signify differ-ent parking areas or college departments. 
Kaufman also hopes a symbol for the university is developed. "It is a complex job, a real public relation deal that I would like to see them do," he says. The theory is that the symbol would be used everywheree the words 'Notre Dame' appear and would portray the outward image of the campus . 
A large sign is proposed to mark the entrance to the campus. Kaufman suggests transforming the Lewis Bus Shelter into an information center. He visualizes a large map, a calendar of events, campus newspapers and other information readily available for the bewildered. ' 

; 


Jim Kaufman, a teaching assistant in tht marker to designate the campus proper1 bear both the gates to the campus. Th campus symbol. 
~ .. . 
. 
. 

A 

Of 
L --_,. 



4. An outc 
Montana also cites the neea for the campus "to create a center where students: could gather, an area to respect." He mentioned the court between LaFortune and Hayes-Healy as a likely spot for this plaza. 
A water fountain, textured-surface sidewalks, a depressed area, trees, ben­ches and special lighting have all been suggested for the plaza. McCandless sees this plaza as a gathering place for ex~ tracurricular activities. "Presently the 
. ~ 
1\btre Dame 
1nforrna~tlon C.n~er 
' ·--·~·------·---·--.. . ... ., .....-...... 
·~ 

Thursday, May 4, 1972 Observer center sp_..r.e..a~d;..___ 





eautz· u
zmpus 
2. Sidewalk improvement 

ND Graduate Student Ken McCandless is working on improving the campus in a different area. He is studying sidewalk patterns, dirt paths and the flow of people 
around campus. 
"There are two problems with people and sidewalks," McCandless says. "One is the design of the sidewalks. People don't turn corners at 90 degrees. The other 
problem is less tangible:  it is the lazy  
attitude  of  the  people  who  use  the  
sidewalks."  

Diagonal dirt paths 
McCandless, a graduate student in Environmental Architecture, hlames designers for laying out sidewalk patterns that looked good on paper but had no relation to other builidngs or human nature. "People take the quickest path. Diagonal cutting is the biggest problem. I'm not against walking on the grass but if the grass gets enough traffic to wear out it should be paved." he says. 
The most obvious example of this diagonal cutting is the library dirt paths. 

e NO Art Department, drew this idea for a ty. He suggests a sign like this be erected 1e !)ox to the right of the words is for the 


ret of propn.red'I?' air plaza 


ioor plaza 
area has 180 posts and many sidewalks. There is not even a place to stop and rest." he says. 
McCandless says the only thing you can do in that area is walk through it. "We are trying to give people passing through the area more options-benches for sitting, more color, possibly a water fountain to lend an interesting sound." McCandless points out that there is presently no water fountain or outdoor auditorium on campus. 
1n a one hour period one weekday mor­ning, McCandless charted the people walking toward the library. 45 students used the paved sidewalks and 115 used the diagonal paths. He recommends paving paths like these. 
Ugly posts and wires 
McCandless cites the silver posts and guidewires as another negative element in sidewalk construction. "They are ugly and unaesthetic. If a twenty year old guy wants to walk on the grass these don't stop him," he says. Widening sidewalks and rounding corners are two of his alter­natives. To keep the grass along the edges of the sidewalk from wearing out he suggests a foot wide cobblestone border in place of the posts. 
A 'sub-theory' is also Q,fing worked on by McCandless. He thinks if a sidewalk is added one can be taken away. "If a sidewalk is seldom used then it probably isn't needed. It should be taken up and grassed over," he states. 
New materials for sidewalks are suggested. McCandless says that brick and crushed stone blend more easily with the environment and are a welcome change from traditional paving materials. 
Attitude problem 
To combat the attitude problem the Committee on Campus Environment is launching a publicity campaign. For 


.. .and a fin_al note on financing 
Workmen rake and prepare this grass for spring. Proposals by the Committee on Campus Environment would effect three things in this picture. The maintenance truck would bear a new university symbol and identification. The lightpost would be replaced by·one that blends with the surroundings better. The posts and wires lining the sidewalks would be 
removed. 
example, copies of a cartoon that ap­peared in the Observer on sidewalk shortcuts are being distributed. The committee will try to instill a sense of pride in the campus. "We don't have all the answers to change attitudes," McCandless says, "We will always have the guy who throws his cigarette butt on the ground." 
Campus lighting is being explored by the 
Committee on Campus environment as 
another dimension of the problem. 
"Lighting is primarily protective. It is the 
best deterrent to crime." says Prof. 
Montana. "Dark areas on campus are bad 
especially with the increase of women on 
campus. We need enough light in 
vulnerable places." 
The chairman of the Architecture 
Department labels the present lighting as 'adequate' but finds displeasure with the glare from the light and the light fixtures. "Everythingis dark after you pass by one of the lights.'' he says. Any new lighting 

McCandless hopes to stem a decline in campus beauty. "We need to improve campus beauty and design. What we do in the next five years will determine the quality of the campus." He lists the in­crease use of cars and busses on campus and bad attitudes as "Not dangers yet just pressures that will become dangers if we are not careful." 

3. Different lighting 
should enhance the campus. It should not have a glary surface of an abstrusive appearance. 
Montana has several suggestions for lighting revisions. He points out that the shrub lighting around the ACC is a goocL example of lighting that has "soft residential qualities, not harsh life a shopping center and not too expensive either," he says. 
The key to good lighting Montana con­tends if that the light bulb be hidden from view. "The effect is like candlelight, not dark enough that somebody can sneak up and not too much glare either." 
The committee recognizes their proposals will cost money. McCandless says, "If you do nothing to the area then it won't cost anyting. ·You pay for what you want..." 
But is does appear the university wants to do something. "The university is in­terested if plans are within reason. It is difficult to say we have x number of dollars. As an architect, I am a firm believer if we can't do five hundred dollars worth of improvements let's do five dollars," says Prof. Momana. 
For a money conscious university Kaufman quotes a reasonable cost for the signproject. "200 normal sized sigPs Qf this type will cost around $10,000 which is a real good price for long lasting signs." 
Money could be saved by standardizing stationery Kaufman points out. "When the present supply becomes used up money is saved by standardizing paper­work." There is no denying that the proposal will cost money. However, the changeover is not rapid. It should take anywhere from five to fifteen years to complete the project after it gets started. "When the moeny becomes available the plan will be there,"Kaufman says. 
In other areas besides the signs, McCandless believes that "investment now could save twice that much later. But we have to plan now." ~·or example, he says that the student center ·might be renovated and it is only natural to do the plaza at that time. 
As for the lighting, Montana thinks "nothing is bad enough to be taken away but in unifying we can remove some fix­tures and u~e them elsewhere." The university spends money for upkeep and periodic renovation of the campus. It is the goal of the Committee to channel these funds effectively. 

Another financing aspect is also being explored. The Committee is investigating the possibility of alumni or business support of improvement projects. Of the sign project Kaufman says, "Ideally an interested alumni or company could sponspr the project. Maybe an aluminum company could underwrite the cost of the signs if we let them use the signs in their advertising." 
Wherever and however the finances 
arise the Committee on Campus En­
vironment appears well on the way to its 
"Master Plan" for the campus. The 
proposals are simply ideas now, "dreams" 
as McCandless says. In the areas of sign standardizing, better sidewalks and lighting and an outdoor plaza, the Com­mittee's efforts are producing their one desired effect: to maintain the Notre Dame campus as a thing of beauty. 
''Our goal is to produce very real and pratical. suggestions that will ultimately be put in effect.'' 

l'hursday, May 4, 1972
12 
the observer 


The class of '72 
-Tom Gatewood-top receiver in ND history 
Gatewood rewrites the record book 


Terry Buck -set Irish Eyes smiling 

Cheer, cheer for old Notre Dame 

~ ···' .,, 

,:~;,.." 
Buster Brown-three years as No. I man 
He's number one 


Dick Tomasoni-bulwark of Irish ice program 

Shot...save! 
Ken Ryan -the Scrambler 
Ryan sets career win Tnark 



Walt Patulski -the nation's best 
Patulski is nation's' top lineman 

i . 

Joe LaRocca-captain of the Irish nine 
LaRocca's big bat leads ND nine 

Elio Polselli -big guy with a big heart 
Irish strongman 
Thursday, May 4, 1972 the observer 1 3 

I ~!.~.!t I~e~t~ lri!s~?.iu!rbycJ~t~ettin~s!o!n!! ~0~aiting
Michigan proved a stumbling offense. reload the bases, but Corp came three more in the third. Schuster and pinch hitter Mark 
block · h J k Kl' ' ff t L d bl d t th · ht Schmitz loaded the bases with one
m coac a e me s e or s ucas ou e o e ng center back to fan Tom Hansen and get Center fielder Leon Roberts, 
to attain that magical 5ooth career field fence with one out in the fifth. Ken Schuster on a short fly to acknowledged by most of the lri'sh out in the sixth. Joyce, who · t t d ft h n· k N b h d f finished with a five-hitter and six
v1c ory yes er ay a ernoon. T e ~c uss a urn reac e irst on an right. squad as the best Wolverine on the 
W I · · ped N t D error th p t s h 'dt I' d b R strikeouts. bore down, though, as
o vermes JUm on o re arne , en e e c m1 me a Bo oemer put the Irish to field, accounted for the last run off hurlers for 24 hits at Cartier Field triple through the gap in right within three on an infield hit that Noe with a fourth inning RBI Roemer wh!ff~~ and pinch batter 
th B. T d t t t t th w I · ' 1 d d Tony Iarocci' flew out to right.
as e 1g en squa swep a cen er o cu e o vermes ea score Rump, but once more Corp single. Michigan added two more 
doubleheader by scores of 8-5 and 8-1. 
Irish hurler Ed Hrabcsak was riddled by Michigan hitters in his three innings of duty in the opener. The junior righthander gave up 11 hits and six runs with all but one of those tallies earned, though he did manage to register five strikeouts. 
Junior Bill Lucas followed Hrabcsak, and pitched well in allowing only two hits through three innings. The sidewinding relief specialist was nicked for just one scratch run in the sixth, to 6-2. came through as pinch hitter Rick 
ND almost pulled out a win, Eich hit into a force play then trailing by six entering the last of ended the game. the seventh. Nussbaum led off with Sophomore Jim Noe pitched one a walk, and moved to third on Sch-of his better games in recent midt's double. An error put Ken outings in the nightcap, but made Rump on first to load the bases, some key mistakes at the wrong and captain Joe LaRocca followed time that cost Notre Dame the with a line single to left that victory. Noe was touched for just brought two runs home. seven safeties in his five stanzas, 
U. of M. starter Craig Forhan, though the hits came in well-timed who had limited the Irish to just six clusters. hits through the first six stanzas, A double, a single, and Hansen's was then lifted for ace reliever throwing error brought two runs Mike Corp (0.00 ERA in 10 innings home in the first, while two more this season J. Rob Reschan greeted safeties, a sacrifice fly, and Tom 
Blue-Gold slated Saturday 
by Vic Dorr 
The Fighting Irish football team will conclude three weeks of Spring practice this Saturday afternoon when head coach Ara Parseghian displays his troops in the annual Blue-Gold intrasquad game. 
The contest will be held in Notre Dame Stadium. and will be only the second time this Spring ~hat the team has gone through a game­
type  scrimmage  without  the  
benefit  of  the . presence  of  the  
coaching staff  on  the field.  The  

Irish went through four quarters without the support of the coaches last Saturday, and the number one unit rallied to claim a 24-15 victory over the number twos. 
Saturday's wrap-up game will be held under the same conditions, and will see Notre Dame's number one and number two teams pitted against each other for most of the afternoon. 
Co-captain John Dampeer, at offensive tackle, will lead ND's first-line offense, but it will be up to quarterbacks Cliff Brown and Tom Clements to lift the number one blues out of the mild scoring 
famine which has dogged them in recent weeks. But Brown and 
ND is third in Big State 
by "Lefty" Ruschmann 
Paced by the McMannon brothers, Elio Polselli, and Greg Cortina, Notre Dame's track team captured third place in Tuesday's Indiana State Meet at Lafayette, which was won by host team Purdue. Ball State finished a surprising second, and Indiana was fourth. 
Tom McMannon was first in the 120 yard high hurdles, turning in a time of 14 seconds flat despite running against a strong wind. His brother Mike was third in the same event. Mike also won the triple jump and placed second in the long jump. Mike Gahagan finished second in the half-mile, and Dan Dunne finished fifth in the three­mile run. 
.Notre Dame's quartet of Bill Phillips, Tom McMannon, Mike Mannon, and Dan Creehan was second in the mile relay. 
With a throw of 169 feet, 8-1/2 inches, team captain Elio Polselli won the discus event, while teammate Greg Cortina was third. Greg also finished first in the shot­put competition with a toss of 58 feet. 4112 inches, while Polselli came in fourth. In the javelin throw, Frank Pokego of the Irish took fourth place. 
Though the season is over for most of the Irish track team, four Notre Dame stars are headed for the IC4A meet later this month. Elio Polselli, Greg Cortina, and Tom and Mike McMannon will compete in the meet, to be held at Philadelphia. 
Clements aren't the only offensive will open against the first "D", will weapons. A cluster of able running be directed by quarterbacks Pat backs--the likes of Andy Huff, Greg 
Steenberge and Bill Nyrop, and 
Hill, Darryll Dewan, Eric Penick, will rely on the running of Wayneand John Cieszkowski--and a pair 
Bullock and AI Samuels, and the 
of talented receivers --Willie receiving of Bobby WashingtonTownsend and Mike Creaney -­and Pete Demerle. give the Irish plenty of scoring 
The kickoff is scheduled for 1:30potential. 
Saturday afternoon. and all Notre 
· Defensively, the first team will Dame students will be admitted be led by co-captain Greg Marx, free at Gate 15 upon presentationand returning regulars Jim of their ID cards. All others must Musuraca, Jim O'Malley have tickets. <linebackers), and Ken Schlezes 
There are no reserved seats for(defensive backfield) will further the game, and general admissionbolster the lineup. 
are priced at $2.00 for adults and The number two offense. which $.50 for children 12 and under. 
in the seventh off reliever Art 

The double loss drops the Irish 
Combs on two more singles, a 

season mark to 11-15, while
walk, and a fielder's choice. 

Michigan moved above .500 to 11-9.
The lone ND tally came in the 

Five games are left on the ND 
first frame. Rump walked with two 

schedule. Bowling Green invades 
men out, and LaRocca then blasted 

Cartier Field for a single game 
a curving triple down the right 

Friday at 3:00PM, while a twinbill
field line to send the freshman 

Saturday is slated for 1. The Irish 
across the plate. 

then travel to Western Michigan
Southpaw Tom Joyce was 

Monday, and finish up at home 
threatened seriously only once 

with Valparaiso Tuesday af­
more. An error and singles by 

ternoon. 

ll'ish baseball coach Clarence "Jake" Kline will have to wait a little longer for his 500th career coaching victory. Michigan posted a doubleheader sweep of Kline's club yesterday at Cartier Field, keeping the veteran mentor's win total at 499. 
Jim Donaldson 


The Irish Eye 


The year 1972 certainly won't be remembered as one of the most ex­citing in Notre Dame sports history. 
It was filled with disappointment almost from start to finish. Early season aspirations for football glory were crushed by Southern Cal and LSU. The basketball team floundered to a 6-20 record, the second worst mark in Irish cage annals, while the hockey team, which started its first WCHA campaign so well, suffered through a prolonged mid-season slump and wound up eighth in the league. 
During a dreary nine-week period in the winter, from Dec. 6 to Feb. 8, members of the student body did not see a home victory on either the basketball court or the ice rink. Things weren't always so gloomy, though. 
Perhaps drugged by the heady scents of pleasant Indian summer, the pollsters, as well as the experts at Sports Illustrated, tabbed Notre Dame as the nation's number one team in the pre-season rankings, even though the Irish were lacking a proven quarterback. 
After the season opener September 20th in Notre Dame Stadium, it looked like the Irish weren't lacking anything as they walloped Nor­thwestern, 50-7. Such was not the case, however. 
Notre Dame's offensive heroics were limited to the last three minutes against Purdue in rainy Ross-Ade Stadium. It appeared that Irish hopes for an unblemished record had been washed away when quarterback Pat Steenberge fumbled the slippery ball away at the Purdue five-yard line with a little more than four minutes remaining and the Boilermakiers leading 7-0. 
But luck was sitting on the Irish bench and came into play just a few seconds afterward. Purdue punter Scott Loughery fumbled a bad snap from center at his own three-yard line and never did get off the boot that would have preserved the Boilermakers' triumph. Instead, Clarence Ellis separated him from the ball at the goal line and Fred Swendson pounced on the loose pigskin in the end zone, giving the Irish one more chance to win. 
The oppurtunity wasn't wasted as Steenberge redeemed himself by lofting a pass to tight end Mike Creaney for a two-point conversion and a miracle, 8-7 victory. 
The defense held sway the next few weeks as Michigan State fell, 14-2, Miami was bested, 17-0 and North Carolina bowed, 16-0. But the pride and joy of the Irish was riddled in game number six by old nemesis Southern California, led by fleet wide receiver Edesel Garrison. Garrison hauled in two TD passes and set up another score with a long reception as the Trojans convincingly whipped Notre Dame, 28-14. 
The Irish bounced back, beating Navy, 21-0, Pittsburgh, 56-7, and Tulane, 21-7, but the final week of the campaign brought nothing but disappointing news. 
Faced with the prospect not being asked to a major bowl because of the proliferation of good teams across the land, the Notre Dame squad voted to decline any invitations to post-season play that might be extended to them. 
Many Irish rooters were disappointed and shocked by the decision, but not so deeply as they were just a couple of days later when LSU dealt Notre Dame its worst defeat in "the era of Ara", a 28-8 beating in Baton Rouge. 
The season held one more blow to Notre Dame backers. The wire services' final polls failed to rank the Irish in the top ten for the first time since Parseghian's arrival on campus. The season which had held such promise at the outset ended with Irish pride at a low ebb. 
Nothing happened during the basketball campaign to boost the morale of ND sports fans. Even new coach Dick "Digger" Phelps, who had worked wonders at Fordham a year earlier in his rookie season in the collegiate ranks, couldn't win games with the motley array of talent he had on hand and the difficult schedule he had to face. 
So the Irish cagers lost. And lost. Sometimes by embarrassingly huge margins, including a 94-29 drubbing at the hands of Indiana that was the worst setback ever suffered by a-Notre Dame hoop squad. 
Bu"t, no matter how many times Digger's "Dirty Dozen" had their faces rubbed in the mud, they never stopped fighting. By instilling such com­petitive spirit in the face of adversity, Phelps laid the groundwork for the basketball dynasty he is so determined to build at Notre Dame. 
For a while, at the start of the hockey campaign, it looked as if the Irish icers, despite their youth and inexperience, might earn national acclaim for Notre Dame by the end of the year but, after Paul Regan's overtime goal beat Michigan Tech to boost the team's record to 4-2, nothing con­sistently went right again. 
Lefty Smith's sextet had their fine moments, drubbing eastern rival Boston College, 14-3 in Chicago Stadium, becoming the first WCHA team to win the annual ECAC Holiday Hockey Tournament in Madison Square Garden, beating BC and St. Lawrence enroute to the title, and edging perennial national powerhouse Cornell, 6-5 in overtime. But, from December 3 to February 19, Notre Dame won just three of 16 WCHA contests, Only three home ice victories in the last four regular season games enabled the Irish to finish eighth and sneak into the league playoffs, where the eventual loop champion, Denver, knocked them off, 7­2 and 4-3. 
Even the coming of spring failed to bring better things as the Irish baseball team has been playing only mediocre, sub-.500 ball. One bright spot in the current diamond campaign is that verteran coach Jake Kline, now in his 39th year at Notre Dame, is almost certain to chalk up his 5ooth college coaching victory, putting him in an elite circle. 
The "minor " sports teams have, however, met with generally better success than their more heralded counterparts. 
The Irish fencers once again compiled the best record of any Notre Dame athletic team this year, winning 19 of 21 matches. Sabremen Ron Sollitto and Matt Fruzynski led the way with 43-5 and 42-6 slates. 
Terry Mather's young wrestlers, paced by outstanding freshman heavyweight Mike Fanning (24..0-1, 20 pins) and captain Ken Ryan 05-8­1). rolled to 11 victories in 15 dual matches, the most wins in the history of the sport here. Fanning's second period pin in the final match of the day against rival John Carroll late in January gave the Irish a come-from­behind, 22-21 triumph and provided one of the most thrilling momeni.s in any Irish sporting event all year. 
The swimming team got off to a fast start but a late season fadeout left them just over the .500 mark at 7-5. The emergence of frosh freestylt ....,tar Jim Kane and a revenge victory over St. Bonaventure highlighted the natators' campaign. 
Junior Tom McMannon presented retiring track coach.rAlex Wilson an NCAA title as a going-away gift, capturing the collegiate indoor low hurdles championship in Detroit's Cobo Hall. 
Notre Dame's veteran tennis team has rolled up an impressive 10-3 record thus far. despite dropping three of its first seven matches, and recently added a first place in the Huskie Invitational Tournament to its list of laurels. 
Coach Rich O'Leary's lacrosse team has also come in for its share of honors this spring, racking up a 8-2 record to date and establishing themselves as the :>remier club team in the midwest. 
So now the year almost over. Only a few stray contests are yet to be played. The past is behind us and it is time to look to the future --time to speculate if Ara can put Notre Dame back in the top ten in a "rebuilding" year: if. with addition of frosh stars Gary Brokaw, Dwight Clay and Pete Crotty. "Digger" can bring the Irish cage fortunes back to the days of the Arnzen-Carrera; to see if ·'Lefty" Smith can guide his now seasoned group of hockey players toward national prominence. 
Let us look then. to the future. for there lie better things. 
the observer 'Thursday, May 4, 1972
14 

Cycle fans are motley lot 

I 
1 
·.l 
{ ~ 
~ 
\ ( 
) 
~ 

Vernon Fladeland (right), representing the Uniroyal Foundation,
~ 
present~ a $5,0~0 grant to James E. Murphy, assistant vice president ~ 
for pubhc rel~t•ons and ~evelopment at the University of Notre Dame. The grant w1l underwnte the University's Collegiate Seminar 1972) Sum_mer Training Program. Professor John Oesterle heads the in­
tensive s~mme~ cou_rse in. the humanities which prepares faculty
~ 

/ members m engmeermg, sc1ence and business administration to teach5 the course during the regular academic year. 
~-----------------------------------------·­
~ 

Transcendental 
by Don Ruane 
Working class America, some sporting stomachs made from the finest grains and hops, others with the lean, weathered faces reflecting years on the farm, spent the afternoon last Sunday on a rugged hillside east of Bristol, Ind. 
Now why would families, guys and their girls, greasers, skinheads and longhairs want to get together on some rock strewn hill tucked in the woods off Rt. 120? 
They like motorcycles, and Sunday was a day for competition in the trying sport of hill climbing. 
Shortly before 1 p.m. a scratchy "Oh say can you see ... " hushed the crowd of two or three hundred as 
. ' 
1t struggled to get out of speakers wired to the trees. After it was over the pits at the base of the 140 foot hill exploded in unmuffled thunder 
' 
and everyone prepared for some 
excitement. 
The first ones up the hill were 
little guys, almost adolescents, 
who piloted tiny 100 cc bikes. The 
spirit of competition could be seen 
on their faces as they struggled to 
keep balance, and lost traction in 
the loose soil and rocky course. 
Some didn't make it all the way, 
but then some didn't even get over 
the three foot incline at the gate 
either. 
As the afternoon passed the 
bikes got bigger and the course got 
tougher. Each class made the hill 
softer, ruttier, and more 
dangerous for the big boys who 
were taking "warrior bikes" and 


~. 
I 
\ 
{ I 
\ 
~I 
·,
,.. 
,1 
) 
'· 
~ 
~ 
'· 
j 
\
,. 
j ~ 
i 
~ 
) 
\

1 
) r 
) 
J 
( 

other models with engines stronger much danger as the bike jockeys. "than 1,000 cc. Often ignoring the rope barriers, they lined the course wall, but
Only one person required minor 
medical attention, but one ex­whirled for safety every time a pected injury at any moment. powered to their side in search of Several riders couldn't negotiate better traction. Flying sand and 
the incline and watched woefully stone was another danger, and the as the ground got closer and their gallery often had to protect their bike went higher. One rider made faces and heads from the debris. 
Just a bout everybody broughtit to the top, hit a rut and came out 

of his header just in time to see his their own refreshments, and if they 
bike go down the other side of the didn't there was a food shack. 
hill. Members of the Caretakers Club of 
The announcer had several wry Northern Indiana wheeled their comments for those who lost Ford van in behind the finish line traction or fell. Among them: "He for distribution of several cases ~ade a U-turn at 40 feet, guess he Pabst among members. They dtdn't like our hill," or "The old could be seen strolling about the 
gray mare died at the bottom of the hillside in their riding clothes with 
hill." a can of brew in hand. 
Spectators were in almost as Other bike fans settled for 
Zapple and other wines. Other 
members of the Heartland of

HOUSing SUrVey America people settled for pop sold 
at the food shac!c

needs volunteers ,-------~:=:::::::::-=========:=====:::==============f 
The Northeast Neighborhood Center located at 908 Notre Dame Ave, <The old firestation on the corner of N.D. and South Bend.) will be conducting a housing survey on Sat. May 6 1972 beginning at 12:00 Noon until 3: 30 p.m.. Any Notre Dame student wishing to volunteer his services for three hours should call 284-9675 and leave his name and phone number. After 7~00 pm please call either 283-6781 or 283-1878. Thank you. 

Meditation 

Introductory Lecture Thursday May 4 8:00pm 
Library Auditorium 
DOME '72 IS IN! 
Yearbooks may be picked up according to the following schedule: Thurs., May 4: 10:30 5:00 Fri., May 5: 10:30 5:00 
Go to LaFortune Ballroom 2nd Floor ONE I. D. PER PERSON ONLY! 
Inquires after Friday should go to Dome office 
Anyone Interested in the Student Union 
1. fruit 2. cake 3. donut· Concessions for next year 
contact 
Walt (services commission) 
at 7757 

SOME GRAD SCHOOLS ARE MORE CHALLENGING THAN OTHERS. 
It's graduation day and there you stand ... diploma in hand and future in doubt. You could go on to graduate school.Oryou could look for a job in today's ever ..tighten.. ing job market. Or, you could put your education to work immediately by applying for the Air Force's Officer Train .. ing School program. 
Upon qualification, you'll find yourself beoin .. ning 12 \veeks of specialized study designed to prepare you for the challenge and responsibilities ofan officer's con11nission. And, give you the chance to go on to flight school to earn those fan1ous silver wings as an Air Force pilot or navigator. 

OTS is your chance to break away from the crowd and be recognized. For all the facts, mail in the coupon.Or, call8Q0..631..1972 toll free: 
Remember,\vith an Air Force future, the sky's no limit. *In New Jersey call S00-962-2803. 
~US A-;-;;;_CE RECRtJITI~G SERVI~ --::-;;.0·
I 
DIRECTORATE OF ADVERTISI!\:0 I R"A\1) I RA:>.:DOLPH AIR FORCE BASE .I TEXAS 18148 II Please send me more mformation on Air Force OTS. I 
1\:ame I 
Address----------­
1 Date of Bmh Ic,rv  Sex County .  I I  
I 5rare Zip_I D.nc of Graduation ______SchoolI l unJcrstanJ there " no obll~atlon.  I­II  

__________=--.!
L!'ind yourself in the Air Force. 1 
'{ Thursday, May 4, 1972 
•'­
.. 


Wellesley elects to stay all women 
by Ann Therese Darin Campus Editor 

Can a spinster be happier than a newly-wed brid~? · According to spokesmen for two prominent women's colleges who have recently opted to maintain their exclusive women's enrollment, 
· there are more opportunities for women in these colleges than in marriages with larger univer­sities. 
Two years ago Wellesley College, one of the famous seven sister women's liberal arts colleges in New England, formed a commission with Trustees, students, faculty, and ad­
'. ministrators t(l investigate the Massachusetts' school's future. 
The commission suggested that the college change its state charter to admit men as degree can­didates. 
"The Board wouldn't approve this," recalled Ms. Alice Gordon, college public relations director. "The faculty voted by a narrow 

margin to remain feminine in character. The students at one point wanted to go coed on a 60 percent women -40 percent men ratio, however, later they lost the urge " 
. r· 
Exchange programs 

' Instead of restricting itself to a
f··.· 
. 

merger with one ot the many men's universities and colleges
1~i'" 

within the greater Boston area,
t -. ' 

Wellesley joined a 12-college area exchange program. 
The program, which includes Amherst College, Connecticut College, Dartmouth College, Mount Holyoke, Smith, Vassar, Wesleyan, Wheaton and Williams College, has academic and residency exchanges. Men can live 
if"' 

and study on the campus, and women can study and reside at any of the participating schools. There is no exchange of monev within the program. 

Ms. Gordon also reported that Wellesley has a cross-registration program with Massachusetts Institute of Technology. "You have to take four semesters of credit, 16 Wellesley units, to graduate from the school," she said. <Wellesley students take four units or courses a semester). 
''All additional course work may he elected at any of the par­ticipating schools. However, the students have to select Wellesley majors. They can not elect one that the college does not offer," Ms. Gordon acirled. 
The movement away from merger is not limited to the East: In addressing an all-school assembly here last week, Dr. Edward Henry, president-elect of St. Mary's , questioned the students on co-eoucation as the solution to their problems. "One may well ask on any co-ed campus­-what are the most important extra curriculars'? Do they permit of female participation? And, if so, what proportion of women will play leading roles as compared with men students'? One is tempted to ask, will it take a generation or two to eliminate 'tokenism' "'? 
Despite the growing trend toward merging smaller colleges with larger universities, Wellesley rejected all proposals for unification or merger. However, it wasn't to preserve a bastion of decrepit feminine etiquette. 
New Breed 

Wellesley is one of a new breed. Defending the college's decision to remain uni-sexual, Ms. Gordon said, "Women's colleges give women an opportunity for role models of other competent women. They can always test themselves where they are respected as in­dividuals and have a chance to succeed, not in larger men's universities, where they are ex­cluded and outnumbered in the classroom.'' 
She also saw women's colleges providing students with necessary experience in extra­curricular activities, since at a university, men usually receive the best experience. 
At Notre Dame, women hold three key posts in campus media, while last year Mary Ellen Stolz a St. Mary's senior served as co­editor of the Scholastic Magazine. In Notre Dame Student Govern­ment and Student Union, there are no women as yet appointed for next year, although R. Calhoun Ker­sten, student body president, h2.s cancelled StuC.~nt Life Council elections so that women can vote in them, too. 
Ms. GordoP also noted that women have particular career programs, which women's colleges can offer. 
Henry's plan 
Henry plans to convert St. Mary's into a "progressive cen­ter" of women's education. He not only plans to expand extra­curricular activities on the college to give women an opportunity to compete and to develop, but he is going one step further than the colleges in the East. 
Following the plans of the Southern Women's College Association, he plans to revamp the curriculum to fit women's needs. Instead of restricting the number of majors at the college from which one can immediately be placed in a job, he is going to expand them to possibly include nursing, urban studies, paralegal institutes, a Montessori training school, and business ad­ministration. 
Henry feels that even if the social environment of women's campuses is important, the academic area is also crucial in training women for her new "liberated role" in society. 
While St. Mary's, Wheaton and Wellesley will remain for women, Notre Dame and Manhattanville, formerly a Catholic women's in­stitution in Purchase, New York , have gone coed, following the trend toward coeducation within the last decade. 

Huznphrey,McGovern vJe Jn Ohio race 

~·:wt-
Discrimination against men 
Nianhattanvillt. with just over 1oo men on campus this year could prove· to be Cj wave of the future. .discrimination against men on women's c:.mpuses. But, Manha~tanville is only a wave of the future. The situation at Notre Dame, now, and in the fall when the 300 coeds come on to the campus, is of great concern. 
On the same problem, Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, Notre Dame president, wrote in yesterday's Observer. "The University may need some structural modifications and personnel additions to make it work smoothly, but fundamentally the healthy integration of women into Notre Dame depends on at­titudinal adjustments and processes of communication. The problems are not unlike those already faced in the admission of increasing numbers of minority students." 
Experiments such as the one at Notre Dame will determine whether the movement toward coeducation becomes just a footnote in educational history journals... a has been until women's lib came on the scene ... or a chapter. 
YOU GET~ 
the observer 
Whyour fastback has thelast laugh on its competitors: 

;--­
T.E.E. 
B.E.E.! 

T.E.E. 
H.E.E. stand for Technical Engineering Excellence. And Highly Extravagant Extras. Stand­ard equipment like: 

• 
A high-cam engine 

• 
Safety front disc brakes 

• 
Fold-down back seat 

• 
Reclining front buckets 

• 
Tinted glass 




• Whitewalls See the Small Car Expert, your Datsun dealer. 
Drive a Datsun... then decide. 




DATSUN 
FROM NISSAN WITH PRIDE 
.lhHammes 
DATSUN 
2102 L.W.W. MISH. 
255-9644 Mon. &Thurs. E.ve. Til a, ;ro. 
BE'I"IER LOOKING AT UNIO with CONTACT LENSES 
No hassle. Slip into the action with better vision without bother. Contact lenses help you see better, keep you looking great. Feel free to join the action with contact lenses ... You get better looking at Union. 
Phone 875-5183 

by Douglas E. Kneeland 
(c) 1972 New York Times 

Columbus, Ohio, May :l-More than 24 hours after most of the polls had closed, Senators Hum­bert H. Humphrey of Minnesota and George McGovern of South Dakota were still headed for what appeared to be a photo finish in Ohio's Democratic Presidential primary. 
With the count of the lengthy 
paper ballots on which the names of potential delegates to the democratic convention were listed proceeding as slowly as glacial melt, state election officials were predicting it will be late tom­morrow before all the results were in. 
An aide to Secretary of State Ted. W. Brown, asked when returns were expected to be 
Fr. G r iflin111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 
' 
continued from page 19 

tuuumuuummuuumn•mmmuuum111111111u Special Feature 
on these homiletic d€'tails tc make one point: even on tne highest levels, one life, human or divine, can only be understood in relation to other persons. Christ could not even have known Himself unless He was perfectly acquainted with His blessed Mother. 
Here, among us, one existence is joined to another existence unW a community of lovers is formed, and the journey into self is made along that road in other people's lives leading to the human heart. 
So as Notre Dame goes coed, it must not be in the grumbling, grudging attitude of selfish boys, satified with living in a closed circle of privileged prerogatives. Rather it must be done in the spirit of men who recognize that no man is an island. All of us, at St. Mary's or Notre Dame, in one way or other, belongs to the other. 
It is in the finding of the other that you discover the best parts of yourself. 


FRANKIE'S 
EVERYDAY DINNER 

SPECIALS  
-Ocean Perch  $1.25  
-10 oz. Rib-Eye Steak  $1.50  
-112 Breasted  Chicken  $1.50  

Includes Tureen Soup, Salad, Bread, Butter and Coffee Planning a Party? Frankie's has Special Rates for Student Part!es! 
complete, looked up from a desk littered with number-filled forms and said without a trace of humor: 
"We ought to be getting an ex­cellent picture by tomorrow." 
Sen. Edmumnd S. Muskie of Maine, who has quit active cam­paigning, Sen. Henry M. Jackson of Washington, who last night decided to follow a similar course, and former Sen. Eugene J. McCarthy of Minnesota were far behind in the contest for at-large delegates. 

These Cabinet Positions Are Open: 
Executive Coordinator Research and Development Hall Life Human Affairs Acade~nic Affairs Public Relations Off Campus 
O~nbuds1nan 

Judicial Apply in the Student Government Office by May 3. 

16 
the observer Thursday, May 4, 1972 
Black writers are scarce in ND!SMC libraries 

John Williams: 01 wish white writers would stop pretending they just can't reach Neqroes." 
Top stories of the year 
(continued from pg. 3) 
.would be scared off by the quota. After reflection, many departments are learning to live with the quota. 
8. Academic Calendar In a second semester display of 
power, the Academic Council bowed to student pressure and changed their 1972-73 academic calendar so that classes would start Sept. 6 rather than the last week in August. Students protested the first calendar claiming they would lose at least one week of salary and work, and dismissed the administrative reasoning that since other schools were doing it, Notre Dame should, as illogical. 
9. Mock Convention. 
The Mock Democratic Con­vention nominated Sen. George McGovern of South Dakota and Sen. Birch Bayh of Indiana for President, Vice-President, respectfully. After three long days, the delegates were more than happy to get out of Stepan but many were willing to go through the confetti, shouting and horn tooting mania again. The convention was another plus in the history of Notre Dame politics. The first convention was held in 1940. 
10. Bowl Bid Rejected. 
After two straight bowl games, which followed more than 40 straight years of absence from post seasons games for Notre Dame, the fighting Irish refused to accept any bowl bids offered. The team had a successful season as far as records go, but point production was low and bowl spirit just wasn't there. The decision allowed many senior players to star in holiday senior bowls and all star clashes. 

Starts Tomorrow Exclusive lst run! 

Tht> (;rt>at~t t'nn<·t>rt of tht> De<·adt> ~ 
XOW YOl' C\~ SEE IT A~D HEAH IT... AS IF YOl' WEHE THEHE! 
in stereophonic sound 

apple presents 
GEORGE HARRISON 
ond friends in 
THE nel> CONCERT FOR BANGLADESH 
opplt/20th etnlury fo1 rtl~lt TtdHIICOior! 
by Marlene Zloza John A. Williams is an author, a black author. Williams spoke on campus on April 21 as a guest of the Sophomore Literarv Festival. Yet after his appearance, none of the listeners who had become interested in Williams' works had the opportunity to whet their liter..C!.!'Y appetites. Neither the Notre Dame nor the St. Mary's library contains any of his novels or poetry books. A few of his short stories are included in 
black  anthologies,  but  this  is  
hardly satisfying  to  the  curious  
reader.  
Further  examination  of  the  

small stack of books on black literature at the SMC library revealed that only superficial care had been taken in stocking such books. 
About half of the dozen or so volumes are circa 1900. Those which are more current appear very similar in content and scope. The only two that contain any of Williams' works happen to include the same short story, "Son in the Afternoon." Most contain liberal samplings of Langston Hughes, Claude McKay and LeRoi Jones. 
Black literature suppressed 
The introductions and prefaces of all the books were curiously similar; all confirmed the belief that black literature and culture has been suppressed and neglected in this country. They conceded that their volumes were not all­inclusive, but do provide an ex­cellent base for surveying black literature. · 
One of the anthologies stated boldly; "The present interest in the Negro artist appears to be a sufficient reason for singling out for special study these recent books which treat of the colored man. Only by isolating this par­ticular material from the body of American literature can we come to a deeper understanding and appreciation of the Negro's plac.e in our national life. The New Negro has sloughed off his protective covering of self-praise, over­sensitiveness, exaggerated ac­cusatwn of his oppressor. He has repudiated any special allowances, the appeals on which he has, in the past, been tempted to lean. He stands upon a certain pride in the history and the gifts of his race, but he looks beyond the limits of his particular group to a con­
sciousness of national and in­ternational identity." 
The copyright of that book? 1928. 
The above passage lends credibility to the idea that not much has changed in the past 45 years. Black literature is still considered a new phenomenon, that is attempting to establish itself as a stable art form. 
Labels and stereotypes 

Works by black authors are still stereotyped, isolated, from other American literature. Jt seems that every one of these books published is described by critics as having the same theme--racial 
discrimination,  the  second  class  
citizen and his struggle.  
In  an  article  entitled  "The  

Literary Ghetto," John A. Williams stated, "Almost without fail, a novel written by a Negro is said to be one of anger, hatred, rage or protest. Sometimes modifiers are used: "beautiful" anger, "Black" hatred, "painful" rage, "exquisite" protest. These little tickets deprive that novel of any ability it may have to voice its concern for all humankind, not only Negroes." 
"I wish white writers would stop pretending they just can't reach Negroes," Williams concluded, "For I can smell the illusion of concern as quickly as I can smell a phony, and from the same distance. When you do me, do me right. Then some of the barriers to the expansion of America's Negro writing talent may fall." 
This may have been the most important thing Williams ever wrote. Maybe the ND and SMC libraries could find room on their shelves for some of his books. They don't know what they're missing. 
Our goof 
.. OOPS! The slate of newly­elected officers for Regina Hall, a predominantly freshman­sophomore dormitory at St. Mary's College, was accidentally omitted from yesterday's Ob­server. Ann Smith and Mary Ellen 
Darin.  both  freshmen,  are  
respectively president  and  vice­ 
president for next year.  




(Think about it) 

-
~· 
Thursday, May 4, 1972 the observer 
Idealism leads ND grads into Peace Corps 
to say that a sincere reverence for ...responsibility ... maturity." heightened desire to help people by Ann McCarry connected with the Peace Corps being and the sharing of this Mike McCauley found that his and have changed or redirected from its birth on March 1, 1961. personal being is common among NO experience engendered some their major to one that will afford 
Bill Hrabrick used to get his Shortly after President John F. the Notre Dame men he has distinctive features in his ap­them greater interaction with exercise on tne rugby fields behind Kennedy signed a bill creating the commended. proach to the Peace Corps which people.the A.C.C. or on the Stephan Center corps, Father Theodore Hesburgh This effervescent youthful effected a unique capacity for basketball courts. As a Peace was asked to plan a project for one idealism can also prove a disad­personal growth. A Foundation for Inspiration
Corps volunteer, a 1971 Notre of the foreign countries with which vantage to a volunteer. "I viewed my years overseas as Dame graduate now commutes, on the corps would cooperate. "The disadvantages of this a continuation of my search for self In the final analysis, it is the foot, between six Guatemalan background have their genesis in and God wtJich I really began in combination of a spirit of ad­
On July 20 of the following
mountain villages. During the two­that which earnest during school. I ap­sensitivity, compassion,
summer, fifty-two young same idealism venture, 
hour walks between towns, Bill fomented the advantages," preciated the loneliness and the and selflessness into a driving
Americans arrived at the
often thinks about Notre Dame. commented McCauley "That is, I isolation in my early days in the motivation that is most vital to the
University of Notre Dame to
"Another five weeks or so will found that I thought in such village in Ceylon because it gave success of a Peace Corps volun­
prepare for the first Peace Corps
mark a year that we graduated idealistic and naive terms after me time to confront myself and to teer. Working in a desolate rural
mission in Chile. The group in­
from N.D.," Bill wrote from coming out of college that I was for reflect on the many things I had village like Jacaltengo
cluded eight Notre Dame and two
Jacaltengo on April 10. "I really a long time crippled in dealing with intellectually accepted in college necessitates a large measure of
Saint Mary's graduates and was
enjoyed my four years there. Down the real world." but had not yet spiritually 'ap­faith, which Notre Dame's Father
directed by Professor Walter
here, at times, I think about the Notre Dame students also propriated' into my own life style Dunne once defined to Mike
Langford of the Modern Language 
•good old days'." participate in many volunteer and search," philosophized McCauley as "a willingness to live
Department. Langford also ac­
A Notre Dame education gives programs such as Neighborhood McCauley. in uncertainty without despair."
companied the group to Chile,
Bill something more than Study Help Program, which proves ''The PC certainly was not a As the Peace Corps begins its
supervising the project for two
memories of the 'good old days' to tutors for local schools, C.I.L.A., 'religious' experience, but I did use second decade, Notre Dame
years.

sustain him in his Peace Corps and the Kennedy Foundation. it to develop a deeper appreciation continues to instill courageous work. Notre Dame gave Michael Experiences like these help breed for others and a sense that all young Americans with this faith: __j McCauley, who has just completed An 'idealist' View the concern and committment to people are unified in a search for At the same time, its people, its two years with the Peace Corps in humanistic work which may lead meaning in life," he concluded. traditions, experiences and the South Pacific, something ex­A committment to the Peace students into the Peace Corps, The vast majority of volunteers education provide them with the tra, also. Corps requires more than a sense VISTA, or other related programs. plan to further their education motivation to follow Joe Evans' 
of history, however. after completion of their two-year directive as he quotes William Observer Insight "The advantages of a peculiar An Alternative? stint, says Waddick. Figures have Blake: 'Notre Dame' education in the proven that fifty percent of all "To find the world in a grain of 
These men are only two of the Peace Corps lie in the motivation An increasing number of these volunteers oossess a sand and heaven in a wildflower." hundreds of Notre Dame for going," stated Michael volunteers are students who have graduates who have served in the McCauley <ND 1970). "One must been rejected from graduate Prof. Goerner will receive
Peace Corps since its creation in be partially 'idealistic' I think, to school or have experienced first 1961. The largest "feeder" school ever attempt such a thing in the hand the dearth of jobs incurred by in this recruiting district, ND has first place." the present economic situation. 
Sheedy teaching award 
special Officials agree that idealism is "Rather than sit around, they
always held the interest Dr. Edward A. Goerner, in Chicago before coming to Notre 
and respect of local Peace Corps the major quality characteristic of figure they might as well do Dame. His own
professor of government and in-study of church officials. all volunteers. Waddick, who was something," said Mike Williams, 
ternational studies at the and state, "Peter and Caesar,"
"You meet a completely dif­also involved in the Peace Corps, at the Notre Dame Placement University of Notre Dame, has was published in 1965, and his mostfeels that Notre Dame, as a Bureau. Williams, a former
ferent kind of kid here," a been chosen the 1972 recipient of recent book, an editing of essays on recruiter once remarked to R.J. Catholic university, imparts an volunteer, and third year law the Father Charles E. Sheedy the North Atlantic nations called 
Waddick, Dean of the College of outstanding variety of idealism. student thinks that two years in the Award for excellence in teaching. "Democracy in Crisis: New Arts and letters. Most Notre Dame volunteers base Peace Corps can give an individual A political theorist who joined Challenges to Constitutionaltheir personal philoso(fhy on the the opportunity to challenge
Fifty-nine ND-SMC students the Notre Dame faculty in 1960, Democarcy in tpe Atlantic Area." were different enough to join the high moral values developed himself and discover new Goerner received his un-was published last fall. Peace Corps in 1971. through their background studies lifestyles. dergraduate education in The Sheedy award, named after 
in the humanities, theology and "The Peace Corps is a great 
economics at Notre Dame and the former dean of the Arts and philosophy. challenge and maturing influence
ND Preparation received his M.A. and Ph.D. in Letters College, includes a $1,000Dr. Joe Evans, professor of on people," Walter Langford political science from the honorarium provided by an 
Notre Dame is a university philosophy, has recommended concurred. "The Peace Corps is a 
University of Chicago. His thesis anonymous donor. Previous steeped in pride and tradition. This several former students for Peace great challenge and maturing was done on Rev. John Courtney recipients have been Francis J.
influence on people," Walter

respect for tradition may be partly Corps work. Murray's theories of church. and O'Malley, professor of English,
responsible for the lure the Peace "All of these young men have a Langford concurred. "The state. and Dr. William G. Storey,Corps seems to hold for Notre. Christian personalism about volunteers gets more out of two He taught at Yale University and associate professor of 
them," says Evans. He continues years than any one he helps
Dame students. ND has been the Illinois Institute of Technolo theology. · 
------------------~ 

Student Services presents 








Fri. & Sot 
PARAMOUNT PICtURES PRESENTS 
Ali MacGraw • Ryan O'Neal 

May 5 & 6 8 & 10pm 
AHOWARD G. MINSKY-ARTHUR HILLER Production 
S11tr1ft9 


Eng. Aud.
John Marley &Ray Milland E'RicH sEGAL A'fitHtJR HILLER HiiWARo GMINSKY OAVIii GOLDEN FRANciSLAI "~~,:~~ JAI 
ISOUND TRACK ALBUM AVAILABLE ON PARAMOUNT RECORDS I ~~··-·· ...-·._.M-----. 

Admission 
1.00 





rl-8 
the observer

'-Thur~day, ~~y 4, 1972 \ ~. ----------------~==~--------~---=~~ 
t'\ 

~· C. M . 
\' 
'~ 
~~· 
~ 


be treated "with some deference" in "open" convention. National ChairmanAfter eight major and several minor admittedly a minor candidate, but he has Miami, and his occupancy of a position of Lawrence O'Brien keynoted this when he
Democratic primaries this year, the only decent credentials and considerable power between two big blocs may spoke at the Notre Dame Mock Con­conclusion we can possibly reach is that support in the state party. If he does well in vention. There he trumpeted the openness there is as yet no conclusion. We have seen North Carolina, he intends to enter the guarantee such treatment. 
It is unlikely that any one primary--­of the convention, and said he expected
Maine Senator Edmund Muskie win two, New Jersey primary in a few weeks. 
even Claifornia--will mean victory for that to keep a badly divided party fromthen quit the race entirely. Alabama anyone. Chances are that the party will breaking up into third and fourth parties.
Governor George C. Wallace won one, and Michigan and California continue to split between Humphrey, Apparently, the chairman believes thatcontinues to scare people with respectable And the biggest of the upcoming McGovern, and "the wild card," Wallace. letting people blow off steam will pacifyturnouts in all the primaries he has en­primaries is Michigan, May 16. Here the Places like Michigan will go to Humphrey. them. In any case, the wide-open nature oftered. 
busing issue will receive considerable Maryland and North Carolina will go to the convention will be inserted into theSouth Dakota Senator George McGovern attention from all quarters, and the Wallace, and Nebraska will go to campaign in November, hopefully to thehas come out of nowhere using devastating Wallace blue-collar appeal will be put to McGovern. McGovern may well get Democrats' benefit.
campaign methods to capture two 
the ultimate test, particularly in the California, but this will be offset by A third--and by far the most important­primaries and show well in all others but Detroit area, where he has campaigned Humphrey wins in the non-primary states. element in the convention will be aFlorida. 
considerably so far. The result, when the party reaches the dramatic split of delegate strength. WeMinnesota Senator and former Vice­All the candidates are entered in Miami Convention, could well be chaos. will probably see more than one ballot.
President Hubert Humphrey captured his Michigan, and it figures to be a battle The new "open" convention will be a unless something happens within the nextfirst primary victory in three tries at the between Wallace, McGovern and Hum­confused, factioned convention. With a few weeks. Each ballot will also "close,.
presidency last week in Pennsylvania. He phrey. If Wallace wins, he will go to. the badly divided left wing, and a right wing the convention somewhat, since it willfollowed that with a victory in Indiana convention with a considerable bloc, dedicated to principles the party is not yet emphasize the role of the party boss whoTuesday, and what appears to be a victory possibly as much as 500 votes. If, however, ready to espouse, we may find the bosses-­can deliver his delegation on a late vote.
in Ohio, though all the votes are not yet in. 
he slips between now and May 16, he is like Chicago Mayor Richard Daley-­Mayor Daley, we can recall, holds 81We ought to note, however, as all the party liable to be disappointed with his delegate looking for a compromise--Edward M. votes, despite the convention reforms.
professionals are liable to note, that 
total, which now stands at 75, the sum he Kennedy. These and votes controlled by other bosses neither Indiana nor Ohio gave Humphrey a won in Florida. will become more important as the weekbig margin. Indiana went for the former 
The big step in June is in California, wears on.
vice-president by only a few percentage where all 271 delegate votes go to the Confusion and a Kennedy Draft And the result? As noted above, thispoints, most of the rest going for Wallace. 
winner, Here Humphrey and McGovern primary season may result in theOhio will result in a wide delegate split are rated even, although everyone realizes Kennedy, of course, has repeatedly nomination of Edward M. Kennedy frombetween Humphrey and McGovern, that that can change in a month. denied that he wants the nomination. we the Democratic party, whether he wants it showing that McGovern can indeed draw 
some support from a large industrial state. McGovern has used rock concerts in ought to note there that this is hardly a or not. California, as well as in Ohio, to raise factor. Should the youngest of the Kennedy Humphrey will go to the convention with 
Wallace has been busy sending his money for his million-dollar drive in brothers refuse the call of the party the most votes, with McGovern not far"message," a definitely populist one, California, and such displays of youthful regulars in times of trouble--1972--he can behind. Neigher will be near a majority.
which concentrates on blue-collar workers sensibility are the sort of thing that could hardly expect to get their support when he however. Wallace will get several hundred and far right wing upper class. He has had swing an election for the South Dakota really wants it--1976. In short, when the votes on the first ballot, and will haveconsiderable success even in northern 
senator. party calls a party man such as Kennedy, sufficient strength after that to make himliberal states, but his lack of a recent The Democratic organization in the he must respond positively, or he will not a major force, assuming he does not walkvictory could hurt him in the weeks to state has been divided for several years, get called again. While he would prefer to out in protest over the platform.
come. 
with Mayor Sam Yorty of Los Angeles wait, he may find himself in the position of The regulars and the liberals will not holding down the right wing, while newly­carrying the Democratic standard this deal with Wallace, and thus will be driven Two-Way Street---With Cross-Traffic elected Senator John Tunney is the major November. to deal with themselves. The result is the figure on the l~t. Humphrey will have Some observers have said that Kennedy only man who has escaped from the 
The Democratic party, then, is some difficulty in uniting the organization would be beaten in 1972 and thus he would primary season unscathed. Simply, dangerously fragmented. This division behind him, especially since Tunney en­be worthless in 1976. However, we may Teddy· was somewhat alleviated by the with­dorsed the campaign of Edmund Muskie. find it hard to believe that the emergency Some observers have argued that no drawal of former frontrunner Muskie from leader of a factional party, having m~tter hwo the Democrats put to the test, the list of contenders. Wallace's relative Consequences of a Split sacrificed his personal desires for the he will fail as President Nixon drives to his success in many of the primaries was due party's good, would be dumped upon for second term. O'Brien, however, had a to fragmenting of the liberal vote between After California comes New York, where his efforts four years from now. good point on this matter. He stated that a three major contenders. Now there are predictions at this early date are a bit In short, either Humphrye will make his terrific ferment in the party, with all sides only two, and this won't help Wallace. futile, since so many factors can change. move right now, possibly McGovern can getting a fair hearing, will draw people to However, it sharply divides---more If the current trend continues, one of two make a move---though he has Ies19 grounds the party because it is the only party open sharply than before---the party between conditions will probably prevail in Miami for it--or Kennedy will be the unwilling to all the people. Also, according to the "progressive center" of Humphrey in July. Either Humphrey's limited suc­nominee of the party in November. pollster Samuel Lubbell, the masses this and the "new center" of McGovern. cess in Ohio and Indiana will develop into In looking at the Miami convention, we year care most about the future of the 
~t 
Which brings us to the upcoming full-grown success in Michigan and can expect several things to be prominent. nation, and not so much for the specificprimaries. Today is Tennessee, with California, thus making him the nominee First, we will find an unusual number of issues that won elections in the past. ~ } Wallace the only candidate on the on the first ballot, or the primaries will delegations challenges. This is due to the Given these two observations, perhaps a .,\ preferential poll. He will obviously win continue to s·plit between Humphrey and rule changes that require a cross section--Democrat with a good philosophical (\ that, but the race for delegates may McGovern, with Wallace taking his share as nearly as possible--of the state's outlook--as well as a good practicalfragment the Tennessee delegation. also. Democratic population to represented in program--for the future could beat Nixon' ·~ Saturday is North Carolina, where Terry The result of the latter would be to make the state delegation. Few will have it. in November. This is a definite possibility. r sanford, president of Duke University and Wallace the power broker, since he will The challenges will result in a confused Recall, too, that the polls changed their
\J 

a former governor of the state, takes on have the major portion of the uncommitted convention. Second, we may look to a great tune from August to November of 1968. Six Wallace. This could tell a lot about the delegations_ This, of course, is what amount of political gamesmanship on the months is a long time. Meanwhile, look for 
~ 

state of Wallace's camoai n. Sanford is theAlabama Governor wants. He wants to part of Democrats concernin their Teddy.
\' 

~~~~~--~----~-------------------------------------------------­

\· 
\~'
J', 
$ ,h, -~ 
~ 
\·..
' 
~ 
§ 
l 
,,··] 
~\ 
' 
:~ 
,i': \ •\ : 
~ I 1.. 


FUN/ This Weeken-d II 
Mad Movie Orgy 
Fri. May 5 7: 00 to 2:30 atn Washington Hall 
7Y2 hours of horror films; Our Gang; The Millionaire W ..C. Fields; Mighty Mouse; Zorro; and lots more 
BEACH PARTY 
Sat. ~ay 6 8: 30prn to 12:00 tnid. St. Joe Lake Beach 
Admission: Don't bring any glass containers (please) Spinning the best of the beach will be Kevin O'Neill Big Time D. J. (WSND) Refreshments COME AND HAVE A NITE 0' FUN (icello)!! 
INTRODUCTORY TO NEW SOCIAL COMMISSION KICK OFF WEEKEND :Sponsored by Student Union Social Commission Co Sponsored by Flanner Hall 
~--------------------------------~-------­


G •tt• Thursday, May 4, 1972 the observer 19Fr• rJ )n 111111111111111111111111111111111111111IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItrlTTITTl Iffifll nllilliiillllillillllill11111111111111111 DllllllllllffiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIImflfiiiiJIIUIUUIIIIIIIIU 
The prospect of women living among us 
UIIIIII'''''''IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIILIIIIIIIIJIIIIIII'''m''''lll"'m''''m'''''m''IIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'''III'"'"''''''m''''"''''''''lnrllnnrrurr Specia1 Feature 
So now, when the autumn comes again, I fear that I write these lines as though I Of course it is only sometimes that 
the women will be among us, not as painted dolls with sawdust for a heart who arrive for a weekend with a trunk full of toggery from Saks, Fifth Avenue; sophisticates of the tables down at Maury's or the Winter Carnival at Dar-mouth, who find football childish and Mardi Gras jejune ... not as Hometown Honeys, shy and breathless with love, with beauty that makes the desert places bloom ... not as the young lovelies from the ladies' colleges who arrive on Friday and leave on Sunday, sadder but wiser girls, swearing never to return again, at least not before next weekend ... not as com­muters who arrive each morning from across the Dixie to spend their day among us like roses visiting a briar patch, leaving traces of My Sin to drift across the noontime, lifting their faces like proud chrysanthemums to the afternoon sun, trudging home in the dark when the grotto candles, flaming like the fires of a bivouac, announce the nearness of Our Lady, keeping the night watch over our hours of male, chauvinistic loneliness. 
Come September, and the ladies will be among us: fighting their way through the foodlines to episodes with dysentery; dribbling basketballs, possibly in the topless tradition of the courts behind the bookstore; sharing their weekends with the dudes in the Brooks 'Brothers' suits from the schools of the Eastern Establish­ment; the untouchable property of their own Hometown Honeys back in the tater patches of Idaho. 
BEST BANDS IN TOWN 
-Two Bands a night 
Own something better 
-Dancing 6 nights a week (closed Monday.) 

than a champion. 
-No cover on Tues., W~d., Thurs. 
-Open till 2 a.m. The Mark Ill Triumph Spitfire is a three­
"One stop entertainment center" 


time Divisional winner and a national Cocktail Lounge SCCA racing champion. It would be hard to ask for anything better.
Bowling Billiar.ds 
Except that there is something better: 
Sl.u/a's Jv..te C/ut ~. 
the Mark IV Spitfire. It's everything the Mark Ill is, plus stronger engine bearings, 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD 
synchromesh in all four gears, a new im-
NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 


616/683-4350 

Notre Dame and St. Mary's Students 
ANNOUNCING UNITED AIRLINES PICKUP SCHEDULE 
For shipping your Baggage hoTne this 
•
sprzng. 

Triumph Doesn't Create 
NOTRE DAME: May 10th to 17th; 12 
an Image, it Confirllls One! 
noon to Bpm. Bring your trunks, boxes, etc. to our truck positioned in the WNDU Parking Lot. Agent 
ERVICE 
on duty with supplies to assist you. 

I
ST. MARY'S: May 10 to 17th, May 21st; 12 noon to 6pm at Individual Halls. Please contact your Hall Director 

DODGE CARStTRUCKSI TRIUMPHS 1 DODGE COLT
for· supplies. 
For Information: 232 8241. 

916 E. McKinley, Mishawaka Phone 255-4751 
were a satirist or a silly romantic or a middle-age lecher with a glint of depravity in his eyes--which probably means I am a little bit like a lot of other people here at Notre Dame. A sexual sophisticate or a veteran of the drawing room experience, I am not. Years of living in men's dor­mitories and the male ghettos of the priesthood have left me with a sense of incompleteness which is most vivid when one is dining alone in the City, with the unshared hours of the evening stretched like a wasteland before him. Woman is mystery, warmth, the mind's companion, the body's comfort, the soul's fulfillment, children, home, fireside, gentleness, peace, journey's end, love, salvation, and redemption--but none of these best gifts of God are mine except in a distant, detached way. So sometimes one sleeps, like a Hemingway hero with a light for the night wl)en even God seems very distant. or one causes his companions to carouse until dawn when the sunlight comes, and it is possible to sleep without dreams. One grows selfish and demanding of life, for the creature comforts are what a man indulges in when he is too old to want to cry. In fairness to the priesthood I love, I must say that for some of us, these are the 
battlegounds  through  which  we  must  
struggle  on  our  way  to  fulfillment  in  
Christ.  

I tell you of these battle scars not out of a need for your concern, but because I was asked to say what I feel. As a matter of fact, the wounded soldier }s doing just fine, coeducational life on the South Quad will reach the intensity of metaphysical anguish. Ordinarily, I suppose, the friendships will be more relaxed and casual. Certainly the dilemmas of life at this University are not going to be resolved by the fact that there are girls living in the faded glory of Walsh and Sorin. Acne will still have its outbreaks, and Emil T. will still give his weeklies; the rain will continue to fall, and Mr. Nixon is apt to be reelected in November. But coeducation is a step towards a new life-style at Notre Dame, and the change is happy news to anyone who loves the place. 
I cannot omit from these breath-taking 
, insights a comment addressed to some of the dearest people I know, the children of Notre Dame who live among the spires and recovering nicely, thank you anyway. Am I glad to see women coming to Notre Dame? Is the note of a symphony glad to be sounded in the silver throat of a trumpeter?Ooesthe dance feel happiness at the first, quick turn of the dancer's foot? Incredible as it may seem, a fat, hairless man, grown seedy with age, can un­derstand the problem of a teen-ager, lonely, unsure of himself, anxiously seeking identity, aching with the appetites of love; -because of the human condition doesn't change that much , even with the passing of a great fraction of a century. It was the Creater Himself who furnished therapy for the primaeval isolation, acting on the Spirit uttered insight that it is not good for man to be alone. 

proved suspension system and a hand­some restyling by Ferrari body designer Giovanni Michelotti. 
Ask your Triumph dealer to let you test drive a champion Spitfire. He'll give you his best. 
.IIIIITI.H 
Triumph Spitfire 
~ 
..-vLANC 
across the road. Your beauty and grace and charm and love, shaped by God as though He were a poet composing sonnets in breath and sinew, belong to the life of Notre Dame. You belong, not as flowers blooming in a distant garden whose fragrance drifts like the scent of magnolia carried on the night breeze. You belong to the Notre Dame experience, you are Notre Dame--for me, and I suspect for all of us-­just as much as football is, or the Provost, or lectures in O'Shaughnessy, or the golden Virgin dancing in the sun. The development of Notre Dame from a boys' jungle into a center for life-experiences is part of your developemt. New kinds of awareness await you, as they await us, as St. Mary's loses it image (deserved or noO among the undergraduates as the finishing school for Hard-Hearted Hannah, the vamp of Savannah, Ga. 
Our schools are dedicated to the iden­tical Mother of God who may, these days, seem to have little relevance to either campus. But really, as a Christian, you can't understand much of the mystery of Jesus except in the context of the people around him. A life touched by God, as Christ's was, is an affair of suffering as a consequence of love; and only through death, did resurrection come. A life touched by Christ, as Mary's was, is also an affir of suffering, because the God­touch and the Christ-touch are as one, demanding that the cross be assumed before the Magnificat can be sung. I touch 
(continued on page 151 
-
........ 


.. 
• 

the observer Thursday, May 4, 1972
20 
world 

briefs 
(c)1972 New York Times 

International 
Danang--Lt. Gen. Hoang Xuan Lam, the former northern militar~ region commander, said he resigned because his troops _gave up Quangtrt City without a fight--disobeying his orders to stand and fight. 
Washington--There were rumors in world capitals that the United States and North Vietnam were near an agreement on a broad peace settlement. But the rumors were strenuously denied by the ~ixon Ad­ministration. The settlement reportedly includes a cease-fire and a mutual pullback of troops. 
National 
washington--L. Patrick Gray 3d, an assistant attorne~ ge~eral and long-time personal friend of the President, was name<! actmg dtrector of the Federal Bureau of Investigation by President Ntxon. 
on campus today 
3: 00--lecture, jacob neusner, legal, form-critical and comparative literary aspects of the qumran documents, hayes-healey center. 
4: 00--lecture, ernest eliel, the generation, storage and retrieval of in­formation, conference room, radiation research building. 
8:00--meeting, pre-law society, 123 nieuwland. 
8: 30--musical, sbowboat, o'laughlin auditorium. 
,. 

at notre dame-st. mary's 

Free estimates. 24 hour Phone 233-9466. EXPERT SECRETARIAL SERVICE. 
ANY TYPING DONE 233-0136. 
Two Campus Representatives to sell advertisements in South Bend this summer for National Magazine NutshelL to local merchants to campus organizations. Commissions plus Bonus. Bonus. Call toll free, 800­251 9732. Frank Kilpatrick. 
Wanted: two men for yard work this spring and summer. Call: 289­5446 after 6 pm. 
WILL BUY: working refrigerators, couchs, chests, anything of value. Call Mrs. Cocpe~·, 272-3004. 
Responsible woman over 30, grad student. To house sit, mid-June through mid-August. In exchange for place to live during summer school. Local references. Call 312-324-0043 after 7 pm. 
Wanted: metal file cabinet, used 3-speed bike. Call 232-6796. 
HAPPY DAY CARE CENTRE; Applications are invited for the position of assistant teacher to work mornings from Sept. Must be experienced in working with pre-school children. Call Mrs. Davies 284-4317. 
Wanted to rent for 1 year begin­ning June or July. 4-5 bedroom house near campus. Graduate women. Call 288-8951 or 288-1879, 7 pm to 7:30am. 
~------------------­
FOR RENT 
. Furnished house , 1 story, 3-4 people. 272-6174 till noon, after 4:30. Available May 4, 1972. $140.00 
• 

--· ---------------­
For Sale: twosnowtires and chest of drawers. Bob 8251. -------------------·----­
35 mm Minolta Camera. Reasonable. Call after 6 pm. 259­3573. 
---·----------­
Cannon QL-FT SLR Nikon F SLR Fl.4 300 mm tele, Electric flash. Petri Veratiles, SLR Fl.B. All new, will sacrifice. 233-5328. 
Camera: CANON FTb, like new. 
Call 234-9765 after 5 pm. $195. 
PHOTOGRAPHERS: must sell new camera system. Honey well Spotmatic, telezoom 2x, MAG etc. Call Jerry 8849. 
Real tone stereo: tape deck, AM­FM radio, BSR turntable air suspension speakers. $95. Call 1246. 
STEREOS: at student discount rates almost any brand. You can't afford not to call us if you're buying or thinking of it. Call Tom 1327 or 1318. Mateco Marketing. 
Stereo for sale, masterwork Good condition. $35.00 Call Dave at 7396 or 287-5381 after 5:15pm. 
SONY Stereo Cassette-corder TC­124CS 3 speakers. Hardly used. 233-5308. 
For Sale: portable S-Track stereo tape player wilh AM-FM radio condition. Call John 1642. 
SAVE ON RECORDING TAPE! Cassette, Reel and S-Track; Ampex, BASF, Memorex, Sony or TDK. Call Don 3729. 
Refrigerator: G E big freezer, too big for campus. cheap 8125. 
~--------------------­
Seniors selling furniture: two couches, corner bar, rocking chair, rugs and stero, cushion chair, book case, end tables, curtains, small icebox, dressers, albums etc. Call 1079. 
' J 
~~------·--------­
1970 Fiat 124 .. Sbort Cp, 5-speed, AM-FM, overheard c-ams etc. 233­5328. 
1970 Triumph GT6, Oa,·k Blue, excellent condition. AM-FM radio, Pirrelli Radials, new transmission. Call John 232-4135. 
'49 VW ~g. light blue, 4-speed, 
escellent  condition.  $1195  firm.  
Bill Lavage 259-0225.  
1967  Triumph  TR4,  conv,  wire  

wheels, radial tires, dual exhaust. 48,000 miles. 233-1912. 
Engagement rings, watches, complete line Hallmark rings. Waltham watches. Tremendous savings. 313 Morrissey. 3575. 
Quality Oil and gas filters atwhole sale price 288-7004 or 8908. 
'61 Ct'revy Biscayne, engine, tires and interior in very good con­dition. asking $200. 232-7457 or 233­0551. Ask for Gary. 
1965 Pontiac Tempest Lemans. Good condition. power steering, New brakes. $400. leaving area must sell stove, sofa and chairs. Call 282-1576. 
1969 Fiat 850 Sports Coup, radials, snow tires, priced for quick sale. 233-6059 after 6 pm. 
1971 Yamaha 350 only 2500 miies. Call Jim 234-3236. 
1960 red VW 41.000 good tran­sportation. $150 289-4940. 
NOTICE 
Will work on Volkswagens. 12 years experience. Reasonable call afeer 4 pm . 272-3980 or 272-2765. 

Island spac•. limited to first 70 $5 depositers. Sign up at 432 Zahm till 5-3. beteeen 6-8 pm. Any questions call 1883. 
---------·--------------­
Grow Abroad this summer -a month of carefree travel on your own in Europe -plus four weeks of study in art. music, photography, drama or French. Growth through experience and in­struction . isn't that what it's all about. $695 from New York. . .Call Joe McDonough, campus representative. American In­
ternational Academy, phone 234-­
3465 or 283-7024. 

Student Union charter flights to Europe. 5 departures and returns. All different dates and on sale at the Student Union tic,et office. 11:15-12:45 and 4:00-5:00. 
SUMMER STORAGE: new bldg., 
dry and clean. Will pick up and 
deliver. Mrs. Cooper, 272-3004. 
Parts and Accessories for Im­ported Cars. Foreign Car Parts Co., 215 'Dixieway North {Roseland 272-7187. 
Students-7 day caribbean sailing 
package. Beautiful San Jua, 
Puerto Rico. Sail, s2im, surf, 
snorkle, mountain and Mangrove 
triils. deep sea fishing, fortresses, 
islands. Flamenco dancers and 
Steel bands. All expense apid 
exciting week of sailng and en­
tertainmen! aboard a Pearson 26 
Giberglass •.loop. Only $150 (plus 
air fare). Hurry! Only limited 
space. June 10-June 30. Capt. 
John Ladd, box 5141, San Juan Pr. 
00906 or call 725-0139 {AC 809). 
CONNECTICUT RESIDENTS+ New Haven Club is sponsor:"1g a baggage truck which Will stop in several cities. For infor call Paul 7954 or Jess 3610. 
MCAT OAT: Summer home study review and tstting program for the Medical Dental Admission tests. For information write: . .Graduate Studies Center, Box 386, New York, NY100ll. 
Burke, and Matt Lame the Observer Subscriptions Staff. Thanks tor the timeand. effort Art. tne boss. P, after today's paper is mailed, collect your 
severance pay. 
Barb baby, 
A diamond is yours on returning from Rome, my love Mike {Meek) Walsh. 
Dear official consultant: thanks for the iced tea and help and everything -miss you nextyear 
Ding Bat. 
Tantalus, Happy five-twelfths and eight­elevenths. I'm sorry and I do miss 
you! Te amo Persephone 
Happy Birthday Mark (That's pronounced Cow-an l Hoe-oo Oogie Boogie, R.C., T. E., Buck Colonel, Clide, Loud. 
JaneT. "He entered into the area of festivity and much laughter and there amidst the crowd as a rose, a beautiful girl." The myxtery man 1167. 
Hey Aunt Ween, 1 likeyou eve-n with the hiccups. Your newphew Jimmy 
.. To 118 Lyons, 52f& 801 Flanner and 440 Stanford, $ Thank you, for a very wonderful year. 
"Thanks for your friendships Thanks for the wonderful memories. Thanks for last Friday ni.ght Happy Trails, my love always 
Moose" 
Ann Darling, As our love deepens, I long for another trip to Mixhigan. 
Please?! 
B.J . 
...j 







