-------·--~-------------------------­
-1' / _,.-­

~"-l-'.c-~ 
~:__,,_a7 



Election Special••• 
see pages 3-10 

On The Inside 
Academic council meets today ... page 2 
Irish and Bowling Green split ... page 11 



Vol. VII, No. 42 serving the notre dome -st. mary's community 
Monday, November 6, 1972 


Seymour resigns 
Saint Mary's Student Body President Jean Seymour officially resigned her position Saturday and withdrew in­definitely from school. A spokesman for student government attributed the resignation to "health reasons." 
According to the student governance manual, Student Body Vice President Sue Welte will assume Seymour's post. A school wide election will be held within the next three weeks to choose her successor. Date of the election and nomination procedures will be set Wednesday by the student assembly and announced later this week. 
For the past month Welte had taken over most of Seymour's duties in her absence. She also attended the Board of Regents meeting this weekend, but in the capacity of a non-voting student observer sub­stituting for Seymour. The Saint Mary's administration has not yet received an official resignation statement. 
Seymour last night declined to comment on the move, but indicated that she would Seymour: no comment now, statement release a public statement later this week. forthcoming later this week. 

SMC Board of Regents discusses tenure, nursing 
by Maria Gallagher Saint Mary's Editor 
Decisions on tenure, a proposed nursing program, and The Observer took top priority at the Saint Mary's Board of Regents meeting this weekend. 
Tenure and tenure politicies were discussed and resolved, but details are being withheld pending notification of faculty members involved. An an­nouncement is· expected from the President's office later this week. 
The baccalaureate nursing program proposal was returned to the Education Committee of the Board upon recom­mendation of that committee. 
John J. Hof, assistant to thePresidentand acting chairman of the Planning Com­mittee, released the following statement concerning the move in conjunction with Dr. Edward Henry: 
"Upon the recommendation of the Education Committee of the Board, the Board of Regents unanimously voted to delay consideration pending further study. The program has been under discussion for the last eighteen months by various committees within the college, most recently the Planning Committee. Dr. Hof and Dr. Mary Martucci, R.N., director of nursing research submitted a resolution to 
the Education Committee. The Board of Regents upon recommendation of the Education committee, unanimously ap­proved this resolution which stated that the proposed nursing program will be studied further by the Planning Com­mittee, initially by a special task force with Martucci as chairman." 
The Planning Committee will report and recommend a decision to the President on or about January 1, 1973, and the com­mittee's recommendation will be reviewed for decision by the Executive Board of Regents about mid-January. 
Hof explained that several questions concerning the proposed program remained unanaswered such as the program's financial feasibility, its com­patibility with the goals of the college, whether it will attract enough interested students, whether it will be open to men, its relation to other health fields, and where the students would receive clinical experience. 
Concerning The Observer, the Board agreed that a $2.00 subscription option which would cover both semesters of the year's Observer at St. Mary's be "billed separately" to students. Hof added that:he was "very pleased with the new and refreshing professional character of The Observf'r." 


Last Observer poll tabs McGovern 
1111111111111111111111n111111111111111111111111110llllntmnmnmnmmmmmmnnmllllllllllllltttlllllllllllllllltnmnnmnmnm 
by Jerry Lutkus Editorial Page Editor 

George McGovern has retained his lead over President Richard Nixon in the final Obsf'rver presidential preference poll. However, that lead has been narrowed to one percentage point with McGovern ahead 44.9 percent to 43.9 percent. 
The poll was taken by the Omnicrom Delta Epsilon, the economincs honors fraterntity and it covered a random sample of 226 students--180 at Notre Dame and 66 at SL Mary's: 
The survey was again supervised by Larry Velcheck, the Vice President of the fraternity-
Thf' three polls 

The first Observer poll published Oc­tober 6 showed President Nixon with a commanding 13 point lead, 49.7 percent to 
26.8 percent. The second poll of October 27 had McGovern overcoming the Nixon margin and soring into a 50 percent to 37.5 percent lead. 
The survey which was conducted in the past week turned out to be the closest of the three held. 
It showed that McGovern holds a 5 point lead with Notre Dame registered voters. McGovern edged Nixon 46 percent to 41.1 percent. However, at St. Mary's, Nixon holds a solid lead of 54.5 percent to 40.9 percent. 
This compares closely to the results of the initial Observer survey. In that poll, SMC was also ~lidly behind Nixon, but this time by a 63 percent to 21 percent margin. That 42 percent margin has now been narrowed to 14 percent. 
The Notre Dame results through the past three surveys have fluctuated more than that, however. The first poll showed Nixon by 4 percentage points at Notre Dame. McGovern captured the lead by 13 in the secol'ld poll. Now McGovern's Notre Dame margin has shrunk to that five point lead. 
Class breakdown 

Particularly interesting in the poll is the breakdown by class at Notre Dame. A breakdown of SMC classes is not included because the results proved insignificant. 
Support for McGovern at Notre Dame increases per year of education with Seniors being by far the strongest McGovern group at Notre Dame. 
Nixon support, however, is consistent throughout every class, all of them cir­cling around the 37 percent mark. 
Registered Voters 

The other trend apparent in the poll is the upward movement of registered voters. The first survey showed 89 percent of the students registered to vote. 90 percent were registered in the second survey and the final survey has shown that mark climbing to 91 percent. 
Are you registered to vote? 
NO SMC Total Yes 163 (90.6) 44 (95.7) 207 (91.5) No 17 {9.4) 2 {4.3) 19 {8.5) 
If the election was held tomorrow would you vote for: 
NO--all NO--those 
respondents registeredMcGovern 41.7 46 Nixon 37.2 41.1 Schmitz 
1.7 1.8 Other 1.7 1.8 Undecided 8.3 9.3 Not Voting 9.4 Sample size 180 163 
If the election was held tomorrow would you vote for: 
ND-SMC--all  ND-SMC--those  
McGovern  respondents 41.1  registered 44.9  
Nixon  40.2  43.9  
Schmitz  1.3  1.4  
Other  1.3  1.4  
Undecided  7.5  8.2  
Not Voting  7.5  
Sample Size  226  207  

If the election was held tomorrow would vote for: Freshman Sophomore 
McGovern  31.1  
Nixon  35.6  
Schmitz  
Other  
Undecided  11.1  
Not Voting  22.2  

IIIIIUIUIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIUIUIIHIUUJIW 
40.8 38.8 2 2 8.2 8.2 
SMC--all SMC--those respondents registered 
39.1 52.2 
4.3 46 
40.9 54.5 
4.5 
44 
Notre Dame 
Junior Senior 42.2 53.6 38 36.6 2.2 2.4 2.2 2.4 11.1 2.4 4.4 2.4 
~llllllmDINUUIIUUBDIDIWJDJIWIMUIHBtJIIIIIIIWIIIWUIDII 


Monday, November 6, 1972
the observer

2 
warld 
briefs 

<c> 1972 New York Times 
Washington-Secretary of State William P. Rogers said Sunday that he had "every reason to think" that North Vietnam would agree to resume negotiations in the near future for a final agreement to end the Vietnam war."I am completely satisfied myself that it (the Vietnam war) is near an end," he said. He expressed his views in a television interview. 
Saigon-United States bombers dropped nearly 2.5 million pounds of bombs over South Vietnam and Southern North Vietnam in the past 24 hours, the Saigon command reported. North Vietnamese and Vietcong troops continued to engage in confrontation with South Vietnamese forces as attempts continued to secure territory before the expected cease-fire. 
Washington-According to national public opinion polls, President Nixon stands on the brink of a national sweep of landslide proportions. Both the Gallup and the Harris polls find that Nixon will receive more than 60 per cent of the popular vote. If they are correct, and if about 85 million Americans vote, the President's margin would approach 20 million votes. 
8ft Mll&pU8 today 
2: 30-lecture, peter dembowski, Ia courtoisie and i1 s problems, 147 regina 
4:00-lecture, fr. david burrell, st. augustine's confessions. library auditorium 7:0Q-Iecture, authur pears, flanner pit 7:30-duplicate bridge, rathskellar, basement of Iafortune 
7:30, 8:3Q-slides, national action for research on military-industrial com­plex, Iafortune ballroom 
11:00--radio program, tear n' tell, with special guest john dampeer, wsnd am and fm 



More Faculty Manual talks 
The University Adacemic Council will meet at 3:00 today to continue discussion of revisions of the Faculty Manual. The closed meeting will be held in the Center for Continuing Education. 
A motion by Dr. Stuart McComas to make the council meetings open to the public will be the other major item on today's agenda. McComas is assistant dean for research and special projects. 
The first article of the revised faculty manual to be discussed will be Article III, Section 5, which deals with revisions in the tenure code. 
The revisiOn ·would grant dismissed faculty 12 months notice instead of the 6 months presently received. 
In addition, the new tenure rules 
would abolish normal tenure 
pr oceedings in the law school. 
The revision would permit in­
definite hiring at the associate 
professor or full professor level 
without forcing the law school to 
grant tenure after four years. 
The Academic Council is con­sidering the tenure section out of order because faculty contracts come up for renewal this semester. Resolving the tenure revisions early reduces the workload during contract renewals. 
Traffic Board meets 
by Jim Eder Starr Reporter 

Campus traffic violators-­students, faculty and staff members alike--claiming to have been unjustly ticketed, must now submit a written appeal to the new 
five-man  campus-wide  Traffic  
Appeals Board.  
This  single  appellate  board,  

representing each of the four major groups on campus, is designed to replace all the in­dividual boards that formerly ruled on cases involving members of their own group. 
"The new Traffic Appeals Board eliminates all those lengthy delays and judicial inconsistencies that were prevalent under the old system," commented Student Government Judicial Coordinator Greg Smith. 
Under the new procedure, all appeals are to be filed with the Traffic Violation Bureau within 48 hours of the issuance of the ticket, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. The applicant must provide a written statement ex­plaining the circumstances under which the citation was received and the basis upon which he is appealing. The ticket itself should be attached to this statement. 
The Traffic Violations Bureau is located in Room 105 of the Ad­ministration Building. Office hours are from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. 
All the appeals are then reviewed by Dame Grimmer, chairman of the board. If, in his opinion, the appellant is obviously "guilty" or "not guilty," he will rule accordingly. If, however, there is some doubt in his mind, the case will be brought before th... entire board, at which time the appellant is allowed to make a personal statement. 
Grimmer said that the majority of appeals that he has received so far have been from students who were ticketed for parking in the wrong parking lots or for not displaying their registration decals. 
;o-*::.:;:;:;:;:;:;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;:-:;:~:;:~:~:;:?.~:;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::1~1: 
l 
TIRED OF THE !l~! 

HI-FI RIP-OFF??? 


I go~.i~~::;E;;E~ :~~:·~ I
I I
for a lot LESS MONEY. ~ 232 Stanford Hall, 283-8650 
I 

:<"  Speakers, Stereo Receivers  ~:: ·!<!:  
8-track T~pe Decks,  ~  
Cassette Recorders  f.  

••••••eaanlllld:IIID£811:ig881ita~lmc~;~Jk~~­
..... '\ ·"" 'l,'lo ·"' lo.'-\ 
After the council is finished with the tenure proposals, the revised Faculty Manual will be considered in order. The first article deals with university academic officers. 
The Observer Is published. dally during the college semester ex­cept vacations by-the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. SubsQ"Iptlons may be purchased for • per semester (14 per year) from The Observer. Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. $eeond cl•ss postage paid, Nnre Dame,· Ind. 
46556. 
SKI THE WEST THIS CHRISTMAS 
Utah 
Jan 2-5 3 days all lifts 3 nights lodging choice of Alta or Snowbird-$60.00 
Aspen, Colorado 
Jan. 6-13 7 nights lodging 6 days lifts 
· $103.00-$25.00 deposit by Nov. 15. 
for details contact: Doug Siddoway-234-7245 Fr. Mertensotto 6575 



carrying charge when you use your Campus Shop Account. Pay next year! 

....a...:..:..-_.....,......,,....._..:._________________________________j 
THINK WINTER 

THINK SWEATERS... JACKETS... OUTERCOATS 
THINK: 
REMEMBER: 
you pay no service or 




ELECTION SUPPLEMENT 


The stage is set for an extra-special election 
by Jerry Lutkus breakdown on the central issues and now Editorial Page Editor this chance for an agreement is gone." McGovern asserted that Nixon had only 
Tommorrow's presidential election will "pretended" to seek a settlement of the go into the history books for two obvious Vietnam conflict as part of a re-election reasons and it may reach the books for a strategy. third mark still in the making. 
The campaign which has pitted President In the Beginning Richard Nixon against Democratic hopeful Smator George McGovern is already the McGovern's campaign became firmly most expensive campaign in history. Over rooted in mid-July when he scored a sur­$60 million has been spent far-exceeding the prise victory in the Democratic National 1968 total of $44.2 million ... Convention. It was a big victory over rival 
The second historical mark is that for the Democrats Hubert Humphrey and Edmund first time 18 year olds will be casting ballots Muskie. for a presidential candidate. In years past, At the convention's end, a wave of the election age stood at 21, but by virtue of Democratic discontent hurt McGovern as a constitutional amendment, the young many Democrats felt he strayed too far adults will be joining the 21 and over crowd from the party's traditional stance. at the polling places. Ll'ading the discontent were labor bosses 
Third, a New York Times survey has George Meany and I. W. Abel, the core of indicated that Nixon may carry at least 48 the union support the Democrats usually states on Tuesday. Within the t ealm of enjoy. possibility lies sweep of all 50 states, which McGovern picked Senator Thomas would be the greatest sweep in American Eagleton of Missouri as his running mate. political history. Eagleton scored a deceptively simple 
Presently, the Times survey claims that victory despite a multitude of vice­McGovern holds a solid lead only in the presidential candidates that were District of Columbia. The two states where nominated from the convention floor. the issue is still in question are However, Eagleton's nomination ran into Massachusetts and Wisconsin. All three trouble when it was disclosed that he had total 28 electoral votes. been hospitalized and treated for 
McGovern is in jeopardy of losing even his psychological reasons. The public uproar home state of South Dakota according to was vociferous and media coverage forced Times reporter R. W. Apple who notes that the issue to a head. To complicate the it would be the first time since the campaign problem, columnist Jack Anderson wan­of Adlai Stevenson that this has happened. dered into the fray by publishing a story 
Another poll by David Lawrence for the claiming to have proof that Eagleton had a Chicago Daily News further supports the history of drinking and drunk driving death knell that the Times Survey tolled for charges. Anderson later was forced to with­
McGovern. Lawrence's poll indicates that draw the story because he couldn't produce President Nixon will tally 535 electoral votes sufficient evidence. to three for McGovern, these three coming Despite his claim to be "1000 percent" 
for the District of Columbia. behind the youthful Senator from Missouri, 
All factors point to a popular vote total of on week after the story broke, McGovern between 55 and 60 percent for Nixon. Only in found it necessary to ask Eagleton to step six states does McGovern seem to have any down from the ticket. Eagleton co­other hope outside of D. C., Massachusetts, operated. and Wisconsin. Polls show Nixon holding In his place McGovern put R. Sargent inconclusive leads in California, Michigan, Shriver, the former director of the Peace Oregon, Rhode Island, South Dakota, and Corps. Shriver accepted the post and a West Virginia. Nixon victory in all the other mini-convention of the National Democratic 
states is virtually assured. Convention approved the nomination. All of this could prove quite troublesome Democrahc strategy has made Shriver 
not only for McGovern, but for Cronkite, the "personality" man of the campaign. He Smith, and Chancellor who may have to has stumped for McGovern-shriver in find something to keep the American factories, bars, and ethnic neighborhoodstelevision public interested all Tuesday attempting to draw out the traditional base night and Wednesday morning. of Democratic voting strength. 
The congressional and gubernatorial elections provide the needed drama. There 
Catch Up Politics 

are many too-close-to-call races in the works. 
The Timt>s indicates that the Democrats Sen. George McGovern for the 1972 are likely to retain their margin in the nomination on January 18, 1971. Polls Senate. Presently, they are up 55-45 and showed him far behind prior to the con­only one or two seats are in jeopardy despite vention. The Gallup Poll of Feb. 11, 1972 
a number of close races. showed support for McGovern dropping In the House, the Republicans look to pick from 5 percent to 3 percent. But McGovern 
up 10 to 20 seats, far short of the number turned the trend around and found victory in they require to control that legislative body. Miami in mid-July. In 1962, he won his first victory, getting 
Nixon Pulls and Pushes elected to the Senate by 597 votes after losing in 1960. He won reelection inRepublicans are hoping that a Nixon 1968 by over 30,000 votes.

landslide will pull GOP candidates into office, but for many embattled Republican While in the Senate, McGovern focused office-seekers, this appears to only be a his attention on the war in Vietnam. Along fond hope. with Senator Mark Hatfield of Oregon, he 
During the weekend, Nixon parlayed presented a series of end-the-war amend­some rare campaign appearances into plugs ments. He also worked hard on hunger and for some of these embattled candidates. malnutrition in the United States as The President made stops in Chicago, Chairman of the Senate Select Committee Tulsa, and Providence hoping to give Gov·. on Nutrition and Human Needs. Richard Ogilvie of Illinois, and Senate After Robert Kennedy's death in 1968, candidates Dewy Barlett (Oklahoma) and McGovern announced his candidacy for the John Chafee (Rhode Island) the pre-election Democratic presidential nomination. In the day push that they need. national eye for the first time, McGovern 
Timt>s reporters called the Nixon ex­waged a 16 day campaign which garneredcursion the "longest and most intensive" him 1461/2 votes, not enough for nomination. day of campaigning that the President has He was appointed Chairman of the had since his victory in the Republican Democratic Party's Commission on Partyconvention. Structure and Delegate Selection where he 
Before the Chicago crowd, Nixon said, worked on party reform prior to the 1972 "Rather than having an agreement before convention. an election, we want to have peace for the next generation. I think the American Ignores History of Defeat people want the right kind of an agreement­
peace with honor and not surrender." President Nixon's political career has McGovern in the final weekend before the been a different one. Labeled with a election countered the Nixon statement with "loser's" tag, Nixon bounced back from a charges of "cruel political deception." series of defeats in the early 60's to secure "And there has been no major the Republican nomination in 1968 and breakthrough for peace," McGovern squeeze by Hubert Humphrey to win his four 
claimed. "Instead there has been a fatal year term in the White House. 


INDEX 
POLLING PLACES 
McGovernomics ....................... . page 4 
Notre Dame and St. Mary's student registered in St. Joseph County will have
Why you should vote page 5 
twelve hours to vote on campus tomorrow, reports county voter refistration officials. Polls will be open from 6:00 a.m. to
Congressmen and ..................... page 6 campaign funds 
6:00p.m. all over the county. Notre Dame students will vote in the 
Election Review....................... page 6 
entrance to the University Arts Center, while those of St. Mary's and Holy Cross 
Election night guide ...•..•. . . . .. . . .. page 7 
Junior College will cast their votes in the ..._--------------~ north lounge of Augusta Hall. 
Executive Editor: Don Ruane 
"If a student ·is registered," said one Contributors: Profs. Frank Jones, 
official at the.eounty office, "he will be on 
the registration lists. Therefore, presen­
Bernard NorIing, Donald 
tation of registration cards or any other kind 
Costello 
Staff Writer: Jerry lutkus 
of identification will not be necessary." Layout: Kathy Kelly, Joe Abell, Dan Barrett 
Nixon served in the White House prior to his Presidential victory in 1968. In both 1952 and 1956, he won election to the vice­presidency running on the Eisenhower ticket. In 1960, Nixon was the Republican heir apparent to the Presidency but he lost to Democrat John Kennedy by a mere 119,450 votes. Desptie the close popular vote, Kennedy defeated Nixon 308-219 in electoral votes. 
After the Presidential loss, he attempted to bounce back but was soundly defeated in the California gubernatial race. It was at that juncture that he told the press that they wouldn't have Dick Nixon to kick around anymore. 
Yet, in 1968, Nixon reappered in the leadership of the Republican Party and made his bid for nomination. Overcoming th.e opposition of Governor Nelson Rockefeller of New York and Governor Ronald Reagen of California, Nixon won a second chance. 
Given the second opportunity, Nixon won a hard fought and close campaign to gain the right to enter the White House. Entering the mansion of Pennsylvania Avenue with him was his running mate Spiro Theodore Agnew. Agnew at the time was governor of Maryland. 
Nixon's 1972 convention appearance was a shoe-in. He won all of the conventions first ballot votes save one. That single vote went to California Congressman Pete McCloskey. 
Again Agnew was tabbed to be Nixon's running mate. 
Tommorow the campaig comes to a close. The promise of two mid-summer con­ventions reach fruition. And the American people can exercise their right to vote a man into the White House. 
Is America Becoming Analytical? 
But what do the people vote on? Most political analysts agree that the public votes 
consistently on a candidate's image. But a growing number of politcal scientists are exhibiting their faith in the analytical choice of the American voting populus. They claim that if Americans are reached on particular issues they will respond with intelligent votes. 
This year it seems that this will be the case. The issues in the Presidential Elec­tion are major ones. The split between candidate's views on them are severe. A choice is evident. 
Possibily the major issue of the campaign is the war in Vietnam. Nixon has favored a controlled withdrawal of American fighting troops. During his four years in office. Nixon has withdrawn over 90 percent of th troops. Recent developments include an agreement with the North Vietnamese to end the war. However, the Administration has balked at signing the pact until some problems are ironed out. 
McGovern has pledged to have the troops out of Vietnam 90 days after his election, but with the apparent peace agreement reached, Nixon seems to have taken the fury out of McGovern's major issue. The Senator has countered in the past week with charges of polical deception claiming that Nixon 
(Continued on page 8) 

the observer Monday, November 6, 1972
4 


McGovernomics 

r 
r r 
t 
~ 
by Frank Jones Prof., Economics 

Political elections are rarely unanimous. To explain this, one must assume that different v~ters have different facts, relate the facts differently, or have different goals or values which affect their evaluation of the facts. At best, only the beholden facts are external and objective, the eye of the beholder must relate and evaluate the facts. In what follows, I will provide some economic facts for recent years and an eye's view of these facts. 
President Nixon's inaugural inheritance in 1969 was a very low unemployment of 3.4 percent, a disconcertingly high rate of in­flation of 4.2 percent <the rise in the con­su~er price index during 1968), and a satisfactory real growth rate of 4.6 percent. By a policy of gradualism, a gradual tight~ning o~ monetar:r and fiscal policy, Pres1dent N1xon promised to cure the in­flationary problem without causing an in­crease in unemployment (his economic advisors admitted to the necessity of a modest and short-lived increase in unem­ployment>. And his promise to do this without wage and price controls guaranteed labor and management that their wage and price decisions could be made without government duress. 
gradualism not 
successful~ 

By the summer of 1971 gradualism had not achieved its desired results: unemployment had increased to 6 percent; inflation was proceeding at over a 5 percent rate and real gross national product was declining. With the ~conomy in such dire straits, and the electiOn only Ph years off, President Nixon altered his "game plan" and chose, a reluctant choice for any administration to implement wage and price controls. This program was designed to reduce the rate of inflation to the 2.3 percent range and the unemployment rate to 5 percent by the election. 
As of September the unemployment rate remains at 5.5 percent and the consumer price index has risen at a 3.5 percent annual rate since the Phase II controls and at 4.6 percent during the third quarter of 1972, the worst since Phase II, with the wholesale price in,dex increasing somewhat more quickly, 6 percent during the third quarter. Profits under the wage-price controls surged to a record level in the second quarter of 1972, up 14 percent over the same quarter of the previous year (a recent survey shows them up 15.9 percent for the third quarter>. Meanwhile the recent rise in hourly compensation of nonfarm workers has been averaging less than the increase in their productivity, not a very satisfactory result even if inflation were not eroding their paychecks. The growth of real GNP is now quite high, 5.9 percent in the third quarter, but this is normal coming out of a recession with large excess capacity of capital and an high unemployment rate. The average annual growth rate during Nixon's administration was only 2lf.! percent. 
Remarkably, although large Federal budget deficits have traditionally been associated with prosperity (and the Democratic party>, this prolonged period of high unemployment and the recession of 1970, the first since 1960-61, was ac­complished with budget deficits exceeding '75 billion, more than the combined deficits over the 16 years of the Johnson, Kennedy, and Eisenhower administrations. The deficits were due largely to the low level of tax revenues generated by a depressed economy. 
Here are some facts. I am sure others 
would care to juxtapose them differently to 
make them more palatable to their 
predispositions. How do we evaluate them? 
To isolate the performance of unem­
ployment and inflation under the Nixon 
administration, it is clear that unem­
ployment is a much more serious problem 
than four years ago and inflation possibly 
somewhat less of a problem, a not un­
familiar tradeoff in economics. Could a 
better economic policy have achieved the 
present level of inflation with lower 
unemployment? Since the present state of 
macroeconomics policy is such that it is 
more of an art and less of a science than 
most economists care to admit (our policy 
prescriptions and the efficacy of them 
unfortunately make it obvious), 
unequivocal answers to such a question can 
not be given. Many economists think that an 
earlier implementation of wage-price 
controls would have obviated a recession to 
qure inflation. Many believe that when the 
(l)otrols were finally implemented they were superfluous since the recessionary forces in the economy were already stemming the inflation. Other economists are against any utilization of wage-price controls beca4se of the inefficiencies that 
result from pr1ces and wages set by dictate. 
It can be as_ked, however, whether the actual trade of mcreased unemployment for lower inflation was a "good" trade. Over two million more workers are unemployed ~han when President Nixon was maugurated, a neither small nor short-lived phenomenon. The total number of unem­ployed is now about 5 million. The recession, the related unemployment and loss in in­come is also a basic cause for the increase in th_e number of families in poverty during the N1xon administration. The number of Americans in families with income below ~he poverty line fell steadily from 40 million m 1960 to 24.3 million in 1969 and then in­c_reased in ~970 and 1971 by 1.5 million, the first such mcrease since 1959 when the ~igures began to be tabulated. Does this mcrease of two million unemployed 
compensate for the decreases in the con­sumer price index from 4.2 percent in 1968 <or 5.4 percent in 1969) to the present 3.5 percent? Each voter will have to make this decision. I do not think it does. 
Several issues on which there are sub­stantial differences between the Nixon performance and proposals and the McGovern proposals, and on which each voter must evaluate these differences in in terms of his values must also be discussed. 
The_ Nixon administration apparently associates the U.S. economy's potential with an unemployment rate of 5 percent or a bit below. For comparison, the unemployment rate was less than the 4 percent Kennedy­Johnson goal from 1966 through 1969. The present administration minimizes today's unemployment rate of 5.5 percent by saying that less than 3 percent of the adult married males are unemployed and that a rising proportion of teenagers and women are unemployed. Granted that the financial pressures on teenagers and married women are often different than those on married males, it still seems glib to dismiss these categories of unemployment at a time when we are designing programs to instill work habits in those who are not accustomed to being in the labor force, and setting quotas for female participation in some oc­cupations. There is also a creditable argument that the official unemployment rate unde_restimates the true problem because 1t desregards "discouraged ':"or~ers'' who have desp~ired of looking for a Job m a soft labor marker and are consequently not officially counted as 
unemployed. 


the trade-off 
What is at stake in this difference between unemployment targets of 4 percent and 5 p~r~ent? Simply $35 billion of GNP, $10 b1lhon of Federal tax revenue and jobs to one million people, especially the poor many of whom first became members of th~ labor force, at some expense, during the 1960's. 
How will McGovern achieve his target of 4 percent unemployment? McGovern's program centers on the best answer to welfare being work and the best job in­centi":e being a job opening. The main technu~~e ~or pro":iding more job op­portunities m the pnvate enterprise would be _an expans~onary monetary and fiscal pohcy. And 1f an eligible unemployed Worker spent a reasonable time un­~ucce_ssfully searching for a job 
m pr1vate enterprise, he would be eligible for a new job in a public em­ployment program. <Only last week the National Urban Coalition called for · an expansion of a Public Employment Program, which has been effective that liberal Democrats in Congress pushed' on a reluctant Nixon administration.) 
Expansio~ary fiscal and monetary policy to expand JOb opportunities in the private enterprise is the key to this program. Vigilance will consequently have to be exercised to assume that inflation does not accelerate anew. McGovern would not declare open season on wages and prices as President Nixon did in 1969. The philosophy of the McGovern program of wage-price restraints-the details of which he has pledged to work out in cooperation with lab_or, b_usiness, and consumer represen­tatives--Is to let the firces of competition regulate the vast majority of prices and wages, but to have the government serve as 
a. ~urrogate for those forces, as a very VISible persuader, in areas where com­petition is not an effective policeman. Every effort would be made to iron out conflicts b~tween the public and private interests Without resort to sanctions. The rollback power would serve as the hidden persuader t~ be. activated only in cases of flagrant VIolatiOns. In the longer run, McGovern would pursue greater enforcement of the antitrust s~atute~ to broaden the scope of the economy m wh1ch competition is an ef­fective force. There are indication that Nixon, on the other hand, would relax an­titrust laws, as U.S. companies could compete in world markets. 
McGovern is also committed to a thorough program of tax reform based on the premise that money made by money should be taxed at the same rate as money made by men. Loopholes in the tax code provide advantages to high income in­dividuals and firms. Some 112 Americans with annual incomes of over $200,000 paid zero federal income taxes in 1970 despite the heralded tax reform of 1969 and the new ~inimum tax of 10 percent imposed at that hme. Taxpayers with incomes of $200 000 pay an effective tax rate of 30 percent, 'the same as people with incomes over $1 million. The ceiling 70 percent tax rate is irrelevant to high income peopoe. The personal exdmptions McGovern proposes to rel!love.are briefly: lower taxes on capital gams; mterest on municipal bonds (this exemption costs the federal government more than it benefits the municipal government) -McGovern would replace it ~Y a federal subsidy of 50 percent of the mterest payments by municipalities; the tax shelt_er for . farm losses where by the wealthy mvest m farm properties and use deductions available to farmers to offset high bracket non-farm income--McGovern proposes preventing farm losses in excess of $15,000 from being deducted against non­farm mcome_; revising the death and gift taxes, _makmg them progrdssive, but exemptmg bequests for a spouse. 
The tax code for business would also be revised. In a July, 1972 report Congressman 
A. Vanik <D-Ohio) reported to the House that the profitable firms among the 100 larg_est corporations were paying an ef­fective t~x rate of 26.9 percent in 1969, 25.8 percent m 1970, and 24.4 percent in 1971 and t~is 26_.9 percent rate for the corporate giants m 1969 compares with the 37 percent ayerage tax rate paid by all corporations. Smce 1954 the fraction of all Federal tax revenue paid by corporations has declined uniformly from 30 percent to under 20 percent now. A long list of tax breaks has eroded this source of revenue and probided advantages to large businesses. McGovern proposes to repeal the excell depletion allowances on oil, repeal the accelerated depreciation writeoff of businesses, and to remove tax breaks to exporting firms and to repeal special treatment on in~ome earned abroad. 
With these reforms, McGovern could reduce the entire rate schedule for personal mcome from the present maximum of 70 percent to a maximum of 48 percent. This would increase work incentives for those in upper income barckets (if any were paying the high marginal rates initially). Removing the number of loopholes would also make tax reporting less complicated, cumbersome, and expensive. Even with these lower rates, reforms will save the government an estimated $22 billion in revenues. 

Fifteen billion of this would be provided to local governments to pay for educational expenses, the largest expense at this level thu_s enab~ing them to grant property ta~ rehfe. Th1s would be a more equitavle way to grant property tax relief than relying on the value added tax which falls more heavi~y on the poor, as has been broached by the N1xon administration. 
Given a need for a certain tax revenue deciding whom to tax is a crucial problem.' A loophole for one person leads to an in­creased tax bill for another. McGovern's propo~als lead to a more equitable system in that It removes privileges which are availab~e only to a small segment of the populatiOn. Whether this system is overall "~etter" again must be decided by each for himself. And similarly in evaluating govefnment expenditures. 

saving $30 billion 

McGovern proposes cutting back the defense budget by $10 billion per year for the next three years, saving $30 billion. He would accomplish this by withdrawal from Southeast Asia, reduction of troops in Europe, and stopping of such military ar­mament programs as the Trident sub­marine and the Safeguard missile system. Thes~ . reductions are not arbitrary and capricious but explicit and considered as elaborated in the Congressional Record Jan_uary 24, 1972. This program is not designed to permit the U.S. to become a second-rate power, but to reduce waste replication, and excesses, with a~ awareness that there is a tradeoff between defense expenditures and important domestic expenditures. This proposal includes aid to displaced 
workers in defense industries, including refraining and re-employment in such pressing areas as urban transportation a~d pollution control. Under President Nixon. ~efense expenditures have been 
decr_easmg as a fraction of GNP but des~1te the fact that Viet Nam spending dech~ed by about $15 billion since 1969, the s1ze of the defense budget remains roughly the same. President Nixon has rec_ently si~ned a record defense budget while be~omg education and pollution control bills as inflationary. 
McGovern's first approach to welfare as mentioned above, is to promote work' by restoring high level of employment. McGovern's public employment program would further reduce the welfare rolls. And since not all the poor are able to work, McGovern would expand the Social Security program to include all the aged, blind, and disabled, with minimum payments of $150 per month. These job creation and social security proposal are expected to reduce the welfare rolls by 30 percent, in contrast to the increase in the number of families on AFDC from 1.5 million in 1968 to 2.9 million in 1972 under Nixon. 
And for a .family headed by a person "unable to work," a national standard will be set, $4,000 for a family of four. Such a new standard will increase benefits in about 30 states, leaving unaffected the benefit levels in the remaining states where s~an_dards are already above the proposed n1m1mum. The efefct will be to more nearly equalize aid to the poor regardless of their location, reducing the present artificial incertives to migrate (from Mississippi to New York for example). The federal government would finance the cost of this program. 
The total cost of these welfare proposals would be $14 billion. To summarize the b~l~nce sheet, this cost along with the $15 b1lhon for educational support tonlocal governments would be more than covered by the $22 billion from tax reform and $30 billion from the defense budget (after three years), leaving room in the budget for other domestic proposals. • 
President Nixon's Family Assistance Program was in many ways a promising approach to welfare. It included an income guarantee of $2,400 for a family of four. But as the Senate Finance Committee observed there was a gross inconsistency between it~ stated objective of providing greater work 
(continued on page 6) 

------------~---­

---~------------------------~~--------------~-----------------­
. 
Monday, November 6, 1972 the observer 
5 


McGovern will give needed moral leadership 


Nixon has realistic defense & foreign pol icy 
Why I'm for George McGovern by Donald P. Costello Director of Undergraduate Studies Department of English 
Last night my wife and I were walking down Wayne Street with Bill and Elaine Storey, just after seeing Kurt Vonnegut's Slaughterhouse 5. We were talking about guilt. We tried to remember who it was who incinerated those tens of thousands of civilian refugees in Dresden, or was it hundreds of thousands, maybe a million-! never could conceive of such big numbers, even if each single component of the big number was not a component but a person with burning flesh, loved by other persons who would cry at his death. So who was guilty? We decided that it was the English. But then we looked at each other and knew that there was something real in bigger guilt, and that Auschwitz had succeeded The Crusades, and that Hiroshima had suc­ceeded Dresden, and that napalm had succeeded fire-bombs, and that smart 
bombs had succeeded V-2 rockets. 
All nations in the past are guilty; but can nations be guilty? And is it Nixon who is guilty because a million people--or is it hundreds of thousands?--have been fried, blown-apart, perforated in Viet Nam since he took office? Or is it the people who elected him who are guilty? Or the people who will vote for him agaim? Or me because I didn't join those brave Notre Dame student-friends who are now in jail for speaking and and acting their moral outrage at innocent people being put to flame? I don't know. And I'm tired of such questions. And everything begins to sound like partisan propaganda in a long election year. especially when I have classes to 
prepare for tomorrowand when I remember the. good old American advice of Slaughtl'rhouse 5 to remember the good things and to forget the bad. So to hell with it. 
And then we passed the new South Bend Federal Savings and Loan Association and Elaine laughed at the plastic grass, and Bill said how much preferable good old honest concrete would be, and Christine couldn't believe that even the gravel was fake until she kicked it and it didn't budge. And we all looked across the street and saw Richard Nixon smiling down on his world. The plastic soul. The natural victimized to the efficient. The Republican Convention in­stead of the Democratic. The issue-hidden campaign glossed over by the image-creating TV commercials. Not fertile black soil for the George McGovern whom we had loved and admired for years, the person in the personless society. The man who speaks of guilt and responsibility and morality in a plastic world that has lost its soul, its in­nicence, and its interest. 
We were simply four McGovernites· 

walking down a deserted South Bend downtown street. Nixon didn't put ill that plastic grass, and if we weren't all academic intellectuals who live--in the world of symbol, perhaps we wouldn't be tempted to connect Nixon with the fact that America has acql'ired a plastic souL But it has. And he is. And we are de~rate for moral leadership. We can't get it from a political beast who does noJ live on the plane of symbol, let alone on the plane of moral values. Listen to "The President's" words sometime. <Notice that his person has so disappeared within the packaging that even his name has been blocked out of the campaign.) He talks of peace "with honor." 
He means saving face instead of saving 

lives. He means keeping an eye on history 
instead of on human suffering. 
Arrogance of Power 
Listen to the cast of mind, quite beyond 
the specific acts, from the ancient history of 
faking pictures against Helen Gahagan 
Douglas to the current espionage and 
burglary, the cast of mind which warns 
against crime in the streets but not against 
political crime that erodes the whole 
electoral system. Listen to the arrogance of 
power: the demand that the "opinion 
leaders" agree with him on the "necessity 
to stand by the President of the United 
States when he makes a terribly difficult, 
potentially unpopular decision," like 
widening the war which he had pledged to 
end, and like dropping more bombs on the 
moon-cratered surface of North Viet Nam 
since he took office than were dropped in all 
of World War II, including Dresden. What 
goes on in the mind and attitude of a manwho ourselves to something more noble than 

'nominates G. Harrold Carswell for the ''I'm alright, Jack." Supreme Court? Behind every issue is the One of the jo~s ?f the President must be cast of mind. The mind that appeals to self-moral leadership; It can come from no other interest, not to ideals. The mind that tells source these days. We have not had it for the mass of Americans to forget the poor--many years, and our soul, our spirit, our the poor blacks, the poor nations. The mind aspirations, ?Ur ?etter ~elves, ~ri.ft aw~y that vetoes social legislation. The mind that mto war-gmlt, m racial suspiCions, m 
Norman Mailer has coined "the Einstein of the mediocre and the inert." The Reason 
What do we do when a nation has lost its soul? Like you would do or I would do if we came to the consciousness that we had lost our personal soul, we ought to try to find it again. Where? In George McGovern. The Observer has asked me to tell why I am supporting George McGovern. That's the single biggest reason: for moral leader­ship. He is the thoroughly decent man. His opponents grant him that. He has com­passion and maybe can bring our sleeping consciences back to compassion. Maybe America can be turned around, back to its ancient ideals, "back home" as that eloquent acceptance speech of McGovern's put it so insistantly. 
Prophetic voices are sometimes strident, sometimes corny, oftend tiresome, never comfortable. It's hard to listen to George McGovern because America is tired of ideals, which we have betrayed in a vicious war that has corroded us into self-hatred, no matter how some bunting-clad men­tali ties may bluster in defense of our in­terference and bombings and minings. It's hard to listen to George McGovern because his campaign has been honest instead of skillful, and in a cellophane-wrapped, one-minute commercial, antiseptic world, fumbling somehow seems less forgivable than corruption. 
It's hard to remeber that a persistent, and dominant, and effective Senator certainly has the skills and the experience to be a creative and competent President even though he has not neatly packaged the superficial skills to run a knockout cam­paign. It's hard to listen to George McGovern because his voice is high and not powerful, because he is not pre-packaged, because he has neither chzisma nor machismo, and we'd rather laugh at him for not coming across as powerfully as a Pepsi ad, than listen to his lovely vision of what we could all be~ .hwo we could all fin~ ?Ur personal political souls by recommitting economic worry, and in a most frightening insularity wht says it's time to look after number one. 
Why? Because I'm ... 
I'm supporting George McGovern because in a country sick with cynicism his proposals tell us how to keep the faith. 
I'm supporting George McGovern because I'm an American ehthnic. My name ends with a vowel. All four of my European grandparents came to America because they were hungry and because they they had ideals. Not a WASP among them, they had a hard time. This is corny talk, but they were not corny people. And they shared what they had. Are we too far gone into selfishness that we can no longer share? 
Think of the contrasting political attitudes: Big Business versus the little guy. George McGovern might be able to teach us to share again. Socialism? Well, at least social. 
inued on 
WHY VOTE FOR NIXON IN 1972? by Bl'rnard Norling Chairman. Department of History 

Seldom, if ever, does the ordinary citizen have an opportunity to vote for a candidate whom he admires without resevation. All candidates have some deficiencies. Most have serious deficiencies. Thus most presidential elections invQlve trying to choose the better of two uninspiring alternatives. This election is no exception. 
Richard  Nixon's  domestic  ac­ 
complishments,  while  real,  have  been  
modest  and  his  personality  has  never  

thrilled millions. George McGovern arouses paroxsyms of joy chiefly among congenital radicals and malcontents, some of the academic community and, possibly, the North Vietnamese'. Pollsters have uniformly reported that in this strangest of Presidential races apathy is rampant. 

Domestically, President Nixon has im­posed wage and price controls, taken us off the gold standard, talked vaguely of a guaranteed annual wage, and plunged the nation some $70,000,000,000 further ,n debt. The last is a mere continuation of the rake's progress that has characterized every Administration, Democrat or Republican, since 1932. That for forty years neither politicians ·. nor the voting public have seriously resisted this suicidal course raises serious questions about our national honesty and collective self-control; indeed about the future of all democratic government. Against this historical background, one 
should prefer Nixon to McGovern mostly because the Senator would probably race faster and more enthusiastically down this road toward financial and ethical bankruptcy. 
Other domestic accomplishments of the 
Nixon Administration are more impressive. 
Most important, on the Supreme Court four 
social architects have been replaced by 
judges. A less obvious but no less useful 
service to the nation has been a general 
toning down of the utopian talk in which 
Lyndon Johnson habitually wallowed. When 
President Johnson had a compulsion to 
indulge in incessant predictions of 
everlasting peace, the abolition of poverty, 
the end of racial animosity, or some other 
marvel if only enough laws were passed, 
programs invented, and money wasted. 
Irresponsible verbiage of this genre is 
alway~ harmfulto a nation since it constantly 
arouses expectations which can never be 
fulfilled. This leaves in its wake millions of 
people who are disappointed, disillusioned, 
resentful, and increasingly unwilling to 
support more mode!lt objectives which are 
attainable. One of the best deeds fo 
President-Nixon has been to reduce (Alas! 
not eliminate) this relentless verbal 
overkill. 
Defense and ForeiJ!n Affairs 
For a great Power in the Nuclear Age the 
management of national defense and the 
conduct of foreign policy is necessarily of 
vastly greater importance than any 
domestic issue. Only defense and foreign 
affairs immediately and directly involve the 
very existence of the whole society. It is in 
this area that the difference between 
Richard Nixon and George McGovern is 
most pronounced, and the superiority of Nixon most evident. Whether standing by Israel against Russia's Arab clients in the Middle East, journeying to Moscow and Peking to regularize relations with two hostile Great Powers and thereby improve somewhat our capacity for diplomatic maneuver between them, or winding down a Southeast Asian conflict which we were unwise to enter and unwilling to win, the President has shown himself to be cool and restrained, yet determined and realistic. Senator McGovern, by contrast, has proclaimed himself willing to crawl on his belly to Hanoi to beg for peace. He overrates the spinelessness of his countrymen. No self respecting people could elect such a man to lead them. It was the McGoverns of the 1930's in England and France who slashed defense budgets, declared that they would not fight for King and Country, and told everyone that Hitler did not mean what he said. In the United States their ilk cut military appropriations, passed neutrality legislation, and assumed an attitude of sour disdain towards the rest of the world. The result is history. Ifgreat nations follow such cretinous "leaders" in the Nuclear Age they will be doomed, for no longer do we have years in which to repair the results of negligence. 
Indeed, the most pressing reason for voting for Richard Nixon this year is that the alternative is George McGovern. What can be said for a Presidential candidate who does not appear to be aware of the simplest and most fundamental facts of international life, who does not understand that powerful enemy states are restrained only by the threat of superior force? Does he not know that the Communist Great Powers are dedicated to our ultimate destruction; that in the words of the late President Kennedy, "We have little reason to take comfort from the fact that they disagree chiefly in how to go about it?" Has he not heard of the Russian occupation of East Central Europe at the end of World War II? How does he suppose Russia was prevented from taking Greece, Turkey, and Azerbaijan at the end of that war? Who does he suppose incited the North Koreans to attack South Koreain 1950? Who entered that war in 1951 to save the North Koreans from defeat? Who repressed libertarian movement in Hungary in 1956 and in Czechoslovakia in 1967? Who has for years supplied the North Vietnamese in­vaders of South Vietnam? Who has sup­ported Castro for twelve years? Whose tanks, artillery, planes and advisors are scattered all over the Middle East now, working fervishing to undermine the state of Israel; and by indirection, American in­fluence in the whole area? In foreign affairs Senator McGovern would have been a worthy colleague of Ethelred the Unready, Lord North, or, more recently, Neville Chamberlain. 

On domestic issues it is difficult to be critical of the Democratic nominee since it is close to impossible to discover what his real beliefs are. Many months ago he assumed "advanced" positions on such subjects as abortion, legalization of marijuana, treatment of draft evaders and military deserters, tax policies, and a guaranteed annual income. Once the Democratic nomination was secured, however, he realized the limited electoral appeal of these stances. He has been watering them down or explaining them away ever since.. His economic program, in particular, has undergone so many revisions that the Senator himself probably has little idea what he would attempt should he be elected. 
The most ludicrous aspect of this cam­paign has been the spectacle of McGovern, the great man of "principle" who promised to campaign on the "issues," and to elevate the whole moral tone of American life in the process, spewing forth one wild charge after another in a vain endeavor to discover something that will prove electorally usuable, all the while deluging President Nixon with personal abuse. Particularly amusin'~ has been his synthetic in­dignation about Republican "scandals" such as the Watergate affair. Of course, a considerable amount of fiscal and electoral skullduggery has taken place during the Nixon Administration. But does Senator McGovern think this is unique in the annals of politics? Has he never heard of the Teapot Dome scandal, the deeds of Representative Andrew May in the Roosevelt Ad­ministration, General Harry Vaughan's mink coats in the Truman years, Sherman Adams and vicuna coats under Eisenhower, or Bobby Baker and Nathan Voloshin in the Johnson Administration? 
(Continued on page 10) 

Carl Albert 

Election Review
I 
r 
I 
r 
r r 
r 
~ 
r 
r 


Nixon on brink of sweep 
by R. W. Apple Jr. <C< 1972 New York Times 

Washington, Nov. 5-With only 36 hours remaining until the voting booths open, the national public opinion surveys reported tonight that President Nixon stood on the brink of a national sweep of landslide proportions. 
Three months of arduous post-eonvention campaigning by Sen. George McGovern of South Dakota, the Democratic nominee, appeared to have gained him little. From the moment when his views came under attack in the California primary, and more emphatically since the controversy over his original running mate, Sen. Thomas F. Eagleton, McGovern himself has been the key issue. Even as he made a final foray into New York City tonight, he remained on the defensive. . 
In their final surveys, based on m­terviewing completed yesterday, both the Gallup and Harris polls showed Nixon with more than 60 percent of the popular vote. It they are correct, and about 85 million Americans cast ballots, the President's margin wojld approach 20 million votes. 
The Gallup poll, which has erred by less than 2 percent in presidential races since 1948, gave Nixon 61 percent, McGovern 35 and other candidates 1, with 3 percent un­decided. It was based on "secret ballots" cast by 3,550 persons in 350 precincts, poll officials said. 
With the undecideds allocated, the major­
party split came to 62-38-a 24-point _dif­
ference. That is the second largest fmal 
spread the poll has shown since it~ incpetion 
in 1936, exceeded only by a 28-pomt spread 
in 1964. 
In the last previous Gallup survey, Nixon held a 23-point lead. Since then he has gained ground in the South, where he now has more than 70 percent of the vote, but lost a bit elsewhere. 
The Harris poll reached an almost 
identical conclusion, reporting 59 percent 
for Nixon and 25 percent for McGovern, with 
6 percent still undecided. ~ith the un­
decided voters excluded, the ftgures were 
61-39-a spread of 22 percentage points. 
Last-minute newspaper polls in key 
states, which were not taken in 1948 when 
the national polls were wrong, indicated 
that the electoral vote was likely to be as 
lopsided as the popular vote. 
Only in Massachusetts, where the Boston 
Globe's final survey gave McGovern a 49­
to39 per cent lead, did local polls indicate a 
likely divergence from the national pattern. 
There were no newspaper polls in 
Wisconisn, where McGovern is also given a 
chance. 
In Michigan, the Detroit News gave the 
President a 49-to 4.2 advantage, his smallest 
in the eight largest stat.. In California, the 
field poll gave Nixona 14-point, margin. In 
Illinois, the Chicago Sun-Times poll !JB.ve a 
20-point spread. In New York, The Daily 
News straw poll gives the President 62 
points to 38 for McGovern. 
The picture in smaller states was not 
vastly different. The Minneapolis Tribune's 
last survey, for example, showed Nixon 
slipping slightly, but McGovern still lagging 
by 17 percentage points in the state where 
liberals are popular. 
Finally, the New York Times -
Yankelovich survey of 16 key states con­
-----~~--­
November 6, 1972 

Congressmen amass large treasuries showing influence in legislation, politics 
b D "d E R b 
~C>8~1 y :s~~ aum 
ew or Imes 
Washington, Nov. 4--Many influential members of Congress who are running for re-election this year without significant opposition have nonetheless amassed sizable campaign treasuries. 
Some of these men have spent much of their money on easy primary races or on campaign organizations that were set up before it was clear that they would have no opponent. 
Others have passed along a portion of their contributions to other candidates who are in contested races. 
But most of these powerful legislators apparently have set aside the bulk of their contributions for use in some future cam­paigns when the money might be needed. 
The fact that these men who are running unopposed or against feeble opposition could raise so much money is testimony to their influence on legislation and in political affairs. Many of them have far larger campaign chests than junior members of the House who are in tough races for re­election. 
firms McGovern's nationwide weakness. 
But the election seems likely to product the greatest amount of ticket-splitting in American political history, with the probable consequence of continuing Democratic control of both houses of Congress and no great change in the pattern of governorships. 
Professional entered two caveats, however, to those general conclusions: First, there is an unusually large number of close senatorial contests, and therefore even a marginal coattail effect could be significant; and, second, because of mechanical difficuly with ballots and voting machines, fewer persons actually split tickets than tell pollsters they will. 
The Republicans need a gain of five seats to give them control of the Senate; such a gain of five seats to give them control of the Senate; such a gain would give each party 50 seats, and Vice President Agnew could then cast the deciding vote, presuming that he and Nixon are re-elected. 
About nine Democratic candidates, many of whom are trying to hold seats for which incumbents are not running, appear to be in some jeopardy: Claiborne Pell in Rhode Island; Sam Nun in Georgia; Rep. Nick Califianakis in North Carolina, running for the seat of B. Everett Jordan; Rep. Ed Edmondson in Oklahoma, running for the seat of Fred Harris; Jack Daniels in New Mexico, drunning for the seat of Clinton P. Anderson; and to a lesser degree, William Spong in Virginia, John J. Sparkman in Alabama, Thomas J. Mcintyre in New Hampshire and Bennett Johnston ii Louisianna, running for the seat of the latt Alan Ellender. 
Among Republican nominees, about seven seem to have problems: Robert Hirsch in South Dakodta, running for the seat of Karl Mundt; Louie B. Nunn in Kentucky, running for the seat of John Sherman Cooper, and to a lesser degree Jack Miller in Iowa, J. Caleb Boggs in Delaware, John Tower in Texas, Robert Griffin in Michigan and Rep. James McClure, running for the seat of Lynn Jordan. 
Republican and Democratic experts in 
Washington concurred today in the 
assessment of a New York Tiems survey 
yesterday that the shift was not likely to 
exceed two seats to the Republicans. 
In the House, Republican gains seem 
probable in the range of 10 to 20 seats. Nixon 
may help his party pick up such marginal 
Democratic seats as those of Reps. Teno 
Roncalio of Whoming, James Hanley of New 
York, William Cotter of Conneticut and W. 
R. Hull in Missouri. 
But Democrats in other districts appear to 
be breasting the Nixon Tide. A somewhat 
melodramatic example is in Utah, where 
polls by the Deseret News give Nixona 48­
point spread, Democl.!atic Gov. Calvin L. 
Rampton a 36-point edge and democratic 
congressional candidate Wayne Owens, a 
former aide to Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, a 
4-point margin. 
Among the Governors' races, the two 
most intriguing involve potential future 
presidential nominees, Gov. Richa,rd 
. Ogilvie, a Republican against Daniel Walker, in Illinois, and Gov. Arch A. Moore, Jr., also a Republican, against John D. Rockefeller IV, in West Virginia. Both are considered bery close. 
Au .ncumoeuL Senators who are running for re-election have some opposition. There are some, however, like James 0. Eastland, D-Miss., Chairman of the Judiciary Com­mittee, who raised large amounts to campaign against an opponent who posed no threat. 
Rep. Hale Boggs of Louisiana, the House Majority Leader,whoseplanewas lost over Alaska last month, was able to raise more than $100,000. 
Boggs spent about $24,000 this year on a primary race in which he had token op­position and won with 84 percent of the vote. With no opposition in the general election, the rest of his money has gone unspent, according to reports he filedjwith the clerk of the House. 
Most of Bogg's campaign chest was raised before the new financial disclosure law went into effect April 7, and, thus, the donors have not been reported. 
But, among those who contributed to his campaign after April 7 were the Chairman of the International Business Machines Corp., the President of the Kennecott Copper Corp., and the President and nine Vice Presidents of Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Corp. 
To take another example, Rep. AI Ullman of Oregon, the second ranking Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, raised more than 50,000 this year, and, having no opponent in either the primary or the general election, he spent only about $5,000. 
The Ways and Means Committee has jurisdiction over all tax and trade legislation. Ullman's contributions came from both business and labor, most of it as a result of two fund-raising dinners early in the year. 
Ullman said that he wrote to all of his donors in August when it became apparent that he would have no opposition and offered to return the money, but, he said, there were no takers. 
Ullman said he would keep most of the money in a bank account and would use it to keep his name before his constituents and to campaign two years from now. 
This was the first time that Ullman's seat had not been contested, and he suggested that his large war chest may have been one of the reasons that no one has been willing to battle against him. 
The Speaker of the House, Carl Albert of Oklahoma, and the House Republican Leader, Gerald R. Ford of Michigan, have both amassed large campaign funds even though they have no significant opposition. 
Albert, who won with 84 percent of the vote in a primary contest and who has no general election opponent, raised about $40,000 and spent less than $7,000. Albert could not be reached for comment on what he would do with the rest of the money. 
Ford is expected to win easily in Tuesday's eleCtion against the same Democratic opponent who took less than 40 percent of the vote against him twovears 

ago. Through the middle of October, Ford 
had raised more than $150,000. He spent 
about $90,000, much of it in contributions to 
other Michigan Republicans. 

Some powerful House members spent 
large sums of money of primary campaigns 
in which their opponent was no real threat. 
An example is Rep. Robert L.F. Sikes, D-
Fla., the Chairman of the Military Con­
struction Appropriations Subcommitttee. 
He spent $35,000 before a primary election in 
which he took 80 percent of the vote. 

Some influential legislators, however, neither received nor spent any money or only token amounts in a year that they were running unopposed. Examples include Rep. George H. Mahon, D-Tex., Chairman of the Appropriations Committee; Joe D. Waggonner Jr., D-La., Leader of the Southern Bloc in the House, and Edward P. Boland, D-Mass., head of the Housing and Urban Development Appropriations Subcommittee. 
Rep. Wilbur D. Mills, D-Ark., Chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, took in no money for his re-election to the House but received considerable amounts for his bid for the DemocraticPresidentialnomination. 
Even members of Congress who receive no contributions, however, are able to reinforce thier positions of influence by directing their potential donors to give money instead to other specific candidates. 
While members holding positions of in­fluence were able to command con­tribtuions, even when they had no op­position, many junior members had trouble raising enough for a campaign. An example is Rep. David R. Obey, a Democrat from Wisconsin in his second term: Last month he told the Congressional Action Fund, an organization that aids liberal Congressman, that he needed $40,000 for a successful campaign and had been able to raise only a quarter of that. 

Hale Boggs 

McGovernomics and business 
(Continued from page 4) 
incentives and the actual proposals which would have enabled many recipients to be better off financially if they worked less. While this difficulty has been largely 
remedied, the new version is very harsh on welfare mothers, requiring them to work unless they have children under the age of three. And given the somewhat careless initial design of the bill and Nixon's recent refusal on a modest compromise with Senator Ribicoff, Nixon's committment to the bill is suspect. 
And finally, in an area where facts are, and will probably remain, scarce there have surfaced. several cases in which the Nixon administration bas allegedly, granted covert favoritism to big businesses. A voter has little substantial evidence on which to decide whether this is a serious problem~ but more discreet and overt acts by the administration would have prevented the suspicion from arising. 
Few, if any, of the facts presented lead to unequivocal conclusions. Most are merely the grist for an evaluative decision. Economists are candid in admitting that, qua economist, they have no perticular expertise in making value judgements. But each voter must make such judgements on the severity of the unemployment-inflation problem, the equity of a tax system, the priorities of government expenditures, and many others. Evaluations of government expenditures are especially difficult today when it is evident that there is a difference between merely spending money on a program and getting results from a program. We frequently hear criticisms of the ineffectiveness of government spending for both national defesne and domestic programs, although these criticisms usually come from different groups. And President Nixon seems asymmetrical in his concern. Since 1970 he has vetoed at least ten bills related to education. hospital construction, manpower training, water pollution and other human contact programs because they were wasteful or inflationary. Alternatively or military spending it is President Nixon who plays the spendthrift and Congress which penuriously cuts his 

budgets. 

McGovern's economic program has been subject to more controversy than Nixon's because there is more to it. According to Time <Oct.30,1972), " ... Nixon, aside from his generalized pledge to hold down spending and taxes, has refused to let himself be smoked out on many economic subjects." Contrarily, "McGovern, as the propounder of new ideas, has made himself the focus of discussion .... " The same article later describes a Nixon proposal as "a mystery" and a McGovern proposal as "admirably explicit." The same could 
be said for the entire economic programs 
of each, respectively. 

Probably no voter will agree with every aspect of either candidate's platform. I do not. I do find McGovern's program well­considered, constructive, and com­prehensive. I also find his committment to low unemployment and a fair welfare system, his concern for equity in the tax code, and his reassessment of the priorities of federal expenditures compelling reasons for favoring his economic program. 


Presidential, Gubernatorial, and Senatorial Election Night Guide 

• 




i ~ 
~ 
I 
' 
' 
I ' 

.. 
., 
8 

the observer Monday, November 6, 1972 
An election history will remember 
come to every family of four, policy issues, the Watergate affair Committee to Re-elect the withstanding, the decision will be
(Continued from page 3) 

higher taxes for those making has taken the headlines as an President. made tommorrow. In the has set the war to his own political more than $22,500, and a funneling election year issue. Early in the The Democrats have attempted POLLING PLACES FROM advantages. of more money into into domestic campaign a group of men were to make the issue an election Bangor, Maine to Big Sur, 
On foreign policy, Nixon has policies. apprehended within the deciding one, but polls have in-California, America will be voting concentrated on trips to Russia Democratic Party headquarters. dicated that it has not had that sort for a President. And tomorrow and China. He says that is is time Watergate They had ties within the of an effect on the voters. night we can all turn on the tube that American allies begin to Republican Party and were paid Nonetheless, that is the way the and let the trio of Cronkite, Smith, assume the major burden of their Over and above these major with checks that came from the election stands. Polls not and Chancellor tell us who won. own defense. And the U. S. would 1
!JIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll JIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIDIIIIIIIIRIIIIIII IDIIIII .111UliiiiiiiiiiiiiRIIIIIIIIRHI~ 
maintain a strong shield of nuclear defense against outside = =
: = 
aggression. 

McGovern has defined a new ~ i form of internationalism which = i would focus on economic and 
5! technical aid to other counties = while de-emphasizing U. S. military intervention and aid. He would withdraw 170,000 troops 
I
from Europe and continue military and economic aid to Israel. McGovern wants to cut $10 






VALUE HOUSE

billion a year of the defense program claiming that there is fat THE HOUSE OF NAME BRANDS that can be cut without reducing the military defense of the country. 
Nixon though, thinks that this unnecessary and he hopes to in­crease military research and dl.'velopment without upping the defense budget. 
The third major policy issue of the campaign is economics. Nixon 


Why pay
wants to entend his Phase II progarm which sets limits of 5.5 p<'rCI'nt as acceptable increases in wagl.'s and prices. 
The rise in unemployment 


discount prices when
during the Nixon years has been th£> subject of many attacks by the DPmocratic candidate. McGovern fE.'els that every able-bodied 
you can pay less
AmPrican should be guaranteed a job opportunity. He believes that full PmploymPnt is necessary and possibl£> Pven if the program must b<' fl.'derally funded. 
HP wished to see the institution of a $4,000 minimum annual in-
at VALUE HOUSE 
Nixon sets goals 

regardless of vote 

f\\£f. 
I 
by Hobert B. Semple Jr. 
Come in for youfcopytoday! 
<c l 1!172 Nl.'w York Times News 
i
San Clementi', C'alif., Nov. 5--­President Nixon today set forth 10 goals to which, he said, both 

2CONVENIENT LOCATIONS
Presidential candidates should dedicate themselves in the next four years, regardless of the 
TO SERVE YOU BETTER 
outcome of Tuesday's election. In a nationwide radio address, 
I
Nixon said that these goals did not represent "campaign promises" 
! ~ 
SOUTH BEND
on which any single man could 
deliver in a four-year span, but, 
5 16 N. Michigan 
(Y> Block S Memonol Hosprtol)
rather, were ideal targets to which the victor in next Tuesday's national election should aim the 


MISHAWAKA 
country. 
1428 W. 6th St. 
(Behind family & Children s Center ot LW & logon) 
The goals included "a world at peace," and ranged from the need to eliminate racial and sexual 
SHOWROOM HOURS 
discrimination in American life to 
Monday 9.30 AM·8 30 PM Tues., Wed, Thurs. & fn. .. 930 AM·S:30 PM Sorurday 9.30 AM-330 PM
the creation of a county "free from 
fear." 
The speech was the President's only major political activity in an otherwise uneventful and restful Sunday. Nixon spent the day at his San Clemente home conferring with aides and preparing for 
WHAT IS VALUE HOUSE? 
tomorrow night's election-eve televised address to the nation. A general and unmistakable 
Value House is a catalog soles company that sells merchandise from a catalog and from
aura of confidence surrow1ded the Nixon entourage here, and this 
showrooms. Select from our Iorge on hand inventory of jewelry, silver, watches, stereos, 
optimism extended even to Sen. 
appliances, 8,000 items in all, and walk out promptly with your purchases. Our courteous 
George McGovern's increasingly 
and efficient soles personnel will assist you with your selections. CATALOGS ARE FREE FOR
bitter charges that Nixon had 
i
THE ASKING. Catalog shopping is convenient and easy ... and you con always be
fooled the nation by promising an 
imminent peace in Vietnam. 
confident of getting quality merchandise at Value House's famous low, low prices. If you 
I I
According to aides close to the 
hove never hod a Value House experience, do yourself a savings-favor, visit your Value
President, the Nixon staff was 
House showroom this week. Be sure to pick up our FREE 400 page catalog.
informally canvassed following the South Dakota Democrat's original 
Register To Win: 

charge against the President in a GRAND OPENING 
television speech Friday night. 

S2S Value House Gift Certificates (S winners)The cources said that no one 
S10 Value House Gift Certificates (25 winners)
THRU FRIDAY, NOV.lO 

recommended any unusual ~ response by the President. 
! ~~~~( Plenty of FREE PARKING at Both Locations
According to these aides, the President remains confident that the draft agreement reached with 

I 
Hanoi represents a 5 "breakthrough" toward a §! 

(continued on page 9) 


!IUUUIDDDIHIDDIUIUUIIIIIUIIIDIIIIIIIIIIIHII.UIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUUIUIUUDAUUIWIDIIIIIIIUmDIIIU-----------~~ 
t 
Monday, November 2, 1972 

the observer 
9 

Campaign history's most expensive official total clears sixty million 
by Ben A. Franklin 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Washington, Nov 3--The final pre-election financial reports of President Nixon and Sen. George McGovern confirmed today the firecasts that 1972 would be the most costly Presidential campaign year in history. 
Even without including an estimated $8 million to $10 million in additional Republican spending that Nixon's aides have refused to acknowledge or disclose, the reported, official totals for both major party candidates rose today to more than $60 million. 
The roughly comparable figure in 1968--from less complete data reported under a weak financial disclosure law, but in a three-way general election that included a $7­million expenditure by Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama not included this year---was $44.2 million. 
Moreover, the reported 1972 total of more than $60 million reflected only the latest Federal fund raising and expenditure statements, covering the 10-day period from Oct. 17 to 26, and thus left for disclosure in post-election reports to come next January, the heavy spending of the crucual 12-day campaign climax through Nov. 7. The final 1972 campaign total is certain to be higher. 
Today's spending reports under the mandatory disclosure provisions of the Federal Election Campaign Act followed the publication by the Republicans last night of a list of 283 previously­concealed wealthy contributors to Nixon. 
The list was obtained by Lawyers for Common Cause, the reformist "citizens" lobby, in an out-<>f-court partial settlement of a suit against the finance committee of the Committee for the Re­election of the President. The suit had sought to force disclosure of all hidden Republican contributors, but the settlement provided for publication of major Republican donors only between Jan. 1, 1971, and last March 9. 
The 283 donors of $4.9 million included two at the $800,()()()-to-$1 million level, the largest individual gifts ever publicly acknowledged by any presidential candidate, and 


Nixon's goals 
(continued from page8) 
negotiated settlement and that final details will be resolved in the near future. Moreover, it is the view of the people around the President, as well as Nixon him­self, that McGovern's last-minute charges have an air of what on eaide called "desperation" and are therefore not likely to be credible to large segments of the voting public. 
Among the goals outlined by the President are: 
-A ''world at peace" in which peace would be defined "not just as an interlude between wars, but a time of lasting friendship and cooperation among all people." 
-The elimination of "discrimination and quotas" in American life so that all citizens re~~ardless of race or religion, age or sex. wealth or national origin, could enjoy "equal rights before the law and unlimited op­portunities for realizing his or her fullest potential." 
-"A healthy America" in which all citizens would enjoy "steadily better health and increasing longevity." and where hunger would be "unknown" and where drug abuse would be rapidlycurtailed. 
-"An educational system that calls each of us to excellence in all · that we do," that, in Nixon's words, would provide quality education for all citizens while preserving the concept of "neigh­borhood schools." 
-Economic prosperity-that is, in Nixon's words, a "secure and prosperous American where there are jobs for all who can work" as 
well  as  a  "decent  income  with  
dignity  for  those  who  cannot  
work."  

PLACEMENT BUREAU 
nrrERVIEWS FOR THE W~EK OF NOV. 13 
Interviews are for seniors and graduate students. Sign-up sched­ules are in Room 207, Main Bldg. Interview timeb wust be selected and si~ned for in person. Hours are 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. each day, except Friday. The Placement Manual gives additional informa­t ion regarding interviews and procedures. 
NOV_ .3 Chemical Abstracts Service. 
BS, MS. Ph.D. in Chemistry and Biochemistry. BS, MS in Ch.E., Comp.Sci., Math, Physics. Washington University. Grad. School of Bus. Admin. 
All undergraduntes. 

NOV. 13 Ernst & Ernst. & 14 BBA in Acct. MBA. 
NOV. 14 Touche,Ross & Co. & lS BBA in Acct. and Fin. MBA. 
NOV. 15 Ingersoll-Rand Company. 
BS in M.L~ C.t~. and E .. E. MBA with BS in EngL Motorola Inc. BS, MS, Ph.D. in E.E. Southern Illinois University at Carbondale, IlL Grad. School of Business. All Bach.degree candidates. 
NOV. I 5 Corning Glass Works. & 16 BS, MS in E.E., M,E. and M.E.I.O. 
NOV. 16 Chrysler Corporation. BS in M. E•• E .IL and Met. Naval Ordnance Laboratory. BS in E.E., Ch.E., A.E. and M.E. Universal Oil Products Co. BS, MS in Ch . E. 
NOV. 16 Arthur Andersen & Co. & 17 BBA in Acct. MBA. 
NOV. 17 Claw Corporation. All BBA. BS in M.E. I.O. Provident Mutual Life Insurance Co. All Lib. Arts and Bus. Ad. Scientific Des'Lgn Company, Inc. BS, MS, Ph.D. ln Ch.E. ThundPrbird Graduate School of International Mgt. All discipl!n•s. 
Employer in fonnation. AI ternatives. Teaching Action/PeacE> Corps/Vista. Federal Servicf' Room 222, Administration Bldg. 
ll/2(72 
a dozen contributors of $100,000 or more. Another $100,000 was given jointly by 17 partners of one New York investment firm, Salomon Brothers. 
An analysis today of donors previously reported by Nixon fund raising committees--since they began making the required disclosures on April 7--showed that many of the concealed donors had continued making heavy con­tributions throughout the post­April period of mandatory public identification of all campaign givers. A major Republican argument in resisting the disclosure amde Thursday night had been that unwanted publicity would deter giving. 
More than 120 of the 283 con­tributors on the list of those for­merly unreported have appeared since April 7 in required Republican government disclosure statements as donors of amounts of up to $85,000. Their total Republican giving since April 7-­with full publicity-has passed 
$572,000. 
The March 9 cutoff date of last night's report was the financial reporting deadline under the old Federal Corrupt Practices Act of 1925. The Republicans have said they ignored that reporting requirement because the old law did not require reports from "primary election" candidates. They contended that Nixon was only a nominee, not a bona fide candidate in a general election, until he was re-nominated at the Republican convention in Miami Beach last August. 
Under the new federal election campaign act, which superceded the old law on April 7, primary candidates must report, and the Republicans began compliance then. But the effect of last night's disclosure was to leave in mystery the amoung and sources of millions of dollars reported to have poured into Nixon's finance committees during the 27 days between March 10 and April 7, with the inducement of annonymity for the donors. 
"Taking it all together­

NEED WHEELS? 


REDT-A-EAR 

Charter Rentals 
Mr. Honda 50715 U.S. 31 N. 
272-4484 
Marv Borr Toyota 18185 St. Rd. 23 

t( 
performance, features, styling, 
the BSR 81 0moves into ranking place among the best automatics we know of. And at its price, the others may well be in for areal contest." 
From HIGH FIDELITY MAGAZINE-May, 1972 


The BS~ 810 offers an impressive group of design innovations for mus1c lovers ... for professional users of transcription t~rnta.ble~ ... an~ for the audiophile who revels in sophisticated h1gh f1del1ty equ1pment. It has the tightest specifications for rum­
ble, wow and flutter of any automatic turntable 
made. we would 
of fact, few-1f any-automatic turntable manufac­turers pu.bllsh ~omplete specifications as we personal mspect1on can reveal the overall excellence of this fine mstrument. May we suggest a visit to your BSR dealer. 

BSR (USAJ LTD., Blauvelt, N. Y.I0913 


1 0 the observer Monday, November 6, 1972 
Nixon won't bend to Great Powers in CriSIS 

Observer 
(Continued from page 5) 
How does it happen th~t in all his years in politics his indigation was never aroused by the ac­complishments of such Democrat stalwarts a Frank Hague, Tom Pendergast, and the operators of the "machines" in Chicago and in Gary, Indiana: Mayor Daley alone has been credited by some political observers with voting Pnough graveyards, vacant lots and skidrow bums in Chicago to secure the Presidency for John Kmnedy in 1960. How does it happen that Senator McGovern does not deplore the action of Daniel Ellsberg, who stole im­portant national scurity materials and gave them to the press? For that mattPr, what are we untutored voters to make of McGovern campaigning last spring as the "moral" candidate, so happily unlike vulgar "politicians" of the 
, 
ordinary sort, and then, once the one the nomination was secured, rushing to mend his fences with Richard Daley and Lyndon Johnson? 
The Senator's moral sen­siblilities are as highly selective here as are those of his followers in apportioning responsibility for suffering in Vietnam. In­terestingly, the Senator appears pained that the U.S. voting public remains massively unconcerned about rascality in politics. He might reflect that many years' experience of comparing the words with the deeds of "idealists" like himself has contributed a great deal to that attitude. 
McGovern's administrative capacity appears as dubious as his moral postuing. To fo, in a week. from backing Senator Eagleton "1,000" to unceremoniously 

McGovern's priority •
IS 

(Continued from page 5) 
I'm supporting George McGovern because he was right about the Viet Nam war way back in 1963, when very few people were. I trust that kind of stead­fastness and strength of purpose and political courage. I trust that kind of moral and political sen­sitivity--that kind of attitude toward priorities of peace and toward the immorality of sup­porting dictatorships, even anti­Communist ones, that kind of attitude toward the arrogance of trying to be policeman for the world that doesn't want our billy­clubs. I trust that kind of attitude to keep us out of other Viet Nams; I don't trust the future actions of a Nixon who found it possible to ·support the hawk position so long, even though he has now, under political pressure, been forced to act in agreement with George McGovern's position. When George McGovern told the 15,000 people at the University of Iowa that those who opposed the war deserved much of the credit for the peace, he was right; and I trust those who opposed this war to keep us out of the next one. 
I'm supporting George McGovern because by mind goes back to those brave and morally sensitive Notre Dame students, those men who learned the finest in the air of this fine place, who said "no" to the government's demand that they aid in the killing of the innocent, and who are now in jail. I'm horrified at the crudeness of a President who can call them cowards, and I'm inspired by a George McGovern whose sen­sitivity can see that "amnesty" is not an accurate word for those who have committed a crime only by refusing to do something wrong, that "amnesty" is not a accurate word for those whose individual consciences were the leaders of our national conscience . 
I'm supporting George McGovern because I'm afraid of the pride and the violence and the hard divisions in the American character, and because in McGovern's person and in his programs--those that he has supported in the Senate and those that he has proposed in the cam­paign--I see a humility and a gentleness and a simple, beautiful, and creatively naive cry for unity and even--God help us--love. 
I'm supporting George McGovern because I'm an educator. I believe in education, in young people, and in a future nourished by the best of the past. That is McGovern country. Nixon calls us "bums." Money for education dries up. Nixon whips up the anti-intellectuals to punish the dissenters who, from inside university walls, started asking those embarrassing questions 
about that embarrassing war.  The  
universities  hang  on  to  
McGovernism,  for  within  the  

future of the McGovern vision, man has the freedom and the responsibility to work for a just society. That is what the alienated young have demanded throughout the decade of the 60's Justice in­stead of hypocrasy. The future must lie with that attempt, and with the spirit of that decade, not with the sleepy'self-serving decade of the 50's. Nixon proposes to continue turning us to the 50's; McGovern proposes to build upon the 60's. 
This is the election of clear choice. This year we have the best opportunity to effect real change in the country since 1932. George McGovern and my students of the 60's have issued the same challenge: To make the America of the future "the great and good land it should be," to "call America home to the founding ideals that nourished us in the beginning." 
I'm supporting George McGovern because America has 


., 
Student Union invites you to spend an evening with 
YES 
s p ec i a I g u est--Lindisfarne Sat., Nov. 18 at 8:30 
Tickets $5.50, 4.50, 2.75 on sale now at ACC Ticket Office (9-5) and Student Union Ticket Office ( 11:30-1:00,3:30-5:00) 
Hear the new Yes Album, "Close to the Edge," on WSND. 
throwing him off the Presidential 
ticket was awkward enough. This 
deed, blended with all the public 
squabbling among McGovern's 
staff, and with their chief's many 
changes of front, has left the 
suspicion that the Senator connot 
manage his own campaign, much 
less the nation's business. In the 
Eagleton affair, to be sure, the 
gaffe appears to have been due to 
the failure of a McGovern staff 
member. Yet if McGovern insists 
upon pinning responsibility for 
Watergate on Nixon he must, 
according to his own logic, accept 
responsibility for the Eagleton
debacle. 
Altogether, this writer finds it difficult to believe that any Republican could defeat any Democrate as overwhelmingly as the pollsters are predicting. Be that as it may, President Nixon deserves the support of all 


peace 
lost its soul. McGovern sees that lhe real America does not lie in bombers or in business, does not lie in hatred or in money, does not lie in cynicism or in complacency. There is something foolish about fighting the arrogance of power. There is something foolish in 
supporting George McGovern. 
Father Daniel Berrigan admits it: 
"I put to myself a fool's calling 
takl' st>riously a few things 
that for inattention, distraction 
<tht' irrt'solute eyes of the rich 
and drugged) 
go by thl'" century's board 
At center eye 
lost among money sacks, 
staining them red 
I see, as though eyes were for 
seeing <a fallacy) 
and cried aloud <a crime) 
Murder murder murder for 
sale 
for hire for lending for free-­
apples and lemons and 
chestnuts and murder 
products service murder, 
statistics goods murder ... " 
Foolish or not, I support George 
McGovern who challenges America to leave all that, and to come back home. 
thoughtful people in this election. While he does not evoke my un­stinting admiration he is a man of 
reausuc outlook and demonstrated ability, especially in the crucial ara of foreign affairs. Senator McGovern, by contrast, has no serious qualifications for high office. He is merely another ambitious politicain whose par­ticularstock-in-tradt:happens to be ''earnestness" and "morality." 
By any standard, he is one of the hree or four least impressive presidential candidates nominated by either major party in this century. On grounds of both ideologiacal orientation and native ability he should aspire not to the Presidency but to something like 
he editorial board of a radical radical political journal. 

Regular 
and 

Classified ads get results 
I~1titi1]11 :~ ~ I~ [ti•'• ,!f'II] it-.i 
See Our Ad 1n the Journal of Accountancy Becker CPA Review Course 
INDIANAPOLIS (317) 547-9971 

NOTRE DAME -SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
presents 



SUMMER AND SMOKE 
Tennessee William's beautifully fragile drama of frustrated love 
Washington Hall Notre Dame campus Nov.10, 11, 16, 17, 18at8:30pm Students $1.50 Phone Reservations 284-4176 
William Shakespeare's 

The Taming of the Shrew 
with Elizabeth Taylor Richard Burton 
Tues. November 7, 8 & JO pm Engineering Auditorium 
Don't Let This Happen! 







Vote For NIXON 

TOMORROW 

Paid for by the College Republicans 








leers split with Bowlin Green 
(Continued from page 12) halt. "When Ray was ejected, we That defense was notably absent ·•• knew we had to give that little in Friday night's fiasco at the B.G. ' 
struck hard and fast in last night's extra," Regan commented af-Ice Arena. Chris Cathcart faced 26 . . · rematch. With both Ray terwards. The Irish gave that little Falcon blasts in the first period,DeLorenzi and Ric Schafer sitting extra and then some, rattling off and for most of the initial session,out minor penalties just over four six straight goals to lock it up. had only four Irishmen on the ice tominutes into the first period, Archer was caugl'rt-help him. . .
Bumbacco took a faceoff at center hooking Pat Conroy at 13:41 to put Bob Dobek got thmgs gomg atice. deked past Falcon point man Notre Dame back on the power-3:51, and Bob Watson and Ste":'ard Gord McCosh at the B.G. blue line, play and Schafer took his turn, al~o converted before . ~Ightand fired a hard 15-footer over flipping a backhander off Boyd's mmut~s wer_e gone. WilliamsIJ.!oalie Don Boyd's right shoulder right pad into the goal with just 12 made 1t 3-1 w1th a power play goal for a 1-o edge that Notre Dame seconds left in the penalty. at 9:50, but that was as close asnever relinquished. 
The Irish all but clinched it at Notre Dame ever got.
"That first shorthand goal was 18:03 when Regan took a Williams Archer hit from the point atthe key·' to the game," Smith lead pass and came racing in on a 16:35, and Bartley blew by Nyrophappily remarked. "We stuck breakaway. The center's wrist at the blue ltne for anotherthem when t!J.e.Y had a two-man shot bounched off the goal post, but breaka_way that made it 5-~ afteradvantage, and then kept the came right back onto Bumbacco's those f1r~t dea~ly twenty_ m1_nutes.
pressure on." 
waiting stick, and the Sault Ste. The Irish. chck~d agam m theThe first of four penalties Marie junior got the hat trick. second per10d with a two-managainst Falcon defenseman Brian Boyd made some super saves advantage, on_ . a Green:to­Celentano resulted in a pwer-play early in the third period, robbing . Buf!l?~cco-to-Wllhams passm_gat 7:33, with Regan circling behind soph Mike Dunphy on a short exhibition, but Dobek got h1~the net and cramming his patented backhand try, then stealing a sure second goal and McCosh and Nagai "stuff" shot between the helpless deflection goal from Williams. But ~J?th added breakaway scores toBoyd's pads. 
the Falcon netminder's luck didn't g1ve the Falcons an 8-2 lead. Irish stars Eddie Bumbacco <left) and Paul Regan rejoice after an IrishEight minutes later, a slashing 
hold out. Notre Dame started to come goal in Sunday night's 9-3 victory over Bowling Green at the ACC.
call against Ricky Cunha led to 
Williams slid in a Steve Curry arol:'nd in the third session, firing Bumbacco scored three times and Regan, twice, against the Falcons. 
another Irish shorthand marker. 

rebound at 6:37 for another power-21 shots at a frantic Boyd, but itMike Bonk and Mike Tardani play marker, and second-year man was, too little and too la_te. B~r­made big plays as penalty killers, Cliff Maison got his first varsity ~ley s second sco_re made It 9-2 Withand Regan followed up by setting score, likewise beating Boyd on a JU~t u~der 19 mmutes lef_t, but the up Bumbacco for an unmolested rebound of a Curry drive. Insh_ ripped o_ff three straight goals shot from ten feet out. 
Regan made it 8-2 by deflecting w1thm SIX mm~tes, as Reg~n. andBowling Green struck right Bill Green's centering pass over a Bumbacco tahed, a~d Williamsback, with winger Mike Bartley, scrambling Boyd when both teams completed the hat tnck at 12:27.
the leading career goal scorer at were two men short, and NdB. "If you're going to be a con­B.G. with 62, flicking Roger Ar­capped their scoring at 15:18 with tender in the WCHA, you have to becher's rebound past a prone Williams taking passes from able to bounce back from the badKronholm just five seconds after Bumbacco and Bill Nyrop to slam ones," Smith ended. "The boys did Cunha left the penalty box. That home his second goal of the night. bounce back, and now we'recut the Notre Dame edge to 3-1 
''We definitely overcame the ready."
after the opening stanza. 
nervousness we had on Friday," The Irish officially open con­DeLorenzi was tagged with an said co-captain Green, a senior ference play next weekend whenelbowing call five minutes into the defenseman. "Mark made· some the Wolverines invade the ACC.
second session, but the Irish again great saves in goal, and we gave it Game tim~ for. both Friday andthreatened with good shots by a real team effort on defense." Saturday mght IS 7:30 p.m.
Regan and Schafter while holding 
B.G. to nothing more than a weak 
South Bend's Newest 110¥2 N. Main
wrist shot from outside the blue line. The Falcons didn't quit, though. DeLorenzi went after center John 
THE RED DOOR CLUB Stewart at 7:52, and was handed a five minute major for fighting, plus a game misconduct penalty. 
BEER * WINE * LIQUOR Bowling Green used the advantage to score, Rich Nagai deflecting 
NO Night every Tuesday --+~~--h-"'.­

z Colfax

Stewart's centering pass over Kronholm's left shoulder, making 
Memberships Available ~ 
it a 3-2 game. 
ANB :;·

But whatever comeback hopes 
B.G. entertained quickly came to a 



Robert J. Richard L. DuComb, Jr. Lindsey for State Representative 
*lower Property Taxes *Much Stricter Pollution Standards *Better Vocational Education *Reduction of Age of Maiority to 18 
These young men are qualified. Regardless of party preference, vote DuComb and Lindsey for State Representative 
Paid political ad 


"The Pause that Refreshes" 
How about a Weekend away from it all? A Retreat Weekend of Prayer, Discussion, Relaxation, Silence. Conducted by the Atonement (Franciscan) Friars Nov. 10 (Fri. nite) to Nov. 12 (Sun. afternoon) 1 _hr. from Notre Dame on Lake Michigan -Transportation Provided Call: (283) 1371 or 8814 or 272-9103 

-. 


12 the observer Monday, November 6, 1972 


Irish breeze past Middies, 42-23 


by Jim Donaldson score since Nick Eddy went 96 
Sports Editor yards with one in 1966. 
Philadelphia-Sparked by Gary Navy's Roger Lanning purposely Diminick's game-opening 84-yard squibbed the kickoff-"We were kickoff return for a touchdown, hoping for a fumble," he said af­Notre Dame's Fighting Irish terwards-and Wayne Bullock was scored the first five times they had the first Notre Dame player to the football and breezed by Navy, touch the ball, leaping high at the 42-23, Saturday afternoon in 30 ~n? deflecting it slightly. Veterans' Stadium. D1mm1ck then swooped in on the 
Employing an almost un-ball, had a little trouble picking it stoppable rushing attack, Notre up before finding the handle on it at Dame powered for 282 yards on the the 16, broke through Navy's wall ground in the first half while of onrushing tacklers and sprinted building up a 35-0 lead and coasted down the sidelines to pay dirt. to its sixth win in seven games this "There was a real wall there and year. I saw it and just ran and ran " 
Fullback Andy Huff, having the Diminick said. · ' best day of his career, was Notre "The ball took a crazy bounce Dame's top ball carrier, picking up and Navy was unable to determine 121 yards in 16 carries. which way it would go " Par-
Soph halfback Eric Penick seghian remarked. "Gary' popped turned in his third too-yard rushing the seam in the coverage and effort of the season, gaining 101 sprung loose and we were able to yards in only 11 carries, although wall off the sidelines for him." he sat out the entire second half Diminick crossed the goal line with a sore shoulder. Quarterback only 12 seconds after play began Tom Clements almost joined the and, when Bob Thomas added the 100-yard club, covering 95 yards in extra point, the Irish had a 7-0 lead 13 tries and Diminick added 81 and Thomas had the Notre Dame yards in 14 attempts. All in all, the record for consecutive points­Irish gained 526 yards rushing, after-touchdown. The PAT was the their top effort this season, while 31st straight for the junior, soccer­averaging 6.6 yards per carry. style kicker, breaking Scott 
"Our offensive line commanded Hempel's old mark set during the the line of scrimmage," coach Ara 1968-69 seasons. Parseghian said. "We moved the After picking up a first down ball effectively and capitalized on following the ensuing kickoff, some breaks that we got." Navy was forced to punt and the 
Diminick provided the first of Irish unveiled their devastating those "breaks" when he broke rushing attack, moving 85 yards in through a circle of Navy tacklers only nine plays for a touchdown. after fielding the opening kickoff Huff, who had a 17-yard gain, and sprinted down the sidelines for and Clements, who swept right end Notre Dame's first kick return for 21 yards, provided the big plays 
Jim DonaIdson~;;:::=========:=:=:=========:=:=:=:======:=======:::::===============:===========:=====:=:=====:=:===:=~ 
The Irish Eye 
:========::===============================================:====lri sh run Navy aground 
Notre Dame and Navy brought college football to Philadelphia's new Veterans' Stadium for the first time Saturday afternoon and staged an exciting offensive show for the meagre crowd of 43,089 who turned out to watch the 46th annual meeting between the traditional rivals. 
Perhaps alienated by the brand of ball played by the normal inhabitants of Veterans' Stadium, the hapless Eagles and hopeless Phillies, Philadelphia's sports fans left more than 20,000 brightly colored seats open for view. Flashy pastels, rather than waving pennants of blue and gold, do.minated the upper deck and, to the Fighting Irish, who are used to playmg before capacity crowds, the scene was reminiscent of the annual spring game--uniforms, a stadium, but not an awful lot of people around. 
For the first half, at least, Notre Dame treated what Navy coach Rick Forzano and his staff think is the best Midshipman squad since the days of Staubach like the second stringers who are manhandled every May in the Blue-Gold game. 
Starting with the opening kickoff, everything went right for the Irish who scored the first five times they had possession of the football. Ar~ Parseghian said, "We dominated the line of scrimmage offensively in the first half," and as usual, the Irish coach was being conservative. Notre Dame's offensive line pushed the smaller Middies all over the field and on occasion, threatened to knock a few Navy defenders up into the empty seats. 
Initially, the Middies tried to stop Notre Dame's power game inside but, after bei~g burned several times on plays to the outside, the Middie~ opened up a bit. Then the Irish rammed up the pipe. They just couldn't be stopped. 
. Notre Dame's front line of Dave Drew, Frank Pomarico, Gerry DINardo, John Dampeer, Dave Casper and Mike Creaney paved the way for the powerful thrusts of Andy Huff and Wayne Bullock and the quick bursts of Gary Diminick and Eric Penick. 
Huff, having the best day of his collegiate career, ran for 121 yards and Penick, although he sat out the second half, was over the 100 mark too gaining 101 in 11 carries. ' 
Quarterback Tom Clements, faking like a veteran in the backfield often decided to hang onto the football himself and, using deceptive speed and those oh-so-smooth moves, ran for 95 yards and a pair of touchdowns. 
The game. was reminiscent of past contests in Notre Dame history, when the Irish came East and ran the local heroes into the ground. Perhaps Navy was out of its element-after all, the Midshipmen aren't trained to stop ground attacks. Certainly not one so devastating as Notre Dame's. 
The brigade of Midshipmen brought along a vintage cannon from Annapolis and it went off with a boom that might have shaken the walls in old Franklin Field across town when the Navy team ran onto the field. But, while the Irish were rwming wild, that solitary cannon blast was all the offensive firepower the Middies could muster. Notre Dame's defense still smarting from the blasts leveled at it following the Missouri loss: kept th~ potent Middie offense out of the end zone. 
And When halftime finally came, giving respite to gasping Notre Dame rooters who had had something to cheer about virtually every minute since the game began, the issue had been decided. The remaining 30 minutes were merely a formality. Navy had still to satisfy its pride by getting on the scoreboard, but the Irish knew they had win number six in the bag. 
The Irish were complacent in the second half, missing a couple of good scoring opportunities and allowing the Middies to put 23 points on the board. But it really didn't matter. 
John Paul Jones and Rick Forzano might have been pleased that the Middies didn't quit but, in the end, Navy ended up walking the plank and plunging to its' fifth defeat in eight games while Parseghian and his Fighting Irish took to the air, finally, flying home to South Bend with an impressive victory. 
to move the Irish into scoring position and Clements capped the march by darting around the left side untouched for 18 yards and the touchdown. Thomas' conversion came just 7:09 into the quarter. 
Navy looked as if it might stay close, driving to the Irish 14 on its next possession before being set back because of an offensive in­terference penalty. Lanning tried a fi~ld goal from the 37-yard line, but It fell short. 
Then, the Irish took over at the 20 and, again, powered their way through the Middies' defense. Taking advantage of a Navy personal foul that gave the Irish a first down when they would otherwise have had to punt, Notre Dame drove 80 yards in 15 plays for its third touchdown. Huff's 11­yard gain on the first play was the longest gain in the march but the Irish consistently picked up yar­dage and Clements carried four yards for the score with 11:52 left in the half. Thomas converted. 
Ken Schlezes' 46-yard punt return just four plays later again put the Irish in scoring position. Fielding a low, line drive punt from John Stufflebeem, Schlezes was sprung losoe by some good blocks and he managed to break a couple of tackles before being knocked out of bounds on the Middie 16. 
After an illegal receiver penalty pushed the ball back to the 30 and Diminick had gained three yards on a screen pass, Penick darted outside right end on a draw play and sprinted untouched into the end zone. Thomas' PAT came with 
10:05 yet to play before halftime. 
Navy didn't have the ball long as, four plays after the kickoff, Mike Townsend came up with another acrobatic interception, his third in the last two games, to give Notre Dame possession on its own 17. 
This time, it took the Irish only 10 running plays to cross the goal line. Penick had runs of 24, 10 and nine yards in the drive and Clements picked up 16 yards on a keeper to help get the ball into scoring position at the seven yaro line. Diminick brought it in from there and Thomas added the extra point to put the Irish on top, 35-0. 
Notre Dame took that lead into the locker room at halftime and, at that stage, the issue was pretty well decided. 
The Irish played like they knew they had the game won in the second half and Navy, refusing to quit, took advantage of Notre 
Team Statistics 
N.D. Navy 
FIRST DOWNS ..... 33 25 Rushing ... 29 7 Passing 3 17 Penalties......... I I 
YARDS RUSHING .. 542 191 Lost Rushing . 16 21 Net Rushmg ...... 526 170 
TIMES CARRIED .. 79 58 
PASSES 10 26 Completed ........ 7 17 Had Intercepted . I I 
YARDS PASSING .. 71 m 
TOTAL PLAYS .. 89 84 Interceptions I I Yards rt'turned ... 0 14 
PUNTS ........ 0 5 Punting avera5e .. 0 37.4 Punts rt'turne .. I 0 Yards returned . . 46 0 Kickoffs returned/
yards ......... 41115 7/134 PENALTIES/Yards 6171 6/60 FUMBLES/Lost .... Ill 311 

Individual Statistics 
NOTRE DAME 
Rushing -Andy Huff. 16 for 121; Eric Penick. II for 101; Tom Clemt>nts. 13 for !15; Gary Diminick. IHor HI; Wayne Bullock. 14 lor 56, Russ Kornman. 7 lor 39; AI S1muel. 3 lor 10; Pete Dem· merll'. I for 23. 
Passing -Tom Clements, 6 out of 9. I intercepted. 53 yards; Cliff Brown. I of I for 18. 
Receiving -Diminick. 3 lor 12; Mike Crt'aney. 2 lor 33; Willie Townsend, I for 8; Bullock. 1 for 18. 
Returns -Punts -Ken Schlezes. I lor 46; Kickoffs -Diminick . 3 for 125 yards; Tom Bolger. I lor zero; Inter­ceptions -Mike To\\1lst>nd. I lor zero. 
NAVV 
Rushing -Clt>wland Cooper. 20 for !II; Dan Howard 8 lor 23; Jack Forde. 3 lor l9; AI Gl~nny. 5'for 26; Andy Pease. 
2 lor 4. Passing -AI Glenny. 17 for 26. 277 yards. one intercepted. 
Receh·ing -Jack Forde. 8 for 153; Bert Calland. 6 for 76; Robin Ameen, 3 hlr 48. 
Punting-Jobn StufOebeem. 5 for '11, Oa\·erage. 
lld4lrU -Kickoffi -f for 11 yards, 1U Oftu. 3 fer ._,; llltereeptlons ­


c--. twH. 


Dame's uninspired play to put three touchdowns on the board the first time since 1963 that ' the Midshipmen have scored so often on the Irish. 
Navy wasted no time once the ~hird quarter started, put­J~g together a 74-yard scoring dnve on the accurate passing of AI Glenny. Glenny, who hit on 17 of 26 passes for 277 yards during the afternoon, completed five of five in the Middies first touchdown m;.rch, including a five-yard scoring pass to Bert Calland. Lanning kicked the extra point. 
Neither team seriously threatened again until late in the quarter when the Irish, still moving solely on the ground, powered from their own 17 to the Navy three before the fired-up Middies made a spiritedgoal-line stand, dropping Clements at the four in a fourth-and-goal situation. 
The Middies promptly showed their ability to move the ball, going 96 yards in just six plays for their second touchdown. Cleveland Cooper, Navy's star running back who had been kept in check by the Irish, broke loose for gains of 15 and 24 yards and Glenny tossed a 36-yard pass to wide receiver Jack Forde to aid in the drive which culminated in .a three-y~rd TD pitch fmm Clenny to Calland. 
Navy lined up as if it were going to kick the extra point but, instead, faked the try and Glenny fired a strike to fullback Andy Pease in the end zone for a two-point con­version, making the score 35-15 with 13: 13 remaining. 

Notre Dame came close to scoring twice in the final quarter, but a 46-yard field goal try by T?omas fell short (the first place kick he had missed all yean and the Middies again came up with an outstanding defensive effort to stop the Irish four yards short of the goal line. 
The Irish weren't to be denied however, and finally added thei~ sixth touchdown on a four-yard run around left end by reserve half­back AI Samuels. A 23-yard gain on an end-around play by Pete Demmerle and a 14-yard Cliff Brown-to-Bullock pass set up the score. 
But Navy kept hustling until the final gun and, with Glenny passing and running well, the Middies added a touchdownagainsta hodge­podge Irish defense just 22 seconds before the end of the game. Glenny took the ball in himself from three yards out and the flipped a two­point conversion pass to halfback Dan Howard. 
Navy's offensive prowess im­pressed Parseghian, who com­mented, "Coach Forzano has done a sensational job with the Mid­shipman. They attacked our defense as well or better than any team we've faced all season." 
"Our team was a little disap­pointed in the final score because they had set goals defensively that they didn't achieve," Parseghian continued. "We had a natural letdown after halftime but Navy's execution was outstanding in the second half and they deserve credit." 
ND icers post split 
by Stan Urankar 
Tired smiles of joy were in order last night after Notre Dame salvaged a much-needed series split with Bowling Green in the home opener for coach Charles "Lefty" Smith's icers. 
Paced by seven goals from the vete~~n line of Paul Regan, Eddie B~mfiacco, and Ian Williams, the Insh rou,q to a 9-3 victory over 
B.G. belcir.~ 3,031 fans and "Fanatics" at the ACC Arena. The win made amendg.'for .a 9-5 Falcon shellacking in Bowling Green Friday night that left Notre Dame blearly-eyed and shaken. 
"The whole team knew that tonight <Sunday) was a big game" said Regan, the senior center who chalked up three goals and four assists for his weekend's work. "Say Bowling Green beats us again, then we go on to finish well in the WCHA playoffs. People would start asking why we were there when Bowling Green had beaten us twice." 
"We were much more ready tonight that Friday," coach Smith added. "In a five-week preparation period, you get stale just scrimmaging the junior varsity: We were flat on Friday, but tomght we turned it around." 

Junior goalie Mark Kronholm turned away 30 Falcon shots Sunday, but was quick to credit a unified Irish defense that had fallen victim to blazing speed and pinpoint passing in the opening los~. "~e defense was picking off their wmgs breaking in tonight," Kronholm noted. We were 100 percent more alert ... they got one shot and that's all." 
The Irish, hampered with eight penalties in the first twenty minutes of Friday's slaughtP.r-;~ struck hard and fast iri last nigk'l"S rematch. With both ·kay DeLorenzi and Ric Schafer sitting out minor penalties just over four minutes into the hrst period, Bumbacco took a-faceoff at center ice, deked past Falcon point man Gord McCosh at the B.G. blue line, and fired a hard 15-footer over goalie Don Boyd's right shoulder for a 1-0 edge that Notre Dame never relinquished. 
The Irish, hampered with eight penalties in the first twenty minutes of Friday's slaughter, 
(Continued on page II) 







