On The Inside 
term paper companies ...page 2 
bad week for irish sports ...page 7-8 

Vol. VII No. 56 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community 

Monday, December 4, 1972 


Governor-elect at CCE 
Bowen cites state gov't erosion 
Dr. Otis Bowen. Indiana governor-elect, ad­dressed himself to the erosion of state government and its correction before a crowd of 100 at the Center of Continuing Education Friday. 
Bowen's lecture was sponsored by the Notre Dame Law School as part of their lecture series on "Tiw State of Life in America." 
age of majority change 

Before the lecture. Bowen talked with some of the people present. answering questions, including some eoncerning the "age of majority" issue. 
Bowen said. "I have long favored the age of majority being at 18....The right to enter a bar_ is one of the many, many rights which go with changing the age of majority." 
llniversitv President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh introudced Bowen. pledging the University's resources to the aid of the government in In­diannpiJiis. 
trends defy logic 

Bowen noted that he lives only 25 miles from South Rend and that he spent his internship at l\lemorial Hospital. Speaking about his post­election experience, he remarked, "There is no shortage of advice; no shortage of applicants.,_ 
The governor-elect contrasted the nature of government as it is made to appear in schools, and the way it is running in reality. He noted that some trends in government "tend to defy logic." 
Some of these trends, he mused, may well be 

illusory. There was one trend of recent years, 
however. tha~ ·'Is a reality" and not an illusion to 
Bowen. 
state influence declines 
"State government's relative importance has 

suHered a decline," he said. 
Bowen noted that the erosion of the importance of state government varied from state to state, and added. "I'm proud to say that Indiana is far from the bottom." 
Bowen thought that it would do no good to look for specific individuals to blame for this phenomena, "Placing any specific blame on a particular person is not going to do any good." 

Bowen: "I have long favored the age of mt;:~jority being at 18... " 
Furthermore. Bowen did not wish to head all the 
blame upon the federal government. "The federal 
proliferation is the result of the lack of state 
responsibility." said Bowen. "State government 
was not as responsive to evident public need as it 
!'hould've been." 
Bowen did not regard the problem as insoluble. 
lie cited in the right direction, a ·'growing 
realization that the federal government has 
overextended itself." 
equal-share partnership 
The new federalism of President Nixon was also cited by Bowen as an example of one step towards an "equal share partnership" between the state and federa~ governments. Bowen listed criminal justice, educatwn and housing as three areas in which the 

Strike threat looms 
Apollo 17 poised for shot 
d
b J I N bl W.1
y o tn o e t for

(C) 1972 New York Times Cape Kennedy, Dec. 3-­
Preparations for the launching of 
Apollo 17,  the last of  the  moon­ 
landing  missions,  continued  
tonight  amid  complex  

maneuverings to avert a strike that might delay the Wednesday night lift-off. 
The astronauts--Capt. Eugene 

A. Cernan and Cmdr. Ronald E. Evans of the Navy, and Dr. Harrison H. Schmitt, a civilian­geologist. spent a relaxing day reviewingflight plans, flying T-38 jet trainers and watching football on television . Tomorrow they plan to resume training in spacecraft simulators. 
Labor trouble remains the only hitch in the countdown proceedings. However, officials of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and representatives of the Boeing Company, a major contractor at the Kennedy Space Center, con­tinued to be optimistic that either a settlement in the labor dispute could be negotiated or, failing that, a· "legal mechanism" could be arranged to prevent a possible strike from interrupting the start of Apollo 17. 
The dispute involves 60 technical writers, photogr . · tf'rhmcians 
nnd other "documentation" 
· t
workers. who are protestmg 30 o 50 per cent wage cuts that were ordered when Boeing won the "support services contract" at the Space center. 
The workers are represented bv the International Alliance of T-heatrical and Stage employes. 
Federal mediators have been brought into the negotiations. 
Although a walkout by the 60 workers could not stop the laun­ching by itself, there was some concern that other workers might honor the picket lines and stay away from operations more essential to the launching. 
Apollo 17, as planned would be one of the most scientifically productive missions in the lunar-landing series. . Arter a flight of nearly four days, the three astronauts are scheduled to rocket into an orbit of the moon at 2:48P.M. next Sunday, Dec. 10. For a full day, they are to check the spacecraft-systems before attempting the landing. 
If all goes well, Cernan and Sch­mitt will enter the lunar module, break away from the command ship and steer the four-legged vehicle to a touchdown in a narrow valley nearly surrounded by steep mountains. The landing is scheduled for 2:45 P.M. Dec. 11. 
The two astronauts are expected to begin their first explorations
·d h 1 d' ft b t f 
outst et e an mgcra a ou our hours later. Three moon walks, ealled extra-vehicular activity, or KV. A. are planned each lasting about seven hours. 
On the first walk, the astronauts will establish a lunar science station. an array of six sensing instruments powered by a nuclear generator. . . The instruments are expected to operate and return radioed data to the earth for years after the mission. 
In their second day on the moon, Cernan and Schmitt are to ride their rover to the foot of a moun­lain ridge to the south of the Ian-ding site. There they expect to pick up rocks from what appears to be a landslide, rocks that may have rolled down from the top of a mountain and may be very old. 
Their final wak, on Dec. 13, is scheduled to include a traverse to the north of the site, along the foot of another steep mountain wall, where they expect to find ancient rocks. 
The moon is about 4.6 billion vears old, and the oldest rocks found thus far by Apollo astronauts are estimated to be 4.25 billion years old. The youngest samples are about 3.2 billion years old. 
A 5:56 onDec.14,Cernanand Schmitt are to blast off from the moon for a rendezvous with Evans in the 'command ship. 
state government serves a major responsibility. 
In response to a question from the audience, Bowen said that he would seek to provide special education for the handicapped, but made it con­tingent upon the finding of necessary funding. "It (s~ecial education) can't be done without funding," satd the governor-elect. 
need for federal funds 
In answering another question, the doctor said that he intended to "expand and beef up" Indiana's laison office in Washington. He claimed a need for !his. since Indiana he said was "Fiftieth in the nation for the receiving of federal funds." 
In the prespeech meeting, Bowen had stressed tax reform of a goal of his administration. "The need is to reorder our tax structure to relieve our utter dependence upon the property tax," said Bowen. He gave three standards for a program of tax relief. First. it must give "substantial" replacement for the property tax; secondly, there must be "controls on the uses of property taxes" to prevent them from rising in the future; and lastly, a tax program must make up from state wide taxes what is lost through decreased property taxes. 


state-wide taxation 
Rowen wished to distribute the burden of decreased property taxes among the three alter­natives 'open to state-wide taxation. These three \rays are sales taxes, individual income taxes and eorporate taxes. Too much reliance upon one of these taxes would have a negative effect, according to Rowen. 
He also ruled out a state wide value added-tax on the grounds that it would drive needed business out of the state. 


tax reform dead 
He said he felt that on the matter of tax reform "It's been studied to death ... seems to me that th~ people are ready for a change." 
Rowen wasn't very enthused about a statewide lottery as a source of revenue. "It's been con­sidered. It always starts out well and then peters out." he remarked. "If the legislators should pass a lottery bill ... I believe in majority rule, and I would not impose my rule over the people in this issue." 


1 
1 
J 
~ 
.J 
the observer Monday, December 4, 1972 

Legal siege faces termpaper firms 
by Don Ruane reasons for wanting to do this: first, to protect the vast Executive Editor Db I •...i.t; majority of students who do not patronize the services 
Tt>rmpaper companies in the East are trying to ••rver ftSI.,.• . and second, to protect the public from people who have weather a storm of law suits, court injunctions, and obtained professional license to practice medicine, or state laws which have closed or severly limited 13 ThelawinNewYorkislessthanayearoJa. law. for example, by degrees fraudulently obtained eornpanies since last semester. A Precedent and Defenses through the use of termpaper services." 
New York recently closed three companies operating The current activity was probably prompted by the BU filed suit with the economic support of seven area in 10 cities; and Boston University secured an in-University of Wisconsin, which held up grades and universities including Northeastern, and sought a junction in SuffolkSuperiorCourt on October 26 which degrees last June for nearly 600 students suspected of declaratory judgement that the defendants interfere prevents 10 companies from "selling, renting, tran-using purchased termpapers. The University received with the educational function of the University, its sferring, delivering, or otherwise providing, any a list of students and companies from the state At-relationship with its students, and that contracts for written. or recorded termpaper, thesis, theme, or other torney General. Students who were caught have had their products are in violation of the public and research document," to any student the company has their grades lowered or are required to do extra work. educational policy of the Commonwealth and invalid. reason to believe will submit as his or her own work. In spite of the legal activity, many paper producers The injuction also required the defendant companies 
Georgetown University, Washington, D.C., is con-continue to advertise in student papers (The Observer to turn their records over to BU officials, which might sidering two legal actions. One to slow down local has refused three ads and substantial ad-result in individual disciplinary action for students who sources. and another to fight the advertising technique verHsing revenue), and defend themselves in the name used the products. The lists will probably be shared used by American Educational Research Consultants. of free enterprise. Other defenses include analogies to among the universities supporting BU's action. It seems AERC placed business cards in strategic ghost writing, speech writing, rewriting, and essay Georgetown is also considering enlisting the aid of places of the University's library card catalogue. writing. One company, Termpapers Unlimited of local universities, and their threat of legal action has 
.Joseph Jeffs, librarian, said that 150 cards have been Washington. D.C., even wrote a book for someone. caused the president of one company to say he will removed, and estimated it would take 13 or 14 extra William Halterman, head of Termpaper Research, release the names of Georgetown professors who are work hours to remove all the cards. Some students seems to feel that it is a service for students, "It is the on his payroll. The company has also stopped selling have turned in cards they found in the catalogue while professors' fault. As long as professors are dumb termpapers to Georgetown students. researching papers. mough to assign these papers that students learn Many companies say they do not keep the names of 
--_ Maryland's state legislature passed alaw last July nothing from, I'm going to keep on selling them." customers. but do keep lists of Universities and providing a maximum of six months imprisonment and Protects Students and Public courses or professors where a paper is to be used. a $1.000 fine for selling papers and research materials Boston University's Dean for University Affairs, Signs of Weakness for substitution of one's own work; and Stephen J. Trachtenberg, explains BU's action this Many company spokesmen also feel that they will 1\lassachusetts presently has a bill under way. "Our principal concern in taking the action is to come out on top if they are brought to court, but cases eonsideration making the practice a criminal offense. put an end to the termpaper business. We have two (continued on page 6) 
Messbarger's tenure appeal still undecided 
St. Mary's College Professor Paul Messbarger. denied tenure in Parlv November, has not been notil~ied vet of a decision in his appeal for tenure. 
According to Messbarger, "The wholt> thing is in flux. I'm not sure what is next." 
liP continued, "The reasons that I assigned for appeal, a number of irregularities. will either be denied or ealled insufficient for appeal, or ht> the hasis for an appeal. I'm not sun' what will happen." 
liP went on to state that all the documents concerning the matter have been sent to the American i\.~sociation of University Professors national offices in Washington. D.C. The AAUP may decide th investigate how the decision was made. 
The appeal procedure itself, as outlined in the Governance of the Colle/le. a manual containing the hv-laws of the Board of Trustees, tlit> faculty and administrative 11wnuals. is not clear. 



PITTSBURGH® PAINTS 
Notre Dome Student Discount 
-30% off Latex Paint 15% off unpainted furniture 
333 S. Michigan 289-2439 
The Olnerver Is published dally during the college semester ex­cept vacations by the students of the l'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's Coll4!ge. Subscriptions may be purchesed for Sl per semester ( 14 per year) from the Observer, l'OX Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46SS6. Second class postage paid, Notre Dame, Incl. 46556. 


------------~------------~~--------------------------------------~~------------, 


There-, been 
and neier~\Vill be anyoneexactly like you. 
....\~ ~· bUllet a #lett. ~w· .,.~ 

The Equitoble Life Anuronce Society of the United Stotn, New Yorll. N.Y. An Equol Opportunity Employer. M/F 
THE EQUITABLE 

For a free 18" x 24" poster of this advertisement, write: The Equitable, Dept. J., G.P.O. Box 1170, New York, N.Y. 10001 
Monday, December 4, 1972 the observer 

warld briefs 
<l'l 1!17:! Nt'w York Times 

Hong Kong--Nhan Dan, the official newspaper. of North Vietna~, warned in an editorial that any attempt by the Umted States to revtse the Vietnam peace agreements as announced by Hanoi last month will mean that the real intention of the United States is to scrap the agreements and continue the Vietnam War. Published the day before llenry A. Kissinger and Le Due Tho, Hanoi's negotiator, are scheduled to resume peace talks in Paris, the editorial seemed intent on em­phasize the tough stand Notre Vietnam will take in the new 
negotiations. 

New York--The Columbia Broadcasting System, which has been struck by television technicians, canceled a scheduled telecast of the New York Jets-New Orleans football game at Shea Stadium, charging that camera cables had been cut and that employees had been assaulted. It was the second cancellation of a C.B.S. telecast from Shea since cameramen. engineers and other technicians began their strike on Nov. 3. 
New York--For many years, Dr: Max Jacobson, a New York physician. has been injecting amphetamine--the powerful stimulant known as "speed"--into dozens of the most celebrated artists, writers, politicians and jet-setters. Many of the doctor's patients swear by his potions. asserting that the injections gave them boundless energy and more productive lives. Others say they have had bad reactions, in­eluding prolonged depression. 
an campu• teday 
l: 45 pm-lecture, educational careers, dr. keith goldhammer, cce 
3:30 pm-film, civilization film series, the fallacies of hope:early 19th cen­tury, age of revolution, empire and repression, engineering auditorium 
7:30pm-lecture, u.s. immigration policy towards mexico, dr. arthur corwin, library auditorium 
7:30 pm-meeting, celtic society, in­ternational room, Ia fortune 
8:00pm-basketball, notre dame vs ohio state, ace 
8:00 pm-folk dance, tzigane folk spec­tacle, $4 general admission, $2 students, o'laughlin auditorium 


Sclunitz, former Presidential candidate, to speak 
('ongrcssman John G. Schmitz 1h•nHlcratic administrations give 
the recenilv defeated American the American people deficit 
lnctenendent Party candidate for spending causing inflation. bigger 
the l'n•sidency will speak on government causing higher taxes, 
"Hoad to 19114." Wednesday at 8:00 the coddling of criminal elements 
pm in the Library Auditorium. causing civil disorder. and the 
.John G. Schmitz has been a pushing of this country into world Hl'publican member of the U.S. government causing our no-win !louse of Representatives since wars and weakening our national l!lill. Ht•centlv he was defeated in defenst•. tlw Hl'public.an primary for his .John Schmitz ran on the sl'al in the Thirtv-Fifth ,\nwric:m Independent Party to ('ougressional District of offer the :\nwrican people a real ('alifornia. llpon defeat, he choice among the candidates he dl'cided to run for the Presidency, dainwd. In contrast to the Nixon in part to "battle with the con-campaign managers claiming that spiracy which is trying to take over a vote for Schmitz is a vote for Anwrica." 1\h'Govern. the American Party 
The platform of the American insisted that a vote for Nixon is a 
Independent Party declared that vote for the McGovern platform. 
both the Republican and llere are some of John Schmitz's 
Great Lakes -area 
views on particular issues: 
D!'fense -America should be satisfied with nothing less than the Number one position in strategic military strength. 
W!'/fare -Hold down federal spending on programs which have made it possible for some who do not work to live better than others who do work. 
Inflation -Federal deficit spl'llding is the primary l'ause of inflation. S11preme Court -Federal courts have l'xceeded their rightful pmn•rs in ordering forced busing of public school children for purposes of racial balance, in banning voluntary group prayer in public schools. in letting too many lTiminals go free. and in other a n•as. 
.John Schmitz was born on August 12. 1930 in Milwaukee,
Wisconsin. He received his 
Hachf.'lor of Science degree from 
educato·s to convene1\larqtll'tte in 1952 and his Master
.& 1 of Arts degree from California 

Members of the Great Lakes 
Association  for  School.  College,  
and  University  Staffing  
lGLASCUSl  will  attend  a  sixth  

annual conference Monday and Tuesday l December 4 and 5 ) in the Center for Continuing. Education at the University of Notre Dame. Theme of this year's nweting is "The Changing Role of Placement and Recruiting." 
Spf.'aking at a I :45 pm session 1\londay will be Dr. Keith (;o)dhammer, dean of the college of education at Michigan State llniversity. His topic will be "lligher Education and Teacher l<:ducation: A _ Prospectus." 
Other speakers will include Bt•arl Runyon. director of personal for Kokomo-Center School Cor­poration: Lewis Crew, director of personnel for Ponti~c <Michigan_) State College at Long Beach in 1!11i0.

Public Schools. and Donald Boyd, assistant director of placement at !•:astern Michigan University. 
Discussion leaders and section l'hairmen will include Dr. Willis Bartlett. chairman of the Dl'partment of Graduate Studies in Education at Notre Dame: Rupert l<'arrell. assistant superintendent of the South Bend School Cor­pot·ation: Jamet Kerstein, llniversity of Wisconsin, Madison, and Eleanor Spitzig, director of placement for Rosary College, Illinois. 
Alex C. Moody of Indiana State tlniversity is president of W.ASCUS. Assisting him at the Notre Dame conference are Hichard D. Willemin, director of placement at Notre Dame, and L. Patrick Scheetz of Michigan State University. 


i 
Friday December 8 5-10 pm Saturday December 9 10 am -10 pm Sunday December 10 to am -10 pm 
1.· 
iI ACC Admissions Addult $1$.50 Students $1.00 Un er 12 .50 
~-~~·JiU-~i-M_________lW_!UIIIII!_Ifiil_UJIIIIH. 
Since Hl60 and up to the time of his election to congress, he had been an instructor in philosophy, history and political science at Santa Anna College. He served in the Califorina State Senate from 1964 through 1970. 

He has served in the U.S. House of Representatives since June, 1970. While in the House, he served on the House Internal Security Committee and the House In­terstate and Foreign Commerce Committee. 

Christmas Gift Certificates Beginners & Intermediates . Our Specialty Complete Cross-Country & Downhill Great pre-season packages Bindings mounted FREE Sun.
SHOP HOURS Mon.-Fri. Sat. 
12-9 .9-9 12-6 
Next to PARTY SHOPPES in Roseland 222-3845_ 
They're in Ill••• 
LEVI'S 
CRUSHED CORDS 
The ones with the full26-inch bottoms the 
I I 
ones you ve asked for... they're here. Now! Choose from Beige, light Blue, Dark Brown or Burgundy. These make 
great gift slacks, too. 
See· our slack collection ... you'll see the names 
Haggar, Kazoo, Spyder Mark and Levi's. The big 
names are here. 
' 
PAY IN JUNE, JULY, AUGUST 
Wear (or give) your apparel now, pay one third in June, one third in July and one third in August of next year. True! No service or carrying charge is ever added. True! 


~---­

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
John Abowd  Dan Thornton  
Editor-in-Chief  NEWS: 283-1715  Business Manager  
EDITORIALS: 283-8661  
Don Ruane  BUSINESS: 283-7471  Joe Butler  
Executive Editor  Advertising Manager  

Monday, December 4, 1972 
TermpaperCompanies 
Judging by recent developments in the battle between higher education and the termpaper industry (See story on page 2), the latter is certainly in for some rough times if not complete disaster. And it's about time. 
Purchasing termpapers for submission as your own work is plain and simple cheating which has no place in education at any level, especially at this level where certain ideals of academic honesty are assumed to exist. 
Unfortunately this assumption isn't realistic and it is those students who don't believe in fair play and don't have enough confidence in themselves who have made the termpaper industry the lucrative business that it is today. 
It is true that many termpapers are meaningless, and sometimes assigned more out of tradition than reason. However, as far as their meaningfulness is concerned, students are mostly at fault. Except for papers assigned in certain required courses, most meaningless papers are written for jock courses, which students have taken to fill their electives. Instead of choosing a course which will have meaning for them, which makes a termpaper a challenge to their desire for knowledge and creativity, they opt for something they really don't care about in the first place. How can they expect anything but a meaningless assignment? 
Protection for Students 
The time has come for a concerted effort to protect the student who doesn't use these services, and the public from those who win professional license through the fraudulent use of these papers, as the Dean of University Affairs at Boston University said in explanation 
daan•sbury 

of his institution's suit against 10 Massachusetts companies. 
The BU suit was supported by seven other Boston area universities and provides a model for all other univer­sities which profess the ideal·of academic honesty. 
There is also support for academic honesty in the state legislatures from New York to California. This indicates that termpaper companies have not gained the support of the public, which finances many of our higher education institutions. A combined effort by state legislatures and universities would be magnificent, and certainly sound the death knell for this dreadful industry. · 
Dangerous to Invest 
According to recent legal decisions it is becoming more dangerous to invest in a paper, which usually runs from $2 to $6 a page. Boston University will get a list of customers from the 10 companies it brought suit against, and Wisconsin used lists provided by the state attorney general to delay grades and degrees for nearly 600 students last spring. Disciplinary action ranges from lowered grades and extra work to expulsion. The termpaper companies are not winning in the courts as they claim they will, and students who patronize them are taking substantial risks. 
Let's hope that more pressure will be exerted, and that students and professors will make their courses more meaningful, and honest. 
Don Ruane 
(This editorial courtesy of Editorial Enterprises, Presstown, USA.) 
tells the story of one seagull (Jonathan
••rry trudeau 
Livingston l and his struggle to help his fellow seagulls reach perfection. After Jonathan 
trains a few disciples he tells them that they in turn must lead other seagulls along the path to perfection. At the end of the book Jonathan leaves his followers with the words "Don't let them spread silly rumors about me. or make me a god. I'm a seagull." 
Think about Jonathan and Jesus and per­fection over the holidays. We can make it happen. Merry Christmas. 
the observer 


EasyWriter Bah Humbug! 


Ebenezer Scrooge was right. Christmas is humbug. Nowadays, most people lo~k upon the holiday season as something to be endured rather than enJoyed. Of course we all have our favorite heavies to blame for this. For some people Christmas has been going downhill ever since they_ learned that there was no Santa Claus. Consequently members of th1s group never really will forgive the person who first told the~ the existential truth about ofd St. Nick. Other people believe that Chnstmas was ruined by its "commercialization." Hence they point th~ accusing fin~er at covetous money--changers woo they ~laim have. dr1ven the Chnst-child from the crib by replacing him with a Ba~b1 d?ll. Still other people find their Christmases spoiled by im­posm~ m-laws, noisy neighborhood parties, malfunctioning toys !n~rm~g-after hangovers, or combinations of these and other yuletid~ 1rntat1ons. Members of this crowd, unable to find a particular grinch to ~lame for their ruined Christmases, are just relieved when the holidays are over. More and more people are beginning to discover however that the Christmas season never really ends. Finance companies are always sending "season's greetings" in the form of monthly statements demanding the , return of money borrowed to c_over Chr~stmas_ expenses. Thes~ Christmas cards can be par­ticularly d1stressmg to a person who IS two or three Noels behind in his paymen~. Peopl~ who find themselves in this predicament usually take the1r frustrations out on the nearest Joe Garagiola. 
The Birthday Boy 

Christmas is a bummer for me, but not for any of the ordinary re_asons that I have cited. I think that the whole holiday season is a bad tnp not because of what we have done to Christmas itself, but rather because of what we have done to the birthday boy. We have turned Jesus into the first century version of Tiny Tim (not Dickens' character but the limp-wristed guy with the ukulde). It's no wonder that so few people get excited about his birthday. How many people even look upon Christmas in that way? Now, I'm no Pentecostal (in fact. I'm a_bou~ a~ ~or from bein~ a Jesus freak as a person can get Without bemg m Jail) but I do thmk that it's time that we redefined Jesus. Without sounding preachy, if we can somehow make Jesus relevant to our lives, then we might find cause to celebrate his bir­thday and in the process discover meaning in Christmas. 
Who Was Jesus? 

I've always been amused by those paintings of Jesus that picture Him as some sort of movie star. You've seen them. The ones in which He has the physique of John Wayne, the neatly-trimmed beard of Sebastian Cabot and the facial features of Dustin Hoffman. His hair is right out of a Prell commercial and when He smiles (which is seldom) it's obvious that He used Ultra-Brite <without the sex appeal of course>. . In reality, however, Jesus was probably not the Burt Reynolds1an eunuch that we make him out to be. He was semitic. Like all semites h~ was probably short, had a swarthy complexion and a l~rge nose. S1!1ce t~e Bible doesn't mention any barber shops we can assume that h1s ha1r and beard were both long and unkept. Someday, when_ o':'r culture gets over its sexual hangups, we may even concede that It IS possible that he loved women. 
.Not ?nly have we altered Jesus' appearance but we have changed his philosophy as well. We have transformed him from a joyous revolutionary into a moralistic ascetic. Jesus was not the Ann Lan­~ers of his time. He didn't walk around laying down a lot of rules, in !act h~ only ha? two: love God and love your neighbor. In spite of his occasional fastmg Jesus was far frp, am ascetoc' He loved parties too much. One time at a marriage feast he even supplied an embarrassed host with some more booze. 
It is one of the supreme ironies of history that Jesus the nemesis of the Establishment during his own time, has becom~ the tool of the Establishment today. We have taken Him off the streets and locked Him in th~ tabernacle. He's safer there. By calling Him God we can s~m~how 1g~ore the fact that he was just a man. It's easier that way. I< or If we believed that Jesus were only a man (i.e. one of us) we might have to think about following his example. 
Jesus Christ Seagull? 

I am reminded of Richard Bach's best­selling parable, Jonathan Livingston Seagull. I<'or those of you who haven't read it, the book 

Managing Editor: Joe Abell News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus Features Editor: Rod Braye Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Ann Therese Darin 

Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett 
Photo Editor: Jim Hunt Asst. Ad Manager: Patti Strobel Business Secretary: Ceil Popovich Subscriptions Manger: Art Ferranti Production Manager: Joe Wilkowski Circulation: John Woods Night Editor: Marlene Zloza Ass't Night Editor: Chris Sullivan Layout: Kathy Kelly Troublemakers: Joe, John Pictureman: J. Michael Copy Editors: Ed Ellis, Mike O'Hare Sports Night Editor: Vic Dorr Night Controller: Dave Rust 
Happy Birthday Fred 

Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
) 
Monday, December 4, 1972 the observer 
5 

beer industry enioys rising profits 
(c) 1972 New York Times News Service 
Americans are drinking more beer. Over the last 10 years, consumption has climbed to 19.5 gallons a person, or 127.4 million barrels a year, from 15.9 gallons a person. or 89 million barrels. . 
, This i~ good news for the big national brands like Budweiser, produced by Anheuser-Busch, Inc.; Schlitz, produced by the Jos. Schlitz Brewing Company, and the Pabst Brewing Company's Pabst Blue Hibbon. 
But their success is spelling trouble for many of the nation's regional brewers, companies like Schaeffer and Rheingold. Indeed. some industry officials are predicting a quickening death rate for the smaller companies around the country. 
Among the regional brewers reduced earnings, mergers, management ~pheavals and bankruptcies are becoming com­monplace. 
Hecent events in the $7 billion-a-year brewing industry include the move by Pepsico, Inc., to acquire 82 percent of the stock of the Rheingold Corporation and changes in management at the F. & M. Schaeffer Brewing Company and the J<'alstaff Brewing Corporation. Also, Falstaff has acquired the brands of P. Ballantine & sons. And the Schilitz Brewing Cc.mpany plans to close its Brooklyn plant next May. 
Eddier J. Sharp. a beer analyst associated witil Wm. D. Witter, Inc., said: 
"The big compannies are going to get bigger because of basic advantages of national consumer franchises and a large base of volume that permits them to build huge modern plants, which enable them to lower costs. This trend is accelerating due in part to the existence of the Price Com­mission. which prevents the smaller eompanies from raising prices and thus generate suffiecient cash flow to modernize even on a small scale." 
Sharp believes, however, that there are "a handful" of regional brewers that could do well over the next five years if there is price relief in 1973 "and there is no snow in .July to adversely affect the demand in their areas." He said that these are mainly privately held concerns but that one could be Schaefer. which is listed on the New York Stock exchange. 
He added that there is a remote possibility 
that some regional concerns "could get a leg 
up" if the three biggest brewers encounter 
labor troubles. Contract negotiations are 
beginning at all three:. Anheuser-Busch, 
Inc .. The Jos. Schlitz Brewing Company and 
the Pabst Brewing Company. 
Many of the regionals feel that the chief 
eulprits causing their ·troubles are these 
brewers with nationwide distribution. The 
big three: the regional brewers charge, 
enter therr areas and conduct vast ex­
pensive campaigns to capture business by 
reducing prices by as much as 25 cents a six­
pack. 
The regional companies contend that the 
iarge brewers can do this without any actual 
over-all loss to themselves by keeping higher prices in other areas where their products are distributed. If the smaller brewers attempt to compete by lowering their prices, increasing their advertising or modernizing their plants to increase output, it can prove disastrous to their profits. 
But there are numerous other reasons for the plight of the regional brewers. They include labor troubles, obsolete plants, shifting population, distibution difficulties and changing preferences in drinking habits. 
Because of undecided lawsuits still in the Federal courts, officials of beer companies are reluctant to comment now_ on the charges of unfair pricing methods. However. in Rheingold's annual report for 1971, John E. Haigney, chairman, had this to say: 
"During the past year, the New York sales of our beer products and those of our major regional beer competitors were reduced as a result of price discriminatory practices of certain national brewers who maintain high prices in low competitive areas while selling at lower prices in more eompetitive areas such as New York." 
Hheingold is now involved in a suit against 
Anheuser-Busch. 

The most recent regional company to 
start court action is Grain Belt Breweries, 
Inc .. of St. Paul. It announced last month 
that it had filed suit against both Schlitz and 
Anheuser-Busch. Grain Belt's third-quarter 
profit was $20,000, or 2 cents a share, down 
sharply from the year-earlier $198,000, or 20 
eents a share. 

One notable exception among regional 
brewers is the Adolph Coors Company, a 
family-owned concern in Golden, Colo. This 
eompany has only one plant, but it is the 
world's largest and is able to produce 10 
million barrels a year. Coors has not 
borrowed any money since 1888 and spends 
relatively little on advertising. 

Coors sales grew from about 2.8 million 
barrels 10 years ago to 8.5 million barrels in 
t971. up 16.4 per cent from 1970. The com­
pany expects to sell 9.7 million barrels this 
~·ear and ranks fourth after Anheuser­
Busch. Schlitz and Pabst. 

One reason for the success of Coors is that 
it is completely self-sufficient. It builds 75 
percent of its own packaging equipment, 90 
percent of its brewing equipment and all of 
its malting equipment as well as its own 
aluminum cans. It also contracts with 
farmers to grow its own high-quality barley 
and transports its beer in refrigerated 
trucks and railroad cars in 11 western 
states. 

Coors beer. a light product made like 
draft beer. is umpasteurized. To keep it 
fresh. it is filtered through a special system 
and shipped under refrigeration. 
Wholesalers are required to store the beer 
eold and to get retailers to do the same. For 
75 years the company has used the dame 
label and the same slogan: "Pure Rocky 
1\lountain Spring Water." 

Since Coors is a privately owned com­
pany. no figures are available on its 
operations. But nobody doubts that the 
business is extremely profitable, in the 
same league as the national brands. 
Some people in the beer industry fear that part of its potential sales are being lost to the wine and liquor producers. However, Henry B. King, president of the United States Brewers Association, insists that the "General state of the industry is healthy and I have not seen any inroads from wine or whisky." He concedes that some attrition has resulted from increased competition within the brewing industry itself. 
Consumption of malt liquor, also made by the brewers, is only about 2.5 million barrels, but people in the industry point out that it is ·growing faster than beer con­
james ;. nagle 
s_umpti~m. The alcoholic content of malt hquor rs about one-fifth higher than beer's :1.6 percent by weight. 
Ma~t liquor was originiated by the Pearl Brewmg Company and was sold under the Country Club label in 1956. The company had ~he market to itself until 1964, when the Schlitz company brought out its brand (said to be today's fastest growing) and National Br~wing introduced Colt 45, which is beheved t? have about 40 percent of the market. Smce then Miller, Utica Club and Anheuser-Busch, among others have en­tered the market. 
Little Bir:~ Screen 


....~. 
'/ art ferranti 


This is the last column of the semester, but never fear, it shall return in January. So. I shall list movies as far ahead as the networks themselves have scheduled. Remember, you saw it here first! 
For this week, Thursday night on CBS (22l, Humphrey Bogart and Katherine Hepburn star in the screen classic The African Queen. This 1951 film, besides enabling Bogart to receive his only Oscar (for the record, Hepburn holds more acting Oscars than anyone else--three) concerns itself with the relationship between a drunken boat captain in the steaming JUngles of the so-called dark continent and a prim. straight-laced missionary set against the background of World War One. John llouston directed this film which is pure escape. combining the elements of romance. humor, and action. This is a prime example of how movies should be produced. acted, and directed today. The African Queen casts off at 9:00. 
There are a few specials worth your in­terest this week. The Appointment with Destiny series ~enews on at eight on 22, Wedn~sday. Thrs hour long documentary pulls from a number of historical societies and museums to explore in depth events of the past. Last year, they ptesented six programs dealing with such topics as The 
Last Days of John Dillinger, The Plot to Assasinate Hitler, The Gunfight at O.K. Corral , and The Last Days of Christ 
J<~xcellently done as if cameras were there to r~cord the events as they happened, in­tervrews with those principals involved (actually actors who bear striking resemblances to the characters) and a narrator wno ties it all together are featured. Wednesday "Cortez and Mon­tezuma: The Conquest of an Empire" is featured; narrated by Lorne Green. A must for history buffs, since these programs are not repeated in the rerun, season. 
Do not forget the Apollo liftoff also on Wednesday evening. The first night laun­ching of a manned moon rocket, Apollo 17 takes off at 9:53pm probably on all stations. The astronauts are Commander Eugene A. Cernan. Command Module Pilot Ronald E. Evans. and Lunar Module Pilot Harrison H. Schmitt--a geologist who will be the first !>dentist to explore the moon's surface. 
The Homecoming: A Christmas Story 
is recast on 22 Friday at 9:00. About a 
family during the depression, this program 
won critical praise and is the basis for this 
season's The Waltons series. Perry 
Como's Christmas show is on tonie:ht :lt <l·oo 
on 22 (J mention this simply because I am 
a fan of his l. 
The rest of the movies this week are 
pretty poor. The Hired Hand tonight at 9:00 
on 16 stars Peter Fonda and Warren Oates 
The Couple Takes a Wife <Tuesday 8.30 
28) has Bill Bixby and Paula Prentis~ i~ ~ 
•.nade-for-TV flick. More promising made­lor-Tyfare on ~uesday (9:30on 22) is A War of Ch~ldren set m 1972 in the war in Ireland and filmed on location. . So much for this week. Here's what's on in l~t~re weeks during the vacation. <All hst~ngs are subject to change without notr~e. l For reasons of space, times will not 
be grven. 
Dec. 11 a Shot in the Dark, Peter Sellers, Elke Sommer. NBC An hilarious detective comedy. 
Dec. 12 Pursuit, Ben Gazzara, E.G.Marshall, ABC. Made-for-TV. Dec. 13 Every Man Needs One, Ken Berry, Connie Stevens, ABC. Made-for-TV. 
Dec. 14 How to Murder Your Wife, Jack Lemmon, Virni Lisi, Terry Thomas. CBS A s~perbly funny film with Lemmon trying to rrd himself of Virni Lisi whom he man-ied in a drunken stupor. I should be so unlucky 
Dec. 15 The Ambushers, Dean Martin CBS More Matt Helm. Skip it. Dec. 16 Viva Maria, Bridgett Bardot. ].\' BB in all her un-acting glory. Dec. 17 No movie, two Specials--Portr, 
of the Woman I Love with Richc. 
Chamberlain and Faye Dunaway and l 
Men and Women ABC 
Dec. 18 The Snoop Sisters, Helen Hayes. 
NBC Made-for-TV. 
Dec. 19 Unlisted CBS movie. 
Dec. 19 "ABC Theater; If You Give A 
Damn, You Gotta Pay the Band . ABC 
Made-forTV. 
Dec. 20 The Weekend Nun, Joanna Petit, 
Vic Morrow. ABC Made-for-TV. 
Dec. 21 Will Penny, Charleton Heston, 
Joan Hackett. CBS An excellent quiet 
Western with action but not for the sake of 
action in the days of the early frontier. 
Dec. 22 Good-Bye, Mr. Chips, Peter 
O'Toole. CBS O'Toole's performance does 
not match that of Robert Donat who 
received an Oscar for the 1938 version but it 
rs still a pleasure to watch; about a Latin 
teacher in Englan. 
Dec. 23 Mayerling, Omar Shariff 
Catherine Deneuve. NBC. ' 
Dec. 25 MERRY CHRISTMAS! The 
Railway Children. John Agulter. NBC Kid 
fare for Christmas. 
Dec. :30 Mouse on the Moon, Margeret 
Hutherford. Terry Thomas. NBC An 
amusing sequel to The Mouse That Roared, 
but not as funny. 
That is all that is scheduled. ABC und 
CBS have no listings at this time after 
December 23. 
Befor~ Wl' get to the trivia question, 1would hke to say good bye to A.T. and Barb 

in a Jagging oater. Watch the game--that t \\'.~? have bee!! great reporters 1in two might wash away some of the bitterness I drllerent me_dras on the campusl and 
over Saturday's catastrophe. The World of Suzie Wong with William Holden and Nancy Kwan is a tasteless soap opera flick about an American artist who falls in Jove with an oriental girl in Hong Kong. That is on the ABC Sunday Night Movie at 9:00. The Wild Heart Wed., 28, 9:30 is an uneventful and unconvincing drama with Jennifer Jones as a gypsey who falls in love with a squire while married to a cleric. The Thursday late movie at 11 ::Jo on 22 features Sidney Poi tier. Eiizabeth Hartman, Shelley Win­ters. and Wallace Ford in A Patch of Blue. 
It is a beauty of a film and well worth the watching. Love is a Ball <Sat., 9:00, 16) has ~lenn Ford, Hope Lange, and Charles.'Boyer 
m a pure escapist yarn which ends predictably. 1You should have something better to do in this case. 
people. !ake rt easy. The place won't be the same wrthout you. . Trivia q11iz Since it is the season to be Jolly. here san easy one for you. Name the :·play" Gene Wilder and Zero M :d st:.;;,.·d m The _Produ_cers. _Is it ... 
a.) Wmtertrme wrth Napoleon 
b. l Springtime for Hitler 
e · l Autum!! in Caesar's Rom• . d. l Spendmg a Summer wit 
is \.han . . 
e. l Frll Ill 
1\lerry Christmas and Happy N..... •at 




the observer Monday, December 4, 1972
6 

Henry reviews municipal problems 
of the Center for the Study of Local
Dr. Edward L. Henry, Saint get and use the technology. These 
Government at Saint John's
l\1ary's -College President, are social failures. not 
tTniversity, Collegeville, Min­
stressed the desirability of im­technological ones." proved delivery of municipal in­nesota. Noting that neither the market formation to voters by elected In discussing "Service Delivery gystem of the private sector or the officials of the eighty-seventh and the New Technology," Henry political system of the public National Conference of the Stated. "The problem of sector can supply the technologies, National Municipal League, last inadequate city service delivery llenrv cited some of the factors l\londay. gystems. if they are inadequate, responsible for not accomplishing 
Dr. Henry was Mayor of St. lies not so much in the lack of the best job possible. Cloud. Minnesota for seven years, technological know-how, as in the Preference of many local and prior to accepting the Saint inability of the cities to organize politicians and many if not most of M:1ry's Collegep'ost was Director themselves and their resources to their constitutents. for plrivai,(: 
Mardi Gras plans undervva 
by Bill McGinn Carnival is held both to aid the Staff Reporter various charities as well as to provide an entertainment break The annual Notre Dame Mardi for ~he students during the long 
Gras Carnival Week isn't until the winter months. lirst week of February, but John Dllffy stated that in recent years Duffv. Joe Oliva and the Mardi the 1student attendance at the <;ras Committee has started l\lardi Gras has dropped off. He working towards its preparation. warned that if the downward trend The traditional event is annually of student support continues this gponsored to aid such charities as ~ear. the University Ad­CILA. Manasa. the Neighborhood ministration might cancel the Study Program, Sr. Marita's event for future years. School. the Bengal Missions as well Duffv claimed that the raffle as other deserving organizations. progr~m is the largest source of 
John Duffy: Carnival held both to
The Mardi Gras Committee has revenue for the Mrdi Gras 
aid charities and provide an 
so far ordered supplies, Charities. He indicated that 
entertainment break for
t'stablished the format for the seventy-five to eighty per cent of 
students.
floor plan at Stepan, started co­all the money obtained by the Mardi given on a Suzuki 500 motoreycle.
ordinatingboothdesigns, and other Gras events come from this The raffle of a 1973 Buick Riveriaorganizational work. program. Raffle Books have on February 11th will mark theThe Notre Dame Architecture already been distributed l'ulmination of the Mardi GrasDepartmnet will aid the student throughout the residence halls by Carnival. 
groups in designing their booths so the section leaders. Duffy em­that they will portray the Car­phasized that if each student would nival's theme of "The Undersea just sell qne raffle book during the Reihle revive:s 
World of Atlantis." There are Christmc!s vacation the goal of t'xpected to be between twenty and $20.000 Ifor charity could be 
past shoplifti:ng
twentv-two booths on the floor of achieved. 
the Stepan Center. Already Incentives are being offered to thirteen student groups have persuade the students to sell the sanction poli~cyregistered booth plans with the raffle books. A twenty per cent 
Mardi Gras Committee. commission on each book sold will Astatement on shoplifting by ND 
Committee Chairman John be offered to the students. For each students was released by Fr. Duffy noted that the Mardi Gras book sold one chance will also be .James Reihle. Dean of Students. The directive reads: "Last week several Notre Dame students were apprehended and
Mexican-American 
prosecuted in South Bend for shoplifting. Recently there has been a noticeable increase in stealing at the Notre Dame Book Store. So. I am forced to repeat my 
A lecture on "U.S. Immigration llniversity of California at directive of last January: Policy Toward Mexico" will Berkely: Dr. Juan Garcia, "For any studeut ap­inaugurate a new series of talks llniversity of Californa at Los prehended and convicted of sponsored by the Mexican Angeles. and Dr. Ray Marshall, stealing, the ordinary penalty American studies program at the llniversity of Texas. will be suspension for the llniversity of Notre Dame. Dr. In addition to delivering a public current semester." Julian Samora, director of the lecture, each speaker will hold an "I t•ertainly hope that this interdisciplinary graduate informal seminar for graduate warning will help resolve the program. explained that the students in the Mexican-American problem and prevent any possible University hopes to sponsor 10 Studies Program on a topic related t'mbarrassment to you and your lectures during the remaining to the formal lecture. families." academic year. 
Dr. Arthur Corwin, professor of history at the University of Con­
prograzn slates talk 
Ter~npaper firms 
necticut. will deliver the first talk l\londay !Dec. 4) at 7:30pm in the· (continued from page 2) Librarv Auditoriom. such as Wisconsin, Boston and New York seem to 
Also 'speaking this semester will indicate otherwise. he Dr. Ramon Ruiz, chairman of Threats to reveal the names of authors does little to the department of history at the help the image termpaper companies like to use: that t Tniversity of California at San they protect students and others who are victims of Diego. liis talk is titled "The certain academic policies, and that profit is not the 
l\Jcxican-American War," and is prime motive. gcheduled for December 12. Universities with anti-termpaper policies should 
Lecturers scheduled for the · t·hallenge such threats and fire any professor who is · spring semester will include connected with the industry. But one must wonder if Carrev McWilliams, editor of the the companies· are willing to sacrifice their writers to Natio.n: Dr. Arnulfo Trejo, avoid legal action, might they be willing to sacrifice University of Arizona; Dr. Ernesto some of their clients, and does this indicate that they do Galarza. author of "Spiders in the not have as strong a legal case as they claim? 
grills over public needs. Governor of Pennsylvania; John J 
--Growing obstacles in the ef­<;illigan. Governor of Ohio, Nelson 
ficient use of public manpower, A. Hockefellar. Governor of New 
such as inefficient selection and York; Wendell R. Anderson 
retention systems, among them <;overnor of Minnesota; Terry 
exce~sive civil service protection, Sanford. President. Duke 
public employee unions and I lniversity and former Governor of 
political spoils. ' North Carolina: Alfred E. Driscoll 

--Failure of society to effect a Chairman of the Executiv~ 
fruitful liason between t>duca tiona! Committee. ~ational Municipal
institutions and the cities as was League and former Governor of 
done In transmitting agricultural Nt>w .!Prsey: George H. Romney,
tt>chnology to the farmers through Secretary of Housing and Urban 
agricultural externsion. DPveloprnent and former 
--Antiquated city governmental < ;overnor of Michigan.
forms and restrictive charters. 
which deny cities effective 

NEED WHEELS?
t>xecutive managers. 
--Local tax systems that arouse 
the intense sensitivity to the cost of 
upgrading municipal delivery 
svstems. 
·--Imperfect political com­
nnmication systems which blunt. 
supr·ess. delay and distort ac­
l'Urate voter priorities. 
--Stereotyped. narrow. and obsolescent conceptions of com­munity." 
Other notable speakers at the l'Onference included William W. Scranton. President. National l\lunicipal League and former 


Women's rights 

REIIT-A~rAR 
topic tonight 

Charter Rentals 
Mr. H. Honda
on 'Tear 'n Tell' 

50715 U.S. 31 N. 272-4484 Women's rights on the ND 
, Marv Borr Toyota campus fur female un­
18185 St. Rd. 23 272-8080 dergraduates will be the topic of 

2418 S. Michigan 28J-1560 tonight's "Tear'n Tell" program on WSND at 11:00 pm. 
Mary Lynn Broe and Dr. Kathy w~·ugert. both assistant professors in the General Program, as well as Katie Duffy. an ND undergraduate student. will participate in the panel discussion to be aired. All three participanst are members of the Women's Caucus. 
WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE'S 

KING HENRY V 
Starring Sir lawrence Olivier 
Tues. Dec. 5 8 & 10 p.m. 
Architecture Auditorium $1°0 proceeds to Sr. Morita 

I louse. Workers in the Fields" and "Barrio Boy"; Dr. Paul Taylor, 
Residence halls will be locked Dec.21 to ]an.l2 
The residence halls will. be 
dosed again between semesters, 
from December 21 to January 12. 
All outside doors will be locked 
an no one will be permitted to 
reside in the residence halls durin< 
the above dates. 

It is "an effort to strengthen the security of the residence halls and individual rooms and personal property," according to Fr. James l{iehle. Dean of Students. 
Need a gift for a frigid woman? · See the assortment of matching 
SCARFS CAPS AND MITTENS at HELEN'S BOUTIQUE 105 South Michigan 
ALSO: HANDBAGS 
ACCESSORIES 
Phone 233-3855 OTHER GIFTS 
,_ 
Monday, December 4, 1972 the observer 

IND icers lose twice at Wisconsin 
by Vic Dorr Even in a hockey conference like the WCHA. four sound.well-played periods is usually enough to win at least one game out of a two-game, weekend set. 
Coach Lefty Smith's Notre Dame icers shook off the doldrums that have been plaguing them for much of the weekend's series with the Wisconsin Badgers, but four good
periods of hockey were not enough to win evern one game of the four-point series. The Badger victories came by 5-4 and 5-3 scores. with Friday night's contest being decided in a sudden.death overtime period. The two losses extended a pair of Irish streaks, one of which has been growing since last season. Notre Dame has now lost II straight road games over a two-season span, and the Irish record for the '72 season now 
stands at 4-6 overall and 3-5 in the WCHA. 
A third streaR 

A third streakwhich was padded in Friday's game, came to an end Saturday. when John Noble scored Notre Dame's first power play goal in six games--and 28 attempts--to lie the game at 7:05 of the first period. Wisconsin's Norm Cherry had hut the home team out in front at :I:O!l when goalie Chris Cathcart muffed a dearing pass and sent the puck right at Cherry for an (•as~· scoring chance. 
The deadlock created by NO's power play score stood up for less than five minutes, though as Wisconsin came back and tallied twice within a span of 47 seconds. Forward Dean Talafous beat Cath­,·art on a front-angle backhand shot at 12:09 of the first period, and then Don Deprez slipped past Irish 
ctefenseman Bill Nyrop and moved in for the Badgers' third goal at 12:!i(i. 
Notre Dame converted on another power play late in the period. when Noble slipped the puck to Eddie Bumbacco, who was stationl.'d in front of Wisconsin J..(oaltender Jim Makey. Bum­hacco's goal came at 18:23, and it was to be the last scoring until both tl'ams found the range atain in the third period. 
Missed opportunity 

The Irish missed an op­portunity to tie the score at the hl.'ginning of the third period, when they enjoyed a 4-3 man advantage due to a cluster of penalties. But the Badgers held off that power play and instead made the situation work to their own advantage. 
.Just as the penalties were en­ding. Wisconsin's Gary Winchester broke up the right side and fired a low. hard shot that beat Cathcart to the far side of the cage at 14:17. Bumbacco's second goal of the night--a long-distance slap shot which came at 16:04--narrowed the gap to 4-3. but the Irish failed to make another serious scoring attempt. Wisconsin's Denny Olmstead closed the storing with an open net goal with 15 seconds left in the game. 
Friday night's contest saw more of the same for the Irish icers, who have now lost three in a row and five of their last six. Notre Dame, trying to familiarize itself with new line combinations, battled 
· from behind to tie the game three times. but ended up with the loss when a Badger Billy Reay's shot 
WANT UNUSUAL ENTERTAINMENT FOR A HOLIDAY PARTY? 
An amusing Veteran of stage, film and T.V. can help you, your club, 
, group or school. 
CALL 234-1573 

season--at 14:50 tied the score at four and set up toe sudden death overtime. 
Summary 
St:ore by Periods Net~ Dame .............. 1 Z I H Wtscoasla . . . Z I I 1-6 
First Pe>rlod W-Talafous (Bentley, Winchester), 5:2? ND-Bumbacco (DeLorenzi, Noble), 
15:43 W-Bentley (Machowski, Dool), 19:50 Penallies-Nyrop (ND), 4:28; Ma­
chowski (W), 7:36. Second Period W-'l'alafous. unassisted. I:47 NO-Conroy (Williams, Larson), 8:54 ND-lsraelson (Williams. Conroy), 15:07 Penalties-Green (ND), 2:24; Hink­ley (W), 11:11; Curry (ND), 15:49. Tblnl Period W-Cheny, unassisted, 10:30 ND-l>unphy (Williams), 14:50 Penallies-Cheny (W), 12:117 Overtime W-Reay (Hinkley, Olmstead). 3:03 

Penalties-None  
Saves Kronholm (ND) ....... 14 9 Per!tins (W) ........... 10 7 Attendance--8,431  10 14  :J-;16 o-.11  
SCORE BY PERIODS  

Notre Dame........ . . .. . . 2 0 I-3 Wisconsin .. .. . . . .. .. 3 0 2-5 
FIRST PERIOD W -Cherry. unassisted, 3:09. ND -Noble (Regen, DeLorenztJ, 
7:05. W -Talafous (Hinkley, Arundel!. 
12:09. W-Deprez (Talalous. Alley). 12:56. ND -Bumbacco (Noble. Green), 
18:23. 
Penalties-Hinkley (W). 6: II: Cuny (ND), 8:21: Talalous (WJ, 9:57: Regan (ND), 9:57; Cheny (WJ, double minor, 
13:35: Regan (ND), double minor, 13: 35; Tall (W), 17:16. SECOND PERIOD 
Penalties -Williams (NDJ, 3:07; Bumbacco (ND), 4:39: Johnston (WJ, 9:50; Regan (ND). minor and miscon­duct. II: 16; Lundeen (W), 15:02; Wil­liams (ND), 16:55. 
THIRD PERIOD W-Winchester (Lundeen). 14:17. ND-Bumbacco (Conroy, Williams), 
16:04. 
W-Olmstead. unassisted. 19 45. 
Penalties-Reay (W), 5:45: Schafer (NDJ. 8:31; Mechowski (W), 12':14: Johnston (WJ, 12:14: Larson (NDJ, 
12: 14; Bentley (W), major and mmor, 
tQ·f::i1  
SAVt:S  
Cathcart (SD) .... Makey. Attendance -8.431  . . 15 8  10 4  6--,'11 6-18  

WCHA Hockey 
Friday 
Wisronsin 5. Notn• Dam(' 4. owrtime Michtgan Stat<• 6, ~hch1gan Tech 2 !lht•htgan 7. Mmnesnta 6 North Dakota at Denwr. postponPd. 
butldmg condemned due to accumula­tion of snow on roof. 

ANNOUNCES YOUTH CARD NIGHTS 
Friday, Dec 8. 5:00-6:30 in South Dining Hall 
Monday, Dec.ll 5:00-6: 30 in North Dining Hall 
Get a free album of your choice for 
trading in a youth card from 
another Airline, or  for  buying  a  
\&W one.  
-­ 


caromed Jf an Irish stick and sailed /J~er goalie Mark Kronholm 's shoulder at 3:03 of the overtime period. "I'm satisfied with the win," 
said Badger coack Bob Johnson afterwards. "but we didn't execute wl'll. 'but I think that was because Notre Dame played well. They forechecked well, plaued the man well. Notre Dame's got a pretty good skating club. About the best skating club I think they've had." 
The first period was a cautious one for the ND sextet--as the new lines tried to get used to each other--and the Badgers took ad­vantage of NO's hesitance to forge a 2-1 lead. Talafous notched a power play goal at 5:27 to give the Badgers their initial lead, but 
.John Noble's line got the Irish hack into the game with a goal at 1!i :4:\. A sequence of slick passes from Noble to Ray DeLorenzi to Eddie Bumbacco gave Bumbacco thl' chance to beat Dick Perkins high. to the glove side. 
Tied at l-1 

The score remained knotted at 1­
much of the remainder of the 
period, but with just 10 seconds left. Badger defenseman Tom Nachowski fired a shot from the point and center Lloyd Bentley was there to net the rebound. 
Wisconsin's lead became 3-1 l'arly in the second period. The Irish had momentary difficulities in clearing the puck from their own zone. and the Badgers. Talafous made the lapse a costly one when. at I :47, he stole the puck from Bill Nyrop just to the right of the ND goal and lifted a shot ovr the fallen Kronholm. 
But again the Irish fought back. Pat ':'onroy banged in a rebound of 01 Les Larson shot at 8:54 and then six minutes later the Conroy Williams-Israelson line scored the (•qualizer. Conroy took a face-off ncar center ice. and zipped a pass to Williams. who was breaking down the slot. Williams then passed off to Israelson, who beat Pl•rkins with a 15-footer at 15:07. 
J<;<~ch team scored once Inthe final period. Norm Cherry put Wisconsin back in front with a shallow-angle shot at 10:30, but 1\1 ike Dunphy's first score of the 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 

Eddie Bumbacco's three-goal output made him the leading Irish scorer of :thl' wl'eRend series with Wisconsin. 
SPECIAL WEEKEND ROOM RATES FOR NOTRE DAME PARENTS OR VISITORS 
$6~i~le occupancy $B!~le occupancy 
No Notre Dame identification required. Effective any Fri., Sat. or Sun. thru June 15th, 1973. 
HICKORY INN MOTEL 
50520 U.S. 31 North South Bend, Indiana 46637 (219) 272-7555 3 miles North of the Tollroad 
Cable T.V., Air Cond., Phones. 
Send this ad to your parents 
ND/SMC THEATRE PRESENTS EUGENE IONESCO'S 
THE KILLER 
Dec. 8, 9, and 10 at 8:30 p.m. Washington Hall All seats $1.00 Washington Hall Box Office open 4:00-6:00 daily Reservations 283-7054 (not included in season subscription) 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
For Sale: 64 Ford Galexy 500, $250 WANTED Great condition, A real trucker! 
289·5940 
Men and women students needed 
to help get YWCA home for girls NOTICES ready to open. Some jobs are: painting, bunk beds, cleaning Typing: Essay.Term Paper·floors, moving furniture, etc. Thesis·Desertation·Technical · or 
Supplies are at the Home; just Research Report· We do them drop in and work.. 520 North professionally, efficiently ,'and . Lafayette. See Jay or JoAnn reasonably. Expert Secretarial 
Powell. Or phone 233-9491 and ask. Service. 233·9466 or 233·3257 for Carol Wilken. EUROPE! Lowest rates to· all 1 or 2 riders to Orange Bowl. European cities! Daily flights
Leaving Indianapolis Dec. 29. from N.Y., Chicago, D.C., Must share expenses. Call Jim Philadelphia and others. British 
259.9173 Overseas Airways Corp. Call Clark., 283·8810, for details. 
Ride needed to Colorado or New Mexico for Christmas vacation. Christmas Loans! Not due until Call Stf1ve. 1059 January 19th. Morrissey Loan 
Fund. Open until Dec. 13, Mon. Need apartment for one for next day.Friday 11:15-12:15, Lafortune 
semester. Preferably close to Basement. campus 8. CHEAP. Call Rick 8284, Chris 4964 or Larry.Paul 8276. Ride available Daytona·Ft.
Lauderdale Dec. 27. Call 8026 Wanted: 2 roommates. Off­campus, 5·bedroom housll. $50 Interested in participating in Gay mo. Call Denny 234·4259 Awareness discussion groups?
Write to Gay Awareness, care of Rider wanted to Oregon. 'Must The Observer, P.O. Box Q, Notre 
share expenses. Leave December Dame, Ind. 19. Call 233-3893 Gals, Earn $10 . $20 for 2 b:fiurs Wanted: Ambitious person or work from your home for aetails 
couple interested in earning good Call 272-8375 ' · Jart-time income. For Interview call Mr. Wells 272-8375 LOST AND FOUND·.'<: 
. :~
FOR SALE Lost: Rabl)it's Fur Hat !Mad· capl. Reward $10.00 Rosem('M.
Sell new Knelssl White Wing Skis Kerrigan. 2701 Lake Shore DriVe,185 em. bindings, sao, first call, Michigan City, Indiana 4636Q> 232·0627 
Lost Pink cameo ring_ Fri: Dec. 1.
Former Navy Officer has 
Call Beth 4679
uniforms for sale; call John 935­5214 Plymouth. 
Lost. 1 pair green girl's mittens 
Call Dan 8810
Noise makers for sale. Send name and telephone number to Box 685 ND, Indiana 46556 


the observer Monday, December 4, 1972 
USC's Davis demolishes Irish, 45-23 
Whv the best in the country.
by Jim Donaldson 

Southern Cal's 16th straight win,
Sports Editor 

coupled with Alabama's upset loss to Auburn. gave what coach JohnLos Angeles--Little Anthony McKay called his "best teamDavis staged one of the greatest ever" a pair of national cham­
individual performances in 
pionships. The U.P.I. is virtually
Southern California history 
certain to vote the Trojans theSaturday to lead the number one number one spot in its final pollranked Trojans past a game but todav and the members of thet•rring Notre Dame team, 45-23, !\1acArthur Bowl committee votedbefore 75,243 thrilled spectators in unanimously Saturday to awardthe Los Angeles Coliseum. 
their title trophy to U .S.C. The
A sophomore talkback who Trojans had previously won
stands 5'9" and weighs only 185 championships under McKay inpounds. David played like a giant 
1962 and 1967.

with wings, scoring six touch­Southern Cal didn't waste anydowns. two on kickoff returns of 97 time in making its bid for nationaland !lli vears. 
honors Saturday afternoon. DavisDavis gave Southern Cal a lead it stunned the Irish on the openingll('Ver relinquished by sprinting 97 kickoff. finding a seam in the~·ards with the opening kickoff and, coverage. breaking into the clearaft('r Notre Dame fought back at the 25 and sprinting the rest offrom a 19-3 deficit to within two the way to the end zone untouched.
points. 25-23, he broke Irish hearts Tim Hudnick was the only Notrewith another dazzling touchdown Dame player with a chance to stop rl'lurn. going 96 yards late in the Davis but Charlie Hinton and Edthird quarter. 
Pow('II prevented him from getting 
"[)avis just broke our backs," dos~. The Irish did recover from
N.D. coach Ara Parseghian said. 
their shock in time to block Mike"II is two long kickoff returns rPallv kill('d us. I'm sure we'd Hae's extra point attempt. 

have· won if he hadn't run that After an exchange on punts, second one back all the way." 
Notre Dame stuck back. Starting ''I'd rate Davis as super on at their own 18, the Irish took Sophomore QB Tom Clements was impressive through the air against 
kickoff returns." Parseghian advantage of an S.C. pass in­for 199 yards and three touchdowns. continued. "But I thought we terference penalty to get a first touchdown on their next series, and then skirted right end for the contained him pretty well from down at the 30. With Eric Penick <l ided by a pass interference score on the next play. Rae missed 
from the line of scrimmage" and Andy Huff doing the leg work, thP conversion attempt.
penalty against Reggie Barnett. mavis gained 99 yards in 22 Notre Dame then marched to the Starting at the 37 after a short But the Irish didn't quit. TakingTrojan 28 before stalling.
carries l. "The worst part about kickoff. Rae passed to Rod McNeill the ensuing kickoff. Notre Dame him is that we have to face him the Placekicker Bob Thomas came in for a first down at the N.D. 46. droYc 77 yards in 10 plays for a 
to try a field goal and connected
next two years." Arter Davis picked up five yards, touchdown. Clements' passing 
Not only did Davis score more from the 35 yard line to make it 6-3 played a big part in the scoring
ltae tried to uncork a bomb to Lynn touchdowns than any opponent in with 7:08 elapsed. Swann in the end zone. The pass march as he hit tight end Mike Notre Dame's 84-year football The Trojans countered that was there but Barnett fell into Creaney on a 16-yard play. flipped 
history. hut the Trojans' 45 points score by driving 63 yards for a Swann bdore the ball arrived and a nine yard pass to Huff, fired a marked the highest total scored the officials gave S.C. a first down screen pass to Gary Diminick that
Teom Statistics 

against a Parseghian-coached N.D. S.C. on the one. Davis went over left covered :l6 yards and then capped Irish squad. · FIRST DOW!IIS .. . 19 18 guard for the touchdown on the the drive with a third down, five­
Rushmg . II 9
Davis wasn't Notre Dame's only Passing .. .. .. 7 7 next play and Rae added the extra yard pass play to split end Willie nemesis. however. The Irish lost a Pt>naltrrs. . .. .. .. .. . I 2 point. Townsend. Thomas kicked the pair of fumbles, one of which cost YARDS RVSIIING ........... 200 182 Southern Cal's third touchdown, Pxtra point with 11:24 to go in the
Lost Rushmg . . .. .. .. 39 12
them a touchdown while the other Nel Rushmg . ....., . 161 170 near the end of the first quarter, half. cutting S.C.'s lead to 19-10. set up an S.C. score, a needless TI!IIES CARRIES ........ ·'. 51 41 was also set up by an Irish blunder. Neither team was able to score
PASSES 24 20 
pass interference penalty paved Completed . . . .. ....., .. .. 14 10 Deep in their own territory after before intermission but, in the 
the way for another Trojan touch­Had lntm:epted .. _.. .. .. .. 2 2 an S.C. punt. the Irish tried to second half. it was again theYARDS PASSI:IIG . . 199 150
down and two pass interceptions break out with an end sweep by Trojans. not the Irish, who came
TOTAL PLAYS .............. 75 61 were costly. Interceptions 2 2 Penick but the soph halfback out ready to play. Notre Dame 
Yards returned 2 28
As Parseghian pointed out, "The fum bled quarterback Tom received the kickoff and, after one
PUSTS. . . 6 5
rumbles. interceptions and the Puntmg al'erage. 40 32.6 Clements' pitch and the Trojans first down. a Clements pass in­interference call hurt us, too. You Punts rerurned 0 4 recovered just nine years from the tended for Diminick near the Yards returned 0 17
just can't make a lost of mistakes goal line. sidelines was intercepted by
Kickoffs returnedtyards 8-1:!2 4-218against a team like U.S.C." PESAL TIES/Yards . . ... 7-87 11)-93 After an incomplete pass, Davis !linton. who returned it to the Irish 
Just what is a team like U.S.C.? FV~BLES!lost ......... 3-2 .. ' 0.0 gained four vards off left tackle 25. 
A clippping penalty on the play moved the ball back to the 41 but that made little difference to the

Cogers bow to UM, 96-87 
Trojans. Rae whipped a 26-yard pass to Swann. Davis dartedby Vic Dorr Michigan's highly-touted Campy The Wolverines, though, were around right end for 11 yards andMichigan's Crisler Arena was Hussell. and it was Russell who not rattled bv their deficit at in­then went around the same side for the setting Saturday afternoon as drew most of the attention from the termission...·In 13 of our 14 con­

the Irish basketball team opened t1.673 Crisler Arena crowd. ference games last season," said four yeards and the touchdown to its 1972 season. but for second-year Orr. "we trailed at halftime, but put S.C. ahead, 25-10, with only 2:44 
The 6-8 forward hit on 9 of 18 field played in the third quarter.The
coach Digger Phelps and for his \n•nt on to finish 9-5 in the leagw~."
goal tries. and was one of the five
players. the new year began with Trojans tried a two-point con­
Wolverines in double figures, but 
some painful reminders of 1971. Orr knew what he was talkiing version. again with Davis running 
he found himself in early foul about. Two quick second-half
Notre Dame. while winning but to the left. He looked as if he might 
trouble. and finally committed his buckets by little Joe Johnson
six of 26 games in '71, frequently try a pass, but then tucked the ball 
fifth personal <along with a display robbed the Irish of their slim lead, 
played its best games against in and tried to run for the corner.
of temper technicall with 6:04 left and ND was able to regain the
highly ranked teams. They lost to lie was knocked out of bounds at
to play. upper hand on only one other oc­
1\larquette by nine points, and to the one. however. 
NO's sophs, on the other hand, casion--when Shumate stole an
Villanova by three in the last home Once again. the Irish battled
stayed in the game the entire way, inbounds pass and canned a
game of the year. back. Sparked by a first play
And Saturday, with thirteenth­and they kept the Irish in the game driving layup to give his team a 50­bomb from Clements to Creaneyuntil the waning minutes of the ·HI margin.
ranked Michigan as the opponent, that covered 36 yards and a 20-yard
second half. Gary Brokaw led the
the Irish again came close. The Garv Brokaw scored with six pass to Diminick, Notre Dame Wolverines won the game, 96-87, 
ND squad with 23 points--including minutes left to cut Michigan's moved to a first and 10 situation at!I of II from the free throw line--and hut th(' Irish led by two at halftime, margin to five, 77-72, but the the S.C. 11. Art Best gained eight was followed by John Shumate'shv one with 14 minutes left, and Wolves began to assert their board vards on first down but Huff was19. Gary Novak, a junior, had 16 fortrailed by only five with six strength after that, and pulled stopped cold on the next play.
ND. but the high point man for the
minutes remaining. , The 
away to an 85-72 spread before the 
game was Michigan's All­Clements tried a sneak on thirdWolverines used their superior Irish made their late-game surge.
American Henry Wilmore, who down that pushed the ball to thehoard strength--they held a 54-36 "Our mexperience hurt," .said
finished with 21 points. two. The Irish called a timeoutrebounding edge--to pull away in N!Ys Phelps. "We start four prior to the crucial fourth downthe closing minutes of the game, The game was a see-saw affair players who don't have a minute of and. momentarily, it looked as ifbut they were given a scare they throughout the first half. Both varsity experience, and with six the strategy was going to work asdidn't expect from the young and teams were slow-startil)g, and had 
minutes left we're in position to inexperienced ND squad, and U.M. eased into a 12-12 deadlock with 14 knock off one of the top teams in Best took a handoff and saw coach Johnny Orr was relieved to minutes remaining in the period. the country. Michigan beat us on daylight. But he never did get the 
handle on the ball and fumbled itmake off with a win. Michigan's Ernie Johnson and Ken the boards. and used all that away. Phillips recovering for the"Three years ago," remem­Brady--a 6-10 center--sparked the strength to come through when 

bered Orr. "We were struggling. Wolves on a 12-2 tear that saw they had to." Trojans at the one. 
Southern Cal moved out of theWe went to Notre Dame when them take a 24-14 lead, but that The Irish will attempt to even shadow of its.,goal with an 11 yardAustin Carr. Collis Jones, and margin didn't last long. their record tonight, when they pass to Edesel Garrison but thethose guys were there, and lost by The Irish came right back, and host another Big Ten team, the 

one point. Notre Dame was in that Gary Brokaw's three-point play Ohio State Buckeyes. The Bucks Irish regained possession two position today--trying to knock off gave ND its first lead with 1:50 
plays later when Mike Townsend 

were upset by Washington over the a ranked team--and they almost remaining in the half. But Wilmore weekend, but will still bring a intercepted a Rae pass at the did." converted a free throw to tie the powerful squad into their first Trojan 47. The game, which was the first of game again--this time at 33 all. It appearance in the A.C.C. Seven­This time, the Irish weren't to be 
the season for both teams, was also stayed that way until just before foot Luke Witte and hot-shooting denied. Clements, who finished the the varsity debut for five the buzzer, when Pete Crotty's southpaw Allan Hornyak, both day with 14 completions in 24 at­sophomores--four of whom started follow of a Dwight Clay miss sent seniors, will lead OSU. tempts for 199 yards, passed 15 for Notre Dame. The 'other' soph the Irish off with a 35-33 halftime Tipoff for tonight's game is set vards to Willie Townsend and Huff involved in the game was lead. for 8:00. burst up the middle for 14 to put the 
USC. Clements completed !4 passes 
hall on the 15. After Huff picked up 
four yard! on two carries, 
Cl('ments threw a swing pass to 
Diminick. who hauled it in on the 
two and ran into the end zone. 
Thomas kicked the extra point, 
and it was 25-16 with 9:26 gone in 
the quarter. 

It didn't take long for the Irish to 
g('t the ball back. Mike Townsend 
eame up with his tenth interception 
of the vear. an all-time Notre 
Dame record. at the S.C. 44 just 
three plays after the kickoff and 
the Irish started to move again. 
Staying on the ground. Notre 
Dame peunded to the 10 where, on 
second down and nine, Clements 
threw to Creaney, who made a 
great. diving catch for the touch­
down. 

A two-point conversion try failed 
when Steve Fate broke up a pass 
intended for Willie Townsend, but 
the momentum had clearly shifted 
to the Irish. 

It stayed there for all of 12 
seconds. That's how long it took 
Davis to take the kickoff following 
Creaney's touchdown and run 96 
~·ards for the score that decided the 
game. Fielding the ball at the four, 
Davis followed his blockers to the 
25. then broke outside. This time, Hudnick had a great opportunity to bring down the speedster but he missed a tackle at the Irish 40 and Mike Townsend couldn't quite trip up Davis with a diving try at the 20. After that. Davis romped to 
paydirt. And the game was all but 
over. 

"I said to the guys in the huddle 
to be sure and set up a wedge of 
blockers quickly, so we could try 
and get good field position," Davis 
explained. "But the outside lane 
was open. and I took it." 
"The last guy got a hand on me, 
but I wasn't going to let one hand 
bring me down." 

The Trojans added a pair of touchdowns in the fourth quarter, when the Irish were trying desparately to play catch-up football. but the scores were only so much insurance. Davis' second kickoff return had decided the issue. 
Davis ran eight yards for his sixth six-pointer at the outset of the final session and Cunningham completed the S.C. scoring fest with a one-yard dive 2:44 before the final gun. 
"I told my team that they played a good game," Parseghian said. "I told them they have nothing to be ashamed of." 
Despite the turnovers, the Irish did play well. They outgained the Trojans. 360 yards to 320, and ran more plays, 75 to 61. S.C. had nine more yards rushing ( 170 to 161) but Notre Dame had the edge in passing, 199 to 150, and had 19 first downs to S.C.'s 18. 
But. as Parseghian remarked, "Southern Cal can beat you in so many ways." Saturday, it was by Anthony Davis. 



