On The Inside 
J. Board manuals for­thcoming.... Page 3 
SMC Freshman hour­s ... Page 6 

serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 49 

This was the scene yesterday on the South Quad as the first big snowfall hit du Lac. Several 
students brave the cold and icy wind for a snowball fight. When snowballs fill the air can Christmas and vacations be far behind? 
HPC to~ settle hall fund allocations by next week 
by Jt>rry Bradley 
Starr Reporter 
Nine halls submitted their proposals for allocations from the Hall Life Fund last night at the Hall Presidents Council mPPting in St. Ed's Hall. Wednesday Pvening was established as the deadline for all submissions. The HPC hopes to have settled the hall allocations issue bpfore Thanksgiving vacation. 
Steve Jeselnick, executive coordinator of the HPC reported that the Food Service Advisory Committee is seeking HPC assistance to help provide for special Christmas banquet is scheduled for Dec. 13 and urged the Hall Presidents to initiate Pnthusiasm in their halls. There was no response from the Hall Presidents. 
Jeselnick also inquired if the halls would like to decorate the dining halls for the festive occasion. Again there was no response. 
Finally Jeselnick asked for volunteer Santa Clauses for a Dec. 14 cafeteria happening. The request was answered instantly by three hall presidents, in-eluding Tom "Animal" Cunningham who has two years experience in the trade. 
Terry Skeehan, co-president of Walsh Hall, asked the Hall Presidents if they would cooperate in a random sampling of ten students in their hall. The survey would find out student reactions to the possibility of renovating the L~Fortune Student Center. The Hall Presidents agreed unanimously. 

ThP Stay Hall Committee reported that it had been invited to the SLC Monday mPeting along with all of the members of the Council. 
Butch Ward, HPC chairman, also an­nounced that Dennis Etienne said that some of the COUP reports came out pretty good. Ward added, "I don't think we should be afraid to show them our books." 
Ward also encouraged the Hall Presidents to throw parties for the little kids in South Bend. Ward pointed out that there are many children's groups in the city that would appreciate a Christmas party. 
Fr. James Flannigan , the rector in Old College urged the Hall Presidents to discourage the students from taking part in any malicious snowballing incidents. 
A wine and cheese party for hall presidents and rectors was set up for Tuesday, Nov. 28. 
Wednesday November 15, 1972 

Fr. David Burrell speaks while Dr. Gerald Giantonio looks on... 
Burrell, Giantonio 
offer differing view-s 
of huJnan sexuality 
by Michael Charles Starr Reporter 
Dr. Gerald Giantonio and Fr. David Burrell presented sharply 
differing views on premarital sex and contraception in an open
panel discussion last night. 
Before a gathering of about 150 people in Washington Hall, Giantonio. the psychologicst, argued for an openness and frankness in discussion of sex, saying that premarital sex was good if adequately appreciated by the two persons, and if accompanied by the use of contraceptives. 
Burrell, the theologian, never explicitly opposed premarital sex under any conditions, but he counseled restraint, so that the in­tercourse would not be "an ego trip." 
"Everything has its season," noted the Theology DepartmentChairman. 
Giantonio said that if, after discussion, the unmarried couple believes they are ready for sexual intercourse, contraception should be used. This, he said, makes the sex act more secure, and thus enhances its value. 
During the question and answer period immediately following the lectures, Burrell stated he disagreed with the use of con­traceptives, feeling that it cheapened the act of sexual intercourse. 
Giantonio began the lecture with his personal views on sexual intercourse. He said he feels that sex should not be hidden but rather sex should be a subject of general knowledgeability and discussion. Parents, according to Giantonio, have continually failed in their responsibility to educate their children. 
Giantonio stated, "I learned one day at a bowling alley with my friends that newly married couples do more at Niagara Falls than watch the water." 
The problem . he said, begins with premarital sexual in­tercourse when it is a result of pure emotion. Intercourse should occur only after the couple have completely discussed .:nd con­sidered the action. 
He stated, "Intercourse should not be an ego trip." 
Intercourse, he said, is an intimate expression, which must be handled carefully. There is a basic need or desire for intercourse, but this must be tempered. He did not state how long this need must be tempered . 
Neither Giantonio or Burrell focused on direct sexual solutions or problems at Notre Dame. Both said they believed sexual ac­tivity at Notre Dame is normal. Giantonio commented that about 30 percent of the campus is now sexually active. 
Their presentation began a series of lectures on human sexuality. 
The series has been coordinated by the Campus Ministry as a reflection on co-education at Notre Dame and was moderated by Student Life Council Chairman Fred Giuffrida. 

... Then Dr. Giantonio takes his place at the lecturn. 
Steve Jeselnick addresses Hall Presidents Council meeting at St. Ed's. 

the observer Wednesday, November 15, 1972
2 
[ 
warld 
briefs 
((') 1!172 Nt>w York Times 
ND counseling insufficient 




Coed seniors dissatisfied , 
By Ann Therese Da1·in Cam(HIS Nt>ws Editor 

Although Sr. John Miriam Jones, assistant to the Provost, confirmed latP Monday evening that Notre DamP will mail St. Mary's seniors working for Notre Dame degrees dPfinite information on academic rPgulations and graduation by the <'nd of the week," deans, depart­mPnt chairmen and women students remain skeptical. 
After nearly a year with no information, not even formal acknowledgement from the University to the women that they would rec2ive Notre Dame 
degrees, Rev. Ferdinand Brown, associate provost, will send in­dividual letters containing the academic information to the 80 women affected later this week. 
St. Mary's academic vice­president Dr. William Hickey also plans to send the women a formal statement of the agreement reached with Notre Dame on their academic status soon. According to high level sources at St. Mary's' the meeting between Brown and Hickey. who negotiated the agreement, was prompted by Hickey, who had many questions which neither he nor Notre Dame department chairmen or deans 
.. Washington--The Pay Board, as expected, ordered payreductionsfor nearly 24,000 employees-of New York newspapers and 300 commercial printing companies. The board directed that payraisesof 11 per cent already in effect under existing contracts be trimmed to 8 per cent. At the same time, the price commission ordered the New York Times and theNl·wYork Daily News to scale back increases in advertising rates approved by the Commission earlier this year. 
Washington--Small towns that make a lucrative bu~iness of arresting and fining unwary motorists in speed traps may have that practice curtailed under a Supreme Court decision. The Court ruled that it was unconstitutional for a mayor to sit as a judge in traffic cases and collect fines when the money represented a major part of villa~erevenue. The majority, in a 7 to 2 decision, said speeders and other traffic violators were entitled to a more "neutral and detached judge." 
Nt>w York--J. Patrick Gray III, acting director of ·the Federal Bureau of Investigation, said that he and Southern Airways officials had jointly decided to immobilize Southern's hijacked jet in Orlando, Fla., Saturday, but that he personally had ordered that it be done by shooting out the tires. Capt. J. J. O'Donnell, head of the nation's airline pilots complained in a letter to President Nixon that the tire­shooting violated a government agreement not to disable an airliner without the approval of its pilot. 
('Ould answer. 
BPcause hl' is meeting both today and tomorrow on promotions, Fr. Brown was unavailable for comment. 
If the information is publicized latPr this wl'ek, it will come just in timl' to help the group of women who plan to complete Notre Dame degree requirements by January. 
Rl'action to the plan in which St. Mary's seniors receiving Notre Dame degrees would reportedly transfer to Notre Dame shortly before May graduation and receive grade point averages calculated strictly on Notre Dame cour­work, is mixed. 
"Notrre Dame wanted girls so bad, but they don't really care about us," voiced Sue Oglesbee, government major. "And at St. Mary's they keep saying that they treat you like individuals. But with 
all of these couselors and only a few hundred kids to counsel, there is no reason why our case wasn't decided long before this." 
According to Oglesbee, the only communication she has received from Notre Dame since last spring has been material from the Placement Bureau, Notre Dame Magazine's October Issue, and a letter asking her as a Notre Dame student to give to the United Fund. 


CRAIG KAPSON 
or LOIS TRANTER JORDON MOTORS 
295-1981 
For students and faculty 21 and over. 


"I'm getting a little tired of getting information from St. Mary's and then hearing somPthing second hand about Notre Dame which is con­tradictory and then we get blamed for not having the answer. It's not our fault," she continued. "And vour advisors ... they don't have ;my information either. You don't have an advisor at St. Mary's and you might as well not have one at Notre Dame!" 
Admitting he has not received any information since the ('Ou:rse ('himge plan over a year ago, G<'orge Brinkley, Government and International Relations depart­ment chairman, revealed he atnd Louis Tondreau, SMC government 
(continued on page 7) 
The Observer is published dail'y during the college semester eJ<· cept vacations by the students of the l'niversity of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptionts may be purchesed for $8 pE!r semester ( 14 per year) from the Observer, lox Q, Notre Dame, lndtana 46556. Second clas,f postage paid, Notre Dame, lnd; 
46556. 


WHAT'~; ON YOUR MIND? 
If keeping warm this winter has crossed your mind we want to remind you that we have a complete stock of jackets, sweaters, outercoats, scarfs, gloves, etc. All the latest sytle and all priced to please you. Stop by ... and tell us your
coldweather troubles. 

Exclusive! 
When you use your Campus Shop Account you never have to pay a service or carrying charge of any kind. Easy. 
ON THE CAMPUS ... NOTRE DAME 

3:00pm .. meeting, college of arts and letters college council, room 101-104 CCE 
3:30 pm .. lecture, 'consumer protection in consumer credit: myths and the realities' by dr. robert w. johnson, memorial library auditorium 
3:30pm .. coloquium, 'methods and problems in modeling social phenomena' by dr. robert j. merrill, rm. 303 engineering bldg. 
6:30 .. meeting, sailing club, 204 engineering 
7:00 .. spanish tutorial, regina hall lobby 
7:30 -·seminar, 'research findings of the national comm1ss1on on consumer finance' by dr. robertw. johnson, rm. 121, hayes healy center 
8 & 10 pm .. film, 'shadow of a doubt', engineering auditorium, $1 

at nll-smc 

Good $2.75 seats and some higher priced seats available through showtime at the ACC Ticket Office (9-5) daily. 
"LINDISFARNE is Britian's Best New Group 
-Melody Maker the new Yes album "Close to the Edge" will be featured tonight on WSND-AM-FM from 12:30­
2:00 am 



Wednesday, l\lovember 15, 1972 the observer 
3 
i
Distribution through hall rectors 
/AMERrcANEDucATroNAL 


1Board manual coming·~~~~~i~~i~~~~J€£~ 
by Jim Ferry Starr Reporter 

"Student Judicial Board Manuals will be distributed to the Hall Judicial Board via the Hall Hf'ctors very soon now," according to N.D. Judicial Coordinator, Greg Smith. 
Thf' purpose of the manuals is to 
"givf'  some  direction  to  the  
disciplinary  system  at  Notre  
Damf'."  

Each hall at Notre Dame has its own Judicial Board which is made up of students, who in the words of thf' manual, are "selected by hall members". 
"The primary concern of the board is to assure an atmosphere conducive to the individual's academic. social, and religious growth. Operative toward these goals is the philosophy of concern: students working together," reads 
by Connie Greiwe Starr Reporter 

Trying to pull the semester out of the freezer? Take a break Friday November 17th and go to the Chicano Festival, jointfy spon­sored by the Ladies of Notre Dame and First Unitarian Church Social Committees. 
The dinner-dance is a fund raising project for the Farm Labor Aid Committee <FLAC), sponsors of a nationwide lettuce boycott. FLAC's main objective at this time is to obtain pledges from people not to eat non-union lettuce. 
"It's the only possible means for 
migrant workers to gain political 
and personal power; to deltermine 
their own destiny," stated Mrs. 
Sandy PowPII. a FLAC member. 
Local Chicano women will pre-
Robbers brecEk in SU ticket of:fice 
by Pamela Gavelda Starr Heporter 

A robbery Nov. 10 cost the 
Student Union over $200 in change 
and money from ticket sales. A 
check for $1500 was also taken, but 
fortunately it was cancelled in 
time after the robbery. 
The Student Union did not 
release news of the robbery until 
now because they were clilecking 
out some leads. 
Large sums of money are not 
usually kept in the Student Union 
offices. The money was taken 
from a desk during office hours, 
and the door was not locked. 
Jim Schneid of the Student Union 
said that they had narrowed the 
time of the theft to a 15-20 minute 
period between three and four 
o'clock that afternoon. 
At the time this was wriUen, the 
Security Dept. had not been 
notified and knew nothing about 
the robbery, according to Security 
Director Arthur Pears. 
As a precautionary measure to 
prevent future thefts, Student 
Union will not keep money or 
checks in their offices. 
Judicial Boards exist to serve the .rom jurisdiction, ethical stan­hall community patientiy· and dards, and due process to appeal personally; while helping each procedures and probable sanc­person become more un­tions. derstanding of adult roles. It According to Smith, the Judicial strives to maintain the respon­manual ''will help the halls whose sibility of each student and to blend 
(continued on page 7)
individuals together to form the community. It serves to ensure 


PITT CLUB Presents
that the unique spirit and 
dedication of each student resident 
Paul Newman & -Robert Redford
is directed toward the broadening of the experience of community 
in 
living," continues th"e manual. "A student judicial system aims 
BUTCH CASSIDY 
and assists in instilling a sense of cooper'iltion among the members 


AND THE SUNDANCE KID 

Smith: manuals "will give some of the university community. direction to , the disciplinary While cooperation can be a very 
Fri. Nov. 17 
En~. Aud.

system at NO. pragmatic concept, it can also 
Sun. Nov. 19
b!'com<' a dynamic aspect of a 

Adm. 1.00
p!'rson's life. An atmosphere 
7:30 & 10:00 p.m.

thP manual. 
conducive to growth and 

members .50
"As a Christian community development can be brought intoNotrt' Dame is more than just 

THE NOTRE DAME·SAINT MARY'~ THEATRE
Pxistence because a sincere in­academically oriented. The Hall t<'rest in community matters is 

announces
:aken by those who truly desire to 
TRYOUTS FOR
•val 


NEW AND USED DISCOUNT PAPERBACKS 
Mon-Fri (202) Sat 9:30-5:30 1785-4511 10-2 2430 PENNSYLVAIIfiAAve. IIIW Wash DC 20037 AREA DIRECTORS WAN'TFn 
cooperate. This Judicial Manual is Pstablished, therefore, not to be a 
John Bowen's

Chicanos plan festI 
n!'cessarily limiting factor or an 

AFTER THE RAIN pare a dinner of tacos, beans beer alienating one. but rather to help and sangria to be served at S:OO. d!'velop a spirit 01 ......__,...oeration 
Sunday, Nf)vember 19 at 1:00 p.m. Dancing will begin at 9:00 with lPading to the ultimate goal of a 
Monday, No"ember 20 at 7:00 p.m.

music provided by a Chicano group 'creativesocialliving environment." 
Callbacks--Tuesday, November 21 at 7:00 p.m.

and local rock band the Greased 
Lightning. ' 
The festival will be held at the 

First Unitarian Church, on the 
corner of Michigan Street and 
North Shore Drive. Tickets are 
available at the door; adults $2.50 
and children $1.00. 
250 ND students apply for summer 
job placement 
by Jim Gresser Staff Reporter 

Two hundred and fifty ap­plications signify the "great success" of the Summer Job Placement program, according to Jim Clarke, Student Government Research and development Commissioner. 
Under this program, any student 

can fill out an application for a 
summer job and the Student 
Government and the University 
Alumni Office will assist in ob­
taining the employment. The 
deadline for applications is this 
W Pdnesday, Nov. 15. Applications 
may be obtained in the Placement 
Bureau in room 222 of the Ad­
ministration Building.
A Student Government com­

mittee will sort the applications 
according to job interest and 
geographical location on Thur­
sday. The applications will then be 
presented to Mr. Jim Cooney of the 
Alumni Office. Cooney will then go 
to different regions of the country 
and try to find jobs for the 
students. 
Clarke said that "most students 

are showing a definite need for 
jobs." 
Clarke also spoke on the 

possibility of continuing the 
program in future years. "So far it 
has been a great success. The 
prospects for continuing the 
program look exceptionally good." 
Th<'  manual  was  written  last  
spring  by  Hall  Judicial  Board  O'LAUGHLIN  AUDITORIUM ....SAINT  MARY'S  
chairmen themselves. The manual deals with everything  OPEN TO ALL ND-SMC STUDENTS  

~------------===========================~ 
THIS WEEK AT THE ALUMNI CLUB 

WILD WEDNESDAV 
OPEN 4-2 A.M. 


THIRSTY THURSDAY 
Paul Jones Whiskey and mix _25 ¢ Mattinglyemoone Bourbon Wolfschmidt Vodka and mix -!h price OPEN 8-1 A.M. 

FRIED FRIDAY 
Senior Death March end at the Club for HAPPY HOUR 4-5:30 75¢ Beers OPEN 4-2 A.M. 


SUCCESSFUL SATURDAV 
Pre-Game Special Bloody Mary's & Screwdrivers 2 for $1.00 OPEN 10 A.M. till Game Time After Game till 2 A.M. 







OBSERVER 
COMMENT 
Wednesday, November 15, 1972 Page 4 

DutantheVVeekend Emily Post at the Hockey Game 
bab hil)l)ins 

With the ensuing close of the 1972 football season, Notre Dame's great number of genuine sports mthusiasts and also those who take a more passing interest can begin to turn their attention toward the outstanding winter sports program provided by the Midwestern Clearinghouse of Athletics. 
Notre Dame's "other" winter sport, hockey, which is threatening to make basketball secondary, already has begun its exciting season. 
Now I do not purport to claim any expertise in this sport, however my knowledge is by no means limited. Having been a fan for twelve years and an active participant in hockey in my high school days, I feel I may be able to provide a service for those not so well acquainted with the game. 
For, just as concerts and bars and football games and movies have their own rules of "etiquette" so too, the greatest of all sports, hockey, has rules to be folowed by the lady and the gentleman. 
My first bit of advice, and the single most im­portant piece, is to completely disregard ~ny behavior patterns displayed by the fans attendmg games one may have seen on television. If this presents a problem, the N.D. hockey fan should repeat to himself as often as is necesssary, "The fans on television are professional hockey fans, I am an amateur hockey fan ... " 
Keeping that in mind we shall proceed with the remainder of the rules. As is the case in all other Notre Dame social events, the "in-tune" guy and gal will be sure to arrive late for the game. Do not allow the fact that the games always start on time to interfere with this essential aspect of the enjoyment of the game. Also, disregared any snide c~11_1ments directed at you by irate spectators whose v1s1on you have impaired on the way to your seats. . . 
Now that the couple is comfortably settled m theU' seats and he has removed the interhall tennis jacket that he borrowed from his roommate, they are ready to settle back and enjoy the second period. 
Hockey is a complex game which requires 

knowledge of a few basic terms in order for the fan 
to understand the game. 
First Goal, 1. The area into which a player at­tempts 'to propel the puck in order to score. 2. The act of scoring itself. 
Now whereas in most hockey circles a home team player is cheered when he accomplishes the very difficult task of scoring a goal, Notre Dame fans seem to have a different outlook. Instead of applauding the effort of the Irish player that has scored, the chic approach is to ridicule the op­position goaltender <player responsible for the prevention of opposition goals) for his lack. of superhuman ability to prevent the goa} f~m bemg scored. This is done by a repeated recitation of the word "sieve." Sieve <the opponent's goaltender). 
Should you be so unwise as to regard the goal 

scored as unavoidable because of the superior play 
on the part of the Notre Dame player you will be 
considered an outcast by the rest of your fellow 
hockey enthusiasts. Remember the following 
universal truth: "All Notre Dame goals are scored 
because the opponent's goaltender in a complete 
idiot who donned his first pair of skates this week. 
There is a good chance that his blades are double­
runners." 
Now, once a goal has been scored, true and loyal 

Notre Dame fans will litter the ice with any and all forms of waste. Hot dogs are conveniently provided by the ACC for this purpose, however should you choose to toss other mementos, such as a sieve, it is suggested that you bring these with you. This is probably the most important aspect of the rules as far as impressing a date i;;; concerned. 
While littering the ice, be sure to disregard the repeated public address reqeusts to refrain from doing so. Also never let it enter your mind that a New York Ranger <Rod Gilbert if my memory serves me correctly) once was lost for a season and required extremely serious spine surgery to remove and fuse a disc, slipped while skating at a high speed over something thrown onto the ice by an over zealous fan. 
Regardless of the extent of one's knowledge of the game, there will be times when a rule violation is called that is not immediately comprehendable. Here etiquette requires one to turn to the person next to him and repeat in unison, "That ref is un­velievable, I don't know where they get officials like this for collegiate hockey." 
Lest we not stagnate our enjoyment of the hockey game, I would humbly suggest a few new actions to enhance our appreciation of the sport. Harassing opposition players in the penalty box is always fun but we need a new twist.. Even banging on the gllass until the player turns around and then flashing obscene signs at him from behind the protection of the plexiglass has gone out of style. I would submit that someone should throw a skunk into the penalty box with the opposition player, forcing him to vacate the box before his time is served and then leaving the official with no choice except to penalize him again for not completely serving his first penalty. 
Secondly, in the true spirit of ridiculing the op­position, I would suggest that loyal fans should litter the ice with crutches upon the injury of an opponent. 
Shouts of "Take him out and shoot him," could accompany this display. 
Perhaps the best suggestion is to develop a new cheer. Since we are accustomed to shoulting "sieve" upon the scoring of a goal, perhaps, if an opponent gets cut (a common occurance in hockey) we could take up the chant of "he-he-hemophiliac." 
But seriously speaking, hockey coach "Lefty" Smith feels that, "too many serious accidents can be caused by littering the ice." He spoke to me of a friend "who almost became a one-armed man because of something someone had thrown on the ice." 
Neither does he care for ridiculing the opposition. "I would much rathersee,"he says, "the students cheer like mad for us and disregard the opposition." 
He hastens to add that he is "delighted with the student enthusiasm this year." 
So are a lot of us who love the game, Lefty, but sometimes we are ashamed by the antics of our well-meaning fellow students. I realize that fan reaction in other cities is no better than what we have shown but don't feel that is a legitimate ex­cuse. Hockey is definitely on its way at Notre Dame, let's not thwart its progress by the antics of ignorant fans. Display the same class shown on the ice by the Irish players in your behavior in the stands. The coach, the players and everyone who loves hockey will appreciate it. 

Eurapean Trippinr:~ 


The Roman Striders 

ann mccarry 
HonH', Italy--Tall cypress trees picket the western sky. On the left 

rises the Palatine Hill, the Roman Forum majestically illuminated 
against the night sky. Under foot ancient gravel crunches as a small 
group of athletes circle the amphitheater where Ben Hur once raced 
his chariot. 
Little did Bob Kelly know, upon founding the Farley Striders two 

years ago, that one day his road runners would stride in the C'ircu~ 
Maximus. Today, however, a dedicated group of the student b.ody IS 
perpetuating the Strider traditi~n. in Rome. Do~ Wic~, an. ~r1gmal 
Strider, began this Roman. tradition when he Willed h1s official road 
runner t-shirt to an old man he met in Saint Peter's one day. 
"There was a Rome extension last year and we wanted to continue 

it, "explained Roman Strider president, Stephano Waymel. "Bein~ a 
true blue Farley Strider, I got together last vear with a bunch of k1ds 
who were coming over," Stephano continued, "and we decided to keep 
up the club's international membership." 
20 Members of Roman Striders 
Strider secretary Patty Dunn reports a membership of ap­

proximately twenty students and faculty members. Three-fourths ~f 
this number usually show up for the bi-weekly runs. Rumor has 1t 
that there are a greater number of female striders in Rome than there 
were male Striders at Farley last year. Both Stephano and Patty 
refused to comment on this report, but agreed it might be due to the 
over-abundance of pasta in the Italian diet which makes weight 
reduction nearly impossible. 
"I think the running spirit here is great!" said Patty. "The looks, 

stares, andbewilderedexpressions on the faces of the Romans make it 
much more fun and a lot more interesting and worth while.'' 
Fun Starts at Tiziano 
The fun starts in front of the Hotel Tiziano, located on one of Rome's 

busiest streets, with a warm-up round of calisthenics at ten o'clock 
sharp. Passing motorists gape as the Striders run through jumping 
jacks, windmills and push-ups. Others stand and stare as the group 
dashes off into the Roman night headed for the Pantheon, the 
Colosseum or the Trevi Fountain. En route, the Italian reaction 
varies. from the shaking heads of the old men selling roasted chesnuts 
on the street corners to the children's shouts of "Presto! Presto! 
<Faster! Faster!") . Some ask if the club is in training for the next 

Olympic games. A few mutter obscenities. 
A major decision involves the destination of the troop: across 

the Tiber to the Vatican? ... under the arch of Constantine? ... around 
Trajan's column? Many prefer that each run feat~re a n~w route .as it 
is the only time they can afford to take out of their studies fm sight­
seeing. 
The Farley Striders are also always trying to inl<'rest new 

people in their growing organization. By stressing the arguments 
for physical fitness, stimulation and social mjoym<'nl, the en­
thusiastic group has been rewarded with a large and loyal following. 
Pope Paul VI Official Member 
One Roman member an official Farley Strider road runner t­

shiro owner has v~t to turn out for any of the: bi­
weekely exc~rsions, however, But, maybe if we: run down to Saint 
Peter's tomorrow night , we can stop and ask His Holiness if he would 
like to stride along. 
-----Si~:------------------~ 

the observer 
Managing Editor: Joe Abell


fiarry lrudeau 
News Editor: Anthony Abowd St. Mary's Editor: Maria Gallagher Editorial Editor: Jerry Lutkus

.:c Sfl{.() 111M /A}f7H MY features Editor: Rod Braye OWN 6Yc5! H6 /11115 Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson Campus Editor: Ann therese Darin
lC'flN/NG Ofi&R M0 
Associate Editors: Bob Higgins, Ed Ellis
L.CXJK!NG IN HY HOtJrH 
Special Projects Editor: Dan Barrett
A!IIJ {'0/JNTJNfJ ljY 
Nite Editor: Jack Frischkorn 

. \ Cllfl11le5. A'sst. Nite Editor: Sue Pren­dergast Layout: AI D'Antonio Sports Nite Editor: Stan Urankar Typists: David Rus, Howard Halle, Dianne Chermside, Mary Romer Nite Controller: John Flannigan 
Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the 
opinion of the individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 

A very busy week of days and nights for the Jesus people 
by Joseph Abell Managing Editor 
St•t·ond in a S('J'ies 

A group of tired, hungry evangelists came into the small hamburger stand. The "Great Golden Arches" were ignored in the haste for good and drink, and once received. the group sat down and prayed over the meal. 
A man. having gone back for seconds for his wife, watched these proceedings with mild curiosity. Finally, he walked over and, spotting the friendly "Hi, y'all!" badges over their left breasts, asked who the group was. He was invited to join them for a few minutes as they explained Explo and Jesus Christ. 
A member of the Explo group later told the story: "We had only told him the glory of the Lord for a few minutes. and he received Christ and he committed his life to Jesus right there in the middle of the restaurant!" 
Explo '72 -a week-long, intensive training session for young evangelists. A big week for Campus Crusade for Christ, sponsor of the 75,00-delegate convention, and especially a big week for Jesus Christ in the city of Dallas. The days were spent in meetings of both sermonizing and instruction in the arts of evangelizing, especially taking the form of "witnessing" to the citizens of Dallas. The nights were something else. 
After dinner came the big extravaganza: the Cotton Bowl meetings. At 7:00, all 75,000 delegates gathered at the famous stadium to hear speakers such as Bill Bright and Billy Graham . Mass singing, clapping and cheering accompanied the inspiration messages, after which the delegates wre invited to visit various exhibition booths set up in other buildings at Fair Park. 
... Find your place in the Son! Come to the lntercristo Information Center in the Electric Building today! Bring $3 and let the job-matching computer go to work for you so you can go to work for Christ ... 
And finally, on Saturday, the massive Jesus Music Festival held on the deserted construction site of the Woodall Rogers Freeway. For some four-five hours, Kris Kristofferson, Johnny Cash, Love Song and The New Folk sang praises to Jesus and lead the crowd, estimated at over 150,000 people, in song-fests, clap­ping and praying. Speeches from Bright and Graham highlighted the occasion, which brought Jesus People from most of north Texas and parts of Arkansas and Oklahoma. 
"I saw one kid kinda perched on top of a No Parking 
sign. I guess he just wanted to hear Kris Kristofferson 
better. I yelled to him to come on down before he hurt 
himself, and besides wasn't he uncomfortable? He 
yelled back that Jesus wouldn't let him get hurt, and he 
was doing his part of the bargain by being un­
comfortable." 
The delegates adhered to the schedule of Explo '72, if only because there would have been little else to do if they did not attend the meetings. For the most part, they seemed to be content to just spend the week witnessing the Word. Few employees of motels, restaurants and at Fair Park were spared the earnest attempts of delegates, and many were approached several times per hour. The delegates had come with a 

photos by lorry reese, 
courtesy the dallas morning news 
An abandoned freeway .•. 
project in Dallas became the site of the giant Jesus Music Festival, attended by an estimated 150,000, that climaxed the week-long Explo 
'72. 

mission, and that was to take God's Word to the entire world. And Dallas was their training ground. 
A curious aspect of the happening was the emphasis on the Campus Crusade philosophy. Campus Crusade literature, records, tapes, and paraphenalia, including everything from Four Law packages-of-ten to Jesus buttons, bumper stickers and gloves, abounded everywhere. Outside each meeting hall was a lobby crammed with stands and booths selling materials to "take Explo training home." Reminiscient of the merchants in the Temple, Campus Crusade pulled in hundreds of dollars a day. · 
The seminars were solely based on Brights' teachings. The delegates were given specific in­structions on how to share the Four Laws and help someone receive Christ into their life. Bill Bright's face beamed from thousands of pamphlets and he was quoted daily by delegates. 
Newspaper reports told of many incidents of discrimination of other groups at the Explo meetings. Both the Pentecostal Student Fellowship International and the Children of God sects charged Explo officials of barring their groups because they did not agree with Campus Crusade ideology. 
The Cotton Bowl crowd was large this night, but not rowdy; indeed, they were never anything. but cooperative and polite to everyone. Various groups were singing or quietly chanting and praying, all waiting for the activities to begin. 
The ten delegates chose this moment as the best possible one to urge the con ventton to ertdorse dn anti­war stand. They unfurled a large banner reading "Stop the war, in the name of Jesus." 
After no one looked their way for fifteen minutes, they took down the banner and put it away. 
But despite this emphasis on a single philosophy, the delegates were of every creed imaginable. Catholics, Methodists, Episcopalians, Lutherans, even a group called Jews for Jesus, mixed with one another in a huge, unprejudiced, undiscriminating melting pot. 

Once again, the theme of "Jesus--One Way" and the upraised index finger provided a basis for unity. Bibles were carried often and a few times were heard arguments, calm and collected, concerning a certain passage. Oftentimes an impromptu class would be held with one delegate telling others of his religion's interpretation. And always were found isolated delegates quietly and seriously in a corner studying an important verse. 
The future was planned also, as the end of the week neared. Books and flyers were passed out and discussions were held on "Operation Penetration," a follow-up program to Explo. Each delegate was to take his training and experience at Explo back to his own city and continue the witnessing he began in Dallas. The delegates were also challenged to en­courage five people each to take part in training in Campus Crusade evangelism offered around the country and those five would find five more so that an "ever-widening circle" of people would become "ef­fective witnesses for Christ," eventually evangelizing 

-
the entire world by 1980. Materials were also provided for the delegates, such as numerous sets of slides and charts for presentation to church groups and tapes of Bill Bright discussing his program for instruction in the Campus Crusade method. Great volumes of literature were also passed on to the delegates to pass on to prospective witnesses, including a schedule check-list for each delegate's personal ministry. 
Explo '72 was an incredibly risky gamble. The Campus Crusade organization did what they could as far as arrangements were concerned and literally prayed for luck on the rest. And it seems that that prayer was heard, for the convention came off with only minor problems. The great masses of people cooperated to the utmost, expressing their feelings through their "acts of Christian love" and sacrifice. Their enthusiasm, kindness, and orderliness prompted congratualatory editorials from both major Dallas newspapers and complimentary comments from Dallas officials and citizenry. 
Whether or not the Campus Crusade future plans will pan out is unknowable, as it depends upon the in­dividual delegates, rather than the group as a whole. Plans have been set for a second Explo in 1974 in Korea, and other projects in relation to Explo '72 are being planned across the country. But all that is in the future. 
Explo '72 happened last summer in Dallas. 75,000 young evangelists aren't likely to forget it. Neither will Dallas. 
The young janitor walked away from the man slowly. 
He had listened to him, had thanked him and flad ac­
cepted the literature offered. He was still "un­
converted;" much patient listening to other Explo 
delegates had hardened him to that. But one thought 
kept passing in and out of his brain: " ... I've been 
praying for you ... " 
His feelings were strong then. Not strong enough to 
commit his life to Christ, to spread the word of Jesus 
through Bill Bright's means, to even "receive" Christ 
into his soul; just strong enough to impress him. 
Tomorrow: Another big evangelistic,push coming up: Key 73 is the most ambitious effort yet and needs no less than cooperation of nearly all churches, Protestant and Catholic. Also: What does all this emphasis on evangelism, Jesus Christ and youth add up to? Is it just a giant revival? Or is it a great general conversion? Three church and secular spokesmen give their views of the Jesus Revolution. 

------------------~---------------------------------­
the observer Wednesday, November 15, 1972
6 

Little BirJ Screen 
Patton coming to TV Sunday 



art f•rranti 
The weekend presents a war llick that ranks in the annals of great movie making. Patton marches onto the tube with all its grandeur and spectacle Sunday at 
8:00 on 28 for 3•/2 hours. This 1970 film took just about every Academy Award it had been nominated for, including best picture and best actor for Scott (who, for those with short memories, refused it. It stands in the Patton museum in Texas). 
This film presents the most £>compassing biography of the 
g£>neral. Scott absorbed reels of 
true footage and returned them 

t worn out due to his running them 
t 
so many times to get down all the mannerisms of the general. 
• 
Witness, for example, his opening speech. watch the walk, and listen 
to the delivery. That is not Scott, 

I 
~ that is Patton. The only thing Scott could not do was to emulate the general's high pitched voice. So he "gravelled" his instead. The £>ffect is the same, if not better. As l informed you a few weeks ago the 
general's language will not be censored. 

It took George Patton five years to graduate from West Point but he later was named the most daring 
periment  that must be reviewed  
this  year  by  the SMC Board of  
Regents.  


SMC freslunen W"ant self-responsible hows 
by Marty Miller Staff Rt>porter· 
St. Mary's Freshman Kay Thomas has organized the Com­mittee for Self-Responsible Hours to answer the question of hours for second-semester freshman. 
The decision to lift mandatory hours last year was an ex­
"I think we'll be mature and well-adjusted enough to decide when we should be back at our dorm," declared Thomas, chairman of the committee. 
The committee has distributed evaluation questionnaires to 277 returning sophomores who maintained self responsible hours in the experiment last year. To date, 138 of the questionnaires have been compiled and 87 percent feel that having no hours made them more independent and self responsible by making them en­force their own curfew. 
"We need at least a 90 percent turn out of the surveys," said Thomas. The results of the success of last year's experiment in self­responsible hours will be presented to the Student Life executive committee of the Board of Regents, on January 10. 
If passed, Sr. Ellen Delores, chairman of the Student Life committee, will present the question with recommendations, to the full Board of Regents meeting army commander in American mili'tary history along with Stonewall Jackson. He exploded across Africa with the Fifth Army and defeated Rommel. He was later disgraced for slapping a G.I. After a-formal apology he received the Third Army and wreaked havoc with the German Army in France. He liberated 12,000 cities and towns, inflicted a million and a half casualties, and claimed that if he had not been halted by his superiors he could have captured B('rlin ten days before the Russians. He loved the battle and with no war to fight, he died in an auto accident December 20, 1945. To quote Scott as he walks off by the windmills (a Ia Don Quixote) " ... all glory is fleeting." 

The battle scenes are magnificent in scope and spec­tacle, Patton looms out in his beginning speech in front of the flag. However, the television screen may not be able to ac­comodate the majesty of the film To alleviate this, try to watch it in color and completely and vicariously experience the film. Only then will the power of the film break through the confines of the little screen. So lay your books aside, sit down, and enjoy Patton. 
in early February. 
"We don't expect any problems of it being passed, but then, we don't sit on the Board," said Miss Cathy Mulaney, St. Mary's Dean of Students. · 
'I'm in favor of self-responsible hours for second semester. I think they are valuable in helping the first semester freshman adjust to college life," Mulaney stated. "But by second semester I think they should exercise upperclass privileges, with parental consent," she added, "and last year 90 percent did get parental ap­proval." 
Other statistics have been compiled concerning the success of the experiemnt of self-responsible hours. St. Mary's Health Service reported that the general health of the freshman class improved second semester oflast year. "The grade-point did drop some, but that could have been caused by the un­merger," said Thomas. 
Dr. Martucci, psychologist and Director of Counseling Services at St. Mary's, reported that the no­hours policy did not seem to cause any special guidance needs. 
Denise Hagarty, assistant chairman of the Committee for Self-Responsible Hours, argued that many of the freshman didn't know that last year's self responsible hours was only an experiment. "We assumed that we'd be given the same privileges as last year's freshmen." 

Different Cultures-Strange Food-Tough Work-Long Hours-No Pay-Except, What God Gives You. 
For information on our missionary life, write 
FATHER TOM STREVELER, SVD DIVINE WORD COLLEGE DEPT. E95 EPWORTH, IOWA 52045 
Include age, education, interest, address, etc. 
DIVINE WORD MISSIONARIES 
NBC has John Wayne slated in Tlw Grt>t'n Bt>rets on Saturday at 
9:00. The Duke plays a Col. Kirby and leads a band of Green Berets (including David Janssen) through the jungles and battles of Vietnam. 
It is long on gore (killing the £>nemy in the most bestial man­ners l ·and short on plot. So fo:r the action fans who wallow in blood, tune in. The significance (if you could call it that) of this film is that it was the only pro-war flick to come from Vietnam. It attempts to stay free from aming statements, but by its brutality it does. 
And on Friday we again see John 
Wayne in McClintock! horse 
opera. This 1963 film--and a rerun 
on TV--features Wayne as awPalthy 
ranch owner out to win back his 
wife played by Maureen O'Hara 
(natch'l. It's played for laughs 
and is an entertaining and light 
flick. (In case you haven't noticed, 
that's three Wayne movies in one 
wt>ek, t>ach on a different network-­
don't forget Trut> Grit last night). 
Thursday on 22 (note that this column seems to be progressing in r£>verse day-wise) Truman Capote's harrowing drama In Cold Blood premieres. Based on fact, this film traces the joy-killinJl[ of a family in Kansas in November of 1959 by two men who had originally wanted to just rob them of a small fortune. If I remember correctly, they stole less than $50.. 00. Foilowing a small lead the police finally track them down. The film­-in black and white--ends with their l'Xecutions afger years of waiting on death row. Robert Blake and Scott Wilson protray the killers, picked due to their striking resemblances to the real :murderers . The blood spills at 

Becker C A Review Course 
Indianapolis (317) 547-9971 
9:00. 
Paul Newman fans can delight in Tlw Lt>ft Handed Gun with the future Butch Cassidy playing it 
straight as Billy the Kid. Pat Garrett gets him at 11:30 on 22 tonight. 
Trivia After 14 years "Bonanza" 
is getting cancelled. The move to 
Tuesdays and the death of Dan 
Blocker were too much for the 
show. The Cart wrights ride off 
into the sunset for the last time in 
January. "The Bold Ones," 
"Night 'Gallery," and "Banyon" 
have also been axed. "The Bobby 
Darrin Amusement Co." which 
had good ratings will replace the 
late show. "The Sunday Night Mvstery Movie" will be lengthened to' two 'hours with a Jack Webb produced show "Escape" filling in the shows that are still 90 minutes long and yet to be run. A movie will replace "Bonanza" and "The Bold Ones" time block. 
Active College Program Weekly activities & Bible study Everyone Welcome 
Call: 272-2040 272-2153 283-7986 
Transportation Available Grace Baptist Church 19637 DuBois Sunday School ... 9:30am Morning Worship ... 10:30 am 

says 
When it comes to pianos. we will do just about anything. , If wa can't dO it. we will try to find someone who does. 
Call me now for an appointment 674-9335 
Osceola, Indiana 
Quality Tuning and Repairing 
NOTRE DAME-SAINT MARY'S THEATRE 
presents 



SUMMER AND SMOKE 
Tennessee William's beautifully fragile drama of frustrated love 
Washington Hall Notre Dame campus 
Nov.10, 11, 16, 17, 1BatB:JOpm 
Students $) jO Phone Reservations 284-4176 

For College Men Wh.o ThinkThey Can Lead, And Are ·willingTo Find Out For Sure 
FJ-eshmen, Sophomores ~L Juniors 
Platoon Leaders 
aass Growtld orAir 
Seniors &Gtraduates 
Officer Candidate 
aass 
Growtld or Air 
No on-campus training • Eligible members receive $100 a month for each of the 9 months of the school year • Free civilian flight instruction for eligible members of PLC Air program • Freshmen and sophomores attend two six-week SUJI!Dler sessions at Officer Candidates School, Quantico, Virginia • Juniors take one extended session in summer before senior year • Commissioning on day of college graduation • All officers then attend six-months of advanced leadership training at The Basic School, Quantico • Aviation officers report directly to flight school for jetorhelicopter training after Basic School. 
No on-campus training • After college graduation, candidates attend Officer Candidates School, Quantico, Virginia • Upon commissioning, all officers report to The Basic School, Quantico, for six months' advanced training • All Marine ground officers state the occupational fields they prefer, and in three out of four cases they get their first choice • Aviation officers report to flight school for jet or helicopter training. 


Ask A ~Iarine About Leadership •.• And Learn Something About YourseH 
DINING HALLS NOON & EVENING MEALS TODAY THI~OUGH FRIDAY 
The Marines are looking for a few good men 
• 

Wednesday, November 15, 1972 the observer 
7 





Senior records disorganized 
(continued from page 2) 
department chairman, inprovtse as they go along. 
"I don't even have any records for the women that I am supposed to be recommending for degrees. I thought that we had an agreement that I was supposed to get them or at least receive copies. But, I was told that the records had to stay over there even though the girls had to fulfill Notre Dame degree requirements,"' · he :said '. 
To illustrate the lack of. organization which envelopes the situation, Brinkley cited the degree eligibility list. Emanated from Hickey's office at SMC the lists did not contain a lot of names. which we knew were eligible, He (Hickey) said this list was ac-I ceptable by Fr. Burtchaell. They were so absolute about the deadline for submitting names for Pligibility and then they were so lax in emitting names," he recalled. 
"I try hard to find information out for the girls, but no one here knows anything. We don't get any information from a higher level," he asserted. While Brinkley is responsible for a large group of I women petitioning the university for degrees (18), other advisers' concur with his analysis of the situation. 
"I don't ever recall getting any official statement about the senior girls," commented Ronald Weber, American Studies department chairman, to six St. Mary's seniors. "Really the students have told me more information than the administration. They seem to have more information than me. When I am asked questions by the girls, I just have to reply 'I don't know.' what degree requirements' they must fulfill, where they are getting their degrees, whether they can take courses. I assume so. But, I just don't know." 
John Berkowski, psychology department chairman, was not 
Manual will he~lp weak hall J Board£ 
(continued from page 3) 
Boards are inadequate." 
He cited both Alumni and Morrissey as having "very good" Judicial Boards. 
"The Manual would help the Halls without an adequate Board. It would help them to sit down and decide exactly what's to be done." 
Smith said that there "aren't a great number of cases brought to the Hall Boards." 
"None of the Boards actively police the Hall. Each has its own mind and direction." 
"Everyone benefits from a good judicial system in the sense that it provides the students with a stronger voice when going to the administration with proposals such as co-educational and academic and residence halls." 
Smith also cited the Trustees complaint concerning parietal hours when he stated, "Their greatest reason for the re­
('mphasis of parietal hours was the lack of a good judicial system within the halls." 
"In this way, the judicial system takes on a very real presence and concern with each individual student in that it may radically affect his own lifest~le." 
in concert 

THURSDAY NOVEMBER30 7:30pm Tickets: $4.50 (advance, $5.00 
door) Available at Morris Civic Box 
Office 
and Pandora's or call 8253. 
MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM 
219 N. Michigan Ave. Downlown South Bend 232-6954 
even sure how many SMC seniors would receive ND psychology degrees or whether they would be responsible for a comprehensive exam or senior thesis. ·At St. Mary's, a comprehensive is required for graduation. At Notre Dame. it is not. 
Many of the chairmen coun­seling St. Mary's-Notre Dame half­breeds refer them to Assistant Dean of the Arts and Letters College Richard J. Thompson. Earlier this semester, his office caused slight pandemoniun by countering a St. Mary's sup­position: women woule follow St. Mary's degree requirements even though they were getting Notre Dame degrees, according to Thompson, St. Mary's women receiving Notre Dame degrees would follow Notre Dame degree requirements. This switch meant the women only needed 120 hours to graduate, instead of 128. 
St. Mary's official position on 
the situation is that since the 
women will receive Notre Dame 
degrees, it is the university's 
responsibility to provide in­
formation and decisions. "We thought," claimed Hickey, "that the women would follow St. Mary's degree' requirements, St. Mary's core requirements (specific classes for a degree) and Notre Dame department requirements. But, this is something we assumed. 
Apparently, according to Notre 
Dame, this is not to be the cas3." 
"Nobody has made an attempt 
to make anything clear,"com­plained Patty Perkevich, American Studies senior. " It seems to me that St. Mary's doesn't care too much about us and Notre Dame doesn't want to go .out. of its way to clear the thing up. I feel kind of left out of both places. I guess in the end all that matters is that we get a degree." 
~BOAC 
AFRICA-$316 EUROPE -$190 INDIA -:$450 

ALL ROUND TRIPS! Call Clarke 283-8810 tor details 
Observer 
News Staff Meeting 
Regular, short business meeting 
Thursday 7:00pm LaFortune 2·0 
CONGRATULATIONS and GOOD LUCK 
to the BLACK and GOLD 
from the BIG RED 

Christmas Buses 
December 19 & 20 Leave Circle at 1:30 only Return January 15 leaving O'Hare at 8:00 p.m. CST Sign-ups now at the Travel Bureau 
-Badin Hall All Sales Final 
The Paulists are helping to buikl the earth. 
downtown American priests on the campus on the move in the parish throughout in the office North America. 
building bridges 
For more information write: · •\i
working with 
Fa1her Donald c~ CampbeU.

the young and old Room 101. · >\ i spreading the 
Paulist.~·-··········
Christian spirit, 
415 West 59thS~!k N~w York. NX 10019 · · · 


~~r~~=ting\/ 



.. 
.-------------------­
• 
the observer Wednesday, November 15, 1972
8 


il!l!iif% 
,·:.; 

Marx named as Ruggers end with two wins 
The Notre Dame rugby team for thP initial score, and later in the 

Scholar-Athlete 
finished out their season this past half Jerry Razor thundered across 

Notre Dame defensive tackle weekend by defeating the giving Notre Dame the halftime Greg Marx, along with ten other University of Chicago Saturday lead. However, finding themselves senior college football players was afternoon and Palmer College on behind with only two minutes to named a 1972 Scholar-Athlete by Sunday. play. Bob KoPhler and Pete Franz the National Football Foundation Pngineered the scoring drive which HPrb Giorgio and Tom Masenga
and Hall of Fame. PnablPd the Irish to escape with a combined for two trys in the first 
narrow victory.

Marx, a 6-5, 265 lb. psychology half, leading the Irish to a com­major from Redford, Mich., was manding 12-4 victory, on Saturday. This season's edition of the Notre 
an Academic All-American last Chicago made an all-out attempt Dame rugby team consisted of
year. One of the Irish co-captains to coml:' back in the second half Giorgio. Razor, Koehler, Franz,
this season, he has made 85 tackles but could manage only four point~ Masenga, Doug Smego, Ed
and his six hits for losses leads the against the stingy Notre Dame O'Connell, Bobo Olson, Dan Lee
team. defense. 
L!'e Pallardy, Joe Hafner, Ed 

Others named as Scholar­Sunday afternoon was a different l<,ishburn. Dave Simpson, Don Athletes were Oklahoma halfback story. as thP Irish squeaked out a Greivie, Fred Manly, Mark Joe Wylie, fullback Floyd Harvey 16-15 win. Giorgio again accounted Fredette. and Jpff Warnimont. 
of Grambling, halfback Richard Jauron of Yale, defensive end Fred 
( 
/~
HadkP of Dartmouth, Penn State 
-

defensive end Bruce Bannon, linebacker Charles Whittner of 
Jimmy the Greek

Southern Methodist, defensive end ,­Bob Homburg of Air Force, -" 
ICl 1!172 New York Times

linebacker-tackle Tim Quinn of Dayton, defensive back Frank 
Colorado by 13 ovl'r Air Force -. Dowsing of Mississippi State, and Irish ('o-captain Greg Marx was named a Scholar-Athlete by the National College games T!·xas by 1.3 over T.('.ll.

safety Bill Cahill of Washington. Football Foundation and Hall of Fame. 
.\rkansas by 4 over S.M.U. \'all' by 10 over Princeton TPxas TPch by 2 over Baylor Pl'nn by 6 over Columbia Tt•xas A&M by 3 over Rice Ilarvar·d by 20 over Brown Tulant• by 7 over Vandl'rbilt Dartmouth by 3 over Cornell I Ions ton by 21 over New Mexico Penn St. by 2i over Roston College .\l'iwna by 11 over Wyoming




The Irish Eye 
,\rm.r by 7 over Holy Cross S. California by 12 over l'CLA 
(;t•orgia Tl'ch by 12 over Navy Washington by. 6 over Wash. St. 
W. Virginia by 10 over Syracuse <lr<•gon by :l over Ort>gon St.

================================================-=============================================================================================================================~===~=~=====~=========================: Bowl fevE~r 
Virginia by 10 over Wake Forest S: an ford by 8 over California 

Notre Dame can be translated from the French as
Non-sports fans beware--bowl fever is sweeping N. Carolina by 8 over Duke 
meaning a big television audience and large popular 
college campuses across the country and is becoming N.C. State by 17 over Clemson Pro games
appeal. The Irish have been to three bowl games in 
I
highly infectious here at Notre Dame. Tt•nm·ssN' by 12 over Mississippi
their football history and, each time, the game
The symptoms are easy enough to distinguish. Flor·ida by 12 over Kentucky Pittsburgh by 8 over Cleveland Those afflicted generally talk excitedly, loud and long .\labama by 24 over Virginia Tech 1\liami bv 8 over N.Y. JPts
they've been in has been the center of the nation's about the relative merits of the bowl and teams of attention. Anbnrn by 6 over Georgia Buffalo by :~ over New England their choice. They consume abnormal amounts of For this reason, the Sugar Bowl, which has been L.S.ll. by 21 over Miss. State ('indnnati by :lover Baltimore oranges and sugar and carry around travel folders Florida St. by 10 over S. Carolina Kansas City by 6 over San Diego
lacking in both national appeal and a large television 
audience in recent years, would love to land the Irish. 
describing the delights of Miami and New Orleans. 1\:otn• nam.: by 20 over Miami Oakland by 6 over Dt>nver Tuscaloosa, Ala., is in the midst of its yearly bowl But. neither is it likely that the Orange Bowl would Ohio St. by 20 over Northwestern lll'lroil by 17 over New Orleans 
dismiss Notre Dame from consideration just because 
fever epidemic and severe cases have lately been 1\lit'higan by 13 over Purdue Dallas bv 14 ovt•r Philade 
reported in Norman, Okla., Lincoln, Neb., Baton most of the other bowl contenders are ranked higher Michigan St. by 13 over Min,nesota Dallas by 14 over Philadt>lphia Rouge, La., University Park, Pa., Auburn, Ala., and in the wire service polls. Indiana by 3 over Iowa San Francisco by 4 over Chic.tgo not surprisingly, in South Bend, Ind. From this corner, it looks like the Irish can go Wisconsin. by 13 over Illinois N.Y. Giants by 4 over St. Louis With the extension of major bowl invitations due where they please on New Year's Day, unless they Nt'lmtska by 42 over Kansas St. Minn£'sota by '3 over Los Angeles shortly after six o'clock Saturday night, speculation lose or just get by· Miami in the home finale this Oklahoma by 27 over Kansas (;rpen Bav bv !l over llouston is rampant on this campus, and at Alabama, wePkend. Iowa State by 7 over Missouri Washingt~n ·by 8 over Atlanta
Guessing who would play Notre Dame, however, is 
Oklahoma. Nebraska, L.S.U., Penn State and 
Auburn. about what teams are going where to play 

like trying to pick a winner from a field of ten two­
year old fillies, none of which has ever been to the
whom. 


post before. You may as well toss the names into a 


Irish climb in polls
There's not much doubt that those schools are the hat and pick one.

top contenders for bowl berths. but one can start a Notre Dame finally returned to Three contests between

But there's no harm in doing a little speculating. 
heated discussion by asserting that one club or thP Top Ten in one of the nation's nationally-ranked squads are

Alabama, a prime contender for the national tiitle,
another is definitely going to a particular bowl game. 
major college football polls. slat£'d for this W£'ekend, and two ofThe Rose Bowl is a closed affair, limited to the should up its record to 10-o at the expense of Virginia Thanks to losses among higher­them are in the Pacific Eight

TPch Saturday and will have the selectors of both the 
Pacific Eight and Big Ten champions. The winner of ranked clubs and their own 21-7 Conference The big showdownSugar and Orange Bowls at its feet.

the Southern Cal-UCLA game this Saturday will win a triumph over the Air Force com<•s in the Los Angeles

It was considered an accepted fact by many people 
spot, as will the victor in the Ohio State-Michigan Aeademy. the Irish were able to Coliseum. where top-rated U.S.C.

that the winner of the Alabama-L.S.U. game last
matchup, Nov. 25, providing the Wolverines can get advance to the number ten position g£'ts its first major test of the year

wPekend would go to the Orange Bowl, since that
by Purdue Saturday. 
in thP Associated Press sports­in 14th-rankt>d U.C.L.A.

bowl has outclassed the Sugar Bowl in recent years,
Texas, by virtue of its fifth consecutive conference writers' poll, though they had to Another West Coast clash

but rumors from the South indicate that the Crimson 
title, will again appear in the Cotton Bowl, but the settle for only a one-position ad­matchPs intrastate rivals. 17th­

Tide may not be anxious to return to the site of last 
Longhorns' opponent on New Year's Day, as well as vance to eleventh in the United rat<'d Washington, fresh from a 30­

the contestants in the Orange and Sugar Bowls, have year's Nebraska debacle. Tide quarterback Terry Press International coaches' 21 victory over U.C.L.A., visits
Davis was quoted earlier this week as saying, "I'd
vet to be decided. 
balloting. 20th-seeded Washington State. 

· If the bowl people had their way, they'd wait until rather go to the Sugar or Cotton Bowl for a change of Elsewhere, a pair of Big Eightafter December 2, when they would know who won scenery." Southern California, though idle, scrappers, 12th-ranked Iowa State games like Notre Dame-USC, Oklahoma-Nebraska Since Texas hold slim hopes for the national still retained their spot atop both of and 19th-rated Missouri, square offand Auburn-Alabama. But teams may accept bowl championship, it's doubtful that "Bear" Bryant the ratings. Polling 73 out of a in Columbia.
bids after six p.m. on the Saturday of the next to last would take his club to Dallas. But the folks in New possible 85 first-place ballots, the The rankings:
game on their schedule and, for a bowl committee Orleans have their fingers crossed. Trojans out-distanced both of the Although Nebraska and Oklahoma have relatively nation's only two other major
that wants to put together an appealing package, 

hesitation may be costly. The committees must equal credentials right now (the 'Huskers are fifth in undefeated, untied squads, AP poll the polls, the Sooners, fourth), Nebraska is likely to
make their selections and hope that subsequent Alabama and Michigan. I. Southern Cal (-I:!) 9-0.0 !lSI
be rated the favorite when the clubs meet in Lin•~oln The Crimson Tide, fresh from a 2. Alabama (5) 9-6-0 890weeks and games will prove that they made the right 
Thanksgiving Day and rate higher on the bowl list. 3. ~ichigan (3) . 9-().0 812
:!5-21 win over Louisiana State that 

choice. ~-Oklahoma i-1-0 654
Louisiana State should wind up the year with a 1o-1
There are five open spots for the prestige bowls but, put them in the driver's seat in the S. Sebraska i·l·l 5:?i
record, which ought to be good enough to put them in 6_ Penn State S.I·O 450
at present, seven contenders. Although a loss this Southeastern Conference, claimed 
one of the "big bowls". 7. Texas i-1·0 43i
weekend would eliminate any of the teams men­the second position in both 8. Louisiana St i·I·O 39i
Thus, the bowl picture may very well shape up this 
rankings, and Michigan jumped to 9. Ohio State 7-1-0 365tioned. except Alabama, from consideration, it seems 

way: Alabama vs. Notre Dame, wherever the Tide 10 Sotre Dame 7·1·0 339
sole possession of the numberlikely that all the clubs involved will win Saturday. If 

would like to play-the guess here is the Orange Bowl, II. Auburn i-1-0 2i3 
that happens, two good football teams are going to be dl:'spite what Davis says; Nebraska vs. L.S.U. in the three opening, via a 31-0 whitewash I~. Iowa State ~2·1 loiS 
lC'ft out in the cold by the bowl selectors and will have 
of Iowa. 13. T~nnessee ~2.0 141

Sugar Bowl; Auburn vs. Texas in the Cotton Bowl and 
H. UCLA S-2·0 129

to settle for a spot in the Gator Bowl, Liberty Bowl, or Oklahoma vs. Penn State in the Gator Bowl. Oklahoma dropped stubborn 15 Colorado i-3-0 !18
Missouri. 17-6, and earned the dual 

some similar minor extravaganza. 16 S Carolina 7·1·0 47 At Notre Dame, there has been talk about playing fourth spot, while defending 17. Washington S-2·0 38 
For What It's Worth Dep't: There was a bit of 
concern voiced by Irish fans over Notre Dame's 
.. 
18 Anzona St 7-2·0 :!9I'Pnn State in the Orange Bowl, about meeting rankings of 10 and 11 in this week's wire service polls. national champion Nebraska tied 19 MISSOUri ~4-0 II The general feeling was that the Irish deserved
Alabama in the same place, the possibility of a Iowa State, 23-23, carries a record 20 Washington St 6-4-0 9 
of 7-1-1, and yet was only dropped Others receivmg mte.s. listed alpha·
rPmatch with L.S.U. in the Sugar Bowl, or playing better. 

bl-tically Air Force. Florida State.
to number five.

Alabama in New Orleans. And the Liberty Bowl The top three unbeaten teams certainly have a Mll'hlgan State. San Diego State. Texas 
would love to pair Tennessee and the Irish. T•och, West Virginia
right to their lofty status, but all the other teams Texas, Penn State and Louisiana l<'irst of all, it can definitely be said that the Irish ahead of the Irish have a loss blemishing their record 
State share the six-seven-eight
will accept a bowl bid this year, if one is offered to and it's questionable whether or not they're better positions. The U.P.I. balloting UPI poll
thPm---a major bowl bid, that is. Whether or not the 

than Notre Dame. One method of making sueh a 
favors the Southwestern Con­
team would go to the Gator, Liberty, or another bowl I. Southern California (31) (.9·0) 3-11
determination is by examining the records of the 
ference Longhorns before L.S.U. 
2. Alabama (3) (~) 309
of similar stature is questionable. But it appears that teams played so far by the highly ranked clubs. For . and Penn State. The A.P. board, 3. Michigan (9-0) ~6both the Orange and Sugar Bowl committees are 

what you want to make of it, here theyare however, put the Niftany Lions in 4. Oklahoma (7·1) 't.J"! 
interested in Notre Dame, so the question about 5. !Vebraska (I) (7+1) 169
I. Southern Cal (9-0) 37-47_1 the number six ranking, with 6_ Texas (6-1) 151lesser bowls probably won't be answered. 
2. Al_ab~ma (9-Q) 4_37_o Texas and the Bayou Tigers close 7. LSU (7·1) 99 
''If we can beat Miami( Fla.). this Saturday we will 3. M1ch1gan (9-Q) 0 48_2 behind. 8. Penn State (S.I) 98
32_ 
rate as a major bowl contender," Irish coach Ara •-Ohio State (7·1) 78
4. Oklahoma (7-1) J9-33-1 Ohio State fell from the ranks of 10_ Auburn (7·1) 53Parseghian said earlier this week, and he is most 
5. Nebraska (7-1-1) 42-38-1 the unbeaten in a 19-12 upset to II. Not!'l' Dame (7·1) 46 
-
certainly correct. 12. Iowa State (.s:2·1) 24
6. Texas (7-1) 40··26-1 Michigan State, but managed to 
13. Tennesset' ($-J.!) 19
If the Irish can knock off the Hurricanes and boost 

7. LSU (7-1) 40-29-1 remain in the Top Ten at the ninth 14. UCLA (S-2) 10their record to 8-1, their credentials will be as im­
8. Penn State (8-1) 41-39-3 post. Auburn then grabbed the 15. Colorado (7·3) 9 
pressive as any of the other bowl contenders, except 16.. Washipgton (8-2) 3
9. Ohio State (7-1} 27-43-2 number ten slot in the coaches' 
17. N. Carolina (7·1) 2
Alabama. And they have that all-important Notre 

10. Auburn (7-1) 38..29-1 
poll, while the scribes favored the 18. (til!) Arizona State (7-:Z.l I
Dame prestige as a selling point. To the bowl people, 11. Notre Dame (7-U 31-40-1 II. (tie) Utah State (6-3) I
Fighting Irish. 






