-----------~­
wind's a-blowin', snow's a-fallin', we gonna have a hoedown on saturday night at angela hall, ee­ha! 


notre dame -st. mary's
Vol. VI, No. 81 February 18, 1972 
Higgins, Seyn1our declare bloc 
by T.C. Treanor Observer Assistant Editor 
Notre Dame Hall Life Commissioner Bob Higgins 
and St. Mary's Student Affairs Commissioner Jean 
Seymour last night announced their joint can­
didacies for the offices of Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's Student bodies respectively. 
Higgins, a former Badin Hall Vice-President, will 
run with former Alumni Hall President Ron Pgge. 
Seymour's running mate will be Sue Welte, St. 
Mary's Judicial Board Coordinator. 
Under current election rules, ·the Higgins­
Seymour partnership is not legally binding. Each 
candidate will run on his own campus in separate 
elections. 
In a statement of joint candidacy Miss Seymour 
read to supporters and press at their Alumni Hall 
headquarters, the pair condended that "The unity 
we need to face next year's crucial issues must 
begin with the unity of our student bodies. Our joint 
candidacy is established on this basis." 
According to Higgins, both candidates are 
"committed to a merged student government," no matterwho wins. However, he cited last year's election, in which Kathy Barlow won at St. Mary's but her Notre Dame counterpart, Don Mooney, lost and said that, "it would be more difficult" to merge 
if a similar thing happened this year. 
"One of the most glaring weaknesses of this 
year's student governments was their inability to 
work together," Higgins and Seymour contended in 
their joint statement. "We can and we will. 
Structurally we will merge all positions in which 
duplicity is not necessary in order to deal with the 
two administrations." 
Although neither candidate would cite positions 
headed for merger, Higgins did forsee some other 
structural changes in student government_ Ac­
cording to the Hall Life Commissioner, his ad­
ministration would press for at-large positions on 
the Student Life Council for Notre Dame women and 
Freshmen. To do this he would have only one SLC 
member electd from the North and South quads. 
Currently the SLC elects two from each. 
The pair also sounded an optimistic note about the 
potential merger of the two schools. 
''Together we will push the administrations 
toward merger," Miss Seymour said, "An im­
portant part of this push will be student and faculty 
representation on all negotiating teams. Only when 
we pierce the inner sanctums of the decision-
Pogge, Welte, Higgins, Seymour: announced ioint candidacy last night 
making process can we gain the information necessary for effective utilization of studnet power.'' 
The pair promised to "work to extend our student power base" by forming a "faculty -student coalition." 
"By use of our representation of the faculty Senate and SLC," Higgins said, "we will seek to develop and extend the kind of cooperation that exists between students and faculty at St. Mary's." 
"Effective student power," Miss Seymour said, "which comes only when students unite to achieve a common objective, has never reached its potential here. We cannot promise to develop effective student power, for that can only come from an aroused student body. However, we can promise the vocal and productive leadership that will facilitate such a development." 
The pair pleged to "use our influence in the University Governmental structures to its limits." The also pledged to improve "communication" between students and student government. 
"If we succeed," the statement siad, "we will tell the students why. If we fail, the students will also know why. This sort of communication has been lacking in past student governments." 
"If the students think our goals are worthwhile and want to become involved, then we can develop effective student power. If not, we will continue to use our influence to its limits, and we will inform the students of every development." 


Higgins pledged to "double" last year's $10,000.00 Hall Life Committee fund. The Hall Life Com­missioner said that he was "confident that this(the doubling> could be done." 
Seymour suggested that a similar fund be set up at St. Mary's. "The fund can be instituted through the allocation of the surplus in the student govern­ment budget," Miss Seymour contended. 
Higgins turned down SBP Candidate's Chuck Luken's offer to debate the issues. "Thereare four candidates in the race already," he said, "and two or three will announce soon." According to the Hall Life Commissioner, such a debate would be "un­wieldly.'' 
Higgins, a 20-year-old Junior from the Chicago area, majors in government. He won election as Badin Hall Vice-President as a Freshman in 1970 and was re-elected without an opponent last year: He did not stand for re-election this year. 
Seymour won election as Student Affairs Com­missioner in February of last year. She is a Philosophy major and a Junior from Pittsburgh. 
Pogge, a junior from Council Bluffs, Iowa, is a General Program Major. He was elected Hall Presdient last year and surrendered the post only yesterday to Butch Ward. 
Miss Welte was Sophmore Class President and ran unsuccessfully with Jean Sheehy for Student Body Vice-President last year. She is a Sociologymajor from Pittsburgh. 

Calls for 'initiatory democracy' 
Nader-blasts bureaUcracy; praises PIRGs 
by Ed Ellis Observer Associate Editor 
Premier consumer protection advocate Ralph Nader last night called for development of "initiatory democracy," saying that the only solution of the problem of irresponsible corporate behavior was to provide the victims-the public--with legal power to fight their oppressors. 
In a two-hour speech before a crowd of 2000 in Stepan Center, Nader said that the growing perception level of people around the country had led to the recognition of a legal right for citizens to be protected from pollution and other manifestations of corporate irresponsibility. 
Nader praised the Public Interest Research Groups, such as In PRIG, petitioning at Notre Dame this week, saying that those groups were exploding certain myths and stereotypes about college students. He said the student movements of the late 1960's led to the improvement of the perception level of the general public, and that this was vital in the reassertion of the principles of democracy. 
Nader began his speech with an analysis of the economic system in America today. "Economic wealth does not solve problems," he said, "it ignores them and is creating new ones." 
He ~listed poverty, housing shortage, mass transit difficulties, medical care problems, and several others as problems that the traditional success criteria do not involve or aid. Pollution, he said, increases faster than economic growth. Noise and related psychological problems are never touched by the growth of the American Gross National Product. 
Nader said that the psychological problems of both blue and white-collar workers were greater than the statistical growth of the U.S. economy. 
"We ought to take all the economics textbooks and slowly disintegrate them," he said. "We need to take a combined quantitative and qualitiative analysis of this economy.'' 
He then examined the nature and con­sequences of bureaucracy, contending that bureaucracy led to a "fluid paralysis of mind," in which people were insulated from accepting personal responsibility for anything. Nader said that red tape often impedes teh information flow between te people, the government and corporate decision-makers. 
Too many bureaucrats, Nader argued, justify their actions on the grounds that 
(Continued ot1 page 5) 



THE OBSERVER February 18, 1972
Page 2 
-wader _hits ~uto industry -again at press conference 

b~· Maria Gallagher 
At a press conference following his Stepan Center address. Ralph Nader outlined points he felt were of primary concern to the consumer, and discussed accomplishments of his crusade. 
Nader began by listing areas that he believed needed im­mediate research and action. These were the food and auto industies pollution, housing, and governmental pr.ocesses which are immune to public suggestion. 
Nader then explained the advantages of PIRGs, or student operated-campus based research teams. 
''Working in PIRGs will not only enrich their education, but also teach them the priceless techniques of citizen action which will later prove invaluable to the bringing about of a more responsive government." He 
encourage other group­s<especially retired citizens) to initate action. 
Workers may earn academic credit for research in their respective areas, he added. Nader added that so afar PIRGs have taken root in 10 states and he hopes eventually to extend them to all 50. 
''The auto industry has definitely become more responsive. More cars are being recalled, and the recommended safety features have become standard on practically all models." 
However, Nader emphasized that the auto industry must still go far in order to insure adequate passenger protection. He hailed the development of the collap­sable steering column and air bag as "tremendous steps for­ward, although the industries may not agree," and cited an automatic collision avoidance device as the ultimate safety goal of the industry. Such devices, 
Law School to sponsor lecture by Ear1 Warren 
Earl Warren, former chief justice of the United States Supreme Court, will speak here April 4, 5, and 6 as the first speaker in a new major lecture series sponsored by the Notre Dame Law School. 
The series will be an annual event, featuring speakers from government and other fields. Efforts will be made to obtain well-known persons rather than professors from other univer­sities. 
The role of the courts and other government agencies in civil rights, and projections for the future will be the topic discussed this year, according to Law Professor Francis Beytagh, who chairs the series. 
Since leaving the court, the SO­year-old Warren has made few public appearances but agreed to open the series· here because of his personal admiration for the accomplishments of the U.S. Civil Rights Commission and its chairman university President Rev. Theodore Hesburgh. Besides the night-time addresses, Warre_!l__will be available during 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ex. cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased for $8 per semester from The Observer, Box 
Q,  Notre  Dame,  Indiana  46556,  
second class postage paid.  Notre  
Dame, Ind. 46556.  

Nader: auto industry more 
responsive 
Nader said, are already used in 
space. and he expects their in­
stallation in passenger cars by 
the early 1980's. 
"When this reaches the general 
public, it'll be the greatest life­
saving feature instituted in this 
century." 
Nader concluded questionmg 
on the auto industry by conceding 
that the new warranty attached 
American Motors cars is "a step 
in the right direction, as long as it 
fulfills its promises." 
The mobile home industry was 
next hit by Nader. "It's a 
booming business, but the 
number of complaints of shoddy 
construction are increasing as 
well." He said that a research 
team was presently working on 
the problems, and that a report 
would be forthcoming in the near 
future. 
On the subject of nursing 
homes, Nader credited the 
results of his fact-finding teams 
for the institution and passage of 
the Nixon administration's 
recent reforms in that area. 
In conclusion, Nader said he 
felt that the average consumer 
was not passive, but really 
concerned about the quality of his . world. 
"The average consumer will wake up and respond when he feels he is being jeopardized," !';ader said. "The industries must be made aware of just whom they are serving. Industries can be t£'rmed responsive only so far as they are open to study and eriticism." 
111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Delegate sign-ups for the Mock Convention will be held Monday through Friday of next week in the Dining Halls and the Huddle. Tables for the purpose of signing up will be open from 5:00 until 
6:30. All delegates must pay a fee of $1.00. Organizers of the event urge students to sign-up early to get their choice of state delegations. 
Notre Dame -St. Mary's Theatre presents 

Judas Christ 

A NEW PLAY BY MICHAEL REHAK Feb. 18, 19, 25, 25, 26 8:30 pm Washington Hall Tickets $2, $1.50 for ND-SMC Staff, Faculty, Students Reservations at 283-4141 and 284-7054 
Electric Music Friday night-Edge City 
(under Moreau) 

Nazgul and Friends 8:30-1:00 $1.00 a head 
the day to any students who would like to meet on an informal basis. 
Beytagh who worked as a law clerk for Warren 10 years ago, said this would "give the students the opportunity to get to know the man while he's out here-a real intC'resting, personable guy." 
Warren received an honorary doctor of laws degree at Notre Dame in 1957. He served 16 years as chief justice. and was a can­didate for vice president on the Republican ticket headed by Thomas E. Dewey in 1948. He also served four years as California attorney general, 10 years as governor of the state, and currently serves as chair­man of the United Nations Association. 
All sessions will be open to the public in the Center for Con­tinuing Education. 


OUTSTANDING VALUES 



$4.98 LP'S 



$1.00 
~ ENVIRONMENT/EVOLUTION ~(30LOGY 
ORIGINAL 

THEMES­
£HANKIE LAINE: 
tttllllll~· ia••••~~~ 
THE JIMERICJIN 
-·--------·· . 
BREED 


FOURTOPSI
. . --_-:-:·-. ---.___,. 


Notre Dame Bookstore 
·Snow Sculpture ·Ice Skating ·Tray Tobogganning 
·Snow Footba II

~= ;IJ:i:waJ 
Tomorrow -outside Holy Cross Hall 
e free refreshments and ban(iAURCRA 
Page 3 
Dante Leonelli, head of the experimental facility at the Hornsey College of Art in London has created a "marriage" of art and technology in his light sculptures--large domes with undulating colors playing within. These schulptures have been· exhibited at the Institute of Contempor•ry Arts in London, 

-------1 
Nixon heads for China; plans week-long visit 
by Tad Szulc China's leaders in a ceremony to be 
<c> 1972 New York Times televised live to the United States via Washington, Feb. 17 -President Nixon satellite by the three American networks. left for China today. Although the President will alight 
He is to arrive in Peking . Monday briefly from the aircraft in Shanghai, no morning, China time (Sunday night ceremonies are planned there. Washington time) for a week's stay on th~ Nixon will be the first American mainland, that is to include two con­President to visit China. He was the first 
February 18, 1972 
ferences with Chairman Mao Tse-Tung to pay a state visit to a Communist nation and additional meetings with Premier when he went to Rumania in 1969, and he 
the Museum of Modern Art in 
Chou En-Lai. will be the first to pay an official visit to
Oxford. 
The President said in a brief statement the Soviet Union when he flies to Moscow
He will be guest artist in the 
this morning that the United States and in May.
University of Notre Dame Art 
China must "find a way to see that we can President Franklin D. Roosevelt at­
Department Monday through 
have differences without being enemies in tended the Yalta Conference in the Crimea 
Friday (Feb. 21-25). He will 
war." in 1945 but' did not go to Moscow.
speak on the development of his 
He spoke to Vice President Agnew, the As Nixon emphasized once more this
light sculptures at 7:30 p.m. 
leaders of Congress, members of his morning, he had undertaken the journey,
Monday (Feb. 21) in the Ar­
cabinet and a large crowd assembled on which is the culmination of three years of chitecture Building. 
the White House lawn to bid him farewell. secret diplomacy, to seek peace and un­

"If we can make progress toward that derstanding, without harboring ex­goal on this trip," he declared, "the world pectations of great immediate will be a much safer world and the chance achievements. particularly for all of those young children "We, of course, are under no illusions over there to grow up in a world of peace that 20 years of hostility between the will be infinitely greater." People's Republic of China and the United 
As he uttered those words he pointed to a States of America are going to be swept cluster of children facing him from behind away by one week of talks that we will the ropes holding back the many have there," he said. thousands at the departure ceremony. The Nixon spoke to Vice-President Agnew White House said 8,000 were on hand -­and 18 Congressional leaders and friends newsmen thought the figure was smaller -­from both parties at a 45-minute briefing in including 1,500 school children. Most of the the cabinet room at 9:20a.m. He told them youngsters had been bused from public that no agenda had been prepared for his schools in the capitaland the Virginia and conference with Chairman Mao and Maryland suburbs. Premier Chou. I 
Nixon, speaking without notes, con­Henry A. Kissinger, the President's 
'l

cluded his remarks by citing as the assistant for national security, informed su~gested "postscript" for his journey -­the group, according to the Senate which follows more than 20 years of hostile Republican leader, Hugh Scott of Penn­j relations --the words inscribed on the sylvania, that Nixon's principal objective plaque left on the moon by the first would be to "open up a wide band of American astronauts in 1969: "We came communications" between Peking and the l in peace for all mankind.'' Western world. 1 
With that the President, holding Mrs. Scott reported that Kissinger said that it I 
j

Nixon by the arm, walked briskly to a was necessary to open communications waiting Marine Corps helicopter. It was with the Chinese but that he did ot 
10:15 a.m. and a cold wind swept the White "necessarily expect the immediate 
l 

House lawn. resumption of diplomatic relations." 
Seventeen minutes later, they landed at Administration officials had indicated Andrews Air Force Base, in Maryland, that the President was aware that Peking and at 10:36 a.m. the blue-and-white would not agree to full relations as long as Presidential jetliner, the Spirit of '76, took the United States maintained formal ties off for Hawaii on the first leg of Nixon's with the nationalist government on 20,000-mile journey. Taiwan. 
In Kaneohe, Hawaii, where the Nixons Inasmuch as the administration plans to will stay at the residence of Brig. Gen. keep those ties indefinitely, the ex­
Victor Armstrong, Commander of the pectation here is that, as a compromise, First Marine Brigade, the President will nondiplomatic representatives, such as have 46 hours of rest and privacy before trade missions, might be exchanged. 
leaving on Saturday for Guam an over-In addition to President and Mrs. Nixon night stop. ' the Spirit of '76 carried an official party of ~f~er a refueling stop in Shanghai, the 13 senior advisers and aides. Also aboard off1c1al schedule provides for the Nixons to the Presidential jetliner, a Boeing 707, and 
arrive in Peking on Monday. The back-up aircraft were some 100 govern­President is to be formally greeted by ment employees. 
, 


world 
briefs 
<c> I9i2 New York Times 
on campus today

London--Britain's House of Commons approved in principle the legislation to bring Britain into the European Common Market, but the friday E'xtremely narrow margin, eight votes, raised questions about the 2:00 --8:00 --film, last grasp film series, negatives, carroll ulti~ate prospect of the legislation as it continues in the long hall. 
5:30 --t.g.i.f., Iafortune ballroom.
Parliamentary process. The government won the vote only with the 
8:00 --concert, barbara geary, french music, library
aid of five votes from members of the small Liberal Party. 
auditorium. 
8:00 & 10:00 --film, cac fund-raising series, catch 22,
Washington--The State Department announced that the Soviet Union 
engineering auditorium.
had agreed to reopen talks on settling its multi-million dollar debt to 
8:30--drama, nd-smc theatre, judas christ, washington hall.
the United States growing out of the lend-lease program during World 
10:00 --'meeting, mooney's merry pranksters, frankie's -­
War II. The United States was said to have responded with "great grins.interest," and the talks are expected to begin in a few months. 
saturday 2:00--5:00--festival, winter festival, outside holy cross hall, New York--Howard R. Hughes moved into a hotel in Managua, smc. Nicaragua, in what his spokesmen implied was merely a business 2:00 & 8:00--film, cac cinema '72, black orpheus, engineering auditorium.
visit. The Hughes party, which left Nassau, the Bahamas, after 
8:00 --gathering, international students, informal coffee
becoming a local political issue, took an entire floor of the In­
evening, international room, Iafortune.
tercontinental Hotel in Managua. Nicaragua and the Hughes Tool 
8:00 --lecture, tanya davis and matthew eubanks, library
Company were said to have been engaged in "business discussions." 
auC:itorium. 8:30--drama, nd-smc theatre, judas christ, washington hall. 
Ottawa--Canadian officials announced that Karleton Lewis Arm­9:00-12:00--dance, square dance, angela hall. strong, one of four Americans being sought in connection with a sunday bombing at the University of Wisconsin in 1970 in which a graduate 2: oo & 8:00--film, cac cinema '72, black orpheus, engineering student died, had been arrested Tuesday at a Toronto residence. He is auditorium. 
7:30 --mass and lecture, father david burrell, yoga and it's
charged with being an illegal immigrant and could be ordered 
application to christian life, donors' room, morris inn.
deported to the United States. 
8:00 --lecture, econ. dept., crisis in the cities, library auditorium.
New Yol'k--Twenty-five New York policemen, including the top 
8:00 --drama, national players, the trial, o'laughlin
officials in the Police Department, were the guests of honor at a dinner 
auditorium.
given by the Chinese mission to the United Nations at the Roosevelt Hotel. The Chinese were thanking the police for their work assuring 
at nd-smc

the delegation's security. 
THE OBSERVER Pta I t .. 1m 





THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
Editor-in-Chief, Glen s~  Corso  
Assistant EclHor  Assistant Editor  
T.C. Treanor  All  successful  newspapers  are  John Abowd  
ceaselessly  querulous  and  
Business Manager Jim·Jendryk  bellicose. They never defend anyone or anything it they can help it; if the iob is forced upon them,  Advertising Manager Bill Bauerle  
they tackle it by denouncing someone or something else.  
H.L. Mencken  
Business: 283-7471  News: 283-1715  



Senior Fellows 
"Blow the whistle," the man said. Bureaucratic American institutions have become criminally insensitive to their collective public respon­sibility, criminally insensitive to the long range risks of the products they develop, criminally insensitive to the fraud they perpetuate by habit, and criminally insensitive to the individual ethics of the people they employ. Ralph Nader was here last night. In his loose, flippant style he reminded us that a thoroughly organized, knowledgeable and dedicated man can penetrate the insensitivity. But, he added firmly, "Bureaucracy will not be responsible until it becomes individually responsible." 
Even if prosecuting the presidents of three-fourths of Fortune's top 500 companies would go a long way towards forcing the issue of corporate responsibility, the major burden of re-establishing the publicinterest still clearly lies with us. It is the individual fully excercising his expanded legal rights(e.g. citizen anti-pollution suits) that will bring the system back into balance. 
Nader offered many concrete examples. The greatest challenge he suggested was making the University deal substantively with con­temporary social problems. 
No college curriculum offers auto safety engineering as a con­centration, nor are food additives, behavioral modifica ton effects of advertising and a whole host of other areas where the enthusiasm of college students and the expertise of social and natural science faculties could be used. These are areas of concern for students. 
These suggestions deserve further consideration. Nader is not ad­vocating the classical approach that might be found in advertising or engineering majors. He is suggesting a problem-oriented approach to real problems that would allow students as undergraduates to combine disciplines to investigate the GM or Lockheed, or FDA of their choice. 
We believe that his ideas must be discussed more thoroughly. The Senior Fellow Program offers a perfect opportunity--seniors should nominate and select Ralph Nader. They could then ask him to discuss specific curriculum additions and revisions which would best implement his ideas. 
da mob that couldn't see straight 
Nite Editors: Joe Abell, Jim McDermott layout and Headlines: Sunshine Esposito, Dan Ryan, John Abowd Machine People: John Brady, Don Biancamano Writers, of a sort, in Residence: Ed Ellis(who ain't no good at all), 
Glen Corso, Maria Gallagher(even spelled right), TC Treanor, T J Clinton, AT Darin, mabaum, lefty 
1. 
beer and pizza return-rejoice and be glad! 

2. 
see, glen, we did get away with it. 

3. 
when do x-mas trees travel? 

4. 
do they brinQ friends? 

5. 
no refunds. groit. 

6. 
thornton-oh boy are you in for it. i feel sorry for you. 

7. 
slip score: m -10, j-5 

8. 
goodbye, g., and the dallas of seniors 70 


"' ~ t ~ne..~ '' 

••••••••••• 0 • • . .....• ••
....... .. . . . . . ..


The -New Season Begins 
At the conclusion of 
T -.-•


spnng tratntng: 


The acknowledged favorite, chief generalissimo, and head honcho of hall life is officially in the race, and we can now see precisely how the campaigns are jelling. At least three other people will mount cam­paigns for ND SBP, and their are at least two others as yet -unan­nounced pretenders to the SMC throne. But for purposes of analysis, the picture over here looks complete -the three candidates yet to announce may fool around with percentages; will probably throw things into a runoff; but of themsleves will not present serious sustained drives. 
Let's take a look at the four candidates-alphabetically, of course: 
Paul Dziedzic has a foot in both the Mooney and Barkett camps-and he may not get support from either. Barkett will support him in event of a runoff with Kezele, but as long as both he and Higgins are in the race, Barkett will keep scrupulously mum. 
Dziedzic has done two things which have shored up his organization and indicated that his candidacy is indeed serious. Late last night he picked up an endorsement from Keenan Hall President Dave Loring, who was split between him and Higgins. Loring has supported two successive losers -Tom Thrasher adn Don Mooney -but he posesses a eertain amount of dynamic persuasiveness which has won him some considerable success for himself and a sustantive amount of respect in his own hall. 
The second thing he's been able to do is to maneuver St. Ed's president Marty Seimion out of an active role in the race. Siemion will wear a Higgins button and in all ways make himself known to be a fervent supporter of the Hall Life Commissioner, but Higgins headquarters had counted on him to be a North Quad captain. Siemon's relatively minor role is the result of Dziedzic's doings. 
In turn. Dziedzic lacks a tight organization. He has more in­formation leaks than Henry Kissinger -and not just to me; to the Higgins and Kezele organizations as well. If the runoff is between Higgins and Dziedzic, he stands to pick up some ex-candidate's en­dorsements, including, as it stands now, Floyd Kezele's. 
Floyd Kf'zele is the man the Higgins people fear most now. His announcement was impressive; his contacts with the Mooney people look good. He pic~ed up an important endorsement from Bob Welley, Flanner Hall's popular president, who was torn between him and Higgins. Both he and Dziedzic live in Grace; his running mate, Milt Jones lives in Flanner and Dziedzic's running mate, Mike Sherrod lives in Grace, but Kezele has far more of a home-halladvantage. He'~ been an SLC Towers representative for two years; first time around he beat Sherrod by approximately two to one; last year he won by 289 ­
29. Dziedzic has never won an elective office at Notre Dame and has only lived in Grace for a year. 
Kezele's announcement was impressive and his organization is small but tight. He has had troubles getting hall or quad captains. 
If it's a Kezele -Higgins runoff, Kezele stands a good chance of ge~ti~g ~ll the ex-candidate's endorsements, and additionally, brmgmg m a lot of Mooney's old campaigners to say i-told-you-so at the last minute. A Kexele-Higgins runoff would likewise bring Barkett full fury into the frey -on the side of Higgins. The antipathy between Kezele and Barkett defies serious description. 
Rob Higgins is clearly the favorite, with good reason. His organization is five quantum leaps ahead of everybody else's · he has hall captains for three-quarters of the halls. He doesn't have B~rkett's direct endorsement but has picked up a large share of his organization anyway; lanky Fred Giuffrida will manage his campaign. A lot of people talked favorably of Giuffrida as an SBP candidate himself and in fact Giuffrida considered taking up the bid. 
Other important endorsements: HPC Chairman Ed Motto, Fisher Hall President Carmen Maciarello, Farley Hall President Joe Markosak. If Higgins is to be beaten, it will be because (a) he won't come across in public and (b) all his opposition-all his opposition ever 
can unite against him in the runoff. 
Chuck Luken has no campaign manager, little organization, and not an eye-bugging amount of support. The only thing he has going for him is himself-and his running mate. His announcement was the most impressive of the four; there are some things he doesn't know about student government but if he straightens himself out he may pick up 8­10 per cent of the vote. However, unless he becomes a lot more visable than he has been in the past, you can scratch him as a serious con­
t(•nder. Ry Monday night we ought to have another contender at St. Mary's and twomore here. They all present their· own little bizzare twists to the story; but more on that later. 
-=-~~--~--------------~------~ --------,--------...-----,----~-------­
February 18, 1972 
THE· OBSERVER. 
5 





Bureaucracy, i~dustry targets in Nader speech 
(Continued from page 1) 
they were taking 
orders or simply ignore the 
responsibility, prefering to pass 
the' buck. 
He contended that 
"bureaucracy will never be 
responsible until bureaucrats are 
held personally responsible." 
This, Nader claimed happens 
only when the victims of the 
bureaucrats are represented in th 
decision-making process. 
Related to this, Nader 
discussed the subject of "on-the­
job-citizenship," saying that this 
is the best form of citizen 
representation in the government 
because it involved experienced 
people who could exert heavy
internal pressure on the of­
fending bureaucracies. 
Everyone who works for a large company or bureaucracy will at some time be faced with the decision of "when individual conscience will take precedence to allegiance to the organization," according to Nader. 
"We have a traditon of 2000 years that says that organization never can take precedence ... And if people can't or won't make that decision, then we're in trouble." 
Nader then charged many vital sectors of American society as being undemocratic. He cited the need for a micro-analysis of many of these areas, including corporations and large labor unions. Once the essential totalitarian control of many as~ects of American life is realized, Nader said that "initiatory democracy," the most undeveloped and the most basic form of democracy, must be used to correct the situation. 
"Forsee and forstall" are the codewords for tomorrow, ac­cording to the Harvard Law School grad. He said that Americans must begin to examine. very closely what are called "risk levels." 
"We are the first country in the world that can literally destroy itself by mistake." 
"We no longer have to worry about problems of today," said discussing the advertising Nader. "We must be concerned practices of major food com­with levels of risk." panies. He described the current 
Nader said that "we must state of competition between develop an emotional tie with corporations in the U.S. as "you science and what it can predict." scratch my fraud, I'll scratch He advocated an emotional yours." aversion to destruction, which In a short question-and-answer will be predicted by science but period after his lengthly talk, which cannot be sensed Nader responded negatively to a naturally. question about his stance on 
Nader also advocated a more socialism. He said that input and practical approach to the concept access to the economic system is of a liberal education, saying that necessary to solve the problems man can only survive by using existing today. This would not be the technology already developed possible under socialism, he said. for the good of mankind. He also noted that the market 
He mentioned automobiles and features of capitalism are food here, and spent some time beneifcial to the consumer.
S f 
eventeen so ar 
Many V.P. applicants 
by Noli Kane 
To date, seventeen people have 
applied for the Vice President of 
Student Affairs job, according to 
Fr. James McGrath, head of the 
V.P. search committee. 
But at least thirty or forty people must be screened before the committee recommends any names to Univers1ty President Fr. Theodore M. Hesburgh or Provost Fr. James T. Burtchaell, he said. He refused to release any of the applicants' names. 
The committee met for the first time, Monday, to discuss ap­plicants for the post which Fr. Thomas E. Blantz will vacate this May. The committee wil recommend three to six people to the Trustees for the job "by the end of March.. .if all goes well," McGrath said. 
When asked what type of person the committee was searching for, McGrath said, " ...a strong person who can take the job as it exists now and restructure it." 
The V.P. deals with too many staff and should be "free for more face to face meetings with students." 

LINDSAY 
Meeting for all potential Lindsay delegates to 
MOCK CONVENTION 
Sun. Nite 8 pm Fiesta Lounge, LaFortune 




Senior Bar 
Friday: Gay 90's Night Introducing John Voll on banjo Prizes for best Gay 90's costume 
Reminder 10c Beer Sat. 7-9:00 
He should also be experienced. "We are not hiring from the unemployed ranks," he said. The new V .P. should be " ... already a 
dean  of  students  or  vice  
president...who  has  made  his  
mistakes."  

CALIFORNIA THIS EASTER 
Sponsored By California Club of Notre Dame 


MARCH 22 TO APRIL 4, 1972 

South Bend to Los Angeles 

and return or South Bend to San-Francisco & return Total Cost: $130 R-T 
Sign ups and more information this Saturday afternoon (Feb. 19th) from 
1: 00 to 3: 00 pm in Room 1-D of the LaFortune Student Center 

RoGERS 
Optical 
ROGER ATWELL -OWN!tt 
HOURSt MON • TUE'S • THUR -PRI f AM. 5:-30 PM W'fD -SAT 9 AM 12 NOON COMPIRrE SPBCI'ACLE S9VIC! 
ALL F:YE ct."S PR!SCRIPTIONS HONOREe 
e«tt 

289-7809 
• 

StrohS...Fromonebeerlover \ another. 
. . . ' ' -' . ' -­
. .

..... '" --··-­


the observer febrNry 18, 1972
6 
'a couple of dressy dresses will take c~ of the inform( 
\ I

The New St. Mar~ 
~ 

Shades of the Gooj 
by Ann Therese Darin 
Within the first week you will meet our neighbors, tht Notre Dame men from across the Dixie. Social life at Saint Mary's includes on-campus activities as well as N.D. pep rallies and football games, Victory Dances, and proms 
... Your social whirl will begin with a lively Freshman week and its round of get-acquainted activities... You will attend many activities at Notre Dame -concerts and plays, open house parties in the Student Center, Mardi Gras, class dances. and formals held by the different schools, such as the Science and Law Balls ... 
When there is no dance, you may see amovie or go to dinner in town. The Volcano is a favorite spot, followed by Rosie's and the Philadelphia. On a spring or fall afternoon, it is fun to walk to Roseland for a snack, or just for fresh air. There are lots of things to do on our campus to. When the weather is nice. you can go canoeing on Lake Marian. On Friday nights there are first run movies at St. Angela's. You will be able to entertain your guests in Holy Cross parlors or outside on the large and beautiful campus. 
Lake Geneva in the autumn? A swinging singles weekend in the Adirondacks? The Notre Dame in the first ex-· erpt from the Freshman Orientation Manual for the 1957 -1958 St. Mary's Freshman Class gives it away. So, this was the western campus (or has in chameleoned back to being St. Mary's College for Women?) in the 1950's. 
Saint Mary's gives us may other opportunities to develop the whole woman. Noted speakers and artists are presented in convocations throughout the year, in addition to the special programs held in O'Laughlin. Students with scholastic averages of 2.2 OR ABOVE are distinguished at the semi­annual Honors Convocation. 
Your chapel veil will be an important part of your war­drobe. It will be with you at your first Missa Recitata and Full Participation Mass, and at that last visit to the Christ Child be/ore Christmas vacation; at the Holy Hour; on First Friday; at Sunday Benediction; and most often, we hope at frequent visits to Christ in the Blessed Sacrament. These Things will contribute more than anything else, to your development into the St. Mary's ideal-the whole woman. Let your chapel veil be a symbol ofthe finest course Saint Mary's offers -"Growing Up To God." 
Nostalgia is in vogue. But, when nostalgia of St. Mary's 
past seems to be converging with the administration forecast 
for St. Mary's future ... 
Last week the St. Mary's Admissions Office, subsisting 
underground this year in their cubbyhole in the Golden 
Dome, issued what promises to be the most widely read 
campus scandal-sheet since the Park-Mayhew Nihilty. The 
booklet is entitled "Facts for Freshmen Entering September, 
1972" or perhaps a more apt title: "Everything You've Had 
Nightmares About Since Un-Merger, But Been Afraid to 
Believe." 
Produced by the Admission Department, overlorded by Sr. 
M. Raphaelita, a 50-odd year veteran in the Holy Cross or­der's battalion and for the last ten years patroling Stalag Admissions Office, the statement was censored by Sr. M. Alma. acting president. and her attache, Jason D. Lindower, director of financial management. The statement projects a 
St. Mary's College as exciting as the grotto on a rainy day, as timely as the shuttle busses this semester (especially the 
10:48 Tuesday-Thursday express from St. Mary's which has yet to make an appearance); and as informative as Sr. Alma greeting our esteemed editorial writer the -"Goodbye, Sr. Alma~" editorial. 
LC'Mans is the residence of the sophomores, juniors, and seniors and many of your clases will be held there. The dining hall and snack bar (the Oriole) are also in LeMans. 
The Chapel of Loretto, which we hope you will want to visit daily. is a replica of the house ofthe Holy Family at Nazareth and the most beloved of the seven chapels on campus. Saint Angela's is the site ofthe annual sports tournaments. 
A picture for the wall, and statues of Christ, Our Lady, or favorite saints can be rented from the art studio. Something "green and growing" adds a cheerful note. Of course these are some things which are positively essential: a clock, desk lamp and dresser scarf. Shoe bags and a drying rack will come in very handy too. 
But, then again, perhaps the "good nuns" (a term which I have yet to find the origin for) really ~id mean well and wanting to get into the spirit of President Nixon's trip to China this week, decided to take "the giant leap" (back­ward!). 
In academics, next year's freshmen class, according to the circular will be retrogressing. They will not be allowed to major in American Studies, Business Administration, Physics, Engineering, Political Science, Psychology, Ar­chitecture, German , Italian, modern languages, Black Studies, or European Studies. 
Presently there are approximately 30 SMC government majors. Without a government major, how can anyone figure out the bureaucratic map, the lobbying of the habits versus the Hobbits, the fine art of ramming through legislation restructuring the college through the amnesia­prone tri-partite committees and executive Board ofTrustees sessions who don't even remember discussing the proposals? 
Not to mention a more trivial reason: that an increasing number of SMC seniors are applying to law schools, which both want and need women. A government major is a fine launch for their plans. Or what about the Nader Raiders? How can they aid the consumer, if the college can't even teach them in political science courses the caches of American democracy to raid. 
True, there are only two faculty members in the political science department at present with filled-to-capacity or near-to-capacity classes. Will they experience the same Christian community which has axed professors, ad­ministrators, and even exiled one ex.SMC-president to South America after the present government majors have graduated'? 
Yet. the philosophy department, which is operating with no department chairman since Dr. Richard Hutchison quit last May, one or two instructors, and only four majors, is counted among the chosen. Do the Sisters have a sudden harvest of hemlocks'? Have they developed an ultra-new philosophy to form the department on "Reflection on Self" <Or how one treasurer of a religious order found peace of mind by resigning from the i7 different Boards of Trustees she sits on!) 
·something green 
and growing adds 
a cheerful note' 
Since Closet Space 

wardrobe simple bu 
Uniforms are the a 

cottons during the s 
during the winter. 1 
ironing are time sav4 
c.>xcept Saturday. 
In the evening you 

skirt with blouse or s 
Our Lord. you are eJ 
tailored dress and h, 
Casual outfits are i1 

more dressy for date 
care of the informal c 
offormals. Since the) 
this exclududes straJ 
the-shoulder styles. 
Psychology, an imp who are in it, has also ever understand the Si psuedo-collective bar1 administrators. The n freshman pamphlet w. neighboring campus" nation "University of which will compete wij Catholic women in tht 
Hopefully the writE passage, "I( you wisll classes at the neigh! minimum of twelve se which you will be bill~ "neighboring campus Cross Nursing School, the Holy Cross Noviti 
While there will ben 

government or psyche 
as at Notre Dame, the 
and three faculty me 
Religious Studies! 
Reviewing the list o 




february 18, 1972 the observer 
::::tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIll= 
= = 
-peeking thru the ~ = merger blackout:


are ­
-
-
-
Tt11TION TROUBLE 
St. Mary's has stolen the spotlight from Notre Dame for once during the merger volleys. In 
"Facts for Freshmen" the Admissions Dept. leaked, "Information coming from Notre Dame University at the present time indicates their charge will be $100 a semester hour this coming year." Notre Dame spokesmen refused comment. 

1/ dances' -­
-
I --(;()\'T. t\1';0 PSYCH TRAUMAS 
--"IN DECEMBER THE Trustees warned us not to 
-
promise anything to the incoming freshmen that we







vs -­
could not be certain of fulfilling. The trauma and resulting alienation of the present class led to this directive. At this point no one knows if there is going to be unification or even coexchange. No one knows the extent of cooperation nor the fee which might be attached to courses taken on the N.D. .campus which might well be fiscally impossible to

d 0/' Days! 
meet either by the college or the student." 

"THE DIRECTOR OF Admissions had to prepare a Fact Sheet as cancellations were coming in because of lack of information. Again the Trustees said to make it clear that students arriving in September, 1972, were to be Saint Mary's College students and that no promises should be made that ­might not be able to be fulfilled. I proofread the fact -­
What Will I Wear wonder that lay administrators had to plead to the Sisters sheet and approved it." ­just two years ago that not every senior collects her diploma­-"I HAVE CAREFULLY researched the academic ­
•is limited we suggest that you keep your 
ct well-planned. diamond on graduation day, to be fortressed with some field of Psychology at Saint Mary's College. A ­rnswer to what to wear to classes-pastel assuming, but bulging-cheekboned Domer. There might be -majol' department has never existed ... Political :pring and /all and charcoal gray suits some need for a vocational counselor and job placement Science held a departmental major status until1966 "lylon or orlon blouses that don't need director to help the women, both single and married, to find --when for sound reasons the department decided to 
jobs. form a cooperative major with Notre Dame." 
ers. Full length hose are worn every day -­
St. Mary's College has been reduced from a 1971-1972 ---"I SHALL ASK the Task Force to consider ­L dress for dinner in a neat and casual colorful, coeducational catalogue, with a future as bright as -Political Science first since that was a viable -­
-

:weater. Because Sunday is dedicated to the Dome, to a six-page Catholic Girl's High School Madonna -department. .. The Psychology program never had -­
-blue -the status of a major department so the study will ­
x:pected to dress accordingly -a suit or -colored flier. -­
eels to look your best. "There are always late applicants who wait hopefully all -have to be more intense if a major is to be opened... -­
-

n order for trips to town, with something summer for a room assignment. In ther interest we urge that -The above does not hold for our present students to -­prompt cancellations be made as soon as a change of plan is --whom we have special commitments." 
~s. A couple of dressy dresses will take 
finalized," the new pamphlet sputters. "Since Saint Mary's -Sr. M. Alma, acting president 
dances. Good taste dictates your choice ­
classes are usually limited in size, the faculty members --Feb. 8, 1972 -letter to faculty
'?are chose in order to pleas e Our Lady. -­
know the students and are aware of the need for additional --­
pless, halter necks, and extremely off-­
help on the one hand and for the opportunities for enriched 
TAKE THE MONEY AND RUN 

programs for gifted students on the other hand," it adds -The Godfather Game and Jeopardy are running a defensively. 
--close second as the most popular campus game,
-

Itominously climaxes with the fact, "Since there are some
>Ortant major for the forty or so girls "Who has the $150,000 billed to St. Mary's for co­
girls who have been accepted by Notre Dame and who will be 
•been canned. How will future SMCers exchange classes this semester?" 
in residence there, it is important to remember that these
isters who sat down last Wednesday for Saint Mary's administrators insist that they have ­
directives do not apply to them should they read this folder!" ­
gaining on a merger with Notre Dame neither received the bill nor paid it. Notre Dame ­
1ext day these same nuns released the The wizards of the college's $694,000 surplus last year -Press Information reported in mid-January that the should realize in terms of dollars and cents -no parents will 
•ith dignified lady-like allusions to "the -university and college completed the transaction. ­
pay first-rate prices for a second-rate education. ­
' instead of the crude, realistic desig­9,000 credits hours were taken by SMC students at 
Notre Dame." The same Notre Dame With some help from the men and padres from "ACROSS -Notre Dame first semester opposed to 6500 hours -­THE DIXIE," maybe the South (the 1971 coed-coex ante-
th SMC for the 300 finest and smartest taken by Notre Dame students at SMC. The second ­
bellum SMC> can rise again! · -­
1e country. -semester projected figure showed 10,500 of Notre ­er is refering to Notre Dame in the -Dame credit by SMC students, and 4500 SMC hours --­
-

1 to reside at St. Mary's and take some Slacks are worn only for sports, so one pair will be elected by Notre Dame students. -­
-
!boring campus, you must enroll for a enough. Bermudas may be worn in the house on Saturdays or -----­
-
for tennis. Bobby sox are worn to gym. picnics, football
~mester hours at St. Mary's College for m''''''''''"''''''''''m'''"'''m,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,..,,,,,,,,,,,u,,u.,,,.....,,•••,••,,n,,,,,,,,,,,,n,,m,
d $1020.00a semester." But, what ifthe games and Saturday if you wish.For lounging. most wear a ;" is Holy Cross Junior College, Holy warm bathrobe, knee or full length, coupled with soft-soled ,St. Joe's High School, or the Sisters of bedroom slippers for quiet's sake. All types of shoes are iate? worn with the uniforms except sneakers or moccasins. 10 opportunity for freshmen to major in Loafers or flats are fine, dark colors to wear with the winter ology or a modern language program uniforms. Hats are worn when leaving for or returning from ey, along with the four present majors, weekends or vacations. !mbers will be able to concentrate in Th'e size of your wardrobe is not the important thing. It is 
the girl who is well groomed and appropriately dressed who 
•f the new St. Mary's program, it is no leads the fashion parade at Saint Jlary'a. 

-------------------------------------------------~ 
------~---­
February 18, 1972 

s THE OBSERVER 

Mao's poetry published 
<c> 1972 New York Times New York, Feb. 17-Members of the Chinese mission to the United Nations received a new English translation of Chairman 
Mao Tse-Tung's poetry today, even as President Nixon's plane was leaving for their homeland, 
and they expressed the hope that the interchange of President and poetry might herald a new era for the two nations. 
The work was presented to two senior members of the mission by a poetry editor at Harper & Row, while other officials were following the President's departure on a television set in an adjoining room. 
Although several English editions of Chairman Mao's peotry have been printed, the Harper & Row book is believed to be the first bilingual edition. 
Mao's peoms, which reflect the Chinese fondness for vivid descriptions of nature, span four decades, from 1925 to 1963. The last poem is a tribute to Kuo Mo­Jo, one of China's most distinguished writers, which They buzz, moan, moon, 


begins: And ants climb the locust On our small planet, tree A few houseflies bang on the And brag about their vast 
walls. dominion. 
Pranksters: 'Keep Him' 
An unidentified source from among the ranks of the Merry Pranksters announced today that the organization was sending a telegram to Chinese Foreign Minister Chou En Lai. The telegram's message was succinct, concise, and only two words: 
"KEEP HIM" it read. It was believed that the telegram referred to this week's visit to Peking by President Nixon. 
The source from the Pranksters suggested that students also send telegrams in order to create a flood of opinion on behalf of the President's con­tinued residence in China. Telegrams can be charged to a student's campus phone billing number. The phone number for Western Union is 233-6101. Telegrams can be sent to Chou in care of the United Nations, Embassy of the People's Republic of China, New York, New York. 




Sophomore Lit Festival to feature novelists, poets 
by Beth Hall 
The Sophomore Literary Festival Council will feature five novelists and three poets in­cluding contemporary protest writers. · Poets participating in the festival are Dianne Wakoski Allen Ginsberg, and Robert Duncan. The novelists include Jerzy Kosinski, Robert Coover, John A. Williams, Jay Neugeboren and William H. Gass. 
Charles Newman will be keynote speaker for the week. Newman, a critic and novelist, is editor of Northwestern University's Tri-Quarterly magazine. His two novels are The New Axis and Promise· Keeper. 
Dianne Wakoski is the first woman to participate in the Literary Festival. She gained r~ognition for three collections of poetry: Inside the nlood Factory. Discrepancies and Apparitions, and Motorcycle Betrayal Poems. which she has "dedicated to all the men who betrayed me in hopes that they fall off their motorcycles and break their necks." 
The counter-culture poet, Allen Ginsberg, is author of many published works, including "Howl", "America", "In Back of the Real", and "Reality Sand­wiches". Ginsberg adapted his poem "Kaddish" into a play which will be presented this week in New York by the Brooklyn Academy of Music. 
Robert Duncan, a member of the San Francisco group of poets, is author of The Opening Field, Roots and Branches. and Ben­ding the Bow. Duncan comments that "I make poetry as other men make love or make war or makes states or revolutions: to exercise my faculties at large." 
Leading the group of novelists 
will be Jerzy Kosinski, winner of 

the National Book Award for Stt>ps. He has also written Being Tht're. The Future is Ours, Comrade and No Third Path. 
Robert Coover has written 
novels as well as short stories. 
Coover experiments with forms 
and the myths of men in The 
l1niversal Baseball Association, 
Origin of Brunitis, and his short 
story collection, Pricksongs and 
Dt'scants. 
John A. Williams, author of The Man Who Cried I am, has published studies of Martin Luther King, Jr. and Richard Wright. Williams is editor of the paperback magazine, "Amistad", a review of black American literature. 

The young Jewish novelist, Jay Neugeboren, is author of Big Man. Listen Ruben Fontenez, and Corky's Brother. a collection of short stories. Neugeboren's works are often sports oriented. 
Completing the list of novelists is William H. Gass, former philosophy professor at Washington University in St. Louis. Gass' novels include Om('nsetter's Luck, Willie Masters' Lonesome Wife. He has also written a set of short stories, In the Heart of the Heart of the Country and other stories. 
Starts 'tomorrow 
A joseph Janni production of John Schlesinger's Film 
Glenda Peter Jackson Rnch MurrayHead 
~~ Umtod Arhsts 
Feature -9:0 
The festival council has chosen different forms of fiction and poetry. "The idea is to give the students the opportunity to see a wide variety of fiction writers and poets and to make it en­joyable for all,'t commented Ray Funke, chairman of the Sophomore Literary Festival. Funke also stressed that the festival is planned to have a friendly and informal at­mosphere. 
The festival will feature evening and afternoon talks and possibly classroom lectures by the guests. Students will have the chance to meet and talk with the participants after the lectures and in informal talks. 
~StARTS FRIDAY 
FRIDAY AT 8 ONLY SAT-SUN AT 1:50, 5:10, 8:25 WEEKDAYS AT 7:45 

Free Folk 

John Hurley Kevin Dockrell Ed Maurer Zahm Chapel Sat. nite 9:30-1 :0 


FREE 

MARX BROTHERS 
In Horse Feathers Badin Vintage Cinema Friday & Saturday 7:00,8:30,10:00,11:30 


· Starring: . . • > , • 
U1[3®'1~Ul. w~~JJa[J~,J(!)aJ dlGl~ 

.·· ·. .· ....·· .·· . ··. i .............................. ·.··· . ······· ...·.... 
i } ( 

.... ~al[llD[!)~~ allUGlfll4J(3(!}, . 


,~~um~w~luoosarm, 
•num~ 

. . . 
~1i~Glf1~Yl11ln~Ui~fii.lla~~· 
:~::::::::::'·-: . . . . . . .':.: ::: -~-:. ;', : --_-_ -: ' -·.. ·. :. =.':·;;:/ -~:_ ', -' .--: 
. . . 
d)Q)[IllnllJ}l·...[)~W)(iJ)Ql[l}[!)··············. .~(!Yll{!fi ~(!)fl}·,i (i)(!)ll}~(3:T 
· 
> .:·_, -. 
~cr~.·~~~·..·..· 


··.··· ·m~lilOOtii~tpm~~ 
·...·l1UlGlfl}[lJ~.(~[3~~!l~(3\} Wl~ 


Winter Jazz -Chicago 
SATURDAyI FEB. 26 THE OPERA HOUSE, 8 PM PRICES: $6.50, $5.50, $4.50 
TICKETS NOW ON SALE: A11 Seats Reserved At all ticketron Outlets and Opera House Box Of­
fice, Wacker & Madison 



Pege9' 



Schools of Engineering and Law make proiect proposals 
Proposals which could reduce 
the time between arrest and trial 
from the over 200-day average in 
two major Indiana counties to 
less than 90 days are results of an 
IS-month study conducted by the 
. University of Notre Dame's 
Law School and College of 
Engineering. 
The study was funded through 
a $191,917 grant to Notre Dame 
from the National Institute of 
Law Enforcement and Criminal 
Justice, the research and 
development wing of the Law 
Enforcement Assistance Ad­
ministration of the U.S. 
Department of Justice. The 
report focused on the criminal 
court systems of St. Joseph and 
Marion counties in Indiana. South 
Bend is the principal city in St. 
Joseph and Indianapolis in 
Marion. Leslie G. Froschio, 
assistant dean of the Law School 
and Dr. James Daschbach, 
associate professor of aerospace 
and mechanical engineering 
were co-directors of the project 
which included seven 
engineering and three law faculty 
members. Noted legal scholars 
Harry Kalven and Hans Zeisel 
of the Universi~y of Chicago 
served as consultants for the -project. 
of the University of Chicago 
served as consultants for the 
project. 
The study's recommendations 
should be applicable to other 
court systems both within and 
outside of Indiana, Foschio and 
Daschbach explained. They 
added that the report represents 
the project's conclusions solely, 
and not the opinions of the LEA. 
Examples of the four-volume 
report's specific recom­
mendations include: 
That no continuances be 
allowed before the defendant is 
charged. If a grand jury in­
dictment can be eliminated, the 
accused should be charged and 
arraigned within a maximum of 
three days. At present, sub­
stantial prearraignment delay 
exists in Marion County because 
of heavy use of the slower grand 
jury procedure. 
-That all cases where the 
defendant pleads guilty to a 
reduced charge be decided within 
four to six weeks after 
arraignment. Presently, Foschio 
explained, these mainly routine 
cases take as much time as the 
more complex trial situation, 
clogging up the court system and 
making accurate scheduling 
difficult. 
-That all routine cases come to trial within two months of arraignment. Foschio pointed out that this recommendation may prove controversial, ex­pecially to defense attorneys who claim that delay aids their clients or is important to their rights. He contends, however, that most routme cases can easily be handled in this period, expecially if the attorney is granted ex­panded access to witnesses' statements and to evidence. In addition, he said, the study showed no correlation between post-arraignment delay and acquittal of the defendant. 
-That no more than two con­tinuances be granted before trial, and those only when the attorney can prove witnesses are not available , his client is ill and unable to appear, or the case is unusually complex. The Notre Dame study discovered that cases with three or more con­tinuances took twice as long as cases with fewer than three. Other pre-trial motions-in­eluding motions to quash the charge, admissibility of evidence and other motions important to 

the constitutional rights of the 
client, were found not to con­
tribute significantly to delay. 
-That the appellate courts set 
an example by speedy handling 
of appeals cases. The study 
shows that appeals to the Indiana 
Supreme Court accounted for 76 
percent of the total time from 
arrest to decision on appeal. 
Time for appeal itself was 22 
months, over four times the five 
month maximum recommended 
by the President's Crime Com­
mission Report. Foschio believes 
changes recommended by the 
study would reduce the appeal 
time to seven months. 
-That an administrative judge 
be appointed to oversee each 
local trial court system with 
more than one judge, with an eye 
to efficient scheduling of cases 
and pre-trial motions. He could 
also hear the easily-decided 
cases where the defendant pleads 
guilty to a reduced charge. 
-That each member of the 
Indiana Supreme Court be 
responsible for the quality and 
efficiency of the administtration 
of criminal justice in designated 
regions of the state. 
These recommendations stem 
from case data collected by 10 
Indianapolis law students in the 
largely urban Indianapolis area 
and 6 Notre Dame law students in 
the less-populous St. Joseph 
County area. From the data on 
over 2,500 felony cases, Notre 
D:tme engineering faculty 
devised a computer model of the 
courts which uaschbach expects 
to be applicable to many other 
court systems, as well as 
hospitals and other service 
agencies. 
"Our model is unusually simple and accurate and can be run on a fairly small computer," Dasch­bach explained. One of the main advantages of the model is its ability to provide concrete an­swers to hypothetical questions­for instance, what would the delay be if all cases plead guilty? The model calculated that even if all defendants pleaded guilty, there still would b~ delay defined as any unnecessary time beyone the maximum stnadards of the 1967 President's Crime Com­mission Report. 
The model also showed con­clusively that the criminal justice system in these counties suffered from a lack of overall control. Daschbach explained that the various parts of the system ap­pear to operate independently, and efficiency in one area does not carry over to efficiency in the 
whole. Such a situation, he ex­
plained, indicates a system 
unresponsive to any centralized 
coordination. 

Foschio and Daschbach added 
that an essential assumption to 
their recommendations is that 
both counties have the per­sonnel and facilities to reduce delay with somewhat more ef­ficient management. The data of the project tends to support th1s assumption. Although this condition may not be true in larger jurisdictions, the ob­servations of the project suggest that even if a somewhat greater number of criminal trials should arise, the present system, if properly managed, could deal with them. 
The report concluded that Indiana could become a model state for efficient handling of criminal cases if judges and prosecutors will work more directly toward this goal by implementing the necessary reform. 
Angela Davis' sister to speak saturday-
Fonya Davis, sister of Angela Davis, black activist and former philosophy instructor scheduled for trial in California on charges of murder, kidnapping and criminal conspiracy, will speak at 8 p.m. Saturday in the University of Notre Dame's Memorial Library Auditorium. 
Speaking on the same program will be Matt Eubanks, coor­dinator of the St. Louis regional committee to Free Angela Davis. 
The program is sponsored by the student union of the Black Studies Program at Notre Dame and is to tbe PUI:.UC. 
-S..wTills­
1:45 3:45 5:45 
7:45MtiM5 
..
... 
FREE 
WHEELI 
B~INisS ~., 
~-. 
'·~_XECU~tyfl" .. CAUG~ ?· 
~TWEEN 
~HbsBAND 
AND. ~" 
WI FE -\-" 
1r ' ~ t"r. .. . •
.• ....., 


Page 10 THE OBSERVER 


$700,000 deficit for '71-72 

by Mike Baum 
( 

The University may be in for rough economic times, according to Provost Fr. James T. Burt­chaell, but the administrator said that Notre Dame would survive 
I and probably be stronger than 
) 
I ever. 
( 
The University is expecting a 700 thousand dollar defcit this
t 
fiscal year, in contrast to a 70 thousand dollar surplus last year. "The University has been con­fronted with a set of financial burdens which may not only absorb all the increased income we could reasonably summon up, but could engulf and overwhelm our economic ability to survive," Fr. Burtchaell said in a report to the faculty dated February 8. 
The Provost went on to express his belief in Notre Dame's basic fiscal soundness. 
"We shall suvive. Indeed, we shall thrive; we shall use this season to strengthen our relative position among universities." 
Fr. Burchaell admitted that faculty are underpaid "at Notre Dame as elsewhere". Graphing statistics to show that while salaries here are higher than an overall average, but "somewhat less than our peer schools" with an "average lag" of about one year, he stated that "the ad­ministration is persistently committed to ever constant improvements in faculty com­pensation." 
Fr. Burtchaell cited the need to achieve a better than adequate program of faculty com­pensation, together with reasonable student fees, while coping with "the close of one of the University's great building eras." He outlined in broad long range plans for endowments, and a proposed short range program of adjustments in faculty work loads. 
The article, which appeared in the current Notre Dame Report, quoted as major economic fac­tors: the costs of the newly in­stalled IBM 370-155, rises in fuel costs, building and maintanence costs (aggravated by the Galvin Life Sciences Building), in­creased insurance rates, and several federal cuts in higher education underwriting. In­creased costs for unemployment compensation, costs involved in the transition to co-education, and science development were also noted as major cost in­creases. 
Considering long range plans, Fr. Burtchaell observed that gifts, a major source of funds, "continue to be constant and abundant." While these funds have generally gone into new buildings, he explained, this will be changed. "We are nearing the close of one of University's great building eras, and intend hen­ceforth to dedicate the large part of our fund-raising potential to endowment." 
Listing endowments which will "receive prime attention", Fr. Burtchaell mentioned: the Faculty Development Fund, to meet annually increasing faculty compensation; Endowed Chairs, "to attract and support the quality of scholar required by an, ambitious and influential graduate program"; Library Endowment; Scholarship funds; and a Computer fund. 


Under Scholarship funds, the Provost noted, "To this end, the University will shortly be an­nouncing the establishment of a special endowment of three millions of dollars to provide scholarships for minority students." 
In the major part of the faculty­oriented report, Burtchaell discussed general aspects of a short range economizing plan, which he hopes will be adopted after faculty consultation. Citing unequal divisions of teaching loads among departments and even within departments (68 faculty members teach only 3 credit hours per semester" as opposed to 152 teaching's hours), he suggested, "we must develop and ennuciate a policy on faculty teaching loads." However, "it must be no crude 'productive 
index'.'' 

In this program of ''economic self-discipline", Burtchaell advocated a "statutory academic load". This would hopefully be strong enough to even out the distribution of class hours, while at the same time being flexible enough to handle cases of department heads, and faculty engaged in scholarly projects, who need the extra time. 
In addition, he recommended a student credit hour load to balance often disproportionately large or small classes. Also taken into consideration was faculty size. 
The conclusion of the report discussed faculty fringe benefits. These include Disability In­surance, Unemployment Com­pensation, Maternity Leave, Health Insurance, and Faculty Child Educational Benefits. 
February 18, 1972 
ATTENTION PRE-LAW STUDENTS LSAT REVIEW COURSE NOW ACCEPTING STUDENTS FOR APRIL (AND OTHER) LSAT TESTS 
FOR INFORMATION: EDUCATIONAL IDEAS BOX 337 BLOOMINGTON IND 47401 CAMPUS REP KELLY FlYNN -·232-8236 


Hasyour roommate ever discovered his 3irlfriends earrings underyourpillowand believed your story aoouttheTooth Fairy? 
'· 


No. But have you ever tried Colt 45 Malt Liquor? 


-----Page 11 
leers at Denver for 8-pt. series 

by Jim Donaldson As evidenced by the Colorado 40 points on 19 goals and 21 Sports Editor series, the Pioneers have plenty assists. McNab 04-22-36) · and of scoring punch. Denver's three Venasky (16-19-35) are fifth and
Notre Dame's slumping hockey veteran lines have collected a sixth, respectively.
team faces another difficult 
league-leading total of 112 goals Center Ed Hays (9-14-23) andweekend on the road, meeting the 
high-scoring Denver Pioneers this season. his linemate, Brian Morenz (4-21­in an Soph center Vic Venasky, 25). are also tough men to stop.
eight-point series tonight an 
All-American and the WCHA's The Pioneers are strongand Saturday night at the Denver 
U. Arena. leading scorer last year as a defensively, as well. With two­freshman, with 56 points on 20 year starter Ron Grahame in
The Irish, who dropped a pair goals and 36 assists, skates on the goal and a defensive crew headedof games last weekend at Pioneer's top line between sophs by All-American Mike Christie,Wisconsin by 6-4 and 5-1 scores to Tom Peluso and Pete McNab. Denver ranks third in theextend their losing streak to six All three are among the WCHA in goals-against averagegames, bring a 7-13 WCHA record league's top ten scorers this with a 3.8 mark.
into the Mile High City. The 
season. Peluso ranks second__with While the Pioneers will bePioneers, locked in a three-way 
trying to stay within range of
tie for second place in the loop 

Hockey stats 
WCHA pacesetter, Wisconsin, the
with Minnesota-Duluth and North 
Irish want to pick up at least four 
Dakota, have won 14 of 22 league Irish Statistics 
of the eight points at stake this
starts. Player Gms G A Pts I't>n-Min Regan, w.. . . . . . . . . . . 26 24 19 43 2.'>-50 weekend to enhance their playoff Although Denver is near the top Noble, c.......... . .. 24 11 31 42 11-22 chances. of the standings, things haven't Williams. w . . . . . 2:1 18 19 37 1!).30 Bumbacco, w ........ 26 18 17 3.1 1·:? The Irish, with 22 total points,
gone as well for the Pioneers as 
Campbell, w . . 26 10 19 29 13-26 

are tied with Colorado College
coach Murray Armstrong had Green, d . ......... 26 5 14 19 17·34 hoped prior to the DeLorl'nzi, w.. .25 6 11 17 !).10 and Michigan for seventh in the
season. 

Keating. w . ....... 15 8 9 17 2-4 WCHA. The top eight clubsDenver lost just one of its top 14 
Nyrop, d . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 2 14 16 26-40 

qualify for the post-season
players from last year's club, Conroy, c . . . . 18 6 7 13 1-2 Shafer, w . . . . . . ....... 26 6 7 13 9-18 playoffs and a possible berth in
which finished third in the NCAA 
Curry. d ...... : ....... 26 I 10 11 31-62 the NCAA championships.tournament. But the Pioneers Steinborn.• d . . 25 0 10 10 &-12 
Notre Dame enters the series
have been inconsistent this Cordes, w ............ 26 · 4 4 8 7-14 Israelson, w . . . . . . . . . 26 3 1 4 !).10 with a couple of physical
season. 
Lindsey, c . . . . . . . . . 10 I 3 4 1}.0 

problems. Junior Paul Regan,
"We still have a relatively young Bonk, c. . . . . . . . . . . . .. 23 0 1 I 1-2 Tardani, w ............ 11 1 0 1 1-2 who leads the club in scoring with 
team," coach Armstrong com­
Tomasoni, g . . . . . ... 19 0 I I 1}.0 43 points on 24 goals and 19 assistsmented earlier this week. "We hrson. d .............. 26 (I 0 0 7-14 
Bench..... .... .. . . . . 1·2 <15-13-28 in league play), did notdon't have a mature club and 
make the trip to Denver because
they have been erratic on oc­
Notre Dame ....... 26 124 197 321 181-362 of a bad ankle. In addition, goalie casion." Opponents .......• 26 125 173 298 166-3.'il 
Dick Tomasoni, who has missed
Power P~ay Goals -Notre Dame 35

Denver was plagued by in­Tht" Irish i~ers will need a strong performan~e from Bm Nyrop and his 
of 108 (32 per cent); Opponents 28 of 128 the last four games after suf­
consistency just last weekend, (22 per cent) a concussion dt>ft>nsive mates if they are to upset high-scoring Denver this weekend.
fering against
blowing a three-goal lead and Shorthanded Goals -Notre Dame 5, 
Oppoents 5 Wisconsin three years ago, may week, will start in the nets. 
Smith commented. "We just letdropping a 9-7 home ice decision 
Gltrs. Gms GA Avg. Svs. SO not be ready for action yet, Aware that they still can make them choose up sides and play.
to seventh place Colorado Tomasoni ......... 18.17 78• 4.29 563 0 
although he did accompany the the playoffs, the Irish have
Kronholm . . . . . . . . . 4.67 21• 4.49 148 1 The enthusiasm was tremendous
Friday, the Tigers first win in 
Cathcart ..........-3.33 20• 4.54 110 ·o team to Denver. If Tomasoni is refused to let their losing streak and they were doing some real
Denver in 14 years. The Pioneers 
unable to return, sophmore Mark get them down. 
hitting on the ice."

gained revenge Saturday night, Notre Dame...... 26.17 119• 4.54 821 1 
Kronholm who performed "We didn't hold formal 
'drubbing CC, 13-4. Opponents.. . ..... 26.17 121• 4.62 808 0 "It would be nice if we could
•noes not include open net goals capably. against Wisconsin last practi~es Monday and Tuesday," 
win one of the games at Denver," Smith continued. "That would help our playoff chances quite a


Irish -Tar Heels clash in Garden 
bit. Therearemo two ways about, by Joe Passiatore 
the season's going to go right
memorable Fordham game when down to the nub ends before the

Digger Phelps is to be excused Digger and his Fordham Rams playoff situation is decided."
if he didn't rush out Thursday and thwarted Austin Carr and, in wire off congratulations to Lefty doing so, stopped Notre Dame. And the Irish figure to be in the Driesell of Maryland for his thick of the fight all the way.
Chances of Phelps master­team's upset of third ranked minding another upset at theNorth Carolina. The upset did not 

ND teams go 
Garden are slimmer this year,exactly come as welcome news to despite the fact that the Irish arePhelps and the Irish varsity. 

currently riding a two game 


on the road
About the last thing they were winning streak, their longest of
hoping for was to encounter a Notre Dame's swimming,
the season.

North Carolina club incensed fencing, track and wrestling over a recent defeat. The duo of Gary Novak and teams will be on the road this 
The Tar Heels probably Tom O'Mara have done the bulk weekend. wouldn't have been in a of the scoring in Notre Dame's Coach Dennis Stark's swim­lackadaisical frame of mind for recent victories and if the Irish mers, boasting a 7-2 record after 
this Saturday's 3:30 game, are to challenge North Carolina, a big 61-52 win over St. • anyway. Madison Square they again will have to be in a Bonaventure last Saturday, Garden. the locale for the con­productive mood. Novak is now travel to Purdue for a meet with test, appears to bring out the best averaging a fraction over twenty the Boilermakers. in coach Dean Smith's team, as points per game, while O'Mara is The Purdue nata tors are only 5­the four clubs that lost to the Tar close to fifteen a contest. Willie 7 this year but hold a 68-55 win Heels in last year's NIT can well Townsend contributes an ove; Northwestern, a club which attest to. average of 9.5 p_oints and 7 beat the Irish 78-35 earlier in the 
This year's North Carolina rebounds a game. The addition of season. basketball team features four Don Silinski to the line-up gives The indoor track team, which Notre Dame's offense a new took part in the Michigan State
starters from the 26-6 team of a 
dimension, as Silinski has come Relays last week, will again faceyear ago. Before the season 
started. however. coach Smith into his own in the last few stiff competition this weekend in was saying, "It would be difficult games. John Egart will assume the Central Collegiate Cham­
to even approach our record of the quarter-back duties and an pionships being held at Western output of anything close to the 14 Michigan U. in Kalamazoo.
last year, especially in view of 
won many points he scored against LaSalle
the fact that we so Freshman shot put ace Greg 
a couple weeks ago would be a

close games in 1971." Apparently Cortina recorded the lone first Smith forgot to mention this to his welcome addition to the Irish place for the Irish at MSU,
attack.

team who, in spite of the recent putting the shot 59'7". Coach loss to Maryland, still carry an Saturday's game will mark the Alex Wilson ·was also pleased impressive 17-3 record. first time these two teams have with Dan Dunne's time of 9:05.4 
The four returnees from last met since 1964 and the Tar Heels in the two-mile event, good for year are forwards Dennis have had all the better of it in seventh place and the consistent Wuycik, 6-6, -and Bill Cham­previous match-ups. They hold efforts of hurdler Tom berlain, 6-6, along with the back­an overall record of 7-1 against McMannon and sprinter Eric court duo of Steve Previs and Notre Dame. Penick. George Karl. The center position 
This year has not been a par­Notre Dame's wrestlers, who 
has been filled by 6-10 junior were drubbed 37-2 by Purdue
ticularly rewarding one for Irishcollege transfer, Robert McAdoo. 

basketball fans despite a solid Wednesday, journey to Penn­('hris ..llawk.. Stevens ~hipped In 10 points last Monday when Notre
Tar Hell fans consider Wuycik effort from the team throughout sylvania this weekend, meeting
and Chamberlain as good a pair llamt' dubbt>d Howling Gret'n 92-65 at the ACC. The Irish will put their 
the season. If North Carolina St. Francis on Friday and par­
twu-ga mt' winning streak on the line this afternoon against the third­
of forwards as can be found on would somehow make the ticipating in the King's College 
any team in the country. Wuycik t·ankt•d ~orth Carolina Tar Heels in Madison Square Garden. 
mistake of being in a downcast Quadrangular on Saturday.

combines a good outside shooting exceptionally quick and was the best defensive player on the mood. rather than an aroused The Irish fencers, now 9-1 after 
touch with aggressive board named the NIT's Most Valuable team, while George Karl quar­one. after their recent defeat, the defeating the U. of Chicago and play, while Chamberlain, Player after a 34-point per-terbacks the club. losing to the U. of Detroit last
Irish could spring an upset that 

although a forward, can be formance against Georgia Tech Notre Dame and coach Phelps, would go a long ways towards weekend, will face Michigan likened to recent all-American in the championship game. · meanwhile, will be returning to easing the pain of fourteen State and Ohio State Saturday in Charlie Scott. Chamberlain is Guard Steve Previs is said to be the scene of last year's earlier defeats. East Lansing. 

Page 12 THE OBSERVER February 18, 1972 
Living at ND 



Problems of homosexuals 
by John Comiskey 

The homosexual in our time has become more than a distant concern, he is a social and political reality. Homosexuals are banding together as a political force, to overcome social and employment discrimination. However, the problems confronting the homosexual on a college campus would center almost exclusively on the former. 
OBSERVER INSIGHT 

Fr. Ralph F. Dunn, C.S.C., Director of ~sychological Services, s~ted that homosexua~ty .,. 1s, and has been, a recogruzed ~act ~f human hfe, and thatthe presence of people With different se~ual 
A study by Bieber has shown that other therapists, such as Hatterer, have ~chieved mixed results by motivating their patients to work diligently on altering concious cheices. This method, however, assumes that the homosexual orientation is based on these concious choices. Until recently, the most successful method of therapy has been psychoanalysis. This is a long drawn out process, and the results were often unsatisfactory. 
Recently, behavior th~rapis.ts have developed .ar' technique for treatment mvolvmg the use of electnc shock to train the patient to avoid the undesired 
sexual preference. Feldman and MuCullough have reported encouraging success with. this technique, and it is being experimented with aroung the country, especially on the west coast. However, 
pre~erences a~ N.otre Dame sho~d !lot be shockmg . .,. because of its punative nature, the process is highly 


National statistics place the mc1dence of male 
homosexuality between five an~ ten per~ent/andthe absence of any form of selective exclus1on would suggest that the same percentage ~ould ~pply at Notre Dame. Not all of those possessmg this sexu~l preference act on it( choosing to suppress this tendency.
The problem of homosexuality, if itcan be viewed as a problem, is manifold. Some view homosexuality as an alternative life style, and to insist on its eradication w~d be to fly in~ fa~ of nature. However, the gnm fact of ~1al _,disap­proval produces constant stress and anxiety. Some go so far a~ ~o attempt excape ~ro~ this pressure through su1c1de. If homosexuality IS an alternate life style, it is not presently a viable one. 
Traditional psychological dynamics ..httributes homosexual orientation to faulty emotional development or lack of emotional stimuli that would foster heterosexual development. This in-, 
terpreta tion views hom~xuality
rather than an alternate bfe style. 
Fonya Davis dance closed to the public 
The reception dance for Fonya Davis scheduled for Saturday night in Grace Hall will be opened to UJAMA members and their female guests only! ·There is no charge required for those at­tending. The organizers of the affair ask that all non-members refrain from making an ap­pearance. 
as a disorder, 
controversia. 

Many therapists involved in the treatment of this and other problems assist the patient in coping with the conflicts intendent upon the homosexua.l. The patient must decide between suppressiOn or gratification of his desires, and in either case he will encounter many difficulties and constant stress. 
The therapist attempts to assist the patient in resolving doubts, making the best decision for himself, and delaying the inevitable anxiety and depression. Often, through continued help, the patient developes greater self confidence and courage and is less dependent on others. Once self­esteem i~ truly enhanced, the homose~ual f~ls free to make choices previously thought 1mposs1ble. 
Fr. Dunn stated, "The saddest thing about gay life is that it is not really gay; it is bitter and despairing. Only bravado and exuberance make it bearable." At Notre Dame's Psychological Ser­vices Center the therapists try to assist in over­coming fear, ~nxiety, and dependenc;e. 
MAIN CHURCH 
SUNDAY MASSES 
5:15pm Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 
H: :~o am Sun. Fr. Eugene Gorski, C.S.C. 
10: 15 am Sun. Fr. Aidan Kavanagh, O.S.B. 1:!: 15 tHn Sun. Fr. Bill Toohey, C.S.C. 

I I I I I I' 
r 
The 

SALE 

is on. The sale is on. 
SWEATERS 
Reg. $11 to $35 styles in many colors and sizes. Here's a chance to make a big buy! 
SAVE NOW
1,4 

i I( 
I, I 
~) 
I' 
I I·. 
I'
I, 
!f 
I 
i• 
BODY SHIRTS.... 1f2 OFF 
A special group of these favorites are marked down. Why wait? 

ALL-WEATHER COATS 
I 
A selection of lined and unlined styles are marked down to make sensa tiona I values. 
You'll 



SAVE 
big. 

DRESS SHIRTS 
The names are in the shirts and you'll know them immediately. Big names! 

OFF 

SUITS -SPORTCOATS 
Savings of 
Now you can enjoy quality woven 
garments at less than vou'd 
expect to pay. Much less! 



BUY IT. WEAR IT. PAY NEXT JUNE, JULY, AUGUST 
You never pay a service or carrying charge with the Campus Shop way to buy. 
f 
') 










