On The Inside 
Gloria Shapiro talks on feminism ... page 6 
SLC studies co-ed dorms ... page 6 
Vol. VII No. 33 

Masters &Johnson pack Washington hall 
Claim religious orthodoxy can create sexual dysfunction 
by Ann Therese Darin Campus News Editor 
Religious orthodoxy, whether Roman Catholic, Jewish, or fundamentalist Protestant. can create a sexual dysfunction, claimed Dr. William H. Masters, a noted obstetrician-gynecologist last night. 
Appearing with his wife, Virginia E. Johnson. co-director of St. Louis's Reproductive Biology Research Foundation with her husband Masters, the physician lectured on "Sex as a Natural Function" to a crowd of sutdents packed into Washington Hall. 
In response to a question by a student after a forty-five minute speech, Masters made the correlation between the problem when in­dividuals interpret orthodox religion and sexual disturbances. The sex as sinful syn­drome, he revealed, is one of the greatest obstacles toward normal sexual life in America. 
For the greaeter part of their lecture, the celebrated husband and wife team traced the problems created by not viewing sex as a natural function along with. breathing, eating, and other physical realities. 
"Sex is something you were born with the facility of accomplishing," defined Johnson. "Social controls developed for natural function, but through misun­derstanding and hopefully not maliciousness, the assigned controls to sexuality did not represent the naturalness of the function." She added that the common assumption that sexuality can be exposed to artificial controls and still remain healthy, creative and a birthright is a myth. 
The key to sexuality, Masters related, he learned in interviewing prostitutes in the mid­1950's. "Don't ever try to be an expert on the other person's background or needs," he advised. "Tell the other person what you think honestly and be a good listener... No man ever has been or ever will be an expert on the female sexual function ... No woman is an expert on man's needs physically or psychologically." 
Besides stressing the concept of sexuality 
as birthright and natural, the St. Louis-based 
team also examined and destroyed several 
popular myths about sexuality in modern 
America a~ a part of life, as the responsiblity 
of the ma,e partner, and as real as the 
Madison Avenue portrayal of it in ads. 
"One of the most universal myths," said 
Johnson. "was that. sex is a part of the 
whole of living. We don't fmd that much 
living it in this fashion, though. What we find 
is that it's considered apart from per­sonality.. " 

When she and her husband first began publishing articles and books in 1960 on human sexuality, Johnson remembered the critical comments. "If you know what it is," she mimicked the critics, "if it loses its mystery, then there's nothing left." 
"Mystery or specialness," she contended, "is completely individual to the person in­volved when people seek conformity, sooner or later, the birthright will be elusive when someone tries to exercise it." 
Both Johnson and her husband also blasted the myth, sex is something a man does to or for a woman. "Women harbor a concept," believes Johnson, "that if she expresses herself in any spontaneous way, she will be thought too aggressive or wholly experienced, to put her partner in the position of notefully exercising his sexual capabilities, and to misread or transgress some kinds of male prowess." According to Johnson, this is the greatest cause of sexual dysfund­tion today. Women perceive the male as the leader in the sexual act, she said. A great degree of male impotence can be linked to the woman's inability to express herself sexually. 
"Sexual functioning is the most effective means·of communication between a man and a woman. Communication is the exchange of vulnerability," they analyzed. "Sex is with someone, not at the expense of someone." 
Because of the exaggerated importance advertising has given breasts and male genitals, Masters and Johnson also denounced Madison Avenue advertising forms. "Madison Avenue convinced America that the bigger breasted woman was sexually superior," they explained. According to the team, tragically males and females alike have become breast conscious. 
"The size of the breast has nothing whatsoever to do with female responsibility," Masters alleged. "Ifyou think it is just males who believe the myth, who buys padded bras and has breast surgery'?" he quizzed. 
They also condemned the similar phenomenon regarding male genitals. These myths, they assert, cause destruction, ap­prehension and misunderstanding. 
To illustrate the antiquated view of sexuality in modern America, Johnson referred to present Indiana state law which prohibits certain normal actions of in­tercourse. In Maryland, according to the St. Louis gynecologist, masturbation is illegal. "If one were to enforce the sex laws.in all the states," he said, "we'd have a hard time finding jailers." 
The hesitancy to. discuss sexual activity is 
not limited to public discussions, Johnson: sexuality as a healthy, creative 

birthright. 
Johnson related. The first course in American medical schools on sexual function was taught in 1960. "Twenty per cent of all medical schools today believe that medical students shouldn't be instructed on the sub­ject." he reported. 
Johnson remembered that even ten years ago the topic of sex was kept on clinical and professional level. "It wasn't until 1966 when the New York Times and the Wall Street .Journal used anatomical terms on their front pages, she recalled. "Two years ago, people were willing to talk about it (sex), but not without laughter." 
In a question and answer period following the talk, a student asked Masters if the Notre Dame regulation concerning parietals could have permanent effect on a normal sex life of a student. Masters responded "I don't think it has any!" 
He responded to a query to evaluate Dr. David Reuben's book, Everything You've Wanted To Know About Sex But Were Afraid To Ask and Any Woman Can by asking for the next question. 


Burtchaell fields questions on tenure, honesty 
by Michael Baum protects the teacher from ar­possiblity for the school to rid itself against mediocrity." bitrary dismissal, save for of incompetent teachers. Answering questions from the 
Speaking before a small "serious cause," generally gross Burtchaell said that he objected floor, the Provost explained his so­gathering at Howard Hall last incompetence or moral turpitude. to this alternative on the grounds called "2-3 rule" established last night, University Provost Fr. The concept, as Burtchaell that it did not truly preserve year, which essentially requiresJames T. Burtchaell discussed the noted, has the dual effect of academic freedom-"they will just that a department which wishes to concept of academic tenure, and protecting academic freedom, lie in wait for you longer"-and that grant tenure to more than 2-3 of its answered questions ranging from preventing the dismissal of a in practical terms it would not total faculty must present serious academic honesty to the timing of teacher who takes unpopular make it any easier to dismiss a bad cause for doing so. coed dorm announcements. stands, and ensures the university teacher. This does not necessarily limit a 
Burtchaell devoted the greater professor a measure of "job Tenure, he noted, will become an department to tenuring only 2-3 of part of the hour long session to a security." increasingly important issue for its faculty, Burtchaell explained, discussion of the background of "Tenure is coming under in­universities, since the rate of but rather provides a guideline for granting tenure to university creasing criticism nowadays," the growth of schools is presently three reasons. professors. Starting from the Provost said, "criticism that it slowing. By 1982, Burtchaell said, First, he said, "Departments are system's origin in a 1940 resolution tends to preserve mediocrity the size of colleges will have to not guaranteed expansion in the by the American Association of rather than academic freedom." A decrease because of decreased next few years,lsome must University Professors, he cited the bad teacher, once tenured, is for enrollment. decline." In addition the guideline basic reasons for a tenure system. all practical purposes impossible A few legislatures, Burtchaell "preserves flexibility in depart­
"Tenure" currently refers to a to fire. noted, have voted against tenure, ments" (by allowing room for system limiting the time a teacher There are alternate proposals, to the demoralization of the future expansion of faculty) and may be employed by a university Burtchaell noted, chiefly that faculties involved. For his own "provides for turnover of faculty" before the school must make the tenure be replaced by the awar­part, Burtchaell said, "No alter­<keeping a certain supply of decision whether to cancel his ding of long-term contracts, native has been found that is better younger teachers, generally held contract or grant the teacher compromising between security of than the tenure system. It may in to be essential for an up-to-dat~ tenure. Tenure, once granted : position for the teachers and a fact be impossible to legislate 
(continued on page 2) 


Tuesday, October 24, 1972
the observer 

Provost discusses tenure, new female dorms 
(continued from page 1) Burtchaell noted that the first students as an important con­for the rest of the term. negotiated with St. Mary's College, 
:iepartment). criterion for tenuring professors is sideration in this decision "It Burtchaell suggested that the and that "all the details about
"Most universities in the country 

teaching ability, observing that seems ridiculous to me that a Hall President's Council would graduation and that sort of thing
are going to have this sort of thing person hired primarily to teach
this differs from some schools probably be consulted by the should be out very, very soon."
in the next few years," he where research work is held to be should not be evaluated by the only Student Affairs Council, but 
Several such as the status
predicted. more important. group that sees him do it." Burt­pessimistically noted that, "The 
of courses taken by these students 
On the related subect of 

The Provost cited annual Course chaell said. He added that he HPC was asked last year for at SMC and their eligability for
Pstimating the value of instructors, 
Evaluation Forms filled out by found the evaluations, "ery suggestions as to which halls prizes awarded by the various reliable and very helpful." should be chosen, of course it never departments have yet to be an­He' also criticized the fact that made the agenda. A commission swered. 
the current Faculty Manual had no of students did make recom­

Acade.mic Council 'Will 
faculty member on grounds of commission was living in Sorin,

discuss revision report dishonor or dishonesty. "Dishonor curiously, Sorin was not mentioned is suicidal," he said, "lack of in the report."honesty is a very serious form of The date of the announcement,
meeting, scheduled for November 
intellectual suicide.'' he emphasized, was entirely a
The Academic Council yesterday 6. 
In other asnswers, Burtchaell matter of the students' interest.

voted to accept the Faculty There was also a brief general 
reiterated his view of choosing a For the University, an earlier

Manual revision report of its discussion of the steering com­
date for the naming of halls to be dates makes planning easier, he

~leering committee as a format for mittee's revision, and initial 
converted t6 coed dorms. The claimed.

futurP discussion. amendments in writing were in­
announcement, Burtchaell said, Asked about the academic
Most opposition came from vited in advance of the November 6 
should be early enough to allow the requirements of St. Mary's

l'ouncil members who favored meeting, where article-by-article 
students involved to make plans student's who will graduate with

using the Faculty Senate's discussion is expected. 
for rooms next year, but not so Notre Dame degrees, Burtchaell 

1proposed revision as a discussion The Council also: 
early as to "demoralize" the halls said tha t the matter had been

eontext. It was noted by others --Welcomed two new student 
that use of the steering committee members, James E. McLaughlin 
report did not preclude discussion <Engineering> and Thomas C. 
of any issue. The mrtter was Fenzl <Science), and elected Badin. Walsh will choose 
dPcided, after an hour's Academic Commissioner Ed Ellis 
discussion, by voice vote. to the steering committee. 
The Council also considered --Received a committee report 

without decision adoption of some which maintains the present 
3 SLC candidates today

tenure changes contained in the physical education requireme~ts 
steering committee's revision of for freshmen and approves In­
by Andy Schilling available after Badin and Walsh

the Manual. The changes were corporation of women un­
Staff Reporter passed a proposal asking that _a

discussed out of sequence in the dergraduates into the present 
Council seat for women be m­

hope that their options might be program. 
Primary elections are today in istituted for one year with full

made available this academic --Named Dean Frederick 
Badin and Walsh halls to deter­voting priveleges. 

year. Crosson of the College of Arts and 
mine the three candidates who will Originally it had been proposed

· Under the proposed revision, a Letters and Dr. John J. Fit­
compete for the seat of the women to institute an entirely new seat on

faculty member could receive a zgerald , acting director of the 
representativew on the Student the Council for the woman 

one-year terminating contract in Center for the Study of Man,-to 
Life Council. representative, but when Student

the wake of an unfavorable tenure serve as observers to the Saint 
Voting will take place from Government Official Dennis

decision, allowing a year, com­Mary's Academic Affairs Council. 
llAM to 6pm in the hall rectors' Etienne vacated his seat in ad­

pared with the present six minths, Dr. Bruno Schlesinger and Sister 
offices of Badin and Walsh. Girls vancing to the vice-presidency, the 

in which to seek another ap­Rosaleen Dunleavy, C.S.C., are 
living .off-campus should cast Council decided to permit the

pointment. Discussion will be now Saint Mary's observers to resumed at the next Council Notre Dame's Academic Council. 
warld briefs 
(C) 1972 New York Times 
WashhiKton -The capital awaited the return of Henry A. Kissinger from Saigon amid continuing speculation that a Vietnam or all-Indo-China cease-fire was near, but with no firm agreement to end the war apparently reached. It was thought that Kissinger would report to Nixon on his talks with President Nguyen Van Thieu, and probably fly to Paris to continue negotiations with the North Vietnamese there. 
New York-Twelve national art works whose total worth is estimated as more than $500,000 were stolen last Thursday

.. 
night from the Caramoor Center of Music and the Arts in suburban Katonah. The theft, which included a portrait by Lucas Cranach and Chinese works dating back to the Ming Dynasty, was not disclosed until Monday at the request of both local and federal authorities investigating the case, according to Michael Sweeley, Caramoor's executive director. 
Philadelphia -Sen. George McGovern visited patients in the United States Naval Hospital in Philadelphia to dramatize his Veterans Day pledge to provide jobs, education and health care for veterans of the Vietnam War. The Democratic presidential nominee said that he would join in the "rejoicing" if President Nixon should negotiate a peace settlement , even on election eve. 
Tarrytown, N.Y.-President Nixonattacked congressional "Big Spenders" and pledged to veto a number of "spending bills" as he campaigned through New York City's suburbs. The President'sstatement was issued at the start of a 50 mile motorcade through 13 Westchester communities. 
an c.ampu• taday 
7:30p.m .--lecture, digger phelps, sorin hall lounge 
7: 
30p.m.--yvp meeting, rapsession, Iafortune ballroom 

7: 
30p.m.--lecture, fr. james burtchaell, farley hall chapel B:OOp.m.--meeting, notre dame explorer service post, grace pit 


B:OOp.m.--debate, nixon vs. mcgovern, prof. bernard norllng and john houck, lyons hall chapel 
at nd-•mc 
provision for the dismissal of a mendations, the chairman of the 
their ballots in Walsh. women to fill Etienne's former The seven candidates running in position.
the primary are Kris Anhut, 
Debbie Dell, Wendy Duffey, 
The Observer is published.. dally
Maureen Lathers, Candy Kelly, 
during the college semester ex­
cept vacations by the students of
Diane McDonnell and Janet Walth­the University of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. Subscriptions 
man. The three candidates who 
w.in the most votes in the primary 
may be purchased for $8 per
will run on Thursday for the SLC 
semester (14 per year) from The Observer, Box Q, Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Second class 
seat. The winner among the three 
candidates will be decided by a 
postage paid, Notre Dame, Ind.
plurality. 

A6556._ 
The SLC seat was made llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll ISSUE STAFF: 



lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
,-----------l 
I !.})f!U/J< !fijj2t'J'ML, I 
I c7 I 
I £?ifea4e Je:nd nze 1 I / .// "'1/fl I
I JIOU'~l ()OOMRI .:/Wwto I I OJJ I'M · d" I
I ;;oull a :::LJeanwn . I 
I Yen~e5()¢ I I I 
\ Name I 
(Please print) 

: Address : 
: City __State---Zip__ : 
:nFFANY&co. : 
I 715 North Michigan Ave. I I Chicago, Illinois 60611 I
L ___________ ...J 






OCTOBER FEST 
Of' 

Marshall County Parachute Cent October 28th & 29th 
Skydiving Comp. Film Fest Night Jumps Home Cooked Meals
555 Helicopter 
Hay Rides
Rock Band 
Fireworks

Camping Facilities 
Bunk House 

Bring Your Sleeping Bag Oct. 28 -$3.00 Tic::ket for Film Fest & all the beer you can drink. 
Come and sign up for your skydiving instructions. 
Corner of Pine Lake Rd. & M62 
4 miles north of Edwardsburg, Mich. (616) 445-2751 
~------------------------------------~ 

----~------~----­

Tuesday, October 24, 1972 
the observer 
3 

Democrats launch huge media campaign 
by Warren Weaver, Jr. 
case and his refusal to plublicly The radio commercfa1s consist cent. campaign aide tapped Democratic <C> 1972 New York Times debate the South Dakotan. of the soundtrack of the television "Since Mr. Nixon has been telephone lines and submitted his 
Washington, Oct. 23--"Since Mr. The broadcast material is by far spots. One radio spot that was not President, theft is up 47 per cent. findings to the chief White House Nixon has been President, rape is the most outspoken that the produced for television suggests When he came into office, the congressional liaison man, "The up 22 per cent " an announcer McGovern campaign has em­that former Secretary of Com­number of serious crimes reported President's chief function is to observes in a matter-Qf-fact tone. ployed. Until now, virtually all the merce John B. Connally, a each day in America was 10,000. lead, not to oversee every detail "Since Mr. N1xon has been Democratic spots were designed to registered Texas Democrat, is Today it is 17,000. In a nationwide but to put the right people in President, aggrabated assault is promote McGovern rather than supporting Nixon because the radio address in 1968, Mr. Nixon charge, provide them with basic up 25 per cent" attack his opponent. President has said he not only said: 'For my part, I will make guidance and let them do the job," 
That spoken message, The new television spots consist favors present tax advantages for this pledge: I will never promise said in 1968. simultaneously flowing in print up of nothing but a "crawl," white the oil industry "but going even what I can't deliver."' --Qn ending the war in Vietnam,the home television screen, is one type moving slowly up a black further than that." In other commercials, the "Those who have had a chance for of several blunt blows aimed at screen as a voice reads the same The text of the crime spot, one of McGovern forces repeatedly use. four years and could not producePresident Nixon as the media message. the toughest of the new sequence, Nixon's past statements against peace should not be given another campaign of Sen. George S. At the end, the standard closing reads in full: "In 1968, Candidate him, recalling that he once ob­chance," said in 1968. McGovern reaches its climactic frame of the McGovern spots Richard Nixon said: 'A Nixon served: Meanwhile, for several weeks,phase. appears briefly: a profile of the Administration can wage war --on the value of televised the Republicans, through their 
During the next two weeks, the Senator at the left, his last name in against crime and violence.' Since debates between Presidential Democratic allies, have been Cemocrats will invest up to $2 large type and a small line Mr. Nixon has been President, candidates, "Television debates running harsh anti-McGovern million in both radio and television acknowledging that it had been a rape is up 22 per cent. Since Mr. give voters the opportunity to see spots, showing him decimating the spots that attack the President piad political announcement. The Nixon has been President, the real man, not the synthetic defense establishment, suggesting frontally on such issues as crime, usual spoken tagline, aggravated assault is up 25 per product of public relations ex­that he cannot make up his mind unemployment, inflation, Viet­"McGovern...Democrat...for the cent. Since Mr. Nixon has been perts." and accusing him of wanting to put nam, the Watergate espionage country" has been dropped. President, robbery is up 'l:l per --Qn reports that a Republican nearly half the nation on welfare. 
Shapiro attacks the antifeminism in literature 
by Maria Gallagher 

her husband's funeral, only to valuable but her thought is the adjectives he uses to describeSt. Mary's Editor relate to the would-be suitor that valueless." her are dame, broad, cow, bit-
A "gross absence of truth" exists she had already been promised at Again paralleling Juvenal, ch ... Marget's husband Arkin is no today in contemporary fiction the wake. Sammler remarks that "She was better; calling her 'a first class which portrays only "half of "The same humor persists boundlessly ... hopelessly ... on the device--if you point her in the right humanity," according to Gloria today," Shapiro declared. "You right side of every big human direction." Shapiro, who spoke last night at always hear mother-in;law jokes, question." This Shapiro connected She also contrasted the ac-Saint Mary's on the topic of but never any father-in-law jokes." to Juvenal's concept of woman as ceptibility of male "messiness" vs. "Antifeminism in Literature: An In this same tradition, annoyingly right on occasion and Female "messiness". Historical Pespective." Juvenalian anti-feminism persists his degredation of even the Male messiness endears the 
Shapiro, an associate professor in contemporary fiction. As good woman: "even when she is character to the reader and of English at Indiana University at examples, she chose Carlos good, she is bad." Sammler, by the illustrates his "humanness", while 'South Bend, chose not to "march Fuentes' The Death of Artemio end of the book is "passionately female messiness as illustrated by through a host of examples like a Cruz, and saul Bellow's Mr. annoyed that Marget presumes to Shula is "undesirable and chronological militawoman," but Sammler's Planet. Shapiro singled think, and then dares to talk to.him loathsome." rather cited the prechristian out these because they were about it." "You can't love Shula," claimed Roman writer Juvenal as one of "artists of undeniable stature,'~ Shapiro called the treatment of Shapiro.the first examples of antifeminism Gloria Shapiro lectured on Anti-and wished to avoid discussion the women throughout the novel The second work cited by in literature, and paralleled his Feminism in literature last night "predictably sexist or unimportant "vividly disgusting and Shapiro as representative of 
illogic" in Carroll Hall. · " · k " Be11 • h con t an t' f · ·
"masculine to Chaucer, wnters. m1sta en. ow s c aracter Dr. emporary 1-emm1st and contemporary figures such as of her ideas,. but at her Shapiro postulated that Bellow's Gruner dispenses with the women sentiment was The Death of Ar-Saul Bellow and Carlos Fuentes. presumption to assert herself at work is "an unconscious of Hunter College as "charming, temio Cruz by Carlos Fuentes. 
"Juvenal had two primary all, and most of all, at her often manifestation of anti-feminist idiotic, nonsensical girls..now and Fuentes' women, Shapiro felt are criticisms of woman: first, as an being correct. Shapiro further feelings," as demonstrated by his then a powerful feminine in-more narrowly defined ·than excessively sexual being, and reported that Juvenal considered it "painting" of the characters tellect..." Here Shapiro hit Bellow Bellow's. secondly, as offensively in-proper for men, but not for women, Marget and Shu!a, in huge for "confusing the sexual and "Fuentes romanticised the tellectual," she asserted. to seek an education. Juvenalian strokes." intellectual, and insinuating that concept of defloweration and 
Shapiro then illustrated the "Juvenal was the ultimate "Marget is introduced as a "even the presence of male rape," Shapiro declared, and bac­"double standard" which exists in sexist: even when woman was rather pleasant person, but professors cannot redeem a ked up her statement with a brief such criticism: throughout good, she was intolerable. 'Let Sammler's dislike for her develops women's college." of one incident in the novel: Ar­literature, she feels, venial faults her be wealthy, fertile, a rare as the story progresses and she Most female readers, Shapiro temio rapes an eighteeen year old in man become elevated to the bird ... but who could stand such a demonstrates her mind. Sam-believes, will be especially Mexican virgin whichhas such an level of vice when applied to perfect wife?' asks Juvenal. Any mler.s criticism is initially mild, repelled by the passages dealing impact on the girl that she sub­women; and even some things way you look at it, the woman loses but increases by degrees: she with the character Shula. Bellow sequently follows him around from considered to be "good" in men out." seldom stops to listen ... " he notes, treats her and her fellow village to village. are "bad" in women. Women throughout history have apparently sympathizing with bohemians in a discriminatory "This dimension of absurdity," 
To support this hypothesis, been the butt of comedy, Shapiro Juvenal's claim that women are manner: " ... the females needed she claimed, "would not be ac­Shapiro noted that excessive felt, and she cites such examples excessively verbal, and towards more grooming, pruning, ... and cepted by a publisher if the roles sexual activity in literature on the as an excerpt from a 1525 joke the end becomes quite vindictive: training ... and were more inclined were reversed." male's part was rarely treated as book, and Chaucer's wife of Bath. "She talks junk ... thought is to bad smells." Bellow here seems Shapiro said that on the whole, wrong; on the contrary, it was Shapiro viewed Dame Alice as the Rules Co·n.n.-iffee to imply that all women are "grotesque versions of feminine used to emphasize his virility. "composite of anti-feminist :a.r..u.r..u naturally dirty. nature now repel women, whereas Women, however, who were the anecdotes from both the pre and Shapiro felt that Bellow's sexism they had previously gone ignored least bit sexual were traditionally post-Chaucerian periods." In other WOrks on OUtline in the novel is stretched to almost or unanswered." held as "immoral." words, anti-feminist humor falls incredible proportions in his Shapiro concluded by clarifying 
While Juvenal considered into a more or less traditional father-daughter relationships. her angle of criticism: that of both
by J. Patrick Boyle II 
women "offensively intellectual," scheme, and has remained "Fathers are genera y com-a feminist and a humanist critic, 1 he admitted in a later statement essentially the same. The Rules Committee of the passionate with their daughter-and called for non-sexual, in-that he not only is annoyed by The 16th century joke concerned Student Life Council had their s .. but Bellow's Dr Gruner is tellifent literary criticism. women's excessive verbalization a woman who was proposed to at organizational meeting esterday !~eking in kindness even toward "Lite~ature is a vehicle bywhich 1s nf afternoon to discuss 1general his own flesh and blood: some of people! mcrease. 
ta ord, Keenan suggestedoug~~~o~~~~~~tt~a~~~~·was."a Rule enforcement is focus 
general rap sessiOn. We JUSt 

j
kicked around ideas and explored certain areas that may afffect the

as possible female dorms ,
committee this year." Most of the 

of Hall Life commitee work ,
by Lee E. Klosinsi which will make the final decision. forty-five minute meeting dealt ,Staff Reporter At this organizational meeting a with the pending piece of The Campus Life Subcommittee number of criteria to be considered legislation in the Indiana State 
The Student Life Council Hall off-campus housing to make room ~ 
of the Student Life Council met before a decision would be reached Legislature which, if passed, Life Committee met for the first 
for incoming freshmen was tied in
would change the majority rule

yesterday and unanimously were discussed. They included time yesterday and set priorities with the topic of rule enforcement 
selected the North Quad as the site establishing a liason with the from 21 years to 18 years. Fr. and courses of action for the year. as the group felt that students 
of the women's dorm. The two rector's committee and studying Riehle, chairman of the com­The enforcement of hall rules, continually breaking hall rulesthe structure, location, spirit, mittee, said that the possible ef­
towers were ruled out because of the chief area of concern for the would be the first to be put off 
their location and Stanford-Keenan activities, and alumni, student, effec_ts the bill would have on the committee, drew many comments, campus. was regarded as only acceptable and female opinion of each hall. Notre . Dame community were and the group decided that Lotteries and grade point as a site for co-ed housing. Sr. John Miriam suggested discussed briefly. alternate ways of enforcing such averages, now used as the means
This group, consisting of Sr. meeting with the hall presidents Dennis Ettiene, who was very rules as noise, destruction of of room selection for up­
involved. She stated that the pleased with the way the meeting
John Miriam, asssistant to the property, and violations of perclassmen, were also reviewed 
provost, Dean Leslie Foschio, number of women admitted next went, wants to contact other parietals had be researched the committee and alternate
to by

Professor Ronald Weber, student year will not be determined until student governments in Indiana to fully. They felt tentatively that plans were discussed with no final Jim hunt, and the women's SLC next month when the quota see what provisions their colleges 
these probelms should fall decisions made. The "stay hall
representative who is to be elected committee meet She also ex­are making in regard to the 18 year 
basically upon the individt,al system", relatively new to Notre
this week, has been asked to make plained that the question of junior old adult. a student must
student. Dame, in which 
two dorm recommendations: one and senior women living off It was also decided that An open hearing will be hdd remain in his original hall all four suggestion for a co-ed dorm, campus has yet to be decided. She residency and alcohol on campus 
sometime next week for the years, will also be investigated by
another suggestion for a regular stressed that "all of this must be would be areas explored and students to relate their problems, the members in the meetings towomen's form. taken into consideration." discussed by the committee in the viewpoints, and suggestions to come.
The CLC is one of four com­The committee will meet next coming year. Fred Guiffrida, Committee members. Students, if All committee members felt that mittees working on recom­week to establish the criteria that another student member of the they wish, may remain anonymous the area of refrigerator fines andmendations that will be it will use to make its recom­committee, could not be reached during the informal hearing. violations was a trivial matter inrepresented to the administration, mendation. for his comments. 
The displacement of students to their list of priorities for the year. 
The Last Hurrah

THE OBSERVER 

Women
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
News: 283-1715 Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, 
on the SLC? Editorial: 213-8661 on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the Business: HJ-7.,1 individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
ann therese darin

Tuesday, October 24, 1972 


A Tough Job Ahead 
Whoever comes out on top in the election of a woman representative to the Student Life Council will actually come out at the bottom of a lot of work that must be done. 
The SLC has the makings of an exciting body this year. Simply from the point of view of meetings as a complete body, and as a council of committees, it shows signs 
of surpassing the efficiency of any SLC in the past. 
Its members realize this is a do or die year, and they certainly are showing all the vital signs of life. Meetings have not become bogged in Robert's Rules of Order, and the reason seems to be a general spirit of cooperation among all parties, rather than the student versus administration contests of the past when the faculty was courted or pressured to cast the deciding votes a certain way. 
Perhaps this is only because the council is just beginning to scratch the surface of major issues. When it does penetrate to the guts of the issues, the members will find more than enough work to keep them busy. 
Much to be done 

The presfture will be heightened for the eventual winners of today's primary because she will, in addition to being the first woman representative, she will be introducing herself to Notre Dame bureaucracy without being able to see the
r 
r forest for the trees. r Upon election the new ·member will be 
r 
r Letters...
r 
r sex & myth 
Editor: 
f 
In his review of Sex and Myth 
by Eugene Kennedy, Father 
McNally cites studies showing 
"young men and women who have 
been virgins before marriage 
make better adjustments and are 
less likely to divorce than those 
who have had premarital sex 
relations." While the statistic is 
probably reliable, I object to the 
implicit suggestion of a causal 
relationship between non-virginity 
and marital disharmony. Because 
the two are correlated with one 
another does not allow the 
assumption of causality. It is 
possible that factors associated 
with persons involved in 
premarital sexual behavior might 
have some role in disrupting 
marjtal stability, but not 
a lack of virginity, per se. 
Sincerely, 
Gerald W. Giantonio 
Department of Psychology 
COUP 

To trustees, faculty, students, administration, and alumni Notre Dame: 
r 
~ 
r 
r 
r 
r 
r 
,r 
r 
r 
r 

assigned to the Campus Life Committee. This is probably the most important SLC committee as far as students are con­cerned because it will recommend a North Quad dormitory as the next woman's hall, as well as investigate a coed halL 
Before the recommendation is made the committee will establish a liason with the rectors' committee; and study the structure, location, spirit activities, and alumni, student and feminine opinions of each hall under consideration. 
In addition to this she will be respon­sible for digesting reports and casting responsible votes on issues researched by the other three committees, and main­taining efficient communication with her constituents. 
Primary is important 

Today's primary is not important because it narrows the field of candidates from six to three, but because the best three must be selected from the run-off. 
Those of you who will care enough to vote should keep the above respon­sibilities in mind, or more than just the woman students will lose the extra benefits of having the best person in the SLC. 
The campus is not only watching this election, but it is counting on you whether it will admit it or not. 
As nearly everyone connected with the Notre Dame community must have heard by now, Father Hesburgh has appointed a Com­mittee on University Priorities which is charged to assess the University's "total mission" with a view to determining which are the most important elements of this mission "as contrasted with what might have seemed desirable under other circumstances.'' Such an assessment will make it easier to evaluate present and future priorities in the various areas of University life. The day-to-day running of the University requires incessant decisions, and thus in­volves explicit and implicit priorities. But, as Father Hesburgh notes, the present times seem to call for a thorough-going scrutiny of these priorities in the context of the aims of the University taken as a whole. The Committee will report to the Academic Council. The Committee has for a start decided to set up task forces in four areas: Research and Instruction, University Disciplines, University Facilities, and Enrollment. other groups will be constituted later. These task forces will directly 
Don Ruane 
involve many people outside the Committee itself, adding welcome expertise and drawing on every 
relevant point of view in preparation for the difficult and complex discussions that lie ahead. The composition of the first task forces will be announced shortly. 
In the meantime, the Committee would like to solicit suggestions and advise from trustees, faculty, students, administration, and alumni. The matter of University priorities is one in which everyone is engaged, and on which everyone has ideas to contribute . The Committee would be ineffective if it were to attempt to work in isolation; it intends on the the contrary to draw on the experience of the university community as a whole in every way that is feasible. 
Your help is sincerely and in­sistently requested in order that our task may be successfully carried through. 
Sincerely, Ernan McMullin, Secretary University Committee on Priorities 


Buried on the second page of last Wenesday's Observer was an in­teresting notice. According to the six-paragraph announcement, there will be a special election "to select a representative for the Student Life Council from Badin and Walsh" on Tuesday, October 24." This statement is attributed to Peg Pollara, a "member of the Walsh executive council" The announcement continues "one representative from Badin, Walsh, off-campus women and Notre Dame women living at St. Mary's will be elected." No where in the article is the question "WHY?" raised or answered. In the original story reporting the SLC meeting last week where the decision was reached published last Tuesday, there was also no mention of "WHY?" But, it is this question and its answer which is more important than all of the trivial election rules. 
Why should the SLC seat a woman representing the newly-admitted Notre Dame coeds? Why should the Student Life Council designate a seat which was for the the Student Body President and decided that a woman, who would be elected in a special election, assume all the rights and privileges that go with it? Who is Peg Pollara and what is her relationship with student government which usually monitors the SLC elections? 
Since women arrived on campus last month, there has been a movement afloat to make sure that they feel at home-to make sure that they feel they are one with the students. It was a noble, if im­possible, task for the older students to attempt to make the new women feel at ease -especially when they were competing with a deluge of microphones, television cameras, a corps of newspaper and magazine reporters misquoting and photographing every woman in sight. But,if I remember correctly, the general theme of the welcome was to make the women feel a part of as opposed to apart of the campus. It was this idea that was fostered during the first Student Life Council election last mongh. The two women's dorms were placed in a district with three other dorms, Dillon, Alumni, and Sorin. An advantage for a woman to be elected. The student government poohbahs who divided the districts could have split the two women's dormitories lumping the Badin votes with Morrissey, Howard and Lyons and Walsh's votes with St. Ed's, Cavanaugh and Zahm. In the first election the women were treated as equals. No woman chose to run for the district V seat during the nominating period. So the race was between Frank Devin of Dillon, H-Man <Dennis Etienne) of Alumni and a freshman. Jan Waltman, a third-floor Badin resident decided to run as a write-in candidate on the day of election. In spite of her good showing 002 votes) compared with 193 for Devine and 118 for H-Man, she lost. But more important than her good showing was that the women were equal with the men. They were treated as Notre Dame students, not as women, not as objects, but on a par with the residents of Alumni, Sorin and Dillon. 
Less than a month later, the Student Life Council decided to give the seat vacated by Bob Kersten to a woman representative. Although no reason has been publicly given for the decision, the most recurring one around campus is that the SLC wanted to give the women a voice on campus-to make them equal. They have a voice on campus. They freely elected Frank Devine to be their spokesman on the Student Life Council. There are approximately 300 women living in Badin and 
Walsh and not even half of them chose to elect a woman to the Stucent Life Council. It would be interesting to survey the SLC representatives to see whose dictum they were following in designating a woman to sit on the Board. Surely not the women's vote. It is also hardly likely that they were following the recommendations of the administrator's in the provost's office, since Sr. John Miriam Jones can act as spokesman for the undergraduate women and their so-called problems. 
By letting the women of Notre Dame elect an undergraduate woman representative to the Student Life Council, the SLC is committing several injustices. The SLC is degrading the Notre Dame women. Instead of treating them as equals (as they the in the first SLC election last month>, the council is treating the women unequally by giving them special privileges not allowed to other minority groups on campus. For example, if the SLC is so concerned about minority representation on the Council, why wasn't a seat apportioned to the black student community of the chicano student community as well as the women? While some would argue that the problems inherent in accepting women as Notre Dame students could be alleviated with an SLC seat, the even more serious problems which other minority groups not as lucky as the women , face on this campus deserve equal concern and treatment. 
Second, the SLC is dealing an injustice to Frank Devine, the original representative of District V: Badin, Walsh, Alumni, and Dillon, and Sorin. How seriously will his opinions be considered at SLC meetings, since he represents only half of a district? By decreasing the number of students in Devine's district, the SLC is also doing an injustice to the remaining constituents of District V in Dillon, Sorin and Alumni. Perhaps the majority of residents in these halls did not want Devine as their SLC representative, perhaps they wanted H-Man or perhaps, knowing that the representative would be from Dillon, Sorin, or Alumni, they would have chosen to elect someone else entirely? It is not fair to these students to have Devine represent them when they might not have wanted him. 
However, the greatest injustice is being done to the women them­selves. The women chosen in today's primary are chosen because they are women, not because of any talent or experience she might they might incidentally have. They will be a token to pacify the conscience of the SLC. They can alays turn to the woman SLC member and say, "As a woman ... " or "as the representative for the women on cam­pus ... " 
Another injustice is being done to the Notre Dame women who must live at St. Mary's this year.According to the opening sentence of Wednesday's article the representative must live in Badin and Walsh, however, any undergraduate Notre Dame woman can vote. But, which Notre Dame women living at SMC? There are at least three distinct classes. 
It is unfortunate that Notre Dame has chose to seat a woman on the Student Life Council in the manner they have chosen. Instead of acknowledging the important contributions that women can make on this campus as equals, they have insulted their new women students by making them tokens. 



manassas -friday 

no one wiII know, except me 
"I like to get away from studios as much in the film, spent four hours on top of a as I possibly can," says Ken Russell. "It's precarious 25-foot-high statue in the Bristol invariably more pleasant, authentic and University Building (doubling for the convenient. It's almost like going away on Louvre Museum in Paris) doing 'takes' and holiday. . . " 'retakes,' as an exasperated Attendant 
For non-stop worker Russell this must <Peter Vaughan) attempted to bring him rank as the overstatement of the year. But, down. "It's tough at the top,'' he gagged as since he is never really happy unless he is he clung on ready for the twentieth 'take'. busily making a picture, as far as he is Bristol brought back many happy concerned, every day's a holiday. . . m_emories fo_r Dorothy '!utin, since it was 
This current "holiday" was for the w1th the Bnstol Old VIc that she played making of MGM's "Savage Messiah," in many of her ~arli~r r~les back in the 'fifties. which producer-director Russell stars One locatiOn highlight ~arne when Ken Dorothy Tutin, Scott Antony and Helen Russell ha_d to compete with the roar~ of a Mirren. Peter Vaughan, Michael Gough, young gonlla a~d the sn~rls of ~ middl~­Lindsay Kemp and John Justin also portray aged ti_ger whilst s~ootmg ou~side th~Ir important roles. respective cages at Chfton Zoo, JUSt outside 
· The film is the story of the haunting Bristol. Ru~sell, needless to say, won the 
relationship between a young French day. Esp~cially after he had arranged for 
sculptor, Henri Gaudier-Brzeska, and a the two ammal~ to have_ an extr~ feed as a 
Polish woman twice his age, Sophie Br-reward for tak~ng_ part m the picture 1 .. 
zeska. and is set in Paris and London shortly Easter vacat10nmg ~tudents fr?m Bnstol 
before the First World War. Christopher University and the Bnstol Old VIc Theatre 
Logue wrote the screenplay. Sch?ol appeared as. Edwardian 'e~tras' in 
After completing studio and London vanous scenes, as did the small ch~ldren of 
shooting on "Savage Messiah," Russell and Ken Russell an? star Dorothy Tutm. 
his movie-making team went to a host of Ken Russell himself appeared as a _por~ly, 
places in the South and West of England, cloaked, _top-hatted_ passenger ahghtmg 
including Arundel and Horsted Keynes, from a rmlway carnage at Horsted Keynes 
Sussex; Weymouth and Portland, Dorset; Station. "As f~r as. I ~as concerned I was a 
Bristol· and Bath Somerset for location famous stage lllus10mst on my way to my 
filming'. ' next theatrical engagement," he explained, 
Actor Scott Antony, who plays the key role "but, of course, no one will know that except of French sculptor Henri Gaudier-Brzeska me...!.. 
rishi at Iafortune 
"Place your feet firmly when you stand on the earth ; think of your body as a perfect tool through which the divine energy will flow ...It's very important to learn how to breath. We also learn how to receive and how to give---breathing in -receiving, breathing out-giving." Rishi, the ~irect~r of the International Yoga Center m Pans will be at ND tomorrow in the LaFortune Ballroom Tuesday October 24th, co­sponsored' by graduate sc_hool of r~lig~ous education and academic commiSSion. Starting at 7 pm there will be two films ~35 minutes) followed by a demonstratiOn 
conducted by Rishi in Yoga and_ Do-In, an ancient Japanese massage techmq~e ?~s~d on the principles of acupunctu_re. RishiiS m the United States giving semmars to Yoga teachers in Chicago, Los Angeles and San Francisco. Control, energy and inner fire, turned on and tune in, best describe h~m. Release tension, get the energ~ flowmg throughout your whole ?ody, get h~gh. Come tomorrow night and brmg a sleepmg bag or a blanket; the floor has splinters, that's a 
FXC;L''''·'''~''''""'::;:;:,::,_: more advanced trip. 
Tuesday, October 24, 1972 the observer 
5 


In a sense, Manassas is the album where other musicians are totally tuned in to what Stephen Stills brings it all back home. The Stills is trying to do and their backing LP, a double set recorded with the help of harmonies co-writing <Hillman, Taylor, musicians like Chris Hillman, Paul Harris, Lala, and the Stones' Bill Wyman) and Joe Lala, AI Perkins, Dallas Taylor, and playing is simply perfect. Manassas not Fuzzy Samuels, is built around a matrix of only provides the framework for a pure country music and rock and roll. The kaledoscopic projection of the many sides of overall feeling that pervades each track is Stephen Stills, it gives him enough room to very much akin to that projected by the stretch out and distill both music and lyric Buffalo Springfield in its heyday. Direct, into their purest form. The material covers unaffected lyrics supported by highly the specific joys of Stephen's home en­­charged musicianship, beautiful melodies vironments on both sides of the Alantic and arrangements. As always Stills has (Colorado-England) and all the craziness he undertaken a gargantuan task with this encounters between those two sanctuaries; record. To provide enough valid material loving tributes to the music of his beginning, for a double set (21 songs to be exact), the joys and woes of relationships and his oversee the production, correlate the efforts continuing desire to communicate a of the other musicians, and assume the direction for a change in consciousness to lion's share of the playing and vocal duties his listeners. The album covers and ex­is a staggering task for even the most gifted traordinary amount of territory, but more musicians. Stills pulls the whole thing off important, it is a consistently powerful with deceptive ease. contemporary statement. A lot of people 
There is really no filler on this album. The are gonna be floored when they hear it. 
The One Last Weekend 

henry mancini: goose bump night 
;aseph abell 
Y'know, a lot of people get something called "goose bumps" or "goose flesh" under certain conditions (other than South Bend's meterology report>. Like when a nice, warm feeling goes through them or when they remember a particularly good time in the past or a good idea they had forgotten. These people get that wonderful shivery feeling and the goose bumps ap­pear. 
Last Friday night, I got an epidemic of goose bums. I heard all those old favorites by Henry Mancini, and that nice warm feeling went through me. I enjoyed every minute of it. For me, Mancini's great music number of different arrangements. the was enough. Dixieland version of "King Herod's Song" 


But from this concert, I am convinced that and the hauntingly quiet version of "I Don't for Mancini the music alone is not all; that Know How To Love Him" hitting peaks. the real key lies in arrangement. Much of The Simon and Garfunkle set was in­the music played Friday wasn't Mancini's teresting, especially the way Mancini had own, but Mancini-treated works. Songs like adapted simple songs for a full . or­" Scarborough Fair," "The Sounds of chestration. Some efforts did backfire, Silence," "Theme from Ironside," and however, like the ragtime "Mrs. Robinson." "Superstar" took on entirely new meanings. As for the medley of his own music, while 
Mancini seems to have a talent for not as diverse in arrangements, it came off recognizing a contemporary song for its very effectively, due to a determination not total worth. which is often beyond what the to linger on any one song, and a masterful original artist does, and adding to that blending of songs into one another. worth through his arrangements. However, the concert wasn't exactly 
The presenatation of his own work is "Wine and Roses," so to speak. Mancini's better than that. From the first familiar witticisms were less than brilliant chords to the end, the mischievous and a few of the numbers struck a bad note. character of the Pink Panther could almost But the topper came at the start of the be seen lurking behind the stage, Peter second part of the show, when Mancini Gunn was almost expected to walk out on abdicated his stage for two standup stage, and the two outlandish cars of The "comedian-singers." Called Bellon and Great Race could almost be heard in the Sommerville, the pair painfully went distance. through new versons of old Smothers 
The highlight of the show was by far the Brothers routines interspersed with songs rendition of "A Time for Us," love theme such as "Mickey Mouse's Birthday Party." from Romeo and Juliet. This is definitely They reached a comical high with some 50's one of the most beautiful modern com-rock-n-roll impersonations, but promptly positions and the most tastefully arranged. went downhill again. And then they ex­The simplicity of the piano soloist picking pected the audience to take them seriously out the melodic line with the orchestra when theysang "He's Not Heavy, He's My setting the quiet tone kept the audience Brother"? The entire act belonged in a totally hushed throughout, and enthusiastic second-rate nightclub, not on tour with at the end. Henry Mancini. 
Some of Mancini's newer pieces were also Mancini finally came back with a tune performed most notably, the "Theme from called "The Cat," tht literally exploded with the Mancini Generation,'' his new television jazz solos from nearly every instrument. show. Mancini expressed hope that this including drums. Now, I normally despise theme would eventually rank with some of drum solos, but this one impressed ·me. · his others, but I'm afraid he'll be disap-Quite a few rock drummers who tend to pointed. While interesting in parts, the degenerate into random banging in solos piece has not dominant theme, a trait that could take some lessons from drummer made his other works so popular. Jack Gilfoy. 
Also included were three medleys: a set And of course, Mancini's almost infamous of songs from Jesus Christ, Superstar, a set "The Stripper" was there twice even. The of Simon and Garfunkle goodies, and a set of audience cheered. what could be called "Mancini's greatest All in all, it was a night for goose bumps. hits." The Superstar medley included a See you next year, Henry. 

.-------------------------------------~-----~------~~­

by David Rust Observer Staff Reporter 
The six members of the Student Life Council Planning Committee yesterday assigned priorities to the issues relegated to it by the SLC during the Committee's first meeting yesterday afteroon. 
Committee member Robert Ackerman, Director of Student a Affairs for the University, termed this first meeting an "organizational" endeavor. 

According to Floyd Kezele, another of the Committee and Towers District representative to the SLC, the Committee in deciding not to elect a chairman, sets its operative posture at the committee-of-the-shile status," choosing only a secretary to keep
-minutes which are subsequently sent to the SLC secretary. The committee, a balanced group of two students, two faculty members and two administrators, discussed the prospect of alternate life styles for the halls and in­dividuals on campus. Under this heading comes the desirability of and methods of implementing coed 
Tuesday, October 24, 1972
the observer

6 




SLC committee 
Bayh, Brade~nas teaiJl swing through area 
by Jerry Lutkus 
U. S. Senator Birch Bayh made a campaign swing through northern Indiana yesterday afternoon pushing the re-election of Congressman John Brademas. 
Bayh, the Junior Senator from Indiana, struck out at the Nixon Administration and called at­tention to Brademas' record in Congress. His trip included stops in Michigan City, South Bend, Goshen, and Elkhart. 
Bayh and Brademas addressed a crowd at a noontime luncheon at the Morris Inn. The crowd, con­sisting mainly of St. Joseph County Democratic leaders, heard Bayh claim the President Nixon's priorities are "out of whack." 
In particular Bayh questioned Nixon's veto of the anti-pollution bill last week. He claimed that even though the President vetoed the bill for inflationary reasons, he nonetheless went ahead with plans to ask Congress to fund plans for a Trident submarine which wasn't even off the drawing board yet. 
After the luncheon, the two In­diana politicians stopped at the UAW Local 9 hall in South Bend. 

dorms. 
As of this date, reports Kezele, letters have been sent to 22 dif­ferent universities maintaining coed dorms, requesting a report on their experences with the arrangement. 
Committee personnel suggested other forms this change in lifestyles could take, including creating some kind of system in which faculty live in the student residence hals, such as Prof. Frank O'Malley now living in Lyons. 
Another direction, decided the committee, could be to allow married hall resident assistants, or hall residence by other married university personnel, in an effort to bring more family life onto the campus to break the campus' sometimes "closed and stagnant" atmosphere. 
Considerations for renovation and new uses for the LaForutne Student Center, recently subjects of some discussion in ad­ministrative and student gover­nement circles, were batted about by the Committee yesterday af­ternoon. 
"We're not interested so much in 
crowd on the problems of the aged and aging. 
Bayh again took the opportunity to slash at the priorities of the Nixon Administration. 
After a half-hour ride, Brademas and Bayh took to the streets of Goshen shaking hands before they proceeded to Goshen College to address another small crowd. 
Bayh spoke of the "mediocrity" of the Nixon administration, the case of unsuccessful appointee Harold Carswell. 
"Not only was Carswell a racist, but he was a mediocre racist at that," Bayh claimed. 
Brademas joined in the attack pointing out the corruption of the Nixon White House. 
"I believe that the Vietnam War has dulled the moral consciousness of the American people," Brademas said. We cannot scream out with moral outrage any longer he asserted. 
According to the congressman, the dulled consciousness permits 
the  people  to  overlook  the  
corruption,  the  incidents  like  
Watergate,  and  deals  like  the  

wheat trade with Russia. 
From Goshen College, the en­tourage proceeded to Elkhart for 

Sen. Birch Bayh (left) and Cong. John Brademas aHacked the priorities of the Njxon administration before Democratic leaders of the Morris Inn. 
*ATTENTION HALLS* 
Mardi •>a~ t:omrtr,..._e Wants Volunteers For Hall Representatives· To Handle Raffle Ticket Distribution 
CALL TONY MALENCH 1691 


studies 
(architectural) change," said 
Kezele,  "as  we  are  in  how  
students  want  LaFortune  to  be  
used."  Kezele cited  a  possible  

need for more recreational facilities, now limited to pool and ping pong equipment. 
The Committee learned that the University has affiliated itself with a national student center association in order to gain itself access to information concerning student center redirection and renovation. 
In its one hour and a half meeting the committee heard and gnerally accepted Kezele's suggestion that questionnaires be used extensively in determining how ND students feel about these and other questions. 
Kezele said he'a had success with questionnaires in his first term last year as Tower District representative to the SLC. 
Ackerman defneds the use of questionnaries against dtractors, terming them best suited for the committee's purposes, not of "research" but simply of gauging 

coed dorm idea 
"student opinion." The committee effects of Indiana-s establishment 
agreed that their wrk should be of the age of majority at eighteen
concerned with "issues that range should it come. ' across more than one SLC," and 
Members present at the meeting 
that keeping track of the student were Kezele, Ackerman, Frank opinion Committee members also 
Devine, Philip Faccenda, Johnagreed to join forces with other Borkowski and Fred Syburg. TheSLC committees (Hall Life, committee's next meeting will be Campus Life and Rules and at the same time and place thisRegulations l in meeting issues Monday.
related to its own, including the 
Ford Foundation to award grad ~tudent lellowshi~ 
by Path Shea Fellowship awards will include 
Full tuition and living expenses the full tuition and fees required by will be awarded to U.S. graduate the graduate school, an allowance students from minority groups of $300 for books and supplies, and under a new Ford Foundation a monthly stipend of $250 to help fellowship program. meet living costs according to the 
Two types of fellowships, a Ford Foundation. Course of Study Award and Students applying for these Dissertation Awards for eligible fellowships must be U.S. citizens, Mexican, Indian, Puerto Rican, enrolled in or planning to enter a and Black American students have U.S. graduate school, and be been announced for the 1973-74 planning a career in higher academic year. education. 
Student Social Union Commission 
presents 

FREE EXHIBITION Featuring Internationally famous Pocket Billiard and Trick Shot Artist 

JACK WHJTE 
LaFortune Poolroom 3:30-5:30 
Senior Bar 8:30 -10:30 
THURSDAY OCTOBER 26th
-

YoungVoters for the President 
Let's Get To Work 
MEETING TONIGHT 




7:30 

LaFortune Center 1 -c Four More Years 



ID checker reinstated at the South Dining Hall 
by J. P. Berry 
A student petition helped Mary Carmola, an ID checker at the west end of the south dining hall, to be reinstated to her post after being temporarily switched to the east section. 
Nick Catrambone, who started the petition said yesterday, "We met her last year and we just got to know her very well. She usually sits down and talks to us after they shut the dining hall, but not long ago, we noticed she wasn't there. It just wasn't the same, so we drew up a petition and gave it to the dining hall administration. It took us a half hour to get 150 signatures. 
Bob Singleton, student manager 
of the south dining hall, com-
Saint Mary's 
to conclude 

72 orientation 
On Tuesday, October 24, 1972 at 7:30p.m. in Carroll Hall, Madel eva Memorial, Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame, -,ye women will discuss the "Role of a Liberal Arts Education" in their lives. Each woman will present her personal, educational, and professional background, to be followed by a question and answer period among the panel, as well as from the audience. 
Ms. Elizabeth Noel, professor of English at Saint Mary's College will introduce the speakers, and act as moderator. 
The five members of the panel will be: Miss Sandra Winicur, Ms. Helen A. Archibald, Mrs. Diane 
R. Holman, Mrs. Eileen Bender, Ms. Jeanne Swartz, 
This program is the conclusion of the 1972 Saint Mary's College Freshman Orientation Program. 
mented on why Mary was swit­ched, "We're getting burned by kids passing their cards around. Last week we decided to do a check on it. We found most of the false cards were coming through her door and the door on the east near Dillon Hall, so we decided to switch her to the east section to find out whether the errors would follow her or whether it was that par­ticular door in the west section that was causing the problem. We switched her back when the 

cheating continued. The petition south dining hall. that of the . political espionage worked at night on the second floor had something to do with it, too." S M• . p .ck tea.m, also d1recte~ by McCord, of the campaign headquarters
Singleton added, "It's not r • 1r1am atr1 which was charged m the June 17 where G. Gordon Liddy, formerMary's or any other checker's • M . break-in at the Democratic 
finance committee counsel also

fault but rather the university's to speak ln ariOn National Committee offices. charged in the bugging case, had
insistence on employing a totally unworkable system 'of checking meal cards. Kids just give the checkers their number. The checkers don't have time to see if the face on the card is the right one." 
Mary Carmola summed up her reactions, "I'm really happy to be back. I felt like I was wanted and needed. I really love these boys, they're the greatest, all of them. They make my work ·enjoyable." 

On Tuesday, October 26, 1972 at 7:00p.m., Sister Miriam Patrick, C.S.C., will speak at Marion High School, Marion, Indiana, in Room 
108. The topic of her lecture is "School Math for the Next Generation: Gleanings from 
Exetor,  England  and  Uganda,  
Africa."  
Sister  Miriam  is  the Chair­ 

woman of the Math Department at Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame. 


Shakespeare marathon held for Sister Marita's School 
by Mary Egan 
Observl'r Staff Reporter 
The Sigma Chapter of Alpha Phi Omega, a national service fraternity at N.D., will hold a 100­hour Shakespeare-reading marathon to benefit Sister M. Marita 's Day School in South Bend. 
The marathon will run from 
12:00 noon this Thursday until 4:00 
p.m. Monday. It will occur in the South Quad between the Law Building and Alumni Hall near the flagpole. A barrel will be there to collect donations. 
"We hope to raise at least $300.00 for the school," said Rick Ullinger, the head coordinator of the marathon. Sister Marita runs her own school for 1st through 3rd graders in the inner city with the help of a few teacher's aides. Donations pay for books, supplies, and all the expenses of the school. 

Volunteers are needed to help in the reading, which will consist of the entire works of Shakespeare. To volunteer or get information, call coordinators Rick Ullinger or Vince Wagner at 1553 or go to 432 Cavanaugh. 
Two years ago a group of in­terested N.D. students held a similar marathon, 97 hours long, to benefit the day school. 
.---------------~~~~~~--~~----­



THE PARTY CANDIDATE. 

From one beer lover to another. 
Tuesday, October 24, 1972 the observer 
Covert security force 
connected with Nixon 
by Patrick Collins and Joseph Volz the committee payroll and was Ic I I!172 Washington Star-News 
paid in advance---{)ften in cash-by McCord, who was Chief SecurityWashington, Oct. 23--An Air Adviser for the Nixon Re-ElectionForce officer who was on active Committee, until being fired afterduty and a retired C.I.A. employe his arrest inside the Domocrats' were members of an undercover Watergate offices. 
security force operating at he The Air Force officer on the
Nixon campaign headquarters 
squad has been identified as Lt.
under the control of Watergate Col. Alfred L. Green, now retired.
bugging suspect James W. 
The ex-CIA employe is WilliamMcCord, it has been learned. 
Shea, who heads the firm whichThe security force apparently took over McCord's operation.
had a different responsibility than Committee sources say the men 
The security squad was not on 
his office. 
,--...,.....-------------------------, 
CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

Desperately need 3 gen. ad­mission TCU tickets. Call Jim 1782. 
Ride needed to N D from Cleveland on Oct. 27. Jim 1809. 
Need ride to O'Hare Friday morning, please. Ken 1343. 
I SEEK JUST ONE gen. ad­mission TCU ticket. Call Paul 6167. 
Ride needed to Kent State October 
27. Call Sue 6958. 
Need ride to Ohio turnpike exit 8 and back weekend of Oct. 27, Marianne 4611. 
Need ride to Cleveland on Friday, Oct. 27th. Call Marybeth 4391. 
Driving to Navy game? II so I need a ride to Philly, New York or vicinity, able to leave Nov. 1, will share expenses, Paul 7861. 
Need 1 ticket for TCU. Student or qenerat admission. Call 8038. 
4 qen. ad. tickets needed tor Miami. Will pay reasonable prices 1796. 
2 qirls need ride to Philadelphia weekend of Nov. 4. Will share expenses. 4635. 
Wanted: garage to rent near campus, Pat 8422. 
Need 4 Miami tickets. Gen. ad­mission, call 232-3542. 
4 Miami, 1 TCU gen. admission 
lix. Call John 8786. 
Need 6 Gen. adm. TCU tickets. Frank 8533, Neal 6766. 
2 student or 3 gen. ·adm. tics needed tor TCU game. Lisa 4556. 
Desperally need tickets tor TCU qame. Please call 3377 now!!! 
Wanted: 4 general admission tix for Miami game. Call 8038. 
Desperately need 4 TCU tickets. Phone 287-6010. 
Need 4 qeneral admission tickets for TCU. Need not be together. Call John 1605. 
FOR SALE 

Genuine woman Italian gloves from Florence tor sale. Fine quality. Call Muffet Fog, 4028. 
Westinqhouse Compact Refrigerators. 4.4 cu. ft. capacity, factory warranty, free delivery. Call Now! Wynnes Refrigeration Co. 234-0578 or 232­2618. Ask for Tom. 
StillsTickets: onfloor,rows4and 
6. Call Neil or Paul, 3232, or 3241. 
Must sell: Dorm-size refrigerator 
2.1 cu. ft. excellent condition. Sacrifice . $45.00. Call 1365 alter 6:30. 
FOR SALE: GOOD TICKETS TO JESl'S CHRIST Sl'PERSTAR AT MORRIS CIVIC TOMORROW NIGHT P.OTH 7:00 AND 9:30 SHOWS. CALL 8253. 
LOST AND FOl1ND 

Lost: aqirl'stimexsilverwatch! Call 8373, reward. 
Found: 1 watch two weeks ago in O'Silag, call Brian 1852. 
Lost, on Saturday, silver­rhinestoned cross, about 112" long. Of great sentimental value. Call 4425. • Found: plastic covered bike chain at SMC, call Rick · 1330. 
Lost: ND Embryology notebook ill SMC. Reward. Call 272-9575. 
Lost. a black switchblade, please call 2164. It is a present form my n1om. 
FOR RENT 

Groovy room for rent. Close to ND; bus; call 289-6581. 
PERSONAL 

Dear Lowell, Your order tor the super-duper, double-punged, triple string is in 111e bookstore. Have a happy birthday. Love WH 177. 
NOTICES 

Small, informal weekend with a unique qroup of American Franciscans dedicated to Christian Unity. Nov. 10-12. Call 1371 or 8814. 
CALIFORNIA CLUB CHRIST­MAS CHARTER SIGNUPS. This Wed. thru Fri. and next Mon. & Tues 1-3pm at the Travel Agency. 
Beaux-Arts ball, November 4, 9:30pm 2:00am, creative attire, band, refreshemnts, tickets $4.00. Everyone welcome. 
Christmas shopping? Try Tup. perware. Home demonstration Tuesday night Oct. 24. Free gifts· 
hring ·friends. 233-5901. 
r./..'cGo~ern only 8 points behind in Miclliqan. Detroit area badly needs.workers tor canvassing and organization. Food and place to stay. provided. Contact Ray Seraftin (ND 1970) 313-729-3550. 
Morrissey Loan Fund. Borrow up lo $150. LaFortune Basement. Open 11:15-12:15 Monday thru Friday. 
HELP t11e helpless unborn, with time, money, ~·r both. Right-to Life, Inc. 233-4295. 
Piano lessons: Call Eddie Sears 232-6882; $5 per hour· $3 per half 110ur. 
THE BOAR'S HEAD Opening in November A young organization with a new concept in dining, featuring a limited steak and lobster menu. We are now completeing con­struction of our building which uses old Englich decor and five fireplaces to add to a warm and elegant atmosphere. ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR cooks, bartenders, waiters, waitresses, cashiers, dishwashers, dining room work. We'll be hiring about 60 full and part time people for our opening crew. An excellent opportunity for a "fun" and in. teresting job tor the school year and summer. Please apply in person at the Boar's Head 31 North-next to Howard Hahn son's Restaurant 9am to 6pm Ask tor Henry or Bill 
---------·---­
Words 1da 2da 3di1 4da 5da 1-10 .65 .95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11-15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21-25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26-30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31-35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36-40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41·45 3.15 4.ro 5.9o 1.1o 8.2o 46-50 3.55 5.• 6.50 7.80 8.95 

-


Tuesday, October 24, 1972

the observer
8 

Keenan loses, Morrissey scared 
by Stan Urankar 
A pair of perennial campus powers were surprised in Sunday afternoon's lnterhall action. -Morrissey, winners of all their regular season games in the last three years, were shocked by Cavanaugh in a scoreless tie and KPenan. 1970 campus runne~s-up, fell from their spot at the top of LPague Three in a 6-Q loss to Stanford. 
l\1orrissf"y U, Cavanaugh 0 
"Cavanaugh played a really great game," commented Marauder coach Ron Salyer after the liO-minute deadlock. "You can't take anything away from them. They were up for us, and they played good football." 
"We (Morrissey> have looked progressively worse in every game this year," Salyer added. "We had a first and goal at their 11, but an offsides penalty and a fumble knocked us right out of scoring position."
Jim Dona I dson:=============================================:=:=:::::::::=====:================::::=:=:::=:=:::=:::: 

The Irish Eye 
==============================================The not over yet
seoson's 
As coach AI Onofrio said to his Missouri Tigers one week ago, it's time to forget about last week and worry about this Saturday's game. The Tigers used the memory of their brutal, 62-Q shellacking at the hands of Nebraska only as an incentive to improve their play and avoid further embarrassment. They didn't let it keep them "down" and they certainly didn't quit. Saturday, it was Mizzou that did the embarassing, surprising the heavily-favored Fighting Irish, 30-26 in Notre Dame Stadium. 
At Notre Dame, where the national championship is the annual goal, a single loss takes on theproportions of a major disaster. After an Irish defeat there's always much wailing and gnashing of teeth lots of old­fashioned, hard core, end-of-the-bar cuss words bandied ab~ut an initial burst of disgust with the football team, accompanied by not a small feeling of betrayal, and the general cry that "the season's over now". All of which is just so much gar-barge, as the French say. 
This football season is far from over. It's precisely halfway finished. Notre Dame still looks to improve on last year's 8-2 record. The Irish are still seeking a return to the top ten in the final rankings, a position they vacated for the first time since 1963last fall. And Notre Dame still has a shot at the national title. That's right, the national title. 
Impossible, you say? Well, improbable -yes. Impossible? No, cer­tainly not impossible, especially with the frequency that major upsets are occuring in college football this season. 
I 
For starters, it should be pointed out that only five major college teams are still unbeaten at the midway mark in the season --Southern California, Alabama, Ohio State, Michigan, and Louisiana State. 
The Irish, of course, wind up their season against the ,currently top­rated Trojans, giving them a golden opportunity to spoil USC hopes for a perfect season, as the Trojans have so often done to Notre Dame. 
Looking at the situation a bit more deeply, the schedule shows that the other four unbeaten clubs play one of the "perfect teams". Ohio State 
t clashes with Michigan in the season finale for both squads and that game will undoubtedly decide the Big Ten title. LSU and Alabama square off in just two weeks, with the winner having a good chance to annex the Southeast Conference chanmpionship. Two more teams have to be eliminated from the ranks of the unbeaten before the season ends. The Irish will have a chance to add Southern California to that list of defeated ball clubs. Which leaves only the win­ners of those big conference battles without a blemish. But the holde~ of the Big Ten crown must face the Pacific Eight titlist, probably USC, m the Rose Bowl and victory there won't be easy. If Alabama beats LSU, and the Crimson Tide looms as slim favorites arch rival Auburn and a top-flight bowl opponent will be waiting in the wi~gs to pin a defeat on "Bear" Bryant's club. LSU plays always tough Mississippi the week before the 'Barna game and, if they win both, the Tigers will still have to get by Florida, Tulane and a bowl opponent to finsh unbeaten. And those two once-beaten powerhouses, Oklahoma and Nebraska still have their ~!l"ual donnybrook coming up in late November, saddli~g, in all probability, one of those teams with its second defeat. There's still plenty of time and many opportunities for a shake-up in the wire service polls. · While all this hoped-for activity is taking place in the upper echelons of the rankings the Irish have but one course of action open to them: to win and win big. It'll take more than a victory over USC to project Notre Dame back into the national championship picture. It'll also take a win over a tough opponent in a major bowl game, and the Irish may not get that opportunity if they don't start pummeling people, fast. Bowl com­mittees will have already extended bids prior to the December 2 meeting between the Trojans and the Irish and, as a result, Notre Dame will have to put together some impressive credentials in the upcoming weeks if they're to nab a prestigious bowl berth. There's no more time to play.. "nice guy". For once, Notre Dame will purposely have to roll up some scores. It's really too early to be talking about bowls but, r~ughly, the January 1lineup could appear this way: Rose -USC and Ohio State-Michigan; Orange -LSU-Alabama versus Nebraska-Oklahoma (unless the Irish look awfully good in the next few weeks~; Sugar-pick two from the losers of the LSU-Alabama and Oklahoma-Nebraska games and toss
... 
Notre Dame's name into the hat; Cottoln-Texas and some team that's out of the championship picture because the national title certainly won't be decided in Dallas this year. The Orange Bowl seems to be the spot where the real action's likely to be at. There, or in the Rose Bowl, which is closed to the Irish anyway. 
Notre Dame's task is far from easy. As stated, it's improbable, but not impossible. So let's see, if Notre Dame beats Texas, Stanford upsets Ohio State and LSU downs Nebraska -oops, wrong year. But you get the picture. 

The tie doesn't hurt the Marauders in the: League Two standings, though. With only a game to play, they still hold a three-point lead over idle Farley. 
Stanford li, Kef"nan 0 
One play spelled the end of this North Quad winning streak. Stanford quarterback George Packer hit Tommy Ryan with a 20­yard touchdown pass on the last play of the first half to cap a 60­yard drive. 
Keenan coach Tom Ewing said, "We just weren't up for the game. Stanford was really psyched to win. and we just didn't go after them." 
Defensive back Pete Diamond picked off a Keenan aerial, and linebackers Rock Bochetti and Joe Totten anchored the winners' defense which has yet to be scored on this season. 
Brf"t•n-Phillips li, Grace U 
Jeff Burda's 25-yard scoring toss to Brian Hickey provided the 


margin of victory in this League treated as mercilessly as any manage only a single yard total 
offense, prompting Stasik to

Three duel. The High Risers other. Freshman Bob Walls ran managed a drive to B-P's 35late in for 65 yards and two touchdowns as rl'mark, ''It's no wonder we score so much. Our defense holds
the final quarter, but time ran out he overtook Morrissey's Paul 
them to three plays and a punt, and 

on their hopes for victory. 
Breen for the top spot in individual we get the ball right back." Senior halfback Dave Klunk scoring. returning to his club's lineup afte~ llnly Cross fi, Alumni 0
Senior Randy Stasik fired a 39­
an injury, ran for 62 yards in 
yard scoring pass to Bill Hoy, and
pacing the B-P attack. The win­
backup man Mike O'Neill likewise
ners now get a chance to throw the Quarterback Mark Anzelon
tallied through the air, connecting 
division lead into a three-way tie tossed a 25-yard touchdown strike 
with fullback Craig Tigh on a 12­
when they take on Stanford next 
to Pat Bathon early in the final
yard touchdown play.

week. 
quarter to keep HC in League One The Dillon defense again shone contention. Sporting a 2-o-1 mark,Dillon :111. Pangborn-Fisher 0 
with tackle Animal Cunningha~ the Cross tangles with Off-Campus blocking a P-F punt out of the end next weekend before facing Dillon The only team to beat the Big in the season finale. 
Red in the last three years was zone for a safety. The losers could 


OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Zahm 7. Lyons o 
Linebacker Mike Murtaugh set up the game's only score by grabbing a Lyons fumble at the losers' 12. Five plays later, halfback Jack Leicht ran in for the score to give Zahm their first triumph of the season. 
Sorin OVf"r Off-Campus 
This win came in the easiest possible way for Doc Carberry's 

Spartan 
by Greg Corgan 

It was a gloomy weekend all around for Notre Dame football teams as the Irish JV's dropped their game to Michigan State 26-14 Friday afternoon. Quarterback Steve Moerdyk provided the of­fensive punch for the Spartans completing touchdown passes of 7; 66, and 16 yards in bringing State their first victory in four starts. Notre Dame's junior varsity record dropped to 1-1 after an opening game win over Michigan. 
The Irish drew first blood by scoring in the initial period on a 19 yd. pass from Rick Slager to sophomore tight end Ed Bauer. The score capped a 57-yard, ten play drive. Bill Arment, a defensive tackle who doubles as a kicker then booted the extra point to make it 7-o. But the Spartans came right with Moerdyk, a sophomore from Grand Rapids, hitting end Bill Klotz with a 7-yd. scoring toss. Dirk Krijt added the extra point and at the end of the first period the score was tied at seven. 
Notre Dame came up with its second touchdown early in the next period. After a Spartan fumble at the MSU 22-yd. line the Irish moved in for the score, and needed just three plays as Russ Kornman scampered 11 yards for the touch­down. The freshman running back from Wauwatosa, Wisconsin picked up 105 yards in 16 tries and a touchdown for the afternoon to lead all Irish rushers. Arment again added the extra point to make the score 14-7. Michigan State evened the score at 14 as Moerdyk connected on hi second touchdown pass of the afternoon­this one a 66 yarder to halfback Dane Fortney. Krijt kicked his second of three extra points as the team, by forfeit. 
• I

JV S top Irish, 26-14 
gun sounded ending the first half. touchdowns. His counterpart, Neither team could mount much 
Rick Slager, was 7 of 13 for 70 of an offensive drive in the third 
yards and one touchdown. quarter but the Spartans came 
This Friday afternoon the Irish 

away with 3 points on Krijt's 26-junior varsity will tangle with the yard field goal. Taking a 17-14lead University of Michigan on the into the fourth quarter M.S.U. got Astro-turf at Cartier Field. on the scoreboard again as Rllill~ 
NOTilE DAME 

Moerdyk hit end Brandon Barber 
ATT NET TD

wih a 16 yd. scoring strike. Krijt 
komman ..... 16 105 I made it three for three in extra Parise 
points and State was up by ten, 24­
10 62 0 Uneham . . . 6 24 0

14. The Notre Dame offense, which 
Slager .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. . 2 -0 o couldn't seem to get moving in the Bake 
4 12 0

second half, stalled again and the 
Trosko . . . . . . .. . 2 -6 0

Irish were tagged with a safety as Pallllq time ran out in the ball game. NOTilEDAME Steve Moerdyk finished the PA PC PI YDS TD 
00 00 00 00 .. 0
Slager 00 13 7 z 70 1

afternoon with 10 completions in 22 
Tl'lllllo .. oo 521170
........ 

attempts for a 164 yards and-three 
Harriers routed by ISU 
by John Wick 

A powerful Indiana State squad trounced the Irish harriers 17-49 in a dual meet held last Friday o~ their home course at Terre Haute, Ind. 
Steve Hienderich of ISU breezed through the five mile course in the record-breaking time of 25:09 to claim individual honors. This was the fourth consecutive meet this season in which Hienderich has shattered his own previously-set course record. 
Both teams kept together in a close pack over the first few miles but the Sycamores, having the advantage of running on their home course, suddenly picked up the pace and left the surprised Irish behind to struggle over the long hills, which were constantly a 
hindrance  to  the  Notre Dame  
harriers.  
Notre  Dame's  Dan  Dunne  

grabbed second place but Indiana 
managed to put five men between Dunne and 8th place finisher Marty Hill to capture six of the top seven spots. Other finishers for the Irish included steadily improving sophomore Mike Housely, Mike Gahagan and Jeff Eichner. 
This weekend the Irish will again face tough competition when they travel to Lafayette, Ind. for the Indiana State Meet. Top con­tention will come from Ball State University, Indiana State University, and Notre Dame. The Ball State squad captured second place out of the thirty colleges and universities that participated in the recent Notre Dame In­vitational. The Cardinals were anchored by the third place finish of Steve Wyden, who will contend for individual honors in Friday's ~~et. Other Invitational par­ticipants scheduled to appear in the State meet will include Butler, Taylor, Purdue and Indiana Universities. 





