On The Inside 
Masters and Johnson preview ... page 4 Shoplifting: what it's become ... page 7 



serving the notre dame -st. mary's community
Vol. VII No. 31 Friday, October 20, 1972 
• 


Only two changes 

Student govt budget passed 
by Pete McHugh Staff Reporter  
After four and a half hours of hearings deliberation, the Board of Commissioners Student Government put the final touches Student government budget late last night.  of on  and the the  

The final form of the budget remains largely un­changed from its original version first offered by the Finance Committee two weeks ago. The only changes involve the appropriations to the Hall President's Council, the New Frontier Scholastic Society and U jamma, the black student society. 
$5,100 was appropriated the Hall life Fund for hall improvements. This is $750 more than the original appropriation. And it will be administered by a special sub-committee of the Board of Commissioners. 
The budgets of Ujamma and the new frontier Scholatic Society were separated at their request. Ujamma will receive $2,500 and the New Frontier Scholastic Society was allotted $400. 
Elsewhere, the funds for An Toastal were given to the Hall President's Council to administer, instead of directly to the hall as previously suggested. These funds were reduced from the original suggestion of $3,250 to $2,000 largely because the cost of a free con­cert was transfered to the Social Commission. 
Two Groups Split 
The New Frontier Scholastic Society and the Hall President's Council raised objections to the Student Government Financieal Committee's budget reCommendations last night at a meeting of the Board of Commissioners. The Board of Commissioners consists of the S~udent Life Council, HPC President Butch Ward, and Student Government Vice-president Dennis Etienne. 
The New Frontier Scholatic Society, seeking recognition as an academic organization not connected with the Society of Ujamma, asked for separate fun­ding. Ray turner, spokesman for the New Frontier Scholatic Society, said "It seems as if the Student 

Board of Commissioners: listened to club gripes for over four hours anJi finally passed a basically unchanged budget 
government wants one black organization on cam­
pus." 
Citing the presence of some whites at their last meeting, Turner stated, "We don't represent the black community." The society asked for moneY. for guest speakers and for other community services. "Because .we are a separate organization, we 'expect to be funded 
separately," Turner said. 
Mike Marget, Student Government Treasurer and a member of the Finance Committee, responed to Turner's accusations by referring to his committee's decision. He said that the committee felt that Ujamma and the New Frontier Scholastic Society essentially provide the same service to the campus community. 
The Board decided they did not. 
Ujamma responds 
The Society of Ujamrna also complained about the budget recommendations. Bob McCready and Michael Crittenden, representing Ujamma, called for more money to pay for the many speakers they plan to present. Among these speakers are Angela Davis, Sonia Sanchez, and Julian Bond. 
In regard to charges that Ujamma exercises black racism, McCready said the purpose of the club was to "create unity between both black and white students." He stressed, however, that there is a need to "provide 

some  kind  of  social  atmosphere  for  the  black  
students."  some failed  

HPC Executive Coordinator Steve Jeselnick presented a plan to issue all money allocated to halls throueh the HPC. His proposal called for a 
sizeable increase in the Finance Committee's allocation. 
Several groups failed to change the budget from its origainal form. Most sought either more money than allotted or sought funds that were originally refused entirely. 
The Rowing Club, which has not been the recipient of Student Government funds in past years, asked for $680 to buy new oars. Since it is a club sport, rowing recieves no funds from the athletic department. The Board stood by the Finance Committee's decision not to fund sports. 
The Flying Irish, an organization for pilots and aviation enthusiasts, failed to receive an allocation to get off the ground. The Flying Irish meed money for an airplane, which the group says will "pay for itself" within the next two years. The Board decided against it. 
Other groups also failed to change the original budget decisions of several other student organizations. These included the Arnold Air Society, the International Students Association, the Glee Club and the International Student Leadership Institute. 
Seymour and Welte at the halfway point: Many innovations~ more in planning stage 

By Mary Janca Staff Reporter 

Jean Seymour and Sue Welte, recently completed six months of their terms as Student Body Officers at Saint Mary's . In that time they developed and are actively engaged in the passage of three issues of their campaign: 24­hour open lobbies in the halls, extention of male visitation, and the opening of the new Student Center. 
Since corning into office, pointed out Sue Welte, Vice President of the Student Body, many innovations have been initiated. Among them,. she explained, are student representation on the Board of Regents, the formulation of a Student Center, the proposal of extended male visitation, and the establishment of the Hall Life Commission. 
"Student Government is trying to re-orient the students of St. Mary's to this campus, andre-instill pride on the school," stated Julaine Brophy, Community Relations Commissioner. 
"The Hall Life Commission," said Mitzi Tracy, Hall Life Commissioner. "is a new committee, created by Jean Seymour and Sue Welte, to open communication between the halls and to know what's going on in the other dorms. It's a way of coordinating things, and getting together with other halls.'' Composed of Tracy, the four hall presidents, and two representatives from each Hall Council, the Committee has no legislative power or authority, but serves as a line of communication between the halls. 
Much of the Student Government, explained Welte, is now involved with the Planning Process. 
The question of 24-hour open lobbies has thus far met with unanimous approval, informed Welte, and will be brought up before the Student Affairs Council on Wednesday, Oct. 25. 
Regarding the extended male visitation proposal, Tracy said that much more research is required before it can be presented to the Board of Regents in January, because, as she said, "We haven't even begun to scratch the surface." 
A survey on parietals is being drawn up, to be distributed in three to four weeks. All SMC students, faculty, ad­ministration and a random sampling of parents and alumnae will be questioned as to their views on this subject. This will be done, said Welte, "so all segments may be considered in drawing up proposals." Student Government and the Hall Life Council plan to utilize these surveys to draw up an ex­perimental policy on visitation. • 
Jean Seymour, Student Body President, is also working for Acedemic reform. In her campaign, she sought revision of the Pass-Fail rulings, asking that eight courses by taken on a Pass-Fail basis within four years, and that Pass-Fail grades be given in required courses. Seymour also called for an optional, independent study between terms. 
Through the Planning Process, ideas for acedemic change are now being gathered from schools which are about the same size as St. Mary's, stated Natalie Dwyer, a member of the Task Force studying academic revision. Many students are apathetic and uninformed as to the activities of Student Government, while some responded enthusiastically to the work done. 
When asked how they viewed the achievements of Seymour and Welte thus far, most Seniors reacted favorably and optimistically. · . 
Juniors and Sophomores, generally, were apathetic and replied ·hat they did not honestly know. Said one typical 
student "I don't feel qualified to answer that.  All I know is  
what I read sometimes in Tht' Obst>rver."  
One  Junior  stated  "I'm  disapomted  that  they  aren't  

working more closely with Notre Dame,'' while another suggested that "the Student Body President and Vice President should get more in touch with the student body." 
Freshmen, basically, felt that they didn't know enough about Student Government, and had no opinion on the sub­ject. 
"We can't .accomplish everything overnight. It takes time," stated Welte. She also said, regarding student voice, that "every student here has input directly, either through us or the Planning Process, and one doesn't negate the other in any way." 
"In order for the school to function successfully," con­cluded Welte, "each one of us must feel like a member of a community and demonstrate this through whatever we do.'' 

the observer Friday, Odober 20, 1972 
warld briefs 
(c) 1972 New York Times 
Saigon --As President Thieu, Henry A. Kissinger and Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker spent a total of five hours in two separate con­ferences Thursday, there was a fresh burst of speculation in Saigon that Kissinger and North Vietnamese negotiators might have arrived at some sort of cease-fire agreement that might be unattractive to the Saigon Government. There was no official comment on the talks. 
Saigon -As North Vietnamese forces near Saigon reoccupied at least two hamlets and held on to half a dozen others, an apparent change in tactics has led many South Vie~amese to conclude ~at the Communists are preparing for a ceasef1re. That s~ulation _has arisen because the Communists appear to be carrymg out htUe political activity, while concentrating on holding their positions. 
Washington --A former official of the Central Intelligence Agency said that the Air Force mistakenly bombed a North Vietnamese Leper Colony in 1966 after concluding from aerial photographs that t!Ie compound was a North Vietnamese Division Headquarters. The m­cident was described in a new book by the former agent, who also charged that intelligence specialists were overwhelmingly concerned with providing what he called "intelligence to please." 
New York--A Bronx congressman and a State Supreme Court Justice who preceded him in the House have been questioned by Federal officials in connection with alleged abuses involving private immigration bills. Rep. Mario Biaggi and Justice Paul A. Fino both confirmed that a Manhattan Grand Jury had asked them last year about the heavy volume of bills they sponsored, including bills on behalf of illegal aliens and about payoffs to lawyers and congressmen. 
an c.ampu• tllday· 
friday 

12:00 a .. m. ·-meeting, graduate studenhmion, 127 nieuwland science hall 
8:00 
p.m. --concert, henry mancini, ace 

8:00 
--movie, splendor in the grass, zagran's zinema west, flanner hall 

8:00 
.. modern dance, danny chambliss, little theatre, 


moreau hall, smc 8& 10 .. movie, genesis 5, engineering auditorium, $1.00 
9:00 ·-dance, boogie chil'un, smc snack bar under the dining hall, 25 cents 
saturday 

1:30 p.m. --football, notre dame vs. missouri, notre dame 
stadium  
8:00  ·­ modern  dance,  danny  chambliss,  little  theatre,  
moreau hall, smc  
8:00  -­ folk concert, america, flanner  basem ent  
8 &  10  -­ movie, guess wo's coming  to dinner?,  lakeside  
theatre, holy cross hall, nd  

8 & 10 -· movi~, genesis s, engineering auditorium, $1.00 
9:00 .. dance, featuring the promenade, regina north lobby, 75 cents 
sunday 

7:00p.m. --modern dance, danny chambliss, little theatre, moreau hall, smc 
7:00 ·-meeting, women's caucus, library auditorium 
8 & 10 --movie, charlie chaplin in the gold rush, engineering auditorium, $1.00, cac patrons free 
Campus roundup In the heart­
of downtown 
South Bend



SMC music board formed 


In a continuing effort to more directly involve the faculty and students in policy-making decision, a Music Advisory Committee has been created at Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame. 
The committee will consist of four Saint Mary's College music faculty . members and two music students. . The faculty members were appointed by Music Department Chairman, Dr. James McCray. The four named are: Michael Hennessey, assistant professor, Arthur ·Lawrence, assistant professor, Susan Stevens, in­structor, Ronald Morebello, in­structor. 
The student members, one upper level and one lower level, were elected by the music majors of the College. They are Aimee Beck­mann, sophomore, of Ankeny, Iowa, and Patricia Bingham, senior, of Seminole, Florida. 
Discount ID's offered 
The Student Union office an­nounced yesterday that Notre Dame students and faculty are now eligible for special weekend and vacation rates at any Sheraton Hotel or Motor Inn. To be eligible, students must pick up iden­tification cards from the Union office; faculty members should contact Fr. James Shilts, Assistant Vice-President for Student Affairs. 
Special rates, subject to room availability at the time of reser­vation, are in effect from the Wednesday prededing Thanksgiving through the following Sunday, December 15 through January 1, and weekend evenings throughout the year. 
The Student Union office will distribute cards each school day from 1 pm to 5 pm. 
Musical shows set 
Three major musical programs 
have been scheduled by the Notre 
Dame's Art Department for guests 
attending sessions of the Mid­
America College Art Association 
conference on the campus next 
month. 
The Elkhart Symphony Chorus, 
with John Lund directing, will 
present the Haydn Mass at 8p.m. 
November 1 in Sacred Heart 
Church. Also known as Missa 
Solemnis in D Minor, the music 
was written in 1798 and proclaimed 
the exalted .religous spirit of the 
times. 
A group from Northern Illinois 
University will present a concert of 
sound and visual elements on the 
electric stereoptican at 8 p.m. 
November 2 in Washington Hall. 
Original music and visual 
compositions by Dan Goode, a 
composer and faculty member at 
Livingston College of Rutgers 
University, will be presented at 8 
p.m. Friday, November 3. Local 
S H u L A 'S 
H 
u 
L A 
s 
GOOD AFTERNOON 


SHULA'S 
H 
is celebrating NO's win over Missouri early. Do it with two 
u
great bands, bar, whatever. It's time to get syched for the game 


L 
«~ v~Vlte C/u/, 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
A 
Phone-683-43SO 
H u L A 'S 

GOOD-FOOD AT MO EST PRICES 
musicians and dancers will be 
·Steaks ·Chops ·ChickeA ·Sea Food
trained by Goode for this special 

Qu e·t atmosphere -pleasant
performance in the Fieldhouse. Several hundred delagates are 
surroundings

expected to attend the conference, the largest of its kind in the nation. It is the first time it has been held 
CLOSED 

on the Notre Dame campus. An 

MONDAYS 

exhibition of the more noteworthy works from the Notre Dame 
Daily & Sunday permanent collection of art is in 
11 am till 9 pm progress now in the 
Saturday O'Shaughnessy Hall Gallery in 
11 am till 10 pm advance of the conference. 

Engineering Aud. Oct. 20-21 8+10pm Admission $1.00 


Friday, October 20, 1972 Page 3 
Nixon taking the high schools by ten percent: poll 
by John Mathews <c) 1972 Washington Star-News. 

Washington. Oct. 19---A recent poll of some 23,000 high school student leaders across the country shows 47 per cent of the young people favoring President Nixon and 37 per cent support Sen. George S. McGovern-the exact opposite of a similar poll conducted a year ago. 
Questions in the poll, conducted this summer do not clearly define reasons for the dramatic shift in s~ntiment, al~hough the students appear to be strongly impressed by Nixon's trip to China and the Soviet Union. 
But, the students are less enthused with the President's handling of the Vietnam war; only 15 per cent rating it as "excellent," 41 per cent as "satisfactory" and 39 per cent as "unsatisfactory," while 5 per cent were undecided. 
The students polled still feel that ending the war and establishing peace are the nation's first priority, followed by protection of the environment and an end to inflation and unemployment. Their view of how to end the war, however, has changed somewhat. 
Last year, 44 per cent favored immediate withdrawal of all 
U.S. troops from Southeast Asia, but this year only 35 per cent take the view. On the other end of favored policies, 11 per cent say they want total military victory, compared to 6 per cent last year. Gradual troop withdrawal is supported by 52 per cent, six percentage points more than last year. 
The poll conducted by the publishers of "Who's Who Among American High School Students" in Northfield, Ill., does not purport to be a scientifically weighted national sample. Some 40 per cent of the students polled, for example, are from midwestern states and 42 per cent are suburbanites, both figures unrepresentative of national percentages. 
The students polled come from a larger group of 105 000 st~dent leaders selected by their school for the "Who's who" High School b~k. Generally, they are among the best students academically, 96 per cent going on to college and 90 per cent having "B" or better averages. 
Cleveland. Oct. 19 ---Some nights it doesn't seem to pay to put on a telethon. Sen. George McGovern has adopted a new campaign tactic of taking his case to voters in the big states by way of telethons. Last night he had hardly settled himself before the cameras when a man called in 


And meanwhile
and demanded: "How soon can I expect my $1,000 check?" Then there was the fellow who got into an exchange with the Democratic candidate about 
MeG's telethons the opposition
how many times he had changed his mind about 
one thing and another. 

And there were . zingers about things like amnesty, abortion, marijuana, pulling out of Vietnam and school busing. 

gets heckled
't t b 

McGovern's advisers professed to be happy
don seem 0 e about the whole thing because it gave the can­didate a chance to answer charges that he is a By Duncan Spencerradical. 
(C) 1972 Washington Star-News 
They also said it showed he wasn't afraid to 
Green Bay, Wis., Oct. 19 ---Vice President


k• 11 

come out before the voters while President 
Nixon hides in the White House. Spiro T. Agnew was rounding into the com­
fortable topics of professional football and the
Wor lng So We But to those gathered around the television set in McGovern's press room here, it appeared the "American competitive spirit" here last ni~ht when a hidden voice in the friendly crowd wailed 
by Paul Hope candidate was still coming across as being "Murderer." 
<(') 1!172 Washington Star-News defensive about the issues that have been And in Grand Rapids, Michigan, in his first
. bothering hi!TI throughout the campaign. The questiOns could have come straight out of the White House Political Ready foray onto a college campus during this cam­
Room. paign, he was heckled furiously and ineffectiv~ly by students who shouted, "You're a liar," or
McGovern h.ad a little trou~le with the telephone equipment and at one point he 
simply, "War."
asked the audience to be patient because "We're not as good at electronics as the 
Republicans are." Agnew is still the man who brings out the strong emotions, the one they love to hate in this 
.Th~ ~alf-hour telethon beamed last night to major Ohio cities and two cities in West lukewarm campaign.
V1rgm1a ~as th~ sec.ond of 10 planned during the final weeks of the campaign. Last week he d1d one m Mmnesota, Monday he'll do one in New York and others will follow But he is well pleased with his hecklers. "I'm in Wisconsin, California, the state of Washington, Pennsylva~ia Illinois Michigan delighted with that response," he said while 
and in Boston for Northeast states. ' ' returning to Washington from Green Bay last­night. "I'm not going to accommodate a
They will be followed by the grand-daddy of them all--a nationwide telethon on 
election eve. . disruption except when it suits my purposes.'' There was no disruption of either of the Vice
~o~ard ~etzenbaum, a .major financial contributor and an active supporter from 
President's precisely planned stops yesterday,OhiO, IS puttmg the state-widetelethons together. He said the 10 will cost about $150,000 only a few voices in the crowd, a few signs which but he expects to recover the cost and perhaps more through appeals during the 
broadcasts. said "Impeach Nixon", "End the War", or "Eat some S--t." But on each occasion Agnew made
The man who wanted to know when he could get his $1 000 check touched an exposed 
nerve in the McGovern camp. ' strong reference to the "discourtesy" or the "lack of civility" of a small proportion of his
"I'd like to be able to give everybody $1,000," McGovern replied. "That was a 
listeners.

proposal by some of my economic advisers ... but we've moved away from that plan. 
Later in the plane, Agnew made it clear he wasThe man who accused McGovern of changing his mind on issues also touched home. 
not hoping to silence his detractors by chastisingPublic opinion polls indicate that many voters believe McGovern is not consistent. 
them in public. He found them sometimes useful, The man, who identified himself as Todd Harshman of Shaker Heights said he said. "You have the power to over-rideMcGovern had changed his mind about amnesty, drugs and tax reform and ~sked, them," he mused, "but sometimes it's to your"How do we know what you really want?" 
advantage to engage that kind of anti­McGo~el"? said he hadn't chang~ his mind about any of those things, but Har­intellectualism ... This is the antithesis of in­shman msisted that Sargent Shriver told a Cleveland audience recently that tellectualism, to scream and yell rather thanMcGovern now was for "partial amnesty" rather than total amnesty. 
listening to opinions you don't agree with." 

the observer Friday, October 20, 1972 
Masters and Johnson preview 

Hum~n sexuality: myths and truth 
Masters and Johnson in Capsule by Gerald Giantonio 
Curiosity about human sexuality seems ingrained in the American way of life; but in spite of this, knowledge in the area has been primarily in the realm of folklore. Probably more than any person (or persons) interested in an objective assessment of the nature of sex. William Masters and Virginia Johnson have made the scientific study of n sexuality an honorable pursuit. Beginning in the 1950's, they instituuted a comprehensive study ofthe human sexual response by bringing their 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
For LSAT saturday 
Test center changed 
Notre Dame students who were assigned to a test center other than the one at Notre Dame for the October 21 administration of the Law School Admission Test may report to the Engineering Auditoriqm, Notre Dame, at 8:30 
a.m. on Saturday, October 21 for the administration of the LSAT. 
11111111111111110111111 Ullllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 
Dr. Kissinger meets Thieu 

subjects into their laboratories and measuring the physiological and physical correlated of sexual arousal. Their book, Human Sexual Response (1966), which reported over 10 years of research, exploded many myths about human sexuality ranging across such topics as geriatric sea and vaginal versus clitoral orgasm. The impact of this booka and the continuing avid interest in Master's and Johnson's later work testifies to our society's desire to better understand human sexuality. 
In 1970, Human Sexual Inadequacy was published. This work dealt with the clinical applications of the data collected in their physiological research. While the treatment of sexual inadequacy (e.g., premature ejaculation, frigidity, impotence) has been of therapeutic concern for decades, Master's and Johnson's techiques differed from most others in two basic respects: the short duration, intensive therapy (2 weekd) snf relatively high degrees of success for most inadequacies. 
SEX AND MYTH by Rev. Thomas McNally, C.S.C. 
"People are surprised that we don't have two heads." 
Mrs. Virginia Johnson, the feminine half of the sex research team of Masters and Johnson, made the comment wistfully once as she surveyed an audience roughly similar to the one which probaably will gather next Monday night at Washington Hall. 
And it's true that she and Dr. William Masters have picked up their share of scars, as will as medals, in the sexual areana. As probably everybody knows by now they have piloted a sex research project in St. Louis which has produced a staggering amount of physiological data and a fair-to-staggering amount of controversy about their results and methods. They get more than their share of 
Saigon, Oct. 19--South Vietnamese President 

pornographic hate mail-sadly misaddressed because both are compassionate persons who are said to be less concerned about the mechanics of sex than about the human tragedies which result from distorted ideas about sex. 
However, their approach to the subject cannot possibly touch all the sexual bases. (The talk Monday night is entitled "Facts and Fallacies about Human Sexual Response.") In two articles I would like to suggest a Christian orientation to the subject of sexuality be reviewing a recent book by Eugene Kennedy. (<The New Sexuality. Myths, Fables,and Hang-ups. Doubleday & Company, Inc. 1972 Available in the bookstore.) Kennedy, a priest-psychologist, is well respected in his field and frankly favorable to Masters and Johnson, whom he mentions se.veral times in his book. 
Kennedy spends most of his time and pages writing about myths which men use to keep their world in focus and avoid raising too many disturbing questions. The myths in question concern sexuality and Kennedy explodes them in a series of chapters which I will highlight in this segment and the second article in the series. 
THE MYTH THAT SEX WAS JUST DISCOVERED: The secret of sex, he says, has been out a long time. "Our civilization would be better off if we could rid ourselves of the minor conceit which claims that finally we know everything we have ever wanted to know about sex, when actually we are still working at it." 
Is there a revolution taking place in sexual behavior? Kennedy quotes research which casts a doubt on any such theory. These researchers were unable to establish, for example, the existence of four criteria which they considered necessary for the existence 
(continued on page 10) 
BEAUTY PAGEANT 

Michiana Snow Show 
Dec 8, 9, 10 A.C.C. 
All women, 18 years old or older, who are residents of In­diana or Michigan, or who are college students in that area are eligible to enter. There will be an initial interview granted to all applicants, at which time the pageant rules, prizes, and judging will be discussed. Interested applicants should send their name, address, telephone num­ber, and date of birth to: 
MICHIANA PRODUCTIONS & EXHIBITIONS, INC. P.O. BOX 3573 SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 46628 
..R.iVER. PA~Rff 
... . . . . . ... . .... . . .. 
-~ 
MIIMAWAICW·· "' JOTM. 
IE Z 
STARTS FRIDAY! BRILLIANT! SENSUAL! DEADLY! 


SPILLS! SPEED! THRILLS! 


''ON ANY SUNDAY'' 
Nguyen Van Thieu twice held secret talks with Dr. Henry A. Kissinger today, and the South Vietnamese government publicly reasserted its determination not to be pressured into an arranged soalition with the communists. 
A basic element of communist peace plans has been the establishment of a coalition government that would give them a share of power in Saigon. The coalition then would arrange elections. 
But a government announcement, issued at the time fo the initial 3-1.6 hours of talks between 15 top South Vietnamese and American officials, insisted that the South Vietnamese people would have to be asked to agree to the establishment of any coalition "through democratic mean," apparently meaning elections under thieu 's control 
The implication of the announcement was that Thieu would not allow the United State to talk him into any peace-plan arrallgement which he feared might open the door to a communist take-over. 
After the lengthy morning session with Thieu Kissinger had lunch with U.S. Ambassador Ellsworth Bunker; then the two returned in the afternoon for another meeting with Thieu. 
There was no word, either official or unofficial on what was said. ' 
The Thieu-Kissinger talks were officially described in advance as dealing with the current situation and the Developments in the Paris peace talks with Hanoi. 
• 

When it's a question of good eating, anytime is cram time here. Come on ...It's FUNFOR U! CHOPPED SIRLOIN STEAK BAKED POT A TO • TOSSED SALAD HOT BUTTERED ROLL 
$1.49 






PONDIBOSA 
STEAl BOUSE 

52627 U.S. 31 N. ond To.wR & Couah"y Shopping Ctr. 
~ Open 11 A.M. to 9 P.M. Dally. Fri. and.SIIl to 10 P.M. _a 
-~-----.....--~­
Dr. Grabow 

4-piece musical band 
St. Mary's Snack Bar Friday, October 20th 9-1 Dancing and Refreshments admission 25q: 
Pay next year... 
pay one third in January, one third in February, one third in March. 
No service of carrying charges added. 

Friday, O<:tober 20, 1972 
the observer 

Wills explains the 'sellout' 

by Cavid Rust Staff Reporter 

Gary Wills explained to a crowd of about 125 last night in the library auditorium how a president's "sell-out" after election was not actually a sell-out but "copensatory redoubling." 
Met by frequent bursts of laughter at his train of paradox after shrewd insight, Wills, scholar, professor and author of several books including 1970's 
Nixon Agenistes, expressed his disbelief in the honesty or worth of either Richard Nixon or George McGovern and explained his four points to understanding the American political process in a lecture entitled "The Loss of the American Tradition." 
But why not? 
Wills: "Why should politicians be so bad? The better question is, why 
shouldn't they?" 

Witch trials common 
Brought to Notre Dame by the Academic Commission, Wills' most recent accomplishments have included the publication of his book Barl" Ruined Choirs, an ar­ticle "Chic Imprisonment," about his arrest at the "Celebrity Demonstration" of earlier this year in the current issue of Playboy magazine, and his earlier lecture on witches and Shakespeare delivered earlier in the day at Notre Dame (see story below). He touched on none of these during his two-hour lecture. 
"Why should politicians be so bad?" asked Wills. "The better question is, why shouldn't they?" 
The reason, he divined, was contained in his "four inhibitions" acting on men who live the political life: "the out-middling strategy, governability after election,compensatory redoublin6 ~ (the sell­out) and the continuity factor." 
Each politician begins with his assured constituency, analysed lecturer Wills, and spends his campaign trying for the "middle people." "The way to do this," he said, "is to try to figure out what all those middle people want, and then to rush out and deliver it to them." 
The result, he concluded, is that at the end of the election, "you can't tell one's statem~nts from the other withouut their being labeled." He presented evidence: McGovern's law-and-order pledges in Brooklyn, Mison's welfare reform and peace wishes. 
"Actual campaigning becomes a kind of dance with partners nod­ding to each other and breaking in" in their vying for the middle people's alliance, said Wills. 
In their struggle to get the votes of middle grounders, issues come and go with surprising facility. 
The Vietnam War, against which Wills expressed strong opposition, has been used with that kind of facility. 
"In 1964 President Johnson pretended the war wasn't there," said Will, "whereas Goldwater got clobbered" because he "told the truth a bout it." In 1968 "no one would talk" about their plans for it too seriouly because they were all afraid of "disturbing the peace plans" supposedly circulating between Washington and Hanoi. 
And in  1970,  said  Wills,  "Nixon  
killed the war issue."  
There  is  remarkable  "bland­ 

ness" during election time,
espeareremark~ Wills, .in the midst of the


Wills reviews shak 
"muddlmg of tssues" and the 
by Ann-Therese Darin 
Campus Editor 
Trials for witches were more common than trials for homicides in Shakespearean England, claimed Gary Wills, nationally syndicated columnist and lecturer yesterday at Notre Dame. 
Although the thirty-two year old journalist is noted for his political commentary, especially his best­selling Nixon Agonistes, he is a trained classicist with graduate degrees from Xavier and Yale Universities. 
Speaking to a library auditorium audience of twenty-five students, Wills previewed material on witch­craft in Shakespeare's plays for a book which he plans to publish soon. He illustrated the sixty­minute lecture and question period 

8,551 ND students 

with several slides of woodcuts depicting witches dating from the early 1600s. He also based a considerable amount of his af­ternoon lecture on a seventeenth century chronicle of witchcraft titled, "News from Scotland." 
In slow, measured words, the classicist explained the popular practice of witchcraft during the Bard's era. Any old women, usually hags, with moles, or other eccentricities, could be suspected of black magic. "Kings used to kill a lot of witches," Wills recounted, "to prove that they were God's annointed." 
Enumerating many charac­teristics of witches (love of can­dies, brews, warts, moles, animals addressed in affectionate terms, broomsticks, and a tendency 

Semester enrollment 
, 

up from last year 
Final enrollment figures for the 
1972 fall semester at the Notre 
Dame and six overseas programs 
indicate a total of 8,557 students, an 
increase over last year's record 
8,237. The figure includes 6,772 in 
undergraduate colleges and the 
Freshman Year of Studies 
program, and 1,825 in Law School 
and_ other graduate programs. 
Increases were noted in all the undergraduate colleges with the largest enrollment spurt reported by the College of Business Ad­ministration, 1,161 compared to last year's 976. Arts and Letters enrollment is 2,267, up from last year's 2,255, Science gained 100 to _stand at 923, and Engineering is 757, an increase of seven. Only Freshman Year showed a light 

decrease, 1,614 compared to last 
year's 1,635. 
Law School enrollment dropped from 499 to 468, graduate programs increased from 1,142 to 1,202, and the master's program in Business Administration went from 157 to 
165. The Law School enrollment includes 59 women compared to last year's 37, and 20 student in the second year program conducted in London. There are 14 part-time students oflaw this year, compared to four last year. 
Enrolled on the overseas campuses this year are 224 Notre Dame students, and increase of 52 over the 1971 figure of 172. These include 59 at Innsbruck; 47 at Angers, 17 in Mexico City, 18 in Sophia, Japan, and 57 in Rome. 



Sou'th Bend's Newest SPORT SHOP 

THE SRORT 


-

~E, JIC.
•

2314 South Bend Ave .._,._ 212-9171 
toward illiteracy and old age), Wills cited their use in Shakespearean drama. He named as representative witches in the Bard's plays Macbeth, Lady Macbeth, Richard III, Cleopatra, Puck, and Othello. 
While witchcraft was not limited to women, Wills deduced that female witches were more com­mon than male witches in the 
· seventeenth century. King James in his "Demonology" remarked that witche& were commonly women because women are the weaker sex, Wills related. The journalist added that King James felt that the evil spirits could more easily control women than men. 
Wills also emphasized the significance of the candle as as sign of witchcraft. "The candle," he asserted, "Was her most clear mark." According to the classicist, a witch was considered the devil's acolyte. Since the acolyte at a white mass was a man, the acolyte at a black mass would "putting off of decisions" that take 
the wace of the "national debate and clarification of the issues" that Americans believe an election is all about. 
What assures a candidate's governablilty after election? Wills contended that it is basically two things: the fact that in the United States "men stand by an election and abide by it," and that people "won't let him rule the way he wants." 
The out-middling, evil as it might seem, is advantageous in Wills' view in that it is the thing that gives the candidate-become­president his "acceptability and creditability" needed to have good governablility. The two reinforce each other, as Wills explains it. 
Then there is the sell out, or compensatory redoubling. " 'God knows what Nixon will do in a second term,' " quoted Wills of Nixon's original constituency, after Nixon's "sell-out" to the communists in Peking and Moscow, and to the causes of a 
.,
-· 
n 
;1\ 
c 
-c n 
0 
CD 
n 
-+
-· 
0 
::J (J)
n 
::J 
0 ...... c 
en 
-+ 
0 () -CD
.... < 
0 
0 ­
CD
.., 
n 
-+
r­



0 .... I 
-n ..,
0
.., 0 -+ :r 
-+ 
::r CD
c 
CD
::J 
CD 
~ 
(J') 0
..,
0 -+ n () c ::r
.., 


a. 0
.... :r 
0 
"< c-· 
-· 
0 CD
.., 3 3 a.. 
en
::J -,
-· 
::J CD
(0 
0
.... 
CD -+ ::J 
.., 
...... 0
• 


ROBERT STIGWOOD & MCA, INC. presents THE NATIONAL COMPANY CONCURRENTLY PLAYING TO CAPACITY BUSINESS IN NEW YORK 

INCWDING FULL ORCHESTRA AND CHOJI 
"'JESUS CHRIST SUPERSTAR' IS A TRIUMPH!'' 
-Douglas Watt, N.Y. Daily News 
TICKETS ON SALE NOW 
at Auditorium Box-Office 
Dally llam to 5 pm 
CALL 232-695-4 
for information 

MORRIS CIVIC AUDITORIUM WED. OCT. 25tlt 
2 SHOWS -7 & 9:30 P.M. 
PIICES: SUO $5.50 SUO 
ALL SEATS RESERVm 
• 




~--------------------------------------~~--~-----------­


Crasslakes




THE OBSERUER 
Just like the 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
good old days 
News: 283-1715 Editorials printed in The Observer reflect the opinion of the writer, Editorial: 213-8661 on behalf of the editorial board. Columns reflect the opinion of the 
;a•ephabell
Business: Hl-1""' individual writer; they are not to be taken as editorial comment. 
Friday, October 20, 1972 
Remember the good ol' days back in high school when a sudden ringing of class bells in the middle of class was a time of great reioicing? Why? Because it meant that today's religion lesson or Henry VIII chaper would be postponed in favor of a little walk around the school. In other words, the Fire Department was running one of their little goodies again, and everybody gets a break. 
Remember how they went? Three bells meant "everybody out as fast as possible (but always quietly and dignified.) " Two bells meant "everybody back in and hit the books again." One bell meant "freeze where you are," a command that caused human statues in grade school. This last wasn't that common, but sure made for a lot of stares from passing drivers. 
Well, friends, it seems that St. Mary's doesn't want its students to forget the good ol' days, for they've kept the fine old tradition of fire drills alive all these years. Afew things are different from secondary school times, but for the most part, the fun is still there. 

The Budget 
2:30's a good time 
. Some of the differences show up more quickly than others. For mstance, why waste the time of a class to have a fire drill. Mter all, 
• any real fire wouldn't have the audacity to do something like that. Therefore, it's better to switch the time to the evening hours, like say, 2:30a.m. That way it'll also impress upon the students the meaning of

IS passed 
the drill. 

Secondly, why use expensive bells to tell the students when to evacuate? Loud buzzers are much more effective--that'll wake up even the most fatigued student and get her marching. 
Thirdly, and here comes the cleverest part, a way to keep the
The Board of Commissioners passed in the treasurer's office, these two clubs 
students awake during the proceedings is needed, for after all, when a
the student government budget yester­and all the others will have to prove that 
s~udent stays up to 1:00 to study for her 8:00 midterm, she might be a
day. The only major revisions to the they are spending the money as per their 
bit less respon~ive than is desired. St. Mary's solution: run the girls finance committee's recommendations budget requests. out .. in nig~tgowns and robes only (sometimes no shoes, into the frigid that the board made 1 were separate Hall funds Indiana air and more than occasional South Bend snow. And from financing of the New Frontier Scholastic In the area of hall funds, it is un­what I hear, it works damn well--St. Mary's securityhaveyet to find a Society and a restructuring of the fortunate that a basically sound plan had girl asleep in the bushes the day after a drill. 
• 
financial arrangements of the hall life to be modified because the Hall 
·, Bonds of friendship
• fund and the hall grant program. Presidents Council insisted on making 
I Club changes itself an unnecessary middleman in the S~C fir_e dril.ls also play a part in other areas of the college ex­perience. Fo~ mstance, the bonds of friendship among students are 
l The decision to fund the New Frontier process. The HPC exists only as an 
s~rengthened Immeasurably the next day-just look at all the long 
' 
Scholastic Society as a separate club was outgrowth of the individual hall govern­
lme of students carrying sick trays back to the dorms from the dining 
. ;t


a a wise one. It was unfair to lump the two ments. The demand that money hall. Li~ten to all the requests to borrow class notes. Hear the sweet ,~ groups together just because of the race budgeted for the halls be channeled harmom~, ones that must require a good deal of practice, of coughing
of their members. Now the Society of through the HPC was merely the addition and sneezmg Ujamma is established as the of an extra hurdle between the funds and 
And in the social department. What better way for a St. Mary'sreplacement for the defunct Afro­the students in the residence halls. student to show her real self to her Notre Dame boyfriend (or any male American Society. Now the HPC gets $2000 to run An wandering around the SMCcampusat the time-it doesn't really matter Whether it was a good idea todesignate Tostal and $5100 will go directly to the the boyfriend '11 get the story eventually) than as a blue shivering mass student government. of nightgown and lessh in curlers? Sometimes the girls will even get a 
one group as the sole replacement for the halls from (The 
free show right there as three wandering minstral-types provided at a
old organization is probably a question $400 difference between the present 
Regina drill last year.
that can be debated at great length for allocation and the original one is the the next couple of years (among those money that was given to the New Keep an eye on Suzywho are interested), but the issue had to Frontier Scholastic Society.) The idea of be settled somehow. There was no point a rebate that was inherent in the original in student government diving into the proposal has a lot of merit, but its obvious And somethin~ importa~t fro~ t~~ parents' end: what better way to 
interns! structures of the two that $14 only goes so far. You can't have check up on httle Suzy s activities? Who knows what lustful organizations. it both ways---either the clubs suffer or passionate things she's doing with that Notre Dame brute? But if she'~ in bed when drill time comes, we'll know she's safe. We don't know
Now the Society of Ujamma and the (to some extent) the halls suffer. Under 
about having guarded open lobbies, but we'll fight to the death to keep
New Frontier Scholastic Society can the circumstances, a solid balance was 
our daughters safe and cold! operate on separate budgets for the established. Before Jcameto the Dome, I went to a public high school. Since I've different activities that they are plan­been here, I'ye found out that most students around here went to ning. Under the new accounting system John Abowd parochial or private high schools. We had another kind of drill in 
~ublic. high school, an air raid drill. I thought they were kidding the first time but I later concluded that it was logical, since it was in­tended for a nuclear attack. Depending on the age of the building a l?ud gong or a creaking buzzer would sound three times, at whi'ch 
l 
j signal everybody would file into the corridors and get down on hands a~d knees and cover the back of the nectt with his hands. We did all I this up against the corridor walls while the teachers walked up and do~, making sur~ we di~'t talk. My teachers' "bravery" in ex­1 posmg _themselves If the thmg had been real never did impress me,I and I figured that about half the bones in my body would have been shattered if any concussion had been involved in the attack. In other 
l words, typical institutional stupidity. 
) ~t. Mary's seems to have been able to keep up the tradition of fire 
I 
i drills quite well. Here's a new tradition after all, Notre Dame starts at l~ast one a year for them: inaugurating an air-raid drill every other mght. That way, loyal St. Mary's students won't be caught unaware when the world destroys itself. I'll be curious to see what modifications they'll make in the I ' procedure.
I 
t 

the observer 
011, 1r's YOlJ. .. I
J/1, IJAO. 

HEIIRJ.) YO() WeRE 
The Staff

.COMING FOR !He
.. 
,; 

we15KeNP. .r ll.I1RcP 
Night Editor: Joe Abell 
Ass't Night Editors: Bill Brink, Marlene Zloza Day Editor: Bill Sohn Pictures: Jerome Phillips Typists: Dianne Chermside, Steve Roper, Harry 
Chung, Tom Modglin, Phil Orshein Night Controller: Robert S. Barringer 

Friday, October 20, 1972 the observer 
shop I ifting: to take or not to take 
Cc) 1972 New York Times News Service 
New York-The group of high school students in Connecticut's affluent Fairfield County were part of an encounter session and when the subject got around to shoplifting they had no trouble comparing experiences, recounting exploits. 
"What have you stolen?" one girl was asked. Laughing, she struggled to recall the harvest of several years: "Shirts, eyeliner, eyeshadow, nail polish, cartons of cigarettes, earrings, bracelets, rings, candy, wallets, belts, underwear, purses, tapes (about $200 worth), combs, necklaces, scarves ... " 
Shoplifting, like every other crime, has moved into the suburbs; across the nation it has increased in the last decade by about 174 per cent. The loss (which includes em­ployee-theft as well as customer-theft> amounted to $3.5 billion last year, according to the National Retail Merchants Association. The cost, of course, is passed on to the customer. 
Who are the shoplifters? Besides the professionals and the drug addicts and the occasional kleptomaniac, there is the vast army of amateurs who steal for personal reason. 
Big stores, particularly in the city, have long recognized the problem, but suburban retailers with small shops are just begin­ning to acknowledge it, and the suburbs provide a happy hunting ground for amateur and professional alike. 
"It's a very difficult problem," said Andre Schanzer, owner of Livingston Stationers in Englewood, N.J. "I have spent 30 to 40 per cent of my time being a policeman rather than a merchant." 
Security experts estimate that more than 50 per cent of the shoplifters are juveniles, with women in their thirties and forties providing another substantial group. "We are suspicious every time we see a woman push a baby carriage through the store," said a retailer in the Manuet Mall, Nanuet, N.Y. 
In many suburban towns, shoplifting seems to reach epidemic proportions among early teen-agers-at the junior high school level. 

At one point in Walter Kerr's adaptation of Aristophanes' The Birds, the bird chorus warns any reviewers in the audience that if they don't like the play, "When you walk down the .street you had better wear a hat." This is one writer who's crossing the campus bareheaded. 
The National Players' Tuesday night visit ot O'Laughlin was an evening of won­derfully zany theater. It's not often any more that audiences see wild, broad slap­stick comedy executed as well as by this traveling company from Washington's Catholic University. Director Edward Cashman's superb blocking and stage business was easily the highlight of the show. 
Comedy schticks straight from vaudeville and old Marx Brothers films lent a whole new perspective to the classic Greek comedy. Kerr's adaptation of Aristophanes lends itself to Cashman's broad low comedy style. 
The wild, burlesque-y, vaudeville-ish comedy does proper justice to the fifth century B.C. author. no less an authority than Aristotle looked down upon Aristophanes' work as rough and vulgar. In a time when the plotless comedies of Groucho, Harpo, Chico, and Zeppo are in vogue, when the Three Stooges bring a crowd to the TV, when the antics of Woody Allen reign supreme in the film world, it's brilliant of the National Players to bring the work of the grandfather of them all on national tour. 
Much as Allen or the Marxes .abandoned standard conventions of their medium for the sake of a quick gag, Aristophanes .abandoned the conventions of the classic theater forms freely, wildly, delightfully. Director Cashman takes every opportunity that Aristophanes and Kerr offer to allow his actors to break in and out of character and situation. It works! It works perfectly! 
The National Players worked smoothly as an ensemble. Despite the excellent in­dividual performances by Kevin Gilmartin 

Mrs. Joy Walker, a Fail:field County high school teacher who conducts com­munications workshops and human relations classes, sees shoplifting as a way that teen-agers test themselves and prove their resourcefulness and courage. 
"Though they place honesty high on their list of values, they see no connection bet­ween shoplifting and dishonesty," she said. 
"In junior high· school shnplifting is a status thing," explained o~~ ehigh school student. "You are out to prove you are 
groovy and you can make it. You brag about it on the school bus." 
"It's like a game," said another. 'You watch television, like 'to catch a thief,' and you watch him climb down the roof and you say, 'that's really heavy!' 
"The people who work in the store are going to feel like jerks when they realize you got away with it." 
What happens if parents find out? 
"To be caught by your parents is almost as challenging as stealing," said one girl. "You can come up with great explanations. Convincing your parents where you got it is part of the game." 
Judge Margaret Driscoll of the juvenile court in Fairfield Coutny said parents' reactions vary when their children are caught shoplifting. 
"Some parents think it's much ado about nothing and some parents are shocked," she said. "They can't imagine their child doing it." 
Theatre Nates 

fJying high 
I. franklin devine 
and Richard Winterstein as the two unhappy men who try to set up a paradise among the birds, it's the ensemble which dominates the show. The interaction and movement of the ensemble, choreographed by Donna Welby was often breathtaking. Welby appeared in the ensemble as one of the birds of Cloud Cuckooland. 
Movement was the key to this producton of The Birds. The clumsy movement of the men of theshow constantly contrasting with the smoothness of the birds, particularly the King Bird played by John Gray. 
The importance of movement was reflected in Joseph Lewis' colorful, flapping costumes which were at once both outrageous and graceful. When seeing the design of someone such as Lewis, one is reminded of just how much imaginative designers can add to a production. 
Rolf Seyer's simple set and lighting never got in the way of the perf~rmance. The rocks and clouds of Cloud Cuckooland reflected the contempt of Aristophanes for theater convention ... becoming a parody of theater sets. The parody was continued in the music for the performance, much of it by Spike Jones. 
It's frustrating to a reviewer to write of a one night performance. One can only igloat about catching one of the best ensembles to appear on the NC-8MC scene in a long time. Well, maybe you can catch the National Players on tour here next year. 
TJ:tere's additional theater activity on the campus this week. Danny Chambis, an ND sophmore, opens his production of an original experimental dance program, Visionary Revelations of Man. The program is the first production of the season for the ND-8MC Lab Theatre. It opens Friday night at 8:00 at the Little Theatre on the St. Mary's campus. The performances, both Friday and Saturday nights are free. 
Meanwhile, as the Lab Theatre opens, Director Charles Ballinger's major production of The Lion in Winter is preparing to travel. The ND-SMC Theatre production is scheduled for a Michigan City performance next week. 
Teen-agers point out defensively that "adults do it all the time, only in more subtle ways," that mother take groceries from the 
supermarket ("but they don't consider it stealing, just taking") and that fathers cheat on income taxes. 
Suburban retailers deal with shoplifting in various ways, from extreme reluctance to open admission of its existence, from simple watchfulness to highly sophisticated means of coping. 
Control of shoplifting seems to depend upon security devices combined with trained personnel and eternal vigilance. More and more shopkeepers are seeking professional help, and security companies are booming. 
Shoplifting seems to flourish in many regional shoppping centers. Security authorities say the impersonal climate may 


cologne: 
What can you say about a world-famous orchestra like the Cologne Chamber? Nearly everybody agrees that it's one of the best around in its field, and after last night's concert, I must admit that I wholeheartedly agree. 
So what can I say? How about if I tell you about the members of the orchestra. For the most part, they were young, something that really surprised me. After seeing the Vienna Symphony Orchestra last year, I was expecting white ties and full tails, not black pants and turtlenecks. Nearly every member of the orchestra looked under 30, complete with continental hairstyles (which seems logical.). 
Okay, so they were longhairs in more than one sense. That doesn't say much about the music, which is the basic reason people went, right? The music, if not familiar, was by familiar composers of the Baroque period: three different Bachs and Mozart. And the playing was nothing short of vir­tuoso. 
The concert began with Johann Christoph Friedrich Bach's Sinfonie in D minor, done with eight violins, two violas, two cellos, one bass, and a harpsichord. It was a light, intriguingly intricate piece in which the quick staccatto notes of the violins dominated musically as much as the 1 harpsichord dominated the stage. The sinfonie was of the usual fast-slow-fast three movement pattern, and the performance, especially the second movement, conveyed the musicians' sincerity. The only fault I could find was that the strings completely overpowered the harpsichord. I don't know why, but I couldn't hear the harpsichord at all during this piece, and that tended· to weaken the Baroque flavor of the piece. 
• The second work featured solo pianist Justus Frantz, a small, dapper man who, once his glasses are in place, looks like his mind is on business alone. He's the only one in a full tuxedo and looks a bit awkward onstage with the .more casually-dressed orchestra members. The composer this time is Mozart , his Concerto in A major 

KV414 for Piano and Orchestra, and though originally meant for a full orchestra, the Cologne Chamber has adapted the material admirably for its purposes. The piece starts out lyrically and with the second motive, a march rhythm emerges. Here the pianist takes over for a number of interactions with the orchestra dotted with an occasional piano cadenza. The piano follows the string motive at first, but later declares its in­dependance as soloist Frantz' virtuosity becomes more apparent. His quick high notes become so fluid at one point as to simulate flute notes. 
The second movement is a bit more solemn in tone, keeping with the fast-slow­fast pattern, and there is much more em­phasis on the soloist. In the third, Frantz shines as he leads the orchestra through a 
irene backalenick 
be one major reason-most of the stores are 
owned by large chains, management is 
frequently replaced and few salespeople get 
to know their customers. 
Aron Breslow, who co-owns Breslow 
Brothers, a stationery and book store in 
New Canaan, Conn., comments: "In a small 
town like this you know most of the kids and 
you feel you are close to them. You give 
them a certain trust, and when they don't 
honor it, financially and personally, it's a 
double hurt." 
The willingness of store owners to talk 
about shoplifting varies from community to 
community. Shopkeepers in New Canaan, 
for example, are in general extremely 
reluctant to talk about it <"Of course we 
have some; d~n't everybody?" one in­
sisted). 

But in Westport, Conn., it has become 
such a problem that the reticence has 
disappeared. In the last year, many 
Westport shops have installed security 
devices and are no longer reluctant to call 
the police, even for young offenders. 
The usual penalty for first offenders in 
Connecticut is a $20 fine. 
Authorities offer two reasons why 
shoplifting appears to have become such a 
national pastime. They say today's values 
permit it and merchandising, with its 
emphasis on eye appeal and availability of 
good, encourages it. 
The browser is urged to see, touch, take. Self-service stores have few salespeople on the floor. What it comes down to, authorities say, is that today's society encourages the urge in everyone to beat the system. 


excellent 
joseph abel/ 

number of complex passages. 
At this point was supposed to be an in­termission, but pianist Frantz continued top play, encouraged by enthusiastic applause. Somthing more contemporary, Prokofiev's Finale from the Seventh Sonata proved beyond a doubt Frantz' ability. This highly complex piece was played almost vicisously by the soloist, who afterwards returned three times for well-deserved curtain calls. 
The second part of the concert flowed a bit more easily, mostly due to the addition of an oboe soloist. The harpsichord was put aside for C. P. E. Bach's Concerto in E flat major for Oboe and String Orchestra, and a more whimsical tone was added to the strings courtesy of soloist Gunther Passin. 
Written in 1765, the piece again follows the fast-slow-fast pattern, one that results in a first movement that takes off in a flight of fantasy, a more reflective, sombre second movement, and a lively, vigorous third movement. In the third movement especially, the oboe blended most ef­fectively with the strings, sometimes losing its indentity among them. 
The last scheduled piece, a Mozart divertimento, was discarded in favor of a Mozart concerto for oboe, strings, and harpsichord. This was the most effective of the orchestra pieces, as oboe, strings and even harpsichord played a significant part in creation of the work. Easily one of the peaks of the concert, it encouraged the audience to call conductor Helmut Muller­Bruhl back for three curtain calls. 
A quick encore followed, the Air from the Third Orchestral Suite by Johann Sebastian Bach, a string-dominated piece with harp­sichord. Not as exciting as the preceeding works, it was, however, a fitting finale to a satisfying concert. 
St. Mary's has recently taken a second place to no one when it comes to music. First Ra vi Shankar and now the Cologne Chamber Orchestra. What next? Whatever, I hope it is up to the caliber of these two excellent presentations. 
8 

the observer Friday, October 20, 1972 
To speak at design congress 
McCandless : Mexico City a start 
by Patti Shea geological conditions of the land. questioned. Such designs would geotecture, because it is designedStaff Reporter "As these natural conditions do not eliminate crowded areas in cities on an environmental level, would 

Notre Dame architecture stop at national boundaries, and also reduce maintenance cost provide beauty. student Ken McCandless, hopes to geotecture is truly an international in the long run according to Saying that architecture should draw international attention to the concern.'' McCandless. become more radical, McCandless environmental benefits of He pointed out that the Advantages of easier control of indicated that geotecture would geotecture at a hemisphere geological environment of the temperature, humidity, and noise cause far-reaching changes in the congress on design in Mexico City Rocky Mountains extended from in geotectural buildings were also areas such as zoning laws in many next week. Canada to Mexico. mentioned by McCandless. countries. 
McCandless, who considers Mexico City, the location of the In addition to the practical value Looking ahead to the design himself a blend of artist and congress, was termed by of geotecture, McCandless em­congress where he will present his designer, was invited to speak at McCandless as the "perfect place" phasized the importance of beauty views McCandless commented, the "Design in the Americas" to present his ideas. He cited the in this type design. "Living art," "This congress will be to en­Congress after submitting an recent completion of the world's McCandless explained, "is vironmental design what the abstract of work he has done in most modern subway system there achieved through the harmony of Stockholm congress was to the geotecture while studying en­as evidence of what man could do nature and man-made structures." political world.'' vironic design at Notre Dame. with underground architectural McCandless .maintained that 
"Geotecture, which is the design design. of underground structure, should "Surface saturation" was ter­be a global concern," McCandless med by McCandless to be one of 

Many seniors placed
declared. "It would provide an the main reasons why he feels excellent way of fostering in­geotecture is a practical design. ternational cooperation." "Why couldn't we build movie 
through GRAD prograzn
McCandless pointed to the fact theaters, warehouses, and fac­that geotecture depends on the tories underground?" he 
Over half of the seniors who Notre Dame students averaged participated in the Placement 4.4 matches per student, Willemin Bureau's GRAD II program were added. Participants were allowed

New grants received 
matched with potential employers. to list up to three career interests The print-outs from the service which the computer matched with 

-30% off Latex Paint 
-15% off unpainted fu rn itu re 
333 S. Michigan 289-2439 

administration building this af­
lorresearch, facilities 
ternoon beginning at 1:00.
Notre Dame accepted $268,608 evaluation of "Wastewater . GRAD II is a computerizedfor the month of September to Treatment Apparatus" directed by service designed to matchsupport individual faculty projects the College of Engineering. graduating college students within research, as well as educational --$500 from tfrom the Carroll City employers who are looking for new programs and new facilities and Cancer Association as a grant-in­employees with particular majors, equipment, according to Dr. 

aid to the Department of or career interests.
Robert E. Gordon, vice president Microbiology. Three hundred fifty-nine seniorsfor advanced studies. 
--$500 from Ben C.P. Han as a participated in the initial GRAD IIAwards for research totaled grant-in-aid to the Department of RUN. . . Another session will start$248,016 and included: Aerospace and Mechanical soon and end on Dec. 1, according--$77,120 from the National In­Engineering. to Richard Willemin, placementstitutes of Health (NIH) for a study --$300 from Schott Industries, bureau director.
of "Behavior of Errors in 
Inc. as a grant-in-aid to theDiscretized Physical Models" by Department of Civil Engineering.
Dr. Sidney Kelsey, professor of 
Awards for educational.
civil engineering. 

programs totaled $15,092 and in­--$27,398 from the NIH for cluded:research on "Language Attitudes --$11,592 from the Indianaof Billingual Chicanos" by Dr. 
Criminal Justice Planning Agency 'Ellen Bouchard Ryan, assistant of St. Joseph County for an in­professor of psychology. 
ternship program directed by--$20,273 from the NIH for Leslie G. Foschio, assistant deanresearch on "Amino Acids and 
of the Law School.

Protein Metal Complexes" by Rev. 
--$2,500 from the L. SudlerJoseph Walter, C.S.C., associate Foundation for the Musical Artsprofessor of chemistry. 
for "Instruction for Secondary--$16,655 from the NIH for 
Wood Wind Instruments" byresearch on Isozymes of 
Glutamate Aspartate Tran­
professor of music.

sominase" by Dr. Marino Mar­--$1,000 from the Sun Oil Com­tinez-Carrion, associate professor pany as a grant-in-aid to theof chemistry. 
Department of Chemical
--$14,070 from the National 
Engineering.

Academy of Sciences for a "Nuclear Data Compilation 
SMC schedules films
Program" directed by Dr. Cor­nelius P. Browne, professor pf 
physics. on Indian culture --$9,000 from the United Cancer 
Three short movies on classicalCouncil as a grant-in-aid to the Indian dance, music, and folkLobund Laboratory. 
festivals will be shown on Sunday,--$6,000 from the Indiana October 22, 1972 at 7:30 p.m. inEducation Service Foundation for Carroll Hall, Madeleva Memorial, a study of "Mobile Home Indoor Saint Mary's College, Notre Dame. 
Air Purification Systems" by Dr. 
A half-hour color film will stageAndrew R. McFarland, associate the famous Kathakali, a costumedprofessor of civil engineering. 
dance drama, accompanied by--$5,000 from Miles Laboratories, classical music, from the southern Inc. as a grant -in -aid to the state of Kerala. Two short filmsDepartment of ·Chemistry. 
will highlight the performance of--$5,000 from Miles Laboratories, the celebrated drummers ofInc. as a grant-in-aid to the Manipur ·and the exciting folkDepartment of Microbiology. 
music, inCluding the traditional--$3,900 from the U.S. Steel, boat racing songs of the south.
Foundation as a graduate-study The entire event will be fiftyfellowship in the Office of Ad­minutes long. This film series isvanced Studies. 
sponsored by the College's History --$3,000 from Telecom-department. The public is invited, munication Industries, Inc. for 
free of charge. 

FUN FEST Friday, October 20 8 pm 
J 
American Legion Post 357 
1606 Western Ave. S. B. 
FREE REFRESHMENTS & ENTERTAINMEN Admission: $2.00 
·-Sponsored by St. Joseph County Young.Democrat~ 
.;_. 

are available at room 222 in the available employers. '--------------~ 
LAKESIDE THEATRE 
presents: 
Sidney Poitier  Katherine Hepburn  Spencer Tracy  
. an  Guess Who's Coming To Dinner  
Saturday, Oct. 21 at 8 & 10 Admission 75' Holy Cross Auditorium (NO)  

James S. Phillips. assistant

Zagrans' Zinema West presents Fri. Oct 20 SPLENDOR IN THE GRASS STARRING Natalie Wood & Warren Beatty ~ 8:00 & 10:00 Admission $1.00 Sat. Oct. 21 Folk Concert starring Buck & John Mike Walker Bob & Robin Admission 50' 8:00 come to "America" in the Basement of Flenner  
HERE COMES THE GREATEST ROn _ VICTOR MusiC fro111 tile TV Series THE MANCINI GENERATION HENRY MANCINI and His Orchestra VICTORncn VICTOR non I "fCCMO 1fT f-lfl liiSIS HENRY· Theme from "The Mancini Generation" Amazinr Grace The Swill(in' Shepherd Blues mere lncludillf: Theme from love StoryHENRY MANCINI Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Headand His Orchestra Girl from lpanema more available at Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore  

Wills discusses witchcraft 
(continued from page 5) naturally be a woman, he said. "Witchcraft was very rarely a funny matter," he concluded. If a jury could prove that a witch in­flicted death, death would be inflicted on the witch in return. For lesser crimes, a witch would be sentenced to wear a white gown and carry a candle in public for a 
certain  number  of  days  as  
penance, Wills rep orted.  
Before  Wills  publishes  his  
~reatise  on  witches  and  

Shakespeare, he plans to write another book on politics, "A follow­up to Nixon Agonistes if I only knew what that was," he stated. One of the few successful free­lance writers in America today, he 

left a teaching position at Johns ve ... unimaginative, scared, Hopkins University in 1967 to act as constrictive ... '' a contributing editor for Esquire Questioned on the premise of a 
Magazine. 
"I was greedy," he confided. "Esquire asked me to be a con­tributing editor--four articles a year and then three. They paid a good deal more than Johns Hopkins." In 1970, he left Esquire to devote all his time to his syn­dicated columns and manuscripts. 
Interviewed after the afternoon speech ended, Wills predicted that Nixon would win the presidency by a large percentage of votes in November. Comparing Nixon to Warren Harding, he said, "the American people are getting exactly what they deser-
Erratum 
Several inaccurate statements were attributed to D•·. Robert Gordon, Vice Prf'sident for Advanced Studies, in yesterday's ar­ticle: "TA salaries de­t>mphasized." 
"The caption under my picture implies that I stated that TA salaries should be uniform with a $2400 minimum. I did not. Nor did I charge both faculty and students with 'no real com­mitment to scholarship.' A graduate student present made the observation that many students pursued only formal requirements for a degree and did not appear to be immersed in their discipline to the extent that they would fully participate in discussions, formal or in­formal, of their work. I asked for clarification, 'Are you saying that they do not have a real commitment to scholarship?,' " Gordon said. 

Wills talksnationalpolitics===========~ 
(continued from page 5) 
_ controlled economy and big government spending. "That's not really a sell-out," contended Wills, labeling it a mere consequence of the out-middling strategy. After all, the middlers elect the President too, he said. In understanding our system it's easy to see that a candidate, once in­stalled in offece, is "bound to please his own constituency less than any other." Each president's former out­middling leaves a vast "maneuveable space facing out toward the people," said Wills, and each is temped to move into it, a temptation which is often the reflection of his own move into tt, a temptation which is often the reflection of his own beliefs which have been distorted in their translation to the public. Thus, Franklin Roosevelt promised less government spending in 1932, and "all history knows what kind of fiscal belt­tightening FDR pulled off." Woodrow Wilson and Lyndon Johnson promised peace and delivered wars. Richard Noxon swears by anti-communism and, as the pundits say, "clinks glasses with communists in Peking and Moscow." 
But this is not totally disad­vantageous, Wills hurriedly countered. It also makes possible the most enlightened and far­reaching civil rights legislation in 
'U.S. history, pushed through Congress by LBJ, a Southerner-­but "a Southerner is the only one who could have pulled it off." John Kennedy, he said, "is the only one who could have <failed to) go soft on Catholics" in the area of Catholic aid with federal govern­ment monies. And only Nixon could go to be friends with the Red Chinese and Russians. 
Labels of conservative and liberal, anti-communist and peacenik are mainly "tactical" anyway, said Wills, the meaning of which are lost in the out-middling. 
Then there is the continuity principle , given life by the fact that the American elective system makes each election a "legitimation" of the government. If there is one thing an election is not, said Will, that thing is an "instrument of change."
"We all have a great love of (an 

election's) settling aspects." said 
Wills. "At a time when other 
governments are considered un­
stable," the U.S. is at its most 
"even" at election. The tradition 
is agian being enacted and the 
nation is comforted. 
The change comes, believes 
Wills, when the society decrees it, 
the result of a movement begun by 
a group of "people with principles, 
who couldn't be elected mayor of 
South Bend <e.g. the 'weirdoes' 
who conducted the Bietnam teach­
ins of the mid-'60's). This inspires 
the President to act upon it and 
consequent laws and re-election to 
legitimize it. 
"Roosevelt sold out." said Wills, 
"and then got restrospective validation of his programs. The things that start the momentum of change are unpredictable," making a strong case, believes Wills, for the existence of human 
freedom. 
Wilks turned his attention to 
McGovern several times during 
his lecture, labeling his nomination 
a "political freak," and him "the 
beneficiary of an extraordinary 
(amassmennt) of accidents." He 
noted that McGovern carried with 
him to the convention only 28 per 
cent of the total primary vote, and 
was nominated by a party body 
which was 20 pef cent college 
graduated while the country's 
populace is only 6 per cent, and a block representation which was 40 per cent college graduated and with an average income that made them the "aristocracy of America," thua rendering the convention delegate picking process-"an oddly skewed svstem'." 
·But Wills could not emphasize 
enough, either in his hour lecture 
or in the 45-minute question-and 
answer period that followed, that 
SENIORS! 

What are you doing with your future? Marist Lay Volunteers opens op­portunities for you in teaching and other areas. Want to know more? Stapleton Lounge in LeMans St. Mary's at 7:30 Sunday night. 
.____________. 
recent Scholastic article speculating that Shakespeare's plays were really written by Sir Francis Bacon, Wills replied, "Bacon didn't have the time to write Shakespeare's plays. He was too busy as an aspiring politician." 
He also briefly talked about his new book, Bare-Ruined Choirs. "The title comes from Sonnet 73," explained the English scholar. According to Wills, the book links the recent developments in the Catholic Church to recent developments in American politics. "In the Kennedy years, Catholics were enthusiastic; in the Johnson years, they were disillusioned; in the Nixon years 
they just  don't care,"  he  sum­ 
marized.  
"Today  we  are  living  in  a  

Middle-Americanized Catholic Church," he commented. The book is reviewed in this week's Time. Newsweek, and this month's issue of Playboy Magazine. November's Playboy also features an article authored by Wills on "Imprisonment Chic," chronicling the jailing of beautiful people who protest social problems. 
Refusing to prophesize the future of the Catholic Church in America, Wills said, "If you could, the act of prophecy would be evil." 
Not trained as a professional journalist, Wills felt that graduate 
he was not being "cynical," but rather "hopeful." Besides generally seeming to trust the American political system, even if for all the ostensibly wrong reasons, he found reason to be optimistic in the disillusionment America is beginning to ex­
perience with itself. 
"America was put together by a 
ot of rationalist types," said Wills, 
"who reasoned that anybody could 
put together a country in five 
days." The product of their work 
carried with it advantages and 
limitations, he said, the latter of 
which we are just beginning to 
realize. He sees the realization as 
"healthy." 
He did not confine the giving of 
the back of his hand to McGovern 
only, since the common 
demominator in his contempt for 
both Nixon and McGovern was the 
fact of their profession: politics. 
WiUs, born in 1934, trained as a 
classicist and the author of seven 
books, announced at the end of his 
talk that he had plans for two more 
hooks: one that he really wants to 
write on Shakespeare, and one that 
he has no desire to write,on 
politics. The latter he said, is 
publisher before he can get the 
first publication. 
.I 
' 

Friday, October 20, 1972 the observer 
9 

l 
training in journalism would have hampered him. "You have to have something to write about before you can write," he said. Graduate school, ingeneral, ruins writer­s ... would you send a Mailer to graduate school? There have been hardly any good journalists, novelists or poets who have gone to graduate school. It is much better to just start writing and ex­periencing." 

~ 
l 
No laughing matter I 
Wills: Witchcraft was no laughing matter to Shakespear's con­temporaies. If convicted, 
l
death by hanging, not the traditionally thought bur­ning at the stake, was possible. 
The School of Management of Syracuse University, Syracuse, N.Y. will be interviewing interested applicants for the Masters in Business Administration and M.S. in Ac­counting Program on Thursday, Nov. 2, 1972, all day. For further information inquire at the Placement office on campus. 
Main Church Sunday Masses 
5: 15 p.m. Sat. Fr. Robert Griffin, C.S.C. 9:30a.m. Sun. Fr. William Matthews, C.S.C. 
10:45 a.m. Sun. Fr. Karl Last 
12: p.m. Sun. Fr. William Toohey, C.S.C. 
"Evening Prayer" vespers at 4:30 p.m. Sunday. Confessions are heard before weedkay masses and from 7:00 to 7:30p.m. Mon. thru Sat. in Sacred Heart. 
~ 
HOUISt MON • TUES -TtMt -PRI 9 AM. 5:30PM W'm • SAT 9 AN. 12 NOON 
COMPLEI'E $PEICTACI.f

RoGERS SDVICE ALL ~E DR.'S 'I!SCit.,TIONS HONOIE CaH
Optical 
289-7809

100!1 A1WEI.L -OWNH 
ALUMNI CLUB 
FRI. -Happy Hour 4-5:30 
Open from 4-Z am Bloody Mary's 
SAT. -Pre-Game Specials & -2 for $1 Screwdrivers 
THE CLUB WILL STAY OPEN DURING THE GAME IN GRATITUDE FOR THOSE SENIORS WHO HAVE DONATED THEIR TICKET (The game will be shown on T.V. at the club.) 
SAT. NITE-9:00-10:00 pm ( 1f2 price on mixed drinks for all ladies) 
SAT.-open from 10:00-2 am 
10 
the observer 

Sex ideas: which are true? 
(continued from page 4) 

of sexual revolution. Namely, that young people -. . . --are engaging in premarital cmtus m greater numbers \ I --are doing it more often \ --are doing it with more different people --are doing it more often with people they do 
not love In fact the research suggests (according to Kennecty) that changes in sexual attitudes 
are not in a more radical but in a more con­servative direction . 

"The sexual revolution has happened and it has not happened," Kennedy claims. "It has happened because people want to believe that it has, and it has not happened b~cause the evidence does not suggest widespread radiacal changes in sexual behavior." 
THE SEX IS EVERYTHING MYTH: Sex is extremely important, Kennedy says, but it has been so overemphasized in our day that a distortion has taken place. It is a part of man, not the whole. True sexuality is a function of the total personality and is experience~ and expressed only in the lives of genumely mature people. But the existence of the myth that "sex is everything" has force young persons, often prematur~ly, into sexual intimacy which they can neither ap­preciate nor explore in great depth.. . 
"It is no accident," Kennedy mamtams, "that many people seem fixated or frozen at the adolescent stage of development; T~e reason they look this way is because that IS exactly where they are. It is also where they will remain as long as the myth about all­important sex shapes their understanding about themselves and their lives." 
All too often, Kennedy says, when peop~e invest themselves in the notion that sex IS everything it turns out to be nothing at all. For Kennedy, the answer does not lie in more sex education courses; it involves the deepening of the entire courses appreciation of the real value and meaning of life itself. 
THE "EQUALITY IN SEX" MYTH: There's a myth which states that men and women are not really different sexually and have fundamentally the same responses physiologically and psychologically. On the contraty, Kennedy says some of the biggest problems in the relationships of men a.nd women (especially in the sexual sphere) anse from their difficulty in truly appreciating the genuine and ineradicable ~iff~ren~es that exist between them on a physwlogical and psychological level. 
A a Kennedy puts it, this myth not only ignores basic differences between ~e~ and women but also "eclipses an appreciation of what makes their relationship rich and rewarding: the contrasts and com­
plementarity of the sexes." "It is hardly old-fashioned," says Kennedy, "to suggest that sex works best when an authentic man meets an authentic woman and they are able to share their id~ntity in t.he intimacy that understands their equah~y while it acknowledges and respects their defferences." 
SOME "FREE AT LAST" MYTHS: 
Kennedy jabs at myths which flow from the 
new-found discovery of sexual liberation by 
today's society. Qne such myth is that group 
sex provides a valid answer to monotonous 
and confining one-to-Qne sex relationships. 
''One cannot escape," he says, "the im­
pression of loneliness and alienation and the 
hollowness of failed intimacy in their own 
marriages in the lives of so many who commit 
themselves to liberation through group­
sexual experience. the very superficiality of 
the favored rationalizations tell us that 
something more must be understood about 
the isolated and puzzled people who are 
looking for religious salvation through 
swinging together.'' 

Another "Free at Last" myth, Kennedy 
maintains, is the widespread and mostly 
unqualified endorsement of masturbation. 
The current myth is the logical overreaction 
to the very distorted views on masturbation 
that were held so strongly for so many cen­
turies, he says. 

''While it is clear that it is impossible to 
classify masturbation as a sin," he says, "it 
may not be quite so easy, nor so prudent, to 
glorify it in the way that has been done by 
many of thest> authorities." 
ND ticket exchange reaches goal of 160 
by Jim Eder 
Staff Reporter 
Seven _hundred-sixty un­
derpriviledged children from the 
South Bend area will be able to see 
their first live football game 
Saturday, thanks to the generosity 
of those Notre Dame and St. 
Mary's students who donated their 
Missour tickets to the Student 
Ticket-Exchange Program. 
As of Wednesday night the 
program was about fifty tickets 
short of the number it had 
promised to deliver for the youths,· 
but enough students contributed 
their passes yesterday afternoon to 
meet the goal. Due to the initial 
lack of student response the 
deadline for contributions, 
originally set for Tuesday, was extended two more days. 
"The whole thing is really 
sponsored by the student body," 
explained program coordinator 
B.J. Bingle, when asked who was responsible for the project. 


"Besides those students who donated their tickets, sixty volunteered to act as monitors at the game and another thirty of­fered to drive the kids from South Bend to the stadium" 
Bingle also praised Kathy Kane, a senior from St. Mary's who heads the Neighborhood Study Help Program. "She was a great help in organizing and running the project." The student government provided the program with funds for advertising the campaign. Bingle: Notre Dame and St. 
The children who will be at­Mary's generosity have tending Saturday's game come allowed a new expressisi­from eight community youth Bingle: Notre Dame and St. groups. The largest paricipants in Mary's generosity have the project are the Neighborhood a lloweda new experience for Study Help Program and the 760 South Bend kids. Logan Center for mentally retarded children. Other groups 

understood in the whole complex process of human growth-it is part of the way in which a person deals whith a transitional growing_ together of the sexual dimensions of his personality. But this does not mean that masturbation is a matter of indifference and just another leisure time activity. Not only can the fantasies which acco!llpany it sometimes be signs of 1growth problems ; but also masturbation itself can be quite isolating and is frequently used by the individual to 
combat depression. 

"If a person grows to depend on mastur­
batory activities," Kennedy points out, "this 
may also impede his development in 
relationships to other persons. If he finds the 
focus of all pleasure in himself, then he 
cannot pass through the further stage of being 

TONIGHT--7:00 
AJACK ROLLINS-CHARLES H. JOFFE and BRODSKY/GOULD Production 
WOODY ALLEN'S "EVERYTHING lOUALWAYS WANTED TO KNOW ABOUT SEX* *BUT WERE AFRAID TO ASK" 
Tomorrow 
Woody Allen Plus -Preview 
at 7:45 
llltl.. ll()JII~Il'l' (~()SII\" Hll (~III.. I, 

able to share hmself which is essential to 
I'~'~JII(~J{I~Y ~\ II()(Jf}S'"I
human growth." 

South Bend's Newest 1101J2 N. Main 
'THE RED DOOR CLUB BEER * WINE * LIQUOR 
Come in before and after the game. Memberships Available 
AN'S 

OPEN 1 1 am to 3om 

TONIGHT! PEOPLE AND SONG 
Alumni Hall Lounge Every Friday 9-2 Admission 25¢ Entertainment & Refreshments 
sending children to the game are 
and there was a man
the Northeast Neighborhood Center, the Sister Marita Day 
sent from God

School, Big Grothers, Big Sisters, Manasa and CILA. 
whose name was Paul. 
He was a poor and simple man •except that he had a rich vision. He believed that the unity 
of MAN with himself,with other MEN, and with his GOD was critical enough to demand his Ll FE. He gave it. And he left behind a small group of catholic Franciscans to carry on his vision of ONENESS and WHOLENESS. He was, you might say, a 20th century FRANCIS of Assisi. 
STEPHEN STILLS 
MANASSAS 
1 
Thirty years later, we're still
Some tickets still available at A.C.C. Ticket Office (Gate 10) 
all day tomorrow and next week 

small 
I 
young 
american but we believe our vocation and vision given to us by Fr. Paul Wattson founder of the franciscan Atonement (Graymoor) Friars to be bigger than anyone of us. We'd like to share our 
bigness, smallness, and especially our uniqueness with you for a Weekend. We'd like you to do the same with us. A th G th
C a 11 : r ur ou re 8814Interested? Peter Canavan 1371
) 
Jerry Waite 272-9103
\ 
When? Nov. 10 (Friday evening). Nov. 12 (Sunday afternoon). A cottage on Lake Michigan (1 hr. from ND).
Where? 
Because maybe you, too, have a vision of a franciscan life that overcomes separation 
) ' 
Why? alienation, loneliness, division--that speaks a simple word: ONE. 
) 
) 
( 
} 
<' 
\ 

Friday, October 20, 1972 
the observer 1 1 
Letters • • • 
CLAssiFIED ADS 
• • • on long and the scu.m of the earth 
a Kersten roomie 
Editor: 
re: Tom Long's column 
Kersten never intended to an­swer your remarks in the October 4, Observer, and heremains adamant on this point calling th_em "too laughable for~ reply," ~1ther oral or written. Since I roomed with him freshman year however, I have decided to answe~ your behind-the-scenes invective. After all, we're all "Friends " right? ' 

It's strange that you so con­descendingly remember Kersten as "That crazy freshman down the ha_ll .~earing a Beach Boys tee­shirt . I only recall you as that myopic--it was a Robie Surfboards tee-shirt, Tom--Palitico up the hall who continually stopped by the room around election time trying to tel~ us who to vote for, not to mentiOn the time you self­righteously threatened to bring Kersten up before the Hall Judicial Board for playing soccer in the hallway. "This isn't a personal attack," but in view of your past relationship with Kersten, you have scant grounds for terming yourself his friend. In fact, I don't think anyone in our section would have called you his friend. 
I trust most discerning readers saw through the petty sourgrapes tactics in your warmed-over version of True Confessions; nevertheless, there are some blatant lies in it that need correction. For one thing, Kersten was _at his_ best cursorily a~quamted with many of the wmner~ of friends receiving their appointments from each other and in no way' representative of the students, use it for their own personal ends. According to Kersten, the only way they could have validly endorsed anyone would have been to publish the ~ransc_ript of those oh-so-revealing mterv1ews which allowed them to decide who would be best for the students. The Observer being, to quote you, Tom, "The one media which can reach the students," they should at least be required to 
allot free space before the elec­
tions . for opP?sing viewpoints, a 
practice reqmred of the nation's 
pl"ivat.-ly owned television net­
works--and there are three not 
just one, of them. ' 
Your astounding implication 
that Kersten sits up each night to 
r~n t~e student's $80,000 through 
hts fmgers is also a blatant 
falsehood. You are well aware, or 
~ho~ld be, given your apparent 
tns1de contacts in Student 
Government, that the Student 
Government fund is to be ap­
portioned by the Board of Com­
missioners, i.e., the students on the 
SLC, and not by the SBP himself. 
You demand that Kersten admit 
he doesn't give a damn. Who ever 
said he did? J<ersten'? The 
students'? No, Tom, just you wake 
up, "buddy". I was also amused to 
read how ~ou attempted to identify 
yourself w1th Kersten's devil-may­
care attitude toward student 
politics in statements like "You 
and I have both .said forget the 
whole thing." You pretend to 
abhor poobahs, but "What would 
the students think if they knew" 
you were an integral part of that 
very "clique of poobahs." Why 
don't you admit, friend, that you 
played lackey (after your own 
unsuccessful elective attempts) as 
Hall Captain for both John Barket-­
the. 19?1-72 premier poobah by ~ubJectJv~ ~on~ensus--and again lor Bob H1ggms m his unsuccessful ?id for SBP last Spring--not to 1mply that there might be any hard r;elings b~tween you and R. Calhoun. Fmally, Thomas, admit that you told Kersten last Spring that when he resigned, you yourself planned to run for SBP. That alor:te was enough to keep Kersten. mdeed, any sane man, in office. 
Oh, ~es, Kersten's on an ego trip. 
In hght of your own voiced aspirations toward SBP, I bet it really gets you, doesn't it? 
All in all, your column came across as a mixture of half-baked truths and frustrated ambitions. Heally, Tom, both Kersten and I pick our friends more carefully than that. 
Mark Bright 
MUSIC HALL '72 ... 
Friday, OCTOBER 20 
7 & 9:30 p.m. 
Elliott Hall of Music 
Mail orders should state name, address, phone number, name of event and number and price of tickets desired. Mail your order, a check payable to Purdue University and a stamped self­ad~ress~d envelope to Hall_ of Music Box Office, P~rdue Unt verstty, West Lafayette, IN. 47906 

WANTED
no entertainment 
Need ride to Philly for Navy game, will share expenses & driving. Can leave anytime after
Editor: 
3:00 on Wed. Call Dave 3679. 
. I am. writing to express my 
Need 2 (Two) gen. admission tix 
to any home game, preferably TCU. Andrea, 8156.
dtsappomtment and disgust at the supposed "entertainment" before the arrival of Senator Kennedy last 
Need 4 G.A. tickets to Missouri 
Friday. To disapprove of the 
game. Call 4978. 

Republican administration is one 
Need 4 Miami tickets. Gen. ad­
thing but to express such disap­
mission, call 232-3542.
proval through suggestive lyrics 
and lewd grunts is another. As a 
4 Miami, 1 TCU gen. admission tix. Call John 8786.
member of the ND-SMCi Student 
BODY I resent the implication 
· 

Need 3 general admission
that this community fosters such 
Missouri tix, preferably together. 
Call 6936. treme poor taste. In short I found 
air plays of immaturity and ex­
Help!!! Desperately need total of
the attitude and perfor~ance of 
6 Gen. Adm. tix for Missouri 
the Scum of the Earth offensive. 
game.. combination of 4 adjacent 
seats and 2 adjacent seats. Call Mary Beth 4391.
The group owes all of us who were 
assembled at Stepan Center an 
apology. 
Wanted: garage to rent near campus, Pat 8422. 
2student or 3gen. adm. tix needed
Sincerely, 
for TCU game, Lisa 4556. 
Beth Morgan 
Ride needed to Phila. NY or east on 80. Navy wkend can leave Nov.
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
1 or after Paul 7861. 
Two girls need ride this Sunday to
The editors reserve the right 
NYC · N.J. area. Will share s.
t o edit letters due to space 
Please call 5333.

limitations. 

Need ride to Tupper Lake, NY any weekend. Dan, 1248. 
Desperatly need tickets for TCU game. Please call 3377 now!!!
Life! 
Need G.A. Missouri tix, call 234· 6802. 
Need ride Oct. 20th to Bowling Green, Ohio or tollway east. Call Bruce at 1374. 
Dire need of 2 TCU gen. admin. tix, call Jim at 1918, or 234-8759. 
Riders wanted to Kent. Ohio Friday Oct. 20. Ken 8810. 
Need 3 gen. ad. tickets for Miami, call 1487 Hawkeye. 
Wanted: 4 general admission tix for Miami game. Call 8038. 
Need one Missouri gen. ad. ticket. 
Name your price. Call Jim 7858. 
Desperately need 4 TCU tickets. 
Phone 287-6010. 

I need a roomate. 2 headed, anything. 233-1329. Private. Gorgeous. Keep trying. 
Need 4 general admission tickets for TCU. Need not be together. Call John 1605. 
Need 2 G.A. Missouri tix, call 
1824. 

at: 2:00-5:30-9: oo 
F_aculty · ND Community. Young
2 Shows (Mon. thru Thurs.) 
g1rl. who works in South Bend and 2 & 8 
Notre Dame, wishes to rent extra bedroom in your home -Call 283­7401. 
Room -mate wanted, call 232-4545. 
Need two general admission tix for Missouri game --Frank 8610. 
PERSONAL Need 4 gen. admission tickets for
favorite dirtball: 
Missouri game. Call Jim 7864.
You muff tomorrow's LSAT and i'll never let you live it down....get 
4 gen. ad. tickets needed for
plenty of sleep tonight -~and good 
Miami. Will pay rea onableluck. 
prices . 1796.

sugarlip's Iiebiing 2 girls need ride to PhiladelphiaHave lost my sister, now in love 
weekend of Nov. 4. Will share am looking for another. Help! 
expenses. 4635.

1328. PS Am tired of playing the 
dating game. 
Old newspapers needed. Call Chris at 4449.
Patty · we took another vote 
ELOPE signed: The Boys NOTICES 
Mary, 
Christmas shopping? Try Tup­Your the greatest perware. Home demonstration Day by Day Tuesday night, Oct. 24. Free gifts 
·-bring friends. 233-5901. Wish Donna a Happy Birthday and many happy Thursdays. Call 
Earn $before game, call 232-7143 5258. 
today -3:30-7:30. 

LOST AND FOl•No 
M~G?vern only 8 points behind in MIChigan. Detroit area badlyFound: 1watch two weeks ago in needs_workers tor canvassing and 
O'Shag. Ca II Brian 1852. 
organ1zat1on. Food and place to 
stay provided. Contact Ray 
~ost-on~ fake suede winter coat, Seraffin <ND 1970) (313-729-3550.1 m freezmg. My name is inside, reward, call 1529. 
GOOD TICKETS STILL 
AVAILAE\LE FOR JESL•S Lost. on Saturday, silver­CHRIST SL'PERSTAR AT rh inestoned cross, about 1'h" 
MORRIS CIVIC NEXT WED­long. Of great sentimental value. NESDAY. CALL 8253 FOR Call 4425. 
TICKETS AND INFORMATION. 
Lost: ID, football ticket. 
GSU meeting this Friday at noon bookstore charge card and Detey 1 127 Please
n N .S.H. bringcard. If found please return. housing survey results. Reward: 8144. Does your club or organizationHelp! Lost · Benrus watch bet­need cheap transportation in the 
ween engineering audit & Holy Michiana area?? Ride the "Blue Cross. Need desperateIy! Beasty·" Call Crew Club, 6309 or Reward, AI 3167. 
8825. "We have no limits." 
Help Wanted THE BOAR'S HEAD Opening in November A young organization with a new concept in dining, featuring a limited steak and lobster menu. We are now completing con­struction of our building which uses old English decor and five fireplaces to add to a warm and elegant atmosphere. Accepting Applications for cooks, bartenders, waiters, wa-itresses, cashiers, dishwashers, dining room work. We'll be hiring about 60 full and part time people for our opening crew. An excellent op­portunity for a "fun" and in­teresting job. FOR THE SCHOOL YEAR AND SUMMER. Please apply in person at the Boar's Head 31 North . Next to Howard 'Johnson's Restaurant 
9 am to 6 pm. Ask for Henry or 
Bill 
PANDORA'S BIRTHDAY. BUY & SAVE. MANDALA ·US -3 . .0, LIVING ON THE EARTH 3.95 -2.69, ANY WOMAN CAN I 1.95 · 1.32, DAV OF JACKAL 1.75 -1.23, FISCHER-SPASSKY 1.95 -1.321 ROLLING STO ... ES BIOG. 6.95 • ••57, TASSAJARA BREAD 8001( 

2.95 • 2.20, KNOTS 1.-U .•98, ART OF SENSUAL MASSAGE 3.95 . 2.69, THE PEARL 1.95 . 1.321 MCGOVERN 1.95 -1.32, AND MORE. 
Morrissey Loan Fund. Borrow up to $150. LaFortune basement. Open 11:15-12:15. Monday thru Friday. 
HELP the helpless unborn, with time, money, or both. Right-to Life, Inc. 233-4295. 
Piano lessons: Call Eddie Sears 232-6882; $5 per hour; $3 per half hour. 
Europe over Christmas Fly with the best . Fly BOAC. Incredibly inexpensive! British Overseas Airways. Call Clark, 283-8810, for details. 
ND SMC COUNCIL FOR RETARDED VOLUNTEERS: no Saturday recreation this Satur­day, but we will be going with the children to the game. So come to the Logan Center gym at 11:45 Saturday morning October 21st. 
Post-rally party at KUBIAK'S. Everybody invited. Oct. 20, 9-??. 
Attention all you rockers! Do your feet itch? Absorbine Jr! But if you want to dance come to the Regina North Lobby·. Sat. Oct. 21 from 9-12 pm. Admission only 75 cents each. Featured band is the Promenade. 
Seniors 1 What are you doing with your future? Marist Lay Volunteers _opens opportunities for you in teaching and other areas. Want to know more? Stapleton Lounge in LeMans . St. Mary's at 7:30 Sunday night. 
FOR SALE 

1963 MGB. Tape player, new tires. Cpll Stephen M. Buente 232­2849. . 
New_ Westinghouse Compact Refngerators. Spacious 4.4 cu.ft. capacity, factory warranty, immediate delivery. Call Now! 234-0578 or 232-2618. Ask for Tom. 
For Sale 1971 Suzuki 500 with 2 helmets · $600 or best offer. Call Tom 232-0659. 
Cl LA Christmas Cards now on sale. Support our summer projects. For more info call Mike at 1509. 
1969 Opel station wagon. Good condition, automatic. Call Sally 234-9535. 
Gunuine (Woman) Italian gloves from Florence for sale. Fine quality. Call Muffet Fog, 40:'8. 
Misc. for sale: Kitchen set {table & .c chairs) 3S"X"7" S28.00, 2 end tables & coffee table S27.00, 1~ lb. wt. set S17.00. mens golf Shoes size B like new SS.OO, davenport ·& matching chair $85.00, size 15" ~oodyear surbunite snow tires like new SSO.OO. (5140.00 value new). Call 291~. 
FOR RENT 

Rooms. nice home, close to town ~ for football weekends $6.00 per person. 232-2989 after 6 pm. 
Groovy room for rent. Close to ND; bus; call 289-6581. 
Deadline for all classified ads is 
I: oo  pm  the  day  before  
publication.  All  ads  must  be  
placed  in  person,  and  must  be  
prepaid.  

" 

-
.. 
2_ 

1 2 the observer Friday, October 20, 1972 
r· • 
) \ Notre Da1ne looks for 5th straight
\ 
i 
\ made crucial mistakes against and Leroy Moss (5-9, 193). 
) by Vic Dorr Nebraska and they were turned The Missouri passing game has 
\ ( Missouri's Tigers will be into instant touchdowns." lacked the punch of past years (the stalking a major upset when they Nor is the concern all Murphy's. Tigers have thrown for only 381
~ 
~ enter Notre Dame Stadium "We have the same situation as a yards in their five games), but
' 
l tomorrow afternoon, but the host week ago," complained ND head Cherry does have a good target in Irish are likely to welcome their coach Ara Parseghian, "and it's tight end John Kelsey (6-6, 228).
l 
visitors with open arms. difficult for a coach to convince his Little Jack Bastable (5-11, 195) fills
\ 
l The Irish haven't been lulled by team that games are won on the the wide receiver position. \'• Missouri's 2-3 record, or by the field and not before-hand. The Pitt The Tiger defensive lineup is a Tiger's most recent loss--a 62-0 game was a perfect example of blend of much youth and little
\ 
shellacking by Nebraska-but they this, and I'm sure Missouri will be experience. Missouri plays a 5-3-3{ will be savoring their reprieve the same case." alignment, and only three of the from the practice field, where The team the Tigers will field starters, tackle Dan McDonough
t 
injuries during the past week have tomorrow has not been without its (6-1,217), end J.L. Hoak (6-2,210),
\ 
taken a heavy toll. Defensive own injury problems. Three of the and linebacker Tom Kellett (6­
\ 
tackle Steve Niehaus has been lost top four runners in Mizzou's wish­0,195) are seniors. The deep
\ 
( £or the season with a knee tear, and bone offense were injured two defense is manned by three \ l a pair of speedy offensive per-weeks ago against Oklahoma juniors, and sophomores fill the 
\ ' 
formers have been side-lined with State, and two of them are still rest of the defensive slots. shoulder maladies. doubtful for tomorrow's contest. The season has been less-than­
Wide receiver Bob Washington Fullback Ray Bybee, the team's rewarding for the Tigers and their suffered a shoulder separation and leading rusher (281 yards, 6.1 second-year coach. Three cliff­won't see action for the next average) did not play last week, hanging ball games have come 

several weeks. Running back Eriic and neither did halfback Bill side-by-side with a pair of Penick also has an injured Zeigler. But quarterback John laughers, and things don't figure to shoulder, and while he has been Cherry is healthy, and he has get much better this week. practicing in pads the past two adequate back-up runners in days, he is doubtful for Saturday's juniors Tom Reamon (5-10, 190) "Notre Dame has a very good
game with Missouri. 

team," said Onofrio. "They're
But Coach Al Onofrio's Tigers, Nie ha us 0 st bigger defensively than the teams
despite their lackluster record, 1 
we've been meeting, and they play figure to be Notre Dame's biggest for season their defense aggressively. Of­
concern of all come Saturday. 
fensively they use a lot of multiple
Missouri has beaten Oregon (24-22) The bad news about Steve formations, and have a quar­and California (34-27), and has lost Niehaus is now official. terback who reminds you a little of to Nebraska, Baylor (27-0), and Notre Dame's standout fresh­Joe Theismann. He may not be Oklahoma State 07-16). But the man defensive tackle had surgery quite as quick, but the resem­Irish coaching staff still has a Thursday for torn ligaments in his blence is there." good deal of respect for their Big-8 left knee and will be out the 
Tom Clements, the quarterbackvisitors. remainder of the season. who has so impressed Onofrio, and 
"Missouri ~as some, ve~y Niehaus injured the knee the rest of his teammates will be ca_Pable offensive peop~~· said Wednesday in practice during a trying to rebound Saturday from a obviously the key play," said 30 minutes against Pitt as we had Insh scout John Murphy, but they pass rush drill. 
"down" game against Pitt. The Parseghian, "and our kids came made in the first three games of Irish offense sputtered for nearly up with the big play several times. the season."
Jim DonaIdso n ·=========================:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 
two-and-a-half periods against the But I was disappointed with our But the Irish overcame their Panthers before Drew Mahalic's first half turnovers. We lost three mistakes against Pittsburgh and interception return broke the game fumbles, we had a kick partially went on to win impressively.
The Irish Eye 
open. blocked, we had penalties. We Tomorrow, against Missouri, they 

"Mahalic's interception was made as many mistakes in the first should be just as successful. 
.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=======================:=:Fo o tbaII picks 
Injuries, unfortunately, play a majol\ role in sports, especially in football where they occurr so frequently. In order to have a successful season, 'a football team invariably has to overcome some injuries to key personnel. 
Notre Dame's squad suffered its first major setback in the injury department this week with the loss of freshman tackle . Steve Niehaus for the remainder of the season. Although only a first year player, Niehaus had started every game this fall and had done an 
~ 1 . outstanding job. But now he's gone, and the Irish will have to replace him.lt won't be easy, but it's part of the game. 
The Irish are hurting for this weekend's game with Missouri. Besides Niehaus. wide receivers Willie Townsend and Bobby Washington and halfback Eric Penick aren't in top shape, although Penick was practicing in pads Thursday afternoon. Mizzou won't have any sympathy for the Irish however, particularly sine~ the Tigers~ i were missing star halfback Joe Moore when the teams ftrst met two years ago.
IJ Despite last week's 62-0 drubbing at the hands of Nebraska, the 
!l 
OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
Irish jayvees at Mich. St. 
BerteIIi to speak 
at Mizzou rally 
Tonight's Stepan Center pep rally will feature former Irish great Angelo Bertelli, quarterback for Coach Frank Leahy's teams in 1942-43 and was the first Irish player eve to win the Heisman Trophy, which he did in 1943. 
Bertelli will talk at the pre­Missouri pep rally at 7 pm. With him on stage will be current Irish halfback DarryII Dewan, linebacker Jim Musuraca, and Coach George Kelly. 

I l football team will play its second halfbacks, anchored the opening Irish harriers
Tigers figure to give the limping Irish a tussle, at least for awhile. The game of the season Friday in East victory with 83 and 82 yards
I J N .D.-Mizzou game is far from the top contest of this week's collegiate Lansing against Michigan State. rushing respectively. 
I ~ slate, ~ough. -meet Indiana
Kickoff time in Spartan Stadium 
I j With games like Oklahoma-Colorado, Auburn-Georgia Tech, Texas­Following Friday's game, th_e
I is 1:OOp.m. (E.S.T.). Notre Dame's cross country team
I 
Arkansas and Tennessee-Alabama, there figures to be plenty of ac­Irish face Michigan and Michigan
The Irish JV's coached by faces a stiff assignment Friday
I tion acros~ the country this weekend. And here's the way the Irish Eye State at home on October 27 and
Dennis Murphy, enter the game against Big Ten power Indiana in
I figures the action to turn out: . November 3 respectively and then 
with a 1-0 record following a 17-7 Bloomington.
I , Notre Dame over Missouri-The Irish were almost caught lookmg close the season at Tennessee on 
success at Michigan three weeks Irish finished 8th in their own
past Pitt last weekend. They won't make the same mistake tomorrow. November 11. 
ago. Michigan State is 0-3 after invitational last Friday while theWatch for the N.D. offense, which has had two "off" games of late, to 
setbacks to Michigan, Nor­The game with Michigan on Hoosiers split with Miami and
l I ? 
return to its early (and devastating) form. 
thwestern and Ohio State. October 27 will start at 12 noon on Illinois. Indiana lost to Miami 23­Air Force Academy over Navy--The Falcons can prove their claim 
~ Freshman Art Best and Cartier Field's new artificial field. 33 but trioped Illinois 17-46.
of being the best service academy football team.
~ 
Purdue over Northwestern --The Boilermakers are starting to play
~ 
~ -the way they should have all season. Ohio State over Indiana --Indiana has its best team since the
I j
I . "Cinderella squad" of '67 but the Hoosiers are no match for Woody Hayes' Buckeyes. ·
I 
' Texas over Arkansas ---Longhorn pride was hurt last Saturday when Oklahoma dealt Texas its first shutout since 1963. This weekend, ' the Razorbacks will pay the price.
i.j Boston College over Pittsburgh ---The Eagles made Air Force 
I . :cramble for a win last Saturday in Beantown. 
~ 
I l. Oklahoma over Colorado ---The Sooners are the choice in this ·onfrontation of Big Eight powers.
I 
Southern Cal over Washington ---The Huskies' bark is worse than
I 
~heir bite.

I 
;' 
Penn State over Syracuse---The Orangemen will be black and blue 
I 
} 
:,fter this bah game.

) 
Texas ChrL-:>tian over Texas A & 1Vf ---The Horned Frogs loom the favorites bu: they'd better not be caught looking ahead to next week's game with the Fighting Irish. . . . . 
Auburn over Georgia Tech ---The Tigers took It on the chm m last week's showdown with L.S.U. but they'll be back and battling against i the Yellowjackets.
I j 
j 
· Houston over Miami (Fla.) ---The Hurricanes won't get five downs J to beat Houston like they did last week versus Tulane. Michigan over Illinois ---This won't be the week the Illini win a game. 
Nebraska over Kansas ---Another Big Eight Iaugher for the C ..~rn­
J huskers. Upset of The Week: Tennessee over Alabama --The Volunteers are going "Bear hun­
) 
ting" this Saturday in Knoxville. Last weekend: 11 of 15-.733 Season's Pet. 68 of90-.756 
----~ ------------­
Notre Dame's junior varsity sophomore Ron Goodman, both 






