--------~----­
Cloudy, chance of snow. High in low 30's. Colder tonight. 


of notre dame -st. mary's
Vol. VI, No. 85 Thursday, February 24, 1972 

Campaigns ~n full swing 
,. 

Higgins: "new base for student power" by Mike Baum Pledging "a new base for student power", SBP hopeful Bob Higgins opened his campaign last night in Alumni Hall. Speaking with running· mate Ron Pogge and coalition SMC candidates Jean Seymour and Sue Welte, Higgins em-· phasized his "commitment to merger" and hall life. In a series of short talks and question-answer sessions in several halls, Higging said he saw as a distinction between "student influence", · naturally concomitant with the position of SBP or SBVP , and "student power", stemming from the active support of the student body. Higgins advocate the formation of coalitions with the SMC student government, and with the Notre Dame faculty. He said the fact that he and Pogge are running in coalition with Seymour and Welte, St. Mary's can­didates, was "proof" of their desire to 1' >. J work together on all levels with St. Mary's student government. Miss hi Seymour said theirs Higgins: "a new base for was a "necessity" to student power " work within different · structures and schools which would prevent tota1 merger of the governments, but said that they intended to merge cabinet positions. Higgins also said he would work for a "close cooperation" between student government and faculty, specifically through the two student seats on the Faculty Senate, which he termed "unused", and through the SLC. He pleged to "get back" to the students through "strategic use of the media", suggesting press conferences regularly with reporters from the Observer and WSND. Although admitting that his drive for "student power" could be hampered if student apathy prevails, Higgins offered, "I really think that apathy is on the way out. I think people are getting excited about student government this year." On the subject of hall life, Higgins said that he hoped to get some $20,000 back to the halls, twice the amount budgeted this year. Higgins bases this hope on a budgetable $9,000 available after this year from the payment of the student government debt, and the expectation that the University will continue this year's practice of matching funds one-to-one. Other subjects on which Higgins voiced ideas included: --Minority students-Higgins said he wants to increase yearly the present $3 million fund, and to urge the recruiting of minority women. He also advocates the hiring of a Spanish speaking recruitor. --Grades-Higgins supports the institution of an "Academic Grievance Council" under the Faculty Senate to hear cases involving ac­cusations of junjust grading, with power to change grades. --Hall Counseling-Higgins would like student government to encourage individual halls to set up tutorial programs, some of which already exist, and counseling services to supplement the official faculty advisors. --LaFortune Student Center-Saying , I"W~:d' like to see more of the Student Center for student· use," Higgins suggested that as administeators, the offices fo Frs. Blantz and Schilts to the ad­ministration building. He would have the Student Center opened 24 hours a day to increase its use as a social center especially for Off-Campus students.  Kezele: "Rhetoric isn't all you need" for SBP by Bob Cosetutino SBP candidate Floyd Kezele last night ad­mitted that he "may not have the rhetorical skills of, perhaps, opponent Chuck Luken. But "You don't have to be a good debater to make a good student body president," he said. Kezele, during his campaign through seven residence halls last night said he is relunctant to accept Lukens recent offer because "it wouldn't JPr~ve " Luken fiad previously challenged the other candidates to an open debate. As of. last night, Gary . Caruso was the only one who had ac­cepted. "Rhetoric isn't all you need for an administration," Kezele said. "More important, you have to establish mutual trust with the ad­ministration and the Kezele: "Rhetoric isn't all students. You have to you need for an ad-create a fo~m . of ministration." cl?se commumcabon with them." Luken had previously challenged the other candidates to an open debate. As of last night, Gary Caruso was the only one who had accepted. "Rhetoric isn't all you need for an ad­ministration," Kezele said. "More important, you have to establish mutual trust with the ad­ministration and the students. You have to create a form of close communication with them." Kezele, who is running with Assistant Student Union Director Milt Jones, called this need for a "radical change" in the social life at Notre Dame one of this year's main campaign issues. In order to achieve "closer ties" among the students, Kezele advocated getting away from formal "date society" and organize many more informal parties and dances where dates wouldn't be necessary. These, Kezele said, would be conducted at ND and St. Mary's. "Things aren't orientated to a date society here because there aren't enough girls," Kezele remarked. By informal open-air movies and concerts and Over-the -Hill dances Kezele said the social atmosphere on campus can improve drastically. He also suggested renovating the basement of the LaFortune Center. "There's many possibilities with that," said Jones, who ap­peared with Kezele in Alumni and Keenan­Stanford. "They hfive a bar down there and we could get a small band every weekend." "Nevertheless, Kezele contended that the basic social problem at Notre Dame is simply an "unbalanced ratio" between males and females. The administration, he said, desires to even­tually reach a male-female ratio of 3:1. However, "That won't be until 1984," Kezele asserted. "The way to solve this problem is to pressure the administration to admit more women sooner. We can also try to create a better recruiting system for women into ND." As far as the academic side of student life is concerned, Kezele wants to erase much of the academic discipline for academic freedom. "Education should be a humanization process where one can find the answer to 'Who am I,' " he said. Kezele also said that he plans to implement a revision and expansion of the pass-fail option if he is elected. He is also in favor of the proposed Farley Hall plan, which is a proposal to institute discussion courses for credit within the halls themselves.  Dzeidzic emphasizes "power vs. power" by Tom Bornholdt SBP candidate Paul Dziedzic last night promised a "new approach" and philosophy towards student government, that would include "power vs power" confrontation. He pledged to "Kick ass where we find fat asses". making sure to mention that, "There are as many fat asses in the student body as the Administration, maybe more. Furthermore, he expostulated a new form of student government structure that would ·center around the section leaders and replace the present Senate. Dziedzic said that there are two problems for student government. The first is the ad­ministration and its "paternalism, which he said was the result of the administrators' desire to l This problem, !Dziedzic claimed, has been recognized by almost all previous Student governments, but he contended that there is another that hasn't. This is the student body, which he felt has been "too .complacent" towards many problems, and is itself the source of Dziedzic: "power vs some problems. power" confrontation "There are no ad­-­_, ministr~tors who cheat on tests" said he in both Morrissey and Walsh. Dziedzic's solution to these problems was also· twofold. The first he termed "structures", which to him was the channel of "com­munication between equals." He promised to utilize the existing channels with the ad­ministration but he warned many times, when standing up for one's convictions, the ad­ministration -closes the lines of com­munication.At this point, he declared that the second phase of his approach w_a~ nec~ry. This phase he called "con­frontation".Dziedzic said he felt that when the . University "moves a situation into one of power,'' the student government should be prepared to respond with power, to l¥lve an "arsenal" ready. This arsenal would consist of various ways to financially damage the Administration. As examples,. he gave leaving room lights on, flushing toilets simultaneously, boycotting the bookstore and Huddle, and the Log Chapel. · Likewise he said he would-emphasize­"structure and confrontation" in dealing with the student body. H~_prop(ised a "forum which would consist of aU section leaders,SMC wing leaders and nine off-campus commissioners. According to the Omsbudsman, it would meet roughly every five weeks with the purpose only to discuss not to decide. This way, Dziedzic hoped he could "bring misgruntled students out of the section." Forum members of each hall would meet afterwards and elect an unspecified number of section leaders as members of a LegislativeAssembly. This Legislative Assembly would meet every week, taking the place of the Senate. The number of represenatives on the Legislative Assembly from each hall would be proportional to the population of the hall. Dziedzic expressed hope that this assembly would be more dynamic than the Senate since it would be accountable to the Forum.  


----~-­

Page 2 THE OBSERVER. Thursday, February 24, 1972 
Schlosser pledges social, cultural reforms 

by Ann-Therese Darin Observer Associate Editor 
Self-professed "activists" Joe Schlosser, SBP candidate, and his running-mate Lincoln Soldati pledged to revitalize the social and cultural life of the University last night in their debut before campaign audiences. 
"Social culture is a basis for the student power movement," Schlosser, an off-campus junior with no prior experience in Notre 

1500 students polled 
Mike O'Hare 

Hoping to "get back to student referendum government," SBP candidate Chuck Luken revealed last night that he is conducting a survey to determine the attitudes of Notre Dame ~tudents on campus issues. 
Luken said he planned to cir­culate the survey among 1500 students on the North Quad. Questions on the survey will deal with such subjects as co-ed dorms, placing a student on the Board of Trustees, dropping of A­and B-grades, and the ef­fectiveness of student govern­ment in representing the students. Results of the survey will be released Friday. 

Sherrod opens ccnnpaign; calls for student decisions 

by Jim McDermott 
Mike Sherrod opened his campaign for student body vice­president calling for student decision-making and respon­sibility. He spoke last night in Grace, St. Edward's, and Farley Halls. 
Sherrod, who is running with Paul Dziedzic, detailed their platform with students making their decisions on their life.styles, parietals, and the planning for future coed dorms. 
Under the plan, students would be brought into the'decisions by a new University Forum, com­posed of all hall presidents and section leaders. This body would be used to air new ideas, but will have no voting power. All legislative power will be in an assembly where the members would be selected by the halls on a proportional basis. 
"It's time that we started to accept our own responsibilities and time that we started to make our own decisions," Sherrod said. He called for an end of secrecy in planning here. 
Among other plans that Sherrod announced was a student-owned and operated store on campus. "The University is willing to make loans if it is for a good cause," he noted. 
Students must take control of their academic affairs, too, Sherrod said. He emphasized exam cheating, saying that we must "make students aware of their morality." 
The Observer is published daily during the college semester ec­cept vacations by the students of the University of Notre Dame qnd St. Mary's College. Subscriptions may be purchased tor $8 per semester from The Observer, Box 
Q,  Notre Dame,  Indiana  46556,  
Second class postage paid.  Notre  
Dame, _Ind.  46556.  


Dame student government contended. "We want to involve students in a common goal or activity on a cultural basis, so that when they're interested in changing structures on campus, they'll know each other." 
During the half-hour talk with eight Alumni residents, Schlosser endorsed hall autonomy for both men's and women's dorms and a "redefinition" of the Student Senate so that every proposal reaching the SLC from the student represenfatives could 
Dziedzic and Sherrod are basing their campaign on a theme of student power. "There is authority inherent in the student body to make their view of Notre Dame a reality, just as the trustees and administration have done," he concluded. 


Clothes..and tAinp Men's. Boutique 

"On the Mall" -McKinley Town & Country Shopping Center-Mishawaka, Indiana Phone 259­
a.'lS 

first have Senate approval. their platform. It contains 
The Schlosser-Soldati camp proposals for a food cooperative envisions the Hall President's and a tenants' union. Council as "essentially a Soldati, a two-year army research and information veteran and InPIRG organizer, committee." Although they listed several activities they plan anticipate "a paternalistic at­to stage. titude on the part of the ad­In the Huddle Friday evening, ministration toward the women they will premiere a movie on campus," they will lobby for filmed Tuesday on "spontaneous women's parietal hours equal to trucking experience" before the ITIEW'S. Chuck and Mary Perrin concert. 
The candidates, both of whom Also based in the Huddle are live off-campus included a guitar concerts, which started detailed off-campus plank in yesterday at noon. "We had no interference from the Huddle people at all," said Soldati, "when we turned off the records. If there had befn something, the 
students would have stood behind us. We had everyone at the
Luken surveying attitudes )-luddle together with what was 


going on." 
The Luken-Spak ticket also has They also plan guerilla theatre, plans to "streamline the struc-and a parade to organize at the ture of student government". LaFortune Student Center "for They advocate operating student the fun of it" Friday at 11:30 a.m. government through the offices After the Alumni speech, the of the SBP -SBVP, the Hall candidates went door-to-{ioor in Presidents Council, and an Dillon, before appearance at the 
Under this plan, the Senate and 

the SLC would be abolished and be replaced by this 11 member , body, which would pass on the budget and be in charge of ser­vices such as the Ombudsman. 
Stating that "I will not make promises that I can not keep," 
Luken  said  he  hoped  to  ac­ 
complish  his  goals  by  
"mobilizing  the  students  and  

mixing: diplomacy with pressure." He criticized the present SBP, John Barkett, "for not using enough pressure in the I parietals issue." 
In regards to placing a student on the Board of Trustees, Luken cited a pending bill before the Indiana legislature which would require that all state schools have a student on the Board of Trustees. He feels that if this legislation is approved, it would create a precedent which the students could pressure the University to follow. 
Luken salso said he advocated altering the current Pre-Med structure, which curr_~ntly require~ _/!!t _ majors to get a recommendation from the same one person. He would rather see a committee formed to give recommendations for medical school. He said that this system is used by many schools and called it "fairer" than the Notre Dame system. 
Rennovation of LaFortune Student Center is also high on Luken's list of priorities. He would use an expected ap­propriation of $250,ooO from the Trustees to improve the student center. 
Wygant Floral Co. 
Flowers for all occassions 
327 Lincoln Way 
West 232·3354 


with CONTACT LENSES 
No hassle. Slip Into the action with better vision without bother. Contact lenses help you see better, keep you looking great. Feel free to loin the action with contact lenses ... You get better "looking at 
Union. 



Only 465 delegates 



Mock Convention will need more delegates 

by Jerry Lutkus 1004 delegates and so far the total stands at 
Observer News Editor 465. 
Mock Convention Director Erie Andrus Andrus noted that many students may expressed disappointment last night at the be concerned over the amount of time number of students already signed up for necessary for the convention, but he ex­the Mock Democratic Convention to be plained that it only takes about 200 
held in April. The convention must have delegates to run the committee set-up. The 
$3 million endowment 


Minorities comment 
by Larry Dailey "This is merely one step," explained 
another MECHA member, "and the 
The leaders of two minority groups have establishment of a whole program is expressed varying opinions on Fr. necessary." Hesburgh's recent announcement of a $3 However, Forrest Whiterabbit, head of million endowment fund for un­the Native American Association stated dergraduate minority .students. that he was "impressed and relieved that 
Armando Alonzo, spokesman for the the university thought of this." undergraduate members of MECHA "We will take a wait-and-see attitude as <Chican Student Movement) explained to how much will be channeled into each that he personally wondered about the minority group, but we are glad that the adequacy of the sum. university made this commitment." 
"The endowment doesn't solve the Whiterabbit suggested that a portion of problems of the administrative set-up the fund be spent on recruitment, since. since La Raza has never had a recruiter or there are only three Indians on campus. counselor on this campus. If the Ad­"The problem in the past has been that ministration could match that endowment the financial aid package that Notre Dame with a supplementary sum for supportive normally offers to an Indian on the services -such as recruiting, admissions, reservation is normally not as good a deal counseling, and tutorial, then Notre Dame as the state schools might offer him. might be a conducive location for Chicano Perhaps this might be a change for the students." better." 




E OBSERVER. 
Thursday, February 24, 1972 

$500 needed for appearance 
Breslin talk anticipated 
ports to British ships by the Nationalby Ann Therese Darin Longshoreman's Association, the AFL­
CIO, and the National Truckers' Union. 

Five hundred more dollars in Grad Miss Askin, member of a national Student Denise Askin's pocket will bring association to aid Ulster victims, plans to novelist Jimmy Breslin to campus organize a campus chapter. She hopes to megaphoning the Ulster, Ireland educate the students through Breslin's problems, March 1. speech so that they will canvas South Bend 
Miss Askin already has $500 in her fund, urging residents to participate in the $250 pledged by the Graduate Student boycott. Union plus the same amount from Student "I would appreciate any contributions Union Academic Commission coffers. for the Breslin fund by Friday," Miss Breslin guaranteed he would speak here Askin said, "so that we could contact and donate his $1000 lecture fee to the Breslin's office to finalize the speech Ulster cause. plans. She may be reached at her room 
Breslin's anticipated speech would kick­in Lewis Hall (283-2146). off local participation in a nationwide Irish Catholic Breslin, formerly a boycott on $1,200,000,000's worth of British columnist for the New York Herald· exports, retaliation for British per­Tribune, recently authored "The Gang secutions of the Ulster Catholics. Britain's That Couldn't Shoot Straight," a biggest export is Scotch. tragicomedy portraying an attempted 
The boycott includes closing American assasination of a Mafia Don. 

world 

briefs 
!c) New York Times 
Peking--President Nixon conferred again privately yesterday with Premier Chou En-Lai of China and later attended a dazzling display to gymnastics in an indoor stadium in Peking. Early Thursday, the President began a visit of the Great Wall of China and the Moog Tombs. The summit meetings are to resume after Nixon's sightseeing trip. 

Washington--A compromise busing bill was introduced by Senate leaders in a Senate said to be seething with antibusing sentiment. The bill, offered as the minimum that Congress might accept, would prohibit busing to desegregate schools if it would risk the health of the children involved or retard their education. 
Washington--The Supreme court ruled that the apparent election victory of Sen. Vance Hartke in 1970 is subject to a recount in Indiana. The court added that the Senate would be the final arbiter in the election, in which Hartke, now a democratic presidential contender~ faced former Rep. Richard L. Roudebush. 
other 800 students serve simply as con­vention delegates. Nonetheless, he stressed that registration must be com­pleted well in advance of the convention for organizational purposes. 
If the convention does not come up with enough delegates, it would become a real . j problem. But Andrus is confident that enough students will support the con­vention. 
He stressed, though, that St. Mary's has been really slow in signing up. The National Convention is split half and half between men and women in the committee set-up. Andrus hopes to duplicate that situation, but he repeated they need girls to sign-up. 
Many of the small states have already have their state delegations filled, but the large state delegations are still wide open. Andrus explained that California, New York, Ohio, and Illinois are still open. 
Of the students who have signed up, nearly 90 percent have remained un­Mock Convention Director Eric 

Andrus

committed. Andrus explained that when students sign-up for the convention they are asked to note three states they would far about power and factional control bylike to represent. Next, they are given the organizations. Andrus made clear that 
option of committing themselves to can­"No one faction controls the small states didate or remaining open. The com­due to the fact that 90 percent of the people 
mittment is solely a student's views and is are staying uncommitted. Even a group of in no way applicable to the actual opinion 10 small states would have little control. of the state he represents. We have no problem with having a fair 
Thus far in the pre-convention work, convention." 
candidates Henry Jackson, George 
McGovern, and John Lindsay have Andrus informed the various 
emerged with the most organization. But organizations that if they required ad­
Andrus stressed that the organization vertising in The Observer for their can­
really doesn't. mean too much. The didate, they should work through the 
powerful state delegations of California Academic Commission. They should 
and New York are wide-open and if there is contact the Commission "at least two days 
to power it will be located in the big in advance so that all the organizations are 
delegations, according to Andrus. subject to the same ad discount rate as the 
There has been some controversy thus ·. Academic Commission." 

llnlike the 1964 Mock Convention shown here, the 1972 Convention is having trouble getting delegates. __ _ 
on campus today 
1:30-3:00 --meeting, matt welsh, candidate for governor of indiana, fiesta lounge, Iafortune. 
evening--sbp campaign, candidates speak in the halls. 
at notre dame -st. mary's 

THE OBSERVER 
AN INDEPENDENT STUDENT NEWSPAPER 
FA~Mo:lr-bi-Cblef, GlenS; Corso 
Assistant Editor All successful newspapers are 
Aulstant E4lk 

T.C. Treanor John Abowd 
ceaselessly querulous and bellicose. They never defend Bailleu Maaa&er anyoneor anything If they can help 
Advertising Manager Jim Jendryk It; If the lob Is forced upon them, Bill Bauerle thev tackle It by denouncing someone« something else. 
H.L. Mencken 

Business: 283-7 471 News: 283-1715 
Entpty Convention 
Eric Andrus was pretty disappointed last night, but he could still 
manage some optimism. The Mock Democratic Convention he is 
organizing is suffering from a fantastic lack of support from the student 
body. The Convention only happens once every four years and we think it 
should be vigorously supported. But the support just isn't there. Andrus 
needs a minimum of 1004 delegates to put together a well-run convention. 
As of dinner time last night, he had 465 people, less than half the 
necessary populace. That's bad--real bad. 
Furthermore, the disappointment has been heightened by an almost 
complete lack of response from St. Mary's. New National Convention 
rules dictate a 50-50 women to men ratio and it would be nice to operate 
the same way here. But, unfortunately, at the rate things are 
progressing, that's just a fond hope. 
True, the Convention isn't until early April, but for organizational 
purposes, the registration of delegates must come now. A student 
delegate's time commitment, except for those integrally involved in the 
committee and organizational positions, isn't overbearing and really isn't 
prohibitive. 

90 percent of the students who have signed-up are not committed to a 
candidate. The large and powerful delegations from California, New, 
York, Ohio, and Illinois are unfilled. The people who are elected to head 
these delegations are potentially powerful participants. Organizati_ons 
supporting Henry Jackson, John Lindsay, HubertHumphrey, and George 
McGovern have all been created. There's no question about it. 
Everything points to a tremendouslyexciting convention, something the 
students really shouldn't miss. 
It would be a true shame if a convention so wide open, and potentially 
exciting would have to be cancelled because of a shortage of delegates. 
The problem is simple-no people--and the answer is even simpler--sign­
up. 


lncontplete Comntitment 
Armando Alonzo is right--compared to efforts the administration has 
made to secure black students, Chicanos and Indians have definitely been 
slighted. Lets look at the record: 
--there are 160 blacks on campus; less than 50 Chicanos; 3 Indians. 
--there is a black guidance counselor; no Chicano; no Indian. 
--next year there will be a black recruiter; once again no Chicano; no 
Indian. 

As we said when the endowment was first announced, $3 million is no 
small effort. While the fund should be designed to grow, that is no excuse 
tJ sit back and ignore the plethora of other problems surrounding 
minority recruitment. We don't think the• Admissions or Financial aid 
offices intend to ignore the recruitment of Chicanos and Indians but the 
record is terribly unimpressive. 
It would be naive and overly simplistic to suggest that every minority 
group have a representatvie in the guidance and recruiting programs. 
But that doesn't mean that non-black minorities should be as completely 
ignored as they have been. We suggest a Chicano and an American Indian 
be made available through the Admissions office on whatever basis is 
financially feasible (i.e. part time or full time). These people could 
handle guidance and recruitment duties until a stronger base for the 
minority they represent can be established. In view of the financial 
commitment, this effort would move the total project of increasing 
nimority enrollment one more step closer to reality. 
News Editor: Jerry Lutkus

Staff: Sports Editor: Jim Donaldson
Nite Editor: Dan'l Barrett, Beth Hall Nite Controller: John Brady
Layout: Jerry Lutkus Headlines: Kathy Schw.ille, Don Sian­
Happy Birthday, Carina!
camano 

THE OBSERVER Thursday, February 24, 1972 
The New Season Begins 
Opening Night 
T .C. Treanor 

The tragic kidnapping of SJ:Sl' hopeful R. Calhoun Kersten has added a bizzare and ghastly twist to the already-muddled SBP race. The kidnapping -easily the biggest news of the campaign's first night ­occured after the commode candidate's wildly successful rally at Keenan Hall. 
At the rally, Kersten revealed that he wasn't running for SBP at all. Instead, he's making a bid to become Prime Mover. My spies at SMC 
, inform me that Kersten is already a prime mover, but ifhe were really in that post already he would have transcended time and space and caused his kidnappers not to be born, so I must reluctantly discount those reports. It's easy to see why Kersten is running (for the hell of it> but the other candidates are open to more subtle and serious analysis. My contacts say that wily Ed Motto, HPC chairman and former Sorin Hall President, really nailed SBVP candidate Milt Jones in Ed's home hall. Why would someone like Jones be willing to put himself on the griddle like that; his knowledge, intelligence, and whole self open to intense question? Why would anyone? For the 18-hour-a-day glory of being SBVP? For the office room in LaFortune? For the privilege of dealing with Administrators he neither likes nor respects for a year? There is a reason for it all; and perhaps we'll take it up on a quieter day. But all the circuses began last night, and by their gory and glorious nature they pre-empt the more somber art of amatuer psychoanalysis. 
I spent the evening playing Poobah at the Observer office, andhence was unable to make any of the candidate's opening nights. I thus rely on my professional informants, which include the bon. M. Gallagher, the bon. B. Hall, the bon. T. Bronholdt, the bon. A.T. Darin, the bon. M. Baum, the hon. J. Abell, the ho.n. B. Corsentino, the bon. D. Hopfer, the bon. J. McDermott, and many more who have all asked me to keep them nameless. All my informants are Absolutely Infallible, having received that privilege insecret but very proper ceremony somewhere behind the ACC. Thus, reading reports from them will be just like reading reports from me. 
The Joe Schlosser Show, starring Joe and Lincoln Soldati, was gaudy, but it received mixed reviews. The folk band following the candidate was a good one, but he himself must get more specific before he whoops up the rabble. As one spy said, "Mter listening to Dziedzic, Schlosser came acroos like a wet rag." But more on that later. 
One person definitely whooped up on the Schlosser candidacy is St. Mary's SBP Kathy Barlow. The Off-Campus Junior has her unqualified endorsement. 
The Gary Caruso Show, starring Gary and Bob Long, was also pretty coloful, though it operated sans the musical hoopla that marked Schlosser's campaign. He has promised to "tell the truth" about other candidates, which means that Higgins, Kezele, and Dziedzic n:trticularly are in for a roasting. He made the interesting contention that Student Government (i.e. Barkett) was linked to the Observer through the person of Ed Ellis. An intriguing observation; not without its trinitarian overtones; perhaps dubious in light of this paper's late editorial attack on the SBP. In any event, it will be absorbing to watch how he draws the contention out in the upcoming days. 
Caruso was very sharp with questioners last night. He's obviously been thinking about this race for a long time anc;l if he's going down he's going down swinging. Perhaps the best confrontation of the night was between Caruso and Farley President Joe Markosek. My infor­mant made Markosek the winner by decision, but he had to think about it for a while, and Markosek's no dummy. 
The Paul Dziedzic Show, starring Paul and Bob Long, was also a good one to watch. The Ombudsman came down hard on the ad­ministration, but more significantly, he came down hard on the Student Body too. It will be informative to see how this works; Dziedzic can turn a phrase nicely and though his audiences were sparse last night they will get better, as will everyone else's. 
Of the other candidates I have not much to report; the Bob Higgins and Floyd Kezele shows opened to mixed reviews; the Dennis Thomas and Mike Cunningham shows didn't open at all. Chuck Luken went door-to-door, so I can't say too much about that. 
That brings us to the question of a debate. Though it's ·probable that the nine-man crew of candidates will never sit together in one room and discuss the issues, it might be interesting to chose the winner from the armchair of the imagination. I have been told that Luken has won several awards as-a debater; it thus appears that his appeal for a debate was not only public-spirited but politically shrewd as well. 
In second place I would rate Caruso. He's said a lot of thing with which somebody well-informed could nail him, but he has a trained speaking voice and comes across well in public. 
Everybody else is tied for third -except the late Kersten, who 
transcends reality. Dziedzic might turn a nice phrase or two, but a nine­man debate quickly becomes a shoving match, and I'm not at all sure of Dziedzic's shoving capacity. 
But it may not be a nine-man race! Due to an error in printing, each petition had room for only ninety-nine signatures. One hundred are required to get on the ballot. Six of the nine only turned in ninety-nine. The survivors? None other than Joe Schlosser, Gary Caruso, and­Paul Dziedzic. More on this later... 
(Note: do not repeat nor take this last paragraph seriously. It's all true, but don't take it seriously anyway.) 
ATTENTION: SBP -SBVP Candidates 
The Observer will publish a special election issue on Saturday of this week. As a public service we will publish the platforms of all candidates who submit them. The maximum length is two and one half typewritten 8% x 11 pages, double spaced. All platforms must be in The Observer office by noon Friday. 

I 
I 
t 


~ 
Thursday, February 24, 1972 THE· OBSERVER. ~age 5 
I 
Caruso releases results of investigations I 


( 

by Joseph Abell 
"We want to get across the point that we are doing things now," Gary Caruso said last night in Morrissey as he kicked off his campaign with talks in that hall, Grace Hall, Alumni Hall, and Farley Hall. 
To support his statement, Caruso offered four releases detailing investigations made by Caruso's staff into various ar-eas of student life, and a proposed challenge to the University. 
The first of the four releases dealt with the recent controversy over proposed refrigerator fines. Caruso conducted a survey to dicover the situation of electrical appliances in the halls. This was followed by an interview with Brother Kiernan Ryan on hall wiring. The results of his survey and interview were included in the release, along with the promise of a Caruso proposal on 

Pogge talks about infor~nation, po-wer 
by Don Hopfer 
Citing poor information as the true cause of a lack of student power, Ron Pogge, candidate for Student Body Vice-President, opened his campaign last night in a speaking tour that included 
Morrisey,  Alumni,  Walsh  and  
Parley halls.  
Pogge,  who  is running  with  

SBP candidate Bob Higgins, promised that the Higgins ad­ministration would be on~ which would deal "tactfully but for­cefully" with the officials of the University while backing up their 
~~~~~~~-ls with massive student 
The candidate spoke about the difference between power and influence, and their effect on accomplishing goals. ·"Winning the election will bring influence but that's only half of it. In order to get the power to get things done, one must get the student support, and the only way to get that is through keeping the students informed." 
Pogge, part of the coalition Higgins-Seymour ticket, en­visioned a "well-informed" student body which would dictate what issues the student govern­ment would pursue. The SG could then "stress to the Ad­ministration the fact that we have the student support and we want things done." 
Feb. 24 Feb.25 Feb. 26 Feb. 27 Feb. 28 Feb. 29 
. 
March 1 
March 2 

VOLUNTEERS NEEDED 
FOR WORK WITH THE 
BOY SCOUTS OF AMERICA 

IN THE SOUTH BEND AREA 
If interested contact 
Charlie Lucy at 272-3352, -after 5 pm. 
co-ex tix 
Holy Cross & Lyons Howard & Keenan Alumni & Zahm Badin & Walsh Breen Phillips & Stanford Cavanaugh & Sorin 
. 

Grace & St. Ed's Pangborn & Farley 
the fines to be forthcoming. 
The second release described another Caruso interview, with Mr. Plouff of the ACC and the possibility of a new Student Union contract. 
Finally, Caruso talked to Brother Moran at the Bookstore in relation to Bookstore prices on textbooks and special items. In his release, he described his elicitation from Brother Moran of a promise to justify any price in the Bookstore to any student. 
Caruso's fourth release en­tailed a proposal to challenge the Univeristy's stand on parietals, utilizing a recent action of the Alumni Hall rector as a basis for the challenge. That rector, said Caruso, declared that a room in Alumni could have opne parietals so that it could be used as a campaign headquarters. Caruso pointed out the possibility of using this action to force the University to declare all public 
-
l 
, , . 
Pogge: need for "massive student support" 
In speaking of the Barkett Administration, Pogge thought that Riggin's methods will differ greatly from Barkett's in dealing with the Trustees and the Ad­ministration. He said that Barkett's methods were established on a friendly basis. "We will be dealing with them on a professional basis." 
In a question session at Walsh Hall, the SBVP candidate countered a parietals question by claiming that ND women should be allowed to determine their own parietals next year, regardless of what the University decrees. 
places as subject to open parietals. 
Turnouts in the four halls were sparse, most totalling less than ten. The only exception to this was Alumni Hall, where over 25 residents showed up. 
"We're here to find out what you guys want," VP candidate Bob Long emphasized. "If you have any gripes, let us know and we'll have an answer for you." 
Long added that any questions brought up in last night's discussions would be answered in full in tonight's talks. 
"Just give us one day, and we'll have an answer for you wherever we're talking," he said. 
Caruso also complained in his talks about the lack of initiative shown by his opponents. 
"This (indicating platform sheets of other candidates) is the same old stuff we've had for the last three years," he commented. "I've had it with nice little philosophies and I want to see some ·action." 
He criticized the present ad­ministration, saying that 

Notre Dame -St. Mary's Theatre presents 



Judas Christ 
A NEW PLAY BY MICHAEL REHAK Feb. 18, 19, ·24, 25, 26 8:30 pm Washington HaH 
Tickets $2, $1.50 for ND-SMC Staff, Faculty, Students 
Reservations at 2 -414 1 nd 




Alumni 
(Senior Bar) 
FRIDAY: Oldies Night w'ith Dance Contest. Prizes for Winners 
SATURDAY_: Live Music 
Introducing 
"Ox Peddle" 1·0 pm-1 am 
Starts Tomorrow 

I.D. Required 

"nothing got accomplished this year--everybody was just very busy." 
In Farley, Caruso issued a challenge to all other candidates to a campus-wide debate. "I want the campus to see who is capable of expressing himself the best, first to the students, and then to the administration." 
Long affirmed their stand on student government merger by promising an immediate merger after the elction. "The student governments of Notre Dame and St. Mary's will be merged in intent as soon as we're elected," he said. 
Caruso and Loag described themselves as "unique" in all their talks with regards to campaign procedures. "We're the only candidates to take the initiative to check things out before we're elected," Caruso said. "We intend to get some things done, whether we win or not." 
Gary Caruso: "We are doing things now." 
Caruso's schedule for tonight will include talks in Holy Cross Hall at 8:00, Howard Hall at 9:30, and Sorin Hall at 11:00. 




Citroen
' ' 

sed Specials Of T eek 
70 FIAT 124 SPORTS COUPE ~harp --An excellent buy 71 850 FIAT RACER Like new, real savings 69 124 SPORTS COUPE ­A choice of 2 68 VOLVO Real Sharp 70 OLDSMOBILE Power Steering & Brake.s, Automatic NEW 124 SPORTS COUPES 6 to choose from 

auto/'=
-·· 
52148 u.s. 31 '~ 
South lend ' 

,._212·21M 






Pa 6 
•





Rogers, Mack lD 
by Marlene Zloza 
Advocating a "service-oriented 
student government" and the 
intiation of a stay-hall policy, St. 
Mary's candidates Maureen 
Rogers and Mary Claude Mack 
began their campaign Wed­
nesday night in Regina North 
Hall. 
In question-and-answer sessions on each floor, Miss Rogers expressed some doubts about the feasability of a merger between the two student governments. According to the sophomore class president, "as long as we have two distinct 

administrations to deal with, we must have two separate but cooperative student government structures. A merger would be useless now and SMC would take at least a financial loss." 
Both candidates contended that since the merger postponement has beep the major issue this year, acadmic standing and degree programs will be of great . 
Fitzpatrick opens ca~npaign; tours Augusta, Holy and Cross 
by Beth Hall 

SBP candidate Eileen Fitz­patrick in floor-to-floor question­and-answer session in Augusta and Holy Cross Halls last night said that "self-determination" and "broadening of students' interest" will highlight her platform during the next week. 
Miss Fitzpatrick said the need of each student to "search out life styles" and "determine a philosophy of her own" but contended that this is impossible in the present environment at St. mary's. She contends that "Education must be carried out in every facet of life on campus." 
Mary Orr, Miss Fitzpatrick's running mate, said she saw a need for "more student voice" in the St. Mary's affairs. "Tools are needed for action. Students are needed on policy making com­mittees as well as investigative committees." 
Placement Bureau posts summer job information 
Placement Bureau Director Richard Willemin has posted 
information  important  to  
students  in  Business  and  
Engineering  who  cannot  find  

employment for the summer. The Bethlehem Steel Corporation and Jewel Company both have announced programs for summer employment. 
Bethlehem is interested in students majoring in Mechanical Engineering, Metallurgical Engineering, Electrical Engineering,-Industrial 
Among the areas where sub­stantial student power is lacking, according to Miss Fitz­patrick, are the decisions of the Board of Trustees and the Academic Commission, hall life issues, and tenure committees. 
The Academic Committees, disbanded becuase of the merger proceedings, must be reactivated with increased student par­ticipation, she said. She also contended that the power to override the president's veto should lie with the Student Life Council rather than the board of Trustees. 
Miss Fitzpatrick said she strongly favors merger with Notre Dame but viewed chances for it "doubtful", If the merger is not completed, she pledges to search out all possibilities of "making SMC a first rate college." She called creation of an "experimental college", St. Mary's coeducation and the importance in '72-73. "A forceful, dedicated academic com­missioner will be a must if we are to have any influence on major academic decisions and plans," Rogers said. 
Vice-Presidential candidate Mary Mack argued for the ticket's stay-hall plan, an idea which provoked the most 
questioning  from~  Regina  
residents.  Miss  Mack  termed  
"increased  community  spirit,"  

"equal representation of the classes in each hall," "greater continuity of hall governments" and a "better home at­mosphere," the plan's "major advantages." 
"We want to make hall life at least tolerable," Mack said, "and we hope that halls would become a united force on campus for rule changes and living im­provements." 
Rogers said that the basement facilities at Regina, which in­clude.~ bowling alley and a la~ge 
Engineering and Chemical Engineering. They should not receive a degree prior to June, 1973. 
All students majoring in Business Administration will be considered as possible employees of Jewel Company. 
Willemin stressed that students should sign up immediately for interviews with these companies for summer employment. Sign­ups are at Room 207, Placement Bureau, Administration Building. 
THE OBSERVER 


Regina 
auditorium, might "be put to use" in turning the Regina basement into a recreational center. She also promoted a plan to equip the kitchens with cooking utensils. 
To be implemented in '72-73, the stay-hall policy would employ a hall lottery for those students who wish to stay and a campus­wide lottery for transfers. Quotas would keep class representation · equal in each hall and freshmen would be placed in each hall. Rogers added that problems "unique to Regina" might be solved by considering each side 
separately. 
"With less of a turnover, each 
hall would develop a stronger hall 
council," Mack said, "and this 
would involve more students in 
the government and give 
residents a better chance to know 
hall officers." 
Rogers advocated individual 
hall parietal policies 
development of a "flexible academic program" "possible alternatives." 
Fitzpatrick siad she was "very concerned" about the effect on students should the merger fall through. "Every effort must be made to provide students with 'expanded curriculum and wider variety of majors," she said. 
"To limit the co-ex program is absurd," she contended. "We should not go bake on every area of cooperation." She asserted that the students should continue lo cooperate, especially in student government. 
Miss Fitzpatrick said that she views student government in both "representative and leadership" capacities. She pledged to communicate through a bimonthly newsletter. She would also appoint an Ombudsman to provide a source of information for students who are unaware of the adminsitrative structures and unable to investigate issues themselves. 
Miss Fitzpatrick said she saw a need for expanded services for students, including drug coun­seling on the SMC campus, a birth control center, and ex­panded infirmary facilities. 
Fitzpatrick concluded that SMC must develop a "total en­vironment" of a heterogeneous nature. She contended that a recruitment of racial, ethnic, and economic minorities would develop such an environment. She also advocated "moving the social orientation" from Notre Dame to St. Mary's. She also suggested bringing speakers 
from Women's Liberation, Gay f Lib., and both rightist and leftist groups to "extend the specturm of views." 

Cultural Arts Commission's Performing Arts Series presents 


Clair's Knee 
Thursday, February 24, 1972 

Kersten kidnapped 
by Jim Roe 

In the presence of ap­proximately 40 spectators, R. Calhoun Kersten, SBP contender, was abducted last night from the third floor water closet in Keenan Hall. 
Three unidentified students snatched Kersten as he was concluding his address to a group of Keenan supporters. Kersten who was seized without a struggle, was dragged out of the hall despite chase given by his campaign manager, H-man. Un-Candidate, the Cat Kersten's running mate, eluded capture by 
' quickly banicading himself in the second stall of the third floor ·john. Un-Can(fidate's ~kesman.. · Ed Gray, siad that "he would 

''LONG HAIR'' 
Strictly Caranaby St. The British Shag is The new limey shag here. If you have long (LONG HAIR) is the· hair Continental's bloody sensation, as Artists can trim it for a desired, for the young 
bloody true Shag, as HARE SET with kitties desired, with or without only kitties. 

u·ealthy hai.r is our. business~ 
HAIR STYLING, LtD.~ 
SERVING THE N.D. COMMUNITY FOR OVER 4YEARS 
Call 259-7679 for APPOINTMENT 
1321, K McKinley Ave., Mish. (next door to Normain Pharmacy) (Special Student Rates Every Day) 

tolerate no pusillanimous 
pussyfooting in obtaining the 
release of Kersten." 
When contacted later at the Kersten campaign headquarters, H-Man said that since Kersten is in contention for the Notre Dame SBP "I suspect that it was a cheap ploy to garner votes. Any candidate who would stoop to such tactics deserves to win. For these reasons I did not call security." 
H-Man also reported receiving a ransom note demanding 27 cents , which he said "is the exact sum in our campail!n treasury." 
Kersten said that if elected he would change the office of Student Body President to that of "Prime Mover, in keeping with my humble nature." 
directed by Eric Rohmer 
Fri. & Sat. ·Feb. 25 & 26 8&1 0 pm 
Engineering Auditorium 
Admission. $1.00 PAS Patrons Free 
---------~--­
Thursday, February 24, 1972 THE OBSERVER Page 7 

Frosh stars spark ND trackmen 

by Eric Kinkopf Hockey coach "Lefty" Smith scours the frostbitten plains of Canada looking for ice talent, while "the Digger" and Ara confine themselves to the con­tinental United States when searching for hoop and gridiron potential. 
But it seems as though track coach Alex Wilson has a much better recruiting plan, one that saves on travel expenses as well as road time. 
Track Coach Alex Wilson confines himself to his office. 
At least it seems that way, since this year two of the track team's standout performers, freshmen Greg Cortina and Eric Penick, are officially listed on the University budget as recipients of football scholar­ships. 
Coach Wilson contacted Greg and Eric when they visited the Notre Dame campus in the fall of 1970, and came up with a bargain, at no expense. 
During the fall, Greg and Eric were listed on Coach Denny Murphy's freshmen football roster as linebacker-defensive end and halfback respectively. But with the end of the gridiron campaign, the duo shucked those tags and came up with new monickers. 
Now it's shot-putter Greg Cortina and sprin! specialist Eric Penick, much to the delight of Wilson. 
The 6-1, 255 pound Cortina has already established a new Notre Dame record in the shot with a toss of 60'10" last week, and the 6­1, 195 pound speedster Penick continues to flirt with the ND mark in the 60 yard dash of 6.1 seconds, by turning in consistent 6.2's in that evmtt. 
Both Eric and Greg consider football to be their main sport, but also thrive on the individual aspect of the track and field competition. 

"Football has the money end to it," Eric said, "and there's nothing like that crowd reaction when you break a long one, but track gives me a chance to show off my individual potential. If you win, it's your gain, and if you lose, it's your fault. I love the contact in football, but I enjoy the personal competition track af­fords. I like to beat people, and I like to win. Losing embarrasses me. I get that kind of head to head competition in track." 
Greg echoes Eric's sentiments. 
"It's that individual com­petition that I enjoy in track. In head to head competition you can't say that one guy is better than another like in football or basketball because he can pass or dribble better. In track you're measured by a tape, or the clock. You push yourself to the limit you want to. And you don't have to depend on a team for victory." 
Both men came to Notre Dame with impressive football credentials. Greg was an All­American linebacker choice in high school, while Eric earned All-State honors in Ohio at his halfback spot. 
And you can add to Penick's accomplishments a spectacular performance at the Ohio State Track Tourament in his senior year at Gilmour Academy. 
The only representative from his school, Eric walked off with, or rather dashed off, with blue ribbons in the 100, 220 and 440 yard dashes. 
And for Eric, the switch from the stadium grass to the tartan surface of the Convo hasn't proved too difficult. 
"For football, the leg muscles 


OBSERVER 
SPORTS 
have to be extremely tight, but for track they have to be loose and easy. Other than that there's not much of a difference as far as conditioning goes. We do a lot of sprinting getting in shape for football, so it's been pretty easy to get in shape for track." 
Greg considers himself to be a self-made man as far as shot­putting goes. 
"Being a shotputter isn't like being a runner. A fast sprinter is 
J:>orn with speed, but you really 
have to work at being a good shot-· 
putter." 
And Greg's daily routine belies that philisophy of hard work. 
The muscular shot-putter lifts weights (300 pound press, 350 bench, 130 pouQd dumbells for each arm) on Sunday, Tuesday and Thursday, and throws and runs (70 ~&r ~>m:.ints) 2._n Mon­day, -Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. Friday is his day of rest. 
Both frosh phenoms have Olympic aspirations for the 1972 games in Munich. 
"I think I have a pretty good shot of making the squad". Eric 

Stickmen prep for tough schedule 
by Andy Scantlebury For the past several weeks, within the protective confines of the A.C.C., coach Rich O'Leary has worked the Notre Dame lacrosse team in preparation for their March 26th opener against the Los Angeles Lacrosse Club in Westchester, California. The Irish face the toughest schedule in their history, and it will be difficult to improve upon their 6-4 spring record of last season. The Irish play eight of their 11 games on the road, including the first four on the west coast against the tough L.A., U.C.L.A., Temple City and the Orange County Lacrosse clubs. Never­theless, the Irish are optimistic. As O'Leary mentioned yester­day' "There's no question about the difficulty of our schedule. But we do have a great many players returning and this will be helpful. Being back for a second year will make my job a lot easier." To become a successful team, Notre Dame must fill the gaps left by goalie Jerry Kammer, crease defenseman George Carberry, and attackman Ken Lund. Juniors Paul Simmons and Jim Rollar fought for the 
goaltending job last fall, and the position is still up for grabs. Joe Lepley, a sophomore, is in the background, but he has looked sharp in practice and this puts pressure on both Simmons and Roller -Despite the talents of all three, Krammer's absence will be felt. 
Tim Baker has the task of filling Carberry's crease defenseman spot. Carberry has a great year last spring, being voted All Mid West, third team. Baker, a senior, is a seasoned performer at the wing defensive spot, but he will have to become polished at the difficult crease position. Junior defenseman Bill Foley is back for his third year, as is grad. student Fred Morrison, expected to be the spark of the defense this year. 
Coach O'Leary has not yet decided on any specific mid field lines, but the middies were surprisingly successful this fall. Junior Dave Jurusik, an All-Mid West selection, is back, along with his speedy linemates, Capt. Gary Riopko, a senior, and Rich Mullins, a junior. 
Jim Brown, Jim Lepley, and Jim Bingle worked well together last fall and all three displayed scoring potential. Bingle had an exceptional fall and showed signs of becoming a legitimate scoring threat. Veteran Paul Reagan will most likely anchor the third middie line, but the two outside positions are still up for grabs. Both John Corcoran and Bob Cullen have looked good and they could see action on this line. 
On attack, the Irish have plenty of scoring punch. Capt. Eddie Hoban is the· key on the first attack unit, but he will have to remain healthy if the Irish are to fly. Joe Anderson looks as though he'll get the nod to start at the crease attack position and the hustling junior will no doubt get his share of the "loose ball" goals. B.J. Bingle has eyes on a high scoring year and nothing would please O'Leary more than to have Bingle reach his potential this spring. 
Even with the tough schedule and unanswered questions, the stickmen have no qualms about the upcoming season--to be the best you have to play the best, and the Irish will have their chance against the top Lacrosse clubs in the country. 

said. "If I go, I guess I'd compete in the 220. 1 ran a 20.6 in high . school, and I figure I'd have to get it down to about 20.3 or 20.2 to qualify. Marshall Dill (Michigan State sprinter) qualified for the Pan Am games with a 20.3 so I think I have a chance. The biggest thing though, is con­sistency at that time. 
"There are millions of ways to qualify" Greg said."They usually invite the top six in the NCAA's and the top three in the AAU's to the Olympic tryouts. The Track and Field News recently listed the top· ten shot putters in the country with the best chances for Olympic berths. The tenth place man had a 60'4" listed as his best throw, so I figure I broke into the top ten in the country with my last throw of 60'10" 
"I consider Cortina to be the best shot putter in the Midwest," Coach Wilson said, "and one of the top five or six in the Collegiate ranks." 
It won't be very long though until both Cortina and Penick will be back in the pads and helmets working out with the Irish football team. And Eric is definitely shooting for a starting spot next year in the Irish back­field. 
"I'd have to do much better, in order to win a starting spot than I did last fall though," Eric said. "I have to work on my blocking and receiving. At Gilmour all I had to ­do was run with the ball. Up here you have to block and catch as well." 
But coach Alex Wilson isn't looking that far ahead yet. He's just enjoying the kid's respite from the blocking dummies and tackling drills. 
But there is one thing that bothers Eric about track at Notre Dame. 
"The people up here just don't seem to follow track. I came from an area <Cleveland) where everyone seemed to be aware of track competition. We have a really good squad here but it seems funny to me that people don't support a winner." 
But perhaps if coach Wilson contim.1es to "find" such exciting performers as Greg and Eric that whole attitude will change. 
If it does, you can credit it to fellas like Cortina and Penick, who combine strength and speed with an intense desire to excel. 
Voices from the crowd 
John Egart's knee is certainly average player whose only not as celebrated as that of Willis ambition on the court is to win? Reed's. However, medically they Isn't there a mythical bond at share the same malady. Did the Notre Dame which unites the 
N.Y. Knicks fans boo Reed's entire student body, or are these appearances last season and corny bonds reserved for the bellow mocking cheers at his widely diffused, and disparate departure? Much to the con-crowds which witness the N.Y. 
'trary, zealous N.D. fans, Reed Knicks games. 
was placed in highest esteem by The University has been pat­
the entire Garden as a symbol or ting itself on the back for the past 
savior of the three most several days for the 85 percent 
cherished ingredients on any support of the InPIRG petition. 
team -sacrifice, dedication and Everyone supposedly is so 
spirit. humanitarian that they are going 
Two knee specialists informed to seize the world and cleanse it 
John and his coaches that the of pollution,' fraud and 
malaise he had developed may discrimination. If one of their 
lead to permanent knee damage. programs falters or tails, or 
Whatever John's motives, he pollution, fraud and 
chose to play out his senior year. discrimination. If one of their 
I'm sure he'll never forget the programs falters or fails, or 
appreciation you displayed at the maybe just gets too boring, will 
Fordham game. they quit and indulge in a more 
Have we allowed ourselves to glamorous and successful one? equate excellence with applause On the basis of the Fordham and support? Do any boosters game, I would be inclined to think exist out there for the players so. who don't shoot like Austin Carr or rebound like Mel Davis? Terry McGann Are there no cheers left for the 204 Walsh 
Irish vs. Wolverines Don't just be a fan-be a Fanatic! 
Fri. -Sec. 7 


Sat. -Sec. 6 
Tickets on sale at Gate 10, A CC 
Page 8 THE OBSERVER Thursday, February 24, 1972 
Jones stresses "power in unity" in Zahm 
by Art Quinn 

SBVP candidate Milton Jones told a crowd of 20 students in Zah­m Hall last night the "The power of the students is in unity." He contended that "the Student Government in the past has operated on an 'I to You'concept. We feel that the 'We' concept is the only way to consider having a student government." 
He added, "The power of the Student Government is the power of the students it works with." Jones went on to argue that the 'We' concept has "diplomacy, power, and confrontation." 
Jones, who is rurming with Student Life Council Vice­Chairman said that, "Students have to stand up and do things for themselves because if we wait for the administration, we will wait longer than we can. Students should stand behirid the issues and press for proper settlement of the issue." 
He contended that the programs he and Kezele put in will not work unless the students want it. According to Jones students feel there is nothing we can do, but there is something we can do." He cited as an example theSLCmeeting last fall when 600 students attended in the Engineering Auditorium. 
Jones said that it -was his running mate, Kezele who released the information con­cerning the parietals, sanctions two days before the SLC met, thus "uniting the students," Jones contended that it is this type of informed student body" which stands united and can accomplish its goals. 



Seyntourand Welte launch bid 
by Maria Gallagher 

Jean Seymour and Sue Welte launched their bid for SMC's top student government positions last night with a floor to floor campaign in Augusta Hall. 
Speaking to audiences ranging from 10 to 25 persons, the can­didates outlined their stand on merger, academic reforms, hall life, and parietals. 
Miss Seymour said that the pair decided to run on a coalition ticket with Notre Dame hopefuls Bob Higgins and Ron Pogge, because "We have adopted the same platform; we hold the same ideas and ways to implement them. 
"We are mutually endorsing each other; it is our way of af­firming our committment to merger. We can't let com­munication break down," she said. 
Seymour added that their plans are ·~prepared" and they are ready·-tooegin work im­mediately. "If the entire ticket is elected, things will move much faster." 
Miss Welte said that the student govenrment union would 
O'Conner feels "none of above" best selection 
by Noli Kane 

Terry O'Conner believes voting for "none of the above" in the coming SBP elections is the "lesser of a dozen evils." 
That is why he has started a "vote for . none of the above" movement, but so far he has received "really bad response." 
O'Connor started the movement to "show my disgust with this big bureaucracy idea." He charged the government with "insufficient contact with the students," "bureaucracy," and what he called "ineptness .. (they are> not able to put anything together." 
The movement follows closely a bill passed in the student senate two weeks ago which states that if 51 percent of the student body checks "none of the above," are­election is held. If, in the re­election another majority selects "none", the senate will hold an emergency meeting to decide what to do. 
But O'Connor says that he doesn't expect to "wipe out the ticket." His aim is "to force the issue" and to show that they students "want action." 
O'Conner could not think of anyone on or off the ballot he would vote for. When asked if he would run, he replied no. 
He said, "It's hard to find support; only about four kids are working with me. I put an ad in the paper and got a really bad response." He attributed the lack of support to student 1pathy. 
begin with a merger of executive cabinets. She said there was a need for cooperation between the NO student Senate and the SMC Assembly. However, she said, no concrete plans have yet been laid since "much res'ts upon just who is elected and how the merger fares." 
In the area of academics, Miss Seymour, who is currently SMC Academic Commissioner, presented several proposals, including a complete revision of the pass-fail system. 
"We'd like to make it possible for a student to take as many as eight pass-fail courses over a four-year period, and also suggest letting students take major courses pass-fail." Other goals included the institution of an optional study program for credit between semesters, and the placing of a student on the rank and tenure committee. 
Parietals headed the list of priorities in the hall life area. "One of the first things we will do," pledged Miss Seymour, "will be to explore the possibility of 24 hour open lobbies." 
Welte proposed the aboliton of sign~~ts altogether, or replacing them with a modified system. 
Seymour expressed the hope that an agreement could be reached on hall autonomy in determination of hours. 
Seymour also advocated the establishment of hall life funds similar to those at Notre Dame. 
"A surplus of student govern­ment money crops up each year which just sits there," Seymour explained. "If a hall fund is set up, halls can come to the Assembly at the beginning of the year and petition for allotments from tbis ex~ess." 
Miss Seymour said that pen­ding results ·of the renewed merger negotiations, the presidential search committee has remained inactive. But, she added emphatically, "We will not settle for a Holy Cross nun. We'r~ tired of behind-closed-doors politics; it can+t happen again and we won't let it happen again." 
Miss Seymour also vowed that the pair, if elected, would insist on a full-time gynecologist for both St. Mary's and Notre Dame. Birth control information and counseling would be available through this outlet. 


BEST BANDS IN TOWN 
• I

-Two Bands a mght -Dancing 6 nights a week 
(closed Monday.) -No cover on Tues., Wed., Thurs. -Open till 2 a.m. 
"One stop entertainment center" Cocktail Lounge Bowling Billiards 
.::J/;.J«'• J'\tlte C/u~ 
2802 SOUTH 11th ROAD NILES, MICHIGAN 49120 
616/683-4350 


SUNDAY 
8:00P.M. 
Ticket Prices: 
Bltldlers ••• $3.00 Lowtr Ar111. $6.50 Lo&e, •1111 .•.$7.50 Mlin Floor 
•d Plllfor•s$7.50 


MARCH 5th 
IN PERSON 
ANDY 
WILLIAMS 


HENRY 

MANCINI 
TICkets 01 sale It NOTRE DAME A. C. C. Ilion.· Sat. 8-5 St. Joe Bank and Branches First Bank lllllilllfice•IIIJ Robertson's Elkhart Truth 

Jones asserted that the social Other plans include open-air life at Notre Dame has to be concerts and renovation of the La improved. He contended the Fortune basement. He stated "We" concept can be that La Fortune "should be applied to social life. He available to the students at all 
advocated having social events times." On Friday and Saturday on bothSMC and ND campuses in nights, La Fortune could be order to develop an "open­turned into a place with a night minded feeling" concerning club atmosphere for the students, social life between SMC and NO. Jones suggested. 


;-CLASSIFIED ADS 
WANTED 

POETRY WANTED for An­thology. Include stamped envelope. Idlewild Press, 1807 
E. Olympic Boulevard, Los 

Angles, California 90u~ 1. -
Garage to rent near campus. Call 8797. 
Need ride to Northern Ill. U. Feb. 25. Call 4383. 
SMC girl needs ride to Cincinnati Fri. Feb. 25th. Please call 4081. 
-

Desparately need a ride to Cleveland on Feb. 25th. Call Mary Beth 4828. 
Need ride to Birmingham, Mich. Fri., Feb. 25. Pat 8422. 
Wanted: Two SMC girls to share fantastic four bedroom house next year. Mike or Jack 233·3920. 
-

Lead or rhythm guitarist seeking 
· rock band.  Call  Ken 8648.  
- ------ 
Desparately  need  ride  to  

Cleveland this weekend. Marc 6746. 

-
TWO GIRLS NEED RIDE TO DETROIT THIS WEEKEND. CALL MAUREEN 4784or SUE 4810.. 
Ride needed to Philadelphia or vicinity anytime soon. Call 4124. 
THREE HOUSEMATES NEEDED--NEXT YEAR·· FOR INFO. CALL STEVE 6733. 
FOR SALE 

Gibson Electric; 100 watt Kustom Amp. New Cond. 232-6338. 
Parts and Accessories for lm­ported cars. Foreign Car Parts Co. 215 Dixieway North (Roseland I 272-7187. 
Quality S-track tapes only $3. Call 6715. -------ROBERTS 770 X Tape Recorder: Cross Field heads, sound on sound, sound with sound, 4 speeds. Call 3729. 
Michelin X Tires 165-380-15" with tubes. For all VW Bugs; most 15" sports and imports. Best offer 255-6726. 
Nearly new Roberts 1720 reel to reel stereo "tape recorder. Originally $200 now $135. Call Bob 3151 after midnight. -
GREAT CAMARA BUY . Canon Canone! QL25: 35mm. rangefinder focus, f2.5 lens, auto or manual operation, Canon "quickload" mechanism, like new, just factory reconditioned, with case, on I y$55. Will explain! Call 283-8180. 
For Sale ; 2 $6.50 tix to Mancini· 
Williams concert.  Call Dennis  
1049.  
..  

'63 Impala--Good condition. 
$200.00. Call 233·7323 after 5:30 
PM. 
FOR RENT 

Have three four bedroom houses nvailable for June or Sep­tPmber. Call 234 9364. 
Words 1da 2da 3da 4da 5da 1·10 .65 •95 1.15 1.35 1.55 11·15 1.00 1.50 1.85 2.10 2.40 16-20 1.30 1.95 2.15 2.55 2.95 21·25 1.70 2.55 3.20 3.85 4.45 26·30 2.10 3.15 3.95 4.75 5.45 31·35 2.45 3.65 4.45 4.75 6.15 36·40 2.80 4.20 5.25 6.75 7.75 41-45 3.15 4.70 5.90 7.10 8.20 46·50 3.55 5.20 6.50 7.80 8. 95 
' 
PERSONALS 

There was a misprint in an ad in the Observer on Tuesday. It should have read like this: 
!'!EWARE THE FEMALE ROUTINER. She lures innocent young men into breaking parietals. 
. --­
midland miss: I'm ready if you are--see you tonite. 
-GVS -Gaboon Viper Society Gaboon equals spitoon Gaboon viper equals a spitoon 
wiper. Ja! 
---r -­
Dear Mysterious Caller, Tile next time you call, please don't hang up. 5755 
To: Gary L., Mike MeG., Patty 
K., Jane A., and Ter.Bean !?I Thanks. Mike 
-·-· 
LOST AND FOUND 

Lost (Stolen! I Brown wallet containing money & 
I.D. if found please contact Jim Willard, 8056. -
Reward: For return or in­formation of brown leather trenchcoat taken from Regina Hall Sat. 2-19. Call Thorn 1150. 
-

Found: Ladies Gold Times, outside O'Shag. Call 5220 after midnight. 
--· 

Lost: Brown corduroy jacket with torn shoulder in first floor library. Call 1611 or 1613. 
-· 

Lost: Wallet with 1D's. You can keep the money. Return to 223 Walsh 6875. 
NOTICES 

DISCOUNT TRAVEL. To and Within Europe. Leave anytime from NY -Chicago. Flight Center 227 North Randall, Madison, WI 53706. 
-

ATTENTION PRE-LAW STUDENTS!!! LSAT REVIEW COURSE NOW ACCEPTING STUDENTS FOR APRIL (AND OTHER LSAT TESTS.) FOR IN­FORMATION CONTACT: KELLY FLYNN, 232-8236. 
Need typing done??? Will do typing for reasonable rates and on short notice .. don't waste time pecking away. Call Chip 8256. 
Skiers! 5 places remaining for Easter Jackson Hole Trip. $99 Lodging & Tix -Call 6875. 
Time for a fresh approach. Luken--Spak for SBP·SBVP. 
-

NEW 7th 9th GRADE CLASSICAL-CHRISTIAN SCHOOL NEEDS ENGLISH, LATIN, MATH AND 
SCIENCE TEACHERS. Since salaries will be small the first year, we're looking for graduate students (preferably with Masters) to work part. lime while at Notre Dame. Send rita, references etc. to Magdalen School, P.O. Box 1225, South Bend 46624. 
-

Going to Chicago? Take the Greyhound from the Circle. call: Tom Boyer, 6984, for in· formation. 
Pressure with diplomacy Luken Spnk tor SBP SBVP 
AVERT­
EYES/Ill 









